..^... 







IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



I.I 



11.25 



ItiMTA 12.5 
■^ i2ii 12.2 

Li. ^ 

iiiim 

1.4 Hill 1.6 



m ^ 






'^ 





w 



Riotographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



33 west MAIN STREET 

WSaSTIR.N.Y. M580 

(716) 173-4303 




CIHM/ICMH 

Microfiche 

Series. 



CIHM/ICMH 
Collection de 
microfiches. 




Caradian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut Canadian de microreproductions historiques 





Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



Tht 
toi 



The Institute has attempted to obtain the best 
original copy available for filming). Features of this 
copy which may be bibliographically unique, 
which may alter any of the images in the 
reproduction, or which may significantly change 
the usual method of filming, are checked below. 



D 



Coloured covers/ 
Couverture de couleur 



I I Covers damaged/ 



Couverture endommagde 

Covers restored and/or laminated/ 
Couverture restaur6e et/ou pelliculde 

Cover title missing/ 

Le titre de couverture manque 

Coloured maps/ 

Cartes gdographiques en couleur 

Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black)/ 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 



I I Coloured plates and/or illustrations/ 



D 




□ 



D 



Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 



Bound with other material/ 
Relid avec d'autres documents 



Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion 
along interior margin/ 

La re liure snrr6e peut causer de I'ombre ou de la 
distortion le long de la marge int6rieure 

Blank leaver added during restoration may 
appear within the text. Whenever possible, these 
have been omitted from filming/ 
II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajoutdes 
lors d'une restauration apparaissent dans le texte, 
mais, lorsque cela 6tait possible, ces pages n'ont 
pas 6t6 film6es. 

Additional comments:/ 
Commentaires suppl^mentaires; 



L'Institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire 
qu'il lui a 6t6 possible de se procurer. Les details 
de cet exemplai/e qui sont peut-dtre uniques du 
point de vue bibliographique, qui peuvent modifier 
une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une 
modification dans la mdthode normale de filmage 
sont indiqu6s ci-desscus. 



r~~| Coloured pages/ 



Pages de couleur 

Pages damaged/ 
Pages endommagdes 

Pages restored and/o( 

Pages restaurdes et/ou pelliculdes 

Pages discoloured, stained or foxei 
Pages ddcolordes, tachetdes ou piqudes 

Pages detached/ 
Pages ddtachdes 

Showthrough/ 
Transparence 

Quality of prir 

Quality indgale de I'impression 

Includes supplementary materii 
Comprend du matdriel suppldmentaire 

Only edition available/ 
Seule Edition disponible 



I I Pages damaged/ 

I I Pages restored and/or laminated/ 

r~p^ Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/ 

I I Pages detached/ 

I I Showthrough/ 

r~^ Quality of print varies/ 

I I Includes supplementary material/ 

I I Only edition available/ 



n 



Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata 
slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to 
ensure the best possible image/ 
Les pages totalement ou partiellement 
obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure, 
etc., ont 6t6 film^es i nouveau de fapon d 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 



Th< 
poi 
of 1 
filn 



Ori 
be( 
the 
sioi 
oth 
firs 
sioi 
or i 



Th« 
sha 
TIN 
whi 

Mai 
diff 
enti 
beg 
righ 
reqi 
mat 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/ 

Ce document est filmd au taux de reduction indiqud ci-dessous. 

10X 14X 18X 22X 



/ 



12X 



16X 



20X 



26X 



30X 



24X 



28X 



32X 



lils 

lu 

difier 

ine 

age 



The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Thomas Fisher Rare Bo^^k Library, 
University of Toronto Library 

The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



L'exemplaire film6 fut reproduit grdce d la 
ginirositd de: 

Thomas Fisher Rare Book Libra/y. 
University of Toronto Library 

Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nettetd de l'exemplaire filmi, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du cot .rat de 
filmage. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprim6e sont film6s en commencant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
derniAre page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, salon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
originaux sont film6s en commenpant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol -^^ (meaning "CON- 
TINUED "), or the symbol y (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 



Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microfiche selon le 
cas: le symbols — ^- signifie "A SUIVRE ", le 
symbols V signifie "FIN". 



Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent dtre 
film6s d des taux de reduction diff^rents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour dtre 
reproduit en un seul clich6, il est filmd d partir 
de Tangle sup^rieur gauche, de gauche d droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



ata 



ilure. 



: 



2X 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



^^vt^-^pHI'lood for ifreunSSmT":::- 
T« «*• muor of The Globe: 
^Here »r« five piriescTiirtlonB which have 
^*90f!f9d efficacious in j;L . ^ » latism : » 

8od»l sailcyU li/a drachms. ^^ 

Or^i(0 «yrup> 2 onucaa. 
. Pure water, iioances. 
-PMe, tebipooixf ul every four hoiuB. 

BoAtA BaUeyl, 1 drachm. 
iiQUa pleual, 7. drachm. 
Glyceriae, 1 drachm. 
• £lislr colocua. 1 drachm. . 
Sose, tettapooii|al everr four hours. 

One-gtil alcohoL 

One beef's lealL 

One Ktli spirits of tarpeatine. 
> OaeKittsw««#m 

Four ounces camphor gum. 

Put In bottle and shake -well. Use two or 
three times a day. 

' <D«se, teaspooDfnl. Bub some on the afQictod 
yarts before the fire. 

Sweet oil. 2 ounces. 
Oalepot. 1 ounce. 
' litis nwlces a good rhenmatio olL 



I 



▲dd sallcyllo. 2 draohms. 
' 8Dd» bicarb, 8 draohras. 
gjrmp of lemon, > ounce, 
water sufflcinnt for 4 ounces. 
Sose, teaspoonf ul in water every three hoars. * 

A ffood IhiDK for tjie patient is to eat 

celery, cut into bits, iioile i in water until 

faoft, and the water druck by the patient. 

The root and sialic can be boiled together. 

Danvers. o. a. w. 



'*• • —- ^,.. 



▼•■' 



THE 



lARTIZANS' GUIDE 



AKD 



EyERyBODY'S ASS/STAl\/r: 



I 



OONTAININQ OVBB 



i THREE THOUSAHU NEW AND VALUABLE 



RECEIPTS AND TABLES 



EU iJLMOST KVKUV BKANCH OP nuSINKSS OONNEOTBD WITH CIVILIZED 
LIVE, ViiOit TUU UOnSUBOLD TO THB StANtTFACTORT. 



By R. MOORE. 



PRICE IN CLOTII BinDINO) $2. 



Parties in the United States will please address oniers to JOHH LOVELI. & 
Sons, Roaee's Point, N. Y. 

Those in Canada will addresethc Publisher, JOHN LOVELL, St. Nicholaa St., 
Montreal 

PRINTED BY JOHN LOVELL, ST. NICHOLAS STEEET. 



1874. 



,,-«*'^ 



^ 



^"■'^ 



^0BRA^^ 



ifii ?;■ 



•A .<•< 



■"^^fl^JVry OF TO-.?*j.^- 




E F A C E 



The following work will bo found to embrace an 
Immense amount of the most valuable information 
regarding almost every branch of useful industry. 
The information has been collected from many sources 
with much care and expense, many of the items being 
valuable trade secrets, conso;|uontly obtainable only 
at a heavy cost. On the whole, "The Artizan's 
Guide" will bo found to embrace a vast amount of 
most useful knowledge in connection with business 
and manufacturing requirements, as well as the no 
less indispensable department of domestic uses, much 
of this information being very difficult to obtain in 
books. The Appendix, embracing the subject of cor- 
respondences, &c., is now inserted for the first time, 
and if favourably received will be inserted in future 
editions. Many persons who are in proper states fori 
receiving these truths remain in total ignorance oi 
their existence, and have no means of knowing them 
except through some such effort as this. These ex- 
planations are now appended for the benefit of alU 
such, certainly not for my own personal emolument, 
except so far as happiness may be derived from tho 
consciousness of having tried to benefit others, and 
this, beyond uU doubt, is an exceeding great reward. 
March 1873, 



{Entercsd according to Act of Parliamont, in tho year One ThoiiHandl 
Eight Hundred and Seventy two, by K. Moorb, in tlie oflico of the] 
Minister of Agriculturo nnd StntiHticH ofMio Dominion of Canada.] 



INDEX. 



)race an 



For Baking, Cooking, Preserves, Jellies, &c. . . 3-19 

For Dyers, Bleachers, Furriers, Hatters, and 
Clothiers 19-31 

For Druggists, Dentists, Family Medicines, 
Barbers, Perfumers, Fancy Soaps, &c 40-64 

For Grocers, Confectioners, Domestic Wines, 
Sealed Goods, Syrups, Cordials, Ice Creams, 
Beer, &c 64-96 

For Tanners, Curriers, Furriers, Boot, Shoo 
and Harnessmakers, Marble and Ivory- 
workers, Bookbinders, Anglers, Trappers. 
&c 96-106 

For Painters, Yarnishers, Cabinet-makers, 
Gilders, Bronzers, Piano and Organ man- 
ufacturers. Glass Stainers, China Decora- 
tors, Potters, Polishers, Wood Stainers, 
Glass Makers, Architects, &c 106-140 

For Watchmakers, Jewellers, Gilders, Color- 
ers, Befiners, Gold Beaters, Gold and Silver- 
smiths, Burnishers, Diamond cutters, &c. 140-167 

For Machinists, Master Mechanics,Engineers, 
Blacksmiths, Edge tool. Carriage and Wag- 
gon makers. Mill owners, Iron and Brass- 
Founders and Finishers, Locomotive Build- 
ers, Hardware Dealers, Metal Smelters, 
Iron, Steel, Anchor, Tube, Spring, Saw, 
File, Chain, Anvil^ Sewing Machine, Firc- 
m'oof Safe, Iron Railing, Gas Fixture, and 



2 

Firo-Arm manufacturers, Bronzors, Lock- 
smithSj Cutlers, Millers, 8uwyer8, Coppcr- 
emitlis, Gasfitters, Steainlittens, PluruberB, 
Tinmen, Die Sinkers, Steel, Copjter-plato 
and Wood Lngravers, Stencil cutters, Gold 
and Silversmiths, Sweepsmeltcrs, Enam- 
ellers, Japanners, liubber work. Gas Com- 
panies, Boiler Makers, Suj^-ar Eefiners, 
Starch Miinutacturers, Petroleum and Oil 
Dealers, Na\igator3, ]5utton. Needle and 

Pen Manufacturers, Miners, &c., &c 107-280 

Items for Daily Eomembrance....o 281-284 

Eeady Eeckoner, Interest, Produce, Lumber, 
Coal, Cordwood, Bark, Moulders', Pattern 
and Model makers Tables, Weights of Iron, 
Steel, Brass, Copper, Lead, Eussia Iron, 
Lead Pipe, Strength of Cast Iron Columns, 
&c., at sight, embracing 22 pages following 

Page..,.r...... 284 

On Correspondeucos, &c., Soo Appendix. 



-i 



VALUABLE RECEIPTS. 



BAKING AND COOKING DEPARTMENT. 



Baking Bread. — The quantities and best manner of mixing the 
ditFtront iugredientd necessary to make good bread, viz., to make 
the fermentation, sav, for 10 bucketd of Hour; take 5 ^<h. of 
potatoes well boiled and mashed in a tub, with 1 bucket of 
water (in sununer this water should be about milk-warm, in 
wintrr niucli warmer ; in all cases this must be governed by the 
woiither;, six ]iouiids of Hour and live quarts of yeast ; stir tho 
10*7— 2S0 ^ «liole up well, and cover till it rises. It is bi'tter to work tho 
o4 B ^''^"'^ *^^ soon as it does rise and commences falling again; 
281—284 iHoiluTwise the brrad will not be so good. The time of rising, 
however, varies mucli ; sometimes it will rise in eight hours, at 
oiJKT times it will take much louger. Again, to nuxke the sponge; 
take 2i buckets of the above ferment, and 2^ buckets of water, 
milk-warm, run the whole through a sieve into a trough, and 
make it into light do igh, with flour for sponge. Wlien this 
spoiiffe has risen and commenced falling, add 5 lbs. salt and 5 
buckets of water; break the sponge well in the water, and stir 
up suUieient flour lo make a stiff dough, cover it up until it 
liscH siiHicieuily ; it is then fit for being weighed off and put 
^juto tliM tins for baking Let it stand in the tins until it rises, 
28-i [h whi't' it should be placed in the oveu. 

NB.— A \ oz. carbonate of magnesia added to the flour, for 
» 4 lb. loaf, m iterially improves the quality of the bread even 
when uiadj from the very worst new seconds flour. It is usual 
Willi bilkers to add alum to the Hour, in order to make a white, 
light, iiud porous bread. Two ounces of alum per 100 lbs. ffouc 
is generally sufficient. 

Hop Yea.st. — Boil 5 gals, water and 10 ozs. hops together 
from 10 to 16 miuutes •, put 6 lbs. flour in a tub, to which add 
a.'» much oi' the boiling liquor as will be necessary to make a 
thick paste. When the remainder of the liquor is perfectly cool, 
add it, together witli 1 gal of stock yeast, to the paste, when 
the whole will be ready for use. 

Mai/p Yeast.— Boil 10 ozs hops in 5 gals, of water from 10 to 

15 minutes, pour the same into a tub When cooled to .0® 

P'ahr add i ]ieck of malt ; stir the whole up well, and cover 

t till nearly cool • then add 3 qts. of old yeast to make it fer- 

ncnt. 

ANOTm?:u E.xckllent i'Juead — Knead 21 lbs. flour with 9 lbs. of 
pau'd and mashed potatoes, from which tlie water has been well 
teamed oft' jirevioua tomasliiug; mix togetiier while the pota- 
toes are warm, adding nbout 3 or 4 spoonfuls of salt. Then 
aild about 3 (jts. milk-warm water, with 'J large spoonfuls of 
yeast, gradually to the potatoes and flour; knead and work it 



- ■:^^':-:l!rv»t. 'K)-iii~« 



BAKING AND COOKINO RECKIPI'B, 



I' 



well irto a emonth dongh, and let it stand 4 hours before pat- 
tins into tlio ovfii. 

IIkaltiiy ^'ixKn T^non.— Boil 3 lbs. of n>o to a soft pulp in 
watiT ; pail" iiiMl covk by il.Min <; 11)3. of your b"st ytotatocs, 
mash your jxitatooH, iukI' rub tlii'Ui .p with rice pulp ; add to 
tho whole 1I)S. Hour; make all into a douf^h with water, fer- 
ment with yeast, let it stand a proper length of time, aud then 
place it in the oven to bake. 

^JUA.TED IJUEAD, WITHOUT YeAST. — 1. DlSSolvC 1 02!. of SCSqui- 

carbonate of ammonia in water, suflicient to make 7 lbs. of Hour 
into a dough, which must be formed into loaves, and baked 
immediately. 2. Divide 3 lbs. flour into two portions : mix up 
the first with water, holding in solution 2 ok. bicarbonate of 
8oda; then mix the second portion of Hour with water, to which 1 
oz. of muriatic acid has been added ; knead each mass of the 
dough thoroughly. When this is done, mix both portions to- 
gether as rapidly and perfectly as possible, form the mass into 
foaves, and bake immediately. This bread contains no yeast, 
and is very wholesome. 

Note. — Bicarbonate of soda and muriatic acid, when chemically 
combined, form common salt. 

SuPEBTOR Bread from Buckwheat Meal.— To 2 qts. of sifted 
buckwheat meal, add hot water enough to wet the same ; when 
sufficiently cooled, add 1 teaspoonful or more of salt, half a pint of 
yeast, and half a teaspoonful of molasses ; then add wheat flour 
enough to make it into loaves (it should be kneaded well) ; ani 
when risen light, bake or steam it three or more hours. If thiq 
should get Bour while rising, add a teaspoonful of sugar and f . 
little saleratus, dissolved in water. For bread from Indian meal 
proceed in the same way, using it insteo,d of the buckwheat meal. 

CoRN-MsAii Bread No. 1. — Take 2 qts. of corn meal, with about 
A pint of (thin) bread sponge, and water enough to wet it ; mix in 
about half a pint of wheat flour, and a tablespoonful of salt; let 
it rise, and then knead well the second time; bake IJ hours. 

Corn-Meal Bread No. 2. — Mix 2 qts. of new corn meal with 
three pints of warm water ; add 1 tablespoonful of salt, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and 1 large tablespoonful of hop yeast ; let it 
stand in a warm place five hours to rise ; then add 1 \ teacupfulr. 
of wheat flour, and half a pint of warm water. Let it rise again 
IJ hours, then pour it into a pan well greased with sweet lard, 
and let it rise a few minutes. Then bake, in a moderately hot 
oven, 1 hour and 30 minutes. 

Corn-Meal Bread No. 3. — Take 2 qts. of white corn-meal, I 
tablespoonful of lard, 1 pint of hot water ; mix the lard in water ; 
stir it well that it may get heated thoroughly, and add one-halt 
pint of cold water. When the mixture is cool enough, add two 
well -beaten eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of home-made yeast. 
Bake 1 hour in a moderately heated oven. If for breakfast, make 
over night. 

London Bakers' Bread.— To make a half-peck loaf, take f lbs. of 
well-boiled, mealy potatoes ; mash them through a fine colander 
or coarse sieve; add ^ pt. of yeast, or f oz. German dried yeast, 



BAKING AND COOKING REOEIPTfl. 



>f sesqui- 
8, oftiour 
nd baked 

: mix up 
oonnto of 
,0 which 1 
ass of the 
rtions to- 
mass into 

no yeast, 

chemically 

3, of sifted 
Line; when 
,lf a pint of 
vheat flour 
well) ; anl 
rs. If thi? 
agar and [• 
[ndian meal 
vheat meal. 

with about 
it it ; mix in 
of salt; let 
hours. 

meal with 
lalt, 2 table- 
yeast ; let it 
\ teacupfulf 
it rise again ^ 
i sweet lard, j 
iderately hot 

corn-meal, 1 
,rd in water ; 
add one-halt 
ugh, add two 
-made yeast, 
jakfast, make \ 

take I lbs. of ' 
fine colander 
3 dried yeast, 



and I pt. lukewarm water (88° Fahr.), together with J lb. of flour, 
to render the mixture the consistence of tiiin batt'jr ; this mixture 
is to bo set aside to ferment; if set in u warm place, it will rise in 
less tliiin two hours, when it resembles yeast except in color. The 
sponge so made is then to bo mixed with 1 pt. of water nearly 
blood warm, viz., 92*^ Fahr., and poured into a half peck of flour, 
which has previously had li oz. salt mixed into it ; the whole 
should then be kneaded into dough, and allowed to rise in a warm 
place for 2 hours, when it should be kneaded into loaves, and 
baked. 

French Bread.— Take nice rice, I lb. ; tie it up in a thick linen 
bag, giving enough room for it to swell ; boil from three to four 
hours till it becomes a perfect paste ; mix while warm with 7 lbs. 
flour; adding the usual quantities of yeast, salt, and water. 
Allow the dough to work a i)roper time near the fire, then divide 
iHto loaves, dust them in, and knead vigorously. Tliis quantitj 
will make 13 lbs. 7 oz. of very nutritious bread. 

Paris Baker's White Bread.— On 80 lbs. of the dough left from 
the previous day's baking, as much luke-warm water is poured as 
will make 320 lbs. flour into a rather thin dough. As soon as this 
has risen, SO lbs. are taken out, and reserved in a warm place for 
next day's baking. One pound of drt/ yeast dissolved in warm 
water is then added to the remaining portion, and the whole lightly 
kneaded. As soon as it is sufficiently " risen," it is then made 
into loaves, and shortly afterwards baked, the loaves being placed 
In the oven without touching each other, so that they may be 
* crusted" all round. 

Brown Bread. — Take equal quantities of Indian meal and rye 
flour, scald the meal, and when lukewarm add the flour, adding 
one-half pint of good yeast to four quarts of the mixture, a table- 
spoon, even full, of salt, and half a cup of molasses, kneading the 
mixture well. This kind of bread should be softer than wheat 
flour bread. All the water added after scalding the meal should 
be lukewarm. When it has risen well, put it to bake in a brick 
oven or stove, the former should be hotter than for flour bread ; 
if a stove oven, it should be steamed I'wo hours then baked one 
hour or more ; when done it is a dark brown. The best article 
for baking this kind of bread is brown earthenware — say pans 
oight or ten inches in height, and diameter about the same ; grease 
or butter the pans ; put in the mixture ; then dip your hand in cold 
water and smooth the loaf; after this slash the loaf both wajra 
with a knife, quite deep. Some let it rise a little before they put it 
to bake. Many people prefer this bread made of one-third rye 
flour instead of one half. When it is difficult to get rye, wheat 
flour will answer as a substitute. It adds very much to the rich- 
T^etis and flavor of this kind of bread to let it remain in the oven 
over night. 

Ginokhrhead. — Mix together 3| lbs. of flour ; I lb. butter; 1 lb. 
sugar ; 1 pint molasses ; i lb. ginger, and some ground orange- 
peel. 

Dyspepsia Bread. — The following receipt for making bread haa 
Droved highly salutary to persons afflicted with dyspepsia, viz : — 
I quarts unbolted wheat meal ; 1 quart soft water, warm but not 



IS 



BAKIN(» ANP COOKING HKCETI'TB. 



hot ; 1 gill of l^csh yoast ; 1 gill molasses, or not, as may suit the 
taste ; 1 tojwpoonful of sixicrntus. 

IiuLK3 TO UK onsKuvEi) IN Cakr-siakino. — 1, In Tnakinfj civkt's, 1186 
refined •white sugar, iiltliiiuj,^!! fUuii bfiiwn sagir docd ;u wi;U. 2. 
Use gooil sweet buUer in every cii, t". 3. Uiiko mixture cannot be 
beaten too much. 4. An earthen b.isiu is tiic best for beatiuj^ cako 
iQixturc, or eggs in. 5. A good regular beat must In- kei>t up in tho 
oven. G. Use a broom sj)lint to run through the thickest part of tho 
cake ; if done, it will come out clean, if not done, there will be some 
of the dough sticking to it, This rule applies to bread also. Tho 
following cakes will bo found to como out all right with a fair 
trial. 

SuPEUiOR Indian Cake.— Take 2 cups of Indian mesil. 1 table- 
spoonful of molasses, 2 cups milk, a little salt, a hantlful of flour, 
and a little saleratus ; mix thin, and pour "t into a buttered buke- 
pan, and bake half an hour. 

Nut Cakes. — Take 1 lb. flour, i lb. butter, same of sugar, five 
eggs, and spice to your taste. 

yEED Cake. — 1 tea-cup butter. 2 cups sugar, rubbed into 4 cups 
flour ; mix with milk hard euougu to roll : i teaspoouful saleratus j 
seeds to your Uxstc. 

Buckwheat Cake. — Make a batter of buckwheat flour as you 
would for pan-cakes ; let it rise light. Then to each quart of ths 
\)atter add 1 cup of molasses, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoouful of saleratus, » 
few caraway seeds, and 1 teacupful wheat flour; stir well together. 
pour into a greased breadpan, and bake in a moderate hot oven | 
of an hour. 

Almond Cakb. — Take one pound of almonds, blanched and 
beaten ; ten eggs, well beaten ; three-quarters of a pound of sugar. 
and three-quarters of a pound of flour, well mixed and baked. 

Wedding Cakk — Take three lbs. flour, three lbs. butter, tlirc(» 
lbs. sugar, two dozen eggs, four lbs, raisins, six lbs, of currants, 
two lbs. citron, one ounce mace, one ounce cinnamc ), one ounci» 
nutmeg, half-ounce cloves, half-pint brandy. Beat the batter witli 
vour hand to cream ; then beat the sugar into the butter ; add th* 
froth of the yolks of the eggs, after being well beaten, then thd 
froth of the whites, mix fruit, spico and flour together, then adil 
them in, baking five or six hours for a large loaf. 

Pound Cake. — One pound of flour, ore pound of sugar, on« 
pound of butter, eight eggs, three spoonfuls rose-water, mace, or 
other spice. ' 

Buckwheat Short Cake. — Take 3 or 4 cupa nice sour milk, 1 
teaspoouful of soda saleratus dissolved in the milk ; if the milk 
is very sour, you must use saleratus in proportion with a littJ 
salt; mix up a dough with buckwheat flour thicker than you 
"Would mix the same for griddle cakes, say quite stifT; put into « 
buttered tin, and put directly into the stove oven, and biike about 
30 minutes, or as you would a short-cake from common flour. 

Shout Cake. — 5 lbs. flour, & oz, butter, I lbs. sugar, 8 eggs, rose- 
water and nutmeg. 

SuGAK Cakb.— Take 7 eggs, and boat the whites and yolks sepa 
rately : then beat well together; now put into them sifted whito 
sugar, 1 lb. ; witli melted butter, J lo. ; add a small teaspoonful of 



.:aKINO and COOKINO RECEIPTS. 



suit the 

ki's, use 

VL-ll. 2. 

imiot be 

\\\r ciiko 

pill tlio 

:-t ol' tbo 

bf some 

^o. The 

ith a lair 

1 tftble- 

of flour, 

-eil biikc- 

ig!xr, five 

to 4 cups 
lulenitus \ 

ir as you 
!irt of tlis 
Icnitus, a 
toj^ctlior. 
lot oven ^ 

cliod and 
I of sugar, 
liked. 

itter, tlired 
currants, 
one ouncij 
latter witli 
r ; add tin 
I, then th(» 
, tLei^ add 

sugar, on* 
r, mace, ov 

^ur milk, 1 
f the milk 
th a litt) 
than you 
put into li 
)iike about 
flour, 
eggs, rose- 

'olks sopa 
iftcd wliito 
5p(M)nful of 



i)nlverizf>d cnrhonnto of ammonia. Stir in just sufficient sifted 
lllo'ir to !i11mw (if itH boint; rolled out, anci cut into cakes. 

(Ii.NCKii (Jakk. — Flour 3 lbs., s\\<j;nv and liutter, each 1 lb., ginger 
|2 oz., uiobitjses 1 pint, cream i pt. and a little nutmeg; mix warm 
ind biiko in .slack oven. 
I'/.tM Cakk." Flour 1 lb., butter 1 lb., sugar J lb., currants i lb., 
ei^g3, I pint milk, carbonate of soda, a small tcaspoonful. 
U]cu Sopv Oakk. — 1 pound of pulverized loaf-.sugnr mixed with 
|5 lb. of pwcet butter, the beaten whites of l-i egg-s, and two tea- 
Ippdonfiils of cream of tartjir, sifted with a pound of fli)ur, and 
i ;tly, a tt'aspoonful of soda (lissolved in half a teacu|)ful of sweet 
jnilk, and strained. I{ake iinmed'atidy. 

])Ki;iCATE Tka Cake. The vvhited of 3 eggs beaten to a froth, 
\l cup of ])ulveriz;ed white sugar, 5 cup of .sweet milk, one tear- 
spoonful of cream of tiirtar, i teaspoonful of soda, 2j cups of 
t\om; a tcaspoonful of almonds, I cup of meltfd butter. 
Sthawiiekuv fSiioKT Cakic. — (hie tt'iicupful of sour milk (not 
'ittennillr), a ])iece of butter ttie ?5ize of a walnnt, i tenspoonful 
3f .'-oda, '; te!T«!U)()nful of salt. Mix very lightly, and bake in a 
niick oven. While bakincr, take ]^, pts. of strawberries, maabod 
nie witli the baud ; wiieii tlie cake is cooked enough, cut in two, 
jt)(kiiig olF about J, leaving ^ at the bo'tom ; spread each part 
Itliickly with batter, tiion i»ut on the large [)ortion a layer of sugar, 
Itiien the berries, then sugar, and hiritly, turn the other part over. 
Berve iinniediately. 

SinsdR (\(rr'-.--Sift 1 lb. of tlotir and 1 lb. of loaf sugar; take 
the juice of 1 lemon, beat 10 eggs very liglit, mix them well with 
Llie sugar, then add the lemon and Hour ; if baked in a pan, tvw) 
;liour3 is jieoessarv. 

LoAk' Cakr.— 'fake 2 lbs. of flour, ^ lb. of suf^rixr, { lb. of butter, 
pggs, 1 gill of milk, 5 teacui>ful of sweet yoast, cJoves and nut- 
leg for sjiice. 

CiiEAsr Cake. — 1 teacup cream, 2 teacups sugar, three well 
X'aten egg.«?, teaspoonful saleratiis dissolvea in a wine glass of 
Tiilk, i)iece of butter lialf the size of an egg, flour to make as thick 
IS {lound cake, add raisins and spice to taste ; wine and brandy if 
,fou like. 

Corn Staiich Cake. — ] lb. of sugnr, 4 oz. of but'er, 5 eggs, 1 
teasMoonfi;! cream of tartar, I teaspoonful soda j pound ot corn 
^tarch, I a gill of sweet milk. 

Raimload Cake — A i)iut of flour 1 t-^aspoonful of cream of 
tartar, J a tcasjioonful of soda, a tablespoonful of butter, a tea- 
BI)oont'ul of sugar ; bake the batter in a square pan twenty minutes. 
Mountain Cake. — 1 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, half cup butter, half 
:up of milk or water, 2 cups of flour, tcaspoonful of cream of tartar, 
^lalf a tcaspoonful of soda nutmeg. 

Poor Man's Cake. — 1 cup of sugar. ^ cut) of butter, 1 cup sour 
?ro.in), 1 egg, flour enough to make a good natter, ^ a tcaspoonful 
?f ?.!loratu3. 

Vium Uakb.— U lbs. sugar, 1| lbs. flour, ^ lb. butter, C, pgga, a 
lint of sweet milk" 2 tea spoonfuls sab- ratus, 1 glass of wine, 1 of 
[irandy, aod as much fruit and spico as you can afford and no 
iore. 



8 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS, 






Scotch Short Bread.— Flour 2 pounds, butter 1 pound, brown 
BUgar i pound, blanched almonds, cut small, \ pouml, candied 
Jemon i)eel, \ pourd ; bfat the butter to a cream, and add it to the 
iiour and sugar ■with the other ingredients. When well kneaded 
and incorporated roll it out into cakes about one inch thick. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Gold Cake. — Yolks of 1 doz. eggs ; flour, 5 cups; white sugar, 
and butter, of each, one cup; cream or sweet milk, 1 cup ; crt-am 
of tartar, 1 teaspoon; soda, ^ teaspoon. Beat the eggs with the 
sugar ; have the butter softened by the fire, then stir it in ; put the 
soda and cream of tartar into the cream or milk, stirring up and 
mixing all together; then sift and stir in the flour. 

Wonders. — 2 pounds flour^ i pound butter, i ounce sugar, 10 
eggs, cinnamon. 

CooKiKS. — 3 pounds flour, 5 pound butter, } pound sugar, 3 eggs; 
or, without eggs, wet up, raise with saleratus and sour milk. 

Common. — 12 pounds flour, 3 pounds butter, 3 pounds sugar, 2 
quarts milk, yeast, si)ice to taste. 

Loaf. — 9 quarts flour, 3 pounds butter, 4 pounds sugar, 1 gallon 
inilk, Avine 1 pint, yeast 1 j)mt. 

CiDEii Cake. — Flour, G cups; sugar, 3 cups; buttor, 1 cup; 
cider, 1 cup; salenit\i!!<, 1 tea.spooii ; -toggs; 1 grated luitmcg. Heat | 
the eggs, sugar, and butter together, and stir in tlie Hour and 
nutmeg? ; dissolve the saleratus in tlie elder, and stir into the mass, 
and bake immediately in a quick oven. 

Molasses Cake. — Molasses, i^ cujjs; suleratu.?, 1 teaspoon; sour I 
milk, 2 cups ; 2 eggs; butter, lard, or jiork gravy, what you would 
take upon a spoon; if you use lard, add a little salt. Mi.x all by 
beating a minute or two with a spoon ; dissolving the saleratus inj 
the milk; then stir in flour to give it the consistency of sol't cake 
and pu- directly into a hot oven, being careful not to dry by ov<.r 
baking. 

Rock Cakes.— Mix together 1 lb. of flour; J lb. of sugar; i iR 
of butter ; i lb. of curr.tnts or clierrios, and 4 egg.s, leaving ou| 
the whites ot 2 : a little wine and candied lemon-peel are a grciii 
improvement. 

Jumbles. — Take lib. of loaf-sugar, pounded fine; IJ lb. of flour; 
^ lb. of butter ; 4 eggs, beaten light, and a little rose-water and 
spice; mix them well, and roll them in sugar. 

Cup Cakes.— Mix together 5 cips of flour; 3 cups of sugxir; I 
cup of butter ; 1 cup of milk ; 3 eggs well beaten ; 1 wine-glass of 
wine; lof brandy, and a little cinnamon. 

<^^?MBAL8. — 2 lbs. flour, 8 oz. butter, i lb. sugar, G eggs, rose- 
water and a little spice. 

Frosting, oh Icing, for Cakes.— The whites of 8 eggs, beat to 
a perfect froth and still"; i)ulverized white sugar, 2 lbs.; starch, 
1 tablespoon; pulverized gum arable, J oz. ; juice of 1 lemon; 
sift the starch, sugar and gum arable into the beaten egg, and stir 
all thoioughly, when the cake is cold lay on the frosting to suit, ' 

Jumbi.es. — Butter lib., sugar 1 lli., flour 2 lbs., 3 eggs, i cup of| 
Bour milk ; 1 teaspoonful of soda, roll in wliite coffee sugar.j 
This will make a large hatch. 

DouoHNUTB.— Sugar and milk, 2 cups of each ; saleratus, 1 tett-| 



I 



V 



BAKING AND COOKING BECEIPTS. 



6 eggs, ro3e-| 



ileratus, 1 tca-l 



spoonful ; 3 eggs, and a piece of butter half as large as a email 

hen's egg, and llour sufficient. 

Crullers.— Sugar and melted butter, 6 tablespoonfula of each; 
G cggG. and flour to roll. 

Buns. — 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, i cup of yeast, J pint of milk j 
make it stiff with flour ; add, if you like, nutmeg. 

CocoANUT Drops. — 1 lb. grated cocoanut, i lb. white sugar, the 
white of 6 eggs, cut to a stifi" froth. You must have enough whites 
of egg to wet the whole mixture. Drop on buttered plates, in pieces 
the size of an egg. 

FuRNCH Rolls. — 1 ounce of butter, 1 lb. of flour, I gill of home- 
made yeast, 1 egg, milk enough to make a dough. Rub the butter 
through the flour, beat the egg and stir in, tlien add the yeast, milk, 
and a UUle salt. Knead the dough ; when it is light, mould it out 
inlo larg3 biscuits, and bake them on tins. 

Muffins. — A quart of milk, 2 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of yeast, 2 lbs. of 
flovj, a Imnp of butter size of an egg — which is to be melted in the 
milk — anJ a little salt ; the milk is to be warmed, ."nd the ingredients 
added. Let it rise, and then turn the mixture into buftered pans, 
and bake to a Sight brown. 

Bath Cakkh. — Mix well together, 1 lb. flour, § lb. butter, 5 eggs, 
and a cupful of yeast, set the wliole before the tire to rise : after it 
rises, add i lb. white sugar, and 1 ouncQ carraway seeds well mixed 
in, and roll the paste into little cakes, bake them on tins. 

No. I CuACKBKS. — Butter, 1 cup ; salt, 1 teaspoon ; flour, 2 qts. 
Rub thoroughly together with the hand, and wet up with water ; 
beat well, and beat in flour to make quite brittle and hard ; then 
pinch offjjieces, and roll out each cracker by itself. 

SuQAii Cbackkrs. — Flour, 4 lbs. ; loaf sugar and butter, of each 
i lb. ; water, 1^ ])ts. ; make as above. 

Naples Biscuit. — Wliite sugar, eggs, and flour, of each 4 lbs. 

Lemon Biscuit. — Take 3^ l])s. white sugar, 4 lbs. flour, J 
ounce saleratus, i lb. suet, a little milk to wet the dough, cut 
them out about the size, of marbles, put them on pans a little 
greased, and bake them in a hot oven and flavor them with essence 
of lerjon. 

Abernethy Biscuit. — Take 8 lbs. of flour, IJ lb. of butter, 1 quart 
of sweet milk, 12 ounces of sugar, 1 ounce of carraway seed, 6 eggs ; 
mix dough of the above, break them in pieces of about two ounces, 
mould them off, roll tnem out, prick them and bake them in a' 
moderate oven. 

Savoy Biscuit. — Take of sugar the weight of 14 eggs, of flour the 
weight of 6 eggs, beat the yellows and whites of 12 eggs, separate, 
grate in tiio rind of a lemon ; after l>""ng in (he oven a few minute? 
grate on some sugar. You may add peach-water, or lemon-juice, 
or any flavoring extract. 

Ginger Snaps. — Take 7 lbs. of flour, 1 quart of molasses, 1 lb. of 

brown sugar^ 1 lb. butter, 2 ounces of ground ginger, and then 

jtake 1 gill ot water, ^ of an ounce of saleratus ; mix them all into 

[doufrh, and cut them out something larger than marbles, and baka 

tlj"iri in a moderate oven. 

YoKic Bif.criT. — 3 lbs. Hour, l lb. butter, I lbs. sugar : wet up, and 
raise with hout milk and saleratus. 



10 



BAKING /^ND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



hi 






i ti 



Traveller's Biscuit. — 2 lbs. of flour, f of a pound of sugar, i lb. 
butter, I ti;asi)00uful of (/mo/«'e(/ salomtus, milk suHiciont to form 
a (lougli. Cut ui) the butter iu the Hour, add tlie supir, .ind put 
in the salcratus and milk together, po us to form doujrh. Knead 
it till it becomes perfectly smooth and light. JloU it in sheets about 
^ of an inch thick, cut the cakes with a cutter or the top of a 
tumbler. liake in a moderate oven. 

Baking Powder for Biscuit. — Bicarbonate of soda 4 lbs., croam 
of tartar 8 lbs. These ingredients should be thoroughly dried and 
well mixed, and put up proof against dampness. Use about 3 toa- 
spoonfuls to ouch quart of Hour, mix up with cold water or milk, 
ami put it into the oven at once. 

Brown Bread for Biscuits. — Corn meal 4 qts., rye flour 3 qts., 
wheat iiour 1 qt., raolarses 2 tablespoonfiils, yiast G tablespoon- 
fuls, soda 2 teaspoonfuls. Mix during the evening for breakfast. 

MiNCK Pu;s — Meat 1 lb., suet 3| lbs., currants, raisins and plums, 
2 lbs., one glass brandy or wine ; allspice, ciimamou and cloves to 
your taste, sugar sufficient to sweeten. Baked in a short crust. 

Fruit Pies. — For all kinds of fruit pies have your fruit sweet- 
ened to your taste, and then put iu a short crust. Bake in a hot 
oven. 

. Pumpkin Pie. — Stew the pumpkin dry, and make it like sqijash 
pie, only season rather higher. In the country, wl'ore this ■n:al 
Vdrikcc pit; is prepared in perfection, ginger is almost always us.'d, 
with other spices. There, too, jiart croam, ins;ead of milk, is mixed 
with the pniUj>kiu, which gives a richer flavor. 

LuMON PiK. — 1 lemon grated, 2 i ggs, I cup of sugar, 1 cup of mo- 
lasses, 1 of vv'ater, and 3 tablespooufuls of flour. Tiiis makes 3 pies. 

LkmOxN Pir with thkkb crusts. — A layer of crust, a layer of le- 
mon, sliced fine, a little sugar, layer of crust again, and sugar and 
lemon again, then the up])er crust. 

Ano'har Win/. — 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of swoei milk, 1 egg, IJ 
lemon the grated peel and juice, 1 taolespoojitul of flour ; then 
after baking, the white of an egg beaten, sweutened, and put on 
the to]); then set in the oven and browned. 

Crumi! PiK. — Mince any cold nu'at very ilncly, season it to taste, 
a'ul put it into a jjie-dish ; have some linely-grated liread crumbs, 
with a little salt, pepjjcr, and nutmeg, and' pour into the dish any 
nice gravy tiuit may be at hand; then cover it over with a thick 
layer of the bread crumbs, and put small pieces of butter over the 
top.^ Place it in the o»en till quite hot. 

Washincton Pui:.— 1 cup of sugar, third of a cup of butter, half 
a cup of sweet milk, 1 and a third cup of flour, I egg, liaif a tea- 
spoonfid of soda, 1 of cn'ara of tartar, lemon flavor, (Jrease 2 
round tins, and put in the above. Bake uutil done. Then put it 
on a dinner j)late, s)>read with nice apple-sauce, or sauce of any 
kind ; then another layer of cake on top. It is nice withoutsauce, 
but sauce improves 't. 

FiiiiT PiK.— 1 cup of sugar, 1 of watcu-, tablofipooTifu.l of flour, toa- 
Bpooiiful oflemon essence (or kun "i gnu;al;.i ica.jMniifuiof ( ronin 
of tartar, lialf a toaspoonful of soda, lialf a cup ttf' dried currants; 
mix a ,di)o'l, .stirring to ))revent the flour from s 'ttling. 

i'UtcKaN Pu;— Take one pair of good young chickeuii^' cut in small 



BAKING AND COOKIC-Tn RECEIPTS, 



li 



:ut in small 



pieces, season with pepper and salt nrKl small 3trii)3 of iralt pork, put 
in Haiiccpau with Wiiti-r to cover it, lujii for halt ai hour, u.id flour 
and biutur to thicken tlie j/nivy, lii)\'e r^aily n large dish, served 
with paste, put all in the diah covered with a good rich paste. Bake 
i'vr half an hour 

Vkal Pot Pie. — Ta,kc 2 pounds of best veal, cut in small 
pi(;ces, half pound of salt pork, sliced thin, four quarts of cold 
water; pepper and salt all, put on the lire; after boiling for 1 
hour have 3 pounds of light bread dough, pick smaL pieces, say 
one ounce pieces, put in saucepan, with the veal and pork and let 
it boil for twenty minutes Serve as soon as taken from the 
fire 

Plum Pudding. — Pound G crackers, and soak them over night in 
milk enough to cover them, then add 3 pints of milk, 4 or 5 eggs, 
raisins ^ lb., spice with nutmeg and sweeten with sugar and 
molasses. Bake about 2 hours. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Pick and mash a cofiFee cup full of tapioca, 
and pour upon it 1 pint boiling milk ; after stfinding ^ an hour, add 
another pint of cold milk, with sugar and raisins if you desir-i. 

Baked Pudding. — 5 tablespoonfula of corn starch to 1 quart of 
milk, dissolve the starch in a jiart of Ihe nulk, heat the remainder 
of the milk to nearly boiling, luiviug salted it a little, then add 
the dissolved starch to the milk, boil 3 minutes, stirring it briskly; 
rJlow it to cool, aud then thoroughly mix with it 3 eggs, well beat- 
en, with 3 tablespoonsfuls of sugar ; flavor to your taste and bake 
tt 5 an hour, 'i his pudding ranks second to none. 

OuANCE Pudding.— Take 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb of sugar, 10 eggs, 
the juice of 2 orauges, boil the peel, then pound it hue and mix it 
with the juice Add the juice of 1 lemon, a wineglassful of 
brandy, wine and rose-water. If you do not have the fru'.t add 
the extracts. 

CocoANUT Pdddiwg. — To a large grated cocoanut add the whites 
of G eggs, i lb of sugar, G ounces of butter, j u wineglassful of 
rose-watt*r, and baked in or nut of paste. 

Kick Pudding. — TaKt 1 ' j. of rice, boiled well with rich mflk, 
Dtirriug well until it is soft, aud then add i lb, butter, 12 eggs, well 
beaten, atul spice to your taste, and bake it. 

IIakd Timks Pudding.— a pint of molasses or syrup, ^ pint water, 
2 teaspoonfuls of soda, 1 teaspoonful of salt, tiour euough to 
make a batter; boil in a bag for 3 hours. Eat it witii sauce. 

Baked Ai'I'um Pudding. — I'are aud quarter four large aj)ples, boil 
tluMa tender with the rind of a lemon in to little water that when 
done .no water may remain, beat tliein quite fine in a mortar, add 
the crumb of a small roll, i lb. of butter melted, the yolks of 5 and 
whites of 3 o^gs, juice of ^ lemcii, sugar to your taste, beat all 
well tojTother, all in paste. 

G'louND Rice, oit Sago PtTDDiNO. — Boil a large spoonful it, 
heaped, in 1 pint milk with lemon poi^l aiul cinnamon ; when cold 
add sufirnr. and nutmegs, and 4 eg,'r», wtdl beaten. 

C 'i-p ]'{■-■■ \:.--T:VxC ] pi.U. milk, i ..;iiwoi.fals flour, Ge<igg 
spii'" '. , you:' tii.-;ie and i>;ik;' 

WiNTOt, Pudding — Take the erupt of baker's loaf of bread, and 
fill it with plums, boil it in milk and water. 



12 



BAKING AND COOKING IlECEIPTS. 






|]' ■ 



^i 



I 



'■\ 'i 



Baked Potatoe Ptoding.— Baked potatoes skimmed and mashed 
12 oz., suet 1 oz , cheese, grated liin', 1 oz , milk 1 i^'iU. Mix the 
potatoes, suet, milk, cheese and all lugetlier, if iiol of a proper 
consistence, add a litile water. Bake in an earthen pot 

College Puddings.—^ lb of stale bread, ^'rated ; the same quan- 
tity of beef suet, chopped very fine ; 1 lb. of currants, .] nutmeg, a 
few cloves, a glass of brandy, 2 or 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of cream or 
milk ; mix these well together, and make into a paste in the shape 
of eggs. Fry them gently over a clear lire, in I lb of butter; let 
them be of a nice brown color all over You may add blanched 
almonds and sweetmeats Serve them up with wine 

Family PaoDiNG.— 1 quart of sweet milk, 1 pint of bread crumbs 
soaked in the milk, 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teacupful of sugar, little 
mace, 6 good tart apples, pared, cores duff out, a.id stand them 
in the pudding, and steam until the a\)ple3 arc well done. An hour 
will suffice. 

Cottage Pudding. — 1 egg, 1 cup of sugar, 1 of sweet milk, 
1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 of cream of tartar, 1 pint of flour, and e, 
little salt. To be eaten with milk and sugar 

GitEEN GoosEBKRRiES make a nice pudding by stirring a pint of 
them into a pint of batter, and either baking or boiling 

Lemon Pudding — Melt oz. of butter, pour it over the same 
quantity of powdered loaf sugar, stirring it well till cold, then 
grate the rind of a large lemon, and add it with 8 eggs well beaten 
anu the juice of 2 lemors : stir the whole till it is completely 
mixed together, and bake the pudding with a paste round the 
dish. 

Sauceb and Crbams fou Puddings. — 1. Take equal quantities 
of sugar and molasses, boil them together, and stir in a little 
flour • 2 Take the juice of an orange, a cup of sugar and the same 
of good cream . 3 Good sour cream made very sweet with sugar, 
T/ith or without seasoning, makes a good sauce : 4. Beat 2 eggs 
well, then add a cup of stewed a!)ples and a cup of sugar. 

Beef Steak with Onions — l'rei>are a rump steak by pounding 
it till quite tender, season with rait, pei)per and fresh butter, put 
in the steak and fry it, when brown on one side turn over, do not 
let it scorch, when nicely done, take it up, i)ut a little flour over 
the steak, then add gradually a cup of hot water, seasoned with 
more salt and pepper, if necessary ; then put the water over the 
fire and boil again, and pour over the steak 

Peel 2 dozen onions, put them on tu boil with about 2 quarts 
of water an hour before the steak is put on to fry When the steak 
is done, cut them up, put them in the frying pan, season well with 
Bait, pepper, -^fid butter, si)rinkle with flour, stir all well together, 
place over the fire, stir often to prevent scorching ; when they are 
a little brown and soft, nirn th< ui over the s'eak 

Seasoning for Stuffing.— 1 lb. of salt, dried and sifted; half 
an ounce of ground white pepper; two ounces of dried thyme; 
1 oz of dried nuirjoram ; and one oz of imtmeo-. When this 
seasoning is used, psir.^ley only is required to he choppe'l in sulTl- 
cicnt quan;ily to miilsi' tlic sdi'l'i-r gn'jn. TIk-, piojurtu/iib att; — 
i pound of bread crumbs ; '^ igf^s ; { lb. of Buetj ^ oz. oi sca- 
boning ; and the peel of Imlf a lemon, grated. 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



13 



Economical Soup. — Put into a saucepan one-pound pieces o! 
Uuli; l)ivml, ilive liirge ouioiis sliced, a small cabbage cut fine, 
J-varrut and turiii|), and a small head of celery (or the reinaing of 
any ruld vegetables , a tablespoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of 
[)epii( r, a biinch of parsley, a sprig of marjoram and thyme 
put these into two quarts of any weak stock, (the liquor in 
which mutton has been boiled will do,) and let them boil for 
two hours; rub through a fine hair-sieve, add a pint of new 
milk, boil up, and serve at once. 

VEOKTAnLE Soup. — Take a shin of beef, 3 large carrots, 3 large 
yellow onions, 6 turnips, J pound of rice or barley; parsley, 
leeks, summer savory ; put all into a soup-kettle, and let it boil 
four hours ; add ]iepj)er and salt to taste ; serve altogether. It 
makes a good family soup. 

Pea Soup. — Beet 5 lbs., water 5 qts., 6 large carrots, 6 good 
turnips, 3 large oniouij, salt sufficient, put it on a good slow 
fire, let it boil 3 hours, then strain all the broth from meat and 
vegetables, hikI then add 3 lbs. of split peas to the broth; set it on 
a slow lire for 2 hours, stirring often, so that all the peas will dis- 
solve ; take 1 lb. fresh sausage meat, fried to a crisf) ivnd fried bread 
crumbs ; put all together, add a few fine herbs, and serve hot. 

FiiiCASSKE Cnii; ens. - Take 2 large young chickens, cut iti small 
pieces, put ill cold vater for 1 hour to ttike all the blood out, then 
put in saucepan to parboil for half an hour, then take from sauce- 
pan drained well, have ready 1 qt. good fresh cream, 2 oz. good 
butter, 1 oz. of flour, all well mixed together; put in saucepan 
with the chickens; i)ut on the fire to boil tender; season with 
pepper and salt ; served with toast bread in the bottom of the 
dish. 

Baked ToMATOES.—Wash the tomatoes, take out the seed, make 
a dressing of crumbs of bread and onions chopped fine ; add 
salt, butter and pepper. Bake and serve hot. 

Stewed Tomatoes. — Scald the tomatoes with hot water, take 
off" the skins, put tiieni in an earthen vessel, strain oft" the water 
and add butter, salt and pepper to taste. 

Mashed Turnips. — Wash turnips, boil well, take them up in the 
colander, press out all the water, r. ash very fine; season with salt, 
butter ana sugar Serve hot with trimmings 

Hashed Meat. — Take 2 lbs of fat corned beef, well boiled and 
cold; 1 lb. of well boiled potatoes, cold; 1 large white onion; 
put in chopping tray, mince it fine, put all in saucepan together, 
add 2 0Z3. butter; pepper and salt to taste; add boiling water to 
make it soft ; set it on a sIoav fire, stirring it often. When well stewed 
serve hot It makes a fine relis4i for breakfast 

Lobster Salad. — Take inside of large lobster, mince fine, take 
yolk of 2 egfs boiled hard and ma.hed fine, with four tablespoon- 
ful s of sweet oil ; pepper, salt, vinegar, and mustard to taslc ; mix 
well ; add celery or lettuce to taste ; then when serving, garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs. 

SurcoTAHTi. — Take 1 doz. ears of corn, cut the grains from tho 
cob. iidd 1 qt. of Lima beans, and mix with the corn ; put it on to 
boil iu 3 qt. of water with i lb. uf pork cut, udd black popper uud 



14 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



■I 



salt to tar,lo When the water has boiled away to -I the original 
quantity, serve in a tnreon as soup. 

Maccarojji Soup. — 4 lbs. of loan bcof, 4 qts. of water, carrot, 
turnip, onions ; set it for 4 hours till all mix together ; strain it all 
through a sieve ; have 2 lbs. of muccaroni broken into pieces of one 
inch long ; put all into a saucepan together, and let it boil for 10 
minutes, and serve it hot. 

Boiled Custahd, or Mock Crkam. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of com 
starch,,! qt. of milk, 2 or 3 eggs, 5 a teaspoonfiil of salt and a small 
piece of butter, heat the milk to nearly boiling and add tlie starch, 
previously dissolved in 1 qt of milk, then add tJie cfr'^H, avoII beaten, 
with 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar ; let it huil up once or 
twice, stirring it briskly, and it is done. Flavor with lemon or 
vanilla, or raspberry, or to suit your taste, 

Lemon Cream. — Take a pint of thick cream and put to it the 
yolks of two eggs, well beaten, * oz oi fine sugar and the tliin 
rind of a lemon , boil it up, then stir till almost cold , put the juico 
of a lemon in a dish or bowl and pour the cream upon it, stii'ring 
till quite cold. 

Fruit Creams. — Tak-e ^ oz. of isinglass dissolved in a little 
water, then i)ut 1 pt. of good cream, sweetened to the taste ; boil 
it When nearly cold lay some apricot or rai^pberry jam on tha 
bottom of a gla.s3 dish ana i)our it over Tliis is most excellent. 

Rasi'berry Cream. — Put G ozs. of raspberry jam to 1 (jt. of 
cream, pulp it through a lawn sieve, add to it the juica of a lemon 
and a little sugar, and whisk it till thi'-k. Serve it in a dish or 
glasses. 

To roast fowls the fire must be quick and clear. If smoky, it 
will spoil both tlieir taste and looks Baste frequently, and keep 
a white paper pinned on the breast till It is near done 

TuRicaf. — A good sized turkey cliould be roasted 2^ hours or 
3 hours — very slowly at first If you wish to make plain stuffing, 
pound a cracker i<t crumble some bread very Am', chop some 
raw salt pork very fine, sift some sage, (and sunnncr-savory, or 
sweet-marjoram, if you have tliein in the house, and fancy 
them,) and mould thoni all together, seasoned with a little pepper 
An Ggg worked in makes4he stuffing cut better 

Boiled Turkey.— Clean the turkey, fill the crop with stuffing, 
and sew it up. Put it over the fire in water enough to cover it, 
let it boil slowly — t;ike o'if all the scura When this is done, it 
should only simmer till it is done. Put a little salt into the water, 
and dredge tlws turkey with Hour before boiling. 

Roast Ducks and Geese — Take sage, wash' and pick it, and nn 
onion; chop ihem fine, with pepper and salt, and put them in t^e 
belly, lot the goose be clean picked, and wiped dry with a cloth, 
inside and out ; put it down to the fire, and roast it brown. Ducks 
are dressed in the same way For wild ducks, teal, pigeons, and 
other wild fowl, use only pepper and salt, with gravy in the dish. 
Roast CuiCKiiiN.— Chicken.^ should be managed in roapiling t'to 
same as turla;y.=<, only tiiat tlicy require lo.ja lime. From an hour 
to an hour and a half is long enough 

B(ULKu Chicken.— A chicken should bo boiled the same as a 
turkey, only it will take loss timer-about -iS minates is sufii 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



15 



cicnt. Use the same stnfBng, if any, and servo it np with parsley, 

i-ii f frnr-H.'iiir.O. 



01 egg-sauce. 
I5i;(>ii,Ki) Chicken. 



Slit, tliom down the l^aok nn<I sr-.'ir,oii 



pcppv.r luid liiilr; biy tl)eiii ciii >i cliMr lire of conl-;, t!ie inside p.\t 
llic liro till liiili'doiH' , thou liini, and broil to a n lo brown lolo;-. 
broil about Sf) niiuut<'s. 

B011.KU I'KiEo.ss — Boil them about 15 minntos by thonigtdvv'*, 
then boil a ijicco of bucon ; scrva with slices of bacon and melted 
butter. 

Fisii CnotVDEU. — Fry a few slices of salt ))ork, dress and cut Ihr 
fi.sh iu small. pieces, pare and slice the potatoes and onions, tber. 
place them in tho kettle, a layer of fish, then of the fried pork 
potatoes, onions, dice., seasoning each layer wiui salt and pepper. 
Stew over a slow fire 30 minutes. 

Roast Beef. — Tiie sirloin is considered the best for roasting. 
Si)it the meat, j)epper tlie top, and baste it well while roasting 
with its own drip])ing, and throw cm a handful of salt. When the 
smoke dra\/s to tho tiro, if is near enough; keep the fire bright 
and clear. From 15 to '20 minutes to the lb., is the rule for roast- 
ing. 

Beep Boiled.— The round is the best boiling piece. Put the 
meat in the pot, with water eiuiugh to cover it; let it boil very 
slow at first — tiiis is th<.' great secret of making it tender — take off 
the scum as it rises. From 2 to 3 hours, according to size, is the 
rule for boilmg. 

Beef Steak. — The inside of the sirloin makes the best steak -, 
cut about j; of an inch thick — have the gridiron hot, put on the 
meat and set it over a good fire of coals — turn them often. From 
8 to 10 minutes is the rul.' for broiling. 

Roast PouK.—Take a leg of pork and wash it clean — cut the 
skin m squares -make a stuffing of grated bread, sage, onion, 
])epper and salt, moistened with the yolk of an egif. Put this 
imder the skin of the knuckle, and sprinkle a little ])()wdered sago 
into the rind where it is cut ; rul) the wh(de surface of the skin 
over with a feather dipped in sweet oil. 8 lbs. will require about 
throe hours to roast it. 

BfeiT" The SuoiTLDEU, Loin, or Chink, and Spare- Rib are roasted 
in the same manner. 

Roast Veal. — Pursue about the same course as in roasting pork. 
Roast before a brisk fire till it comes to a brown color ; when you 
lay it down baste it well with good butter, and when near done, 
vith a little flour. 

2ioAST Mutton. — Tlie loin, haunch, and saddle of mutton and 
lamb nmst be done the same as beef. All other parts must be 
roa^ited with a quick, ckwr fire; baste it when you put it down, 
and drcdgo it with a little flour, Jn.st before you take it ui>. A leg 
of mutton of si.v pounds will require 1 hour to roast before a quick 
fire. 

To Boil Er.os. — In 3 minutes an egg will boil soft, in 4 tho 
white part is compliMely coidvod, in Ht, it is fit for a salad. Try 
tlioir freshness in cold watei', those that sink tho soonest are tho 
fresliest. 

Sausaqe Meat. — Take 2 lbs. lean meat, 1 lb. fat-porK, chop fine, 



16 



BAKING AND COOKING REOEIPTd. 



and mix with 2 teaspoonfulB of black pepper, 1 of cloves, 7 of 
powdered sage, and 5 of salt. 

Apple Ct;sTA!i» —Take apples, pared, cored, nnd aliphtly stewed, 
suificient to cover the dish, 8 eggs, 1 qt. of milk ; spice to your 
taste ; bake it i of an hour. 

New-England Apple-sauce or Butter. — Boil 2 brie, of new cider 
down to i a brl. Pare, core, and slice up 3 bushels of apples 
(sweet apples are preferable)j and put them into the cider thus 
reduced, and still kept boilmg briskly. Stir the whole mass 
constanUy, to prevent burning, till ot the consistence of soft 
butter. A small quantity of pulverized allspice, added during the 
boiling, is an improvement. Boil in a brass kettle, and, when 
done, put it into a wooden firkin, or small cask, and it will keep 
for years. 

Apple Butter (Pennsylvania Method). — Boil new cider down 
to i. Pare, cut, and core equal quantities of sweet and sour 
apples. Put the sweet apples in a large kettle to soften a little 
first, as they are the hardest. A dd enough boiled cider to cook 
them. After boiling i an hour, stirring often, put in the sour 
apples, and add more boiled cider, with molasses enough to 
sweeten moderately. Boil until tender, stirring :o prevent burning. 
Pack in firkins or stone pots for winter use. 

Irish Stew. — Take 4 lbs. good breast of fat mutton, cut in small 
pieces ; 2 large white onions ; 10 large potatoes, well peeled and 
sliced; put all in saucepan together, with fine herbs, pepper and 
salt to suit; a little salt pork is a good addition ; i lb. of flour ; 
i lb. good fresh butter, well rubbed together, and let it boil for one 
hour, aud have it well cooked. 

Apple Dumplings. — G eggs, IJ lbs. of flour, some butter to your 
taste, and tablespoonful of ^'east, and sufficient milk to make a 
dough to roll-out; when raised, cut in small pieces, put in the 
apples, and cook for 5 of an hour ; serve with white sugar or wine 
sauce. 

Boiled Poultry. — Take large chickens, well cleaned with cold 
water, put in saucepan with water to cover, boil 1 hour ; served 
with sauce. 

Hasued Turkey. — Take meat from boiled fowls, chop fine, put in 
saucepan, with seasoning to suit taste. Served on toast. 

Boiled MACCARONi.—Take 2 lbs., break in small pieces^ put ill 
warm water to steep 1 hour, drain off, put in saucepan witn 2 qts. 
fresh cream, with grated cheese; seasoned with red pepper. 

Strasburq Potted Meat.— Take IJ lbs. of the rump of beef, cut 
into dice, put it in an earthen jar, with i lb. of butter, tie the jar 
close up with paper, and set over a pot to boil ; when nearly done, 
add cloves, mace, allspice, nutmeg, salt, and cayenne pepper to 
taste, then boil till tender, and let it get cold, pound the meat, 
with 4 anchovies mashed and boned, add i lb. of oiled Imtter. 
work it well together with the gravy, warm a little, aud add 
cochineal to color, then press into small pots, and pour melted 
mutton suet over the top of each. 

Bologna Sausages. — Take equal quantities of bacon, fat iiud leon^ 
beef, veal, pork and beef suet; chop them small, season with pep- 
per, salt, 4c., with sweet herbs and sage rubbed fine. Have trell 



FMnvn AND COOKINO RECEIPTS. 



17 



washed intestines, fill, and prick them ; boil gently for an hour, 
and l)iy on straw to dry. 

iijcii (S^iJHAdt;.-.. — Tuky 30 ]b:^. of cboppod nioal. 3 oz. fiiio s.'slt, 
■^i ca. pi'ppf.r, I tea ciii'i of sago, and U ('ii[;s of swot-t niarjoniin, 
paascd ILinnigh u line sieve, or, if preferred, thyme aad suiiimer 
giivory can be substitiitt d for the latter. 

liow TO SAVK Yoim IcK BiLL. — Get a quantity of empty barrels or 
boxes during the coldest time in the winter, and put a few indies 
of water in t-acb ; tiie evening wlien the cold is most intense is the 
be.^t time to do this. After the water is frozen solid, fill up again, 
repeat the process until the barrels are full of solid ice, then roll 
tbem into your cellar, cover them up with plenty of sawdust 
or straw, and your ice crop is safely harvested. 

Charlotte Kusse. — Take 1 pt. milk, dissolve with heat, 3 oz. 
isinglass and I lb. sugar; add, after it is cool, 1 qt. beaten cream 
and ilour, suit your taste and line out some mould with sponge 
cake, and put the cream in it and cool. 

WiNB Jelly. — Take 1 pt. water and 3 oz. isinglass, 1| lb. sugar, 
the juice of 2 lemons, and dissolve that and let it come to a boil, 
then add wine, branay and spice to your taste, and strain it through 
a cotton or flannel cloth and put ii in moulds to cool. 

To MAKE Apple Molasses.— Take new sweet cider just from the 

firess, made from sweet ai)ples, and boil it down as thick as West- 
ndia molasses. It should be boiled in brass, and not burned, 
as that would injure the flavor. It will keep in the cellar, and is 
said to be as good, and for many purposes better, than "West-India 
molasses. 

B^^Acid fruits should bo cooked in bright tin, brass, or bell 
metal, and poured out as soon as they are done. Brown earthen 
vessels should never be used, as they are glazed with white lead, 
a ])oison which very readily unites with an acid. 

Jellies. — Lemon Jelly. — Isinglass, 2 oz. ; water, 1 qt. ; boil ; add 
BUgar, 1 lb. ; clarify ; and, when nearly cold; add the juice of 5 
lemons, and the grated yellow rinds ot 2 oranges and 2 lemons ; 
mix well, strain off the peel, and put it into glasses or bottles; 
HartshoTTi Jelly. — Hartshorn, 1 lb.; water 1 gal. ;peel of 2 lemons ; 
boil over a gentle fire till sufficiently thick ; strain and add loaf 
BUgar, J lb. ; whites of 10 eggs beaten to a froth ; juice of 6 lemons ; 
taix well together, then bottle. Isinglans Jelly. — Put 4 oz. isinglass 
and 2 oz. cloves into 1 gal. water; boil it down to half a gal. ; strain 
it upon 4 lbs. of loaf sugar ; add, while cooling, a little wine ; then 
bottle. Apple Jelly from. Cider. — Take of apple juice, strained, 4 
lbs. ; sugar, 2 lbs. ; boil to a jelly, and bottle. Oooseberry Jelly. — 
Sugar, 4 lbs. ; water, 2 lbs. ; boil together ; it will be nearly solid 
when cold ; to this syrup, aad an equal weight of gooseberry juice ; 
give it a short boil, cool, then pot it. Currant Jelly. — Take the 
juico of red currants, and loaf sugar, equal quantities ; boil and stir 
gently for thrco hoiird ; put it into glasi^es ; and in three days it 
will concentrate into a firm jelly. Tapioca Jelly. — Wash 8 oz. 
of tji))ioca well ; then soak it in 1 gal. fresh water, five or six hours ; 
add llio ()eels of 8 lemons, and set all on to heat ; simmer till clear ; 
add the jaice of the 8 lemons with wine and sugar to taste ; \hen 
bottlt. 



18 



BAKING AND COOKING RECEIPTS. 



BriACKnRRnv .lEiiLY. — This preparation of tho blackberry ia more 
agroinibli; than the jam, m the Hccl'i, liioi.trli very wholo;U)nie, aru 

!;i't .1-; .!',;i!/lc t,:j ;iM. UU v.v.ih: ia i ho yiiiite w;iy nrf (Mrrj.iit j(!lly ; 
l)Ut the f'niit i3 60 svvei'L thai, jc uuly iV4uiivd hall'thu Wciglituf the 

juieO ill SI!<,':II'. 

Pkaii Mahiiai,aue.--To G lbs. of small pours, (ako 4 lbs. of snprar; 
put tlio jioiirri into a sauceiiaii, witli a lit.K' ccjM waiir ; c .vcr it, 
and sot it over tin; (ire until the fruit i-t soft, tlieii juit them into 
cold water; pare, quurter, and cue tiiem ; ]iiit to liieui tlia-e toa- 
cupa of water, set them over the lire ; roll the suj^ar hue, mash tho 
fruit fine and smooth, ]iut tiie sugar to it, stir it well totfether until 
it is thick, like jelly, then put it in tumblers, or jars, and, when cold, 
secure it as jelly. 

Pkehruvho (Jithon. — Pa.'e and cut open tho citron ; clean all out 
except the rind ; boil till sut't. To 1 Ih. ot citron add I lb. of sup^ar, 
and a lemon to each lb. ; i)Ut the sugar ami lemon together, and 
boil it till it becomes a syrup, skimming it well ; thou put the syrup 
and citron together, and boil it an hour. 

Scotch Maumaladk. — Take of the juice of S'ville orangca 2 
pts., yellow honey, 2 lbs. lioil 'o a proper consistence. 

llASi'nEuuv Jam. — Allow a jioutuI of sugar to a ])ound of fruit, 
mash the rasi)berrie3 and l>ut thom, with tho sugar, into your 
presc. v^ing kettle. Boil it slowly for an hour, skimming it well. 
Tie it up with brandy paper. All jams are made m the same 
manner. 

FuENCii Honey.— White sugar, 1 lb. ; eggs, leaving out the 
whites of 2 ; the juice of 3 or 4 lemons, and the grated rind of 2, 
and i lb. of butter; stir over a slow fire until it is of the consis- 
tency of honey. 

Almond Blanc Mange.— Take four ounces of almonds, six o%. 
sugar, boil together with a (luart of water, melt in this two 
ounces of pure isinglass, strain in a small tin moidd to stifleu it. 
When wanted, di|) the mould in hot wat' r and turn it out. 

Lemon Blanc Manqe. — Pour a jnnt if hot Avat"r upon half arx 
ounce of isinglass ; when it is dissolved add the juice of throe 
lemons, the peel of two lemons grated, six yolks of egg^ beaten, 
and about a good wine-glass of ^ladeira wine to it ; sweeten to 
your taste ; let it boil ; tlien strain it and put it in your moulds. 

Molasses Preskiives.— Boil 1 qt. of molasses about ten or fifteen 
minutes to a thickisli co isisteney, then add eggs well beaten, 
and a spoonful of flour. Boil a few minutes longer, stirring con- 
staTtly, then set off the fire, aad tlavor with lemon or allspice as 
desired. 

Fruit S.xtracts, &c — Good alco jol, 1 qt. oil of lemon, 2 oz. Break 
and bruise the peel of 4 lemons, and add to the alcohol for a few 
days, then filter. For currants, j)eaches, ra3pberrie=;, ])iue apples, 
strawberries, blackberries kc, take 'ilcnhul and water half aid 
half, and })our over the fruit, entirely covering it, and let it 
stand for a few days. For esi^ence of cinuainon, nutnr'g, mace, 
vanilla, <tc., pulverise either arfitlo tiiorouglily, and put about 
2 o7.. of ttie resulting i)ow(lcr to eacli pint of reduced alcohol, 
agitate the mixture frequently for 2 weeks, theu lUter and color aa 
desired, 



FARMERS* RECEIPTS. 



19 



Wliont flour 1 lb 

IiKiiiui meal l"2oz • 1 iniart 

HutfiT when soft. 1" "I " 

LoKl'sufrnr.bnikoii 1 " . . . . "1 " 
Whit08Ugar,i)0wdl"loz. " 1 " 



MEARtmEg FOW IIonaEKEKPKP*} 
is 1 quart 



Host brown 

rtiigur 1 lb. 2 oz. Is 1 qt. 

I'A'ijs 10 I'K^ts are 1 lb. 

Flour 8 <its. " 1 pt'ck. 

Flour A pka. " 1 bush. 



Liquids. 



16 largo tablospoonfuls, aro. . i pint. 
8 largo tabloapooufuls aro. . 1 gill. 
4 largo tablc'spoonfuls, aro. . J ^ill. 

2gill8,nrG i pint. 

2 pintfi, aro 1 qt. 



4 qts. aro.. - 1 gallon. 

A common sized tumbler holds J a 

pint. 
A common sized wine-glass " i a 

gill. 
26 drops are equal to 1 teaspoon ftil. 



FARMERS AND STOCK OWNERS' DEPART. 

MENT. 

Superphosphate of Limb, the greatest Aorioulturai. Discovery 
OF TUB AoK. — Tftke a large punclieon, largo tub, or barrel, and put 
into it 100 lbs. water , add, very slowly and cautiously, 50 lbs. of 
pure sulphuric acid; you must bo very careful, while handling 
this article, not to let it touch your skin or clothing, as it will 
Instantly blacken the skin, and destroy the clothing, wherever it 
comes in contact; and, when mixed with water, it engenders a 
very intense heat. Into this mixture throw 100 lbs. weight of 
bones, no matter how old or useless they may be. The sulphuric 
acid instantly attacks and enters into combinatior. with the oones, 
reducing them to a pasty consistence, and completely dissolving 
them. Keep under cover, and turn them over occasionally, while 
the process is going on ; and, when completed, dump out thewholo 
contents on the barn floor or on a platform of boards, and 
thoroughly work into the mass four times its bulk of dry bog- 
earth or dry road-dust; mix and pulverize completely with a 
wooden shovel. The bog-earth acts as an absorbent or drier, 
retaining the fertilizing properties of the compound, and rendering 
it easy of uniform distribution. If whole bones are used, it will 
take six or eight weeks to dissolve them ; if they are broken with 
an axr, they will dissolve in about three weeks ; if tl ey are ground 
in a bone mill, four days "will be sufficient. This n anure is the 
most powerful fertilizer in existence ; and, when made by these 
directions, it is the cheapest, as one ton is equal to thirty-two tons 
of barn-yard manure. For top-dressing grass lands, use 300 lbs. 
per acre ; for corn, potatoes, beans, turnips, &c., apply 450 lbs. per 
acre in the drill, mixing with the soil: for wheat, rye, oats, or 
barley, 400 lbs. per acre, harrow in with the seed ; for buckwheat, 
300 lbs. per acre. 

SupBRPiiosi'iiATB IN TwBNTY-FOUR HouRS. — Any farmer who has 
got an apparatus for steaming food for cattle can make super- 
phosphate in quick style by admitting steam from the boiler into 



20 



FAUMEB^ 11£0EIPT». 



the barrel containing the water, acid, and ground bones. The 
heat thus generated quickeng the dissolution of the bones in a 
wonderful manner ; ami, if the process is properly conducted, it 
will not take ovlt t\vi:iily-fuiu- Imurj in tiny ea.jo. It is iiulispon- 
Bal^le that the barrel be tigiitly covered to retain the ateura. 

Feutilizkh for Todacco. — Take and add 30 lbs. of the best 
Peruvian Guano to each 100 lbs. weight of the superphosphate 
made by the above receipt, and you will have one of the most 
powerful fertilizers for tobacco that can bo made. If you do not 
have Peruvian Guano, use in lieu thereof 25 lbs. of hen manure to 
each 100 lbs. weight of superphosphate. 

HoMK-MADB PouDUETTE. — Few lertilizcrs are wasted with tho 
prodigality of extravagance which attends tho use of night soil, 
while tho exercise of a little care and attention is all that is 
required to secure one of the most powerful fertilizers in existence. 
Night soil contains phosphate of limo, which is essential to the 
growth of animakj' bones, and which is not supplied from the 
atmosphere like carbonic acid and ammonia In order to receive 
tho droppings in a manageable and inoilonsivo state, the vault 
should be provided with a largo, tight box made of matched plank, 
placed to slide on scantling, so that it can be drawn out, by 
attaching a horse, whenever required. Provide plenty of dry, 
black loam from the woods or swamps; refuse charcoal, drv peat, 
or alluvial deposits answer first-rate. Keep them dry, in barrels 
or boxes on the spot, under cover ; spread a thick laver on the 
bottom of the recoiving box, and at intervals of a few aays throw 
in a liberal supply of these absorbents on the accumulating deposit. 
If a few handfuls of plaster are thrown in occasionally, it will 
suppress unpleasant odors, and increase tho value of the manure. 
The emptying of slops and dish waier in the box should bo strictly 
prohibited. When the box is filled, you can remove it, and con- 
vert it into poudrotte. For this purpose it must be worked over 
with an additional quantity of muck, or other absorbent, in such 
proportions that it will form, with w liat has been previously added, 
about three-quarters of tho entire compound. The working should 
be done under a shed, and tho whole kept perfectly dry. It should 
be shovelled over and mixed several times at intervals, and finally 
screened, and made as uniform throughout as possible : tho finer it 
is pulverized, and the drier it is kept, the better. 

HoME-MADB Guano of Unkquallkd Excellence. — Save all your 
fowl manure from sun and rain. To prepare it for use, spread a 
layer of dry swamp-muck ( the blacker it is the better) on your 
barn floor, and dump on it the whole of your fowl-manure ; beat it 
into a lino powder with the back of your spade ; this done, add hard 
wood ashes and plaster of Pans, so that the compound shall be 
composed of the following proportions • dried muck, three bushels; 
fowl-manure, 2 bushels; ashes, 1 bushel; plaster, 1^ bushels. 
Mix thoroughly, and spare no labor ; for, in this matter, the elbow- 
grease expended will be well paid for, A little before planting, 
moisten the heap with water, or, better still with urine ; cover well 
over T,ith old mats, and let it lie till wanted for use Apply it to beans 
corn, or potatoe?, at the rate of a handful to a hill ; arid mix with 
the soil before dropping the seed. This will be found «lie best 



I 



7AaMER8 BGOEIPTS. 



81 



flubetltutc for p^ano ever invented, and may bo depended on for 
bringinfj great crops of turnips, corn, potatoes, Ac. 

To Dissolve Large Bonks fok Manuhe, without Bxprnsb. — Tako 
any old llour-lxirrd, iiiid put into the bottom u Itiycr nf li.'ird-wood 
asbcd ; put a layer of bones on tlio top of the ashes, and add 
another layer of ashen, filling tho space between the bones 
with ihem ; then add boncg and aslies alternately, finishing off 
with a thick layer ot ashes. When j^our barrel is filled, ponr 
on water (urine is better,) just suflScient to keep them wet, 
but do not on any account suffer it to leach one drop ; for that 
would be like leaching vour dungheap. In the c mrse of time they 
will heat, and eventually soften down so that you can crumblo 
them with your finger. When sufficiently softened, dump them 
out of tho barrel on a heap of dry loam, and pulverize and crumble 
them up till they are completely amalgamated into one homoge- 
neous mass with the loam, so that it can bo easily handled and 
distributed whenever required. You may rely on it, this manure 
will leave its mark, and show good results wherever it is used 

Substitute fok Superpuospiiate. If you have inch bone ground in 
ft bone-mill, and cannot afford to purchase sulphuric acid to work 

j it up into superphosphate of lime, you can reduce your bones into 
a fine impalpable powder by simply using three barrels of loamy 
soil to every barrel of inch bones ; mix them together The bones 

I , will soon begin to heat and ferment, and continue so for some 
time ; they will then cool off. You will then proceed to chop down 
and pulverize and work the mass thoroughly ; it will begin to re- 
heat and ferment and cool down again , and you will continue 

[^working it over till the contents are brought to the proper state of 
fineness, when you will have a fertilizer of astonishing power It 
is only a year or two since a statement appeared in the " Country 
Gentleman," of the experiments of a Mr. Haskell with a manure 
prepared after this method, who found it even superior to super- 
phosphate of lime. 
How to double the usual Quantity op Manure on a Pahu, — 

i Provide a ^ood supply of black swamp mould or loam from tbo 
woods, within easy reach of your stable, and place a layer of this, 
one foot thick, under each horse, with litter as usual, on the top of 
the loam or mould. Remove the droppings of the animals every 
day, but let tho loam remain for two weeks ; then remove it, mixing 
it with the other manure, and replace with fresh mould. By this 
simple meanSj any farmer can double not only the quantity but 
also the quality of his manure, and never feel himself one penny 
the poorer by the trouble or expense incurred, while the fertilizing 
value of the ingredients absorbed and saved by the loam can 
scarcely be estimated. 

Josiah Quincy,jun., has been very successful in keeping cattle m 
Btables the year through, and feeding them, by means of soiling. The 
amount of manure thus made had enabled him to improve the fer- 
tility of a poor farm of 100 acres, so that in twenty years the hay 
crop had increased from 20 to 300 tons. Tho cattle are kept in a 
well-arranged stable and are let out into the yard an hour or two 
morning and afternoon ; but Ihey generally appear glad to return 
to their quarters. By this process, one acre enables him to sup- 



22 



farmers' receipts. 



port three or four cows. They arc fed on crraBS, preen oats, corn 
fodder, barley &c., which arc sown at intervals through the spring 
and summer months, to be cut as required ; but lie r'Miiarks Hint his 
most valuable crop is his nmuure crop. Each cow produces 3.V 
cords of solid, and 3 cords of liquid manure, or i;.l oonls in all lie 
uses twice as much muck to mix with it, niak'ug 20 cords in all. 
Five to eight miles from Boston, such manure is worth five to eight 
dollars a cord. From this estimate, he has come to the conclusion 
that a cow's manure may be made ar valuable as her milk 

Twenty Dollars' Worth op Manure foh almost Nothing — 
If you have any dead animal,— say, for instance, the body of a 
hor.se,— do not suffer it to pollute the atmos])liere by drawing it 
away to the woods or any other out of the way place, but n move 
it a short distance only, from your premises, and put down four or 
five loads of muck or sods, pla o the carcass thereon, and sprinkle 
it over with quick-lime, and cover over immediately with sods or 
mould sufficient to make, witlnvhat bad been previously added, 20 
good waggon-loads; and you will have, within twelve months, a 
pile of manure worth $20 for any crop you choose to put if upon 
Use a proportionate quantity of mould for smaller animals, but 
never less than twenty good waggf)n-loads for a horse , and, if any 
dogs manifest too great a regard for the enclosed carcass, shoot 
them on the spot. 

Fisn Compost, SrBSTiTUTE for Bone-Dpst, MANriiB from Fish 
Rkfi'SE, &c. — The fish owes its fertilizing value to the animal 
matter and bone-earlh wliich it contains. Tlie former is jirecisely 
similar to flesh or blood, consisting of 25 per cent, of fibrin, the rest 
being water ; and their bones are siniihir in C'ini]H).-^it!on to those- 
of terrestrial animals. As fertilizing agents, therefore, the bodies 
of fishes will net nearly in the same WMy as the })odi( s and blond of 
rninials ; 100 lbs,, in decaying, produce 2.V lbs ofamnujnia ITence 
410 lbs offish rotted m com])ost are enough for an acre Tlie great 
effect is due to the ammoniacal portion ; for it renders the her- 
bage dark-green, and starts it very rapidly One of the best com- 
posts is made as follows : Dried bog-earth, loam, or i)eat^ seven 
barrels ; hardwood ashes, two barrels ; fish, one barrel , slacked 
lime, one bushel. Place a thick layer of the bog-earth on the bottom , 
on the top of this put a layer of the fish, then a sprinkling of lime, 
then a layer of ashes , on top of the aslu'S puta thick layer tf bog- 
earth, loam, or peat ; then an{,;her tltin layer of fis'i, lime, and ashes, 
and sc on till your materials are worked in , then top off with n 
thick layer of the n])snrbents, to retain the fertilizing gases The 
decom])osition of the fish will ]U'oceed very r.'M'idly, a'd a very rich 
compost will be the result It should b^shovellid over and ovoi 
and thoroughly intermixed and )mlveri/,ed. Put tliis on so as t(. 
have 400 lbs offish to the acre It may be applied with the greatest 
benefit to corn, turnips, potatoes, beans, &c., in the drill ■ and broad 
cast on the grass 

Su])ernl'o«phate can be made from pogy-chum, or the refuse of 
other fish, afrer the oil is expressed, by dusscdving in suli)hi:ric acid, 
and afterwards m'xingwitli dry l(>am. T'recisclv as directed for 
making superphosphate with bones Whale-oil' or the oil of any 
fisl), when made into a compost with loam, and n little lime or 



FARMERS RECEIPTS. 



23 



,'00(1 ashes, yields a very powerful manure, merely mixed with 
ihsorbent earth and applied at the end of the month. Impure whale- 
>il, at the rate of 40 gallons per acre, has produced a crop c;" 23i 
tons of turnips per acre ; w hile on the same soil, and during the 
same season, it took 40 bushels of bone-dust to produce only 22 tons 
per acre. 

Ashes from Soil by Spontaneous Combustion. — Make your mound 
Jl feet long by 10^ feet wide. To tire, use 72 bushels of lice. First 

layer of dry sods or parings on which a quantity of lime ;s spread, 

lixing soda with it ; then a covering of eight inches of scds, on 

,'hich the other half of the lime is spread, and covered a foot thick, 

the height of the mouud beingabout a yard. In twenty-four hours 

It will take fire. The lime should be fresh from the kiln. It is 

jetter to suffer it to ignite itself than to effect it by the operation 

3f water. When the fire is fairly kindled, fresh sods must be ap- 

jilicd ; but get a good body of ashes in the first j)lace. I think it 

nay b« faiily supposed that the lime adds full ite worth to the 

piiility of the ashes, and, when limestone can be got, 1 would ad- 

risc tlie burning a small quantity in the mounds, which would be 

great improvement to the ashes, and would help to keep the fire 
|n. 

Substitute Fon Baun-manure. — Dissolve a bushel of salt iu 

k'ater enough to slack 5 or G bushels of lime. The best rule for pre- 

|)iiring the compost heap is, 1 bushel of this lime to 1 load of 

Bwanip-muck, intimately mixed ; though 3 bushels to 5 loads makes 

very good manure. In laying up the heap, let the layer of muck , 
ind lime be thin, so that decomposition may be more rapid and 
complete. When lime cannot be got, use unleached ashes, — 3 or 4 
Visliels to a cord of muck. In a month or six weeks, overhaul and 
lork over the heap, when it will be ready for use. Sprinkle the 
^alt water on the lime as the heap goes up. 

JiiEEi'-DiiTiNO Composition. — Water, 1 gal. ; benzine, 8 ounces ; 
caycnnt; pepper, 2 ounces. Mix : make what quantity you 
tc<iiiire, using those proportions. t)ij» your sheep and lambs in 
tbxi compositiuu, and it will aiake short work of the vermin. 

Oat oh Wheat Straw made equal to Hay. — Bring 10 gallons 
rater to a boiling heat ; take it off the lire, and add to it at once 

gallons of linseed unground ; let it remain till ^ipets cold ; then 
knipty the whole into a cask, coKtaining 44 gallons of cold water, 
tiid let it remain for forty-eight hours. At the end of that time, 
It will be reduced into a thin jelly, like arrowroot. Spreat out ^ 
Ion straw, and sprinkle it over regularly with the whole of the 
liquid from the cask. The stock will oat it up as clean, and keep 
is fat on it, quantity for quantity, as they would do on hay. 

Death fok Vermin on Plants or Animals.— Pour a gallon of 
|)oiling water on one pound tobacco leaves, strain it in twenty 

iiuites ; for vermin, on animals or plants, this decoction is certain 
liatii. 

Kemedy for Curculio in Fruit trees.— Sawdust saturated in 
tnal oil, and placed at the roots of the tree, will be a sure preven- 
ive ; or, clear a circle around the free from all rubbish ; fiilup all 
Itfli! lioli's and Hii.oofh off the giound for a distance of at least 3 
?i't each wiiy from the tieo, then place chips or small pieces of 



24 



FAKMKUS' UECEIPTS. 



I ! 



t » 



wliito 



-wood on tlie «roim<l wiUiin the oirtlc ; the cuniilio will take refnrre 
in large nunilMTS be'ou the ehiiis, uiid you cin paSo .i.o;;ii(l m llii| 
morniiips aiitl kill lliom oft". ,, ,, . u i 

Gkaftino nVax.— Rosin, 1 lb.; l)ees-wax, 1 lb.; with tallow .,r 
lard siiftieient to soften until it can be readily aj)plied with llit[ 
hand ; melt. 

Dk. Cole's Kino of Oils.— 1 oz. fireen (•o])peras ; 2 o: . 
vitriol , 2 oz. e<jnin)on suit; 2 oz liiistca od ; H oz. molasses 
over a slow lire fifteen minutes, in a i)int of urine; when almuslj 
cold, add 1 oz. of oil of vitriol and 4 oz of siiirits turpenliiif. 
Apply to wounds with a feather A very i)owerful liniment. ^ 

Sloan's Horse Ointment.— 4 oz rosin; 4 oz. bees-wax; lanl.sj 
oz. ; honey, 2 oz., Mix slowly and gently bring to a boil ; then add! 
less than 1 ))int spirits turpentine; then remove, and stir till cool,' 
Unsurpassed for horse-flesh, cracked hoofs, human flesh, &c. 

Mexican Mustang Liniment.— Petroleum, olive oil, and cur-i 
bonate of ammonia, each equal parts ; and mix. It is one of tlitj 
best liniments in use. [ 

Meuciiant's Gaholing Oil.— Take 2^ gals, linseed oil ; 2J galsl 
spirits turpentine ; 1 gal, western ])etrokum ; 8 oz. licpior potass! 
sap green, 1 oz Mix all together, aiid.it is ready for use. 

Arabian Condition Pomdichs.— Ground ginger, 1 lb.; snlphiinil 
of antimony, 1 lb.; jiowdered suljdiur, lib.; saltpetre,! lb. ]\Ii.\l 
all together; and administer in a masli, in such quantities as maj 
be required." The best condition powder in e.x-istence. 

Blisteiuno Liniment. — 1 jiart Spanish flie^, finely ])owdered ; 
of lard; and 1 of yellow rosin. Mix the hird and rosin together] 
and add the flies when the other ingredients liegin to cool, Tui 
render itmore active, add 1 ])int spirits turiientine. 

Medicated Food roil Horses and Cattle. — Take linseed caKop 
and pulverize or grind it v\) in the slmi)e of meal, and to every o'i 
lbs. of this ingredient, add 10 lbs. Indian meal; 2 lbs sulphiiret dl 
antimony; 2 lbs. ground ginger. 1:] lbs. of saltpetre, and 2 Ib.-i.l 
])owdered sulphur. Mix the whole thoroughly t<igether, ])Ut up in! 
neat boxes or jiackages for.'^ale or otherwise as de.'^ifed, and you wil 
have an article equal in Aalue to ''Tliorley's Food," or alniost unvl 
other preiiaration that can 1)e got up for *he ]»m'pose of fatteningl 
stock, or curing disease in every case when food or medicine caul 
be of any use whatever. This article can be- fed in any dcsircilf 
quantity, beginning with a few tablcs]M)()iifulrf at a time, for ;ij 
horse, mixing it with his grain, and in the same jiroportion Idi* 
smaller animals, repeating the dose and increasing the quantity m" 
the case may seem to require. 

Lotion for MANtiE. — lioil 2 o/.. tobacco in 1 (piart water ; strain ; 
add sulphur and soft soap, each 2 oz. 

For Strains and Swellincs.— Strong vinegar saturated withi 
common salt, used warm, is good for strains and reducing swel- 
lings. 1 oz. of Avliite vitriol ; 1 oz. of green copperas ; 2 teasj)()()ii- 
fnls of gunpowder, all pulverized together, and disscdved in l(piarti 
of softAvater, and n.sed ('(dd, riiltbing in ilioroiighlv, is one of thci 
best applications kiio^ni for rediK'iiig swellings. ' ' 

IIooj--l}orND Wash. -Siiirits turpentine,.! uy.. , (ar, 4 oz. ; whale-^ 
ml, 8oz. Mi.x, and api.Iv to the luiofs (ifleu. 



neiit 

1 six w( 

Poll 

)f watei 

iissolvci 

md botfl 

|loa])-sud 

ibove pii 

till the 

jletely 

Ifards li 

' T 

liiim ai 

)ut SOlll 

>n the \ 



FARMERS RECEIPTS. 



25 



Lor ; strain ;i 



To Toiir.HKN Hoofs. — Wash them froqiiontly in stronpj brine, and 
jtiiin brine upon the bottom.'', and soak a few minute."? each time. 

ScKATCHKS.— Cut ofF the liair close, and wash the legs in strong 
IsoiilHSuds or urine, or wash with warm vinegar saturated with 
Isalt, and afterwards dress over with a small quantity of hog's 
Ihird. 

CouGii. — Quit feeding musty hay, and feed roots and laxative 
[food. Sprinkle human urine on his fodder, or cut up cedar boughs 
land mi.\ with his grain ; or boil a small quantity of fla.x-seed, and 
liiiix it in a -nash of scalded bran, adding a few ounces of sugar, 
huolasscs, or honey. Administer lukewarm. If there should be 
[any appearance of heaves^ put a spoonful of ground ginger once 
nier day in his provender, and allow him to drink freely of lime 
Iwater. 

Si'MT OR Broken IToof.— Let the blacksmith bore two holes on 
leach r^i'l'j of the err ck or split ; pass long nails throiigh the holes, 
land clinch tight. After anointing with the hoof-bound liquid, it 
[will soon grow together. 

Colic Cuke. — Bleed freely at the horse's mouth ; then take J lb. 
iiw cotton, wrap it around a coal of lire, so as to exclude tiie air; 
Svlien it begins to smoke, hold it under his nose till he becomes 
Dasy. 

To CURE Distemper. — Take IJ ga's. of blood from the neck vein ; 
then adniinister sassafras oil, 1^ oz. Cure, S])ecdy and certain. 

Foi NDER CURED IN 24 IToURS. — Boil or steam stout oat-straw for 
Iialf-an-liour, then wrap it nround the horse's leg quite hot, cover 
llip with wet woollen rags to keep in the steam ;• in 6 hours renew 
• lie api)]ieation, take 1 gal. of blood from the neck vein, and give 
(piart linseed oil. lie may be worked next day. 
CuRi'! FOR Staggers.— Crive a mess twice a week, com])osed of 
irati, 1 gal.; sulphur, 1 tablespoonful ; saltjjetfe, 1 spoonful; 
)()iliiig siissafras tea, 1 quart; assafwtida, 1^ oz. Keep the horse 
frcni cold water for half a day afterwards. 

Ri.vg-Bone and Spavin. — Take sweet oil, 4 oz, ; spirits turpen- 
tine, '1 oz. ; oil of stone, 1 oz. Mix, and apply three times per day. 
If the horse is over i'our years old, or in any case when this is not 
Snnicieiit, in addition to it. you will fit a bar of lead just above it 
^viring the ends together, so it constantly wears uirnn the cnlarge- 
iient; and the two together will cure nine cases out of every ten, 
[n six weeks. 

Pom- Evil, and Fistula.— Common ])otash dissolved in \ pint 

)f water, 1 lb. ; add }, oz. belladonna extract, and 1 oz gum arable 

lissolved in a ji' tie water ; work all into a paste witli wheat flour, 

ind bottle up tight. Directions ; wash the sores well with Castile 

loai)-suds; then apply tallow all around the;n. Next, press the 

■hove piiste to the bottom of all the orifices ; repeat every two days 

[ill the callous fibrous base around the poll evil or fistula is com- 

letely destroyed ; put a piece of oil-dotli over the sores, and after- 

tiinls heal u]) with Sloan's Horse Ointment. 

Tame Horses.— Take finely-grated hor.se castor, oils of rho- 
liiim and cummin; keep them in separate bottles well-corked; 
iut some of the oil cummin on your hand, and a])|)roach the luuve 
}\\ the windy j.nde. He will tlien move toward you. Then rub 



26 



FARxMERS' RECEIPTS, 




if 



and attentive to the animal, and your control is certain. 

Best Remedy for Heaves.— Balsam of fir and balsam of copaiba, 
4 oz. each, and mix with calcined magnesia sulliciently thick to 
mak< it into balls j and give a middling-sized ball night and 
morning for a week or ten days. 

CiiKB FOR BoTS IN HoRSES.— Give the horse, first, 2 qnarts-of new 
milk, and 1 quart molasses ; 15 minutes afle. -ards, give 2 
«Miart3 very strong sage tes* ; 30 minutes after the tea, give 3 pints 
V'or enough to operate as pi, ysic), of curriers' oil. The molasses 
and milk cause the bots to let go tiieir hold, the tea puckers them 
up, and the oil carries them completely away. Cure certain, in 
the worst cases. 

Certain Rino-bone and Spavin Cure. — Venice turpentine and 
Spanish flies, of each 2 oz. ; cuphorbium and aqua-ammonia, of 
each 1 oz. ; red precipitate, i oz. ; corrosive sublimate, ^ oz. ; 
lard, IJ lbs. Pulverize all, and put into the lard ; simmer slowly 
over coals, not scorching or burning ; and pour off, free of sedi- 
ment. For ring-bone3, cat off the han-, and rub the ointment well 
into the lumps on<'e in 48 hours. For spavins, once in 24 -hours for 
3 mornings. Wash well previous to each application with suds, 
rubbing over the place with a smooth stick, to squeeze out a thick, 
yellow°matter. This has removed very large ring-bones. 

Bone Spavins, French Paste. — $300 Recipe. — Corrosive subli- 
mate, quicksilver, and iodine, of each 1 oz. Rub the quicksilver 
and iodine together ; then add the sublimate, and lastly the lard, 
rubbing them thoroughly. Shave off the hair the size of the bono 
enlargement , grease all around it, but not where the hair is 
shaved off, this prevents the action of the medicine, except on the 
spavin. Then rub in as much of the paste as will lie on a 3 cent 
piece, each morning, for 3 or 4 mornings. In from 7 to 8 days, , 
the whole spavin will come out ; then wash the wound with suds 
for an hour or so, to remove the poisonous effects of the paste ; 
afterwards heal up the sore with any good healing salve, or 
Sloan's Horse Ointraent, as per recipe above, keeping the sore 
covered while it is healing up 

Another very Valuable Recipe for Rino-Bon?!,— Pulverized 
cantharides, oils of sjdke, origanum, amber, cedar, Barbadoes tar, 
each 2 oz ; oil of wormwood, 1 oz. ; spirits 



of 



and British oil, 

turpentine, 4 oz. ; common potash, ^ oz. ; nitric acid,' o' oz. 
sulphuric acid, 4 oz. ; lard, 3 lbs. Melt the 'lard, and slowly add 
the acids ; stir well, and add the other articles, stirring till cold ; 
cliii off the hair, and apply by rubbmg and heating in. In about 
3 days, or when it is done ruiming, wash off with soap-suds, and ^ 
apply again. In old cases, it may take 3 or 4 weeks; but, m ■' 
recent cases, 2 or 3 applications have ci'red. 

Another. — Pulverized cantharides, oils of origanum and .irribnr, 
and spirits turptntine, of each 1 oz. ; olive oil, J oz. ; sulphuric 
acid, 3 drams; put all, except the acid, into alcohol ; stir the mix- J 
ture, add the acid slowly and continue to stir till the mixture ;| 
ceases to smoke ; then bottle for use. Apply to ring-bone or spavin 



with a S] 

i.'ito the 

in twent 

jilicu'tiori 

ring-Loni 

apart, w 

but does 

Splint 

phor, 2 o: 

by puttin 

of hot wa 

four or fii 

LlNIMEI 

8 OZ. ; cat 
1 oz. ; oil 
iron, and 

For Lo^ 
root, pow 
stirred inl 
pints of ra 

Scours . 
burnt into 
Dint of it ' 
daily. Tli 
cause, in n 

Enqlish 
monii\,.iinc 
f ach 1 A oz 

COLIO ci 

laudanum, 
ting it into 
obtained ir 
best povvd( 
For Peu 
tea; childr 

IjINIMEN' 

pulvorizod 
solved. Ir 

•^HOEING 

that lie \v( 
cause the 
shoe as fol 
down to tl 
is; he the 
twisted off 
Slaving, ag 

House J 
When fired 
then sot a 
head dowi 
dure a cop 
"lilt ho w 
•liis lialf ai 



farmers' receipts. 



21 



with a sponge tied on the end of a stick, as long as it is absorbed 
i.Mto tlic i)iirts ; twenty- four hours after, grease well with lard ; and 
ill twenty -four he irs more, wash off well with soap-suds. One ap- 
pliwtion is generally sufficient for spavins, but may need two ; 
ring-Lones, always two or three applications, three or four days 
apart, which prevents loss of hair. This will stop all lameness, 
but does .not remove the lump. 

Splint and Spavin Liniment. — Oil of origanum, 6 oz. ; gum cam- 
phor, 2 oz. ; iTiercurial ointment, 2 oz. ; iodine ointment, 1 oz. ; melt 
by putting all into a wide-mouthed bottfe, and setting it in a kettle 
of hot water. .£^ pply it to bone spavins or splints, twice daily, for 
four or five days, and a cure is guaranteed. 

Liniment for Swseny. — Alcohol and spirits turpentine, of each, 
8 oz. ; camphor-gum, pulverized cantharides, and cajjsicum, of each 
1 oz. ; oil of spike, 3 c?. ; mix. Bathe this liniment in with a hot 
iron, and a certain cure is sure to follow. 

Foil Looseness or ScouRiNa in Horses or Cattlr. — Tormentil 
root, powdered. Dose for a horse or cow, I to 1^ oz. It may be 
stirred into 1 pint of milk, and given; or it may be steeped in 1* 
pints of milk, then given from three to six times daily, until cured. 

Scours and Pin- Worms in Horses and Cattle. — Wliite-ash bark 
burnt into ashes, and made into a rather strong lye ; then mix i 
nint ot it with 1 pint warm water, and give all two or three times 
daily. This will certainly carry off the worms, which arc the 
cause, in most instances, of scours and looseness. 

Enolish Stable Lini?ibnt, vert stronq. — Oil of spike, aqua-am- 
moni%.and oil of turpentine, each 2 oz. ; sweet oil, and oil of amber, 
each li oz. ; oil of origanum, 1 oz. Mix. 

CoLio CURE KOK IIoRSES AND Pkhsons. — Spirits turpentine, 3 oz. ; 
laudanum, 1 oz. ; mix; and for a horse give all for a dose, by put- 
ting it into a bottle with half a pint of warm water. If relief is not 
obtained in an hour, repeat the dose, adding half an ounce of the 
best ])ovvdered aloes, well dissolved. Cure, certain. 

For Persons, a dose would be from 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls in warm 
tea; children or weak jjcrsons, less. 

Linimen'i koi? fifty cents per gallon. — Best vinegar, 2 quarts ; 
pulverized saltpetre, ^ lb. : mix, and set in a cool place till dis- 
solved. Invaluable for oln swellings, sprains, bruises, &c. 

JSiiOEiNO Houses. — A smith who shod for the hunt, and who said 
that ho woul(i have to shut up shop if a shoe was lost, as it migiit 
Oiuise the loss of a horse worth a thousand pounds, fastened the 
.shoe as follows:— As he drove the nails, he merely bent the points 
down to the hoof, without twisting them off, as the usual practice 
is; he then drovt the nails home, and clinched them. He then 
twisted off the nails, and filed them lightly to smooth them, thus 
having, as he remarked, a clinch and rivet to hold the nails. 

House Ail. — Make a slow fire ot old shoes, rags, herbs, &c. 
When fired a little, smother so r.s to make a great smoke and steam ; 
then set a barrel without heads, over the fire, and hold the horse's 
head down in the barrel, and smoke him well. This will soon pro- 
'bice a copious running at the nose, and ho will be so well pleased 
tliiit ho will voluntarily hold his iiead in the smoke. Continue 
this liiilf an liour or more daily, meanwhile yivc him potatoes and 



il 



!■( i: 



Nl 



28 farmers' receipts. 

wrvrm l)ran ma^^lios, Jind Rontlo pliysio, if tliorebe mnc.h costiv^npss 
vvliicli tlio laxfUivc foixl will not, ro'iiiove. If he has much fover treat 
liim. fi)r that. 

.Sai)I)i,k and riAUNE.ss Gau.h, .tc— Wliito lead an<l Imsoed oil, 
mixed as for j)aipt, is almost uiirivallod for healing saddle, har- 
ness, or collar galls and bruises. Try it, apjdying with a brush. 
It soon forms an air-tight coating and soothes the pain, powei- 
fiiily assisting nature. 

GiiKASE IlEKt..— Lye made from wood-ashes, and bou wlnte-oak 
))ark in it till it is quite sfron;/, both in lye and bark-ooze ; when 
it is cold, it is fit for use. Wash off the horse's legs with Castile 
soap ; when dry, apjdy tlie above lye with a swab fastened on a 
Ions; stick to keep out of his reach, as the smart caused by the 
api»lication might make him letliy without much warning ; but it 
is a sure cure, only it brings olf the hair. To restore the hair after 
the cure is elFi'cted, make and apply a salve ])y stewing elder 
bark in old bacon ; then form the salve by adding a little resin, 
according to the amount of oil when stewed, or ^ lb. resin to each 
pound of oil. 

VAi,uAnr,E Remeoy for TIeavbs. — Calcined magnesia, balsam of 
fir, i»alsam :opaiba, of eac'i 1 oz. ; spirits turpentine, 2 oz. ; put 
them all into 1 ]>int best cider '. inegar , give for a dose, 1 table- 
spoonfid in his feed, once a day for a week ; then every other day 
for 2 or 3 montlis. Wet his h'ty with brine, and also his other 
food. He will cough more at lirst, but looser and looser till cured. 

To DiSTiNoiiisir AND cuiiE Distemper. — Wet tip bran with ratlur 
strong lye; if not too strong, the Iiorse will eat it greedily. If 
they have the distemper, a free discharge from the nostrils, and 
a consequent cure, will be the result, if continued a few days ; but, 
if only a cold, with swellings of the glands, no change will be dis- 
covered. 

Remedy for Founder. — Draw about 1 gallon blood from tlm 
neck; then drench the horse with linseed oil, 1 quart ; now nili 
the fore-logs long and well with .water as hat as can be borne 
without scalding. 

Piivsic-TUij, FOR Horses. — Barbadocs nloes, from 4 to .') or fi 
dram.s (according to size and strength of tlie horse) ; tartrate of 
potassa, J. dram ; ginger and Castile soap, each, 2 drams ; oil of 
anise, or neppermint, 20 drops ; pulverize and make all into one 
ball, with thick gum solution. Feed by giving scalded J)ran 
instead of onts, for two days before giving the physic, and during 
its operation. 

Physic for Cattle.— -Take half only of the dose above for ft 
Iiorso, and add to it glauber-salts, 8 oz. ; dissolve all in gruel,! 
quart, and give as a drench. 




jun ; burn over the surface (»f the ground early in spring (new 
land is best), rake it w(dl. and sow the seeds : have a dry, mellow, 



FARMERS RECEIPTS. 



*i9 



ricli soil, aiul affor a sliowor, when tlic plants Tiavo got loaves the 
si/.c ufa (|iiart('r-(l()llar, trans]tlant asyoii would cabbage plants, 3J 
fi.et apart, and weed out carefully afterwards. Break off the 
suckers from the foot-stalks, as they appear; also the tops of 
the ])lant3 when they are well advanced, — say, about 3 feet high, 
— exce|)t those designed for soed, which should be the largest 
and best plants. The ripeness ot tobacco is known by small 
dusky spots .appearing on the leaves. The plants should then be 
cut near the roots, on tlie morning of a day of sunshine, and 
sliould lie singly to wither. When sufficiently withered, place the 
jilants in close heaps, under cover, to sweat 48 hours or more ; 
iliou hang them up under cover to dry. 

To PitKSEHVE Potatoes from Rot. — Dust over the floor of the 
liin with lime, and put in about G or 7 inches of potatoes, and dnst 
with lime as before, then more potatoes, using about 1 bushel of 
liuKi to 40 l)ughel3 of potatoes. The lime improves the flavor of 
tlie ]U)tat()os, and eflectually kills the fungi which causes the rot. 

An old veteran fjirmer, ,ith C3 years' experience, has success- 
fully fought the ytotatoe rot in the tjroiinci, as follows. He plants 
tlit'in in the latter )'art of April, or beginning of May, and in the 
(lid of the moon. When six inches high, they are plastered and 
dressed out nicely. Now for the secret. When blossoming, take 2 
piirts jtliister, and I j.nrt fine salt, mix well together, and put 1 
large spoonful of this compound as near the centre of each hill 
ns ]iossible. When ripe, take them out of the ground, have them 
dry when put in the cellar, and keep them in a dry, cool place. 

rACKiNfi Friits for Long DISTANCES. — Take a box of the proper 
size, soft paper, and sweet bran. Place a layer of bran on the 
l)ottom, then each bunch of grapes is held by the hand over a 
sheet of the jiaper ; the four corners of the paper are brought up 
1o tlie stalk anil nicely secured ; then laid on its side in the box, 
!ind so on until the fir.U layer is finished. Then dust o'n a layer of 
Itriin, giving tlie box a gentle shake as you proceed. Begin the 
sfcoud layer as the first, and so on until the whole is full. The 
bloom of the fruit is thus ]>reserved as fresh at the end of a 
jounuw of 500 miles as if they were newly taken from the tree. 
Never fails to preserve grapes, peaches, apricots and other fruit. 

To Sprout Onions. — Pour hot water on the seed, let it remain 2 
or 3 spoonds, and they will immediately sprout, and come up 
much earlier. 

To Revew Old OiicnARns.— Early in the spring, plough the 
entire orchard, and enrich the whole' soil with a good dressing of 
compost of manure, swamp-muck, and lime ; scrape off the old 
bark with a deck-scraper, or a sharp hoe ; apply half a bushel of 
lime, and the same of ground charcoal round each tree. Then 
apply diluted soft soai>, or strong soan-suds, on the trunks and 
limbs, as high as a man can reach. When the trees are in full 
bloom, tlu'ow over them a good proportion of fine slacked lime, 
and you will reap abundant fruits from your labors. 

To Dkstroy thr MoTii or Milt.er. — Dr. Waterman says, " I took 
two white dishes (because white attracts their attention in the 
night) or deep plates, and jdnced them on the top of the hives, 
and filled them about half-full of sweetened^ vinegar. The next 



so 



farmers' receipts. 



if 



morninf? I had about 50 millers caught ; the sccoml night T caught 
?0 more ; tlie thuu night, being cold, I did not get any ; the Kmrtn 
night being very warm, I caught about 400 ; tiie litth nigiit I got 

^^T^KeepMilk Swteet, and Sweeten Sour MiLK.-Put into the 
milk a small quantity of carbonate of niagnesui 

To make Cheap and Good Vinkuar.-To eight gallons of clear 
rain-water, add G quarts of iiiohisries ; turn the mixture into a 
clean, tight cask, shake it well two or three times, and add I pt. 
ot good yeast. Place the cask in a warm place, and in ten or 
fifteen days add a sheet of common wrappiug-paiK-r, smeared with 
molasses, and torn into narrow strips; and you will have good 
vinegar. The paper is necessary to form the " mother, or lito of 

the liquor. ^ ^ ,f • . 

Mr. Culley's Red Salve, to curb the Rot in Siieep.—Mix 4 
oz. ot the best honey, 2 oz. ot burnt alum reduced to powder, and 
^ a pound ot Armenian bole, with as much train or fish oil as will 
convert these ingredients into the consistence of a salve. The 
honey must first be gradually dissolved, when the Armenian bole 
must be stirred in ; afterwards the ahira and train-oil are to be added. 
To improve the Wool of .Sukei'. by Smkarinq. — Immediately 
after the sheep are jhorn, soak tlio roots of the wool that remains 
all over with oil, or butter, and brimstone ; and, 3 or 4 days after- 
ward, wash them with salt and water. The wool of next season will 
not be much finer, but the quiuitity will be in greater abundance. 
It may be depended upon, that the sheep will not be troubled with 
the scab or vermin that year, tklt water is a safp and eftect,ual 
remedy against maggots. 

To Mark Sheep without injury to the Wool, — To 30 spoonfuls 
of linseed oil, add 2 oz. of litiiarge, and 1 oz of lampblack; boil 
all together, and mark the sheep therewith. 

To Prevent the Fly in Turnips. — From experiments lately 
made, it has been ascertained that lime sown by hand, or <lis- 
tributed by a macliine, is an infallible protection to turnips against 
the ravages of tiiis destructive insect. It should be ai>plii'd as 
soon as tlie turnips come up, and in the same daily rotation in 
which they were sown. The lime should be slacked immediately 
before it is used, if the air be not sulficiently moist to rendi'r thaV 
operation unnecessary. 

Coloring for Cheese. — The coloring tor choeso is, or at le«5t 
should be, Spanish annotto; ])ut, as soon as coloring became 
general in this country, a color of an adulterated kind was exposed 
for sale in almost every shop. ' The weight of a guinea and a half 
of real Spanish annotto is sufficient f«r a cheese of fifty pounds' 
weight. If a considerable part of the cream of ihe night's milk 
be taken for butter, more coloring will be requisite. The leaner 
the cheese is, the more coloring it requires. The manner of using 
annotto is to tie up in a linen rag the quantity deemed sufficienr, 
and put it into ^ pt. of warm w'ater over night. This infusion is 
put into the tub of milk in the morning with the rennet infusion ; 
dipping the rag into the milk, and rubbing it against tlie palm of 
the hand as long as any color runs out. The yolk of egg will 
color butter 



1 



IJYEIIS AND ilLEACIIERS' IIECEIPTS. 



3l 



CoMPOHiTioN Fon DniviNO OUT Rats, etc. — Keep on hand a 
(|iiiintityof chloride of lime. The whole secret consists in scatter- 
\u^ it dry nil nround their hanntti and into their holes, and they 
^vill leave at once, or a lihcral decoction of coal tar placed in t'le 
<?iitraiice of their holes will do as well. 

How TOFOUM Sphinos. — The finest Springs can bo made by boring, 
wliicii is performed hy forcing an iron rod into the earlji by it's 
own weigiit, turning it round, and forcing it up and down by a 
81)ring-p()le contrivaiict. The water will sometimes spout up sevc- 
liii iuet above the surface. Lead jiipcs are i)ut down in the hole 
lifter the water is found. Depres!?ed situations, having a southern 
exposiiro, with rising ground towards the north, are the best 
Kjiuations in the United States or the (Janadas to find water. 

To Ik'iiN LiMK without a Kii-n. — Make a pyramidal pile of large . 
liiiK'stonos, Avith an arched furnace next the ground for putting in 
till', fuel, leaving a narrow vent or funnel at the top ; now cover the 
wiiole j)ile with earth or turf, in the way that charcoal heaps aro 
covored, and put in the fire. The heat will be more completely 
dill'iisecl tiu'ougii the i»ile, if the aperture in the top is partially 
closed. Produces a superior article ol lime. 

KvK Watku for II0KSE8 AND Cattlt?. — Alcoliol, 1 tablespoonful ; 
extract of lead, 1 toaspoonful ; rain water, j ])int. 

To Dkstuoy Moss on Thkes.— Paint them with white-wash made 
of (puck lime and wood ashes. 

To Protect FRriT-TUEES from attack of Mice, etc. — Tar, 1 
part ; tallow, 3 parts ; mix. Apply hot to the Ixirk of the tree with 
ii paint brusli. 

To Prevent Decay of Farai Lmplements. — When not in use, 
liavc them sheltered from xhe sun, wind, rain, and snow. By this 
moans, sleighs, waggons, carts, ploughs, threshing-machines, har- 
lowp, and the like, would last twice as long as they would if left in 
the opon air, swelling from moisture one week, and shrinking the 
next, from the influence of the sun and wind. 

Oiuxo OR Cleanino or.D Carriao:- OPS. — Ennm.'l leather-tops 
should be first washed with Castile soap and warm water, then 
oiled witl\ neat's foot oil ; or sweet oil and a coat of enamel varnish 
]iui on, the leather will look like new. Dashes may be cleaned in 
the same manner, but varnish color is not very beneficial to patent 
lenthcr ; however, when old and cracked, it may bo colored to 
improve the appearance. 



DYERS, BLEACHERS, AND CL0TTITERS' 
DEPARTMENT. 

DvEiNO. — It may bo necessary to remark, and I do it here once 
Sir all, that every article to be dyed, as well as everything used 
!il)out dyeing, should be perfectly clean. 

In the next jdace, tiie article to be dyed should be well scoured 
in soaj), nnd thou the soap rinsed out. It is also an advantage to 
dip tho article you wish to dye into warm water, just before "put' 



^ 



;!(. 



I i 



32 DYERS AND BLEACHERS' RECEIPTS. 

tine it into the alum or other preparation ; through neglect of this 
precaution, it is nothing uncommon to have the goods, or yam 
spotted, koft water should always be used if possible, and sua- 
ciont to cover the goods handsomely. 

As soon as an article is dyed it should be aired a l:ttle, then well 
rinsed, and afterwards hung up to dry. , , ^ u 

When dyeing or scouring silk or merino dresses, care should tie 
taken not to wring them ; for this has a tendency to wrinkle and 
break the silk. , , ., . , . 

In putting the dresses and shawls out to dry, that have been 
dyed, they should be hung up by the edge so as to dry evenly. 

CiiiiOMK Black.— Fon Woollen Goods.— For 5 lbs. of goods, 
blue vitriol, 6 oz. ; boil it a few minutes ; then dip the goods % ot 
an hour, airing' often ; take out the goods, and make a dye with 
logwood, 3 lbs.*; boil ^ hour ; dip I of an hour, and air the goods, 
and dip i of an hour more. WhsIi in strong suds. This will not 
impart any of its color in fulling, nor fade by exposure to the sun. 
Black on Wool.— Fori Mixtuhks.— For 10 lb* of wool, bichro- 
mate of potash, 4 oz. ; ground argal, :$ oz. ; boil together, and put 
in the wool ; stir well, and lot it remain in the dye 4 hours. Then 
take out the wool, rinse it slightly in clear water ; then make a 
rcw dye, into which put logwood, 3J lbs. Boil 1 hour, and add 
chamber-lye, 1 pt., and let the wool lie in all night. Wash in clear 
water. 

Steel mixed.— Dark.— Black wool, it may be natural or colored, 
10 lbs. ; white wool, 1^ lbs. Mix evenly together, and it will be 
beautiful. 

Sndpf Brown. — Dark for Cloth or Wool. — For 5 lbs. goods, 
camwood, 1 lb. ; boil it 15 minutes, then dip the goods for I of an 
hour; take out the goods, and add to the dye, fustic, 2 J lbs. ; boil 
10 minutes, and dip the goods ^ hour •, then add blue vitriol. 1 oz. ; 
copperas, 4 oz. ; dip again \ hour •, if not dark enough, add more 
copperas. It is dark and permanent. 

Wine Color. — For B lbs. goods, camwood, 2 lbs. ; boil 15 min- 
utes ; then dip the goods for i hour ; boil again, and dip i hour ; 
then darken with blue vitriol, 1 J oz. •, if not dark enough, add 
copperas, J oz. 

Madder Red, — To each lb. of goods, alum, 5 oz. ; red, or cream 
of tartar, 1 oz. ; put in the goods, and bring your kettle to a boil 
for ^ an liour ; then air them, boil ^ hour longer ; then empty your 
kettle, and fill with clean water ; put in bran, 1 pk. ; make it 
milk warm, and let it stand until the bran rises ; then skim ofF the 
bran, and put in madder, J lb. ; put in your goods, and heat slowly 
until it boils and is done. Wash in strong suds. 

Green. — On Wool or Silk, with Oak Bark. — Make a strong 
yellow dye of yellow oak and hickory bark in equal quantities. 
Add the extract of indigo, or cheraic (which see), 1 tablespoon at 
a time, until you get the shade of color desired. 

Green.— With Fustic— For each lb. of goods, fustic, 1 lb. : with 
alum, 3J oz. Steep until the strength is out, and soak the goods 
therein until a good yellow is obtained ; then remove the chips, 
and add extract of indigo or chemic, 1 tablespoon at a time, until 
tlic color suits. 



M 



l)VEn8 AND iBLEACIIERS* RECEIPTS. 



dS 



5 



Blue. — Quick Process. — For 2 lbs. of goods, alum, 5 oz. ; cream 
of tartar, 3 oz. ; boil the goods in this for 1 hour ; then throw the 
goods into warm water, which has more or less of tlie extract of 
indigo in it, according to the depth of color desired, and boil again 
until it suits, adding more of the blue if needed. It is quick and 
permanent. 

Stockino-yaun, on Wool to color. — Between a Blue and 
PirHi'LE. — For 5 lbs. of wool, bichromate of potash, 1 oz. ; 
Ilium, 2 oz.; dissolve them, and brmg the Avater to a boil, puttin 
in the wool, and boiling 1 hour; then ♦hrow away the dye. an^ 
make another dje with logwood chips, 1 lb.; or extract or log- 
wood, 2i oz. ; and boil 1 hour. This also works very prettily on 
silk. 

N.B. — Whenever you make a dye with logwood chips, either 
boil the chip.s ^ an hour and pour off the dye, or tie up the chips 
in a bag, and boil with the wool or other goods ; or take 2J oz. of 
the extract in place of 1 lb. of the chips ; this is less trouldo, and 
generally the better plan. In the above recipe, the more logwood 
that is used the darker will be the shade. 

kScARLET WITH CocniNEAL.—FoR Yahn or Cloth— For 1 lb. of 
goodf, cream of tartar, J oz. ; cochineal, well i»ulvcrized, \ oz. ; 
muriate of tin, 2i oz. ; then boil up the dye, and enter the goods; 
worL them bri.skly for 10 or 1.') minutes, after which boil 1^ hours, 
stirring the goods slowly while boiling; wash in clear water ana 
dry in the shade. 

Pink. — For S lbs. of goods, alum, 3 oz. ; boil and dip the goods 1 
hour; then add to the dye, cream of tartar, 4 oz ; cochineal, well 
l)iilverized, 1 oz. ; boil well, and dip the goods while boiling, until 



the color suits. 

Uranoe.— For 5 lbs 
4 oz. ; boil and dip 1 
boil 10 minutes, and dij) J hour ; and add again'to the dye,nradder, 



goods, muriate of tin, G tablespoons ; argal, 
hour ; then add to the dye, fustic, 2 J lbs. ; 



1 teacu,); dip again | hour. 



N.H. — Cochineal, in pli^ce of madder, makes a much brighter 
color, which should be added in small quantities until pleased. 
About 2 oz. 

Lao Red. — For .5 lbs. goods, argal, 10 oz.; boil a fow minutes : 
tlien mix fine ground lac, 1 lb., with muriate of tin, 1\ lbs.; and 
let them stand 2 or 3 hours; then add half of the lac to the argal 
dye, and dip i hour ; then add the balance of the lac, and dip again 
1 hour, keep the dye at a boiling heat, until the last half hour, 
when the dye may be cooled off. 

Purple.- For 5 lbs. goods, cream of tartar, 4 oz. ; alum, 6 oz. : 
cochineal, well pulverized, 2 oz. ; muriate of tin, ^ teacup. Boil 
the cream of tnrtar, alum, and tin, 15 minutes; then put in the 
cochineal, and boil .5 minutes ; dip the goods 2 hours ; then make 
a new dye with alum, 4 oz. ; Brazil wood, G oz.; logwood, 14 oz. ; 
muriate of tin, 1 teacup, with a little chemic; work again until 
pleased. 

iSiLVER Drab. — Lioht.— For 5 lt)s. goods, aium, 1 small teaspoon, 
and logwood about the same amount ; boil well together, th«n dip 
the goods 1 hour ; if not dark enough, add in equal quantities alum 
and logwood, until suited. * 



i 



w 



ii'. 






u 



DYERS AND BLEAdlEUs' RECEIPTS. 



I 



» 



Slate on Woollen or Cotton— With HKrx'n Baiik.— Boil tlin 
I) uk in nil iron kettle, skim out tin; cliipd utter it 1ms boiled sut- 
licienlly, and then fidd copperas to Hot the dye. If you wish it 
very dark, add inon; copperas. This is excellent for stockings. 

KxTUACT OK iNOKio Oil CiiicMir— To iMakk.— For good cheuiic or 
extract of indigo, takeot vitriol, | lb., and stir it into indigo, finely 
ground, 2 oz., continuing the stirring at first for J hour; now cover 
over, and stir 3 or 4 times daily for 2 or '.i days ; then put in a 
crumb of saleratus, and stir it up, and, it it foams, put in more and 
.stir, and add as long as it foiins; the saleratus neutralizes any 
excess ot acid ; then put into a glass vessel, and cork up tight. It 
improves by standing. Druggists keep this prepared. 

Wool.— To cleanhk.— Make a liquid of water, H parts, and urine, 
1 p\rt; heat it as hot as you can bear tiie hand in it; tlion jiut 
in the wool, a little at a lime, so as not to liavc it crowd; let 
ii remain in for 15 minutes; take it out over n basket to drain; 
then rinse in running water, and spread it out to dry ; thus 
]>roceed in the panic licpior; when it p'ts reduced, fill it up in 
liie same jjroportions, keeping it at hand heat all the time, not 
using any soup. 

Dauk OoLoiis.— To EXTRACT, AND INSERT LiGHT. — This rccIpc is 
calculated for carpet rags. In the first place, let the lags be 
washed clean ; the black or brown rags can be colored red, or 
jturi)le, at the option ot the dyer ; to do this, take, for every 5 
lbs. black or brown rags, muriate of tin, ^ lb.: and the lac, J 
lb., mixed with tiic same, as for the lac red ; (lip the goods in 
this dye 2 hours, boiling J ot the time; it not red enough, add 
more tin an<l lac. The goods can then be made a purple by 
adding a Utile logwood; be careful, and j)ut in but a small 
handful, as more can bo added it not enough. White rags 
make a beautiful appearance in a carpet, by tying them in tlie 
skein, and coloring them red, green, or purple ; gray rags will 
take a very good green ; the coloring will be in proportion to 
1.he darkness of mix. 

Black.— For 5 lbs. goods, sumach, wood and bark togctber, 
3 lbs. ; boil J hour, and let the goods steep 12 hours ; then dip 
in lime water, ^ hour ; then take out the goods, and let them 
drip an hour; now add to the sumach liquor, copperas, 8 oz., 
and dip another hour ; then run them through the tub of lime- 
water again for 15 minutes; now make a new dye with log- 
wood. 2^ lbs., by boiling 1 liour, and dip again 3 hours- now 
add l)ichromate ot potash, 2 oz., to the logwood dye, and dip 
one hour. Wash in clear cold wat"r, and dry in the shade. 
You may say this is doing too much. You cannot get a jier- 
manent black on cotton with less labor. 

Sky Blue.— For 3 lbs goods, blue vitriol, 4 oz. ; boil a f.'w 
minutes ; then dip the goods 3 hours, after which ])ass thefli 
through strong limc-wa'er. Yon can make this color a beautiful 
brown by putting the goods through a solution of prussiate of 
jtotash. 

Limk-Wateu and Strong Lime-Water.— For Colorino.— Lime- 
water is made l)y putting stone lime 1 lb., and strong lime- 
water, U 11)3., into a pail of water, slacking, stirring, and letting 



I 



mmm 



DYEItS AND BLEACHERS KECEIPTS. 



35 



thn 
sut- 
ili it 

e or 
K'ly 
jvcr 
n a 
and 
any 
ft 



put 
let 



it stand until it bocoiiios clear, then turn into a tub of water, in 
which (lip the goods. 

Hmib ow Cotton ou Linen. — With Loowood.— Tn all cases, if 
ni'W, lii"y should ho boiled in strong; soajj-suds or ■weak lyo, 



and rinsed clean ; tlien for 
hiolironuite of potash, ;{ II) 



co«,„.)n, T) 11)3., or linen, 3 lbs., take 
; put in the goods, and dip 2 hours ; 
then take out, rinse; make a dye with logwood, 4 lbs.; dip in 
this 1 hour, air, and let stand in the dye 3 or 4 hours, or till 
ilie dye is almost cohl ; wash out, and dry. 

IJlik on Cotton. — Without lioowoon. — For f) lbs. of rags, cop- 
peras, 4 oz. ; boil and dip IT) minutes; then dip in strong pnd-<, ami 
buck to tlie dye 2 or ;5 times ; tlien make a dye with ]trussiate of 
potash, 1 o7,. ; oil of vitriol, 5 tablespoons; bod 'M minutes, and 
rinse ; then dry. 

GitKKN. — If tiie cotton is new, boil in weak lye or strong suds ; 
then wash, and dry ; give the cotton a dip in tiie home-made blue 
dye-tub until blue enough is obtained to make the green as dark 
as reipiired, take out, dry, and rinse the goods a little; then make 
a dye with fustic, i} lb. ; logwood, .'J oz., to each 1 lb. of goods, by 
boiling the dye 1 hour ; when cooled so as to bear the hand, put in 
the cotton, move briskly a few minutes, and let lie in 1 hour ; take 
Dut, and let it thoroughly drain ; dissolve, and add to the^dye, for 
caeli lb. of cotton, blue vitriol, ^ oz., and dij) another hour ; wring 
out, and let dry in the shade. liy adding or dinnnishing the log- 
wood and fustic, any shade of green may be obtained. 

Vkli.ow. — For 5 lbs. of goods, sugar of lead, 7 oz. ; dip the 
(roods 2 hours; make a new dye with bichromate of potash, 4 oa, ; 
ilip until the c(dor suits, wring out, and dry ; if not yellow enough, 
repeat the operation. 

OitANOK. — For 5 lbs. of goods, sugar of lead, 4 oz. ; boil a few 
minutes, and when a little cool put in the goods, dip 2 hours, wring 
out; make anew dye with bichromate of potash, 8 oz. ; madder, 
2 0/,. ; dip until it suits ; if the color should be too red, take off a 
small sample, and dip it into lime-water, when the choice can be 
taken of the samjtle dipped in the lime or the original color. 

IlKi). — Take muriate of tin, J of a tea-cup; add sulficient water 
to cover the goods well, bring it to a boiling heat, putting in the 
gooils 1 hour, stirring often; take out the goods, and empty the 
kettle, and put in clean water, with nic-wood, 1 lb., steeping it for 
^ hour, at hand heat; then put in the goods, and increase the heat 
tor 1 hour, not bringing to a boil at all, stir the goods, and dip an 
hour as before ; wash without soap. 

MuiuATE OF Tin. — Tin Liquor. — If druggists keep it, it is best 
to i)urchnse of them already made ; but if you prefer, ))roceed as 
follows ; Get at a tinner's shop, block tin ; put it in a shovel, and 
melt it. ■ After it is melted, pour it from the height of 4 or 5 feei 
into a pail of clear water. The object of this is to have the tin in 
small particles, so that the ncid can dissolve it. Take it out of 
the water and dry it ; then put it into a strong glass bottle ; pour 
over it muriatic acid, 12 oz. ; then slowly add sulphuric acid, 8 oz. 
The acid should be adde;1 about a tablespoon at a time, at inter- 
vals of f) or 8 minutes ; for if you add it too rapidly you run the 
risk of breaking the bottle l)y !ieat. After yon have all the acid 



m-. 



V 



^ 



it 



56 



DYERS AND bleachers' RECEIPTS* 



b 



\i •' 



1 '■ 



in, let the bottle stand until the ebullition subsides ; then stop it 
up with a bees'-wax or glass stopper, and set it avvay ; and it will 
keep good for a year or more, or will be fit for use in 24 hours. 

Green.— Very Handsome with Oak Bark.— For 1 lb. of silk, 
yellow oak bark, 8 oz. ; boil it i hour ; turn off the liquor from 
the bark, and add alum, C oz ; let stand until cold ; while this dye 
is being made, color the goods in the blue dye-tub, a light blue ; 
dry, and wash ; then dip m the alum and bark dye ; if it does not 
take well, warm the dye a little 

Grken ou Yellow— On Silk un Wool, in Five to Fifteen 
Minutes.— For 5 lbs. of goods, black oak bark or peach leaves, J 
peck ; boil well; then take out the bark or leaves, and add muri- 
ate of tin, .J teacup, stirring well ; then put in the goods and 
stir them round, ana it will dye a deep yellow in from 5 to 15 
minutes, according to the strength of the bark ; take out the 
goods, rinse, and ary immediately. 

N.B.— For a gi-een, add to the above dye extract of indigo, or 
chemic, 1 tablespoon only at a time, and work the goods 5 min- 
utes, and air; if not sutncientjy dark, use the same amount of 
chemic as oetore, and work a^r>in until it suits. 

Mulberry. — For 1 lb. of suk, alum, 4 oz. ; dip 1 hour ; wash 
oat, and make a dye with Brazil wood, 1 oz ; and logwood, \ oz. ; 
by boiling together; dip in this ^ hour, then add more Brazil 
wood and logwood, in equal proportions, until the color is dark 
enougn. 

Black. — Make a weak dye as you would for black on woollens, 
work the goods in bichromate of potash, at a little below boiling 
heat, then dip in the logvood in the came way ; if colored in tiie 
blue vitriol dye, use aboui the sam? heat. 

Spots— To Remove and Prevent when Coloring Black on 
Silk or Woollen. — N.B. In dyeing silk or wocUen goods, if they 
should become rusty or spotted, all that is necessary is to make a 
weak lye, and have it scalding hot, and put your goods in for 1.') 
minutes; or throw some ashes into your dye, and run youi* goods 
in it 5 minutes, and they will come'outa jel black, and an even 
color. 

Light Chemic Blue.— For cold water, 1 gal.; dissolve alum, A 
tablespoon, in hot water, 1 teacup, and add to it; then add 
ciiemic. 1 teaspoon at a time, to obtain the desired color; the 
more chemic that is used, the darker will be the color. 

Purple.— For 1 lb. of silk ; having first obtained a light blue by 
dipping in the home-made blue dye-tub, and dried, dip in alum, 4 
oz. ; to siiiricient water to cover, when a little warm ; if the color 
is not full enough, add a little chemic. 

Yellow.— For 1 lb. of silk, alum, 3 oz. ; sugar of lead, | oz. •, 
immerse the goods in the solution over night; take out, drain, and 
make a new dye with fustic, 1 lb. : dip until the required color is 
obtained 

N.B.— The yellow or green, for wool, works cqual'fy well on silk. 

OiiANor,. — Takcannotto and soda, and add in equal, quantities, 
according to the amount of goods and darkness of' the color 
wanted, say 1 oz. of each, to each pound of silk, and repeat as 
desired. 



nioisl 



DYERS AND btEACHERS' RECEIPTS. 



^7 



the 



Crimson.— For 1 lb. of silk, alum, 3 oz. ; dip at hand-heat, 1 
hour : take out and drain, while making a new dye, by boiling, 
10 minutes, cochineal, 3 oz. ; bruised nut-galls, 2 oz ; and cream 
of tartar, \ oz., in one pail of water ; when a little cool, begin to 
dip, raising the heat to a boil, continuing to dip 1 hour ; wash, and 
dry. 

Cinnamon ob Brown on Cotton and Silk — By a New Process 
—Very Beautiful. — Give the goods as much color, from a solution 
ot blue vurol, 2 oz., to water, one gal., as it will take up in dipping 
15 minutes ; then run it through lime-water ; this will make a 
beautiful sky-blue, of much durability ;' it has now to be run 
through a solution of prussiate of potash, 1 oz., to water, 1 gal. 

Aniline Black on Silk or Cotton. — Water, 20 to 30 parts ; chlo- 
rate of potassa, 1 part ; sal ammoniac, 1 part ; chloride of copper, 1 
part i aniline, 1 part ; and hydrochloric, 1 part ; previously mixed 
together. The fabric or yarn is dried in ageing rooms at a low 
temperature for 24 hours and washed afterwards. 

To Color Straw Hats or Bonnets a Beautiful Slatb. — First, 
soak the bonnet in rather strong warm suds for 15 minutes to 
remove sizing or stiffening ; then rinse in warm water, to get out 
the soap ; now scald cudbear, 1 oz., in sufficient water to cover 
tlie hat or bonnet ; work the bonnet in this dye, at 180'* of heat, 
until you get a light purple ; now have a bucket of cold water, 
blued with the extract of indigo, J oz., and work or stir the 
!)onnot in this, until the tint pleases ; dry, then rinse out with cold 
water, and drv again in the shade. If you get the purple too deep 
in shade the nnal' slate will be too dark. 

To Bleach Straw Bonnets. — Take a common plate, fill it with 
water, set a small piece of sheet iron, with the ends bent down to 
raise the top above the water, place in the middle of the tin plate, 
on which you must place a small piece of brimstone, set it on fire, 
and cover it over tight with a large bell or large tumbler or bowl 
that will just shut down close within the rim of the plate ; at first 
raise the cover a little to admit a current of air to cause the sul- 
phur to burn, until you fill the whole with a white vapor ; then 
shut down tight about len minutes, and the water will absorb the 
sulphurous acid gas, with vhich straw hats or wooden articles 
are washed over to bleach in the most approved manner. It will 
also remove fruit and vegetable stains from dress. 

Washing Fluid— Take 1 lb. sal soda, ^ lb. good stone lime, and 
f) qts. of water ; boil a short time, let it settle, and pour off the 
clear fluid into a stone jug, and cork for use ; soak your white 
clothes over night in simple water, wring out and soap wristbunds, 
collars, and dirty or stained places ; have your boiler half filled 
with water Just beginning to boil, then put in one common teacup- 
ful of fluid, stir and put in your clothes, and boil for half an hour, 
then rub lightly through one suds only, and all is complete. 

Chip or Straw Hats or Bonnets may be dyed black by boiling 
them three or four hours in a strong liquor oi log^^vood, adding a 
little copperas occasionally. Let the bonnets remain in the liquor 
nil night ; then take out to dry in the air. If the black is not satis- 
fiictoiv, dve again after drying. Rub inside and out with a sponge 
moistened in nne oil ; then block, lied Dye. — IJoil ground Brazil- 



ii« 



DYEllS AND liLEACIIERS UECEU'TS. 



wood in a lye of potash, and boil your straTv hats, &;c., in it. Blue 
y;y^._Take a siitricient ijuantity'of potash lye, 1 lb. of litmus or 
lacmus, ground : make a decoction and then put in the straw, and 
boil it. 

Dyes for Hats.— The ordinary bath for dyeing hats, employed 
by the London manufacturers, consists, for twelve dozen, of 144 
lbs. logwood ; 12 lbs. of green suljhate of iron or copperas ; 7^ lbs. 
verdigris. The logwood having lieeii introduced into the copper, 
and digested for some time, the copperas and verdigris are added 
in successive quantities and in the above proportions, along with 
every successive tv/o or three do?;ens of hats suspended upon the 
dripping machine. Each set of hats, after being e.xposcd to the 
I^atli with occasional airings during forty minutes, is taken off the 
pegs, and laid out ui)on the ground to be more completely black- 
ened by the peroxydizemcnt of the iron with the atmospheric oxy- 
gen, in three or four hours, the dyeing is completed. When fully 
dyed, the hats are Avell washed in running water. 

Watkiu'Roof Stipfenixo for Hats. — Mix 18 lbs. " shellac witli 1 h 
lb. of salt of tartar (carbonate of j)otash), and 5} gals, water. 
Those materials are to be put in a kettle, and made to boil gradu- 
ally till the lac is dissolved, Avhen the liquid will become as clear 
as water, without any scum upon the top, and \i left to cool, will 
have a tiiiu crust upon the surface, of a whitish cast, mixed with 
the light impurities of the gum. When Ibis skin is taken off, the 
hat body is to be dipped into the mixture in a cold state, eo as to 
absorb as much as possible of it ; or it may be applied with a brush 
or sponge. The hat body, being thus stiffened, may stand till it 
becomes dry, or nearly so ; and after it has been brushed, it must 
be immersed in very dilute sulphuric or acetic acid, in order to 
neutralize the potash, and cause the shellac to set. If the hats are 
not to be napped immediately, they may be thrown into a cistern 
of pure water, and taken out as wanted. 

Method of Bleachino Straw. — Dip the .«!traw in a solution of 
oxygenated muriatic acid, saturated with potash. (Oxygenated 
muriate of lime is much cheaper.) The straw is thus rendered 
very white, and its flexibility is increased. 

JJr-EAcniNO Straw Goof)S. — Straw is bleaclied by simidy expos- 
ing it in a closed chamber to the fumes of burning sult)hiir, an old 
flour barrel is the apparatus most used for the purpose l)y milliners, 
a fiat stone being laid o'l the ground, the sulphur ignited tliereon, 
and the barrel containing the goods to be bleached turned over it. 
The goods should be previously washed in pure water. 

Varni.sit for FADKn RuuBEu (5ooi)S. — Black Japan varnish diluted 
T/it'- .1 little linseed oil. 

'ii» RLEAcn LtNEX. — Mix common bloaching-powder, in tlie pro- 
portion of 1 lb. to a gallon of water ; stir it occasionally for three 
liays, let it settle, and pour it off clear. Then make a lye of 1 \h. 
of soda to 1 gallon of boiling soft w.atcr, in which soak the linen 
for 12 hours, and boil it half an hour; next soak it in the 
bleaching liquor, made as above ; and lastly, wash it in the usual 
manner 

Discolored linen or muslin m.ay bo restored ))y putting a portion, 
of bleaching licjuor intii the tub wherein the articles are soaking. 



parji 
A? 
blue 
baih 
Kuh 
it slo 
watc 
If )h 
proc( 
A: 

a kei 

suli.m 

sliori 

out ( 

perm 
Aa 

acid, 

HhadF 

10 

Holidl 

by w| 

Hoiin 
AfJ 

pota;! 
uailil 



■ 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS' RECEIPTS. 



3Sa 









Aniline Green on Silk. — locUne green or night green dissolves 
easily in wann water. For a liquid dye, 1 lb. may bo dissolved in 
1 ^ii\. alcohol, and mixed with 2 gals, water, containing 1 oz. 
tsulphiiric acid. 

To Dye Aniline Scarlet.— For every 40 lbs. of goods, dissolve 
f) lbs. wliitc vitriol (sulphate of zinc) at 180' Pah., place the goods 
into this bath for 10 minutes, then add the color, prepared by boil- 
ing for a few minutes, 1 lb. aniline scarlet in 3 gals, water, stir- 
ring the same continually. This solution has to be filtered bclbre 
])eing added to the bath. The goods remain in the latter for 15 
:uinutcs, when they have become browned and must be boiled for 
another half hour in the same bath after the addition of sal am- 
moniac. The more of this is added the deeper will be the shade. 

IJisMARCK Brown fou dyeing. — Mix together 1 lb. Bismarck, 5 
gills, water, and 3 lb. sulphuric acid. This paste dissolves easily 
in hot water and may be used directly for dyeiug. A liquid dye 
may be prepared by making the bulk of the above mixture to 2 
gals, with alcohol. To dye with the above mixture, sour with 
sul])liuiic acid; add a quantity of suli)hate of soda, immerse the 
wool, and add the color by small portions, keeping the tempera- 
ture under 212' Fah. Very interesting shades may be developed 
by combining the color with indigo paste or picric acid. 

To Dye Wool with Aniline Green. — For wool, prepare two 
baths, one containing the dissolved dye and a quantity of carbon- 
;ilo of soda or borax. In this the wool is placed, and the temjjera- 
lurc is raised to 212' Fah. A greyish green is produced, which 
must be brightened and fixed in a second bath of water 100- Fah., 
to which some acetic acid has boen added. Cotton requires pre- 
piiralion by sumach. 

Aniline Blue. — To 100 lbs. of fabric dissolve 1^ lbs. analine 
blue in 3 qts. hot alcohol; strain through a filter and add it to a 
l)iiih of 130* Fah. ; also 10 lbs. glaul)ur salts, and 5 lbs. acetic acid. 
Knt(!r the goods and handle iLem well for 20 minutes; next heat 
it slowly to 200' Fah. ; then add 6 lbs. sulphuric acid diluted with 
water. Lot the whole boil 20 minutes longer, then rinse and dye. 
li" tlic aniline be added in two or three ])roportions during the 
process of coloring, it will facilitate the evenness of the color. 

Aniline Red. — Enclose the aniline in a small muslin bag, have 
a keltic (tin or brass) filled with moderately hot water and rub the 
swl)stanc(' out. Then immerse the goods to be colored, and in a 
short time they are done. ltim])rove3 the color to wring the goods 
out of strong soap suds liefore putting them in the dye. This is a 
permanent color on wool or silK. 

Aniline Violet and Purple. — Acidnlate the bath bysulpla-.ic 
acid, or use sulphate of soda ; both these substances render the 
Kliiide bluish. Dye at 212' Fah. To give a fair middle shade to 
10 lbs. of wool, a quantity of solution equal to A to ij ozs. of the 
solid ilye will be required. The color of the dyed lubric is improved 
by washing in soap and water, and then passing through a buth 
soured by 8uli)huric acid. 

Aniline Black eor Dveino. — Water 20 to 30 parts, chlorate of 
polassa 1 part; sal ammoniac 1 part; chloride >( copper 1 part; 
aniline hydrochloric acid, of each 1 part, iireviously mixed together. 



38^. 



DYERS AND BLEACIIEUS S RECE[PTS. 



,» 



III 



ty M 



UU 



Tt i3 os?!ontinl lliat llio ])i*oparatlnn nlionld bo arid, nnd the nioroi 
acid it, is t!u) niniv rapid will Itc lli('producti(.ii of Uie black,-! ; if 'oo 
iniicii K<V, it tnay iiijiiro llie fabric. 

Nkw Moiidant roil Anilixk CoiiOns. — Tmracrsc the goods for snrao 
hours in a batli of rohl water in whicli* cldoridc or acetate of zinc 
has hocn dii^solvcd unlil t!ie solution siiows 2^ JJautnu ; for the 
wool llie mordanting liath '^I'onld be at a boiling heat, and tlie 
goods slioidd also Ix; jilaccd " i a Avarin bath of tannin DO ' Fah., for 
half an hour. In dyeing, a hi.t solntion of tlie color :n ist be nsed 
to wiiicli shoukl )>e' added, in tlie cau» of tlie cotton, some chloride 
<jf zinc, and, in tiie case of the wool, a certain amount of tannin 
.suliition. 

To l)y\-. Srr-K oii Wool ]\rAf!r:NT.A.. — SufTicicnt water to cover, wllh- 
OMt dillienlly, tlie fibrie to be dyed, is brongh' to a teraperat'ire 
■,i' about 17()' Fall,; a sufTieient quant:!y of tlie dye is added, and 
i'olloweil by the immersion of the goods, which sliould be moved 
aljout to iirevent streaks. About half an hour's immersion issnfh- 
cient. Jlall'an oiuico of the crystals should give a fair shade to 
10 11)3. of wool. 

To Dvio Amunr Yklt,ow.— This color is slightly soUible in 
water, and for dyer's use may be used directly fjr the preparation 
ot the ))atli dye, but is best used by dissolving 1 lb. of dye in 2 
gals, alcohol. Temperature of batli should be under 200' Fah. 
Til!' color is much improved and brightened by a trace of sulphuric 
acid. 

To DvK WITH Alkali llrxK a.vd Xiciiolson's IIlue. — Dissolve 1 lb. 
of llio dye in .lo gals, boiling water, add this by sirtall portions to 
the dye bath, which should 'be rendered alkaline by borax. The 
i'abric should be well worked about lietwccn each addition of the 
color. The temperature must be kept under 212 Fahr. Tod':'velop 
llie (iolor wash with water and pass through a bath containing 
sulphuric acid. 

A.MLiNE BuowN Dyk.— Dissolve 1 lb. of the brown in 2 gals, of spi- 
rit, specific gravity 8200, add a sufhcicut rpiantity to the dye bath, 
and immerse the fabric. Wool possesses a very strong allinity for 
lliis color and no mordant is required. 

To E.xTi!,vcT OilSpot.s from Finished Goods. —Saturate the spot 
with benzine, then place two pieces of very soft lilotting paper 
under and two upon it, prcs3 well Avith a hot iron, and the greaso 
will be absorbed. 

To PijKSKnvK Goods AND CLornivn fuom Mildew.— Alum, 2 lbs., 
disolved in GO lbs. water, blue vitriol, 2 lbs., dissolved in 8 lbs. of 
waier, to Avliich is added gelatin<> 1 lb., dissolved in:53 lbs. of water, 
ae(!tateof lead, ,] lb. dissolved in .T) Uis. of water., T!ie solutions 
areall hot, and separately mi.xed, with the exception of the vitriol 
which is added. 

To IJlkacu Feathrus.— Place the feath'^rs from ?. to 4 hours in a 
tepid dijutesolulion of bichromate of potassa, to which, cautiouslv, 
s une nitric acid has been added, (a small quantity onlv). To 
remove a greeaisli hue in luci>d by this solution, iilacc them in a 
dilute stdulion of sulphurous acid, in water, whereiiy the feitlhers 
become iierfectly while au<l bleached. 

To (JLEAX Straw IIonnkts.— First brush them with soap and 
water, then with a soliilion of oxalic acid. 



rer» 

W()( 

.1. t 
iiiin 

]lIiS 

b'i.( 



DYERS AND BLEACHERS' RECEIPTS. 



39 



and 



nf.Ariv Vahmsii for Chip and Straw IIat.s. — Best alcohol, 4 oz. ; 
]iiilveri/oii l)lat'k seuliiig-wax, 1 oz. ; put them into a jiliiiil, niid 
put iliephiiil into a warm place, stirring or shaking occasiowally 
until tlie wax is dissolved Apjtly it When warm before the lin; or 
in the sun. This makes a beautiful gloss. 

Easy Method op i'heventin(J Moths in Tung on ■WoOllenc. — 
Sprinkle the furs or woollen stufTs, as well as the drawers or boxes 
in wliich they are kept, ^vith spirits of turpentine, the unpleasant 
scent of which will speedily evaporate on exposure of the stuffs to 
tlio air kSome persons place sheets of paper, moistened with 
Rpu'its of turpentine, over, under, or between pieces of cloth, &c., 
and find it a very effectual method. Many woollen drapers put 
bits of camphor, the size of a nutmeg, in papers, on different parts 
of the shelves in tfieir shojts , and as they brush their cloths every 
two, three or four months, this keeps tiiem free from moths ; and this 
should he done in boxes where furs, &c., are i>ut. A tallow candle 
is fre(|iiently put within eacli inulf when laid by. 

(jL«tTiiiNO Uknovator. — Soft water, 1 gal. ; inalic a strong decoc- 
tion of logwood by boiling the extract with the water Strain , 
when cool, add 2 oz.gum arable in powder ; bottle, cork well, and 
set aside for use ; clean the coat well from grease and dirt, and 
np|)ly the above licpnd with a sponge evenly. Dilute to suit tiie 
\:()Un; and hang in the shade to d^y ; afterwards brush the nap 
; nidolh, and it wUl look like new 

WATEitPiiooFi.NO I'oii I'oiioi's Cloth. — DIssolvc 2^ Ibs. alum in 4 
gals, water; di.sstdve also in a separate vessel the same weight of 
ui'ctate of lead in the same (juantity of water. When both are well 
dissolved, mix the solutions together ; and, when the sulphate of 
h'ad lesidtiiig from this mixture has lieen precipitated to the bottom 
of llie vessel in tiie form of a ])owder, pour off the solution, and 
filuiige into it the fabric to be ren<lered waterproof. Wash and 
nih it well during a few minutes, and hang it in the air to dry. 

'IV, Remove (jiitEASE. — Acpia anmionia, 2 oz. ; soft water, 1 (piart ; 
.s.'dtpetre, 1 teaspoonful ; shaving soap in shavings, 1 oz. ; mix altoge- 
ther; dissolvetiie soap well, and any grease or dirt that cannot be 
Ku-.oved with'this i)reparation, nothing else need be tried for It 

WATEurRooFiNO FOR Ci,oTiiiNO — Boiled oil, J51bs ; bee's-wax, 1 
it'. ; ground litliarge, ]'A lbs. ; mix, and Apjily with a lu-iish to tiie 
!iiii<le_ j.rcviously stretched against a wall or a table, previously 
well washing and drying each article before appNying the comi>osi- 
t.on. 

To Renew ()i,d Fii.ks. — Unravel and put them in a tut), cover 
lluir With cold water, let them remain one hour; dip them up and 
<lowri bi t do not wring ; hang up to drain, and iron while very 
dair.i and they wdi look l)eautiful 

. 1)VES FOR 1< i;r£. — /'or bl(i<k, u.se the hair i\y(^ dcscrd)od in these 
receipts. Jiroirn, use tinctuie of logwood, linl^ ground Ihazil- 
wood H lb ; water, ].] (piarts ; cochineal,,] oz. ; boil the ]5razil-wood 
.1. tt.i wj ter one hour ; strain and add the coen.neai ; boil tifteen 
minutes tSoir/et ro/or, boil ij oz. saffron in i] pint of water, and 
jKiHS ov{ I the work befori! afiplying the red Ji/tir, logwood, 7 oz ; 
b'i.<' xiii.ol, I oz ; water, 22 oz ; Itoil. J'lirjih'^ logwocxl, 11 oz , 
i.lt.iii . oz water, 2'J oz (Jrcen, strong vinegar, I] pints , best 



40 



druggists' receipts. 



verdigris, 2 oz. ; ground fine; sap green, i oz. ; mix all together and 

Potter's Invisihlk Watkuimioofino for CLoTiiiNa.— Imbue the 
cloth on the wrong side with a solution of isinglass, alum, and soap 
dissolved in water, forming an emulsion of a milky thickness; 
apply with a brush, rubbing in well. When dry, it is -brushed on 
the wrong side against the grain, and then gone over with a brush 
dipped in water ; afterwards brushed down smootli. 

To RAISE A Nap on Cloth.— ^'lean tho irticle well; soak it in 
cold water for half an hour ; put it on a board, aild rub the thread- 
bare parts with a half-worn hatter's card filled with Hocks, or with 
a teazle or a prickly thistle until a nap is raised ; then lay the nap 
the right way with a hatter's brush, and hang uj) to dry. 

Black Reviver for (^LOTH.—Mruised galls, 1 lb.; logwood, 2 lbs. ; 
green vitriol, ^ lb.; water, 5 quarts; boil two hours; strain, and it 
is ready for use. 



ii: 









DRUGGISTS' DEPARTMENT. 

Remedy for Diphtheria. — The treatment consists in thorougldy 
swabbing the back of r.iie mouth and throat with a wash made 
thus : Table salt, 2 drams ; black pepper, golden seal, n'trate of 
potash, alum, 1 dram each ; mi.Y and pulverize ; put into a teacup 
half full of water ; stir well, and then fill up with good vinegar. 
Use every half hour, one, two, and four hours, a.^ reccjvery pro- 
gresses. The patient may swallow a Utile each timo. Apply 1 oz. 
each of spirits turpentine, sweet oil, and aqua-am' nonia, mixed, 
every hour to the whole of the throat, and to the brtast bone every 
fbiir hours, keeping fiannel to the part. 

iloLLo way's Ointment and Pills. — Butter, 22 o". ; beeswax, 3 
oz. ; yellow rosin, 3 oz. ; melt; and vinegar of can:harideg, 1 oz. 
evaporate; and add Canada bal.sam, 1 oz. ; oil of mace, .] dram; 
biilsam of Peru, 15 drops. I'i//s : Aloes, 4 parts ; myrrh, jalap, 
and ginger, of each 2 parts ; mucilage to mix. 

Ahernethy's Pills.— Each itill contains 2 grains of blue pill and 
3 grains compound extract of colocynth. 

WORM Lozenges.— Powdered lump sugar, 10 oz. ; starch, 5 oz. ; 
mix with mucilage; and to every ounce add 12 grai;is c.ilomel; 
divide in 20 grain lozenges. Dose, two to six. 

Soothinq Syrup.— Alcohol,ess.of peppermint, castor oil, of each, 
1 oz. ; mix ; add oil of anise, .} dram ; magnesia, 00 grains ; pulve- 
rized ginger, 40 grains ; water, 2 oz. ; white sugar to form a syrup. 

Soothing Syrup.- Take 1 lb. of honey ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of 
paregoric, and tUc same of oil of anise scod: add enough water 
to make a thick syrup, and bottle. For children teething, dose, 
teaspoonful occasionally. 

Infant's Sy.ujp.— The syrup is made thus ; 1 lb. best box raisins; 
J ounce of anise seed ; two sticks licorice ; split the raisins, pound 
the anise seed, and cut the licorice fine; add to it .S quarts of rain 
water, and boil down to 2 ((uarts. Feed three or four times a day, 
U8 nuich as the child will willingly drink. The raisins are to 



grami 
of usi| 
objecj 



Di UGUISTB' RECEIPTS. 



41 



Btrengthen', the anise is to expel the wind, and the licorice as a 
physic. 

Brandeth's Pills. — Take 2 lbs. of aloes, 1 lb. of gamboge, 4 o?;. 
of extract of colocynth, j lb. of Castib soap, 3 fluid drams of oil of 
peppermint, and I fluid dram of cinnamon. Mix, and form into 
pills. 

Perhy Davis' Pain KiLLEn. — Myrrh, IJ o?.. ; guaiacum '•esin, 1 
oz. ; camphor, ^ oz. ; red i)epper, oil anise, each, 1 drain ; dilute 
alcohol, 2 j»ints; mix. Stand seven days, and filter. 

Faiinestock's Vbrmifuob. — Castor oil, oil of worm seed, each 1 
oz. ; oil anise, ^ oz. : tincture myrrh, ^ dram ; oil turpentine, 10 
minims ; castor oil, 2 drops ; mix. 

Swaim's Vermifuoe. — Wormseed, 2 or. ; valerian, rhubarb, pink- 
root, white agaric, of each 1^ oz. ; boil in sufficient water to yield 
;{ quarts of decoction ; and add to it 10 drops of oil of tansy and 45 
(lro}is of oil of cloves, dissolved in a quart of rectified spirits. Dose, 
\. tablespounful at night. 

Avkr's Ciieruy PEOToRAii. — Take 4 gruins of acetate of morphia ; 
2 fluid drams of tincture of bloodroot; 3 fluid drams each of anti- 
nionial wine and wine of ipecacuanha, and 3 fluid oz. of syrup of 
wild cherry. Mix. 

Brown's Bronciiial Troches.— Take 1 lb. of pulverized extract 
of licorice; 1^ lb. of pulverized sugar ; 4 oz. of pulverized cubebs ; 
4 oz. of pulverized gum arabic, 1 oz. of pulverized extract of co- 
nium. Mix. 

Russia Salvb. — Take equal parts of yellow wax and sweet oil : 
melt slowly, carefully stirring; when cooling, stir in a small 
quantity of glycerine. Good for all kinds of wounds, &c. 

Dentist's Composition for Fillino Decayed Teeth. — Gold, 1 
part; nuicury, 8 parts; incorporated by heating together ; when 
mixed pour them into cold water. Or, tinfoil and quicksilver; melt 
together in a convenient vessel, take a small quantity, knead it 
in the palm of the hand, and apply quick. Or, mix a little finely- 
powdered glass with some mineral succedancum ; apply as usual. 
Or, take some mineral succedaneum, and add some steel dust. Or, 
mineral succedaneum mixed with levigated porcelain or china. 
Or, gypsum, 1 part; levigated porcelain, 1 part; levigated iron 
filings, 1 part ; make into a- paste with equal parts of quick drying 
coi)al and mastic varnish. Or, quicksilver, 40 grains; steel filings, 
26 grains. Or, silver. 72 parts ; tin, 20 ])arts ; zinc, 6 parts. Fetter 
than any, pure gold, 1 part; silver, 3 parts; tin, 2 parts; melt 
the first two, add the tin, reduce all to a fine i)0wder, use with an 
equal quantitv of pure mercury. 

Gutta-porcha, softened by heat, is recommended. Dr. Rollfa 
advises melting a piece of • caoutchouc at the end of a wire, and 
introducing it while warm. 

Amalgams for the teeth arc made with gold or silver, and quick- 
silver, the excess of the latter being squeezed out, and the stiff 
amalgam used warm. Inferior kinds are made with quicksilver 
and tin, or zinc. A popular nostrum of this kind consists of 40 
grains of quicksilver and 20 of fine zinc filings, mixed at the time 
of using. The following is said to be the most lasting and least 
objectionable amalgam : Melt 2 parts of tin with 1 of cadmium, 






It 



¥ ■ P 



40 ]H{i;(J()lST.S UEC'KirT.S. 

run it, intoivii mc'dt, find mlucc it to filing.^. Form tliesu into a 
lliiid iiuml^mni w'illi im.Tciiry, iiud stinoczu otit the excess of mer- 
cury tliroujfli ii'iitlier. Work up tiio s()li<l rt'sidue in Um; hiind, and 
press it 'into the tootii. Anotlier cement consists of about T.'. 
parts of silver, 21 of tin, and of zinc, amalgamated with quick- 
silver. , , . . T> • 

I'oijnuE Mbtalmqi-e.— Tlio article sold under this name in Tans 
appears to be an amalgam of silver, mercury, arid ammonium, 
with au excess of mercury, which is presseilout Itetore usiii^r it. 

To KxTKACT Ti;i;:'u with mttlk oit no 1'ain.— Tincture of aco- 
nite, chloroform, and alcohol, of each 1 oz.; mix; moisten two 
jiled^a'ts i)f cotton with the liquid, and apply to the Rums on each 
side of the tooth to be extracted, holding them in their place witli 
jdiers or other instruments for from live to ten minutes, rubbing 
the gum fn-ely inside and out. 

Tooth Wa.sh.— To !{kmovk Dlacknkss —Pure muriatic acid, 
1 oz. ; water, 1 oz. ; honey, 2 oz. ; mix. Take a tooth-brush, and 
wet it freely with this preparaticjn, and briskly rub. the black 
teeth, and in a momtut's time they will be perfectly white ; then 
innuediately wash out the mouth with water, that the acid may 
not act upon the enamel of the teeth. 

DKNTisT'a Nervh Paste. — Arsenic, 1 ])art; ro.se pink, 2 part.';. 
To destroy the nerve, ajqtly tlii > ])reparatioii on a jdedget of 
cotton, previously moistened witii creosote, to the cavity of tin; 
tooth, lot it remain 4 hours, then wash out thoroughly with water. 

DENTisr'a Emeiiy Wiikels. — Emery, 4 11)^.; shellac, 5 ll». ; melt 
the shellac over a slow fire; stir in the emery, and pour into a 
mould of plaster of Paris. When cold it is ready for use. 

Ba.se for AHTii'ioiAL Teetii.— PHoi'oikTioNS,— ludiu rubber, ! 
lb. ; sulphur, 5 lb. ; vormillion, 1 lb. 4o/i. 

CuliE Foli Lock jaw, saii> to he positive. — Let any one who lias 
•an attackof lock jaw tnke a small (piantity ofspirits of turpentine, 
warm it, and pour it on the wound — no matter where the wound is, 
or what its nature is, and relief will follow in less than one minute. 
Tur|icntine is also a sovertMgn remedy for croup. Saturate a i)iece 
of ilannel with it, and jdace the tiatmel on the throat and ••-best — 
and in very severe cases three to live drops on a lump of sugar 
may be taken internally. • 

Comi'Oi;ni> Extract of Kucnu.— Buchu leaves, 1 lb. ; boiling dis- 
tilled water. 3 gals. ; boil the leaves in 2 gals, of the water down to 
G qts. ; then boil it again in the remaining water till reduced to 2 
qts. Evaporate the mi.xed liijuors down to (! qts., and add 1 qt. 
strong sage tea^ 2 drs. bicarb. ])Otassa, 2 drs. tinct. cannabis 
indica, f) oz. rectified spirit, 2 oz. balsam copaiba, and Harlem oil, 
1 bottle. 

New .Uetiiod or Em]!Almin(;.— Mix together 5 pounds dry sul- 
piiate of alumine, 1 (piart of warm water, and 100 grains of arseni- 
ous acid. Inject 3 or 4 quarts of this mixture into all the vessels of 
the human body. This applies as well to all animals, bird.-J, fishes, 
&c. This jn-oce.^s supersedes the old and revolting mode, aiul has 
been introduceil into the great auatoniicid school.^ of J'aris. 

Nitrate ok Silver.— Pure silver. 1.] oz. ; nitric aeidj \ oz. diluted 
with water, 2 oz. ; heat by a sand-bath until ebullition ceases, and 



l)Ki;(J(JIST 8 RKC'Kll'TS. 



43 



},mm jinihic, 1 dram. 



of silver, 10 dnini;-: ; 



tlic n.ilcr 'J ('x|K'lli'tl then pour into nu;iild.s. Tins suhatiiiice 
must 1)0 kept uow tlie lij,dil. 

IIahi Dvi;, No. 1. — Take f^allic acid, .] oz : alfohol, 8.oy,. ; soft 
water, IGoz. I'lit the iicid in tliealeohol, then add the water. 

.Mo. 2. — t'rystallized nitrate of silver, 1 oz. ; slronj^esl ammonia, 
;; oz. ; j^iim arahic, ^ oz. ; soft water, <; oz. I'lit the silver in the 
animonia ; do not cork it till it is dissolved ; dissolve the gum iu the 
water, then nii.x, atid it )S ready for use. 

Keep Nos. i and 2 insepar-ite bottles, and apply each alternatcdy 
to the hair. IJu particular to clctuisc the hair l»eforu ai>plyinjj the 
dye. 

Another. — Nitrate of silver, 11 drams; nitric acid, 1 dram; 
distdled waiter, 1 pint; sap <,'reen, ^ drams; 

.\li.\. 

A.NOTiiKU. - Nit"ic Jicid, 1 dram; nitratx; 
sap green, 'J drams ; mucilage, [> drams ; dislilled water, ;;?] 
Iliiid oz. 

IJAiH I.NVHiouAToii. — Uay mm, 2 pints; alcoiiol, 1 pint; castor 
oil, 1 oz. ; carij. aiumonia, j oz. ; tincture of caiitharides, 1 oz. iMi.v 
iLeni well. This compound will promote the growth of the hair, 
and i»revent it from fallinj^ out. 

IIazou-Sthoi' Paste. — Wet the strop with a little sweet oil, and 
up|ily a little flour of emery evenly over the surface.. 

Oil, OK UosKH. — Olive Oil, I 11).; otto of roses, 50 drops ; oil of 
rosemary, 25 drops; mix. Another, ro.ses (hardly oi^'ned) 12 oz. ; 
olive oil, 10 oz., beat them togtither iu a mortar; let them remain 
lor a few days, then express the oil. 

Halm of IJkauty. — Pure soft water, 1 (^t. ; pulverized Castile 
soap, loz.; emulsion of bitter almonds, oz. ; rose and orange 
ilower water, of each, S oz. ; tincture of benzoui^ 2 drs. ; borax, 1 
dr. ; add 5 grs. bichloride of mercury to every 8 oz. of the rui.v- 
ture. To use, apply on a cotton or linen cloth to the face, .tc. 

(iRiENTAii Cold Crkam. — Oil of almomls, 4 oz., white wax and 
.spermaceti, of each, 2 drs. ; melt, and add rose water, 4 oz.; orange, 
lluwcr water, 1 oz. ; used to soften the skin, apply as the last. 

SiiAviNO Cream. — White wax, spermaceti, and almond oil, of 
each i oz. : melt, and while warm, beat in 2 squares of Windsor 
aoajt previously reduced to a paste with rose water. 

Circassian Cream. — Take 2 ouncesof perfectly fresh suet, either 
mutton or venison; 3 ounces of olive oil ; 1 oz. gum benzoin in 
])owdcr, and i oz. of alkanet root. Put the whole into a jam jar, 
wliH.li, if without c lid, must bo tied over with bladder, and place 
the jar in a saucepan containing boiling water, ai tiie side of the 
lire. Wigcst for a whole day, then strain away all that is fluid 
through fine muslin, and stir till nearly cold. Add, say I dram 
of essence ot almonds, roses, bcrgamot or any other perfume 
desired. 

Frecklk Curk. — Take two oz, lemon juice, or half a dram- of 
powdered borax, and one dram of sugar; mix together, and let 
lliem stand in a glass bottle for a few days, then rub on iho face 
oei-asionally. 

Vankke Sitavino SoAP.-Take 3 lbs. white bar soap, 1 lb. (Castile 
'^oap, 1 (piHrt rain water. ^ pt. beet"s gall, I gill spirits of tur[ieu- 





44 



j,aUGGlBT'8 UECEIVTS. 







raoiua, 



colored uy a .^ "^- ^ ^^ compounu oi -. ^ 
tor oil, and perfume wi ^.^^^ ^^ ^,j„^l 

and orange. of rose water, aii" ^ gar of lead , 

Mrs. Allen' s.-Toit^ o/^ sulphur and , oz. oi s b 

CnmsTADOBo's lAiB in*. ^^^ ^^j. ^. ter -No^^^^t.^ted aqua- 

ammonia and 2 oz. sou ToI^, oz. gallic acKl, 

and J oz of tannm, dissoU ^^^^^.^^^ , of ^ v^'^'^^.^ic, and 8 

water. No. 2- {« \qua-artimonia, add 1^ oz. g 

1 oz. concentrated aqua . , i o7 of tannia tlis- 

- Phalon's (One I "K^^^J aoua-ammonia, add lo u/ ^.^,^ 

=£« n^^- UX'^^^^^^^^^^ '" '■"" ' 
and air, a dark color is P ^^.^^ ^^ i| 

is applied. __^ g oz. vmogar ;l''"'%„„ar of lead. 

Professor ^\f>«'»,,^,-, 'jrs sulphur, and 2 di=. bh^ 
part of soft water, add 2 drs. l 



deuoqist's receipts. 



U'l 



ilie 
or 



ts of 
ochi- 

I oz.*. 
ropa ; 
ihol. 2 

iliona, 

Icohol, 
ij Willi 

colored 
oil, and 

alcohol, 
. of ciis- 

in equal 
of Jeii^i 

aissolvcd 
nitrate ot 
[ 3 oz. o* 

acid, dis- 
. oz. crys- 
ted a(iua- 
15 oz. 80tt 

callicacid, 

ral. of soft 

gsolved in 

able, and 8 

tannia dis- 
o 1 oz. crys- 
tratcd aqua- 
No. 3. 1 oz. 
Ivater. Tbia 
color if tlie 

ed nitrate of] 
soft water. 

to tlie li^llH 
to which it| 



ExTUACT or PATcnonri.— Mix 1} ozs. ottar of Patchouli, nnd i or. 

ottar of ro^e, with Iji^al. rectified Hpirits. 

rii;A Fo.vM von Uauhkii.s. — Alcohol, 4 oz. ; castor oil, 1 oz. ; am- 
monia, y, oz. ; water, I pt. Dissolve the ca.stor oil and ammonia 
i.i tlic alcohol, then add the alcohol mixture to the water. 

l*yiior.Ai,uc IlAiit Dyk. — Pyroj^allic acid, \ oz. dissolve it in hot 
di.^tlilf>(l water 1.V oz., when the solution cools add gradually 
rectified spirit, ^ fluid oz. 

FiNi: Shampoo Liquid. — Dissolve ^ o'/. carb. of ammonia and loz. 
of ))oriix in 1 qt. water, then add 2 oz. glycerine, 3 (jts. of New 
Eiicrlaml nun, and I qt. of bay rum, moisten the hair with this 
liq !or, sham])oo with the hands until a slight lather is formed, theu 
wji?h off with clean water. 

CiiEAi' Hav Rum. — Saturate a \ lb. block of carb. of magnesia 
wilh oil of Day ; i)nlverizo tlie magnesia, place it in a filter and pour 
water tiiroiigh it until the desired quantity is obtained, then add 
nlcoliol. The quantity of water and alcoliol employed depends on 
tiic (Iciirod stroagth and quantity of the Bay rum, Aiiolhor^ Oil of 
Jliiy, 10 lliiid drs. ; oil of pimento, 1 fluid dr. ; acetic ether, 2 fluid 
drs. ; alcohol 3 gals. ; water 2^ gals. Mix, and after 2 weeks repose 
ililtoi-. 

Liquid fou Forcino the Hrahd. — Cologne 2 oz. ; liquid hartshorn, 
1 dr.; tiuct. cautharidcs, 2 drs. ; oil rosemary, 12 drop.s ; lavender, 
IJ drops. Apply to the face daily and await results. Said to bo 
Iroliahlo. 

Court PriASTEu. — Brush silk over with a solution of isinglass, in 
pirit or warm water, dry and repeat several times. For the last 
pplicatiou apply several coats of balsam of Peru. Used to close 
.nU or wounds^ by warming it, and applying. It does not wash 
iff until the skin partially heals. 

Bailing Powder. — Tartaric acid. 5 lbs. ; pur; sesquicarbonate of 

loda. 8 lbs. ; potato farina, or other flour or starch, IG lbs. Dry 

icparately by gcutic heat. Mix this perfectly in a dry room, pas3 

he mixture through a sieve and put up at once into damp proof 

ard lu-L'saed i)ackage3. To use, 1 or 2 teaspoonfulls are mixed 

ith dry flour, which is then mixed with cold water, and baked 

nraodiately. Anollm'. — Tartaric acid, I lb. ; pure bicarbonate of 

idti I lbs. ; potato farina,§lb. Treat the same as the last. 

Compound Extract Buciiu. — Buchu, in coarse powder, 12 oz. ; 

cohol, 3 pts. ; water, 6 pts. are sullicient. Treat the leaves by 

aceration and displacement, first with a portion of the alcohol 

|ih1 then with the remainder mixed with the water, evaporate the 

Bsulling liquid with a gentle heat to three pints, and add 2^ lbs. . 

igar, continue the heat till it is dissolved, and after removing 

om the iirc, add oil of cubebs, oil of juniper; of each 1 fluid dr.; 

;)irit of nilric ether, 12 fluid ozs., previously mixed, stir together. 

Co.MPouND Svuui' OF IlypopiiosPiirTEs. — Take of hypoi^hosphit© 



no, I] oz. ; hypophosphito of soda ^ oz ; hypophosyhite of 
)ta,r:a, .}'oz. ; «ane sugar, 1 lb. troy; hot water, 20 fluid ozs.; 
f;in,i,^e water, 1 Huid oz. Mix a solution of the mixed salts in the hot 
iitor, filter through paper, dissolve the sugar in the solution 



.;i 




m 



ivith an 
•ar of U'«*"- 



q^fti™^ lioat, and strain, and add the orange flower water. Dose, a 



spoonful, containing nearly five grains of the mixed salts. 






44i 



DllUGGIST'ti IlECEIPTS. 



1i ■' 



V : 



Davis' Pain Killeu Imphoved.— Powdorpti gnaiac. 2(» Ib.^. ; cam- 
phor, 2lbrf. : powdorcd caycuiic jjcppcr. G Iba. ; caustic liquor of 
ammonia, J lb. ; jjowdcrod opium, l lb.; (Ilt,'e3t these ingredients in 
32 (,Ml3. alcohnl lor 13 weeks, and iilter. 

Compound ISyuup o*' IIyi-oi'iiosimuti: and InoN.— Dissolve 25G 
grs. each vt hypophosphitea of soda, lime and potassa, and 12G grj. 
hypophosphiie of iron, in 12 ozs. water, by a water balh. Filter 
and add su!I:ciCDt water to maice up for the evaporation. Add 18 
ozs. sugar by gentle heat, to make 21 Uuid ozs. syrup. Each fluid 
oz. contains 12 grs. each of the hypophospLitos of soda, lime and 
potassa, and six grs. hypophosphite of iron. 

Cure for Duunkenness. — Warranted n certain Remedy. ConCno 




meat and vegetables steeped in spirit and water. On the fifth day 
of this treatment he has an extreme disgust for spirit, being con-' 
tinually drunk. Keep up this treatment till he uo longer desires 
to cat or drink, and the cure is certain. 

Rabey's Liniment.— Sulphuric ether, 4 ozs. ; hartshorn, 4 ozs, ; 
oil of origanum 4 ozs. ; alcohol, 4 ozs. ; sweet oil, 4 ozs. Shako 
well before using. For sprains, use a tight flannel bandage, four 
inches wide. For lieadache, rub a little on the temples and apply a 
bandage with the liniment to the forehead. 

Rabky's Wizard Oil.— Oil of origanum, 6 ozs.; alcohol; G ozs.; 
spirits turpentine, 1 oz. ; camphor, 1 oz. Shake well before using. 

Injection fob Obstructed Menstbuation. — Mix 1 to 2 fluid drs. 
liquor ol' ammonia with 1 pt. milk ; use thrice daily. 

To CURE VOMITING IN PREGNANCY. — Mix 1 dr. carbonatc of mag- 
nesia ; i oz. tinct. of Colombo ; 5)^ oz. peppermint water. Dose, 
1 tablespoouful 3 times a day. 

IIabland's Venereal Cure. — Mix together powdered cubebs, 1} 
ozs. ; balsam capaiba, i oz. ; powdered gum arable, ^- oz. ; cinnu"- 
mon water, 3 ozs. A tablespoouful of the mixture to be taken at 
intervals 8 times a day. 

Fob Disease of the kidneys. — Boil 1 oz. of pareira brava in 3 
pts. of water down to 1 pt. Dose, a wine glassful three times per 
day. 

Incontinence of Urine op Old PE0PLE.->-The continued use of 1 
to G drops tinct. of iodina has proved a successful remedy. For 
other persons^ put 4 drops tincture of aconite root in a tumbler of 
water, and use a teaspoonful every half hour until relieved. 

Wash for removing Particles op Zinc ob Iron from t e Eye. — 
Muriatic acid, 20 drops ; mucilage, 1 dr. ; mix with 2 fluid ozs. 
rose water. Iron or steel particles may be-extracted by holding 
near them a powerful magnet. 

To Remove Tumors.— Dr. Simpson of Edinburgh introduces a 
hollow acupuncture needle, or very fine trocar (a surgical instru- 
ment in the form of a fine hollow needle) into their tissue, and in- 
jects a few drops of some irritant liquid such as a solution of 
chloride of zinc ; percholorde of iron, or creosote. The cflecl is 
to destroy the vitality of tl^e tumors bo treated, and o4Biit of 
separating them. 



TWIOG' 

Toad. .1 o 

cdly. till 

Al.i'l.VE 

anti .] oz. 
Glyceh 
of amniot 
sugar of] 
nia, then i 
for four Ol 

CUVSTAI 

melt toget 
bergamot 
li't it stai 
made by u 
almonds. 

Macassa 
then tie I f 
the oil, let 
red, then re 

Ox 31 A BR 

6 (yz. ; wher 
Rear's 
Haiu Re.« 
each, 1 07,. ; 
arc to Stan 
tabic salt, I 
oz. This PI 
^air, turns 
common 
twice a dj 
hair. F(^r' 
Balm of 
^'hite bar so 
place till di 
neroli and 

New Yobi 
H pts. ; oitr 

Barber's 

cream larta: 

Fbangipai 

1 oz. ; macei 

gal. ; orang 

Jockey C 

gal.; balsan 

Gf musk, 8 

Mix. 

I-i adies' 

' essence of tl 
i "z. ; es3on( 

Kl.SS ME Q 

oforange-flo 
essence of j 



DilU(KJIST M RECEIPTH. 



45 



Twioc'fl ITAm-CoLDniNo.— Tnko 1 dr. lac pnlphur, J dr. sugar of 
loiul, 1 ()/,. ri)S»> Uiitt-r; mix c'li' fully. Apjily to the bair r^jieat- 
cdly. till It asi.iihs tlic <!i .-".intl pliade. 

-(Xi.i'iNE IL\u;-1Jai,m. — To 10 oz of poft water add 8 oz. of alcohol 
and .] uz. spirits Hir[n'ntiiie, J oz. sulidiiir, and i oz. siifrar of JiMui. 

Glyckhink Pi;ri'Ai'.ATioN. — New rum, 1 qt. ; c( nccntratcd .'jirit.s, 
of amniotiia, lo drojs; glycerine oil, 1 oz ; lac sulphur, 5^ di:;. ; 
sugar of lead, T)^ dps. ; put the licpior into a bottle, add the ammo- 
nia, then the other components. Shake the compound occasionally 
for four or five days. 

CuYSTALMNK (^liEAM.— Oil of almond, 8 oz. ; spermaceti, 1 oz. ; 
melt together. When a little cooled, add A oz. or less of essence >f 
bcrgamot or other perfume; put into wide-mnuthi ' hottles, and 
let it stand till cold. CuDi/ihor't/fl crystallin'^ ( ream may ho 
made by using camphorated oil (L. Champhorit) instead of oil of 
almonds. 

Macassar Oil.— Olive oil, 1 qt. ; alcohol, 2h oz. ; rose oil, IJ oz. ; 
then tie 1 oz. of chipped alkanet root in a muslin bag, a id put it ia 
the oil, let it alouo for some days till it turns the color of a pru-tty 
red, then remove to other oils. Do not press it. 

Ox Marhow. — Melt 4 oz. ox tallow ; white wax, 1 oz. ; fresh lard, 
6 oz. ; when cold, add 1^ oz. oil of boriramot. 

Beau's Oil. — Use good sweet lard oil, 1 qt., oil bcrgamot, U oz. 

EIaii! Restohativu. — Sugar of lead, borax and lac sulphur, of 
each, 1 0/,.; aqua auimouia, 4 oz ; alcohol, 1 gill. Tliese articles 
are to stand mixed for 14 hours ; then add bay rum, 1 gill : fmo 
tabic salt, 1 tablespoon; soft water, 3 |)ts. ; essence of berj.,'aniot, 1 
oz. This prej'aration gives a sjdendid glossy apj^earauce to tho 
hair, turns gray hair to a dark color, and restores the hair when 
common baldness sets in. When the hair is thm or bald, apply 
twice a dny with a hard brush, working it into the roots of the 
h.air. For gray hair once a day is sufficient. 

Balm op a Thousand Flowehs. — Deodorized alcohol, 1 pt ; nice 
white bar soap, 4 oz. ; shave the soap when put m, stand in a warm 
place till dissolved; then add oil of cilronolla, 1 dr.; and oils of 
ncroli and rosemary, cf each h dr. 

New Youk Bakbkk's Star IfAin Oil. — Castor oil 6^ pts. ; alcohol, 
1 J pts. ; citrouella and lavender oil, each ^ oz. 

BARBEn'a Shampoo Mixture. — Soft water, 1 pt. ; sal soda, 1 oz. ; 
cream tartar, i O/.. Apply thoroughly to the hair. 

FnANGiPANxi.— Spirits, 1 gal. ; oil bergamot, 1 oz. ; oil of lemon, 
1 oz.; macerate for 4 days, fre(juently shaking; tlien add water, I 
gal. ; orange-flower water, 1 pint, essence of vanilla, 2 oz. Mix 

Jockey Club. — Spirit of wine, 5 gal. ; orange-flower water, 1 
gal.; balsam of Peru, 4 oz. ; essence of bergamot, 8 oz. ; essence 
of musk, 8 oz. ; essence of cloves, 4 oz. ; essence of neroli, 2 oz. 
Mix. 

Ladies' Own. — Spirits of wine, 1 gal. ; otto of roses, 20 drops ; 
essence! of thyme, ^ oz. ; essence of neroli, i oz. ; essence of vamlla, 
i oz. ; essence of berg.amot, | oz. ; orange-flower water, G oz. 

Kiss me Quick. — Spirit, I gal. ; essence of thyme, i o/.. ; essence 
of orange-flowers, 2 oz. ; essence neroli. ^ oz. ; otto of roses, .30 drops ; 
«S3cncc of jasmine, 1 oz. ; essence of balm mint ^ oz petals of 



V' 



'i t 



rl-*f.. 






EH 



t?tf 



li 5 



fl 



46 



druggist's receipts 



roses, 4 07.. ; oil lemon, 20 drops ; calorus aromaticus, \ oz. essence 
neroli, \ oz. Mix aud strain. ^ ^ « j 

Uppsr '''kn.— Spui-s of wiue, 4 qts. \ essenca of cedrat, 2 drs. ; 
essence of violets, ioz. ; essence of neroli, \ oz. ; otto ot roses, 20 
drops i orangc-Uowcr essence, I oz. : oil ot rosemary, 30 drops ; ods 
borgamot and neroli, each ^ oz. . ^ , , • , 

India CnoLAaoauB.— Quinine, 20 grs. ; peruviau bark, pulverized, 
1 oz. ; sulphuric acid, 15 drops, or 1 scruple of tartaric acid is best; 
brandy, 1 gill i water to make one pint ; dose, 5 teaspoonfuls 
every 2 hours in the absence of fever, an excelltnt remedy. 

FtBRiruGK Wink.— Quinine, 25 grs.; water, 1 pint; sulphuric 
acid, 15 drops ; epsom salts, 2 oz. ; color with tir c»,ure of red San- 
ders ; dose, a wine glass 3 ' imes per day. This is ^ world renowned 
medicine. 

Baiibkll's iNDi.'kN-LiNiMENT.— Alcohol, 1 qt. ; tincture of capsicum, 
1 oz. ; oil of origanum, sassafras, pennyroyal, and hemlock, of each 
I oz. Mix. 

Cod Liver Oil, as usually prepared, is nothing more or less 
than cod oil clarilied, by which proce-s it is in fact deprived in a 
great measure of its virtue. Cod oil can be purchased from any 
wholesale oil dealer for one thirtieth part of the price of cod liver 
oil as usually sold, and it 13 easy to clarify it. Dealers might turn 
this information to good account. To make it more palatable and 
digestible, put 1 oz. of lino table salt to each quart bottle. 

SisiPLB Rkmkdiks for Scarlet Fever. — Open the bowels regu- 
larly every day, with some mild aperient medicine, such as castor 
oil, senna, etc., and keep the patient at rest, and comfortably 
warm ; sponge the surface with tepid water, two or three times a 
day; while it is hotter than natural, admit fresh air ; live on n 
bland diet, such as a cupful of arrowroot, several times a day; 
toast-water for common drink. Gargle made of strong sago tea, 
honey aud alum, or borax, may be used from the commencement, 
if the throat is affected. 

Parkgoric— Best opium, \ dr., dissolve it in about 2 tablespoons 
of boiling water ; then add benzoic acid, \ dr. ; oil of anise, \ a 
fluid dr. ; clarified honey, 1 oz. ; camphor gum, 1 scruple ; alcohol, 
76 per cent, 11 fluid oz.; distilled water, 4 fluid oz ; macerate 
(keep warm) for two weeks. Doss— For children, 5 to 20 drops, 
adults, 1 to 2 teaspoons. 

Cough Syrup.— Put 1 qt. hoarhound tea; 1 qt. of water, and 
boil it down to 1 pt. ; add 2 or 3 sticks licorice ; 2 oz. syrrp of 
squills, and a tablesi)Oonful essence of lemon. Take a tablespoon- 
ful 3 times a day, or a:; the cough requires. 

Cough Syrup.— Syrup of squills, 2 oz.; tartarlzed antimonyj 
8 grs. ; sulphate of morphine, 5 grs. ; pulverized gum arabic, \ oz.; 
honey, 1 oz. ; water, 1 oz., mix: dose for an adult 1 small teaspoon- 
ful, repeat in halt an hour if it does not relieve : child in pro- 
portion. 

Vegetable Substitute for Calomel.— Jalap, 1 oz., senna, 2 oz.. 
peppermint, 1 oz, (a Utile cinnamon if desired,) all pulverized 
and sifted through gauze. Dose, I teaspoouful put in a cup with 2 
or 3 spoonfuls of hot water, and a good lump of white sugar; 
when cool, drink all ; to be taken fasting in the morning; drink 



drugoist's receipts. 



47 



freely, if it does not operate in 3 hours repeat J the quantity, use 
iu.^tciul of calomel. 

S r.\MMKi!i.\(-;.— Iiniiotliments in the sppech may be cured, where 
lliicis i!() i;nil-f ifiiKLlioii cf the orgiins of articulation, by perseve- 
r ;iiC( , lor tiate ((r four months, in the simple remedy of reading* 
nlo'Ml, Willi the teelh closed, for at least 2 hours in the course of 
cftcli day. 

Cold in thr Head.— Dr. PoUion, of France, says that cold in 
till' head can be cured by inhaling hMrtshorn, The inhalation by 
tii«> nose should bo seven or eight times in live minutes. 

Camphou Ick.— Spermaceti, U oz., gum camphor, 5 oz.,oil sweet 
almonds, 4 tcaspoonfiils ; set on the stove in an earthen dish till 
dissolveu ; heat just enough to dissolve it. While warm pour into 
snitill moulds, if desired to sell ; then paper, and put into tinfoil; 
used for cliai)s on hands or lij>s. 

Imi'kuial Drops for Guavkl and Kidney Complaints.— Oil of 
oripiinum, i oz , oil of hendock, i oz., oil of sassafras, i oz., oil of 
anise, i oz , nit oh 1, I p'nt: mix. Dose, from J to I teaspoonful 3 
times a dry, in bweetencd water, will soon give relief when con- 
stant woakiuss is felt across the small of the back, as well as 
gravilly alfections causing pain about the kidneys. 

Positive Cikb for GoNOKiiiia':-v.—Li(iuor of potass, ^ oz., bitter 
api'le, 3 oz., spirits of sweet nitre, | oz., balsam of copaiba, J oz., 
best gum, \ oz. To use, mix with pepjiermiiit water; take J tea- 
spdonful 3 times per day ; cure crtaiu in 9 days. 

{'elkb';atki) Pile Ointment.- Take carbonate of lead, | oz., sul- 
phate of mor])liia, 1.5 grs. ; stramonium ointment, 1 oz. ; olive oil, 
20 drops. Mix, and apply 3 times per day, or as the pain may 
require. 

Fly Paper.— Coat paper with turpentine varnish, and oil it to 
keep tlie varnish from drying. 

SwKATiNO Drops.— Ipecac, sadron, boneset, and camphor gum. 
of eacli, 3 oz. ; opium, 1 oz., alcolxd, 2 qts. Let stand 2 weeks and 
filter. A teaspoonful in a cup of Imt sage or catnip tea every 
h<Mir until free i)erspiration is induced ; excelh nt in colds, fevers, 
inflammations, &c. Bathe the feci in hot water at the same 
time. 

Svnup FOR Consumptives.— Of taraarac bark, take from the tree 
without rossing, 1 ])eck ; spikenard root, J lb.; dandelion root, ^Ib. ; 
hops, 2 oz. Boil lliese sulTicieaL to get the strength in 2 or 3 gals. 
water; strain, and boil down to i gal.; when blood warm, add 
3It)s. best honey, and 3 pints best brandy; bottle and keep in a 
cool place. Dose, drink freely of it 3 times per day before meals, 
at least a gill or more ; cure vrry eertiiin. 

Common Castor Oil.— Pale vegetable oil, 1 gal., castor oil, 3 
gals. Mix. 

I'lLMONio Wafers.- Lump sugar, licorice, and starch, of each 2 
parts; pum, 10 parts; squills imd ipecacuanha, of each 5 parts; 
Inctueariuni, 2 i)arts. Mi.\, and divide into 8-gra"n lozenges. 

yi.; Jamks Clarke's Diakhkoca and Cuoleiia Mixti.rk— Tinct. 
of 0' ium, tinct. of canii>hor, and spirits of t\irpcntine, of each 3 
drams; oil of ]H'j)perniint, 30 drops; mix. Dosi', 1 teaspoonful 
in brandy and water for diarrhoea ; 1 tablcspooufiil fur cholera 



48 



DRUGGIST S RECEIPTS. 



'!^ 



I 



VEQBTABriE OR CoMpostTioN PowDEn.— Fine bayberry bark, 1 lb., 
ginger 8 oz., common cayenne, 3 oz., mix. Dose, 1 teaspoonfiil in 
a cup of boiling water, sweeten and add milk. The best powder 
on record. 

^ Tinctures are made with 1 oz. of gum, root, or bark, &c.. 
dried, to each pint of proof spirits, and let it stand one week, ana 
filter. 

Essences are made with 1 oz. of any given oil, added to 1 
pint alcohol. Peppermints are coloured with tinct. turmeric, cin- 
namon with tinct. of red sanders, wintergrocn with tinct. kino. 

SciiSTiTUTii FOR Aruowroot.— Finest potato starch, 75 lbs. ; lump 
Bugir, 8 lbs.; finely-ground rice, 21 lbs. Mix, ancl sift through 
lawn ; yields 100 lbs. excellent arrowroot. 

Cekt.iin Cuke for Choui\— Goo.se oU and urine equal parts. 
Dose, 1 teaspoonful. A certain cure if taken in time. 

Corn3 and Waiits.— Take a small quantity of the potash paste 
recommended for Poll Fvil and api)ly to the corn or wart. 

Druggist's Colous.— 1>//w, take iron filing:!, hydrochloric acid 
to dissolve, dilute with cold water. Red^ solution of sal ammoniac, 
cochineal to color. Jilup, indigo 1 part, oil of vitriol, 2 parts, dis- 
solve, then dilute with water, f/rcew, verd'gri.s, 1 part, acetic acid, 
3 parts, dilute with water. Purple^ cochineal, 25 grs., sugar of 
lead 1 oz., dissolve. 

Smelling Salts.— Sub-carbonate of ammonia, 8 parts ; put it in 
coarse powder in a bottle, and pour on it oil of lavender, 1 part. 
TuNBuiDcJE Wells VVatek.— Chloride of sodium, 5 grains ; tinct. 
steel, 20 drops; distilled water, 1.} pints. 

Mineral Water.— Epsom saltsj^ 1 oz. ; cream tartar, J oz. ; tarta- 
ric acid, i oz.; loaf sugar, 1 lb. ; oil of liirch, 20 drops; put 1 qt. 
cold water on 2 tablespoonfuls yeast (winter green oil will do), 
let it work 2 hours and then bottle. 

Genuine Seidlitz Powders.— Ilochelle salts, 2 drs. ; bicarb, 
soda, 2 scruples; put these into a blue paper and put 35 grains 
tartaric acid into a white paper. To use, put eacii into dillercnt 
tumblers, fill i with water, adding a little loaf sugar to the acid, 
then pour together and drink quick. 

Bottled Seidlitz Water.— Fill soda-water bottles with clear 
water; add to each as below; cork and wire immediately: Ro- 
chelle salts, 3 drops; bicarbonate of soda, 35 grs. ; sulphuric acid, 
11 drops 

Excellent Tooth Powder.— Suds of Castile soap and spirits of 
camphor, of each an eqiial quantity ; tliicken with equal quanti- 
ties of pulverized chalk and charcoal to a thick paste. Apply with 
the finger or brusli. 

Rat Exterminator.— Warm wat<'r, 1 qt.; lard, 2 lbs. ; phosphorus. 
1 oz. ; mix, and thicken With Hour; to be spread ou bread ana 
covered with sugar. 

Bug Poison.— Alcohol, ^ n-nt; turpontioe, \ pint; crude sal am- 
moniac, 1 oz. ; mix all topetlier, ami let 'l digest in a warm phice 
for a fuw days, a' id it is ready for u.se. 

Mb icated CoiiGii Candy. — To 5 lbs. candy j'ist ready to pour 
on the slab, iidd the following niixliire, and form it into sticks \o 
correspond w«th the price asked for them : Tinct. squills, 2 oz ; cum- 



DRUGGIST S RECEIPTS. 



49 



(lis- 



I 



IKS 'X) 
CHfU- 



phoratcd tinct. of opium «.nd tinct. of tolu, of each ^ oz. ; wine of 
ipecac, sj oz. ; oils of gaiilthcria, 4 drops ; sassafras, 8 drops ; 
iiiul of iuiise seed oil, 2 drops, and use this freely in commoa 
coughs. 

Atkinson's Infants' Preservativr. — Carbonate of magnesia, 6 
drs. ; si.giir, 2 oz. ; oil of anise seed, 20 drops ; sal-volatilCj 2i dra.; 
liiuiliuiuin, 1 dr.; syrup of saffron, 1 oz. Mako up 1 pint with carra- 
way water. 

Aoi'E Pill. — Quinine, 20 grs. ; Dover's powders, 10 grs ; sub-car- 
l)i)iiate of iron, 10 grs. ; mix with iiiiicilage of gum arable and form 
into 20 \k\U. Dose, 2 each hour, commencing 5 hours before the 
chill should set in. Then take 1 night and morning until all are 
tiikfii. 

J'ii-1.8 TO PROMOTE Mexstrual Secretion. — Take pills of aloes 
find iiiynli, 4 drs. ; compound iron pills, 280 grs. ; mix and form into 
]0') pili^. D>i(^, 2 twice a day. 

Foil (insTitfUTED Menstruation. — Sulphate of iron, 60 grs.: po- 
ta.ssa (sill) curb.) GO gi'S. j myrrh, 2 drs. : make them into 3j gr. 
pilb; 2 lo be taken three times a day, in the absence of fever. For 
painful Dii'iistruation, take pulr. rhei., 2 drs. ; pulr. jalap, 2 dr; 
sirup (if of [iopj>ies to mix. Divide into 200 pills, and take night 
and inoiniiig. To chock immodrrato dow — Tinct. of ergot, 1 oz., 
iKpior ot ammonia, 3 drs. ; mix. Dose, teaspoonfiil in water 3 times 
a diiy. 

(SriMCLANT. — In Low Fevers, and After Uterine Hemorrhages. 
—Dest III- i!i(ly and ciimamon water, of each, 4 fluid oz. ; the yolks 
of 2 cgp-!| well bi'aten ; loaf sugar, (J oz. ; il of cinnamon, 2 drops ; 
nii.x. Do-i'-, From it to 1 (fluid) oz., as often as required. This 
; lakes both iiuai and drink. Of course, any other flavoring oils can 
be used, if i)referrcd, in place of the cinnamon. 

For Female Complaints. — One of the best laxative pilla for 
i'einale coinplaints ii niacrotin and rhubarb, each 10 grs.; extract 
of iiyoscyaums 10 gr.-;. ; Castile soap, 40 grs ; scrape the soap, and 
tmx well tog 'ther, forming into common sized pills with gum solu- 
tion. Dose, 1 i)ill at bed time, or sufficiently often to keep the 
bowels in a laxative state. 

Anodyne for Painful Menstrdation.— Extract of stramonium 
.«nd sulphate of quinine, each IG grs. ; macrotin, 8 grs. ; morphine, 
1 gr. ; make into 8 pills. Dose, 1 pill, repeating once or twice only, 
10 to 5i) minutes apart, if the pain does not subside before this 
time. Pai.i must subside under the use of this pill, and costiveness 
u not increased. 

PowoKR FOR E.VCESSIVE FLOODING. — Gums kino and catechu, each 
1 dr.; sMgar of lead and alum, each i dr.; pulverize all and 
thoroughly mix, then divide into 7 to 10 grain powders. Dose, 
Olio every 3 or 3 hours until checked, then less often merely to con- 
trol the flow. 

i.\.juc'TiON FOR Leucouuh.ka.— When the glairy mucus discharge 
is prcsfnr, prepare a tea of hemlock inner bark and witch hazel 
(oiien called spotted alder) leaves and bark, havoaferaab syringe 
largj eiioiigli lo till the vagina, and inject the tea^ twice daily; 
ami occasionally ia bad cases, say twice a week, inject a syringf 
of the folio wiug composition : 



50 



druggist's receipts. 



Fob Chronic Femalb CoMPLAiNTS.--White vitriol and sugar of 
lead, each, ^ oz. ; common salt, pulverized alum, and loaf sugar, 
each, i dr. ; soft water, 1 pt. Inject as above. 

For PuELAPStS uteri, OU FALLlhO OF THE WoMB. — Not Only the 
cheapest but the best support will be found to be a piece of fine 
firm sponge, cut to a proper size, to admit when damp of being 
jirossed uiTthe vagina to hold the womb in its place. The sponge 
should have a stout i)icce of small cord sewed 2 or 3 times through 
its centre, up and down, and left sufficiently long to allow its 
being taken hold of to remove tlie sponge, once a day, or every 
other day at the fartlu'st, for the purpose of washing, cleaning, and 
using the necessary injections ; and this must be done while the 
patient is lying down, to prevent tiie womb from again falling or 
prolapsing. After having injected some of the above tea, wet llio 
eponge in the same, and introduce it sufficiently liigh to hold the 
womb in its jjlace. If j)ain is felt about the head, buck, or loins 
for a few days before the menses appear prepare and use the fol- 
lowing : 

Emmenaoogue Tincture.— Alcohol, 1 pt. ; red oxide of iron, 1 
oz. ; oils of juniper and savin, each ^ oz. ; oil of tansey, 1 dr.; 
tincture of ergot, 3 drs.; tincture Spanish Hies, ^ oz ; mix all, and 
shake when taken. Dose, 1 teaspoon 3 times daily, to be taken in 
muBJlage of slippery elm or gum arabic, and drink freely of the 
mucilage also through the day, or use the following : 

Emmenagogue Pill.— Precipitrited carbonate of iron and gum 
myrrh, of each 2 drs. ; aloe.s am. tincture of Spanish flies, of each 
1 dr. ; and oil of savin, 1 dr. ; all to ba pulverized, and made into 
100 pills by using thick gum solution. Dose, 1 pill, from 1 to 3 
times daily, but not to move the bt)wels too much. 

Uterine Hemorrhages. — Unfailing cure. Sugar of lead, 10 grs.: 
ergot, 10 ffi'S. ; opium, 3 grs.; ipecac, 1 gr. ; all pulverized and 
ivell mixe(r Dose, 10 to 12 grs. ; given in a little honey or sjTup. 

In very bad cases after childbirth, it might be repeated in 30 
minutes, or the dose increased to 15 or 18 grs. ; but in cases of ra- 
ther profuse wasting, rcptat it once at the end of 3 hours, or as 
the urgency of the case may require. 

In every case of female debility make a liberal use of iron, as the 
want of iron in the system is often the cause of the trouble. Mix 
fine irm filings with as much ground ginger. Dose, half of a tea- 
spoon 3 times daily in a little honey or molasses, increasing or 
lessening the dose to produce - blackness of the stools. Continue 
this course until well. 

Nerve and Bone Liniment.— Beef's gnll. 1 qt. ; alcohol, 1 pt. ; vo- 
latile liniment, I lb. ; spts. of turpentine, 1 lb. ; oil origanum, 4 oz. ; 
aqua ammonia, 4 oz. ; tincture ol cayenne, ^ pt. ; oil of amlwr, 3 
oz. ; tincture Spanish tlieF, G o:^. ; mix well. 

^ Cei'Ualic Snuff. — Take asarabacca leaves, marjoram, light 
Scotch snuflF, equal parts ; grind them and sift, use like common 
snuff. 

Downer's Salve. — Beeswax, 4 oz. ; opium, i oz. ; sugar of lead, 
1 oz. ; melt the beeswax, ami rnb the lead up in the wax, th<n the 
opium, then 1 gill of swtet oil, incorporate all thoroughly to- 
gether, spread lightly on cloth ; good for burns, jjiles. Ac. 



DRUQGIST S RECEIPTS. 



51 



iron, 1 



Anotreh Salve.— Burgundy pitch, beeswax, white pine pitch, 
aud rosin, 1 uz. each, mutton tallow, 8 oz. ; goose oil, 1 gill, tar, 
1 gill, melt and mix thoroughly. A first-rate salve. 

VVhoopin« Cooqh Svrup. — Best rum, 1 pt. ; anise oil, 2 ozs. ; 
honey. 1 pt. ; lemon juice. 4 oz., mix. Dose for adults, 1 table- 
spuontul, 3 or 4 times per day ; children 1 teaspoon, with sugar aQ<f 
water. 

Liquid Opodeldoc. — Warm brandy, 1 qt. ; add to it gum cam- 
phor, 1 oz. ; sal ammoniac, i oz. ; oils of origanum and rosemary, 
etich i oz. ; oil wormwood, i oz. ; when the oils are dissolved, add 
6 oz. soft soap. 

Gruen Mountain Salve. — For rheumatism, burns, pains in the 
back or side, &c., take 2 lbs. rosin b irgundy pitch. I lb.; bees- 
wax, i lb. ; mutton tallow, i lb. ; melt slowly ; when not too 
warm, add oil hemlock, 1 oz. ; balsam fir, 1 oz ; oil of origanum, 
1 oz. ; oil of red cedar, 1 oz ; Venice turpentine, 1 oz. ; oil of 
wormwood, I oz ; verdigris, i oz. The verdigris must be finelv 
pulverized aud mixed with the oils ; then add as above, and work 
in cold water like wax till cold enough to roll ; rolls 5 inches 
long, 1 inch diameter, sell for 25 cents. 

English Remedy for Cancer.— Take chloride of zinc, blood- 
root pulverized, and Hour, equal quantities of each, worked into a 
f)asto and applied. First spread a common sticking-plaster much 
arger than Ino cancer, cutting a circular piece from the centre of 
it a little larger thau the cancer, applying it, which exposes a 
narrow rim of healthy skin ; then apply the cancer plaster, and 
keep it on 24 hours. On removing it, the cancer will be found to be 
burned into, and appears the color uf an old shoe-sole, and the rim 
outside will appear white and parboiled, as if burned by steam. 
Dress with slippery elm poultice until suppuration takes place, 
then heal with any common salve. 

Chronic Gout — To Curb — Take hot vinegar, and put into it 
all the table salt which it will dissolve, and bathe the parts affected 
with a sott piece of flannel. Rub in with the hand, and dry the foot, 
&c., by the fire. Repeat this operation four times in the 24 hours, 
15 minutes each time, for four days ; then twice a day for the same 
period ; then once, and follow this rule whenever the symptoms 
show themselves at any future time. 

Gout Tincture. — Veratrum viride (swamp hellebore), I oz. ; 
opium, J oz. ; wine, i pt. ; let them stand for several days. Dose, 
15 to 30 drops, according to the robustness of the patient, at inter- 
vals of 2 to 4 liours. 

Pahalvtic Liniment. — Sulphuric '>ther, 6 oz. ; alcohol, 2 oz. ; 
laudanum, I oz. ; oil of lavender, 1 oz. ; mix, and cork tightly. 
In a recent ciise of paralysis let the whole extent of the numb 
surface be thoroughly bathed and rubbed with this preparation, 
for several minutes, using the hand, at least three times daily ; at 
the samo time take internally, 20 drops of the same, in a lit le 
sweetened water, to prevent translation upon some internal 
organ. 

Charcoal a Curk for Riok Headache — It is stated tliat 2 tea 
spoons of finely powdered charcoal, drank in | a tumbler of water 
w'll) in less than fifteen mioiites, give relief tu the sick headache, 



52 



DRUGGIST 8 RECEIPTS. 



when caused, as in most cases it is, hy superabundance of acid on 
the stomach. We hafe frequently tried thia remedy, anditsetlicacy 
in every instance has been sigaiiUy satisfactory. 

Cathartic Syiicp. — Best sonna loaf, 1 oz. ; butternut, the inner 
bark of the root, dried and bruised, 2oz. ; peppermint leaf, ^ oz.; 
feiint-i seed, ^ oz. ; alcohol, ^ pt. ; water, 1^ i»t3. ; sugar, 2 lbs. ; put 
all into the spirit iind water, except the sugar, and let it stand two 
weeks, then strain^ pressing out from the dregs, adding the sug.ir 
and simmering a tew minutes only, to form the syrup. If it should 
cause griping in any case, increase the fennel seed and pepper- 
mint leaf. Dose, 1 tablespoon, once a day, or leas often if the 
bowels become too loose, up to the next period when the headache 
might have been ex})ected, and it will not be forthcoming. 

Chilblains. — To Cuiie. — Mutton tallow and lard, of each i lb.; 
melt in an iron vessel, and add hydrated o.syde of iron, 2 oz. ; 
stirring continually with an iron spoon, until the mass is ot a 
uniform black color; then let it cool, and add Venice turpentine, 
2 oz. ; Armenian bole, 1 oz. ; oil of bergaraot, 1 dr. ; rub up the 
bole with a little olive oil betore putting it in. 

Felons. — If Rkcent, to Ccub i.\ Six Houus. — Venice turpentine, 
I oz ; and put into it half a tea.spoon of water, aid stir with a 
rough slick until the mass looks lilce c,uidi<'d honey; then spread 
a good coat on a cloth, and wrap nroutul tlm finger. If the case 
is only recent, it will remove the pain in six hours. 

Fklon Salvk. — A salve made by burning one tablespoon of 
copperas, then pulverizing itaad mixing it with the yolk of an egg, 
is said to relieve the ])ain, and cure the felon in 24 hmirs ; the;i 
heal with cream two parts, and soft soap one part. Apply the 
healing salve daily after soaking the ])art in warm water. 

Felon Ointmknt. — Take sweet oil, ^ pt., and stow a 3-cent 
plug ot tobacco in it until tlie tnbicco is crisped ; thou squeeze it 
out, and add red lead, 1 oz. ; and boil until black; when a liitlo 
cool, add pulverized camphor gum, 1 oz. 

Wakts and Corns.— To Cuhk ix Ten MiNnTEa.--Tako a small 
piece of potash, and let it stand in tlie open air until it slacks, 
then thicken it to a paste with i>ulverized gum arable, which pro- 
vents it from spreading where it is not wanted. 

German Rheumatic Fluid.— Oils of hemlock and cedar, of each 
^ oz. , oils of origauum and sassafras, each 1 oz. ; aqua ammonia, 
1 oz. ; capsicum pulverized, I oz. ; spirits of turpentine and gum 
camphor, each ^ oz. ; put all into a quart bottle, and fill with 95 
per cent alcohol. 

Dose, for colic, for man, half a teaspoonful ; for a horse, J to 1 oz,, 
in a little warm water, every 15 minutes, till r.-.'lieved. 

Liniment foh Old Houe.s.— AU )hol, I qt. ; aqua ammonia, 4 oz. ; 
oil of origanum, 2 oz. ; camphor gum, 2 oz. ; opium, 2 oz. ; gum 
myrrh, 2 oz. ; ci mmon salt, two tablespoons. Mix, and shake occft- 
eionally for a week. 

Li:»imknt.- (.JooD Samaritan.— Take 98 per cent, alcohol, 2 q'\.] 
and add to it the fillowing aiMicka : (.'ils < f -it.s; ntVai ti.MnK,i k, 
Ppii-ita of turjieniine, tinctiue ot ciy.'nne, caf-ehu, guaiuc (gUP.-''/, 
nnd laudanum, of each, i oz. ; tincture of myrrh, 4 oz. ; oil otoriga- 
num, 2 oz ; oil of wiutcrgreen, ^ oz. ; guin camphor. 2 oz. ; and 



DRUoarsT's receipts. 



53 



chloroform, 1 J oz. This is one of tho best applicatioriB for internal 
pains known : it is superior to any other enumerated in this 
work. 

Cook's Elsctro-Magnetic Liniment. — Best alcohol, I ^al, ; oil of 
ftmber, 8 oz. ; gura camphor, 8 oz. ; Casdle soap, shaved hne, 2 oz. ; 
b 'ef's gnll, 4 oz. ; ammoiia, 3 F.'s strong, 12 oz. ; mix, and shake 
occasionally for 12 hours, and it is fit for u.se. This will be found 
a strong and valuable liniment. 

London Liniment. — Take chloroform, olive oil, and nqna ammo- 
nia, (if each I oz.; acetate of morphia, 10 grs. Mix and use as other 
liniments. Very valuable. 

Ointments. — Foh Old Soues. — Red precipitate, } oz. ; sugar of 
lead, i oz. ; burnt alum, 1 oz. ; white vitriol, \ oz., or a little less ; 
all to be very finely pulverized ; have mutton tallow made warm, 
^ lb. ; stir all in, and stir until cool. 

Judkin's Ointment. — Linseed oil, 1 pt. ; sweet oil, 1 oz. ; and boil 
them in a kettle on coals for nearly 4 hours, as warm as you can ; 
then have [julverized and mixed borax, J oz. ; red lea'd,4 oz. ; and 
surriir of lead, IJ oz.; remove t' e kettle from the fire, and thicken 
in the powder; continue the stirring until cooled to l)lood boat, 
tlio'i stir in 1 oz. of spirits of turpentine ; anO now take out a little, 
Ictti'ig it got cold, and if not then sufficiently thick to spread upon 
tiiiii poft linen as a salve, you will boil again until thia ])()int is 
readied. It is good for ail kind.-? of wountls, bruises, sores, burns, 
white swellings, rheumatisms, ulcers, sore breasts; nnd even where 
there are wounds on the inside, it has been used with advantage. 
Ij applying a plaster over the part. 

Gheen Ointment. —Honey and bces'-wax, each Jib.; spirits df 
turpentine. 1 oz. ; wintergreen oil and laudanum, each 2 oz. ; ver- 
digris, finely pulverized, | oz. ; lard, IJ lb. ; mix by a stove fire, in 
a opper kettle, heating slowly. 

Mead's SAiiT-RiiEUM Ointmknt. — Aquafortis, 1 oz.; quicksilver, 
1 oz.' good hard soai>, dif^solv^d so as to mix readily, I oz. ; pre- 
nared clinlk, 1 oz. ; mixed with 1 lb. of lard ; incorporate the abov-j 
by putting the aquafortis and quicksilver into an earthen vi'sse», 
and when done ef'^rvoscing, mix with the other ingredients, put- 
ting the chalk in last ; add a little spirits of turpentine, say i table- 
spoon. 

Itch Ointment.— Unsalted butter, 1 lb. ; burgundy pitch, 2 oz. ; 
spirits of turpentine, 2 oz.: red precipitate, pulverized, li oz. ; 
raelt the pitch and add the nutter, stirring well together ; then re- 
move from the fire, and when a little cool aid the spirits of tuP- 
pentiuf^, aid lastly tho precipitate, and stir until c.ild 

iMAONETic Ointment.— Kaid to he Tkask'.s.- Hard raisins cut \K 
pieces, and fine-cut tobacco, equal weights; simmer well together, 
then strain, and press out all from the dregs. 

Jauniucio.— Ln its Woust Forms. — Ked iodide of mercury, 7 gra. 
iodide of potassium, 9 grs ; aqua dis. (distilled water) 1 oz. ; mix. 
Comm nee I)y giving 6 drops .S or 4 times a day, increasing 1 drop 
a (l.iy until 12 or 15 drops arc given at a dos?. Give in a little 
wall", iniinediatelv after meals. If it causes a griping sensation in 
the howels, au'f fulness in the head, when you trot up to 12 or 13 
drops, go back to 6 drops, and up again as before. 



Si 



DRUTGOIST S RECEIPTS. 



I Inflamiiatory Rheumatism.— Sulphur and saltpetre, of each I 
oz. ; gum guuiac, i oz. ; colcbicum rout, or seed, and nutmegs, of 
eaeh J oz. ; all to be pulverized ami mixed with simple syrup, or 
molasses, 2 oz. Dose, one teaspoon every 2 hours until it moves 
tho bowels rather freely ; then 3 or 4 times daily until cured. 

Rkmedy for Bueumatibm and Stifk Joints. — Strong camphor 
■sp'rila, Ipt. ; neat's-loot, coon, bear, or skiiak's oil, 1 pt. ; spirits of 
turpentine, J pt Shake the bottle when used, and api)ly 3 times 
daily, by pourmg on a little at a time, and rubbing in all you can 
for 20 or 30 miuut«i. 

Asthma Rbmbdivs. — Elecampane, angelica, comfrey, and spike- 
nard roots with hoarhound lops, of each 1 oz. ; bruise and steep in 
honey, 1 pt. Dose, a tablespoon, taken hot every few miiiutes, 
until relief is obtained, then several times daily until a ciira is 
effected. 

ANOTiiEtt. — Oil of tar, 1 dr. ; tincture of veratrura viride, 2 drs ; 
simple syrup, 2 drs. ; mix. Dose, for adults, 15 drops 3 or 4 times 
daily. Iodide of potassium has cured a bad case of asthma by 
tuking 5 gr. doses 3 times daily. Take | oz. and put it into a phi.'il, 
and add 32 teaspoons of water ; tlijn 1 teaspoon of it will contain 
tho 5 grs., which put into J gill more water, and drink before 
meals. 

Composition Powder— Tuo.mi'son's. — Bayborry bark, 2 lbs. ; hem- 
lock bark, 1 lb. ; ginger root, I lb. ; cayenne pe})[)er, 2 oz. ; cloves, 2 
oz. ; all finely pulverized and well mi.\cd. Do.so, J a teaspoon 
of it, and a sjjoou of S'lgar ; put tiiem into a tea-cup, and pour it 
half full of boiling w*fer ; Ictit standa f^w mi lutes, and fill the cup 
wi!h milk, and drink freely. If no milk is to be obtained, fill ap 
the ©up with hot water. 

FiiENCii RioMEDY FOR CiiRONic RHEUMATISM.— Dr. Bounet of Graul- 
bet, France, statC3 in a letter to the** Abuille Medicale," that he lias 
been long in the habit of prescribing '' the c.^se itial oil of tarpentin.? 
by friction fur rhvnim Uiim ; and that he has used it himself 
with perfect success, having almost iusta itaneously got rid of 
rhoumatio pains in both knees and in the left shoulder." 

Diuiiurics— Pills, Drops, DiiCocriON, <ic. — Solidified copaiba, 2 
parts ; alcoholic extract of cubebs, I part ; formed into pills witli a 
little oil of juniper. Dose, 1 or 2 j)ills 3 or 4 times daily. This pill 
has beea found very valuable In affections of the kidneys, bladder, 



ana uroinra, as inn;unraaiion trom gravel, gonorrfioea, gleet, wlntes, 
leuconhinu, common inflammations, «fec. For giving them a sugar 
coat, SCO tiiat headinjr, if desired. 
DiunETic D;»0P8. — Oil of cubebs, { oz. ; sweet spirits of nitre, J 



OK.; balsam of copaiba, 1 oz. ; Harlem oil, 1 bottle ; oil of lavender, 
20 drops } spirits of turpentine, 20 drops ; mix. Dose, 10 to 25 
drops, as tho atoniAcii will bear, three time.^ daily. 

It may be u»ed in any of the above diseases with great satisfac- 
tion. 

DrcRKTio TixcTURB. — Grccn or growing spearmint mashed, put 
into a bottle, and covered with gin, is an excellent diuretic. 

DiUHEiic FOR Chiluubx.— Spirits of u;tre~a few drops in a little 
spearmint tea — is all sufncirnt. For very youn^ children, 
puniiikin-sced, or water-melon ."^eed tea is perliaps the best. 



druggist's EECEIPT8. 



54a 



Maonrtio Pain Killkb, fob Toothachh and Aoutb Pain. — Lau- 
da uim 1 dr. gum camphor 4 dra. oil of ulovea^ dr. oil of iaveuder 
1 dr. add then to I oz. alcohol, 6 drs. sulphuric ether, au-^. "5 fluid drs. 
chloroform. Apply with liut, or for toothache ruh o i the guma, 
and upou the fnco against the teeth. 

CuKd roR Snake Bites. — The Inspector of Police in the Bengal 
Government nports that of 939 cases in which ammonia waa freely 
administered 7o2 victims have recovered, and in the cured instancea 
the remedy was not administered till about 3i^ hourd after the 
attack, on the average of the fatal cases the corresponding duration 
of time was 4j hours. 

NiTKOCs OxiDii, ou LAuoniNo Gas. — Take two or three ounces of 
nitrate of ammonia in crystals and put it iuto a retort, taking care 
thut the heat does not exceed 500" ; when the crystals begin to melt, 
the gas will be produced in considerable quantities. The gas may • 
also be procured, though not so pure, by pouring nitric acid, diluted 
with five or six times its weiffht of water, on copper tilings or small 
pieced of tin. The gas is givon out till the acid begins to turn 
brown ; the process must then be stopped. 

To Lniialk the Laughing Gas. — Procure an oiled or varnished 
Bilk bag, or a bladder, furnished with a stop-cock into the mouth 
and at ilii! same time hold the nostrils, and the sensation produced 
will bo of a highly pleasing nature, a great propensity to laughter, 
a rapid liuw of vivid ideas, and an unusual fitness for muscular 
exertion, are thoordiiuiry feeling wiiich it produces. The sensation, 

Erodiiced by breathing tliis gus, are not the same in all persons, 
ut th"y are of an agreeable nature, and not followed by any 
depression of spirits like those occasioned by fermented liquors. 

(JiiKwiNa Gt'M. — Take of prepared balsam of tolu, 2 oz. white 
sugar 1 oz. oatmeal 3 ozs. soften the gum in a water bath and mix in 
tho ingredi'iits; then roll in tiuely-powdered sugar or flour to form 
sticks to suit. 

Black !>tkncil Ink. — Triturate together 1 pt. pine soot and 2 pts 
Priurfian blue with a little glycerine, then add 3 pta. gum arable 
and iiiflicieut glyceiine to furin a thin paste. 

RuMEDY Fou Small Pox.— Sulphate of zinc 1 gr. foxglove 
[digitalis,] 1 gr. sugar J|^ tcaspoouful, mix with 2 teaspoonfuls of 
waier, adtl 4 oz. of water, dose I spoonful every hour, child in pro- 
porliuu. From experience it is known that nothing will break up 
this frightful disease sooner than continued and persevering bath- 
ing witli tlie water at a comfortable temperature. Sec page 254. 

Tlie four following receipts are said to be genuine. 

Ayeii's Wild Cheury Expectorant. — Mix together Sgrs. acetate 
of morithia, 2 fluid drs. tiuct blood-root, 3fluid drs. each antimonial 
wine and ipecacuanha wine, and 3 fluid ozs. syrup of wild cherry 
bark. Dose 1 teaspoonful in catarrh, bronchitis, and influenza. 

Radwav's Ready Relief. — According to Peckolt, is an ethereal 
tincturii of capsicum, with alcohol and camphor. 

Radwav's IlRNovATiNa Rksolvent. — A vinous tincture of ginger 
am! oar'lamom, swecMened wiih sugar. 

Av;;i<'.i ^r'lAus.MMiMLLA. — Tiike 3 fluid oz"?. each of alcohol, fluid 
ext,;ir(;j! 01 sarsparilla and of siilliagia ; 2 fluid ozs. each, exiracl of 



yellow-duck and of podiii)liyllin, 1 
polusdiuiu.und 10 grs. imli.li' of iron. 



oz. sugar, 5)0 grs., iodide of 



>f' 



1 



f'l 



il 



[Ah 



PRUOCHST'a EECElPTa. 



Inhaxation op Tak ron Consitmptton.— Mix together i(? ozs. of 
liquid tur aud 1 fluid oz. liquor of jot'isya, hoil I Ik in f'T a f w 
minutes in the oi't'ii air, then let it ?iniiner in an irtri vcisfl (-vera 
spirit or other lamj> in the ch.iiub' r of tiio ]>a;ien'.. This innv ai 
lir-it excite H disjHJ.ntion to couirh, but m a short t'lue ir aliiijsii, 
and reirioves any tcri'Jency to it. 

Oancek (Jl'HK. — Drink a tea made from the tops of red clover; 
about 1 qt. per day ?!iould be tiilien internally, au'l ihe t(a shouhl 
be used ...i a wash twice per day ; very strongly recommended. 

Tavlou's Remedy koh l)EAK.vI'iSS.— Digest 2 ozi. bruised ):arlic in 
1 lb. oil of almonds lur a week and siram. A drop poured into tiio 
ear is effective in temporary deafness. 

CuKK KoK Earacue.— Take eq lal parts of chloroform and la'.ida- 
nam, dip a piece of cotton into the mi.xture and introduce into liie 
ear, and cover up and got to nleep a.^ .-oon as juissible. 

Ottawa Root Uekh. T.'ike 1 o?.. emh ot sa-.safras, all.-pice 
yellow-dock and winter gre^n ; ^ oz. eaeh wild clieny i)ark aiid 
coriander; \ oz. hop.s and :i qis. niolii'sej. I'our stidicient boi'.Mig 
water on the iiigredient.s and let ihotu stand lit hour? fdter tlie 
liquor and add i pt. ye.vst, ajid it is ready for u-e in 24 liour^, 

To J'iXriiACT Ks.si.NTiAi, Oil kuom \Vooii, LJakk^, Roots IlKun;, itc. 
— Take J)alni, mint, sage, or any (>thcr herb, ;cv-., put it int') a 
bottle, and jiour upon it a 3po;:nful of ether; k;n-p in a cool place 
a few iMjiirs, aud ilun fill ihe l)ottle with cold wa(er ; tlie essential 
oil will swim ujion the surfu;;.' and may be easily separated. 

FuMi!>ATiN(} I'apk::. — Dij) li;^ht pairr in a .s.dution of alum, 
B'.reagth of alum 1 oz. water 1 pt. Dry tiioroughly arid on oie 
side spread a nii.vtnre of Kpial pajis of gum l«enzoin, (liii)anuiii, or 
Peruvian l)ttl3ani, molt tiiegums in a i eartiienw.uv dish andspri'.id 
with a hot spatida, sli|)S of Ihe paper are ludd over a li;.;lil when 
the odorous matter will be evaporated, the ulum preventing the 
paper trimi ignilitig. 

TuANSP iiKNT Ckmk.vt poit Glas.-5. — Di-'solvc 1 part ludian rubber 
in chiorof'irm, and add 1(3 parts by measure of gum nuistic i i 
jKnv(K;r. Digest for 2 days, Hhakitig tlie bottle frequently, apply 
with a fini" camel's hair brush. 

Mouth Wash. — ^i'roof spirit.-s 1 qt. borax and honoy, of each 1 oz. 
gmn myrrh 1 oz. red .-anders wood 1 oz. Ri;btlie honey and bora.x 
well together in a mortar, then gradu.ally add the spirit, the myrrh 
aud Sanders w od and macerate It day.s. 

Cami'IIok Soaps. — Curd soap 28 lbs, otto of rosemary \\ lbs. 
Ri'duee the cain])!ior to powd<T, add one ounce almoad oil then 
Bif't it, when the soap is melted and ready to turn out, a<hl the 
camplior and rosemary 

WiUTK WiNDaoK 8o.\r-. — Curd soap 1 cwt. marine soap 21 lbs. oil 
t;oap 14 lbs, oil cara^iay, U, 1!m. oil tlsvme and rosemary of cacii 
J lb. oils ol cassia and cloves of each i lb. 

Brown Windsou Soap.— Curd soap J cwt. marine soap i cwt. 
yellow soHp \ cwt oil soap, i cwt. Hrown coloruig (caramel) ^pt. 
nil.cnraway, cloves, thyrne, cassia, petit grain and French laven- 
der ut cAca i oz, 

Sand Soap.— Curd .soap 7 Iha. marine snap 7 lbs. sifted silver soup 
83 lbs. oils thyme, cassia caraway aad French lavender of each ?. oz. 



lb. 



DRUGGIST B RECEIl-TS. 



5I» 



Drovsy. — Strcp and Pills. — Quecn-of-the-meadow root dwarf- 
elder flower^', berries, or inner bark, juniper berries, horsc-radisb 
rout, i)o(l luilkwecd, or silkweed, often called, root of each, 4 oz. 
[.rickty-asb bark or bon-ics, mandrake root, bittorKweet bark, of the 
root of oMcb, 'I oz. ; white-mustard seed, 1 oz. ; Holland gin, 1 nt. 
I'our boiling water upon all except the gin, and keei) hot for 
12 hours; then boil and pour olf twice, and boil down to 3 qts., 
Hiid ritrain, adding 3 lbs. of sugar, and lastly the gin. Dose, take 
all tlu! stoniacli will bear, any a wine glass a day, or more. 

DiioPSY PiLLB. — Jalap, 50 gra. ; gamboge, 30 grs. ; podophyllin, 
20 grs. ; elatarinm, 12 gr.s ; aloes, .'!0 grs. ; cayenne, 35 grs. ; Castile 
HO'ij', Hhftved and pulverized, 20 grs. ; croton oil, 90 drops ; powder 
all liiiely, and mix thoroughly ; then form into pill mass, by using 
a thick mucilage made of equal parts of gum arabic and gum 
trii{rarr"Mh, and divide in three-grain pills. Dose, 1 pill every 2 
liay.-^ f )r the first week ; then every 3 or 4 days, until the water is 
('Viieuatcd by the combined aid of the pill with the alum syrup. 
Tliirf is a powerful niedicinc, and will thoroughly accomplish its 
wi;rk, 

Livna Pill. — Lepfandrin, 40 grs.; podophyllin and cayenne, 30 
gr4. each; sanguiuariu, iridiu, and ijiecac., 15 ^r.-^. each ; sec that 
all are i)iilveriz ' and well niiiod ; then form into jiill mas.'^ by 
using \ dr. of iho soft extract of iiiaiulrake and a uw drops of 
anise oil, then roll out into tliree-grain pillr^. Done, 2 pills taken 
at bod-time will generally operate by morning; but some jwrsons' 
req'.;ire 3. 

liiKiTATiNO Plaster. — Extensively Ubkd bv Eclkctics. — Tar, 1 
lb. j burgundy pitch, \ oz. ; white-pine turpentine, 1 oz. ; resin, 2 
oz. IJoil the tar, resin, and gum together a short time, remove 
from the lire, and stir in linoly pulverized mandrake root, blood 
root, j)<)ke root, and Indian turnip, of each, 1 oz. 

I'iLi,.s.— To St'OAU ('oiT. — Pills to be sugar coated must be very 
dry, lierwise liiey w ill shrink away from tlie coating, and leave 
it a shell easily crusiied off. When they are dry, you will take 
starch, guin iinibic, and wliite sugar, equal parts, rubbing then: 
very line In a marble mortar, and if damn, they must be dried 
before rubbing together; then put the powder into a suitable pan, 
or box, for shaking; now put a few pills into a small tin box 
having a cover, and pour on to them just a little simple syrup, 
shaking well to moisten the surface only ; then throw into the box 
of pijwder, and keep in motion until completely coated, dry, and 

BUl'lOth. 

If you arc not verj' careful, yon will get too much ?yrup upon 
the i)ill,-; ; if you do, put in moie, and be quick about it to prevent 
nioistening the pill too much, getting them into the powder a3 
soon H3 possible. 

PosiTivB CuiiPi FOR II-YDBOPHCBIA. — The dried root of elecampane, 
pulvorize it, and measure out 9 heaping. tablespoonfuls, and mix it 
with 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of pulverized gum arabic; then divide into 
9 cqr.al portions. When a ponou is bitten by a rabid anlTrj-il, tiikc 
on-! of ui^^se portions, and steep it in 1 pt. of new milk, uiiiil 
nearly lialf the quantity of milk is evaporated; then strain, and 
drink' it in the morning, fasting for 4 or 5 hour;-< after. The same 



:f 



i ; 



56 



DRUGOIST S RECEIPTS. 



i^ 



^tl 



dose is to bo repeated 3 mornings in succession, then skip 3, anr, 
80 Oil, uutil llic 9 dorft's uro tukcu. 

The patient must avoid getting wet, or the heat of the sun, and 
abstain from high-seasoned diet, or hard exercise, and, if costive, 
taliu a dose of salts The above quantity is for an adult ; children 
will taice less according to age. 

Eyb Fkkpauations.— Eye Watbr, — Table salt and white vitriol, 
of each 1 tablespoon; heat them upon copperplates or in earthet 
ware until dry ; ihe heating drives otF the acrid water, called the 
wa*jr of crystallisation, making them much milder in their action; 
now add to them soft water i pt. ; putting in white sugar, 1 table- 
spoon ; blue vitriol, a piece the size of a common pea. If it should 
prove too strong in any case, add a little more soft water to a 
phial of it. Apply it to the eyes 3 or 4 times daily. 

India Prescuiption for Sorb Eyks. — Sulphate of zinc, 3 grs. ; 
tincture of opium (laudanum), 1 dr.; rose water, 2 oz. ; mix. Put 
a drop or two in the eye, 2 or 3 times daily. 

ANOTiMR.^Julphate of zinc, acetate of lead, and rock salt, of 
each i oz. ; loat sugar, 1 oz. ; soft water, 12 oz. : mix without 
heat, and use as other eye waters. 

If sore eyes shed much water, put a little of the oxide of zinc into 
a phial of water, and use it rather freely. This wili soon effect a 
cure. 

Copperas and water has cured sore eyes of long standing ; and 
used quite strong, it makes an excellent application in erysipelas. 

Indian Eve Water. — Soft water, 1 pt. ; gum nrabic, 1 oz. ; white 
vitriol. I oz. ; fiue salt, \ teaspoon ; put all iuio a bottle, and shake 
until dissolved. Put iito the eye just as you retire to bed. 

Black Oil. — Best alcohol, tincture of arnica, Britishroil^nd oil 
of tar, of each 2 oz. ; and slowly add sulphuric acid, i oz. 

These black oib are getting into extensive use as a liniment, and 
are indeed valuable, especially in cases attended with much iuilam- 
mation. 

Vermifdob Lozenoes.— Santonia GO grs. ; pulverized sugar, 6 
oz. ; mucilage of gum tragacanth, sufficient to make into a thick 
paste, worked carefully together, that the santjuiu shall be evenly 
mixed throughout the whole mass; then, if not in too great a 
hurry, cover up the mortar in which you have rubbed them, and 
let stand from 12 to 24 hours to temper; at which time they will 
roll out better than if done immediately ; divide into 120 lozenges. 
Dose, for a child 1 year old, 1 lozenge, night and morning ; of 2 
years, 2 lozenges; of 4 years, 3 ; of 8 j'ears, 4; of 10 years or 
more, 5 to 7 lozenges ; in all cases, to be taken twice daily, and 
continuing until tho v.orms start on a voyage of discovery. 

Harlkm ()il or Wblsu Medicamkntum. — Sublimed or flowers of 
sulphur and oil of amber, of each 2 oz. ; linseed oil, 1 lb. ; spirits 
of turpentine sufficient to reduce all to the consistence of thin 
molasses. Boil the sulphur in the linseed oil until it is dissolved, 
then add the oil of amber and turpentine. Dose, from 15 to 25 
drops, morning and evening. 

Among;t the Wol^h and Gfrmans it is extensively used for 
Strengthening the stomach, kidnfys, liver, and lungs ; lor astlwua, 
shortueas of breath, cough, inward or outward sores, dropsy. 



DRUaaiST 8 RE0EIPT8. 



57 



worms, gravel, fevors, palpitation of the heart, jriddiaos?, head- 
ndif, Ac, by takin^r it internally ; and fir ulcers, malipmint nores, 
cii.ik' i-, &'•., iiii.dnting fxteruully, and wetting liueu witli it, 
ttini ju'iilvinc to Imriia. 

KoYrriA.v ('uuk Ti>H Cholbra. — Best Jamaica pinger root, bruis- 
ed, 1 oz. ; cayeii le, 2 teaspoons ; boil all in 1 qt. of water to ^ 
pt., aid add loaf sugar to form a thick syrup. Dose, 1 tablc- 
siioon every 15 minutes, until vomiting and'purg'ng ceases ; then 
follow up with a blackberry tea. 

Iniiian Phksckii'tion kor Cmolrra. — First diusolvogum camphor, 
J oz., in li oz. of alcohol; second, give n, tca.-<poon of spirits of 
hftrtshorn i;i a wine glass of water, and follov/ it evorv 5 nimutcs 
with 1.') drotis of the camphor in a teaspoon of water, for Sdos-'s; 
tiini wait )5 minutes, and commence again ac before ; and con- 
tinue the camphor for 30 minutes, unless there is returning heat. 
Should this be the case, give one more dose, and tlic cure is cffeQt- 
ed; let them perspire freely (which the medicine is designed to 
ciu-ii>), RS upon this the life depends, but add no additional 
clothing. 

IsTiiMrg Cnoi.ERA Tincturb — Tincture of rhubarb, cayenne, 
opium, and spirits of camphor, with essence of peppermint, equal 
]iiirts of each, and each as strong as can be made. Dose, from 5 
to 30 drops, or even to CO, and repeat, until relief is obtained, 
every 5 to 30 minutes. 

Kino of On,.s, kor Nkuralgia and Rhettmatism. — Burning fluid, 1 
pt. ; oils of cedar, hemlock, sassafras, aid origanum, of each 2 
oz. ; carboniito of ammonia, jiulverized, 1 oz. ; mix. Directions. — 
Apply freely to the nerve and gums around the tooth ; and to the 
face, in n'Miralgic pain.-?, by wetting brown paper and laying on 
the part^-, not too long, for fear of blistering, — to the nerves of 
teeth by lint. 

NKiRAi/iiA. — iNTRTiNAf, REMEnv. — Sal-ammoniac, J dr., dissolve 
in water 1 oz. Dose, one tablespoon every 3 minutes, fi)r 20 
minute.'^, at the end of which time, if not before, the pain will have 
disappeared 

Artificial Skiv. — For Burns, Bruises, Abrasions, &c. — Proof 
aoain.-^t Water. — Take gun cotton and Venice turpentine, equal 
jxirt.s of each, and dissolve them in 20 times as much sulphuric 
ether, dissolving the cotton first, then addi ig tho turpentine ; keep 
it corked tightly. Water does not aflFect it, hence its value for 
cracked nipples, chapT»ed hands, surface bruises, Ac, Ac. 

I.NDiAN Balsam. — Clear, pale rosin, 3 lbs., and melt it, adding 
spirits of turpentine, 1 qt. , balsam of tolu, 1 oz. ; balsam of fir, 4 
oz. ; oil of hemlock, origanum, with Venice turpentine, of each, 1 
oz. ; strained honey, 4 oz. ; mix well, and bottle. Dose, 6 to 12 
drops ; for a child of six, 3 to 5 drops, on a little sugar. The dose 
c:in h>^ varied according to the ability of the stomach to bear it, 
and the necessity of the case. 

It is a valuai)lo preparation for coughs, internal pains, or strains, 
and workrt benignly upon the kidneys 

Wkns— To CtTK. — Dissolve copperas in water to make it very 
strong; now take a pin, needle, or sharp knife, and i>rick, or cut 
tliC wen in about a dozen places, just suilicient to cause it to 



¥'^ 



w 



5B 



DRUGOIST'8 reoeiptb. 



bleed ; then wet it thoroughly with the copperas water, oncKs 

daily. 

HrtoxcnocBLB.—E.vLAiioED Neck.— To (^URE.— lodido of potassiiiin 
(often called laydriodate ot' potash), 2 drs.; iodai*-, 1 dr. ; water, 2ft 
oz. ; mix and ehako a few mimitcri, aud pour a little iato a phial 
for internal use. Doeo, 5 to 10 drops before each meal, to be 
taken in a little water. External Api-lication.— With a feather, 
wet the enlarged ucck, from the other bottle, night and morning 
until well. 

It will cause the scarf skin to peel off several times before the 
cure is perfect, leaving it tender, but do not omit the application 
more than one day at most, and you may rest assured of a cure, if 
a cure can be performed by any moans whatever. 

Dalby's Cakminativb.— Magnesia, 2 drs. ; oil peppermint, 3 drops ; 
oil nutmeg, 7 drops ; oil anise, 9 drops; tinct. cf eastor, 1^ dr.s.; 
tinct. of assafdetida, 45 drops ; tinct. of opium, 18 dro[>.s; eisence 
penny-royal, 50 drops; tinct. of cardamoms, 95 drops ; peppermint 



water, ' oz. : 

POSITIVK b 



mix. 



!LiiK FOR DiAViiiH(EA. — Take 2 wine glasses of vincgnr, 
and one tablespoonful of salt. Mix the whole thoroughly to 
dissolve tne salt. Add 7 to 10 drops of laudaimm. according ti) 
the age or strength of the patient, and give the whole at one tloso. 

Cuke Fou Aole. — Cut throe lemons into thin slices and pounil 
them with a v:iallet, then take enough coffee to make a quart, bod 
it down to a pint and pour it while (piite hot over the lemoua. 
Lot it stand till cold, then strain througii a cloth, and tjike tho 
whole at one dose, immediately after the chill is over, and bejote 
th2 fever comes on. 

To lupiiovE THE Voice. — Bccf wax, 2 drs. ; co]>aiba balsam, 3 drs. ; 
powder of liquorice root, 4 dr,. ; melt the coj^aiba balsam with the 
wax in a new earthen i';-' 'n ; wlien milted, remove them from 
the fire, and mijr in the powder ; make tlie pills of 'A grs. each. 
Two of these p'.lls to be taken occaaionally, 3 or 4 times a daj'. 
Very best known. 

ai(?NB OF Disease in Ciiildrkn. — In the case of a baby not yet 
able to talk, it must cry when it is ill. The colic makes a baby 
cry loud, long, and passionately, and shed tears — stopping fur a 
moment and beginning again. 

If the chest is affected, it gives one sharp cry, brooking off Ltume- 
diat«ly, as if crying hurt it. 

If the b.ead is affected, it cries, in «harj>, piercing thrieka, with low 
moans and wailt between. Or there may be quiet dozing, and starl- 
ings between. 

It id easy enough to perceive, where a child is attacked by djg- 
eaae, iimt there is some change taking place ; for either its skin will 
be dry and hot, its appetito gone ; it is stupidly sleepy, or fretful ■, 
and crying; it is'tliirsty, or pale and languid, »)r in some way ^ 
betray.s tluit something i.) wrung. When u'cliild vomits, or hii.^ii 
(1 aTliUia, or is costive and feven.di.i: IS owing to some der.iniromi'nt, 
anil needs atleulion. ibit tlioH" vjirions Pvmr'ioms ni'iv contin-ir 
lor II tlMy or two before t!ie nature of the (license ran b • defonn-'neil. 
A warm bath, warm drinks, etc . cando no harm, and mav help to 
determine the cjiuc. On coming out of tiie bath, aud being well 



druggist's receipts. 



59 



to 



rubbfd with the hand, the cki:i will show symptoms of rash, if It 

i3 u t^kin disease wliich hus commenced. By tbc appearance of the 
li-Ii, ihc ii;iiiiiv oi iiio <li^>a.c coii Le lriU,,(.d. Mciisli;3 are in 
ijhtflic-, d.iik red, aud cniiie out first abuut the face. If scarlet 
fcvi lis impending, tiie sliin will look a deep pink all over tlie body, 
th(iiit!;h most so nbnut iLe iioek and face. Chicken-pox shows 
ftvu-, biilnot p(>iiiueliruiiniu<<aL tho nose, and appearances of cold, 
us in measles, nor is there as mucli of a cough. iSesides, the spots 
are s-nialkr, and do not run much together, and are more diflFused 
over the wLole surface of the bkiu ] and enlarge into little blisters 
in a day or two. 

Let tlic room where the rhild is sick be shady, quiet, and cool. 
Be ciireful not to speak so suddenly as to startle the half-sleeping 
patient, and handle it with tlie greatest tenderness when it is neces- 
bary to inovL- it. If it m the lungs tliat sufl'er, have the little patient 
fonn what elevated upon the pillows for easier breathing, and do 
eveiyllung lo soothe aud make it comfortable, so as not to liavc it 
cry, and tlius dibtress its inflamed lungs. If the child is very 
venk, do not m(jve it too Fuddenly, as it may be startled into con- 
vul.-ions. In administering a bath, the greatest pains must be 
taken not to fnchlcn Jlie cinld. It should be put in so gradually, 
ai;d Ko aninstd by scmelliing placed in the water on purpose as 
to forget iis fear; keep u|i a good supply of fresh air, at a tempera- 
tiiie( f ah(,ut G0° Fah. If a hired nurse inu.st be had, select if possi- 
ble a W( man of intelligence, gentle and loving dispo.«ition, kind 
.•ind amiable nurmers, a .d tf a most pacific, unruffled, and even 
temper. Ifa being can be g( t ;,osse.>^.sed (f these angelic qualities, 
ai;d M'c believe there are uiiuiy such, you will be quite safe in 
intrusting to her rare tl e mai agenicnt of your sick child, or yourself 
citliiT, in case of sickness. SliO should not be under twenty-five 
nor over fifty-five, as between these two ages she will, if healthy, 
be in li*r full t-tiength and ci.ii aeity. 

Ilooi'i.No C(n(;ii.— To empty the child's stomach by a lobelia 
emetic, is the first step. After this make a syrup of sugar, ginger- 
r(ui, a little water, and enough lolielia tincture to produce a sliglt 
nausea. This, given two or tliree times a day, will loosen the cough 
very much. For croup remedy, s'^o " Lock jaw cure," and '* Croup 
cine." 

DiAKUiioiA. — Nothing is better for looseness of the bowels than 
tea made of ground baybtrry. Kweeten it well, and give a half- 
tea ciipfu' once in two hours, until the child la better. Bathing 
niwst ) ot be neglected. 

C'!i ic— Tins can be cured with warm injections, of simple soap- 
ruJs, or wiirni water with a wanning lincture in it. A little warm 
tea u;ay hi' given at tlie same time, and t!ie bowels nibbed. Every 
fumily should have a small and large syringe. Nothing is oftener 
Ucerlod, particularly in the «ire of cliihircn. 

FKVEu.--Where a criild lias a bunple lever from teething, or any 
oth>.:- ci'iii'e ri"i ronu'ctt'd wilii aeue disease, give a teuspoonful 
of yr ]) of rl:iib.>rl', u warm inj(M lion, aud sponge-baths. These 
Will g^'iierally bo all that is need'd. 

RicKKTK and ScuoKULA, — If children have either of these, or 
boili theac discaises, tt good, nutritive diet is a great essential. 



h I 



m 



dbuqoist's receipts. 



I : 



'!« 






Then the alkaline-bath, a little lime-water, saj a teasiyoon- 
ful three times a day, and out-door exercise, are the chief 
romcdies. 

Fits— Spasms — When these are brought on by indi,c,'*'t*tlon, pl.icn 
the child in a wann bath immodiatcly, give warm wiitei-, or u 
lobelia emetic, rub the skin briskly, etc , to get up an action. la 
Iwain disease the warm water is equally useful. In fact, unless 
the fit is constitutional, the warm bath will relieve the patient bjr 
drawing the blood to the surface. 

Enlarokmknt of thb Brain. — This chiefly nflfects children, and 
consists in an unnatural growth of the brain. The skull may 
grow with it, and there bo no symptoms of diseiiso, though children 
with this large brain are apt to die of some brain disease. Tlie 
symptoms of enlargement of the brain are, dullness of intellect, 
indifference to external objects, irritable temper, jiordimite 
appetite, giddiness, and habitual noadacho. S<»motime3 there are 
convulsions, epileptic fits, and idiocy. There is also a peculiar 
projection of the parietal bones in this disease. 

Treatnunt.—As much as possible, rejiress all ox'rf'iso of tlie 
mind. Do not suffer the child to go to school ; but i)ut it to tiie 
most active and muscular ex^'rcise in fiio opeu air. Tlio inonn'iit 
there is any heat 'v\ the top of the head, npjily c ild water, ic , or 
cold evaporating lotions. The diet should b' very simple, bp-ad 
and milk only, if, as the child grows up, the signs of di^iuase 
increase. 

Water IN THE Head. — Another disea-?p of children, a id especially 
of scrofulous children. It is inflammatory, and should bo early 
noticed. 

Symptoms. — Capricious appetite, a foul tongue, offensive broafh, 
enlarged, and sometimes tender b.diy, torjiid bowels, slooL^ lii^lit- 
coloredfrom having no bile, or dark from vitiated bile, fetid, sou!-- 
Braelling, slimy and lumpy. The child grows pu'.j an(J thin ; and 
ia heavy, languid, dejected ; it is fretful, irritabl' . uneasy, and a;it 
to be tottering in its gait. 

The disease may begin, after these symptoms, by pains in the 
head^ becoming more severe and trtqucut, sharp and shiotini,', 
causing the child to wake i a id shriek out. As the drowsy s'aie 
advance.^, the shriokinjr gives phu-e to moaning. There is gnat 
Stiffness in the back ot the neck, pain i i the limbs, tenderne.ss in 
the scalp, vomiting, si^'hing, intolerance of light, knitting of tiic 
brows, and increased disturbance of the stomach and bowels. This 
may last from ten to fourteen days, the patient growing more weak 
and peevish. 

Another form of attack is marked by acute pain in the head, high 
fever, convulsions, Hushed face, brilliant eyes, intoleranco of li^'ht 
and sound, pain and tenderness i:i the belly, stupor, great ir»"ita'bi. 
lity of stomach, causing retching and vomiting on every at ximpt 
to sit up. 

The third mode of attack i;^, very insidious— the early symntomj 
being so mild as hardly to b;- noticed. In thi-i case, t!ie coiivulsions 
or pnl-'y eome suddenly, with-'Ut notice, liringin<,' swTi juid umx- 
peeled .lestriiotion. In tlio lirst stage of the disease there is iu- 
oreuaed sensibility; in the second, decreased seusibility ; in the 



siiini, 







F 



pi: ICO 

, or u 



DRUaOIST'S RECEIPTS. 



61 



third, palsy, convulsions, squinting of ihe ejes, rolling of the head, 
stupor, and a rapid, thre.'ui-like pulse. 

Titut)iunt.—h\ the first stage, purging js very important, and 
must b' cuutiiuKMi for three or four days. An excellent purgative 
isthis : ! ulvirized scamiuouy, six grains : croton oil, four drops ; 
pulverized louf sugar, sixtceu teadpoonfulg. Rub well together 
iu a ruortar. Give one tearipoonfiil every hour or two, till it 
operates. Apply cold Avator or ice to the head. In the second 
stage put blisters upon the back of tbc neck, and one on the 
bowels, if very t'^nder. In tlie third stage use the warm bath, also 
alteratives and diuretics. For an alterative, use iodide of potas- 
sium, one dram ; water, half pn ounce ; mix. Thirty drops to a 
child seven years old every hour. For a diuretic, use tincture of 
digitali.s, one ounce ; syrup of squills, one ounce : mix. Ten drops 
fur a child seven years old every four hours. Tno patient should 
be kept v\ a dark room, away from all noise and excitement, and 
should lie upon a hair mattress, with his head somewhat elevated. 
The diet i i the first stage should be nothing more than gruel ; 
after tiiat, more nourishintr, buteasy r* digestion, such as beef-tea, 
plaiu chicken broth, animal-jellies, etc. At the same time the pa- 
tieut should be supporied by the cautious use of wine-whey, Vale- 
ria), or ten drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia every four 
Lours. 

Mi:mps. — This disease, most common among children, begins 
with soreness and sliil'iiess in the side of the neck. 8oon a swel- 
ling of the jiarutoid gland takes place, which is painful and con- 
tinues to increase for four or five days, sometimes making it diffi- 
cult to swallow, or open the mouth. The swelling sometimes 
comes on one side at a time, but commonly upon both. There is 
often heat and sometimes fever, with a dry skin, quick pulse, furred 
tongue, constipated bowels, and scanty and uigh-culurcd urine. 
The di.-^case is contagious. 

Trealm^■n^.—K^'v\^ tlie face and neck warm, and avoid taking 
cold. Drink warm herb-tea.s, and ittho sym}>toms are severe, 4 tx) 
G grs. of Dover's powder; or if there is costiveness, a slight physic, 
and oh.-icrvc a very simple diet. If the disease is aggravated by 
taking cold, and is very severe, or is translated to other glands, 
phy.^i(; must be used freely, leeches applied to the swelling, or cool- 
iu<; lotions and poultices Sweating must be resorted to in this 
•asc. 

fScARLET Featr 13 an Acute inflammation of the skin, both exter- 
nal and internal, and connected with an infectious fever. 

SympUmx. -The fever shows iiself betv/een two and ten days 
after cKpo.sure. On the pccond day of the fever the eruption comes 
out inniinuto pimples, which are either clustered together, or spread 
over the surface in a general bright scarlet color. The disease begins 
with langour, pains in the head, back, and limbs, drowsiness, 
nausea and chills, followed by heat and thirst. When the redness 
appears tho pulse is quick, and the patient is restless, anxious and 
often delirious Tlie eyes are red, the face swollen, and the tongue 
covered iti the middle with white mucus, through whicli are seen 
elevated points of extreme redness. The tonsils are swollen, and 
tiM throat is red. By the evening of the third or fourth day the 






62 



DllUQGIST H RECEIPTS. 



;ii' 



I 



ii 



redness has reached ita heiprbt, and the skin becomes moist, when 
the scarf-skin begins to come off in scales. 

In this fi'ver tlje flesh pufTs up so as to distend the fingers, and 
disligure the fm-o. As it progresses the coating siidd< nly ec.nies 
oir the tongiii', h-avinj? it and tho wliole mouth raw and tendur. 
The throat is very much swolli'i and iullauied, ftnd nlcers form on 
the tonsils. The eustachian tube which extends up to the ear, the 
glands under the oar and jaw, sometimes inflame and break; and 
the abscesses formed in tlie ear frequently occasion deafness more 
or less difficult to cure. The symptoms of this disease may 
be distinguished from that of measles by the absence of cough ; by 
the finer rash; by its scarlet color; by the rash anpearing on tho 
second instead of the fourth day ; and by the ulceration of the 
throat. 

Treatment. — In ordinary cases the treatment required is very 
simple. The room where the patient lies sliould be kept cool, and 
the bed-covering light. The whole body should be sponged with 
cool water as often as it becomes hot and dry. and cooling drinks 
should be administered. A few drops of belladonna, night and 
morning, is ail that is needed. 

If there is much fever and soreness of throat, give the following 
tincture of hellebore often enough to keep down the pulse : — 

Tincture of American hellel)ore, 1 dr. ; tincture of black cohosh, 
2 o2. ; mix. Take one teu.spoonful 3 to 6 times a day. 

It would also be useful to oommeuce treatment with an emetic; 
and to soak the feet and hands in hot water containing a little 
mustard or cayenne pei)per ; continuing this bath 20 minutes, 
twice a day, for 2 or 3 days. Tlie cold stage being ]iassed, and the 
fever having set in, warm water may be used without the mustard 
or pepper. If the head is allected, put drafts ni)()n the feet; and 
if tlio bowels be costive, give a mild physic. Solid food should not 
be allowed ; hut when tlie fcvi-r sets in, cooling drii ks, such as 
lemonade, taniarind-watt>r, rice-watir. liax.-ei-d tea, then gruel, or 
cold water may be given in reasonuble quantities. Tu stimulate 
the skin, muriatic acid, 4.5 drops in a tumbler filled with water 
and sweetened, and given in doses of a teaspoonful, is a good 
remedy. 

Where the disease is very violent, and the patient inclines to 
sink immediately ; where typhoid symi»toms aj)i>ear and there is 
great prostration ; the eruption ntrikis in; the hkin changes to a 
mahogany color: the tongue is u deep nd, or has on it a dark 
brown fur, and the ulcers in the iliroat become ]iutrid, tho treat- 
ment must be different from tlie above. In this case it must l-o 
tanic. Quinia must be prvu frcoly; and wine whey, mixed with 
toast-water, will 1;? useful. Quinia is made as follows ;— Sulphate 
of quinine, I scrui)le ; alcohol, 4 ozs. ; sulphuric acid, 5 drops; 
Madeira wine, 1 quart ; mix. Two wint-glassfuls a day. Tincture 
of cayenne, in sweetened water, miiy be given in small doses. 
Gargles are also necssury. A ^oo(\ one is made of pulvoriz*! 
cayenne, 1 dram ; .«alt., (.ne dram; boiling waior, 1 gill. iMix, and 
let them f-tand 15 miniites. Tht n add 1 (^ill vin-^p;ir. l.et if Htnnd 
an hour and strain. Put a tmspoonful in iW child's mouth oiw.' 
in an hour. A warm buth should be used daily oa soon aa the 



DRUaOlST's RECEIPTS. 



63 



whea 

and 

:idi.T. 
m on 
the 
;'and 
more 
may 
i;by 

)D tllO 

of the 

very 
ftnd 

with 
rinks 
and 



skin bopins to peel off, to prevent dropsy. If dropsy sets m, the 
bath once in 3 days is sufficient, and sweating Bhould be promoted 
by giviiij? tlio tincture ot Virginia snake-rout u d similar articles ; 
a gi'uerDiis dioi should be allowed at the samt; time, to bring up 
liie cljild'd strungth. 

Measles is an acute inflammation of the sKi i, internal and exter- 
nal, combined with an infectious fever. 

Symptoms. Chills succeeded by great heat, langour, and drowsi- 
ness, pains in the head, back and limbs, quick pulse, soreness of 
throat, thirst, nausea and vomiting, a dry cough, and high colored 
urine. These symptoms increase in violenct tnr four days. The eyes 
are iuHamed and weak, and the ncse ])Oiir:; fourth a watery secre- 
tion, with frequent 8neezit;g. There \-: considerable inflammation 
in the larynx, wind-pipe and bronchial tube?, with soreness of the 
breast and hoarseness. About the fourth day the skin is covered 
with a breaking out which ))roduces heal and itching, and is red in 
spots, upon the facelirst, gradually sjireading over the whole body. 
It goes off in the same way, from the face lirst and then from the 
body, and the hoarseness and other symptoms declinx. with it; at 
last the outside skin peels cff in scales. 

Treatment. In a mild form, nothing is required but a light diet, 
slightly acid drioks, and flaxseed or slipp- ry elm tea. Warm herb 
teas, and frequent sponge baths with tepid water, serve to allay' 
the fever; care should be taken not to let the patient take cold. u. 
the fever is very high, and prevents the rash coming out, a slight 
dose of salts, or a nauseating dose of ipecac, lobelia, or hive-syrup 
should be given, and followed by teaspoonful doses of compound 
tincture of Virginia snake-root until the fever is allayed. If the 
patient from any derangement takes on a low typhoid type of fever, 
and the rash does not come out until the seventh day, and is then 
of a dark and livid color, tonics and stimulants must be given, 
and expectoration promoted by some suitable remedy. There is 
always danger of the lungs being left in an inflamed state after 
the lut asles, unless the grcatt^st care is taken not to suflfer the pa- 
tient to tjikc cold. Should there be much soreness or pain, and a 
severe cough, this must be treated as a separate disease, with other 
remedies. 

Syinptomt. TvpnoiD Fkvkr is generally preceded by several days 
of languor, low spirits, and indisposition to exertion. There is 
alflo, usually, some pain in the back atid head, lo.s3 of api)etite, and 
drowsiue-ss, though not rest. The disease shows itself oy a chill. 
During the tirst week there is increased heat of the surface, fre- 
quent pulse, furred tongue, restlessness, sleeplessness, headache and 
pain in the back ; sometimes diarrhoja and swelling of the belly, 
and sometimes nausea and vomiting. 

The second week is often distinguished by small, rose-colored 
spots on the belly, and a crop of little watery pimples on the neck 
and chest, having the appearance of minute drops of sweat; the 
tonj^'iic is dry and black, or red and sore ; the teeth arc foul ; 
there maybe delirium, and dullnos-) of hearing ; and the yymptofns 
every wtiy are more serious than during the lirst week. Occasion- 
ally, t!ie bowels are at this period perforated or ate through by 
ulceration, and the patient suddenly sinka. If the discodo pro- 



64 GaCCERS AND CONPEOTlONtRS' RECEIPTS. 

cefda uttfavorably into the third week, there is low, mutterinff 
delirium; great exhaustion; slidiuK down of the patient toward 
the foot of the bed; ♦. witching of the musclea, bleeding from the 
boweli) ; and red or purtile spota upon the sic 

If, on the other hand, the patient improves, the countenance 
brightens up, the pulse moderates, the tongue cleans, and the dis- 
charges loot healthy. 



t. Give the patient good air, and frequent spongings 
with water, cold or tepid, as most agreeable. Keep the bowels ia 



Treatment. 



with water, coia or lepia, as mosi ugreeauie. ivt-ep lu 
order, and be more afraid of diarrbosa than ci^stiveness. Diarrlioea 
phould be restrained by a little brandy, or by repeated doses <f 
Dover's powder. For costiveness, give mild injections, made 
slightly loosening by castor oil, or common molasses. To keep 
dow:^ the fever, and produce p».,.'8piration, give tincture of vera- 
trura viride, 10 drops every hour. If the bowels are swelled, re- 
lieve them by hot fomentations of hops and vinegar If the pain 
in the head is very severe and constant, let the hair be cut short, 
and the head bathed frequently with cold water. Give li^rlit 
nourishment, and if the debilitj^ is great, broth and wine will he 
needed. Cleanse the mouth with very weak tea — oM hvson. If 
the fever runs a low course, and the patient is very weak, auinine 
may be given from the beginning. Constant care and goou nurs- 
ing are very important. 

Typhus fever is distinguished from typhoid by there being no 
marked disease of the bowels in typhus. 



\ii 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECETPTS. 

CiTKAP VmaoAii. — Mix 2r) g&h. of warm rain water with 7 pals, 
molasses and 5 gala, yeast, and let it ferment, you will soon have 
the best of vinegar, keep adding these articles in these proportions 
as the stock is sold. 

Fob Grccers' Sales —Take three barrels ; let one of them be 
your vinegar barrel ; fill this last up before it is quite empty, with 
molasses, 2 gals. ; soft water, 11 gals. ; yeast, 1 qt. ; keeping these 
proportions in filling up the whole three barrels ; sell the vinegar 
out of your old vinegar barrel as soon as it is ready, which will 
be in a short time ; when nearly ^mpty. fill it up with the fluid as 
before, and pass on to sell out f ihe next barrel ; by the time 
it is di8po>ied of go on to the last; theu etc back to the first, filling 
up your barrels in every case when nearly empty, and you will 
always keep a stofk of good vinegar on aand unless your sales are 
yery large ; in which case, follow the next process. Have the 
bung-holes open in the harrels to admit air. 

ViNKOAH IN Thkre Days.— Get a quantity of marie, beech, ot 
baaswood chips or shflvings, and soak these in trood vino<'nr for 
two or three days. With these chips you w-ll fill a barrel, wliicli 
has been pierced with a large number of inch holes all arou id the 
sides for the free admis3iv)n of air amoi .,' the chips (the more hole* 
in the barrel the better, for the r^ore r.i'.' the sooner the vinruar 



(IROCEHS AND CONFEOTIONEBS' RECEIPTS 



65 



els ia 
irrlioca 
)se9 ('( 
made 
keep 
vera- 
cd, re- 
10 pain 
sliort, 
; lijrlit 
will be 
)n. If 
quinine 
nurs- 



will be made) ; cut another barrel in two halves, place one half 
below the barrel with the chips and the other half above it. The 
toj) tub must have its bottom piiTccd with a number of gimlet 
holes, iu which are placed several threads of twine, to coiuluct the 
vinegar eveuly over the chips. The liquid drains down slowly 
throuj^'h ihe chips and out of a faucet near the bottom of the bar- 
rel into the lower tub. Itsliould run through every four honris, 
ami then be baled or pumped l)ack. Directions to make vinegar 
from 5iigar : Use 1^ lb. to each gal. of water ; of the dregs of 
molasses barrels, use 2 lbs. to each gal. water ; small beer, lager 
beer, ale, &c , which have become sour, make good vinegar by 
being reduced with water • small beer needs but little water, lager 
beer as much water as bevr ; to 2 gals, cider .idd J gal. of water ; 
you can also make excellent vinegar out of the artificial cider men- 
tioned below. Use, in every case, .soft water to make vinegar, and 
use 2 qts. yeast to every barrel. It makes much quicker if the fluid 
is slifrhtly lukewarm. Ltach either of these preparations through 
the shavings. 

This process should be attended to during warm weather, or in 
a room wliere a pretty high temperature is kept up, as it will not 
work otherwise. 

ExcKLLE.NT ViNEQAH, CuEAP. — Acetic acid, 5 lbs. ; molasses, 1 
gal. ; yeast, 2 ([is ; jiut them into a forty-gal. cask, and fill it up with 
rain water ; .«tir it up, and let it stand one to three weeks, letting 
it have all the air possible, and you will have good vinegar, u 
wanted strotigor, add more molasses. Should you at any time 
have weak vinegar on hand, put molasses into it to set it working. 
This will soon correct it. 

Wiini; Wink Vinkoar. — Mash np 20 lbs. raisins, and add 10 gali?. 
water ; let it stand in a warm' jtlace for one month, a:id you will 
have pure white wine vinegar. The raisins may be used a second 
time the same way. 

To PiiKsEwvE Egos. — To each patent pailful of water, add 1 pt. 
of fresh slacked lime, and 1 pt. of conmion salt ; mix well. Fill 
your barrel half fill with this fluid, ])ut your eggs down in it any 
time after June, and they will kec)* two years if desired. 

Ln;uiD Mif'iLAOE. — Fine clean glue, 1 lb. ; gum arnbic, 10 oi. ; 
water. ! qt. ; molt by heat in a glue kettle or water bath ; when 
entirely ni'lted, add slowly 10 oz. strong nitric acid, set off to 
cool. Then bottle, adding a couple of cloves to eacii bottle. 

B.AKiNO I'owuKUH, vi'n/ hcdUhif — Making soda, G lbs. ; creara of 
tartar, H lb; Dry each kitul separably and thoroughly then mix 
all together and put up in dani)) proof jtackagcs. gliuss or tin i;? best, 
to he iise(l iu the proportion of 1 teaspoonfiil to each qt. of Hour, 
mix up with cold water aid jiut in the oven immediately. 

Ca.vdif.d T-i:mon Peici,.— Take lemon peels and boil them in syrup ; 
then take them out, and dry. 

Ti{.\NSPAurNT Soap.— Slice G lb=!. nice yellow b.ar-soap into shav- 
ings ; put into a brass, tin or coy. per kettle, with alcohol, j gal. 
heatiii!: gradually over a ,«low tire, sliirin'/ till nil is dissolved; 
then add I oz. sa3.«afras essence, and stir until all is mixed; now 
pour into paini about 1 A inches deep, miuI when cold cut into .square 
bars the length or widtli of the pan, as ilesircd. 



't\'M 
I 






i 



n^ 



i 



1 



\ \ 



66 



QROCEBS /ND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



ENOLisn BAn-SoAP.— Six gals, soft water ; 6 lbs. ^ood stone lime; 
20 lbs. sal-soda ; 4 oz. borax; 15 lbs. fat (tallow is beat) ; 10 lbs. 
pulverized resin, and 4 oz. bces'-wnx ; put llie wafer in a keiile on 
the fire, and when noarlv boiling iidd the lime and Bod:i; when 
these are dissolved, add the borax ; boil gently, and stir un il all is 
dissolved ; then add the fat, resin, and bee.s-wax ; boil all gently 
until it shows flaky on the stick, then j'our into moulds. 

Best Soft Soap.— Mix 10 lbs. jiotash in 10 gals, warm soft water 
over night ; in the morning boil it, adding G lbs. grease ; then put 
all in a bairel, adding 15 gals, soft waer. 

Soap wituout Lyk oh uueask. — In a dean pot put | lb. linrne- 
made hard or raush soap, and } lb. sal-soda, and 5 pts. of soft water. 
Boil the mixture 15 minutes, and you will have 5 lbs. good 3oap 
for 7i cents. 

Habd Soap. — Take 5 lbs. hard soap, or 7 lbs. soft soap, and 4 lbs. 
Bal-soda, and 2 oz. borax, and 1 oz. harts-horn ; boil one quarter 
hoqr with 22 qts. water ; add, to harden, I 11). resin. 

German Yellow Soap. — Tallow and sal-soda, of each 112 lbs., 
resin, 6G lbs. ; stone lime, 2H Ihg. j palm oil, 8 oz. ; oft -.vater, 28 
gals. Put soda, lime, and water into a kettle and boil, stirring 
well; then let it settle, and pour off the lye. In another kettle, 
melt the tallow, resin, and palm oil ; having it hot, the lye being 
also boiling hot, mix all together, stirring n,nd the work 

is done. 

Fob shall Quantities. — Tallow and sal-snda, each, I lb. ; resin, 
7 oz. ; stone lime, 4 oz. ; palm oil, 1 oz. ; soft water, I qt. 

Hard Soap with Lakd. — Sal-soda and lard, each 6 lbs. ; stono 
lime, 31bs. ; soft water, 4 gals.; dissolve the) lime and soda in the 
water by boiling, stirring, settling, and pouring off; then return to 
the kettle (brass or copper), and add the lard, and boil it till it 
becomes soap ; then pour into a dish or moulds ; and, when cold, 
cut into bars, and dry it. 

WniTE Hard Soap with Tallow. — I'Vesh slacked lime, sal-soda, 
and tallow, of each, 2 lbs. ; dissolve the soda in 1 gal. boiling soft 
water; now mix in the lime, stirrinj^ occasionally for a few hours; 
after which, let it settle, iiouring iff the clear liquor, and boiliufr 
the tallow therein until it is all dissolved ; cool it in a flat box or 
pan, cut into bars or cakes as iesircd. It may be perfumed 
with sassafras oil or any other perfume desired, stirring it in when 
cool. 

Onb Hcndrkd Pounds Soap, very cnE.\p. — Potash, G lbs. ; lard, 4 
lbs. ; resin, \ lb. Beat up the ri sio, mix all together, and set aside 
for five day? ; then put the who.'e into a 10-gal. cask of water, and 
stir twice a day for ten days, when it is ready for use. 

Solid Candles fkom Lauu. — Dissolve i lb. alum and i lb. salt- 
petre in i pt. water on a slow fire ; then take 3 lbs. (^f lard cut into 
small pieces, and put into the pot with this solution, stirring it con- 
stantly over a very moderate fire until the lard is all dis.-;olved; 
then let it simmer until all steam cejises to rise and r"'move it. -it 
once from the fire. If yon leave it too long it will get discolored. 
These candles are harder and better than tallow. 

Tallow — To Cleanse and Bleach. — Dissolve alum. 5 lbs. in 
water, 10 gals., by boiling ; and when it is all dissolved, add t^illow, 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



67 



20 11)9. ; continue the boiling for an hour, constantly stirring and 
ekitmuing ; when sufficiently cool to allow it, strain through thich 
niutlin ; then sol aside to harden ; when taken from the water, lay 
it by for a short time to drip. 

Imitation Wax Candles.— Purify melted tallow by throwing in 
powdered quick lime, then add two parts wax to one of tallow, and 
a most beuutiful article of caudle, resembling wax, will be the 
result. Dip tlie wick.s in lime water and saltpetre on making. To 
a gallon of water add 2 oz. saltpetre and ^ lb. of lime j it improves 
the light, and prevents the tallow from running. 

Adamantink Candlbs from Tallow.— Melt together 10 oz. mut- 
ton tallow ; camj)hor, i oz. ; bees-wax, 4 oz : alum, 'I oz. Very hard 
and durable, burning with a clear, steady light. 

Teas. — The names of the different kinas of tea relate to the timo 
of their being gathered, or to some j)eculiarity in their manufacture. 
It is a general rule, that all tea is fine in proportion to the tender- 
ness and immaturity of the leaves. The quality and value of 
the dififerent kinds diminish as they are gathered later in the 
season, 

liLACK Teas. — As soon as the leaf-bud begins to expand, it ia 

f[athered to make J'ekoe. A few days' later growth produces black 
eaved Pekoe. The next picking is called Souchoni/; as the leaveo 
grow larger und more mature, they form Cougou ; and the last pick- 
ing is livh-a. 

Jiohea is called by the Chinese, Ta-cha (large tea), on account 
of the maturity and size of the leaves ; it contains a larger propor- 
tion of woody fibre than other teas, and its infusion is of a darker 
color and coarser flavor 

Congou, the next higher kind, is named from a corruption of the 
Chinese Koong-Joa (great care, or assiduity). Thitf forms the bulk 
of the black tea imported, and is mostly valued for its strength. 

Soucho7i(f — Seaoa-choong (small scarce sort), is the finest of the 
strongest black tea, with a leaf that is generally entire acd curly. 
It is much esteemed for its fragrance and fine flavor. 

rekoe is a corruption of the ('an ton name, I'ak-ko (white down), 
being the first sjjrouts of the leaf-buds ; they are covered with a 
white silky down. It is a delicate tea, rather deficient in strength, 
and is principally n.sed for flavoring other teas. 

Gkekn Tkas.— The following are the principal kinds Twankay, 
Jlyson-Skin, Ilyson^ Gunpowder, and I'ouiig Jlgaon. 

Young llyson is a delicate young leaf, called in the original lan- 
guage, i'uAsien (before the rains), because gathered in the early 
spring. 

llyson, from the Chinese word Tlc-fchune, which means, flourisL- 
ing spring. This fine lea is gathered early in the season, and pre- 
pared with great care and labor. Each leaf is picked separately, 
and nipped off above the footstalks ; and every separate leaf is 
rolled in the hand. It is much esteemed for its flavor. 

(iunpowder Tea is only Hyson rolled and rounded to give it tha 
granular appearance whence it derives its name The Chinese call 
it Choo-ciia (i^earl tea). 

Jlyxon-Skin is so named from the Chinese term, in which con- 
nection .i*»« means the refuse, or inferior portion. In preparing 






■idi:i\ 



4 

"ill 



68 



aaOCERU AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



U! 



^ w 



I! 
I 



f« 



Hyson, all loaves that are of a coarse yellow, or imperfectly twiatcd 
appearance, are st'iwraled, and sold ad fdcin-tra, at an inferior price. 

Twan/cdi/ is ihv hist pickinj; of ^^rt't'n tin, and tin? leaf is notrolli'd 
or twisted us niiicii as the dearer descriptions. There is altogether 
less trouble bo.-^toweil on the jirejxiiiition. 

CoFFEKS.— Java Cofkek.— Use of the imported article, 20 Ihg.; 
dried dandelion root, 7 lbs.; chiccory, 13 lbs. Roast and grind 
well together. 

FoK West India, use rye roasted with a little butter, and ground 
very fine. 

Bou Turkey Coffee, use rice or wheat roasted with a little 
butter, 7 lbs. ; chiccory, 3 lbs. ; grind. 

EssKNCK OF CoFFKE is made by boiling down molasses till 
hard ; grind to a powder ; add i lb. of good Java collee to every 4 
lbs. of the mixture. Put up for sale in round tin cans or air-tight 
paper packages. 

Coffee fok Pocnd Packaoes. — Best Java coffee, 1 lb. ; rye, 3 
lbs. ; carefully clean the rye from all bad grains, wash to remove 
dust, dram off the water, ii'id ;iut the grain into your roaster, 
carefully stirring to brown it evenly. lirown the rye and eoff'e 
separately, grind, and put up in tight packages to preserve the 
ftroma. 

Manufactuuino and Fi-AVoitiNO Tobacco. — After the tobacco ia 
properly cured and sweated, you will, jirepiiratory to jjressiiig, 

firoceed to flavor it as follows : Take 1 oz. tonqua beans ; G oz. 
iquorice, 1 lb. sugar ; pulverize each completely ; add the ingre- 
dients to 1 gallon water. Macerate and runnnagc u[) for a fi'W 
days till the aromatic flavor is properly imparted to tlie liquid. 
Then spread out some tobacco leaves, aid slightly sprinkle them 
■with the above fluid till enough is absorbed to render them pliable. 
Then roll them up in round packages of such a size that ten 
will make 1 lb. ; then reduce them into flat plugs in a powerful 
press. A large number of such plugs are subseqiic«it,ly pres.-ed 
into blocks, when they ure ready for the market at (mmh;. The 
strength of^tlie above iicjuid may be increased or diluft'd as desired 
by the mamifacturer, and extract of vanilla may be srtbstittHicd for 
the tonqua bean. 

FiiAvoa FOB CiOAB Makers. — Take 2 ozs. tonqua beans and 1 
oz. cinnamon ; bruise and pulverize them to a j>owder, and jiut 
them into 1 pint of Santa Cruz rum ; let it st^ind for a few days to 
macerate ; stir all together, and with this liquid sprinkle youc 
common or inferior tobacco. Dry out of the sun, and the -lavor 
will be uneoualled. 

To Cdrk Butter.— Take 2 parts of fine salt; 1 part loaf sugar; 
1 part saltjictre ; mi.x cosipletely. Use 1 oz. of this mixture to 
each pound of butter ; work well. Hury your butter firkins in the 
earth in your cellar bottim, toj)S nearly level with tin; ground, or 
store away in a verv cool place, coviiriig the butter with n clean 
cloth and a strong brine on the top, and it will keep two years 
if desired 

1'm:i;i;!no Tr.sts for Good Flour. — Good flour is white, with n 
yellowisli or straw-cidored tint. Squeeze some of the Hour ii 
your huiid ; if good, it will retain the shai)e given by press mo. 






i 



i 



Ub^CERS AND C0NFECTI01,iJR« RECEIPXIc 



61; 



Knoad a littlo hetwoc. your (Infers ; if it works soft and sticky, it 
!M jKKir. Tlintw a little against a dry perpendicular surface; if it 
fall like powMliT, it i.-s bad. 

To ('((liiiKCT AlcsiY Flouh. — Carbonate of magnesia, 3 Iba. ; 
fioiir, 7<i5 lb:*. ; mix. Tiii.s improves bad Hour, causing it to be- 
c iiiu" more wholesdmo, producing lighter and better bread than 
wlicn alum is used, and aborbs and dissipates the musty smell. 

vMuATKn H';K.\n. — I lb. Hour, 100 grs. carb. of soda; GO grs. com- 
nioii salt ; 1 te!is[)()()n powdered sugar ; 120 grs. muriatic acid, more 
or Khs according to its stre igtb ; 1 wine pt. of water, inferior flour 
will ri'tpiire less. Widl mix the flour, soda, salt, and sugar in an 
eiirlnii vessel, then add the acid mixed with the water, stir with a 
wooden spoon. Hake in one loaf about 1 hour. IJake in tin or iron 
pans, but avoid the use of metallic vessels or spoons while mixing. 

{'atkntKklf Kaisino Flouh. — Kiln-dried Hour, 1 cwt, ; tartaric 
acid, 11^ oz. ; mix thoroughly. After 2 or .3 days, add, of bicarb. 
8(i(ia, if oz. ; lump sugar, ^ lb.; common salt, IJ lb. Mix, and 
pass through the "dressing-machine." Have all the articles per- 
t. etly dry, and separately reduce to fine powder before adding to 
ihf flour. Mix with cold water, and bake at once. It produces 
liirl,' Tul jMirous biead. 

ToM'.To (-ATSI r — Boil 1 btishel of tomatoes till they are soft; 
pcjiiirze them through a fniv, wire sieve; add Ij pts. salt, 2 oz. 
cavciinc pepper, and 5 heads of onions, skinned and separated; 
mix together, and boil till reduced one half; then bottle. 

TifK NoKTUEUN-Li(jirT Hi;nNiNO Fli'id. — Get good deodorized ben- 
7,in<'. ♦;<) to G5 gravity, and to each brl. of 42 gals, add 2 lbs. pul- 
verized al'im, 3 J oz. gum cani[)hor, and 3A ov.. oil of sassafras, or 
2 07.. oil lurganiot ; stir up and mix thorougnl, together, and it will 
soon he ready for use, N.H. — As this fluid creates a much larger 
volume of light and flame than carbon oil, it is necessary to uso 
either a high burner, such as the s'un burner, to elevate theHamo 
away from the lamp, in order to keep it cool, or instead thereof, to 
use a burner provided with a tabe for the escape of the gas gener- 
ated from the fluid, such, for instance, as the meridan burner. 

Testfou HiTiiNiNO Oil.— Heat water in a pot on the fire to 120** 
Fahr. Take a tin and put in it a tablespoonful of the oil yo i wish 
to test, place the tin containing the oil in the hot water, let it cool 
down to 112*^ Fahr. ; when .'it thisjioint, apjiroaeh a light very cau- 
tiously towanls the oil, and if it takes (ire before the light touches 
it you will be safe in rejecting it. 

Tahac 1*k' fd.mkk aux Fi.Krits is made by putting orange flowers, 
jasmi le?, tube roses, musk rose.s,^or common roses, to snuff" in a 
close chest or jar, sifiing them out after 24 hours, " ^ epeating if 
nece-sary. 

MAf'r\'nr>Y Rvrrp is imitated by moistening th tobacco with a 
mixture of treacle and water, and allowing it to fi. •r'.ent, 

Hi'anisii S.NLKF is made from unsifted Havana s luff, reduced by 
ndili'ig ground S/'iinh/i ?f»^'!/;(e//.'^,sprinklingthe mixture with treacle 
w "er, and allowing it to sweat f )r some days before packing. 

Vki.i.ow S.vfFF is prepared from ordinary jxi/e shm//", moistened 
with a mixture of yellow orhre diffused in water, to which a few 
bpooufuld of thin mucilage bos been added. 



^'''W 



»..-' 



m'. 



70 



UR0CEI18 AND CONFECTION KRH' RECEIl'TS. 






:il ! 






I 





1 


J; 


*' 




V 


; 








:; 


l1 






I 


, ii 



PitUFrMKfl Kou Sncff — Tonqua beans, essence of ditto, anihcrjyris, 
musk civet, loaves of orcliis t'lisca a:id es.'^euce of orris rootjesseiicu 
or oils of IxTganiot, cedra, cloves, lavender, pi-tit {,'raln, neroU uud 
roses, as well as soTeral (fliers, eitiier aluiie or eouipounded. 

PuKSKKVKD OB SoUDiFiKU MiLK. - I. Fre. !: .sklmiued milk, 1 j^al.; 
sesquicarbonaie of soda (in jiowder), 1 i dr. Mix ; evaporate to 1 part 
by heat of a steam or water-bath, with constant ajifitation ; tlicMi 
add of powdered sugar bj^ lbs. and complete the evaporation at a 
reduced temperature. Reduce the dry mass to powder, add the 
cream well drained, which was taken from the milk. After 
thorough admixture, juit the wliole i'lto well-sti)pi)ed bottles or 
tins, and hermetically seal. 2. Carbonate of soda, * dr. ; water, 1 
fluid oz.; dissolve; add of fresh milk, 1 qt. ; su}:c»vr, I lb. ; reduce by 
heat to the consistence of a syrup, and finish the evaporaiioM o i 
plates by exposure, in an oven hue rve— About 1 oz. ot the powder 
agitated with 1 pt. of water forms an agreeable substitute for 
milk. 

Sealino-wax, Rkd.— Shellac (very pale), 4 oz. ; cautiously melt 
in a bright coi)per pan over a clear charcoal fire; when fiHud, 
add Venice turpentine, l\ oz. Mix, and further add vermilion, 
3 oz. ; remove the pan from the tire, and pour into mould. For 
a black color, u^e ivory black, or lamiiblack, instead of tlui 
vermilion ; for a Idue color, use i'mssian blue instead of th« 
vermilion, same quantity. Each color must bo well mixed with 
the composition ; of the lampblack, use oidy sulfioient to color. 

HouTictTLTURAL Ink. — Copper, 1 part; dissolve in nitric acid, 
10 parts, and add water, 10 parts ; used to write on zinc or tin 
labels. 

Bottle Wax — Black. — Black nsin Oj lbs.; beeswax, i lb. ; 
finely powdered ivory black, Ij Ib.s. .Melt together. Rkd, as tho 
last, but substitute Venetian red, or red lead, for the ivory 
black. 

GoLD-coLORKD Sealino-wax. — Bleached shellac, 3 lbs. ; Venice 
turpentine, 1 lb.; Dutch U-.;f ground fine, 1 lb., or less. The 
leaf should be ground or powdered sutHciently fine, without 
being reduced to dust. Mix with a gentle heat, and pour into 
moulds. 

Lituoohaphic Ink. — Venice turi^ntinc 1 part, lampblack 2 parts, 
hard tallow soaj) 6 parts, mastic in tears, 8 parts, shellao 12 
parts, wax IG parts ; melt, stir, and pour it out on a slab. 

Fine Black wiutino Ink.— To 2 gals, of a strong decoction of 
logwood, well strained, add IJ lbs. blue galls in coarse powder 
6 ozs. sulphate of iron, 1 oz. acetate of copper, 6 ozs. of well ground 
sugar, and 8 oz. gum arable, y^t the above on the fire until it 
begins to boil ; strain, and then set it away until it has acquired the 
desired black. 

GiiEKN Ink. -Cream of tartar 1 part, verdigris 2 parts, 
8 parts. Boil till reduced to the proper color. 

Bmr Ink. — Take sulphate of indigo, dilute it with watCi 
it ])roduces! the require(l color. 

Violet Ink is made by dissolving some violet aniline in 
water to which some alcohol has been added ; it taked very little 
aniline to make a large quantity of the ink. 



OKOCKIW AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



71 



Gni,n Ink. — Mosaic gold, two parts, gum arabic, one part, 

ri;l)lK(l lip to 11 proper f>onrHtron. 

t5ii.\ti; iMi.— i'ritiimio Hi n rnortnr equal parts of ailver foil and 
B ilpliiuo »t poliidbii, until rt'duct'd It i line powder, tlion wash 
thu Htit oul, iiiul mix ilic residue with u mucilage of equal parts of 
gum unil)ic wiilor. 

Fui-LAMs Kkcipk for Indklibi-k Stbncil-platk Ink. — 1 lb, pre- 
cipitate ciirbonalo of iron ; 1 lb. sulpliutu of iron; li lbs. acetic 
iiciil. ^^tir over a fire until tliey combine ; then add 3 lbs. printer's 
viirnish iiud 2 lbs. line book ink, and stir until well mixed. Add 
1 11). ot Ktiiiop'd mineral. 

KxciiK^i Kit Ink.— liruiscd galls, 40 lb. ; gum, 10 lb. ; green 
.^iilpliiile of iron, 9 lb. ; soft water, 4J gal. Macerate for 3 weeks 
witU fri()iient airitrttion and strain. Tuia ink will endure for ages. 

A.siAiio Ink. — Bruised galls, U lb. ; gum, 5 lb. Put them in a 
ijniiill c.islv, aud add of boiling soft water, 15 gal.- Allow the 
wliule to macerute, with frequent agitation, for two weeks, then 
fiiriliiT add green coirjjeras, G lb., dissolved in 7 pt. water. Again 
lai.v well, aud agitate tlie whole daily for two or three weeks. 

E.\TiiA GOOD Black Ink. — iJruiied galls, 2 lb., logwood chips, 
green copperas and :jum, of each, 1 lb. ; water, 7 gal. Boil 2 hours 
itud atrain. Product, 5 gal. 

UiiowN Ink.— A strong decoction of catechu. The shade mav be 
varied i)y tlic cautious addition of a little weu ksolutiou of bichro- 
mate of potiirth. 

Indki.ihi.e Ink. — Nitrate of silver, i oz. ; water, J oz. Dissolve, 
add iis niiicii of the strongest liquor of ammonia aa will dissolve 
tiie prici|iitiite formed on its first addition ; then add of mucilage 
1^ dr , and a little sap green, syrup of buckthorn, or finely pow- 
dered indigo, to color. Turns black on being held near the fire, or 
toiiclR'd Willi a hot iron. 

IsDKMiii.K I.NK Koii Glass Oil Metal. — Horax, 1 oz ; shellac, 2 oz. ; 
water, l.s //(."/ oz. ; boil in a covered vessel, add of thick mucilage, 
loz. ; triturjite it with levigated indigo and lampblack q. 8., to 
give It a good color. After 2 hours' repose, decant from the dregs 
and bottle for use. It may be bronzed after being applied. 
KesLsts moisture, chlorine, and acids. 

CoMMu.N Ink —To 1 gal. boiling soft water, add J oz. extract log- 
wood ; boil two minutes ; remove from the fire, aud stir in 48 
grains bicliromale of potash, and 8 grains prussiate of potash; for 
II) gi'i. use G^ oz. logwoodc xtract; 1 oz. bichromate of potash, and 
80 [grains iirussiato of potash ; strain. 

Black Coi'vixo Ink, oit V\ riti.no fluid.— Take 2 gal. rain water 
and put into it gum arabic, \ lb. ; brown sugar, \ lb.; clean cop-' 
jitTJis, i 1)). ; powdered nutgails, J lb. ; mix, and shake occasionally] 
for ten (lays and strain ; if u ;oded sooner, let it stand in an iron 
ki'tlle uii'iil tlie lUreiigth is obtained. This ink will stand the 
action of tiie atuiosphore for centuries, if requin-d. 

Ki;i) I.\K. — In an ounce iiliial put 1 teaspoouful of aqua- ammo- 
nia ; gum arabic, size o[ two or three peas ; and G grains of No. 
40 carmiue ; fill up with soft water, and it is soon ready for uso. 

Lnji'iD liLACKiNO. — Ivory black, 2 lbs. ; molasses. 2 lbs. ; sweet 
oil, I lb. ; rub together till well mixed ; then add oil ritriol, % lb. ; 



72 



(lUOCKHS ANT> CONFECTIONKBS' RKCEirXS. 



add coRrsc siigar, ] lb. ; and dilute with beer bottoms ; this cn-^-^-t 
be cxcolled. 

TirKETiNiJ Ink kou Groceps, &c.— Dissolve 1 oz of piim arahia 
ill <) oz. water, and strain ; this is the uiuciliifie ; for Llack color^ 
use drop-blat'k, powdered, and p^ro'ind with the niKcilago to ex- 
treme fineness ; for l>lite, (dtra-marine is used in the same maniKr ; 
for (/rcei\ emerald green ; for vhitr, flake white ; for ri/, vcimil- 
ion, loke, or carmine ; for yrlloic, chrome yellow. When j^roiind 
too thick, they are thinned with a little water, /.pply to the canla 
with a small brush. The cords may be sized with a thin glue, and 
afterwards varnished, if it is desired to preserve them. 

liLviNC KOU Clothes.— Take 1 oz. of soft Prussian blue, powder 
it, and put in a bottle with I quart of clear rain water, an<l adil { 
oz. of pulverized oxalic acid. A tableapoonful is sullicieut for a 
liirge washing. 

PRfflHirM Methoo op keej'ino Hams, <kc. — To 4 gal. water, adds 
lbs. coarse salt: i oz. potash • 2 oz. saltpetre ; 2 lbs. brown sugar. 
l$oil together, skim when colu, put on the above quantity to 100 
11)3. meat ; hams to remain in eight weeks, beef, three wet1<3. Let 
the hams dry several days before smoking. Meat of all kinds, 
salmon and other fish, lobsters, kr., mny bo preserved for years by 
alight a[)plicat;on of pvroligneous acid applied w th a brush, svaU 
ingup in cans as usual. It imjiarts a splendid flavor to the meat, 
is very cheap, and an effectual preservative against loss. 

fo I'BESKUVK Meats, S.m.mon, LonsTEns, Ac. iieiimetically 
SEALED. — The meat to bo ]>reserved is first ]>arboiledor somewhat 
more, and freed from bones. It is then {mt into tin cases or 
canisters, which are quite filled up with a rich gravy. 4 *'" eovcr, 
with a small aierture, is then carefully fixed on by solder; and. 
wh^ e the vessel is perfectly full, it is placed in boiling water, aiKi 
uuclergoes the remainder of the cooking. The small hole in the covir 
is completely closed up by soldering while the whole is yet lio>. 
The Ct*nister, with its ingredients, is now allowed to cool, in conse- 
quence of which these contract, and tlie sides of the vessel aro 
slightly forced inward by atmospheric pressure, and become a 
little concave. The vessel being thus hcrmetitally sealed, a.nd all 
access of air prevented, it may be sent iito iviy climate wiil'oat 
fear of putrefaction ; and the most delicate food of one country 
may be used in another in all its original jiorfection months and 
yean after its preparation. Lobsters should ))e boiled longer thn". 
meats, uvd the scales n'moved ))revious to jiutting into t''-' aiiis- 
ters. Salmon put up by tliis process is most delicious. Jiv Iho 
French ()r<K'ess, the nwat is boiled til' it is three-quarters i^oue, 
wh'ju two-thirds of ii are taken out, e remaining one-third is 
boiled into a conoentnited soup, utkI the moat i)revioiisIy taken out 
is put into trie cniiisters, which aro then lilU .i un with the soup ; 
the tin cover w 'tli aperture i.-i soldered oii, and the canister wiih 
its c.intents siibmiited to a further boiling i»i hot water, when the 
aperture is closed, as above stated, and the canisters luiJ away iu 
ston . 

To iMiESEi'.vE FnriT.< wiriiorr i^i'oaii.— Piil some stone ■\\i(l(;- 
moutluMl bottles with the fViiit carefully picked, and set them in a 
cojjper or large kettlf , theu fill the kettle with cold water nwirly 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 73 



' i 



jp to the mouths of the bottles. Corks should be prepared to fit 
Hiiuhottli s, and a cloth should be put under the bottoms of the 
buttles to i-rcvent tlieir cracking with the beat. Licht the fire un- 
ivi the laltlc, iiud heat the water to 160" or 170". This heat should 
be coutinind for lalf an hour, when the fruit will be safflciently 
^cftlded ; after that, fill up the bottles with boiling water to witbia 
kninch of the cork, and cork them tightly. Lay the bottles on 
fht'ir sided ; change the position of the bottles once or twioe a 
veek during the first 'wo months, turning them round to prevent 
jny fciiiiontation that might take place. Fruits could also be 
kt'i»t liy the ])roces3 mentioned above for meats, remtrubering that 
liuy are to be scalded only, not boiU'd, as is the case with meats. 
I Anothkk Metuod. — After paring and coring, put amongst th'-m 
futfick lit supar to make thorn palatable for present eating, e'ooat 
^ or 4 11)3. only to each bushel ; let them stand awhile to uissolve 
|he supar, not using any water : then heat to a boil> and continue 
ibe boil'ng with care for 20 to 30 minutes, or sufficiently long to 
beat them through, which expels the air. Hnve ready a kettle of 
bot water, into which dip the can or bottle Icngeurcigh to beat it; 
klicii fill in tho fruit while hot, corking it innn.'^diatei^, dipping the 
Diid of th^j cork into the bottle-wax preparation dencribed else- 

liore. 

WoiiOESTEUsiriRS Sadcb. — Port wine and mushroom ketchup, of 
L'ftcli 1 qt. ; old ale and strong vinegar, of each, J pt. ; walnut 
jiicklc, 1 pt. ; soy, J pt. ; pounded anchovies, A lb, ; froah lemon 
jicel, miiiccMl shallots, and scraped horse-radish, of each, 2 oz. ; 
jllj^iiicetiiul black pepiier (bruised), of each, 1 oz. ; curry powder, 

oz. Diunst It days; strain and bottle. 

GiiERKi.N.s.— Takesmnll cucumbers (notyoting"), steep for a week 
111 venj Mionij brine ; it is then poured off, heated to the boiling 
jtoint, and iigitin poured on the fruit. The next day, the gherkins 
are draiiuMl v\\ a sieve, wijied dry, put into bottles or jars, with 
Boine .'^iiice, ^ringer, pepper, or cayenne, and at once coverca with 
Btioiif,' piaklinjr vinegar. 

.Mi.xKD ru'Ki.Ks from rauliflowers, white cabbage^ French beans, 
)iiions, ciuiiiiiliers, Ac , are treated as ohfrkiim, with raw ginger, 
piiptjicuiii, nni.-Jtani-seed, and long pej)! er, ndd(>d to each nottle. 

little coarsely-bruised turmeric improves both the color and 
Iftvor 

isniAN Pinci-E. — PiccaUfli. — Take one hard white cabbage 
(sliceii), 2 cauliflowers, ])ulled to pieces, 20 French beans, 1 stick 
if hor.^e-radii-h, sliced fine, 2 doz. small white onions, and I doz. 
rlierkins. Cover these with boiling brine ; next day, drain the 
rliolo on a sieve, put it into ajar, add of curry powder, or tur- 
meric, 2 07.. ; garlic, ginger, and mustard-seed, or each 1 oz. ; cap- 
sioiini, ^ oz. Fill up the vessel with hot pickling vinegar ; bung 
it np close, and let it stand for a month, with occasional agitation 
Bvorv weel;. 

To I'ltEsBuvK Fiuht .TmcE wrrnnnT IIkat. — Ingredients : 10 Ibfl. 
)r ^Iv^ll-^rlttil( rod, picked, ri)ii' red eurnints, or other fruit, 2 qta. 
cold wnter, f) oz. tartaric acid, <5 lbs. of coar.ae-siftod sugar. Put 
•he fruit into a large «'artlien pan, pour the water with the tartaric 
iciil liitiHolved in ir ovt^r ihe fruit, cover the vh,:\ with Home kind of 



' t 



fM 






I Hi 



'll »l 



1 I 

I 



If' 






I 



9 






74 



QROCEUS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS, 



lid, nnd allow the whok' to etccp for 24 hour? in a cold p\\\cf\ and 
it would bo all tl e holier if tlie piin contiiiui;!^^ the fruit could be 
imnierifd iu rough ico. Next, pour tiic stLopcd fruit into a siig. ll 
peudcd stout lliiunel hag, and whou all the juice has run thiough, il 
tie up tho ojien e;id of the bag, and place it on a large enrtlien 
dish, with another dish upon it j place a half-hundred weight npot 
thin, to press out all the remaining juico, and then mix it with the !j 
other juice. You now put the sifted sugar into the juice, and stir | 
both together occasionally, until the sugar is dissolved, and then 
bottle up the syrup, cork, and tie down the botiles with Avire, nnd 
keep them in theiie woU or in a c('l I cellar, in aroditiiug posiion. i 

To HE8TOHK i.NjiJiiiii) Mkat. — When tho brine sours and taints 1 
the moat, pour it off; boil it. t^kim il well, then pour il back again | 
on the ui'-at boilinii hot ; this will restore it, even wlion niiich 
injured. If tainted meat is injiired, dip it in the solution of chlo- 
rid'- of lime proscnbtil for lani^id butter ; it will roslore it. Fly. 
blown moat can bo completely restored by inimer.=<iiig it for a fi-vr 
hours in a vessel containing a small (piantity of beer; but it will 
taint and impart a jiutrid hniell to the liquor. Fresh meat, haiiis, ' 
iiih, &c., can be jirescrved for an indolinito length of <'ine witlioiil' 
Bait, by a light afiplieation of pyroligneou^ acid apidiod wlili a 
brush ; it imparts a tine smoky flavor to th; nuat, and is an eit'ect- ! 
ual preservative. Hut pure leetie acid ma}' be used instead. , 

Mbihod of CLin.NO bad Tin i-iuiTKii. — A quantity of tub-butter j 
was brought to market in the West Indies, wiiJeh, o'n openinir, ivosl 
found lo iio very bud, aiid almo-it stinking. A native of I'e uisjl- 
vania undertook to cure it, which he did in the following niiia- 
ner :— 

He started the tubs of butter in a Inrgo quantity of ijot water,! 
which soon molted tho butter ; he then sKiiumed il olf as eloiui <\i 
possible, and workeii it over again in a churn, and, with the addi- 
tion of sail and line Hugar, the butter was sweet. 

To itKsronK IIan(u» Hittku.— Use 1 pt. water to each lb. of but- 
ter, pri'Viously adilir.;r "JO gr-i. chloride of lime to each pt. of water; 
wa; h well the butti-i' i'l liiis mi.xtuiv, uflervvara re-wash iu cold 
water and call; or unit the butter in a waltu* batii willi aiuiniil 
charcoal, coarsely powdered and previously well sifted to free 
it fro!n dust; Kkim, remove, and strain through flannel; then suit. 

Frkhh yh)KV — TO KKKi' A VVkkic ou Two IN Hi'.MMKi;.— Funiieri 
or others living at a dislap.ee from bute'iers can ket^p fresii in"at 
V(ry nicely for a week or two, by putting it into soiir milk, or but- 
ter milk, placing it in a co jl cellar. The bone or fat need not bo 
removed. HinS'' well when used. 

Milkman's I'iiookh;*. — To give a body to di..iied milk use the 
following nutritive and hoaltliv compound at the rate of M oz. to 
every 5 gals., stirring it up in the milk, till all is dissolved : arrow- 
root, G oz. ; magnesia, G oz. ; starch, 1 lb. , flour, ^ lb ; white suifar, 
iu powd(r, 1 lb.; mix all iutimaUly together, and keep in a iiry 
place for use. 

CtJeTAKD rownnnH, — Sago moil and flour, 1 lb. each, color with 



turmeric 
dr. ; esa 



to u cre:iiii ei lor. P'lav.ir wit! 



1 1-^ 



'utinl oil of alnioniis, 1] 



of louK-n, 2 drs. Use with aweeteiied uw'k to form ci-! 






temponiQcous custard?- 



aaOCEIlS AND CONFECTIONiiRS IlECEII'TS. 



74a 






un, and 
■oald be 
i> a tiii3< i 



Rap n PnncE.'a of mahrtno (Joods at any nFsiuEn pru cent. Pro- 
fit.— iii^tail iiitTchaiito, ill buying Ri)i,(.la by wliolosalo, buy a 
pruat uumy articles by iho (iozcn, suoli as Tjoots and shoes, hats 
;i 111 Ciips, -uul ni)tions of various kind-!, now, the merchant, 
in l)uyin>?, for instance, a dozen bats, knows exactly what ouo of 
these" hats will retiiil fur in the market where lie deals; and, 
unless lie is a good accountant it will often take him some time to 
(I'termiue whether he can afford to.jnirchase the dozen bats and 
make a I'ving profit in selling them by the single bat; andinbuy- 
iii,,' Ills g'lods by auction, as the merchant often does, he has not 
time to make the calculation before the goods are bid off. He 
therefore loses the chance of making po(jd bargains by being 
iifniid to bid at random, or if be bids, and the pot)ds are cried off, 
lie may have made a po r bargain, by bidding thus at a venture. 
It then bi-comes a useful and prac'ical i)rt)blenj to detirmine 
inslaiitli/ w hilt per cent, he would gain if he retailed the hat at a 
certain jiriee, to tell what an articK' should rota'l for to mak:: a 
priitlt of liO j)er cent. 

RiLi;. — Diiidti what the articles coft per dozen by 10, which is done 
by /■( inoi'iutj ihe dvciuidi puiiU ntiejilace to tie lejt. 

tor instance, if hats cost $17.50 per dozen, remove the decimril 
point one place to the le^'t, making S^I.T.'j, what Miey should be 
sold for apievu to gain 20 jiev ce;it on the cost. If they cost 
:*;!!. 00 per dozen, they should be L^old at §.'5.10 apiece, eic \Vc 
talvc 20 percent, as the basis fur the fullowiiig reasons, viz.: be- 
cause we can determine instantly, by simply removing the deci- 
mal point, without ciianging a figure, and, if the goods would not 
liiiug at least 20 per cent, jirofil in tlie home maiket, the merchant 
could not ati'ord to ])urcl>ase, and woulii look for cheaper goods. 

'I'lie reason fiu- the above rule is obvious, for if we divide the 
cp.vt (,f a dozen by 12, wo have the cost of a single article ; then if 
we wish to n.ake 2U per cent, on the cost icust being 1-1 or 5-5), 
we add the jier c^-Mit., wlueh is 1-5, to tlie 5 5. making tj-5 or 12-10; 
then as we niuitiidy the cost, divided by 12, ny the 12-10 to find at 
what priee one inusi be sold to gain 2i) jier cent., it is evident that 
the 12s will cancel and leave the co.st of a dozen to be divided by 
10, to do this remove the decimal point one placi' lo the left. 



E.KAMi'i.i; 1. — ll'l buy 2 dozen caps ot ^7.50 per dozen, whatshall 
I retail them al, 'o make 20 per cent.? Ans. 75 cents. 



!•; 



.XA.Ml'LK 



-Whetr a merchant retails a vest at $4.50 and makes 



20 per cent., what did lie pay per do2.? Ans, :;?45, 

Iv\AMi'i.|.; ;h. — At what ])rice should I retail a \nvr of boots that 
(osi :i?s;V(i() por doz. to make 20 per con-t. ? An;i. ;!i;s.50. 

Now; a-; removing the decimal point one j.lace to the left, on 
the cii^tt of a dozen articles, giverf the selling price of a single one 
v.itli 20 jier ceiil, added to the cost, and, as tlie cost of any articlo 
is liiO per cent., it is obvious that tne seliim; price would be 20 per 
cent, iimre, or 120 per cent.; hence, to i'mil 50 per cent, profit 
wliieli would make the selling price 150 pei- cent., we would first 
timl IjO per c 'nt. tlic.i add 3'i per cent, by mcreas'iig it one-fourth 
it,S'il'; to iiKiko 40 per cent aiM 2o per c'lit. by increasing it oiie- 
?'.\\\\ il.-elf; tor 35 per cut , ner. a.^o il oue-cigiidi ilsoifj etc. 
lie .CO t nnirk an article al iinv uor cent, proht we fma the 
foil 



owing 



I 






f 




\ i 
i ■ 






J, ■! 



I 111 



lih 



(JKOCEllb AND C0NFKCTIONEU8' RECEIPTS. 



(lENT.nAii Rule. — Firf^t fin 1 20 per •cr.t. profit In/ rcmovhir; the 
dcciiiiid piiint. one p/dC:' to tli''. Ljt on the. price t.'if arllcL^s coM per 
(ioz. thf'ii, (/,•( 20 per a nt profit is ) 20 piT cunt, add to or subtraci 
from. t/iiH (tiif'uut th'/rncUcii.i^ j-art tJi'j,/ the ri^uired jicr cent adled 
to 100 iH 7it(>n^ or /ts.f thiiii 120 

Mtclmnts, i i m;irki:i{j jroods, j^oiu'n.lly tiike n. per cent, thnt is 
nil iilicjiiot ]> :rt oflOO, as .:"), ;33 l-;i, 5o, ka. The ri'iison liioy do tliig 
i.s !)• ciiiisc it iiiaki'd it inucli oiiiitT to add i' icli ft \wr ci'iit. to tlio 
vo<\ ; for instance, a int'icluint coidd iiuirk uiia<;-it u dozi-n urticlos . 
at 50 I'l r cenl. i)ro!it in thi' ti.iio it would ijiko liim to innrk om- at 
4') i>«'r cent 'J iio folknvinir 'ubli' id arfiingid for t!)(; co ;vc;;i,'.iico 
<<f businoss ineu in luurki \g t!io priivs of all aniclcs boii;.;ht 
by 1 1 10 do/,eii. 
'To make 20 jier cent, reiuovo the point one pkico to the left. 



<( 



80 
60 
f)0 
41 

'10 



« 



(i 



and add >, itycif. 

l-l 
1-5 

i-i; 



days, am 



« 



.T) 



30 



2C. 



i< 



1-H 
1-9 

1-10 
1-12 

i-lf) 



1-''J " 



•n 



111 
iHij 



" subtract 1-itJ '< 



\-'.n\ 



ftiak 



If I bay a d,./,. sliirU for S2H.0O, what shall I retail tlu-in for to 



(! ;)0 pi-r ecu 



t.? A 



m. :f^:! r,i). 



KxiM.ANAi ION.- Ketiiovc tiie ; (;int one plai'c, to llio li'fi, I'.ad atid 
i it.-Hlf. 

Ami^^cot I'AiiTf. OK lOo AXD 1000.— Morcliantfl in Pt^llinpf goodg 
peii'Tally niaki- tli(« price of an article some alif^tiot part of i;)0, aa 
iu scllin.LC s'.!};ar at 12-5 r-nls jic:- lb , or 8 lbs. ^vt $1 Oo, orinsellintr 
calii'o for 1>! 2-3 c.'iits jicr yard, or (> yds. fjr ^I.OO etc. Tl 



owiri;; liildo will bi; f)iiiiil valuable for all siiohcal 



II 

p-art 



12.', is 1-H part of 100 
2.'t" ia 1-4 part of I>0. 
37.} i^! 3-8 part of 100. 
r>0 is •!-« or A of HO. 
<)2.] id r.-H part of 100. 
7') i.s C-8or3 4 of 100. 
«7.| ia 7-8 tartof 100. 
ol id 1-1(5 part of IOC. 
IH;} iJ 3-10 part (if 100. 
31.( iijf.-l'Jptirtof 100. 
To muhiplv by an aliquot 



culationd. 



110 



Hi is !-!2 jtart of !00, 

10 2-Jis 2-i2or ]-() of 100. 

33 1.3 id 4-12 .r 1 ;! of 10;). 

m 2-3 id ^-12 or 2-3 of loo. 

83 1-3 is 10-12 or f).(j of 100. 
125 ia 1-8 ])art(.'f KiOO. 
250;d2Hor 4 of 1000. 
3T.5 )8 3-R part of jOOO. 
(.Jf) 1.^ 5-8 pnrt of h.OO. 
' ■■" id 7-iJpiut of ICOO. 



i.K — Aiid two cv]>;if-rfi to the tnultipiicand ',hen Like !5ti<'V 

..f :t . 1 t'., . ,.■• UI: i;«.; .'lift 



;r :..i 



L-,:.l 



;i.-llC.-i-i ] ;w 



(I i 







iV !'.. If till', nmltiplicnnd is a mi.vd number nnluco the iVactioii 
to a di'ciimil I f two plure.-j b<'f(tr<> dividing 



giva-ii. 

To K 

prr Vrl 



11 



OROOERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS 75 

Cdrry Powder. — Turmeric nnd coriander Feeds, of each, 4 oz. ; 
black pepper, '2|J oz. ; (<i.i>;ei, 14 drs. ; ciiiiuiinuii. mace, luul cloved, 
uiicb, ^ oz. ; cmrJuiuoiii .sL-eiis, 1 oz. ; cummin seeds, 2 drs. ; cayenuo 
peppur, 1 oz. ; powder and mi.\. 

Napoleon's Cami' S.vucK.—Old strong beer, 2 qta., white wine, 1 
qt., aiicliuvies 4 ounces : mi.v ; boil for ten minutes ; remove it from 
tlie lire, and add of peeled sballota, 3 ounces j macerate for 14 
ilavri, and boUle. 

i'lCKiiKD Omons. — Choose small round onions, remove the skiiiS. 
sti;e|) thcni in strong brine for a week \n a slune vessel, pour it ( tf, 
and luat till it bods; then pour on the onions, boiling hot; after 
24 iKMiiri, drain on a sieve, then put them in bottles, lill u]) over 
tlieiii with strong spiced vinegar, boiliiiu: hot, cork down imme- 
iliiiul} , and wax over the cork. In u similar manner are nickled 
niii.shruonis, canliliower.-i, samphires, pea.^ beans, green gooseoerries, 
w.tliiuls, red cabbages (wiiiiout sail, wiih cold vinegar). Observe 
tliai tile soft a*id more delicate articles do not recjiiire so long 
so.iUitig in briau as the harder and coarser kinds, and may be often 
kept by simply pouring very strong pickling vinegar on them with- 
oul the a[ipiicalion of heat. Far pfach>n, select ripe but not soft 
ones; ruij with a dry cloth; put four cloves, free from their heads, 
in each large ()ea<ii, and two in .-^nnill ones ; to one gallon vinegar, 
jiiitC lb. good brown sug<ir; put tlie [leaclu'S in ajar, and put the 
vinegar (diluted with water, if too stn>iig) and sugar in a ]>reser^- 
iiiiX ktltle over the lire ; boil ami .^kiu' il. ; i>our it boiling iiot over 
tlic peaelies, covering them dosily ; reptMt the operation tlu' e 
tinp'.s; til! :; .••■al tlierii tightly in cans or bottles. 

Fhi;ncii Fatknt Mistaiii).— Flour of nmstanl, 8 lbs.; wheaten 
flour, H lbs.; bay sail, 2 lbs.; cayenne pepper, 4 oz. ; vinegar ti> 
mix. 

0().MMO\ MfSTAUD. — Flour of musta-d, 28 lbs. ; wheat flour, 28 
lli,^.; (-avenue l-ejii^-r, 1 .i oz., or as retpiired; common salt, ID lbs.; 
rape oil, \i lbs. ; turmeric to color; mix well, and pass through a 
line sieve. 

.Stakcii Polish. — White wa.x, 1 oz. ; spcmniceti, 2 oz.; melt them 
toizetli'r With a gentle beat. When you have prepared a sullicient 
aiaoiinl of starch, in the usual way, for a dozen jiieces, i>ut into it 
a piece of the polish the si/.e of a large pea; mort; or less, accod- 
iiig to lar^o ca- small wa.slinig3. Or thick gum solution (made by 
pouring boiling w.itor uiion gum arabic), one tablespoon to a pint 
or:-iarc.li, gives clothes -i beautiful gloss. 

Fiiii; KiNOLKitrt — To nnike very nice fire kindlers. take rosin, any 
(piautit,, and melt it, puttnig in U)V each pound being used, from 
'- 1,0 W o/,. i4 lallow, and when all is hot, stir in i)ine sawdust to 
make \i-\y thick; and, while yet In. I, spread it out about 1 inch 
thick, upon b )ards which have fiiu.' sawdust sprinkled u[ion them, 
tc prevent it from slicking. When cold, break u|) into Imnps 
about 1 inch square. Hut if for sale, take a thin board and press 
upon it, while, yet warm, to lay it olf into I inch s(|Uares: Ibis 



break regidarlv, if ycto press tiie creaSf! ^ulIicK>ntiy <leep, 
gr'MMii!!: 'he marki'd Inar^i to prevent it iVom 'Mickinii. 

To hi'Ei' (yii>KiJ HWKKr, AM) FWKK.rKN Koii! ('iitKU.--To keep cider 
p!'i Vit, lake a keg and Itore holes in ibe botliun of it: spread a 





li i 



7G GROCERS AN'J CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 

piecp of woollen cloth at *.ho bottom ; tlien fill with clcnn snnd 
closely piickod ; draw your cider from a barrel just as fast ad it will 
run {)\it)»gh the sand ; after this, put it in clean barrels which have 
had a piece cf 'otton or linen doth 2 by 7 inches dipped in melted 
sulphur and burned inside of theni, thereby absorbing the sulphur 
fumes (this jjrocrss will also sweeli n sour cider) ; th« n keep it in u 
cellar or room where there is no lire, and add i lb. white mustard 
/Seed to each barrel. If c der is long niiule, or souring when you get 
it, about 1 qt. of hickory ashes (or a little more of other hard wood 
ashes) stirred into each barrel will sweeten and cliirify it nearly 
equal to rectifying it u. above ; but if it is not rectilied, it must bo 
racked off to get clear of the pomace, as with this in it, it will sour. 
Oil or whisky barrels are best to put cider in, or J pint sweet oil 
to a barrel, or a galhni of whisky to a b.irrel, or both, may bo 
added, witli decidedly good eflrcfs'; isinglass, 4 oz. to each barrel, 
helps to clarify and settle cider that is net 'roiug to be rectified. 

Omniiu Wink. — Water, 10 guls, hin.p si. gar, 20 lbs., bruised 
ginger, 8 oz.; ': or 4 eggs. Roil well and skim ; then jxjur hot on 
six or seven lemon:; cut in slices, macerate fi r 2 hours ; then rack 
and ferment; next add spirit, 2 (j's., aiul afterwards finings, 1 pint; 
rummage well. T^ make the coh)r, Imil i^ o/. salcratus and J oz. 
alum in 1 ])int of water till you get a briglit red color. 

IcK Cream. — Ib.ve rich, sweet cretnu, and a half-pound of loaf 
Bugar to eacli quart of creaiii or milk. If you cannot get cieam. 
the best imitation i. to boil a soft custard, ggs to each qu'iit or 
milk (eggs well beat). Or another is made >'8 follows boil 1 
■quart of milk, and stir into it, while healing, 1 tablesnoonful of 
arrowroot wet with cold milk ; when cool, stir into it tlie yolk of 
1 egg to give it a rich color. Five minutes' boiling is enough lor 
cither ]>lan. Put the sugar in afier tluy cool ; kee]» the sa»ie pro- 
portions for any anioinit desired. Or tlius: to <> (piarts of milk 
add ^ lb. Oswego starch, lir.-t dissolved ; put th(^ staich ip 1 quart 
of the milk ; then mix altogether, and sinuner a little (not boil); 
sweeten and liavor to your taste ; excellent. The juice of straw- 
berries or msplierries gives a beautiful color and flavor to ice 
creams, or about ^ ounce essence or extract to 1 gallon, or to suit 
the taste. Have your ice well broken, 1 qt. salt to a bucket of ice. 
About one 'lalf hour's constant stirring, with occasional scraping 
down and Ik ;iliug together, will freeze it. 

SuusTi'i (iTK von (;HEAM. — Take 2 or 'A whole cggF, b'^at them well 
up in a basin; tl.en i)our boiling hot te:i over them ; pour gra- 
dr.ally to prevent curdling. It is diflicult for the ti.ste to distin- 
guish it from rich cream. 

CincAOo IcK (/UKAM.— Irish moss goakefl in warm water one hour, 
and rinsed well to cleanse it of sand and a certain foreign taste; 
then steep it in milk, keeping it just at the point of boiling or 
eirumering for one hour, or until a rich yellow color id given to the 
milk ; without cream or eggn, from I "to 1} oz. to a gal. only is 
necessary, and thisM'ill do to steep twice. Sweeten and flavor like 
other creams. 

GiNOKU Hkeu.— Take HJ gal.v water, J lb. ginger root bruised. 
tMtaric acid, ^ ojt., white Hugflr, 2i lb-?., whit<',^ of 3 egg-« well 
hoaten, 10 umall teaspoonfuls of lemon ess. ; ycnst, 1 gill ; boil tho 



OROCEIIS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



77 



oz. 



root for H'^ minuteg in 1 (»al. of tlio water ; Rlrnin off nntl put tho 
csH in wliile iiut; mix. iiiuke over night; in the niot-aing, skim and 
biiitle, k( epiuj? out llie s-rdinienfa. 

Philadelphia J5ki;h. — Tn\m 30 gals, water, brown sugar, 20 lbs. 
giii^;ir root bruised, i lb., cronm of tartar, U Ib.s., carbonate of soda, 
3 07,., oil of lenion, cut in a little alcohol, 1 teaapoonful, the white oi 

10 oggs well bcaien, hops, 2 cz., yeast, 1 qt. The ginger root and 
hops should be boiled for twenty or thirty minutes in enough of the 
wrtter to make all luilk-warm ; then strained into the rest and the 
yeast added and allowed to work itself clear : then bottle. 

Cjdkh without Ai'i'LEs. — Water, 1 gallon ; common pugar, 1 lb.; 
tartaric acid, i oz. ; yeasi, one tablespoonfnl ; shake well, make in 
the evening, and it will be fit to use next day. 

Foil IJoTTLiNU.— Put in a barnd, G gals, hot water; 30 lbs. com- 
mon sugar: J lb. tartaric arid ; 25 gallon.s cold water ; 3 pints of 
hop or brewers' yea.^t, worked into paste with I j>int water and 1 lb. 
flour. Let it work in tlie barrel fortj -eight hours, the yeast run- 
ning out of the bunghole nil the time, putting iii a little sweetened 
water oeeasionally to keep it full ; then bottle, putting in two or 
three broken raisins to each bottle; and it will nearly equal 
chnnif agne. 

('iiKAi' ('ii)KH.— Put in n cask .'i gals, hot water; 15 lbs. brown 
pupar : 1 gal niolans s; i gel. lion or biewerr' yeai^t ; good vine- 
gar, G i]ts. ; stir well, add 25 gals, cold water, ferment as tho 
liist. 

Anothei? CmKu. — Cold water, 20 gal>>., brown sugar, 15 lbs., 
tariarie acii!, ^ lb. : rnuiHia>te well together, and add, if you have 
tliiui, .'5 or 4 lbs. of dried sour apples, or boil them and pour in the 
expre.^sed juice. Thi.s cider will keep longer than the others. 

t-' Mil ce AM) GiNUKii Hkkh. — Cold water, 10 gals. ; lolling water, 

11 gnls. ; nii.T in a barrel ; add niolasses, 30 lbs., or brown sugar, 
24 lbs. ; oil of spruce or any oil of which you wish the flavor, 1 
oz. ; add 1 pint yeast, ferment, bottle in two' or three days. If yoti 
w sh white spruce bet-r, use luniji sugar; for ginger flavor, use 17 
oz. ginger root bruised, and a few hops ; boil for thirty minutes 
in three gals. i>f the water, strain ami mix well ; let it stand two 
hours and bottle, using yeast, of course, as before. 

Hop l')KKi!, vKnv KINK.-- Mix 14 Ibs molasscs aud 11 gals, water 
Will togetJK r, and boil them for 2 hours with <> oz. hops. Wlu^n 
quite eool, adij a cui)fnl of yeast, and stir it well by a gallon or two 
at a time. Let it ferment for 16 hours, in a tub covered with a 
sack, then put it into a l»-gnllon cask, and keep it filled up ; bung 
it down in 2 days, and in 7 days it will be lit to drink, and will be 
stronger than J/ondon porter. ' 

Edinhuhgh Alk.— Emy)loy tho best pale malt — Ist, mash 2 bar- 
rels pr. quarter, at 1H3°, mash three-quurters of an hour, let it stand 
1 hour, ^nd allow half an hour to run ofl' the wort; 2d, masn 1 
barrel uer quarter, at 180", mash three-fourths of an hour, let it 
stand three-fourths, and tan as befon^ ; 3d, mash 1 barrel per quar- 
ter, at 17«i", mash lull an hour, let it stand half an hour, and tap 
as be!V,n'. Tla- first and .second wort may be mixed together, boiling 
Ih'^ui about nu hour or an hour and a quarter, with a ouantity rf 
hops proportioned to tho time the ale is required to be Kept. Tho 



i-^k' 



Ji • 1 



{% 



i 



I 



78 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS RECEIPTS. 



firnt two riiiiy bo inixerl at the heat of r,;)=, in (ho pcylctiin, nnd tho 
siicoiul Hhoiild be tliiui-iiteti Hcpiinituly lorsiuiill IklT. Tiie host 
hojis should ho used in the proportioii of ubout 4 Ihi. lor every 
quarter ofuinllemphiyed. 

li )TTLiNO l'oi{TEii.--Hrown Stout. Pale malt, 2 quarters ; amber 
and brown malt, of each 1^ do.; mash al 3 tinier, with 12, 7, a id 
6 barrels of water; boil with hopij, 50 lbs., set with yeast, 2'J lbs. 
Product, 17 barrels, or Ij times the malt. 

Lemon Bker. — To make 20 gals., boii « oz. of ginger root bruised, 
i lb. cream of tartar, for 20 or 30 minutes, in 2 or 3 gals, water ; 
this will be straiued in 13 lbs. coffee sugar, oii which you have 

f)ut i oz. oil of lemon, aud si.x good lemons squeezed up together, 
laving warm water enough lo make the whole 20 gals, just so 
hot that you can hold your hand in it without burning, or about 
70 degrees of heat ; put in U pints of hop or brewers' yeast, worked 
into paste with 5 or G oz. Hour. Let it work or ar night, then strain 
aud bottle for use. 

TAiUiE liKEii.— Malt, « busuels, hops, 7 lbs., molasses, 25 lbs. ; brew 
for 10 barrels; smaller quantity in jiroporlion. 

Hop Bekii. — Hop.-*, C> ouuces, molajses, o quarts ;br)il the hops till 
the strength is out, strain them into a 3o-galliiu l):irrel ; add the 
molasses and 1 teacupful of yeaat, and till up with water ; shako it 
well, and leave the bung out till feriiionted, whicli will be in about 
24 hours. Ihing up, and it will be lit for use in about three days. 

M0LAS8E.S liKEU. — Hops, 1 0/..; water, 1 gal. ; boil lor lOmiiiuies, 
Htrain, add molasses, 1 lb., aud when luke-warm, yeast, 1 spoonful. 
Ferment. 

Root IJeeii. — B'or 10 fxallons beer, take 3 lbs. common burdock 
root, or 1 oz. essence of sassafras ; ^ lb. good hops ; 1 pint c'n'n, 
roasted brown. Buil the whole in gallons pure water until tlie 
strength of the materials is obtained ; strain while hot into a keg, 
a<ldiugenougli cold waier to make 10 gallons. When nearly cold 
add clean molasses uv syrup until jialaiable, — not sickishly sweet. 
Add also as uiueh freish yeast as will raise a hutch of eight loaves 
of bread. Place the keg in a cellar or other co >1 place, and in 
forty-eight hours you will have a keg of tirat-rale sparkling root 
beer. 

Cheai' Beer. - Waier, 15 gals. ; boil half tho water with { lb. 
liojis ; then add to the other h.ilf in the tun, and mix Wel'. with I 
gal. molasses and a little yeast. 

To uESToui.: Souk BKKit.— (iood hops, i lb., powdered chalk. 2 lbs. 
lilt ill th.' hoU- of the cask, aud bungehist^ lor afew days ; forfrostcd 
l)ccr, juld some finings, a few liaidfuhH of Hour, and some seal led 
hops; for ropy beer, use a handful or twoof Hour, the same of hops, 
with a little powdered alum to each barrel, liummago well. 

To LMi'iiovK jhkFi.avou OK Beeu.— Bruised ginger, 1 oz. ; bruisod 
cloves, I (y/,. ; a few scalded hops and a doz. broken coarse biscuits 
to every two barrels, iliimmag'^ well. 

Lkmonade. White suear. 1 lb., tarUuic acid, i ounce, essence of 
hyrnoii, 3o drops, wntcr :: ^\i^. .Mi.v. 

(■KKAM :Soi.,\.— Loaf Biig.ir. ten 11m., water, 3 gal. ; warmgradu- 
nlly.o a*. not to burn ; gnod rieh cream, 2 quarts, I'xtraet vanilla, 
IJ ou/»ee->, e.Miact uutm 'g, -i oiuice, tartaric acid, 4 ouncoi. Just 



OIUK^ERS AND CONFECTIONERS RBCFIPTS. 



79 



( 



hruig to a l)oilinsf heat ; for if you cook it any length of time, it 
•.viil crvstiillizc ; use 4 or 5 spoonfuls of tlii.-? syrup indteud 
(if tlini", fn in othir pyrups ; put } toiisi'iionf I of soda to a 
jrhi^-, if us'mI without a fuuutaia. For charged fuuuiaini no acid 
i.s u-ril. 

I'liEKZiNiJ PiiKPAitATioN. - Common Bal-ammoniap, well piilver- 
iznl, 1 [lart ; Siiltpetrc, 2 parts ; tnix well together. Then take coin- 
in'iti siMJji well pulverizi-d. T > us'.', take equal (luaiitilies of these 
lir('ii;iriilioiu-i (which must be kept separate and well covered pre- 
vioiL-i to u;4inf,') aiul i)ut them in the freezing pot; add of water a 
]. roper quantity, and put in the article to be frozen in a i>roper 
Tcssid; cover up, and your wants will soon bo supplied. For freez- 
ing cream or wines this cannot be beat. 

j'ouTAUi.K Lemonadk. — Tartaric acid, 1 ounce, white sugar, 2 lbs., 
essence of lemon, quarter ounce ; powder and keep dry for use. 
One dessert spoonful will make a glass of lemonade. 

Imi'Kiuai, CitKAM Nectak.— Part Ist, take I gallon water, loaf 
siuriir, (J U»-)., tnrta' ic acid, (3 ounces, gum arabic, 1 ounce. Part 2d, 
Jlour, 4 Ifiispooiifuis, the whites of 5 egg.s ; beat finely together; 
thtM aiid k ]»int water; when the first part is blood warm, put in 
tin; pi'cund ; boil 3 minute.^, and it is done. Directions : 3 tablc- 
.wiiootifiih of pynip to two-thirds of a glass of water; add one- 
tliini te:ia;inon"fMl of carbonate of soda, made fine ; stir well, and 
drink at your leisure. 

I'kim'Ki:mi.\t (/okdiai,.— Good whisky, 10 galls., water, 10 galls., 
white sugir, 10 lbs., oil peppermint. 1 ounce, in 1 pint alcohol, 1 lb. 
Hour well worked in the fluid, A In. burned sugir to color. Mix, 
lunl let it Ptiiii I one week before'using. Other oil in place of pep- 
piitiiint, and vou have any flavor desired. 

Sii,vKi!-Toi' I):mnk. — Water, 3 q ts., white sugiir, 4 lbs., ess. of lemon, 
4 tea-poonfuls, white of 5 eggs, beat with I tablespoouful of Hour : 
liuii to form a syrup ; then divide into equal pnris. and to one add 
;! ounces tartaric; acid, to the other 4 otmces of carbonate of soda; 
jHit in a teaspoonful of each of the syrups, more or less (according 
to the aim of the glass), to two-thirds of a glass of water ; drink 
quick. 

tSANOAiiEK. — Wine, ale, or porter, or two-thirds water, hot or cold 
— according to the season of the year, loaf sugar to taste, with nut- 
meg. 

SrornnTON Bitteus. — Gentian, 4 ounces, orange peel, 4 ounces, 
ColuMibo, 4 ounces, oamiiinile)ii>w"rs, 4 ounce.-s, cpiassia. 4 ounces, 
burned sugar, 1 II)., whisky, 2^ galls. M.-X and let U .stand 1 week, 
liutlle the c'ear liquor. 

Soda Sviu'ps. — IiO»if or crushed sugar, ft lbs., pure water, 1 gallon, 
gum arahie, 2 o/, ; mix in u brass or CtJ|)per kettle, lioil until the 
gum is dissolved, tlieii skiiu a id strain through while tl;iunel, aft- r 
wliicli aild tartaric acid, ."».] oz. ; dissolve in iioL water ; to llavor, usg 
e.xtrael of lemon, orange, vanill t, rose, sarsaparilia, strawberry, 
&e., itc, ^ oz. or to your taste. If you ust» juice of lemon, add 2^^ 
lb(*. of susriir to a pint, you do not iie<'d any tartaric acid with it"; 
now use two tables[ioonfuls of syrtip to ^, of a tumbler of water, 
iinl \ te.isiioonl'ul of super-carbonate of soda, nuide fine; drink 
quick. For soda fountains, 1 oz. of super-carbonate of soda is used 



]|- 



T'^rii 



I H 






] 



■•i 



f: 



* 



80 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



to 1 gallon of water. For charged fountains no acids are needed 
in the sjTupa. 

C(jMMoN ISmam. Pker. — A iiar<lfiil of hops to a ynW of water a 
Iiitit of hrun ami half a pint uf molutjoes, a cup of ycust uud a 
Bpooufiil (it'jfjnger. 

Royal Pop.— Crenm tartar, 1 lb., ginger, 1 J oz., white sugar, 7 
lbs., esflcnce of lemon, 1 drachm, water, G galls., yeast, J pint. Tie 
the corks down. 

Uaspberuy Svarp wirnonx RASPBEitniEB. — Firft make a sjTup 
with 3G Ibj. of while sugar, and 10 gallons of water, and putitiuco 
tt cleiin mixing barrel, '^hen dissolve i lb. of tartaric acid in 1 qt. 
of cold water, and add to the syrup. Next take i lb. orris root, 
and pour over it half a gallon oi boilim/ water; let it infuse until 
cold, then lilter, and mit it into tlio mi.\ing barrel, stirring it well. 

To CoLoii.— Hoil ^ oz. of cochineal ; ij oz. crenm tartar; i oz. 
saleiatus, and | oz. alum in 1 qt. of water till you get a brigiit red 
color, and add this to the pyrtip till tiie color suifa. The above is 
a very valuable receipt, an(l will make lOgais. 8yruj)at a very low 
cost per gallon. If it is desirable to produce a richer syriii), add 
more sugar. Colors ought to be made in a brass or copper kettle. 

Bottled Soda Watku wirnoirT a Machi.nk — In eacn gallon of 
water to bo used, carefully dissolve I lb. of crushed sugar, and one 
ounce of super-carbonate of soda; then lill pint bottles with this 
water, iuivo your corks ready : now drop into each bottle ^ Irara 
of pulverized citric acid, and immediately cork and tie down. 
Handle the bottles carefully, and keep cool until needed. More 
sugar may be added if desired. 

Oysteii Socp.— To eacii dozen or dish of oysters put i pint of 
water; milk, 1 gill; butter^ oz. ; powdered crackers to thicken; 
bring tlie oysters and water to a boil, then add the other ingredients* 
previously mixed together, and boil from three to five minutes onb' 
oea.'^iin with pepper and salt to taste. 

MooK Thrhapin. — A supper di^h. Half a calfs liver ; seasoned, fry 
brown. Hash It, not very fine, dust thickly with flour, a teasjjooi 
mixed mustanl, as much cayenne pepjier as will lie on a half ..ime; 
2 hard eggs, chopped line, a lumji of butter as large as an egg, a 
tea cup of water. Lot it boil a minute or two ; cold veal will do, if 
liver is not liked. 

Mutton Hauricot. — Take a loin of mutton, cut it into small 
chops, season it with ground pei)per, allspice and salt, let it stand 
a niglit, and then fry it. Have good gravy well seasoned with 
flour, butter, catsuj) and pepper, if neces.sary. IJoil turnips and 
carrut-i, cut tiiem small, and add to the mutton stewed in the gravy, 
with the yolks of hard boiled eggs ami force meat balls. 

I.mitation Api'LK Hitter. — Vinegar, 1 qt, ; cheap molasses, 1 qt. ; 
mix together set over tiie (ire till it c<ininiences to cook ; take it off, 
fttid lo liil)lespooufuls of wheat lli>ur, and cold water to make a 
baMer then add 1 qt. .scalding v.alt r. stir and ci i»k for 1;. minutes. 

Blackukhry Wink. — Wash the berries, and |>oiir 1 qt. of boiling 
watrr to eacli fal. Lot thr mi.vti;re .stand V-l lioiir.-;, stirring occi- 
•ionally : then strain and measure into a keg, adding 2 lbs. sugar, 
and goocl rye whisky I jdnt, or best alcohol, ^ pint to eacii g.nl. 
Cork tight, and put away for use. The beet wine that can be made. 



GROCFJIB AND CONFECTIONERS HECEIPTS. 



81 



TiEMON Svnrp.— rinvflna snfrar, 1 Ih., boil in waterdown to a quart, 

(lro|i in t'lv ^^' i*" ' ' ' '■:"': "'• •' ?^M'!!'!i if. A'M \ ( /,. tartarif ac d j 
Ki it 8!ai!i| 2 days; (sUnko oitcii; 12 urops cadiiice of Icmou will 
niiuli iiii| row it- 

,Si I'Kiioii lUiHiN Wine.— Tiiko 30 lbs. of cboppcl raisins fire from 
FUruri iiml diist ; yiit tlii'iii in a liirj^o V:i'i;,iiii(l inlil to th* in l'» giils. 
soft \va!o.-; let tluin Htaiul two wckri iinliun^t'd, shakiiij; occu- 
8i> iially rwaim |iliico in winter), tbeii strain tlirongli woolleu, or 
filter; colctr Avilli burnt piigar ; botllo and cork wdl for use. The 
more rairiiua the better the wiue, not exceeding 5 lbs. to each gal- 
lon. 

Raipiv Wine equal to SiiKiinv. — Roil tbo proper quantity of 
water and ht it stand till cold. To each gal. of lliis water add 4 
lbs. (»f clKippcd raisins, previously well Ava.slicd, und freed from 
gtdlkd , lit tlie wliole stand for 1 niontii, stirring i'rc(iuently ; thcu 
rciiuive tl.e raisins, aiid bnng nii closely for 1 nmiilli ni ire ; then 
ruck in'o nnotl.t r vessel, leaving all pediment bt liii d, which must 
Im rejiea'icd till it becomes line; tlien to every 10 gals, add G lbs. of 
fine eu^riir, and 1 d(»z. of good oranges, the rinds being iiared very 
thin, and infused in 2 qts. of t>randy, whit h should be aiided to tho 
liquor at its last racking. Let the whole staod three nu^ntha 
in tlie cask, then bottle. It should remain bottled twelve months. 
To give it the ilavor of Madeira, when it is in the, cask, put in 
a coufile of green citrons, and let them remain till the wiiie ia 
bottled. 

Pout Wine. — Worked cider, 42 gals. ; good port wine, 12 gala. ; 
gdod brandy, 3 gals.; pure spirits. G gals ; mi.\. Elderberries and 
hIoos, and the fruit of the black Laws, make a Cue purple color 
for wirie,=, or use burnt sugar. 

Ame!iic.\n CiiAMi'AONK. — (lood cidcr (crab-apple cider is tho 
best), 7 gals. ; best fourth-proof brandy, 1 qt. ; genuine champogno 
wine, 5 (jts. ; milk, 1 gal. ; bitartrate of i;t)tassa, 2 oz. Mi.\, and let 
Kiuiid a short time ; bottle while feraieuting. An excellent imita- 
tion. 

l^iimsn CnAUfPAONE. — Loaf-sugar, 5G lbs. ; brown sugar (pale), 48 
lbs. ; water (warm , 45 gals. ; white tartar, 4 oz. ; mix, and at a 
proper temperature add yeast, 1 qt. ; afterwards sweet cider, 6 
gals.; bruised wild cherries, M or 15 oz. ; palo spirits, 1 gal. ; 
orris-powdor, \ oz. Hottle while fermenting. 

hniTisn Madkiua.— Pale malt. 1 bushel ; boiling water, 12gals. ; 
nia-h and f-trnin ; then add white sugar, 4 lbs.; ycasi, 1 lb. 
Fcnncnt, next add raisin or (' >t!0 wine, ;i qtg. ; brandy, 3 qts. ; 
tlicny, 2 qts. ; port, 2 qta. ; bung down. The malt may be mashed 
ajTHiii for (li/ttlo beer. 

t rii! ANT AND oTHEH FmT WiNEs. — To pvcy gallou of expressed 
juici , add 2 gals, soft water, G lbs brown sugar, creani tartar, 
J J oz. ; and qt. brandy to every G gals. ; some i>r(fer it without 
br.inciy. AfU r fermenlalion, take 4 oz isirighiss dissolved in 1 jit. 
of 111'' wine, and i>ut to oacli barrel, wliieh will fine and clear 
it: when it must be drawn into ch an casks, or bottled, which 
is pri'ferable. 

I'LACKHErBT AND SrnAWBERRT WiNES arc made by taking tho 
above wiue when mad« with port wine, and for every 10 gals. 



'IT 

■■;! 
f ■ ■'(•'■ 






t-ii 



^ r| Li 
1i 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




A.%^^^ 



1.0 



1.1 



1^ ^ 12.2 
Hf U£ 111112-0 

u 

aituu 



L25 1 U IJA 



V] 



7 



r 







% 



# 




^^ 



7 




Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STRIET 

WIBSTIR.N.Y. 145S0 

(716) 1172-4503 




fi 



if.^ 



&. 



^ 



k 





O^ 



s 



82 GROCERS AND CONPfltTTlONERS' RECEIPTS. 

frora 4 to 6 qts. of the fresh fruit, bruiseu and strained, are added, 
and let stand four days till the flavor h extracted ; when bottling, 
add 3 or four broken raisins to each bottle. 

MoRELLA Wink.— To each quart of the e.xp^sf'od juice of the mor- 
ella, or tame cherries, add 3 qts. water, and 4 lbs. of coarse brown 
sugar; let thera ferment, and skim till worked clear; then draw off, 
avoiding the sediment at the bottom. Bung up. or b(,ttlo, which 
is best for all wines, letting the bottles lie always on tre side, 
either for wines or buers. 

LoNDo.v Sheruy. — C hopped raisinSj 400 lb?.; soft water, 100 gals.; 
sugar, 45 lbs.; Avhite tartar, 1 lb.; cider, 1) g.ils. Lot thorn stand 
together in a close ves.sel one raontli ; stir frequently. Then add of 
spirits, 8 gals. ; wild cherries bruised, 8 lbs. Let them stand one 
month longer, and fine with isinglass. 

Enc.ush Patent Wine from Rhubarb. — To each gal. of juice, add 
1 gal. soft water, in which 7 lbs brown sugar have been dissolved ; 
fill a keg or barrel with this pro[)ortion, leaving the bu ig out, 
and keep it filled with sweetened water as it works off, until cL'ar, 
Any other vegetable extract may be u^^ed if tliis is not liked : then 
bung down or bottle as you please. The stiilks will yiidd 4 tlicir 
weight in juice ; fine and settle with ising.ass as above. This wjue 
will not lead to intemperance. 

Various Wines. — To 28 g.ils. clarified cider add good brandy, 1 
gal.; crude tartar (this is what is deposited by grape Avines), milk 
to settle it, 1 pt. ; draw off 30 hours after thoroughly mixing. 

Ginger Wine. — Put one oz. of good ginger-root bruised in I qt. 
95 per. cent, alcohol; let it stand nine days, and strain ; add 4 qts. 
water, and 1 lb. white sugar dissolved in hot water, color with 
tincture of sanders to suit. For bar-purposes add 1 pt. port 
wine. 

Another. — To 1 qt. 95 per cent, alcohol add 1 oz. b;3St ginger- 
root (bruised but not ground), 5 grs. cajisicnn. uiid I dr. tiirtaric- 
acid. Let it stand one week aud filter; now add 1 gil. water in 
which 1 lb. of crushed sugar has been boiled. Mix when cold. To 
make the color, boil i oz. cochineal, 5 oz. cream ta'-tar, J oz. sale- 
ratus, and J oz. alum, in one pt. of water till you get a bright-red 
00^ or. 

To RRSTORE Flat Wine.— Add 4 or 5 gals, of sugar, honey, or 
bruised raisins to every inO gals., and bung close ; a little spirit may 
be added, to roughen ; take bruised sloes, or powdered catechu, and 
add to the wine in suitable proportions, or add a small quantity of 
bruised berries of the mountain ash, to allav inordinate flatness. Let 
it stand 2 hours aud bottle, using yeast, of course, as before. 

White Wines are generally fined by isinglass in the jiroportion 
of li oz. (dissolved in li pts. of water, and thinned with someof the 
wine) to the hogshead. lied Winft are generally fined with the 
whites of eggs, in tiie jiroportion of 12 to 18 lo each pipe ; theyraust 
be well beaten to a froth with about 1 pt. of water, und afterwards 
mixed with a little of the wine, before adding them to the liquor. 
Rummage well. 

CiiAMi'AGNR CiDRR.—Good pale cider, 1 hhd. ; spirit, ^ gals ; sngfir, 
20 lbs. ; mix, and let it stand one fortnight ; then fi le with skimmed 
milk, i gal. ; this will bo very palo, aud a similar article, ^\:en pro- 



GllOCtllS AND confectioners' RECEIPTS. 



83 



pcrly bottled and labelled, opens so brisk, that even good judges 
b!:vo uiistakcn it for genuine cliiim])agne. 

];Kiii,iN Cahhaway Cukdial. — Tjike Hpals spirit, 50 per cent. ; 1 oz. 
Oil ofciirriiAvuy, which you dissolve in spirit 95 per cf-nt. ; 8 Iba. sugar ; 
8 lbs vater. Didsolvo your sugar in the water; mix, stir and filter. 

SroMACic Bitters Equal to Hostktteks'. — European gentian 
root, 1 5 oz. : <>raiige peel, 2i oz. ; cinnamon, i oz. ; anise seed, J oz. ; 
coriaiider seed, ^ oz. ; cardamom seed, { oz. ; unpvound Peruvian 
bark, ^ oz. ; gum kino, \ oz. ; bruise all these articles, and put them 
into tlie best alcohol, I pt. ; let it stand a week, and pour off the 
clear tincture; then boil the dregs a few minutes in 1 qt, of water, 
strain, and press out all the strength ; now dissolve loaf sugar, 1 lb., 
in the hot liquid, adding 3 qts. cold water, and mix with the spirit 
tincture first poured off, or you can add these, and let it stand on 
the dregs if jireferred. 

BuKEiis BiTTEKS.— Rasped quassia, IJ oz. ; calamus, IJ oz. ; pow- 
dered catechu, 1^ oz. ; cardamom, 1 oz. ; dried orange peel, 2 oz. ; 
macc'iate the alM)ve ten days in ^ gal. strong \Ahisky, and then fil- 
ler, and add 2 gals, water ; color with mallow or malva flowers. 

tUKACOA CoKDiAL, 40 Gals.— Esscucc of bitter oiangcs, 2 oz. ; ess. 
o neroli, 2 oz ; ess. of cinnamon, J oz. ; 3 drs. mace, infused in alco- 
hol Dissolve the above essences in * gal. alcohol, 95 per cent, ; 
then put in a clean barrel 13 gals, alcoliol, 85 per v^ent. ; 2G gals. 
siigar syrup, 30 degrees Baiimc ; and add 1 gal. perfumed spirit aa 
above. Color with saffron or turmeric. 

OuuAcoA D'HoLiiANDE, 20 Gals. — Curacoa orange-peel, 2 lbs ; J lb. 
Ceykm cinnamon. Let them soak in water ; boil them for five 
minutes with the juice of 32 oranges and 14 gals, of plain wh'te 
synip ; then add G gals, alcohol, 95 per cent, j strain, filter; color 
dark yi'Uow with sugar coloring. 

Anisette Coudial, 40 Gals. — Put in a barrel 13 gals, alcohol, 75 
per cent. Dissolve 3j oz. essence of green anise-seed in 1 gal. 95 
percent, alcohol, and add jj gal. orange-flower water: 8 or ten drops 
infusion of mace, and 5 drops essence of cinnamon. Then put in the 
barrel 2G gals, sugar syrup, 25 degrees Baume ; stir fifteen minutes, 
and let it rest four or five days ; then filter. Add 2 or 3 sheets of 
filtering paper. 

11a TAFIA. — Ratafia may be made with the juice of any fruit. Take 
3 gals, cherry juice, and 4 lbs. sugar, which you dissolve in the juice ; 
steep in 2^ gals, brandy ten days ; 2 drs. cinnamon, 24 cloves; 16 
oz. peach-leaves ; 8 oz. bruised cherry kernels. Filter, mix both 
liquids, and filter again. 

AiiuACK Punch Syhup. — 53i lbs. sugar; 3J gals, water. Boil up 
Well; then add Ij gals, lemon-juice to the boiling sugar, and stir 
till liie liquid is clear ; pour it in a clean tub, and when nearly cool, 
add 5 gals. Batavia arrack , then filter. 

fc^iMPLE Syi;ui>. — To 8 lbs. best white sugar add 2 qts. water, and 
the whites of 2 eggs ; stir until all the sugar is dissolved ; simmer 
for two or three minutes : skim well, and strain through a fine flan- 
nel bag. 

Sarbaparilla Syrup.— To simple syrup add 10 drops oil of anise, 
20 drops oil of wintergreen, 20 drops oil of sassafras, and 6 oz. of 
caramel or colering to the gallon. Before the oili ar« added to th« 



J^. 



:} 



' I ',1 



84 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



syrup, they should bo cut by grinding them in a mortar with as 
much sugar as they will moisten, or mix with a small quantity ot 
alcohol. 

VANiLiiA Syuup. — To simple syrup, add J oz. of ext. of vanilla to 
the gallon. 

GixVGKii Syrup. — Bruised Jamaica ginger, I oz. ; boiling water, 1 
pt. ; macerate for four hours ; add line while sugar, 2 lbs. ; and s'raiu 
through a fine flannel bag. Ginger syrup may also be made by ad- 
ding 2 oz. of the ext. of ginger to 1 gal. of simple synip. 

Strawbbrey Syrup WITHOUT Strawberries. — Add to 1 gal. simple 
Byrup 2 teaspoons of essence of strawberry, and i oz. tartaric acid; 
color with coloring made as follows : boil I oz. of cochineal witli 
half a teaspoonful of cream tartar. 

Strawberry Syrup. — Inclose fresh strawbarrics in a coarse bag, 
press out the juice, aud to eachqt. add 1 pt. water and Gibs, white 
sugar ; dissolve by raising it to the boiling point, and strain ; bottle 
and cork hot, ana keep in a cool place. 

Blackberry Syrup is made as directed for strawberry, adding 
to each qt. 1 oz. best French brandy. 

Wild Cherry Syhup.— Stee]) 4oz. wild cherry bark, well bruised 
in 1 pt. of cold water, for tliirty-?ix hours; press out tlie infusion; 
let it stand till clear, decant and add IJ lbs", fine white sugar ; mix 
and strain. 

Nectar Syrup. — Add to orgeat syrup 1 pt. of best port wine, and 
I oz. extract of vanilla to the gal. ; or flavor 1 gal. simple syrup 
with 1 teaspoonful ext. of nectar. 

Orgeat Syrup. — Take 3 oz. of sweet almonds, and i oz. bitter 
almonds; gum arable, in powder, \ oz. ; sugar in i)owder, 3 oz. ; rub 
together in a mortar, adding water from time to time until tlio 
mixture measures 1 qt. Strain through a cloth, and mix with 1 
gal. of simple syrup. 

OiiANGK Flower Syrup. — Add to 1 gal. of simple syrup, J oz. ext. 
of orange flowers. 

Orange Syrup. — Grate off the outside yellow peel of fresh and 
ripe oranges ; cut them and express the juice : to eacTi qt add 1 ]it. 
water and 6 lbs. sugar, previously well mixed with the grated peel. 
Dissolve by gentle heat, then strain. 

Pine Apple Syrup. — Pare and mash the fruit in a marble or por- 
celain mortar, with a sma'l quantity ot sugar ; express tiie juice, and, 
for each qt. take 1^ pts. of water and G lbs. fine sugar; boil the 
sugar and water ; then add the juice ; remove from tbe fire ; skim 
and strain. Or make it with the essence directed for strawberry. 

Peau Syrup.— Make as directed fc r pine apple syrup ; or use the 
essence of pear, by adding to each gallon of simple syrup, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of essence of pear, and ^ oz. tartaric acid. 

Banana Syrup, — Make as directed ror pine apple syrup, or witli 
the appropriate essence and acid .a above. 

Apple Syrup. — Make as directed for pine apple syrup, or with 
the appropriate fruit and o.sscnce3 as abov^. 

CiiKAM Syrup. — Fresh cream, 1 pt. ; frc^h milk, 1 pt. ; fine pow- 
dered sugar, 3 lbs.; heat the s\igar with the milk, and the whites of 
2 » gT^; tlicn mix with tlie cream. Flavor with lumon, vanilla, or 
strawberry. Keep in a cool place, well bottled. 



GROCERS AND OONrEOTIONERS RECEIPTS. 



85 



BoTTKic Ethtjr is much used to impart a pine apple flavor to 
rum. Dissolved in 8 or 10 parts of alcohol, it forms the pine apple 
essence. From 20 to 25 drops of this essence, added to 1 lb. 
suo-ar, containing? a little citric acid, imparts to the mi.xture a strong 
taste of pine apple. 

Amylo-Acetic Ether is a preparation of frmt-oil and other 
ingredients, and, when diluted with alcohol, it is sold a'? essence of 
Jargonelle pear, and is used for flavoring different liquors. Fifteen 
parts amylo-acetic ether, with half a part of acetic ether, dissolved 
in 100 parts of alcohol, form what may be called the Bergamot- 
pear essence, which, when employed to flavor supar, acidulated 
with a 'ittle citric acid, imparts the odor of the Besgamot pear, 
and a fruity, refreshinsf taste. 

Pelargonatb or ETnYLic Ethkr Tpelargonic ether) has the 
agreeable odor of the quince, and, when dissolved in alcohol in 
due proportion, forms the quince essence. 

Acetate op Amylic Etheu ("same as amylo ether), mixed with 
bufi/ric ether, forms in alcoholic solution the banana essence. 

VAiiERiANATE OF Amyltc Ether.— An alcoholic solution of this 
ether in tl e proportion of 1 part to 6 or 8 of alcohol, forms a flavor- 
ing liquid inder the name of apple essence. 

Milk Pc rcH. — One tablespoonful of fine white sugar, 2 ditto of 
water, I wine glass of Cognac brandy, i ditto Santa Cruz rum, i 
tumblerful of shaved ice ; fill with milk. Shake the ingredients well 
together, and grate a little nutmeg on top. To make it hot, use 
hot milk and no ice. 

Glasgow Punch. — Melt lump-sugar in cold water, with the juice 
of a couple of lemons, passed through a fine wire strainer ; this is 
sherbet, and most be will mingled. Then add old Jamaica rum, 
one part of rum to five of sherbet. Cut a couple of lemons in two, 
and run each section rapidly around the edge of the jug or bowl, 
gently squeezing in some of the delicate acid, when all is ready. 

Mint Julep. — One tablespoonful of white pulverized sugar, 2J 
ditto water ; mix well with a spoon. Take 3 or 4 sprigs of fresh 
mint, press them well in the sugar and water, add 1^ wine glasses 
of Cognac brandy, and fill the glass with shaved ice, then draw 
out the sprigs of mint, and insert them in the ice with the stems 
downwards, so that the loaves will be above in the shape of a bou- 
quet; arrange berries and small pieces- of sliced orange on top in a 
tasty manner, dash with Jamaica rum, and sprinkle sugar on top. 
Sip with a glass tube or straw. 

Cider Nectar. — One qt. cider, 1 bottle soda water, I glass sherry, 
1 small glass brandy, juice of half a lemon, peel of i of a lemon, 
sugar and nutmeg to taste. Flavor it with extract of pine apple, 
strain, and ice it all well. 

Half and Half. — In London, this drink is made by mixing half 

Sorter and half ale ; in America, it is made by mixing half new and 
alf old ale. 

Apple Toddy. — One tablespoonful of fine white sugar, 1 wine- 
glass of cider brandy, J of a baked apple. Pill the glass two- 
thirds full of boiling water, and grate a little nutmeg on top. 

Applk: PuNCn. — Lay in a china bowl slices of apples and lomons 
alternately, each layer being thickly strewed with Dowdered sugur. 



H 



Hi: 




I 

'' •. I' 



u 



^jli'^'i 



I 'Hi' 



;'5 



(i.'fl 



86 



GttOOERS AND CONPECTIONfiRS' RECEIPTS. 



■ T 



Pour over the fruit, when the bowl is half filled, a bottle of claret ; 
cover, and lot it staid for 6 hours. Then pour it through a mug- 
lin bag, and it is all ready. 

Old Man's Mjlk.— One wine-gla3i5 of port wine, 1 teaspoonful of 
sugar. Fill the tumbler one third full of hot milk. 

PKnnjCT Love. One tablespoouful sufrar, 1 piece eacl) of 
orange and lemon peel. Fill the tumbler one-third full of siiavod 
ice, and fill balance with wine ; ornament in a tasty manner with 
terried in eea.son ; sip through a straw. 

Molasses Candy. — West-Indian molasses, 1 gallon ; brown sugar, 
2 lbs. ; boil the molasses and sugar iu a preserving kettle over a 
ilov/ fire ; when done enough it will cease boiling ; stir frequently, 
mud, when nearly done, stir in the juice of four lemons, or two tea- 
3p<'!)uful3 of essence of lemon ; afterwards butter a pan, and pour out. 

^ oNFKCTiONBHt^' Colors. — weri, cochineal, 1 oz. ; boil 5 minutes 
In half ])int water ; then add cream tartar, I oz. ; pounded alum, i 
oz. ; boil 10 minutes longer, add sugar, 2 oz ; and bottle for use. 
Blue, put a little warm water on a pLite, and rub in indigo till the 
required color is got. Yellow, rub with s 'ne water a little yellow 
pamboge on a plate, or infuse the heart of a yellow-lily fiower 
with milk-wanu water. Green, boil the leaves of spinach about 1 
■aii'iute in a little water, and, when strai led, bo;tle for use. 

To Candy Sugar. — Dissolve 2 parts of double refined sugar in 1 
of water. Great care must be taken that the syrup does not boil 
over, and that the sugar is not burnt. The first degree is called 
the thread, Avhicii is subdivided into the little and great thread ; 
if you dip your finger in the syrup, and apply it to the thumb, the 
tenacity of the s.vrup will, on separating the fingei- and thumb, "f- 
furd a thread which shortly breaks, this is the little thread ; if the 
tlireid admits of a greater extension of finger and thumb, it is 
called the gr<-at thread ; by longer boiling yoii obtain the pearl, 
which admits of being drawn without breaking by the utmost ex- 
tension of fingerand ihumb ; this makes candied sugar: by further 
boiling von obtain the blue, which is known by dipping a skimmer 
with holes in the syrup, and blowing through them ; if bubbles are 
perceived, you have got the blow. The feather implies more numer- 
ous bubbles, and then the sugar will fly off like flakes while the 
skimmer is being tossed. By boiling longer^ you obtain the erack ; 
it will crack when b^-oken, and does not stick to the teeth ; dip a 
teaspoon into the sugar, and let it drop to tne bottom of a pan of 
cold water. If the sugar remains hard, it has attained the degree 
termed crack. 

Fig Candy. — Take 1 lb. of sugar and 1 pint of water; set over a 
slow fire. When done, add a few drops of vinegar and a lump of 
butter, and pour into pans in which split fig.^ are laid. 

Raisin Candy can be made in the same manner, substituting 
stoned raisins for the figs. Common molasses candy is very nice 
with all kinds of nuts added. 

Scotch Butter Candy. — Take 1 lb. of sugar and 1 pint of water ; 
dissolve, and boil. When done, add one tablespoouful of butter, 
and enough lemon Juice and oil of lemon to flavor. 

Common Lemon C andy. — Take 3 lbs. of coarse brown sugar ; add 
to it three teacupfula of water, and set over a slow tire for hall' 



syrup. 



GROCEHS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 87 

an hour ; put to it a little gum arabic dissolved in hot water; tliia 
is to cl< ar it. Continue to take off the scum as lonp: as nny risen. 
Wilt ji |)erfectly clear, try it by dipping a pipe-stem iirst into it and 
then into cold witter, or by taking a spoonful of it into a saucer; 
if (lone, it will snap like glass. Flavor with essence of lemon 
and cut it into sticks. 

Pepfermikt, Rose, on Hoarhound Candy. — They maybe made 
as lemon candv. Flavor with essence of rose or pepi)ermint or 
finely powdered hoarhound. Pour it out in a buttered paper, 
placed in a square tin j an. 

Poi'PED Corn, dipped in boiling molasses, and stuck together^ 
fciius an excellent candy. 

Rock Candv. — To make fine rock randy, clarify double refined 
wliite sugar, filter it, and boil it till it is ready to crystallize, or 
boiled to a blister. The boiling sugar must measure 35° on the 
syrup weight, a degree more or less prevents its crystallization. 
Then take a brass kettle, of about IG or 18 inches diameter and 
from 6 to 8 inches deep, smooth and polished on the inside. Make 
8 or 10 small holes at equal distances from each other in a circle 
around the sides of the kettle, about 2 inches from the bottom ; 
pass threads through these from one side to the other, and stop 
the holes on the outside with paste or paper to prevent the syrup 
from ruiming out. Having thus prepared the kettle, pour in the 
syrup, till it rises about an iuoji above the threads; then place it 
in a stove moderately heated, and leave it to crystallize, agitating 
it from time to time. The crystallization will take place in six or 
seven days. As soon as the crystals are formed, pour off the 
remaining syrup, and throw in a little water to wash the crystals 
that are left at the bottom of the vessel. So sooo as the paass is 
thoroughly drained set it in a very hot stove, leave it for two days, 
when it is fit for use. Straw-coloured rtick candy is made by 
substituting brown for loaf sugar. The syrup must be boiled over 
a very hot tire in order to render the canay perfectly white. The 
sides of tliejcettle should be sponged repeatealy during the boilirg 
process, to j^revent the sugar from adhering and burning. 

Ohangb Rock Candy is made by flavoring the syrup with a 
couple of teaspoonfuls of orange flower water, and coloring with 
safl'ron, just as the syrup is about to be taken from the fire. Rose 
Rock Candy it flavored with rose water, and colored with clarified 
carmine lake. Vamlla Rock Candy is perfumed with vanilla, and 
colored with liquid violet. The degree of coloring may be tested 
by dropping a little of the colored syrup on a sheet of white 
pajjcr. 

CJiNGKR Candy. — Dissolve 1 lb. double-refined sugar in J pint of 
spring water ; set it over a clear fire, and let it boil to a thih 
syrup. Have ready a teaspoonful of powdered ginger, mix it 
smoothly with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of the syrup, then stir it graduifilly 
into the whole Boil the mixture into a ^aA:*?, watching it, care- 
fully, that it may not exceed this point ; then add the freshly- 
grated rind of a large lemon, and stir the sugar constantly apd 
rai idly until it fall in a mass from the spoon, without sinking when 
dropped upon a plate. If boiled for a moment beyond this point, 
it will fall into a powder. Should this happen by mistake, add a 



-'tii- 



m 



■m 



I 



i :2 



m 



u 



'. 


f 






1 






te 




■ 




i' 


n 




Jl 






1 







88 OROOBRS AND CONFECTIONERS' EE0EIPT8, 

little water, and boil to the proper consistency. Dip the can^y 
from the kettle, and drop it in small cakes upon buttered pans, 
then set it away to cool. « 

Orbam Candy.— To 3 lbs. loaf sugar add * pt. water, and set 
it over a slow fire for half an hour; then add a teaspoonful of 
gum arable dissolved, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil it till 
U is brittle, then take it off, and flavor with vanilla, rose, or orange, 
Rub the hands wi>a sweet butter, and pull the candy till it ia 
white ; then twist or break it, or stretcn it out into thin white 
■trips, and cut it off. 

t^a Vbbdun Sugared Almonds. — Dry the almonds in a stove by 
a slow fire. When dry enough to snap between the teeth, put 
them into a swinging basin and gum them by throwing over them 
a little gum arabic solution, cold ; swing them constantly till dry ; 
then give them another coating of gum arabic mixed with 4 oz. 
sugar, and swing them again till dry, using no fire. When they 
are thoroughly dry, set them over a moderate fire. Dissolve some 
sugar in orange or rose water, not too thin, set it over the fire 2 
or 3 minutes, strain it through a sieve, and pour it over the 
almonds in the basin. Swing them till they are tnoroughly coated 
and dried ; then add another coating, composed of 2 parts of 
carmine, one part of gum, and one part of sugar, and proceed as 
before. If the almonds are not perfectly covered, give them a 
coating in which there is considerable gum ; and when thoroughly 
moistened, throw on them some sifted sugar, stir till the mixture 
is all absorbed, then add successive coatings of sugar till they are 
large enough, and put them into the stove to remain tiU the next 
day, when in order to whiten them, you will proceed to boil 6 or 7 
lbs. of fine clarified sugar to a blister, add 1 lb. of starch after 
taking it from the fire, stirring it constantly till a paste is formed a 
little thicker than that used for pastilles ; a few drops of blue lake 
may be added to produce a pearl white. Put the almonds, warm, 
into the swinging basin, add enough of the prepared sugar to coat 
them, swing the basin till they are nearly dry, then set on the fire 
to finish the drying, then take the basin off tne fire, heap them up 
in the middle, so as to allow the bottom of the vessel to cool : 
then add the coating of sugar, swing and dry them as before, and 
continue the process until 4 successive coatings of equal thickness 
have boen given ; then heat them well in the basin, put them into 
pans, and set them in the stove to remain over night. You will 
then proceed to polish them by giving them a coat of the prepared 
sugar and starch, and shake them violently until they are quite 
dry; give them another coating and proceed as before, and 
continue the process until they have received 4 successive coatings, 
when thev will generally be found suflRciently polished. When 
the polishing is finished, put the almonds over a fire and stir 
gentry till all are thoroughly heated, then place in a stove till the 
next day in a picker basket lined with paper. 

Spanish Sugared Almonds.— Make verdun sugared almonds about 
the size of pigeon's eggs, whiten and polish them by the ftrevious 
directions, and paint different designs on them when completed. 

Superfine Vanilla Sugared Almonds. — Proceed in toe same 
manner as in the manufacture of rerdun sugared almonds, make 



GEOCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 89 



I 



the Bolntion of sugar in pure water; crush the essence of vanilla 
with a little sufiiir, and put in tlie solution. 

Common Scgahed Almonds. — Common almonds, 20 lbs., sugar 
8 lbs , farina, 20 lbs., starch, 2 lbs. Heat the almonds iu tlio swing- 
ing basin, when they boil, make them into a pulp with diluted 
starch ; give first a warm then a cold coating, cover them with 
farina, shaking the basin violently ; then, when the almonds have 
been coated to the requisite size, spread them out on sieves ; after a 
fortniglit put them in a stove to finish drying; whiten them, and 
finish hy the process described for the fine sugared almonds. 

SuPERPiNE Chocolate Sugared Almonds. — Caraccasa cacao- 
nuts, shelled and roasted, 20 lbs., Martinique sugar, 16 lbs., vanilla 
4 drs., starch, 10 oz. The same method is required as for the 
superfine vanilla sugar plums, but care must be taken in adding 
the coatings of gum, to touch the cacao nuts lightly, as they are 
very easily broken. 

SupEUFiNB SuQABED FiLBaRTS. — Filbcrts, 50 lbs., sugar, 4 lbs., 
starch, 4 oz. Employ tlie same process as for sugared alraonda 
and flavor t,o taste. Rose watey is generally preferred on account 
of its color and fragrance. 

CoRiANDEii SjoahPloms. — Coriander, 2 lbs. farina, 30 lbs. sugar, 
14 lbs. The washings of the basin are added to the coriander and 
fariua without making a paste, and the method is followed that has 
been prescribed for the common sugared almonds; 8 lbs. of sugar 
are used to whiten them, and 6 to polish them ; color after being 
polished with carmine, Prussian blue, and saflFron. 

Coriander in Bottles. — Coriander, 10 lbs., farina, 10 lbs., sugar 
for the whitening, 3 lbs., starch, 1 lb. These are simply colored, and 
do nou require brilliancy. They are made of the size of small peas, 
and nre put into little bottles. In making these follow the receipt 
for common sugared almonds. 

Anise-seed Sugar Plums,- Dry 2 lbs. of green anise-seed in the 
stove ; rub it in the hands to break off the stems, winnow to rid of 
dust, then put it into a swinging basin, and coat it with sugar 
boiled to a thread, so as to render the candies hard and brittle. 
When coated sufficiently, whiten and polish them, like the verdun 
sugared almonds. They vary in size, being generally as large &a 
a pea. 

Mint Sugar Plums. — Dry some peppermint seed in a stove and 
coat it in the same manner as anise-seed (it must not, however, be 
whiter than rape seed), whiten and finish like anise-seed. The 
first coating is sometimes composed of equal parts of peppermi ^t 
and sugar. 

Common Twist Candy. — Clarify 3 lbs. of common brown sugar, 
and boil it till it is brittle, take it from the fire, pour it in butterda 
pans ; rub the hands with a little butter, and as soon as it is 
cooled, pull it as you would molasses candy until it is perfectly 
white ; then twist and braid it, and cut it into sticke. 

Caramel is made by boiling clarified sugar till it la very brittle, 
then pouring it on an oiled slab or sheet of tin, and, as soon as it 
is cool enough to receive an impression with the finger, stamping 
it in small squares, about an inch in size with 8 caramel mould ; 
then turning over the mass, wiping the bottom to remove any oil 



W 



<i t 






'I, 
ft slit; 



90 



OaOCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 



that may have adhered fro n the slab, and putting it in a dry place 
to harden. If you liiive no ciir.inii^l would, you niny scure it on 
the slab with a coinmou case knife, after which thi-y arc glazed 
with another coating of sugar. Keep them tightly closed fnmi iho 
air after they are made. 

Lemon Cauamel is made by grating the yellow rind r f a lemon 
with a lump of sugar ladd to this a few drops of lemon juice with 
water enough to dissolve the sugar completely, and stir the wlioio 
into the boiled syrup a few minutes before it is taken from the fire. 
Orange and Lime caramels are prepared in the same manner from 
these respective fruits. Coffee caramel^ coffee, 2 oz., sugar, 1 lb. Make 
an infusion of the coflfee, using as little water as possible ; strain it 
through a cloth, and stir it gradually i.ito the boiled syrup a few 
minutes before taking it from the fire. Chocolate caramel^ clioco- 
late, 4 oz., sugar, I lb. Dissolve the chocolate in as little water as 
possible, and add it to the boiled sugar, as in the coffee caramels. 
Vanilla and Orange cream caramels are made by using the resjjec- 
tive essences of tliese fruits. 

CocoA-NuT Candy. — Pare and cut cocoa-nut into slips, or grate 
on a coarse grater the white mwU of cocoa-nuts until you have 
I a pound ; dissolve J lb. of loaf sugar in 2 tablespoonfuls of 
water ; put it over the fire, and, as soon as it boils, stir in ihe 
c«coa-nut. Continue to stir it until it is boiled 'to a flake, then 
pour it on a buttered pan or marble slab, and cut it in whatever 
form you wish, when it is nearly cold. Lemon or other flavors 
may be added. 

Candy Drops or Pastilles. — Pound and sift double-refined 
sugar, first through a rather coarse, then through a fine sieve. Put 
the sugar into an earthen vessel, and dilute it with the flavoring 
extract, mixed with a little water. If too liquid, the syrup will be 
too thin, and the drops will run together ; while, if too thick, the 
syrup will be too compact, and cannot be poured out easily. When 
the sugar is mixed into a rather stiff paste, put it into a small 
saucepan with a spout, and set it over the fire. As soon as it 
begins to bubble up the sides of the saucepan, stir it once in the 
middle, take it from the fire, and drop it in small lumps, of the size 
and shape required, upon sneets of tin, to stand for 2 hours, then 
put them in the stove to finish drying. As soon as they are ^er- 
lectly hard and brilliant, take them from the fire, otherwise they will 
lose their aroma. Color the syrup just before taking it from the fire, 

Orange, Jasmine, and Clove Drops are made by mixing the above 
paste with these respective extracts : 

For Salad Drops. — Water distilled from lettuce is used. 

Saffron Drops.— Make an infusion of saffi-on, strain it, let» it 
cool, use it to mix the paste, and proceed as before. 

Heliotrope Drops. — Proceed in the same manner, flavoring 
the paste with a few drops oil of neroli, or oil of orange, jasmine, 
and tube-rose, and color violet. 

Pink Drops. — Flavor the paste with tincture of red pinks, and 
color with carmine lake. 

Cinnamon Drops. — Mix 5 drs. powdered cinnamon and 8 oz. of 
sugar with mucilage enough to make it into a paste, and proceed 
as above. 






GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 91 



MAT^sriM ALLOW AND LicoRiCB drops aro made the saino way. 

HoHK Diiops — Mix the jmsti; with rose water, and color with 
caniiinc lake. Prtioeod as above. 

Vioi-ET Ditops.— Flavor the jj.'iste with tincture of Florence iris, 
and culcr with blue aiul carmine lal^es. A fow drops of tartaric 
acid may be added to sustain the blue. 

Lemon and Ouanor Dhops.— Rasp off the yellow rind of an 
orange or lemon ; mix the raspings with double-refined sugar ; 
add ;') grs. cf tartaric acid to every ])ound of sugar, color with 
yellow lake or saffron, and proceed as before. If too much tartaric 
acid is used, the candies will adhere to the sheets of tin. 

CoFFE-) Drops.- Substitute a strong, filtered infusion of coffee 
for water, in mixing tl e paste. 

CimcoLATK Diiops.— For evoi-y pound of sugar, take 5 pts. good 
cliocolate, pulverize it, and mix it inio a past'', as already directed, 
taking cure not to boil the paste too long, lest it granulate, and 
become unfit for use. 

Vamlla Diiops — Mix the paste with extract of vanilla, or finely- 
ground vanilla boan : to which add 2 oz. 3 grs. of tartaric aci<S, 
dissolved in water, to sustain the blue, without which it would 
disa])])ear. 

Imitation Currant Drops. — Mix the paste with water^ adding a 
little essence of raspberry and of violet, or Florence iris, with a 
little tartaric acid dissolved in water; color with carmine, and 
proi'oed as above. 

Peppe' MINT Drops. — Dissolve finely-powdered sugar with a little 
strong pejjpermint-water in a saucepan with a spout. As soon as 
it is thoroughly dissolved, add an equal quantity of coarse-grained 
sugar with a few drops more of peppermint, stu the whole for a 
few moments, then drop the mixture on paper, and dry it in the 
ojien air. In the same way are made lemon, rose, vanilla, and 
otl)cr drops. Citric and tartaric acid may be used to increase the 
acidity of lemon drops. 

Extemporaneous PastillBs. — Make the paste as usual, without 
flavoring the water, drop the pastillea upon paper, leave them for 
> ..'0 hours, then take them off and put them into the stove to dry. 
When wanted for use, put the quantity required into a large-mouthed 
jar, and flavor as desired. For instance, to make 2 lbs. of pepper- 
mint drojiS, take 5 ptii. of sulphuric ether in which are diluted a 
few drops of essence of peppermint, and pour it over the candies, 
then cover the jar, and shake it until they are ihorouglily moistened ; 
then place them on a sieve-, and set them in the siove for 5 minutes, 
evaporate the ether. In this manner rose, orange, lemon, jonquil, 
tube-rose, mignonette, clove, cinnamon, or any other drops may bo 
L,;de, dissolving their essential oils in sulphuric ether. 

(jiNGEii Candy Tablets. — Take 1 lb. loaf sugar, a few drops of 
acetic acid or the jiiice of half a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of 
essence (^f Jamaica ginger. Boil the sucfi'.r with just water enough 
t(i disi-iCilve it to tlie ball degree, then add the acid and tlie essence, 
and rub the sugar with the back part of the bowl of a silver spoon 
up aeainat the sides of the sugar-boiler to whiten or grain it suffi- 
ciently to give to the whole an opalized appearance ; then ]»our it 
into very small-sized moulds, measuring half an inch or an inch 



if 



fn 



92 QROCERS AND CONFECTIONEns' RECEIPTS. 

oblong square, or else into a tin pan, the bottom part of which is 
marked out in small tablets, 80 that the candy may be easily 
broken into Bquaros when dry. Smear the nioiikls slightly with 
oil of almonds. When the sugar is poun-d into the moulds, place 
in the screen for half an hour or rrore, to dry them hard. 

Orange Flowek Candy Table.s. — Ingredients : 1 lb. loaf sugar, 
a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and a few drops of acetic 
acid. Proceed as directed in the preceding. No color. 

Vanilla Candy Tabletb.— Ingredients : 1 lb. of loaf sugar, a few 
drops of essence of vanilla sugar, and a few drops of acetic acid. 
Proceed as for ornaments in grained sugar. 

Peppermint Candy Tablets. -Ingredients : 1 lb. of loaf sugar, 
a few dr )p8 of essence of peppermint, and a few drops of acetic 
acid. Proceed as above. No color. 

Liqueur Candy Tablets. — Ingredients: 1 lb. of loaf sugar, nnd 
a gill of any kind of liqueur. Boil the sugar to the crack, then 
incorporate the liqueur, and finish as in the preceding. No 
color. 

Cinnamon Candy Tablets.— Use 1 lb. loaf sugar, and a few 
drops essence of cinnamon. Proceed as in the last. This may be 
colored rose pink, the color to be added while the sugar is boil* 
ing. 

Olovb Candy Tablets are prepared in the same way as the 
foregoing, essence of cloves being used Instead of cinnamon. 

Rose Candy Tablets. — Use 1 lb. of loaf sugar, a few drops of 
essence of roses, a few drops of acetic acid, and a tew drops of pre- 
pared cochineal. Proceed as in the preceding. 

Fruit Candy Tablets. — Use 1 lb. of loaf sugar, | pint of tlio 
juice of any kind of fruit, either currants, cherries, strawberries, 
raspberries, &c., extracted by pressing with aspooti tlirough a clean 
hair-sieve. Boil the sugar to the crack, and then incorporate the 
fruit juice by rubbing it in with the sugar, as directe(? in the pre- 
ceding, and iinish the candies as therein indicated. 

To pbbb Molasses from its Sharp Taste, and to rendrb it pit 
TO be used instead op Sugar. — Take 24 lbs molasses. 24 ll>a. water, 
and G pounds of charcoal, coarsely pulverized ; mix them in a kettle, 
and boil the whole over a slow wood fire. When the mixture has 
boiled halt an hour, pour it into a flat vessel, in order that the char- 
coal may subside to the bottom ; then pour ofi'the liquid, and place 
it over the fire once more, that the superfluons water may evapo- 
rate, and the molasses be brought to its former cousisteace. 24 
lbs. of molasses will produce 24 lbs of eyrnp. 

Peppermint Lozenges.— Ingredients ; 1 oz. of picked gum traga- 
canth soaked with 2 oz. of tepid water in a gallipot (this takes 
some 6 hours), and afterwariis squeezed and wrung through 
a cloth, about IJ lbs. of fine icing sugar, and a teaspoonful of 
essence of peppermint. Work the prepared gum with the flattened 
fist on a very clean slab until it becomes perfectly white and elis- 
ic, then gradually work in the sugar, adding the peppermint when 
I he paste has become a compact, smooth, elastic substance ; a few 
drops of thick, wet, cobalt blue should also be added while work- 
ing the paste, to give it a brilliant whiteness. The paste thus pre- 
pared is to be rolled out with fine sugar dredged over the slab to 



GROCERS AND OONFECTIONEBs' RECEIPTS. 9o 



.ok, then 
ing. No 



the 



tho thickness of two penny pieces, then if you poaseau a ribbed 
rolliiig-pin, Hse it to roll the paste avain in cross directions, so ai 
to impriiit on its whole surface a small lozenge or diamond pattern. 
You now use your tin cutter to stamp out the lozenges, ana as you 
do so place them on sugar powdered baking sheets to dry in the 
screen. 

Ginger IjOzengeb. — Proceed as in the foregoing ; use a table^ 
spoonful of essence of ginger, or 1 oz. of ground ginger to flavor, 
and a few drops of thick wet gamboge to color the paste. Hoar" 
hountUjOZfuges. Ingredients ; 1 oz. of gum dragon soaked in a gill 
of very strong extract of hoarhound, IJ lb. of fine icing sugar. 
Proceed as for the peppermint lozenges. Cinnamon Lozenget are pre- 
pared in the same ma mer as ginger or peppermint lozenges, witfi 
this ditFercnce only; a dessert-spoonful of essence of cinnamon is 
to be used in the flavoring of them, a few dropd of thick, ground, 
wet-burnt umber should bo used with a pinch of carmine to gfire 
the paste the tinge of cinnamon color. Clove Lozenges. The samo 
fts peppennint lozenges, using essence of cloves for flavoring, and 
burnt unil)or to color tlic pas'e. Orange Lozenges. Ingredients : 1 
oz. prepared gum, Ij lb. sugar, 2 oz. of orange-sugar, the gum to be 
soaked in 2 oz. cf orange flower water. Proceed as for peppennint 
Idzenges. Lemon Lozenges. Ingredients; 1 oz. prepared gum, 1| 
lb. of icing sugar, 2 oz. of lemon sugar, and a few drops of acetic 
acid. CoWsJoot Lozenges. Ingredients ; I oz. of gum dragon soaked 
in 2 oz. of orange flower water, \\ lb. of fine icing sugar, and J ozof 
essence of colt's foot. Proceed as for peppermint lozenges. 
Cayenne and Catechu Lozenges. Ingredients ; I oz. of gum dragon 
soaked in 2 oz. of water, 2 lbs. iiue icing sugar, | oz. essence of 
cayenne, audi oz. of prepared catechu. Proceed as for peppermint 
lozenges. 

Gdm PASTaLES, OR JujuBES. — ^Ingredients ; 1 lb. of picked guis 
arable, 14 oz. ot the finest sugar pounded and sifted. \ gill of 
double orange flower water, and I pt. tepid water to soak the gum 
in, which is afterwards to be stramed off clean. Put the soaked 
and strained gum into a sugar boiler with the sugar, and use a 
clean spoon to stir it over a very moderate fire, while it boils and 
reduces to the small pearl degree; then add the orange flower 
water, stir all together on the fire, remove the preparation from the 
stove, skim off the froth, and use the mixture to cast the jujubes in 
levelled layers of starch powder contained in a flat box. 

Spanish Licorice Jujubes. — Ingredients : 1 lb, picked gum 
Arabic, 14 oz. of suga-, and 2 oz. of Spanish licorice dissolved 
in a gill of hot water, and afterwards strained clean. First 
prepare the gum and boil it with the sugar as directed in the 
preceding article, and when reduced by boiling to the small 
pearl degree, incorporate the prepared Spanish licorice with it, 
remove the scum from the surface, and finish the jujubes in the 
manner indicated above. Raspberry Jujubes. Ingredients : 1 lb. 
picked gum arabic soaked in a pint of hot water and afterwards 
strained, 14 oz. of sugar, 1 gill of filtered raspberry juice, and 
a few drops of cochineal. Proceed as directed in the foregoing 
case, adding the raspberry and coloring last. Black Currant 
Jujubes. Proceed in all respects as indicated for raspberr*^ 






u 



,M 



it 



0m 






94 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS, 



j-.ijubea, omitting tho cochineal, black currant juice being used. 
Jied Currant Jvjubes. The same as black currant jujubes, 
red currant juice bfting used and a few drops of cochiiHal. 
Ordinary Jtijuhes. Ingredients : 1 lb, gum arable soaJced iu i 
pt. of liot -water and afterwards strained, 14 oz. sugar, ^ oz. essence 
of roses, and a few drops of prepared cochineal. Let the mixture 
be prej)ared as for other jujubes, but instead of casting thoni in 
impressions made in starch-powder, wlicn the preparation is 
ready, pour it into a very clean sraootii tinned baking sheet tp the 
depth of a quarter of an inch, and set it to dry in the scieeD, 
or hot closet (moderate heat) ; when sufficiently dried, so that on 
])ressing the surface it proves somewhat elastic to tlie toucli, 
remove it from the heat, and allow it to become cold ; the sheet 
of jujube may then be easily detached, and is lo be cut up 
with scissors in the shape of diamonds. 

Stick Apple Sugar. — Boil the sugar to caramel, flavor with 
a\)]}\c juice together with tartaric or otlier acid, pour it (m a 
marble slab, draw it into sticks, cut them of equal leuglli, tlien 
roll them on the slab till they are perfectly cold ; ^vhen finished, 
wrap them in tiisue-paper and put them in fancy envelopes. 

Currant and Raspberry Paste Drops,— Ins^redients : 1 lb. 
of pulp (the currants and raspberries in equal j>ro{)ortion8 boiled, 
and afterwards rubbed through a sieve), 1 lb. of sifted sugar. 
Stir both togetlier in a copper sugar-boiler or preserving pan 
over a brisk fire, until the paste becomes sufficiently reduced to 
show the bottom of the preserving pan as you draw the sjjoon 
across it; then jiroceed to lay out the drops about the size of a 
florin, using a spouted sugar boiler for the -purpose. Tlie dro[)3 
should then be placed in the screen to dry, at a low heat for an 
hour or so. When the drops are dry, use a thin knife to remove 
them froir. Lh' ^n sheet on which you laid them out, and put them 
away between sheets of paper in closed boxes, in a dry jjlace, 
iJamaon Faste Drops. Ingredients : 1 lb. of damson thick pulp, 
1 lb. bruised sugar. Stir the pulp and sugar on the fire until 
reduced to a thick paste, then proceed to lay out the drops 
on square sheets of polisiied tin ; dry them in the screen (moderate 
heat), and remove Ihem in the manner aforesaid. These drops 
may be prepared with all kinds of plums and also with gooseberries. 
Pear Paste JJrops. Use 1 lb. pear pulp (made by peeling the i)eai'j5j. 
and boiling them to a pulp with ^ pt. of cider or perry, and 
rubbing this through a coarse sieve), 1 lb, of bruised sugar. 
Proceed as for damson paste. Apple Paste JJrops. Use 1 lb. 
of apple pulp (made b}r peeling, slicing and boiling the apples with 
i pt. ciciCr), 1 lb. of bruised sugar. Proceed as in the foregoing cases, 
adding a few drops of cochineal to half of the paste for the sake- 
of variety. Pine Ajyple Paste Drops. Use 1 lb. of pine apple pulp 
(made by first peeling, and then grating the pine-apple on a dish, 
using a clean coarse tin grater for the purpose), 1 lb. of bruised 
sugar. Proceed as in tlie former cases. 

Vases, Baskets, Fioures, Animals, &c., i.v Ghained Suoar.— 
The sugar being boiled to the ball degree, add a few drojis uf 
acetic acid, and work the sugar With the buck part of the bowl 
of a silver tablespoon up against the side of the sugar boiler, 



GROCERS AND CONFECTIONERS' RECEIPTS. 95 

fetching up the whole in tnrna, so that tverj portion may acquire 
aaopalized or whitish color. As soon aa the sugar had been worthed 
up to this state, which constUutes " graining," pour it imme> 
diately into the ready prepared mould ; and when it has become 
perfectly set firm in the centre, you may turn the vase, basket, 
animal, or whatever the object may be, out of its mould, and place 
it in the screen or hot closet to dry, at a very moderate heat. Af- 
terwards they may be painted in colors to imitate nature. 

EvERTON Taffbk. — TO make this favorite and wholesome candy, 
take ) J pounds of moist sugar, 3 ounces of butter, a teacup and a 
halt of water, and one lemon. Boil the sugar, butter, water, and 
biilf the rind ot the lemon together ; and, when done, — which will 
be known by dropping into cold water, when it should be quite 
(.j.jgp^_let it stand aside till the boiling has ceased, and then stir 
in tiie juice of the lemon. Butter a disn, and pour it in about a 
quarter of an Inch in thickness. The fire must be quick, and the 
taffee stirred all the time. 

(Iandy FnciT.— Take one pound of the best loaf sugar; dip each 
lump into a bowl of water, and put the sugar into your pteservmg 
kettle. Boil it down, and skim ii until perfectly clear, and in a 
candying state. When sufficiently boiled, have ready the fruits 
you wish to preserve. Large white grapes, oranges separated into 
small pieces, or preserved fruits, taken out of their syrup and 
dried, are very nice. Dip the fmlts into the prepared sugar while 
it is hot; put them in a cold place ; they will soon become hard. 

Jellies witiiodt Fucit.— To 1 pint of water put i oz. alum; 
boil a minute or two ; then add 4 lbs. white sugar ; continue the 
boiling a little; strain wlilo hot; aid, when cold, put in half a 
twenty-five cent bottle of extract of vanilla, strawberry, lemon, 
or any o'her flavor you desire for jelly. 

Prize Honkv. — Good common sugar, 5 lbs. ; '^ater, 2 lbs. ; bring 
gradually to a boil, skimming when cool : add I lb. bees' honey and 
4 drops essence of peppermint. If you aesire a better article, use 
while sugar, and i lb. less water, i Ib.more honey. 

ANOTHKR.—Coflee sugar, 10 lbs. ; water, 3-lbB. ; cream tartar, 2 
oz. ; strong vinegar, 2 tablespoons ; white of an egg well beaten ; 
bees' honey, J lb. ; Lubin's extract of honeysuckle, 10 drops. Put 
( n the sugar and water in a suitable kettle on the fire ; when luke- 
warm, stir in the cream tartar and vinegar ; add the egg ; when 
the sugar is nearly melted put in the honey, and stir till it comes 
to u boil ; take it off, let it stand a few minutes ; strain, then add 
the extract of honeysuckle last ; stand over night, and it is ready 
for use. 

Another.— Common sugar, 4 lbs. ; water, 1 pt. ; let them come 
to a boil, and skim. Then add pulverized alum, i oz. ; remove 
from the fire, and stir in cream of tartar, i oz., and water, or 
extract of rose, 1 tablespoonful, and it is fit for use. 

To Keep Frdits Fresh. — Rosin, 2 lbs. ; tallow, 2 oz. ; bees' -wax, 
2 oz. Melt slowly over the fire in an iron pot, but don't boil. 
Take the fruit separately, and rub it over with pulverized chalk or 
whiting (to prevent the coating from adhering to the fruit), then 
dip it into the solution once, and hold it up a moment to sot the 
coating, then pack away carefully in barrels, boxes, or ou shelves, 



'i 



A--ii 



m 



■''I'i! 

; ! 


'4 


1 Iffa 



96 



LEATHER WORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



in a cool place. Unequalled for preserving apples, pears, lemons, 
oranges, &c. 

Acid Drops.— Pound and sift into a clean pan 8 ozs. of double 
reiined sugar, add slowly as much water as will render the sugar 
sufficiently moist not to stick to the stirring spoon, place the pan 
on a small stove or 'jlow fire, and stir till it nearly boils, remove 
from the fire and stir in i oz. tartaric acid. Place it on the fire for 
half a minute, then dip out small quantities from the pan, and let 
it fall in small drops on a clean tin plate ; remove the drops in 2 
hours with a knife. Ready for sale in 24 hours. 



TANNERS, CURRIERS, BOOT, SHOE AND 
HARNESS MAKERS, MARBLW WORKERS, &c. 



f ! 



Best Color for Boot, Shoe, and Harness Edge. — Alcohol, 1 
pint; tincture of iron, IJ oz. ; extract logwood, 1 oz. ; pulverized 
nutgalls, 1 cz. ; soft water, J pint ; sweet oil, | oz. ; put this last 
into the alcohol before adding the water. Nothing oan exceed the 
beautiful finish imparted to the leather by this preparation. The 
only objection is the cost. 

C/BEAP Color for the Edge. — Soft water, 1 gallon ; extract log- 
wood, 1 oz. ; boil till the extract '.r-, dissolved ; remove from the iirc, 
add copperas, 2 oz., bichromate of potash aud gum arable, of eucli 

1 oz. ; all to be pulverized. 

Sdperior Edge Blacking. — Soft water, 5 gallons ; bring to n 
boil, and add 8 oz. logwood extract, pulverized ; boil li minutes, 
remove ;rom the tire, and stir in 2\ oz. gum arable, 1 oz. bichro- 
mate of potash, and 80 grains prussiate of potash. 

For a small quantity of this, use water, 2 quarts ; extract of log- 
wood, I oz. ; gum arable, 96 grains ; bicliromate of potash, 48 
grains ; prussiate of potash, 8 grains. Boil the extract in the water 

2 minutes ; remove from the fire aud stir in the others, and it ia 
ready for use. 

For tunners' surface blacking, which is not required to take on a 
high polish, the gum arable may be omiitcd. 

Sizing FOR Boots Ai«D Shoes in Treeing Out.— Water, 1 quart; dis- 
solve in it, by heat, isinglass, 1 oz. ; adding more water to replace 
glass, by evaporation ; when dissolved, add starch, 6 oz. ; extract of 
logwood, bees'-wax, and tallow, of each, 2 oz. Rub the starch up first 
by pouring on sufficient boiling water for that i)urpose. It makes 
boots and shoes soft and pliable, and gives a splendid appearance 
to old stcck on the shelves. 

Black Varnish .""or the Edge. — Take 98 per cent, alcohol, 1 pint; 
shellac, 3 oz. ; rosin, 2 oz. ; pine turpentine, 1 oz. ; lampblack, i 
oz. ; mix ; and when the gums are all cut, it is ready for use. Tliis 

E reparation makes a most splendid appearance when appliedj to 
oot, shoe, or harness edge^ and is equally ajjplicable to cloth or 
wood, where aglossia required after being painted. 



LBATHEK WORifEBS, kC, RECEIPTS. 



n 



Be8T HARiTOiSS Varnish Extant.— Alcohol, 1 gallon; white 
turpentine, 1 J lbs. ; gum shellac, li lbs. ; Venice turpeniirse, 1 gill. 
Let them stand by the stove till the gums are dissolved, then add 
pweet oil, 1 gill ; and color if you wish it with laupblack, 2 os. 
This will not crack like the old varnish. 

Harness oil. — Neat's-foot oil, 1 gal., lampblack, 4 oz. Mix well. 

Brilliant French Varnish for Leather. — Spirit of wine, ^ pint ; 



d 



vinegar, 5 pints ; gum Senegal in powder, i lb. ; loaf sugar, 6 oz. 
powdered galls, 2 oz. ; green copperas, 4 oz. Dissolve the gum an 
sugar in the water ; strain, and put on a slow fire, but don't boil ; 
now put in the galls, copperas, and the alcohol ; stir well for five 
minutes ; set off ; and when nearly cool, strain through flannel, and 
bottle for Use. It is applied with a pencil brush. Most superior. 

Liquid Japan for Leather. — Molasses, 8 lbs. ; lampblack. 1 lb. j 
sweet oil, 1 lb. ; gum arable, i lb. ; isinglass, 1 lb. Mix well in 
32 lbs. water ; apply heat ; when cool, add 1 quart alcohol ; an ox's 
gall will improve it. 

Waterproof OiI-Blackino, Oamphene, 1 pint ; add all the 
India-rubber it will dissolve ; currier's oil, 1 pint ; tallow, 7 lbs. ; 
lampblack, 2 oz. Mix thoroughly by heat. 

Shoemakers' Heel Balls. — Bees'-wax, 8 oz. ; tallow, 1 oz, ; melt, 
and add powdertd gum arable, 1 oz., and lampblack to color. 

Cement for Leather or Rurber Soles and Leather Beltiko. — 
Gutta percha, 1 lb. ; India-rubber, 4 oz. ; pitch, 2 oz. ; shellac, 1 oz. ; 
oil, 2 oz. ; melt, and use hot. 

Oil Paste Blacking. — Ivory black, 4 lbs. ; molasses, 3 lbs. ; sweet 
oil, 1 lb. ; oil vitriol, 3 lbs. ; mix, and put in tins. 

To Dye Leather Blub, Red, or Purple.- For red, steep it in 
alum water, then put it in a warm decoction of Brazil wood ; bltu, 
steep it in an indigo vat ; purple, &teep the skins in alum water, 
then put it in a warm decoction of logwood. 

Gold Varnish. — Turmeric, 1 dram; gamboge, 1 dram; turpen- 
tine, 2 pints ; shellac, 6 oz. ; sandarach, 6 oz. ; dragon's blood, 8 
drams; thin mastic varnish, 8 oz. ; digest with occasional agitation 
for fourteen days ; the u 2?+ aside to fine, and pour off the clear. 

Grain Black for Harness Leather. — First stain in tallow ; then 
take spirits tui-pentine, 1 pint ; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; 
gum shellac, i oz. ; thick paste, reduced thin, 2 quarts 
This will finish 12 sides. 

Stains for Wood and Leather. — Red. — Brazil 
alum, 4 parts ; water, 8.5 parts. Boil. 

Blue. — Logwood, 7 parts ; blue vitriol, 1 part ; 
Boil. 

Black.— Logwood, 9 parts ; sulphate of iron, I part ; water, 26 
parts. Boil. 

Gheen. — Verdigris. 1 part ; vinegar, 3 parts. Dissolve. 

T'!iiLLow.— French berries, 7 parts ; water, 10 parts ; alum, I part. 
Boil. 

Purple. — Logwood, 11 parts ; alum, 3 parts ; water, 29 parts. 
Boil. 

Dbi" Skinh. — Tanninq and Buffing for Glov^- — For each skin, 
take a buckcl of water, and put into it one qt. of lime ; let the skin 
or skins lie in from 3 te 4 days ; then rinse ia clean water, hair, and 

Q 



sodaj 1 oz. ; 
Mix well. 



wood, 11 parts: 
water, 22 parts. 



UP* 



n\ 



u 






98 



LEATHER WORKERS, &J., RECEIPTS. 



\ % 



grain ; then soak them in cold water to get ont the glue ; now 3cour 
or pjund in good eoap-suda for half an hour; aftei* which take 
wliue vitriol, alum, and salt, 1 tablespoon of each to a skin; tliese 
will be dissolved in sufficient water to cover the skin, and remain in 
it for 24 hours ; wring out as dry as convenient, and spread on with 
a brush J pt. of currier's oil, and hang in the sun about 2 daya ; after 
which you will scour out the oil with soap-suds, and hangoutagain 
until perfectly dry; then pull and work them until they are soft; 
and ir a reasonable time does not make them soft, scour out in suds 
again as before, until complete. The oil may be paved by pouring 
or taking it from the top of the suds, if left standing a short time. 
The buff color is given by spreading yellow ochre evenly over the 
surface of the skin, when finished, rubbing it in well with a brush. 

Tanning with Acid.— After having removed the hair, scouring, 
soaking, and pounding in the suds, &c., as in tlie last recipe, in 
place of the white vitriol, alum, and salt, as there mentioned, take 
oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid), and water, equal p(irts of each, and 
thorougldy wet the flesh-side of ihe skin with it, by means of a 
sponge or cloth upon a stick ; then folding up the skin, letting it 
lie for 20 minutes only, having ready a solution of sal-soda and 
water, say 1 lb. to a bucket of water, and soak tlie skia or skins in 
that for t'Vd hours, when ;;'ou will wash in clean water, and applv a 
little dry salt, letting lie in the salt over night, or that lengtifof 
time ; then remove tlie flesh with a blunt knife, or, if doing busi- 
ness on a large scale, by means of the regular beam and flesh-knife; 
when dry, or nearly so, soften by pulling and rubbing with the 
hands, and also with a piece of pumice-stone. This, of course, ii 
the quickest way of tanning, and by only wetting the skins with 
the acid, and soaking out in 20 minutes, they are not rotted. 

ANOTiiKtt MfcTHOD.— Oil of vitriol, i oz. ; salt, 1 teacup ; milk 

BufHcient to handsomely cover the skin, not exceeding 3 qts. ; warm 

the milk, then add the salt and vitriol; stir the sl£iu m the liquid 

40 minutes, keeping it warm ; then dry. and work it as directed in 

the above 

LiQCTD Red.— Channellers will find that no better or richer color 
for their purposes can be got tlian tlie red ink doscribed under the 
Grocers' Department, diluted to the reqiiirjd shade. For color for 
the bottoms of shoes use tincture of red sanders. 

BiiiDLE Stain.— Skimmed milk, 1 pt. ; spirits of salts, i oz.; spts. 
of red laven'ier, J oz. ; eum arabic, I oz. ; and the juice of 2 lemons; 
mix well together, and cork for use ; apply with a sponge; when 
dry, polish with a brush or apiece of flannel. If wished paler, put 
in less red lavender. 

New Tanning Composition —For harness leather, 4 lbs. catechu, 
3 pts. commor. iye, 3 oz. of alum. For wax leather, {sp'.lt leather) 
3 lbs. catechu, 3 pts. common lye, 3 oz. alum. For calf skins, 2 lbs. 
ciitechu, 1 pt. lye, 2 oz. alum. For sheepskins, 1 lb. catechu, 1 pt. 
lye, 1 oz. alum. The catechu by itself will make the leatiier hard 
and brittle, the lye will soften it ; the alum, being only used for color- 
ing, can be dispensed with, orolhor matter used in its place. The 
mixture is in every case boiled, and the leather is then immersed 
in "it long enough to be tlioroughly tanned, for which purpose the 
b?»-ne8« le^thw ihould be steeped from 18 to 20 days, if ax leather 



from 
2 to 4 
P)i( 
TO 30 
comm 
sutfici 
limed, 
it will 
time \ 
ing til 
when 



LEATHER WORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



99 



from 12 to 14 days, calf-skin from 7 to 9 days, and sheep-skin from 
2 to 4 days. 

PiiocEss OF Tanning Oalf, Kip, and Harness Lbathbr in from 6 
TO 30 Days. — For a 12-Ib. caU-3lcin, take 3 lbs. of terra japonica, 
common salt, 2 lbs. : alum, 1 lb. ; put tbem into a copper kettle with 
sufficient water tO dissolve the whole by boiling. The skin will be 
limed, haired, and treated every way as for the old process, when 
it wilibeputinto a vessel with sufficient water to cover it, at which 
time vou will put in 1 pint of the composition, stirring it well, add- 
ing the same amount each night aad morning for three days, 
wlien you will add the whole, handling 2 or 3 times daily all the 
time tanning ; you can continue to use the tanning liquid by add- 
ing half the quantity each time, by keeping these proportion* for 
any amount. If you desire to give a bark color to the leather, you 
will put in 1 lb. of Sicily sumac; kip skins will require about 20 
days, light bouse hides for harness 30 days, calf-skins from 6 to 10 
days at most. 

To Tan Raw Hide. — When taken from the animal, spread it flesh 
side up ; then put 2 parts of salt, 2 parts of saltpetre and alum com- 
bined, make it fine, sprinkle it evenly over the surface, roll it up, let 
it alone a few di»y: till dissolved ; then take off what flesh remains, 
and nail the skin to the side of a barn in the sun, stretch tight, to 
make it soft like harness leather, put neat's-foot oil on it, fasten it 
up in the sun again; then rub out all the oil you can with a wedge- 
shajied stick, and it is tanned with the hair on. 

French Finish for Leapiier. — Take a common wooden pailfnl of 
scraps (the legs and i)atei of calf-skins are best), and put a handful 
each of salt and alum upon thera, and let them stand three days : 
then boil them until they get a thick paste ; in using, you will 
warm it, and in the first application put a little tallow with it, and 
for a second time a little soft soap, and use it in the regular way 
of finishing, and your leather will bs soft and pliable, like French 
leather. • 

French PatSnt Leather. — Work into the skin with appropriate 
tools 3 or 4 successive coatings of diying varnish, made by boiling 
liusee'i oil with white lead and li^'iarge, in the proporiion of one 
pound of each of the latter to one gallon of the former, and adding 
a portion of chalk or ochre, each coating being thoroughly dried 
before tlie applic ition of the rest. Ivory black is then substituted 
for the clialk or ochre, the varnish thinned with spirits ef turpen- 
tine, aud five additional applications made in the same manner as 
before, except that it is put on thin and not worked in. The leath- 
er is rubbed down with pumice-stone, in powder, and then placed 
in a room at 90 degrees, out of the way of dust. The last vamiah 
i.^ prepared by boilmg ^ lb. of asphalvum with 10 lb}, of the drying 
oil us< d in ilie first stage of the process, and then stirring in 5 lbs. 
copal varnish and 10 lbs. of turpentine. It must have 1 month's 
age before using it. 

Chuai' Tann'ing without Babk or Mineral Agtrinoents. — The 
astringent liquor is composed of water, 17 gals. ; Aleii[.o galls, 5 
Ih. ; Bengal catccliu, I5 oz. and 5 lbs. of tormontil, or se[)tfoil* 
root. Povvder tlie ingredientv-?, and boil in the water I hour; 
when oo*i, pat in the skint (which must bo pri^ared hf being 








100 



LEATHER WORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



w 



plunged into a preparation of bran and water for 2 da5'9 pre- 
viously) ; handle them frequently during the first 3 days, let them 
alone the next 3 days, then handle three or four times in one day ; 
let them lie undisturbed for 25 days more, when the process will 
be complete. 

Canadian Pboobss. — The Canadians make four liquors in using 
tbeiaponica. 

The FIRST liquor is made by dissolving, for 20 sides of upper, 
15 lbs. of terra japonica in sufficient water to cover the upper, 
bei ig tanned. The second liquor contains the same amount of 
japonica, and 8 lbs. of saltpetre also. The thibd contains 20 lbs. 
of japonica, and ^ lbs. of alum. The fourth liquor contains 
only 15 lbs of japonica, and 1^ lbs of sulphuric acid ; and the 
leather remains 4 days in each liquor for upper ; and for sole the 
quantities and time are both doubled. They count 50 calf-skias ia 
place of 20 sides of upper, but 1,'tthera lie in each liquor only 3 days. 

Fifty Dollar Recipb for Tanninq Fcb and other Skins.— 
Remove the legs and useless parts, soak the skin sol't, and then 
remove the fleshy substances, and soak it in warm water 1 hour. 
Now take for each skin borax, saltpetre, and Glauber-sult,,of each 
i oz., and dissolve or wet with soft water sufficient to allow it to 
be spread on the flesh side of the skm. Put it on with a brush 
thickest in the centre or thickest part of the skm, and double the 
skin together, flesh side in ; keeping it in a cool place for 24 hour?, 
not allowing it to freeze. Then wash the skin clean, and take 
Hal-soda, 1 oz., borax, i oz. ; refined soap, 2 oz. ; melt them slowly 
together, being careful not to allow them to boil, and apply the 
mixture to the flesh side as at first. Boil up again, and keep in a 
warm place for 24 hours ; then wash the skin clean again, as 
above, and have saleratus, 2 oz., dissolved m hot rain water suffi« 
cieat to well saturate the skin ; take alum, 4 oz. ; salt, 8 oz. ; 
and dissolve also in hot rain water ; when sufficiently cool to allow 
the handling of it without scalding, put in the skin for 12 hours ; 
then wring out the water and hang up for 12 hoars more to dry. 
Repeat this last soaking and drying 2 or 3 times, according to the 
desired softness of the skin when finished. Lastly finish, by 
pulling and working, and finally by rubbing with a piece of 
pumice-stone and fine sand-paper. This works like a charm on 
sheep-skins, fur skins, dog, v/olf, bear-skins, &c. 

French Polish or Dressinq for LsiTHER.—Mix 2 pts. best 
vinegar with 1 pt. soft water ; stir into it i lb. glue, broken up, 
* lb. logwood-chips, \ oz. of finely powdered indigo, \ oz. of the 
best soft soap, J oz. of isinglass ; put the mixture over the fire, a i 
let it boil ten minutes or more ; then strain, bottle, and cork. 
When cold, it is fit for use. Apply with a sponge. 

CuRRiiiRS' Size.— Take of sizing, 1 qt. ; soft soap, 1 gill ; str.ff- 
ing, 1 gill; sweet milk, ^ pt. ; boil the sizing m water to a proper 
consistence, strain, and add the other ingredients ; and wnen 
thoroughly mixed, it is ready for use. 

Curriers' Paste.— First (^ont.—Tuke of water, 2 qts. ; flour, i 
pint ; Castile soap, I oz. ; make into paste. Second Coat. — Take 
of first paste, ^ pt. ; gum tragacanth, 1 gi.l ; water, 1 pt. ; mix all 
together. This will finish 18 sides of upper. 



LEATHER WORKERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



101 



CunniEiis' Skirting,— This is for finishing skirting and the flesh 
of liiuiio:-3 leailier, in imitalion of oak tanning. Take of chrome 
nl'.uw, .] lb. ; yellow oclire, 1 lb. ; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; aoda, ^ 
\\7. ; |iiiste, 5 qts. ; mix well. This will finish twelve sides. 

Skiiitino — Fcr tliu grain to imitate oak tan. Take of chrom? 
c'liuw, 2 lb. ; yelloTm, ^htv, ^ lb. ; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; sodia, 1 
oz, ; pustf, 2 qfg. j t-i,..ita of turpentine, 1 pt. ; mix well. Tnia 
will finish twelve sidee. 

Dyes for Lea.ther.— /?/m«. — For each skin, take 1 oz. of indigo, 
put it into boiling water, and let it stand one night ; then warm 
It a little, and with a brush smear the skin twice over, and finish 
the same as the red. Red. — After the skin has been properly 
jirepiired with sheep, pigs' dung, &c., then taKe strong alum water, 
iiiid si)onge over your skin ; when dry, boil a strong gall liquor (\t 
ciuinot be too strong) ; then boil a strong Brazil wood liquor (the 
stronger the better); take a sponge, dip it into your liquor, and 
.sponge it over your skin; repeat this till it come3 to a full red. To 
liiiish ycur skin, take the white of eggs, and a little gum dragon, 
mix tlie two together m half a gill of water, sponge over your skin, 
imd, when dry, polish off. Yellow. — 1. Infuse quercitron bark in 
vinefTiir, iu Avhich put a little alum, and brush over your skins with 
tlie infusion ; finish the same as the red. 2. Take 1 pt. of 
whisky; 4 oz. turmeric; mix them well together; when settled, 
sponge your skias over, and finish as above. Black. — Put your 
skin on a clean board, sponge it over with gall and sumach liquors, 
strong; then take a strong logwood liquor, sponge it over three 
or four times ; then take a little copperas, mix it in the logwood 
liquor; s]ioiige it over your skin, and finish it same as the rcd^ 
r iivjde .—Y'wsX sponge with the alum liquor strong, then with log- 
wood liquor strong; or mix them both, and boil them, and sponge 
with th'.' liquor ; finish the same as the red. The pleasing hues of 
yellow, brown, or tan color, are readily imparted to, leather by the 
following simple process : steep saffron in boiling water for a 
nunib'r of hour.*!, wet a sponge or soft brush in the liquor, and 
with it smear the leather. The quantity of saffron, as well as of 
water, will of course depend on how much dye may, be wanted, 
and their relative proportions to the depth of color roquired. 

To Maiiblk Books or Papkr. — Marbling of books or paper is 
performed thus • Dissolve 4 ounces of gum arable in 2 quarts of fair 
water ; then provide several colors mixed with water in pots or 
shells, and with pencils peculiar to each color ; sprinkle them by 
way of intermixture upon the gum water, which must be put into 
a trough, or some broad vessel; then, with a stick, curl Uiem, or 
draw them out in streaks to as much variety as may be done. 
H wing done this, hold your book or books close together, and oply 
dip the edges in, on the top of the water and colors, very lightly ; 
wiiich done, take them off, and the plain impression of the colors 
in mixture will be upon the leaves , doing as .veil the ends as the 
front of the books in like manner, and afterwards glazing the 
colors. 

Bookbinders' Varnish. — Shellac, 8 parts ; gum benzoine, 3 
parts ; gum mastic, 2 parts ^-'^'se, and digest in alcohol, 48 parts ; 
oil of lavender, i part. Or, digest shellac, 4 parts ; gum mastic, 



|i>7(l 



:& 



102 



LEATHER TTORKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



ii 11 



2 parts ; gum dammer and white turpentine, of each, 1 part ; with 
alcohol (95 per cent.), 28 parts. 

Red Sprinkle fob Bookbinuebs' Use. — Brazil wood (ground), 4 
parts; alum, 1 part; vinegar, 4 parts; vater, 4 parts. Uoil until 
reduced to 7 parts, then add a quantity of loaf sugar and gum ; 
bottle for use, JJlue. — Strong sulphuric acid^ 8 oz, ; Spanish in- 
digo, powdered,- 2 oz. ; mix in a bottle that will hold a quart, and 
f)lace it in a warm bath to promote solution. Fgr use, dilute a 
ittle to the required color in a tea-cop. Jilack. — No better black 
can be procured than that made by the receipt for edge black- 
ing, in this work, which see. Orange color. -Ground Brazil wood, 
16 parts; annotto, 4 part? ; alum, sugar, and gum arable, each 1 
part; water, 70 parts, boil, strain, and bottle. /^Mrp/*.— Logwood 
chips, 4 parts ; powdered alum, 1 part; soft water, 24 parts ; boil 
until reduced to 16 parts, aud botlle for use. Green. — French 
berries, 1 part ; soft water, 8 parts. Boil, and add a little pow- 
dered alum ; then bring it to the required shade of green, by add- 
ing liquid blue. Brown. — Logwood chips, 1 part ; annotto, 1 part ; 
boil in water, 6 parts ; if too light, add a piece of copperas the size 
of a pea. 

Trbe-Mabble. — A marble in the form of trees may be done by 
bending the boards a little on- the centre, using the same method 
as the common marble, liaving tlie covers previously prepared. The 
end of a candle may be rubbed on different parts of the board to 
form knots. Rice-Marble. — Color the covci with spirits of wine and 
turmeric, then place on rice in a regular manner, throw on a very 
fine sprinkle of copperas water till the cover is nearly black, and 
let it remain till dry. The cover may be spotted with the red liquid 
or potash-water, very freely, before the rice is thrown off the 
boards. Spotted Marble for Books, etc. — After the fore-edge of the 
book is cut, let it remain in the press, and throw on linseeds in a 
regular manner, sprinkle the edge with any dark color till the 
paper is covered, them shake off the seeds. Various colors may be 
used; the edge ma}' be colored with yellow or red before throwing 
on the seeds, and sprinkling with blue. The seeds will make a fine 
fancy edge when placed very thick on different parts, with a fow 
slightly thrown on the spaces between. Jap in Colorinj/or Leather, 
Book-covers, etc. — After the boot is covered and dry, color the 
cover with potash-water mixed with a little paste : give 2 good 
coats of Brazil wash, and glaze it ; put the book between the hands, 
allowing the boards to slope a little ; dash on copperas-water, the i 
with a sponge full of red liquid press out on the back and on diffe- 
rent parts large drops, which will run down each board and make 
a file shaded red ; when the cover is dry, wash it over 2 or three 
times with Brazil wash to give it a brighter color. {See the various 
dyes for leather.) 

Gold Sprinkle fob Books. — Put in a marble mortar ^ oz. pure 
honey and one book of gold leaf, rub them well together until they 
are very fine, add ^ pint clear water, and mix well together when 
the water clears, pour it off, and put in more till the honey i^ all 
extracted, and nothing remains but the gold; mix one grain of 
M>rrosite sublimate in a teaspoonful of spirits of wine, and when 
oiSSOlVtid, put th6 sam^, together with a little gum water, to the 



lEATHER WOEKERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



103 



gold, and bottlo for use. The edges of the book may be sprinkled 
or colored verv dark, with green, blue, or purple, and lastly 
with tiiu guld liiiuiit in small or largo spots, very reg;ilar, 
shaking the bottls boforo using, liuniidli tlii» odg.is wlicn dry, 
:md cover theui with paper to prevent the du^t falling thereon. 
This sprinkle will have a mo;?t beautiful appearauco on extra 
work. 

To Gild the Edoes op Books. — Armenian bole, 4 parts, sugar can- 
dy, 1 part, white of egg tomix. Apply thiscumpositioa to the edge 
of the leaves, previously firr^iy screv ed in the cutting-press ; when 
nearly dry, smooth the surf ice with the burnisher ; then take a 
damp sponge and pass over it, and with a piece of cotton-wool, take 
the leaf from the cushion and apply it to the work; when quite 
dry, burnish, observing to place a piece of silver or India paper be- 
tween the gold and the agate. 

CuiNEsyi: Edge for Books. — Color the edge with light liquid blue 
nnd dry; then take a sponge charged witli vermilion, and dab on 
spots iiccording to fancy ; next throw on rice, and liuish the edge 
with dark liquid blue. 

Dyes fou Feathers. — Green Dye. — Take of verdigris and verdi- 
ler, of eacli, 1 oz. ; gum-water, 1 ])t. ; mix them well, and dip the 
bristles, fuf; or feathers, they having been first soaked in hot water, 
into tlie said mixture. Blue. — Take of Indigo and risse, each, 
I oz. ; and a ])iece of alum the size of a hazel nut; put them into 
gum-water, and dip the materials into it hot ; hang them up to dry, 
and clap them well that they may open ; and, by changing the co- 
lors, tlie aforesaid materials mav be in this manner dyed of any 
color. For purple, use lake and indigo ; for carnation, vermilion 
and smalt. lied. — Take an ounce of Brazil wood in powder ; ^ oz. 
of alum ; vermilion, \ oz. ; and a pint of vinegar ; boil them up to 
a moderate thickness, and dip the fur or feathers, they having 
been lirst soaked in hot water, into the said mixture. For black, 
use the same as for cloth, {t^ee " Receipts for Dyeing. ^^) Fellow.-^ 
Mordant with acetate of alumina, and dip in a bath of turmeric or 
weld. Crimson. — Dip in acetate of alumina morc^ant, than in a 
boiling hot decoction of Brazil wood, and, last of all, pass through 
a bath of cudbear. 

To MAKE Paper into Parchment. — To produce this transforma- 
tion, take unsized paper and T>lungo it into a solution of two parts 
of concentrated sulphuric acid combined with 1 part water; with- 
draw it immediately, and wash it in clean watcr^ and the change 
is complete. It is now fit for writing ; for the acid supplies the 
want of size, and it becomes so strong that a strip 2 or 3 inches 
wide will bear from 60 to 80 lbs. weight, while a like strip of parch- 
ment will boar only about 25 lbs. 

IIoRv IN Imitation of Tortoise-SheMi.— First steam and then 
press the liorn into proper. shapes, and afterwards lay thefollowiujj 
mixture on with a small brush, in imitation of the mottle of tor- 
toise-shell : Take equal parts of quick lime and litharge, and mix 
with strong soap-lees ; let this remain until it is thoroughly dry; 
bru.-;h off, and repeat two or three times if necessary Such parts 
as are required to bo of a reddish brown shouid be covered with a 
mixture of whiting and the stain. 



*f 



§ 






104 



LEATHER WORKERS, kC, REOEIPTS. 



:iiii 



:tr 



Dtks for Ivory, Horn, and Bovk.— Black.— I. Laj" the articles 
for several hours in a strong solution of nitrate of silver, and ex- 
pose to the light, 2. Boil the article for some time in a strained 
aecociion of logwood, and then steep it in a solution of per-sul- 
pbate or acetate of iron. 3. Immerse frequently in ink until of 
sufficient depth of color. Blue. — 1. Immerse for some time in a di- 
lute solution of sulphate of indigo, partly saturated with potash, 
and it will be fully stained. 2. Steep in a strong solution of sul- 
phate of copper. Oreen. — 1. Dip blue-stained articles for a short 
tiiue in nitro-hydrochlorate of tin, and then in a hot decoction of 
fustic. 2. Boil in a solution of verdigris in vinegar until the de- 
sired color 18 obtained. Jied. — 1. Dip the articles first in a tin mor- 
dantj used in dyeing, and then plunge into a hot decoction of 
Brazil wood— i lb. to a gallon of water^r cochineal. 2. Steep m 
red ink till sufficiently stained. Scarlet. — Use lac dye instead of 
the preceding. Violet.— D'n^ in the tin mordant, and then immerse 
m a decoction of logwood, yellow. — Boil the articles in a solu- 
tion of alum, 1 lb. to ^ a gallon, then immerse for half an hour in 
the following mixture : Take ^ lb. of turmeric, and J lb. of pearl- 
ash ; boil in 1 gal. water : when taken from this, the bone must 
be again dippea in the alum solution. 

Etching Fluid for Ivory. — Take dilute sulphuric acid, dilute 
muriatic acid, equal parts : mix. For etching varnish take white 
wax, 2 parts ; tears of mastic, 2 parts : mix. 

To gild Ivory. — Immerse it in a solution of nitro-muriate of 
gold, and then expose it to hydrogen gas while damp. Wash it 
afterwards in clean water. 

To SOFTEN Ivory. — In 3 oz. spirits of nitre and 15 ^z. of spring- 
water, mixed togetlier, put your Ivory to soak ; and in three or 
four days it will obey your fingers. 

To WHITEN Ivory. — Slack some lime in water; put your ivory in 
the water, after being decanted from the grounds^ and boil it till 
it looks quite white. To polish it afterwards, set it in the turner's 
wheel ; and, after having worked, take rushes an^. pumice-stones, 
snbtile powder, with water, and rub it till it looks perfectly smooth. 
Next to that, heat it by turning it against a piece of linen or sheep- 
skin leather: and when hot, rub it over with a little dry whitening 
diluted in oil of olive; then with a little dry whitening alone: 
finally with a piece of soft white rag. When all this is performed 
as directed, the ivory will look very white. 

Another way to BLBAca Ivory.— Take 2 handfuls of lime, slake 
it by sprinkling it with water : then add 3 pts. of water, and stir 
the whole together ; let it settle *e,n minutes, and pour the water 
into a pan for your purpose. Then take your ivory and steep it in 
the lime-water for 24 hours, after which, boil it in a strong alttm- 
water 1 hour, and dry it m the air. 

Additional Dyes for Peatiiers. — Black: immerse for 2 or 3 
days in a bath, at first hot, of lo,!?wood, 8 parts, and copperas or 
acetate of iron, 1 part. Blue: with the indigo vat Brown: by 
using any of the brown dyes tor silk or woollen. Crimson : a 
mordant of alum, followed by a hot bath of Brazil wood, after- 
wards by a weak dve of cudbear. Ptnk or Hoite : with sar-flower 
or lemon juice. Flum : with the red dye, followed by an alka- 



LEATHER WORKERS, AC, PECEiPTS. 



105 



line loath. Red : a mordant of alum, followed by a bath of 
I5iMzil Avcod. Yellow, a mordant of alum, followed by a bath of 
turmeric or weld. 

CoLOKS FOR ARTiFioiAii Flowkrs. — The French employ velvety 
fne cambric, and kid for the petals, ana taffeta for the leaves. 
Very recently thin plates of bleached whalebone have been used 
for some portions of the artificial flowers. Colors and Stains. Blue. 
—Indigo dissolved in oil of vitriol, and the acid partly neutralized 
witli salt of tartar or whiting. Green. — A solution of distilled ver- 
digris. Zj/ac. —Liquid archil. Jied. — Carmine dissolved ia a 
solution of salt of tartar^ or in spirits of hartshorn. Violet. — Liqaid 
arcliil mixed witli a little salt of tartar. Yellow. — Tincture of 
turmeric The colors are generally applied with the fingers. 

To cur AND POLISH Makblk. — The marble saw is a thin plate of 
soft iron, continually supplied, during its sawing motion, with 
water and the sharpest sand. The sawing of moderate pieces is 
performed by hand : that of large slabs is most economically done 
by a proper mill. The first substance used in the polishing pro- 
cess 13 the sharpest sand, which must be worked with till the 
surface becomes perfectly flat. Then a second and even a third 
sand, of increasing fineness, is to be applied. The next substance 
is emery, of progressive degrees of fineness ; after which, tripoli is 
employed ; and the last polish is given with tin putty. The body 
with which the sand is rubbed upon the marble is usually a plate 
of iron ; but, for the subsequent process, a plate of lead is used, 
with fine sand and emery. Tlie polishing-rubbers are coarse linen 
cloths, or bagging, wedged tight mto an iron planing tool. In every 
step or the operation,a constant trickling supply of water is required. 

Alabaster, Marble, or Stone ma^ be stained of a yellow, red, 
green, blue, purple, black, or any ot the compound colors, by the 
staius used for wood. 

Powerful Cement for Broken Mabblb.— Take gum arabic, 1 lb.; 
make iuto a thick mucilage : add to it powdered plaster of Paris. 
1^ lb. ; sifted quick lime, 5 oz. ; mix well ; heat the marble, and 
apply the mixture. 

bEVEN Colors for Staining Marble.— It is necessary to heat the 
marble hotj but not so hot as to injure it, the proper heat being 
that at which the colors nearly boil. Blue; alkaline indigo dye, 
or turnsole with alkali. Bed; dragon's blood in spirits of wine. 
Yellow ; gamboge in spirits of wine. Gold Colo, ; sal-ammouiac, 
sulphate of zinc, and verdigris, equal parts. GrecA; sap green, in 
spirits of potash. Brown; tincture of logwood. Crimson; alka- 
net root in turpentine. Marble may be veined according to taste. 
To staiR marble well is a difficult operation. 

Perpetual Ink for Tombstones, etc. — Pitch, 11 lbs. :lamphlack| 
1 lb. ; turpentine sufficient; mix with heat. 

To Clean Old Marble. — Take a bullock's gall, 1 gill soap lees, 
half a gill of turpentine ; make into a paste with pipeclay, apply it 
io the marble ; let it dry a day or two, then rub it off, and it will 
apjiear equal to new ; if verj' dirty, repeat the application. 

To kxtract Oil from Marble or Stone. — Soft soap, 1 part ; fullers 
earth, 2 parts; potash, 1 part; boiling water to mix. Lay it on 
the spots of grease, and let it remain for a few hours. 












106 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



To Clean Marble. — Take two pnrtg of common soda, i part pu- 
mice stone, and I part of finely powdcrecl chalk ; sift il throiit,'!! a 
(in.! elevi", and mix it with water; then rub it will all over ilio 
marble, and the stains will beremove'l; then wash the marble over 
with soap and water, and it will be as clean as it was at first. 

To MAKK A Chemical Bakomistkk.— Take a lung, narrow bottle, 
and put into it 2^ drs. of camphor; spirits of wme, 1 1 drs. When 
the camphor is dissolved, add to it the following mixture : water, 
1) drs. ; saltpetre, 38 grs. ; sal-ammoniac. 38 grs. Dissolve ihese 
salts in tho water prior to mixing with the camphorated spirit ; 
tiien shako all well together, cork the bottle well, wax ihe top, but 
afterwards make a very small aperture in the cork with a red-hot 
needle. By observing the different appearances wfiich tlie aiate- 
riaU assume as the weather changes, it becomes an excellent prog- 
nosticator of a coming storm or of a sunny sky. 

PiiiNTEit'a Rollers are made of glue and molasses, with some- 
times a little Spanish white. The pmportions are 1 lb. glue lo I 
pint molasses. Break the glno t') pieces , soak for 24 hours, then 
melt the molasses, a id cast in a mould previously oiled to prevent 
it from sticking. When it gets hard after long use, remelt jt, using 
a little more molasses. 

Savage's Phintino Ink. — Pure balsam of copaiba, 9 oz ; lamp- 
black 3 cz. ; indigo and Prussian blue, each 5 drams ; Indian 
red, ^- oz. ; yellow soap, 3 oz. Mix, and grind to the utmost smooth- 
ness. 

Trapper's and Akgler's Secret for Game and Fish. — A rew 
drops of oil of anise, or oil rhodium, on any trapper's bait, will 
etitiee any wild animal into the snare trap. India cockle mixed 
with flour dough, and sprinkled on the surface of still water, will 
intoxicate fish, rendering them insensible ; when coming up to the 
surface, they can be lifted into a tub of fresh water to revive them, 
when tney may be used without fear 



I- -I 



RECEIPTS FOR CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, GILDERS. 
BRONZERS, GLASS STAINERS, &o. 

Cheap Black Walnht Stain— Burnt umber, 2 parts, rose pink, 
1 part, glue, I p.art, water sufficient ; heat all together and dis- 
solve completely, apply to the work first with a sponge, then go 
over it with a brush, and varnish over with shellac. 

Ebony Stain.— Drop black, 2 parts, rose pink, 1 part, turpentme 
a sufficient quantity. 

Bright Ykllow Stain.— 1. Brush over with the tincture of tur 
meric. 2. Warm the work, and brush it over with weak aquafortis 
varnish or oil as usual. 3. A very small bit of aloes put iato the 
varnish will give a rich yellow color to the wood 

Extra Black Stain for Wood.— Pour 2 quarts boiling water 
over 1 oz. of powdered extract of logwood, and, when Ihcssolnlion 
is effected, 1 dr. of yellow chromate of potash is added, and the 
whole well stirred. It is then ready for use as a wood-stain, or for 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, B|tCEIPT8. 107 



writing ink. When rubbed on wood, it produces a pure black. 
IJijuat Willi 2, 3, cr 4 appLciitioiis, till a Ufcp black is produced, 
vtiicli ttcqiiii'^d tlie liifilicst beauty when [loliiilu'd or stniut'd. 

Imitation of Mahogany.— Let tlici first coat of jiainiiiiK bo 
wliito lead, the second, orange, and the last, burnt umber oisicuna: 
juiiiating the veins according to your taste and practice. 

To Imitate Wainscot. — Let the first coat be white ; th^i second, 
half white and halt yellow ochre; and the third, yellow ochre 
only ; shadow with umber or sienna. 

To Imitate Satin Wood. — Take white for your first coating, 
light blue for the second, and dark blue or dark green for the 
third. 

Rosewood Satin, vf.py Bkight Shade. — Used Cold. — Take al- 
cohol 1 gal ; camwood, 2 oz ; set them in a warm place 24 
hours; then add extract of logwood, 3 oz. ; aquafortis, 1 (.<z. ; and 
niien dissolved it is ready for use ; it makes a very bright ground 
lilce the most beautiful rosewood ; 1,2, or more couis as you desire, 
over the whole surface. 

Vahnish for Fkames, etc.— Lay the frames over witti tin or 
Sliver foil by means of plaster of Paris, glue or cement of some 
kind, that the foil may be perfectly adherent to the wood ; then 
iipi'ly y"^"" K'JW lacquer varnish, which is made as follows : 
Ground turmeric, 1 lb ; powdered gamboge, 1^ ounces; powdered 
sandaraih, ;^>^ lbs ; powdered shellac, ^ lbs. ; spirits of wine, "J gals. ; 
dissolve and strain ; then add turpentine varnish, 1 pt. ; and it is 
ready (or use. 

CuKuiiY Stain. — Rain water, 3 qts. ; annotto, 4 oz. ; boil in a 
copjier kettle till the auuotto is dissolved, then put in a piece of 
potash the size of a walnut ; keep it on the fire about half an hour 
longer, and it is ready to bottle for use. 

Rosewood Stain, Lioiit Shade. — Equal parts of logwood and 
red-wood cliips, boil well in water sufficient to make a strong 
stain; apjily it to the furniture while hot ; 2 or 3 coats according 
to tie depth of coloi desired. 

Rose Pink Stain and Vahnish. — Put 1 oz. of potash in 1 qt. 
water, with red sanders, \^ oz. ; extract the color from the wood 
and strain; then add gum shellac, ^ lb., dissolve it by a brisk 
hre. Used upon logwood stain tor rosewood imitation. 

Blue Stain for Wood. — 1. Dissolve copper filings in aquafortis, 
brush the wood with it, and then go over the work with a hot so- 
lution ot pearlash (2 oz. to 1 i)t. of water) till it assumes a perfectly 
l;lue color. 2, Boil 1 lb of indigo, 2 lbs. wood, and 3 oz. alum, in 
J gal. water, brush well over until thoroughly stained. 

Imitation op Botany-Bay Wood.— Boil i lb. French berries (the 
unripe berries of the Rhamnus ivjectonus) in 2 qts. water till of a 
deep yellow, and while boiling hot, give 2 or 3 coats to the work. 
It a deeper color is desired, give a coat of logwood decoction over 
the yello\\ When nearly dry, form the grain with No. 8, black 
stum, used liot, and, when dry, rust and varnish. 

Mahogany Color — Dark.— 1. Boil ^ lb. of madder and 2 oz. log- 
woDd-chijts in a gallon ot water, and brush Avell over while hot ; 
wnen dry go over the whole with pearlash solution, 2 drs. to the 
quart 2 Put 2 oz. dragon s blood, bruised, into a quart of oil of 







,351 



108 CABIHBTMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



:: 'I 



turpentine; let the bottle stand in a warm place, shake frequently, 
and, when dissolved, steep the work in the mixture. 

Box-Wood Bkown Stain.— Hold your work to the fire, that it 
may r'^ceive a gentle warmth ; then take aquafortis, and, with a 
feather, pass it over the work till you fmd it change to a fine brown 
(always keeping it near the fire) , you may then varnish or polish it. 

Light Red Brown. — Boil j lb madder and J lb. fustic m 1 gal. 
water ; brush over the work, when boiling hot, until properly stain- 
ed. 2. The surface of the work being quite smooth, orush over 
with a weak solution of aquafortis, i oz. to the pint ; then finish 
with the following :— Put 4^ oz. dragon's blood and 1 oz.soda, both 
well bruised, to 3 pts spirits of wine, let it stand in a warm place, 
shake frequently, strain and lay on with a soft brush, repeating until 
of a proper color : polish with linseed oil or varnish. 

Purple. — Brush the work several ^mes with the logwood decoc- 
tion used for No*G, Black; and, when dry, give a coat of pearla^h 
solution, 1 dr to a quart lay it on evenly. 

Red. — 1. Boil I lb. Brazil wood and I oz. pearlash in a gal. of 
water; and, while hot, brush over the work until of a proper color. 
Dissolve 2 oz alum in 1 qt. water, and brush the solution over the 
work before it dries 2. Take a gallon of tlie above stain, add 2 oz. 
more pearlash ; use hot, aud brush over with the alum solution. 
3. Use a cold solution of archil, and brush over with the pearlash 
solution for No. 1, Bark mahogany. 

Mahogany Stain on Wood. — Take nitric acid, dilute with 10 
parts of water, and wash the wood with it. To produce rosewood 
finish, glaze the same with carmine or Munich lake. Asphaltum, 
thinned with turpentine, forms an excellent mahogany color on new 
work. 

Beactipcl Varnish for Violins, &c. — Rectified spirits of wine, ^ 
gal. ; add 6 oz. gum sandarach, 3 oz. ^ura mastic, and ^ pt. turpen- 
tine varnish ; put the above in a tin can by the stove, frequently 
shaking till well dissolved : strain and keep for use. If vou find 
it harder than you wish, thin with more turpentine varnish 

Another. — Heat together at a low temperature 2 qts. of alcohol, 
* pt. turpentine varnish, and 1 lb. clean gum mastic ; when the 
latter is thoroughly dissolved, strain through a cloth. 

Crimson Stain for Musioal Instruments. — Ground Brazil wood, 
lib.; water, 3 qts. ; cochineal, i^ouuce; boil the Brazil with tlie 
water for an hour, strain, add the cochineal: boil gently for half 
an hour, when it will be tit for use. If you wish a scarlet tint, boil 
an ounce of saffron m a quart of water, and pass ever the work 
before you stain it. 

Purple Stain.— Chipped logwood, I lb. ; water, 3 qts. ; pearlash, 
4 ounces; powdered indigo, 2 ounces. Boil the logwood in the 
water half an hour, add the pearlash and indigo, and when dis- 
solved, you will have a beautiful purple. 

Green Stain.— Strong vinegar, 3 pts. ; best verdigris, 4 ounces, 
ground fine ; sap jCreen, ^ ounce ; mix together. 

Black Stains for Wood. — 1. Drop a little sulphuric acid into a 
small quantity of water ; brush over the wood and hold it to the tire , 
it will be a fine black and receive a pood polish. 2 For a beautiful 
blackj ou wood, nothing can exceed the black Japan mentioned 



OABUfETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 109 

under Tinsmith's Department. Apply two coat»; after which, var- 
nish and polish it. 3. To 1 gal viaegar, add a quarter of a pound 
of iron ru3t; let it stand for a week : theu add a pound of dry- 
lampblack, and three-quarters of a poupd copperas ; stir it up for 
a couple of days. Lay on hve or six coats with a sponge, allowing 
it to dry between each ; polish with linseed-oil and a soft woollen 
rag, and it will look liKC ebony. Incomparable for iron work, 
ships' guns, shot, &c 4. Vinega,r, J gal : dry lampblack, ^ lb ; 
iron-rust sifted, 3 lbs. ; mix and let stand for a week. Lay three 
coats of this on hot, and then rub with linseed oil, and you will 
have a fine deep black. 5. Add to the above stain, nut-galls, 1 oz. ; 
logwood-chips, J lb, ; copperas, i lb. ; lay on three coats ; oil well, 
and you will have a black stain that will stand any kind of wea- 
ther, and is well adapted for ships' combings, &c, 6 Logwood- 
chips, i lb.; Brazil-wood, J lb ; boil for IJ hours in 1 gal. water 
Brush the wood with this decoction while hot ; make a decoction 
of nut-galls, by simmering gently, for three or four days, a quarter 
of a pound of the galls in 3 qts. water ; give the wood three 
coats, and, while wet, lay on a solution of sulphate of iron i2 oz to 
a quart), and, when dry, oil or varnish 7 Give three coats with a 
solut on of copper filings in aquafortis, and repeatedly brush over 
With the logwood decoction until the greenness of the copper i3 
destroyed. 8. Boil ^ lb logwood-chip in 2 quarts water , add an 
ounce of pearlash, and apply hot with a brush. Then take 2 qts. 
of the logwood decoction, and i oz of verdigris and the same of 
copperas ; strain, and throw in | lb of iron rust. Brush the work 
well with this, and oiL 

MiscELLANEODS Stains. — Yellow 18 produccd by diluted nitric acid, 
Red\s produced by a solution of dragon's blood in spirits of wme 
Black is produced by a strong solution of nitric acid. Green is 
produced by a solution of verdigris m nitric acid; then, dipped in 
a hoi solution of pearlash produces a Blue stain Purple is produced 
by a solution of sal-ammoniac in nitric acid 

Finishing with One Uoat of Varnish. — Valuable Process — Give 
the furniture a coat of boiled linseed oil, then immediately sprinkle 
dry whiting upon it, and rub it m well with your hand or a stiff 
brush, all over the surface; the whiting absorbs the oil, and fills the 

Eores of the wood completely For black walnut, add a little 
urned umber to the whiting : for cherry, a little Venetian red, 
Ac , according to the color of tne wood Turned work can have it 
applied while m motion in the lathe. Furniture can afterwards 'ue 
finished with only one coat of varnish. 

Mahogany Stain on Maple. — Dragon's blood, J oz. ; alkanet, \ 
oz. ; aloes, I dr. ; spirits of wine, 16 oz. ; apply it with a sponge or 
brush. 

To Polish Wood. — Take a piece of pumice-stone and water, and 
pass repeatedly over the work until the rising of the grain is cut 
down Then take powdered tripoli and boiled linseed oil, and 
polish th(' work to a bright surface. 

Clock Case and Pictdbe Framk Finish. — Copal varnish, 2 lbs.; 
linseed oil varnish, k oz. ; mix well, shake often, and place in a 
warm spot The wood to be varnished is prepared with a thin coat 
uf glue-water, and rubbed down with fine pumioo-fltone or some- 



Ifi 



;V-;i 



^m. 



'A "m 



• <i 






I ^ > ¥f "1)1 



m' »t».^5 I 



y. 



SIvlf 



110 CABINETMAKEilS, PAIiNTELlS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



thing equivalent. In Hght-colorert wood, a light pigment, such as 
chalk, is added to the glue-water ; in dark wood, n, dark ;-';;:::vnt is 
added When rciidy, the articles are varnished with the ahovo 
mixture, and, after dryin?, rubbed with a solution of wax in etiie;- 
thereby receiving a high polish 

Fancv Figures on Wood — Slack some lime in stale urne. Dn 
a brush in it. and form on the wood figures to suit your fan y, 
Whe 1 dry, ruD it well with a rind of pork 

Black Walnut Polish. — Take pulverized asphaUnm ; put it in a 
jar or bottle, pour over it about twice Us bulk of turpentine or 
benzole, put in a warm place, and shake occasionally ; when dis- 
solved, strain, and apply it to the wood with a clotli or stiff brush ; 
should it prove too dark, dilute with turfientine or benzole. If de- 
sired to bring out the gram still more apply a mixture of boiled 
oil and turi)entine ; this is better than oil alone When tiie oil is 
dry, the wood can be polished witli the following Shellac varnish, 
2 parts boiled od, 1 part, shake it well before using Apply with 
a cloth, rubbing briskly 

Polishes. — 1 Carvers' Polish. — White resin, 2 oz, seed lac, 2 
oz.; spirits of wine, 1 pt. Dissolve It should be laid on warm. 
Avoid moisture and dampness when used 2 French Polish.-- 
Gum shellac, I oz , gum arable, \ oz ; gum copal, \ oz. Powder, 
and sift through a piece of musiin; put them i:i a closely corked bottle 
with 1 pt. spuits of wine, in a very warm situation, shaking every 
cfay till the gums are dissolved- then strain through muslin, and 
cork for Uhe. 3 J'olish for Dark-cAilorcd Woods. — SeedUic, 1 oz. ; 
gum guaiacuin, 2 drs ; dragon's blool, 2 drs. ; gum mastic, 2 drs. ; 
put in a bottle with I pt spirits of wine, cork close, expose to a 
moderate heat till the gums are diss(dved; strain into a bottle for 
use, with i gill of linseed oil ■ shake to<rether 4. Wiitc.r}>roi)J 
I'ohsh. — Gum benjamin, 2 oz ■ gum sandarach, \ oz ; gum anima,| 
oz j spirits of wine, 1 pt ; mix in a closely stojiijed buttle, and place 
either in a sand bath or in hot water till the gums are di. solved, 
then strain oft the mixture, shake it up with \ gill of the best 
clear poppy oil, and put it by for use 5 Fuushiny Polmh. — Gum 
shellac, 2 drs . gum benjamin, 2 drs. ; put into ^ pt.ot best rectilied 
spirits of wine in a bottle closely corked ; kee;^^ in a warm place, 
shaki ig fnqueatly till the gums are dissolved. When cold, shake 
up with it two teaspoonfuls of the best clear poppy oil. 

Polish fou Removing Stains, Spot.s, and AIii.uew fhom Furni- 
ture. — Take of 98 per cent alcohol,^ pint.; pulverised rosiu and 
gum shellac, of each, \ oz Let these cut in the alcohid •, then add 
unseed oil, ^ pt. ; shake well, and apply with a sponge, brush, or 
cotton "flannel, or an old newspaper, rubbing it well after the 
application, which gi'^es a nice polish 

Polish for Reviving Old Furniture.— Take alcohol, IJ oz. , 
spirits of salts {muriatic acid), h oz ; linseed oil, 8 oz. ; best vine- 
gar, h pt. ; and butier of antimony, 1<^ oz. ; mix, putting in the 
vinegar last. 

Jrt ou Polish for "Wood or Lrather, Black, Red, or Blvk — 
Alcohol (t)S per cent.), 1 pt. , sealing wax, the cidor desired, .^ 
sticks ; dissolve by heat, and have it warm wli«ii applied A apougo 
18 the best to apply it with. 



CABINETMAKERS, PAlJSTEUS, &C., RECEIPUS. Ill 



Polish for Turners' "Work. — Dissolve sandarach, 1 oz., in spirit 
of'vviiK', 2 i»t.; next shave bees'-wax, 1 oz. ; and dissolve it in asufli- 
cieiit (iiiantily of spirits of tnrpentine to make it into a paste ; add 
thu former mixture by degrees to it, then v/ith a woollen cloth apply 
it to the work while it is in motion in the lathe, and with a soft 
linen rag polisli it. It will appear as if highly varnished. 

FuK.Nirt'UE Polish. — Bees'-wax, ^ lb., and i of an oz. of alkanet 
root- melt together in a pipkin until the former is well colored. 
Tlicn add linseed oil and spirits of turpentine, of each half u gill ; 
strain through a piece of coarse muslin. 

Fkench Polishes. — 1. Shellac, 3 lbs. ; wood naphtha, 3 pts. ; dis- 
sohe. 2. Shellac, 2 lbs. ; powdered mastic andsandarach, of each 
I oz. ; copal-varnish, ^ pint ; spirits of wiue, 1 gal. Digest in llio 
<;ci](l till dissolved. 

Oil Finj.sh.— l.Lin:^eod oil, IG oz. ; black rosin, 4oz.; vinegar,4 oz. 
rectitied sp'rits, 3oz. • butter of antimony, 10 oz. ; spirit ot salts, 2 
oz. ; melt the rosin, add the oil, take it oil the tire, and stir in the 
vinegiir ; let it boil for a few minutes, stirring it; when cool, put it 
into a bottle, add the other ingredients, shaking all together. 2. 
Linseed oil, 1 pt. ; oil of turpentine, ^ pt. ; rectified spirit, 4 ozs.; 
powdered rosin, 1^ oz. ; rose pink, 5 oz.; mix. 

Fi'R.NiTURE Pastes. — 1. 13ees'-wax, spirits of turpentine, and lin- 
seed oil, equal parts ; melt and cool. 2. Bees'-wax, four ounces ; 
turpentine, 10 oz. ; alkanet root, to color ; melt and strain. 3. 
Bees'-wax, 1 lb. ; linseed oil, 5 oz. ; alkanet root, ^ oz. ; melt, and 
add 5 oz. of turpentine ; strain and cool .4. Bees'-wax, 4 oz. ; resiu, 
1 uz. ; oil of turpentine, 2 oz. ; Venetian red, to color. 

Furniture Paste. — 1. Turpentine, 1 pt. ; alkanet root, 5 oz. ; di- 
gest until sufficiently colored, then add bees'-wax, scraped small, 4 
oz. ; put the vessel into hot Avater, and stir till dissolved. It 
wanted pa/c, the alkanet root should be omitted. 2. ( White.) White 
, wjix, 1 lb. ; li(pu)r of ))otassa, 5 gal. ; boil to a proper consistence. 
i. Bees'-wiix, 1 lb. ; soap, ^ lb. ; ])earlash, 3 oz. (dissolved in water, J 
gal., and strained) ; boil as last. 4. Yellow wax, 18 parts ; resiu, 1 
|]iart; alkanet root, 1 part; turpentine, G parts ; linseed oil, G parts. 
First steep the alkanet in the oil with heat, and, when well colored, 
puur oil' the clear on the other ingredients, and again heat till all 
are dissolved. * 

Furniture Cream. — Bees'-wax, 1 lb. ; soap, 4 oz. ; pcarlash, 2 oz. ; 
j soft water, 1 gal. ; boil together until mixed. 

Furniture Oils. — 1. Acetic acid, 2 drs. ; oil of lavender, ^ (Jr. ; 
I rectified spirit, 1 dr.; linseed oil, 4 oz. 2. Linseed oil, 1 pt.; al- 
kanet root, 2 oz.: he-it, strain, and add lac varnish, 1 oz. 3. Lin- 
IsceJ oil, 1 pt. ; rectiliod spirit, 2 oz. ; butter of antimony, 4 oz. 4. 
Linseed oil, 1 gal. ; alkanet-root, 3 oz. ; rose pink, 1 oz. Boil 
tlietn togetiier ten minutes, and strain so liiat the oil be quite 
I clear. 

Woon-FiLLnw Composition. — Boiled linseed oil, 1 qt. ; turpentine, 
Vi (jts. ; corn starch, 5 lbs. ; Japan, 1 qt. ; calcined magnesia, 2 oz. 
|Mi\ Ihoruighly. 

Imi'iioved WooD-FiLLiNO Composition. — Whitening, Ooz. ; Japan, 

yi. ; boileil linseed oil, i pt. ; turpentine, ^ pt. ; corn starch, I 
|oz. Mix well togcthei* and ai)ply to the wosjd. On walnut wood 



1 ' 



i 



111." «r. ) .1 






/^- 



112 CABlNETMAKEilS, rAIiNTEIlS, &C., KECEII'TS. 



S ] 



ad J a littlo burned urabcr, on cborry a little Venetian rod, to the | 
above mixture. 

Dyes for Veneers. — A Jim Black. — Put G lbs. of logwood chips 
into your copper, with as many veneers as it will bold without I 
pressing too tight, fill it with water, let it boil slowly for about 3 
hours, then add ^ lb. of potvdered verdiffris, ^ lb. copperas, bruised 
gall-nuts, 4 oz. ; fill the copper up with vinegar a^ the water evapo 



rates , 
through 



let 



it boil gently 2 hours each day till the wood is dyed 
A fine Blue. — Put oil of vitriol, 1 lb., and 4 oz. of ih«| 



best powdered indigo, in a glass bottle. Set it in a glazed earthen ! 
I)an, as it wdl ferment. Now p;it your ve^^ers mlo a copper oi 
stone trough; fill it rather more than one-third with water, andi 
add as much of the vitriol and indigo (stirring it about) as •will 
make fine blue, testing it with apiece of white jjajier or wood. Let 
I the veneers remain tii; the dye has struck through. Keep tlie .solutioii 
of indigo a few weeks before using it ; this improves the color. Fm 
lYellow. — Reduce 4 lbs. cf the root ot barberry to dust by sawing, 
which put in a copper or brass trough ; add turmeric, 4 oz. ; water, 
4 gals. ; then put in as many vhite holly veneers as the liquor will 
cover. Boil them together for 3 hours, often turning them. "When cool, 
add aquafortis, 2 oz., and the dye will strike through mucli sooner, 
\jBright Green. — Proceed as in the previous receijjt to i)roduct8 
yellow ; but, instead of aquafortis, add as much of the vitrioLated 
iindigo (see above, under blue dye) as will produce the desitedl 
'«olor. Bright Red. — Brazil dust, 2 lbs. ; add water, 4 gals. Puij; 
in aa many veneers as the liquid will cover ; boil them fov 3 Iiour^ 
then add, alum, 2 oz., aquafortis, 2 oz. ; and keep it hike- warm umi 
it has struck through. Purple. — To 2 lbs. of chip logwood audi 
lb. Brazil dust, add 4 gals, of water ; and after putting in youi 
Tcneers, boil for 3 hours ; then add pearlash,G oz., and alum, 'i oz.; 
let them boil for 2 or 3 hours every day till the color has struck 
through. Orange. — Take the veneers out of the above yellow dyt,| 
and while still wet and saturated, transfer them to the bright 
dye till the color penetrates throughout. 

To IMPROVE THK CoLOR OF Stains. — Nitric acid, ! oz. ; miiriati(| 
acid, ^ teaspoonful ; grain tin, \ oz. ; rain water, 2 oz. Mi.xita| 
least 2 days before using, and keep your bottle well corked. 

Strong Glue for Inlaying or Veneering. — Select the best li 
brown glue, free from clouds and streaks. Dissolve Ibis in water/j 
and to every pint add half a gill of the best vinegar and J oz'jia 
isinglass. 

Inlaid Mother of Pearl "Work, on sewing machines and otlia;^ 
fancy work, is performed by selecting the thin scales of the sbcll^ 
and cementing them to the surface of the material ; the rest of tli«| 
surface is covered with successive coats ot Japan varnish, gcnw 
rally black, being subjected to a baking process after each appli'j 
cation. When the varnish is as thick as the shell, it is polished,? 
the gilding and painting added, and a flowing coat of varnisli put] 
over the whole. 

Another Method. — Prepare the job with a heavy coa* of black I 
Japan; then, before it is dry, procure some flakes of pearl ami lajj 
them on the black surface, pressing them into the Japan until thejj 
RTc level with the surface ; theu with colors form vines and llowcry 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEII'TS. 113 

I alloniiiR tho pearl to form the body of the flower or leaf, and shade 
up all nicely. _ ^ 

Compound Colors. — Light Gray is made ny mixing white lead 
with lamp black, using more or less of each material, as you wish 
to obtain a lighte/ or darker shade. Buff is made from yellow 
ioclire and white lead. Silver or Pearl Gray. — Mix white lead, 
Ipnissiiin blue, and a very slight portion of black, regulating the 
I quantities you wish to obtain. Flaxen Gray is obtained by a mix- 
[tiuc of white lead and Prussian blue, with a small quantity of lake. 
\ Brick Color.— YaWovf ochre and red lead, with a little white. Oak 
Wood Color. — 5 white lead and \ part umber and yellow ochre, 
[proportions of the last two ingredients being determined by the 
[dpsircd tints. Walnut-tree Color. — I white lead, and J red ochre, 
vellow ochre, and umber, mixed according to the shade sought. \i' 
Vt'ining is reipiired, use different shades of the same mixture, and 
{for the deepest places, black. Jonquil. — Yellow, pink, and wiiite 
I lead. This color is only proper for distemper. Lemon Yellov). — 
jRealgar and orpiment. The same color can be obtained by mixing 
yellow pi'ik with Naples vellow ; but it is then only fit for distem- 
[per. Orange Color. — Red lead and yellow ochre. Violet Color. — 
IVermilion, or red lead, mixed with black or blue, and a small por- 
jtion of white. Vermilion is preferable to red lead in mixing this 
J color. Pxiryih. — Dark-red mixed with violet color. Carnation. — 
JLake and white. Gold Color. — Massicot, or Naples yellow, witli 
[a small (juantity of realgar, and a very little Spanish white. Olive 
\Color may be obtained by olack and a little blue, mixed with yel- 
jlow. Yfllow-pink, with a little verdigris and lampblack ; also 
loeliro and a small quantity of white will produce an olive color. 
iFor (listcmpe/, indigo and yellow-pink, mixed with white lead or 
ISpanish white, must be used. If veined, itmust be done with umber. 
\jjead Color. — Prussian blue and white. Chestnut Color. — Red ochre 
[and black, foi' a dark chestnut. To make it lighter, employ a mix- 
Jtiire of yellow ochre. Light Timber Color — Spruce ochre, white, 
land a little umber. Flesh Color.- — Lake, white lead, and a little 
jvcrmilion. ]jiglit Willov} Green. — White, mixed with verdigris. 
tCivKs 6'/ww.— Yellow-pink, mixed with verdigris. Stone Color. — 
[white, with a little spruce ochre. J)ark Lead Color — Black and 
liite,witii a little Prussian blue. Fawn Color. — White lead, stone 
ochre, with a little vermilion. Chocolate Color. — Lampblack and 
Hpanisli brown. On account of the fatness of lampblack, mix some 
litharge and red lead. Portland Stone Co/or.-^Umber, yellow ochre, 
iiid white lead. Rose Color. — White lead and carmine or lake. 
^(dmon Color. — White lead and blue, yellow, and red. Pearl Color. 
-White lead, Prussian blue, and red.. Slate Color. — White lead, 
alack, red and blue. Pea Green. — White lead and chrome, or Paris 
^rcen. Crenm Color. — White lead, yellow and red. Straw Color, 
-White lead and yellow. Peach Blossom Color. — White lead and 
Ferniilion. Jirown. — Venetian red and lampblack. Dark Green. 
-Lanipl)lack and chrome green. Olive Color.— Red, green, or 
lack, yellow and red. Snuff Color. — Yellow, sienna, and red. 
Piu'ssiAN l>LUR. — 1st. Take nitric acid, any qu.intity, and as much 
Iron shavings from the lathe as tho acid will dissolve ; heat the 
[roil as hot as can be handled with the hand; then add it to the 

R 



! ^' U. 
1 

V' 






■ v-Tt 



i 



'Hi 



a, 



•f 



ii 



I 



;■' 



■\ 



114 CAIUNETMAKEUS, TAINTEIIS^ &C., RECEll'TS. 

acid in small quantities as long as the acid will dissolve it; thou 
slowly add double the quantity of soft wator that there was of 
acid, and put in iron'^again as long as the acid will dissolve it. 2d, 
Take prussiate of potash, dissolve it in the hot water to makej 
strong solution, and make sufficient of it with the first to give the 
de])th of tint desired, and the blue is made. 

AnothiSR Mkthod. — A very passable Prussian blue is made hj 
taking sulphate of iron (copperas) and prussiate of potusiii, equal 
parts of each ; and dissolving each separately in water, Ibeu uiii- 
ing the two waiers. 

Chuomk Yellow. — 1st. Take sugar of lead and Paris white, of 
each 5 lbs. ; dissolve them in hot water. '2d, Take bichnmiule of 
l)otash, 0^ uz. ; and dissolve it in hoi water also ; each article to 
be dissolved separately; then mix all together, putting iu the bi- 
chromate last. Let stand twenty-four hours. 

Chrome Green. — Take Paris wliite, G^ lbs. ; sugar of load, anil 
blue vitriol, of each 85 lbs. ; alum, 10^ oz. ; best soft Prussiai 
blue and chrome yellow, of each 3i lbs. Mix thoroughly wiiilt 
in tine powder, and add water, 1 gal., stirring well, and let staiii 
three or foi r hours. 

Green, DuRABt,r! and Cheap. — Take spruce yellow, and colorit 
with a solution of chrome yelloAk' and Prussian blue, until joi 
give it the siiade you wish. 

Another Method. — Blue vitriol, 5 lbs. ; sugar of lead, G\ lbs,;l 
arsenic, 2^ lbs.; bicbromat'j of ))otash, U oz. ;mix tliem tliorouglilji 
in line powder, and add water 3 parts, mixing well again, aaukl 
stand three or four hours. 

Pea Brown. — 1st, Take sulphate of copjjcr any q.aantity, ani^l 
dissolve it in hot water. 2d. Take prussiate of potash, dissolve itii i 
hot water to make a strong solution ; mix of the two sulutioni,] 
as in t!ie blue, and the color is made, 

liosE Pink. — Brazil wood, 1 lb., and boil it for two hours, liaviii|| 
1 gal. of water at the end ; then strain it, and boil alum, 1 lb.,ii| 
the same water until dissolved ; when suHiciently cool to admil 
the hand, add muriate of tin, 5 oz. Now have Paris 
lb.; moisten up to a salvy consistence, and when the first is co 
stir them thoroughly together. Let stand twenty-four hoiu's. 

Patent Yem<ow. — Common salt, 100 lb?., and litharge, 40011m,| 
are ground togi'ther with water, and for some time in a gentle \im 
Avater being added to supply the loss by evaporation ; the mi 
bonate of soda is tlien washed out with more water, and the wliif 
residivjin heated till it acquires a fine yellow color. 



Naples Yellow 
lbs. ; oxide of zinc 



-No. L Metallic antimony, 12 lbs. ; red lead, 



t(igeth(i( 



^, ^ lbs. Mix, calcine, triturate well 
and fuse in a crucible: the fused mass must be ground and el' 
triated to a fine ])()wder. 

Cheap Yellow Paint. — Whiting, 3 cwt,; ochre, 2 cwt. ; grjuii!] 
white lead, 25 lbs. Factitious linseed oil to grind. 

Stone-Color P 
cwt.; whiting, 1 
Factitious linseed oil to gri!id 

CJlazier's Putty.— Wfuting, 70 lbs.; boiled oil, 30 'bs, Mir 
if too thin, add more whiting ; if too thick, add more oil. 



iViNT. — Road-dust, 2 cwt, ; ground ivhite lead,i| 
cwt. ; ground umber, 11 lbs. ; lime water, (i 



\ 



CABINET3IAKERS, PAINTERS, &iJ., RECEIPTS. 114a 



ion : the <m 



CosiPOUND Colors. — Bhie.-'Qr' .id Prussian blue in turps, other 
Ibliie, very fine in linseed oil ; mix with white paint to tlie color 
jrequircd. Straw. — A mixture of chrome yellow and white lead, 
(oil and turps. Steel. — Mix ceruse, Prussian blue, fine lac, and ver- 
jmilion, with oil and turps. VurpU. — White lead, Prussian blue 
land vermilion, with oil and turi)S. French Grey. — White lead and 
iPrussian blue, tinged with vermilir/n, and for the last coat substi- 
Itiife carmine or lake for vermilion. Drab. — White lead with a 
little Prussian blue and French yellow, linseed oil and turps. An- 
lotlu'rJJrah. — Wliite lead with a little Prussian blue and lampblack, 
hinseed oil and tin-ps. DarkRed, for common purpoHe.'i. — Mix Eng- 
llish .'enetian red, in boiled oil, with a little red lead and litharge, 
Ito give a drying quality. Lighter Red. — Mix together equal parts 
[of Venetian red and red lead, in boiled oil and turps. Imitation of 
Vermilion.— {}vm<i together, m oil, red lead and rose pink. Deep 
ly^cr/.— Mix, in oil, vermilion with a dust of Venetian red, or red 
llead. Unfading Orange. — This is a mixture of orange lead (orpi- 
Jment) and French or stone yellow, oil and turps. Bright Yellow, 
forjloor.'t. — White lead and lif^-seed oil, mixed with some French 
jyollow, and a little chrome yellow to heighten it, some red lead, 
')iirnt white vitriol and lithargfe, added, to give it a drying quality. 
jTliis color mixed with equal parts of boiled oil and turpentine, and 
);5ed very tlmi. park Yellow. — Mix French yellow in boiled oil, 
|mlding to it a little red lead or litharge to give the paint a drying 
piality. Light Yellow. — This is a mixture of French yellow and 
liite lead,with oil and turpentine. Another. — French yellow, white 
Joiidand red lead. Another. — This is a mixture of Prussian blue, 
jh'rench yellow, a small portion of Turkey umber, and a little burnt 
Ivitriol. Ground the same way. Another, in oil. — Mix Prussian blue 
%nd chrome yellow. Ground the same. Another Shade. — A mix- 
ture of Prussian blue and French yellow, with a small quantity of 
fhite le.id and Turkey umber; add burnt white vitriol, ground the 
iiune. Another, light.- -While mixed with verdigris. A variety of 
sliadej may be obtained by using blue and yellow with white lead. 
\Anot.lier,oiiv6. — Black and blue mixed with yellow, in such quantities 
IS to obtain the colors or shades required. For disitempT, use indigo 
lud yellow pink mixed with whiting or white lead powder. Free- 
'fiUme color. — A mixture of red lead, Venetian red, French yellow and 
^atnpblack, (varying the shade according to taste,) with linseed oil 
md turpentine. iHioe Green. — Grind, separately, Prussian blue 
iiid French yellow, in boiled oil, then mix to the tints lequired 
[jvith a little burnt white vitriol to act as a dryer. A cheap and 
Biaiidsome color for outside work, such as doors, carts, w.'iggons. 
Tailings, &c. 

Lrai) Color for Iron. — Tf-ke litharge and place it over a fire 

Una ladle; sprinkle over it Hour of brimstone, to turn it dark; 

?rind it in oil. It dries quick, and stands well in any weather. 

A (jrooi) Imitation of Gold. — Mix white lead, chrome yellow 

nd burnt sienna until the proper shade is obtained. 

A Bkautipul White PAiNT.-For inside work.which ceases to smell, 

nd dries in a few hours. Add 1 lb. of frankincense to 2 quarts o\ 

pirits of turpentine; dissolve it over a clear fire, strain it, and 




iHh CABINETMAKERS, t>AlNTERS, AC, llECEIfTS. 



holtle it for use ; then add 1 pint of this mixture to 4 pints of I 
bleached linseed oil, sliake them well together, grind white It-adin 
spirits of turpentine, and strain it ; tlien add sufficient of the lead 
to make it proper for ])ainting; if too thick iii using, thin with 
turpentine, L being suitable for the best iaterual work on account 
of its superiority and expense. 

Foil A PURE WuiTK Paint. — Nut-oil is the best; if linseed oil is 
used, add one-third of turfieatine. 

To MIX Common Whitk Paint. — Mix or grind white lead in linseed | 
oil to the consistency of paste ; add turpentine in the i)roportion of 
one quart to the gallon of oil; but tliese proportions must be 
varied according to circumstances. Remember to strain your color 
for the better sorts of work. If the work 's exposed to tlie sun, 
use more tur[)entine for the ground-color, to prevent its blistering. 

Invisible Green for Outside Work, — Mix lampblack and French 
yellow v/ith burnt white vitri(d. These colors mix in boil d oil, 
Burnt vitriol is the host drier for greens,a3 it is powerful and color- 
les.^, and, consequently, will not injure the color. 

BiiioiiT Varnish Green, for Insidb Bmnds, Fenders, &c,— Tiie 
work must first be i)aiiited over with a light lead color, and, when 
dry, grind some white lead in spirits of turpentine ; afU'rwardj 
take about ^ in bulk of verdigris, which has been ground s till in 
linaeed oil ; then mix them both together, and put into a little 
lesin varnish, sufficient only to bind the color. When thi^i isnard, 
■wliicli will be the case in 15 minutes, pour into the color som« 
rosin to give it a good gloss. Then go over the work u. second 
lime and, if required, a third time. Thus you will have u ciieap 
jiud beautiful green, with a higli polisii. It possesses very drying.^ 
rpiality, as the worK may be comi)l(!ted in a few hours. Tiie tint 
maybe varied according to tast('!,by substituting mineral green foi 
verdigris ; and if a bright grass-green is required, add a little 
Dutch pink to the mixture. 

N.B.— This color must be used when quite warm,t,o give the var- 
nish an uniform extension. 

Compound Greens. — Tliis is a mixture of whiting, indigo and 
Dutdi pink, the intensity of which may be increased or diminished 
I)y the addition of blue or yellow. These mixtures will not admit 
of any fixed rules in regard to the quantities of the matters used 
in their composition. Tliey must depend on the taste of the artist 
and the tone lie is desirous of giving to the color. 

Pea Green. — Take one pound of genuine mineral green, onej 
jiound of the precipitate of topper, one pound and a half of bliiel 
verditer, three pounds of white lead, three ounces of sugar of lead,[ 
and three ounces of burnt white vitriol. Mix the whole of tiieMJ 
ingredients iri linseed oil, and grind them quite fine. It will prodticej 
n bright mineral pea-green paint, i)reserve a blue tint and keepanjj 
length of time in any climate, without injury, by putting wat«rj 
over it. To use this color for house or ship painting, take one 
pound of the green paint with some pale boiled oil, mix them well! 
together, and this will produce a strong pea-green paint. Tiie I 
tint may be altered at pleasure, by adding a proportionate quantitj 
of white lead to the greeu, which may be ground in liusecd oil, 



CAHINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C. RECEIPTS. 114o 

ii'ul tliiiiiKMl with spirits of tiirpontine for use. It may also bo 
usoil for painting Venetian window blinds, by adding white lend 
iiiKi niixinff the color with boiled oil. For all the aforesaid pre- 
paratioMS it will retain a blue tint, Avhich is very dcslrablu. 

For Knotti.no. — One pint of vegetable uaptha, 1 leaspoonful 
of red load, k pint of japanncrs gold size, 7 ozs. of orange shellac, 
mix all loguth ^.•, set lu a warm place to disaolve, and frequently 
sluike. 

Another. — Mix white lead, or red lead powder, in strong glue 
sine, and api)ly it warm. 

i^EALTiKUL CoLcu Kou CARKiAGEa, CoACTiES, &c. — Mlx Victoria 
lake with black ja})an. 

AVuiTE LEy\i). — The most usual method of manufacturing white 
lend is lliat known us the Dutch method. It consists in exposing 
lead, ca3t in thin gratings, to the combined action of acetic acid 
moist air and carbonic acid gas. The gratings arc supported a 
little altuve the bottom of earthen pots, similar to llower pots, iti 
each of wliich a small quantity of weak acetic acid is placed. 
The pots are built up in altematb layers with spent tanners' bark, 
until a stack is formed, each layer of pots being covered with a 
hoard. Fermentation soon takes place in the tan, and serves the 
double purpose of generating heat and supplying carbonic acid. 
Afier the lapse of six or eight weeks, the metallic lead is found 
color some ■ converted into white masses of carbonate mixed with bydrated 
uxiile. It is then levigated, washed, dried, and ground with oil. 

To CuiiE Dami' Walls. — Boil 2 ozs. of grease with 2 quarts of 
tar, for nearly twenty minutes, in an n-on vessel, and having ready 
]»oiiiided glass, 1 lb. ; slacked lime, 2 ibs , well dried in an iron pot 
and sifted through a Hour seive: add soma of the lime to the tar and 
glas.s, to make it the tliickncss of thin paste, pufficienj to cover a 
.>;p!aro foot at a time, as it Lurdeiis so quick. Apjdy it about an 
eij^hth of an inch thick. 

To PllOTECT WOOU AND BlUCK WOKK FROM DaMP WeATHEK. — 

Take 3 pocks of lime, slacked in the air, 2 pecks of wood ashes, 
and 1 peck of white sand. Sift them fine, and add linseed oil suili- 
cieiit to use with a paint brush ; thin the lirst coat , use it as thick 
as it will work for the second c:-n.\, grind it hnc. or beat it iu a 
trough, and it is a good composition. 

Putty for REPAiRiNfi Broken Walls; — The bes putty tor walls 
is composed of equal parts of whiting and plaster ot Paris, as it. 
qiiicldy hardens. The walls may be immediately colored upon it. 
.Some piMuU'rs use whiting mixed with size; but this is not good, 
•s it li.ses above the surface of tiie walls, and shows in patches 
Wi;en the work is finished. Lime must not be used as a putty to 
""Mair walls, as it will detitroy almost every color it comes iu con- 
tact with. 

IXHTia (^TlONS FOR SifiN WuiTINO, WITH THE CoLOHS TO BE USED 

FOR THE iJ ROUND AND JjKtters. — On iiM oak ground. ornamental 
letters, in ultramarine blue, lllled in with gold and silver leaf. 
Mocked u]) and shaded with burnt sienna. Anolher. — Gold letters 
on a wliit(; marble ground, blocked up and'sliaded with a transpa- 
leul 'udwu or burnt toieuua. On <jl<xss. — Uold klters, shaded wiUU 






,.;,.. 



^l 






ifll^ 



<t !{•■ 






Hid CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC , ilEOfill»T.S. 



burnt sionna. Another. — (ioM letters, sliuded with bbieic, dii a 
scarlet or chocolate ground. On a rich blue {ground, },'old U'lleis, 
double shaded, black and white. W'liite letters on a blue j,moiiii(1, 
shaded with black, look very well. On a ])iiriile fjround, i)ink let- 
ters shaded with white. Alix ultramarine and vermilion for a 
j^round color, white letters shaded with a ligiit grey. Vermilion 
ground, chrome yellow, stained with vermilion and lake, ibr the 
letters, sliaded black. A substitute for the above colors : Rose 
l)ink and rod lead; and for the letters, stone yellow, white lead 
and Venetian red. A gocnl substitute for gold is obtained hy 
grinding white lead, chrome yellow, and a dust of vermilk<n to. 
gether. Mix your colors for writing in boile'l oil, and use for drier 
gold size. Other good grounds for gold letters are : blues, vermi- 
lion; lake, and Haxon. When your sign is ready for gilding, follow 
the (lifcctions given under the head of "To Gild Letters on Wood." 

To Give Lusthe to a Luuit Blue Gkound. — After the letters 
are written and dry, paint the ground over again, between the let- 
ters, with the same color, and while wet take i)ulverized Prussian 
blue nnd sift over the surface ; glass, frost, or smalts may be used 
instead of or with the blue. When dry, brush off the loose par- 
ticles. 

To Remove Old Paint. — Sal soda, '1 lbs. ; lime, I lb. ; hot water, 
1 gab ; rummage all together and ai)])ly to the old paint while 
warm. It will soon loosen the paint so that yon can easily remove 
it. Another s"mj)le method is to sponge over your old paint with 
benzine, set it on fire, and you can then Hake off the paint as 
quick as yon like. Do not attempt to go over too much surface at 
a time, otherwise you might get more to do than }ou can attend 
to. 

Refuse Paint and Paint Skin^ — Dissolve sal soda, -y- lb., in 
rain water, 1 gal.; cover the refuse paint for 2 days, then heat it, 
adding oil to reduce it to a proper consistence for painting aiul 
straining. 

Soluble Glass can be made on a small scale by fusing together 
in a crucible. 15 parts of sand with 8 parts carbonate of soda and 
1 part charcoal, not soluble in cold water, but dissolves in boiliuy 
water, yielding a strongly alkaline liquor. 

Llack Walnut SStain. — Spirits of turpentine, 1 gal. ; pulverized 
asphaltum, 2 lbs, ; dissolve in an iron kettle on a stove, stirring 
constantly. Can be used over a red stain to imitate rosewood. 
To make a perfect black add a little lampblack. The addition of 
a little varnish with the tur])entine improves it. 

pKifSTAL Varnish, for Maps, &c. — Canada balsam, 1 oz. ; 
spirits of turpentine, 2 ozs. ; mix togethei-. Before applying this 
varnish to a drawing or colored print, the paper should be placed on 
a stretcher, and sized with a thin solution of isinglass in water, and 
dried. Apply Avith a soft camels-hair brush. 

To Ebonize Wood. — Mix up a strong stain of copperas and log- 
wood, to which add powdered nut-galL Stain your wood with this 
solution, dry, rub down^well, oil, then use French polish made 
tolerably dark with indigo or finely powdered stone blue. 

To Paint in Imitation ob' Ground Glass.— Gnnd and mix white 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 114d 



; oil of vitriol, 2 ozs. ; 
mix all wrell together, 



lead in tlircc-fourths of boiled oil and one-fourth spirits of turpon- 
liiie, and to give the mixture a very drying quality, add auilicient 
qiiaUitics of burnt white vitriol and sugar of lead. The color 
iiiiidt bo exceedingly thin, and put on tho panes of Klaes with a 
lari't' sized paint brush in as even a manner as possible. When a 
number of the panes are thus painted, take a dry duster quite new, 
dab the ends of the bristles on the gla.s3 in qiuek succession, till 
you give it an uniform appearance. Repeat this operation till the 
worlc appears very soft, and it will then appear like ground j^lass. 
When tlie glass requires fresh painting, get the old coat oft first 
by using strong pearl-ash water. 

Anotueh Mkthod. —Spirits of salts, 2 ozs. 
sulphate of copper, 1 oz. ; gum arabic, 1 oz. ; 
and dab on the glass with a brush. 

Another. — Dao your squares regularly. over with putty, when 
dry, go over them again ; the imitation will bo complete. 

Painting on Glass. — Take clear rosin, 1 oz., melt in an iron 
vessel. VViien all is melted, let it cool a little, but not harden; then 
add oil of turpentine sufficient to keep it in a liquid state. When 
cold, use it with colors ground in oil. 

Hard Duyino Paint. — Grind Venetian red. or any other color 
you wish, in boiled oil ; then thin ii with black japan. It will dry 
very hard for counter tops, &c. 

Si'uui' Grainino for Oak. — Two pounds of whiting, quarter of 
a pound of gold size, thinned down with spirits of turpentine : 
tiien tinge your whiting with Vandyke brown and raw sienna, 
ground fine. Strike out your lights with a fitch dipped in turpen- 
tine, tinged with a little color to show the lights. If your lights 
do not appear clear, add a little more turpentine. Turpentine var- 
nisli is a good substitute for the above mentioned. This kind of 
graining must be brushed over with beer, with a clean brush, be- 
fore varnishing. Strong beer must be used for glazing up top- 
graining and shading. 

Oil for Graining Oak. — Grind Vandyke brown in turpentine. 
add as much gold size as will set it, and as much soft soap as will 
make it stand the comb. Should it set too quickly, add a little 
boiled oil. Put a tcaspoonful of gold size to half a pint of tur- 
pentine, and as mucli soap as will lie on a twenty-five cent piece, 
tiuni take a little soda mixed with water and take out the veins. 

To prepare tub Ground fob Oak Rollers. — Stain your white 
load with raw sienna and red lead, or with chrome yellow and 
Vjnotian red ; thin it with oil and tnrps, and strain for use. When 
the ground work is dry, grind in beer Vandyke brown, whiting and 
a little burnt sienna, fir tlie graining color; or you may use raw 
dienna with a little wliiting, umbers, &c. 

To Imitate Old Oak. — i'o make an exceedingly rich color for 
tlie imitation of old oak, tlie ground is a composition of stone ochre 
or orange chrome and burnt sienna; the graining color is burnt 
umber or Vandyke brown, to darken it a little. Observe that the 
above colors must be used whether the imitation is in oil or dis- 
temper. When dry, varnish. 

To Imitate Old Oak, in Oil.— Grind Vandyke and whitine ia 






illf 


If 


! ''lil^'J;'' 


1 

V |! 


m 


1 


w 


m 


hk' 


III 



.1,1' 



K 






I. 



f: 



! • i 



. 



I 



I 



114/ CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 

turpentine, add a bit of common soap to make it stand the comb, 
and thin it with boiled oil. 

To Imitate Pollard Oak. — The ground color is prepared with 
a mixture of chrome yellow, verniihoii, and white lead, to a rich 
light buft". The graining colors are Vandyke brown and small 
portions of raw and burnt sienna and lake ground in ale or beer 
Fill a large tool with color, spread over the surface to be grained, 
and soften with the badger hair brush. Take a moistened sponge 
between the tbumb and finger, and dapple round and round in 
kind of knobs, then soften very lightlv ; then draw a softener 
from one set of knobs to the other while wet, to form a multi- 
plicity of grains, and finish the knots with a hair pencil, in some 
])lace3 in thicker clusters than others. When dry put the top 
grain on in a variety of directions, and varnish with turps and 
gold size ; then glaze up with Vandyke and strong ale. To finish, 
varnish with copal. , 

To Imitate Mottled Mahooaxy. — The ground is prepared 
with the best English Venetian red, red lead, and a small portion 
of white lead. The graining colors are burnt sienna, ground ift 
ale, with a small portion of Vandyke brown, sufficient to take 
away the fiery appearance of the sienna. Cover the snrfacc to be 
grained, soften with the badger hair brush, and while wet take a 
mottling-roller and go over the lights a second time, in order to 
give a variety of shade, then blend the whole of the work with 
the badger softener. Put the top grain on with the same color. 
Wheu dry, varnish. 

To Imitate Rosewood. — Mix vermilion and a small quantity of 
white lead for the ground, Take rose pink, tinged with a little 
lampblack, or Vandyke brown, and grind very fine in oil, then 
take a flat graining brush, with the hairs cut away at unequal 
distances, and cut down the grain as if wending round a knot. 
When nearly dry, take a graining comb that is used for oak, and 
draw down the grain. This will give it the appearance of nature. 
When dry, varnish. 

Another. — This ground color is prepared with vermilion and 
small quantities of white lead and crimson lake. When the 
ground is dry and made very smooth, take Vankyke brown, ground 
in oil, and with a small tool spread the color over the surface in 
different directions forming kind of knots. Before the work is dry, 
take a piece of.leaiher, and with great freedom strike out the light 
veins ; having previously prepared the darkest tint of Vandyke 
brown, or gum asphaltum, immediately take the flat graining brush 
with few hairs in it, draw the grain over the work and soften, 
When varnished the imitation will be excellent. 

Another Rosewood Imitation in Sizb. — Mix Venetian red, 
white lead powder, vermilion and common size, the consistency of 
which, when cold, must be that of a weak trembling jelly. VV'ith 
this composition paint the work twice over. When the ground is 
dry^ take some lamp black, finely ground in beer, and beat the 
white of an egg into it, take the flat graining brush, dipped in the 
blacky and put on the grain. When dry, stain the first coat of 



CABlNETMAkERS, tAlN^EllS, &C., RECEIPTS. 114^ 



varnish witU toso pink, finely ground in turpentine, and finish the 
wurk by giving it a coat of clear varnish. 

To iMiTATH BniD's BVB Maplb.— The ground is a light buff, 
j)n!pured witli white lead, chrome ,-ellow, and a little vermilion or 
English Venetian red, to take off the rawnesd of tlio yellow. The 
gruining color is equal parts of raw umber and sienna ground in 
oil to the proper consistency. Spread the surface of the work with 
this color, and, having some of the same prepared a little thicker, 
imuicdiiitelv take a sash tool or sponge, and put on the dark 
shades, and soften with the badgers nair brush ; before the color is 
(iiy ])at uu the eyes by dabbing the dotting maciiine on the work. 
When dry, put on the grain with the camels-hair pencil on the 
prominent parts, to imitate the small hearts of the wood. When 
(try. varnisn. 

To Imitate Cublbd Maple. — Prepare a light yellow for the 
ground, by mixing chrome yellow and white lead, tinged with 
Venetian red. The graining color is a mixture of equal portions of 
raw sienna and Vandyke, ground in ale, spread the surface to bo 
grained in an even manner ; then with a piece of cork rub across 
the work to and fro, to form the grains which run across tlie wood ; 
soften and, when dry, lightly toi^grain with the same color. When 
dry, varnish. 

CuiihED Maple in Oil fob Outside Work. — Prepare a rich 
ground by mixing chrome yellow, white lead and burnt sienna. 
For the grainitig color, grind equal parts of raw sienna and umber, 
with a little bu.'ut copperas in turpentine, and mix with it a small 
quantity of grainers cream. Thin the color with boiled oil; then 
ill! a tool and spread the surface even, and rub out the lights with 
the sharp edge of a piece of buff leather, which must now and 
then be wiped to keep it clean ; soften the edges of the work very 
lightly, and when dry, put on the top grain with burnt umber and 
raw sienna, ground in ale, with the wuite of an egg beat into it. 
A\'lien dry varnish. 

. Batinwood. — This ground is prepared with white lead, stone- 
ochre, and small quantities of clirome yellow and burnt sienna. 
The graining color is one-third of raw sienna and whiting, ground 
in pale ale, very thin ; then spread the color over the surface to 
be grained. While wet, soften, and have ready a wet roller or 
mottling brush, in order to take out the lights ; blend the whole 
with the badger hair brush. When the work is dry, take the flat 
brush, and with the same color, put on the top grain. When dry, 
varnish. 

^ To Imitate Yew Tree. — The ground is a reddish buff. For the 
grainiVg color grind in ale equal portions of randyke brown and 
burnt sienna, with a small quantity of raw sienna. When the 
ground is dry, spread the surface even with the color, and soften ; 
then with a piece of cork with a sharp edge, rub the work cross 
and cross in order to form the fine grain, as in curled maple, and 
soften the same way of the grain. When dry, dip the tip of your 
fingers in the graining color to form the eyes or knots, and put in 
jthe small touches with a camels-hair pencil. When dry, put oo 
the top grain, and^w.hen_this is dry, varnish. y;^ 



\i\ 



luA 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, 



&C., RECEIPTS. 



1 



To IMITATE Black and Goto Marble. — This description of 
marble ia now in great demand. The ground is a deep jet black, 
or a dead color, in gold size, drop black and turps : second coat, 
black japan. Commence veining ; mix white and yellow ochre with 
a small quantity of vermilion to give a gold tinge ; dip the pencil 
in this color, and dab on the ground with great freedom some large 
patches, from which small threads must be drawn in various direc- 
tions. In the deepest parts of the black, a white vei;i is someli'mes 
seen running with a great number of small veins attached to it; 
but care must be taken that these threads are connected with, and 
run in some degree in the same direction with the thicker veins. 
If durability is not an object, and the work is required in a short 
time, it may be executed very quick in distemper colors, and when 
varnished, it will look well. 

Rkd MARBiiE.— For the ground, put on a white tinged with lake 
or vermilion ; then apply deep rich reds in patches, lilling up tho 
intermediate spaces with brown and white mixed in oil ; then 
blend them together : if in quick drying colors^ use about half 
turps and gold ?ize. When dry, varnish ; and while the varnuqh 13 
wet, put in a multitude of fine white threads^ crossing the whole 
work in all directions, as the wet varnish bnngs the pencil to a 
line point. 

Jasper wlAnBLE. — Put on a white ground lightly tinged with 
blue ; then put on patches of rich reds or rose pink, leaving spaces 
of the white grounds ; then partly cover those spaces with various 
browns to form fossils, in places running veins ; then put in a few 
spjts of white in the centre of some of tho red patclies, and leaving 
in places masses nearly all white. When dry, use the clearest var- 
nish. ■^ 

Blue and Gold Marblh. — For the ground put on a light blue ; 
then lake blue, with a small piece of white lead and some 
dark common blue, and dab on the ground on patches, leaving 
portions of the ground to shine between ; then blend the edj^es 
together with a duster or softener; afterwards draw on some white 
veins in every direction, leaving large open spaces to bo tilled up 
with a pale yellow or gold-paint ; fiiiish with some fine white run- 
ning threads, and a coat of varnish at last. 

To IMITATE Granite. — For the ground color, stain your white 
lead to a light lead color^ with lamp black and a little .use pink. 
Throw on black spots, with a graniting machine, a pale red, and 
fill up with white Dcfore the ground is dry. 

Another. — A black ground, when half dry, '.hrow in vermilion, 
a deep yellow and white spots. 

To imitate Hair Wood — For the ground-color, take white load 
and tliln it with turpentine, and slightly stain it with equal quan- 
tities of Prussian blue and lamp black. For the graining color, 
grind in ale a mixture of Prussian blue and raw sienna ; when 
the ground is dry, spread a transparent coat of the graining color 
on the surface of the work, and soften ; then with the cork, mottle 
by rubbing it to and fro across the work to form the fine long 
grain or mottle. When this is done, soften and top grain in a 
wavy but iterpendicular directions ; varnish when dry. 



yABtNETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &'J , RECEIPTS. 115 






RrnsTiTrTE for White Lead.— Sulphate of barytes ground in 
nil and applied like paint It can also be used to reduce white 
lead to any desired extent. 

Paint for Black Boards in Schools.— Common glue, 4oz. ; flour 
of emery, 3 oz. ; and just lampblack enough to give an inky color to 
the preparation. Dissolve the glue m J qt. of warm water, put in 
the lampblack and emery, stir till there are no lumps, then 
apply to the board with a woollen rag smoothly rolled. Three 
coats are amply sufficient. 

CoMPOiND Iron Paint — Finely pulverized iron filing?, 1 part; 
brick dust, 1 part ; and ashes, I part. Pour over them glue-water 
or size, set the whole near the fire, and, when warm, stir them well 
together. With this paint cover all the wood work which may be 
in danger ; when dry, give a second coat, and the wood will be 
rendered incombustible. 

Rest Wash for Barns and Houses. — Water lime, 1 peck ; freshly 
slal<cd lime, 1 peck ; yellow ochre in powder, 4 Ib"^. ; burnt um- 
ber, 4 lbs. To be dissolved in hot water, and applied with a brush. 

ricRAnLE Outside Paint. — Take 2 parts (in bulk ) of water lime, 
crround fine : I part ( in bulk ) of white lead, in oil. Mix them 
tlioroiighly, by adding best boiled linseed oil, enough to prepare it 
to jiass through a paint-mil! ; after which, temper with oil till it 
cuii be applied with a common paint-brush. Make any color to 
suit. It will last 3 times as long as lead paint. It la Superior. 

Farmers' Paint. — Farmers will find the following profitable for 
house or fence paint : skim milk, two quarts ; fresh slacked lime 
8 oz.; linseed oil, 6 oz. ; white Burgundy pitch, 2 oz. ; Spanish 
white, 3 lbs. The lime is to be slacked in water, exposed to the 
air, and then mixed with about one-fourth of the milk ; the oil in 
which the pit«h is dissolved to be added, a little at a time, then 
the rest of the milk, and afterwards the Spanish white. This is 
snflicient for twenty-seven yards, 2 coats. This is for white paint. 
If (le.iirablo, any other color may be produced; thus, if a cream 
color is desired, in place of part of the Spanish white use tho 
ochre alone. 

Pai.ntino in Milk.— Skimmed milk, h gallon, newly slacked 
lime, G oz. ; and 4 oz. of iiOj'py, linseed, or nut oil ; and 3 lbs. Span- 
ish white. Put the lime into an earthen vessel or clean bucket ; 
and having poured on it a sufficient quantity of milk to make it 
about the thickness of cream, add the oil in small quantities, a 
little at a time, stirring the mixture well. Then put in the rest of 
the milk, afterwards the Spanish white finely powdered, or any 
other desired color. For out-door work add 2 oz. each more of oil 
and slacked lime, and 2 oz. of Burgundy pitch dissolved in the oil 
by a gentle heat. 

Prkmium Paint without Oil or Lead. — Slack stono-limc with 
boiling water in a tub or barrel to keep in the steam ; then pass 6 
quarts tlirough a fine sieve. Now to this quantity add 1 quart of 
coarse salt, and 1 gallon of water ; boil the mixture, and skim it 
clear To every 5 gallons of this skimmed mixture, add 1 lb. alum ; 
^ lb. copperas; and by slow degrees ^ lb. potash, and 4 quarts 
sifted ashes or fine sand ; add any coloring desired. A more dura* 
blc pnuit was never made. 



ft' 



HIS 



Mi 



\t>^<> . 



116 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEirTt^. 

Green Pa:.tjt for Garden Stands, Blinds, etc. — Take mineral 
green, and white lead ground m turpentine; n'ixup the quantity you 
wish with a small quantity of turpentine varniih. This serves for 
the first coat. For the second, put as much varnish in your mix- 
ture as rill produce a good gloss. If you desire a brighter green, 
add a little Prussian blue, which will much improve the color. 

Milk Paint, for BaRns, any Color. — Mix water lime with skim 
milk, to a proper consistence to apply with a brush, and it is ready 
to use. It will adhere "veil to wood, whether smooth or rough, to 
brick, mortar, or stone, where oil has not been used (in which case 
it cleaves to some extent), and forms a very hard substance, as 
durable as the best oil paint. It is too cheap to estimate, and anyone 
can put it on who can use a brush. Any color may be given to it, 
by using colors of the tinge desired. If a red is preferred, mix 
Venetian-red with milk, not using any lime. It looks well for 
fifteen years. 

Paint. — To Mak3 without Lead or Oil.' — "^'hiting, 5 lbs.-, 
skimmed milk, 2 qts. ; fresh slacked lime, 2 oz. Put the lime into 
a stoneware vessel, pour upon it a sufficient quantity of the milk 
to make a mixture resembling cream ; the balance of the milk is 
then to be added ; and lastly, the whiting is to be crumbled upon 
the surface of the fluid, in wnich it gradually sinks. At this period 
it must be well stirred in or ground, as you would other paint, and 
it is fit for use. 

Transparent Painting on Window Shades. — The muslin is 
spread on a frame and secured tightly with tacks, then sized with 
a mixture of fine flour paste, white glue, and white bar soap ; the 
soap renders the muslin pliable and soft. A thin coat is applied, 
which is nearly invisible when dry. A coat of pure linseed oil, 
diluted with spirits of turpentine, is then applied to the whole, or a 
part, as desired ; lay it on quickly and smoothly, to ensure an even 
transparent surface. The colors used are, ivory black, ultramarine, 
Paris green, sienna, umber, verdigris, asphaltum, or other suitable 
colors. An outline of the design is drawn with a small pencil 
with black or umber, after which the colors may be applied, more 
or less diluted, as more or Jess transparency is desired. In general, 
the brightest colors should be applied first, and the darker shades 
over tiiem. These colors must be laid evenly and smoothly with 
soft brushes, and should any part be made too dark, the best way 
is to scrape off with a stick before the color gets too dry. The best 
designs for shades consist of landscape views, and should always 
be designed to accommodate the form and position of the ground on 
which they are drawn. Stencils will be found useful on this work, 
in rap' ng corners or stripes for borders. 

To rsB Smalts. — For a gold lettered sign, lay out on a lead color 
or white surface the line of letters, and roughly size the shape of 
each letter with fat oil size. This must be allowed at least 12 
hours to get tacky and ready for gilding. After the gold leaf is 
laid and perfectly dry, mix up (for blue smalts) Prussian blue and 
keg lead with oil, adding a little dryer. Outline carefully around 
the letters, and fill up all the outside with blue paint ; then with a 
small sieve sift on the smalts, allowing the sign to lay horizon- 
tally. Cover every part with plenty of smalts, and 'llow it to 



I-' .„ 



OABINETMAKEIIS, POINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 117 



remam unmolested until the paint is dry. Then carefully shake 
oflf the surplus smalts, and the work is done. 

To Paint Magic Lantkun Slides. — Transparent colcs only are 
used for this work, such as lakes, sap-green, ultramarine, verdigris, 
gamboge, asphaltum^ &c., mixed in oil, and tempered with light 
colored varnish (wnite Demar). Draw on the paper the design 
desired, and stick it to the glass with water or gum ; then with a fine 
pencil put the outlines on the opposite side of the glass with the 
proper colors ; then shade or fill up with black or vandyke brown, 
as you tind best. 

Silver Polish Kalsominb. — Take 7 lbs. of Paris white and i lb. 
of light colored glue. Set the glue in a tin vessel coutaiiing 3 pts. 
of water; let it stand overnight to soak. Then put it in a kettle 
of boiling water over the fire, stirring till it is well dissolved and 
quite thin. Then, after putting the Paris white into a large water- 

Jiail, pour on hot water and stir it till it appears like thick milk. 
fow mingle the glue liquid with the whiting, stir it thoroughly 
and apply with a whitewash-brush, or a large paint brusa. 

Marine Paint for Metals in Salt Water. — Red lead, 55 parts ; 
quicksilver, 30 parts ; thick turpentine, 7 parts. Mix wit.» boiled 
linseed oil to the proper consistency. The quicksilver must be 
tlioroughly amalgamated with the thick turpentine by grinding or 
rubbing, and this mixture must be ground with the :x;d lead and 
more boiled oil. As little oil as is necessary to make the paint lay 
well must be used. To make the paint adhere more firmly, a 
previous coat of oxide of iron paint may be used. 

To Imitate Tortoise Shell. — ^Paint a ground of salmon color ; 
then when dry and smoothed oflf, coat it over with rose pink, mixed 
in varnish and turpentine ; then with a flat piece of glass, press on 
the surface, and remove the glass quickly, being careful not to 
push it over the paiats so as to disturb the curious figures which 
the pressure will form thereon. Varnish when dry, and you will 
fin»l you have a beautiful imitation of tortoise shell. 

Banner Painting. — Lay out the letters very accurately with 
charcoal or crayon, then saturate the cloth with water to render the 
painting easy. On large work a stencil will be found useful. Take 
a piece of tin, lay the straight edge to the mark, brush over with a 
sash tool, und by this means you will make a very clean-edged 
letter. Use stiflF bristle pencils in painting on canvas. 

Oil Cloth Painting. — To paint canvas for floors, the canvas 
should first be saturated with glue-water or flour paste, and 
allowed to dry first. Then paint it with any color desired. To 
put in the figures, cut out designs in tin plates or stiflF paper, and 
stencil them on in various colors. 

To Imitate Marble. — For while marble^ get up a pure white 
ground, then hold a lighted candle near the surface, ana allow the 
smoke to form the shades and various tints desired. This will 
make a very handsome imitation. Black marble imitation is made 
by streaking a black surface with colors, using a feather and pencil. 
Another plan is to get up a smooth black surface ; then take the 
colors, green, yellow, red, white, &c., ground thick m gold size, 
and streak th« surface with a oiick or pencil. A'' ▼ it to dry, and 
'^Ppl7 ft henyy CO»t of lampblack and yellow ochre, mixed with 




\\i ., 



^ m 



ri'iN 



ii^ CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECIEPTS. 

rough stuff. When nil is hard, rub down to a level surface xvith 
lump pumice stone, varnish, and a beautiful variegated marblo will 
be the result. 

GiLDiNft AND Ornamenting Carriages.— English gold size is the 
best for this purpose. If you cannot get it ready prepared, make a 
substitute b^ using English varnish and japan 'in equal parts. If 
the gilding id for striping, you should mix a little chrome yellow 
with it, to be able to see the lines the better, but for lettering no 
coloring is required. Rub your job down smoothly, take a piece of 
muslin and tie up in it a lit 'e whitening to form a " pounce bag;" 
with this dust over every pa t of the work whore the jold leaf is to 
be put, to prevent the leaf sticking to the surface not covered br 
the size, or wash the job over with stai'Ch water, or rub it over with 
the raw surface of a potatoe cut in halves ; the juice of the potatoe 
aoon dries, and leaves a thin film to which the gold will not adhere. 
Either ot the above methods will do, and the coating will wash off 

hop +ho gilding is dry. The surfa^R prepared, take the s1''-e and 
put < . the stripes, figures, or ornaments, and allow it to dry just 
enough to enable you to pass your finger over it without sticking, 
but if it is "tacky" when you placo your finger upon it, it is 
ready for the gold leaf, which is to btr applied in the way directed 
for gilding letters on wood. The gold letters may be shaded with 
ultramarine, carmine, asphaltum, lake, Paris green verdigris, &c. 
to suit the taste. 

Bronzino. — Gold bronze is used on carriaf e parts for striping 
and ornamenting, using the same size as that used for gold leaf. 
For taking up and applying the bronze, take a piece of plush or 
velvet and make a " pounce bag, "-by tying up a wad of cotton, 
rubbing the bronze gently over tlic size. To vary the appenranct', 
a mixture of copper, gold, and silver bronze may be applied. For 
fancy work in bronze,cui out any desired pattern on thin sheet bnuss, 
pasteboard, or paper, and apply it to any nearly dry varnished 
surface ; rub the bronze on through the apertures in the pat- 
torn. 

Good Colors for Ccstnesb 'Waooons. — No. 1. Bodji. — Chrome 
green ; frame or ribs, black, striped with white or cream color. 
liunning gear. — Cream color, striped with red, blue or dark green, 
or black, and red fine line. No, 2. Body. — Yellow ; frame black, 
striped with blue or white. Running gear. — Light vermilion, striped 
with black and white. No. 3. Body. — Carmine glaze over Indian 
red. Running gear. — Vermilion. No. 4. Body. — Deep vermilion. 
Running gear. — Light vermilion. 

Mixture to removb old Paint. — Dissolve 1 lb, potash in 3 pts. 
water over the fire, then add yellow ochro oc some common dry 
paint until it is as thick as rough stuff; spread this over your old 
paint, and after a little it will come off quite easily, then wash the 
wood with soap and water to remove all the potash, dry off and 
sand-paper, then give a coat of clean raw oil. Another method is to 
heat V. heavv piece of iron and apply to the paint, which will cause 
it to become loose and soft, so that it may be scraped off with a 
knife. Still another method is to direct the flame of a spirit lamp 
(which may be constructed for the pnrpose) on the old paint, 
scraping it off as it softens. 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 1 1 



To Br,j5Acn Oil. — Pour as much linspcd oil into a shallow earthen 
vessel t'-s will stand one incli deep, tlioii i»our in 6 inches ft water, 
cover with a fine cloth, and i«'t the whole stand in the sun for a 
few weeks until the liquid becomes thick, wlien itshould be poured 
into a phial and submitted to a gentle heat ; after which the clear 
is to be i)oured off and strained through a flannel cloth. 

'Jo Ooi'Y AN UnNAMENT. — Place the paper or other article 
rontaiiiing the ornament against a pane of glass ; then laying a 
rvi'etof thin paper over it, \ou can copy it exactly with a lead 
oriicil. 

Oknaments, in the shape of decalcoraino. or other gilded pic- 
turns, niuy be easily transferred to carriages -r coaches by following 
the directions given in transferring pictures to glass. 

\ermimon. — To prevent vermilion from fading, add -to the dry 
colul, before mixing, i part of dour of sulphur. Light English 
vcruiiUon is used for striping, ornamenting or lettering ; the deep 
vermilion having less bodv, will not cover good. English vermi- 
lion gives the best coloro:j vajr'age work when mixed with rubbing 
T.arnishandoil. American vcrmilionshould not be ground nsthe pro- 
cess would change it to an orango color ; while green, I r-Oibn red, 
chrome-yellow, and all heavy body colors are all the better for being 
ground as fine as possible. *Raw oil is preferable to boiled, as it is 
more volatile, and penetrates and fills the pores of the wood better. 

I'uiMiNO roll Carkiaoe Work. — J'irst coat of lead. Mu '•■hhv 
li\'id with raw oil, 2 parts, japan, 1 part, to make it proper for -^ 
thick coat, aadinga very little turpentine to make it work '"htjily 
For carriage parts add a little Indian black, but not for boii»«'i 
,Seco7i(i coat of lead. Mix white lead with 1 part raw oil and 2 par;* 
jiipan, and a little turpentine, as before, adding l!i:npb?ack for car- 
riage parts, but none for the body. Third and fourth coat. Mix Tvhne 
load into a thick i^aste with turpentine, add a little oil. japan flr.<.l 
rubbing varnish to bind the paint well ; add, for the carnage part?. 
n little lamjjblack find a little red lead. 

Hard drvino Putty. — For ramaae work. — .Mix dry white lead 
with ji;,?«;n and rubbing varnish equal parts, to the proper 'orisist- 
cnry, beating it with a small mallet to bruise the lumps. Keep it, 
when not in use, in water, to prevent i' drying. 

Koiroii Stufp\ — For carriage work. — Take 3 parts of English 
filling (ground state), 2 parts dry white lead, 1 part white lead in 
oil. Mix with japan, 2 {»arts, rubbing varnish, 1 part. Mix and 
crush thoroughly by running all through the mill together. 

Facing Lkad rou Carriage Work. — Mix dry whitcvlead with 2 
parts japan, 1 part rubbing varnish, and thin with spirits of turpen- 
tine, adding a little lampblack to make a clean lead color, and run 
all through the mill, 

CoAcii Painting.— The panels of such work are generally painted 
in color, while tlie pillars, top strip, quarters, deck, &c., are alwa^'S 
black ; umber colors, lakes, greens, and blues are some of the best 
colors used on this work. To prepare the body for any of these 
colors, a around color is used in the place of lampblack on black 
work. The following are a tew approved (/rounds. 7>aA:c.— Indian 
red arul vermilion mixed to a dark brown, but some prefer a black 
jii'ound for hike. Ultramarine. — Mix a medium blue with white lead 



. .1 



jf.H 







120 CAIilNETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 

nut! Pnissiiin blue. Vei-milion, — A light pink color is generally used 
as a gronml for vormilion. dreen. — tirecn and all heavy-to(lie(l 
c;jlors will cover 'well on the lead colors ■without any ground color. 

FiSH-OiL Paints. — Dissolve white vitriol and litharge, of euch 
14 lbs., in vinegar, 32 gals. ; add whale, seal, or cod oil, 1 tun, and 
boil to dryness, continually stirring during the ebullition. The 
next day, decant the clear portion ; add linseed oil, 12 gals. ; oil 
of turpentine, 3 gals., and mix well together. The sediment left ia 
v/ell agitated with half its quantity of lime-water, used for some 
inferior paints under the name of '^ prepnrfid residue oil." This oi\ 
U used for various common purposes, as a substitute for linseed 
oil, of which the following paints are examples: — Pale Green. -^ 
Lime-water, gals. ; whiting and road-dust, of each, 1 cwt. : 
blue-black, 30 lbs. ; yellow ochre, 28 lbs. ; wet blue (previou^y 
ground in prepared residue oil), 20 lbs. ; grind well togetlier. 
For use, thin with equal parts of prepared residue oil and 
linseed-o'.l. 2. Bricfht Green. — Yellow ochre and wet blue, ot 
each. 1 cwt.; road-dust. 1^ cwt ; blue-black, 10 lbs.; lime water, 
G gals. ; prepared fish-oil, 4 gals. ; prepared residue and linseed oils, 
of each, 7^ gals. 3. Lead Color. — Whiting, 1 cwt. : blue black, 7 
lbs.; white lead (ground in oil), 28 lbs.; road-dust, 56 lbs.; lime 
water, 5 gals. ; jirepared residue oil, 2^ gals. 4. Reddish Brown. — 
Lime-water, 8 gals.; Spunish-brow.i, 1 cwt.; ro.ad-dust, 2 cwt.; 
prepared fish, prepared residue and linseed oils, of each, 4 gals. 5. 
Yellow. — Substitute ochre for Spanish-brown in the last receipt 
fi. Black. — Substitute lamp or blue black for Spanish-brown ia 
No, 4. 7. Stone Color. — Lmie-water, 4 gals ; whiting, 1 cwt.; 
wiiite-lead (ground in oil), 28 lbs,; road-dust, 56 lbs.; prep.ucil 
fish, linseed, and prepared residue oils, of each, 3 gals. 8. Choco- 
late. — No. 4 and 6 mixed together so as to form a ciiocolate-color. 
Remarks. — All the above paints require a little "drier." They are 
well fitted, by their cheapness, hardness, and durabdity, for com- 
mon out-door work. 

Porcelain Finish, veuy Hard and White, for Parlors. — To 
prepare the wood for tiie finish, if it be pine, give one or two coats 
of the" Varnish— Tr'insparent for Wood," which prevents the pitch 
from oozing out, causing the finish to turn yellow; next, give tht; 
room at least four coats of pure zinc, which may be ground in only 
sufficient oil to enable it to grind properly ; then mix to a proper 
consistence with turpentine or naphtha, (jiveeach coat time to dry. 
When it is dry and hard, sand-paper it to a perfectly smooth sur- 
face, when it is ready to receive the finish, which consists t)f two 
coats of French zinc ground in, and thinned with Deraar-varuidh, 
until it works properly under the brush. 

Jai-an Diuer, Best Quality. — Take linseed oil, ! gal. ; put into 
it gum shellac, ^ lb. ; litharge and burned Turkey umber, each ^ 
lb. ; red lead, ^ lb. ; sugar of lead, 6 oz. Boil in the oil till all are dis- 
solved, which will require about four hours ; remove from the fire, 
ami stir in spirits of turpentine, 1 gal., and it is done. 

Another. — Linseed oil, 5 gals. ; add red lead and litharge, each 
3J lbs.; raw umber, 1^ lbs. ; sugar of lead and sulphate of zinc, 
each, J lb.; pulverize all the articles together, and boil in the oil 
till disselved ; when a little cool, thin with turpentine, 5 gals. 



used 
)die(l 
:olor. 
each 
I, and 
The 
; oil 
left is 
some 
lis oi\ 
Icseed 

Jcwt. : 

iously 
retlier. 
and 
juc, ot 
water. 



CABINETMAKERS, tAINTEUS, &C., RECEIPTS. 121 

DuYiNo On. RQUAT, TO Patbnt Dkiers at One Qc/ABTERTiiKin Price. 
—Linseed oil, 2 gals. ; red lead and umber, each, 4 o/. ; sulphate of 
zinc 2 oz. ; suprar of lead, 2 oz Boil until it will scorch a feather, 
\vlicn it is ready for use. 

PuEPAiiED Oiii FOR CARRIAGES, *c. — To 1 gal.linpced oil add 2 Ibs. 
ginn sliellac ; litharge, ^ lb. ; red lead, i lb. ; umber, 1 oz. Boil 
slowly as usual until the gums are dissolved ; grind your paints 
in this (any color), and reduce with turpentine. Yellow ochre is 
iis<'d in floor pamting. 

Drying Oils. — 1. Nut or linseed oil, 1 gal. ; litharge, 12 oz. ; sugar 
of lead and white vitriol, of each 1 oz. ; simmer and skim untii a 
pellicle forms; cool, and, when settled, decant the clear. 2. Oil 
1 gal. ; litharge, 12 to 16 oz. ; as last. 3. Old nut or linseed oil, 1 
pint; litl)arge, 3 oz. Mix; agitate occasionally for 10 days ; then 
decant the clear. 4. Nut oil and water, of each 2 lbs. ; white vit- 
riol, 2 oz. ; boil to dryness. 5. Mix oil with powdered snow or 
ice, and keep it for 2 months without thawing. 

To KKOUCB Oiii Paint with Water. — Take 8 lbs. of pure nn- 
fOackcd lime, add 12 qts. water, stir it and let it settle, turn it off 
gently and l)ottlo it, keep it corked till used. This will mix with 
oil, and in proportion of half will render paint more durable. 

Oil Paint. — To heduok with Water. — Gum shellac, 1 lb. ; sal- 
soda, I lb.; water, 3 ])arts; boil all together in akettlj, stirring till 
dissolved. If it does not all dissolve, add a little more sal-soda; 
wiion cool, bottle for use; mix up 2 quarts of oil paint as usual, 
any color desired, using no turpentine ; put 1 pint of the gum 
slit'llac mixture with the oil paint when it becomes thick ; it can then 
be rtiduced with water to a proper thickness to lay on with a brush. 

Anotiikr Method. — Soft water, 1 gal. ; dissolve in it pearlasb, 3 
oz.; bring to a boil, and slowly add shellac, 1 lb. ; when cold, it is 
ready ^o be added to oil paint in equal proportions. 

How TO Build Gravkl Houses. — This is the best building ma- 
terial in the world. It is four times cheaper than wood, six times 
cheaper than stone, and superior to either. Proportions for mixing : 
to eigiit barrows ot 'jlacked lime, well deluged with water, add 15 
barrows of sand ; mix these to a creamy consistency, then add 60 
barrows ot coarse gravel, which must be worked well and com- 
]i!i'tely ; you can then throw stones into this mixture, of any shape 
or size, up to ten inches in diameter. Form moulds for the walls of 
tlie house by fixing boards horizontally against upright standards, 
which must be immovably braced so that they will not yield to the 
iiiiinen.?e pressure outwards as the material settles ; set the stand- 
ards in jiairs around the building where the walls are to stand, 
from six to eight feet apart, and so wide that the inner space shall 
form the thickness "f the wall. Into the moulds thus formed throw 
in the concrete material as fast as you choose, and the more pro- 
miscuously the better. In a short time the gravel will get as hard 
r.s tiie solid rock. 

Flexirlk Paint /on Canvas.— Yellow fioap, 2^ lbs ; boiling 
water, li gals.; dissolve; grind the solution while hot with f/ooci 
oil vamf; 1 i cwt. 

PAiNTKii'h Cream.— Pale nut oil, 6 oz. ; mastic, 1 oz. ; dissolvp; 
add of sugar of lead i oz., preriouely ground in the least poBuible 






i 


; t'S 


« id 
liM 


ii 



122 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



liij, 



I v. 



quantity of oil ; then add of water q. s. graduall}', until it acquiros 
llio consistency of cream, working it well all the t: le. Used to 
cover the nnfiniahed worltof painlers. It will wash oil with water. 

Paints, Different Souts. — hniE. — Blue-black, 25 lbs. : whiting, 
10) lbs.; road dust, sifted, 200 lbs.; lime-water, 12 gallons. Facti- 
tious linseed oil to grind. 

VVhitb Paint. — Whiting, 500 lbs. ; white leac^, 400 lbs. ; lime- 
water, 20 gallons. Factitious linseed oil to grind. 

BiiACK Paimt. — Ivory or lampblack, 100 lbs. ; road-dust, sifted, 
200 lbs. ; lime water, 18 gallons. Oil to grind. 

Brown Paint. — Venetian red,orSpanisli brown, 1 cwt. ; red-dust, 
3 cwt. ; common soot, 28 lbs. ; lime-water, 15 lbs. Factitious lin- 
seed oil to grind. 

Paris Grken. — Take unslacked lime of tlie l)ost quality, slack it 
with hot water; then take the finest part of ihe powder, and add 
alum-water as strong as it can be made, suthcieiit to form a thick 
])a.-5fe ; then color it with bichromate of ])otash and sulphate of 
copper until tlie color suits your fancy, and dry it for use. N.B. 
— The sulphate of copper gives a blue tinge; the bichromate of 
potash, a yellow. Observe this, and you will get it right. 

Beautiful Green Paint for Walls. — Take 4 lbs. Roman vitriol, 
and pour on it a tea-kettle full of boiling water. When dissolved, 
add 2 lbs. pearlash, and stir the mixture well with a stick until tiie 
effervescence ceases ; then add i lb. pulverized yellow arsenic, and 
stir the whole together. Lay it on with a paint brush ; an<i if the 
wall has not been painted before, 2oreven3 coats will be requisite. 
If a pea-green is required, i)Ut in less, if an ai»ple-green, more, of 
tlic yellow arsenic. This paint does not cost the quarter of oil- 
paint, and looks better. 

Blub Color for Oeilinos, &c. — Boil slowly for 3 hours 1 lb. 
blue vitriol and 5 lb. of the best whiting in about 3 qts. water; stir 
it frequently while toiling, and also on taking it off the fire. When 
it has stood till quite cold, {lour off the blue liquid, then mix tlie 
cake of color witu good size, and use it with a plasterer's brush in 
the same manner as whitewash, either for walls or ceilings. 

To Harden Whitewash.— To i pail of common whitewash 
add ^ pint of flour. Pour on boiling water in a sufficient quantity 
to thicken it. Then add G gals, of the lime and water, and stir 
well. 

Whitewash that will not nun off. — Mix np half a pailful of 
lime and water, ready to put on the wall ; then take \ pt. of fluiir, 
mix it up with water; then pour on it boiling water, a sufficient quan- 
tity to thickiin it ; then pour it while hot into the whitewash, stir 
all well together, and it is ready for use. 

Whitewash. — The best method of making a whitewasli for out- 
side exposure is to slack a ^ bushel of lime in a barrel, add 1 lb. 
of common salt, ^ lb. of the sulphate of zinc, and a gallon of 
sweet milk. 

Substitute for Plartkrof Paris. — Best whitening, 2 lbs.; glue, 
1 lb.; linseed oil, 1 lb. Heat all together, and stir thoroughly. Let 
the compound cool, and then lay it on a stone covered with powder- 
ed whitening, and heat it well till it becomes of a tough and firm 
consistence ; then put it by for use, covering with wot cloths to 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &.V., RECEIPTS. 123 

keep it fresh. When wanted forusc. itmustbe cutin pieces adapted 
to the size of the rnouldj into which it is forced by a iicrew press. 
Tlie orniiu:*^nt may be hxed to the wall, picture frame, &c., with 
glue or white lead. It becomes in time as hard as stone itself. 

Roman Cement.— Drift saiid, 94 parts; unslacked lime, 12 lbs.; 
and 4 lbs. of the poorest cheese grated; mix well ; add hot (not 
Itoiling) water to reduce to a proper consistenoo for plastering. 
Work well and quick with a thin smooth coat. 

Smalt. — Roast cobalt ore to drive off the arsenic ; make the resi- 
duum into a paste with oil of vitriol, and heat it to redness for an 
lior.r; powder, dissolve in water, and precipitate the oxide of iron 
))y carbonate of ])otash, gradually added until a rose-colored pow- 
der bi'giiis to tall ; then decant the clear, and precipitate by a solu- 
tion of silicate of potash, prepared by fusing together for 5 hours a 
mixture of 10 parts of potash, 15 parts of finely-ground flints, and 
1 ])art charcoal. The precipitate, when dry, may bo fused and 
powdered very fine. 

Factitious Linsked Oil. — Fish or vegetable oil, 100 gallons ; 
acetate of lead, 7 lbs. ; litharge, 7 lbs. ; dissolved in vinegar, 2 gals. 
Well mixed with heat, then add boiled oil, 7 gallons ; turpentine, 1 
gallon. Again well mix. 

Vaunisiies. — Common Oil Vaknish. — Resin, 4 lbs. ; bees'- wax, ^ 
lb. ; boiled oil, 1? gallon ; mix with heat ; then add spirits of turpen- 
tine, 2 quarts. 

(JiiiNESE Vaunish. — Mastic, 2 oz. ; sandarach, 2 oz. ; rectified spirit 
1 pt.; close the matrass with bUuider, with a pin hole for the escape 
of vaytor ; heat to boiling in a siind or water bath, and when dis- 
solved, strain through linen. 

Metallic Vaknish fok Coach Bodies.— A sphaltum, 56 lbs. ; melt, 
then add Ktharge, 9 lbs., red lead, 7 lbs. Boil, then add boiled oil, 
12 gals, yellow resin, 12 lbs. Again boil until, m cooling, the mix- 
ture may be rolled into pills ; then add spts. of turpentine, SOtjals. ; 
lampblack, 7 lbs. Mix well. 

Mastic Varnish. — Mastic, 1 lb. ; white wax, 1 oz. ; spirits turpen- 
tine, 1 gallon ; reduce the gums small : then digest it with beat in 
a close vessel till dissolved, 

Turpentine Varnish. — Resin, 1 lb.; boiled oil, 1 lb. ; melt; then 
add turpentine, 2 lbs. Mix well. 

Pale Varnish.- Pale African copal, 1 part ; fuse. Then add hot 
pale oil, 2 parts. Boil the mixture till it is stringy ; then cool a 
little, and add spirits of turpentine. 3 parts. 

Lacquer Vaknish. — A good lacquer is made by coloring lac- 
varnish with turmeric and annotto. Add as much of these two 
coloring substances to the varnish as well give the proper color ; 
then s(ieeze the varnish through a cotton cloth, when it forms 
lacquer. 

(ioLD Varnish — Digest shellac, sixteen parts gam aa.ndarach, 
mastic, of each three parts ; crocus, one part ; gum gamboge, two 
jiarts ; all bruised, with alcohol, one hundred and forty-four parts. 
Or, digest seedlac, sandarach, mastic, of each eight parts ; gamboge, 
two parts : dragon's blood, one part; white turpentine, six parts ; 
turmeric, four parts ; bruised with alcohol, one hundred and twenty 
parts. 



B\ 




""wm 






124 CABINETMAKERB, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



II 



Deep Gold-Colored Lacquer.— Secd-lac, 3 oz.; turmeric, 1 o/,. ; 
dragon's blood, one-fourth ounce • Hlcohol, 1 pt. ; digest for a week, 
frequently shaking: decant, and filter. 

Lacquers are used upon polished motnls and wood to impart tlio 
appearance of gold. If yellow is required, us« tunnovio, aloes, saf- 
fron or gamboge ; for red, use a^notto, or dragoi's blood, to color. 
Turmeric, gamboge, and dragon's blood generally alFord u sulll' 
cient range of colors. 

Gold Lacquer. — Put into a clean 4 gal. tin 1 lb. of ground lur- 
racric, IJ oz. of gamboge, 3J lbs. powdered gum sandaradi, ^ 
l)ound of shellac, and 2 gal. of spirits of wine. When shaken, (lis- 
solved, and strained, add 1 pint of turpentine varnish, well mixed. 

Varnish for Tools. — Take tallow, 2 oz. ; resin, 1 oz. ; and mcit 
together. Strain while hot, to get rid of specks which are in tin; 
resin ; apply a slight coat on yoiir tools with a brush, and it will 
keep o(f rust for any lengih of time. 

Gold Varnish.— 'Turmeric, 1 dram; gamboge, 1 dram; tir.-pen. 
tine, 2 pints ; shellac, 5 oz.; eandarafcn, 5 oz. ; dragon's h^ood, h 
drams; thin mastic varnish, 8 oz. ; digest with occasional ngitu- 
tion for 14 days ; then set aside to fine, and pour off the clear. 

liooKBiNDEHs' Varnish.— Sliellac, eight parts; gum benzoine, 3 
parts ; gum mastic, 2 parts ; bruise, an<l digest in alcohol, 48 purls ; 
oil of lavender, ^part. Or, digest shellac, 4 parti*; gum mastic, 2 
parts; gum dammer and white turpentine, of each 1 part; with 
alcohol (95 per cent.), 28 parts. 

Beautiful Pale Amber Varnish. — Amber, pale and transparent, 
a lbs. ; fuse; add hot clarified linseed oil, 2 gals. ; boil till it-strings 
strongly, cool a little, and add oil of turpentine, 4 gals. This hooii 
becomes very hard, and is the most durable of oil-varnishes. When 
wanted to dry quicker, drying oil may be substituted fbr linseed, 
or "driers " may be added during the cooling. 

Black Coach-Varnish. — Amber, 1 lb. ; fuse ; add hot dryirtff oil, 
h pt. ; powdered black resin and Naples asphaltum, of each ?> oz. 
When properly incorporated and considerably cooled, add oil uf 
turpentine, 1 pt. 

Body Varnish. — Finest African copal, 8 lbs. ; fuse carefully: add 
clarified oil, 2 gals.; boil gently for 4^ hours, or until quid; 
stringy ; cool a little, and thin v.'ith oil of turpentine, 3j gals. 
Drips slowly, 

Carriaob Varnish. — Sandarach, 19 oz. ; palo shellac, 9J oz.; 
very pale transparent resin, 12^ oz. ; turpentine, 18 oz.; 8,') per 
cent, alcohol, .'i pts. : dissolve. Used for the internal parts of car- 
riage, &c. Dries in ten minutes. 

Cabinetmakers' Varnish. — Very palo shellac, 5 lbs. ; mastic, 7 
oz. ; alcohol, 90 per cent. 5 or 6 pts. ; dissolve in the cold with fre- 
quent stirring. Used for French polishing, &c. 

Japanners* Copal Varnish. — Pale African copal, 7 lbs. ; fuse ; 
add clarified linseed oil, \ ^al. ; boil five minutes, remove it into 
the open air, add boiling oil of turpentine, 2 gals. ; mix well, strain 
it into the cistern, and cover it up immediately. Used to varnish 
furniture, and by japanners, coach-makers, Ac. 

Copal Varnish. — Pale hard ©opal, 8 lbs. ; add hot and palo 
drying oil, 2 gals. ; boil till it strings strongly fOol a little, and 



CABIN ETAIAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEll'T«. 125 



thin witlj hot rectified oil of turpentine, 3 gals. ? ftnd strain tmtnc- 
diiitf'l.v into the store can. Very fino. 

Gold Vakmsii of Watin, for Gir.nnn Auticlks. — Gumlao in 
pmins, pambogp, dragon's-blood, and annotto, of each 12 J oz. ; 
satl'ron, 3i oz. Each resin mupt be dissolved separately in 5 pts. of 
00 i)er cent, alcohol, and 2 separate tinctures ninst b" made with the 
dragon's blood and annotto in a like quantity of spirit ; and a 
proper proportion of each mixed together to produce the required 
slmdc. 

VAnjnsn Fon PiiASTER Casts.— White soap and white wax, each 
5 oz. ; water, 2 pts. : boil together in a clean vcss?l for a slinrt 
time. This varnisn is to be applied when cold with a soft 
brush. 

Transpauent Vaunish Fon Plouohs, &c.— Best alcohol, 1 gal. ; 
gnm sandarach, 2 lbs. ; gi m mastic, J lb. ; place all in a tin can 
wiiich admits of being corlied : cork tight, shake it frequently, 
occasionally placing the can in not water. When dissolved, it is 
ready for use. 

FixB BiiACK VAnNiSH FOR CoACHES. — Melt in an iron pot, amber, 
32 07.. ; resin, 6 oz. ; asphaltum, 6 oz. ; drying linseed oil, 1 pt. ; 
wlicn partly cooled, add oil of turpentine, warmed, 1 pint. 

MonoANT Varnish. — Dissolve 1 oz. mastic, 1 o/. sandarach, ,'; 
oz. gum gamboge, and i oz. turpentine in 6 oz. spirits turpentine. 
One of the simplest mordants is that procured by dissolving a little 
liuney in thick glue. It has the effect of greatly heightening tho 
color of the gold, and the leaf sticks extremely well. 

Chanoino Vabnish. — To imitate Gold or Silver, ^c. 'Pnt 4 oz. 
best gnm gamboge into 32 oz. spirits of turpentine ; 4 oz. dragon's 
blood into 32 oz. spirits of turpentine, and 1 oz. of annotto into 8 oz. 
spirits of turpentine. Make the 3 mixtures in different vessels. Keep 
tl:em in a warm place, exposed to the sun as much as possible, for 
about 2 weeks, when they will be fit fo'" use. Add together such 
quantities of each liqnor as the nature of the color you are desirous 
of obtaining will point out. 

Varnwh, Transparent, for Wood. — Best alcohol, 1 gal. ; nice 
gum shellac, 2i lbs. Place the iug or bottle in a situation to kee]. 
it just a little warm, and it will dissolve quicker than if hot, or left 
cold- 

patent Varnish for Wood or Canvas. — Take spirits of turpen» 
tine, 1 gal. ; asphaltum, 2 J lbs. ; put them into an iron kettle whicli 
will fit upon a stove, and dissolve the gum by heat. When dis- 
solved and a little cool, add copal varnish, 1 pt. ; and boiled linseed 
oil, 1 pt. ; when cold, it is ready for nse. Perhaps a little lamp- 
black would make it a more perfect black. 

Mosaic Gold Powdbr for Bronzino, &C. — .Melt 1 lb. tin in a 
orucible, add J lb. of purified quicksilver to it : when this is cold, 
it is reduced to powder, and ground, with J lb. sal-ammoniac and 
7 oz. flour of sulphur, till the whole is thoroughly mixed. They 
are then calcined in a matrass ; and the sublimation of the other 
ingredients leaves the tin converted into the mosaic gold ])owder 
wliich is found at the bottom of the glass. Remove any black or 
discolored particles. The sal-ammoniac used must be very white 
f^nd. clBftr, and the mercury of the utmost niirity. When ft dw:";r 





^1* 




12G (;AIJINETA1AKKUS, I'AINTEKS, &C., IlKClilPTS. 

red is required, grind a very small quantity of red lead with the 
above maleriaH. 

TkUK Gold Powder.— Put some gold leaf, with a little honey, or 
thick gum water made "with gum arabic, into an earthen uioriar, 
and i)ound ihe mixture till the gold is reduced to very small parti- 
cles ; then wash out the honey oi gum repeatedly with wiirin 
water, and the gold in powder will bo left behind. When dry, it iy 
fit for use. 

Ddtch Gold Powdbr is made from Dutch gold leaf, which is solo 
in books at a very low price. Treat in the manner described aliovt 
for true gold powder. When this inferior powder is used, eovei 
the gilding with a coat of cleai' varnish, otherAvise it will soon lose 
its bright appearjuice. 

Copi'KR PowDKK is prepared by dissolving filings or slips of coi»|)ci 
with nitrous acid in a receiver. When the acid is saturateil, ilm 
slips are to be removed ; or, if filings be employed, tlie solution ii 
to be poured ott' from what remains undissolved. JSmall burs iiic 
then put in, which will precipitate the copper powder from tlm 
saturated acid ; and, the liquid being poured from the powder, thid 
is to be washed clean off tlie crystals by repeated waters. 

General Directions for Bronzing. — The choice of tho above 
powders is of course determined by the degree of brilliancy you 
wish to obtain. The powder is mixed with strong gum water ur 
isinglass, and laid on with a brush or pencil ; and, when not sd 
dry as to have still a certain clamminess, a piece of soft lent her 
v/rapped round the finger is dipped in the powder, and rubbed over 
the work. When the work has been all covered with the bronze, 
it must be left to dry, and any loose powder then cleared away by 
a hair-pencil. 

Tmk Bronzing of Plaster Casts is effected by giving them a 
coat of oil or size ^'arnish, and when this is nearly dry, applying witli 
a dabber of cotton or a camel-hair pencil any of the metallic bron/,e 
powders ; or the powder may be placed in a little bag of muslin, and 
dusted over the surface, and afterwards finished with a wad of 
linen. The surface must be afterwards varnished. 

Bronzing Iron. — The subject should be heated to a greater degree 
thaof the hand can bear, and German gold, mixed with a suiidl 
quantity of spirit of wine varnish, spread over it with the pencil ; 
should the iron be already polisned, you must heat it well, ami 
moisten it with a linen rag dipped in vinegar. 

French Burnished Gilding. — Encollage, or glue coat. — To a 
decoction of wormwood and garlic in water, strained through a 
cloth, a little common salt and some vinegar are added. This is 
mixed with as much good glue, and the mixture spread in a hot 
state with a brush of boar's hair. When plaster or marble is gilded, 
leave out the salt. The first glue-coating is made thinner than tho 
second. 2. White preparation consists in covering the above sur- 
face with 8, 10, or 12 coats of Spanish white, mixed up with strong 
size ; each well worked on witn the brush. 3. Stop up the pores 
with thick whiting and glue, and smooth the surface with dog- 
skin. 4. Polish the surface with pumice-stone and very cold water. 
5. Retouch the whole in a skilful manner. 6. Cleanse witli a damp 
linen rag, and then a soft pponge. 7. Hub with c, horse's tail 



CAKINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, UECEIPTtf. 127 



1 I 



(fhare-^rassi the pdrts to be yellowed, to make them softer fl. 
yjli/w with yellow ochre carofiilly ground iti wulor utid mixed 
witb tniiidfwreiitcolorlesa size. Use the tliinuer part of tho mixture 
with a Hiie brujih. 9. Next rub the work with shave-grass to 
remove any j^rainilar appearance. 10, Gold water aiu consists of 
Ainii'tiiua bole, I lb. ; bloodstone (hematiio), 2 oz.; and as much 
jTiileiia, t'iicli st'parately ground in water. Then mix all together 
with a spoonful of olive-oil. This is tempered with a white slieei)- 
skiii glue, clear and well strained. Heat, and ipply three coat^ 
with a >ine long-haired brush. 11. Rub with a clean dry linen 
doili, except the |)arts to be burnishedj which are to receive otbar 
2 coat5 of tli(! gold size, temi)cred with glue. 12. The surface, 
diuiipcil with coi<l water (iced in summer), has then the ^«/(/ /««/ 
applied to it. Gild the fiolloiv ground before the more prominent 
piiitri; n'jiler being dexterously amdied by a soft brush, immedi- 
aicly bcliiutl the gold leaf, before laying it down ■ removing any 
excess of water with a diy brush. 13. Burnish with bloodstone. 
14, Ncvt pass a thin coat of glue, slightly warmed, over the parts 
that are not to be burnished. 15. Next moisten any broken nointa 
with a brush, and apply bits of gold leaf to them. IG. Apply the 
vvrmeil coat very lightly over the gold leaf with a soft brush. It 
gives lustre nnd fire to the gold, and is made as follows : annotto, 
2 oz. ; giimboge, 1 oi. ; vermilion, I oz. ; dragon's-blood, J oz. ; 
gait of tartJir, 2 oz. ; saffVon, 18 grs. ; boil in 2 English pints of 
water, over a slow firo, till it is reduced to a fourtii ; then pass the 
whole through a silk or muslin sieve. 17. Next pass over the dead 
Biufiices a second coiit of deadening glue, hotter than the first. 
Tliis (iuishes the work, and gives it strength. 

ISHo.Nzisa OR Gilding Wood. — Pipeclay, 2 oz. ; Prussian blue, 
patent yellow, raw umber, lampblack, of each, 1 oz. ; grind separa- 
tely with wiitoronas'one, and as mucnofthem as will make a good 
color i»iit into a small vessel 3 full of sixc. The wood, being pre- 
viously cleaned and smoothed, and coated with a mixture of clean 
size and lamitblack, receives a new coating twice successively 
with the above compound, having allowed the first to dry. After- 
wi'.rds tlie bronze powder is to be laid on with a pencil, and the 
whole burnished or cleaned anew, observing to repair the partg 
which may be injured by this operation; next the work must be 
coated over with a thin layer of Castile soap, which will take the 
glare off the burnishing, and afterwards be carefully rubbed with 
a wooilea aloth . The superfluous powder may be ruubed off when 
dr . 

p'fONZE PoAVDER of a paU gold color is produced from an alloy of 
13; parts of copper and 2j parts zinc, of a crimson metallic lustre, 
from co])per, of a paler color, copper, and a very little zinc ; green 
bronz'.' with a proportion of verdigris, of a fine orange color, by 
I4i jiarts copper and li} zinc; another orange color, 13^ parts 
copper and 2,'i zinc. The alloy is laminated into very fine leaves 
with careful jiunealing, and these are levigated into impalpable. 
powder.!?, along with a film of tine oil, to prevent oxidizement, and 
to favor the levigation. 

Reviveii for Gilt Frames. — White of eggs, 2 oz. ; chloride of 
Dotash or soda, 1 oz. ; mix well : blow off the dust itaox the frames j 



w 

.t'ii 



1% I 






l\ 



\t I 



128 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 

then go over them with a soft brush dipped in the mixture, and 
they will appear equal to new. 

(jIldino on Wood. — To gild in oi^, the wood, after being properly 
smov/thed, is covered with a coat of ffold size, niadu of dryin" 
linseed oil mixed with yellow ochre ; when this has become so dry 
as to adhere to the fingers without soiling them, the gold leat is 
laid on with great care and dexterity, and pressed down with 
cotton wool ; places that have been missed are covered with 
small pieces of gold leaf and when the whole is dry, the ragged 
bits are rubbed off with the cotton. This is by far the easiest mode 
of gilding : any other metallic leaves may be applied in a similar 
manner. Pale leaf gold has a greenish yellow color, and is an 
alloy of gold with silver. Dutch gold J'':f is only copper leaf 
colored with the fi nes of zinc; ' eing much cheaper tlian true 
gold leaf it is very usetul when larj^e quantities of gilding are 
required m places where it can be defended from the weatlier, as 
it changes color if exposed to moisture; and it should be covered 
with varnish. Silver leaf is prepared every way the same as gold 
leaf; but when applied, should be kept well covered with varnish, 
otherwise it is liable to tarnish ; a transparent yellow varnish will 
give it the appearance of gold. Whenever gold is fixed by means 
of linseed oil, it will bear \7ashing off, which burnished gold will 
not. 

To Removk Old Putty. — Apply nitric or muriatic acid. 

Glass and Porcelain Gilding. — Dissolve in boiled linseed oilan 
equal weight either of copal or amber ; add as much oil of tur- 
pentine as will enable you to ai)ply the compound or size thiis 
formed, as thin as possible, to the parts of the glass intended to be gilt. 
The glass is to be i)laced in a stove till it will almost biirathe 
fingers when handled : at this temperature the size becomes adh©. 
Bive, and a piece of gold-leaf, applied in the usual way, will imme- 
diately stick. Sweep off the sujierfliious portions of the leaf, and 
ifhen quite cold it may be burnished; taking care to interpose a 
piece ot India paper between the gold and the burnisher. 

SoLCBLB Glass. — 1. Silica, 1 part ; cnrbonate of soda. 2 parts;iiise 
together. 2. Carbonate of soda (dry), 54 parts ; dry carbonate of 
potassa, 70 parts; silica, 192 parts; soluble in boiling water, 
yielding a fine, transparent, semi-elastic varnish. 3. Carbonate of 
potassa (dry), 10 parts ; powdered quartz (or sand, free from iron 
or alumina), 15 parts; charcoal, 1 part; all fused together. Solu- 
ble in 5 or 6 times its weight of boiling water. The filtered solu- 
tion, evaporated to dryness, yields a transparent glass, permanent 
in the a'r. 

Etchinq on Glass. — Druggists' bottles, bar-tumblers, signs, and 
glassware of every description, can be lettered in a beautiful style 
of art, by simply giving the article to be engraved, or etched, a 
thin coat of the engraver's varnish (see next receipt), and the appli- 
cation of fluoric acid. Before doing so. the glass must be thorough- 
ly cleaned and heated, so that it can nardly be held. The varnish 
is then to be applied lightly over, and made smooth by dabbing it 
with a small ball of silk, filled with cotton. When dry and oven, 
the lines may be traced on it by a sharp steel, cutting dear 
through the varnish to the glass. The varnish must be removed | 



T8. 

lixture, and 

ng prn])erly 

■i of drying 

come so dry 

gold leatia 

down with 

vcrcd with 

tlie ragged 

nsiest mode 

in a similar 

', and ig an 

copper leaf 

r than true 

gilding are 

weather, as 

I bu covered 

ame as gold 

'ith varnish, 

varnish will 

:d by means 

d gold will 

cid. 

nsecd oil an 

1 oil of tur- 
)r size thus 
ed to be gilt, 
l)st bnrathe 
conies adhe- 
, will imme- 
the leaf, and 

interposes 
er. 

2 parts; i'use 
•arbonate of 
ling water, 
arbonate of 
'0 from iron 
thcr. Solu- 
iltorcd solu- 

permaacut 



CABNIETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 129 

clean from each letter, otherwise it will be an imperfect fob. When 
all is ready, pour on or apply the fluoric acid with a feather, fill- 
in"" each letter. Let it remain until it etclies to the required 
depth, then wash off with water, and remove the varnish. 

ErcniNO Varnish. — Take of virgin wax and asphaltuni, each 2 
«z. ; of black pitch and Burgundy pitch, each | oz. ; melt the wax 
and pitch in a new earthenware glazed pot, and add to them, by 
degrees, the nsphaltnm, finely powdered. Let the whole boil, sim- 
mering gradually, till such time as, taking a drop upon a 
plate, it will break when it is cold, on bending it double two or 
three times betwixt the fingers. The varnish, being then boiled 
enough, must be taken off the fire, and, after it cools a little, must 
beponrec" into warm Avater that it may work the more easily with 
the hands, so as to be formed into balls, which must be kneaded, 
and put into a piece ^iftatfety for UL<e. 

Flcoeic Acid, to Make por Etching PmirosKS. — You can make 
your own fluoric (sometimes called hydro-fluoric) acid, by getting 
the fluor or Derbyshire spar, ])ulverizing it, and putting all of it 
into sulphuric acid which the acid will cut or dissolve. Inasmuch 
as fluoric acid is destructive to glass, it cannot be kept in common 
bottles, but must be kept in lead or gutta percha bottles. 

Glass-Grinding foii Signs, Shades, Ac. — After you have etched 
a name or other design upon uncolored glass, and wish to have it 
show off" to better advantage by permitting the light to pas3on[y 
through the letters, you can do so by taking a piece of flat brass 
Buflfieiently largo not to dip into the letters, but pass over them 
■when gliding upon the surface of the glass; then, with flour of 
emery, and kee])ing it wet, you can grind the whole surface, very 
quickly, to look like the ground-glass globes often seen upon 
lamps, except the letter, which is eaten below the general surface. 

To Drill and Ornament Glass. — Glass can be easily drilled by 
a steel drill, hardened bnt not drawn, and driven at a high velo- 
city. Holes of any size, from the 1 6th of an inch upwards, can be 
drilled, by using spirits of turpentine as a drip ; and, easier still, 
by asing camphor with the turpentine. Do not press the glass 
very hard against the drill. If you require to ornament glass by 
turning in a lathe, use a good mill file and the turpentine and cam- 
phor drip, and you will find it an easy matter to produce any shape 
vou choose. 

Gilding Glass Signs, &c. — Cut a piece of thin paper to the size 

\f your glass, draw out your design correctly in black lead-pencil 

o the paper, then prick through the outline of the letters with a 

Jh.* needle ; tie up a little dry white lead in a piece of rag ; this is a 

fiQUto''fl-bag. Place your design upon the glass, right side Up, dust 
t \vitt» ^e pounoo-bag; and, after taking the paper off, the design 
B^ill app*K*r in white dots upon the glass ; these will guide you in 
laying on the gold on the opposite side, which must be well 
f/ertHff/pre,ii»r«tory to laying on the gold, Preparing the- size. — 
Boil {)crfectly clean water in an enamelled saucepan, and while 
hoiRng, add 2 or 3 shreds of best selected isinglass ; after a few 
minutes strain it through a clean linen rng; when cool, it is ready 
for use. Cltiin the ulnsx pcrfecthj. — When this is done, use a flat 
camei's-hair brush for laying ou the size ; and let it drain off when 



■ f 


81 


-II 


*ifl! 


-'••if 


'il 


'^1 


^'^1 




,••} { \ 




\Mi 



m 



1 



3; 



130 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, IlEOEiPTS. 



you put the gold on. When the gold is laid on and perfectly dry 
take a ball of the finest cotton wo.)l and gentlv rub or polish tht 
gold; you can then lay on auotlier coat of gold if desirable ; ity 
now ready for writing. In doing tliLs, mix a little of the best veget- 
able black with black japan ; thin with tur[»enline to propurwoik- 
ing consistency ; apply this when thoroughly dry ; wash off the 
superfluous gold, and shade as in sign-writing. 

Glab8 Gilding, Another Method. — Clean and dry the glass 
thoroughly, then lay out the lines for the letters with a piece of 
hard scented soap, then paint the letters on the right side of the 
glass Vvith lampblack mixed with oil, in order io form a guide for 
the tvork, then on the inside lay on a coat of the size mentioned in 
the preceding receipt, using a camel's-hair brush, covering the 
whole of the letters; next lay on the gold leaf with a tj^ until 
every part of the letters is covered well. Let, the leaf rem^iiji until 
the size is dry, when you will find that the letters on the front side 
can be easily seen and traced. This is done with quiclt drying 
black, mixed with a little varnish. Paint over the wnole directly 
on the gold ; allow it to dry ; then wipe off with soap and water 
the lampblack letters from the front side, with pur« cold water 
and a clean sponge ; wash the superfluous gold leaf and size from 
the back, and you will have a splendid gold letter on the glass; 
next, shade your letters to suit the taste, always remembering to 
shade to the edge of the gold, for the a you have only one edge to 
make straight. The other edge may be left rough, and when dry 
may be straightened by scraping with a knife. 

Ornamkntac Designs on Glass. — In making scrolls, eagles, &c., 
on glass, some painters put on the outlines a-id shades first, anii 
then lay the gold leaf over all; another good way is to scratch the 
shades into the gold leaf after it is dry, and put the colors on the 
back of the gold. Silver leaf may be used in the same manner as 

gold, but it will not wear as well. A very pretty letter may be made 
y incorporating silver with gold ; take paper and cut any fancy 
design to fit the parts of the letter ; stick it on the size before lay- 
ing the leaf, and then lay the leaf, allowing it to dry, and wash off 
as before ; then with a penknife raise the paper figure, and the 
exact shape or form of the figure will be found cut out of the gold 
letter; clean off nicely, apply more size, and lay silver leaf to cover 
the vacant spots; wash off when dry, and a very handsome letter 
will be the result. Colors may be used instead of silver, if desired, 
or a silver letter edged or " cut up" with gold, will look well. 

GiLDKKs' Gold Size. — Drying or boiled li iseed oil, thickened 
with yellow ochre, or calcined red ochre, and can-fully reduced to 
the utmost smoothness by grinding. It is thinned with oil of tur- 
pentine. 

To Gild Letters on Wood, &o.— When your sign is prepared as 
smooth as possible, go over it with a sizing made by white of an 
egg dissolved in about four times its weight of cold water ; ndding 
asraall quantity of fuller's earth, this to prevent the gold sticking 
to any part but the letters. When dry, set out the l»>tters find 
commence writing, laying on the size as thinly as possible, r/ith u 
sable pencil. Let it stand until you can barely feel a sligiit sticki- 
ness, then go to work with your gold leaf, knife, and cushion, and 



feetly dry, 

I'i'lishtht 

•able; it^ 

iv.st veget. 

sU off the 

the glass 

a piece of 

side of the 

guidefoT 

ntioned In 

fiirhxg the 

I tj^ until 

m^iifc until 

front side 

ck drying 

le directly 

iind water 

cold water 

d size from 

♦-he glass; 

nbering to 

ne edge to 

when dry 

agles, &a, 
!s first, ana 
scnvtcb the 
lors on the 
manner as 
ay be made 
any fancy 
before lay- 
d wash off 
'i, and the 
Df the gold 
af to cover 
ome letter 
if desired, 
I well, 
thickened 
reduced to 
oil of tur- 

reparod as 
t^hito of an 
;r ; addi'ig 



)le, v/ith ft 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, 40., RECEIPTS. 131 

rild the letters. Take a leaf up on the point of your knive, after 

ffiviiii^' it a slight i)ufF into the back part of your cushion, and 
l\.mi\ it on the trout imrt of the cushion as straight as possible, 
uiviiig it another slight putF with your mouth <o flatten it out. 
X.)\v cut it into the proper size, cutting with tlie heel of your knife 
forwards. Now rub the tip lightly on your hair ; take up the gold 
on the point, and place it neatly on the letters; when they are all 
covered get some very fine cotton wool, and gently rub the gold 
until it is smooth and bright. Then wash the sign with cTeau 
water to take off the egg size. 

SmsTiTUTE Foil Plasteii of Paris.— Best whitening, 2 lbs.; glue, 
lib.; linseed oil, lib. Heat all together, and stir thoroughly, 
Let the compound cool, and then lay it on a stone covered with 
jiowdercd Avliitcning, and heat it well till it becomes of a tough 
and firm consistence ; then put it by for use, covering with wet 
cloths to keep it fresh. "When wanted for use, it must be cut ia 
pieces adapted to the size of the mould, into which it is forced by 
a screw press. The ornament may be fixed to the wall, picture- 
frame, &c., with glue or white lead. It becomes in time as hard as 
siune itself. 

Gold Lrsms Fou Stonkwarb, China, &c. — Gold, 6 parts; aqua 
rogia, 3G i)arts. Dissolve, then add tin, 1 part; next add balsam 
of sul|ihiir, 3 parts; oil of^ turpentine. 1 part. Mix gradually into 
a niiutar, and rub it until the mixture becomes hard ; then add oil 
of turpentine, 4 parts. It is then to be applied to a ground pre- 
pared for the jjurpose. 

GiLDixo CiiixA AND Glass. — Powdcr... gold is mixed with borax 
and guuHwater, and the solution applied with a camel-hair pencil. 
Heat is then applied by a stove until the borax fuses, when the 
gold is fi.\edand afterwiirds burnished. 

Glass tSrAiMXG. — The following colors, after having been pre- 
pared, and rubbed upon a jdate of ground-glass, with the spirit of 
iurpeniinc or lavender thickened in the air, are applied with ahair- 
po'eil. Ik'fore using them, however, it is necessary to try ihem on 
sinsll pieces of glass, and opose them to the lire, to ascertain if the 
deaiveu tone of color is produced. The artist must bo guided by 
tll.■Sv^ ])roof-i)ieces in using his colors. The glass proper for receiv- 
i ig iVese pigments should be colorless, uniform, and difficult of 
fiisioG. A design must bo drawn on i)aper, and placed beneath the 
plate tf glass. Thd upper side of the glass, being sponged over 
with gum-water, affords, when dry, a suiface i)roper for receiving 
the colors without the risk of their running irregularlv, as they 
would ocherwiso do on the slippery glass. The artist draws on 
the ])lato (usually in black), with a fine pencil, all the traces which 
mark tiie great outlines or fihades of the figures. Afterwards, 

means 



when it is dry, the vilrifying colors are laid on by 



larger 



h;iir-]u'ncil-! ; their selection bei-ig regulated by the burnt speci 
ni'H-tiuts above mentioned. The following are all fast colors, 
wliieli do not run, except the yellow, which must therefore be 
laid on the ojjposite side of the glass. The preparations being all 
lad on, tiie glass is ready for being fired in a muflle, in order to fix 
and bring out the proper colors. Tlie muflle must be made of 
rery rtfractory fire-clay, flat at its bottom, and only fire or six 



Wu 



J Ha 

'■A 

ij 'l-i 

.KM 



(1 






132 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



inches high, TTith a strong arched roof, and close on all sides, to 
exclude smoke and flame On the bottom, a smooth bed of .sifted 
hme, freed from water, about half an inch thick, must he prepared 
for receiving the ghiss. Sometimes, several plates of glass are laid 
over each other, with a la3'cr of lime powder between each. Tlie 
fire is now lighted, and very gradually raised, lest the glass should 
be broken ; then keep it at a full heat for three or four hours, more 
or less, according to the indications of the trial slips; the yellow 
coloring being principally watched, it furnishing the best criterion 
of the state of the others. When all is right, let the fire die out, 
so as to anneal the glass. 

St^inkd-Glass Pigments. — No. 1. flesh-color. — Red lead, 1 oz.j 
red enamel (Venetian glass ensiniel, from alum and copperas cal- 
cined together) ; grind them to a fine powder, and work this up 
with alcohol upon a hard stone. When slightly baked, this pro- 
duces a fine flesh-color. No. 2. Black color.— Tako 14.^ oz. of sniitliy 
scales of iron ; mix them with 2 oz. of white glass ; antimony, 1 oz.; 
manganese, ^ oz. ; pound and grind these ingredients together with 
strong vinegar. No. 3. Brown color, — Wliite glass or enamel, 1 oz.; 
good manganese, ^ oz. ; grind together. No. 4. Jied, liosc, and 
Brown colors are made from peroxide of iron, prepared by nitric 
acid. The flux consists of borax, srtnd, and minium, in small quan- 
tities. Bed color may likewise be obtained from 1 oz. of red clialli, 
pounded, mixed with 2 oz. of white, hard enamel, and a Lttle 
peroxide of copper A red may also be comjiosed of rust of iron, 
glass of antimony, j'cUow glass of lead, such as is used by potters, 
or litharge, each in equal quantities, to whicli a little sulphuret 
of silver is added. This composition, well ground, produces a very 
fine red color on glass. No. 5. Green. — 2 oz. of bra.ss, calcined into 
an oxide; 2 oz. of minium, and 8 oz. of while sand; reduce them 
to a fine powder, which is to be enchased in a well-luted crucible, 
and heated strongly in an air furnace for an hour. When the mix. 
ture is cold, grind it in a brass mortar. Green may, however, be 
advantageously produced, by a yellow on one side and a blue on 
the other Oxide of chnmie has been also employed to stain glass 
green. No. 6. A fine rellorv utmn. — Take fine silver, lamiualed 
thin, dissolve m nitric acid, dilute with abundance of water, and 
precipitate with solution of sea-salt; mix this chloride of silver in 
ft dry powder, with three times its weight of pi])e clay, well burnt 
and ))ounded. The back of the glass pane is to be painted with this 
powder; for, when painted on the face, it is ayjt to rim into the 
other colors. A pale yellow can be made by mixing sulphuret of 
silver with glass of antimony and yellow ochre, previously calcined 
to a red brown tint. Work all these powders together, and paint 
on the back of the glass. Or silver lamimr., melted with sulphur 
and glass of antimony, thrown into cold water and afterwards 
ground to powder, afford a yellow. A pale yellow may be made with 
the powder resulting from bras.^, sulphur, and glass of antimony, 
calcined t(^geth('r in a crucil)]e till they cease to smoke, and then 
mixed with a little burntyellow ochre. TheyZ/Jc ydlnw of M. Meraud 
IS prepared from chloride of silver, oxide of zinc, and ru;;t of inai. 
Tliis mixture, simply ground, is ap[)lied on the glass. Oram/e color. 
—Take part of silver powder, as precipitated from the nitrate of 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0 , RECEIPTS. 133 

that metal, by plates of copper, and washed , mix with 1 part of 
red ocliic, uad 1 ot yellow, by careful trituration ; grind into a thia 
nai) witli' oil of turpentine or lavender ; apply thia with a brush, 

and burn in. « „ ^ 

iSiLVEiiiNO Looking-Glassbs with Purb Silver. — Prepare a mix- 
ture of 3 grs. of ammonia, 60 gra. nitrate of silver, 90 minims of 
spirits ot wine, 90 minims of water; when the nitrate of silver is 
dissolved, filter the liquid, and add a small quantity of sugar,) 15 
sn.), dissolved in 1| oz. of water and l^ oz. spirits ot wiae. Put 
the glass into this mixture, having one side covered with varnish, 
gum, or some substance to proveut the silver being ittached to it. 
Let it remaiti for a few days, and you have {.most elegant looking- 
glass; yet it is far more costly than the quicksilver. 

Another Method. — A sheet of tin-foil corresponding to the size 
of the plate of glass is evenly spread on a perfectly smooth and 
solid marble table, and every wrinkle on its surface is carefully 
rubbed down with a brush : a portion of mercury is then poured 
on, and rubbed over the foil with a clean i)iece of soft wooUea 
stuff, after which, two rules are applied to the edges, and mercury 
poured on to the depth of a crown piece , when any oxide on the 
surface is carefully removed, and the sheet of glass, perfectly cleaa 
and dry, is slid along over the surface of the liquid metal, so that 
uo air, dirt, or oxide can possibly either remain or get between 
them. When the glass has arrived at its proper position, gentle 
pressure is applied, and the table sloped a little to carry off the 
waste mercury ; after which it is covered with Hannel, and loaded 
n ith heavy weights ; in twenty-four hours it is removed to another 
lable, and further slanted, and this position is progressively in- 
civased during a month, till it becomes perpendicular. 

PoucKLAiN Colors. — The following are some of the colors used 
m the celebrated porcelain manufactory of Sevres, and the propor- 
tions in which they are compounded. Though intended for porce- 
lain painting, nearly all are applicable to painting on glass Flux 
No. 1 inuiium or red lead, 3 parts; white sand, washed, I part. 
This mixture is melled, by which it is converted into a greenish- 
coloured glass Flux No. 2. Grar/ flux. — Of No. 1, 8 parts; fused 
borax in powder, 1 part. This mixture is melted. Flux No. 3. For 
carimneH and ijreens. — Melt together fused borax, 5 parts ; calcined 
Hint. 3 parts ; pure minium, I part. No. I. Indigo blue. — Oxide of 
cobalt 1 part; flux No. 3, 2 parts. Veep azure blue. — Oxide of 
cobalt, 1 part , oxide of zinc, 2 parts ; flux No. 3, 5 parts. No. 2. 
IJiiienild Green.— Oxide of copper, 1 part; antimonic acid, 10 parts; 
flux No 1, 30 par Is. Pulverize toi^.ther, and melt. No. 3. Grass 
yrcen.—Qvccn oxide of chromium, I part; flux No. 3, 3 parts. Tri- 
turate and melt. No. 4 yellow. — Antimonic acid, 1 part; subsul- 
nhatc of tbe peroxide of iron, 8 parts ; oxide of zinc, 4 parts ; flux 
No. 1, 36 parts Rub up together and melt. If this color is too 
deep tlie salt of iron is dirainishod No. 5. Fixed yellow Jor touches. 
—No. 4, I part; white enamel of commerce, 2 parts. Molt and 
pour out; if not sufUciently fixed, a little sand may be added, No, 
ti Ihcj) Xnnkni yellmo — Subsulph^te of iron, I part ; oxide of zinc, 
2 parts ; llux No. 2, 8 parts. Triturate without ifnelting No. 7. 
Dee^t rtfci.— Subsulphate of iron, calcmed m a muffle until it be- 






'4 



1 I 




134 CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, AC., RECEIPTS.' 

comes of a beautiful capucine red, 1 part ; flux No. 2, 3 parts. 
Mix without melting. No. 8. Liver brown. — Oxiile of iron made of 
a red brown, aad mixed with three time^ its woiglit of llux No. 2. 
A tenth of sienna earth is added to it, if it is not deep enough. No. 
9. White. — The white enamel of commercf>, in cakes. No. 10. 
£>eep black. — Oxide of cobalt, 2 parts ; copper, 2 parts; oxide of 
manganese, I part ; flux No. 1, 6 parts ; fusofl borax, | part. Melt 
and add oxide of manganese, 1 part; oxide of copper, 2 parts! 
Triturate without melting. The Apjdicittion. — Follow the gcnerai 
directions given in another part of this woric, in relatioa to staia- 
ing glass. 

riow TO Write ox Glass in the Sun. — Dissolve chalk in aqua- 
fortis to tlie consistency of milk, and add to that a strong dissolu- 
tion of silver. Keep this in a ghirfsdecantei wl'11 stopped. Tliea 
cut out from a paper the letters you would have appear, ond pastu 
the paper on the decanter or jar, wliich you are to pliica in 
the sun in such a manner that its lays may pass through the 
spaces cut out of the paper, and fall on the surface of tlie liquor. 
The pari of the glass through Avhich the rays pass will tura 
black, whilst that under the jiaper will remaiii white. Do not 
shake the bottle during the operation. Used for lettering jars. 

To Transfer Prints, etc., to Glass or Wood. — Take of gum 
sandarach, 4 oz. : mastic, I oz. ; Venice turpentine, 1 o;;. ; alculiol, 15 
oz. Digest in a bottle, frequently shaking, and it is ready for use. 
Directions; use, if possible, good plate glass of the size of the pic- 
ture to be transferred, go over it witli the above varnisi), beginuing 
at one side, press down the i)icture firmly and evenly a^i you pro- 
ceed, so that no air can possibly lodge between ; put aside, and let 
dry perfectly, then moisten tlie paper cautiously with water, and 
remove it piecemeal by rubbing carefully with the lingers; if 
managed nicely, a complete trausfoi of the picture to the glass 
will be effected. 

Bottle Glass. — No. 1. Dark Green. — Fused glauber salts, 11 
lbs.; soaper salts, 12 11)3.; waste soap-aslies, ^ bush. ; silicioiis 
sanu, ^ cwt. ; glass-skimmings, Tl lbs. broken green glass, 1 cwt. 
to l| cwt.; basalt, 25 lbs. to \ cwt. No. 2. I\tle Cr/vc/i.— l';ile 
sand, 100 lbs. ; kelp, 35 lbs. ; lixiviated wood aslies, li cwt. ; fivsh 
do., 40 lbs. ; pipe-clay, ^ cwt. ; cullet, or broken glass, 1 cwt. No. 
3. Yellow or white sand, 120 parts ; wood-ashe-^, 80 parts ; pearl- 
ashes, 20 parts; common salt, 15 parts; white arsenic, 1 part; 
very pale. 

Crystal Glass. — No. 1. Refine 1 potashes, 60 Ibg.; sand, 120 
lbs. ; cl»alk, 24 lbs. ; nitre and white arsenic, of each 2 lbs. ; oxide 
of manganese, 1 to 2 oz. No. 2. Pure white sand, 120 i)arts ; re- 
tined ashes, 70 parts; saltpetre, 10 ])art3 ; wliite arsenic, i i)art; 
oxide of manganese, { part. No. 3. Sand, 120 j)arts ; red-lead, 5i» 
parts; purified pearlash, 40 parts; nitre. 20 parts ; manganese, J 
part. 

Flask Glass {of St. Etienne). — Pure silicioug sand, Gl parts; 
potash, 3J parts; lime, 21 parts; heavy spar, 2 parts; oxide of 
manganese, q. .s. 

Best German Crystal Glass. — Take 120 lbs of calcined flints 
or white saud; best pearlash, 70 lbs. ; saltpetre, 10 lbs. ; arsenic, 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTEltH, AC, RECEIPTS. 135 

I lb. • and 5 oz. magnesia. No. 2, (Cheaper.) Sand or flint, 120 
H,^ '.'peiuljisli, 40 11)3.; nitre, 7 lbs.; arsenic, 6 lbs. ; magnesia, 5 
oz. Thiri will require a long continuance in the furnace, as do all 
othvTS wiieii mucli of the arsenic is used. 

Plate Glass.— No. 1. Pure sand, 40 parts; dry carbonate of 
soda '20j piirtd; lime, 4 parts ; nitre, IJ parts ; broken plate glass, 
25 parts. No. 2. (Ire's. — Quartz-sand, 100 parts ; calcined sul- 
pliate of soda, 24 parts ; lime, 20 parts ; cuUet of soda-glass, 12 
parts. No. 3. Vienna. — Sand, 100 parts ; calcined sulphate of soda, 
50 parts; lime, 20 parte; charcoal, 2^ parts. No. 4. French. — 
White quartz sand and cullet, of each 300 parts ; dry carbonate of 
soda, 100 parts ; slacked lime, 43 parts. 

CuowN Glass.— No. 1. Sand, 300 lbs. ; soda-ash, 200 lbs. ; lime, 
30 to 35 lbs.; 200 to 300 lbs. of broken glass. No. 2. (Bohemian.') 
—Pure silicious sand, 63 parts ; potash, 2'-. parts ; lime, 12 parts ; 
oxide of manganese, 1 part. No. 3. {Prof. Schwcirigcr.) Pure sand, 
100 lbs. ; dry sulphate of soda, 50 parts ; dry quicklime in powder, 
17 to 20 parts ; charcoal, 4 parts. Product^ wnite and good. 

Bkst Window-Glass. — No. 1. Take of white sand, 60 lbs.; puri- 
fied pearlaslics, 30 lbs. ; of saltpetre, 15 lbs. ; of borax, 1 lb. ; of 
arsenic. \ lb. This will be very clear and colorless if the ingre- 
dients be good, and will not bo very dear. No. 2. (Cheaper.) 
Wiiii-e said, GO lbs, ; unpurifiod 5)oarl-ashe3, 25 lbs.; of common 
salt, 10 lbs. ; nitre, 5 lbs. : arsenic, 2 lbs. ; magnesia, Ij oz. No. 3. 
Common yiren loindow-ylass. — White said, 60 lbs.; unpurified 
pearlashes, 30 lbs. I eominon sal t, 10 lbs.; arsenic, 2 lbs. ; mag- 
uoiia, 2 oz. 

LooKi.Nfi-GLAga Plate.— No. 1. Cleansed white sand. 60 lbs.; 
peaiiashes, i)uritied, 25 lbs. ; saltpetre, 15 Ibi. ; borax, 7 Ids. This 
composition should be continued long in the lire, which should be 
Bometimc'S strong and afterwards more moderate, that the glass 
may be enlirely free from bubbles before it be worked. No. 2. 
White sand, GO lbs.; peariashe? 20 lbs.; common salt, 10 lbs.; 
nitre, 7 lbs. ; borax, 1 lb. Tliis glass will run with as little heat as 
tlie former; but it will be more brittle, and refract the rays of light 
in a greater degree. No. 3. Washed white sand, 60 lbs. ; purihed 
pearlashes, 1J5 lbs. ; nitre, 15 lbs.; borax, 7 lbs. If properly man- 
aged, this glass will be colorless. 

Window (iLAss. — No. 1. Dried sulphate of soda, lllbs. ; soaper 
salts, 10 lbs. ; lixiviated soap waste, ^ bush. ; sand, 50 to 60 lbs. ; 
glass-pot skimmings, 22 lbs.; broken ;>a/e green glass, 1 cwt. No. 
2. (/'(tl:'r). White sand, 60 lbs. ; pearl-ashes, 30 lbs. ; common salt, 
lOlbs. ; arsenic, 10 lbs. ; oxide of manganese, 2 to 4 oz. No. 3. ( Tery 
P(de.) White sand, 60 lbs. | good pot ashes, 25 lbs. ; common stU^ 
10 lbs. ; nitre, 5 lbs. ; arsenic, 2 lbs. ; magnanese, 2 to 4 oz. as re* 
quired ; broken pale window glass, 14 lbs. 

OoLORBR Glass. — Pine Blue. To 10 lbs. of flint glass, previously 
melted and cast into water, add zaffer, 6 drs., ^ oz. of calcined cop- 
per, prepared by putting shoet copper into a crucible, and expos- 
ing it to the action of a firo not strong enough to melt the copper, 
and you will have the copper in scales, which you poimd. Bright 
Purple.— Use 10 lbs. flint glass as before; zaffer, 5 drs., precipitate 
of calcium, 1 dr. Gold 1 elloiv. Twenty-eight pounds flint glass^ 






136 0ABINETMAKEE8, PAINTERS, 40., RECEIPTS. 



and a quarter ponnrlnf the tarfnrTvIiich i<? found murine; purify by 
puttiR^flf it in a crucible i:i the lire till il smoiio uo more ; add 2'ozj, 
of in;inp;aut'se. 

Pai'Kk for PnoTOORAPnivn — Wasli the paper with a solution of 
nitrate of silver, G gruiii^j ; distilled water, S oz. , dry the paper.und 
wash it with iodide of potassiuui, 5 {grains ; distilleil water, i oz ; 
di'j with gentle heat; rejieat the wasli with the silver solutimr; and 
when dry, the j)aper is ready for use The sensitive surface is an 
iodide for silver, and is easily afiected by lip^lit. 

Colored Potteiis' Gl\zinos. — \i'/ti(i' . jjrejiare an intimate nux- 
tare of 4 parts of massic- t, 2 of tin ashes, 3 fiacrrnents of crystal 
glass, and ^ part of sea salt. The mixture is suffered to melt in 
earthenware vessels, when the liquid flux may be used yellow 
take eipial parts of massicot, red lead and suljihuret of antimony, 
calcine the mixture, and ruhice it an^aiii to powder, add theii 2 parts 
of pure sand, aud 1^ jiarts of salt ; melt tiie whole, (Jrcen , 2 parts 
of saud, 3 parts massicot, 1 part of salt aud copper scales, accord- 
ing to the shade to be produced : melt and use. Vio/el ; 1 part mas- 
Bicot, 3 parts saud, 1 of siuuU, J jiart of black oxide of maupanese, 
melt, JJlue: whito saud aud massicot, erpuil parts; blue smalt, j 
part; melt. Bhick; black oxide of manganese, 2 parts; siiKdt, . 
part; burned quartz, 1 part; massicot, Ij parts; melt Jirown. 
green hotlle gla-s, I jiart ; manganese, 1 part ; lead, 2 parts ; melt. 

To PiiiNT A I'lCTUUE FiioM THK pRiNT Itself. — The page or pic- 
ture 13 soaked in a solution, lirst of potassa, and then of tartaric 
acid. This produces a perfect didiision of crystals of bitartarate 
of potassa through the texture ot the imprinted part of the paper 
As this salt resists oil, the ink roller may now be passed over the 
surface, without transferring any part of its contents except to the 
Drinted jnirt. 

To Ci-KAN Old Oil-Paintings.— Dissolve a small quantity of salt 
in stale urine ; dij) n wooden ch)th m the mixture, aud rub the 
paiutiagi over with it till they are clean; ih.eii wash tlieni willp, 
sponge and clean water; dry them gradually, aud rub them over 
with a clean cloth. Siiould tiie dirt not be easily removed by the 
above pre[)aration, add a siuali quuutity of soft soap. Be very care- 
ful not to rub the paintings too hard. 

To Renew Olo Oil-I'aintinos.— The blackened lights of old pic- 
tures may be instantly restored to their original hue by touehing 
them withdeutoxide of hydrogtui diluted with six or eight times its 
weight of water The i)art must be afterwards washed with a 
clean sponge and water. 

Cast Engravinos. — Take the engraved plate yon wish to copy, 
and arrange a sujiport of suitable materials round it : then pour on 
it the following alloy in a state of perfect fusion ; tin, 1 part ; lead. 
04 parts ; antimony, 12 j)arts. These *' cast pi ites" maybe worked 
off on a common printing press, and offer a ready mode of procur- 
ing cheap copies of the works of our celebrated artists. 

Mauic Pai'kr. — Take lard oil, or sweet oil, mixed to the consist- 
ence of cream, with cither of the follouMug paints, the color ot 
which IS desired: Pru>s,ar blue, I iinpbbud?, Venetian red, er 
chrome green, either of which should be rubbed with a knife (Ui ft 
plate or stone until aciooth. Use vather thin bat firm paper ; put 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 137 



on with a sponpe, nnd wipe off as dry as convenient ; then lay 
tliiiii bi'iwci'ii luK'oluivil piijicr, or between newspapers, and presa 
bv layiiifj hooks or some oilier flat siihstance upon Ibf ^ until the 
suriihis oil IS absorbed, wben it is rea<ly for use. 

To Makk Gkindstones khom Common Sand.— River sand, <»r lbs ; 
shellac, 10 parts ; powdered glass, 2 parts ; melt in an ir^a pot, 
ami cast into moulds. 

To Cast Fiouhes in imitation of Ivory. — Make isinglass and 
brandy into a paste, witb ]iowdered egg-shells very finely ground 
Yon may give it what color you clioose; hut cast it warm into 
yonr mould which you previously oil over ; leave the figure in the 
mould till dry. and you will hnd on taking it out that it bears a 
very string resemblance to ivory. 

To TAKK A PlASTEK OP pAlMS CaST FHOM A PERSON'S FaCB. — 

The person must lie on his back, and his hair be tied behind ; into 
each nostril put a conical piece of i»aper, open at each end, to allow 
ol breathing The face is to be liglitly oiled over, and the plaster, 
being projierly prepared, is to be poured over the face, taking 
jiiuticular care that the eyes are shut, till it is a quarter of an inch 
thick, lu a few minutes the plaster may be removed In this a 
nuiuld IS to be formed, from which a second cast is to be taken that 
will furpish casts exactly lil«e the original. 

To ATiACii Glass or Metal LErxEiiS to Plate Glass. — Copal 
varnijh, 15 parts ; drying oil. 5 parts ; turjientine, 3 parts ; oil of tur- 
lieniine, 2 parts ; liquified glue^ 6 parts Melt in a water bath, and 
add 10 jiarts of slacked lime. 

TuRXEii's Cement — Bees' wax 1 oz. ; resin; J oz ; pitch, J oz. ; 
melt, andftir in fine brick dust. 

Bank Note Glue,— Dissolve 1 lb. of fine glue or gelatine m water; 
evaporate it till most of the water la expelled; add ^ lb. of brown 
sugar, and pour it into moulds. 

Ckment for Electrical .Machines and Galvanic Troughs. — 
Melt together ."ilbs of resin and 1 lb. of bees-wax, and stir in 1 lb 
■A red ociire (highly dried and still warm) and 4 oz. of plaster of 
Pans, continuing the heat a little above 211!® , and stirring con- 
str ntly till all frothing ceases, or (for troughs) rosin, 6 lbs. ; dried 
iv'd ochre. 1 lb , calcined plaster of Pans, 4 lb., linseed oil, i lb. 

HvDUAULic Cement.— Powdered clay, 3 lbs. ; oxide of iron, lib.; 
f.n boiled til to form a stflf paste 

E.NoiNEERS Cement. — Equal parts of red and white lead, with 
drying oil. spread on tow or canvas An admirable composition 
for -.miting large stones m cisterns. 

oroNE Cement —River sand, 20 parts ; litharge, 2 parts ; quick- 
lime, 1 part : mix with linseed oil. 

Best Cement for Aquaria — It is the same as that used in con- 
structing the tanks of the Zoological Gardens, London. One part. 
by measure, say a gill of litharge ; 1 gill of plaster of Paris : 1 gill 
of dry, wl'.ite sand : i a gill of finely powdered resin. Siit, and 
keep corked tight until required for use, when it is to be made into 
a jiiitty 1,7 mixing in boiled oil (linseed) wiih alitile p.-xtent drier 
added NVver use it after il 1ms b(>en mixed (that is, with the oil) 
ovi r f.ltccn lioiir.s This cement can be used for marine as well as 
lust, wuiet uquaria us it resists the action of salt water. Th« 






m 



I 



pp 


WM 




1 



138 CxVBINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



i ■ 



tank can be used imnicliately, but it is best to.giva U three or 
four hours to dry. 

Common 1'asik.— To n tablcspoonful of Hour add gradually \ 
pt. of cold Wilier, and inbc till quite smooth ; add a })iucli of 
powdered alum, some add a small piiicii of powdered rosin, and 
boil for a few miuules, stirring coustautiy. The addition of a 
little brown sugar and a few gruius of corrosive t ublimale, will 
preserve it for years. 

Fou Lutb;. or cement for closing joints of apparr.tus, mix Paris 
plaster with water to a soft jiiisle, and ai)ply it hamediately. It 
bears nearly- a red heat. To render it impervious, rvib it over with 
wax iiud oil. 

Roman Ckment.— Slacked lime, 1 bush., green copperas, 3J lbs., 
fine gravel sand, ^ bush. Dissolve tlie copperas iu hot water, ana 
mix all logctliL-r U) the jirupor consistency for use; use the sam« 
day it is mixc :i,aud keep stirriug it continually with a stick while 
in use. 

Vicat's Hybuaulic Cement is prepared by stirring into water 
a mixture of 4 parts chalk and 1 {)art clay ; mix with a vertical 
Avheel in a cireuhir trough, letting it run out in a large receiver. 
A dejtosit soon takes place which is formed into small brick?, 
which, after bt-ing dried in the sun, are moderately calcined. It 
enhirges about 'j wlien mixt-d with water. 

GiiUK. - Powdered chalk added to common glue i5trengthen3 it. 
A glue which will resist tiie action of water is made by boiling 1 
lb. of glue in 2 qts. of skimmed milk. 

CiiicAP Wateui'hoop Ulue.— Melt common glue with the smallest 
possible qt'.aitity of water; add, by degrees, linseed oil,* rendered 
drying by boiling it with litharge. While tlie (>ii is bei.igadded, the 
ingredients must be well stirred, to inci)ri)orate them ttioroughly. 

Fi:e and WATEitruooi)' Glik. — .Mix a haudfid of (luick-liiiie with 
4 oz. of linseed oil ; thoroughly lixiviate tiie mixture; boil it to a 
good tiiickness, and spread it on tin plates ii tiie sliade : it will 
become very hard, but can be dissolved over a lire, like common 
glue, and is then tit for use. 

PuEPAiiKD Lii^uiu Glue. — Take of best white glue, 10 oz.; whitc- 
leadj dr}', 4 oz. ; rain-water, 2 pis. ; alcohul, 4 oz. With constant 
stirring, dissolve the glue and lead iu the water, by means of a 
water-bath. 'Vild the ale jIioI, and continue tiie heat for a few 
minutes. Lastly, pour into bottles, wliile it ij still hot. 

Mastio CsME.vr Kou CovEuixo THE Fronts of Houses. — Fifty parts. 
l»y measure, of clean dry sand, 50 of limesttnie (not burned) reduced 
to grains like sand, or marble dust, and 10 parts of red lead, mixed 
wit!i as much boiled linseed od as will make it .slightly moist. The 
bricks, to receive it, sliotdd be covered with three coats of boiled 
oil, laid on wiiii abrusli, and suffered to dry before the mastic is put 
on. It is laid on with a trowel lik ■ plaster, but it is not so moist. 
It becomes hard as stone iu a few months. Care must be exercisea 
not to use too much oil. 

Cement for Tile-Roofs. — Equal parts of whiting and dry sand, 
and 25 per cent, oflitharge, made into theconsiUe icy of iiutty 'ivilli 
lin.^ecd oil. It is not liable to crack when cold, nor luel'i, likt' 
coal-tar and asphalt, with the heat of the sua 



CABINETMAKERS, PAINTERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 139 



or I Okmbnt for Outsidb of Brick Walls. — Cement for the ontsido 
of Ijiiclc wallrf, to iniitato stone, is made of clean sand, 90 parts: 
litluu>,'c, 5 parts ; jjlaster of Pari-', 5 parts ; moistened with noiled 
liiisted oil. The bricks should receive two or three coats of oil be- 
fore the cement is applied. 

Excellent Cheap Uoopino.— SniNOLES SopEnsBOBD. — Have your 
roof stiff, rafters made of siulf li by 8 inclies, well supported and 
6 feet apart, with ribs I inch by 2 inches, set edgeways, well nailed 
to the rafters, about 18 inclies apart. Tne boards may be thin, but 
must bo well stiasoned, and nailed close together ; this done, lay 
down at d cover the roof with thin, soft, spongy straw paper used 
in making paper-boxes^ which conies in rolls, and comes very low. 
Lay in courses up ana down the roof, and lap over, nailing down 
with common No. 6 tacks, with leather under the heads like carpet- 
tacks, TI..n spread on several coatings of the following composi- 
tion, |ireviously boiled, stirred, and mixed together: good clean tar, 
8 gals. ; Roman cement, 2 gals, (or in its place very hne, clean sand 
may be used) ; resin, 5 lbs. ; tullow, 3 lbs. ; apply hot ; and let a 
Laud follow, and sift on sharp grit sand, pressing it into the tar 
conipositiun. If wished fire-proof\ go over the above with the fol- 
lowing prfparalion : slake stone lime under cover with hot water 
till it falls into a fine powder, sift and mix 6 qts. of this with 1 qt. 
salt, add 2 gals, water, boil and skim. To 5 gals, of this add 1 Id. 
of alum, and Ij lb. of coiii)cras, slowly, while boiling, IJ lbs. 
potash, and 4 qts. of clean, sharp sand, and any coloring desired. 
Apply a thick coat with a brush, and you have a roof which no 
lire can injure from the outside. 

VVaiku Lime at fifty Cents peu Barrel. — Fine, clean sand, 100 
lbs. : quick-lime in powder, 28 lbs. ; bone ashes, 14 lbs. ; for use, 
beat u|> with water, and use as quick as possible. 

Cemi:nt f;)K Seams in Roofs. — Take equal quantities of white 
lead and white sand, and as much oil us will make it into the consist- 
ence of putty. It will in a few weeks become as hard iis stone. 

To MAKE UooK Plates. — Cut your glass the right size, and 
make it perfectly clean with alcohol or soap; then cut a strip of 
tia-foil sulliciently long and wide for the nume, and with a piece 
of ivury or other burnisher rub it lengihwise to make it smooth ; 
now wet the glass with the tongue (as saliva is the best sticking 
sul)stam!e), or if the glass is very large, use a weak solution of 
gum arable, or the white of an egg in half a pint of water, and lay 
on the foil, rubbing it down to the glass with a bit of cloth, then 
al-io with the burnisher; the more it is burnished the better will 
it look ; now mark the width on the foil which is to be the height 
of the letter, and jvat on a straight edge, and hold it firmly to the 
foil, and with a sliarj) knife cut the foil, and take off the superflu- 
ous edges ; then either layout the letters on the back of the foil 
{?o they shall read correctly on the front) by your own judgment,, 
or by means of pattern letters, which can oe purchased for thai 
purpose; cut with the knife, carefully holding down the pattern 
or straight ''dge, whichever jou use ; then rub down the edge of 
all \h". letters with the back of the knife, or edge of the burnisher, 
which jTPVo its the black paint or japan, v/hich yon next put over 
the back of the plate, from getting under the foil; having put a 



W 



'^mWM 






140 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



i 



I 






boffl 



er nronnrt tlio whole 
Tlie jupiin is imulc by 



line niiovo rtirl one boloTv the nnmo, or n 
plate or not, n3 you bargain f'»r tin' job. 

(Ii>isr,lviii}r nsjilirtltiiin in just ciiniio'li tiirpontino to cut it ; npply 
with a brush, aa otlicr paint, ovor lh<' back of the letters, and over 
the irlass forniinf; a background. Tiii.s is used on the iron plate 
of tlie frame also, putting it on when the ])late is a liltle hot, 
pnd na soon as it cools, it is dry. A little lampblack may bo 
rubbed into it if yoxi desire it any blacker than it is without it. 

Soluble Glass. — Powdered quartz, 15 parts ; potash, 10 jiartsj 
ch.ircoal, 1 part; those are melted together, worked in ooM water, 
j'nd then boiled with 5 parts water, iu which they entirely dissolve. 
It is then applied to wood-work, or any other required substances. 

To nE.NDKR Wood ISDEHTRVCTlXtLK. — If ohfuTls'a ProrcHS. This 

seems to be a process of inestimable value, and de.-^finod tr> 
produce very mmnrtant results. The api;aratus u'ed consists of a 
retort or stiil, which can be made of any size or form, in which 
resin, coal tar, or other oleaginous substances, together witii water, 
are placed in order to subj'Ct them to the aotioi of the heat. Fire 
being applied beneath the retort containing th<' coal tar, &c., oleagi- 
nous vapiT commences to rise, and pass out through a connecting 
pipe into a larcre Jron tank or chnmbcr (which can al;?o be built of 
any size), containi ig the timber, &c , to be operated upon. The 
he;it acts at once on the wood, causing the sap to flow from every 
))ore. whicli. rising in the form of steam, condenses on the body 
of the en inibi'i', and discharges through an escape pipe in the 
lower part. In this jT' eesg a temperature of 212" to 2.')0" Fnlir 
is sullicient to remove the surface moisture from the wood ; hut 
after th'S the temperature should be raised to ."^OO"^ or more, in 
order to completely saturate and permeate the body of the wood 
with the ant'septic vapors and heavier products of the distillation. 
The hot vapor coagulates the albumen of the wood, and opens 
the pores, so that a b\rge portion of the oily product or creosote is 
admitted ; the contraction resulting from the cooling procei?s 'ler- 
metically seals them, and decay seems to be almost impossible. 
There is a man-hole in the retort, used to change or clean out the 
contents; and the wood chamber is fiirnislied with doors made 
perfectly tight. The whole operation is completed in less than one 
liour, rendering the wood proof against rot, parasites, and the 
attacks of the tercdn nuvihi? or naval worm. 

Gkkman Stonr CoATixo FOR Wood. — Chalk, 40 parts; rosin, .W 
parts; lin«eod oil, 4 j>arfs ; melt togettier. To this add 1 part of 
oxide of copper, afi'^rwards 1 part of sulphuric acid ; add this last 
carefully ; apply virilu a brush 



.1 



3' 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, GILDERS, &c., 

RECEIPT?. 

Ov Watcm ('r,KA\iN-o.— It i= hardly necessnry to say that great 
raiitidn must be observed in taking the watch down; thnt is. in 
separating its parts. If you are new at the business think before 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERA, *0 , RECEIPTS. 141 



you net, find thon net slowly. Take ofl the hands carefully, so as 
nut to IhihI tliu aliMui-ir nivohi ii[){jn whicli tliey work; this •will 
be the lirsl atcp. Scidnd, luostti and lift iLo nioveuitnt from the 
ciii'i.'. Tliii'Ij rcnujvfc Uiu dial aud dinl wheels. Fourth, let 
down till' iiiiiiiisi»ring by placing your bench key upon the arbor, 
(,r "wiiidiiii,'' iHist,' iind turning as though you were going to 
wind tlie wjitcii until the click rests lightlv upon the ratcTict; 
till 11 wiihyour Bcrcw-driver press the point of the click away from 
the ttiili, niid cade down the springs Fifth, draw the screws 
(or piiin) and remove the bridges ot the train, or the upper jdate, 
lift the c:is(' limy bo. ^'ixtli, take out the balance. Great care 
must lie ( l).-erved in this, or you will injure the hair-spring. The 
.■iuid or little stiuare [lost into which the hair-spring is fastened mny 
hi' iriiiiived fnim the bridge or plate of most modern watches, 
witiiDiit uiikcying the spring, by slipping a thin instrument, as 
ilif eiigo of »i knife blade, under the corner of it and prying 
i,|i\viini. This will save you a considerable amount of trouble, aa 
\iiu will not have the hair-spnng to adjust when you reset the 
biiliiiiCP. 

If the watch upon which yoi propose to work has an upper 
])liiti', H-; nil American or an Liiglirih lever for instance, loo.aen the 
lever bt fure you have entirely separated the plates, otherwise it 
will liuii'^ and most likely be broken. 

llavii.^' tlie iii.icliine now down, brush the dust awny from its dif- 
fircut parLs and suliject them to a careful examination with your 
cyr-glass. AsHiire yourself that the teeth of the wheels and leaves of 
the piniuiia are all pi rfect and smooth; that the pivots are all 
Btraij^ht, round, and highly polished ; that the holes ttirough which 
tlicy are to work are not loo large, aud have not become oval in 
sliape ; that every jewel is smooth and perfectly sound ; and that 
none of tlum are loo.^e in tlieir settings. See also that the 
escapciiiciit is not too deep or too shallow ; that the lever or cylin- 
der is perfect: that all the wheels have sufficient jday to avoid 
friclion, iiut not enough to derange their coming together pro- 
perly; that none of them work against the pillar-plate ; that the 
balance t'lrns horizontally and does not rub; that the hair-spring 
is not bent or wrongly set so that the coils rub on each other, on 
the jilaie, or on the balance; in short, that everything about tho 
wliole iiioveinent is just as reason would teach you it should be. 
If you find it otherwise, proceed to repair m accordance with a 
carefully weighed judgment and the processes given in this chap- 
ter, alter which, clean ; if not, the watch only needs to be cleaned, 
and, therefore, you may go ahead with your work at once. 

To Clkan.— Many watchmakers wet the pillar plates and bridges 
with saliva, and tlien, dipping the brush into pulverized chalk or 
Spanish whiting, rub vigorously until they appear bright. This is 
not a good |>'an, as it tends to remove the jilating and roughen 
t'lP ]iartH, and the chalk gets into the holes and damages them, or 
stick -^ around the edges of the wheel-beds. The best process is to 
hinrdy blow your breath upon the plato or bridge to be cleaned, 
and then to use your brush with a little prepared chalk. (Sec 
r'-'cipe for preparing it.) The wheels and bridgeg should be laid 
between the thumb aud finger in a piece of soft paper while under- 






hm 









mil h* 



142 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



] 



going the process, otherwise the oil from the skin will prevent 
their becoming clean. The pinions may be cleaned by sinking 
thera several times into a piece of pith, and the holes by turning a 
nicely shaped piece of pivot wood into them, first dry, and after- 
wards oiled a very little with watch oil When the holes pass 
through jewels", you must work gently to avoid breaking iliom. 

The oiling above named is iall the watch will need A great 
fault with many watchmakers lies in their use of too much o\]. 

The " Chkmical Process."— Some Avatchmakers employ what 
they call the " Chemical Process '' to clean and remove discolora' 
iion from watch movements. It is as follows : — 

Remove tlie screws and other steel parts ; then dampen with a 
solution of oxalic acid and water Let it remain a few moincnts. 
after which immerse in a solution made of one- fourth pound 
cyanuret potassa to one gallon rain water. Lei, remain about live 
minutes, and then rinse well with clean water, after whiciijou 
may dry 'n sawdust, or with a brush and prepared chalk, as suits 
your convenience. This gives the work an excellent appearance. 

To PRKPARE CnAtK FOR Cleani.nq — Pulvcrizc your cli.ilk 
thoroughly, and then mix it witli clear rain water in the proiior- 
tion of two pounds to the gallon Stir well, and then let stand 
about two minuto.'i. In tins time the gritty matter will have set- 
tled to the bottom. Pour the water into another vessel, slowly so 
aa not to stir up the settlings Let stand until entirely settled, 
and then pour off as before. The settlings in the second vessel 
will be your prepared clialk, ready tor use as soon as dried 

Spanish whiting, treated in the j;ime way, makes a very good 
cleaning or polishing powder. So-nc; « peratives add a little jewel- 
ler's rouge, and we think it an i nprovcmenl ; ii, gives the pow- 
der a nic color at least, and morcfore adds to its im|iorta ce in 
the eyes of the unii.itiated. In cas:.^ where a sha>'])er j)olisliing 
powder is required, :t may be prepared in the same way from rot- 
ten stone. 

Pivot Wood. — Watchmakers usually buy this article of wa^cli- 
material dealers. A small shrub known as Indian arrow-wood, to 
bo met with in the northern and western states, makes an e.xcol- 
lent pivot wood. It must be cut when the sap is down, and split 
into quarters so as to throw the pith outside of ihe rod. 

PirH FOR Clkanin'o. — The stalk of the ^i^mmon mullen (iflTonls 
the best pith for cleaning pinions W^inter, when the stalk is dry, 
is the time to gather it. Some use cork instead of pith, but it is 
inferior. 

To Pivot. — When you find a pivot broken, you will hardly be at 
a lojg to understand that the easiest mode of repairing the damage 
is to drill into the end of the pinion or staff, as the case may be, 
and having inserted anew pivot, turn it down to the proper pro- 
portions. This ia by no means a diflicult thing when the piece to 
be drilled is not too hard, or when the tera[>er may bo slightly 
dravrn without injury to the other parts of the article. 

To TELL wiTBS TiTE Leter IS OF PROPER Lenoth. — You may 
rtJadilyleatn whether or not a lover is of proper length, by m^nsur- 
ing from the ^mtd point to the pallot staff, and than comparinff 
with the roUcr or fuby-pin table ; tho .liuiuoter of ibo table should 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, 40., REClIIPTS. 143 



nlwftvs be just half the leogth measured on the lever. The rule 
will witik both wnys, and nmy be useful in cases where a new ruby- 
i.iii tab! • liii-i i(» be supplied. 

To ciiAMiE Di:i>TH OK Leveh Escapement. — If you are operating 
oil A tint' WiiU'li, the best jiianis to put a new staff into the luver, 
cuttiiif,' its pivots a little to one side, just as far as you desire to 
cbaut;e the escapement Common watches will not, of course, justify 
so much trouble. The usual process iti their case is to knock out 
the stiiH', and with a small file cut the hole oblong in a direction 
opposite to that in which you desire to move your pallets ; then 
replace the stuff, wedge it to the required position, and secure by 
soft soldering. 

In instances where tlw staff is put in with a screw, you will have 
to proceed differently. Take out the staff, prize the pallets from 
the lever, file the ]iin holes to slant in tne direction you would 
move the pallets, without changing their size on the other side of 
the lever. Connect the pieces as they were before, and, with the 
lever resting on some solid substanco, you may strike lightly with 
your liMinnu'r until the bending of the pins will allow the pallets 
to I'tiss into position. 

To TKM- WHEN THE LevER PALLETS ARE OP PROPER SiZE. — The 

cleiir sinice between the pallets should correspond with the outside 
measure, oa the points, of three teeth of the scape wheel The 
usual mode ot measuring for new pallets is to set the wheel as close 
as po.ssible to free itself when in motion You can arrange it in 
your depthing tool, after which a measurement between the pivot 
holes ot the two pieces, on the pillar plate, will show you exactly 
what id required. 

To i.E.NCTUKN Levers of Anchor-escapsment Watches wit»- 
ofT FTammeuino or Soldkrino.— Cut square across with a screw- 
head file, 11 little back from the point above the fork, and, when 
you have thiw cut into it to a sidficient depth, bend forward 
the (li'sired distance the piece thus partially detached. In the 
eyeul of the i)iece snappii u: off while bending— which, however, 
rarely happens — lile down the point level with the fork, and insert 
a pill, Kiiglish lever style. 

To TK.M1-EII Case and other Sprinos of Watches. — Draw the 
temper from the spring, and lit it ])roperIy in its place in the 
watch; then take It out and temper it hard in rain-water (the ad- 
dition of a little table-salt to the water will be an improvement); 
after which place it in a small she.eV-iron ladle or cup. and barely 
cover it with linseed-oil ; then hold the ladle over a lighted lamp 
until the oil ignites ; let it burn until the oil is nearly, not (j[uite 
consumed; then re-cover with oil and bum down as betore; 
and so a third time; at the end of which, plunge it again into 
water Main and hair-springs may, in like inunner, be tempered 
by the s:uiie process; first draw the temper, and properly coil and 
clatnp to keep in position, and then proceed the same as with 
ease-springs. 

To MAKE Rkd Watch Hanph.— 1 oz. carmine,! oz.TOtiriato of 
silvir, ^ o7,. tinner's japan ; mix together in an earthen -vessel, 
and iiold over ;i spirit-lanij) uiitd formed into a p;astc. _ .Ap))ly 
this lu the watch hand, and then lay it on aoopjper plRte,imco- 






m 



ii 



■ 't.' 



'i 






r* ^ ■ 



lill 





m 


m^!' 


:!^;r !. ^! 


^ ^* 




1 


pi. 


'■■i 


^^'" 




m 


p^},,i 


i 


1 

i 


If 


M| 


K 






. -li. 



144 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 

Bide up, and heat the plate sufficiently to produce the coloi 
desired. 

To Drill into Hard Steel.— Make your drill oval in form, instead 
of the usual pointed t-haixj, and temi)er as hard as it will bear witli- 
oiit breaking; then roughen the surface where you desire to drill 
with a little diluted muriatic acid, and, instead of oil, use turpen- 
tine or kerosene, in which a little gum camphor has been dissolved, 
with your drill. In openkting, keep the pressure on your drill 
firm and steady ; and if the Dottom of the hole should chance 
to become burnished,, so that the drill will not act, as sometimes 
happens, again rougben with diluted acid as before : then clean 
out the nole carefully, and proceed again. 

To Case-harden Iron. — If you desire to harden to any consido 
able depth, put the article into a crucible with cyanide of potash, 
cover over and heat altogether, then plunge into water. This 
process will harden perfectly to the depth of one or two inches. 

To Put Teeth in Watch or Clock Wheels without Dovb- 
TAiLiNQ or Soldsrino.— Drill a hole somewhat wider than the 
tooth, square through the plate, a little below the base of the 
tooth ; cut from the edge of the wheel square down to the hole 
alreaay drilled ; then tlatten a piece of wire so as to fit snugly 
into the cut of the saw, and with a light hammer form a head 
on it like the head of a pin. When thus prepared, press the 
wire or pin into position in the wheel, the head filling the hole 
drille<? through the plate, and the end projecting out so as to 
form the tooth: then with a sharp pointed graver cut a small 
groove each side of the pin from the edge of the wheel down 
to the hole, and with a blow of your hammer spread the face 
of the pin so as to till the grooves just cut. Repeat the same 
operation on the other side of the wheel, and finish off in the 
usual way. The tooth will be found perfectly ri, eied in on 
every side, and as strong as the origmal one, w^iile in appear- 
ance it will be equal to the best dovetailing. 

To tighten a Cannon Pinion on the Centre Arbor wnsu 
TOO LOOSE. — Grasp the arbor lightly with a pair of cutting nip- 
pers, and, by a single turn of tue nippers around the arbor, cut 
or raise a small thread thereon. 

To Frost Watch Movements,— Sink that part of the article 
to be frosted for a short time in a compound of nitric acid, 
muriatic acid and table salt, one ounce of each. On removing 
from the acid, place it in a shallow vessel containing enough 
eour beer to merely cover it, then with a fine scratch brush 
Bcour thoroughly, let'ing it remain under the beer during the 
operati(jn. Next wash off, first in pure water and then in alcohol. 
Gild or silver in accordance with any recipe in tho plating 
dopartment. 

Rule for determinino thh correct Diamhter ok a Pinion b7 
MEAfcURiNO Teeth ov the Whbbl that matcue.s into it. — The term 
FULL, (IS us<'d below, iudicatc.s full ineasun' from out-sido to <)ut.>iiio 
of the tieth named, and the term centhk, tlu; inensun! from ceiilro 
of one tooth to centre of the other tooth liiuned, inclusive. 

For diameter of a pinio'i of 15 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
shade less than 6 teeth of tho wheel, /uU 



WATCHMAKERS JEWELLERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 145 



For diameter of a pinion of 14 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
sliiule hd:^ lima G teeth of tin' whei-l, cmtm. 

For diaiiuior of a piniou of 12 leaves measure, with calipers, 5 
teeth of the wheol, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 10 leaves measure, with calipers, 4 
teeth of the wheel, /«//. 

For diameter of a pinion of 9 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
httlc les? than 4 teeth of the wheel, full. 

For djanieler of a pinion of 8 leaves measure, with cahpers, a 
Uttle less than 4 teeth of the wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 7 leaves measure, with calipers, a 
littl« less than 3 teeth of the wheel, full. 

For diameter of a ])inioa of 6 leaves measure, with calipers, 3 
teeth ot the wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 5 leaves measure, with calipers, 3 
teeth of tlie wheel, centre. 

For diameter of a pinion of 4 leaves measure, with calipers, one 
half of one space over 2 teeth of the wl'?el,/M^^. 

As II general rule, pinions that lead, as in the hour wheel, should 
be somewhat larger than those that drive, and pinions or clocks 
sliouhl generally be somewhat larger proportionally than those of 
watches. 

To FoLigii Wheels pbrfectly without injury. — Take a flat 
burnishing file, wnrm it over a spirit lamp, and coat it lightly with 
bees'- wax. When cold^ wipe off as much of the wax as can bd 
readily removed, and with your file thus prepared, polish the wheel, 
resting the wheel while polishing on a piece of cork. The finish 
produced will be quite equal to the finest buflF polish, while there 
will be no clogging, and the edges of the arms and teeth will 
remain perfectly square. 

Rules for nsTERMiNiNO thb cobhect Length of the Lever, sizb 
OP Ruby-Pin Table, size of the Pallets, and depth of Escapement 
OK Levku VVatchks. — A lever, from the guard point to the pallet 
staff, should correspond in length with twice the diameter of the 
ruby-pill table, and when a tsvbU* is accidentally lost, the correct size 
thereof may be known by measuring half the length of the lever 
between the points above named. For correct size of pallet, the 
char space between the pallets should correspond with tne outside 
meusnre on the points of three teeth of the escapement wheel. 
Tlie only rule that can be given, without the use or diagrams, for 
correct depth of the escapements, is to set it close as it will bear, 
and still free itself perfectly when in motion. This may be done 
by fust placing the escapement in your depthing tool, and then 
setting it to the correct depth. Then by measuring the distance 
between the pivots of the lever staff and escapement wheel, as 
n(tw set, and the corresponding pivot holes in the watch, you 
determine correctly how much the depth of the escapement 
requires to be altered. 

To KEMovE KusT KuoM TuoN Oil Stkel, lic. — Por Cleaning pur- 
'0^< ':^, k,(i kerosene oil or luiizine ;iro probali!*^ the best things 
noun, Wiion articles have become pitted by rust, however, these 
can of course, only bo removed by mechanical means, such as 
scouring with flue powder, or flour of emery and oil, or with very 

K 



I 



WW 






Hfi, 



; I- 






146 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

fine emery paper. To preveDt steel from rusting, rub it with a mix- 
ture of lime and oil. or with mercurial omtment, either ot which 
will b3 found valuaole. 

To Put Watches in Beat.— If a cylinder escapement, or a 
detached lerer^ put the balance into a position, then turn the regu- 
lator so that it will point directly to the pivot-hole of the pallet 
staff, if a lever, or of the scape-wheel, if a cylinder. Then lift out 
the balance with its bridge or clock, turn it over and set the 
ruby-pin directly in line with the regulator, or the square cut of 
the cylinder at right angles with it. Your watch will then be iu 
perfect beat. 

In case of an American or an English lever, when the regulator 
is placed upon the plate, you will have to proceed differently. 
Fix the balance into its place, cut off the connection of the train, 
if the mainspring is not entirely down, by slipping a line broach 
into one of the wheels, look between the i)lates and nscertam 
how the lever stands. If the end fartliest from the bahuice is 
equidistant between the two brass pins, it is all right; if not, 
change the hair-apring till it becomes so. 

If dealing with a duplex watch, you must see that the roller 
notch, when the balance is at rest, is exactly between the locking 
tooth and the line of centre ; that is, a li!ie drawn from the centre 
of the roller to the centre of the scape-wheel Tlie balance must 
start from its rest and move through an arc of about ten degiees 
before bringing the locking tooth into action. 

To Prbvgnt a Chain Running off tub Fusee. — In the first 
place, you must look and aocerUiin the cause of the difficulty if 
it results from the chain being too large, the only reniedy is a 
new chain. If it is not too large, and yet runs oflwiiliout any appa- 
rent cause, change it end for end — that will generally make it go 
all right. In cases where the channel iu tlie fusee has been 
damaged ami is rough, you will be under the necessity of dressing 
it over with a file the proper size and shape. Sometimes you find 
the chain naturally inclined to Avork away from the body of liie 
fusee. The best way to remedy a difficulty of this kin;l is to file off 
a very little from the outer lower edge of the chain the entire 
length; this, as you can see, will iiiclnie it to work on insteiui of 
off. Some workmen, when they have a bad case and a common 
watch, change the standing of the fusee so as to cause the winding 
end of its arbor to incline a little from tlie barrel This, of course, 
cannot do otherwise than make the chain run to its place 

To Weaken tubHair-Si'Iunq. — This is often effected by grinding 
the spring down. You remove the spring from the collet, and 
place it upon a piece r{ pivot wood cut to lit the centre coil A 
piece of soft steel wire, flattened so as to pass freely between the 
ooils, and armed with a little pulveri7A'U oil-stone and oil, will 
serve as your grinder, and with it you may soon reduce the 
strength of the spring. Your operations \v;ll, of course, be coiifin'd 
to the ceiUre coil, for no other part of the spring will rest .suffi- 
ci(!nlly against the wood toeniible you to grind it, but this will 
generally suHice. The effv'ct will bo more rapid than one wihiM 
suppose, therefore it will .-^taml you ni haii<l to be careful, oi you 
may get the spring too weak before you suspect it, 



a mix- 
which 

|t. or a 
le regu. 
|e pallet 

1 lift out 

set the 

cut of 

en be in 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, 4C., B£GE*IPTS 146a 
LIST OF TRAINS OF WATCHES. 

SnOWlNO THE NUMn'R OF TJIKTH IN THE WnKELS, LKAVE8 IN THB 
rlNIOXS BKAT8 IN A MINUTE, AND TIME THB FOUBTU 
WUBUL REVOLVES IN. 



Trains, for Seven Teeth 1-t 


the Escapement IVheel. 


No. <if 




Lcnros 




Leaves 


Teeth 
In the 
Eicape- 


Lubvus 
in the 




lio. of 
duconda 


Teeth 


TePth In 


iM»d 


Teeth li. 


in 4th 


£8oap»- 


No. of Be*t8 In 


the 4ta 


in till' 


U Whoul. 


Whoel 


4tb Wiieel 


Wheel 


mcnt 


one mlaute. 


Wheov 


Cratrc 
ffhoel. 




rinlou. 




i'lnion. 


Whoul. 


Wbocl 
Pinion. 




roTol- 
ve«ia. 


72 


G6 


6 


68 


6 


7 


6 


298- 


27 


66 


64 


6 


64 


6 


7 


6 


292+ 


81 


66 


64 


6 


63 


6 


7 


6 


287+ 


81 


6(3 


63 


6 


63 


6 


7 


6 


283— 


81 


60 


r.s 


6 


62 


6 


< 


6 


278+ 


81 


66 


«;:} 


6 


61 


6 


7 


P 


274- 


81 


66 


6;J 


'i 


60 


6 


t 


6 


269+ 


81 



Trains, for Nine Teeth Iti the Escapement Wheel. 



iV\ 


60 


6 


67 


6 


9 


6 


299+ 


34 


66 


60 


6 


64 


6 


9 


6 


297 


33 


68 


60 


6 


56 


6 


9 


6 


294 


34 


66 


60 


6 


6:3 


6 


9 


6 


291+ 


83 


68 


60 


6 


65 


6 


9 


6 


289— 


84 


66 


60 


6 


52 


6 


9 


6 


286 


33 


6i{ 


60 


6 


54 


6 


9 


6 


288 - 


84 


66 


6) 


6 


51 


6 


9 


6 


280-- 


U 


68 


60 


6 


53 


6 


9 


6 


278-- 


84 


66 


60 


6 


50 


6 


9 


6 


276 


8} 


68 


00 


6 


52 


6 


9 


6 


273 


31 



TraliiA, for Eleven Tooth In tho Escapement IVheel. 



60 

60 

60 

6( 

68 

60 

62 

68 

58 

69 

60 

60 

61 

63 

69 

60 

61 

66 

60 

62 

63 

68 

70 

70 

70 



60 


6 


5t 


6 


56 


6 


62 


6 


56 


6 


54 


6 


54 


6 


54 


6 


56 


6 


51 


6 


5( 


6 


55 


6 


55 


6 


55 


6 


54 


6 


54 


6 


54 


6 


51 


G 


60 


6 


54 


6 


54 


6 


48 


6 


70 


7 


70 


7 


00 


7 



49 

54 

52 

52 

63 

63 

bl 

64 

53 

53 

62 

51 

50 

48 

52 

51 

50 

54 

48 

52 

50 

56 

5G 

48 

4S 



6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
3 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 



11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

11 

U 

11 

11 



6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

8 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

6 

I 

G 

G 



300- 


— 


m 


297 


40 


230— 


80 


294- 


80 


292-- 
291-- 


40 


40 


290— 


3» 


287+ 


41 


287 


41 


286+ 


41 


28G 


40 


286— 


8!) 


286— 


89 


282- 


. 


88 


28H 


. 


41 


281- 


- 


40 


280- 


89 


277- 


- 


43 


293- 


- 


36 


295- 




89 


289- 


8^) 


287-- 


43 


293- 


38 


293-r 


36 


2{»H 


- 1 


86 



PFF 



m 



^^ 11 



■,ti 



1466 WATCHMAKER, JEWELLERS, AC, BEOEIPTB. 



No. of 
Tteth 
inthii 

%jOUtrc 


Teeth In 


Leaves 
In 3d 


Teeth in 


Lenvos 
in 4t)i 


Tootli 
in the 


Louvua 
in tho 
JCscupt- 


, Ho. of 

iSuoondi 

No. ot Beats In tho Uk 


3d Whuol. 


Whocl 


4th Wheel 


Wheel 


I'jSt'i'lp*'- 


inent 


onu JkUauto. 


Wlwd 


Wheel. 




I'iuion. 

6 




I'lulon. 


Wheel. 


Whwl 
rinlon. 




TMto. 


60 


70 


48 


7 


11 


6 


203+ 


86 


68 


50 


6 


66 


7 


11 


e 


287+ 


40 


63 


63 


6 


60 


7 


11 


6 


289- 


88 


80 


80 


8 


64 


8 


11 


8 


293+ 


88 


80 


80 


8 


56 


8 


11 


7 


293 -i 


. 


86 


80 


80 


8 


43 


8 


11 


6 


293 


. 


9C 


8L 


70 


8 


66 


7 


11 


7 


293- 


- 


86 


8C 


70 


8 


48 


7 


11 


6 


293- 


- 


34 


80 


60 


8 


48 





11 


6 


293- 


- 


86 


70 


80 


7 


56 


8 


11 


7 


293- 


- 


8J 


70 


80 


7 


48 


8 


11 


6 


293- 


- 


86 


60 


80 


6 


48 


8 


11 


6 


293 


. 


83 


84 


72 


8 


50 


8 


11 


6 


289— 


83 


84 


63 


8 


60 


7 


11 


6 


289— 


83 


84 


54 


8 


60 


6 


11 


6 


289- 


83 


68 


72 


6 


60 


8 


11 


6 


289- 


83 


68 


63 


6 


60 


7 


11 


6 


289- 


83 


84 


64 


8 


56 


8 


11 


6 


287- 


_ 


40 


81 


66 


8 


56 


7 


n 


6 


287- 


_ 


40 


84 


48 


8 


66 


6 


11 


6 


287- 


_ 


40 


63 


64 


6 


60 


8 


11 


6 


287- 


. 


40 


63 


56 


6 


66 


7 


n 


6 


287- 


- 


40 



Trains, for Tltirteen Tcotli In tUo Escapement Wheel. 



64 
66 
69 
60 
64 
66 
66 
67 
64 
64 
60 
61 
66 
67 
62 
63 
62 
65 
66 
66 
M 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
62 
63 
€3 
64 
72 
74 



63 





52 


C 


13 


6 


53 


6 


50 


6 


13 


6 


51 


6 


49 


6 


13 


6 


51 


6 


48 


i5 


13 


6 


63 


6 


51 


6 


13 


6 


63 


6 


49 


6 


13 


6 


64 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


53 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


62 


6 


51 


6 


13 


6 


43 


6 


50 


6 


13 


6 


61 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


62 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


61 


6 


49 


6 ■ 


13 


6 


61 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


52 


6 


51 


6 


13 


6 


52 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


62 


8 


62 


6 


13 


6 


51 


6 


61 


6 


13 


6 


50 


6 


61 


6 


13 


6 


62 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


62 


6 


60 


6 


13 


6 


48 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


60 


6 


48 


6 


13 


6 


64 


6 


60 


8 


13 


6 


68 


7 


60 


7 


13 


6 


60 


8 


54 


6 


13 





66 


7 


66 


7 


13 


6 


52 


7 


61 


6 


13 


6 


60 


7 


W 


7 


13 


6 


60 


7 


W 


7 


13 


6 


70 


8 


68 


8 


13 


6 


68 


8 


68 


8 


13 1 


6 



298- 


t- 


45 


298— 


44 


296— 


43 


294+ 


42 


293— 


45 


292— 


44 


291 + 


44 


291- 


43 


2874- 


46 


2S7-f 


45 


286+ 


45 


282- 


46 


281- 


45 


280— 


44 


277- 


43 


276+ 


46 


293— 


46 


287 


46 


286- 


- 


48 


280H 


. 


44 


2.(2- 


- 


44 


277- 


. 


45 


289— 


43 


292+ 
287-- 


63 
61 


3i)0 


44 


296+ 


47 


285 


60 


290 


60 


285 


60 


280 


6) 


286-1 


- 1 


60 



WATCHMAKER, JEWELLBBS, &0., RECEIPTS 14;6c 



I No. o( 

Uio 4th 
Whnl 

NTOl- 
TUls. 



40 
88 
88 
86 
9C 
86 
M 
86 

a 

8'} 



8S 

as 

40 
40 
40 
40 
40 



. 


45 


■ 


44 




43 




42 




4o 




44 




44 




43 




40 




45 




45 




¥i 




45 




44 




48 




46 




40 




4»3 




46 




44 




44 




45 




43 




63 




61 




44 




47 




60 




60 




60 




fi.) 




60 



Trains, for Fifteen Teetb In the Escapement Wheel. 


No. of 




L naves 




Lenven 


Toeth 
In ihu 

mcnt 
Wheel. 


Lfavo.1 
In tho 




■'^eocndl 


Teeth 


Tenth In 


Inllil 


Teeth In 


in U.h 


Escape- 


No. of Bcnt.H In 


•hu 4tt 


In the 


3d Wheel. 


Whool 


4th Wheul 


Whcol 


ment 


one ?illnutc. 


Ula-el 


Centre 
Wheel. 




I'iDlon. 




Pinion. 


Whocl 
IMnlon. 




invol- 
TCH in. 


64 


50 


6 


48 


6 


16 


6 


280 


48 


68 


48 


6 


48 


6 


15 


6 


290 


to 


48 


45 


6 


69 


6 


15 


6 


291- 


60 


48 


45 


6 


58 


6 


15 


8 


300 


62 


48 


45 


6 


57 


6 


15 


6 


288 


62 


48 


45 


6 


50 


6 


15 


6 


288 


50 


66 


48 


6 


46 


6 


15 


6 


2H9— 


50 


as 


56 


7 


56 


7 


15 


7 


2S8 


50 


60 


56 


8 


58 


7 


15 


6 


2R8 


50 


62 


60 


8 


60 


8 


15 


6 


2S8 


fiO 


72 


64 


8 


50 


8 


15 


6 


288 


60 


72 


64 


8 


56 


S 


15 


7 


288 


60 


72 


64 


8 


64 


8 


15 


8 


288 


50 


62 


50 


6 


48 


6 


15 


6 


28S 


60 


64 


48 


6 


48 


6 


16 


6 


28S 


50 


72 


64 


8 


48 


8 


16 


6 


288 


m 


72 


80 


8 


64 


10 


15 


8 


288 


60 


72 


80 


8 


56 


10 


15 


7 


288 


50 


72 


80 


8 


48 


10 


15 


6 


288 


60 


63 


80 


7 


64 


10 


15 


8 


288 


60 


63 


80 


• 


56 


10 


15 


7 


288 


60 


63 


80 


7 


48 


10 


15 


6 


288 


60 






(Trains, for Seventeen Toetli In the Escapement IFiieel. 



64 
64 
61 
64 

48 
61 
64 

48 
61 
48 
4.S 
64 
72 
64 
6ti 
63 
64 
80 
80 
80 
80 
8J 
80 
64 
64 



80 


8 


48 


1 10 


17 


6 


48 


8 


44 


6 


17 


8 


48 


6 


45 


6 


17 


8 


43 


8 


43 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


48 


8 


17 


6 


48 


8 


46 


6 


17 


8 


48 


6 


42 


6 


17 


8 


48 


8 


47 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


44 


6 


17 


6 


48 


6 


46 


8 


17 


6 


48 


6 


46 


8 


17 


6 


81 


8 


64 


8 


17 


8 


64 


8 


50 


8 


17 


8 


64 


8 


60 


8 


17 


8 


56 


7 


68 


7 


17 


V 


56 


7 


49 


t 


17 


7 


56 


8 


48 


7 


17 


6 


80 


10 


64 


10 


17 


R 


64 


10 


64 


8 


17 


8 


64 


10 


58 


8 


17 


7 


64 


10 


48 


8 


17 


6 


56 


10 


58 


7 


17 


7 


66 


10 


48 


7 


17 


6 


80 


8 


64 


10 


17 


8 


80 


8 


58 


10 


17 


7 1 



2<jy4- 

299-- 
295-- 
292-- 

2yo-H 

289 

288- 

284-f 

283- 

278 

272 

290-4- 

2S0— 

2fi9— 

290-f- 

286— 

2904- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290-- 

290- - 

290- - 

2904. 



53 

60 

5?^ 

50 

63 

63 

53 

63 

63 

63 

63 

60 

50 

63 

63 

60 

63 

63 

63 

&ii 

68 

63 

63 

68 

68 



To liEMovK Soft Bolder fkom Gold. — Place the work in apirita 
of salts, or remove a.s much as possible with ihe scraper, uaing a 
gentle heat to cniiblo you to get off" the solder more easily. Very 
useful to be known where hard bulderlug is required, either io 
bright or colored work. 



Ifi 

; I;: 



1?.. ^^^ 






^^1 VI ' ■ '1 



>P V 



i 



I 



t 















146(i WATCHMAKEBH, JEWELLERS, &C.;' RECEIPTS. 
Trains, for Third IVlieel and Patent 8<>c'^ndfi. 



No. of 
Teeth 
in the 
Conirj 
WUeel 


To«th In 
JdWUeol. 


LraTeH 
lu M 
Whfol 

riuiou. 


60 


72 


« 


60 


60 


6 


6U 


48 


6 


48 


60 


6 


60 


72 


6 


60 


60 


6 


48 


60 


6 


60 


72 


6 


60 


60 


6 


48 


60 


6 



TOTth in 

Uh Whuul 



60 
CO 
60 
60 
54 
64 
54 
48 
43 
48 



Loayort 
In 1th 
Wlioi'l 
Pluluu. 



12 
10 

8 

8 

12 
10 

8 
12 
10 

8 



Tcdh 
In tin- 

lll'Mt 

Wilt. a. 



Lc.lvrM 

J II I ho 
£-011] »- 

ll>Lllt 

Wl 1 

I'lllic II. 

6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 
6 



1 \ii.„t 

-I'luwli 

No. of r,it\ln ill 'Iic> Uh 

one ,\liui.te. I WIutI 

r.'vc.l- 

>■'■!< in. 



3ii0 
3 
300 
270 
270 
270 
240 
240 
240 



tiJ 
60 
(X) 
60 
(30 
6.) 
60 
60 
CO 
60 



Tralutt, for Fourtli H'liuci Necotrdw, \%'ltli l!:ioven Tocib 
I t (liti l-.A('ai)enion' WIkm-I. 



48 


4i> 





71 


6 




/* 


2' in r 


lk> 


48 


45 


6 


74 


6 




6 


271-h 


60 


48 


45 


6 


70 


6 




6 


279- 


m 


48 


45 


6 


78 


« 




6 


2St} 


60 


60 


4<J 


7 


74 


7 




6 


271f- 


60 


60 


4<J 


7 


70 


7 




6 


279- 


60 


60 


49 


7 


78 


7 







28G 


60 


45 


56 





74 


f 
i 




fi 


271-1- 


ft) 


45 


60 


6 


70 


1 







279- 


CO 


45 


56 


6 


78 


i 




G 


2SG 


m 


64 


60 


8 


74 


8 




6 


2714- 


(ij 


64 


60 


8 


76 


8 




6 


279- 


ft) 


64 


60 


8 


78 


8 




6 


2 SO 


00 


60 


56 


8 


74 


1 




6 


271 f 


tJO 


60 


56 


8 


76 


7 




6 


2.9- 


tJO 


60 


56 


8 


78 


( 




6 


2S.5 


61 


60 


48 


8 


74 


6 







271 + 


60 


48 


48 


K 


78 


6 




6 


VH.) 


ft) 


48 


00 


6 


74 


8 




f 


271 + 


CO 


48 


GO 


6 


78 


8 




G 


28(3 


6!) 


66 


60 


7 


74 


8 




fi 


271 f 


60 



Trains, i'or Fourtli 'Wfierl SrroiulM, with Thirteen Teotb 
in the I.^fuitenu'i.t A%l<tel. 



64 


60 


8 


60 


8 


Id 


G 


28ti 


W) 


64 


60 


8 


67 


8 


r; 


G 


21 to 4- 


60 


64 


60 


8 


GH 


8 


13 


6 


29,^- 


ft) 


64 


60 


8 


69 


8 


13 


G 


299 


60 


60 


40 


7 


1 1 


7 


.3 


( 


286 


00 


60 


49 


7 


60 


7 


r; 


6 


280 


60 


60 


49 


7 


67 


7 


13 


6 


291 l-f 


00 


48 


45 


6 


GO 


G 


13 


6 


28G 


60 


48 


46 


6 


07 


G 


13 


G 


290-1- 


6: 


48 


45 


6 


G8 


G 


13 


6 


204— 


60 


48 


45 


6 


09 


6 


13 


C 


21)9 


60 


60 


66 


8 


GO 


1 


13 


6 


28G 


60 


80 


60 


10 


CG 


8 


13 


6 


280 


60 


64 


75 


8 


CO 


10 


13 


6 


280 


fti 


48 


») 


6 


6G 


8 


13 


G 


280 


(k 


48 


75 


6 


CG 


10 


13 


6 


280 


60' 


45 


60 


6 


GG 


( 


13 


6 


'.'SO 


60 


66 


75 


V 


G8 


10 


13 


6 


295- 


60 



Nil. ft 




T.Hh 


Tfnt 


III til'' 


;l.l W 


(Vntrc 




Wheel. 




64 


6 


CA 


(J 


(A 


4 


m 


5 


4S 


G 


60 


7 


60 


4 


4H 


4 


Si» 


4 


75 


6 


C4 





64 


7 


66 


t 


m 


7 


64 


7 


61) 


6( 


64 


a 


4H 


4. 


CO 


(V 


60 


4: 


4H 


4! 


m 


41 


m 


iV 


4H 


fM 


64 


CI 


60 


4 


fO 


4 


48 


4 


60 


r, 



14 
fA 

m 
so 
7r. 



«o 



Trai^ 



•34 



Not It. 
imiions, 
view, ill 
the corri 
wIkh'I |. 



WATCIIMAKKRS, JEAVELLERS, &C., RECEH'TS. 14Cfl 

rraiiiN, Tor Foiirrth Whcpl Seconds, nrlth Fifteen Teetlt 
111 Escapoment Wheel. 



N<.. ct 




Li':j\-(« 


Tcrtl, 


Tcofh III 


• t. ;til 


liith'' 


3.1 Wlrnl. 


WllC'l'I 


(Viilrc 




riui< 11. 


H'licel. 






04 


&; 


8 


f4 


CO 


8 


fA 


46 


8 


W 


58 


8 


4H 


CD 


6 


ftl 


70 


7 


m 


4:> 


( 


4H 


4'J 





8i» 


45 


10 


75 


0) 


10 


(>4 


C4 


8 


W 


76 


8 


fifi 


(0 


7 


f.') 


76 


1 


(54 


75 


a 


fiO 


60 


8 


fit 


5fi 


8 


4S 


46 


« 


m 


m 


( 


w 


4'J 


1 


4S 


4'J 


♦) 


(-4 


46 


8 


Til) 


i'M 


8 


4H 


rM 


fi 


(^4 


CO 


8 


60 


46 


7 


fO 


4'J 


1 


48 


45 


6 


60 


M 


8 



Tcoth In 
1th WUuc.'l 



70 

60 
60 
60 
CO 
70 
CO. 
CO 
70 
CO 
70 
<iO 
70 
CO 
61 
64 
64 
64 
03 
64 
64 
48 
48 
48 
48 
6C 
48 
48 
48 



Lphtos 
til 4th 
Wind 
Pinion. 



8 
8 
6 
7 
8 

7 
7 
6 
8 
8 

10 

10 

10 

10 

8 

7 

C 

8 

7 

I 

6 
8 
7 
8 
C 
7 
7 



Tooth 
ill Ihii 

iiirnt 
Whuul. 



16 
16 
16 
15 
15 
15 
15 
16 
15 
16 
15 
16 
15 
15 
15 
16 
16 
16 
15 
16 
15 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 
16 



LoaroH i 
!n tlio I 

Kseapc^ I No. of IteatH In 
noiit ono Minute. 
Whcol 
riulon. 



i 

6 

6 
6 
6 

7 
6 
6 
7 

7 

7 
6 
6 
6 

6 
7 
6 
6 
6 
6 
C 
C 
7 
6 
6 
6 



iSU. Ilf 

Sfcomit 

the 4ti 

Whwl 

ruvol- 

V08 In. 



300 
300 
300 
800 
300 
300 
300 
SOO 
300 
300 
3 
300 
3i»0 
300 
270 
270 
270 
270 
270 
270 
270 
240 
240 
240 
240 
240 
240 
240 
240 



60 
60 
00 
6l> 
60 
0» 
60 
CO 
6(» 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
CO 
CO 
fiO 
60 
CO 
CO 

m 
m 
m 

C) 
CO 
60 
60 




TraliiM, for Fourth IVhccI Sefond*!, with 
Tcoth 111 KMcapoiiieut Wheel. 



Sev«ntoen 



l'4 


t'i() 


8 


61 


8 


17 


t) 


28y 


60 


(•4 


C(( 


8 


60 


8 


17 


6 


283-f- 


60 


m 


6C 


8 


61 


1 


17 


6 


289 


60 


80 


CO 


10 


60 


8 


17 


C 


2834- 


60 


76 


(» 


10 


60 


8 


17 





283 -f 


60 


76 


60 


10 


68 


t 


17 


8 


289 


G> 


75 


68 


10 


68 


8 


17 


8 


289 


C> 


80 


76 


10 


68 


10 


17 


8 


283 


6/ 



Traill of the American Wateh COmpany'ii Watch. 



64 I CO I 8 j C4 I 8 I 15 I 7 I 



300 



Id 



NoTic.— Hy use of tlu! foroRoing sot of Trains, and thn rulo for sizes of 
Iiiiiions, oil pago 114, nil dilliciilty of calciiliiting is obviated; and atone 
vii'w, ill cnsc of tin' nccidcntal lo^s of a wliool and pinion, may t)e Icnowii 
the correct sizo an<! count of tho pinion, uv<l uiinitM^r of tcoth in tho 

wheel |')H( 






ill; 



146/ WATCIIMAKEUS, JEWELLERS, kC, RECEII'TS. 

Valdable RECEIPT8 Fon Goldsmiths.— Standard (Jold is com- 
poundod of 440 grains of fiiii' gold, aii<l 40 grains (Troy wftight.to 
the oz. alloy ; therefore, when you judge how much gold n |)il.f.^ 
of work will take, compound it to the standard vveiglit \<\ Wn'Uil 
lowing directions: Asuai/ Weight. The weight of gold is u ikuiikI 
which IS divided into 12 ozs. each oz. into 24 carats, ciuii camt 
into 4 grains, and, lastly, each grain into 4 ([uarters; thin yousto 
the assay quarter-grain, is in reality H grain Troy. 

gCANTITY OB" STANDAUn (JOLD TO COMPOUND AN OZ. «tl ANY UKTliK 
KOLLOWINO ALLOYS CALCULATliD Tt> rUK j OK A (JUAIN, AH KOLLOWn. 



\ 



Curat. 


Dwts. 


Ors. 


ur« 


1 





21 


'2 


1 


19 


'! 


8 


2 


17 


6 


4 


3 


15 


8 


6 


4 


13 


1 


6 


5 


10 


10 


7 


6 


8 


8 


» 


7 


8 


6 


9 


8 


4 


4 


10 


9 


2 


2 


11 


10 








12 


10 


21 


9 


13 


11 


19 


7 


14 


n 


17 


f. 


15 


\6 


15 


3 


16 


14 


13 


1 


17 


16 


10 


10 


18 


16 


H 


8 


19 


17 


6 


(') 


'Jh 


18 


4 


4 


21 


19 


2 


2 


'22 


22 









D 
Q 

< 

a 
o 

H 

o 



Dwts. 


tirx. 


<l\*. 


19 


2 


Vj 


18 


4 




17 


«; 




10 


H 




15 


10 


1(1 


14 


13 




13 


15 


3 


12 


17 


r. 


11 


19 


7 


10 


21 


l» 


10 








9 


2 


2 


8 


4 


4 


7 


6 


f. 


G 


8 


8 


5 


10 


10 


4 


13 


t 


3 


15 


*} 


2 


17 


f. 


1 


19 


t 





21 


^ 



STEnLiNO Gold Alloy, 783. teu oz.— 1. Fine gold, 18 dwt., 12 
grs., line Bilver, 1 dwt., fine copper, 12 grs. 2. JJri/ Coluiat (Jold 
Alloy*. 17 Carat. Fine gold,_15 dwts., fine silver Idwt. 10j,ns., tine 
copiKJr, 4 dwts. 17 grs. 3. Another, 18 Carat. Fine gold, 1 oz., liiic 
silver, 4 dwts. 10 grs., fine copper, 2 dwts. T) grs. 4. Aii(>tli,i\\*i 
Carat. Fine gold, 15 dwts., fine silver, 2 dwts. 4 grs., fuu" copiier, 
2 dwts. 19 grs. 5. Anotlur, 18 Carat. Fine gold, IH dwtt;., Iin« 
Bilver, 2 dwts. 18 grs., lino copper, 3 dwts. 18 gry. 6. Another 3 
Carat. Fine gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 2 dwts. (> grs., line cojipcr, 3 
dwts. 12 grs. 7. Another, 20 (Jurat Fine gold, 1 oz , fine silv /I 
dwts., fine copper, 2 dwts. 4 grs. 8. Anof/ur, 22 Carat. Fine gold, IC 
dwts., fine silver, 12 grs., fine copper, 1 dwt. 3 grs. 9. Cold .vjhkr 
for the foreijning Alloys Take of the alloyed gold you arousing,! 
dwt., fine si'ver, G grs. 10. Alloy fur Dry Colored iiiny.i. Fine golil, 
1 oz., fine silver, 4 dwts. grs., fine copper, 4 dwt.'*. C grs. 11. !S'Mr 
/or ditto. Scrap gold, 2 ozs., fine silver, 3 dwts , fine copper, :: ilwts 
J 2. JJri) Co/vred tScrap reduced to Si).i. Cold. Colored scriip, ioj. 
9 dwts. 12 grs., fine silver, 2 dwts., fine copper, 17 dwts. 12 grs, 
spelter, 4 dwta. 

Dttv Coloring for the Foregoinc:. — Polish your work wrll and 
for every 2 ozs. take saltpctn^, 8 ozs., alum,' 4 ozs., ,':alt, 1 o/.s., 
iccU all toiretho.r iu a black h'ud pot. stirrinn; with n thiu imu bur 



WATCH MAFCEIIS, JEWELLEIIM, &0,, UKOKII'TS. MCtg 



wlicii <liss(»lving. Vao the fire on a forgo and urge it well with tho 
billows (IS yoii can not make it too hot. Your polislietl worli \n'\w^ 
wtll clciiiiell with soda, soap, and hot water, is dried in l»ox sawdust, 
i^ iifterwurds covered witli u thin layer of borax; annealed and 
■'■'■' ' ' ' linally luiLg on 

the pot assumed 
for two or threo 
'sCioriilH, and qiu-nched with ho', waier diluted v.Ith muriatn; acid, 
wliicii reiuovi'S any "color" that may adhere to tho work. TliH 
oin'lit to produce the desired color, but if it does not, repeat thu 
|iioct!S-t, jtroviously drying the work before re-immersion in th i 
"color." Tiio color-i)()t must be emptied immediately upon the 
fui Mr,., sc that it may l)o ready for future use, 
U'ki' Uoloueo Alloys. — 1. Kino gold, 1 oz., fine silver, 3 dwts. I'i 



i^ iifterwards covered wiin u itnn layer or oorax 
tailed out, ami again dried in box sawdust, and 
pliiiiiiii'U or Hilver wire. Wnen tlic '' color " Ic 
ii hiowii yellow llame, tho work is dipi»ed in fo 




H'o/A. Fine gold, I oz., tine silver, H dsvts. 10 grs. C. Awdlier 
(Jreiia (iold. Fine gold, '> dvvts., line silver, 1 dwt. 12 grs. 7. An- 
oth''r(lr<'en Hold. Fine gold, 10 dwts.. fine silver, 2 dwts. 2 grs 8. 
Ut'l (loht, Jar jancxj xvnrk. Fine g'du, 5 dwts., fine copper, 2 dvvts. 
12 h'is. "J. Anot/ie'r Ivd Gold. Fine gold, 5 dvvts., fmc copper. 1 
dwt. '"> gr.-5. lO. Giihi solders for the foreifoinij Alloy s. Take of tho 
iilloyed i^'old you are using I dwt., tine silver, tj grs., or, 5 grs. silver 
anil i K"*- *^'J|*P^''' '""•y '"-' '^=''^'^- 1^- '^'i^dcr /or licpuirtni/ Gold al- 
loyetl, I <l\vt., fin<; silver, fj grs., pin brass, 1 gr.l2. Wet Colitrcd 
S'olkr. Wet colored scrap, 3 ozs., line silver, li) dwts., fine coi)per, 
5 dwts. 13. tro/(/j Hi carat, cost C^Cs. or $l'i per oz. Fine gohl, I 
oz. 18 dwts , fme sdver, 12 dwts. 12 grs., line copper, 10 dwts. 14. 
Fine gold, I oz. fme silver, 8 dwts. fine copper, 4 dwts. 14. 
Fine gold. 1 oz., line silver, 3 dwt-^., fine copper, 4 dwts. If). 
Fine goltl, 1 oz., fme silver, G dwts., fine copi)cr, 8 dvvts. 
10. (ro.l S.I)! do. r for the. last. (Jold scrap, 1 oz., fine silver, .'"> dwts. 
17. (told, ijoii I color. Fine gold, I oz , fine silver, 6 dvvts., fine cop- 
per, t dwts. 18. Gul I cost OOs. or § 15, tjood color. Fino gold, 1 dwt. 
line silver. G dwts., tine copper, 4 dwts. 10. Wet colored solder. 
kSciaji gold, 4 OZ.S., fine silver, 13 dwts., fine copper, G dvvts 10 grs. 
2'i. To n-ditcf 22 carat into Wet colored Gold, 'iold coins, 4 oz., 8 
(hvts., line silver, l.'J dvvts., fine copper, 1 oz. 13 dwto. 21. Tore- 
dace 22 carat to ord'iKtrif wet co'nred Go'd with scrap. Coins 1 oz., 
line gold, 3 ozs., fino silver, 17 dwts. 12 grs., fino copper, 2 ozs, 1 
dwt. 12 grains., scrap, 3 ozs. I dwt. 22. Another way, with sera/). 
Coins, 3 ozs. 1 dwt. G grs., fine gold, 2 oZ3., fine silver, 1 oz 1 dwt., 
tine co|)pcr, 2 ozs. 11 tlwts., 3cra|), 1 oz. G dwts. 18 grs. 23. An- 
other way with scrap. (Joins, 2 oz\, fine gold, 3 ozs. 3 dwts. 3 grs,, 
liuc silver, 1 oz. 1 dwt. 4 gr^., fine copper, 2 ozs. 10 dwts. 12 grs., 
scTiip, 1 oz. 5 dwts 24. To reduce 22 carat to ordinary wet colored 
(rold. without scrap. Coins, 1 oz., fino gold, 8 ozs., fino silver, 2 ozs., 
fine copper, 4 ozs. 14 dwts. 2.'"), Another way, without .icrap. Coins, 
I o/,.. line gold, 2 ozs., fine silver, i;{ dwts, fine co[»per, 1 oz., 11 
(hvls. 20. Another wxy, without scrap. Coins, 2 ozs., fine gold^ G 
ozs., fine silver, 1 oz. 14 dwts., fine copper, 4 ozs. 2 dwts. 



.^■>i'- 




WmA 

■.,-S;'«?l___ 










1 % I'^l 



1 n;/i 'v.vTfitMAKEiis, .lEwar.LEas, fen.. iiECBiprs. 

To WuT-OoiiOa TUB Ka?iHr;o...o ALi.OT-i.-'For 5 oz3. ot wotk ta-e 
Kultpolro, lOo'.i., aliun, Hoji., suit. 8 oz^.,all nulvorizoil and iiiiriiitic 
ucitl, 2 o/.A., (lUsolvo tlio iiigreilieiitrf gruditiilly in a black lead pot. 
AVheu it bjils up, aid tho acid, and stir tho wliolo witl» a wooilea 
.spoon. Havin;;annealc(lyoiiP worit and inf.''»' it porfi3ctly clean, tie in 
small parcels with platinum or liii'^ silver wlro, and when the. color 
l»oild up iminoric it thorein for four minutoJi, movinpf it ab)ut to 
ensure a pcrfoct contact with all partd of thj sui'f.ico. Thju tiko 
it out ami rinse it well In l)oilinx w iter, tlnn im n^rsis in i'lc color 
aj^:iin for li minutes and rinse wM oucn m )ro iu frosh hot w.iter. 
Now adil 2 o/.s. of frjsli hot water to th) c )lor in tho pot, wliicli 
■will cause it to sink. When itriaes put in your w )rk for I minute, 
riu-!lng in fres!i hot w.itcr .-'.jjam, when it will b.5;^in to brijjliten. 
Now imm !rj'! your work for half is minite loui^^r, and rime for tlie 
l.ist tim ' in cloau hot WAter, when it will appear of a most beauti- 
ful color. 

OUDIX'VKY WET OOLTIBO Go.D. — TAIlt.K SlfOWrX'J TIIK PnoPOtlTIONS UU 

Af>i-oY wira kii ».vi o.xk o^. vf v » Ttc.v <»z. ow Kink (ioLi». 



Fine (iold. 


FIu<« Silver 


. 


Fiuo Copper. 




Tot il 




)/.. Dw;s. 


Urn 


i)£. Dwts. ( 


rrs. 


Oz. Dwts. Grt. 


Hi. 


O.vts. 


Grn. 


1 ft 





(1 4 


12 


10 12 


I 


ir, 





2 





u 





1 1 


J 


10 





a 





1) 


12 


I 11 \1 


• t 


5 





4 u 





IS 





2 2 


1 








5 





1 2 


12 


2 12 12 


s 


1". 





•i 





1 7 





3 3 <i 


V) 


10 





7 





1 11 


12 


3 1 { 1 ' 


12 


5 


II 


8 





I !•> 





» 4 


11 








a 





2 


12 


4 U 12 


1.:* 


r. 





10 





2 f. 


n 


5 f. 


li 


10 






wO 

fine 

Ai, 

/' '/'/' 

copi) 
vorl* 
i-l- 
gis. 

illoyi 

SlO.'i 



Oat)i.xAUY uuiour odlh, taulk suowi.vu tui-; I'i; »i' »aru).v oi'- ai.i.')v, 
wirii KiioM 1 o/,. lit* rofio/s, ok* gxsn a >i.i>. 



.■!) 



n I'. 



Finn Gold. 


Fine .Silver. 


roiiijiosition. 


Total 




Oz. Dwtsi. (jirs. 


Oz. Dwt.s. <Jr«. 


Oz. Dwts. Ciri. 


Oz. I>wl* 


(irs. 


1 


5 


I 


2 13 





2 


10 


2 k; 


5 





3 


I.'-. 


4 4 


7 13 


(1 


4 3 


1 


12 


10 12 





G 


1 5 


7 


13 5 





6 


1 10 


8 Z 


15 18 






f3aMiM)3iTio\ Kou THE AiJovK. — Fiuo Ooppor 41 o/iS. spelter 8 o/.s, 

TaIILBOK Atr.OVS put DIPfKttKVr (JirALITIt!:* Ol' <» »f,D. 



QiiUify. 


I' 


iiie Gold. 


Composition. 


Total. 




9 Carats 
12 

15 " 

IS '- 

. 22 « 


Oz. 








Dwts. Grs. 
7 12 
10 
12 12 
15 
18 18 


Oz. Dwts. Gr.H. 
12 12 
10 
7 12 
6 
1 6 


C»z. Owls. 
I 
1 
1 
1 
1 


Ur.s. 








WATOlCVr.VTCEaS, JEWKLLEtt."^, >fei'., UK(1KII'T ' 1^ 



H: 



v^OMI» )8ITI0V tfOIl THK .Vn^VB. — FinoSlIvtV, .'{ ()/,.? r» (Iwtl. 4- irvi. 

fiiu> ci)i>|>'r « '>''■ 1-5 tlwt.-J. I'ijji-s. Siteltttr 1 d/.. I < dvvH. (> f^rs. 

Ai.l. >v^, '''»>"''^'"^"' '• /*"^" ,'/"' /./'>/■ ct/oi'i'i'/, tJu'iinnl/in'/, or 
J,il>l>in'/ — l'''iii(i (J »i»l • oz > '•■>'- silver ;> dw'3., Hm* copper 2 dwls., 
1:1 (rrd. - Aihitker •litto — Fine ^old 1 oz, tiiu! silvtM-K (^\vt^., fiiio 
a)|iii'r :{ ilwn , 12 gr^. 3. AuotUnr ditto -V'nw jrold 1 oz., fin*' sil- 
vor I')dwU ,li iccoppor .{ dwts., 12 gn. 4. Knarmllin;/ (iuld No. 
i— Fill- gild 1 0/.., (ino siivcir 1 rlwt.. I2grs , (iriocoppcr 2 d\vt(«., 12 
218. f). Kii till ■Hill I <}ol l/i'om Slerlini/ —Sti'.rUwrr 1 o/,., Hiio silver 
8 gri., fi I ' ooppor 2 dsvtjJ. G. Knnmllinif (} ilil S >l'liT--Vin\A 
■ " ' ■ ' U' 
/ycT 'Ji. — r ii'u g >it 



lUoyird, I ihvt., Iiiu' silvcir 4 grs 7. AnothiT Uit/o, cox' AU. sf/., or 
5; 10. '(."»/'<.•/• 0!. — Flnu g )ld ) -i dvvM., Miio silver 7 dwtj., A gra., tiuo 



cuppiT ') dwU. 
-Fino 



/H'/fiui/ (}old No. 2. C"t/ i'iOf. xt;/. jier oz. 
gold 1 oz., line ail ver'.> dwts., 12 gra., fine copper 7 dwls , 12 
gfs. ;». I'hiiiii"llin:/ (told No. W. — Fine gold 1 o/,., line silver II 
(I\vt,a jiiic copper IS dwt:".. 10. I'hiainellinif (Jold No. 1. — Fine gold 
2 o/,4 , Tnhvl:!., liiiosllver 1 oz,, (> d\vt3.,line copper 1 o/.., pin brum 
.^(l.vts. 11. h'aiincl/in'/ (Ji)ld No .'). — File goltl 1 oz., line silver 
rJ(lwt3.,.'iiieo )pper<;d\vt.s. 12. Hnamfllinif Gold No. t't.for fnins- 
fiiipiil iwiiii''lliiiii — V\\\c gold 1 oz., fine silver 1 1 dvvt.s. line copjter 
(JdA'ts. l.'{. (hid ijtder /'or cnanmlled work — Fine gold 1 oz., fino 
.^ilvei I oz., fino copper li) dwts , silver .solder H dwts., M gr.^. 1 \. 
)'iilr (I'lil I iilloi/.Hjor jiidinhini/, ,'^•1-., No. 1. — Fnio gold 1 oz., fino 
ffilver S (Iwt.s , fine copper !i dwls , 12 grs. 1."). Anof/fr, No. 2. — 
l'"iiie golil 1 )z., fin silver I dwt,2i) gr.s., fine copper 1 dwt., I gr.s. 
p; /''/'/' IH Cdnit Gold—Viiui gold I oz.. finesilver 1 dwt.s., f1ni> 
CDpperJdwt.s., Ify grs. 17. Anotker Pale IH (^unif (Jold — Fine gold 
1 oz , I'i grs., fine silver iJdw*' , H grs., fine ro|>per;{ dwt.s., S '.jr.s. 
IH I'llr (loll Sold,n-~V%iM alloyed 1 d\vt.,<; grs., fine silver I (hvt. 
\'J .l/liii/f'ir ln"<t /V;i'»— Fine gold 1 oz., fine; silver."* dwts., fine cop- 
jicr 7 dwts., IH grs., spelter 1 dwt., <> grs 20. Soll-'rfyr ditto — 
Kiiio^roiil 12 dwts., line s'lver V dwts., '.^ grs., fineco;)p'r tidwts. 21. 
Sl-'luuu i/ii'i/ili/ /><')iH—V]n(^ g'^1'1 I oz , Composition 1 oz., l;{ dwts. 
'11. (''iiii/io'<i/ion/or tfif liist — Fine silver 1 oz., 1 7 dwts., li le (V):)per 
.'■f i»zs , if) dvvts.,si)elter IH dwts., 20 grs. 2.}. Solder (or ditto— F'liui 
((tilt 1 oz, fine silver 2 ozs , pin-brass 1 oz. 21. (loldfor common 
liiia -Fine ^ »1 I 1 oz., fi-ie silver 2 oz^., line copi>er 1 oz. 2"). .S'o/- 
il'T lor ditto Fine goM 1 oz , finwsilv.ir 2 ozs., pin l)rass 1 oz. 2*'.. 
/l'/.)//f ''/ (lol.l Willi Iti-ii^^^ No. 1. — Fine gold 1 oz., fine silver "i 
(hv.s., ^ grs., fint! copper !{ dwt-*, 12 grs., pin brass IH dwts. 27. 
Ai'iilnr dilto^ .\o. 2. — Fi le gold 1 oz!, fine silver Idwts., line oop- 
|MT I dwts., pin brass M dwts. 2H Another ditto, N). A, — Fino 
\^'M 1 ()/,,, fill" silver.') dwts., 12 grs,fi.ie co'tper.'Jdwts., 12grs , jtin 
tiniis !'.» dwts, () grs. 20 .l/t'>///r/- <///a>/— Fine gold 1 oz., line sil- 
ver :< 'wts., 21 grs., fine copj)er 9 dwts, ;{ grs. composition.') dwts. 
'1 f^rs :*>i). A'lntlu'r ditto — Fin-J gold I') dwts., 9 grs., finesilver .5 
dwts. 10 grs. fine copper \\ dwts. 21 grs. composition 15 dwts. 31. 
(I'lmjto^itiiin /'or t lie lust two all.ojfx — Finest copper 1 oz , spelter . 5. 
(iwt:;. :{2. S'dder for fore ijoing alloya — Gold alloyed 1 dwt., fino 
cilver 12 grs. 33. Imitniion Gold cokIs^Ic per 02. — Fine silver 2 
ozs.. .'i dwts., fine copper 1 oz. composition 1 oz., keeps its color 
very w 11. ;u. (lomi>oxition for ditto — Fine copper 11 ozs, spelter 
- 0/.S. 3,"). • Cali/orniu" Gold— F'mc gold 5 ozs., 12 dwts. compo- 

■:, ■ - ■ . . . - -. .,\ 



■' ^ ll 





]4V-i WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLEUS, AC, RECEII'TS. 



IV 



sition 7 ozs., ITdwts. .in. Composition for " C<iliforniti^^~V\w sil- 
vor 7 ozs., 17 dwtis. fine copper :!,{ o/.a. I'J dwls., spi'ller U o/s. ij 
dwts. ."{7. Mc'liiim (,'o/</-P\uo {,n)l(l 1 oz , fim- silver 12 dwls. lini) 
copper i;{ (Iwts. ;!H. lirii/ht iioUI—V'ww gold 1 (»•/.., fine fiiUer 7 
dwts. eotiipo.silion iiiiirked No. :!t, 1 dwt. figrn. ;{;>. Coiiimnii Col I 
JVo. 1.— Fine {i^old 1 o/,., line silver H dwts. composition No. ;:4. i 
oz., rjd\vtd. 41. CoDDNo.i O'lifil, iVo. "J.— Fiue gold 5 dwtd. line .<il. 
ver .{ dwta. (igrs. fine copper <! dwts. 12 gra. 42. Cold/or I'inx- 
Kino g')ld 1 oz.j fine silver "> dwts. fine copper 1 oz., speiler .^ d\\t.s. 
4.'{. Jhjf Ciilorcd Sent}) reduced to 'A'ts. or lii.S.75 d'oLl — ('olored 
pcnip ioz., U dwts., 12 grs., fine silver 2 dwts., fine coi)per 17 dwts. 
12 grs., speller 4 dwts. 44. Alloti Ji>r (lold Chdiiix.- Fine gold U 
dwts.,t; grs., fine silver 2 dwt.-i., .^ grs., fine copper i'> dwta., ]>! grs. 
45. Another ditto — Fine gidd 1 oz., fine silver !• dwts., fine copiuT 8 
dwts Id. (roil worth l.'t.s. sli/. or ^\ 1 .2.")— Fine g(dd I oz., cuniiHi- 
silion (s'-e No 22) I oz 47. Soldirjor ditto — Fine gold 1 oz., line 
silver If) dwts., line copper ir> dwts. 4H. 12 Cdnit ti'f'/f/— Fine gold 
1 oz., fine silver lu dwls., line copper !» dwt.s., ') grs. 4'.). Common 
Goldjroin " Ciili/nnnii'"—'^ Ciiliforniii," (see No. ;'.;").) S ozs. line .sil- 
ver i;'. ozs., in dwts, line copper dozs., 10 du-ts. 5(1. 21».v, '(/.S7.2,'i 
<lold—V'n\C: gold i oz., i:{dwt3.,») grs., fine silver 1 oz., 12 dwts., I'j 
grs., fine coppi-r i oz., K) dwts., 0. grs., spelter 1 dwts. StiiniLs nitric 
acid very well. 



' adiwakv iiuiunT (loi.n wiiiic, taiii.i-. sn(iwiN(» 'rni: imioi-ortio.ns uk 

AI.I.OV KU<».M 1 oz. Ill' TO 21 oz. 



F'lK! (lold. 


Kino Silver. 


Fine Copper. 




Total. 




Oz. Dv.tH. «irs. 


<>/.. Dwts. V.r^. 


Oz. l>Wts) (iis. 


0/ 


1 >wts 


( ; V*. 


5 21 


t) (i 


t; 21 


1 







li IS 


14 12 


1:5 18 


2 







17 1& 


1 1 18 


1 ir> 


a 







1 ir. r, 


2 3 12 


2 I (5 


(i 







2 12 21 


'.i .O 


2 1 21 


» 







3 10 12 


• 4 7 


4 2 12 


12 







4 8 :j 


ft 8 IS 


u A y 


ir. 







r, t 18 


<) 10 12 


« ;] 18 


u 







«) ;} 8 


7 12 r, 


2 4 ".* 


21 








''o (iE(jr.'>'RU THE fioi.n LOST IN Coi.oitTNn .- Dissolve ;i Ivindl'iil nt' 
snlpli ite of iron in boiling Wii.l"v, tiien iidil lliis t(» youi- " color' 
wate ■, it precipitates the small partic'' • of gold. Now draw oil 
liiH \.'uler, lieing very cari'fnl not tcdism 1» tlie anrifcrons sedinniit 
:i t tlie bottom Von will now proceed to wash the sediment Irniii 
;dl lra« I! of" acid with )»lenty (d" toiling water; it will !t'<piire .'tor 
4 separalfj washings, with sullicient tim,' between each to nllow 
the water to cool and the seiliment to stdtle, before ponring iIr' 
water (tl. Then dry in an iron vess(4 by th*; fire ana nnailv liisi' 
in a covered skittle pot with a fhix as directed on pagt! Jll. 
tSee " To Futw, 'Juld JJunt.'' J"'or Siti)crsmilh>» ('omiionitions. Stu 
t»ai/e 2H 1 



SANDOZ MKTHOD OP ISOCaRONISH. 



i4e;x: 



till. 




wts 


(irs 

























































I'KACTICAL MKTHOD Ct PROPUOINO I80CHR0NI»M IN PLAT AND 

liKKOi'F.T Sl'UlN(»«.— /.«ocArowi»wi, from the Greok, meaning equal time, 
is tlie i)roi»«.'rty iw.ssessed by the Pendulum anil the Hair Sjiring to 
nccuni])1isli titcir arcs ol vibration of different amplitudes in the same 
.simi-t' of time. In a pendulum, the only "ondition re«|uired is that itii 
icuplli bf such as to niiike tlie centre ol jrravity move accorduig to the 
cvclttiil (Mu-To: but in the Hair .Spring the means change with the forms 
nfft'fti'il l»v the Spring. In ti»e npherieal or conical springs, the extreme 
curves coiistructcd after the mathematical rules discovered by I'rof. 
I'liiilipps. of the I'olytechiiical School of Paris, will jiroduce an Iso- 
clirciiisni very nearly perfect. In the Hat spring, these curves cannot 
exist, tluTct'ore other means must he resorteil to. I shall give now the 
iPMilts of several years of expi'riment and study, v/hich can be em- 
boilicil in tlie two it>llowing theorems : 

\.-ln the fiat »i>rinij, every coil has theoriticnlly a point where the 
viiirdtiiiiiM an Isochronal. 

'l,— lViiit point of I Hochr anixm i» determined by the relative position 
of thi two points rofinectiny the hair xfirimj with the collet and stud, 
callftl Points d'attarhe. 

These two pn>p(>.tili(Mis tnrm the base of Isoehronism hi the Hat spring; 
Ihcrel'tue tlie idea genera] y accrediteil among watchmakers that thi- 
iMxIiroiial jirop;' vtles of a flat spring de|ieiiil on lis l«>ngth is incorrect, 
.since llie luili as wi '.". "s thi iidth cod of the sprmg is able t»> produce 
tlu' Ir^iiiiironism, the oul\ limit being such sizes of springs that would 
jiievi'iil the perfect freedon 'U' its action. 

Kreedtmi (»f action being ne«'e»sary for the Isochronal properties of 
the spriiig to develop themselves, the spring must be bent to the centre, 
accunliiig ti> Fig. II— the ilrst coil bemg too near or the curve too tlat, 
HO that even a minute part of the spring could touch the c<>itet, woidd 
li'miler tlie Isodironism. Next, tlie spring mu.<>t be pinned perfectly 
tiiihi ill tlie collet and stud, and move freely between the regulator pins. 

These conditions fultlllcd, the watch is run H, ti or 12 hours with Just 
streiigtli enough to keeii it going; the result is compared with a regit- 
htoraiid set down. Next, the watch is fully wound up, ami alter a 
s|i,'i('e of lime e<|iial to the tlrsi trial, the result is again set down. Most 
K iierally the watch will run slower in the short vibrations than in the 
wiile ones, and consequently lose time tn the pockt't in the last twelve 
hours t)!' its running. Having set down as a )n-incple that every coil 
ims an Isochronal point, we have now to determine; that point, ii'in'mi- 
luriiiK that as a general rule, every increase of ienyth of the sprin<j 
(Iter that point, will couae the watch to gain in .the short ril/rations, and 
ireru di'cre(tse hark of that point will cause it to ijain in the wide vihra- 
tiuiiH. Tills rule isctu'rectonly for certtiin limits, as lam goiugt<texplain. 
Su|iposiiig that a Hair Spring of 1.^ cjils is perfectly lst>chronal wilhthe 
two /"ii/ir« (/'(iffrirAe iiist opposite each other, au shown in Fig. HI, the 
lltli and the Kith coil, as well as the l.Mh, will prodtieo the Isoehronism 
very nearly at the same point. SnppoMing that we increase gradually 
the length'of that Hair Spring of lit coiis, pinned up so that the two 
;/fi/»r.v (yvw^arAc are primitively opposite each other—so that its lem/th 
mil now '-e ir)*ro*7» — Wiciw^i points d'attache are now in the position 
shown in Fig. IV, or what is called pinned to the half coil. The result 
will lie that the Hair Spring will cause the watch to gain in the short 
vihralions as much as it is in (Is power to do. 

Hill if we go further than the half <;oil, we now enter the ground that 
lieli>ii>,'8 to the HHh coil.and every increase of length in that half coil 
will cause the Hair Spring to lose in the short vibrations, in the same 
iiioportinn that it has been gaining in increasing the length of the llrst 
iialt. That change will continue until we reach the same point on the 
Ititli coil lliat we started from on the l.'ith, viz., the two pins opposite 
eacli tiiher; at that point we shall have again the Isoehronism. The 
biiiiie openitioii is applicable to the I tlh coil, with the same results. 

Now It is immaterial whether we take that half coil to the centre, or 
to the outside of the spring, because both of these operations will pro- 
"liice the same results, viz., the change of the relative places ol the 
pmnis d'attarhe of the spring. Therelore the artist has his chof-^e, and 
is ic.iided by the size ol tlie spring and the weight of the balance; for 
lukiiitr hi'.lf a coil to the centre of the spring will not much affect Uie 
rule of the watch, but taken outeiUe, the diiTerouce will be great. Uu 





im 



SANDOZ METHOD OF ISOOHRONISM. 



the other hand, a very short cut to the centre will Rrcatly affect the 
Isochrouism, and at tne outside, a lull half-coil will geuerully produce 
IVom 15 to 25" difference in 24 hours. 11' then the watchmaKCr wouM 
produce the greateat possible cUauf^cs of Isochrouism in a watch, i\w 
change of position of the iwo points d^attarhe of the spring of one coil 
around, will give him the two highest degrees of gaining and losing in 
the short vibrations. 

It follows from the following pages, that if a watch loses in llic Inst 
running (short vibrations), the flrst thing to do is to increase the length 
of the Hair Sprmg from the outside ; if the residt is better, hut not yei 
good, gi'"' Btdl more length ; if the result is worse, it shows that yon 
arc too fai on the coil. Take hack the whole length that you had givcu 
in the llrst operation, and draw more length, so as to affect the spring 
the other way ; or if your spring is already small or your balance j)rctly 
heavy, cut to the center so as to come around to tlie rc(iuirt'd positions. 



^iU 



Fig.II 



III. 




Fig. TV. 



For mstance, in Fig. V, the spring being pinned in A, anu the watch 
losing 7" in the last 12 hours (short vib.), I flrst mcrease the length of the 
Hair hpnng to the point B, but as I am already on the grounil belonginR 
tothe/oaintf action, the result will be an increased lossol tune in tin last 
running. I then go back to the point A, and moreover i)iu the spring? to 
<j, and then I shall approximate isochronism. However, in most casi.i 
the increase of length will make the watch £,aiu in its l.^st runnu^g. 



SANDOZ METHOD OF ADJUSTINO. 



U6m 



Some sprioRS cannot produce the laochroniuni ; this comes from a 
defect iu iiiukiug the Hprlog, or a wuut of lioiuogeueity iu the metal ; 
tho only remeily is a new spring. 

Ill tiie Urcgiii't SpringingH, ttie Isochroniam is produced in the same 
mnuuer as the lint upriuginga, but great care muHt be taken iu niakiuK 
the curve, for if it is not ma«le iu coulormity to the prutciple dI' 
rhillipps, the Isochrouism will be disturbed. 

Adji'stmgnts to Positions. — This adjustment is known to but 
fe\.- watcliniakers, and they make it a regular business. It requires of 
the u|)erator considerable manual skill and rellectlve powers. The 
Xrt-nt principle is to equalize the frictious, bo that the pivots will utt'cr 
to the action of the spriug the same resistance iu the four positions 
■'ditnilly reciulred, viz., dial up, XII up, cock up and 111 up. After 
finviiig inspected and corrected the train so tliat the motive power is 
tiTuisiiiitted uniformly to the balance, the pivots and Jewels of the lever 
bliuiiUl l)e polished and shortened so aa to have very little friction ; next, 
tlie lever should be poised as nearly perfect as possible, and the slot 
also iu the fork where the ruby pin acts should be polished. The balance 
jt'wels oiij;ht to be made short enough to have the holes suuare, rounded 
lusiilc, and perfectly polished, the oalance pivots well burnished and 
ttu'ir ends half rounded, and the balance poised very carefully. Tlie 
ku),'lir«li method of throwing the balance out of poi ie to obtain the same 
rate iu ditferent ))ositions is not accepted generally, and is considered a 
bad practice by tiie most eminent watchntakers. The Ilair Spring is 
]uit iu itti position without tlie balance, and bent so that the collet and 
the cock j..wel will have tho same centers. The watch being now in 
good ruiuung order, is put under trial for 12 or 24 hours, and the rate in 
each ixisitioii carefully noted. If there is any difference iu the running 
with tiie cock u)>, or dial u)) ; making the ends of tlie pivots even and 
enually well ii'.dished will remove the discrepancy. It the watch /o««.» 
with .\!il up, which is generally the case, and the iriction ou the balance 
jewels Itoiiig reduced as much us possible, the remedy is to increase the 
iVlctiou when the watch is eitlier ilial or cock up. This is done by throw- 
ing tin Hair Surinp a little out of the center of the cock jewel, thereby 
adtliug to the friction on the pivot enil, a lateral pressure against the 
Imlauce Jewels. If the watch is well regulate«l with XII up, and loses 
with HI up, throw the spring a little towards the Jiaure III ; this 
operation lifts up the balance when the watch is in the losing position, 
and iliiiiiuishes the friction di'the pivots iu that uarticular case. Mali ing 
the ends of the pivots iierfectly llat has a tenuency to make the watch 
gain with dial or cock up. The souml of the watch must be clear in all 
])OHitioiis, else it indicates a friction, as for iustauce rough Jewels or 
pivots, safety pm rubbing against the roller, etc. 

How TO Reoulate a Watch in a vkw minutks, and a Practi- 
cal Method to put a new Hair Sj*RiN«i, ur tuk riuht size 

AND 1'EIIFECTI.V REUULATKD. IN A WaTCII WITHOUT RUNNING IT. 

First, ascertain how many vibrations the watch beats in one minute, 
by counting every other vibration and comiiaringthat time with a well- 
regulated watch or regulator. In general, Swiss watches beat 18,000 in 
oue hour, viz., 300 in one minute; American watches, cither 18,000, 
either 10,200, or 270 per minute ; and the Engiish levers, U,4U0, or 240 per 
ntiniite. If there is any doubt, it is better f,o count up leaves and teeth, 
and ascertain the right number ; but these cases are scarce where 
wutches will beat odd numbers. 

Having fountl out the right number, examine tlie Balance carefully 
for one or two minutes, counting every vibration going from right to 
left, and in the mean time examining the regulator or clock, to see when 
one minute is up. If the watch is well regulated, the number of vibra- 
tions must be exactly iialf of the regular llrst number, viz., IWl, 13S, or 
1'2(), as only every other vibration lias been recorded to facilitate the 
oliscrvation. If not so, move the regulator, right or left, until a perfect 
coiucidence comes. 

To |iick up a newHair Spring, after having recorded the right number 
of beats — cither by the <dd hair spring, or by the numbers of the train 
—lay tlr?t the spring with its center well in the center of the cock jewel, 
and having ascertained where the coil will enter between the plus of 







^3. ] 



.. ■ 


t 




:i\ 


'.«*■■■' ' 




Alt » 


W'^ 


l< ' 






%i 


i 











•!i 




!l 






14Cn 



8AND0Z ON COMPENSATION. 



the regulator, note the piacc. Stick to (ho pivot of the linlnnco a snail 
rouiul piece of beeswax ; then stitk it to the ci'iitt-r of tlu- sjiiiiL' 
so ns to establish a teniitorary but linn cojiiiection of llie two i)ie( cs 
and Imvinj? pinched with the tweezi -s ilic Hair Sprinj? to the plaic in- 
dicated l)y tlie regtdator pins, cans*- it to vibrate gently ; tlieii count nn 
the vibrations lor one minute, and when vmi have got a spring that will 
produce nearly the re(iuired number of beats, pin it to tlie colht, ami 
cause it again 'to vibrate, moving the tweezer^* forward and backward, 
until the right number of beats is produced ; wlh another pair of 
tweezers, pinch tlie Hair Spring about one-eiglith of .in iacli back of tlie 
regulating point, so as to counterbalance the gain prodiiced by tiic re;,'- 
ulator pins, and bend slightly th» wire, which is the place v,!:;;v Mic 
liair Spring must be pinned to tlie stud. Having then trued uinnt! 
8i»ring, proceed to put the regulator to the ight jilacc, by using tlic way 
indicated in tlie beginning of this article, and tlie work is (lone. Siu-ccs'ij 
is certain, when the operation has been carefuUv iterformeil. The 
balance must be made to vibrate on nonie hard and well-i>('lislied snh- 
stance, so as to keep ui» the vibration to about the standard ot ri'^riilar 
running. A little practice will soon enable the Watchmaker to chanst' 
a Hair Spring very quick, and without any trouble whatever. 

Oi' CoMTENSATlON.— .\ most accurate way of counterbalancin^' 
eflects prodiiceil on tlie running of watches by'dillVrent leinperatiirt's. 
is the FjXjiansion IJalance, fornu'd of two concentric rings, om intcridr, 
of steel, and one exterior, of brass, joined together by lianl st '. rinn 
or smelting. The general proj)rotion of these two metals is one part ol 
steel, and two of brass. The stronger dilatation of brass, causes ilu' 
r'ni of the balance to bend iiiwanlly when the heat, iiicrea^inv', 
diminishes the strength of tl»e Hair Sjiring; the greater conliin limi 
bends the rim outwardly M'hen cold comes to incnase the rlgi(li(\ di 
the sjiring's coils. Pushing lorwurd or backward the screws of tho 
rim will alfect the conipensaling powtrs of the balani'e, by cans 
ing their weight to be more active as iliey como nearer the end ot ihc 
cut arm. The thinnt-r and higher the riin, the greater the a<'tion. .\ lew 
trials will bring the balance to compensate the ellects of tempeiatmt' 
from 30^' to liMl"-' Falireiiheit. For extreme temiteratiires anotliiT com- 
pensation, called auxiliary, is used, but only in Sliii) (Chronometers. .\ 
soft spring Mill be less allected by clian^^es of temperature than a 
hardened one; this affords a way to (•omiiensate certain balances, where 
otherwi.se new ones woulil Imve to be iiseil. A i>rccaution to observe 
in compensating is to make the screws go freely on 'the balance, ami not 
screw them too tight, else the action of (be rim not being tree, a gooil 
compensation could not be attained, until the combined actions of dila- 
tation and contraction tlieinselves of the rim have freed the screws. 

For watchmr... 'rs who woiihl want to eoinpensate a watch without 
having an Kxpansion Halance, I give the following process, wliiih 1 
liavc Buccessfiilly used : After having cut off the greater jiart of tlic 
regulator's, arm. another arn: is to b«' lilted w.tli a screw on the rim of 
the repulator, so as to revolve freely around that screw as an a\is 
The jtins are juit in the same jiositioii as on the old arm. .\ ring, of two 
parts of brass and one ot steel, is llien fastened at one end on that iimv 
able arm. and the other end is screwed at any convenient place, eilhiM 
on the re.gulat(U' itself, or on the cock. See Fiu. I. \\\ placing the 
whole ring on the regulator, the latter maybe moved as in any other 
watch; the ring opening or sbnliini,' itself under the changes A 
temperature, will push backM'ard and luiward the regulator cins, ami 
BO elfeet the compensation which is to be regulated by varying eilhci 
the proportion ot brass and steel, or the size of the ring. 

To try the running ol the watches, a coninion relrigerafor is used to 
produce the low temperature, and then nn ap])araliis, Helf-rcgiitalint!, 
will produce the high temper.ature. Itiscoininonly a square box ol tin 
or co))per, hernielically «Ios(m|. under wliirli is a gas burner. A com- 
jiensaling arm of the form of a l'. made of brass and steel, is lasiennt 
msiile the box, and is conuected by !• string with a lever attached to \\w. 
key of the burner; and acts so tliat at the bii;li temjieratiire, sav lOii^' Fah., 
the fjas is nearly shut olT, the conijiensaliiu;: arm gradualfy releasing 
itselt. and consequently letting out more gas when the heat ilimiiiisln;:* 
iueide the box. Use sleel piub to secure sprinjj to collet ami bind. 



Sp 



I'll I. s 



WATCII.MAKEIIS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



U? 



To Tkihtkn a Ri'BY Pm. — Set the ruby pin in asplialtnm var- 
nish. It will bi'CDini' liiird in a i'ow iiiiiiutos, and bo much firnier 
„ii(l lictUT tiian <fmu shi'lhic, as goni!rally used. 

Ti) Tkmi'ku JIhahs, ou to Draw its Tkmper. — Brass is rendered 
liiud hy hiiiiunering or rollin}^ ; thori'tbre, when you make a thing 
iif liiMSS iK'ci'SSary to bo in temper, you must prepare the material 
iKifore sliii]iiiig the artiele. Temper may be drawn from brass l)y 
(iciitint,' it to ii cherry red, and then .imply ])lMnging it into water, 
(he same <is though you were going to temper steel. 

To TK.\nv:u Duii.ls. — [Select none but the linestand ijest steel for 
)'i)ur (Irillri. In iniikiug tiieni, never heat higher than c cherry red, 
and iilwiiyd liiuiimer till nearly cold. Do all your iiammering in 
one way, for if, after you have llatteiied your piece out, jy^ou 
,uti'i!iiit to liiunmer it back to a square or a round, you spoil it. 
When your drill is in proper shajte, lieat 't to a cherry red, and 
tlinist it into a piece of resin or into (juicksilver. Some use a solu- 
lidii of ey.'uiuret potassa and rain-water for tempering their drills, 
i)iit for my part, 1 have always found the resin or quicksilver to 
ivork tx'St. 

To TiiMi'Eit GuAVEU-s. — Gravers, and other instruments larger 
iliiui ilrills, may '>e tempered in (piicksilver ai above; or you may 
ISC k'.id iiiritead of quicksilver. Cut down into the lead, say half 
'uiiKli; then, liaviiig heated your indtrum'nt to a liglit cherry 
iTiJ, iireris it lirmly into the cut. Tiie lead wUl melt around it, and 
nil I'xeelli'Mt temper v.ill be imparted. 

OruKU Mk'iuoos to Tkmj-ku Case kSi'Rl.VGS. — Having fitted the 
.N|iniit; into the case according to your liking, temper it hard by 
l.iiitiiig iiiid plunging into water. Next polish the small end so 
lliiU.yoii may l)e aide to see when the color changes ; lay it on a 
liiece of CDjiper or bra.ss i)late, and hold it over your lamp, vvith the 
liliizu diri'ctly under the largest part of the .spring. VVatcli the pol- 
islit'ij part of the steel <lo3ely, and when you si!c it turn blue, renu)ve 
tjic plate from the lamp, letting all cool gradually together. Wiien 
cooi enough to handle, polish the end of the spring again, place it 
u!i the plale, and hold it over the lamp as before. The third bluing 
el' llie polished en<l will leave the spring in i)roper temper. Any 
sli'cl article to which you deaire to give a S]>ring temper may be 
trcutcil in tiie same way. 

A not law ]irocess, said to be good, is to temper the spring as in the 
fust instiiiice ; then jiiit it into a STiiall iron ladle, cover i*, with 
luiceil oil, and hold over a lamj) till the oil takes lire. Remove 
!lu' ladle, Imt let the oil eontimie to burn until nearly all consumed, 
wl'iii blow out, re-cover with oil, and liold over the lamp as before. 
The ihird burning out of the oil will leave the spring in the right 

Irliipcr. 

Tu Tkmi'er Cmcks, RATcnETS &c. — Clicks, ratchets, or other 
.■^tii'l urviiles re(|iiiriiig a similar (legrec of hardnes.>J, sliould be ti • ■- 
jMTi'd in inrreurial ointment. The process consists in simply heat- 
iiig to a cherry red and plunging into the ointment. No othcv 
iikmIo win combine toughness and luirducss to such an extent. 

To DllAW TUK TemI'EK KIIO.M Dei.I.'ATE STKKIi riKCES WITHOITT 

Si'iMN iN<i TUK.M. — IMaee the articles from whii h you desire to draw 
the tempi-r into a common iron clock key. Fill around it witli 




»<• 



148 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLEHS, SiC, RECEIPTi^. 



i. 



brass or iron filings, ant' tlion jiliig tij) tlie open end witli a stoel 
iron, or bniss ]>liig, made to fit, closely. Tiikf llu- Iniiidlcut tlic key 
with your pliers and hold its pipe into the hlazc of a lamp till luar 
hot, then let it cool gradually. When sntticit'iitly cold to hiindlc 
remove the ping, and you will find the article with its temper 
fully drawn, but in all other rcspoct.-s just ;is it was before. 

You will understand the reason for having the article thu.s plugged 
up while passing it through the heating and cooling process, \vlii;ii 
I tell you that si)ringing always results from the action of 
changeable current!* of atmosphere. Tiie temper may he drawn 
from cylinders, staffs, pinions, or any other delicate pieces, l)y this 
mode with perfect safety, 

To Temfkii Staffs, Cylixdkks, ok Pinions, without Si'Iust.ino 
THEM. — Prepare the articles as in the preceding process, using a 
steel plug. Having heated the key-pipe to a cherry reil, piuiiLrc it 
into water; tlien jtolish the end of youi steel plug, jdace tiie key 
iipoii a plate of brass or copper, and hold it o-ff y(jur liuii|t 
with the blaze immediately nnder the ])ipe till the jxdi.siied part 
becomes blue. Let cool gradually, then polish again. iJlue 
and co(j1 a second time, and the work will be done. 

To Draw tiik Tkmi-ku kuo.m i'akt ok a S.m\m. Stkkl Article.— 
Hold the part from which you wish to draw tiie temper with a jmir 
of tweezers, and with your blow-pip(( direct tlie flame w|iiin 
them — ncjt tlie artich; — till sulheieul heat is communicated to llio 
ariiclo to produce the desirecl effect. 

To BiJiR SciiKWS KvKNi.v. — Take an old watch barrel and tlrill 
as many holes into the head of it as you desire to blue screws at a 
time. Fill it about one-fourth full of brass or iron filings, |)nl 
in the head, and then fit a wire, long enough t(» bend ovor 
for a handle, into the arbor holes — head of the barrel upwiinl.-!. 
lirighteu the heads of your screws, se.t them |)oiiil downwards, 
into the holes already drilled, ami expost; the liottom (d" the hiuiil 
to your lamp till the screws assume the color you wish. 

To Rk.movk Ijlitino kkom Stkki,. — IniTiierse m a pickle composod 
of e(pial iiarts muriatic acid and elixir vitrol. liinse in imre 
water, ana dry in tissue paper. 

To Makk Diamond Muoaomks. — Make your broaches of brass tlic 
size and shajte you desire; then, having oiled them sliglitly. 
roll tlicir points into fine diamond <lust till entirely covered, lloia 
them then on the face of your anvil, and tajt with a light hainincr 
till the grains disappear in the I)ras3. Great caution will bo 
necessary in tliis operation. Do not tap heavy enough to fluttea 
the broach. Very light blows are all that will be recpiired ; the 
grains will be driven in much sooner than one would imagiite. 
rtome roll the broach between two smooth pieces of steel to 
imbed the diamond dust. It is a very good w-ay, but somewhat 
more wasteful of the dust. Broaches made on this plan are used for 
dressing out jewels. 

Jbwellino. — ill using the broaches,press but lightly into the jewel 
hole, and turn the broach rapidly with the tingers. ' For polishin;?, 
use a bone or ivory jmint, lightly coated with the finest diainoiul 
dust and oil, and while using it with the one Iiand, aceompany llio 
motion with a slight oscillating motion of the other hand, ia wliidi 



WATCUMAKtRS, JKWELLEllS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



140 



til*" jewel is lu'ld. This will ensure a more even polish to the hole, 
with li'sH liiiliility to press the jewel out of its place in the plate, 
tlmii if IhM iii'ni mi'l steaily. 

To M\KK I'oi.isiiiNfi Mroacheh. — Theso orc usually made of ivory, 
und ustil with diiimond dust, loose, instead of having been driven 
in. Vdu oil the hrDacii lightly, dip it into the'finest (liamond dust, 
jiiiil iirocccd to woFK it into the jewel the same as you do the brass 
liroiich. Unlbrtiiii.itoly, loo many watchmakers fail to attach 
siiliioiont importance to the polisiiliig broach. The sluggish 
motion of wiitches now-a-days is more often attributable to 
roM},di jewels than to any other cause. 

To M AKK Di.vMoxn l''iLKS. — Shape your file of brass, and charge 
with (iiiiniond dust, as in case of the mill. (Irade the dust in 
.icrordiiiice witli the coarse or fine character of the file desired. 

To MAKK I'lvoT Fii.KS —Dress up a piece of wood file-fashion, 
nlmiit an inch broad, and glue a i)iece of fine emery paper upon it. 
iSiiapc your file then, as yon wish it, of the best cast steel, and 
liofoio tempering pass your emery paper heavily across it several 
times. tliii<:()iially. T«niper by heating to a cherrv red, and 
|ilimfri'ig into linseed oil. Ohl worn pivot files may be dressed over 
1111(1 iiiiide new l»y this process. At first thought one would be led 
to regiird them too sliglitly cut to work well, but not so. They 
dress a pivot more rapidly "than any other file. 

To M.\KK llti.NisnKiJ.s.— I'roceed 'the same as in making pivot 
lile;', witli the exception that you are to use fine flour of emery on 
a slip otOiled brass or cojij)er, instead of the emery paper. Hur- 
iiishers which have become too smooth may be improved vastly 
willi the Hour ofeineiy as above witlrMit drawing the temper. 

To I'liKi'AiiB A HcitMsiii'.ii FOR roi.isniNo. — Melt a little bcos'- 
w«.\ ot the^face of your bm-nisher. Its effect then on brass or 
niher liner metals, will be equal to the best buff. A small bur- 
iiishiT i)ie]iared in tiiis way is the very thing with which to polish 
up wiitcli wheels. iJest tiiem on a piece of pith wiiile polishing. 

To .Makk a Diamond Mir.i,.— Make a brass chuck or wheel, suit- 
jiiile for use on a foot-lati.e, with a flat even surface or face of 
iihoiit H or " inches in diameter; then jdace a number of the 
coarsest ])ieced of your diamond-dust on different parts of its face, 
and with a smooth-faced ste^l hammer driv(! the pieces of dust all 
evenly into tlie brass to nearly or (piile level with the surface. 
Voarinill. t!ins prepared, is now used for making i)allet jewels or 
for grinding stone and glass of any kind, F(^r polishing, use a 
lione (ir boxwood clinek or wheel, of similar form to your mill, and 
coat it ii^ditly with the finest grade of your diamond-dust anil oil ; 
with this a lieautifiil ])olish may be given to the hardest stone. 

To MAKK DiAMo.M) DiHT. — IMace a few snniU pieces of common 
or cheap diamond on a bloek of hard |)olished steel, in a suitable 
v(,=.-^el,and cover it witii water to j>revent fiyinrj or scattering, then 
place a flat steel i»unch on each piece separately, and strike the 
piimii with a mallet or ham ner, with snflicient force to crush the 
iliainond. When reduced sufliciently fine in this way, the dust 
iii!i\ he collected ami dri'"l for use ; after drying, it nuiy be gra- 
liiiated for dill'erent pnrjtoses, by mixing it with a little watch oil ; 
when aejilated, the finest particles will fh)at near the surface, whilg 







it ■ ^: .'.i 



ii % \ 



m< ;"■ 



150 WATCIIMAIvKllS, JhWELLKllS, AC, UEClillTS. 




ir 



the coarsest pieces will sink at once to the bottom; and thnsby 
decanting the oil in which tlie dust Hoats, as many grades of fine, 
nesd as desired may be ol)tained. The dust may ho separated from 
tlie oil by pouring on a i)iece of smooth clean paper; tiie paper will 
absorb the oil, or allow it to filter througii, while the dust will 
remain on the surface ; but to prevent waste, the better way isito 
leave it in the oil, and use it directly ihert'tVom as required, or the 
oil may be washed out of the dust with alcohol. 

To Polish Stkkl. — Take crocus or oxidc! of tin and graduate 
it in the same way ae in jireparing diamond dust, and apply it to 
the steel by means of a piece of sofJ iron or bell metal, uiade \my- 
per form, and prepared with Hour of emery, saun" as lor pivot Imr- 
fishers; use the coarsest of the ci'ocus first, and finish oW with tlic 
finest. To iron or soft steel a better finish may l>e given by hur- 
nishing than can be imparted by the use of [(olisliiu;^ iiowderof 
any kind whatever. 

To I)ETKItMI\K TIIK ExACT FoCAI. DlSTAN'CHO OF SfRCTACM 

(Jr.ASSEs. — Place the end of a measure of thirty or forty inches in 
length against a smooth wall, <»r other suitable ground, in plaia 
view of some wcdl-di'TuK^l object a few rods distant, as tor instuncn 
a building or window on the o|)posite side of the; street. Tlicti 
place the edge of your h'us on the measure, and move it baekwanl 
or forward until a siieetruiii is f'ornu'd, or, in other wonls, until a 
clear and distinct outline of the distant object is |)rodnci'd on th« 
ground against which your measure rests. This point will n'|in!- 
sent sufhciently near, for all practical purposes, the t'xact focal (lis- 
lance of the lens, ami will corresjtond in inches with the nuinlw 
on all projxMly niarkcMl convex si)e(iacles. For tnending fine steel 
spectacle frames, use the best gold in preference to silver or brasu 
solder. 

To wiTtiDUAw Macnetism puom SpKKr, ANT) Qi'irif«iiA-t;a from 
MSTAtiS. — A degrees of heat, coiisidernbly lielow a red heat, will 
expel (piicksilver tVoni metids in the form of vapor. To witlnlniw 
magnetism from steid, itc, cover tla; article with the juice of 
common garlic, and then warm it over a spirit lamp. Do not heat 
sufficiently to driiw the temper or Ijlue the steed. 

To i>KOTKCT Stonk ou Pastk Si:r-F{iN(!s, kv., fkom DiMAdH nv 
Heat wuilb AIe.voinc;. — Cover the heail or set part of the rin^', or 
other article, with a thick coating of (bimpeiied ])laster of l';iris, 
or sim])Iy imbiid tiie siime in a ]»iece of green apple «tr potatie. 
This will obviate all danger from heat din-ing the ;»rocess of 
mending. A light coat of dampeneil plaster of Paris will, if 
properly applied, also protect fine Etruscan jewellery, fee, tVonj 
change of color while mending. 

To FiiosT Watch Plates.— Watch plates are frosted by means 
of fine brass wire scratch brushes fixed in a lathe, and inade I) 
revolve at great speed, the end of the wire brushes striking the 
plate producing a beautiful frosted appearance. 

To prevent Watches losinc} Time from Ahtion of PENnt'LUM 
Spkino. — Pin the pendulum spring into the stud, so that that imrt, 
the j>art of the eye immediately emerging from the collet, and the 
centre of the collet, arc in a H-ne; then you will have the spriiij,' 
pinned in, in equal terms, as it is called by those who are versed 



WATtllMAKEllS, JEWELLERS, JtC, RECEIl'fS. 151 



in the iiiKlier bmnches of springing. Bring tlic watch to time by 
lidding tt) or tiiiiiiig from the baiaiicc, and poise it ; try the watch 
witii till' I- "P '"i" ^ hours, then witlj the «i up for 2 hours, theu 
]yj„jf down tor the same tune ; the trials liere •lescnbeil will hesulH* 
cit'iit if the watch hag seconds ; keep the curb pin.^ close so as 10 
iilliiw the sprnig only a little play ; the vibration of the balance 
sliouidbe l.i turn or 1^ Ijing. 

T(t iiKSTctUK Watch Dials. — If the duil be |)aintcd, clean the 
fijfiire oil' with spirits of wine, or anything else that will render 
tlif dial jK-rtectly clean ; then heat it to a bright red, and plungo 
It into a .strong solution ot cyanide of poiii.s.siuni, then wash in 
.s()ii|i and water, and drv in box dust. Repeat \i not u good color. 
Indian ink; ground witn gum water, will do for the figures. 
'ToMAKKA Watch Kkki' oooo Ti,mk whkn thk CvM.NnKii edok3 

AUK WOHN (»KF, IJY ALTKIU.NO TUB KsCAHKMKNT WITHOUT I'UTTINCJ A 

NKW (Jvi.iNiiKU IN.— Look at the cylinder, and see if there is room, 
eiilitr aliove »jr below the old wears, to shift the actiim of Ibe 
wlni'i. If tilt! wheel hoh'S are brass, making one a little deeper, 
and piitting a shallower one en the otht.'r side, will perhaps be sulli- 
cuiit. This must be done according as you want yourwhe lup 
or down, if the hides are stone, shift yuur wheel on the pinion by 

II III \v colKt, or turning away luore of the old one, as the ca.se may 
rc'iiuire. If y<iu raise yuur wheel see that it works free of plate. 
and toj) of cylinder, and that the web of wheel clears the top ot 
jiussagi'. This last fault may be altered by polishing passage a 
little wider, it rub be slight. If shifted downwards, see lu freeduuj 
at liottoiii of cylinder, &c. 

I'oiswi Watch I'.ai,an(;e.— This may be done with .sufTicient accu- 
racy by scraping one arm of the callipers with a file when the baluiico 
is .'Jt't ill motion, This will cause the hea\ iest juirt to settle down- 
ward.s with certainty, observing always that the juvots are nictly 
round('(l and formed at the ends. In some cases it becomes neci-s- 
8ury to put a balance out ofpoi.se, in order to make the watch go 
i'(|iially in various positions. The rule for this is : to make the 
watili gain, the balance should bt; heaviest un the lower side when 
hanging up ; to make it lose, the reverse. 

Cl( Koo Clocks. — The sound is produced by a wire acting on a 
small billows which is connected with two small pipes, like organ 

|)ll.l-.S. 

To I'ltESEUVK Pinions oii Hearings from Corrosion and Rust. — In 
case of the lower centre bearing under the luuiioii pinion corroding 
or rusting, when yon clean the watch, be piirticular to take the 
ci'iitral wheel off. Clean it thoroughly ; if the pivot is scratched, 
|ioiisli It, then make a little hollow in the top hole ; put good fresh 
oil oil It, and the [»ivot will not corrode or rust for two or three 
yiars. As to the other pivots in the watch, they should all be 
I'loriiughly clemied, and old oil cleaned out; then if no dust gets in, 
and no accident happens the watch, it will run for years. 

TiiK Gkhman method ok Polishino Steel is performed by the use 

III HOCUS on u l)uff wheel. Nothing can exceed the surpassing 
iH'aiity imparted to steel or even cast iron by this process. 

To Clea.v a Clock. — Take the movement of the clock " to 
pucis.' Ijrusli the wheels and pinions tliuroughly with a stilf 











i-mUl^g^ti/mr- 



d^MM^iikii 



ii 



I « 






• 

• 

^8 



»i 



i 



i vr • 






152 WATCiniAKEUS, JEWELLERS, AC, UECEU'Ts. 

C(»iir8e brush ; also the \Ai\U'a into whicth the trains work. Cleaa 
the jtivots wi'll by turiiinj» in a piece of cotton ch)tli held tij^htly 
between your thumb and linger. The pivot holes in the plftt'sare 

fjcne rally cleansed by turning a piece of wood into tlitin, hut I 
save always found a strip of cloth or a soft cord drawn tightly 
through them to act the beat. If you use two cords, the first 
one slightly oiled, and the next dry, to clean the oil out, all the 
better. Do not use salt or acid to clean }our clock — it can do no 
good, but may do a great deal of harm. JJoiling the movement io 
W'lter. as in the practice of some, is also foolishness. 

To IJi'Hii — The hole through which the great arbors, or winding 
axles, W(»rk, are the only ones that usually require bushing. Whin 
they have become t«>o much worn, the great wheel on thcn.xle 
before named strikes too deeply into the pinions above it, audatoiii 
the clock. To remedy this, bushing is necessarv, of course. TIic 
most common way of doing it is to drive a steel point or punch 
into the plate just above the axle iiole, thus forcing the brass (hwn- 
wards until the liole is reduced to its original size. Another mode 
is to solder a piece of brass upon the jilate in such a position ns to 
hold tilts axle down to its proper place. If you simply wisli your 
clock to run, and have no ambition to produce a bush that will look 
workmanlike, about as good a way as any is to fit a piece of imril 
wood between the post which comes through the top of the plaif 
nnd the axle. .Make it long enough to hold the axle to its proper 
place, so that the nxle will run on the end of the grain. Cut 
notches where the pivots come through, and secure by wrap])in(r 
around it and the plate a piece of anuill wire, or a thread, 1 liavc 
known clocks to run well on this kind of bushing, botchifii-d as it 
may appear, for ten year?. 

To Ukmkdy Wohn Pinions. — Tiirn the leaves or rollers, so the 
worn places upon them will be towards the arbor or slial't, and 
fasten them in that jiosition. If they are " rolling pinions," and 
you cannot secure them otherwise, you had better do it with alittlo 
soft solder. 

To Oil Properly.— Oil only, and very lightly, the i)allcts of the 
verge, the steel pin upon which the verge works, and the point 
where the loop of the verge wire works over the jienduliua wire. 
Use none but the best watch oil. Though you mignt be ttiirkin;; 
constantly at the clock-repairing business, a bottle costing you but 
twenty-tivo cents would last you two years at least. V<tu can 
buy It at any watch-furnishing establishment. 

To Makb tiik Clock Stkike (/okrectly. — If not very caiitiona 
in putting up your clock, you will get some of the striking-traia 
wheels in wrong, and thus produce a derangement in the striking. 
If this should hai)i)en, prize the ])late3 ajiart on the striking side, 
slip the pivots of the ujijjer Wheels out, and having disconnectod 
thera from the train, turn them i)art around and put them bi'ok. 
If still not right, rejjeat the experiment. A few clTorts at most 
will get them to working projierly. 

A Depkct to look after. — Always examine the pendulum-wire 
at the point where the loop of the verge wire works over It. Von 
will generally find a small notch, or at least a rough place worn 
there. Dress it out perfectly smooth, or your clock will not he 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, 



AC, RECEIPTS. 



153 



likely to work well. »Sinall as thu defect may seem, it stops a 
larKi' miuibcr of clucks. 

Fim'HES ON (JoM) AND SiLVKii DiALS. — llold a Biniill i)it'ce of cop- 
iKTOvt-r a jriis tliune for a f«w niiiiute.4 till it is coaled with soot: 
cluar tills oir on to a niece uf fiiicly ground i!;his?, add fat oil and 
iisniall (|miiitily of oil of spike lavender, and grind up; paint with 
IV small caiiu-i fiair pencil. 

(Joi.ii.— To lind the number of carats of gold in an object, first 
wcij^h the gold and mix with seven times its weight in silver. 
This alloy i.s beaten into thin leaves, and nitric acid is added ; this 
dissolves the silver and copper. The remainder (gold) is tlu-n 
fiKscd and weighed ; by comparing the first and last weights the 
niiinbor of carats of pure gold is found. This operation is always 
ropcatcd several times, and if any dilfercnce occurs in the result, 
iill is (lone over again. 

Jewki.i.ek.s' Ali-oys. — Eii/fttcen-carut mid for rings.— (^oXd coin, 
!0j gr. ; pure coi)per, 3 gr. ; pure silver, \\ gr. Chea}! gold, 
^<y7iv'-f(//'//.— Gold coin, 2r) gr. ; pure copper, I.'Jjl gr. ; pire silver, 
7j gr. IVr// cluiij) four-carat t/oltl. — Copper, IH parts; gold, 4 
jmrts : silver, 2 parts. Jmitaliorm <fgold. — I, I'latina, 4 dwt. ; j)ure 
cojtiKT, 2i dwt.; sheet-zinc, 1 dwt.; block-tin, IJ dwt.; pure lead, 
lidwt. if this shoidd be found too hard or brittle for practical 
use, rt-iiicUing ihe composition with a little sal-ammoniac will 
gi'iienilly render it malleable as desired. 2. Platina, 2 parts ; sil- 
Tcr, 1 part; copper, '.i pnrts. These compositions, when properly 
pri'iiiircil, so nearly resend)le pure gold that it is very diflicult to 
di.sliiiguish them therefrom. A little i)owderod charcoal, mixed 
nitli metals while melting, will be found of service. JJest oroide of 
i/ulil.—VnrQ copp(!r, 4 oz. ; sheet-zinc, lij oz. ; magnesia, ^ oz. ; 
sal-animonia, i-i oz., (juick-Iime, -jV oz. ; cream tartar, I oz. First 
melt the copi)er at as low a temperature as it will melt; then add 
tlio KJnc, and afterwards the other articles, in powder, in the order 
named. Use a charcoal lire to melt these metals. 

J{r8niN(} Alloy vom 1'ivot-moles, <&c.— Gold coin, ^ dwt. ; silver, 

1 dwt. 20 gr. ; copper, 3 dwt. 20 gr. ; palladium, 1 dwt. The best 
•omposition known for the j)uriiorie named. 

(loi.I) SoLDKU FOR Fol'IfTKEN TO Sl.XTEKN-OAItAT WoUK. — Gold 

coin, 1 dwt. ; ])ure silver, !) gr. ; pure copi)er, (! gr. ; brass, 3 gr. 
J)(irki r ndlder. — (J(dd coin, 1 Jwt. ; pur*' copjuT, 8 gr. ; pure silver, 
,') gr. ; brass, 2 gr. ; melt together in charcoal lire. 
SoLDiC! s, Kiiu (!oM>. — Gold, G dwts. ; silver, 1 dwt. copper, 

2 dwis. SoKT GoLO SoLDLK. — Gold, 4 parts; silver, 1 part ; cup- 
pci, I part. 

SdLiiKits Foil SiLVEi!.— (For the use of jewellers.) — Fine silver, 11) 
dwts.; coi'per, 1 dwt. ; slieet brass, 10 dwts. 

WriiTK Soi.oKa Kou f^iLVEii. — Silvtu', 1 oz. ; tin, 1 oz. 

Sii.vEa SoLi>KH, Kou l*L.\'j'Ki) Metal. — Fiiie silver, 1 oz. ; brass, 
10 dwts. 

iSoi.iiKits. — For Steel Joints. Silver, 19 parts ; copper, 1 part ; 
brass, 2 parts ; melt all together. Jiurd Solder. — Copper, 2 parts ; 
zinc, 1 part; riudt together. For (jold. — 1. Silver, 7 parts ; cop- 
per, 1 part, with l)oriuc. 2. Gold, 2 parts; silver, 1 part; copper, 
1 part. 3 G(dd, 3 parts ; silver, 3 parts; copper, 1 part ; zinc, \ 




I 



)\ 



i A 




,.^... 










IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




1.0 



1^128 

■^ ISA 



g5 
2.2 



I.I 




1^ 

HE 


L25 


1'-^ 


|l.6 



6" 



V] 






S^ 

^ 



.V 








V 






/A 



Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. MSSO 

(716)872-4503 







t^ I 



%" 




l54 WAtCIIMAKERS, JEVVELLEllS, &0., REfJElPTS. 



for 5??i'er.— Silver, 2 pdrts 



a*ii 




■*'. -i- 



part ... 

silver, 4 parts ; brass, A parts ; zinc, ,^i 



brags, 1 part, with borax ; or, 
part, with borax. For 



j&f rass.— Copper, 3 parts ; z'lic, 1 part, with borax. For Platina.— 
Gold, with borax. For Iron. — The best solder for iron is gond 
tough brass, with a little borax. For Copper.— lirass, G parts; 
zinc, 1 part ; tin, I part ; melt all together, mix well, and pour out 
to cool. 

Cold Solders. — 1. Copper, 24.24 parts ; silver, 27 57 parts; 
gold, 48.19 parts. 2. Knamel Solder. — Copper, 25 parts ; silver, 
7.07 parts ; gold, 07.93 parts. 3. Copper, 2G.25 parts ; zinc, G.25 
parts; silver, 31.25 parts; gold, 36.25 jurts. 4. Enamel Solder.— 
Hilver, 19.57 parts ; gold, 80.43 parts. 

SoLDKu. — For 22 caral gold. — Gold of ?2 carats, I dwt. ; silver, 2 
gr. ; copper, 1 gr. For 18 carat (/old.— Gold, of 18 carats, 1 dwt ; 
silver, 2 gr. ; copper;" 1 gr. 

For cheaper gold. — Gold, 1 dwt. ; silver, 10 gr. •, copper, 8 gr. 

Cheaper still. — Fine gold, 1 dwt. ; silver, 1 dwt.; copper, 1 dv/t. 

t-'iLVER SoLDF.Rs — 1. {hard.) Coj)per, 30 parts; zinc, 12.85 parts; 
sdver, 57.15 parts. 2 Copper, 23.33 parts; zinc, 10.00. parts; 
silver. 66.67 parts, 4. Copper, 26.66 parts; zinc, 10.00 parts; 
silver, 63.34 parts. 4 (.<?o/if.) Copper, 14.75 parts; zinc, 8.20 ])a"ts; 
silver, 77.05 parts, 5 Copper, 22.34 parts; zinc, 10.48 parts; sil- 
ver, 67 18 i»art&. G. Tin, 63.00 parts; lead, 37 parts. 

Coha'-iRH {jO\,Xi.—\. Full red gold. — Gold ' 



5 dwt. 



copper, 5 dwt. 
2. Red gold.— GiAd, 10 dwt.; silver, 1 dwt.; copper, 4 dwt. 3. 
Green Gold. — Gold, 5 dwt.; silver, 21 gr. 4. Gray gold. — Gold, 3 
dwt. 15 gr. ; silver, 1 dwt. 9 gr. 5. Blue gold. — Gold, 5(lwt. ; 
steel filing.'!, 5 dwt. 6. Autique gold, greenish-yelloiv ador.—VnAA, 
18 dwt. 9 gr. ; silver, 21 gr. ; copper, 18 gr. These all require to 
1)0 submitted to the process of wet-coloring. 7. Factitious gold, 
very //n>/A/. — Copper, 16 parts; platina, 7 parts; zinc, 1 part; fused 
together. 

Alloys for Gold. — 1. Red ^oZrf— Copper, 66.67 parts ; gold, 
33.33 parts. 2. Yellow gold. — Copper, 12.50 parts; silver, 37.50 

?arts ; gold, 50 parts. 3. Green gold.— S'llw-r, 25 parts; gold, 
5 parts. 4. Velloto gold.— S\\\'(}r,M.(\l \)av[s; gold, 33.33 parts. 5. 
Gray gold. — Silver, 5.89 jiarts ; gold, 88.23 parts ; iron, 5.89 parts. 6. 
JJentists' gold. — Silver, 8.34 parts ; platinum, 66.67 i)arts ; gold, 
24.29 parts. 7. FJnghsh gold coin. — Copper, 8.34 parts ; gold, 91.00 
jiarts. American gold coin. — Coj>per, 10 parts; gold, 90 parts. 
French g(dd coin same as American. 

Alloys for Silv'kr Coin and Plate. — 1 Fnylish standard^.—' 
Copper, 7.50 parts; silver, 92.50 parts. 2. American ditto. — Cop- 
l)er, 10 parts; silver, 90 parts. French, the same. 

GiLDiNO Mrtal for common jewellery is made by mixing 4 parts 
ropper with one of calamine brass. Sometimes 1 lb. copper, with 
6 oz. of brass. 

Dkntists' Plate.— No. 1 Gold,20dwts. ; silver, 1 dwt. ; copper, 2 
dwts. 2. Gold, 21 , silver, 2; copper, 1. 

Jkwkllehs' SoLDEKiNO Fluid. — Muriatic acid, ^ pt. ; grain zinc, l.V 
oz. Dissolve, and add a little commoti solder and sal-amnKjniac. 

Gold for SiMiiNGB.— Gold, 18 dwts. 12 grs. ; silver, 6 dwts, ; cop- 
per, 5 dwts. 



or. 



1 13 good 
'> parts; 
pour Out 



silvor, 



;s ; gold 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 155 

jF.iVELLERS' Gold Compositions. — Common Gold: Silver, 1 part ; 
Spanish copper, 16 parts; gold, 2 parts; mix. Ring Gold: Spanish 
copper, 6 parts; silver, 3 parts; gold, 5 parts; mix. Manheim 
Gold: copper, 3 parts; zinc, 1 part. Melt, and stir "vrell. Mosaic 
Gold: copper and zinc, equal parts ; melt at the lowest tempera- 
ture that will fuse the former, then mix by stirring, and add 5 per 
cent, more zinc. JParker's Mosaic Gold: copper, 100 parts; zinc, 
54 ports. For common Jewellery : copper, 3 parts; 1 of old brass, 
and 4 oz. of tin to every lb. of copper. 

Factitious Gold. — Copper, IG parts ; platinum, 7 parts ; zinc, 
ipart; fused tof^ether. This alloy resembles' gold of IG carats 
fine, or I, and will resist the action of nitric acid, unle'ss very con- 
centrated and boiling. 

IIahmstaut'.s True Imitation of Gold is stated not only to resem- 
ble ^^uld in color, but also in specific gravity and ductility. Plat- 
inum, 10 ])arts; copper, 7 parts ; zinc, 1 i)art; put it in a crucible, 
cover with charcoal powder, and melt into a mass. 

brass, 2 oz. ; pure silver, 3 oz. 



common salt, 1 oz. ; arsenic, 1 



Do. OP Silver. — Copper, \ oz. 
bismuth, 2 oz. ; saltpetre, 2 oz. 

oz. ; potash, 1 oz. ; melt in a crucible with powdered char- 
coal. This compound, was by a German chemist for unlawful 
purposes, was so perfoct that he v^ ts never discovered. 

Aurik'ici. L (iOld. — This is a naw metallic alloy which is now 
very extensively used in Fiance as a substitute for gold. Pure 
copper, 100 parts ; zinc, or, preferably, tin, 17 parts ; magnesia, 6 
parts; sal-ammoniac, 3-G parts; qnick-lime, i!^ part; tartar of 
commerce, 9 parts ; are mixed as follows : The copper is first 
molted, and the magnesia, sal-ammoniac, lime and tartar are then 
added separately, and by degrees, in tha form of powder ; the 
wliol(! is now briskly stirred for about J an hour, so as to mix thor- 
oughly ; and then the zinc iS added in small grains by throwing 
it on the surface, and stirring till it is entirely fTused : the crucible 
i.s then covered, and the fusion maintained for about 35 minutes. 
The surface is then skimmed, and the alloy is ready for casting. 
It has a fine grain, is malleable, and takes a splendid polish. It 
does not corrode readily, and, for many purposes, is an excellent 
substitute for gold. When tarnished, its brilliancj'' can be restored 
by a little acidulated water. If tin be employed instead of zinc, 
the alloy Avill be more brilliant. It is very much used in France^ 
and must ultimately attain equal popularity here. 

New Fhenoii Patent A£lov for Silver. — Messieurs De Ruolz 
& Fonteuay have invented the following alloy, which may be used 
for almost all purposes in which silver is usually applied. Silver, 
20 parts ; purified nickel, 28 parts ; copper, 52 parts. Melt the 
copper and nickel in the granular state, then mtroduce the silver. 
The flux to be employed is charcoal and borax, both in the state of 
powder; and the ingots obtained are to be rendered malleable by 
annealing for a considerable time in powdered charcoal. 

Enolisii Sta.ndard for Silver. — Pure silver, 11 oz. 2 dwts. ; 



copper, 22 dwts. ; melt. 

Silver Imitations. — Copper, 1 lb. ; tin, ^ oz. ; 
position will roll and ring very near to silver, 
copper, 1 lb. ; tin, 1 lb. ; regulus of antimony, 2 lbs. ; molt toge- 



melt. This cora- 
Britannia Metal : 



I !■ 








15C WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &0., REOEIi'TS. 



ther, witb or without a little bismuth. Genuine German Silver: 
iron, 2j parts; -'''id, 31} parts; zinc, 25J parts; copper, 40J 
parts ; melt. Fine White German Silver : iron, 1 part ; nickel, 10 
parts; zinc, 10 parts ; copper, 20 parts; melt. Finchheck: copper, 
5 parts; zinc, 1 part ; melt the copper,- then add the zinc. Jewel- 
lers^ Metal : copper, 30 parts ; tin, 7 parts ; brass, 10 parts ; mix. 



parts; copper, 8 ports. 2. 
Gold, 75 parts ; copper, 25 



French Gold" Plate.— 1. Gold, 92 
Gold, 84 parts ; copper, 16 parts. 3. 
parts. 

BiDERY.— Copper, 48.48 parts ; tin, G.GO parts ; zinc, 33.80 parts ; 
lead, 12.12 parts. 

Best Bra^s for Clocks. — Rose copper, 85 parts; zinc, 14 parts; 
lead, 1 part 



Alloy for Watch Pinion Sockets.— Gold, 31 parts ; 



silver, 10 



parts ; copper, 39 parts ; palladium, 1 p^rt 

Pickle, for Frosting and Whitening Silver Goods.— Sulphuric 
acid, 1 dr. ; water, 4 oz. : heat the pickle, and immerse the silver in 
it until frosted as desired ; then wash off clean, and dry with a ?ot't 
linen cloth, or in line clean sawdust. For whitening only, a smaller 
proportion of acid may be used. 

EvRUSCAN Gold Coloring. — Alum, 1 oz. ; fine table-sal^, 1 oz.; 
saltpetre (powdered), 2 oz. ; hot rain-water, sufficient to make the 
solution, when dissolved, about the consistency of thick ale ; then 
add sufficient muriatic acid to produce the color desired. Tlie 
degree of success must always depend, in a greater or less degree, 
upon the skill or judgment of the operator. The article to bo co- 
lored should be from fourteen to eighteen carats fine, of pure g.'ld 
and copper only, and be free from coatings of tin or silver solder. 
Tlie solution is best used warm, and when freshly made the {irin- 
ciple on which it acts ie to eat out the copper alloy from the siir- 
f ice of the article, leaving thereon pure, frosted gold only. After 
coloring, wash off, first in rain-water, then in alcohol^ and dry 
without rubbing, in fine clean sawdust. Fine Etruscan jewellery, 
that has beon.defaced or tarnished by use, may be perfectly renewed 
by the same process. 

Tarnish on Electro-Plate Goods may be removed by immers- 
ing the article from one to ten or fifteen minutes, or until the tar- 



nish has been 
Rain- water, 2 



removed, but no longer, in the following solution 



gals. ; cyanuret potassa, ^ lb. ; dissolve, and put 
into a stone jug or jar and closely cork. After immersion, tlie 
articles must be taken out and thoroughly rinsed in two or three 
waters, then dried wito a soft linen cloth, or, if frosted or chased 
wo:k, with fine clean sawdust. Tarnished jewellery may be speed- 
ily restored by this process ; but make sure work of removing the 
alkali, otherwise it will corrode the goods. 

A Bright Gold Tinge may be given to silver by steeping it for 
a suitable length of time in a weali solution of sulphuric acid and 
water strongly impregnated with iron-rust. 

To Refine Gold. — If you desire to refine your gold from the 
bnser metals, swedge or roll it out very thin, then cut into narrow 
strips and curl up so as to prevent its lying fiatly. Drop the pieces 
tlms prepared into a vessel containing good nitric acid, in the jiro- 
J)ortion of acid, 2 oz., and pure rain-water, J oz. Suffer to remain 



lan Silver : 
opper, 4oi 
■ ■ " 10 



nickel. 



■k: CO 
nc. 



wper, 
■lewd' 



)arts ; mix. 

^ ports. 2. 

copper, 25 

3.80 i)arts ; 

!, 14 parts; 

, silver, 15 

-Sulphuric 
3e silver in 
with a ?oh 
, a smaller 

ial^, 1 oz.; 
) luiike tiie 
ale ; then 
ired. Tlie 
!ss degree, 
to be co- 
pure g')](i 
vcr solder. 
! the jifin- 
n the sur- 
ly. After 
I, and dry 
jewellery, 
y renewed 

y immers- 
;il the tar- 
solution ; 
and put 
rsion, tlie 
or three 
or chased 
bo spced- 
oving the 

ling it for 
; acid and 

from tlio 
to narrow 
the pieces 
n the pro- 
to re 111 a ill 



WATCllMAKEttS, JeWeILE'RS, AC,, RECEIPTS. 157 

until tlun'oughly dissolved, which will be the case in from ^ an hour 
to I lioiir. Then pour olf the liquid carefully, and you will find the 
rold in the form of a yellow i)0wder, lying at the bottom of the 
vessel. Wash this with pure water till it ceases to have an acif^ 
taste after which you may melt and cast into any form you choose. 
Gold' treated in this way may be relied on as perfectly pure. 

In melting gold use none other than a charcoal fire, and during 
the process sprinkle saltpetre and potash into the crucible occasion- 
ally. L)o not attempt to melt with stone coal, as it renders the 
metal brittle and otherwise imperfect. 

To KemneSilveu. — Dissolve in nitric acid as in the case of the 

pold. When the silver has entirely disappeared, add to the 2^ oz. 

B of Hoiution nearly 1 quart of pure rain-water. Sink, then, a sheet of 

cloiin copper into it ; the silver will collect rapidly upon the copper, 

and you can scrape it off and melt into bulk at ])leasure. 

In the event of your refining gold in accordance with the fore- 
going formula, and the impurity was silver, the only stejis neces- 
sary to save the latter would be to add the above named propor- 
tion of water to the solution poured from the gold, and then to 
proceed \'ith your copper plate asjust directed. 

To Refi ve Copper.— This process differs from the one employed to 
refine silvc r in no respects save the plate to be immersed ; you use 
an iron instead of a copper plate to collect the raetJil. 

If tlie impurities of gold refined were both silver and copper, you 
might, after saving the silver as above directed, sink yonr iron plate 
into the solution yet remaining, and take out the copper. The 
parts of alloyed gold may be separated by these processes, and 
leave each in a perfectly pure state. 

Cold Silveuin(j of Metals. — Mix 1 part of chloride of silver 
with 3 parts of pearlash, \\ parts common salt, and 1. part 
whiting ; and well rub the mixture on the surface of brass or copper 
(previously well cleaned), by means of a jiiece of soft leather, or 
a cork moistened with water and dipped in the powder. When 
properly silvered, the metal should be well washed in hot water, 
slightly alkalized ; then wiped dry. 

To llEKiUTEN Tiin CoLOH OF Yellow Gold. — Saltpetre, G oz. ; 
green copjieras, 2 oz. ; white vitriol and alum, of each I oz. If 
wanted redder, a small quantity of blue vitriol must be added. 

For (liiEKN Gold. — Saltpetre, 1 oz. 10 dwis. ; aal-ammoniac, 1 oz. 
4(lwts.; Roman vitriol, I oz. 4 dwts. ; verdigris, IH dwts. 

To Clean Gilt Jewellery. — Boiling water in a clean flask, \ pt. ; 
cyanide of potassium, 1 oz. ; shake the flask to dissolve the jKitas- 
siuni. Add, when cold, liquor ammonia, \ oz. ; rectihed alcohol, 1 
oz. Used by brushing over gilded articles. 

CoLORiNo Jewellery. — Boil the articles in a dilut" solution of 
torchloride of gold, to which some bicarbonate of soda has been 
added. 

Coloring of Gildino. — Defective colored gilding may also be 
improved by the help of the following mixture : nitrate of potash, 
'^ OZ. ; alum, 1^ oz. ; sulphate of zinc, 1^ oz. ; common salt, 1| oz. 
These ingredients are to be put into a small quantity of water to 
form a sort of paste, which is put upon the articles to be coloied ; 
they are then placed upon an iron plate over a clear fire, so that 



t ; 



n *• 



}r..^ < 



^ m hi 



1 I* «i , 



J', 




^ 



^mu 









laS WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., RECElt'TS. 

thoy will attain nearly to a black lieat, wlien tlicy aro sndrlonly 
jilungocl into cultl watiT ; tins gives tlioni a heantit'iil liigli color. 
Dillcrcnt hues may be iiad by a variation in the mixture. 

For Rva) Gold. — To 4 oz. melted yello'.v wax, add, in fine 
j)Owdcr, I^ oz. ot red ochre ; I2 oz. verdigris, calcined till ityu'ldg 
110 fumes; and ^ oz. of calcined borax, Mix tiiem wed! toirc'tlier. 
Dissolve either of above mixtures in wuter, as the color is wanted, 
and use as required. 

Gold is taken from the surface of silver by spreading over it a 
paste made of powdered sal-ammoniac, w'th acjuafortis, and licat- 
ing it till the matter smokes, and it is nearly dry ; when the gold 
may be separated by rubbing it with a scratch brush. 

AIouLDS AND Dies. — Copper, zinc, and silver in ecpial proportions; 
!)ielt together under a coat of jiovvdereci charcofil, ami mould into 
the form you desire. Bring thein to nearly a white heat, mid Ir.y 
on the thing you would take tiu^ impression ot, jtress with sulliciunt 
force, and you will get a perfect and heaiitiful impression. 

Polishing Powder for Gold and Silver. — Rock alum burnt and 
linely powdered, 5 parts ; levigated cL. Ik, 1 part. Mix; apply with 
a dry brush. 

8ilver-Platino Fluid. — Dissolve 1 ounce of nitrate of silver, m 
crystals, in 12 ounces of soft water ; then dissolve in the water 2 oz. 
cyanuret ofpotasli; shake the whole together, and let it stand till 
it becomes clear, llave ready some half-ounce vials, and fill half 
full of Paris white, or fine whiting; and then fill up the buttles 
with the liquor, and it is ready for use. Tlie whiting does not 
increa.se the coating powder ; it onlj' helps to clean tiie articles, and 
save the silver fluid by half filling the bottles. 

Jewellers' Armenian Cement. — Isinglass soaked in water and 
♦lissolved in spirit, 2 oz. (thick) ; dissolve in this 10 grs. of. very 
jiale gum ammonia (in tears) by rubbing them together , then add 
large tears of gum mastic, dissolved in the least possible quantity 
of rcctified spirit. When carefully made, this cement resists 
moisture and driec colorless. Keep in a closely stopped |)hial. 
• Jewellers' Turkish Cement. — Put into a bottle 2 oz. of isinglass 
and 1 oz. of the be,<t gum arabic ; cover them with proof spirit,s, 
cork loosely, and plnce the bottle in a vessel of water, and b(til it 
till a tliorough solution is effected ; then strain for use ; best cement 
kn<nvn. 

Revive for Old Jewellery. — Dissolve sal-ammoniac iti iirino 
and put the jewellery in it for a short time ; then t"-ke it out, uud 
rub with chamois leather, and it will apj)e(ir etpial to new 

To Recover Gold from Gilt Metal. — Take a .solution of borax 
water, ap[dy to the gilt surface, and sprinkle over it some finely 
))Owdcred sulphur; make the article red hot, and (piencli it in 
water ; then scrape off the gold, and recover it by means of 
lend. 

To Separate Gold and Silver from Lace, kc. — (^ut in pieces 
the gold or silver lace, tie it lightly, and boil it in soaj) he till the 
size appears diminished ; take the cloth out of the liepud, and, 
at'ter repeated rinsings in coM water, beat it with a mallet fodiaw 
out all the alkali Open the linen, and the pure metal will 
be fouml in all its beautv 



'TS. 

'ig'li color. 

I'l, in fine 

ill It yields 

11 tosietliiT. 

is wanted, 

ij? over It a 

iind heat- 

iii the gold 

'0[iortinns ; 

loiild into 

!fvt, iiiid hy 

1 suflicient 
III. 

burnt (ind 
apply with 

f silver, m 
water 2 07,. 
t stdnd till 
lul till half 
tlio bottles 
? does not 
rticles, and 

wator and 
frs. of. very 
; llieii add 
lo quantity 
*nt resists 
pliiai. 
)f isinfflass 
oof spirits, 
u\il boil it 
frit ceineut 

c ill iirino 
it out, and 

u of liorax 
onio finely 
nch It in 
moans of 



in piocos 
ye till the 
|uid, and, 
it todiiiw 
leta! will 



Watchmakers, jewkllers, &c., receipts. 151) 

I'll IIaki) SoLDKR Gold, Silveu, Copper, Brass, Iron, Strpl oh 
l>, ^.|.ij,.v._T1h! solders to be used for gold, silver, copper and brass 
me piveii in tiic pniceding part. You commence operations hv 
ifidiieing your solder to small particles, and mixing it with 
iMiwderiTd sal-ammoniac and powdered l)orax in (-(pial parts, moist- 
ened to make it hold together. Having fitt^ed up the joint to be 
soldered, you secure tie article upon a piece of soft charcoal, lay 
your sohleiing mixture immediately over the joint, and then Avilh 
your blow-pipe turn the flame of your lamp upon it until fusion 
takes !)lace. The job is then done, and ready to be cooled and 
dressed up. 

Iron is usually soldered with copper or brass in accordance with 
the above process. The best solder for steel is pure gold or [)ure 
silver, though gold or silver solders are often used successfully. 

Platina can only be soldered v.'ell with gold ; and the expense of 
it, therefore, contributes to the hindrance of a general use of platina 
vessels, even for chemical jturposes, where tliey are of so much 
iinitortiince. 

To Soft Solder Articles. — Moisten the parts to be united with 
iolderiiig fluid ; then, having joined them together, lay a smnU 
piece of solder upon the joint and hold over your lamp, or direct 
the blaze upcm it with your blow-pipe until fusion is apparent. 
Withdraw them from the blaze immediately, as too much heat v/ill 
render the solder brittle and unsatisfactory. When the parts to be 
joined can be made to s])ring or press against each other, it is best 
to place a thin piece of soMer between them before exposing to tlie 
hmn. 

Where two smooth surfaces are to besoKlered one upon tlie other, 
joii may make an excellent job by moistening them with the fluid, 
»inil then, having placed a sheet of tin foil between them, holding 
them ])ressed firmly together over your lamp till the foil melts. If 
the surfaces fit nicely, a joint be may made in this Avay so close as 
to be almost imperceptible. The brightest looking load which 
comes as a lining to tea boxes works better in the same way than 
tin foil. 

To Cleanse Gold Tarnished in Solderixo. — The old English 
mode was to expose all parts of the article to a uniform heat, allow 
it to cool, and then boil until bright in urine and sal-ammoniac. It 
is now usiia'.cy cleansed with diluted sul|)huric acid. The ])iolcle 
is made in about the i»roportion of one-eighth of an ounce acid to 
one ounce rain water. 

To (vleanse SiLVKR TarnishBd in Soldering. — Some expose to 
a uniform heat, as in the case of gold, and then boil in strong 
alum water. Others immerse tor a considerable length of time in 
rt li<inid made of i oz. of cyannrot potassa to 1 [lint rain water, and 
then brush off with ])repared clialk. 

Hkautiful Kronzk for Lpatiier. — Dissolve a little of the so- 
cfilled insoluble analine violet in a little water, and brush the solu- 
tion over the leather ; after it dries, repeat the process. 

Nickkl-Platino. — The following is the substance of the patent 
f,'ranfed to Dr. Isaac Adnms, March 22,1870. The process is highly' 
siieees«ful. "This improvement consists in the use of 3 new 
solutions from which to deposit nickel by the electric current. 



■■"mu-y 



'^'■%m- 




l1 'l 



ii"" frH Wit \ ' 
¥t' I'll 

■ii rl'. 

'^ r 




■'rfw^-r ■=&«*»■' 



-MjLI 



160 Wi^'^CtlMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., tlECElHg. 

1. A solution formed of the double sulphate of nickel andaluinina 
or the sulphiite of nickel dissolved in a solution of soda, iiotasli' 
or ammonia alumj the three different varieties of cornnierciai 
alum. 2. A solution formed of the double sidphate of nickel 
and potash. 3. A solution formed of the double sulphate of 
nickel and magnesia, with or without an excess of ammo- 
nia. I have found that a good coating of nickel can be depo- 
sited from the solutions before mentioned, provided ther are pre- 
pared and used in such a manner as to be free from any acid or 
alkaline reaction. Wben these solutions are used, great care most 
be taken, lost by the use of too high battery ])ovver, or from the 
introduction of some foreign matters, the scdution becomes acid or 
alkaline. I prefer to use these solutions at a temperature above 
100*^ Fah., but do not limit my invention to the use of those .solu- 
tions at that temperature. I therefore claim, 1. The electro depo- 
sition of nickel by means of a solution of the double sidpliatcof 
nickel and alumina, prepared and used in such a manner as to be 
free from the presence of ammoiua, i)otash, soda, lime, or nitric 
acid, or from any acid or alkaline reaction. 2. The electro deposi- 
tion of nickel by means of a solution of the double sulphate of 
nickel and potash, prepared and used in such a manner as tdlxi 
free from the presence of ammonia soda, alumina, lime or nitric 
acid, or from any acid or alkaline reaction. 3. The electro depo- 
sition of nickel by means of a solution of the double sulphate of 
nickel and magnesia, prepared and used in such a manner as to be 
free from the presence of potash, soda, alumina, lime or nitric acid, 
or from any acid or alkaline reaction. " 

To MAKE Silver Solution fou Elkctho-Platino. — Put together 
into a glass vessel 1 oz. good silver, made thin and cut into strips; 
2 oz. best nitric acid, and J oz. pure rain water. If solution does 
not begin at once, add a little more water — continue to add a very 
little at a time till it does. In the event it starts off well, hut stops 
before the silver is fully dissolved, you may generally start it up 
again all right by adding a little more water. 

When solution is entirely effected, add 1 quart of warm rain 
water and a large tablespoonful of table salt. Shake well and let 
settle, then i)roceed to pour off and wa.^h through other waters as 
in the case of the g(dd i)reparation. When no longer acid to the 
to,ste, put in an ounce and an eighth cyanuret i)otassa and aqiiart 
pure rain water ; after standing about 24 hours, it will be ready for 
use. 

To MAKE Gold Solution fou Electuo-T'lating. — Dissolve five 
pennyweights gold coin, 5 grains pure copper, and 4 grains pure 
silver in 3 oz. nitro-muriatic acid ; which is simply 2 parts muriatic 
acid and 1 part nitric acid. The silver will not be taken into so- 
lution as are the other 2 metals, but will gather at the bottom of 
the vessel. Add 1 oz. pulverized sulphate of iron, i oz. pulverized 
borax, 25 grains pure table salt, and 1 quart hot rain water. Upoa 
this the gold and copper will be thrwwn to the bottom of the 
vessel with the silver. Let stand till fully settled, then pour off 
the liquid carefully, and refill with boiling rain water as before. 
Continue to repeat this operation until the precipitate is thorough- 
ly washed ; or, in other words, fill up, let settle, and pour off so 



WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, &C., RECEIPTS, ICl 



long as the accumulation at the bottom of the vessel is acid to the 

taste. 

You now have about an 18 carat chloride of gold. Add to it an 
ounce and an eighth cyanuret i)otassa, and 1 quart rain water — the 
latter lieated to ilio boiling point. Shake up well, then let stand 
about '24 hours, and it will be ready for use. 

Some use platina as an alloy instead of silver, under the impies- 
BJon that plating done with it is harder. I have used both, but 
never could see much difference. 

Solution for a darker colored plate to imitate Guinea gold may 
be made by adding to the above 1 oz. of dragon's blood and Sgrs. 
iodide of iron. 

If you desire an alloyed plate, proceed as first directed, without 
the silver or copper, and with an ounce and a half of sulphuret 
notassa in place of ihe iron, borax, and salt. 

To Plate with a Battery. — If the plate is to be gold, use tiie 
g )ld solution.for electro-plating ; if silver, use the silver solution. 
Prepare the article to be plated by immersing it for several min- 
utes in a strong lye made of potash and rain-water, polishing off 
thoroughly at the end of the time with a soft brush and prepared 
clialk. Care should be taken not to let the fingers come in con- 
tact with the article while polishing, as that has a tendency to 
prevent the plate from adhering ; it should be held in two or three 
thicknesses of tissue paper. 

Attach the article, when thoroughly cleansed, to the positive 
pole of your battery, then affix a piece of gold or silver, as the case 
maybe, to the negative pole, and immerse both into the solution 
in such a way as not to hang in contact with each other. 

After the article has been exposed to the action of the battery' 
aboutten minutes, take it out and wash or polish over with a thick 
i mixta e of water and prepared chalk or jetveller's rouge. If, in the 
! operation, you find places where the plating seems inclined to peel 
I oU^ or when it has not taken well, mix a little of 'he plating solu- 
tion with prepared chalk or rouge, and rub the defective part 
[ thoroughly with it. This will be likely to set all right. 

Govern your time of exposing the article to the battery by the 
I desired thickness of the plate. During the time, it sliould be taken 
out and polished up as just directed about every ten minutes, or 
as often at least as there is an indication of a growing darkness on 
any part of its surface. When done, finish with the burnisher on 
prepared chalk and chamois skin, as best suits your taste and coa- 
i venience. 

lu case the article to be plated is iron^ steel, lead, pewter, o; 
j block tin, you must, after first cleaning with the lye and chalk, 
[prepare it by applying with a soft brush — a camel's hair pencil ia 
jbest suited— a solution made of the following articles in the pro- 
jportion named :— Nitric acid, J oz. ; muriatic acid, i oz. ; sulphuric 
{add, l-9th oz. ; muriate of potash, l-7th oz. ; sulphate of iron, i 
joz, ; sulphuric ether, l-5th oz. ; and as much sheet zinc as It will 
Idissolvc. This prepares a foundation, without which the plat« 
[would fail to take well, if at all. 

To MAKE Gold Amalgam. — Eight parts of gold and one of mer- 
[curyare formed into an amalgam for plating, by r«adering th« 

L 



:ff* i?.^: 



<: '!l 



h ■ r. 



•■h.-'m' 



!^^ 



mm:: 



I M: 



:.-|r 



**i'^¥r^;i'-=' 



1()2 WATCllMAKKllS, JEWELI.KUS, AC, UEtKll'Ts, 



i 



pold into tliin plates, making it red hot and tlicn ])nttiiig itintfi 
the mercury while the 'atler is also heated to ebullition. Tlie [;(il(| 
immediately disappears in combination with the mercury, afin 
Avhieh the mixture may be turned into water to cool. It is then 
ready for use. 

To Pi,ATK WITH Gold Amalgam. — Gold amalgiim is cliit-fly us,,,] 
as a plating for silver, oojjper or brass. The article to be iiIiuciIk 
washed over with diluted nitric acid or jiotash lye and iJiepimj 
chalR, to remove any tarnish or rust that might i)revent tiie luimigam 
from adhering. After having been ])olished porfectly bright, the 
amalgam is ai>plied as evenly as i)ossible, usuiilly with a hue scralcli 
brush. It is then set u)»on a grate over a clmrcoal Hre, or jiIiktiI 
into an oven and heated to that degree at which mercury exhales 
The gold, when the mercmy has evaporated, presents a dull yolluiv 
color. Cover it with a coating of pulverized nitre and alum in 
frpial parts, mixed to a paste with water, and heat again till /Ms 
thoroughly melted, then iilungo into water. IJurnish upwilliii 
steel or bloodstone burnisher. 

To Make and Aim'ly Golo-Platixo Soll'tion.— Dissolve Joz.oi 
gold amalgam in 1 oz. of nitro-muriatic acid. Add '2 oz. of alco- 
hol, and then, having brightened the article in the usual wav, 
apply the solution with a soft brush. Rinse and dry in sawdust, w 
with tissue paper, and polish up with chamois skin. 

To Make anu Ai"'LY Goi.d-Platino PinvoERS.— Prepare a chlo- 
ride of gold the same as for plating with a battery. Atltltoit, 
when thoroughly waslied out, cyanuret ])otassa in a proportion ui 
2 oz. to 5 ])ennyweights of gold. Pour in a ])int of clean rain 
water, shak*> up well and then let stand till the chloride is dis- 
solved. Add then 1 lb. of prepared Spanish whiting and let eva- 
porate in the open air till dry, after which put away in a tiplit 
vessel for use. To apply it you ])reparc the article in the usual 
way, Jind having made the powder into a paste with water, rub it 
upon the surface with a piece of chamois skin or cotton fliuind. 

An old mode of making a gold-plating powder was to dip clean 
linen rags into solution prepared as in the second article preccdini; 
this, and having dried, to fire and burn them into ashes. Tiit 
ashes formed the powder, and were to be applied as above. 

To Make and Apply Silver-Platino Solution. — Put togothcria 
a glass vessel 1 oz. nitrate of silver, 2 oz. cyanuret jjotassa, 4 oz. 
prepared Spanish whiting, and 10 oz. pure rain water. Cleanse the 
article to be ])lated as i)er preceding directions, and apply witlia 
soft brush. Finish with the chamois skin or burnisher. 

To Make and Apply Silveu-Platino Powder. — Dissolve silver 
in nitric acid by the aid of heat ; put some i)iece3 of copiter into 
the solution to prccijiitate the silver; wash the acid out in tlie usual 
"vay; then, with ir> grains of it mix 2 drams of fcirtar, 2 drams 
of table salt, and ^ dram of pulverized alum. Brighten the article 
to be plated with lye and prepared chalk, and rub on the mixture. 
When it has assumed a white appearance, expose to heat as in the 
case of plating with gold amalgam, then polish up with tiio bur- 
nisher or soft leather. 

To Enamel Gold or Silver. — Take ^ pennyweight of silver, 21 
pennyweights of copper, 3J pennyweights of lead, and 2^ penny- 



l'"l'J"Kitiiitn 
f'<'"- Tlifp„l,| 
"lorc.iry, afie, 
P^'JI- Itisil,i,„ 

' "M chiefly iiseil 

' iuid jirupiiMj 
nttlicurimigiiiij 
ctly bright, tl,, 
111 a Ime scraWi 
inv, or iilaceii 
erciiry exhale, 
tsadullyelluiv 
nnd alum j,, 
tJigaiu tiih>jj 
nish uj) Willi a 

dissolve J oz. of 
d 2 oz. of nlco. 
the usual wav, 
' in sawdust, w 

'roi)aro a clilo- 
'••y. Add toil, 
a]iroi)ortioiiol 
t of clean rain 
chloride is (lis- 
ng and let evii- 
away ill a tigln 
c in the usual 
Lh water, rub it 
tton fiiuinel. 
as to dip clean 
"tide {)recetlin)j 
to aslies. The 
above. 

Put tofrothorin 
; ItotasKa, 4 oz, 
M-. Cleaiisothe 

I apjtly witlia 
ler. 

Dissolve silver 
^f copper into 
>utin tlie usual 
artar, 2 drams 
ten the article 

II the mixture. 
heat as in tlie 
with the bur- 
lit of silver, 21 
.nd 2lj penny- 



WATCHMAKERS, JF.WELLKIIS, &C., RECEU'lVS. ] 03 

wciplits of muriate of ammonia. Melt topffHher, and jiour into a 
criicihU' with twice as iiiucli pulverized sulphur; the crucible is 
then to l»e immediately covcrfcd that the sulphur may not take fire, 
iiod the mixture is to be calcined over a smelting fire until tin- 
siiporfliious sulphur ia burned away. The compound is then to bo 
toivrsely pounded, and, with a solution of muriate of ammonia, to 
be formed into a paste which is to be jdaced upon the article it is 
designed to enamel. The article must then be held over a spirit 
lamp fill the compound upon it melts and (lows. After this it may 
be smoothed and polished up in safety. This makes the black 
enainf'l now so much used on jewellery. 

To Dkstuov the Effects of Acid o.\ Clotiifs. — Dampen as soon 
as possible, after exposure to the acid, with spirits ammonia. It 
will destroy the eifect immediately. 

To Wash SiLVEiiWAnE.— Never use a particle of soap on your 
silverware, as it dulls the lustre, giving the article more the 
appearance of pewter than silver. When it wants cleaning, rub it 
with a pie«»e of soft leather and prepared chalk, the latter made 
into a kind of paste with pure water, for the reason that water not 
pure might contain gritty particles. 

To Cleanse Brushes. — The best method of cleansing watch- 
makers' and jewellers' brushes is to wash them out in strong soda 
water. When the backs are wood, you must favor that part as 
much as i»«ssible ; for being glued, the water may injure them. 

To Cut Glass Round or Oval without a Diamond. — Scratch the 
glass around the shape you desire with the corner of a file or gra- 
ver ; then, having bent a piece of wire in the same shape, heat it 
red hot and lay it upon the scratch, sink the glass into cold water 
ju:)t deej) enough for the water to come almost on a level with its 
upi)er surface. It will rarely ever fail to breiik perfectly true. 

To Ke-Black Clock Hands. — Use aspj;altum varnish. One coat 
will make old rusty hands look as good as new, and it dries in a 
kw minutes. 

To Gild Steel. — Pour some of the ethereal solution of gold into 
ft wineglass, and dip into it the blade of a new penknife, razor, 
lawcet, &c. ; withdraw the instrunn ut, and allow the ether to 
cvaitorute. The blade will then be found coven-d with a beautiful 
coat of gold. The blade maybe moistened with a clean rag, or a 
small piece of very dry sponge dipped in the ether, and the same 
efRcts will be produced. 

SiLVEUiNO Shells. — Silver-leaf and gum water a sufTicient (pian- 
titf'i grind to a proper thickness, and cover the inside of the 
sIh-'Hs. For a Gold (>jlor, grind up gold-leaf with gum water, 
and apply to the inside of the shells. 

LuM'ii) Foil for Silvering Glass Globes, &c. — Lead, 1 7>art ; 
tin, 1 jiart ; bismuth, 1 jiart : melt, and, just before it sets, add mer- 
cury, 10 jiarts. Pour this into the globe, and turn it rapidly round. 
SiLVEi -Pi.ATE.is' Stripi'ino Liquid. — Sulphuric acid, 8 parts ; nitre, 
1 part. Used to recover silver from old plated ware. 

To Silver Clock-Faces, etc. — Old silver lace, ^ oz. ; nitric 
acid, 1 oz. Boil them over a gentle fire for about 5 minutes in an 
earthen i)ot. Aftfr the silver is dissolved, take the mixture oil', and 
mix it in a pint of clean water, then pour it into another vessel 



.lb 









' 4. 



■*/1i>»K~"S!W»»- 



KM WATCIIMAKEllS, JEWELLERS, AC, KECEirTS. 



'I'l 






free from sediment ; then add a tablespoonfui of common salt, 
and the silver will be precipitated in tlic form of a white powder 
or curd ; pour off the acid, and mix the curd with 2 oz. salt of tar- 
tar, and i oz. whiting, all together, and it is ready for use. To 
UsM. — Clean your brass or copper plate with rotten stone and a 
piece of old hat ; rub it with salt ^nd water with your hand. Then 
take a little of the composition on your finger, and rub it over 
your plate, and it will firmly adhere and completely silver it. 
Wash it well with water. When dry, rub it wiili a clean rag, and 
varnish with this vaknish fob clock-fachs. Spirits of wine, 1 pt.; 
divide into three parts, mix one part with gum-mastic in a bottle 
by itself; 1 part spirits and J oz. sandarach in another bottle ; and 
1 part spirits and J oz. of whitest gum benjamin, in another bot- 
tle; mix and temper to your mind. If too thin, some mustic; if 
too soft, some sandarach or benjamin. When you use it, warm 
the silvered plate before the fire, and, with a flat camel's-huir pen- 
cil, stroke it over till no white streaks appear, and this will pre- 
serve the silvering for many years. 

Refining Gold and Silver. — The art of assaying gold and silver 
is founded upon the feeble affinity which these have for oxygen in 
comparison with copper, tin, and other cheap metals, and ou the 
tendencv which the latter metals have to oxidize rapidly in con- 
tact with lead at a high temperature, and sink with it into any 
porous, earthy vessel in a ihin, glassy, vitrified mass. The precious 
metal having previously been accurately weighed and prepared, 
the first process is Cupellation. The nwjffle, with cupel properly 
am' aged on the *' mtMe plate," is placed in the furnace, and the 
charcoal added, and lighted pJ the top by means of a few ignited 
pieces thrown on last. After the cupels have been exposed to a 
strong white heat for about half an hour, and have become wiiite 
hot, the lead is put into them by means of tongs. As soon as this 
becomes bright red and " circulating," as it is called, *he specimen 
for assay, wrapped in a small piece of paper or lead-f( 1, is added: 
the fire is now kept up strongly until the metal enters the lead 
and " circulates^' well, when the heat, slightly diminished, is so 
regulated that the assay appears convex and more glowing than 
the cupel itself, whilst the " Mniwtoeons" circulate in all directions, 
and the middle of the metal appears smooth, with a margin of 
litharge, which is freely absorbed by the cupel. When the metal 
becomes bright and shining, or, in technical language, begins 
to " liffhten," and prismatic hues suddenly flash across the globules, 
and undulate and cross each other, followed by the metal becom- 
ing very brilliant and clear, and at length bright and solid (called 
the brightening), the separation is ended, and the process complete. 
The cupels are then drawn to the mouth of the " muffle," and 
allowed to cool slowly. When quite cold, the resulting " button," 
if of SILVER, is removed by the " pliers" or " tongs" from the cupels, 
and, after being flattened on a small anvil of polished steel, with a 
polished steel hammer, to detach adhering oxide of lead, and 
cleaned with a small, hard brush, is very accurately weighed. The 
weight is that of pure silver, and the difference between the weight 
lE>e#^e cupellation and that of the pure metal represents the propor- 
tion of alloy in the sample examined. In the case of gold, the motal 



IW 



WATCII3IAKEfty, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 165 

has next to uiuler."0 the operations of quartation, Tho cnpeliod 
ganittle ia 'useil with 3 times itri weiglit of pure silver, (called the 
«in/»( *•<"), ^>y which tlio gold is reduced to oue-lourlh of tbemas3, 
less and iu tiiis state may easily te ronnovod by parting. Tho 
fllloy, after quartation, is hammered or rolled out into a thin strip 
or loaf, eurled into a spiral forfflj and boiled for a quarter of an 
hour with aliout 2} to 3 oz. of nitric acid Csnecific gravity, 13); 
and the fl'iid being poured off, it is again boiled in a similar man- 
ner with li to 2 oz. more nitric acid (sp. gr., 1.2) ; after which the 
2ol(i is carefully collected, washed in pure water, and dried. 
When the operation of parting is skilfully conducted, the acid not 
too strong, the metal preserves its spiral form; otherwise it falls 
intotiakcs 6r powder. The second boil.ng is termed the " reprise." 
The loss of weight by parting corresponds to the quantity of silvbs 

rjifinally in the specimen. 

Foil Alloys Containing Platinum, which usually consist of 
(oppcr, silver, platinum, and gold, the method of assaying is as 
follows : The alloy is cupelled in the usual way, the loss of weight 
expresses the amount of copper, and the " button." made into a 
riband and treated with sulphuric acid, indicates by the portion 
dissolved thai also of the stiver present. By submitting the resi- 
duum to quartation, the platinum becomes soluble in nitric acid. 
The loss after digestion m this menstruum expresses the weight 
of that mptal, and tho weight of the portion now remaining is im.t 
of pure gold. Gold containing palladium may be assayed in the 
same manner. Annealing. — This consists in putting tho pure gold 
into a smalL porous crucible, or cupel, and heating it to redness 
in the muffle. Wbiguino must be done with the utmost accu- 
racy. The weight in grains Troy, doubled or quadrupled, as 
the case ma^ be, gives the number of carats fine of the alloy 
examined, without calculation. 

According to the old French method of assaying gold, the fol- 
lowing quantities were taken : For the assaj/ pound. 12 gr. ; fine 
silver, .' gr. ; lead, 108 gr. These having been cupelled together, 
the perfect button is rolled into a leaf (1 J x 6 inches), twisted on 
a quill, and submitted to parting with 2 J oz. and Ij cz. of nitric 
acid. sp. gr., 1.16 (20° Baume.) The remainder of the process is 
similar to that above described. 

The usual weight of silver taken for the assap pound, when the 
fineness is reckoned in lOOOths, is 20 gr., every real grai'i of 
which represents 50-lOOOths of fineness, and so on of smaller divi- 
sions. 

Enamelling on Gold or Copper. — The basis of all enamels is a 
highly transparent and fusible glass, called fdit, flux, or paste, 
which readily receives a color on the addition of ttie metallic 
oxides. Preparation. — Red lead, 16 parts ; calcined borax, 3 parts ; 
pounded flint glass, 12 parts ; flints, 4 parts. Fuse in a Hessian 
crucible for 12 hoTirSj then pour it out into water, and reduce it 
to ])owder in a biscuit-ware mortar. The following directions will 
serve to show how the coloring preparations are made : Black 
enamels are maile with peroxydo of manganese, or protoxyrio of 
iron, to which more depth of color is given with a little cobalt. 
Vioist euum^l of ti very fine hue is made from peroxyde of man- 






1' 







II. 









%.. 



r 



rl' 






^« 




'''^mmmm*-'' 



166 WATCHMAKERS, JEWELLERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

/qrancse in small quantity, with saline, or alkaline liuxes. Rei 
enamel is made from protoxyde of copper. Boil a solution of equal 
parts of sugar and acetate of copper iu four parts of water. The 
sugar takes possession of a portion of the cupreous oxide and 
reduces it to the protoxyde ; when it may bo precipitated in the 
form of a granular powder of a brilliant red. After about two 
hours of moderate boiling, th« liquid Id set aside to settle, decanted 
off the precipitate, which ii washed and dried. By this pureoxid« 
any tint may be obtained from red to orange by adding a greater 
01 smaller quantity of peroryde of iron. The oxide and purple of 
Cassius are likewise employed to color red enamel. This compo' 
sition resists a strong fire yery well. Green enamel can be produced 
by a mixture of yellow and blue, but is generally obtained direct 
from the oxide of copper, or, better still, with the oxide of chrome, 
■which last will resist a strong heat, xellow. — Take one part of 
white oxide of antimony, with from one to three parts of white 
lead, one of alum, and one of sal-ammo'"iac. Each of these sub- 
Stances w to be pulverized, then all are to be exactly mixed, and 
•xposed to a heat adequate to decompose the sal-ammoniac. This 
epcration is judged to be finished v.-hen the yellow color is well 
brought out. Blue. — This color is obtained from the oxide of 
cobaltj or some of its combinations, and it produces it witli such 
intensity that only a very little can be used lest the shade should 
pass into black. A white enamel may be prepared with a cdm 
formed of 2 parts of tin and I of lesd, calcined together : of this 
combined oxide, 1 part is melted with 2 parts of fine crystal and 
a very little manganese, all previously ground together. Whea 
the fusion is complete, the vitreous matter is to oe poured into 
clear watej, ftnd the frit is then dried and melted anew. Repeat 
the pouring into water three or four times, to insure a perfect 
combination €creen the crucible from smoke and flame. The 
Bmallc ;t portions of oxide of iron or copper admitted into this 
enamel will destroy its value. 

The artist prepares his enamel colors by pounding them in an 
agate mortar, with an agate pestle, and grinding them on an agate 
slab, with oil of lavender rendered viscid by exposure to the sun, 
in a shallow vessel, loosely covered with gauze or glass. He 
should have alongside of him a stove, in which a moderate Are 13 
kept up, for drying his work whenever the figures are finished. It 
is then passed through the muffle. 

Silveb-Platinq.— File the parts which arc to receive the plate 
"» f y smooth; then apply over the surface the muriate of zinc, 
which is made by dissolving zinc in muriatic acid ; now hold this 
pa' ;: over a dish containing hot soft solder, and with a swab apply 
the solder to the part to which it will adhere, brush off all super- 
fluous eolder, so as ^o leave the surface smooth ; you will now 
take No. 2 fair silvfr olate, of the right size to cover the prepared 
surface, and lay the plate upon it^ and rub down smooth with 9 
cloth moistened with oil ; then, with a tinned soldering iron, pasi 
slowly over all the surface of the plate, which melts the soldei 
underneath it, causing the plate to adhere as firmly as the soldei 
does to the iroa ; then polish the siirface, and finish with buck 
akift. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, 40.^ RECEIPTS. 



167 



Elkinoton's Patbnt GitDiNO. — Fine gold, 5 oz. (troy) ; nitro- 
mnn'atic acid, 52 oz. (avoirdupois) ; dissolve by heat, and continue 
the heat until red or yellow vapors cease to be evolved ; decant 
the clear liquor into a snitabte vessel : add distilled wpter, 4 pals. ; 
purebi-carbonate of potassa, 20 lbs. ; and boil for 2 hours. N.B. — 
The nitro-muriatic acid is made with pvre nitric acid (sp. gr., 
1.45) 21 oz. ; pure muriatic acid (sp. gr., 1.15), 17 oz. ; and distilled 

Ttater, 14 oz 

The articles, after being perfectly cleaned from scale or grease, 
and receiving a proper^wce, are to be suspended on wire?, dipped 
into the liquid boiling hot, and moved about therein, when, in 
from a few seconds to a minute, depending on the newness and 
strength of the liquid, the requisite coating of gold will be 
deposited on tliem. By a little practice the time to withdraw the 
articles it readily known ; the duration of the immersion reouired 
to product any given effect gradually increases as the liquid 
weakens ^y use. When properly gilded, the t^rticles are with- 
drawn from the sciu^icn of gold, washed in clean water and dried; 
after which they undergo the usual operation of coloring, &c. 

A ^^deadffold" appearance is produced by the applicaiiou to the 
articles of a weak solution of nrtra^e o/'w?e;-cwry previously to the 
immersion in the gilding liquor, or the deadening may be given by 
applying a solutidr. of the nitrate to the newly gilded suiface, and 
then expelling the mercury by heat. 

Spot Gilding, or gilding in spots, prodscing a very fine appear- 
ance, is done by putting a thin coat of oil on those parts of the 
metal where yon do not wish the gilding to appear, the gold will 
then be deposited on those spots only where there is no oil, and 
the oiLis easily removed when the job is finished. 

Watchmakers' Oil.— Insert coils of thin sheet lead into olive 
oil in a bottle, expose it to tlie sun for a few weeks, and pour off 
the clear. 

Solution foh Dipping Steel Abticlbs, previous to Electro- 
Platino.— Nitrate of silver, 1 part; nitrate of mercury, 1 part; 
nitric acid (sp. gr., 1.384). 4 parts; water, 120 parts. For copper 
arttcfe.1.— Sulphuric acid, 64 parts; water, 64 parts; nitric acid, 
32 parts ; muriatic acid, 1 part ; mix. The article, free from grease, 
18 dipped in the pickle for a second or two. 

Polishing Diamonds. — The plan in use at all the large diamond 
cutters is simply a cast iron disc of good metal, with a vertical 
spindle run thiougli its centre, balanced, and turned, and faced 
true in a lathe. The disc revolves at about 1000 revolutions per 
minute. With a little diamond dust and oil the stone is set in a 
small brass cup filled with common soft solder ; it is then screwed 
up in the clamps and applied to the skive till the facet is formed. 



tr i 



11 'fl 

1 1 «!1 



RECEIPTS FOR MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, MILLOVYNERS, 
BLACKSMITHS, LOCOMOTIVE BUILDERS, &c., &c., AND 
METAL WORKERS OF EVERY KIND. 

On S awmills. — How to get the most Lumber from Sav/^logs. — 
Experience has abundantly proved to our satisfaction that this can 



.:,['» 



'•i 


1' 


f 




t 




n 




i 





ft 'I 



168 . -aCHINISTS, engineers, AC, RECEIPTS. 

be done only by the use of the circular saw. Human ingenuity 
thanks be to the Giver of all Good.has been so prolilic in the inven- 
tion and construction of this kind of machinery, that tlie principal 
difficulty with the intending purchaser seems to be un inability to 
decide whose machine is really the best. Every builder or inventor 
of a rotary sawmill appears to claim for his machine such a per- 
feet constellation of most desirable features, that a certain aaounl 
of hesitation in coming to a decision seems to be incvitaWe. 
Having tried the up and down saw and the circular saw also, we 
would again repeat our conviction that the last mentioned is the 
best for manufacturing lumber, and should any person act od 
this expression of opinion, let him in the first place be very careful 
to get if possible the best machine, bring it to the mill, and setit 
perfectly level and true. When you get it in operation,see that you 
handle it carefully. If you have been used to running the up and 
down saw only, you will soon find out that your former experience 
avails almost nothing in the management of the rotary macliiDe; 
but when you get the hang of rnuning it, the compensation in tie 
way of convenience, rapidity, and quantity of work, is immense, 
Some prefer to use tne inserted tooth saws, and will use no other, 
They seem to possess many advantages, and are entirely safe. A 
late invention of tpreading the tipper part of the tooth totoardilk 
point during the process of manufacture, spreading it out so as to 
make the point orthe tooth the thickest part of 'lie circumference of 
the saw, enables the sawyer to disjiense in a great measure will 
the use of the swage. Those inserted tooth saws which do not 
possess this improvement must be carefully swaged and filed at 
least twice per day, and soaietimea as often as six or seven times 
per day, depending upon the kind of lumber being cut. In lilingor 
swaging the saw, be careful to form the point of the tectli abso- 
lutely square, and even across, the slightest deviation from perfect 
trutb in this respect being apt to cause the saw to ran, as it is 
termed, or vary from its proper course while passing through tlit 
log. Home prefer to form the point of the tooth a little hoolcing, 
just enough so as to be barely perceptible, and in swaging toua 
that part of the die belonging to the swage, which gives the toolt 
of the saw a slightly curved or rainbow form, something in this shai« 
^ or scarcely so much curved. One sawyer of 20 years' experience 
in running machinery, informed us that he never did better ormore 
rapid work with his mill than when he kept his saw exactly riglt 
on these two points just stated. If you can run a No. 7 gauge 
saw on your mill, the loss resulting from sawdust will be vcrj 
Blight, and as large saws are generally thickest at the centre, 
tapering off towards the circumference, this size or No. 6 will.asn 
general rule, be found sufficiently strong for most purposes. Maie 
sure at all times, especially during frosty weather, that the dogi 
have a secure hold of the log before the saw enters it. It is onlyi 
few days ago that a case came to my knowledge of a firm netf 
Fredericton, N.B., having sustained a severe loss by a log (insuffici- 
ently secured, of course) canting over on the saw as it was pasiief 
through it. The effect was to break off the saw from tlie niandrii 
twist off the nut at the end near the saw, and break away the tm 
iron pini used for securing the saw in the collar, causing a stop 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 169 

cage of the mill, and the consequent expense of repair and delay. 
When yoii gf't tlie mill in operation, see that you han»ilt> St care- 
filly and inaintiiia unceasing watchfulness over Ler whiito in 
oneratioii. Give hat plenty of power; if you donH^ you may as well 
shut I'l) shop at once ; good attendance, and with a good machine, 
the attendants will not have much time to play themselves, I caa 
assure you. Keep all the parts well oiYerf— that has a great deal to 
do with the smooth and successful running of the machine ; and, by 
the way, I would remark that sawnaills are not the only things in 
this world that run all the better for being oiled. If tha,' kind, 
loving, gentle, and affectionate spirit of which oil is the symbol, per- 
vaded the hearts and minds of our race, and found universal 
expression ia every thought, word, and deed during ourdailyinter- 
course with each other, it would be a very different world from 
what it is— better for ourselves, and better for our neighbors. Let 
us all carry on this branch of the oil business as extensively as pos- 
sible and we sh ill soon see a brotherhood " dwelling together ia 
unity." In order to facilitate calculations regarding the velocity 
of saws, herewith is appended a reliable tabla to serve as a guido 
in ascertaining the proper speed for ruaning :— 

Table of Speed for Circular Saws. 

36 inches in diameter, 1000 revolutions per minute. 



38 


(( 


40 


(( 


42 


(t 


44 


« 


46 


(( 


43 


« 


50 


« 


52 


« 


54 


« 


56 


a 


58 


i( 


60 


II 


62 


« 


64 


u 


66 


u 


68 


tt 


70 


11 


72 


11 


74 


<i 


76 


II 



(1 


900 


li 


(( 


(( 


870 


(1 


II 


« 


840 


<i 


II 


« 


800 


II 


(1 


ti 


760 


It 


II 


tt 


725 


K 


l( 


tt 


700 


(t 


II 


tt 


675 


11 


{< 


tt 


650 


II 


II 


tt 


625 


<i 


II 


tt 


600 


It 


II 


tt 


575 


tt 


II 


tt 


560 


• tt 


II 


tt 


545 


tt 


II 


tt 


530 


tt 


II 


tt 


515 


tt 


II 


tt 


500 


tt 


II 


tt 


485 


(t 


II 


tt 


475 


(1 


II 



I Who Make the Best Saw-mills and Saws. — Tha parties engaged 

I in this business who may be called first class men in their line are 

ISO numerous, that it is hard to teli where to begin or where to 

lleaveott in making honorable mention. C. H. Waterous & Co., 

of l<i'nr,ifoi'd, Ont., have the reputation of turning out first class 

circular saw mills, and portable eiifrines to drive them. They 

have sent many of their mills down to iVi'W Brunswick, where the 

gang-saw has been doing must of tiie business hitherto, and they 

appear to be giving satisfaction. The Joseph Hall MPg. (Jo., Oshawa, 

j Ont., Mr. Glen, president, also rank very high. The same may be 



% 



i 




11 



.ii 

if 






n^ 



1*> 



\ 



i 1' 



" ty 



I W 



. -I' fi. - 






J-af-- 






170 MACHINISTS, ENGINELRS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



I ';i 



said of W P Bartley & Co., of Montreal ; James Harrig, of the 
New Brunswick Foundry. St John, N.B. Messrs McFarlane 4 
Anderson, of St. Mary'a and Fredericton, N B , with their two 
estabhsliraents — the one at the latter place being quite extensive 
and lately rebuilt at great cost since the tire which destroyed it in 
the summer of 1871 — are now fully prepared to execute any orders 
for saw-mills, steam engines, &c , at reasonable rates, For the 
benefit of- those residing in the United States, we may mention 
that Stearns, Clark, & Co., ot Erie, Pa., turn out the very best of 
work. Having made a personal examination of their facilities and 
appliances, we say that they rank second to none, and, m 
proof of this, would state that we saw a letter in the "Scientiic 
American" a few days ago, from a party who was running one of 
their mills in Wisconsin, if we mistake not, making the statement 
that he had cut upwards of 60,000 feet in one day with one of their 
circular saw-mills. That was big business, but the work was done 
and the hgures produced to prove it from a disinterested sourcel 
There are also one or two firms in Bangor, Me , who turn out gooii 
machinery for saw-miUs ; but it is almost invidious to mention 
isolated firms where there is such an aggregation of excellent 
houses in this business all over the United States and Canada, 
In tbe line of saw manufacturers we would enumerate Morland 
& Watson, and James Robertson, oi Montreal, Alex. Richardson i 
Co., ot St John, N B., and J. F Lawton, also of St. John, e? 
bearing the reputation ot turnin^jf out good work In the United 
States we have honorable and able firms bearing the names of 
Welch & Griffiths of Boston, the Providence Saw Co , Providence, 
R ]., who make inserted tooth saws only : R. Hoe & Co., of New 
York : the American Saw Co , Nev/ York ; Disstou of Pliiladelphia; 
Porter Saw Co , Bristol, Couq ; Hubbard of Pittsburg, Pa. ; Atijins 
ot Indianapolis, Ind ; Messrs Sinker & Co., of the same place; 
Melius ot Detroit, Mien ; Branch, Crookes,& Co., of St. Louis,Mo,, 
and one or two good firms in Cleveland, Ohio. 

Shinglb Machines. — There are liUmerous good machines of this 
class, very highly recommended by the different manufacturers aa 
a matter ot course, but the interested representations as to their 
capability o» performing such incredible prodigies of work ins 
day, are most generally to be taken at a "libertil discount," as the 
dry goods merchant most eloquently expresseth it. Having had 
rather unusual opportunities of witnessing the performance of 
various kinds ot shingle machines, 1 will specify a few, premising, 
in the first place, that 1 am neither interested in the sale of 
shinglp or any otner machines, nor in the receipt of "a valuable 
consideration" from the manufacturers for recommending them, 
James liarris ot St John, N.B., has built a large number of tlie 
Cose shiuf^Ie machines (vertical saw) during the year 1871, 
I hear them high'y spoken of, and have seen (ine, but not in ope- 
ration. 1 should judge it was a very good machine, i)rice $175,1 
with a Bangor edger or trimmer, $25 extra. The Muzzey Iroa 
Works Company, Bangor, Me., build a very good shingle machine 
(vertical .saw) ; I have seen many in operation ; they will turn oula | 
ood deal of work, and do it well. Trevor and Co., of Lockport, 

Y., turn out very good shingle and heading machines (vertical 



I 



MA0HINIST8, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



171 



ic Co., of New 



saw) As a proof of their popularity, I may state tha. Mr. T. 
Thompson, of Black Rock, N.Y., has four or five of these shingle 
machines in operation, and prefers them to all others. I caa 
also bear witness that M. Badger and Co., of Rochester, N.Y., 
build excellent shingle and heading machines (horizontal saw), 
and are really deserving of approbation and patronage, not only 
on account of turning out good machinery, but from the circum- 
stance that the proprietors are two young ladies (who have inhe- 
rited the business of their father, now many years deceased) who 
attend personally to the management of the financial part of the 
business, while the superintendent, Mr. Doughty, is possessed of 
every qualification to ensure good work in the mechanical depart- 
ment, I would also mention James E, Austin and Co., of Oswego. 
N.Y., as a firm who have expended a great deal of money and 
much ingenuity in the invention and manufacture of shingle 
machines, and have brought them to a point of perfection which 
leaves little more to be desired. Although the machine is quite 
complicated, it can be speeded up to cut very rapidly. One 
gentleman in Oswego informed me that he had cut as high 
as 33,000 shingles per day. I should say that that was an extra 
day's work, but it must be borne in mind that the machine 
carries two Dlocks at one time, cutting a shingle from each block 
alternately. This n.achine also reqtiires a smart careful operator ; 
auy negligence on hi;' part will undoubtedly be rewarded with a 
shower of dangerous projectiles, flying ** fast and furious," not at . 
all careful who or where they strike. The price of this machine 
is $600. i have seen only one shingle machine that could compete 
with Austin's. This was in Chicago previous to the great fire, and 
It could cut about 8000 shingles per hour. I was informed that it was 
made in Wisconsin, and cost $1400. Many other good machines 
are made by other makers besides those mentioned above, but 
space will not admit of further mention. Any enquiries nddressed 
to either of the aforesaid manufacturers will be answered by illus- 
trated circulars containing fuj,V information. In the manufacture 
of shingles, as well as in anythingelse; itis the wisest policy to use 
the best materials. Get good»rift, free from knots, sand, bark, &c., 
and you will inevitably get good nerchantable stuff, with less 
waste and more pleasure every wa;", both with the machinery in 
the first place, and the satisfactory state of your exchequer in the 
last. It 13 all the better if you can lay in a good stock oue 
year ahead, as it cuts much easier when properly seasoned, to say 
nothing of the saving m weight during transport'* tion. In edging 
shingles, many prefer the saw to the revolving knives, as it enables 
the operator in many cases to get a shingle of extra quality by 
trimming a poor shmgle down, and selecting the best part. This 
can be done by a smart hand with marvellous rapidity, but still, to 
Vuse a modern nhraso, many persons can't see it, and so thev use 
the knives, giving what they conceive to be good reasons for so 
doing, 

Velocitv ok WnEELS, PcTLLBYS, Drcms, &c. — When wheels are 
applied to communicate motion from one part of a machine to 
another, their teeth act alternately on each other ; consequently, 
it one wheel contains 60 teeth, and another 20 teeth, the one oon- 



r 1 



'}^Vi '• 



•I 



Si' 



172 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

taining 20 teeth will make 3 revolutions while the other makes but 
1 ; and if druma or pulleys are taken in place of wheels, the effect 
will be the same ; because their circumferences, dc'scnbuic,' tiiual 
spaces, render their revolutions unequal , from ihis the rule is 
derived, namely ; — 

Multiply the velocftj . the driver by the number of teeth it 
contains, and divide by the velocity of the driven. The quotient 
will be the number of teeth it ought to contain ; or, multiply the 
velocity of the driver by its diameter, and divide by the velocity 
ot the driven. 

Example 4. If a wheel that contains 75 teeth makes 16 revolu. 
tions per minute, required the number of teeth in another, to work 
into and make 24 revolutions in the same time. Acconhng to 
rule, you multiply 16 by 75, and divide the product, which is 
1200, by 24, and you have the answer, 50 teeth. 

Example 5. Suppose a drum, 30 inches m diameter, to make 20 
revolutions m a minute, required the diameter of another to uiake 
60 revolutions per minute. According to mle, you nuiltiiily 20 
by 30, and divide the product, wluch is GOO, by 60, and you have 
the answer, 10 inches. 

Example 6. A wheel 64 inches in diameter, and making 42 revo- 
Intions per minute, is to give motion to a slum at the nitt- 'it 77 
revolutions in the 8i.me time ; find the diameter oi a wheel suitable 
for that purpose. According to rule, multiply 42 bv G4, and divide 
the product, which is 2688, by 77, and you will have for the 
answer 35 inches nearly. 

77)268S(3418 
231 



378 
308 70 



' Example 7. Suppose a pulley 32 inches diameter to make 26 
revolutions; find the diameter of anotlier to muke 12 revolutions is 
the same time. 

According to rule, 26 X 32 -j- 12 = 69^ — 

26 and 12) 832. This will be seen to be 69^ 

32 

- 69,^^ = \ 

832 

Example 8. Find the number of r:volutions per minute made by 
a wheel or pulley 20 inches in diameter, when driven by another 48 
inches in diameter, and making 45 revolutions in the same time. 
Acctirding lo rule, 48 X 45 -f- 20 — 108 That is, 48 multiplied 
by 45 = 2160, divided by 20, gives the answer, 108 ro volutions, 

A leather belt should have a velocity of about 1300 feet per 
minute, and not more than 1800 foet, or" i? will not last long. V 
the lightning pulley is used too stnu'cr, it increases friction i" Ihf 
gudgeons of the shaft, and })reniat!ir!'!y (ie.stroys tlio belt. 

To InCREASR the PoWKU and DLMiAniLlTV OF Rl?HtlI3(l ]?KLTh\'(3.- 

Apply the following composition with a painter's brush, and luti^ 
dry :— Red lead, black lead, French yello iv, and litharge, c^ual 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC , RECETPTS. 



173 



parts; mix with boiled linseed oil and japan sufficient to make it 
dry quick. Tins will produce a highly-polished surface Should 
the belt slip, moisten lightly on the side next the pulley witli hH- 
sccd oil, and repeat the application if necessary. 

Belting Fkiction.— The friction by belting on pulleys Is 47 for 
greased leather, when run on wood drums or pulleys ; 50 for dry 
leather on woofl , 38 for oiled leather on cast-iron pulleys ; and 28 
for (irj- leather on cast- iron pulleys. 

Belgian Welding Powdeu — Iron filings, 1000 parts; borax, 500 
parts i baisara of copaiba, or other resinous oil, 60 parts; sal- 
ammoniac, 75 parts Mix all well together, heat, ana pulverize 
completely. The surfaces to be welded are powdered with the 
composition, and then brought to a cherry red heat, at which the 
Lowdermelts, when the portions to be united are taken from the 
hre and joined. If the pieces to be welded are too large to be both 
introduced into the forge, one can be first heated with the weld- 
ing powder to a cherry red hea% and the other afterwards to a 
wiiite heat, after which the welding may be eflected. 

Composition Used in Welding Oast Steel.— Borax, 10 parts; 
gal-ammoniac, I part; grind or pound them roughly together; then 
fuse them in a metal pot over a clear fire, taking care to continue 
tbe lieat until all spume has disappeared from the surface. When 
the liquid appears clear, the compositiou is ready to be poured 
out to cool and concrete ; afterwards being ground to a fine pow- 
der, it is ready for use. To use this cora])osition, the steel to be 
welded 13 raised to a heat which may be expressed by " bright yel- 
low;' It 13 then dipped among the welding powder, and again 
placed in the tire until it attains the same degree of heat as before : 
It is then ready to be placed under the hammer 

Tempering Steel Springs. — The eteel used should be that called 
"spring' for large work ; for small vork, " double shear." After 
hardening in the usual way. m watt r, or, as some prefer, in oil, 
dry the spring over the hre to get rid of its moisture, then smear 
it over with tallow or oil, hold it over the flame of the smith's 
forge, passing it to and fro, so that the whole of it will be equally 
heated, holding it tliere until the oil oi tallow takes fire. Take the 
article out of the tire and let it burn a short time, then blow it out 
This process may be repeated two or three times if the operator 
fancies that iiny portion of the spring has not been reduced to 
the |)ropei temperature, or rather, raised to it. 

Tbmi'Eking Saws —A late improvement consists in tempering 
and stiaightening the saws at one operation. This is done by heat- 
ing the saws to the proper degree, and then pressing them with a 
sudden and powerful stroke between two surfaces of cold iron. A 
drop press is employed for the purpose. The mechanism is quite 
simple and inexpensive. Its use effects an important economy in 
the manufacture ot nearly all kinds of saws, and also improves 
their quality 

Tempering LrQDio— Water, 3 gals.; soda, 2 oz. ; saltpetre, 2 
oz, ; prussic acid, 1 oz., or oil of vitriol, 2 oz. 

Tempering Spiral Springs —Place a piece of round iron inside 
the spring large enough to fill it ; then make the spring and iron 
red hot, ftud, wbeo hot place them quickly Into cold water, and 






il,l 


1 ■ 


\Wl' 1 


1 ;! • 


• ■ ^i 1 


'\i 


' ■ -* ■'■!•! 


1 


■ '•; ''1 


1 



f:m 



J 1 



\ A m 



»'^ i 



'\ I 



,^ 



'' 'IM 



174 MACHINISTS, ENOINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 

stir thorn nbnnt till cold ; nftcnvardg rub them with oil or greage 
and move tlievn about in a fl imc till the grca3e takes fire ; the 
spring will then bo reduced to its proper temper. 

To Soften Malleahlb tiio>f. — When your furnace 13 charged 
with fuel and metal, get the tire up to a dull red heat, tlion pour 
fluoric acid all over the coke ; use ^ pt. to 1 pt. or even 1 qt., add. 
ing a handful of ttuor spar ; it will make the metal much softer. 

Chilled Iron. — At Lister's Works, Darlington, England, some 
articles required turning in the lathe, and cast steel could not be 
made hard enough to cut them. One man proposed cast metai 
tools. He was laughed at, of course, but his plan had to be tried. 
Well, cast metal tools were tried, with points chilled, and they cut 
when cast steel tools were of no use. The article wag turned up 
with metal tools. 

Drilling Holes in Cast Iron. — By means of carbolic acid a hole 
i of an inch in diameter has been drilled through ^ inch thickness 
of cast iron, with a conmion cari)entor'ri brace; judge, then, what 
can be done by using the acid and pressure drill. 

To r.ESToiui: Buunt Steel and imi'uovk I'ooaSTEEL.-Borax, 3oz.' 
sal-ammoniac, 8 oz. ; prussiatc of potash, 3 oz. ; blue clay, 2 oz,- 
resin, \ lb.; water, 1 gill; alcoholj 1 gill. Put all on the lire', 
and simmer till it dries to a powder. I'lie steel is to be heated, 
dipped into this jtowder, and afterwards hammered. 

Composition to Touuhen Steel. — Resin, L' 11)3. ; tallow, 2 lbs.; 
black pitch, 1 lb. ; melt together, and dip in the steel wlien hot. 

BmicLAu AND DiuLL-PiiOOF DiAMO.sD Ciiill! — Take 1 gal. urine 
and add to it 1 oz. borax and 1 oz. salt. 

To RE-CUT Old Filks. — Remove the grease and dirt from your 
files by Avashing them in warm potash water, tlion wash tiietii in 
warm water, and dry with artificial heat ; next, place 1 jit. warm 
water in a wooden vessel, and put in ytMir hies, add 2 oz. of blue 
vitriol, finely pulverized, 2 oz. of bora.x, well mixed, taki ig care to 
turn the tiles over, so that ench one may come in co'itaet with the 
mixture. Now add 7 oz. sulidiuric acid and \ oz. cider vinegar to 
the above mixture. Remove the files after a sliort time, dry, sponge 
them with olive oil, wrap them u]) in porous paj-.er, and put aside 
for use. Coarse files require to Ik; immersed longer than line. 

Substitute for Borax. — Cop])erns. 2 oz. ; saltpetre, 1 oz. ; com- 
mon salt, 6 oz. ; black oxide of manganese, 1 oz. ; iirussiate of 
potash, 1 oz.; all pulverized and mixed with 3 lbs. of nice welding 
sand, and use the same as you would sand. High-tempered steel 
can be welded with this at a lower heat than is required for borax. 

Tempering Liquid for Mill picks. — Rain water, 3 gals. ; spirits 
of nitre, 3 oz.; hartshorn, 3 oz. ; white vitriol, 3 oz. ; alum, 3 oz.; 
eal-ammoniac, 3 oz. ; salt, G oz. ; with 2 handfulg of the parings 
of horse's hoofs. The steel to be heated to a cherry red. A large 
jug of this preparation should be kept corked tight, to keep its 
strength from being lost by evaporation. 

To Soften Iron or Steel. — Either of the following methods 
will make iron or steel very soft: — 1. Anoiit it all over with 
tallow, tempei- it in a gvHitle charcoal firr*, and let it cool of itself. 
2. Take a little clay^ cover your iron with it, temper in a charcoal 
fire, 3. When the iron or steel is red hot, stre\v heUebore on it 



I I r 

I! 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 175 

4. Quench the iron or steel m the juice or water of commoD 

To FILE A SQUARE HOLE. — To file a hole square, it is necessary 
to reverse the work very often ; a square file should first be usea, 
and the liolos finished with either a diamond-shaped file, or a half 
round. This leaves the comers square, as they properly should be. 

To Te-mper Small Springs. — In large quantities. — First, harden 
them in the usual manner of hardening steel ; th i place as many 
as convenient in a vessel containing oil. Heat the oil containing 
the springs until it takes fire from the top, then set off tho vessel 
and let it cool. The springs will then be found to possess the 
required temper. 

TEMPEniso.— The article, after being completed, is hardened by 
being heated gradually to a bright red, and then plunged into 
cold water : it is then tempered by being warmed gradually and 
equably, either over a fire, or on a piece of heated metal, till of the 
color corresponding to the ■i)urpose for which it is required, as per 
table below, when it is again plunged into water. 

Corresponding temperature. 

A very pale straw 430 Lancets 7 

Straw 450 Razors ) 

Darkerstraw 470 Penknives 1 All kinds of wood toois. 

Yellow 490 Scissors ) Screw taps. 

Brown yellow 600 '\ Hatchets, Chipping Chisels, 

Slightly tinged purple 520 [■ Saws. 

Purple 530 J All kinds of percussive tools. 

Dark purple 550 ) q-,_;„„„ 

Wue........ 570 j Springs. 

Dark blue 600 Soft for saws. 

Cbdcibles.— The best crucibles are made from pure fire-clay, 
mixed with finely-ground cement of old crucibles, and a portion of 
black-halor graphite; some pounded coke may be mixed with 
the pli'.mbigo. The clay should be prepared in a similar way as 
for making pottery-ware ; the vessels, after being formed, must be 
slowly dried, and then properly baked in the kiln. 

Black-lead crucibles are made of 2 parts graphite, and ' of fere- 
clny, mixed with water into a paste, pressed in moulds, and well 
dried, but not baked hard m the kilu. This compound lorms 
excellent small or portable furnaces. 

Tempering Razors, Cutlkry, Sawp, &c — Razors and penknives 
are too frequently hardened without the removal of the scale aris- 
ing from the forging : this practice, lohich is never done with the 
best works, cannot be too much deprecated The blades are heated m 
a coke or charcoal fire, and dipped m tho water obliquely Jn 
tempering razors, they are laid on their backs upon a clean fire, 
about half-a-dozen together, and they are removed one at.", time, 
when the edges, which are as yet thick, come down to a pale-straw 
color. Should the backs accidentally get heated beyond the straw- 
color, the blades are cooled in water but not otherwise. Pen- 
blades are tempered a dozen or two at a time, on a plate of iron or 
copjier, about 12 inches long, 3 or 4 inches wide, and about ^ of an 
inch thiok. The blades are arranged close together on their backs 



M 



176 MACHINISTS, ENGINEEirs, &C,, RECEIPTS. 



and lenn at an angle apainst erch other. As they como down to 
the teiii])er, they arc picked out with ^intill pliers and thrown hito 
water if necessary ; other blades are then thrust fovAvaid from the 
cooler parts of the plate to take their place. Axes, adzes, cold 
c! iscls, and other edge tools, in which the total bulk is considfrable 
compared with the part to be hardened, are only partially dipped: 
they are afterwards le' down by the heat of the remainder or the 
tool ; and, when the color indicative of the temper 13 attained, they 
are entirely quenched. With the view of removing the loose scales, 
or the oxydation acquired in the fire, some workmen rub the objects 
hastily in dry salt before plunging them in the water, in order to 
give them a cleaner and brighter taco, 

Oil, or resinous mixtures of oil, tiillow, wax, and resin, are used 
for many thin and elastic uriicles, such as needles, fish-hooks, steel 
pens and springs, which require a milder degree of hardness tlmn 
13 given by witer. Gun lock-springs are sometimes Jried in oil 
for a considerable time over a fire, in an iron tray ; the thick parts 
are then sure to bo sufficiently reduced, and the thin parts do not 
bocorae the more softened from the continuance of the blazing 
heat. 

Saws and sj^rings are gencral'y hardened in various composi- 
tions of oil, suet, wa.x, &c. The saws are heated in long furnaces, 
and then immersed horizontally and edgeways into a long trough 
containing the composition. Part of the composition is wiped off 
the saws with a piece of leather, when they are removed from the 
trough, and heated one by one, until the grease intiames. Tliid is 
called " blaziiii/ 0//." The composition used by a huge saw manu- 
facturer is 2 lbs. suet, and \ lb. of bees'-wax, to every gallon of 
whale oil ; these are boiled together, and will serve for thin works 
and most kinds of steel. Tlie addition of black resin, about 1 lb. 
to each gallon, makes it serve for fhicker pieces, and for those it 
refused to harden b( fore ; but resin should be added with judg- 
ment, or the works will become too hard and brittle. 

To Hkih CE Oxide of 7a\c. — The oxide may ha put in quanti- 
ties of 500 or GOO lbs. weigiit into a large yr\ over the fire ; pour a 
sufficient quantity of mi;riatic acid over the top, to act as a fiux, 
and the action of the fire will melt the dross, when the pure metal 
"Will be found at the bottom of the i)ot. 

To Tempeii Taps oh Keameus without springing, select your steel 
for the job, and forgo the tnj# with a little more than the usual 
allowance, being careful not to heat too hot nor hammer too cold ; 
after the tii]) or reamer is forged, heat it and hold it on one end on 
the anvil. If a large one, hit it with the sledge : if asmall one, the 
hammer will do. This will cause the tap to bend slightly. Do not 
straighten it with tlie hamnxr, but on finishing and hardening the 
tap, it will become straight of its own accord. 

To HaiiDEn and Temper Cast Steel. — For saws and s]>rings in 
general the following is an excellent liquid : Sjjermaceti oil, 20 
gals. ; beef suet r'>i(/rre(/, 20 lbs. ; neat's-foot oil, 1 gal. ; ))itch, 1 
lb. ; black resin, 3 lbs. The hist two articles must be jireviously 
melted together, and then added to the other ingredients, when 
tlie whole must be iieated in a prt-pui: iron vessel, with a close 
cover fitted to it, until nil moisture is evaporated, and the compo- 



WW 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



177 



sition will take fire on a flaming body being presented to ita aur- 

Vulcanite Emery Wheels. — Use a compound of India rubber, 
nnii Wellingtou mills emery, as little of the former as will suflSce 
to hold tlie particles of emery together. The materials most be 
thoroughly incorporated together, then rolled into sheets, cat inttJ 
wheels of the desired size and pattern, pressed into iron moulds 
ami viilciinizod or cured by being subjected to a high degree ol 
steam heat for several hours, making it almost ash.irtTas cast iron. 

To HiiA/.R A Hand Saw. — Whitneifs method. — The tools required 
are a sin ill portable forge, brazing clamps, &c, and a straight edge, 
3 or 4 feet 1 uij,', also some brass wire and powdered borax. Take 
are used the saw and c!it it to the proper length, scarf the ends from one 

half to three-fourths of an inch, then put the saw in the clamps. 
I would say that I use a very small and simple clamp in the shape 
of a double vise. Keep the back of the saw out of the jaws of 
the vise, or clamps, and apply the straight edge to the back, as it 
is very necessary to braze it straight; make the fire in as small a 
compass as i)oss:blo ; place the clamps directly over the centre of 
the lire, and then put on three pieces of brass wire, bent in the 
form of the letter U, so that they will pinch the laps together ; put 
on as much borax as will lie on the saw, cover the whole with a 
piece of charcoal : melt the* brass so that it will flow over the saw 
before taking it off tht fire, and cool very slow so as not to male 
the braze brittle. File off what remains on the saw, and it is reai y 
for use. 

To uEjfovE Rust. — If you immerse the articles in kerosene oil and 
let them remain for some time, the rust will become so much loos- 
fined as to come off very Qiisy. 

To soLDKii FKURiiLKS FOR TOOL HANDLES. — Take your ferrule, lap 
loiind tlie jointin;j; a small piece of brass .wire, then just wet the 
ferrule, setter o i the joining ground borax, put it on the end of a 
wire, and hold it in the fire till the brass fusos. It will fill up the 
joining, and form a perfect solder. It may afterwards be turned in 
pour a theliitlio. 

Hakdknin'g Wood for Pulleys. — After a wooden pulley is turned 
and rubbed smooth, boil it for about eight minutes in olive oil ; then 
allow it to dry, and it will become almost as hard as copper. 

To Puiufy' Gas. — The purifier is to be fiU'-d with milk of lime, 
made by mixing 1 part of slaked lime with 25 parts of water. A 
very great improvement in the purification of gas has been effected 
hv'Mr. Statter, of England, by the employment of hydrated clay 
along with the liiae ejnjdoyed for this pur;)OSi.. Hydrated clay 
unites with the ammonia of the gas aa with a base, and, at the 
same time, with its sulphuret of carbon a3 an acid, and thus removes 
both of these noxious impurities from the gas exposed to its influence. 
It assists also, in conjunction with the lime, in rfcmoving tarry 
vapor and other impurities from the gas. The illuminating power 
of the gas is positively increased by the clay purification from 22 
to ?3§ per cent. 

To JOINT LEAD Plates. — The joints of lead plates for some pur- 
poses are made as follows : The edges are brought together, ham* 
mered down into a sort of channel cut out of wood, and secured 

w 



"'. I'll 

■ i 



m 



,1- 



^ 



•■' r 



V I 



?ll. 



81 .. 



1 . ■ , ,; 
' 11 • 



178 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C„ RECEIPTS 



ii 



is then scraped clean witli a acrapcr 
3, and a stream of liot loud is pouroi 

red hot 



with a few tacks. The hollow Is 

rubbed over with candle (grease, 

into it, the surface being afterwards smoothed with a 

plumber's ir()n. 

To JOINT Leau Pipes. — Widen out the end «f one pipe with a taper 
wood dritt, and scrape it clean inside ; scrape tlic end (*f tlio other 
pipe outside a little tapered, and insert it in the fomier : tlien solder 
it with common lead solder as before described; or, if it requires 
to be strong, rub a little tallow over, and cover the joint with a 
ball of melted lead, holding a cloth (2 or 3 plies of greased bed. 
tick) on the under side ; and smoothing over with it aad the plum- 
ber's iron. 

Tinning Interior op' Lead Pipes. — This invention consists in 
applying a flux of grease or muriate of zinc or any otlier (lux tliatwill 
protect the lead from oxidation, and insure a perfect coating of tin, 
when the tin is poured tlu-oujfh tiie i ipe or the pipe dipped into 
the bath of tin ; afier the lead pipe has been made, place the inline 
in a vertical or nearly vertical ijositiop, aad i)ass down through 
the same a strong cord, to which a weight is attached to draw the 
cord through t!ie i)ipo ; and at or near the other end of the cord .i 
sponge, or piece of other porous or elastic material, is attaclied, of 
a size to fill tlio pipe, and of any desired length, say iiiclios 
more or less. The sponge or porous wad being saturated witli the 
flux, is dra'vn through the pi[)C, and by its length ensures the 
covering of the entire inside surface of the inside of the pipes with 
the flux, so that the melted tin, subsequently applied, will adhore 
to all parts with uniformity and firmness. 

To SoKTEN Cast Ihon for TuuNiNti. — Steep it in 1 part of aqua- 
fortis to 4 of water, and let it remain in 24 hours. 

To Break Oi.n up Cannon. — Old cannon and massive castings 
nivy be cut in two by a continuous stream of hot molten iron, 
which wears away the iron as a stream of hot water would cat 
into a mass of ice. Or the gun may he rolled on a frame to ibi 
mou'h of a furnace, and the muzzle end s'loved in a.^ far as possible 

luted around the 
liie next charife 



among other iron, the opcniig HI! d up and 

gun, the end of which is melted olF. At 

shove it in another length, and so on until the breech is disposed 

of. 

Largo masses of cast iron may be broken np by drilling a hole 
in the m» t solid part, filling it with water, fitting a steclphig 
very accurately into the hole, and letting the drop of a pile driver 
descend on the ]'lug. 

Economic Luhricator. — India rubber, 4 lbs., dissolved in spirits. 
turpentine ; comiu i;i soda, 10 lbs. ; glue, 1 lb. ; water, 10 gal.; oil 
10 gal. Dissolve the soda and glue in the water by heat, then add 
the oil, and lastly, the dissolved rubber, mix well by stirring. 

To Lessen Friction in MACHixBiiv.— Grind together black lead 
with 4 times its weight of lard or tallow. Camphor is sometimes 
added "(7 lbs. to the hundredweight). 

Best Step for TrHniN'K W>iekt,s. — Swamp or rock maple '.? " 
bettor step than '\ther lignum vitse or elm for turbine wlicels. 

Water Ajinealino. — Heat the sttwl to a red heat, and let ii lie j, 
few minutes, until nearly black hot ; then throw it int J soap-suds; 



m 



TS 

'' "■ scraper 

'• "9 [loured 

a red hot 

with a taper 
"f" tlio other 
}]m\ solder 
it requires 
o'nt with a 
't'ascd bed. 
•1 the plum. 

consists in 

IX tliiitwill 

ting "t'tin, 

'ij'Pt'd into 

t? tlio iiarne 

n tiiroujrl) 

to (hnvr the 

ft he cord a 

tituu-hod, of 

ly C iiiclioij 

cd witli tlie 

lensiires the 

pipes with 

will adhere 

rt of aquii- 

vo ca?tingj 
KtlU'ii iron, 

■ would cat 
anio to tliii 

■ as poisihle 
ivroiind the 
?xt charge 

is disi)ose(l 

ling a hole 
I stcclphig 
pile drivtr 



1 in spirits. 
10 j;al.;oil 
t, then add 
ring. 

black lead 
sometimes 

maple b r 
'heels, 
let ii lie a 
3oup-siid3; 



^W 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 179 

gtcpl in t'l't' ^^"^' ^^'^' ^^ annealed softer than by patting it into 
the aHhefli.f the' forge. ^ ^ 

TK.\ii'i!;iiiNf! LiiM II). — To 7 quarts soft water, put in corrosive 
sublimate, U oz i common .salt, 2 handfuls ; when dissolvi d, it id 
read}' for use. Th(! first gives toughness to the steel, while the 
lattrr gives the hardness. Be careful with this preparation, as it 
j£ 11 (hiiigcrous ])oison. 

A.N oTHEU.- Salt, I tea-cup; saltpetre, 1 oz.; alum, pulverized, 
2 teaspoons? ; soft water, 2 gallons ; never heat over a cherry red, 
nor ■'""^v n,'iy temper. 

A.^oi'iiEU.— Saltpetre, sal-ammoniac, and alum, of each 4 oz. ; 
salt, 3 lbs. ; water, gallons ; and draw no temper. 

Anotiiku. — Saltpetre and alum, each, 2 oz. ; sal-ammoniac, J oz. ; 
salt. 1^ lb. ; soft water, 2 gallons. Heat to a cherry red, and plunge 
ill, drawing no temper. 

Aniitiiku. — Water. 2 gal.; saltpetre, J oz. ; pulverized borax, J 
oz. ; -inl-iiinmoniac, i oz. ; white vitriol, I oz. ; salt li pt. Do not 
haiiiiiirr t'>o c(dd, nor heat too high. If you follow the direction.-! 
previously given for tempering mill picks, you will generally come 
out all ri;.;lit. 

Rk.stohino Burnt Steel. — It is not generally known that burnt 
stet'l may bo almost instantaneously restored by plunging it while 
hot i 1 cold water, and hammering it with light strokes on the anvil, 
liiruing it so as to hammer all over it, again dipping in the cold 
water, and rei»eaiing the hammering p'ocess »i^ before. Try it ; if 
you don't succeed tin; fir.^t time, you will soon do so. We saw this 
done by Mr. T. S. Smith, while in Cincinnati, Ohio, and can vouch 
for tlio truth of this statement. Mr. Smith stated that it was nn 
accidental discovery of his own. 

1'.\i:kkk's ('oiteuIIaudenino process ia performed by introduc- 
ing in admixture of a minute quantity of phosphorus into the 
uieial. 

Fi rx FOR TTeldino Copper. — Boracic acid, 2 parts ; phosphate 
of sida, 1 pari; mix. This welding powder should bo strewn over 
t!u.' .siiit'ace of copper at a rod heat; the pieces should then bo 
heated up to a full cherry* red, or yellow heat, and brought imme- 
diately under the hammer. Heat the copper at a flame, or gas jot, 
where it will not touch charcoal or solid carbon. 

To iMi'uovE Poor Ikon. — Black oxide of manganese, 1 part; 
co|iperas and common salt, 4 parts each; dissolve in soft water, 
a id b )il till dry ; when cool, pulverize, and mix quite freely with 
nice w(dding sand. When you have poor iron which you cannot 
afford to throw away, heat it, and roll it in this mixture ; working 
fur a time, reheating, &c., will soon free it from all impurities, 
which is the cause of its rottenness. By this process you can make 
good horse-nails out of common iron. 

Case-Hardbning for Iron. — Cast iron may be case-hardened by 
heating to a red heat, and then rolling it in a composition com- 
posed of equal parts of prussiate of potash, sal-ammonia, and salt- 
ICM:', all pulverized and thoroughly mixed. This must be got to 
every ]>art of the surface ; then plunged, while yet hot, into a bath 
containing 2 oz. prns.siate of potash, and 4 oz. sal-ammoniac to 
each gallon of cold water. 




i Si- 




i 4e ■ ■ 



•I i '#-' ' 
!; I', ml 



ppani 



180 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC., RECEIPTS. 







To Weld Cast Iron.— The best way of welding cast iitin is to 
take it at a very intense heat, closely appioaching the melting 
point. In this state it will be found sufficiently malleable to stand 
the operation of welding by the hammer. There are other methods 
but most of them are attended by almost insurmountable difficul- 
ties. 

Hardening and Filling for Firb-phoop Safes.— Experience has 
shown that tae fire and burglar-proof diamond chill for iron or 
Bteel, described in another part of this work, has no superior as a 
hardening for c«^curity in the construction of safes ; and, as a non- 
conductor of heat, we would recommend a filling of plaster of Paris 
or alum. It is claimed by some that a mixture of both of these articles 
forms the best known filling for safes, as a'l external application of 
intense heat is certain to lil)erate a large quantity of water, which 
is transformed into steam, ihus ensuing entire safety to the contents 
of the safe. Other manufacturers employ a concrete filling for 
safes, and extol it very highly. Mr. Aloffiit, gas and steamfitter, 
Boston, has informed me that he has applied for orotcction iu 
the matter of a discovery by which he claims that lie can fully 
protect a safe against a double blast furnace heat, by means of an 
outside lining of bricks composed of asbestos and kaolin, a very 
small portion only of the latter material being used. From the 
well known incombustible nature of these materials, there can be 
no reasonable doubt but that the claim in question is a just one. 

For Malleable Iron. — Put the articles in an iron box, and stra- 
tify them among animal carbon, that is, pieces of horns, hoofs, 
skins, or leather, just sufficiently burned to no reduced to powder. 
Lute the box with equal parts of sand and clay ; then place it in 
the fire, and keep at a light rod heat for a length of time projjor- 
tioncd to the depth of steel required, when the contents of the box 
are emptied into water. 

Anotukr fob Wu ucnr IroN. — Take prussiate of potosh, 
finely pulverized, and roll the article in it, if its shape admits of 
it ; if not, sprinkle the powder upon it freely while the iron is hot. 

To Soften Cast Iron for Drilling. — Heat, to a cherry red, 
letting it lie level in the fire ; then with ai)air of cold tongs ])ut on 
a piece cf brimstone, a little less ii size than the bole will be when 
drilled, and it softens entirely through the \nccc ; let it lie in the 
fire until a little cool, when it is ready for drilling. 

To TEMPER Springs. — For teupering cast-steel trap springs, all 
that is necessary is to heat them in the dark, just so that you can 
see that they are red ; then cool them in lukewarm water. You 
can observe a much lower degree of heat in the dark than by 
daylight, and the low heat and warm water give the desired 
temper. 

Dipping Tools when Hardening. — To harden a penknife blade, 
lancet, razor, chisel, gouge-bit, plane, spoke-sliave, irou shaving 
knife, three and four square files, and round and flat files, dip them 
endwise or perpendicularly. This keeps them straight, which 
would not be the case were they dipped in the water obliquely. 

Cast Iron Ornaments arc rendered susceptible of being finished 
\\'ith h scraper, whore they cannot h(> reached with files, after hav- 
iiig the following liquid ai)plied to them. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



ISl 



Scaling Cast Iron. — Vitriol, 1 part? water, 2 parts; mix and 

iay oil the diluted vitriol witlv some old cloth in the form of a 



briis! 



LMMUfifh to wet tlie snrfiic(^ well . after 8 or 10 hours, wash 
oil' with Wilier, when the hard, scaly surface will be completely 
lemovT'd. 
Varnish for smootii mouldino Patterns — Alcohol, 1 gal. ; shellac, 

1 lb. ; liimp or ivory black, sufficient to color it. 

Iron LusTttE is obtained by dissolving a piece of zinc with 
muriatic a^id, aid mixing the solution with spirit of tar, and apply- 
ing it to the surface of the iron. 

To MELT SiEKL AS EASILY AT Lbad. — This apparent imnos.sibility 
is performed by lieating the bar of iron or steel rea hot, and 
then touching it with a roll of brimstone, when the metal will drop 
like water. Red hot iron can be easily cut with a saw. 

Patent LinuiCATixo Oil. — Water, 1 gal. ; clean tallow, 3 lbs. ; 
palm oil, 10 lbs. ; common soda, ^ lb. Heat the mixture to about 
210° Fahr. ; stir well till it cools down to 70*' Fahr., when it is fit 
for use. 

Black having a Polish for Iron. - Pulverized gum asphaltum, 

2 lbs. ; gun benzoin, i lb. ; sjtirits of turpentiue, 1 gal. ; to make 
(luick, keep in a warm place, and shake often ; shade to suit with 
tiiiL'iy .i^iound ivory black. Apply with a brush. And it' ought to 
he ii?o(l on iron exposed to the weather as well as on inside work 
doHiriii}^ a nice appearance or polish. 

VviMSH FOR lnoN. — Asphnltum, 8 lbs. ; melt in an iron kettle, 
slowly aililing boiled linseed oil, 5 gals.; litharge, 1 lb. ; and sul- 
jihale of zinc, ^ lb. ; continuing to boil for 3 hours; then add dark 
gum amber, l^lb. ; and continue to boil 2 hours longer. When 
cool, reduce to a proper consistence to apply with a brush, with 
spirits of tiicpcntine. 

Temi'euing Mill Picks. — Get double refined cast steel made 
expressly for mill picks. In drawing out the pick, use an anvil and 
hammer with smooth faces, and be careful not to heat the steel 
liigh'T liian a dark cherry red. Do not strike the pick on the edge 
when finishing it, but hammer it on the flat side, striking light and 
often, until the steel is qu'te dark, letting the blows fall so as to 
closo tlie lores of the steel. When a dozen picks are reaily to 
tcmi.er, get 2 gals, of rain water from which the chill should be 
taken, if in winter, by dipping a hof iron into it ; add 2 lbs. salt, and 
it is ready for use. Heat your pick graduallji from the centre ; let 
the heat run to the point, and when it is a dark cherry red, dip 
the ])oint vcrlicilly into the bath and hold it still. When the heat 
hp left the ])art immersed, take it out, and cool the balance of the 
pick in ordinary water. Be sure to heat and hammer well. 

Weldino Cast Steel. — Rock saltpetre, i lb. : dissolve in \ lb. oil 
vitriol ; and add it to 1 gal. water. After scarfing the steel, get it 
iiot ; and quench in the preparation. Then weld it the same as a 
]»ioce of iron, hammer it very quick with light blows. It answers 
the purposi^ much better than borax ; cork it in a bottle, and it will 
kei p f )i' years. 

AxoTiiEit.- Borax, IT) parts; sal-ammoniac, ... parts; cyanide of 
potassirim, 2 i)art.-! ; -lissuive all in water, and evaporate the water 
hi a. low tejnr.exfli.ura 




III 



t! 



-s i 



i 









182 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



■ . .-'I 



Case Habdbnino Compound.— Prussiate of potash, 3 lbs. ; sal-am. 
moniac, 2 lbs. ; bone dust, 2 lbs. 

Anothep. — Pulverized borax any quantity, and slijrhtiy color it 
with dragon's blood. Heat the steel red hot, shake tKe borax over 
it ; place it again in the tire till the borax smokes on the steel 
which will be much below the ordinary welding heat, and then 
hammer it. 

Cement to Resist Red Heat and Boiling Water. — Tc i or 6 
parts of clay, thoroughly dried and pulverized, add 2 parts of fine 
iron filings* free from oxide, 1 part of peroxyde of manganese 
1 part of common salt, and ^ part of borax. Mingle thoroughly' 
render as line as possible, then reduce to a thick paste with the 
necessary quantity of water, mixing well ; use immediately, and 
apply heat, gradually increasing almost to a white heat. 

Cement to Join bscTioNS of Cast-Iron W heels, &c.— Make a 

£as^e of pure oxide of lead, litharge, and concentrated glycerine, 
'nrivalled for fastening stone to stone or iron to iron. 

Varnish for Boilers.— Asphaltum dissolved in turpentine. 

{•OFT Cement fob Steam-b ulers, Steam-pipes, &c. — Red or 
white lead, in oil, 4 parts ; iron borings, 2 to 3 parts. 

Hard Cement. — Iron borings and salt water, and a small quan- 
tity of sal-ammoniac, with fresh water. 

Metal PoLisH.^Kotten-stone, followed by Paris white and 
rouge. 

Gasfitters' Cement.— Mix together resin, 4J parts ; wax, 1 
part ; and Venetian red, 3 parts. 

Plumbers* Cement. — Black resin, 1 part ; brick dust, 2 parts, 
well incorporated by a melting heat. 

Coppersmiths' Cement. — Boiled linseed oil and red lead mixed 
together into a putty^ are often used by coppersmiths' and 
engineers to secure joints ; the washers of leather or cloth are 
smeared with this mixture in a pasty state. 

Compositions to Fill Holes in Castings^ — Mix 1 part of borax 
in solution with 4 parts dry clay. Anoth'r: Pulverized binoxide 
of manganese, mixed with a strong solution of silicate of soda 
(water clay) to form a thick paste. 

Cast Iron Cement,— Clean borings, or turnings of cast iron, 16 



parts ; sa 



-ammoniac, 2 parts 



flour of =nlphur, 1 part ; mix them 



i 



well together in a mortar, and keep them dry. When required for 
use, take of the mixture, 1 part ; clean borings, 20 parts ; mix 
thoroughly, and add a sufficient quantity of water. A little grind- 
stone dust added improves the copient. 

Cement fob Steam-? ipe Joints,, etc., with Faced Flanoks.— 
White lead, mixed, 2 part>! ; red lead, dry, 1 part; grind, or 
otherwise mix them to a oonsifttence of thin putty ; apply inter- 
posed layers v/ith 1 or 2 thicknesses of canvas, or gauze wire, as 
tbe necessity of the case may be. 

Cement for Joints of Iron Pipes or Holes in Castings. — Take 
of iron borings, coarsely powdered, 5 lbs. ; of powdered sal- 
ammoniac, 2 oz. ; of sulphur, 1 oz , and watc sufficient to moisten 
it. Tins composition hardens rapidly, but, if time can be allowed, 
it sets more firmly without the sulphur. Use as soon as mixed, 
and ram tightly into the joints or holes. 



■ ; sal-am. 

y color it 

oorax over 

the steel, 

and then 

l-Tc i or 6 
farts of fine 
i-ianganese, 
Ihoroughly, 
fe with the 
Jiately, and 

[c— Make a 
glycerine. 

ptine. 
;c.— Red or 

small quan- 

whitc and 

rts ; wax, 1 

JSt, 2 parts, 

lead rnixed 
rsmitbs'and 
or cloth are 

irt of borax 
led binoxide 
:ate of soda 

;ast iron, 16 
t ; mix them 
required for 
parts ; mix 
little grind- 

Flanof.s.— 
; grind, or 
ipply inter- 
uze wire, as 

INQ3. — Take 
rt'dered sal- 
t to moisten 
be allowed, 
a as mixed, 



MACHlNIiTS, ENQINEEBS, &0., RECEIPTS. 182a 

CnfENTT(rMi:?iD Leaky Boilers. — Porvdered litharp^,2 parts, veiy 
fiT.c.^aud, 'I parts, slacked q^iiick lime, 1 part. Mix all together. To 
use, mix the proper quantity with boiled linseed oil and apply 
quick. It gets hard very soon. 

Fire Cement. — Fire clay, wet, 100 parts, white lead, 3 parts, 
powdered asbestos, ^ part, mix all together and use as mortar. 

Strong Cement for Steam Joints.— White lead ground in oil, 
10 parts, black oxide of manganese, 3 parts, litharge, 1 part. 
Eeduco to the proper consistency with boiled linseed oil and apply. 

Cement For Holes or Cracks. — Red lead ground in oil, G parts, 
vhito lead, 3 parts, oxide of manganese, 2 parts, silicate of soda, 
1 part, litharge, \ part, all mixed and used as putty. 

To Temper Ikon or JSteel Very Hard. — Pulverize and dissolve 
the following articles inl qt. hot water: blue vitriol, 1 oz., borax, 1 
oz., prussiate of potash 1 oz., charcoal, 1 oz., salt, \ pt., then add 1 
gal. linseed oil, mix well, bring your iron or steel to the proper 
heat and cool in the solution. It is said the manufacturers of the 
Judsou governor paid $100 for this receipt, the object being to case 
harden iron so that it would take a bright polish like steel. 

Railway Train Spked Table. — A train going 1 mile an hour 
travels one and seven-f.fteenths— say one and a half foot per sec- 
ond. To form a table of speed from these, data is a mere matter 
of multiplication. Example : — A train going 70 miles an hour 
travels per second 1 and 7-15 ft. multiplied by 70=102 and two 
thirds feet. 

German Welding Powder,'— Iron turnings, 4 parts; borax, 3 
parts, borate of iron, 2 parts ; water, 1 part. 

Tempering Swords and Cutlasses. — N. P. Amts, late of Chico- 
pee, Mass., after many costly experiments, found that the most 
successful means of tempering swords and cutlasses that would 
stand the U. S. Government test, was by heating in a charcoal fire, 
hardening in pure spring water, and drawing the temper in char« 
coal flame. 

Moxon's Case-Hardening Process. — Cow's horns or hoofs are 
to be baked, dried and piflverized in order that more may be got 
into the box with the articles, or bono dust answers very well. To 
this add an equal quantity of bay salt; mix them with stale 
chamber lye, or white wine vinegar ; cover the iron with this mix- 
ture, and bed it in the same in loam, or enclose it in an iron box, 
lay it on the hearth of the forge to dry and harden ; then put it into 
the fire, and blow till the lump has a blood red heat, and no higher, 
lest the iron mixture be burnt too much. Take the iron out and 
throw it into cold water. 

TcRNira AND Boring.— For turning, the proper speed for th»^cir- 
cnmfereuco is about fifteen feet per minute. The best speed for 
boring cast iron is about 7^ feet per minute. For drilling, about 10 
or II feet per minute is a good speed for the circumference of the 
tool. For a 1 inch drill, 40 revolutionti = 1 1 feet per minute, other 
sizes in proportion. 

How to fit Keys into Locks. — When it isnot convenient to take 
locks ajiart \\\ the event of keys being lost, stolen, or missing, 
when you wish to fit a new key, take a lighted match or candle 
and smoke the new key in the flame, introduce it carefuily into the 



i 



y.. 



m 






1825 MAGSmiSTS, ENOmSISRS, &0, BEOSIFTS. 



key-hole, press it firmly against the opposing wards of tho lock 
withdraw it, and the indentations in the smoked part of tho key 
will show you exactly where to file; 

Metal fou Models. — Tea lead, G lbs.; tin, ^ lb. , antimony, | lb. 

Alloys FOR Dentists' MoDLDS AND Dies. — 1. Tin, veri/ hard. Tin, 
16 parts; antimony, 1 part ; zinc, 1 part. 2. Copper alloy, very hard. 
Tin, 12 parts ; antimony, 2 parts ; copper, 1 part. 3. Tin, softer than 
No. 1. Tin, 8 parts; zmc, 1 part; antimony, 1 part. 4, Cadmium 
alloy about the hardness oj zinc. Tin, 10 parts; antimony, 1 part; 
cadmium, 1 part. 

Flux for ueddcing Lead Orb. — Red argol, 6 parts ; nitre, 4 parts ; 
borax, 2 parts ; fluorspar, 1 part ; grind well, . .d mix thorouglaly. 

Graham's Qcick Bronzing Liquids. — For immediate action on 
Copper, Brass, or Zinc, 1. Brown or Dark Bronze for Copper, Bran 
or Zmc. — Dissolve 5 drachms nitrate of iron in 1 pt. water ; or. 5 
drs. perchloride of iron in 1 pt. water. A black may also do 
obtained from 10 ozs. muriate of arsenic in 2 pts. permuriate of 
iron, and 1 pt. water. 2. Brown or Red Bronzing for Brass. Dis- 
Bolve 16 drs. nitrate of iron, and 16 drs. hyposnlphate of soda, in 

1 pt. water, or, 1 dr. nitric acid may bo substituted for the nitrate 
of iron. 3. Bed Brown Bronzing for Brass. Dissolve loz. nitrate 
of copper, and 1 oz. oxalic acid in 1 pt. water, brought to tnc boil 
and then cooled. 4. Bark Brown Bronziny for Brass., Mix 1 oz. 
cyanide of potassium, and 4 drs. nitric acid, with 1 pt. water. 5. 
Bed Bronzing for Brass. Mix 30 grs. tersulphito of arsenic, G drs. 
solution of pearlash, and 1 pt. water. 6. Orangp Bronzing on 
Brass. Mix 1 dr. potash solution of sulphur with 1 pt. water. 7. 
Olive Green Bronze for Brass. Dissolve 1 pt. permuriate of iron in 

2 pts. water. 8. Slate-coloured Bronzing for Brass. Dissolve 2 
drs. sulphocyanido of potassium, and 5 drs. perchloride of iron, in 1 
pt. water. 9. Steel Grey Bronzing for Brass. Mix I oz. muriate of 
arsenic with •! pt. water, and use at a heat not less than 180^ Fahr. 
10. Bright Red Bronzing for Copper. Mix 2 drs. sulphide of anti- 
mony, and I oz. pearlash in 1 pt. water. 11. Bark Red Bronze for 
Copper. Dissolve 1 dr. sulphur and 1 oz. pearlash in 1 pt. water. 
12. Copper Colored Bronzing for Zinc. Agitate the articles in a 
solution of 8 drs. sulphate -of copper, and 8 drs. hypoaulphate of 
Boda in 1 pt. water. 

Silver WmxH Bronze Powder, — Melt together I oz. each bis- 
muth and tin, then add 1 oz. quicksilver, cool and powder. 

Gold Colored Bronze Powder; — ^Verdigris, 8 ozs. ; tutty powder, 
4 ozs. J borax and nitre, each 2 ozs. ; bichloride of mercury, \ oz. ; 
n^ake into a paste with oil, and fuse them together. Used in japan- 
ning as a gold color. 

To Construct a Metronome. — Take a cheap clock movement 
and substitute for the pendulum a wire with a sliding weight, 
marking the wire with a file at tho different points of graduation. 
Used to indicate tho proper time in music. 

To MAKE DuALiN. — Diialin is made from paper stock, saturated 
with nitrate of potassium and dried in a furnace, then ground and 
mixed with uitro-glycerinc. Com itonnH parts of Nilvo-filyrerine. 
To 45 lbs. of concentrated sulphuric acid and 2J ibs, ot" conceu- 
trated nitric acid, add 1 lb. of glycerJue. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 183 



!io lock, 

the key 

/, I lb. 

U/ hard. 

\ter than 

idmiutn 

I part; 



^ pint: spirits of turpentine, 2 qts. Put all into a suitable 
xcept the turpentine, over a slow fire at first; then raise 



Black Varnistt for CoAri *Bccket3. — Asphaltnra, 1 lb. ; lamp- 
black, i lb. ; resin, ^ lb. ; sjurits of tur[)entiiie, 1 qt. Dissolve the 
ttsplialtiini and resin in tlie turpentine, then rub up th lamp-black 
with linseed oil, only sufficiont to form a paste, and mix with the 
others. Ajiply with a brush. 

SoLDEi! NO Fluid. — Take 2 oz. muriatic acid ; add zinc till bub- 
bles cease to rise ; add i teaspoonful of .^al-ammouiac. 

Japan Flow for Tin. — All CoLORS.-Gum sandarach, 1 lb. ; bal- 
sam of fir, balsam of tolu, and acetate of lead, of each, 2 oz. ; lin- 
seed oil, 

kettle, ex( . _ 

to a higher heat till all are melted ; now take from the fire, and, 
when a little cool, stir in the spirits of turpentine, and strain 
through a fine cloth. This is transparent; but by the following 
modifications, any or all of the various colors are made from 
it: 

2. Black. — Prussian blue, 1 oz. ; asphaltum, 2 oz. ; spirits of 
turpentine, h pint. Melt the asphaltum in the turpentine ; rub up 
the blue with a little of it ; mix well, and strain ; then add the 
whole to I i)int of the //•«/, above. 

3. Blue. — Indigo and Prussian blue, both finely pulverized, of 
eacli 2 ^''- i sjtirits of turpentine, 1 pint. Mix well, and strain. 
Add of this to 1 pint of the//r*< until the color suits. 

4. Rkd — Take spirits of turpentine, J pt. ; add cochineal, J oz. ; 
let stand '5 hours and strain. Add of this to the^Vs^ to suit the 
fancy. If carmine is used instead of cochineal, it will make a fine 
color for watch hands. 

.5. Yellow.— T kc I oz. of pulverized root of curcuma, and stir 
of it into 1 pt. of thc/r«^ until the color pleases you; let stand a 
fe"" hours, nnd strain. 

6. GuEBN. — Mix equal parts of the blue and yellow together, 
ttien mix with the^r«< until it suits the fancy. 

7. Orange. — Mix a little of the red with more of the yellow, and 
then with the ^rs^ as heretofore, until pleased. 

8. Pink.— Mix a little of#the blue to more in quantity of the red, 
and then with the^r.s^ until suited. Apply with a brush. 

Transpaue.nt Blue for Iron or Steel. — ^Demar varnish, ^ gal.; 
fine ground Prussian blue, i oz, ; mix thoroughly. Makes a 
splendid appearance. Excellent for bluing watch-hands. 

To Tin Copper Stew Dishes. &c. — Wash the surface of the 
article to be tinned with sulphuric acid, and rub the surface well, 
so ns to have it smooth and free of blackness caused by the acid ; 
Mien sprinkle calcined and finely pulverized sal-ammoniac upon 
the surface, holding it over a fire, when it will be sufficiently hot 
io melt a bar of solder which is to be rubbed over the surface. 
Any copper dish or vessel may be tinned in this way. 

To Copper the Suhface of Iron, Steel, or Iron Wire. — Have 
the article perfectly clean, then wash with the following solution, 
and it presents at once a coppered surface. Rain water, 3 lbs. ; 
sulphate of copper, 1 lb. 

Black Bronze on Thon or Steel, — The following mixtures are 
emidoyed: liquid No. I. A mixture of bichloride of mercury and 
s«l ammoniac. No. 2. A mixture of perchloride of iron, sulphate 



y . 



H I ; 



184 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS. &C., RECEIPTS. 



l\! 



■I 



of copper, nitric acid, alcoh>I and ■water. No 3. Perchloride and 
protochloride of mercury mixed with nitric acid, alcohol nud 
water. No. 4. A weak solution ut suli'hido of potassiiini. Clean 
your metal well and ap])ly fl slight coat of No. 1 with a sponge- 
when quite dry, apply another coat Remove the resulting crust 
of oxide with a wiro brush, rub the metal with a clean rag, nnd 
repeat this operation after each a]>plicaiion of these liquids. Now 
apply several coats of No. 2, and also of No. 3, with a luli sponge; 
then', after drying for ten minutes, throw the pieces of metal. into 
•water heated near the boiling point ; let them remain in the water 
from 5 to 10 minutes according to their size After being cleaned, 
cover again with several coatings of No. 3, afterwards with a 
strong coating of No. 4 ; then again immerse in tiie bath of hot 
water. Remove from the bath, drj', and wi]ie the pieces with 
carded cotton dipped in liquid No, 3, diluted each time with an in- 
creased quantity of water ; then rub .•in(i wijie ihem with a little 
oJ've oil ; again immer=e in a water bath heated to 140° Fahr., re 
move them, nib briskly with a woollen rag, and lastly, with oil. 
Unequalled for producing a beautiful glossy black on gun-barrels, 
steel, iron, &c. 

Tinning Small Articles. — Dissolve as much zinc scraps in muri- 
atic acid as it will take up, let it settle, then decant the clear, and 
it is ready for use. Next prepare n, suitable iron vessel, set it over 
the fire, put your tin therein, and 'daelt it, and put as much mutton 
or beef tallow as will cover liie tin al)out | inch thick. This 
prevents the oxidation of the metal ; but be very careful that 
the tallow does not catch fire. The iron, oraiy other metal to be 
tinned, must be well cleaned, cither withscrajjing, filing, polishing 
with sand, or immersion in diluted vitriol. Proceed to wet the 
articles in the zinc solution, then ciircfully immerse them in the 
tallow and melted tin ; in a very short time'they will be perfectly 
tinned, when they may be taken out. 

Gold Lacqueh for Tin. — Transparent, All CoLORS.-Alcohol in 
a flask, I pt. ; add gum shellac, 1 oz ; turmeric, \ oz. ; red sanders, 
i oz. Set the flask in a warm place, sliake frequently for 12 hours 
or more, then strain oft' the liquor, riuse the bottle, and return it, 
corking tightly for use. 

When this varuish is used, it must be applied to the work freely 
and flowing, and the articles should be hot when applied. One 
or more coats may be laid on, as the color is recpiired more or le?3 
light or deep. If any of it should become thick from evapuration, 
at any time, thin it with alcohol. And by the following modifica- 
tions, all the various colors are obtained : ' 

2. RoSR Color. — Proceed as above, substituting \ oz. of finely 
ground best lake in place of the turmeric. 

3. Blub. — The blue is made by substituting pulverized Prussian 
biue,^ OZ'., in place of the turmeric. 

4. PtTRPLE. — Add a little of the blue to i\iQ first. 

5. Green. — Add a little of the rose-color to XhQ first. 

Crystallized Tin-Plate. — The figures are more or leas beauti- 
ful and diversified, according to the degree of heat and relative 
dilution of the acid. Place the tin-plate, slightly heated, over a 
tub of water, and rub its surface with a sponge dipped in a liquor 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 185 

composed of 4 parts of aqnafortia and 2 of distilled water, holding 
1 p»rt of common salt or sal-ammoniac in solution. Whenever the 
crystalliue si)angle3 seem to be thorouglily brought out, the plate 
must be immersed in water, washed either with a feather or a little 
cotton (taking care not to rub off the tilm of tin that forms the 
featberiag), forthwith dried with a low heat, and coated with a 
lacquer varnish, otherwise it loses its lustre in the air. If the whole 
surface is not plunged at once in cold water, but if it be par- 
tially cooled by sprinkling water on it, the crystallization will be 
finely vanegated with large and small figures. Similar results will 
be obtained b^ blowing cold air through a pipe on the tinned sur- 
face, while it IS just pp*ssing from the fused to the solid state. 

To Crystallize Tin. — Sulphuric acid, 4 oz. ; soft water, 2 to 3 
oz., according to strength of the acid ; salt, li oz. Mix. Heat the 
tin hot over a stove, then, with a sponge apply the mixture, then 
wash off directly with clean water. Dry the tin, and varnish with 
demar varnish. 

To Clean avd Polish Brass. — Oil of vitriol, 1 oz. ; sweet oil, J 
gill; pulverized rotten stone, 1 gill; rain water, IJ pts. Mix all, 
aad shake as used. Apply with a rag, and polish with buckskin 
or old woollen. 

Silvering Powder. — Nitrate of silver and common salt, of each, 
SOgrs. ; cream of tartar, 85 drs. Pulverize finely, mix thoroughly, 
and bottle for use. Unequalled for polishing copper and plated 
goods. 

Tin Cans.— Size op Sheet, for from 1 to 100 Gallons. 

For 25 gallons, 30 by 56 inches. 



For I gallon, 


7 by 20 


inches. 


For 25 


3i " 


10 by 28 




40 


5 " 


12 by 40 




50 


6 " 


14 by 40 




75 


10 " 


20 by 42 




100 


15 •' 


30 by 42 







36 

40 
40 
40 



by 
by 



63 
70 
84 
98 



(( 



This includes all the laps, seams, &c., which will be found suffi- 
ciently correct for all jiruclical purposes. 

Tinning Iron. — Cleanse thetnetal to be tinned, and rub with a 
coarse cloth, previously dijipcd in hydrochloric acid (muriatic 
acid), and then rub on French putty with the same cloth. French 
putty is made by mixing tin filings with mercury. 

Tinning. — 1. Plates or vessels of brass or copper boiled with a 
solution of stannate of polassa, mixed with turnings of tin, become, 
in the course of a few minutes, covered with a firmly attached 
layer of pure tin. 2. A similar efF>ct is produced by boiling the 
articles with tin-filings and caustic alkali, or cream of tartar. In 
the above way, cliemical vessels made of copper or brass may be 
easily and perfectly tinned. 

New Tinning Process. — Articles to be tinned are first covered 
with dilute sulphuric acid, and, when quite clean, are placed in 
warm water, then dipped in a solution of muriatic acid, copper, and 
zinc, and then plunged into a tin bath to which a small quantity 
of zinc has been added. When the tinning is finished, the articles 
are taken out, and plunged into boiling water. The operation is 
completed by placing them in a very warm sand-bath. This last 
process softens the iron. 





186 MACniNTSTS, ENGINEERS. &C.. RECEIPTS. 

Kustitien's Metal fob Tinnivo. — Malleable iron, 1 lb . r,oat to 
wbiteuesd ; add *) oz regulns of iiutiinony, und Mi.lufi'! tin, 24 lbs 

Galvanizino Ikon. — The iron i»laies arc first imiiiorsiid m a 
cleaising balh of equal parts of suliilmric or muriatic iicid and 
water used warm; they are then scrubbed with euiery or siind to 
clean them thoroughly and detach all soaU-.s if any are left, after 
which they are immersed in a '' jireparing bath" of equal parts of 
saturated solutlotis of chloride of zinc and chloride of ammonium 
from which bath they are directly transferred to the fiuid •• metal' 
lie bath," consisting, by weight, of 340 lbs. zinc to 106 lbs. of mer- 
cury, to which are added from 5 to G oz. of sodium. As eoon as 
the iron has attained the lemy)erature of this hot fluid bath, which 
is 680® Fahr., It may bo removed, and will then be found tho- 
roughly coated with zinc A little talluw on the surface of the 
metallic bath will prevent oxidation. 

Parte for Cleaning Me pals— Take oxalic acid, 1 part; rotten- 
stone, 6 parts; mix, with equal parts of train oil aiad spirits of tiir. 
pentine, to a paste 

To Prevent Iron or, Ste^l from Rustino.— Warm your iron or 
steel till you cannot bear your hand on it without burning your^ 
self, then rub it with new and "lean white wax. Put it again to 
the fire till it has soaked in the wax. When done, rub it over wiih 
a piece of serge. This prevents the metal from rusting afterwards. 

Bronzing LiyciD.s for Tin Castings.— Wash them over, ui.er 
being well cleaned and wiped, with a solution of 1 jiartolsiilijjiate 
of iron and 1 of suljjhate of copper, in 20 jjarts of water; after- 
wards, with a solution of 4 parts verdigris in 11 of distilled viue- 
gar; leave for (la hour to dry acu then polish with a goft brush 
and colcothar. 

Fancy Colors ON Metals. — 1 Dissolve 4 oz hypo-sulphite of soda 
in 1^ pts. of water, and then add a solution of I oz. acetate (it'leud 
in 1 oz. of water. Articles to be colored arc i)laced in tin- ini.xture, 
which IS then gradually heated to the boiling point This will give 
iron the color of blue steel, zinc becomes bronze, and copper or 
brass becomes, successively, yellowish, red, scarlet, deep blue, 
light blue, bluish white, and finally white, with a tinge of rose. 2. 
By replacing the acetate of lead m the solution by sulphate of cop- 
per, brass becomes, first, of a fine rosy tint, then green and lastly, 
of an irridescent brown color 

Coating Iron Castings with Gold or Silver. — The articles to 
be gilded are well cleaned and boiled in a jiorcelain vessel, 
together with 12 parts of mercury, i of zinc, 2 of iron vitrid, l-J of 
muriatic acid of 1.2 specific gravity, and 12 parts of water ; ir a 
"hort time a layer of mercury will deposit upon the iron, and upon 
:his the gold amalgam maybe uniformly distributed. Iron to be 
jilvered is first jjrovided with a coating of copper, upon which the 
silver is applied either by means of amalgam or silver leaf. 

Brunswick Black for Ghatks, &c. — Asphaltum. 5 lbs.; melt, 
and add boiled oil, 2 lbs. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 gal Mix. 

B;iONZE Paint FOR Iron. — Ivory black, I qz. ; chrome jvllow, 
1 oz. : chrome green, 2 lbs.; mix with raw linseed oil, adding ii 
little japan to dry it, and you have a very nice bronze green. If 
desired, gold bronze may be put on the prominent parts, as on the 



Tfl 



JIACIUNiST.S, ENGINEERS, itC, RECEIPTS. 



187 



1.."' 



tips ortdgM ct'an iron railing, when the paint is not quite dry, 
,ji'iL' a piece of velvet or plush to rub on tno bronze. 

liLtiNCJ ON Ukvolvkrs anu Gun BAUUKL8 is performed by simply 
l.uiitirig Uio piece to bo blued in powdered charcoal over a tire until 
liie desired color is obtained. 

15nowNiN'> FOR Gun Bakrels.— Spirits of nitre, 1 lb ; alcohol, 1 
lb.; coiTosu'e sublitniite, 1 oz ; mix in a bottle, and cork for use. 
D:rectioii3 : polish the barrel perfect ; then rub it with quick lime 
with a cloth, which removes grease and dirt; now apply the 
browuin^f tliiiu with a clean white clolh, apply one coat, and set it 
in a vf&vm diirk place for from 10 to 20 hours, until a red rust forms 
,m it; tlien curd it down with a gunmaker's card, and rub off with 
a clean cloth. Repeat the process if you wish a dark shade. 

IJHOWNiNU FOR TwiST Baiirkls. — S[)int,; ot nitre, ^ oz, ; tincture 
ol stoel, ;| oz. ; or use the unniedicated tincture of iron if the tinc- 
turu of steel cannot be obtained ; blacl< brimstone, i oz. ; blue 
Vitriol, i oz. , corrosive sublimate. /; oz. ; nitric acid, I dram ; 
roiipcras, i oz , mix with U pints rain water, and bottle for use 
Fills is to be applied; the same as the first; it causes the twist of" 
the barrel to bo visible after application, a quality which the other 
iiqiiitl (lues not [»osses3. 

IJltOWNlNO (.'O.MPOSITIONS FOR GuN BARRELS. — 1. BtuC Vltrlol, 4 

OZ ; luK'tiiie of muriate of iion, 2 oz. ; water, 1 <|t. ; dissolve, and 
add aquafortis and sweet spirits of nitre, of each, 1 oz. 2. Blue 
Vitriol luid sweet sj>irits of nitre, of each 1 oz. ; aquafortis, i oz ; 
water, 1 p:iit. To be used m the same manner as previously 
describeil in this work, 

Vaiini.sii A.Ni) Polish for Gun SrocKS. — Gum shellac, 10 oz.; gum 
pandiuiuli, 1 oz. ; Venice turi)eiitine, 1 dr. ; 'JS iKircent. alcohol, I 
pil.; slmke the jug occasionally for a day or two, and it is ready 
fir use. Apidy a few coats of this to your gun stocks, polish by 
rubbing smooth, and your work is complete, 

iJiiAss FOR IIkavy Castings. — Copper, G to 7 parts; tin, 1 pari; 
zinc, 1 part. ' 

Ykli,o\v Bhass (for castim/). — 1. Copper, Gl. 6 parts : zinc, 35.3 
piirts; lead, '2.9 parts; tin, 0.2 parts. 2. Brass of Jemappes. — 
Cupper, <l4.(j parts; zinc, 33.7 parts; lead, 1.4 jiarts ; tin, 0.2 parts. 
3. Shi'.d Brass oj Slolberij, near Aix la C/iapelle.—Co^\)cr, 64.8 
jiarts ; zinc, 32.8 parts ; lead, 2.0 parts ; tin, 0.4 parts. 4. D^Arcets 
llniss for (rildiiii/. — Copper, 63 70 parts ; zinc, 33.55 parts ; lead, 
0,i5[ia.rt:, tin, 2 50 parts, 5. Ajiother. —Com)er, 64.45 parts ; zinc. 
32,i'! iHirtc ; lead, 2.8G parts ; tin, 0.25 parts. 6. Sheet Brass of 
llmillii. — Copper, 70.1 parts ; zinc, 29.9 parts, 7, English Brass 
irw.— Copper, 70.29 parts; zinc, 29. 2G parts; lead, 0.28 parts; 
tin, 0,17 parts. 8. Auf/shurg Brass If ire.— Copper, 71.89 parts; 
line, 27.G3 parts , tin, 0.85 parts. 

Rw) BiiAss, FOR Gilt Articles. — 1. Copper, 82.0 parts ; zinc, 18.0 
parte; lead, 15 parts; tin, 3.0 parts. 2. Another. — Copper, 82 
parts; zinc, 18 parts; lead, I p.'irt • ; tin, 1 part. 3, Another. — 
Copper, 82.3 parts; zinC; 17.0 parts; tin, 0.2 parts. 4, French 
Tombac Jor ISword Ilandlen. — C'pper, 80 parts; zinc, 17 parts; tin, 
■ part:. 5. For Parma:i Ornaments. — ('opper, 85 parts; zinc, 15 
?:..'t- tii.y li trace. G. Used /or (Jennan Ornaments— Copper, 86.3 



Hi 






* \ 




\h\ 



it, 



I 






I 






if 



Pl't'r, 



188 MACHINISTS, ENCJINEEKS, icC, KKCEll'T.S. 

parts , zinc, 14 7 parts. 7. C/infsnrha/lc.—Co]>\M'T, W).0 pails ;/j,|(. 
7.9 parts; lend, l.G j)arts. 8. lied 'Atmbac /rum J'uiis.—{^L,^j 
[)2 parte ; zinc, 8 paf-ts. ' 

Compositions.— I. For strong jmmi's, .^'c— Coj ])or. 1 lb.; j^j^^ 
J oz ; tin, 1^ oz. 2. For tnolhcd tv/mls.—iJoYiwr, 1 li)'. ; liruss, 2ti7, • 
tin, 2 oz. 3. Copper, 1 lb. ; l>rass, 2 or,. , tin, ];\ oz. 4. Fi,r <,«•„! 
tn(/ work. — Co|)per, 1 lb.; brass, 1.] oz. ; tin, 2 oz. 5. For nnh „j 
coarse threads 'tnd bcaring9.—VjO^\Mi\\ 1 li; ; brass, I2OZ, ;tin 
2i oz. 6. For hearings to sustain great weights. — Cojiimt, 1 Hj '■ 
ziuc, i oz.; tin, 2h oz. 7. J'ewlerer.f' triiificr. — Tin, 2 Ihs. ; copiifV 
1 }b. Used to add in small quantities to tin. 8. I/ard hfiiriixjH 
machinery. — Copper, 1 ib ; tin, 2 oz. y. Very hard <//</(>.— Cop] 
1 lb.: tin, 2j oz. 

ANTi-tmcTiON MetaTj. — 1. Copper, 4 lbs. ; rcf^ulus of aiitimonv 
8 Iba. ; lianca tin, 90 lbs. 2. Grain riuc, 7.' Ihs. ; piiriliotl ■ml 
7i lbs.; antimony. 1 lb. 3. Zinc, 17 jjiirts ;* coi)pcr, 1 ])iut ; ami' 
niony, \h i)arts. This possesses unsurpassable anti-t'rictiou quiili. 
tie8, and does not require the protection of outer casings of a 
biirder metal. 4. Block tin, 8 lbs. ; antimony, 2 lbs. ; copper, lib, 
If the metal be too hard, it may be softened by adding soiii'' lead' 
5. The best alloy for journal boxes is composed of copper, 24 lbs.; 
tin, 24 lbs. ; and antimony, 8 lbs. Molt the copper first, llien iidd the 
tin, and lastly the antimony. It should be first rui\ into iiignts, 
then melted, and cast in the form required for the bo.xes. 0. Mel) 
in a crucible 1^ lbs. of copper, and, while the coi)pcr in imltinj; 
melt in a ladle 25 lbs. of tin and 3 of antimony, neaiiy reil hot, 
pour the two together, and st^r until nearly cool. Thi^ 'iiiikis tlic 
finest kind of linii'g metal. 7. Very chap Lead, 1 00 lbs. ; ami- 
mony, 15 lbs. This costs abouo 10 cents per lb 

Yem-ow Bkassfor Thrnino. -(Common article. )-Copper, 20 lbs.; 
zinc, 10 lbs. ; lead, 4 oz. 

Red Brass, fhee, for Turning.— Copper, IGO lbs. .; zine, 50 lbs,; 
lead, 10 lbs. ; antimony, 44 oz. 

Another Brass for Turning.- Copper, 32 lbs. ; zine, 10 lb.; 
lead, 1 lb. 

Best Red Brass, for Fine Castings.— Copper, 24 Ih-*. ; zinc, 
5 lbs. ; bismuth, 1 oz. Put in the bismuth last befon- pouring otl'. 

Bronze Metal. — Copper, 7 lbs, ; zinc, 3 lbs. ; tin, 2 Ihs. 

BiiONZE Metal. — Copper, 1 lb.; zinc, 12 lbs. ; tin, 8 Ibt^. 

Bell Metal, for lakgr Bells. — Copper, 100 lbs. ; tin, from J\ 
to 25 lbs. 

Bell Metal for small Bells.— Copper, 3 lbs. ; tin, 1 11). 

Cock Metal. — Copper, 20 lbs. ; lead, 8 lbs. ; litharge, 1 oz ; an- 
thnony, 3 qi'k. 

Hardening For, Britannia.— fTo be mixed separately from tlie 
other ingredients.) — Copper, 2 lbs. ; tin, I lb. 

Good Britannia Metal. — Tin, 150 lbs. ; copper, 3 lbs. ; aHti- 
mony, 10 lbs 

Britannia MetaL;, 2d quality. — Tin, 140 lbs. } coi)per, 3 lbs.; 
antimony, Q lbs. 

Britannia Metal, for Casting.— Tin, 210 lbs.; copper, 4 lbs., 
antimony, 12 lbs. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEEUS, aC., RFX'EIl'TS. 189 

Dritanma Mktal, fob Spinning.— Tin, 100 lbs. ; Brltnnnia har- 
dciiini,', -l ll)S- ; anliinony, 4 lbs. 

VViinK >S()i.i)KK, FOR UA18KI) HiiiTANNiA Ware. — Tin, 100 Ibs. ; 
coiipt'i", 3 oz., to make it fre(5 ; and luad, 3 oz. . 

JJiiiTANMA Mktal, fou Rkgisteus. — Tin, 100 Ibg. ; hardening, 8 
Ibb.; iiiiliinuiiy, H lbs. 

Best JiiaiANNiA fou Spouts. — Tin, 140 lbs, ; copper, 3 lbs. ; anti- 
mony, (J ll'S. 

llEST liiiiTANNiA FOU Si'OONS. — Tin, 100 Ibs. ; hardening, 5 lbs. ; 

iiiiiiiiioiiy) 10 ii)d. 

Hest JliiiTANNiA FOU HANDLES. — Tin, 140 Ibs. *, coppcr, 2 lbs. ; an- 
timony, 5 IIjS. 
UEsi'KiiiTANNiA, FOR Lamps, Pillauh, and Spouts.— Tin, 300 lbs.' 



topper, 1 ll»s. ; uuliniuiiy, 15 
OA.sri\(i.— Till, 100 lbs.; li 



a lbs. 



lardoning, 5 lbs. ; antimony, 5 lbs. 

LiM.Mi Mktal FOR Boxes of Uailkoad Cars.— Mix tin, 24 ibs. ^ 
copper, 4 lbs.; antimony, y lbs.; (for a hardening), then add 
liii, 72 11)3. 

Fine Silver Colored Metal. — Tin, 100 lbs.; antimony, 8 lbs.; 
coiipcr, 4 ll)s. ; bismuth, 1 lb. 

Gekman Silver, First Quality, for Casting. — Coppcr, 50 lbs. ; 
zinc, 25 lbs. ; nickel, 25 lbs. 

Gekma.n Silver, Second Quality, for Casting. — Coppcr, 50 lbs. ; 
zinc, 20 ll)rf. ; nitkel (best jmlverizcd), 10 lbs. 

Gekman Silver, for Rolling.— Copper, GO lbs. ; zinc, 20 lbs. ; 
nickel, 2;') lbs, 

Gekman Silver, fou Bells, and otheu Castings.— Copper, 00 
bs, ; zinc, 20 lbs. ; nickel, 20 lbs. ; lead, 3 lbs. ; iron (that of tin 
'ilate lu'iiig best), 2 lbs. 

iMiTATiuN OF SiLVEU. — Tin, 3 oz. ; copper, 4 lbs, 

PiNcmiECK.— Copper, 5 lbs. ; zinc, 1 lb. 

ToMHAc— Copjier, 10 lbs. ; tin, 1 lb. ; zinc, 1 lb. 

Ued Tomrac. — ('opper, 10 lbs. ; zinc. 1 lb. 



-Sheet brass, 32 oz. ; lead, 2 oz. 



; tin, 2 oz. ; 
bis- 



Haku WiiiTE Mktal. 
zinc, 1 oz 

Metal for taking Impukssions. — Lead, 3 lbs. ; tin, 2 lbs 
mutii, 5 lbs. 

ISpanisii Tutania. — Iron or steel, 8 oz. ; antimony, IG oz. ; nitre, 
3 oz. Molt and harden 8 oz. tin with 1 oz. of the above com- 
pound. 

Kivet Metal. — Copper, 32 oz ; tin, 2 oz. ; zinc, 1 oz. 

Kivet Metal, fob Hose.— Tin, G4 lbs. ; copper, 1 lb. 

FusinLE Alloy. — (Wiiich melts in boiling water.) — Bismuth, 8 
oz. ; tin, 3 oz. ; lead, 5 oz. 

FisHSLE Alloy, for Silvering Glass.— Tin, G oz. ; lead, 10 oz. : 
bismuth, 21 oz. ; mercury, a small quantity 

Hest Soft Solder, fob Cast Ijuitannia Ware. — Tin, 8 lbs. ; 
lead, 5 11)3. 

Hhass Solder. — 1. Copper, 61.25 parts ; zinc, 38.75 parts ; 2. 
(Vellow and easily fusible) copper, 45 jiarts ; zinc, 55 parts ; 3. 
(Wiiitr) copper, 57.41 parts; tin, 14(10 jiarts ; zinc, 27.99 parts. 

Spelter Solder. Equal parts coppcr and zinc. 

Solder for Copper.— Copper, 10 lbs. ; zinc, 9 lbs. 



R^^ 

fe '^'^' 




I 



V 

1 ' 



n 



( 



1 



190 MACllINIS'JVS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



.T) 



lbs. 



2mc. 



V'ellow Soldbu, fo" Buabs or CorpEn.— Copper, 
20 lbs. ; tin, 1 lb. 

Black Soldku.— Copper, 2 lbs. ; zinc, 3 lbs.; tin, 2 oz. 

Black SoldRk.— Shet't brass, '20 lbs. ; tin, (J lbs. ; zinc, 1 \h 

I'KWTEiiKits' Sort SoLDBKS.— 1. Bismuth, 2 ; lead, 1 ; tin ,'} part 
2. Hismutli, 1 ; lead, 1 ; tin, 2 j)art8. ' '" 

Plumbeus' Soldeh. — Lead. 3 parts; tin, 1 part. 

SoLDEii. — For leaJy the solder is one juirt tin, 1 to 2 of load for 
fw, 1 to 2 parts tin to ono of lead ; for zinc, I juirt tin to 1 to 2 of 
lead ; for }iewter, 1 part tin to 1 of lead, and 1 to 2 parts of bis. 
miitb. 

The surfaces to be joinfid arc made perfectly clean and smooth 
and then covered with sal-ammoniac, or resin, or botii ; the sold^ 
is then applied, being melted in, and smoothed over hy tliD soldtr- 
lug iron. 

To SoLDBR Iron to sTEicii, op. ErrnEu to Brass.— Tin, ,'^ parts 
copper, 39A parts ; zinc, 7A i)arts. "When applied in a molten stale 
it will firmly unite the nietuls first named to each other. 

Coppersmiths' Soldkr.— Tin, 2 parts ; lead, 1 part. W lion the 
copjier is thick, heat it by a naked fire ; if thin, use. a tiiiniHl cop- 
ier tool. Use muriate or chloride of zinc, or resin, us a lliix. The 
same solder will do for iron, caxt iron, or steel ; if thick, lnjut by a 
naked fire, or immerse in the solder. 

Cold Brazing, without a kire orLamp.— F'uoric acid, i oz. loxy- 

a lead bottle. Put u chalk niarl each 



This nuxture will keep about « 



muriatic acid, ^ oz. ; mix in 
side where you want to braze, 
months in one bottle. 

Plumbers' ISolukr. — Bismuth, 1 part; lead, 5 parts ; tin, 3 parts is a 
first class comi)osition. 

Cold Soldering without Ji re or lamp. — Bismuth, J oz. ; quick- 
silver, ioz.; block tin filiuf^s, loz. ; spirits salts, 1 oz., mixed together. 

New and Beautiful Alloys.— Copper, (M.H parts; niekej, 19.8 
parts ; zinc 5.5 parts ; cadmium, 4.7 parts ; used for spoons, forks, &c. 
Another. Copper, 89.3 jjarts ; aluminum, 10.5 parts. (Jreiile resm- 
bling Gold. Coi)per, 79.7 parts ; zinc, 83.05 parts ; nickel, 0.09 parts, 
with a trace of iron and tin. 

Chinese White Copper.— Copper, 40.4; nickel, 31.G ; zinc, 25,4; 
and iron, 2.6 parts. 

Bath Metal. — Brass, 32 parts; zinc, 9 parts. 

Speculum Metal. — Copper, G ; tin, 2 ; and arsenic, 1 part. Or, 
copper, 7; zinc, 3 ; and tin, 4 parts. 

I3RITANN1A Metal. -Brass, 4 parts ; tin, 4 parts ; when fn.'^od, add 
bismuth, 4 ;• and antimony, 4 parts. This composition is added ai 
(iiscretion to melted tin. 

Superior Bell Metal. — Copper, 100 lbs. ; tin, 23 lbs. 

Electrum. — Copper, 8; nickel, 4; zinc, 3^ parts. This compound 
is unsurpassed for ease of workmanshii)and beauty of appearance. 

TiNMANs' Solder. — Lead, 1 ; tin, 1 part. 

Pewtbrers' Solder. — Tin, 2 ; lead, 1 part. 

Common Pewter. — Tin, 4 : lead, 1 part. 

IJest Pewter.— Tin, 100 ; antimony, 17 parts. 

Queen's Metal.— Tin, 9 ; antimony, 1 ; bismuth, 1 ; h ad, 1 pr-rt, 

Watou-Makeus' Brass.— Copper, 1 part; z'ne, 2 parts. 



MACHINISTS, ENaiNKBRS, AC., RECEIPTS. 



101 



A JfKTAL THAT KXPANDS IN CooLiNO.— Lcad, 9 ; antimony, 2 ; 
toiiilli, 1 pint- This metal is very uaefiil in liiling small defocts 
iu iron aastiiiRS, &e. 

Gkkman I5UA8S.— Copper, 1 part; zmc, 1 part. 

Aliuta Mktal.— Nickel, 3 to 4 parts ; copper, 20 parts ; zinc, 10 
piirts. Hsod for plated goods. 

limnm Ti-atk — Nicitel, 5 to G parts ; copper, 20 parts ; zinc, 8 
to 10 piirtH. Tsod for plated gooas. 
! luu'ts of bi".' I C'iiaxtuy's Haiid Alloy.— Copper, 1 lb. ; zinc, 2 J oz. ; tin, 2} oz. 
■^ * in- ■ ]|,i7„r3 an hiinl us tempered steel have been made from this alloy. 

Hard Whuk Mktal for Buttons.— iirass, 1 lb. ; zinc, 2 oz. ; tm, 

lOK. 

Bi(i.Mi.vniiAM Platin.— Copper, 8 parts ; zinc, 5 parts. 

(iKRMA.N SiLVKU. — 1. Copper, 40.02 parts ; zinc, 43.70 parts 
nici(el, l'i.02 parts. 2. Copper, 41.47 parts; zinc, 20.08 parts 
nickel, .32. 4r) parts. 3. Copper, 55.r)5 parts ; zinc, 5.55 parts 
nioiit'i, :5H.'J0 parts. 4. Copper, 53.40 parts; zinc, 29.10 parts 
nii;kei, 17.,')0 parts. 5. (Al/enide contains a trace of iron) — 
C )|i|ier, 50.00 parts ; zinc, .30.30 parts ; nickel, 10 10 parts. 

limi'ANNrA Mktal. — 1. Copper 0.30 narts; tin, 89.70 parts ; zinc, 
0.30 parts; autimonv, 9.70 parts. 2. Copper, 1.85 parts; tin, Hl.04 
piirlg ; antimony, 10.51 parts. 3. Copper, 0.91 parts; tin, 89,97 
parts; aatiinony, 9.12 parts. 4. Tin, 90.00 parts; antimony, 10 
parts. 5. Copper, 1.78 parts ; tin, 89.30 parts ; antimony, 7.14 
jiarts; bismuth, 1.78 parts. 

Gu:^ Mktal.— Copper, 90 parts ; tin, 10 parts. 

Meltixcj I'oi.NT OF Mktals.— Iron fuses at 2787* Fahr. ; gold at 

l',>0HiO; fiilvtr. 1873®; copper, 1991; = ; zinc, 773=; antimony, 

bismuth, 470 to 507 = ; nickel, 030 = ; tin, 442 = ; lead, 334= ; 



H0!)O: 

[mercury volatilizes at 070 = . 
CiiNESE Uo.NO Mktal. — Copper, 



Allov kdh Gu.v Mounti.nos. — Cop|)er, 80 



78. parts ; tin, 22.00, 



l)arts ; tin, 3 ; zinc, 17. 
; tin, 97.31 



-Copper, 2.0G parts; 



WuiTB Mktal von Table Bells 
[parts; bi.smuth, 0.03 parts 

Clock IJkll Mktal.— Copper, 75.19 parts, tin, 24.81 parts. 

Sdoket .Mkpal Foa Loco.motivb A.xlk-tukks. — 1. Copper, 80.03; 

[tin, 13.07; 2. (French) Copper, 82 parts; tin, 10 parts; zinc. 

Is parts; .3. (Ste/t/ienson\'i) Co(»per, 79 ))iirts ; tin, 8 parts; zinc, 5 

ic 1 part Or Biff's I load, 8 parts; 4. (liclf/ian) Copper, 89.02 i)arts ; tin, 2.44 

' ^ ■ ' ^parts; zinc, 7.70 parts ; iron, ().7H parts; 5. (/'Jif/lixh) Copper, 73.90 

parts; tin, 9. 19 parts ; zinc, 9.03 parts; lead, 7.09 parts; iron, 0.43 

[parts. 

I5rass.— 1. Copper, 73 parts ; zinc, 27 i)i\rt3 ; 2. Copper, G5 parts; 
Iziiic,:!;") parts; 3. "Copiter, 70 parts; zinc, 30 i)arts. 

Alloy vni Mechanical Instrumknts. — Copper, 1 lb.; tin, 1 oz. 

Mam.raulk HiiAss- 1. Copper, 70.10 parts; zinc, 29.90 parts ; 2. 
V^iijierior) ('opper, 60 jjarts ; zinc ; 40 parts. 
I liuTTo.v .Makeiis' Metal.— 1. Copper, 43 parts ; zinc, 07 parts ; 2. 
[Copper, 02.22 parts ; tin, 2.78 parts ; zinc, 35 parts ; 3. Copper, 
|58.94 parts ; tin, 5.28 parts ; zinc, 35.78 parts. 
I Metal for SLmma Levers of Locomotive.s. — 1. Copper, 85.25 
Iparts; tin, 12.T5 parts; zinc, 2.00 parts ; 2. {Fenton's) Copper, 5.50 
iparts; tin. 14.50 narts : zinc. 80 parts. 



fk 



V' ' r 



f,' » 



> i ' 



i 



■I 



. ( 



mmm 



102 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



Alloy for Cylindehs of Locomotives. — Copper, 88.63 parts 
tin, 2.:i8 parts ; zinc, fi.OO parts. ' 

Alloy for Stuffino IJoxes of LoCcmotive3.— Copper, DO.Oi] 
parts ; tin, 3.50 ))arts; zinc, 6.38 parts. 

Amalgam for Mirrors. — 1. Tin, 70 parts ; mercury, ?.0 jiarts; 2. 
{For curved mirrors) Tin, 80 parts; mercury, 20 parts; 3. Tin, 8.33 
parts ; lead, 8.34 parts ; bismuth, 8.33 parts ; mercury, 75 purts' 
4. {B'or spherical mirrors) Bismuth, 80 parts ; mercury, 2G parts. 

Reflector Metal. — 1. ('/^«</v>^fr's)Zinc, 20 parts ; silvor. 80 parts' 
2. Copper, 6G.22 parts; tin, 33.11 parts; arsenic, 0.t;7 parts ;3! 
( Coo/ i^P-s) Copper, 57.86 parts; tin, 27.28 parts; zi no, :!.30 parts; 
arsenic, 1.65 parts; platinum, 9.91 parts; 4. Copper, Ct parts; tiii| 
32.00 parts ; arsenic, 4.00 ])arts ; 5. Copper, 82.18 j)iirts; load, 9.22 
parts ; antimony, 8.60 parts ; 6. (Little's) Copper, 6'J.Ol parts; tia, 
30.82 parts ; zinc, 2.44 parts; arsenic, 1.83 ]mrts. 

Metal for Gilt Wakes. — 1. Copper, 78.47 parts ; r..i, 2.87 parts; 
zinc, 17.23 parts; lead, 1.43 parts; 2. Copper, 64.4;{ parts; tip, 
25 parts; zinc, 32.44 parts; lead, 2.86 parts ; 3. Copper, 7243 
ptir;q; tin, 1.87 parts; zinc, 22.75 ])arts ; lead, 2.06 parts; 4. Cuji. 
per, 70.00 parts ; tin, 2.00 j)arts ; zinc, 24.05 ])arts ; lojul, ;i.05, 

Spurious Silver Leaf. — Tin, 90.09 parts; zinc, 9.91 ])iirts. 

Shot Metal. — 1. Lead, 97.06 parts ; arsenic, 2.93 parts-. 2. Leai 
99.60 parts; arsenic, 0.40 parts. 

I'isMUTH Solder. — Tin, 33.33 parts ; lead, 33.33 parts ; tjismntli 
33.34 parts. 

Glazieus' Solder. — Tin, 3 parts ; lead, 1 part. 

Amalgam for Electkical Maciii.nes. — 1. Tin, 25 parts; zinc, 
25 parts ; mercury, 50 parts. 2. Tin, 11.11 parts ; zinc, 22.22 parls; 
mercury, 66.67 parts. 

Type Metal. — 1. For smallest and most brittle tj/pes.—Lni,i 
parts; antimony, 1 part. 2. For small, hard, brittle ^//if.s'.— LeaiU 
parts ; antimony, 1 ])art. 3. For tiipes of medium size. — Lead, o 
parts; antimony, 1 part. 4. For large types. — Lead, 6 jiarts; anli- 
mony 1 i)art. 5. For larfiest and softest tj/pes. — Lead, 7 i)arts; 
antimony, 1 part. In addition to lead and antimony, ty]>e metal 
.ilso contains 4 to 8 per cent, of tin, and sometimes 1 to 2 jtiTCont 
of copper. Stereotype jdates arc made of lead, 20 parts ; anti- 
mony, 4 parts ; tin, 1 part. 

I'liAss FOR WiUE. — Copper, 34 parts ; calan.ine, 56 parts : mix. 

IJuiTANNiA Metal. — 1. Tin, 82 parts; lead 18 parts; I)rass,5 
parts; antimony, 5 parts; mix. 2. Brass, ; oart; antitiiouv, t 
parts ; tin, 20 parts : mix. 3. Phae-brass, tin, bis'nutli, iind anti- 
mony, of each equal parts. Add this mixture to melted tin until 
it acquires the proper color and hardness. 

Bronze.— 1. Copper, 83 parts; zinc, 11 parts; tin, 4 parts ;leai1, 
2 parts ; mix. 2. Copper, 14 parts ; melt, and add zinc, G parts; 
tin. 4 parts; m'x. 

Ancient Bronze. — Copper, 100 parts ; 
parts : mix. 

Alloy for Bronze Ornaments.— Copper, 82 parts ; zinc, IS 
parts ; tin, 3 parts; lead, 3 parts ; mix. 

iiKAUTiFtiL Red Buonze Powder. — Sulpliate of copper, I'lO parts; 
carbonate of soda, 60 parts: apply heat intil they unite iutoar.ias* 



lead and tin, eacli," 



[PTS. 

88.63 parts; 
■('opper, OO.Oi; 

T, 30 parts; 2 
ts ; 3. Tin, 8,33 

'iry, 75 parts; 
ury, 2G parts, 
silver, 80 parts; 

0<">7 prtrts ; 3. 
;iiic, \\M parts; 
!•, <'>4 parts ; tin, 
'firts; h'a(l,9.2J 
j;».01 parts ;tia, 

;^:.i, 2.87 parts; 

4.4.'{ parts; tip, 

(Copper, ?J.4.1 

)iarts ; 4. Qii\<. 

loiul, :i.05. 
.91 ])iiris. 
parts; 2. Leai 

pnrts ; bismnth 

25 pnrts; zinc, 
inc, 22.22 parts: 

^///>^s.— Lead, 3 
(>//ies. — Lead, 4 
I siza. — Lead, 5 
1, G parts ; anli- 
-Load, 7 parts: 
ony, typo melal 
! I to 'J percent 
20 parts ; aiiti- 

50 parts : mix, 
parts; brass, 5 
rt ; aiitiiiioiiy, 4 
'niitli, and anti- 
iR'lted titi until 

n, 4 parts ; lenii, 
zinc, G parts; 

,nd tin, each,' 

parts ; zinc, 18 

|)per, 100 parts; 
lite iutoar.ias* 



AtAClIINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTii. 1^3 

then cool, and add copper filings, 15 parts. Well mix, and keep 
tlieiii at a ^vliite heat for 20 minutes ; then cool, powder, wash, 

BitoNzixd Fr-i'iD FOR Guns. — Nitric acid, sp. gr. 1. 2 parts; nitric 
ether alcohol, muriate of iron, each 1 part: mix, then add sulphaU 
of copper, 2 parts, dissolved in water, 10 parts. 

Canxon MKTAii. — Take tin, 10 parts ; copper, 90 parts : melt. 

Statl'auy lUiONZE. — 1. Copper, 88 parts ; tin, 9 parts ; zinc, 2 
parts; lead, 1 part. 2. Copper, 82^ parts; tin, 5 parts; zinc, lOiJ 
parts; lead, 2 parts. 3. Copper, 90 parts; tin, 9 parts ; lead, 1 

part- 
IkoNZE, FOR Medals.— Copper, 89 parts ; tm, 8 parts ; zinc, 3 

p,art3. 
Brass, for Heavy Work. — Copper, 100 parts ; tin, 15 parts. 



zinc, 1") i)arts. Another. — Copper, 112 parts ; 
Bra.ss, for Tuhes. — Copi)er, 2 parts ; zinc, 
At.Lov, forCvmrals. — Copper, 80; tin. 20. 



tin, 13 ; zinc, 1. 
1 part. 



MiuKous OF IiKFi.KCTi.Nd Tele.scoi'es. — Coppcr, 100 ; tin, 50. 
White Arcextan. — Copper, 8 parts ; nickel. 3 parts ; zinc, 35 
parts. This beautiful composition is in imitation of silver. 



(Jhinkse Silver.— tSilver, 
of iron, 0.12; nickel, 13. 
TuTENAfi.— Copper, 8 ; 

PlilNTIN'l CUARACTERS.-l 



2.5; copper, 05.24; zinc, 19.52; cobalt 



nickel, 3 ; 



zinc, 5. 



Lead, 4 ; antimony, 2. 
type plates, lead, 25 parts; antimony, 4 parts ; tin, 
' Fine White German yiLVKR. — 1. For C'asU 



2. For stereo- 
1 part. 
iiffs. Lead, 3 parts ; 

nickel, 20 parts ; »inc, 20 parts ; copper, GO parts : mix. 2. For 
MlkKj. Nickel, 5 }iart3 ; zinc, 4 parts ; copper, 12 parts : mix. 

i.\iiTATioN Pi,atim;m. — Melt together 8 parts brass and 5 parts of 
zinc. Tills alloy very Jiiosaily re^^erables ])latinum. 

L\iiTATR)N Goi-i). — Platina, 8 parts ; silver, 4 parts; copper, 12 
parts: melt all together. 

I.MiTATU)N Silver. — Block-tin, 100 parts ; antimony, 8 parts ; bis- 
miitli, 1 jHirt; copjier, 4 parts : melt all together. 

To.\inA(", OR Red Brass.— Melt together 8 parts of copper and 1 
part of zinc. 

Parisian P>ell-Metal. — Copper, 72 parts ; tin, 26^ parts ; iron, 
\\ jiarts. Used for the dcUs of small ornamental clocks, 

I!i:i,i,-.Mktal. — 1. Coppei-, 2.") parts ; tin, 5 jiarts : mix. 2. Cop- 
per, 7t» parts ; tinj 2G parts : mix. 3. Copper, 78 ]iarts ; tin, 22 
parts : mix. 

Piu.m'e's aMETAL. — 1. Copper, 3 parts ; zinc, 1 part. 2. Brass, 8 
parts; zinc, I ])art. 3. Zinc and copper, equal parts : mix. 

Qi;i»;n's Mi^tal. — I. Lead, 1 \n\vi\ bismuth, 1 part; antimony, 1 
part, ; tin, 9 parts : mix. 2. Tin, 9 jiarts ; bismuth, 1 part; lead, 2 
pftfts ; antimony, 1 part : mix bv melting. 

UiiASS.— Copper, 3 parts : melt, then add zinc, 1 part. 

IUjTton-.Makerb' Fink Brass. — Brass, 8 parts ; zinc, 5 parts. 

Pit ton-Makers' Common Brass. — Button brass, G parts; tin, 1 
part; lead, 1 part : mix. 

OiioAN Pii'KS consist of lead alloyed with abouthalf its quantity 
of tin to harden it. The mottled or crystalline appearance so 
wiidi admired shows an abundance of tin, 



\ 



\' ( 



^1^ 



'i 



<■ I 





,;^ 


fi • 




i 


>y ^ 



! W 



mn 



194 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



11 



il 






! 



I 



Baron Wetterstedts Patent Shkatiiino for ships consists of 
lead, with from 2 to 8 per cent ot antimony ; about 3 per cent is 
the usual quantity. Tlio alloy is rolled into sheets. 

Lead Shot are cast by letting the metal run through a narrow 
slit into a species of colander at the top of a lofty tower- tlie 
metal escapes in drops, which, for the most part, assume' tlie 
spherical form before they reach the tank of water into which thoy 
fall at th'^ foot of the tower, and this i)revents their being bruised 
They are afterwards riddled or sifted tor s-'ze, and afterwards 
churned in a barrel with black lead. 

iMetal fo- Anatomical Injections. -Tin, 16.41 parts lead 9.2] 
parts; bismuth, 27.81 ]>arts ; mercury. 4G.41 parts. 

Yellow Dipmno Mktal. — Copper. 3J lbs ; G to ? oz zinc to 
every lb. of copper. 

Lead Pipk-* are now manufactured by hydraulic pressure, instead 
of by the old process of drawing out on triblets. 

Mlntz Metal FOR Ships.— Best selected copper, GO parts; be'st 
zinc, 40 parts. Melt together in the u=^ual manner, and roll into 
sheets of suitable thickness. This composition resist: oxidation 
from exposure to sea-water, and prevents the adhesion of barna- 
cles. 

Acid Bronze.— Cobalt, 4 lbs. ; pulverize ; sift through a fine 
Fieve ; put in a stone pot; add ^ gal. nitric acid, a little at a time, 
stirring frequently for 24 hours"; then add about 5 gals, muriatic 
acid, or, until the work comes out a dark brown. 

Alkali Bronze. — Dissolve .^> lbs. nitrate of copper in ,3 gals, 
water, with 5 lbs. pearlash ; add 1 or 2 pints potash water; then 
add from 2 to 3 lbs. sal-ammoniac, or, until the work comes out 
the required color. 

Coatino Dip. — Sulphate of zinc, 8 lbs.; oil of vitriol, 5 gals. ; 
aqua fortis, % gal. To use, warm up scalding hot. 

To Clean and Polish Hhas>. — Wash with alum boiled in srrmjr 
]ye, in the proportion of an ounce to a pint; afterwards rub wiili 
strong tripoli. Not to be used on gilt or lacquered work. 

Ormolu Colorino. — Alum, .31) inuts ; nitrate of potassa,. TO parts; 
.Ted ochre, .30 parts ; sulphate of/ino, 8 parts ; common salt, 1 jtart; 
i^lphate of iron, 1 part. It i.s ai)plied with a soft brusii. The articles 
•re placed over a clear charcoal fire until the salts, m'4te(l and 
dried, assume a brown aspect. They are then suddenly cooled in 
nitric acid water containing .3 per cent, of hydrochloric acid ; after- 
wards washed in abun<laiice of water and dried in sawdust. 

Quick Bright Dipping Acd, for Brass which has been OaMOr 
l.UED. — Sul|ihuric Acid, 1 gal. ; nitric acid, 1 gal. 

Dipping Acid. — Sulphuric acid, 12 lbs. ; nitric acid, 1 pint; nitre, 
4 lbs. ; soot, 2 handfiils ; brimstone, 2 oz. Pulvi-rize the brimstone, 
and soak it in water an hour. Add the nitric acid last. 

Good Dipping Acid for Cast Brass. — Sulphuric acid, 1 qt.; 
nitn;, 1 qt. ; water, I qt. A little muriatic acid may be added or 
omitted. 

Ormolu Dipping Acid, for Sheet Brass, — Sulphuric acid 2 gals.; 
nitric acid, 1 pt, ; muriatic acid, 1 pt. ; nitre 12 lbs. Put in the 
muriatic acid last, a little at a time, and stir the mi.xturc with a 
Stick, 



!3urc. instead 



woter; then 
k comes out 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS, 195 

DipPiNO Acid. — Sulphuric acid, 4 gals ; nitric acid, 2 gals ; satu- 
rated solution of sulphate of iron (copperas), 1 pint; solution of 
^Iphate of copper, 1 qt. 

OiiMOLU Dipi'LNG Acid, for Sheet or Cast Brass.— Sulphuric 
adkl, 1 eral. ; sal ammoniac, 1 oz. , sulphur (m flour), 1 oz. ; blue 
vitriol,! oz. ; saturated solution of zinc in nitric acid, mixed with 
an equal ffuantity of sulphuric acid, I gal. 

To PitEi'AHE Bhass Work for Ormolu Dipping. — If the work is 
oily, boil it in lye ; and if it is finished work, filed or turned, dip 
it in old acid, and it is then ready to be ormolued ; but if it is un- 
jinLslied, and free from oil, pickle it in strong sulphuric acid, dip in 
pua nitric acid, and then in the old acid, after which it will be 
ready for ormoluing. 

To Hkpaiu Old Nitric Acid Ormolu Dips. — If the work after 
dipping appears noarse and spotted, add vitriol till it answers the 
])m'pose. If tlie work after dipping appears too smooth, add muri- 
atic acid and nitre t411 it gives the right appearance. 

Tiie other ormolu dips should be repaired according to the 
receipts, puttinj? in the proper ingredients to strengthen them. 
They efliould not be allowed to settle, but should be stirred often 
while using. 

TiNXiNG Acid, for Brass or Zinc. — Muriatic acid, 1 qt. ; zinc, 6 
oz. To a solution of this, add water, 1 qt. ; sal-ammoniac, 2 oz. 

YiNKCAR Bkonze, FOR Brass. — Vinegar, 10 gals. ; blue vitriol, 3 
Us.; muriatic acfd, 3 lbs. ; corrosive sublimate, 4 grs. ; sal-ammo- 
niac, '2 lbs. ; alum, 8 oz. 

UiiiECTioNs FOR MAKING Lacquer. — Mix the ingredients, and let 
the vessel containing them stand in the sun, or in a ])lace slightly 
wanned, three or four days, shaking it frequently till the gum is 
di.^s()lved, after which let it settle from twenty-four to forty-eight 
horns, wlien the clear liquor may be poured off for use. Pul- 
verized glass is sometimes used, in making lacquer, to carry down 
the impurities. ' 

Laci^uer for Dipped Brass. — Alcohol, proof specific gravity not 
less than 9r)-100tli3, 2 gals. ; seed lac, 1 lb. ; gum copal, 1 oz. ; 
English saffron, 1 oz. ; annotto, 1 oz. 

Lacquer for Bronzed Bhass.— To one pint of the above lacquer, 
add fraiiibngo, 1 oz. ; and, after mixing it, add an equal quantity of 
the hrst lac<iuer. 

Deep (ioi.d-colorkd Lacquer — Best alcohol, 40 oz. ; Spanish 
iiinotto, 8 grs. ; turmeric, 2 drs. ; shellac, i oz. ; red Sanders, 12 
grs. ; when dissolved, add spirits of turpentine, 30 drops, 

Dekp Gold-colored JiACQUER for Brass not Dipped. — Alcohol, 
4 gills. ; turmeric, 3 lbs. ; gamboge, 3 oz. ; gum sanderach, 7 lbs.; 
ahelhic, 1* lbs.; turpentine varnish, 1 pint. 

(tni,D-coLORKD Lacquer, for Dipped Brass. — Alcohol, 36 oz. ; 
feed hic, oz. ; amber, 2 oz. ; gum gutta, 2 oz, ; red sandal wood, 
24 prs. ; dragon's blood, GO grs. ; oriental saflfron, 36 grs. ; pulve^ 
rized glass, 4 oz. 

Gold Lacquer, for Brass. — Seed lac, 6 oz. ; amber or copal, 2 
m. ; best alcohol, 4 gals. ; pulverized glass, 4 oz. ; dragon's 
hlood, 40 grs. ; extract of red sandal wood obtained by water, 30 
gfs. 








si] 


' i;-' 


.„ ■!■,:.:• 


■:■' W\ 




196 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECKII'TS. 



:^ 1 



Lacquer fou Dipped Brass.— Alcohol, 12 gals. • seed lac, 8 lbs. ; 
turmeric, 1 lb. to a gallon of the above mixiuru ; bpanisb saffron 4 
oz. The saffron is to be added for bronze work. 

Good Lacqceb.— Alcohol, 8 o/. ; gamboge, 1 oz. ; shillac, 3 oz, • 
annolto^ 1 oz. ; solution of 3 oz. of seed lac in 1 pint of alcohol' 
when dissolved, add i oz. Venice turpentine, { oz. dragon's bloodj 
will make it dark ; keep it in a warm place four or five days. 

To Bronze Iron Castings.— Clonnse thoroughly, and afterwards 
immerse in a solution of suljjhate of co])per, when the castings will 
acquire a coat of t ae latter metal. They must be then washed in 
water. 

Antique Bronze Paint. — Sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. ; cream tartar, 3 
oz. ; common salt, 6 oz. Dissolve in 1 pint hot water, tlu'ii add 
2 oz. of nitrate of copper dissolved in ^ pint water, mix well, and 



apply it repeatedly 
brush. 



to the article, in a damp situation, with a 



Gilders Pickle. — Alum "ad common salt, each, 1 oz. ; nitre, 2 



oz. ; dissolved in water, ^ pt. Used to imj)art a rich yi.-llow color 



to gold surfaces. It is best used largely diluted with water. 

To Silver Ivory. — Pound a small piece of nitrate of silver in a 
mortar, add soft water to it, mix them well together, and keep in 
vial for use. When you wish to silver any article, immerse it in 
this solution, let it remain till it turns of a deep yellow ; then place 
it in clear water, and expose it to the rays of the sun. If you wisli 
to depicture a figure, name, or cipher, on your ivory, dip acamol's- 
hair pencil in the solution, and draw the sul)ject on the ivory. 
After it has turned a deep yellow, wash it well with water, and 
place it in the sunshine, occasionally wetting it with pure water. 
In a short time it will turn of a deep Vdackcolor, which, if well 
rubbed, will change to a brilliant silver. 

Pale Lacquer for Tin Plate. — Best alcohol, 8 oz. ; turmeric, 4 
drs. ; hay saffron, 2 scs. ; dragon blood, 4 scs. ; red Sanders, 1 sc. ; 
sliellac, 1 oz. ; gum sanderach, 2 urs. ; gum mastic, 2 drs. ; 
Canada balsam, 2 drs. ; when dissolved, add spirits of turpentine, 
80 drops. 

RedL-vcquer for Brass.— Alcohol, 8 gals.; dragon's blood, 4 
lbs. ; Spanish annotto, 12 lbs. ; gum sanderach, 13 lbs. ; turpentine, 
1 gal. 

Pale Lacquer, for Brass. — Alcohol, 2 gala. ; Cape aloes, cut 
small, 3 oz. ; pale shellac, 1 lb. ; gamboge. 1 oz. 

Blue Bronze on Copper. — Clean and polish well, then cover the 
surface with a fluid obtained by dissolvi'ig vermilion in a warm 
solution of sulphide of sodium, to which some caustic potassa has 
been added. 

Application of Bronze Powders. — The proper way is to varnish 
the article and then dust the bronze powder over it, after the 
varnish is partially dried. 

Bronze Dip. — Sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. ; salt of sorrel (binoxohite of 
potash), i oz. dissolved in vinegar. 

Parisian Bronze Dip. — Sal-ammoniac, I oz. : common salt, J 
oz. ; spirits of hartshorn, 1 oz. dissolved in an English quart of 
vinegar. A good result will be obtained by adding I oz. of sal- 
ammoniac, instead of the spirits of hartshorn. The piece of metal 



Machinists, engineers, &c., receipts. 



19? 






bciug well clenned is to be rubbed wiih one of these solutions, then 

dried by friction with a fresh brush. 
Best Lacquer, for Brass. — Alcohol, 4 gals. ; shellac, 2 lbs. ; 

'amber gum, 1 lb. ; copal, 20 oz. ; seed lac, 3 lbs. ; saffron, to color; 

pulverized glass, 8 oz. 
CoLOB FOR Lac }UBn. — Alcohol, 1 qt. ; annotto, 4 oz. 
Ghee.v Bhonzk Dip. — Wine vinegar, 2 qts. ; verditer green, 2 oz. ; 

siil-ammoiiiac, 1 oz. , salt, 2 oz ; alum, ^ oz. ; French berries, 8oz. ; 

toil the ingredient.'? togetlier. 
Aqua fortis Bronze Dip. — Nitric acid, 8 oz. ; muriatic acid, 1 

tjt. ; sal-ammoni:ic, 2 oz. ; alum, 1 oz. ; salt, 2 oz. 
OiiivE Bronzk Du', for Brass. — Nitric acid, 3 oz. ; muriatic acid, 

2oz. ; add titaiiuni or palladium, when the metal is dissolved, add 

2 gals, pure soft water to eiich pint of the solution. 
BkownBro.nze Paint, for Copper "VEsaE'..s —Tincture of steel, 4 

oz. ; spirits of nitre, 4 oz. ; essence of lendi, 4 oz. ; blue vitriol, 1 

oz. ; water, I pint. Mi.x in a bottle ; apjdy it witl* a fine brush, the 

vessel being full of boiling water ; varnish after the application of 

the bronze. 
Bronze for all kinds of Metal. — Muriate of ammonia (sal-ara- 

nioniac), 4 drs. ; oxalic acid, 1 dr. ; vinegar, 1 pint. Dissolve the 
ovalic acid first; let the work be clean ; put on the bronze with 
a brush, repeating the operation as many times as may be neces- 
siry. 

Bronze Paint, for Ii:on or Brass. — Chrome green, 2 lbs. ; ivory 
black. 1 oz. ; chrome yellow, 1 oz. ; good japan, 1 gill ; grind all 
liDfretlier, and mix with linseed oil. 

Green BRo^zB. — Dissolve 2 oz. nitrate of iron, and 2 oz. hypo- 
fiulpliite'^of soda, in 1 pt. water. Immerse the article until the 
required shade is obtained, as almost any shade from brown to red 
can be obtained, according to the time of immersion, then well 
vrash with water, dry and brush. 

Pale Deep Olive Green Bronzk. — Perchloride of iron, 1 part ; 
■rrater, 2 jiarts ; mix, and immerse the brass. 

Dark Green. — Saturate nitric acid with copper, and immerse 
the brass. 

Dead Black on Buasswork. — Rub the surface first with tripoli ; 
then wash it with a solution of I part neutral nitrate of tin, with 2 
parts chloride of gold ; after 10 minutes wipe it off with a wet cloth. 

Removing Zinc and Iron from Plumbkrs' Solder. — Digest the 
metal in grains in diluted sulphuric acid. The acid will dissolve 
the zinc fir^it, the iron next, and all traces of these metals by sub- 
sequent washing. 

Tinning Cast Iron. — Pickle your castings in oil of vitriol; then 
(over or immerse them in muriate of zinc (made by putting a suffi- 
cient quantity of zinc in some spirit of salt): after which dip it in 
»i melted bath of tin or solder. 

Silverino by Heat. — Dissolve 1 oz. silver in nitric acid; add a 
small quantity of salt ; then wash it and add sal-ammoniac, or 6 
oz. of salt and white vitriol ; also J oz. corrosive sublimate ; rub 
tliem together till they fonn a paste ; rub ftio 'piece which is to be 
silvered with the paste ; heat it till the silver runs,' after which dip 
it in a weak vitriol pickle to clean it. ' *' - -^ ^' — .^^- 





mm 



Ids 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., REOEU'Tis. 



To Tin Copper and Brass.— Boil G lbs. cream of tartar and 4 
gals, of water and 8 lbs of grain tin or tin shavings. After the 
material has boiled a sufficient time, the articles to be tinned are 
put therein and the boiling continued, when the tin is precipitated 
on the goods in metallic form. 

Mixture for Silvering. — Dissolve 2 oz. of silver with 3 grs. of 
corrosive sublimate ; add tartaric acid, 4 lbs. ; salt, 8 qts. 

To Separate Silver from Copper. — Mix sulphuric acid, 1 part' 
nitric acid, 1 part ; water, 1 part ; boil the metal in the mixture till 
it is dissolved, throw in a little salt to cause the silver to subside. 

To Write in Silver. — Mix 1 oz. of the finest pewter or block tin, 
and 2 oz- of quicksilver together till both t)ecome Huid, then grind 
it vvith gum water, and write with it. The writing will then look 
as if done with silver. 

Best Bronze for Brass. — Take 1 lb. muriatic acid, and J lb. 
white arsenic. Put them into an earthen vessel, and then proceed 
in the usual manner. 

Another Bronze for Brass.— One ounce muriate of ammonia, { 
oz. alum, i oz. arsenic, dissolved altogether in 1 pt. of strong 
vinegas. 

Zincing. — Copper and brass vessels may be covered with a firmly 
adherent layer of pure zinc by boiling them in contact with a solu- 
tion of chloride of zinc, pure zinc turnings being at the same time 
present in considerable excess. 

Clouding Metal Work. — Metal work may be clouded by putting 
a piece of fine emery ])aper under the thumb or finger, and work- 
ing it over the surface of the metal with a spiral motion. 

Cement for Belting. Waterproof. — LMssolve gutta percha in 
bisulphide of carbon to the consistence of molasses, slice down 
and thin the ends to be united, warm the parts, and apply the 
coment, then hammer lightly on a smooth anvil, or submit the 
parts to heavy pressure. 

To Prevent Incrustation in Boilers. — 1, Charcoal has a great 
affinity for any thing that causes scale or incrustation in boilers. 
That mad> from hard wood is ii)e best, broken in lumps of i t o i 
inch in size, and the dust sifted out. Two bushels of this will 
generally protect a boiler of 30 horse power for 3 weeks, when 
running, after which the old coal should be removed and fresh coal 
used. 2. Throw into the tank or reservoir from which your boiler 
is fed, a quantity of rough bark, in the piece, su(;h as tanners use, 
sufficient to turn the water of a brown color; if you have no tank, 
put into the boiler from a half to a bushel of ground bark wiien 
you blow off, repeat every month, using only half the quantity 
after the first time. 3. Add a very small quantity of muriat'.' of 
ammonia, about 1 lb. for every 1,500 or 2,000 gals, of water evapo- 
rated. It will have the effect of softening and disintegrating the 
carbonate of lime and other imi)n.rlties deposited by the water dur- 
ing evaporation. 4. Potatoes and some othe* vegetable substances 
introduced into the boiler are most effectual in preventing incrus- 
tation, and animal substances such as refuse skins, are still more 
so. 5. An English firm put oak sawdust into their boiler in order 
to stop a leak, and to their surprise it also resulted in preventing 
incrustation. I should say if oak sawdust could prevent scale ia 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



191) 



F1 



boilers, that there is no visible reason why hemloclc and various 
other kinds of sawdust will not flo the same thing. 6. Cows feet 
with the shankg attached are strongly recommended as a pri'ven- 
tative of scale. Two in a large boiler ia amply sullicient, and those 
who wish »,o do business economically, can get their oil for lubri- 
cating purposes cheaply by boiling the feet and shanks for a few 
hours inr, lar^e kettle, setting it aside to cool and then skimming 
off the oil from the surface of the water, using the feet for the boiler 
afterwards. If you wish to get rid of the hair on the shanks, you 
can get rid of that by using lime, &c., as done by tanners. 

Management of the Steam Engine. — Steam Packing. — To pack 
the cylinder or piston, plait some packing yarn sufliciently tight that 
it will need driving ; if cotton rope is convenient, put in a coil first, 
ilriviug it to fit tight ; then fill the remainder of the chamber of the 
piston with the plaited yarn, driving it tight and full, leaving 
room for the nuts to go on the bolts ; screw the nuts evenly and 
alike until they are fast. The packing should be well soaked in 
bees wax and tallow before using it. A new kind of packing has 
been brought out lately, consisting of a mixture of duck, paper and 
tallow mixed in proper proportions. Metallic vulcanized rubber 
packing is strongly recommended as the best packing. This is so 
prepared that SOU ° Fahrenheit will not affect it. No other subs- 
tance has so much elasticity which stands so high a degree of heat, 
nr which may be used about all parts of the machinery, as this 
jtackiug, where packing is necessary, namely : cylinder heads, 
man hole plates, piston rods, steam chests, steam joints, stuffing 
boxes, &c. The joJirnals of the crank and the T head require close 
watching; if thev are loose in the boxes, or too tight, they will run 
badly: thus, if tightened too much, they will heat and wear out 
the brass runners, if they are not sufilciently tight, there is danger 
of the keys flying out and breaking the engine. All the valves 
belonging to tbeeng no should be ground in with ?mery, to keep 
them from losing either steam or water. Care should be taken 
of them as they will wear. When you find them leak, they should 
be ground over again. If sufFej?ed to remain long when leaking 
steam, there may be new ones required. 

The boilers require to be often cleaned out, and care should be 
taken to remove the scales and mud from adhering to the inside, 
otherwise, if the scales arc Buffered to remain, the boiler will burn 
and want repairing. It is necessary to try the gauge-cock often, 
to see if there is sufficient water in the boilers. There is great 
danger in running after the water is below the lowermost gauge- 
cool:, and the flues should be kept cleanly swept. 

To Mend Broken Saws. — Pure silver, 19 parts ; pure copper, 1 
part; pure brass, 2 parts; all to be filed into powder, and tho- 
roughly mixed ; place the saw level on the anvil, broken edges in 
contact, and hold them so ; now put a small line of the mixture 
along the seam, covering it with a larger bulk of powdered char- 
coal ; now with a spirit Tamp and a jewellers' blow-i)ipe, hold the 
coal (lust in place, and blow sufficient to melt the solder mixture ; 
then with a hammer set the joint smooth, and file away any su- 
perfluous solder, and you will be surprised at its strength the 
licat will not injure the temper of the ."aw. 



i 


1 


■\ . 




■A ] 








s 

^■1 


• 



; I-: 


;fS 


* f'r ■■ 


li 


ity 


,»■ 


^f ^ h 


■'-J 



fi. 



200 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0,, tlECEIl'TS. 



brick dust, 1 



WiuTiNO iNScnirTioNS ON Metals — Take i lb. of nitric acid and 
1 oz, of muriatic acid. Mix. shake well together, and it is ready 
for use. Cover the place you wish to mark with melted bees-wax- 
when cold, write your inscription plainly in the wax clear to the 
metal with a sharp instrument ; then apply the mixed acids with 
a feather, carefully filling each letter. Let it remain from 1 to 10 
minutes, according to appearance desired ; then throw on water, 
which stops the i)roce3s, and remove the wax. 

Etching Fluids. — For copfirr. Aquafortis, 2 oz. ; water, 5 oz. 
For steel. Iodine, 1 oz. ; iron filings, 5 dr. ; water, 4 oz. Digest till 
the iron is dissolved. For fine tuiiches. Dissolve 4 parts each of 
verdigris, sea salt, and sal-ammoniac, in 8 i)arts vinegar, add 16 
parts water ; boil for a minute, and let it cool. 

Enquaveus' noRDKR Wax. — Beeswax, I jiart; pitch, 2 parts; tal- 
low, 1 part. Mix. Enyravers' cement. Rosin, I part; 
part. Mix with lieat. 

Japanners' Gold Size. — Gum ammoniac, 1 lb. ; boiled oil, 8 oz.; 
spirits Uirpentine, 12 oz. Melt the gum, then add the oil, and lastly 
spirits turpentine. 

Black Vaunish for Iron Work. — Asphaltum, 1 lb. ; lamp- 
black, i lb. ; resin \ lb. ; spirits turpentine, 1 quart; linseed «il, just 
sufficient to rub up the lampblack with before mixing it with tiie 
others. Apply with a camel's hair brush. 

To Petrify Wood. — Gen salt, rock alum, white vinegar, chalk 
and pebbles powder, of each an equal quantity. Mix well together. 
If, after the ebullition is over, you throw "into this liquid any 
wood or porous substance, it will petrify it. 

The Finest Hronze. — Put in a clean crucible 7 lbs. copper, 
melt, then add 3 lbs. zinc, afterward 2 lbs tin. 

Gearing a Lathe fob Screw Cutting. — Every screw cutting 
lath^ contains along screw called the lead screw, which feeds the 
carriage of the lathe, while cutting screws ; upon the end of this 
screw is placed a gear, to whicli is transmitted motion from 
another gear placed on the end of llic spindle, these gears each 
contain a diflferent number of teeth, for the purpose of cutting 
different threads, and the threads are cut a certain number to the 
inch varying from 1 to 50. Therefore to find the proper gears to 
cut a certain number of threads to the inch, you will first:— 
multiply the number of threads you desire to cut to the inch, by 
any small number, four for insta:4cc, and this will give you the 
proper gear to put on the lead screw. Then with the same num- 
ber, four, multiply the number of threads to the inch in the lead 
screw, and this will give you the proper gear to put on the 
si)indle. For example, if you want to cut 12 to the inch, multiply 
12 by 4, and it will give you 48. Put this gear on the lead sonnv, 
then with the same number, 4. multiply the number of threads to 
the inch in the lead screw. If it is five for instance, it will give 
you twenty, put this on the spindle and your lathe is geared. If 
the lead screw is 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8, the same rule holds good. Always 
multiply the number of threads to be cut, first. Some, indeed most 
small lathes, are now made with a stud geared into the spindle, 
which stud only runs half as fast as the spindle, and in finding 
the gears for these lathes, you will first multiply the number of 



Machinists, engin. iiRs, &c., receipts. 



liOl 



i- ' 



threads to be cut, as before, and then multiply the number of 
threads on tti;' lead screw, as double the number it is. Foi' instance 
if you want to cut 10 to the inchj multiply by 4, and you get 40, 
put this on the lead screw, then if vour lead screw is five to the 
inch, you call it 10 ; and multiply by 4 and it will give you 40. 
Again put this on your stud and your lathe is geared ready to 
commenre cutting. 

CuTTiNO A ScHEW IN AN Enoinb Lathk. — In cutting V thread- 
screw, it is oulv necessary for you to practice operating the 
shipper and slide-screw handle of your lathe, before cutting. 
After having done this, until you get the motions, you may set the 
point of the tool as high as the centre, and if you keep the tool 
sharp, you will find no difficulty in cutting screws. You must, 
however, cut very light chips, mere scrapings in finishing and 
must take it out of the lathe often, and look at it from both sides, 
very carefully, to see that the threads do not lean like fish scales. 
After cutting, polish with an emery stick, and some emery. 

Cdtting Square Thread Screws. — In cutting square thread- 
screws, it is always necessary to get the depth required, with a 
tool somewhat thinner than one-half the pitch of the thread. 
After doing this, make another tool exactly one-half the pitch of 
the thread, and use it to finish with, cutting a light chip on each 
side of the groove. After doing this, polish with a pine stick, 
and some emery. Square threads for strength should be cut one- 
half the depth of their pitch, while square threads, for wear, may, 
and should be cut three-fourths the depth of their pitch. 

Mongrel Threads. — Mongrel, or half V, half-square threads are 
usually made for gieat wear, and should be cut the depth of their 
pitch, and for extraordinary wear they may even be cut IJ the 
depth of their pitch. The point and the bottom of the grooves 
should be in wid«.h { the depth of their pitch. What is meant 
here by the point of the thread, is the outside surface. And the 
bottom of the groove is the groove between the tb'^eads. In 
cutting these threads it is necessary to use a tool about the shape 
of the thread, and in thickness about one-fifth less than the 
thread is when finished. As it is impossible to cut the whole stir- 
face at once, you will cut it in depth about one-sixteenth at a 
time, then a chip off the sides of the thread and continue in this 
way alternately till you have arrived at the depth required. Make 
a gauge of the size required between the threads and finish by 
scraping with water. It is usually best to leave such screws as 
these a little large until after they are cut, and then turn off a 
light chip, to size them, this leaves them true and nice. 

Planing Metals. — The first operation about planing, is to oil 
your planer and find out if the bed is smooth. If it is not, file off 
the rough places ; then change the dogs to see if they will work 
well, and find out the movements of the planer. After doing this, 
bolt your work on to the bed, and if it is a long, thin piece, plane 
off a chip, then turn it over and finish the other side, taking two 
chips, the last of which should be very light. Great care should 
be taken, in bolting it to the bed, not to spring it. After finishing 
this side turn it to the other side, and take off a light cut to 
finish it. 



fen 



, i 



',|-''. i 



i' t 




I^O:i MACIIINlSTrf, KNUINEEkS^ &C., RECEIl'Tb. 



Planing PEUPENniciii-AULY.— In planing perpendicularly, It ig 
necessary to swivel the bottom of the small head aiound, so it will ' 
stand about tliree-f'ourtli.s of an inch inside of Sfitiare, towards the 
piece you are to plane. This prevents breaking the tool when tlie 
bed runs back. 

Geau CirTTiNO.— In cutting gears, they are reckoned a certain 
number of teeth to the inch, measuring across the diameter to a 
ciTtain line which is marked on the face or sides of the gear with 
a tool. This line is one-half the depth of the teeth from the outer 
diiimoter. That is, if the teeth of the gear are two-tentlw of au 
inch deep, this line would be one-tenth of an inch from the edge 
and is called the pitch line. 

Depth of Teeth.— Every gear cut with a diflTerent number of 
teeth to the inch, should bo cut of a depth to the pitch line, to 
correspond with the number of teeth to the inch. This is called 
proportion. Therefore, if you cut a gear eight to the inch, ths 
de[)th to the pitch line should be one-eighth of an inch, and the 
wIkjIc dept4i of the tooth would be two-eighths. Again, if you cut 
a gear twelve to the inch, the depth to jutch line should be ooe- 
t\/eUth of an inch, and the whole depth of tooth two twelfths. 
And again, if you cut a gear twenty to the in«h, the depth to pitch 
lino should be one-twentieth of an inch, while the whole depth 
should be two-twentieths, and so on ad infinitum. 

.Mkasurinq to find the Number of Teeth, — To find the size a 
certain gear should be, for a certain number of teeth, is an caay 
matter, if you study carefully these rules. If you want a gear 
with thirty-two teeth and eight to the inch, it should be ft)ur inches 
measuring across the diameter to the pitch line, and the two- 
eighths outside of the pitch line would make it four inches and 
two-eighths. Again, if you want a gear with forty teeth, and ten 
to the inch, it should measure across the diameter to pitch line 
ft)ur inches, and the two-tenths outside the pitch line would mate 
the whole diameter four inches and two-tentlis. And again, if you 
;:vant a gear with eighty teeth, and twenty to the inch, it should 
measure to the pitch line, across the diameter, four inches, and the 
two-twentieths outside the pitch line would make it four inches 
and two-twentieths, and these examples will form a rule for the 
measurement of all except bevel gears. 

Hevel Gears. — These are turned a certain bevel to correspond 
with each other, according to the angle upon which the sliiifts 
driven by them are set. For instance, if two shafts are set upoa 
an angle of ninety degrees, the surfaces of the faces of these gears 
will stand at an angle of forty-five degrees. To get the surface of 
these gears, in turning them, puts a straight edge across the face. 
Then set your level on an angle of forty-five degrees, and try the 
face of the teeth by placing the level on the straight edge. After 
turning the face of the teeth, square tlie outer diameter by the face 
of the teeth ; and to get the size to which you wish to cut, measure 
from the centre of the face of the teeth. Thus, if a bevel gear is 
six inches in diameter, and the face of the teeth is one inch, you 
will measure from the centre of the face, and find it is five inches. 
On this line you calculate the number of teeth to the inch, and if 
you want a gear with twenty teeth, and ten to the inch, it should 



MAOlllMriTS, ENUIiNEEUS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



203 



niiMP'iro two inches nrro"? the faco to tlio ccntro of tlio surfixcc of 
the ietih; nn<l if the face of tho teeth were one ineh in length, 'the 
(ImnictcT of tlie gear would be three inclies, and the inside of the 
tfi'tli would measure only one inch. A(?ain, if you want to cut a 
gciir with forty teeth, and ten to the inch, it would measure four 
inciii'.'i to the centre of the teeth on the surface. And if the surface 
ol tlie teeth were one inch long, the diameter of the gear would be 
tivc inch's, wiiile it would only measure three inches inside the 
tcoth Those exanii»les will form a rule for all bevel gears. 

DiiAW-Fii.iNo ANo FiNisniNO — To draw-file a piece of work 
snioottily and quickly, it is best to hrst draw-file it with a medium 
tine tile, and finish wuh a superfine file. After doing this, polish 
the work wuh dry cnierj paper and then with emery paper and 
oil. 

LixiNO Do.xns with Bahqitt Metal,— To line boxes properly, 
doas to iiisitre their filling every time, it is necessary to heat the 
box nearly red hot. or at least hot enough to melt the metal. Then 
smoke the shaft where the metal is to bo poured upon it. This 
insiii'os its coming out ot the box easilj, after it is cold. After 
smoking tdo shaft, put it into the box or boxes, and draw some 
piitly around the ends of them, for the purpose of stopping them, 
taking care not to press upon it, for if you do it will go into the 
box and fill a place that ought to be filled with metal; and in the 
menntime your metal ought to be healed, and after you have 
jioiucd it, let the box Stand till it is nearly cold ; drive out your 
shaft, and it is done. 

Pi'TTiNo Machines Toorther.— In putting machines together no 
part should be finished except where it is necessary to make a fit, 
US It issonietimcg the case that machinery is miscalculated, and by 
jinisliing it would be spoiled, while if it were not, it might be saved 
by slignt alterations in design. And again, in finishing certain 
parts before you get a machine together, you are unknowingly 
finishing jiarls not necessary to be finished, and making them of a 
shape anything but desirable. This rule, however, is not intended 
to apply to machinery being made to detail drawings. 

To DifILL A IloiiB WIIEHB YOU HAVE NO RbAMER. — It IS SOmC- 

timcs necessary to drill a hole of an exact size to fit a certain shaft, 
and at the same time have it smooth without reaming it. This 
may be done, by first drilling a hole, one-hundredth of an inch 
fimallor than the size desired, and then making a drill the exact 
size and running it through to finish with. This last drill should 
have the corners of its lips rounded, like a reamer, and the hole 
should be finished without holding the drill with a rest. 

Squarino, oil FACING UP Cast Iron SURFACES. — A fOund-cnd, 
tool is best for this. A rough chip should first be taken off, over 
the entire surface to be faced. Then speed your lathe up and 
taking a light chip, merely enough to take out the first tool marks, 
run over the entire surface again. In turning up surfaces it is 
always best to begin at the centre and feed out, as the tool cuts 
freer and will wear twice as long, 

BoRiNo A Hole with a I'orino Tool. — In boring a hole with a 
boring tool, it is usually necessary to drill the hole first, and too 
Djucli care cannot be taken in finishing. An iron gauge should be 



1^ 



\ i- ' I 





204 



MACHINISTS. ENGINEER S. AC, RECEIPT!^. 



)ii!)(ln liivt; it H iisiiiilly lUfulo of a piece of shod iron Dr wire. 
'J'lio Jiulo should llicii 1)0- drilled siiiiilier tlmti tlie .size desired, miil 
then bored 1o the re(|iired size, and it is impossiblo to bore a hole 
jiei'lecL without takin<^ Iwo or three light chips, mere scr.'ipingj 
with which to ihihih. Jlolca, in this way may bo bored aa uicely 
as they can be rcnmed. 

IJoiiixa lIoLE.s WITH IJouiNO AifDOH. — A boriiig arl)or la a shaft 
with a steel set i-ii it, for the; pur[)03o of boring holes of great 
length, and is designed to be nsed in a lathe, lu doing thid pro- 
jierly, yon must lirst see k' yonr lathe m set stfraight ; 11" not, adjust 
U. Having done this, piut the piece of work to be bored in ilie 
carriage of yonr lailie, i)as3 yonr arbor tiirongh Ihe liole to bo 
bored, and put it on the centres of your latho. Having dune iliia, 
adjust your work true to the position desired by measin-ing fijm 
ihi! point of the tool, continually turning round the arlj.)r tnim 
fciide to side of the piece to be bored, while you are bolting k to 
the carriage, and measure until it is perfectly true. Having done 
this, bore the li»le, and take for tlie last chip o'lly a huudredlh of 
an inch. This makes a true and smooth hole. It is inipossrlilc to 
make a hole true with any kind of a tool when yon are cutting n 
large chhp, for the tool springs so that no dependence mm bo 
l)l!iced upon ir. 

'I'o Mmk a Uorino Aubor and Tool that will not Chatter.— 
Boring tools, when used in small adnrs, are always liable to ehat- 
ler and make a rough hole. To prevent this, the tool should bo 
turned in a lathe, while in its position in the arbor, upon the circle 
of the size oi' the hole to be bored, and the bearing lengthwise of 
the arb'jr, should be only as wide as the feed of the lathe; for if 
the boi.ring of a tocTl is on the face, the more it wiil shatter. 
To UGDueK Metallic Oxides. — This may bo effected by tkc dry 
and the moist processes ; but the deoxidizing agent of the greatest 
value to the metallurgist is coal in its several varieties, and the 
derivative materials yielded by its combustion. Wlicn coal is 
burned in a furnace, llio product of combustion may be considered 
to be carbonic acid gas ; but inasmuch as the latter is readily 
decomposed by permeating ignited pieces of solid carbon (coke), 
losing a jiortion of its oxygen, and becoming carbonic acid gas, 
we may say that the products of the combustion of coal are, iirjtly. 
carbonic acid ; secondly, carbonic oxide and carbonic acid; and 
lastly, carbonic oxide alone. The later, in combination witli he.it, 
i3amostpovcrful deoxidizing agent. Whore it not for the production 
in furnaces of carbonic oxide gas — were it necessary that the solid 
carbon of the coke should be alone the deoxidizing body — thou 
it follows that every particle of the ore to bo reduced must be 
brought into intimate contact with the redi»cing body: a process 
involving more care and trouble than arc c mpatible with large 
metallurglc operations. The reducing agent being a gas, there is 
no longer a necessity for that intimate mixture of fuel and ore 
which would otherwise bo necessary. Provided that the gaseous 
results of combustion are placed under circumstances of readily 
permeating the ore, the necessities of practice are amply subserved. 
There i.s great difference as to the amount of heat at which the 
reduvlion yf different metallic oxides can be effected. The oxides of 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C.^ RECEIPTS. 



205 



I'/T win-. 
[■^'"^''I, ari(] 
[«i"o a liolo 
J Hcrapiiigi 
¥ 'W Uicoly 

I '3 a shaft 

<f groat 

tills pro- 

M'>f, adjust 

'''•*1 ill tlie 

fiol*' to 1)0 

•I'lno iliig^ 

|"'i'ifrtV«n 
|irlj.)r (roni 
I'iiiK itfo 
Iviiigdoiio 
jiKlri'iIlhof 
|l)o.s,sfl)le to 
Y eliding (I 
let! mill Ijo 

hattrr.— 

Jltilocliat- 

should Ijo 

tlio circle 

ffthnlseof 

I'lo; for if 

It tor. 

'">y the dry 
lie grcatost 
'3, ami the 
-n coal is 
considered 
is readily 
3u (coke), 
ftcid gas, 
■re, firstly, 
acid; and 
witli licit, 
rodiictioii 
t the S(jlid 
)dy— iheu 
must be 
n process 
itli largo 
!, there 13 
and ore 
gaseous 
f readily 
ibscrvod. 
liicli the 
L>xidos uf 



(I'iid, bismuth, antimony, nickel, cobalt, copper, and iron rcfiniro 
iistruiif,' red heat in tliu furnace, whilst the oxides of manganese, 
clironsiim, tin, and zinc, do not lose their oxygen until he.ited to 
wliiteness. 

Oil a large scale, the reduction of oxides is generally efTected by 
mixing charcoal, t«)gether with the oxide to be reduced, in a refrac- 
tory clay crucible, llio charcoal furnishing the carbon necessary 
to the })n)i)or performance of this wf rk. H<mio use a crucible 
thickly lined with charcoal, putting in the oxido on the top of the 
cliarcual. It is necessary, however, when using the crucible and 
charcoal, to use a liux, say a little borax in powder, strewtd on 
the mixture to accelerate the reduction of the oxide. The borax is 
generally the first t») fuse, and, as the metul is eliminated, seems 
to purify and cleanse it. as it gathers into a button at the bottom 
of the cnicii>le. It is all the better if you give the crucible a few 
sharp taji.s when you take it oil the lire. 

Coi'i'Kii 1'latk.s ok Roiks may be covered with a superficial coat- 
ing of l>rass by exposing to the /?/»»«» given off by melted zinc at 
fi light temperature. The coated plates or rods can then be rolled- 
into thin sheets, or drawn into wire. 

yoLUTioN OS- Coi'PER OR ZiNC. — Di88olve 8 oz. (troy) cyanide of 
potassium, and 3 oz. cyanide of copper or zinc, in 1 gal. of rain 
water. To be used at about 160" F., with a compound battery of 
3 to 12 cells. 

Bkass Solution. — Dissolve 1 lb. (troy) cyanide of potassium, 2 
oz. cyanide of co[)per, and 1 oz. cyanide of zinc, in 1 gal. of rain- 
water; then add 2 oz. of muriate of ammonia. To be used at IGO® 
F., for amooth work, with a compound battery of from 3 to 12 
cells. 

BuASsiNO Iron. — Iron ornaments are covered with copper or 
brass, by properly preparing the surface so as to remove all 
organic matter which would prevent adhesion, and then plunging 
them into melted brass. A thin coating is thus spread over the 
iron, and it admits of being polished or burnished. 

To Enamel Cast Ieon ahd Hollow Ware. — 1. Calcined flints, 
6 parts ; Cornish stone or composition, two parts ; litharge, 9 parts ; 
borax, 6 part« ; argillaceous earth, 1 part • nitre, 1 part ; calx of 
tin, G parts ; purified potash, 1 part. 2. Calcined flints, 8 parts ; 
red lead, 8 parts ; borax, 6 parts; calx of tin, 5 parts ; nitre, 1 part. 
3. Potters' composition, 12 parts; borax, 8 parts; white lead, 10 
parts; nitre, 2 parts; white marble, calcined, 1 part; purified 
potash, 2 parts ; calx of tin, 5 parts. 4. Calcined flints, 4 parts ; 
potters' composition, 1 part ; nitre, 2 parts ; borax, 8 parts ; white 
marble, calcined, 1 part; argillaceous earth, ^ part; calx of tin, 
2 parts. Whichever of tJie above compositions is taken must be 
finely powdered, mixed, and fused. The vitreous mass is to be 
ground when cold, sifted, and levigated with water; it is then 
made into a pap with water, or gum water. The pap is smeared 
or brushed over the interior of the vessel, dried, and fused with a 
proper heat in a muflle. Clean the vessels perfectly before apply- 

inrr. 

Enamelled Cast Iuon. - Clean and brighten the iron before 
applying. Tlie enamel con ^i.sts of tAvo coats— the bou^ and t}>-» 



! ■ 
I 





• t,!)l 



' 



206 MACHINISTS, ENOlNEFHSj &0., RECEIPTS. 

glaze. Tho body is mndc by fusing 100 lbs. ground flints, 75 Ijjg 
of borax, and grinding 40 lbs. of this frit M'ith 5 lbs. of potters' 
clay, in water, till it is brought to the consistence of a pap. A coat 
•f this being applied and dried, but not hard, the glaze-powder is 
sifted over it. This consists of 100 lb.s. Cornish stone in line pow- 
der, 117 lbs. of borax, 35 lbs. of soda ash, 35 lbs. of nitre, 35 lbs. 
of sifted slaked lime, 13 lbs. of white sand, and 50 pounds of pounded 
white glass. These are all fused together; the frit obtained is 
pulverized. Of this powder, 45 lbs. are mixed with 1 lb. of soda 
ash, in hot water, and, the mixture being dried in a stove, is the 
glaze powder. After sifting this over ti.e body-coat, the cast-iron 
article is put into a stove, kept at a tr^niperature of about 212o 
to dry it bard, itter which it is set in .< mullle-kiln, to fuse it into 
a glaze. The inside of pipes is enamelled (after being cleaned) by 
pouring the above body composition through them while the pine 
is being turned around to insure an equal coating ; after the body 
lias become set^ 'he glaze pap is poured in iu like manner. The 
1 ipe is finally hfuu in the kiln. 

To Enamel Copper and Other Vessels. — Flint glass, G parts ; 
borax, 3 part£' ; red lead, 1 part; oxide of tin, 1 i)art. Mix all to-' 
gether, frit, grind into nowder, make into a thin paste with water, 
apply with a brush to tne surface of the vessels, after scaling by 
heat and cleaning them, repeat with a second or even a third coat, 
afterwards dry, and lastly fuse on by heat of an enamelled kiln. 

Emery Wheels for Polishing — Coarse emery powder is mixed 
withabout half its weight of pulverized Stourbridge loam, and a 
little water or other liquid to make a thick paste ; this is pressed 
into a metallic mould by means of a screw-press, and, after boing 
thoroughly dried, is baked or burned in a muffle at a tempcraturo 
above a red, and below a white heat. This forms an artificial 
emery stone, which cuts very greedily, with very little wear to 
itself. Unequalled for grinding and polishing glass, metals, 
enamels, stones, Ac. 

Holes IN Millstones are filled with melted nlnm, mixing burr 
sand with it. Jf the hole is large, put some pieces of burr mill 
stones in it first, and pour in melted alum. These pieces of block 
should be cut exactly to lit. There should be small joints, and 
fastened with plaster ot Paris. These holes should be cut at least 
4 inches deep ; there is then no danger of their getting loose, 

Fitting a New Back on an Old Millsxonk. — Block your stone 
up with a block of wood, having its face down until it lies even, 
solid, and perfectly level ; then pick and scrape off all the old 
plaster down to the face blocks, so that none remains but what i.^ in 
the joints of tho face blocks; then wash these blocks, and keep 
them soaked with water. Keep a number of pieces of burr blocks, 
at the same time, soaked with water. Take a pail half filled with 
clean water, and mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of glue water, boiled 
and dissolved ; mix in with your hand plaster of Paris until it be 
thick enough that it will not run ; and, breaking all the lumjjs, 
our this on iho stone, rubbing it in with your hand ; the slono 
eing at the same time damped ; and place small pieces of stono 
all over the joints of the face blocks ; you then, witli more plaster, 
mixed in the same way but more stiff, wKh this and pieces of burr 



I 



ilACUINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



207 



Stones, build walls round the eye and verge 4 or 5 inches hieh 
leaving the surface uneven and the eye larger, as it will be brougnt 
to its i>roper size by the last operation. It is better to build up 
the wall of the running stone round the verge for 3 inches without 
any spalls, so that the holes may be cut in to balance it. If 
you wish to make your stone heavier, you will take small pieces of 
iron perfectly clean and free from grease, and lay them evenly all 
around ihc stone in the hollow i)lace between tiie two walls just 
built ; and, with plaster mixed a little thicker than milk, pour ia 
under and through all the crevices in the iron until the surface is 
nearly level with the two walls , If the stones do not require addi- 
tional weight added, instead of iron, use pieces of stone the samo 
way, leaving the surface rough and uneven. Again, as before, 
build walls round the verge of the stone, and round the eye of tho 
stone, until they are within 2 inches of the thickness you wantyour 
stones to be, the wall round the eye being 2 inches higher than 
that round the verge, nnd filling the space between the walls with 
Btoucs; and, pouring in plaster again, make it nearly level with 
the Willis, but leaving the surface rough and jagged, to make the 
next plaster adhere well to it. Let it stand until the back is dry, 
and perfectly set, when you raise the stone upon its edge, ana, 
with u trowel, plaster round the edge of the stone neatly, giving it 
A taper of half an inch from the face to the back of the gtono. 
Wlicu cased round in this way, lay the stone down on tho cock- 
head ; it being in the balance ryne, but the driver off, then raisa 
the spindle, and balance the stone as already directed beforo 
putting on llie remainder of the back. Then have a tin made tho 
BJse ot the eye, and to reach from the balance ryne to the thickness 
you want the stone to be at the eye. This tin shoulcJbo. exactly, 
titted to its jdace, and made fast ; then fit a hoop of wood or iroa 
round the verge, having the upi)er edge of the thickness from tho 
face you want the stone to be at the verge, and equal all round. 
Tills hoop should be greased ; and, all the cracks round it, and tho 
tin in the eye, being stopped, you pour thin plaster (with more gluo 
water than in previous oi)eration3, to prevent it from setting so 
quickly, and to give time to finish off the back correctly) until it 
be level with the hoop round the verge, and with a straight edofe, 
one end resting on the hoop, and the other end resting on the tin 
at tho eye ; then, by moving it round, and working tho plaster 
witii a trowel, make the surface of the back even and smooth 
bet'v<,;en these two points. The hoop is then taken off, and the back 
and edges planed smooth ; then lower the spindle until your 
runner lies solid, and put your band or hoop on, it being first made 
nearly red hot, and taking care that it is of sufficient size not to 
require too much driving ; if fitting too tightly, it may loosen tho 
back in driving it to its proper place ; it may bo cooled gently by 
po\iriiig water on it ; und, when cool, it should fit tight. 

Balancing a Millstoni;. — First, take off the driver, that the 
stone may have full play on the cock- head ; then raise the ppindlo 
?n that there may be room between the stones to see tho balance. 
Kind the hcRviest parts, and near the verge hiy on sufficient weig^^t 
to balance it. Cut a hole in the back of the stone, as deep as yoa 
lau make it and as near the verjjce us possible tuattho bJoicling 




il 






208 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEU'TS, 



iron lioop of the stone may keep the lead; in its place. Thia 
hole should be wider at the bottom than the top in order to retain 
the lead when the stone is in motion, and into this the melted lead 
should be poured until it brings the stone completely into balance, 
When the lead is cold, cover over with mixed plaster, oven with 
the l)ack of the stone. 

Composition to Keep Millstonrs Clean. — Hot-water, 1 gal.' 
borax, 2 oz. ; washing soda, i lb. and 3 balls of the size of a hazel 
nut each of sal prunel. Mix and apply it to the l)urr3 with a 
scrubbing brush. When grinding garlic wheat it is not necessary 
to take up the burrs at all. It is suflicient to droj) through tbp 
eye of the burr twice per day one of the above described halls of 
sal i-runel and that will keep the burrs siiarp and clean, enabling 
the miller at all seasons to use the No. 13 bolt, to make finer K^ur 
and in greater quantity than usual. 

To Vllcanize India IIubukr. — The vulcanizing process pf^tented 
by the late Charles Goodyear'consists in incorporating with the 
rubber from 3 to 10 per cent of sulphur, together with various me- 
tallic oxides, chiclly lead and zinc, the (juantity of the latter 
articles being regulated by the degree of elasticity &c., re(iuireil in 
the desired article. The goods of one large establishment are vul- 
canizcd in cylindrical wrought iron steam heaters, over 50 feet long 
and from 5 to Ofeet in diameter. These iieaters have doors openinj,' 
on hinges at one end, and through these doors the goods to he vulca- 
nized are introduced on a sort of railway carriage, then, after the 
door is shut, steam is let on, and a tenii)erature of from 2i't^^ to 
300 ° of heat is kept up for several liours, the degree of heat l)fing 
ascertained by means of thermometers attached to the heaters. 
The value, solidity, and quality of the goods is much increased by 
keeping the articles under the pressure of metallic moulds or 
sheets while undergoing this j)rocess. The whole process rcnuires 
careful manipulation and great experience to conduct it properly. 

To Deodorize Rubbeir. — Cover the articles of rubber with char- 
coal dust, place then in an onclosei' vessel, and raise the teinjiera. 
turo to 04® Fahr., and let it remain thus for several hours. Remove 
and clean the article from the charcoal dust, and they will be 
found free from all odor. 

.Approved Friction Matches. — About the best known prepara- 
tion for friction matches consistj of }^m arable, K! narts by weight; 
phosphorus, 9 parts ; nitre, It parts ; peroxyd or manganese, in 
powder, 16 parts. The gum is first made into a mucilage with 
water, then the manganese, then the |»hosphorus, and the whole is 
heated to about 130 degr. Fah, When the phosphorus is melted 
the nitre is added, and the whole is thoroughly stirred until the 
mass is a uniform paste. The wooden matches j)repared first with 
sulphur, are then dipped in this and afterward dried in the air. 
Friction papers, for carrying in the pocket, may be mf.do in the 
same manner, and by adding some gum benzoin to the mucilage 
they will have an agreeable odor when ignited. 

MILL Dams. — When building a dam, you siiould select the most 
suitable place. If you can, place it across the slrcr.m i-ear a rocky 
bluff, so that the ends of tfio dam may run into thf. blull'. This 
will prevent the water running by ut the ends of tbo dam. lUiild 



/^ 



.^•iHce. This 
I'" \o retain 
melted lead 
I" to balance. 
^» ^ven with 

M'TS Willi a 
Jot necessary 
Itlir.jugh tLp 
J''^^(I Iwllsof 
|in, enabling 
te finer fi^ur 

f.^ss jifilented 
|"'» witl] the 

Viirious me- 
•f tlio laiter 
, re(iiiire(l in 
it'nt are viil. 

^0 feet long 
oorsojieiiiiijT 
I tuheviilcii- 
'", uHer the 

t'iieat being 

tlie heaters. 

increasea by 

•iioiilds or 

cess rc(jiiires 

it projierly. 

' "'ith eliiir- 

ha ti'injieru. 

Jrs. lieiiiove 

lioy will be 

^n propara- 

'>.V Weijrbt; 

'if,'iines(', in 
nlaga with 
ho whole is 
» is melted 
1 until the 
1_ first with 
in the air. 
."^Jfi in the 
! mucilage 

t the most 
fir a rockv 
!ufi: This 
m. I'.ullil 



MACHINISTS. ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 209 

your (lam very strong: if tills is not done, thoj u.r jrcaking up 
often causing ruinous expense in money and loss oi lime. 

Rock Dams are incomparably the best in use, if there is plenty of 

niiiterial at hand for building, and a rock bottom to the stream ; if 

there is not a rock bottom, you should dig a trench in the bottom, 

deep enough, so that the water cannot undermine it. This should 

be the saiho as if you were building the foundation of a large 

building. The wall to be built should be of a small, circular form, 

so that the back of the circle should be next to the body ©f water, 

which may by its pressu'^e tighten it. To secure the \7atcr from 

teaking througl* at the ends of the dam, dig a ditch deeper than 

the bottom of the rivef ; then fill this with small pieces of rock, 

and pour in cement. This cement is made of hydraulic cement, 

ft'id is made of one part of cement to five parts of pure sand. It 

will eireetually stop all crevices. A rock dam, if well built, ^7ill 

be perfectly tight. Use as large rock as you conveniently can 

move ; building this wall 4 to 6 feet thick, according to the length 

ef the dam, with jam or buttresses every place whero they are 

needed to strengthen it. Make true joints to these rocks, cspttclally 

on the ends so that they may join close together. When you have 

the outside walls laid in cement, for every layer fill the middle up 

witi i)ieccs of small rock, pouring in your grout, so that there may 

not oe a crevice but what is filled. If there is any crevice or hole 

left open, the water will break through, wearing it larger and 

hu'^r. If the stream is wide and large, it is necessary to build 

the dam in two sections, which should be divided by a waste way, 

neres»;ary for the waste, or surplus water, to run over to keep the 

head in its proper place or he'f,ht. Let each section, next to where 

(he water is to be run over, be abutments, built to strengthen the 

dam. The last layer o£ rock, on the top where the waste water 

runs over, should project 5 or 6 inches over the back of the dam, 

.so that the water may not undermine it. This last layer should be 

of large rocks an<l jointed true ; then laid in hydraulic cement, in 

proportion of 1 of cement to 3 of sand. When the dam is built, 

the front should be filled up with coarse gravel or clay ; this is' 

best done with teajiis, as the more it is tramped the more durable 

it heeoiwos. 

Fkame-Dams. — In building a frame-dam commence with a good 
foundation, laying the first sills in the bottom, of sufficient depth. 
They should be large square timbers that will last in the water 
without rotting. Where there is a soft foundation, the bottom 
should first be made level ; then dig trenches for the mud sills, 
about 7 or 8 feet r.part, lengthways of the stream, and 10 or 12 feet 
long. Into those first sills other sills must be framed, and put 
crosswise of the stream, 6 or 8 feet apart, to roach as far ccross 
the streiun us necessary. Then two outside sills should be piled 
down with 2-inch plank drlvoii down to a dejjtli of 4 or 5 feet. If 
this can be done conveniently, they arc to be jointed as closeljr u.3 
p()ssii)Ie. It would be better to line with some stuff 1 inch thick ; 
then with ))()sts their proper length, about 12 or 14 inches square, 
wliicli should be framed into tlie uppermost sills, in both sides, and 
all the way ftGToss the dam, from bank to bank, at a distance of G 
feet apart. Wen, with braces to each post, to extend two-thirds 




'< 



.,i Ml 
' 'I-;: 











210 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C.^ RECEIPTB. 



m. 



\ 



of the length of the post, »vhere they should be joined together with 
a lock, instead . ,? z uiortiao and tenon, with an iron bolt of 1 or U 
inches in diiujpetcr, going through both, and tightened with a screw 
and nut. Whca mortises and tenons are used, thev often become 
rotten and useless in a Ie^7 yor,rs. These traces should be set at 
an angle of GO or GC with the other end mortised into the mud sill 
These braces require to be ''.bout 6 to 8 inches, and as lung as yoii 
find necessary; being covered with dirt, it will not decay for a 
long time, as the air is excludecl. These posts should be capoed 
from one to the other, plate fashion. The posts should be lined 
with 2 or 2i inch plank on the inside, pinned to the pluuk, aud 
should, in the ■niddle,''ic filled \v. with dirt. 

If tue stream is large and wide, the dam should be built in two 
sections, which should be divided by a waste-way for the surplua 
water, which should bo in the centre of the dam, and sufficient for 
uU the waste-water to am over. Let each section of the dam form 
an abutment next to the waste- way, placing cells or sills 4 fett 
apart tho length of the waste-way ; in each of these sills, posts 
should be framed, with a brace for the sides. These rows of posts 
standing across the dam, will form the sectiomil abutments ; tbe 
middle one may bo constructed by being lengthways of tiio stream 
with short braces, so that they will not be in the way of drift-wooii 
passing down the stream ; it being necessary for strong pieces tor 
a bridge. Then cover the sills with an apron of 2-inch plank 
joined perfectly straight, to extend 30 or 40 feet below the dam, to 
prevent undermining o^ the dam. The planks which are used for 
the purpose of lining the posts which form the abutments of each 
section of tho dam, and the ends of the waste-way, should be truly 

Sointed, so as to prevent any leakage. The dam being built, the 
irt should be filled in with teams, as the more it is trumped the 
better. Clay or coarse gravel is the best. Then place your gates 
on the upper side of the waste- way, the size that is necessary to a 
level witn low-watermark ; which gates are not to be raised, except 
in times of high water, as the proper height of the mill-pond sliould 
be regulated by boards placed over the gate for the desired head, 
as the water should bo allowed to pass at all times freely over 
them. To strengthen the dam, if you think necessary, 2-inch plaiik 
may be used in lining the front side of the dam, long enough to 
reach from the bottom of the stream (on an inclined plauo, and 
next to the body of water) to the top of the dam, and filled up 
nearly to the top of the dam with clay or gravel well trampled 
down. 

Brush or Loo Dams are very jften used in small, muddy streams. 
When the bottom of the stream is of a soft nature, take a iiat boat 
wlwre you want to fix your dam, and drive piles the whole length 
of the stream, about 3 or 4 feet apart, as deep as you can. Take 
young oak saplings, pointed at the end, for the purpose. If you 
can, construct a regular pile-driver, similar to those in use for 
making trestle-work on the railways. This weight mav be pulled 
up by horses instead of an engine. When you have finished driving 
piles, make some boxes or troughs of 2 or 3 inch plank, about 3 
feet wide and as long as the plank is. Sink these in tlie water, 
the length of the dam, close U) the pilea, by loading them Willi 



r* 

jgcthcrwith 
|lt of 1 or 1^ 

T'*h a screw 
Jton become 
l[d be set at 
Ihe mud sill 

■long as you 
Idt'cuy for a 

|1 be capped 

plu be lined 

plunk, and 

>iiilt in two 

tlie surplus 

MilHcient for 

p« dam form 

sills 4 feel 



e sills. 



imu 



^s of posts, 
fraonts; the 
f" tlie sircani, 
f drift-wood 
»g pieces for 
•"ch plank 
tlie dam, to 
are used for 
onts of each 
»»ld be truly 
ig hiiilt, the 
trumped the 
e your gates 
Jcessary to a 
aised, except 
[)ond should 
Bsired head, 
freely over 
!-inch jdank 
? t-nough to 
plane, and 
id filled up 
11 trampled 

dy streams. 

a fiat boat 
hole length 
Jan. Take 
'3C. If you 

in use for 
f be pulled 
led driving 
k, about 3 
tho water, 
tlicm >vim 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEERS, ftC„ RECEIPTS. 211 

rock, until thev are at the bottom of the stream, filling in the 
front part of the dam with dirt and brush, nearly to the height 
you want it, This kind of dam will last a long time. 

Whenever there is a small break in the dam or race, cut up some 
willows and brush, put them in the break along witn some straw 
and dirt, and ram them down with clay. 

In regard to the flume, the greatest care must be taken to insure 
strength and durability/j'combined with tightness. Every step 
taken in its construction must be of such a nature as to unite these 
qualities in the highest possible degree, otherwise the whole is, in 
a manner, labor lost. 

Cuba fob DarNKaNNKSH.— Take 5 grs sulphate of iron, 10 grs. 
magnesia, 11 drs. peppermint water, I dr spirit of nutmeg ; mix all 
■together, and take twice per day. 

To MAKE GcN Cotton.— Take dry saltpetre, i oz. ; strong oil 
ritriol, i oz Mix in a tumbler, add 20 grs. of dry cotton wool, 
gtii with a glass rod*!* minutes, remove the cotton and wash from 
all traces of the acid in 4 or 5 waters ; then carefully dry under 
<20'' This is gun cotton. 

Thb DnuMMOND Light is'produced by directing a jet of mixed 
wygen and hydrogen upon a pencil of pure lime, the gases being 
conveyed in separate tubes or pipes, to within a very short distance 
from the aperture at which they are to be delivered, and then flow- 
ing together and mixing in very minute quantity before combus- 
tion takes place This arrangement is adopted to ensure safety. 
The gases are used in the proportion of 2 of hydrogen to 1 of oxy- 
gen, which form a dreadfully explosive mixture. 

NiTRO Glvcerinb is made by submitting glycerine to the action 
of dtaiizture of 2 parts of sulphuric and 1 part of nitric acid. The 
use^pf the sulphuric acid being to concentrate the nitric acid, 
which IS alone concerned in the reaction. In the apparatus ordi- 
banly used, the glycerine and the acids are allowed to mix in the 
Btream, and are afterwards agitated for a short time in the recep- 
tacle into which they flow The nitro-glycerine is then allowed 
to settle at the bottom, the acids» are drawn off and after a single 
Washing with water the explosive is ready for use. 

The Great Secrets for Trappinq Foxbs and other Oamb. — 
Musk-rat musk and skunk musk mixed. Can be procured at the 
druggists, or from the animals themselves To be spread on the bait 
of any trap. This receipt has boon sold as high as $75. Another, 
costing $50, Jor mtnks, ^c. — Unslaked lime, i lb.; sal-ammoniac, 
3o2., or muriate of ammonia, 3 oz. Mix. and pulverize. Keep in 
a covered vessel a few days until a ttiorough admixvuro takes 
place Sprinkle on th^ oait, or on the ground around the trap. 
Keep in a corked bottle. 

Food for Sinqino Birds.— Blanched sweet almonds, pulverized, 
i lb. ; pea meal, 1 lb. ; saffron, 3 grs. ; yolks of 2 hard boiled eg^s. 
Reduce all to a powder by rubbing through a sieve. Place the mix- 
ture in a frying pan over a lire, and add 2 oz. butter and 2 oz. 
hnnny. Slightly cook for a few minutes, stirring well, then set oflf 
to rnol, and preserve in a closely corked bottle. 

PiioTooRAPn Painting in Oil Colors. — Tints for the First 
Pautinq.— Flbsu.— White and Light iicrf.— White, Naples yellow, 




}::1 



'I '' 



1 



i:. 



■p 



41; 



i^ 



213 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, *0., BE0EIPT8. 

and rermilioa. White, rennilion, and light red. Gray, Pearlg and 
Half Ttntt.— White, vermilion, and black. White and terre rerte. 
White, blaclc, Indian red, and raw umber. Deeo /SAae^g.—Light 
red and raw umber. Indian red, lake and black. CaYnaHoni.- 
White and Indian red (powerful color). White and rose madder 
White and lake. Hair.— //lyA/ Hair. — White and yellow ochre! 
White and Roman ochre. White and Vandyke brown for tlw 
dark parts. White and raw umber for the dark parts. Dark 
Brown Hair. — Raw and burnt umber. White ana raw tunber. 
White and Vandyke brown. Tints fob thk Skoond and Thud 
Pauit»o.— i/ii^A i^jrArt.-— White and Naples yellow. Cor. 
nott'oru.— Rose madder and white. Indian red, rose madder, uA 
white. Chreen T'tn^t.— White and ultramarine, with any of the jel- 
lows. White and terre verte, with the addition of a U%Ue nt 
umber. The above green tints may be converted into green gravs. 
Oray ^in^.— Ultramarine, light red, and white. Indian red,lake, 
blacK and white. White, ultramarine, Indian red, and raw umber, 
Purple Tints. — Any of the lakes or red madders, with ultramarine 
and white. Powerful Shadow Tints. — Indian red, purple lake, anil 
black. Indian red, raw umber, and black. Strong Glazing Colt. 
—Light red and lake. Brown madder. Vandyke brown, Indiau 
red, and lake asphaltum. Draperies. — Baoki Ground Colors,- 
JPearly. — White, vermilion and blue. White, vermilion and black. 
White and black. Grag. — White, Venetian red and black. Yellow, 
— yellow ochre and white. Olive. — Yellow ochre, terre verte, and 
umber. Stone. — Raw umber and yellow. Black, white, and raw 
umber. Sky. — French blue ana white. French blue, vermilion, and 
white. iEW;yM(j^C/ouda.— Yellow ochrt and white. Clov4a — Indian 
red. lake, and white. Brown madder, French blue, and wiiite. 

Photograph Water CoIiOrs.— Flesh Tints. — No. 1. Fair Com- 
flexion. — Light red, a little carmine or vci'tnilion, and Indian yel- 
low. Be careful in using the latter, and, in the flesh tints of verj 
(kir children^ allow the vermilion to predominfite ; carnations, ros: 
madder, and, if the face be full of color, add a little vermilion to 
it. 2. Akddling Complexion. — Much the same as No. 1, saving that 
the light red must be in excess over the other colors— carnations 
rose madaer^ and lake. 3. Dark Complexion,— Light reAeindlaim 
yellow, or lieht red and Roman ochre, and, if the complexio& be 
generally ruddv, you may add a littl(^ Indian red, but it must h'. 
sparingly used, as it is a powerful color, and likely to^impart a 
purple tone to the flesh. Cfaruations chiefly kke, but if the con 
plezion be warm, lake and a little yellow. The carnations for 
children's portraits are rose madder and vermilion, inclining more 
to the latter tint. Aged persons have rose madder, and s little 
cobalt to give a cold appearance to the color jn their cheeks and 
lips. These tints, Nos. 1, 2, and 3, are indispensable as general 
washes, for the purpose of receiving the other colors, which are 
to be worked over them to bring up the complexion to the life, 
ITncolored photographic portraits vary so much in tone, that (he 
beginner wul, pernaps, And some difficulty in mixing up the tints 
for the washes. He must note that the warm-toned oam do cot 
require so much Indian yellow as the cold ones do. 



MAOHINISTB, ENGINEERS, M., BECEIPTS. 213 

To IsocHRONisB A Penddldm Sprino.— A penuulum is isochronal 
ffhen its vibrations are performed '■^i equal times, whether the 
Tibrations be larpre or Braall. but it can only possess this property 
by being constrained to move id a cycloidal arc. This is managed 
by causing the spring to wrap and unwrap itself round two equal 
cycloidal cheeks, the diameter of whose generating circle is equal 
to half the length of the pendulum, Isochronism is closely- 
approximated in practice by causing the pendulum to describe n 
yery small circular arc. 

To Whiten Silver Watch Dials— Get a piece of cork, a jewel- 
ler's scrub brush, somA puttice powder, a small japanned sauce- 
pan, a spirit lamp, a piece of wire bent into a bow, and a little 
ritriol La^ the aiai )n the cork, wet the end of the brush, dip it 
in the puttice powder, and scrub the dial very clean ; then put 
tbout a cupful ot water in the paucepan, and enough vitriol to 
make it very tart ; make it hot, l^y the dial on the wire face np- 
wards, make it white hot over the spirit lamp, drop it flat into 
tbc vitriol and water, let it lay a few seconds, if it is at all stained 
put it in again for a short time ; if that does not take it out it 
must be scrubbed over again ; the most particular point is getting 
tbe dial to the right heat. 

To Construct an ^^JIolian Harp.— Make a box with the top, bot- 
tom, and sides of thin wood, and tbe ends 1^ inch beech, form it 
tbeoame lenp: h a? the width of the T'indow in which it is to be 
placed Tbe box should be 3 or 4 inches deep, and 6 or 7 inches 
wide. !n the lup of the box, which acts as a sounding board, 
snake ' circular holes about 2 inches in diameter, and an equal 
distance apart Glue across the sounding board, about 2^ inches 
fnm each end, 2 pieces of hard wood | inch thick, and^ inch 
hiffh, to serve as bridges. Tou must ntfw procure from any muti- 
cal instrument maker twelve steel pegs similar to those of a piano- 
forte, and 12 small brass pins Insert them in tbe following man- 
ner into the beech . first commence with a brass pin, then insert a 
steel peg, and so on, ,ilacing them alternatelv % in. apart, to the 
number of twelve Now for the other end, wnicn you must com- 
mence with a steel peg, exactly opposite the brass pin at the other 
end, then a brass pin, and so oni^alternately, to the number of 12 ; by 
this arrangement you have a steel peg and a brass pin always oppo- 
site each other, which is done so that the pressure of the strings on 
the instrument shall be uniform. Now string the instrument with 12 
first violin strings, making a loop at one end of each string, which 
put over the brass pins, and wind the other ends round the oppo- 
site steel pegs. Tune them in unison, but do not draw them tignt. 
To increase the current of air, a thin board may be placed about 
3 inches above tbe strings, supported at each end by 2 pieces of 
wood. Place tbe instrument in a partly opened window, and, to 
increase the draft, open the opposite door. 

To FoRGB A Twist Drill. — It is necessary to forge a flat blade 
•imilar to a fiat drill, and then twist this blade into the resem- 
blance required, then, with a light hammer and careful blows, ham- 
mer the twisted edges so that tney will be thicker than the central 
line of the tool. This will give greater strength and a better drill, 
And, to cut well, the central line or cutting point niust be made 



''■!.; II 





V 


\ 


i- 


i,v 


^ 


' \ 


t 

!.■; 



Itl 



■i \ 



[ 


1- ^ 


i 


'•[ 




i 

J,. 



214 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



quiie thin. Be careful to ^ot thb same twist at the point of tlie drill 
as upon the body of the rlrill. Thf inexperienced otteu leave tho 
point straight, with no twist, like flat drill. 

Moulding Sand for Casting B«ass or Iron. — The various kind* 
of good moulding sand employed m foundries for casting iron or 
. brass, have been found to be of almost uniform chemical composi. 
tion, varying in grain, or the aggregate form only. It contains be> 
tween 93 and 96 parts silex, or grains of sand, and from 36 to (i 
parts clay, and a little oxide of iron, in each 100 parts. Mouldinjf 
sand, which contains lime, magnesia, and other oxides of metal is 
not applicable, pi,rticularly for the casting of iron or brass. Such 
sand IS either too close, will not stand or retain its form, or it will 
cause the metal to boil through its closeness. 

Refining Fluxes, for Metals. — Deflagrate, and afterwards pul. 
verize, 2 parts of nitre and 1 part of tartar. The following fluxej 
answer very well, provided the ores be litprived of all their sul- 
phur, or if they contain much earthy matter, because, in the latter 



case, they unite with them, and convert them into a thin glass, 
but, if any quantity of sulphur remains, .heir fluxes unite with i^ 
and form a liver of sulphur, which has the power of destroying 



portion of all the metals, consequently the assay must be', under 
such circumstances, very inaccurate. Tiimestone, feldspar, fluor- 
spar, quartz, sand-slate, and slags, are all used as fluxes. Iron 
ores, on account of the argillaceous earth they contain, require 
calcareous additions ; and the copper ores, father slags, or nitres- 
cent stones, than calcareous earth. 

Burning Iron Castings tooethkr. — The nsual mode is by imbed. 
ding the castings in the sand, having a little space left vacant 
round about the joint where it is to be burned. Two gates must 
then be provided, one l^^g on a level with the lower side of tbi» 
space, and the otner raised so that the metal, which must be very 
hot, is poured in at the higher one ; it passes round, Alls up tk 
space, and runs off at the lower gate. A constant supply of metal 
is thus kept up, till the parts of tlie casting are supposea to be on 
the eve of melting. The lower gate is then closed, and the supply 
stopped. When cool, and the superfluous metal chipped off, it 
forms as strong a joint as if it had been original. 

Pot Metal.— Copper, 40 lbs. ; lead, 16 lbs. ; tin, 1} lbs. 

To Bend Glass Tube8.— Hold the tube in the upper part of the 
flame of a spirit-lamp, revolving it slowly between the lingers; 
when red hot it may be easily bent into any desired shape. To 
soften large tubes a lamp with a double current of air should bo 
used, as it gives a much stronger heat than the simple lamp. 

To Lessen Noise in Workshops. — Place a piece of India-rubber 
under the feet of the machines or benches on which the machinei 
are placed. 

To Solder Tortoise Shell. — Bring the edges of the pieces ol 
shell to (it each other, observing to give the same inclination ol 

frain to each^ then secure them in a piece of paper, and place them 
etween hot irons or pincers ; apply pressure, ana let them cool. 
The heat must not be so great as to burn the shell, therefore ti'v it 
first on a white oicce of paper. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



21! 



To MAKR Linseed and Cotton bred oils. — In making linsood oil 
nuito a variety of machinery is used, more or loss expensive accord- 
ing to tbo entcrprizo aad capital of the manufacturer. The seed is 
first passed through iron rollers, to be crushed '^'" ground, one of 
the rollers is made to revolve more rapidly that the other, which 
gubjocts each seed to a pulling as well as to a crustting process. The 
meal is taken from tho mill to the • chasers,' when it is subjected to 
another crushing process, more sevoro than the first. The chasers 
Are 2 largo circular stones about five feet diameter, and 18 inches 
thick, rolling upon a third stone in the manner of an old-fashioned 
bark or cider mill. Those heavy stones start the oil from the seed, 
and to keep it from adhering to the chasers it is moistened with 
water. Tho meal is next put into an iron cylinder, which is kept 
revolving over a fire until tho water is evaporated. Muohofthe 
skill of making oil depends upon this heating process. It must not 
be scorched, and yet it must bo brought up to a high temperature, so 
that it will readily give out its oil. The presses are of various 
structure, some of thcin are patented, and others not open to publio 
inspection. In one, tho vats or hoops holding about 2 bushels each, 
wore placed o})posito each other against two immense beams or 
uprights, made fast in the foundations of the building. The 
followers were forced down upon the meal bj' 2 large levers worked 
by hydraulic powers. Tho meal is kept under pressure about an 
hour, and tho two presses work up about 92 bushels of seed every 
24 hours, tho mill being kept running night and day. The product 
is not far from 2 gals, of oil from a bushel of seed, a little more or 
loss, according to tho quality of tho seed and the skill in pressing. 
The cakes, as taken from "tho press, are generally sold by the ton- 
without grinding, and aro generally exported in this form, but when 
there is a market in the vicinity of tho mill, the cakes are put under 
thn chasers, ground into meal, bagged and sent to the feed stores. 
Tho price of the cako is from $30 to $40 per ton ; ground into meal it 
retails at about $2 per 100 lbs. Tho process of making the cotton 
seed oil and cake is nearly the samo. The seed of the upland cotton 
is surrounded with a husk, to which the cotton adheres. It is 
sarronndod with a soft down after it loaves tho gin, and in this 
condition it is purchased from tho planter. Tho seed makes better 
oil and better meal when it is deprived of this hull and down. The 
yield of oil is about 90 gallons per 100 bushels of the Sea Island, or 
2 gals, to 56 lbs. of the hulled cotton seed. 

Black Dip for Brass. — Ilydrochlorio acid (commonly called 
smoking salts), 12 lb., sulphate of iron T lb., and pure white arsenic 
1 lb. This dip is used in all the large factories in Birmingham, but 
the dip used in the London trade is 2 oz. of corrosive sublimate, in 
1 pt. of tho best vinegar, cork both air tight in a bottle, let it stand 
24 hours, then it is fit for use. 

To PiK-cnvi-R IIammkrsin Pianos. — Got felt of graduated thickness, 

out it in strips the exact width, touch only the two ends with glue, 

not tho part atriking tho strings. Hold in place with springs of 

Darrnw hoop iron. 

Artificial Pkarls. — A.re made from beads of opaline glass filled 






i 



i -i 


., i\\ 


I 

I 



»1 



J. 



■;•■ > 



216 MACHINISTS, ENOINSERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



n i' 



with gum, tbti polish of the glass being reduoed by the yaptr o( 
hydroflaorio acid. 

Stalba's Niokki. Platiko Process.— Consists in plating with 
nickel, by the action of zinc upon salts of nickel, in the presence of 
chlorido of zinc and the metal to be plated. By this process, Stalbk 
states that he has succeeded in plating objects of wrought and oait 
iron, steel, copper, brass, zinc and lead. It is only necessary that 
the size of the objects should permit them to be covered entirely bj 
the plating liquid, and that their surfaces should bo free from dirt. 
Tho following is the modua operandi : — A quantity of ooncentratsd 
chloride of zino solution is placad in Oicletined metallic Tdssel, and 
to this is added ..n equal volume of water. This is heated to 
boiling, and hydroohlorio acid is added drop by drop, until ths 
precipitate which had formed on adding the water has disappeared. 
A small quantity ofi'^inc powder is now added, which proouceg a 
zinc coating on the metal as far as the liquid extends. Enough of 
tho nickel salt (the chloride or sulphate answers equally well) is 
now introduced to color the liquid distinctly green ; tho objects to be 

ftlated are placod in it, together with some zino clippings, and the 
iqnid is brought to boiling. The nickel isprecipitatea in the connci 
of 15 minutes, and the objects will be found to bo completely coated. 
The coating varies in lustre with the character of the metallio 
surface ; when this is polished, the plating is likewise lustrous and 
vice versa. Salt of cobalt affords a cobalt plating, which is steel 
gray in color, not so lustrous as the nickel, but more liable to tarnisb. 

GuAQiNO Strbahs. — Multiply the square root of tho cube of the 
height in inches of the water on the sill of the weir or guage u; the 
constant 17.13, which will give the number of gallons per minute. 
If the water haatany initial velocity U must be determined by 
experiment, and 1% that case multiply the square of the height by 
the square of the velocity, and by 0.8 ; to the product add the oabe 
of the height, extract the square root of the sum, and multiply b; 
17.13 as before. 

To PREVENT piTTixa WITH Small-poz. — As sooD as the disease ii 
distinguished, apply an ointment made of lard and charcoal to the 
face, neck, hands, ^c, and continue until all signs of suppurative 
fever have ceased. 

Cornish Rrddoino Fldx — Tartar lOoi., nitre 3oe., and 6drs. borax, 
3oz. and 1 dr. Mix together. 

To Make Coal Oil — Break the Coal or shale into small piecei 
and put from 10 to 16 owt. in an iron retort, heated to a dull red 
color. Lute the rotort door and keep up the heat for 24 hours. 
By this process a vapor is thrown off which passes through ranges of 
cisterns until it condenses, when it is run into cisterns. This crude 
oil, when roiinod and purified, is sold as parrafin oil, and solid par* 
rafin for making candles is made from it. 

Damascus Stgrl. — It is said that this steel consists of a highly 
earburetted metal which by undergoing careful cooling and annealing 
eeparatcs into two compounds of iron and carbon, giving it the 
peculiar appearance known as " Damasooening." Tho wonderful 
strength of this ^teel is no doubt owing to careful manipulat>up< 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, REOZIPTS. 



216a 



Kbw Ckhknt For Stbau Pipr Joints. The ne\r and excellent 

cement for steam pipe joints, the reoeipl. for which is now (June 
1873) b 'inK «i^l<l iill over the country at prices varying from $2 to 
130 coiisi^t^ of white lead and oxide of manganese, reduced to the 
jQagisteiice of thin putty and applied in the usual manner. 



Strokes, Jiack slowly^ 2 long and 2 short strokes, Go ahead full 
flxec/. Hong and 3 short strokes, ^acA/aaf, 2 long and 3 8hor# 
gtrokes. /7«rrv, 3 short strokes repeated. 

To Dyb Metals.— Metals can be dyed any color by dissolring 
any of the aniline dyes in methylated spirit and adding shellac. 
TLis solution must be painted on until thedosired shade is obtained. 
if^e iron has been previously painted white so much the better. 



^h * 



1 
.1 



TO FIND TQB OIRCDMFERBNOB OF ANT DIAMBTIR. 
FlO. I. 




EXPLANATION OV DIAGRAMS. 

From the centre C describe a circle AB, having the required 
diameter ; then place the corner of the square at the centre C, and 
draw the lines CD and GB ; then draw the chord DE : three times 
the diameter added to the distance from the middle of the chord 
DFE to the middle of the subtending arc DGB, will be the circum* 
ference sought. 



TO FIND THB AREA OF THE SECTOR OF A CiRCLB. 

Rule. Multiply the length of the arc DGE by its radius DO, 
tr'd half ilii! product is the area. 

Tue length of thi- arc DGK equal 9J feet, and the radii CD, CB, 
equal 7 feet, required the area. 

9-6 X 7 = 66-5 -r 2 = 3325 the area, 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPlg. 
PnOPORTION OF CmCLEB 

Fia. 2. 




To enaDte machinists to enlarge or reduce machinery wheels 
without changing their respective motion. 

Firbt^ describe two circles AB and CD the size of the largest 
wheels which you wish to change to a large or small machine, 
with the centre P of the smaller circle CD on the circumference ol 
the large one AB ; then draw two lines LM and NO tan<:jciit to the 
circles AB and CD and a line IK passing tlirough thoir c-ntr.sP 
and R ; then if you wish to reduce the machine, dpscriht> a circlj 
the size you wish to reduce it to; if one-half, for examjile, liiivetlie 
centre Q one-half the distance from R to S and describe the rircle 
EF, and on its circumference T as a centre, describe a cir^'lo Gfl, 
allowing their cirrnmffrencos to touch the tangent hues LM and 
NO, which will make tlie circle EF*' one-half the size of the circlfl 
AB, and Gil one-half the size of CD ; therefore EF and GH are ii\ 
the sumo proportion to each other as AB and CD. 



MACFTINISTS!, ENGINEERS, 4C., RECEIPTS. ^16" 

If you wish to reduce one-third, have the centre Q one-third the 
distance from IltoS; if one-fourth have the centre Q one-fotirth 
the (listiiiicc from R toS, and so on. This calculation may be 
applied bi'yoiid tlio centre R for enlarging machine wheels, which 
m\l cnabit! you to make the alteration without changing their rea- 
pectiro motion. 

.0 DK80RIBK AN ELLIP3B, OR OYAL. 

riG. 8. 




At a pivcn distance, equal to the required eccentricity of the 
ellipse, i)laco two pins, A and B and pass a string, AOH, round 
tlieru; keep the string stretched by a pencil or tracer, C, and move 
the pencil along, kecjjing the stringall the while equally tense, then 
will tl»e ellipse DGLFH be described. A find B arc the foci of the 
ellipse, D the centre, DA or DB the eccentricity, EF the principal 
axis or longer diameter, GH the shorter diameter, and if from any 
]»oint L in the curve a line be drawn perpendicular to the axia 
then will LK be an ordinate to the axis corresponding to the point 
L, and the jiartaof the axis EK, KF into which LK divides it are 
said to be the abscissae corresponding to that ordinate. 

NOTE. Oval, A curve line, the two diameters of which are of unequal 
length, and allied in form to the ellipse. An ellipRe ia that figure which 
\i produced by cutting a cone or cylinder in a direction oblique to its axis 
Bnd passing tlirougli its sides. An oval may bo formed by joining different 
segments of circles, so tltat tliolr mepting shall not be perceived, but 
forma c<)iitiniious curve line. All elUpscs are ovals, but all ovals are not 
tilip-ies ; for the term oval may be applied to all egg-fhaped flgurps, those 
wliicli are broader at one end than the other, a.' well as those whutie ends 
are (Hiually curved. 

DowLAis Ironworks, {England.) Fumaeea — Ei^ht, diameter 16 
to 18 feet, 1300 Tons Forge Iron per week ; dischargmg 44,000 cubic 
feet of air per minute. Engine {noncondenstng), Cylinder, 55 ins. 
iadiam. by 13 feet stroke of piston. Pressure of Steam, 60 lbs per 
square inch, cut off at } the stroke of the piston. Valves, 120 ins. in 
area Boilers. Eight, (Cylindrical flue, internal furnace), 7 feet 
in diam. and 42 feet in length ; one flue 4 ft. in diam. (Jrate» 288 
square feet, Fly wheel. Diam. 22 feet, weight, 25 tons. Jilowing 
Cijlmkr. 144 ms diam. by 12 ft. stroke of piston, Revoluttons, 20 
per uiimite, lUaat, 3J lbs. per square inch, Oisckargepipe, diam. 5 ft. 
and 420 feet in length. Valves^ Exhaust, 56 square feet, delivery, 1(» 
square feet. 



»^ 



';ii 



V' 



*■ ( 



V i 




] ^4 




210t? MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



TO DESCRlItE AN ELLIPSE. 
FIG, 4. 




To describe an ellipse of anjr length and width, and by it to des- 
cribe a pattern for the sides ot a vessel of any flare. 

First draw an indefinite lino 1)E perpendicular to the line AH, 
and from C, the point of intersocticui, as a centre, descrihe a circle 
FG, having the diameter ecpial to thi- lenrrth of theeIlii>K<' ; fr'im the 
same centre (J drscrihe a cirolt' 11.) equal to the widtl:; tlundt'J- 
criiie the end eircli'S liK' and LK.asnnich less than the widtli as 
the width is less than tiie leiigtli ; tlirn draw the lines MN auJMN, 
tangent to the eircl» s li'h, II J and KL ; from the middle of the 



IIPTS. 



idby ittodcs- 

) the line AB, 

scrifio a circle 
ipsi; ; frtim tlic 
Xh ; tlu'ii di'J- 
till' widlli as 
sMNumlMN, 
aiddlc of the 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &€■., RECEIPTS. 216e 

line MX fit erect a perpendicular produced until if intersects 
the indeliiiite lint' I)R ; from the point of intersection 1* as a centre 
Joscrilio thi! arc K'llK, and with the same sweep of the dividers, 
marii tiie ]ioint R on the line 1)E ; from the point R draw tiie lino 
RU iiud RV througii the points K' and K where the arc K'lIK 
touches the end circle, K'L and KL ; then place one foot of the 
dividers on the point Rand sj)an them to the point H, and describe 
the arc Q'ilQ, whicb will be equal in length to the arc K'llK ; from 
the SiiBie centre R describe the arc V\\'\ the width of the pattern ; 
then s|ian the dividers the diameter of the end circle Kli : place 
one foot of the dividers on the line RV at point Q, and the other 
at Y as I centre, describe the arc QT the leng'h of the curve line 
KG, and with tlie same sweep of the dividers describe the arc 
TQ' from the centre Y' on the line Ul' ; then span the dividers 
from Y' to V, and from Y' as a centre describe the arc UX and from 
Y as a centre describe the arc VX, which completes the descrip- 
tion of tlie iinilern. 

The more linre you wibli tlie pattern to have, the nearer the 
centre point R must l)e to II ; and the less Hare, the further the 
centre point ii must be from II; in the same proportion n3you move 
the centre R towards, or fidin II, you must move the centre Y 
towards, or from Q, or whieii vvmihl l)e tlie >aiiie as sjianiiiiifr the 
dividers less, or greater, than the diameter of the cud cirCle KL. 

TO FIND THE riHClTMFKnEN'CE OK AN ELLIPSE. 

Rn-K.— Multiply half the sum of the two diameters by 3.1H»1» 
fln»l the I'roduct will bo the circutnforence. 

J-J/iini/ilr. — Sujipose the lo igor diameter •! inelies and the shorter 
diameter 4 inches, then •) added to 4 e(pial JO, divided by '1 ecpial 5, 
multiplied by 314IG e([ual iniOHO inches cirenmrereuce. 

TO FIMi THE A!(E\ OF AN KM.Il'SE. 

RfLE.— Multiply the longer diameter by the shorter diameter, and 
by 7854, and the jiroduct will be the area. 

Exam}>lc. — Reouired the areaof an ellipse whoso longer diameter 
is G inches and shorter di iinetor 4 inclnes ? 

G X 4 X -7804 --• IH-.'^UJ'J, the area. 

CcMi'OSiTiON TO KESTOUE BuitNT S rEEL. — Two parts horn filingsj 
10 ]iarls lallow, 1 ]iart sal ammoi;iac, 1 part pulverized charcoal, 1 
part s^oda, i)ulverize the hard ingredients separately, mix all 
tlioroiij^jhly with the tallow. Bring your burnt steel to a cherry 
red and dij) it in the mi.xture ; when it gets cold it maybe hardenea 
in the usual mfinner. 

iMi'itovKD Coi-oiucD FinE3. — Whi'e. Saltpetre, 2 parts, sulphur 2 
purls, antimony,'2 parts, Rt'd. Nitra'e of slroutia, 20 i)arts, chlorate 
of i)0!ash .') parts, sulplivr % parte, charcoal 1 part. Jiluc. 
Chlorate of potash 9 parts, sulphur 3 parts, c.vrbonato of copper 3 
parts. I'riicw. Nitrate of soda 21 iiarts, autinvjuy H parts, sulphur 
C> parts, oiiarcoal 1 part. Green. Nitrate of baryta, 2G parts, ehlo- 
rat''o(ii, 'ah IS parts, sul;.'hur l'> part-!. I lo/i-i. Nitrate of strontia 
4 pftri.-, rilomte of pot iHh U parts, iMilpUir f) parts, carbonate of 
t .'per i part, calomel 1 piart. 



Vl 



h 



I. ',*■' 



216/ MACniNISTH, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



.. 



> 



•"O DBSCHIBE A RIOHT ANGLED ILBCW 

Fia. 5. 




Pirsi con?tiniet ft we^nnplc ADDrt eqnal In width to tlio diameter 
of tlic oUtuW, (iiul the Iciij'tli I'ljiiul to tlio circiiiiit'croucc; llu'u from 
tJio point .1, the ini(l<ilo of tho lino AH, draw the Iitu> J If, ai'il from 
the j.oiiit F.tiio iiiidilli.! of tho I'lic A 1), draw tiie line FG; from tlie 
point J draw two diagonal lines J D and J K ; then span thodividi-rsso 
as to div (U; one of these diagonal lined into six equal parts, viz. J, L 
0, T, 0, V, K; from the j)oint L erect u pcrpendieular, produced 
to the line JII , from the point of contact M, as a centre, describe 
the aro NJO for tho top of the < Ibow. and from the iioints M M 
as centres, Vith tho Hame .swee[) of the dividcr.-i, deserihe the 
arcs NO and NO; then draw an indefinite Btrjiitrlit lino PQ 
tangent to thn arcni No and NJ, having the jioints of eonlact at 3 
and 8; on this tangent line enct a ])erpendienliir i)a3-ing throwtjli 
the j)oint N prod:ieed nntil it interaects the line 1510 jiroduced; 
then place one fool of th^ ilivider-i on the point of interscctina It 
and snjin them over the doti. d line to the ])nint T, and with the 
divider:^ thii.s h^annrd det;cril' the nrcs TS, TS, TS, a'ld TS- 
thedc arc.^ ami tho arcs NO, NJU, uud ON will be the ri^jht uugicil 
elbow ruij aired 



MiVCHINISTS, EN GINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 216^ 





to dssoribr a straight ilbow. 
Pig. 6. 



^=»c 




lal 



Mark out the lenffth and depth of elbow, ABOD ; draw a semi- 
circle at each end, as from AB and CD; divide each semicircle 
intu eip^lit parts ; draw horizontal lines as shown from 1 to 1, 2 to 
2, 4c. ; diviile the circumference or length, ACBD, into sixteen 
parts, and draw perpendicular lines as in figure ; draw a 
from a to b and fror». 6, to c and on the opposite side from dioe 
c to/; for the top sweep set the dividers on /oMrM line from 
t )[» and sweep two of the spaces ; the same at the corner ; on space 
for tlu' remaining sweeps set the dividers so as to int rsect in the 
three cnrucrs of tho spaces marked x. The seams must be added 
to drawing. 

[Another Method for describing a Straight Elbow.] 

Fig. 8. Fig. 7. 






eqi 

line 

anil 





'/ 


7^ 


'm 


!!*, 


<|r^ 


* i 


^^^j^ 


-^ 


? 


/ 








; 


\ 


?; 








*. 


■ 










\ 


y 


« 




Fiu. 7.— Draw a profile of half of the elbow wanted, and mark 
A semicireie on the lino representing the diam rer, divide the semi- 
circle into si.t ccjual parts, draw perpendicular lines from each divi- 
eiim o!\ tlie circle to the angle line as on figure. 

Fio. 8. Draw the circumference and depth of elbow wanted* and 
divids into twelve equal parts, mark the height of perpendicular 
linos of Fi<j. 7 on Fig. 9 a b c kc] set your dividers the same ta 
for the semicircle and sweep from e to e interaecting with/ and the 
same from a to the corner, then set the dividers one-third the cir- 
cumforenco and sweep from e to d each tide, and from a to 6 each 
lide at bottom ; then set your dividers three-fourths of the circum- 
firvMioii and swee[t from c t) '/ each side on top, and from c to 6 at 
l)ott.)iii, and you obtain a nioro correct pattern than is generally 
\\i\'A. Allow V)i- the la|> or seam oiitdide of yoar drawinc:, and lay 
out til ! elbow (lei«|) enough to ]uit. tog >thcr by swodgo or machine. 
It; careful in dividing and marking out, and the largo end will bo 
true wllhout trimaiiui^. The doamj must bu added to drawing. 



lif 



\ 




i ^ 



2167t MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 

TO DK3CUIBE BEVBL C0VKR3 FOB VESSELS, OR BREASTS FOR CARS- 

FlO. 9. 




From as a centre, describe a circle DE larger than the vessel ; 
and from C as a centre, describe a circle AB the size of the vessel, 
then with the dividers the same as you described the circle the siw 
of the vessel, apply them six times on the circumference of the cir- 
cle larger than the vessel ; for can-breasts describe the circle FG 
the size you wish for the 0{)ening of the breast. 

T& DESCRIBE PlTCnED COVERS FOR PAILS, &C. 

Fiu. 10. 







To cat for pitched covers, draw a circle one inch larger than the 
hoop is in diameter after burring, then draw a line from the centre 
to the circumference as in the figure, and ouo inch from the centre 
and connecting with this line draw two more lines the ends of 
which shall be one inch ou either side of the line firit drawn, umi 
then cut out the piece. 

Quick BiiKiiirDir for IIuass. — U,so strong nitric ucid in snfTicient 
quantity, dij) your brass in tlie li(|iiid lor an iustunt, wiihilraw, autl 
iiiiinediiitrly iiiimcrst! it lirst in ii.lil wutcr, tli"ii in boiling wuicr, 
for a sliort tinio only in each bath, then ulluw it to dry. Uepeut 
the process if necessary. 



rs. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 216i 



[the resspl ; 
[the vessel' 
'cle the size 
f of tlin cjr. 

e circle Fg 



• than the 
ho centre 
10 contre 
eriiJs of 
iH'ii, ami 

'iifTicionf 

■aw. aii,i 

k' waicr, 

lii'peut 



TO DBSCBIDE AN OVAL BOILER COVER. 
FlQ. 11. 




From C as a centre, describe a circle whose diameter will be 
oqiml to the width of tnc boiler outside of the wire, and draw ;ho 
line AH perjifindicular to the line EF, having it pass through the 
point 1), wiiicli is one-half of the length of tiio boiler; then mark 
the point J one quarter of an inch or more as you wish, for the 
pitch of tlie cover, and apply the corner of tlio 8<iuaro on the lin 
AH, allowing the blade to fall on the circle at H, and the tonago 
nt the point J; then draw the linos Illi, BJ, GA and AJ, which com- 
pletes tlic description. 

To VVki.d Strkl Axlks.— To insure a good weld, prepare the 
composition described on page 173 for welding cast steel. Uso 
a strong fire, and when the axle is brought to what may be termed 
a bright red heat, apply a sulllcicncy of the cora])ositioii and return 
it to the fuo until the heat is regained once more, then place it 
untler the hammer, lie careful not to put on too much of the com- 
I)o.sition, otherwise it might waste in the fire, ind by its allitiity 
lorinetnl ob-itruct tlic tweer iron, thereby preventing the fire from 
n'l'civing the full energy of the bhist, and thus retarding if not 
ej)oiling the job. 

(;oMl'llE-«H10.N OF AN INniA-IirnHKU nrKKKU OK ^ INS. STKOKK. 

1 ton, 1.:J inch. 1^ tun, I { iu-li. 2 tons, finches. 3 tons, 23-diuchea 
C tone, 22 inches. 10 tons, 3 inches. 









'f 



i \ 



2ir»/ MACHINISTS, EN0INEER8, AC, RECEIPTS. 



gti 



, 



to desobibb a up to a ueasuiib 
Fig. 12. 

P 




Let the circle AS represent tlie size of the measure : span the 
dividers from K to F tlireo-qtmrtcrs of the diameter ; describe the 
Beraicircle DKE ; move the divjilcrs to G the width of tlie lip 
required, and describe the semicircle KPJ, which will be tlie lip 
sought. 

TiikCirclb and itsSbctions. — I. The Areax n/eireUs arc to each 
Other aa the squares of their diameters ; any circle twice the diame- 
ter of another contains four times the area of the other. 2. The 
Radius of a circle is a straight lino drawn from the centre to tlic 
circumference. 3. The J)ianu'.ter of a c rcle is a straight, line drawn 
through the centre, andteminatcd both ways at the circumference. 
4. A C'Aorrf is a straight line joining any two points of the circum- 
ference. 5. An Arc is any part of the circumference. G. A iSVmi- 
circic is half the circumference cut off by a diameter. 7. A. Seg- 
ment is any part of a circle cut off by a chord. 8. A Sector is any 
pert of a circle cut off by two radii. 

iSpRiNOS. — The flexure of iv spring is proportional to its load and 
to the cube of its length. A railway carriage spring, consisting of 
10 plates 5-16 inch thiclc and 2 of 3-8 inch, length 2 feet 8 ins, width 3 
ins , and camber or spring 6 ins. ; deflected as follows, without any 
permanent set. ) ton, ^ inch. 1 ton, 1 inch. Ij^ ton, 1^ inch. 2 tons, 2 
tiiches, 3 tons, 3 inches. 4 tons, 4 inches. 

DiFFEBBNT STYLES OF FiLiNQ. — To file a surfaco true, it is 
necessary on commencing to squeeze the file tightlv between the 
third ana fourth fingers and palm of your hands until you become 
used to it. Your position in filing should he half letl face to yonr 
work, with the middle of your riglit foot fifteen inches behind your 
left heel; and to file your work truo or square, it is necessary to 
reverse your work often as l»y this means yi»u are enabled to see 
the whole surface yon are fi! nig, fine? sf" wiilo filing whether you 
uro filing true or ni»t. WIumi, howevi>r, your work i^ po heavy 
that you cannot reverse it you had ItetttT file first to the right and 
then to the I'ft, i'.i by this meiin.iyoucau plainly see the file marke, 
and thitj again assists you in tiling true. 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEBBS, AC, BEC7JIPTS. 216^ 

TODBBCniBB A FLARINO VRSSEL PATTBRN, A SET or PATTERNS FOB A PT- 
tUkUtD CAKEj OR AN ENYRLOPE FOR A CONE. 

FIO. 13. 



*' ' i 'I 



I:,, 



Span the 
Iscribe the 
)f the lip 
the lip 

Ire to each 

[the (liiune- 

r. 2. The 

tro to the 

line drawn 

iiniferonce. 

he circum- 

f>. A Sani- 

7. A %. 

tor is anj 

3 load and 
isiaiiiig of 
is.,width3 
thoiit any 
1. 2 tons, 2 

rue, it is 
ween the 
I become 
a to your 
lind your 
essafy to 
ed to see 
ther you 
'O hpavy 
igiit and 
.0 marks, 




From a point C as a centre, describe a circle A B equal to the large 
circuuifi'rence ; wiih the point F as a centre, the depth of the 
vessel, describe a circle DE equal to the small circumference ;then 
draw the lines Gil iiml KS tuup;entto the circles AB and DK; from 
fh(> ]>oiiit of inter-jpction < ) us a cintre, describe the arcs ACB an<l 
l>FK ; t'Mri ADKB Will Ix; tho size of tti<! vessel, and thn'o such 

ii'ci'S vill bo II n en^tlopo fur it, and AJRTFU the altitude ; then 

<iivi.liiit,' till! sector iinll into sectionii AB, DE, PQ, and WX, you 

w II iiave a set of patterns for a I'ynunid cake ; and the sector J: OB 

will bo one-third of an envelope for a cone. 

Ill ailowinp for locks,y()n must draw the lines parallel to the radii, 

B represented in the dia^^rain by dotted lines, which will bring tho 
vessel true across the top and bottom. 



Bs 



vll 




ii> 



ir 



> 



2162 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEEHS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



TO OCfiCRIBI ▲ CONK OB rRCSTDII. — FlO. 14. 



\ 



/ 



■P 



/ 



'^ 



. ••- 



Q\ 



/ 



;*© 



/ 






First draw a side elevation of the desired vessel, DE, then from 
A as a centre describe the arcs ODC and GEG ; after finding the 
diameter of the top or large end, turn to a table of Diameters and 
Circumferences, wnere yoa will find the true circumference, wiiich 
you will proceed to lay cut on the upper or larger arc CDC, mak- 
ing due allowance for 'ihe locks, wire and burr. This is for one 
piece ; if for two pieces vou will lay out only one-half the circum- 
ference on the plate ; if for three pieces one-third ; if for four pieces 
one-fourth ; and bo on for any number, remembering to make the 
allowance for locks, wire and burr on the piece you use for a pattern^ 

BCLB FOB BTEIKINa OUT ▲ OOMB OR rBUBTUM. — FlO. 22. 




in a conical surface, fbere may be economy, sometimes, in hav!D|^ 
the slant height G times the radius of base. For a circle may be 



wh(»lly cut iuto conical surfaces^ if the angle is 60' 30', 15', «fec. 

But there is a greater simplicity in cutting it, wlien the uu^le is 
60^ . For instance, take AC equal to the slant heiqrht, describe an 
indefiaite arc AO; with the same opening of the dividers measure 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



2H)m 



from A to B ; draw BO and we hare the required sector. This 
yroiM make the angle C equal 60°. This anRie may be diyided 
into two or four equal parts, and we should thus have sectors wbosd 
anple would 1 o 30^, or which would not make the vepsel very 
flaring. The accompanying ilgure gives about the shape of the fla> 

FiQ. 16. 




ring vessel when the anple of the sector is 30". 

TO KIM) TIIH CONTENTS OP A PYRAMID OR OONB. 

Rl'le.— Multiply the area of the base by the height, and one-third 
of the firoduct Avill bo the solid content. 

ExAMi'LK. — Required the solid content in inches of a Cone or Py- 
ramid, the diameter of the base being 8 inches, and perpendicular 
height 18 inches ? 

8x8^G4x.7854xl8^904. 7808-^-3=301.5936 inchesX231=l gall. 
llqts 

HIPPED ROOFS, MILL HOPPEBS,SC. 

To find the various Angles and proper Dimensions qf Materials where- 
by to construct any figure whose form is the Frustum qf a proper oi 
inverted Fyramid, as Hipped Roofs, Mill Hoppers^ ^c, 

Fio. 17. 



D 


C 


' 


W- 




VA 


a 


T% 


A 


i 


' 



Let ABCD be the given dimensions of plan for a roof, the height 
RT also being gi ■ en ; draw the diagonal AR, meeting the top or 
ridge Rs on plan ; from R, at right angles with A R and equal to the 
required height, draw the line RT then TA. equal the length of the 
Btruta or corners of the roof; from A, with toe distance AT. describe 
an arc T^, continue the diagonal AR until it cuts the arc T/, through 
which, and parallel with the ridge R», draw the line wn, which de- 
tenuities the required breadth for each side of the roof : from A. 
meeting the line m n, draw the line Ao, or proper angle for the end 
of each board by which the roof might require to be covered; and 
the angle at T is what the boards require to be made in the direc- 
tion of their tbickaess, when the corners or angles require to be 
mitred. 



«:!.( 



\ : 



■ipi 



^■^*''* MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



TO DESCRIBE A HEART. 
FlO. 18. 





Drawan indefinite linfi AH; then span the dividers ono-fourlhlhe 
width you wish tlie lieart,iiii(ldes('rib!' two sctiiiriiounifcn'iuTs AC 
and CH; span the dividers frou! A tol?, tlic widih of tiio lit'iirt, nud 
describe the lines AD and BD, which completes the dcscriptioa 




Cycloid, a carve much used In mechu iics. It is thus formed :— 
If the circumference of a circle be rolled on a right line, beginning 
at any point A, and continued till the same point A arrive at the 
line again, making just one revolution, and thereby nieasuriiipout 
a straight li:ie AHA equal to the circumference of a circle, wliile 
the point A in the circumference traces out a curve line A(!AGA; 
then this curve is called a cycloid ; and some of its properties are 
contained in the following lemma. 

If the generating or revolving circle be placed in the middle of 
the cycloid, its diameter coinciding with the axis AH, and fVoni any 
point tliere be drawn the tangent CF, the ordinate t'DE peijun- 
clicular to the axis and the chord of the circle AD ; then tlio cliitf 
properties are tliese : 

Tlie right line CD equal to the circular arc AD ; 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 2l6o 



'I'Vrt'iKT.s.AC 
Ik-' Iifart, ftnj 

lescriptioa 



3 formed :— 
B» iH'ginning 
rrivc at the 
ftsiirinpout 
irclf, while 
' A(;AGAi 
jperties are 

e middle of 
<l from any 
'E fierjicn- 
3 tliu chief 



The cyrloidnl arc AC equal to double the chord AD; 
Tlio sinii-cy^loid A('A f-qual to double the diameter AB, and 
Tlio taiij-'cnt CF is jxirallrl to the chord AD. 
'"Ills curve is the line of swiftest descent, and that best suited for 
il' ! path tif the bull of a nondnlum. 

; J l-l.ND TUK CENTUK OF A CIRCLE KliOM A I'AHT OF THE CIKCUMFEKBNCH, 

FlQ. 20. 




Span ihc dividers any distance you wish, and place one foot on 
the (■■rcuiiifcroiice AB, and doscrilm the sctnicircunifcrenccs CI), E 
F, (ill, and IK, and through the ])olnts of their intersection PQ and 



tl 

RS, dr^nv two indefinite lines LM and NO ; the ptdut of their inter- 
section T, will be the centre desired. 



21t»/> BIAOniNISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 
TO CONSTRUCT TRB FRCSTDlf OF A CONB. 

Form offiat Plat* by which to construct any Fmstum of a Com 

Fio. 21. 







Let A BCD represent the required frustum ; continue the lines AD 
and BC until they meet at E ; tlu n from E as a centre, with tlie ra. 
diu8 EU, describe the arc ClI ; aUo from E, with tlie rudius EH, di- 
scribe the arc BI ; malte BI equal in IcnRlli to twice AGB, draw tin 
line EI, and BCIH is the form of tlie plato as nquired. 

TO DKSOHIBE BKVBL COVKRS FOR VESSKLS, OR BREASTS FOR CANS. 

Fia. 22. 




Construct a ripht angle ADB , and from the point C, t^c altitude 
heipjhtyou wish the breast, erect a perpendicular line F; then on 
the line B, mark the point E one-half the diameter of the can and 



MACnmiSTS, ENGINEERS, AG., RECEIPTti. 216^ 



I Foil CANS. 



on the line F, nark the point O one-hnlf the diameter of the open- 
inff'in the top of breast ; draw a line N to pass through the pointi 
Eiiml O i)r()<iiicod "otll it intcraecta the line A ; place one foot of 
the (llvi'lcM lit the point of intersection H, and place the other on 
the point E, and describe the circle EIK j span the dividers from 
the |)oiiit H tu point G, and describe the circle GLM ; then span the 
dividers from tno point D to E,and step them six times on the clicle 
EIK, wliich gives the size of the breast. Remember to mark the 
lines for the locks parallel with the radii. 

BS0T0B| FOB OBTAIMIMO AMOLXa.— FlQ. 23. 




Sector, a portion of a circle comprehended between any two radii 
andiheir intercepted arcs.— «iwu7ar sector* are those whose radii 
include equal angles. 

To find the area of a sector. Say as 300'' is to the degrees &c., 
in the arc ot the sector, so is the area of the whole circle to the area 
of the sector. Or multiply the radius by the length of the arc, and 
half the product will be the area. 

TO STBIKK THE BIDS OS* A FLARUia VESSEL. — FIQ. 24. 




To find the radius of a circle for striking the side of a flaring 
vessel having the diameters and depth of side given. 

RuLK. —As the difference between the large and small diameter 
is to tlie depth of the side, so is the small aiameter to the radius 
of the circle by which it is struck. 

Example. — Suppose ABC D to be the desired vessel, with a top 
dinmeter of 12 inches, bottom diameter 9 inches, depth of side 8 
inches. Then as 12 — 9=3 : 8 : : 9 to the radius. 

8 x9 = 72-r3=24 inche» answer. 







1 y m i. I ' 



216r MACHINISTS, ENGINEEIIS, AC, RECEIPTS. 
CONTENTS IN GALLONS OF THE FHU8TKUM OF A CONg. 

Figs. 25, 2G, 21. 





To find the contents in gallons of a Te«!8el whose diameter is 
lart er at one end than the other, such as a JJowel, Pail, Firkin, Tuh, 
Cott'L'c-pot,&c. 

RcLK. -Multiply the larger diameter by the smaller, ami \n{\w 
product add one-third of the siiuare of their diflercuci-. iiiiiUi|ilv 
by the height and rauUii»ly that product by .0034 for Wine Gii 
Ions, and by .00278.') for beer. 

Example.— Required the contents of a Coffee-pot »> iiu'liesdia. 
meter at the top, 9 mchcs at the bottom, and 18 inches !iigli. 
luge diameter 9 brought up 102G 

email do 6 .0034 



54 
J of the square 3 

5.7 
height 18 



4104 
3078 

3.4HH4 Wine Gallons, 
or nearly 3i gallons. 



Carried up l<>2n 

102<J multiplied by .00278.') equal 2.8.'')74 Ue^r (Ja/htis. 

Makino Diios for ScuEW-cuTTiNO.— Ill making tlicH for scirw. 
cutting, they .siioiild, whenever practicable, lie lapped with a taiicc 
tap, as they cut more easily and wear 'cngur than those wiiicliare 
cut siraighl, and then tapered oil" to nnike the screw '' tjike.' 

Very line threaded screws, however, cut well with .«trai;,'lii die- 
Small' dies, or dies below one-fourth of an inch in size, slioiild 
only have three iips in them. Dies from onci-fourth to one ln;l: 
shiaild have four lips in them. Dies from three-fuurihs to one inch 
slioidd liave six lip; i them ; and dies from one inch (o one uiid 
a hidf should have sjven lips in tliem. Tiie cuid thronjrti dm 
should be only twice the deptfi of the thread which ia HuHicii nt to 
make them f.'ee themselves from <;hips, for wlieii cut toodet'i. tliiy 
are liable to break oi 'h<^. face. Harden am] drau to a straw a Idr. 

To Dn* A Ki.i'Ti;!) I'kameu I'KopKia.v. — Dip it perpeMilicuhniy tn 
a short distance beyond the fluting — tii.it i.s to say, about halt'iui 
inch and witlidraw 'md return it sevt-ral lime.s. I'h s lijirikiis :1 
tlie lip-*, a 1(1 nrevcMt^ it cracking (tiT at llie wait r'.^ e'lj^"', wl. > n ..- 
the case when a piece v)f steel is dipped in to a certain deplL, uud 
allowed to cool without moving. 



r8. 



tNE. 



fliamoter is 
iFirkin, Tub, 

r, and I.) till. 

|l<'l'. IIllllti|i|v 

T Wine Giil. 

•; inches dia 
s high. 



ions, 

s. 



'/litis. 

I'ri for sori'W- 
I Willi a ta|)Ct 
'■■^<' wiiicliare 
' Ink.-.'' 
^li'iii;,'|ii (lie-, 
si/i', slioiild 

i» to line In;!! 

^ to one inch 
I to one iiiid 
lii'on^'h ijifii 

midicit lit to 
^oo (icfji iIhv 

straw ('i.ldr. 
iidiciiljuiy tn 
Itoiit liali'jiti 
' liardni^ ;, 
!«"', wh.i'ii If 
i di'pih, iiad 



FlMN' 



AfArrrJNTSTS, ENOINEERH, AC, RECEn»TS. 217 

Saw.s. — The grand secret of pulling any a:av \n the l)c,st 



,,i,jsibli! ordtT, coiisi 



sts in filini; the teeth at a jrive 



Ijiven angle to cut 



r)i|' 



;istr;iii,'ii 
|iai' 



ilv, iiMil of 11 uniform length rio that tiio point.-} wi.l all touch 
I t'lltreil rule without siiowing a variation of the hundredtli 



...tofan iiK'li. Hi'sidcM this, there should be just set enougli in 
llic teill' to cut a keif a^ narrow as it can bo made, and at tho 

SJirue 



m 



„..„- tiia<! allow thi- bhido to work freely without pinching, (hi 
(liiMiiiitrary, the kerf must not bu so wide hh to permit tiie blade to 
ttjc whin ill motion. Tho very points of tho teeth do the cutting. 
Ifoiic tiiolli is a twentieth of an inch longer tiian two or liirec on 
i.;ic|i .•<iili' of it, tlie long tooth wil' lie reipiired to do .-^o much mon» 
lUttiiij,' than it .''houid, that the sawing cannot be done well, henco 
ihi'.'^aw goes iniiipiiig along, working hard a;id cutting .slowly ; if 
looih is lMii;,'ei than those on <'ither .side of it, tlii^ short teetli 



OIH 



doimt cut iilliiough their points may be sl.ari>. When imtting 



ne<'eris.iry to put a saw in itrimc order, one 
shtrten the pointof a tooth .-■oinueh 



cross ml .sa v in oider, it will pay well to 'ires.s the point.s with an 
iiM till', and afterwald^ sharpen them with a fine whetstone, much 
1,. •cliMiiii-al skill is 
Ciirok'.-.^ thn.sl with a file will 
llmlitwill le utterly useless, so far as cutting is concerned; tho 
tw'tli should )• .«ei with miieh care, and the filing done with tho 
);iiiit(st aeciiraey If the teeth are uneven at the points, a large. 
Hut lili! shniild li'- secured to a lilork of wood in siudi a manner 
thiit till' very pnints only may be jointed, so that the cutting edge, 
of liie same may be in a straight line, or circle, if it is a circidar 
-iiw ; every tooth should cut a little as the saw is worked. The 
iiitli lit a hand saw for all kinds of work should be; filed tieaming, 
III- ;it an HUgie on tht; front edge, while the back eilges may be 
liliil tIe.'UMiitg, or .square across iIkj blade. Hut Ixsst way to file a 
linular saw for culling wood across the grain, is to dress every 
tiflii tiiiitli si|uare iUMH>-s, niid apart one twentieth of an iiifh 
sliiirier than tiie others, which should \>c filed fleaming utaiianghi 
ul' about forty degrees. 

.Vs regards such saws as are useii for cutting up large logs into 
luiiihcr it is of the utmost importance to have them tiled at such an 
niiL'ie as will eiisur.; the largest amount of work with the least 
i'.\|iriiiiiliiie (if|iower. The following diagrams will lielp to illustrate 
our uu'iU'.iiig. Fig. I. show.s the, shape of teeth which nearly .ill ex- 



3\A 




/ 



Fiu. 1. 




\ fe 



;1 



MM 




218 MACIlINlf^JVS, ENUINKKRS, A*'., RKl'Kir'TS. 

perionccd iniU-incn consiiler as thaUstiindanI form wliidi comliinij 
the Rrfatot^t amount of Blrenglh and fajmcity for rajtid work, with 
the uiinimum. of driving power while doing the work. 

Figure No. 2 reproscnts a passahlo form of tooth wliicliarpcapH. 
ble of doing a good doul of work, hut thoir groat woakiic.-islicsin 
tlioir sUmtier jtoints. Look tmt for '' breakers" when teeth of tlm 
descriptioa ore pasaiug tiirough dry spruce or hemlock ki/.i^. 




X-->-4^ 




I''i(». 2. 



Fig. No. 3 illustrates tlie a|)pearanco of one of tho.^o intoloraM* 
wood rasps which are altogether too common in saw-mills, (tiilv 
think what an a loilling waste of valuable power is rf<pi'rcil l(, 
drive a "jigger 'Mike this through a largo log I 



X~ 



I-JV 





Fio. 3. 

Fig. 4, at 't, is intended to show the method of aseertniiiiii;/ iH 
proncr angle, that of hi.xty (h'grees, at wliich such saws .v//""/'/t* 
filccl. The diagram being sol f-e.Kplanatorv rotjuireshut liltic tuiliici' 
tducidation here. A (jiiarter circle with lines radiatin: tVniii tlic 
centre towards tlie circumft'reiico is represented near the veri^c nt 
the segment of a circular s»w. '] ho lower part corres|ic(inls with 
the level of the horizon, nnd the higlier part at 'JO^ corresponds 



I PTS. 



'"•Ii coniJ; 



mi 



''"' work, wiih 



'"cliar(>caf,a. 

'Ilk ncss lies ill 

I" '•■•'Ihof tliii 



•»^''' intolcr.ihlft 
\v-iMiIls. (»nlv 



I'l'iliiiiiiii;/ tli( 
laws shonhlh 
t lilllf tiiitlici' 
tin . Cidiii tlif 

■ tilt' Vl'fffC (if 

•('S|t(iiitl.s will) 



MACHINJSTB, ENUINKEHS, AC, UKCEII'T,' . 



219 



\^•itll the zonitli or moridiiin, where tlie sun appoar.s at noon-day. 
Kxfift I V half-way up is 45" ; look up a littU* hij^hor an<l you will 
find Cd^' iiidinited by the radiating line which runs parallel with 
,j„, mijrle of the tooth of the saw and this is the K"id(! you must 
follow in tiling. The same rule is seen applied to a straight mill 
saw at h. 







■•i: 



■i 



; \ 



Many jjood nuthoriticg contend that mill saws should in on cnsf 
be set with the instrument commonly used for that purpose, hut 




1 \ mm \» m ] HM mmtMMimm^. 



2:10 MACIIINIKTS, KNOINEKUS, AC, KECEIl'TS. 



\i 



I 



wf 



n i; 



i •'■' 



" 1 I 



i; 




tliiit in li(!U tlicf'of the tct-th should b. spread out iil ihc in/mts 
witli the swiij^o or upset to »i Hiiflicieut extent to p; niiit ilie body ,jf 
the sii'.v to ojierate without binding. IJoth instruments rccjiiin; lo 
be skilfully liaudhil, and the swage, wlicn used in this way, hiy 
proved itself eiiuul to every v-inorgeuey without the risk or hmik- 
itig the teeth. It would be (lul'e safe to say that the saw -sctalioiiid 
only be used on saws of this dv'scnptioa with tho uiost e.Mri'm« 
caution and care. Kvery nianuhi.'turer, however, luis Ins own 
o|iiiiion, and consefjuent practice on iho siibjeet, some ruiili'iidiuL' 
that on" way is right and the other dirocily the reverse. 

To liKPAlll FuACiCKKr) ('lUCt'LAll {SaWS. — TIk; hvs* Way t ill) 

ihis is to drill a small round liole at tho termiiiation of the em k 
wiiicii efJectiially prevents its further estfiision, 1 Iiav seen souk! 
circuiar saws very neatly repaired l)y riveting thin eliiniiis to cicli 
side of the friuiture, both clamps an<l rivets being couiilersiiiik so 
they wiU be level with the surface of the saw, and placed in siicli 
a |M»sition across tlu( cractc as to impart the greatest pnssililn 
strength to the weakest place. A table of the speed of cudilar 
Haws can be seen at l)age lU'J, this, however, does not einhrjiii' th« 
velocity of shingle machine saws, wljich ought to make at least 
11(H) revfdutioiis jier minute. 

To .Mkm) Bhokk.n Ckoss vvr .Saws.— In thefii.st phice s.ut' nff 
llie Itroken edges in -:iich a nianiier that when lapped over eaili 
other they will be about the same thickness as the rest of tin: 
]i!;ite, and ri\<'t them together loosely with iron rivets iiisertt-il 
lliroiigh liol'-s which must be puiiclied for that purposi- ; thecinli 
Jiiusl be iiniled with great accuracy so that the teeth, .Vc., of the 
saw may range truly. Sow place t!u! saw in the fire, then a tliixuf 
j)owdered b.ira.x and sal ammoniac is Howeii all over it after having 
if rai.sed to the proi)er heat. See page 17.'{ for preparing and iisiii;,' 
the composition. Ketiirn the saw to the (ire and when it ;-; laispij 
to the proper welding lieat, phuc it on ihe anvil and iiiiiie tin- 
joint as rapitlly as jiossible \\ ilh the .'lamnier; be careful not to 
heat so hot as to injure the steel. When 'he job is well tlone, niid 
the |iaif pntperly tempered, it will be found as strong as thenst 
t)f the plate. 1 know om- itlacksmith in f'anida who told m that 
this class of work was the best paying part of his business. 

ro\vi';i{ or K.S(iiNKs. -Ilorse-power in steam enj^nncs j^ enl( ulatoil 
ns the power wiiieh would raise .'ili.OdO Ihs. a foot high in a iiiimile, 
or !Jti llts. at the rale of t miles j-n lioiir. One liorse-jiower iseiiiial 
to the lifting, l.y a pump, of '2;")0 hogsheads of water ten feet in iiii 
hour. Or it would drive Itxi spiinlies of cotton yarn twist, or finii 
*ipiiidles of No. IH mule yarn, or lOdOof No. I !•», or 12 power Iuoki-!. 
One lioise-power is proiluced by II) Ihs. of Newca>tle coals, fiu Ui'i 
of wdfid, or o\ lbs. of culm. Coals 1, wood ;$, and culm '2, jrive 
equal heats in the production of steam. 

Sixteen lbs. of Newcastle coal converts I'W^ lbs. of wal'-i into 
sleiini. A bushel of coal per hour raises sK'am to i.; llts. the 
Bquare inch, w host; velocity is li{r»n feet per second, and J Inislii'li 
raise it to 120 lbs., or velocity of .'iHUO feet per second. .\ limst'- 
power iH'(piires from .0 to 7 gallons of water per minute lor iiiinlcii- 
tjalion of steam. A steain engine whose cylinder is lU inche.s, with 



fiAClIINIStS, ENUlNEEllS, ><:<J., IlKCEU'TS. '2'2\ 



.i< ' 'I 



IV (iitiililc strokes poi miiinto, pcrfiirms the roiiUatit wnrk of 10 
hnisrs willi T) lotirf (tCcoiiI jilt ilav. One of i;> iiirlics luid '.!,"i slrokts 
of'!-' IiiHsc-!, with 1.) toM?^ pn- (lay. TUry raise 2<i,0(i() culiic I'cct of 
Wiitir -I feet for every liiiii<lreil weij^lit of eoaLs. (die htisliel of 
(Tdoil coals rais«'S from 24 to ;r2,00(i,(K)(» llis. one foot per luiiiiite. 
Fmir liiislicl of coals jut hour, will, .i c; liiidcr of 'A\ \ inches and 
1"! stpikts of 7 feet per niimite, is a force etpial to iu" horses eou- 
:<t:iiitly. A rotative (hmhh' engine, with a cyliniler of 'J.'l.Tri 'mcIics, 
milking,' lilt strokes of 5 feet jter minute, is a -0 lioise-power ; ami 
:i cyliiiiler of ]!!■>, niakiiiff ■>'> strokes of I feet is a 10 horse-power ; 
ijit'cdusiiniption of eoals beiuf^ proportional. 

(Is Stkam I'.oii.Kits. — U«'ganMuf^ the steam eiifrino as under I'ro- 
vidiiice, one of the most powerfnl civilizing agents in existence, 
aiiii tile |irocuring cause of the l)read of many thousands uf om* 
f.'ilow-hiings, it seems highly proper to jtlaee on record some well- 
kiiiiwn ficls regarding K>oiler eonstruction and the properties of 
iiti'inii, vVc, in order that such knowledge may he used to mitigatir 
the nmulier of those lamentable accidents which, m too many 
rtisc.-', owe their origin to ignorance and incapacity Ivegarding 
\\\(' form of hollers, it is now an ascertained fact that the niaxinnnn 
stiiMiglh i- ohtaineil liy adopting the cylindrical or i-ircnlar ft/rni, 
till' iiii\('ock, hemispherical, and waggon-shaped boilers, so general 
at one time, have now destfvedly gone almost out of use. (rood 
luiiler plate is capable of wit' standing a tensile strain of TtOjOdo 
i!k or (in, (10(1 lbs. on evoi-y sriiiure inch of section; but it wdl only 
li".;: :! tliini of this strain without permanei.t. derangement ofstriic- 
iiiri'. ami lOdd lbs., or ;{()(i() Uis. even, ii]>oii the square inch, is a 
lirfferalile pioporti(jn. ft has been found that the tenacity of 
Loilcr -plate increases with the temperature up to .^)7()'', at which 
jKiiiit the tenacity commences to diminish. At iVJ" the cohesive 
t'oi'ri' of a <(piare inch of section was r)t;,()00 lbs., at ^>H)^ it wi.s 



(]i;,f.nu lbs.; at 7 20*^, .'').■.,()( tO Jl»s. ; at lOaO", :r2,()(i() lbs ; at 12 1()^, 
•l'l,wn lbs. ; and at i:il7", \\00(i lbs. Strips of iron, when cut in tho 
tlircdion of the fibre, weit> found by experiment to bt; (I per cent. 
Ftidiiger than when cut across the grain. The strength f»f riveteil 

jiiiiits has also I n demonstrated by tearing them (lirecily asiin- 

(lir. Ill two different kinds of joints, double and single riveted, 
till! strength was found to be, in the ratio of the plate, as tho 
iiuiiiIhts 10(1, 7(1, and Tk;. 
.\>'siiiniiig the strength of tho plate to he 100 



Til 



tr.iJL'lh of a double riveted joint would 
allowing for I he adhesion of the surfaces of the platt 



be, after 



.\iid the strength of a single riveted joint. 



6t> 
These figures, representing the relative strengths of jilates and 
joints in vess(ds required to be steam and water tight, may be 
.«attl\ relied on as jierfectly correct. The accidental overheating 
of a boiler has been found to reduce the ultimate or maximum 
t'tri'iiglh of the plates from t!r>,()()(i to 4.'),0(K) lbs. |)er square inch of 
siition. The greatest caution slumld lie exercised against low 
^vate^ and incrnsfationti iu the boiler, tor, in that case, the plates 
r the furnace are apt to get n^d hot, and, when in this slate, they 



ovci 



:/ 



'liuvf lost tive-si.vlhs of their sirengtl), and there is then danger i.\f 



■^l^' 



^|. 



^1 *< 
•u •■■ 

-i ' 



s 



ff 



'■ i 



K 



i ' '1 ^^'' 



ii i 






:i i 



•i; 




S 



I 

I If 



0)0 



MACIlINlStS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



bnrsliiit,' tlio boiler, even .'it Hii' oomnion working; prossiifo, as a 
force of less tluiu one-sixth of the usiml slrenj^tli of thi- plitos will 
be foiiiid siinicieiit to <l») so. To let in a f^reat body of wad r on the 
ineaiidesceijt plates at siu'h a time only increases the duiiger bv 
Buddeniy ji^eiieratiiig a larj^e volume of iii^'dy tdastic sloarn. The 
j>roi)er way, during sucli eiuer{^eticy, is not to draw the lircs for 
then th'.'re is no time for that, but to '>|ien the furnace doors mid 
dash in a few bueketsfiil of water upon the lire, and blow off ibe 
steam as rapidly as possible. Kvery description of lioiler used in 
niiinnfactories or on board of steamers should be coiistnioted tu 
a bursting jiressure of 400 to 500 lbs. outhe s<iuare inch ; and loco- 
motive engine boilers, which are subject to much harder duty, to a 
bursting pressure of (iOO to 700 lbs. Such lioilers are usiiiillj- 
Worked at HO to 100 lbs. on the inch, but are fre(picutly worked up 
to a pressure of 120, an<l, when rising stt'ep grades, souieliiiu's even 
a3 high as 200 lbs to the scpiare incli. In a boiler subject to such 
an ruormous working jmssure, it re«juires the utmost '.ire and 
attention ou the part »)f the engineer to satisfy himself tliiu t lie Hut 
surfaces of the lire bo.\ are capable of resisting tluu ,..cssiiic, and 
that every j)art of the boiler is so nearly balaiiceil in it.-< iHiwi-isut 
n'sistance as that, when one j)art is at the point of rupture, every 
other part is at the point of yielding to the same uuitbriii ftir(e;fijr 
wo find that, taking a locomotive boiler of the usual size, 
even with a jiressure of loo ll)s. ou the scpiare inch, it reluiui 
an e.tpanding force within its interior of nearly 00,000 tons, which 
18 rather increased than diminished at a liigh speed. To show the 
strain upon a high-pressuri' boiler, .'50 feet long, (i lici diaiiH'h'r, 
having 2 centre ilues, each 2 feel '.'• inches diameter, wiirki.i;; at u 
pressure of fiO lbs. on the square incli, we have only to iiiulti|il) 
the numl)er of the sipiarc feet (d"surfjice, loi50, e.vposcd to prcBsiue. 
I)y ;{21, and we have the force of;i;U9 tons, whicli such a lioilerliiiii 
to sustain. To go farther, and estimate the pressure at t.'O llo. un 
the square inch, which a wi'll-(;oustructed boiler of this size will 
be(*r before it bursts, and v.e have the enormous force of 2'J,K7I, or 
nearly :{0,000 tons, bottled up ^sithin a cylindir 'M) feel long and 8 
feet (iiameter Boilers in actual use should be tested at least once 
a year, by forcing wati'r into them by the hand fecd-piiinp, until 
the safety-valve is lifte<l, which should be loaded witii at le;kit 
twice the working jiressure for the (>(casion. If a boiler will not 
stand this pressures it is not safe, and ilher its strength should he 
increased or the working pressure should be diminished. Iiiteimil 
flueg, such as contain tlie furnace in tin- interior of the boiler, 
should be kept as near as possible to the cylindrical form ; and, lu 
wrought iron will yield to a force tending to crush it about one- 
half of what wouhf tear it asunder, tlie flues should in in* ciiisi' 
exceed one-half the diameter of the boil-'r, with the same tliicknot;? 
of plates they may be considered equally safe with the other parti 
The force of compression being so dilferent from thai of teiK-iiuD, 
greater safety would be ensured if the diameter of th(! iiilcmii! 
flues \ver<! in the ratio 1 to 2J[ instead of 1 to i af the iliainclorof 
the boiler. As regards the relative size and >trength of tlues, it 
UJay be stated that a circular Hue 18 inches in diameter will roiijt 



ilAOIIINISTS, ENGINEERS, kC, RECEIPTS. 



223 



ddulilc till" i.rcs?uro of mio ;5 f»«(>t in dlinioter. Mill ownora, with 
jilt'iily of room and u liiuitod t'xi>eriuii(e witli steam power, would 
Jo \V!.'l! to dinpensc with boilers containing many Hues, theexuonse 
is (ri''':it'''" "'"^ ^''" durability lesd than where there is two or three 
only. Till! foura cauded by a large number of tiues is apf to (Jeceivff 
an incxiicrieiiccd engineer, causing him to believe that thero is 
])lenty uf water in the boiler when he tries the gauge cock.wbca 
tlii-n^ ii rciilly but very little, often causing an explosion. Some 
mill-owiicrs insert a fusible plug in the crown of the '■arn*C3 t»> 
iiidiciite danger from low water. As common lead melts ai 030", 
ft rivet (if this metal, 1 inch in diameter, inserted immediately over 
the lire pbu'c, will give due notice, so that relief may be obtained 



before flie internal pressure of the steam exceeds that of the resist- 
iiiL' power of the heatei 

lates, gc 
nii'tallii' disk, wliich jirotects the alloy of which the plate is com- 



ing 
ni 



jil jilates. In France, an extensive use is 
id»'; of fusible metal plates, generally covered by a perforated 



posod, and allows it to ooze through as soon as tlie steam has 
iitlaiueil tluf temperature necessary to insure the fusion of the plate, 
wliicli varies from 280'-' to 3J0''. The reader will find a number of 
siicli iilloys under the tabular view of alloys and their melting 
heats, imge 2i:{ Another method is the bursting plate, fixed in a 
fnuiie and attached to some convenient part of the upper side of 
1I113 lioilrr, of sueli thickness and ductility as to cause rupture when 
the pressure exceeds that on the safety valve, lint, beyond all ques- 
tion, constant uso should be made on all boilers of a good andreli- 
nl)lesyst4'm of steam gaug.'s, glass tubes, guage cocks, safety valves, 
ic. Hy means of th«» glass lubes allixed to the fronts of the boilers, 
tlio liei|f|it of tho water within the boiler is indicated at once, for 
the wiiirr will stand at the same heigiit in the tube that it suinds in 
the lioiler, communication being cslahlished with tho water below 
ami the steam above, by means of stop cocks. The guage cocks 
arc CDi'ks pcsnetrating the boiler at different heightj, and which, 
wiien opened, tell whether it is water or steam that exists at tho 
level at which they are respectively inserted. The average level 
of the water in the boiler should l)o above the centre of the tube, 
ami thf lowest of the guage cocks shouhl always run water, ana 
the highest blow steam The stea?n gauge indicates the pressure 
of steam by a hand oi> a dial, Jt sometimes happens that the glass 
tube },'ets choked up, and, to cornMit this, tho cocks connecting 
the tul)e with tho boiler should bo so constructed that the lube 
nmy In; blown through with the steam, to remove any obstacle that 
may interfere with lU use, By blowing olfthe boiler fVequently, a 
liir^'o amount of calcareous, and, on ocean vessels, saline matter, 
will be got rid of. which utherwise would cau.se trouble and per- 
plexity by forming incrustations and deposits on tho boiler, and 
which interferes most seriously with the transmission of tho heat 
from the boiler pl.vtes to the water. In many cases the idateg got red 
hot, causing the scale to crumble ; tho water thus suddenly admit- 
ted to the highly heated surface is at once transformed into highly 
nirefieil steam, and the boiler is bursted. Too much caution cannot 
be exercised to .see that the safety valve is properly loaded and 
that uo impediment exists to impair its free- action, and that all 
lli« other ayertures, v.alves, Ac, bidoufing tolheboilw are in goo^ 



f 



, t 

' if 




> . i r 



224 MA'rniNlSTS, ENOINEEBRj AC, nTlCETI-TK, 

•working order, l)Ut be ppecinlly partioulai llinl flio euro mikI man 
agi'iiu'iil ot'llii- wliok' is ciitruslcd to a |i('rs»in well rccdiinmiKi,.,] 
for cautiuTi ami iuli'llifrcnco in his jirof'cssion. No lacl is li(tttru<. 
cortaiiu'd llian that the f,'r<at majority of luiiltr explnsioiis Imu- 
resulted from the employment of i^Miorant Jind incapahic prac 
tilionerp, who, being utterly oblivious to ull sense of dangpr en 
their own account, cannot Ite expected to care for th };;ifrtv of 
others. For ccincrtl.s for Steam Hollers, kv., see page Isj. Fur'iin'- 
venting incruKhttiiiti, see paj,fe b>'.i, to Avliidi 1 will la re add tliat 
Irish moss is also a good preventivt^ of scale. Regardiiiff tlie y/oircr 
of boilers, it may be stated that a boiler 'M) feet long and i! ('<{t in 
dianieter,will afford :{() x ^ x ^.l\ x 2— 141.30s<piare feet ofsiirl'acc 
or steam for 14 horse-power, if 10 feet are asf-nnied f r one lioric' 
jtower. Two short boiler.s are preferable to one long one, uii ac 
count ot having more fire surface, — it being always necessary to 
have as mtich lire surface as possible to nnike the best nseoftlio 
find— as the hotter the surface is kept, the less find it takes to do ilic 
same amount of work. In some loi'alities, .fiudi as tlie liiinlicriiii: 
territory of New-Brunswick, it would be no economy to save fucf 
many of the mills driven by water .being ]nit to a heavy ex) ciise 
in removing and burning offtiie d<d)ris. When tiiere is a lartrc 
furnace it gives the fireman a liclter ciiam-e to keep the stcaiii reg;i. 
lar, for when clearing out one jiart of the funiaee, he can kcf]! a 
liot fire in the other. For each horse-power of the engine tlic c 
ought to be at least onepcpuire foot of grate, and three feet would lie 
better. In setting a boiler, arrangement should bo nnide to canv 
on cond)Ustion with the greatest i>ossible heat. This reijuircs '^mA 
non-conductors of heat, such as brick, with whii ii to surnn.iid the 
fire. If these bricks are of a white color, the eomhuslioii is more 
perfect than if of a dark color. The roof, as well as the sides-, of 
the furnace should be of wliite lire-brick. The liars of the fiiriiaci' 
should be IS or JO inches IkIow the boiler or crown of tiie furnace. 
The fire should be kej)t open and thin, und fi'e([uently and spar- 
ingly supi)lied, to allow the air to enter between tbe bars, tor tlic 
better consumption of the intlannnable ga.ses. T/ie liars sliouhi 
sbipc downward towiinl the back part, about 'lalf an inch to 
the foot. The ashes should be often cleain'd out, fiinl not sutrcrcd 
to accumulate, otherwise it will stop the draft, birn out the Imrs, 
and take more fuel. A crack in a boiler jilate rr.ay be cldsed l»y 
boring holes in the direction of the crack ami inserting riviLs 
Avith large heads, so as to cover uji the imperfction. If tiie tep 
of the furnace be bent down, from thelioiler having lieen accident- 
ally allowed to get short of water, it may lie set up again liy a screw- 
jack, a fire of woo<l having been prevmusly made I'eneath flic in- 
jured plate ; but it will in general be nearly as exp<'ditious a cmir-e 
to remove the j)late and introduce a new one, and the result will 
be more satisfactory. There is one object that requires very parti- 
cular attention, and wdncii must be of a certain size to jiroducetlie 
best effect, and that is the fine leading from the bidler to the cliim- 
Tiey, as well as the size and (devation of the chimney itself. 
Every chimney should be built several feet above the mill Imiist', 
so that there is no obstruction to break the air from the toft of tlie 
W^.xyar X'^ jtugiaud u fuctory chimney suitable for a Ju lio.rst- 



ilACHINlSTS, ENGINEERS, iC, RECEIPTS. 225 



I 'I 'J 

ii, 



iiiid man 

■I'lllIllciKlcii 
H licltlTU!!- 

sidiis have 
'uMc jirac 
•laugrr :ii 
f^itlc'ty of 
*-. Viir\\n'- 

!•" !Hl(l tliat 

' '•'• Irftin 
I of surface, 
!• (inc horse- 

• 'lit', on nc 
t'ccs^aiy to 

use of the 
cs t(i (h) tlic 

liiiiilM'rini,' 
() save fuel, 
'IV V ex I ciisp 
■ is a large 
stt'iini rpgii- 
oai) k('t'|i ft 
iij^inc tlic (' 
I'ct wituKi lie 
nlc to canT 
'([iiir(-s jf(M)tl 
iiiTiii.iiil the 
timi is iiiurc 
tiic sides, (if 
' the furnace 
the furnace. 
ly 1111(1 s]iar- 
biirs, for the 
liars siidiild 

iin inch t(i 
not sutreicd 
•lit the liars, 
le ''Idsetl liy 
■rtiiijf rivets 
. If the top 
on acciilent- 
ihy !i screw- 
ioalb the in- 
lousa course 
ic result will 
9 very jiarli- 
I ))i-(i(|uce the 
to the ehiin- 
niney itstdf. 

mill hoii«e, 
le top of the 
r a 20 horse- 



(lowcr hoilrr iscomtnonlv nia<le ahoiil 20 inclica gqimre inside, and 
HO feel hit,Mi, and tlitse uiinenHloMS are correct for consumption of 
If) llirf. coal per ljors»'-power per hour, a r.uninion consumption for 
factory eii;;ine.s. In the Dominion of C'anada and the United 
Slale!^. chinintys of plale iron, from 30 lo r)0 feel liigli, are in quito 
coininoa use liy owners of saw, and oilier mills, and tliey seem to 
iiiiswer every re<|uirement. 

('(j.\ii'(tsiTioN Koii CovKuiNO I»oii,KHS, kc. — lload scrapinfffl, free 
fniiu stdiies, 2 parts; cow manure, fratliered from the pasture,! 
part; mix ihiirouj4hly, ami add to each liarrowful of tho mixture 
c, llis (if tire clay ; ^ Ih. of llax shoves or chopped hay, and 4 oza. 
t('a-.eil hair. It must he well mixed and chojtpud ; Uien add a£. 
miiih water as will hrin^ it to tlr consistency of mortjir, — tlie more 
it is worked the tougher it is. It may either be put on with the 
trowel or dauhed on with the iiaiid, the lirst coat about 1 inch 
thick. When thoroughly dry, another, the same thickness, and so 
on, thiee indies is <piite enough, hut the more the heller. Let each 
(dul he scored like plaster, to prevent cracks, the last c(»at light 
and siiKKjtli, so as to receive jtaint, whitewash, &c. The boiler, or 
pipes, uiuil tirsl be brushed with a thin wash of the mixture to 
ensure a catch. 

Ui i.K I'ou Si/,K OF Cvt.TKDNU. — The rc(iuisite diameter of cyliiulcr 
fur a '-'i horse beam engine is '28 inches, and about 5 feet stroke. 
The noiniiKil horse-powtir of any sized cylinder can be found by 
the ftilliiwing formula; : For low pressure or beam engines, 
divide tlu) area of cylinder by "io, which will give the luimber of 
li(irM'-pow(!r. For lii^h jiressure horizontal «'ngines divide tin* 
area (it cylinder's diameter by llifi, which will give the number uf 
JKirse-powcr; iiududing all friction. 

SruoKK oi' K.soiMcs. -Tile stroke of ati engine varies accordinrv 
t(i circuiiu'tiinces, whic h the (h signer must take into consideratiuu„ 
iiiil liie g'U 'till rule is t, make the stroke aiioiit Iwic' the diameter 
ufihc ylind r The -diameter of the flywheel should be about 4 
times the stroke f th^ engine, and the rim should weigh about 
3 jwt, ]K'r hors" p~v.vr. 

IJai,.\.\('k Wiikkl. . — Every balance wheel should be speeded up 
so as to ru: t\vic> or three times as fast as the crank shaft it is 
intend. (1 t^ bala.'.ce. V/hen a balance wheel is applied in thitJ way 
it niak 3 the machine run a great deal more steadily, for- when 
tin; halauce wlieid i'» feared into the crank shaft, and runs two or 
thn; limes faster than the crank shaft, it forms a power of ts.^lf, 
wlHii going over the centre which propels the crank shaft until !t 
readies the «|iiarter where it again takes its power from the 
luachiiie .\lthough it takes an additional shaft and gears to ap[tly 

lialauci- wheel in this way, the .saving of metal in the bala'ico 

h el tally compensates f r the e.vtra labour, for, when a balanc 
uhe( 1 is speeded throe times as fast ii the crank shaft, it needs. 

•ily one third of the metal in it that il, would were it notspeeded 
lip .V di, and if balance wheels were' applied in this way gener- 
ally ii w >uht ir.ake all engines run f .r more .steadily. 

'i\: oT A (JiiTK.v SiiAKTivo. — This should be done by centretnpf, 
then :.v ii iut-' a 1. the, and scinare the ends uj» with wnat is called 
.'*.flci' doing this, take a j^iiecc oi chalk r^^^i try it ^ij 






M 






i. 



a I 



jy. 











:^2c 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &('.., RECEIPTS. 



several places, to fiml out where the worst crook- lue ; then if 
you have not a iimchiue for Kpriii^in^ shiiftiuir, Hiring il with a 
lever where tlie most crooic is, and coutiuuu tliia operation till t|,(j 
Hhutt is straight. 

Tlumnu rtiiAFTiNO. — To (lo this i)ropprly, two ehlpM glioiild 
always be ruu over the aiiaft, for the reason that it saves filiii^^und 
Jeavos the shaft truer and more roinid, and on shafts tliiis tiiriuMJ 
the time saved in liling more tlian com|»ensute3 for the tiiiic losljn 
turning. Before yon eoumienee you will put your feed hells or 
j.fear on a coarse feed ; turn oil' one a sixty-fourth of an inch 
larger than the size recpnred ; having turned olf lliis ciiip, com- 
mence the funshiug chip, and turn it small enough to have the 
pully wring on aljout an iiieli without liiiiig. This will leavi- it 
large enough to hie and iinish. If lliere are eoui)lings to go on a 
shaft, with holes smaller than the hoU'S in the pulleys, the ends of 
ihe shaft, where they lit on, siiould he turned down to a sixty-luurlh 
of an inch of the size required hefore any part (»f the slmft m 
iiuishcd ; that is, every part of a shaft should l)e turneil to wilhiu 
;i sixty-fourtli of an inch of the size reijuired before any purl 
if il lias the linish-chip taken olf. The reason for that is timl it 
leaves every part of the shaft perfeetly true, which would not 
be the case wore it done otherwise. Having done this, you will 
Hie the shaft so that the pulleys will slide on, and the c()U|ilings.so 
that they will drive on ; j)olish the shaft with a jiair of polisniug- 
idiunps an<l some emeiy and it is done. 

VVoiiiviN(J Steki, fou Tools. — In working .nteel for tools, great 
(•are should betaken to ham'iier all sides alike, lor if one .sidi; ij 
hammeretl more than another it will cause it to spring in liardon- 
Jng. Again, steel, when being hammer''d, should be healed as hot 
us it will stand, until iinishiiigand ;diould then be hr.minered uiitil 
almost blaek hot, tor the reason that it sets the grain finer, .uul 
gives the tool a better edge. The reason for Intatinj the steel m 
iiot while liammering is simply because it makes the steel tougluT 
when lianlened, and softer when annealed ; while, if it were 
"workoil at a low red heal, the continued pereussivo shocks of the 
liammer would so harden ,', as to make it .linost imi)ossibIe to 
nnnr-iil it, and at t'.c same time vender it brittli; when hardened. 

TKMPKin.vc: 1)01.'^ — Drawing ihe temper of tools is usually done 
5n ',v\h rcoal flaiy , and to draw the temper of a tool properiy it 
should be held in t'T: thickest part, or the part not re«piiring iiiiy 
temp'^r -owards th. fire^ and in ilio meantime, "hould be ol'leu 
wiped with a ])ieco of waste or rag, dipped in oil. The oil kee;KS 
the temper even, and ori'venls -t drawing more to on: ijlace timii 
another. And in drawing the temper of any tool it ■ilionld ho 
drawn very slowly otherwise it will ruu too far ere you are auaic 
of It, Lancet, blades and razors ijlioiiid be drawn to a straw 
color. Knife blades and chisels Jiould he drawn tt) a copper or 
almost red color. Plane irons, shaving knives and shoemakers 
knives the same temper; cold chis-lsand stone drills, should Ik 
drawn to a dark bluo. i'luted reamers should only be drawn to u 
straw color on he end, as they n:ivcr break elsewhere, nnd keep 
their size lonror by leaving rhe lips hard. Half round or tapering 
^•y^mers, also taps, dies, and drills, should ha drawn to a ;;lraw 



. Jit 



)t 



■ : then, i( 

it Willi A 

t'li till the 

>n slioultl 

liliiiKiiml 

iirt tiirui'd, 

iiiif lodiin 

<1 l)L"lls or 

uii inch 

ciii|i, coiii- 

havu the 

i k'iivi' it 

to K" t>ii li 

the vihIs of 

ixtv-ldiirth 

a- Hhiift 13 

<l to wiihiu 

I! any purl 

it is iiiiii it 

wowlil not 

is, you will 

'on|)!in};rf so 

t' ptjliriliing- 

tools, jxrctit 
out; siil(! \i 
)i ill iianlcn- 
loaifcl as hot 
iiiiicnMl iiiitil 
ill liiuT, ,111(1 
; the sti't'l pu 
iWx'\ tou^jlior 
', it' it wvn 
hocks of the 
HI possible to 
hiinlent'tl. 
iisii.'illy (lone 
I prupi'iiy it 
f'liiiritiy any 
nhl l)i; ol'it'ii 
rho oil kt't';i,s 
: phuH' tliiiu 
iL^shoiiltl be 
L»ii are uuarc 
I to 11 fjtraw 
> I), copper or 

shoemakers 
Is, shoulil 1)0 
i drawn to u 
ire, riud keep 
1 or tapering 
I lu a ;;lrtt'iV 



AlACniNISTS, ENGINEEUS, AC, RECKIPTS. 227 



joh)r, 



ad 



jh)r, Jijiios ami gauffC3. r.lso rnmmoii Intlic fool? noed 
tlrawiiiL', l»eiii<r tempered iiou/'h wlieii merely ' ardeiied. 

MAi.f-KAiiLK (y'AST IiioN. — Tho great secret of this sort of work J3 
the annealing: which if not done projicrly tho caatinw, uro J' no 
udc at all. The bedt mode is to take au iron ])an, say n. luot 
g(|Mare; imt in a layer of charcoal, then some of the ouatinj^a, then 
aiiolher layer. Wlien the pan I8 full cover it over with somo sand, 
to keep the charcoal roni biirniii;; away. Put on an Id piece of 
iron tor a lid to cover II, nut it in tliu annealing furnace, and m't 
the heat up ,iiilc«ulow and (.^radiially, taking care not lo get lliu 
licat lip tooipiick. After you have got it to tho proper .at, which 
iH this, the castingH must be red hot through ; keep it at ilits heat 
f,)r .■> or t) hours, then let your fire die grr.duiilly out, or, if you 
want to take some out and |)Ut moro in, tak) hem tu a corneraud 
hiiry them, pan and all, — Itt them lie there . J ])roperly cooled. 
Il(i,'ar(liiig tlie melting, procure not less thau *,wo good aorta of 
No. 2 pig iron, which you may mix with some j^ood ocrap if you 
choose ; the casting, melting, and moulding ar. coiiduclud iii the 
saaio luaniier as common cast-iron, only the metal being hard, 
when casting, you have to make properly constructed runners and 
ri.'^ers, or How gates, if the article is likely to sink, for you cannot 
]itiiu[i it well. 

Jai'Annino Castixos. — Clean them well frora the sand, tlicn dip 
them ill or paint them over with good boiled linseed oil : when 
luoilerately dry. heat them in an oven to Huch a temperature as 
will turn the oil black, without !)iirning. The stove shouM not be 
too hot at lirst, and the heat should be gradually raised to ."void 
blistering ; the slower the change in the oil is elfected tho setter 
will he the result. The castings, if smooth at lirst, will recciv": a 
liu<' black and polished surface bv this method. 
' ('oNCKii.Nixo OAWs. Haii.way Si'uiNds, &0. — When the saws r.ro 
wanteil to be rather liard, but little of the oil tempering composition 
|(iSee page 17(J) is Imrned oil"; when milder, a large jiortion ; and 
!'or a spring temiier the whole is allowed to burn away. Haws as 



jWi'll as springs appear to lose their ehusticity, after hardening and 
[tempering, from tlie reduction they undergo in grinding and po- 
lishing. Towards the conclusion of the manufacture, the elasticity 
of the .saw is restored principally by hammering, and partly over 
a I'lear coke fire to a straw color ; the tint is removed by very di- 
luted iimriatic acid, after which the saws are well washed in jtlaiu 
,\vater and dried. Spring manufacture includes the heaviest sjujci- 
mens of hardened steel works uncombined with iron; for example, 
liow-spriiigs for all kinds of vehicles, some intended for railway 
use, measure 3^ feet long, and weigh TjO lbs. each piece ; two of 
itliese are used in comiiination; other single springs are G feet long, 
JiiikI weigh 70 lbs. The princi[)le of these bow-springs will be iin- 
imcdiately seen by conceiving the common archery bow fixed liori- 
zoatally with its cord upwards ; the body of the carriage being at- 
tuilied to the cord sways both perpeni'icularly and sideways with 
perfect freedom. In hardening them they are heated by being 
(liawn backwards and forwards through an ordinary fire built 
hollow, and they are iinmer.sod in a trough of plain water. In tem- 
liering them they are heated until the black red is just visible ut 



$k 



U ' i! 







IMAGE EVALUATiON 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 





// 










1.0 



1.1 



1^128 

■so 
■it 



m 



12.2 



I; 
£f y£ 12.0 



I 



NJUb 



1.8 



L2I IN u 116 



J«*' 



^1 



^1 



vl 








<r 



Photographic 

Sciences 

Corporation 



23 WiST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. 145t.O 

(716) •72-4S03 




S. 





■^ 



i\ 





<^ 



4 













ifi 





tl2S MACHINISTS, tNOiNEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



night ; by daylight the heat is denoted by its making a piece of 
wood sparkle w hen rubbed un the spring, which is then allowed 
tc cool in the air. The metal is nine-sixteenths of an inch thick, 
and some consider five-eigths the limits to which steel will hardea 
properly, thai is sulHciently alike to serve as a spring. Their elas- 
ticity is tested far beyond their intended range. 

On Rubbeu Goods. — Ai many parties require to use rubber goods 
who are entirely ignorant of the cheap mixtures which are vended 
in large quantities, at enormous profits by manufacturers, I have 
thought proper in this place to irradiate the subject with a little 
"light" for the benent of those whom •' it may concern," and 
accordingly present the formulae for compounding the dififerent 
mixtures which enter into the composition of many articles sold 
quite txtensively as pure rubber goods, but which, owing to large 
adulterations, in many cases cost 75 per cent, less than the prices 
charged fur them. The first I shall present is for : . 

Light Buffer Springs. — Grind together clear Java rubber, 25 lbs. ; 
Para rubber, 5 lbs. ; common magnesia, 10 lbs. ; pure sulphur 25 
ozs. ; This is brown at first, but in a few days turns grey or white. 
and just sinks in water. Springs made from this compound, 4^ x 2| 
X 1, pressed to half an inch, showed 3^ tons on the dial. 

GitEY Paceing fob Marine Engines &c. — Grind together cleaned 
Java rubber, 5 lbs. ; Para rubber, 25 lbs. ; oxide of zinc, IG lbs. ; 
carbonate or magnesia, 6 lbs. ; Porcelain or Cornwall clay, 3 lbs. ; 
red lead, 2 lbs. ; pure sulphur, 30 ozs. It may be proper to state 
ithat good purified Java rubber might be substituted by engineers 
with good effect for Para rubber in the above and some other com- 
positions. 

Hag Packing for Valves, Bearing Springs &c. — This is made 
principally from the useless cuttings in the manufacture of India 
rubber coats, when the gum is run or spread on calico foundations. 
Proportions as follows : grind together useless scraps, 35 lbs. ; 
blacklead 18 lbs. ; Java gum, 16 lbs. ; yellow sulphur, 1 lb. 
t Composition for Suction Hose for Fire Engines, <!tc. — Grind to- 
gether Java rubber, 20 lbs. ; Para do. 10 lbs. ; white lead, 14 lbs. ; 
red lead, 14 lbs. ; yellov/ sulphur, 1^ lbs. This is spread upon flax 
cloth which weighs 10, 16, and 32 ozs. to the square yard. 

Common Black Packing. — Grind togetherj Java rubber, 15 lbs. ; 
Para do., 15 lbs, ; oxide of zinc, 15 lbs. ; China or Cornwall clay, 
15 lbs. ; yellow sulphur, 28 ozs. 

Common white Buffer Rings, &c. — Grind together Java rubber, 



30 lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 18 



lbs. ; carbonate 



of nuigncsia, 



ibs 



clean chalk or whiting, G lbs. ; flour of sulphur, 2 lbs. 

Vulcanite, or Ebonite. — If the amount of sulphur added to the 
prepared rubber amounts to 10 per cent, and the operation of vul- 
canizing is performed in close vessels, at a temperature exceeding 
300, or the heat required for Vulcanizing India Rubber as des- 
cribed under that head, which see^ an article will be produced 
known as vulcanite, or ebonite. It is a black, hard, elastic sub- 
stance, resembling horn in its texture and api)earance, and capable 
of taking a very high polish. It is of great use in the arts, and i'' 
largely manufactured lor making combs, door handles and hundreds 



rs. 



g a piece of 

lea allowed 

1 inch thick, 

■will harden 

Their elaa- 

■ubbor goods 
1 are vended 
irers, I have 
with a little 
ncern," and 
the different 
articles sold 
nng to large 
m the prices 

bber, 25 lbs. ; 
) sulphur 25 
rey or white, 
ountl, 4^ X 2| 
,1. 

!ther cleaned 
dnc, IG lbs. ; 
clay, 3 lbs. ; 
)per to state 
by engineers 
le other com- 

This is made 
ture of India 
foundations, 
-ps, 35 lbs. i 
,11b. 

c— Grind to- 
lead, 14 lbs. ; 
ad upon flax 
ard. 

3ber, 15 lbs. ; 
)rnwall clay, 

Java rubber, 
lesia, G ibs. , 

added to the 
itiou of vul- 
re exceeding 
BBEK as dcs- 
Lie produced 
elastic sub- 
and capable 
: arts, and is 
ud buudredii 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEU'TS. 



*> 



^'U 



of articles hitherto made in ivory or bone. Its electrical properties 
also are very great. 

Best Pure Spring, ok Washers. — Grind together Para gum, 30 
lbs. ; oxide of zinc, 5 lbs. ; carb. magnesia, 2 lbs. ; common chalk, 
3 lbs. ; Porcelain or Cornwall clay, 2 lbs. ; pure suli)hur, 30 oz. 

Companion Qijawty to above. — Para rubber, 30 lbs. ; oxide of 
lbs. ; Porcelain or Cornwall clay, 5 lbs. ; pure sulphur, 



Cloth for Waterproof Coats.— Grind together clean 



32 oz. 

" llYPO " 

Java gum, 30 lbs. ; lamp black, 5 lbs.; dry chalk or whiting, 11 
lbs. ; siilphuret of lead, 5 lbs. This composition is applied to 
waterproof garments. 

Tk-mperino Locomotive Tires. — This is quite ponderous work, as 
the tires of the eight foot wheels weigh about 10 cwt. and consist of 
about one-third steel. The materials for the tires are first swaged se- 
parately, and then welded together under the heavy hammer at the 
steel works, after which they are bent to the circle, welded, and 
turned to certain gauges. The tire is now heatod to redness in a cir- 
culiir furnace ; during the time it is getting hot, the iron wheel, 
])reviously turned to the right diameter, is bolted down upon a 
face-plate, the tire expands with the heat, and when at a cherry red, 
it is dropi)ed over the whe' i, for which it was previously too small, 
and is also hastily bolted down to the surface plate. The whole 
load is quickly immersed by a swing crane into a tank of water 
aljout five feet deep, and hauled up ami down until nearly cold • 
the steel tires are not afterwards tempered. The spokes are forged 
out of flat-bars with T formed heads, these are arranged radially 
in llio founder's mould whilst the cast-iron centre is poured around 
tiieiu, the ends of the T heads are then welded together to consti- 
tute the periphery of the wheel or inner tire, and little wedge-form 
pieces are inserted where there is any deficiency of iron. The wheel 
IS then chucked on a lathe, bored and turned on the* edge, not cy- 
lindrically, but like the meeting of two cones, and about one 
quarter of an inch higher in the middle than the two edges. The 
compound tire is turned to the corresponding form, and conse- 
quently, larger within or under cut, so that the shrinking secures 
the tire without the possibility of obliquity or derangement, and 
no rivets are required. It sometimes happens that the tire breaks 
in shrinking wlien by mismauagemeut tUe diameter of the wheel 
is in excess. 

.Mam'facturing and Repairinq Anvils. — The common anvil is 
usually made of seven pieces : 1, the core, or body ; 2, 3, 4, 5j the 
four corner pieces, which serve to enlarge its base; G, the project- 
ing end, which has a square hole for tho reception of the tail or 
shank of a chisel on which iron bars may bo cut through, and 7, 
the boak, or horizontal concJ, round which rods or slips of metal 
may be turned in a circular form, as in making rings. These 
si.x pieces are welded separately to the first or core, and then ham- 
mered into a unifbrra body. In manufacturing large anvils two 
hearths are needed, in order to bring each of the two pieces to be 
Avelded to a jiroper heat by itself, and several men are employed in 
working them together briskly in the welding state, by heavy 
swiu|i' hummers. The steel facing is applied by welding in the 



^ d 



'f. !i! 



iV 





230 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &.C., RECEIPTS. 



1:1: 



same rt mncf} powdered borax with sal ammoniac (1 part to 10 
parts of boiax) being used as a flux. The anvil is then heated to 
a cherry red, and plunged into cold water, a running stream being 
better than a pool or cistern, the rapid formation ot steam at the 
sides of the metal preventing the free access of the water for the 
removal of the heat with the required expedition. In some cases a 
stream of water is contrived to descend from a cistern above ou 
the part to be chilled, which is sure to render it very hard. The 
facing should not be too thick a plate, for when such, it is apt to 
crack in the hardening. It is somewhat dangerous to stand near 
such works at the time, as when the anvil face is not perfectly 
welded, it sometimes, in part, flies off with great violence and a 
loud report. In the case of broken anvils the repairs will have to 
be made in accordance with the above description. In finishing 
off the face, it is smoothed upon a grind.5tone, and, for lino work, 
polished with emery and crocup. 

Hardening Axletrees and Boxes.— The method now used in 
the manufacture of Murphy's axletrees is to use wrought iron and 
weld two pieces of steel into the lower side, where they rest upon 
the wheels and sustain the load. The work is heated in an open 
forge fire, in the ordinary way, and when it is removed, a mixture, 
principally prussiate of potash is laid upon the steel ; the axletree 
js then immediately immersed in water, and additional water is 
allowed to fall upon it from a cistern. The steel is considered to 
be very materially hardened by the treatment, and the iron around 
ihe same is also partially hardened. One very good way to cliill 
axletree boxes is to mould from wooden patterns on sand, and cast 
them upon an iron core which has the effect of making tliem very 
hard. To form the annular recess for oil, a ring of sand, made in 
an appropriate core-box, is slipped upon the iron mandril, and is 
left behind when the latter is driven out of the casting. 

To Purify Zinc. — Pure zinc may be obtained by precipitating its 
suluhate by an alkali, mixing the oxide thus produced with char- 
coal powder, and exposing the mixture to a bright red heat in a 
covered crucible in whch the pure meial will be found as a button 
at the bottom when cold. 

To Galvanize Cast-Iuon THRouan and through. — To 50 lbs. 
melted iron add 1 lb. pulverized zinc, chemically pure. Directions, 
scatter the zinc powder well over the ladle, then catch the iron and 
pour at once. It is better, just before pouring, to stir the iron well, 
m order that a more complete union of the metals may take 
place. 

To Chill Cast Iron very hard. — Use a liquid made as follows ; 
soft water, 10 gallons; salt, 1 peck ; oil vitriol, A pt ; saltpetre, i lb. ; 
prussiate of potash, i lb. ; cyanide of potash, | lb. Heat the iron a 
cherry red and dip as usual, and if wanted harder repeat the pro- 
cess. 

Another to harden Cast Iron.— Salt, 2 lbs.; saltpetre, J Ib.j roche 
alum, Jib.; ammonia,4oz3. salts of tartar, 4 ozs.; pulverize all toge- 
ther and incorporate throughly, use by powdering all over the iron 
while it is hot, then plunging it in cold water. 

1 To MAKE Borax. — Alum, 2 ozs. ; dilute with water ; and mix wltli 

2 ozs. potash, boil in a pot half an hour over a gentle nre, take it 



rs. 

1 part to 10 
n heated to 
iream being 
team at the 
ater for the 
ornc cases a 
1 above on 
liard. The 
, itiaapt to 

stand near 
t perfectly 
lence and a 
v'lU liave to 
n finishing 

fine work, 

lOw used in 
ht iron and 
}[ rest upon 
in an open 
I, a mixture, 
the axletree 
lal water is 
)nsidered to 
iron around 
vay to chill 
id, and cast 
^ them very 
nd, made in 
adril, anu is 

ipitatinp its 
I with char- 
id heat ill a 
as a button 

-To 50 lbs. 
Directions, 
the iron and 
e iron well, 
Is may take 

as follows ; 
petre, ^ lb. ; 
t the iron a 
lat the pro- 

^ lb.; roche 
ze all toge- 
ver the iron 



.dn 
nre 



mix with 
take it 



MACHINISTS ENGINEERS, &C,, RECEIl*TS. 2!3l 

oiu of the water> add 2 ozs. gem salt in powder, as much of alkal- 
ine sal.. . lbs., honey, and 1 of cow's milk, mix all together, set it 
in the sun for 3 days and the borax is ready for use. This will go 
twice as far in a ol; ;k3mith'3 shop as comm a borax. 

WEiiDi.Na Cast Steel. — Silver sand 2 lbs. plaster of Paris, 1 lb ; 
mix thoroughly. Heat your article and dust it with the above, place 
it in the fire again until you get a red heat and it will weld„ 

Uesj'iratob. — An excellent respirator may be made of a thick 
sheet of carded cotton wool placed between two pieces of muslia, 
Unequalled for arresting dust, steel particles &c. 
Annealing Stell. — For small pieces of steel, take a piece of gas 
pipo 2 or 3 inches in diameter, and put the pieces in it, first heat- 
ing one end of the pipe, and drawing it together, leaving the other 
cud open to look into. When the pieces are of a cherry redj cov,r 
tiie firu with saw dust, use a charcoal fire, and leave the steolm ov*:r 
night. 

To DRILL Hardened Steel. — Cover your steel with melted beeswax: 
when coated andcold make a hole in the wax with a line pointed aee^ 
die crother article the size of hole you require, put a drop I st»'ong 
nivri'j acid upon it, after an hour rinse off, and apply again, H will 
gradually eat through. 

To Prevent Iron Rusting. — Give it a coat of linseed oil and 
whiting, mixed together in the form of a paste. It is easily removed 
and will preserve iroa from rusting for years. 

To Cast Brass solid. — The metal should not be run an;' hotter 
than is necessary to insure sharp castings The most probable cause 
of the honey combings o!^ castings is that the air vannot get out 
of the yf'dy j and there ught to be proper vents mad fc it from 
tlic highes'. parts of thu mould , thv. metal shou.d b run in near 
or at the bottom of the mould. 1/ about i )b. o*"! ad b added to jv& 
ry IG lbs. of old brass, wh n ju t . C the melting polnt,solid (rood bras 
ses will be the result, in melting old brass, the -inc. c: lead^con- 
tained in it (when fluid) oxidizes ireely, consequently the propor- 
tions of the metal are altered, and re.^uir .n additi n imilar to 
the above. If the brass has not been re-cast little )..s3lead will 
do, but if re-cast several times it may cak*^ the full quantity. 

To Recover the Tin from Old Britannia.— Melt the metal, and 
while hot sprinkle sulphur over it ; and stir it up for a short time, 
this burns the other metals out of the tin, which may then be used 
for any purpose desired. 

Glue for Labelling on Metals. — Boiling water, I qt : pulver- 
ized borax, 2 ozs. ;. gum shellac, 4 ozs. Boil till dissolved Used for 
attaching labels to metals, or it will do to write inscriptions with, 
and dust or dab on a little bronze powder over it, varnishing over 
the bronze. 

Russia Sheet Iron. — Russia sheet iron is, in the first instance, 
a very pur^ article, rendered 3xceedingly tough and flexible by 
refining ana annealing. Its bright, glossy surface :s partially a 
silicate, and partially an rxide of iron, and is produced by passing 
the hot sheet, moistened with a solution of >,ood-ashes, througu 
polish:d teel rollerS: 

CoMPOHiTE Iron Railings. — Th:, process by which this light, 
elegant and cheap fabric is manufactured, is as follows : — Rods 



if-' ! 

!| It 



'if, 



■■H'i ' 

;i • : 






*, 



232 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS; &C., RECEIPTS. 



■ 



V \'\ 



^ 




and bars of •wronght-irnn are cut to the lengths desired fbr the 
l)attern, and subjected to a process called crimping, by which they 
are bent to the desired shai)e. These rods are then laid in the form 
of the design, and cast-iron moulds are affixed at those points 
whore a connection is desired ; the moulds are then filled witli 
melted metal, and immediately you have a complete railing ol 
beautiful design. Casting in iron moulds has this great advantiige 
over the old sand moulding, it does not require any time for cool- 
ing, as tlic metal is no sooner run than the moulds may be removed 
and used again immediately on another section of the work ; and 
besides, it is so much more easily effected. By the combination of 
wrought and cast-iron in this process, the most curious and com- 
plex designs may be produced with great rapidity and cheap- 
ness. 

Vo\ Bibka's Alloy for Medals. — Bismuth, 27.27 parts; lead, 
59.0'J parts ; tin, 13. (J4 parts. If tlie cast objects be bitten wltii dUute 
nitric acid, washed with water, and rubbed with a woollen rag, the 
elevated spots become bright while the sunken portions are dull, 
and the casting acquires a da.-k gray appearance, with an antique 
lustre. Without biting, the ^.olor is light-gray. 

New Sheathing Metal. — This alloy is made by melting 2^ parts 
of copper in one crucible, in another 9 parts of zinc, 87 of lead, 1 
part of mercury, and ^ part of bismuth, then mixing the contents 
of both crucibles, covering the surface with charcoal dust, and 
stirring well till all are incorporated. It is stated that the mer- 
cury in this alloy protects both the zinc and copper from the action 
of sea-water. The contents of the crucible are run into ingots, and 
rolled into sheets. 

Ikon Tube Manufacture. — In the present method of manufac- 
turing the patent welded tube, the end of the skelp is bent to the 
circular form, its entire length is raised to the welding heat in an 
appropriate furnace, and, as it leaves the furnace almost at the 
point of the fusion, it is dragged by the chain of a draw-bench, 
after the manner of wire, through a pair of tongs with two bell- 
shaped jaws ; these are opened at the time of introducing the end 
of a skelp, which is welded without the agency of a mandril. By 
this ingenious arrangement wrought iron tubes may be made from 
the diameter of 6 inches internally and about 1-8 to 3-8 of an inch 
thick, to as small as 1-4 of an inch diameter and I- 10 bore, and so 
admirably is the joining effecte I in thoso of the best description 
that ther will withstand the greatest pressure of water, steam or 
gas to which they have been subjected, and they admit of being 
bent both in the heated and cold state, almost with impunity. 
Sometimes the tubes are made one upon the other when great 
thickness is required ; but those stout pipes, and those larger than 
3 inches, are but seldom required. The wrought iron tubes of iiy- 
drostatic presses, which measure about ^ an inch internally, and | 
to 3-8 of an inch thick in the metal, are frequently subjected to a 
pressure of four tons on each square inch. 

Brass Tubes. — Brass or other tubes are formed of rolled metal 
which is cut to the desired width by means of revolving discs ; in 
tlie large sizes of tubes, the metal is partially curved in its length 
by meuas of a pair of rolls, when ia this condition it is pus;je(l 



n 



rs. 

»4red fbr the 
y which they 

I in the form 
those jioints 
n filled with 
te railing of 
It advantage 
ime for cool- 
Y be removed 

work ; and, 
uibination of 
)us and com- 

and cheap- 
parts ; lead, 

II witli dilute 
oUen rag, tbe 
ons are dull, 
:h an antique 

ting 2.} parts 
87 of lead, 1 
t)ie contents 
•al dust, and 
liat the mer- 
:)m tlie action 
,0 ingots, and 

of manufac- 
is bent to the 
ng heat in an 
Imoat at the 

draw-bench, 
rith two bell- 
icing the end 
mandril. By 
)e made from 
!-8 of an inch 
I bore, and so 
t description 
,ter. steam or 
Imit of being 
th impunity. 

when great 
e larger than 

tubes of hy- 
rnally, and \ 
ubiected to a 

rolled metal 

ing discs ; in 

in its length 

it is pu33od 



MACHINISTS,' ENOTNKERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 233 

through a steel hole or a die, a plug being held in such a position 
as allows the metal to pass between it and the interior of the hole. 
Oil is uricd to lubricate the metal, the motion is communicated by 
power, the drawing apparatus being a pair of huge nippers, which 
holds the brass, and is attached to a chain and revolves round a 
ivindlass or cylinder. The tube in its unsoldered state is annealedj 
bound round at intervals of a few inches with iron wire, and solder 
and borax applied along the seam. The operation of soldering is 
completed by passing the tube through an air stove, heated with 
"cokes" or ''breezes" which melts the solder, and unites the two 
eyes of the metal, and forms a perfect tube ; it is then immersed in 
a solution of sulphuric acid, to remove scaly deposits on its sur- 
face, the wire and extra solder having been previously removed r it 
is then drawn through a "finishing hole plate" when the tube id 
completed. 

Mandril drawn tubes are drawn upon a very accurately turned 
steel mandril, by this means the internal diameter is rendered 
smooth. The tubes drawn by this process are well adapted for 
telescopes, syringes, small pump cylinders, «&c. The brass tubes • 
for the boilers of locomotive engines are now made by casting and 
drawing without being soldered, and some of them are drawn taper • 
in their thickness. Tubes from l-IO inch internal diameter and 3 
or ten inches long, up to those of two or three inches diameter and 
4 or 5 feet long, are arawn vertically by means of a stronsr chain 
wound on a barrel by wheels and pinions, as in crane. In Donkin's 
tube drawing machine, which is applicable to making tubes, or 
rather cylinders, for paper-making and other machinery, as large 
as '20^ inches diameter, and 6^ feet long, a vertical screw is used, 
the nut of which is turned round by toothed wheels driven by six 
men at a windlass. 

The fluted tubes of pencil cases are drawn through ornamental 
plates, with elevations and depressions corresponding to the impres- 
sions loft on the tube. 

Damascus Twist and Stub-Twibt Gun-Barrels. — The twisted 
barrels are made out of long ribbands of iron, wound 3p'''ally 
around a mandril, and welded on their edges by jumping them on 
the ground, or rather on an anvil embedded therein. The plain 
stub barrels are made in this manner, from iron manufactured from 
a bundle of stub-nails, welded together, and drawn out into rib- 
hands, to insure the possession of a material most thoroughly and 
intimately worked. The Damascus barrels are made from a mix- 
ture of stub-nails and clippings of stee! in given proportions, pud- 
dled together, made into a bloom, and subsequently passed through 
all the stages of the manufacture of iron, in order to obtain an iron 
tliat shall be of an unequal quality and hardness, and therefore 
display diilerent colors and markings when oxidized or browned. 
Other twisted barrels are made in the like manner, except that the 
bars to form the ribbands aro twisted whilst red hot, like ropes, 
some to the right, others to the left, and which are sometimes lami^ 
nated together for greater diversity. They are subsequently again 
drawn into the ribbands and wound upon the mandril, and fre- 
quently two or three ditfercntly prepared pieces are placed side by 
side to form the complex ..nd ornamental figures for the barrels oj| 



m: 



' t 






I 



m 



m 






-1- 



t: 



'I 



Ti' 



234 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



fowling-])icce3, described as atub'twist^ reire-ttoiM^ Damnxcm-twUi 
&c. Soiiietiiiies Diiniascus gun-barrels are formed by arranging 
twenty-five thin bars of iron and mild steel in alternate layers 
welding the whole together, drawing it down small, twisting it 
like a rope, and again welding three such ropes, for the formation 
of the ribband, which is then spirally twisted to form a barrel, that 
exhibits, when finished and acted upon by acids, a diversified 
laminated appearance, resembling, when properly managed, an 
ostrich feather. 

MANUFACTHRiNoCnAiNg. — For this purpose the iron is cut off 
with a plain chamfer, as from the annular form of the links their 
extremities cannot slide asunder when struck. Every succeeding 
link is bent, introduced, and finally welded. In some of these 
welded chains the links are no more than J an inch long, and 
the iron wire \ inch diameter. These are made with great dexterity 
by a man and a boy, at a small fire. The curbed chains are welded 
in the ordinary way and twisted afterwards, a few links being 
made red-hot at a time for the purpose. The massive cable chains 
are made much in the same manner, although partly by aid of 
machinery. The bar of iron, now one, one and a half, or even 
jlwo inches in diameter, is heated, and the scarf is made as a plain 
chamfer, by a cutting machine ; the link is then formed by insert- 
ing the edge of the heated bar within a loop in the edge of ni oval 
klisk, which may be compared to a chuck fixed oh the end of a 
{lathe mandril. The disk is put in gear »by the steam engine; it 
makes exactly one revolution and throws itself out of motion. This 
bends the heated extremity of the iron into an oval figure. After- 
[wards it is detached from the rod with a chamfered cut by the ent- 
iling machine, which, at one stroke, makes the second scarf of the 
detached link, and tne first of that next to be curled up. The link 
is now threaded to the extremity of the chain, closed together and 
jtransferred to the fire, the loose end being carried by a traverse 
crane. When the link is at the proper heat, it is returned to tiie 
anvil, welded, and dressed off between top and bottom tools, after 
iwh'ch the cast iron transverse stay is inserted, and the link having 
been closed upon the stay, the routine is recommenced. The work 
commonly requires three men, and the scarf is placed at the side 
of the oval linkj and flat way through the same. In similar chains 
made by hand it is, perhaps, more customary to weld the link at 
the croivn, or small end. 

Button Manufacture. — Metal buttons are formed of an inferior 
kind of brass, pewter, or other metallic compositions. For button 
metal, see a variety of alloys on pages 191 and 193. Buttons with 
shanks are usually made of these compositions, which is supplied 
to the manufacturers in sheets of the required thickness. By means 
of fly presses and punches, circular disks called blanks, are cut out 
of these sheets. This is mostly performed by females, who can 
furnish about 30 blanks per minute, or 12 gross per hour. Hand 
punching is the general mode of cutting out blanks, but more 
complicated machines, which dut out 8 or 10 blanks at a time, are 
in use. After being punched, the edges of the blanks are very 
sharp, and require to be smoothed and rotmded. Their surfaces 
iire then planished oa the face by placing them separately in a die 



'S. 



'MSCHS.twist, 

f arranging 

[late layers, 
twisting it 

e formation 
barrel, that 
diversified, 

lanaged, an 

is cut off 
links their 
succeeding 
Ime of these 
long, and 
lat dexterity 
are welded 
links being 
caljle chains 
y by aid of 
alf, or even 
le as a plain 
id by irisert- 
^e of ,"11 ovtil 
fie eud of a 
n enfjine; it 
motion. This 
ure. After- 
It by the cut- 
scarf of the 
ip. The link 
together and 
»y a traverse 
limed to the 
Q tools, after 
slink having 
1. The work 
1 at the side 
milar chains 
: the link at 

f an inferior 
For button 
buttons with 
1 is supplied 
3. By means 
, are cut out 
Bs, who can 
lour. Hand 
s, but more 
t a time, are 
ks are very 
leir surfaces 
tel^ in a die 



Mi-OHINISTS EIIOINEERS, ,':C., RECEIPTS. 



m 



Mndor a small statL/i, and allowing thoni to receive a smr.rt blo\r 
from a polished steel hsimmor. In this "tate they "ro ready to 
receive the shanks or small rnutal loops by r/hicbilicy ire attached 
to the dress. They rre made by a machine in ylich a cci) of wire 
is gradually advanced towards a p&ir cf '(hears 'vJ-'.ich cuts off short 
pieces. A metal finger' then prossos L.gaia'it the middle of oach 
piece, first bending it end then pressing it .nto a vice, when it '.r 
compressed so as to form a loop; a hammer then strikes the twr 
ends, spre.'^ding them into a flat ourface, and the shank is pushed 
out of the machine read^ for use The shL nks are attached to tiie 
blanks by women, with iron '.virc, solder and rosin. They are then 
put into an oven, and, vhen firmly united, f^rn* plain buttons. If 
a crest or inscription ?a wanted, it is placed in a Vie and stamped. 
Buttons are gilded by yold i^malgam, l)y being put into an earthen 
jiftu wi*h the proper quantity of gold to (i.ovcr them, amalgamated 
with mercury in the follo^v.ng manner: tl'.e ^old is put into an 
iron ladle in thin strijjs, und a email quantity of mercury, say 1 
part of mercury to 8 of gold, added to it, the ladle is held over 
the fire till the gold and mercury tore perfectly united. This amal- 
gam being put into the pan with the buttons, rs much aquafortis. 
diluted with water, as will wet them oil over, is thrown in, and 
they are stirred up with a brush till the acid, by its afiinity to the 
copper in the buttons, carries the amalgam to overy pnrt o^ their 
surface, giving it the appearance of silver ; this d»^;ne, the acid is 
washed away with clean water. This is called the quicking pro^ 
cess. In di-ying off, the i)an of buttons is heated by a charcnnl fire 
expelling the mercury in the form of a vapor, which, under tho 
improved system, is conducted into an oblong iro»A flue or gallery, 
gently sloped downwards, having at its end a r^mtll ''urtical tube' 
dijtped into a jvaler ci&tern, for condensing the mercury, end a 
large vertical pipe for promoting the draught cf the products of 
the combustion. The gold thus deposited in an exceedingly thin 
film upon the buttons, presents a dull yeUow col:r, and must uov/ 
be burnished; this is effected by a piece of hematit Sj.^r blocdctone, 
fixed on a handle and applied to the button, as it le .olv :s in tho 
lathe. 

CuTLEHY Manupactdre. — There arc three kinds cf ctecl employed 
iu manufacture of different articles of cutlery, common steel, shear 
steel, and cast steel. All edge tools which require to be tenacious 
without being very hard, are made of shear ateel. The best scinrjors, 
razors, penknives, &c., are made from cast steel, vhich is able to 
take a very fine polish, common steel is only uoed in making cheep 
ar^ifles of cut;ery. In making good table-knivet, nhear. steel und 
casi steal a'C gcneraliy preferred. In the ordinary ucthod o mr,k- 
ing kflives, 'be bxades ^.xl cut out of a sfieet of steel, and the backs, 
fahou derq 8:cd tang's o; wrou,^ht iron, are attached to the steel 
bln.c by wlainpj 1* th& forge. Thf knife is then ground to tho 
prore: ^ape, an^ the black nclished and hardened. The fork 
manr.faclur* is a Jistmc* branch of industry, and the manutactr.rerr: 
Oi laikt kniv'jS j^^neraTlY buy their forks from the fork makers 
reacy hd be tu* into their htindl' s. In making ti:ible knivos, t\.-c: 
iDen r, e ;jf»nerall.y employed ; one it c.lled tho foreman, or maker, 
. . ■ C the o'lhei the striker Penknives are usually forged by a single 



i ! 




Ki;". 



i<l 



™« .'wuiwwiiu.^sRg^a-*' 



ijL:ili;l 



230 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RE0EIPT.«I. 



h II 



hand, with hamtier and anvil simply ; they are hardened hy heat- 
injj the bhuK'S rod-hot, and dippinj^ thcni into Wiiior tip to the 
shunldcr. Razors aro also hardened in the same miuiner. The 
grinding and polishing of cutlery are generally performed by uia- 
chinery, the business of the grinders is divided into grinding 
glazing and polishing. Grinding is performed upon stones of va- 
rious dimensions. Those articles which require temper being giound 
on wet stones. Glazing is a process by which lustre is given to 
cutlery ; it is performed with a glazier, consisting of a circular 
piece of wood, sometimes covered wfth leather, or an alloy of leaj 
and tin ; it is lixed on an axis like a grindstone. The ijolishiug pro- 
cess is the last, and is j)erformed on a similar piece of wood cuver- 
ed with butf leather. Only articles of cast steel which have been 
hardened and tempered are subjected to this operation. 

Damaskekninu. — This is the art, now in a great measure lost, of 
producing a v/atered or wavv ap(»earance o i steel sword-blaiics, 
armour, <i;c., or of inlayingand encrusting steel with gold and silver, 
originally practised at Damascus. Various methods of damiiskeen- 
ing were practised, but the most common seem to hav<? been those 
of welding two different kinds of steel, or steel and iron, together, 
or of cutting lines on the surface of the steel and filling them witti 
gold or silver, which was either forced into the incised lines and 
brought to a level with the surface of the steel, or remained in 
relief above it. When the former method was used, a light pattern, 
generally in many lines, wa3 produced on a dark ground, or vice 
versa, and tlje junction of the metals caused the pattern to "un 
through the entire thicknfess of the blade, so that it could not be 
obliterated even by grinding. 

Die Sinking. When a die is required for a coin or medals, the 
engraver takes a piece of soft steel of suitable dimensions, generally 
3 or 4 inches in length, and about an inch greater in diameter 
than the coin or other article required, on this he hollows out the 
exact form of the desired impression by cutting away the steel by 
degrees, with small, well-tempered, case-hardened tools. As soon as 
this work is thoroughly accomplished the steel is hardened by being 
heated red-hot in a crucible with charcoal and oil or bone-dust, and 
then plunged into cold water. When a great number of coins ' .'one 
sort are required, the original die is termed the matrix, and copies 
are made from it by taking impressions from it in soft steel, which 
is in relief, and is called the puncheon, and from which, when it 
has been hardened, other di'js are produced by pressure exactly 
similar to the matrix, and in intaglio, which are case-hardened in 
their turn before they are fit to transmit an impression to any 
metal used for money. The metal used for our coinage, whether 
gold, silver, copper, or bronze is stamped in a Cold and solid state; 
but medals and casts can also be produced by a method called 
casting en cliche, in which the metal is used in a soft state. i"'or 
this purpose an alloy is used, consisting of J lead, i tin, and J 
bismuth, which fuses readily at the boiling point, 212° Fah. When 
the metal is soft, resembling paste in con'sistency, the die is placed 
upon it, and the impression produced by a smart blow from a 
mallet; the surface of the" metal sets instantly, from coming into 
^ii»u,ct with the cold die, and thus readily retains the form that 



' I'l 



I'TM. 



3IA0inMfiTS, ENGINEERS, &n., REOEIPTH. 






enod hy heat- 

er up to. the 

niliiiier. The 

)rmc(l byma- 

tito grinding, 

1 stones of va- 

being jTround 

ro id {five 11 to 

of a circular 

alloy of lead 

)oIi,slii[ig pro- 

f \v(Joil cuver- 

icU have been 

n. 

easure lost, of 
sword -blades, 
old and silver, 
jf daniaskeen- 
ivff been those 
ron, together, 
ing them with 
sed lines and 
r remained in 
light pattern, 
jround, or vice 
pattern to -un 
t could not be 

or medals, the 
ions, generally 
r in diameter 
ollows out the 
ly the steel by 
)ls. As soon as 
ened by being 
)one-dust, and 
)f coins ' .'one 
ix, and copies 
ft steel, which 
vhich, when it 
issurc exactly 
le-hardened in 
ossion to any 
nage, whether 
ad solid state; 
method called 
ft state, j'or 
il, i tin, and J 
2° Fah. When 
e die is jjlaced 
blow from a 
a coming into 
tlie form that 



has been given to it. Copies of medals may be readily made in this 
wav but ench fiicc will be obtained in a separate piece, and the.^e 
must be joined to give representations of the coin in a complete 
f(irm. Onamcntal work is produced in thin metal for gasfitting, 
cornices, parts of cruet-stands, trays, &c., by means of a pair of 
dies on one of which the pattern is formed in relief, and on the other 
in infat/lio, the metal being placed between them, and brought into 
the desired shape by pressure. Dies are also made in metal for 
forming articles in gutta-percha and leather, and producing 
embossed figures on the cloth covers of books, as well us on card- 
board, paper, &c. 

Steelplatb Enoravino. As regards steelplate engraving it has 
proved immensely su[)erior to the old copperplate system. A soft 
gtcelplato is first engraved with the required subject in the most 
finished style of art, cither by hand or mechanically, or the two com- 
bined, and" the plate is then hardened ; a softened steel cylinder is 
then rolled over the hardened plate, with great pressure by powerful 
machinery, until the engraved impression appears in relief, — the 
hollow lines of the origmal becoming ridges upon the cylinder, 
the roller is re-converted to the condition of ordinary stcol, and 
hflrdened, after which it serves for returning the impression to any 
number of decarbonized plates, every one of which becomes abso- 
lutely a counterpart of the original, and every plate, when hardened, 
would yield the enormous number of 150,000 impressions, without 
any perceptible difference between the first and the last. In one 
instance, from one engraving of the Queen's head on the postage 
gtamp, over 6000 plates were produced from the original, and 
plates for bank-note printing are multiplied in the same way. Great 
caution mustbe used in the various processes of annealing and hard- 
ening, as only slight carelessness would result in ruining the most 
costly plates. The method in -use in trie bank of England is as 
follows : the work to be hardened is enclosed in a wronght-ironbox 
with a loose cover, a false bottom, and with three ears projecting 
from its surface about midway; the steel is surrounded on all sides 
with carbon from leather, driven in hard, and the cover and bottom 
are carefully luted with moist clay, thus prepared, the case is placed 
in the vertical position, in a bridge fixed across a great tub, which 
is then filled with water almost to touch the fiat bottom of the case ; 
the latter is now heated in the furnace as quickly as will allow the 
uniform penetration of the heat. When sufficiently hot, it is removed 
to its i»fate in the hardening tub, the cover of the iron box is 
removed, and the neck or gudgeon of the cylinder is grasped, 
benmtli the sarfac.i: of the carbon, with a long pair of tongs, upon 
which a couplet is dropped to secure the grasp. It only remains for 
the individual to hold the tongs with a glove whilst a smart tap of 
the hammer is given to their extremity ; this knocks out the false 
bottom of the case and the cylinder, and the tongs prevent the 
cylinder from falling on its side, and thus injuring its delicate but 
still hot surface. For square plateSj a suitable frame is attached by 
four slight claws, and it is the frame which "s seized by the tongs : 
the latter are aometiraes held by a chain which removes the risk or 
ftccidcut to the individual. The stool comes out of the water as 






. i: ^ 



w 






'I'll 
i 



Ht . 



^ 1 



m 




!!5f«WS 



238 MACHINISTS, ENUINEEUS, &C., IlECEri'TS. 

smooth to the touch as at first, and mottli-d witli all tho beaulifui 
tiatrf of ciisc-hardencd guii-locka. 

On FiMj MANrKACTURK. — Files arc made of bars of steel, reudered 
doubly hard by a process called double conversion, driivvii ilio 
required size at the tdt hammer, and then shaped, the «f[iiiiro and 
ihit ones bv tho bar 'ner and common anvil only, hut those of 
round, half-round, and three-angled forms, by moans of bosses and 
dies made in the above shapes, which fit into a groove left for tlim 
In the anvil. The steel blanks having been thus formed, arc uexl 
annealed, or softened, to render them capable of bein^ cut, l)y 
placing a number of them together in a brick oven, rendered air- 
tight by filling up all the interstices with sand (to prevent tiie oxida- 
tion of the steel, to which it is very liable, if air bo admitted), and 
then making a firo play as equally as possible all rouu'l until they 
are red hot, when the heat is discontinued, and tho steel allowed to 
cool gradually before it is uncovered. The surface to contain tlm 
teeth is now rendered as smooth as possible bv grinding or filling; 
the teeth are then cut with a carofully ground chisel, each incisiuu 
being made separately. Tho next and last process, that f harden- 
ing, is peiformod in various ways by ditferent makers, tho ordinary 
method, however, is to cover tho files with a kind of compositio:i 
or protecting varnish to prevent oxidation and scalding of the 
steel when heated ; and, lastly, they are plunged in culd, fresh 
water to cool them as quickly as possible. Som^i file-makers coat 
ith«ir files, before tempering, with a composition of cow-dung or 
•pig-flour, which not only protects tho sharp angles of the cuttingi 
from the action of the firo, but furnish a highly azotizcd substance, 
jwhich conduces greatly to still further harden and steelify the 
^nished work. 1 Know several file manufacturers who make use 
of a bath of melted lead for tempering purposes. The files arc first 
coated with a greasy composition to prevent any oxide adhering, 
then introduced for a short time into molted lead, or the "metallic 
,bath" as it is called, and then plunged ii r-o the tempering liquid. 
(The melted lead may be kept covered vrith charcoal, or other 
suitable ingredient, to prevent oxidation. In some manufactoriej 
a charcoal fire is kept burning on the surface of tho melted lead. 
-'Pen Making. — Pens should bo made of the best steel that can bo 
got, as peculiar elasticity is reauired in them, which could not bo 
pbtained if poor steel were used. Tho steel is cut into slips some3 
feet long and 4 inches broad; these slips are then plunged into a pickle 
»f diluted suli)huric acid so as to remove the scales from the 
[surface ; next it is passed between heavy rollers by which it is 
reduced to the thickness required, and made fit to undergo the first 
(process in pen making. This is performed by a girl, who, seated 
jat a stamping-press provided with a bed and corresponding punch, 
apeedily cuts out the blank, which is perfectly flat. Tho noxt step 
is to perforate the hole which terminates the slit, a,ud to remove any 
superfluous steel which might interfere with the elasticity of the 
pea. The embryo pens are then annealed in a muffle, and the 
maker's name stamped upon them. The pens are next transferred 
to another class of workmen, who, by means of a press, either make 
the pens concave, if they arc merely to bo nibs, or, if they are to be 
.barrel pona they roll the barrel together. The next procmjs 



, ^1!'^: 



ri'Ts. 

1 tlio hcilUtiful 

s tool, rendered 

on, drawn the 

tlio H<[uiirc ami 

l»iit thoso of 

IS of bosses and 

ve left for them 

rmed, are ue.u 

boiiijr cut, liy 

I, rendered air- 

vonlthooxida- 

iidinitted), m\ 

mii'l until they 

teol allowed to 

to contain tiio 

ling or filling; 

il, each incisiou 

that f liarden- 

s, tho ordinary 

j{ corapositio;! 

salding of the 

ia cold, fresil 

lie -makers coat 

f cow-dung or 

of the cutting^ 

ized substance, 

nd steelify the 

who make use 

'he files are first 

>xide adhering, 

r the " metallic 

nperiug liquid. 

rcoal, or other 

I manufactoriej 

e melted lead. 

teel that can bo 

;h could not bo 

ito slips some 3 

jcdiuto a pickle 

jales from the 

by which it is 

idergo the first 

irl, who, seated 

)ondiiig punch, 

The next step 

to remove any 

last! city of the 

nuffle, and the 

icxt transferred 

iss, either make 

f they are to be 

next prociusajs 



MACHINISTS, ENOINEEIIS, >IC., RECDIl'TS. 239 

termed the hardening, and consists in placing a numhei oi'ncn.j in 
an iron box which is introduced into a niutlle. After ihey f)i;.,:»Me 
of a deep red heat they are |>lunged into a tank of oil, and, when 
they get cool, the adhering oil is removed by agitation in circiiiur 
tin barrels ; tnuiteriny is the next step, by heating to the necessary 
elasticity in a warm bath of oil: and, finally, the whole number of 
pens are placed in a revolving cylinder along with sand, ground cru- 
cible, and other cutting substances, which tends to brighten them up 
to the natural color of the steel ; next the nib is ground down finely, 
with great rapidity, by a girl, who picks it up with a pair of pliers, 
and, with a single touch on an emery revolving wheel. j)orfects it ut 
once. The slit is now made by means of a press. A chisil, or wedge, 
with a flat side, is affixed 'o the bed of the press, and the desci'nd- 
ing screw has a corresponding chisel-cutter, which passing down 
with the greatest accuracy on the pen, which had been placed on 
the «hiscl affixed to the bed, and the slit is made and the pen com- 
plete. They are next colored brown or blue, by placing them in a 
revolving metal cylinder, under which is a cnarcoal stove, and, by 
watching narrowly the different gradation of color, the requisite 
tint is speedily attained ; a brilliant polish is subsequently imparted 
by immersing the pens in lac dissolved in naptha; they are then 
dried, counted, selected and placed in boxes for sale. 

Gold Pens. — Gold pens are made much in the same manner as 
steel, with this important difference, that, as they cannot bo tem- 
pered in the same way that steel is, the necessary elasticity is 
imparted to them by hammering, and bv rubbing them with a 
small hard stone and water, instead of the tempering, &c., in oil. 
As gold is too soft of itself to make a durable pen. it is found 
necessary to attach a minute portion of an alloy or iridium and 
osmium, by soldering to the tips. This makes an extremely hard 
and durable point. 

On Nekdlh Manufacture, Tempering, &c. — Tbis small but im- 
portant implement has to go through the hands of about 1:^0 
workmen during the process of manufacture. The steel wire, being 
drawn to the proper size, is submitted to various tests to ascertain 
its quality, and is then cut into proper lengths by shears, which, by 
striking 21 blows in a minute, cut in 10 hours fully 400,000 ends of 
steel wire, which produce about 800,000 needles. These are passed 
on for further manipulation to other workmen, who straighten and 
point the pieces of wire. After pointing they are Cut in two, so as to 
lorm two separate needles of equal length and quality. For each dif- 
ferent size a small copper plate is employed. It is nearly square, and 
has a turned-up edge on two of its sides, the one is intended to re- 
ceive all the points, while the other resists the pressure of the shears. 
On this plate a certain number of wire are put with their points in 
contact with the border, and they are cut together flush with the 
plate, by means of a small pair of shears moved by the knee of the 
workman. These even wires are now taken to the headflattcner. 
This workman, seated over a table with a block of steel before him 
about 3 inches cube, takes up from 20 to 25 needles between lus 
finger and thumb, spreading them out like a fan, with the points* 
under (he thumb, he lays the heads on tlie steel block, and, Avith.a 
small fiat-favwd hammer strikes a few successive blows upon them 



li 



i ,. 



A:' 



< II 



f1 



til 

'"'Ik i 






fj. 



' ;• i: 










iril <li/iil t ''A I 



240 MACHINISTS, TNOINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



so as to flatten them in an instant, Tlie heads, having become 
hardened by hammering, are now annealed by heating and slow 
cooling, and are handed to the piercer^ generally a child, who 
forms the eye in a second by laying the head upon a block of steel, 
and by driving a small punch through one side with a smart tap 
of the hammer, and then exactly opposite on the other. The eyes 
are then trimmed by driving the punch through them again on a 
lump of lead and, after laying the needle with the punch sticking 
through it, upon the block of steel, hammering the head on. the 
sides, which causes it to take the form of the punch. The next 
operator makes the groove at the eye and rounds the head, 
which he does with a small file. The needles, being thiis prc- 
'pared, are thrown by the workmen pell-mell into a sort of drum 
or box, in which they are made to arrange themselves in parallel 
lines by means of a few dexterous shakes of the workman's arm. 
They are now ready to be tempered, for which purpose they are 
ranged on sheet-iron plates, about 30 lbs. weight at a time, con- 
taining from 250,000 to 500,000 ".eedlcs, and are placed in a proper 
furnace, when they are heated to a bright redness for the larger 
needles, and to a less intense degree for the smaller ; they arc then 
removed, and inverted sudd >nly over a bath of cold water in jjucii . 
a way that all the needles may be immersed at tho same time, yet 
•separate from each other. This has the effect of making them very 
hard and brittle. Tho water being run off, the needles are removed 
for further operations. Some manufacturers heat tho needles by 
means of immersion in melted lead, others throw them into a pan 
along with a quantity of grease, "which, being placed on the fire, the 
oily matter soon ignites, and after it burns out, the needles are 
found to be in the proper temper j those which are twisted in the 
tempering being afterwards straightened by the hammer on the 
anvil. 

Polishing is the next and most expensive and prolonged operation. 
This is effected on bundles containing 500^000 needles intermixedwith 
quartzoze sand, and a little rape-seed oil. Thirty of those bundles 
are exposed to the vibratory pressure of wooden tables, whiclimake 
about 20 horizontal double movements per minute, causing the 
bundles to run over 2 feet each time, or 800 feet per hour. This 
agitation is kept up about 18 or 20 hours, causing such a move- 
ment and attrition as to polish the needles in the bags or bundles. 
They are then removed from the packete into wooden bowls and 
mixed with sawdust to remove the grease and other impurities, 
placed in a cask, which is turned by a winch ; moru sawdust is 
introduced as required, and the turning is continued until the 
needles become clean and bright. They are then winnowed by a 
fan to clean them from the sawdust and refuse matter, and are 
subsequently arranged in regular order on a small, somewhat con- 
cave, iron trayo The operation of making up the rolls or bags, 
polishing, winnowing and arranging them, have to bo repeated ten 
times on the best needles. It is found that emerv powder mixed 
with quartz and mica or pounded granite is preferable to anything 
else for polishing needles by friction in the bags at the first, emery 
mixed, with olive oil, from the second to the seventh operation, 
putty, or oxide of tin for the eight and ninth, putty with very little 



'■I'l 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &.G., RECEIPTS. 



n 



oil for the tenll), and lastly bran to give a finish. In this mode of opcr- 

a'liii'-;, the ufcdlcs iirc .scoured in a cupjjer cask aludded i:i ihc. i itc- 

rior with ra:i3i-'d point.'? to i icre'i.;c tlic tViction and a mia.ility of hoc 

go!ip ndi id in:rttducea occasionally to keep theiii clea i. Th s 

cask ini'rft bb .slowly lurjiod upon its axis fnc fear of inj'iring th;> 

niiis.s f neL'dl(;.s it contains. They aro finally dried in tlio Avuode;i 

cask by attrition with saw dust, (h.-n wiped with a linen rag or 

soft Lather— the damaged o^ies being throsvri aside. The -q/V/w/ 

is pL'rformed in dry appartraeuts, where all the points are first laid 

tiie sam way, aiid the nes^dles arranged in the order of tiieir polish 

with great rapidity Tlie workman places 2000 or ,3000 needles 

ill lui iron ring two inches in dlanicier, and sels all their heads in 

one plane, then, on looking carefully at their points, lie easily re- 

cugnizos the broken o.ies and removes them with a iin.T(trnraent 

adapted fur tne purpose. These defective needles pass into the 

haads ut' Van pointer in order to bo ground again, when th 'y form 

articles of inferior value. Tliose needles bent in th« polishing must 

r.ow be straightened, and the whole are lina'.ly arranged by the 

tact uf the huger and thumb, of the sorter, and weighed out intf> 

quantities for packing into blue papers. The bluer puts the final 

touch to tiieni by taking 25 needles at a time between his fore-fnger 

aud thuinb, and pressing their points against a small hone-stone 

of compact micaceous schist, quadrangular in form, mounted in a 

small hithe, turning them briskly round, giving the points a bluish 

cast, wiiiie he j)olislies and improves them. 

B.\LA.NCK bfiiiNGS OP C^KONO^fETERs. — Tho balancG springs of 
marine ciironomeiers, wliich are in the form of a screw, are wound 
into the stpiare thread of a screw of the api)ropriate diameter and 
coarseness ; t he two eadsof the spring are retained by side screws,and 
the whole i.s carefully enveloped in i)!atinum foil, and lightly bound 
with wire. The mass is next heated in a piece of gun barrel closed 
at one e:ul, a id plunged into oil, which hardens the spring almost 
without discolouring ii, owing to the exclusion of the air by tho 
close platinum covering, which is now removed, and the spring ia 
let down to the blue before removal from the screwed block. The 
balance or hair spring of conuiion watches are frequently left soft, 
those of the best watclies are hardened in the coil upon a i>lain cy 
linder and are then curled into the spiral form between the edge 
of a l)lunt knife and tlie thumb, tho samo as in curling up '. nar- 
row ribbon or paper, or the tilamoiits of an ostrich feather. Tho 
.soft springs are worth GO cents eacli, those hardened and tempered 
§1.2(3 each. This raises the value of the steel, originally less than 
4 cents, to $2000 aod $8)00 respectively. It takes 3200 balanco 
spi'iigs to weigh an ounce. 

WATcn Si'UiNO Manukacture. — Watch springs are hammered 
out of round steel wire, of suitable diameter until they fill the gauge, 
for width, wiiich at tho same time insures equality of thicliness. 
Tho holes are punched in their extremities, and they are trimmed 
on the edge witli a smooth lile. Tlie spriugs are then tied up with 
binding vire. in a loose open coil and heated over a charcoal firo 
ii])uu a perforated revolviiig plate. They are hardened in oil Pud bla- 
zed oflTThe spring ij now distended in a long metal frame, similar to 
that used for a saw blade, and ground aud polished with emery and 





^' 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEER^ &0., RECEIPS^S, 



!:i 



W 



oil between lead blocks. By this time its elasticity appears qmte lost 
and it may be bent in any direction ; its elasticity is, however' 
entirely restored by a subsequent hammer'ng on a A'cry bright an- 
ril which puts the " nature into the si>rinj: Tlie coloring^ 13 done 
over a flat plate of iron, or^hood, under which a small spirit lamp 
is kept burning; the sprfn? is continually drawn backward and 
forward, about two or three inches at a time, until it assumes tbe 
orange or deep blue tint throughout, according to the taste of the 
purchaser. By many the coloring is considered to be a matter of 
ornament and not essential. The last process is to coil the spring 
into the spiral form, that it may enter tlie barrel in which it is to 
be contained. This is done by a tool with a small axis and winch 
handles, and does not require heat. 

Compensation Balance of Curonometers. — The balance is a 
small piece of steel covered with a hoop of brass. The rim, consist- 
ing of the two metal.'S, is divided at the two extremities the one dia- 
metrical arm of the balance, so that the increase of temperature 
which treakensthe balance spring? contract, in a proportionate de- 
gree,the diameter of the balance, leaving the spring less resistance to 
overcome. This occurs from tlie l>ra3S expanding mucLmoreby 
heat than steel, and it therfore curls the semicircular arc* inwards, 
an action that will be immediately understood, if wo conceive the 
compound bar of steel to be straight, as the heat would render the 
brass side longer and convex,and in the 1 alance it renders it more cur- 
ved, In the compensation balance the two metals arc united as fol- 
lows : the disk of steeil when turned and pierced with a centnil hole is 
fixed by a little screw-bolt and nut at the bottom of a small cru- 
cible, with a central elevation smaller than Iho disk ; the brass is 
now melted and the whole allowed to cool. The crucible i;; broken, 
the excess nf brass is turned off in the lathe, the arm? are 
made with the file as usual, the rim is tapped to receive the com- 
pensation screws or weights, and, lastly, the hoop is divided in two 
places at the opposite ends of its diametrical arm. 

Tabular View of the Processes of Soldekino. — Hard solder- 
ing. The hard solders most commonly used are the spelter solders, 
and silver solders. The general flux is borax, marked A. on the 
table, and the modes of heating are the na. ed fire, the furnace or 
muffle, and the blow pipe, marked a, ft, ff, applicable to nearly all 
metals less fusible than the solders ; the modes oi' treatment are 
nearly similar throughout. JVote. — The exampl:!3 cnmmenr.e with 
the solders (the leas't fusible first) followed vy the iietiils for 
which they are commonly employed. Fine gold, laminiited and 
cut into shreds, is used as the solder tor joining chemical vessels 
made of platinum. Silver is by many considered as much tbe he-t 
solder for German silver, for silver solders, see pages 153 and 154. 
Copper cut in shreds, is sometimes similarly used for iron Oold 
solders laminated arc used for gold alloys, see 153 and 154. ^\k'.i- 
er solders, granulated whilst hot. are used for Iron, copper, braci 
gun Lietals, German silver, &c, see 189. Silver solders, lamiuiited 
are employed for all silver works and for common gold work, also 
for Gteiman silver, gilding metal, iron, .:teel, brass, gun meial, kc, 
when greater neatness is required than is obtained from epelt^r 
solder. ^ 



PIS, 

ears quite lost, 

Y is, however, 
cry bright an- 
loring- 13 done 
ill spirit lamp 
backward and 
it assumes the 
le taste of the 
)e a matter of 
coil the spring 
which it is to 
,xi3 and winch 

balance is a 
e rim, consist- 
ies the one dia- 
tf temperature 
)portionatede- 
3S resistance to 
niucL more by 
: arc* inwards, 
:o conceive the 
aild render the 
ers it more cur- 
c united asfol- 
i central hole is 
Df small cru- 
;k ; the brass is 
ciblc i;; broken, 

tlip arm? are 
ceivt' tlie corn- 
divided in two 

— Hard solder- 
spelter solders. 
rKcd A., on the 

the furnace or 
e to nearly all 

treatment are 
jDTumence with 
the iietals for 

laminated and 
hemical vessels 
I much the he-t 
es 153 and 154. 
for iron Gold 
ami 154. Siidc- 
i, copper, braii 
dcrs, laminated 
;old work, also 
gun meial, &c., 
d from spelter 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, iC, RECEIPTS. 243 

White or button solders, granulated, are employed for the white 
ftlloys called button metals ; they we^'e introduced as cheap substi- 
tutes for silver solder. 

JJant t^oldenvy. Applicable to nearly all the metals ; the modes 
of treatment are very different. The soft solder mostly used is 2 parts 
tin and one of lead ; sometimes, from motives of economy, much 
more lead is employed, and 1^ tin to 1 lead is the most fu'sible of 
the group, unless bismuth is u-csd. The fluxes H to G, and the 
modes of heating a to i', are all used with the soft solders. 

^'ote. — The examjjles commence with th^ metals to be soldered. 
Thus in the list zino, 8, c,/, implies, that zinc is soldered with No. 
8 alloy, by the aid of the muriate or chloride of zinc, and the coiiper 
bit. Lead, 4 to 8, F, '/, e, implies that lead is soldered with alloys 
varying from No. 4 to 8, and that it is fluxed with tallow, the heat 
being apj'Iied by por.ring on melted solder, and the subsequent use 
of tie heated iron, not tinned ; but in general one only of the modes 
of h'^^ating is selected, according to circumstances. 

Iron, cast-iron and steel, 8, 13, D, if thick, heated by a, 6, or r, 
and also by ^. See page 190. 

Tinned iron, 8, G, D,/ 

Gold and silver are soldered with pure tin, or else with 8, E, rt, g^ 
or A. 

Copper and many of its alloys, namely, brass, gilding metal 
gun metal. &c., 8, B, C, D ; when thick, heated by a, It, c, c, ory, 
when thin hyj, or y. 

Speculum nietal, 8, R, C, D, the heat should be cautiously applied, 
the sand bath is perhaps the best mv?de. 

Zinc, 8, C,/. 

Lead and lead pipes, or ordinary plumber's work 4 to 8 F, d, 
ore. 

Lead and tin pipes, 8, D, and G, mixed, ff, and also/. 

Britannia nietal, C, I), y. See page 189. 

i'cvt'ters, the solders m'lst vary in fusibility according to the fu- 
sibility of the metal, generally G, and i, are used, sometimes also 
6, and </, ?••/; 

Lead is united without solder by pouring on red-hot lead, and 
employing a red-hjt iron d, e. 

Iron and brass are sometimes burned, or united by partial fusion, 
by pouring very hot metal over or a-round them. See page 214. 

Al.l.OYS AND THKIR iMeLTINQ ITeATS. FlUXES. 

No, 



1 


1 


Tin 


25 


Lead 


fJ8 


Fahr. 


A. Borax. 


2 


1 




10 




541 


u 


B. Sal-am. or mur. of amm. 


3 


1 




5 




511 


« 


C. Muriate or chlor. of zinc. 


4 


1 




3 




482 


'( 


D. Common resin. 


5 


1 








441 


a 


E. Venice turpentine. 


G 


I 








370 


'1 


F. Tallow. 


7 


n 








334 


u 


G. Gallipoli oil, or commiDn 


8 


2 








340 


It 


[sweet oil. 


9 


3 








35G 


II 


Modes op Api'Lyino Heat. 


10 


4 








.31 !5 


II 


a. Naked fire. 


11 


5 








378 


II 


b. Hollow fiiviuice or muT'e. 


12 


6 








381 


i( 


c. Immersion lu melted sod. 



^1. ' [ 






S! 



'ii! ij 



«1'> 



^^% 






li'i'ii' 



"i 



h 3 



.'. ■ i. 




■.^i^0^S^^%^m^' 



lMu^ 



244 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C,, RECEIPTS. 



ALL0Y3 AND TIIEIll MkLTINO HeATo MoDES OF Al'PLTIXG Hea'i. 

13 4 Lead 4 Tin 1 iMsmiiih :320 Fiibr <A M-hed soULr or me^ 

tfil puurt'l n 

e. Iloatodir ii, notlind. 

/ Heated copper tool 
tinned ' 

g. Blow pipe flame 

A. flame alone, 
rally alcohol 

i. Stream ot heated aii*. 



14 


3 


(( 




" 1 


/ 


310 


15 


2 


11 


2 


.( 1 


f,* 


292 


16 


1 


I 


1 


" 1 


t 


254 


17 


2 


li 


1 


'<■ 2 


;« 


236 



gene- 



18 3 «' 



202 



To Refine Sweepings Containing Gold oh Silver. — To 8 ozg. 
©f the dirt, which has been washed and burnt, add saltj4ozs.* 
pearlasb 4 ozs. ; red tartar 1 oz. ; saltpetre ^ oz,, mix thoroughly 
in a mortar, melt in a crucible, and dissolve out the precious 
metals in a hutton. 

To Fuse Gold D'tst. — Use such a crucible as is generally 
used for melting brass; heat voiy hot; tht^n add your gold dust 
mixed with powdered borax ; — after some time a scum or slag -ffill 
arise on th top which mav be thickened by the addition of a 
littlo Imij or bone ash If the dust contains any of th. more 
oxidizeabl: metals, add a little nitre, skim off the slag or scum very 
carefully ; when melted grasp the cruciljle with strong iron t(/iigs; 
and pour off immediately into cast iron moulds, slightly greased. 
The slag and crucibles may bo aft ^rwards pulverized, and the 
auriferous UL'itter recovered from the mass through cupellationby 
means of '.ead 

To Recover Gold from Quartz. — Pulverize the quartz rock as 
usual, and fuse the mass with lime and oxide of iron. When fused; 
immerse thin plates of wrought iron in the mixture The ] lates 
soon become coated with a tliin film of gold, and are th n wi:h- 
drawn and immersed in a bath of melted lead, which ivmoves the 
adhering gold, when the plates can be at once returned t th fused 
quartz and the operation repeated as frequently as tho c;is may 
require. Another method, whea the metal is dis.seminatcd thr ugh 
quartz pyrites or lead, is to pulverize the ore as usual and wi'.sli the 
whole with a stream of water, which carries away tlie lighter 
portions of sand, leaving the heavy metal behind. It i^ fartheif 
ireed from impurities by being amalgamated with quick-silver, 
which is afterwards distilled off! In this state it generally contains 
from 2 to 10 per cent, of sil-er or tellurium It is further refined 
by being finely granulated and boiled with concentrated :.ul;ihuric 
acid Hntil every other constituent is boiled out. Gold by being 
alloyed, loses much of its ductility and malleability^ buL gains in 
fusibility and hardness Gold alloys are assayed in two waj'S, 
first, by rubbing the .rticle en a touchstone ( which is a vol voir, 
black flinty variety of jasper) so as to make a metallic screak, 
which if, touched with ff/uo, rrr/ia, and th" effect is compared with 
that of a similar streak made by an alloy ofk'iown composition. By 
this means an experienced operator can estimate the amount of 
alloy in any mixture correctly Avithin one per cent. Full itif'orraa- 
tion regarding the second process can be seen under th: article on 
Rbfining Gold and Silvku. 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS, 



245 



Gold Alloys. The " New Standard " for watch cases, &c., .3 18 
caralJ uf liiie gold und G of alloy. No gold of inferior qualiij can 
receive the '• ii. ill mark "; aid gold of lower quality is generally 
described by its commeroial value. The alloy may be entirely 
silver, wliicli will give a green color, or entirely copper for a red 
color, but tlie copper and silver are more usually mixed ia one 
alloy according to the ta.^te of the jeweller. It will be understood 
that these are all made with fine gold, fine silver, and fine copper, 
direct from the refiner. Gold of 22 carats fine being so litt)'^ used, 
is intentioually omitted. 1. Gold 0/I8 carats, qf yellow tint. Gyla 
15 dwt, silver, 2 dwt, 18 grs, copper, 2 dwt Ggrs, 2. Gold of 18 
cands, red tint. Gold Ui dwt, silver, 1 dwt Di. grs, copper, 3 dwt 
6 grs. 3, Si>ring gold of IG carat's. Gold 1 oz. IG dwt, silver, 6 dwt. 
copper, 12 dwt. tliis. when drawn or rolled very hard, makes spfinga 
litile inferior to steel; 4 </ewe//ers'i^«/je Gold, yellow tint, 16 carats 
natrlij. Gold, 1 oz. silver, 7 dwt. copper, 5 dwt, 5. Gold of, red 
tint, IG carats. Gold, 1 oz. silver, 2 dwt. copper. 8 dwt. Gold 
alloys in great variety will be found by consulting tlie " Jewellers' 
Department" pages 153, ir)4, U)5 and 15G. 

Smelting of Copper.— After the ore is raised from the mine, it is 
freed from its matrix and sorted, the purest portions being broken 
into p'cces the size of a nut. The first calcination is effected in a 
reverbe -atory furnace, the heat not being raised too high. At tho 
end of 12 hours the ore is converted into a black powder, contain- 
ing sulphide of copper, oxide and sulphide of Icon, and earthy 
impurities. The roasted ore is next fu'sed with a quantity of sill" 
cioiis shig, bj' which means it is converted into a fusible slag cono 
sistiug of silicate of iron and sulphides of iron and copper, which 
sink through the slag, forming at the bottom a heavy mass, termed 
a malt. Tiie matt thus procured is, while melted, run into water, 
by which it is granulated. The product obtai::ed ir: called coarse 
metal. It is roasted once rfiore for twenty-four hours, by which 
means tlie larger proportion of the sulphido of iron ir converted 
into oxide. It is then calcined with some copper ore known to 
contain oxide of copper and silica. The oxide of copper transforms 
any remaining sulphide of iron into oxide, :,'hich is taten up by 
tlie silica to form a slag, through which tho sulphide of copper sinks. 
This matt contains about 80 per cent, of copper, and is knowa 
by the name oi fine metal. It is cast into pigs, tho lower portions 
of which contain most of the impurities ; th-; metal .oxtracted from- 
t!io upper portions being known in the market as best selected 
copper. Tho fine metal has now to be freed entirely from sulphur 
by a final calcination, at a heat just short of that required to fuse 
it. During the process the motal becomes oxidized at the surface. 
The oxide thus formed decomposes the rest of the sulphide, sul- 
pluirous acid escaping, .. nd metallic copper remaining behind. Tho 
metal obtained is run ott into moulds, forming ingots full of bub- 
bles, from the escape of the sulphurous acid gas. These ingots, 
whicli are known asjiimple, or blistered copper, from their peculiar 
appearance, have now to underg- the process of refining. They 
are placed in a reverberatory furnace, and kept in a molted state 
for upwards of 20 hours, to oxidize the last traces of forefgi 
metals. Slags are formea ou tl->e surface and skimmed off. n^d a 



I ?! Mil 




i, 



If 



"■!;. 



i' ' : 



M 






, =1 1 







246 MACHINISTS, engineers, &C., ERCEIPT8. 



i ' 5^; 



great deal of oxide is produced which is absorbed by the metal. To 
reduce thi.s oxido, the surface of tlic molted metal is covered wiih 
anthracite or cliarcoal, and towards the last a young tree is thrust 
la. Tills process, which is called poling, disengages the whole of 
the oxygen from the oxide diffused through the muss. Tlie above 



13, as ne 



jarly as possible, the method of copper-smelting, as era- 
]iloyed in England, the pr cesses adopted iu Saxony a ul North 
America being nearly identical with it, the dilferenco merely being 
niodificaiions to suit the various impurities contained m the ore. 
Wiion the ore consists of oxide or carbonate of copper onlj^, it is 
red'acod to the metallic state by simple fusion with charcoal and 
subsequent poling • 

Smklting of Lkad. — The ore havmg been , rought to the surface, 
is first sorted by hand, the purest portions being set aside ready for 
smelting. The r ,st is broken by hammers into lumps as largo as a 
walnut, and again sorted. The remainder is then cruL^hcd iua 
mill, and sifted t arough. coarse sieves, the coarser portions being 
set aside for the stampers, and tiio finer being subjected to the pro- 
cess of ^iuging. This consists in plunging a sieve contaiaing tlio 
ore into water, and shaking it dexterouslyj so that tl.ie smallest 
particles pass thiough, leaving the larger pieces in the sieve, with 
the lightest aiid least metallic portions iippermost. If tlie sorted 
galena be tolerabiy free from gangue, about 1} ton of tlie ore is 
mixed with l-15lh to l-40th its weight of lime, and heated to dull 
redness in a reverberatory furnace, through whie'i a cnrrcjit of air 
is passing. }5y this means a large portion of the sulphur is burnt 
off as sulphurous acid, oxide of lead and sulpiiate of lead being 
formed, and much of the ore vema:nin j undec orajioscd. Wlieu the 
roasting has been carri' d sufficiently fai, the furnace doors are 
shut and the heat /s raised. The sulphat and oxide of lead re-act 
on tlin undecomposed sulphide, a large quantity of sulphurous acid 
ic ibrraed, which passes olF, leaving large quantities of metallic 
lead behind. Th:' hro is now damped, nd a quantity of lime 
thrown in, Avhich forms a very infusible slag, allowing the metaUic 
lead to be drawn off into moulds. The slag, which contains a large 
proportion- of lead, is smelted with an additional portion of ore. 
Lead is refined by being melted in a shallow pan in a reverberat- 
ory furnace. By fid's operation any tin or antimony it may contain 
is oxidized and removed as skimmings. When a ladleful of the lead 
under this operation cools with a j)ecuUar crystalline surface, tlie 
process is discoatinued, and the metal is run off into pigs. For 
some purposes, such for instance as the making of red lead for the 
manufacture of flint glass, it is necessary that the lead should be 
almost chemically pure, as a proportion of coi 'cr for instance, 
amounting only to a few grains per ton, would coior the glass and 
spoil the batch. Silv:r may be profitably extracted from lead, even 
when it contains only three or four ounces to ihe ton, by Pattin- 
son's process. This process depends upon the fact that, as lead 
solidifies, the first portions that crystallize are pure lead. The 
operation is, therefore, performed by melting the m.^tal in an iron 
pot and allowing it to cool gradually; as it cools, tlie crystals of 
pure lead are removed by a perforated ladle, and the process con- 
tinually ronoated with fresh portions pf, '-fad until fio ma.=53 con- 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 247 

tains about 3W ounces TO tne ton. it 13 then Buomlltect to cupef 
Idion. See Rkfixlng Gold and Silver, page 1G4. 

Masl-kactukk nv Iron — The preparation of the ore is eflfected 
in a very simple manner, either by pounding or levigating, to 
geparale the clay and silica, or other impuritiea, or by roasting, to 
draw (iff sulphur and carbonic acid, and to render the ore more 
easily crushed. The extraction of the metal from the ore was 
formerly effected by means of charcoal, in what v.ra3 termed a 
Catalan forge, but it is only used now in a few instances. On 
accouuL of tlie loss of metal during the process, it will be better 
to describe the usual method of smelting ores in England by tho 
blast-furnace. A blast-furnace consists ot a long cone inverted 
ui)OU a shorter cone, at the bottom of which is a vertical passage 
called the crucible, into which i..'e inserted three pipes called 
tuyeres, through whicli the blast is conveyed ; also a larger open- 
ing, through which the slag may be withdrawn, at intervals At 
the bottom is a hole called the tap-hole, usually closed with cla^ 
for drawing off the reduced metal when a sufficient quantity a 
collected, The furnace is tied with coal, limestone and ore from 
a hole near the top, the charge being renewed from time to time 
as the materials bur.i down. The action by which the ore la 
reduiiv-d to the metallic state may be traced as follows The oxy- 
gen of the air of the blast combines with the carbon of the 
coal to torm carbonic acid during the process of combustion The 
carbonic acid, during its passage tlirough the rest of the heated 
fuel, is decomposed, being couvor.ed into carbonic oxide. The 
carbonic oxide, sMll ascending, meets with the hydrogen and coal- 
gas, together with which it forms a reducing mixture, abstracting 
the oxygen of the ore and setting iree tho iron in a metallic state, 
which sinks lown to the bottom of the furnace, where it comes iu 
contact with the carbon of the coal. With this carbide of iron is 
formed, increasing llie fusibility of tho reduced iron to such aa 
extent that the lime, clay, and silica present, which have been coa- 
verted into a fusible slag, that on the top as an imperfect glass. 
The slag runs over through the side apertures provided for the pur- 
po3i', and the metal is withdrawn every 12 or 24 hours through the 
tap-hole. It is run into moulds consisting of a long channel, from 
each side of wh ch run shorter ones. The central channel is knowa 
a3 the sow, the side ones as the jiigs, hence the teim pig iron, as 
applied to rough cast-iron. Great improvements have lately beea 
made iu the process of smelting iron, by the introduction of a 
heated blast for urging the combustion, and by using tho com- 
bustible gases issuing from-the top of the furnace for heating tho 
blast, or the boilers of the steam-engines used for the blowing 
machines. These improvements are now in use^t most of the 
principal iron works throughout the kingdom, and an idea of 
their iinportiince may be gathered from the fact that 15 j-ears ago 
a yield of 200 tons \wv furnace was thought to be a large quantity, 
wheifus now, at tho Ulvi.rstoiie aiiti other works, 000 luid G50 tons 
per week is thouglu tin ordinary yield; not only this, but the 
amount uf fuel used has been reduced to one-quarter by the same 
means. The iron that comes from the furnace is generally much 
too impure to be used for any but the very roughest castings, 






'■'Hi < t ' 

1 1'' 



ii 






■liv- ' 

Jiv ■! , 



'■i .. f 



tii- 




■'*^¥S?S<*^' 



248 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



it therefore has to bo remclte(l,i.o drive off, na much as possible, tbe 
niicoiubiued carbon, or f^raphilu, silicon, phosphoriL-:, sulphur, auj 
• iher irapiirita-s. A smglc roriisinn cuuvcrls il into w imt i..^ lurincj 
" No. 2 \ng,'' or a ^Toy iron, a fiisiblc uucl li(iual laeUil ; n, sccoiul 
and third still furthej jairifyinL^ it I'rom carbon, until iL is cuiiVLTtei] 
into refined or ■white uon, in AvLiioli he wholo of the farliMi is 
combiuvd with tho metal Ph.;* dt'scnptioa of ca<t-irnu is only 
used for coiiverriion into mallealilo iron, ior I'lihouj^h it mclU) 
oasilj, it lonns a much more i)a^ty mass than sonic of tlie inter- 
mediate qualities of grey iron, 'whieh meU, into a uiojc rHfiiidmotHl 
littiuf> tbcin for casting purposes. Ilelinod irou made iVuiii- iliij 
Gera\aTi spathosc ores contains a largo quantity of ouii)iuevU'ailxm 
and manganese, and crystallizes in largo plates. Il \i tevincii 
■sptc(/fllt'ifii;n, or mirror ira/i, from the brilliancy of its ci ystalli.ie 
structure, a-id is much valued fur making slocl. Fouuileit* are 
accustomed to divide cast-iron into three or four qualities. Xo. 1, 

tug 01 black cast-iron, which contains a large proportion uf micmn. 
lined carbon , No 2, or grey cast-iron, wiiich contains more com- 
bined carbon ^ No. 3, or mottled, which contains only a few graiuj 
cf uncombricd carbon, here and there, giving it a mottled ujipeur- 
aince , No 4, or relincd iron, in whith the whole of tlie carboa is 
combined No. 4, is very hard and brittle, and is fit for puddling 
or conversiou into malleable or wrought-iron. This is eilectedby 
bringing aa ingot of refined iron to a state of fusion in a n'verbcr- 
atory furnace, taking care to avoid the contact c f fiiel. Tlie heat 
is continued until the ingot parts with its carbon, which is assisted 
by throwing on it scales of oxide, if produced in the forge. 
As the carbon burns off, the iugot b;?coincs more and more pasty, 
until at length it is converted into a granular ta'idy mass. The 
heat is now raised until it- becomes very intense, and tin- air is 
excluded by closing the damper and doors. The metal be;.>;i is to 
agglomerate into round masses, or blooms, which the lunldler col- 
lects on the end of an iron rod, and subjects, while stili hot, either 
to the action of a h.ammer or to a powerful jiress, called a sloughiig 
press, which squeezes out the slag and other impurities, and forced 
the particles of iron closer together. Tiie iron is then roHed into 
bars, and forms what is called homogeneous iron, a quality of 
metal much used when great hardness is required. It is distin- 
guished by its granular texture wiien notched and broloui. It is 
much used for the tops uf railway bar.^, and for tlie weaiiug sur- 
faces of railway wheels. Where the fibrous qualify of iron ia 
required, it is cut into lengths, after the first process of roll in?, 
then pi'cd longitudinally, heated in a roverberatory furnace, ana 
hammered out. This process is repeated several times. Fibrous 
iron has a fracture like a piece of cane, and is used where resistance 
to a pulling strain is required, such as anchor.^, chains, &c. Kiiil- 
way bars are mostly made with the interior of the rail of ilbrous 
iron, to bear the weight of passing trains, while tlie exteriors, are 
made of granular iron to boai the wearing actio i of the wheels. Tli6 
malleable iron of commerce is nearly pure, and may be taken as a 
type of iro'.i for metallurgical purposes. Wrought-iron is of bluish 
white color; it la hard and lustrous when i)olislied, and,when rubbed 
forcibly, it emits a peculiar odour. It.s specific gravity is 7.7 to 



PTS. 



9 possible, tbe 

iL IS coimTtej 
the f:irl,,i, ijj 

^-il'"U is only 

^"Kh it moiu 
of ilic inter- 
li'i"'iliin;tai, 
i;idy I'nMii. thii 
ii''iuL'.li'iiilx)n 
. It is levmc'tl 
ifi t-'iy-^tiilliae 

ities. Xo. 1, 
tioiiuruueoiii. 
ins inoie cum- 
y a lusv {^ruius 
lultk'tl fi])[ieui'. 
f the cat'iH)-,! is 
t fur piuldhng 
3 is odijca'dby 

ill a n'VL'rbcr- 
itt-'l. The heat 
lich is assisted 

ill Ihe forge, 
rid mi ire pasty, 
ly fii'iss. The 
luid Die iiir is 
etui bev;i IS to 
le puddler col- 
5tili hot, either 
ed ii sl()iij;drng 
ties, aiid tbrctl 
tea roHed into 
, a quality of 
It is distin- 
brokeri. It is 
e weaiviig siir- 
dy of iron \i 
:ss of rolliri)?. 
.'• furnace, ana 
:mos. Fibrous 
icre resistance 
ns, &c. liail- 
"ail of (ibi'ous 

exlorior.s are 
le wheels. Tlie 

be taketi as ii 
)ii isofbliiisli 
t,whcii niblied 
uvity ia 7.7 to 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEERf!, itC, RECEIPTS. 



249 



7.9 and it requires the moat intense lieat of a wind furnace to melt 

Smelting of Antimony. — The reduction of antimony to the 
reguline state consists of two operations. The crude ore is first 
melted in an inclined plane, in a reverbatory furnace. The melted 
sulphide fuses and flows awav from tl 8lag,or ^an^wc as it is called. 
TLe sulphide is again roasted, and mixed with carbonate of soda 
and charcoal. On heating this mixture in a crucible, a quantity of 
the metal is formed at the bottom. The unreduced oxysulphide. 
which remains on the top is afterwards used for preparing Kerme's 
mineral. It is never used alone in the arts, but always in con- 
junction with other metals, to which it imparts a hardening quality 
and likewise the valuable property of expanding when they. cool, 
Common type metal is composed of 4 parts lead and I of antimony. 
Music tyi>e contains in addition a small portion of tin. 

Smkltino op Tin. — To extract the metal, the ore is first stamped 
or washed, to get rid of the lighter particles of sand or earth ad- 
hering to it. It is then roasted to free it from arsenic and sulphur, 
and again washed to carry off the sulphate of copper and oxide ot 
iron. The Avashed ore is mixed with from one-fifth to one-eighth 
its weight of poAvdered anthracite, or charcoal, and a small portion 
of lime to form a fusible slag Avith any of the rcmainiag ganguc. 
The charge is placed in the hearth of a low crowned revcrberatory 
furnace, and the doors are closed up. Heat is applied very giadu- 
ally for five or si-^c hours, care being taken to raise the temperature 
high enough to cause, the carbon to reduce the tin without melting 
the silicious gangue, which would fjrm withthebinoxidean enamel 
too troublesome to remove. When nearly all the tin is reduced, the 
heat is raised considerably, the slags being thus rendered fluid and 
capable of floating on the surface of the melted metal The tin ia 
then run off into cast-iron pans from which it is ladled off into 
moulds to form ingots. The tin thus procured is far from beinfpure, 
it is therefore submitted to the process of lignation, which consists 
in heating the ingots to incipient fusion By this means th . ;:ur'r 
tin, Avhicli fuses at a comparatively low heat, separates, runninpr 
down and leaving the impure portions b':'hina. The less fusible 
portion, when re-melted, forms block tin, and the part which has 
run o'.it is again melted and run out with wet stakes. The steara thus 
formed bubbles up to the surface, carrying witl . it all the mechan- 
ical impurities contained in the tin. The mass is then skimmed 
and allowed to cool. "When just about to set, the upper half 1; 
ladled out, the other metals and impurities haying sunk into the bot> 
torn half, from the tendency that this metal has to sepa: ate from its 
alloys. The finest qufility of tin is frequently heated to a temper^ 
ature just short of its melting point At lihis heat, it becomes 
brittle and is bi-oken up into masses, showin. the crystals of th-j 
metal, and forming what is known as grain tin. The formation :Jf. 
crystals is to some extent a guarantee of its purity, since impure tin 
does not become brittle m this way. English tij generally contaim 
small quantities of arsenic, copper, iron and lead Tin fuses at 
442" Fahr, but il is not sensibly volatilized at that or any higher 
tcrapcratitro. For ibe mannfactflre of "lin plate tho best BDft char- 
coal iron h obliged to be used. After it has been rolled and cut td 






1i:i 










/^Vi' 



! i 



250 MACHINISTS, ENOINEERS, &C., REHEIPTS, 

the requisite size, its snriace 13 made chemically clean hyimmeraion 
for a iew niiiuite.i in dilute sulpliun acid Tlic nlieet:i re tlien 
heated to a red lieut in a r vetbirjitnry furnace, wiliidr.wi., n\. 
lovved to cool liiitnmer d ll.t, passed between j)i)lislied roll r., and 
ftrc now washed m dilute iicid Thid preparation is needed t /rce 
the surface 01 the iron from tlio slightest porticjn ofoxide, toAvliicli 
Iho tin would not adhere In ordei to tin them they are plunged 
one by one into a vessel of tallow from which they arc tiaiisforrcd 
to a bath of tm From tliio they ar, taken, after .. certain time 
allowed todrain, and di])pe.l again, The Buper(liu>uj tin at tliocdge 
ot the plate is '•eiuoved by dipping it in the melted tin once more 
and detaching li by givin • tii plate a tdiarp l) ' 

Zinc, — In the extraction fzin from it,-t ores, ha blondi; or cula- 
minu is first crushed between loUers and roasted In the ciuc of 
tho I/l "nde tins i^5 a tediouo process and requires great care. The 
result in either case IS oxid ot zinc which is mixed witli hulf it: 
weight of powdered coke or anthracite aiid introduced into crucible: 
of peculiar construction. A circular furn.ic^ is employed, Avithin 
whi ;h the crucibles are ranged In tlie oottom if eacli crucibloia 
nn opening to which a sliort iron pipe is attached, pas'dng tliroufrli 
tUo botiom of the furnace. To the cod 01 this is aflixed . r-.niov. 
able tubj communicating Avith a slieet iron- vessel Tho h "1 in 
the bottom of tlie crucible h;iving ben partially T)liiggjd with 
coke, a charge of ore and coal is introduced, and thu top of the 
crucible luted down. The tube connect d with th ir n vessol is 
lowered so as to leave tlie crucibl tube open, aud tho boat is 
raised, As soon as the llarac at the mo.th of th , . h rt ir u tube 
begins to turn from white to blue, ^onn ctio;. is n^ade wi'h th; 
tube leading to the iron l)an, and tho /u'm gradually li.til.; d.'wa- 
wards, partly in powder, anil partly in sti*li4:titii masses Th 
Ci'ud metal is remelt'-d, skimmed and cast int inpots 

Haud TiNNiNfi CoMi'oUNi). — An alloy of nick 1, iron and u . ha.. 
been introduced as au improvement in tinning met.Jp, by th lirra 
of Blaise & Co., Paris In an experiment to show the tenacit. of 
the nickel, a jjiece of cast-iron tiuii d with tho compound waonub- 
^^icted for a few minutes to a whue heat und.r the blast, and, 
idtliough the tin was consumed, tho nick 1 remained as a perma- 
nent coating upon the iron. The proportions f nickel and iron 
mixed with the tin, in order to produce th ; best tinning, arc 10 ozs. 
(,f the best nickel and 7 ozs. of sheet iron, to 10 lbs. of tin. Tliesc 
metak are mixed in a crucible to prevent tho oxidation :'f tlie da 
by the high temperature necessary for the fusion f th- nickel; the 
metals are covered with 1 oz. of borax aud 3 ozs. p :unded flxzi. 
The fusion is complete in half an hour, when th. composition 13 
run olF through a hole made in the flux la tinning icnetals with 
this composition tho workman proceeds in the OTilina\ry manner. 

STEKii A1anup.\.cti:i!e — Steel is manufactured from pure malleable 
iron by tho process called cementation. Tho Swedish iron from 
tho Danncmora Minos, marlcod with tne letter L m the co"ntre uta 
c rcic, and called '' ll()0p h" is generally preferred Irons^f a kxf 
other marks arc al;3o used for seconil-rate kinds of stocl. The burs 
arc arranged in a lurnae,-;; tliat co'.isiits of tvo troughs^ (ihDiit 
fourteen feet long and two feet square. A layer of charcoal-powder 



certain time. 



MACHINISTS, ENQINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 251 

ig spread over the bottom, ther a layer of bars, and so on, alter- 
nately,— tlio ruli cliarge is aboi.t ten tons ; the top h covered over 
first with cliarcoiil, tlieu sand, and lastly with the slush or wast* 
fn m the grindstoue trough, applied wet, 'so as to cement the whole 
closely down for the entire oxcliisiou of the air. A coal fire is now 
lighted below and between the troughs ; and at the end of about 
seven days, the bars are found to have increased in weight, the one 
hundred and fiftieth part, by an absorption of carbon, and to pre- 
sent, when broken, a fracture more crystalline, although lesa 
shining, than before. Tho bars, when thus converted, are also 
covered with blisters, apparently from the expansion of the minute 
bubbles of air between them, this gives rise to the name, blistered 
tkd. The continuation of the process of cementation introducen 
more and more carbon, and renders tho bars more fusible, and 
would ultimately cause tliom to run into a mass if the heat were 
not cliecked. To avoid this mischief a bar is occasionally with- 
drawn and broken to watch tho progress, j*nd the work is com- 
plete when the cementation has extended to tho centre of the bars. 
The conversion occupies, with tlie time for charging and emptying 
tho furnace, about fourteen days. A very small quantity of steel is 
employed in the blistered state, for welding to iron for certain parts 
of mechanism, but not for edge-tools. The bulk of the blistered 
steel is j)assed through one of the two following processes, by 
whieh it is made either into shear-steel or castrsteel. Shear-steel is 
produced by jjiling together six or eight pieces of blistered-steel, 
about 30 inches long, and securing the ends within an iron ring, 
terminating in a bar about 5 feet long by way of a handle. They 
are then brought to a welding heat in a furnace and submitted to 
the helve or tilt hammer, which unites and extends them into a 
bar called Hhear-steel from its having been used in the manufac- 
ture of sliears for cloth mills, and also German steel, from having 
been in former years procured from that country. Sometimes the 
bars are again cut and welded and called dotiblc-shear steel from 
the repetition. This process of working, as in the manufacture of 
iron, restores tlio fibrous character, and retains the property of 
welding : the shear-steel is close, hard, and elastic ; it is much used 
for tools, composed jointly of steel and iron, its superior elasticity 
also adapts it to the formation of springs, and some kinds are pre- 
pared expressly for the same, under the name of spring-steel . In 
making cast-steel, about 26 or 28 lbs. of fragments of blistered steel, 
selected from different varieties, are placed in a crucible made of 
clay, shaped like a barrel, and fitted vith a cover^ which is ce- 
mented d jwa with a fusible lute that m dts after a time, the better 
to secure the joining. Either one or two pots are exposed to a 
vivid heat, in a furnace like the brass-founder's air furnace in which 
the blistered-steel is thoroughly melted in the course of 3 or 4 hours j 
it is then removed by the Avorkman in a glowing state, and poured 
into a mould of iron, either 2 inclies square i";)r bars, or about 6 x 
18 inclies, for rolling into sheet-steel.. For lavge ingots the con- 
sents of two or more pots are run together in the same mould, but 
H requires extremely great care in managing tlie very intense tem- 
perature that it shall be alike in both or all the pots. The ingots 
are re-heated iu an opeu lire much like that of the common lorgo, 



PI,; 

m 



f\ 



':' i 



Mii 




. '31' ' 

'H' 



,., , 









252 MACHINISTS, ENGINLERS, &0., UECEU'TS. 



passed undor a heavy lianimer -weighing several tons 
huso of iron-works, the blows ar giv»'ii ;?>.!Uly at first 



■,J 



nnd arc 

such a-J thiiso of iron-works, the blows ar giv»'ii ;?>.!Uly at first 
owing to (he crystallino nature of the mass, bur, as the tibrc is 
clcinmnted the strength of the blows is increased, till is reduced 
under the heavy luunincr to sizes as bniall as i ^i an inch square 
Smaller bars aro fiiii-shed under tilt hammers, which are much 
lighter tliaa the preceding, move considerably quicker, and are 
actuated by springs i:istead of gravity alone , these condense the 
Bteel to the utmost Rollers are also used, especially for steel of 
round, half-round, and triangular sections, but the tilt hammric 
greatly preferred. 

JSiEKL, nv.' TiiK Be-semeu I'uocESS. — Mr. Guransso , a Swedioh iron 
master, having fully examined the Ik'ssem r proc "> oi m king 
Bteel, and erected tlio m-cessary apparatus at his works i Kdsk n, 
after cousiilerable delay in experimenting, has, within a re ;ent 
period, succeeded in establishing the maaufacture of g od steel, n 
a practical scale, and in short devotes his whole establishmeit^ to 
this one i)rocess. This steel has been made into engineers' tools, 
boiler plates, and cutlery ; and the improvement must now be r - 
gavded as an accomplished commercial fact. M. Goransson stales, 
that he ha^: curried out Bessemer's invention t th fullest tent, 
without ever having had rec ursu to any ft he numerous plans 
\vhich have b^cn ])atented by others, under tlu i !ea ' f iini)rovii.g 
tlio original simple process. 'Ih: converting vessel is erected, near 
the taj) hole of the blast-furnace, so that about one t n of lluid pig- 
iron can b;! run into the apparatus at a tim^. The projsure of tbo 
blast is from 7 to 8 lbs. to the square inch ; and, when continued 
for t) or 7 minutes, the whole charge is conv rt u int steel. The 
iluid steel is discharged into a loam-linod ladle, wh n it is well 
stirred, and considerable carbonic oxide disengngi'd and inllamed. 
After a short interval of repose, which is i>robably necessary for 
the steel to condense from the aerated conditi n in whi .1' it leav:;8 
the converting vessel, it is run off from the bottom oi' thi.. ladle, in 
a vertical stream from the in^ot moulds. The whole tim oc u- 
pied, from the luoraent the j/ig-iron leaves the furnace until itic 
cast in 1 he mould, does not exceed 12 minutes. Tli loss in weight, 
including the impurities thrown off, does not exceed l'> jier cent., 
whichisonlyaboutone-half of the waste incurred in t lie manufacture 
of bar-iron b}'' the old system i;i Hweden. By this imi)rovement, 
Mr. Goransson states, in a let er to the London Eng'nccr.i that 
Hiore than 1000 tons annually of cast-ste.l can bo mud with the 
Bame quantity of fuel as is now required for making 500 tpns of 
Vjar-iron. lie says : " So com[ letely have we occoinplishcd the ob- 
ject that we now make several tons of large ingots of cast-steel in 
succession, without a single niisl:ap or tiiiluro of any kiud. The 
steel can lie made either hard, medium, or soft at jtleasure. It 
draws under the hammer perfectly sound and free from cracks or 
f lults of' any kind, and has ihe property of welding in a most 
remarkable degree. . 

Phillip's FiUK Anmuilatob. -Consists of a case containing 
•water, within whicli is a smaller case containing eiilorate of pot- 
nsh and sugar. Dipjjed in the latter is a small tulio conlainiiig 
Bulphuric acid i when this lube is broken llu chlorate of notuiill 



;•, i I 



MA0niNI8T8i EN0INEER8, AC. RECEinS. 



:i53 



:d I Ivbk n, 
Inn a re ;ent 



and sugar become ignited, throwing off large (luantitiog of mix- d 
LixiM wliicli lire non-BiH)portors of combustion ; tlic action is 
maintained bp the water in tlie outer case becoming heated. Tho 
gases are conveyed to tlie lire by moans of a flexible tube fitted 
with a proper nozzle and stop-cock, I have seen still another 
kind constructed of copper in quite an elegant stvle, fitted with 
shoulder straps, &c., for easy transportation, in wuicli the goeea 
wore generated by means of chem'cnls on tuc ])rincii)lo of what 
may be seen every day in tho effervescence of carbonic acid gaa 
(rem the intermixture of seidlctz jiowders in water. The chemicals 
being introduced from wliite and blue paper packages into tho 
water contained in the copper case. 

To RiiMtDY Slip of Dkivino Hklth. — Dab on a little of the 
Bticky oil which oozes away from the Ix-arings of machinery. 

To Bend Coi'I'ku and Uhass 1'ipks. — Run melted lead into your 
pipe tin full, and you may tlien bend it gradually into any sliapo 
you choose, the pipe may then be heated and the lead melted and 
run out again. 

UoniNO Gun Baurels. — Take a piece of rod, cast steel, | inch 
smaller than the interior of the barrel, and a few inches longer, 
beat one end up something larger than the size of bore, then turn 
or file it in the sliape of an ecg, leaving the swell, or centreing 
part l-20th of an inch larger than the bore. With a saw file, cut 
longitudinal cuts, i^ih inch apart, laying tlum the same angle as a 
rose bit countersink, taking care not to injure tlic perii)hery of the 
tool ; harden and temper to straw color. 

DiuLLiNO Cfiina, Glas^, &o. — To drill china use a copper drill 
and emery, moistened with spirits turpentine. To drill glass, use 
a steel drill tempered as hard as possible and camphor and water 
us a lubricant. 

Mallet's Brass. — Copper 25-4 ; zinc, 74 G, Used to preserve iron 
from oxidizing. 

To PiiKVKNT C0RU.0S10N IN Lead Pipes. — Pass a strong solution 
of sulphide of potassiimi and sodium through the inside of the 
pipe at a temperature of 212, and allow it to remain about ten or 
tifteeu minutes. It converts the inside of the pipe into an Insoluble 
sulphide of lead and prevents corrosion. 

To Enamel Copper Vessels. — Pulverise finely 12 parts of fluor 
spar, 12 parts of unground gypsum, and 1 part borax, and fuse 
together in a crucible ; when cold, mix with water to a paste, and 
apply to the interior of the vessel with a paint brush ; when dry 
tno vessel should bo thoroughly baked in a muffle or furnace. 

Shoeino of Houses. — As many parts of the horse's hoof are 
more tender then others, in the c^ise of guch animals as have very 
tender feet, it is the province of the shoeing smith to give case to 
such pnrts and to throw the weight more upon those jtarts which 
are better calculated to support it, thug assisting nature in all her 
operations, in the animal economy. The horse in raising the fore 
foot for extension, the stress is put upon the flexor muscles, — in 
particular, the Flaor 2>'''ii^ perforuns, the tendon of Which is insert- 
ed into ]iostcrior tart of the OS pedis, or bone at the foot. Tfee 
loTio-er the toe oi^ the Shoe, ai*d strui'ghL the grcuter lorerajf© Js 
Mquircd against the unyicldinjj edge of the toe. By keeping tlio 





1 

'II ' 


i 

* 



A 



J^,, 






Vim 






' i 



254 MACHINISTS, ENGINEEBS, &0., RECEIPTS. 



f i 



.;: ^' 



toe a moderate length, and turning up the toe of the shoo a little, 
it allows the foot to be easily rotalod, consequently less stress is 
tlirown upon the flexor muscles and tendons, and more particu- 
larly upon tiie tendon at that [lart when it passes over the navi- 
cular bone ; it thus lessens the tendency to navicular disease, 
and, if so affected, this mode of shoeing will give great relief. 

PoKTAULE TuuKisii Batii.— Make a small circular boiler of 
copper or tin, and fit the same into an upright tin stand, iu which, 
directly under the boilor, you must leave an t^ptrtnre to contain a 
small spirit lamp. The boilci- lid must fit tightly and be provided 
with three small tubes pointing upwards. The boiler being filled 
with water and the lamp lighted, as soon as the steam gets up, it 
ruslies through these tubes,and the patient, seated on a cane chair, 
with his or her feet in a pan of warm water, with a suitable cloak 
tightly fastened around the neck, is speedily enveloped in a cloud of 
Bteam. Ten minutes i-. the time recommended for the duration 
of the first few baths. It may be afterwards increased, but not 
beyond half an hour. On getting out of the cloak, plunge into a 
cold bath for a few minutes, then rub the ski:i till it is quite dry 
and glowing with a coarse towel and a pair of good hair-gluves. 
Persons in health or disease will experience a wo derful recupcra- 
tivo power in the frequent use of this bath, and all will find it in- 
comparably superior to the use of drugs in any form whatever. In 
this connection a new and very ingenious invention called Spokoio 
PiLi.vE, is deserving of favourable mention It consists of wool and 
small ])Mrticles of sponge felted together, and attached to a skin of 
India-rubber, the whole about half an inch in thickness, and of 
inestimable value as a means of applying cold or tepid water &c., 
to such exterior parts of the human frame iis may be nearest to the 
seat of pain or di.^ease. The water is sponged over the felted sur- 
face, the surplus, if any, wiped off; it is tlien jdaced on the skin, 
and covered over with several folds of bandages, which assist in re« 
taining the heat and moisture, llius attracting healthy blood totlio 
part, from wliich nature selects such food as is most conducive to 
expel dise.'ise nnd build up healthy tissue. Nothing is so conducive 
to healtli of l)0(ly, nnd tlie eradication of disease therefrom, as jiure 
water when properly ai)[)lied; aiul in most bi'autiful correspondence 
with natural water we have in the "Water ok Life, or Truths from 
the I)ivine Word, tliat sovereign antidote which alone avLcu 
applied to the life, can cure the malignant diseases of our spiritual 
nature, and purify our affections and thoughts with those hallowed 
inlluenccs which come from a )ove 

l)LAcic Lead Pencils. — The best pencils arc made by grinding 
tlie black U'ad i ito a fine impali)al)le i)owder, then forniii-;:; it into 
blocks by com]Tession without luiy cementing substance, and 
finally sawing it up into the square prisms, which, uiien placed in 
grooves in wood form the black lead pencils of commerce. The 
color can be graduated to any desired tinge by the intermixiure 
of very finely ^n-oinid clay. Wy ti.e process of Pruf. Jirodie, the 
most untraciable graphite may be reduced to the finest jiowdcr 
with gi-eat case. The mineral is coarsely ]iow(lered and mixed 
with l-loth ( f elilorate of jjotash, to which nii.xtiu'e is added twice 
its weight of sulphuric acid. Chloricucid is disengaged, and, after 



losc hiillowed 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C,, RECEIPTS. 255 

the lua^j lifia cooled, it is "well wuslied, dried, and heated to red- 
ness- Kni'Iiig the lilt ior oiiratiiu, the l;hu'k lead swells and bo 
('(yiii: ;3 niMicvtl to so line a [lowd r that ii will sw'in upon water, 

11, liitlu llii le iii' yodiuni ii ii,;ed to dissolve the silicioiis im- 

imriiies Tlie fine.^t qiialily i.-, fo ind ue.-ir lUirruwdale in Cuniber- 
■laud, England. It is nearly pure carbon, aid porfeclly fi'eo tVom 
grit. It is used ])rinci]ially in tljo niauiifacture of lead pen- 
»•»>, lii^i coarser quality bei;ig used, when ground, for polishing 
iron work, ^lazinjj; tfuiiijowder, as a lubricator for tnaehinery, com- 
puiaidi'd wiih f;)ur times its wei<i;ht of lard or tallow, and in tho 
ujanufaelure of crucibles for melting metals, as it is very iitract- 
iible in an intense heat 

To I'oLisii I'l.ASTKR OF Pahis WORK. — Tlic addition of 1 oc 
2 percenl. of many salts, such as alum, sulphate of potasli, or borax, 
coulors upon gypsum the projjcrty of setting slowly in a mas3 
ca[)ahle ol" receiving a very. high polish. 

To M\Kio i'L.\ST'..ii OP i'Aius AS iiAitD A3 MAUBr.E.— The piaster 
is pill in a (liinn, turning horizontally (ai its ax's, and steam 
ailniilU'il from a sleum boiler ; by this means the jjlaslei is nuido 
to absorb in a sliort space (;f time the desired quantity of moisture, 
which can 1)3 regulated with great precision. The plaster thus 
])rei)an(l is tilled into suitable moulds ; ami the whole submitted to 
tiic action of an liydraulic press; when taken out of the moulds, 
the articles are reaily for use, and will be found as hard as marble, 
and will take a polish like it. 

M.fi.iii MuTALM'-iUK. — Is a beautiful crystalline appearance given 
to tin plate by bru.-;ning over the heat.-d iii'til a niix'ure of two 
piU'ts of nitric acid, 2 of hydrocliloric acid, and 4 of water , as soon 
ii3 tl:e crystals app(!ar, the plate is q'lickly. washed, dried and var^ 
nislied. 

.MoriiKU ov PsAia woiik. — This delicate substance requires great 
caro ill its AVorkmanship, but it may be cut with the aid of saws, 
iik'S aud drills, with the airf of muriatic ot sulphuric acid, and it 
is [lolished by colcothar, or the brown led oxide of iron left after 
tlio (hstillat on of the aciil fiom sulphate of iron In al' onia-^ 
ini'iital work, wi.ere ])earl is said to be used, foi tiat "urfiict-s, 
such as inlayini^, mosaic work, &c, it is not '"eal pearl, but mother 
of pe:ul that is used. 

To ro;.isii Peahl. — Take finely pulverized rotten stone and m;iko 
into a thick paste by aclding olive oil then add snlphur'c acid a 
sullieient qmintity to make into a thm paste^, apply cd a velv;t 
cork ; rubcpiickly and, as soonas the pearl takes the ])olish, wash it. 

To Polish Ivouy, — Remove any scratches oi file maiko that may 
be present with finely pulverized i)umi;;,e stone, moistened with 
water. Tllien wasu the ivory and polish with pi'ei)ared chalk, 
ajipl'cd moist ui)ou a piVo of chamois leaiher, rubbing quickly. 

Kk;iosi:nb or Oarhon Oil Mancfactuuk. — Peti oleum or rock oil. 
13 j» litpiid substance, tf a daric co^or, exuding fioin the earth and 
CDDtai u;ig certain li(iuid and solid hydrocarbons such as bi'iizofe, 
or benzine, kerosene, i)aralhne, a'Sphaltuni, etc., m a state ci 
solitioii, in {iiflerent {U'oportioiis. Itdiil'eis greatly in composition, 
some Kainjiies c nitaimug solid paraili leatul l)enzo]e in largi^ qu;ir.- 
titi'js, while otliers do not. Petroleum is separated from its dit- 



ill 



'\^' 



i 5; . I 'I 



h 



, \ 






i 



m; 




i^56 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C.^ RECEIPTS. 



fcrcnt products oy careful distillation at different tempcnturet 
The crude material is lirst heated in a retort to ti temp ratiiro i 
about 100° Ff,h. Tliis causes a light oil of a strong odour lo p, jg 
over into the condenser The residue is then dist,ill d it r.bout 
120° to 160°, the result being burni ig oil. When this is distilled 
off, steam is forced into the retort a id a heavy oil, fit for liibrica. 
ti.ig purposeSj comes ovci, a hlack, tarry mass bei'ig left behind. 
The light oil is now used as mineral turpentine, and as <•, oTjnsc 
solvent It is often of a darlc colol o'liich is easily removed bv 
agitation first with sulphuric acid and .tfterwards with sodsi-lyo 
and water In many instances this light oil (benzine) is sold for 
illuminating purposes uride. th name of Sunlight Oi', Combina- 
tion Burning Fluid, Lightning, Oil, &c I know one gentleman in 
Philadelphia who paid one man over $;J000 for the receipt for 
making, together with the ^ol right to manufacture, vend and 
Bell, a compound of this kind in that city. Tlie curious, or those 
interested will find the receipt under the name of the " Northern 
Light" under the Grocer's Department in this work. Truth requires 
me to state that this article requires to be handled witli great cau- 
tion when used for lighting purposes — many lamentable accidents 
having resulted from a careless use of it. Tne heavy lubricating 
oil, when cooled down to 30° Fall., often yields paraffine in large 
quantities, which is separated by straining and pressure. The 
asphaltum may be used for pavements, or mi.Ked with gre ise as a 
lubiicantfor heavy machinery The most iniportiint jiroduct is, 
however, the burning oil, which is now used as a cheap and 
eificient illuminating agent in nearly every household in this 
country An average sample of petroleum contain-s, accordi g to 
"W. B. Tcgetmeier, 20 percent of benzine or mineral turps, 55 per 
cent, of burning oil, 22 per cent, of lubricating oil, and 8 per cent, 
of carbonaceous and tarry matter. 

Mackintosh Clotu.— The material is mci-ely two layers of cotton 
cemented with liquid India rubber; but the junction is so well 
effected that the three b?corae, to all intents and purposes, one. 
The stout and well-woven cloth is coiled upo'i a horizontal jjeara 
like the yard beam of a loom ; and from this it is stretclii'd out in 
tight state and a nearly honzcntal direction ; n layer of liquid or 
rather paste-like solution is applica witli a spatula, to a consider- 
able thickness, and the cloth is draw i under a knife edge wliich 
Bcr.apes the solution and diffuses it equally over every part of the 
cloth which may be 30 or 40 yards long. The cloth is then ex- 
tended out on a horizontal frnmework to dry ; and wlie i dried a 
second coating is applied in the same way, and a third or fourth 
coat if n«?cossary Two pieces, thus coated, are next placed face to 
facG with great care, to prevent creasing or distortion ; and, being 
placed between two wooden rollers, they are so thoroughly i)resseu 
as to unite durably and permanently. Cloth, thus comonted and 
doubled and dried> maybe cut and made into garments which 
will bear many a rough trial, a id many a deluging, before rain or 
watei can penetrate 

Man'i;factl*hk of Cokn Starcit. — Watl'.f Patent. The corn "^ 
Steeped in wat«r-, rangisg in temporaturc IVoiu TC to MC^ Fully 
Vi' fliboul a wcck^ chaiiging the wabn- al least once in 21 hours. A 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 257 

certain amount of acid fermentatioa is thus produced, causiiifj tho 
starc'i iui'l ivfusa of the c ra t be jasily separated aftorwarda. 
Tlie .-^wolLii coru L gr und ia a irreut ot clear soft water, and 
tliv I'lill' passed t!irougli jievoo, witi: 'he water, into vat3. In these 
the siarcli gradually settles to the bottom, the clear water is then 
run oil' hy i^ tap; and th starch gathered and dried in a proper 
apiirtiiiont for tlie purpose. 

Kkfining of SuCrAii. — Both cane and beet-root sugar are refined 
on tin- siirae principle, by mixture with liraewater, boiling 1th 
animal charcoal, a-id nitration through twilled cotton. In sorao 
establishments bullock's blood is used to aid in the clarifying, 
Tlie alljumen of the serum becomes coagulated on the application 
of heat, forming a network, which rises to tbc the top of the liquor, 
carryii;g with it a great part of the impurities. The reddish syrup 
obtained by the first filtration is next passed through filters into 
larnje vatt>, twelve or fourteen feet deep, upon which are laid coarse 
ticking, coarsely ground animal charcoal, and a second layer of 
ticking. The syrup is allowed to flow over the surface of the filter, 
and rims slowly through the charcoal, coming out perfectly 
colourless. The concentrated syrup is then boiled in vacuo, by means 
of wliicii two importan* results are arrived at. The viscid liquid 
would boil in air at 230" Fah., at which temperature a quantity of 
uncrystallizahle sugar would be formed. By performing the ope 
ration in a vacuum-pan the boiling point is brought down to 150" 
or 100*^, no formation of uncrystallizable sugar takes place, and 
a groat saving in fuel is effected AVhen the concentration reaches 
a certain point, the syrup is transferred to a vessel heated by steam 
to 170^, and forcibly agitated willi wooden beaters, until it forms 
thick and granular. From the heating-vats it is transferred into 
inverted conical moulds of the well-known shape, at tlie bottom of 
each of which is a movable plug. The syrup is well stirred to 
prevent tlie formation of air-bubbles, and then left at rest for se- 
veral lionrs, at the end of which time the idug is removed, and the 
inorystallized syrup runs out, Tlie loaves are further freed from 
all cjlored matter by a portion of perfectly colorless syrup being 
run through them They are then dried in a stove and finished 
for nifirket by bemg turned in a lathe. Crusheil or granulated sugar 
is made by causing tho granular syrup to revolve m a perforated 
drum, by which means the uncrystallizable portion is separated 
from tho crystals by centrifugal force 

TiiR Mariner's Compass — The needle or magnet is said to point, 
rJwr.ys to the north, ..nd as a matter of o .rse the th-r points, as 
east, west, &c.; ar' easily found by the .'^edi • pointing ncrth an . 
south In certain parts of the world, how "iv, *he needlo does not 
point to tlie north, but i.^ drawn considerably he ri*};ht l:ft .. 
true north. This is cahed the variation f th ccmpas:', and m:i, t 
b known accurately by tho navigator in ordor + -correct ndreei; 
til right course For instance in crossing th AtKutic Ocean, 
the variation of the comi)ass amounts in <^ailin'; '■essclf tr 2\ or 2^ 
point' W('sterl«v, ; ud the ccurso steered muct bo orrected accord- 
ingly Say tlii)*- you >vish io make a due east course, you must 
steei 2] or 2:J jioints south of iha^ or to the ri^jht Land iu order to 
'Baka direct course 



m 



m 






i : 



H'^^ 



11 






258 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS 






i . 



1 



Off the Cape of Good Hope in ^he South Atlantic Ocean, strange 
enough, the variation ot the compass iu ships boiuKi to India or 
Austialia is 2 J points easteHy, p,ud in order to make a due east 
course it is necessary to steer 2} to the north or left of her course 
wliile again towards the equator o: ceutre of the glob there ig 
hardly any perceptible variation of the compass at all The way 
of linciing out how much the compass varies in diff'iren pans of 
the world, is by observations ot the sun taken with che ompasa 
and the difference between. the true aid magnetic or compass 
bearing is the variation, which must be appliedas a correction to 
the course steered. We have, liowevor, in iron ships or steamers 
what is called the deviation of the compass to atte id to besides the 
variation. This is the local attx ■ :tion caused by the iron, and 
must be carefully understood before steamers or iron ships attempt 
to go to si'a. As in steamers of the Allan or Cunard line, each 
vessel before proceeding pa. her lir t voyage must be carefully 
swung, and magnets fixed to the d ck, besides small chams placed 
on each side of the comjiasses in bjxes, m order to counteract the 
attraction of the iron. Thus the eompusses are so nicely b lanced 
with the magnets and iron, that it is rare jndeed at this dy that 
they get out of order on a trans-Atlantic passage Th. conse- 
quences to either steamer or sailing ship wlio-;e compasses are 
astray would be terrible to contemplate, even if it wer but onec 
half ])oint, on dark winter nights ajiproaching the and These 
difficulties are now happily obviated by the discoveries f modern 
science, and their application in correcting the compass at sea. 

There are, however, other disturbi'^g agencies constantly at 
work. Heat diminishes the magnetism of the needle ; for this 
reason the best magnetic observatories are kepr under grouud, and 
at a low and uniform temperature the year round. Earthquakes 
and the aurora borcalis are fruitful causes ot irregularity. 
Thunder-storms do no injury except when a vesse) is struck and 
its iron acquires so much magnetism as to affect the correct 
indicatio'.is of the compass on board. When the sun shows a great 
number of spots, or even one very large spot, the variations of the 
needle are greaiest. This is accounted for by two theories ; first, 
the revolving east and west electric current of the earth's crust, 
which are the Ciiuses of the earth's magnetisra, arc caused by the 
solar radiation of he a t,^ before which the earth revolves east and 
west, and this must be allbcted by any change in the solar surface 
by which this, radiation of heat is modified. The second theory 
contends, that inasmuch as we know from discoveries madv. by the 
spectroscope, that tl.e sun contains enormous masses of iron, which 
must, from the intense hca<, be i\ a state of incandescence re- 
sembling a molten oci'an, and a^ such is inacccissible to miignetic 
influences; nevertheless, the solar spots being most likely solid 
islands (composed largely of iron wiiich in this s'ate is suoeptible 
of magnetic influences), floating on tnt, sea of fire, and boitij^in 
ma ly c:ises several hundied tiiix^s larger than our planet, how is 
it jjossible for any otlier than disturbing influiMicfS in the ncedk' to 
proceed from such tn niendous agencies? SmcIi influence-! are 
instantaneous, and do not require time, us light and eouud fw 
instance, for their transmission. 



4 ! 



IPTS 

Ocean, strange 

I'i to India or 

ake a due east 

t of her course, 

glob there h 

all The way 

i'-iren parts of 

ihe ompass, 

ic or compass 

I correction to 

1)3 or steamers 

■ to besides the 

the iron, and 

ships attempt 

lard line, each 

bi) carefully 

chaius placed 

counteract the 

licely b, lanced 

t this d y that 

! Th, conso- 

compasses are 

wp.r but onec 

! and These 

nes f modern 

as3 at sea. 

constantly at 

[cedle ; for this 

er {(round, and 

Earthquakes 

It irregularity. 

I 13 struck and 

ct the correct 

1 shows a great 

iriatious of the 

theories ; first, 

i earth's crust, 

: caused by the 

olvos east and 

solar surface 

second theory 

es madv. by the 

i of iron, which 

uidesct'Dce re- 

>le to magnetic 

ist likely solid 

te IS suceptible 

!. and being in 

planet, how is 

n the ncciilo to 

influences are 

aud Bouud fv.i; 



^ 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 259 

Makixo Anchors. — The anchor smith's forge consists of a hearth 
of brickwork, raised about 9 inches above the ground, aud gene- 
rally about 7 feet square. In the centre ot this is a cavity con- 
taiui'ig the lire. A vertical brick wall is built on one side* of the 
hearlli which supports the dome, and a low chimney to carry ofiF 
tje smoke. Behind this wall are placed the bellows, with wliich 
the fire is urged ; the bellows being so phiced that they blow to 
the centre of the lire. The anvil and the crane by wnicli tho 
heavy masses of metal are moved from and to the lire are 
adjusted near the hearth. The JJercidcs, a kind of stamping 
macliiiie, or thosti'am hammer, need not be described in this place. 
To make the anchor, bars of good iron are brougiit together to bo 
fiiToteit ; the number varying with the size of the anchor. The 
fagot is kept togi'ther by huups of iron, and the whole is placed 
upon the pro{)crly arranged hearth, and covered up by small coals, 
which are tlirowi upon o kind of oven made of cinders. Great 
care and good management are required to keep this temporary 
oven sound during the combustion; a smith strictly attends to 
this. When all is arranged, the bellows are set to work, and a 
blast urged on the fire ; this is cOiitinued for about an hour, when 
a good welding heat is obtained. Tho mass is now br(uightfrom 
the fire to the anvil, and the iron welded by the hammers. One 
portion having been welded, the iron is returned to the fire, and 
the oiieration is repeated until the whole is welded ia one mass. 
The (lill'erent parts of the anchor being made, the arms are united 
to the end of tho shank. Tliis must be done with great care, as 
the goodness of the anchor depends entirely upon this process 
being etft'ciively performed. The arms being welded on, the ring 
has to be formed and welded. The ring consists of several bars 
welded together, drawn out into a round rod, passed through a 
hole iu the shank, bent into a circle, and the ends welded together. 
When all the parts are adjusted, the whole anchor is brought to a 
red heat, and hammered with lighter hammers than those used for 
welding, the object being to give a finish and evenness to iho 
Burfiice. The toughest iron that can be procured should be used 
in anchors. Good " Welsh mine iron " is suitable ; also •' scrap 
iron." 

An anchor of the ordinarj' or Admiralty pattern, the Trotman, 
or Porter s iinpioved (pivot fluke), the Iloniball, Porter's, Aylin's, 
Rodger's, Mitcheson's and Lennox's, each weighing, inclusive or 
stock, 27000 lbs., wit ns food without injury a proof strain of 45000 lbs. 
In dry (/round, Rodger's dragged the Admiralty anchor at both 
long a id short stay ; at short stay, Rodger's and Aylii's gave 
equal resistance ; Mitcheson's dragged Aylin's at both lorg and 
short stay ; and Aylin's dragged the Admirality at short stay, they 
giving equal resistance at louf; stay. In ground under water, 
Trotiiiau's dragged Aylin's, Hon iball's, Mitcheson's, and Lennox's : 
Ayliiia dr.iggfd Rodger's; Mitchison's dragged Rogers, and 
Lfn'io.x'a dragged the Admiralty's. The oreaking weights 
between a Porter and Admiraliy anclior, as tested at the Wool- 
wich Dockyard, were as 43 to 15. 
Piu:<'riNa OS GiiASS.— A Frenchman, named Wilbaux, has taken 



! :/ -i 



w 






», 



* 




I 






m!w 



260 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS, 

out a patent U use an elastic type for printing on g^ if \^\i\ 
fluor3i)ur reiiderc.l adhesive by somo such niatorial as mv />'ge or 
jirintors ink ; sulphuric acid of suitable tcniporatup' is Hit allowed 
to act cTti that portion of the ghiss. The hydroil'ioric • old pen- 
orated in this way -would etch tlio glass on tiie iilaces i)jiiited on. 
Wlieu comuleted, the Avhole is washed uif with warm water aad 
lye. 

ExGUAViNO ON Wood. — In order to make this subject rightly 
iinderstood we will state that the log of box is cut into transverse 
slices, I i ich in depth, in order that the face of the cut may bo on a 
level with the surface of the printers' ty]ie, and receive the same 
amount of pressure ; the block is then alloweti to dry, the longer 
the better, as it prevents accidents by warjiing audsplittiag, wliicb 
sometimes hai)i!en3 after the cut is executed, if too green. Tiie tjlice 
is ultimately trimmed into a square blocic, and if tiie rut is lii:'ge, it 
is made in various pieces and stroiij^ly clampefl and secured to- 
gether. The u()i)er surface of the woi'd is carefully ijrcpared, so 
thai no inequalities ^nay appear upon it, and it i3 thou coisigned 
to the draughtsman to'receivc the drawing IIo covers tho sur- 
face wit'i a light coat of Hake white mixed with weak gum water, 
lud Ihe thinner the coat ilie better for the engraver. Tiio Frencli 
draughtsmen use an abundance of Hake while, but this is liable to 
make the drawing rub out under the eigravcr s bands, or deceive 
him as to tiie depth of line lie is cutting in the wood. The old 
drawings ot' the era of Durer seem to have been carefully drawa 
witli pen and ink on the wood ; but the modern drawing being very 
finely drawn with the pencil or silver point is obliterated easily, 
and there is no mode of '-setting" or securi igit. To obviate this 
danger the wood engraver covers t!io bhjck with pajjor, and tears 
out a small piece to work through, occasionally removing the paper 
to study the general effect. It is now his l)usiness to produce in 
relief the whole ot the drawing; with a great variety of tools he 
cuts avvay the spaces, however minute, bet ween each of the pencil 
lines, and should there be tints waslnd on the drawing to represent 
sky and water, he cuts such parts of th ? i)loek intoii seriesof close 
line.'J, which will, as near as he cai judge, print the same gradation 
of tint; should he find he has tiot don« ko completely, he can re- 
enter each line with a broader tool, cutti'ng away a small shaving, 
thus educing their width and consequently lluir color. Slioula 
he make some fatal error that cannot otherwise bi> rectified, ho can 
cut out the part in the wood, and wedge? u plug of fresh wood in 
the place, when that part of the block can bo le-eugraved. An error 
of this kind in a wond-cut is a very tro.il)lesoine thing; incoiipet 
engraving is scarcely any trouble, a blow wi'h a hammer on the 
back will obliterate tiie error on the face, and produce a iiewsur' 
face, but in wood the surface is c it entirely away except wiieretho 
lines occur, and it is necessary to »„iit it (lec[) e lougli not to touch 
the pa])er, as it is .squeezed thi'ough the jiress u^-on the li as in 
])rinting. To aid the general effect of a cut, it is sometimes ii'iial 
to lower the surface ot the block before the eiigraviiig is oxecutcd, 
in such pe.rtsas should apjie.ar light and delicate ; they thus receive 
a mere touch of tho paper iu the press, the darker parts receiving 



ling'; lu coppei 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIETS. 261 

the whole pressure nnd coming out with double brilliancy. When 
ciuvfiil \>v\ itiiijf is bfstowc'd ou cut- it is snnielimerf usual to insure 
liiis gi'oil efll'C't by biyiiif^ ibiu pieces of card or paper on tlit .ym- 
\KinM' ilio ^iiiii'i- needed, 10 secure pressure on dark parts only. 

I'Ai'Kii FMH UiiALT.insMux, Atc— Powdered tragacanih 1 part, 
water 10 pans ; dis-^olve aud strain through clean gauze ; then lay 
it, siiiouilily uiiun liie i)aper previously stretched upon a board. 
This paper will talce either oil'or water colors. 

To I'lM* BntAW Fou I'Avm AIaking.— The straw is placed in a 
boiler, with a large quantity of strong alkali, and with a pressure 
of steam o(iual to iVoin iLiO to 150 pounds per square inch, the ex- 
treiiio iu'ai i/eiug attained in superheating the steam after it leaves 
the boiler, by passing it througli a coiled pipe over a lire, and thus 
llie silica is ilestroyed, and the straw softened to pulp, which, after 
biiiig fre>(l (rom llio alkali by working it in cold water, is subse- 
quently bleaeiied and beaten in the ordinary rag machine. 

Nk.v r's Foot Dil. - After the liair and hoofs have been removed 
fiom tiic feetof oxen, they yield, when boiled with water, a peculiar 
fatly matter, which is known as At;(it\i Foot Oil-^ after standing, it 
dtpositdsoiue solid fat, which is 8e])arated by filtnition; v.he oil 
theud'cs n(*t congeal at 32©, and is not liable to become rancid. 
Itis ofte 1 iiii.ved u itb other oils. This oil is used for various pur- 
poses, Kiieh as harness dressing, oiling tov/er clocks, &c. 

Tallow OiL. — T le oil is obtained from tallow by pressure, The 
tallow IS melted, a. id when separated from the ordinary impuricies 
by subsidence, is poured into vessels nnd allowed to cool slowly 
toaboutHU® ,wlion the stcarine separates in granules, which may bf> 
separated from the liqiud part by straining through Hauuol, and is 
then jiressed, when it yields a fresh portion of liquid oil. It is used 
in soap manufiicture, &.c. 

L.vuD CbL i.s obtained from hog'3 lard by pressure, when the 
liquid I art sejiarate.s, whde the laid itself becomes much harder. 
According to Braconnet, lard yields 0.G2 of its weight of this oil, 
which is nearly colorless. It is employed for greasing wool, aad 
other purposes. 

Valliooh" FiEL. — With equal weights, that which contains most 
hydrogen ought, in its combustion, to produce the greatest volume 
offlaiuc when each kind is exposed under like advantageous cir- 
ciinisiances. Thus, pine is jireterable to hardwood, and bituminous 
touuihracite coal. To produce the greatest quantity of heat, wood 
should in every case, be us dry as possible; as usually emitloyed it 
hasai)Out 25 per ctnt of water mechanically combined with it, caus- 
ing uu entire loss of tlio heat required for its evaporation. The 
diiroreut volumes of oxvgen required for difl'erenl kinds of coal vtir- 
ies from 187 to 3 ll)s. iov each lb. of coal. (JO cubic feet of air is ne- 
cessary to furnish 1 lb. of oxygen. Making a due allowance for loss, 
iiearly 90 cubic feet of air are requhed in the furnace of a boiler for 
each lb ()foxygena|)plicd to the combustion. Anthracite coal. Expe- 
riments |)rove the evaporative ]ower of this coal in the furnace of a 
steam boiler to be from 72 to d^ lbs. of fresh water per lb. of coal; 
with Ciinnel or I'd rmt coal the result was G to 10 Um. of fresh water 
under a pressure of 30 lbs. per square inch, for 1 lb. of coal. JJitu- 



m 



•• •» 



:.' *l 





%■■ 




!'; 



232 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., RECEIPTS. 

minotia coal burns readily, and generates stoam rapidly, leaving a 
Tvhito ash ; Caking/ coal is unsiiited when great heat is required as 
the dmught of a fiirmice is impeded by its caking, but it is appli- 
cable tor the produc'tiou of gas and coke ; Splint or llardcual kin, 
dies less readily than caking coal, but wlicr. ignited produces a 
clear and iiot tire ; fJUer-i/ or !Soft coal dues not fuse when heated is 
very brittle, ignites readily, and produces a brightfire with a clear 
yellow flame, but cou:iurne3 rapidly. The limit of cvaporatioajTrom 
212" for 1 lb. of the best coal, assummg all of the heat evolved 
froi 1 it to be absorbed, would be 14'9 lbs. The evaporative power 
of Coke in the furnace of a steam boiler, and under pressure, is 
from 7i to 8^ lbs. of fresh water, per lb of coke; that of charcoal 5i 
lbs. offresh water per lb. Wood will furnish, when properlycliarred, 
23 per cent of charcoal. The slower the charring process goes on 
the greater the production. The evaporative power of 1 cubic foot 
of pine wood %•*■ equal to that of 1 cubic foot of fresh water; or, ia 
the furnace of a steam boiler, and under pressure, it is 4i[ lbs. fresh 
water for 1 lb. of wood, une cord of hardwood and 1 cord oUoJt 
wood, such as the general average in Canada, is equal in evapora- 
tive elfects to 2000 lbs. of anthracite coal. One cord of the kind of 
wood used by American river steamers in the West, is equal to 12 
bushels. (9G0 lbs.) of Pittsburg coal ; y cords cotton, ash and 
cypress vood are equal to 7 cords yellow pine. The densest woods 
give the greatest heat, as charcoal generates more heat than flame. 
The evaporative power of peat in the furnace of a stea.n boiler,and 
Under pressure, is 3^ to 5 Ihs. offresh water for every lb. of fuel. 
Bituminous coal ia 13 per cent more effective than coke fore^^ial 
weights, and ill England the etfecrs are alike for equal costs. In 
an experiment under a pressure of 30 lbs. 1 lb. pi le wood evapora- 
ted 3.5 to 4-75 lbs. water, 1 lb. Leliigli c jal, 725 to 8 75 lbs. The 
least consumption of coal yet attained is U lbs. per indicated hors- 
power. It usually varies in different engines from 2 to 8 lbs. Rail- 
way experiments demonstrate 1 ton uf Cumberland coal, ('2240 lbs) 
to be equal in evaporating effect to 1-25 tons of anthracite coal, and 
1 ton of anthracite to bo equal to I 75 cords pine wood; also that 
2000 lbs Lackawanna coal are equal to 4500 lbs. best pine woods. 
Blowing Enoixes for Smeltinh. — The volume of oxygen inairis 
different, at ditfereiit tomporatures. Thua dry air at 85'^ coutains 
10 per e.'nt less oxygen than when it is at tlie temperature of Si' 
ami when it ic saturated with vapor it contains 12 per cent less, 
[fanaveragesupplyof 1500 cubic fcetper minute isrequired iuwin- 
ter, I o5i) feet will be required in summer. I n the mahutacturc od'ig 
Iron, with Coke or Anthrtcite coal, 18 to 20 tons of air are requir- 
ed for each ton ; with Charcoal, 17 to 18 tons are req-iired foreiftb 
ton, (1 ton of air at 340"= 29 751,and atG0»=^31 SGQcuiicfeeQTk 
Pressure ordinarily required for smelting purposes is equ^l to a col-, 
nmn of mercury from 3 to 7 inches. The capacity of the Kc^ervoir 
if dry, should be 15 tiinos Ihat of the cylinder, if single acting, and 
10 limes if double acti.ig. Tlie area .of the i'</>e» leading to the 
reservoir should be -2 that of the blast cylinder, and the velocity of 
the air should not exceed 35 feot per second. A ton of i)igiroa 
requires for its reduction from the ore 310,000 cubic feet of air, or 



!IPT8. 

pidly, leaving a 

t \ii required, ag 

but it ia appi;.- 

_ ILirdcnal kin- 

Ited produces a 

vvlien heated, ia 

fire with a clear 

aporation, from 

»e heat evolved 

aporativo power 

der pressure, is 

It of c7wrco(;/5jt 

roperlycharred, 

process goes on, 

r of 1 cubic foot 

;sh water ; or, ia 

t is 4:^ lbs. fresh 

ud 1 cord of m/i! 

qual ia evapora* 

rd of tlie kind of 

it, is equal to 12 

cotton, ash and 

le densest woods 

lieat than flame, 

jtea.n boiler, and 

every lb. of i-uel. 

n coke fore^..al 

equal costs. In 

le wood evapora- 

to 8 75 lbs. The 

?r indicated liors- 

;i 2 to 8 lbs. Rail" 

d coal, (2240 lbs) 

Lhracite coal, and 

wood ; also that 

)est pin-j woods. 

if oxygen in air is 

r at 85'^ coutaina 

raperatiirc ofSi" 

12 per cent leas. 

3 required in win- 

inulacturcof/'j]^ 

of air arerequir- 

required forerfCh 

36cui>c/eet.) The 

is equfJ to a col-, 

7 of the Reservoir 

ingle acting, and 

a leading to the 

id the velocity of 

. ton of i)ig iron 

Die feel of air, or 



MACrilNISTS, ENGINEBRS, &0., RECEIPTS. 263 

6'3 cubic feet of air for each pound of carbon consumed. Pressure, 
7 lbs. per square inch. An ordinary Eccentric Fan, 4 feet in diame- 
ter V itii 5 bhidos 10 inches wide, and 4 mches in length, set 1-9-16 
inches eccentric, with en inlet opening of 17"5 inches in diameter, 
and an oiitlctoi 12 inches square, making 870 revolutions pci min- 
ute, will supi)ly air to 40 tuyeres, each of 1| inches in diamier, and 
at a pressure per square inch ot 5 inch of mercury. An ordmarjr 
eccentric fan blower, 50 inches in diameter, running at 1000 revo- 
lutions per minute, will give a pressure of i5 inches of water, and 
req'.ire for its operation a power of 12 horses. Area of tuyere dis- 
charge 500 square inches. A non-condensing engine, diameter of 
cylindt-r 8 inches, stroke of i)iston 1 foot, pressure of steam 18 lbs. 
(mercurial gauge), and making 100 revolutions per minute, will 
arive a fan, 4 feet by 2, opening 2 feet by 2, 500 revolutions per 
minute. The width and length of the blades should be at least 
equal to } or | the radius of the fan. The inlet should be equal to 
the radius of the fan ; and the outlet, or discharge, should be ia 
depth not less than ^ the diameter, its width being equal to the 
width of the fan. Wiien the pressure of a blast exceeds .7 inch of 
mercury per square inch, .2 will b3 a better proportion for the 
width and length of the fan than that abov« given. The pressure 
or density of a blast is usually measured in inches of mercury, a 
pressure of 1 lb. per square inch at 60° = 2-0376 inches. When 
water is used as the element of measure, a pressure of 
1 lb. ■ 27G71 inches. The eccentricity of a fan should be 
1. of its diameter. A Smith's forge requires 150 cubic feet of air per 
minute. Pressure of blast |^ to 2 lbs. per square inch, 1 tonof iroa 
melted per hour in a cupola, requires 3500 cubic feet of air per min- 
ute. A Jinery/ori/e requires 100,000 cubic feet of air for each toa 
of iron refined. A blast furnace requires 20 cubic feet per minute, 
for each cubic yard, capacity of furnace. 

Gold Mining inColouado— From the veins of Gilpin County alone 
nearly GOO tons of ore are raised daily, or 180,000 tons annually. 
Nearly 600 lodes have been assayed or mapped in a circle of three 
miles in diameter; fully a thousand lodes have been recorded, 
and more or less work performed on each. From fifteen to twenty 
miles of reputable lodes are known to exist, upon which there i3 
not less than eight miles of shafting, the deepest being 800 feet. 
There is not less than 20 miles of drifting on these veins, follow- 
ing the ore deposit in the crevices, and the official assays show 
tiie ore to be worth from $40 to $130 per ton. The tailings, or 
refuse of ore put through the stamps, are found to be worth 
$20 per ton, notwithstanding fiom 10 to 20 per cent of the precious 
metal passes down the stream. The average shipments of bullion 
from this one countv verges on $2,600,000 annually. The ma- 
chinery required for this immense production consist of 83 stamp 
mills, 185 engines in place, 4,367 horse power, and 1,597 stamps, of 
which there are over 800 in use, req .iring 1,703 horse power. 
There are 39 engines used at the shafts of mines for raising ore 
frc-ra the veins and keeping them free from water. These milla 
contain from 5 to 50 stamps, mostly driven by steam. The ore, 
broken into fragmouts, is fed into a battery ia which the stamps 



J,, ■' 






i' 






#■' 




2G-1 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, AC, RECEIPTS. 



arc raised and allowed 1o fall, crushing the ore fine onoiu'h to 
Huw tiucHJ^ii a, .screoii |ilaced in fVoiil Morcury is f"ii in iliijijm. 
tury, iiiid til'-' puvorizt'd ore mixed with suliiciciit water is then 
uuido to liow over u ide plates of copper amalffiiiiiuted with (|ui(lr. 
eilv; r. Tlie gold, or purl of it, adheres, forming- an ainiU;,'am with 
the nicrcuiy, which id ufterward^J b raj)ed oil", sipkc/.fd hani and 
the lump rotorti d in :., close retort of iron for the piirjioae of 
vajiori/.iag the niorcury and ge'tiug" the gold almost jiure ; tho 
retorts being subsecpieiitly shipped to the Kasl for minting. Kach 
stamp is calculated to do from i to J of a ton in 21 hours, requiring 
about cue hurso i)ower to each stamp liead. Moat of the oie i;j re- 
duced ill lastHl mills abandoned by ci'Uipanies. These mill iut.'n 
?hargc their c.istomers between ijSH and ^-l per ton for doini,' thij 
work and returning the retort of gold. The tailings are partially 
caught in tli'^ best mills on blankets, and reworked at a i)iulit; 
the bulk, however, jiasscs outside, a jiortion stopping to be shovel- 
led into a pile, the balance going o.i to the s treani. The waste is 
nearly or quite equal to the gi oss yielit in bullion. The most pro- 
fitable branch of vein mining and reduction by the mneltii'jj proem 
was undertaken by Prof. Hill in 18G7, in conii<'Ction with some 
Boston and Providence capitali-^ts, ami is managed with much 
ability, energy and skill, co'npeusated* by enormous prohts,of wliieh 
the outside public know little or nothing, from the vi|.Mlanct! with 
which all such information is supressod. From the road side you 
seo from 20 to 30 piles ot ore sending ft>rlh suli)liurou3 enianaliuna 
into the air. These j'iles are lirsl started on a layer of wodd, and 
are run up in a pyramid form some 5 to feet, with a diauuiter 
at base of from 16 to 20 feet, and then fired, the sul[)hur all'jiding 
the only fuel, after the exhaustion of the wood, to keep the tire 
going from four to six weeks. This ore has been passed through 
the sampling works and been paid for, the amount lying thus in 
piles ai one lime umounting to, perhaps, .'i^so.ooO. Alter roastiug 
suCiciently to drive off the sulphur, and oxidize a portion of the 
iron, these piles are cooled and the or« carried to the smeltiuj^ fur- 
naces, where, under a heavy heat, more Buli)hur is driven otf, and the 
silica or gangue matter is made to unite with the oxide of iron to 
forma slag. At the end of the smelting some 8 or 10 toiia are 
thus reduced to one called " matte," containi'.ig from Slir'''^ to 
$2,000 in the precious metals, and from 40 to (JO per cent of cop- 
per. This product is then ship[)ed in bags to Swansea, Enuland, 
for separation into the several metals coitauied. The establish- 
ment contains three smelting furnaces and turee calcining fur- 
naces, capable of reducing from 20 to 25 ions of ore per day. The 
tailings which are concentrated along the streams, and are also 
sold to this establishment, average from $35 lo $40 per ton. 
These works are doubtless the most profiiable of the kind known 
in the world. In working tolerably high grade suliiliiirctteo 
ores, if the facilities do riot admit of sending them lo England, tin 
best way is to erect a common furnace, having iho fire surfaces o 
good soap stone ; then, to every 15a ll)s of orc^ put in one bushel 
of charcor.l and 10 percent of salt. The ore will readily melt, tof 
slag, aad will be pretty well desulphurized. The slug cau bf 



'>it l)'liu; tllO 



aiisea, Enuland, 



.M \<lilNl,ST.S, ENiilNLLllH, \r., UEi'fc:! l'T«. 2(55 

(liaaii III)', and wlicii cold cuu be broken up and worked like freo 

iroM Ol'C. 

To IvKiKAcr Sii.VEU FiioM Wastk Prouhots. — Mix your refuso 
witli an ('iiual (|niintity of wood charcoal, place in a crucible and 
Hiiliiiiit ti) u l)ri;,'lit red heat, and iu a short time u 'jilvcr button 
\u\\ ill' toHiid at liie bottom. 

Kncovkhino SiLVKU BY TUB pATio Proces?'. — The oppration 
kiiiiwu hy this name ia Bometimos conducted on an immense 
Ki:iK'. In one instance at the hacienda of Rcgia near Keal de 
ildutc, lluiie is an cdtablishment tlie floor ot which in 1^ acrea in 
oxl<^iit, l>iiilt in the mo3t substantial manner^ slightly sloped to 
fitcili'iitf tlie flow of water. The H(joring consists of well matched 
])im' l)i)aiil:i, ami this vast receptacle sometimes contains as mucli 
as infm tons of argentiferous slime, 30 tons of salt, 3 Ions sulphate 
of coiti"'!', 'I'ld lH,()oo lbs. of mercury in various stages of the 
iMnali^'.iniatmg process. The reason why this takes plare in the 
well known manner is because there is an affinity or correspon- 
(\i'<]cu lu'tween the different ingredients employed in theo|)cration. 

O.s CoumospONDKNCES. — Tho correspondence referred to above 
cimsists of a nature inseminated or impl.'inted in each substance 
bv the Ai.MioiiTV Auouitkct of the Creation, by virtue of whicii 
siicli a mutual afhuity or sympathy exists bi^tween them that 
wluMK-'Vfr an iutermi.vturo takes place, they as it wero attract 
each otiier, and rush together iu a mutual embrace. Tho science 
of cinvspoudences is a most wonderful au(i instructivo study, 
entering, in its varied ramifications, so deeply into tho inherent 
rmtun- of every created thing, that there is notliing, and can be 
uotliiug m the universe but what comes within its consideration. 
Tlio transceudant importance of the subject is such tiiat it is 
desiMviii'jf (if vastly more elaborate consideration than tho transient 
notice of a single paragraph, but a-» it would bo n violalion of 
order to cut'-r into a:i extended explanation in thi.9 place, tho 
roiuler IS refi'rred to tlie appendix for fnrtiier illustration. 

Miiitci'nv OR QuiOKsiLVEU. — TliO ore is cinnabar of a bright ver- 
niilinn color, its specific gravity is 80'j.S. It is produced in 
imiiieii>o ([uaiitities at tho New Almaden mine in Santa Clara 
County,!^ miles from the. town of tSan Jose, which is f)4 miles 
from .San Francisco, Cal. The process by which ths fluid metal 
is extracted is one of great simplicity. Tiiero aroG furnaces, near 
wliicli tile ore is lieposited from the mine, and Eej>aratod according 
to its tpiality ; the larger masses are tirsl broken up anJ tlu-u all is 
piled lip under sheds near tiie furnaco doors. The ore ia next 
heaped oii tlic furnaces, and a .sleady though not a strong fire is 
applied; as tiie ore becomes heated the quicksilver is sublimed, 
and l)eing condensed it falls by its own weight, and I'J conducted 
by pipes, whicu lead along the bottom of the fui'uace to small 
pots or reservoirs imbedded in the earth each containing from 
1 to 2 gallons of the meta . .' ) e fu naces are kept going night 
iiml (lay, while large drops or minute streams of the pure laetal 
aie conslanlly trickling down into the receivers; from there it is 
rarrie.d to (lie stju'e house and deposited in large cast iron tanks or 
Tills, the largest of which is capable of coiiUvining iJO tons of 






'. I 



n 1 






m 



Ik 



200 MACIIINIbTH, ENOINEEIIS, Af., arCEII'TS, 









! 



1 1'' 



M 






il 
lit 

II 



If 



qiiicksilvcr. Seven or ciplil <liiys art' r((jiilroil to llll tin' funin,.,,^ 
extract the oi.icksiilvi'r and reuune lliu ivriuliunn. TIk; inincis iind 
those who merely hiuullc the quicksilver are not injiiit;(l tlicinbv 
but those who work about th'-' furnaces and inliule llie fmncsoi 
the metal are seriously afl'ected. Salivation is cunuuoii, ami th,. 
attendants on the furnaces aro cenip'dletl to uesist fniiu their 
hib-iur every three or four weekSj who-^. a fresh set ui liiiiids is |ni; 
on. '>,'he l.orses and mules ftr^ cilso sa'ivated, and fro:.i lio io30'f 
them di'j every year from theclfects of the mercury. 

Cuocus I'owDEii J oil PoLi.siiiNtj.— Chlorido of sodium and Cjjo 
phato of iron are well mixed in a mortar. The mixture is then niii 
into a shallow crucible and exposed to a red heat v vap' r csca'pu 
and the mass fuses. When no more; vapor ',iit peSj rvuiov ih^ 
cruciblo and let it cocl. Tiic color of the oxide f ir Ji pnHluceil 
it the fire has been j)roperly regulated, is a line violet; if tlio heat 
Las been too high it becomes black. The mass when cold is tohij 
powdere..^. and washed, to Bei>arate the sulphate ot soda. Tho 
powder cf crocus is then to be submitted to a process of ciuefiil 
clutrip^tion, r.nd tho liner particles reserved lor tho more dclicalt 
work. An excellent powder for apjylying to razor stro|)s i,^ made 
by igniting together in a crucible, e(pu>d parts of well diid green 
Yitrol and common salt. The h at musl be slowly raiHod anil well 
regulated, otherwise the materials will boil over in a pasty stale, 
and be lost. When well made, out of contact with air, it'lias the 
brilliant aspect of black lead. It refj'ures to he ground audelutri. 
ated, after which it affords, on dryin<(, an impalpable powder, tliiit 
may be either applied on a strop of smooth bu(f leather, or mixed 
up with hoi/ '.f lard or tallow into a i;tilf cerate. 

Ckmentin(J Emkuv to Wood. — .Melt together ecpial parts of 
shellac, white resin and carbolic acid in crystals; add the last after 
the others are melted. 

To Coat Iiion with Emeuy. — (Jive the iron a good coat of oil 
and white lead, then when this gets hard and dry, apply a mixture 
of glue and emery. 

To Clean Cottov "Tv aste. — Pack the waste in a thi cylinder 
with a perforated false bottom and tube withsto])-cock at boitum. 
Pour on the waste bisulphide cf carbon suflicient to cover, and 
allow to soak a few minutes, then add more bisulphide, .ind ku on 
for a time or two, and then squeeze out. Ijy sinqde di-tillatiuii. 
tho whole of the bisulidiide, or nearly all, can easily be iccovcieu 
and so be used ovei again This will iroe tje cotton completely 
frova grcasfc. 

Blovv^ing out Steam Boilers. — This slioula never be done under 
steam pressure. The safety valve should first be raised until the 
pressure ic c.\\ removed by letting the steam escape as rapidly as 
possible, thcnthe hand bole jdate or other device should be opened, 
and the dirt r.,nd sediment will rim out with the water. IJut if the 
boiler is allowed to cool ofl, the dirt will settle to the bottom and 
be fastened on with the heat. The dirt is always on the toii of tlie 
water when there is any pressure of steam on it. 

BoiLKB Scale. — Sal soda, 40 lbs., gum catecha, b lbs., sal am- 
mouiac lbs., is stronglv recommended by an experienced persou 



! ! 



KIF'TS. 

1 

HI till' furnace?, 

TIm; iiiiimrs iuiii 

injiirtMl tlKU'uby, 

lalo the Ciiincsor 

omiuoii, and Hi,. 

enist fruiti their 

t oi' liainls is |iii; 

fro;.i lio lo3()'f 

sodium nnH ;;j], 
xturo is then niii 
X \ \a\y V cscaiitj 
\wn, rviiiov ill, 
f ir 41 liroilunMJ, 
uk't; ifliic; Jicut 
iieii cold iri tobij 
ot rtodll. Tin; 

rocess of careful 
ic more (lelicatt 

ir strops i,-^ made 
well (lii'd green 

y riiined and well 

in IX pasty state, 
til air, it'has the 

roiiinl audeliitri. 

-bli' powder, tlial 

leatlior, or mixed 

equal jiarts of 
idd tlie lastfifler 

^00(1 eoat of oil 
I apply a mixture 

a a tin cylinder 
-cock at boitoin, 
at to cover, and 
pliide, and su on 
iiple distillation, 
lily ho i-ecovereii 
•tton completely 

:;r ho done under 
raised until the 
pe as rapidly as 
!iould he opened, 
ater. JJutiftiie 
the bottom and 
un the top of the 

, I) lbs., sill am- 
tenenceu persou 



MAi'llFNlSTH, ENQINEEUS, .VC, RKCKIPTS, 207 



fur iviiiiiviii^' boiler scale, one j)ound of the mixture beiti<,' addfil to 
i.hli h.inil (»f Wilier in the lank ; after Hcule is nmioved use sal 
[■.)d:i iil'iin'. \'>y llie urff of 10 Ibj. soila per week a boiler '!>', feet 
ion"' and l^ i;iclied diuuieter was cleaned from HcaUseipial to n new 

iHiiltT. 

\Iii,iii:w ON Haii.v can l)e prevented by soajnnff the mildewed 
part> auil then rul)t»ing in powdered (dialk. The jfrowlh of the 
nuldew fuMi,nis can l>e prevented by steepiiifj the canvas in an 
aqiii'oiis solution of corrosive sublimate. Anolhf:r u'di/. Slacked 
liine '1 hiisliels, draw olF the lime Avater, and mix it with lliO fals. 
water, mid with blue vitriol \ 11). 

To .Mk.M) (JiiACKKiJ (Ja8t-1iio\ Vessels. — Drill a hole at each ex- 
treme end of the crack, to [irevent its further extension, jilu^^ rivet 
tlie holes with copper, and, with fine iron lilinjfs .'Saturated with 
nriiie, 'Miilk the crack. Four parts of piilveri/eil clay and ont; 
|jarl i»f iron filiiif^fs made into a. paste witli Ijoiliiifjf linseed oil and 
a|)|dieil hot is a jrood cement for the same purpose. 

I'hkncii Plttv. — Seven pounds linseed oil and t lbs. brown 
umber are boiled for two hours, and ti'i grammes wax stirred in. 
After removal from the (ire .'iA lbs. fine chalk and 11 ll)S white lead 
lire added and thoroughly incorporated ; said to be \{ivy \mv'\ and 
|ieriiiaiieiit. 

Platino with Nicket, may be efTected by placing the object to bo 
{dated, either of iron, steel, copper, bronze, zinc or lead, in u 
boiling;' neutral solution of zinc chloriile containing a salt of nickel 
and granulated zinc. If the zinc solution is acid, the coating of 
nickel is dull. A platinjrr of cobalt may be made in the same 
manner. 

FiMo Di-tG Finish for Gun Ratiuels. — Apply nitric acid and let 
it eat into the iron a little ; then the latter will be covered with a 
thin hliu of oxide. Clean the barrel, oil and burnish. A vcr}' fine 
ap|)earaiice is given to gun barrels by treating them with dilute 
nitric acid and vinegar, to which has been added sulphate of 
I'oitper. The metallic coi)per is deposited irregularly over the iron 
surfiiee ; wash, oil and rui) with a hard l)rush. 

Li«iiiL) I>i,a(;k Lead Polish. — IJlack lead pulverized 1 lb., iur- 
pentiiie, 1 gill, water, I gill, sugar 1 oz. 

Coi'i'iniAs Dii' Koii Cast Ikon. — Dissolve " iba. o^ snl' IntwO ot 
cojiper and add 2 fluid ozs. sulphuric acid. 

To If.Mmu.v Mktai-s. — Iron, (50 parts, chrome, 40 partii. form ;> 
composition us hard as the diamond. A Ingh degree of hardness 
may also be imparted to iron or steel by adding \ part of silver. 
Copper may be externally hardened by the fumes of zinc and tin. 
The .specula of Lord Itoss's telescope is ) part tin and 1 part 
copj)er, this is as hard as 'Ucel, and take.? a very high polish: if 
ffioif, than this be added it will scarcely cohere. 

Good 1>ra89 for Machinery, — 1. Copper, 2 lbs-, tin, 2^ ozs., zinc, 
\ oz. l. Tough Brass. Copper, 10 ozs , tin, 1^ ozs., zinc, 1^ /ozg. 
3 Wheels and Valves. Copper, !)0 lbs., tin, 10 lbs. 4. JJniss, vcrii 
ienaciniiK. Cop])er, 88.'.) parts, tin, H .'5 parts, zinc, 2.8 parts. 5. 
LiUhe liushe:!.. Copper, iSO parts, tin, 20 parts. Machinenj Barings. 
Topper, 88 parts, tin, 12 parts. 



,>'< 



■ i 



TPW? 



. ;<•■* 



Ju8 



MAGUmiSTS, ENOINEEUS, AC, UECElPTS. 



i 



i ' i 



Paint fou Shbikt Iron Smoke Pipe. — Good varnish J gallou 
boiled linseed oil ^ gallon, add red lca,d sufficient to bring to the 
consistency of common paint. Apply with a brush. Applicable 
to any kind of iron work exposed to the weather. 
r Black Color on Buass Wokk. — Make a strong solution of nitrate 
of silver in one dish and nitrate of coj)per in another. Mix the two 
together^ and plunge in the brass. Now heat the brass evenly till 
the required degree of dead blackness is acquired. Unrivalled as a 
beautiful color on optical instruments. 

I ' Metallic Batu fou Tbmi'BUINxj. —Use a black lead or cast iron 
crucible, (of the requisite depth) and place the same, filled with 
lead, on a fire made of coal or charcoal, and surrounded on all 
sides by a metallic or brick wall, level, or nearly so, with the top 
of the crucible ; but at a sufficient distance (say 5 or (i inches) 
from it to receive the fuel necessary to maintam the fire, in order 
'to keep the lead in a melted state. Let the crucible rest on iron 
bars, and leave apertures to admit air to the fire. Tiie article:;, 
slightly greased to prevent the adherence of oxide, are ininiersed 
.in the melted lead (which is kept at a red heat) by moans of tongSi 
two or three pairs being generally used, in order that one or two 
pieces may be heated while the other is undergoing manipulation 
by the hardening jirocess. Keep the lead covered with cliarcoal 
dust or cinders. This plan is used by many cutlersand file maun- 
facturors for giving the proper degree of heat in the tenitierinf^ of 
'their wares. The process is highly valued by vuoso who uso it 
jBec file manufacture, page 238. 

EPPECTfl OF HEAT ON VAHIOtTS BODIKS. 






Fine Otild mi'lts 2uWU" 

" Silver " 1250 

Copjier melts 2548 

AVrouglit Iron molts H'M) 

QiiJil •< << 34Vy 

Biij;ht rod " iu the dark 752 

lied hot " iu twilij^ht sSl 

felass melts 2377 

VJoiamon firo 71)0 

;5rus8 melts , I'JOO 

Air furimcG SSOl) 

Antimony melts 951 

Bismuth " 470 

Cadmium WO 

isteol 2500 

Lead 5(»4 

Tin 421 



lleut, oheny red. 
briglit 



loiiC 

18(i!) 

red visible by day 1077 

white 2900 

Mercury boils 662 

" volatilizes 680 

Platinum molts 3080 

Zinc melts 740 

Highest natural temperature 

(%ypt) m 

(jireatest natural cold (below 

zero) 66 

mtificiul '• " 166 

Heat of human blood % 

Snow and Salt, equal parts. . . 

Ice melts 32 

Water in rinu* boils OS 

Fiirtif' under ptenm boiler,. . Ifi'1 



C 



SnniNKAQK OF OA8T1NVJ3. 



hi, 



Iron, small oyliud's—l-lOtli in. per ft 

j" Pipes - - i " "It. 

•' tifrdors, beams, 

cct - iJ iu. in 15 ni.s. 

" Lar>,'C cylind- 
ers, tlio con- 
traction of di- 
ameter at top..=: 1-lGtli per foot- 
Ditto nt bottom. ..— 1-1'nb per foot 



Ditto, in louf^th. 

l$ni.ss, thin 

I'.rass, thick 

/iuc 

Lead — 5.1(;tlis 

<"o|>per iT-S-ltitlis 

Uitimuth — 6-32ud8 



in l^S \m. 
in y " 
in 10 " 

- o-IOIhs in afoot 



sirxs. 

Tiiish J gallou, 
to bring to the 
sh. Applicable 

lution of nitrate 

■r. Mix the two 

brass evenly till 

Unriv'alled as a 

ead or cast iron 
aaie, filled with 
[•rounded on all 
so. with tlie top 
y 5 or (1 inches) 
tbo fire, in order 
ible rest on iron 
i. The article^, 
ic, arc inmicrst'd 
' meant) of tongs, 
that one or two 
ng manipulation 
id with cliarcoal 
irs and file mami- 
Lhe tempering of 
uose wiio U30 it 



R3. 

15IIC 

18fJ0 

by day 1077 

2900 

662 

680 

31180 

- 740 

toinneraturc 

.... 117 

cold (below 

66 

'• " 166 

ilood % 

•jual iiarts... 

^ ' 01) 
... Ui 

boils 9S 

ftvim boiler. . I'''"! 



.* in I'i ins. 
.= ' in 9 " 
.^- i in 10 " 
^5-ir>tlis in afoot 

.=:r)-it;ti'is " " 

..x^ 3- Hit lis " " 
..— 6-U2niU " " 



MACrilNISTS, ENCJINEEUS, i-X;., RECEirTS. 1^09 

Groon Sfind iron casliuga are G per eent. stronger than dry, ami 
r,0 per cent, stronger tliaii cliilled, l)ut when the caiting-^ are ciiil- 
led and annealed, a gain of llo j)er cent, is attained over those 
made in gnn-n sand. Chilling tlie under side of cist iron very 
materially increases its strcugtii. 

Iron .MANtjFACTCRE. — Charcoal 138 bushels, limestone 132 Ib.s., 
and ore 2G12 lbs., will produce 1 ton of pig iron. In England, 
temperature of hot blast is GOO", density of blast and of refining 
fiirndce '2h to 3 lbs. per square inch. Revolutions of puddling 
rolls GO per minute ; rail rolls, 100 ; rail saw, 800. 

HOUflK POWER (INl)ICA'iRD) RKQ0IRED FOR DIFFKUKNT PUOCKaSEfl. 



blast 1' uniacn GO 

Kcfiniiif? " 26 

I'mldlinR llolls witli Bqueezer.'i 
and stioarH 80 



Railway rolling train 2(")0 

Small bar train (M) 

JL)oul)l(' rail saw 12 

Straiplitening 7 



One pound of Anthracite coal in a cupola furnace will nudtfrom 
.'■) to 10 lbs of cast iron: Hbu.shels of bituminous coal will melt 1 ton 
of east iron. Small coal produces about ^ of the effect of largo 
real of the same kind 

Vblocitieh op Wood Workint} MAoniNERT. — Cirnilar f^mv.^ at 
periphery, GOOO to 7000 ft. per minute ; liandSaws, 2500 eet ; (A/'i,^ 
Sau'.i,'M inch stroke, 120 strokes per minute; Scroll Siiws, 300 
strokes per minute; l*laning Machine Cutlen at periphery, 4000 tO" 
(WOO feet. Work under planing machine j^ith of an incii for each 
cut. Moulding Machine Cu/fers, 3500 to 4000 feet ; S'/uarinfj-up 
Machine Cntters, 7000 to 8000 feet; iVooJ (Jarviny Drill.", 5000 re- 
volutions ; Machine Augers, \k in. diam.. 900 revolutions; ditto, i{ 
in, diiun., 1200 revolutions; Gang Saws require for 45 superficial 
feet of pine per hour, 1 horse power^ Circular Saia require 75 
siii)erlicial feet per hour, 1 horse power in oak or hard wood Jths of 
the above quantity require 1 horse power; Sharpening Angles (if 
Machine Cutlers. Adzing soft wood across the grain, 30*^, ; J'lan- 
imj Machines J ordinary soft wood 35° ; Gau(/es and I'Loughing 
iltirliines, 40" ; Hardwood Tool Cutters, 50" to 55". 

Fi,oiu Mux Machinery, — For each pair of 4 feetgtonci?, with all 
the necessary dressing machiner}', etc., there is required 15 horse.V 
power. Stones 4 ft. diam., 120 to 140 revcdutions per minute. 
Ihfmng Machines, 21 ins. diam., 450 to 500 revolutions per 
minute. Elevator, 18 ins. diam., 40 revolutions per minute. 
CTei'}icrf,2\ ins. pitch, 75 revolutions per minute Screen, lb ins. 
diam., 3oo to 350 revolutions per minute. 788 cubic feet of water, 
discharged at a velocity of 1 foot per second, are necessary to 
ffrind and dress 1 bushel of wheat per hour— 1.49 horses' power per 
bushel. 2000 feet per minute for the velocity of a stone 4 feet ia 
diam. may be considered a ma.ximum speed. 

Watku. — Fresh Water. The component parts by weight and 
measure is. Oxygen, 88.9 by weight, and 1 by measure, Hydrogen, 
11. 1 by weight, and 2 by measure. One cubic inch of distilled 
water at its ma.ximmn density of 39'\ 83, the barometer at 30 
inches, weighs 252.G937 grs., and it is 828. 5 times heavier than at- 



m 


i[\\- 






hV J 



1^ 



1^ ^ 



ii70 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, xC, RECEIPTS' 



:.n. ( 



1? 



Id. 



mosplicric air. A cubic foot ■weighs 008.008 oimoo-!, (tr 02.:Mr'2r) 
lbs. avoirdupois, but for facility of computation the wclirjit "j^j 
usually taken at IdOO ounces au(l i;i2.5 l!)s. I5y tiie llritisii lin'iiL'i'iiil 
Standanl, the weight of a cubic foot of water at (12'', tiie Ijuronil'. 
ter at 'M in3.=n908.224 ounces. At a temperature of 212" its wcitrht 
is .'"i9.<;2j lbs. Below 39*^. 83, its density decreases at iirst vcm'v 



progressing rapidly to the jjoint of cougelatuni tlie 
ice being but r)7.2ri.3r)' H\ cubic 

ice weigh 
viilume 



slow, but 

weight 01 a cubic f(>ut of 

feet of water weigh a ton. 3913 cubic feet of 

a ton. lliver or camil water contains 2Vth of its 



of gaseous matter; spring or well water v'^th. ^ra W,iter~\ 
cubic foot of it weighs 04.312!"i lbs., 34.83 cubic feet weigli 1 ton. 
>-' a water contains from 4 to Gg ozs. of salt in a gallon of water 
varying according to locality, and G2 volumes of carboiiic acidin 
10(10 of water. l)r„ Arnott estimated the extreme heig.it of the 
waves of an ocean, cut on the oi)en sea .md fnic I^otnany inlliicnco 
of land, to be 20 feet Tlic Fiench exploring expeditioirconipuii.j 
waves of the I'aciiic iobe 22 feet. Tlie avernge force of the wiiveg 
of the Atlantic Ocean during tl\e summer montliH, as (U't(>niiin(d 
by Thomas Stevenson, was CA\ lbs. per scpiare foot ; for tli(! winter 
inontiis, 20HG lbs. During . heavy gale a force of ti;;8:'. lbs. was 
observed. Destructive ep'i'Ct of Sea vntcr i>i>on\)fetaLi anil Alloy'n 
firr SfjfiKire font. ,Steol 40 grs. ; iron 38 ; copper 9 ; zinc H ; galva- 
nized iron 1.5 ; tin 2. 

Waumincj Bi.'iLDiN(is Oi. Apartmknt.s — 7>// low prcxsurc ste.nm {\\ to 
2 lbs.) or hot water. — One square i'oot of i)lalo or i)ip<> surface will 
heat from 49 to 100 cubic I'eet of inclosed sjiace to 75" in alatilude 
where the temperature ranges from — lO'', vir 10° below zt-ro. The' 
range from 40 to 100 is to meet tiie :onditions of expo.sisd or corner 

ed, 

roar. As 
a general rule, 1 s(piare foot will heat 75 cubic feet of air in outer 
or front rooms, and 100 in inner rooms. A'// Jli/jh PrcKnure Stem 
— When steam at a pres.sure exceeding 2 lbs. per square inch is 
used, the space iieated by it will be in proportion to its increase 
of temperature above that pressure less the increased radiation of 
heat in its course to the place >. f aitpiication. One cul)'c, footof 
■water evaporated is required for every 2000 cubic feet of inclosed 
space. 

AsPiiALTio Martic— Ts compo.sod of nearly ptire carbonato nf 
lime and al)out J or 10 per cent, of bitumen. Wiien in a state of 
powder it is mixed with about 7 per cent, of bitumen or mineral 
]>itch. The jxtwdered asj)halt is mi.xed with tiie bitiimeii in a 
melted state along vvitli clean gravel, and consistency is given to 
pour it into moulds. The asphalt is ductile, and has elasticity lo 
enable it, with the small stones sifted upon it, to/i-esist onlinary 
wear. Sun and rain do not affect it, wear and tear do not seeratu 
injure it. The pedestrian in many cities in the United Slates and 
Canada, can readily detect its presence on the sidewalk hy its 
peculiar yielding tt) the foot as he stej)s over it. It is also a most 
excellent roofing material when rightly a|)plied, it being on reeorJ 
iu France that a stout roof of this material withstood the acciileu- 



buildings, of buildings less exi)osed, as the intermediate ones of a 
block, and of rooms intermediate lietween the front am 



RIVTS' 

ci'.^, fir G2.:!Tr.25 
the wciirlit j^ 

lii'itish Iiii]ifrial 

-■', tin- Ijiironic. 

-1-" itswoigiit 

it-'S lit first V(>ry 

•ongelation, the 

.'I'k'A')' ,St cubic 

of ice weij.'h 

of its v(»luiue 
Sea Wiilcr—X 
bet weigli 1 ton, 
galloii (if water, 
ciirbotiic acid in 
10 ht'ig.it of the 
0111 any iiiiliitMioo 
ilitioii ("oni]>uti'd 
rc(3 (if the wavi's 
■^, a-^ (Icloriiiiiu'd 

; for tii(! winter 
of ti:;8;i]hs. was 

Hals and Alloy'f 
; zinc H ; galva- 

surc stfitim (1^ to 
l)ip(> surface will 
Tf)" ill alatitmle 
Miiow zero. Tilt' 
xposnd or corner 
lodiato ones oC a 
lit and rc:n-. .\s 
et of air in outer 
h /'rt:!<Kiire Stf:(im 
r square inch is 
n to its iiicnasc 
asod radiation of 
JiH) cnli'c foot of 
; feet of inclosed 

lire carbonate nf 
hen ill a stale (if 
:nmen or ininonil 
10 bitnnicn in a 
tency is given to 
lias elasticity to 
rO- resist ordinary 
ir do not seera to 
Jnited States mid 
i sidewalk by iU 
It is also a must 
t being on record 
tood tlie acciiK'ii- 



MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 



07 I 



tal fall of a stack of cliiinneys, with the only effect of bniisi^ig the 
mastic, readily repaired. 

TiiiNns WoHTH Knowino. — 1. Rust Joint, quirk aettimj : Sul- 
aminoniiic, i»iilverizod, 1 lb. ; flour of sulphur, 2 lbs. ; iron borings 
80 llis., mix to a jiaste with water in quantities as required for im- 
mediate use. 2. Quick Hettin(j joint better than the last, but requires 
more time to set. Sal ammoniac, 2 lbs ; sulphur, 1 lb. ; iron filings, 
"206 !bs. 3. Air and toater-tight cement for casks and cisterns: 
Melted glue, 8 jiarts ; linseed oil, 4 parts ; boiled into a varnish 
with litharge ; hardens in forty-eight hours. 4. Marine (.Hue: 
India rnlilK'r, 1 jiart coal tar, 12 parts; heat gently, mix, and add 
20 parts of powdered shellac, pour out to cool, when used, heat 
to about 250". 5. jhwther ditto. Glue, 12 parts; water sufficient 



, add yellow resin, 3 parts; melt, then add turpentine, 
mix thoroughly together. 6. Water-proof varnish Jor 

dissolve 



to dissolve 
4 \)\\x\i _ 

hiirnrss. India riibliei'jH lb.; spirits of turpentine, 1 gal 
to a jelly, then lake hot linseed oil, e([ual jtarts with the mass, and 
incoriicrate them well over a slow lire. 7. Blacking for harness : 
Beeswax, h lb. ; ivory black, 2 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 oz. ; 
l'rlls^ian blue, ground in oil, 1 oz. ; copal varnish,^ oz. ; mcll the 
wa.v and stir it into the other ingredients before the mixture is quito 
cold; make it into balls, rub a little upon a brush, apply it upon 
the harness and polish lightly with silk. 8. Anti-friction grease: 
Tallow, 100 lbs. : palm oil, 70 lbs. ; boil together; when cooled to 
80^, strain through a sieve, and mix with 28 lbs. soda and, H gals, 
water. For winter take 25 lbs. more oil in place of the tallow. 
'.). Another. I'ulverized black lead, 1 part ; lard, 4 parts, mix. 

10. /ioo/h's Paiiwaj/ Axle Grease : Water, 1 gal. ; clean tallow, 3 lbs. ; 
laliii oil, lbs. ; common soda, ^ lb. or tallow, 2 lbs., palm oil, 10 
b3, Heat to about 212°, and stir well until it cools to 70'*. 

11. To rcmone old iron Moulds: Sloisten the part stained with ink, 
remove this by the use of muriatic acid diluted by five or six timea 
its weight of water, when the old and new stains will be removed. 

12. W h/lrwashfor outside work: Slack lime, \ bushel, in a barrel; 
add coimnon salt, 1 lb. ; sulphate of zinc, ^ lb. ; sweet milk, 1 gal. j 
bring to a i)roper consistence with water, and apply with a white- 
wasli In-ush. 1 3. Asphalt composition : Mineral pitch, 1 part ; bitumen, 
11 parts ; jiowdered stone or wood ashes, 7 parts. 14. Composi- 
tivn/or .streets androads. Bitumen, 10.875 parts, asphaltum, 225 parts, 
oil of resin, 025 parts and sand 135. Thickness from li to 1| inches. 
Asphaltum, 55 lbs., and gravel, 28.7 lbs. will cover an area of 
10.75 square feet. 1l). Cement for extirnal tise : Ashes, 2 parts; 
clay, 3 parts; sand, 1 part; mix with a little oil, very durable. 
hi. CeiHfntfor Shoemakers and Channelers : India rubber dissolved 
to a jiroper consistency in sulphuric ether. 11. Mortar: Lime, I 
part ; clean sharp sand, 2h parts. An excess of w^ter in slacking 
the lime sv,'(dls the mortar, which remains light and porous, or 
shrinks in drying: an excess of sand destroys the cohesive pro- 
IKrties of the mass. 18. *S7o/ici JHor/tfr ; Cement, 8 parts ; lime, 3 
parts, and 31 parts of sand. 19. Brown mortar: Lime, I part, 
sand, 2 parts, and a small quantity uf hair. 20. Brick mortar: 
^■■jjiii' lit, 3 parts ; lime, 3 parts, sand 27 parts. Liuio and suud. 



:rt 



m: 



* I 




A. 



2?2 AIACIIINISTS, ENUINEERS, &C., RECEIl'lg. 



m 



n 



; I 



- f ':r: 









aJja cemeni a!ii> .sand, lessen about I in volnmo when nnxcd to- 
gether. 21. Turkiak vwrtur : Powdered brick and tilis^ i piirt- 
line sifted lime, 2 parts ; mix to a proper consistency w ill i water' 
and lay on layers of I've or six incbes thick between the coursea of' 
brick or stoac, being useful on massive or very solid l)iiilding3. 
22. Interior plastering — Course stujf: (.Common lime mortar, as 
mado tor briqk masonry, with a small quantity of hair ; or by 
volumes, lime i)a3te (30 lbs. lime) I part; sand, 2 to 2i paxts; 
hair 1-G part. When full time for hardening cannot be allowed, 
substitute from 15 to 20 per cent, of the lime by an equal portion 
of byd') ulic cement. For the second or brown coat the i)roportioa 
of hair may be slightly diminished. Fine stiiJJ (lime puttj) : Lump 
lime slaked to a paste with r. moderate volume of water, and after- 
wards diluted to the consistency of cream, and then to harden by 
evaporation to the required consistency for working. In this stale 
it is used for a slipped coat, and when mixed with sand or plaster 
of Paris it is used for the jinis/iin(/ coat. Gauge stuff or Jlanl Finish 
is composed of S to 4 volumes of fine stuff and i volume of plas- 
ter of Paris, in proportions regiilated by the degree of rapidity 
required in hardening for cornices, Ac, the proportions am equal 
volumes of each, fine stuff and plaster. Siucco is composed of 
from 3 to 4 volumes of white sand to 1^ volume of fine stuff, or lime 
putty. Scratch coai : The first of 3 coats when laid upon laths, and 
is from i to f of an inch in thickness. One coat work : Plastering 
in one coat without finish, either on masonry or laths, that is, 
rendered or laid. Two coat work : Plastering in two coats is done 
either in a laying coat and set or in a screed coat or set. The 
Screed Coat is also termed a Floated Coat. J^aying the first coat 
in two coat work is resorted to in common work instead of 
sreeding, when the finished surface is not required to be exact to 
a straight edge. It is laid in a coat of about i inch in thickness. 
The laying coat, except for very common work, should bo hand- 
fioatedf as the tenacity and firmness of tfie work is much increasad 
thereby. Screeds are fjtrips o" mortar, 26 to 28 inches m width, 
and of the required fliickness of the first coat, applied to the angles 
of a room, or edge of a wall and parallelly, at intervals of 3 to 5 
feet over the surface to be covered. When these have become suf- 
ficiently hard to v^ithstand the pressure of a straight edge, the 
interspaces between the screeds should be filled out flush with 
them, so as to produce a continuous and straight, even surface. 
Slipped Coat is the smoothing off of a brown coat with a small 
quantity of lime putty, mixed with three per cent of white sandso as 
to make c^ comparatively even surface. This finish answers when 
the surface is to be finished in distemper or papei. Hard Finish: 
Fine stuff applied with a trowel to the dept.i of about ^ of an inch. 
Eauth Digging. — N-nmher qf cubic Jeet of earth in a ton. Loose 
earth 24; coarse sand 18G. Clay 186. Earth with gravel 17 8. 
Clay with gravjl, 14-4. Common soil 15'(). The volume of earth 
and sand in bank exceeds that in eml)auknient in the followinff 
proportions; sand f, clay ^. gravel -|'j-) "-'xi the volume of ruck in 
embankments quarried in large fragments exceeds that in bank 
<'ullv one half. 



[i'TS. 

'li'-n mixed to- 
t ill's i piirt; 

^y Willi Wilier, 
tlie courses of 

lolid buildings. 

lie mortar, aa 

of hair ; or by 

2 to 2i pajts; 
ot be allowed, 
1 equal portion 

tbo ])roi)ortioa 
puttj): Lump 
ater, ami after- 
n to harden by 
:. In this state 
jaiul or plaster 
or Hard Finish 
roluine of ])las- 
free of rapidity 
[•lions are equal 
is composed of 
ae stniF, or lime 
upon laths, and 
u-k : Plastering 
' laths, tliat is, 
'o coals is done 
)at or «'/. The 
ij the first coat 
vork instead of 
I to be exact to 
:h in thickness. 
hould be hand- 
much increassd 
nchcs 111 width, 
ed to the angles 
tervals of 3 to 5 
ave become suf- 
aight edge, ihe 
1 out flush with 
t, even surface. 
Lt with ft small 
white sandso as 
h answers when 
Hard Finish: 
)Ui ^ of an inch. 
n a ton. Loose 
ith gravel 17 8. 
volume of earth 
1 the following 
lume of ruck in 

3 that iu bunk 



MAOUiNISTS, ENOINEERS, &C., RECEIPTS. 27^ 

To Stain or Color Glass. — For amethyst^ oxide of manganese is 
used ; for blue, oxide of cobalt ; for broion, oxide of iron ; for greeny 
black oxide of copper ; for piirpie, oxido of gold ; for ruby red, sub- 
oxide of copper; for white, oxido of tin ; for yellow, oxide of silver, 
&c. These substances pure and well powdered, are either added 
to the melted contents of tho glass-pot, or are applied to the sur- 
face as in glass staining. See page 131. 

To Gild Lktters on MAnBLE, — Apply first a coating of size and 
then several successive coats of size thickened with finely pow- 
dored whiting until a good face is produced. Let each coat 
become dry and rub it smooth with fine glass paper before apply- 
ing tho next. Then go over it thinly and evenly with gold size 
ainl apply the gold leaf, burnishing with an agate, several coats of 
leaf Avill "be necessary to give a good effect. , 

AliUANGEMENT OP LAPIDAniES' COTTING PlATES. — 1. Soft iron' 

(very tkin) with diamond dust ra oil ; 2. Pewter with coarse emery 
and water ; 3. Pewter, with fine emery and water ; 4. Wood with 
sand and water ; 5. Pewter, with rotten stone and water ; (J» 
Lciithcr with putty powder slightly wet. 

MeASUUKMENT op stone or BRICK WORK. 

1 Pei'ch, M(i3op^ or Quarrymeu^s Measure, 



ini feet long 
ic'inches wide 
12 " high 
\c,\ feet long, 
18 inches 
12 " hi 



= b 



2 cubic fcfct. To be jncasured in walL 



'ng, ) 

I wide, > = 

igh J _ 



75 



cubic feet. To be rnbasured ' i 



{24. 

'^ pile. 
1 cubic yard = 3 feet + 3 feet -f 3 feet = 27 cubic feet. The 
cubic yard has become tlie standard for all contract work otlato, 
years. Stone walls less than 10 inches thick count as if 10 inches 
tliick to masons ; over 10 inches thick, each, additioaal inch is 
connted, 

Nl'MRER OP BRICK REQUIRED IN WALL PEE SQUARE FOOT PaCB OP WALIu 

Thickness of wall Thickness of wall. 



4 inclics 
8 " 
12 " 
IG '< 
20 « 



u 
u 



46 
52| 

.75 



Vt 24 inches 

1? 28 '* 

2'^ 32 % 

30 3Q 

?n . 42 

Cubic .yard = 600 Bricks in wall. 
Perch (22 cubic feet) = COO Bricks in wall. 
To pave 1 sq. yard on flat requires 41 Bricks 
" « 1 « " edge « 68 " 
For mortar, plaster, &c., of all kinds, see page 271. 
To ]]leach Fixed Oils.— Shake strongly for some minutes, 300 
partsof the oil with 40 parts water containing 1 part permangato of 
potassa; allow the mixture to stand in a warm place for some hours, 
and thou filter. This renders the oil colorless. To purify oil. Into 
1000 i)arts by weight of oil, put a mixture of 6 parts solution of 
ammonia and parts water, agitate tho barrel well until the alkali 
13 iierfectly mixed, which may bo done in 15 minutes. The barrel 
isthi'ii sealed hermetically, and after 3 dfi^g repose, the oil ia 
tlecant(Ml and filtered. Tho residue is used for tho manufacture of 
eoap. To Cluri/i^ Coal 0//.— Place in a close vessel 100 Iba, crud^ . 



1 

'I 

■ " ' I 

' ■ ', ■ ■ '' 






i 



; 



■ii 






w 




^2l2h MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &C., IlEOEIFIh!. 

coal, 25qts. -wntcr, 1 lb. chloriclc of lime, 1 lb. F.oda,-ancI Hh. oxido 
of manganese. The mixture is violently agitated, and allowed to 
rest for 24 hours when the clear oil is decanted and distilled. Tlio 
IOC lbs. coal oil are to bo mixed with 25 lbs. resin oil; this is one of 
the principal ])oint3 in the manipulation ; it removes the Rummy 
parts from the oil, and renders them inodorous. The distiihitlon 
spoken of may terminate the process, or the oils may be distilled 
before they are defecated and precipitated. 

To OBTAIN CoMMERCiAii Antimony. — Fusc togcthcF 100 parts ?ul- 
phuret of antimony, 40 parts metallic iron, and 10 parts dry crude 
sulphate of soda. This produces from 60 to G5 parts of uaiiniony, 
besides the scoriaa or ash which is also valuable. Metallic Antimonn, 
Mix 16 parts suljjhuret of antimony and 6 parts cream of tartar, 
both in powder ; put the mixture, in small quantities at a time, into 
a vessel heated to redness ; wlicn reaction ceases, fuse the mass and 
after 15 minutes, pour it out and separate the metal from the slag. 
The product is nearly i)urc. 

To Dye Leather Yellow. — Picric acid gives a good yello\T 
without any mordant ; it must be used in very dilute solution, 
and not warmer than 70-' Fahr, so as not to penetrate the leather. 

Green Dye pou Leatheu. — Aniline blue modifies picric acid tea 
fine green. In dyeing the leather, the temperature of 85^ Fahr., must 
never be exceeded. 

To Clean OsTnicn Featitetts. — Cut some white curd soap in 
small pieces, pour boiling water on them and add a little pearlash. 
When the soap is quite dissolved, and the mixture cool enough for 
the hand to bear, plunge the feathers into it, draw the featliers 
through the hand till the dirt appears squeezed out of them, pass 
them through a clean lather with some blue in it, then rinse them 
in cold water with blue to give thera a good color. Beat them 
against the hand to shako oflf the water, and dry by shaking them 
near a fire. When perfectly dry curl each fibre separately with a 
blunt knife or ivory paper folder. To dye feathers, see page 101. 

To Clean Furs. — For dark fu.'s: warm a quantity of new bran 
in a pan, taking care that it doos not burn, to prevent which it 
must be briskly stirred. When well warmed, rub it thoroughly 
into the fur with the hand. Repeat this two or three times; thea 
shake the fur, and give it another sharp brushing until free from 
dust. For white furs, lay them on a table, and rub well with bran 
mad?i moist with warm water, rub until quite dry, and afterwards 
with dry bran. The wet bran should bo put on with flannel and 
the dry with book muslin. Light furs in addition to the above, 
should bo well rubbed with magnesia or a piece of book muslin 
after the bran process, against the way of the fur, 

AIccH Butter from Little Milk. — Take 4 ozs. pulverized alnm 
^ oz. pulverized gum arable, and 50 grs. of pepsin ; place it in a bottle 
for use as required. A teaspoonful of this mixture added to a pint of 
milk, will, upon churning, make a pound of butter. Agents are 
now selling this secret i'l^': $5. 

Best Heel Ball. — Melt together bee swax , 2 lbs., suet,, 3 ozs., stir 
in ivory black, 4 ozs., lamp blacky 3 oz.. powdered gum arable, 2 oz., 
powdered rock candy, 2 oz., mix and when partly cold pour iuto 
tin and leaden moulds. 



IFXfc!. 

ind allowed to 
listillcd. Tho 
this is one of 
cs tlic pummy 
he (lislillulitm 
y be distilled 

100 jiarts ?u% 
arts dry crude 
I of uDlimony, 
llic Antimony, 
2am of tartar, 
at a time, into 
) the mass and 
from the slag. 

good ycllo\T 
lute solution, 
tho leatlier. 
licric acid to a 
5^ Fahr., must 

curd soap in 
ittlo pearlash. 
)ol enough for 
w the feathers 
i of them, pass 
lon rinse them 
Beat them 
shaking them 
irately with a 
seo page 101. 
y of new bran 
rent which it 
it thoroughly 
36 times ; thcH 
intil free from 
Fell with bran 
nd afterwards 
th flannel and 
to tho above, 

book muslin 

Tcrizcd alnm 
;p it in a bottle 
edto a pint of 
Agents are 

aet, 3 ozs., stir 
Q arable, 2 oz., 
;old pour into 



Machinists, engineers. *fi, RECEirts. 



2ri 



Estimate op matbiiials Awt> latmr tou 100 sqttarb yards ob" Latit 

AND PLASTBB. 



Jluturial!) Tlirec Coat.s Two Coatsii Materials 
and Labor. Hard finish I Slipped land Labor 



Lim« 

hump Liino 

rlaster ol' 

raris... 

Laths 

Hair 

Sand 



4 CaiikH. 
§ " 

\ " 
2000 " 
4 bushels 
G leads. 



3jCat)kH. 



2000 " 
3 busbels 
InadM 



VV bite Sand 

Nails 

Masons 

Labourer. ., 
Cartage. . . . 



bree Coats Two coats 
lard iinisb Slipped. 



2i biisbols 
13 lbs 
4 days 



18 lbs. . 
3i days 
2 



Tekba Uotta Manufacture. — In the terra cotta manufacture of 
the north of England and Scotland, the purest lumps of fire clay 
are selected by their color and texture, and used alone without 
any otiier clay, while the firms near London prepare more care- 
fully a mixture of clays, which produce a body of better texture. 
One of the chief difliculties met in manufacturing terra cotta 
figures and ornamental works is the contraction the clay suffers 
after it has left the mould; first, in drying ; afterwards, in firing. 
By mixing the clays,a further advantage is gained in the aiminished 
Bhriukage, as fire clay terra cotta (that is, unmixed) shrinks in lineal 
dimensions about 12 per cent from the time it leaves the mould 
until it leaves the kiln ; the mixed clay terra cotta shrinks 6 per 
cent or less, and red clays shrink 3 per cent. To enhance the 
durability of tho body of terra cotta, a partial vitrification of tho 
mass is aimed at by adding clays and substances which contain a 
small amount of alkalies which act as a flux to fuse the body 
harder ; also vitrifying ingredients, pure white river sand, old fire 
brick, ground fine, previously ground clay called "grog." aro 
added in various proportions, amounting .even to 25 per cent. 
They counteract excessive shrinkage, act as vitrifying elements, 
and keep the color lighter. In the manufacture the mixture of 
clays is ground under an edge runner to the consistency of flour. 
The mills have either revolving or stationary pans ; the former do 
the most work. In order to mix and incorporate the diflferent 
clays, n, subsequent careful pugging is required, for which hot 
water is sometimes used. The mixture, when brought to the pro- 
per homogeneous consistency, io placed in a plaster mould, dried 
near the kilns or otherwise, and baked in a kiln for fivo or seven 
days, during which time it is slowly brought to a white heal, and 
as gradually cooled down again. In order to avoid twisting and 
warping during tho firing, it ic necessary, beaides complete mixing 
of clays, that the mould be shaped so as to give a uniform thick- 
ness of material throughout, aud if the temperature ot the kiln 
be well graded, the homogeneous body will, not warp. To cheapen 
terra cotta building blocks, they are made hollow, and filled, dur- 
ing the construction, with concrete or cement. Although in the 
kilns the productions are separated from the wares, it ic found that 
the use of sulphurous fuel darkens and tarnishes the curface, and 
it is to be avoided. This material admits of being used with the 
greatest facility in the formation of the most elaborate fvrchitcc- 




^ \ 






'$■ 




^nrrr-'sr^^rragyutm 



Tm 



i! 






t 



271 MACHINISTS, KNGINKEIlSj'itO., REOKIPIS. 

toml ornaments and other beautifu. designs, which can be multi- 
plied to any required extent at a very cheap rate. A piece of four 
inch column tested at the 1851 Exhibition required a pressure of 
400 tons per square foot to crush it, or as much aa good granite 
and two to three times as much as most building stono. 

Ulastinq Rocks, &c — In small blasts 1 lb, of powder will 
loosen about 4^ tons. In largo blasts 1 lb. of powder will looson 
about 2^ tons ; 50 or GO lbs. of powder, inclosed in a resisting bag 
liung or propped up against a gate or barrier will demolisii any 
ordinary construction. One man can bore, with a bit 1 indi in 
diameter, from 50 to 00 inches per day of 10 hours in gninite or 
300 to 400 ins. per day iu limestone. Two strikers and a iiolder 
can bore with a bit 2 ins. in diameter 10 feet per day in rock of 
medium hardness. 

Labour on Embankments. Single horse and cart. A horse with 
a loaded dirt cart employed in excavation and embankment, will 
make 100 lineal feet, or 200 feet in distance per minute, while 
moving. The time lost in loading, dumping, awaiting, otc,-=4 
minutes per load. A medium laborer will load with a cart in 1^; 
hours, of the following earths, measured in the bank : Grav/hj 
earth 10, Loam 12, and Sandy earth 14 cubic yards ; carts are loaded 
as follows : Descending hauling^ i of a cubic yard in bank^ iicvd 
hauling f of a cubic yard in bank ; Ascending hauling, | ot .i cubic 
yard in bank. Loosening ^'c. In loam, a three-horse plov," -vil! 
loosen from 250 .o 800 cubic ya'-ds per day of 10 hours. Tliu cost 
of loosening earth to be loaded will be from 1 to 8 cents jicr cul)ic 
yard, when wages are 105 cents per day. The cost of trinuuing 
and bossing is about 2 cents per cubic yard. Scooping, A scoop 
load will measure -,\t of a cubic yard, measured in excavation. Tiie 
lime lost in loading, unloading and trimming, per loadj i^ \^ 
minutes. The time lost for every 70 feet of distance, from excava- 
tion to bank, and returning is 1 minute. In Double Scooping, tiio 
time lost in loading, turuing, &c., will be 1 minute; and in Single 
Scooping, it will be 1^ minutes. (EUwood Morris.) 

Hauling Stone — A cart drawn by horses over an ordinary ma' 
will travel I'l miles per hour of trip. A 4 horse team will hfud 
from 25 to 36 cubic feet of lime stone at each loa'd. The time 
expended in loading, unloading, &c.. including delays, avcnigis 
35 minutes per trip. The coat of loading and unloading a cirt, 
using a horse cram at the quarry, and unloading by hand, when 
labour is $1.25> per day, and a horse 75 cents, is 25 cents per 
perch~'J4.75 cubic feet. The work done by an animal is greatest 
wlicn the velocity with which he moves is ^ of the greatest witli 
which he can move when not imjKided, and the force then cxortca 
^5 of the utmost force the animal can exert at a dead pull. 
. Hay. — 270 cubic feet of new meadow hay, and 21(; and 2-j;! from 
large or old stacks, will weigh a ton, 297 to 324 cubic feet olJiy 
clover weigh a ton. 

^ Whkkl Gkarinq. — The Pitch Line of a wheel, is the circle npoii 
,wliich the pitch is measured, and it is the circumference by wiiich 
the diameter, or the velocity of the wheel is measured. The /'ilch, 
js^the arc of the circle of the pitch line, and is detennincd by tlio 



can be multi- 

piece of four 

a pressure of 

good granite 

10. 

powder will 
er will loosea 
resisting bag 
deinulisli any 
bit I inch in 
ill granite or 
md ii holder 
tiy in rock of 

A horse with 
vnkiuent, will 
minute, while 
siting, Cite,— 4 
li a cart in l\> 
nk : Gravj/ly 
rls are loaded 
n bank; i^cvul 
h i ot a cubic 
'se phn,' Til! 
irs. Tliu coH 
3ntg i»cr cubic 
i of triniininjT 
intj, A scoop 
;avation. The 
r load, \h \^ 
from excavii- 
Scuojiiiif/. the 
and in iV/iy/e 

ordinary roa' 
iam will haul 
d. The time 
ays, avenigi'S 
idiiig a cart, 
y hand, wljen 
25 cents per 
al is greatest 
greatest witli 
then exerted 
[ pull. 

and 'J43 from 
)ic feet of diy 

e circle upon 

lice by wliieh 

The nirh, 

:niiied by thu 



SiACillNlSTS, ENQINEERS, AC, REOEll'TS. 



275 



number of teeth in the wheel. The Triie Pitch, (chordial), or ib».i bv 
which ihe dimensions of the tooth of a wheel are alone d«termmed, 
j3 ft straigiit line drawn from the centres of two contiguous teeth 
upon the pilch line. The Line of Centres, is the line between the 
centres of two wheels. The Radius of a wheel is the senii-diamcter 
runnin"" to the periphery of a tooth. The J'itch Radius, is the scini- 
(liametcr running to the pitch line. The Lcui/th of a tooth, is the 
ilisinnce from its base to its extremity. The Breadth of a tooth, is 
the length of the face of wheel. A Cog Wheel, is the general name 
for a wheel having a number of cogs set upon or radiating from its 
circunifcrciice. A Mortice Wheel, is a wheel constructed for the 
reception of teeth or cogs, which are fitted into recesses or sockets 
uiiiin llie fate of the wheel. A (^og Wheel is the general term for 
a wliiel having a numb€r of cogs or teeth set upon or radiating 
ivom its cir uniference. A Mortice Wheel, is a wheel constructed 
for the reception of teeth or cogs, which are fitted into recesses or 
RDckots up.jn the taco of the wheel. IHate Wheels, are wheels 
without arms. A Rack is a series of teeth set in a plane. A Sector 
i-( :, wheel vhi h reciprocates Avithout forming a full revolution. 
I ^{lur Wheel, is a wheel having its teeth pex'pendicular to its axis. 
A Jievt. W'icet, i: a wheel having its teeth at an angle with its 
axis. A Crown Wheel, is a wheel having its teeth at a right angle 
with its axiu. A Mitre Wheel is a wheel having Its teeth at an 
au"^lc(i 15 ' with its axis. A Face Wheel, is a wheel having its 
le(°h s .1 uj)oa one of its sides. An Annular or Internal Wheel, is 
o, wheel having its teeth convergent to its centre, iSinir (iear, 
Wlifi'ld which act on each oti'.,r in tli« sumo plane, pcvcl Clear^ 
W! tels which act upon each other at an angle. When th« tobth 
ot a wheel is made of a dillerent material from that of the wheel, it 
jj tfiinetl a co(j% in a pinion it is termed a leaf and in a trundle it 
is lernu'd a stave. A wheel which impels onother "s terme the 
siiur. driver, or leader: the one impelled is the p/Mton. driver, or fol- 
lower. A series of wheels in connection with each other is termed 
a train. When two wheels act on each other, the greater is termed 
tlio v'/iccl and the lesser the pinion^ A Trundle, jMntern, or Wul- 
lowcr is when the teeth of a jiiniort are constructed of round brass 
Pdlid cylinders set in two discs. A Trundle with less than oight 
aiavcs cannot Ije operated uniformly by a wheel with any numbev 
(»;' teeth. The material of which cogs are made is aboutone fourth 
thi Ht length of cast iron. Buchanan rules that to increase or 
(liiniiiish tiie velocity in a given proportion and with the least 'ur.n- 
tily (if wheel-work, the number of teeth in each pinion should betvj 
the nmnber of teeth in its wheel as 1, 3, 59. Even tz sav^ bpace 
ami cxiiense, the number should never exceed i; G. The least ninn- 
\h'v of teeth that it is practicable to give to a wheel is regulated by 
the necessity of having at least one pair always in action, in order 
to i)rovide for the contingency of a tooth breaking. The teeth of a 
wheel should be as small and numerous as is consistent with strength 
Wiien it pinion is driven bii a tvheel, the number of teeth in the 
pinion should not be less than eight. When a ivh.eel t'v driven by a 
pinion, the number of teeth in the pinion should not be less than 
ten. The nuinU'r of teeth in »•'"'• he el should alw.iy,. be prime to 




M'- 



h> 



^ 



^•» 



270 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, &0., UEOEIl'Tti. 



the number of tho pinion, tliat Ig, the number of teeih in the wheel 
slioiikl not be divisible by the number of teeth in the pinion without 
a remainder ; this la in order to prevent the same teeth coming 
together so often as to cause an irregular -wear of their faces. An 
odd tooth introduced into awheel is termed a hunting tooth ovcoy. 

To COMPUTE THE NUMBER OF TEETH REQUmED IN A TRAIN OP WHEBLS 

TO PRODUCE A GIVEN VELOCITY. Rule. — iMultiply tlie nunilier of 
leeth in the driver by its number of revolutions, and divide tlio 
product by the number of revolutions of each piuiouj for each driver 
and pinion. 

Kxaviple. — If a driver in a train of three wheels has 90 teeth, and 
makes 2 revolutions, and the velocities required are 2, 10, and 18, 
what are the number of teeth in each of the other two. 
10: 90: : 2 . \H— teeth in 2 ml wheel. 
18 : 90: ; 2 : \Q— teeth in 'An I wheel. 
To COMPUTE THE DIAMETER OF A WHEEL, Rii/e. — Multiply thc num- 
ber of teeth by the pitch, and divide the product by :<, MKI. 

Example. — The number of teeth in the wheel is 75, and the pitch 
1, G75 ins: what is the diameter of it? 

75 X 1.C755 

— — =10 ins. 

3.141G 
To COMPUTE THE TRUE OR ctioRDiAL PITCH, Rule. — Dividc 180 by 
the number of teeth, ascertain the sine of the quotient, and multi- 
l)ly it by the diameter of the wheel. 

Example. — The number of teeth is 75, and the diameter 40 inches; 
what is the true pitch ? 
180 

n=2p24' and sin. of 2p24'=. 04188, which x40=1.C7j2 ins, 

75 
Hoe'sComposition for Printers' Rollers. — This consists of glue 
and molasses, the i)roportions varying from 8 lbs. of glue in sum- 
mer, to 4 lbs. in winter for each gallon of molasses. The glue 
should be placed ^ an hour in a bucket, covered with water, then 

I )our the water off, and allow the glue to soften. Put it into a 
settle and heat it until thoroughly melted ; if too thick a little 
water may be added. Lastly, the molasses is added and well 
stirred in with the glue. When properly prepared an hour's boil- 
ing will be sutHcient, as too much boiling is apt to candy the mo- 
lasses. A late improvement consists in the addition of glycerine 
to the nsual mixture. Swab the mould with oil before pouring. 

Cement for 1*etroleum Lamps. — Boil 'A parts of ressin with 1 
part of caustic soda and 5 of water. The composition is then 
mixed with half its weight of plaster of Paris, and sets firmly in ^ 
to 5 of an hour. It is of great adhesive power, not permeable to 
etroleum, a low conductor of heat, and but superficially attacked 
y hot water. 

To Dedorize Benzine. — Shake repeatedly with plumbate of soda 
(oxide of lead dissolved in caustic soda), and rectify. The follow- 
ing plan is said to be better. Shake repeatedly with fresh portions 
of metallic quick silver; let it stand for 2 days, and rectify. 

Specific Gravity. — Is the density of the matter of which any 
body is composed, compared with the density of another body 



I 



«•>>..,• 



1 the wheel 
ion without 
eth comuig 
faceg. An 
toolh or co(f. 

M or WHEELS 

number of 
I divide the 

■ each driver 

• 

)0 teetli,and 
, 10, and 18, 



ply the num- 

1410. 
lud the pitch 



ivido 180 hj 
t, and mulu- 

tcr 40 inches; 



:1.C752 ins, 

nsists of glue 
glue in sura- 
The glue 
1 water, thea 

ut it into a 
bhick a little 
ed and well 
a hour'9 boil- 
andy the mo- 

of glycerine 
e pouring, 
essin with 1 
ition is then 
t3 firmly in ^ 
IH'rmeable to 
ally attacked 

nbate of soda 
The follow- 
'resh portions 
•ectify. 

)f which any 
nother body 



tfAOHINlSTS, ENQINEERH, &0., kECEU'Ts/ '-^f 

assnmefl a3 the standard, or 1000. Thi.<» standard la pure (fistilTedl 
water for liquids and solids, and atmospheric air for gaseous bodies 
and vapors Thus as gold is 19 and silver 10 times heavier than 
water, those numbers 19 and 10 are said to represent the specilic 
gravity of gold and silver. The heaviest known substance is iridi- 
um, used for pointing gold pens; its specific gravity is 23, 
The ligbtcst of all liquids tias a specific gravity of 0-6., it is called 
cbiraogene, and is made from petroleum, it is exceedingly volatile 
and combustible, being in fact a liquefied gas. Carbonic acid gas 
or clioke damp is 500 times lighter than water, common air, 800, 
street gas about 2000, and pure hydrogen the lightest of all sub- 
stances, 12,000 times. The heaviest substance has thus 23x12,000, 
or more than a quarter of a million times more weight ihan an 
equal bulk of the lightest; and the substance of which comets con- 
sist, liii3 by astronomers been proved to be even several thousand 
tiirics lighter than hydrogen gas. 

To Galvanize Grby Irom t/ASTiNGS.—Cloanso the articles in aa 
ordinary chalHng mill, which consists of a barrel revolving on its 
a.xi3, containing sand ; when the sand is all removed^ take them 
out and heat one by one, plunging, while hot, in a liquid composed 
as follows 10 lbs. hydrochoric acid and sufficient sheet zinc to make 
a saturated solution. In making this solution, when the evolution 
of gas has ceased, add muriate, or preferably sulphate of ammonia, 
1 lb., and let it stand till dissolved. The castings should be so 
hot that when dipped in this solution, and instantly removed, they 
will immediately dry, leaving the surface orystallized like frost 
work on a window pane. Next plunge them while hot, but perfectly 
dry, in t bath of melted zinc, previously skimming the oxide on 
the surfiace away, and throwing thereon a small amount of powder- 
ed sal ammoniac. If the articles are very small, inclose them in % 
wrought iron basket on a pole, and lower them into the metal. 
When this is done, shake off the superfluous metal, and cast them 
into a vessel of water to prevent them adhering when the zinc 
solidifies. 

To Purify PsTROLEnsi oR Kerosenb Oil.-- The distillate or 
crude burning oil is converted into ordinary burning oil by being 
placed in a tank when it is violently agitated by forcmg air through 
it, and while thus agitated, IJ to 2 per cent., sulphuric acid is 
added, alter which the agitation is continued 15 to 30 minutes. 
The oil is then allowed to settle, when the acid and impurities are 
removed, and any acid remaining in the oil is neutralized. It is then 
taken to shallow bleaching tanks, where it is exposed to light and 
aif, and allowed to settle. It is next heated by means of a coil of 
steam pipe running through it, to expel all gaseous vapours which 
will ignite at a temperature below 110® Pahr The )il is now 
called a. fire test oil, and is ready to be barreled and sent to market 
Kerosene oil is decolorized by stirring it up with 1 or 2 per. cent. 
of oil of vitriol, which will carbonize the coloring matter, then 
with some milk of lime or some other caustic alkali, settling, and 
re-distillinjg. 

To Frost Polished Silvbu. — Cyanide of potassium 1 oz., dis- 
solve in J pt. of water. Do not hold the silver in your hands, but 
use pliers made of lance wood or box wood, and apply the mixtur* 
with a brush to the polished surface. 



mi 



f> I 




t ■ 




1/8 UAOlUNIbTS, ENGINEERR, .tC, aECEll'TS. 






\- '•,! ' 



J-lli i| 



, l,.ll 



; w i'i 



To rtE?iT()RE Burnt Cast Stkel.— Borax II lbs., sal ainmoniac 
4 lb., pnisdiate of potasli I lb., rosin, 1 oz. Puutul the iihovu line, 
add :i gill each of water and alcohol, and boil all to a still juislo 
in an iron kettle. Do not boil too lonjr, or it will become Imnl 
\vlu'n cool. Tiie burnt steel is dipped while quite hot in tlie com- 
position and slightly hammered. 

Yeli-ow Du'i'iNO Metal. — Melt together 2 parts of brass, I part 
c<!ppi'r, with a little old brass, and \ oz. tin to every lb. of copiK>r. 
This .lUoy is almost of the color of gold coin. 

>Sii-VEiuNO IIuoKS AND Eyks, «fec. — The small iron articles nre 
siisiiendcd in dilute 3uli)liuric acid until the iron shows a brigh: 
clean surface. After rinsing m pure water they are pliiced in a 
biith of a mi.xed solution of sulphate of zinc, sulphate of copper 
and cyanide ot potassium, and there remain until they receive i» 
bright coating of trass. Lastly, they arc transferred to a bath of 
nitrate of silver, cyanide of potassium and sulphate of suda, in 
which thoy quickly rcceivo a coating of silver. 

To Ai'i'LV Decalcominb Pictuhes. — Varnish the pictures care- 
fully with the prepared varnish, (which can be obtained with the 
pictures), with an ornamenting pencil, being careful not to get tlic 
varnish on the white paper. In a few minutes the picture will he 
ready to lay on the panel, and the paper can be removed by wet- 
ting it, and when thoroughly dry, it should be varnished like an 
oil painting. Be particular to i)urchaso only those transfer jiict- 
nres which are covered with a gold leaf on tfie back, for they will 
show plainly on any colored surface, while the plain pictures are 
used only on white or light ground 

Composition Ornaments for Picture Frames, &c. — Mix as 
much whiting as you think will be required for present use, with 
thinish glue, to the consistence of putty; and Laving a mould 
ready, rub it well ali over with sweet oil, and press your composi- 
tion in it ; take it out and you have a good impression, which you 
may set by to dry j or, if wanted, j'ou may, before it gets hard, apply 
it toyour work with thick. glue, and bend t into the form requiri'd. 
Drill I>ubricator. — For wrought iron use 1 lb. soft soap mixed 
with 1 gal. boiling water. It insures good work and clean cut- 
ting. 

Cement for Emert on Wood. — Melt together equal parts of 
shellac, white rosin, and carbolic acid in crystals ; add th,e last 
after the others are melted. An unrivalled cement. 

Weight of Earth, Rocks, &c. — A cubic yard of sand or ground 
weighs about 30 cwt. ; mud, 25 cwt. ; marl, 2G cwt. ; clay, 31 cwt.; 
chalk, 3G cwt. ; sandstone, 39 cwt. ; shale, 40 cwts. ; quartz, 41 
cwt. ; granite 42 cwt. j trap, 42 cwt. ; slate, 43 cwt. 

To Determine Weight of Live Cattle. — Measure in inches the 
girth round the beast, just behind the shoulder blade, and the 
length of the back I'rom the tail to the fore part of the shouUlei" 
blade. Multiply the girth hy the length, and divide by 144. If the 
girth is less than 3 feet, multiply the quotient by 11. If between 3 and 
.') feet, multiply by IG. If between 5 and 7 feet multiply by 23. II 
between 7 and 9 feet multiply by 31, If the animal is lean, deduct 
^„ from the result, or take the girth and length m feet, multiply the 
square o( the girth by the length, and multiply the product hj 



MAf'HINiSTS, ENOINEERS, AC, UP.CEIPtS. 270 



s. ; quartz, 41 



X%. TIio rc.'^iilt will be tlin answer !n pouiKlg. The live Wfiight, 
miilii|iin'l li)' fi.ur>, {^ivc'rf 11 iKiir iiitproxiiiiiilioii to the net. weiglit. 

T(l liKTAIIt TIIK SlI.VKIUNO (»K M lUKuJW.— I'oiir IlllOll a HJlfet. of 

till toil :f "IrH. of (iiiickrtilvcr to ilie s<jUiu»'! fool of full. Kiil> siiiiutly 
witli.'i \nvcv of hiickHkiii until the foil hecoinert brilliant,. Lay tlie 
L'lii^s iipon a Hat table, fiux' downwardt,, place the foil upon llio 
(liiiimged portion of the ghiss- lay a sheet of paper over the foil, and 
iijaa' upon it a Itloek of wood o u piece ot niarhle With a pi-rfeclly 
Hilt aiirtaci'; put upon it suflicient weight to press it down ligiil; let 
it rcinaiu In this position a few hours. The foil will adhere to the 
glass. 

rK.s'Cii-'' FOR Writino ON Glass. — Stearic acid 4 pts., Mutton- 
?w\, ;i Jits., wax 2 pts ; melt together ami add i! parts of red lead, and 

I |)i. purified carboAte of poiassa, previously triturated together ; 
R'l arfuli; lor an hour in a warm sii ilion, stirring Iretiuenlly ; then 
|iour into glass tubes or hollow n > ds. 

MnDKi.i-iNO Ci.AY. — Knead dry clay with glycerine instead of 
wiUer, and a mass is obtained which remains moist and plastic for 

II cotisiilcrable length of time, being a great convenience for tho 
moiU'llcr. 

Asi'iiALT FOR WalivS. — Takc 2 pts., very dry lime rubltisli, and 
] pi. cdul aslies, also very dry, all sifted fine. In a dry place, on a 
ilrv day, nii,x them, and leave a hole in the middle ot tlit; heap, as 
lirickhi}LTS do when making mortar. Into this j)our boiling liot 
colli tar; mix, and when as stilfas nu)rtar, put it three inches iliick 
Avliore the walk is to be ; the ground sliould be dry and beaten 
siuuotli; sprinkle over it coarse sand. AVhen cold, pass a light 
roller over it; in a few days the walk will be solid and water- 
proof. 

I'uMi^iriNO Powder for Speci'la. — Precipitate a dilute solution 
of suliiliate of iron by ammonia in excess; wash the precipitate; 
press it in a screw jiress till nearly dry ; then expose it to heat 
until it appears of a dull red color in the dark. 

Facts for Gas Companies and Gas CoNsu.MEUs.—i '«;•(/<« as— Dry 
piiriiiers require 1 bushel of lime to 10,000 cubic feet of gas, and 1 
SMperlicial foot for every 400 cubic feet of gas. Wet /mri/ieni 
icqiiiie i l)ushel of lime mixed with 48 bushels of water for every 
10,000 cubic feet of gis. Retorts — A retort produces about OoO 
culiic feet of gas in T) hours with a charge of aijout j^, cwt. of coal, 
or Jsoo feet in 124 hours ; I ton of Wigan (Jannel has produced coke, 
1.12(; Ihs. ; tar, 250 lbs. ; gas, :^;5H lbs. ; loss, ;{2(; lbs. Pictoii and 
Sidney coal has produced 800(> cubic feet per ton ; 1 11). peat 
\Yill supply gas for 1 hour's light. Exposed lights require about 
5 cubic feet; internal lights require 4 cubic ft. per hour. Large 
l)iirncrs require from 6 to i.O cubic feet per hour. A cubic loot of 
giis, frum a jet ;,A,rd of an inch in diameter and height of flame 4 
Indies, will burn for Go minutes. Rosin Gas — Jet 3^,, Hame 5 inches, 
\\ ciiliic feet jser hour. In winter the average diiralion of internal 
li},dits per day is 5.(>8 Hours; in summer it is 2.83 , in spring it is 
3.41; and in the fill 4.1G. Street lamps in New York city coii- 
.siinie ;{ cubic feet of gas per hour. In some cities 4 and 5 cubic 
fet't are consumed. Fish-tail burners for ordinary coal gas con- 
sume 4 to 5 cubic feet of 'as per hour. The standard nj <jas buni^ 



v ! 




%■■'. J' 



■' 



\ 



\ 



2S0 MACHINISTS, ENGINEERS, iC, IlECEIPTg. 

imj is a If) Iiolo Argiind lamp, internal diametor .U iiicli, cliiinncy 
7 iiK'liL'rf ill liciglil, consMiupliou 5 cubic ti'et per hour, givinjr a 
liglit from ordinary coal gas of from 10 to 12 candles, wilii ('auuel 
coal from 20 to 'L\ candles, and with tko coals of I'ennsylvania 
and Virginia of from 14 to IG candles. Loan of Liyld bii (Huk 
(J lubes — IJlear gla^d 12 per cent., lialf gronnd 35 per cent., full 
gronnd 40 per ce'it. The pressure with which gas is forced tlirougli 
pipes shonld seldom exceed 2^ inches at the works^or tla kakage 
will exceed the advantages to be obtained from increased iiassiue. 
When pipes are laid at an inclination either above or hrluw ilm 
hori/.on, a c^jrrection will have to be made in estimating tliu siiii- 
ply, by adding or deductinf, if,o of an inch from the initial \>m' 
■snre fi every foot of rise or rail in the length of the pipe \\y ex. 
perimi'ut, .30,000 cubic feet of gas, sp. gr. 42 wei* dischaiged inau 
hour tlu-ougli a main G inches in diameter and 2-.5 feet in leiigili, 
and b!52 cubic feet, sjiecitic gravity. :»'.i;s were discharged uialcr 
a head '-f 3 ins. of water, through a nniiii 4 ins. indiani. and (Iniilos 
in leni^ih. Loss of volume, if disciiarged by friction, in a piiK; (J in. 
diam and 1 mile in length is estimated at i)") per ci'Ut. ludistiil- 
ingr>t) lbs. of coal the volume of gas produced in cubic feet whi'n the 
distillation was effected in 3 hours was 41.3, in 7 hours ^iTT). in 
2' I lioui.? 33.5, and iu 25 hours 31.7. The time of explosion isabdut 
the 27th part of a second^ and the resultant temperature 2174". 
(litH F.iiijines — In the Lenoir engines, the best proixirlions of gas 
and air are, for conimou gas, 8 volumes of air to 1 of gas, and fdi- 
caiine! gas 11 of air to 1 of gas. An engine having a cylinder uf li 
inches diameter, and <s^ inch stroke of piston, making 185 luvulu- 
tioiis ]i(!r minute, develops a jiower of half a horse. 

To Kkmovk Dki'osit ok ('ahhon ki!o.m Ci.'Vv Retorts.— Loavo 
the retort uncharged for 48 hours, or as long as can be sparcil. 
I'lit tlii^ lid on the mouth-piece so as to be ckLsed at twp, and uinn 
2 or three inches at the bottom. Take out the stopper from staml 
pijte, so as to allow a current of air to pass through tlu! retort and 
oxydize tlie carbon; use no bar. Put in a charge of coal ai'lcr 
the retort has lain idle the number of hours retiuired, and when it 
is Vi'lthdrawn the carl)on comes with it. 

To iMK.M) li!o.\ Rktorts. — Fire clay 15 lbs., saleratus, 1 Hi. witli 
water snihcient to make a thick paste. Ajiply to the broken part 
of the retort while at a good working heat, then cover it with a 
.'iiK! coal dust, and charge the retort for working. 

To St(»i' Lkak.s i.\ Clay Rktout.s Wiikn at Wohkixo Hkat.— 
Five parts lite clay, 2 parts white sand, 1 part of borax pres::edanil 
ground. Mix the' whole together with as much water as iua\- \\f 
necessary to bring it to the consistence of putty. Roll it in tin; 
bands to a proper length and iijjply it over the cracK, pressiiiL; it 
with a long spatula into the crack. 

To Pkkvknt (»as Mkteks Fhom Fuekzino. — Half a pint of gdoil 
glycerine is said to i)r<'veiit (he freezing of 1 gal. water, timii^rli 
at least double the jiroportion is preferalde in the country, w lial- 
cvi.r llie Icwnerature in the winter may hai^ien to be. 



*-' 



'TH. 



'I'll, cliininoy 
niur, [giving a 
Willi Cnuuul 
IV'iinsylviuiia 

Ijllt (hi 07y,,,, 

't'l' Cfllt., full 
trcotl thiMiigli 
'1' iIk k'iikagu 
isod pressure. 

01' bl'loW tin; 

ItillLT tlif sup- 
f initiiil ])rt'i)« 
I'ip^* i!y fx- 
(■liaigod in an 

t'cet ill li'iigtii, 
largod iiiKicr 
11. iiiul U miles 
in aiii|K:Gin. 

t'lit. liiiiisliil- 

li'ut wijcnthe 

liuiu'd ^T'l, in 

osiou isiiliout 

iTiiUire 2174". 

urtiouri of giis 

f giis, and fnr 
C}'liiidcr iit'li 

ig Ibj iwulu- 

Tonrs.— Loavf 
ail 1)0 .spinvil. 
twp, mid tipeu 
per troiii .sliiiul 
tli(! ivlort ai;il 
ot" coal al'lcr 
J, aud wliL'ii it 

itus, 1 111. with 
e lirukcii pint 
jvcr it Willi a 

iKiNfi IIkat.— 
i.\ pR'.s.-;(;iliiiiil 
tor !i.s may he 
J'oll it iiT the 
:;k, prcsding il 

fi ])int of goiMl 
water, lliuugli 
:()untr)-, wliiii- 



MACIIIMSTS, ENUINEEIIS, iC., RECEIPTS. 280« 

.\f.\r,.\Kri/.Ki) Watck Wouks. — Tlio only cure is to |)iit in a gold 
or Iir.iss halaiico aiid now lu'iidnlmn spring. Tho most, inlon.so 
lieiil will not oradioiitc t,lio tronhlo. 

Ckmiont kok IjEathkr. — Hisnipiiide of carbon, Ti oz. ; lick gntta 
pcrclia, 1 oz. Tlic latter is like thin ei,r!y« sliavjng.s of Icallior 
and must ho added a little at a time. Cork up tiglit,.iiid it is lit for 
using in 10 or 12 hours. 

To l!i:i'Aiif liKAKAciKH i\ FiKE ENCiiNE llosi'3. — Pas3 a roiiud bar of 
noil iiit the hose uiulor the leak, then rivet on a patch of leather, 
lircviuusly coaled with marine gliio. 

AyiAUiA Ckmknt. — ]\Ii.\ ?qnal (juantilics of dry white load and 
red lead to a paste with mastic varnish, aud u.sc as soon as mixed. 

Xi:\v .Stkam I'acki.no. — Take long coils or continuous strands of 
fla.\ 01 hemp loosely tv.'isted, or better still, with scarcely any twist, 
Siitiiruto lliese colls in molted grease or tallow, and give tliein a 
(riMid thorough coating with as much hl.-ick lead or jilumbago 
(liiiely pulverized;, as the material will absorb. It is a most supe- 
rior article. 

i'Ai'KU FiiiCTioN Pfij.KVS. — Thcso supcrior mcci'.anical contri- 
vances are made by cutting pieces of jia.-steboard into a circular 
li)rm,and of the desired diameter of tho j)ulloy, aiul jdacing them 
ill layers one on the *op of another, cementing ]»roperly with a 
liood coat of glue between each layer, pounding or pressing them 
t'lgetlieras (do.se as ]»ossilde, and leaving a perforation in tho centre 
of each, for tho shaft. When yon have got enough of those layer.s 
together to give you the jiroper breadth of pulley, allow the glue to 
haidi'ii. then turn it olfto a smooth hnish in a lathe. Secure each 
side of the pulley with a good stout iron llange largo enough to 
cover tho entire diameter, or nearly so, and with [iropor usage it 
will last a long lime. 

(^lANTirv A.M) Cost of Sltpmes for IIok.sks and LfMiiEiiiNu 
t'liKus IN 'I'HK Woods. — Tho following ligiires have been kindly 
fuiiiishod for this work by the obliging manager of Messsrs. (Jiil- 
uKiiir's mill on the CJatinoau, near Ottawa, Canada, and are most 
valiialdo as all'ording a basis for calculating tho (luantity and 
.|'ialilyofth .siijiidies re(|uired for men and liorses ongagc^d in 
lliis liiaiudi of industry. Those calculations are the lesnlt of long 
.'xperieneo in the business, and are based on actuul consumption. 
Quantity of ( »ats for each span of horses, 51 lbs per day. 
" Hay " '■ 10 " 





riour 


use 


I bv 


eacl 


1 man 


1 .H() 






Tork 




11 




11 


1.22 






r,o(if 




« 




(1 


O.H.I 






1 Jeans 




li 




a 


o.:;:; 






Fish 




(( 




11 


0.12 






f k ti 11 ill 


, 


a 




11 


ri 





Potatoes " 



0.41 



Total daily consumption per man 'l.:rJ 



[I 'I 



<j)iuuitity pf Tea used 



\\ Ib^. per monili. 



The dailytillowMiK*' of oats for eaeh span of horses may appear 
lar^f, luit it must l»c renieniin'red that the laboiii i o.xtroniely 



2805 MACniNTRTS, ENGTS'EERS, &C., RECETftf^. 



!IU,M 




I : 



w\ 



h; i. 



H 



pcvero, and more liny will bo roqnirrd ifnny part of tlic oatg ia 
witlield. Oil niakiiij? oii((iiirv with roti'ivnce to tlic itcni of 
nioliisscs, so largely iist'd by our liiiiihcriiij,^ I'rieiida in Xcw ilnins- 
wick and Maine, tljo answer n'turiii'd wuh tlial owinjr to tj),. li,.,ivv 
cost of the conimcdity, it wan cnlircly omitted from the list of 
supplies. The fjlloT\'iii}^ exhll)its tiie eomparativo value of Mes8 
and Prime Mess lor!", calculated from actual consumption :— 



Mess J'ork. 



J* rime Mrts. 



$•20 §18 SO 

25... IS 08 

24 17 ;{r) 

23 J(i <;2 

22 15 S'J 

'21 15 115 

20 

19 

IS .., 

1 liarrel Mess averages 



U -l.'i 
13 70 
12 07 



Mi'ss J'ork. ./'rime Mm. 

$17 ;^lj 24 

."»- U 51 



10. 
15. 
14. 
13. 
12. 
11. 
10., 
9. 



1.1 Th 

10 (If) 

8 ;,'J 

7 u\ 

V i;i 

10 



57 lbs. grease, Olbs bones, when coijkotl 

1 " Prim- Moss 2.:. "■ 13 " " 

Tough Tyi'K Mktal. — Lead 100 part?, antimony 32 parl.^, titi P. 

To Repair Cka'^kep BELLn. — The discordant tones of a crackid 
bell being duo to the jurriiig of the rugged uni'vea edges of tlio 
crack against each ctl.er, the best remedy that can be apiilii d is to 
cut a thin slit with "^ tootldear saw driven at a very high vclneity, 
say 3 or 4,000 revolutions jrr minute, in such a manner as to cut 
away tl.'". opposing e<lges of th fracture wiierever they conic in 
contact. This will restore the rigiiial tone of the bell. 

To Separate Tin from Lead. — If the lead and tin are in solution 
precipitate the former by i^ulphuric acid 'Mid the latter with siil- 
jihuretted hydrogen gas^. Jn an alloy th. lead will di-ssolve in 
nitric acid, leaving th tin as ui o.xide. 

Uu-NAMENTAL Desions ON yiLVEu. — Scloct a PmootU part of tlic 
silver, and sketch on it u ni-nograni or any other design you 
choose, with a harp load pencil, then ]»lace the article in a gold 
solution wi t the !;atterv in gocxl working onler, and in a slmri 
time all the p.'iita not sketched with the leail iiencil will be covered 
with a coat of gold. After cleansing the article, the black lead is 
easily removed by the lingers, and the silver ornament disclosed. A 
gold ornament may be pnjduced by reversing the proc(^ss. 

FisiBLB 'Ietai- kok Casis. — Hismntli, s ]iarts, lead, 5 parts, tin 
3 parts. Jt wdl nudtat 200®, or under boiling water. For male 
casts use tin only. 

PHi.NTKu'd Ink. — Linseed oil boiled to a thick varnish, ami a 
sulhcient quantity of vermillioii or i'russian blue ground with it tu 
give the re<piired dejith f color. 

To Repaiu Leaks in Leao Pipek. — Place the jioint of a dull nail 
over the leak, give it a gentle tap with a han.mer and the How of 
water will cease. 

To Improve Printer's Rollers. — The French composition piT- 
vents damp rollers and oiherwise iin|iiove3 Uieni. It is made as 
follows: for a 24 inch roller take Russian isinglass ^ oz. ; gehiliiio 
i oz. ; when the usual composition, (see page lU'),) is ready fop 
)iouritii.', add the above t«) it, let all l)oil ,| 'lour longer, and cast in 
the usual way. 



1 •[ 



if tlio nnts i<( 
tlic itom of 
n \c\v IJnins. 
^ lo the lu'iivv 
ni the list of 
Viiliii' (if iMess 
iptioii :— 

J 'rime ^f/>!ilt. 

^\1 24 

11 r.i 

1<( 7S 

10 (If) 

y :;2 

, 8 ;,D 

7 m; 

V i;{ 

(; ID 

when cookoil 

ii 

I part.^, iin ?^. 
i of a ciiickid 

C'tlgfS Ol" tin! 

)e applifil is to 
lii^li velocity, 

niicr as to cut 
tlicy come in 

l)ell. 

arc in solution 

tttcr witii sul- 
111 dirfsolve in 

th part of the 
er design you 
tick' in a ijold 
iiid in a sliori 
will bf covered 
le black lend \i 
nt di^^closcd. A 

|-OC(^SS. 

ad, f) i)art3, tin 
lor. For male 

arnisli, and a 
oimd with it to 

it of a dull nail 
and the tlow of 

)inpnHition pn'- 

It is made us 

i oz. ; geliUino 

1*1, ) is ready fur 

^er, and oiiat in 



WACIIINLSTS, EKCJlMEERf?; vV^C; RECEIl'T.S. 



2S0o 



riLA.sTiN(i Powder.— Reduce se;>«;v//t/?/ to jiowder, 2 parts chlorato 
of potassa and 1 part red sulphiiret of arsenic ; mix very lifihtly 
tojxetlier, or; powder separately, 5 parts chlorate of potassa; 'J parts 
red pulphiirct of arsenic, and 1 part ferrocyanide of potassium 
(priipsiate of j)Otas3a) ; mix carefully, or; mix carefully as before, 
after having sejiarateiy reduced to i>owder equal parts chlorate of 
potassa and fcrroi-yanide of potassium. These pos.scss ei^ht times 
the ex))lo.sive force of gunpowder and must bo used with tho 
greatest, can ti'o.i. 

On "Woon Cuts and Xkw Wood Tyi'e.s — AVood cuts should 
never be washed with lye or water, benzine or campheneoidy should 
be used. Largo Avood letters when new should be soaked in a 
niixtiiro of turpentine and thin boiled linseed oil overnight, and 
taken out of the bath in the morning and then wiped clean. Let 
fiieni stand awhile to absorb what oil, etc., may not have been 
removed Iiy wiping, then ink them well. After they stand a few 
hours Nvash them with benzine. 

PiUNTKUs' Rollers. — No. 1. Black Composition, very durable and 
elastic. Genuine Irish or Bufllilo glue, 10^ lbs., black sugar cane, or 
best maple molasses, 1 gal., pnrilied lailia rubber shavings, 1 lb., 
Carolina tar, 2 ozs., glycerine, 12 ozs., strong vinegar, 4 ozs. 
Soak the glue over night and drain in llie morning by means of a 
r.wv'«'i/ cullender. Boil molasses and .skim for 20 minutes. Add the 
rubber shavings and stir until it combines with the molasses, add 
tlicjilue and boil for forty minutes, occasionally stir the mass, ad(^ 
the tar and glycerine boil G or 7 minutes, and pour, k' purified 
rubber cannot bo procured add U, lbs. more pi no and 4 oz. more 
glycerine. No. 2. for Summev use. No. 1 glue, 2 lbs. ; Baeder's glue, 
2 "lbs. ; best sugar house molasses, 1 gal. , glycerine, ^ pt. For 
\\int< r use, reduce each glue i to ^ of a lb. Soak the glues wrapped 
up separately in woolen cloths about three hours. Boil iho 
molasses 45 or 50 minutes, skinmiing thoroughly. Then add the 
glues drained of superfluous water. Boil the whole for 15 or 20 
miuute.-^, add the glvcerine, boil and stir 3 to 5 minutes then pour 
oil". i\o. :.<. i:>lroiig MiJdlv. Weallw.r IxoUers. Temp. GO'^ to 70" Fahr. 
Coopers best glue, 8i lbs ; extra syrup, 2 gals. ; glycerine, 1 ])t. ; 
Venice turpentine, 2 oz. Hteop the glue in rain water until pliant, 
and drain it W(dl. Then melt it over a moderate lire, but do not 
"cook it." This will lake from 15 to 25 minutes. Next put in the 
syrup.and boil jj of an hour, stirring it occasionally and skimmine; 
oil" iviipurities arising to the surface. Add the glycerine and tur- 
pentine a few minutes before removing from the fire, and pour 
slowly. Slightly reduce or increase the glue as the weather be- 
comes colder or warmer. 

i>ii.vKi!iN(} SoLirrioN FOR ELKCTKOTYrE Plates. — Nitrate of silver 
2 drs. ; distilled water, :',7 drs. Dissolve, and add sal ammoniac, 
1 ilr. ; liydrophosphite of soda, 4 drs.; precii)itatcd chalk, -1 drs. 
AjT't'i''' lh« preparation occasionally for 12 hours Avheu it will be 
ready for use. Apjdy with apiece of line sponge 



i' 



a 



l-H,'l ll> FOR BRlOUTKNlNd CoMMON QkALITJKS OP BlACK OH 

oz. ; balsam fir, ^ oz. ; oil ber- 




:n L\KS. — Deniar varnish, 1 



gamut, 25 drops ; lialsam of cojuiiba, :>5 drops ; creosote, 10 drops ; 
LOpiU vuruish, 50 drops. Uijc in small ^uautiticd. The whilCij vf 



MyV- 



H\ ' 



• I 



2.S0(/ 



MACHINISTS, ENtllNKEKh:, &C,, IlECElI'T.S. 



fre~li('f^,^.-;!in' 



Iso l)ri;^liU'n<'r,-! fif Cdlcn!'! iik:-, ])iit tlicy must, Jig 



Ufplicd a link' at, a time, as they dry very liaid, and an 



ipt U, 



tako away I lie suction ol' rollers if usfd for any (.•xloiidcd piTioil 

(Jooi) "Ukpucing Drykk. — Brown's (genuine) Japan. I'sc in 
Btnall (|!ianliti('s, 

IIaimikmnc (ii.oss kok Inks. — Gum A raljic dissolved in idcojioi 
or a weak dilution of oxalic acid. Use in i^iuuU (pumtiiies^ .-luj 
nii.v with tln! ink as 1 he latter is consumed. 

To (;ivio D.Muc Inks A niiONzn ou CuANOioATtLi-; IlrR.— Diisolve ],', 
llis. RUin shellac in 1 <<;iil. 'J'> per cent alcohol or colo£rnesi)irit.s for 
21 Jionrs. Then add l-l o/s. analino red. Let it stand a few honrs 
lon^^er, when it will ho ready for use. Add this to p)0(l bhic. 
l>lack, or other dark iidc. as needed in quantities to suit, mIumi if 
carefully doue they will be found to Lave a rich bronze or cliiiii"(;. 
aide hue. 

<>ui('K Dryek foi! Inks t'skd on HooKBiNnrRa casks.— Drc's wax 
1 oz.,guni arable (dissolved in sudieicnt acetic acid to make atliiu 
juucilage) ,] oz., IJrown'ri Japan, | oz. Incorporate with 1 lb. of 
good Cut iidt. 

To Hk.new a riARn Rolmou. — Wash the roller carefiilty with Ijo 
cover the surface with a thin layer of molasses and lay it aside til! 
the next niorninjj, then wash it with water, and let it haiii,' till 
dry enough for using. 

'"r<) Tra.\sf!;u Pictures from Paper to Wood for Re-fncuavint, 
— Hoak the jrint in a saturated solution of alcohol and wliitc cuis- 
tic potash to softeu the ink, then transfer to the block under rol- 
ler pressure. 

CiL-.M FOR BACKTxr, Larelr. — Mix purc dextrine witli lioilinn 
Water until it assumes thn consistency of ordinary mueilajfi', 
Ajiply with u full l^odied, evenly mtide camel's iiair 'brush. Tlio 
l)a])er should not be too thin or unsized. It will dry quickly and 
adhere when slightly wet. 

Pkof. lioTTOERS Portable Tne.— ^lako tlic strongest p()«>il)lc 
solution of analino l)laek in water or alcohol, and soak thick uu 
sized ])aper thoroughly to imbibe mixture, and then dry. 

CoLORixr, AND Si/.ixa OF Pai'er. — Paper is adulterated witlijilaj 
ter of Paris, sometimes to the extent of IIO percent., to increase tlie 
weight. Ih'own paper is mixed with ochre and clay, the niaiuifuc- 
turers say to give it a nice brown color, but doubtless, the tnip 
reason is, to make it heavier. White soap, glne, starch, and diS' 
Bolvctl rosin will', a few pounds of altun, form a good size for ])riiit' 
ing paper to mix with the imlp. Four or live pounds oxide ofcoliiilt 
(snuilt3).givc a beautiful blue tinge to line writing paper,wheii added 
to 100 lbs. of the rags. Writing paper is sized by being dipped 
.I or slicets at a time into a composition made from skins and 
other animal substances, a large ])ile of it being afterwards prcs.s(.'d 
to force out the su]ierlluity, although machines now exist niiikini,' 
fine writing 'taper, sized with gelatnie, dried, and cut into slieets, 
Jit the rale of t;o feel u minute in length, and 7(i inches wide. 

On. FOR Pink Mi:(IIAMs.m. — Oil for fine mechanism can bi' ]ire- 
pared by ]-utliiig zinc and lead shavings, in e<iMal parts, inU>"g<>od 
Kloreuce olive oil, and placing iii a cool place until the oil buoidiiw 
colorless. 



UVT6. 



T'SEFUL ITEMS FOR DAILY REMEMIUIANCK. 



281 



■ llicy must ],e 

, illlll iU-V !ipt I,, 
I'lUlctl IHTilill. 

iipau. l',s(; in 

(Ivnl ill iilcoliol 
(iiiiiutilics, auij 

■R.— Diisolvci,', 
lojrucsitirit.sror 
iiul a lew lioiirs 
to fri)()(l blue, 
to suit, wboiiif 
jnzc or clifiujj'i;- 

rs.— Hfc's wiix, 
I to iiiiikc iitliiu 
to with 1 lb. of 

rfiilty with lye, 

lay it aside till 

I lei ll Laii^' till 

ii Rk-fnciiavint, 
and whiti' aim- 
block iiiiik'r rol- 

ic with lioilinp 
nary im;eilnq:i', 
lair 'brush. TIh; 
dry quickly and 

ronj^jost ii()s>il)lc 

I soak thick uii 

II dry, 

cralcd wiUiiila- 
., to increase tlic 
ly, tlio luaiiiifac- 
lihtlcss, the true 

starch, and diS' 
;)d sizo lor |)rlut' 
5 oxidi! orcohiiU 
apcr,\vbeuaiKk'(l 
jy bciu;.? diiipcd 

from skins and 
tcrwards ju'essed 
o\v exist laakin;,' 

cut into sheet;, 
dies Aviile. 
sin can !"■ V^'^'- 

I'arls, iuKr^iiud 
1 (he oil bec(»mw 



O.v Mkltin'! and f{KFi\iN(i. — III incltjnff n>-nss dold, uv^v (ho 
lin; to ft geut lieat, and stir tlic metal with the long stem of a 
tuliaceu j)i[)0 to iircvcnt lioiipy combing. If.SVrrVor Jroii Ji/iiif/ 
get into gold while melting, throw in a piece of sandiver the size 
of a coniniou nut ; it will attract the ironl^r steel from the gold 
into the fhix, or, sublimate of mercury will destroy tlic iron or 
steel. To cause (.1 old to roll well, melt with a good heat, add a 
te.is'poonfid of sal ammoniac and charcoal, equal (luantilies, lioth 
itiilveriseti, stir up well, put on tho cover for 2 minutes and poiu-. 

Koii tSiLVKKSMiTiis, tSTKHLiNft Sir.vKR. — 1. Fine Silrer 11 oz, 2 
dwts., line copper 18 dwts. 2. Equal tc Slcrlinr/ — Fine silver 1 
07.., line copjier 1 dwt', 12 grs. 3. Another <lil/o— Vino silver 1 oz., 
fine copper 5 dwts. 4. Common Silv>r for ChuinH — Fine silver G 
(hvts., line copjier 4 dwts. b. Solihr/or dilfo — Fine silver 10 dwts., 
tine cnjiper 12 grs., pin brass 3 dwts, 12 grs. G. Allot/ for JHatiiKj 
— FiMe .silver 1 oz., fino copper 10 dwts. 7. Silver Solder— F'lno. 
silver 1 oz., pin brass 10 dwts., pure spelter 2 dwts. 8. C'op/ier 
Sol'ler for rlatimj — Fine silver 10 cwts., fine copper 10 dwts. 
0. Cnvimon Silver Solder — Fine silver 10 ozs., pin brass G ozs. 12 
dwts, s])elter 12 dwts. 10. Silver Solder for Euumcllin^, $l/'f»' oz. 
—Fine silver 14 dwts, fine copi»er 8 dwts. 11. Ditto, for Jil'ini/ 
!^iiinet RiniiH — Fine silver 10 ozs., fine copper 1 oz. IGdwts., line 
]iiii liras's G ozs 12 dwts., spelter 12 dwts. 12. Silver Solder for 
Uoil rialinfi — Fine silver 1 oz., fine cop]>er 5 dwts., pin bras.s T) 
dwts. 13. Quirk Silver Solder — Fine silver 1 oz., jtin brass 10 
dwti-'., bar tin 2 dwts. 14. Imitution Silver— Fine silver 1 oz., 
nickel 1 oz. 11 grs., fine cojtpcr 2 ozs. 9 grs. 15. Another ditto — 
Fine silver 3 ozs., nickel 1 oz. 11 dwts., fine co))per 2 ozs. \) grs., 
speller 10 dwts. IG. FiJic Silver Solder for Fitiyree Work. — Fine 
-;ilver t dwts. G grs.. pin brass 1 dwt. i7. Jiism,uth Solder— liU- 
muth :'> ozs. lead 3 ozs. 18 dwts., tin 5 ozs. G dwts. 



rSEFUL ITEMS FOR DAILY KE.MK.MBllAXCE. 

JiixiAi- Brevities. — .\ note dated on Sunday i.s vr)id. A note 
obtained by fraud, or from one intoxicated, is void. If a note be 
lost or stolen, it does not relea.se the maker, h< must pjiy it. An 
endorser of a note ir, exempt from liability, if no* served with 
notice of its d^ uonor within 24 hours of its iion iiaymont. A note 
by a minor is void. Notes l)ear interest only when so stated. Prin- 
eipaksare responsible for their agents. Each individiuil "n ])artncr- 
siiiji is responsible for the whole amount of the debts of the linn. 
Ik no ran CO of the law oxcyses no one. It is a fraud to conceal a 
fraud. it is illegal to compound a felony. Tlie law compels no 
one to do impossibilities. An agreement without a consideration 
i.s void. Siguatiiros i.i lea«l pencil are good in law. A rec< ipt for 
ni'iiuy is not legally conclusive. The acts of one partner bind all^ 
tlieoihers. Contracts made on Sunday cannot lie enforced. A' 
ooutrael with a minor is void. A contract made with a lunatic is 
v'tiil Written contracts coucerniiiii land must be under seal. 



282 USEFUL ITEMS FoR DAILY UEMEMIJilANOE. 



A TAHLE OF DAILY SAVINGS AT COMPOUND INl'EHKST. 
Cents per JJaj Per Yenr la Ten Yeiirs J'Vll J''«r 






2i. 

5i. 

11 . 

27^. 

55 . 

1.10 .. 

1.37 .. 



10. 

20. 

10. 

>0. 
200. 
400. 
500.. 



fSc 



■i? 2,; 1(10 
r),8o() 



.$ 130 

. 2<!0 , 

. f>20 Ii;(;()() 

■ •1,300 u;»,()0(j 

• 2,G00 ,5,s,0()0 

.5,200 Il(i,()(i0 

.G,500 li:.,0()() 



By the above table it appears tbat if a niechauic, or dork siivuj 
2''l ;»er day from the time he i.s 21 t.ll he is 70, tlie total \vit!i interest 
will amount to $2,!.>00, und a daiiy .saving of 275 cents rciiclus \\w 
important sum of !?2y,000. Save all you can in a jirudenl niiiimei 
for a time of possible want, but act ju.stly by l>aying yonr dehts 
and liberally by assist) ug those in need, and helping in a goud 
cause. 

On Pkokane Sweaking — Let every man do his best to diseoiin- 
tenance this al)onjiuable habit, and shun it as an acciu'scd .sin in 
every i)o.^siblo way. No respectable person will allow hinij(flf lu 
be guilty of it. Business men who make a practice of it will liml 
themselves avoided by the best class of customers, for I know tlint 
Borne persons can sutler no mental punishment equal to that i i- 
flicted by being compelled to listen to profane language .Besides 
every man known as a profane swearer, will not be credited liy 
those whose good opmiou is worth having, even when he uuiy Uo 
speaking the truth. 

Act Well Your Paut, Don't lU': f^ELKiSii. — Remember fbat It is 
by imparting happiness to others, and making ourselves useful, 
that we receive happiness. Stand l>y this truth, live it out, aiul 
always keep doing something useful lor the common good, doing 
it well, and acting sincerely. Endeavour to keep your heart in 
the attitude of cherishing good will to all, thinking and siK-aking 
evil of no one, and always with a kind -vord for everybody. Scl- 
lishness is its own curse ; it is a starving vice. Tlie man who 
does no gi)od gets none, lie is like the heath in the desert, neitlier 
yielding fruit nor seeing when good cemieth, a stunted dwarlLsli, 
miserable shrub. Let all your influence be e.xerteMl for the puriiose 
of doing all yuu cm fur the common good, and individual welliue 
of every one. 

Maukiaoe Ma.xi.ms. — A good wife is the greatest earthly ble.ssi^<,^ 
A wife never makes a greater mistake than when she endeavours 
to coerce her husband with other weapons than those of love and 
affection. Those weapons are a sure pull if he has any iliiiig 
human left in him. Forbear mutual upbraidings. In writing letters, 
during temporary separation, let noihing coutniry to love and 
sincere aifeetion be expressed, such letters from a wife liave a most 
jtowerful emotional elfect, sometimes little understood by tlioso 
who writ them. It is the mother who moulds the clianietcr and 
destiny of the child as to the exteriors, therefore let caliniiess, 
peace, aifeetion, and lirmness rule her conduct townnis her cliilil- 
ren. Ciiildren are great imitators, whether they have scold injf or 
peaceful mothers, they are generally sure to learn from the evaiiijik's 
Bct before tUeui, aud thus the cuU5)C(|Ucut joy or sorrow is ir.ius- 



USEFUL ITEMS FOR DAILY REMEMBRANCE. 



283 



ferrod to other families, therefore let mothers take heed to their 
comliict. It id uoi purfsiblc tu exercise judgment and i)nid('iif!n too 
Hiiicli b-tbre entering on the married life. \k\ sure tliat the afll'C- 
tioiis ou both sides ^re so perfectly iiiterlwined around eacli other, 
tiiat, tlie two as it were, form one mind, this requires time ; and a 
tlioroiigli mutual knowledge on botli sides. Marrj- i i your own re- 
lisrion, aud into a dillereut blood and temperament from your own. 
BlmkI yoiu" wliole powers to avoid depreciatory remarks, jibing and 
anger in every form, and specially avoid everlastingly dishing up 
nny uiisuccessfid past action that was done from a good motive aud 
Willi tlie liest intentions at the time. Let nothing foreign to tho 
spirit of love and mutual affection intervene to cause dislancp 
bftwccii husband and wife; to this end let self-deniul rule ovec 
each, and reciprocal unselfishness. Avoid habitual fault-finding, 
s«ol(ling, &c., as you vould perdition itself; many men trembls as 
tliuy cross Ihiir tlireshold into the ju'esence of scolding wives. Let 
liusbatid and wife cultivate habits of sobriety, aud specially avoid 
dnuikcniiess ineveryform. What a dreadful spectacle it is to see a 
liiisbaud transformed into a demon, tottering home^vard to a brokeu- 
LfiU'ted wife, whose noble self-sacrificing devotion to him seems 
to partak. morv. of the nature of heaven than of earth. Never part 
evou (>r .. journey, without kind and endearing words, and as a 
kiss symbolizes union from interior affection, do not spare it on 
such jccasions, repeating it when you return. In one word, let 
love ride supremo. 

CdiLDfE.v ANO llojiti! CONVERSATION. — Children hunger perpetu- 
a,ly for new ideas. Tliey will learn with pleasure from the lips of 
paiiMits wiiat they deem drudgery to learn from books, and even if 
they irivo the misfortune to be deprived of many educational ad- 
vantages they will grow up intelligent if they enjoy in childhood 
the piivilege of listening to the conversation of intelligent people. 
LeHhein have many oi)portunitie3 of learning in this way. Bo 
kind to them, and don't think it beneath you to a'lswer their little 
qiKrJtioiis, f(.. they proceed from an implanted faculty which every 
tiMie mati jmd woman should take u great delight iu gratifying. 

iloMn AKTKii 13usiNEas HoLTHs. — Happy is the man who can find 
that s liace and that poetry at home. Warm greetings from loving 
ht'iirts, fond glances from bright eyes, fud welcome shouts of 
morn hearted children, the many thousand little arrangements for 
comfort a id enjoyment, that silently tell of thoughtful and expec- 
tant love, these arc the ministrations that reconcile us to the proso 
of life. Think of this ye 'wives and daughters of business men I 
Tliink of the toils, the an.xieties, the mortification and wear that 
fatliers undergo to secure for you comfortable homes, and 
conuiensatc them for their toils by milking them happy by their 
own fi-e side. 

\Vi;i,L WoitTHV OP Imitation. — A worthy Quaker thus wrote : — 
"I exjieet to ])ass through tiiis world but oiice. If iberefore, there 
1)0 any kindness I can do to any fellow being, let me do it now. 
lot me not defer nor neglect it, for I will not pass this way again. 
Wer.' all to act I bus how many would be made hapi)y! 

A.N'oTUKii Sknsiulk (,tUAKKK. — A (Quaker lately projioundcd the 
moiiieutous (luestion to a fair Quakeress, as follows: ''Hum! yea 



i I 



284 USEFUL ITEMS FOR DAILY REMEMBRANCE 



mi 



and verily ; Penelope, ^ne sp.—u urgctn ana movotn me wonaer- 
fully to beseech thee to cleave unto me, flesh of my llesh, and 
bone of my bone." " Hum ! ti-uly, Obadiah, thou hast wisely said. 
Inasmuch as it is not good for man to be alone, lOj I will sojourn 
with tliee." 

_ Table Conversation.— Instead of swallowing your food in sullen 
silence, or brooding over your business, or severely talking about 
others, let the conversation at the table be genial, kind, social and 
cheering. Don't bring any disagreeable subjects to the table in 
your conversation, any more than you would in your dishes. Avoid 
scandal'-'ing people, and never cherish a jubilant feeling over the 
infirmiiics or misfortunes of others. Tlie more good company you 
have at your table the better. Hence the intelligence, refinement 
and appropriate behaviour of a family given to hospitality. Nevor 
feel that intelligent visitors can be anything but a blessing to you 
and yours. 

Keep the House Clean and well Ventilated.— A neat, clean. 
fresh aired, sweet, cheerful, well arranged house, exerts a moral 
influence over its inmates, and makes the members of a family 
peaceable and considerate of each other's feelings ; on the contrary, 
a filthy, squalid, noxious dwelling, contributes to make its inhab- 
itants seliishj sensual, and regardless of the feelings of others. 
Never sleep in a small close bedroom, either during summer or 
winter without free ventilation from door or windows, unless other- 
wise supplied with abundance of fresh air. It will be seen that 
a person's house usually corresponds to his character. 

Safe Business Rulks. — Business men, in business hours, attend 
ONLY to business matters. Social calls are best adapted to the 
SOCIAL circle. Make your business known in few wohds, without 
loss of time. Let your dealijjgs with a stranger be most CAitEFtiLiY 
considered, and thied friendship duly appreciated. A mean act 
will soon recoil, and a man of honour will be esteemed. Leave 
" Thicks of Tuadk " to those whose education was never completed. 
Treat all with rospocf, confide in few, wrong no man. Be never 
afraid to sny No, and always prompt to acknowledge and rectify a 
wrong. Leave nothi ig for to-morrow that should be done to-day. 
Becauge a friend is polite, do not think his time is valueless. Have 
a PLACE for every thing, and every thing in its place. To preserve 
LONO friendship, keep a short cuedit, the way to get credit is to 
be punctual ; the way to preserve it is not to Uiusit much. Settlb 
OFTEN ; have SHORT accounts. Trust no man's appearances, they 
are often deceptive, and assumed for the purpose of obtaining cre- 
dit. Rogues generally dress well. The rich are generally plain 
MEN. Be WELL satisfied before you give a credit, that those to 
WHOM Tou aivs IT are safb mm to be trusted. 



.NCE 



me wonaer- 
ny Uesh, and 
it wisely said. 

will sojourn 

food in sullen 
talking about 
nd, social and 
to the table in 
dishes. Avoid 
2ling over the 
company you 
ce, refinement 
itality. Nevor 
leasing to you 

A neat, clean, 
xerts a moral 
rs of a family 
n the contrary, 
lake its inhab- 
ng3 of others. 
ng summer or 
3, unless other- 
1 be seen that 
er. 

3 hours, attend 

adapted to the 

woHDS, without 

MOST CAliEFULLY 
d. A MEAN ACT 

TEEMED. Leave 
ever completed. 
MAN. Be never 
,ge and rectify a 
be done to-day. 
alueless. Have 
ce. To preserve 

lET CREDIT is tO 

it much. Settle 
PEAHANCES, they 
)f obtaining cre- 
generally I'lain 
.t, that those to 



INTEREST TABLE, 

AT SIX PER ^E^^T., Iff l>OLr.AUS AND CENTS FROM ONE DOLLAR TO 

TU-V THOUSAND. 



2 
3 
4 

5 
6 

7 
6 
9 

10 

20 

30 

40 

50 

100 

200 

300 

400 

500 

1000 

2000 

3000 

4(»00 

5000 

10000 



I day. 



c. 

00 

CO 

00 

00 

0<) 

00 

00 

GO 

00 

00 

001 

00* 

oo| 

01 

01} 

03 

05 

07 

08 

17 

33 

50 

67 

83 

67 



7 days. 


15 days. 


1 mo. 


3 mo3. 


6 mos 


12 aio3. 


$ c. 


* c. 


« c. 


9 c. 


$ c. 


9 c. 


1)0 


001 

oot 


OOi 


01 J 


03 


0(5 


ooi 


01 


03 


00 


12 


()(ll 


00 


Oli 


04i 


00 


18 


OOi 


01 


02 


06 


12 


24 


00', 


Oli 


m 


07i 


15 


8» 


00? 

ooj 


Oli 


03 


09 


18 


86 


01. 


03i 


10* 


21 


4a 


01 


02 


(H 


12 


24 


43 


01 
01 i 


021 
03} 


04i 
05 


13i 
15 


27 

30 


61 

60 


02 1 


05 


10 


30 


60 


1 20 


03V 


07i 


15 


45 


90 


■ 1 80 


04] 


10 


20 


60 


1 20 


2 40 


06 


12i 


25 


75 


1 50 


3 00 


11 

23i 


26 


50 


1 50 


3 00 


6 00 


50 


r 00 


3 00 


6 00 


12 00 


35" 


75 


1 50 


4 50 


9 00 


18 00 


46J 

581 


1 00 


2 00 


6 00 


12 00 


24 UO 


1 25 


2 50 


7 50 


15 00 


30 00 


1 l<i\ 


2 50 


5 00 


15 00 


30 00 


60 00 


2 33i 


5 00 


(■) 00 


30 00 


60 00 


120 00 


3 50' 


7 50 


15 00 


45 00 


90 00 


I'-.o 00 


4 m 


10 00 


20 00 


60 00 


I'M 00 


'210 00 


5 83', 


12 50 


25 00 


75 00 


150 no 


3: to 00 


11 66i 


-25 00 


50 00 


150 00 


300 00 


600 00 



AT SEVEN PER CENT., IN DOLLXftS AND CENTS, B-ROM ONE DOLLAR 

TO TEN THOUSAND. 



07 
14 
21 

28 
35 
42 
49 
50 
63 
70 

1 40 

2 10 

2 SO 

3 50 
7 00 

14 00 

21 GO 

28 

35 00 

70 00 

140 00 

210 00 

280 00 

3r,0 00 

700 00 



1 


00 




OO 


00^ 


OOi 


01 1 


03} 


2 


00 


OOi 


00 


01; 


03 
05 


07 


3 


00 


00 J 


oo; 


or 

02; 


10} 


4 


00 


00. 


01 


07 


14 


5 


00 


00 


Oli 

01; 


03 


083 


1"} 


6 


00 


ooi 


03i 


10} 
I2I 


2r 


7 


00 


01 


02 


04 


24} 


8 


00 


01 


02| 
02 


04J 


14 


28 


9 


00 


ou 


05' 


153 


31} 


10 


OOj 


' 


01^ 
023 


03 


06| 


l"i 


35 


20 


001 




06 


11 


35 


70 


30 


00 
00- 




04 


09 


17} 


52} 


1 05 , 


40 




061 

oof 


12 


23} 


70 


1 40 


50 


01 . 


15 


29 


87} 


1 75 


100 


02 


13 


29 


58 


1 75^ 


8 50 


200 


04 


27i 


58 


1 16g 


3 50 


7 00 


300 


06 


40^ 


87i 


1 75 


5 25 


10 59 


400 


08 


54i 


1 17 


2 33i 


7 00 


14 00 


500 


10 


68 


1 4o 


2 94 


8 75 


17 50 


10(10 


19} 


1 3t) 


2 92 


5 83| 


17 50 


35 00 


20(X) 


39 


2 72i 


5 83 


11 og| 


35 00 


70 00 


3000 


58 


4 OSj 


8 75 


17 50 


52 50 


105 00 


4000 


78 


5 44] 

6 80^ 


11 67 


23 33J 
29 If,? 


70 00 


140 00 


5000 


97 


14 58 


87 50 


175 00 


10000 


194 




13 61 


29 17 


58 3.3 


175 00 


350 00 




: \ 



READY UEUKtJNEll^ 2,000 LBS, TO THE TON, 

PRODUCE AND MnRCHAMDlSB KKADT nKCKONERS HAY, BUTTEB, 
CUEU8K, LAUD AND OTHUU PltODCOB. 



}'f 



o 

H 

o 

a 

o 



o 
o 

g 

of 

«1 
o 

I 

o 
5 



.3 



o 

Pi 

o 

I 



r 



S it 



Lbs 


CtH 


cts 


,« ct 


'^cf 9cl 


S f< 


.25 


.50 


1.00 


2.0013.00 

1 


5 0('| 


3 












. 1 


7 


, , 


, , 


, , 


.""l 


. 1 


r. 


10 


, , 


, , 


. 1 


. 1 


. 2 


. 3 


20 


, , 


. 1 


. 1 


. 2 


. 3 


. (> 


30 




. 1 


.2 


. 3 


. 6 


. n 


50 


. i 


. 1 


. 3 


. 6 


. 8 


.13 


70 


. 1 


. 2 


. 4 


. 7 


.11 


.18 


80, 


. 1 


. 2 


. 4 


. 8 


.12 


.';,o 


90 


. 1 


. 2 


. 6 


. 9| .14 


.23 


100 


. 1 


. 3 


. 5 


.10 


.16 


.2;.^ 


200 


. 3 


. 6 


.10 


.20 


.30 


.50 


300 


. 4 


. 8 


.15 


.30 


.45 


.75| 


400 


. 5 


.10 


.20 


.40 


.60 


1.00' 


500 


. 6 


.13 


.25 


.50 


.75 


1.25' 


600 


. 8 


.15- 


M) 


.60 


.91 


1.50 i 


7'0 


. 9 


.18 


.3n 


.70! 1.05 


1.75i 


800 


.10 


.2) 


.40 


.80! 1 20 


2.00 


900 


.11 


.23 


.45 


.90 


1.35 


2.25 


1000 


.13 


.25 


.50 


1.00 


1.50 


2.50 


1100 


.14 


.28 


.65 


1 10 


1.65 


2.75 


1200 


.15 


.30 


.60 


1.20 


1.80 


3.00 


1300, 


.1(3 


.33 


.65 


1.30 


1.95 


3.25 


1400 


.18 


.35 


.70 


1.40 


2.10 


3.5' 1 


1500 


.19 


.38 


.75 


1.50 


2.25 


3.75 


IGOO 


.20 


.40 


.80 


1.60 


2.40 


4.00 


1700 


.21 


.43 


.85 


1.70 


2.55 


4.25 


1800 


.23 


.45 


.90 


1.80 


2.70 


4 50 


1900 


.24 


.48 


.95 


1.90 2.8". 


i.75 



. 1 

. 2 

. 8 

. 6 

. 9 

.15 

.21 

.24 

.27 

.30 

.60 

.90 

1.20 

1.60 

1.80 

•UQ 

2.40 

2 70 
8."0 

3 30 
3.60 
3.90 
4.20 
4.50 
4.80 
5.10 
5.40 
5.70 



, 1 
. 2 
. 4 

. I 
.11 

.18 

.25 

.28 

.32 

.3.5 

.70 

1.05 

1.40 

1.75 

2.10 

246 

2.80 

3.16 

3.50 

3.S5 

4.20 

4.65 

4.90 

6.25 

5.95 
6 30 
6,6.") 



Lbsl 

3 

7 

10 

20 

30 

60 

70 

80 

90 

100 

200 

800 

400 

600 

600 

700 

800 

900 

1000 

1100 

1200 

1300 

14O0 

150rt 

1600| 

17! 'O; 

isoo' 

1900fi 12 



8 cts 


!)f Cts 


13. 'JO 


14.00 


.2 


. 2 


.6 


.5 


. 7 


.7 


.13 


.14 


.20 


.21 


.33 


.35 


.46 


.49 


.52 


.56 


.59 


.63 


.65 


.70 


1.30 


1.40 


1.95 


2.10 


260 


2.80 


3.25 


3.50 


3.90 


4.20 


4.55 


4.90 


6.20 


5.60 


6.86 


6.30 


6.50 


7.00 


7.15 


7.70 


7.80 


8.40 


8.45 


9.10 


9.10 


9.80 


9.75 


10.60 


10.40 


11.20 


11.05 


11.90 


11.70 


12 60 


]2ii5 


13.30 



» ct.i 
15.00 



. 2 
. 5 

. 8 
.15 
.23 

.38 

.53 

.60 

.68 

,75 

1.60 

2.25 

3.0<J 

3.75 

4 60 

6.25 

6.00 

6.75 

7.50 

8.25 

9.00 

9.75 

10.60 

11.2,'V 

12.00 

12.75 

13 .50 

14,25 



•S (;/.s- Sr cts 
16 00 17.00 



. 2 
. 6 

. 8 
.16 
.24 

.40 

.56 

.64 

.72 

.80 

1.60 

2.40 

3.20 

4.0^) 

4.80 

5.60 

6.40 

7.20 

8.00 

8.80 

9.60 

10.40 

11.20 

12.00 

12.80 

13.60 

14.40 

15.2'J 



, 3 
, 6 
. 9 
.17 

.26 

.43 

.CO 

.68 

.77 

.85 

1.70 

2.56 

8.40 

4.25 

6.10 

5 95 

6.80 

765 

8..50 

9.36 

10.20 

11.06 

11.90 

12.75 

13.60 

14.15 

15.30 

16 15 

2 



19.00 

. 3 

. 7 

.10 

.19 

.29 

.48 

.67 

.76 

.86 

.95 

1.90 

2.85 

3.80 

4.75 

5.70 

6.65 

7.60 

8.55 

9.50 

10.45 

11.40 

12.35 

13.^0 

14.25 

15.20 

16.15 

17.10 

18.05 



9 cts 


!* CtK; 


j 8 00] 9 00! 


. 1 


. 1 


. 3 


. 3 


. 4 


. 6 


. 8 


. 9 


.12 


.14 


.20 


.23 


.28 


.32 


.32 


.36 


.36 


.41 


.40 


.45 


.80 


.90 


1 1.20 


l.,35 


1 1.60i 1.80 


2.<K)I 2.25 


2.40 


2.70 


2.80 


3.15 


3.20 


3.60 


3.60 


4.05 


4.00 


4.50 


4.40 


4.95 


4.80 


5.40 


5.20 


5.86 


6.60 


6.30 


6.00 


6.76 


6.40 


7.20 


6.80 


7.65 


7 20 


8.10 


7.60 


C65' 



cts ' cts 



C.ti 



. 2 

. 4 

. 5 

.10 

.16 

.25 

.35 

.40' 

.46 

.601 

l.(K)' 

1 50; 

2.00i 

2.501 

3.00 1 

3.50| 

4.00j 

4.50 

5.oo! 

6.50i 
6.00 
6.60: 
7.00 
7.50: 
8.00 
8..50 
9.00 
9.50 



. 2 


.2 


.4 


. 4 


. 6 


. ti 


.11 


.12 


.17 


.18 


.28 


,;to 


.39 


.44 


.44 


48 


M 


...2 


.65 


M 


1.10 


l.vn 


l.f).') 


l.W 


2.20 


2.40 


2,75 


3.on 


ii.m 


,,m 


3.8.5 


4'Ji 


4.40 


4,») 


4.95 


5,-10 


6 6(.i 


6.(10 


05 


t;,HD 


6.60 


7.2f) 


7 15 


7.110 


7.70 


8.4fi 


8.25 


d.m 


8.80 


9.r)'i 


9.35 


10,2,t 


9,90 


I'l.Sl 


10,45 


11,40 




■ff 

^cta 

20.00 



. ( 

.10 
.20 
.30 

.50 

.70 

.80 

.90 

1.00 

2.00 

S.OO 

4.00 

5.00 

6.00 

7.00 

8.00 

9.00 

10.00 

11.00 

12.00 

13.00 

14.00 

16.1.0 

16.00 

17.00 

18.00 

19.00 



1.00 

1.13 

1.26 

2.60 

3.75 

5.00 

tt.26 

7.50 

8.75 

10.00 

11.25 

12.50 

1375 

15.00 

16.25 

17.50 

18.75 

20 00 

21.25 

22.50 

23.75 



. 6 
.14 

.20 

.40 

.60 

1.00 

1.40 

1.60 

1.80 

2,00 

4.00 

6,00 

8.00 

10 UO 

12.00 

14.00 

16.00 

18.00 

20.00 

:j2.00 

24.00 

26.00 

2S.0O 

30.00 

32 00 

34.00 

3'i.OO 

38.00 



2.00- 

225 

2.50 

5fi0 

7.50 

10.00 

12.50 

15.00 

17 60 

20.0(1 

22.50 

25.00 

27.50 

30.00 

32.50 

a5.0() 

37.50 
40.0(J 
42,60 
4o.0'l 
47.50 



: TON. 




AT, BUTTEB 


1 


•< cls r< ,7n 


Cti 


10 0" 11.00 12.00 


.2 .21 


.2 


. 4 


•4 


. 4 


. 5 


.6 


. t) 


.10 


.11 


.12 


.16 


.17 


.18 


.25 


.28 


.ao 


.35! .391 


.44 


.401 .441 


48 


.45 .50l 


.1.2 


.601 .55 


.r>o 


l.(K)! 1.10 


l.vn 


1 50 1.6.-) 


l.t'O 


2.00 '2.20 


2.40 


2.50 2.751 


3.00 


3.00 3.00 


..{» 


3.51. 


3.85 


4 2(J 


4.0( 


) 4.40 


4.»i 


4.61 


) 4.95 


5.40 


5.00! 550 


6.00 


5.50! 6 05 


6.(10 


6.00 fi.fiO 


7.20 


6.50; 7 K) 


7.iin 


7.00 7.70 


8.4(1 


7.50! 8.25 


9.(XI 


1 8.00 8.80 


9,6 1 


, 8.50 1)35 


10,2.1 


) 9.00 o.yo 


I '.8.1 


,' 9.5 


10.45 


11.40 


ctn 


l^'cTT' 


^c' 


5.00 


40.00 


50. 10 


. 4 


.6 


.8 


. 9 


.14 


.18 


.13 


.20 


.2.') 


.25 


.40 


.50 


.88 


.60 


.75 


.63 


1.00 


1.2.5 


.88 


1.40 


175 


1.00. 


1.60 


2.00' 


1.13 


1.80 


2 25 


1.25 


2.00 


2.50 


2.50 


4.00 


5fi0 


3.75 6.00 


7.50 


5.00 


8.00 


10.00 


«.25 


10 UO 


12.50 


7.50 


12.00 


15.00 


8.75 


14.00 


17 60 


10.00 


16.00 


20.0(1 


1125 


18.00 


22.50 


12.50 


20.00 


25.00 


13.75 


■.^2.00 


! 27.50 


15.00 


24.00 


i 30.(K1 


16.25 20.00 


' 32.50 


17.50 28.00 


S,'-..0O 


18.75 30.00 


1 37,50 


20 00 31 00 


i 40.0<J 


21.2.5 34.00 


! 42.60 


22..50 1 3'i.OO 


, 4t).'>1 


23.75 


las.oo 


147.50 



IIE.VDV RECKONER. 2, 1^40 LBS. TO THE TON. 

H tlio No. requirea 'o ^^^ ,,, ^^^ \_at>\c!^, odd the amounts of two nambere 

togothor 



11- r < 



H 

y 

o 
ci 



a 

a 

A 



n 

U 

P 
u 
Pi 

■h 
O 

U 

<u 

g 



, , V c/.f vtH 4 ct V.rt '^ (t * tV S* ct $) cts S rts ff. cts $ c/.s|S c^v § ct8 


LbH, o- 


.50 


l.(i( 


^2. on ;j (i(> 


5.00 6 On 

1 


7.0) 1 S (.H», 9.00 10. 00. 11. Ou 


,12.00 


20 .. 






. 2 


.3 


. 4 


. 6 


. 6 


. 7 


.81 .9 


.10 


.11 


2iV .. 


" 


. i 


. 2 


. 3 


. 6 


. 7 


. 8 


. 9 


.10 


.11 


.12 


.13 


•H .. 




. 1 


. 3 


. 4 


. 7 


. 8 


. 9 


.11 


.12 


.13 


.15 


.16 


50. .. 


. i 


. 2 


. 4 


. 6 


.11 


.13 


.16 


.18 


.20 


.22 


.25 


.27 


70 .. 


. 2 


. 3 


• ^ 


. 9 


.15 


.Id 


.22 


.25 


.28 


.31 


.34 


.37 


80 . . 


. 2 


. 4 


. 7 


.11 


.18 


.21 


.26 


.29 


.32 


.36 


.39 


.43 


90, .. 


. 2 


. 4 


. 8 


.12 


.20 


.24 


.28 


.32 


.36 


.40 


.44 


.48 


10'' . 1 


. 2 


. 4 


. 9 


.13 


.22 


.27 


.31 


.36 


.40 


.45 


.49 


.54 


m . 2 


. 4 


. 9 


.18 


.27 


.46 


.64 


.63 


.71 


.^•O 


.89 


.9,8 


1.07 


:w'i . 4 


. 7 


.18 


.27 


.40 


.67 


.80 


.94 


1.07 


1.21' 1.34 


1.47 


1.61 


4(.io! . 4 i . 9 


.18 


.36 


.54 


.89 1.07 


1.26 


1.43 


1.61 


1.79 


1.96 


2.14 


500 6 .11 


.22 


.45 


.67 1.12 1.34 


1.56 


1.79 


2.01 


2 231 2.46 


2.68 


i t;uo.j .7 .13 


.27 


.54 .80 1 34 


1.61 


1,88 2.14 2.41 


2.681 2.95 


3.21 


7iO 


. 8 .16 


.31 


.63 .94 1.56 


1.87 


2 19 2.60! 2.81 3.12' 3 44; 3.76 


SdU 


. y 


.18 


.36 


.71 1.07' 1.79 


2.14 


2.50 2.86, 3.21 


3.57 


3.93 4.29 


Oiid 


ID 


.20 


.40 


.80 1.21,2.01 


-'.41 


2.81 3.21 : 8.62 


4.02 


4.42 


4.82 


looo' 


.11 


.22 


.45 


.89 1.34 


2.23 


2.68 


313 3.571 4.02 


4.46 


4.91 


5.-36 


ilOOj 


.12 


.26 


.49 


.98 1.47 


2.4u 


2.95 


3.44 


3 931 4.42! 4.91 


6.40 


6.89 


12(iO 


.13 


.27 


.54 


1.07 1.611 


2.tW! 


3.21 


3.75 


4.29, 4.821 5.30 


6.89 


6.43 


i;5oi) 


.14 


.29 


.58 


1.16 


1.74 


2.90 


3.48 


4.06 


4.(>i 5.22 


5.80 


6.3.S 


6.96 


14U0 


.16 


.31 


.62 


1.26 


1.87! 


3.12 


3.75 


4.38 


5.(Ki 5.62 


25 


6.87 


7.60 


laOO 


.17 


.33 


.67 


1.34 


2.01' 


3.K5! 


4.02 


4.69 


5.36 6.03 


6.70 


7.37 


8.04 


IGOd 


.18 


.36 


.71 


1.43 


2.14 


3.57! 


4.28 


5.0) 


5.71 6.43 7.14 


7.^6 


8 67 


17 


.19 


.38 


.76 


1.52 


2.28: 


3.79 


4.56 


5.31 


6.07 6.831 7.59 


8.a5 


ft.U 


1800 


.20 


.40 


.80 


1.61 


2.41| 


4.02 


4.82 


5.63 


6.43 7.23i 8.04 


8.84 


9.64 


1900 


.21 


42 


.85 


1.70 


2.54! 


4.24 


5.09 


6.94 


6.78 7.63' 8.48 


9.33| 


10.18 


21(00 


•» 


.45 


.89 


1.78 


2.68i 


4.46 


.'..36 


6.25 7.14! 8.03^ 8.93| 


9 82 


10.71 


2100 


:2s! 


.47 


.94 


187 


2.811 


4.69 


5.62 


6.56 


7.50i 


8.44 


9.37 


10 ;n 


11.25 




.21 
.27 

.n 

.64 
.75 

.86 
.96 
1.07 
2.14 
3.21 
4.2 

5.as 

6.43 
7.50 
8.67 
9.64 
10.71 
11.79 
12.86 
13.93 
16.00 
16.07 
17.14 
18.21 
19 29 
20..36 
21.43 
22.50 



I I 
i ' ' 

! : i ; ' 11 

I'i 'I 



'1. 



i 



k 




RE.VnY RECKONER, 2,240 LBS. TO THE TON. 

If the luticlo cost S12 60 per ton. odd the iiinount« under S12 Wand nOcta. 

toirt'tluT. 



hi! ' 







20 (H 


27 00 


29 IKI 


;io 00 


31 00 


33 (M 


34 Oo 


3j') (10 


30 1)0 




2»' 


.I'l 


.2;} 


.24 ] •.2(i 


.27 


.28 


.29 


30 


31 


32 


25 


!2H 


.20 


.30 ! .32 


.33 


.35 


.37 


.38 


.39 


.41 


T 


;ii> 


.33 


.35 


36 .39 


.40 


.41 


.44 


.4(i 


47 


.48 


a 


f>0 


.5') 


.58 


.60 


.05 


.67 


.69 


.74 


.7(5 


,78 


80 


o 
H 


70 


.78 


.81 


.84 


.91 


.94 


.97 


1.03 


100 


1 m 


112 


a> 


Hu 


.80 


.93 


.90 


1.04 


1.07 


1.11 


1 IS 


121 


1 25 


129 


5 


•J.) 


1.00 


1.04 


108 


l.l'l 


1.21 


1 25 


1..33 


l..'i7 


141 


1.4r) 


o 


10(1 


1.12 


l.lii 


121 


1.29 


l.M 


1.38 


147 


1.52 


1 .5(i 


Kil 


*j 


200 


2 2.3 


2 32 


2 41 


2.59 


2 (18 


2.77 


2,94 


3 04 


3 12 


3 21 




;j'»o 


3 %■> 


3 4S 


3.(;2 


3.S8 


4.(i2 


4 15 


441 


4.55 


4,09 


4 82 





4uO 


4.4rt 


4 04 


4.82 


5.18 


5.30 


6..54 


5.89 


0.07 


6 25 


43 


P 
o 


&I10 


5.5H 


5.80 


C.03 


47 


6 70 


6.92 


7..37 


7 59 


7 SI 


8(14 


f^ 


roi) 


0.70 


0.90 


7.23 


1 . 11 


8.04 


8.30 


8.S4 


9 11 


9;}K 


9 (54 


S 


?I0 


7 81 


8.12 


8.41 


9. on 


9..37 


9.(19 


10 31 


10.02 


I'.Ol 


1126 


C4 


8()0 


s.uy 


9 29 


9.04 


10 .31 


10.71 


11.07 


11,79 


12.14 


12.50 


12 86 


c<r 


yiH) 


MU4 


10.45 


10.85 


1 1 .05 


12.05 


12.40 


13.2(5 


l:',.(;o 


14.00 


14.4G 


>M 


lODOi 


11. k; 


11 01 


12.05 


12.95 


13..39 


13.84 


1473 


15 18 


15,03 


10 07 


o 


11. lO 


12.28 


12 77 


13.20 


14.24 


14.73 


15.22 


10.21 


10 70 


17 19 


17 68 


■♦J 


12>I0' 


13.30 


13 93 


14.40 


15..54 


10.07 


10.01 


17 OS 


18 21 


IS. 75 


19 29 


^ 

^n 


i;j(jo; 


14.51 


15.09 


15.07 


10. S3 


17.41 


17.99 


19.15 


19 73 


2 ".31 


20.K9 


1400 


15.02 


l(i.25 


10.87 


1^.12 


18.75 


19.37 


20.ti2 


21 25 


21.88 


22.50 


^ 


1500' 


rr5 74 


17.41 


lS.(i8 


19.42 


20.09 


20.76 


22 10 


22 77 


23 44 


2411 


^ 


lljOi'JlTHO 


18.57 


19 28 


20.71 


21.43 


22.14 


23.57 


24 28 


25.00 


26 71 


03 


JTOO! IS V(7 


19.73 


20 49 


22.00 


22.77 


23 53 


25()l 


26. W 


2t) 50 


27.3 J 


S 


18iK)l2(l.(«t 


20.89 


21.70 


23..30 


24.11 


24.91 


26..52 


27 32 


2,S.13 


28 93 


X) 

g 


19001 21 20 
2000^ 22.32 
2100l 23.44 


22.05 


22.90 


24.t)0 


25.44 


20 29 


27,99 


28,84 


29.09 


30.53 


23.21 


24.10 


2.5.89 


%78 


27.67 


29 40 


■3(),.3G 


31 25 


.32 14 


o 


24 37 


25.31 


27.19 


-.48.12 


29.00 


30 93 


31,87 32 81 


3375 


<<-i 


^^^■\3; 00 

20 .33 


^ fY.t 


'V"/.f' 


.4 ci» , ,* r^s * c•^s 


S?r^s S vts 


S I'ts *: ,Vs 


o 

o 


a;,t 00 


40 00 


41 00 


43 00 44 00 


45 00 


60 00 
45 


55 00 


CJ OO 




.35 


36 


,37 


.38 


.39 


.40 


49 


54 


25 41 


.44 


,45 


.40 


48 


.J9 


.60 


56 


61 


67 


s 


31 )■ .50 


.62 


64 


55 


67 


.5! 


00 


67 


74 


80 


t»» 


50 


83 


87 


.89 


.92 


.90 


.90 


1 00 


1 12 


1 23 


1.34 


g 


70 


l.lt) 


1.21 


125 


1.28 


134 


137 


1.41 


1 56 


1 72 


187 


OS 


80 


1.32 
149 


1.39 


1.43 


1.40 


151 


1.57 


161 


179 


1 9i) 


2.14 


t5 


90, 


167 


1.01 


1.05 


1.73 


177 


1.81 


2 01 


2 21 


241 


03 


KiO 


105 


174 


1.79 


1.83 


192 


19(i 


201 


2.23 


2 40 


2 68 




200 


3 30 


3 48 


357 


3 00 


3 84 


3 93 


4 02 


4.40 


4,91 


538 


1-4 

04 


30 ii 


4.00 


5.22 


5 36 


5.49 


6.70 


6.89 


6 03 


670 


7 37 


8 04 


O 


400 


6 01 


90 


7 14 


7 32 


7.68 


7 80 


8 04 


8 93 


9 82 


10.71 


.4 


500* 


8 20 


8.71 


8.93 


9 15 


9.60 


982 


10.04 


11 10 


12 28 


13.39 


tS 


6O0 


•J 01 


10.45 


10.71 


10.98 


11.52 


11.79 


12.06 


13 39 


14 73 


l(i07 


1 


700 


11 56 


12.19 


12.50 


12 81 


13.44 


1-176 


14.00 


15 62 


17 19 


IS 75 


tH 


8W) 


13.21 


13.93 


14,29 


1461 


16.30 


16 71 


10.07 


17,80 


19.64 


21.43 


S 


900 


14 87 


15.07 


10 07 


10 47 


17 28 


17 08 


18 08 


20 09 


22 10 


24.11 


a 


1000 


10.52 


17.41 


17 86 


18.30 


19.20 


19 04 


20.09 


22.32 


24 65 


20.79 


1100 


18.17 


19 15 


191)4 


20 13 


21.12 


21 01 


22.10 


24 (55 


27 01 


2946 




12*X1 


10 82 


20.89 


2143 


21.90 


23 04 


23 57 


24 11 


20 79 


29.46 


3214 


o 


1310^ 


21.47 


22 t,3 


23.21 


23 79 


24.96 


2.5 53 


2t) 12 


29 02 


31 92 


34 82 


^ 


14' ;0' 


23.12 


24 37 


25 (H> 


25 62 


20 87 


27 50 


28 12 


31 25 


34 37 


37.50 


S 


1500' 


24 78 


20 12 


20 79 


27.45 


28 79 


29.46 


30 13 


%\ IS 


30 83 


40 1« 


l'3i10 


2') 43 


27 80 


28.57 


29.28 


30 71 


31.43 


.32 14 


35.71 


39 2S 


42.89 


llm 


28.(18 


2:) ()0 


30.30 


31.12 


32.63 


33.39 


34 15 


3:95 


4174 


45.5:5 


IHO*) 


29.73 


31 34 


32 14 


32.95 


34.55 


35 30 


30 10 


40 18 


44 20 


48 21 


lUOO^Sl.-'iS 


33.(18 


•3:» 93 


.34.78 


.30.47 


37.32 


;;8 17 


42 41 


4!) 05 


50.89 


M 


2»{)oUvny.i 


34.82 


35.71 


.30 01 


38.,39 


39.2S 


4') 18 


44. m 


49 11 


53 57 


*i, 


2100J 


31.08 


30.56 


37.60 


3S.44 


40,31 


41.26 


4219 


46,87 


5156 


50 25 



S TON. 

12 W and CO eta. 




;i') 


31 


82 


.')■; 


.3'.t 


.41 


4'i 


47 


.4H 


71; 


.7K 


80 


(m; 


1 m 


112 


21 


1 2r. 


129 


;J7 


141 


I4f) 


r.2 


1 r.ti 


Itil 


14 


3 12 


321 


r,» 


l.ti',) 


4P2 


('7 


rt 2r. 


fi43 


f.y 


7 SI 


8(14 


11 


IKIM 


fMH 


.C'i 


I'.'Ji 


1125 


.14 


12.00 


12 86 


.<;<) 


14.(1(5 


14.4G 


18 


ir>.fi3 


10 07 


7ti 


17 11) 


17 (W 


21 


IS. 7,') 


19 29 


73 


2 '.31 


2(1 K9 


•-'5 


21.88 


'^im 


1 1 


23 44 


24 11 


•J.S 


2'>.W 


2f)71 


.HO 


2(i 5fi 


27.3i 


32 


2S.13 


28 93 


..84 


2'.l.ti'J 


3i.).':i 


.30 


31 '>r> 


3'-' 14 


Ml 


32 HI 


33 7i) 



rfs 


X~ 


■if (Is 


) 00 


55 00 


05 00 


45 


49 


64 


oG 


61 


67 


(57 


74 


80 


12 


123 


1.34 


I m 


1 72 


187 


,7!) 


1 9(5 


2.14 


J 01 


'2 21 


241 


J.23 


2 4t) 


2(58 


i.4(5 


4.91 


5 36 


3.70 


7 37 


8 04 


3 93 


9 82 


1071 


1(5 


12 28 


13.39 


3 3y 


1473 


lti07 


■) (52 


17 19 


IS 75 


•.8(5 


19.C4 


21.43 


)(»9 


22 1(1 


24.11 


2.32 


24 55 


2(5.79 


iJ>r> 


27 01 


29 4G 


5 79 


29.40 


3214 


J 1)2 


31 92 


34 82 


12a 


34 37 


37 50 


J 48 


80 h3 


40 IH 


-.71 


39 2-i 


42.83 


r 'J") 


4174 


45.^ 


) IS 


44 20 


48 21 


Ml 


4!5 fi;') 


f,0,89 


t.(i4 


40 1 1 


53 57 


J. 87 


ol 5(5 


5C25 



READY RECKONEE. 



READV RECKONER, to flrtd the Price of any Number of Poundi. Yardi, 

rioco.t, or BuHlielH, from 2 cents to 88.00. 
Tlio fir* roliimn contaius tiip NL'iir.EK, tlio top columns the PRICES. 



h.!. 


2cl. 


_ 




2 


. 4 


3 


. « 


4 


. 8 


f> 


.10 


« 


.12 


7 


.14 


H 


.10 


9 


.18 


10 


.'J) 



11 

12 

« 

15 

16 
J7 
18 
19 

20 
25 
30 
40 
60 
60 
70 
8.> 
W 



.22 

24 

.20 

28 

,30 

32 

.34 

.30 

38 

.40 

60 

.60 

.80 

ICO 

1.20 

1.40 

160 

1.80 

2 CO.. 



yet. 

. 9 
.12 

.15 
,18 
.21 
.24 
.27 
.30 

as 

.36 
.39 
.42 
45 
48 
51 
54 
.57 
.60 
.76 
.90 
120 
160 

1 80 
2.10 
2.40 

2 70 
8(0 



2 

i> 

4 

ii 

ti 
7 
8 

10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
lb 
10 
1; 
18 
19 
20 
2r, 
•6) 
40 
60 
60 
70 
80 
90 



.24 
,36 

.48 

.60 

72 

84 

90 

1.08 

1.20 

132 

1.44 

156 

1.08 

1.80 

1.92 

2.(4 

2.16 

2.28 

2.40 

3.00 

3.60 

4.8(j 

COO 

7.20 

8.40 

9.00 

10.60 



100 112.00 



T5T^ 



4ct. 

. 8 

.12 

.16 

.20 

.24 

.28 

.82 

.36 

.40 

44 

.48 

.52 

.50 

.60 

.04 

.68 

.72 

70 

.80 

1 00 

1.20 

1.60 

2.00 

240 

2.80 

8.20 

8.60 

4.fK) 



6ct. 



.25 
.87J 
.50 
.62J 
.76i 
.87i 
l.(W 
1 12i 
1.26 
l.37i 
1.60 
I 62i 
1.75 
1.87i 
2.00 
2.12} 
2i;6 
2.87i 
2.50 
b.l2« 
8.75 
5.00 
0.26 
7.50 
8.76 
10.00 
11.25 
12.60 



TScT 

.26 

.89 

.62 

.65 

.78 

.91 

1.(4 

1.17 

130 

143 

156 

1.69 

1.82 

1 96 

2.08 

2.21 

234 

247 

2.60 

3.25 

3.90 

6.20 

6.50 

7.80 

9.10 

10.40 

11.70 

13.00 



.10 

.15 

.20 

.26 

80 

.86 

.40 

.46 

.60 

.56 

.60 

.65 

.70 

.76 

.80 

.85 

.90 

.96 

1.00 

125 

150 

2.00 

2 50 
3.00 

3 60 
4.00 
4.50 
6j^ 



6ct. 



.12 

.18 

.24 

.30 

.30 

.42 

.48 

.54 

.(50 

.60 

.72 

.78 

.84 

.90 

.96 

1.02 

1.08 

1.14 

1.20 

1.60 

1.80 

2.40 

3:00 

3.60 

4.20 

4.80 

5.40 

6.00 



Oict. 



l4ct.i 15ct. 



T? 



.12 

.18 
.26 
.81* 
.87 
.481 
.60 
.66^ 
.62* 
.683 
.75 
Mi 
.87} 
.931 
1.00 
l.OOi 
1 12} 
1.18| 
1.25 
1.564 
1.87} 
2.5(» 
8.12i 
8.76 
4. 37 J 
600 
5.62i 
6.25 



7ct. 



.28 

.42 

.66 

.70 

,84 

.98 

1.12 

1.26 

1.40 

1.54 

1.68 

1.82 

1.96 

2.10 

2.24 

2.38 

2.52 

2.- 6 

2 80 

3.50 

'4.20 

5.60 

7.00 

8.40 

9.80 

11.20 

12.60 

14.00 



.30 

.46 

.60 

.76 

.90 

1.05 

1.20 

1.36 

1.50 

1.05 

1.80 

1.95 

2.10 

2.25 

2.40 

2.55 

2.70 

2.86 

3.00 

•i.76 

4.5 

6.00 

7.60 

9.00 

10.50 

12.00 

13.50 

15.00 



TOct. 



.32 

.48 

.04 

.80 

.96 

1.12 

1.28 

1.44 

1.60 

1.76 

1.92 

90S 

2.24 

2.40 

2.56 

2.72 

2.H8 

•3.04 

3.20 

4.00 

4.80 

6.40 

8.00 

9.00 

11.20 

12.80 

14.40 

16.00 



.14 
.21 

.28 

.86 

,42 

.49 

66 

,68 

,70 

.77 

.84 

,91 

.98 

1.06 

112 

1.19 

1.26 

1.33 

1,40 

1.76 

2.10 

2.80 

3.50 

4.20 

4.90 

6.60 

630 

7.00 

Isct. 



8ct. 


9ct. 


10 ot. 


.16 


.18 


.20 


.24 


.27 


.80 


.32 


.86 


.40 


.40 


.45 


.60 


.48 


.64 


.60 


.66 


,63 


.70 


.64 


.72 


.80 


.72 


.81 


.90 


.80 


.90 


1.00 


.88 


.99 


1.10 


.96 


1.(8 


120 


104 


117 


180 


112 


1.26 


1.40 


1.20 


1.86 


1,60 


1.28 


1.44 


1.60 


1.30 


1,63 


1.70 


144 


1.62 


1.80 


1.52 


1.71 


1.90 


1.60 


1.80 


200 


2.00 


2.26 


260 


2.40 


2.70 


800 


8 20 


3.60 


4.00 


400 


460 


5.00 


4.80 


6.40 


6.00 


5.60 


6.30 


7.00 


640 


7.20 


8.00 


7.20 


8.1c 


9.00 


8.00 


9.00 


10.00 



Hot. 
.22 

.83 
.44 

.66 

.66 

.77 

.88 

.99 

1.10 

121 

182 

1.43 

164 

166 

1.76 

1.87 

1.98 

2.0» 

2.20 

2.76 

380 

4.40 

6.60 

6.60 

7.70 

8.80 

9.90 

11.00 




rl' 



'■»? 



READY RECKONER. 



The first column on tho loft contains the NUMBER of the Article, and the 
coluiim on the tops of the Tables, tho PRICE. 



KoJ 


22^t: 

.44 


;23ct. 

i .46 


24 ct. 


25 ct. 


26 ct. 


27 ct. 


'28 ct. 
.56 


29 ct; 


30 ct. 


31 ct. 


31[Vi. 


2 


;~^ 


.50 


.52 


.54 


.58 


.60 


.<;2 


m 

l.'2o 


3 


M 


; .69 




.75 


.78 


.81 


.84 


.87 


M 


.93 


4 


.88 


i .92 


t .90 


1.00 


1.04 


l.f)8 


1 12 


1.16 


1.20 


1.24 


f> 


1.10 


j 1.15 


' 1.20 


1.25 


1 .30 


I..35 


1.40 


145 


1.50 


1.55 


150 





1.32 


i 1.38 


1.44 


1.50 


1..56 


1.62 


1.68 


1.74 


1.80 


1.S6 


1.87 


7 


1.54 


' 1.61 


' 1.68 


1.75 


1.S2 


1.89 


1.96 


2.fJ3 


2.10 


2.17 


2.W 


R 


17(5 


: 1.84 


192 


2.00 


2.08 


2.16 


2.24 


2..32 


2.40 


2.4s 


2 50 


9 


1.98 


2.07 


2.16 


2.25 


2 34 


2.43 


2..52 


2.61 


2 70 


2.79 


2 Hi 


10 


2.20 


2 30 


2.40, 


2JjO 


2.60 


2 70 


2.80 


2.90 


3.00 


3. 10 


3 12 


11 


2.42 


2.53 


2.64! 


2 75 


2.86 


2.97 


3,08 


3 19 


3.:30 


3.41 


3 43 


12 


2 64 


2.76 


2 881 


3.00 


3.12 


:i 94 


3 36 


3.48 


3.60 


3.72 


3.7.5 


13 


2. 86 


2.99 


3 12 


3.25 


So6 


3.51 


3 64 


3.77 


3.90 


4.03 


4.'iil 


14 


3.08 


3.22 


3;i8! 


3..50 


364 


3.78 


3,92 


4.06 


4.20 


4..34 


4.87 , 


l.-j 


3.30 


3^45 


3.t-0' 


3.75 


3.90 


4.05 


4.20 


4.35 


4.50 


4,.05 


' 4fjsf 


16 


3.52 


3.68 


384' 


4.00 


4.16 


4. .32 


448 


4.64 


4.80 


4,96 


5.(.o' 


17 


».74 


391 


4 08: 


4,25 


4.42 


4.59 


4.76 


4.i»3 


5.10 


5,27 


5.t;2 
6.25 


IS 


3.96 


4 14 


4 32 


4 50 


4.68 


4.86 


5.04 


6.22 


5.40 


5,58 


1!> 


4 18 


4.37 


4,56! 


4 75 


4.94 


6.13 


5,32 


5.51 


6 70 


5 89 


20 


4.40 


4.60 


4 80^ 


5.00 


5 20 


5.40 


5.60 


5.80 


6.00 


6.2f) 


25 


6..50 


5.75 


6.00 


6.25 


6.50 


6.75 


7.00 


7 25 


7.25 


775 


9.-37J 
12.51) 


3v^ 


6.60 


6 90 


7,20i 


7.50 


7.80 


8.10 


8.40 


8.70 


9 00 


9.;!0 


40 


8.80 


9.20 


9.601 


10.00 


10.40 


10.80 


11.2') 


11.60 


12.00 


12.40 


60 


11. OO 


11.50 


12.00' 


12.50 


13.00 


13..'-)0 


14.00 


14.50 


15.00 


15.50 


15.1:2.1 
ls.75 


m 


1820 


13.80 


14.40 


15.00 


15.(M) 


16.20 


16, W) 


17.40 


IH.OO 


is.oo 


70 


15.40 


16.10 


16 80' 


17.50 


18.20 


18 90 


19.60 


20,,30 


21.00 


21,70 


21.S7.1 


80 


17.60 


18 40 


19.'_'0' 


20.00 


20.80 


21.60 


22,40 


23.20 


24.00 


24.S0 


25.1 HI 


90 


19.80 


20,70 


21. 6M. 


22.50 


23 4'» 


24.30 


25 20 


26.10 


27.00 


27.!K» 


2^.121 


1(K) 


22.00 


2?. 00 


24.00 'i5.(>0 


26.00 


27.00 


2'<,oo 


29.00 


30.00 


31 00 


31. -^^ 


Tsos 




.66 


^ct. 
,66-^ 


.4ct 
.65 


i| .70 


ITTT 


'Sfct!' 
.74 


S?ict. 


.3.8 ct. 


Vet" 


40ct. 


2 


.72 


.75 


.76 


.78 


.80 


3 


.96 


.99 


1 (H) 


l.OC 


! 1.05 


lOK 


1.11 


l,12i 


1.14 


1.17 


120 


4 


128 


Icl 


],.T3i 


' 1.3f 


' 1 40 


144 


1.48 


1 .50 


1.52 


1,56 


leo 


6 


1.60 


IK, 


1.66^ 


1.7f 


1.75 


l.HO 


185 


1.87.i 


190 


1,95 


2.(l0 


6 


1.92 


1.9-! 


2 00 


: 2.04 


2.10 


2,16 


2 22 


2.2.5 


2.28 


2 34 


2.40 


< 


2 24 


2.31 


2,;«i 


i 2.3e 


2.45 


2 52 


2,59 


2.62,J 


2.66 


2 73 


2 80 


fi 


2,56 


2 64 


2,6ti.1 


I 2 72 


1 2.80 


2!m8 


2.9() 


300 


3.04 


3,12 


320 


9 


2.88 


2.97 


3(K) 


1 30t] 


3.15 


3 24 


3,.33 


3.37i 


3.42 


3 51 


•.i.m 


10 


3 20 


330 


3.;«i 


3.40 


3.50 


3.^,0 


3.70 


3 75 


3.80 


3 90 


4.00 


11 


3.52 


3.<>3 


3.66j 


3. -4 


3.85 


3 9) 


4.ft7 


4.12.i 


4.18 


4.29 


4.40 


12 


3 84 


3 96 


4.00' 


i 4.08 


4.20 


4.32 


4.44 


4.50 


4.-56 


4 68 


4 80 


13 


4.J6 


4 29 


4.;:,'^' 4.42 


4. .55 


4.68 


4 SI 


4.87.} 


4.94 


6,07 


5 20 


14 


4 48 


4.62 


4 ix)*' 4.76 


4.!)0 


5.04 


5,18 


5.25 


5.. 32 


5.4I) 


ii.iK) 


15 


4 80 


4 95 


5.(H> i 6 10 


5,25 


5.40 


5.55 


6.62,i 


5.70 


6 85 


6 K) 


16 


5 12 


5.28 


5;^iV 5.44 


560 


5 76 


5.92 


6,00 


6.08 


6.24 


6.40 


17 


5 44 


5.61: 


5.6';;^ 


578 


6 96: 


6.12 


6 29 


6,37,i 


6.46 


6.63 


6 80 


:3 


5 76 


5.94 


6.00' 


6.12 


! 6.30' 


6.48 


6,t)6 


6,75 


6 84 


7'»2 


7 20 


19 


6 08 


6 27 


(;;53Ji 


6 46 


' 6.»»l 


6.84 


7 03 


7.12i 


7.22 


T.Jl 


((») 


20 


6.40| 


6.60 


0.6.;.-; 


6.80 


1 7 00i 


1 .20 


7,4) 


7.50 


7.60 


7 SO 


8 00 


25 


8.00 


8 25 


H33| 


8.50 


1 8.75; 


y CO 


9.25 


9.,37i 


9.50 


9 75 


lolH) 


3'i 


9 60 


9 90 


10 0(1 , i().2f 


. 10 50' 


10, SO 


11.10 i 


11.25 


1140 


11 70 


121K) 


40 


12.80 


I.'i.20 


13 -iHS 13.60 


14.00' 


14.40 


14.S0 


15.00 


15.20 


15 m 


I'i 00 


50 Hi. Of! 


16 50 


16.66,: l.VdO 


17.50 


18.00 


IS. 50 


l"i.75 


19.00 


19,50 


20.00 


60 19.20 


I't 80 


2M)o'!;>o.40 


'2i.O0, 


21 60 i 


22.20 


22.50 


22.80 


23.40 


21(K) 


7« ',^2 40 


23.10 


23 .'{:ji 23.80 
>']<\''J 'J7.20 


24.5ft 


25.20 : 


25.90 


26.25 


20.60 


27.3i> 


2'<.00 


m 25.(;f> 


2';.l'i 


28.(yi 


2S.80 


29 60 


3').f)0 


3040 


31.20 


32.no 


90 S2H.H0 


29.,0 


.JO.nii' 30.60 


31. .50 


32,40 


33.30 


3.3.75 


31.20 


3.5.10 


3i.00 


100 1 


<?,ool 


33.(W 


.i'3.:j:j', 


31.00 


30 00' 


36.00 


iil:A) ' 


37,50 


3.8.00 


39,00 1 


40.00 



6 



Article, and the 



It. 

10 
W 
Hi) 
JO 

^) 

10 

40 
70 
DO 
:iO 
00 
'JO 
20 
50 
80 
10 
40 
70 

no 

,2.') 

00 
.00 

.110 
.00 

.00 

.00 
.no 
.00 



31 (;t. 3irci 



READY RECKON RR. 



.(;2 ! 

l.'il ' 
i.r.o 1 

\M \ 
2.17 ; 
2.4H I 
2.7'.» ' 
3.10 
3.41 I 
3.72 
4.II0 
4.34 
4.5,-) ! 
4.iM) ! 
6.27 , 
b.M ; 
f) H'J 
6.20 I 
7.75 ■ 
9.30 
12.40 

in.no 

IH.CO 
21.70 
24. SO 
27.;k> 
31 00 



,371 



ct. ,2\)ct. 



.1. 



70 
14 

.52 
'JO 
.28 
.60 
.04 
.42 
.80 
.18 
.56 
.'J4 
.32 
.70 
i.OS 
40 
f 84 
.22 
.00 
.50 
. 40 
).2o 
• 00 
J. HO 

;oo 
> 40 
1.20 
1.00 



.1.2 
.9.3' 

1.25 

l.f)fil 

1.87] 

2.m 

250' 

2 8J 
3.r2' 

3 43 
37r> 
4. Ml 
4.3 
4G' 
5.M) 
531i 

5.t;2v 

5'.« 
0.25 
7HU 
'.t.37.i 
12.51) 
l.Vt!2.J 
1M.T5 
21.S7.I 
25.1 HI 
2^.121 
31.25 

locT 



.78 
1.17 
1.50 
1.9') 

2 34 
2.73 

3 12 
3 51 
31") 
4.29 
4(i8 
6.07 
f).40 

6 85 
b.24 
B.tW 
7.02 
7.4I 

7 80 
9 76 1 

11 70 ' 
16 00 : 
19.60 ■ 
23.40 I 
27 30 ! 
31.20 
36.10 1 
39.00 i 



.81) 
120 

1 m 

2.00 

2.40 

2 80 
3.20 

3t;o 

4.00 
4.4f> 

4 80 

5 20 
5.00 
6'K) 
O.IO 

6 8") 

7 20 

7 fiO 

8 00 
loiH) 
12 IK> 
liiiK) 
2' '.00 
21.IH) 
'J^OO 

■A'lm 
3 ..00 

40.00 



Tiie first column on the left contains the N U:\IBER of <hp Article, and thp 
column on tlio tops of the Tabica. the PRICE. 



^^4101. 42ct.,13ct. 44ct. 4oct 46ct. 47 ct. 48ct.|49ct. 60ct. iSlct 



.84 
1.26 
108 
2.10 
2.52 
2.94 
3.36 

3 78 

4 20 
4.()2 
6.04 
6 46 
6.88 
6.30 
6.72 
7.14 
7.66 
7'J8 
8.40 

10.50 

12.60 

, i;.8'» 

: 21.001 

■ 26 .20! 

29.40 

33.60 

37 81 

4'.^oo 



.30 
1.29 
1.72 
2.15 
2 68 
3.01 
344 
3.87 
430 
4 73 
6 10 
6.59 
6.02 
6.46 

6 81 

7 31 
7 74 
8.17 
8.00 

10.75 
12.90 
17.20 
21 60 
26.80 
30.10 
34.40 
38.70 
43.00 



.90 
1.36 
1.80 
2.25 
2.70 
3.15 
3G) 
4.05 
4.60 
4,96 
6 40 
685 
6.30 
6.75 
7.20 
7.65 
8.10 
8.5.i 

y.oo 

11.25 
13.60 
18 00 
22.50 
27.00 
31.6) 
30.00 
40.50 
45.0 I 



o-ci. i)oci.|54ct. 



104 

1.6'i 
2.' -8 
2.t".0 

3 12 
3tU 

4 lOJ 
4.081 
620; 
5.721 
6.24: 
0.7'! 

7 2s; 

7.K0| 

8.32; 

8.84i 

9.30| 

9 88 

10.40 

13 00 

15 60, 

20.80) 

26 00' 

31.20 

3').40 

41 Ot) 

4eH0i 

52.110 



1.06 
1.69 
2.12 
2.65 

3 18 
3,71 

4 24 
4.77 

6 30 
5.83 
6.3( 
6.89 

7 42 
7.95 
8.48 
9.01 
9,54 

10.07! 
10.601 
13.25: 
16.90' 
21.101 
26.601 
31.80! 
37. 10' 
4:<,4'> 
47. TO] 
53 00 



1.08 

1.62 

2.16 

2.70 

3.24 

3.78 

4.32 

4,86 

5.40 

6.94 

0.4S 

7.02 

7 6<. 

8.10 

S.t>4 

9.18 

U72 

10.26 

10.80 

13.50 

16.20 

21.60 

27.00 

32.40 

37.80 

4ii.20 

48.t(0i 

Moo: 



ict. 



1,12 

1.68 
2.24 

2.80 
3.36 
3.92 

4.48 
6.04 
6.00 
6.16 
672 
7.28 
7 84 
8.40 
8.96 
9.62 
10.08 

10 r4 

11 2J 

14.00 
16.80 
22.40 

28 .(X) 

;w 00 

39.20 
44 80 
60.40 
.)t-i oO 



.92 
13S 
184 

2.30 
2.76 
3 22 

3.68 
4.14 

4.00 

f^()6 

5.62 

5.98 

644 

6.'J0 

7.30 

7.82 

8.28 

8.74 

9.2) 

11.60 

13 80 

18.40 

23.00 

27.0) 

32.20 

30 80 

41.40 

46.00 

STcT 



7 ' "5 



1.14 

1.71 

2.28 

2.86 

5.42 

3.99 

4.56 

6.13 

6.70 

6.27 

6 84 

741 

7.'J8 

8.56 

9.12 

9.69 

10.26 

10.83 

11 40 

14.25 

IV 10 

22.80 

28 50 

i 34.2.) 

; 30 90 

45.00 

Ui.m 

I o7.oO 



1.16 
1.74 
2.32 
2,90 
3.43 
4.(H5 
4.64 
5.22 
6.80 
6 38 

6 96 

7 54 
8.12 
8.70 
9.28 
9.86 

10.44 
11.02 
11.60 
14.60 
174'» 
23.20 
29.00 
34.80 
40 60 
40 40 
b-i.JO 
. i8 'JO 



.96 
1.44 

192 
2.40 
2.88 
3 36 
3 81 
4.32 
4.80 
5,28 
6 76 

6 24 
6.72 

7 20 
7 68 
8.16 
8.64 
9 12 
9.60 

12.00 
14.40 
19 20 
24.00 
28 80 
33.00 
38.40 
43.20 
48.00 



1 18 
177 
2.36 
2.95 

3:4 

4.13 
4.72 
6.31 

6.90 

6.49 

7.' 8 

767 

8.26 

8 85 

9.44 

10.03 

10 62 

11.21 

11.80 

14 76 

17.70 

23.00 

29.60 

36 40 

41 3) 

47.20 

68.10 

59 OU 



100 

1.50 

2.00 

2.60 

300 

3.50 

4.00 

4.50 

6 00 

6.50 

600 

6 50 

7.00 

7.50 

H.OO 

850 

9 00 

960 

10 00 

12.60 

15 00 

20.00 

26.00 

30.00 

85 00 

40.00 

46.00 

60.00 

jfjctTei'cr" 



120 

1.80 

2.40 

300 

3.60 

4.20 

4.80 

6.40 

600 

660 

7.20 

7,80 

840 

9.00 

9.60 

10.20 

10.*) 

11.40 

12.00 

15.00 

1800 

24.00 

30.00 

30 00 

42.00 

48.0) 

MOO 

00 00 



1.22 

1.83 

2.44 

3.05 

3.66 

4.27 

4.88 

6.49 

6.10 

6.71 

7.32 

7.93 

864 

9.16 

9.76 

10 37 

10.98 

11,69 

12.20 

15.26 

18.30 

24.42 

30 50 

36.60 

42 70 

48 80 

MtN) 

6100 



READY RECKONER: 



If tho Number rcqutrpil l^ not fonnl in th > Tablfis, Ddrt two Nnmbprsiio. 
^t'tlicr; lir iiistimcc, if 3r> biislicls iin> rciiiiinHl, add flic jiriccs iipiwsite 
30 a. id ;') tn;;(.'ilur, and so lor 13135 baBliois— tieblo tho valun k'Hw, ami 
and tji) and 5 toKi'tlier. 



NoH»C2ict. <)i{ct (;4cl.!t 



!.f n 




READY RECKONER. 



two NumhcTsi to- 
lit' jiriccs opposite 
! valuo cl' lou, aad 



If tho Niimbor rcqi'.irod is not found in Uu> Tablos, add two Numbors to- 

^•-1. ... Mo-i,.,.i — •'red, add tbo prices opuosito 

-treble tlio value of 100, aud 



p.'tluf: f'lr in-itaiiCi?, if 3.') burtlu'.r! aro required, add tbo prices opi»osito 
§0 and ij t ipettier; and 80 for 365 bushelri- 



add GO aud 5 toKi'tber. 



1^! 



iact.i 70 ct. I tloi. 



a 



10 






41.'" 

1 65.'^; I 



Nos83ct.|84ct.j85ot.| 8«c . 



87 ct. 87ict. 88 ct. i 89ct. 



2 
3 
4 

e 

6 
7 
8 
l> 
10 
11 
U 
13 
14 
15 
Itj 
17 
in 
19 
lA) 
26 
81} 
40 
60 
60 
70 
80 
90 
100 



1 
2 

3. 
4. 
4. 
6. 
C. 
7. 
8. 
«, 
U. 
10, 

11 

12 
13 
14 
14 
li') 
10 
20 
21 

;« 

41 
4'J 
5S 
(it) 
74 



SOS . 



1.G8 

2.52 

3.3(5 

4.20 

fi.04 

5,88 

«.72 

756 

8.40 

9.24 

10.08 

lf»92i 

11.761 

12.G0i 

13.14! 

14.281 

15.12 

77 1 16.96 i 

60,16.80; 

21.00' 

25.20 

33.G(l 

42.00 

50 40 

58.80 

fi7.20 

75.(» 

S4.00 

ct 94 ct 



06 
49 
32 
16 

98 
81 
64 i 
47! 
30 1 
13, 
91) 
79 
62 
15 
28 
11 
,91 



(•■) 
90 
20 
60 
.80 
M 
4U 
70 
.110 



1.70 

2.55 

3.40 

4.25 

5.10 

5.95 

6.80 

7.(36 

8.50 

9.35 

10.20 

11.05 

11.90 

12.75 

13.G( 

14.45 

IS.oO 

16.15 

17.00 

21.25 

25.50 

34. W 

42.50 

51 00 

59.50 

68.00 

7(5.50 

85.no 



1.72 

2 28 
3.44 

430 
5.16 
6 02 
6.88 
7.74 
860 
9.4(3 
10 32 
11.18 
12.04 
12. W 
13.76 
14.62 
15.48 
16.34 
17.20 
21.50 
26.80 
34.40 
43.00 
51.(50 
60.20 
68.80 
77.40 
86.00 



1.74 
2.61 
3.48 
435 
5.22 
6.09 
6.96 
7.83 
8.70 
9.57 
10 44 
11.31 
12.18 
13.05 
13,92 
14.79 
15.(36 
16.53 
17.40 
21.75 
26.10 
34.80 
43.50 
62.2<i 
69.90 
69. ()0 
78.30 
87 00 



1.75 
2.G2i 
3.50 
4.37J 
5.2n 
6.12i 
7.00 
7.'^7J 
8.75 
9.()2J 
10.50 
11.37i 
12.25 
13.12', 
14.00' 
14.87] 
15.76 
16.('2\ 
17.50" 
21.871 
26.25' 

a6.oo 

43.7r. 
52.50 
61.25 
70.00 
78 75 
H7.5'') 



%l 



1.86 

2.79 

3.72 

4.65 

5.58 

6 51 

7.44 

8.37 

0.30 

M.2:! 

1! !•-. 

12,(.',» 

l;),()2 

l;!95 

11.88 

15,81 

.■).74 

17.67 

1S.60 

•.'.3.25 

27,9(.> 

•'!7.'J0 

4'\,-0 

.•r).so 

(I.-,, 10 

71 l') 



rnSM,7'i 

i<))r.t3,(Kt 



1.88 

2.82 

3.76 

4.70 

6.64 

6.58 

7.52 

8.46 

9.40 

1(1.3 V 

11.2s 

12.22 

13.1(5 

14.10 

15.('4 

15,98 

16 92 

17.86 

18.80 

23.50 

29.20 

37.60 

47 00 

5(5,40 

(55.80 

75.20 

81.00 

9».n() 



95 ct. 96 ct. 



1.90 

•..'85 

:',M) 

4.75 

5 70 

ti.66 

7 (iO 

8,55 

9.50 

lit. 15 

11.40 

12.J1.-, 

13 31 

1425 

15.20 

16.15 

17.10 

18.05 

1 '.(K) 

23.75 

28.50 

38.00 

47.50 

57.00 

(5'! 60 

76.00 

,K.,,r.o 
95.00 



1.92 

2.88 

3.84 

4.80 

6.76 

6.72 

7.68 

8.(54 

9 60 

1(1. 56 

1 1 .5'J 

12. IS 

13.44 

14. lit 

15.3'5 

1(5.32 

17.28 

18.24 

10.2it 

2S.8i> 
38.40 
48.(10 
57.(i!t 
(1T.2O 
7''i.sii 

M'l.l^) 



97 ct. 


1.94 


291 


3 88 


4.8.'^ 


5.82 


6.79 


7. 16 
8.73 


9 70 


10,67 


11, m4 


12 (51 


13,58 


14.55 


15.52 


16.49 


17.46 


I8.4;i 


19 40 


24. "J") 


29. n 


38.t-'!) 


4H.,5li 


5S.20 


(57.90 


7V.«'0 


^T..'5l> 


97 (Mt 



1.76 
2.(54 
3.52 
4.40 
6.28 
6.16 
7.04 
7.92 

8 80 

9 68 
10.56 
11.44 
12 32 
13.20 
14.08 
14.96 
15.84 
16.72 
17. CO 
22.00 
26.40 
3.5.20 
44. (K> 
52. 8w 
61.6) 
70.40 
79.'J0 
88.11' I 

bl'ct.' ' 

1.96 

'.94 

.92 

4.90 

588 

6.8(5 

7.84 

8.82 

9.80 

lii.78 

11.7(5 

12.74 

13.72 

14.70 

15.68 

16 (5t) 

17(54 

18 62 

19 60 
24 50 
2!».40 
30.2 I 
4\).' 
5^.'^0 
68.60 
7«.40 
f>S.20 
98, (X> 



178 

2,67 

3.56 

4,45 

6 34 

6.23 

712 

8,01 

8.SJ0 

9.79 

10.68 

11.57 

12.46 

13 35 

1.24 

15.13 

16.02 

16,91 

17.80 

22,26 

2(5.70 

Ii5.(50 

44 50 

I .'•.3.40 

i 74.20 
: so 10 
! '-9.00 

99 c r 



90 ct. I 91 9t. 



1.98 

2.97 

3.(56 

4.95 

6.94 

6.93 

7.92 

8,91 

9,90 

10.S9 

11.88 

12.87 

13,86 

14.85 

15.84 

16,83 

17.82 

18,81 

19 80 

24.75 

29 70 

39 00 

49.50 

59.40 

69.30 

7'.t.20 

tVA 10 

99. (It J 



1.80 

2.70 

3.60 

4.50 

6.40 

6.30 

7.20 

8.10 

9.00 

9.90 

10.80 

11.70 

12.00 

13.50 

14.40 

15.30 

16.20 

17.10 

18.00 

22.50 

27.00 

86.00 

46.00 

54.00 

63.00 

72.00 

81.00 

90.00 

2. 

3. 
4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18 
19. 
20. 
25. 
30. 
40. 
60. 
(50. 
70 
8(1. 
9(» 
loo 



92 Ct. 



1.82 

2.73 

3.C)4 

4.56 

5.46 

6.37 

7.28 

8.19 

9 10 

10.01 

10.92 

1183 

12 74 

13.65 

14.56 

15,47 

16.38 

17.29 

18.20 

22.75 

27.30 

36.40 

46.60 

54.60 

63.70 

72.80 

81.90 

91. (JO 



4 

0. 

8. 
10. 
12. 
14. 
16. 
18. 
20. 
22. 
24. 
26. 
28. 
31. 
32 

ai. 
;i6. 

as. 

40. 

50. 

(iO. 

80. 
100. 
120. 
142. 
Kill 
180. 
•400. 



1.84 
2.76 
3.68 
4.60 

6 62 
6.44 

7 36 
8.28 
9.20 

10.12 
11.04 
1196 
12.88 
13.80 
14.72 
15.1)4 
16.66 
17.48 
18.40 
.3.00 
27.60 
36.80 
46.00 
55.20 
64.40 
73.60 
82.80 
92 00 

!i?3. 

6. 

9, 
12. 
15. 
18. 
21. 
24. 
27. 

;50. 
33. 

3(5. 
39. 
42. 
46. 

48. 
51. 
54. 
57. 

eo. 
■75. 

90. 
120. 

150. 
180. 
210. 
210. 
270. 
3(K>. 



., .( 



" 






( 






SCANTLING REDUCED TO ONE INCH BOARD -MKASURE. 
SCAXTLING AND TIMBER MEA.-5URE 

nEl>rCKl) T ONK INCH It O A R I> MKASURK. 

EXPI.AN A riON.— T(» nsccrtiiin tlic muiilxT of Fi'ct ofSiaullinR orTim- 
lRT. s'ly IH i-i'{'t LdiiK and 2 liy .'3 liiclios l-ind '2 liy 3 in the top 
rxliniin's, nnd IS in thi' lolt huiid column, and under 2 by 3 and asaiagt 
JMsltfccl. 

11 fill- Sc.intlinij is lonpor tlian contained in Iho Tabic, add two lengthi 
toj;i'tlii'r. If shorter, tako part of some length. 



TIIKMCNKSS AND AVIDTJI IN IXCHES. 



u:i2.2|2.3 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.7 I 2.8 2.9 3.3 3.4, 3.5 3.6-3.7 3.8i3.9i44 



7 i> '•>. lo.ti 12. 
8!J lO.r. 12.3:14 
10. 12. |14. ik;. 
11.3 13G 15 918 
12.ti 15. :17.(i:20 
13.9 1»).6'19 3 22 
il5. 18 21 24 
1().3 19.6 22.9 2ti. 
17 •'' 21. !24,(;;-3. 
18.9 22.0 2(13 30 
20. 24. '28. \;i>. 
21.3 25.6 29.9';54. 
22<)27. :31.6 36 
23.9128.6 33.3 38. 



:». |3(). 35. 
2t; 3 31.6 36.9 

27 ti S3. 138 6 

28 9 34 6 40.3 

31) 36 142. 



40 
42 
44 

46 
48 



31 3 37 6 43 9 50 

,37 6 15 152.6 60. 




13 8. 
15 'J 9 4 

18. 10 r 

203'l2. 
£2 6:i34 
24S)|14B 

V. |16. 
29.3:17 4 
:il6188 
33.'j'2(). 
36. 21.4 
38.3 22.3 
40.6 '.i4. 
;42.9 254 

i'17 3 28. 

149 0:29 4 
519^308 
54 |32. 
56.3 334 
67640. 
76 6 45.4 

i90 53. 



30. 136. 
KI.S:.3><. 
tW.4i40. 
K-T 42. 
tj 1.8144. 
J;i8.4;46. 

24 40. 18, 

25 41.8, .50, 
30;&). j60. 



6£|6.I0 

27. 30 
31.6 35 
36. I 40- 
40 46 
45. I 60 
49.6, 65 
54. 80. 
58.6 66. 
63. (0 
67.6 75. 
72 I 80 
71) G' 85 
81. I W 
85 C 96 
90. 100 
94 6 106 
99 IIU 
103.6115 
KIM il'iO 
12 6 \% 
>:.:, li« 
K,;} illu 



D ME.AXURE. 
IE 

A S U B. B . 

Scantling or Tim- 
J l>y 3 in tli»> top 
: by 3 and a>?aiu«t 

I add two kngthi 







j3.7|3.8i! 


J.9|44 


'lO.tl 12. 1 


3c; 8. 


12.3 14 


5 'J »! 


ii4. lU;. ] 


18. lor 


U>\)\H \'. 


i0 312. 


;17.(l:20 i' 


:2(],134 


.119 3 22 1' 


ill) 14 8 


!21 24 


27, 16. 


) 22.92(1. 


29.3,17 4 


l24.t);-3. 


!l(ilg8 
33.'J 20. 


3 2(13 30 


128. '.il 


3<j. 21,4 


3 29.9 U 


38.3 22,3 


;3l.0 3ti 


40.6 24. 


^33.3 38. 1 


42.9 25.4 


35. 


40 


45. i2ii,8 


G;3<5.9 


42 


47 3 28. 


138 ti 


44 


49 6 29 4 


6 40.3 


4ti 


51930 8 


142. 148 


54 |32. 


C 43 9 &0 


56.3 334 


ir)2.«5 (10. 


67 6 40, 


rja.eidK 


7(3 G 45.4 


_!^7O_|80_ 


90 63, 


^. 



6.7 6.8 6.9,6.10 



24 

28 

32 

3(1 

40. 

44 

4S 

52. 

5(i. 

(30. 

(U. 

68. 

72. 

7(1 

80 

84 

88 

92 

9(1 



21 

24.0 

28. 

31.C 

3.5 

38.6 

42. 

45.(1 

49 

52.6 

66. 

&9 6 

03 

0<3 6 

70 

?.}.6 

77 

8() o; 

84 

i 87 6l(Kl- 
l()f> 120 
119 ';liKi 
110 1(J0 



30 
86 
40- 

46 
50 
56 
ft). 
66. 
70, 
75. 
80 
86 
90 
96 
100 



27, 
31.6 
3G. I 

40 g: 

4.5.! 
49.6, 
64. 
68.6 
63. 
67.6 
72 
7(1 g' 
81. 
85 G 
90 
94 61106 
99 110 
I03.GII;, 
KM il'^n 
112 CIS 
(:„', iliO 
:;.:> illy 



TniCKNKefl AND WIDTH IN INCIIKS. 



^U.n 6.12,7.7 



•il. I 

7i ■!-*.')' 



8 
9 

n\ 

12 
13 

14 

V) 
M 
17 
IS 



4 

4'JO' 
f,5. I 
(1)(5, 
03. 1 



,>:■> I 
[li (i 
',fj 
IJ'I iKl 
21^110 
2ril')ii 
22'l21. 
2-3 12il.ll 
21-132 



M 

42. 

48 

hi. 

(30 

'id. 

."2. 

;s. 

84. 

90. 

90. 
Iit2. 
KS. 
114. 
120 
1.:'3 
l:i2 
l:J-i 
144. 



24. (3 

28. 7 
32. 8 
3'i 9 
14(1 10 
|4411 
!49. 



J3. 



67 
'01 
104 

1(19 
:73 

'77. 7 
81. 8 
85 9 
89 10 
93.11 
il-i 



7.8 


7.9 1 


28 


31 (ij 


32 8 


3.19 


37,4 


42. 


42. 


47.3 


4(5.8 


52.0 


61 4 


57.9 


&'i 


63. 


6.1 8 


68.3 


(15.4 


73 


70 


78 9 


74 8 


84. 


79 4 


89.3 


84. 


94 (1 


, 88-8 


99.9 



93.4 10.'). 

9S. ;llo.; 
l'i-i.8 11 ..' 
107 4 120 ' 
112 120 



3V 

4» 

40 

62. 

,5S. 

(14. 

7(_). 

7.5. 

81. 

87. 

93 

9». 
I'i5. 
lid. 
IM, 
122, 
12s, 
131 



I HO 



10 


7.11 


lio 

. 8 


38. 
44.11 
61. 4 



64. 

70. 



( I . 

10' 83, 
8 89. 
6 90 
4 102. 
2 109. 
116. 

10 121 
8 128. 
6 134 
4 141. 
2 147. 
1.54 



7.12 

42. 

49. 

60. 

9 03. 

2 70. 
77. 
84. 
91. 
98. 

3 105 

8 112. 
119 
120. 
133. 
140. 

9 147 
2 164 
7 101. 

'lOS 



8.8 


8.y 


8.10 


8.11 


{4.12 


3:^. 


30. 


40. 


44 


4S. 


37.4 


42 


4«8 


61.4 


56 


42 8 


48 


6;j.4 


58.8 


{A. 


48. 


64 


60. 


60 


72. 


63.4 


60. 


60.8 


73.4 


80 


68.8 


60 


7i.4 


80 8 


88. 


04. 


72. 


80. 


88. 


93 


69.4 


78. 


80.8 


96.4 


104 


74.8 


84. 


93.4 


I02.8 


112. 


80. 


•I). 


K'O. 


110. 


120. 


85.4 


96. 


100.8117.4 


128. 


90.8 102, 


113.4 124.8 


136. 


90. :i(i8. 


120. il32. 


144, 


1014 114. 


120.8139 4 


1.52. 


100,8 120. 


1.3;J.4 140.8 


100 


112. 120 


110. 151. 


168 


117.4 132. 


140.8 101 4 


176 


122.8 1,38 


V^i 4 108.8 


m. 


128 


144 


100. 


1:0 


U>2 



. r 




.^-... ,n.Ti.,..».a,.„. 






"■^■^ 


"■" 




.9.9 9.10 9.11 J. J..< 

I'l 45. 49.0 64. 


5 lJ.i(Ll 


iO.ii 


i.0.i2 


il.ll 

(3((. 


11.12 

66. 


12.12 
72. 


12.13 12.14 


t> 


60. 


66. 


0). 


78. 


84 


1 


47 3 62 67 9 03. 


68.4 


(14. 2 


70. 


70. 7 


) (. 


84. 


91. 


98. 


•8 


;a. ; (10. 00. 1 72 
(11 9 07 74,3 81. 


6 18 


73. 4 


8(. 


80. 8 


8i. 


90. 


104. 


112. 


!) 


i:i. 


80. 


9(. 


9 1. 9 


99. 


108. 


• 117. 


120. 


l',i 


(ir.'l 75. 82.0 90. 


83.4 


91. 8 


10;) 


KO.lM 


110. 


liO, 


13). 


140 


11 


713 82.0 9J9 99. 


91.8 


lOO.l.j 


110. 


110.11 


121. 


1.3.3. 


iVi. 


1.54. 


12 


,sl 90 9D. 108 


10). 


110. 


120. 


121. 


132. 


U4. 


16'!. 


168. 


li 


,s7 9 9;.61(»7 3 117. 


10H,4 


119. 2 


130. 


131. 1 


113. 


150. 


Mi). 


182. 


14 


;(l.!l l')5. 115.0 120 


113 8 


128. 4 


14). 


141. 2 


154. 


1(38. 


i82. 


193. 


1.-) 


1:>1 3 112 123,9 135. 


125. 


137. 


16). 


161. 3 


1.15. 


18). 


195. 


210. 


Iti 


lis 120. 132, 144. 


133.4 


113. 8 


MO. 


101. 4 


170. 


192. 


2)3. 


221. 


17 


114 9 127 6 14(3 153 


141 8 


ir.j.lt 


170. 


171. 6 


1S7 


2.4. 


221. 


23 i. 


lsM2l,0l;.5. lis 1(32. 


150. 


10.5 


1.80. 


181. 


19S. 


210. 


234. 


252. 


1;( i:s 3 142 6 150.9 171. 


158.4 


171. 2 


l.t). 


191. 7 


V09. 


228. 


247. ^ 


203. 


2) 1.15. 1.50. 105. 18 ). 


101.8 


lii. 4 


2O1). 


21)1. 8 


220. 


2 K). 


20). 


2S.). 


21 111,9 1570173.318;). 


1V5. 


l;i2. 


2M. 


211. 9 


231. 


252. 


273. 


294. 


22 I ISO 1 6. 181.0 19S. 


1S3.J 


2'il. 8 


220. 


221.1) 


2 2. 


204. 


28 3. 


308. 


2.J 1.55.3 17J.6 18.1 20,. 


r.ii 8 


21'>.10 


23 ) 


231.11 


253. 


270. 


299. 


322. 


24 


lt,-2. 1^0. 19S. 210. 


2(.i. 22'> 1 21 >, 


212 


■J!U 


2S-( 


.'!!' 


3!! 



u.113.15 12.16 13.13 13.14 13.1d 13.13 14.14 14.15 14.16 id.lS I6.16 



l"i 

11 

11 

l:i 

14' 

15 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2" 

V 

•y 

^ 



•J). 
Iii5. 
120. 
135. 
IV), 
105. 
1,?0, 
196 
210. 
22-5. 
210, 
255 
lU). 

.iiO 
:1I5 
U\ 
,Ui 
,100 



96. 
112. 
128. 
144. 
100. 
1.0. 
192. 
208. 
224 
240 
250 
272. 
288. 
;404 
320, 
330 
352 
308 
.184 



84. 01 
98 7 1 

112, 8 

120 '.) 

140,10 

154.11 

109 

18.3 

197 

214 

226 

239 

243 

267 



1 

2 
3 
4 
6 

7 
8 

285. 9' 

299.10! 

813 11 

338 



ri. 



91. 

loo. 2 
121. 4 
130 (. 
151 8 
100 l)\ 
182. 



107 
212 
227 

212. 

•) 



Z 

1, 

6 

H 

■>7.l0i 

2;3 I 

2S3 2' 
3)3 4 
311 6 
.■«3. 8 
348 10, 
304 ' 



97.0 
113 9 
13). 
140 3 
10; 

178 9 

211 3 
227.0 
243 9 
2A) 
270 .J 
292 
.3)8 9 
325. 
311 3 
3Vr.(! 
373) 
f(0 



lol 
1214 
13S8 
150. 
1 73.4 
19 ).8 
208. 
2-25 4 
i42 8 
2<i). 
,277 4 
j 294 S 
312 

i ;r29 4 

310,8 
' .3 14 

I ;isi.4 
' 4 10 

u 



98, 


105 


114 4' 


ij;'0 


1.30.8 


P.O. 


147. 


157 C 


133 4 


175. 


1 ro 8 


192,6 


190. 


210. 


•212 4 


22/0 


22s .3 


245 


2-46, 


202 


201 4 


28(V 


1277 8 


297 6 


1 290 


314 


13104 


.332.6 


320 8 


350. 


343 


;M7.0 


3.14 


:w.5 


i]/-5 8 


402,6 


.m 


420 



112. 
13». 5 
1 19,4 
108. 
180 8 
2 )6 4 
2-24. 
2^42 S 
201 4 
2'0 
298 8 
317 i 
33(3 
354 8 
.373 4 
.392. 
410 S 
429 4 
44a 



1 12.0 


120. 


131.3 


140 


1.50. 


110 


1(389 


189 


187.0 


200 


206 .' 


'£!•) 


223 


■iO. 


24^1 fl 


J(»t 


2 32 


280 


2S1 .4 


390 


a')o 


820 


318 9 


340. 


337 


30) 


350 3 


380. 


376 


400 


'3;)3 9 


420 


4l-.^0 


H9 


4;fl 3 


4(40 


460 


480 



I "•-' 



p» 



-If » 



d , 






■ 






li 



m 



\h 






BOARD AND TLANK MKAhURKMKM-AT HIGIIT 

DiIk TiiWn (Ives llio Rq. Ft. nml In. in Ilfinni from (> to •.'.') in. wlil , ami fn-ni k ki 36 ft, jo^. 
Tf u l)o;inl 1)1! lonirtT lliiin 'M'> ft., unito two nunihcis, 'I'Iih, If a IJd.inl is 4i) fi lonif i.nq 
IKln. >vi(io, add 30nn(l lUamlyiiii hiivu &3 ft. 4 in. For 2-in I'lunli double tii ;i)u,/«(( 



*. tigii in W 

a r-S 


7 ill 
ft. 


in. 


S ill W 
ft. in. 


w in W 
11. in 


lOiiiW 


lliiiW 


f_'iii\V 


l:(ii 


. \V 


1 ill 


W 


liMllW 




ft. in 


ft. in 


ft in. 
7 4 


ft in 


ft. 


in. 


n. 


in 


ft. in. 


8 


4 


4 


8 


6 4 


GO 


6 8 


8 


8 


8 


9 


4 


10 


9 


4 6 


5 


y 


G 


G 9 


7 6 


S 3 


« 


9 


9 


10 


6 


113 


10 


5 


5 10 


6 8 


7 6 


8 4 


9 2 


10 


10 10 


11 


8 


12 6 


11 


6 (5 


6 


6 


7 4 


8 3 


9 2 


10 1 


11 


11 11 


12 


10 


12 9 


12 


G 


7 





a 


9 


10 


Jl 


12 


13 





14 





15 


13 


6 <) 


7 


1 


8 8 


) 9 


10 1(> 


11 11 


13 


14 


1 


15 


2 


16 3 


14 


7 


8 


2 


9 4 


H. G 


11 8 


12 10 


14 


15 


2 


16 


4 


17 6 


If) 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 3 


12 G 


13 9 


15 


IG 


3 


17 


6 


18 9 


It) 


8 


9 


4 


10 8 


12 


13 4 


14 8 


16 


17 


4 


18 


8 


20 


17 


8 ti 


9 


11 


11 4 


12 9 


14 2 


15 7 


17 


18 


5 


I'J 


10 


21 3 


IK 


y 


If) 


G 


12 


13 G 


15 


16 6 


18 


19 


6 


21 





226 


19 


y G 


n 


1 


12 8 


14 3 


15 10 


17 5 


19 


20 


1 


22 


2 


23 9 


20 


10 


11 


8 


1.} 4 


15 


IG 8 ' 18 4 


20 


21 


8 


23 


4 


25 


21 


10 6 


12 


3 


14 


15 9 


17 G 1 19 3 


21 


22 


9 


24 


6 


26 3 


22 


11 


12 


10 


14 8 


16 G 


18 4 


20 2 


22 


23 


10 


25 


8 


27 6 


23 


11 6 


13 


5 


15 4 


17 3 


19 2 


21 1 


23 


24 


11 


26 


10 


28 9 


24 


12 


14 





16 


18 


20 


22 


24 


26 





28 





30 


2r) 


12 G 


14 


7 


16 8 


18 9 


20 10 


22 11 


25 


27 


1 


29 


o 


313 


2G 


13 


15 


2 


17 4 


19 6 


21 8 


23 10 


26 


28 


2 


30 


4 


32 6 


27 


13 6 


15 


<» 


18 


20 3 


22 t) 


24 9 


27 


29 


3 


31 


f) 


33 9 


28 


14 


16 


4 


18 8 


21 


23 4 


25 8 


28 


3:> 


4 


32 


8 


35 


25) 


14 6 


16 


11 


19 4 


21 9 


24 2 


26 7 


29 


31 


5 


33 10 


36 3 


30 


15 


17 


6 


20 


22 6 


25 


27 6 


30 


32 


G 


35 





37 6 


31 


15 6 


18 


1 


20 8 


23 3 


25 10 


28 5 


31 


33 


i 


36 


2 


38 9 


82 


16 


18 


8 


•n 4 


24 


26 8 


29 4 


32 


34 


8 


37 


4 


40 


33 


16 6 


19 


3 


22 


24 9 


27 6 


30 3 


33 


35 


9 


3S 


6 


413 


34 


17 


19 10 


22 8 


25 G 


2S 4 


31 2 


34 


36 


10 


39 


8 


42 6 


35 


17 G 


20 


6 


33 4 


26 3 


29 2 


32 1 


35 


37 


11 


40 10 


43 9 


3(5 


18 


21 





24 


27 


30 


33 


36 


89 





42 





45 



BOA IM) TA 15 1.E M IC A SU 1{ i:.M !;NT— Contiwukd. 



8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
is 
lo 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
29 



HiinW 


ITinW 


ft in. 


ft. in. 
11~4 


10 8 


12 


12 9 


13 4 

14 8 


14 2 


15 7 


16 


17 


3 17 4 


18 5 


1 1*< 8 


19 10 


i 20 


21 3, 


21 4 


22 8 


24f 


24 1 


25 G 


25 4 


26 11 


26 8 


2S 4 


28 


29 9 


29 4 


31 2 


30 8 


32 7 


32 (t 


34 


33 4 


35 5 


■M « 


36 10 1 


:v\ 


;« 3 , 


.•7 4 


39 8 ' 


38 8 


11 1 


i <^) 


42 6 



in\V|l.SiMW|l;iiiiV\' -.'OiiiW 



ft. in. ft in. ft. in. 



12 

13 G 

15 

16 () 

18 

19 6 

21 

22 G 

24 

25 G 

27 

28 6 

30 

31 6 

33 

34 G 

36 

37 t) 

39 

40 (5 

42 

43 6 
45 



12 8 

14 3 

15 10 



17 



19 

20 7 

22 2 

23 9 

25 4 

26 11 
28 G i 

30 1 I 

31 8 
i 33 3 
; 34 10 

3'i 5 
138 
i3.t 7 

41 2 

42 9 I 
41 4 

,45 11 
147 G 



13 4 

15 

16 8 
18 4 
2 t 
21 8 
23 4 

25 

26 8 
28 4 

30 

31 8 
33 
35 
36 
38 

40 

41 8 
43 4 

45 

46 8 
48 4 
50 



•iliiiW 


•->2iii \V 


ft. in. 


ft. in. 


14 


14 8 


15 9 


16 6 


17 G 


18 4 


19 


20 2 


21 


22 


22 9 


23 10 


24 6 


25 8 


26 3 


27 G 


28 


29 4 


29 9 


31 2 


31 G 


33 


33 3 


34 10 


35 


3!) 8 


36 9 


38 G 


38 6 


40 4 


40 3 


42 2 


42 (» 


44 


43 9 


45 10 


45 6 


47 8 


i; 3 


49 6 


r.> 


51 4 


50 9 


53 2 


51 G 


55 



2;i ill W 



ft. in. 



'ilinWl25inW 
ft. in. 



ft. in. 



15 


4 


16 


16 


8 


17 


3 


18 


18 


9 


19 


2 


20 


20 


10 


21 


1 


22 


')0 


11 


23 





24 


25 





24 11 


2(; 


27 


1 


26 


1(1 


28 


29 


2 


28 


9 


3(1 


31 


3 


3.» 


8 


32 


;>3 


4 


32 


7 


34 


35 


i 


34 


6 


36 


37 


e 


3ii 


5 


38 


39 


1 


38 


4 


40 J 


41 


8 


40 


3 


42 


43 


9 


42 


2 


44 


45 


10 


44 


1 


4(i U 


47 


11 


46 





48 <i 


50 





47 


11 


5' 


52 


1 


49 


10 


52 


54 


2 


51 


9 


51 


56 


3 


53 


8 


56 


58 


4 


55 


7 


58 


GO 


5 


57 


G 


GO 


62 






i; 



SIGHT 



!■• Ml >- Id 


W ft. Ion\ 


I'l is l;) n 


l..i;ljlutli 


I'lOilmt 


1 I in W 


lililiW 






n. ill 


ft. in, 


9 4 


10 


10 (> 


113 


11 H 


12 6 


12 10 


12 9 


U 


15 


If) 2 


16 3 


i«; 4 


17 6 


17 6 


18 9 


18 8 


20 


I'J 10 


21 3 


21 


226 


22 2 


23 9 


23 4 


:i5o 


24 6 


1 26 3 


25 8 


27 6 


2(! 10 


28 9 


28 


30 


21t 2 


31 3 


;U) 4 


32 6 


31 (5 


33 9 


•.12 8 


35 


l];3 10 


36 3 


3o 


37 6 


;iii 2 


38 9 


87 4 


40 


8S 6 


413 


.'i'J 8 


42 6 


411 10 


43 9 


42 


45 


QKO. 


" 


V ■ilinVVi 


25 inW 


. ft. ill. 


ft. in. 


16 ' 


16 8 


18 


18 9 


20 ' 


2«' 10 


22 ' 


22 11 


24 


25 


2tl 


27 1 


2S 


-It 2 


30 , 


.n 3 


32 (1 


o.i 4 


34 


35 i 


30 


37 e 


38 (1 , 


;ii» 1 


41 > J : 


41 8 


42 1 


4.1 9 


44 


J5 10 


4<) 


47 11 


48 » 


50 


r>' 


52 1 


f)2 


54 2 


51 


5'i 3 


.")*; (1 ; 


58 4 


58 1 


IJ) 5 


1 (JO 1 


i;2 



LOUS JUil'UCKD TO UUNNI>U liOARD ME.'.SURE. 

Loiv< iM:niT'"i:r) to onm: i\rn hoahd Mr.ASi im";. 

I!' tl:>' 1 '.: i^ 1''" C'l' lii.iii i- <'^>ii! ill.' I i I till' liilvli', t,(!vi' :iiiy iwu |i'i;frt|)s. 

'I'iii^ I.I "t I'iMiiiiit oil ilic Kit ui\i.-. II. !• Iftit'ilf o il.c \,t)<x ii. l.'(t. riot 
jjii!'".-! nil,' I) (ii'i ntf the ih;itiii ♦.'is ot iht' l.c'r-' in iiK-lu-. 1 1'mlinmil 
I'ai":' t>r ihrh''- lie iidi ^rivfit 

Tin' (!i:iMir IT of ti!;il)i'r is m>ii;iII\- tiikcii 2" lict from tin' hull. All lo{.?3 
lioit ill' 2'i u >•!, i;ili.' Iiic uiiiiiii'ii' ;il ilic tup. or <iii:ill < nd. 

To liii'l lli<' iiiiiiitiiT of fci t of Ixiarils whirli a 1' ^ will iiroilucc \\ lii'ii 
nwi'ii, Hike tln' I(ii;.Mli I'f H'ct in ilic iii.st coliiiim on iliu It'fi liaiiil, unii tlie 
liiiiiirii'i' at tin' top of the jiaj^e irt ii.cli('<. 

^uiij]0-(' a lo.' 12 fi'ct loiii; am! 24 iiidifs in (Il!iini''i'r. In Ilic li'ft liiiiul 
(Oliiiiin is tin- li'ii^jtli. and opposite VJ. unilcr i:4 i.s3ii0, tin' miinbir ol feet of 
.vjai'il."* ill a Ion (>(■ iliat Icii'itli ami tii;iim'tt'r. 



i'» 11 

in 

1 - I' 

'' 1 

\;i 

i.t 

11 f 

w . 

!5ij 

!8 : 
."J L 

Ki- 
ll 



'1 

]■:. 

i\ 



- i 



I'J 

21 

22 3 
23 

It , 
2i 

27 l< 

28 ; 



I). 

12 

54 
5'J 

t;i 

71 

M 

S.) 

Ill 
!'J 
1 '\ 
I •.) 
hi 
IfJ 
1.^1 
l.J 
1 .1 
l.v> 

i;i 
lij 
r.i 

'!>." 
25 

'J^3 
.'111 

;;io 
.•i'ij 
307 
4:^0 

4.5 
1S3 
512 
541 

51 i'J 
.5'J8 
027 
( 155 

t;s4 

. 13 
742 
771 

8'0 
.'-!20 

,S.-)8 
8.i7 



1> 
13 

I'. 'i 
7J 
7'< 
M 
11 1 
'•1 



1-1 
I-. 

l.'J 

li5 
1 '1 

1 7 





;j 




..» 


' 


■> 




<l 







a. 

215 

3! IK 
: K» 
37 1 
4111 
43-) 
4'i5 

'i.n; 

527 
558 
5'JO 
621 
(»J 
084 
715 
746 
777 
;^ii8 

8!i'.) 
8.'0 

r»ti 

mi 

Or .3 



i>. 

14 



^3 
ill) 

ur 

li,4 

111 
lis 
\j\ 
l;;3 

liO 

117 
1,4 
I'-l 
1 8 
1.6 
N3 
l.iil 
m; 

>i)4 
-ill 

'.IS 

J25 

..:'/ 

3.i'.> 
371 
41 1- 
412 
470 
511 
515 
57'J 
G13 
047 
6S1 
716 
751) 
7S4 
HIS 
853 

'j.:l 

055 

\y.:, 

hVot 



i). 


1). 


15 


16 


!)3 


1114 


11)2 


111 


111 


124 


1_» 


i.;i 


V13 


144' 


l;iS 


1..4i 


li.i 


Iti-ii 


1.55 


173 


Ml 


H;i! 


173 


l!)3' 


1S2 


2l.'3: 


IJI 


213| 


2i'0 


2:'3| 


20'J 


•.331 


•iis 


213 


2J7 


253 


2.Ji 


U .3 


'245 


-73 


251 


2S] 


2i;3 


•_!».» 


'^7.; 


;: 3 


2.S1 


313 



1». 

28 

3V.» 
3Jii 
432 
4.;;t 
5' . 
5 . 
5,-> 
Oil 
6,5ii 
6SS 
724 
700 
70il 
833 
81!) 
•J ■; 

\)V!. 

W.J 

l:ll5 

lor.; 
loss 
1125 



1). 


D. 


17 


18 


17<i 


137 


131 


151 


U3 


l(;4 


151 


177 


1.;.; 


101 


1.-. 


'2.14 


1-.J 


-.17 


2ii(i 


•.:;;i 


212 


-\i 


2-J3 


'Z'>~ 


•^3'; 


271 


247 


:.si 


250 


::i»7 


'i7(' 


311 


is'2 


;).'4 


ZO.i 


37 


3)5 


35ii 


3li. 


3' .3 


32S 


37'1 


330 


3S0 


3-)l 


4o2 


3.2 


415 



i). 


D. 


1) 


'* 1 


1, 


21) 


21 


22 


151 


IT'J 


r.M 


21') 


IC.H 


11). i 


213 


•J31 


1S4 


•^11 


232 


252 


litO 


2;,l 


251 


'2; 3 


211 


2ii> 


270 


'2; '3 


'I'd) 


%■■'•) 


•2,>J 


3U 


'1\\ 


2>4 


3<i8 


3:;5 


'.i50 


3.11 


327 


350 


174 


3 I'J 


316 


377 


'iSK 


336 


ot>5 


40,'i 


3' -4 


• 51 


;is4 


419 


31 J 


371 


4(.3 


440 


;.3i 


3SJ 


4::2 


4i;i 


340 


4u7 


441 


6S1 


3ii4 


4i:4 


461) 


502 


3,0 


442 


470 


5: 3 


.j.)l 


45'J 


4'JS 


544 


4(''.) 


477 


517 


. 65 


424 


404 


536 


! ,S6 


430 


512 


555 


6' i7 


451 


52'J 


574 


(528 


4'iJ 


517 


503 


640 



1). I i> 

23 '24 



261 
2-5 
31 IS 

3 , 

;i.o 

41)2 
4-6 
44J 
4.3 
40. 
6.;' I 
542 
i.6s 
501 
61.. 

C.i.! 

6i3 
VI I 



1). 

29 

3; 7 

415 
453 
401 
520 
567 
605 
643 
681 
710 
757 
705 
8.34 
8. "2 
Oil) 
OlM 
u-o; 

l'i21 
VM\'l\ 

11(10 1 

1 3S! 
11761 



U. 

30 

407 
•117 

4>^0 
53 I 
571 
612 
653 
604 
735 
776 
817 
8.V.» 
001) 
Oil! 

OS-j; 

1 IJ3: 

li:r,4 
1105, 
l-iO: 
1!m' 
1-S, 
12501 



D. 

31 



410 

484 

528 

572 

f>18 

«;62 

7o6 

751 

705 

830 

881 

028 

972 

1017 

1061 

llo5 

1140 

1103; 

12371 
12SI; 
1325, 
13691 



\). 

32 

456 

502 

518 

504 

640 

681 

732 

778 

824 

870 

016 

962 

1 08 

1054 

llDO 

1146 

ll'.)2: 

1-23S 

13; 10 

1376 
I4'22i 



U. 
33 

486 

5;i5 

581 

63;] 

6S2! 

731 

780 

829 

878 

927 

976 

1025 

1074 

11-3 

11721 

i22i: 

1270 
1310: 

13 ;« 

141; 

lino 

15151 



I). 
34 

406 
516 
5d6j 
64t)| 
6061 
716| 
7'J6 
816 
806 
946 
906 
11146 
loitii 
lll6j 
110.) 
1216! 
1^:06; 
13461 
r:!i.i| 
lil'i 

iiii,; 

15461 



U. 

35 

51 { 

5! IS 

653 

7o;s 

7'i2 

817 

8,2 

<J-'7 

9'1 

1036 

lOlil 

1146 

12i.U 

1255 

1310 

13)5 

ll:;0 

1475 

ir.;-;o 

15S5 

lOlil 

1605 



'256 
270 
JiOO 
327 
3i)0 
376 
401 
42'i 
451 
477 
5oL 
527 
f.0'2 
56S 
613 
6:i8 
6j'i3 
678 
7' 3 
728 
753 
• 78 

u. 

36 

573 
630 
688 
746 
803 
861 
919 
976 
lo;i4 

1002 

1148 

1206 

12(>1 

1318 

I 1376 

I 1431 

I I40'i 

I 1550 

' 1 ;'i8 

1 ;;>; 
, ir.i 

I 178^ 



EQUAL SHjF.S TIMBl.R MKASUIlE. — CAST IRON. 

SOi.ID CONTENTS OF KQl'AL SIDES TlMBEIl. 

If thp I.op; is short! rtlinn is contaiiipd in t!io Tnblo. I.ikp iialf orquartpr 
of soiiii' IciifftJi, illoii^tr iloiililf Mniic l('i;f.'tli. 'J'lic Iciijjtli ot the l.on is 
Rivi'ii on the toj- of tin- columns, tlic diainc icr in the lift tiiind coluiiiii. To 
obtain the; Cubical C«int«'ntH of MaHts, t«p:irs, liouiid Log.*, Jtc, subtract 
ouu-fouith fruui the Coutuut:^ 



1 r 






o 


L 


L 




L 


L 


1 




I. 


L* 


L. 


L 


L. 


L 




L. 


9 


10^ 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


If 




20 


6* 


2 3 


2 


6 


2 9 


3 


3 


3 


3 G 


39 


4 


4 3 


4 6 


4 


t» 


~Po 


7 


3 


3 


4 


3 7 


4 1 


4 


5 


4 9 


5 1 


65 


6 9 


C 2 


6 


6 


C 10 


8 


4 1 


4 


4 


4 10 


5 4 


5 


9 


G 2 


6 7 





8 5 


8 10 


9 


3 


9 8 


9 


5 2 


5 


9 


G 2 


69 


7 


4 


7 11 


8 6 


9 1 


9 8 


10 3 


10 


10 


11 5 


10 


6 2 


G 


1(. 


7 8 


8 4 


9 





9 8 


10 4 


11 U H 


12 4 


13 





13 8 


11 


7 « 


8 


4 


<» 8 


10 1 


10 11 


11 9 


12 7 


13 5 14 3 


15 1 


15 


11 


10 9 


12 


y 10 





11 


12 


13 





14 


15 


16 17 


18 


19 


(1 


20 


13 


10 411 


7 


12 10 


14 1 


15 


3 


16 5 


17 9 


IH 9 19 11 


21 1 


22 


3 


2;] 6 


14 


12 2 13 


7 


1! 11 


16 4 


47 


8 


18 11 


20 3 


21 7 -2 11 


24 3 


25 


*• 
1 


20 U 


15 


14 2 


15 


917 2 


18 9 


20 


4 


21 11! 


23 5 


25 2(5 7 


28 2 


29 


9 


31 4 


16 


16 


17 


10 lit 6 21 4 


23 


1 


24 10 


26 7 


28 4 30 1 


31 10 


33 


7 


a-i 4 


17 


18 


2') 


'22 24 1 


26 


1 


28 1 


30 1 


32 1 'M 1 


36 1 


38 


1 


40 1 


18 


20 3 


22 


() 24 9 27 


29 


3 


31 C 


33 9 


36 38 3 40 6 


42 


9 


45 


19 


22 « 


25 


'^7 6 30 1 


32 


1 


ii5 1 


37 7 


41 1 43 7 46 1 


48 


7 


52 


20 


26 


27 


1(1 30 10 33 4 


36 


1 


38 10 


41 7 


44 4 47 2 50 


52 


9 


55 9 


21 


'27 7 30 


8 33 9 3) 9 


39 


10 


42 11 


46 


49 1 52 2 55 3 58 


4 


61 5 


22 


30 2 ;<3 


6 3(5 lO/JO 4 


43 


8 


47 


50 4 


63 8 67 0: GO 4 G3 


8 


67 


23 


33 0'.S« 


8 40 4 44 I 


47 


9 


51 6 


55 1 


6S 9 G2 6 65 1 69 


9 


73 5 


24 


38 


40 


0'44 48 


52 





r>(i 


60 


(:4 G8 72 76 





80 


25 


;» (• 


43 


4 }8 1 .-,2 1 


56 


5 


60 9 


65 1 


69 5 73 9 78 1 82 


6 


86 9 


'.'6 

27 


42 2 


4t! 


11 01 7 6(j 4 


«1 





»i5 8 


70 4 


75 79 8' 84 4 89 





93 8 


4r» 7 


r,o 


8'f 5 9 (iO 9 


65 


10 


70 11 


76 


81 1 86 2! 91 7 96 


8 


101 11 


2S 


49 


54 


6 '59 10 fi5 4 


70 


9 


76 2 81 7 


85 92 6' 97 10 103 


3 


1(18 8 


29 


f)2 (! 


58 


4]64 2 70 1 


75 111 


81 9'87 7 


93 5 99 3]0,i 1112 


11 


117 9 


30 


65 9,«2 


Ol(J8 3,75 


81 


3187 6193 9 


100 106 3 112 G 118 


9 


125 



CAST IRON. 

WEIOnT OF A FOOT I^ LENGTH OP FLAT CAST IRON, 



WlHUi of 
Iron. 

Inrlius. 
2 

J' 
li 

f 



Tliick, I TIMck, 
l-llli incli. 13-SlliM Inch. 



'I'liick, ■Ihi.^K. I 'lliii'ii. Thii'k, 

!-•-' liii'li. i.VRilis iiioli.UMIhs liK'h. 7-M, h. iui li 



roiiw'.s. 
1 5'.i 

1 75 

l..'J5 
2.(4 
t i'4 

2 5;! 
2 
2 

3 



73 
f« 
12 
3 32 



61 
71 

iM) 



4 10 

t 4 -JB 

4 in 

4 68 



IN minis. 

2 34 
2 63 

2 92 

3 22 
3 51 
3 W 



10 
:*t 
G8 
97 
27 
56 

8:-) 



C.15 
(I M 

6 7« 

7 03 



I'ouiuIh. 


3 12 


3 61 


3 90 


4 29 


4 68 


6 CI 


t, VJ 


6 85 


6 25 


6 trl 


7 03 


7 42 


7 81 


8 20 


S 5'J , 


ti m 


9 37 



I'oiiiicis 

3 !«) 

4 39 
4 88 



6 81 
6 83 
32 

81 
30 

78 



f» 
( 

8 

8 

9 

9 

1(1 25 
1(1 74 
11 23 
11 71 



7(> 



I'iiuikIs. 

4 f;8 

5 27 
5 85 

G 44 
7 0.1 

7 61 

8 20 

8 78 

9 37 
9 96 

liKo-t 
11 13 

11 71 

12 m 

12 .8» 



I'oi.nd". 



G 15 
G 83 

7 51 
8.20 

8 8S 



9.57 
10 25 
10. 93 
11.62 
12 3i) 

12 98 

13 <i7 

w ;k-. 
.- ... , -ir, 03 

13 4« 1 ^5 72 

14 (XI I 10 40 



'I i.i.k, 

I incli 

I'lUIIlIs. 

G -Si 

7 o;i 

7 81 

8 59 
9.37 

10 15 
I' !(3 

II 71 

12 iV) 

13 28 

14 U6 

14 H4 

15 62 

16 4(1 

17 IS 

17 !m; 

IS 76 



14 



IRON. 



KR. 



lalfoT 


'1 


lartrT 


1 ot the I. on in 


1(1 col 


iiiiii. To 


,Ac.. 


s^ubtract 


L 




L. 


V.) 




20 





— 


^ 


G 4 


'-♦1 


6 n 


2 « 


G 


6 10 


y 


■.i 


9 H 


3 10 


10 


11 5 


4 13 





13 8 


1 15 11 


10 9 


19 





20 


1 22 


3 


2:! 5 


3 25 


7 


2r, u 


2 29 


9 


31 4 


33 


R 

( 


3:. 4 


1 38 


1 


40 1 


42 


9 


45 


1 48 


1 


52 


62 


9 


55 9 


3 58 


4 


Gl 5 


4 (53 


8 


67 


1 69 


9 


73 5 


7« 





80 


1 82 


5 


8G 9 


4 -89 


(1 


93 8 


7 90 


8 


101 11 


10 1(13 


3 


1(18 8 


1112 


n 


117 9 


(i 118 


9 


125 



lUON. 



'hick, 


•Inuli, 


li.> iuv-h. 


1 inch 


._.^ 




(11,11(1-'. 


rcuiids. 


5 4« 


(i 1^0 


(! 15 


7 0.S 


G S3 


7 SI 


7 51 


8 59 


8. 20 


9 37 


8 8S 


10 15 


9.57 


1' 93 


26 


11 71 


0.93 


12 (7) 


1.G2 


13 28 


12. 30 


14 06 


'2 98 


14 84 


3 G7 


15 1;2 


w ;k-. 


16 411 


5 (13 


17 1- 


5 72 


17 I'l; 


10 40 


IS 76 



TABLES FOR ENGINEERS ANTJ MACHINISTS. 

WEIGHT or ONE FOOT OF FLAT BAR IRON. 

yfn n!ir of Iron bn thlc!;pr tlinn ti.nlninort In tlio Tahio, add toppthor 
fli ■ ^1:! of tun Nimilii rs. or .roblo tliiMvcifrlit '.'t' oiip N'liinbcr. >Vimtid 
f)i. uciclitot 1 loot ot Hiir Iioi', : iiic-liPH broad and "2 1-4 iiichpti thick. 
Oiiiii.Htt' I and under 1 i> Ki-."(;4, which doubled is 2G-728 ; add tho weight 
of l-4tii (o341), <Miiial 30-069 lbs. 









THICKNESS l^ 


r PARTS 


OK AN 


lycn. 








i 

.835 


A 


1 


lV 


i 


1 

2 088 


1 


i 


lin. 


1 


1.044 


1.2.53 


1.461 


1.670 


2,506 


2 923 


3 340 


1 
1 


.939 


1 174 


1.409 


1644 


1.878 


2.348 


2.818 


3.2CT 


3 755 


' 1.044 


1.305 


1.6GG 


1.826 


2.088 


2.'j('9 


3.1fJ2 


3 6f,3 


4.176 


1 


1.148 


1.435 


1.722 


2.009 


2.296 


2;<io 


:.444 


4.018 


4.692 


1 


1252 


1.56G 


1.879 


2.192 


2.504 


3.131 


3.758 


4 384 


6.008 


1 


1.358 


1.696 


2.035 


2.374 


2.716 


3.392 


4.070 


4.749 


6.432 


1 


1.4';2 


l.S'J7 


2.192 


2.557 


2.924 


3 653 


4.384 


6.114 


6.848 


h 


1.566 


1.957 


2.848 


2.740 


3.132 


3.914 


4.696 


6.479 


6.264 


2 


1.671 


2.088 


2.605 


2.922 


3.342 


4.175 


5.nl0 


6.845 


6.684 


2 




1.775 


2.218 


2 6G2 


3.105 


3.660 


4.436 


6 324 


6.210 


7.100 


2 




1.8S0 


2.348 


2.818 


3.288 


3.760 


4.696 


5636 


6 676 


7.520 


2| 




1.9S4 


2 479 


2.976 


8.470 


3 968 


4.957 


5 960 


6 941 


7.936 


•2 




2.088 


2.609 


3 131 


3G63 


4176 


6.218 


6 262 


7.306 


8.362 







2 193 


2.740 


3 288 


3 836 


4 386 


6.479 


6 676 


7.671 


8.772 


i 




2 297 


2 870 


3 444 


4 018 


i694 


6.740 


6.888 


8 036 


9.188 


2 


2 1(12 


3 001 


3 -/. 


4 201 


4,804 


6.001 


7.202 


8.402 


9 608 


3 


2 50G 


3.131 


3 758 


4 384 


6 012 


262 


7616 


8.767 


10 024 


3t 


2 715 


3 392 


4 071 


4 749 


6 439, 


6.784 


8 142 


9.498 


10.860 


dk 


2 923 


3 653 


4 384 


6 114 


6 816 


7.306 


8 768 


10 228 


11.692 


■6\ 


3 132 


8 914 


4G97 


6 479 


6 264 


7 828 


9.394 


10 959 


12.628 


4 


3 341 


4 176 


() 010 


6846 


6 682 


C.860 


10 020 


11690 


13.364 


4| 


3 549 


4 438 


6 323 


6 210 


7 098 


nMi 


10 646 


12 421 


14196 


•2. 
4 


3 758 


4 G97 


5.636 


6 675 


7 616 


uQdQ 


11 272 


13161 


16.032 


3 9(i6 


4 958 


5.919 


6 941 


7 932 


9 916 


11898 


13 881 


16.864 


b 


4 175 


b.219 


2>,j 


7 308 


8 360 


iO.437 ■ 


12 626 


14.612 


16 700 


6.f 


4.384 


6.479 


6 67-? 


7 671 


b768 


10 968 


18.162 


16 343 


17.536 


6i 


4 593 


5 741 


6 889 


«037 


»186 


11480 


13 778 


16.073 


18.372 


bi 


4.801 


6 001 


} 202 1 


<J.402 


9 602 


12 00*2 


14 404 


16.304 


19.204 


« 


1 


5.010 
c— 


G 262 


7.bl5 


^ ;67 ; 


10.020 12 624 ! 16 030 1 17 635 | 


^.042 



WEIGHT OF Dyrr! 300 ARE KOOF 0> SHEET IRON, &0 






Thicknoss ibe tJu'Ji.' .nism f :ing | Wiro Gauge 



1 I 2 



8 



8.74 



Iron. 12.50 12 (M)ill,00il().00 

C.ip. 1 \ ,50 13 90:i2-.75 U.GO 10.10 

I5ra.*H 13 75 13 20 12.1011 90l 9 CI 






7 


8.12 


7.50 


9.40 


8,70 


8 93 


8 26 



d I '0 11 12 13 U 



6.86' 6.24 5.62 
7 90 7.20 6 60 
7.64 6.86 6.18 



5.00 
5.80 



4.38 3.75 3.12 
5()8 4.34i 3.60 



6.50 4.81 4 1213.43 



Thickness b^ the Wiro Gauge 



Iron 
Clip. 
B^^*ls 



15 16 17 ; 18 19 I 20 21 22 23 ' 24 25 26 27 28: 29 30 



2 8'2 

3 27 
3 10 



•I BO 2 IS. 1.86 
•2 90 '2. 53 2 15 
2 75 2 4012 0» 



1 70 1 54 1.40il 25 1.12 
1 97 1 78 I 62! 1 451.30 



1 00 

1 16 



1 87:. G9 1.54!l 3711 23|1 10 



90 

1.04 

99 



.80 
.92 



.64 .6'. .60 
.74 .641 53 
.70, .61 1.55 



No. 1 W irn (iaufjp is 5-16ths of an in-'h ; No. 4 i.s l-4th ; No. 11 Is l-8th ; 
No 13isl.l2tli: No ISisl-Utb: ^o, IGls 1-ltJth: No 17l8M8th; iJo l& 
Is 123 No 2218 132. ^^ 



i\ 



WEIGHT OV BAU IRON AND OTHER METALS. 



RUSSIA SHEET IRON 

Moa.''ures 56 by 2S Inches, nnd Is rated by tJu- woight per nhpot. Tho num. 
borw run Iroin 8 tn IS Ku.-*sliin lb.<. jut slirct. H l{us,-iaii iioiind-* (■(nnlTo 
Enfjiltth pounds; 9=f5.1 Ujh.; 19=9 lbs.; 11=10 lbs.; 12=11.2 lbs., Ac 
100 RuBsian lbs. equal 90 lbs. EiigU«b. 

WEIGHT OF ONE SQUARE FOOT OF PLATE IKON, &0. 



G0~^ 

QQ O • 

Eos 



h 
i 



i 


a, 
O 


cs 


Lead 


25 


2.9 


2.7 


3.7, 


5.0 


6.8 


5.6 


7.4 i 


7.5 


8.7 


8.2 


11.1 


10.0 


11.6 


10.9 


14.8 


126 


U.6 


13.6 


18.6 


15.0 


17.4 


16.3 


22.2 



u. O • 

"* j; ^^ 

I; ■"» 






1 


Copper. 


17.6 


20 3 


20.0 


23.2 


26.0 


28.9 


30.0 


3t.7 


36.0 


40.4 


40.0 


46.2 



n 



•0 
cl 



r.t.o 

21.8 

2;.', 
3J.5 
37.9 
^3.3 



29.8 
37.0 
44.4 

57.8 
b'J.2 



WEIGHT ONE FOOT IN LENGTH OF St^UARE AND ROUND 

BAR IRON 



r. 



7.* 


-> n 

rt ; 

a* 


s 
o 

o 


1 

-■ r. 

« a 


i 


.209 


.104 


H 


h 


.326 


.256 


IJ 


3 

J5 


.170 


.860 


' « 


tV 


.640 


.503 


2 


i 


.835 


.656 


24 


1^6 


1.057 


.831 


2i 




1.305 


1.026 


2| 


iii 


1.579 


1.241 


2.i 


.1 

4 


1.879 


1.476 


2g 


n 


2.205 


1732 


2.1 


7 


2.658 


2.011 


n 


H 


2.936 


2.306 


3 


1 


3.340 


2.624 


3J 


14 


4.228 


3.321 


3i 


li 


5.219 


4.099 


3J 


11 


6 315 


4.961 


4i 


li 


7.616 


5.913 


64 



m 




O 

u 

a a 

.^ 

8.820 
10.229 
11.744 
13.360 
16.083 
16.909 
18.840 
20.875 
23.116 
25.259 
27.608 
30,070' 
32 018 
36.279 
38.04.J 
4 ).91() 
43.89^ 
16 



a 
o 

p ..-I 
o 



6.928 
8.043 
9.224 
10.496 
11.846 
13 283 
14.797 
16.396 
18.146 
19.842 
21.684 
23.663 
26.620 
27.709 
29 8S1 
32 170 
84.472 



.^.2 



« 



a 



■~ 1) 



a 
o 



S ~ 



a 
o 
h . 

5a 

o 



33 4U.9oy I 30.895 

3|j 60 153 I 39.390 

4 63.^40 41.934 
4^ 56.833 44.G3I 
4) 60.329 4V385 
\l 63.U3) 5).211 
4.i 67.037 53 132 
4^ 71.446 6G.113 
4| 75.369 59.187 
^ 79.378 62.344 

5 83.510 65.585 
6J 92.459 72.618 
6.i 101. 080 79.370 
5i 110.429 .86.731 

_6 12».243 j_946W 

I'll'! wi'JHiil '1 !;iir lriinb«lii|;l; 

(.'act Iron - .M 

Sto.:!. \SA 

" " " Coppur, l.l« 



METALS. 



ruhppt. Thpniim. 
II iioimiN i'(iual7 2 
•2= 11.2 lbs., Ac- 



B IRON, &0. 



o 



91 



•0 



20 3 
23.2 
28.1) 
31.7 
40.4 
46.2 



ll'-O I 25.9 

21. H j 29.6 

'^•■- I 37.0 

315 44.4 

37.9 67.8 

«3.3 69.2 



IK AKD UOUND 



a 
o 
k . 

c 



a 
o 

c: a 
a." 
o 



4l3.'Ji)<J 3G.895 
5t) IM ! 39.390 
5S.j)40 41.934 
5t}.833 44.G37 
60.32;) 4; 385 
03.93) o).211 
67.637 53 132 
71.445 6G.113 
76.359 59.187 
79.378 62.314 
83.510 (35.585 ■ 
92.459 72.619 
101. 080 79.3:0 
110.429 .86.731 
|_12'>.243 _91:Gli 

wi!ight el !;iir lronbeln|!l; 
" " (.'iiht Iron -.* 
" " Stoo). 1.M 

" " Coppur, l.K 



\9«:iCllI'i' OF ttOUNj) AND fcQl.AKK CAST lUON. 
CAST IRON-— "Weight of a Foot in Lons-'h of Squaro and Round. 



SQUARE. 



Size. Weight. 



Inches 
Square 



1' 

n 
n 

I 

2.i 

1' 

9 



8 

3i 
4 
4i 
4" 

4'' 
4 
4 



ioundg. 

.78 

"• 22 

1.76 

'.^.39 

L'.12 

0.95 

4. 88 

6.!)0 

7.(^3 

8.25 

9.67 

lo.iiS 

12.50 

14.11 

LVSl 

17.02 

19.53 

21.53 

2;i';3 

25.83 

28.12 

3J.51 

33. 

o5.59 

41.06 

43.U4 

40.92 

60. 

53.14 

50.44 

59.81 

63.28 

60.84 

70.60 



Slzo 



Inchf's 
S<iuiiro. 



Weight. 



Pounds. 

74.26 
7H.12 

82.08 

80 13 

911.28 

94 53 

.).s.s7 

1' ;j :i2 

li'7 >»0 

112 50 

122.08 

i;jj(J 

1 12 .J8 

I.-.'. 12 

104. 'i5 

K5.78 

1-7.68 

21111.12 

212 56 

225.^8 

231) 25 

253.12 

2i;7.38 

2.'^2. 

*J.>7.07 

312.50 

3-.^. 32 

341.;. 3 

301.13 

378.12 

395.50 

413.78 

431.44 

450. 



ROUND 



Size. 



IllCll"9 

Diam. 



1 

if 

il 
¥ 



'4 
'4 

2f 
3' 
8 
3 

?^ 
84 

'4 

4 

4* 
4t 

t^ 
4^ 

H 
4 



Weight. .Size. Weight 



rounds. 



Inches 
Diuin. 



27 II 



I'ounds 

58..32 

01 ;i') 
;.|.40 

'7t;i 

vol '9 

^4.24 

77.05 

81 14 

84.71 

88.35 

95.87 

1' 3.09 

111.82 

120.26 

129 

138.05 

U7.41 

167.08 

107.05 

177.10 

187.91 

11) ..9 

210. 

221.50 

2.33 31 

245.43 

267.86 

270.59 

2.s3.i;3 

29'!. 1)7 

31 '.•i3 

224 .59 

.338.85 

353.43 



Size 



In. 



STEEL.— Weight of a Foot in Lonpth of Flat. 



Thiclf.! Thick, 
1-2 ill. ' 6-8tlis, 



2 
2i 



Thick, 


Thick. 


1-4 in. 


3-8tl)H. 


IMh. 


I'd.- 


.8551 


1.27 


.958 


1.43 


1.06 


l.,59 


1.17 


1.76 


1.27 


1.91 


1.49 


2.23 


1.70 


2.55 


1.91 


2.C'/ 



I'ds. 

1.70 
1.91 
2.13 
2 31 

2.55 
2.98 
3.4) 
3.83 



IMs. 

213 
2.39 

2 W 
2.92 
3.19 

3 72 
4.20 

4 79 



Side. 


Thick. 




1-4 in. 


In. 


IM.«. 


OL 


2.13 


"f 


2.34 


3 


2.", 


3i 


2.77 


31 


2.9.> 


3| 


319 


4 


3.40 



Thick, 


Thick, 1 


3-8th8. 


1-2 ill 1 


I'ds. 


IMs 


3.20 


4.20 


3.51 


4 08 


3.83 


5.11 


4.15 


5.63 


4.47 


5 98 


4 79 


0.38 


5.10 


0.80 



5-8tlis. 

Pds. 

5,.32 
5 85 
6.39 
92 
7 4.-. 
7 98 



% i i ; 



17 






* iv , £'■ 



II 



ii'f 



'> ! 



r 1 



WEiailT OF METALS. 
PATENT IMFPOVKD LKAD T\VV..-Sizcti and VTHght per Foot. 



Cullbru. 
Ifichiw 

i 



W.>k'l.t ' 

|(tT loot. 


c»m.i-Jj 


lbh.117.'*, 


llU'llCK, 


6 




8 


• 1 


10 


H 


12 


il 


1 


Jl 


1 8 


it 


8 


ti 


10 


II 


12 


it 


14 


} 


1 


t t 



iMclllW. 



Dm. o/.N, 

I 4 

1 8 

2 

3 
13 

1 U 

1 8 

2 
2 12 

12 
14 



w.ifriii 

(MT fool. 


l'i»Ulir<v 


Urn. <)7.H. 


liK-hiti. 


1 4 


1 


2 


• 1 


2 4 i 


li 


2 8 


II 


3 : 


■ < 


4 I 


* * 


1 8 ' 


II 


1 12 ' 


11 


2 


1 1 


2 8 


II 


3 


it 



Wtlfl.l 
|IIT foot 

Ibx, OXH. 

4 

6 

2 8 

3 
8 8 

4 
f. 
3 

3 8 

4 
4 8 



Calibre 


»> I'lKbl 




I'l'f loot 


ImliiN. 


li)r. in. 


11 


6 
4 


2 


6 


1 4 


(3 


11 


7 


2il-^ 


11 n 


3 !■= 


1.1 fl 


3K = 


iri 


, ■» = 


IS 


1 4J Z 


20 


1 6 


22 



SriEKT I KAT).- Weight of u Squnri' Foot, 2], 3, 3i, 4. 4i. 6, G, 7, 8»,9. 
10 IbH., and U])wurd8 



BRASS, COri'ER, STEKL, AND LKAV.-Weiffht o/a Foot. 





I{KAH8. 


OOPl'BR. 


BTEBL. 


LBAD. 


DlH'iintiT 


W.jtfht 


WolKht 


W.'iffht 


WrlKht 


WfiKbt 


WclKht 


W.'ljrht 


Weigh! 


Hint .Si(l(! 


cif 


of 


of 


of 


of 


of 


or 


of Squarv. 


Uoiind. 


Square. 


Round. 


Hquarc. 


Round. 
Lb". 


Square. 


Kouiid. 
Lbs. 


Siiutre. 


Inchon. 


I.lw. 


LbH. 


Lb*. 


1-bK. 


Lb«. 


LU. 






.17 


.22 


.19 


.24 


.17 


.21 








.39 


.60 


.42 


.54 


.38 


.48 










.70 


.90 


.76 


90 


.07 


.S5 






1 




1 10 


1.40 


1.17 


1.50 


1.04 


1.33 






( 


1.59 


2.02 


1.09 


2 16 


1.50 


1.91 






1 


2. 10 


2.75 


2.31 


2.94 


2.05 


2.01 






1 


2.83 


3.00 


3()2 


3.H4 


2 67 


3.40 


8 87 


4.93 


1 


3.58 


4.56 


3.82 


4.86 


3.38 


434 


4.90 


6.26 


1 


4.42 


5.(W 


471 


6. 


4.18 


6.32 


6.00 


7.71 


1 


5.3. 


081 


5.71 


7 27 


5.(16 


44 


7. .a} 


933 


1 


0.30 


8,10 


6.79 


8.05 


6.02 


7.07 


8.72 


11.11 


1 


7.47 


9.51 


7.94 


10.15 


7.07 


9 


10.24 


I3.(j4 


1 


8.00 


1103 


9.21 


11.77 


8.20 


10.14 


11.87 


15.12 


1 


y.9.^> 


12.00 


10.01 


13 52 


9.41 


11.98 


13.ta 


17.36 


2 


11.32 


14 41 


12.08 


15.38 


10.71 


13 v,;i 


15 51 


19.75 


^ 


12.78 


10.27 


13.04 


17. .36 


12.05 


1.').80 


17.51 


22.29 


2) 


14 32 


18.24 


15.29 


19.47 


13.51 


17.20 ' 


19.03 1 25. 


2| 


15.90 


2(.'..T2 


17.03 


21.09 


15.05 


19,17 


21.80 27.80 


2|. 


17.08 


22.53 


18.87 


24. (,'3 


10.08 


2121 


24.24 3(1.86 


2, 


19 .'-.0 


2^4 83 


20.81 


20.50 


18.;(9 


23 41 


20.72 34.02 


•)' 


21 40 


27 25 


22.84 


29.08 


20.18 


25.70 


29 a3 


37.31 


2ii 


23.39 


29.78 


24!t2 


31.79 


22.06 


28.10 


32.05 


40.81 


3 


25.47 


;;2.43 1 


27.18 


34.01 


24.23 


30.ti0 


34.90 


44.44 



C AS r 1 HON .- freight of 


a Superjtcial Foot from J to 2 inches 


thick. 


Hlte. 


Weight 

Pound-. 

9.37 
44.06 
18.76 


Jus. 
i 


WrI'-ht 


f Un. WclRht 


.size. 
Jus. 

n 


Wolrht 

Pounds. 

51 ,50 
50.25 , 
60.93 ■ 


Slzo 
Ins. 


Wflfrbt 


Ins. 

1 


rolUHIK. 

23 43 
'/H 12 
32.81 


lll.S. 

1 
:11 


Pounds. 
37 .W 

42.18 

40 87 
\8 


ri.iindu 

or).G2 
70.31 
75. 



'fight per Foot. 



Ill 

Hit 



Callhrv 


N* i.lirht 




I'lT li«iL 


— - 




liuh(">. 


lb.-. I* 


1! 


f) 


4 


2 


6 


'< 





41 


7 


2ilt 


11 


a 1 -i 


13 


3rr" 


\r, 


4 = 


IS 


4i Z 


; '20 


11 6 


'n 



4. 4i. 6. G, 7, 81,9, 



ffht of a Foot. 



?1 

IS 

<r) 
j,'j 
ti 
u 

10 
S4 
}2 
14 
57 

14 
>S 

la 

!0 
50 
17 
>1 
II 


lo 



LBAD. 




Lbn. 



3 87 
4.!I0 
6. (to 

7.;^ 

8.72 
10.'24 
11.87 

la.ta 
ir> oi 

17.51 
l!)i.ti3 
21 .80 
24.24 
20.72 
29 33 
32.05 
34 .iM) 



lU. 



4.93 

6.'26 
7.71 
933 
11.11 
13.04 
15.12 
17.36 
l'J."5 
2*2.29 
25. 
27.R0 
3().86 
34.02 
37.34 
40.81 
44.44 



to 2 inches thick. 



pht 1 


Slzo. 


Wclpht 


„ 






Ills. 


Ins. 


I'diindi 


.Mi 


11 


Givfia 


25 , 


70.31 


U3 . 


2 


75. 



C.\ST IRON COLUMNH. MOLDER's TAI>LE, 

DIMP:NSI()NS of CYLINDlJirAL COLUMNS OF TAKT IKON TO 
vSlJ.STAlN A I'KKSSLiUK WITH SAFETY. 



II 

OS- 

55 
1" 






I.K.NOTH oil 


rilOIOUT IN 1 


ITKKT. 








4 1 


1 


8 1 


10 1 12 1 


14 


16 


18 1 


20 


22 1 


24 








WKIOHT 


oil LOAD IN 


CWT8. 






72 


fiO 


4!> 


40 32 


20 


22 


IS 


16 


13 


11 


2i 


119 


105 


91 


77 


05 


5.5 


47 


40 


34 


29 


a-) 


H 


17S 


l.-a 


145 


12s 


111 


97 


84 


73 


64 


50 


49 


8i 


247 


232 


214 


191 


172 


150 


la-) 


119 


106 


94 


83 


4' 


32(i 


810 


2H8 


2m 


242 


220 


198 


178 


100 


144 


130 


4i 


4H 


I'D 


379 


a>4 


327 


3i>l 


276 


261 


229 


20s 


189 


fi' 


52*2 


601 


479 


452 


427 


394 


3ti5 


337 


310 


285 


202 


6 


(iil7 


692 


673 


550 


526 


497 


409 


440 


413 


380 


300 


7 


1<t:r2 


1013 


989 


959 


924 


887 


848 


808 


706 


725 


680 


8 


]m 


1316 


1289 


1259 


1224 


11X0 


1142 


1097 


1052 


1005 


959 


9 


17Hi 


1097 


1072 


1040 


lti(i3 


1501 


1515 


1407 


1410 


1304 


1311 


10 


2119 


21(10 


2077 


2045 


2007 


I'.'tH 


1910 


ISO;') 


1811 


1755 


109 1 


11 


2.-)70 


2orrf) 


a->2o 


24!K} 


24.50 


2410 


235H 


2305 


2248 


2189 


2127 


12 


3050 


3040 


3020 


2!)70 


2930 


2!)00 


2S,'J0 


2780 


2730 


2<i70 


'MV)0 



Practical utility qf the Table, 

.Vo/<',— Wanting to Hiipport llic front of aim ildinp with cast ironcolitniiia 
IS feet ill Iciifith, 8 iiiclics in diumctiT, and tlio metal 1 iiu':i i,n tliickiips.s; 
iviiut \v<'i;;lit may I conlidt'iitly expect each column capable of Hup))urtiug 
without tt'iideiicy to detlectioii? 

OnponUt! 8 inches dianirtor and under 18 feet=l(W 
♦ Also opposite G iu. dium. and iinih-r 18 leet— 440 



• Tliia deduction is on account of the coro. 
MOLDKR'S TAULK. 



=067 cwt. 



Bar Iron boing 1, 

Ca-'t Iron eijual .95 

Mct'l '• 1.02 

(Opjier " 1.10 

r.ras.x <• 1.09 

lm\ " 1.48 



Cast fron being 1, 
Rar Iron eijual I.07 
Steel " 1.08 

Iira.sH " 1.10 

Oopper " 1.21 
Lead " 1.5G 



Vt'llow Pine beinjj 1, 
('ast Iron equal 12. 



ItrasH 
CopiM-r 
Lead 
Zinc 



12.7 
133 
18.1 
11.5 



1. .*<up()oso I have an article of plato Iron, the weight of which i.s 728 
llw., but want the same of cojip^ir. and of similar dimonsious, "what will bo 
it.s weight y 

728 X 1.16 = 844.48 1b,^. 

2. A model of Dry J'ine weighing 3 lbs., and in which the Iron for its 
cflUHt ruction forms no material portion of tlio weight, what may I anti- 
cipate its weight to be in ca.«t iron. 

3 X 12 = 36 pounds. 

It ffpqnontly occurs, in the construction of models, that neither tho 
inalily or coiHlition of the wood can be properly estimat^'d; and in such 
c.^<('.<, it may be a near enough approxiniatiuu to reckon 13 lbs. of cast 
jrou to each pound of model. 

19 



il;l 



^ J 




Wi OD AND BAI.K MEASUREMENT 



.f 'l,< 



T: 



iIRs 



t]i-::i 



'S 






'S -r ■ 



c 2 -* s 
«■* 2.S i 

• •CJ "*" •"■* 

So >. 

^- ' 

..5 

X 






. a. • 
cJ "^ao 

^ ® 3 



♦JO" 

eS C ~ 

-0 = 3 
p — ♦J 

.■~o 



2«l li- 

r o - a. c j^ 
I K,«> £ :^ 






H 



,41 *-> 



... - tl 

.a«rl 

t" = f-l 

fee.:; 

a-' >. 



Oi TS ^ „ 

■^ O D ^ £ o 

(d p.a >.'^ £ 
o|5"a^| 

t! -' C •/: (i a 
jC--3'^ fc.2^ . 

(f^ i-.a ,,_-"r 

rt 3 rt 3 o ^ ...^ 

a i'~ S-c T*© 
iTi 5 c i- -;; .H ?3 

5 1 - -v" f c ♦- 



•V. 

1-' 

■M 


■^ CO "? '.a' 1-i >.t 3 i^C-'jo xlr. j/if ^ "^ CI CI CO ^ .^Tii^^?^ j^ 

s: -<> i- i.c — 1 - CI r -f --. i-.- »-< w CI Xi CO :ri 1.0 ; is ^1 rT;-"-?^" - 

•^ :o 't< ■<»< i.ti u-5 -J ■-£■ I- I- X Ci 3V i : -H — . CI » '.O f -" . ' r-! - ,- 

•* •^.-<^-*^^'— I'-^.-it-. — ».i^;::,lj 

^ c: ^. -*< - i.c — ci 1 - 17 X -h 3> i.o r:^ V •-! 1 - ?i ^> CO - .^ - .- 

• _; CO w^ 1-0 i.-i ■» » I- 1- X X i^ Jl l£ ^ ^ CI CI ?5 CO 4 i« r? -c v' 

i; --ll-CO-/: CO 3. -r3J 1.0 C <.•? — 1 ■C'-HI- M 1 - CO 'X '.0 - -*-,,»- 

•~ CO CO -i< ^ 1.0 1-; t^ ^: I - 30 X) c. 3> -- —■ CI M CO CO -• ^ i- •■^ 

■ ~ CO ;o i< -r ut i.o •— -.J I- 1 - X iO ~,^ c ~ 1-1 .-< ci ci c: "r .^ 1^. ;■; 

=: 5^.0 c li? ~ 'O r 1.5 c- 1.0 ~' 1.0 lO 5 1.0 c- m i.o c 1.0 - -- 
•-coco-JT ■"fiCi.o 5'Oi-i-xci5S35 5 r -Hf-iciri55c*^-».~ 

a 31 :* T' -<' '>^ W.'-J CO X CO 1 - CI I'. CI 1- CI 'B i-H •- — -i — ,.- - ,- 

;-; CI CO CO ■* .^ uO UJ » «: I- I- « X & 01 Ci 1-H -^ 01 f 1 ro rf .=■ - 

Cv I'^'r^t-^f^r^r^'r^,^^^,^ 

s:cr COI-C1I- — tc-Hi.o ; 1.0 T5 -»< t/coxcoi-ci I-.-1 -r — 1- - 

•^ CI CO CO f "^i 1.0 1-0 -w 31 I - 1 - I- X X 31 31 i — — CI 01 CO :•? i 


a 1- ci '- -H lb : ^ 31 CO xici 1-— 1 -2 c 1.0 31 ^x :oi-'*i — .- i- 

•-. CI CO CO •.* -^ L.0 1.0 1.0 :o cs 1 - 1 - X X .S 01 31 3 C' ~ — ci fi CO rJ 

.pcv,i§^^^3SS'i5rtss;'xS:g||22L-r;c^^ 
|l 1^"^ :^ 2? :?; .i ;S ;s 3 Is rt ,^3 .* 2. 2 S i 1 i ll [- r, 15 

^ -»• X 01 r r -f /: 01 c • ■.i- or ri -.^ c -« r> ri r ~ -f </ :i •- - 
•- CI CI 05 CO -rK -X -rio -x -^ 1 - 1 - X X X 3-- 3-- w r : - - f i 


•** 


a CO 1 - — '0 x" ci ■-- c -* -/• —1 1.- 3i CO i - — -* X 01 •^ r -f 1 - — i-i 

•~ CI CI CO CO CO f -1" 1-0 1.0 -c -3 -.5 1 - 1- X X X 31 ai - r z —-^ 

31 f-. .— — ^- ,-, 1 


s CI '.rn cj 1 - o -t< r — . .0 31 CI :5 CO 1 - '^ -1" T CI . r. r: ■. c : 
•S fi CI CI c4 CO -SI 4 •* 1.■^ ic J -0 1- 1- 1 - 3C X X 3-. 3- 3; - : -^ 

'.0 »-. — .—• 

c; -1 1.0 r 01 .0 31 ci -r C-. CO -r - coi-o -fi--^ -tcr —1.0 r :i,: 
■~ ciciciio coco-i" •*-f Oi.o i.t'.3 uoi-i-i-x X X 3; z.s-.: r 

CO —-■ 

K-;coi-rcoi-:coi--coi-cc5i-ccoi-'-coi-'"coi-r 
•S CI oj CI CO CO cj -fi -T -^ i5 i.o l.^ -.; ii !i I - 1 - 1 - x x -/. _•. .•. .-. : 
— 


a 3-. CI lo 31 CI 1 X -< -tl X — — 1 - r^ CO 1 - r, CO _ 3; .- 1 ■. •■ : ■ . j 

•«. r-l 4-1 CI CI CO CO CO ^J• -»• -^ i.O 1.0 -.S -.!> - 1 - 1 - I - I - J- •/ X - .-'. 

t: X --< -fl- - CO-.- 31 M lOX — -f 1-.— CO-C '^. ClLOX^H-til- - 1 
•^^ -<CI IJCIC.'CO CO CI rffr i~ iOi.0C5 -.i ■■Cl'.C. l-I-l-'X X'X 3.1 


a i-coj-ras — -til- — CO -.:> X — -»<i-oco..cx^ -fi-c oi.-J 
•- '^ ci CI CI CI CO ob CO -* -i" ^ •* 1.0 ® » w I- 1 - 1- X X X ] 

CO 


2 -.r 31 ■— -«< 1 - 31 01 1 ,5 > - C CO 1 X ri CO -.S 31 — -»• 1 - 3-. Cl 1.0 1 - " I 
•~ -H r-. CI CI CI CI CO CO CO f T ->• -tl UO 1.0 U3 uO W -.£1 "» X 1 - I - 1 - X J 


CO' 


a 1.0 X" ±.-sj"i.o X"— "■^ i.t ■*■ CO 1.0 X 0: co ft x <r: co 15 x r co ■.; 
•~ «r-icicicicic!5co rico -»<'*'-ti»tiOi.oioi.o«S'— » -.^i-i-i- 

s -f •r'-'i— CO -r- '/• r-coi-oi- -'ci -f i-;3i-<"-f -.r x — co"^.o"'x c 

•S rH 1-1 r-< CI CI Cl CI 'i ci CO CO -*< t"ti -t> -f 10 UO «.0 Ui « V5 ■; 1 - 

a CO 1- CI -f ^ X ~ CO lO 1 - s .— CO tr X i^ -1 -* "5 3) — CO ' * 

• i -^ r-i r-< c5 ij.1 C. CI CI CO CO CO CO W fi -f -t< ■* «S 1.0 lO iC « -c •- 
CO 

a 01 -f ■- x r ci -t< -.3 X — ~i -r -3 X — CI -.r -r X ~ ci -" 'X :r c 

.^ _ r-i -< r-i f 1 CI 01 : 1 CI CO CO ot CO CO -tl -t" -f -tl -f 1.0 1.0 lO lO •.: c 


e 

CI 


•3 -^ rH rl r-( rH CI CJ M CI CI CI CO CO CO CO CO »ti -r -»i -t ■*• lO 1.0 lit 
JK ~ CICO lO l-X C ?IC>t lOI-T — CieOiOI-XOOICOiOI-X - 

.5 r-1 r-( r^ f-i 1-H r-i CI fi d e^i w CI c% io c4 ci eo cot- -»< ->> f -« 1 1.0 

a CO Vr- 0. CO 1 ; ^ .^ 2 ^ 5J CO jt; ^ ^ 55 gj ->. ^ - ^ 1,; ,^ : 



1 


.Soci'i<ocDOON'»<«oxoow-«»t«>xoc>ci-t<<rr-o 

fH l-H 1-1 r- 
Jl r-i -- 1-1 ^ -H ,.-1 01 C CI CI CI CI CO CO CO CO CO CO >* "tl -11 tl .11 -fi 1 - 



J, ^ O — - P 









■■-.53 



Efimple, — Unw niiuiy Odrdn of 
v(7cmI ill a pill' n't IV'ct louf?, ioet 
lii^jh luul 4 loot wldt'l" 



2» 



CO 

t 

300 
4 



128) 1440 llj amh 



VALUE OP WOOH AND BARK. 



- ; 1 y, w"--. -r ■ \7. 
1 ?-s M -r •«> ■* c -^ 

: r '^ £v 2 rv ir: - 
-" CI Ti c? -r "t I.*. I": 

S — > lO C «.T ~ 10 C 

-I •.•! ri o? :c f -f 1.-. 

■H -r- — -r — 1^ = 1.- 
1 rH ri ?i re ^ -I- •* 

-M f— < »— * r^ r-" I— I » 

-Ml-rt ■■£ rl'',Z 
Z: '-' •— 01 rm '.< ■*■ 

rt<cj: roi-Ti'r^ •- 1.' 



2 i^ "l" -i^ " ' T »"■ 



J- »rf ~-' - ■- _ "* • 1 



CO J-. a> ~ - - — 



CK X Ji 'T- CV w_ : ■;; 
J. X X j; -• 3"- ^ ;i 

I - X X X _'. -•• r. _^ R 
i-i-i-xxx - r. 
•i i-i-i-x X /. *• 



ii.ricrji-it i-c ^l■ 
; C! X' -x X 1 - 1 - 1 - '^ 



sav '- M >Q X - « '.t 

r-f - X — c; 15 /. t 

5 »6 i.-ric « '- w - ' * 

T <— . M ■^ "O :^ 7; fi ;Z 
h iS iO >a lO >c !. - -^ 



P 'J? CD o ri -r <^ X 5 



- T- o -M » .2 1 - jL t 
cc -1" •!< -r -t -" T ... 

T^ V'^'*f nr 5i "^ ^^ '*' '" 



m;??]c?«j*'^^ 



xo o «•*•*.« ■^'- 

W CC -^ 'f* -^l '»''>"•" " 

60 

r> 

3(i0 
4 



i 

1 














If 4- ^ 






* S.ia 






c 5 






fc P ►" 






S ^ 






^ .s 






-- 






♦^ -< rj 






(»<£?: 













I. £ 






^ «* £ 
a. 2 § 






5 « 










c — «-• 




• 


3 « 






c S £ 




« ■^ 




C 






c 


^ rt "^ 




5^, 

< 


1 * 

e -e .y 




i •r" fc. 






'- ps A 




H 


c ^ 




U 


^ " '- 




u 






(« 




a 


c tt'-' 




u 


* - 




(u 


5^ <- -3 




Ui 


fe .i a 




U 


»-'*■« 




< 


.=, X ;^ 







c a, <« 




ft 


4 s. a 




< 


— fc. 




H c -5 




Q 



c 


§1i 




^ 


,-. a a, 
2 ■ 'o 


1 


b 


a 





*C3 -4-^ a 

c2 2 


■ m* 




a 


^ 
< 
> 


0^2 
-= X 2 




■a 




** «■• 5 


T) 




*j 1-1 ■»- 


M 




a ^ 


i-S 




73 . 

2 ^ 
■/■. 

/2 <2 

^ *■ e 


2 




'" a, a 






li'^ 


X) 



k 



n '- i 9 



so -.£> CO — < Ja I - IQ 19 O CTj lO w •♦" C CO 1.1 >■-< CV C I - -J CO C: C I i.": 5 

1-1 J.} CO CO in* » I- 1- (M ..; CO lii r-1 1 - j> ■_) _ t- CI ;; is a, 1 - i 
r-i '- c-i ri If' 1- ^; rf o »rt c I- 1- 1 - './: o 



5J 



I- -f M c I - o 71 CI I- ■* cv x ?; r «,o v: .-1 i.o i.': ci i< 1- CO t-i -. s 

rl W CO W ■«' »0 «* <0 I- 1— r(< w^ « -. O 1. » "1" 1 - !-> Js t- r-i •»> 33 10 
i-l — < M M 01 CO ?5 't" -f I.- '.t C 1 - I - Xj 3V 

' - -f ^ X ijj oi".:! V. CO ~- CO -< — i.T — X ; 1 1-1 r co -is cc ..o c-. r - c- 

ri 5^ (.N CO "J^ "^ IN Ci I- r-i T rl (.^ X '.'5 i.l ffj i.i C VJ W I- O C/l O 

__—''-it-i 7j ricoco -f -f -i<io a '.^i-i-oj 

"^i- CO o i- CO o"']? CO =. ^.5 « CO C-. :o - n .-1 x 1 -j 17 — £ r/ ,j. ..c o 

r-lflMeOtifloSSwciOSjir-tfir-lCOJiC.itiilCnCO'^-^lfl 

r- -H ,-( M M CO CO CO -♦< •♦< lO uO WJ3 I - OC 

i» CO ■..:, <s — 25 "^ Q ^ 1^ 2 "^ X 5 — — CO ir; .5 a c CO c i.O O O 
rH r ■ ,^l CO W f «o O O 5 C-1 X i 10 O I-. I - S CO 2 « 5 &-< 2^ c 

r- --I -^ e-i 01 CO CO CO -^ »* «c i« rrv 1 - X 

«D iM ac CO 0> lO <-i I- cc OS T I - -c> X t -. CO ri i.t r C5 1 -co *£ t o 
i-< I— 1 N c^ CO ^ f k. ' o J5 — I- X 03 a; 35 L.-! I - r-i ^ fi '-iP X i.i ir; 

•-I i-i »- M w 01 CO CO "i"** ^ uo i.^ -.ri - 



^ 
.- 



Irf oj CO I - 1-1 '.o o -t 0} eo 35 !» C5 /: 01 " i.t X >.o — -f I - CO ~ I— c 
r-> >-. W CI CO CO CO ^ (» 00 C< O I- O r-i O I- C Ti X .— CO X ift 
»-t — — 01 01 1-1 M CO CO CO -J" -^ -" i.t 

%*< X 71 'i. >-< U5 35 CO 1- rt" «e 01 CO "H -t I - >o tr CO I - sr. J5 "t c cr. ic 

r-i 1-1 I>l «>4 n CO CO ■^ ;C 00 (M CS ti 55 O •»< » X i ) S S5 ri ... C4 

I.- 3 I rH — •-(rHMc-iMe'. coc^eo -^if iC 

C> 'iti do e^ w i'co i- -> >o o» CO .» I- ic -r. X o -t< o CO CO — ■ .r r- a ■:: 

'^ <-if-lC-ir^MC0C0C0»l-f-iC^l.0XC5««Ol-r-ii.^l--. ;jw 

— — rH rH r- 01 M 01 CJ CO CO CO — >.0 



to rH 1- CO CO -t o 'O '-» 1- -" CO :: — • 1 - ci co C" c; eo z ••>■ x -f i.o 

rHr-(C^C'leO"»<"»U3»a*rHl..jCjCll-Xl>;-3C5torH.«r'— eOI^ 

_ rH rH -H c>i o-j c^ CO CO CO »»• '.O' > V 1.0 'O 1- 

la rH «> CS I- CO CC "f 35 1.5 X .35 t 1.'; 35 CO CO X r CO rr J I Iff I . CO c 
r-rHtNIMCOCO'«»<»J<lSX«Cil-rHQ5l-ff4li3XCOC5..-rrHi 

__ '-|-^•->i•^rlt^n7r"::■^'^'ir.^'JiJ^~ 

U3 C; U3 O l3 O W rH tc rH — c-i Ol ."O c-: -r -f I -• 1.: ut T 1 - CC rj, 015 Q 
rHr-,5|cleiicO'J<'HU3XOl«U:>C'<r>iai5'<uj.iuOXOtOi5 

_ __ _ _ r-1 rH r- 01 H r» CO CO CO 'I' -t •♦< 1.0 >.-? CO 

UI C UO'C -f C^'-tl 35 -»""35 1; X tr- IT i.t «0 -r CO CO C 1 — :n 3; X I ^ lO 

-Ht-ld(^lc^roco»»<'*^l-35«1<l3.35CO-r33'-lT^35Co;sx'■«rc^ 
>- i-H rH 1 ; 1 01 CO CO CO -r- 1- '^ i."? tc 

To 35 r». 35 CO or. CO'x M"i» i.0~^<"-< O X i.O -f rn — c/ i.T O) (T ^. «; o 

rH rH ei i-1 03 CO .<»< '^ I - 35 ■»< O J. ;< .0 X Ci i » 1 • CN O O (.-I C 

PH 1-1 rH M 01 e-l CO CO CO -f -^ -»< UO -J" 



< I - rH -J. X rH l.O X) IM '.O ^O O >/5 CO r- 135 t? — l--; -r^ rH ir X (M 5. O 

rH rH T-1 01 01 *J CO CO 1.0 i - O — •*• W I- rH CI .^1 X r^ CO 10 Cr. O 
rHrHrHrHrHC^OIIMOIOOCOCOCO-*' 



coi- I C'O I - -: CO I - C 59 "^ '~ "^ '*■ CO o '- 35 CO e^ vr 35 35 c-j c 1 i.o 
— ,., rH c* (M (N c^ ci5 1.: »o - c CO S X 35 —! CO w a> —1 cot - c-i 

rH rH rH rH rH — 01 01 01.01 '.O CO CO f 

~eO«3"dj CC'O 35 !?1 ^ 00 rH O CO :3" i- i.O C V X O 3. ..: rn r. CO c c 
" rH — S N N (N CO S '.^ «> w> 1 1» is X O rH lO X i- '-I i.V C 

rH rH rH rH rH CI (M CM 01 CO CO CO »*• 



CO 

o 

V-l 

CO 

g,' 

CO 
01 

oi_ 



— rHrHr^r ..«*<»C1C1C1C0C0 



ec lii 00 o eo lO X .c CO lO rH rH ?o r 4 01 CI I - 7 J cr ' ; t; 35 -f "J ,'^ I'c 

' "^ SrH — r-^K.-'lCI'tKOl-X OC101lO'.4l-w ..(-i-iOXCI 

rH rH rH f-1 rrj-< c;^| r-l 01 CI 01 CO 

"cTib i- 35"oi'-i<'o'3r— "^00 1- o >o 2! CO X o o n; ». ci 1^ ;c co c 

^^ ^ rH rH — CI CI M f I- I- OT rH rH ^ O •* X r-i C4 CO C- .;; 

r. rH rH rH rH rd OIJ?! W OICO 

C« Tjl WOD^ Sl"^ '£• X- ;' rHoTsseOX 1< X I- iC 1 - --V '■£■ X 'C 75 c. 
"^^^"^— ii3rHr;rHS5cOWuOtil-3535r.^cU-OiOl-X.35rHu: 

rHrHrH^-ir-JrHrH Oiri 

Clr.\oi^c»rHC3-!.;oj;;X.igo5gc-5Xg=oc5-xg;r.^^^ 

rHrHrHrHrHrHr-rHCJ 



c^cous«o«05-co;2.jcu5rHt,gjgl2ffSi.Sci5;S:::i' 



^H f»< t^ 



o 
o 

-I CI CO 









3! 



it 

It, 



C/ J, 






at'' 



1 -It' t 



OISTKIINS — HOREWS — CUBIC OK HOLID MEASURE. 

(;.M'A( ITY ^iF f'iSTF.RNS AINI) KKSKKVOIRS IX (iALLONS. 
Depth, 10 Inches :— /iiaiiiitcr/roin 2 fo li') I'(.r<. 



tf.'l 



•n 
4 



ao.ii 

44,ii'i 

7s,;j.i 

{)9.U 



<i 
tji 
7 
7i 



fcft 1224(1 
Its. 10 
" 17(1.25 
" 20().8o 
" 2.'?'J.HH 
'• 276.40 



8 

y' 

10 

n 



f.'Pt 313 33 12 

" 3.-hJ.72 13 

' 3'J().r)G : 14 

" 4t;i.40 ! 15 

" 4^0.20 ! 20 

" 5'.t2.40 I 2". 



fcpf 



7o:,. 

IK lie, 
l!(r,-!4 

3U5'J.'J 



NUMREK OF THUKADS IN V-THRKaL SCREWS. 



Diaiii. ill iiichos ^ 

N >. .it ilirt'iuls 20 



18 



IG 14 



12 11 



D;.iiii ill inclioH 1> If IJ Ij! 2 2} 

No. (.f tiufiids 6* 5 6 4i 4i 4 



i I 

10 'a 


1 1 

8 


^' 


2-1 3 

8i ; 



1! 



3i 3i 



l)i 111, in inolicrt 3^ 4 

No. oi ilirt-ails 3 3 



4f 






4? 

•>3 



5 5f 

*'4 -8 









13 
G 



6 



Tho ili'jitli of the threads shoii!!' be half their pitcli. Tho diamolcrof a 
sccsv, to work in thcticlli of » vvhtol, Miould bo smh, that theanglo of 
the liireudM does not i xcecd K)'^ 

CUI.'IC OR SOLID MKASURK. 

To liiid til"' ('iit)icii! (oiitciit in a Slid: i>f 'riin'icr. lilnck of Shv.ir, /i,tr, 
Jiiv,8ic. If all llif Diiiii'iisiouM art' ill iM'cf, iiiiilii]ily the hi n!,'th ly llie 
iJn adth, and tliis product by thj Ocpih to obtain tho iiiniibur of ('ubic 

jMct, 

11 tli<> Length i.-< ill Ftct mid (ho uidth and d<']it]i in iiu'lies, ;iiiilli|,iv tho 
Iciijcili by I 111' widlli :r.ni tliis I'luduct !)■, I lie di'iith 'ii iin'hrs, - lli(Mi(ii\ jiio 
till- la.»t I'l-i! 'net by 1 U fur the (Jnliii- I'l-fl. If all llic IHim-ii-ion'^ iirt' in 
l<"i'ci uiiil Iii(!!"N rt ilncc till' whole to Inches, I hdi ninlli]ily the l.riij;!li, 
Unadlli and Deptli togeliior.aiid divide the I'mduct by 1728 to «)bt;iiii llio 
Cubii- IVet. 

I»ii|iiirid the nninbcr of cnbic feot in a Ikw, sioiii, &c., 4^ Ibct Ijuj?, 2} 
f»H>t '^•'idc and 2 lin't deep? 

4f. X 2.6 X 2 = 22i cuhic/ret. 

To find the capacity of a i>iii, i-isterii . f'linitr's vat, itc, (iiid its (iiilerier) 
cubic contents in iiiflivx. by the iirecciiin;,' rule.-, then if the ca|iatuly lio 
reiiiiireil in. r/f/V/oHs', lb', ide the whole number ufinches by 2;il; — if ia 
bushels, by 21.')<I.I2, or, il' in heaped bnshi'N, by 2717 70. 

Or, if tlie interior ot a cixi' l>in be 4 feel in li'iij,'tli, 41 iuchos in breadth, 
and 32 inches in de|»ih; then, 

■i y 41 X 32 X ■(M(V,i4 :-.- 3t)i cubic fe<'t. .-- 2000 lbs., or 1 ton of Reaver 
Meadow or I.ehi;;li Coal. 

1 ("iibio l"'oot (if re;ii'h Mountain Coal, brol<en or screened for Stove'*, 
weijrlis 54 pounds, and n-iiuires 37 <!iibic feet of space to stow one tun ol 
20(N) piiunds. 

Coal is boufrlit at whok.iale at the rate of 2240 |)oundH to the ton, and 
sold at retail at the rate nf 20oO pounds lo the ton, uTa-netl. 

Or, if the inlerior of a cr»6 be ()] Jeet in len;{tli, 3] feet in brcadtii, and 
Si foot in depth; then. 

0-5 X 3 75 X 3 25 X -80350 = *i3(i522 (or 03^ bushels and i peck,) 
Trie Solid Contents of all bodies, which an* of iinifomi bijrness lhnia;;h- 
out, wbate\er may lie tho Conn of theend.s id fouini by miiltlplyii.),' tlie 
area of oiu^ end into its hei)_'!it or length. 

lit inche-' ei|iiai ( ) 1 scpiare fiiol, (ur, <irt <i .) 
1728 iiiuhcii equal ( — ) 1 cubic tout, (or, .•>i>Ud toiUcnts.^ 

22 



lSUUE. 

lALLONS. 



foot 



',K,. 



4 * 


HUT 


\ 


• 1 


v,ir,>4 


sWS. 






7 


11 

7 


G 


1[ 


=51 
3i 


3i 

a} 

6 


ditimotiT iif a 
at tlwaii^li' <>( 



of .S'Ai.'K', /<i)r, 
L( inj;lh 1-y tli« 
inilitM- ot ('ul)itt 

ics, iimltiiiiv th(> 
i,s, -lln'iiiliviiii' 

1Ul•n^i'>"" ;"■'' '" 
,lv tin; 1/ii^'tli. 
T'iH toubt-iinllK' 

, 4J loct l'-»iij,', '^J 



11(1 its (iiitcriorl 
111' i-apiif.ily lio 



1 

ichi's ill breadth, 

ton of Ueavcr 

■iicd t"<ir StoViM, 

stow DIIC tllU 111 



!<l 



to th<! toIl.llUfl 

,1. 

ill broadth, uud 



and f pocU.) 
Mtriif-s thiMiiijli' 
nudiiplyii't; '■"' 



jiitcnts.i 



Ari'KNDlX TO ''THE AUTIZAN'8 GUIDE/ 
ON CORRESroN]JENCES. 

Hy rf'fi'r('iici> to page 20.') it will bf soeu that sometbinjr was stated r^pard- 
iiij; coiit'spoiidcnci'S, togotlier with an jillusioii to th«^a|4MMidix for t'arthur 
inloiiiiiition. The aniplitudi' uftlu> subject boiiiK very n^'at, no muri' can 
lie pniiiiis(<l Ihtc than a very abridj.M>(l Hlatemont by way of illustrutioii. 
>'iii iiciii;,' aware that tho wubject ha-» ever been alluded to in connection 
wiili ii work of this kind, perhaps -iouie will bo inclined to attach a certain 
aiiioiiiit of bhuiK! on account of introducing it, here, as thero ia appareiitli/ 
Init \ury sli^'ht relationsliij) between the Bubjects treated of throughout 
tlii" \Mirkand the topic under consideration. Hut inasmuch as it is believed 
tliiit its colisideration will fulfil a much needed use and eomiuand the ap- 
jirtplmlioii of all good men, the censure of others is but littlo regarded iii 
ciniipiirison. I'lirthormore, the di>crtpancy is only apparent, for manv 
things mentioned in this book, togetih-r with thousands ol other tilings, will 
iiu comprehended just i'l jiroportion as correspondences ar(* understood; 
(•i.ii-<«iui'iitly any <'llbrt tliat tends to dissipate tlie obscurity, and enlighten 
tilt' darkness, with which, tiHreuards this subject, many mmds are becloud- 
(li, must bo productive of good, while tho knowledge In question will 
eiiiilple us to account for many of the phenomena of tho visiole creation, 
Hiicli iisclieniiciil allinities, the constitution and ((uidlties of different kinds 
el' iiictal, and their at;tioii on e;icli other, besitles sug^^esting innumer- 
alilc iiistniclive tiiouglits on other interestingtiuestionsot a purely natural 
kiiiil : nevertheless tlie writer desires to statu that his motive forcoiisidering 
till' subjict in this pltice, is a desire to give a few examples of the working 
III' till- principle as an niinerring rule in unfolding th(; true meaning of tho 
Siicied writings, for strange as the assertion may appear to many, thu 
iiiiiiniii;; ot tlie Divine Word as to its true or intfiual sense, can Lu evolved 
ill no othi'r way. It stiould be known thattho \Voki> being Divine, is coin- 
im-ii'd ill a manner dillorent from all other writings whatsoever, Innng 
wriilcii by pure correspondences, lor which reason, through the use of 
(■iiililiiiis, symliuis, types, and rejnesentatives, it coutaum and embracett 
within its bosom things which n-gard the Lord, his heaven, the (Jliurch, 
iiiiui, II ml the tilings of love and faith, even when such subjttctsdo not in tht 
Ica^t sippi'iir in the letter while it is being read, for it is a Divine truth, tha' 
till I' an' iiidelinite things in each expression of the U'ortI, which appc^ars 
to iniiii Fo simple and rude; yea, there iscontained therein more than man 
can I'vei comprehend, because it is the embodiment ot Infinite wisdom, 
ami is as to Us inmosls, th(« Lord Himself, John i-1., Uov. xix. 13. Treat 
Willi the utmost revi'rence therefore, 1 pray 5'ou, whatever haa relation tt. 
the Word of tioi), for by so doing you do honour to that Sacukd Namb 
which should never be taken in vain. Of all the abounding ini(|uiti(>H of 
MH-iely, none are more destructive of tho germs of goodness implanted by 
(iiir Ibiivi'iily I<':ither in man's heart, and none ministers less gratification 
til the dejiruveil cravings of fallen man, than the profanation of the Namm 
iiml \Voiii> of tho everbli'SBed (ioi). Let every one discountenance thin 
u|>iiiilliiigeniirmity, an<'i bewari'of it is as he would shun eternal ruin, not 
mily on account of' its infamous character as a sin against iiui>, but alHo 
out 111 ('0111111011 regini for the feelings of our neighbours. 
>• I 111' siieiic)' of correspondences unfolds those spiritual law.s in ftccordancn 
with which the woril of (iod is written, fhe word correspoiideuce in 
ill ri\iil from the Latin terms con and nsjionilec, and means, radically, to 
ttiisui'i with or to agree. It will serve our purpose here to define it as tho 
apiM':ir;inii't)f the ititiTiial in the external, and its repre.sentation there; in 
ulhiM words, internal and spiritual things are mirrored forth and repre- 
'i'liti'il in external and natural forms. The \Voki> throughout, is written 
v.iih a constant reference to an exact and immutable relation between 
*iiiriiii;il and natural tliingu. Various descriptions arc there given of tho 






APrENlJiX TO TilJt; AUTiZA:-'K (JUIDE. 



( ti 



'\ h' 



Vh 



\ 



!i'. 



t 



0UII, moon, and Rtarp; f)f tlio t'urtli with he. ;i.o\inwint>, talU-yf and riv«'ri ;, 
of incn.anim&lraiKi {ilaiits, K'^l'i s^'xl silver, bra^iH aud iron, and a tlioiiMunl 
otiicr tbiuprs whicli aj)t«'ar in tlio natural world. In all ttn^c dcscrii liui.u 
tlutru iH acoi>stant roun-nco to tlioinl«'rnaland wuiritual cuiist'M fruiii wlilth 
tlioao thiiif;i; cxiHt, and to whicli they corrcnpond. I'ho Wokd, in iti- liicial 
eonso, irt tlius wrought tom'thor with in Unite nkill, const itutinjj ajicrniaiu ut 
r«'(M>j)ta<;lo oldi.inc iini) Hjiiritual thinnH. Within arc tlm living iiriMipicH, 
tilt! spirit and/i/f of tho Word, of which it is caid, "The wordwl .-pi uk uniiy 
you, thuy arc Sfiiht ?x<d thoy are /ij'e " John vi. (ly. The Hclciice of ci,ric>- 
pondcuccs if to the Word of (i(>i> what the inatlieinutioal .-ciuncu is to tlm 
jdieiioiiioua of tlie niatiriii' iiniverw. It reveals <irder, harniony, heuuly 
and l>ivine jfurfectioii 'u the rddst of what seemed to Lo disnulcr, umcr- 
tainty, ine.vt''icablo confusion an;! '_■>.".:■: contraiiiotlon, !t is a iin.-l 
melancholy spoctacle at this day to see prulessed ex|iouiideru of the W- nt 
tell their h(!an!rsthat the ISihle is full of errors, that such and sui:li pashufjes 
contradict each other, and then proceed lortlnvith to coiiuiuinicate a va>l 
omouutof oruditesel'-derivcd intullij;eiice in th:> shape of {^losses, (;oinnients 
and »!Xphiiiutiuns, with the only el^'ect of cuusiiift real confusion where tlnK- 
iievor was any, v/hllst a knowledge of this tn.-avenly science, for such indiid 
it JH, would Uuvu i.'uubled tbeiu to harmonize ail appun-ut diacreimuciuK at 
ouco. 

A'ot 'io wore the men of the most Ancient Church doBcrlhed in tho^e 
Divinely composed allej^orios in the lu'^'inningof <;cntisis, pn-viiuis to Una 
uwtUl apostacy and declension from ffooiiness de.-«;rlhed yudor the lepre- 
HiMisatiou of a Hood wliich sweiit over the whole earth. I'hey were ^.-ildd 
with Hucaan intuitve kiiowl>'dj;efron. ' ive, that they couhi as It wen. read 
<jOd'H w<.rd in His Works, and learn and think ot heavenly Ihinjjrs lliMiii^di 
and by means of the (ton tern |)hu ion of currespiindin>< earthly thiii;;s. I'nr 
example, when with the natural eye they l;eheld a m<iunt4iiii, in.Hlaidly Dm- 
emotions of their mindh would as.-uiistM ciiiTespoiidiii^; elevalinn tuwavl' 
tli(> houi>, for by a mounluin in themwst y\ii('ii nt (hnnli wassi'.'iiilii d iiie 
IjOUI>, and all tliat is celestial from liiin, a.^ the /;o<id of hive and I'liaiity, 
tilt! most ancient jieople, and ail the ancients, e\i'ii th.tieiit lies, w»r- idj>pi i', 
on mountains from this orii;in. ileini it in writi^ n, " I will lilt up .uiin- 
eyes to the iiiounldius (or hills), from whence coineth niy helji, my Ip'Ip 
coineth from the Louu, which made heaven and earth," l'>. c.wi. \\r 
may see from this the trin- reason wh>' th • hlessti^ 1{ki»kic.mi;ii tau^dil 
Iho iHH)|ile from mountains, ascended up into hi;{h mountains, and ahodn 
in niouii tains to such an extent a.. ii recorded -of llini in th.- j^iSpels. I'lr 
the sake of farther illustration it may be; propter ii* this place to adduce a 
harmony of passafjes wher;; mountains ar.^; inentioind, tt»'elher with the 
iuternal tense .-i^nilied hy them. All tht fd/^h .v(o((»i/<t</i«cov"rd with tlm 
waters of the Ihuid (den. vii, I'J.) demtte;. that all the floods ^ 1' charily wen; 
extinguished hy falses aud penunuions (d' tlu false, or what is the sauie, 
overllowiiif? wickedness. Tnc ark ri' Noah reslin;< upon the mmiu/'iiiis of 
Ararat, [(ien, viii, 4, !'i\, denotes the lirst li^^ht after ti-inidation, which i.s 
from charity. I iio children of .Shem dwelling? from .Mi-siia, as tliou j-ue.-i 
iinto Sephar, Amount of the east. ((ien. x ISO ). don>i*es wornhiji from lln^ 
truthH of faith extending to tin! };ood of charity as :tj end. Ai>raliaMi.s 
removal unto a mniiiifnin on tli<M-ast of HetheU<ien, xii H), lemdes tliu 
'.'rogressitjii of celestial love with which tin- LoiiD was imlmed in iiduncy, 
for by Abraham in the wonl i.s reprt'sented the I,(>ui< a.° to the divine celes- 
tial principle, or divine f/ood. They thai reinaincvl (lyi'in t.« "hei/um/i/id/i.v 
after Abraham's victory in Siddim jdeii. xiv ID), denolt .s rtie l.iv; of self 
ntid the world against which the l.oiii) fought from his lovo for tiie whole 
liuman nu'v. Lot said to ascend from ioar and dwellinf in r cave in iIki 
miiiintain{(i:'U, xix, 3l.'1 denotes ♦hf rhscure g.'od of Ihnso who urc wiiii- 
out <he trntlis of faith, .lacob su-i r.icing a »-•.;•■•' 'ioe in the inoantu.n doi. 
Kxxl.M), denotes worship fromthe Rood .n lo«v. '.riit- angel 'd' 'he l..ii;i> 
appearing t<^ Moses in tlu) ///«>»«/ of don (I",\ ill. 'J- ), deno'eNth^ diNiin' 
liuinan manifested in the good of love; ye shall .'crve dod upon this iiit>un- 
tain, Haid to Moses {l',\. iii. \2j, denotes the perce|)tion and acknowled.'c- 
juont of the Divine from love. Mosi's to stand on the top (d" the«ioii;i/ willi 
the rod of (i(>i> in his hand, during the battle with Ani^ ek, denote> llie 



AI'1'ENI>1X TO TUE ARTIaaNS' OUIJJJ;.. 



3 



Bi aim nvcri J, 

d H tlliill>IUIii 

' ilt'M;ri|.liiji.y 
N frijiii wliicli 
1, in ith liirriil 
', H |it'rii>aiit'iit 
iiKpriiu'iiili-.s 
H I : |ii uk iiiil>; 
net' 11*' curjo- 
I'liL'i; i.> Iv tilt) 
iiio'iy, tii'uuly 
>unliT, uiitcr- 
: t is u iiiiisl 
1 ..f ttic \V- lit 

tiiiicutc it vu>t 
w^, t:i)iiiliii'lit.>t 
III wlicrt' tlnii; 
rt*iicli iiidicl 
acri'iiuiieii.? ill 

\h(n\ ill tlKiM' 
•(•villus tit llml 
dor till' ri'jifi'- 
cy were friitiil 
iif. It wcn-.ri'iul 

liiifis tlii(iu>.'h 
y tliiiij.'s. liir 

, instantly tin- 

atiiiii towii'/ 1> 
[i.s hiirnitiiii iIh' 

• llIKi iliuiit> , 

'.H, WOl- •li|i|l' >' 

1 lilt up .iiiiH' 
Ih"1|i, my lull' 
r.-.. cx.\i. Wr 

iKK.MlCU tillinllt 

jus, and alioili' 

• guHpi'ls. I'l r 
iCe to aiMncc a 
■ttlicr Willi tliii 
iV'T'd Willi 111" 
' 1' charily win, 
lat is till' ^alll< , 
(• iiiKiiul'iiiis uf 
atiiiii, wlii'li '•< 

I, ,(S lliiiii H1M'>1 

irslii|> IViiiii llii' 
(i. Aiiraliain's 
H), 'it'iiiitt's tliO 
iiii'd ill inl'aiii'y. 
lu'iliviiii' (I'll ■*■ 

• 'hvUKlUlltlllli.l 
rtlC I.IV.'OI' self 

o fi>r the wlioli' 
III !■ cavo in Hi" 
') whi' ur.' witli- 

KOKH/a.'U (il'll- 

ifclMfit.^ l."i;i> 
iiiU'.s til • .liviiii' 
11)11111 this ;/(i'ii(i- 
d uokiiiiw!ril;«'- 
r \\i{>m<nint with 
»-k, iK'ni>t.'> tlK-' 



i.iim H'lod; Isriu'l pn".-allinf» vvlicn Mos(.i raisod Ids hand and Amnlck 
|)ri'\ ailing wlicii ho let dnwii his hand, dcnotos that tlin victitry is with 
thiiv who :vrt' in the fiiith and ;,'<iod of laitli wlit'ii tlioy look upwards to 
thr l,oi:i»; hut that the false ovt'icoincs tlu'iii when they look down to self 
and tin; world, lor Aiiialt-k r<'|in'si'iits ititorior evil. Israel to he |)laiited 
in till' niouit'iiiii, ofthe huuii's iiilu'ritaiice, (Kx. xv. 17.) deiioteH re^'iiera- 
tiiiii, and In-jveii, froni the lilo <>t truth uiid goodness. The IsraeliteH 
('iiraniped at the mo/iu/ of (ioD' Kx. xviii. .'i), di'notesthe iiewarraiifiemeiit 
lit Inillis wlii'uahoiit to lie conjoined with i^ood in the <ecoiid ^ta;,'eof 
i(';,'i'ii('ralioii. The l-ouD c.iiiie Ironi Sinai, lie shone from muiiiit I'araii 
( Hi'iit. \xxiii. 2), denotes the proceed lire of Diviiej truth or the law, from 
Mivine j?ood. 'i']w minmldiiis lilli'd with horses and eliariots of lire round 
aliiiiir KlislniCJ Kin;,'s vi. 17), diimte.-, doetrinals good .iid true fioiii the 
1. 1. id. file iwuntdins shall briii;<peaceand the littli' hills hy righteousness 
(!'s. Ixxii. •']), denotes love to the Lord and the iii'inhbour, sikIi a.s it was 
ill till' most aiiuiuiit church. I'poii every lofty inountnin, and upon every 
lii;.'li hill, rivers and stii'anis ot wiiti-r, (Isa. xxx, 2;')), denot<.< the j^ouds of 
luve and charity, uiid tin* truth.. of faith from them, for, ri\ers and strrams 
el water si;,nify triilhs ; like oin- nn'u^ to the iinniutdiu of the J.iiui), to tin' 
Mi;,'lily ( tne ot Israi'HIsa. xxx. 'Jil), deiiotcH the Lui:i> as to tin' nood of 
love and Hie Kood of (-liarily. del thee iiji into the high iiiDiiultiiii, lilt up 
lliy voice with stren^'fh (Isu xl. 'J; xlii. 11), denotes tin- worship of tlio 
I, Hid from love. He that piiiteth his trust in me shall possess tlmland, 
and shall iiiln'rit my holy iiiniiiituhi, ( Isa. Ivii. V,i), denotes the Lord's Kiiig- 
tl'iiii whiTeall is love and charily. I'he glory of ilie Lord ii|iiin tliu »i>ia/(- 
/'«!/( east ofthe city (K/i'k. xi. 2.'1), di'iiotesthespiiei-eof celestial lo\o from 
till' 1, 1 11(1*. The 'iiiiisi' am! the top of tie' niinnitaiii made holy ( I'^.ek. xliii. 
I'.i), driiuli's till' Lord'H ci'leslial kiii;;d.iiii t'niiii the gnod of love, tluduli 
calli'd a //iii//".''//'/( in a lii'ld, (.ler. xvii. .''i. di'iiotes the principle of ct'le-.tial 
liive in the I ii:i»'s l\iii;.'diini reprt'SfiiliMi hy tln'iii. The iiinunlnin ^>i the 
(•iin;:ri';,'atioii in thi' siili-s of tin' north ( Ij^a. xiv. Vl), denotes the ohscure 
stall' wlie 'e the inlliix of good, which Hows in with ligiit friuii the J.oiiii, 
i~ li'i'iniiiati'd. Four chariots going out fioin iH'tween two ;f(r>t(((^i<(is of 
I(ra>^!/.ec. vi. 1 S), denoli's tliir preced.ire of doctrinalH trom the good of 
liivi' lo the |,ord mid love to the iii'ighlior in the natural degree 'J'lm 
//("(ui/((//(.s shall di-<til sweet w'iiie and the hills shall iin-lt, when captive 
l-rai'l is restii fd ( Amos ix. i;!), deiiotesthe good of love ami charity when 
llii' spiritual cliurch is deliveri'd from falses. Tne Loui> of hosts i;aiiie 
ilnwn to light for;«('((//r /ioiuiiid Ibrllii' hill tliereof(lHU. xxxi.4) leiioles 
till) oninipoti'in'e ot' iliviiie good and diving truth. 4'onteiid vv'lh the 
iwiiii/'iiiiK and let the hilN liear thy voice(.Mic vi. I), denotes truth speak 
lug w ith those who are elalr of heart in si'll'-love, and with those who ar : 
ill rliarity. And it shall conie to iiass in the last days that the iiiuuniniii. 
Ill tin; l.iiun's house shall lie estalilished in the top of the iiiiiKiitain.'i and 
xliiill be exalted almve the hills ami all the nations shall How uiilo it, and 
iii.'iny people si 1 all go and say, Coiiieye, and le( us go up litl\>i>UK>iinl<i'n< of 
llii' Loitii and to the huiise I'lf the (iiii> of .lacoh, and lie will teach us His 
ways, and we will walk in His paths, ( isa. ii. ',i ;J) These words are s|iokeii 
of ilie New Church to be establisin .1 by the Liiuii; by the moiinlaiii (>f the 
I.oKK, which shall then be establislied in the top of ;•'"•« mountains, isnnder- 
.'^liiotl /ion ; and by /.ion, is signilied the celestial ciuirch, and love to the 
i.iiKit which iscohimnnicated to tho^itt who belong to tinit church, that this 
Istlie primary principli' of the church, and that it shall iinii'iiHO and gain 
ftniigth, is signilied by its being in the top ot the mount. lins, and i xalted 
aliiiM'llie hills; that they who are jirincipled in the good ol love shall 
iiikninvli'dge the l.oicn. and accede to the church, is signilied by all nations 
ttewing to that nioniitaiii, iialioiis signifying those who are in celestial 
K'i'id, which i> I lie good .if lu\e lo the hoicii, and people, those whoun^ in 
i-|iiiilii,il good, wliiili is the ^iiod of charity towards the neighbor. 'I'bey 
I'lllie soiilh shall pimsess ihe iiKutnl of I'-saii, (Obad lit), denotes the guod 
iifline Willi llio-e who are ill the light of liiitli His feel shall st;ind in 
tliat day upon the iiinnnt of (Hives, and the iiinnntniii shall divide, etc. 
(/ft!, xiv. •!), deiiotesthe ailvent of the l,tiiii> in the good of love and 
cliiirilv, and tlie church tormetl by such goods receding from llio .lews to 
the uutious. The Loul< st,'t uiiou ii liitjh mvauUiin iiml ujiou u jtluiiuclc of 



AI'l'ENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS UUIUK. 








|:i,. 



tin/ t(3rin)lc, oy tlic «k'vil, dcnotos iho oxtromc toirptation combatw tliat ho 
Hustuiiu'd a>];ttinst tlic loves of .sell and tliu world, thus against liell. Let 
tlicm wliicli III' ill .liidoii ticu into tlu' mountaina Matt. xxiv. 10), denotes 
wilvafion in lovo tn the Loiiu and charity to tho neighbor. They mIuiII say 
to tUiiinoiuitaiii.'i, Kail on us, and to tli<' hills, cover us (Kt'v. vi. Hi),deiioteH 
thu statu of the t'vil uiiahh' to buar tliH Loiiu's presonco. A great munntdin 
burning with hit! cast, into the midst of the soa (Kev, viii. 8), disimtes tlio 
lovet)fs(;lf in the Hcientitics of the natural man. From the examples it 
may bosi'on that there is an opposite Hide from lovo and goodness, when 
evil is treated of, for who docs not know that there are mountains of jiridti 
and self-love of a very dilferent kind from the lovo of the Lokk and Iho 
neighbor!' Other instances could be uotud, but uiiough haa b'-'cu brought 
forward gatisty the present purjxise. 

^'Mention has bcfrn made of those ancestors of the human race who existed 
in the times of primitive integrity, happiness, purity and goodness. Not 
without the best (d" reasons did the ancients .sjteak of that period as the 
i»<)Li>KN age. Jii modern times, for a similar reason, we sneak of tlaa 
(/olden rule, ah(?ari i>t't/(>l(l, f/oltlcn fruit, //((/(/c/toninions, f/ol(h-ii ()\)i>ut\u- 
nity. etc., and no oimis ever at a loss to perceive the corresjiondeiice exist- 
ing between the symbol and the pieciousness of t lie thing or tpiality repre- 
sented by it. The nature and (pialities t»f gold are \s ill known. Its red, bri^'ht 
«'olor, corresponding to that of burning lire, issymtiolicof lovo or goodiitiss, 
as is also the inlienmt warmth of the metal. No uncoml)ined acid can CDr- 
rode or dissolve it, acids corresponds to truth falsilied, which in other words 
is evil or wickedness, so " charity sufli-rs long and is kind." The most 
intense heat has no I'urflier etfect on gold than to Htill fiirthor purify it, 
whilo its intrinsic value renders it a most proper emblem of that desirable 
<|uality which it is used to ri^iiii'sent or symbolize in the Wouu of (ioo, 
vi/., that of the good of love from the liOiiu. .Silver in the internal sense 
of the word sigiiilies truth, and in an opjiositt^ sense, the false. From this 
I'luri'spondeiit'e we can understand how the solution of silver iiseil in 
jihotography is so sensitive to tlie rays of light, for natural light corien- 
ponds to spiritual light, which is the veriest divine truth, or that True 
Light which lighteth tn'ery man that coiueth into the world, fhu 
ciilor of silver is also in correspondence with the resplend icy of linhl. 
liegarding gohl and silver it may lie well to state that in the Word tiny 
stand in a sort of niuluul lelation to each other, renreseiiting resjiectivjy 
love and wisdom, charity and faith, goodness ana truth, will and uiider- 
standing: the alleetions, orthe feniinint> principle, aiul the intellectual, or 
the masculine ]irinciple. From this correspondence arisus the mutual atliiiity 
these metals have for each other in the numerous intermixtures uiid 
appliances in tin; various arts unil manulactures of tin- world. Inferior 
metals, such as brass, iron, etc., are u.sed in the WoiiD to tlenote a lower 
degree of goodness and truth. We will now approa<di the sacred wriiini;^ to 
Bee to wli.it e.\ tent these remarks will be conliriiu'd. 'i'he river of Kdeu 
eiicoinpassing the whole land of Ilavilah, wln.'n; there is tjn/tl and preejuus 
stones ((i(!ii. ii, II, 12) deiio es the state of the <relestial man as to love and 
faith. AbraiMs beiiif,' ver.' rich in «//<'«;• and //o/d ((jeii. \ni. 2) denotes 
the state of the Lniui in y<inth as to celestial f;ood and truth. The Israel- 
ites borrowing jewels of mfrer and jewels of i/<)l<l and raiment of the 
F-gyptians ( K.Kodus xii. ;ioi denotes scientilic truths and goods taken away 
from the evil, and aciiuired by those who are of the spiritual church. The 
people tillering ,'/"/</ and sitner, and brass, and blue and purple, etc., fur 
the works of the tabernach', denotes interior things collated and lUspuseJ 
in <'.\ternals, where they are represented. 'I'lie f/o/d of the ark, ami the 
border oi' i/old round about it, <lenotes good in the inmost, ami the coiunion 
sjihore of good \vlii<h jnoceeds (Vom th" L(iiii>, and coiitaiiis all. Ihe mercy 
seat and I be tdiernliim of v'l/i/ denotes the hearing and reception ol worship, 
and approach to the l.'iuii from the good ol love. The table ot shew bread 
covered with i/o/d, and the border <;f gold r<'mid about it, denotes the recep- 
tion of all that conduces to tlii' spiritual lite in good, and fin; sphere of good 
alTording protection from evil. I'he eaiidlesticsk, Hs branches, etc., nil ol 
//o/f/ denotes all mental illumination, and intelligence, or the truth of faith 
proceeiling from good. The couplings lor thocurtains oi'gold, denotes the 
■Whole couuecliou and conjunction of truths, thus the wbylw oriier aud 



til 



}\ ii 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' aillDE. 



;> 



ibatM that lio 
It liuU. Lt't 

Ifi), (U'llOtPH 

Ik'Y Hhiillsay 

. lt»), (llMlOtl'H 

nit mountain 

, (IlilllltCH till) 

■)(lnt,'K!*. wlii'n 
ains of pridii 
,(>Ri) and tlio 
uvou brought 

• whoexinted 
)odnes8. Not 
pi-riod as tlie 
Bucak of the 
/<t<'JiopiH)rlu- 
mdi'iiciM'xist- 
(luality rcpro- 
ltrtrud,bii«lit 
1 or j;ot)dii(!ss, 
acid can cor- 
ti otluT wordu 

" Tll« lllDSt 

thcr purify it, 
that dt'siruhli^ 
Vin\.i> of (ioi>, 
iiitiTiial sLUso 
n>. From tliii> 
Hiiver UM'd in 
1 li;;ht (;i)rn;.v 
I, or tliatTnu! 

worhl. fliu 

icy of li;;lii. 
lie Word tiny 
ff resi>oclivyiy 
nil and unihr- 
iiit«'ll«ctu:il, or 
mutual alliuity 

inixturi's uiid 
rid. Inferior 
ionoti! a lower 
roil \vi-itiiij{- to 

rivrr of Ivli'ii 
il and iiri'cious 

iiH to lovi' and 
xui. 2> doiioli'8 
li. 'Hi(« Israi'l- 
raiiuoiit of tlm 
ids taken a\v:iy 
,1 church. Til" 
inirph', *'ti' . t>'r 
d and diKposfU 
ic ark, and tlio 

idtht'coiiiuioa 
; iiU. riKMin'rcy 
tion ol \vor«liil'. 
(• ot shfW bread 
.noti'Hthcrecel)- 
i« sphere of ;-'ood 
iches, etc.. I'll «>< 
he truth of inith 
ohl, denotes tlx' 
hole order ftud 



harmony of heavon, prpserved by the jjood of lovo. Tho boards of codnr 
covered with gold denotes the whole merit and good of works, thus all tho 
ffood that sustains heaven, from tho good of love, thus from tho Loud. 
Till) blu( , the purple, and scarlet and fine linen of the ophod, embroidered 
nil over with f/o/(fen thread, denotes the universal i)revalenco of love, and 
every manifestation of charity and faith imbued therewith. The .sockets 
of the onyx atones made of f/o/U, and tho chains of t/olil, denotes tho suh- 
hi-iteiiee and coherence of all thing.s In the memory grounded in good. 
All the stones of the breastplate set in ffold, its rings and chains of yo/d, 
denote all tho goods and truths ot the internal man procwding from tho 
divine good, surrounded by the sphere of good, and their iiidis.sohiblo 
conjunction thereby. The bells of yold upon tho border of tho robe of 
Aaron denote all that is heard and perceived of the church, thus all doc- 
trine and worship to be from goo<l. Tho nlato of gold eagraved with 
" Holiness to the Loru" upon Aaron's foi-ehead, denotes illustration and 
wisdom proceeding from the divine good of the Louo. The altar of 
inciMise covered with </nld denotes the elevation or hearing and reception, 
of all wor;ihij) rising from love and charity. Bezaleel, of the tribe of Judali, 
c.Tlled and inspired to do these works for the tabernacle, to work in yolU 
etc., denotes those who are in the good of love receiving the diviiu? 
iiitlux, and their exceeding wisdom. In the opposite sonne, the ear-rings 
(if _7o/</ given to Aaron to make the yoA/i^u calf, denote tlu* delight of ex- 
ternal loves, which are tho loves of self and the world, rendering worship 
idolatrous, thus the good of the e.xternal man instead of the good of love, 
or divine good, is represented, (iold signilies spiritual good, much (inn 
j/d/f/ celest'al good. (I'sa. xix. 10.) 1 counsel thee to buy of nie fjn.'d 
tried in tlie lire, that thou mayest be rich, (Hev. iii. 1!^). denotes' tho 
);oo(i of celestial lovo derived from the Louu. (Iold and precious stones 
(K'l'v. xvii. 4), denoti^s divine spiritual good, and divine spiritual triitli, 
hotli derived from tli(? Word. How is the //o/injeconie dim, how is the 
iiio-t i'\u(^ i/old changed. (I,am. iv. 1), denotes the sjiiritual and celestial 
floods of tho church lightly esteemed through declension into evil. The 
precious Sons of Zion euinparable to line i/o/d, (I, am. iv. 2), denotes those 
who are in wisdom from divine truths. dolit, hrdss, and cviof^, (Isa. 
I.\. 17.), represent tho three eelest'nl principles, tho inmost principle is 
represented by gold, tho inferior by brass, and the lower by wood. The 
use of t>'.(: f/olil and siliwr vessels belonging to the tempU' of .Jerusalem at 
r.elshazzar's! feast, while they jiraised the gods of gold, and of .-ilver, of 
liriiss, of iron, of wood, and of stone, (Dan. v. 2,3,4), denotes the jirofana- 
tiou of the knowledges of (jood and truth by those who are in falses, his 
kingdom being divided, signilies the dissipation of goods and truths, 
and he himself being slain that night, signify the privation of the life of 
trood and truth, consequently, damnation. And the street of the city was 
iiure f/o/d,an it were transparent glass. (Hev. xxi. 21.) Hy the city, or 
New .ierusalem, is meant the Loitii's New Church as to every thing per- 
tiiining to it interiorly considered, or within the wall ; by gold is signified 
the ifimd of love from the Loun, and like unto pure glass, signilies pellu- 
cid or transparent from divine wisdom, and since the latter appears in heii- 
veii iis light, and tlows from th;' I,oim> as a sun, just as natural light ilows 
from the natural sun; by like ii'ito iiiire glass i.s signified flowing in toge- 
tliir witli light from heaven from the l.oiti). Hegardint? the hoRn'S 
ciiniing it is written, liut who may abide tlie day of His coming!' and who 
Hliall stand when he apiM-aroth!" for He is like a refiner's lire; and he sliajL 
sit ns a refiner and purifier of silver, and lie shall puriliy the sons of Levi, 
and purge them as oold mulsUvir, that they may oiler unto the Loan an 
oHi'riiig in righte(m"sneB8. Then shall the otlering of .ludah and. Ierusalem 
be jileasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old. and as in former years 
(.Mai. III. ;j, 4). Uy Lovi in a supreme sim.so is signified love and mercy, in 
a spiritual sense, charity in act; conseiiuently the .sous of Levi signify tho.so 
who are in the affection of truth and live in the good of life. The name 
denotes to itdhere, by which in the Word, is signified conjunctiim through 
love, by the refiner's (ire is denoted temptation, whereby is etreoted puri- 
li( ation, which is here meant by purifying and purging them as gold and 
nilvr. lJv.Judah is signified the Lor.li's celestial ehurcli, or those who 

hings, and by Jorusaloui thoso v/ho are iu neigh. 






I 

1 

i . 



I tho Lord above i 



At'PENDIX TO THE ARTIZANs' GUinK. 



Iidurly line, lli(M)fft^r!nj» tlicy will J)niiKtint() llic Lokd Isfailli niid rlmrity, 
liy llic (lays ot' ojil iiiul (oriinw yearn ;in' incaiit f he aiicit'iil (•liurclics, :iii,| 
till' slates «t the \vui-slii|) ot the ijoicn iit tliut time. It is (il)vi(ii.s tliat ilit> 
SDiis ol Levi iiieiitioiiett III tliis jiussa^e oiiiiiiot mean those wlio were olljij. 
atiiij,' :.s priests (liiriiijj :lie ime o. our KkdKk.mkk'h iiieaniiilitin, Ibr liny 
were of tliat. <tiitra;j!i'<)usly wiciied crew wlii> williilly criicilieil llic l,ni;i» 
ol'iijory. Ill the iiitoniiil seiiHeof ihc Word the twelve trilies of'theclnlil- 
reti of Israel si^nity tlie chiircli lis t.. till its gooils and truths; the sarne is 
^l^'Ili(ied hy the twelvo disciiilos of 111.- liord, and hy the twelve (,'ales and 
twelve loundiitions >,| llio New Jerusalem, ns it is stated rejjardinfj ihiHe 
last, that names were written *her«'oii, which wero respectively, the iiainis 
o( the twelve trilies oMsruel and those of the twelve U|)ostleH of the l.aiiili 
.ler'isaleni adorned \v\lh f/o/d nud st/rt'r, [Iv/.ck. xvi. \ii), the tenijile wiili 
its i/it/il and silver claimed as tlie Louk'm, ( llii;;. li. M) denotes the clnircli 
gifted with wisdom and iiitelllffimce. or celestial and spiritual knowliMlfri'. 
Uii/il i\\\i\ sihu r made into images o( men and whoredom coinmilteij wiHi 
theni, (Kzek. XVI. 17), denotes profaiiatitMi predicated of celestial ami 
splriiiial kiiowled;.jt's, Tlu! ships of Tarshish to hring .ti'/'cr and i/<>/,l, 
(Isa. i.x. I)), denotes kiiowled^^cs when the L<;iii»>( kintrdom Is ostahli^lud, 
iiy which truths and ;^oods are nciiiiireil. lie who is withoiil st/rcr iiuit.'ii 
to buy and eat, denotes siu h uh are in imioniiiceof trut';. but in the jrooil 
of charity. Silrcj' and ;/'>/il j,'otten hy Tyre ( K/ek. .\xviii. 1, .luel in. f,) 
ileiiote intolligeiice, or wh.it is the same, truths and wisdom. Si/nr jiiiri- 
tied seven times (I's. xii, li), denotes divine truth. It is hoped that llu'^c 
•'.samples will sidlice t(j ehii;idate ^he stnleiiHMits made re;.'ardiiij{ tin' sym- 
Lidic or representative sense of)^()ld, KiUor. etc., in the Wonl. » 

Ah rejfards the correspondence ot the sun, moon, aiidstars, it will he 
seen from what follows that these natural luminaries are also used l>y tin' 
J)ivino Ai riiou of the Word to represent si)iritual and lieavenlv lliiiiir-', 
and in an ojiposite sense, tliinjjs that are evil. TIk; Si;.n', in tiie iVenl 
when the I,(>i;i) is sjiokeii of, si>i;nilies hi.'' divino love, and at the same 
time i lis divine wisdom. Forasmuch as the Lduk with respect to II is divine 

ly wiirshi]) 
_ -fi praclice 

is still continued. The Moon, in the Wor<l sij»ni(ies the Loiiu in nliienic 
to fiith, andthunce faithiii tlie Lkkk. .Stars, in asiipn ii'.e sense, >iunhii's 
knowledge coiicemin).; the l,<>ui>, hence .stars sif,'uily intelli},'eiice of a 
Hoii'itiial kind, or the k.iowled^rt^ of>roodaiid truth, which is true wisdom, 
lliese slateuKMits will now bo conllrmed from the Wonl. " And llesliall In- 
as the li(.5ht of the morning when the sun ristth, even a nioriiinir witlnmt 
clouds, as tliett'uder grass spriiiyiiif? out of the earth by cli'ar shining.' idler 
rain" (ii. Sam. xxxiii., 4,). Theli/jht of the morniiifr when the sun riseili, 
siiLfiiifies the divine triitli i)rocee('iiig from the Loud as a. sun, a ntoniiiif; 
without clouds denotes the juirily of that truth, rain siji;nilivs its iullux, 
:ind the tender grass sjiriiigiuR cut ot the earth signilies intelligence, ami 
reformation thence originating for these are signilied by griiss, Iicciiim' 
grass sjirings out of the earth by virtue of the sun of the world after rain, 
and intellij^eiice hs from the Lotu as a skn by the iu*Jii.\ of divine inilli. 
M .KMN(* IS used in the Word lo ilenote cv<'ry i)articular coming id liir 
I. OKI), or when there i,s faith ana love in the church, the* ?"■/(«'«// or iii;r!it 
denotes a Mnie or state in which t.'iese are wanting. " Blessed ot'the l,iii;ii 
lor his land, for the iirecioiis things of heaven, for the dew, and lor lli'j 
deep that coiiclndh beneath, and fo." the i>re(Mous fruits bnuiglit forth hy 
by llie.<titu, and for the precioii.s things jiuttorth by thc.vionn" (i>eut. x.x.\iii. 
J.'i, 11.]. This particular blessing was j)roiiounced on ,Io.«ei)h, for llie 
reason that by .JoHejih arc understood the si)iritiuil celestial, who are Ihc 
IHj^hest or siiiireme in the sjiiritual kingdom. Hy his land is signilieil that 
Kingdom, likewise the church thence derived. Hy the precious things of 
heaven, the dew, and the deep that couclieth beneath, are signilietl IliiiigH 
that are spiritual celestial in tn(> internal and e>;ternal man. Hy the precious 
thinijs brought forth by the sun and the precious things luit forth by tin' 
moon, ;ire signilied all things which j)roceed from the Lokd'm celestial 
kingdom, and all which imtceed from His spiritual kingdom, coiiso- 
'pieiitly all the goods aiul Irnths which arc thence derived. " Traiso 
yii tliu Luuu, jiraise ye II im all Ills hostg. Traise ye him siiu and 



wisdom, is meant by the sun, ther"fore the ancieal'i in their hoh 
turned their faci's to tin rising sun, and also their ten'>pl('s, which p 



h nmloharity. 
cliuri'lii's, anil 
ivii)i.-i that till! 
Ill) wcri' ollici- 
iitioii, lor tlicy 
lii'il till' Lnuit 

t'S llt'tlli'cllllil- 

lis; till- same U 
^I'ivi' gall's ainl 
I'^'arilin^; llii'^i* 
ily, tlic nanus 
H of till' Laiiili 
lie tciiipi)' With 
)t('>< till' ciitircli 
mil kiiowii'il^ti'. 
oniiiiitti'il with 
)f ci'li'stiiil ami 
ilrcr ami i/o/i/. 
I is f>!*talili<hi'(l, 
it ai/rcr iiiviti'il 

llllt ill tilt' t;Olll| 

I. 4, .loi'l 111. fi) 

II. Sili'ir jinri- 
lopcil that tlit«' 
ariliiif{ the j^yni- 
or.l. ^ 

stiirfi, it will III' 
also iift'il by tin' 
licavt'iilv tli'iiiL"', 
.\, in till' Wdiil 
mil at till' sami' 
(I'd to Ilisilivini' 
I'll- holy wiirslii]! 
, whii'h practii'i' 
,<)Ri> in ri'tiii'ni'i' 
iM" siMi.-*!', siirnltii'^ 
iiiti'llifji'iici' of a 
h is trill' wisilimi. 
' Anil lli'shalllii' 
nnirimiv' wilhimt 
Iciir shiniiif.' atliT 
ontho !'iin risi'tii, 
I SUN, IV nioniinp 
iHnill^s it.s intliix, 
intcllini'nc''. ami 
)y f^rans, hcraii^i' 
. world ufti'rrain, 
t of iliviiii' truth. 
ar coMiiiijr "' ""' 
'cvi'iiiiif/ or uii-'ht 
I'ssi'd ofthi' l-oi'" 
(lew, anil li>r Ih') 
broufjlit forth by 
nn" (l)i'ut. xxxiii 
n ,Iost'i>h. I'lT till' 
(stial, who iiri' till' 
111 issifrnilii'il that 
precious thins-'s of 

ri' sinnilii''! "''"!-"' 
.n. Uytln.'i»ri'ci"ii!i 
s jmt forth hy thi' 
r,otti>'s ci'li'stial 
I kinfiiloin, iiiiii^''* 
il.Tivi'il. ■■ I'rai''*; 
yo liini Sim ami 



Al'PENDIX TO THE AllTIZANS' QUIDB. f 

»)M.i», praiso Ilim, all yo xtnr.'^ of UrIiI" [I'sn. cxiviil. 2. n|. Iloro hr 
praisiiiK tin- [-oiti> istiij,Miilli'il to worship Ilini. Hy tlifiiiigclsuro signified 
thosi'wlio ail' ill (livino triMhs from tin. g.M.il of love, Tor all such uro 
angi'ls. Uy all His hosts aw signjlifil goods nnil truths in 'hi'lr whole 
cumpiiss. |{y till' sun anil moon ar(! signilit'd tlio good of lovo, and thu 
truth In.ni that good. IJy the stars of light arc sigiiilicd the knowlt-dgf ot 
truth from good. In.'Uimiicli as man worships tin- J.ouo from tlioinu tilings 
whirh ho ri'ci'ivos from tho J.oui., thus from tho goods and trutliH tlia- 
ari' in him, and as it is also hy virtuo of such tliing.s that man is man, it is 
thi'ri'fort' Haid to such things mimcly. to tho Hun, inocm, and ntars, by 
which arc trignilled goods, truths, and knowhulgfs of truths, that tlwy 
should worship tho J^oud. It is clear that the command is not addressed 
lolhose luminaries which enlighten thn natural world, for how can 8uch 
things oiler praise and worship'.' And God mad(> two great lightB, the 
gnater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night, lie 
made the .itdvs also |(ien. 1. l("i|. Tin; subject treated of in this chapter is 
till' new creation or legeiieratioii of m;in, that is of tlioso who constituted 
till' .Most Ancient church which is herede.scribed in the literal sense of the 
Word by the creation ofthe heavensand the earth, those who imagine that 
this description applies to the creation of the natural universe are niucli 
di'ci'ived, lor how <'ould ilay and night, or light havean ex isteiicj< previous 
to till' creation of the sun, which according to this account did not comu 
into bi'ing until the fourth day!' Or how could the oarth bring fortli grass 
or the lii'rb yield seed, or the fruit tree yield fruit after his Kind, lieforo 
till' sun of nature came into being!' These anil many other objections 
liavebii'ii brought forward by inliilolsand scollifrs,again.st the authenticity 
ofthe Word, and by many others who would consider themselves sorely 
•igjirii'ved by having these terms applied to them, many who are indeed 
I'arni'st sei'kors after truth. J.iet all such know that tho Word of God as 
ri'vi'tiled to lis, and the works of (Jod as made known to us throiigl* thosu 
laiiiltiis with which lie has endowed us, aie never in conflict anc never 
contradict oach other, but are always in heavenly correspondonco and 
I'l'li'stial harmony one with the other. Cou'h love in tho will, an:' Ills 
truth in the understanding, are I, ere ocllnd two great lights, and a'ter- 
warils lovi' is called a greater light, and faith r, leas, and it is .said of lovo 
that it shall rii/f In/ ihiij, and of faith that it shall rule hi/ niaht. The iMost 
Ancient church acknowledged no liiitli but love itself; and the universal 
heavi'ii is of love, no other life being existent in heaven hut the life of love. 
From love is derived all heavenly hr.ppinetis, which is so great that no 
degree of it admits of di'scription, or ctn over bocf-nceived by any human 
idi'a. Those who are under the influence of love, love the Loud from tlio 
heart, but yet know, declare, and perceive, that all love, and consequently .all 
life which is of love alone, and thereby all happiness, come only from tho 
LoKU and that they have not the Inast of love, of life, or of happiness, from 
tlii'inselves. The ])rof'undity ofthe Word is such that as to its inmost sense 
it iloi's not tri'at in the least of natural things, but only makes use of tliem 
lo represent and symboli/.e things that are s])irifual, as may be seen from 
the following in reference to a consummated church, as 'he end of the age, 
or " the end of the world" as it Is erroneously translated in the authorized 
virsion. It is written, " Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall 
till' sun be darkened, and the moon shall notgive her light, and the stnr$ 
shall fall from heivi'ti, and the jmwers of the heavons shall be shaken; 
and there shall apjiear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven; and tlion 
sliall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the .Son of Man 
coining in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. And he shall 
send his angels with a great sound of a trumi»ot, and they shall gather 
together hisi elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other". 



(.Matt. xxiv. 'i'.t-31). Hy all these exjjres.sions are meant spiritual things re- 
lating to the Church, of whose final state or period thev are spoken, for in tho 
spiritual senso, by the sun which shall be darkened, is meant love to the 



boKD; by the moon which shall not g've her light, is meant faith towards 
Jlim.by the stars which shall tiill f'roii e heavens is meant the knowledge 
of (goodness and truth, l-'-very inteliiK "t pi-rson will know that it is no 
iiioi'i' |)ossilili' for the stars in the lirmament to fall to the earth, than it 
would be for a million of worlds to fall on a pebble by the seashore. B/ 



d 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GlJIl)]';. 



the Bl(?n of thp Son of Man in Imavon, U moant th.' npiM>aranro of Divine 
truth in tlii' Worti Iroui lliin: by tlic trib^H ot tli> t'urth which slmll 
niouru, i« inoant thu failure of all truth wliioh U ^t fiiith, and of all tioiiil 
which iH uf luvt'; by the coiniii}<ul'th<' nun of Mini in the cloiuiHut hi'intn 
with power and ^r^^at plory, in meant the precenc*' of the l.<nti> in tlii> 
Word, and rovnlation ; by tiie cloudr< uf lieavon is siKnilied tlie lilcral sense 
of tlio Word, by power and ^reat j?lory is meant its intornal Henso. which 
has reference Hoh'ly to tlie Lotiii and Ills Idngdoni, in each and every 
pasHage, and from tlii«, tliat House deriverf itw p wor and K'ory ; iiy tho 
unKels witli a great loundof a trum|H>t in meant li.aven. whence «livint> 
truth comoH.by gathering together tlieelect from the lour winds, from one 
end of lieaven totlieotlier, in meanta new lieaven nnd a new Churcli, to be 
formed of those wlio liave faith in the l>ord and live according to His 
iirecepts. "Heboid the day of tlie i^ouu cometh, for tliu stars of 
iieavon and the constellations thereof shall net give tueir light, tliesxn 
Hhall bo darkened in liis going forth, and the nwon r\in\\ not cause tier 
light to shine, (liia. xiii., U-10). 1 will oovcr the heaven and make the 
atars thereof dark, I will cover the sun with a cloud, an<i the vi<>on shall 
not give hor light. (Ezek. xxxii. "-8.) ^hc day cf the Ixiiu i.- near, the 
atiii and moon Bliall bo darkened, and th • -tars ahall withdraw their shin- 
ing, (.JocI, iii, 14-15.) Tho same idea is .isibln in all these passages. Hy 
thoday ofthaLouD, ia meant His.dven , 'A-hic!. was r.' rtinie when there 
■was no longer any good of lovoor truth of faith remaininn^in the C'linrcli, 
or any knowJed'joof the Loki>, therefore it Iscalled . dav of <larI.nesH iind 
thick darknese. From want of knowledge respecting the spiritual sense 
oftho Word, as unfolded by thosciencoof correspomloncos, many < hris- 
tians at the present dey suppose tliat tho honi» will ujjpear in the clouds 
of the atmosphere, and, accompanied by the whole _i thu heavenly liost, 
will be visible to thonaturaleye,vvhenthedead bodies and mouldering; dust 
3jf all who have ever lived on (lio earth will be raised (at the sound ol the 
archangcrp trumjK't), out ol tlieir graves, and wherever else (,..eir dust may 
be scattered, no matter what form they may have assumed. It is thoiiKld 
this inconceivable mass of corruption will be raised up, and the soul ol 
each bo re-implanted, the judgment set, and the hooks opened, each one 
being judged out of what is written in those Ijooks, just as if the Oninis. 
cient Onk could possibly require a set of books; that then the earth and 
all that is therein will be burnt iii), the stars fall from heaven and the mu 
and moon be blotted out from the creation. Many good people enter- 
tain these thoughts because things are thus described in the letter ot tho 
"Word, but the case Is far otherwise, lor it ismosttrue thalby cloud.'! in the 
»Scripture is meant theWord in tlie letter, for It is written that ••His strength 
is in tho c/oitf/s," tliat "His truth reacheth unto tho e/owLt," ihnt "Me 
inakcth the clouds His chariot," tliat " His faithfulness reacheth unto tlie 
clouds,' that the " clouds are the dustof Hts feet ; that thick clouils nie a 
covering to Him. In his unclouded purity. He is described as a " morn- 
ing without c/otj^/,'!." These ami many i)th«'r similaroxpressioiisi an never 
be piedicated of the clouds of nature, but that they are true of the Wdnl 
is most clearly manifest; hence, wiieii the Loru is spoken <)f us coining' in 
the clouds of heaven, a literal or jiersonal coming is not to be understood 
or expected, but instead {Iicrecf', on unfolding or op<>iiingof that HpiriJind 
or internal sense of the Word which has hitherto lain so deeply conceiiled 
within the clouda cf the letter, ami which a« to its inmost is the I.oiti) 
Himself, and though the anno .^ncemont may seem premature, this coming 
has actually taken place during these latter days by and through the dis- 
closure ot that eense to mankind. But more regarding this in what 
follows. When rightly understood, the Word teaches that tho only 
resurrection that wii 1 ever be accorded to man's body consists in tbe raising 
np of the soul or spiritual body, which takes place immediately after 
natural death, and after death, the judgment. This does not take pUuv in 
this world, but in the spiritual world into which every one enters after the 
death of the body.the books which will then be ojiened.and from which hi' 
•will be judged, signify the interiors of the mind of man, because in them 
are written all things appertainig to his lil'e. 

Another resurrection Ik indeed spoken of in John v.25., as follows;— 
•• Iho hour is coming, and no%o is, when the dead shall hear tho voice of 



APPEN'Dix t6 tttt: artYzans' nriBE. 







ocf DIviiu' 
vliicli Hliall 
ut' nil ^iKiii 
Iwol'hi'iut'n 
,(>iti> ill l)i)< 
liltrulsfiiMf 
eiiHO, wtiicli 
li luiii I'vcry 
Dry ; »)y tlio 
loiicc (liviiH^ 
Kls.friiiiioiit' 
luiicli. to be 
(liiiK to lliH 
liu Hlftr.i t)f 
Ight, tlifNioi 
ot ciuisf licr 
ml iiuikt'tlH' 
10 innnii shall 
) i: lu'iir, thi' 
i\v tiK'lr !<liin- 
laH^iiKt"'*. l^y 
,t> whpii tht-ro 
I tliP Clinn'ti, 
(lurl.iio^H 1111(1 
i; irituiil n'li;**' 
,'nmny (JliriH- 

in tlif clouili* 
icavpiily lio-it, 
mhlorinn •l"''! 
csouiul ot tlic 
^,«'ir(Uist may 

It l8 thoiinlit 

11(1 tllffOlll (it 

ii(>(l. cncli oiu! 
, if the Oiiiiiis- 
tli(» earth iiiid 
t>n iiml'li«'*->"» 

1 IM'uplC flltfl- 

10 h'ttcr of thd 
iv rlfluilx'wi tilt' 
flliHstrcudtli 
,/s," thiit " lit' 
chcthuiito tilt' 
ck clouils nic u 
(i ii!« ft " nit "III- 
isioiiHcaii iit'VtT 
ucof till' WonI 
otai'Coniinf.Mn 
, hi' undcrslix'tl 
it ttratPiiiriiiin 
^'ply (vnu'ciilfil 
St, is the l-tii:ii 
ircthii^C'Miiiiig 
hrouph thf ilis- 
tliis iu wlia^ 
that the nnly 
HtHintbi^raisiiif? 
mt^ciifttcly iiltcr 
ot takii iiWicf m 
• onti^rs after tliP 
d from which lu- 
because in them 

J5., aa follows •,- 
ear tho voic(3 of 



ihoSrtn AfOon.and th<»y fliat honr shall 11 vo :'plain1y tn(Iiratlnf» ivronnrroc 
tiiiii from the xiavcM of cttriiality and thflnvi' tu si-lf and I ho world, which 
iss|ilritual di'ath, to the life of Miiiritiiul lnindl>dI^>^^!<, and the lovooftht^ 
i.iiuK and tho ni'iphlior, wtiidi alone in tnn' life. ThiM rcsurroction inuHt 
take jilaci' during inan'^ lifo in tin* hody, itrauuot take nlano altur iloath, 
liir such an tho ruling lovo W in this lift' it will irrvvocaiily romalii to all 
oiiTnity, It in also a great fallacy to infer from any (loscri|ition ixi tho 
Wonl, that this earth will evtir Imilestroyed, no such doctrine licing nver 
taiijiht or inculcated therein. In the inotlvru tlisctiverles of geolopy.tho 
testimony of (ittp through HiR works, |>iiintA unerringly to tho Hiihliinn 
• ruth that Inlinito power has been constantly engaged during countloM 
millions of agei4 in jireparing the earth for the (ihodo of man. It lian been 
Ttated that tho human race might exist, and thenco lieaven, for the hu> 
man race is thiiseminarv of heaven, ami when inniiite l.ove is HutiHtioil to 
it-^ fullest capacity with intelligent ami rational beiii^' <in whom it may 
slmwer its lilessingrt ami celestial heatitndes, for itci ilea them for no 
other oml, then, just so soon but no nooner, will the procreations of the 
human race cease, and the v.'orld become a blank in the creation. Ti>6 
most aniple testimony jH not wantiii,,; to provi) that it was He who laid 
tlie fiiundatioiH of the KAiirir, that it Hhoiild not lit*^ removed for kvkii," 
I's. <iv.,r»" lie built his .taiictnary like high palaces, like tho kaiith 
which he hath estahlished khii kvku." I's. i.xxviii (I'.)." The WdiiLU also 
is (.sfiihli«heil that it cannkt hi; movko." IN X( in. 1. " Say among th« 
heiithen that the Lord reigiieth :Ihe would also shall Im OHtahlishea that 
it nil A I.I. M'T nii MoVKii, I's. .\<vi. Ki. " One gniieratiou pasxeth away, 
ami another generation cometli, but the earth aiiihetii koii bvku. 
Kccles 1,4. < »f tho sun, nuxm, and stars, we read :— " They shall fear tlieo 
as long as tho fliTN and moo.v K.NDiiiK, throughout Ai.r. ciknkrationb." 
i's. i,\.\ii.,5. " ills iiaino shall cmlure kou kvkk ; his name shall bfl 
continued as long as the sun,"— ver. 17. " i'raise ye Iiini, sun and moon : 
praise ye him all ye stars of light. liPt them praise thu name oi the loud; 
for hecomniandetl, and they wore created. lie hath establislied them 
j'ou KVKi: ANO KVKU : lit' liatU made a decree which .'iiiaj.l not I'ABH. 
' I's. CXI, VIII.,;}, f>, 6. These eiiucialions nr(> certainly all that will bo 
retiiiired to inanifest tho diviius intention that the universo Hhall not 
reuse to exist. A perishing earth is iiseil in the language of correspon- 
dences to describe a perishing church In the following and many other 
piissages "The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolced, 
tlie earth inviiUHdeXifiitliiiffti/." Isa. xxiv. ly, "The cursp f/«uoMrc<Hho 
turlh and they that dwell tborein are desolate ; therefore tho inhalntanfs 
n/lhi- firlh arc Imnud, and few men lert," Isa. xxiv 0, " For my people 
is foolish and they have not known me; they are sottish children, and they 
have no understanding ; they are wise to doovil, but to do good they have 
no knowledge, I beh(?ld thiicdrth, and, lo, it was trUhotUfnrm and void, 
aiitl the heavens, and they had no light." Jer. iv. 2'2. 23. lloro wo have 
the picture of an apostate church in a ..tatc of declension from goodness, 
descrilied by the earth being clean dissolved, as moved exctH'dinglv, as 
being without form and void, and the inhabitants thereof as being 
burnt up. It is most evident that neither of these statements can be lite- 
rally true of the natural «Mrth. It is written in Joel " In those days will 
I pour out my s]iirit and I will show wonders in the heavens and in tho 
eiirtli,blooil,antl fire, and jiillars of smoke. Tho sun shall be turnt^d into 
diirkness, and the ?noo» into blood, beforo the great and terrible day of 
the Loui> come," It. JW., 31. The apostle I'eter on theday of Pentocost, 
Acts XI, If), '21, cites theeiituo pa-ss.age from Joel, and refers to it aa bcinf( 
I'lillilled on that day, but wo know as well as we can know any thing, that 
these great commotions did !iot actually take place in tho kingdom of 
Jiatiiro. at that time. Our ever blessed LoKi> and glorified Uedkkmkk was 
Keen by the beloved disciple in Apocalyptic vision, as '• One like unto ftie 
.Son of Man, clothed with a garment down to the foot and girt about the 
liai>s with a golden girdle. His head ami his hairs were white like wool, 
as white as snow, and his eyes were as aflame of lire, and his feet wore 
like unto fine bra.ss aa if they burneil in a furnace, and his voice as the 
Hoiinil of many waters. Anil he had in his right hand seven xtnrs, and 
out of his mouth wont a sharp two-edged swor>l, ao4 his countenauce wa4 



•A* ^ .0. V^ C 




IMAGE EVALUATION 
TEST TARGET (MT-3) 




L 
^ 




// 




^/ 






^ 







<" 



« 



1.0 



I.I 



|iO "^^ 

126 1^ 

ui 124 

Wuu 



2.5 
2.2 

2.0 



11.25 i 1.4 



I 



1.6 



^ ^;; 






^'^JiT 



^ 



'^' 




/^ 





>^ 



Photographic 

Sciences 
Corporation 



M 




i\^ ^^ 



^ 





iV 



\\ 



^ 



^^ 








6^ 



.«v*/' 



23 WEST MAIN STREET 

WEBSTER, N.Y. MSfiO 

(716) •72-4503 



^ 

^y^^ 



t^ 




10 



APPENDIX TO THE AtttlJJANS GUIDK. 



hi 



aB the sun shining in his strength." Ecv. i,*13, 16. One like unto the Son of 
Man, signifies the Lord as to the Word, clothed with a garment down to 
the foot signifies tlie proceeding divine, which is divine truth, for gar- 
ments in the Word denote truths, and girt about the paps with a gohlHu 
girdle signifies the proceeding and at the same time the conjoining divino 
which is divine good; by the paps or breast, divine love is signified, as is 
evident from those passages in the Word where they are mentioned, as also 
from their correspondence with love; and his eyes were as a flame of lire, 
signifies the divine wisdom of the divhio love, and his feet like Uiito line 
brass as if they burned in a furnace, signifies divine; good natural ; fiio, or 
what burns, signifies good ; and fine brass signifies the good of truth natural, 
therefore by the feet of the Son of the Man like unto fine Irass, as if tlicy 
burned in a furnace, is signified divine good natural, and His voice as tlio 
sound of many waters, signify divine truth natural ; for waters in tlie Word 
denote truth: and in his right hand seven stars, signifies all knowledges of 
good and truth in the church from Him, wliich are tlience with the augols 
of heaven and men of the church ; and out of his mouth went a sharp two- 
edged sword, signifies the dispersion of falses by the Word and by doc- 
trine thence from the Lord ; and his countenance was as the sun slliiiing 
in his strength, i- gnifies His divine love from which are all things of 
heaven, for this is the signification of faces when predicated of the Lord 
as denoting His divine love, from which is all good, thus also all things of 
heaven. Regarding the blessings promised to him that overcometh, it is 
written, "And I will give him the morning .9^a/-," licv. 11.28. signifying 
that intelligence and wisdom from the divine human principle of the Loiio 
will be imparted to all those who love and obey Him. Literally under- 
stood such a gift would be incomprehensible, for liow could the morning 
star of nature be given to any one ? " And there appeared a groat wonder 
in heaven ; a woman clothed with the sun, and the mnni under her feet, 
and upon her head a crown of twelve stor.s; and she, being with child, 
cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered. And there appeared 
another wonder in heaven ; and behold a great red dragon, having seven 
heads and ten horns, aud seven crowns upon his heads, and his tail drew 
the third part of the stars ofheaven and did cast them to thn earth ; and 
the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for 
to devour her child as soon as it was born." Kev. xii, 1. 4. An<l there 
appeared a great wonder in heaven, signifies revelation from the Loud 
concerning the Now Church in the hcavons and on earth, and concerning 
the difficult reception and resistance which its doctrines will meet witli. A 
woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, signifies tho 
Lord's New Church in the heavens, which is the new heaven, and tho 
Lord's New Church about to be upon earth, which is the New Jerusalem, 
lor it has pleased tho Lord in His Word to cause His Church to bo roprc- 
Bcnted under tho similitude of a woman, as well as by the symbol of a city, 
as witness " Come hither, and I will shew thee the bride, tho Lamb's 
wife." Rev. xxi. 9. Where by the Lamb is signified the Lord as to tho 
essentialinnocence of His Divine Human nature, and by tho bride is 
signified His church, represented by the New Jerusalem about to bo con- 
joined to Him. The reason why she appeared clothed with the sun is, 
because this church is principled in love to the Lord, for it acknowledges 
Him, and does His commandments, and this is to love Him. IJy the moon 
is signified intelligence in the natural man, and faith, and tho reason why 
the moon was seen under her feet is, because the church on earth i3 
understood, which is not yet conjoined with the church in heaven ; by ap- 
pearing under her feet is further signified that it is about to bo upon 
earth, and will as to doctrine be grounded on the divine truths of tho 
Word; and upon her head a crown of twelve stars, signifies tho wisdom 
and intelligence of this church from knowledges of divine good and 
divine truth derived from the Word ; by the crown on her head is siguilied 
wisdom and •intelligenoe,and by stars are signified the knowledges of divino 
good and truth. And she being with child, cried, travailing in birth, and 
pained to be delivered, signifies the doctrine of the New Church about to 
come forth, and its difficult reception in consequence of the resistanco 
it meets with from those who are understood by tho dragon. To be with 
«Uild aiguiflQstho birth of doctrine, because by the child which wasiu tbo 



i5. 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS* GtJtft«. 



11 



ito the Son of 
tent down to 

uth, lor gar- 
with agoldfiu 
joining diviuo 
ignilied, as if! 
tioned, as also 

flame of lire, 
lilie Hiito lino 
atural; 11 to, or 
"truth natural, 
rass, as iftlicy 
is voice as the 
.■8in tho Word 
knowledges of 
vitl! the angels 
it a sharp two- 
rd and by doc- 
iio sun sliining 
[» all things of 
d of tho Lord 
so all tilings of 
forcomoih, it is 
1.28. signifying 
doofthoLoiU) 
itorally under- 
(1 the morning 
a groat wonder 
under her feet, 
ing with child, 
[ tnero appeared 
n, having seven 
id liis tail drew 
thn earth ; and 
p delivered, for 
4. And there 
from the Louu 
and concerning 
ill meet with. A 
pt, signifies tho 
heaven, and tho 
New Jerusalem, 
urch to bo reprc- 
symbol of a city, 
ride, tho Lamb's 
IP Loud as to tho 
by tho bride is 
ibout to bo con- 
vith tho sun is, 
it acknowledges 
im. l$y tho nmon 
d tho reason why 
urch on earth is 
in heaven ; by ap- 
bout to bo upon 
lie truths of tho 
lilies the wisdom 
divine good and 
ir head is signilied 
nvledgos of divine 
iling in birth, and 
r Church about to 

of the resistanco 
gon. To ho with 
L which was in tlio 



womb, whose birth is treat(>d of In ver. 5. Is signified the doctrine of the 
New Church, for nothing else is signified by being with child or in travail 
and bri iging, forth, in the spiritual souse of the Word, but to conceive and 
bring forth those things which relate to spiritual life. 

And there appeared another wonder in lieaven; signifies revolftflon 
from the Lobd concerning those who are against tho New Church 
and its doctrine. And behold a great red dragon, signifies those in the 
Keformcd Church who make (jOD three, and the Lord two, and separate 
Charity from Faith, and insist on tho latter being competent to salvation 
without the former. Such are here meant and in what follows, by the 
dragon : for they are against tho two essentials of the New Church, which 
are, that God is one in essence and in person, in whom there is a Trinity, 
and that the Loud is that God; also that charity and faith area one as 
an essence and its form; and that none have charity and faith but those 
who live according to the commandments, whieh say that evils are not to 
be done, and in proportion as any one does not commit evils, by shunning 
them as sins against God, in the same proportion lie does tin; goods which 
relate to chanty, and believes the truths which relate to fiiith ; having 
seven heads, denotes insanity from the profanation and fal.sitication of 
the truths of the Word; and ten liorna, which denotes much power, and 
seven crowns upon his heads, signifies all the truths of the Word falsified 
and profaned ; and his tail drew the third nart of the stars of heaven, and 
did cast them to the earth, signifies that, ov falsifications of the trutlis of 
the Word they have alienated all spiritual knowledges of good and truth 
from the church, and by application to false doctrines have entirely des- 
troyed them : and the dragon stood before the wo* .an who was ready to 
be delivered, to devour her child as soon as it \.as born, signifies that 
they who are meant by the dragon will endeavour to extinguish the doc- 
trine of the New Church at its birth. In the narrative continued in verso 
f), by "she brought Torth a male child," is denoted tho doctrine of the 
Now Church; "who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, signifies 
which, by truths from the literal sense of the Word, and at tho same time, 
by rational arguments drawn from the light of nature, will convince all 
who are in dead worship throug!i being principh'd in faith separated from 
charity that are willing to be convinced. " And her child was caught up 
to God and to his throne," signifies the protection of the doctrine by tho 
I-ORD because it is for tho use of the new church, and its being guarded 
by the angels of lieaven. " And the woman fled iiito the wilderness." 
signifies the new church whicli is the new Jerusalem, at first confined to 
a few, whore there are no longer any truths, for by a wilderness in the 
Word, is signified, 1. The church devastated, or in which all the truths of 
the Word are falsified, such as it was among the Jews at the time of the 
LoKD's advent. II. The church in which there were no truths, from not 
possessing the Word, such as it was among tho well-disposed Goutiles in 
the Lord's time. III. A state of temptation, in which man is, as it wore, 
without truths, because surrounded by evil spirits who induce tempta- 
tions, and and then, as it were, deprive him of truths. It will bo seen 
from this that a spiritual wilderness is in exact correspondence with a 
natural wilderness, which signifies a place where there is little or no 
water, for water denotes truth. Passages from the Word in corroboration 
of these statements are too numerous to be cited here, but will occur to 
every attentive reader of its contents. And tho city hac no need of the 
8UN, neither of the Moon, to shine in it, for the ^lory of God did lighten 
it, and the Lamb is the light thereof, Rev. xxl., 23. Hy the sua is here 
signified natural love separate from spiritual love, which is self love; and 
by the moon is signified intelligence and also faith natural, separated from 
intelligence and faith spiritual, which is self-derived intelligence and faith 
item self; this love, and this intelligence and faith, are hero signified by 
the sun and moon, which will not bo required to shine upon those who 
will be in the Lord's New Church; by tho glory of God which lightens it, 
is signified the divine truth of tho W'^ord, and because that light is from 
the Lord, it is said that the light thereof is the Lamb. " That ye may be 
the children of your Father who is in heaven; for he maketh his Sun to 
T\tB on tho evil and the good,and endeth rain on the just and on the unjust," 
Matt, v., 46, signifies in the auiritual sense that from tho Lord, as a eun 



. ■ i' ' ! 



f!'. 



12 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' OTJIDE. 



! ^ 



prncocds liglit and hoat; tho light which prococds, inasmuch as it ig spirf. 
tiial light, is the divine truth, and the heat inauniuch as it in ypiritual huat, 
is tho divine loves these flow from the Loud continually into every man, 
but tire variously received according to the state of tho recipient; hytho 
evil they are turned into evil and what is lalse, by tlie good they aro 
rccoiveu as good and truth, and aro thus comforted and built up by 
them. The correspondence is closely seen in the case of the sun of nature, 
which although it emits nothing but light and heat into external objects, 
Btiil tho effects are very different on a putrid carcass, and the grow- 
ing fruits of the earth, or a beautiful flower garden. Again, in David, 
" His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the Sitn before me. Jt 
shall be established for ever aa the Moon," Ps. L^xxix., 36, 37. By David, 
who is here treated of in the literal sense, is understood the Loui>. liy 
liis seed which shall endure for ever, is.8igniflcd tho divine truth, and all 
those who shall receive it« By His throne which shall endure as the sun, 
is signifled heaven and Uis church, which are principled in celestial good, 
which is tho good of love. By His throne which shall be established as 
tho moon for over, is signified heaven and the church which are principled 
in spiritual good, which is the divine truth. Concerning those who love 
the Lord it is written, "Let them who love Him bo as the Sun when he 
goeth forth in his might," by which is signified the operation of tho Lord's 
divine lovo in tbom. Again, in Is. Lx., 20, "Thy Sun shall no more go 
down; neither shall thy Moon withdraw itself; for the Lokd shall be 
thine everlasting light." These words treat of tho Lord, and of the now 
lioaven and new earth, that is concerning the church to be established by 
Jlim. That the good of love to the Lord should not perish, nor the good 
of charity towarda their neighbour in those who belong to that church, is 
understood by, "Thy sun shall no more go down, neither shall thy moon 
withdraw itself;" That they shall continue to eternity in truths from tho 
good of lovo, is understood by, "Tho Lord shall bo thine everlasting 
light, and the days of thy mourning shall bo ended," everlasting light 
boiug predicated of those who are in the good of love to the Lord, and 
ending of tho days of mourning, of those who aro in the good of charity 
towards their neighbour. In an opposite sense, we have, "The Sun shall 
not smite t!;eo by day nor the Moon by night, The Lord shall preserve 
thee from all evil; ho .shall preserve thy soul," Ps. cxxi., 6, 7. By tho sun 
is hero understood tho love of golf, and by the moon the false principle 
thence derived ; ina.smuch «.8 all evil is from that love, and ft-om evil what 
is false, therefore it is said, " The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil; 
ho shall preserve thy soul," the soul here signifying the life (^ truth. 
This id tlie sun meant by our blessed Lord in the parable when he says, 
" But when tho Sun was up it was scorched, and because it had no root 
it withered away," Mark IT., 6. This is the sun that has ripened and 
brought forth more direful fruits of evil than all other causes combined, 
having in short, populated hell with inhabitants, and filled tho earth with 
every phase of woo and misery which it contains; it is the very opposite 
of that Sun of which it ia written; " But unto you that fear my name 
shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with healing in liis wings," Mai. iv., 
2. Tho sun of righteousness liere denotes the divine celestial principle, or 
tho Lord as to the good of love; and the wings of the Lord in which 
there is healing signifioa truth from that good, which is the divine spiritual 
principle ; healing denotes reformation thereby From this uncreated and 
infinitely glorious Sun, as from a boundless ocean, is derived all the bless- 
ings of lovo, wisdom, mercy and happiness enjoyed by ail in heaven or on 
earth ; through and by the reception of its influent life every thing exists, 
without it nothing can exist, either in tha visible or the invisible creat'on, 
and just so far as our wills and understandings are expanded to receive 
and appropriate the inefl"able delights which it communicates, just so pure, 
unsullied aud seraphic will bo our joys and beatitudes both in this world 
and that which is to come, for in that Sacrkd presknce there is fulness 
of joy, and pleasures for evermore. 

Note the correspondence of oil and mne \n thn parable, where our 
Lord said of the Samaritan, that coming to the man who was wounded 
by thioves, ho bound up his wounds, and poured in nil and ■wivr, Luke x. 34 
where by oil aud wine ii3 not meant these things, but the good of love and 



ibPENWx TO THE ARTKSNS* QtflDl:. 



13 



1 as it ig spirf- 
piritual liuat, 
[> every mnn, 
|)iont: bytho 
00(1 they aio 
t)iiilt up by 
sun of nature, 
«rnal objects, 
id the grow- 
lin, in David, 
)of<>re me. Jt 
37. By David; 
le LoKi). By 
truth, aud all 
ire as the bud, 
celestial good, 
ostablialiod as 
arepriiicinlcd 
lose who love 

I Sun when lie 
n of the Lord's 

II no more go 
jOKD shall be 
iid of the new 
established by 
, nor the good 
that church, is 
ihall thy moon 
ruths from the 
ine everlasting 
erlaating light 
the LoRn, and 
ood of ciiarity 
' The Sum shall 

shall preserve 
7. By the sun 
false principle 
ft-om evil what 
(0 from all evil ; 
s life ( '■ truth. 
? when he says, 
) it had no root 
I as ripened and 
luses combined, 
, the earth with 
le very opposite 
t fear my name 
ings," Mai. iv., 
iai principle, or 
Lord in wliich 
! divine spiritual 
s uncreated and 
ved all the bless- 
in heaven or on 
ery thing exist.", 
visible creatron, 
mdqd to receive 
ites, just so pure, 
jtii in this world 
s there is fulness 

tble, where our 
lio was wounded 
■wivr, Luke x. 34 
good of love and 



charitjr,by ofl the good oflorJTand by wine t!ip good of charity, and 
of ttiiih, for the subject treated of is concerning the neighbour, thus charity 
towards him, " Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine 
enemies: Thou anoiutest my head with oil, my cUp runneth over." I's. 
XXIII. 6. To prepare a table and anoint the head with oil denotes 
to b(! gifted with the good of charity and love; my cup runneth 
over, denotes that the natural principle will bo thence filled with good and 
truth. Again, " I have found David my servant, with my holy oil have 
I anointed him " 1*8. Lxxxix. 20 where by David is meant the Lord, 
the oil of holiness with which ho was anointed, signifies the Divine good 
of the Divine love. By the oil or ointment on the head and beard of Aaron, 
I's. cxxxiir. is denoted celestial and spiritual good or the good of love to 
the JjOUD and the good of charity to tne neighbour, for it is compared to 
the dew of llermon that descended upon the mountains of Zion ; lor there 
tli<> Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore. By the dew 
of llermon that descended upon the mountains of Zion is signified that 
lioly principle of divine truth proceeding from celestial good which causes 
unutterable felicity in the mind of the man in wliom it reigns, and which 
is described as that " peace which passeth all understanding." From oil 
denoting celestial good and spiritual good we may see the reason why it was 
used in tlio anointing of the Kings of Israel, also the significance of the 
anointing oil f )r the prie8t*^, and its use on the vessels and lamps of tho 
tabernacle, as well as m the flour and cakes for the offerings &c. From 
this also may be und ^rstand the meaning of oil in the parable of the ten 
virgins. Matt. xxv. ; . aud the command not to hurt the wine and the 
nil, Rev. vi. 6, and a hundred other places when it is mentioned in the 
Word. To descend to lower things, see with what quietness and beauty a 
lino of shafting will run at a high velo'city on brass bearings when well 
lubricated with oil; brass corresponds to natural good and oil to celestial 
good ; try the same experiment on iron bearings, without oil, iron corres- 
I)ond8 to natural or sensual truth, which is hard and grating, and witness 
the consequences! I^et us ascend a step higher and witness the delight 
we experience in holding intercourse with a person of a sincere, kind, 
considerate and obliging dispostion, for in his every word and look we 
can behc'.d in hn countenance traces of that " oil wnich makoth tbe face 
,o shine." 

We will find tho correspondence of bread and water, and flesh and bloody 
equally instructive. Bread and water are spoken of, when all tho goods of 
love aud truths of laith aro meant. Truth, in regard to good, is as water in 
regard to bread.or as drink in regard to meat, in nourishment. Bread signi- 
fies the primary principle which nourishes the soul, as it denotes the flesh 
of the Lord, by which is signified the divine good or love, hence He says 
" The bread of Ood is he that cometh down from heaven, and ^Iveth life 
unto the world " John vi. 33, and again," I am that bread of life " vers. 
48, and from this it comes that the bread in the holy sapper denotes the 
Lord, aud all the celestial principles of love as proceeding from llim, 
wliich is meant when He says, " Whoso eateth my fleah, anddrinketli my 
hinod, hath eternal life ; and 1 will raise him up at the last day," (ver. 64) 
and again," He that eateth my tiesh, and diinketh my blood, dwolleth in 
nie and I in him, verse 56. To eat the Lord's flesh and drink His blood ia 
to receive His divine love in tho heart or will, and His divine truth in tho 
understanding, and to live a life according to them, for by this, conjunc- 
tion is effected, and this is the reason why bread and wine were appointed 
to be used in the Holy Supper, f )r by bread is signified tho Lord's divine 
love, and by wine is denoted His divine truth, eating signifying appro- 
priation and conjunction, hence t-.o Lord's supper is in very deed tho 
holiest act of worship. The bread of tho sacrifices represented the good 
of lov3 to the Lord, hence it is written " Thou dosirest not sacrifice, thou 
delightest not in burnt offering ; the sacrifices of God are a broken spirit," 
I's. la. 16. 17, by which is signilicd an humble heart, which confesses that 
man's own intelligence is nothing, and that from the Lord alone proo«ed 
every thing of goodnois and truth that •inan can receive. By bread in tttti 
IBRD's prayer as well as in the holy supper, is signified in the supremw 
Bcn.se, the Lord and the things of celestial love. In an opposite sense, to 
eat bread in tho sweat of tho face. Gen. iii, 19, represents celestial truths 



I i 



, , ) , 



14 



Ain»ENI)lX TO THE ARTIZANS OtJlbfii 



rccoivpi/ nn a stato of aversion. The Chilrtrcn of Isi'aol lusting for ^cs/t 
and the flesh, ])ot.i of Kgypt ronresonts the dosiro of the natural man 
to live in a corporeal manner, tnat is, in the loves of self ftnd the world, 
The flesh of the foreskin to be circumcised denotes the removal of the 
defiled loves of the natural man. The way of all flesh corrunted, slKnirica 
the understanding of truth totally destroyed in theoorporeai state of man. 
By the call addressed to every feathered fowl, and tvery beast of the 
earth to eat of the flesh of the mighty and drink thoWoo*^ of the princes of 
the earth, of rams, of lambs, of gouts, of bullocks, etc., on the mountains 
of Israel, and to be tilled with horses and chariots, mighty men, and all 
men of war, Ezek. xxxix, 16, 17, the Holy supper is signified, for in Rev. 
XIX, 17. it is called the supjx'r of the (Jftjat Gou, by every feathered fowl, 
and by every beast of the Held, is signifiefi man as to his thoughts and afTec- 
tions, or understanding and will ; the mountains of Israel denotes the good 
of love and charity ; these things which form the feast denote all spiritual 
and celestial tilings proceeding from the Loiin Himself, as to the good of 
His divine love, and the divine truth of His wisdom. This is the spiritual 
nensoof the passage, for ii is clearly impossible that such things could bo 
literalljr eaten. The feast of unleavened bread, or Paschal, was to signify 
the subjugation of hell, and the glorification of the J.,oiiu's humanity, for 
it denotes His presence with deliverance, henc(> it was forbidden to eat of 
any thing leavcmcd, because a fcrmentingagent denotes th false from<>vil. 
Spiritual good is signilied by those words in Ezekicl : " A now heart also 
will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you; and I will take 
away the stony heart out of your fle.''h, and I will give you a heart of 
flesh, XXXVI- 26. In the Word, heart signifies love; hence tlie love of good 
Is signified by a heart of flesh. Wafer,in the Word denotes truth, and for 
this reason waters and rivers are Uescribed, where gardens and rivers are 
mentioned, as significatives of the man of the Church. To draw water 
denotes to bo instructed in the truths of faith and to bo illustrated. 
Drawers of water, such as the Gibeonitcs wore, denote those who desire to 
know truths for no other end than to know them, A flood of water denotes 
temptation and desolation, because wicked persuasions and thoughts aciu- 
allyflowin fVomovil spirits. Wellsof unclean water denote what is not true. 
Broken cisterns denote doctrines in which are no truths. In beautiful corre-'- 
pondonce with tiiis divine symbol cf truth we will flnd that in physics, or 
the science of natural things, that man applies the same standard to ascer- 
tain the weight of solids and liquids, each being said to be heavy or liirht 
Bi)eci(ically as they relate to water; tlius the exact weightof a cubic inch of 
gold, compared with that of a cubic inch of water, is called its specific 
gravity. Weight, spiritually considered, is nothing else than real worth, 
hence we have the expressions, solid men, or men of worth or truth, and 
weighty words, or words of wisdom. Furthermore, as Omnipotent power is 
continually predicated of the LoKU as having relation to the principle of 
His divine truth, and this truth being symbolized by water, so none 
in civilized life can possibly be igiorant of the corresponding prodigious 
power derived from water in the various uses it performs in the 
world, and the cleansing properties of divine truth on the heart, 
when it is ap))licd to the life, and water, when it is applied to the 
body, should be equally well known. Some may bo solicitous to 
know the reason why co much is said regarding love and wisdom, 
or goo't and truth in the above passages, and the enquiry is reasonable 
and just. In answer to this 1 would state that all the attributes 
and p<.'rfections of the ever blessed God resolve themselves as in a focus 
into chese two, viz : Love and Wisdom, or what is the same. Good and 
Truth, corresponding to lieatand light, or what is the same, warmth and 
illumination, as proceeding from the sun of nature, and those in the 
Crkator form a one, constituting what has been called a marriage of 
good and truth. Man, being created in tlie image of Goi), ought to pre- 
sent a finite transcript of those attributes which exist to an infinite extent 
in his Maker, and on examination this will be found to be the ca.se, for tlit>rc 
is no quality inherent in man but what belongs either to his will or under- 
standing. What does not belong to one of these, forms no part ot the man, 
and the.-ie together form one mhid, and the mind is what constitutes the 
man himself, the body being merely a clothinn; elimiuatcd from the ultimate 



Ai'i'ENDIX 'I'O THE AllTiZANS* GUTDfcl. 



15 



ting for flesh 
natural man 
111 the world, 
moval of tile 
r>ted, Hlgriifica 
utatoof man, 
y boast of tho 
the princps of 
ho mountains 
T men, and all 
>d, for in Rev. 
athcrod fowl, 
;hts and alTec- 
iot08 the good 
to all spiritual 
to the good of 
a the spiritual 
lings could ho 
was to signify 
humanity, for 
idden to oat of 
[also from evil, 
low heart also 
,nd I will take 
roil a heart of 
lelove of good 
I truth, and for 
and rivers are 
ro draw water 
bo illustrated, 
e who desire to 
f water denotes 
thoughts aciu- 
^hatisnot true, 
joautlfulcorro'^- 
itin physics, or 
indard to ascer- 
heavy or liiilit 
fa cubic incliof 
tiled its Rjyectfic 
ban real worth, 
h or truth, and 
ipotent power is 
the principle of 
water, so none 
ding prodigious 
performs in the 
on the heart, 
I applied to the 
10 solicitous to 
3 and wisdom, 
ry is reasonable 
, the attributes 
res as in a focus 
same. Good and 
me, warmth and 
nd these in the 
d a marriage of 
>i), ought to pre- 
in infinite extent 
he case, for there 
lis will orunder- 
part ot the man, 
t constitutes the 
Tom the ultimate 



fhiniTSof nature, such ns carbon, pbosphonis, silicon chlorine, phosphate 
of lime, sulphur, iron, inagiiesium, water, potassium, &c. &c., of all of 
which man is divested b;- natural death, never more to resume them, but 
nevcrtheleM he finds hinisolf in the other life, possessed of the bntimu 
form, and every member, faculty and sense which he enjoyed in thiti life, 
but much more keen, delicate and refilled, by puritication from the things 
of nature. Those things just mentioned are what constitute flesh and 
blood, of which it is written, that they sliall not inherit the Kingdom of 
God, and one has well observed that you may as wdl attempt to raise a 
ship from the bottom of the ocean and leave down there all tli(> wood and 
iron, as to raise a natural body without flesh ami blood. We are much at 
a loss to conceive what possible imjirovemcnt could be efl'ectod by tho 
union of natural bodies to the spirituMl bodies of those countless m\ riads 
wiiich formed the mighty pojiulatioii beheld in lu'uvcu by tho beloved dis- 
cipU! in \\u\ Isle of I'atmos. J^et us go a step lurtiu'r and investigate tiio 
works of Kjom m seen ill the visible creation, and here; everything will bo 
se^Mi to reflect the attributes of the Almighty, but always in correspondence 
with ilis love and wisdom, or goodness and truth. From this correspon- 
dence every thing seems to go in pairs, for ht!re wc find male and female, 
boly and siml, sun and moon, heat and light, land and water, flesh and 
blood, heart and lungs, gold and silver, brass and iron, and so on through- 
out ali tho ramifications of nature even down to the ultiniates. What is 
true of vjOd's works must in a still more exalted sense lie true of that 
Word which is the transcript of His own perfections, and the embodiment 
of His divine love and wisdom; hence it comes that in the Word (here is 
nothing but what has constant reference toeither one or theother of these 
attributes, or of something in connection with tliem, or in opposition to 
them, such as evil and the false, and from this arises further, an apparent 
repetition of the same idea, sentiment or thought, very often in tho course 
of a single verse, but it ought to be known that one of these expressions 
has relation to iho divine Love, and the other to the divine Wisdom, or 
something in connection with them, or in opposition to them, as no vain 
reiteration can over bo predicated of the divine Word. In orderto analyze 
the subject still further, take for insicanco that inimitable blessing wherewith 
Aaron and his sons were commanded to bless thechildren of Israel : " Tho 
JjOiiD bless thee and keep thee, tiie Loud make His face to shine upon 
t!ioe, and hegraciousinto thee: the Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, 
and give theo peace." Numb, vi, 24, 2<]. In tho Internal sense these words 
signify that the Loud from divine love flows in with divine truth and with 
divine good into aU those who receive Him, The divine love from which 
the LoRi> flows in is understood by tho face of the Lord, and the divine 
truth with which he flows in, is understood by the Lord making His face 
to shine upon them; and tho divine good with which He flows in, is under- 
stood by the Lord lifting up His countenance upon them; defence from 
evils and falsitiee, which otherwise would take away the influx is under- 
stood by " the Lord keep thee and be gracious unto thee," heaven and 
eternal "felicity, which are the gill of the Lord by His divine goodness 
and divine truth, are understood by " and give thee peace," for when evi4d 
arc removed from man, the interior of h;s mind is filled with celestial 
b(!atitude8 and joy unspeakable. In their inmost sense these divine expres- 
sions contain such a deep meaning, and embrace such transcendent blessings 
that even a very faint idea of them is in a manner incommunicable to man 
in his present state of existence. Again in David, " Thy mercy, O Lord 
is in the heavens- and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Thy 
righteousness is like the great mountains, thy judgments are a great 
deep," Ps. XXXVI. 6 7. Where mercy and righteousness have relation to 
the love of God, and faithfulness and judgment have relation to His 
truth. Again in Isaiah, " And on this mountain shall the Lord of hosts 
make unto all people a feast of fat things, a feastof wines on tho lees, of fat 
things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined," xxv. 6. Tho 
subject treated of is concornirig the advent of the Lord, and by a feast of 
fat things is denoted the comm-.inication of goods, and by a feast of lees or 
of the best wine, the anpropnation of truths. Again in Genesis, " Judah 
ii! alien's wholp; from* the prey, my son, thou art gone up; he stooped 
down, he couched as a lion and as an old lion; who shall rouse bim up?" 



16 



Appendix to the artizans ouiDtf; 



JTLTx. 0. l\y Judali is horn siitnifiod flip LoRi)'e'co1««t5al kinrdom, where, 
all are in i^owcr from t)ie Lord by diTin« Irutli ; thin power re understood 
Tjy alion h wlielp, anti by an old lion, by the prey from which he went up, 
is «if?nifk'c' the dissipation of falsities and eviln; by stooping down In 
tiiffnitit^d to put himself into power; by couching; is sipfniHcd to be in «ecu- 
riiy from every falsity and evil, wherefore, it is said, " who shall rouao him 
up." Again, O Louu my God thou art very great, thou art clothed with 
honour and majesty," l'». civ. 1 There by being clothed With honour 
and majesty, w'len i)redicated of ti.e Loud, is signified his girding HlmsL'H 
with divine truth and divine good, for they proceed from Him, and thence 
gird llim, and thus constituti* heaven. Again in John, " In tho beginning; 
was tho WuKu and the Word was with God, and the Word was Gcd. 
Tlie same was in tho beginning with God. All things were made by him, 
and without him waa not any thing made that was made, in him waf 
lite: and the life was the liglit of men," John 1. 1. 4. From thosf 
passages it is evident that tho Lord is God from eternity, and that 
this God is Himself the Loud who was born into the world, foi 
it is said that tho WoiiD was with God and God was tho Word; 
as, also, that without ilim was not anything made that waa made, 
Why the Loud is called tho Word, is but little understood ni 
the (Munch; lie is however called the Word because the Word 
signifies iJivine Truth, or Divine Wisdom; and the Lord is Divine Truth 
itself, or Divine Wisdom itself, for which reason He is likewise called the 
Light which lightoth every man that comcth into the World. From the 
LiKic and Liour which pervades the Word comes the vivification of thd 
aSbctions of that man's will who reads it devoutly; and the illumination 
•f the thoughts of his understanding, there being something intimaiely 
aU'ecting the heart and spirit which flows with light into the mind, and 
bears witness. Divine Love and Divine Wisdom constitute a one, and WDr^ 
fr jin eternity a one in the Lord, wherefore it is said, "In him was lifo 
uiid the life was the light of men." This oneness is meant by these words, 
'' In the beginning was tho Word and the Word was God." By tljo 
Fitheris denoted the Divine Love, or tho Lord as to Divine Good. By the 
\V^oRD made flesh is signifled tho Lord as to tho Divine Human principle 
which Ho assumed by being born into the world, from whence He is 
called " tho Only Begotten of the Father " the " sent of God " the " Arm 
of tho Lord," for the Divine Good, or the Father, tilled this Human prin- 
ciple as the soul tills tho body, not indeed, in perfect fulness at first, but 
beginning as it were from a germ, the Divine principle gradually expanded 
dui iug His lifo on tho earth, sustaining Him, and enabling Him to over- 
come, in the conflicts, combats and temptations admitted into His hiuna- 
iiity from the powers of darkness, which were of such a direful nature that 
thev are utterly inconceivable by the mind of man. The Divine prinoJBlc 
wit'hin denoted by the Father, was that Omnipotent power which enabled 
him to work miracles, so that He could sa^, " The Father who dwelleth in 
mc, he doeth the works," and from this also emanated those gracious 
words which proceeded out of his mouth, of which it is said, "I have 
given them th(> words which thougavest me." Before his Incarnation tho 
Lord existed in first principles only, by assuming the Humanity Ho as 
jt were descended to the ultimate, or lowest principles, and from this He 
calls Himself " the First and the Last," Rev. i, 17. The merely human quali- 
ties derived from tho mother were gradually eliminated from the assi^med 
nature by temptations, sufierings, combats, conflicts and continual victories 
over the powers of darkness, who at this time held almost entire posses- 
sion of tho human race; by these victories Ho removed hell from tran,and 
restored "that which He took not away," even man's liberty to choose 
jlife or death for himself, and f\irthermore glorified His Humanity, and 
made it Divine, or One with that Divine Good in which he existed from 
eternity, so that He could say before His ascension: "all power is given 
unto me in heaven and in eartli," Matt, xxviil. 18, and afHor full and com- 
plete glorification, Ur could say to the belovpfl disciple in Patmos, "I am 
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith tho Lord, which 
is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty," Kov. i, 8. The 
[Lord in tho Word, is called Lord, (or Jehovah, in Hebrew, when the 
word Ia)RD ii printed in capitals), from the good ot His divine Love, and 



tf. 



nedom, w1ior6 

• n understood 

chhe went up, 

apiue down h 

il to be in scicu- 

hall roueo him 

■t clothed with 

[ with honour 

irding Uim»c>lt 

im,and thcnee 

tho beginning 

oiiD was GcD. 

inadH by him, 

In him wae 

From thesf 

nity, and ttiat 

ho world, foi 

a3 tho Word; 

at was mad(!, 

understood in 

ISO the Word 

is Divine Truth 

} wise called the 

orld. From the 

fifiuation of th(3 

ho illumination 

liiug intima'oly 

the mind, and 

a one, and wer^ 

[n him was lit'o 

by these words, 

•jloD." By U40 

e Good. By the 

luman principle 

whence He is 

OD " the " Arm 

lis Uuman priu- 

ness at first, but 

lually expanded 

ng Ilim to over- 

into llis huina- 

eful nature that 

Divine prinoJalo 

r which enabled 

w)io dwelleth in 

1 thot>e gracious 

Is said, "I have 

Incarnation tliu 

iumanity He as 

nd from this He 

elyhumanquali- 

om the assumed 

ntinual victories 

8t entire posses- 

i from t!~an,and 

berty to choose 

Humanity, and 

he existed from 

J power is given 

tor full and com- 

I'atmos, "I am 

ho Loud, which 

' Kov. I, 8. The 

jrew, when thn 

livlno Love, and 



'A1>PENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' QUIDE/ 



17 



God, from the divine truth of His divine Wisdom; He Is called rnmsT, 
liio Auoint«d, in relation to His kingly office, and Jksuh, signifying salva- 
tion, ill relation to HisofUce as Saviour. Ho calls Himself the Sou of God, 
when llis divinity, llis unity with the Father, His divine poWcr, and thfl 
lifo that is from Him, are treated of, and the Son of Man, when He as 
tho Word, suffers, judges, comes into the world, redeem<<, saves, and 
regonorafas. .Jehovah, who was in ilim, appeared to be absent in temp- 
tations, and this appearance was proportionable to the degree of His 
immersion in the humanity. Hence Ills prayers to tho Father, in tho 
(ioipels and elsewhere; many of them can bo seen in the Psalms, which 
OS to their internal sense treat of the Loud alone, under the figure of 
David as a king. The Lord coming forth from tho Father, and returning 
to tho Fatlior, means the humanity proceeding from tho Divinity, and tho 
union and glorification of tho humanity. By the Lord's birth from 
eternity, is meant His birth foreseen from eternity, and provided for in 
time. By Lord God Almighty and the Lamb, mentioned Rev. 
XXI. 22, and elsewhere, is not meant two divine persons, but by Lord 
God Almighty or Lord God Omnipotent, is signitied the Lord from 
eternity, who is Jehovah Himself, and the Lamb signifies the divine 
JIumauity which Jkiiovah assumed by birth into tho world, by virtue ot 
which Ho became Emmanuel, or God with us. From these observations 
it may be seen that tho Lord is the God of heaven and earth ; that in 
Him is the Divine Trinity of Father, Son and Holy Spirit, or the Wholk 
FuLNKsa of the Godhead, corresponding to the heat, light, and emanat- 
ing influence of the San, or of the soul, body, and proceeding operation in 
man, consequently that He alone is tho only true Object of love and wor- 
ship, in whom is the Father, for " whoso seeth Him seeththe J'ather. 

in o der ro still further confirm tho heavenly doctrine of the Supremo 
Divinity of our blessed Lord, and to show tho falsity of the present pre- 
vailing doctrine which divides the Godhead into three persons, " the same 
in substance, equal in power and glory," or, as it is expressed by tho 
Athanasian Creed, three persons, "each of whom by himself is God and 
Lord" {a doctrine which, and tho assertion is made with all charity and 
respect for tho numerous class who think otherwise, has no existence 
whatever in the Word, and was entirely unknown in the Church until 
about tho time of the Nicene Clouncil), it is thought proper to adduce the 
following passages from tho Word. l<^rst of all , to prove the Unity of the 
Divine Being, see {Dout. vi. 4.) " Hoar O Israel, the Lord our God is Onk 
Lord." This divine truth is repeated by the blessed Jksus in Mark xii. 
29. " I am Jehovah and there is none else." Isa. xlv. 18, xlv. 5. " I, even I, 
am Ile.and there is No God with Mo." Dent, xxxii, 39. There is none other 
God but One" 1 Cor. viii. 4. "Thou art the God, oven thou Ai.onk, of all 
the kingdoms of the earth," 2 Kings xix. 15. " Onk is your Father which 
ia in Heaven" Matt, xxiii. 9. Lot us learn, with grateful reverence, who 
this our Heavenly Father, Lord, and God is. Every passago of the fol- 
lowing evidence is refulgent with the light of divine truth, for they proceed 
from Him who is the Truth itself, " Unto usaCniLD is born, untousaSoN 
is given, and the government shall be upon His shoulders, and His name 
sliiiil Ixicallcd. Wonderful, Counsellor, the Mioiity God, the Evkrlabt- 
i\(>FATHKU,tho Prince ofl'EAOE," Isa. ix.G. "Thou O Jehovah art our 
Fatiikr, our Uedekmer, thy Name is from everlasting," Isa. Ixiii. 16. 
" Surely God is in Thee, and there is None else, there is no god, verily 
thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour" Isa. 
xlv. 14. 15. This is said in reference to His veiling over Ills divine glory 
with the Human nature. "Thou shalt know that I, Jehovah am thy 
Saviour and Redekmer, thoMiOHTY Onk of Jacob" Isa. lx,I6. " T/iere 
is no God else beside me, a just God and a Saviour, there is none beside 
mc look unto me; and be ye eaved, all the ends of the earth, for I am God 
and there is none else" Isa. xlv. 21. 22. " Thy Makeu is thy Husband ; 
Jehovah of hosts, is His name, and thv Rkdkkmer the Holy One of 
Israel; the God op thk whole earth shall He be called," Isa. liv. 5. 
There can bo no uncertainty as to wko is meant by these announcements. 
"Thus saith Jehovah the King of Israel and His Redeemer, Jichovah 
of Hosts; I am thn First, and I am tho Last, and boside me there is t.*. 
God," laa. xliv. 6, " I am Jehovah thy God, the Holy One oflsrael tt. 



'HI 



I » 



■ 1 • r 



w 



Appendix TO THE artizan's atiTDEf., 



(I 



i i| 



rtAVioi'R" Isa. xliii. 3, " TIiou has? ro(!oom<Ml mo, O.Tetiovait C,or> of 
truth," l*s. xxxi.5, " 1 will liolp tlicc, siiitli .Ikhovah aiidtliy Kkukkmk.u, 
tlip Holy Olio of Jsrncl," I.sn. xli. 14, " Ah for our Ukdkk.muk, .Iichovah 
i)F HosTH IS HirNamk, t.lio lloly Oiic of Israol," Isa. xlvil. 4., " lliun 
Sflith Jkiiovaii thy UKnioKArKK. aiulllo tliat formod thoofroiu tho womb; 
J am .Ikiiovaii that makoth nil t,/iinf/.i, that Htrt'tchcth forth Iho heavens 
iilone, that sprcadeth ahroad tho earth fiy mi/sclf," Isa. xliv. 24, '■ I, even 
I, am .iKrcoN^Aii and bn,sid<!s Mo tueue' is no fSAVioiru," Isa. xliii. Jl. 
" Thus saith. Jehovah, your IIkdeemku, tho Holy ()n« of Israel," ver. 14, 
" With everlasting kindness will I have mercy onthee, saith Jehovah thy 
KuDKKMKK," laa. llv. 8, " Thugsaitli Jehovah thy Kkdeemer, the Holy 
t)no of Israol; 1 am Jehovah thy Gon which teacheth thee to prolit, 
which loadeth thee by tlieway thou shouldst go," Ina. xlviii. 17 " With 
evorlasting kindness will I have mercy on tlieo, Raith Jkhovah thy lio- 
i>KEMKR, Isa. iv. 8, " Their IlKDKKMER is strong, Jehovah or Hosts is His 
Mamo," Jer. 1. o4. " I am thy (jJod from the landof I'^gypt, and thou shalt 
know no Gov but Me, for there is No Savioitr Heside Mb" Hos. xiii. 4, 
" Thus saith Jehovah, that formed thee O Israel, foar not, for I have 
rk,i>eh:mkt> thee," Isa. xliii. 1, "Ho strong, fear not; behold your (ion 
will oome with vengeance, even Ood with a recompense, he will come and 
Have you," Isa. xxxv, 4, "The Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song, 
hu also is bocomo my salvation," Isa. xii. 2, " Beliold Jkhovah (jIdd 
shall come witU strong hand, and His arm shall rule for Him,Heshall feed 
his Hock like a sbepheFd," Isa. xl. lO.-ll. The Saviour lays claim to this 
title, John x. 11. " L«t tho words of my mouth, and the meditation of my 
lioart, ho accejitable in thy sight O Jkhovah, my strength, and my Ukdkk.m- 
KR," Ps.xix. 14, ," But God shall Redeem my soul from the power of tho 
i*rave, ho wUl recoivo me," Ps. xllx. 16, " I will also praise theewitJi tho 
psaltery, even thy truth, O my God; unto thee will I sing witli tho harp, 
thou Holy One of Israel. My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing un*o 
thee; and my soul, which thou hast RKDEKMKD,"Psa. lxxi22-23, "J<'orGodis 
my King.of old,workingsa/t)aMo>iin the midst of the earth," Psa. Ixxiv. 12. 
" Tliey remembered that God was their rock, and tho high Gou thoir 
Redeemer," Psa. Ixxviii. 35. " I will praise theoO Jehovah my God,-^ 
thouhast delivered my noulfrom the lowent hell," Psa. Ixxxvi. 12-13, "IMess 
Jkhovah, O my soul, and forget notall hislienellts, who redeemeth thy life 
from destruction ; who crownoth thee with loving kindness and tender mer- 
cies," Psa. ciii. 2-4, "Let Israol hope in Jehovah, , for with Je- 
hovah there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption, and 
ho shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities" Psa. cxxx, 
7-S, " O God Jkhovah, the strength of my salvation, thou 
hast covered my head in the day of battle," Psa. cxl. 7. By winch "s 
signified, hirnble acknowledgement that redemption, protection, and con- 
sequently deliverance from hell, are from tlieLoRo alono, " O givothankt: 
unto Jehovah, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Let ihn 
redeemed of Jkhovah say .so, whom/te hath redeemed from tho handof tho 
enemy." Ps, cvii. 1-2, " .Jehovah liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let 
the, Gon of my salvation bo exalted," Ps, xviii. 46, " And they remembered 
that (JoD was their Rock, and the high God thoir Redeemer," Ps. Ixxviii, 
y'j, " They forgot God their Saviour, which had done groat things in 
Egypt," Ps. cvi, 21, "The salvation of the righteous is of Jehovah; heis 
their strength in the time of trouble," " Truly in JKiiovAUourGoDis Wie 
salvation of I.^raol, Jer. iii. 23. In tho Now Testament, James calls our 
IMessed Redeemer, the " Lord of glory." The Lord of glory can bo noiio 
other than the King of glory. " Who is this Kino of glory? Jehovah of 
Ho.sts,heis the King of glory," Ps, xxiv., 10. In Rev. xix, 16. the Lord as 
to tho Word, is described as having on his vesturo and on his thigh, ananio 
written, Kino o^ Kings, and Lord of Lords. This sacred truth is re- 
echoed by Paul when he declares Christ to be " Tho blessed and only 
Potentate, tho King of Kings, and Lord of Lords, wlio only hath immortal- 
ity," I. Tim. vi. iB. Elsewhere he says, " For of him, and by him, and 
through him aio all things ; to whom be glory forever. /Vmen, "Jehovah 
thy God in the midst of tliee is mighty, he will save, ho will rejoice over 
,f," Zeph. iii. 17, " I will rejoice in Jkhovah, I will joy in tho 



thee with joy, 

God of my salvation," Ilab, iii. 18, 



1 will look unlo Jt-uovAU, I w'U 



mn 



Ef.. 



^VATi Gon of 

y Kki>ki:mk.k, 

KK, .Ikhdvah 

ii. 4. , " riinn 

mi tlio womb; 

h thn hcavcuH 

. 24, "J, even 

Isa. xliii. 11. 

sraol," vcr. 14, 

Jkhovaii thy 

MKR, tho Jluly 

thoo to i)rt)lit, 

lii. 17" With 

OVAH thy Ito- 

)F Hosts is His 

amlthoa shalt 

" llos. xiii.4, 

lot, for I l»avo 

hold your Uon 

will como and 

:li and my sonfj, 

IkHOVAH G«)I> 

m,li«shallfci'd 
ys claim to this 
(Mlitation of my 
id iny Kkdkkm- 
ho power of tlio 
to tliee witli tho 

with tho harp, 
'hen I Ming unW» 

23, "For God is 

' I'sa. Ixxiv. 12. 
high God thoir 
VAii my Gou,-^ 
cvi. 12-13, "lUcss 
ideemeth thy lifo 
and tender mer- 
, ,for with Je- 
redemption, and 
' Psa. ex XX, 
mlvafion, tlioii 
7. Uy whicli "i 
toction, and con- 
" O give thanks 
orevor, I^et ilio 
1 tho hand of tho 
ny rocli; and let 
hey remembered 
Ell," I's. Ixxviii. 
great things in 
Jkiiovah; lie is 
Hour God is Uie 
James calls our 
lory can bo iKnio 
•y? Jeiiovau of 
:, 16. the Lord as 
Ills thigh, a name 
icred truth is re- 
ilessed and onlv 
r hath immortal- 
and by him, and 
nen, " Jehovah 
will rejoice over 
1 will joy in tlio 
JtUOVAlI, I will 



APPENDIX TO THE ARIIZAN'h GLIDE. 



19 



wait Tor tho Hon of pijf f^ftlrnfhvx my (;on shall hoar tiie" Micah. vil. 7, 
'• Tho voice othlm thatcrieth in tho wilderness, I'rejjare ye the way of the 
.iKiiftVAU, makeHtralght in the desert a highway lor our (ion. Kvery valley 
sliiill Ite exulted, and every mountain and hill shall bo made low," Isa. xl. 
;i-4. 'ty which is signified, the mission of .lohii th(> Itaptist preparing tho 
Wfiv for Christ's Advent by the )>reaching of repentance, biiptism, and the 
rcniixsion of sins, at a time when there were no truths left in the Church, 
liiit what were falsitied and made of none ellect. Uy "every valley sliall bo 
exalted, andevi/ry mountain and hill shall be laid low," is not meant these 
natural objects but theexaltation into heavon ot thos«! who aro meek and 
lowly in heart, or poor in spirit.and the removal and remission to their final 
abode of the wicked who have lived in the prido of self-love and tholovoof 
the world, for all such avert from themselves the divino protection, and aro 
in conjunction with hell Tho influx of divino truth flowing into 
their torlora, when tho Lora comes to judgment, causes such oxcoodiiig 
imin nnd torment 'o the w'cked, *hat they actually cast themsolvea liead- 
loiig into hell Thr,t the Lord executed such a judgment when on earth, 
is inostevidonfc both iroin the literal and spiritual sense of many passages 
in the Word ; reterencci will o made to some of them in what follows, and 
that tho last judgment ibn^told in the Kevelation, and many otherplaces, 
has also taken place, may be seen proved in the writings to be mentioned 
jjffsently. It is to bo noted, however, that these general judgmcutg do 
not take place in the natural world, but in the spiritual world, into which 
all enter after death, •• after death the judgment." To continue, in tho 
siiblimo vision de.scribed by Isaiah, chap, vi., tho prophet rolrtos that tho 
seraphim cried, " Holy, holy, holy is Jehovah ok llcvrs, tho whole 
earth is full of his glory." xlio message given to Isaiah ,it that time is 
quoted in John J.:ii. 3S, A, whore it is written, "These things spako 
Esaias.when he saw His glory, and spako of Him," and the apostle 
a|)plies the whole as having reference to tho Incarnate Gcjd in tho person 
of tho Hiessed Saviour then on earth. The Hebrew term, Jkuovah, 
retained in tho above passages, is always expressive of self exist<'nce, uiu 
derived Being, and the Divine princijile as to Love, while tho term, God, 
is [iredicated of, and corresponds to, the Divine principle, as to Wisdom, 
or, what is the same. Truth, which always emanates or proceeds from 
the former, as light proceeds from fire or heat. It was us the Divino 
Truth, or the Word, that tho J^ord was made flesh and dwelt among 
us, but still he did not separate from Himself tlit> Divine Good or Love, 
(lenot(!d by the Father As previously statinl, this (existed in Him in but 
a comparatively small degree at the first, and glorilication was a gradual 
work, extending over the whole of His earthly life, j)rogres8ing only as 
what was merely human was cast out, or made "perfect through suffer- 
ings," ■ 'itil at last He comprehended in His glorious Person "all tho 
fulness of tho Godhead bodily," and became God oven as to His Human- 
ity having all power in heaven and in earth." To have all powtr is to 
])ossess nothing less than oxelusivo and sui)remo Divinity, and iiotwith- 
stiinding the deplorable fact Hiat this heavenly doctrine is not recognized 
ill the prevailing (;hiirch, still it is the veriest truth in tlio universe, thai 
Ho was the great .lehovah, or "God manifest in the flesh," [ITini. iii. 10], 
and also " over all, (iod blessed for over," llom. ix. f), for " by Him were 
all fhhiffs created that are in iseaven and that are in earth, visible and 
invisible, whether they be throries, or dominions, or princiiialities or 
powers; all things were created by Him and for Him, and He is be/ore alt 
things, and by Him alt fltiiif/s consist." Col. B. 16, J7. With all this 
evidei' ' before us wo may well unite with Judo in saying, " To the only 
wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, 
both now and ever. Amen." 

We may boo from the above passages as in the very light of heaven, tho 
great and glorious truth that the lilesseu Jbsus is Jehovah, the God ov 
Heaven and Earth, thb Lord op Glory, the first and the last, 
THE Mighty God, the Fverlastinu Father, the Creator op Ali 
THiNos, the Redeemer op the World, God manifest in the Flkhh, 
THE Kino op Kings and Lord of Lords, over all, God blksskd for 
KVER, a Just ood and a SAAaouit, resides whom there ih none else, 

AMD A8 BITCH IS ENTITLED TO OUR EXCLUSIVE LoVE AND ADORATION.- 



20 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANs' OUIt)E. 



And liore wo cannot omit notlclnjj tho ominouR silence which porvartr« 
not only thn abuvu panhagcH of Scriutuio, but also tlio entiro Word, rcH- 
pcctinjr tlio doctrino wlilch woiicar tliundiTotl forth frunisonia.iy pulpitH, 
regarding a Son of God born Ironi ctt'riiity, called the Second Person of 
the i'rlnity, who came into the world in order to Hatisty what Is cailed tiio 
vindictive justice of the first Pcraon, and appease l>. , wrath and vengeunco 
against the human raceonnccount uttheviolat/or. ofhltt lawofwluchthoy 
wercKuilty, by takini^on himself lliut ])unishmont,wbluh woj <! otherwise 
have de!*cended on the Hinner, tiie iuiplicatlon boine. that tiiu attribiit(>H 
and perfections ofGod the Father, rendered itlmpoasioleforhim to forj^Jvo 
the sinner until the majesty of liis outraged law was vindicated and satl*. 
tied to the uttermutit, by the iulnction of adequate punishment eitlier en 
tlie hinocent, or on tlie guilty. The great majority of professing Christians 
retain tills belief, tog aiior with tlie doctrine of three distinct I'erHons in 
the Gcdbead, most of us having been educated in it from our infancy and 
BO are not to blame in conseqnenco, more especially as these doctrines are 
nsualiy lield up as an inoxplicablo raysttsry which it in almost a profaua. 
tion either to investigate or dispute. A man under such circumstances is 
not to blame for holding this belief in ignorance, simplicit}r and innocence, 
even although it is unscriptural, for lie will bo instructed in the real truth 
in tlie next world, if not in this, and if liis heart is good he will receive it 
most gratefully, for goodness always desires truth and union with it. but, 
if, ou the other liand, a man should say that since Christ obeyed tlie law 
lor him and sufTerod in liis room and stead, therefore he is at liberty to do 
as he pleases, and forthwitli carries that thought into action by plunging 
into u career of Ar/iou'ft tfoi/ and wickedness, under the belief that every- 
thing will beset riglit at last by a simple cry for mercy, and a " Lord save 
me,'" uttered on his death boJ, sucii a line of thought and consequent 
action would be perffctty irtfamous, and after deatli the ruling lovo of 
Buch a man will infallibly entail a rigliteoua retribution bv carrying him 
to his lilca in liell, and what is wonderful, he goes there of his own accord. 
Tlie power and love of evil draws him there. This is what we are tore- 
warned to fear, Luko xii. Ti, It is not God 'vho sond« him there, for it is 
impossible for llim wlio is Mercy itself, to damn any one. The " Loui> in 
good to all, and his tender mercies are over all His works," thus oven to 
the lowest hell. The true reason is " Ye will not come unto me that yo 
may have life." " Your iniquities, liave separated between you and your 
Gou, and your sins have hid his face from you." To return to th 
question of the Trinity, as commonly received, it is impossible to siipprcs 
the enquiry, why is ittliat the second and third Persons of the Trinity, as 
described by this scheme (the attributes and perfections of each person 
being essentially the same), have not, or do not, put forth an equalclaiin 
with the tirst person, to full, perfect, and complete satisfaction on account 
of Iheir violated law? Yet hero we have them described as not only put- 
ting forth no sucli claims, but the second person is represented as coming 
forward and drinking the very dregs of the bitter cup of His Father's 
wrath, even to sulToring the accursed death of the cross, and by this means 
satisfying or appeasing the so called Divine displeasure of the first person. 
One Doctrine of that new Dispensation whicli cometh down from God 
out of lieaven, drawn from the Word, is, that God is Mercy Itself and 
Love Itself, and that wrath, fury, anger and vengeance areas far removed 
Irom the Divine nature as heaven is from hell, yea, and infinitely farther. 
These are qualities whicli could not coosistontly be ascribed to u good 
man, because ho would not be good if ho possessed them, wherefore it is 
blasphemy to ascribe them to God. O when will mankind learn that it 
was love, love, unutterable, Injinite Love, that brought our Heavenly 
Father into the world to save and redeem His erring children at the very 
period when they were about to bo engulfed in eternal ruin through the 
undue preponderance of the powers ot hell over mankind. Most true it 
is that " God so loved the world that ho gave his only, begotten Son that 
whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life," 
John iii. 16, most true that " In His love and in His pity he redeemed us," 
Isa. xiii. 9, for " God was in Christ reconciled and reconciling guilty 
sinners to Himself," being moved to that infinite condescension by a 
"love which passoth knowledge," Eph. iii. ID. Zacharias spoko 



7 

h 



ti. 



hlcli pprrartfn 
iro Word, res- 
inia.iy pulpitH, 
ond I'orsoii of 
fnt i« cailod tlio 
and VL'ngeiiuiio 
wofwIiKilithoy 
oi!(l otherwise 
t tliu attributes 
■liim to forj^lvo 
:utcd and satU- 
nuut either en 
iHing Cliritttiang 
net I'orHuuH lu 
ur infancy and 
^e doctrines are 
uoHt a protaua< 
irounititancpa is 
and innoconco, 
n the real truth 
e will receive) It 
)n with it. But, 
obeyed the law 

at liberty to do 
)n by plunging 
lief that every- 
da " Lord save 
and consequont 

ruling lovo of 
carrying him 

lis own accord, 
at we are lore- 
m there, for it it) 

The "Loiu) in 
s," thus oven to 
unto wie that yo 
in you and your 
3 rt'turn to th 
sibhi to supprcs 
)f the Trinity, aa 
of each person 
h an equal claim 
ction on account 
as not only pat- 
ented as coming 
of His Father's 
nd by this moans 
ftho first person. 

down from (.iod 
Mercy Itself and 
roas far removed 
nlinitely farthor. 
Bribed to ugood 
1, wherefore it is 
(ind learn that it 
\\t our Heavenly 
Idren at the very 
ruin through the 
ad. Most true it 
Bgotten Son that 
everlasting life," 
he redeemed us," 
econciling guilty 
idcscension by a 
Zacharias spoko 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



21 



th" truth when ho said, " Blpssod be tho I.oRn Ood of Israel, for Ifn 
hath vmted and reileemtd His people," Luke 1.08; also aged Simeon, 
when he said, " Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, 
according to thy word, for mine ei/es have seen tin/ snlvntion," Luke 
il , 29 30. This was aid of tho only Begotten Son of tiod (born of tho 
virgin) in whom was m Father, of whom it was written, ' UehoiU a 
virgin shall conceive and .oar a Mn, and shall call his name Immanuel," 
Ina. vli. 14. Yes, joyful thought, lio was indeed and now Is, (Jon witu 
IS. so that all can say " Lo, this is our (ioo, wo have waited lor Him, 
we will bo glad and rejoice in His salvation." Tho sufferings of Christ 
were great, beyond all human comprelicnsion, and tlioy w<Te endured 
BOlely on our account and for our salvation, but not to satisfy or appease 
tho wrath of »nv one, but to satisCy I lis own Diviuo Love, for that 
desires nothing in comparison with man's salvation, and that it may 
communicate all itsfuinessof joy and unspeakable d 'light to every soul 
it has created. It is thus that " (Jod commendeth His l^ovo toward us, in 
that wliile wo were yet sinners Christ died for us," Koin. v. ?. And not only 
PC, but " we also joy in (Jod through our Lord Jksus Christ, by whom 
WB have now received the atonement," vor. IL It is thus seen that it is 
M'K who received the atonement, not God, asiscommonly supposed. It is 
man who wont astray; became wicked, and thus became an enemy and 
needed reconciliation, at-onc-mont, or being brought at-ono or in agree- 
ment with his Maker. And this that InOnitc Lovo that never slumbers 
nor Bleeps has been incessantly endeavouring to do ever iiinco man 
diclined from goodness, for it followed him step by stop in his downward 
career, until at the very moment when hell was about to claim him for 
her own, tho groat Jehovah assumed tho Humanity, thus supplying the 
lust link of the golden chain which was thenceforward to unito God 
more closely to His erring children, and enable Him to bdcorao their 
Saviour. In this Humanity Ho encountered tho powers of hell, and 
executed a judgment in the spiritual world, on those infernal hosts who 
were infesting and obsessing mauklnd, the indwelling Divinity sustaining 
the Humanity, and enabling it to overcome in tho midst of combats, 
temptations and suflerings so dreadful that it is impossible for tno mind 
ot man to conceive of them, among tlio last being tho temptations "in tho 
carden, and on the cross. Many of these combats arc described in tho 
internal sonso of tho word in the following, and many other places which 
cannot be mentioned here by reason of their abundance : Ps. xvlii . xxii., 
XXXV., xl. 1 2, V, 1, 6, Ixix., oil. 11, 1., cxxx., 1, 2., Isa. liii., lix, IfJ. 19, 
Ixiii. 1. 6., Ixiv. 1, 13., Mai, iv., 1, 3., Matt. iv. 1, ,10 xxvi. 38, 44, Mark 13, 
Luke xxii., 42, 44, John xiv 30, xvi. 33. In these passages the 
temptations, combats, and victories referred to are described in a Divine 
manner by mere correspondences, cacjyaessessing an internal or spiritual 
meaning. 'These are some of tho ways in which tho " kindness and lovo 
of God our Saviour toward man appeared," Titus Hi. 4, " This is tho true 
God and eternal life," 1 John v. 20, and the Beneficent Being whoso 
kindness we are exhorted to imitate, " by forgiving one another even as 
God in Christ hath forgiven us." Kphes. iv. 32, This is the right translation 
of tho passage. In the English Bible it reads, " even as God for Christ's 
sake hath forgiven you," but this sense is unscriptural, and does not 
exist in the original. Tho prevalent custom of asking mercies from God 
for Christ's sake is the result of ignorance regarding tho true God In tho 
mind of the worshipper, who in such a case is actually thinking of two or 
three Goda, although he does not say so with his lips. " Snve us for Thy 
name's sake," and " Kcdeom us for Thy mercies sake,'' are common 
expressions in the Word. Tho great Jehovah, whom wo have seen to be 
none other than Christ Himself, says "I, even I, am He tliat blotteth 
out thy transgressions for mine oion sake," " Whatsoever yo ask in my 
name, 1 will do it," and thus it always is. 

The question will now be asked, if these statements are true, how does 
it come that wrath, anger, and vengeance are so frequently ascribed to 
God in the Word ? Tho answer is that these expressions contain appear- 
ances of truth, but not the real truth. Many things are thus cxpress-ed in 
the Word. It speaks of the rising of the sun and the going down of tho 
same, bocauae it appears to do so. It tells us to pluck out our right cyo 



oo 



Al'PENmX TO THE ARTIZANb GUIDE. 



I* 

is ' 



and cat oflTour r}(»ht haiifT, if thoy offend us. It tolls us to tako no tfioiishk 
for our life, wli'^.- w<i sball eat, or what we shall drink, or for our body, 
what wo shall put on. Does any man in his senses act thus? It tells uh 
that it is almost impossible for a rich man to enter heaven. It tolln lu 
that Christ camo not into tlio world to promote peace on thg earth, but 
rattier division, when neverliieless lie is the Prince of Peace. It tells un 
that unless a mar. hates his father, and mother, and wife and children, 
and brothers, and sisters, yei and his own life also, he cannot be Christ'H 
disciple. Every one knows that tliese expressions are not to be undei- 
Btood literally, and so it is in the case of anger, wrath, and vengiiuico 
when sucii qualities are ascribed to (Jod, but it is most true that to tlu' 
wicked ho appears to !)e invested with such attributes. The children of 
Israel are described as an evil and perverse ginieration who did always err 
ii! their heart, and knew not the ways of jkiiovau, Ps. xcv. 10. Their 
7ino is described as the "vine of Sodom and of the fields of Gomorrah; 
their grapes are grapes of gall and their clusters are bitter; their wine is 
the poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of asps," Deut. xxxii. ii2 33. 
15y tliese correspondences is described a most intense degree of wicked- 
iicss, 4S pertaining to the interiors of that people. Welind incousetpHiice 
of tliis, that at the givinj; of the Law on Mount Sinai, that "the glory oi' 
jKUOVAit was like devouring lire in the eyes of the children of T.srael," 
Ex. xxiv. 17. On the other hand, when Moses and Aaron, Nadab and 
Abihu and seventy of the elders of Israel (seventy, as weilas seven, in tho 
Word, are numbers which are expressive of holiness, or what is good or 
sacred), ascended into the mountain, "they saw the Cod of Israel ; and 
there was under his feet, as it were, a paved work of a sapphire stone, and 
as it were the body of heaven in clearness," ver. 10. Now mark tlie 
contrast, the great Jkuovah was seen under these various aspccls 
altogether according to the state of the difl'erent sjtectatois. It was only 
the " wicked and slothful servant," who jmsscssed the "evil ey(!" by 
which ho perceived his Lord lobe "a hard man, reaping wheri! he had 
not sown, anu gathering when; he had not strew<)d," Matt. xxv. 21. 
From this cause proceeds the cry of the wicked to the mountains and 
rocks, ' Fall on us, and hide us from the face of llim that sittetli on tlio 
throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb," Itev. vi. IC. The sole cause of 
his dreadful appearance to them, lay in themselves, not in God, thuscou- 
firming the Divine words, '• \Vith the merciful thou wilt shew tliyselt 
merciful; with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upriglit; with tlio 
pure thou wilt shew ''.yself pure; and with the froward thou wilt hliow 
fliyself froward," Ps. xviii. '2C 26. Thus, when the Word declares that 
the Loud is gracious, and full of compassion, slow to anger and of gnfut 
mercy, and says further. " Fury it.' not in me," it expresses a realu-n\h, 
bui when in the letter of the Word, jvrath and auger an* ascribed to <i(>D, 
only involves an apparent truth, for the iuteriuil sense of the Word 
teaches, and the regenerated heart of every child of God will teh him, 
that the " Lord is good, that His mercy is everlasting, anu that his tiulli 
cudureth to all g(uierations." It is most tru? in overy caso that it is " cvh 
which slays the wicked," for the Divine Lovk most intensely desires to 
elevate all to heaven, and would do so in every case, if man 'wou'd oiilV 
make use of that free wil' with which it has cntKjvvod him, to choose iiJ't! 
and goodness, (for man's willing co-operation in fhis case iu indispensable i, 
and thus suffer himself to bo led by the Loud into heaven. Tlie powers o< 
evil are continually pressing for admiss'on *nto man^ desiring Tintiiin? 
more than to de.«';-oy him soiil and body, and arc? cotitinuallv rostni!iK>u 
from accomplisujng their Infernal worlf ^by nothing less tfuin iiifnito 
power, but when infinite wisdom, or t'lo U Vino nrotfidence, perceives 
that the removal of tho wicked is nccessaf >* lor tlio prebe>*vallon ot tlio 
good, the law of permission can no longer be withhe'u, u'.;c evd a^'oiits 
perform tho evil work, and th?s actunny appmrc to be a» if dtre by tiie 
Loll'), and is so expressed in tlic VVord. *• Ho slew faminis kings, fur llis 
mercy endnrcth for ever," ■■ Ho sent evil angeis among them,'- and so 
on. Many other things are aescribod m Jie Word according to apj.eur- 
ances, such for instance as tho I^oud repenting, being grieved at tlio 
heart, &c., tho int«'rnal sense of these oxpressiona l»oiug very difl'ereut 
from what apyears iu tUo letter. 



)E. 



ak« no tMouf,'ht 
r for our body, 
us? It tells iiH 
von. It tollH u« 
1 tho earth, but 
aco. It tells us 
o and cliildrcii, 
mot be Cii list's 
ot to bo uiulor- 
aud vcngeiuico 
rno tliat to tlie 
riie children of 
o did always err 
xcv. 10. Their 
3 of Gomorrah; 
their wine is 
ut. xxxii. ii'l 33. 
'greu of wickcd- 
d in con.seiiui lice 
at "the tritiry of 
Idren of Israel," 
iroii, Nadal) and 
lias seven, in the 
what is good or 
d of Israel ; and 
)phiro stone, and 
Now mark the 
various aspects 
ors. It was only 
) " evil ey(i" by 
ng where lie hud 
Matt. XXV. 21. 
mountains and 
lat Hittotli on the 
The solo cause of 
in CiOD, thus con- 
wilt sluiw tliyselt 
upright; with tlio 
d thou wilt shew 
ord declares that 
iiger and of gnuit 
esses a realu-nih, 
H ascribed to <>(>u, 
enso of the Word 
jiod will tell him, 
luu that his tculU 
aso that it is " evil 
utenseiy desires to 
f man wou'd only 
Idia, to choose lij'a 
e is iiidlspensaWo), 
11. rho powers Ji 
desiring no'iiiiis 
tinuallv restrained 
less liiun intiidto 
ddonce, perceives 
r(;b«''vation ot liio 
0, ai:c ovd a'^enls 
i aa if dcre hy tiie 
vnrs kings, for 11 is 
ug them,'- and so 
cording to ai);,ear- 
ng grieved at tho 
liug very difl'ereut 



APPENDIX TtJ 



\ 



THE 
if 



ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



23 



We will now jirocoed to conclude the gratofUl task of shewing that rrio 
Blkssed Jesus is the only Only Tuue Object of worship, and as such, 
ought to bo recognized in the Church, and by every linman being. In 
doing this wo do not anticipate any objections from professed Christians, 
when woaay that it would no quite safe to emulate the example of tho 
Ajxistles ou ea«'th and that of the angels in heaven. After our Blessed 
I{i!Qecmer had »sceuded up on high, it is written, that he sat down " on 
the right hand of God." By this is signified, that Ho even as to His 
Humanity took possession of Divine Omnipotence, having "all power 
given unto Him in heaven and in earth," for in llim dwelt all the fulness 
of tho Godhead bodily, Col. ii. 9. 

After the ascension, it is written concerning the disciples, " And they 
worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy." We read 
further that" the^ lifted up their voice with one accord and said. Loud 
thou art God, which hast made heaven and earth, and tho sea, and all 
that in them is," Acts iv.24. And Stephen died, " calling upon God, and 
saying, Lord Jesus receive my spirit," Acts vii. 59. 

Concerning worship in heaven, we read that " the four and tw(>nty elders 
[by wbomaro sig utiedtho superior angelic powers], fell down before Him 
that sat on the throne and worshipped Him that liveth for ever and over, 
and cast their crjwns before tho throne saying. Thou art worthy () Louu to 
receive glory and honour and power; for iiiou hast created all things and 
for thy pleasure they are and were creal:;j' *• Itov. Iv. 10, 11. Chaj)tor v. 
ver. 10 records that " the four beasts and iou. a^ twenty elders, [signify- 
ing the nosts in tho superior heavens], /cW down before the Lamb, and 
gave utterance to the sublime glorilication recorded in ver. 9. 10. " And 
they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take tho Book and to 
open tho seals thereof; for Thou wast slain, uiid hast redeemed us to Goi> 
by Thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, aud people, and nation ; 
and hast made us unto our Goi> kings and priests, and we shall reign ou 
the earth." " And they sung a new song," signifies an acknowledgment 
and glorilication of the Lord, that Ho alone is the Judge, Kedeemer and 
Saviour, thus the God of heaven and earth. These things are contained 
in the song which they sung, and tho things they contain are also sigiii- 
lied: as an acknowledgment that tho Lord is the Judge in this: "Thou 
art worthy to take the Book and to open the seals thereof." That He is 
the Redeemer in this, " For Thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to (Jod 
by Thy blood," that Ho is the Saviour Va this, " Thou hast made us unto 
our God kings and priests, and wo shall reifjx: on the earth," by which is 
signified, that from the Lord they are in wisdom from divine truths, and 
in love from divine good, for all such are spiritual kings and priests, and 
will be in His kingdom. Ho in them, and they in Iliin: that He is tho 
God of heaven and earth, in this: " They fell down aud worshipped Him 
that liveth for ever and ( ver," see ver. 14. Since the acknowledgement of 
tho Lord alone as tho God of heaven and -^nrth, and of tho Divinity of 
His Humanity, and that in no other wpv cou..l He bc^ called a Kedeemer 
and Saviour, was not before in the Churcii, 'f is called anew song. After 
this it is recorded that ten thousand times ten thousand and tliousands 
of thousands, wo»o heard saying, with a loud voice, " Vtoi-thy U the 
Lamb (hat was slain, to receive power: anu riches, and wisdom, and 
strength, and honour and glory, and blessiu^'," denoting confession and 
gloriflcation from the heart, by the angels of the inferior heavens, that 
to the Lord's Divine Humanity belong Omnipotence, Omniscience, 
divine good, divine truth, and all felicity, " And every creature wluch is 
in heaven, aud on the earth , and under tho earth, and such as are in tho sea, 
and all that are in them heard I saying, lilessing, and honour, and 
glory, and power, bo unto Him who siLioth upon the throne, and unto 
the Lam » for ever and ever," ver. 13. By wliich is sigiiilied, coail'ssion 



and glorilication by tho angels of tho lowest heavens, that in f ae Loud 
from eternity and thence in His Divine Humanity, is tho all ot heaven 
and the church, divine g»od, and divine truth, and divine power, and 
Irom Him in those who are in heaven and the church, " Afttir tins I 
beheld, and lo a great muhitude which no man could number, ot all 
nations, and tribes, and tongues, ttood before tho throne and betoro tim 
Lamb, clothed with white robes aud palms in their hauds; audcnod 



1 
1 1* 



■ d 



M 



Ji 



24 



APPENDIX TO THE AltTIZANS' GUIDE. 



It 



with a loud voice, eaylng, " Salvation to our God tliat sitteth upon the 
throne, and to the Lamb." chap. vii. 9, 10. To cry with a loud voice si<r, 
nilies an acknowledgment f'-om the heart that the Lord is their Saviour. 
"Salvation to our God that sitteth upon the throne, and to the Lamh," 
elgiiifies that the Lord is Salvation itself, and that the salvation of all ia 
ftom Ilirn, thus that He is their lledcemcr and Saviour. By Him that 
sittclh upon the throne, and the Lamb is meant the Lord alone; by 
Him that sitteth upon the throne His Divinity from which Ho came 
forth; and by the " Lamb," His Divine Humanity. That one Being is 
meant, may bo seen couflrmed by vor. 17, where the Lamb is described as 
being in the viidst of the throne. " And all the angels stood round about 
the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell down before 
God on their faces and worshipped God, saying, Amen, blessing and 

§lory and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, 
e unto our God for over and ever. Amen," vcr. 11, 12. By this great 
company is signified, all in the universal heaven ; " And lell before tho 
throne on their faces and worshipped God," signifies, the humiliation of 
their heart, and from humiliation, adoration of the Lord. " Blessing, 
and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving," signifies the divine spiritual 
things of the Lord; " And honour and power and might," signifies tho 
divine celestial things of the Lofd; "Be unto our God for ever and 
ever," signifies these things in the Lord, and from the Lord to oternitv. 
" And there were great voices in heaven, saying. The kingdoms of the 
World are become tuo kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ, and Ho 
shall reign for ever and ever," Rev. xi. 16, signifies, celebration by tho 
♦tuj^i-'ls, because heaven and the Church are become the Lord's as they 
weio f :)m the beginning, and because they are now in subjection also to 
His Divine Humanity, consequently that now, both as to His Humanity 
and Divinity, tho Lord will reign over heaven and the church to eter- 
nity. " And the four and twenty elders, that sat before God on th wr 
thrones, fell on their faces, and worshipped God," vor. IG, signifies an 
acknowledgment by all the angels of heaven, that the Lord is the God 
of heaven and earth, and supvcmo adoration; saying, " We give thoo 
thanks, O Lord God Almighty, who art, wlu wast, and who art to 
come," ver. 17. signifies a confession and glorification by the angels of 
heaven, that it is the Lord who is, who has life and power from Himself, 
and who rules all things, because Ho alone is eternal and infinite; 
" because thou hast taken thy great power and hast reigned," ver. 17, 
t'l^nifies the now heavi n and the new Church where they acknowledge 
J I im to be the only God. " And they sing the song of Moses, the servant 
of God, and the song of the Lamb," Rev. xv. 3, 4, signifies, a confession 
grounded in charity, and in a life according to the commandments of tho 
Law, which is the decalogue, and in a boliei in the Divinity of the Lord's 
Humanity; saying, " Great and marvellous aro Thy works. Lord God 
Almiouty," signifies that all things in the world, in heaven, and in tko 
Church were created and made by the Lord, from divine love by Divine 
Wisaom. "Just and true are Thy ways. Thou King of saints," signifies, 
that all things which proceed from Him aro just and true, because He is 
divine good and divine truth in heaven and in tho Church ; " Who shall 
Qot fear theo, O Lord, and glority thy name," signifies, that He alone is 
;o be loved and worshipped; " For Thou only art holy," signifies that 
He is the Word, tho truth and tho illumination. " For all nations shall 
jOme and worship before theo," signifies, that all who aro in the good of 
love anfl charity, will acknowledge tho Lord to be the only God. " For 
thy judgments aro made manifest," signifies, that tho truths of tlio 
Word plainly testify it. " And a voice came out of the throne, saying, 
Praise our God, all ye His servants, and ye that fear Him," Rev. xix. 5., 
signifies, influx from the Lord into heaven and consequent unanimity 
of the angels, that all who are in the truths of faith and goods of lovo 
Sthould worship tlio Loud as the only God of heaven. " I$oth small and 
groat," signifies, those who in a greater or lesser degree worship tlio 
i.ORD from the truths of faith and goods of lovo, " And I heard as it 
were th(< voice of a great multitude, and as tae voice of many waters, 
and as the voico of many thunders, saying, Allolu ia! for the Lord God 
<;aiWir')Tii!NT roi^ncth," ver. 0, signifies, the joy of tho angels of tho 



appenma to the \RT17,:m ouidip,. 



25 



itli upon the 
)ud voice Big- 
lioir Saviour, 
I the Lamu," 
ition of all is 
By Him that 
ID alone; by 
ich Ho came 
one Being ia 
A described as 
cl round about 
1 down before 
blessing and 
sr, and might, 
By this great 
ell before tho 
umiliation of 
, " Blessing, 
vine spiritual 
' signifies tho 
for ever and 
D to oternitv . 
igdoms of the 
Jhrist, and Ho 
)ration by tho 
iORD's as thoy 
ijection also to 
lUs Humanity 
jhurch to etor- 
God on th "ir 
L6, signifies an 
iBD is the God 
We give thoo 
Qd who art to 
r the angels of 
• from Himself, 
i and infinite; 
gned," ver. 17, 
y acknowledge 
•Bcs, the servant 
)s, a confession 
indments of the 
y OftheLOKO'8 

rk», LoHD God 
ven, and in tho 
> love by Divine 
lints," signifies, 
, because He is 
i; " Who shall 
that Ho alone is 
f," signifies that 
all nations shall 
e in the good of 
ily God. " For 
truths of tho 
throne, saying, 
n," Kev. xix. 5-, 
luent unanimity 
lid goods of lovo 
' Both small and 
reo worship the 
nd I heard as it 
)f many wators, 
ir the Loud God 
10 jingoU of tho 



lowest heaven, orrne angels of the middle henvrn, nurt f.f tho anw's of 
tiio liijirlH'^-t hciivt'ii; because ihc Loiu) alone reigns in tlic ( hurrh ivhitb 
i.^ LOW about fo com:', ,si;.'-.rilii'(l by tlu; J'.ridc tlic I>\Mii'f* wife*, or tha 
new Jerusalem iDciilioni'^l in ver. 7, 8, ;in,i cliap. xxi. 2. 
In ortlir to biiui.-li all doult as to who is meant by the term "(Jdc! " 




things in tho heaven and earth were made by Him, aiui aie governed by 
His Divine Providence and done according to it. " I will give unto hiii 
that is athirst of the fountain of the water of lifcfre<'ly," signifies, tha^ -o 
those who desire truths from any spiritual use, th(! LdtiP will give from 
Himself through the Word, " Ho thatovercometii fhall inherit all things; 
and 1 WILL BK HIS God, and he shall bo my son," signilios, that they Who 
overcome "vil in themselves, that is, the devil, or the love of self and the 
world, and do not yield or sink in temptations, v(i;i go (o heaven, and 
there live in the Lord am', the Lord in them. This is the testimony of 
Jksds. Let it be supplemented by the testimoi\y of Hit- angel: "Fear 
not; for behold 1 bring you good tidings of great Joy, which t^hall be to 
all people. For unto you U born this day in the city of David, a Saviour, 
whic'i isCiiKisT TUK Lord," Luke ii. 10,11. That our Blessed .Lord 
received divine honours andwort'hip when on earth may be seen. Matt, ix, 
18, xiv. 33, XV. '28, xxviii. 9, Mark i, 40, v. 22, vii. 2ij, x. 17. Luko xvii, 15. 
16. 

It is known from tho science of correspondences that such meaninga 
are actually involved in the above mentioned passa,i,'es of Scripture, yea, 
and much more, for each expression being from a Divi'.ie origin embodies 
williin itself infinitely more than man or angel can ever comprehend. 
But we have seen enough to convince us that the Loud is in very deed 
the supreme (JoD of heaven and earth, in M'hom is the Divine Trinity of 
FutluT, Son and Holy Spirit " Now the LoivD is that .Spirit, rnd where 
the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty," 2 Cor. iii. 17. Go then, my 
friend, to this Saviour God, who once for your sake hecanio "a Man of 
sorrows and acciualnted with grief," serve Him by olu'yinj^IUs command- 
ments, draw near to Him at all times with humility, love, and faith 
unfeigned, for Ho will have mercy, and you will " iiear a word behind 
you, saying. This is tho way, walk ye in it," Isa. xxx. 21. '^\mfide ia 
Him during every trial and under every difficulty, und you will indeed 
find that the eternal (ioo is thy refuge, and that uv.derneath thee is tha 
•'veriasting arms. In every" weak and doubtful state Ho will impart 
strength by laying " His right ha::'^ upon ^ ou, saying, Fear not, I am the 
First and the Last," Kov. i. 17. Let ...'i act thus and (he time will be 
present concerning which it is written: "And the Lord shall be King 
over all the earth ; in that day there shall oo one Lord and Uif. name 
One," Zee. xiv. 9. 

Such is the Doctrine of the Lord as taught in the Word, and such waa 
tho doctrine held by the apostles and the primitive Christian Church (aa 
may be seen by consulting the writings oi' the early Fathers), until the 
time of the council, convened at Nice, in Bithynia, by command of thu 
Emperor Constantino, A.D. 825. This was called for the purpose of 
repressing the Arian heresy, and a creed, the first that over recognized 
tlu> existence of triree distinct Persons in tho Trinity, was drawn up by 
llosius of Cordubif, at the instance of this council, and hence was called 
tho Nicene Creed. What is called the Athanasian Cn.'eil came out about 
a century later, ?>ut it is now known that Athanasius never composed it. 
The assertions tind claims of this last mentioned document are really 
astounding, aad none can be ignorant of the powerful t^flbrts put forth In 
Enciland by all clas,ses of the people, among them the very highest 
di!j;nitaries of the Kngli.sh Church, to exclude it from th ' liturgy. 

I'rom the doctrine of Three Persons in the Godhead as taught by these 
cr.'i'd^, flow many otliir doctrines equally inimical to truth, as for 
instance, that God the Father imputes the merit and righteousness of His 
Sou to tho.se who believe that he died for them, and lliat Christ having 
obeyed tho law in our ro> <n and stead, we are thereby exempted from all 



i\ 



26 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



Il 



\] 



lb 

i 1- 



oblisatlon to obey it except as un outward rule of life, thus nullifying; and 
maluug of none effect the spirituality of those commandments of which 
It is said, that ♦' if a man do, ho shall live in them," Levit. xviii. 5. 

It is certainly true that man has, and can have, no goodness or rij,'lifoou3« 
ness but what emanates from tho Louo alone, from which grouuii Ilo is 
called " Jkhovah ouu KiOHTEOUSNEt^-s," J( r. xxxiii. 16. It is also true 
that the Lord's method of imparting this righteousness involves continual 
warfare against evils as sins, on the part of man, for goodness can only 
enter as evils are expellud, but this is a very different tiling fiom tlio 
impatation of the Loud's merit and righteousness, which is divine, 
fainDite, and eternal, for it is no more possible to ascribe, impute, or adjoin, 
what iz divine, infinite and etern, 1 to any human being, than if.is to dotlio 
blm with the attributes of Omnipotence, and empower him to create a 
Bniverse. It would be l?.kc plunging him into a furnace heated sovenfold, 
which would consume him in a moment. The righteous Loud can nover 
recognize any righteousne-^s *n a man which has not be u implanted U: 
his life. Christ says, tha' Ho "shall reward every man according to his 
works," Matt; xvi. 27, Rev. ii. '23, xx. 12, 13, xxii. 12. It is never said 
according to his belief, but according to his works, " And it shall b<i our 
righteousness if wo observe to do all these commandments before J khov au 
onr God, as lie hath commanded us," Deut. vi. 25. "1 commaud thee 
this day to love Jkuovaii thy God, and to keep His conimandmenfs and 
His statutes and His judgments, that thou mr.yest live," Ueut. xxx. 16. 
" Yo shall command your children to observe to do all the words of this 
law. For it is not a vain thing for you, because it is your life," chap. 
xxzii. 46, 47. Concerning the violation of His law it is written, " O tliak 
they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their 
latter end," ver. 29. And in Isaiah; "O that thou hadst hearkened to 
toy commandments, then had thy peace been as ariver, andthyright^ouH- 
nessastho waves of the sea," chap, xlviii. i8, "I will recompense thorn 
according to their deeds, and accordin'^ to the works of their own hand," 
Jer. XXV. 14. "Thine eyes are open upon all the ways of the children of 
men, to give to every one according to his ways, and according to tho 
fruit of his doings," xxxii. 19, " lie hath shewed thee, O man. what is 
good; and what doth Jkhovah re<iuire of thee but to do justly, to love 
mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God," Micah vi. 8, " According to 
our ways and according to our doings, so hath he dealt with us," Zocli. 1, 
6, " Every one who heareth those sayings of mine and doeth them, I will 
liken him unto a wise man who built his liouso upon r, rock — and every 
one who heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not, shall bo 
likened unto a foolish man who built his house upon the sand," Matt. vii. 
24, 26, "And why call vie me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I 
eay," Luke vi. 46, "They that have done good shall come forth to the 
reanrrcction of life," John v. 29, " If ye know these things, happy are ye 
if ye do them," John xiii. 17, " Herein is ray Father glorified, tiiat ye 
bear much l^uit," John xv. 8, " If ye keep my commandments ye shall 
abide in my love," t. 10, " Yo are my friends if yo do whatsoever I 
command you," v. 14. 'He that hath my commnndment', and koepeth 
them, ho it is that loveth mo," xiv. 21, " Circumcision is nothing and un- 
oircumsion is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of Goo," 
1 Cor. vii. 19, " For thia is the love of God that we keep His command- 
ments, and His commandmen* are not grievous," 1 John v. 3, " Vo see 
then how by works a man is justified and not by faith only," James ii. 
24. When it is said "that a man is justified by faith, wit'-out thedcedHof 
the law," Rom. iii. 28, we are to understand this passage as having sole 
reference to the law of outward circumcisioa and external washings an I 
pudfyingB, which being merely representative rites, were abolished by tho 
COD ing of Christ, see v. 30, Acts xvi. 1-24. In what was written to tlie 
aeven churches in Asia (by whom is represented the Church of Christ ac 
to every possible state), the Searcher of hearts states in oich and cvory 
ease, " I know thy works," and rewards are promised to those who onT- 
oome evils in ti • jnselves, or, what is the same, obey the comniaiidrncuts. 
These rewards are described in a figurative inannnr by coni'spiiJc. .ii". 
which In the internal eenso are significalive oi' every vavety o.' ht'*vcrilf 
Joy, and supreme felicity. 



APPENDIX TO THE AUTIZANb' GUIDK. 



'^Y 



nulHfyltiR and 
cuts of which 
;viii. 5. 

!sorri>,'htoou3- 
grouni'l 111! is 
It is also true 
ilvosco\itiiiual 
liieaa can only 
iiiiig fioMi tho 
lich is divine, 
pute, or udjoiii, 
,11 itis to ciotlio 
im to croito a 
ated 8<!venfold, 
,OBD can novor 
n implanted ir. 
ccoruins; to hia 
Lt is never said 
I it shall bo our 
(OforeJicnoVAU 
command thee 
nandmeiits and 
Ueut. XXX. 16. 
iG wordi of this 
our life," chap, 
ritton, " O that 
Id consider their 
1st hearkened to 
idthyright(H>un- 
'compenso them 
heir own hand," 
f tl»o childreu of 
iccording to tho 
, Oman, what is 
lo justly, to love 
, " According to 
rith us," Zech. 1, 
oeth thorn, 1 will 
rock— and every 
em not, shall bo 
sand," Matt. vii. 
le things which I 
lome forth to the 
ngs, happy are ye 
glorified, that yo 
mdaionts yo shall 
do whatsoever I 
ent", and kCi^Dcth 

9 nothing and un- 
idraents of God, 
ep His command- 
jhn V. 3, " Vo see 
I only," James n. 
it».out the deeds or 
igp as having sole 
rnal washings an I 
re abolished by tho 
wa» written to tlio 
hurch of Christ ac 
in o^ch and every 
to tho.^e wlK) over- 

10 comnui'Hlmcnts. 
y cortesp'i.iJe. >V'^< 
ravety o.' lio*\enly 



tJrory man ib bom Into tho world with ovil propenaltio.i and depraved 
inclinations, derived from a lonp line of auoentors. These proponsitie.s ane( 
inclinatio.ts, are not imputed to man as .lins, becau-io thty have ber»n 
Inherited through horodit ,ry transmission, and tlm^ ho cannot prt^vfut 
them. Butthose depraved uflfei^tiouj lire the avenues throu-iii iviii''!i infer- 
nal agencies 11 )\v in as a tlood and tempt m la bv the inieniination of evil 
desires and wicked thoughts, and it i^jurl hero vvh'-re m»n's responsibility 
begins. If he, by virtue of tho froo will given inm h/ God, compels him- 
self [and in thJB compulsion th'>re exists Ihe hij;ho.-"t freed:>ml, to resist 
and abhor these ovil desires and thoiiglits, and turns trom thorn as 
accursed and abominable, und does that which is just and ri^ht, heoboya 
tho commandments, and saves his soul. If, on tho other hand, he doc3 
not restrain himself, but yields to temptation, if in his heart ho thinks 
that evil is permissible, even though ho does not actually carry it out to 
tho extreme of actual perpetration, for want of oppnrtunitv, or through 
fear, or otlier cau.sos, in this case ho makes it his own by loving it, and 
doing it whenever ho can, and thus disobeyi the commandments whicli 
Bay tliat evils ara not to b > done. *• Fie wh" - is willing to be saved, must 
confess his si is and do the work <>/ repentnnne. To confiss nhis is to know 
evils, to see them in himself, to acknowlodgn tlicni, to raalto himself 
guilty, to coTideran himself on account of them; when this is done before 
GoiJ, it constitutes tho confession of sins. To do (he worhqfreitentance m 
todesistfrom sins, when he has thus confessed them, and from an humblo 
heart to make supplication concernin;r reini^.sion, and it is further to lead 
anew life according to the precepts (j'Maitii." 

As to what has been alleged in l'w above statements concerning 
tho nature of every man born into the world, even our ador- 
able Redeemer was no exception. Ho, ''the T.amb of God which taketli 
away tho sin of tiio world," did no Fin, neither was guile found in His 
mouth." But for tho sake of man's salvation, ho assumed the Humanity, 
at the very lowest and darkest hour of it^ I'xistcnce, with all its iufiritii- 
ties, inclinations to evil, ami liability to lomptation and suffering, d-rived 
from a long line of ancestry, through Mary. In no other way ould tho 
Saviour bo said to bear tho sins of mankind, as it is written, " Sun'ly Ho 
Jiath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows ; yet we did esteem him 
stricken, smUton of Gou, and afllicted. Rut he wan wounded for our 
transgressions, he was bruised fur our ini'iultios; the chastisement of 
Our peace was upon him; and with his striiies wo are liealed, — and tho 
Loud hath laid on him theiniiiuity of us all," Isa. liii.5, 7. Those here- 
ditary evils in tlie form ot the love ofsclf and tho world, were thechannela 
througli which the powers of darkness assaulted Him in temptations a 
thousand times more grievous than any man could pos^i >ly sustain, and 
these evils, together with the whole infernal crew, I'e overcame ami 
vanquished by means of His own proper power, through the indwelling 
Divinity. From this ground He said to His disciples :' The prince of 
this world cometh, and hath nothing in me," Bo of good cheer, 1 have 
overcome the world," " I beheld Satan, as lightning, fall from heaven," 
"To him that ovcrcometh will I grant to sit with mo on my throne, even 
as I also overcame," Rev. iii. 21. 

In no other way could he become a Saviour than by assuming tho 
Humanity, and thus coming nearer the same plane as that of tho spiri- 
tual enemies of mankind, tor In hh absolute Divinity, Gon is a consum- 
ing fire, unappro-ichabie by any iugol, much "ess by an infernal spirit. 
By temptations, suTerngs and coitinual victories over evii. Ho overcame 
nrincipa'.'t'cs and powers, triumphing over them on His cross, glorilied 
ilis Humanity and made it Divine, and is now exalted a I'rince and a 
S.aviour to give ropontanco and remission of sins. -In His Divino oxampl*, 
every child of (Jon may ."Co that his duty is plain to take up his cross and 
f.illow his Blessed I.oud in the regenerr.fion. 

It may now be visible to all who are willing to sen. that tho scripture 
Centains a spiritual as w<>U a-* a natural s«»me. and thnt it is p"rv;ided by ft 
union of good aiui Inifh, or Invo and \vi"-din!, the in-t:i-',i'.eH in wlucJi tlii.i 
is '.he case being :io laimerans f 'uit !ti onl"r to r.dduee iMom nil, \i \v«uld 
be necessary to transcriin' the entire >V()rd. It nriy bo ficiher soon in 
what manner the science of corrcspondcncBS sorve.s to nufold the .■•i>iritual 



28 



APPENDIX TO THE ART1ZAN8 GUIDE. 



1 



i 

1 



flense of the Word, but groat dUTjculty has boon felt from want of apaoeto 
illustrate oacli tojjic by j)inall<'l i)assasos from tlie SiicrT-d writin>rs. a^^il I 
am mt)st rt'luctiiutly comi»i'lloil to uiiut tlic uotico of thoii^umi- > < (.'mt 
matliT.^ wliicli wuulil be most highly instructive, for th.-ro >.a iio.liinjr 
mentioned in t e Scri])tuies, not oven tlie ismallest jot or tittle, b it . ,.m 
is pregniiat witli divine wisdom, and this by reason of the hoU lun u.iii, 
that iu the inmost of the Wohd, tlie IjOKD alone is. Even in tho hisiuijl 
cals of the Word, sucli as the journeys of the Israeli "es. we have a jjurfcct 
counterpart if the journey of every Christian from the Egypt of a natural 
etate, to his triumphant entry into t)io heavenly Canaan, together with 
the whole arcana ot liis regeneration, all written by the linger of GrOD.and 
riescribed by mere corresjjondences. The flrst chai)ters of Genesis, appar- 
ently descriptive of the creation of the natural universe.- Adam and Eve, 
tho garden of Eden, the tree of life, and of the knowledge of good and evil, 
the serpent, ( ain and AJ>e], tho flood, Noali, and the other patriarclis, tho 
ark, tho tower of Dabol, etc., down to tlio end of the eleventh chapter of 
Genesi-', will bo found, when interpreted by tlie science in question, to con- 
tain tho nu)St wonderful einbodinient of divine truth ever unfolded to tho 
world. Tula science will enable us to harmonize every apparent discre- 
pancy in the letter o*" tho Word, and understand ail passages whicli are 
otherwise inexplicable, and is not such a study deserving of the attention 
of every one, since in thc.^e latter days, the Loud ijoi> tlic Saviour has 
been most graciously pleased to disclose the knowledge of it, so that what 
has hitherto lain most dt eply concealed is now made manifest in tho 
clearest light, and the transcendant importance of the disclosure is such 
that this is iu very truth what is denoted by " the Son of Man coming i,i 
tho clouds of heaven," whicli wis to take place at the consummatiun of 
tho age, or church, erroneously translated, "end of tho world." These 
revelations and disclosures have been made through a man whom the 
Lord raised up, prepared, instructed, and tilled with ills spirit, so that he 
might reduce them to writing, and tliat thus they might be printed and 
preserved for the use of His cliurcn through succeeding generations. That 
man was Emanuel Swodunborg, and tliese unfoldings of the spiritual 
sense of the Word are to be tound in his theological writings, to which 1 
would refer all who take deligiit in the study of llie scriptures, for no lover 
of truth can fiul to be both delighted and astonished, at the i)rofundity and 
variety of the immense .nass of knowledge nreseuted in relation to the 
epiritual sense of the Word, heaven and hell, and the life of man after 
death. The subjects ,so iin,.erfeclly treated in this brief sketch, and many 
thousands besides, will bo found in those writings to be treated with the 
full measure of that elaborate justice which they deserve. Every sentence 
seems to conlirm and veiity their author's claim that ho was called and 
prepared for this holy oflice by the Loud Himself, for most assuredly no- 
thing short of supernatural illumination could enaide any one to make 
Buch statements, and impart such knowledges as are contained in thene 
books. The exalted pleasure derived from tho study of these writings is 
the sole reason for recommending them to the consideration of others, and 
I take mucli pleasure in appending the namey of the dilferent books, with a 
few collateral works, together with the addresses of responsible parties from 
whom they may bo procured. See list on last page. The theological 
writings would lill about thirty octavo volumes of oOO pages each, and his 
philosophical works, writ-n anterior to his illumination, wouldiill as much 
more, making ab^ut sixty volumes in all. It is deemed proper to state 
that the writer has no pecuniary interest in the sale of these books, tho 
r>artie.s whose addre^se.s are given on the last page having at this time, 
March 1873, no intimation whatever, that any such notice as this is intend- 
ed; furtliermore, what lias been adduced in this appendix has been done 
from a love of the truth, and from no desire for emolument of any kind. 
The illu.-trious Svvedeiiborg, who died March, 29, 1772, was a Swedish 
nobleman, held in high respect by tho royal lainily of Sweden, and was 
C'Ttainly one of the most extraordinary aiid learned men who (>ver lived. 
Tho celebrated c.iemist Ui-rzilius, says" of Swedenborg's " Animal king- 
dom:" " 1 liavo been surprised to liiid how the mind of Swedenborg has 
preceded tho prest'iit state of knowledg >, writing Mis work at the tiiuc ho 
did." The Ki'v. John Clowoj of il an Chester, Eualaud, write* a» follows, 



B. 



.APPENDIX TO THIJ ARTIZaN'S GDIDE. 



29 



int of apjweto 
'ritiiiv'-". .T^.i I 
innl- 1 V r.t'.'T 
■re xa no'lr.nf; 
ttle, bn .:it 
Holciiui II I h, 
in tho lii.-i'iii- 
have a ])Lrfi'ct 
pt of a natural 
togother witli 
er of GrOD, and 
jenesis, appar- 
Ulam and Eve, 
good and ovU, 
patriarchs, the 
nith chapter of 
iiestion, to con- 
anfolded to tho 
iparent discre- 
agos which are 
•f the attentiou 
he Saviour has 
It, 80 that what 
iianifost in tho 
iclosure is such 
Man coming in 
»nsummatiiin of 
world." These 
man whom the 
ipirit.so that ho 

be printed and 
nerations. That 
of tho spiritual 
lugs, to which 1 
ires, for no lover 
) ]>rofundity and 

relation to the 
ife of man after 
cetch, and many 
treated with the 

Every sentence 
! was called and 
ost assuredly no- 
my one to make 
ntained in therie 
these writings is 
an of others, and 
ent books, with a 
isible parties from 

The theological 
ges each, and his 
kvouldlillasmuch 
d proper to state 
• thf-se books, tho 
ing at this time, 
i as this is intend- 
lix has been done 
lent of any kind. 
■'2, was a Swedisli 
Sweden, and was 
■n whoever lived, 
•s " Animal king- 
f Swedenborghas 
orkattheti.neliQ 
, writes m follows, 



" Tlio author of this meraolr cannot conclude nls narrative without offer* 
in-r up to tho Fatlior ot in Tcies his mostdcyout iindgraieful acknowledge, 
lii, .Its, .'or'.lu' ('Xtraonliu.iry privil(?;(> and inestimable blo^Mn?,' vouchsuied 
liiiuin li:iviiigb"('n adinittod to tho kuowledgo and acknowlodgpiniul o< 
the inith anii .mp.irtanco ot the doctrines unfolded bv SwedLuborg f oiq 
llie Word of (iou as the genuine doctrines of Christianity." This gentio- 
luaii translated Swedenborg's largest work, the " Arcana C'oelestia," in 
ten octavo volumes, from the Latin Into English. I'rofessor Gorres ol 
Germany, written as follows, " Throughout the entire career of his learned 
researches and activity, wo everywhen; discover tho pious and roli.^'ious 
man, who in all his sayings and doings, was intent upon good," Dr 
(iabriel A. Beyer, professor of Greek literature in (iottenburg, in a long 
declaration respecting the doctrines tau^-ht by Swerlenborg, deliver''d in 
obedience to the royal command, Jun 2nd., 1772. concludes thus, " / luioe 
found in them nolhnirj hut wh'it clnseli/ colnriiles with ih^i words of the 
L'>ui) Himself, and that they shine with a liyht trtily divine. " Gen. Chrls- 
ll.m Tuxen, a persnnal aciiuaintiinco of Swedenbofg's, and Commissioner 
of War under the King of Denmark, stati'-; in a lettnr, " For my part I 
thank our Loim the Gou of heaven, that I have be.in acquainted with 
tills gi'eat man and his writing-! ; 1 esteem this as tho greatest blessing 1 
everexperiiMKjed in this life." I'lio itev. Dr. Hartley, late Hector of Win- 
wick, Northamptonsjilre, England, the translato of Swcdenbor;;'s " Ilea- 
ven and Hell," writes thus, " I have found hi;n to b- tho good divine, the 
goi)d man, the deej) philosopher, tho universal scholar, t!io p <lite gentle- 
man ; and I further believe that he luid a high deg-eeuf the SjuritofOou, 
and wa-i commissioned by lljni as an extraordinary me.ssenge • to the 
world." L"t tlu'cn'juir.T after further evidence procure the " l3 )cument8 
conceiiiin f .Swedenborg," coinpilt-d by Dr. Tafol and I'rofessor Hash, and 
he will (indavidu'ne filled with evidence similar to this. I he " Siatenient 
of Keasons lor embracing the Dootrines and Disclosures of Ennmnol 
Swedenb <rg." by I'rof. linsh, will also |)n>ve of great interest. The " Tiuo 
Christian lteU'j;ion"Is agood work for beginners, being tlie last writton bv 
Bweuenb ng. In it he says, "Tho particulars ot faith on man's part are, 1. 
Tnat (joi) is one. in whom there is a Divine Trinity, and tiiat lie is the Loud 
(iou and Saviour JES08 Ciiiiisr. 2. Tiat saving faith is to believe on 
llini. ?.. That evil actions ou','ht not to be done because they are of the 
devil, and from the devil. 4. That good actions ought to be done, bfcauso 
they a.-e of (ion, and fiom God. 5. And that a man siiall do them as of 
lliihseir, n'verlheless under this belief, that they are from the Lord, ope- 
ratin,'wilti him and l)y him. Tiie first two particulars have relation to 
fp'th ; llie next two to Charity ; and the last respects the conjunction of 
ciiariry .and r.iith, and thereby of tho Lokd ard man. In his " Doctrine 
of Life" in' states, " All religion has relatitm to life, and tho life of religiou 
is to do L'ood." Elsewhere lie states, ' I'here arc live classes of those who 
road my writings. The first reject them entirely, because they are in 
ano lier persuasion, or because they are in no faith. The second receivo 
tiicm as s ientitics, orasobjects of niero curiosity. The third receive them 
intellectually, and are In some measure pleased with them, but whenever 
they require an application to regulate their lives, they remain where they 
wer' before, fhe fourth receive them in a persuasive manner, and are 
then ty led, in a crtain degree to amend their lives and perform uses. 
The fifth receive them with delight, and confirm them in their lives." 
Dear reader, to which class will you belong ? The following " liules of 
Life," were found among the writings of tiii-. great and good man. 1. 
Often to read and raedita>o o!i tho VVoiid nf God. 2. I'o submiteverythiiit^ 
to the will of the Divine Providence. 3. fo (4)'ervo in everything a ^^o 
pricty of behaviour, and to keep the conscience clear. 4. fo obey th.-t 
which Is ordained, to be faithful in the discharge of the duties of our 
employment, and to do everything in our power to render ourselves as 
universally useful as possible. His motto, "Tiiv. Lord will pkoviuk." 

Regarding tho happiness ot lieaven, we quote the foUowmg from the 
writing: of thisi.luniined author. 

" It is said fn heaven, that innocence dwells in wisdom, and that the 
ingols have wisdom in proportion as they have innocence. That this Is 
ihe case they oouUrm from these considerations : That they who are in % 



30 



APPJENDIX TO THK AttTlZANS QUIDB. 



! 



rat* of Innocence attribute nothing of ^ood to themselvosTtut consider 
tt'emse've^ odIt as recolvers and ascril)e all to tljc Loud ; that tlic} aro 
(.•o^ir^.u,■^ to be Ifld l>v liini, und not by tlioin:^p!vo« ; thiit th<y i'jvc I'vciy 
tliluj^ wiiiCii itt goiuf, and an^ dt'liglitod with every tliinpt whicli i^triio, 
because they know and perceive that to love what isjjtood, thus to will luul 
do it ia to lore the Louu, and to love what is trin.- in to love tlioir nt'ii^li- 
b6r ; that they live contented with what Ihoy liave, whether it be Uttle or 
much, bocau-c thev know that they receive as much as id prolitablc for 
theu, littio if little bo prolltr.'ule, and much if much, and that they them- 
•elves do not know what is prolitable lor them, because this is known only 
totheLoRU, who hath a view to what i^s eternal in all the operatious of His 
providence." " All who aro in the ftood of innocence are aflecti'd by 
mnocence, and bo far as any one is in tliatf^ood, ro fur ho in affected. The 
inmost principles of heaven arc two, viz., innocence and peace. They aro 
termed iiircobt principlca, because they proceed immediat«'ly from the 
Lord Innocence is that principle from which is derived every good of 
hcaveu, wid peace is that principle from which is durived all the deli<;ht of 
Loaven. Every rood id altondea wilh delijfht ; and both good and dolii,'ht 
have relation to love ; for whatever is loved is calU'd good, and is per- 
ceived a.s delightful ; hence it follows, that those two inmost princii)l(y, 
'nnocenoe huu peace, proceed from the divine love of tie Loud, and uil'<>ct 
tbe angel s) from an inmost ground. " " The divine sphere of pence in 
heafen flows Irom the Loud, and exists in conseqaeuc** ofilis conjuuc- 
liou vitu tlic BUgels of heaven, and in parficular in consequence of iho 
coajunci-oa of good and truth in every '.in^el. These aro the origins of 
beacp, whence it mskj be evident that peace in heaven is the Divine spliora 
aumoatly a^oating with b'easedness every principle of good there, thus 
ftci-.ng ft«» the source of of ah the joy of heaveii ; and that in its essence it is 
thejjy of the Lokd's divine lore, resulting from ili-t conjunction with 
heaven and with every one there. Thi.-t joy percoived by the Loud in tlio 
a'lgei-, and by the angela from the Loud is iwace. Hence, by derivation, 
M»o ".ug^'ls have every blessedness, delight and happiness, or that whu;h is 
te.'m^'d bearealy joy. ' " Every one may know, th:*t when man leaves llio 
exW^rnal or natural man he comes into the internal or spiritual ; whonco 
ii :ii.a7 be known that heavenly delight is int^^rnal or spiritual, but not 
external or uaturAl ; and aiuco it ia internal and spiritual, that it is purer 
and a»«>rG.ex'iuii>ite, and that it affects the interiors of man, which are the 
f^'C'.iiJcs oi ois .«!Oul or spirit," " The deii^hts uf uea-en are infUuble. and 
lit'ewiM innumerable. But of those innumerable delights not one of thorn 
• ill bo known or credited by him who is in tlio mere delight of the body or 
of*liOtlesh ; since his interiors look away from heaven and towards <ho 
world, tURt is, backwards. Wherefore a person of this doflcriptiou would 
wonder greatly, if he were only told that there are delights eiistin<i wii.'a 
the deliglita of honor and gain aro removed ; and still more if he w(!ro 
♦.old, that the delights ol heaven Fucceeding in their place are innumera- 
ble, and are such that the delights of the body and the flesh, which are 
'•-Idetiy the desires of honor and gain, cannot'be compared with tnem. 
Hence, tto reason is evident, why it is not known what heavemy joy is." 
'• The angelic life consists in use, and in doing good works from charity, 
yor nothing in more delightful to the angels tnan to instruct and teach 
(»p'r*t8 ^omiBg from the world, to serve maakind by inspiring them with 
vhat it jood, and by restraining the evil spirits attendant on them from 
passing their proper bounds, to raise up the dead to eternal life, and after- 
«;urds, if their souis be of such a quality as to render itpossible, to intro- 
ftuc: ih«m Into heayen. In the peiformanco of these omces they perceive 
:ut iule.scribable degree ojf deilgnt. Thus they become images of the 
&<oiU) ; for they love their neiglibour more than themselves, and where 
this lesi'ug exists, tiiere is heaven. Angelic happiness, then, is in use, 
.cum uie, and according to use, or, in other words, il is perceived during 
the pnr'oriTiHUce of the good oliices of love and ciiarity." " Heavenly JDy 
IrJelf, su-'jh Ji.s it is in il,s e^soncu, cannot be dfijcribed, because it has its 
Keatiu thei.'.most qtoands of the life ofiiiu an,.;t'ls, and thonco in every 
part'cnlar of tlioir thoaglits and afli-ciions, and from the-o again in every 
particular of their speech and actions. It is as if the interiors were fully 
u,iMnU«td to the rcoupiiuu of deUj;lit and bluosedneiis, which is diffused 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



31 



"but consldor 
that llii'v aro 
I-/ I'jvi' I'vcry 
vhich i" truo, 
us to will aiui 

thoir ucit^li- 
!■ it be littlt' ur 

prolitabli' for 
at they tliem- 
is knowu only 
irations of ills 
re affecti'd by 
affected. Tlio 
ice. They aro 
t»'ly from the 
every pood of 

1 the deliRlit of 
od aud delight 
id, and is per- 
lost principltM, 
)i;d, and alV<>ct 
re of peace in 
if His coujaiic- 
iequence ol'the 

the origins of 
3 Divine sphere 
»od there, thiia 
its essence it is 
njuuctiou with 
le LoHD in tho 
, by derivation, 
)r that wrhich is 

man Igaves t he 
ritual ; whciico 
iritual, but not 
, that it is i)urer 
I, which are tlie 
re inellable. aud 
not one ol theaa 
itof the body or 
ind towards Uio 
(scriptiou would 
.sexistinv; wiieu 
more if he W(!ro 
} are inuutntia- 
tlesh, which are 
ri^-d with tnem. 
leavemy joy is." 
kH from cliarity. 
itruct and teach 
jiring them with 
it on liiom from 
al life, and after- 
)03Sible, to intro- 
ces tliey percoivo 
no images of the 
slves, and where 
, then, is in use, 
perceived diiriu!? 
" Heavenly joy 
bi.;cauae it lias its 
d th.nico in every 
^e ap;aiu in every 
teriora were fully 
which ie diffused 






Info ail tho libres, and thus through the whole angol ; whoncfl ItR poroep. 
tion nnd sensation aru such as to admit of no dcficripti(m ; for what coni- 
<,,^!. OS from the inmost parts. tUtwA into all derived from them, and 
])roi)agateH itself with contiimed augmentation towards the exteriors. 
<io )d spirits who are not as yet in that delipht, because not as yet raised 
up into heaven, when they perceive it emanating from an ungel by t j 
sjihero of his love, are filled with such delight thaf they fall as it were into 
a swoon, through tho sweetness of the sensation." " That I might know 
what is tho nature of the delights of heavenly joys, it bath been granted 
nie by the Loud to perceive them; wherefcre, since 1 have had living 
experience, 1 can know, but not at all describe them ; yet somethmg shall 
bo said to give some idea of them. It was perceived thur tho joy aud 
delight came as from the heart, diffusing themsel > «.-< with tho utmost soft- 
nes through all the inmost fibres with such a aoim' of enjoyment, that the 
fibre is as it'%vere nothing but jov and delight ; and in like manner every 
jxTCoption and sensation thence derived, receivin>c its life from happiness. 
The joy of bodily pleasures, compared with these joys, is as a gross and 
pungent clot compared with a pure aud most gentle aura. It was observed 
that when I wrs desirous to transfer all my delight to another, a mor« 
interior and ftiUor delight flowed in its place, and it was perceived that 
this was from the Loud." 

Kegardiiig the puuishraents of the wicked we extract the following from 
" I leaven and Hell." . 

" Evil spirits are severely punished in tho world of spirits, that by pun- 
ishmentstliey maybe deterred from doing evil. This appears as if it were 
from tho Lord, when yet notliing of punishment comes from the Lord 
but from evil itself. For evil is so conjoined with its own punishment that 
thtti cannot be separated. The internal crew desire and love nothine 
more than to do evil, especially to iiifiict punishment and tv^rraent; ana 
they likewise do evil, and intlict punishment on every one who is not pro- 
tected by the Loud ; wherefore, when evil is done by any from an (!vil 
heart, since this rejects irom itself all protection from the Lord, infernal 
spirits rush in upon liim who does it and punish him"— What inlisrnal fire 
ip— which is mentioned in the Word as the j)ortion of those who are ia 
he'll, hath as yet been known scarcely to any one, by reason that mankind 
have thought materiallj^ respecting the things mentioned in the Word, 
nit being acqntiated with its spiritual .'^onse, wherefore by this fire sorao 
have unaerstood material fire, some torment in general, some the pangs of 
conscience, and some liave supposed that it is mentioned merely to im- 
press the wielded with tenor." " Tho spiritual heat appertaining to man. 
IS the heat of bis life, because in its essence it is love. This heat is what 
is meant in the Word by fire, love to the Loud aud neighbourly love being 
meant by heavenly tire, and self love and the love of tlie world being 
meant by infernal fire ; and since sucli lust possesses all who aro in the 
hells, thereto -0, iii^ewise when the hells are opened, there is seen a sort 
of fiery appearance, with smoke issuing from it, such as is usually seen 
fiom buildings on fire. Hut when these arc closed, this fiery appearance 
is not seen, but in its place an appearance like a dark mass of condensed 
smoke. It is Iiowever to be noted, that they who arc in the hells are not 
immersed In firo, but that the fire is an appe.irance, for love corresponds 
to tiro and all things which appear in the spiritual world appear accord- 
ing to corrfespondences." " As by infernal fire is meant every lust to do 
evil flowing from tho love of se!f, by it is also meant torment such as has 
place in the hells. For the lust derived from that love is the lu#t of hurt- 
ing others who do not honor, venerate aud pay court to the subject of it; 
aud when such lust prevails in every one, in a society which is restrained 
by no external bonds such as the fear of the law, and of the loss of repu- 
tf.tlon, of hi>n r, of gain, or of life, every one under the impulse of bis 
o.vn evil, iu:l.Gs upou another, and t<o far art he prevails, enirilaves the rest 
a-i(t reduces tberu under his dominion, and from a principle of deli,<^ht 
ex<TC!S!?3 crat fly towards tl^jse f\Iio do not subniif. Ali the hells are such 
si-c-etios; wtu Ihoic o.ery one there bears hatred in his heart ajcainst 
aii:,thcr, a'ld from hatred bursts ibrth into cruelty, so tar as he prevails." 
" An rebelliou3 disturbances constantly exist there, since every one there 
deslr&i to be greatest, aud burua with hatred again^^t ctbeig UQjuie cqim 



32 



APPEND. X TO TUE AUTIZANS GUIDE. 



now ontragcs. 'niu? one Hcore Is chftnged tbr another ; whorcfor? thoy 
who had hewn ma-l" xlavcH are tnken out to help some new devil t<i siihju- 
finto f)th<'r«; when Ih y who d. not Huhmit, and \Md implicit obcdirncp, 
nro njifnin lormonfci hj viirio;is nif Ihodw, and fo thoy go on continually. 
Such tonnentfl ari the toimentH of lioll, which aro called infernnl (Ire.* 
Hesides the>e general n»(i"ries, in tho Hrnt volume of the Arcana Cn/tstln 
arc described , number of fpecilic inHictlons which follow th«p':rpetrator8 
of various crimes 

Conceininp th me "lum of snlvation; we qtiofe from the Apocnlypst 
Explained, No. *^0.3, "It is known thiit faitli gronndeil in love is the 
essential raedifm )f salvation, and that hence it iH the chief thmg of the 
doctrine of t?-o Jhurch. but inasmuch an it i it importance to know liow 
man may be in illustration, bo as to learn thetnitha which muHtconstituto 
his faith, anc' in nflectlon bo as to do tho poods which must constitute 
his love, anri :h may know whether hi.s faith bo the faith ol'trnlh, and 
Ilia love tlu \o\ jf good, this -.vil? b'> sliewn in it.s order ; which i» this, 1. 
Let a man read the Word every day, one or two chapters, and learn from 
a competent teacher and from preachings, the doctrines of bin religion ; 
and especially, let him learn that Gau L: on., that the Lori> is the Cii>i> of 
heaven and eartii (.John, ii', 85 ; C'mp. xvii. 2, Matt, xi, 27 ; Chap xxviii. 
18 ;) thattlie Word is n ly, tlr.t -hereica heave i and a hell, and that 
ther" is a life alter di> ath. 2. Let him lean' fi ^m the Word, from a com- 
petent teaclier and fr'^ia pivarhinps, what worka ar' Bin:;, acd that they 
are especially adulteries, thefts, .nurders, false testimonieL;, and several 
:>thersmeiitioned in thedecaloguo ; likewise that la.sciviouB and obf-cene 
^hcughtsalsoareadulterv ; th."b frauds and illicit gains alsoare thefts ;that 
batrcds and revenges also arc murders ; and that lies aud hlasphemiea also 
"ire false testimonies ; and fc on. I.,et him learn all these things as he 
advances from infancy to adolescence. 3. VV hen man begins to think from 
himself, which take.s place after tin ago of adolescence ; it must then be 
Ihotirst and primcry thing with h\m,todesititfron% doing evUn, hfcau$« 
ihey are sins against t/ie Hord, thus against God; and that if he does 
them, he cannot hav :t rral Hfc, hut hell ; and altorwardrt as he advances 
In years, to shun th'in as accursed, aud turn away from them even in 
ihcaightand intention. .'Jut in order to delist from them, and shun and 
become averse to t'.ert he must supplicate the J.okd for aid. The sins 
from which lie mus'. desis* and Avhich he mest nhuu and become averse to 
aro principally 'dulteries, frauds, illicit gains, hatreds, revenges, lies, 
blaspkemios, and pride, a.id solf-couceit. 4. In proportion as man dettsts 
those things by reason of iheir being ag.ijnst tlio Word, and thence agaiui 
God, in the same pt^iportiou communication is given him with the Loud, 
and conjunction i.sefilpcled for liim with heaven ; for the Lord enters, aud 
with the i^oRD heaven, as sins are removed ; for t.'ioso aud th'^ix falses aru 
ihesole hindrances The reason is, because man is set in tlic midst le- 
tween heaven a«d hell, wherefore hell acts from the one part, and heu\ e.i 
from the other in proportion therefoio as evils are removed which are 
from hell in the same proportirn goods from lieaven enter, for the Loiu) 
says, ' IJehoId I stand at tlio door and knock ; if an;- man shall hear my 
voice, and open (he door, I will come in to him." Kev. id. 20. But ilmun 
desists from doing the.-o evils from any other cause than because they aro 
sins, and against the Word.and thence against God, conjunction with hea- 
Ten is not effected for bini, because he de.'^ists from hin.self, and i:ot fiora 
the Lord. The I.ord U in the Word, insomuch that He is called the Woi il, 
John i., 1, 2, 3, 4. because tho Word i;i frt m liiin ; that hence there is coii- 
function of heaven with tlie man of the Church bv the Word, may he si en 
in the work concernin;; Ifrar^cn ami Hell, Js'o. 803 to 310. Ko far tliesi .^k 
man detests tho.-;e sins, s'l fargood affections enter, as, fir examp'e, :■'> l;r 
as he detests 'adulteries, ^o t'lr cliasfit}- eiiter^ ; S(j fnr as he dete.-.ts fra.ui; 
and unlawful gains, so f;ir siincerity and jastieo enter, so far us lu! (Ictt -i-i 
hatred and revenge--, so far charity eniera ; .>-o liir as he de.ests lies iiuJ 
blasphemies, so far truth enters, and so far us he detests pride aiidselie; '-h 
c» it, so far enters humility before God, and the lovoof ids neighbor as lii..:< 
self, ami so on ; from hence it follows that to shun evils, is to do g.n 'l' 
6. So far as man is in tliese good affections, so far ho is led of the L<>iii>i 
and not of himself, and so far aa he acts from them, so far he doee ^ood 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



0'» 



horefon they 
devil til sul)ju. 
cit obt'dii'iu'P, 
11 contimially, 
infernal lire' 
rniia Cnft'stia 
w. jj'^^rpotrators 

>0 Apocahjpxt 
love is tlie 
ef thing of the 
i to know how 
nustcon(>titut« 
lUHt constituto 
h of truth, and 

hich i« thit*, 1. 
and learn from 
)f liifl religion ; 
I) in the tiin) of 

Chap xxviii. 
hell, and that 
d, Irom a com- 

acd that they 
t'o, and several 
LiH and obhcene 
are thcftH ; that 
lanphemies also 
*o things aa he 
B to think from 
it must then be 
f evils, hevautt 
' that {f he does 
I art he advances 
a them even in 
, and flhuD and 
■ aid. The »\m 
iccorae averse to 

reveuge», lies, 
I a» man dettsta 
d thence agaim' 
with the Lord, 
,oRD enters, aud 
i thoir falses aru 
n the midst li'- 
jart, and heiu ea 
lOved which are 
er, for the Loud 
an shall hear my 
.20. Butitmnn 
because they are 
notion with hea- 
!lf, and i;ot fiorn 
called the Wortl, 
^nco there is cos;- 
ord, may be neen 
. !Si) fur lli«!i lis 
r exiunj)'e, :•>> l"'" 
IP detc.-ts fra'.uli 

f:ir lis he di'tc-ti 
' de.osts lies uiiJ 
rido aiidseli'-ocii" 

nciglibnras liii.> 
s, is to do g.ii il' 
led of the LoiiD, 
far he doet ^o'^'i 



works ; because h. uoos there from the Lord and not from bimselt ; he 
then acts Irom charity, from sincerity and juitice, from charity, from 
Iriilh, iu humility befor God, ard from these no one can act of iiimself. 
7. ihe spiritual affections which ar beato'.ed by the Lord on th- man 
wh(. is in tuose principlus, and acti: from them, are the affection of know- 
ing and understandini^ the truths, and goods of heaven and the churc !i, to- 
gether with t)>(' atfeciio I f willln/r and doing them ; likewise theafTeo* 
ti>iii attended with zeal of fightinn against falses and evils, and dissipating 
them with himsel'anr! with 'there ; hencr man has faith and lOve, ana 
heiici' he hu.s intelligeuco und wi8d;:'m. 8. ThuB, and not otherwise, is man 
reform d , ani. m far ns >io knows trutho, and wills and does thorn, so far 
be regeiiervted, an ^ from batural becomes spiritual, in like manner bU 
faith and his lov:. 

If viL are not romrve ecause they are sins, all things which man 
thinks, speaks, wilL and does, aro Dot good nor true before Uod, however 
tliey appear us p;ood an -J truo beforo tlie world ; tlie reason is, because they 
a'e not from the Lord, but from man, for it 'a the love of man and of the 
world, from which they arc and wliich is in them. Most people of this 
da;' believe, thuttboy V all comoint' heaven if they have faith, lirepious- 
ly.'ani' «lo /rood works ; an'' yet they do not hold evils in aversion because 
lliey aro sins, vvh nee '^hcy either commit them t believe them to be al- 
lowable, und they that believe them to be allowable, commit them when 
opportunity is given ; but let them know that their faith n not faith, that 
their piety i-i not p'ety, and that their good works are nut good, for they 
flow from th" impurities which 11" inwardly concealed in man, theexter- 
nal:' deriving all their quality from the internals ; lor the Lord says, "Thou 
blind Pharisee, cleanse tlrst the inside uf the cup and platter, that the out- 
8idu may bH clean also. Mutt xxiii. 26 ; from these considerations it maj 
now bo evident, thatif man should fulfil all things of thelaw, if heflhoulc 
give much totht^ po:)r. if lie should do good to the fatherless and the widow, 
nay if he should also give bread to thu hungry and drink to thothirstr, 
gather the sojourners, clothe the naked, visit the sick, go to the bound .r\ 
prison ; if he shouM preach the gospel strenuously, convert the tiontiles, 
frequent temples, hear preachings with devotion, attend the sacrament of 
the supper frequently devote time to prayer, with more such things, and 
his internal is not purified from Imtred and revenge, from craftiness r.ni! 
malice, from insincerity and injustice, from the filthy delight of adultery, 
from the love of eelf and the love of ruling thence aerived, and the priac 
of sell-intelligence, from contempt of others in comparison with himself, 
and from all other evils and the lalses thence derived ; -till nil these works 
are hypocritical, and are from the man himself aud not from the Lord. 
But on the other hand, those same works, when the internal !.<« purifled, 
are all good, because they are from the Lord with man ; who cannot 
otherwise than do them, because he is in the faith and love of doing them." 
—"These are the works, which are understood in the Word by works, 
which can by no means bo separated from faith, for faith sepurat'^d froo:. 
thorn is dead, and dead faith is a faith of what is false from an -^vil love, or 
is the thought that a thing is so, whilst tho lifeisbtill vil." — "That to 
ai'stuin from evils from anv other cause whatever, than from the Word, 
d IS not purify the internal man, is evident from the origin of vil works 
and from the origin of good wor s ; as hj who abstains from adulteries 
from fear of the civil law and its punishments, from fear ot the loss of &me 
and thenceof honor, from fear of hurt arising from poverty, covetou<:aes8 0r 
avarice ; from fear cf sickness from them, andconsequoncintranquiilty of 
life, from infii mity arising from abuse, or from age, or even from natural 
good and the moral principle thence derived, no not; being becoming apd 

firopcr, &c., and from these causes alone lives chastely, still he is interior- 
y unchaste and an adulterer, if he does n it abstain from them out of spir- 
Ituiil faith, which faith is, that adulterieo are infernal, because they are 
contrary to the Divine Law, and thcnco contrary to thefear of Uod, and 
the love of tho neighbour. And so io ali other cases." 

As many may uesiio further information respecting doctrines which 
aro silently but'surely finding their way with transforming power among 
nil Classen of Ch'istiaiie, I will now insert in their order, 1. VVho are thfsw 
now Church people? by llev. Dr. Uayloy of Lo don. 3. The Kibb».nd Of 



m 



3t 



An-ENMX TO THE AKTTZANS .Vii>it. 



V,Ui<\ from " f lio DIviiv 'A'oid Opr-nofl," hy tlm •^amo au+hor, Int^-nHod to 
il It'll r«Ui (lie cmrt'ni iin.l.MK.c of ;' itTKUilM,' color*, ftn. In thr^ ^^'■^rll. ;). 
ih" Ku»wf:vL.i"(> (>f;;niiiti rviinv I.<'M at 2su. 2'), (.oDpi-r Union, NowYork, iir 
» .;t/i Rt'iiortpr. 4. Li-t r i" Swi'ik'iibnr>,''« t!ii(>li^;:ioiil vrriiiri.", '(.fr.'iiifr 
witli ttio iiaiiios of a (\'vv >aluublo cuUaturul M'orkrt which will bu I'ouuii 
well worthy olporuHal, 

WHO AR"". THESE NEW CnURCIl PEOPLE f 









Th<> froiincncy with wkich thp Bentimenta unloldort in tlip wn'tinj-rs of 
aiT(!<h!nbcTg, and otn*rn in illustration of thom, arc niotwlili Tpoih tiino 
(o tiino, Imiiolsniany iiirjitiriiifr iiiinrti* to aKk tlio question above rw iiltfl, 
and lias incliicfil tite inforin;<i)oii to b« given which is aflu.rdvd in Uie 
lbilowinf{ dialoffuo : — 

Q. Who iini tlit'"t' N»'W Church people T 

A. They aro Ciiristiain wid bol.md that the hifjher cultnrp and pivater 
progreL*8 of the worM ton'iiidn lisrhl, charity, and pface, (li'n<Mid \i\un\ a 
*j!omt communion with th^) Lord .IrmH Christ, u-t tlio all in all to tlii 
Charch, (jod over all, in VVlnini dwells all the fulness of the UodliMad 
bodily. 

Q. But why llif-y do fhey cinll fboniselves Swedonbo'-.'^ians ? 

A. They do not c:il) tlicm-oUe.* .SwedcuboreiiHiH ; but N k\v Chcrch- 
JfiiN, or ''lifijliuii.t of <lif' New tlrTusalein Church. I'liey eiloem very 
highly the wri»in;rH of S>.redi'n^or;». wlio \v;h an iliii.->triom ^('^vallt of tlifl 
Lord .!e=ii3. iiy ThiitvmlHin l-isivritin^n rhey have l>een greatly pmriicd ; 
they iind themselves ji-xivted to draw nearer to tlio havioiir, tu iini'ur- 
i-laiid the Sciipturei more thoroughly, and iioroeivf' their won-irouu 
Divinity. Theso writing-* alwo contain much oonceiniiifj the 'uwh and 
circumstance-! of the cte'-nal world. 

Q. l;ut whu i5 i!ii-f about the New JeruRHlem : Do they thiult u^-,-eat 
golde"' city is to coisie down to tiie earth through the cloudb f 

A. K'it in Die len^t. Th-m* out ward .vontlerHuud HpeciafiieH lU the sKlns 
Ihoy leave to oth"r.;. They uud'oi^tand tiiiil; Hentimi-nts golden and eieitr 
tre to enter nu!!!'-! miu'H. TMev only (;xpect tho world tu become e.'Hrcr 
lik(? heaven, as ne^v oriocfplc^of Hf^^d- love, andjuHtice. become rnorefjliy 
received, ae.d oxtr;i'i\ely Kpsesul amnnp men. They believe thoro.i);i:iiif 
the word'* of the Fjori .Jesns, " riio kinn;dom of (ioii cometh not liy u.iV 
Wfird obHiTv.n'ion ; in ithor nh-Il men fiy. !o litre ! imm-, loSliere p.iit tlio 
kinxdoiii of Cod i« '.-i»hin y^n" (Luke xm. 'ill. Woc.u! inaUeoii/ Irtio 
vrorM happier to-dny if we wi!1. A ;id the whole world inust learn fo l« cnnie 
wis^r. ana will luul ^trivt> to bo'-.ome bettor, and so the Lord will become 
king ovenil! tl'-e earth (Zech. x\v. 9.) 

Q. iiut why f! ■> they talk of nv.vthinpf new on such flnhject-< .' Flow can 
there ba any'lhinj' new in retip-ion ? Christianity in o:d enouiii, ;i(.d if 
thev are Ch'riatluu* how can tl)#«v be neto, New Church, or auyUiing of 
thiitV.ind 1 

A. Religion, thongh tdwaynpnre at first, when revealwl from the »iOid. 
hi\'i A great teivlency ti> beconi'^ corrnpt. in time, by tee oe;(-(e.'Kiii)< 
dlaijositlonF of wo*-!'!!'/ r'.iii-^tiae!*, ■who hope to acqttiropeii and po.»i-f b/ 
uiaKlnjj rol'>^:ion popular, atio ileba«in,t: it by popular errors ana numao 
trad f.ion». rather than by e!''v;itin(? th> people to jusuce, jndf^nient. and 
the loTO oi'Cod. Sio the .T'j:^.* iii.ine the cominandments of (iod of untie 
ctf"Ct by tbeir trsdltiorH. fio (Jlirininnity, by corrnptiong cuinnu nchig 
In too time of Con'-^iaMtioe, becinip a massof mysteries mid superJiirioiis. 
Tho flrfit ffoat '.rror wa.s n (jo<l rsnid to be ot th'-eo separate Divine piT'ons, 
and thuu t!io worship of Mary nn a ^emi-divine p(Mvson. Ne.xt camo p;ay- 
irg to a ho^t of dead men. rind carinpr more fov their bone.i and r^'Iic^ 
tL.-iu for keeping t'le commandment", of (iod. The .■^crjr-turos were •uut 
Btj ay,»7 from tho people nritil the thao oftiiolfi^formation, and t'uon.'rli iu 
toi* rounu / F.nd Arnerca we hsiv-i the ;':Jonpture^ fully uo«v, nirt^y el :lin 
leudir,;? '■•■■)Tr;vj''ioni of darV •imi'.i remain, iliei^e oeiver.'^ioiip iiud evti:; 
TVii«oh nniiwd'with, and otho'-.^ vriiirh ari.woui I'fi.e-.i. tn-it'« r-.-ij-.' '.; "A 
end h irg 't to »ti end , tLee :he L-^rd Jertuu reveKl'i iternai Traln> n>:\-<h 
a;.d Oil! i.-, them liow ; they i;r>' now lo ui. Ii ic «a r.tt u Id rciatiou to 



ATPENnlX TO THK aRTI/ANh' (H'IDE. 



35 



r fTitf'if'i'fl to 
\hc W, r.l. :), 
INowYoil.. or 

will bo louud 



IT 

IIP writiiifxs of 
,vill« Troin time 
bi)v»' n'C ii'.i'il, 
llbnlod iu Ui8 



ill all to Hi^ 
f tho <jO(l>ifail 

ns ? 

TS R\V CHITRCH- 
M rtTVillll of <llfl 

^iour, to uu'iir- 
their woniir-iuii 
5 the 'ttWH mill 

ny think ttgi-eak 

ivfiU'H lU thft sKio« 
(ToWlon ftiul cit'nr 
o bt'ooiti'i i!''nrf*r 
^conu' nitirot.'iiy 
lifvt* tlioi'o.ii'iily 
itjth iiiit \<v "HV 
oiherp H»a ilia 
i! maUouii ■ I rtlo 
t If'arii fo hi come 
A)ril wiU b<'ct»!ue 

jpct< ! How "^ft" 
or rtiv/ThiiiK of 



'ti from tlio Ji'>fd, 

tne o(^il-^«"»''>K 
n^n ftii'i |)(>>uir by 
rrurs and ivunao 

ce ju(iK'"P>''' ^"'^ 
g <')f (jioti of none 
rit)nr» cuinnit n<i»iR 
iiml 8«[)i'r''iir.oiin. 
Lte l)iviiu> imt»<)1i8, 
Npxtcamo )i.av- 

bonitH iiiif' '"'''^'^ 
rjr-turos wire ■ii\'' 
ion, and tUonEli lu 
now. niHi.y <'t !»" 

. t»i-iV'' f.:'" ■' " ^ 

Lfrnai iruuisiinv*n 
tt u lii rclaimu to 



thoto tlnio.^ Flo who «ftt upon the throne s id, Bkiioi.u, I maku all 

TlllVOa NKW ( lt»'V Xix I)'. 

(2. Wliatttit' tiic... Uiiw rnnolples yo'i nyruK ni f Toll in oho lirsi. 

A. It is now ; vHilt is tniiy o d. U in rlml Joliov.ih, tiic otorual Irod, 
our ('roator. iH abHolufely dhh, and lit) l)('("aini! our iiaviou. .Khus Jhrl'*t. 
!S(> tliHt 111 Jfnus Clirist is .lio first auil Iho latt, tlio human ..nd tiio 
J)iviiie, the Father, tlio Mon.ui.d tiio Itoiy Spirit, thu clurniil I'rinlty. Ue 
is all in all to m», the Katlu^r Ih !i: II im aa lUu uoul i. in tuo hoay 

y YolChrlHtpriiyed to tfiO Fuihor I" 

A That was while liewapiD tlio world in tiintj^ of temptation, while 
Ho had our uatiiro, with \U liilinnitic-i Hud iiapurfectioiid, and llo had tc 
hach us how to suft'er aud to pray The iiuinan prayed to tiio Divine, as 
our lower nature appeals for Buccour to our btUter nature in times of 
(listre.sB It 6et>m9 to uh, in deep triala, as if tliere were two persons in \in ; 
buttlieyare not two persons, and wlu'in the trial is over and jwrfectitni 
ii'iuined, then there in entire unity, Mo wlnn Christ's trialn WHrooverand 
Jiis IminHnity wa« glontied, iliofe was no praying to th > Father, but Ho 
wao mauifestly the Father in tlio Son (.John xiv, IH). He who sees Him 
Hi'fS tho Father (John xiv. 7,8,9). lie in tlie ev.'tlastiiiff Father and tho 
J'riiine of I'euco (Isa. Ix 6. He is the root and the oIlHpring of IJavid, 
the hriglit and the morning .StariUev. xxii, 1(3). Ho is the 8un of righ- 
teousness (Mai. iv. i5). Tlio Isn-ad of I Ifu .John vi. 43). The Liglit of tho 
world (tlohnix. 6), The King of liiiigs und Lord of lords (Kev. xix. 16). 
tome to Him, pray to Him, follow Him, borvo Him 

Q. Hut how about the Atonement ? 

A. CTirixtiaiis ottlio 2^i'w iJereaalem hoilove In the Atonement as tho 
Apostio Paul expre^so."? it, (jod was in Christ reoouoiliug tlio world unto 
Hiiiwlf (2 Cor. v. 1). He reconciled It to Himself tu.si in His own 
Humanity (John xvii. 19 ; Eph. ii. 15). He ba« bwn reconciling it ever 
since hy ilia ijosoel, and He will reconcile it to HiiuscU' iu us If we wlU 
repent, turn to Him, and become new men. 

Q. Is there not something peculiar nboiil th(» wiiy of viewing ttio Miblo y 

A. Wo have precisely the Mine llible thatyou have, butthe New Church 
dooliires the BiDlo to liavo a spiritual meaning, over and above the literal 
meaning; not denying the literal meaning, b .t using it for liistory, for 
doctrine, and i'orodiiloatioTi, as other Chrmtlaiis do. The spiritual mean- 
ing constitutes a Bible within tho Bible, always treating of tho Church, 
thi) regeneration of tho soul, of tlie battlet< wo wage hgainst our fains, and 
of the thing.s of heaven. But this is only wiiat tlie Saviour said, My 
wordu, they are spirit and tljey arelife John vi. 0.3) ; the apostles doclares 
the same thing. The letter knleth, but the spirit givoth lift; (2 Cor. iii. 6). 

V. But iiow about tlie early cliuptt^rs of (jenesis '( 

A. Up to tho history of Abrahiim, tliey are Divine allogorie!<, lull of 
spiritual wisdom, clothed iu tlie Ifiiiguage of i)arablo, in tlic manner of 
tliat most ancient literature* that wa.^ the oriain of tlio tgyjitiaii Hiero- 
glyphics, and t ho beautiful fables oi tho Grfess. Hence tiiero i« no cou- 
trkdiction between tlii.s jiart of tne Bible and geology JN'atural crofttion is 
the emblematical account of iiinral an 1 spiritual ereariou. 

il, Is A man, according to these views, nave d by t axth alonk In th« 
merit!? oi his isaviour ? 

A. Ho must iiavo i«iui in the nieiit of iiis Saviour, and he ha.^ no 
mt'ritsof liis own. But lie mii«t also iiKi.iiiVic, i,ovK,anil i>«) hisi^aviour's 
will, or lie cannot be prepared for lieuven. In i(iii.,'ion, love is the great 
princinlo, tlie root >f all the rest (Kom. xiii. 8 10 ; i\latf. xxii, :J7 40). The 
Apostle I'aul Kiiid, Kow abideih tliese tiiiee. faith, hope luui charity 'or 
love), and tlii' greate.«t of these is charity (or lovi-l ((Jor xiii. 1,5). 

ill' will) luvos tlie Lord Jesus, wiii Hi.Lii;vii ILm woni-. liiid do Ills 
commandincats. F'ulth aione is dead, t'lo aporUle said iJ'uncr. ii. 26) ; 
whether it is in the merits of our .Saviour, which are truly infinite, or 
anything :1bo. The faith which lovej and works is the only faith which 
Bavo.'. 

< ;. How 1 : 11 heavenly character iorui<Hi T 

A. Vir.-t. I'y u eoiu'letiou lU' ou'* siiiia;aoso, (lion by rup«.'ntiince and 

rrav<>r. Next, liy persovernnco m wi'll-doiiig, by conHrlenttaltli In'tJio 
,iird Jesus, iaithlliUioas in the times of thai uiid tomiitatiou ; by daily 



fi 



3G 



AlFEt'DIX TO TUE ARNIZANS GUIDE. 



If 



loading of tlie Word of Gt ', and prayer, and hj Iho diligent use of th« 
lucaii;) t/f giiice. Itius tho ta^^tes n.id aims of iii'u bocotne ontiroly alterod, 
and tho soui dt'lights in lioavunJy things as its chiof joy. 

(j. What tlion is tho Aew Churchman's uaLK of lifk f 

A. Precisely tliat tauL'ht m tho Oiuiiadia thoTse.v Testament by tho 
Lord Jiwus aad His apostiea : namely, in humility, faiUi, and love to koep 
tho feu Commandments. What doth tho Lord thy God require of thee, 
but to do justly, love mercy, and walk humb.y with tliy God ? (Micah vi. 
8). Jesus eaid. If yo lovo me, keep my commandments (John xiv. 16). 
Tho Apo.^tle i'aui wrote, Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcisiou is 
nothing, but KKKPiNO TUB c)MMAND.\iKNT8 OK GOD (1 Cor. vii. 11^> ; and 
Jo n declared This Is the lovo of God, thut we keep His commandmeuts : 
and His commandments are notgriovous(l John v. 3). 

We must keep tho Divine precepts in all theemployments, enpagemonrs, 
habits, and ucts, of oaily lifu ; without that, our belief is vam, aud our 
religion self-decei)tion. 

Q. Can this bi) done by a man's own strength and merit ? 

A. No man has any Btron;u'th or any merit, but what coiies from God, 
every moment of liis life. But God our Saviour does giv^ strength to 
every one who truly seeks Ilim. lie also gives His angels charge to aid 
us from our birth to ur grave. Aud they lovingly receive us and wel- 
come us wht n we die. 

Q. Aro all children who die taken to heaven ? 

A, :)!i, oorliiidly. Angels of love, who have been their guardian angeig 
take them inio their blessed care in h<aven, train them in love aud wis- 
dom, and thus lead them to enjoy the full bliss of their heavenly honi(!. 

(j. Do people know each other after death, who have kuowu each other 
In the world '/ 

A. Ce-taiuly, and they will continue together, if their states agree aud 
will iiermit. 

U. Is there any other especial feature of tho principles of this New 
Church ? 

A. Yes ; tlie very liigh and fiacred character it attributes to marriage. 
This holy institution is regarded as one for which the Creator has formed 
tho sexes in mind aud body, and should bo entered upon only with thos^ 
who are constantlv striving? to overcome self, to hvo tor heaven as weh aa 
for earth, and who shun sins against purity, as the deadliest of sius. 

Q. How does this Church regard the* Resurrection '( 

A. Every person lias ■» s])iritual body as well as a natural body (1 Cor. 
XV. 41). This si)iricual body becomes more beautiful by ro^^eneration, or 
more ugly by sin. Fle-h aiid blood, as the Apostle t^ays, cannot inherit 
the kiu;((l()i,i of God (I Cor. xv. 50). Thy body thou soweat is not the 
bodv tliat shall bo (v. HI). But the angelic Chri.-stian mind has a heavenly 
body, for God giveth it a body as it hath pleased Ilim, and to every seed 
hisovviibody (v. 38). Absent from tho earthly body, he is present with 
the Lord (2 Cor. v. 8). Evil persons have a .spiritual body as ugly as they 
aro vicious. Both are litted at death f )r the worlds to which they go : 
and the dust returns to the dust whence it was. All ''lo parts of tho 
Gospel which treat of tho resurrection of man, mean the resurrection of 
tho soul from the aeatli of sin, and the grave of corruption, to the life of 
right"OU.-ncss anil si)iritunl health (John V. 24,25 ; Ejih. v. 2, ."i). 1 not 
v'liis .scriptural view far more sensible than to imagine that all who have 
died are without bodies, until the scattered dust of bodi(>s wliicli had 
every hour bcm ch'iit</iny diirivg I'lfr, and ha<l he(>n taking new foruH in 
the vegetable world, been eaten by" animals, and then become parts of 
other liuinan bodies, for uo one kiiows how many thousand* of yeais, is 
brought togetlur again '; 

Q, But cannot God's omnipotence da this ? 

A. God never uses His omuipoteiico to do what if! foolisih and wrong. 
Wo have no warrant to call in God's jtovver to justify our blunders. 
Whatever God does is the best thing, done in \)w wihkst way. 
Wl en and where does juilgment take place y 

Tho (rue Chiistian judges hirtiseirr-oni day toriay. iVit, .after dci^h, 
he a;)pfa -s before lheju<l;;ment seat, of Christ in the spirit W(>rhl, whid'. I-* 
an int(>nj'e(iK--to state between heaven and hell, After deaili the judg- 
ment (ileb. IX. >,",i 



1 



APPEiNDIX TO THE AUTIZANS GUIDE. 



37 



use of thfl 
oly altered, 



Tiont by tho 
ovc to koep 
lire of thee, 
? (Micah vi. 
hu xiv. 16). 
cumcisiou is 
vii. If ^ ; and 
aandmeutd : 

ngagemcufs, 
uin, aud our 



es from God, 

btrougth to 

;hargo to aid 

3 U8 and wel- 



ardian angels 
love and wis- 
.'lily home. 
,vu each otliei 

vtcs agree and 

( of tliis NfW 

.9 to marriage, 
or has fornied 
oly with tiiosQ 
[yen as well as 
t of sins. 

,1 body (1 Cor. 
!j;oiierAtioii, or 
cannot iiiUerit 
vest is not tlie 
lias a heaveulv 
d to every b(H'd 
8 present witli 
as ugly as they 
vhich they go : 
T?irtii of the 
resurrootion of 
to tho life of 
|v.2, ft). 1 "'^t 
it all who hayc 
ioH which hiid 
g new fornn in 
(MX. me vai'ts ol 
iidi of yeais, is 

iir.h and wrong, 
our blunder.*. 

WAY. 

;-'T, after death, 
world, vvUicii H 
lieatU the juds- 



1 



Q Is there much said in Scripture about this intermediate state, or 
world of judgment and inotructioi: ? 

A. Verv much. It is tho VA)rld the prophets eaw in vision, or when 
t;ie r spirituil eyes we-e opened (Numb. xxiv. 16; 2 Kings vi. 17) John in 
tiio Kevolatious desuTibes what ho saw in that world through all ltd 
cl;ap+' rs ; h aven was above him— tlie bottomless pit below liim. 

(2- I'l'.t what, tnen, is meant by the judgment at the end of tl"e world T 

A. The end of tlie world, in the original Greek of the iScriittirOH, is tho 
end of tho auk or dispknsation ; and when a Church has been for ages 
cci rupt, tho bulk of the people have been cherish'.uc mistaken principes, 
and iu many thiugs doing wrong the greater part of their lives, as in dis- 
liking and hatiug others that were not of their owr. Church, and suppos- 
i.ig that it was right all the while. These cannot be so soon introduced as 
ill parer times, eitlier to h^'aven or to Jiell, and great numbers ga'her and 
reinaiu in the spirit world, the world of judgment, lint, at the end of 
tiie age, all are judged, and a i.ew age or new dispensation is begun in the 
world. Tiieetid of the world moans tho end of a dispensation, not tho end 
of tho universe (Ps. Ixxv. 8 : Isa. xxiv. 16,19) 

Q Then is not tho natural world to come to an end at all ? 

A. Certainly not. According to .Scripture, tho world and the universe 
will endure for ever (See Eccles. i. 4 ; I's. Ixxii. 5,17 ; lxxviii.69 ; civ. 5 ; 
cxlviii. 6; xciii. 1 ; xcvi. 10). 

Q, What, then, do you understand by the second coming of our Lord 
in the clouds of heaven ? 

A. lie has be"n banished fVom His Church by grievous errors and evil 

Practices. He comes nearer wl en men receive His truth in love and obey 
liui. He conies nearer in the fuller opening ol His Word. lie Comes in 
truer piinciples into the hearts and minds of men, He comes by the ex- 
tension of Ills truth into all the ways and works of men. Light is like 
the inward glory of tho Bible ; the clouds mean the outward language of 
tho Hiblc, through which an inner glory shine-'. lie comes in cli ids 
when Ho makes Hinitielf known to men in the language of His Word, 
which is plainly there revealing tho true character of Himself, His will, 
and His kiiigtlom, though they had Ibrgotten or ignored it. All the 
writers of the Bible are called a cloud of witnesses (Heb. xii. 1). Those 
wiio take the letter without tho spirit are said to be cl )uds without water 
(Jude 12), Tho Lord comes in tho clouds of heaven when He applies 
His Word to the hearts and minds of ineu ; — in power and great glory, 
when He revc^als the \ jwcr of His Word nd the great glory of His king- 
dom. IJehold, I stand at tho door and knock ; if any man will open tho 
door, I will c mo in to him, and sup with him, and he with Me, Tho king- 
doms of this world shall become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His 
Christ, aud He. as Uue Divine Person, shall roigu forever and ever. (Rev. 
xi, 15.) 

(i. What ifi taught as to heaven and hell ? 

A. Very much, so that the laws of both may now bo fully understood. 
Ile.iven is formed of tho heavenly-miniled, who have been made such by 
regeneration, more or le.>is perfectly done on earth. The heavenly ones 
aio arranged in most perfect order.by tho laws of divine love and wisdom; 
or in our Father's hou.se there are many mansipns (John xiv. 2.) Hell 
is composed oft ho.^o who have made hell upon earth ; they take tliem- 
eelvos, their passions, and their lusts with them into pain and sorrow. The 
rage, the hate, 'he torment, the misery they excite and inflict upon one 
another is the hcll-Ure in which they live. The never-dying worm is tho 
bynibol of their low, grovelling selfishness : it is their worm (Mark ix. 14), 
not God's. The wicked create their Are, they keep it alive themselves 
Isa.^ix. 18 ; 1.11) ; the false and insane thoughts of every kind which they 
conceive, and in w'lich they live, make the utter darkness of their abode, 
of which the Saviour speaks. (Matt. xxii. 13.) 

Q. Do you use the two sacraments instituted by our Lord, of Baptism 
and the Holy Supper ? 

A. Oh certainly, aud w? pee a sacred and most edifying meaning in each 
ofiiieni. ISaptisin we udniinister lu the lu.ui'; ol iiie Father, t*ou, and 
Ilolv Spirit, us a derticatioii of the peisou li .priyefl to the service of tlie 
Lord Jesus, and tho water Is a symbol of that i.xviNo TiurTii which is th< 



I ^1 

i i 
i < 

I il 



' ' 'Mm 



li 



3a 



APrSNDIX TO 'J"HK AttTIZANe' GUIDE. 



tif! 



lii 



i t 

hi 



1 1' '.J 
1 



■\VatT otI,if<>, and by wlilcfi tho soul ij to bo puriikrl. 'Ilic Broad 
thf Vv HI.' ii. t'.-.f il'ii]^ >SUii, IT, .ire th" . yiiib-ils ol'llio P' odtic;?^ wlli.li 
IjiiiU i.;-ii liio iir IAD ')K ill-;.;, and tfie \Vi.-fi.!tii v.liich Up cuIIh 
" Is'iiW WiSi; or TUK lliwtJUo.M." \V!i<'ii we oincevcly receive Uuse 



17 id 
the 

W8 



n'ceive iliiii. Wo eat liis FLtsu and drink Ilia blood, and have ixicn- 

NAI, LIKK. 

12. Ujt do yuu think that other C riRtiansliavo not truth as woll af<you; 
and that no one can be saved but those who join your communion 1 

A. Ctrtainly not. There is much iruth in evory deuondnation of 
Christians, especially among those who pos^ens and read the Word of 
God with diligence and pruyer. We believe, moreover, that everyone, 
\viil bo saved who loves God, and strives to do Hi.^ will in ohunning evil 
find doing p;ood according to what in his heart ho believes 1-? ^"> true, 
■.vhelhcr he be ofilie Church of England, whofo pious andkamed clergyl 
'iotwith tanding many exceptions, we revere and admire, whone Pravere 
I'o k, with serious doctrinal delects, has many excellencies, and wIioho 
reverence lor the W\>rd of God U her cliief glory ; or worthy zealous 
Protc^taut Dissenters, or good Itoraan Catholics, good Jews, or (jentiles 
rho.-<e who love God and work nghtoousness according to tho best of their 
knowledge, will bo relieved of their errors afterdeath, and form part of 
the sublime fold in heaven, of which our Savionr speaks. " Other sheep 
have I that are not of this fold, them also must 1 bring, that there may t)e 
OKB FOLD and otxK suKPHKici)"(John iv. 14). The Apostle Peter spoke 
very clearly on tho same point when he said, " Of a truth J perceive that 
God in no respecter of i^n-ons ; but in evf ry nation he that fenreth God, 
and workoth righteousness, is accei>tedof Hini.-' (Acts x. 34, 35). 

Q. Is it, then, of no imi)ortanco whether we belong to a true religion or 
a false one ; whether we believe truth or error ? 

A. It is only truth, iii any system, that does a person good, but there is 
much truth attached to every religion. Ermr is always a hiiuiranee and 
a detriment. Truth is cl.'>ar and tiitl of CMUifort Error is obscure, per- 
plexing, and leads to di3tre8.><. Trulh is diivlight. Error isafop. Jt is 
Di'cause we believe tho Lord has given at this lime abnndiin e ot tnuhg 
which arc far from being generally acknowledtrcd, which are edifying, 
delightful, andsticngtheninglous, that we wj-hail around us, bofli men 
and Churches, to accept them, and be strong hcni'd and bless- «l also, so 
that tiio will of God may more x>erlectly bo done upon earth, asit ii done 
in lieaveu. 

Dear reader, would you posse-rs a .scriptural, jpiritnnl, rational. >-nving 

w;.lk toward! Iii'a^cn, e"in." iind hear fliese 

i.aalem, let tlicm beoliid .Swi'denboigians, or 

what you like. Doyou wi»!i to seemankiud i^.-iuii g out ol suj)erslition, 

soclarianisni, rationalism, narrowness, and dir'cness, into tiic srlo •iinis 

no 
lly 



religion lu aid you in your 
Christians of the xNew .iora.^; 



liberty of the children of light, then come and hear. Do von wisii to ' 
goodness aiid trutli extending their sncn-d influence, ainl .-in and f.l., 
shown lo be the disorderly, biuta!, coarse, and wortnless things they are 
then conn.' and hear, 

We address you In the language of Moses to .Jetliro We are journeviTig 
nnto the place of which tho Lord said, 1 wi:l giv(> it von: mme vitii u;f 
and wo will do you good ; lor tho Lord hath spok.Mi gor.d concerning 
Israel. Andilshall be, if you go with us, yea, if sh';ill bo, that what good- 
ness the Lord shall do unto us, the anme will we do unto theo. (Numlj. x. 
29,32,. 

THE HIHBAND OF BLUE. 

" Speak unto tho childrnn of Israel, end bid them that they make ilum 
fringes in the biiiders of their garments throu;ih>Kt their gineration-, 
and tliat they put upon ihe friiig,' of )ho boid.i.^ a ribl)and of blue: Aid 
it shall be unto yuu fur a fringe, lh.it ,*e may li-ok upon it, und n:meiiilH'r 
all the coiiiuiandment- of tlio Lonl. at'd di> tliO'ri,"— Ncmb. xv. ;iS, 'd'.K 

It U ■ .rfieme'v ro \tv. n'j,M-;'tir.l vh:vt m» lUiirty -trho be:'.r ,l'.e »,aui,' (if 
Chri 'tJin, have tiie >uo-tt iTmdeqnafe view of t< iigio::. l\i many it i l:;u 
n name, Ti>er caa nienisi'ivi s ov l .< iuti.r' nv' ;ii's i.r t;.;it ;:.; :ir I .>,; , , ir..! 
ask them what thoy think of tlio principios which the uaiuo implicb, »nd 



IDE. 






APT2XDIX TO TMB 4.r I'lZl-Ns' GUIDE. 



39 



^9 



10 Broad .iiid 
11':^^ wliith iuir 
lie culls thd 
five Iht.H'. svt) 
have iTKn- 

as woll an you ; 
luiiion ? 
loniination of 

the Word of 
fit every ono, 
shunning evil 
»3 In ho Irue, 
''arned clerpy- 
vvho<«e Pravoro 
'3, and wliose 
orthy zealous 
's, or Gentiles 
10 best of their 

form part of 

' Other shoop 
t there niuy be 
le Peter ppoko 

perceive that 
t fpiireth God, 
54,35). 
me religion or 

d. but there if 
liiidrance and 

obscure, por- 
is a fop. Jt in 
HH e ot triMhs 
i are edityinfr, 

us. both inrn 
lesKi d also, so 
li, hsit ii done 



ational. "saving 
io<l bear tluso 
iTiborgians, or 
>1 snj)orfliti<iii, 
o r!;e sfbvi'Mis 
you wish to 'po 
i sin and f.lly 
hings tliey iire, 

are jourrevirig 
c'dtne villi u', 
>f-d conc^rniiitf 
'hat what cooi!- 
eo. (Numb, x, 



hey make them 
.'i;- LMieiatioii-, 
1 orbluo: Al(1 
, Hud I t:raenil)er 
R. XV. 88, 3'.t. 
■.r J-.e i,.uii.' '■;' 
1 ni;iiiy it i b.ii 
,'',i-i:ir'!,.>.iy, l^.i 
luo im^li«o, iiiui 



you Rr'A the K»rrn>. ard Utile boMdes. G htr'. agaiu, nrrm to (hiuk that 
i' .iy^M'ii Li tkii L'.'>c«'U-".it iJi b^(illf(-i;ro^■^^d, a uwi.rtu- buai. -C.'.d. itioy 
w.ii Liu=«a"tiuy wraajsle avid dijruie ab^ut its oveilufliiii^ pi inciplt :, but 
UK«:it.Mi'! iiuVi: ui oil ;,ru:n, a;.d praciiae them leM. liieso are liict' lin, loft- 
";:.i.;lcd iJaeu of Hi iijp.min amon4< th6 Uraclitc.'i of old, hIio "could .siiuj^ 
fitoiiesal an haiibreadthaud not uus.^." Thoy nre not of much u o ".^cept 
in war. Far more ekn^uoiitly and convinciu^'ly d.>en he speak for his 
rcliKiwn. whos^e life pleadn for ir; Tfho dhows that ho derives from it 
virt'if and defenco, consolattou and strength, light end blessing; ai;d 
therefore rcrommon'iinjf it in deed, can cL'o recommend it in word. " Yo 
arc )ur cpistlcH," raid the apostle, " known and read of all men." 

i'lrbnpR we cannot give a more comprohen?lve detiiiitioii of .'oUjrion, 
than to say It is the supply to the soul of ail its spiritual wautn. It i» the 
goal's home, its food and Its clothin/^; and to this latter foitiire, its beieg 
clothiug for the i (in!, we now entrent y-.ur attention. ' Blesi-ed." it is 
\>riit«'u, "in ho that wutchetb niul keepeth hia garmenis, leat he v.alk 
naked, and thov see lii? shaiae." — Kev. xvi. 15. 

That garineats, even in the .Towisli law, are the corresponding symbols 
of thore principles which cluthffi the soul, may be inferred fr.im the laws 
which we fioijuently iiiid in reliitiori to them. Unles,-; ther." wa.s a spiri- 
tual seu.se is; them, surely it would U'lt havebeoa worthy of the High and 
L'.Ciy One who iiihabiteth eternity to give directions in relation to what 
ki'id of clofhfii min should wear, fhere i« the direction not to wear a gar- 
meat of woollen nud linen togi'ther ; a,g;ain, for a woman n^.t to wear 
a garment of a man : iigaiii, for a ir.;in'tf garuieut not to be kept 
in pledge after the sua ha i gone down : and now the law bel'oro us, that ii 
liinge i-hould be made to the garment, and on the fringe a rib^.'and of 
hbie. Suivlyil caiiiiot concern ihe Inlinite Ruler of all v/orUi.>j what kind 
c»l trimming His people have to tlieir dress, or color of ribbai.d they Ivave 
thereon. 

The soil' and its concerns are surely the only appropriate objec!.>^ of a 
Kevelatiou f, <iva ttio lOteniiil l<'atlier of immortal bein>y.'. To leiioh us 
L'iw to give tiu? spirit a dress, ho that it may bi; beau'.ilul in Iho .«ig'.it of 
angels, h wortliy of liim who clothes llims(ufwith licht a.s'vitiiu garment 
[)'s. (;iv '.J]. " 1 counsel fhe.'to buy of mt; gold tiied in Ih.-^ ii.-e. that thou 
mayeat be rich ; and white raJment, tiut thuu mayosttpo clothed, and that 
the^hame of thy naktniness may nt appear."— iJov. iii. 18. 

The chief u.se of elotliiu!!; is d'^feiicc against tlio chili- and variations of 
t':o weather ; two fubeidinateuce^ arc f-r the promotion of beauty, and 
f-r diKfinotion of oll^ee, 

We can boat no los.-, t'i perceive that tiiere are mental uses correspond- 
ing to the ubovewhico recjuiiv lor the soul spiritu-i! elwUiia:^. I'l.e s ul 
biis jta futnincr aiitl ita w!nt<r, an 1 all tlie vaiietif.^ ^.f a mental, year. 
There areseanon^ of bopefulne-s and brilliancy, in which we havo all the 
tlasticilv [iiul prouii.-e of spring ; there nre states of pea^ioful warnitli, of 
con tiiiued .-.Tone liappines:!; " ttio soul's calm sunshine and the heartfelt 
joy" vvhiiti bespeak the r-pivif's. summer ; but there aro likewist; periods 
ofdecrea-ing warmth, of incipient depressions, and coolne.-a to wliat lia.s 
formr?rly yii'ldi'd the bigho.^t plcai^ure ; until at lensrthwe arrive utRtaten 
ofpr.inful chill, and even of mtensest cold, the jryle,ssne,>-p, the hopeless- 
ness, ami the sndnoRS, which nre the attendant.^ of the winter of the s ul. 

Thiri depres«o;iconoi*ion of the 8))iiitsi8 portrayed with graphic tnith- 
iulucBB by one wiio said— 

" My years are in the yellow leaf, 
Aiid all the life of life is gone ; 
The worm, the canker, and thegricf, 
Are mme alone." 

And in a sweeter niilrit o:" piety, by .another poet— 

" O jiT a Closer walk with God. 
A 3v»'.:ei, MS il ne.\v(*'.-.ivlraino ; 
A lig!:t io nhiue iinon the rotui, 
hich leads motothe Lamb. 



i't I 



^^ 



40 



APPENDIX OF THE ARTJZANS' GUIDE. 



ii 






Where is the blessedness I kne\ 

When first I saw the Lord ? 
Where is tho soul-retresliing view 

Of Jesus, and Ms Word ? 

" What peaceful hours I once enjoyed 
How sweet their memory still ; 
But they have left an aching void 
The world can never lill." 

In this wintry state, storms of distressing fears and diirkening doubts 
will rush upon the soul. Strong delusions, that we may believe a lie, will 
like lierce tempests, howl about us. Cold, harussin^, cheerless frames of 
mind, dis])iritiug anxieties, filling us with discomtbrt and dread ; bitter 
Sfelf-accusations urged upon as, perhaps by '-spiritual wickedness in liigh 
places," like pitiless hail-storms which come ui)ou us again and again, 
all teach us how real it is that the soul has its winter as well as its sum 
iu(i>r. In relation to these spiritual seusons it is written, " And it sh:ill 
bo in that day, that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem: half of 
them toward tlie former sea, and halt of them toward the hinder sea ; in 
summer and in whiter shall it be." — Zech. xiv. 8. 

Thrice happy are they who remom'oer, the living waters of the Divine 
Word will be a comfort and a blessing in joy and in sorrow, in sickness 
and in health, in summer and in winter; but they should alco bear in 
mind, that, to bo a protection in all seasons, the Divine Mercy has pro- 
vided us with spiritual clothing. 

The DOCTUINE8 of religion, when intelligently adopted and adapted to 
our particulai- states, serve this impyrtant purpose. And when those doc- 
trines are as tliey ought to be, full, comprehensive, and complete, ai)i)ly- 
ing themselves to all the departments of human alfcction, thouf^ht, and 
life, they make a complete dre.'>s. Hence it is said in Isaiah, " I will great- 
ly rejoice in tho Lord, my soul shall bo joyful in my (jod ; for he hath 
clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covon'd me with tho 
r. be of righteouHness,as ab'ldegroora decketh himself with ornaments,and 
a-i a bride adornoth herself with her jewels." — Ixi. 10. 

The doctrines wliich teach the true character of (he Lord. His infinite 
and unchauginjr Love, His unerring and all-comprehcnsivo Wisdom, His 
omnipotent and ever-orderlv Power, these form the clothing for tho 
head. The doctrines which teach and impel us to our duty to our neigh- 
bor, form the clothing to tho breast : while those which teach that our 
religion should bo operative, ind descend to inspire and sanctify every 
word and every deed of life : these are the remainder of the spirit's dress, 
even to the " shoes upon the feet." 

Witli th'^ view of the apiritual dress of the Christian, we shall see tho 
fti!lost significance in many interesting portions of the saSred Scriptures. 
When the prodigal son returned, we are informed; "Tiie father said unto 
his servants, Rring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring 
on his hand, .ind shoes on hi^ foot," — Luke xv. 22, where it is manifest 
that the clothing of a newly-penitent spivit with thos^e sacred trutlH wliich 
will form its best robe, that assurance of everlasting love which conjoins 
it to its Lord as a golden marriage-ring, and those true principles of virtu- 
ous practice which are the only bases of real religion, are the shoes upon 
the feet. 

A most important .esson iS uitorded to us by the Divine vVord in Mat- 
fliew. [t is said of those who came in to partake of tho wedding feast of 
tbe King of heaven, " And when the king caino in to seethe guests, he 
8ft TV there a man which had not on a wedding garment ; and he said unto 
iiim. ITri- d, how earnest thou in hither, not h iving a wedding garment? 
And he was speechless. Then said tho king to the servants, IJind hira 
hand and foot, .and take liim away, ind jast Iiim into outer darkness; 
tlien- shall be weeping and 'uashing of teeth"— xxii. 11 — 13. No one 
can imai»ine that tiier J was any sin in a particular earthly dress not being 
ha'i by tuoi^c who enter tho Lord's kingdom, iiut in a spirit ial point of 
vlow, nothing "n exceed tho value of the intimation it contains. The 
kingdom of heaven, iu fact ovorything hoaveuly, is tho result of a mar* 



ming doubts 
;ve a lie, will 
3SS frames of 
read ; bitter 
Ines.s ill liigh 
II and again, 
1 a» its sum 
\nd it 8h:ill 
1cm : half of 
inder sea ; in 

f the DivluG 
in sickness 

also bear in 
jrcy has pro- 
id adapted to 
len those doc- 
iplete, api)ly- 
thDUfrht, and 
" I will grcat- 
; for ho hath 

me with the 
rnaments,and 

, His infinite 
Wisdom, His 

thing for the 
to our neigli- 

3ach that our 

sanctify every 
spirit's dress, 

a shall see the 
ed Scriptures, 
ther said unto 
and put a ring 
it is manifest 
1 trutlu wliicli 
vliich conjoins 
ciplos of virtu- 
lie shoes upon 

«Vord in Mat- 
eddlng toast of 
the guests, he 
id he said unto 
ding garment? 
,nts, Bind him 
ter darkness ; 
L— 13. No ono 
Ircssnot being 
it ial point of 
contains. The 
!8Ult of a mar- 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZAJFS' GUIDE. 



41 



nago. vVisdom sweetly blonds with lovo to form the hoavonly state. It is 
not a kingdom of faith alone, but of faitli united to charity. No cold 
knowledge is tolerated tiioro, but muat bo conjoined witli alFoction for 
wluit i.- known, All is union in an angelic niitid. All heaven is united 
t.i its Uivine Head, the Lonl Jesus Cnriit. The marriage order loi^'.ii 
cmiiiiieto, and joy is tli'j result. -'Thou shalt no more bo termed Foira- 
L'itlier .ihiill thy land any more he termed Desolate ; biil thou 



ken ; nei 



iiilt 



lie called tieplizibah, and thy Laid lieulah ; lor the Lord deiightetti in 
tlief, and thy land shall be married." — L-^a. Ixii. 4. 

Nut to have on a wedding garment, then, is not to have a doctrine which 
uatolds this glorious union of truth and love in religion, and in he.iven. 
It is to be practically amon^ those who say, and do not. It is to m i!;o a 
pirado of our piety and profession, it may bo, b;it to neglect that, wicliout 
u'liich piety is nothing, faith is nothing, doctrine is nothing, name isj 
uotliing ; that puro and holy love, wliicli worketh, which hopetli, wliinh 
bi'lieveth all things ; which, insight of all the Christian virtues, is deserv- 
ing of the apostolic declaration. " And nowabuletli taitli, h )po, charity, 
iliese three, but the greatest of these in charity." 1 Co: iiitliiaus, xni, 
l.'i. When we have taken for our reli;;lon only that which relates to 
b'lief, and not that wnicli concer.is love anl conduct, the iieart un- 
chi'ckod and unchanged will be the ho i.e of se'.fishnc-J and impurity ; 
iiiul the titue will come, either in this world or in the next, when thero 
will issue from the uurogene -ate heart tlio'.e virulent tviU, which will 
luiralyso every p)Wor of good, will bind tho hand and foot, and punge 
till- spirit into the darkest abysses of folly. 

With these views of d.)Ctrines forming the clothing of tho soul, wo see 
at eiico the importance of thoso al usious to gur iieats which aro so fre- 
quently mot with in tho old as well as the N"w Tjstament When tho 
prophet predicts the advent of tho Lord into the wo; Id, and thus opjniug 
to mankind the glorious doctrines of Chrstianity, instead of tliomiseiablo 
shredsof Jewish tradii ion, h;> says, " Awake; awake,- put on thy stron^'th U 
Zion ; put ou thy bi'autiful garments, U Jerusalem, the holy clt, ; for 
lionceforth thereshall no more come in;o thee the uncircumci.'-od and tho 
iiuclean." — Is, lii 1. Again, in that well-'.cnown projjhecy which begins, 
" Ihe Spirit oi tho Lord is upon me ; because tho Lord hatii anoiut d ma 
to i)reacU good tidings um o the mei^k ; ho hath sent mo to bind up the 
broki nheartCHl ;" the prupaet Ci^ntiuies to unfold tho gi-anious purpose of 
Joliovah in the rtesli ; " lo appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to 
give unto them beauty fir ashes, tho oil ofj )y for mourning, tho garment 
of praise for tho spirit of heavi'icss ; that they might bo cilled trees of 
righteousness, tho planting of the i^ord, thit Ho might beglorilied.,' — Is. 
1x1.3. Here the doctrine of t'.iolovo of God manifest in thort«-h, is ma- 
nifestly and righto )u-ly cilled " a garment of praise " What could more 
powerfully induce thoso d to c'otho itso f with pr.iiso than tho perception 
that our Saviour is our Heavenly Father, that tho High and Lofty One 
who inhabiteth eternity had for our sakes condescended to apooar in the 
extreme of ills vast domiiits, the skin of tho universe as it wore, and by 
assumiiig and maii.taining a connection with the outer universe, ho be- 
camo First and Last iu Himself, and from Himself tills, sustains, aud 
succouisull. 

When the Lord Jesus said, "Thou hast a few names even in Sardis, 
which have notdeliled their garments : and they shal walk with me in 
white, firiiiey are worthy ; He that orercoinetii the same shall becloch- 
eJ in wliito raiment," ho is evidently d'scribin;^ theciondition of thoso wlia 
have not stiiiied their proTc-isi on of the Ciiristian doctrine with imiiurity 
of life ; tfuy have not (leiiled their garments now, and in eteriiily th 'ir 
\ ;e\vs would be stil! purer, th'>y should walk with Him in whit<>. Doc- 
trines in harmony with purest 'ruth, are white raiment wherewith wo 
ni.iy lie clotlnd, 

['••.'i .New Dispensation of n-li jfion which in the filnoas oftimo would be 
ill '.rodococ! from heavea a'.no i',; in"ii, 1,» reiiresenied .i.s coming do tvn " asa 
b;'; te adorned for her hu-b.md. ' And, b.- this lallgna^a^ we are a-'suied, 
1. Mi,,'ibt, not only that this church would regard the Lord Jesus Christ, 
tin; Divine Lamli, as the only ohjetofher supreme love, her husband, 
but tba*. her doctriuos woulii bo beyond all tirecodent, beautiful. She 



f 



I 



43 



APPEIfDIX TO THE AETIZANS' GUIDE. 



J! 



would be adorned for hor hueband. Such a glorious Rystem would nho 
lirivr> of colfi-itial truth. — such dieclosures of hoavf-nlj order,— sucli rti-co- 
veriorf of t;ie divine luwi* as existtntiu the soul; in tlio rcgtmorat" liCo ; 
in the heavenly w >rld ;intho spiritual sense ot'tlie Holy Word ; in fact, 
on all subjects of Divine Wisdom, tliat to tlio truly devout and thought- 
ful spirit, she would truly be " adorned as a bride iXtr her husband." 

Thero is an interesting intimation of the cliaracter of true lieavenly 
clothing in PsaUn xlv. "The king's daughter is all glorious within : her 
clothing is of wrought gold. She shall be brought unto the king in rai- 
ment of needlework [verses 13, 14] where the character of true celestial 
doctrine is declared to be the gold of love, wrought into system,— lovo 
wrought out. Thii king's daughter, all such as, animated by pure aflTec- 
tions for truth derived IVora the King of kings, are desirous of graces of 
the heart and mind, wliicli are worth more tiian the wealth of kingdoms. 
Tliey become gloriotis within, and all their views of d!)ctrine are lovo as 
It were speaking, and declaring its true. nature. With tliom, G id ici 
li>ve, lieaven islove, loveis thufulflUing of the law. lovo keeps the com- 
mandments, tlie Word truly understood, is the revelation of love. Tlh'ir 
whole doctrine, like the street of the holy city, is of pure gold, formed by 
the spiritual embroiiery of an intellect which spiritually discerns the har- 
monious relations of eve-lasting things. The Word supplies the raw mate- 
rial, line upon line, and precept upon precept. Tue rational powers 
weavetheminto a beautiful system, and prepare them to be worn. And 
■wlienthe judgment, under the impulse or a humble determination to live 
lor heaven, adapts these doctrines to its own especial states and roijuiro- 
monts, the Christian is ciiuipped ir. the garments of salvation. " Uo is 
glorious within, and his clothing is of wrought gold." 

And here, wo would strongly gnard against one of the most dangerous 
delusions which has crept into nominal Christianity; theidf;a that we are 
saved by the infinite purity of CJhri.st'8 righieousness bei'ig imparted to 
us, and not by actual, practical righteousness. It is tiiie, our righteous- 
ness is derived from the Lord, " their nghteousneys is of rao, saith the 
Lord." — Isa. liv. 17. But no righteousness will bo imputed to us, wliich 
has not been imparted to us. His spirit will bo imputed to us, so far as we 
receive it, but no farther. God i^ a God of truth, and never imputes to 
any one what he does not nosseps. " He that doeth righteousness, is 
righteous."— 1 ,Tohn iii. 7. Tlie m^!rit of divine righteousness in salvation, 
is as incommunicable as the merit of creation. The robe of tlie Saviour's 
perfections, has a name on it, which no man knows but He Himself. (Kev. 
xix. 16). And, yet, numbers neglect to acquire the white robe, or the 
wrought gold, of imparted truth and lovo, under the vain Idea that the 
personal pui lections of our Lord will bo imputed to them. Our food is 
iVom Him', but if instead of eating tha* Thich Ho now provides, we wore 
to attempt to live by imputing that which he ate m the days of His fl'.'sh, 
w^ should die of starvation. S ~, if instead of receivin.", and applyinn; to 
ourselves the living streams of 111" righteousness by eaniest prayer und 
earnest practice, we expect I lis merits to be imputed to us. as righteous- 
D'■»^, 80 that although wc r,re really wicked, we .^hall bo accounted goo.l! 
al hough really polluted, wo Fhall be accounted clean ; we shall bo naked 
and helpless, in tho day vhon he makes up hij 'ewels. No doubt, the 
Lord lived on earth for ur sakos, suffered for our sakes, died foi our sakea, 
rose again foi ouraakc , mac'. Uis Uuinanity righteousness rabodied, 
for our sakeB. " For their sakes, I sanctity myself," he sai , ' that they 
raav be eanctillGd by the truth."— John xvii. 19. All wa'i done for us t , 
enable us lo bj sancliti'd, but not to be pr*: down to our account When 
our account in made Uj; wo siiall find the rue to be, " Thoy that4iPT0 done 
good Khali come forth lo the resurrection o'"lile, atid they that have dc n 
cvi! to tijp res'irrectirin ql'ccinJ nnn.itioi, " iJolai v 29. lie convs quickly 
to jrivH (o ev(.Ty man as his </•"/•/; shull bo (lii'v. xxii. l:^). Rlossed «liail 
we be 'f AV(! watch and k"ep jar gavmoniji, ni:ide white by lils truth, und 
thuj t'r^> ready to Jbiiow our Divine Letid t in the ri^ihns olpeaoe, a'ior- 
inir, ill hunibie love, tbo*e infliuto perlooiitv.js which niuke tu.< fiiCi- to 
eniuf like i.osun, and Hit- r.jlment whito a-i llu- light [iLttt. xvii. '2J. Wo 
are, then, to speak to the Isra<^>]ite8, who are typified by tiioso ol our text 
the spiriiQal laraelitoa, who are as our Lord aald, Iitraolitos indeed , aud 



m would sho 

— sucli rti'co- 
[inieratt' lilc ; 
Old ; in fact, 
and thou^lit" 
sband." 
truR lioavonly 
18 within : hur 
3 king in lai- 
truo celestial 
system,— lovo 
by pure aflt'C- 
i of graces of 

I of kingdoms. 
are lovo as 
cliem, G )d is 
?cp8 the coni- 
)flove. Th.'ir 
i-ld, I'ormcd by 
^corns the har- 
i the raw mate- 
.tional powers 
le worn. And 
lination to livo 
s aud rotiuiro- 
tior.. " llo is 

nost dangerous 
i(;a that we are 
Kig imparted to 

ovir righteouH- 
f rae, eaitii the 
;ed to us, which 
> us, so far as wo 
jver imputes to 
ighteousnc?:^, i3 
ess in salvation, 
of the Saviour's 

Himself. (Ucv. 
itfi robe, or tho 
n idea that tho 
m. Our food is 
■ovides, we wore 
aye of His tl'-'sh, 
andapplyiii^T to 
nest prayer and 
us. as righteous- 
accounted g<»o .1 ! 
e Bhali bo naked 
No doubt, the 
ledfoi oursakes, 
suess rabndied, 
Hal ', • that they 

II done for us t . 
iccount When 
y that 41? ve done 
V tliat haveilf '1 
le conv'Siimckiy 
li). Rl''ssetl shall 
hy liiri truili. n'ld 
n-i ol'peact, -.vi'T- 
make hii< fuce to 
...itt.xvii.'i]. Wo 
thoso ol our text 
olitos iudoed, aud 



APPENDIX TO THE AlTIZANS' GUIDE. 



43 



{' 



eay first that they clothe themselves with genuine doctrines of divine 
truth, with the garments of salvation, and that thoy especially make 
tliein Iringfis in the borders of their gainients. After wo have nieditatod 
ui)on the doctrines of religion, aud seen their fitness to our own sUtes of 
mind and heart, tlius clotiied ourselves ia thorn ; the next part of our duty 
is to bring them into life. This is a most important point. Many there are, 
who put on religion as a dress for the head, and even also for the breast, 
but do not bring it down to the foet. iJut we are to make a border for 
our garments, and the border must be a fringe. Tho distinctive feature 
of a fringe is, that tho material of which it is composed is divided into 
iiinall portions, llrmly united at tho upper part, but hauging with separate 
forms of beauiy at tho lower. The idea suggested by this is, thatreligion 
must be employed in all tho small affairs of daily lite, as well as on great 
occasions, tho lowe.st part <if our .'•piritua' dress must bo a t'inge. Our 
Lord declared the t^aiue importaiit truth wiion he said, ' llo that is faith- 
ful iu that which is leasf,, is iaitUfiil also in much : and ho that is uujust in 
111" least, is unjust mNo iii much. '—Luke xvi , 10. 

This practical admonition is of the very highest consequence. One of 
IIh; nioit serious errors of life is that our religion is only to be brought out 
on grand occafions, as some thiuk, or on Sundays, as others practically 
siiew, they 8uppo.>ie. The only way iu which we make tho truths of reli- 
gion really ours, is to infuse their spirit and tone into all our little acta in 
our daily conduct. Life is made up of little things. One circumstance 
follows another, one act comes after another, each one small of itself, but 
the whole forming tho tissue of our entire outward c.xisteiico. Our whole 
journey 'S made step by step. There are uo great swoops made. By little and 
little, we drive out our evils; and by little aud little, wo introduce the 
jirinciples of wisdom and gviodness into tho whole texture otour conduct. 
I>y this, we must, not be misunderstood to meau, that we are not to subject 
the whole man to tho governuieut of heavenly laws, but only that we are 
to do it iu ich circumstance as it comes to hand, and to do it now, not 
* to wait f r great occasions. Let the border o.'your garment be a fringe. 

Many, very many, have no objection to tho head or the breast being 
in the church, but the feet liiey imagin may ' e quite otherwise engaged. 
IJut tho true disciple of our Saviour adopt;-, the language of tho I'salmist, 
" Our feet nhal' rrtand within thy gates, O Jerusalem."— rs. cxxii, 2. He 
is jiarticularly w tchful over hi: fret, or his daily practice. If iu his 
moments of weaknes ho wavers, h looks up tc the Saviour, tho Source of 
strength, and prays, '• Hold up aiy goings in thy paths, that my toot^teps 
slip not.' —Pa. xvii.6 Ofi^en will ho have to confess, "IJut as tor me, 
my '"ect were nlmost gone; my steps had well nigh BHpped."-=-Ps. Ixxiii. 
2. ket willhelind invisible hands have borne him up. for his ever- watch- 
ful »*\ather lias given his angels charpre concerning him, lest he dash his feet 
against a stone.— Ps. xci. 11, 12. And again, and again will he find 
occasion gratefully to exclaim, • O bless ourGod, ye people, atdmake tho 
voice of nis praiso to be heard : who holdeth our soul in life, aud 
ButToret! not ur feet to bo moved."— Ps. Ixvi. 8, 9. If, like Peter, at 
first, ho "aiiik; it quite beneath his Master's dignity to purify tho lower 
conc'?rn8 of life, and declares, Thoushalt never wa«h my feet, when he ia 
better Informed, and hears the Saviour's words, "If 1 wash thee not, thou 
hast no prrt in me," he, with an entire spirit of self-dovotlon, exclaims, 
" Lord, not my fee* only, btit also my hands and my head."— John 
xiii. 9. 

This religioTi of d.aily life is tho grand necocnity of tho world. Without 
that, ur ^.abbillh wors'ur ia but an organized hypocrisy. We should 
pruy, that we may be abln to practise not to substitute prayer for prac- 
tice. Heautifui as i^ the devout worship o*"the sauctuary, sweet as is the 
devotio .al piety, and .soul-exalti'g as ar: iiymns ol gratitude; they are 
only the un.iubstaiitinl beauty of a drea; ., unless they are brought down 
t'lRive direction, purity, and str iigth o Vtily life, l^et there then be a 
filng(> for the border* of your ganuouL , tlirougliout all your jjeneratious. 
If, i~ for want of this descent of rcli.arion into daily life, th.it its blesMiigs 
a:e often very taintly felt. The sweetness of the kiiowledgo of the Lord is 
only e.xperienoed when religion has become a living hourly series of 

virtues with us, It \e twid of the di^iuiplue who were goiug to Emmaua 



VI 






44 



APPENDIX TD THE ARTIZANS' GUIDE. 



though tho Lora waiKim wltn rtrcm, and tlipy felt the holy glow of his 
proseiicp whpii ho talked wi'h Ihciii on thcwas. In- (ii;l\ bociunc kiinv. to 
thtiiiiiu" the bii akiiij? ct tlio hn-au." It i- -" n it!i lii< iiisci))ifs in allngcs. 
Asloiig as the " bread of lili» " i« rt'ceivcd in a Illu^.-, and n'Uiaius thus, iiie 
blc-siiig of ooiijuiiction witli tin- iJiv.ne i>(iiig in uiilviiowii. Hv, i^ wiMi 
them, but as a ^tl•augol■. But k>l ilu'in break the bread ; li't thtm at liumo 
aud abroad, in tlu! counting-house aad oil chancre, li the woikhhop and 
at market, in their pleasup's and in all their family duties, break tho 
bread of heaven, and apply it to oveiy work and word, autl tlu'v will tti u 
know tho Lord. " Then hha,ll we know, if we follow on to know the Lord: 
Hid going forth i.^ prepared as the morning, and He 8liall uume uuiu ub m 
tlie rain; as tjio latter and former rain upon tho earth." 

O, then let our religion not bo liko a Sunday dress, put on only for 
parade on state occasions, and put off whi-n the occK«ion has passeil by, 
tjut like a eimido daily robe, whose usefulness is seen of all, and wlu/se 
fringe goes all aronnd the hem of our garment, so that it extends ovr 
tho whoh- circle of our outward life. 

\Ve aie, however, not only ounuianded to have a fringe to our garments, 
but to have upon the fringe a ribband of bine. And tliLs loaus us to cim.-i- 
di'r the oorrespondcuco ot colors. Natural colors wo know originate in 
natural light. Thov are the separation of the lu-auties wliieh are bnund up 
in the sunbeam, ami their relli'ction to tho human eye. There is a trinity 
of fundaitiental colore, led, blue, and yellow. Fr(nn the bleniiing ot 
thee in varied proportions all others are made. Blue aud yellow form 
green. 

Bearing in mind that the Lord is the Sun of the eternal world, and that 
essential truth ehine^ as a spiritual light from Him, the three e.^^sentiul 
colors into which light divides itself, will represent the three essential 
features of divine truth, in its a])i)lication to man. There are truths of 
love, which apply to our affections, truths of faith which apply to 
thoughts, and truths of life lied, tho colour of lire, is tho symbol of the 
truths of love, the tiro of the soul. Blue, tho colour of the azure depths 
of tho sky, is symbolic of the deep things of the spirit of Uod, on which 
faith delights to gaze. Yellow, is tho liue of truth which applies to out- 
ward life, and in combination with blue it makes green, which corresponds 
to truth in the letter of tho Word, made simple to the common eye of 
minkiud. 

Blue gives a sense of clearness and depth, in which it surpasses all 
i>ther hues. When we gaze into the blue deptlis of the sky, far above tlio 
changes of tho clouds, their tranquil grandeur, urohing in i)eaceful majesty 
far over the turmoils of tho world, strikingly images those deptlis of 
heaveoljr wisdom from which the good mau draws strength and peace. 

"Though round his breast the rolling clouds are spread, 
Eternal sunshines settles on lus head." 

Blue, then, is the colour which represents the spirit of the Holy Word, 
the depths of heavenly wisdom. 

ibero is, however, cold blue, as it has more of white in it, and warm 
blue, as it derives a certain hue from red. Tiiere lias also been some diffi- 
culty in determining tho exact shade meant by Techeieth, the Hebrew 
name for this colour, liut IV nn a full consideration of tho subject wo are 
Batisfied it was tho name for blues tinged with red, from violet to purple. 
And this very strikingly brings out the divine lesson by correspondence. 
While the Dluo indicates that in our demeanour or in lilb we should be 
correct, in harmony witli tho .spirit of truth, the red line indicates that all 
our truth ou^jht to bo softened, und warmed by love. " Spiak the truth 
in love," said the apostle, and to remind them of this duty, God cmn- 
manded the ribband Of warm blue to bo worn upon the fringe of their 
garments, by the sons of Israel. 

Truth without love Is cold, hard, and unpitying, and therefore repulsive. 
Truth with anger is scalding hot, and like medicine, impossible to bo 
taken, useless or injurious: but truth coming from a loving heart, lirm, but 
gentle, and swoet like the warm sunbeam, is welcome to all. 

The loving blue of th« eye, which ruvoals ttie sweet impulses of a soft 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS* GUIDE. 



45 



' glow of hl8 

nc ktinv. lo 
's in iiiliigcH. 
.ins llius, ilie 
lit; i.^ \vi;li 
litTiiathoiiiu 
iiikshop iiiui 
i, break ilio 
icy will tl'C'ii 
)vv the Lord; 
iiti unlu ub ud 

on only for 
as passt'il liy, 
1, and whose 
extouds ov'T 

niirpnrmonts, 
is us to c(>n>l. 
/ oiisiiiate in 
are bo u ml up 
■n? U a trinity 
■. blcniiint/f (it 
I yellow form 

orld, and that 
hree t'ssi'iitial 
hit'o essential 
? are truths of 
lich apiily to 
symbol c"f tlio 
e azure depths 
iod, on which 
uiplies to ouf- 
;h correspoiuls 
jinmou eye of 

surpasFos all 
f far abovo tlio 
•aceful iniijtsty 
loso depths of 
and peace. 

cad, 



le Holy Word, 

a it, and warm 
jecn sonio ditfi- 
h, the Hebrew 
subject we are 
iok't to pur|)le. 
tirespondence. 
•\vc should be 
idicates that all 
>p. ak t!ie truth 
luty, God coin- 
> friugo of their 

■efore repulsive. 

ipossible to bo 

heart, lirm, but 

11. 

}ul8ea of a soft 



ftndgontle heart, ia like the color of the Hbband, before us; it «peakH of 

till' purity and ilio warmth of the spirit within. Let thi re, tljen, be upon 
;i!! V'jiir dem"aii(i.ir this color ot heavenly love. 

.i( I'll in this view wo have now arrived' at, thi< coinniandmont increases 
in practical inijHirtancc! ihe more we onteniulate it. IVrhaps the u'-glect 

;'it is the cause of more tailures in thi! delivery of well-meant advic •, 
(liiin any other circunistrvnce. We proceed t.) correct with tho roU{,'h, 
stern hand of truth alone, ami wo enciunter resistance. We are sure wo 
are right, and wo jjroceed to reproach a id invective. Quarrels ensue, 
instead of amendment. We brood over our failure, and woufter at the 
piTVorsity of mankind, not reflecting that wo have not put ou the fringe 
upou our garmcut, the ribband of heavenly blue. 

" O bi} kind to each other. 
The night's c muiig on. 
When friend and when l)rother, 
I'erhai.ce may be gone." 

Nothing can be farther from the spi it of heaven, than a stern, har.<4h, 
VI ulictive utterance of truth. We siiould ever remember that we can 
u selves only be asisted by one who manifests to us a spirit ot kindness 
ill his counsel, i'o an a.-siilant we close u^). We caimoc bear our faults 
I I be exposed by one who does it in a s])irit of exultation and insolence. 
lUitwe love the friendly hand which has a hrother'stouch. We delight to 
see the dress not starched with prudery, but having upou all its fringe the 
ribband of heaven's own blue 

With this bless 'd tone, how often would homes be happy which a-e 
frequently torn with dissension. A brother will be gentle from courtesy 
tO others, but is su.Uy or sharj) to his owu. A sister, from politen(>ss, 
. iilLe briliiaiit ;ind fascinating to visitors, but often f;dls to wear the blue 
libbanil to th >so of her own liic-ide. Oh, if the Christian ministry has 
one object which xunro than another sliouli be it.s constant aim, it sliould 
be to conliihute to ilie li.aiiiiiiiess of home, th;it sacred centre of all that is 
elevating, strengthening, purifying, and ennobling among men. And 
nothing will be a truer source of all these blessings than to speak to 
brothers and sisters, ami .say, in all your intercourse witii each other, let 
the spirit of religion be visible. In each sinall act of daily iutercouriie 
with each other, let there be a fringe from your religion within, and on iho 
fringe let the truth of intelliifence be blended with the kindness of reid 
love. You were created to learn to be fellow angels in the h use. You 
were placi d to walk together on your path to heaven, to give an assisting 
hand when a weak one stumbies, to exhort the slothlul, to cheer tin- 
weary, to warn against danger's path and S.mgerous foi's, to encouiago 
th<> struggling, to rejoice together when you gain a glorious prospect, to 
animate each other to your daily progress, and often to taste by anticipa- 
tion the triumph you will have when all the dangers of life are gono by, 
and heaven is forever your home. Uemember the charge of Joseph to his 
brethren, " See that ye fall not out by the way." In your acts and yo r 
words, let there be seen upon all your fringe, the ribband .f heaveuiy 
blue. 

We come, now, to a still dearer conne'tion, which would oflon bo mor<» 
bl(«st if the spirit of this divine comm ^nd were more faithfully carried out. 

In that most saored of all humau ties, the marriage union, it is of ti.e 
highest irapctance that the blue ribband should appear iu all tlie 
demeanor of h;vsband and wife. Yet, sometimes the domestic hearth is 
less tender and p.appy than it might bo, for want of the gentle ameni'ies 
of truth spoken in lOve. When that mysterious sympathy which attracts 
congenial souls to each other, flrst induces ardent thought in the young 
lovers, the earnestness of aflection presents to both oiilv what is amiable 
and agreeable. Each finds » magnifier of the cxcelleno. s of tho other, and 
ill) imi)erfection can be seen. And, when the hopes of both are crowned 
hv possesion, a long vist i of happiness is beheld, throng.d With an endless 
sru;c(>ssion of joys and ' lessin.is Yet both parties have failings. The per- 
leciioii fane.- lia^ painted, will, in many respects, be found to bo over- 
drawn. Tlio bloom of outward beauty will wear off. rossession will 



M 



•a'Wr^-!^'iW^ ■^y.'i 



46 



APPENDIX TO THK ARTIZAN8 OUIDK. 



h! 



dt'prlve many attraoHona of the exaggerated raluo for which thoy woru 
cliu'rty indflhtPfl to posHion. lioth are probably young, botli impurtect, 
biUh at*' liurnan. iluuce, tliefi como discovorlt'u of lauTts and i-liortcoia- 
iii,^w which belong to us ail, but which have been beloio un!:cen. And 
now id tho o.'jjortuaitv for the munifosiation oi real lovo, in having 
pationco with fho loTi«d one. If they have lored wisely, the virtueHof 
each other, and that tuutual adaptation uf feeling, tatste, and character 
which iiart drawn their houIm to desire a nuion impo.^sible with auy one 
eli^e, liave bttMi tho chief attractionu ; or,d for thi'lr Kakes, t| py ciinwvll 
atl'ord to bear with sumo defect ii. Inntead of being aatuiii^iht'd to iiud that 
the mere mortals we have married have some ol the failings of our fallou 
race, we should take kindly the opportunities of showing, that ours has 
not been the selfish pas>ion which desires only its own gratilication, but 
-ntlier tho holy alT'Ction that, forgetful of self, seeks chieny the happiness 
of those we love. To aa.sist, and be assisted,to form angelic characters in 
each other, these are the chief objects for which marriage has been 
instituted. And to accompli.?h these ends, wo must have a faithful, but 
a friendly eye for tho imperfections of each other. We should scarcely 
notice the unplwasunt effect of faults in ndation to our pereoual gratilica- 
tion, but be (jniektighted to perceive the injury they inflict upon thedoer. 
" Wlio is so blind iis ho tJiat is perfect," says the prophet, in reference 
to that Divine Mercy which sees not our sins so far as they are directed 
against llim, and condemns tliem, only as they are foautaius of misery to 
ourselves. 

Our Lord washed His disciple^' feet, and said, " As I have washed your 
feet, so um.st ye vtash one another's feet." And if to assist each other, to 
remove imperfections from our conduct, which is spiritually washing one 
another's leet, is a duty we owe to our oidinary Christian friends, how 
much more is it a duty to assist in removing the spots which soil tUu 
characters ot those we have undertnki>n to love and to cherish. Yet what 
tender care this duty needs. The true wife, or husband, cannot bear to 
think that tho deeply-prized love of the other is being lost. Noticiu;^a 
fault rudely, betrays tho appearance of dislike, and wounds deejily. 
Sometimes, self-love will creep in between married partners, and tiiu 
strugel-i for power will take the appearance of opposition to faults. Tlieu 
lacerated feelings are poured forth in bitter expressions. Then, quarrels 
arise, long animosities are inuugurat«>d, which take trom home its sweul- 
ness, banish all those tender endearmenvs, those happy conddeuces, those 
he:irt-ielt reliances on each otlier, those fireside pleasures which consti- 
tute earth's neare. t likeness to heaven. Then oppositions are engeudcrcd, 
recriminations are heard, hateful every wliere, out iuiolerable from thoso 
wo love. Distrusts, fears, and anxieties intrude, where only conlldt'nco 
should reign, :>nd home bcObmes the saddest abode of misety. All tliis 
has happened, will happen, it we are not careful, in our married life 
especi illv, to .-ipeaic the truth in love. Tiierc, above all, the blue ribband 
should be s«en upon our garments. Sweetness in our goodiiosa and 
tenderness in our truth, should be the incessant law of man led partners to 
each other. A fearfuluess of injuring tho feelings of the other : A friend- 
ly, kindly touch, when any mental sore requires attention : A determina- 
tion to do nothing, which does not manifest a constant affection : A 
deterence to each other's wishes : A manifest active eifort to promote tho 
othi-r's happiness ; Thesso are the dispo-*itions which can alono preserve 
and complete that choicest of all Divine Blessings — genuine conjugal lovo. 
When misunderstanding has been sustained, and bruised affections 
manifest how deeply they are hurt,;theirpaiu should not bo treated li.;ii(Iy. 
Ho would be thought Cruel who trimpled on tho intlamed foot of auutlior, 
yet tho anguishea heart is sometimes tortured with stinging words of 
bitt rest taunt And reproach, under the delusion that it is necessary to 
blame where fa-ult has been committed. The first necessity is to bring 
ourselves into a state ofreal kindness and affection ; then ascertain if tha 
supposed fault boas real as it appeared. If so, to ask for Him who views 
us all from kindness, lor wi.-doin, iir-it pure, tiion peaceabio, to speak tho 
trulii ill lovo. While our ribband i.s blue, to take caro th.at it is soft and 
warm. How desirable tliis is in our ii'tircoursu with others ! In our 
intercourse with those who are to form with us the happiness of heart uud 
homo, it is indispeuaable. 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' OUIDE. 



47 



Ich thoy wiTo 
otli iiapurloct, 
and thoi'tcuiu- 
uniceu. Ami 
)vo, in having 
the virtutH ot 
and character 
with auy one 
, tl'py Clin wvU 
t'd to Hud that 
la ol'our falk'U 
, that uurti ha^ 
atitication, but 
f thp happinens 
ic characters in 
iage has boeu 
a faithful, but 
hould scarcely 
■8uual gratillca- 
upun the doer. 
)t, in referenco 
ey are directed 
ius of mi&ery to 

ire washed your 
t each other, to 
lly washing one 
an friends, bow 
which soil the 
rish. Yet what 
, cannot bear to 
est. Noticin;^a 
wounds deeply. 
rtners, and tlio 
to faults. Then 

Then, quarrels 

home its sweet- 
intidtmcea, tliose 
B8 which consti- 
are engendered, 
rable from those 

only conlldenco 
nisei y. All tliii 
our married life 
the blue ribband 
r gooducs.s and 
in led partners to 
other : A friend- 
n : A determina- 
lUit affection : A 
rt to promote tho 
a alono preserve 
ne conjugal love, 
iruised affections 
30 treated li.;hlly. 
i foot of auotiier, 
itinging words of 
it is necessary to 
cssity is to bring 
n a.^certaiu if tba 
r Hioi who views 
able, to speak tho 

hat it is soft and 
I others ! in our 
iness of heart and 



And yot It Is not at til uncommon f)r anwlne married partners so flif to 
noKlect this divina commandment as to be all Hmilo» to others, and to 
reserve their coldness for those whom tliey sh )uld most fondly cherish, 
Tbo husband open, siiiilinp, and sedulously polite t:) any other lady, will 
be res«'rv«d, negligent, uiicjurteous, and unkind to the heart which should 
bo to liiin above all itnco. The wife, all-radiant with smiles to others, 
fttteutivo to their minutest wishes or comforts, will not tDublo herself to 
retain or regain the affections of that one, on whom nil her real happinosb 
d pends. The gentle, conciliating word, for which her husband's heart, 
bouoaih a Arm exterior, is longing, she will not speak. The one she won 
by gentleness, and grace, and all the feminine virtues.she will not preserve 
bv grovfing in those virtues, but rudely repels. And the heart whose 
fui itest throb uhe once valued beyond all eartnly riches, she rudely throwd 
away. 

O married partners, tenants of the same home, who should be all in all 
to each ether, for time and for eternity, never neglect in your .sentiments, 
your spirit, your acts, and your words to each other, to let there bo visiblo 
on all the manifestations of character with which your life's dre.ss it) 
fringed, tho trutn and the Iovm of celestial blue. O wife, matron, mother, 
remember your strength is in tenderness. Never shock the feelings of 
your husband by harsh, bitter, unwomanly exasperations. Your iHiculiar 
province is at home ; let it be ever preserved sacred to domestic peace, by 
a meek and quiet spirit. So you will be your husband's dearest trust, ana 
chief consoler ; your children's constant refuge ; and when you have 
I>ussed b'^yond th.} shades of time, the star of fond remorabranoo that 
shines high ab.>ve the cares of earth, and lures them still to heaven. 

O husband, O father, on whom tho wife's fond heart desires to lean, let 
no harsh e.\pres-^ion drive her thence. A yearning of unspeakable tender- 
ncs.i keetis you within her presence, mentally, wherever you may be from 
morn to dewy eve. And, when you return, she expects tho friendly 
greeting ; let her not bedisajjpointed. Be assured her love would encircle 
you, if y. H were driven from tho common ranks of men ; her heart would 
Do the truest pillow for your aching head. Her grace, her happiness, is 
tho '.vorthiest ornament for you now. Your strength is cold, repulsive, 
and forbidding, until it is combined and chastened uy the gentleness and 
sweetness of your faithful, lovin;,' wife. Let her be cheered, then, to si<} 
upon ihe fringe of your garments, the clearness and the warmth of true 
celestial blue. 

Jt is equally important that the firmness and clearness of truth, blended 
with th , warmth and gentleness of love, should be visible in uU our inter- 
course with our children. Firmness, without gentleness andclicerfulness 
is painful and repulsive to children, and they shun the circle of its influ- 
ence as much as uossibie. Softness, without firmness, str- ngtheni their 
hankerings lor.^elnsh indulgences, and increases those disorderly demands 
which at length must be restrained with rigor, a hundred-fold more pain- 
ful, or they must sink in ruin. Children ook for just direction, and their 
sense of Justice leads them readily to acquiesce in what is right when it 
comes from lips they love. Only ' 't the true blue ribband be seen by your 
children alwavs, and they will follow where you lead, and your counsel 
W;ll be laws they will revere in your absence as well as in your presence ; 
and when the music ot jrour loved voice will be heard by them no more, 
its recollections within will be prized as the tones and tho wisdom of those 
dearest and best-beloved ones who piloted them ^afely in tne early walks 
of life, and still have only gone before them, and are waiting to welcome 
them on tho purer plains ofneaveu. 

This attention to the very externals of tho Christian life is fVaught with 
blessing every way. I. is only thus, in fact, we can obtain strength to bo 
healed of our spiritual diseases, .tnd only thus we can exhibit the worth of 
our principles lo others. When the poor woman who had 8j)ent her all 
upon helpless physicians f r twelve years came to Jesus, she said within 
herself: If I touch but the horn f Kir garment, I shall be made whole, 
and as soon as sh-'uid so, virtu ^ weiit ut, and shi» was healed. 

In the hem of the vesture of Divine Truth, or in other words, in tho 
literal sense of the Word of God, the divine virtue is over present for tho 
m.ek and lowly, and when it is touched by trusting love, that virtue will 
go out. 



48 



Al'l'KNDIX TO THS ARTIZANS GUIDE. 



Tlu' iTi>;ihot ZccJiaiJuh, oponkinff of tlio nlormns church of tholattpr 
il-i\>, I 111" iMwrnli wliii'h i< now iinrnlilinm' itself u'r.<)ii;;st \ih, tlii> New 
Ji'i'iisiilfiii, (li'Cliin'>, " Ihii-* miiili tin,- Lord ot huftls : hi thc-u (luys it sliiill 
kjoiiH- t'> pii^ri, tluit tea iiicii Hliall take hold out ot all laii^uu^cH of all 
iia'i'iii . cvt'ii xtwill ttiku hold ol tlio nkirt ol liim that U a Jt-w, saying 
" \Vt> will ;;o with you ; for we havi; heard that (iod is with you."— viii. 
25. Ir is rtlixio" in lifftliat is observed by, and U attractive to, good ini'u. 
When it not only cnlixhton.s tlio head and ruloa tho licart, but coino* 
dowu ti) tlic skirts ofthe garment, inFusinx juslici', kindiie-s, and courtesy 
into every act and every word, tlien it Inis an eloquence whicli will inspire 
many a well-disposed lioart to aay : " We will m^ with you, for we havo 
heard that God ia with you. Let your good works, and your good words 
HO shine before meu, that they may glorify your Father which ia in 
heaven." 

While you pay duo and supreme attention to tho interior principles of 
love and faltii, never forget the fringe, f^et your religion come out. Ho 
loving and truthful in nttle things. Let your daily duties, and daily 
expressions unbosom in them the spirit of hoaviMi in their entiro rouuJ, 
atd thus upon tho fringe lot there bo seen tub kibb/VND of rlub. 

EXl'EUIENCE OF A SUN UEPUIITEU IN NEW YORK. 
Slightly altcredfrom N, Y. Sun. 

A Sun reporter being desirous of flnding out something dcQnite regard- 
ing the NewCliurch doctrines, proceeded to No. 20, ('oiiper Institute, New 
York, and iuiiuiring who was the iiead man of tho denomination, a geutlo- 
man [Mr. Thomas Hitchcock] answered: — 

Thore is no luad man in our denomination; that is to say, there is no 
one whoso le:id we follow without ([uestiMi. We all think for (mrs(!lves, 
although, of course some aro more familiar with tho writings of siwodea- 
borg than others. 

Jli'pnrfer. Do you understand the doctrines ? 

Mr. II, I d), 1 liave studied tliem about twenty-one years. 

Jli porter. Well, what arcyouSwedonborgians driving at? 

Mr. 11. Wo think we have got the true science of religious truth, and 
want to teach it to tho world. 

Reporter. Science of religious truth I Do you mean to say there is any 
ecience in religious truth? 

Mr. II. We mean to say, and we do say, that religious truth is as capable 
of scientific arrangement and explanation as any other truth, and that wo 
are able to give this scientilic explanation. The New Cuuiicn tlieology 
boars thosame relation to all other tlieologics that tlieCopornican system of 
astnmomy bears to tho i'tolemaic, the Arabic, the Hindoo, and tlie 
Chinese systems of astronomy. Those systems of astronomy woro 
based on the mistaken appearance of things, whereas Copernicus and 
his followers got at the realities. Just so other systems of theology aro 
based on appearances^ while tho Nkw Cuauoii system is based oathe real 
truth. 

Iti'porter. What do you mean by " appearances"? 

Mr. H. I mean the way that things appear to tho senses. For example, 
the sun appears to rise and set, ana to go daily round tho earth. The sky 
appfars to como down to tho e.irth ail around, forming what wo call tho 
horizon. Tho earth appears to be stationary in tho centre of our univer o. 
The sun appean to bo a small orb, not a millionth part as largo as the 
e irth ; the planets seem no bigger than marbles, and tho fixed stars appear 
to be mere twinkling points. All these appearanctis aro controverted 
by science, and the senses have to yield to reason. It is tho same in 
8pintu:il and religious matters, which abound with fuUaciousand ini-ilead 
ing ap|»oarancos, and those appearances have to bo corrected, and in the 
Nicw CiiuKCK system of theology are corr cted byspiritual scienco. 

11 porter. That all sounds very well, in a general way; but let us get at 
something specidc. 'Vliat do you say for example to liie doctrine of h<iA 
depravity? 1 useil to know a pious old lady, when I was a boy, who was 

strong ou that doctrine, and who always closed every urgumcut on tho 



APPENDIX TO THE AKTlZANb' GUIDE. 



49 



f tho latter 
i, till' Nl'W 
l;»ys il>hiill 
iu"i;t'H of ull 
Jow, -(ayin)? 
you."— viii. 
, f^ooil mi'ii. 
, but CDinci 
Hid courtesy 
I will inspire 
for we havo 
goofl words 
tvhich is in 

principles of 
mo out. Ho 
s, and dailv 
3iitiro round, 

ILUK. 

OUK. 



'finite regard- 
uHtitutc, New 
lion, a j»('uU(V 

ly, there is no 
for oursolvcs, 
ga of SwedtMi- 



UU8 truth, and 

,y there ii any 

h is as capable 
I, and that wo 
jticn theology 
iiican system of 
idoo, and tlio 
|ronomy were 

Fernicus and 
theology are 
;ed ou the real 



For example, 
larth. The sky 
Ihat wo call tho 
If our universe. 
las largo as the 
Ted i?tar.s appear 
\o coutrovorttHl 
18 tho same in 
iusand nuilcad 
|t«d. and in the 
ll scicuco. 
lut lot us get at 
loctrino of t"t-'l 
k boy, who was 
[gumcut ou tho 



Bubjoct by Haying, " Well, when you take away my total depravity, you 
taki' away all my roligion," Wliat do you say to tliat* 

Mr. II. Our doctrine as to that matter is, that all liuiiian beings are born 
with »iinful inclinations, (and of themselves are nothing but evil), but need 
not commit sin unless they choose to do so, and are uot accounted guilty of 
m\ unless thev actually commit it. 

Itv porter. Then yon hold that all children that die before they reach the 
ago of moral accountability go to buavea, uo k ;tter liow wicked or 
Lt-athonish their parents may he. 

/)//•. //. Wo du luust (niiphutioally ; it is a mouatrous error to suppose 
otherwise. 

lU'jxirter. But if no infants whatever go to hell, what becomes of tho 
doctrine of infant damnation? 

Mr. II. J'm sure I can't say, unless it goes where it would send the 
infantas, as it c«'rtainly shoidd. 

lii-pnrter. lint if the doctrine of total depravity is not true, what need 
Lave we of a Saviour? 

Mr. II. To save us from our sinful inclinations, and from actual siu 
committed by every one personally. 
Uipiirttr. liow did He, or how does He do that? \ 

Mr. II. It is not easy to tell oH-hand how He does it. In order to 
vxplain it, it is necessary in the first instance to explain our views of tliu 
iiitimat>? connection between this world and the spiritual world, includ- 
ing both Heaven and Hell. 
lii'porter. That is just what I want to get at, please go on ? I 

Mr. II. The spiritual world is uot remote from this world, on some 
unknown planet, as is commonly supposed. It is right here, close to this 
world, and within it. When a good man lives a good life, he draws angel4 
and good spirits, who inliabit tlie spiritual world, near him; if ho lives au 
evil hie, he draws evil spirits and nevils around liim. 

h'i'/iortcr. What is the difl'erunce between a good si)irit and an angol and 
uncvil spirit and a devil? 

Mr. II. A good spirit is a good human being wlio has passed from thia 
worhl, but who has not yet becc me an angel. An angel is a good human 
being who has been perfected i'l tlie spiritual world up to the status of 
angelhood, and btHMi tlu^eby elevated into heaven. An evil spirit is a 
wicki'd human being who has passed from this world, but has uot yet 
become a devil. A devil Is a wicked h'iraan being, who having passed : 
into the world of spirits, has blossomed iuto full blown devilhood, and' 
gone tohis home in hell. I 

Ji'ejxirter. You talk about the W(>rli> of Spiuits, as though it were a 
a ])laceto which goo<l and bad spirits go in common, proviousto lueir being 
bent to heaven or liell. i 

.1/;'. //, Yes, the world of spirits is an intermediate state between heaven 
and hell. It is where all go immediately after deatli*, before we are finally 
arranged and disposed of according to our real characters. Now to coma 
back to tlie spirits which a man draws about him in this world by his life, 
ami on which I must prcdicaU^ my explanation of the work ot salvation 
which the Saviour did lor us; liy the instrumentality of good spirits and 
angels, tlie Loud is always trying to save us from the machinations of 
evil spirits and devils. But when the human race is unspeak- 
ably wicked, as it was at tlio time of the Lord's appearance on earth, 
special efforts to this end are necessary. At the time of our Saviour's 
advent, the evil spirits and devils had got such a liold upon men as to taKe 
possession not only of their minds and hearts, but of their bodies also, as 
we read in tlie Uospols, and the instrumentality of angels and good spirits 
was not sufficient to resist them. The Louu, thereforecame Himself aowa 
to the plane of human life, and on that plane fought with his own Omnipo- 
tence against hell, audits allies, drove them back, and thus saved man from 
destruction. 
Jliporfer. Do you mean that it was (Jou Himself who did this? 
Mr. II. Yes, 1 do. There is but ono (ioi). Tlie Son of God is the name 
given to His inanit'estation of Himsell here on earth, and the Holy S^iirit 

is tho holy iutluenc" that proceeds from Him. ^ 

\ Ucportcr. What becomes of the vicarious atoccrocht then? 



50 



AlTi.Mi>lX TO Tllli AilTlZA.Nto GUIDE, 



Mr. II. Tlio vicarious ivtouement, as oxpouudt'd by old lUsliioncd tlii-o- 
loKiaus, is a misconception of tlio truth, just as tin; rtok'niaic systeiii of 
astronomy was a misconception of astronomical facts. It rests upun tlio 
assumption that Gou was an/{ry with His creatures and needed to he 
pacified, and would not ho reconciled to tho ollenders until some one liad 
been adequately ^unishod for their olFeuces. (Jou's allej^od anger is only 
an appearance iuducec'. by our guilty conscience. The truth is tluit God 
loves tho Hinner just as much a^ He lovers the saint, and always seeks the 
Hiuner's good, for " His tender mercies are over ull His works," ext(uiilinf; 
even to the lowest hell. The infinite love of our Heavenly Father i.i such 
that Ho "makes His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and semk^th 
xain on the just and on tho unjust" and " is kind lo the untliankful and ti.* 
the evil." To remove the appearance of anger, it is only necessary lor uh 
to repent of our sins and turn to the Loiiu; just as, to come from ui lit to 
day, It is necessary for the earth to turn, and not for the sun to 'hango 
its position. The sun shines on just the same all the time, whether it bo 
hidden by clouds or shut out from us by the earth's turning away iPoiu it; 
and so, too, does the Lord's love shine on just the same all tiie time, nu 
matter how it may be obscured by the clouas of evil, or shut out from our 
hearts by our turning uway from the JLoiiu. 80 you seo that rodeMii)tiou 
was a deliveranc" froni tho powers of hell, to enable us to turn again te 
God, and was not u deliverance from the wrath of Gou, as the jjhiase is 
usually understootl. Tho work which the Lohd did in redemption was 
iudeetl vicarious. Ho did in our jdace what we could not do for ourselves, 
Atonement again, means reconciliation — or, as it is sometimes spelled 
at-one-ment, and it is we wIk aro reconciled to Gou, and not Gou to us. 
3Ie docs not need any reconciling, but we «lo, because it is we who have 
gone astray. It is we who must be brought bai'k. To repeat our astrono- 
mical illustration, there is no chang<! in God any more than there is in the 
fun; it is the earth that ir.ust turn in order to receive the sun's heat and 
lif^ht. 8in is the great cloud that intercejits tho heat and light, or the 
divine Ipvd aud wisdom, procce ling from the .Sun of Kighteousness, " Your 
iuiquities have sei)araled between you and your Gou, and jour sins have 
hid His face from you." 

Jieiiorter. All t'-e jireachers say the same thing, that we must turn to 
tho Louu and seek salvation. Is your way of doing that diilereut from 
theirs !" 

Mr. H. I will not attempt to state their method, but will only tell you 
what ours is. Our way of turning to the IjoiiU is to repent of one's sins, 
pray to the Ldku for help, and above all to keep the commandments. 

Reporter. That seems to be ortliodox. I was brought up a ilethodist, 
and thai, is just what they preached. There do(^s not seem to be iiiucli 
practical diiierence, ailcr all, between you aud the rest of tha relij;ious 
world. 

Mr. H. I should bo very glad lo oelievi' that that was so. The use of 
all religion is to make good men and women on oarUi, and angels in hea- 
ven; so far as the Methodist, Catholic,, or Mahometan religion can do 
that, it has my hearty sympathy. Indeed Swedenborg teaches that in 
tho providence of tho Louu, ^^elievers of all forms of religion are saved 
if they only lead good lives, according to their religious precepts. 

Iteporti.r. What is the advantage of your form of religion then over 
others ? 

Mr H. The advantage consistR in being free from the errors aiul mia- 
oonceptioua which emijarrass and mislead believers in other systeias. 

.Reporter. What errors iMid misconceptions do you refer to? 

Mr. If. That of God's Leing angry with us and demanding victim to 
appease his wrath, Ibr exami)le, and the couse<|iienl misconception oil 10 
real uatui-e of tho atonement, tJio trinity of three distinct persons, flic 
doctri U! that lieaveii ami hoh aro arbitrarily given by the Louu, and ans 
not the result of otc^rna! laws, thrae and kindred errors following from 
them, puzzKj anit Conf\iac peoi)le's minds and i)rovent them Irom doing a.t 
well as tliey would if they knew tlui truth. 

jRepo .. ir tho L(iiu> Oot!8 not ^end a man to hell, who sends liiiu 
thope? 

Mr H. TT« go«B fhert^ of him»\vn ftccurd, aud because he likes it hetk-r 
tlxjui he likes iiuy wtUor place. , ; * 1 1 . . ■ • > '. - m . m > < » , '• • 

• i V . ■ \.i . » • - _ . 



APPENDIX TO TUE AKT1ZAN«' ULJliE. 



51 



ihionctl thf'O- 
aic systoiii of 
LJStS upuii tlio 
needed to \h\ 
iouw one liad 
an}?t'r is only 
;h i« tluU (jiid 
vnys st'i'ks tlie 
s,'' oxteudiii}? 
Leather i.i >'ucli 
I, undsuiuli^tli 
laukful and ti- 
Bcessary lor iih 
from iii ht to 
sun to "hango 
whether it hu 
; away »roni it ; 
il tli« tiiiw', no 
it outl'rumoiir 
lat rodeiiiiitiou 
J tiiru again to 
IS tlio phrase is 
Lfdcnipliou was 
lo for ourselves, 
iiotiuu'S sjielled 
not (jou to us. 
s wo who have 
[jatour astrono- 
u there is in the 
1 sun's ileal and 
ud li^ht, or the 
jousness, " lour 
tl juursiushavo 

ve must turn to 
t diilorent from 

ill only toll you 
nt of one's sins, 
mandnmnts. 
un a Methedist, 
■em to be much 
of th« relit;ious 

so. Tho use of 

id aiiRo'.s in liea- 

religioii cuu <lo 

leacht'S that lu 

if^ion are saved 

nreeejjts. 

ligiou then over 

errors and miij- 
lier systtuis. 

iding victim to 
;oncei»tion oi't lO 
met persons, tlie 
le l>oiii>, and aio 
•s foliowiiiK ''''>"» 
em from doiii},' an 

, who seiid^ liini 

he likes it »x't'<^r 



Reporter. If you will enable mo to comprehtMid that, and see that it in 
true, you will contribute much to my peace ol mind. 

Mr. If. How so? would it contribute to your peace of mind to sen that if 
you should ever become an Inmate of one of those loathsome hells tjfttie 
fourth or sixth ward of iNew V<»rk,— say a nef,'ro dance-house,— it would 
be iKcai'^e you had become so dej^raded that you would ^o there, and hva 
tiiero, and luako your liviu;; by living there, from puro love for such a 
liie •' 

Jieporter. The very idea makes my soul turn sick. 

Ah. II. Very well, then how can it contribute to your ))eace of mind 
to s"e and believe that if you fi,o to liell from the world of sprits it will be 
becuuseyou will iiave become so vile and loathsome in all the attributes of 
your Hpiritual nature that you will prefer the society of devils to that of 
aiij^els, and the wickedness aud corruption of hell to iLe purity and holi- 
lioss of heaven 1 

Jl>\)nrter. Uii niflection 1 do not think my peace of mind would bo much 
re-enforced by sucii a belief. liut 1 want you to explain how peoi)le go 
from the spiritual world to heaven or to hell. 

Mr, JI. IJefore I do that, tell mo what your idea of heaven is. 

Jti'porter. J leaven is the eternal home of the redeemed, it is the home of 
never ending rest, it is a place of eternal happiness. 

Mr. If. VV riat makes heaven a place of hapi)iness? 

Jk'porter. Why, (Joi) makes it so, of course. 

Mr. II. But how does he make it so? lu what does the happiness of 
heaven consist? 

Reporter. Why, in being Jiappy,! suppose. And the redtjemed an* made 
happy by contemplating the glories of their lledeemer; by singing einlless 
praises to Him, by wt-aring golden crowns and robes of sjxitles^ white, and 
roaming those sweet fields which as the old hymn says, beyond theswelliuy 
flood stand stressed in living green. 

Mr. II. Awxt is to say, the happiness of heaven, according to your views, 
consists in what might be termed a novc.'r ending religious holiday with 
nothing to do except to sing praises to Ciod, aud feast on what you call 
heavenly delights? 

liepurter. Yes, that is about it. 

Mr. II. How would you like that hero on earth? How would you like 
to stand in a temple or a garden for years, wearing a white robe, and 
with a gold crown on your liead, aud a gold harp in your hand, and with 
nothing to do but to .sing p-^alms? Or to put it briefly, how would you 
Jike to live in everlasting idlenes!* here if you could. , 

lie porter. It would bo intolei'able, of course. It would kill me or drive 
too crazy. 

Mr. II. Exactly, just as it has killed or driven mad many a man who, 
having amassed v/ealth, and foolishly imagined that il would be heaven ou 
earth to live in splendor and idlene.ss, has supplied himself with a luxurious 
home, and c^uit business to enjoy it. Does not overy such man find out his 
mistake ? 

Iie]>orter. Yes, I went up to Connecticut last y iar and interviewed ono 
of these very men. He had an earthly paradise, but the devil was in it 
in the shape of idleness, and the poor ricli old man told mo he was going 
io start an orphan asylum, and run it himself, just to have enough to do 
to ke-'p him from going crazy or committing suicide. 

"'r.II. You havo hit it exactly. Activity is a law of life. Idleness leads 
to stagnation, and Btagnation is death. Lvery man must be active. A 
good v.nn wants to be all the time doing something useful, an evil man 
wants to bealltiio timo doing something harmful. The old gentleman 
that you interviewed in Connecticut, being a good-liearted man, his 
Irrepressible craving for activity burst out in a charitable direction and ho 
founded an orphan asylum. If ho had been a bad hearted man his activity 
would have taken an evil direction. In the spiritual world every one hi a 
tlit'samepassh)ns and desires as here. Tiie good spirits seek to be useful aiiu 
the bad spirits seek to grali''y their evil dispositions. The sanii' laws 
govern the coalescence of the inhabitants of the world of spirits into 
Bocieties or comnmnities which govern the same thing liere. In this world 
tbu vicious suokout aud consort with the vicioua ftud tuogood consort WitU 



52 



APl'ENJDIX TO THE AllTIZANb' GUIDE. 



Pi 



It ^ 






the good. Tako the poplfi who arrive In this city, for example, on any givfn 
Saturday night and Sabbath uiurning from all ])art8 of tlie country, liny 
are liero relieved from tlie conventional restraint whicli keeps theiii in 
«Mder at home, and every one is free to gratiiy Ids appetites at his will. 
You understand such things, and very well know that nuiuy of those jh'i- 
Bons who, if at homo on that 8abbath would go to church, and exhibit a 
deal of hypocritical piety, Avill go to tho haunts of vice in this city, and 
Hcoir at all religion, and wallow in wickedness. Every one of tlieni who 
loves the company of the vicious, will seek out vicious companions, and go 
where he will enjoy hims(!lf •nost. On thv> ther hand, those who really 
love the Lord, and in their very hearts want t-^ do the righ* thing wherever 
they are, will seek out " m church n tliat Sabbatli, : r will in some way 
hiiowout and act out tin love for tJio Joud and his people which donii- 
iialcH tiieir lives. S^, when poopL arriv • m the spiritual wo.ld where all 
coiivcntiona* restrai!:ts a.'o removed very one acts out his real natun;. 
The wicked graduall/ sort thomselve. out troi:. the goind, and gravitutt^ by 
choice to tho hells A h 11 is simply a s ciety in wliich wickedness holds 
entirw sway; and the worse the wickednes" the worse the hell. 

llt'povtvr. liiit liow a! out Mie |)unishnient foi fin 1 Is not hell a plpct ot 
torment ? and u ii is, why do even the wicked like to go there 1 

Mr. 11. Wliy do the wicked go from choice into the hells of this world, 
un(l voluntarily accept tho loss, disgrace, ruin, disease, suftering, and 
ileath, which come of going there ? I'eople are the same in the world of 
Hpirit,s that they are here : tliat is to say, they are human beings. Suppose 
you and 1 were to be struck dead this moment, and pass into the t, itual 
world. You would be you, wouldn't you, and I would be 1 ? We'sliould 
have tlio same spiritual natures which we have now, you would like lliere 
wliat you like here ; and it would l»c the same with mo. If wo really lovo 
Cioi> and our neiglibour here and now, we thould love God and our 
iH'ighbuur (hero and then. If wo love what is pure and holy here we 
Khould love what is ])ure and holy there. IJutif we really in our hearts 
love sell', and tho world, and evil and wickedness here, wo should love the 
same there, no matter what we may |)iet(!nd to love her. And loving 
wickedness we should go annnij? the wicked, because we should prefer to 
dt HO. And being among the wicked, we should, of course, liavo u wicked 
and unhui)py time of it, and grow worse and worse, and become very 
devils, and be tormented by our own burning passions and by our fellow 
devils, and sull'er unspeakable anguish ; and vet wo would prefer that 
devilish state to heaven, just as tho human devils in this world prefer tLeir 
horrible life surr-undings to the society of good christians. 

Ueporfer. I understand how it must naturally bo as you say; but still I 
do not see where tho punishment which Uod iullicts on sinners for tho sius 
they committed in this world comes in. 

Mr. //. Tho L'^rd does not i)unish people hereafter for deeds done in 
the body. " Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." In the Loun'a 
dealings with Hi-* creatures there is no such thing as i)unishment, in the 
sense in which that word is generally used, but only philosophical conse- 
quences. If you tako hold ot hot iron, it burns you. Tho burning is not 
* a punishment, arbitrarily inflicted, but only a natural con80<juence. If a 
man eats or drinks any thing poison nis CV Imrtfttl, ihe Inevitable conse- 
«luonces follows, and his body is iniurcd,«r perhaps his llfo sacrificed. So, 
too, if a man commits sin, his sotil Jo iiiiurod- as a spiritual consoqiftMicc; 
and by continuing in sin, ho comes to lovo it, aad Tils Boul ffets such an 
apjxitite for it that In continues sinning in tlio tvorld of Binrits, and grows 
in wickedness, and rinally goes t'^ hell, ua afipl''itual consequence of his 
sins, just as a drunkard finally goes to a drunkard's grave not as a punish- 
ment arbitrarily i , osed uron him for his 'ifJ^Tico, out as ft i)hyBiolOijical 
consequence of h.« )xcessive nidulgonce Ins<tronp drink. 

Jipporler. Do ineu go to hcavo i on ttie same pTincipics? 

liy cultivatinir dnrtn«r this lllfe love to the 



Mr. 11. Precisely. liy cultivating during this 



Lord and 




and trying to do tho greatest i>08sible gooil to one auoluer, must makoj 
ht'rtvcu wUoiOvei tUey may bo. 



AW»END1X TO THE ARTIKANS' OTTIDE. 



53 



on any civpn 
mitry. liny 
•upa thfiu ill 
J at his will. 

of tlioso pcr- 
ud exhibit a 
tliia city, and 

of tht'iu wilt) 
uiona, and gn 
so who ri'iilly 
iiiiig whun'vtT 

in aoiiii! wajr 
3 which doiiii- 
a.hl where all 
is real nature, 
id gravitate by 
jkeducsb holds 
11. 

hell a. plrcu ot 
ere ? 

i ul'thiH world, 
suftbrui},', and 
II t\io world of 
iugs. bvippso 
to the t. -itual 
1 1 We ttliDuld 

wo really lovo 
15 Cioi) and our 
I holy hero we 
y in our hearts 

should love the 
,r , And loving 
should prefer li> 
. havo a wicked 
id become very 
id by our fellow 
)uld prefer that 
orld proier their 

„ say ; but still I 
lueruforthosiuH 

deeds done in 
In the Loan's 
nishment, iu the 
osophical couKe- 
lo burning is not 
nsetiuence. It ft 
Inevitablo conse- 
fo sacriticed. So, 
lal consoqvft'ncc; 
3Ul getB such an 
piritR, and grows 
Tiseiiueuco ot his 
.notnsftpunixh- 

L8 ft ybyijiuloiiitittl 

to the LoRiJ and 
ulves the habii oi 
iherlilo seeks 1 ho 

en that ftCou""^'- 
vlngoTW another 



Ticpnrffir What chance is thoro for doing pood to your neighhonrf in 
heaven* Doesn't the Lord give yourneigbbours all they want there with- 
out your help? 

M'r. II. 11 does not do it thero any more than lie does it here, yon must 
remember that our happiness comes througli tlie right us(> of the faciiltii's 
which the Lord lias bestowed on us. Tlie Loud works bv instrumentali- 
ties iu heaven the same as lie does here. For example, he gives us tiio 
relation between husband and wife, of parent and cliild, of teacher and 
i-cliolar, to brinjr into activity and to gratify our deepest and teiideiest 
iilU'ctions, and it is only in this way— that is, by the exercise of our 
airectio; 8— that we can get any develojiment. 

ii'ejxmer. Do you mean to say tliat tliero are the relations of husbands 
and wives, parents and children, and teacliers and scholars in lieaveii? 

Mr. If. 1 do. Natural death lias no power to effect a permanent si'para- 
tion between a husband and wife who have tend«>rly loved eaoh otluM-iu 
the world and a the same time were grounded in sincere love to God. 
There are liusbands and wives iu heaven a.s thore are on this earth; and 
though no children are born there yet the children who die in this world, 
and who all go to heaven havo to be brought un and educated to adult 
ftjje; so, too the ignorant good peoph^ among Christians and the good 
among the heathen, wlio all go to heaven, have to be instructed there. 
And in lact wliat do the wisest of iis know in comparison with the 
!uig«!ls who have been in heaven for thousands of years? As arrivals 
tbt'ie are incessant, there is never any cessation of the work of instruction. 
. * -.iCo there is the exercise of the parental ollice, and the relation of 
iLnchcr nnd scholar. Did it ever occur to you to imagine what has be- 
come of the myriads of infauts that have died and gone into the world of 
spirits. Do you suppose thatinfants that died live tliou.sand years ago are 
ki'pt bottled up somewhere as infants still? Are all the infants thatliavo 
(lied, and that are dying, and that will hereafter die, to bo kept for ages upon 
a^'cs in an infantine state, and then be finally judg«d as infants, and sent 
to I heir doom as infants, and kopt as infants,— myriads of them not ono 
hour old— throughout eternity? Do you suppose there is to be any such 
wa^te of immortal material as that? Is it not more reasonable to suppose 
tliiit tln> LoKD in the exercise of His infinite love and wisdom, has made 
jiMvision for their care, and comfort, and instruction? It would lio 
liisMy considered an act of atrocious cruelty to send countless infants olf 
t.) some distant land, without makiug any provision for their welfare 
when Ihev should arrive at their de.stination. And is there any roasonabh^ 
nligious heii:" on earth who would dare to imagine that the Lokd has not 
m;i(le ample provision for the well'aro of all ills little ones that go iu their 
lii'lplossiiess to the unseen land? 

licpnrttr. All the mothers will be apt to accept yonr doctrine as to tlin 
fate of infants in the other life. It looks reasonable. Hut if Swedenborg's 
views are correct, it strik(>« me that a great many good Christians arc fore- 
doomed to disappointment, and will not find the heavt'u they longeil 
liir. 

A!r. If. Thorn you are mistaken. Swcdenborg expressly says, that every 
Riiod person, on his lirst arrival in the world of sjarits, llnds exactly tho 
ieaven he believes in. . 

Kepnrti'v. Why is that? 

Mr. U. To tako the nonsense out of him. When people imagine that 
heavenly happiness consists in endless worship, or singing, or sitting on 
Icds of flowers, or roaming in paradisaical gardens, or Hasting with tho 
patriarchs, or merely getting into a place called heaven, they are allowed 
tu try the experiment, till they become so disgusted that t he v wish to 
broiik away from such enjoyments, and escape to some place where they 
can find something useful to do. They are then instructed that heaven 
consists in i)erf'orming uses— doing useful things— in the name of the Loud, 
1 and riuTTt glad are they to learn that lesson. The ess^nco of heavenly de- 
light IS tho doing of good to ofhens, and not the seWish gratification ol 
I onn's own desires. Swedenborg says that the angels not only love the. 
[npifrhbour a-< themselves, but better than themselves, and lind inctfable 

Wljiht In ministering to their neighliours. That is in accordance with tho 
Iti'iicliinpof (he I/ikd while on earth : " IJiit he that isureatest among you 
hliall bo your seivant." (Matt, xxiii. 11. ' i 



U 



ift 



54 



ArPF.XDTX TO TITE AUTIZAN S OltlBTl. 



i 



frrpnrfer. But what do nnjfols find to do inhoavon r 

.)//•. If. Every thing that good men and women do in a jwrfoct stufc of 
society oijeartli, witii of course sucli exceptions as grow out of the dilFcr- 
ence between the material and tlie spiritual worlds. Some are teacliers nf 
religious truth to new comers from this world. Some, particularly woiiier,, 
ta"ko care of infanta and children. • Immense numbers are engaged in 
wutclung OTcr us who still live hero in this world. " Are they not all niiii- 
i.stering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall bo heirs ot sHlvn- 
tion," (Heb. i. 14), and as many, if not more, in ameliorating themiMerics 
of the inmates of hell. It is there as it would be here in a community of 
good and benevolent pecmle, each one does what he is best qualified for to 
promote the general welfare and happiijss. 

Jieiiorfer. Will people know each othe • there ? , . - _ 

Mr If. Yes, but if that knowledge is oi.ly of the'oiitward seeming as it 
often is in this world, and not of real interior character, it will .sooii pass 
away, because there everybody at length has to show his real character, 
no hypocrisy is possible there. Hence, unless people have an interior 
athnity for one another, they do not remain together in the spiritual 
world. y. . 

Reporter. Do you administer the usual ordinances ? 

Mr. J'< Ve administer the rite of liaptism, and the sacrament of the 
Holy .^aj>per, and carry on our worship very mucii like other Cliristians. 
We are liberal in our notions as to otiier sects, and wish them all (iorl 
rpeed. The fact is the New Jerusalem is coming down out of heaven in all 
parts of the world and in all denominations. It has transformed tlio 
theology and the preaching of Christendom within a century. Henry 
Ward Iteecher preaches more of the essence of the new church doctrines 
than some of our own ministers. Bishop Clark ofUhode Island <l()es the 
same. By the essence of our doctrines, I mean 'ovo to Cioi) and tlic 
neighbour carried out in actual life by keeping the commandments, both 
in their letter and their spirit. 

To the foregoing, wo add the following extracts from Swedenborg. 
Thk Critkuion FORCnAHACTKii. — "Man may know which he is amongst, 
whether amongst the infernal spirits or the an<rolic. If he intends evil to 
(lis neighbor, thinking nothing but evil concerning him, and actually do- 
ing evil when in his power, and ilnding delight in it, ho is amongst the in- 
fernals, and becomes himself also an infernal in the other life; but if ho 
intends good to his neighbor, and thinks nothing but good concerning 
him, and actually does good when in his power, he is amongst the anj^eijc, 
and becomes himself an angel in the other life." " Let a man soarcli out 
the end which he regards in preference to all the rest, and in respect to 
which subordinate ends are as nothing; and if he regards self and the 
w rid as ends, be it known to him that his life is an infernal one ; but if 
he regards as ends the good of his neighbor, the peneral good, the liouo's 
Kingdom, and especially the Loud Himself, be it known to him that his 
life is a heavenly one." " A man serious in his duty towards (iod and his 
neighbor, may always know whether ho is on tlie right road to salvaiion 
or not, by (>xamihing himself and his own thoughts by the T(!n Coininanil- 
meiits; as, for instance, whether he loves and fears God; whether lie is 
happy in seeing the welfare of others, and does not envy them ; whether 
on having received a great injury from others, which may have excited 
liim to anger and to meditate revenge, ho afterwards changes l;(s senti- 
inonts, because God has said that vengence belongs to him, and so on; 
then he may rest assured, that he is on the way to heaven, but when he 
discovers himself to be actuated by contrary sentiments, on the road to : 
hell." 

Concerning Agk in IlEAVRN.^Thoso who are in heaven nre continu- 
ally advancing to the spring of life, and the more thousumls of yoars they j 
live to a spring so much the more delightful and hai)py, and this to eter- 
nity, with increments according to the progresses and degrees of love, 
charity, and of faith. Of the female sex, those who have died old audi 
worn out witli age, and have lived in charity towards their n(>ighboi-, audi 
in happy conjugal love with a husband, after asucceshionof years cornel 
niont and moieuilo tlie (lower of youth and adolescence, and intoatieautv| 
Tvhich exceeds every idva of beauty ever perceivable by the sight. Ciood-| 






'APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZAN's QUTDE. 



55 



lorfoct state of 
itofthodiircr- 
arc toacliors ot 
mlarly woukt., 
iro (Mifja^od in 
«>y not all iniii- 
ii ]mr» of salvn- 
ng tliP miseries 
, community of 
(lualifiod for to 



I sopminf^ as it 
it will soon pass 
I roal cliaractcr, 
ftve an interior 
in the spiritual 



i\ci amPTit nf tho 
itlior Cliristiiiiis. 
sh them all (iod 
tot heaven in all 
transformed tho 
century, lleiiry 
slmrch doctrines 
Island does tlie 
to God a"<l tl"' 
nandments, hotli 

iWPdonborjj. 
ich ho is amongst. 

1,0 intenils evil to 
, and actually do- 
s amongst the m- 

pr life; »>"t if '"' 
good conceriuuf; 
oiigst the aUL'elic, 
a man soarcli out 
and in respect to 
-ards self and tUe 
tcrnalone; hut it 
.rood, the I-oUPR 
^u to him tiiat liis 
iranls (Iod and jus 
road tosalviiiiou 
(i(. Ten Comniiiiiil- 
od; whether he IS 
kry them; whetlier 
may have excited 
changes Lis sonti- 
,1 him, and so on; 
wen, hut wlK'ul"' 
■ts, on the road to 

«avpn i^rp contimi- 
undH of y<-ars tluy 
y, and this to etiT- 
d dcRrees ot love, 
uvvo *liod ol.l an. 
heir '>'>iS'''""'' ""'! 

won of y'«T- Zv 

\andintoalH;n"'J 



jiess and charity Is wTiat forms and malcps a n>spm7»Tanco of itself, and 
t-auscs tho delightful and beautiful of ciiarity to shino fortli fVom the 
ininutest parts *vi" tlio face, so that they tli<>mselvos aro forms of charity, 
'(hey have boon seen by some, and have excited a.xtonishmcnt. The fbrm 
of charity, whicli is seen to the life in heaven, is such, that charity itself is 
what pfligies and is efligiod, and this in such amannei, tiiat tho whole 
angel, especially the face, is as it wore charity, which manifestly both 
ajipears, and is perceived, which form, when it is behold, is inofliible 
beauty, affecting with charity the very inmost of theinind. In a Word, to 
grow old in heaven is to grow young; those who have lived in love to tho 
J.f'iii) and in charity towards their neiglibor, become such forms, or such 
h( auties, in tho other life. Heaven and Hell. 414. 

Statu of thk Would and Church, aftkk, and in CoiJhequbncb 
()i-\THKLAST JuDOMKNT.— "Thes<a/e of the WOULD hereafter will bequite 
similar to what it lias been heretofore, for thogreat change, which hasbe«n 
e(r(>ctpd in the spiritual world, does not induce any change in the natural 
world as regtlrds the outward form ; so that the aflhirs of states, peace, 
treaties and wars, with all other things which belong to tho rocieties of 
men, in general and in particular, will exist in the future, just as they ex- 
isted in the past. The Lord's saying that in the last times there will be 
wars, and that nation will rise up against nation, and Itingdom a;^ain8t 
kingdom, and that there will be famines, pestilences and earthquakes iu 
(livers places," Matt. xxiv. 6, 7, does not signify that such things will 
exist in tho natural world, but that things correspondent with them will 
exist in the spiritual world, for the Word in its prophecies does not treat 
of the kingdoms, or ot the nations upon earth, or consecjuently of their 
wars, or of famines, pestilences, and eartluiuakes in nature, but of such 
things as correspond to them in the spiritual world, what these things 
are, is explained in the Aucana Cojlkbtia. But as for the statk of thk 
< iiURCH, this it is which will be dissimilar hereafter; it will be similar in-. 
deed in ihooiitward thrm, tmt dissimilar in theinward. Tooutward appear- 
ance divided churches will exist as hcretofons their doctrines will be taught 
as heretofore; and the same religions as now will exist among the Gentiles, 
lint henct'foruHird the. man of the church will be in a more free state of 
thinking on matters of faitli, that is, on spiritual things which relate 
to heaven, because sjnritua^ liberty has been restored to him. 
Tor all things in the heavens and in the hr'lls arc now reduced into 
order, and all things which putertains or opposes divine things inflows 
from thence — , from the heavens, all which is in harmony with divine 
tilings, and from the hells, all which is opposed to them, hut man does 
not observe this change o( state in himself, because he does not reflect 
upon it, and because he knows nothing of spiritual liberty, or of influx; 
novertlieloss it is perceived in heaven, and al^o by man himself when he 
dies. .Since spiritual liberty has been reston^d to man, the spipitual sense 
of the Word is now unveiled, and interior Divine Truths are revealed by 
means of it; for man in his former .state would not have received them, 
and he who would have understood them would have profaned them." 
" Hence it is that atTterthe last judgment, and not sooner, revelations were 
niatle for the New Church. For since communication has been restored 
by the last .Judgment, man is able to be enlightened and reformed, that is, 
to understand tlie Divine Truth of the Word, to receive it when under- 
stood, and to retain it when received, for the interposing obstacles are 
removed; and therefore John, after tho former heaven and the former 
earth passed away, said that ho saw a new heaven and a new earth, and 
then, the l:oly city new Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaveu 
jircpared as a bride adorned for her husband ; and heard One sitting upon 
the throne say, liehold I make all things new." Kev. xxi. 1, 2(5. 

Tho above was written by Swcdenbor;? in 1768, or 115 years ago. The 
last judgment foretold in Matt, xxiv, Luke xxi. 9, '27, Uov. vi. 12, 17. 
XVI. 18, and other places, was fully accomplished in the spiritual world, 
(as described by him), by tho end of the year 1757, or the year previous to 
thuone flr.st mentioned, and I appeal to every enlightened mind if tho 
above statements regarding the condition of Hie world, and the 
slat»? 1?f the man of church have not been verified by actual histori- 
cal tacts, which even at this day, 1873, have assumed an amplitmle whicU 



i'l 






t^(J 



APiPENDiX TO THE ARTIZANS GUIDE. 



It wonld require a vo'nmp to flcscribp. The last jiirlgmont was oxoctjtnfl 
OH such of tlie wicked us had pussud into tlio spiritual world fnim tlu> 
J^oiiD's time until the year 1757, but not upon those who lived previous, 
lor a last Judgment )>ad twice before existed on the earth, the Hist was 
executed upon the posterity of the Most Ancient church, and is desciiiicd 
iu the Word by the flood; the other was ellected by the JiOUi) Himself 
when he was in the world, as it is written, " Now is the judgment of liijs 
•world, now is the prince of this world cast out," John xii.31. It is of 
Divine order that a judgment takes place at the end of u church, when 
ignorance of God, the falsitication of liis Word, and conseqi o t dreadlul 
wickedness has arisen to such a height that, for the sake oi the good, 

• judgment can no longer bo restrained, WitL these facts belore us, we can 
now perceive the infernal origin of that malignant spirit which hchl 
supreme sway during the dark ages down to tTie date in question, aiKl 
vented itself in murdering, burning, racking, and persecuting millions of 
innocent human beings in the name of religion. To this period may Le 
assigned the sublime descriptive imagery of the prophet, when he ,sayfi, 
" Behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people," 
of which wo will only say that we have had the darkness with a most 
terrible verity, for even now the man of the church is but slowly emerg- 
ing out of it. True order requires that man must divest himself of error 
and falsities before he can receive truths, and all exijerienco shows that 
this can only be effected gradually, and little by little, as the understand- 
ing becomes enlightened, for the will principle must be convinced from. 
or by, the understanding, and this in perfect freedom. It can never be 
lorced. 

By the holy city Xew Jerusalem, which was seen coming down from 
God out of heaven, mentioned in Kev. xxi., and described in the infernal 
sense of the Word, in Isa. Hi. 1, 2, (J, 9, Ix, 1, 22, Ixii., 1, 12, Ixv , 17, 2z. 
Ixvi., 22. Dan vii., 13, 14, is not meant a city, for it is described as being 
of pure gold, as being square, twelve thousand furlongs, or .about luoo 
English miles, each way, and the height the same, such a city could not 
exist on the earth, and is not to be so understood. By a city in the Word, 
is signified the Church as to doctrine, as when wo i)ray for the jieace of 
Jerusalem, we mean the Church, signified by ,Terusal(!ra. and not tlie city 
of that name in I'alcstine, so by the new Jerusalem, and its descriptinn by 
correspondences and symbols, in Kev. xxi., we are not to understand any 
«ity, but the nature and quality of a church, or New Dispensation of liivino 
,Truth, drawn from the Word, which would bo unfolded to the \v<irld 
|afler the last judgment had taken place. Every particular of this descrip- 

• tion involves a spiritual sense which precludes any error from entering 
into the interpretation. For instance, it is written, " And the twelve gates 
■were twelve i)earl8 ; every several gate was of one pearl," v. 21, by which 
is signified the great and g'jr'ous triifh that the acknowledgnont 
and knowledge of the Loud conjoins into one all the knowledges of truth 
and good derived from the Word. That the Lord is the very gate by 
■which to enter the Church and heaven, lie Himself teaches when He says, 
" J am the door ; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, " John x. 
9. This is also meant where it is written, " Open ye the gates, that tlie 
ii'ighteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in," Isa. xxvi., 2. 
'The Lord further says, "The kingdom of heaven is like unto a mercliant 
man, seeking goodly pearls ; who, when he had found Onk pkaiil oic 
'oRKAT PRinic, went and sold all that he had, and bought it," Matt, xiii., 
40, 46. Th^ one pearl of great price, signifies the knowledge and acknow- 
ledgment of the Lord ; to tell all that he ImkI and buy it, signifies for man 
ito divest himself of error and falsity, and receive this great truth. A rock, 
stones, precious stones, and pearls, are used in the Word as corresponding 
symbols of truth, hence the Loud as to the principle of His Divine Truth, 
is called the Rock, Deut., xxxii. I's. xcv., 1., and many riher iiliice-i, 

i the "stone of Israel" Gen. xlix., 24. "a stone, a tried stone, a precious 
corner stone, a sure foundation," Isa. xxviii., IG. The king of Tyre in 
Ezokiel, represents the man of the Church as to knowledgtis, hence it is 
written of him, " Thou has been in Eden, the garden of God ; every 
precious stone was thy covering, th*> sardius, topax, and th(> diamoii|[, the 
peryl, the onyx, and the jasjH^r, the sapphire, the emerald, and the cur- 



'^•^ 



/ 



AlTENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS GUIDE. 



57 



1 OXOCIlt^ll 

, Iridii thi' 

|)rcviini>, 
.. fiist was* 
< d*'scril)('(l 
,1) llimsflf 
lont of thi(* 
11. It is ot 
uch, whon 

,t drcatUul 
1 the good, 
) us, wo «^aii 
which hi'lil 
iit'stion, atxl 
- millit>i>8 of 

iiod may ^'^ 
en ho, says, 
the pooiili', 
with a most 
owly emerg- 
(iscU'oft'vrur 

shows tliat 

uutlorstuiul- 

vinced from, 

can novor be 

g down from 

1 the iiitovuul 
!, Ixv . IT, .'■i'^. 
ibod as b.'Oip 
or .about loDO 
city could not 
' in the Word, 
• the peace ot 
,d not tlio nly 
iescripti:^!! by 
lulerstaud any 
itionoflMvino 

to the world 
ifthis descrip- 
from entcr\ng 
to twelve gates 
21, by winch 
mowledgnent 
Icdgort of truth 
p very {,'ato by 
fwhon 11'^ siiy**> 
ved, ".»«>I"'X- 
'•atcs, that the 
I'isa. XXVI., i. 
ito a merciiani 
»NK FKAUL «;i<' 
t," Matt, xiu., 
te and acknow- 
gnities for man 
'trutli. A rock, 
corri'SponauifC 
Uivine'lrntn. 
„ .aier places 
[one, a precious 

Ingof'lX'Tt 
lees. lu!nco n is 

'.f Liou ; every 
i,. diamomL. ""' 
a, and the car- 



buncle, and gold" xxviii., 13. It is plain that these expressions are not 
to be literally understood, but are thus expressed for the sake of the spir- 
itual sense, in which precious stones signify truths. The like is meant by 
" Eden, the garden of God' ' in which the king of lyre is said to have been, 
wliich is used in the Word to denote intelligence, and wisdom thence 
derived. The garden of Eden was as much unknown in the time of the 
king of Tyre as it is at this day, such a locality as that described in Gen. 
ii., 8, 14, having no geographical existence on the globe ; hence the vain 
researches, travels, expeditions, writings, &c., of tlio curious and the 
learned, during the past and present ages, regarding this subject, they 
being ignorant that the whole account is to bo understood as a pure alle- 
gory, descriptive of the state of the men of the Most Ancient Church, 
i'hia was the universal style of writing among these people, it was derived 
from a heavenly origin, and they delighted in framing descriptions of thin 
kind, expressing spiritual truths by means of allegories or correspond- 
ences, making use of natural objects to symbolize spiritual truths. It must 
be visible to every one, that when the trees of the garden are described 
natural trees are not to be understood, for life, and the knowledge of good 
and evil, do not grow on such trees, and so on with other things. This 
style of writing is continued to about the end of the eleventh chapter of 
Genesis, where literal or true history begins, but still of such a nature that 
it involves a spiritual sense throughout. As mankind receded from a heaven- 
ly state, and oecame corporeal and sensual, believing in nothing which 
they could not investigate with their bodily senses, the knowledge of cor- 
respondences became gradually lost, and remained so, until under the 
Divine Providence of the Lord it has been again restored to the Church, 
and made available to unfold the true meaning of the Word. So now those 
who have hitherto " walked in darkness" may •' see a great light," and the 
Church may bo addressed in the sublime language of the prophet, " Abisb, 

HIIINK ; FOR THY LIOUT IS COMB, AND TUE OLOBY OV TUB LOBD IB 
niSKN UPON THBE." 

SUMMARY STATEMENT OF THE DOCTRINES OF TUE NEW 

CHURCH. 

r. God Is One In Essence and in Person, in whom there is a distinct 
and essential Trinity, called in the Word the Father, Son, and Holy Spi- 
rit, and the Lord Josus Christ is this God, and the only true object of 
worship. 

II.— In order to be saved, man must believe on the Lord, and. strive to 
obey his commandments, looking to Him alone for strength and assistance, 
and acknowledging that all lifie and salvation are from Him. 

III. — The Sacred Scriptures, or the Divine Word, is not only the Reve- 
lation of the Lord's will and the history of his dealings with men, but 
also contains the infinite treasures of his wisdom expressed in symbolical 
or correspondontial language, and tuerefore in addition to the sense ot 
the letter, there is in the Word an inner or spiritual sense, which can be 
interpreted only by the law of correspondence between things natural and 
things spiritual. 

IV.— Now is the time of the Second Coming of the Lord, foretold in 
Matt, xxiv., and the establishment of the New Church signilied by tho 
New Jerusalem in Revelation xxi., and this Second Coming is not a vis- 
ible appearance on earth, but a new disclosure of Divine 'Truth and the 
l)romulgation of true Christian Doctrine, effected by means of the Lord's 
servant, Emanuel Swedenborg, who was specially instructed in this Doc- 
trine, and commissioned to publish it to the world. 

v.— Man's lile in the material body is but the preparation for eternal 
life, and when the body dies man immediately rises into the spiri^^ual 
world, and, alter preparation in an intermediate state, dwells for ever iu 
Heaven or Uoll, according to the character acquired during his earthly 
life. 

VI..— The Spiritual World, tho eternal homo of men after death, is not 
remote from this world, but is in direct conjunction with it, and we are, 
though unconsciously, always in immediate communion with angels aivX 
spirits, I 



68 



APPENDIX TO THE ARTIZANS' CiUIBE. 



THE First Ebskntiat, KS'oWLfincjK.— " Tho flrsl tliiiij? will bo tolcnowM-lio 
i.s tlu! Gol) of Iloiivoii, Kiiu'c all otlier tliiiij/silciieiul (in tlisit. In tlic univc■r^;al 
lu'ivvon no other is iu'kno\vk'(lt,'('(l for tin; CJOI) of liciivi^n than tlm LoUD alone. 
Thi'y say thoru asHu hiniaolf taught, " tliat ]lo is one with th(^ I''athor, that the 
Father is in lllni and Ho in in the Fiitlier ; nnd ho tliat W'etli Jiini seeth tlie 
Father ; and that every thiiiK holy proeeedeth from Him,'' Jolin x, ;i(l,;is ; xiv. 
30, II. xvi. l.'!-l(> — Tlio very essential princijilti of tlie chuirh is th(! iickiiow- 
]e(l^,'enient of the union of the Divine itself in the llunuin of the LoHU and 
this must be in all and sinRular the things of wor.-^hi]). The reason why (his 
is an essential of the chureh, and henco an essential of worship, is, because the 
Balvation of the human rare deiiends Bolely tni that union." 

If the do<-trines ombriioetl in these weighty sentiences wcrelield and accepted 
by the jiresent church it would assuredly ko1v(3 the most jierplexing theologi- 
cal iiroblem of the age. Thousands of good men are utterly in tlu? dark as 
regards tliisgrand fundamental truth. Among tliem we would rank the llcy. 
^V. li. H. Jlurray, the celebrated preacher of Park St. Chun h. Itoston, who, in 
till' hearing of the writer, during his Sabbath afternoon lecture, Ajiril T), 1874, 
]nad(! statements to the effect that "the doctrine of th(; Trinity as 
held l)y us 'J'rinitarians is an inc'xplicable mystery ; for my own jiart I never 
could exjilain how thri'(! distinct jiersons could be one (ion, I do not under- 
stand it, do not wish to understand it, ncNcr could and never will under- 
Btand it, not even in eternity." A very dill'erent estimate may be seen in .ler, 
ix. '2;i, 24. " Thus saitli the Lord, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, 
neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in 
Ills riches . but let him that glorieth, glory in this, that he understandeth and 
knoweth me, thati am the Lord which exercise lovingkindness, judgment, 
nnd rightccmsnessin the earth," The time is coming when the earth shall be 
full, not of the mysteries, contradictions and perplexities of a trinity of 
throe separate i)crsonS in one Clod, for it is full of that already, but when it 
shall be full of the kiioirltdf/c of the LORD as the wat' rs cover the sea. It is 
liecause e))iritual truths, ad^'quate to satisfy tlie most exalted cravings of the 
}iumau mind, have been revealed in great abundance at this day by the LoUD 
through tSwedenborg, that this himdile effort is made to direct attention to 
liis writings. AVhen wo know these truths, happy shall we be if we live up 
to tliem. "Then shall wo kiiotc, if we follow on to hnm the Loul) ; His 
{foing forth is ])rei)ared as the morning, and he shall come to usas the rain, as 
the former and latter rain upon the eui'th," 

Man bUOL'i-U ACT AHOK lii.MSKLK,— " Such is the Law of order t^mtman 
ought to do good asof himself, and therefore not to hang down his handi*, under 
the idea that, bei'ausehe cannot of himself do any thing that is good, he ought 
to wait for immediate influx from above, and so remain in a passive state ; for 
this is cfmtrary to order ; but he ought to do good as of himself ; and when he 
retlccts upon the good which he does, or has done, he should think, acknow- 
ledge and believe, that it was the LoiU) with him who wrought it. When a 
jjorson hangs down his hands iimler the above mentioned idea, he is not a sub- 
ject on which the LORD can operate, since the LORD cannot operate by influx 
fin any one who dei)rives himself of every thing into which the requisite 
liower can be infused." 

ON INI'-ANTS IX JlEAVEX— " It is thc belief of some, that only the infants 
•who are bom within *lu3 church come into heaven, but not those who are burn 
out of the church ; because, they say, the infants within thc church are 
baptised, and by b.aptism initiated into the faith of the chun^h ; but they 
do not know, that no one has heaven or faith liy baptism ; for baptism is 
only for a sign and memorial that man is to be regenerated, and that he 
can- bo regenerated who is born within the cliurch, since there is the AVorU 
where are the Divine truths by which regeneration is effected, and there the 
LoJiD is known from whom regeneration is. Let them know therefore, that 
every infant, wheresoever ho is born, whether within the churgJior out of it, 
wliether of ))ious parents or of impious, when he dies is received by the LoHi), 
and is educated in Heaven, and according to Divine order is taught and indiiicd 
with the knowlwige of truth ; and afterwards its he is jjerfectcd inintelligem-e 
and wisdom, he is introduced into heaven and becomes an angel. Every one 
who thinks from reason kiu)ws that no one is born for hell, but all for 
heaven, and that man himself is in fault that he comes into hell, but tltai, 
infants can as yet be in no fault." 



Al'PENDTX TO THE ARTIZANS TJIIDE 



f.a 



' iiiiivorsiil 
Dlin aUnio. 
:>r,tliat Ihi" 

U SU('t\l tlic 

•,W,W ; xiv. 

U! llfklloW- 

hoKli antl 
;.n why this 
bccaiiw the 

md accepted 
iifj theoliiiii- 
tiK! dark as 
Ilk thellcv. 
iton. who. in 
M.ril T), 1874, 

Trinity as 
liavtl never 
I., not nnder- 
• will luuler- 
pcen in .ler. 
II his wiPihiui, 
man frh'^y i" 
rstanileth ami 
ss, iudt'Tiient, 
earth shall bo 
' a trinity of 
, but when it 
the sea. It is 
•avinps of the 
y by the Lord 
ct attention to 

it we live up 
ic loud; ili!* 
as the rain, as 

mlcr that man 
ishand^. nndcr 
gootl, be ontrht 
isivc state ; for 
, and wben he 
link, aeknow- 
lit it. When a 
he is not a sub- 
)erate by i"*!"'' 
the requisito 

mly the infants 
sc who are burn 
the church arc 
iir,:h ; but they 
for baptism IS 
d, and that he 
^re is the ^\"r" 
1, and there tlic 
therefore, that 
rgaior out of it. 
edbytheLoiU). 
ii^rbtandinilmea 
•ainintellit-'eneo 
ijiol. Every. mc 
luilL but all for 
o hell, but thai. 



Sncli is S'vednnborR's testlmnny from thinffs heard and seen. Tt will do 
any or.e Koml to read thi. "ntiro ehajiter " On Infants and little (,'hildren in 
][((aven" in his work on " .leaven and Tlell" from wliii-h the alxjve extract 
is taken. Now examine tho SAVloril's testimony ; "SnlYer little (children to 
come unto me, and forbifl them not, for of such is t)u! kiiif^dom of heaven," 
]\Iatt. xix. 14. A^ain, " For I nay unto you that in heaven their antfols do 
always behold tho face of my Father which is in heaven," Matt, xviii. 10. 
]5y way of contrast wo shall now present somo cxtracl^ from eminent cx- 
ponndcrs of tho old theolofxy and let tho reader jndf,'0 which la truo and 
whicli is false, which is from above, and which from beneath, AuKustinc'a 
opinion is as follows. "It may then^foro bo truly said, that Infants dyin>? 
without baptism, will bo in a state of damnaticm of all tho uiost mild. But, 
f/reatlij does he deceive, and is he deceived, who aflflnns that tfiei/ irill not be 
ilammed." De J'eccat merit et Remiss Lib. 1 . c. 1 fi. FniKcntins writes as follows : 
" We most lirmly hold, and by no means doubt, that IXKAVI'S, whether they 
beu;in to live in their mother's wonil), mul then die, or, after beint^ born 
])ass from tliis life witlioiit tlio sacrament of holy bajitism AVlMi V.V, IMXISIII'",!) 
AViril 'I'lIM KVi:il[.ASI'IN(J l'UN'ISll.MKN"r OV KTKHXAL FlUK." FulijentillS de 
fide (id Pet, Diac. (Jap. xxvii, 

Calvin, in his reply to (!a-;talio Bays, " Porsons innnmorablo are taken out 
of life whil(! yet infants,— and (ion rilKcii'lTATKS into KTKiiXAf, r»i:ATir 

JlAIl.UfiKSS INI'AN'I'S TOIl>f KIIOM TIIKIll JIO'I'IIKUS' IIIIKASTS." In his JilSti- 

tides the stern (lenovan further inquiries, I "ask you a!,'ain,how has it happened 
that tho fall of Adam has involved so many nations with their in/uiit 
children in eternal death without remedy, hwthccnwm it so seemed good in tho 
Hih'ht of (lOD? — It is a dreadful decree, I confess." Inst. Lib. iii. c. 2(5, 

Zanchius, another hi}^h authority of tho ago of Calvin, in his reply to 
ri^hius writes as follows: "fivw young serpents and the irhelps ot irolves, who 
cannot as yet harm anybody, aro put to death, and with justice. — Therefore, 
KVKX INKANTS AUR DMSKKVKUriY DAMXKD, on account of tho nature they 
have, to wit, a wicked nature and reiJupnant to the law of OoD." Even tho 
tenderhearted Dr. Watts writes in this way, "Uj)on tho whole, tho opinion 
of tho salvation of all children, as it has no countenance front the Jiible, so 
it has no foundation in the reason of things." — " Tho Scripture brinfjs down 
tho infants of wicked jiersons to tlio Rrave, and loaves them there, and so do 
I. The Scripture has not provided any resurrection for theui, neither can I do 
it." Ruin and Recovery, Quest. IC. 

Archbishop Usher, in answer to tho question " TTow doth Got) deal with 
Hoprobates dying infants," pays, "Being once conceived they arc in a s'ate 
of death by reason of tho sin of Adam imputed, and of original corruption 
cleaving to their natiite, wherein also dying they perish." Usher's Body of 
JHvinity, p. C'). 

At the Council of Dort tho Genevan Professors said, " Of the infants of 
believers only, who die of an ago before they can bo indoctrinated, wo doter- 
inino that they are saved," and tho deputies from Switzerland expressed their 
judgment thus, "That there is election and reprobation of infants, as well 
as of adults, we cannot deny against God, who tenderly loves, and inculpably 
]tntes them before they are born." 

The Rev. William Twiss, D.D., Prolocutor or Chairman of tho Westminster 
Assembly, writes, " Every inan that is damned is damned for original as well 
actual sins, and and many thousand infants only -for original." Again, "If 
3nany thousands, even all the infants of Turks and Sa7'acens dying in original 
sin, are tormented by GoD in hell fire, is ho to bo acccmnted tno Father of 
cmielties for this." The Riches of 'O'od's Love consistent with his Absolute Hatred 
of the Vessels of Wrath. Fol. ed, 1053. 

Antony Burgess, another member of this famous Assembly, ^vritos, " It is n 
quickening meditation which Vedelius useth, to mako a godly man thankful 
for God's grace, — ah, how many little children ai-o and sliall be in hell, wlio 
never had tho knowledge of good and evil." Burgess on Original Sin, pp. 550, 
551. Ed. l(ir)!». 

])r. Manton, a popular preacher at Parliament, who -wroto a hundred 
and thirty-nine s»'rmons on tho cxix Psalm, compares " infants to seriwnts 
before they bo grown," and reasons in favour of this Infamous doctrine. 
Manton's Sernion^. Vol. 3, Ser. xxv. 

We qnote from Arthur llildersham's Lectures on the fifty-first Pstvlm, 



f. 



60 



Ai'PENDlX TO THE ARTIZANH (IIIIDE, 



" At,'fiinRt those damnable errom, (ono of which is that all who dio in thcii' 
Infancy nhall certainly go to heaven,) you have heard it evidently proved, 
1. That all infants arc sinners, and deserve damnation. 2. That many infants 
have been vessels of wratli, and FIKEURANDH OP HELL." 

That those assertions are rank with tho sulplmrotis fimanationa of the pit, 
wo think few will (juestion, hut thanks to the advancing light of tho Ni.-w 
Dispensivtion, this atrocious doctrine, along with many others pertaining lo 
the old Theology, arc fast taking their place among tho discarded rubbish of 
the past. IIo woulH bo a bold man indeed who would dare to oildress a con- 
gregation in this style at tho present doy„ 

ON Si'iuiTUAL Influx— ONLY one Life.—" From very much cxpcricnro 
I am instructed, that there is but one single life, which is tliat of the Loud 
which flows in and causes man to live. For there is only one life, namely, 
tho LOllD'H, which flows in into all, but is variously received, and this accord- 
ing to tho quality which man by his life has induced upon his soul ; hence 
with the evil, goods and truths aro turned into evils and falses, but with tho 
good they aro received, goods as goods, and truths as truths. This will ailniit 
of comparison with the light which flows in from the sun into objects, and 
which is then diversely modified and variegated according to the form of the 
parts, and is thence turned into colors either sad or cheerful. The heat which 
hatches eggs wherein lies hid an owl, a toad, or an asp, does the like as whoa 
it hatches eggs in which lies hid a dove, a beautiful bird or a owauo Tlio 
rase in general with influx out ot tho spiritual world into man is this, that 
man cannot think anything, or will anything from hims<elf, but that every- 
thing flows in. good and truth from the Lord through heaven, thus throuf,'h 
tho angels who arc with man ; evil and the false from hell, tlius througli ilw 
evil spirits who aro with man ; and thus into man's thought and will. 

lie who does not know how tho case is with man's intellectual faculty, and 
how man can take a view of things, perceive thom, think analytically, form 
conclusions thence, and at length refer to the will, and by tho will into act, 
such a ono sees nothing to admire herein ; hosupposes that all things thus flo'v 
naturally, not being at all aware that all and binglo things arc from inliux 
through heaven from tho LORD, and that man without such influx cannot 
think at all, and that on tho cessation of influx the all of thought ceases." 

Wo may learn from the foregoing the inmost origin »)f all tho ideas, thoughts 
and various shades of feeling that can possibly enter tho mind of man, and tho 
source of that wistlom which ho too often fondly calls his own, enabling him 
not only to think reverently or otherwise regarding Gou and the realities of 
eternity, but to enter into worldly avocations, such as the planning and l)uild- 
ing of houses, jjalaoos or ships, inventing and constructing machinery, i)rosc- 
cuting agricultural, professional, or mechanical operations, or in fact every- 
thing without exception connected with civilized or uncivilized life. From 
the si)iritual world, tho world of causes, flow in those thoughts which as wo 
say, " strike tho mind" on important or unimportant occasions as tho case 
may be. The origin of these thoughts is all tho same whether or not they 
may bo induced by tho assistance of external objects ; for instance the swiiy- 
ing of a suspended lamp in a vaulted Cathedral was instrumental in convoy- 
ing an idea of tho principle of tho pendulum to tho.mind of lluygens ;the fall 
of an api)lc led the mind of Newton to investigate the theory of gravitation; 
the rattling lid of a boiling tea-kettle led Watt to form an iiloa of the i)ower 
of steam which resulted in giving ns tho steam engine ; lastly, to adduce 
another instance, a minor near Newcastle is severely crushed in l)oth his limbs 
and is consequently confined to bis bed for several weeks. ITo falls into a 
train of thought regarding the best method of transporting tho coal waj^ons 
over tho tramways from the mouth of tho pit to the shipping, without the aid 
of horses. After long reflection he sends to the field for two turnips, and after 
Bponding some time in carving them into many curiously shaped pieces, ho 
adjusts each piece exactly in1;o its proper place, and after sending for ^tr. 
< rcorge Stephenson tho superintendent of tho mine, presented him with tho 
first model of a locomotive engine, complete in all its essential parts, f-'mh 
was the origin under Providence of an invention which has done so much for 
tho world. In every such case it appears to man as if his intolligonc(? was 
pelf-derived, when nevertheless, the truth as presenttKl by Rwedenborg, slmus 
ns that his wisdom is derived solely from tho inflnito source of all wisiloni, lliu 
IjOUD aloue. 



Al»l»ENDiX TO THE AUTIZANS' (JUIDE. 



ei 



(lit) in tlipif 
iitly proved, 
iiany iufaiitrt 

3 of tho pit, 
of tho New 
(crtaitiiiK^ lo 
}^\ rulibish of 
Idruss a COU" 

ti oxpcricnre 
of theliOHl) 
life, namely, 
i this accord- 
, Bonl ; hence 
but with tho 
lis will admit 
) tibjectH, and 
le form of tho 
lie heat which 
3 like as whoa 
a owaiu Tlio 
1 is this, that 
it that cvery- 
thuH throuj-'h 
IS through lUo 
lul will, 
il faculty, and 
lytically, form 
\ will into act, 
lings thud flo'V 
re from inllux 
inrtux cannot 
jht coartcs." 
ideas, thouKlit-J 
f man, and tho 
, cnablint,' him 
the realitioti of 
\m^ and Imild- 
chincry, prosc- 
r in fact every- 
ed life. From 
ts which as w« 
)nB as tho ca-^o 
leror not they 
ancothe sway- 
ntal in convoy- 
lygens ; tho fall 
of gravitation; 
a of tho ))owor 
^tly, to ailduce 
. both his limbs 
IIo falls into a 
,ho coal waj!;on3 
without tho aid 
rnip.t, and after 
japed pieces, ho 
sending for 'S\t, 
d him with the 
_al parts, Hnch 
mo so nnich for 
nteUlgonci' ^va^ 
•denborg, shows 
allwisilom, tlio 



The Eautii and the Hi'man Rack will auide for Eveu.— " That tho 
procreations ot tho human race will cimtinuo to eternity, is plain from many 
considerations, and of which the following oro the principal :— I. That tho 
human race is tho basia on which heaven is founded. II. That the human 
race is tho seminary of heaven. III. That tho extension of heaven, whicrh is 
for angels, is ao immense that it cannot bo filled to Eternity. IV. That thoy 
ar» but few respectively, of whom heaven at present is formed. V. That tho 
perfection of heaven increases according to plurality. YI. And that cvcTy 
Divine work has resiKJct to Infinity and Eternity. Tho angolic heaven is tho 
end for which all things in the universe wore created, for it is the end on 
account of which mankind exists, and mankind is tho end regardetl in thocro- 
.^tion of tho visible heaven, and the earths included in it ; wherefore that 
Divine work, namely, the angelic heaven, primarily has respect to Infinity 
hnd Eternity and therefore to its multiplication without end, for the Divine 
llnnsolf dwells within it. Hence also it is clear, that the human race will 
never cease, for were it to cease, the Divine work would be limited to a cer- 
tain number, and thus its rcspectivcnoss to Ir finity would perish. The Loud 
did not create the universe for his own sake, but for the sake of those with 
whom He will be in Heaven ; tor spiritual love is such, that it wishes to give 
its own to another ; and as far as it can do this it is in its being, in its peace, 
and In its blessedness : spiritual love derives this from the Divino Love of tho 
Loud, which is infinitely such ; from hence it follows that tho Divino Love, 
and henco tho Divine Providence, has for its end a heaven, which juay con- 
hist of men made angels, to whom He can givo all tho blessed and hapi)y 
things which are of love and wisdomt and givo thorn from Himself in them." 

Many unstable minds have raised ii huo and cry about tho world coming to 
an end, causing nmch fear and alarm when there was no just reason for it. 
The earth meant in the Word has come to an end many times, l)ut not so 
(lOD's fair and beautiful world of naturo. That is perfect for all tho purposes 
of its creation and will remain so for ever. [Soo page 0], No torracpieous 
globe is meant when tho Word says, " O cai;th, earth, earth, hear the words of 
J(!hovah." 

Owing to the general ignorance of mankind regarding tho spiritual signifi- 
cation of the symbols, or similitudes mentioned in tho Word, many have 
thought that by tho last judgment and the consummation of tho ago there 
ilescribed, the end of tho natural world is to be understood. But nothing 
ctmld bo farther from tho truth than this thought. It was the last judgment 
of tho most ancient Church when their posterity perished by the flood described 
in Genesis, a last judgment was executed by tho Lord at his advent into tho 
world, a last judgment was executed by Him in the spiritual world at His 
second advent in 1757 ; it is tho last judgment with every man individually 
when lit dies, but it is altogether a vain thing to imagine that either of these 
visitations could involve tho destruction of the world. All such fallacies have 
come to an end and will continue to do so for tho simple reason that the decla- 
rations of the Word are understood in e grossly literal sense, the sense of tho 
" letter, which killcth," overlooking that of tho " spirit, whi(rh giveth life." 

Tho end of tho world projjhcts exist<!d as long ogo as the tenth century. Ac- 
cording to Michclet's French History, it was the universal belief of the mid- 
dle ago that the thousandth year from tho nativity of Christ would be tho 
«'nd of tho world, and accordingly animmenso amount of property was^villed 
by the owners to tho Church, who expectctl to stand well at tho judgment 
by reason of their liborality= Many deeds of tho Church lands begin with 
the words. "In the approaching end of the world, I Count, or Baron, give 
tc such and such a Church, or monastery, such and such property, for tho 
benefit of my soul.'' 

.Joseph Mode, the greatest authority on this subject, twice fixed the end of 
tho world during tho last century, and once during his lifetime. 

Dr. Woolf, a missionary to Bochara for the conversion of tho Jews, cal- 
culated from tho prophecies that the world would come to an end in 1848. 
When some one asked hrm during the following year how he came to make 
HO groat a mistake, tho frank answer was returned, " Because I was a great 
ass." If other end of the world prophets had been equally candid, the vic- 
tims of this deidorable delusion would have been much less numerous than 
they are at present. 

lioid Napier, the discoverer of Algebra, mailc out that the end of the world 

^youid take place iu 18IV, - - '•* 

i\ 



02 



AH'ENDIX TO THE AUTIZANS' (JUimi. 



Tn tlio "fonmiriitary on thn Vow Tontiitiicnt" i(iil)liwl)i'<l imder the direc* 
tiiiii <i( Mr. Wesley, tlm jierifxHixed wiiH l.s:;o. 

lieiiKiiI, !i iiiystieiil writer, (Calculated tliut tho miik-nnliim would bopiii 
it ls;iii, mid lust VO(H) years. 

l''iitlier Miller, ns lie was r(il1o<l, rnnii)Utod tlint tlm Imrnljif: ^f tlio worM 
•wiiiild tiike ])1aee in tiio fall of lHi:t, or Hoiiietiino during' tlio folliiwiii^ryear, 
niid eveiiiiipily it Wiw given out aw ft miro tliin^'tliat tlio end would »'onn! 
on tlio '.''.'lid of Octolier, IX II, wlien tlin Loui> would apjienr visildy in tlio 
rloiKlsof heaven, I'liounands wero rendered almost insftun with oxeiteilietit. 
r.nsinesH was jiaralyzed and utorcfl vere closed in Tit^vf York by the Fcore. 
Ono t^tovo ilealer <dosed Ids plaeo <■>? businesH declnrint^ that no nioro ptoves 
woidd ever be wantetl in tins worlil A ehoemakcr tried to wind up bnsinesM 
liy ^'ivill^J; away liiH stock. A di^aloT in fruit, cakes, and confectionery dis- 
jioHd of hirt stuck in a Binillnr inarner to tliu jrreat' delight ()f the chil- 
ilreii, who warmly Velconicd th(! Tirojiagattnn <>f this new I'aith nmonp the 
• onfeelinners mid fruit dealers. Tho di^y iiiijiointcd for the final cidlapse of 
llie creation ciinio roun<l at last, but (ii) niiKlit have been expected, notliinn 
<ii||ii)ise(V cxcejit th(! prophecy. Oi.o jnight reasonably havi; supjiosed that 
Ihis exploded delnsion would liavo onded at tliirt point, but even now, some 
lliirty years later than tho above date, Mr. Miller's followers are still as 
hiiiiguino as over that a literal destruction of the earth is imponding. 

iJr. t'uniminKH hiia been at inuncuso labor to jirovethat the end of tho 
Avorld would take jilaco In 18C7. 

Thousands in Canada will rcmembor tho cxcitompnt caupod by a Mr. 
Haxter, several years apo, while delivering lectures to i)rovo the impondinR 
jjestnution of our planet at an early day. That day lias loTig since passed 
find gone, and tho face f if nature is still as fair as ever. 1 <'ertainly know 
that if not admitted into their jmlpits, Mr. Baxter was invitcnl by resjwct- 
ahlo clerirynien to address their Sunday School classes and succoechd in 
badly friglitening Kome of the children by hi« fire and briuistone end of the 
World harangues. . • 

Theso lamentable fallacies have been adduced for the solo purpose of 
showing the dangerous errors man may shun by a projier use of the inesti- 
mable disclosures given by the LORU through Swedt'nborg, as an unerrjng 
guide to the right understanding of tho Word. It wfll notbo unprofltahloin 
this connection to consider the past existence of tho human race as well as 
its future. Rollin,the historian, traces up the history of some of the ancient 
peoples to within a hundred joars of the date usually assigned to tht flood, 
and is much perplexed to account for the existence of powerful nations pos- 
sessing well organized amiies, embi'acing hundreds of thonsandi ol fighting 
men at that early period. The historian, with many othcri ootl before and 
since his time, never thought that by the flood describe^ li, Gencsir. we are 
to understand, not a flood of water, but a flood of irirjuity oi wickednoRs, 
and this is the true meaning of tho term wherever It occurs in Serii)ture. 
fcjuch a flootl took place when tho Messiah was cui off, at the one ol the 
Jewish dispensation, see Dan.ix.,2(!, and such floods are frequentlj referred 
10 throughout tho Psalms and Prophets, as well as in tho Xev Testament, 
and always with this signification. Let a nian take his Concordanct and 
examine the passages, and he will be astonished at their number. Tho 
Divine idea is expressed in this manner from the coiTesi)ondenct existing 
between a flood of water, which destroys natural life, and a flood of ini- 
quity, or wickedness, which destroys spiritual life. Furthermore, the; narra- 
tive of the flood, being written in tho most ancient style of compof<1tion, 
which consisted in the use of symbols, pimilitudes, and allegories, in tho 
description of everything relating to wisdom, is to be understood in aditfer- 
oiit manner from that literal or true history which begins at thoond of the 
eleventh chapter of Genesis. "Tho hieroglyi)hics inscribed on the temples, 
coK mns, and buildings of the Assyrians and Egyptians, and the wisdom 
according to which the early Greeks framed their mythologies and tables, 
were all derived from tho fragmentary knowle<lgos regarding tho correspond- 
ence between spiritual and natural things, derived from the ancients." 

Sir William Jones computes the first book of Vedas to bo 2800 years older 
tnan the birth of Ghrist, which according to the Hebrew calculation is 800 
years before tho time of Abraham. In that remote age the Hindoos pos- 
nodsed written books of religion. We copy the following from tho yativii, 



Al'I'KXDlX TO TFIR AIlTIZANs' (JUIDE. 



C3 



ho dlrec 

aid bo^iii 

tlio vfirlil 
.viiiiJC.viiir, 
iiiM conii! 
ily ill tlio 
ccitcnicnt. 
tlu> wiirc. 
oro pt liven 
J) bnhtini'Srt 
oncry dis- 
thn cliil- 
tmoiifj Uic 

•(tllil)ISO of 
.(1, linUliUK 
ipriFcd Diiit 

now, foiiic 
iro still aw 
dins,'. 

end of tho 

by a Mr. 
■ impondinp! 
hiiiiro passed 
Lrtinly know 

iiy rospect- 
uccreAd in 
C! end of the 

)f tiio inosti- 
nn nnerrjnR 
ipvofltal)lcin 
•e as well as 
thP ancient 
to tilt flood, 
nations pofi- 
II o: fiulitinR 
ti before and 
■nosif. wc arc 
wickcdncBs, 
ii. Scripture. 
, one ol tho 
•ntlj referred 
■ Testaniei\t, 
cordanct and 
umber. Tlio 
cuix existing; 
111 Kid of ini- 
■c, tho narra- 
composltion, 
fCoricH, IT; the 
,)d in aditfer- 
,hoend of the 
the temples, 
1 the wisdom 
.■s and tables, 
ho correspond- 
icicnts." 
<00 years older 
ulation is VW) 
Hindoos nos- 
IH tho yulioii, 



:'S 



In tho Isonn n( .\„f,n;' for O.-tol,,.,- 5nd, TTns <T Wallnee indii1-o^ in 
S..II10 H|>.M-ul,Ui(.ns on thi' pn.lul.l,. aMtlMiiitv of tlio liiimiui s|.r.>i(M wlii.'li 
nriy well stiirih' even IImkc who have lon>,' since eoiiio to the coiichHion 
lliaM,.()it')y..a,N,Mrry us l.iit :i, small way bark to tlie ori-inal liomo. Iiifact, 
in Mr. Walla-e H rckoniiv.', a thousand vears arc liiitas si day. II.' bei^ins by 
.•oiii|.lainmu' of thi- tiirii(b'ty of s.'icnti(i(! men when tivaUii^,' of tliU suhiert 
and iM.ints out Mie falla.'y of alwavs prclVrnntr th.' lowe-^t, esijrnalc iiionld 
to lie on the Hafe side, lie (i-eiar.'s that all theevld.'n.M! tends t ..show that 
th.> sato si.l.- M probably with th.? lar^'.' lltrnr.'S. II. > reviews th.i various 
iUI^Mii|.ts to d.t.'rmin.' the aiiti.|Mlty of th.. hiiimm r.Miiains or works of art, 

and Hnds th.' bron/.o au'.! in Kiirop.. to hav.f 1 n pretty accnrat.'ly liv.'.lat 

.ym) to 4,000 years a.'o, the Kt.ine av'.- of th.' Swiss dwi'llinvrs, at, .'i.OKO to 
1,000 years, ami an Iml.'finit.' ant.'ri..r pcrio.l. Th.^ burnt bri.-k f.innd (iO 
f.'.'t deep in the ^'ilo alliivinm, indicates an anti.pilly of JO.nOO var*; 
an.ith.'r fraL'inenl, at T'.'feetfTlv.'s.lO.ooo years. A hinnan sk.deton foiin.l at 
a .l.'pth of Irt f.'et, below four buried f.ir.'sts snpcrpos.'il n))on I'neh .th.^r, 
lixs h.'.'n ralculat.'d by Dr. Dnwler t.) Iiav.> an anti.piity of .->0,0:m» \ .'ars. 
lint allthoso ('-(t i.mat.w pal.' b.'for.. tIi..so whi.di Kent's Cavern at 'I'or.iuav, 
l."jilnnah's. M.'ro th.' drip nf tho stala-^'iiiit.n^ tho chief fii'tnr of ourcon'i- 
))ulati..ii, tjivin..,' ua an upper flo.ir which ".Uviiles tho ndi.'s nf tho huttwo 
or thre.! thoiisan.I y.'urs from a d. -posit fnllof tlm bonos of extin.'t mamma- 
lia, many of which like th.' reinil.>.>r, mammoth an.I tclutton, indi.-ato an 
arctio cliniat.', nanuM cut in this stala;?iviit,o moro than 200 voars a;,'.) aro 
still l."riblo; in oth.-r words, wh.^ro th.) stalaj^'mito is 12 fe.'t tlii.'k, ami tho 
drip still ropions, n.it moro than a hiindivth of a foot has b.'cii dcp.isitcd 
in two contiiri.s— a rat.> of .'; f,.,.t in loo.ooo years. Below tliis, h.)wover, wo 
have a thick, much old. r an.l ni.)r.! crystallino (i. e. m.iro slowly fornwl) 
Htala'jrniito ben.'ath which a\'nin, "in a soli.lbreo.-ia, very ililTer.'nL from tho 
cave (;arth,nndoiibteil worksof art hav.^b.'en foun.l." Mr. Wallaco as.suni.^s 
only 100,000 years for tho upper door, an.l 2.')O,O00 f.)r tho l.iwcr. ami a.lds 
l.")0.000 for tho int.'rrn.'diato ravo earth, by whi.'h ho arriv.'S at tho sum of 
lialf a inilli.)n as repr.'s.'ntinj? tho years that have probably elapsed sinco 
Hints of human workmanship were buried in the lowest depths of Koufn 
cavfM'n." 

Mr. Frank f'alvort, of tho Dardanelles, whose archaelocrical an.l peolon;iral 
attainments stand hi(.'h, has informed tho Lvmnt Il'i-nld that from tlio 
far-o of a clilT compos.'d of strata l)ol.)n','inar to tho Mio.'eno jieri.).! of tho 
Tertiary ago ho has extracted tho f ra^^Miiont of ahone of either a dinotlierium 
or Mastadon, engraved with the figure of a horn.^.l (juailruiiod ; from which 
ho concludes that the remarkable fact is thus estaliHslie.l beyond a question 
that the antifjuity of man la no longer to bo reckoned by thousands, but by 
millions of years. 

Regarding tho Tost riiocenc sknll lately discovorod, it is admitted liyProf. 
Huxley to be a " fair human skull, which might have bolong.Ml to a phil.iso- 
))hor, or contained the thoughtless brains of a savage." Thos.; flinty facta 
b.iar rather hard on tho evolution theory of Darwin, and ceitainly' go to 
show that if the human race have been evolved from ajies ami monkeys, 
acconling to liis account, f)ur ancestors must have lived in such "good.oiJ 
times" that the ndationship must bo very distant indood. 

Orkux of Mvttku.— "That substances or matters like those on tho earth 
wore produood liy tho sun fr.Mn its atmosplieros, is afflrm.nl Ijy all wh.) think 
that there aro pcrjietual intermediations from tho first to the'last : an.l that 
iiothiftg can exist but from a prior self, and at length from tlio First : and 
tho First is the sun of the spiritual world, and tho first of that sun is God- 
inan, or tho Loud. Now as the atmospheres arc the prior things by which 
that Bun jiro'ients itself in ultiniates, and as these prior things continually 
decrease in acti\ ity and expansion; to ultimatos, it follows that when their 
activity and exiiansion coaso in ultimatos, thoy become substances and Mmtters 
like those on the earth ; which retain fr.mi the atmospheres, whence they orig- 
inated, an effort and endeavor to produce uses. Those who do not conceive 
tho creation of the universe and all tilings therein, by continual mediations 
from tho First, cannot but build unconnoct.Kl hypothesis disjointetl from their 
raiisos, which, when examine.l bv a mind that looks interiorly into things, 
appear not like houses l)Ut llko heaps of rulibisli. 

The origin of earths, treated of above, may show, that In tho •ul^tancoa 



<u 



APVRNDIX TO THE ARTIZANS* GUIDE 



ri'id iiiiittci-.-! oT wliii'li tlK^y coji-iist, thoro is 7iothin,ir of tho Divine in itself, liiit 
that they are deprived of all that in Divine itself ; beinj; as was then said, the 
ends and torniinations o." tho atmospheres, whose heat has ended in Cold, 
thc'r lijjiht in darkness, and their activity in .inertness; but still they have 
hrouf-'ht with them, by continuation from tho substance of the spiritual sun, 
that which wa^ there from tho Divine, which was a sphere surroundint; CriMl- 
nian or tho LoilO ; fromtliis sphere by continiiationfrom tho sun, proceodod 
by means of the atmosphoros, the substance and matters of which the earthn 
consist. 

Ev(>ry one who thinks from clear reason, sees that tho universe is not 
oreatiKl from vothimj, because ho sees that It is imposaiblo for anythintj to 
1)0 niailo out of nothinf?, for nothing is nothing, and to make anytiiiiig out 
fif nothing is a con'triwliction, and a contradiction is contrary to tho light of 
truth whii^h is from tlio Divine wisdom; and whatever is not frc:r the 
Divino wisdom is not from tlie Divine Omii:>otcnce." Tn nnother i:!-..."c he 
writ<'s, "Since tho su))sistenco of all things of nature is fiom the aun, it 
follows that tho existence of all things is so too." 

Tho above were singular statements to jmt forth during Rwcdenborg's day, 
when it was almost universally accepted as a truth that the world was 
created out of nothing, in the space of six days, about 6000 years ago. But 
since that time science Jias abundantly demo::;:trated tho truth of what he 
taught, and this so clearly, that at this da.v no intelligent man can be found 
who will deny that this planet derived its origin from tho sun, and this at 
a i)erifMl of time so inconceivably remote, that tho capacity of the human 
mind fails to gi-asp tho immensity of its duration. 

" Tlio globe in tho first state in which the imagination can venture to con- 
sider it" says Sir H. Davy, "appears to have boon a lluid mass, with an 
immense atmosj)here, revolving in space around the sun. By its cooling, a 
l)ortion of its atmosphere was probably condensed into water, wluch occupied 
a portion of its surface. In this state, no forms of life such as now belong 
to our system, could have intvibitod it. Tnc crystiiilino rocks, or as they 
aro called by geologists, the primary rocks, (granite) which contain no 
vestiges of a former order of things, were the result of the first consolida- 
tion on its surface. Upon the further cooling, the water which more or less 
had covered it, contracted ; depositions took jilace ; shell fish and coral in- 
sects were created, and began their laoors. Islamli appeared in the midst of 
the ocean, raised from the deep by the jirodttctive eiur^iies of millions of Zoophiles. 
These islands became covercl with vegetables fitted to boar a high temi)era- 
turo, such as palms, and various si)ecies of jjlants, similar to those which now 
exist in the hottest parts of the world. The submarine rocks of these new 
ff)nriations of land become covered with acjuatic vegetables, on which various 
species of shell-fish, and common fishes found their nourishment. As tlie 
tenijjerature of the globe became lower, sixjcies of tho oviparous reptiles 
ai)pear to have ))een created to inhabit it, and the turtle, crocodiles, and 
vari(ms gigantic animals of the .Saurian (lizard) kinds seem to havo haunted 
the liays ami water? of tho primitive lands. Hut in this state of things, 
there ajipears to havo been no order of events similar to tho present. Im- 
mense volcanic explosions seem to have taken i)lace, accomiianied by eleva- 
tions and depressions of the surface of the globe, jiroducing mountains, and 
causing new and extensive depositions from tho primitive ocean. Theremains 
of living beings, plants, fishes, birds and oviparous reptiles are found in tlie 
strata of rocks which are the monu.nents and evidences of these changes 
When these revolutions became less freipient, and tho globe became still 
more cooh^d, and inequalities of t(miix;rature were established by moans of 
the mountain chains, more perfect animals became its inhabit»\nts, such us 
the Mammoth, Megalonix, Megatherium, and gigantic hyena, many of which 
have become extinct. Five successive races of plants, and four successirernns 
of animals, appear to have been created, and swept away by the physical revolu- 
tions of the (jlobe, before the si/stem of thinrjs became so jyermanent as to ft the 
%rovld for MAN." The various strata of the earth ajipoar to have been depos- 
ited by the action of water, iind in reference to this we quote from I'rof. 
Agassiz, " that if the stHliment from all the rivers in the world were spread 
e(iually over the ocean, it would require a tliousand years to raiss its bottom 
a single foot ; or about 1,000,000 of years to £orni a mass equal t^> the fos- 
siliferous rocks ; and if insteivtl of nn'rely the jiresent extent of the sea wo 



APPENDIX To Tin- ARTIZANS' OUIDE. 



C) 



itself, 1)1 it 
m isaid, the 
ed ill Cold, 
1 they have 
liritualsuii, 
indini,' Ood- 
i, proceeded 
1 the earthrf 

rcrse is not 
ai\ythintj to 
nvthiiif,' out 
the llK'htot 
,t frcrr the 
icr I'-WO ho 
the sun, it 

mborp's day, 
3 world wan 
rs ago. But 

of what ho 
can be found 
, and this at 

the human 

mtnro to con- 
lass, with an 
its coolinp, a 
liich occupied 
,s now belont; 
Ka, or as they 
I contain no 
irst cons()li4a- 
h more or less 
and coral in- 
n the midst of 
IS of Zoophiles. 
high teiupora- 
Dse which now 
3 of those n(!W 
which various 
nent. As the 
arous reptiles* 
roco<iiles, and 
have haunted 
ate of thin^'s, 
present, lui- 
inicd by eleva- 
iionntains, and 
II. The remains 
re found in the 
,heBO chanjres. 
> became still 
d by means of 
itttnta, such as 
many of which 

physical rerolu- 
eHt as to ft the 
ive been depos- 
otc from ITof. 
■Id were spread 
■ais« its bottom 
lual U^ the fos- 
)f the sea wo 



inrlndc the whole snrf.'U'o of the fflnlic in siirh ei^tinidte, the tinio iivniir d 
ll:u^l. be exlriided to li"),(MP(i.()()(» of yi'iirs. Tin* foK«ilitVniiis .strata have boon 
l^tinlll^l(l III lie ci'^liL miles in tliiekni'ss," rroiu the ahovo it would seoiii 
llmt tirieen niiliion years iiavo been requiivd to proihice tlu! strata thnt 
hiive boon formed since the dry land apjieared, and the herb lirst grew Upuii 
the earth. 

No man can estimate the time ro'iuired to cool llio eruptof tho earth snf- 
licieiitly to achiiit of ilie trrowth of vegetation, and even now, from recent 
exiioriiiients niadt! at Crenzot in France, it has been demonstrated tl. at the 
iiiirriial heat of the earth />() nn'les from the snrliice, is 4, coo" nn intensity 
nicire tliaii snfllcient to mi'lt j)latiniim and fuse tli(! Imrdest rocks,. Th(j 
falls of Niagara were at one tinn' iire(i))itated into an ocean oxistint* tiear 
tlu! foot of (jiu'enstdwn heights, and must liave taken at least !i(l.()0() years 
to ent tlic'ir way through seven miles of rock back to tlieir present iiosition, 
and the retregrado movement is still going on, sldwly but surely, everyday. 
Tliat the ocean existed at one time in the vicinity of Niagara is evident 
frmn many )..-oofs, from this among others, that thcskelcton of .a whalowas 
dug nil in tliat migiilidrhuod hut a few yiars ago. 

A vohano now extinct, near JNIoiint li'dvr in the interior of France, 
endtted a tlow of lava at a coniiiaratively recent period, whiih fillod iij) tin' 
ehaniud of a river in its course. The water ro^-e, jiassing oVer tlu! inipodi- 
ment in its course, and has up to this time ent a channel ;'i()feet dei'pthrouj^l: 
the lava lied. From the r(-mains of an old Koman bridge known to liavO 
been constructed about '2000 years ago. it ai'ijears that the erosion of the 
water into the lava has bei'ii consiilerably less tlian six inches during that; 
liericid, which would indicate that it lias renuired over L'oo.ooo jearstociit 
the ('haniud to its jiresent deptli of oofeet! 

Myriads of ages have elajised while the rushing waters have b(>en cutting 
out tlios(i tn'niendous ravines in Miehard roi k, known as the Canyons <pf 
Mexico, 'Cixas, < '(dorai)o and tlie JUicky Aloiintains. 'J'he great Canyon of 
the Colorado river is L'lis miles long, and tjie sides riseiieriicnilicularly above 
the water to a hei^jlit of r.t.'oo or (ilKIO fet't. 

As justly oliserved by the learned and judicious Dr. P.ayley of London, 
'Mixology speaks as loudly as any other seience of creation, |)y tho jiower 
fpf the liilinite Creator. Cieoiogy leads us froni tlie living, lilooniinu' surl'aeo 
of the world on wlihh wtp stand, tlirou!.'li miles iiiion miles (if strata, formed 
lime after lime, through inealeiilable ages, but always condiiets us to a be- 
ginning. I'lioiigh we pass through the tertiary strata, and wd notice through 
all the beils of pleistocene, plioecni' and eocene, tli(! indications of ever-vary- 
ing life, through the seventeen hundred feet deei) of sands, clays, crags, 
the results of age* of creative energy, yet during the s<'condary formations, 
they wereiiot. Through the cretaceous wealden, and <ioliticdeiiosits. again, 
crowded witli the fossil remains of life, forming three or four thousand feet 
i.liick of strata, all of which were once swarming with living b<'inirs, yet 
tliere was a time, however remote, when they were not. And. jiass we 
lower still, through the lower oolites, the lias and the triassi<' lieds of th<! 
Mi'so/oic. formations, or throngli the SO.OOO feet of the niagnesian limestone, 
tlie coal nieasiin's, and the jievonian and .^iliirian deposits, not withstanding 
we iirc! eoiidneted to jieriods incoiieeivably remote, yet the mind sees a?* 
elearly as it disicrns it of tin? dai'-y of to-dav — all these Ik-jmii to lie, and in 
ilii'ir beginning, and through all their (liaiitris they are tlie resnitsof the 
Almighty eiieivies of that Adorable One " liy whom all things have been 
made that are made." 

ON C<)Ulii;si'(iNl>i;N<'i;s.—"Tt has been given 7ne to know from much e\pcri- 
iMt e that in the natural wiirld, and in its three kr.iploms, there in 7iot the 
siKillest thing wliieli does not represent something in the spiritual world, ov 
uhichha.-- not soiiieihing there to wliiili it correiionils. Monover. nothing 
i - ever given in the created world, wliieli has not .'orresponilenei- \v ill' thingii 
existing in lh( soiritiial world, and w liii I' <lees not liiisin it^ own manner, 

I •|ireseiit Kometllilij; in the l,(tl!H'S KIM.DiM ; t luMiee is I Ic exislenet :UU' 
Mibsisleiict' ol all tilings. If man knew how the ;e thinvsiire, \h> would novel 
:iltriiiute all things to nature, iisis ii*ii:illy done. I will, liip\\e\cr. illnstrato 
\' li;it is the nature, (if the c(prres|piindenee |p<'tween spiritual things and natu* 

111. IpJ some exaill|lles. 

I'he animals uf th'^ eartli, in general, correspond to .illeelioM'-, thf: tame antl 



(it; 



Al'l'ENDIX OF THE ARTIZANS' UUllii:. 



nscfiil aiiiiiiiils corrcsiioiKliiv^ to s^rooil nlTccUoiis, iUid tlii< licrco aiid ii;('lpss kind J 
tot'vil alTcctioiis. In particular, oxen and l)iill(K'ks corrcsiinnd to llic nlVcc- 
tioiis of llu' iiafnral mind ; sliccji and land is to the all'cctions of tlic Bjiiritiial 
mind ; and hirds or win^'ccl crfatm-fs. according to tlicirspeciea, corrosiiond to 
tlu( iiitclli'ctnal facnil ics and and rxcrcisi's of liotli minds. Itonoo It is tlint 
various animal?J, as oxen, hnllocks, rams, sheep, slie-^roats. lie-goats, and liiaic 
and teinale lambs, also |iiu,'eoiis and rioves. wen? empioyoil in tlie ]srai'liti>h 
• hiinli. wliieliwas a npreseiitativc! one, for lioly ns<'s, it lieinj^'of tlieiii tliatllie 
Kacriliecsaml burnt olVeriiif.'S''oiisiste(l ; for when so(Mnployed,they correspond 
to certain spiritual thintrs and wern nndorstood in heaven accordiiif,' to theli' 
oorresiiotidcnces. Animals, also, accordin^r to their genera and species, actu- 
ally are, alt'ections ; tho reaso:. of which is becauHO they live ; and nothing can 
liavo life. (;xceiit from affection, rnd according to it. llcncc, likewise, it is 
Ihattn'ery animal jiossessc's an innate knowledge accordiiig to tlie alTection of 
its lif(!. Man, too, as to his natural man, in like th(! animals, wherofore, al:!o, 
it isnsnal to (H)iiiiiare liini to them in common discourse. Tlmsa man of mild 
disposition is called a sheoj) or a lamb ; a man of roiigli or fierce temiieri-- 
called a bear or a wolf; acrafty i)erson isteiMnedafoxoraserjient ; and so in 
other instanceft, A garden in general corresjionds tohoaven asto intelligi'iice 
and wisdom ; wherefore lioaven is called in t:ie Word the garden of (!oi), and 
jiaradise.and isalsonameil by man the heavenly jiaradise. Trees, according to 
their species, corresj)ond to perce))tionsandknowledgesof good and truth, from 
whiidiare iirocnred intcdligonce and wisdom, and li(!nc(Mt is that, in the Word, 
trees are so often mentioiu'il.and heaven, the church, and man are coinpare<l to 
them, as to tlievine, the olive? tree, the cedar, and others; and good works are 
com iiared to fruits. 'I'Ik! various kinds of food, also, which arc ol)taiued from 
them, (wpi.'cially those from grain, coiTi'spond to affections of good and truth, 
becaus(!thesi! sustain man's sjiiritual life, as earthly foodffustains his natural I ill'. 
Uen<'i' liread, in gen(!ral. corresponds to tho alfectioji of all good, because it sup- 
ports lifiilietter than other aliments, and because l)yl)r(>tul isna an t al 1 food what- 
ever. On accountoft'iis correspondence, also, the IiOltJ)calls Himself the bread 
of life ; and for tlie Bame reason loaves were i)la(!ed upon tlu; table In the taberna- 
«-le and called theshew-brcad ; and hence, likewise, all the di vim; worship per- 
formed by sacrifices and burnt offerings were called bread. On account, also, nf 
this correspondence, the most holy solemnity of worshij) in the Christian church 
is the holy supp< r, the elnmeiits used in which are bread and wine." 

■\Ve will SCO a surpassing beauty shining through tho literal sense of (he 
Word when once we admit the graml iirincijile according to which the wlmli? 
ol it is written. Tiauudy. that init there is not emjiloyed a single nam(>, won! 
symbol or siiiiilitu<1e, but what is niiule use of to denote and figniiy corres- 
ponding interior or spiritual things. Hence good and truth, or love and 
wi.-dom are meant auil signified when corresi)onding good and useful things ans 
jiuaitioned, such as the sun and moon, tire, heat, and light, rain and dew, eiiriU 
and seas, wells and siirings of water, flesh and l)lood, breiul, corn, wine, oil, 
7iiilk, honey, gold, silver, brass, iron, rocks, stones, precious stones, jjcarls nf 
great jirii-e, garments, treasure hid in a field, kc. 

In liko maiiner, good men are called angels, sheep, lambs, and iTi generiil 
all nsefiil animals and biros, frees of righteousiKH^s, fruitful vines,cedars, oak , 
palm, olive, bay and fir trees, good S(!ed, fruitful fields, watered gardens, &c. 
I'^ir the same reason wicked men arc called devils, serpents, scorl)i(lll^:, 
adders, a generation of vip(>rs, dragons, leopards, roaring lions, swine, conim- 
ranfs, owls, ravens, thorns, thistles, brambles, tares, overllowlng floods, and 
other hurtful and malignant things in nature. 

Itis written of the Word Incarnate, that" without aparable spake He not 
unto them." and as all that He sjiako proceeded from the inmost Divine, or 
the I'^ather in Him, it is manifest that the whole of the Word, inasmuch as 
it ])roceerls from Him alone, must be spiritually understood, according to His 
own saying, "tho words! speak unto yoti they are sjiirit and they aiH? life" 
It isfroin this its divine origin that the Word is as it were alive, each 
('\-|iression involving infinite and ineffable things, and this in such inexpressi- 
ble measure and vari(>ty that it may be comiiareil to an inexhaustable gold 
mine which is continually yielding u)) its treasures fo reward the exjilorrr. 
To the heavenly mind it is heavenly food, for it isby every word that proceed- 
<'tli out of the mouth of the liOKi) that man doth live." Dent. viii. ;i. M;itl. 
iv 4. .Such is nourishment of -^iiirif ual life. 






APPENDIX OV THE AFlTlZANs' GUIDH." 



07 



I'losskiiiilJ 

I lie alVcf- 
(> sinritiial 
rcsiioml b) 
' it is tli;il 
, iiiiil ilmli' 

]sr:ictiii-li 
Mil tliattlii' 
<'()rr('si)o)iii 
iig to tluiii' 
lei.'ies, actu- 

lothin^t <'f*'^ 
LOwistN it is 
alTci'tion of. 
•oforo, also, 
nail of mild 
'o tomiicr i*-' 

; anil so in 
intollit,'t'nci! 
of (loi), ami 
xccorilins-'' to 
llvntli.t'roni 
in tlic Word, 
conipari'il to 
«l works arc! 
)taino(l frniu 
xl and trntli, 
s natural life. 
;causo it su]!- 
xU food what ■ 
self the lir(>ad 
1 the taborna- 
iWorshijilMT- 
■oiint.also. nf 

istian chunk 

sonso of I ho 

•h tlu! whole 

LMianic, word 

,'niiy corrr-- 

or love and 

cfuUliini^saro 

lUddcw.i'iirth 

irn, wine, oil. 

)n(!s, pearls of 

ind in f,'oni'riii 
s, cedars, oak ■, 
I jrardens. &e. 
its, scori>iiins, 
swine, cornin- 
ng floods, and 

spake lie not 
lost Divine, or 
1, inasmuch as 

cordins^ *^"!'',^ 
they are life." 
re alive, each 
neh inexpressi- 
haustahle s-'old 
•d the exidorer. 

d tliat proe 1- 

t. viii. :t. Matt. 



TiiK n.\vsurciu:ATr(i\ Piuxil-'v S:\-Si'ati;s of .Ar.vx'sTlKCKNi'.uATroN - 
*' Tlu! six days, or times, whicii are so many Kuccesi^ivc states of the rtyi'iwra' 
tioii of man, are in (.'eneral as follows : — 

The KUisT state is that which in'eeeiles. inchnlinrr hoth the state of infancy, 
and th(( state itnmediately pre( cdin^ reseneration. TJiis is c.alled vacuity^ 
emptiness and darkness; and the ijrst motion, which is tiie mercy of tha 
Loi{I),istlie Sjiiritof Con niovini,' ujion the faces <if the waters. 

Tlie Sl'iroNi) state is when a division takes iilace netween these thin f-'fi 
which ar(> of tlie I.oun .and sncli as are projicr to man. The thing's whieli 
are of tin; F^oitD .are called in tlu' Word remiiins, and are here i)rincipally 
-th(! knowled^'esof faith, which man has leariud from infancy, and wliich aro 
stored u]i, and are not manifested till he comes into this state. This stato 
at the jiresontday seldom exists without temptation, misfortune or sorrow, hy 
which the tiling's appertaining' to tlie hody a!id to the world, that is, such as 
fonn tlie proitrmm or i^ef/hood of man, are hrou^'ht into a state of ([uiesccnce, 
and as It were of dc^ath. 'I'hus the thing's wliich lielong to the external man, 
are sejiarated from those which lielonj? to the internal. In th(> internal man 
are the remains, stored n;i by the r>ord till this time, and for this ))urpf>se, 

Tlie Tllllil) stat(- is tiiat of repi^ntance, in whi(di the rcLreneratin^ subject, 
from th(> internal man, beirinstodisconrse jiiously and devoutly, and to iloj.'oo(l 
actions, like works of charity, but which nevertheless ar(> inanimate, becaiiso 
they an- su))|)osed tooriirinalc in hiniscdf. Tliese fro(Hl actions are calleil the 
tender .1,'rass and also the herb yieldinfj^ seed, and afterwards the tree bearing 
fruit. 

The Fourth state is wlien man becomes alTected with love, and illumined 
liy faith. He indeed jireviously (liscotirsed piously, and )>ro(luced the fruits 
of good actions ; but he did .so in cons<'(|uence of tlu! temptation and straitness 
under which he labored, and not from a jirinciplo of faith and charity ; 
wlutreforo faith and charity are now enkindled in his internal man, and are 
calle<l two lights(or linninaries), 

Th(> ilKTll stat(> is wlien man diseonrses frr)m a principle of faith, and 
thiM-eby conlinns hims(df in truth and goodness: the ...lUgs then produced by 
him areaniinat(;d, and are called the fishes of the sea and Mu! binls of tlie air. 
The siX'I'H state is when from a iirinciiile of faith and thence of love ho 
speaks what is true, and dr.os what is good ; th<! things which he t\nm j)r(,- 
duces are<-alli'd the living soul and the beast. And because he then ))i"_rius 
to act from a ))rincipl(! of lov(! as well as of faith, he becomes a siiiritual 
man, and is calletl .an imago. His siiirltual life is didighted and sustained l)y 
such things as relate to knowhvlges resi)e<'ting faith, audtoworksof charity, 
which are callc'd his meat ; and liis natural lift; is (lelighted by sutdi thingrt 
as lieloiig to tlie body and tin; senses; from whence a combat or strugglo 
arises until love gains the dominion and lu: becomes a coli>stial man. 

They who aro regen(>rating tlo not all arrive at this state Th<' greatest 
part at this day, attain to the first st.at(! ; some only to the second ; others to 
the thiril, fourth, and fifth ; fcnv to thi; sixth ; and warcely any to the 
sovonth." 

The fon'going is a part of Swedenborg's exjilication of the first cliajiter of 
<!enesis, and the reader is referri'd to the 1st. Vol. of his Anana forthe Si-rip- 
tnre (iroofs and detailed explanation, as they are necessarily omitti'd in this 
jiliu-e for want of spac<>. Many modem thetdotrians are afraid toenteronan 
interpret.ation of this chapter on account of its alleged conllii't with th > 
known facts of science, but the theology that could be endangered by such 
an investigixtion is worthy of no m.an's accepUince. Others, again, have 
othhI as far on the other si<le. I'rofessors .lowett, P.ailen I'ow(dl. the Rev 
Alessrs. Temide, (ioodwin, Wilson, and otlier eminentclergymen of the church 
of Knsiland, who have litrnred as the authors of the "Tlie Kssaysand Reviews," 
together with I$i.sliop Colenso, all men of great scieiitilic at^taiumeiits, have 
msule many rash comments and wild avenneuts on this subject. Acting on 
the rule that you must "interpret the Hible as you would any other book," 
one of thes<f gentlemen writes as follows ; " We have examineil it and liiid it 
is not correct in its science. Its astronomy is .lewish. not philosoiihical, 
and as to its geology th.at is cert.ainly not correct. * Its <-hronolo;_'y is faulty, 
tli(! e.-irth is much older than the I'.ible m.akcs it. and the account of the uni- 
versal delude cannot be m;ule to harmonizi^ w itli the fa"ts of ancient history 
Nations haveexisti'd in continuity from periods long before tlie time tixccj 



6B 



AypKNDIX wF THE AIITIZAXS' OUIDI!. 



a': til at of the ilcln'rc Sdinc nf I'm iiyraniiil'? worn niiili)iil)ti'illy in oxistoiiort 
lipiiL,' bi'fnrc th(! tiiiu! (if the (l('lii','c, iiml iiltlmiiirli (,'cii|iil'V ^.'ivcs cvidpiKM-s of 

liuiidrcils of local Hoods, and of tlu! ^rradiial cliaM^'c of tlic < iii's lied, au'aiu 

iiiid aj^'ain, yet it lends no supiMirt to tJu" acrount of a conti'niiiorani'ouH cov- 
ering of the wliolo earth at tlio wiino time, with many niili-. dcoi) of watiT , 
liesidor; many thinyrs In the Tiihle woni pncrik', trivial, nnworthy u{ (!on. £ 
dont spo why tho Jewish history is inori! a Divino history than that of tho 
groat nations of the earth, or in fact than any other." 

.Most assuredly this ia jrivin^' us a stone when wo ar(> askinf; for hreal. If 
a man desires enlijjhtenmentre!,'ai*din.[,'t ho fonuation of theiiriniary orstratilied 
rocks, tlio coal measures, minerals, fossils, jilants. or to solve the complex 
])rol)lems of astronomy reijanlin^^ tho nature, moveinoiits and(li«tan<'es of tho 
bodies helijtjvin!-^ to tlio solar or hiellar syslcMns, it is an absolute certainty 
that he would iiev(>r think of consultiii)^' (leiiesis or any other |nirt of the 
inspirecl volume. It may be manifest to every man that whatever is nnealed 
liy the sjiirit of ({ud must besiiiritually understood, iind further, it is e(iiially 
certain, that those thing's for th(> dis<-overy of which ni;iii has f.aculties 
s|ieeia".ly iirovided. ari' not lit objects f)f a Divinc! rovelatif)ii, conseiiuently 
if follows, that by the descrii>tion intleiiesiswe an; by nonieans to unclerstaml 
th(' <'i-eatioii of the terra(iiieous frlobe, 'I'ho creation descrii.ed in (lenosis is 
one ineomiiarably more wonderful than the creation af a worlil. beitij.r iKitliini,' 
less than the narration, in a heavenly style, by means of natural symlmls 
and similitudes, of the \arious 8!.at,'es af that marvelluiis and mysterious 
Divine work wh<>ri'by man is made a new creature. 

In the Divine idea, to crcale, to/onii, to )iMki', Kijjnifies to reprenerate, and 
of this creation wo tind fre(iuent mention in tho AVord, but very little of any 
other 'J'hus in the Psiilms, " Thou sendest forth thy spirit tliey are rri'aled." 
civ. :!0. " The i)i'oi)lo which sliall be crcdfi'd shall jiraihO the I.oiiK." eii. IS. 
" <T(<if(' in me a clean heart, () Ood," 11. 10 and in Isaiah. "This jieople 
liave I lariitiil for myself that they may shew forth my praise" xliii. 21. 
I have )»nt my words in thy mouth. — that I may plant Vw heaveiH. and lay 
tliefouiidationof the earth and s.ay unto Zion, Thou art my peoi)le"li.l(!. ''I'lvery 
Olio that is called by my name, I hav« rrctiteil him ; I have/ejvyici/ hiiii ; yea, 
I have 'iiiiiili' him" xliii. 7. To bo called by the LoHU's name, is to liavi; tho 
Ldiiu'S )iii/iiri' iiniilanted in the heart. 

Unref^eneraie man is described in .Jeremiah in nearly the sani(> terms as in 
Ofiiesis, "1 beheld the earth, and lo, it was without form [oniiity] and void, 
and tho lieavens, and they had no li^'ht," iv. '2:i and in David, '"J'hey 
walk on in darkness, all tho foundations of the earth are out tif course"' 
Ixxxii r> '"TluM'.arth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved," Ixxxv I! 
ami inlsai.ah, "The earth is clean dissolved, the earth ismoved exceed! iifrly." 
"xiv 1!) Head th(! whole chapter, At,'aiu irs Hatrtrai. " I will shake tho hea- 
VTiis and the i^arth. and thesea, and the dry land, and I will shak(! all nations, 
rvnd th(! Desire of all nations shall come,'' ii. (1.7. Tho ruin of a soul or of 
.■ church is her 'ch'arly symbol izeil by the ruin of a world, and darkness exists 
'■^ ■111 the fac(! of tho deep" when thi> mind of man is in tliisstat'>. Tiie jieoplo 
• •' walk in darkless see a fi;reat light when i-hey receive and obey the truth 
V ,s juirity 

>■. •-! faces of the waters over which the .Spirit fif Tiod moves, consists of 
a'l .iK-* knowledj^'o of trood and truth iiii)planted In the niiiiil from infancy lo 
'. . •• ' )d,embracin^r what Ik; may have learnt from the Word or fr m ti'achers, 
st^ty,- of lovetowai'ds jiarents or fri(!nds, or of innocence from inlancy, mercy 
to fi'i tioor, love tiAvards iieiKlihors, and every other state of trood and truth 
},'a. r: •ednp in the memory or internal man. It is only by K^-'utly broodint? 
ov 3» iioviui,' and acliuK on. in, and tliroiiKli these nimains of j^oml and truth 
tl • tlio Loud llnally regenerates man, 

uifrht conies into existence on tho first day, Li^dit si rnifies knowliHljjfo. day 
pi^?nifies state. Tho soul has a succession of states eorns|)ondiii!-' to the ilays 
and andnii,'hts in nature. The Divine Mercy always insinuatesmildly. always 
leids man trently, never forces, l)Ut inclines man in freedom. It says. "Dot 
there be liirht," and when in theexercise of that im]iarted freedom the trustiiij^ 
rOiild of (loll turns for Illumination and instriietioi. to his Heavenly l-'ather, 
it can be truly said " And there was li^rlit." 

The work of the .simml day or state has refereic<'c to irntrr. Water is the 
symbol of irntli, " Kxcepta nuiii be born of.(r(t/<»Miid of the JSjiirit hecaiiiiot 



APPENDIX OF THE AllTIZAN.s' UUIDE. 



09 



•fnisi«ts 'if 
iiil'aiit'.v ti> 

II It'lU'hlM-H, 

•\ , lucrcy 

aiul trutli 

,1(h1!X(\ ilay 
i,<) tlic tliiyw 
lly, aUviiys' 

he trustiuf,' 
nly Kiithor, 

'at or IS tho 
ilhociiuiiot 



leec the kinftdom of Gtxl," John ill ft, BiKniflcs lo ho bom ot tiutli and to 
live a life accoriling to it. "Ho, every otic that tliirstotli. coiiio jo to tho 
maters," ha. Iv. 1 Isacall addressed to all thiistiiiKfor triitli. and ikjI natural 
■water. The internal man i« tlietirniaiaent. Ttie knowledges in the internal 
man is the waters above the ILi-nianicnt and tlie scientitics of tiic natnrai 
man are the waters l)elow tlte flnnamont, Tli.J M'amd utage if to distint,'«isn 
between the truth relating to UoD and heavenly thinj^s, anu auty towaraa 
liuan and a good life on earth 

Tlio work of tho lhirdili\,y is to i)rcxUice tlio drygiound, or earth and grass, 
iherbs, fruit trees, &e., denoting the soul's progres.-Aioii in tlie fruits ot good- 
iness, charity, and loving kindness, and doing good rrojn delight in truth The 
iseed falls into good ground and brings forth fruit. "Tliu nood ground is an 
Ihonest and good heart," Luko viii. l.'i Ttiis Divine work is carried on 
gra<lually according to a truly Divine order, not Ity fits and utarts. or by 
getting perfect iu a twinkling, as some rashly ainrm. The Canaanites were 
driven out from before Iprael little by little, to Bymb()li/.u tho manner in 
iWhich evils are cxiKjllcd from tlie heart during rtigeneration In sitiritual 
as in natural things, "it is first tho bkide then the car, and afterwards the 
good corn in tlie ear." Mark iv 2h. Good men who arrive at this state are 
Btyledin Isaiah " Trees of righteousness, tiio planting of Atiovah." Ixi. ',i. 

This sublime narrative can never bo understood m a literal sense, for the 
reason that day and night, water, ligiit, grass, fruit trees, &e . conid not as 
yet exist owing to tho absenc-eof tlic.s in. Tlie terribk! desolation over the 
face of nature would have rivalled that of au arctic winter with its universal 
ireign of ice 

•By the creation of tho sun moon and stars on the fourth day is signified a 

iBtate of progression in the knowledge and e.\iieri(Mire (»f the love of (ioD in 

jthe heart, and faith in the intellect, togetiier with alioundiug knowledges (j£ 

itnith. The man feelsthat tho Louu is tiio Sun of the eternal world, a "Siin 

land shield," a "Sun of llighte(iusness," the emanation of whoso heat is 

iDivinc love and the elTiilgence of whose light is Divine truth. In this state 

Ihe arises and shines, for his light has come, and the glory of tlie Loui) has 

risen ujion him His aspirations are Heavenward.. He feels the supremo 

iljlessedness of doing gootl, and knowing truth Faith shines like a moon in 

the lower states of the soul reprcs<^nted by evening, when love declines in 

the varied states of spiritual life Winter symbolizes a state of the soul when 

love is absent (,iii Lord says "Tray ye that ymir flight be not in the 

\tmnti'r, for in those days shall be alllietion," ilark xii K, !i t'lujht signifies 

'the last time or the time of one's death, iriiitiT signifies a state destitute of 

love- d(iy.s of qlffiction signifies man's iniserablo state in the otlier life. 

On the Ji/th day the water brings ftirth every living thing that movctli, 
ftiid every winge<i bird after his kind AVater is tiie emblem of truth and 
bringsforth abundantly when the soul isfuU of lo\e. Tlie scientific activities 
of a heavenly mind rejoicing in tho truth are the fish of the holy waters 
[Ezek xlvii 10] Amind in rational order is likea clear, calm, and placid lake 
or river swarming with fish. Birds rei)reseiit things rational. s)iiritiial and 
intellectual. He who draws wistlom from (loi) is like a bird soaring aloft, 
enjoying a cleai and extensive view "They mount uj) with wings as eagles," 
ftc, Isaiah Ix 31, Birds of night, as bats and owls, represent those who have 
no inclination for truth 

Although in this first chapter, birds and every living thing that nioveth 
derive then origin from the water on the fifth day in the second chajiter 
[vcr. lf».] they are described as being made out '. i the ground by .TKlloVAlf 
God on the seventh day, ilenoting man's state wluni all inward conllict with 
sin and self has ceased, for then the jiurest alTections of love come direct 
from the heart, celestial i)ea<H! reigns and man is in I'aradise. Then indeed 
he is blessetl by JElloVAHGoi>,for this double name, with LORH, or Jkhovah 
first, signifies the Divine Love and Wisdom combined, the term JEIIOVAII 
having direct reference to the Divine Lovi; while the term (JoD mentioned 
throughout the first chajiter, signifies the Divine AVisdom. 

The formation of catth;, creeping things, and beasts of he earth on the 
A/.r^/i day, re)iresents a further ripening of the be.-^t afi'i-ctions of the heart, 
such as loving kindness, charity, obeilieiiee and innocencr. Regarding the 
H^Tiibolic meaning of animals, almost every page of the word t(!Stifies regaal. 
Wig iti • ■ ' 



!■■ 



^ 



70 



AITENUIX 10 Tllli AllTlZAJSS OUJDE. 



On thui (lay [the sixth], man is niii'lo in LIib imago an-^] likoiioH.-i <»f (Jor 
Tlic forniL'i' wlcps or stages wlto merely i)rei)aratory to thio ';reat, work Miu< 
IS not', a.-* llio snnjilc might Bay, merely a form in human Kliai)e, fur Riehatt, 
freiinently worw! than wild heasts. Tho iJlessei 'RiHloeuu'r called Jleroi) afox, 
and Jleeertamly knew tho proiKTnamo to axpi'css bis ■- havie'er Tha Divinii 
iilea o( a man is fidly defined in Jer, v. 1 and thers Wo -,ec it is ono who 
' «!xe< tJteth ludgnientaudheeketh tu« trnth '■" or ono who from an afl'eetion 
and love for thu truth, lives a lifu according to it U'lio ali.sene oi such 
from tiie earth is liily destritied in tho preeeding diaiatT, \er '_'.") ''I liehoki 
and lo, there was vo iiuiii, and all tho hirda of tholu'avens vver«» iLi^O.." 

As (jod regenerates niaii through tho iniiiistratmn of mgels, llo eayK, 
" 1/ t us nrakoman," bnt us this is ciTectcd Koley by Hit? own jnojjer jiower, 
it IS innnediately added in tho next verso. "So CoDereated num in Iiisown 
image,' and in chap, ii, V "So jKllovAiI (JoD formed man out <,l tho dust 
ot th;grounil " Tho Divine p.iin with His rational creatures ij -^vermoru to 
brin^ tl>cni up to "tlicnrasuro f a man that is of iin angel,' llev xxi 17 
when this is accompiished, Tlo can vu-w \\'\i work and prononnen it "very 
good," and cntoi" on tho rest mgiiilicd by tho sevciit/i day, for it is th" I-oitl) 
alono whc i Ights for man during temptation, and austaiua him dihntj tho 
oonlliet with tho powers oi darkness. 

ON T!IJi; DlVlNK ruoVlDKMCi: AKD TkI'ST IN TllR LouD. "'They whi. 
(>iit their trust in tli.^ LOKl> continually teeeivo good from him, for vvhut so- 
ever l)efa]ls tliem whither it appears a.-" prosperous or unitrosperous, is still 
g(jod, ior asamodiiim it conduees t". th<''ir eternal felicity ;, l)ut they who 
jiut their tnistin tln'mseivcs, contiimally imlueo evil upon themselves, for 
whatsiK'ver befalls them, ctlthough it ftt)pcarti as i)rosperous and hajjpy 18 
n(!verthelesacvil,an'7 I.-nc: ne U ait Jiuiii conduces to their eternal nnhaipi- 
iiess If you aro williiitj^to be Id ' f tho Divine I'rfividener, use i)ruden<M',ad 
a r.urvant and mini.;! r whc laithfuUy dispenses tho goods of Lis master; 
this prudenco id tho pound which wa«« given to tho ecrvants for trading, of 
wliich they shouP. friv;; an arcount, Matt xxv. 14-20. TliitJ id tho prudence 
with wliich tho Divin ' I'roviileiico acts as one." 

A Lli'J> OK CllAUirY Id A LlI'I'! OK rSKS, PTJLIi ov Dki-iohts,— " lu 
reference to I'SK it may bo observed. th"t they who aro in c:harity, that ir;, in 
lovo tovvards tho neighbor, which imparts o, living delight to their pleasure, 
look for tho iritition of no jdeasiire, excei)t in tho performanco of uses; for 
charity is .••. nothing unless it manifests itself in tho works of Cliarity, (-iiico 
it consists in exercise or ust?. llo who loves his neighbor as liiiin^'lf never 
lierccives the delight of charity except in its exercise, wherefore a. lilo of 
charity is a life of uses. fcJuch is tho lifo of tho universal heaven; for the 
LoUD's kingdom, being lj kingdom of mutual love, is a kingdom of iisci; ; 
lu'iieo every pleasure derived from charity receives its delight from use, and 
tho inorTOXiilled tho use, so mucii the greater is the delight; and hence the, 
angels receive hai)i)iness from tho Lokd according to the esseiu'o and 
quality of thousethey norform,, So"also it is wilhevery pleasure , for the more 
distinguished its use, bo much tho greater its delight." 

ON ruKDKSTINATloN. — "Bound reason dictates that all an; jrctlestined to 
heaven and iio ono to hell. — The end of creation is a heaven from the hiiinan 
race,— Every man wa3creat<'d that homighLcomo into heaven. — Tho Divine 
Lovocannotdo otherwiso than will this, and the Divine Wisdom cannot do 
otherwise than provide for it. Hence it is from the Divine Providence that 
every man can bo sivtHl, and that they aro saved who acknowledge (IimI and 
live welL Wan himself is in fault if ho is not Bivved. Any other pre<lestina- 
tion than to heaven is contrary to tho Divino Lovo AS'hich is infinite ; — also 
contrary to tho Divine Wistlom which is intlnite — Through Divino truths and 
Divino go<Kl9 as means, th'^ Divine Providence operate-s its end, which is tiio 
Kilvation of man ; fnr he who wills tho end. wills al-,o tho iiieiins. — 'J'hc njiera- 
tion of the Divine ]'rovid':nce for saving man commences from his birth, and 
lastsuntil the end of his life, and afterwards to eternity. That this may lie 
iiiiderstocMl, it is to be known, that the DoillJ sees Whatman is. and foresees 
what ho wills to be, thus what In; is to bi^ ; and the/r<('(/(;//t of hi.* trill, i-nnnut 
/k; /(iX-wi «/r(»//, that he may be man and thence immortal, as has been bcfuro 
shown in many i)laces ; wherefore the (,niu> foresees his state after death, 
and provides for it from his birth even to the end of his life ; with the evil lie 
l)rovides, by permitting and continually withdrawing from evils; but with 
the b'ood ho provides, by lea«.liiiij' lo bootl ; thus the Divine Providence is 



AVI^ENDIX XU Tllli AKTlZANo CIUIDE. 



71 



rnntinually ill tliO oiwratip'.i of MviiiK niai\, Imt tluTi; ciiniKit 1m, iinin^ wivcd 
thiiii nxc wtllxng to bo 8ivv(xl, anil tlicy are vvilliiig'to hv siivid wlio iukiiMW 
ledge God and aro led by Illin, and tlioy aro not willing? wlio do not iwknow- 
1 ■dgo tiou, uud load tlienitH-'lvcB. It is by inlluenci! from lull ili;it man dof;) 
ovil. and !;y intlucnco from the Lcmu that ho does phhI. ]5ut an man 
lu'llovoc thai', vhatuver ho docs, ho does from hinisulf thu consfqucm^o ir,, 
tliat tlio evil v/hioh ho doos adherer to him art his own It honou followH 
that tho cause of his own evil lies with man, and not at all with the l.ord. 
Evil as existing with man, ia hull, as existing with him, for whotlicr yoii 
Hiiy evil or hell, it amounts to tho samo thing. Now sinco tho causo of lii.- 
own evil lies with man himself, it follows that it is ho who casts himscir intc 
hell, and not tho LoKD, and so far is tho LoKU from leiuling man into hell 
that ho delivers from hell, ho far as tho mau does not will and love to abide 
in his own evil." 

In referenco to' creeds and doctrines too well know.i as l)cingat open wat 
with thu above Btateiuents, w> would say thai it is a healthy indication ol 
tho signs of tho times to find the Ai'w York JndepemLnt, in an article on 
" Iiumor.'J Theology," using tise foUowing language, "To teach men that 
GoDi"e being who has a perfect right to bring into tho world a creature 
with faculties impaired- witli no power to resist temptat jn, utterly nnabk' 
to -^o righb; powerless even to »epeiit of tho wrong which ho is fated to do, 
and ihen Bond to everlasting misery thi» lUulpless creatnro for the sin he 
coi:'j :iothelp committing— To teach such <. '^•yiMDO as this about (lod, is to 
inlli^u upon religion a terrible injury and to Muwert tho very foundation 
of :n;jrrJity„ To say that Odd may justly punish a man for the sins of hi. 
ancestors, that GOD dooc biamo us for what haiipeiied long before we were 
])orn, is to blasjiiiemo GOD, if there bo any fiiich thing as blasphemy To 
wiy tliat any rue-hdoctrine i? rlearly taught in the IJible, is to say that the 
Biblo clearly teai^lu^s a iiionstroiis lie. If there is one lliiiig which is aliMi- 
Intely certain to every ■iiinian being, it Is that he cannot be he'd respipiisihi.! 
for acts committed tliousunds ^f years ago, and that he cannot Ik; blamed fot 
not doing that which !,'j is utterly without powiT tf> do It i •. idle to say 
that itis notliiii': but a hilosophica). refinement, thr^t tin; men w.'io come out 
of our theologica'. Benunariea with these notions in their heads never' make 
any use A them in tho puloit, TI.ey do make us^ of them They ',ire scalier- 
ing this .".trocioua stuff all cvr; Che land. They aro making infidels faster 
than they -aro converting sinners. Tho infidelity of this generation i« due 
moro to this tliau any other causo. Wc Bometimes ordain men as foreign 
missionaries who prcresst'^: believe thismediaivai theology. Is it worth while to 
send to tho liieathon a preacher whose God is luoro unjust, if possible, than the 
goils of tho lieatl-.en V" 

Cf'^NCKUNINIi TIIK ITlCATIIKN AND OTH'R NATIONS OUT OK TIIK 

CULJKCii, — '"It is a common o^jii'ion, that itiey who are ]«)rii out of the 
Church, and who aro called iX-faus and Gimliles, cannot bo saved 
])y reason that they have not the Word and thus are ignorant of 
the Lord, without whom there is no salviiliun. But still that these also are 
saved, may bo known from this alont-, that t!w mercy of ihe LoJiD is niii- 
versab that is, extends to every individual man, that they are equally born 
men, !i3 those who are within tho church, who are <-omiiaratively few, and 
that it is no fault of theirs that they ans ignorant of the LoKD. Willi re- 
Kpect to Christians and Gentiles in another lil'e, the case is this; Christians, 
who have acknowledged the truths of faith, and at the samo time have led a 
life of good aro accepttsd bi^foro Gentiles, but such Christi.ans at this day aiv; 
few in number j whereas Gentiles who hav;; lived in obedience and mutual 
charity, are accepted before Christians who have not UhI a goixl life. When 
they aro instructed, they behave themselves modestly, intelligently, and 
wisely, and easilyreceivo ami imbibp, for tiu'y havo toriiiod to themselves no 
principles contrary to the truths of faith, as is tho case with many ("hristiaiis 
who have led a life of evil. All persons tliroughoiit tiio universe are, of tlio 
mercy of tlie LoUi), acce|iteil and sa\ed, who have lived in good, good itself 
being that which receives truth, and the good of lift; being the very ground 
of the seed, that is of triiLli ; evil of life never reci'ives il, ; aillioii.uh they 
who are in evil should be iiistnieled a thousand ways, — sLill tli<; truths of 
rUl h with them would eiili'r no further than into the memory, ami would not; 
enier into llii! alVeel ion, which is (-f the heart ; wherefore al o tlie truths ot 
Hicir memory arc ilissiiialed, and bccviuc no truths iu the other life," 



NKW ClIUKCMl nouKS AND I'AMIMILCTS FOIl SALE 

by .liiiiii'H Spiers, 3*! HIootnHlmry St. L(»inl<»n W. (,'. Piiij^liind, K. IT. 
Swiiiiicy, 20 ('otipfr L'nidii, >f«'W Vork City, U.S.A.; Carter & rcttcc, 
;^Mi>ac<in St. Howton, Mhhh. U. 5. A. In tli<! following list tli<> |iostii>;<i 
i,>i iiiclmled, unless otlierwise spec-tied. The i)ricps in Knjfliind vary lioni 
thu foiluwiug, wliicb liave reference to American money only, 

I'rice. I'ost. Clowes, l'arablen l.f,() 

§ c. c. Clowes, Uelights 1. 



1.5) 44 



Arcana C(julestla, 10 vols 

each 

Apoc. Itovoaled, 51 vols., 

cacli IM 30 

I'rue Christian Iteligion .... 2.5') (iO 

Con.jiiKal Love 1.25 36 

Misci'llanuous Theological 

Works 1.5') 40 

lleavou and llell 1.25 32 

l)ivine I'rovidence 1.25 24 

Four liea<ling Doctrines .. . l.'iO 24 
Divine Jiove and Wisdom. . l.'<(i (X) 

Athanasian Creed *1.25 

Last .1 lulgment, muslin 

Last Judgment, i)a|>er 

Heaven and Hell, paper 

Earths in the Universe, limp.. . 
Earths in the Universe, i)aper.. 

Doctrine of the Lord, pa|)er 

Doct. of the Sacred Scripture 
Doctrine of Faith, paper 



12 

.50 
.10 
.20 



Clowes, ()j)i)osit('s 1,2;'. 

Clowod, Miscellaneous Sermons 2.L'5 
Deliverance of the Israelites 2.25 

Clowes, Ten Virgins 2.25 

Doctrine of the Lord in i'rimi- 

tive ( 'hristian Church 75 

Field, Cosmos and Logos 2.00 

Giles, Nature of Spirit, clo. gilt 1,25 

(Jiles, IS'at ro of S|)irit, clo 7.^ 

Giles, ISH.'ure of S| irit, pajier.. .50 

Giles on the Atonement, clo 50 

Giles on the Atonement, paj)er .25 

Gould, biblical Criticism l.oo 

.75 llayden. Dangers of Modern 

.30 Si»iritualism 7;") 

.50 llayden, Dangiirs of Modern 

.60 Spriritualism, paper 2ii 

..'50 llayden. Lectures on the Apo- 

.20 lypse l.oo 

.15 llayden, Light on the Last 

.10 Things i.^.- 

Doctrinc! of Life, paper 10 llayden. Tea Chai»ters on Mar- 

■ ' ■ '" riage i.oo 

Sermons on the Lord's I'rayer 1 "'0 
Miller, Sermons on Ten Com'dts l.nu 

Jliller, I'ractical Sermons l./;, 

liilh-r, ICeligiou and I'hilo- 

sophy .V) 

Hiller, Who was Swedenborg i" ..'0 

Jliller, I^uctrinal Sermons l.i., 

Diller, God .Manifest l.r.it 

liiller, Notes on the I'salms... 3.00 
llolconibe, Our Children in 

lleavnn 1.75 

Ilolcombe, Sexes Here and 

lleri'ailer l.r.o 

liolcombe, The Other Life 1.5> 

Howard, Journey of the Israe- 
lites l.(HI 

Noble's Appeal 1,7.", 

Noble on the Commandments. 2.oo 

Noble's L«'ctures 2. .50 

Noble, rieiiary Inspiration l.'Zi 

Noble, GloriiPn of the Divine 

Humanity I.75 

Noble, Eigl^t I'arables Kx- 

))lained 2.25 

Keed, S., Growth of the Mind, l.oo 

Keed, J., Man and Wonnin 75 

Keed, J., Jieligion and Life 75 

Uendell, Antediluvian History. 1.75 

<'lowes, iVlediums 2..50 Kenii^ll, I'ostdiluvian History. 1.75 

Clowes, Miracles 1.25 Silver, Holy Word in its own 

Clowes, Marriage of tht^ King's Defence I.'IH 

tfon , 2.00 Silver, Symbolic Cliaracter i.JW 

A much more extens"v..'3ist may l»e seen in the " New Jeru.salem Mes- 
senger," a New Churclt weekly of 10 (juarto jjaiies, published at No. '2", 
CoopL'r Union, New Yoii.'; Teriuar .jo put annum, it is rcall/ a most 
exelleut jwiier lor the fauiily, v "^ 



Heavenly Doctrin(!S, paper 

Decalou^uo lOxplained, cloth 

F^xp. of the Ten Commandments 

Summary Exjiosition 

Anix^idyiise Ex))lained, English 
Edition. 6 vols 10.00 

Col.I.ATERAI. WoKKH. 

Arbouin's Kegenerate Life 75 

IJarrett's Lectures 1.50 

ISarrett, New View of Hell I.'i5 

JJarrett, I'relate and Tastor W 

Unvley, Egypt to ('amtan 3.00 

Divine Wisdom of the Word.. 2.50 
liayloy, Divine Word opened. 3.50 
l>ayley. Essays and Ueviews.... 1.50 
Hayley, Scripture I'arado.xes . . 1.25 

JJayloy, Hrighton Lt'ctures 30 

JS-'owning, Worils in Season... 1.00 
IJruce's Commentary on Mat- 
thew 3.50 

liruce's Commentary on John.. 3.00 

IJruce's Sermons 

Uruce's Strictures, etc 

.I'.ruce's Marriage 

*Jlowes, GospelOf .Matthew. . . 

<'lowes, Gosj)el of Mark 

iJlowes, GosjH'l of Luke. . . 3.00 

*;iowes, (iosi)el of John 3.(M) 

Clowes, Memoirs 2 



1 





.50 

.75 

3.0(t 

3.00 



B 

K. U. 

IVtU'c, 
jiostnpo 
ry lioiii 

... l.f.O 

... 1.:^'', 
... i.'Zi'. 

ons 'i.'.Ti 
itt'S '2:s, 
... a.2& 
lui- 

75 

. . . . 2.<ii» 

gilt i:s, 

'/•''i 

lor.. .r.n 

, no 

.... 1.00 
loin 

7;") 

ieru 
20 

\1U)- 

.... 1.00 
Lutit 

l.'ij 

Mur- 

1.00 

iiycr. 1.00 
ii'tlU 1.00 

l.Vi. 

'hilo- 

f.O 

lor;,' 1 ■[[) 

i 1 •'<•"' 

l.r.o 

II!*... y.oo 

11 in 

, 1.75 

and 

1.50 

•(. 1.5'J 

Isiae- 

1.00 

1.75 

uuntH. 2.00 

2.50 

Ml.... 1.25 
L»iviiie 

1.75 

i Ex- 

2.25 

Mind. 1.0',> 

lan 75 

.ife 75 

listory. 1.75 
islory. 1.75 
it« own 
1.2H 

ctor.... i:'.^ 

usah'in Mo- 
ri at No. 20, 
all/ a most 



