
iWLEO 



o R, 



OLD SECKETS 



A COMPENBITTM OF VALUABLE INFORMATION, AND 

AN INDISPENSABLE HAND-BOOK FOB THE USE 

OF EVERYBODY: THE BEST COLLECTION 

OF RARE AND VALUABLE RECIPES 

EVER PUBLISHED. 




T GEO. BLACKIE & CO., 

J3^ 746 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, 




MADAME LANORMAND'S FOUTUNE-TELLBR AND 
DREAM BOOK. 

This is the greatest book ever published on these subjects, and contains plain and cor- 
rect rules for foretelling what is going to happen. It treats on the art of telling fortunes 
by the hands or Palmistry, as practiced by the Gypsies. — On Moles. — The Birth of 
Children, and Foretelling Events by the RI oca's Age and the days of the week ; and 
How to know if your love for a person will be returned. — Also, on Charms, Spells, and 
Incantations. — Fast of St. Agnes. — 1 he Is ine Keys. — Magic Rose. — Cupid's No.segay. — 
The Ring and Olive Branch. — Love's Cordial. — The Witch's Chain. — Love Letters. — 
Strange Bed. — To see a Future Husband — The Lover's Charm.— How soon you will 
marry. — How to tell a person's character by Cabalistic Calculations. — How to tell For- 
tunes by Tea Leaves and Coffee Grounds ; by the White of an Egg. — How to Choose a 
Husband by the Hair. — Lucky Days, etc., etc. It also contains a complete Dictionary 
of all Dreams, arranged alphabetically, and with a clear interpretation of each. — Also, 
Hymen'sLottery, and all good and bad Omens. — Also, the only true copy of the Oracu- 
lum ever published in this country ; it is the Oracle that foretold to Alexander the 
Great, his successes; it was found by Madame Lanormand, in iSoi, in one of the 
Royal Egyptian Tombs ; it was given by her to Napoleon the First, who always con- 
sulted it previous to any of his undertakings. Mailed for 20 Cents. 



THE SHOWMAN'S GUIDE; OE, THE BLACK AET 
rULLY EXPOSED AND LAID BARE. 

This book contains most of the marvelous things in Ancient or Modem Magic, and is 
the Text Bo(5k for all showmen. It shows How to knock a Tumbler through a Table. — 
To drive one Tumbler through another. — How to make the Protean Liquid. — To make 
a Watch stop or go at the word of command. — How to walk barefooted on a hot iron 
bar. — To discover any Card in a pack by its weight or smell. — To turn Water into Wine. 
— How to eat Fire.— To Dip the Hand into Water without wetting it, — How to Fill a 
Gla-ss with two different Liquids, without mixing them.— How to Light a Candle by a 
Glass of Water. — To Freeze Water by shaking it.— To break a Stone with a Blow of the 
Fist. — To tear a Handkerchief into pieces and to make it whole again. — How to fire a 
loaded Pistcl at the Hand without hurting it. — To change a bowl of Ink into clear Wa- 
ter with Fish swimming in it. — To produce Candles, Nuts, etc., from a handkerchief, 
and many other tricks too numerous to mention. lAailed for 25 Cents* 



THE MAGICIAN'S GUIDE; OB, CONJURING MADE 
EASY. 

This work was written by the celebrated Houdin, who. being prompted by an honest 
desire to instruct those who wish to be initiated into the depths and mysteries of his art, 
laid bare all his professional secrets, and has treated the .subject in the mo.st eminently 
successful manner. By a series of lessons he has thoroughly explained the prmciples of 
the higher science. >Jumerous illustrations, together with full and explicit directions, 
make success sure, and he who desires t«»be the .sought after and honored guest at every 
party or entertainment, has but to study this book. It treats on all kinds of Magic, Leg- 
erdemain, and Prestidigitation ; Galvanism, Magnetism and Electricity, and is illustrated 
with 33 first class engravings. Mailed for 85 Cents. 




|4iWLE0@. 



OR, 




9 



OLD SECEETS 



AND 



WHW ©ie©®VHBlBSc. 



A COMPENDIUM Ol' VALUABLE INFORMATION, AND 

AN INDISPENSABLE HAND-BOOK FOR THE USE 

OF EVERYBODY : THE BEST COLLECTION 

OF RARE AND VALUABLE RECIPES 

EVER PUBLISHED. 



OF Co^'^<\ 
p N0.J.O.S 

cv^ IS-: 



GEO. BLACKIE & CO., ^ 
74Le BBOADIF^Y, NEW YORK, 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE. 

Secret* of the Liquor Trade 3 

Druggists' Department 8 

Manufacturers' Department 14 

The Toilet, Perfumerj-, Etc. . . . ; , 27 

Hunters' and Trappers' Secrets 34 

The Fine Arts and Sciences 36 

Farmers* Department 43 

Confectioners' Department 46 

Valuable Miscellaneous Kecipes for the Household and 

every day Eequirements 48 



Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by Chas. McArthur, in the 
Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 



iUR iHOWLEOe 



SECRETS OF THE LIQUOR TRADE. 

Cider Without Apples. — To each gallon of cold water, put 1 lb. 
common sugar, i oz. tartaric acid, 1 tablespoonful of yeast, shake 
well, make in the evening, and it will be fit for use next day. I 
make in a keg a few gallons at a time, leaving a few quarts to 
make into next time ; not using yeast again until the keg needs 
rinsing. If it gets a little sour make a little more into it, or put 
as much water with it as there is cider, and put it with the vine- 
gar. If it is desired to bottle this cider by manufacturers of small 
drinks, you will proceed as follows : Put in a barrel 5 gallons hot 
water, 30 lbs. brown sugar, | lb. tartaric acid, 25 gallons cold 
water, 3 pints of hop or brewers' yeast worked into paste with | lb. 
flour, and 1 pint water will be required in making this paste, put 
altogether in a barrel, which it will fill, and let it work 24 hours— 
the yeast running out at the bung all the time, by putting in a lit- 
tle occasionally to keep it full. Then bottle, putting in 2 or 3 
broken raisins to each bottle, and it will nearly equal Cham- 
pagne. 

Cider Champagne, No. 1.— Good cider, 20 gallons ; spirits, 1 gal- 
lon ; honey or sugar, 6 lbs. Mix, and let them rest for a fortnight ; 
then fine with skimmed milk, 1 quart. This, put up in champagne 
bottles, silvered and labeled, has often been sold for Champagne. 
It opens very sparkling. * 

Cider— To Keep Sweet— 1st By putting into the barrel before 
the cider has begun to work, about half a pint of whole fresh mus- 
tard seed tied up in a coarse muslin bag. 2d. By burning a little 
sulphur or sulphur match in the barrel previous to putting in the 
cider. 3d. By the use of ^ of an ounce of the bi-sulphite of lime 
to the barrel. This article is the preserving powder sold at rather 
a high price by various firms. 



4 OUR KNO WLED GE BOX. 

To Keutralize Whiskey to make various Liquors. — To 40 gallons of 
whiskey, add li lbs. imslacked lime ; f lb. alum, and i pint of 
spirits of nitre. "^ Stand 2i hours and draw it off. 

Madeira Wine.— To 40 gallons prepared cider, add, \ lb. tartaric 
acid ; 4 gallons spirits ; 3 lbs. loaf sugar. Let it stand 10 days, 
draw it off carefully ; fme it down, and again rack it into another 
cask. 

Sherry Wine.— Ho 40 gallons prepared cider, add, 2 gallons spir- 
its ; 3 lbs. of raisins ; 6 gallons good sherry, and h, ounce oil bit- 
ter almonds, (dissolved in alcohol). Let it stancl 10 days, and 
draw it off carefully ; fine it down and again rack it into another 
cask. 

P(yrt Wine.— To 40 gallons prepared cider, add, 6 gallons good 
port wine ; 10 quarts wild grapes, (clusters) ; \ lb. bruised rhatany 
root; 3 oz. tincture of kino; 3 lbs. loaf sugar; 2 gallons spirits. 
Let this stand ten days ; color if too light, with tincture of rhat- 
any, then rack it off and fine it. This should be repeated until the 
color is perfect and the liquid clear. 

To correct a had Taste and sourness in Wine. — ^Put in a bag the root 
of wild horse-radish cut in bits. Let it down in the wine, and 
leave it there two days ; take this out, and put another, repeating 
the same till the wine is perfectly restored. Or fill a bag with 
wheat ; it will have the same effect. 

To restore Flat Wine.— KM four or five pounds of sugar, honey, or 
bruised raisins, to every hundred gallons, and bung close. A lit- 
tle spirits may also be added. 

To restore Wine that has turned sour or sharp. — Fill a bag with leek- 
seed, or of leaves or twisters of vine, and put either of them to in- 
fuse in the cask. 

Ginger Wine. — Take one quart of 95 per cent, alcohol, and put 
into it one ounce of best ginger root (bruised and not ground), five 
grains of capsicum, and one drachm of tartaric acid. Let stand 
one v«^eek and filter. Now add one gallon of watex", in whii^h one 
pomid of crushed sugar has been boiled. Mix Avhen cold. To 
make the color, boil ^ ounce of cochineal, ^ ounce of cream tartar, 
^ ounce of saleratus, and | ounce alum in a pint of water till you 
get a bright re^ color. 

French Bi'andy.'—Ture spirits, 1 gallon; best French brandy, or 
any kind you wish to imitate, 1 quart ; loaf sugar, 2 ounces ; sweet 
spirits of nitre, ^ ounce ; a few drops of tincture of catechu, or oak 
bark, to roughen the taste if desired, and color to suit. 

Gin. — Take 100 gallons of clean, rectified spirits; add, after you 
have killed the oils well, li ounces of the oil of English juniper, ^ 



SECRETS OF THE LIQUOR TRADE. 

ounce of the oil of coriander, and h ounce of tlie oil of caraway ; 
put this into the rectiiied spirit an*d well rummage it up ; this is 
what the rectifiers call strong gin. 

To make this up, as it is called by the trade, add 45 pounds of 
loaf-sugar, dissolved ; then rummage the whole well up together 
with 4 ounces of roche alum. For linings there may be added two 
ounces of salts of tartar. 

Aromatic Schiedam Schnapps, to imiiate. — To 25 gallons good com- 
mon gin, 5 over proof, add 15 pints strained honey ; 2 gallons 
clear water ; 5 pints white-sugar syrup ; 5 pints spirit of nutmegs 
mixed with the nitric ether ; 5 pints orange-flower water ; 7 quarts 
pure water ; 1 ounce acetic ether ; 8 drops of oil of wintergreen, 
dissolved with the acetic ether. Mix all the ingredients well ; if 
necessary, fine with alum and salt of tartar. 

St. Croix Rum. — To 40 gallons p. or n. spirits, add 2 gallons St. 
Croix Eum ; 2 oz. acetic acid ; Ih ounce bmyric acid ; 3 pounds 
loaf sugar. 

Pine- Apple Rum. — To 50 gallons rum, made by the fruit method, 
add 25 pine-apples sliced, and 8 pounds white sugar. Let it stand 
two weeks before drawing off. 

Irish or Scotch Whiskey. — To 40 gallons proof spirits, add 60 drops 
of creosote, dissolved in 1 quart of alcohol ; 2 oz. acetic acid ; 1 
pound loaf sugar. Stand 48 hours. 

Rum Shrub. — Tartaric acid, 5 pounds; pale sugar, 100 pounds; 
oil lemon, 4 drs. ; oil orange, 4 drs. ; put them into a large cask 
(80 gallons), and add water, 10 gallons. Rummage till the acid 
and sugar are dissolved, then add rum (proof), 20 gallons ; water 
to make up 55 gallons in all ; coloring one quart or more. Fine 
with 12 eggs. The addition of 12 sliced oranges will improve the 
flavor. 

Bourbon Whiskey. — To 100 gallons pure proof spirit, add 4 ounces 
pear oil; 2 ounces pelargonif ether; 13 drs. oil of wintergreen, dis- 
solved in the ether; 1 gallon wine vinegar. Color with burnt 
sugar. 

Slrong Beer, English Improved. — Malt, 1 peck ; coarse brown su- 
gar, 6 pounds; hops, 4. ounces; good yeast, 1 teacup; if you have 
not ttialt, take a little over 1 peck of barley, (twice the amount of 
oats will do, but are not as good,) and put it into an oven after the 
bread is drawn, or into a stove oven, and steam the moisture 
from them. Grind coarsely. Now pour upon the ground malt 3h 
gallons of v/ater at 170 or 172"^ of heat. The tub in which you 
scald the malt should have a false bottom, 2 or 3 inches from the 



6 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

real bottom ; the false bottom should bo bored full of gimlet holes, 
so us to act as a strainer, to keep back the malt meal. When the 
water is poured on, stir them well, and let it stand 3 hours, and 
draw off by a lauci^t ; put in 7 gallons more of water at 180 to 182° ; 
stir it well, and let it stand 2 hours, and draw it off. Then put on 
a galh)n or two of cold water, stir it well, and draw it off; you 
should have about 5 or 6 gallons. Put the 6 pounds of coarse 
brown sugar in an equal amount of w^ater; mix with tlio w^ort, and 
boil li to 2 hours with tho hops; you should have eight gallons 
when iJoiled ; when cooled to 80"^ put in the yeast, and let it work 18 
to 20 hours, covered with a sack ; use somid iron hooped kegs or 
porter bottles, bung or cork tight, and in two weeks it will bo 
good sound beer, and will keep a long time ; and for persons of a 
weak habit of body, and especially females, 1 glass of this with 
their meals is far better than tea or coffee, or all the ardent spirits 
in tho universe. If more malt is used, not exceeding | a bushel, 
the beer, of course, would have more spirit, but this strength is 
suflQcient for tho use tt families or invalids. 

Boot Beer.— Tor 10 gallons beer, take 3 pounds common burdock 
root, or 1 ounce essence of sassafras ; ^ pound good hops ; 1 pint 
com, roasted brown. Boil the whole in 6 gallons pure water until 
the strength of the materials is obtained ; strain while hot into a 
keg, adding enough cold water to make 10 gallons. When nearly 
col(l, add clean molasses or syrup until palatable, — not sickishly 
sweet. Add also as much fresh yeast as will raise a batch of 8 
loaves of bread. Place tho keg in a cellar or other cool place, and 
in 48 hours you will have a keg of first-rate sparkling root beer. 

Stqjerior Ginger Beer. — Ten pounds of sugar ; 9 ounces of lemon 
juice; ^ a pound of honey; 11 ounces of bruised ginger root; 9 
gallons of water ; 3 pints of yeast. Boil the ginger half an hour 
in a gallon of water ; then add tho rest of the water and the other 
ingredients, and strain it when cold. Add the white of an egg, 
beaten, and -J an ounce of essence of lemon. Let it stand 4 days, 
then bottle, and it will keep many months. 

Spruce Beer. — Take of tho essence of spruce half a pint; bruised 
pimento and ginger, of each four ounces ; water, three gallons. 
Boil five or ten minutes*, then strain and add 11 gallons of warm 
water, a pint of yeast, and six pints of molasses. Allow tho mix- 
ture to ferment for 24 hours. 

To Cure Bopy Beer.— Put a handful or two of flour, and tho same 
quantity of hops, with a little powdered alum, into tlie beer and 
rummage it well. 

To give Beer the appearance qfAge.—iidd a few handfuls of pickled 
cucumbers and Seville oranges, both chopped up. This is said to 
make malt liciuor appear six months older than it really is. 



SECBETS OF THE LIQUOR TRADE. 7 

How to make Mead. — The following is a good receipt for Mead : — 
On twenty pounds of honey pour five gallons of boiling water ; boil, 
and remove the scum as it rises ; add one ounce of best hops, and 
boil for ten minutes ; then put the liquor into a tub to cool ; when 
all but cold add a little yeast, spread upon a slice of toasted bread ; 
let it stand in a warm room. When fermentation is set up, put the 
mixture into a cask, and fill up from time to time as the yeast runs 
out of the bunghole ; when the fermentation is finished, bung it 
down, leaving a peg-hole which can afterwards be closed, and in 
less than a year it will be fit to bottle. 

Stomach Bitters, equal to Hostetter's, for one-fourth its cost. — Euro- 
pean Gentian root, 1^ ounce ; orange peel, 2^ ounces ; cinnamon, 
\ ounce ; aniseseed, ^ ounce ; coriander seed^ 2 ounce ; cardamon 
seed, I ounce; unground Peruvian bark, ^ ounce; gum kino, J 
ounce ; bruise all these articles, and put them into the best alco- 
hol, 1 pint; let it stand a week and pour off the clear tincture: 
then boil the dregs a few minutes in 1 quart of water, strain, and 
press out all the strength ; now dissolve loaf sugar, 1 pound, in the 
hot liquid, adding 3 quarts cold water, and mix with spirit tinc- 
ture first poured off, or you can add these, and let it stand on the 
dregs if preferred. 

Soda Syrup, icith or without Fountains. — The common or more 
watery syrups are made by using loaf or crushed sugar, 8 pounds ; 
pure water, 1 gallon , gum arable, 2 ounces , mix in a brass or cop- 
per kettle ; boil until the gum is dissolved, then skim and strain 
through white flannel, after which add tartaric acid, 5^ oz., dis- 
solved in hot water ; to flavor, use extract of lemon, orange, rose, 
pine-apple, peach, sarsaparilla, strawberry, etc., ^ ounce to each 
bottle, or to your taste. 

Bead for Liquor. — The best bead is the orange-flower water bead, 
(oil of neroli,) 1 drop to each gallon of brandy. Another method: — 
To every 40 drops of sulpuric acid, add 60 drops purest sweet oil 
in a glass vessel; use immediately. This quantity is generally 
sufficient for 10 gallons spirit. Another : — take 1 ounce of the 
purest oil sweet almonds ; 1 ounce of sulphuric acid ; put them in 
a stone mortar, add, by degrees, 2 ounces white lump sugar, rub- 
bing it well with the pestle till it becomes a paste ; then add small 
quantities of spirits of wine till it comes into a liquid. This quan- 
tity is sufficient for 100 gallons. The first is strongly recommend- 
ed as the best. 

Coloring for Liquors.— Tnka 2 pounds crushed or lump sugar, put 
it into a kettle that will hold 4 to 6 quarts, with ^ tumbler of water. 
Boil it until it is black, then take it off and cool with w^r, stir- 
ring it as you put in the water. 



8 UR KXO WLEDGE B OX. 

Wax Putiy for Leaky Casks, Bungs, efc— Spirits turpentine, 2 
pounds ; tallow, 4 pounds ; solid turpentine, 12 pounds. Melt the 
wax and solid turpentine together over a slow fire, then add the 
tallow. When melted, remove far from the fire, then stir the 
spirits turpentine, and let it cool. 

Cement for the Mouths of Corked Bottles.— Melt together J of a pound 
of rosin, a couple of dunces of beeswax. When it froths stir it 
with a tallow candle. As soon as it melts, dip the mouths of the 
cork«Hl bottles into it. This is an excellent thing to exclude the 
air from such things as are injured by being exposed to it. 



DEUGGISTS' DEPAKTMENT. 

Arnica Liniment. — Add to one pint of sweet oil, two tablespoon- 
fuls of tincture of arnica ; or the leaves may be heated in the oil 
over a slow fire. Good for wounds, stiff joints, rheumatic, and all 
injuries. 

Ai/ers Cherry PectoraJ. — Take four grains of acetate of morphia, 
2 fluid drachms of tincture of bloodroot, 7 fluid drachms each of 
antinionial wine and wine of ipecacuanha, and 3 fluid ounces of 
syrup of wild cherry. Mix. 

Balm Gilead. — Balm-gilead buds, bottled up in new rum, are very 
healing to fresh cuts or wounds. No family should be without a 
bottle. 

Blackberry Cordial. — To one quart of blackberry'' juice, add one 
pound of white sugar, one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, 
one of cinnamon, and one of nutmeg. Boil all together fifveen 
minutes ; add a wineglass of whiskey, brandy or rum. Bottle 
while hot, cork tight, and seal. This is almost a specific in diar- 
rhea. One dose, which is a wineglassful for an adult — half that 
<4uantity for a child— will often cure diarrhea. It can be taken 
three or four times a day if the case is severe. 

BrandrHKs Pills. — Take two pounds of aloes, one pound of gam- 
boge, four ounces of extract of colocynth, half a pound of castile 
soap, two fluid drachms of oil of peppermint, and one fluid drachm 
of cinnamon. ' Mix, and form into pills. 

Broicn\s Bronchial Troches.— TiikQ one pound of pulverized ex- 
tract of licorice, one and a half pounds of pulverized sugar, four 
ounces of pulverized cubebs, four ounces of pulverized gum arable, 
and on(^uiice of i)ulverized extract of conium. Mix. 

Bryan's Pulmonic Wafers for Coughs, Colds, JS^c— Take Avhite su- 



DRUGGISTS' DEPARTMENT. 9 

gar, seven pounds; tincture of syrup of ipecac, four ounces: anti- 
monial wine, two ounces ; morphine, ten grains ; dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of water, with ten or fifteen drops sulphuric acid ; 
tincture of bloodroot, one ounce; syrup of tolu, two ounces; add 
these to the sugar, and mix the whole mass as confectioners do 
for lozenges, and cut into lozenges the ordinary size. Use from six 
to twelve of these in twenty-four hours. They sell at a great 
profit. 

Candied Lemon or Peppermint, for Colds. — Boil one and a half 
pounds of sugar in a half pint of water, till it begins to candy 
round the sides ; put in eight drops of essence ; pour it upon but- 
tered paper, and cut it with a knife. 

Camphor Balls, for rubbing on the hands, to prevent chaps, etc. 
Melt three drachms of spermaceti, four drachms of white wax, 
and one ounce of almond oil ; stir in three drachms of powdered 
camphor. Pour the compound into small gallipots, so as to form 
small hemispherical cakes. They may be colored with alkanet, if 
preferred. 

Camphorated Oil. — This is another camphor liniment. The pro- 
portions are the same as in the preceding formula, substituting 
olive oil for the alcohol, and exposing the materials to a moderate 
heat. As an external stimulant application it is even more power- 
ful than the spirits ; and to obtain its full influence the part treat- 
ed should be also covered with flannel and oil silk. It forms a 
valuable liniment in chronic rheumatism and other painful affec- 
tions, and is specially valuable as a counter-irritant in sore or in- 
flamed throats and diseased bowels. Camphor constitutes the 
basis of a large number of valuable liniments. Thus, in cases of 
whooping-cough and some chronic bronchitic affections, the fol- 
lowing liniment may be advantageously rubbed into the chest and 
along the spine. Spirits of camphor, two parts ; laudanupa, half a 
part ; spirits of turpentine, one part ; castile soap in powder, finely 
divided, half an ounce; alcohol, 3 parts. Digest the whole to- 
gether for three days, and strain through linen. This liniment 
should be gently warmed before using. A powerful liniment for 
old rheumatic pains, especially when affecting the loins, is the 
following : camphorated oil and spirits of turpentine, of each two 
parts ; water of hartshorn, one part ; laudanum, one part ; to be 
well shaken together. Another very efficient liniment or embro- 
cation, serviceable in chronic painful affections, may be conven- 
iently and easily made as follows : Take of camphor, one ounce ; 
cayenne pepper, in powder, two teaspoonfuls ; alcohol, one pint. 
The whole to bo digested with moderate heat for ten days, and fil- 
tered. It is an active rubificant ; and after a slight friction with 
it, it produces a grateful, thrilling sensation of heat in the pained 
part, which is rapidly relieved. 



10 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

Ctmphor Tablet for Chapped JIavd.<i, etc.— Melt tallow, and add a 
littlo powdered camphor and glycerine, with a few drops of oil of 
ulmonds to scent. Tour in molds and cool. 

Camphorated £j/e- TT'rt^er.— Sulphate of copper, 15 grains; French 
bolo, 15 grains ; camphor, 4 grains ; boiling water, 4 oz. Infuse, 
strain, and dilute with 2 quarts of cold water. 

Cai,ker-Cnrc.—T-dke one large teaspoonful of water, two teaspoon- 
fuls of h(>n(>y, two of loaf sugar, three of powdered sage, two of 
powdered gold-thread, and one of alum. Stir up all together; put 
into a vessel, and let it simmer moderately over a steady fire. An 
oven is better. Then bottle for use. Give a teaspoonful occas- 
ionally through the day. 

Cephalic Snuff.— Dried asarbacca leaves, three parts ; majoram, 
one part, lavender flowers, one part ; rub together to a powder. 

Certain Cure for Headache and all Neuralgic Pains. — Opodeldoc, 
spirits of wine, sal ammoniac, equal parts. To be applied as any 
other lotion. 

Chamomile Pills. — Aloes, twelve grains ; extract chamomile, thirty- 
six grains ; oil of chamomile, three drops ; make into twelve pills : 
two (^v(>ry night, or twice a day. 

Chlorine Pastilesfor Disinfecting the Breath. — Dry chloride of lime, 
two drachms ; sugar, eight ounces ; starch, one ounce , gum trag- 
acanth, one drachm; carmine, two grains. Form into small loz- 
enges. 

2. Sugar flavored with vanilla, 1 ounce ; powdered tragacanth, 
20 grains ; liquid chloride of soda sufficient to mix ; add two drops 
of any essential oil. Form a paste and divide into lozenges of 15 
grains each, 

Cholera ^forhnM. — Take two ounces of the leaves of the bene 
plant, put them in half a pint of cold water and let them soak an 
hour. Give two tablespoonfuls hourly, until relief is experienced. 

Cholera Remedy. — Spirits of wine, one ounce ; spirits of lavender, 
quarter ounce; spirits of camphor, quarter ounce; compound 
tincture of benzoin, half an ounce; oil of origanum, quarter ounce; 
twenty drops on moist sugar. To be rubbed outwardly also. 

2. Twenty-five minims of diluted sulphuric acid in an ounce of 
water. 

0)rn Piemedy. —9,oak a piece of copper in strong vinegar for 
twelve or twenty-four hours. Pour the liquid off, and bottle. Ap- 
ply freijuently, till the corn is removed. 

2. Supercarbonato of soda, one ounce, finely pulverized, and mix 
with half an ounce of lard. Apply on a linen rag every night. 



DRUGGISTS' DEPARTMENT. 11 

Cough Compound. — For the cure of coughs, colds, asthma, whoop- 
ing cough and all diseases of the lungs ; One spoonful of common 
tar, three spoonfuls of honej', the yolk of three hen's eggs, and 
half a pint of wine ; beat the tar, eggs and honey well together 
with a knife, and bottle for use. A teaspoonful every morning, 
noon and night, before eating. 

Cough Syrup. — Put one quart hoarhound to one quart water, and 
boil it down to a pint ; add two or three sticks of licorice and a 
tablespoonful of essence of lemon. Take a tablespoonful of the 
syrup three times a day, or as often as the cough may be trouble- 
some. The above receipt has been sold for $100. Several lirms 
are making much money by its manufacture. 

Cure for Diarrhea. — The following is said to be an excellent cure 
for the above distressing complaint : Laudanum, two ounces ; 
spirits of camphor, two ounces; essence of peppermint, two 
ounces ; Hoffman's anodyne, two ounces ; tincture of cayenne pep- 
per, two drachms ; tincture of ginger, one ounce. Mix all together. 
Dose, teaspoonful in a little water, or a half teaspoonful repeated 
in an hour afterward in a tablespoonful of brandy. This prepara- 
tion it is said, will check diarrhea in ten minutes, and abate other 
premonitory symptoms of cholera immediately. In cases of 
cholera, it has been used with great success to restore reaction by 
outward application. 

Digestive Pills. — Khubarb, two ounces; ipecacuanha, half an 
ounce ; cayenne pepper, quarter of an ounce ; soap, half an ounce ; 
ginger, quarter of an ounce ; gamboge, half an ounce. Mix, and 
divide into four grain pills. 

Dried Herbs. — All herbs which are to be dried should be washed, 
separated, and carefully picked over, then spread on a coarse paper 
and keep in a room until perfectly dry. Those which are intended 
for cooking should be stripped from the stems and rubbed very 
fine. Then put them in bottles and cork tightly. Put those 
which are intended for medicinal purposes into paper bags, and 
keep them in a dry place. 

Dysentery Specific, (particularly for bloody dysentery in Adults 
and Children.) — Take one pound gum arable, one ounce gum trag- 
acanth, dissolved in two quarts of soft water, and strained. Then 
take one pound of cloves, half a pound of cinnamon, half a pound 
allspice, and boil in two quarts of soft water, and strain. Add it 
to the gums, and boil all together over a moderate fire, and stir in- 
to it two pounds of loaf sugar. Strain the whole again when you 
take it off, and when it is cool, add to it half a pint sweet tincture 
rhubarb, and a pint and a half of best brandy. Cork it tight in 



12 UR KXO WLEDGE BOX. 

bottles, as the gums will sour, if exposed. If corked properly it 
-will keep for years. 

Anii-Bilious Pi/Hs.— Compound extract of colocynth, GO grains ; 
rhubarb, 30 grains ; soap, 10 grains. Make into 2J: pills. Dose 2 
to 4. 

2. Compound extract of colocynth, 2 drachms ; extract of rhu- 
barl), half a drachm ; soap, 10 grains. Mix, and divide into 40 
pills. Dose, 1, 2, or 3. 

3. Scammony, 10 to 15 grains ; compound extract of colocynth, 
2 scruples ; extract of rhubarb, half a drachm ; soap, 10 grains ; 
oil of carawajT 5 drops. Make into 20 pills. Dose, 1 or 2, as re- 
quired. 

Great Pain Extractor. — Spirits of ammonia, one ounce ; laudanum, 
one ounce ; oil of organum, one ounce ; mutton tallow, half-pound ; 
combine the articles with the tallow when it is nearly cool. 

Goflfrei/s Cordial — Sassafras, six ounces; seeds of coriander, 
caraway and anise, of each one ounce ; infuse in six pints of water ; 
simmer the mixture till r<>du(*ed to four pints ; then add six pounds 
of mojasses; boil n few minutes; when cold, add three fluid 
ounces of tincture of opium. For children teething. 

Hydrophobia, to Prevent. — Elecampane, one drachm ; chalk, four 
drachms ; Arn:!enian bole, three drachms ; alum, ten grains ; oil of 
aniseseed, five drops. 

Infant's Syrnp. — The syrup is made thus : one pound best box 
raisins, half an ounce of aniseseed, two sticks licorice; split the 
raisins, pound the aniseseed, and cut the licorice fine; add to it 
three quarts of rain water, and boil down to two quarts. Feed 
three or four times a day, as much as the child will willingly 
drink. The raisins are to strengthen, the anise is to expel the 
wind, and the licorice as a physic. 

Basilicon Oiniment. — Good resin, five parts; lard, eight parts; 
yellow wax, two parts. Melt, and stir together till cool. 

Cancer Ointment. — White arsenic, sulphur, powdered flowers of 
lesser spearwort, and stinking chamomile, levigated together and 
formed into a paste with white of egg. 

Elder Flower Ointment. — Lard, twenty-five pounds ; prepared mut- 
ton suet, five pounds ; melt in an earthen vessel ; add elder flower 
water, three gallons. Agitate for half an hour, and set it aside ; 
the next day gently pour off the water, remelt the ointment, add 
l)enzoic acid three drachms ; otto of roses, twenty drops ; essence 
of bergamot and oil of rosemary, of each, thirty drops ; again agi- 



DRUGGISTS' DEPARTMENT. 13 

tate well, let it settle for a few minutes, and pour off the clear 
into pots. 

Eruption Oinimcnl, for Frosted Fed, etc. — Chrome yellow, and hog's 
lard. 

Foot Ointment (for all domestic animals). — Equal pirts of tar, lard 
and resin, melted together. 

Golden Ointment. — Orpiment, mixed with lard to the consistence 
of an ointment. 

Pile Ointment. — Powdered nutgall, two drachms ; camphor, one 
drachm ; melted wax, one ounce ; tincture of opium, two drachms. 
Mix. 

Swaim's Vermifuge. — "Wormseed, two ounces : valerian, rhubarb, 
pink-root, white agaric, of each, one and a half ounces ; boil in 
sufficient water to yield three quarts of decoction, and add to it thirty 
drops of oil of tansy, and forty-five drops of oil of cloves, dissolved 
in a quart of rectified spirits. Dose, one tcaspoonful at night. 

For Tetter, Ringworm, and Scald Head. — One pound simple cerate ; 
sulphuric acid, one-quarter of a pound ; mix together, and ready 
for use. 

Tincture for Wounds. — Digest flowers of St. Johnswart, one hand- 
ful, in half a pint of rectified spirits, then express the liquor and 
dissolve it in myrrh, aloes, and dragon's blood, of each one drachm, 
with Canada balsam, half an ounce. 

Tonic. — The following is the tonic used by reformed drunkards 
to restore the vigor of the stomach. Take of gentian root, half an 
ounce ; valerian root, one drachm ; best rhubarb root, two drachms ; 
bitter orange peel, three drachms ; cardamom seeds, half an ounce ; 
and cinnamon bark, one drachm. Having bruised all the above 
together in a mortar (the druggist will do it if requested), pour 
upon it one and a half pints of boiling water and cover up close ; 
let it stand till cold ; strain, bottle, and cork securely ; keep in a 
dark place. Two tablespoonfuls may be taken every hour before 
meals, and half that quantity whenever the patient feels that dis- 
tressing sickness and prostration so generally present for some 
time after alcoholic stimulants have been abandoned. 

Whooping Cough. — Mix a quarter of a pound of ground elecam- 
pane root in half a pint of strained honey and half a pint of Avater. 
Put them in a glazed earthen pot, and place it in a stone oven, 
with half the heat required to bake bread. Let it bake until about 
the consistency of strained honey, and take it out. Administer in 
doses of a teaspoonful before each meal, to a child ; if an adult, 
double the dose. 



U OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

Wild Cherry Bitters. — Boil a pound ot wild cherry bark in a quart 
of water till reduced to a pint. Sweeten and add a little rum to 
preserve, or, if to be used immediately, omit the rum. Dose, a 
wineglassfuL three times a day, on an empty stomach. ^ 

A Certain Cure for Drunkenness. — Sulphate of iron, 5 grains ; mag- 
nesia, 10 grains# peppermint water, 11 drachms; spirits of nut- 
meg, 1 drachm ; twice a day. This preparation acts as a tonic 
and stimulant, and so partially supplies the place of the accus- 
tomed liquor, and prevents that absolute physical and moral 
prostration that follows a sudden breaking off from the use of 
stimulating drinks. 



MANUFACTUKERS' DEPAETMENT. 

Inddihle Ink for Marking Clothing. — Nitrate of silver, five scruples ; 
gum arable, two drachms ; sap green, one scruple ; distilled water, 
one ounce; mix together. Before writing on the article to be 
marked, apply a little of the following : carbonate of soda, one-, 
half ounce; distilled water, four ounces; let this last, which is 
the mordant, get dry; then, with a quill pen, write what you 
require. 

Imitation Gold. — 16 parts platina; 7 parts copper; 1 part zinc. 
Put in a covered crucible, with powdered charcoal, and melt to- 
gether till the whole forms one mass, and are thoroughly incorpor- 
ated together. Or, take 4 oz. platina, 3 oz. silver, 1 oz. copper. 

Imitation Silver. — 11 oz. refined nickel; 2 oz. metalic bismuth. 
Melt the compositions together three times, and pour them out in 
ley. The third time, when melting, add 2 oz. pure silver. Or take 
I oz. copper, 1 oz. bismuth, 2 oz. saltpetre, 2 oz. common salt, 1 
oz. arsenic, 1 oz. potash, 2 oz. brass, and 3 oz. pure silver. Melt 
all together in a crucible. 

Becipe for Making Artificial Honey. — To 10 lbs. sugar add 3 lbs. 
water, 40 grains cream tartar, 10 drops essence peppermint, and 
3 lbs. strained honey. First dissolve the sugar in water, and take 
off the scum ; then dissolve the cream of tartar in a little warm 
water, which you will add with some little stirring ; then add the 
honey ; heat to a boiling point, and stir for a few minutes. 

Vinegar. — Take forty gallons of soft water, six quarts of cheap 
molasses, and six pounds of acetic acid ; put them into a barrel 
(an old vinegar barrel is best), and let them stand from three to 
ten weeks, stirring occasionally. Add a little "mother" of old 
vinegar if convenient. Age improves it. 



MANUFACTURERS' DEPARTMENT. 15 

Soft iSoap.— Dissolve fifteen pounds of common cheap hard soap 
in fifteen gallons of hot water, and let it cool. Then dissolve 
fifteen pounds of sal soda in fiftteen gallons of hot water ; add six 
pounds of unslaked lime, and boil twenty minutes. Let it cool 
and settle, and then pour off the clear liquor very carefully and 
mix it with the soap solution. It improves it very much to add 
one quart of alcohol after mixing the two solutions. Smaller 
quantities can be made in the same proportions. If too strong, 
add water to suit, 

Bahbifs Premium Soap.— 5 gals, strong ley ; 5 gals water ; 5 lbs. 
tallow ; 1 lb. potash ; 2 lbs. sal soda ; ^ lb. rosin ; 1 pt. salt ; 1 pt. 
washing fluid. Let the water boil ; then put in the articles, and 
boil half an hour. Stir it well while boiling, and then run into 
moulds. It will be ready for use as soon as cold. The above 
preparations are for 100 pounds of soap. 

Celebrated Recipe for Silver Wash. — One ounce of nitric acid, one 
ten-cent piece, and one ounce of quick-silver. Put in an open 
glass vessel and let it stand until dissolved ; then add one pint of 
water, and it is ready for use. Make it into a powder by adding 
whiting, and it may be used on brass, copper, German silver, etc. 

Cement for Aquaria. — Many persons have attempted to make 
aquarium, but have failed on account of the extreme difficulty in 
making the tank resist the action of water for any length of time. 
Below is a recipe for a cement that can be relied upon ; it is per- 
fectly free from anything that injures the animals or plants ; it 
sticks to glass, metal, wood, stone, etc., and hardens under water. 
A hundred different experiments with cements have been tried, 
but there is nothing like it. It is the same as that used in con- 
structing the tanks of the Zoological Gardens, London, and is al- 
most unknown in this country. One part, by measure, say a gill, 
of litharge; one gill of plaster of Paris; one gill of dry, white 
sand , one-third of a gill of finely-powdered resin. Sift and keep 
corked tight until required for use, when it is to be made into a 
putty by mixing in boiled oil (linseed) with a little patent dryer 
added. Never use it after it has been mixed (that is, with the oil) 
over fifteen hours. This cement can be used for marine as well 
as fresh water aquaria, as it resists the action of salt water. The 
tank can be used immediately, but it is best to give it thrco or 
four hours to dry. 

Cement for Attaching Metal to Glass. — Take two ounces of a thick 
solution of glue, and mix it with one ounce of linseed-oil varnish, 
and half an ounce of pure turpentine ; the whole are then boiled 
together in a close vessel. The two bodies should be clamped 
and held together for about two days after they are united, 



16 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

to allow the cement to become dry. The clamps may then be 
removed. 

Cement for Mending Broken China. — Stir plaster of Paris into a 
thick solution of gmn arable, till it becomes a viscous paste. 
Apply it with a brush to the fractured edges, and draw the parts 
closely together. 

Cement for Mending Steam Boilers. — Mix two parts of finely pow- 
dered litharge with one part of very fine sand, and one part of 
quicklime which has been allowed to slack spontaneously by ex- 
posure to the air. This mixture may be kept for any length of 
time witnout injury.. In using it a portion is mixed into paste 
with linseed oil, or, still better, boiled linseed oil. In this state 
it must be quickly applied, as it soon becomes hard. 

CJieap White House Faint. — Take skim milk, two quarts, eight 
ounces fresh slaked lime, six ounces linseed oil ; two ounces white 
Burgundy pitch, three pounds Spanish white. Slake the lime in 
water, expose it to the air, and mix in about one-quarter of the 
milk , the oil, in which the pitch is previously dissolved, to be add- 
ed, a little at the time ; then the rest of the milk, and afterwards 
the Spanish white. This quantity is sufficient for thirty square 
yards, two coats, and costs but a few cents. If the other colors 
are wanted, use, instead of Spanish white, other coloring matter. 

Composition for IIouse-Boofs. — Take one measure of fine sand, two 
of sifted wood-ashes, and three of lime, ground up with oil. Mix 
thoroughly, and lay on with a painter's brush, first a thin coat and 
then a thick one. This composition is not only cheap, but it 
strongly resists fire. 

Diamond Cement. — Isinglass, one ounce; distilled vinegar, five 
and a half ounces ; spirits of wiae, two ounces ; gum ammoniacum, 
half an ounce ; gum mastic, half an ounce. Mix well. 

French FoUsh. — To one pint of spirits of wine, add a quarter of 
an ounce of gum copal, quarter of an ounce of gum arable, and one 
ounce of shellac. Let the gums be well bruised, and sifted through a 
piece of muslin. Put the spirits and the gums together in a vessel 
that can bo closely corked ; place them near a warm stove, and fre- 
quently shake tliem ; in two or three days they will be dissolved ; 
strain the mixture through a piece of muslin, and keep it tightly 
corked for use. 

Furnilurc Oil for Folishing and Staining Mahogany. — Take of lin- 
seed oil, ojie galloii; alkanet root, three ounces'; rose pink, one 
ounce. Boil thc^n together ten minutes, and strain so that the oil 
be quite clear. The furniture should be well rubbed witli it every 
day until llio polish is brought up, which will be more durable 
than any other. 



MAXUFACTUBERS- DEPARTMENT. , " 

Olueforre,^ .> -To - quantity o. f^^<Z^^^ 

Lofut^aVr three or itl:y!%^'^r. it .ill be flt for use w.th- 

make a mistake, and gf.>;^f;j'',f'\par yellow. Now, take halt 
former is orange rexl. and the lattei^ bi-chromate of 

an ounce of extract of logwood and ten gra^ ^^^^^^^. ^^^^^^^ 

potash, and dissolve them in a qviatot hot ^^^^^^^^^ ^^^ ^ ^^^^^^^^ 

TntSLrtleTcftr ^TlSrisTflrltan intense steel U„e, 
but becomes quite black. 

r.rrt™„'g'lU-'"anfS>e„1-o'u'\linha^^nir enough ,or a .-hn. 

r,t k'^' ««'e i^iacfc-Take twelve ,— of bed , s five 

pomfds of gum Senegal, A™ P°""''f,tif .t.nswftrnine gallons of 

twelve gallons of i-^'" ^fn^ fSwate? to replace what is lost 
water for three hours adcUngflesll^^Mc '^^^^^ „„ the clear 

ji^,rra^iV°oita^jtLrec?:x^^^^^^ 

su^lphate of iron separately, and m.x th«;^';° ^ t^ree- 

..Sefs'^Tn^o^Stut^SrprdW-d^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 

^i: St.^u.^e^. P^t^.^-g;-„- ^: 

¥^^f a'^SSA'.Trrron pt^oses. and is very cheap. AVe 

:iLS?f 5ll fcSS.iS,^SsJr -Sl^irrteaspoonful of 

" ..«>..-To four arachn. of^l^;— ^ reirpulve?£ 
of water, add (» drops of nutga-temad^^^^^^^^ .^ ^^ ,^^ 

;;\rl?aS^^iS,rtffw;^giy^^^ 

b?J^:!l;ss!!J^^;V" ^"tr^p^ ^^''^ ^'"^ '-' ^"^ '™" ^'^^ 



arable dissolved in it. 
cloth; then write. 



18 • OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

Ink, Indelible Marking. — One and a half drachms of nitrate of sil- 
ver, one ounce of distilled water, half an ounce of strong mucilage 
of gum arable, three-quarters of a drachm of liquid ammonia. 
Mix the above in a clean glass bottle, cork tightly, and keep in a 
dark place till dissolved, and ever afterwards. Directions for use : 
Shake the bottle, then dip a clean quill pen in the ink, and write or 
draw what you require on the article ; immediately hold it close 
to the fire (without scorching), or pass a hot iron over it, and it 
will become a deep and indelible black, indestructible by either 
time or acids of any description. 

Ink, Indestructible. — On many occasions it is of importance to em- 
ploy an ink indestructible by any process, that will not equally de- 
stroy the material on which it is applied. For black ink, twenty- 
five grains of copal, in powder, are to be dissolved in two hundred 
grains of oil of lavender, by the assistance of a gentle heat, and are 
then to be mixed with two and a half grains of lampblack and half 
a grain of indigo. This ink is particularly useful for labelling 
phials, &c., containing chemical, substances of a corrosive nature. 

Ink for Marking Linen loith Type. — Dissolve one part of asphaltum 
in four parts of oil of turpentine, and lamp-black or black-lead, in 
fine powder, in sufficient quantity to render of proper consistency 
to print with type. 

Ink Powder for Immediate Use. — Keduce to powder ten ounces of 
gall-nuts, three ounces of green copperas, two ounces each of pow- 
dered alum and gum arable. Put a little of this mixture into 
white wine, and it will be fit for immediate use. 

Ink Stains. — The moment the ink is spilled, take a little milk, 
and saturate the stain, soak it up with a rag, and apply a little 
more milk, rubbing it well in. In a few minutes the ink will be 
completely removed. 

Red Ink. — Take of the raspings of Brazil wood, quarter of a 
pound, and infuse them two or three days in colorless venegar. 
Boil the infusion one hour and a half over a gentle fire, and after- 
ward filter it while hot, through paper laid in an earthenware cul- 
lender. Put it again over the fire, and dissolve in it first half an 
ounce of gum arable, and afterward of alum and white sugar each 
half an ounce. Care should be taken that the Brazil wood be not 
adulterated with the Braziletto or campeachy wood. 

Transfer Ink. — Mastic in tears, four ounces ; shellac, six oz. ; 
Venice turpentine, half an ounce ; melt together; add wax, half a 
pound ; tallow, three ounces. When dissolved, further add hard 
tallow soap (in shavings), three ounces ; and when the whole is 
combined, add lampblack, two ounces. Mix well, cool a little, 
and then pour it into molds. This ink is rubbed down with a lit- 



MAXUFACTURERS' DEPARTMENT. 19 

tie water in a cup or saucer, in the same way as water-color cakes. 
In winter, the operation should be performed near the fire. 

Indian Glues. — Take one pound of the best glue, the^stronger the 
better, boil it and strain it very clear ; boil also four ounces of is- 
inglass; put the mixture into a double glue pot, add half a pound 
of brown sugar, and boil the whole until it gets thick ; then pour 
it into thin plates or molds, and when cold you may cut and dry 
them in small pieces for the pocket. The glue is used by merely 
holding it over steam, or wetting it with the mouth. This is a 
most useful and convenient article, being much stronger than com- 
mon glue. It is sold under the name of Indian glue, but is much 
less expensive in making, and is applicable to all kinds of small 
fractures, etc. ; answers well on the hardest woods, and cements 
china, etc., though, of course, it will not resist the action of hot 
water. For parchment and paper, in lieu of gum or paste, it will 
be found equally convenient. 

Japanese Cement. — Intimately mix the best powdered rice with a 
little cold water, then gradually add boiling water until a proper 
consistence is acquired, being particularly careful to keep it well 
stirred all the time ; lastly, it must be boiled for one minute in a 
clean saucepan or earthern pipkin. This glue is beautifully white 
and almost transparent, for which reason it is well adapted for 
fancy paper work, which requires a strong and colorless cement. 

Liquid Blacking. — Mix a quarter of a pound of ivory-black, six 
gills of vinegar, a tablespoonful of sweet oil, and two large spoon- 
fuls of molasses. Stir the whole well together, and it will then be 
fit for use. 

Liquid Glue. — Dissolve one part of powdered alum, one hundred 
and twenty parts of water ; add one hundred and twenty parts of 
glue, ten of acetic acid, and forty of alcohol, and digest. Prepar- 
ed glue is made by dissolving common glue in warm water, and 
then adding acetic acid (strong vinegar; to keep it. Dissolve one 
pound of best glue in one and a half pints of water, and add one 
pint of vinegar. It is then ready for use. 

Matjic Copi/lng Paper. — To make black paper, lampblack mixed 
with cold lard ; red paper, Venetian red mixed with lard ; blue 
paper, Prussian blue mixed with lard ; green paper, Chrome green 
mixed with lard. The above ingredients to be mixed to the con- 
sistency of thick paste, and to be applied to the paper with a rag. 
Then take a fiannel rag, and rub until all color ceases coming oif. 
Cut your sheets four inches wide and six inches long; put four 
sheets together, one of each color, and sell for twenty-five cents 
per package. The first cost will not exceed three cents. 

Directions for writing with this paper : Lay down your paper 



20 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

npon which you wish to write ; then lay on the copying paper, and 
over this lixj any scrap of paper you choose ; then take any hard 
pointed substance and write as you would with a pen. 

Mahogany Stain. — Break two ounces of dragon's blood in pieces, 
and put them in a quart of rectified spirits of wine ; let the bottle 
stand in a warni place, and shake it frequently. When dissolved, 
it is fit for use, and will render common wood an excellent imita- 
tion of mahogany. 

Marine Glue. — Dissolve four parts of India-rubber in thirty-four 
parts of coal tar naptha, aiding the solution with heat and agita- 
tion. The solution is then thick as cream, and it should be added 
to sixtj^-four parts of powdered shellac, which must be heated in 
the mixture till all is dissolved. While the mixture is hot it is 
poured on plates of metal, in sheets lilce leather. It can be kept 
in that state, and when it is required to be used, it is put into a 
pot and heated till it is soft, and then applied with a brush to the 
surfaces to be Joined. Two pieces of wood joined with this ce- 
ment can scarcely be sundered. 

Parchment. — Paper parchment may be produced by immersing 
paper in a concentratic solution of chloride of zinc. 

Amalgam of Gold. — Place one part of gold in a small iron sauce- 
pan or ladle, perfectly clean, then add 8 parts of mercury, and ap- 
ply a gentle heat, when the gold will dissolve ; agitate the mix- 
ture for one minute, and pour it out on a clean plate or stone slab. 

For gilding brass, copper etc. The metal to be gilded is first 
nibbed over with a solution of nitrate of mercury, and then cover- 
ed with A very thin film of the amalgam. On heat being applied 
the mercury volatilizes, leaving the gold behind. 

A much less proportion of gold is often employed than the 
above, where a very thin and cheap gilding is required, as by in- 
creasing tlie quantity of the mercury, the precious metal may be 
(extended over a much larger surface. A similar amalgam prepar- 
ed with silver is used for silvering. 

Amalgam for Mirrors.— JjiQuA and tin, each 1 oz; bismuth, 2 oz; 
mercury, 4"oz. ; melt as before, and add the mercuiy. These are 
used to silver mirrors, glass globes, etc., by warming the glass, 
melting the amalgam, and applying it. 

Annealing Steel. — 1. For a small quantity. Heat the steel to a 
cherry red in a charcoal fire, then bury in sawdust, in an iron box, 
covering the sawdust with ashes. Let stay until cold. — 2. For a 
larger quantity, and when it is required to be very "soft." • Pack 
the steel with cast iron (lathe or planer) chips in an iron box, as 
follows : Having at least h or | inch in depth of chips in the bot- 
tom of the box, put in a layer of steel, then more chips to fill 



MANUFACTURERS' DEPARTMENT. 21 

spaces between the steel, and also the |- or f inch space between 
the sides of box and steel, then more steel ; and lastly, at least 1 
inch in depth of chips, well rammed down on top of steel. Heat 
to and keep at a red heat for from two to fom- hours. Do not dis- 
turb the box until cold. 

To make Bell Metal— 1. Melt together under powdered charcoal, 
100 parts of pure copper, with 20 parts of tin, and unite the two 
metals by frequently stirring the mass. Product very fine.— 2. 
Copper 3 parts ; tin 1 part ; as above. Some of the finest church 
bells in the world have this composition.— 3. Copper 2 parts : tin 
1 part ; as above. — 4. Copper 72 parts ; tin 2Gi parts ; iron Ih parts. 
The bells of small clocks or pendules are made of this alloy in 
Paris. 

Brass to Make. 1. Fine Brass.— 2 parts of copper to 1 part of zinc. 
This is nearly one equivalent each of copper and zinc, if the equiva- 
lent of the former metal be taken at 63-2 ; or 2 equivalents of cop- 
per to 1 equivalent of zine, if it be taken with Liebig and Berze- 
lius, at 31-6. 

2. Copper d parts, zinc 1 part. An excellent and very useful 
brass. • 

Cleansinq Solution for Brass.— Fut together two ounces sulphuric 
acid, an ounce and'^a half nitric acid, one dram saltpetre and two 
ounces rain water. Let stand for a few hours, and apply by pass- 
ing the article in and out quickly, and then washing off thoroughly 
with clean rain water. Old, discolored brass chains treated in 
this way will look equally as well as when new. The usual 
method of drying as in sawdust. 

To Cover Brass with beautiful Luster Colors.— One ounce of cream of 
tartar is dissolved in one quart of hot water, to which is added 
half an ounce of tin salt (protochloride of tin) dissolved in four 
ounces of cold water. The wliole is then heated to boiling, the 
clear solution decanted from a trifling precipitate, and poured un- 
der continual stirring into a solution of three ounces hyposulphite 
of soda in one-half a pint of water, whereupon it is again heated 
to boiling, ojnd filtered from the separated sulphur. This solution 
produces on brass the various luster-colors, depending on the 
length of time during which the articles are allowed to remain in 
it. The colors at first will be light to dark, gold yellow, passing 
through all the tints of red to an irridescent brown. A similar 
series of colors is produced by sulphide of copper and lead, which, 
however, are not remarkable for their stability ; whether this de- 
fect will be obviated by the use of the tin solution, experience and 
time alone can show. 

Bronzin/j Gun-Barrels.— The so-called butter of zinc used for 



22 OUR KyOWLEDGE BOX. 

bronzing gun-barrels is made by dissolving zinc in hydrochloric 
acid till no more free acid is loft ; which is secured by i^lacing 
zinc in the acid until it ceases to be dissolved. The liquid is then 
evaporated until a drop taken out and placed on a piece of glass 
solidifies in cooling, when it is mixed with 2 parts of olive oil for 
every three parts of the liquid. The barrels must be cleansed 
and warmed before applying the so-called butter, which put on 
with a jnece of linen rag. 

Bronzing Fluid. — For brown : Iron filings, or scales, 1 lb. ; arsen- 
ic, 1 oz. ; hydrochloric acid, 1 lb. ; metallic zinc,' 1 oz. The arti- 
cle to be bronzed is to bo dipped in this solution till the desired 
effect be produced. 

Bronze, Green. — Acetic acid, diluted, 4 lbs ; green veriter, 2 oz. ; 
muriate of ammonia, 1 oz. ; common salt, 2 oz. ; alum, ^ oz. ; 
French berries, ^ lb. ; boil them together till the berries have 
yielded their color, and strain. Olive bronze, for brass or copper. 
— Nitric acid, 1 oz. ; hydrochloric acid, 2 oz. ; titanium or palla- 
dium, as much as will dissolve, and add three pints of distilled 
water. 

To Soften Cast-iron, for^DrilUng. — Heat to a cherry" red, having it 
lie level in the fire, then with a pair-of cold tongs put on a piece of 
1>rinistone, a little less in size than you wish the hole to be when 
drilled, and it softens entirely through the piece ; let it lie in the fire 
until a little cool, when it is ready to drill. 

To Weld Cast-iron.— Take of good clear white sand, three parts ; 
refined solton, one part ; fosterine, one part ; rock-salt, one part ; 
mix all together. Take 2 pieces of cast-iron, heat them in a mod- 
crate charcoal-fire, occasionally taking them out while heating, 
and dipping them into the composition, until they are of a proper 
heat to weld ; then at once lay them on the anvil, and gently ham- 
mer them together, and, if done carefully by one wdio understands 
welding iron, you will have them nicelj' welded together. One 
man prefers heating the metal, then cooling it in the water of 
common beans, and heat it again for welding. 

To reeut old Files and Basps. — Dissolve 4 oz. of saleratus in 1 quart 
of water, and boil the files in it for half an hour ; then remove, 
wash ancl dry them. Now have ready, in a glass or stoneware 
vessel, 1 quart of rain water, into which you have slowly added 4 
oz. of best sulphuric acid, and keep the proportions for any 
amount used. Immerse the files in this preparation for from six 
to twelve hours, according to fineness or coarseness of the files ; 
then remove, wash them clean, dry quickly, and put a little sweet 
oil on them to cover the surface. If the files are coarse, they will 
need to remain in about twelve hours, but for fine files six to eight 



MANUFACTURERB' DEPARTMENT. 23 

hours is sufficient. This plan is applicable to blacksmiths', gun- 
smiths', tinners,' coppersmiths' lind machinists' files. Copper and 
tin workers will only require a short time to take the articles out 
of their files, as the soft metals with which they become filled ^^ 
soon dissolved. Blacksmiths' and saw-mill files require full time. 
Files may be recut three times by this process. The liquid may 
be used at different times if required. Keep away from children, 
as it is poisonous. 

TloIsI, Browning for Gun-Barreh. — Take spirits of nitre | oz. ; 
tincture of steel, \ oz. : (if the tincture of steel cannot be obtained, 
the unmedicated tincture of iron may be used, but it is not so 
good) black brimstone, \ oz. ; blue vitriol, I oz. ; corrosive subli- 
mate, \ oz. ; nitric acid, 1 dr. or 60 drops •" copperas, I oz. ; mix 
with 1^ pts. of rain water, keep corked, also, as the other, and the 
process of applying is also the same. 

Gun MeM.—l. Melt together 112 lbs. of Bristol brass, 14 lbs. of 
spelter, and 7 lbs. of block tin.— 2. Melt together 9 parts of copper 
and 1 part of tin ; the above compounds are those used in the 
manufacture of small and great brass guns, swivels, etc. 

Chinese Method of Mending Holes in Iron. — The Chinese mend holes 
in cast-iron vessels as follows : They melt a small quantity of iron 
in a crucible the size of a thimble, and pour the molten metal on a 
piece of felt covered with wood-ashes. This is pressed inside the 
vessel against the hole, and as it exudes on the other side it is 
struck by a small roll of felt covered with ashes. The new iron 
then adheres to the old. 

Common Pewter.— Melt in a crucible 7 lbs. of tin, and when fused 
throw in 1 lb. of lead, G oz. of copper and 2 oz. of zinc. This com- 
bination of metal will form an alloy of great durability and tenaci- 
ty ; also of considerable luster. 

Best Pewter.— The best sort of pewter consists of 100 parts of tin, 
and 17 of regulus of antimony. 

Hard Pewter.— Melt together 12 lbs. of tin, 1 ib. of regulus of an- 
timony, and 4 oz. of copper. 

To Mend Broken Saws.—'Puve silver, 19 parts: pure copper, 1 
part : pure brass, 2 parts ; all are to be filed into powder and inti- 
mately mixed. Place the saw level upon the anvil, the broken 
edges in close contact, and hold them so : now put a small line of 
the mixture along the seam, covering it with a large bulk of pow- 
dered charcoal ; now with a spirit lamp and a jeweler's blow-pipe, 
hold the coal-dust in place, and blow sufficient to melt the solder 
mixture : then with a hammer set the joint smooth, if not already 
so, and file away any superfluous solder ; and you will be surpris- 
ed at its strength. * 



24 OUB KNO WLED GE B OX. 

Solder, to Adhere to Brass or Copper. — Prepare a soldering solu- 
tion in tliis wa}' : Pour a small quantity of muriatic acid on some 
zinc filings, so as to completely cover the zinc. Let it stand about 
c#! hour, and then pour off the acid, to which add twice its amount 
of water. By lirst wetting the brass or copper with this prepara- 
tion, the solder will readily adhere. 

Common Solder. — Put into a crucible 2 lbs. of load, and when 
melted throw in 1 lb. of tin. This alloy is that generally known 
by the name of solder. When heated by a hot iron and applied to 
tinned iron with powdered rosin, it acts as a cement or solder. 

Tempermg Steel. — For tempering many kinds of tools, the steel is 
first hardened by heating it to a cherry red, and plunging it into 
cold water. Afterward the temper is drawn by moderately heat- 
ing the steel again. Different degrees of hardness are required 
for different purposes, and the degree of heat for eacl^ of these, 
with the corresponding color, will be found in the annexed table : 

Very pale straw color, 430° — the temper required for lancets. 

A shade of darker j^ellow, 450° — for razors and surgical instru- 
ments. 

Darker straw-yellow, 470° — for penknives. 

Still darker yellow, 490° — chisels for cutting iron. 

A brown yellow, 500° — axes and plane-irons. 

Yellow, slightly tinged with purple, 520° — table-knives and 
watch-springs. 

Tempering Liquid. — 1. To G quarts of soft water put in corrosive 
sublimate, 1 oz. ; common salt, 2 handfuls; when dissolved it is 
ready for use. The first gives toughness to the steel, whil^ the 
latter gives the hardness. Be careful with this preparation, as it 
is a dangerous poison. — 2. Salt, ^ teacup ; saltpetre, h oz. ; alum, 
pulverized, 1 tea-spoon ; soft water, 1 gallon ; never'heat over a 
cherry red, nor dr^w any temper. — 3. Saltpetre, sal-ammoniac, 
and alum, of each 2 oz. ; salt, Ih lljs. ; water, 3 gallons, and draw 
no temper. — 4. Saltpetre and alum, each 2 oz. ; sal-ammoniac, | 
oz. ; salt, li lbs. ; soft water, 2 gallons. Heat to a cherry red, and 
plunge in, drawing no temper. 

Bayherry, or Myrtle Soap. — Dissolve two and a quarter poimds of 
white potash in five quarts of water, then mix it with ton pounds 
of myrtle wax, or bayberry tallow. Boil the whole over a slow 
fire till it turns to soap, then add a teacup of cold water ; lot it boil 
ton minutes longer; at the end of that time turn it into tin molds 
or pans, and let them remain a week or ten days to dry ; tlien 
. turn them out of the molds. If you wish to iftive the soap scented, 



MANUFACTURERS- DEPARTMENT. 25 

stir into it an essential oimat has ^-f^;f^fii^^^ 
you turn it into the molds Tliis <;"« °' =°/tor eruptions on 
Laving, and to^'-Pftorreln th'cot^e'S three or tiur weeks 
StVr'ltJmade bSt Tt^ffbetter for being kept ten or twelve 

T/l"e«i Soap, (for taking OH, Grease etefrom^ ^i.^^'^t'^sott 
five pounds ^''^ai^ «X^- «" ^""'onrand a half ounVe^ lampblack ; 
water; 1"'° 7"««f„X Y^'e o^^^cefpotash ; one ounce of cam- 
two ounces of saltpetie , l''lf°"J" \ Dowder. Fii-st dissolve 

the course of the week, All the barrel with weak lej . 

Genuine Erasa. foa^-^SJ^^^l ifl^flf a^^ oflfo=t waU.- 
pound of carbonate « .Potaf^Jl hoiTthe soa with the potash until 
Lt the soap in th'°,f "f'^iTln ?akes ; als'o add alco'hol, half an 
IVL' tml5CfL"f r-o'^rf ?t^horn, half an ounce; colo, 
wmi halt an ounce of pulverized charcoal. 

"K„.crm«.S,»p.-Toflftee„pou^^^^^ 

ing hot, add «lo-ly si^ ga lonso hot^^ o, ^ ^.^ ^^ 

that will bear up an egg high c"°^f . j^ j, no 'grease rise it 
shilling bare ^''koX nnne^^T add ley and boirtiU no greaso 

cut in cakes sal-soda, two pounds of 

labor-Sxiwj Soap.-J^^>>J^^"V°^'\ ^,^,j ^^e soap in thm 

yellow bar soap, and ten qua te °' ^^"'h V and it will bo fit 

roaT''Tre-wiufeed'noX.i; merely rinse them out, and 
tl°CT'wm be perfectly clean and white. 

of soft soap, to >vh>ch add a g^ «« '«» n ° ^(^ ,, ^ the crude two 
;:'Ss oJ^^atSSt^;SS/i;?t;*saUons of soft water tiU dis- 



26 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX, 

solved. If you wish it better, slice two pounds of common bar 
soap and dissolve in the above. If the soft soap mali:es more than 
three pounds of crude, add in proportion to the sal-soda and water. 

To Make Hard Soap from Soft — Take seven pounds of good soft 
soap ; four pounds sal-soda ; two ounces borax ; one ounce harts- 
horn ; half a pound of resin ; to be dissolved in twenty-two quarts 
of water, and boiled about twenty minutes. 

Whcde Oil Soap (for the destruction of Insects.)— Kender common 
ley caustic, by boiling it at full strength on quicklime ; then take 
the ley and boil it Avith as much whale oil foot as it will saponify 
(change to soap), pour off into molds, and, when cold, it is tolera- 
bly hard. Whale oil foot is the sediment produced in refining 
whale oil, and is worth two dollars per barrel. 

Soluble Glass. — Mix ten parts of carbonate of potash, fifteen parts 
of powdered quartz, and one pound of charcoal. Fuse well to- 
gether. The mass is soluble in four or five parts of boiling water, 
and the filtered solution, evaporated to dryness, yields a transpar- 
ent glass, permanent in the air. 

To Make Eggs of Pharaoh's Serpents. — Take mercury and dissolve 
it in moderately diluted nitric acid by means of heat, taking care, 
however, that there be always an excess of metallic mercury re- 
maining ; decant the solution and pour it into a solution of sulpho- 
cyanide of ammonium or potassium, which may be bought at a 
good drug store, or of a dealer in chemicals. Equal weights of 
both will answer. A precipitate Avill fall to the bottom of the 
beaker or jar, which is to be collected on a filter and washed two 
or three times with water, Avhen it is put in a warm plac(i to dry. 
Take for every pound of this material one ounce of gum traga- 
canth which has been soaked in hot water. When the gum is 
completely softened it is to be transferred to a mortar, and the 
pulverized and dried precipitate gradually mixed witli it by means 
of a little water, so as to present a somewhat dry i)ill mass, from 
which by hand pellets of the desired size are formed, put on a 
piece of glass, and dried again ; they are then ready for use. 

Tracing Paper. — In order to prepare a beautiful transparent, col- 
orless paper, it is best to employ the varnish formed with Demara- 
ra resin in the following way : The sheets intended for this pur- 
pose are laid flat on each other, and the varnish spread over the 
uppermost sheet with a brush, until the paper appears perfectly 
colorless, without, however, the liquid theroou being visible. The 
first sheet is then removed, hung up for drying, and the second 
treated in the same manner. After l)eing dried, this paper is ca- 
pable of being written on, either with "chalk or pencil, or steel 
pens. It preserves its colorless transparency without becoming 



THE TOILET, PERFUMERY, ETC. 27 

yellow, as is frequently the case with that- prepared in any other 
way, 

Unsurnassahle Blocking. — Put one gallon of vinegar into a stone 
jug, and one pound wf ivory-black well pulverized, half a pound of 
loaf sugar, halt' an ounce of oil of vitriol, and seven ounces of 
sweet oil. Incorporate the whole by stirring. 

2. Take twelve ounces each of ivory-black and molasses ; sper- 
maceti oil, four ounces ; and white wine vinegar, two quarts. 
Mix thoroughly. This contains no vitriol, and therefore will not 
injure the leather. The trouble of making it is very little, and it 
would be well to prepare it for one's self, were it only to be assur- 
ed that it is not injurious. 

Varnish for Iron Work.— To make a good black varnish for iron 
work, take eight pounds of asphaltum and fuse it in an iron ket- 
tle ; then add five gallons of boiled linseed oil, one pound of 
litharge, half a pound of sulphate of zinc (add these slowly, or it 
will fume over), and boil them for about three hours. Now add 
one and a half pounds of dark gum amber, and boil for two hours 
longer, or until the mass will become quite thick when cool, after 
Which it should be thinned with turpentine to due consistency. 



THE TOILET, PERFUMEEY, Etc. 

Hair Restorers and Invigorators. — There are hundreds; Lyon's, 
Wood's, Barry's, Bogle's, Jayne's, Storr's, Baker's, Driscol's, Pha- 
lon's, Haskel's, Allen's, Spaulding's, etc. But, though all under 
different names, are similar in principle, being vegetable oils dis- 
solved in alcohol, with the addition of spirit of soap, and an astrin- 
gent material, such as tincture of catechu, or infusion of bark. 
The best is to dissolve one ounce of castor oil in one quart of 95 
alcohol, and add one ounce of tincture of cantharides, two ounces 
of tincture of catechu, two ounces of lemon juice, two ounces of 
tincture of cinchona ; and to scent it, add oil of cinnamon, or oil of 
rosemary, or both. 

To Make the Hair Soft and Glossy.— Twt one ounce of castor oil in 
one pint of bay rum or alcohol, and color it with a little of the tinc- 
ture of alkanet root. Apply a little every morning. 

Instantaneous Hair Dye. — Take one drachm of nitrate of silver, 
and add to it just sufficient rain water to dissolve it, and no more; 
then take strong spirit of ammonia, and gradually pour on the so- 
lution of silver, until it becomes as clear as water, (the addllion of 



28 O UR KNO WLED GE BOX. 

Ihe ammonia at first makes it Jyt^own) ; then wrap round the bottle two 
or three covers of blue paper, to exclude the light — otherwise it 
will spoil. Having made this, obtain two drachms of gallic acid ; 
put this into another bottle which will contain one-half pint ; pour 
upon it hot water, and let it stand until cold — when it is fit for use. 

Directions to Dye the Hair. — First Wash the head, beard, or mous- 
taches with soap and water ; afterwards with clean water. Dry, 
and apply the gallic acid solution, with a clean brush. When it is 
almost dry, take a small tooth comb, and with a fine brush, put on 
the teeth of the comb a little of the silver solution, and comb it 
througli the hair, when it will l^ecome a brilliant jet black. Wait 
a few hours ; then wash the head again with clean water. If you 
want to make a brown dye, add double or treble the quantity of 
water to the silver solution, and you can obtain any shade of color 
you choose. 

To Prevent Gray Hair. — When the hair begins to change color, 
the use of the following pomade has a beneficial effect in prevent- 
ing the disease extending, and has the character of even restoring 
the color of the hair in many instances : Lard, 4 ounces : sperma- 
ceti, 4 drachms : oxide of bismuth, 4 drachms. Melt the lard and 
spermaceti together, and when getting cold stir in the bismuth ; to 
this can be added any kind of perfume, according to choice. It 
should be used whenever the hair re(|uires dressing. It must not 
bo imagined that any good effect speedily results ; it is, in general, 
a long time taking place, the change being very gradual. 

Liquid Rouge for the Complexion. — Four ounces of alcohol, two 
ounces of water, twenty grains of carmine; twenty grains of am- 
monia; six grains of oxalic acid, six grains of alum — mix. 

Vinegar Rouge. — Cochineal, three drachms ; carmine lake, three 
drachms ; alcohol, six drachms ; mix, and then put into one pint of 
vinegar, perfumed with lavender; let it stand a fortnight, then 
strain for use. 

Pearl Powder for Complexion. — Take white bismuth, one pound; 
starch powder, one ounce; orris powder, one ounce. Mix and 
sift through lawn. Add a drop of otto of roses or neroli. 

Pearl Water for ihe Complexion. — Castile soap, one pound ;*water, 
one gallon. Dissolve, then add alcohol, one quart; oil of rose- 
mary and oil of lavender, each two drachms. Mix well. 

Complexion Pomatum. — Mutton grease, one pound ; oxide of bis- 
muth, four ounces ; -powdered French chalk, two ounces ; mix. 

Feuchtwanger's Tooth Paste. — Powdered myrrh, two ounces ; burnt 
alum, one ounce ; cream tartar, one ounce ; cuttlefish bone, four 
ounces : drop lake, two ounces ; honey, half a gallon ; mix. 



THE TOILET, PERFUMERY, ETC. 29 

Spanish Vermilion for ilie Toiktie. —Taka an alkine solution of 
bastard saffron, and precipitate the color with lemon juice ; mix 
the precipitate with a sufficient quantity of finely powdered French 
chalk and lemon juice, then add a little perfume. 

Fine Tooth Powder. — Powdered orris root, one ounce ; peruvian 
bark, one ounce; prepared chalk, one ounce; myrrh, one-half 
ounce. 

To Make Brown Teeth White. — Apply carefully over the teeth, a 
stick dipped in strong acetic or nitric acid, and immediately wash 
out the mouth with cold water. To make the teeth even, if irregu- 
lar, draw a piece of fine cord betwixt them. 

Superior Cologne Water. — Alcohol, one gallon : add oil of cloves, 
lemon, nutmeg and bergamot, each one drachm ; oil neroli, three 
and a half drachms ; seven drops of oils of rosemary, lavender and 
cassia ; half a pint of spirits of nitre ; half a pint "of elder-flower 
water. Let it stand a day or two, then take a cullender and at the 
bottom lay a piece of white cloth, and fill it up, one-fourth of 
white sand, and filter through it. 

Smelling Salts. — Super carbonate of ammonia, eight parts; put 
it in coarse powder into a bottle, and pour out lavender oil one 
part. 

Oil of Roses^or the Hair. — Olive oil, two pints : otto of roses, 
one drachm ; oil of rosemary, one drachm ; mix. It maj' be color- 
ed by steeping a little alkanet root in the oil (by heat) before 
scenting it. 

Arnica Hair Wash. — When the hair is falling off and becoming 
thin, from the too frequent use of castor. Macassar oils, &c., or 
when premature baldness arises from illness, the arnica hair wash 
will be found of great service in arresting the mischief. It is thus 
prepared: take elder water, half a pint; sherry wine, half a pint; 
tincture of arnica, half an ounce ; alcoholic ammonia, 1 drachm — 
if this last named ingredient is old, and has lost its strength, then 
two drachms instead of one may be employed. The whole of 
these arc to be mixed in a lotion bottle, and applied every night to 
the head with a sponge. Wash the head with warm water twice a 
week." Soft brushes only must be used during the growth of the 
young hair. 

Ammoniacal Pomatum for Promoting the Growth of Hair. — Take al- 
mond oil, quarter of a pound ; white wax, half an ounce ; clarified 
lard, three ounces ; liquid ammonia, a quarter fiuid ounce ; otto of 
lavender, and cloves, of each one drachm. Place the oil, wax and 
lard in a jar, which set in boiling water ; when the wax is melted, 
allow the grease to cool till nearly ready to set, then stir in the 



30 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

ammonia and the perfume, and put into small jars for use. Ke^'^er 
use a hard brush, nor comb the hair too much. Apply the pomade 
at night only. 

Bandoline for the Hair. — This mixture is best made a little at 
a time. Pour a tablespoonful of boiling water on a dozen quince 
seeds, and repeat when fresh is required. 

Artificial Bear's Grease. — Bear's grease is imitated by a mixture 
of prepared veal suet and beef marrow. It may be scented at 
pleasure. The following are some of the best compounds sold by 
that name : 

1. Prepared suets, 3 ounces; lard, 1 ounce; olive oil, 1 ounce; 
oil of cloves, 10 drops ; compound tincture of benzoin, 1 drachm. 
Mix. 

2. Lard, 1 pound; solution of carbonate of potash, 2 ounces. 
Mix. 

3. Olive oil, 3 pints ; white wax, 3 ounces ; spermaceti, 1 ounce ; 
scent with oil of roses and oil of bitter almonds. 

Bears' Oil. — The best description of lard oil, properly perfumed, 
is far preferable to any other kind of oil. 

Cosmetic Soap, for Washing the Hands. — Take a pound of castilo 
soap, or any other nice old soap ; scrape it fme ; put it on the fire 
vdth a little water, stir it to a smooth paste ; turn it into a bowl ; 
or any kind of essence ; beat it with a silver spoon till well mixed ; 
thicken it with Indian meal, and keep it in small pots, closely cov- 
ered ; exposure to the air will harden it. 

Cosmetic Wash for ike Hair. — Bed wine, one pound ; salt, one 
drachm ; sulphate of iron, two drachms ; boil for a few minutes, 
add common verdigris, one drachm ; leave it on the fire two min- 
utes ; withdraw it, and add two drachms of powdered nutgall. 
Bub the hair with the liquid, in a few minutes dry it with a warm 
cloth, and afterwards wash with water. 

To Bemove Bandruff.—TaikQ a thimbleful of pow^dered refined 
borax, let it dissolve in a teacupful of water, fii-st brusli the head 
well, then wet a brush and apply it to the head. Do this every 
day for a week, and twice a week for a few times, and you will ef- 
fectually remove the dandruff. 

To Make the Complexion Fair. — Take emulsion of bitter almonds, 
one pint ; oxy muriate of quicksilver, two and a half gr^^ xns ; sal 
ammonia, one drachm. Use moderately for pimples, ireekles, 
tanned complexions. 

Eau de Cologne — Cologne Water. — Oil of lavender, oil of bergamot, 
oil of lemon, oil of neroli, each one ounce ; oil of cinnamon, half 



THE TOILET, PERFUMERY, ETC. 31 

an ounce ; spirit of rosemary, fifteen ounces ; highly rectified spir- 
its, eight pints. Let them stand fourteen days; then distil in a 
water bath. 

2, Essential oils of bergamot, lemon, neroli, orange-peel and 
rosemary, each twelve drops ; cardamon seeds, one drachm, recti- 
fied spirits, one pint. It improves by age, 

Ean de Roskres.— Spirits of roses, 4 pints ; spirits of jessamine, 
one pint; spirits of orange flowers, one pint; spirits of cucumber, 
two and a quarter pints ; spirits of celery seed, two and a quarter 
pints ; spirits of angelica root, two and three quarter pints ; tinc- 
ture of benzoin, three quarters of a pint ; balsam of Mecca, a few 
drops. 

Eau de Violdtes. — Macerate five ounces of fine orris root in a quart 
of rectified spirits, for some days, and filter. 

Esprit de Bouquet. — Oil of lavender, oil of cloves and oil of berga- 
mot, each two drachms ; otto of rose, and oil of cinnamon, each, 
twenty drops ; essence of musk, one drachm ; rectified spirits, one 
pint. Mix. 

Essence of Amhergria.Spirits of wine, half a pint ; ambergris, 24 
grains. Let it stand for three days in a warm place, and filter. 

Essence of Bergamot.— Spirits of wine, half a pint ; bergamot-peel, 
four ounces : as above. 

Essence of Cedrat. — Essence of bergamot, one ounce ; essence of 
neroli, two drachms. 

Essence of C/oces.— Spirits of wine, half a pint; bruised cloves, 
one ounce. 

Essence for the Headache.— Spirits of wine, two pounds ; roche 
alum, in fine powder, two ounces ; camphor, four ounces ; essence 
of lemon, half an ounce ; strong water of ammonia, four ounces. 
Stop the bottle close, and shake it daily, for three or four days. 

Essence of iatie?ider.— Essential oil of lavender, three and a half 
ounces; rectified spirits, two quarts; rose water, half a pint; 
tincture of orris, half a pint. 

Essence of Lemon.— Spirits of wine, half a pint ; fresh lemon-peel, 
four ounces. 

Essence of Musk.— Take one pint proof spirit, and add two 
drachms musk. Let it stand a fortnight, with frequent agitation. 

Essence of ^"ero?i.— Spirits of wine, half a pint ; orange-peel, cut 
small, three ounces ; orris root in powder, one drachm ; musk, two 
grains. 



32 UR KNO WLED GE B OX. 

Essence for Smelling Botlles. — Oil of lavender and essence of berga- 
mot, each one drachm ; oil of orange-peel, eight drops ; oil of cin- 
namon, four drops ; oil of neroli, two drops ; alcohol and strong- • 
est water of ammonia, each two ounces. 

Essence of Verbena Leaf. — Take rectified spirits of wine, half a 
pint ; otto of verbena, half a drachm ; otto of bergamot, one 
drachm ; tincture of tolu, quarter of an ounce. Mix them together, 
and it is ready for use. This sweet scent does not stain the hand- 
kerchief and is very economical. • 

Essence of Violets. — Spirits of wine, half a pint ; orris root, one 
ounce. Other essences in the same manner. 

Eye Water. — Take one pint of rose water, and add one teaspoon- 
f ul each of spirits of camphor and laudanum. Mix and bottle. To 
be shaken and applied to the eyes as often as necessary. Perfect- 
ly harmless. • 

Honey Water. — Kectified spirits, eight pints ; oil of cloves, oil of 
lavender, oil of bergamot, each half an ounce ; musk, eight grains ; 
yellow sandus shavings, four ounces ; digest for eight days and add 
two pints each of orange flower and rose water. 

' Lavender Water. — Oil of lavender, four ounces; spirit, three 
quarts ; rose water, one pint. Mix and filter. 

Lisbon Water. — To rectified spirit, one gallon, add essential oils 
of orange-peel and lemon-peel, of each three ounces, and otto of 
roses, one quarter of an ounce. 

Odoriferous Lavender Water. — Eectified spirit, five gallons ; essen- 
tial oil of lavender, twenty ounces ; oil of bergamot, five ounces ; 
essence of ambergris, half an ounce. 

2. Oil of lavender, threa drachms ; oil of bergamot, twenty drops ; 
nerolic, six drops; otto of roses, six drops; essence of cedrat, 
eight drops; essence of musk, twenty drops; rectified spirit, 
twenty-eight fluid ounces ; distilled water, four ounces. 

Queen of Hungary's Water. — Spirit of rosemary, four pints; orange 
flower water, one quarter of a pint; essence of neroli, four drops. 



FACE PAINTS. 33 



FACE PAINTS. 



Almond Bloom. — Boil one ounce of Brazil dust in three pints of 
distilled water, and strain ; add six drachms of isinglass, 2 drachms 
of cochineal, one ounce of alum, and eight drachms of borax ; boil 
again and strain through a fine cloth. 

Fine Carmine — (prepared from cochineal) is used alone, or de- 
duced with starch, &c. And also the coloring matter of safflower 
and other vegetable colors, in the form of pink saucers, &c. 

Face Powder. — Starch, one pound ; oxide of bismuth, four ounces. 

Face JVhites. — French chalk is one of the most innocent ; finely 
powdered. White starch is also used. 

Rouge. — Mix vermillion with enough gum tragacanth dissolved 
in water to form a thin paste ; add a few drops of almond oil, 
place the mixture in rouge pots, and dry by a very gentle heat. 

Turkish Rouge. — Take half pint alcohol and one ounce of alkanet ; 
macerate ten days and pour off the liquid, which should be bot- 
tled. This is the simplest and one of the best articles of the kind. 

Caution. — White lead, and all cosmetic powders containing it 
should never be applied to the skin, as it is the most dangerous ar- 
ticle that could be used. 

Mouth Pastiles, for Perfuming the Breath. — Extract of licorice, 
three ounces ; oil of cloves, one and a half drachms ; oil of cinna- 
mon, fifteen drops. Mix, and divide into one-grain pills, and sil- 
ver them. 

2. Catechu, seven drachms ; orris powder, forty grains ; sugar, 
three ounces ; oil of rosemary, (or of clove, peppermint, or cinna- 
mon,) four drops. Mix, and roll flat on an oiled marble slab, and 
cut into very small lozenges. 

OU fm- the Hair. — A very excellent ready-made oil for the hair 
which answers all common purposes, is made by mixing one part 
brandy with three parts of sweet oil. Add any scent you prefer. 

Oil of Roses. — Fine olive oil, one pint; otto of roses, sixteen 
drops. If required red, color with alkanet root, and strain before 
adding the otto. For common sale essence of bergamot or of 
lemon is often substituted, wholly or in part, for the expensive 
otto. 

2 



U UR KNO WLED QE B OX. 



HUNTEKS' AND TRAPPEES' SECRETS. 

The following secret applies to all animals, as every animal is 
attracted by the peculiar odor in a greater or less degree ; but it is 
best adapted to land animals, such as Foxes, Minks, Sables, Mar- 
tins, Wolves, Bears, Wild Ctits, &c., &c. 

Take one half pound strained honey, one quarter drachm musk, 
throe drachms oil of lavender, and four pounds of tallow, mix the 
■svhole thoroughly together, and make it into forty pills, or balls, 
and place one of these pills under the pan of each trap when set- 
ting it. 

The above preparation will most wonderfully attract all kinds of 
animals, and trappers and others who use it will be sure of success. 

To Catch Foxes. — Take oil of amber, and beaver's oil, each equal 
.parts, and rub them over the trap before setting it. Set in the 
usual way. 

To Catch Mink. — Take oil of amber, and beaver's oil, and rub 
over the trap. Bait with fish or birds. 

To Catch Muskrat. — In the female muskrat near the vagina is a 
small bag which holds from 30 to 40 drops. Now all the trapper 
has to do-, is to procure a few female muskrats and squeeze the 
contents of a bag into a vial. Now, when in quest of muskrats, 
sprinkle a few drops of the liquid on the bushes over and around 
the trap. This will attract the male muskrats in large numbers, 
and if the traps are properly arranged, large numbers of them may 
be taken. 

*^* In trapping Muskrats, steel traps should be used, and they 
should be set in the paths and runs of the animal, where they 
come upon the banks, and in every case the trap should be set un- 
der the water, and carefully concealed ; and care should be taken 
that it has sufficient length of chain to enable the animals to reach 
the water after being caught, otherwise they are liable to escape 
by tearing or gnawing off their legs. 

To Catch Beaver. — In trapping for beaver, set the trap at the edge 
of the water or dam, at the point where the animals pass from 
deep to shoal water, and alwaj^s beneath the surface, and fasten it 
by means of a stout chain to a picket driven in the bank, or to a 
bush or tree. A flat stick should be made fast to the trap by a 
cord a few feet long, which, if the animal chanced to carry away 
the trap, would tloat on the water and point out its position. The 
trap should then be baited with the following preparation, called 

^' The Beaver Medicine" 



HUNTEBS' AND TRAPPEBS' SECRETS. 35 

This is prepared from a substance called castor, and is obtained 
from the glandulous pouches of the male animal. 

The contents of five or six of these castor bags are mixed with a 
nutmeg, twelve or fifteen cloves and thirty grains of cinnamon in 
line powder, and the whole well stirred together with as much 
whiskey as will give it the consistency of mixed mustard. This 
preparation must be left closely corked up, and in four or five days 
the odor becomes powerful ; and this medicine smeared upon the 
bits of wood, &c., with wliich the traps are baited, will attract the 
beaver from a great distance, and wishing to make a close inspec- 
tion, the animal puts its legs into the trap and is caught. 

*^*The same caution in regard to length of chain should be ob- 
served for Beaver, as for Otters, Muskrats, &c., for unless they 
can reach the water they are liable to get out of the trap and es- 
cape. 

Chinese Art of Catching Fish.—Tsike Cocculus Indicus, pulverize 
and mix with dough, then scatter it broadcast over the water as 
you would sow seed. The fish will seize it with great avidity, and 
will instantly become so intoxicated that they will turn belly up 
on top of the water, by dozens, hundreds, or thousands, as the 
case may be. All that you now have to do, is to have a boat, or 
other convenience to gather them up, and as you gather put them 
m a tub of clean water and presently they will be as Hvely and 
healthy as ever. 

This means of taking fish, and the manner of doing it, has, here- 
tofore, been known to but few. The value of such knowledge ad- 
mits of no question. This manner of taking fish does not injure 
the flesh in the least. 

Secret Art of Catching fish.— Put the oil of rhodium on the bait, 
when fishing with the hook, and you will always succeed. 

To Catch Fish.—Tsike the juice of smallage or lovage, anl mix 
with any kind of bait. As long as there remain any kind of fish 
within many yards of your hook, you will find yourself busy pull- 
ing them out. '^ ^ 

To Catch Abundance of Eels, Fish, dtc.—Get over the water after 
dark, with a light and a dead fish that has been smeared with the 
juice of stinking glawdin— the fish will gather round you in large 
quantities, and can easily be scooped up. 



OUB KNOWLEDGE BOX. 



THE FINE AKTS AND SCIENCES. 

To Transfer Engravings to Plaster Casts. — Cover the plate with ink, 
polish its surface in the usual way, then put a wall of paper round ; 
then pour on it some fine paste made with plaster of Paris. Jerk 
it to drive out the air bubbles, and let it stand one hour, when you 
have a fine impression. 

The New and Beautiful Art of Transferring on to Glass. — Colored or 
plain Engravings, Photographs, Lithographs, Water Colors, Oil 
Colors, Crayons, Steel Plates, Newspaper Cuts, Mezzotinto, Pencil, 
Writing, Show Cards, Labels, — or in fact anything. 

^ Directions. — Take glass that is perfectly clear — ^window glass will 
answer — clean it thoroughly ; then varnish it, taking care to have 
it perfectly smooth ; place it where it will be entirely free from 
dust ; let it stand over night ; then take your engraving, lay it in 
clear water until it is wet through (say ten or fifteen minutes), 
then lay it upon a newspaper, that the moisture may dry from the 
surface, and still keep the other side damp. Immediately varnish 
your glass the second time, then place your engraving on it, press- 
ing it down firmly, so as to exclude every particle of air ; next rub 
the paper from the back, until it is of uniform thickness — so thin 
that you can see through it, then varnish it the third time, and let 
it dry. 

Materials Used for the Above Art. — Take two ounces balsam of fir, 
to one ounce of spirits of turpentine ; apply with a camel's hair 
brush. 

To Make Wax Flowers. — The following articles will be required 
to commence wax work : 2 lbs. white wax, J lb. hair wire, 1 bottle 
carmine, 1 ultramarine blue, 1 bottle chrome yellow, 2 bottles 
chrome green, No. 1 ;. 2 bottles chrome green. No. 2 ; 1 bottle rose 
pink, 1 bottle royal purple, 1 bottle scarlet powder, 1 bottle balsam 
fir, 2 dozen sheets white wax. This will do to begin with. Now 
have a clean tin dish and pour therein a quart or two of water ; 
then put in about 1 lb. of the white wax and let it boil ; when cool 
enough, so the bubbles will not form on top, it is ready to sheet, 
which is done as follows : — Take half of a window pane, 7x9, and, 
after having washed it clean, dip into a dish containing weak soap- 
suds ; then dip into the wax and draw out steadily and plunge it 
into the suds, when the sheet will readily come off. Lay it on a 
cloth or clean paper to dry. Proceed in like manner until you 
have enough of the white ; then add enough of the green powder 
to make a bright color, and heat and stir thoroughly until the 
color is evenly distributed ; then proceed as for sheeting white 



THE FINE ARTS AND SCIENCES. 37 

wax. The other colors are rubbed into the leaves after they are 
cut out, rubbing light or heavy according to shade. 
_ For patterns you can use any natural leaf, forming the creases 
m wax with the thumb nail or a needle; to put the flowers to- 
gether or the leaves on to the stem, hold in the hand until warm 
enough to stick. If the sheeted wax is to be used in Summer put 
in a little balsam of fir to make it hard. If for Winter, none will 
be required. 

You can make many flowers without a teacher ; but one to as- 
sist, in the commencement, would be a great help; thouf^h the 
most particular thing about it is to get the wax sheeted. The ma- 
terials I have suggested can be procured at any drug store and 
will cost from $3 to $4.50. s ^'■^, ciuu 

How to Charm Those JVhom You Meet and Zove.— When you de- 
sire to make any one " Love" you with whom you meet, although 
not personally acquainted with him, you can very readily reach 
him and make his acquaintance, if you observe the fore^oin^y in- 
structions, in addition to the following directions : Suppose you see 
him coming towards you in an imoccupied mood, or is recklessly 
or passively walking past you, all that remains for you to do at 
that moment is to concentrate your thought and send it into him as 
before explained ; and, to your astonishment, if he was passive he 
will look at you, and now is your time to send a thrill to his heart 
by looking him carelessly, though determinately, into his eyes' 
and praying with all your heart, mind, soul and strength, that he 
may read your thought, and receive your true Love, which God 
designs Ave should bear one another. This accomplished, and you 
need not and must not wait for a cold-hearted, fashionable and 
popular Christian introduction ; neither should you hastily run in- 
to his arms, but continue operating in this psychological manner • 
not losing any convenient opportunity to meet him at an appro- 
priate place, when an unembarrassed exchange of words will open 
the door, to the one so magnetized. At this interview, unless pru- 
dence sanction it, do not shake hands, but let yonr manners and 
loving eyes speak with Christian charity and ease ; wherover or 
whenever you meet again, at the first opportunity grasp his hand 
in an earnest, sincere and affectionate manner, observing at the 
same time, the following important directions, viz. :— As you take 
his bare hand in yours, press your thumb gently, thou<^h firmly 
between the bones of the thumb and forefinger of his haiid and at 
the very instant when you press thus on the blood vessels, (which 
you can before ascertain to pulsate,) look him earnestly and lov- 
ingly, though not pertly or fiercely, into his eyes, and send all 
your heart's, mind's and soul's strength into his organization, and 
he will be your friend, and if you find him not to be congenial, you 
have him in your power, and by carefully guarding against evil in- 



38 UR KNO WLEDGE BOX. 

fluences, you can reform him to suit your own purified, Christian, 
and loving taste. 

Mesmerism. — If you desire to mesmerise a person, who has never 
been put into that state, nor in the least affected, the plan is to set 
him in an easy posture, and request him to be calm and resigned. 
Take him by both hands, or else by one hand and place your other 
gently on his forehead. But with whatever part of his body you 
choose to come in contact, be sure to always touch two points, an- 
swering to the positive and negative forces. Having taken him by 
both hands, fix your eyes upon his, and, if possible, let him con- 
tentedly and steadily look you in the face. Remain in this posi- 
tion until his eyes close. Then place both your hands on his head, 
gently pass them to his shoulders, down the arms, and off at the 
ends of his fingers. Throw your hands outward as you return 
them to his head, and continue these passes till he can hear no 
voice but yours. He is then entirely in the mesmeric state. When 
a person is in the mesmeric state, whether put there by yourself or 
some one else, you can awake him by the upward passes : or else 
do it by an impression, as follows : Tell him, " I will count three, 
and at the same instant I say three, I will slap my hands together, 
and you will be wide awake and in your perfect senses. Are you 
ready ?" If he answers in the affirmative, you will proceed to 
count " one, two, THREE !" The word three should be spoken sud- 
denly, and in a very loud voice, and at the same instant the palms 
of the hands should be smitten together. This will instantly 
awake him. 

To Make Magic Photographs. — Take, in the first place, an ordi- 
nary print — a card-picture, for instance — on albumen paper, be- 
neath the negative in the usual way, and, when sufficiently printed, 
let it be carefully washed in the dark room, so as to remove all 
the free nitrate of silver, etc. Now immerse it in the following so- 
lution, also in the dark room : saturated solution bichloride of 
mercury (corrosive sublimate), one ounce ; hydrochloric acid, one 
drachm. The saturated solution is previously prepared by put- 
ting into water more bichloride of mercury than it will dissolve by 
shaking in about twelve hours. The print will gradually be 
bleached in this liquid, in the ordinary meaning of the word — that 
is, it will disappear ; but the fact is, the print is still there — its 
color alone is changed, a double salt having been formed of mer- 
cury and silver, which is white, as many of our readers, Avho have 
been in the habit of intensifying with a mercurial salt, are aware. 
As soon as the print has quite disappeared, the paper is thorough- 
ly washed and dried in the dark room ; it is also preserved be- 
tween folds of orange-colored paper, in order to keep it from the 
action of light, for the surface is still in some measure sensitive to 
light. The bleaching of the print— that is, its conversion into a 



THE FINE ARTS AND SCIENCES. 39 

white salt— is effected more quickly by keeping it in motion in the 
mercurial solution. As we said before, the print has not been 
bleached in reality— the substance which originally formed it is 
still there, together with a new substance, a salt of mercury. But 
the two salts of silver and mercury may be easily brought out and 
made visible by several solutions, such as sulphide of ammonium, 
solution of hydrosulphuric acid ; in fact, any of the soluble sulph- 
ides, ammonia and hyposulphite of soda. The latter salt is used 
in preference to the others. Small pieces of blotting-paper, there- 
fore, of the same size as the prints, are cut out and steeped in a 
saturated solution of hyposulphite of soda and then dried. The 
magic photographs are packed as before stated, between folds of 
orange-colored paper ; the papers dipped in hyposulphite of soda are 
the developers, and may be packed between two sheets of common 
writing-paper. The development of the image is effected in the 
following manner: place the albmnen paper which contains the 
whitened print on a pane of glass, print side upward ; on this lay 
the dry piece of blotting-paper that has been previously dip- 
ped in hj^posulphite of soda. Moisten the latter thoroughly, then 
place over it a pane of glass, and upon this a weight, to bring the 
two pieces of paper into intimate contact. In a very short time 
the picture will appear in all its original detail, and of a sepia 
tone. 

Wnfijig on the Ann.— The conjurer's explanation was a great les- 
son in " spiritualism." I next asked him to elucidate the trick of 
writing on the arm. On the occasion of my visit to Mr. Forster, 
when the raps indicated the second pellet, he required the "spirit" 
present to write the initials on his bare arm. Mr. Forster placed 
his arm under the table for a moment, then rested it in front of a 
lamp burning on the table, and quickly rolled up the sleeve of his 
coat. The skin was without stain or mark. He passed his hand 
over it once or twice, and the initials of the names I had Written 
on the second pellet seemed to grow on the arm in letters of crim- 
son. "It's a trick I do every night. It goes with the audience like 
steam," said the conjurer. " Very simple. Well, suppose a name. 
What name would you like ?" ' ' Henry Clay, " I replied. Down went 
the conjurer's arm under the table. In a few seconds he raised 
it and exposed the bare forearm without mark upon it. He doub- 
led up his fist tightly so as to bring the muscles of the arm to the 
surface, and rubbed the skin smartly with his open hand. The 
letters " H. C." soon appeared upon it in well-defined writing of a 
deep red color. "There you have it, gentlemen ; that's the blood- 
red writing. Very simple. All you have to do is take a Inciter 
match, and write on your arm with the wrong end of it. If vou 
moisten the skin with a little salt water first, all the better. 
Then wet the palm of the other hand, rub your arm with it. Send 



i;) O UR KNO WLED GE BOX. 

up tlio muscles and the blood-red writing will come out. It will 
lade away in less than no time. If you look under the table, you 
will see that I have a little piece of pointed wood. I can move my 
arm under that and write the letters without using the other hand. 
But that's a trick which wants practice. 

Electrical Psychology. — The most easy and direct mode to produce 
electro psychological communication is to take the individual by 
the hand, in the same manner as though you were going to shake 
hands. Press your thumb on the Ulnar nerve, which spreads its 
branches to the ring and little finger, an inch above the knuckle, 
and in range of the ring finger. Lay the ball of the thumb flat so 
as to cover the minute branches of this nerve of motion and sensa- 
tion. When you first take him by the hand, request him to place 
his eyes upon yours, and to keep them fixed, so that he may see 
every emotion of your mind expressed in the countenance. Con- 
tinue this pressure for a half a minute or more. Then request him 
to close his eyes, and with your fingers gently brush downward 
several times over the eyelids. Throughout the whole process 
feel within yourself a fixed determination to close them, so as to 
express that determination fully in your countenance and manner. 
Then place your hand on the top of his head and press your thumb 
firmly on the organ of Individuality, bearing partially downward, 
and with the other thumb still pressing the ulnar nerve, tell him 
— you can not open your eyes! Eemember, that your manner, your 
expression of countenance, your motions, and your language must 
all be of the most positive character. If he succeed in opening 
his eyes, try it once or twice more, because impressions, whether 
physical or mental, continue to deepen by repetition. In case, 
however, that you cannot close his eyes, nor see any effect pro- 
duced upon them, you should cease making any further efforts, be- 
cause you have now fairly tested that his mind and body both 
stand in a positive relation as it regards the doctrine of impres- 
sions. If you succeed in closing the subject's eyes by the above 
mode, you may then request him to put his hands on his head, or 
in any other position you choose, and tell him, you can not stir 
them ! In case you succeed, request him to be seated, and tell 
him, you can not rise! If you are successful in this, request him to 
put his hands in motion, and tell him, you can not stop them! If 
you succeed, request him to walk the floor, and tell him, you can 
not cease icalking! And so j^ou may continue to perform experi- 
ments involving muscular motion and paralysis of any kind that 
may occur to your mind, till you can completely control him, in 
arresting or moving all the voluntary parts of his system. 

How to Make Persons at a Distance Think of You. — Let it be partic- 
ularly remembered that " Faith" and concentration of thought are 



THE FINE ARTS AND SCIENCES. 41 

positively needful to accomplish aught in drawing others to you or 
making them think of you. If you have not the capacity or un- 
derstanding how to operate an electric telegraph battery, it is no 
proof that an expert and competent person should fail doing so ; 
just so in this case; if faith, meditation, or concentration of 
thought fail you, then will you also fail to operate upon others. 
First, you must have an yearning for the person you wish to make 
think of you ; and secondly, you must learn to guess at what time 
of day or night he may be unemployed, passive, so that he be in a 
proper state to receive the thought which you dispatch to him. If 
he should be occupied in any way, so that his nervous forces were 
needed to complete his task, his :' Human Battery," or thought, 
would not be in a recipient or passive condition, therefore your ex- 
periment would fail at that moment. Or if he were under heavy 
narcotics, liquors, tobacco, or gluttonous influences, he could not 
be reached at such moments. Or, if he were asleep, and you op- 
erated to affect a wakeful mind or thought, you would fail again 
at the moment. To make a person at a distance think of you, 
whether you are acquainted with him or not, matters not ; I again 
repeat, find out or guess at what moment he is likely to be pas- 
sive ; by this I mean easy and careless : then, with the most fer- 
vent prayer, or yearning of your entire heart, mind, soul and 
strength, desire he may think of you ; and if you wish him to think 
on any particular topic in relation to you, it is necessary for you 
to press your hands, when operating on him, on such mental fac- 
ulties of your head as you wish him to exercise towards you. 
This demands a meagre knowledge of Phrenology. His "Feeling 
Nature," or "Propensities," you cannot reach through these opera- 
tions, but when he once thinks of you, (if he does not know you he 
imagines such a being as you are,) he can easily afterwards be 
controlled by you, and he will feel disposed to go in the direction 
where you are, if circumstances permit, and he is his own master, 
for, remember, circumstances alter cases. I said, you cannot 
roach his " Feeling," but only his "Thinking Nature," truly, but 
after he thinks of you once, his "Feeling Nature," or propensi- 
ties, may become aroused through his own organization. In con- 
clusion on this topic, let me say, that if you wish the person sim- 
ply to think of you, one operation may answer ; but on the con- 
trary, if you wish him to meet you, or go where you are, all you 
have to do is to persevere in a lawful and Christian manner to op- 
erate, and I assure you, in the course of all natural things, that is, 
if no accident or very unfavorable circumstances occur, he will 
make his way towards you, and when he comes within sight, or 
reaching distance of you, it will be easy to manage him. 

How to Make Large Noses Small. — Dr. Cid, an inventive surgeon 
of Paris, noticed that elderly people, who for a long time have 



42 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

worn eyeglasses supported on the nose by a spring, are apt to have 
this organ long and thin. This he attributes to the compression 
which the spring exerts on the arteries by whicli the nose is nour- 
ished. The idea occurred to him that the hint could be made use- 
ful. Not long afterward, a young lady of fifteen years consulted 
him, to see if he could restore to moderate dimensions her nose, 
which was large, fleshy, and unsightly. The trait, he found, was 
hereditary in her family, as her mother and sister were similarly 
afflicted. This was discouraging, as hereditary peculiarities are 
particularly obstinate. But the doctor determined to try his 
metliod ; he took exact measurements, and had constructed for 
her a " lunette pince-nez " — a spring and pad for compressing the 
artery — which she wore at niglii and whenever she could conven- 
iently in daytime. In three weeks a consolatory diminution was 
evident, and in three months the young lady was quite satisfied 
with the improvement in her features. 

Jockey Tricks. — How io make a horse appear as though he icas hadly 
Foundered. — Take a fine wire and fasten it tight around the fet- 
lock, between the foot and the heel, and smooth the hair over it. 
In twenty minutes the horse will show lameness. — Do not leave it 
on over nine hours. — To make a horse lame.— Take a single hair 
from his tail, put it through the eye of a needle, then lift the front 
leg, and press the skin between the outer and the middle tendon or 
cord, and shove the needle through, cut off the hair each side and 
let the foot down ; the horse will go lame in twenty minutes. — How 
to make a horse stand by his food and not take it. — Grease the front 
teeth and the roof of the mouth with common beef tallow, and he 
will not eat until you wash it out ; this in conjunction with the 
above will consummate a complete founder. — How to cure a horse 
from the crib or sucking wind. — Saw between the upper teeth to 
the gums. — How to put a young countenance on a horse. — Make a small 
incision in the sunken place over the eye, insert the point of a 
goose quill and blow it up ; close the external wound with thread 
and it is done. — To cover up the heaves. — Drench the horse with one- 
fourth pound of common bird shot, and he will not heave until 
they pass through him. — To make a horse appear as if he had the 
glanders. — Melt four ounces of fresh butter and pour it into his ear. 
— To distinguish between distemper and glanders. — The discharge from 
the nose in glanders will sink in water ; in distemper it floats. — 
How io make a true pidling horse baulk. — Take tincture of canthar- 
ides one ounce, and corrosive sublimate one drachm; mix, and 
bathe his shoulder at night. — How io nerve a horse that is lame. — 
Make a small incision about half way from the knee to the joint 
on the outside of the leg, and at the back part of the shin bone 
you will find a small white tendon or cord, cut it off and close the 
external wound with a stitch, and he will walk off on the hardest 
pavement and not limp a particle. 



FARMERS' DEPARTMENT. 43 

To Bore Holes in Glass.— Any hard steel tool will cut glass with 
great facility when kept freely wet with camphor dissolved in tur- 
pentine. A drill-bow may be used, or even the hand alone. A hole 
bored may be readily enlarged by a round file. The ragged edges 
of glass vessels may also be thus easily smoothed by a flat file. 
Flat window glass can readily be sawed by a watch spring saw by 
aid of this solution. In short, the most brittle glass can be 
wrought almost as easily as brass by the use of cutting tools kept 
constantly moist with camphorized oil of turpentine. 

To Etch upon Glass. —Procure several thick, clear pieces of crown 
glass, and immerse them in melted Avax, so that each may receive 
a complete coating, or pour over them a solution of wax in ben- 
zine. When perfectly cold draw on them, with a fine steel point, 
flowers, trees, houses, portraits, etc. Whatever parts of the draw- 
ing are intended to be corroded with the acid, should be ferfectly 
free froni the least particle of wax. When all these drawings are 
finished the pieces of glass must be immersed one by one in a 
square leaden box or receiver, where they are to be submitted to 
the action of hydrofluoric acid gas, made by acting on powdered 
fluor-spar by concentrated sulphuric acid. 



FAEMERS' DEPAETMENT. 



How to get New Varieties of Potatoes.— Vihen the vines are done 
growing and are turned brown; the seed is ripe: then take the 
balls and string with a large needle and strong thread ; hang them 
in a dry place where they will gradually dry and mature, without 
danger or injury from frost. In the month of April, soak the ball 
for several hours from the pulp ; when washed and dried, they 
are fit for sowing in rows, in a bed well prepared in the garden; 
they will sprout in a fortnight; they must be attended to like 
other vegetables. When about two inches high, they may be 
thinned and transplanted into rows. As they increase in size, they 
should be hilled. In the autumn many of them will be of the 
size of a walnut, and from that to a pea. In the following spring 
they should be planted in hills, placing the large ones together,— 
they will in the second season attain their full size, and will ex- 
hibit several varieties of form, and may then be selected to suit 
the iudgment of the cultivator. I would prefer gathering the 
balls from potatoes of a good kind. The first crops from seeds 
"thus obtained will be productive, and will continue so for many 
years, gradually deteriorating, mitil they will need a renewal by 
the process. 



44 O UR KNO WLED GE BOX. 

To Destroy Rats. — Fill any deep smooth vessel of considerable 
capacity to within six inches of the top with water, cover the sur- 
face with bran, and set the vessel in a place most frequented by 
these pests. In attempting to get at the bran they will fall in 
and be drowned. Several dozen have been taken by this simple 
method at a time. 

To Kill Rats in Barn and Rick. — Melt hog's lard in a bottle 
plunged in water of temperature of 150 degrees Fahrenheit : intro- 
duce into it half an ounce of phosphorus for every pound of lard ; 
then add a pint of proof spirits or whiskey ; cork the bottle firmly 
after its contents have been to 150 degrees, taking it out of the 
water and agitating till the phosphorus becomes uniformly 
diffused, making a milky looking fluid. The spirit may be poured 
off on the liquor cooling ; and you then have a fatty compound, 
which, after being warmed gently, niay be incorporated with a 
mixture of wheat flour, or sugar, flavored with oil of rhodium, or 
oil of anise-seed, etc., and the dough, on being made into pellets, 
should be laid at the rat holes ; being luminous in the dark, and 
agreeable both to the palates and noses, it is readily eaten, and 
proves certainly fatal. The rats issue from their holes and seek 
for water to quench their burning thirst, and they commonly die 
near the water. 

Rat Poison. — Flour, six pounds; sugar, one pound; sulphur, 
four pounds ; phosphorus, four pounds. 

To Banish and Prevent 3fosqiiitoes from Biting. — Dilute a little of 
the oil of thyme with sweet oil, and dip pieces of paper in it. 
Hang in your room, or rub a little on the hands and face when 
going to bed. 

To Keep Milk Sweet in the Hottest Weather. — Put a spoonful of 
horse-radish in a pan of milk ; this will keep it sweet for several 
days longer than without. 



BECIPES FOR HOBSES. 

Blistering Liniment. — Powdered Spanish flies, one ounce ; spirits 
turpentine, six ounces. Rub on the belly for pain in the bowels, 
or on the surface for internal inflammation. 

Cathartic Powder.— To cleanse out horses in the spring, making 
them sleek and healthy ; black sulphuret of antimony, nitre, and 
sulphur, each equal parts. Mix well together, and give a table- 
spoonful every morning. 



RECIPES FOR HORSES. 45 

Cough Ball for Horses. — Pulverized ipecac, three-quarters of an 
ounce; camplior, two ounces; squills, half an ounce. Mix with 
honey to form into mass, and divide into eight balls. Give one 
every morning. 

Diuretic Balls. — Castile soap scraped fine, powdered resin, each 
three teaspoonfuls ; powdered nitre, four teaspoonfuls ; oil of juni- 
per, one small teaspoonf ul : honey, a sufBcient quantity to make 
into a ball. 

To prevent Horses being Teased by Flies. — Boil three handfuls of 
walnut leaves in three qi^rts of water ; sponge the horse (before 
going out of the stable) between and upon the ears, neck and flank. 

To Prevent Bolts. — Mix a little wood-ashes with their drink daily. 
This effectually preserves horses against the botts. 

Liniment for Galled Backs of Horses. — White lead moistened with 
milk. When milk cannot be procured, oil may be substituted. 
One or two ounces will last two months or more. 

Remedy for Strains in Horses. — Take whiskey, one half pint : cam- 
phor, one ounce ; sharp vinegar, one pint. Mix. Bathe the parts 
affected. 

^no</ier.— Take opodeldoc, warm it, and rub the strained part 
two or three times a day. 

Lotion for Blows, Bruises, Spraitis, etc. — One part laudanum, two 
parts oil origanum, four parts water ammonia, four parts oil of 
turpentine, four parts camphor, thirty-two parts spirits of wine. 
Put them into a bottle, and shake them until mixed. 

Fever BalL — Emetic tartar and camphor, each half an ounce; 
nitre, two ounces. Mix with linseed meal and molasses to make 
eight balls. Give one twice a day. 

Liniment for Sprains, Swellings, etc. — Aqua ammonia, spirits cam- 
phor, each, two ounces ; oil origanum and laudanum, each, half 
an ounce. Mix. 

Lotion for Mange. — Boil two ounces tobacco in one quart water; 
strain ; add sulphur and soft soap, each, two ounces. 

Purgative Ball. — Aloes, one ounce ; cream tartar and castile soap, 
one iiarter of an ounce. Mix with molasses to make a ball. 



46 UR KNO WLEDGE B OX. 



CONFECTIONEES' DEPAKTMENT. 

Ginger Candy. — Boil a pound of clarified sugar until, upon taking 
a drop of it on a piece of stick, it will become brittle when cold. 
Mix and stir up with it, for a common article, about a teaspoonful 
of ground ginger ; if for a superior article, instead of the ground 
ginger add half the white of an Qii,^, beaten up previously with 
line sifted loaf sugar, and twenty drops of strong essence of 
ginger. 

Ginger Lozenges. — Dissolve in one-quarter of a pint of hot water 
half an ounce of gum arable ; when cold, ^tir it up with one and a 
half pounds of loaf sugar, and a spoonful of powdered ginger, or 
twelve drops of essence of ginger. Koll and beat the whole up 
into a paste ; make it into a flat cake, and punch out the lozenges 
with a round stamp ; dry them near the fire, or in an oven. 

Peppermint Lozenges. — Best powdered white sugar, seven pounds ; 
pure starch, one pound ; oil of peppermint to flavor. Mix with 
mucilage. 

Peppermint, Rose or Hoarhound Candy. — They may be made as 
lemon candy. Flavor with essence of rose or peppermint or finely 
powdered hoarhound. Pour it out in a buttered paper, placed in 
a square tin pan. 

To Clarify Sugar for Candies. — To every pound of sugar, put a 
large cup of water, and put it in a brass or copper kettle, over a 
slow fire, for half an hour ; pour into it a small quantity of isin- 
glass and gum Arabic, dissolved together. This will cause all 
impurities to rise to the surface ; skim it as it rises. Flavor 
according to taste. 

All kinds of sugar for candy, are boiled as above directed. 
"When boiling loaf sugar, add a tablespoonful of rum or vinegar, 
to prevent its becoming too brittle whilst making. 

Loaf sugar when boiled, by pulling and making into small rolls, 
and twisting a little, will make what is called little rock, or snow. 
By pulling loaf sugar after it is boiled, you can make it as white 
as snow. 

Common Twist Candy. — Boil three pounds of common sugar and 
one pint of water over a slow fire for half an hour, without skim- 
ming. When boiled enough take it off ; rub the hands over with 
butter ; take that which is a little cooled, and pull it as j^ou would 
molasses candy, until it is white ; then twist or braid it, and cut it 
up in strips. 

Fine Peppermint Lozenges. — Best powdered white sugar, 7 pounds ; 
pure starch, 1 pound; oil of peppermint to flavor. Mix with mu- 

CilOGO. 



CONFECTIONERS' DEPARTMENT. 47 

Everton Taffee, — To make this favorite and wliolesome candy, 
take 1| pounds of moist sugar, 3 ounces of butter, a teacup and a 
half of water and one lemon. Boil the sugar, butter, water, and 
half the rind of the lemon together, and when done — which will 
be kno^vn by dropping into cold water, when it should be quite 
crisp — let it stand aside till the boiling has ceased, and then stir 
in the juice of the lemon. Butter a dish, and pour it in about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness. The fire must be quick, and the 
taffee stirred all the time. 

Candy Fruit. — Take 1 pound of the best loaf sugar; dip each 
lump into a bowl of water, and put the sugar into your preserving 
kettle. Boil it down and skim it until perfectly clear, and in a 
candying state. When sufficiently boiled, have ready the fruits 
you wish to preserve. Large white grapes, oranges separated into 
small pieces, or preserved fruits, taken out of their syrup and 
dried, are very nice. Dip the fruits into the prepared sugar while 
it is hot ; put them in a cold place ; they will soon become hard. 

Popped Corn. — Dipped in boiling molasses and stuck together 
forms an excellent candy. 

Molasses Candy. — Boil molasses over a moderately hot fire, stir- 
ring constantly. When you think it is done, drop a little on a 
plate, and if sufficiently boiled it will be hard. Add a small quan- 
tity of vinegar to render it brittle and any flavoring ingredient you 
prefer. Pour in buttered tin pans. If nuts are to be added strew 
them in the pans before pouring out the candy. 

Liquorice Lozenges.. — Extract of liquorice, 1 pound, powdered 
white sugar, 2 pounds. Mix with mucilage made with rosewater. 

Fig Candy. — Take 1 pound of sugar and 1 pint of water, set over 
a slow fire. When done, add a few drops of vinegar and a lump 
of butter, and poui' into pans in which split figs are laid. 

liaisbi Candy. — Can be made in the same manner, substituting 
stoned raisins for the figs. Common molasses candy is very nice 
with all kinds of nuts added. 

Scotch Butter Candy. — Take 1 pound of sugar, 1 pint of water: 
dissolve and boil. When done add 1 tablespoonful of butter, and 
enough lemon juice and oil of lemon to flavor. 

Icing for Cakes. — Beat the whites of two small eggs to a l.hxh 
froth ; then add to them a quarter of a pound of white, ground, \ i* 
powdered sugar ; beat it well until it will lie in a heap ; flavor with 
lemon or rose. This will frost the top of a common-sized cake. 
Heap what you suppose to be sufficient in the centre of the cake, 
then dip a broad-bladed knife in cold water, and spread the ice 
evenly over the whole surface. 



48 UR KNO WLED GE B OX. 

Saffron Lozenges. — Finely powdered hay-saffron, 1 ounce ; finely 
powdered sugar, 1 pound ; finely powdered starch, 8 ounces. Mu- 
cilage to mix. 

Chocolate Cream. — Chocolate, scraped fine, ^ ounce; thick cream, 
1 pint ; sugar (best), 3 ounces ; heat it nearly to boiling, then re- 
move it from the fire, and mill it well. When cold add the whites 
of four or five eggs ; whisk rapidly and take up the froth on a 
sieve ; serve the cream in glasses, and pile up the froth on the top 
of them. 

Candied Lemon or Peppermint for Colds. — Boil 1^ pounds sugar in 
a half pint of water, till it begins to candy around the sides ; put 
in 8 drops of essence ; pour it upon buttered paper, and cut it with 
a knife. 



VALUABLE MISCELLANEOUS KECEIPTS, FOE THE HOUSE- 
HOLD AND EVEKY DAY EEQUIEEMENTS. 

Alum in Starch. — For starching muslins, ginghams, and calicoes, 
dissolve a piece of alum the size of a shellbark, for every pint of 
starch, and add to it. By so doing the colors will keep bright for 
a long time, which is very desirable when dresses must be often 
washed, and the cost is but a trifle. 

Cider Yeast. — Take cider from sour apples before it ferments, 
scald, skim thoroughly, and pour, while hot, upon flour enough to 
make a stiff batter. When cool, add yeast of any kind, and let it 
rise, stirring it down as often as it tries to run over for several days, 
then put it in a cool place (where it will not freeze), and you will 
have something equal to the best hop yeast. It will keep until 
May without any further labor. 

To Destroy Cockroaches. — The following is said to be effectual : 
These vermin are easily destroyed, simply by cutting up green 
cucumbers at night, and placing them about where roaches com- 
mit depredations. What is cut from the cucumbers in preparing 
them for the table answers the purpose as well, and three applica- 
tions will destroy all the roaches in the house. Eemove the peel- 
ings in the morning, and renew them at night. 

Fire Kindlers. — Take a quart of tar and three pounds of resin, 
melt them, bring to a cooling tcmperatui'e, mix with as much sav>^- 
dust, with a little cliareoal added, as can be worked in ; spread out 
while hot upon a l>oard, when cold break up into lumps of the size 
of a large iiickory :ir.t, and you have, at a small expense, kindling 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 49 

start any wood that is fit to burn. 

hour When milk-warm, bottle and cork close, and it ^vill be 
ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

m 7 . r.., TTnvo 1 lar^e tub or cask and bore a hole on one 

^^ir Ivdc aThrs are stronc,^ and those of appletree wood 

as they are wet, fill in until full. ^ 

Tomafo >Fme.-Take ripe, fresh tomatoes, mash very fine strain 

improves it flavor ; age improves it. 

minutes r wash in cold water; color in iron. 

be well beaten to f ^^,f^\;''® ^^'L^ the colors. Some housekeep- 
salt and then sweeping them thorouguly. 

ter which will be quite permanent. 



50 . OUR KNO WLED GE BOX. 

Method of Keeping Hams in Summer. — Make bags of unbleached 
muslin ; place in the bottom a little good sweet hay ; put in the 
ham, and then press around and over it flrml}^ more hay ; tie the 
bag and hang up in a dry place. Ham secured in this way will 
keep for years. 

How to Cause Vegetables and Fruits to Grow to an Enormous Size and 
also to Increase the brilliancy and Fragrancy of Flowers. — A curious 
discovery has recently been made public in France, in regard to 
the culture of vegetable and fruit trees. By watering with a solu- 
tion of sulphate of iron, the most wonderful fecundity has been at- 
tained. Pear-trees and beans, which have been submitted to this 
treatment, have nearly doubled in the size of their productions, 
and a noticeable improvement has been remarked in their flavor. 
Dr. Becourt reports that while at the head of an establishment at 
Enghien, or the sulphurous springs, ho had the gardens and plan- 
tations connected with it watered, during several weeks of the ear- 
ly Spring, with sulphurous water, and that not only the planta- 
tions prospered to a remarkable extent, but flowers acquired a pe- 
culiar brilliancy of coloring and healthy aspect which attracted 
universal attention. 

Drying Corn. — ^With a sharp knife shave the corn from the ear, 
then scrape the cob, leaving one-half the hull clinging to the cob. 
Place a tin or earthen vessel two-thirds full of this "milk of com" 
over a kettle of boiling water, stir frequently until dry enough to 
spread upon a firm cloth without sticking, when the wind and sun 
(away from dust and flies) will soon complete the process. To 
prepare for the table, put in cold water, set it where it will become 
hot, but not boil, for two hours; then season with salt and pep- 
per, boil for ten minutes ; add of butter and white sugar a table- 
spoonful of each just before ready to serve. 

To Destroy Lice on Chickens. — The following will kill lice on 
the first application : Put six cents worth of cracked Coculus Indicus 
berries into a bottle that will hold a half pint of alcohol : fill the 
bottle with alcohol, and let it stand twenty-four hours. When the 
hen comes off with the youn^ chickens, take the mixture, and with 
a small cotton rag, wet the head of each chicken enough to have it 
reach through the little feathers to the skin ; also, with the same 
rag, wet the hen under her wings. Be careful that no child, nor 
any one else uses it, because it a deadly poison. 

Cracked W7ie&t. — For a pint of the cracked grain, have two quarts 
of water boiling in a smooth iron pot over a quick fire ; stir in the 
wheat slowly ; boil fast and stir constantly for the first half hour 
of cooking, or until it begins to thicken and "pop up;" then lift 
from the quick fire, and place the pot where the wheat will cook 
slowly for an hour longer. Keep it covered closely, stir now and 



MISCELLANEOUS BECEIPTS. 51 

then, and be careful not to let it burn at the bottom. Wheat 
cooked thus is much sweeter and richer than when left to soak 
and simmer for hours, as many think necessary. Wliite wheat 
cooks the easiest. When ready to dish out, have your moulds 
moistened with cold water, cover lightly, and set in a cool place. 
Eat warm or cold with milk and sugar. 

How to Have Green Pea Soup in TTlnier. — Sow peas thickly in pots 
and boxes, say six weeks before the soup is wanted. Place them 
in a temperature of G0° or so, close to the glass in a house or pit. 
Cut the plants as soon as they attain a height of from tliree to six 
inches, and rub them through a sieve. The shoots alone will make 
a fair soup. Mixed with dry peas, also passed through a sieve, no 
one could scarcely distinguish color or flavor from that of real 
green pea soup. There is^ however, considerable difference in the 
flavor of pea leaves, as well as of "the peas themselves. The best 
marrows, such as Ne Plus Ultra and Veitche's Perfection, yield 
the most piquant cuttings. Also the more light the plants receive 
the higher the flavor, plants drawn up or at all blanched, being by 
no means comparable with those w^ell and strongly grown. 

In the spring, a few patches or rows may be sovm in open quar- 
ters expressly for green cuttings. These are most perfect and 
full flavored when four inches high. When too long, the flavor 
seems to have run to wood, and the peculiar aroma of green peas 
is weaker. * 

There is yet another mode of making green pea soup at any sea- 
son at very short notice. Chip the peas by steeping them in water 
and leaving them in a warm place for a few days. Then slightly 
boil or stew, chips and all, and pass them through a .sieve. The 
flavor is full and good, thougli such pea soup lacks color. It is 
astonishing how much the mere vegetation of seeds develops their 
more active and predominant flavor or qualities ; a fact that might 
often be turned to useful account in the kitchen in the flavoring of 
soups or dishes, with turnips, celery, parsley, etc. 

Composition for Restoring Scorched Linen. — Boil, to a good consis- 
tency, in half a pint of vinegar, two ounces of fuller's earth, an 
ounce of hen's dung, half an ounce of cake soap, and the juice of 
two onions. Spread this composition over the whole of the dam- 
aged part; and if the scorching is not quite through, and the 
threads actually consumed, after suffering it to dry on, and letting 
it receive a subsequent good washing or two, the place will appear 
full as white and perfect as any other part of the linen. 

To Remove Lidelible Ink Stains.— ^oak the stained spot in strong 
salt water, then wash it with ammonia. Salt changes the nitrat_e of 
silver into chloride of silver, and ammonia dissolves the chloride. 



52 OUB KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

To Cook Caulijloiccr. — Choose those that are close and white and 
of middle size, trim off the outside leaves, cut the stalk off flat at 
the bottom, let them lie in salt and water an hour before you boil 
them. Put them into boiling water with a handful of salt in it, 
skim it well and let it boil slowly till done. Fifteen minutes will 
suffice for a small one, and twenty will be long enough for a large 
one. If it is boiled a minute or two after it is done the flavor will 
be impaired. 

To Pickle Siring Beans. — Place them in a pan with alternate lay- 
ers of salt and leave them thus for 24 hours. Drain them and 
place them in a jar with allspice, cloves, pepper and a little salt. 
Boil enough vinegar to cover them, pour over them and let them 
stand till the next day, boil the vinegar the second time, and pom- 
it on again. The next day boil the vine^r for the last time, pour 
it over the beans, and when quite cold, cover the jar tightly and 
set in a cool closet. 

Hoio to Ckmse a Baby to Thrive and Grow. — Try the milk first drawn 
from a cow that is fresh, add one-quarter water, and a little sugar. 
M the milk constipates, sweeten it with molasses, or mix with it a 
small quantity of magnesia. Abjure soothing sj^rups, and for col- 
ic give catnip or smellage tea. Give the baby a tepid bath at night 
as well as in the morning, rubbing him well with the hand. After 
the bath, let him |eed and then sleep. We find open air the best 
of tonics for babies. Our's takes his naps out of doors in the shade 
during the warm weather, and his cheeks are two roses. 

To Can Gooseberries without Breaking them. — Fill the cans with ber- 
ries, and partly cover with water, set the jars into a vessel of wa- 
ter, and raise the temperature to the boiling point. Boil eight 
minutes, remove from the kettle, cover with boiling water, and 
seal immediately. If sugar is used, let it be pure white, and 
allow eight ounces to a quart of berries. Make into a syrup, and 
use in the cans instead of water. The glass cans with glass tops, 
a rubber and a screw ring, we have found the simplest and most 
perfect of the many kinds offered for sale in the market. 

Ready Mode of Mending Cracks in Stoves, Pipes and Iron Ovens. — 
When a crack is discovered in a stove, through which the fire or 
smoke penetrates, the aperture may be completely closed in a 
moment with a composition consisting of wood ashes and com- 
mon salt made up into paste with a little water, and plastered over 
the crack. The good effect is equally certain, whether the stove, 
etc., be cold or hot. 

To Keep Milk from Turning *Sour.— Add a little sub-carbonate of 
soda, or of potash. This by combining with, and neutralizing the 
acetic acid formed, has the desired effect, and keeps the milk 



MISCELLANEO US RECEIP TS. 53 

from turning sooner than it otherwise would. The addition is 
perfectly harmless, and does not injure the taste. 

Strawberry Vinegar. — Put four pounds of very ripe strawberries, 
nicely dressed, into three quarts of the best vinegar, and let them 
stand three or four days ; then drain the vinegar through a jelly- 
bag, and pour it on the same quantity of fruit. Kepeat the pro- 
cess in three days for a third time. Finally, to each pound of the 
liquor thus obtained, add one pound of fine sugar. Bottle, and let 
it stand covered, but not tightly corked, one M^eek ; then cork 
it tight, and set it in a cool, dry place, where it will not freeze. 
Raspberry vinegar is made the same way. 

Cider Vinegar. — After cider has become too sour for use, set it in 
a warm place, put to it occasionally the rinsings of the sugar basin 
or molasses jug, and any remains of ale or cold tea ; let it remain 
with the bung open, and you will soon have the best of vinegar. 

To Give Luster io Silver. — Dissolve a quantity of alum in water, 
so as to make a pretty strong brine, and skim it carefully ; then add 
some soap to it, and dip a linen rag in it, and rub over the silver. 

To Make Water-Proof Porous Cloth. — Close water-proof cloth fa- 
brics, such as glazed oil-cloth. India-rubber, and gutta-percha 
cloth are completely water-proof, but do not permit perspiration 
and the exhaled gases from the skin to pass through thenv, be- 
cause they are air-tight as well as water-tight. Persons who wear 
air-tight garments soon become faint, if they are undergoing se- 
vere exercise, such as that to which soldiers are exposed when on 
march. A porous, water-proof cloth, therefore, is the best for 
outer garments during wet weather, for those whose duties or 
labor causes them to perspire freely. The best way for preparing 
such cloth is by the following process : Take 2^ pounds of alum 
and dissolve this in 10 gallons of boiling water ; then in a separate 
vessel dissolve the same quantity of sugar of lead in 10 gallons of 
water, and mix the two solutions. The cloth is now well handled 
in this liquid, until every part of it is penetrated ; then it is squeezed 
and dried in the air, or in a warm apartment, then washed in cold 
water and dried again, when it is fit for use. If necessary, the 
cloth may be dipped in the liquid and dried twice before being 
washed. The liquor appears curdled, when the alum and lead so- 
lutions are mixed together. This is the result of double decompo- 
sition, the sulphate of lead, which is an insoluble salt, being 
formed. The su\phate of lead is taken up in the pores of the cloth, 
and it is unaffected by rains or moisture, and yet it does not ren- 
der the cloth air-tight. Such cloth is also partially non-inflamma- 
ble. A solution of alum itself will render cloth, prepared as de- 
scribed, partially water-proof, but it is not so good as the sulphate 
of lead. Such cloth— cotton or woolen-^sheds rain like the feath- 
ers on the back of a duck. 



54 UR ENO WLED GE B OX. 

To Cleanse Cai'pet. — 1 tcaspoonful liquid ammonia in one gallon 
warm water, will often restore the color of carpets, even if pro- 
duced by acid or alkali. If a ceiling has been whitewashed with 
the carpet down, and a few drops are visible, this will remove it. 
Or, after the carpet is well beaten and brushed, scour with oxgall, 
which will not only extract grease but freshen the colors — 1 pint 
of gall in 3 gallons of warm water, will do a large carpet. Table 
floor-cloths may be thus washed. The suds left from a wash 
where ammonia is used, even if almost cold, cleanses these floor- 
cloths well. 

To Keep Hams. — After the meat has been well cured by pickle 
and smoke, take some clean ashes from bits of coal ; moisten 
them with a little water so that they will form a paste, or else just 
wet the hams a Itttle, and rub on the dry ashes. Kubbed in thor- 
oughly they serve as a capital insect protector, and the hams can 
be hung up in the smoke-house or wood-chamber without any dan- 
ger of molestation. 

A Cold Cement for Mending Earthenware, says a recent English 
work, reckoned a great secret among workmen, is made by grat- 
ing a pound of old cheese, with a bread grater, into a quart of 
milk, in which it must be left for a period of fourteen hours. It 
should be stirred quite often. A pound of unslaked lime, finely 
pulverized in a mortar, is then added, and the whole is thoroughly 
mixed by beating. This done, the whites of 25 eggs are incorpor- 
ated with the rest, and the whole is ready for use. There is an- 
other cement for the same purpose which is used hot. It is made 
of resin, beeswax, brick-dust, and chalk boiled together. The 
substances to be cemented must be heated, and when the surfaces 
are coated with cement, they must be rubbed hard upon each 
other, as in making a glue-joint with wood. 

How to Make Cucumber Vljies Bear Five Crops. — When a cucumber 
is taken from the vine let it be cut with a knife, leaving about the 
eighth of an inch of the cucumber on the stem, then slit the stem 
with a knife from the end to the vine, leaving a small portion of 
the cucumber on each division, and on each separate slit there 
will be a new cucumber as large as the first. 

JVIiite Cement. — Take white (fish) glue, 1 lb. 10 oz. ; dry white 
lead, 6 oz. ; soft water, 3 pts. ; alcohol, 1 pt. 

Dissolve the glue by putting it in a tin kettle or dish, containing 
the water, and set this dish in a kettle of water, to prevent the 
glue from being burned ; when the glue is all dissolved, put in the 
lead and stir and boil until it is thoroughly mixed ; remove from 
the fire, and when cool enough to bottle, add the alcohol, and bot- 
tle while it is yet warm, keeping it corked. This last recipe has 
been sold about the country for from twenty-five cents to five dol- 
lars, and one man gave a horse for it. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 55 

Bruises on EurnUure. — Wet the part in warm water; double a 
piece of brown paper live or six times, soak in tlie warm water, 
and lay it on the place ; apply on that a warm, but not hot, flat- 
iron till the moisture is evaporated. If the bruise be not gone re- 
peat the process. After two or throe applications the dent will be 
raised to the surface. If the bruise bo small, merely soak it with 
warm water, and hold a red-hot iron near the surface, keeping the 
surface coritinually wet — the bruise will soon disappear. 

To Prevent Iron Bust. — Kerosene applied to stoves or farming 
implements, during summer, will prevent their rusting. 

To Color Sheej) SJdns. — Unslaked lime and litharge equal parts, 
mixed to a thin paste with water, will color buff — -several coats 
will make it a dark brov/n ; by adding a little ammonia and nitrate 
of silver a fine black is produced. Terra japonica will impart a 
"tan color" to wool, and tlie red shade is deepened by sponging 
with a solution of lime and water, using a strong solution of alum 
water to "set" the colors; 1 part crystallized nitrate silver, 8 
parts carbonate ammonia, and Ih parts of soft water dyes brown ; 
every additional coat darkens the color until a black is obtained. 

Bemedy for Burns. — Take one teacup of lard and the whites of 
two eggs ;" work together as much as it can be, then spread on 
cloths and apply. Change as often as necessary. 

Row Summer Suits should he Washed. — Summer suits are nearly 
all made of white or buff linen, pique, cambric, or muslin, and the 
art of preserving the new appearance after washing is a matter of 
the greatest importance. Common washerwomen spoil everything 
with soda, and nothing is more frequent than to see the delicate 
tints of lawns and percales turned into dark blotches and muddy 
streaks by the ignorance and vandalism of a laundress. It is 
worth -^hile for ladies to pay attention to this, and insist upon 
having their summer dresses washed according to the directions 
which they should be prepared to give their laundresses them- 
selves. In the first place, the water should be tepid, the soap 
should not be allowed to touch the fabric ; it should be washed and 
rinsed quick, turned upon the wrong side, and hung in the shade 
to dry, and when starched (in thin boiled but not boiling starch) 
should be folded in sheets or towels, and ironed upon the wrong 
side as soon as possible. But linen should be washed in water in 
which hay or a quart bag of bran has been boiled. This last will 
be found to answer for starch as well, and is excellent for print 
dresses of all kinds, but a handful of salt is very useful also to set 
the colors of light cambrics and dotted lawns ; and a little ox gall 
will not only set but brighten yellow and purple tints, and has a 
good effect upon green. 

How to Fasten Bubber to Wood and Metal — As rubber plates and 



56 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

rings are now-a-days used almost exclusively for making connec- 
tions between steam and other pipes and apparatus, much nnnoy- 
ance is often experienced by the impossibility or imperfection of 
an air-tight connection. This is obviated entirely by employing a 
cement which fastens alike well to the rubber and to the metal or 
wood. Such cement is prepared by a solution of shella<i in am- 
monia. This is best made by soaking pulverized gum shellac in 
ten times its weight of strong ammonia, when a slimy mass is 
obtained, v\^hich in three to four weeks will become liquid without 
the use of hot water. This softens the rubber, and becomes, after 
volatilization of the ammonia, hard and impermeable to gases 
and fluids. 

Ileneiomg Maroon Colors on Wool. — Wdsh the goods in verj'' weak 
lye ; then rinse thoroughly in clear water ; thus you have a beau- 
tiful, even color, although your goods may have been much faded 
and stained. Though the color thus obtained may not be the ex- 
act shade as when new, it is, however, a very pretty one. The 
above will not answer for other than all woolen goods of a maroon 
color. 

To make Waterj)roqf Cloth out of thick Duckbuj. — The following 
French recipe is given : Take two pounds four ounces of alum, and 
dissolve it in ten gallons of water. In like manner dissolve the 
same quantity of sugar of lead in a similar quantity of v/ater, and 
mix the two together. They form a precipitate of the sulphate of 
lead. The clear liquor is now withdrawn, and the cloth immersed 
one hour in the solution, when it is taken out and dried in the 
shade, washed in clean water and dried again. 

How io Stop a Pinhole in Lead Pipe. — Take a ten-penny nail, place 
the square end upon the hole, and hit it two or three slight bloAvs 
with a hammer, and the orifice is closed as tight as though you 
had employed a plumber to do it at a cost of a dollar or more. 

To Build a Chimney that Will Xot Smoke. — The Scientific American 
gives the following hints to those who would "build a chimney 
which will not smoke" : — The chief point is to make the throat not 
less than four inches broad and twelve long ; then the chimney 
should be abruptly enlarged to double the size, and so continued 
for one foot or more ; then it may be gradually tapered off as de- 
sired. But the inside of the chimney, throughout its whole length 
to the top, should be plastered very smooth with good mortar, 
which will harden v/ith age. The area of a chimney sliould be at 
least half a square foot, and no flues less than sixty square inches. 
The best shape for a chimney is circular, or many-sided, as giving 
less friction, (brick is the best material, as it is a non-conductor,) 
and the higher above the roof the better. 

To Prevent Turners' Wood Splittiiic/. — Small pieces of valuable 



MISCELLANEO US RECEIP TS. 57 

wood, such kinds as are used for turning, etc., are very liable to 
split readily — that is, outward from the "centre. To prevent this, 
soak the pieces, when first cut, in cold water for 24 hours, then boil 
in hot water for two or three hours, and afterward dry slowly and 
under cover. This will be found useful in making handsome man- 
tel, toilet, and other articles from sumac, cherry, and other woods 
that never grow very large. 

To Beniove Dry Paint on Windows. — The most economical way to 
remove dry paint from the panes is to make a small swab having a 
handle some eight inches long, dip it in a little diluted oxalic 
acid, and rub ofl the paint with a swab. 

Everlasting Fence Posts. — I discovered many years ago that wood 
could be made to last longer than iron in the ground, but thought 
the process so simple and inexpensive that it was not worth while 
making any stir about it. I would as soon have poplar, basswood, 
or quaking ash as any other Ivind of timber for fence posts. I 
have taken out basswood posts after having been set seven years, 
which were as sound when taken out as when they were first put 
in the ground. Time and weather seemed to have no effect on 
them. The posts can be prepared for less than two cents a piece. 
This is the recipe : Take boiled linseed oil and stir in it pulverized 
charcoal to the consistency of paint. Put a coat of this over the 
timber, and there is not a man that will live to see it rotten. 

How to Test the Richness of Jft/fc.— Procure any long glass vessel 
— a cologne bottle or long phial. Take a narrow strip of paper, 
just the length from the neck to the bottom of the phial, and mark 
it off with one hundred lines at equal distances ; or into fifty lines 
and count each as two, and paste it upon the phial, so as to divide 
its length into a hundred equal parts. Fill it to the highest mark 
with milk fresh from the cow, and allow it to stand in a perpendic- 
ular position twenty-four hours. The number of spaces occupied 
by the cream will give you its exact percentage in the milk with- 
out any guess work. 

To Remove Stains. — The stains of ink on cloth, paper, or wood 
may be removed by almost all acids : but those acids are to be pre- 
ferred which are least likely to injure the texture of the stained 
substance. The muriatic acid; diluted with five or six times its 
weight of water, may be applied to the spot, and after a minute or 
two may be washed off, repeating the application as often as may 
be necessary. But the vegetable acids are attended with less risk, 
and are equally effectual. A solution of the oxalic, citric (acid of 
lemone), or tartareous acids in water may be applied to the most 
delicate fabrics, without any danger of injuring them ; and the 
same solutions will discharge writing but not printing ink. Hence 
they may be employed in cleaning books which have been defaced 



58 O UR KNO WLED GE BOX. 

by writing on the margin, without impairing the text. Lemon- 
juice and the juice of sorrels will also remove ink stains, but not 
so easily as the concrete acid of lemons or citric acid. 

To Prevent Snow-water or Bain from PcncJradng ihe Soles of Shoes 
or Boots in Winter. — This simple and effectual remedy is nothing 
more than a little beeswax and mutton suet, warmed in a pipkin 
until in a liquid state. Then rub some of it lightly over the edges 
of the sole where the stitches are, which will repel the wet, and 
not in the least prevent the blacking from having the usual effect. 

An Easy Method of Preventing Moths in Furs or Wooleyis. — Sprinkle 
the furs or woolen stuffs, as well as the drawers or boxes in which 
they are kept, with spirits of turpentine ; the unpleasant scent of 
which will speedily evaporate on exposure of the stuffs to the air. 
Some persons place sheets of paper, moistened with spirits of tur- 
pentine, over, under, or between pieces of cloth, etc., and find it 
a very effectual mode. 

To make Sea-water fit for Washing Linen at Sea. — Soda put into sea- 
water renders it turbid ; the lime and magnesia fall to the bottom. 
To make sea-water fit for washing linen at sea, as much soda must 
be put in it, as not only to effect a complete precipitation of these 
earths, but to render the sea-water sufficiently laxivial or alkaline. 
Soda should always be taken to sea for this purpose. 

To Destroy Insects. — When bugs have obtained a lodgment in 
walls or timber, the surest mode of overcoming the nuisance is to 
putty up every hole that is moderately large, and oil-paint the 
whole wall or timber. In bed-furniture, a mixture of soft soap, 
with snuff or arsenic, is useful to fill up the holes where the bolts 
or fastenings are fixed, etc. French polish may be applied to 
smoother parts of the wood. 

Poultice for Burns and Frozen Flesh. — Indian-meal poultices, cov- 
ered with young hyson tea, moistened with hot water, and laid 
over burns or frozen parts, as hot as can be borne, will relieve the 
pain in five minutes ; and blisters, if they have not, will not arise. 
One poultice is usually sufficient. 

Cracked Isipples. — Glycerine and tannin, equal weights, rubbed 
together into an ointment, is very highly recommended, as is also 
mutton tallow and glycerine. 

To take ihe Impression of any Butterfly in all its Colors. — Having 
taken a butterfly, kill it without spoiling its wings, vv^hich contrive 
to spread out as regularly as possible in a flying position. Then, 
with a small brush or pencil, take a piece of white paper; wash 
part of it with gum-water, a little thicker than ordinary, so that it 
may easily dry. Afterwards, laying your butterfly on the paper, 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. ^ 59 

cut off the body close to the wings, and, throwing it aAvay, lay the 
paper on a smooth boai^ Avith the fly upwards ; and, laying an- 
other i)aper over that, put the wliole preparation into a screw- 
press, and screw down very hard, letting it remain under that 
pressure for half an hour. Afterwards take off the wings of the 
butterfly, and you will find a perfect impression of them, with all 
their various colors, marked distinctly, remaining on the paper. 
When this is done, draw between the wings of your impression 
the body of the butterfly, and color it after the insect itself. 

To take the Stains of Grease from Woolen or Silk. — Three ounces of 
spirits of wine, three ounces of. French chalk powdered, and five 
ounces of pipe-clay. Mix the above iilgredients, and make them 
up in rolls about the length of a finger, and you will find a never- 
failing remedy for removing grease from woolen or gilken goods. 
N. B. — It it applied by rubbing on the spot either dry or wet, and 
afterwards brushing the place. 

Easy and Safe Method of Discharging Grease from Woolen Cloths. — 
Fuller's earth or tobacco pipe-clay, being put wet on an oil-spot, 
absorbs the oil as the water evaporates, and leaves the vegetable 
'or animal fibres of the cloth clean on being beaten or brushed out. 
When the spot is occasioned by tallow or wax, it is necessary to 
heat the part cautiously by an iron or the fire while the cloth is 
drying. In some kinds of goods, blotting-paper, bran, or raw 
starch, may be used with advantage. 

To take out Spots of Ink.— As soon as the accident happens, wet 
the place with juice of sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and the 
best hard white soap. 

To take Iron-moulds out of Linen. — Hold the iron-mould on the 
cover of a tankard of boiling water, and rub on the spot a little 
juice of sorrel and a little salt ; and when the cloth has thoroughly 
imbibed the juice, wash it in lye. 

To take out Spots on Silk. — Kub the spots with spirits of turpen- 
tine ; this spirit exhaling, carries off with it the oil that causes 
the spot. 

To take Wax out of Velvet of all Colors except Crimson. — Take a 
crumby wheaten loaf, cut it in two, toast it before the fire, and, 
while very hot, apply it to the part spotted with wax. Then apply 
another piece of toasted bread hot as before, and continue this 
application until the wax is entirely taken out. 

To Bleach *Sira?o. —Straw is bleached by the vapors of sulphur, or 
a solution of oxalic acid or chloride of lime. It may be dyed 
with any liquid color. 

Windows, to CrystaUhe.—'DissolYQ epsom-salts in hot ale, or solu- 



60 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

tion of gum arable, wash it over the Avindow, and let it dry. If 
you wish to remove any, to form a border or centre-piece, do it 
with a wet cloth. " 

Wax for BijUluKj. — Rosin, 13 parts ; wax, 1 part ; melt and add 
any color. Used to render corks and bungs air-tight by melting the 
loax over them. 

WJiitewash. — Slack half a bushel of lime with boiling water, and 
cover the vessel to retain the steam. Strain the liquor, and add 
one peck of salt previously dissolved in warm water, 3 lbs. of rice 
boiled and ground to a paste, Spanisli whiting, 8 oz. ; glue, 1 lb. ; 
mix and add hot water, 5 gallons ; let it stand a few days, and 
apply hot. It makes a brilliant wash for inside or outside works. 

To Purify Water for Drinking. — Filter river-water through a 
sponge, more or less compressed, instead of stone or sand, by 
which the water is not only rendered more clean, but wholesome ; 
for sand is insensibly dissolved by the water, so that in four or live 
years it will have lost a fifth part of its weight. Powder of char- 
coal should be added to the sponge when the water is foul or fetid. 
Those who examine the largo quantity of terrene matter on the 
inside of tea-kettles, will be convinced all water should be boiled 
before drunk, if they wish to avoid being afflicted with gravel or 
stone, etc. 

To Purify the Muddy Waters of Bivers or Pits. — Make a number 
of holes in the bottom of a deep tub ; lay some clean gravel there- 
on, and above this some clean sand ; sink this tub in tlie river or 
pit, so that only a few inches of the tub will be aT)o\e the surface 
of the water ; the river or pit water will filter through the sand, 
and rise clear through it to the level of the water on the outside, 
and will be pure and limpid. 

Method of Making Putrid Water Sweet vi a Nighfs Time. — Four 
large spoonfuls of unslacked lime, put into a puncheon of ninety 
gallons of putrid water at sea, will, in one night, make it as clear 
and sweet as the best spring-water just drawn ; but, unless the 
water is afterwards ventilated sufficiently to carbonize the lime, 
it will be a lime-water. Three ounces of pure unslacked lime 
should saturate 90 gallons of water. 

To Keep Apples from Freezing. — Apples form an article of chief 
necessity in almost every famil}^ ; therefore, great care is taken to 
protect them from frost ; it being well known that they, if left un- 
protected, are destroj^ed by the first frost which occurs. They 
may be kept in the attic with impunity throughout the winter, by 
simply covering them over with a linen cloth; be sure you have 
linen, for woolen or other cloth is of no avail. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 61 

To Preserve Grapes. — Take a cask or barrel which will hold wa- 
ter, and put into it, first a laj^er of bran, dried in an oven, or of 
ashes well dried and sifted ; upon this place a layer of grapes well 
cleaned, and gathered in the afternoon of a dry day, before they 
are perfectly ripe ; proceed thus with alternate layers of bran or 
ashes and grapes, till the barrel is full, taking care that the grapes 
do not touch each other, and to let the last layer be of bran or 
ashes ; then close the barrel so that tho air may not penetrate, 
which is an essential point. Grapes thus packed will keep for 
nine or even twelve months. To restore them to freshness, cut 
the end of the stalk of each bunch of grapes, and put it into red 
wine, as you would flowers into water. White grapes should be 
put into, white wine. 

To Increase the Lay'mg of Eggs. — The best method is to mix with 
their food, every other day, about a teaspoon of ground cayenne 
pepper to each dozen fowl. Whilst upon this subject, it would be 
well to say, that if your hens lay soft eggs, or eggs without shells, 
you should put plenty of old plaster, egg-shells, or even oyster- 
shells broken up, where they can get at it. 

2^0 Preserve Meats. — Beef to pickle for long keeping. First, thor- 
oughly rub salt into it, and let it remain in bullc for twenty-four 
hours to draw olT the blood. Second, take it up, letting it drain, 
and pack as desired. Third, have ready a pickle prepared as fol- 
lows : for every 100 pounds of beef use 7 pounds salt ; saltpetre 
and cayenne pepper each, 1 ounce; molasses, 1 quart; and soft 
water, 8 gallons ; boil and skim well, and when cold pour over tho 
beef. 

Another method is to use 5 pounds salt, 1 pound brown sugar, 
and \ oz. of saltpetre, to each 100 pounds ; dissolve the above in 
sufficient water to cover the meat, and in two weeks drain all off, 
and make more same as first. It will then keep through the season. 
To boil for eating, put into boiling water ; for soups, into cold wa- 
ter. 

Flies, to Destroy. — Boil some quassia-chips in a little water, 
sweeten with sj-rup or molasses, and place it in saucers. It is de- 
structive to flies, but not to children. 

Walnuts, to Pickle. — Take 100 yoimg walnuts, lay them in salt 
and water for two or three days, changing the water every day. 
(If required to be soon ready for use, pierce each walnut Avith a 
larding pin that the pickle may penetrate). Wipe them with a soft 
cloth, and lay them on a folded cloth for some liours. Then put 
them in a jar, and pour on them sufficient of the above spiced 
vinegar, hot, to cover them. Or they may be allowed to simmer 
gently in strong vinegar, then put into a jar with a handful of 



62 OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

mustard-seed, 1 oz. of ginger, \ oz. mace, 1 oz. allspice, 2 heads of 
garlic, and 2 split nutmegs ; and pour on them sufficient boiling 
vinegar to cover them. Some prefer the walnuts to be gently sim- 
mered with the brine, then laid on a cloth for a day or two till 
they turn black, put into a jar, and hot spiced vinegar poured ou 
them. 

To Pickle Cucumbers and Gherkins. — Small cucumbers, but not too 
young, are wiped clean with a dry cloth, put into a jar, and boil- 
ing vinegar, with a handful of salt, poured on them. Boil up the 
vinegar every three days, and pour it on them, till they become 
green : then add ginger and pepper, and tie them up close for use, 
or cover them with salt and water (as above) in a stone jar ; cover 
them, and set them on the hearth before the lire for two or three 
days, till they turn yellow; then put away the water, and cover 
them with hot vinegar, and set them near the fire, and keep them 
hot for eight or ten days, till they become green ; then pour off the 
vinegar, cover them with hot spiced vinegar, and cover them close. 

Mushroom Ketchup. — Pickled mushrooms, 4 lbs. : salt, 2 lbs. 
Sprinkle it on the mushrooms ; and, when they liquefy; remove 
the juice ; add pimento, 6 oz. ; cloves, 1 oz. ; boil gently and strain : 
the remaining liquor, if any, may be treated with pepper, mace 
and ginger for a second quality. 

Tomato Ketchup. — Proceed as for mushroom ketchup, and add a 
little Chili pepper vinegar. 

To Take Fac-Shniles of Signatures. — Write your name on a piece 
of paper, and while the ink is wet sprinkle over it some finely-pow- 
dered gum arable, then make a rim rouHd it, and pour on it some 
fusible alloy, in a liquid state. Impressions may be taken from 
the plates formed in this way, by means of printing-ink and the 
copperplate-press. 

To Copy Letters without a Press. — A black copying ink, which flows 
easily from the pen, and will enable any one to obtain very sharp 
copies without the aid of a press, can be prepared in the following 
manner : One ounce of coarsely broken extract of logwood and 
two drachms of crystallized carbonate of soda are placed in a 
porcelain capsule with eight ounces of distilled water, and heated 
until the solution is of a deep red color, and all the extract is dis- 
solved. The capsule is then taken from the fire. Stir well into 
the mixture one ounce of glycerine of specific gravity of 1.25, fif- 
teen grains of neutral chromate of potash, dissolved in a little wa- 
ter, and two drachms of finely pulverized gum arable, which may 
be previously dissolved in a little hot water so as to produce a 
mucilaginous solution. The ink is now complete and ready for 
use. In well closed bottles it may be kept for a long time without 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. 03 

getting mouldy, and, however old it may be, will allow copies of 
writing to be taken without the aid of a pres^. It does not attack 
steel pens. This ink cannot be used with a copying press. Its 
impression is taken on thin moistened copj^ing paper, at the back 
of whicii is placed a sheet of writing paper. 

To Obtain Fresh Blown Flowers in Winter. — Choose some of the 
most perfect buds of the flowers you would preserve, such as are 
latest in blowing and ready to open ; cut them off with a pair of 
scissors, leaving to each, if possible, a piece of stem about three 
inches long ; cover the end of the stem immediately with sealing 
wax, and when the buds are a little shrunk and wrinkled, wrap 
each of them up separately in a piece of paper, perfectly clean and 
dry, and lock them up in a dry box or drawer ; and they will keep 
without corrupting. Ln winter, or at any time Avhen you would 
have the flowers blow, take the buds at night and cut oft the end 
of the stem sealed with wax, and put the buds into water wherein 
a little nitre or salt has been diffused, and the next day you will 
have the pleasure of seeing the buds open and expanding them- 
selves, and the flowers display their most lively colors, and 
breathe their agreeable odors. 

Chea2) Ice Cream. — Sweet milk, two quarts. Scald the milk, pour 
over four eggs, and stir well. Cool off and add sugar and essence 
of lemon or vanilla. Pour into a deep, narrow tin pail. Cover, 
and set into a wooden pail. Fill up the space between the two 
A'essels with pounded ice and salt. In half an hour it will be fit 
for use. Keep thus in the ice till wanted to use. 

To Take Impressions from Coins. — Make a thick solution of isin- 
glass in water, and lay it hot on tlie metal ; let it remain for twelve 
hours, then remove it, breathe on it and apply gold or silver-leaf 
on the wrong side. Any color may be given to the isinglass in- 
stead of gold or silver, by simple mixture. 

To Print Pictures from the Print Itself. — The page or print is soak- 
ed in a solution first of potass, and then of tartaric acid. This 
produces a perfect diffusion of crystals of bitartrate of potass 
through the texture of the unprinted part of the paper. As this 
salt resists oil, the ink roller may now be passed over the surface, 
without transferring any of its contents, except to the printed 
paper. 

To Preserve Steel Knives from Rust. — Never wrap them in woolen 
cloths. When they are not to be used for some time, have them 
made bright and perfectly dry ; then take a soft rag, and rub each 
blade with dry wood ashes. — Wrap them closely in thick brown 
paper, and lay them in a drawer or drj^ closet. A set of elegant 
knives, used only on great occasions, were kept in this way for 
over a hundred years without a spot of rust. 



6^ OUR KNOWLEDGE BOX. 

To Plate and Gild without a Battery. — A very useful solution of 
silver or gold for plating or gilding without tlic aid of a l)at- 
tcry may be made as follows : Take say, 1 ounce of nitrate of 
silver, dissolved in one quart of distilled or rain water. When 
thoroughl}^ dissolved, throw in a few crystals of hyposulphite of 
soda, which will at first form a brown precipitate, but which event- 
ually becomes redissolved if sufficient hyposulphite has been cm- 
ployed. A slight excess of this salt must, however, be added. 
The solution thus formed may be used for coating small articles 
of steel, brass, or German silver, by simply dipping a sponge in 
the solution and rubbing it over the surface of the article to be 
coated. I have succeeded in coating steel very satisfactorily by 
this means, and have found the silver so firmly attached to the 
steel (when the solution has been carefully made) that it has been 
removed with considerable difficult3^ A solution of gold may be 
made in the same way, and applied as described. A concentrated 
solution either of gold or silver thus made, may bo used for coat- 
ing parts of articles which have stripped or blistered, by applying 
it with a camel hair pencil to the part, and touching the spot at 
the same time with a thin clean strip of zinc. 

To make a Clock for 25 Cents. — First you get a sheet of stout mill- 
board, such as is used by bookbinders. This will cost you from 
six to ten cents. Get size twenty-seven by twenty-two inches. 
Draw two lines the longest way equally distant from the edge and 
each other. This divides it into three parts of the same size. 
Now from the top measure off ten inches for the face, and then 
with your knife partly cut the board through the rest of the lines 
below the face, and bend them back and glue together by putting 
a strip of cloth over the edges where they meet. Mark out the 
face of your clock, and make a hole for the hands. Go to your 
tinman, and he will make you a funnel-shaped spout, which you 
must glue on the bottom. Then make a spool like a cone — run- 
ning to a point on one end — and eight inches across on the other. 
"Wind a string on this cone, commencing at the large end, and 
winding down just as you would a top. Tie to the end a conical 
ink bottle filled with sand. Make some wooden hands, and put 
them on the face. Then fill your box, now made, with sand, and 
when it is hung up the sand will run out slowly at the bottom, and 
as the sand goes out the weights lower, and turn the wheel, which 
makes the hands go around. It will depend upon the size of the 
hole at the bottom as to how fast it runs. You can painii it, and 
make it quite an ornament and curiosity in your house. 



lEICKS AND DIVEHSIONS WITH CABDS. 
By Professor HAHTZ. 

An entirely new work, and contains all the tricks and deceptions with Cards as prac- 
ticed by this celebrated Prestidigitator. To lovers of the marvelous this book will be a 
perfect gid-send. They will find popularly explained simplified and adapted for 
Home Amusements, all Tricks performed by Sleight of Hand, by Mental Calculation, 
bv IMemory, by Arrangements of the Cards, by the aid of confederates, and by Me- 
chanical Contrivances. It explains fully. How to make the pass, giving a diagram 
showing the position of the fingers ; How to force a card ; How to smuggle a card ; lo 
slip a card ; To carry away a card ; and place a card. There are all the requirements 
necessary for a first cfass Prestidigitator. It also contains over one hundred marvelous 
and in<Tenious tricks as practiced by this wonderful Professor, and which justly entitled 
him to be called the " King of Cards." To make this valuable book even more com- 
plete, there has been added a complete Exposee of all the Card Tricks used by Profes- 
sional Gamblers to cheat their unwary victims. It is also illustrated with many 
handsome engaavings. Mailed for 30 cents. 



THE AMERICAN VENTEILOaUIST. 

Contains simple and full directions by which any one may acquire this amusing art. 
Also, numerous examples for practice, and instructions for making the Magic Whistle, 
for imitating Birds, Animals, and peculiar sounds of all kinds. Any boy who wishes to 
obtain an art by which he can develope a wonderful amount of astonishment, mystery 
and fun, should learn Ventriloquism, as he easily can. by following the simple secret as 

given in this book. Mailed for 15 cents. 



THE aHEAT NORTHERN WIZARD'S HAND-BOOK OF 

MAGIC. 

,A Book of Wonders and Mysteries Unveiled. It shows how to perform the most 
wonderful Tricks. Experiments and Feats. It.exhibi^ the Wonders of Natural Mag^ . 
Wonders of Chemistry ;• Wonders of Electricity ; Wonders of Coin Handling : Won- 
ders S White Sic ; Wonders of Galvanism ; Wonders of A agnetism ; Wonders of 
Legerdemain .Wonders of Sleight of Hand ; Wonders of Jugglery ; Wonders of Me- 
chanTcs; and Wonders of Figures. Also, the Art of ^^^W ^^7^^;^^' ^"^ "^^"^ 
other wonderful Tricks, Experiments and Feats. Mailed for ZO CentS. 



THE GUIDE TO POLITENESS: A HAND-BOOK OF 
GOOD MANNERS. 

Thk book treats on the Modern Customs of good Society in both Public and Private 
Li?eItTscune?f?om the very best authorities on Social Intercourse, and shows you 
fcw to act in any emergency. Ld how to enter, without t--^-^;™^"^; ^"{^^^'^^^^^ 
gathering. "Contents :-Dress ; Introductu^ns ; Cards; Shaking Hands Letters and 
Presents Conversation ; Morning Calls ; Dinners ; Carving : Balls; Evening Parties 
R^dTng and Driving ; The Promenade; Boating. Staying wid^ Friends ; and many 

usefbl and valuable hints. Mailed for 20 cents. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



I 




014 184 210 9 • 



The Lovers' Hand-Book Series, 



No. 1. LOVE-MAKING SECRETS, AND THE ART OP BEINO 

POPULAR WITH THE LADIES. 

This book will gladden the hearts of thousands of both sexes, and will cause 
many hearts and hands to be united in wedlock. No Maiden's heart can resist, if 
the instructions are followed in the manner here indicated. Firil and practical 
directions are given How to Woo and Win the most beautiful, most reserved, most 
romantic, most religious, most bashful, most poetic, most perverse, or, most refined 
girl that ever attempted, to bewilder an unfortunate man. It tells you, also, How 
to Court an Actress, Old Maid, Heiress, or Widow ; When Men and Women are 
adapted for Marriage ; How to choose a Wife, and live happily in the Nuptial 
state, and gives important counsels to the newly married pair. Mailed for 20 

cents. 

No. 2. CONFIDENTIAL ADVICE TO A LOVER. 

This book treats on the qualifications and essential characteristics necessary 
in a good Wife, and is a complete guide for the selection of a partner. The read- 
er will find many things, both new and strange, regarding Love. Many prudish ' 
persons may think the Mysteries of * Sparking too dark and solemn a subject to be 
treated in this manner, but after perusing this work, they will say to the daring 
author, " ivcUdone." Study this book first, and do your Courting afterwards, and 
you need never fear marrying a false, dissolute, shiftless or ill-tempered woman. 

Mailed for 20 cents. 

No. 3. BASHPULNESS : ITS CAUSE AND CURE. 

A book that will be welcomed with joy by thousands. It shows, How ease and 
elegance of Manner can be quickly gained ; How to remove diffidence, that peace- 
destroying want of confidence which troubles so many; How to cure Bashfulness 
in all its forms ; whether caused by lack of education, ignorance of the ways of 
society, ill-dress, or ill-health, and points out clearly How to acquire elegance and 
fluency of expression ; ease and polish of manner ; and a gracefiil, pleasing and 
dignified bearing ; alsp, How to please by delicate flattery of eye and manner ; How 
to be well informed and cultivated; How to be popular v/ith the Ladies; and 
many other points absolutely necessary to the Bashful Lover. Mailed for 20 

cents. 

No. 4. VIGOR, BEAUTY, AND ELEGANCE, 

A>'D THE SciENCi; AND AllT OF DkESSING WITH TaSTE. 

This is the best work ever published on Beauty and Development. By following 
its precepts the Homely become Handsome ; the Weak become Strong and Vigor- 
ous ; the Rude, Clumsy and Uncultivated become Elegant and Refined ; the 
Lean become Plump ; the Corpulent become Slender. It shows. How to become 
Good-Looking ; How to improve the Complexion ; make the Skin White and 
Soft ; remove Freckles, Warts and Corns ; make the Eyes Beautiful ; prevent the 
Hair from Falling Out ; prevent Gray Hair ; promote the Growth of the Beard ; 
cure Baldness ; remove Superfluous Haii Also, How to_ Preserve the Teeth ; 
How to have White Hands and Beautiful Nails ; How to increase the Memory ; 
prolong Life; cure Nervous Ailments ; How to Dress cheaply, yet elegantly, and 
acquire a graceful carriage. To which is added a list of Colors arranged in harmo- 
nious groups, showing all those that make agreeable combinations. This book will 
be found an essential companion for all those who desire to become beautiful, 
elegant and graceful. Mailed for 25 CentS. 



