Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



h- 




e 



»K 



ON DIET AND REGIMEN 

Etc. 



y 



ON 



DIET AND EEGIMEN 



IN 



SICKNESS AND HEALTH 



AND 



ON THE INTERDEPENDENCE AND PREVENTION OF DISEASES 
AND THE DIMINUTION OP THEIR FATALITY 



BI 



HORACE DOBELL, M.D. 

XONSULTING PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR DISEASES OP THE CHEST 
PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL ALBERT ORPHAN ASYLUM, 

ETC., ETC. 



SIXTH EDITION REVISED AND ENLARGE 




LONDON : 
ja. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, W.C. 

1876. 



JSL n. 2t)^ 



(187a) 
Once more i may repeat the thanks, 

expressed in all the former editions of this work, 

for the generous assistance i had received 

in my scientific calculations 

from the arithmetical skill of my dear old friend 

J. J. FARRANTS, F.R.C.S. 

LATE, PRESIDENT OF THE MICROSCOPICAL SOCIETY; 

WHOSE GENIAL SPIRIT 

HAS NOW FOR EVER PASSED 

BEYOND THE REGIONS OF SCIENCE AND CALCULATION 

TO 

"THAT UNKNOWN, TRACKLESS LAND, FUTURITY; 
GREAT HERITAGE, WHERE NO MAN KNOWS HIS PART." 



PREFACE TO THE SIXTH EDITION. 



In introducing a former edition of this work^ I stated that 
tny object and endeavonr had been to produce a small 
hook founded upon accurate scientific data — a book from 
which a doctor might refresh his memory^ and at the 
same time one which he might safely place in the hands 
of his patients^ to enlighten them on some of those impor-- 
tant points which ought to be understood by the non-pro* 
fessional and to teach them how vast and intricate is the 
science and art of '' rational medicine" 

This object and endeavour I have steadily kept in view, 
in preparing the present edition. To keep it '' small/' I 
have cut out all that I thought could be spared ; while to 
maintain its character as a scientific and practical ''re- 
fresher^' to both doctor and patient, I have been obliged 
somewhat to increase the size of the volume by the follow- 
ing additions : — 

In Chapter I. fresh matter is added under the heads 
'' Smoking'' and "Afternoon Tea." 

In Chapter II. I have added a new column to the Ana- 
lysis Table, giving the Mechanical Equivalents of the 
British units of heat for each article analysed; also a Table 
of the weight and cost of various alimentary articles re* 



• •• 



VIU PBIf AGS. 

quired to yield suj£cient force to raise a certain weight to 
a certain height; and an epitome^ by a well known writer^ 
of the most recent views with regard to food, heat, and 
motion. 

In Chapter III. I have added thirteen pages '' On the 
Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles of 
food/' which I hope will be of much use to those who 
desire to avoid dyspepsia ; and a Table is given shewing 
the percentage of water in various foods in common use; 
and some remarks on different modes of cooking. 

In Chapter V. I have added to the article " On Getting 
Thin/' some directions for '' Getting Fat'' ; and I would 
especially call the attention of parents and of children's 
doctors to an article on '^ Fat and Starch in the Nutrition 
ofChildren/'atp. 112. 

In Chapter VI. I have added some remarks on '' Acid, 
Gout and Bheumatism &om Fermented Liquors." 

In Chapter VIII. I have added new Eecipes, Direc- 
tions, and Appliances for the Sick-room, under numbers 
4, 11, 12, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21. 

In Part II., Chapter IX., a Table shewing ''the Inter- 
dependence of Winter Cough with other Diseases" has 
been introduced ; and, finally, the Index has been tho- 
roughly revised. 

84 Horley Street. 

April, 1875. 



PREFACE TO FIFTH EDITION. 



This work was much enlarged and nearly re- written in its 
last edition just two years ago^ and it has now been tho- 
roughly revised. 

Much new matter has been introduced^ and some of the 
old re-arranged. 

With the valuable assistance of my Mend Mr. J. L. 
Johnston^ late Principal Inspector of Customs Labora- 
tories^ the Alcohol Table has been completely re-cast, and 
is now, I believe, as nearly perfect as it is possible to make 
it. The Articles on Wines and on House-Drainage and 
the Orphanage Diet Table are quite new ; and other alter- 
ations will be found, which I hope will make the book 
more worthy of the favourable reception it has already 
received. 

84 Harley Street. 
May, 1872. 



PREFACE TO FOUETH EDITION. 



My "Manual of Diet and Eegimen" whicli appeared in* 
1864 having run through two editions in its first year^ 
I published a third and revised edition in January, 1865. 
This has long been out of print, and, as the demand for 
the Manual did not decrease, I have been repeatedly 
urged to prepare a fourth edition. After many delays, 
from the interruption of other professional work, I have, 
at last, re-written the book, adding much new matter and 
incorporating several contributions, which I have pub- 
lished from time to time, on subjects relating to the pre- 
servation of health. I hope it will be found that I have, 
thus materially increased the usefulness of the work with- 
out adding inconveniently to its length. My object and 
endeavour has been to produce a small book founded 
upon accurate scientific data but essentially practical : a. 
book from which a doctor may refresh his memory, and 
at the same time one which he may safely place in the 
hands of his patients, to enlighten them on some of those 
important points which ought to be understood by the 
non-professional, and to teach them how vast and intri- 
cate is the science and art of rational medicine. Thus, to> 



make them more inteDigent patients, and in so doing to 
remove some of the doctor's difficulties in healing them 
when they are sick, and when they are well to strengthen 
his hands in the presenrati^m of their health. 

It giyes me great pleasure to be able to renew the 
thanks I expressed in 1864 to mj friend Mr. Farrants, at 
that time President of the Microscopical Sodeiy, for the 
valoable assistance I haye so frequently received from his 
remarkable analytical and arithmetical talents. 

84 Harlej Street 
May, 1870. 



CONTENTS. 



FSELIMINABT BEHABES. 

PAQB 

The Interdependence of Diseases — ^Narrow Specialities and Broad De- 
partments in the Practice of Medicine — ^Normal Diet — Errors in 
Diet — ^The Diet of Disease — ^Food, Heat^ and Motion — Getting Fat 
and Getting Thin — ^Alcohol, its proper place in Diet — Begimen— > 
The Begxdation of Habits — Honse-Drainage — Importance of Sleep 
— ^Proper Honrs for Meals— Disinfection — ^Psendo-Medical Dogmas, 
Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, E^inesipathy — Bational Med- 
icine 1 



PART I. 



Chapter I. 

BULES FOB PBOMOTING AND MAINTAINING VIGOBOUS 
HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING IN THE CLIMATE OP THE 
UNITED KINGDOM. 

Ventilation and Heating — Gas — Honse-Drainage — Clothing and Protec- 
tion from Cold — Sleep — Exercise — Posture — Bathing — Begulation 
of the Bowels — ^Best and Change — Smoking — Meals — Proper Hours 
for Meals— Afternoon Tea 12 

Chaptbb II. 

FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

A foot-pound, a foot- ton, a British unit of heat — Mechanical-Equiralent 
of a British unit of heat — Combustion of Carbon, Consumption of 
Oxygen, Evolution of Heat — Mode in which the Heat evolved from 
Food is disposed of— Composition of some of the principal articles of 
of Food and their Heat-Equivalents and Mechanical-Equivalents — 
Weight and cost of Food compared with work produced — Uses of 
Nitrogenous and Non* Nitrogenous Foods ...... 61 



mv CONTENTS. 

Chapter III. 

NOBMAL DI£T. 

PAOB 

Eiisentials of a Normal Diet — ^Mode of constmcting Diets — Expensive 
Diets and Cheap Diets for maintaining health — ^Tables and Analyses 
— The Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles of Food 
— Modes of Cooking in common use Gl 

Chapter IV. 

SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

Principles upon which to arrange the Diet of Disease — ^Boles for carry- 
ing out these Principles — Examples of Diets for Consumption, and 
for Diabetes 89 

Chapter V. 

FAT. 

Fat essential to Healthy Nutrition — Importance of distinguishing be- 
tween Solid and Liquid Fat — On Getting Thin — ^Bantingism — ^Ana- 
lysis of Banting- Diet, showing its errors and advantages— On Get- 
ting Fat — Fat and Starch in the Nutrition of Children . . . 105 

Chapter VI. 

FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

Administration of Alcohol — Properties of various Wines — Wines in Gen- 
eral—Spanish Wines — German Wines — Hungarian Wines — Greek 
Wines — ^Add, Gout, Rheumatism — Acid and Sugar in Spirituous 
Liquors — ^Ardent Spirits and their Peculiarities — ^Alcohol Table 
showing the Analysis of Spirituous Liquors 123 

Chapter VII. 

DISINFECTION. 

Media by which the Catching Diseases are ommunicatcd — Means for 
preventing Infection and Contagion — Directions for the Sick room 
and Attendants — Precautions to be used by Doctors — ^Mode of 
cleansing apartments after illness — Proper methods of using 
Chloride of Lime, Carbolic Acid, and Condy's Fluid .... 143 



CONTENTS. 

Chapter VIII. 

SPECIAL EEOIPES, DIRECTIONS, AND APPLIAJ^OES FOE THE 

SICK-EOOM. 

PAGE 

Farinaceous Articles— Beef Tea — ^Liebig's Extract of Meat — ^Brand's 
Meat JeUy and SoUd Beef Tea— Darby's Fluid Meat— White of Egg 
— Whey— Animal Foods Ee-cooked — ^Bread— Special Eestorative — 
Special Nutritiye — Cocoa and Egg— Invalid Soup — Combinations of 
Alimentary Principles in Normal Proportions — Port Wine Jelly — 
Suet and Milk — Milk with Bum, &c. — ^Nutritive Enemata — ^Nutri- 
tive Mixture — Cerealin Tea — ^Poultices and Poulticing by Steam — 
Inhalations — Nash's Bronchitis Kettle — ^Warm Baths — Lights in 
the Sick-room — ^Nursing Schedule 150 



PAET II. 

ON THE INTEEDEPENDENCE AND PREVENTION OF DISEASES 
AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIE FATALITY, 



Chaptbe IX. 

The Duties of Medical Men — ^The Interdependence of Diseases shewing 
the importance of Periodical Examinations 163 

Chapter X. 

ANEMIA 186 

Chafter XI, 

FATTY DEGENERATION 192 

Chapter XII. 

ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES 201 

Appendix. 

Alcohol- Experiments on the effects of Alcohol on the Human Body — 
Dust and Disease — Special Action of the Pancreas on Fat and 
Starch — ^Importance and Dangers of Rest in Pulmonary Consump- 
tion — On the Digestibility of Gelatine-yielding Tissues— Nutritive 
Enemata 209 



ON 

DIET, REGIMEN, 

&C., &C. 



PEBLIMINAET EBMAEKS. 

THE INTERDEPENDENCE OP DISEASES — NARROW SPECIALITIES AND 
BROAD DEPARTMENTS IN THE PRACTICE OP MEDICINE- 
NORMAL DIET — ERRORS IN DIET — THE DIET OP DISEASE — 
FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION — GETTING FAT AND GETTING THIN 
— ^ALCOHOL, ITS PROPER PLACE IN DIET — REGIMEN — THE 
REGULATION OP HABITS — HOUSE-DRAINAGE — IMPORTANCE 
OP SLEEP — PROPER HOURS FOR MEALS — DISINFECTION 

PSEUDO-MEDICAL DOGMAS, ALLOPATHY, HYDROPATHY, 

HOM(EOPATHY, KINESIPATHY — RATIONAL MEDICINE. 

In the practice of Eational Medicine, there are many sub- 
jects upon which the wise Physician is always glad to find 
that his patient has some knowledge as well as himself. 
Among these I know of none more important than the 
interdependence of Diseases and the principles of Diet and 
Eegimen, 

There are few medical questions which so test the depth 
and extent of a doctor's acquirements as the interdepen- 
dence OP DISEASES — ^by which I mean, the way in which 
one disease leads to another, substitutes another, aggra- 
vates, or relieves another; the way in which disease ap- 
pearing at one part of the body, depends upon the de- 
rangement of another part, perhaps distantly separated ; 
the way in which disease of one kind in an ancestor, leads 
^ ^ B 



2 PRKLIMJNABT REMARKS 

to disease of several different kinds in the descendants ; 
the way in which one general morbid cause may produce 
different effects upon different persons, according to the 
conditions of health in which they happen to be at the 
time ; and numberless other similar phenomena. 

These are matters of the highest importance in the 
right management and treatment of disease, yet they are 
60 little understood, that the pains taken by a conscien- 
tious doctor in their investigation are not appreciated by 
the majority of persons. Thus it is that patients so often 
fail to discriminate between the wisdom of the man who 
will not prescribe for a part of the body until he has learnt 
the condition of the whole, and the ad captandum ignor- 
ance of another man who will prescribe unhesitatingly for 
a disorder of the whole body without previously ascertain- 
ing whether it depends upon disease of a part. 

The chief objection to specialities in medical practice is 
the danger, that the doctor who treats but one part of the 
body may lose sight of the interdependence of diseases. 
This must always be a grave objection to very nari'ow 
specialities, but it does not apply to the broad division of 
the practice of medicine into Departments — ^that is to say, 
such a reasonable application of the principles of the 
'^ division of labour*^ as shall enable each practitioner, not 
only to completely master the department of Medicine 
which he selects for special study, but to advance the 
general knowledge of the profession by his investigations 
and experience. 

For example, diseases of the ear are often dependent 
upon, or are connected with, diseases of other parts of the 
body; and the doctor who confines his practice to diseases 
of the ear may be in danger of losing sight of the broad 
facts of medicine, and in attempting to cure the ear may 
damage the body; but by extending his practice to all the 



ON DIET AND BEGIMSN. 3 

organs of special sense, which might fairly form a depart- 
ment of Medicine, he would be obliged to take in a range 
of observation and thought which would enforce a know- 
ledge of the interdependence of diseases. , 

Again — Diseases of the heart and arteries are intimately 
connected with those of the lungs and throat ; diseases of 
the lungs with those of the heart, arteries, and windpipe ; 
diseases of the brain with those of the lungs, heart, and 
arteries ; and all of these are often inseparably connected, 
in the relation of cause or effect with affections of the sto- 
mach, liver, pancreas, kidneys, intestinal glands, etc., etc. 
Therefore, for a doctor to limit his practice to diseases of 
the heart, to diseases of the throat, to diseases of the 
lungs, or to diseases of the windpipe, is to constitute a 
speciality so narrow that he is in danger of losing sight of 
the great principles of medicine. If, on the other hand, . 
he selects for special study and practice such a broad 
department as Diseases of the Chest — that is to say, of all 
the respiratory and circulatory organs, and the associated 
processes of digestion and assimilation — he will be obliged 
to take in a range of observation and thought necessi- 
tating a constant remembrance of the interdependence 
of diseases, and he will be competent to deal with all 
classes of disease as well as those pecuUar to his pwn de- 
partment. I have instanced Diseases of the Chest be- 
cause it is one of most important '' lines^' of practice, and 
the one with which I am most intimately associated, but 
the same remarks apply to Obstetrics, to Fevers, to the 
Diseases of Children, and to other large divisions of medi- 
cine. Thus departments of medical practice may be wisely 
selected by different medical men for special study — ^but 
narrow specialities are dangerous and objectionable, unless 
those who confine themselves to them are content to act 
simply as the assistants of the more general physicians 

B 2 



4 PBEUMINABT BBMABES 

and surgeons, which is not likely to be the case. (See 

Part II., ^^ON THE INTEEDEPENDENCB AND PREVENTION OF 
DISEASES AND THE DIMINUTION OP THEIR FATALITY.'^) 

Diet is so little understood that, very often, those are 
the best off who abstain from all attempts to meddle with 
it and are content to follow the dictates of their instinct. 
This, of course, ought not to be the case, for diet, properly 
understood, may be made a powerful agent in the restora- 
tion and maintenance of health ; and errors of diet are 
at all times capable of becoming serious causes of disease. 

But, unfortunately, interference with diet, like all good 
things, is particularly open to abuse, for nothing is 
easier than to lay down a complicated code of restriqtions 
and rules as to '^ what to eat, drink, and avoid'^ and the 
patient is very apt to think that the skill of the doctor 
increases with the number and variety of his orders. But 
those who understand the principles of diet know that 
the reverse is much nearer to the truth, and that learning 
and skill in dieting a patient, are shown by the wisdom 
with which the doctor, instead of meddling with unimpor- 
tant details, seizes upon the few essential points on which 
the vice or virtue of a diet will generally be found to turn. 
Thus, in a case of diabetes (See Diet for Diabetes, Chapter 
IV.), the ignorant intermeddler may order fifty restrictions 
without doing his patient the slightest good; whereas, 
the doctor who understands the nature of the disease and 
the principles of diet, will speedily relieve his sufferings 
by telling him to take whatever he likes, so long as he 
touches nothing which contains starch or sugar. Thus, 
again, I have often seen patients suffering from acid 
dyspepsia who have been ordered an^ forbidden so many 
different articles of food that their lives were rendered 
miserable, without the slightest relief to their complaint, 
whereas, by forbidding them to take cheese and malt 



ON DIET AND BEGIMEN. 5 

liquor — the chief factors of their malady — and allowing 
them to eat and drink whatever else they pleased, their 
sufferings have been speedily removed and their lives 
made enjoyable. 

It is absolutely necessary that he who ventures to inter- 
fere with a person^s diet should first understand the prin- 
ciples upon which the food of health is regulated in na- 
ture ; and nothing assists the intelligent doctor more in 
getting his orders carried out, than for his patient, as well 
as himself, to be acquainted with this subject. Ignorance 
and stupidity are the constant obstacles in the proper 
regulation of these matters. To elucidate this part of the 
subject, I have drawn up a brief statement of the '' Essen- 
tials of a normal dief (See Chapter III.) This is illus- 
trated by a set of tables, showing the method by which 
diets may be arranged so that they shall equally well 
support the human body in a state of normal health and 
strength, whether they consist of a complicated list of 
expensive articles, or, of no more than Bread, Cheese, 
Butter, Cresses and Water. In addition to this, I have 
introduced a Chapter ^^on the tvholesomeness and digesti- 
bility of various articles of food,'' (Chapter III.) 

The advances of science have, of late, thrown most im- 
portant light upon the connection between food and 
FORCE, a subject of the greatest interest to all, whether 
medical or not ; for, as we all take food and all desire to 
be strong, we are unavoidably fascinated by the inquiry 
what kind of food will give us the greatest amount of 
force. I have, therefore, introduced a short Chapter ^^ Oti 
Food, Heat and Motion/^ (Chapter II.) 

The question of " getting fat or getting thin/' whether in 
health or disease, is one inseparable from the subject of 
food and force, for we have discovered that heat is but a 
mode of motion,* and that those elements of food capable 

* See Frof^ Tyndall's Lectures : Heai a Mode of Motion^ 



6 PRKLIMINABT BIMARK8 

of liberating the largest amount of heat^ may be utilised 
as accumulators of fat by economising the motion and 
heat of the body, and vice versa. In the Chapter " On 
Food, Heat and Motion/' I have introduced a table, 
shewing the composition of some of the most impor- 
tant articles of food, and the amount of heat to be got out 
of equal quantities of each, and I have also stated the 
amount of mechanical fprce equivalent to a given quantity 
of heat. In order to elucidate the importance of fat, and 
the subject of getting fat or losing fat by alterations of 
diet, I have introduced some remarks on " Bantingism," 
on the means which promote the accumulation of fat, and 
on the importance of distinguishing between solid and 
Uquid fat, (See Chapter V.) 

From what I have already said, and from the articles 
referred to, it must be clear that nothing can take preced- 
ence of proper food among the means for the preservation 
of the pubUc health ; and when health is lost, whether by 
unavoidable disease or by other causes, nothing can be 
more important than to understand the leading principles 
which should guide us in altering the food to meet the 
conditions of disease, and thus to convert diet into a 
powerful instrument for the restoration of health. This is 
a subject which could not be fully discussed in a small 
work like the present, but in Chapter IV., "On some Prin- 
ciples of Diet in Disease/' I have given some rules for 
the regulation of the food in various diseases, illustrated 
by Diet Tables for Consumption and Diabetes. 

The subject of Alcohol, which has of late years occupied 
so much attention, both in the scientific and in the reli- 
gious world, and which has been so grievously misrepre- 
sented and misunderstood, is now placed upon a more 
reasonable footing, some plain facts having been unques- 
tionably established by the dispassionate investigations of 



ON DIET AND BSGIMEN. 7 

practical and scientific men. In this country we are 
particularly indebted to Dr. Anstie and Dr. Parkes for 
their investigations on this subject. (See Appendix I. 
and II.) 

It is now quite certain^ as I have long maintained^ that 
alcohol is food — ^that is to say^ that it is consumed in the 
body by a process of oxidation similar to that which other 
kinds of food undergo^ that during its combustion force is 
liberated^ and the demand for other kinds of food dimin* 
ished. Alcohol, therefore, is able to save the combustion 
of the elements of tissue formation, by vicarious oxidation 
of itself. 

It is quite certain that alcohol is one of the most readily 
oxidisable substances capable of being introduced into the 
animal organism. In this consists its chief value and its 
chief danger ; for, on the one hand, it is able to replenish 
the lamp of life with so little tax upon the digestive func- 
tions and with so little loss of time, that nothing can take 
its place when these are the desiderata of most urgent im- 
port. But, on the other hand, this extraordinary facility 
for oxidation makes the presence of alcohol in the system 
a most dangerous impediment to the combustion of those 
less readily oxidisable matters, the full and regular com- 
bustion of which is absolutely essential to the continuance 
of normal health. 

. It is quite certain that alcohol is not an indispensable 
article of daily food ; a normal diet may be perfectly well 
constructed without it, and a healthy person, under fa- 
vourable circumstances, can live without it, just in fact, as 
the lower animals do. But it is also quite certain that 
alcohol is a most blessed gift of Providence, when rightly 
understood and wisely used. It is the endowment of man 
with those higher attributes which principally distinguish 
him from the brutes, that constitutes the element in his 



8 PBBLIHINABT BEMABES 

nature which has made it necessary to his welfare that 
Providence should give him this peculiar article of food, in 
addition to all those placed within the reach of the less 
intellectual animals. 

Thus it is a fact, that while man is brutalized by the 
ahvse of alcohol, its proper tLse is one of his distinctions 
from the brutes. 

Alcohol may perhaps be best described as a Medicinal 
Food. It is essentially a poison, although in its proper 
use it is an indispensable element in the Ufe and happiness 
of highly civilized society. But it ought always to be 
regarded as a most treacherous friend. 

I have drawn up an "alcohol table/' (see Chap. VI.), the 
result of many careful analyses of each article so as to pre- 
sent a fair average result, from which it can be seen, at a 
glance, what quantity by measure of each of the ordinary fer- 
mented liquors represents one ounce by weight of absolute 
alcohol. The table includes a statement of the proportion 
of carbon, and of some other matters, contained in fer- 
mented liquors, besides the alcohol. But it must always 
be remembered that different kinds of fermented liquors 
represent many other influences for good or evil, in a 
dietetic point of view, in addition to those possessed by 
the alcohol, all of which require consideration in selecting 
the particular beverage suitable to any given case. I have 
therefore devoted some pages to a consideration of the 
general and special properties of fermented liquors. (See 
Chapter VI.) 

It will be observed that T have omitted alcohol from 
all the Tables of Normal Diet, leaving it to be added in 
any form and quantity that circumstances may render 
most advisable. According to my own experience, based 
upon long and careful observation, an average-sized adult 
man taking moderate exercise may drink with advantage 



ON DIET AND EEGIMEN. V 

enough fermented liquors^ each 24 hours, to represent 
from one to two ounces avoirdupois of absolute alcohol* 
— provided it be always diluted to the extent of 10 fluid 
ounces (half-a-pint imperial) of water or some other un- 
fermented liquor to each ounce avoirdupois of absolute 
alcohol, and that it be taken when there is food in the 
stomach. (See Chapter III.) 

Eegimen, or the regulation of habits, could not be fully 
discussed .without involving physiological and other de- 
tails which would have far over-run the limits of this 
book. I have, therefore contented myself with laying 
down, as concisely as possible, such rules as my own ex- 
perience, added to that of others, has taught me are most 
necessary and most suitable to the generality of persons. 
They must, of course, be modified to suit peculiar consti- 
tutions, idiosyncrasies, and other circumstances, and to 
meet thd various conditions of disease. In connection 
with these Eules poe Maintaining Vigorous Health, T 
have introduced an article '' on the Importance of Proper 
Hours for Meals/' also a number of valuable suggestions 
^^ on House Drainage/' for which I am indebted to an 
experienced architect, (see Chapter I.) On the subject of 
exercise and training, in addition to the rules I have laid 
down, I advise everyone to read ''A System of Physical 
Education," by Archibald Maclaren, of the Gymnasium, 
Oxford, an admirable treatise issued from the Clarendon 
Press. 

As a necessary part of a work like the present, having 
for its object the preservation of health, I have added 
a chapter (Chapter VII.) on Disinfection, with rules for 
preventing the spread of the ^^ Catching Diseases." It 

• It will be seen by the resume of Dr. Farkes' and Count WoUowicz* re - 
cent experiments (soe appendix) that their results confirm the opinion at 
which I had long before arrived, by a different process. 



10 PBELIMINABT B1MABK8 

is one of the opprobria of the present day that these 
diseases are so calpably propagated by the negligence of 
the heads of families to insist upon precautions^ now well 
known to be capable of preventing contagion and infection. 
And in Chapter YIII. wiU be found some special directions 
for the sick room. 

In concluding these preliminary remarks I must not lose 
the opportunity of expressing my opinion upon a matter 
regarding which there is great misapprehension^ and^ 
I regret to say, intentional misrepresentation. I refer 
to the subject of pseudo-medical-dogmaSy such as are in- 
volved in the terms Allopathy, Hydropathy, Homoeopathy, 
Kinesipathy, &c., and in such expressions as ^'a stim- 
ulating system,'^ "a depleting system,^^ "similia simili- 
bus curantur,^' '^ contraria contraribus curantur,^^ and the 
like. 

I disclaim them all, and I feel sure that in this state- 
ment I express the sentiment of the majority of think- 
ing medical men. It is utterly unworthy of the professor 
of a science and art so great as medicine, to " pin him- 
self to such narrow dogmas and rules of thought and 
practice as are indicated by one and all of these expres- 
sions. 

The practice of rational medicine — Shaving for its sub- 
ject not only that most complex and wonderful fabric 
the animal organism, but that organism endowed with 
all those attributes which place man but ^' a little lower 
than the angels^^ — demands that there shall not be any- 
thing excluded from its service, and that every science 
and every art shall combine, at its bidding, to assuage 
the suffering and to save the life of Nature's highest 
earthly creature. 

Every honest and intelligent practitioner of rational 
medicine knows, that there are remedies of unquestionable 



ON DIET AND RSaiHEN. 11 

potency the action of which could never have been dis- 
covered by any such dogmas as "contraria contraribus 
curantur^' or '^ similia similibus curantur/^ On the other 
hand^ he knows that there are remedies the action of 
which may appear to be explained by one or other of 
these principles, but that the more intimately we become 
acquainted with the occult properties of medicines and the 
occult physiology of diseases, the more plainly do we see 
that these apparent explanations of the modus operandi of 
remedies are absurdly superficial and incorrect. He will 
not, then, refuse to benefit his patient by the use of the 
one remedy because he cannot explain its action, or of the 
other because it appears to act by similarity, or of a third 
because he thinks it acts by contrariety. Again, he knows 
that the same disease may assume such different phases, 
in different constitutions, at different times and in difier- 
ent places that in one case it may require " stimulation,^' 
in another '^ depletion,^' that at one period of the same 
case, ^' water treatment^' may be advisable, at another 
^^ gymnastic,^' at another " mechanical,^' at another " cK- 
matic.'' And he claims these, and all other means bene- 
ficently placed within our reach which can protect health 
or benefit the sick, as the legitimate weapons in the 
armoury of rational medicine. 

Every theory, every system, every dogma, must give 
place, at last, before the fact, once unquestionably proved^ 
that such or such a remedy is best for such or such an 
occasion. 

Therefore, in my opinion, all men who ''pin their faith'' 
on narrow dogmas, stamp themselves thereby as unfit for 
the practice of rational medicine. 



PART I. 

Chaftbb I. 

EULES FOE PEOMOTING AND MAINTAINING 
VIGOEOUS HEALTH IN ADULTS LIVING IN 
THE CLIMATE OP THE UNITED KINGDOM. 

VENTILATION AND HEATING GAS — HOUSE-DEAINAGB — CLOTHING 

AND PROTECTION FBOM COLD — SLEEP — EXERCISE — POSTURE 

— BATHING REGULATION OP THE BOWELS— BEST AND 

CHANGE — SMOKING — MEALS — PROPER HOURS FOB MEALS 

AFTEENOON TEA. 

*«* These Bules will require to be modified by the medical man to suit 
special cases. 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 

No Sitting or sleeping room should be left long with- 
out a fire, and every room in which persons live, either by 
day or by night, should have some opening by which it 
communicates directly with the outer air ; but this should 
be so arranged that no draught can fall upon the persons 
in the room. 

If several rooms are occupied by turns during the 
twenty-four hours, the temperature of any one should not 
diflFer greatly from that of the rest. 

No draught should blow upon a bed, and during 
sleep the whole body should have one covering at least of 
woollen material ; for, while it is very important to keep 
the air of sleeping rooms fresh, it must be remembered 
that the b6dy is more susceptible to chills during sleep 



VENTILATION AND HEATING. 13 

than waking, and that changes in the temperature of the 
outer air are especially apt to occur during the night, and 
are, therefore, in danger of producing chills before they 
are observed. (See Sleep). 

All arrangements for ventilation must be based upon 
the following facts : — 

The rate of respiration in an average sized adult man 
is about 16 times per minute, and each such respiration 
vitiates about 1 cubic foot of normal atmospheric air ; so 
that each adult man vitiates 960 cubic feet of air per hour, 
and consequently will require a supply of fresh air at that 
rate ; or in round numbers 1000 cubic feet per hour. 

This supply of fresh air can be provided by observing 
the following conditions : — 

A current of air travelling at the rate of 36 linear inches 
per second is not perceptible as a draught, and at that 
rate t)f movement 1 J cubic feet per minute or 75 per hour 
will be admitted by an aperture of 1 square inch sectional 
area, communicating directly with the outer air. 

If, therefore, an apartment is provided with an aper- 
ture having a ratio of 1 square inch sectional area to each 
75 feet of cubic capacity, the whole air of the apartment 
will be changed once per hour. 

Supposing, then, that the cubic capacity of an apart- 
ment is in the proportion of 1000 feet to each person in it, 
the requisite supply of fresh air may be obtained, without 
draught, through an aperture of from 13 to 14 square 
inches sectional area to each 1000 feet of cubic capacity. 

But if the cubic capacity of the apartment is only in the 
proportion of 500 feet for each person in it, the air must 
be changed twice per hour in order to supply the requisite 
1000 cubic feet of fresh air for each person. 

When gas is burnt in cm apartment the following facts 
must be borne in mind, in addition to the foregoing, for 
the purposes of ventilation : — 



14 HOnSI-DBAINAOE. 

One cubic foot of ordinary London coal gas produces^ 
in burning, 2 -thirds of a cubic foot of carbonic acid, about 
the amount produced per hour by the respiration of one 
adult man, — and as an ordinary fish-tail gas-burner con- 
sumes about 3 cubic feet of gas per hour, it produces in 
that time as much carbonic acid as the respiration of three 
adults. In addition to this there are various highly injur- 
ious emanations from the burning gaa. 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

The following valuable practical suggestions from an ex- 
perienced architect, (G. E. Peitchbtt, F.S.A., P.RJ.B.A.,) I 
give in his own words, as conveyed in a letter to me. 

Architects have opportunities where other persons have 
not of observing the action of drains; the evil conse- 
quences of their misconstruction; of their too frequent 
proximity to wells of drinking water through additions 
and alterations of buildings, or otherwise ; of soakage 
from cesspools; of evaporation of water fr^m so-called 
" traps,^^ &c. The opportunities referred to must there- 
fore be my apology for venturing to address you on this 
subject, and you are quite at Hberty to make use of the 
hints in this paper if they are likely to be of any service to 
the community. 

I will commence, then, my observations by the some- 
what startUng and unpleasant enquiry which should be 
put to every householder, "Where are your drains and 
cesspools situated?" This is a question very closely 
linked with the preservation of life and health as you are 



HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 15 

aware ; yet, on this enquiry being made, many tenants at 
once admit, that they do not know, that they have no 
idea ; that they have been in the house many years and 
are only aware, perhaps, of one drain from the scullery- 
sink which drips into a ditch or pond, or public sewer; 
that their fathers added a wing to the house, containing a 
large dining and drawing room, that there is at times a 
faint smell in these rooms, and the same unaccountable 
smell when a few friends visit them and when the shutters 
and curtains are drawn and good fires kept up ; that the 
ladies are constantly troubled with headache, nausea, and 
lassitude ; that the children are feverish at times, and 
death among them is not unknown ! Could these house- 
holders only see the old brick barrel-drain and the foetid 
cesspool, with its outlet cut off perhaps, inclosed in this 
wing, and the rats and insects working their holes in it a 
very little distance below the unventilated floors, they 
would get out of the house as quickly as their legs cotdd 
carry them. 

If premises which have been added to from time to 
time are pulled down, and especially where a faint smell 
has been noticed, you may be greatly astonished to find a 
barrel-drain crossing the house, cut through or broken in 
before reaching the cesspool or outlet, and a mass of de- 
composing matter extending a considerable distance under 
the floors of the rooms, in consequence of the drain being 
stopped. This occurred without the knowledge of an 
unfortunate householder who at times perceived a faint 
smell, but having got used to it disregarded it : hav- 
ing, however, lost a valuable life in the death of the 
mother of his young family, and having carried some of 
his children to her grave, he determined to pull down the 
rooms and build more airy ones, little thinking what he 
should discover. It was in this case the want of quality 
in the air more than of quantity that caused his losses. 



16 HOUSE-DRAIKAOE. 

My object in mentioning such cases is to rouse every 
householder to trace his drains to their outlets, let him 
see that they are clear and that they have no holes in 
them, and that they are laid to a good fall. 

If premises are your own do not mind spending a few 
pounds. If necessary take out the barrel-drains and put 
in socket-pipes, truly and well laid on concrete, covered 
with concrete and jointed in cement, this will keep out 
rats and vermin and worms, and prevent noxious gases 
collecting under your floors. 

If your floors are not ventilated, see if this cannot be 
done. 

If you are about to purchase or hire a nice-looking 
newly-built house, do not for a moment suppose or take 
for granted that the drains are " all right,^^ for in many 
new houses the drainage is only run out a little way from 
the walls and not led anywhere, but left for someone to 
complete after his family has been struck down, and who 
upon digging up his flower-beds and destroying the 
growth of his shrubs and everything else, in pursuit of the 
drains, finds that they are choked, and full of worms and 
black stuff, and go nowhere. 

Whether you occupy an old or a new house and pre- 
mises, caution is equally necessary. Look at all your 
surface-gratings, whether in your paths, your stable-yard, 
your conservatories, porches, lobbies, or wherever they 
may be, with great suspicion, especially in dry weather. 
People will sometimes say to themselves when walking 
about premises, '^ wherever does that smell come from ?*^ 
little thinking that the water has evaporated from the 
traps. These surface drains should not be connected with 
sewer drains at all, but should have a separate service of 
pipes. 

See where the rain-water descending pipes run to, look 



HOUSB-DEAINAQB. 17 

well at the joints of these vertical pipes. If you notice 
discoloration of the paint at the joints, you may know 
at once that they are connected with some cesspool or 
sewer-piping : e,g, a gentleman had low fever among his 
children, he could not assign £^ny particular cause for it ; 
one of the rain-water pipes, however, ran up the walls of 
his house, within a couple of feet of the nursery windows, 
this pipe was painted stone colour, the paint at and above 
the unstopped joints in this pipe was turned to lead 
colour. The question as to where the water from that 
pipe went to was put to him, and answered by '' nobody 
knows.^^ On examining, it was found (as might have been 
conjectured) to go into an hermetically sealed cesspool. 
Every time rain fell and water went into this cesspool, 
the sewer gas found its way readily through the joints of 
this pipe, and as the nursery windows were kept open as 
much as possible after the rooms were warmed by the 
young life in them, there is very little doubt where the 
source or origin of the enteric fever was lurking. 

As rain-water is valuable, have an underground tank to 
receive it, and an overflow pipe to it, separate from any 
sewer drain. Let the rain-water pass through a small 
filter- chamber, filled with shingle and charcoal, before 
entering the tank : this will take out flakes of soot and 
particles of leaves and vegetable matter, the water will 
then keep better. 

If you wish to know what size to make such a tank 
ascertain how many square yards of ground your roofs 
cover. About one hundred and twenty-six gallons of 
rain-water fall on an average every year upon a square 
yard of ground : a cubic foot of water is equal to about 
6J gallons, you can therefore easily judge what size to 
make your tank. 

Touching upon soil pipes and cesspools in private 

c- 



18 HOUSB-DRAINAOB. 

houses where there are no public drains^ I would say that 
too much care cannot be taken to provide for circulation 
of air in all pipes leading to and from cesspools. Connect 
these pipes with a 4-iQch tube and carry it up higher than 
your chimneys on some stout lofty tree, or on some build- 
ing only a short distance &om the house, if possible, and 
towards the south of the house — ^as such air generally 
works towards the sun — and away from the house, if let 
out south of it. 

For your water-closets you will find a good D trap 
about the best check to any pressure of sewer-gas, as it 
will not be forced through a D trap so easily as through 
some of the modem shallow traps and syphons ; but if 
you happen to have valve-closets, or Ught traps, a lead 
pipe can in most cases be put into the leaden bend and 
carried above the roof; then you will have an essential 
safeguard, e.g., it will be evident to all that when water 
goes down a soil-pipe a certain quantity of air must be 
displaced, this air will rush out into the closet unless am- 
ple provision is made for its escape elsewhere; and as the 
act of a person puUing up a closet handle is first, to stoop, 
which causes him to emit his breath, and then to raise 
himself which causes him to inspire, it will be readily 
noticed that he is sure to take in his breath at the moment 
when the water runs down the soil-pipe and the pent-up 
sewer gas rushes out close to his lungs. Keep the closet 
seat-flap down, cut holes in the flap to admit of the handle 
being raised when the flap is closed ; it will, however, be 
far better to ventilate your soil-pipes and drains. Water- 
closets should be flushed with a large pail-full of water 
now and then, because the small quantity of water com- 
ing in through the supply-pipe into the pan is insuJEcient 
for this purpose, especially when the handle is held up a 
very short time. Jenning^s and XJnderhay^s pans are 



HOUSE-DBAINAOE. 19 

better supplied with water than many, but even with these 
arrangements no sufficient flush takes place to well push 
on the excreta. When these accumulate, ammoniacal 
and other matters are formed and danger springs up, 
but there is not the same danger (if any) from fresh 
sewage. Do not allow slops to be emptied down your 
water-closets because some may be spilt and get between 
the seat and the pan, and gradually saturate the wood- 
work beneath, causing decay and unwholesome faint 
smells. Have a pad of dry hair-felt sewn in an oilskin 
cover placed between the top of the pan and the wooden 
seat if there is any vacant space there; this will stop 
draught and the splash referred to. 

Lime-white with hot lime the floor and inside of the 
seat-enclosure annually ; this can be readily done by tak- 
ing off the top or seat. 

The effectual ventilation of water-closets situated as 
they often are, is by no means an easy matter. If you 
open the window, the warm house will quickly receive the 
smell you intended to go outside, and you will soon per- 
ceive that the air will not obey your commands. Have a 
space (however small) between the inner and outer doors 
of the water-closet; if this space is too confined for a 
window get external air into it by tubes, this stratum o^ 
air will materially assist you, because it tends to balance 
and check the progress of the air in the water-closet be- 
yond ; but the better method is to lead a tube from the 
ceiling of the water-closet into the nearest chimney flue 
where there is smoke ascending, or where there is suffi- 
cient warmth to make it act as you wish; your water- 
closet will then soon be cleared of all disagreeables, a 
valve however, should be balanced in this tube to prevent 
any sudden down draft. 

Some prqvision should be made for disposing of slops 

c2 



20 HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

entirely away from the water-closet. People are little 
aware what odd things are put down water-closets. If 
plumbers told people the queer things they find in 
water-closet pipes they would not be beUeved. Water- 
closets should be strictly guarded^ and domestic servants 
cautioned against misusing them. The same oversight 
should be given to traps in sinks and elsewhere ; these 
traps are often lifted off and not put on again, resulting 
in much damage to the health of the servants and all the 
inmates of the house. Let all pipes from sinks, butler^s 
pantries, baths, &c., discharge themselves free to the air 
before entering sewer drains : this plan can generally be 
carried out without difficulty or unsightliness. 

Have all junctions of water-closet pipes with the drains 
examined now and then, as the stopping often shrinks 
and the lead decays, especially if the stopping is made of 
Portland cement. The seating or fixing of the pan on to 
the soil-pipe should also be examined periodically so as 
to stop any leakage of sewer gas. 

All cisterns should be cleaned out once a year, and any 
deposit removed. If you have a '' waste-pipe^^ in your 
cistern branched into the soil-pipe, which is too fre- 
quently the case, look well to it, for unless your drains 
are sufficiently ventilated, the sewer gas will be forced 
through the waste-pipe and may be absorbed by the water 
in your cistern. If you have a painted lid to your cistern 
see if any discolouration has taken place ; if you find such 
to be the case you may be sure that sewer gas has es- 
caped into your cistern. 

If you have drains from your basements and cellars be 
particularly careful to see that the traps are efficient and 
kept well supplied with water ; the great importance of 
having this seen to is self-evident. Where do you sup- 
pose the supply of air to your sitting-rooms is frequently 



HOUSB-PBAINAGE. 21 

drawn from ? if they happen to be over rooms or cellars 
with plastered ceilings, air will percolate from these into 
your sitting-rooms. You can prove this by blowing a 
cloud of tobacco-smoke below; or you may find it out 
accidentally through something being spilt, such as 
paraffin oil for instance. Have your cellars frequently 
Umewhited and the floors cleaned. 

I will only slightly touch upon wells and drinking- 
water because it is impossible to exhaust such an impor- 
tant and interesting subject in a letter, but I do wish to 
observe, that every householder should know exactly where 
his well is situated, if he has one. 

People are little aware how soon drinking water is 
spoilt by a small leakage of surface-water, or drain-water 
into it, e,g,y an additional drain is thought desirable, an 
ordinary bricklayer is sent for, who puts it in for you, not 
knowing that your well is in close proximity to it, or if he 
knows its situation you are not informed of it ; the conse- 
quence may be and often is most disastrous. Cases such 
as this are common through persons hiring houses (on a 
lease for instance) and who like to see the premises dry 
quickly after rain ; they do not know and do not trouble 
tibemselves to ascertain where their wells are ; but have 
extra drains put in without thought; their drinking water 
is spoilt ; the sequel is too certain and the evil often only 
found out when too late. 

To effectually deal with the sewage of large towns so as 
to remove, and actually to convey away noxious matters 
from our very midst without the use of the present water 
system is a great difficulty, and the prospect of any radi-* 
cal change of the present system in London, for instance, 
seems an impossibility, on account of the gigantic net- 
work of sewers already provided and in use. 

Nevertheless, I will proceed to mention a few grave ob- 



22 HOUSE-DRAINAGE. 

jections with the hope of an ameKoration of some of them, 
by better attention to details in respect to the more effi- 
cient ventilation of sewers and the prevention of the in- 
gress of evil-smelling, if not of poisonous, gases into onr 
houses. The worst form of sewer-gas is generally formed 
and found in the side drains, or branches, which are led up 
to our houses, and the contents of these are all but stag- 
nant when the main sewers are filling. Eemove, there- 
fore, where possible, all inlets into the drains leading to 
the sewers from the interior of your houses. But it may 
be said that in the majority of cases this cannot be done 
without destroying the drainage altogether ; the answer 
is, such cases are, comparatively speaking, few. Take 
drains from cellars for instance, how seldom they are of real 
service compared with the great danger of their presence. 
Cellars can be cleaned down without necessitating a trap 
and drain into the sewer. Deal with the cleansing of a 
cellar- floor the same as is done with a boarded floor, by 
wiping up the water and drying the floor as well as may 

be. 

Asphalte is very good for cellar floors, a ad very cleanly. 
Nasty traps in your cellars and basement, containing in 
themselves a quantity of stagnant dirty water communi- 
cating with the sewer, the gas in which can easily be 
forced into your house, is a grave form of evil. To cure 
this source of disease, simply dispense with the traps and 
drains and wipe your floors clean. By some thought and 
<K)ntrivance it will be found that very many connections 
with the sewers can be avoided. 

* Waste pipes, again, in cisterns connected with the soil- 
pipe and sewer should be dispensed with, and means to 
prevent occasional overflows of water when the badly 
fitting common ball-taps stick, should be provided for in 
another direction. Waste-pipes in cisterns connected with 



H0U8E-DBAINA0E. 23 

sewer drains are oat-spoken examples of the stupidity^ 
which^ with an utter disregard to sanitary laws^ persists 
in such suicidal arrangements. Surely there is great in- 
consistency in raising alarms about the impurity of Lon- 
don water^ whilst at the same time it is not unfrequently 
contaminated with a poison through the waste pipes in 
cisterns which no filter can remove. Where connection 
with the sewers is actually necessary (as in water-closets) 
ventilate the soil-pipe by a vertical continuation of it to 
such a height as circumstances will permit. 

Water-closets uhould not be in the midst of our houses 
at all, but projected outwards with a lobby or anteroom, 
as before alluded to ; but it is quite surprising how few 
junctions with the sewer drains in houses are absolutely 
necessary. Every internal junction dispensed with is a 
step in the right direction ; get all connections, where pos- 
sible, outside your houses, because sewer-gas forced out in- 
to the open air is soon robbed of its noxious powers, but 
its escape into the interior of your house is as bad as a 
murderer entering it. A very sly insidious felon is sewer- 
gas ! 

The dry earth system is most excellent and effective, 
but the cost of bringing dry earth round and removing 
that used in populous places would be heavy, and the in- 
trusion and inconvenience apparently great; time how- 
ever will show whether this system cannot be developed 
without such drawbacks. Moule^s dry-earth system is 
most in use. Goux^s absorbent closet system is equally 
effective, having been tried and adopted for the North 
camp at Aldershot, and even in so large a town as Hali- 
fax. 

Dry earth commodes, also, for sick chambers are very 
useful. 

As compared with the water-closet system, the earth 



24 HOnSE-DRAINAOE. 

closet has several advantages. It is cheaper in its original 
cost, it requires less repair, it is not injured by frost, it 
is not liable to damage through hard substances being 
thrown into it, it greatly diminishes the quantity of water 
required by each household. My own experience is in 
favour of the earth system, if carried out under proper 
authorities. It is deserving of every consideration, but its 
merits at present are not suflSiciently understood by the 
public to interfere much with the poisoned water system. 
Formidable sums of money are being spent in draining 
towns so as to lay on sewer-gas by means of pipes to our 
very bedroom doors. Is this right ? Will not the water 
system be superseded ? 

Cleanliness, after all, is the great natural disinfectant ; 
look well, therefore, to all sources of water-supply, impure 
water-butts, sinks, and particularly dust-bins ; remove 
frequently all possible sources of nuisance and accumula- 
tions of impurities ; also, last but not least, get rid of any 
damp mouldy paper-hangings and the festering paste be- 
hind them, if you have any such sources of fever on your 
premises. 

There is an important lesson to be learnt by all of us. 
Every householder should make himself acquainted with 
so much of sanitary science as will enable him to preserve 
the health of his family. To secure health, sanitary laws 
must be understood and carried out. A family cut down 
by preventable sickness cannot be considered a fortunate 
one, and it is just as necessary to learn something of sani- 
tary laws to provide against this, as it is to provide the 
common necessaries of life. 



CLOTHING. 25 



CLOTHING. 



In winter, the body and limbs, from the root of the 
neck to the toes and elbows, should be covered, next the 
skin, with some woollen material, such as lamb's wool or 
flannel. 

In summer, the material may be lighter, as merino, 
and need not cover the limbs. 

The same woollen dress should not be worn both 
night and day, but should be changed for a woollen sleep- 
ing vest of the same material as that worn during the day. 
(See Sleep). 

Having provided that the skin is so covered that 
it is protected against sudden changes of temperature, 
all other clothing should be limited to that which is 
sufficient to preserve a comfortable feeling of warmth 
under the different changes of the season and of the 
weather. 

Over-clothing, i.e., such as keeps the body perspiring 
while at rest or produces perspiration under very slight 
exertion, should be avoided, especially over-clothing of 
any one part of the body by which it is kept hotter than 
the other parts. 

It is of the greatest importance to keep the feet 
dry and as warm as the rest of the body. If the weather 
is damp, this can only be done by wearing goloshes when 
out of doors. (See Bathing). 

A careful analysis, made by me, of a large number of 
cases of Winter Cough, Catarrh, Bronchitis, Emphysema, 
Asthma, showed that fresh colds were the only causes which 
brought on or aggravated the cough in 72 per cent, of the 
cases, and the most frequent and potent causes of these 
fresh colds, as stated by the patients themselves, were : — 



26 CLOTHINQ. 

1. Sudden changes of temperature in 21 per cent. 

2. Fogs and damp air in 19 per cent. 

3. Draughts of cold air in 16 per cent. 

4. Cold winds in 10 per cent. 

5. Getting wet in 14 per cent. 

6. Wet feet in 17 per cent. And the same list of causes 
of fresh colds were found to be the potent provokers of 
short breathing. This important list is no less striking 
for the powers for evil which it is shown to possess, than 
for the remarkable simplicity of the evil powers them- 
selves. 

If, then, these unfortunate sufferers from Winter Oough 
could have been protected from sudden changes of tem- 
perature, fogs, mists, cold winds, draughts, wet feet, and 
wet coats and dresses, 72 per cent, would have kept free 
from theii' coughs. It would seem strange if we could 
not find means of protection against such common-place 
influences. In truth, there is no deficiency of means of 
protection against them, and it is because of the very 
common-place character of these means of protection and 
of the influences themselves that both are so much neg- 
lected and under-valued. 

But 72 per cent, of the cases of Winter Cough which I 
analysed might probably have been prevented by atten- 
tion to these common-place things. Let us then give 
a few minutes to their consideration. 

1. Sudden changes of temperature. This is the most 
difficult to avoid of any on the list. The occupations and 
amusements of all classes involve such changes, and we 
cannot stop these occupations and amusements, even were 
it desirable to do so. The workshop, the counting house, 
the committee-room, the opera-house, the ball-room, must 
be warm when the outer air is cold, and changes from one 
to the other cannot be avoided. But very much can be 



CLOTHING. 27 

done to prevent the body from feeling these changes. 
The first and most important is the complete envelopment 
of the body tod limbs in wool next the skin, thus inter- 
posing a bad conductor of heat between the surface of the 
body and the outer air. It is surprising that, even at the 
present day, this simple and common-sense protection is 
neglected by so large a number of persons both of the 
educated and of the uneducated classes. It is not suffi- 
cient for the purpose in view that a little body- vest should 
be worn just big enough to cover the thorax and abdomen, 
leaving the extremities unprotected. It should be insisted 
on by medical men that the arms and legs require to be 
protected from sudden transitions of temperature as well 
as the trunk. 

In fashionable life the greatest practical difficulty we 
have to encounter is the question of exposing the necks 
and shoulders of ladies in evening dress. It is useless to 
order body-clothing of wool to the throaty and to expect 
that ladies will give up a fashion which has been followed 
and thought charming in all countries and all ages. The 
difficulty is however, to be got over pretty well. Every 
lady in evening dress should carry with her, as invariably 
as she does her pocket handkerchief, a Shetland shawl or 
a mantilla of wool or fur, of a size and shape to cover all 
those parts not protected by woollen underclothing, and it 
should only be removed while actually within warm rooms 
and should be kept at hand to be replaced on passing 
through passages, or if the rooms become cold, or if 
sitting in draughts. 

The main source of protection, then, against sudden 
changes of temperature to the surface of the body, is to be 
found in a complete covering of wool next the skin. But 
besides this, much greater attention, than is common, 
should be paid to putting on and taking off complete and 



28 CLOTHING. 

eflBcient over-cIothing when going from hot to cold and 
from cold to hot temperatures. This is particularly neg- 
lected by the working classes and by girls and boys at 
school. 

What I have said with regard to sudden changes 
of temperature will apply equally to two other causes 
of fresh colds on our list, viz., draughts of cold air, and 
cold winds. Both are to be deprived of their sting by 
proper clothing of the skin and mucous orifices. 

Getting wet, and wet feet occupy a very serious place 
in our list, and there is no doubt that damp and cold 
applied to the general surface is a most efficient means 
of producing chill and vital depression, with congestion of 
the internal organs. It is necessary that cold be com- 
bined with moisture to produce this effect. 

Even if all the clothes on the body are wet, no harm 
will come so long as they are kept warm, and this sug- 
gests the very great value, to all persons liable to ex- 
posure to wet, of light waterproof over-alls. They may 
either be put on to keep the underclothing dry, or, if 
the underclothing has become wet, either by weather or 
by perspiration, they may be put on to prevent too rapid 
evaporation and consequent reduction of temperature, 
especially when the person is about to remain still after 
getting warm with exercise. In this variable climate, 
therefore, school girls, governesses, shop and factory girls, 
and all women whose occupations call upon them to brave 
the weather, ought to carry with them complete water- 
proof mantles made as light as possible, but extending 
from the neck to the ankles, which can be put on or 
not as required; and boys and men similarly exposed 
should carry waterproof over-alls. 

But if wet and cold to the surface of the body is a 
fruitful source of catarrh, wet feet — which means wet and 



CLOTHING. 29 

cold feet — ^is a still more prolific source. There is no 
external influence which so surely produces congestion of 
the naso-pulmonary mucous membrane^ as wet and cold to 
the soles of the feet. There is nothing so universally 
neglected, and yet there is nothing more easy to avoid. 
Warm socks, horsehair soles, goloshes, provide efficient 
protection against wet and cold feet. It does not seem 
to be half understood that, although a shoe or boot may 
not be wet through, if the sole is damp it will, by con- 
duction and evaporation, most effectually carry away the 
heat from the sole of the foot, and, therefore, ought never 
to be worn after exercise is over. 

We have still one item left on our list — ^viz.. Fogs and 
Damp air, which were the things most inclined to make 
the breath short in 24 per cent, of the cases, and the most 
potent causes of fresh colds in 19 per cent. I have par- 
ticularly remarked, that although the smoke and other 
irritating matters constituting fog are unquestionably very 
injurious, it is the moisture and cold of the fog which are 
the qualities most potent for mischief to the naso-pulmon- 
ary tract. There is but one means of depriving a fog or 
mist of its injurious properties, and that is a respirator ; 
and the same may be said of the changes of temperature 
of which I spoke just now ; a respirator is the only means 
of protecting the respiratory passages from the effects of 
transitions of temperature. 

Although it is quite proper to cover the neck and throat 
lightly, I am decidedly of opinion that warm wrappers 
round the neck are objectionable ; they produce conges- 
tion of the nasal and faucial mucous membrane and thus 
dispose to the very complants they are supposed to pre- 
vent. ' (See the Author^s "Lectures on Winter Gough^ 
Catarrh, Bronchitis, Emphysema, Asthma," delivered at 
the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest, 3rd edit. 
Cfmrchill), 



30 SLEEP. 

I am glad to find the use of respirators, wHch I have so 
long advocated, recently demonstrated in one of Professor 
Tyndall^s beautiful lectures. (See appendix III.) 



SLEEP. - 

During ordinary health, the hours spent in actual 
sleep should not exceed eight ; and if the sleep is sound, 
continuous and refreslxing, six wiU be sufficient for many 
persons. (See Eest and Change). It is of great impor- 
tance, especially with the young and the weak, to main- 
tain the due proportion between the number of waking 
and sleeping hours. If, therefore, it is necessary, as in 
going to places of amusement, to sit up unusually late, 
the waking hours, thus spent, should be compensated by 
a similar number of sleeping hours, taken in the preceding 
day; so that over-fatigue may be prevented. For ex- 
ample, if the usual hour for rising is 8 and for bed 11 and 
it is proposed to stay up till 3, the hour for rising should 
be changed to 12 j or 4 hours rest should be taken at 
some other time during the day. 

During sleep, it is equally important to keep the 
body pleasantly warm, and to avoid keeping it over- 
heated; and, as serious changes in the weather may 
happen in the night, and the lowest temperature in the 
twenty-four hours naturally occurs between 2 o^clock and 
6 o^clock a.m., the ventilation and clothing must be pre- 
pared for these contingencies. (See Yentilation, and 
Clothing). 

If sleep is taken after meals, it should not exceed 
half an hour in duration ; it should be taken sitting back 



EXESCISB. 31 

in an easy chair^ with the head supported behind ; not 
lying down, and not sitting with the chin resting on the 
breast ; the feet should be kept warm, and the dress loose 
ronnd the neck and waist. 

Every precaution should be taken to secure quiet 
sleeping-rooms. 



EXEBOISE. 

During ordinary health, some part of every day ought 
to be spent out of doors; and in ill-health it is of 
great importance not to discontinue the observance of this 
rule without good reason ; for, although in certain states of 
disease it may be very important to remain in-doors, it must 
not be forgotten that proper clothing, goloshes, respira- 
tors, and unbrellas, may make it not only safe but advan- 
tageous to go out of doors for exercise, when, without 
them, it would be very injurious. (See Posture). 

Out-of-door exercise should be as active as the strength 
will allow, and should always be continued up to the 
point of slight — ^but not over — ^fatigue. This will be the 
best measure of the proper amount for both the weak and 
the strong. 

Unless the air is pure, and the person strong, 
exercise before breakfast is more likely to do harm than 
good; a tumbler of milk and a biscuit, however, will 
be a sufficient meal to take before the walk or ride — a 
more substantial breakfast being taken afterwards. (See 
Meals). 

Especial care is needed not to expose the body to 
chills when heated by exercise ; and cold drinks should 



82 EXERCISE. 

not be taken at that time, unless the exercise is about to 
be continued immediately; and even then the quantity of 
cold drink taken at once should be very small. (See 
Meals). 

In his work *' on Physical Education/^ already referred 
to, Mr. Maclaren makes the following excellent remarks : 

" Such in brief is Exercise, such the ends which it 
accomplishes, and such the manner of their accomplish- 
ment ; viz. the destruction of the tissues, the hastening of 
the decay and death of every part coming within its in- 
fluence; but also the speedy removal of all waste, the 
hastening forward of fresh material for its replacement ; 
and in doing this it attains three distinct but co-relative 
results. 

^^1. It increases the size and power of the voluntary 
muscles employed. 

'^ 2. It increases the fdnctional capacity of the involun- 
tary muscles employed. 

'^ 3. It promotes the health and strength of the whole 
body, by increasing respiration and quickening circula- 
tion.^^ 

'^It is health rather than strength that is the great 
requirement of modem men at modem occupations; it is 
not the power to travel great distances, carry great bur- 
dens, lift great weights, or overcome great material ob- 
structions ; it is simply that condition of body and that 
amount of vital capacity, which will enable each man 
in his place to pursue his calling, and work on in his 
working life, with the greatest amount of comfort to 

himself and usefulness to his fellow men Let it not be 

inferred from this that I consider health and strength as 
in any manner opposed to each other, on the contrary, 
they are most intimately allied and are, usually, by the 



POSTUBE. 33 

same means and by the same manner obtained ; very 
closely are they connected but they are not the same, and 

a man may possess either without the other/^ A 

most important principle in Exercise, and one which 
should ever be borne in mind, is, that it should be regu- 
lated by individual fitness ; for the exercise that scarcely 
amounts to exertion in one person will be injurious and 
dangerous to another, and not only is this inequality 
observable among different individuals, but, the same 
individual may have parts of his body possessing special 
power or presenting special weakness. A man may have 
limbs capable of transporting him at the rate of four miles 
an hour throughout the day, and for many days in succes- 
sion, but with heart or lungs all unequal to the efibrt. Or 
he may have an organization so frail and a temperament 
so susceptible to stimulation or excitement, that the one is 
an abiding danger to the other J' 

When there is no heart or lung disease to interfere, 
there is no form of gymnastic exercise, so generally eflB- 
cient as " skipping backwards/' 



POSTURE. 



It is of great importance to acquire a habit of 
drawing the breath deeply and slowly, so as to expand 
the lungs freely during ordinary breathing. This re- 
quires that the head and shoulders be thrown well back 
in walking, sitting, and standing, and that no clothing be 
worn tight round the ribs. Those engaged in sedentary 
or stooping occupations should especially attend to this 
advice.* 

* See Appendix Y. "On the importance and dangers of Best in Con- 
sumption." 

D 



34 BATHING, 

Those whose occnpation obliges them to maintain the 
erect posture for a number of hours each day, should 
take every opportunity of lying flat down, even if only for 
A few minutes at a time. They should also bear in mind 
that standing will not take the place of walking exercise. 
(See Exercise). 

All persons whose pursuits require the long continu- 
ance or frequent assumption of any particular position or 
movement of the body or limbs, should take every op- 
portunity of changing it for an opposite position or move- 
ment. (See Rest and Change, and Sleep).* 



BATHING. 

Warm baths, Turkish baths, vapour baths, shower baths, 
and cold plunges, should only be used under special medi- 
cal orders. 

During ordinary health, the skin of the body and 
limbs should be smartly rubbed, once in twenty-four 
hours, first with a rough towel wet with cold water, and 
then with a dry one till in a glow. The bather should 
stand on a dry rug while using this " cold friction bath/^ 
and it should not last more than one or two minutes, in- 
cluding both the wet and the dry rub. Salt may be ad- 
vantageously added to the water ; and the bath may be 
used either on rising or going to bed, according to the 
feelings and convenience of each individual. When water 
cannot be borne cold, it must not be used tepid, but very 
hot. — The momentary application of very hot water to the 

* For " Gymnastics" see Mr. Maolaren's ** System of Physical Educa- 
tion," already quoted. For effects of unhealthy posture, see Mr. Heather 
Bigg's "Orthopraxy^' 



REGULATION OP THE BOWELS. 35 

dkin, immediately followed by a brisk friction, will pro- 
duce a direct-action glow nearly approaching the re-action 
glow following the application of cold. 

If the weather is very cold or the person delicate 
and chilly, the upper half of the body should be un- 
covered and rubbed first, and then a woollen vest should 
be put on and the lower half uncovered and rubbed. 

It is well to accustom the feet to being washed in 
cold water, but it must be done cautiously at first, and 
they should never be kept in the water more than a few 
seconds. 

It is obvious, that there are times when cold bath- 
ing of all kinds must be temporarily discontinued. 



REGULATION OF THE BOWELS. 

As a general rule, the bowels ought to act, at some 
stated time, once in the twenty-four hours; and it is 
best to accustom them to act in the morning, after break- 
fast. 

If they do not act spontaneously, they should be 
assisted by some wholesome article of diet which is found 
to afiect them ; or by some harmless aperient medicine, 
which must be prescribed by a medical man, to suit the 
particular case ; for the best aperient for one person may 
be the worst for another. 

Provided that an aperient medicine is suited to the 
case, contains no drug injurious to the general health, and 
is not taken oftener than every second night, there is no 
harm in taking it at bedtime, whenever the bowels have 
not acted satisfactorily during the day. 

d2 



86 SMOKING. 



BEST AND CHANGE. 

Active life is essential to the health of body and 
mind ; but both require periods of rest, in addition to the 
regular hours of sleep. It is much better, therefore, to 
work vigorously for a time and then to rest, than to keep 
up a monotonous round of lifeless drudgery. (See Sleep, 
and Exercise). 

The '^ current of the thoughts^^ is to the mind what 
posture is to the body ; and both require change to pre- 
vent weariness and deformity. (See Posture). 

Rest of body or mind may be obtained either by 
abstaining from all bodily or mental exercise, or by change 
of occupation, and as the one gives entire rest and the 
other only partial rest, it is best to adopt each of these 
measures at different times. 

It must be remembered, that as the mind acts by 
means of the brain, which is a part of the body, it cannot 
act healthfully while the body is suffering under disease or 
exhaustion. The " gai^' of the mind is affected by the 
condition of the brain j as much as the '^ gai^^ of the body 
is affected by the condition of the limbs. 



SMOKING. 

A certain number of persons have a peculiar susceptibil- 
ity to the poisonous influence of Tobacco, and they should 
never touch it. But for the majority of adults a moderate 
amount of smoking does not appear to have any seriously 
deleterious influence, and in many it acts as a useful anti- 
dote to brain- worry. 



SMOKIKQ. 37 

A carefal and extended examination of the influence of 
Tobacco on tlie health of individuals and communities^ 
gave the following results. (Sodal Science Review, July 
11, 1863;. 

^^ 1. The effects that result from smoking are due to 
different agents imbibed by the smoker : viz., carbonic 
acid, ammonia, nicotine, a volatile empyreumatic sub- 
stance, and a bitter extract. The more common effects 
are traceable to the carbonic acid and ammonia ; the rarer 
and more severe to the nicotine, the empyreumatic sub- 
stance, and the extract. 

" 2. The effects produced are very transitory, the poi- 
sons finding a ready exit from the body. 

'^ 3. All the evils of smoking are functional in character, 
and no confirmed smoker can ever be said, so long as he 
indulges in the habit, to be well ; it does not follow, how- 
ever, that he is becoming the subject of organic and fatal 
disease because he smokes. 

'^4. Smoking produces disturbances: — (a) In the blood, 
causing undue fluidity, and change in the red corpuscles : 
(6.) on the stomach, giving rise to debility, nausea, and 
in extreme cases, sickness : (c) on the heart, producing 
debility of that organ, and irregular action : (rf) on the 
organs of sense, causing in the extreme degree dilatation 
of the pupils of the eye, confusion of vision, bright lines, 
luminous specks, and long retention of images on the 
retina ; with other and analogous symptoms affecting the 
ear, viz., inability clearly to define sounds, and the annoy- 
ance of a sharp ringing sound like a whistle or a bell : 
(e) on the brain, suspending the waste of that organ, and 
oppi'essing it if it be duly nourished, but soothing it if it 
be exhausted : (/) on the nervous filaments and sympathe- 
tic or organic nerves, leading to deficient power in them, 
and to over secretion in those surfaces — glands — over 



38 SMOKING. 

which the nerves exert a controlling force: (g) on the 
mucous membrane of the mouthy causing enlargement and 
soreness of the tonsils — smoker^s sore throat — redness, 
dryness, and occasional peeling off of the membrane, and 
either unnatural firmness and contraction, or sponginess of 
the gums: {h) on the bronchial subfacb of the lungs when 
that is already irritable, sustaining the irritation, and in- 
creasing the cough. 

"5. The statements to the effect that tobacco smoke 
causes specific diseases, such as insanity, epilepsy, St. 
Vitus^ dance, apoplexy, organic disease of the heart, cancer 
and consumption, have been made without any suflicient 
evidence or reference to facts; all such statements are 
devoid of truth, and can never accomplish the object which 
those who propose them have in view. 

" 6. As the human body is maintained alive and in full 
vigour by its capacity, within certain well-defined limits, 
to absorb and apply oxygen ; as the process of oxydation 
is most active and most required in those periods of life 
when the structures of the body are attaining their full 
development ; and as tobacco smoke possesses the power 
of arresting such oxydation, the habit of smoking is most 
deleterious to the young, causing in them impairment of 
growth, premature manhood, and physical degradation. . . . 
, , , " Taking it all in all, stripping from the argument the 
puerilities and exaggerations of those who claim to be the 
professed antagonists of the practice, it is fair to say, that, 
in the main, smoking is a luxury which any nation, of 
natural habits, would be better without. The luxury is 
not directly fatal to life, but its use conveys to the mind 
of the man who looks upon it calmly, the unmistakeable 
idea, of physical degradation. I do not hesitate to say 
that if a community of youths of both sexes, whose pro- 
genitors were finely formed and powerful, were to be 



MEALS. 39 

trained to the early practice of smoking, and if marriage 
were to be confined to the smokers, an apparently new 
and a physically inferior race of men and women would be 
bred up. Of course such an experiment is impossible as 
we live: for many of our fathers do not smoke, and 
scarcely any of our mothers, and thus, to the credit of 
our women, chiefly, bo it said, the integrity of the race 
is fairly preserved: with increasing knowledge we may 
hope that the same integrity will be further sustained: but 
still, the fact of what tobacco can do in its extreme action 
is not the less to be forgotten, for many evils are main- 
tained because their full alid worst effects are hidden from 

the sight 

"If I were equally fair for tobacco as against it, I 
should be forced to give it a place as one of the least 
hurtful of luxuries. It is on this ground, in fact, that 
tobacco holds so firm a position : — that of nearly every 
luxury it is the least injurious.^' 



MEALS. 



Counting from the time of beginning one meal to that 
of beginniug the next, food should be taken at regular 
intervals of from four to five hours ; except the interval 
between dinnqr and a very slight tea, which may be re- 
duced to two or three hours. In weakly persons, and 
when the appetite will allow only a very small meal to be 
taken at one time, the intervals between all the meals 
may be reduced to from three to four hours. In illness, 
the interval must be ordered day by day by the medical 
man. 

The chief meal of the day — the full meal— by what- 



40 MEALS, 

ever name it is called^ should be taken at whatever hour 
active occupation^ both bodily and mental^ can be sus- 
pended for about two hours; provided always that not 
less than two hours elapse between the conclusion of the 
full meal and bedtime. 

Breakfast should be the second best meal of the day^ 
and should be taken leisurely immediately after rising in 
the morning. (See Exercise) . 

The other meals should be taken punctually at the fixed 
hours^ but should be only light refreshments^ and small 
in bulk. 

No food should be taken in the intervals between the 
regular meals. 

As a general rule, pure water may be taken at any 
time, if indicated by thirst, so that the body is not heated 
by exercise, and the quantity drunk at once does not ex- 
ceed a quarter of a pint. (See Exercise). 

Spirituous liquors should not be taken the first thing 
in the morning or the last thing at night, without medi- 
cal orders, they should not be taken when the stomach 
is empty, and they should not be drunk stronger than in 
the proportion of one ounce avoirdupois of absolute alco- 
hol in about ten fluid ounces of liquid. (See Alcohol 
Table.) 

One of the principal sources of mischief in the use of 
alcoholic liquors is the practice of taking them to quench 
thirst in the place of unfermented drinks. The serise of 
thirst 18 a call from the organism for water, not for alcohol. 
Let the alcohol be taken as food, as medicine, or as a 
luxury, but not to quench thirst in the place of those un- 
fermented liquors which are essential to health as diluents 
and solvents. (See Alcohol Table ; Eemarks on Alcohol 
in " Preliminary Eemarks ;^^ Chapter VI.; and Appen- 
dix). 



PBOPEB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 41 

Alcohol Fasts. — Those who habitually take alcohol 
daily, should abstain from it entirely for a few days twice 
or thrice a year. 



PEOPEE HOURS FOE MEALS. 

Svhstance of a letter by the Author addressed to employers 
of labour y and printed for private circulation, 1852. 

That animal life cannot go on in even 

passable health and comfort without sufficient food and 
effectual digestion, is a fact perfectly familiar to all ; yet, 
unhappily, among those who live an in-door life, effectual 
digestion is scarcely ever knovni. They constitute the 
bulk of that enormous number of persons who suffer from 
what is popularly known as " indigestion.^' 

Now, there can be no question that they are pre-dis- 
posed to this class of diseases by many circumstances, 
quite inseparable from their occupations. But that makes 
it the more desirable to avoid all those causes of disease 
which are not necessary to their pursuits. 

1 Bjn not speaidng of Skiij particular form 

of indigestion, but in a general and broad sense, of all 
those various maladies classed under the popular term. 

The choice of the hours at which clerks, shopmen, me- 
chanics, labourers, and other business- servants of both 
sexes take their meals, depends almost entirely upon the 
decision of their superiors. 

If these hours are not well chosen, indigestion, in some 
form, is the certain consequence sooner or later. And 
it will be seen from the few plain facts which I shall de- 
tail, that the notions which have long prevailed as to the 
proper hours for taking food, and consequently the regu- 



42 PfiOPBB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 

lations of nearly all business establishments^ in this re- 
spect, are inconsistent with the conditions which physio- 
logy teaches us to be essential to healthy digestion, with 
the requirements of the various occupations by which 
servants gain their livelihood, and with the conventional 
arrangements of society in the present day. 

I shall hope, by avoiding all technicalities and minute 
physiological details, and by employing the plainest popu- 
lar terms, to make my meaning perfectly intelligible to 
the unprofessional, to whom, in this instance, it is neces- 
sary to address my remarks ; and I now ask particular 
attention to the following statement of the conditions ne- 
cessary to healthy digestion. 

1. Food of appropriate quality and bulk. 

2. In the case of a full meal, — ^rest of body and tran- 
quility of mind for a short time previous to taking food, 
and for at least an hour afterwards. In the case of a light 
meal, — gentle exercise, and moderate mental activity may 
be allowed with impunity. 

3. Effectual mastication, by which the alimentary mat- 
ter is completely disintegrated and saturated with saliva, 
and the meal taken slowly. 

4. A sufficient interval between any two meals, to allow 
the first to have been digested and removed from the sto- 
mach, long enough for the digestive functions to regain 
their full vigour, before the second is introduced. The 
period which should intervene will depend upon the rapid- 
ity of digestion, which may vary according to the quantity 
eaten, the state of the health, the nature and amount of 
the previous exercise, the condition of the mind, and 
many other circumstances. 

5. Caution that the stomach is not left empty long 
enough for the system to become exhausted, and the di- 
gestive powers thereby weakened. 



FBOFEB HOUBS FOB MEALS. 43 

6. Strict adherence to the same hours for taking food, 
that the stomach may acquire a habit of preparing for its 
reception. 

7. An interval between the last meal and bedtime, suffi- 
cient to allow the work of digestion to be concluded be- 
fore lying down to sleep. 

Many other conditions might be mentioned, but as the 
few main points already stated are enough for our present 
purpose, I shall confine myself to them. 

The circumstances under which the majority of those 
persons are placed, whose health we are principally con- 
sidering, must now be reviewed, in order to compare them 
with the conditions essential to healthy digestion, and to 
draw the necessary conclusions as to the pbopeb houbs foe 

MEALS. 

From the factory artisan up to the banker^s or mer- 
chant's clerk, several important circumstances are com- 
mon to all. 

1. The day is devoted to labour either of the body or of 
the mind, or of both. 

2. Business must be continued unremittingly up to the 
moment of leaving for meals, and resumed immediately 
on returning from them. 

3. The time which can be spared for meals during busi- 
ness hours, must necessarily be very limited. 

4. Some portion of this short time must be occupied in 
repairing to, and returning from the refreshment place. 

In many instances, especially in retail trades, the nature 
of the business renders it impossible to keep to fixed 
times for those meals taken during working hours. 

The fact of taking time for meals out of the middle of 
the day, necessarily makes it later in the evening before 
the business can be finished ; and this not only to the 
extent of the time during which work is actually stopped; 



44 FBOFIB HOURS FOB MEALS. 

for we all know how much the progress of business is 
interrupted by Ihe simple acts of discontinuing and recom- 
mencing it, more especially when books and calculations 
are concerned. The effects of these combined circum- 
stances may be viewed daily by visiting the public dining 
rooms attended by clerks, the lodgings of labourers at 
their dinner hour, and the offices and factories before and 
after meal-time — dinner-time more particularly, and din- 
ner being the principal meal in the day — the full meal — ^it 
is of it that I shall chiefly speak. 

Twelve, one and two o'clock seem to be the national 
dining hours for the working classes, and sixty minutes 
the maximum time allowed from business for this chief 
meal. The hour having arrived, books or tools are hastily 
laid aside, and the dining place is reached by a sharp 
walk, which adds to the bodily fatigue of the labourer, 
and is not long enough or sufficiently leisurely to rest the 
brain of the accountant. The dinner must be despatched 
hurriedly, or there will not be time for the artizan to 
smoke his pipe, or for the clerk to glance at The Times ; 
or perhaps the reading and eating are carried on at once. 
Mastication is carelessly performed, the mind is kept 
occupied, and the stomach rapidly loaded with food before 
it has had time to make ready for it ; and, in some cases 
a larger quantity is taken than the stomach has power to 
dispose of, simply because it is introduced too expedi- 
tiously for the system to become acquainted, as it were, 
that the supply of its wants is being effected. The meal 
finished, and the paper glanced at, or the pipe smoked, 
the sharp walk must be repeated, now with a full stomach, 
and business resumed before digestion has had time even 
to commence : and at this period, when the organic ener- 
gies ought to be all concentrated about the stomach, they 
are at once summoned to the brain or to the muscular 



FBOPBB HOURS FOB MEALS. 45 

system. Consequently, the meal remains imperfectly di- 
gested, or not digested at all, lingers in the stomach 
beyond its proper time, and is finally expelled in an un- 
natural condition, unfitted to undergo the important 
changes necessary before it can be appropriated for 
healthy nutrition. In all probability the next meal is 
introduced before the former one has entirely left the 
stomach, and thus the mischief is increased. Compar- 
ing the circumstances, here briefly enumerated, with 
those essential to healthy digestion, laid down before, 
the antagonism, so evident between them, plainly shows 
that ^^ Dyspepsia,^^ or difficult digestion, is only the natur- 
al consequence of so persistent a disregard of the laws of 
health. 

I am aware that different businesses do, from their na- 
ture, present various obstacles in the way of carrying out 
such sanitary measures as are most desirable, and that 
one set of rules will not always be practicable in two 
establishments. Therefore, I should advise that the few 
principal conditions of healthy digestion before mentioned 
be carefully borne in mind ; and that in each establish- 
ment the hours for meals be so selected, that these con- 
ditions and the calls of business may be arranged in 
unison with each other. 

For a considerable period of time, during which my 
attention has been more particularly directed to this 
subject, I have made extensive inquiries on points con- 
nected with it, among employers and their servants, and 
have also had sufficient opportunities of enforcing the 
better regulation of meals upon both classes, with effects 
so decidedly beneficial, that I can with confidence impress 
the importance of the alterations I propose, and I am 
convinced of their general practicability. After this 
experience and a mature consideration of the subject 



46 PROPER HOURS FOR HEALS. 

scientifically^ I beg leave to call attention to those re- 
gulations^ wluch appear to me to afford the nearest ap- 
proach to the healthy standard that can be practicably 
arranged to meet the necessary obligations of business 
establishments in general.* 

Let me assume that a substantial breakfast has been 
taken soon after risings and a short space of time allowed 
to elapse between the meal and the commencement of 
active business : — (in those cases where the hour for busi- 
ness is very early, the breakfast should be divided, the 
fast being broken by a light fluid meal, and a second 
light meal taken some hours after). But to return to the 
better plan. Breakfast having been taken, and the day's 
employment commenced, the arrangements are now under 
the direction of the employer. From this moment until 
labour, whether mental or bodily , has ceased, no YVLL-medl 
should- be allowed. This is to be considered the first 
GOLDEN RULE. The SECOND is not Icss imj)ortant — that 
some light refection should be taken punctually every four 
or five hours. By adhering to the first rule, the system 
will never be charged with the task of active digestion at 
times when it is amply engaged in other functions ; the 
digestive organs will not be injured by being called upon 
to undertake what they cannot properly perform ; while 
the servant will not suffer from that oppressive languor 
and inertia, so unavoidable after a full meal, and will be 
so much the better fitted for his duties. By the second 
rule the system is maintained in a state of energy; the 
light refreshment, being easily digested during bodily 
or mental activity, supports the strength much more than 
a full but ill-digested and unassimilated meal can possibly 
do, and leaves the stomach itself unwearied, in a state of 

• This was written twenty-three years ago and subsequent experience has 
amply proved the value of the rules laid down. 



FSOPEB HOURS FOB MBALS. 47 

bealthy vigour when the hour of relaxation from business 
arrives. Even in weak persons, a light meal will almost 
invariably have quitted the stomach in four or at most five 
hours, and in the strong considerably sooner than this ; at 
intervals of four or five hours, therefore, according to the 
strength of the individual and the rapidity of his diges- 
tion, the stomach will be preparing for fresh work, and 
will call for it by the return of appetite, which must not 
on any account be disregarded. And in this place I must 
again impress the sebious impobtange to health, of not 

NEQLECTING THESE OCCASIONAL BEFBESHMENTS PUBING BUSI- 
NESS. 

The day's labour over, the objections to taking a full 
meal are at an end, provided the second golden rule has 
been observed ; and the amount of refreshment, necessary 
to repair the wear and tear of the day^s exertions, may 
now be taken with decided advantage. I must here re- 
mind both employers and employed, that rest of mind and 
of body are necessary for a short time before taking a 
meal. To those who have been mentally occupied with 
sedentary business, a short leisurely walk will be a very 
proper prelude to dinner; but to those whose physical 
powers have been taxed during the day, there should be a 
short period of perfect rest before commencing the chief 
meal. It is a habit too common among commercial men 
to return home, impatient for their dinners, and to com- 
mence eating immediately, while in a fatigued condition. 
I have, in many instances, induced such persons to lie 
down for a quarter of an hour before beginning their meal; 
and have seen so much benefit arise from this practice, 
that I can confidently recommend it to all who are 
actively engaged during the day. When the dinner is 
finished, one hour at least should be devoted to mental 
and physical tranquillity — some leisurely amusement being 



48 FBOFEB HOURS FOB MEALS. 

preferobble to sleep. (See Sleep, Chap. I.) When the meal 
has not exceeded the bounds of moderation, a sufficient 
quantity of gastric fluid for the digestion of the whole 
will generally be secreted within this period of rest ; after 
which, the same quantity of blood and nervous energy 
being no longer required by the stomach, some more 
active employment of the mind or body may be indulged 
in, and all will go on well. 

The full meal of the day, then — the dinner — should, 
under ordinary circumstances, be taken between the hours 
of five and seven p.m., which will allow time for it to be 
entirely disposed of before the hour of sleep arrives ; and 
as the whole night passes without refreshment, a light 
refection such as our national "tea,'' is very desirable about 
three or four hours after dinner. These arrangements will 
be found perfectly consistent with the essential conditions 
of healthy digestion; and, with a little contrivance and 
modification of hours in particular instances, are practi- 
cable in the majority of large establishments. And here 
let the Mends of " early closing'' observe, that by doing 
away with the injurious mid-day dinner, there will be so 
much saving of time in the best part of the day, and con- 
sequently a better opportunity of concluding business 
earlier in the evening. 

It remains for me briefly to point out some of the incon- 
sistencies of the system now most popular among dyspep- 
tics and those employed in business. The dinner being 
taken at one or two o'clock must necessarily be a hurried 
one; it is impossible in the middle of business to allow 
time for rest, before or after the meal, to any serviceable 
extent : the evil consequences of this, in a large number 
of instances, have been already referred to. The " tea" 
being taken between five and seven o'clock, can only be a 
light meal, for the stomach does not require more so sooi^ 



AFTERNOON TEA. 49 

after dinner, therefore there is but one alternative, to leave 
the system without substantial nourishment from two 
0^ clock p.m., until breakfast next day, or to take another 
meal just before bed-time : of the two the latter would be 
the better, if the supper could be limited to a very mode- 
rate refection; but after waiting from an early dinner 
until nine or ten o^ clock in the evening, a person in health 
has too good an appetite to be contented with this ; there- 
fore the stomach is loaded at a time when it cannot empty 
itself properly before the hour of sleep ; the disadvantages 
of which are too familiar to need repeating here. Any 
one, therefore, who is anxious to regulate his diet accord- 
ing to the jpopular ideas of what is healthy, finds himself 
in this dilemma. He believes it to be an essential point 
that he should dine at an early hour. He knows that rest 
before meals, eating them slowly, and rest after them, are 
all necessary to proper digestion. He also knows per- 
fectly well that, in the middle of the day, his business will 
not allow him either the rest or the leisurely dinner. 
Supper he is convinced is a most unwholesome meal, yet 
he knows from sore experience, that to fast from his early 
" tea^' until next morning, leaves him too exhausted to 
sleep comfortably, to rise with vigour, or to enjoy break- 
fast. At length, if he reason at all, it becomes clear to 
him that to do what he thinks right in one respect, he 
must do wrong in another — a sufficient proof that there is 
error in the whole system. 



AFTERNOON TEA. 

Some remark is necessary in reference to the now pre- 
valent custom, among the upper classes, of dining very late 

E 



50 AFTERNOON TEA. 

and taking an afternoon tea. Unless cautiously arranged 
it is apt to lead to dyspepsia. The rule should be that 
the tea should precede the dinner by three hours, and not 
come sooner after lunch than three hours, assuming the 
lunch to have been a good meal ; and if any tea or coffee 
is taken after dinner it ought to be immediately after, so 
as to constitute part of the same meal, and to partake 
in the same process of digestion. It is most injurious to 
take tea or coffee from one to two hours after dinner or 
any other full meal. Finally, on going to bed, or about 
four hours after dinner, a tumbler of water should be drunk 
to clean the stomach of the debris of the last meal. This 
will promote a refreshing sleep and a clean mouth in the 
morning. 



Chapter II. 
FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

A FOOT-POUND, A POOT-TON, A BRITISH UNIT OP HEAT — MECHAN- 
ICAL-EQUIVALENT OP A BRITISH UNIT OP HEAT — COMBUSTION 

OP CARBON, CONSUMPTION OF OXYGEN, EVOLUTION OP HEAT 

MODS IN WHICH THE HSAT EVOLVED FROM POOD IS DISPOSED 
OP — COMPOSITION OF SOME OP THE PRINCIPAL ARTICLES OP 
FOOD AND THEIR HEAT-EQUIVALENTS AND MECHANICAL 
EQUIVALENTS — ^WEIGHT AND COST OP POOD COMPARED WITH 
WORK PRODUCED — USES OP NITROGENOUS AND NON-NITRO- 
GENOUS FOODS. 

*«* See Essentials of a Normal Diet. Chapter HI. 

The relation between food, heat, and mechanical force 
has been the subject of some of the most important in- 
vestigations of late years, and the light which has been 
thrown upon it is one of the greatest steps in the progress 
of medical science. But so far as medical art and practice 
are concerned, very little application has yet been made 
of this advance in scientific knowledge. This is only what 
might be expected, considering the occult nature of the 
subject, and the scarcity of time among the great body 
of medical practitioners to master and familiarise them- 
selves with the details of such departments of medical 
progress. 

Nevertheless, it is high time that such facts as are at 
present known, and such applications of them as are at 
present possible, should be added to the common stock of 
knowledge possessed by practical medical men ; for it is 
only in this way that the public can derive benefit from 
our advances in science. 

e2 



52 FOOD^ HEAT^ AND MOTION. 

For the purpose, therefore, of enabling practitioners 
easily to familiarise themselves with these matters, the 
following concise statement has been prepared : — 

1. A Foot-pound is the amount of mechanical force re- 
quired to raise a pound weight one foot. 

2. A British Unit of Heat is the amount of heat required 
to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit. 

3. This amount of heat (a British unit) may be convert- 
ed into mechanical force sufficient to raise a pound weight 
772 feet. 

4. This amount of heat (a British unit) is generated 
by a pound weight falling through a space of 772 feet. 
Hence 772 foot-pounds is called the Mechanical Equivalent 
of a British unit of heat. 

6. One ton weight is 2,240 lbs.; ^ = 0-34465; 
therefore, the heat units multiplied by 0*34465, will al- 
ways give the mechanical equivalent in Foot-tons, 

6. The heat of combustion of carbon and hydrogen 
fully oxidised (to CO3 and H3O) is as follows : — 

H „ 62,032J 

7. The total heat of combustion of a compound contain • 
ing H and C is the sum of the quantities of heat which the 
and H contained in it would produce separately by their 
combustion. 

8. It has been found that the presence of Hydrogen 
with Oxygen in the proportion to form water does not affect 
the total heat of combustion. It is only the excess of Hy- 
drogen that can be made serviceable as a source of avail- 
able heat. 

9. The mean consumption of oxygen by an adult man 
of average stature (weight 150 lbs.) taking ordinary exer- 
cise is about 30 ozs. avoirdupois in 24 hours, and the 



1 lb. 



C evolves 14,500 , ^ . . , ^ . ^ „ 

British Umts of Heat. 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 53 

heat evolved by each 1 oz. of oxygen in combining with 
carbon, hydrogen, etc., is about 340 British units. Hence, 
10,000 British units of heat will be evolved every 24 hours 
by the combination of 30 ozs. of oxygen with carbon, 
hydrogen, etc.; therefore, the food of an adult man, under 
ordinary circumstances, should be such as may, in addi- 
tion to other purposes, evolve at least 10,000 British units 
of heat. 

10. Practical experience in the dieting of large num- 
bers of men, and other means, have enabled us to establish 
the fact, that such an average man, as above described, 
requires, for the maintenance of health, a diet which shall 
contain about 4 ozs. of plastic materials, 3 ozs. of fat, 
and 10 ozs. of carbo-hydrates ; and on careful analysis of 
this diet, we find that it can supply the required 10,000 
British units of heat — viz., 2,516 from the plastic, 3,357 
from the fat, and 4,150 from the carbo-hydrates ; total, 
10,023. 

11. The mode in which these 10,000 British units of 
heat are disposed of, and the purposes which they serve, 
may be seen in the following calculation which has been 
made as nearly correct as possible. 8,000 British units 
are required as sensible heat, — to raise the temperature 
of the inspired air to the temperature of the body, to 
vaporise the pulmonary halitus, and to maintain animal 
heat. The mechanical equivalent of 2,000 British units 
(equal to 690 foot-tons) is expended in actual work, 
more than half of which is employed in internal vital 
work (the mechanical work of the heart alone is equivalent 
to 200 foot-tons ; respiratory and other vital movements 
may be estimated as equivalent to nearly 200 foot-tons 
more), leaving about 290 foot-tons available for external 
work, which may be represented by the labour of walking 
16 miles; but of course only so much is available for 



54 FOOD^ H£AT^ AND MOTION. 

actual walkings as is not nsed in the other external move- 
ments of the body, which we daily perform. (See Chapter 

IV.) 

In the following table the conditions laid down in No. 
6, 7, 8, of the foregoing paragraphs have been observed in 
calculating the British units of heat given in the last co- 
lumn but one, and the mechanical equivalent of the Heat- 
units given in the last column, has been calculated by the 
rule stated in paragraph 5. 



KX)D, HEAT, AND UOTION. 



55 



'8U0) )00I 
OI )U3[BAmD3 



»n o m o m 

^ M en N fH 

VO VO N O 
N 00 C< VO VO 

• • • • • 

00 0^ 0^ ro O 
M moo ro fH 



o o o o 
f^ "^ r^oo 

m f^oo N 
po mvo o 
M mvo M 



fnOO 



o 



m 

ro 



m m m m o 

ro 

in Vi- t«H N p» 

COOO N ro N 

M MM 



? 




s 



m 

N 
N N 

00 ro 



moo 
r^ m fH 
ro r^vo 
ro N O^ 

o vo o 



8VO. 0^V0 O ro 
CO w ro N M 

M M CO H 



•JBSH JO 



co^o^oo moo to 00 o 

m m m*© o\ m en m o\ 

^sMO>^MMMro 



CO m M CO ^ fo»o to m o 00 
o^^oooo ioo\o ^s^smro 

CO« fOCO«M{00\CO 



O 



00 O Q »nOO VO00VO^ON00Nr^MMroOt-«O» 
m ^VO 00 fnVO -^ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0^VQ VO ro N m o^ O^OO ro 
p jnN«p pM « p pcoj^proro« M covo ro O 

M 00 fH COOO mo*o^^H^HO o^« romr^ ^vo o fo 

^<» r^ Tt-oo O ^ N ro f^vo vo roOOO mn MOOVO -^ 
p p ^ P M p Z*^ P CO ro p p CO «M O M ^ O ^ O 

QtOO fH Q ro ro •^ covO VOVO O «00 mvO r^M O^VO 

Q f^roO ION "<i-M mmM m m^roM mo mO 

PPP>;*Ppppppppppppp^PP 

covo N o^ ^00 VO ro COVO f^ ^ moo rooo ro , N 
mmQ-^NONNmcOONCONOO-O O 

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO I O 



••»3»«M 



o^vo O O m fH t«H t^ moo M o ^ t^ rovo O O o m 

rooo « « vo M 00 0^ N rovQ f^roro-^N O^^I O O^ 

DON ^M COt^M t«*M MVOOO M MVO t^O M MOO 



'fejsaij^ 



m o o 

O M M 

O O O 



fH m "^ o\ N 00 

"^ N CO N M 

o o o o o 



30 mto 

8S8 



00 t^ 

ro N 
O O 



O 



K>< m 

58 



8 



*)U3ai3idui03 



N 

o 



o 
m 



rooo 

M N 

O O 



VQ ro 



I I g"^ 



O M 



VO ro 

M CO 

O O 



00 



I 18 



^ 



'3UI)BP9 PPV 



§1 I I I I I I I I I M I I I I § I I 



'3aUBl{33BS 



VO , CO 

m I m 



N 

O 



O , 00 

m I VO fH 






00 N o^ 
^ rovO^ 
O in -^ 



o t^ 



f CO M 

1 N 



00 



8?. 

O^ O 



•J«J 



m tN o VO 00 

N O vo »0 
vo O 00 C< 



o^oo 

288 



o m o^ M 00 m o 
M -^00 ro »n M vo 
o o o o o O M 



I. 8^ 



00 



o 
o 



•Di;s«id 



goo 



8 



o 00 o o vo N M 
_ M o »o mvo ^00 

OMOrOMOMMO 



m m o o\ m f* M 
N ■^ m M t«H M m 

« O M N M O O 



M 

o 



•siod 
-npjiOAy 'szo 




Q 
O 
O 
fa 

h 
O 

10 

M 

U 
H 

< 



•a 
o 



•a 

•c 

curt 



o 

QJ CO 









'A 

C p jC bc.S^.S ^^"S « S oo.y 



^" be w 



CO . 

o 

♦J • 

rt u 



CO 






o a> 
bcbo 

SO) 



56 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 



Professor Frankland has determined the weight and cost of various ali- 
mentary articles that would be required to raise the body- weight of a person 
of 10 stone or 140 lbs. to a height of 10,000 feet, reckoning in accordance 
with Helmholtz's calculation, that the animal system is capable of turning 
one-fifth of the actual energy developed by the oxidation of the food to 
account as external work. 



Name of Food. 



Cod liver oil 

Beef fat 

Butter 

Cocoa nibs 

Cheshire Cheese . . . 

Oatmeal 

Arrowroot 

Flour 

Pea-meal 

Ground rice 

Isinglass 

Lump sugar 

Commercial grape sugar . 
Hard-boiled eggs . . . 

Bread 

Lean ham (boiled) . . . 

Mackerel 

Lean beef 

Lean veal 

Potatoes 

Whiting 

Apples 

Milk 

White of egg .... 

Carrots 

Cabbage 

Guinness' Stout (bottled) 
Bass' Pale ale (bottled) . 



Weight in 
lbs. required. 



0-553 

0-555 
0-693 

0735 
1*156 

1-281 

1-287 

1-311 

1*335 

1*341 

1*377 

1*505 
1-587 

2-209 

2*345 
3-001 

3*124 

3*532 
4-300 
5-068 
6-369 
7-815 

8-02I 

8*745 
9-685 

12*020 

I bottles 



At price per lb. 



»» 



5. d. 

3 6 
10 

I 6 
10 

2| 
I O 

2| 

3i 

4 
16 o 

6 

3i 

6J 

2 
I 6 

8 
I o 
I o 

I 

I 4 
li 

5 per qt. 
6 

li 
I 
ID per bottle 

10 n 



Cost. 



£ s. d. 
I ll| 

1 o\ 
I i\ 

"i 
3i 

I 3J 

31 

4I 

5i 
I 2 oj 

9 

5i 

I 

3i 

5| 

4 

ii| 

3$ 

H 
2J 

oi 

7i 
6 



4 
2 

3 
4 



I 

4 

I 

I 

5 
7 



*^ Looked at in the manner above represented, muscular 
work, like heat, in opposition to Liebig's theory, is deriv- 
able from the oxidation of non-nitrogenous as well as 
nitrogenous matter, and Professor Frankland's tables 
show that '55 lbs. of fatty matter \till furnish the same 
amount of power as is obtainable from 1*3 lbs. of flour, 
1*5 lbs of sugar, 3*5 lbs. of lean beef, and 5 lbs. of pota- 



fOOD^ HXAT^ AHD KOTIOH. 57 

toes. Traabe even inyerted the propofiition of liebig^ 
and asserted in the most decided maimer that the sub- 
stances by the oxidation of which force is generated in 
the mnscles are not the albnminons constituents of the 
tissues, but non-nitrogenous principles, viz., either &ts or 
carbo-hydrates. 

'^ According to the foregoing table, wherein is men- 
tioned the cost of the various articles of food required to 
be consumed to accomplish a given amount of work, it 
appears, viewing these articles purely in their capacity 
as force-produdng agents by oxidation, that the same 
amount of work, is obtainable from oatmeal costing 3^. ; 
flour, 3|<2. ; bread, 4f (2. ; and beef fat, 5|c2. ; as from beef 
costing 3». 6^. ; and isinglass £ I 2«. O^d, 

" Taking all the facts as at present revealed into con- 
sideration, we appear to be warranted in adopting the 
following terms of expression. It is in the first place 
admitted on all hands that food is the source from which 
muscular power is derived, and hence the supply of food 
should be in proportion to the amount of work that is 
performed. It was formerly thought that food must be 
converted into muscular tissue before it could be availa- 
ble for the performance of work, which involved the 
origin of work from nitrogenous alimentary matter. The 
effect of recent investigation, however, is to show that 
it is not to an oxidation of muscular tissue that we are to 
look for the force produced. The muscles appear to stand 
in the position of instruments for effecting the conversion 
of the chemical energy evolved by the oxidation of com- 
bustible matter into working power. Fats and carbo- 
hydrates can furnish the combustible matter required, 
and, under ordinary circumstances, probably do largely, 
if not chiefly, supply it. Nitrogenous matter can do so 
likewise, but it has to undergo -a preparatory metamor- 



58 FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

pilosis for effecting the separation of nitrogen in a suita- 
ble form for elimination 

''As thus considered the non-nitrogenous alimentary 
principles appear to possess a higher dietetic value than 
the nitrogenous, and when regarded solely in relation to 
capacity for force production, there is no doubt they in 
reality do so. But there is a further point to be looked at. 
The physical development and maintenance of the body 
must be likewise taken into account, and for this it is 
nitrogenous alimentary matter only that can supply what 
is needed. Wherever vital operations are going on, 
there exists nitrogenous matter. It is, indeed, through 
the instrumentality of nitrogenous matter that the opera- 
tions of life occur. The tissues which form the instru- 
ment of living action require to be constructed in the first 
instance ; and next, to be constantly renovated, to com- 
pensate for the loss by deterioration which is continually 
going on. Thus, a demand for nitrogenous alimentary 
matter is created quite apart from direct contribution to 
force production ; and, further, not only is nitrogenous 
matter required for the construction and repair of the 
tissues, but likewise to form a constituent of the secre- 
tions, for all secretions which possess active properties 
owe them to the presence of a nitrogenous principle. 
Here then is an additional demand for nitrogenous matter, 
and, it is to be remarked that as increased work leads 
to an increased development of the tissues employed and 
thereby an increased appropriation of nitrogenous matter, 
so it calls for an increased production of secretions in con- 
sequence of the largei" amount of food that has to be 
prepared for consumption. In this way, theoretically; 
without contributing in a direct manner to force produc- 
tion, the performance of work may be looked upon as 
necessitating a proportionate supply of nitrogenous ali- 
mentary matter. 



FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 59 

" Practically, it is found that hard work is best per- 
formed under a liberal supply of nitrogen- containing 
food. The reason probably is that it leads to a better 
nourished condition of the muscles and of the body gener- 
ally. Under the use of animal food, which is character- 
ised by its richness in nitrogenous matter, the muscles, 
it is affirmed, are observed to be firmer and richer in solid 
constituent^ than under subsistence upon food of a vege- 
table nature As albuminous food produces 

firm muscles, so exercise makes them red. To sum up, 
science intimates that a liberal supply, of nitrogenous 
matter is necessary to produce and maintain muscles in 
a good condition for work, and the result of experience 
is to confirm it. 

" I have been speaking of food considered in relation to 
the performance of work, but it would be unphilosophical 
to look at it only in this light. The question should be 
viewed under a broader aspect ; and the point really for 
the physiologist to discuss is under what combination of 
alimentary principles the highest state of development, 
both mental and physical, is attainable. If regarded as 
living for the mere performance of work, and looked at 
economically, man, it may be said, would bear an un- 
favourable comparison with a machine set in motion by 
steam. Mechanical work is under no form so costly as 
under that produced by muscular agency, and particularly 
by that of man. It has been calculated, it is true, that 
whilst through the medium of the animal system, one- 
fifth of the power stored up in the food consumed* is 
realisable as external mechanical work, the amount realisa- 
ble from fuel is only one-tenth in the case of even the best 
constructed steam-engine, the remainder being dissipated 
or lost as heat. Thus far, the animal machine is more 
economical of its force than the machine of artificial con- 



60 FOOD, HEAT, AND MOTION. 

struction; but on the other hand^ the fiiel (food) con- 
sumed in the former is very much more costly than that 
consumed in the latter. From this consideration human 
labour can never compete in economy with steam, and 
hence, as suggested by Donders, the worse use to make 
of a man is to employ him exclusively in mechanical 
work — a proposition which harmonises with the increasing 
introduction of machinery in our advancing age of civib'- 
zation. Letheby, (Gantor Lectures on Food) on the subject 
of the comparative costliness of food and fuel, says, 
' Taking a steam engine of one horse-power (that is a 
power of raising 33,000 lbs. a foot high per minute) 
it will require two horses in reality to do the same work 
for ten hours a day, or twenty-four men ; and the cost 
would be lOd. for the steam engine, 85. 4d. for the two 
horses, and just £2 sterling for the twenty -four men/ 

" From what has preceded we may conclude that, with 
a supply of nitrogenous matter sujficient for the thorough 
development and subsequent maintenance of the body in 
good condition, the best materials for the production of 
working power, as well as heat, are the non-nitrogenous 
principles, and that of these the fats* are more eflpective 
than the others/^ '^ A Treatise on Food^^ ^c, by F. W. 
Pavy, M.D., 1874. 

• (See Fat, Chapter V.) 



Chapter III. 
NORMAL DIET. 

ESSENTIALS OF A NORMAL DIET — MODE OF CONSTRUCTING DIETS 

^EXPENSIVE DIETS AND CHEAP DIETS FOR MAINTAINING 

HEALTH — TABLES AND ANALYSES — THE WHOLESOMENESS AND 
DIGESTIBILITY OP VARIOUS ARTICLES OF FOOD — MODES OF 
COOKING IN COMMON USE. 



ESSENTIALS OF A NORMAL DIET. 
(See Food, Heat, Motion). 

A HEALTHY adult man of average stature taking moderate 
exercise, will require and can consume, daily, from 32 to 
40 ounces avoirdupois of dry nutritious food, which should 
have the following characters : — 

1. About TFo must be mineral matter. 

2. From f to J may be water,* leaving f or not less 
than \ or from 15 to 20 ounces of anhydrous solid alimen- 
tary material. 

3. Three or four ounces of plastic matter must be com- 
bined with three or four times that quantity of heat-giving 
material. 

4. The heat-giving constituents must contain a mixture 
of fats (hydro-carbons) with saccharine materials (carbo- 
hydrates), in the proportion of about 1 of the former to 3 
of the latter. 

5. These heat-giving constituents should supply from 6 

* (See table showing the quantities of water in various foods). 



62 NORMAL DIET. 

to 10 ounces of carbon, the exact amount required varying 
with season, exercise, etc. 

6. The Articles of Food must be sufficiently varied to 
meet the requirements of the taste and of the appetite, 
and their Mechanical and other Conditions must be suited 
to the digestive powers of the stomach. 

In addition to these characters, every complete diet 
must contain some potash- vegetable or fruit; and the 
total amount of water taken in 24 hours, including that 
contained in the dry food, must not be less than 70 ounces 
avoirdupois. 



DIET TABLES TOR THE MAINTENANCE OF HEALTH IN 
ADULTS LIVING IN THE CLIMATE OF THE UNITED KING- 
DOM. 

Each diet table contains all the essential elements of 
nutrition, in forms, quantities and proportions necessary 
to the maintenance of health.^ The tables have been made 
complete without Alcohol, leaving this to be ordered or 
not, according to circumstances. But, if fermented liquors 
are added to any diet table, the quantity of carbon which 
they contain must be borne in mind. (See Alcohol Table 
Chapter VI.) 

It will be observed that the totals of the corresponding 
columns of the analyses are nearly the same in all the 
diet tables, showing the important fact that all the 
essentials of a normal diet may be equally secured in a 
diet that is simple and cheap and in one that is compli- 
cated and expensive. 

In all diets Salt must be used and in those which do 
not include Potatoes some other Potash-vegetable or Fruit 
or Cresses or Lime or Lemon juice must be taken. 



NOBHAL DIET TABLES. 



63 



No. I. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




6 


Meat, Poultry or 
















Game (cooked). 


3*97 


1-35 


•53 


• ••• 


•42 




4 


Fish . 




3'i9 


•66 


•03 


• ••• 


-02 




10 


Bread . 






4'20 


I^OO 


-07 


4*53 


1*93 




8 


Potatoes 






5-81 


•14 


• ••• 


1-84 


•76 




2 


Rice . 






•18 


•10 


•01 


1-63 


•73 




21' 


Sugar . 






• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


1-05 




2i 


Butter . 






• ••• 


• • •• 


2*50 


• • •• 


1-85 


5 




Milk . 






4*34 


•25 


. 'I7 


•21 


-22 


i6 




Coffee . 






1577 


• ••• 


• ••• 


-22 


-10 


i6 




Tea . 






15-05 


• ••• 


• ••• 


-05 


•02 


17 




Water . 






17-00 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


54 


36 




70-41 


3*50 


3-31 


10-98 


7-01 






In Plastic mattei 


r 
il 


• 


• • 

• • 


1-89 










Totj 


8-99 



No. 2. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Fpod for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




0J6. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




8 


Meat, Poultry or 
Game (cooked). 


5-29 


1-80 


•71 


• • • • 


•56 




12 
12 


Bread . 
Potatoes 




5-04 
8-71 


I-20 
-20 


-08 

• • •• 


5*44 
276 


2-32 

I-I4 




2 


Butter 




• ••• 


• ••• 


2-00 


• • • • 


1-48 


5 
16 

16 

16 


2 


Sugar . 
Milk . 
Chocolate 
Tea . 
Water . 




• ••• 

4*34 
15*20 

15-95 
i6-oo 


• ••• 

-25 
•07 

• ••• 

• ••• 


• • •• 

•18 
•32 

• • ■ • 

• • • • 


2-00 
•21 

•38 
•05 

• ••• 


•84 
•23 
•42 
•02 

• ••• 


53 


36 




70-53 


3*52 


3-29 


10*84 


7'oi 






In Plasti( 


c mattei 
Tota 


• 

• 

I 


• 
• 


• • 

• • 


1-90 




8-91 



64 



NORMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. 3. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 


fluid 




ozs. 


ozs. 




18 




3i 




3 




li 


5 




20 




20 




20 




65 


26 



Food for 24 hours. 



Bread . 
Cheese 
Bacon 
Sugar . 
Milk . 
Chocolate 
Tea . 
Water . 



Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


7*56 


I -80 


•12 


1-28 


1^07 


•89 


•76 


•25 


1-88 


4*33 


•25 


•17 


19-00 


•10 


•40 


19*93 


• ••• 


• ••• 


20-00 


• ••• 


• ••• 


72-86 


3*47 


3*55 



In Plastic matter 
Total 



Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 



8-15 
•08 

• • •• 

1-50 
•21 

•07 



10-51 



Carbon, 
ozs. 

3'47 
•70 

1-48 

•63 

•22 

•50 
-04 



7-04 
1-87 

8-91 



No. 4. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 


fluid. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




8 




16 




8 




2J 


10 




20 






il 


25 




55 


36 



Food for 24 hours. 



Fish . 
Bread . 
Potatoes 
Butter 
Milk . 
Cocoa . 
Sugar . 
Water . 



Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


6-38 


1*33 


•06 


6-72 


1-60 


•II 


5-81 


•14 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


6*93 


•40 


•28 


19-10 


•10 


•60 


• ••• 

25-00 


• ••• 

• ••• 


• *•• 

• ••• 


69-94 


3-57 


3*55 



In Plastic matter 
Total 



Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 



725 

1-84 

• ••• 

•34 
•20 

1-50 



11*13 



Ca bon. 
ozs. 

•05 
3-09 

•76 
1-85 
•36 
•56 
•63 



7*30 
1*93 



9-23 



NOSMAL DIET TABLES. 



65 



No. 5. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 34 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




16 


Bread . 


672 


i-6o 


•II 


7-25 


309 




3 


Peas . 






•41 


•65 


•04 


1*40 


•65 




4 


Bacon . 






ri4 


•33 


2-50 


• ••• 


1-98 




2 


Cheese 






•73 


•61 


•51 


•05 


•40 


10 




Milk . 






6*94 


•40 


•28 


•34 


•36 


20 




Coffee . 






1971 


• ••• 


• ••• 


•28 


•13 




I 


Sugar . 






• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


i-oo 


•42 


35 




Water 


* * 




35'oo 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


63 


26 

* 




70-65 


3*59 


3*44 


10-32 


7'03 






In Plastic mattei 


• 

I 


• 
• 


• • 

• • 


1-94 










Total 


8-97 



No. 6. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


1 
Plastic. 


Fat 


Saccha- Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








nne. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


40 




Milk . 


34-68 


: 2-00 


1-40 


1-68 


i-8o 




4 


Rice . 




•36 


i -20 


•02 


3*26 


1-46 




3 


Eggs (two) . 




2-15 


1 '45 


•32 


• ••• 


•26 




2| 


Sugar . 




• ••• 


1 •••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


1-05 




I 


Butter . 




• ••• 


• ••• 


I-OO 


• ••• 


74 




9 


Bread . 




378 


•90 


•06 


4-08 


1 74 


30 




Water . 




30-00 


1 •••• 

1 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


70 


191 




70-97 


\ 3*55 


2-80 


11*52 


7-05 






In Plastic mattei 


r 


• • • 


1*92 






Tota 


1 


• • • 


8-97 



66 



NOBMAL DIET TABLES. 



No. 7. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha- 

• 


Carbon. 


fluid 




Food for 34 hours. 








rine. 




oca. 


0Z8. 




ozi. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




20 


Bread . 


8-40 


2*00 


•14 


9*06 


3-86 




3 


Eggs (two) . 
Butter 


•21 

• ••• 


•44 

• ••• 


•32 
1-50 


• ••• 

• ••• 


•26 
i-ii 


20 
20 




Milk . 
Cocoa . 


17-34 
IQ'IO 


I'OO 

•10 


•70 
•60 


•84 
•20 


•90 
-56 


25 


} 


Sugar . 
Water . 


• ••• 

25*00 


• ••• 

• • •• 


• ••• 

• ••• 


•75 

• ••• 


•31 

• • •• 


65 


25i 




70-05 


3*54 


3-26 


10-85 


7'00 






In Plastic 


: matter 
Total 


• 
• 


• 
• 


• • 

• • 


i-gi 




8-91 



No. 8. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 




Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


Saccha 


Carbon 


fluid 




Food for 24 hours. 








rine. 




ozs. 


ozs. 




ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 




8 


Rice . 


-72 


-40 


•03 


6-54 


2-93 




7i 


Eggs (five) . 


5*40 


i-ii 


-80 


• ••• 


-65 




2\ 


Sugar . 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


2-50 


1-05 




l\ 


Butter . 


• ••• 


• ••• 


1-25 


• ••• 


-92 


40 




Milk . 


34-68 


2-00 


1-40 


1-68 


I -80 


30 




Water . 


30-00 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


*... 


70 


i9i 




70-80 


3*51 


3*48 


10-72 


7*35 






In Plastic 


; matter 
Total 


• 
• 


... 


1-89 




. < 


• 


9-24 



NOBUAL DTBT TABLES. 



67 



No. 9. 



Liquid, 
fluid 
ozs. 


Dry. 
ozs. 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water, 
ozs. 


Plastic, 
ozs. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine, 
ozs. 


Carbon, 
ozs. 


27 
42 


9 

H 

3 
6 


Flour . 
Suet . 
Sugar . 
Eggs (four) . 
Milk . 
Water 


113 

• ••• 

• ••• 

4*32 
23-41 

42*00 


1-28 

• ••• 

• ••• 

•88 
i'35 

• ••• 


•og 
175 

• •• • 

•64 
•94 

• ••• 


6-28 

• ••• 

3-00 

• ••• 

I-13 

• ••• 


2-82 
1-38 
1-26 
•52 
I-2I 

• ••• 


69 


191 




70-86 


3-51 


3-42 


10-41 


7-19 


In Plastic matter .... 


1-89 








Total 


I 


• 


• • 


9-08 



No. 10. 



Liquid, 
fluid 
ozs. 


Dry. 
ozs. 


22 
49 


16 
i 


71 


i8| 



Food for 24 hours. 

Oatmeal 
Milk . 
Butter 
Sugar . 
Water . 



Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


2-14 


2-40 


•93 


19-07 


I-IO 


77 


• ••• 


• ••• 


175 


• ••• 


• ••• 


• ••• 


49-00 


• ••• 


• ••• 


70-21 


3-50 


3*45 



Saccha- 
rine, 
ozs. 



8-51 
-90 

• ••• 

75 



10-16 



lu Plastic matter 
Total 



Carbon. 



ozs. 



4-46 
•99 

1-30 
•32 



7-07 
1-89 



8-96 



No. II. 



Liquid. 


Dry. 


fluid 




ozs. 


ozs. 




25 




3i 




2 


60 




60 


$oi 



Food for 24 hours. 

Bread . 
Cheese 
Butter . 
Water . 



Water. 


Plastic. 


Fat. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


ozs. 


10-50 
I-I8 


2-50 
i-oo 


•17 
•83 


• ••• 


••*• 


2-00 


60.00 


**•• 


• •• • 


71-68 


350 


3-00 



Saccha- 
rine, 
ozs. 

1 1 '33 
-08 



11*41 



In Plastic matter 
Total 



Carbon. 



ozs. 



4-82 

-65 

1-48 



6*95 
1-89 

8-84 



f2 



68 



NOSMAL DIET TABLES. 



OEPHANAGE DIET TABLE. 

The following diet table was arranged, with great re- 
gard for both economy and health, for a charitable institu- 
tion, the inmates of which consisted of children averaging 
about ten years of age, who had all been taken from utterly 
destitute homes. 

No. 12. 



Liquid, 
auid 

028. 


Dry. 
'ozs. 


Food for 7 days . 


This standard diet to be provided 
per head for all the children in the 




16 

122 

2 

12 

10 
5 

4 
2 

4 

I 

3 
12 

7 


Meat (cooked) 

Bread 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Suet Pudding (see 

recipe. Chap. VIII.) 
Flour Pudding (see 

recipe. Chap. VIII.) 
Cheese 
Peas (dry) 
Indian Com Meal 
Cocoa (dryj 
Treacle 

Green Vegetables 
Dripping or Butter 
Milk 

Water (in addition 
to that contained 
in dry food.) 


Asylum and whatever is not taken 
by those under 10 years of age to be 
allowed to those over 10. 




Chemical (approximate) composition 
Per Day. 




Water. 

fluid 
ozs. 


Plastic, 
ozs. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 


Carbon- 
ozs. 


80 


65-00 


3-37 


2*07 


10-50 


6-05 


210 


In Plastic matter . . 


1-76 






290 


X99i 








Total 


• a 


7-81 



The attention of those who visit the poor is requested to 
the following ^paragraph. 

There is considerable difficulty in selecting diets for the 
very poor, which combine cheapness and simplicity with 
the essential chemical composition, in a form which the 
stomach will tolerate. But the two following will be 
found to fulfil all these conditions, so far as it is possible 
to do so without the introduction of meat; and in one of 



PBOPORTION OF WATER IN VARIOUS FOODS. 



69 



them bread is given in the largest quantity consistent 
with health : — 

• No. 13. 

Allowance for twenty-four hours : Bread, 25 oz. ; 
cheese, 2 oz. ; butter, suet, or dripping, 2 oz. These 
yield to analysis : plastic material, 3*1 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; 
saccbarine material, 11*4 oz. 

No. 14. 

Allowance for twenty- four hours: oatmeal, 16 oz. ; 
milk, If pint J- butter, suet, or dripping, 1 oz. These 
yield to analysis : — plastic material, 3*0 oz. ; fat, 2*3 oz. ; 
saccharine, 9*0 oz. 

To each of these diets must be added limejuice or some 
land vegetable, salt, and a free supply of pure water. 

The following table, constructed by Dr. Edward Smith, 
will shew the proportionate quantities of water which are 
present in various solid and liquid foods. 



Arrowroot 
Barley flour 
Beer and ale 
Butter-milk 
Carrots . 
Cheese . 
Cream . 
Dried bacon 
Eels 

Egg . 
Fat beef 
Fat mutton 
Fat pork 
Green bacon 
Indian meal 
Lean beef 
Lean mutton 
New milk 
Oatmeal 
Ox liver . 



Per Cent, of Water. 
18 

15 

91 

88 

83 

36 
66 

15 

75 

74 

51 

53 

39 

24 

14 

72 
72 

86 

15 
74 



Parsnips 

Pea meal 

Potatoes 

Poultry . 

Pure butter and fat 

Rice . . 

Rye meal 

Salmon . 

Skim cheese . 

Skim milk 

Sugar . 

Treacle . 

Tripe 

Turnips . 

Veal 

Wheaten bread 

Wheaten flour 

White fish . 

White of egg 

Yolk of egg . 



Per Cent, of Water. 
82 



15 

75 

74 

15 

13 

15 

77 

44 
88 

5 

23 
68 

91 
63 
37 
15 
78 
78 
78 



70 WHOLESOMBNKSS AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 

THE WHOLESOMENESS AND DIGESTIBILITY OF VAEIOUS 

ABTICLBS OF FOOD. 

• 

Bebf AND Mutton. A healthy stomach will generally 
digest either of these with ease, but a stronger digestive 
power as regards meat is required, as a rule, for beef than 
for mutton. There are exceptions to this, however, and much 
depends on the quality of the meat, some beef being easier 
of digestion than some mutton (assuming the cooking to 
be equally good in both cases). There are also peculiari- 
ties of stomach with regard to ^^ flavours^^ which need con- 
sideration — and it will be found that, whereas the sohd 
inside-meat of either beef or mutton can be digested easily, 
the stomach is ^'upset^^ if the more specially flavoured 
parts are eaten ; and this will occur sometimes with mut- 
ton and not with beef, and vice versa. This remark ap- 
plies to nearly all '^ flavoury^^ foods ; it is partly explained 
by the fact that "flavoiirs^^ are so often dependent upon 
volatile and ^mpyreumatic oils, which are apt to regur- 
gitate. But in the case of meats, when roasted, baked, 
fried, or grilled, the surface is apt to be over- done, and 
the action of the heat on the superficial fat produces acrid 
compounds, consisting of acrolein and fatty acids ; and it is 
these which disagree although the meat itself may digest 
and agree. This difficulty does not occur with boiled 
meats. Another point, and one of great importance, 
which applies to all solid food, is the way in which it is 
cut up. It must be taken for granted that, with the 
best of teeth and the greatest care, portions of solid food 
will occasionally be swallowed imperfectly masticated, 
that is, not converted into a pulp; but when we consider 
how often teeth are defective and how carelessly people 
eat while talking, as a matter of fact, ill-masticated 
food is swallowed at every meal. Now nearly all the 



WfiOLESOMBNBSS AND DIQISTIBILITY OF FOOD. 71 

difficolty may be avoided by a judicious mode of out- 
ting up the food while eating. It must be remembered 
that the essential point to be obtsdned^ is that the digestive 
juices in the stomach shall penetrate to the centre of every 
particle of food and this within a certain time^ limited to 
a few hours at the outside. If the food is cut up into 
dice-like cubes it will often be impossible for the cenia*e 
to be reached before the stomach has expended its di- 
gestive force^ and thus a number of undigested particles 
will be left, either to encumber the stomach when it 
ought to be clean and ready to prepare for the next 
meal ; or if they have passed out of the stomach, to call 
upon the second processes of digestion to attempt to do 
what ought to have been completed in the stomach ; or to 
irritate the intestines by throwing into them an abnormal 
quantity of waste. The same thing occurs, though to 
a less extent, with meats and other foods when their 
tissue is long -fibred if they are cut in thick slices "the 
way of the grain.^^ But if the food is thinly sliced 
'^ across the grain" every fibre is presented to the 
stomach juices in a thin section with both its ends ex- 
posed, and it is then quickly and easily saturated by the 
juices of the stomach, favoured by capillary attraction in 
the direction of the fibres. This is really the great secret 
in enabling the stomach to deal with solid food — Cur 

EVERYTHING ACROSS THE GRAIN AND IN THIN SLICES. 

It must be remembered, however, that one object of mas- 
tication is insalivation, and no cutting up can entirely take 
the place of a sufficient mastication as far as insaliv^ation is 
concerned. But this is of less importance with animal than 
with vegetable foods ; and it so happens that the quickest 
eaters and worst masticators are those whose saliva is 
abundant and readily poured out; because a deficiency 
of saliva necessitates better mastication to render the 



72 WHOLESOMKNESS AND DIGSSTIBILTTT OF FOOD. 

food moist enough to swallow. Advantage may be taken 
of this fact when people are inclined to swallow their 
food half masticated by giving it to them dry. In either 
case, the thin cross-grained slice will be most rapidly 
itoturated with saliva and soonest fit for swallowing. 

Another point of great importance, in facilitating tie 
digestion of hard and soUd substances, is the addition 
of a proper quantity of water to assist the stomach juices 
in dissolving them. Very few articles of food are soluble 
i in alcohol and many are rendered less soluble by its pre- 
sence. It is not sujEcient, therefore, to drink alcohol with 
meals ; a certain quantity of water must be taken whether 
alcohol is also taken or not. On the other hand, it is a 
mistake to deluge the stomach with fluid during digestion, 
for this dilutes the natural juices to such an extent that 
they lose their solvent power. DiflFerent persons have 
diflferent requirements in this respect, according to the 
power of secreting saliva and gastric fluids freely or scan- 
tily and in a concentrated or diluted state. But, on an 
average, about half to three quarters of an imperial pint of 
water is a proper quantity to drink while eating an or- 
dinary dinner, and this is better sipped during the meal 
than drunk at a draught either before or after it. 

Veal and Lamb. Both are the flesh of young animals, 
which is less nutritive and less invigorating than that of 
full grown animals, as it contains more gelatine and less 
fibrine, and, as a rule, it is less easily digested. But lamb 
is more wholesome to most stomachs than veal. Boast 
veal especially is far more unwholesome than roast lamb, 
and often acts almost like a poison to delicate stomachs. 
This appears to be due in chief part to the quantity of the 
fat which, when over-heated on the outside of the meat, 
developes those acrid compounds, acolein and fatty acids, 
referred to under the head of '' Beef and Mutton/' and. 



WHOLESOMENESS AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 73 

these more deeply saturate and impregnate the young 
meat than the firmer flesh of older animals. Thus it is 
more difficult to avoid them by the expedient of cutting 
ofif the outside of the meat. It is very rare for boiled veal 
to disagree to the same extent as roast^ and this is partly 
because boiling does not generate these poisonous com- 
poimds^ and partly because it is more suited to the treat- 
ment of the abundant gelatinous constituents of young 
meat. As a rule^ roast veal should be avoided by those 
with delicate stomachs. 

Pork, is the flesh of young pig, and what I have said of 
veal applies in the main to pork, so far as nutritive value is 
poncemed, but as there is more fat in pork than in veal, 
all the dangers of producing poisonous compounds, by 
roasting, baking and frying, are proportionately increased. 
The deepest parts of the lean of roast pork (if cooked 
through, so as to make sure of killing any parasites that 
may infest it, and to which pork is especially liable) may 
be eaten with impunity by most persons ; but unfortu- 
nately this is not the cut generally liked, the browned out- 
side being the favourite part, and the most dangerous. The 
younger the pork the less nutritive it is, but there is less 
chance of parasites, and in sucking pig this is reduced to 
a minimum. Now the objections to pork apply in a very 
much less degree to well-boiled pork. But boiled pork 
means salted pork, which raises a new difficulty. (See 
Cooking, -&c.) 

Ham and Bacon. These are the flesh of older animals 
than pork, and consequently, if digested, they are more 
nutritious ; but as they are hardened by deep " curing,'^ 
they are more difficult of digestion in their lean parts, and 
what I have said under the head of " Beef and Mutton^' on 
the importance of " cutting thin sUces across the grain", 
applies in its fullest force to these, and to all meats har- 



74 WHOLESOMBKE88 AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 

dened by curing and pickling. The great value of bacon 
is as a store of fat in a compact and agreeable form^ (See 
Fat), and when toasted in slices, which secures thorough 
cooking, the fat seldom disagrees even with delicate 
stomachs. This is not the case with the toasted lean. 
Much of the objection tQ cured meat is removed in the 
case of tongues in consequence of their peculiar " grain," 
which enables the digestive juices to penetrate them easily; 
and many hams and gammons of bacon, which have been 
well cured, well soaked, and skilfully cooked, and then 
thinly sliced across the grain, can be well digested by 
even weak stomachs ; but all these provisions are neces- 
sary. 

Poultry, Game, Wild-fowl and other Birds. Ex- 
cept when the flesh is poisoned by what they have eaten, the 
flesh of all birds is safe for food. Great differences, how- 
ever, exist as to digestibility and wholesomeness, and 
these depend mainly upon, three qualities. 1. The 
amount and quality of fat. 2. The length and size of 
fibre. 3. The density or closeness of the fibre. Abun- 
dant fresh air and exercise diminish fat and improve its 
quality, and render the fibre shorter and closer ; whereas 
want of air and exercise increase the quantity and deteri- 
orate the quality of the fat, and produce a loose long- 
fibred flesh. The fat of all birds is difficult of digestion 
by weak stomachs, and becomes more apt to disagree in 
proportion as it is more oily in quality, and when over-heated 
readily produces those irritating compounds (acrolein and 
fatty acids) already spoken of under the head of meats, 
and as the depth of the lean is not great, a large propor- 
tion of it becomes saturated with the over-heated surface- 
fat and participates in its un wholesomeness. This disad- 
vantage of course increases with the smallness of the bird 
in proportion to its fat. The consequence of this combina- 



WHOLKSOMBNESS AND DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 75 

tion of drccmastanoes is that tamed and fattened birds or 
^' poultry^' are less nutritious, less easily digested, and more 
apt to disagree than wild unfattened birds or " game /^ this 
is illustrated in the case of pheasants, which are rendered 
much less wholesome in the present day, when they are 
coddled and fed like tame poultry, than they used to be when 
they were lefb in a wild and natural condition, and in the 
case of barn-door fowls, which are more wholesome than 
those carefully fattened in yards and cages. In large 
poultry such as turkey, the deeper lean is almost out of 
reach of the poisonous influence of the outside over-heated 
skin and fat, and would be very wholesome, were it not for 
the bad efiects of inordinate over-feeding with want of 
exercise, which impregnates all the tissues with oil. 
Water-birds even when wild become more deeply im- 
pregnated with fat than land birds, and are proportion- 
ately more apt to disagree. 

Yenison and Habe, rank with game, and the same 
observations apply to them as to game birds. 

Babbit, rather stands alone. The fibre is both long 
and dense. It is very quickly hardened by careless cook- 
ing. It requires softening and disintegrating, by gradual 
stewing commenced at a low temperature, and careful 
slicing across the grain to make it digestible. It is very 
apt to disagree from the difficulty of securing these condi- 
tions, without which it often absolutely resists thorough 
digestion by weak stomachs. If used for invalids it 
should be cut up and put in a jar with just enough cold 
water to cover it, then tied down and placed in a very 
slow oven till thoroughly cooked, when it may be turned 
out and eaten with its own gravy. 

Fish. Fish diflfer considerably in their digestibility 
and nutritive value, in consequence of differences in the 
quantity of fat and the mode in which it is distributed ; 



76 WHOLESOMENESS AND DIGESTIBILITY 01* FOOD. 

and in the colour of their blood and the consequent tissue 
of their flesh. Salmon is a red-blooded fish, and its fat is 
distributed much as in red-blooded mammalia, and it ap- 
proaches in nutritive value and digestibility more nearly 
to meat than to most fish. It is a very wholesome form 
of food, and when it disagrees it is usually, either, from its 
being eaten too freely forgetting how nearly it represents 
an equal weight of meat ; or from neglect in cutting it up 
in thin slices across the grain, a neglect which is promoted 
by the readiness with which the flesh separates into dense 
flakes convenient for putting into the mouth, and by its 
being eaten either with a blunt silver knife or with a fork 
ODly; or from an inordinate quantity of fat being swallowed, 
in consequence of the large proportion of fat contained in 
those parts of the fish usually thought to have ihe most 
delicate flavour. 

If these points are borne in mind, salmon in proper 
season, may be eaten with advantage by many delicate per- 
sons who otherwise would be obliged to refrain from it. 

The following fish, like salmon, have their fat distri- 
buted through the tissues, as in the mammalia: — the 
herring, pilchard, sprat, mackerel, eel; but they difier 
much in the proportion of fat which they contain, and 
must be selected for different stomachs very much in pro- 
portion to the power of digesting and assimilating fat. 
Of these, eels are the richest in fat, containing from 14 to 
24 per cent., while mackerel only contains about 7, and 
salmon and trout from 5 to 6 per cent. 

Most other fish, as whiting, flounder, brill, turbot, 
haddock, cod, sole, plaice, are very deficient in fat; soles, 
for example, contain only 0*248 per cent., although it 
is often stored in large quantities in their livers as in 
the cod. But in addition to this difference in the propor- 
tion of fat contained in different fish, great varieties exist 



WHOLESOXSNESS AND DIGESnBHiITY O? FOOD. 77 

in the closeness and toughness of their tissues. In cod^ 
for example^ the flesh is very dense and often tough and 
*^ woolly/^ when it is very difficult of digestion and should 
not be touched by those with weak stomachs. At all 
times cod, and other hard, dense-fibred fish, require care- 
ful cooking, and should be cut up in thin slices across 
the grain, not eaten in flakes with a fork only. The fat 
of fish is of an oily quality, (see Solid and Liquid Fats, 
Chap. V.) and cannot, even when abundant, take the place 
in nutrition of the solid fat of meat ; and this and the 
great deficiency of fat in many fish, make a fish diet 
unwholesome unless properly admixed with other foods. 

But, as an adjunct to other forms of animal food in a 
mixed diet, fish occupies an important place; and the 
lighter sorts of fish, such as whiting and sole, if judi- 
ciously cooked, are valuable in the sick room. For this 
purpose boiling is the safest mode of cooking, but flying 
may be permitted if the outside is rejected. If boiled fish 
is thought too insipid, an excellent plan is to finely mince 
the boiled fish with a little suet, bread crumbs, boiled 
potato, salt and pepper, make it into cakes, and brown 
them in the oven. 

Sbell Fish. Lobsters and crayfish consist principally 
of dense tough muscular tissue, and are extremely diffi- 
cult of digestion to most stomachs. The difficulty may, 
however, be greatly diminished by finely mincing the 
flesh across the grain before eating it. The hard parts of 
crab are open to the same objections as those of lobster, 
but there is more non-muscular material in the crab, 
which is easier of digestion, though apt to disagree with 
delicate stomachs firom containing certain flavouring pro- 
perties. Oysters diflfer greatly from lobsters, crayfish and 
crabs, being principally gelatinous (See Appendix) and 
fatty, and when the beard or gill and the hard muscle by 



78 WH0LES0MBNE8S AND DIGBOTIBILITY OF FOOD. 

which the fish is attached to the shell are rejected^ they 
form a digestible and fairly nutritious article of diet which 
gelierally agrees well with weak stomachs, especially 
when eaten raw, and they would be still more wholesome 
if minced or masticated instead of being swallowed in the 
usual way. 

The hard roe of fish is very nutritious, and when pro- 
perly cooked is usually digested with ease, and forms a 
very useful relish. The hard roe of a Yarmouth bloater 
laid open and nicely toasted, will often get down a slice of 
toast, or of brown bread and butter, when the appetite is 
bad; and even when preserved, in the form of caviare 
and potted cod^s roe, may be used in small quantities 
to induce the stomachs of persons with educated tastes 
to take other food. 

Cheese and Cbbam Cheese. "The time required for 
the digestion of cheese varies with its age and as the &t 
more or less abounds; and in a fairly good cheese of 
medium age it is from three and a half to four hours. 
New cheese and poor cheese require a longer time for 
digestion, inasmuch as they are masticated with greater 
difficulty. Old poor cheese also requires a longer time, for it 
is so hard as to be almost incapable of solution in the gas- 
tric juices, and if a good cheese be old and greatly decayed 
it plays the part of an irritant in the stomach which may 
cause a form of indigestion, and be itself hurried through 
the stomach into the intestines so rapidly as to almost 
prevent its digestion. It is probable that the establisment 
of cheese factories in America and in this country, will 
tend to produce cheese of more uniform quality. There 
are now nearly 2000 such factories in the United States, 
and three or four have been opened in England during 
the last five years. It is necessary for their success that 
there should be good pasture land and plenty of water in 



WHOLESOMENESS AND DIGESTIBILITY OP FOOD. 



79 



the vicinity, and that the farmers should be able to take 
their milk to the factory while it is yet fresh and new. 
The manufacture of cheese by small farmers is not always 
eflfected in the most cleanly manner, neither, with the un- 
certainty of seasons, is it always lucrative. . . . 

" Cream Cheese is more digestible than ordinary cheese, 
both because it is softer and may be readily masticated, 
and has a less proportion of casein. It is, moreover, pro- 
bable that the process is eflfected in from two to three 
hours/' Dr. Edward Smith " On Foods/' pp. 125—127. 

Milk. ^^ There is no milk which is so agreeable and so 
Uttle disagreeable to the taste as cows' milk, for it has a 
fuller flavour than human milk, or that of the mare or 
ass, whilst it lacks the strong flavour of the milk of the 
buflfalo or goat, and is not so surfeiting as that of the 
sheep. Some of these peculiarities in other kinds of milk 
depend upon the quantity of a nutritive material which 
may be readily determined ; but others, as the flavour of 
goats' and buflfaloes' milk, depend upon an acid which is 
not so easily measured, and is not nutritious. 

^'The following is the chemical composition of several 
kinds of milk : — 





Sp. Grav. 

I'COO 


Water. 


Solids. 


Casein and 
Nitrogenous 
Compounds. 


Sugar. 


Fat. 


Salts. 


Goat . . . 


33-53 


84-49 


15-51 


3-51 


3-69 


5*68 


0-61 


Sheep . . . 


40-98 


83-23 


16-77 


6-97 


3*94 


5-13 


0-71 


Mare . . . 


3374 


90*43 


9*57 


3-33 


3-27 


2*43 


0-52 


Ass . . . 


34*57 


89-00 


10-99 


3-56 


5-05 


1-85 


0-54 


Woman . . 


32*67 


88-90 


10-92 


3-92 


4-36 


2-66 


0-13 


Cow . . . 


3338 


86-40 


13-59 


5-52 


3-80 


3-61 


0.66 



80 



WHOLESOMENESS AND DIQESTIBILITT OF FOOD. 



"The salts in milk are as follows : — 





Per cent. 




Per cent. 


Phosphate of Lime 


. 030 


Chloride of Potassium 


. 0*17 


,, „ Magnesium 


. 0*o6 


,, ,y Sodium . 


• 0-03 


„ „ Iron 


. 0*007 


Free Soda . 


. 0*04 



"As milk is so essential a food for infants, and particu- 
larly when the mother^s milk cannot be obtained, it is 
desirable to prepare a kind which may resemble the latter 
in composition. Cows^ milk differs from human milk 
chiefly in having a larger proportion of fat and casein, and 
a less proportion of sugar. If, therefore, a mixture be 
made of two-thirds of cows^ milk and one-third of warm 
water, to which half an ounce of sugar of milk be added 
to the pint, we shall obtain a composition very similar to 
that of the mothers^ milk. If sugar of milk be not ob- 
tainable, it may be substituted by somewhat more than 
half the quantity of refined cane sugar. Asses^ milk ^ 
differs from human milk chiefly in having more sugar and 
less fat, so that whilst it is not equ&l to human milk as a 
nutrient, it is the best natural substitute for it ; but its 
use is recommended rather in cases of disease than of 
health, when it is desirable to modify the composition of 
the mother^s milk. Equal parts of asses^ milk and cows' 
milk approach closely in composition to human milk.^' — 
Dr. Edward Smith " On Foods/' pp. 315, 316. 

Vegetables and Fbuits.* It has been stated that 
every complete diet must contain some potash-vegetable 
or fruit, and the following is a list of such articles of diet. 
They differ, however, greatly in wholesomeness and nutri- 
tive value, as will be seen by the analysis table (Chapter 

11). 



* For those vegetables and fruits wliich may be allowed in diabetes*. See 
Diet Table for Diabetes, Chapter IV. 



WHOLESOUBNBSS AND DIQESTIBILITT OF VOOD. 



81 



Vegetebles. 


Fruits. 


Asparagus 


Apples 


Broad beans 


Almonds 


Brocoli 


Chestnuts 


Carrot 


Cherries 


Cabbage 


Currants 


Celery 


Dates 


Cauliflower 


Figs 


Cress 


Grapes 


Cucumber 


Gooseberries 


Endive 


. Lemons 


French beans 


Nuts and Filberts 


Lettuce 


Oranges 


Mustard (green) 


Pears 


Mushrooms 


Pine Apples 


Onions 


Plums 


Parsnip 


Prunes 


Peas (green) 


Raisins 


Potato 


Raspberries 


Radish 


Strawberries 


Rhubarb 


Walnuts 


Spinach 




Turnip 




„ Tops 




Watercress 





The points to be especially borne in mind to promote the^ 
digestibility of fruits, are 1 to reject the skins, pips, and 
stones, and the cellular and woody materials such as form 
the '^core^^ of apples and pears, and the segments of 
oranges and lemons. 2. In all the nut tribe to reduce 
them to a pulp or to meal before they are swallowed. 
Thus, chestnuts baked quite to meal are readily di- 
gested, and nuts beaten to a pulp in a mortar form a 
highly nutritious and digestible food. Whereas both are 
exceedingly indigestible in their natural condition. 

With vegetables, great difference exists between such 
as may be classed as " green vegetables,^' containing 
large quantities of elastic, fibrous, and woody tissue, which 
Are quite indigestible ; and the various sorts containing 

G 



82 WHOLBSOM£N£SS AND BiasSTIBILITY OF EOOD. 

much starchy matter, requiring thorough cooking to burst 
the starch cells and make it digestible (see Chapter VIII.) ; 
these are especially liable to be swallowed in lumps, the 
outside of which may be soft, but the centre hard and 
quite impenetrable by the digestive fluids., To prevent 
this they should be crushed with a fork, a precaution 
which will enable many delicate persons to digest potatoes, 
carrots, and the like, who could not otherwise touch them 
with safety. 

In addition, however, to the question of actual digesti- 
bility, both vegetables and fruits may disagree from the 
essential oils which they contain, and upon which they de- 
pend in a great measure for their distinctive flavours. 
This kind of disagreement is of the least serious kind, 
consisting rather in unpleasant eructations than in the 
more distressing and dangerous symptoms due to masses 
of undissolved food. Stomachs have idiosyncrasies in 
this respect which must rather be individualised than 
classified. It may be stated, however, that when one 
species of 'the brassicaciae or cabbage tribe is found fo 
(Usagree, the whole tribe will be also apt to do so, and 
this more and more in proportion as the essential oil is 
more abundant. For this reason they agree better when 
young th€m old, although this is also due to the smaller 
proportion of woody fibre and other indigestible tissue 
which they then contain. 

After all, cooking, carving, cutting up, mastication, and 
careful rejection of indigestible parts while eating, will 
enable persons with weak digestions to vastly enlarge 
their usual list of permissible articles of diet, both animal 
aad vegetable; and it is to these precautions that I would 
especially direct their attention, for it is of the highest im- 
portaaice to avoid unnecessarily Umiting the variety of 
food allowed to all persons, but especially to those of 



MODES OF GOOKIXQ IN COMMON USE. 83 

■ 

poor appetites and troublesome digestions. Monotonous^ 
uninteresting meals, depress the spirits and are subversive 
of appetite, digestion and nutrition. (See Chapter IV.) 

Finally, nobody should take meals in solitude. Society, 
merry talking and laughter, are wonderful aids to appe- 
tite and digestion, and promote all the functions necessary 
to healthy nutrition. 



MODES OF COOKING IN COMMON USB. 
Boiling, Roasting, Broiling, Baking, Frying, Stewing, 

Boiling. There is an art in cooking food in such a 
manner as to avoid, as much as possible, the loss of its nu- 
tritive principles. 

" If the object is to extract the goodness of the meat into 
the surrounding liquid, as in making soups, broths, &c., 
the article should be minced or cut up finely, and placed in 
cold water. After soaking for a short time, heat should 
be applied, and the temperature gradually raised. For 
broths, no actual boihng is needed — ^it is desirable, indeed, 
that it should be avoided, so as not to consoUdate and 
lose the albumen. For soups, however, prolonged boiling 
is necessary, in order fully to extract the gelatine.^' 

If the object is to retain the nutritive properties in the 
meat, an opposite plan must be adopted. " The piece of 
meat should be large, and it should be plunged suddenly 
into boiling water and the process of boiling briskly main- 
tained for about five minutes. This coagulates the albu- 
minous matter upon the surface, and leads to the formation 
of a more or less impermeable external layer, which pre- 
cludes the escape of the juices from the substance of the 

g2 



84 MODES OF COOKING IN COMMON USB. 

meat. After this object has been fulfilled, instead of boil- 
ing being continued, a temperature of between 160° and 
170° Fah. constitutes what is wanted, and this degree 
should be maintained, until the process of cooking is com- 
pleted. Cooked in this way, the central part of the meat 
remains juicy and tender, and possesses, in the highest 
degree, the properties of nutritiveness and digestibility. 
Unless exposed throughout to the temperature named, 
the albuminous anti colouring matters are not properly 
coagulated, and the meat presents a raw or under- dressed 
appearance. If exposed to a temperature much above 
170°, the muscular substance shrinks and becomes propor- 
tionately hard and indigestible. The usual fault commit- 
ted in cooking meat, is keeping the water in which it is 
being boiled at too high a temperature after the first 
(3xposure to brisk ebullition is over.^' 

"Fish is rendered firm in proportion to the hardness of 
the water in which it is boiled. Hence, fish boiled in sea- 
water or in water to which ^It has been added is firmer, 
and, at the same time, more highly flavoured, than when 
boiled in soft water, on account of the less solvent action 
exerted. 

^^ Upon the principle of endeavouring to retain, as far 
as practicable, the soluble constituents of an article of 
food, potatoes should be boiled in their skins, and the 
object aimed at is still further secured by the addition of 
a little salt to the water. By steaming instead of boiling 
the result is still more Completely attained. 

'' Boiled food is more insipid than food cooked in other 
ways. From the lower temperature employed, no empy- 
reumatic products are developed. Being more devoid of 
flavour, it is less tempting to the palate, but sits more 
easily on a delicate stomach 

" Boasting, should be conducted upon the same principle 



MODES OF COOEING IN COMMON USB. 85 

AS boiling. In order, as far as possible, to retain the nu- 
tritive juices, meat should first be subjected to a sharp 
heat. This leads to the formation of a coagulated layer 
upon the surface, which subsequently offers an impedi- 
ment to the escape of the fluid matter within. After a 
^hort exposure to a sharp heat, the meat should be re- 
moved to a greater distance from the fire, so as to allow a 
lower heat gradually to penetrate to the centre. In this 
way the albumen and colouring matters are coagulated 
without the fibrine being corrugated and hardened. . . . 

'' On account of the greater heat employed, roasted meat 
is more savoury than boiled. The surface also is more or 
less scorched, and a portion of the fat is melted and drops 
-away under the form of dripping. Some of the fat like- 
wise, under a prolonged exposure to a strong heat, under- 
goes decomposition, attended with a production of fatty 
acids, and an acrid volatile product known as acrolein, 
which may cause derangement of a weak stomach. In 
toiling, the temperature is not sufficient to incur the risk 
-of rendering the fat in a similar way obnoxious.^' (See 
" On Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles 

^)ffood^O. 

"When properly roasted, the meat is juicy enough 

within to lead to the escape of a quantity of red gravy 

when the first cut is made into it. 

^^ Broiling , produces the same effect as roasting, but 
the proportion of scorched material is greater, on account 
of the relatively larger amount of surface exposed. The 
principle of cooking should be the same, in order to re- 
tain the central portion juicy. 

" Baking, renders meat more impregnated with empy- 
reumatic products, and therefore richer or stronger for the 
stomach than any other process of cooking. The opera- 
tion being carried on in a confined space, the volatile fatty 



86 KODES OF COOKING IN COMMON USB. 

acids generated are prevented from escaping^ and thn& 
permeate the cooked articles. Meat cooked in tliis way is 
ill adapted for consumption where a delicate state of sys- 
tem exists. 

" Flying y is also an objectionable process of cooking for 
persons of weak digestive power. The heat is applied 
through the medium of boiling fat or oil. The article of 
food thus becomes more or less penetrated with fatty mat- 
ter, which renders it to a greater extent than would 
otherwise be the case resistant to the solvent action of 
the watery digestive liquid secreted by the stomach. It 
is apt also to be impregnated with fatty-acid-products 
arising from the decomposition of the fat used in the pro- 
cess. These are badly tolerated by the stomach, and, 
whether generated in this way or when the food is in the 
act of undergoing digestion, appear to form the source of 
the gastric trouble known as heartburn. 

^^ Stewing places food in a highly favourable state for di- 
gestion. The articles to be cooked are just covered with 
water, and should be exposed to a heat sufficient only to 
allow of gentle simmering. A considerable portion of the 
nutritive matter passes into the surrounding liquid, which 
is consumed as well as the solid material. Properly 
cooked in this way, meat should be rendered sufficiently 
tender to break down under moderate pressure. If boil- 
ing be allowed to occur, the meat becomes, instead, tough 
and hard.^' 

"Bashing is the same process, applied to previously 
cooked instead of fresh meat. 

" By surrounding the vessel with water in which the 
article of food is contained, so as to secure that no burning 
shall occur, meat may be stewed in its own vapour. For 
example, a chop or other piece of meat taken upon a small 
scale, may be placed in an ordinary preserve jar, axid iim 



MODES OJ' COOKING IN COMMON USB. 87 

tied over at the top, and partially immersed in water con- 
tained in a saucepan. The water in the saucepan is niade 
to simmer, or gently boil ; and when the proper time has 
elapsed, the meat is found perfectly soft and tender, and 
surrounded by a liquor derived from the juice which has 
escaped during the process. Meat thus prepared is in an 
exceedingly suitable state for the convalescent and in- 
valid. ..... 

^^ Soups and Broths. The process of preparation is here 
directed 'to extracting the goodness from the article em- 
ployed, the reverse of that in the case of boiling. To ac- 
complish what is aimed at in the most complete manner 
the articles should be chopped or broken into fine pieces, 
and placed in cold water. After being allowed to mace- 
rate a short time, for the soluble constituents to become 
dissolved out, it is gradually heated to a point which 
should vary according to the product required. In the 
case of broths and beef- tea, which properly contain only 
the flavouring principle of meat — oswiazome-^and the solu- 
ble constituents with finely coagulated albuminous matter 
all that is required is to produce gentle simmering, and 
this should be kept up for about half-an-hour. In the 
case of soups, a prolonged gentle boiling is required in 
order that the gelatine may be extracted, this being the 
principle which gives to soup its property of solidifying 
on cooling.* Bones require boiling a longer time than 
meat. The chief principle they yield is gelatine, and its 
extraction is greatly facilitated by the bones being broken 
into fine fragments previous to being used. 

^^ Salting, Pickling, and SmoMng, may be alluded to 

here for the sake of stating that by their hardening action, 
they give an article difficult digestibility, which cannot 

* See Appendix VI. " New experiments on Gelatine.'' 



88 



MODES OF OOOEING IN COMMON USE. 



be overcome by cooking." '^ On Food,^ &c. By F. W. 
Pavy, M.D. 1874. 

Dr. Letheby (^'on Food''), gives the following table of 
the loss of weight, per cent., by cooking. 





Boiling. 


Baking. 


Roasting. 


Beef generally 


20 per cent. 


29 per cent. 


31 per cent. 


Matton generally 


20 „ 


31 


35 


Legs of mutton . 


20 „ 


32 


33 


Shoulder of matton 


24 


32 


34 ». 


Loins of mutton . 


30 


33 


36 „ 


Necks of mutton . 


25 


32 


34 


Averages of all . 


23 per cent. 


31 per cent. 


34 per cent. 



Chapter IV. 
SOME PRINCIPLES OP DIET IN DISEASE.* 

PRINCIPLES UPON WHICH TO ARRANGE THE DIET OP DISEASE 
— RULES FOR CARRYING OUT THESE PRINCIPLES — EXAMPLES 
OF DIETS FOR CONSUMPTION, AND FOR DIABETES. 

Triis subject is one upon which it would be very easy to 
write a large book, but which is very diflBcult to treat in a 
short chapter. I must content myself, therefore, with 
condensing what I have to say into a few statements of 
opinion, avoiding all attempts at discussion, and if I ap- 
pear to deliver my views dogmatically it is not because I 
feel at all inclined to dogmatise, but because I am pressed 
by the extent of the subject and the narrow limits of our 
space. 

At page 61, 1 have given ^^the Essentials of a Normal 
Diet^^ for health. The question now is, how ought these 
to be modified in disease ? It will be observed that these 
'^ Essentials of a Normal Diet" provide for the mainten- 
ance of healthy nutrition in a ^^ healthy adult man of aver- 
age stature taking moderate exercise," and, for simpli- 
city's sake, it will be the best to make all our remarks, 
apply to this ^^ adult man of average stature" und&i' altered 
circumstances. 

The first and leading principle of diet in disease is, to 
provide for the maintenance of healthy nutrition, under 
the peculiar alterations of circumstances attendant upon 
disease. In other words, the diet of disease should be as 
nearly that of health as the altered conditions of the nutri- 

* Substance of a lecture delivered by the Author at the Royal Hospital 
for Diseases of the Chest, 18G5. 



90 SOMB PRINCIPLES OF DIBT IN DISEASE. 

tive functions^ and the altered conditions of the patient^s 
life will allow ; the grand object being to keep up healthy 
nutrition of the whole organism. 

The true appreciation of this first principle, in its various 
bearings, will save us from running into either of those 
extremes which at different times have disfigured medical 
practice. We shall not be led to starve our patients upon 
water-gruel, when they are craving for natural food; or 
to stuff them with beef-steaks and porter when every 
instinct of their nature rebels against it. In fact, it may 
be taken as a very safe rule, that it is better cautiously 
to supply a patient with the kind and quantity of food 
that his stomach calls for, than to deny it to him without 
an unquestionably good reason for so doing. 

This may seem very much like letting a patient eat and 
drink what he pleases. But that is not at all what I in- 
tend to recommend. All I mean is this, and I wish par- 
ticularly to impress it, that if we intend to interfere in the 
subject of diet, we must take care that we thoroughly 
understand what we are about ; (see p. 5) and in order to 
do this it is necessary to keep well up in the following 
subjects : — 

1. The physiology of healthy nutrition. 

2. The composition of food, and the essentials of a 

normal diet. 

3. The physiology of disease. 

If we keep these matters well before the mind, and at 
the same time keep our wits about us in watching the 
case under treatment, it is surprising what an immense 
deal of good may be done by interfering with the diet ; 
but not otherwise. 

We start, then with this as our first principle — never to 
be lost sight of — that healthy nutrition is to be main- 
tained, if possible, under all circumstances. And we as* 



SOME FBINOIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 9l 

sume that to do this in a ^^ healthy adult man of airerage 
stature taking moderate exercise/' the essentials of a nor- 
mal diet must be supplied. 

It must be borne in mind^ that the proportions and 
quantities of the different elements of this normal diet are 
arranged to meet the requirements of the different func- 
tions of the organism when in a healthy state of activity j 
and it therefore follows, that if the activity of any of these 
functions is altered,, the requirements will be altered ; and 
hence, the second general principle is this : — To alter the 
quantities and proportions of the elements of a normal 
diet to correspond with any alterations in the conditions 
of life. Thus, when a man is overtaken by sickness, and 
confined to his room or bed, the adult man taking moder- 
ate exercise becomes an adult man taking no exercise; 
and the ingredients of his diet which were proportioned 
to his moderate exercise must now be proportioned to his 
no exercise ; and other alterations must be made in like 
manner, to correspond with other altered circumstances, 
in addition to any that may be specially required by the 
nature of his disease.* 

But I must remind you that, even when a man is con- 
fined to his bed, and precluded from taking any kind of 
exercise, he is still necessarily undergoing a considerable 
amount of muscular exertion, which must be provided 
for in his diet. For example, so long as life remains, 
such all-important muscles as those of respiration, and the 
heart itself, continue to act, and to require that their 
healthy nutrition shall be provided for by a supply of 
plastic materials in the food. 

* See " Food, Heat, and Motion," p. 61. It is there shown that the 
mechanical work of the heart, respiration, and other vital fonctions, require 
sufficient food daily, to generate 4(10 foot tons of mechanical force. But the 
food necessary to generate the 290 foot tons usually required for external 
work, may be omitted from the diet of one taking no. exercise. 



92 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

We come next to the long list of alterations of function 
which may be involved in the term ^^ Sickness/^ And the 
third principle is — To alter the forms, quantities, and 
proportions of the elements of a normal diet, to meet the 
altered relations in the activity and condition of organs 
consequent upon disease. It is evident that, in order to 
carry out our first principle of maintaining healthy nutri- 
tion under all circumstances, it may be necessary, under 
some conditions, to reduce the quantity of every element 
of diet ; and also, under some circumstances, to alter the 
proportions of the different elements. This we see demon- 
strated in some of the lower animals by the phenomena 
of hybernation. When an animal gives itself up to its 
winter sleep, every vital function is reduced to its lowest 
degree of activity ; and the animal is able to maintain 
healthy nutrition for a long period without taking any 
food at all ; but as respiration has to be kept up more 
actively than the rest of the functions, a special store 
of carbon for this purpose is laid up beforehand in the 
body. 

Now, supposing a man to suffer from any state of dis- 
ease which should place him in the position, as regards his 
ftmctions, of an animal during hybernation, it is clear 
that, while his whole diet must be reduced to a very low 
scale, the heat-giving elements must be supplied in quan- 
tities out of the normal proportions as compared with the 
rest ; because no supply of carbon is stored up in prepara- 
tion for his illness, as it is in the hybernating animal in 
preparation for its sleep. 

We see conditions, in many respects similar to these 
in some stages of fevers, in which absorption, nutrition, 
and every vital function is at its lowest point consistent 
with Hfi9, respiration being the only one sufficiently active 
to call for any considerable supply of food. But here, of 



SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 93 

course^ we must not lose sight of an element in the case 
not present in hybernation — viz., the existence of a poison, 
which by some means, natural or artificial, has to be eli- 
minated or destroyed, and which may be keeping some 
fimctions in activity, the requirements of which must be 
met. The precision with which we are able to do this 
in any given case, will depend upon the correctness of our 
knowledge of the nature of the poison, and of the organs 
concerned in the restorative process. Here, no doubt, 
we are often obliged to act in the dark, and to supply 
many ingredients whit».h may not be needed, in the hope 
of furnishing among them that which is required, but 
which our ignorance prevents us frotn identifying. And 
we had far better, whenever our knowledge is at fault, 
act in this safe manner and supply much that may be use- 
less rather than run the risk of withholding that which 
may be essential to life. But, in the majority of cases, 
our knowledge will be sufficient for the emergency, if we 
keep in mind the general principles of action. 

The fourth principle is this : — ^To obtain rest for every 
organ while it is suffering under active disease, by remov- 
ing &om the . diet such elements as increase its functions. 
These are conditions which it is not always easy to fulfil 
without deviating from our first principle. For example 
—in the case of diseased kidney — the healthy nutrition 
of this organ requires a supply of albuminoid materials, 
while its function is increased by any surplus of these 
materials in the organism ; and when its function is in- 
terrupted by disease, a proportion of albuminoids in the 
diet, necessary to the healthy nutrition of the organism 
generally, will be tantamount to an excess as regards the 
function of the kidney, and the accumulation of retained 
excretory matters will press injuriously upon the affected 
organ. In such a case other medical aids than diet must 



94 SOMB PRINCIPLES OF DIET IK DISEASE. 

be brought to bear ; and while the albuminoids in the food 
are reduced as low as is consistent with healthy nutrition^ 
some auxiliary organs which are not damaged must be 
stimulated for the time^ to save the diseased part from 
undue pressure upon its functions. 

A simpler, but sfeill important principle, may be stated 
as the fifth, viz. : — In all alterations of diet, to avoid any 
unnecessary reduction in the number and variety of the 
forms in which food is allowed to be taken. (See p. 83, 
^^Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles of 
food).^^ This becomes especially necessary to be borne in 
mind when dieting the dyspeptic, who are often still 
engaged in the active avocations of business and of society 
while under medical treatment. To treat such cases by cut- 
ting off from the daily bill of fare first one article and then 
another, till the food consists of only two or three permit- 
ted forms, is to destroy the appetite and the digestive 
powers by monotony of diet, and to depress the spirits of 
the patient by a constant series of petty denials. This 
plan of dieting can only be regarded as the resource of 
ignorance ; because an enlightened view of the case will 
discover some particular defect in the function of digestion 
or assimilation which will at once indicate the form or ele- 
ment of the food which is to be avoided j and thus it will 
be only necessary to cut off those articles which specially 
represent this element, or simply to alter the forms in 
which they are presented to the stomach. (See p. 4). 

The sixth principle is also of great importance, viz. : — 
When it is necessary to remove from the food any of the 
essentials of a normal diet, to aim at selecting that which 
will answer the desired end with least danger to the nutri- 
tion of the vital organs. For example, if it is necessary 
for any special purpose to diminish the heat-giving ele- 
ments of the diet, it is safer to remove the carbo-hydrates 



SOME PBINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 95 

than the hydro-cjarbons, because the latter not only supply 
carbon for the evolution of force, but are essential to the 
nutrition of the nervous system, and of the albuminoid 
tissues generally. (See Fat, Chapter V.) 

The seventh and last principle which I shall give in this 
Lecture is of very general application : — When it is de- 
sired to increase the normal nutrition of a tissue or organ, 
we must not only supply it freely with the special materi- 
als requisite for its development, growth, and repair, but 
at the same time call upon it for the performance of its 
normal functions — over-fed idleness insures morbid nutri- 
tion, not healthy life. 

In the next place I will give you a few Rules which may 
assist you in carrying out these general principles. 

Bule 1. — ^When the power of appropriating any essen- 
tial ingredient of a normal diet is lost to the organism, 
the lost function must be substituted by some artificial 
process, or the ingredient in question must be withdrawn 
&om the diet till the normal function is restored. In 
obedience to this rule we administer pancreatic emulsions 
of fat* to -patients, who have lost the power of assimila- 
ting &ib without this artificial assistance, while we adopt 
all practicable means of restoring the normal function, f 

Bule 2. — Is inseparable from the first, and it is this : — 
No essential of a normal diet must be withdrawn, without 
an attempt being made either to supply to the organism 
in some other way the ingredient of which it is deprived, 
or to suspend those functions which call for a supply of 
this ingredient. Thus, to take a simple illustration : — 
Suppose the power of digesting meat to be lost through 
a deficient secretion of gastric juice, meat must be with- 
drawn from the diet till the lost function is restored, or 

• See Appendix for mode of preparing ** Pancreatic emulsion." 
t See Diets for Consumption. 



96 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

else an artificial digestive fluid must be introduced ; or if 
it is impossible by these means to maintain the digestion 
of meat, the physiological ingredients of meat must be 
supplied in the form of some albuminoid solution; or, 
finally, if this cannot be done, then those functions which 
principally waste the albuminoid tissues of the body 
must be placed as far as possible in a state of rest, mus- 
cular action must be suspended until the function is re- 
stored. 

Eule 3. — If an undue waste of any elements of normal 
nutrition is found to be going on in the organism, and the 
means remain of appropriating those elements from the 
food, they must be supplied in the food in quantities as 
much in excess of those proper to the normal diet of hejdth 
as will be sufficient to supply the waste, until it is stopped. 
This also may be illustrated by a very simple example. In 
Bright's disease of the kidney there is no loss of the 
power to appropriate the albuminoids from the food, 
whereas a constant loss of albumen is going on through 
the kidneys, which must be met by proportionate increase 
of the albuminoids in the diet. But in following this rule, 
in this particular case, it will be necessary to observe the 
precautions which I mentioned when speaking of tho 
fourth general principle. 

Eule 4. — ^When through any defect in the organism, 
the elements of a normal diet are lost to nutrition if pre- 
sented in the usual forms, those forms must be changed ; 
but care must be taken that in the altered form all the 
essential elements of a normal diet are supplied in their 
proper quantities and proportions. Nothing can illustrate 
this better than the use of milk as a substitute for solid or 
mixed foods in diarrhoea or sickness. 

Eule 5. — Has to deal with more complicated difficulties. 
If such a defect exists in the organism that some of the 



SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 97 

essentials of a norma] diet are misappropriated^ so that 
the organism is deprived of one or more of the normal 
elements of nutrition^ and at the same time a disease is 
constituted out of the misappropriated food, then we have 
a double duty in interfering with the diet. First, the 
source of the disease must be stopped by withdrawing 
that part of the diet out of which it is constituted ; and, 
secondly, the elements of nutrition thus removed must be 
supplied by some other means or in some other form. 

Thus, in diabetes, the saccharine and amylaceous ele- 
ments of the diet are misappropriated j they do not serve 
their normal function of supplying carbon for the evolu- 
tion of heat, and by passing off through the kidneys they 
constitute an exhaustjbig disease. It is necessary, there- 
fore, to stop the source of this disease by cutting off the 
saccharine and amylaceous ingredients of the diet till nor- 
mal nutrition is restored. But, in the meantime, as car- 
bon must be obtained by some means, it is taken &om the 
fat stored up in the body, so long as that lasts, and when 
it is gone from the albuminoid tissues themselves, till the 
whole organism is disintegrated; unless at the same time 
that we cut off the starch and sug%r, we increase the 
quantity of fat supplied in the food as much in excess of 
the proportion proper to a normal diet as shall fully sup- 
ply the demand.* 

The modem dietetic treatment of diabetes may be taken 
as a good example of the way in which increased know- 
ledge of the nature of disease and of the physiology of 
food enables us to act under what I have called the fifth 
principle of diet, viz., to avoid any unnecessary reduction 
in the number and variety of the forms in which food can 
be taken. In former days the poor parched diabetic was 

* See Diet for Diabetes, p. 104. 



98 SOME PRINCIPLES OF DIET IN DISEASE. 

forbidden to drink water lest he should increase his flow 
of urine j now we are able to let him quench his thirst as 
much as he pleases^ so that he takes nothing which con- 
tains starch or sugar; and again, by preparing his articles 
of food in such a manner as to exclude the injurious in- 
gredients, and by selecting those which are known to con- 
tain them in the smallest quantities, or not to contain 
them at all, we are able to present the diabetic with a 
fairly tempting and varied diet, so that he is able to keep 
to it for months and years with comparatively little diffi- 
culty. See p. 4.) 



99 



DIETS FOE CONSUMPTION. 

In these Diets for Consumption it is assumed that no 
fat is assimilated except that artificially pancreatised. 

In Table I. The required amount of carbon is supplied 
by an excess of carbo-hydrates. (See p. 95). 

In Table II. The required amount of carbon is sup- 
plied by an excess of albuminoids. (See p. 95). 

In Table III. The amount of carbon is kept low, be- 
cause it is only intended as a temporary diet 
to be used during periods of rest in a warm 
room. The arrowroot and some of the fat of 
the milk are pancreatised by mixture with the 
^^ pancreatic emulsion.^^* (See p. 91). 



* See Appendix for mode of preparing " Fancreatio Emulsion." 



H 2 



100 





• 

s 














J 

e V 




5. 


• 


• 


V 

a 





O M 


CO 




• 




1 ==1 


OmOOOONmO 


o» 






u 





















5 i 


WON O « 


•8 


• 


• 


6 t^ 




1 


t^ JO p . «n « M . . 

o o o o o o 


• 


• 


• 




••* 




, 






.5 V 
" IS 




• 


• 








1^ 


n 


II 


« O NOO O O O O Q 
M ^00 00 ^ l^ CO O l^ 




i 


1- 


^•1 


X 


^<3 


MdOOMOdMO 


M 
M 







M 




1 
O 

0^ 


a 


. loop op op p & . . 


5:: 


• 


• 




< 


■8 


• 


• 


• 


• 


C/3 


-^ M M O M -^ 


M 






NN 












1 

«> ® 

St 




• 

fa 


^O OVO O Q 

job . . r^r P . P 

o O O M 


1 

• 


• 
• 


• 
• 


H 
























^-•Q 


1 

• 












0^ 


Z 














O 

l-H 




o Q«o 9 Q Q 

tn Q tn * O O • • 

CO O ^ . -O CO CO , a 
M M O M O O 


• 


• 
• 


• 
• 


« a 

•a 9 

»4 c 


S 












D 












o-a 


CO 

o 


• 

o 


«ooooctc«c««o *ct 

M • 


CO 


• 
• 


• 
• 




u 












5 g. 


Qti 








r^^^^^x 




o 






• 


1 • 

C 


• 


cu - 


s 




-s:- 


CO 


• 


. . . . .CO • • • 

c 

.OS 


« 


1 

G • 



• 

c 


5° 

•r «< 

S 9 

0. 
It ♦* 


Q 


(0 

9 




• 


6^ 


1 


6 M 




i 
^ 


CO M 

• • • -5*^ 8 3 3 


• 


^^ 00 





- 

e 
•0.5 




t4 

«v4 




OQ 






^ 


=311 






'§.2 5 8):^'8'S c c 

Oq PL4 CO ^ iJ p£4 p£4 PL4 




1 




1 







1'^ 
•§8 




:§ 'ft* g 



101 



o 





V 




bA 




u 




a 




»■< 




^ 




u 




> 


o 


V 




^ 


o 


7 


2 


bo 


HH 


c 


s 




p 


u 


n 


bA 


i-j 


•o 


< 


c 




• «i« 


1 


>«>• 


HH 


CO 




«0 


pa 


S 


I-) 


o 


n 


♦* u 


-< 


ven 
atte 


H 


1 


as 


2 
O 




HH 


•^ c« 


£ 


§& 

^ 


s 


CO 


p 


4> 


CO 


*S 


;z: 


^ 


o 


£ 




T3 


o 


§ 


fa 






O 


CO 


< 


H 


u 


M 


C 


HH 


©• 


Q 


2 




!» 




» 








•«« 




Q 




CO 




• «« 




5 




« 








^ 



« 



o 

1 c 
e « 

o M 



c 





o 

c 

8> 



•5| 

'M.Q 

Ui « 



u 
u 



1X4 






N 

o 



e 

9 
O 

M 

■s 



m O 

• • 

o o 



moo 

fO O M 

o « 

• • 

o o 




r^o o 



O Q O O 

o\ t^ r^ H t^ « M 

• ••••• • 

o o o o o o o 



^ CO 

m o 
b b 



o\ 




H 


• 


CO 


• 


^ 





m CO ^«o ON 
moo t^fo « 



hOOOhONhh 



O O Q ^Q Q 

m t^ "^ m Q ^ 
CO N •«}• « o t^ 

■ *•••• 

Oho 



o 


o 

H 


r^ 


""^ 


N 


H 


H 





00 



go 



M 00 



2|8 

» ON IN 



00 00 

r^oo "^ 



O M M "^-M o o 



I 



N o mo 
M m m m 

t^OO O N 

• • • • 

o o o o 



o o 
cog 

o o 

bb 



• O M 

o o 



m 

M 

o 

« 

CO 



882'gS'88 

00 fO fO fO "^ ^ cc 



H H O >-• O 



CO 

o 




M O 



i 



OOO COM CO^O COMO 



M 



«9 



»• c 

£.2 
o « oi2 

I I 8-§.2r6 

go 2 ^tJ-^^ 

•o -fe fl» 3 V, o»> c 2 

"^ S v S{ P c« u £9^ V C Si! 
S bo-r Si » V u bo^ a> C c 





r*-'^-^ 


• 


1 • 




c 




a 




a. 


• 


c • 




o « 






• 


s* 




O CO 




^ rt 


• 


CO 


GO 


1^ 


h) 


S-a 


< 

h 

o 


VJ CO 


H 


educ 
crea 




Q 



c 

O 

U 

<4^ 

O 

H 



c 

e 
O 



a 






e 

« 

V 

.o 
o o 

o a 
5 § 

as 
^ 

n '^ 

Ml • 
O >« 

*^ "S 
a p 

04 S 

O CO 

•- J3 

s§ 

•0 of 
O V 

^^ 

O 

"c! (« 

£:: 

w 
4^ O 

t O . 
«<« V K 

•Tl M "* 

^ <! "O 

• -»- 



102 






•J 
fa 

I 



pa 
•J 
n 
< 

I 

o 

H 

:^ 

D 

CO 

o 
o 

pt^ 
o 
fa 

CO 

H 

m 



I J 










1 9 










from 

Non- 
Nitrogeno 


o 

M 

in 


8. 

H 

• 


1 

• 

o 


1 


■ •• 










Carboi 
enous. 


« 


■^ 


• 


s 


M 


H 


M 




o 


S 


• 


• 

o 


• 


• 


•M 










z 










• 


o 


o 


o 


O 


<< S 


«4 


m 


x^ 


H 


^^ JQ 


«p 


P 


r^ 


t^ 


^(3 


»o 


N 


b 


do 


• 










C 


-g. 


S 


• 




•1 


CO 




• 


H 

do 


tt 










03 












o 


o 




O 


-M 


m 


w 


Q 


»n 


f? 


r^ 


o 


Q 


t^ 


Cu 


• 




• 


• 


^^ 


CO 


b 


H 


^ 


• 

u 

s 


1 

• 

CO 


8 

• 

o 


• 
• 


1 

• 


• 


o 


\o 


M 


00 


o 


M 






M 




• 


• 


• 


• 




• 


• 


• 
• 


• 




• 


• 


C 

o 

CO 


• 




• 


• 


3 


• 




O 




S 






12 




m 


(» 





09 


4-1 

1 




•J 

< 

H 
O 




t^ 


^ 


2; 


H 




^ 


o 


a 








fc 






•"* 


a 






S 


< 


(U 












1 



s 

o 

M 

e 

o 

^ S «B 2 
B § a 9 

s i c s 






c 
«> 

> 

•o 
c 

6 
«> 

J3 



a 
o 



a 

OS 



u 

. o 

•g sT 

o ^ 






-^ J* 



.a 

b b g^ & 

*r> u ^ ai 



e ^ 



> ^ 



V ^ V 






9 
.Q 

V 



s^ ^ ^ I 

o 



g « 



»^ 8 8 8 



•« ^ ^ ? 

c 6 c S 

tt tt et * 

•M ^ "^ ^ 

rs :r •« 12 

> o o o o 
bo 



1 

s 

c 






O 00 



CO 

H 



80 so 80 to 
N N N N 

o o O o 



«> 

2 -2 

CO QQ 

•o o 

C v 

'S S 

o O 

*^ s 

* ti 

s o 

** u 

09 '2 

^ -M 

I 

V w 

.c c 

H O 



K 



o 
c 



•5S 



t3 

B 
c« 

o 

e 

I • 

o c 
« 5* 

O C3u 
•O < 

u * 



DIET FOR DIABETES. 

Table IV. In this Diet starch and sugar are reduced 
to a minimum and fat and albuminoids are given 
in their place, some of the fat being introduced in 
the form of Pancreatic Emulsion to assist in its 
assimilation. (See p. 97). 



104 



O 

c 
a 

3 

to 



> 

c 
'■5 

09 

biO 



C/3 

a 2 

^ > H 

Q -S <* 






09 

c 

a. 



< 
o 

,2 

u 
o 

•a 

A' 

u 

•a 

CO 



^^8 



c 
o 

.Q 
u 



c c 



H 

o 



5X^ 



® 9 

M O 

• • 

o o 



c 
c . 



«n O 



m o 
CO o 
O w 

O b b b 



o o 

m M 

• • 

o o 



O O Q m 
30 mvo 00 


N 




t^ 


• 


^ r^« ^ 


""^ 


« 


H O O H 


O 





G 
V 

as 
.5° 



\o o oo 

t^ ^ HI VO 

o< t^ r^ M 
• • • • 

o o o o 



CO m 
o> o 

• • 

M O 



m 


o 




m 


t^ 


• 


M 


VO 


• 


b 


'^ 





» a 

O *; 

^6 



•noo r^ CO 

• ■ • • 

M o o o 



00 r^ 



o mo o 

00 mvo N 

•^ ION \0 



NO M M O O M 



t^ 


« 


"^ 


M 


as 


\o 


• 




o 


o 


M 





as 



— o 



CO 3 

• >»* 

O 



■ 



O 



00 -"^ 
"^ CO 
M W 

M b 



1 






N O «n O 
M M in to 

t^ M O N 

• • • ■ 

o o o o 



o 

CO 

o 

• « 

o o 



1 



o o o 

«n N 00 

r^ fooo 

• • • 
O O H 



CO 



«o 



8 



O <» M 



00 
00 CO CO CO 

• • • • 
H M H O 



«n CO 
m O 

• • 

CO O 



I 



o 


'^ 




m 


t^ 


• 


w 


o 






■ 




o 


o> 







00 (O COM 


(O CO 


. e« M CO CO 


(O 
CO 


• 
• 


• 
• 



e 

o 

"*• 

M 

U 

1 



o»o 

O « 

o c 



3 
o 

C 
c« 

c« 

V 

"o O.S « 
O O C^ 

aoQu 



o 
u 

n 



•a 

c 

ca 



CO 
N 

o 



++ 

c 

O 



3 

5 



CO 



CO 



«-4 .U U 



(O U CQ 



O 

c 



> 

C 



O 



C0*O 

3 W 

C o tJ 5 
« " 3 cJ 



c 

Oh na,(z)n 



CO o 

bDc« 





/^^^\ 


• 


« • 




^ 




o 


• 


♦^ . 




V 




G 




•c 




ss « 




'C -^ 




o «5 




(J ti 


• 


^ ^ 
^ . 




CO 


CO 


O ^ 


•J 


< 
o 


in 


H 


o»a 




^ a> 




S-^ 




O 



I 

> 
c 

O 

O 



O 

H 



a 
us 
OS 



« 
o 



CO ^ 



5^ 



i^S 



or* 

is CO 
n u 

«0 «« 



'•^ !!• 9 •«! 



'''SE*: 



Chapter V. 

■ 

FAT. 

PAT ESSENTIAli TO HEALTHY NUTRITION — IMPORTANCE OF DIS- 
TINGUISHING BETWEEN SOLID AND LIQUID FAT— ON GETTING 

THIN BANTINGI8M— ANALYSIS OF BANTING-DIET, SHOWING 

ITS ERRORS AND ADVANTAGES^ON GETTING FAT — FAT AND 
STARCH IN THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 

Fat is so essential to the maintenance of healthy nutri- 
tion, that the quantity contained in the daily food cannot 
be reduced much below the proportions given in the 
" Essentials of a normal diet'^ and in the normal- diet 
tables, without great risk of damaging the health. 

When it is necessary for any special object to reduce 
the quantity of carbon taken in the aliments, this can 
more safely be done by diminishing the saccharine and 
amylaceous matters than the fats. 

The importance of fat in nutrition should be studiously 
borne in mind by those who construct diets for the poor, 
for public institutions, or for the treatment of obesity, 
diabetes, fatty degeneration, dyspepsia, and the like.* 



THE IMPORTANCE OF DISTINGUISHING BETWEEN SOLID AND 

LIQUID FATS.f 

The peculiar isomeric modifications of which stearin and 
palmitin are susceptible, as shown by Duffy, pointedly 

* See Chapter rV. "on Diet in Disease." 

t Sabstance of an Article by the Author in the "Chemical News, Sept. 
4th, 1868." 



106 SOLID AND LIQUID PATS. 

distingoisli them from olein^ which^ so far as at present 
known^ has not this susceptibility; a distinction which is 
supported by the different behaviour of oleic acid towards 
chlorine and bromine, from that of stearic or margaric 
acids (Lefort), and by the different action of bile upon 
stearic acid and upon oleic acid (Marcet). 

But I think we ought to be prepared to learn, that oolid 
and liquid fats differ in some important physiological pro- 
perties, by the first general fact concerning the constitu- 
tion of all natural fats — viz., that they are mixtures in 
varying proportions of at least four different bodies, of 
which the melting points so widely differ — stearin melting 
at 144*^ F., palmitin at 114*8° F., margarin (probably a 
compound of stearin and palmitin) at 116° F., while olein 
remains fluid at 32° F. 

That the different degrees of solidity of fats depend 
upon the proportions in which the solid ingredients are 
mixed with olein, that olein has a peculiar power of dis- 
solving the solid ingredients, and that the melting point 
of the mixture is thereby reduced, appear to me to be 
facts pointing in the same direction as the foregoing, es- 
pecially when we remember that the affinity of oleic acid 
for oxygen is much greater than that of the other fatty 
acids. 

The fatty' bodies obtained from warm-blooded animals 
are generally solid at ordinary temperatures, whilst those 
from fish and from cold-blooded animals are liquid.* And 
when we consider the high melting points of the solid fats 
as compared with the^ temperature of the body in warm- 
blooded animals, it is evident that the fat in them would 
be solid at the temperature of their blood, but for the 
mixture of olein, by which the melting point is reduced. 

* See Wholesomeness and Digestibility of various articles of Food, Chap- 
ter ni. 



SOLID AND LIQUID FATS. 107 

Therefore the solidity or fluidity of the fat in living ani- 
mals is determined by the proportion of olein, which is 
able to be mixed with the stearin, palmitin, and margarin 
in each individual ; and we are forced to conclude either 
that it is of no importance whether the fats of the body 
during life are in a solid or liquid state, or that it is im- 
portant in what proportion the olein, stearin, etc., shall be 
combined. 

It has been already proved by experiments on the fat- 
tening of cattle, that the solidity or fluidity of the fat in 
the body varies jfith the food — that cattle fattened upon 
linseed cake, for example, accumulate, in their adipose tis- 
sue, an oily material of unusual fluidity (Draper), and that 
the consistence of butter is dependent upon the kind of 
food given to the animals from which it is produced 
(FownesJ. 

The fat in animals is particularly liable to accumulate 
immediately beneath the cutis, in the omentum, and 
around the kidneys ; and the fat found in the latter situa- 
tion, where it is subject to a more uniformly elevated tem- 
perature than in the integument, is well known to be of a 
more suety character — that is to say, it contains a smaller 
proportion of olein, and has a higher melting point. 
These familiar facts point again to some importance, in 
the animal economy, attaching to the melting point of the 
fat and the consequent degree of fluidity in which it should 
exist during life. 

With regard to the fat of the integument — the principal 
deposit of adipose tissue in the body — it appears to me 
self-evident that the fluidity of this fat must vary with the 
temperature of th6 atmosphere in which the animal is 
placed ; to what extent this is the case, is, in my opinion, 
a most important subject for enquiry ; and although the 



108 OETTING THIN. 

experiments to determine the question are yet deficient^ I 
hope soon to be able to supply them.* 

In conclusion^ what I now suggest as a general proposi- 
tion, is this : — ^That, in all probability, the stability of the 
fats of the animal body in resisting too rapid oxidation is 
dependent upon the degree of solidity which they possess 
at the temperature of the living animal at any given time ; 
that alterations in external temperature may affect the 
solidity of the adipose tissue of the integument, and, con- 
sequently, its power of resisting oxidation ; and that, 
therefore, in all probability, it is of grcjjt importance that 
the food of an animal shall contain a certain proportion of 
material capable of supplying the adipose tissue with solid 
fat : i.e. fat having a high melting point. 



ON GETTING THIN. 

On comparing the following analysis of Mr. Banting^s 
diet for getting thin with my tables of normal diets it will 
be seen that it yields less than half the normal quantity of 
Carbon, leaving the deficiency to be obtained from the fat 
already stored up in the system, by the consumption of 
which the obesity is removed. The fault consists in this 
reduction of Carbon being obtained by diminishing the 
Hydro-carbons (fats) of the food instead of only cutting 
off the Carbo-hydrates (Sugar and Starch). 

* This statement was first published in 1868, and, up to the present time 
1875, the difficnlties attendant upon the experiments have baffled those 
who have attempted to solve the question. 



OSTTINO TfflK. 



109 



Mr. Banting's Diet. (Approximate analysis). 



Liquid. 

fluid 
ozs. 


Dry. 

> 

ozs. 
aroinL 


Food for 24 hours. 


Water, 
ozs. 


Plastic. 

QZS. 


Fat. 
ozs. 


Saccha- 
rine. 

ozs. 


Carbon 


I6 
14 


14 

2 
2 

3 


Meat, Poultry, 

Game and Fish 
Bread . 

Vegetables (green) 
Fruit . 
Tea . 
Wine (Claret) . 


925 
0-84 

179 

2*52 
i6*oo 
13-00 


315 

0*20 

0*02 

• ••• 

• ••• 

• ••• 


1*25 

O'OI 

• ••• 

• ••• 

• ••• 


• ••• 

•90 

•15 
•40 

• ••• 

• ••• 


•98 

•39 
•07 

•15 
•02 

70 


30 


21 




4340 


3*37 


1*26 


1-45 


2*31 








In Plastic matter 


• • 

• • 


1-82 






Total 


413 



It has liappened to me to have to do with a great num- 
ber of persons who have tried Bantingism^ and I do not 
hesitate to say that^ up to the present time^^ Mr. Banting 
has done a great deal more good than harm. He did not 
bring forward a single new fact or new idea^ but he 
had the Inck^ by zealously advertising a striking case of 
the effects of a plan of treatment long familiar to every 
medical man who understood physiology^ to convince the 
public of the immense influence on the animal organism of 
modifications in the quality of food — an influence in the 
importance of which they did not half believe when urged 
upon them in the form of medical advice. 

Mr. Banting candidly told his readers that he was 
ignorant of the physiology of food, but they did not care 
for this while determined to try his plan, and hence it is 
not to be wondered at that while many have been bene- 
fited many have done themselves harm. But the harm 

* This was first written in 1864 and I can safely repeat it now : 1875. 



110 GETTING THIN. 

that has been done at present is not very great and is 
nothing to compare with the harm that will come, if, 
frightened by some striking case in which Bantingism has 
nearly cost a man his life, the public rush away from it as 
blindly as they rushed into it, and establish for a time 
such a popular prejudice against systems of diet, that a 
medical man shall not be able to institute those rational 
and scientific regulations of diet which are often more im- 
portant than any other means of treatment in the manage- 
ment of disease The plain and simple facts of the 

case are these. 1. A certain amount of fat in the system 
in one of the most essential elements of health. 2. The 
quantity required by different individuals to maintain 
health differs. 3. The .effects of a deficiency of the quan- 
tity actually required in any given organism are most 
disastrous, the tissues of the body and the brain and 
nerves being at length disintegrated to supply the ele- 
ments of fat which they contain. 4. When there is a 
quantity of fat in the body in excess of that necessary to 
health, it may be lessened with great and needed 
advantage provided it be done slowly and cautiously — 
allowing the nutritive functions of the system to accom- 
modate themselves gradually to the altered condition — 
and most peremptorily stopping the loss of fat before it 
has amounted to a deficiency in the quantity necessary to 
healthy nutrition. Nothing is easier than to make a fat 
man thinner by altering his diet, but to do this safely and 
well is by no means devoid of difficulty, and in a large 
number of cases requires the greatest caution, considera- 
tion and judgment on the part of those who rule the 
modifications in the diet of the patient. But there is no 
denying that, with such care and judgment, it can in 
most cases be done safely and advantageously. 



GETTING FAT. 1 1 1 



ON GETTING FAT. 



The measures necessary for getting fat are of course the 
reverse of those for getting thin. They consist in — 1. An 
abundant supply of carbo-hydrates and hydro-carbons 
(fats^ starch and sugar) in the food. 2. Means to pro- 
mote the assimilation of these. 3. Means to prevent 
waste by oxidation. 

The artificial fattening of cattle is secured by the adop- 
tion of similar measures^ and afibrds the most familiar and 
striking illustration of the subject. 

In this case, (see Draper^s Physiology, p. 251) the 
first indication is satisfied by the purposed employment 
of oleaginous and farinaceous articles, as for instance, 
linseed cake, or by the selection among ordinary food sub- 
stances, of those which, like Indian corn, abound in oil. 
It is to be remarked that the increase of weight of an ani- 
mal may take place in two ways: first, by adding fat to the 
deposit in the adipose tissues ; or second, by development 
of the muscles. It might perhaps be permissible to speak 
of the former as adipose fattening, the latter as albuminised 
fattening. According as it has been subjected to one or 
other of these processes, an animal will be very differently 
prepared for undergoing severe exercise. A horse fed 
with Indian com cannot maintain himself under severe 
exercise so well as if he had been fed on oats. In the 
former case his adipose tissues have been developed, in the 
latter his muscular. 

The third indication is met by resorting to every 
expedient which can restrain the action of the respired 
oxygen. A state of perfect quiescence is therefore to be 
observed. Muscular movement of every kind increases 
the activity of respiration. On the contrary, rest dimin- 
ishes it. If in addition to this state of quiet or rest, sleep 



112 FAT AND BTABCH 

likewise be indulged in, the object is still more perfectly 
attained ; and if a bigb temperatare be also resorted to, 
since this checks the oxidation needful for maintaining 
the system at its due temperature, this further diminishes 
the waste of fat. 

Under such circumstances, where everything is done to 
give a supply of fat, and everything, to prevent its con- 
sumption, it may be caused to accumulate in the tissues 
to an extraordinary amount. But this very soon inter- 
feres with the action of the liver. 



FAT AND STARCH IN THE NUTEITION OF CHILDEEN* 

A very interesting article by Dr. Prospero Sonsino, of 
Pisa, in the September, (1872) number of the '^ Practi- 
tioner.*^ ^^ On the Physiological Dyspepsia for Starchy 
Food in Infancy," revives an intention, from which I 
have been diverted by other occupations, of publishing 
a few words on an allied subject. 

I propose to speak of the class of cases constituting 
that wretched form of " atrophy and debility*' and " ma- 
rasmus** in children, in which every part of the body 
wastes away except the abdomen; the state described 
by Dr. Droitt, in the last edition of his " Vade Mecum,** 
in the following few and graphic words : — ^^ Emaciation 
and voracity ; the belly swelled and hard ; the skin dry 
and harsh; the eyes red; the tongue strawberry-coloured; 
the breath foul; the stools clay-coloured and offensive, 
sometimes costive, sometimes extremely relaxed ; the pa- 
tient usually dies hectic'* (p. 75). 



* Substance of an article by the Author in the " Peactitionek. 



tt 



IN THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 113 

I wish to bring promineDtly forward the fact that this 
state, provided there is no advanced lung- disease, is 
rapidly cured by Pancreatic Emulsion* given in doses of a 
teaspoonful every four hours, and regularly persisted in till 
fat and flesh are restored. It is, of course, necessary that 
a proper diet should be insisted on at the same time; 
but proper diet without the Pancreatic Emulsion vdll not 
do. This I have found over and over again in cases 
where everything judicious in the way o-f feeding and 
cod liver oil had been carefully and perseveringly tried 
without avail, but which, on the addition of the Emulsion 
to the previous'diet, began at once to improve. 

This fact has been familiar to me for a long time ; and 
considering how largely Pancreatic Emulsion is now used 
in the wasting diseases of adults, I am surprised to find 
that it is not even referred to in the latest works on the 
diseases of children. Looking through these works and 
examining their indexes, one is led to the conclusion that 
their authors are not aware that there is such an organ 
as the pancreas, or that pancreatic juice has ever been 
used in any form in the treatmeut of disease.! Yet 
scarcely a week now passes but some general practitioner 
relates to me cases of the successful use in his own prac- 
tice of Pancreatic Emulsion in the wasting of delicate chil- 
dren. 

Dr. Prospero Sonsino^s paper will, I hope, excite more 
general attention to this important subject. He, how- 
ever, has laid all the stress of his observations upon the 
influence of the salivary and pancreatic juices on the 
digestion of starch. This is unquestionably a point of 

* (See Appendix IV.) 

t The word " pancreas^' does not occur in the indexes of the last editions 
of West, Tanner, Yogel, Meigs and Pepper, Eustace Smith, Churchill, on 
Diseases of Children. 



114 FAT AND STARCH 

the greatest importance in the case of very yonng chil- 
dren brought up by hand^ as showing the absurdity of 
attempting to nourish them upon starchy food^ not arti- 
ficially digested, before the period of life at which the 
saliva and pancreatic juice attain their functional activity. 
And even then, as Dr. Sonsino afterwards remarks, 
^^ good reasons make us now believe that really it is not 
proper to feed infants with copious starchy matters, how- 
fever these may be rendered digestible.'^ The principal 
results of Dr. Sonsino's investigations are summed up 
in the two following conclusions, which, however, are 
not new: — 1. '^Pancreatic juice in dogs, cats, and rab- 
bits, in the first week of life — ^perhaps for some days 
more — is devoid of any digestive action on starch.^' 2. 
'^ In the early life of man, probably till the beginning of 
dentition, infants offer a true physiological dyspepsia for 
starchy aliments, caused by the inactivity of one at least — 
possibly of all — the humours that concur in the digestion 
of those aliments'' (saliva, gastric juice, pancreatic juice, 
enteric juice). 

No doubt, when wasting occurs in these early periods 
of life, it is very often due to foolish attempts to nourish 
children upon farinaceous foods, by which dyspepsia and 
diarrhoea add to the exhaustion of partial assimilative- 
starvation. But, as a matter of fact, farinaceous food is 
seldom depended upon without some addition of cow's milk 
or some assistance from lactation; and we see children 
suffer from wasting who are fed entirely upon cow's milk 
or nursed by their mothers, and in such cases the '^ phy- 
siological dyspepsia for starchy food" will not account 
for their decline. Therefore we must not forget, that 
although normal saliva only acts upon starch, normal 
pancreatic juice acts also upon fats ; and it is probable 
that these two functions of the pancreas are sufficiently 



IN THE NUTRITION OF CHILDEEN. 115 

independent of each other that they may exist separately. 
This I pointed out in my paper to the Royal Society in 
1868, '' On the Special Action of the Pancreas on Pat and 
Starch^' (See Appendix IV.) It [is there stated as the 
results of .my experiments, that ^^in addition to the in- 
fluence of the pancreas upon fat, it has the power of 
converting starch ^into glucose by simple mixture. This 
property remains to a certain extent after the 'pancreas 
his exhausted its property of acting upon fat. The quan- 
tity of pancreas which before mixture with fat will convert 
about eight parts of starch into glucose, after saturation 
with fat will still convert about two parts of starch into 
glucose." It is possible, therefore, that in different 
states of depraved health one or other of these properties 
of the pancreatic juice — that for the digestion of starch, or 
that for the digestion of fat may be deficient. And thus 
the depraved nutrition due to such deficiency will not be 
limited to the period of hfe anterior to that at which, 
under normal conditions, the proper functions of the 
pancreas should be developed. It is evident that when 
the power of digesting fat fails to be developed at its 
proper time, the defect must tell with double force upon 
children already suffering from deficient digestion of 
starch. 
The children who become the subjects of the kind of 
. wasting of which I am now treating are especially : (1) 
those who are suckled by mothers whose milk, though 
abundant in quantity, is extremely deficient in nutritive 
properties j (2) those who are brought up by hand ; and 
(3) those who, at a later period of childhood, have 
been subjected to similar chronic defects in diet. Now, 
it is especially when the mother's milk is poor in fat and 
lactin that the child becomes " dissatisfied" and ^^ crav- 
ing," and in the majority of cases it is this which leads 

i2 



116 FAT AND STAKCH 

to the introduction of farinaceous food, under the popular 
nursery belief that it is '^ satisfying ;" and, as Dr. Sonsino 
states, if this is given before the power of digesting starch 
is established, of course nothing but mischief can result. 

But organs, like individuals, do not rise to the full 
performance of their duties unless called upon by the 
necessity for their activity; and, as I pointed out in 1866 
(^^On Tuberculosis,*^ p. 40, second edition), ^'As the 
mother is deprived of fat-elements* by lactation, so is the 
child deprived of them by a persistence in a diet deficient 
in milk. In the case of the child thus deprived of fat, 
a double injury is done, first, by cutting ofi* the supply 
of fat-elements necessary for the protection of the tissues ; 
and secondly, by paralysittg the function of the pancreas 
by prolonged inactivity. '^ I venture to think that this is 
a point deserving far more attention than it has yet re- 
ceived.* It accounts in a great measure for the impossi- 
bility of restoring these ill-nourished wasted children by 
any kind of natural diet after they have been allowed 
to remain in a chronic state of defective nutrition. A 
child that has been long fed upon diet deficient in fat 
fails to develope the fat- digesting properties of the pan- 
creatic secretion, and thus, when proper food is at last 
presented, cannot make use of it for nutrition. 

It is probable, therefore, that it is due to this conjunc- 
tion of circumstances that these wretched cases of fatal 
infantile wasting occur : the food deficient in fat not only 
fails to nourish the child, but fails to develop the func- 
tion of the pancreas for the digestion of fat at a later 
period of life ; the craving of the child due to the defi- 
ciency of assimilated fat is met by starchy food, which it 
has not the power to digest, and which, if digested, can- 

* See Bome excellent papers "by Br. D. J. Brakenridge, "On the influence 
of a Dig«8ttre Habit, &g.*' ICedtoal Times and Gazette, June, 1868. 



IN THB NUTRITION OF CHILDEBN. 117 

not supply the place of fat. Thus it is literally starved 
from first to last of those elements of nutrition especially 
essential in early life. We cannot, therefore, be surprised 
that such cases have proved obstinately fatal, neither is it 
anything but what one might expect, a priori, that they 
get rapidly well when Pancreatic Emulsion of fat is added 
to their diet, for by this means they are enabled to assimi- 
late both fat and starch. 

Certainly, of all the satisfactory remedial effects of 
Pancreatic Emulsion, none equal the almost magical 
recoveries of some of these miserable wasted children. 
The cases in which I have seen it administered within 
tlie last eight years are too numerous to relate, and I will 
only briefly mention three of those which first especially 
excited my attention. 

1. A poor woman came to the Royal Hospital for 
Diseases of the Chest with a child presenting the most 
exaggerated features of emaciation of every part, except 
the abdomen which was large and hard. She was very 
excited at having succeeded in gaining admission, and 
explained in great haste that ^^ all she wanted was some 
Pancreatic Emulsion, which she had learned could be 
obtained at the Koyal Hospital.^^ She said the child 
had been even worse than I saw it, that everybody told 
her it was a hopeless case, and that she had carried it to 
her mother^s home in the West of England, where it 
appeared to be slowly dying, when a charitable visitor 
came in and gave her a bottle of emulsion, saying that 
he had seen just such a case cured by it. She gave the 
emulsion, and the child began to improve so wonderfully 
that she was able to bring it back to London, where it 
continued to mend till her bottle of emulsion was finished, 
when it rapidly fell back, and became nearly as bad as 
ever, before she could find out where to procure more of 



118 FAT AND STABCH 

the remedy. This she had just done, and hurried off to 
the Hospital. The child had diarrhoea, but she said she 
knew that would stop if I gave her emulsion, as it had 
done so before. I did as she asked — let her have as 
much emulsion as she wished, and the child got abso- 
lutely well. I have seen it this year, a well-grown, 
plump, hearty little girl. This woman has since had 
two other children, each of whom has in turn shown 
signs of marasmus like its elder sister; in one, when 
brought to me, the lungs presented small crepitation 
from end to end ; but both of these children were put 
upon emulsion at an early stage of their wasting, and 
made easy recoveries. 

2. Soon after these cases occurred, Dr. Dingley, of 
Argyll Square, consulted me about a little patient of his 
in Soho, who was wasting in the same way ; and as all 
the usual remedies, both in medicine and diet, including 
cod oil, had quite failed to arrest the downward progress 
of the case, we agreed to try the Pancreatic Emulsion. 
I did not see the case again, but Dr. Dingley has since in- 
formed me that from the time of commencing the Emul- 
sion the child began to improve, and steadily progressed 
till it got perfectly well ; and it remains well to the pre- 
sent day. Dr. Dingley was so impressed with the success 
of the remedy in this apparently hopeless case, that he 
tells me he has since resorted to the same treatment in all 
similar cases with equally satisfactory results. 

3. At the Oxford meeting of the British Medical 
Association, Dr. Langdon Down told me of a case that 
had made a great impression upon him, and it is espe- 
cially important as coming from a man of his large and 
intimate experience in all that relates to the affections of 
childhood. The following note from Dr. Down graphi- 
cally indicates the outline of the case : — 



IN THB NUTRITION OP CHILDBBN. 119 

^^ The patient at Beigate was seen by me in consulta- 
tion with Mr. Steele, in the spring of 1867. She was in 
the most attenuated condition I ever remember seeing. 
It appeared to be the extreme marasmus of mesenteric 
disease. The lungs were Healthy. The treatment had 
been most judicious and exhaustive. As something which 
had not been tried, I suggested the Pancreatic Emulsion. 
The improvement was coincident with the altered treat- 
ment and was very progressive. Five months after I was 
asked to see her by her father, to test whether I could 
recognise her. She was playing croquet, and I could 
hardly believe that the one pointed out to me was our 
patient, the change was so great. She has ever since had 
excellent health." 

These cases, which are well known to many persons 
besides myself, may appear somewhat " sensational," but 
they are only samples of numerous others which have oc- 
curred in my own practice. The fact is, that when these 
cases are properly selected for the treatment, they are all 
" sensational ;" for the rapidity with which it takes effect, 
and the completeness of the restoration to health of chil- 
dren who appeared to be hopelessly dying, is simply start- 
ling. 

I have proved over and over again that, whether in 
children or adults, no amount of milk or cream, however 
good, will do instead of Pancreatic Emulsion, and I have 
tried to discover why this should be. Milk, so far as this 
part of its composition is concerned, is simply an emulsion 
of fat ; and pancreatic emulsion, as I have shown in the 
paper to the Boyal Society already referred to, is not, as 
formerly supposed, a chemical combination, but a true 
emulsion. Why, then, does not milk answer as well ? I 
believe the explanation to be very simple, and that it turns 
upon the following points : — 



120 FAT AND STARCH 

1. The fineness of the particles of fat^ and the absence 
of albuminous envelope. 

2. The permanent character of the molecular mixture of 
fat and water. 

3. The proportion of fats having high melting points. 

(a) In my first paper on Pancreatic Emulsion (" Lan- 
cet/' September 10, 1864), I gave the measurements 
(made by the late Mr. Parrants, President of the Micros- 
copical Society) of the particles of fat in cod oil and beef 
fat emulsions, as then prepared for me ; showing that the 
majority of the particles in the cod- oil emulsion ranged 
from the 16,000th to the 1,200th of an inch in diameter, 
and those in the beef-fat emulsion from the 10,000th to 
the 2,500th of an inch ; and, according to Bowman {" Prac- 
tical Handbook of Medical Chemistry,^' p. 174), "The size 
of the globules in healthy milk varies from a mere point 
to about the 2,000th of an inch." 

Since I published Mr. Farrants' measurements, pan- 
creatic emulsion has been made by a much more equal and 
satisfactory process than at that time, and I have just ex- 
amined a chance specimen procured from Messrs. Savory 
and Moore, in which the large majority- of the particles of 
fat range from the 21,600th to the 14,400th of an inch in 
diameter, the prevailing size being the 18,000th of an 
inch ; while in a specimen of good new milk (cold), which 
I have also just examined, the large majority of the parti- 
cles of fat range from the 7,200th to the 8,600th of an 
inch in diameter, the smallest being the 10,800th. 

(6) The permanent character of the Pancreatic Emul- 
sion is very remarkable, far exceeding that of milk. It 
^^ differs entirely from all other kinds of emulsion of fatty 
matter, whether chemical or mechanical. All other emul- 
sions of fat are destroyed by ether, the fat being restored 
at once to its original condition. The influence exerted 



IN THE NUTRITION OF CHILDREN. 121 

by the pancreas upon fats, therefore, appears to operate 
by breaking up the aggregation of the crystals of the fat. 
It alters the molecular condition of the fat, mingling it 
with water in such a way, that even ether cannot separate 
the fat from the water. A permanent emulsion is thus 
formed^ ready to mix with a larger quantity of water 
whenever it may be added." {" Proceedings of the Royal 
Society," already referred to). 

(c) In the "Chemical News," September 4, 1868, I 
stated my reasons for believing in the importance of fats 
of high melting pointy, such as stearine, margarine, and 
palmatine, over those of low melting points, such as oleine, 
as elements of food and medicine ; although further ex- 
periments and investigations are still needed on this inte- 
resting subject. (See p. 108). 

Pancreatic Emulsion -of solid fat, consisting principally 
of stearine, margarine, and palmatine, is therefore quite a 
different thing from milk, the fat of which is principally 
oleine. 

Now, the nearest approach to a pancreatic emulsion is 
what may be called nascent milk, by which I mean milk 
just secreted — milk that flows from the mammary gland 
as it is formed, or, as mothers term it, " as the draught 
comes in.'^ In this the emulsification is finest and most 
perfect, but every minute that elapses after the milk is 
secreted deteriorates this perfection of emulsification, until, 
as we know, whether retained in the lactiferous ducts or in 
an artificial vessel, but especially in the latter, and when 
allowed to cool, the cream separates from the water of the 
milk, never again to be susceptible of the same emulsifi- 
cation with water in which it first existed, except under the 
influence of pancreatic juice, 

I submit that this is the secret of the superiority of lac- 
tation, and especially of lactation at the time " the draught 



122 FAT Am) BTABCH. 

comes in/' over every other kind of infant-feeding, whether 
in man or in the lower animals. It forms an important 
distinction between milk-diet, supplied by the natural pro- 
cess of suckling, and milk-diet administered artificially, 
and affords some reasonable colour to the old-standing 
belief in the eflBcacy of '^ new milk warm from the coV 
for delicate children, and to the remarkable recoveries re- 
corded in ancient times of old persons nourished by lacta- 
tion when everything else had failed. 



Chapter VI. 
FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

ADMINISTRATION OP ALCOHOL— PROPERTIES OP VARIOUS WINES 
— ^WINBS IN GENERAL — SPANISH WINES — GERMAN WINES — 
HUNGARIAN WINES GREEK WINES — ACID, GOUT, RHEUMA- 
TISM — ACID AND SUGAR IN SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS — ^ARDENT 
SPIRITS AND THEIR PECULIARITIES — ^ALCOHOL TABLE SHOW- 
ING THE ANALYSIS OP SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 



ADMINISTRATION OF ALCOHOL. 

According to. my own experience, based upon long and 
careful observation, an average-sized adult man taking 
moderate exercise may drink with advantage enough fer- 
mented liquors, each 24 hours, to represent from one to 
two ounces avoirdupois of absolute alcohol equivalent to 
from If to S^ ounces of proof spirit* — provided it be 
always diluted to the extent of 10 fluid ounces (half-a-pint 
imperial) of water or some other unfermented liquor to 
each ounce avoirdupois of absolute alcohol, and that it be 
taken when there is food in the stomach. (See '' Prelim- 
inary Remarks/' Chapter III.; and Appendix). 



THE PROPERTIES OF VARIOUS WINES. 

The subject of wine has of late years become so exten- 
sive—embracing so many considerations connected with 
such numerous varieties of wine from different parts of the 

• See Alcohol Table. 



124 PEOPBRTIBS OF VARIOUS WINES. 

world, — that I have thought it best to give the practical 
experience of several recognized authorities specially ac- 
quainted with different departments of the subject. 

I am glad, therefore, to be able to present the following 
matter from such reliable sources. 

The observations on Wines in Oeneral are dictated by 
my friend Mr. James L. Johnston, late Principal Inspec- 
tor of Customs Laboratories, who has, undoubtedly, more 
correct practical and scientific knowledge of fermented 
Uquors than any other person in this country. 

For the account of the wines of Spain I am indebted to 
Mr. F. W. Cosens the celebrated Spanish wine merchant. 

The description of the Wines of Germany and of the 
distinctive medicinal properties attributed to them in the 
districts where they are grown, has been kindly furnished 
by Mr. M. A. Verkriizen of Fell Street, City, who is well 
known to have devoted much time to this subject. 

Mr. Denman, of Piccadilly, the principal introducer of 
the Wines of Greece, and the author of several works on 
wine, has favoured me with the concise statement of the 
medicinal properties attributed to these wines by the nu- 
merous medical men who have communicated to him their 
experience. 

For the account of the wines of Hungary I am indebted 
to Mr. Max : Greger of Mincing Lane, City, who first in- 
troduced the pure Hungarian wines into this country, and 
who has so creditably maintained his character both for a 
scientific and practical knowledge of the wines of his 
native land, and for the conscientiousness with which he 
attends to the orders of medical men, when they consider 
it important that only the purest and most mature wines 
shall be supplied to their patients. 

I give the statements of these several authorities near- 
ly in their own words, and they are responsible for them ; 



WINBS IN GENERAL. 125 

hnty SO far as it is practicable for one person to do so^ I 
have endeavoured to test the correctness of their opinions 
by my own experience. 

I have only further to add, that there is no department 
of commerce in which ^^ commercial immorality" is so 
atrociously and so easily practised as in the wine trade, 
the most professed connoiseurs being often the most 
" taken in ;" and, that I know of no protection against the 
misfortune of drinking half poisonous trash instead of 
genuine wholesome wine, except that of cautiously select- 
ing a wine merchant of known honour and probity, and 
then leaving to him the entire responsibility of choosing 
your wines. 



WINES IN GENERAL. 

In the economy of nature, wine has always held a pro- 
minent position. Com, and wine, and oil, represent the 
highest agricultural development of the vegetable world — 
the com and oil to nourish and sustain, and the wine to 
invigorate, refresh, and solace life. — In considering the 
subject of diet, therefore, whether for health or sickness, 
so important an element cannot be ignored ; seeing that, 
while in health it contributes largely to the enjoyment of 
life, in sickness it is a powerful auxiliary to the Physician, 
more particularly under certain morbid conditions affecting 
both body and mind. In all ages, in wine-producing 
countries, especially, where it is best known and appreci- 
ated, wine, rationally used, has been regarded as a valu- 
able means of promoting health, of prolonging life, and of 
adding to its enjoyment ; but the penalties which follow 
the abuse of any of those gifts, provided and intended, by 
the Creator for the benefit of his creatures, as certainly 



126 WINES TN GENERAL. 

follow its misuse. This requires no argument to demon- 
strate, it is within the knowledge of every thinking obser- 
ver, nor does it furnish any reason for the disuse of wine, 
for there are few of the most valuable medicaments which 
are not poisonous if used without discretion. With these 
prefatory remarks I will proceed to consider briefly the 
constitution and varieties of wine, its natural and commer- 
cial alcoholic force, and its hygienic properties. 

Strictly defined, wine is the fermented juice of the 
grape. But this theoretical definition is not quite carried 
out in practice. When perfectly fermented, wine becomes 
what is technically termed " dry,^' meaning that the whole 
of its sugar has been converted into alcohol, within certain 
limits, however, inasmuch as the production of alcohol, at 
a certain point arrests the fermentation and further pro- 
duction of spirit, leaving a margin of unconverted sugar 
(where that constituent is in excess) to enhance the rich- 
ness of the wine, as in the instance of the celebrated Sau- 

* 

terne known as Chateau D'Yquem. For the same reason 
extraneous spirit added to the fermenting ^'must^^ has 
the eflFect of arresting further action, and retaining the 
unconverted sugar as an element of richness in the liquid. 
This is the course followed, with recent modifications and 
exceptions, however, in the manufacture of the Port wine 
of commerce, and also of the red Tarragona wines of Spain 
intended to imitate and compete with Port in the English 
market. 

Some wines are only partially fermented, in consequence 
of the over-richness of the " must^^ through the elimina- 
tion of a considerable proportion of its watery constituent 
by natural or artificial means ; as in the instance of the 
Essenz or Ausbruch wines of Hungary of which the Im- 
perial Tokay, a wine of wonderful richness, is the highest 
type. Others again are not fermented at all, but the 



WINES IN GENERAL. 127 

grape juice is simply inspissated or concentrated by slow 
boiling or simmering, as in the Tent wine made at Rota 
in Spain, and used generally for communion purposes in 
the Anglican Church. Of course under such circumstances 
this is merely a syrup or conserve of grape juice, and does 
not contain a particle of spirit in its natural state ; but as 
it is customary to add fix)m 20 to 30 per cent, of spirit to 
it. by way of preservative, it is put upon much the same 
footing as fermented wine, in respect of alcohol. 

Effervescing or sparkling wines are the last variety. In 
them the fermentative action is not only arrested but im- 
prisoned as it were, to form the ^' mousse,^^ as it is called, 
which is at once their peculiarity and their charm. 

Dry wines, whether still or sparkling, are preferable to 
all other kinds from a medical point of view, chiefly on 
account of their greater freedom from the objectionable 
unconverted sugar and their more easy digestion, in ad- 
dition to which their quality is invariably higher, as beiug 
under no disguise. 

In almost every other respect the grand characteris- 
tics of wine are common to all, subject to certain modi- 
fications arising from climate or soil, from the latter of 
which, especially, some very important hygienic qualities 
are derived. 

Colour is a distinction of little importance to. the pre- 
sent question ; it is obtained from the skin of the grape, 
when the bruised fruit is fermented in place of the ex- 
pressed juice ; red or violet when the black grape is used, 
from the blue colouring matter of the skins, and brownish- 
yellow in the case of the white grape, from the apothema, 
which becomes darker by exposure to the air. But in 
many cases colour is an artificial production, notably in 
the case of brown sherries, in which it is owing to an ad- 
mixture of boiled wine called vino de color ; the normal 



128 WINES IN GENERAL. 

colour of pure sherry, for example, is a pale greenish or 
brownish-yellow, deepening with age. For these reasons 
pale sherries are to be preferred to golden or brown, 
especially as being purer. 

The natural strength of wine is, within a limited range, 
from 18 to 30 per cent, proof spirit* (10*5 to 17*25 alco- 
hol) which is rarely if ever exceeded. French Claret is a 
type of the lowest, and the wines of the Pyrenees Orien- 
tale and Spain generally, of the highest strength. 

The majority, however, occupy the middle place, and 
comprise Sauternes, Burgundies red and white, the wines 
of the Rhine, the Moselle and the Danube, the Italian 
Peninsula (except Marsala) and the Grecian Archipelago, 
which are all within 20 and 25 per cent, proof spirit (11*5 
to 14'5 alcohol). These wines, as a rule, are brought to 
market in a nearly pure state, or with such inconsiderable 
additions of spirit as to be of little consequence. 

It may be taken for granted that no sparkling or 
eflFervescing wines can ever exceed the strength of 24 per 
cent, proof spirit (13'5 alcohol) ; their real variety, apart 
from the different sorts of wine employed, consists in the 
different proportions of sugar added as "liqueur'' in the 
course of manufacture, and which varies from the pure 
or " brut'' wine up to 18 and 20 per cent., the general 
average in the English market is midway, about 10 per 
cent., although the demand for the " dry" kinds is greatly 
on the increase. In prescribing these wines therefore 
the medical man is dealing with known forces as far as 
alcohol is concerned ; but it is very different in respect of 
Port, Sherry, Madeira, and Marsala. 

The Port wine of commerce is never under 35 per cent, 
proof spirit (20 alcohol), the average being 38*5 up to 42 

* Proof spirit is the ordinary potable spirit of commerce and is equivalent 
to nearly equal parts of alcohol and water. — (See Alcohol table). 



WINES IN GENERAL. 129 

proof spirit (22 to 24 alcohol) ; while Sherry, Madeira, and 
Marsala, although commencing a trifle lower, or at about 
31*5 proof spirit (18 alcohol) advance almost if not quite 
as far. 

Thus a rich vintage Port wine at 42 per cent., the usual 
strength of high-class Port wine, must have had 33 per 
cent, of proof spirit, or J of its bulk of ordinary brandy 
added to bring it to that condition.* 

The same may be said of the cheaper red Tarragona 
wines, lately introduced, which bid fair to supersede 
the real Port wines in Hospital practice. In its pure 
state this is a generous wine of considerable natural body 
and strength, and likely, if its use were encouraged, to be« 
come a favourite and wholesome beverage with the mil- 
lion. 

Although Sherries and other white Spanish wines are 
largely fortified, in general, for the English market, there 
are, amongst the drier sorts, Montilla, Amontillado, Man- 
zanilla, and the lighter kinds termed Vino de paste, many 
which would only be injured by being fortified, and are 
consequently — the higher classes in particular — usually 
exempt from that debasing operation. Some of these are 
unequalled for sanitary purposes, especially in dyspeptic 
cases where the bitter principle (in Amontillado not unlike 
that of an orange-pip) appears to act as a toiic. 

No wine has been so extensively imitated— the usual 
penalty of admitted excellence — as so-called Sherry; 
Hamburg especially is facile princeps in manufacturing an 
article called Elbe Sherry, largely recommended in certain 
quarters, composed principally of Elbe water and potato- 
spirit flavoured in an ingenious manner with various ex- 
tracts and ethers too numerous to mention, but which 

* Three glasses of such wine, therefore, represent more than one glass 
of ordinary Brandy. 

K 



180 SPANISH WINES. 

should be sluumed as poison under whatever auspices it 
may present itself. There is scarcely a white wine vended 
which is not called Sherry and courts consumption under 
that popular and attractive pseudonym. 

It would be out of place in a work of this descrip- 
tion to show the different means by which the natural 
characteristics of wine are artificially heightened, when 
weak, or supplied, when altogether wanting — such as the 
elder flower on the Bhine and Moselle, the chamomile 
in Spain, and the black currant leaf and rasp-berry in 
Prance to give ^' bouquet,'^ the elder-berry, blackberry 
and bil-berry to give colour, in Portugal and Spain. 
These are harmless, compared with the abominably per- 
nicious practice of " fortifying*' beyond what is necessary 
for purposes of preservation, where potato or beet-spirit, 
or some such cheap and nasty production is the agent em- 
ployed. 



SPANISH WINES. 

Of all those wines possessing distinct characteriatics, 
and which impress the palate in a marked degree, none 
is more prominent, in the opinion of Mr. Cosens, than that 
one of Spanish growth, known under the generic name of 
Sherry, and which is so-called from being produced near 
the town of Jerez de la Frontera in Andalusia, around 
which cluster the oldest and most famous vineyards. 

Of late years since railway communication has opened 
up the interior of Spain to the seaboard, a great impulse 
has been given to viticulture around Seville, the MontiUa 
district near Cordova, and other outlying localities; the 
wines bemg light, genuine, and delicate, are in general 
favour as dinner beverages at moderate prices. 



SPANISH WINES. 131 

The area prodacing the veritable Jerez has been some- 
what extended, since Dr. Gorman, in 1851, published his 
statistical tables of the annual yield which he gave as 
52,000 butts for the whole district. 

There is, probably, little doubt that the famous '' Me- 
thuen treaty,^^ while it secured a temporary monopoly 
for the wines of Spain and Portugal, induced a much 
more careful cultivation, and consequently a yield of 
superior wine ; so much so, that since then Sherry has 
become a household wine as much by force of quality as 
by fiscal favouritism. Of course the usual penalty of ex- 
cellence has to be paid, and Gape and Elbe Sherries have 
started into notoriety as cheap imitations, damaging the 
reputation of the pure produce of Jerez, in the estimation 
at least of the ill-informed. 

From old records still preserved amongst the archives 
at Jerez, we fiiid that so early as 1268 vineyards are 
named as existing contiguous to the " Gartuja monastery^^ 
on the banks of the Guadalete which flows past the Portal, 
or Port of Jerez, a short distance from the town itself. It 
is also stated that in the year 1483, ^^no English or 
Breton ships have arrived this year in consequence of the 
war with the Biscayens," and in an old print of the time 
of the sack of Gadiz under Essex, men are seen carrying 
butts of wine slung by ropes suspended from their shoul- 
ders, to a boat on the beach, a vessel apparently of 
English build, lying at anchor in the Bay, the casks are 
of precisely the same sh^pe and character as those now in 
use. 

There is no doubt that prior to 1483 the wines of Spain 
were consumed and appreciated in England. In 1419 
William Horrold was placed in the pillory for counterfeit- 
ing and vending " olde and feble Spaynishe wyn for good 
and true Jlomeney.^ 






132 SPANISH WINES. 

This same counterfeiting, for a long period fostered by 
the half duty charged upon Cape wines, has no doubt led 
many medical men into error as to the exact hygienic 
eflTects of Sherry. 

Judging from continental practice there are many mala- 
dies for which genuine and generous wine of the Sherry 
type is the only recognised and approved curative stimu- 
lant. 

A large quantity of really superior Sherry fiiids its way 
annually into consumption in England, in fact all the 
costly and rare growths are exported to this country. 

Domecq, Garvey, Gonzalez, Cosens, and others, devote 
themselves almost exclusively to the growing, rearing, 
and exportation of the produce of the oldest and best cul- 
tivated vineyards of the " termino of Jerez.^^ These wines 
can be procured in a perfectly genuine state, and in the 
highest perfection, through the established channels of 
supply — wine merchants of credit and position. 

Undoubtedly, good, sound, wholesome, young Sherry 
may always be procured at a moderate price ; but those 
who look for high character and rare excellence must 
bear in mind that great resources are required to enable 
the shipper to breed fine wine ; much time, skill, and pa- 
tience, as well as technical aptitude are absolutely neces- 
sary to secure a favourable result. Fine Sherry must, 
therefore, always remain more or less costly ; at the same 
time excellent wine may be procured at a moderate price, 
while " cheap and wholesome,'^ i^ only, as a rule, another 
name for dear because inferior. 

A teaspoonful of water in a glass of ordinary Sherry, 
will render it grateful to the delicate digestion of most 
dyspeptics. 

The great rage for cheap wines since the ilitroduction 
of Claret at a low duty, has undoubtedly stimulated the 



SPANISH WINES. 133 

importation from tlie South of Spain of immature wines; 
such, improperly fermented, carelessly prepared, and of 
inferior growths have disgusted many consumers; and the 
medical profession have noted their baneful effects from a 
hygienic point of view. 

Ford says in his Handbook, speaking of Manzanilla, 
'^ drink it ye dyspeptics,^' but as there are wines and 
wines, so are there Manzanillas and Manzanillas, no wine 
requires more time and skill to grow and rear, or, pro- 
bably in its immature state, is more injurious to a delicate 
stomach. 

A great deal of controversy has at times arisen as to 
whether the sprinkling of grapes with a very small quan- 
tity of gypsum is desirable or not ; some assert that the 
lime in the sack, so feelingly alluded to by Falstaff, arose 
from this same sprinkling, especially as there is but little 
doubt that up to the early years of the 18th century, the 
" Sherris, sack'' of history was quite a new wine exported 
from Spain almost as Must ; hence all the empirical re- 
cipes given in such books, as the mysteries of Vintners" 
(1699), Ac. 

With reference to this sprinkling of gypsum practised 
since the days of Pliny, its sole use is probably to coun- 
teract the effects of an over-production of albuminous 
matter dangerous to the wine during the years required to 
ripen and perfect it. 

Genius in the management of Sherry has its value, un- 
doubtedly, but it must be supplemented by training. 

Condition, time for bottling, refining, all these require 
long and patient study ; the result being, from skill and 
good management, bottled sunshine, and, from the con- 
trary, Dafl^s Elixir ! 

The Eed wines of Spain are annually gaining favour, 
they are ripe at an earlier age than the White and possess 



134 GERMAN WINES. 

dietetic and hygienic properties peculiarly their own. At 
the Claret duty of Is. per gallon instead of 2«. 6d. they 
would probably become the Eed wines of the million. 



GERMAN WINES. 

German Wines when obtained in their native purity 
contain medicinal and health-promoting qualities of great 
value. 

Foremost in medicinal respects, Mr. Verkruzen says, 
we should consider the Moselle and Saar Wines ; they 
are the lightest and contain the smallest proportion of 
alcohol and Saccharine matter, and are consequently not 
only the most digestible, but, from the considerable pro- 
portion of vinous and apple acid they contain, are power- 
ful promoters of digestion; they act most beneficially 
upon the secreting and excreting o'rgans and are great 
purifiers of the blood ; whilst their stimulating power is of 
the mildest character, though most decidedly perceptible, 
as in the coldest weather they difiuse tlyoughout the sys- 
tem a comforting sense of warmth. 

Dr. Franz Meurer, Eoyal Prussian Resident Physician 
by Government appointment at Zell on Moselle, speaks in 
the highest terms of the curative and health-promoting 
qualities of these wines, as the result of his thirty years' 
practical experience. 

He recommends them as most valuable in cases of Rheu- 
matism, Gout, Dropsy, Stone, Gravel, Scorbutic and blood 
diseases generally. 

In certain cases those younger and lighter wines which 
possess a larger proportion of vinous and apple acid are 
most beneficial; whereas, in other cases, fuller bodied 



OKKKAN wnns. 135 

wines of greater age and possessing a larger degree of 
alcohol {cUuxiys ruUural and not cMed to the wine) and a 
less proportion of acidity^ of whatever nature it may be^ 
are most beneficial. It is a noteworthy fact that the 
Moselle and Saar wines^ whilst containing more vinous 
and apple acid than other wines^ not only do not soar the 
stomach like the sweet wines but actually counteract acid- 
ity of the stomach by promoting its healthy action. 

In cases where Ports^ Sherries^ Clarets and Rhine wines 
produce acidity^ the Moselle wines frequently counteract it 
firom the extraordinary lightness of their character and the 
mild and gentle nature of their appetising power^ which 
gently stimulates without irritating. As daily bever- 
ages no wines are more suitable. The higher class of 
these wines are the most recommendable in dyspeptic 
cases. 

The principal growths are^- 

Wiltinger^ Zeltinger^ Branneberger^ Piesporter^ Josephs- 
hofer^ Grunhauser^ Scharzberger and Scharzhofberger^ all 
white taines. 

These may be described as strongly diuretic and mildly 
laxative; the higher class^ containing the least amount of 
acidity^ might be considered^ perhaps^ sedative^ as they are 
wonderfully composing and comforting. 

The Shine and Palatinate wines^ are of a stronger and 
more spirituous character than the Moselle and Saar 
wines^ and consequently are more generous^ yet amongst 
these there are many equally light and similarly refresh- 
ing. 

Excepting in the case of the lighter sorts^ we should 
recommend greater moderation in the enjoyment of these 
than of the Moselle wines. 

Amongst the finest white growths are the following : 



136 GERMAN WIKS8. 

RhBINOAUBB. PALATIirATX!. 

Marcobruiyivbb, (light and very Deidssheimeb, (fine, full, rather 

wholesorre, diuretic). sweet wine). 

RuDESHEiMEB, (full-hodied stout FoBSTEB, (soft delicate wine, de- 
wine, generous). licious bouquet). 

JoHAiryiSBEBOEB Cabiiiet, (fine, RuPPEBTSBBBGEB, (very fine full- 
aromatic wine). bodied wine, frequently almost 

Stbinberoeb Cabinbt, (very fine spicy), 
grand wine, full-bodied). 

To say that any of the wines just named are specially 
diuretic, laxative, sedative, tonic, &c., would be hardly to 
represent them correctly, as they all possess these quali- 
ties more or less according to the quality, vintage, age, 
he,, &c., &c. 

There are twenty or more distinction^ of quality to be 
had in each growth, containing more or less alcohol, 
saccharine, vinous acid, fixed acid, volatile acid, tannin, 
&c., &c., according to the nature of the host of circum- 
stances which have operated upon the production of the 
wine from the commencement to the completion of the 
process and which difier with every season. 

When invalids require wines for certain cases and ob- 
jects they ought, after having consulted their medical 
adviser as to the nature or character of the wine that suits 
their case, to entrust their order to a wine merchant who 
understands his business and who is thoroughly conver- 
sant with the nature of the diflferent wines constituting 
his stock. As a sedative he will give them a fine dry clean 
old neutral wine, no matter whether a Deidesheimer or 
Forster ; as a diuretic he will give them a wine containing 
much vinous and fruit (apple) acid; as a stomachic he 
will select a wine having a considerable proportion of 
tannin; and to the low spirited and down-cast he will give 
a fine wholesome dry and sparkling wine. 



GBRMAN WINES. 137 

Amongst the Red Wines of Germany we have several 
excellent sorts, suitable especially for convalescents and as 
family wines. Assmannshauser and especially Oberingel- 
heimer from the Ehine, and the fine Walporzheimer wines 
from the valley of the Ahr, are fine stomachic wines and 
great blood enrichers ; in anaemic and other constitutions 
exhausted by debility, and also in persons of the phos- 
phatic diathesis these wines are recommended. 

Of the Sparkling wines of Germany, a pure Moselle, 
without muscatel and other artificial flavouring, is the 
most wholesome, and in cases of weak digestion I should 
consider such a wine decidedly preferable to Champagne. 
I have seen wind on the stomach which had almost con- 
stantly troubled the sufferer for three or four weeks to an 
alarming degree, entirely and effectually cured (so that 
during three weeks subsequently no recurrence whatever 
of the malady was perceived) simply by the use of a bottle 
of fine sparkling Moselle and ^ lb. dry, hard, short, bis- 
cuits taken about four hours and a half after luncheon ; 
the stomach was gently brought into action by the wine 
aud biscuits, the wind was expelled, the whole frame be- 
came warm through, and a sense of extreme comfort 
ensued. By gently acting upon the stomach, and subse- 
quently upon the bowels, liver, and kidneys, the wine no 
doubt removed to a great extent the causes which produced 
the wind and hence the relief experienced for so long. 

When fatigued, especially in hot weather, there is no 
better reviver as a glass of half soda water and half still 
Hock or fine Moselle. 



HUNGARIAN WINES. 



Mr, Max : Greger says, he can speak with the utmost 
confidence of the medicinal properties of the different 



138 HUNQABIAN WINKS. 

kinds of Hungarian wines, not only from many years of 
personal experience in the districts where they are grown, 
but from reports that have been forwarded to him, in 
some hundreds of letters, by medical men who have pre- 
scribed these wines in their practice. 

In prescribing Hungarian wines, it must be borne in 
mind that they are far richer in grape-sugar, and in con- 
sequent alcohol, than any of the French and German 
wines, they therefore require a year or two longer to finish 
fermentation, that is to say to accomplish their maturity. 
It is, therefore, of the greatest importance to obtain these 
wines from such sources as may leave no doubt that they 
are first, genuine , and secondly, matured, 

Hungarian wines, generally speaking, are full in body, 
and whilst most other cheap light wines will produce a 
feeling of coldne&s, a glass of good Hungarian wine will 
produce a sensation of warmth all over the body. 

In anaemia and chlorosis, and in exhaustion from loss 
of blood, especially by women after childbirth and in 
chronic nose-bleeding, great benefit is derived from the 
use of the Hungarian Eed wine, Carlowitz. It is also 
administered with advantage in bilious disorders, slug- 
gish action o£ the liver and haamorrhagic afiections. 

Ofner Auslese is prescribed with excellent effect in 
diarrhoea, and if the case is urgent half an ounce of cinna- 
mon and an ounce of cane sugar are added to one bottle 
of wine, which, if well boiled together for half an hour and 
taken hot at bed time, will produce a very agreeable 
soothing effect on the bowels. In Hungary, Ofner Aus- 
lese is the household remedy for diarrhoea, especially 
during cholera epidemics. 

Amongst the white wines of Hungary, Somlau should 
be selected as a substitute for the, so-called, dry sherries 
of Spain; and GEdenburg and Ruster Ausbruch (dry). 



GREEK WINES. 139 

where the tartaric acid contained in all red wines seems 
objectionable. 

The Raster is especially valuable in convalescence from 
exhausting diseases^ sleeplessness and weak digestion^ and 
in Hungary is considered a valuable sedative in neuralgia; 
while the CEdenburg finds especial favour with gouty 
persons, many of whom have been unable to touch any 
other kind of wine. It has distinctly diuretic properties 
attributed to it. 

The different kinds of Hungarian sparkling wines, are 
pleasingly exhilarating, leaving but little after depression 
even when they have been taken to excess. They, there- 
fore, constitute a satisfactory stimulant where exhilaration 
rather than alcoholic stimulation is desired. 

The finest Crown Tokay is an extraordinarily restorative 
wine, spreading warmth throughout the body to the tips 
of the toes and fingers, and is therefore of singular value 
to the old and feeble. It is, however, very rarely found 
of genuine quaUty, and when genuine is of great cost. 



GREEK WINES. 

The following are the leading properties, in a Dietetic 
point of view, attributed to the wines of Greece. 

PROPEETT. 

Stimulant and exhilarating. 
Restorative and supporting. 
Tonic and restorative. 
Astringent and blood-making. 
Refreshing and gently stimulating. 

i> n ti 

Tonic and stimulant. 
Restorative and nutritive. 



WIKB. 


COLOUR 


St. Elie 


White 


Thera 


White 


Santorin 


Red 


Kephesia 


Red 


a 


White 


Patras 


White 


)* 


Red 


Como 


Red 



140 ACID, GOUT, RHEUMATISM. 



ACID, GOUT, RHEUMATISM, FROM FERMENTED LIQUORS. 

The question most frequently requiring consideration 
with regard to the selection of alcoholic beverages, is their 
tendency to encourage acidity and to promote gout or 
rheumatism. For practical purposes, these three ques- 
tions may be merged in the second, viz., their gouty or 
non-gouty tendency. 

From long and careful consideration, both theoreti- 
cally and practically, of the production and composition 
of fermented liquors and their effects upon digestion 
and disease, I have come to the conclusion that alco- 
holic drinks favour the tendency to gout, or actually 
produce it, in proportion to the quantity they con- 
tain of saccharine and albuminoid ingredients in which 
the processes of fermentation and decomposition have 
commenced but have remained uncompleted. This head 
will especially include those full-bodied ^^ fruity'^ wines, 
in which the course of fermentation has been stopped by 
added spirit, or in which it is incomplete from want of 
age; (see p. 126), and malt liquors and cider, in which the 
process of fermentation is never thoroughly completed by 
the time they are considered in good condition for drink- 
ing. 

The least gouty alcoholic drinks, are those spirits in 
which no unfermented compounds are present, and those 
wines in which vinous fermentation has become complete. 
But unfortunately these wines cannot be borne by acid 
stomachs, because complete fermentation of wines involves 
the production of much acid. If they are taken, there- 
fore, they must be mixed with enough alkaline mineral 
water to neutralise their excess of acid. 

It is important to remember that although a fluid may 
contain much acid, and therefore be unfit for some sto- 



ABDBNT SPIRITS AND THEIR PECULIARITIES. 141 

macfas^ it will not generate acid if it is free from saccharine 
matter ; whereas a fluid containing saccharine matter wiU 
generate acid although it may not contain any. 



ARDENT SPIBITS AND THEIB PEOULIAEITIES. 

Brandy makes people nervous, Gin weakens, Eum and 
Whiskey produce biliousness. Whiskey is the least objec- 
tionable. When Whiskey produces biliousness. Bum, 
which has been made hot and then cooled, may be tried 
instead. 

The prominent objection to all ardent spirits, is, that 
ihey injure the lining of the digestive canal, and produce 
diseases of the liver and kidneys, llie best means of pre- 
venting these dangerous effects, is, free dilution with some 
nnfermented liquid. None should be taken neat, and 
when mixed with water or other fluids they should be 
well incorporated by pouring many times from one vessel 
to another; otherwise, the unfermented liquid will be 
separated from the alcohol in the stomach, and the objects 
of dilution will be frustrated after all. 



142 
ALCOHOL TABLE. 



Tb, .^H, of Ab«,u.. Alcobo, (.p...^,..v. 1^ .;^^;FM0 =nd =, =..id di.olv.d. i. .™,-r^ j 


SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 

■ThctTtophcfArdcnlSpi 
ril> IS arhiiraiy, the sKenglh 


lu'mn shows 
quor which 


Cmrbon 
in'ouid 


One imiKrial 


,.,„.,. 


Extract 

RVUiVd, 


Crhon. 


m 
i-a 

4-S 


jUcoHoI 

'£1' 

47-1 
46-0 

"22^ 
12-0 
16-0 
22-0 
20-6 
18'3 
14-5 
19 6 
20-6 
120 
12-0 
11-6 _ 

la.o' 

12-0 
12-0 

.13-5 
14-6 
12-0 
10-3 
11-5 
10-8 


spint. 

IQO 
84-B 
82-4 
78-8 
e0-6 
386 
21-0 
38-0 
38-6 
88 
320 
25-3 
340 
360 
ai'O 
210 
20'0 
21-0 
21-0 
210 

23-6 
26-3 

21-0 
180 
20-0 
18-0 

16-S 

lis 

9-6 
140 

87 

9-9 

9-4 
91 

lo-e 

10-3 

6-4 




Proof Spirit . . . 

WhiBllJ 

Brandy 

Hum 

fPort 

Lisbon (White) . . 
Bncellafl .... 

Madeira 

Sherry (of commerce) 
„ MoniillaandJ 

Amontillado S 
„ Natural. . . 

Maraala 

Bontrillon (Masdon). 
Buriiundy .... 
Chablia (Montraohet) 

Claret 

Sauteme (Chatenn }_ 

d'Yqnem . - ) 

Moaclle 

Champagne and") 
other effervEBcing >■ 
orsparklingvrineB) 
Hungarian Red 1 
(CarlonilE) S 
^hiie I 
(Somlan) . . S 

Tolay (cs"^!)' J 

Constantia, (Red \ 

and White) . S 


a-26 

2-6 

J7 

2-8 
8-2 


4'3 

6-0 
6S 
6-fi 

10-2 
7-8 
ira 

110 
lOO 
lO'l 

ill 

8-6 
23-6 
27-0 
33'4 

7-8 

20'i 
33-3 

11-3 
21'3 
SS-3 
7'8 
7-8 
7-7 
40-0 


■t 

■2 

■a 

3-5 
O'S 
07 
1-0 

I'l 

0-9 

11 

0-6 
0-5 

3'5 
0'5 

2'3 
06 

0-4 
8-5 
a'6 
3'4 
0-8 


4S 
4-0 

, 3-8 
8-6 
20 
2-S 

1-8 
20 
20 
2-6 
17 
2-4 

11 

26 
10 
0-8 

1-S 
0-9 

07 

2-6 
2-E 
2-4 
0-6 


0-9 
9-0 
7-3 
6-8 
6-6 
68 
9-0 
7-5 
6-3 
163 
19-0 
Ifl-3 
00 
13-4 

i5'a 

12-6 

JS'O 
90 
90 
90 


5-5 
16 1 

SB 
4-6 
S'6 
E'S 
4-4 
80 
1-3 
2-3 

lai 

2'E 
2-0 

11-0 
2-6 
1-8 
16-1 
16-0 
16-8 


;iTi 




64-0 


1 


Lie, Burton, Baas. Ms. 

" Pai4 ", 603.' 
„ India [Gardner^ ) 

(■Scotch 1 
„ Bottlcd-J(Edin.)'^ 

;; Famllj l8. gallon . 
„ "Fonrpenuj", . 
tout, Dublin, (bottled) 
,, London , . . 


13-5 
19-0 
23-9 
19-0 
26-0 
33-7 
W-9 
2S-4 


ISO 

17-6 

13-1 
20-6 
22-2 
220 
230 
"i67 
183 


a-0 

1-6 
0-6 
2-4 
1-4 
1-1 
1-2 
11 
17 
1-6 


1-6 

0-7 

1-6 

i-o 

0-9 
0-9 
0-8 

I'a 
11 


157 
9-6 
7'0 
8-0 

11-4 
fi'6 
5'4 
67 

6-9 


101 
8-9 
6-6 
6-6 
80 
6-0 
57 
6-4 
6-3 
61 

fi-g 

3-7 


20-8 
21-6 


'orter, London . . . 






i-a 


0-8 


6-6 



* SOFImdoz. =X Imperial pint (.meuQie). 16<w. noiid. = lp(iDii(l(weigkt.} 



Chapter VII. • 

DISINFECTION. 

MEDIA BY WHICH THE CATCHING DISEASES ARE COMMUNICATED — 
MEANS FOR PREVENTING INPECTION AND CONTAGION — DI- 
RECTIONS FOR THE SICK ROOM AND ATTENDANTS — PRE- 
CAUTIONS TO BE USED BY DOCTORS MODE OE CLEANSING 

APARTMENTS AFTER ILLNESS — PROPER METHODS OF USING 
CHLORIDE OP LIME, CARBOLIC ACID, AND CONDY's FLUID. 

Infectious and Contagious (catching) diseases — Scarlet 
fever, Diptheria, Small-pox, Measles, Typhus, Chicken- 
pox, Relapsing fever. Puerperal fever. Whooping-cough, 
Mumps, &c., — are communicated principally by the follow- 
ing media : — 

1. The breath. 

2. The secretions and excretions. 

a. The saliva. 

b. The perspiration. 

c. The urine. 

d. The evacuations frojn the bowels, 

e. The sputa. 

3. The skin of the body ; especially the dead peeling 
skin and the powdered skior which adhere to clothing and 
are wafted about in the air. 

4. The body-clothes. 

5. The bed-clothing. 

6. Discharges from eruptions, abscesses, wounds, &c. 

7. The hair. 

8. The walls, floors, and furniture of apartments. 

It is probable that no infectious or contagious disease 
Would spread if all these media were promptly disinfected. 



144 DISINFECTION. 

The diflSculty lies, not in disinfecting any one of them 
when it is specially submitted to us, for that is easily 
done, but in keeping up such a rigorous system of disin- 
fection around the sick person, that none of these media 
shall escape disinfection ; for common sense tells us that 
if only one escapes, the protection from infection may be 
lost. It is evident that the disinfection of the secretions 
and excretions must be performed as they leave the body, 
so that the air may not be infected during their passage. 
For this reason the disinfectants put into spitting pots, 
urinals and bed pans should be Volatile, like Qilorine 
and Carbolic Acid, so that an atmosphere of the disinfect- 
ant may rise from the utensils while they are being 
used. I, therefore, advise for these purposes Chloride of 
Lime and water, or Carbolic Acid; and they have the ad- 
vantage of continuing to give off their disinfecting princi- 
ples after the contents of the utensils are thrown down the 
drains. 

For most other purposes Condy's fluid will suffice ; it is 
clean, free from offensive taste or smell and not poisonous. 
It is not volatile but it disinfects whatever comes in con- 
tact with it. The air of a room, therefore, may be disin- 
fected to a great extent by freely dispersing Condy's fluid 
with a spray producer. Clothes can be disinfected by 
being soaked in it. The skin can be disinfected by being 
washed with it. Sponges can be disinfected by being soak- 
ed in it, but sponges are dangerous spreaders of infection, 
and it is much better to use pieces of cloth, which can be 
burnt, and in cleansing wounds to irrigate them with a 
syringe. Linen and other washing materials can be dis- 
infected by boiKng, but they should be previously put into 
Condy^s fluid or diluted Carbolic Acid directly they are 
done with and kept in it for about two hours, otherwise 
they may spread infection before they are boiled. For all 



DISINFECTION. 145 

these purposes (Wbolic Acid is most efficient but its smell 
is objectionable. 

Whatever is not susceptible of boiling but will bear 
baking can be disinfected by being submitted to a tem- 
perature of from 212° to 250° in an oven^ and for greater 
safety a little Carbolic Acid should be put into the oven at 
the time. 

1 . When a catching disease occurs in a house the first 
thing to be done is — to select a room for the patient as 
much isolated as possible from the rest of the house ; a 
room through which no one has to pass and by which 
there are as few passers as possible ; the top of the house 
is best as a rule. The room should have a window open- 
ing directly into the fresh air and an open chimney and 
fire-place, and it should be supplied with not less than 
1000 cubic feet of fresh air every hour for each occupant 
whether patient or attendant. (See Chapter I. '^ Ventila- 
tion, Ac.^O Whenever practicable a second room should 
be set apart, near the patient^s room, for the attendants 
to cook and take meals in and to sleep in when ofi* duty. 

2. The second thing to be done is — to remove from the 
room or rooms selected every thing that cannot be washed, 
boiled, baked or burnt, and then to hang over the outside 
of each doorway a curtain kept constantly wet with Condy^a 
fluid. 

3. The third thing is — to decide who is to attend upon 
the patient. There should always be two persons and no 
more. They should cover their hair with washing caps, 
dress in washing clothes, and not associate with the rest 
of the household or with any other persons. They should 
each take at least six hours sleep out of the 24. They 
should each walk out in the fresh air 1 hour per day. 
They should wash their hands and faces with Condy^s fluid 

L 



146 DISINFECTION. 

and water when they leave the patient's room. They 
should avoid inhaling the breath or exhalations of the 
patient and they should neither eat nor drink in the sick- 
room. 

4. The fourth thing is — to place in a comer of the pa- 
tient's room a large glazed pan containing water and 
Carbolic Acid or Condy's fluid. Into this pan everything 
that can be washed or boiled should be put, directly it is 
done with, before it leaves the sick-room. The pan should 
be emptied night and morning or oftener. 

5. The patient should be sponged all over with warm 
water and Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap twice a day (ex- 
cept during periods in which it may be thought unadvis- 
able by the doctor) ; and if the skin is peeling or powdery 
it should be anointed after the sponging with olive oil 
containing a little Carbolic Acid (about 10 per cent). 

6. Chloride of Lime and Water or Carbolic Acid should 
be put into every utensil before it is used by the patient, 
and after being used the contents should be immediately 
thrown down the drain, together with some fresh Chloride 
of Lime. 

7. The patient's teeth and mouth should be washed 
with Condy's fluid, or Calvert's Carbolic Acid Soap, and 
water several times a day, and when there is any dis- 
charge from the nose or other passages these should be 
cleansed in the same way. When the discharges from the 
body are foetid Savory and Moore's Carbolic Acid vapor- 
iser should be burnt in the room. 

8. It must constantly be borae in mind that no amount 
or kind of disinfection will take the place of fresh air, 
and therefore the sick-room must be kept freely venti- 
lated, carefully avoiding draughts. (See Chapter I.) 
Gas should not be burnt in a sick-room. 

9. The doctor should not communicate with any other 



DISINFECTION. 147 

members of the honsehould after lie leaves the sick-room 
and he should always be provided with a basin of water, 
Calvert^s Carbolic Acid Soap, a nail brush, and a clean 
towel, with which to wash his hands on leaving. 

Let it he especially remembered that the main points are 
(he prompt disinfection of the infecting mediay enumerated 
in the beginning of this Chapter , and the free circulation of 
fresh air. 

After the acute specific disease has run its course, in- 
fection may last as long as there are any unhealthy dis- 
charges left by the disease, as long as there is any peeling 
or powdering of skin, shedding of hair or the like; and 
precautions are needed for disinfecting these means of 
spreading disease so long as they exist. 

No doctor who has been in attendance upon Erysipelas, 
Scarlet fever, Puerperal fever. Typhus, Gangrene, Pyae- 
mia &c., or who has been engaged in a 'post-mortem exami'^ 
nation should enter a lying-in room until he has subjected 
himself to effectual purification and disinfection ; and it is 
a safe rule, under all circumstances, for a doctor not to 
touch a lying-in patient until he has washed his hands 
with some disinfectant. 

The difficulties of carrying out this rule are very great 
in the hurry of practice, but every doctor engaged in 
Obstetric practice is bound to provide for doing so. And 
he should never go upon his rounds without some disin- 
fectant with him to mix with the water in which he 
washes his hands in case of unexpected need. 

To facilitate this important hygienic precaution, I have 
induced Messrs. Maw, the well-known instrument makers 
of 11 Aldersgate Street, and Messrs. Calvert the cele- 
brated manufacturers of Carbolic Acid, to provide a little 
metal case containing a piece of strong Carbolic Add 
Soap, a nail-brush, (for it is useless to wash the hands 

l2 



148 DISINFECTION. 

without brushing out the nails) and a little tube of Car 
bolic Acid, for medical men to cany constantly in their 
pockets when on their rounds. The whole is no larger 
than a small snuff-box, and is called '' The pocket disin- 
fectoe/' It ought to be used by nurses and visitors upon 
the sick, as well as by doctors. 

When the infectious period of the illness is over and the 
patient removed from the sick-room — everything which 
has been used or worn by the patient and attendants 
having been either disinfected or destroyed as already 
directed — ^the room must be thoroughly disinfected in the 
foUowing manner :— 

1. The windows and doors being shut, the room must 
be kept full of Carbolic Acid fumes for 12 hours by means 
of one of Savory and Moore^s Vaporisers — Then the win- 
dows must be opened for 12 hours before cleaners and 
workpeople are admitted. 

2. The floors, paint, and furniture, must be washed with 
Water and Chloride of Lime or with Calvert's Carbolic 
Acid Soap. The ceiling and walls must be Lime- washed, 
after which the walls may be re-papered if required. 
While this work is in progress a fire should be kept 
burning in the grate and the windows open. 

The following particulars as to the mode and proportions 
in which to use Chloride of Lime, Carbolic Acid, and 
Condy^s fluid, have been kindly furnished by Messrs, 
Savory and Moore, and by Mr. Calvert, 

For fumigation by Chlorides. — Dissolve one pound of 
the Chloride of Lime in 4 gallons of Water and, after 
stirring the mixture well, allow it to settle; pour off the 
clear liquor and place it in shallow dishes or other con- 
venient vessels in the rooms and passages of the House. 



DISINFECTION. 149 

For use in chamber-utensils, bed-pans, spittoons, &c., 
and where a volatile disinfectant is required, a wine-glass- 
ful of the above solution should be added to a pint of 
water. 

Carholic Acid. — When required for the above purposes, 
that prepared "for Disinfecting'^ should bei obtained — one 
ounce of this added to a quart of Water is sufficiently 
strong to purify drains, water-closets, &c. The mixture 
should be vigorously stirred or shaken (as Carbolic Acid 
is not readily miscible with water). Half a pint of this 
solution put into any utensil used in the sick-room will 
disinfect the contents, and enable them to be preserved for 
the inspection of the medical man without any unpleasant 
effluvia arising. 

Carbolic Acid- oil for anointing patients, should consist 
of Olive Oil and about 10 per cent, of Carbolic Acid. 

Condy'sAuid. — For use either with the spray producer 
to disinfect rooms, for cleaning sponges or bandages, 
washing the skin of the patient, the personal use of Nurses 
or Medical Attendants, dressing wounds, &c., Condy's 
fluid should be mixed with water in the proportion of a 
teaspoonful to a pint. Linen and Bed-clothes should be 
immersed in a solution made by mixing a wineglassful in 
a pailful of Water ; diluted in this proportion it does not 
stain the linen. 



Chapter VIII. 

SPECIAL EECIPES, DIEECTIONS, AND APPLI- 
ANCES FOR THE SICK-ROOM. 

PABINACEOUS ARTICLES — ^BBBF TEA — ^LIBBIG's EXTRACT OP MEAT 

BRANDOS MEAT JELLY AND SOLID BEEP TEA — DARBY^S PLTHD 

MEAT — ^WHITE OP EGG — WHET — ^ANIMAL POODS RE-COOKED — 
BREAD — SPECIAL RESTORATIVE — SPECIAL NUTRITIVE — COCOA 

AND EGG— INVALID SOUP COMBINATIONS OP ALIMENTARY 

PRINCIPLES IN NORMAL PROPORTIONS— PORT WINE JELLY — 
SUET AND MILK— MILK WITH RUM, ETC. — ^NUTRITIVE ENE- 
MATA — ^NUTRITIVE MIXTURE — CEREALIN TEA — POULTICES AND 
POULTICING BY STEAM — INHALATIONS — NASH's BRONCHITIS 
KETTLE — WARM BATHS — LIGHTS IN THE SICK ROOM — ^NURS- 
ING SCHEDULE. 

As this does not profess to be a " cookery book" only a 
few Medical-food Recipes will be here given, with some 
directions for the cooking* and appliances of the sick- 
room which cannot easily be found elsewhere. — For the 
ordinary kitchen recipes the reader is referred to the 
cookery-books of Miss Acton, and Mrs. Beeton, and to 
Cre-fydd's " Family Fare," pp. 240 to 249. 

1. Farinaceous Articles should all be submitted to a 
temperature of 212° Faht. (boiling water) to make them 
digestible. 

2. Beep Tea should not be boiled, and should not be 
strained through a fine sieve or muslin. It should be 
made as follows. Take of Rumpsteak, free from fat and 
minced, 1 lb., cold water 1 pint, a pinch of salt. Put them 

* See p. S3) On modes of cooking in common ns9. 



SPECIAL BECIPES^ ETC. 151 

into a jar and tie it down. Place the jar in a saucepan of 
cold water, raise this water slowly to boiling and keep it 
slowly boiling for two hours. Eemove the jar and strain 
its contents through a very coarse sieve so that all finely 
powdered sediment may run through. Then pass a piece 
of bread over the surface to remove any fat that may float 
upon it. 

3. LiBBiG^s Extract op Meat and other similar prepara- 
tions. It is important to bear in mind that these contain 
very little, if any, nourishment properly so-called ; that is 
to say, they contain no plastic material, no fat, no saccha- 
rine matter. Their principal virtues belong to the class 
of stimulants and blood-tonics. When mixed with water, 
they are excellent menstrua in which to administer nutri- 
tive materials, such as eggs, bread, oatmeal, corn-flour, 
vermicelli ; but without such additions they are quite in* 
capable of supporting life for any length of time. Baron 
Liebig's own writings support this statement. Unless 
these facts are borne in mind a patient may easily be 
starved unintentionally. 

4. Brandos Meat Jelly and Brand's Solid Beep Tea are 
excellent and reliable nutrients, they may be obtained at 
Little Stanhope Street, or through a Chemist. 

5. Darby's Fluid Meat. This is a new and valuable 
preparation. It contains all the constituents of lean meat, 
including fibrine, gelatine, and albumen ; but by the 
process pursued these are all brought into a condition 
in which they are soluble in water and are not any 
longer coagulable on heating — in which state they have 
been designated Peptones. This change is efiected, as in 
ordinary digestion, by means of pepsine and hydrochloric 
acid. 

The Pepsine employed is very carefully prepared — with- 
out addition of starch or any extraneous substance. Lean 



152 SPECUL RECIPES, ETC. 

meat^ finely sliced, is digested with the pepsine in water 
previously acidulated with hydrochloric acid at a tempera- 
ture of from 96"^ to 100° Fah. until the whole of the fibrine 
of the meat has disappeared. 

The liquor is then filtered — separating small portions of 
fat, cartilage, or other insoluble matters — and neutralized 
by means of carbonate of soda; and, finally, carefully 
evaporated to the consistence required, namely, that of a 
soft extract. 

The resulting extract represents in all its constituents the 
lean meat employed, but with the fibrine, albumen, and 
gelatine changed into their respective peptones or soluble 
forms. This change is efiected solely by the pepsine and 
hydrochloric acid, or artificial gastric juice, without the 
evolution or absorption of any gas or the formation of any 
secondary products. 

The peptones thus formed, although agreeing exactly 
in chemical composition and even in many physical pro- 
perties with the substances from which they are derived, 
difier from them by a ready solubility in water and even 
in diluted alcohol. 

But this process, whatever care may be taken, leaves 
the Fluid Meat with a strong bitter taste. This bitterness 
attaches always to meat digested with pepsine; and tnis, 
in the opinion of medical men, would wholly preclude 
its acceptance and adoption as an article of food. At the 
same time, it curiously illustrates the identity of the 
process in the laboratory with digestion in the living 
stomach. 

In order to remove this bitter taste, and to obviate the 
objection to Fluid Meat on that ground, Mr. Darby made 
many experimental researches, and at length discovered 
that the purpose is completely and satisfactorily eflTected 
by the addition, in a certain part of the process, of a small 
proportion of fresh pancreas. 



SPECIAL RECIPES^ ETC. 153 

The following are methods of using Fluid Meat: — 

One ounce by weight, or a large table-spoonfiil, equals 
the quantity of extract, obtained by boiling, from twenty 
ounces of meat. 

Spread between bread and butter, and sprinkled with 
salt, it makes an agreeable sandwich. 

Dissolved in water with a little salt and pepper it forms 
a liquid similar in taste to beef tea. 

A small dessert-spoonful of the Fluid Meat in half a 
pint of water, or a tea-spoonful to a large tea-cupful is a 
good proportion, and this may be increased as desirable. 

Flavoured with suitable condiments. Fluid Meat may be 
taken as soup; and, compared with the amount of solid 
matter obtained from meat by stewing, it becomes an 
economical article of diet. 

For Oravy Soup, — Take a little carrot, turnip, onion, 
and celery, with a clove, small piece of mace and pepper ; 
boil gently, strain, and for each half pint of liquor add a 
table-spoonful of Fluid Meat, with a little salt. 

For Vermicelli Soup, — Place in a covered jar in the 
oven a little sliced celery, onion, bruised spices and pep- 
per, with water; when the celery and onion are tho- 
roughly softened,, strain, add Fluid Meat, (in the propor- 
tion of a tablespoonful to half a pint) with salt, a small 
knob of loaf sugar, and vermicelli previously boiled. 

Another Soup. — Take two onions, a large carrot and 
turnip, cut into small slices, and fry them well with a 
little butter in a clean pan ; when well browned, pour on 
three pints of boiling water ; let stand till cold, skim, 
strain out the vegetables, add half a pound of girasole 
root previously boiled in water till soft, and two ounces 
of the Fluid Meat ; boil for a minute or two ; macaroni 
or vermicelli, softened by boiling, may be added at plea- 
sure. 



154 SPECIAL BECIPES^ ETC. 

6. White op Egg diflFers from the yolk principally in 
containing no fat. On this account it is often better 
borne by bilious persons. Yolk of Egg contains 29*8 per 
cent, of fat ; when the stomach can bear it, therefore, it is 
a more complete nutriment than the white. But white 
of Egg beaten up in milk answers every purpose. 

Eggs for the sick should be either raw, or very lightly 
boiled. 

7. Whey may be made either with Warren's sweet 
Essence of Rennet, or with Treacle, or with sherry, ac- 
cording to circumstances. 

a. Rennet Whey — see the directions on the sweet 

Essence of Rennet bottles. 
6. Treacle Whey — pour three table-spoonfuls of best 

Treacle into a pint of new milk while it is boiling ; 

see that it boils up once after the treacle is added ; 

set it aside to cool and then strain, 
c. White Wine Whey is made in the same way as 

Treacle Whey, three glasses of sherry being used to 

a pint of milk. 
Note — When a more nutritious food is desired and suit- 
able, well beat up the curds with the whey instead of 
straining ; see that they are not in lumps. 

8. All Animal poods are apt to lose digestibilitj' by re- 
peated cooking, (see p. 83). 

9. Bread should be either toasted or 24 hours old. 

10. Special Restorative. I have found the following to 
be a most efficient restorative food, and the mixture is 
agreeable to most palates. 

New milk (cold) 4 parts. 

Beef tea (cold) 3 parts. 

Brandy (pale) 1 part. 
If no other food is taken, about 5 fluid-ounces (a quarter 
of a pint Imperial) should be given evej^j 2 hours, or half 



SPECIAL RECIPES, ETC. 155 

that quantity every hour. It should be sucked out of a 
syphon Infants-feeding bottle, not drunk out of a spoon 
or cup. When desirable this food may be gradually 
thickened by the addition of boiled corn-flour or other 
farinaceous articles, and one egg may be well beaten up 
in each half pint. The flavour may be varied by adding 
different spices. 

11. Special Nutritive. Beat up an egg, both white and 
yolk, quite smooth and free from stringy particles, stir it 
well into half a pint of hot milk in which enough arrowroot 
has been boiled to make it about as thick as cream ; add a 
wine-glassful of sherry or a table-spoonful of pale brandy, 
five grains of pancreatine powder (Savory and Moore^s), and 
some fresh nutmeg ; mix all thoroughly by pouring from 
cup to cup. On this food alone, repeated every four hpurs, 
a patient can be well supported for a considerable time. 

12. Cocoa and Egg. Beat up an egg, both white and 
yolk, quite smooth and free from stringy particles, stir it 
into half a pint of hot milk, and then add a teaspoonful of 
soluble cocoa, previously liquified with a little of the milk. 
This forms an excellent breakfast easily taken by those 
who cannot eat in the early part of the day. 

13. Invalid Soup. The following Invalid soup has 
proved extremely useful in a large number of cases, and 
since I first published the recipe in 1864 it has been 
usually kept nicely prepared by Mr. Donges, Confectioner, 
Gower Street, W.C, 

Gravy beef 1 lb., scragg of mutton 1 lb., isinglass 2 oz.,. 
vermicelli 3 oz., mushroom ketchup 3 tablespoonfuls, 
corns of allspice 24, sage a sprig, cold water 3 quarts; 
put the isinglass and the meat cut small into the cold 
water, gradually boil, skim well, and then add the other 
ingredients ; simmer four or five hours till reduced to one 
quart ; strain through a fine hair sieve, and carefully re- 



156 SPECIAL RECIPES^ ETC. 

move all fat; add salt to the taste. This maybe taken 
cold as a jelly, or warm as a soup. Calf s-foot may be 
used instead of isinglass when procurable; and when 
allowable a little solution of cayenne pepper should be 
added ; and the taste may be varied by the addition of a 
little Worcester, or other wholesome sauce. 

14. Combinations op alimentary principles in nearly 
EXACT normal PROPORTIONS. (See Chapter III.) 

a. Flour 4 oz., sugar Ij oz., suet f oz., milk f pint Im- 
perial, 1 egg. — ^This will make a good pudding, or it may 
be given in any other form desired ; with the addition of 
a little cress and salt and water it forms a complete diet, 
upon a suflScient quantity of which a person can live 
healthfully for an indefinite length of t^me without any 
other food. 

6. The same may be said of the following. — Eice 3 oz., 
sugar I oz., 2 eggs, butter ^ oz., milk f pint (Imperial), 
water as much as is sufficient to boil the rice in. 

c. Suet J lb., flour 1 lb., water 13 oz. These quantities 
when boiled yield 2 lbs. of pudding. 

15. Port Wine Jelly. Take of port wine 1 pint, isin- 
glass 1 oz., sugar 1 oz. ; put the isinglass and sugar into 
J pint of water, warm till all is dissolved, then add the 
wine, strain through muslin and set to jelly. (An excel- 
lent way of giving port wine.) 

Another form, firm enough to carry in the pocket cut 
up in cubes, may be made as follows : 

Take isinglass and gum Arabic of each an ounce, dis- 
solve in a pint of port wine over a slow fire ; sweeten with 
fine sugar to the taste, and after straining through a fine 
sieve, grate in a small nutmeg. Take about a cubic inch 
when feeling weak or low. 

16. Suet and Milk. Put a table-spoonful of shredded 
beef suet into J a pint of fresh milk, warm it sufficiently 



SPECIAL EECIPES, ET^. 157 

to completely melt the suet, then skim it, pour it into a 
warm glass or cup, and drink it before it cools. If there 
is any difficulty in digesting the suet add 5 gr. of Pan- 
creatine powder. (Savory and Moore^s). 

17. Milk with Edm, Brandy, or Whiskey. Put one 
ibablespoonful of Eum, Brandy, or Whiskey into half a 
pint of new milk, and mix well by pouring several times 
from one vessel to another. " Bilious" persons should 
heat tbe rum before adding it to the milk. 

18. NuTRiTiVR Enemata. When nutriment is given in 
enemata the quantity should not exceed from 2 to 4 oz., 
and the temperature should be about 80°. 

The bowel should be first washed out with half a pint 
of warm water. — An elastic bottle holding the required 
quantity is better for nutritive enemata than the ordinary 
enema syringe. They should be given while the patient 
is lying on the back with the hips raised on a pillow. 

The following constitutes a most important means of 
preserving life when food cannot be given by the stomach. 

Take of cooked beef or mutton finely grated Jib. 

Pancreatic Emulsion (Savory and Moore's) 1 oz. 

Pancreatine powder (Savory and Moore's) 20 grains. 

Pepsine (Porci) 20 grains. 
Mix the whole in a warm mortar quickly and add 
Brandy one table-spoonful and enough warm water to bring 
the mixture to the consistence of Treacle. Inject from an 
elastic Enema bottle, as quickly after the mixture is made 
as possible, and let it be retained. (See Appendix VII.) 

19. Nutritive Mixture. When a patient will take 
medicine but not food. 

Liebig's Extract of Meat a tea-spoonful. 
Loeflund's Liebig's Extract of Malt a tea-spoonful. 
Tincture of Capsicum one drop. 
Compound spirit of Horseradish a tea-spoonful. 
Water 2 table-spoonfuls. Mix well in a mortar. 



158 SPECIAL RECIPES, ETC. 

To be given every 3 or 4 hours. This will often bring 
back the desire for food. 

20. Ceeealin Tea. Cerealin is contained in the white 
matter adhering to the inner side of the best fresh bran, its 
digestive power is suspended by a temperature above 170° 
Faht. The tea therefore should be made by infusing fresh 
bran (taking care to select that which has plenty of the 
cerealin upon it) in hot water of a temperature below 170°. 
It may be drunk freely at meals with great advantage 
where the power of digesting gluten is defective. But 
should not be taken by those, with over acid stomachs. 

21. Poultices. Linseed poultices should be made by 
filling a muslin bag with crushed linseed, (not linseed 
meal) then putting it into a basin or dish and pouring 
boiling water upon it. — When thoroughly soaked it should 
be squeezed between towels till no water drips from it. 
The same poultice may be made hot four or five times by 
pouring fresh boiHng water upon it. Bread poultices 
should be made of finely crumble^d bread treated in the 
same way as the linseed. 

POULTICINO BY STEAM. A NEW MEANS OP APPLYING BITflEB 
MOIST OR DRY HEAT TO THE SURFACE OP THE BODY. At 

a Meeting of the Abemethian Society of St. Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital, February 10th, 1853, I introduced the 
use of vulcanized rubber bags, filled with hot water, as a 
" new means of applying heat, and of maintaining the 
temperature of warm applications,^' and the suggestion 
has been followed to a considerable extent in the use of 
hot-water bags, as foot-warmers, stomach-warmers, and 
the like ; but the difficulty of preventing the water from 
accumulating in one part of the bag by gravitation, and 
(when this is prevented by septa and by completely filling 
the bag) the great weight of the water, have presented 
hitherto insuperable objections to the general use of large 



SPECIAL EBCJPES, ETC. 159 

hot-water poultices, which in all other respects offer so 
many advantages. When the part to be poulticed can be 
placed upon the hot water bag, it answers perfectly. 

In the treatment of Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Peritonitis, 
Phlebitis, and all other inflammatory affections occupying 
large areas, when it is desired to employ equable warmth 
for protracted periods, the difficulty of doing so in a satis- 
factory manner is only too familiar to all practical physi- 
cians and surgeons. 

This difficulty I have now removed by an important 
modification of my original design, viz., the employment of 
Steam, instead cf Water, thereby getting rid of all the 
objections which prevented the complete success of my 
suggestion in 1853. 

Messrs. Maw, Son, and Thompson are prepared to sup- 
ply the apparatus for Poulticing by Steam,* with either 
dry or moist heat — ^adapted to any part of the body — at a 
moderate cost. 

22. Fluids for Inhalations should have a temperature 
of about 170°Faht. 

23. "Nash^s Bronchitis Kettle" sold at 253 Oxford 
Street, is a convenient appliance for impregnating the air 
of a room with warm moisture either pure or medicated. 
Full directions for use are supplied with the kettle. 

24. Warm baths should not exceed a temperature of 
98° without medical orders. 

25. The lights in a sick-room should always be placed 
behind the patient, not in front. Gas should not be used 
at all. (See "Ventilation'^). Candles are better than 
lamps. 

26. A Nursing Schedule should be nsed in all Fevers, 
Inflammations, Surgical Cases, and other Acute Illnesses. 

* This apparatus was exhibited at the meeting of the British Medical 
Association, in Norwich, Angust, 1874> 



160 SPECIAL RECIPES, ETC. 

Those who have been called upon to bear the responsi- 
bility of the Nursing in a severe case of Fever, Inflamma- 
tion, Surgical Operation, or the like, will have a vivid 
recollection of the difficulties they encountered in carrying 
out the various Medical Orders upon the punctual attend- 
ance to which, through anxious days and night,s, the 
patient's life depended. 

How to arrange the hours for Nutriment, for Medicine, 
for Wine, for Brandy, for dressing wounds, for external 
applications, for Sleep, &c., &c., without one important 
item clashing with another, is often a most puzzling ques- 
tion, requiring the details to be carefully considered and 
arranged in writing, before it is practicable to work them 
out. 

Not unfrequently the orders left by the doctor are mis- 
understood, or found to be impracticable when they come 
to be put together and arranged according to time — the 
hours for dressing wounds or taking Medicine clashing 
with those for Food, the hours for Wine coming upon 
those for Brandy, or interfering with the necessary sleep, 
and so forth. When the doctor has gone and, perhaps, 
as in country houses, cannot possibly be consulted again 
for many hours, it is difficult to overstate the distress of 
friends and nurses on discovering that orders, which have 
been impressed upon them with all the weight of questions 
of life and death, cannot be impKcitly carried out from 
want of a consistent arrangement of their details. 

Happily for the sick, and for the doctors, nursing is 
now passing into the hands of educated Ladies and well 
trained Nurses, competent to understand and to perform 
with intelligence that systematic nursing to which the 
enlightened practical Medicine of the present day at- 
taches such vital importance. And the introduction of 
the Clinical Themrometer and similar appliaiices into the 



SPECIAL RECIPES, ETC. ^ 161 

sick room, makes it necessary in private houses (where 
there are no cHnical assistants or honse-sm>geons as in 
hospitals) to entrust the nurse with the task of keeping 
a register of the temperature, the rate of pulse and re- 
spiration, &c., at hours when the doctor cannot be in 
attendance. 

The doctor who believes in the importance of his own 
orders will be strict in requiring at each visit an accurate 
report of how they have been obeyed. The nurse who 
intends to obey them faithfully will not be satisfied unless 
she sees that they are both intelligible and practicable 
before the doctor leaves the house, and she should write 
.them down directly he is gone. 



H 



PART n. 



ON THE 



INTERDEPENDENCE AND PREVENTION 



OP 



DISEASES 



AND THE 



DIMINUTION OF THEIR FATALITY. 



"Amid all the dangers that threaten this Metropolis there is a sad 

certainty more serious than any one of them it is not disease but it 

is not health. It is a low state of yitality, of physical power, of mental 
energy, of enjoyment, and even of moral strength." — "The Times,'* 
August 4th, 185S. 



u2 



PART n. 

ON THE INTEEDBPENDBNCB AND PEEVEN- 
TION OF DISEASES AND THE DIMINUTION 
OF THBIE FATALITY.* 



Chaptee IX. 

THE DUTIES OF MEDICAL MEN — THE INTERDEPENDENCE OP DIS- 
EASES SHEWING THE IMPORTANCE OF PERIODICAL EXAMIN- 
ATIONS. 

Gentlemen, we are all members of a practical profession. 
We have taken upon ourselves higli and responsible du- 
ties, all culminating in action. So long as we choose to 
assume these duties in a profession, as yet so far from 
perfection, we are not justified in spending our time in 
scientific investigations or speculations, unless they have 
for their end some practical appHcation for the good of 
humanity. It is the hope of attaining such an end which 
has led me on in the design and labour of these Lectures. 

I proceed at once to lay it before you. 

In the beginning of the first Lecture I asserted, that 
we are justified in practising the profession of medicine 
only in proportion as we beHeve in the articles of the fol- 
lowing creed : — 

1. That man may be the instrument through whom the 

* Selections from Lbcturbs "On the Germs and Vestiges of Disease and 
on the Prevention of the Invasion and Fatality of Disease,*' delivered by 
THE Author to medical practitioners and students at the Royal Hospital 
for Diseases of the Chest, in 1861. 



166 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

invasion and progress of premature destructive changes in 
the human organism may be prevented or arrested. 

2. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
damaged organism may be more efficiently repaired. 

3. That man may be the instrument through whom the 
sufferings of the human being may be alleviated. 

In what sense the organism is capable of accomplishing 
these ends without the instrumentality of man, I have 
shown you (in the previous lectures) by numerous argu- 
ments and examples. I have also shown you the various 
modes by which it becomes deprived of this capability. The 
conclusion at which I now arrive is this, that man may be 
the instrument through whom the capability of accom- 
plishing these ends may be preserved and restored to the 
organism. 

The manner in which man is to exercise this instrumen- 
tality is the next point for our consideration. But I think 
we have almost reduced it to a necessary conclusion. For 
as we have plainly seen that the organism is competent to 
take care of itself, provided that it possesses a normal 
Vital force and is surrounded by normal conditions of 
life; and as we have also seen that the great causes of 
defect in the force are the vestiges of disease and abnormal 
conditions of life ; and as we have also learnt that the dis- 
eases, from which the vestiges result, are invited by de- 
fects of the force; and that, when thus invited and 
received into the organism, they are capable of being 
disposed of without leaving vestiges behind, if the Vital 
force is free from excessive defect ; that thus these ves- 
tiges are due to defective force ; and as we have learnt 
that the earliest invasion of defects in the force — upon 
which all the long and intricate succession of ills depend 
as a germ — as we have learnt, I say, that this state of 
germination exists at a period anterior to the. manifesta- 



AND THE DIMINUTION OP THBIB FATALITY, 167 

tion of disease in its ordinary characters^ and that it is to 
be found in the garb of slight impairments of the general 
healthy the indications of which are more and more eva- 
sive and occult, the earher the stage of germination ; and, 
finally, as we have learnt that it is in this occult and 
evasive stage of germination that the defect is most easily 
and most efficiently to be remedied ; I think you will agree 
with me in the practical conclusion at which I have ar- 
rived. 

This conclusion is — that the manner in which man is to 
exercise his instrumentality for the prevention of disease, 
the prevention of the vestiges of disease, and the preven- 
tion of fatality in disease, is to search out these earliest 
evasive periods, of defect in the physiological state, and to 
adopt measures fgr their remedy. (See p. 206 ^^ Abnormal 
Physiological States^^)^ 

This appears to me to be the highest, the most en- 
nobled duty of the physician, calling for the most abstruse 
knowledge of the science of life, the deepest experience in 
disease, the keenest exercise of the perceptive faculties, 
the calmest, most far-sighted reasoning and the wisest 
judgment, — a duty as much above the management of 
acute disease as to rule an empire is above fighting a 
pitched battle. 

Now, I am perfectly convinced, from my own observa- 
tion and experience in practice, that patients never think 
of consulting their doctors till these conditions of impaired 
general health have advanced far enough to have been 
developed into some form of disease : that thousands and 
thousands of persons, believing themselves to be in health, 
are nevertheless undergoing these early, occult, and eva- 
sive stages of defect in the physiological state; and that 
such persons may be considered to be in health, not only 



168 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

by themselves, but by any one accustomed to associate 
with them. 

The only means by which to reach this evil and to ob- 
tain the good, would be for persons to svhmit themselves 
and their children to systemcdic periodical examinations. 

Such examinations ought to include an inquiry into the 
family history, to leam the hereditary constitution ; into 
the persona] history, to leam all the previous diseases that 
have been passed through, and the habits and vicissitudes 
of life; into all the conditions of life surrounding the 
individual; into, the condition of the organs and functions 
of the body ; into the state of the secretions and fluids of 
the body by analyses and microscopical examinations; 
and so forth. 

The examination should be reported in writing ; and, 
after due consideration, such advice should be given as a 
careful judgment may dictate, for the future conduct, 
pursuits, and habits of the patient, with a view to correct- 
ing any defects or tendency to defects in the organism. 
Advice should also be given as to the means of removing 
any vestiges of disease that have been detected, or if they 
are not removable, advice as to the best way of overcoming 
their influence or of averting their increase. To this must 
be added precautions to be adopted in certain contingen- 
cies which, according to the judgment of the case, appear 
probable. 

If such a plan as I have here proposed were to be faith- 
fully and conscientiously carried out by the present and 
rising generation of well-educated, studious, medical men, 
immense benefit would be conferred upon the public. The 
next question is, then, what would be the efiect upon the 
profession in a pecuniary and in an ethical sense. With 
regard to the pecuniary question, it is only necessary to^ 



AND THE DIMINUTION OP THSIB FATALITY. 169 

observe that^ of conrse^ I do not expect that any man in 
good practice, whose time is profitably employed, could 
conduct such an examination and give such advice for the 
usual consultation-fee. A special fee would be necessary 
to enable him to give the necessary time and considera- 
tion to every case. 

But this should in no way interfere with the power of 
the poor to participate in such a system. Every hospital 
and dispensary should institute a distinct department for 
the conduct of such examinations, and for giving the ne- 
cessary advice. Every patient discharged from its wards 
should be submitted to this department before returning 
to the duties of life.* 

I have again and again referred in these Lectures to the 
numberless anomalous symptoms, the pains, discomforts, 
nervous disturbances, etc., etc., which aflfect persons in 
abnormal physiological states, and which increase in their 
severity, obviousness, and number, as the states of health 
become more and more degraded, and the occurrence of 
some acute disease becomes more imminent. I have 
pointed out to you that these are the states of health 
which fill our consulting-rooms and the out-patient de- 
partments of hospitals and dispensaries. 

In further confirmation of my statements on this point 
I may remind you of some apposite observations by Sir 
Henry Holland on the subject of symptomatic complaints. 
In his ^^ Medical Notes and Reflections'^ he says, speaking of 
gouty blood. — ^* Irregular actions of the heart, hypochon- 
driacal depression, as well as the more common symptoms 
of dyspepsia and disordered secretions, frequently antecede 
by months the first appearance of gout in the extremities, 

* For details of the mode of carrying out the EzaminatioiiB at public Chari- 
ties, see a paper by the Author read at the Guildhall, June, 1862. " Troms- 
actions of the NaUonaZ AsaociaUon for the promotion of SodaZ Science" 



170 INTBBDEPENDENCB OF DISEASES 

:and occasionally give serious alarm even to those who look 
with medical eyes upon these ambiguous cases/^ — (p. 246, 
3rd edition). 

'^ Modern observation has led us to recognize some of 
these relations (of gout with local or constitutional dis- 
orders) under the names of gouty headache, gouty ophthal- 
mia, and gouty bronchitis. My own experience would lead 
me to add many cases of asthma to the number. I have 
so often seen this disorder prevalent in gouty famiUes, 
affecting those who do not undergo the disease in the 
joints, and ceasing wholly or in part when the gout ap- 
pears externally, that I cannot doubt the existence of this 
relation. 

" The greater tendency to apoplexy in this habit is no- 
ticed by many of the older writers, and confirmed by 
general experience. 

^^ Eeference has already been made to hypochondriasis 
and hysteria ; and it is probable that other disorders of 
the same class, still less generally viewed under this con- 
nection, will hereafter be submitted to it. 

" The relation of gout to the functions and disorders of 
the liver is another point of much interest in pathology, 
clearly attested both in the active symptoms of the disease 
and by those which are common under other forms of the 
gouty temperament. This, moreover, is one of the* points 
associating it with that group of maladies bearing the 
vague name of dyspepsia, 

'^ The connection of gout with cutaneous affections is an 
additional topic, yet almost unexamined j though I cannot 
doubt, from my own observation, that certain of these 
disorders occur as effects of the habit in question.'^ — [Op. 
ciLy pp. 253-54). 

That enormous quantities of medicine are dispensed in 
the out-patient departments of hospitals and dispensaries 



AND THE DIMINUTION OF THEIB FATALITY. 171 

for the tempora/ry relief of this class of functional derange- 
ments and local diseases — ^for complaints which might be 
prevented by the patients themselves if they were pro- 
perly informed of the causes and premonitory symptoms 
of their maladies — is a fact which must be perfectly 
familiar to all my hearers. Such a system of examination 
and advice as I propose, if properly carried out, must 
strike at the root of these evils, and would at the same 
time reduce the miserable over-crowding of the hospital 
waiting-rooms, and the enormous expenses incurred for 
drugs. These are considerations which, however import- 
ant as elements of social and political economy, are ele- 
vated far above the rank of financial questions by the fact 
I have endeavoured to demonstrate in these Lectures, that 
by these same means, and at the same time, we shall so 
largely promote the economy of life. 

I hope. Gentlemen, that you will draw the attention of 
the treasurers and governors of any hospitals, to which 
you may belong, to this subject. It is necessary to the 
credit and honour of our profession, that improvements 
in these medical establishments should not come from the 
public to us, but should originate among ourselves, and be 
urged by medical men upon the public attention. 

The following sketch of a common complaint, and a 
common story, may illustrate the need for some such sys- 
tem as I propose. A lad of fifbeen is admitted into a 
hospital ward with a first attack of rheumatic fever. He 
is treated with skill, and nursed with care, and in two or 
three weeks he is convalescent, and returns to his home 
without having received any damage to his heart or other 
organs. But he has no proper understanding of the na- 
ture of his complaint, of the conditions of life calculated 
to keep up the morbid influence in his organism ; no (dear 
notions of the diet which he ought or ought not to adopt ; 



172 INTERDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES 

no knowledge of the premonitory symptoms by whicli a 
firesh attack of rheumatic fever is heralded, or of the pre- 
cautions necessary when such an attack is feared. He has 
probably a general idea that his great enemy is cold, and 
his great friend flannel ; and that is as likely to lead him 
wrong as right in the measures he adopts. 

He goes back to his home and his pursuits apparently 
well. He keeps his skin closely cased in flannel, and his 
dwelling-rooms warm, but he neglects altogether to pro- 
vide for efficient excretion by the skin. He chooses a 
business, either utterly regardless of its fitness for his con- 
stitution, or makes as great a mistake by selecting one in 
which he may be sure of warm — that is to say close — 
rooms and workshops, by which he is deprived of exercise 
and oxygen. He drinks beer, eats cheese, and so forth, 
like other people in his position. After a few months he 
comes back as an out-patient at the hospital, with severe 
acid dyspepsia ; and after consuming the usual amount of 
drugs for several weeks, gets relief, and goes back to his 
old habits. A few months more, and he appears again, 
the subject of a skin disease ; goes again through the con- 
sumption of drugs, and gets well and goes back to work. 
By-and-bye he comes again with diarrhoea, and goes 
through the same process ; at another time with gravel, 
and gets relief again. At length, a few years perhaps 
having elapsed and after some months of depressed health, 
with palpitations of the heart, gloomy thoughts, irritable 
temper, and general malaise ^ he happens to be out on a 
damp raw day, gets a chill, and applies again at the hos- 
pital, with afresh attack of rheumatic fever. This time he^ 
suffers from endocarditis, and after some weeks returns 
again to his home, ^^ discharged cured,^^ but with disease 
of the valves of his heart. He has been thoroughly well 
treated, and is very free from rheumatic poison, and hence- 



AND THE DIMIKUTION OF THEIB FATALITT. 173 

goes on for a considerable time without much inconveni- 
ence ; but having no clear ideas of the nature of ths dam- 
age he lias received, or of the precautions necessary to pre- 
vent its increase or the production of secondary diseases 
dependent upon this damage for their cause, he gradually 
becomes the subject of congested lungs and liver ; of at- 
tacks of bronchitis to which he was not formerly inclined ; 
his breathing becomes short, his old dyspeptic troubles, 
cutaneous affections and gravel, recur again and again, 
and his capability of following his former occupations gets 
less and less. 

If he does not have another attack of rheumatic fever, 
he comes back to the hospital some future day with 
chronic bronchitis, or with apoplectic symptoms, or with 
congested liver, or still later with albuminuria and dropsy. 
At length he dies, and his death is registered under the 
head of apoplexy, heart-disease, or dropsy. (See " Tables 
shewing the Interdependence of Diseases,^^ pp. 177-184). 

All medical men of experience will admit that this 
sketch is no exaggeration ; that I have, in fact, omitted 
numerous details of minor diseases and discomforts, that 
are sure to have existed in the case itself. I have said 
nothing of the effects upon this man^s children of his 
continued ill-health, or of the poverty and want of food 
brought upon his wife and family by the same cause, and 
acting as fresh causes oj disease in them. But I have said 
enough to make it quite clear, that, in the course of a life 
prematurely ended, he must have consumed a vast amount 
of money in the form of drugs, and a vast amount of 
nervous energy, if not of brains, in the form of medical 
advice. 

It is to the first causes, to the ^^ wells and springs" of 
such a series of calamities as this, that I have directed 
your attention as fellow medical practitioners and stu- 



174 IKTEBDEPENDENCB OF DISEASES 

dents^ and to which I now beg that you will direct the 
attention of the Treasurers and Governors of Hospitals 
and Dispensaries^ of your private patients^ and of the 
pubUc at large. 

* * * * * 

In my fourth lecture I gave an Etiological analysis of 
those states of disease assembled under the following six 
headings in the Eegistrar-GeneraFs Eeports of the deaths 
in London. (Report of the deaths in London registered 
in the 21st week of each of the ten years 1848-57. The 
Eeport current at the time the notes for these Lectures 
were made.) 

1. Typhus, typhoid and other forms of continued fever. 

2. Apoplexy and Paralysis. 

3. Heart diseases and Pericarditis. 

4. Rheumatism and Gout. 

5. Bronchitis. 

6. Atrophy and Debility. 

I demonstrated that, when we analyse the natural his- 
tory of any disease, we find that the principal factors of 
its essential cause, of its predisposing causes and of the 
causes of its fatality fall under one of the three head- 
ings : — 1. Conditions of life. 2. Goetaneous diseases. 3. 
Vestiges of Disease. 

I showed not only theoretically but from actual obser- 
vations made by others as well as by myself, how the 
organism becomes damaged by these Vestiges op Disease 
— ^how the vital force becomes defective through these 
Vestiges, how this defective state of the vital force be- 
comes the essential cause and the predisposing cause of 
disease ; aud how the Vestiges of one disease become the 
causes of fatality in whole families of other diseases. 

I endeavoured to prove, by an array of facts, that the 
vestiges of disease become causes of fatality in other dis- 
eases principally in two ways. 



ASD TH£ DIMINUTION OF THEIB FATALITY. 17& 

1. By destroying those modes of matter and that corre- 
lation of conditions upon which the existence of the vital 
force in its normal condition depends^ thus producing 
excessive defect of the vital force. 

2. By producing excessive defect in the condition of 
some part of the organism, occupying the position, at the 
time, of an essential instrument in the processes of life, 
and thus causing the organism to break down at this its 
weakest part. 

I pointed out that in the large majority of deaths from 
disease, the fatality is due, not to the disease itself ^ hut to 
the vestiges of some pre- existent disease , operating in one or 
other of the aiove ways. 

In illustration of this great fact, I have set forth the 
course of events, by which the vestiges of disease, passing 
under the names of anemia and fattt deqenebation, bo- 
come the actual causes of a large number of the deaths 
registered under the following names : — 

Tabes mesenterica, croup, measles, hydrocephalus,, 
whooping-cough, dentition, convulsions, apoplexy, para- 
lysis, delirium tremens, intemperance, angina pectoris, 
diseases of the heart, pneumonia, diarrhoea, mortification, 
influenza, peritonitis, childbirth, bronchitis, jaundice, liver 
disease, kidney disease, and some others. 

As an indication of the insidious way in which the 
deadly influence is exerted by these states — anemia and 
FATTY degeneration — (which are only examples of a class),. 
I called attention to the fact that their names do not ap- 
pea/r in the bills of mortality. (See Anaemia, and Fatty 
Degeneration). 

My present object is to exhibit in a conspicuous man- 
ner the Inteedependence of diseases. (See '^ Preliminary 
Remarks,^^ p. 1). I have, therefore, restricted myself ta 
a statement of the influence exerted by the vestiges of 



176 INTEBDEPENDEKCE OF DISEASES. 

each of the diseases analysed in the preceding Lectures 
upon the rest of the same little group^ and in order that 
the different relationships may be seen at a glance I have 
arranged the facts in a tabular form. 

In the following tables the first column gives a list of 
the vestiges of the disease at its head. The second column 
shows to which of the diseases already analysed each 
vestige may become the predisposing cause; the third 
column shows to which of these it may become the essen- 
tial cause ; and the fourth column shows to which it may 
become the cause of fatality — the heading under which 
it will take its place in the Registrar's Reports. It must 
be remembered that several vestiges usually concur in 
producing their effects.* 

• The Table shewing the Interdependence of Winter Congh with other 
JDiseases, p. 184, has been since added and is somewhat differently arranged. 



177 



K « S as s 



CQ 



"•^ 

■21 

M <o ^ 
CO S,C 



ffi's 

"St; 

rf: g bo 
6 =» a 



9 
o 

•o 

•is 

•M CO 

2H 
CQ 



o o. 
S3 

CO • •«* 

CQ 





I 



u 

G 

eotS 

0* 



.a 
• o< 

6 ** 

at ao 
&• 

.S-o 






i 

o 

M 
H 

CO 

< 
u 

•4 

•< 

H 

as 

H 

CO 
09 

u 



t: 

U 

Xi 

•a 

u 

a 

ct 
u 



X ao 
V ct 

•S.8 



09 
(0 

2 

at 
O. 

u 
o 

•J 



fi bo : 

M G • 

b • 

nStg 01 
V cj.S 

•O •« 4j 

•a (^ 
•o^ « 

* -a 

'•-' CO 

.fl « « 

i3 S:s 



a 
o 

•Pi* 

g . 

C ed 

"C, 
•a© 

o. 
c 9 

•St: 

Q 



§< 






2 « 3 

M KJ '^ 



O 
ft 

M 
O I 

So 

Sea 

P4 CO 

u 

H 

CQ 



09 



U 

e 
2 

CQ 



I 

c 

bo 



^8 

^ •» 

jQ eo 

•at; 

^ cS 

< 



3-a 



M , 






bd"c 






of an 
matic 


rt disc 
nd me 


3 


rt rt 


C 4^ 




••^ 


«< . 


«« 


'S^ 


•-rt 

09 l-i 


s-l 


J3 H 


s« ? 


O.S. 


bo 


Kbfl 


< 


H 



•a : 
c • 
rt 

• 
01 

at 

u 
. «* 

4a ^ 
•** •^ 

•s? 

2S) 



P4 



H 

M "^ 

Pi u 

ga 
go 

H 



00 

rt 



I 

> 



13 : : 
rt 

•a . " 

•M rt C 

•"3 'a 
rt V S 

•c * »?? 

V In 

t: 

• mm ^^ 



3 ^ 



c 

•a 

c 
rt 

09 

C 
o 



CO 

at 



^2 ^ 

• •14 CO 

tj c .a 

!- o 5 

o 10 i: 

•C •» 3 

cu a. 



CO 

G 
O 

•o 
« 

c 

m 




G ' 

o : 

•5j2 
2o 
rt^ 

K ti 
V 

S rt 

5 " 
'^ o 

jQ 09 



178 



(at 
O 

m 

(4 

< 

U 

•J 

•< 
—* 

H 
Z 

b] 
M 
(A 



CO 

at 
at 

(O 

•a 
« 



o o< 

gflO 

« 2§ 

co" ••2 



o o<«) 

4<«Im CO 

^•e cd 

r:: co 
JQ c — 



o 

(A 

o I 

So 
/? « 

u 

M 



S 



V 

o 



o 
bo 



at 

M 

u 



U CO 

u 

01 

•Z rt 



CQ 



bo 



i 

■< 

u 

OS 

o 

^ I 

gs 

go 

h° 

O u 

- !< 
CO u 

sa < 

O H 

ft 

H 

CO 

M 
> 






^t 



cd 



CO V 

o o 

CO 

IS 



■«2 




00 »"« 

!S i^ »^ 

CO hfl^ 



""^.^ 



5? 



5£.» 



z 



I 

0. 

o 

CO 

M 

CO 

:3 
•< 
u 

•J 

■< 

H 
Z 

H 
CO 
CO 

U 



O 

z 

IH 

CO 

O I 
P. 

«o i 

'-' 2! 

Q O 

0. n 

S" 

u 

CQ 



OS M ' 

o M 55 
& o 

s < 
SUM 

^ IH 

a H z 

D Z S 
« w _ 
a to o 

**'W o 

h U 1^ 

o a Q 

H > S 
CO i* M 

^ gco 



Is 

a 

a CO 
^■^ 

u 

C 
• P 

4-1 Ih 

aoQ 
P 

•^ CO 

.9 5 

cd O." 
6 ^ 

373 "S, 



ftj cd 

s >. . 

. (d.a : 
00 o, 

•S*3 

g c^ : 
SS * 



u • 

H ^ 
dS 

OS 

•< < 

IH Z 

9 H 

*2 

H 5 

O M 

a M 

H " 

^g 

•< O M 

O O H 



Q,2 Co 
0,'a bo^o 



c 
o 

CQ 



.2 * 

§ : 

a>.S 
0.-3 

o." 



CO CO*** • 

c « o : 

« w «d ; 
C >- 

a> *■ 4> 

bot^ C 
•a V bo : 
CO Q^ 

^ CO *2 

cd C u 6 
cd 00 cd !r 

•So'S-g 
S ^S S 

fa 



8 



at 

6 

9 

w 

.a 






.S 6 
P bo 

fl 

fa 



cd 
at 



a 



u cd 



Eg . 

CO u 

.2'^'^ 

I -a 

CO 6 t) 

0.2 .2 



fa 



c • c 






.s c Q 

Cd bo 

^-^"^ 

•O J- ed 

C ■» 09 

cd ^ •*« 

^ 00.0 00 

< 



cd cd 
b0J3 

c 
5S. 



00 



u 

C 

S 
CQ 



a> 

CO 

cd 

V 
CO 



cd 

V 

M 

V 

> 



a> 

C 

bo 
Q 



u a 

2 « 
&« 

at '•^ • 

""la 
^» & 

"SCO. 

Sop 
p.« 00 

Cd « 
O C w 

(oE S 

^ cd S 

^^ « 
CO e •« 

♦J .5 13 

< 



p— • • • • 
cd 00 00 • 

•«h.T! o 

CA cd 

2 "ti 
00?: 

ems 

o 
•o bo : 

d V 2 
" CO O 

« «« «• 

S a " 

^ 00 *>* 
TI'-H ♦* 

"S-Ogoo 
at ♦* p JO 

ct<AP^H 

Q 



C 

««H 

o 

V 

CO 

CO 

t3 
u 

e 
o 

Ih 



00 

a 

o 
•-^ 

13 

cd 
u 

4-1 

c 
o 
u 

•o 
e 
cd 

•a 
a> 

c 

CO 



o 

CO 



00 

c 
o 

•i 

CO 

3 
o 
a> 

§ 

4i« 

3 

o 



M 

4-» 

o 

tJ 

c 

cd 

cd 

E 
tt 

c 
< 



179 



H.ii 
<< 

H <o S 



O 

CO 

M 
w 

D 
< 



H 

H 



o 
z 

M 

M 

o 
<^ >^ 

2 "» 

Mr) 

a 
o 
u 

M 



o 

^ I 

H Z 

< H 

^< 
H -J 

X M 

o > 

H 
CO u 

r ^^ 
«« o 



CO c 

•*^ c . 
a >««> 

•a <j 

E-o o 
.2-2 w 

g « o 

s » tt 

V 01 t4 



* - C 

*g 
•a « : 

E'.S-d 

CO V 

cd CO r 

ESS 



■g-s 

c ^ 
o ^ 

•|^ 

E5= 
H 



23 



CO 

•s 



lis 

c 

•o 

■a • 
* 

U) 

>^ A 
So* 

(0 ed . 
O OJ u 

ca as 

n 



V 



•g 

c 

•S 

C3 

ts 
c si* 



e 

S 
n 



H 



u 

9 

a § 

: o 



c 

C0 

v 

CO 



'-B 






CO -2 

tixi >i 

Oi u c 

X < 



Ck 

o 

CO 

u 

CO 

•< 
U 

•J 

< 

H 
Z 

M 

CO 
lO 

M 



CI • 

CO s* 
2-* : 
• a ' 

I!' (^ 
> o. : 

« «o^ 
(3 V CL 



o 
z 

(O 

« i 

So 

g CO 
BS til 

s< 

u 

H 



> 

1 

Oi 

a 
Q 



>»«0 



SS 


• 
• 
• 


o ;? 




s z 


• 


B. « 


e 


>. H 


o 


H5 


•5 


o 




.o^J 


d d. 


c 


go 


& 


>. CO 


v 


H2 





o 

ss 

> 



i 






2? 

e 

a 






•o : 

V 

•g : 

« : 

>t CO 

.0 cd 

< 



i^ 



t3 



2 



ea u O 



at w 



J2 



S M 



S-s 



We «o 

o'S 

C rt c) 

SE< 



S5 • 
«§ 

o _^ • 

•IS ; 
-I 

♦* ^ • 

bo : 

a c 

-•c 
a 



CO 

V 

rs V fO 

o. id bo 
a C 

«.2.2 

(0 >>o 
ft p V 

V g |4 

.2 *^ 
"^ « I- 

4J (0 u 
4> <«' O 



II 



s 



CO 

CO 

n 

u 
e« 
O. 

-s 

ct 

"3. 

a 

< 



II 



£ 



E 

V a 
u 

•a Oi 

cs (0 
••" ^ 

as 

O *« 
A C 

H 



180 



'1 

•J 

SI 



< 



V 

OB 
tt 

c 






X 

< 






«!^:: §^ 



i 



H 

M 

D 
< 
U 

•J 

•< 

H 

Id 

M 
(A 

M 



CQ 



I 
p 



>v.2 

_ u 

>»« 

** C 

< 



o 



CO 



U9 
(0 

2 

0* 



o 




z 




•x 




(A 




o 




a, 




CO 


fa 


Q 


O 




CO 


a< 


CO 



s5 

u 



so 

CO 

>» 

g 

O. 

•T3 

e 

K 
V 

"S. 

o 

o. 

<: 






a 



>• 

X 

M 
•J 
0. 
O 

< 

O 

CO 
M 
O 

H 
M 

M 

> 



O 

o 

E 

Ki 
o 



C 
v 

CO 



o : 

V ,: 

c C 

«> o 



tt 

»4 

JQ 

(4 4^ 



«• 1 



«t 



I- 

Ji 
too, 

o o, 
03 



!» «- 



g. 

s 

o 

(O 



to 

.s 

o 

CO 



1:5 

^ s 

hS 
ft. tt 
s •> h 

< 



I 

ft. 

o 

CO 

ft) 

CO 

D 

•< 

u 

•4 

■< 

H 
ft) 

CO 
(0 

u 



9 



•8 

•a 

s 

8 



• 
• 
• 


Jk : 


• 
e 




•a 


S 


• 
• 
• 


1 ^ 


ty. B 
gout. 




X 


**4 >WI« 


• 
• 


• 
• 


?§ 


• 


n* 


"^S 


• 

9 

t 


t . 


•§.2 


H 




2^ 


• 


• 
• 




^ 


^ 


« « 


« 


-s 


2 '5 


"o. 


o<S 


J^'S 


a 


as 




<: 


•< 


H 



at 

> 

tt 
« 

to 



« 
ao 

tt 
V 
ca 

•a 

t: 

tt 
at 



o 

as 

»4 

CO 

S| 

2 i 
So 

ft) 0} 

"* ft) 

P4 CO 

u 

U) 



08 

^4 
CO 

>• 

< 

•< 

ft. 
o 

CO 

ft) 
o 

H 

C0 

ft) 
> 



»< 

V 

la. 
o 

a 
< 



SB 

C0 

g 

tt 



• o : 

V o 

**4 
is : 

i> 

s « . 
u • 

aj OJ • 

*^ o 
o6 



. oJ >» 
u C at 

•a o g 
giSS* 






G 
O 

*5 : 
*s 

Be 

cd 

o 5. 

•a 

at « 

S a 



o 






O 
o 



a 






u 
c« 

»4 

tt 

G 

9 



O u «M 
O o 

03 Q 



at I* 
n ^ 

7 10 
Mm G 

® S. 

S^ 
.2 ® 

s« 

go 

ttOM 

« o 




O 

01 

•5 : 

JS 
o 

tt 

J3 cd 
ol w 

o u 



181 



'I 

< 






u 
c 

> 



B 



(0 

M 
u 

C 

g 



It 

V 

I 

•a 

6 


C 

.a 



3 

* > 

a*' 



so 



J3 
u 

a 



9 



> 

at 

6 

9 





i 



DS 

H 

CO 



H 
Z 

H 
(0 
DS 



: 
>> 

M 
O, 

2 ' 

1 = 

s . 

^•« 

♦J c 

Q 



§1 



si 



I 






a 



•a eg 
J> o i 

^5 >» 
H "< S 



s ^ 



c 

•o 

•a 

s 

.a 

o. 

o 






o 

2 

M 

O I 
A. 

So 

5« 



.0) 



•a o • 
5,0 



• OB .. • 
00. — 2 • 



a at 



n 



c 

.a 

O 

c 
o 
•a 

2 
*} 

G 
& 



fa 



ua 

o S 

o "^ 

2 < 

•) OB 

Go «« 

t "8 

& § 

fa n 



M 

O 

H 



00 • 

" s 
SS 



n 



u 

C 

8 



JQ 

Q 






a 



M 

8 

S' 

©a 

w ;? 

« H 
M Q 

^ B« 

H < 

CO o 

CO Q 

2^ 
^^ 

H 






-5 * 

" ^ * 

•3«« : 

a » 
w a 
C.2 • 

CO 

»:§ 
§^ : 

(0'3 9 

u 



o 

41 H 

•a 



: (3 c 
3 •« o. 



«** 



J3 

c 

.a 



S«o 



Una 

(3 U 

u 



o 

I 

X 



I 

^ o 



o "c 
0*3 a 

Ot] o 

« a u 



.Sc 

at 
IS 



i I iH 

> 









•2 o 2 
S6S) 

H 




182 



15 

Hi 



<u"5« 



9 



u 

a 
o 



•a 

•a 

a 

•S. 

"a 

n 






a 



ua 

u 

e 



n 



•S S 8 * 

f^^ P X C 

.•a - o."S 

a g-s « 

0) a OB t (0 
* ^ 3 0«« 



a 

V 



9 
03 



&•- 

O 

SIS 
H 



> • c 

n oD *> 

• -S 
^8c 



a 
2 



r> r> 4> 



_ « ^ P 
„ In 

U S *> 












& 

9 



a 



n 



. 9 



til 



I 

o 

M 

M 
oa 

D 

■< 

o 

•J 
"< 

H 

M 
M 
CO 



09 
01 
V 

CO 






t3 

s 

I 



S : 



s: 






V 

•a 
•a 

§ 

Xi 

o, 
2 






t: 

at 



X 

o 



o 
z 

sa 
qo 

M CO 

« H 

«5 

ao 

o 

u 

M 



01 

OB 






M 



(J 

O 

o 

ca 
H 
a 

H 

CO 

W 
> 

X 



• 


H 


• 
• 


• 

• 


• 


• 


• 


01 : 


m 


s 


• 


• 


• 


• 


• 


s • 

9 


• 


• 


• 


• 
• 


• 


• 
• 


• 


Oi : 


CO 


CO 


CO 


• 


•> 


• 


• 


»*^ 


.15 






^ 




^ 




.jS 


ua 


ua 


M 


V 


JC3 


V 




9 ^ 


u 


o 


u 




u 


»a 


• 


S w 


c 


c 


a 


"fi* 


(3 


o. 


• 


■5 " 


o 


It 


2 


a 


2 


o 


• 


S=3 


n 


n 


n 


<: 


n 


< 




H 


• 
• 
• 


• 
• 
• 


=3 * 


r 




1 
• 


• 
• 
• 


• 
• 
• 






u 


a 


« 


"2 




• 


• 
• 


. 


a: 


•^ : 


• 


§ : 


• 


• 
• 


• 


' 


8 • 


• 


a ' 
o 


S-o 


• 


« 


• 
• 


• 
• 
• 




o 

a : 


1: 
bO * 
- a 

8 


•2§ 
S3 


• 
CO 

1 

-a 


• 


• 
• 
• 

•2 


• 
• 
• 


^ : 


SB 


• 




•8 


• 
• 


JS 




o 


u 8 


o 


s >s 


o 




a 
2 


• 
at 

6 


l§ 


U3 O 


> • 


o p 
g o 

> >% 




• 
• 




t 

6 


11 


II 


11 


eg 


o 


V 


Q 


U 


s 


o 


s 


O 


H 


Q 



09 

a 

9 



»< 

o 

< 



u 



c« 

C 

o 
u 
«> 



CO 

c« 

«> 



t*H CO 

3 ► 



183 



15 

>• « 

5 •> K 

< n, 






^g: 



to 

9 



U3 
u 
C 

2 



CO 

cS 

St 

c 



a 
o 

< 



.2 S 
6 

9 

«^ 
si 

la's. (3 
o o V 

(3 CLco 

n 



«» at 



s 



I 



^* SB 



• * * 

55 w:2 CO 
•2*59 9 



3 

v 

CO 

t: 

cS 
v 



U3 
u 

G 

s 



01 

9 



a> 9 
n O 

XB 



"2 

X 9 

ca 
2rt 



IS 



I 

•a 

|cj| 
S.2-S 

US ga 



o 

CO 
H 
CO 

■< 

o 

•J 
•< 

H 

H 
CO 
CO 

M 



JQ 

s 

ja 

I 



V 

•a 

C3 
c« 

>% 

M 

o 

»4 



I 

o 

a 

< 



ct so 

CO CO 

St) 

c 

^* 

us M 
SI 



I 
•a 



^ 



5 c 
rs o 

.a (3 

< 



(0 I 

o Ot 

•-3 CO 

Ss 

C« o v 

^ •** CO 

111 

< 



•8 

•a 

s 

o, 
o 



•JS 

••4 

c • 



« 

1 
I 



A 



o 

z 

CO 

o 

M O 

o « 

O 
u 

M 



'•3 

o 

«a - 

u 

10 

la 

S 10 

5:8 



CO 



9 . 
O . 

6 
9^ 

43? 
w u 

^« 
^> 

_•« 

•p4 ^^ 

23 



CO 

CS • 

o. 

•o 
c . 
at . 

§•1 

< 



J3 
u 

O 



n 



B9 
CO 

o. 

O 



o. 
o 
o. 



V 

•a 

I 

Oi 

I 

< 



-a 

u 

o 

•J 



c • 



I 



"CO 



• M CS 

cJS 

H 



s 
OS 

HQ 

•>4 

H 

CO 

H 

> 



V o 

2c 



« 9 ^ 
U ^ U 

cl2 

.a* a 



•c ^M 
C « h 

CO •-« 

(0.C3 a 

S2 3 
O ^co 



a 



o2^3 
S-" Jib 

03 



o 



a> o. 
V o 

so 

•si 

a * 
So 

«» s 



« o 
Q 



a *i ' • 

•S C2 • 

>»9 « 

.2 K-o • 
u«a a • 

« CSX . 

• P o. * 
to 

^^ Sf rt 
JO > • 

•« .S 

"** n 
o^5 : 

o iS 
-^ va 

c* n V ^* 



I 

CO 

v 

> 

o 



tttn 

•«« CO 

« 8 

co2 

9 te; 
O . 



01 I • 

:2o.g. 

O «o « 

■** M 

l« — C" 

o ctj 
" S 

en o 

1 8^ 



Q 



ca 

•B 

9 
o 
*} 

(0 
01 

O 

O 

M 



CO 



g 

Q 



3 



I 

(0 

cS 
O, 



CO n 
c 9 

•i3 O 

> 9 

n « 

O ** 

CO § 

o«i3 



■a ws 



c o S • 

c« o g 

•"•3 bo : 

o x.^ 
c '** vo 

^S>.o 





^'•o-C-a 



S^ 



184 



OQ 
OQ 

GQ 



w 

in 
O 

U 



O 
525 

Q 

P 

H 
J2J 



o o 
Mm 



^ M 

CO U 

U 3 

H (0 

[t] O 



o 

in 
< 
H 
0« 
U 
2 



S 

o 

CO O 

a H 
Q ^ z 
z '^ ►- 



Q 

Z 

o 



<fc 






(0 

CO M n 

5 -J 

M •< 



I 

•J 

:3 
p< 

o 

< a; 

n H 

(0 

•< 
H 

CO 



09 . 
H S 

3(3 

K o 

u a 

8 ^ 
^g 
CO A 

2 < 
** fti 



*» >» 
c o< 

u C « 

S.2| 



a 2 o 
rt 5 hi 

2o*a 

.2 § -"3 
goQC 



(S 

1 u 
boet 

a V 



o (0j3 

ec« 

O U^ 9 

•0 OS o 

£SlS 



I 

5 

u 

at 

•J 

C 
o 

C 

I 

o 

a 

2 • 
S)§ 



CO 

e 
o 







.52 • 

'.2 

u 

e 
o 

u 

n 



c 

J3 



O 

CO 

** . 

e CO 

•*< r 

H 



I^a 



c 
o 



CO 



CO 

CO 

CO (Z: « 



•5^ 8 i 



OD 

3* CO 

U M CO . 

« •> V? -* j« «? ••"• 






JS 

u 

a 

S 



8 « 






(0 



c 
•a 



CO 

O 



UJ Q 



5.0 



itf u a 

•O P o-g, 
** o 
H 



c 

ao e 

CO o 
CO 

oU 
O 5 

&>| 

^« 

.20 

Q 



a 
o 
v< 

a 

CO 

a 
o 

U 
c 

9 

H 



o 
c u 



a 

♦^ 
(« 

a 



o 

at o 

Xi 



9 
O 

O 



•2 3 



CO 

JO 






o 

C OB 

u 



s 






e( 



Xi 

bo 
o 

to 

a 



V 
M 

«« 

« 



s 

o 
CO 



, fc "^ M • *J 

b a a «•> -g « g 

^ J3*« 5 V ID !! 

^""- 2 S £ ^ 



S. Q 



a 
o 
o 



t: 

at 



§ 

I— I 

I 

P 



n 
o 
•43 

'-B 
o 

u 

69 



I 



c 
e3 

05 

B 
o 

BO 

-a 

B 

■■% 

a 
o 

I 

e3 
O 

•a 

p 
o 
O 



5 
5 



CO 



p 

<1 



IKTEBDEPENDENCE OF DISEASES, 185 

Having shown the remarkable interdependence which 
-exists between different diseases — ^how they act and react 
upon one another, I must attempt, in this Lecture, to 
show to what extent one vestige of disease, or the several 
vestiges of one disease, may act as essential causes and as 
^iauses of death in other diseases, I will first take some 
Diseases which have no place in the Registrar's report. 
This will enable us to observe how many of the headings 
under which deaths are registered in that report owe their 
existence there to diseases which never figure at all as 
causes of death, 

» 

The first example I have chosen is Anaemia, a name 
4)hat does not appear in the Registrar's Reports. 



Chaptbb X. 
ANJEMIA. 

A careftil examination of the subject teaches us that 
Anaemia is one of the most frequent vestiges of all severe 
diseases when they do not terminate in death j-«-the pa- 
tient remains anaemic during convalescence^ and in a large 
number of cases continues so long after returning to the 
duties of life. Again, we observe that anaemia is contin- 
ually occurring in connection with the periods of puberty 
and the cessation of the catamenia, and that, during the 
intervening years, it is one of the most frequent forms of 
impaired health connected with derangements of men- 
struation, with lactation, with convalescence from the 
puerperal state, and during pregnancy. 

Innumerable other causes may be found for this condi- 
tion, which is, in fact, the type of most of those miserable 
states of health referred to by the Times in the memorable 
article already quoted — " There is a certainty worse than 
any occasional and precarious plague. We may anticipate 
it from our own experience — we may see the great fact 

with our own eyes It is not disease, but it is 

not health. It is a low state of vitality, of physical power, 
of mental energy, of enjoyment, and even of moral 

strength Shocking as it may seem, a plague 

once in twenty years seems but a light evil to so low a 
condition of humanity." 

From a concatenation of circumstances, it so happens 
that the female portion of the population have to support 
the principal weight of this dire , affiction. Anaemiated 
girls, anaemiated brides, anaemiated spinsters, anaemiated 



ANJSMIA. 



187- 



mothers^ abound in the consulting room^ the out-patient 
room, the hospital ward, the home; wherever, in fact 
the physician's duties call him there they are to be found. 
Yet from the long list of diseases named in the mortality 
tables, this name, anaomia, is absent. Is it, then, a thing 
to be endured, but not to be feared ? Is it a name for 
sickness only, and not a cause of death? Quite the reverse,^ 
the fact is that, like some individuals of great influence 
and importance, anaemia travels incognito. When we dis- 
cover its various ^' noms de guerre^^ we are startled to find 
ourselves fece to face with the inpersonation of long- 
dreaded enemies. 



Tabes mesenteries 


\ .18*3 deaths per week 


Croup . 


. 6-8 






Measles 


. 25-0 






Hydrocephalus 


. 32-5 






W hooping-cough. 


. 51-1 






Pneumonia . 


. 60-3 






Dentition . 


. 12-8 






Diarrhooa 


. 17-5 






Convulsions . 


. 36-5 






Bronchitis . 


. 64-5 






Childbirth . 


. 4-3 







329-6 

These are some of the names under which anasmia 
travels among the sick, and takes its place in the bills of 
mortality. The way in which it does so is as stealthy as 
it is deadly. I will tell you something of how it happens. 

'' Among the children of the poor of London, the most 
widely-spread of these diseases (tuberculosis, scrofalosii, 
rickets,) is rickets. It is, however, by no means limited 
to the poor, or to London, or even to large towns.'' I 
quote from one of the most correct medical philosophers of 



188 ANjaiiA. 

modem times. — (Sir W. Jenner, " Lectures on Rickets/' 
Medical Times and Gazette, March 17, 1860). 

'^ Bickets is essentially and purely a disease of nutrition, 
not of one part only, but of the whole body. 

" Rickets causes, primarily or secondarily, more deaths 
than any other disease of childhood. 

'^ The great causes of death in rickets are : — 1. Intensity 
of the general cachexia. 2. Catarrh and bronchitis. 3. 
Albuminoid infiltration of organs, especially of the lym- 
phatic glands and spleen (but also of the liver). 4. 
Laryngismus stridulus. 5. Chronic Hydrocephalus. 6. 
Convulsions. 7. Diarrhoea." 

You see how closely this list of the causes of death in 
rickets corresponds with the list I have just given of what 
I have called the '^ noma de guerre^' of anaomia ; and the 
<X)rrespondence is really closer than it appears at first 
sight. 

" The connection between rickets and laryngismus stri- 
dulus,^' continues Sir William, ^' is very close I 

believe the reason of laryngismus stridulus being so con- 
stantly referred to teething is that the rickety condition 
retards the development of the teeth, and the medical 
practitioner refers the laryngismus to that which, like 
itself, is the consequence of constitutional disease. 

" If a child pass over the ninth month without teeth, 

you should carefully inquire into its cause It may 

be, and this is infinitely the most common cause of late 
dentition, that the child is rickety .'' 

Many deaths, therefore, registered under the head of 
dentition, may be referred to rickets. 

" Catarrh and bronchitis/^ says Sir William, " are un- 

/questionably the most common causes of death in rickets. 

The softening of the ribs rendering the mechanical power 

by which inspiration is performed so defective, that the 



ANEMIA. 18&' 

impediment offered to the entrance of the air by the 
mucus in the bronchial tubes cannot be overcome ; and 
collapse of large portions of the lung follows. 

'' This want of inspiratory power, and the consequent 
accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes, affords an 
explanation of the extraordinary mortality of measles, 
whooping cough, and bronchitis in rickety subjects.'^ 

Thus may we refer two more of the headings of the 
Eegistrar — Measles and whooping cough — to rickets. 

For similar reasons, and still more from the intensity of 
the general cachexia and the corresponding defect in the 
vital force, rickets will be found to be the true cause of 
fatality in many of the deaths registered under the name 

of PNEUMONIA. 

Then we have the deaths from childeieth 4*3 per week, 
and it is very interesting to trace out the influence of 
rickets in causing these miserable deaths. The mode of 
its operation is twofold. First, there is the large size of 
the head in the rickety foetus ; and, secondly, deformities 
of the pelvis in women who have been rickety in their 
childhood. On examining into the causes of death in 
childbirth, as carefully collated by Dr. E. Collins, of the 
Dublin lying-in hospital, I find that of eighty-one cases of 
death during parturition, thirty-two were due to rupture 
of the uterus, eleven to tedious or diflBcult labour. If we, 
then, inquire into the causes of rupture of the uterus and 
tedious or difiBcult labour, to which forty-three out of 
eighty-one deaths were due, we find that narrowing and 
deformity of the pelvis, and abnormal size of the child^s 
head, stand prominently forward in their importance; and 
thus we are brought back to rickets as the chief cause of 
these deaths. 

But you will perhaps ask, how anaemia is proved to be 
the cause of the deaths under these different headings, by 



190 ANiEMIA. 

proving that they are due to rickets ? That is, in fact, 
the important question. The answer is this, that anosmia 
in the mother 'produces rickets in, the child, and ancemia 
in the child inay lead to rickets also. This may be as 
familiar to you all as it is to me ; but I will give you the 
authority of Sir William Jenner again, who has devoted 
great attention to this subject : — 

" The health of the mother has a decided influence in 

the development of rickets in the offspring Of this 

much, I am sure — that when the mother is in delicate 
health, in a state of which anosmia and general want of 
power form the prominent features, without being the 
subject of disease usually so-called, there the children are 
often in a very decided degree rickety, although the father 
is in robust health, and the hygienic conditions in which 
the children are placed are most favourable. It is very 
common for the first two or three children to be free from 
any signs of rickets, and yet for every subsequent child to 
be rickety. 

'^Whatever external conditions are favourable to the 
formation of hydraBoiic blood in a child, seem to be favour- 
able to the development of rickets. 

^^ Albuminoid infiltration of the lymphatic glands, 
spleen, and other organs is by no m^ans an uncommon 
cause of death in rickets. The two great features, during 
life, of albuminoid infiltration of these organs in a young 
child, are emaciation and pallor ; the ancemia is often most 
remarkable.^^ 

You will not fail, then, to see at once the intimate 
connection between rickets and anaemia, and between 
anaemia and that list of terrible names in the Eegistrar's 
Eeports. 

I do not wish you to suppose that I attribute all the 
deaths under those headings to anaemia : that would be a 



ANiEMIA. 191 

great mistake. Bat from an elaborate and carefal analy- 
sis of such deaths, I have found, and you may find, that a 
very large, a very remarkably large, proportion of them 
are due to anaemia in the individual, or to anaemia in 
a parent and rickets in the offspring. It is important 
to bear in mind, that, with the exception of hydrocepha- 
lus, the diseases I have enumerated from the mortality- 
tables are extremely common every-day complaints — that 
they occur and terminate favourably thousands of times 
every year; that it is only the fatal cases that come into 
our list, and with which we are now concerned. And 
what I have endeavoured to show, and what I wish to 
impress upon you is, that we must look to anaemia as the 
chief cause of this fatality ; that it is anaemia in the in- 
dividual or anaemia in a parent that brings these remedia- 
ble, every-day complaints into the bills of mortality. 

When, therefore, we see anaemia estabUshing itself, as 
a vestige of the diseases from which our convalescents 
have lately suffered, or in any other way, we must regard 
it as the grim harbinger of death in a vast family of 
diseases. 

The next example I shall give is Fatty degeneration 
which like the last does not appear in the Registrar's 
Reports. 



Chapter XI. 
FATTY DEGENERATION. 

In the present day, we have all learnt that ^' something 
much more than a general tendency to form fat, or a 
general excess of fat in the blood is necessary to produce 
a local fatty degeneration." — (Sir James Paget^s Lectures, 
Vol. I., p. 112). 

Every year throws new light on the physiology of the 
process by which this change is brought about ; but of 
this it is not within the province of these Lectures to 
treat. I wish, however, to point out to you that the 
pathological condition termed fatty degeneration is to be 
regarded as a vestige of disease — a vestige of perverted 
assimilation, either local or general, and hence a vestige 
also of any diseases by which such perverted assimilation 
is produced. In the third series of Ouy^s Hospital Reports 
(Vol. iii. 1857), Dr. Wilks has related a number of in- 
teresting cases of fatty degeneration, of which the only 
appreciable and probable causes were haemorrhage, diar- 
rhoea, miasmata. In these cases the subjects were com- 
paratively young, the heart was the organ in which the 
diseased change was most marked, and the body gener- 
ally was neither fat nor wasted. 

Patty degeneration appears to be especially prone to 
occur in tissues which have passed from a condition of 
active assimilation to one of comparatively inactive or 
feeble nutrition, by whatever cause this change may have 
been brought about. Thus, the muscular tissue is parti- 
cularly subject to fatty degeneration; it is also peculiar 
for the vigour of its normal assimilation, and it is when 



PATTY DEaBNBRATION. 198 

this is rendered feeble that degeneration occurs. This 
appears to be the case whether the vigorous assimilation 
is hindered by arrest of function in the muscles, as in the 
case of paralyzed limbs, or by deficient supply of blood, as 
in disease of the nutrient arteries of a part, or by a de- 
praved condition of the blood supplied to the part, as in 
the case of persons who, after having led active muscular 
lives, gradually become anaamiated by passive hasmor- 
rhages. I have seen many instances of strong men, ac- 
customed to vigorous country occupations, who, having 
become the subjects of bleeding haemorrhoids, by which 
the blood lost its red globules, and nutrition became en- 
feebled, suffered from degeneration of their previously 
strong and vigorous hearts. Many other examples might 
be adduced of the degeneration of tissues when their 
assimilation is changed from a vigorous to a feeble state. 
Thus we find, in watching the course of diseases of the 
heart, that the heart which has become hypertrophied in 
opposing some obstruction to the circulation during the 
active life of the individual, becomes degenerated when, 
in the further progress of the case, the patient is forced to 
relinquish active pursuits, and thus ceases to call upon 
the hypertrophied organ for the full exercise of its muscu- 
lar power. Thus, also, parts which have been inflamed 
are especially liable to degenerate, and fatty degeneration 
frequently takeu place in organs deprived of their proper 
functions by disease, as in kidneys spoilt by Bright^s 
disease. Thus, also, the products of inflammation, when 
they have no further functions to perform, are peculiarly 
subject to fatty degeneration. Without pressing the 
subject further, I think we shall all agree that fatty de- 
generation must be regarded as a vestige of disease, not 
as a disease in itself, and that in thus regarding it, we 



194 rATTT DEOENEBATION. 

mnst often look beyond the defect in assimilation to the 
causes of that defect^ in order to find the disease of which 
the degeneration is truly a vestige. 

I must now proceed to show to what a wide extent this 
vestige of disease acts as a cause of those deaths classed in 
the Begistrar's reports under the heads of a variety of dis- 
eases. 

"The most interesting examples (of fatty degeneration)/^ 
Bays Sir James Paget, "are those oiprimary degeneration 
of blood-vessels. This has long been known in the atherO' 
matous disease^ as it was called^ of the larger arteries^ the 
true nature of which^ as a fatty and calcareous degenera- 
tion of the inner and^ consecutively^ of the middle arterial 
coat, was discovered by Mr. Gulliver (see Med. Chir. Tran- 
sactions, Vol. XX VL) The descriptions of this complaint 
by him and by Bokitansky have lefb nothing unsaid that 
is yet known; but the observations are each year becom- 
ing more numerous and more interesting of similar changes 
in the minutest blood-vessels. Such changes are especially 
observable in the minutest cerebral vessels, and their im- 
portance in relation to afoplext, of which they seem to be 
the most frequent precedent, cannot be overstated/^ — 
{Ibid., Vol. I., p. 139). 

Dr. Wilks^ experience has taught him that, ''In the 
majority of cases of sanguineous appolexy, disease of the 
blood-vessels exists.'^ — (Lectures on PathologicQ,l Anatomy, 
1859). 

Dr. Kirkes has shown (Med. Chir. Transactions, YoL 
XXXV.) that FASALYSis, consequent upon arrested circula- 
tion in some portion of brain, is frequently the result of 
the obstruction of healthy cerebral arteries by masses of 
fibrine carried into them, after being dislodged firom the 
valves of the left side of the heart, or from some part of 
the arterial system. 



FATTY DEaENERATION. 195 

And Dr. Ormerod has pointed out that it is in the ca- 
chetic subjects^ with feeble circulations^ that such masses 
4ure likely to form in the heart, in the very persons, in fact, 
who are likely to be the subjects of fatty degeneration of 
this organ. — [Observations on the Clinical History and 
Pathology of one form of Fatty Degeneration of the Heart, 
by E. L. Ormerod, M.D. Medical Gazette, 1849). 

And although Dr. Ormerod was not prepared at that 
time (1849) to consider the occurrence of fibrinous clots 
in the subjects of fatty degeneration to be more than a 
frequent coincidence, we do not now doubt that the lan- 
guid circulation, and the inefficient contractions of the 
heart in the subjects of fatty degeneration, act, together 
with other circumstances, in causing these deposits of 
^brine from the blood. 

Describing the appearances after death in fatal cases of 
©BMRiUM TREMENS, Dr. Wilks says, '^The body, as a rule, 
presents many degenerative changes, brought about by 
the intemperate habits. It is this alteration of the viscera, 
I think, to which death is owing. Delirium tremens is a 
recoverable affection until such changes have ^occurred in 
the tissues that improvement is no longer possible ; and 
we then find in the body various morbid changes. These 
4ure mostly of the fatty kind, as all alcoholic drinks tend to 
this condition.^^ — {Ibid,) 

In Angina Pectoris, again. Dr. Wilks, in common with 
other observers, has found that '^ the heart is usually fatty, 
and the coronary arteries ossified."- {Ibid.) 

"It is impossible,^^ says Dr. Ormerod {Op. cit.), "to read 
any collection of cases of angina pectoris without feeling 
how much further fatty degeneration goes to explain the 
symptoms than does any other morbid change usually 
found on dissection.^^ 



o 2 



196 FATTY DEGBNEEATION. 

Sir James Paget classes the heart and arteries first 
among the frequent seats of fatty degeneration. — (Op. cit., 
Vol. I., p. 116). 

Among the vessels of which the coats have been found 
degenerated are those of the lungs and placenta; and 
pulmonary or uterine haemorrhages may result from thia 
state of the vessels. 

Against the extreme vital depression which accom- 
panies such diseases as pbbitonitis^ influenza^ and diab- 
BH(EA^ the subjects of fatty degeneration have no resisting 
power; they are among the first to succumb; and thus 
fatty degeneration becomes a cause of death in these and 
other depressing diseases when they attack adults. 

Out of 164 deaths from Childbirth in the Dublin Hos- 
pital^ during the seven years ending November, 1826, a& 
recorded by Dr. E. Collins, I find thirty-two attributed ta 
rupture of the uterus, and eleven to tedious or difficult 
labour. Eecent investigations into the causes of rupture 
of the uterus, show that fatty degeneration of its walls is 
a most frequent if not a constant coincidence. 

Fatty degeneration of the uterus, then, is a cause of 
death in childbirth by producing or disposing to rupture 
of the organ ; but it has yet another influence on these 
deaths, for we may be quite sure that a degree of degen- 
eration must often exist, not sufficient to lead to rupture, 
but quite sufficient to render the organ incompetent 
to vigorous muscular contraction, even under the in- 
fluence of unusual stimuli. And thus it may become 
the cause of those hopelessly tedious labours which, as 
we have seen, assist to swell the death-rate in parturi- 
tion. 

Thus do we see that among the rational causes of dread 
that haunt the brain of the accoucheur during a tedious 



PATTY DBaBNBEATIOlf. 197 

labour^ fatty degeneration of the nterus has a right to 
stand foremost. 

In Pneumonia^ Dr. Wilks say that, in '^ far the majority 
of fatal cases, some pre-existing and more chronic disease 
is found in some organ of the body.^^ — (Op. cit.J 

Speaking of the probabilities of death in pneumonia. 
Dr. Walshe has made the following very well-considered 
observation : — 

^' There are certain other circumstances (besides treat- 
ment) beyond the control of the physician, which exercise 
a most indubitable influence on the issue (of pneumonia). 
Among these, the pre-existence of organic disease and the 
state of health generally of the individual hold an important 
place. But of all the collateral conditions, age is the most 
important. While at the two extremities of life, in the 
new-born infant and in the octogenarian, pneumonia is 
almost inevitably fatal, the mortality between the ages of 
six and twelve years scarcely exceeds two-and-a-half per 
cent." — (Manual of Diseases of the Chest, 2nd edition, 
p. 438). 

To this I would add, that the octogenarian may be 
represented at any period of life by the subject of fatty 
degeneration. 

I need hardly remind you that, in protracted Chronic 
Bronchitis there is no one feature more fearfiilly pro- 
gnostic of a fatal issue, sooner or later, than the co-ex- 
istence of fatty-degeneration. 

In speaking of Senile Gangrene, Sir James Paget says 
it occurs, '^ as its name implies, in the old, and often in 
4ihose who are old in structure, rather than in years ; it 

affects tissues already degenerate I think that, in 

some cases, its beginning may be when the progressive 
•degeneration of the part has arrived at death. But, if 



198 rATTT DBQXNSBATION. 

this do not happen^ some iujuiy or disease^ even a trivial 
one^ kills that which was already nearly dead^ as a severe 
injury might kill any part^ however actively alive/' — 
fOp. cit, Vol. I., p. 461). 

Under the heads of Liveb-disease^ Jaundice^ and 
Kidney-disease^ I may mention some interesting case& 
examined by Eokitansky. (On Fatal Steatosis — Fatty 
Degeneration — of the Liver and Kidneys.) 

''The cases referred to consisted in steatosis of tho 
liver^ accompanied by a high degree of steatosis of the 
kidneys. Their importance rests upon the possibility of 
proving them to be parellel to the cases of acute atrophy 
of the liver^ and the analogous renal affection which co- 
exists with it. 

'' It is evident that in our cases we have not to deal 
with that steatosis of the Uver which occurs so commonly 
in the course of consuming suppurative processes^ but 
with/a% livers f as they not rarely develope themselves to 
a high degree^ at the side of an abundant formation of fat 
in the areolar tissue^ without the disease being always 
attributable to gross feeding. 

'' There exists thus a steatosis of the liver, occurring in 
individuals inclined to the formation of fat, to which 
sooner or later a steatosis of the kidney is added^ both 
which diseases attain slowly and imperceptibly so high a 
degree that, finally, a cessation of the biliary and urinary 
secretion supervenes, and, after a slight degree of icterus, 
death rapidly sets in from anaemia and a haBmorrhagia 
decomposition of the blood.'' — (Banking's Abstract^ VoL 
XXXI., p. 40). 

I might prolong this subject much further — ^so widely 
spread is the influence of this seemingly spontaneous- 
atrophy, this Vestige of disease. I might give you quota* 



FATTT DEGENERATION. 199 

tions from reliable authorities to show in how many more 
diseases than I have yet referred to^ the fatality is deter- 
mined by fatty degeneration ; but I should exhaust your 
patience and overstep our time. I will, therefore, con- 
clude the list by simply enumerating the causes to which 
death was attributed in sixty-eight cases analysed by Dr. 
Quain, in all of which there was fatty degeneration. — 
(Med.'Ghir, Transactions, 1850). 

List of causes to which death was attributed in sixty- 
eiglit cases of fatty degeneration. 

Eupture of the heart. Cancrum oris. 

Exhaustion. Gradual decay. 

Coma. Lcthargie. 

Pleuropneumonia. Haamorrhage into the pericardium. 

Syncope anginosa. Cerebral haemorrhage. 

Cardiac apoplexy. Diarrhoea. 

Syncope. Gangrene of the intestines. 

I must briefly remind you, in the words of Sir James 
Paget, that 'Tatty degeneration of the heart often intro- 
duces unexpected dangers into the ordinary practice of 
surgery. It is, I believe, not rarely the cause of sudden 
death after operations. It is one of the conditions in 
which chloroform should be administered with more than 
ordinary caution. They who labour under it may be fit 
for all the ordinary events of a calm and quiet life, but 
they are unable to resist the storm of sickness, an acci- 
dent, or an operation.^^^ — {Op. cit., Vol. I., p. 129.) 

To sum up j we have seen that this vestige of disease, 
fatty degeneration, may claim as its victims a certain 
number of deaths out of each of the following headings of 
the Registrar's report : — 



200 



FAITT DKGKIIEBATIOM. 



Apoplexy . 


> 4 


, 26-0 d« 


i&ths per T 


vee 


Paralysis 


• 


23-7 


» 


>i 


Delirium tremens 


and 








intemperance • 


• 


4-5 


» 


}> 


Angina pectoris 


and 




« 




other diseases of the 








heart 




, 31-9 


» 


» 


Pneumonia . 




, 60-3 


>i 


>y 


Diarrhoea 


« 


17-5 


>> 


>i 


Mortification 




4-6 


>f 


)f 


Influenza 




. 3-1 


yy 


» 


Peritonitis . 




4-4 


» 


y> 


Childbirth . 




. 4-3 


>> 


iy 


Bronchitis . 




. 64-5 


i> 


>> 


Jaundice 




. 2-8 


it 


■>> 


Liver disease 




. no 


>> 


>> 


Elidney disease 




. 4-9 


a 


yy 



263*5 deaths per week ; 
out of which fatty degeneration claims so large a share. 



Chapter XII. 

ABNOEMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

We pass on^ Gentlemen^ to another and most important 
branch of our subject. 

I must now speak more at length of those states of 
health to which I referred in my second Lecture, when I 
said that I should impress upon you that '^ they are inti- 
mately related to the definitely marked diseases^^ — those 
states so puzzling lo the young practitioner, because they 
do not fall under any of the nosological headings which 
have been his landmarks in the study of disease — those 
states which, although perhaps familiar in their aspect to 
most old practitioners, are, nevertheless, most ineflSiciently 
treated, or not treated at all, because their interpretation 
is so little understood, and because their importance is not 
appreciated ; conditions which are not recognised as disease, 
hut which certainly are not health, and which I propose to 
class under the general heading of " Abnormal Physiolo- 
<3iCAL States.^^ I will give you some examples of what 
I mean. 

A family of four children were exposed to the infection 
of measles at the same time, and &om the same source ; 
all of them were supposed to he in health at the time. One 
had the measles simply and' slightly ; one had a severe 
attack of pneumonia combined with it; one indicated a 
disposition to typhoid symptoms, and was completely op- 
pressed by the morbid poison ; a fourth lingered in con- 
valescence, and was found to have become the subject of 
a deposit of tubercles in the lungs. 

A party of &iends, all apparently in what is called 



202 ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

healthy met at a faneral ; they went together into a damp 
unwarmed cemetery chapel on a raw winter's day, and 
returned together, one and all complaining that they had 
taken ^' a severe chill/' They dined together and went to 
their homes. One suffered an attack of rheumatic fever; 
one had anasarca ; one jaundice ; another bronchitis ; a 
fifth pneumonia ; a sixth diarrhoea ; a seventh had ery- 
sipelas; and another had pleurisy. One coughed up a 
quantity of blood ; while the rest got a restless night, and 
a cold in the head, and thought no more about it. These 
are no imaginary stories ; analogous cases frequently occur 
within the experience of medical men in large practice. 
But what is their interpretation? Why did the same 
cause — the chill — ^produce such different effects, under 
external conditions, apparently the same ? No doubt, 
the first answer which suggests itself is, that the circum- 
stances, so apparently the same, must have been really 
different. Well, Gentlemen, I will admit that, as the first 
step towards solving the difficulty. But I will insist that 
in a given case, the cause, so far as the chill is concerned, 
shall be the same in each individual; and the circum- 
stances, so far as they are external, shall be the same for 
each individual. Nevertheless, these different effects shall 
be produced ; and the reason we shall find to be this, that 
there are other causes and other circumstances, different 
in each case, existing within the organisms of the sufferers, 
with which the one cause— the chill — has to combine in 
producing its effect, and that the effect is the result of 
this combination of causes, different in each individual. 

Some of you, perhaps, will say that this simply means 
that the different effects are explained by the different 
idiosyncrasies of the individual. And I must, warn you 
against adopting a word as the explanation of a difficulty, 
lest in doing so, you fail to investigate the multitude of 



ABNOBMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 203" 

facts which that word may represent. I have no objection 
to the word, so long as you bear in mind that you must 
be able to explain what it means^ if it is to be accepted as 
any explanation at all. Professor Bernard has spoken 
well on this subject: "I discovered/^ he says, "that 
section of large divisions of the sympathetic nerve was- 
apparently unattended with the slightest inconvenience, 
as long as the health of these animals (rabbits) remained 

perfect but as soon as a general debilitation of the 

system arose from want of proper nourishment, acute 
inflammation was produced in the organs deprived of ner- 
vous influence. We had, therefore, succeeded in artifi- 
cially creating particular idiosyncrasies in these animals, 
and could predict with certainty, that, as soon as health 
failed, disease would arise at a given point. Morbid pre- 
dispositions must, therefore, be viewed in the light or 
peculiar physiologicial conditions.^^ And he concludes 
thus: ^*Let me advise you not to consider idiosyncra- 
sies in the light of mysterious powers residing within 
the depths of our organs, nor as entirely novel functions 
superadded, as it were, to those which already exist. 
They must be viewed as mere manifestations of the ordi- 
nary laws of physiology .^^ — (Beenaed, Lecture F., Medical 
Times and Gazette), 

Health, Gentlemen, is the normal physiological state; 
and peculiarities in, or divergencies from this condition 
must be regarded as greater or less deviations from health, 
(abnormal physiological states) in proportion as they pre- 
dispose to contingencies which increase the probabiUties 
of death before the normal term. 

There are very few persons who pass through life in 
the normal physiological state. At some period of life 
almost every individual diverges, more or less, from this^ 
state in one direction or, another; and during that diver* 



204 ABNORMAL FHTSJOLOGICAL STATES. 

gence^ although escaping an attack of what is recognised 
as disease^ he certainly is not in fvealth ; and in almost 
^very individual there is a tendency to diverge in some 
particular direction, during which divergence — i.e.^ during 
that period of deranged health — he is particularly prone to 
certain classes of disease. In the case I have taken as an 
example of the eflFects of chill for instance : — the man who 
had rheumatic fever, was already surcharged with acid. 
He who had jaundice was suffering from defective ex- 
cretion by the liver, requiring only a certain increase in 
the defect, or of the demands upon the excreting function, 
to throw the secretion back into the blood. The patient 
who had anasarca was suffering either from hydraamia, or 
from defect in the excreting powers of the kidneys. The 
sufferer from bronchitis I attended myself: he had 
chronic congestion of the bronchi, from repeated former 
Attacks of bronchitis, and the circulation through his chest 
was defective, from a feeble, degenerated heart ; but he 
had been accustomed to pass as a man in health, compe- 
tent to perform the onerous duties of a tax-collector and 
counfcy-court agent. He who had an attack of diarrhoea, 
found in his bile ducts or in the intestinal mucous mem- 
brane a safety valve, by which he was saved from either 
anasarca, jaundice, or rheumatic fever. The subjects of 
erysipelas and pneumonia, and the man who had hasmo- 
ptysis, were already suffering from depraved states of the 
blood, or of the organs to which it was determined; and 
from which, in the last two cases, it escaped in different 
quantities ; while the patient who was attacked with pleu- 
risy, was surcharged with urea from defective action of his 
kidneys. 

These several persons, therefore, were suffering, when 
they considered themselves in health — before the occur- 
rence of the chill — from abnormal physiological states to 



ABNORMAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 20& 

which we can attribute the particular form of the disease 
which was set up, by the addition, in each case, of one and 
the same cause, viz,, the chill. — But some escaped unhurt ! 
Because in them the physiological state was suflSiciently 
normal that a resisting and re-actionary power existed, 
■which was competent speedily to restore the functions of 
the organs subjected to the shock of the chill, and to 
make them compensate for the temporary arrest by in- 
creased activity. 

I have chosen this group of somewhat crude examples 
on purpose, that their meaning may be the more perspi- 
cuous. They, most of them, exemplify states of health 
dependent on the fluids and excretory organs of the body. 
It would be' easy to bring many examples of degraded 
health consequent on disease attributable to the nervous 
system. 

* * * * It 

I assume, then, that (in the course of these lectures) I 
have sufficiently demonstrated that the vestiges of disease 
stand first among the causes of death. 

I have shown that so long as these vestiges exist they 
are causes of defect in the vital force, and thus act as 
factors of the essential and of the predisposing causes of 
fresh attacks of disease. 

I have shown that the diseases, from which these ves- 
tiges result, are but the manifestations of pre-existent 
physiological states, to which, by some means, the last 
condition has been supplied, necessary to complete the 
conditions of existence proper to the disease, which then 
is developed in its characteristic features. 

I have shown that these abnormal physiological states 
are indicated by the various conditions of impaired gene- 
ral health, " conditions not recognised as disease, but 
which certainly are not health/' 



206 ABNOBKAL PHYSIOLOGICAL STATES. 

The sum of it is this : — 

1. The majority of diseases which we see excited by the 
various accidents of life are but the manifestations of pre- 
existent abnormal physiological states^ which required 
only this last condition (the accident of life) to complete 
their development into the characteristic features of dis- 
ease. 

2. Those conditions ''not recognised as disease^ but 
which certainly are not health^^' are tho faint expressions 
of these morbid physiological states^ while still deficient in 
the condition necessary to complete their development 
into the recognised features of disease. 

3. The multifarious and anomalous functional derange- 
ments which puzzle the physician^ and make martyrs of 
the patients^ depend^ for the most part^ upon the influence 
exerted by these morbid physiological states over the or- 
dinary incidents of animal existence^ which are thereby 
modified^ coloured^ and distorted. 

4. During the whole of the time that the physiological 
conditions are disturbed^ there is a greater or less defect 
in the vital force^ and this defect^ therefore^ exists at a 
period anterior to what are usually understood as structu- 
ral changes. 

I have shown that these abnormal physiological states^ 
recognisable under various forms of impaired health and 
attended by a legion of anomalous symptoms^ may be 
traced back to still earlier periods in their history^ when 
they require the greatest vigilance of the physician to 
detect any deviation from the standard of normal health. 

Then I endeavoured to show in what direction we must 
look for the causes of these earliest and most occult devia- 
tions from the normal physiological state. 

With this intention I pointed out that the '' conditions 
of life^' and the ''vestiges of disease^^ have a direct in- 



ABNOBMAL PHTSIOLOGICAL 8TATE8. 207 

flnence on the vital force ; that the alterations in it are 
transmissible to the germs of a succeeding generation; 
and that thus defects of force may be due to abnormal 
conditions of life in the individual^ and to the vestiges^ or 
vestiges of vestiges of disease in an ancestor. And I wish 
to draw your marked attention in this place to the fact^ 
that it is to these defects transmitted from an ancestor , and 
to the conditions of life in the individual, that we must 
especially look for the causes of those first insidious devia- 
tions from health, which I have called ^' abnormal physio- 
logical states/^ 

As I have shown that these incipient and insidious 
degradations of the vital force exist at a period anterior to 
such changes as are understood by the terms structural 
and organic^ I think you will now understand why I said 
in my last Lecture^ that there could be no fact in Medicine 
of greater practical importance than this. My reason 
was — that the very dependence upon the conditions of life 
which exposes the force in the individual to degradation 
under i^nfavourable conditions^ must render it amenable to 
elevation under the influence of conditions which are 
favourable. And thus we learn that there is a possibility 
of cure in states that would otherwise be beyond the reach 
of treatment. 



APPENDIX. 



I. 

Alcohol. 
(Leading Article from the Lancbt, Jamumj Ist^ 1870.) 

" After a great many floctaations, profesBional opinion upon 
the question of alcoholic stimulation in disease appears to hare 
recently achieved some real progress towards the establisb- 
ment of satisfactory principles. There are still very wide di- 
Tergencies between different authorities, and we fear that there 
is still a good deal of extreme and irrational practice, both in 
the direction of excessive stimulation, and of the opposite fault 
of an unreasonable fear of the remedy. But it seems to us 
that the outlines of a greatly improved knowledge, both of the 
therapeutic powers, and the capacity for mischief which alcohol 
possesses, may now be discerned. 

'' In the first place, as regards acute diseases attended with 
febrile phenomena, three things are tolerably plain. The first 
ist, that alcohol when it acts well, acts as an antiphlogistic 
stimulant ; that is to say, it lowers abnormally high tempera- 
ture, it reduces the frequency of the pulse, and, while raising 
nervous power, it calms those disturbances of the nervous 
system which attend, if they are not caused by, the elevated 
temperature of the blood in pyrexia. The second great fact is, 
that there are the utmost differences between different pyrexial 
patients as to their capacity for receiving benefit in this way ; 
that a large number of persons, especially among the young 
and previously robust, do best without any alcohol ; and that 
among those to whom it is beneficial, there are some for whom 
three ounces of wine per diem is fully the physiological and 
therapeutical equivalent of twenty-four ounces given to another 

P 



210 APPENDIX. 

and smaller class of patients; and tbat nothing bat careful 
tentative nse of the remedy can tell, in any particular case, 
whether it is needed, and, if so, in what quantities. In short, 
that all generalisations to the eiSect that you must, or must not 
give wine by ounces, or by bottles, in fevers or in inflammations 
generally, are worthless and misleading. The third settled fact 
is this, that it is often in those cases where alcohol used (on 
purely theoretical grounds) to be thought most dangerous — viz,, 
in cases with very high temperature and flushed face — that it 
produces its best effects ; and that to pour large quantities of 
stimulants into a fever patient simply because he is pale, and 
has a small pulse, is an unwarrantable proceeding. 

" The above are certainties and the following are probabilities. 

^' It is probable that alcohol owes part of its influence in fevera 
to an antiseptic agency, by which it destroys the activity of cer- 
tain bodies — call them organisms, or not, as you please — ^by 
means of which the contagium sets up the febrile disturbance 
within the blood. In the case of inflammation, it is probable^ 
that alcohol, when it acts well, does so in part because it stimu- 
lates the sympathetic and contracts the arterioles, and in part 
interferes with the migration of blood-corpuscles through the 
vascular walls, as Binz and his pupils have shown that quinine^ 
can also do. It is probable that so far as alcohol can be applied 
to these purposes within the organism, it is of unmixed benefit. 
And there is much reason to believe that the singular differ-^ 
ences between different individuals, as to the quantity of alcohol 
they can bear, depend on some unexplained difference in the- 
respeotive rapidity with which alcohol is oxidised in the blood 
in different persons. For it is now known with certainty, on 
the one hand, that nearly the whole, even of a poisonous dose, 
is always oxidised in the body, and on the other hand, that 
the presence of large quantities of unchanged alcohol for any 
length of time in the blood, inevitably poisons the nervous sys- 
tem. The antiseptic action, and the influence on the migrative 
tendency of the corpuscles, are most likely produced imme^ 
diately that the alcohol mingles with the blood ; it probably 



APPENDIX. 211 

depends on the subsequent progress of oxidation whether the 
general eiSect on the patient will be good or bad. One thing is 
certain ; if signs of narcotism — i.e., paralysis of the nervous 
system — are produced, the alcohol is doing harm and must be 
immediately diminished or stopped. 

*' As regards chronic diseases, we are sorry to obserTO that 
there is very much less of intelligent progress in medical 
opinion than in the case of acute diseases. It is much to be re- 
gretted that a large number, even of highly-educated practi- 
tioners, will persist in acting on the assumption that in non- 
febrile diseases the amount of alcohol to be administered ought 
to be measured by the degree of debility, merely as such. The 
direct and very mischievous corollary of this is the practice, 
unfortunately daily increasing, of prescribing stimulants with 
lavish profusion in those numerous nervous affections to which 
weakly persons (more especially women) are prone. It is our 
duty, as medical journalists, to raise our voices to the utmost 
against this tendency. We are no bigots against alcohol; and 
we are heartily sick of the unthinking abuse which has been la- 
vished on what it is the fashion to call ' indiscriminate stimu- 
lation in acute disease.' We declare our belief that the real 
mischief lies at the door of those who are indiscriminate (be- 
cause they are unthinking and illogical) in their prescription 
of alcohol for debility, merely as such. It is no figure of speech, 
but the literal truth, when we say that hundreds of neuralgic, 
hysteric, and epileptic patients have been driven into drunken- 
ness or lunacy, or both, by the careless folly of advisers, who 
had no better reason for the prescription of large doses of alco- 
hol than the fact that these diseases are attended with nervous 
weakness as they undoubtedly are. The assumption involv- 
ed — ^that so much ingested alcohol is necessarily so much added 
nervous strength — is so gross a fallacy that no one would as- 
sent to it if expressed in plain words. Yet we constantly see 
it acted upon. We repeat with all the energy of which we are 
capable, that it is a grave scandal and mischief that medical 
men should endanger in this serious way the powers of moral 

p2 



212 APPENDIX. 

resistance of women and otber weak persons while basing their 
practice npon ideas that are illogical and untenable ; and we 
trast that a reform in this respect will immediately be com- 
menced." 



II. 

FROM THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY No. 120, 1870. 

Experiments on the effects of Alcohol (ethyl Alcohol) on 
THE HUMAN BODY, By B. A. Parkes, M.D., F.R.S., Pro/esww 
of Hygiene in Army Meddcal School, and Count Cyprian 
WoUowicz, M.D., Assistcmt Swgeon, Army Medical Staff, 

'' As a knowledge of the physiological effects of alcohol on 
the human body is a matter of great importance, and as pre- 
vious observations leave some points in doubt, we took the op- 
portunity which the willingness and zeal of a very intelligent 
healfchy soldier afforded us of investigating this subject. 

" In order not to lengthen the paper, we have given only our 
own observations, without referring to those of others. 

" The plan of observation was as follows : — For twenty-six 
days the man remained on a diet precisely similar as to food 
and times of meals in every respect, except that for the first 
eight days he took only water (in the shape of coffee, tea, and 
simple water) ; for the next six days he added to this diet rec- 
tified spirit, in such proportion that he took in divided quanti- 
ties on the first day one fluid ounce (= 28*4 cub. centims). of 
absolute alcohol ; on the second day two fluid ounces ; on the 
third day four ounces, and on the fifth and sixth days eight 
ounces on each day. He then returned to water for six days, 
and then for three days took on each day half a bottle (= 12 
ounces, or 341 c.c.) of fine brandy, containing 48 per cent, of 
alcohol. Then for three days more he returned to water. 

" There were thus five periods, viz. of water-drinking, alco 
hoi, water, brandy, water. 



APPENDIX. 213 

'' Before commencing the experiments, the man, who had 
been accustomed to take one or two pints of beer dailj, ab- 
stained altogether from anj alcoholic liquid for ten days. 

'^This man, F. B., is twenty-eight years of age, 5 feet 6 
inches in height, and his usual weight is 134 or 136 lbs. He 
is finely formed, with little fat, and with largely developed 
powerful muscles ; he has a clean smooth skin, a clear bright 
eye, good teeth, and is in all respects in perfect health. He is 
very intelligent, and assisted us so much that we are quite cer- 
tain that there has not been a mistake even for a minute in the 
time of taking the temperatures and passing the urine. As he 
had always been accustomed to smoke, we thought it proper to 
allow him half an ounce of tobacco daily, for fear the depriva- 
tion of it might disturb his health. 

'^ In addition to the experiments recorded in this paper, we 
tested the accuracy of his vision, and the muscular power before 
and during the use of alcohol ; but as we could not detect any 
difference, we do not give the experiments. 

''Our object being to test. the dietetic effects of alcohol, we 
gave it in small and large quantities, but avoided producing 
any extreme symptoms of narcotism. (Here follow in the 
original paper twenty-seven pages of carefully detailed experi- 
ments)." 

GENEBAL CONCLUSIONS. 

" 1. One and two fluid ounces (28*4 c. c. and 66*8 c. o.) of 
absolute alcohol given in divided quantities in 24 hours to a 
perfectly healthy man seemed to increase the appetite. Four 
fluid ounces lessened it considerably; and larger quantities 
almost entirely destroyed it. On the last day of alcohol the 
man was three quarters of an hour eating 8 ounces of bread, 
and could hardly do so. Had he been left to his own wishes 
the amount of food taken would have been much diminished. 

''It appears, therefore, that, in this indimd/aoL^ some point 
near two fluid ounces of absolute alcohol is the limit of the useM 
action on appetite ; but it is possible that if the alcohol had 



214 APPENDIX. 

been continaed a smaller quantity would have lessened appetite. 

" In other healthy persons it may be different fiom the 
above; in most cases of disease, when digestion is weakened, 
it seems probable that a much smaller amount of alcohol would 
destroy appetite. 

" 2. The average number of beats of the heart in 24 hours 
(as calculated from 8 observations made in 14 hours) during 
the first or water period was 106,000; in the alcoholic period 
it was 127,000 or about 21,000 more; and in the brandy period 
it was 131,000 or 25,000 more. 

" The highest of the daily means of the pulse observed during 
the first or water period was 77*5; but on this day two obser- 
vations are deficient. The next highest daily mean was 77 
beats. 

" If instead of the mean of the 8 days or 73*57 we compare 
the mean of this one day, viz,, 77 beats per minute, with the 
alcoholic days, so as to be sure not to over estimate the action 
of the alcohol, we find : — 

" On the 9 th day, with 1 fluid ounce of alcohol, the heart 
beat 4,300 times more. 

"On the 10th day, with 2 fluid ounces, 1,872 times more. 

" On the 11th day, with 4 fluid ounces, 12,960 times more. 

" On the 12th day, with 6 fluid ounces, 30,672 times more. 

" On the 13th day, with 8 fluid ounces, 23,904 times more. 

" On the 14th day, with 8 fluid ounces, 25,488 times more. 

'' But as there was ephemeral fever on the 12th day, it is 
right to make a deduction, and to estimate the number of beats 
in that day as midway between the 11th and 13th days, or 
18,432. Adopting this, the mean daily excess of beats during 
the alcoholic days was 14,492, or an increase of rather more 
than 13 per cent. 

" The first day of alcohol gave an excess of 4 per cent., and 
the last of 23 per cent., and the mean of these two gives al- 
most the same percentage of excess as the mean of the 6 days. 

" Admitting that each beat of the heart was as strong during 
the alcoholic period as in the water period (and it was really 



APPENDIX. 215 

more powerfal), the heart on the last t^o days of alcohol was 
doing one-fifth more work. 

'* Adopting the lowest estimate which has been given of the 
■daily work done by the heart, viz,, as eqnal to 1 22 tons lifted 
one foot, the heart daring the alcoholic period did daily work in 
excess equal to lifting 15*8 tons one foot, and in the last two 
days did extra work to the amount of 24 tons lifted as far. 

" The period of rest for the heart was shortened, though 
perhaps not to such an extent as would be inferred from the 
number of beats ; for each contraction was sooner over. 

*' The heart on the fifth and sixth days after alcohol was left 
off, and apparently at the time when the last traces of alcohol 
were eliminated, showed in the sphygmographic tracings signs 
of unusual feebleness ; and, perhaps in consequence of this 
when the brandy quickened the heart again, the tracings show 
a more rapid contraction of the ventricles, but less power than 
in the alcoholic period. The brandy acted, in fact, on a heart 
whose nutrition had not been perfectly restored. 

'* The peripheral circulation was accelerated and the vessels 
were enlarged ; and the effect was so marked as to show that 
this is an important influence for good or for evil when alcohol 
is used. 

" Referring only to this healthy man, it is clear that the 
amount of alcohol the heart will bear without losing its healthy 
sphygmographic tracing is small, and it must be supposed that 
some disease of the heart or vessels would eventually follow the 
overaction produced by large doses of alcohol. 

*' 3. Although large doses of alcohol lessened appetite, they 
did not appear to impede primiary digestion, as far as this 
could be judged of by the sensations of the man; nor did they 
seem to check the normal chemical changes in the body which 
end in the elimination of nitrogenous excreta, of phosphoric 
acid, and of free acidity. In other words, we were unable to 
trace either the good or the evil ascribed to alcohol in this 
direction; it neither depressed these chemical changes nor 
obviously increased them; it neither saved the tissues xior 



216 APPENDIX. 

exbansted them ; and even in the period of ephemeral feyer its- 
effects were negative. 

^ Bat, of course, in these experiments we were not dealing 
with diseased tissues, nor with stmctores altered in composition 
bj long-continned excess of alcohol. The results in such casea 
might be different; and it may be desirable to repeat that 
though the appetite was lessened, the amount of food taken was 
the same each day. 

'* 4. Neither pure alcohol nor brandy, in the quantities given, 
lessened the temperature ; in other words, they did not arrest 
the chemical changes which produce animal heat, or lessen the 
processes which regulate its amount, any more than they influ- 
enced nitrogenous tissue-change. Alcohol in no way influ- 
enced the rise of temperature during the attack of ephemeral 
fever ; it neither lowered nor increased it. This appears to us- 
oonclusive against the proposal to use alcohol as a reducer of 
febrile heat. (See Appendix, No. 1.) 

" On the other hand it is not clear that alcohol increased the 
temperature ; it produced subjective feelings of warmth in the- 
stomach, in the face, round the loins, and over the shoulders ; 
but at the time when these were felt (for about one hour after 
tolerably large doses) the thermometer in the axilla and rectum 
showed no rise. This is best seen by comparing the two o'clock 
observations, which were taken about half an hour after dinner. 
The feelings result from the enlargement of the vessels and 
the greater flow of blood through them ; so, also, the ephe- 
meral fever was decidedly not made worse by it. 

'* 5. An effect on the nervous system was not proved by any 
evidence of increase or decline in the amount of phosphoric 
acid ; but there were marked subjective feelings ; and possibly 
also the increased action of the heart was a nervous condition,, 
as the short contractions of the ventricle were like those ascribed 
to alterations in the nervous currents. The feelings which were 
produced by four fluid ounces daily, and in a still higlMsr degree 
by the larger quantities of alcohol, proved that narcotism was 
produced. There was no exhilaration, but a degree of heavi- 



APPENDIX. 217 

ness, indisposition to exertion, and loss of cheerfulness and 
alacrity ; there was slight headache, and even some torpor and 
sleepiness. All these effects were more marked with brandy .^ 
The commencement of narcotism was therefore prodaced in 
this man by some quantity much less than 4 fluid ounces, and 
probably nearer 2. It was nearly this amount which also 
commenced to destroy the appetite; and it may also be ob- 
served that a considerable rise in the frequency of the pulse 
occurred on the third day of alcohol, when 4 ounces were taken^ 
whereas on the days with one or two ounces the pulse, though 
quickened, was so in a much less degree. 

*' Putting therefore these points together, viz,, that the ob- 
vious effect on the nervous system (i,e. narcotism), the loss of 
appetite, and a great rise in the quickness and frequency of the 
heart's beats occurred at the same time, it seems fair to con* 
elude that there must be a relation between the phenomena 
or, in other words, that all were owing to nervous implica- 
tion. 

" It appears, then, clear that any quantity over two ounces of 
absolute alcohol daily would certainly do harm to this man ; 
but whether this, or even a smaller quantity, might not be 
hurtful if it were continued day after day, the experiments do 
not show. It is quite obvious that alcohol is not necessary 
for him ; that is, that every function was perfectly performed 
without alcohol, and that even one ounce in twenty-four hours 
produced a dedided effect on his heart, which was not necessary 
for his health, and perhaps, if the effect continued, would even- 
tually lead to alterations in circulation, and to degeneration of 
tissues. It is not difficult to say what would be excess for 
him ; but it is not easy to decide what would be moderation ; it 
is only certain that it would be something tmder two flmd ounces 
of' absolute alcohol in twenty -fowr hours* 

" It will be seen that the general result of our experiments is 
to confirm the opinions held by physicians as to what must be 
the indications of alcohol both in health and disease. The 
effects on appetite and on circulation are the practical points to- 



218 APPENDIX. 

fiieize ; and if we are correct in oar inferences, the commenoe- 
ment of narcotism marks the point when both appetite and 
•circalation will begin to be damaged. As to the metamor- 
phosis of nitrogenous tissues or to animal heat, it seems impro- 
bable that alcohol in quantities that can be properly used in 
-diet has any effect; it appears to us unlikely (in the face of 
the chemical results) that it can enable the body to perform 
more work on less food, though by quickening a failing heart it 
may enable work to be done which otherwise could not be so. 
It may then act like the spur in the side of a horse, eliciting 
force, though not supplying it. 

'' The employment of alcohol in health and disease is so great 
A subject that we should have felt tempted to extend these re- 
marks to some points of medical practice, had it been desirable 
to do so in this place. We will only say that while we recog- 
nize in these experiments the great practical use of alcohol in 
rousing a falling appetite, exciting a feeble heart, and accelerat- 
ing a languid capillary circulation, we have been strongly im- 
pressed with the necessity for great moderation and caution. 
In spite of our previous experience in the use of alcohol and 
brandy, we were hardly prepared for the ease with which appe- 
tite may be destroyed, the heart unduly excited, and the capil- 
lary circulation improperly increased. Considering its daily 
And almost universal use, there is no agent which seems to ns 
to require more caution and more skill to obtain the good and 
to avoid the evil which its use entails. 

"We wish to guard ourselves against the supposition that in 
apeaking of alcohol and brandy we refer at all to wine and 
beer, which contain substances in addition to alcohol, which 
may make their action in nutrition somewhat different.'* 

FEOM THE PEOOEEDIXGS OP THE BOYAL SOCIETY, No. 123, 1870. 

" In the Proceedings of the Royal Society (No. 120) is an 
account uf some experiments with pure alcohol and brandy on a 
healthy man. This paper is intended as a continuation, with 



APPENDIX, 219 

the Bubstitution in tbe experiments of red Bordeaux wine 
(claret) for alcohol and brandy. The same man was the sub- 
ject of the experiments, and he was placed on precisely the 
same diet as is recorded in the former paper. 

" The experiments were continued for 30 days, the man 
having abstained from any alcoholic beverage for 16 days pre- 
viously. During the first 10 days, water only was taken at 
dinner, during the next 10 days red Bordeaux wine was substi- 
tuted for the water; 10 fluid ounces (284 cub. centims.) being 
given on the first 5 days, and 20 fluid ounces (568 cub. cen- 
tims.) on the last 5 days. The wine was taken at dinner time, 
at a quarter past 1 o'clock. In the last 10 days water was 
again given. 

'^ The wine was a good claret, as it was thought best to use a 
superior wine ; it was Haut Brion wine of second growth, of 
the vintage of 1863, and was sold in London at the price of 
60s. per dozen. It contained 11 per cent, of alcohol. The 
free acidity was equal to about 3 grains per ounce of tartaric 
acid (C4H6O6) ; the total solids amounted to 21*76 grammes, 
and the fire-proof salts to 2*359 grammes per litre. Of this 
amount of salts 2*027 grammes were soluble, and *832 insolu- 
ble. In the former, phosphoric acid and chlorine were present 
in the amounts *145 and '106 gramme per litre respectively; 
the insoluble salts contained only *0175 gramme of phosphoric 
acid per litre. In the 10 ounces of wine there were therefore 
only 0'7 grain of phosphoric acid, and 0*46 grain of chlorine. 

'* The ash was intensely alkaline, and, when neutralized with 
standard acid, the alkalinity was found to be equal to 1*679 
grammes of tartaric acid (C4H6O6) per litre. 

*' Only two circumstances (except the taking of wine) were 
different in this set of experiments as compared with the 
former. 

" The first experiments were made in February and March, 
1870, when the weather was very cold; the present were made 
in May and June in very hot and dry weather. The only 
influence we could trace to this altered condition of climate was 



220 APPENDIX. • 

fchat the amount of water allowed was insoffioient, and the man 
suffered some discomfort from thirst. We could not perceive 
that any effect was produced on the nitrogenous elimination ; 
certainly there was no diminution. 

*' The other alteration was that the man had gained 4 lbs. in 
weight, and was still gaining a little when the experiments 
were commenced ; he continued to do so slowly until the 24th 
day, when his health began to give way and he lost weight. 

*' The experiments included the number of the pulse (taken 
in the recumbent position) every 2 hours from 8 a.m. to 10 
P.M., tracings of the pulse and respirations, the temperature of 
the axilla every 2 hours &om 6 am. to 10 p.m., the temperature 
of the rectum four times a day (the observations being taken 
with the same thermometers as on the former occasion), the 
amounts of nitrogen, phosphoric acid, chlorine and free acidity 
of the urine, and the weight, and in the two cases the amount 
of nitrogen in the stools. (Here follow in the original paper 
fourteen pages of carefully detailed experiments)." 



GENERAL CONCLUSIONS. 

'* 1. The general results of these experiments are in all re- 
spects identical with the experiments on alcohol and brandy, 
that is to say, there was a marked effect on the heart, coincid- 
ing tolerably well in amount with the effect produced by pure 
alcohol in the former experiments ; there was no unequivocal 
alteration of temperature in the axilla or rectum, no alteration 
in the elimination of nitrogen, for the increase in the last 
period cannot be credited to the direct effect of the wine ; no 
alteration in the phosphoric acid of the urine ; some augmen- 
tation of the free acidity of the urine ; no alteration of the 
alvine discharges. In other words, claret-wine in the above 
quantities cannot so far be distinguished in its effect &om pure 
alcohol. Its most marked effect, the increase of the heart's 
action, must be ascribed to the alcohol, in great measure, though 
the ethers may play some slight part 



V 



APPENDIX. 221 

'' Bat it would be going too fsir to assert that the dietetic 
effects of red Bordeant wine and of dilute alcohol are identical. 
The difference between them must probably be sought in their 
effects on primary digestion and assimilation, delicate and 
subtle influences which experiments like those recorded in the 
paper do not touch. The influence of the sugar, of the salts, 
and of the acidity must also be appreciated by other methods. 
The man himself affirmed that the wine agreed with him better 
than the alcohol or brandy, but the large quantity he took of 
these last fluids vitiates the comparison. 

" These experiments on wine enabled us to define somewhat 
better than the previoas trials what might be considered 
moderation for this man. The 10 ounces of wine, containing 
about 1 fluid ounce of pure alcohol, did not cause the least 
unpleasant feeling of heat or flushing. The 20 ounces (con- 
taining almost 2 fluid ounces of alcohol) were manifestly too 
much. He felt hot and uncomfortable, was flushed, the face 
was somewhat congested, and he was a little drowsy. More- 
over, as already mentioned, alcohol then began to appear in the 
urine. Therefore he ought certainly not to take much more 
than 1 fluid ounce of absolute alcohol in 24 hours. 

•' With regard to the propriety of this healthy man taking 
any alcohol, we have no hesitation in saying he would be 
better without it. His heart naturally acts quickly and 
strongly enough ; alcohol increases its action too much, and 
might lead on to alteration in its condition, or to injury of 
vessels, if any degeneration were to take place in them. This 
man had gone through the Abyssinian campaign, and stated 
that when the force was without rum, owing to deficiency of 
transport beyond Antalo, he had in no way felt the want of 
the stimulant, though some of his comrades did. This seems 
to confirm our opinion, that alcohol for him is not a necessity, 
and indeed is not desirable." 



222 APPENDIX. 



m. 



Abstract of a Lecture o»"Dust and DiSEiSB, delivered at the 
Boyal Institution.** {From The British Medical Journal^ 
January 29th, 1870.; 

"Professor Ttndall, in making some experiments on ra- 
ponrs, wished for a current of air quite free from the particles 
of dust always seen in a beam of sunlight. He tried various 
means for this purpose ; one consisted in passing air through a 
tube filled with sulphuric acid; another, in passing the air 
through a tube filled with solution of potash. In each case, 
particles, capable of refracting light, and rendering themselves 
visible, were still present. In October, 1868 he hit on the plan 
of allowing the air to pass over the flame of a spirit-lamp 
'The floating matter no longer appeared, having been burnt up 
by the flame. It was, therefore, organic matter. If the air 
were sent too rapidly through the flame, a fine bine cloud was 
noticed. This was the smoke of the organic particles.' The 
Professor was not prepared for the discovery that the dust of 
our air was organic. He had always considered it inorganic 
and non-combustible. M. Valentin now furnished him with 
a small gas furnace with a platinum tube, which could be 
heated to redness. Air was passed through this tube when 
cold, and then when hot. When combustion was perfect, no 
particles could be detected. 

^* Further experiments led to still more interesting results. 
A beam of light was made to illumine the dust of the labora- 
tory, and the flame of the spirit-lamp allowed to play on it. 
Wreaths of darkness were at once seen to mingle with the 
flame, just like intensely black smoke. ' When the flame was 
placed below the beam of light, the same dark masses steamed 
upwards.' They were at times blacker than the blackest 
smoke. A red-hot poker placed under the beam produced the 
same dark wreaths. A large hydrogen flame led to the same 
result. Smoke was therefore out of the question. What, 



APPENDIX. 225 

then, was ibe blackness P Simply that of stellar space result- 
ing from tbe absence, from tbe track of the beam, of all matter 
capable of scattering its light 

" The Professor then remarked : * Nobody could, without re- 
pugnance in the first instance, place the mouth at the illumin- 
ated focus of the electric beam and inhale the dirt revealed 
there. Nor is the disgust abolished by the reflection that, 
although we do not see the nastiness, we are churning it in our 
lungB every hour and minute of our lives.' The wonder is, 
that so small a portion of this dirt should appear to be really 
deadly to man. What is this portion ? 

^ The lecturer then alluded to the notion, at one time preva- 
lent, that malarious diseases were due to organic matter in a 
state of decay (fermentation). It was then shown that fer- 
mentation really depended on the growth of the yeast -plant. 
Further, Schwann, in 1887, showed that meat, in contact with 
air which had been heated, did not putrefy ; and he affirmed 
that putrefaction was caused by something derived from the 
air, which could be destroyed by high temperature. The 
germ-theory of epidemic disease soon followed, and found an 
energetic supporter in Sir Henry Holland, the present Presi- 
dent of the Royal Institution. The spread of cholera and that 
of small-pox were adduced as instances in support of the germ- 
theory. 

" Professor Tyndall alluded to the difficulty that must be 
experienced in freeing surgical instruments (a canula, for in- 
stance) from the means of carrying contagion, in the presence 
of an atmosphere such as ours, unless a high temperature were 
employed, and this is not done. Thus, notwithstanding all the 
surgeon's care, inflammation often sets in after the use of such 
an instrument. When an -abscess has been tapped, the pus, 
which was at first sweet, becomes foetid and swarms with 
vibrios. Professor Lister's views were quoted. 

''The Professor then said the dust could not be blown away 
with a pair of bellows ; but, if the muzzle of the bellows were 
staffed with cotton-wool, it was found that the air which 



224 AFPSNDIX. . 

escaped ^as free from particles. Schroeder nsed ootton-wool as 
a filter in his experiments on spontaneous generation ; and sub- 
sequently it was used in those of Pasteur. Since 1868 Dr. 
'Tyndall has used it himself. 

'' The most interesting and important illustration of such a 
filtering process is fomished by the human breath. After in- 
spiring a quantity of common air, a long expiration is made 
through a glass tube across the electric beam. At first the 
luminous track is uninterrupted. The breath impresses on the 
floating matter a transverse motion, but the dust from the 
luDgs makes good the particles displaced. After a time how- 
ever, an obscure disc appears upon the beam, and, at the end of 
expiration, the beam is, as it were, pierced by an intensely 
black hole, in which no particles whatever can be discerned. 
The air, in fact, has lodged its dirt in the lungs. A handful 
of cotton- wool placed over the nose and mouth during inspira- 
tion makes the dark hole in the beam of light appear from the 
beginning of expiration. A silk handkerchief answers nearly 
as well, but the filtration is not nearly so perfect i&s with cotton- 
wool. 

''In conclusion, the use of cotton-wool respirators was 
strongly advocated." 



IV. 

FROM THE PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY No. 97, 1868. 

On the Special Action op the Pancreas on Fat and Starch. 

By Horace Dobell, M.D., &c. 

» 

'' I have been engaged for several years in experimenting 
with the secretion of the pancreas. The enquiry of which I 
now make known the results has reference especially to the 
mode of action of the pancreas upon fats — ^a point which has 
been the subject of investigation by various physiologists ever 



APPENDIX. 225 

since the discovery of the inflaence of the pancreatic fluid on 
the absorption of fat by Claude Bernard, nearly twenty years 
ago. 

" In the chemical parts of my experiments I owe much to the 
efficient aid of my friend Mr. Julius Schweitzer, and to the 
-energy and perseverenoe with which he carried out my sug- 
gestions under many difficulties. 

" The objects of my investigations have been as follows : — 

"1. To discover the exact character and nature of the influ- 
ence exerted by the pancreas upon fats. 

"2. To discover a means of obtaining and preserving the 
active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experi- 
ment in the laboratory, and for administration as a remedial 
agent. 

"3. To discover the eflects of the administration of the active 
principles of the pancreas as a remedial agent in certain wast- 
ing diseases, and to test, by an experimentum crucisy the truth 
of a conclusion on this subject, at which I had previously ar- 
rived by a process of inductive research. 

" I shall not occupy the valuable time of the Society by nar- 
rating the many, more or less unsuccessful, experiments, but 
restrict myself to a concise record of those attended with suc- 
cess. 

*' Experiments were made with the pancreas of several dif- 
ferent animals, but that of the pig was selected for the experi- 
ments of which I am about to give the results, as being nearest 
in the character of its functions to that of the human subject. 

'* In order to ascertain the normal reaction of the pancreatic 
juice, and whether this is altered by the length of time that 
has elapsed since the last meal, the following experiment was 
made with the assistance of Mr. Schweitzer and of Mr. Harris 
of Calne, who kindly placed his extensive pig-killing establish- 
ment at our service for the purpose. 

" On March 22, 1866, forty pigs were killed, and the pan- 
>creas of each examined immediately after death; the killing 
^nd examination were so rapidly conducted, that the pancreas 

Q 



226 APPENDIX. 

was in each case examined while warm &om the body ; and 
the killing and examination of the forty pigs in succession 
occupied less than an hour. 

*' The pigs were killed ten at a time. The first ten had been 
fed two hoars before they were killed, the second ten five 
hoars, the third ten nine hoars, and the fourth ten had not been 
fed for two days. 

'' The pancreas in each groap presented the same characters 
in size, colour, and reaction. Each pancreas was cut through 
so as to lay open the principal duct, but in no case was there 
any fluid in the duct. Litmus-paper was applied to the interior 
of the duct and to the divided glaud-cells, and on being pressed 
sufficiently against the tissues to absorb moisture, the paper 
was in each case reddened where it was moistened. This acid 
reaction was not found in the fat and muscles of the animal. 

" At my request, Dr. Collins examined the reaction of the 
pancreas in a series of cases at the moment when all the di- 
gestive organs were under active excitement. He gave the 
pigs a good and relishing meal, and while they were eating it^ 
, divided the spinal marrow in the neck, so as to destroy sensa* 
tion in the body. The pigs were immediately cut open, the 
pancreas removed, and its reaction examined. On August 3rd 
he wrote me, ' As you requested, I have tried a series of expe- 
riments upon the pancreas, parotid, and sublingual glands. 
The two latter have a decidedly acid reaction, but the pancreas 
I am not quite so certain about ; in one batch of pigs killed in 
Buckinghamshire it was alkaline, but in another lot in Hert- 
fordshire it was acid.' 

^* The reaction of the pancreas is always acid when it reaches 
the laboratory for experiment as quickly as possible after re- 
moval from the animal. This we have proved in many hun- 
dreds of instances. 

** To discover the influence of the pancreas upon fat, the fresh 
pancreas of the pig, freed from all adhering blood and other 
extraneous matters, was cut into small pieces, bruised, and 
mixed with lard; and to this mixture water was gradually 



APPENDIX. 227 

added. In the braised condition tbe pancreas had an acid 
reaction. By stirring this mixture of pancreas, lard, and 
water, the fatty character disappeared, a thick, white, creamy 
fluid being formed, which, on standing, solidified into a firm 
pasty mass. This mass had also an acid reaction. In order to 
&ee it from the dSbris of pancreas, it was pressed through mus- 
lin, and a uniform smooth creamy emulsion remained. This 
emulsion rapidly putrefied, but remained a permanent emulsion 
until putrefaction set in. 

"The following are the microscopical characters presented 
by pure lard before mixture with pancreas, and by this emul- 
sion, which I call * crude emulsion' : — 

"1. ' Lard' (pure). — Aggregations of ordinary acicular crys- 
tals of margarine. No oil-globules. No water. 

'* 2. ' Crude emulsion.' — A tolerably uniform granular mass 
with separate acicular crystals of margarine, oil-globules, and 
water abundantly distributed throughout the mass. In some 
places the crystals are aggregated as in No. 1. The granules 
range from the -gTnro ^ irrh-^ of an inch in diameter. 

" This mixture of fat and water difiers from all other mix- 
tures or chemical combinations of fat and water in the follow- 
ing particulars. 

"When the * crude emulsion' is put into ether, the ether 
separates it into two strata — 

a. An ethereal stratum above, containing the fat. 
h, A watery stratum below. 

" When the upper stratum (a) (ethereal solution of fat) is 
drawn off and the ether evaporated by a cautiously regulated 
heat, a pure crystalline fat remains which I call * pancreatized 
fat.' This pancreatized fat has no tendency to putrefy, and 
will keep for an indefinite period. It presents the following 
characters under the microscope : — 

"3: * Pancreatized fat' (lard) consists of minute separate 
acicular crystals of margarine and fine granular matter rmi- 
formly distributed. The special character is the complete loss of 
aggregation of the crystals. 

Q2 



228 APPENDIX. 

'' This ' pancreatized fat' retains the property of mixing or 
combining with water, and forming a thick, smooth, creamy 
emulsion, that it possessed in the form of 'crade emulsion' 
before solution in ether. The emulsion formed by mixture of 
' pancreatized fat* with water I call * purified pancreatic emul- 
sion.' It has, like the crude emulsion, an acid reaction, and 
will keep for a very long time, and presents the following mi- 
croscopical characters : — 

"4. 'Purified emulsion' (No. 3, spirit and water). — As 
nearly as possible the same as No. 2 ; the separate crystals 
more uniformly distributed, and fewer aggregations of them. 
No globules.* 

" On analysis of the lower watery stratum (&) resulting from 
the separation of the fat of the crude emulsion by ether, it is 
found to contain no glycerine, 

'* On analysis of the pancreatized fat (3) obtained by evapo- 
rating the ether from stratum a, it is found that 100 parts of 
the pancreatized fat are saponified by 54 parts of oxide of lead, 
and yield 146*25 parts of lead-plaster, and 6*75 parfcs of gly- 
cerine. 

" It is also found that every 100 parts of lard used in mak- 
ing the crude emulsion produce 106*5 parts of pancreatized fat, 
the increase of 6*5 parts being solely due to absorption of 
water, as proved by heating the pancreatized fat, when the 
water separates, and the pancreatized fat is reconverted into 
ordinary lard. 

'' In all the foregoing respects the pancreatic emukion of fat 
differs entirely from all other kinds of emulsion of fiB^tty matter, 
whether chemical or mechanical. All other emulsions of fat 
are destroyed by ether, the fat being restored at once to its ori- 
ginal condition. 

*' The influence exerted by the pancreas upon fats, therefore, 
appears to operate by breaking up the aggregation of the cry. 

* In cold weather it is necessary to gently warm the glass slide before 
placing the above specimens upon it, otherwise the solid constituents become 
agglomerated. 



APPENDIX. 229 

stals of the fat. It alters the molecnlar condition of the fat, 
mingling it with water in such a way that even ether cannot 
separate the fat from the water. A permanent emnlsion is 
thus formed ready to mix with a larger quantity of water 
whenever it may be added. 

*' The pancreas, therefore, in acting upon fat, does not decom- 
pose it into fatty acid and glycerine, the absence of the glycerine 
from the watery stratum (&), and the presence of the glycerine 
in the pancreatized fat of the ethereal stratum (a), having been 
demonstrated. 

" Action of the pancreas upon starch, — It is well known that, 
in addition to the influence of the pancreas upon fat, it has the 
power of converting starch into glycose by simple mixture. 
This property remains to a certain extent after the pancreas 
has exhausted its property of acting upon fat. The quantity of 
pancreas which before mixture with fat will convert about eight 
parts of starch into glycose, after saturation with fat will still 
convert about two parts of starch into glycose. 

" Second object. — To discover a means of preserving the 
active principles of the pancreas in a form suitable for experi- 
ment in the laboratory, and for ad^ninistration as a remedial 
agent. 

" The properties of the pancreas can be extracted from the 
tissue of the gland by means of water. This watery fluid 
putrefies very rapidly. It has an acid reaction, a deep yellow 
colour, coagulates largely by boiling, leaving the colour of the 
fluid unaltered. It may be precipitated by lead solution, and 
decomposed again by sulphuretted hydrogen. 

" When this watery fluid is evaporated, it forms a syrupy 
extract, which is highly hygroscopic and very difficult to dry. 
With great care and trouble, however, it may be dried. For 
general purposes, the drying is greatly facilitated by adding a 
dry absorbing-powder, such as powdered malt. For experi- 
mental purposes, it may be used in its pure undried state of 
syrupy extract, but must in that case be used fresh. In the 
dry state, either pure or mixed with malt-dust, it may be kept 



230 APPENDIX. 

good for an indefinite length of time, if protected from moistnre 
in a well-closed bottle. This extract of the pancreas, contain- 
ing the active principles of the pancreas in the highest degree 
of efficiency, whether fluid or powdered, I call * pancreatine.' 
This term is only nsed for convenience' sake, and must in no 
way be understood to signify that the property possessed by it 
is single. All attempts to isolate the several properties of the 
pancreas into separate products have failed, no one of such 
products having been found to possess in perfection the property 
of acting upon fat in the manner described in this paper as 
peculiar to the pancreas. By the term 'pancreatine,' then, I 
desire to represent the entire properties of the pomcreas extracted 
in a convenient form for keeping, for experiment, and for ad- 
ministration as a remedial agent. 

" One part of the pure pancreatine dried, without mixture 
with malt-dust, will digest at least sixteen parts of lard, and 
enable it to form a thick creamy emulsion, with about 100 
parts of water. The emulsion thus formed presents in every 
respect the characters and qualities of the emulsion produced 
by the fresh pancreas already described. In this way therefore 
the active principles of the pancreas may be obtained and pre- 
served in a form suitable for experiment in the laboratory and 
for administration as a remedial agent. 

*' The third object of my investigations has especially occu- 
pied my attention in a long series of experiments at the Royal 
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Full details of these and 
of the results obtained have been published from time to time, 
during the last four years, in the medical journals ; I shall not, 
therefore, occupy the time of the Society with any account of 
them in this paper.* 

* See the Author's work *' On Tuberculosis," its nature, cause and treat- 
ment, 2nd edit., in which some of the papers here referred to are collected. 



APPENDIX. 231 



V. 



On the Importance and Dangers of rest in Pulmonary Con- 
sumption. Bj Horaoe Dobell, M.D. (From the British 
Medical Jau/mal, Nov. 22nd, 1873). 

'^ Had not Mr. Heather Bigg brought forward my name as the 
originator of Mang-splints' (Journal, November 1st, page 530), 
I should not have thought it necessary, after all that I wrote 
on the subject in 1866-7, to join in the discussion on the impor- 
tance of ' rest in pulmonary consumption,' just now excited by 
the interesting paper of my friend Dr. Berkart. 

" My object in now writing is not to enter into the dispute on 
the question of priority, but to issue a caution to those experi- 
menting, either with Dr. Berkart's bandages or with my Hung- 
splints,' lest anyone should think he has my authority for run- 
ning into dangers which I have been most careful to avoid. 

"It was in November, 1872, that, at my request, Mr. Bigg 
made the first ' lung-splint,' and I asked him to call it at once 
by this name, as conveying an unmistakable explanation of its 
objects. He arranged it with his usual skill ; it answered ad- 
mirably, and he has made many others since, adapting each to 
the special requirements of the case. Before this, I had been 
accustomed to procure rest for portions of lung by other devices, 
principally by keeping the arm of the affected side flexed upon 
the walls of the chest, so as to restrain expansion by its weight 
and by the absence of muscular action ; and it was the difficulty 
of sufficiently localising the pressure by these means to suit 
special cases that led me to suggest the ' lung-splint ;' but, 
whether it be partial rest of the whole of one lung, or more 
complete rest of a portion of one or both lungs that is desired, 
the gpreatest caution is necessary ; because whatever local means 
secure rest to one part of the lungs, throw extra work upon the 
other parts, and may, therefore, easily do more harm than 
good. 



232 APPENDIX. 

" For this reason, I have always nsed the greatest circum-^ 
spection in selecting cases for this kind of treatment, and I trast 
that, if anyone is led to follow my example in one part of this 
treatment, he will most scrapnlonsly do so in the other. With 
this precaution, nothing can be more satisfactory or more com. 
mon sense, in the treatment of lung-disease, than the use of 
luDg-splints, bandages, and the like ; whereas without it no- 
thing can be more foolish. 

" The * importance of rest in pulmonary consumption' was a 
necessary corollary upon my well-known hypothesis as to the 
nature and cause of tuberculosis, viz., that tuberculisation i& 
peroxidation of albuminoid tissue ; and in my -^ork on that sub- 
ject, published in 1866, and in my * Lectures on the True First 
Stage of Consumption,' published in 1867, I brought this pro- 
minently forward. In enumerating the means of carrying out 
the ' second principle of treatment in advanced tuberculosis, 
viz., to save the albuminoid tissues from disintegration to the 
greatest possible extent,' I said, * Let respiratory action be re- 
duced to the lowest point consistent with maintaining what re- 
mains of appetite and digestive power,' {Tuberculosis, 2nd edit., 
page 45) ; and again (page 47), ' until this point is arrived at 
— until the balance is turned in favour of the albuminoid tissues 
— everything which favours the reception of oxygeni nto the 
blood, everything which increases the wear and tear of the 
body, everything which calls for the generation of animal heat,, 
directly favours tuberculisation, and precipitates the patient 
into the very catastrophe we wish to avert.* 

" When discussing the views of Dr. Pollock and of Dr. Edward 
Smith {True First Stage, pp. 70, 71), I said, *It will be seen how 
entirely I disagree with Dr. Pollock in his interpretation of 
the phenomena which he has so carefully observed. While 
fiilly admitting and appreciatincf the conservative action of the 
organism in disease, I fail to set' an example of it in the wast- 
ing of consumption, which appears to me to be the unavoidable 
effect of an arrest of the supply of an essential material for 
combustion and for histogenesis — an arrest in the supply of 



APPENDIX. 233^ 

that for which it is impossible to stop the demand while life 
continnes. On the other hand I oan see an example of conserva- 
tive action in the attempt instinctively made by the patient to stop 
ihds demand hy lessening respiration, abstaining from exertion, and 
seeking artificial heat — phenomena which Dr. Edward Smith 
interprets so differently. While fnlly admitting with Dr. Smith 
that, in early phthisis, respiration is diminished, I believe that 
he is totally wrong in his interpretation of its meaning. It is 
a law of animal nature to save a tender part, and I see, in the 
attempt at lessened respiration in early phthisis, an example of 
the operation of this law. The blood in the pulmonary circu- 
lation is deficient in fche materials which the inhaled air seeks, 
the delicate tissue of the lungs is exposed to injury by the air, 
through deficiency in its usual protection of fatty blood, and 
nature comes to the rescue by attempting to diminish the quan- 
tity of air that is brought into the unprotected lungs, just as 
she shuts off the access of light from an inflamed retina by clos- 
ing the iris or the eyelid,' In referring to climatic treatment, 
I said {True First Stage, page 50), ' the second object of clima- 
tic treatment — economy of fat and carbon in the organism, and 
protection of the lungs from undue oxidation, i.e., provisional 
protection against tuberculisation — ^is of the greatest impor- 
tance .... We must look for an atmosphere sufficiently warm 
to save some of the demand for carbon to supply animal heat, 
and we must look for a place where this warm diluted air can 
be breathed with as little exercise as possible.' I recapitulate 
these statements, because it has been under the dictation of the 
principles to which they refer that I have been accustomed to 
prescribe rest in pulmonabt consumption, whenever tubercu- 
lisation has commenced or is already imminent. First, rest of 
the whole body ; secondly, rest of the whole of both lungs ; 
thirdly, rest of one lung ; fourthly, localised rest of diseased 
portions of lung. 

" Those who enter into my views as to the importance of avoid- 
ing peroxidation of lung-tissue in consumption, will at once see 
how dangerous may be the effect of throwing exaggerated ao- 



234 APPENDIX. 

tion upon one portion of lung by the attempt to control the 
tuition of another portion. If the disease hy which the one 
portion was damaged had been purely local, there wonld be no 
danger, worth considering, in taxing the sonnd parts to save the 
nnsoand ; bnt, when we consider consumption as ' an abnormal 
physiologfical state' of the constitution, exposing all parts of the 
lungs to destructive changes, we at once see how much caution 
is required iu determining that it is safe to throw exaggerated 
action on parts which may be only needing this excitement to 
subject them to the same destructive changes as those taking 
place in the portion of lung we wish to save by localized rest. 

'' The rules for the cautious application of localised rest in 
lung-disease which I recommend, as dictated by a consideration 
of the nature of tuberculosis, and justified by the results of my 
own practice, are as follows. 

"1. If one lung, or a portion of one lung, or a portion of 
each lung, has become diseased, under circumstances which 
make it certain that there is no constitutional cause of lung- 
disease, then it is safe to secure localised rest for the diseased 
part, and to throw the extra work upon ihe sound parts ; but 
oven then it is necessary to be cautious that the extent of 
lung 80 rested is not too large in proportion to the extent of 
sound lung upon which the extra work is thrown. If there is 
any question about this, rest of the whole body must be secured 
in addition to the localised rest of lung, so as to save the sound 
lung from as much work as possible. 

''2. If there is a constitutional cause of lung-disease, bnt 
only a small area of lung at present suffering, and that in the 
upper lobes, while there is a capacious chest with large areas 
of lung in the lower portions quite sound and insu£Gbiently used, 
then it is safe to secure localised rest for both upper lobes, and 
to make the lower portions do a fairer proportion of the work ; 
but even under these circumstances, the respiration should be 
kept at as low a point as practicable. A case illustrative of 
•this rule has just occurred to me. A fine young man, with a 
Tery capacious thorax, who has practised all sorts of gynanastic 



exercmm with bb amui while rtmtrictmg tbe lower parte of the 
cheei by drese^ Ium ihtie acquired a habit of breatbiDg- almoit 
entirely with the upper portione of long. He hae a tnbercti' 
lotM family history ; and, after foolish overtraioiog, by which 
he redoced his flesh coosiderably, he overtaxed his lungs in a 
race, and he has since become the sntrject of partial consolida- 
tion of the apices and recurrent hiemoptysis* Finding that he 
has large tracts of scarcely utilised lung at the lower parts o( 
the chest, I hare not hesitated to get Mr« Bigg to apply me- 
chanical restraint, by means of lung-splints^ to both upper 
lobes ; but I hare, at the same time, secured rest for the whole 
lungs by sending the patient on a long sea-royage to a warm 
climate, under careful watching against orer-exercise. 

'' 3« If a portion of lung has become disintegrated, under the 
influence of constitutional causes, and remains obstinately un- 
healed after all constitutional symptoms hare been arrested, 
and, for home time past, no other portions of lung hare shown 
a tendency to yield, then I think it is quite safe to secure loca- 
lised rest for the disint^^ted portion, so as to gire it a fairer 
chance of heah'ng ; while an amount of air and exercise may 
be allowed to the patient, for the purpose of imprroring his re- 
parative powers, which could not be permitted while the 
damaged lung was exposed to the same amount of action as the 
sound parts« But eren here the utmost caution is required not 
to carry the exercise beyond a rery limited amount. 

''4. If the constitutional tendency to lung-disease— ' the ab- 
normal physiological state'^s strong, and signs of impending 
mischief in the lungs are scattered, no localised rest should be 
attempted, but erery means should be brought to bear upon 
the important otrject of maintaining respiration at its lowest 
point, consistent with life and nutrition, until the constitutional 
tendency has become passire and the local symptoms hare been 
remored« 

*^In conclusion, to prerent misapprehension on so rital a 
point, let me' remind my readers that, in urging 'the impor- 
tance of rest in consumption,' I am referring to cases in which 



236 APPENDIX. 

the longs are already damaged, or in which the constitutional 
disease • has declared itself in sufficient force to render tuber- 
onlisation imminent. ' If the symptoms are only what is 
commonly called premonitory, that is, if they are those of 
oonmienciDg tuberculosis, and no reason or sign is discoverable 
which justifies the suspicion that tuberculisation has com- 
menced ; if a sufficiency of fat remains without calling upon the 
albuminoid tissues, the principles of treatment are quite oppo- 
site to those above detailed.' {Tuberctdosisy 2nd edit., page 47). 
' It must be admitted that the proper regulation of this matter 
is one of the greatest trials of the astuteness of the physician, 
and it is almost impossible, unless he can make the patient and 
his friends comprehend its meaning and importance. But 
not less does it test the skill and judgment of the physician to 
decide upon the moment when restrictions upon fresh air and 
exercise ought to be removed. The argument so often used 
when a patient appears to be ' doing well' that ' it is the best to 
let well alone,' may be fatal if applied to this case. Tlie very 
fact that he is ' doing well' may be the sign that he must not 
be ' let alone ;' that he is now in a state in which it is safe ta 
make a call upon his mechanical force, to accelerate histo- 
genesis, to supply fresh oxygen — in a word, to set about the 
restoration of active nutrition. And then, again, how scru- 
pulously these new tasks should be set ; how carefully watched 
in their effects, lest even now they cannot be continued with 
safety ! On the first sign of their being ;^badly borne, they 
should be moderated or promptly stopped." (True First StagOy. 
page 46). 



VI. 

On the DiGESTiBiLiTT OF Gelatine YIELDING TissuEs. {From 
''The London Medical Record;' Jan. 20th, 1875). 

" J. Etzinger {Zeitschrift fur Biologic, 1874, Band x., abstract 
in CentraXblatt fiir die Medicin. Wissenschaften, no. 45, 1874) 



APPENDIX., 287 

tested on the one band the actbn of artificial gastric juice on 
the ligamentnm nuch®, tendon, cartilage and bone ; and on the 
other hand fed a dog, whose excretion of nitrogen was dimin- 
ished to a constant low value by being allowed to hunger for 
several days with the proper substances. 

'^ The increase in the quantity of nitrogen after the supply of 
the above substances is taken as the standard for their ntilisa- 
tion in the body. 

" 1. Bones, — ^Bone powder, prepared by rasping the compact 
substance of ox-bones, dissolved tolerably richly in hydrochloric 
acid (0'3 per cent,)' After ten days' digestion of 10 grammes 
(150 grains) of the powder, with in all 1,200 cubic centimetres 
(rather more than 40 ounces) of dilute acid, only 1'88 grammes 
remained undissolved. The residue was richer in organic sub- 
fttauce than the original substance; organic substance, however, 
being plentiful in the solution. The dog experimented on 
showed, after taking 150 grammes of bone, an increase in the 
excretion of urea of about 8 grammes per diem. An absorption 
of lime from the bones could not be proved ; on the contrary, 
the quantity of this mineral in the urine showed a diminution. 
The author supi)oses that the cause of this phenomenon lay in 
the diminished dcicomposition of the tissues of the body through 
the supply of gelatine. The phosphoric acid showed a small 
increase. Corresponding to this, the fieces evacuated during 
feeding with bones contained <J08'5 grammes of ash, i.e,, some- 
what more than the supplied bones. 

"2. OaHilage, — Costal cartilage of a calf dissolved in not 
inconsiderable quantity in a 0'3 [ler ceni solution of hydro- 
chloric acid {a.g.^t 24'3 per cent.) ; but much more on the addi- 
tion of i)epsin (74'U per cent.). After feeding with cartilage, 
the ffloces only contained traces thereof ; the excretion of urea 
showed an increase of about 11 grammes after feeding with 
72-2 of dry cartilage at 100*» Cent. 

" 3. Tendom were affected little by the action of a 0*3 per 
cent, solution of hydrochloric acid. After eight days' digestion 
the amount dissolved in the pepsin mixture was 12'0fi per cent. ; 



238 APPENDIX. 

on the contrary, after three days they were broken up and dis- 
solved, and 94i per cent, had gone into solution. The solution 
did not form a jelly after neutralisation and evaporation. The 
ligamentum nuchsB of an ox conducted itself similarly ; on di- 
gestion for ten days it disappeared completely, only an unim- 
portant residue remaining. The dog, after hungering for several 
days, received in one day 367*1 grammes of tendon, on the 
next 360*3 grammes, corresponding to 245*8 grammes of the 
dried substance. In the fsBces only a very minute quantity of 
tendon could be found. The excretion of nitrogen in the urine 
rose to 21*2 grammes (the tendon contained 46*4 grammes). 

" All gelatine-yielding tissues are therefore capable of diges- 
tion and utilisation ; most extensively tendon, then cartilage^ 
and lastly bone, of which less organic substance is absorbed, 
probably on account of its rapid passage through the intestinal 
canal. The author confirms the results of Frerichs and Kiihne 
that gelatine, by digestion with pepsin and hydrochloric acid, 
loses its property of gelatinising." 



VII. 

Nutritive Enbmata. {From The Lamet, Feb. 1874). 

"In the experiments upon digestion, lately performed by 
Czemy and Latschenberger (Virchow's Archvv, Band lix., Heft 
ii.), comparative trials were made between the materials intro- 
duced into the large intestine, and the same acted upon outside 
of the body with the secretion obtained from the mucous mem- 
brane. Portions of hiard-boiled white of ^gg and shreds of 
fibrine remained unchanged, preserving the sharpness of their 
angles and borders, when exposed to the action of the mucus at 
a temperature of 100° for two or three hours. No emulsion 
could be obtained by shaking up olive oil and the mucus ; and 
no conversion of starch into sugar could be thus produced^ even 



APPENDIX. 239^ 

after the lapse of several hours. Similar cabes of hard-boiled 
white of egg were retained in the rectum in small perforated 
capsules for no less a period than ten weeks, and yet on with- 
drawal exhibited no indication of any digestive action. Experi- 
ments made with soluble albumen in like manner showed that 
the large intestine of man exerts no digestive action upon it. 

'* Other experiments, made with a view of determining the 
absorptive capacity of the portion of intestine under observa- 
tion, and which, as before stated, was estimated at about 240 
square centimetres, showed that in the course of seven hours 
the quantity of water that could be taken up was from 617 to 
772 grains. They showed also that although the intestinal 
juices exerted no digestive action on albumen, and no emulsify- 
ing action on fat, yet that the walls of the intestine were capa- 
ble of absorbing both albumen when introduced in the soluble 
form, and oil if it had been previously emulsified. The quantity 
of soluble albumen absorbed was always proportionate to the 
time. Any irritation applied to the intestine checked the pro- 
cess of absorption, and, if violent, stopped it altogether. Baw 
white of egg was found to be an unfavourable form for absorp- 
tion. The best mode of preserving life by means of injection is 
often an important subject of consideration, especially in cases 
of cancer of the intestine ; and these experiments accord with 
the observations and recommendations of Leube, that whilst 
comparatively little benefit can be obtained from the injection 
of the raw material of our ordinary diet, considerable quantities 
can be absorbed, and much improvement can be produced in the 
Strength and health of the patient, if the substances have been 
previously subjected to operations by which they are partially 
digested-— as, for instance, if fat be emulsified, if albumen be 
redaced to the soluble state, and if starch have been converted 
into glycose." 



i 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Air, fresh, conditioiu for f Tipplj 
o^ to afMirtinents . . .13 

Albnmiiioids^ increaie of, in the 
diet, in Bright's disease . . 96 

Alcohol table, (notice) . . 8 

tablej showing the ana- 
lysis of spirituous liquors .142 

Ajistie and Parkes on, 

(notice) 7 

•^— fiuts . . , .41 

experiments on the ef- 



fects o^ on the human bodj, 
by E, A. Parkes and Count 
WoUowicz . . . 212-21 

its oxidation in the 

body as food .... 7 

administration of . 123 

— its place in diet • . 123 

in disease, effects . 209 

acute . . . 209 
chronic . . • 211 



— ^ " Leading article from 

Lancet" 209 

Alcoholic drinks, effects of those 
imperfectly fermented in in- 
creasing tendency to gout and 
rheumatism .... 140 

Alimentary articles, see Food, 

Ansemia, a frequent vestige of 
serere diseases, and names of 
diseases under which it proves 
fatal .... 186-191 

■ connection with rickets 

190-1 

Anstie on alcohol, (notice) ^ • 7 

Apoplexy, relation of changes in 
olood vessels to . . • 194 

- vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases • . . 180 

Arteries, atheromatous disease 
of 194 

Atrophy, vestiges of, the causes 
of other disMses . • • 188 



Bacon, its great value in nutri- 
tion as a store of compact fi^t 78-4 

Baking, a process of cooking not 
adapted tor weak digestions 86-6 



PAGE 

Bantings diet, (approximate a- 

nal^sis) .... 108-9 
Bantmgism, good and harm 
from, as a system of diet 109-10 

Bathing 34 

Baths, ^'cold friction" daily use 

of 84 

warm . . . ,159 

Beef, hints relative to its whole- 
someness and digestibility . 70 

Beef tea 160 

Beef tea. Brand's solid . .151 
Bernard, experiments showing 
morbid predispositions to be 
I>ecnliar physiological condi- 
tions 203 

Birds, see Poultry, 

Boiling, hints on the best modes 

^of ...... 83 

Bone, experiment on. illustra- 
tive of its digestibility . . 287 
Bowels, regulation of . . . 85 
Brand's Meat jelly and solid 

beef tea 151 

" Brakenridffe (D. J.) on the in- 
fluence of a digestive habit," 
notice of . . . .116 

Bread 154 

Breakfast, the second best meal 

of the day .... 40 
Broiling, principles of . ,85 
Bronchitis, vestiges o^ the causes 
of other diseases . . . 182 

death from, in rickets 188 

Kettle, Nash's . . 159 

Broths, best modes of prepara- 
tion 87 

Carbolic add . . . 144-9 

mode of using for 

disinfection .... 149 
Carbon, heat of combustion of, 

with hydrogen . . .52 
Cartilflffe, experiment illustrat- 
ing the amount of its digesti- 

mtj 237 

Cerealintea .... 158 
Change and rest . ... 36 

B 



242 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Change, see Posture, 

Cheese and cream cheese, rela- 
tive digestibility of, &,c, . 78 

Chestnuts, digestibility of, if^ 
baked to meal . . . * 81 

Childbirth, death from rickets in 189 

Children, atrophy and marasmus 
of, characteristic signs . . 112 

; classes of, subject to 

ditto, 115 

fat and starch in the 

nutrition of . . . 112-^2 

Chill, serere, case of di£ferent 
sequeke from, in different per- 
sons 204-5 

Chloride of lime . . 144-9 

modes of using 

for disinfection . . . 148 

Cider, analysis of . . . 142 

Climate of United Kingdom, 
rules for promoting and main- 
taining vigorous health in 12-49 

Clothing and protection from 
cold 25 

Cocoa and Egg, as a breakfast . 155 

Cold, protection from, by cloth- 
ing 25 

Colds, i>er centage of causes of 26 

Collins (RO deaUis in childbirth 
from fatty degeneration of 
uterus ..... 196 

Condy's Fluid . . . 144-9 
mods of using for 



PAGE 

"Cough (winter) Lectures on," 
notice 25 



disinfection 
Consumption, pulmonary, tahUa 

of diets for 

carbo-hydrate 

^— — ^— ^ albuminoid . 

fluid diet 

on the import- 



ance and dangers of rest in 

rules for the 



149 



100 
101 
102 

231 



cautious application of local- 
ised rest in . . . ^ 234-6 

Contagion, means for preventing 144 

see also Infection, 

Contagious Diseases, media by 
which communicated . . 143 

means of 

preventing the spread of • 145 

Cooking, modes of, in common 
use .•.•«• 83 

tdhU of loss of weight 

per cent, in foods by .88 

Cosens' (P. W.) description of 
Spanish wines . . 130-33 

Cotton-wool, use of as a filter 
and respirator. . . 223-4 



fables of its in- 



terdependence with other dis- 
eases 184- 

Czemy and Latschenberger, ex- 
periments on nutritive ene- 
mata 238 



Darby's fluid meat . . . 151 
DebiUty, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . . . 183^ 
Degeneration, fatty, as a vestige 
of disease, its probable causes 
and effects . . . 192-200 
Denman (J. L.) properties of 

Greek wines .... 139 
Dentition retarded, from ^ckets 188- 
Diabetes, diet in . . . 

rationale of a proper 

diet in 9J 

ToWe of diet for . 103-4 

Diet. Tables of, (notice) . . 8 

Tables of, for maintenance 

of health in adults in the cli- 
mate of the United Kingdom 62-8 
table, arranged for a chari- 
table institution, or children 
taken from destitute homes . 68 

normal . . . .4-5 

essentials of, . 61 

combination of ali- 



mentary principles forminfl^ a . 114 

modification o^ to 

suit the conditions of disease 91-2 



for the very poor 

place of alcohol in , 

errors in ... . 

see Food, 

of disease . . . . 

principles of 

- rules to be ob- 



served in 
removal of ele- 
ments from, which increase 
function of (Hseaeed organs . 
--• avoidance of un- 



68 
6 
4 

4-5 

8» 

95-8 



93 



necessary reduction of variety 

in .,.;.. 94 

in consumption (tables) 100-2 

in diabetes . 4, 97, 103 

in dyspepsia . . . 4-5- 

Dij^estibility of gelatine-yielding 

tissues 235- 

Digestion, healthy, conditions 

necessary to . • . .42-' 



IMDEX. 



243 



PAGE 

Dingley, case of infantile waft- 
ing, treated with pancreatic 
etnalsion 118 

Dinner, evils attending, when 
taken at mid-day during bun- 
ness honrs . . . 43-45, 49 

Disease, germ theory of . . 223 

* 'Lectures on the germs 

and vestiges of" selections 165 
from ..... 
vestiges of, mode in 



which they become causes of 
fatality in other diseases 174-5 

interdependence of 1, 177 

Tables of, showing ves- 



tiges of disease as the causes 

of other diseases . . 177-88 

diet of . . . . 4-5 

- — — ditto, principles of . 89 

effects of alcohol in . 299 

1 — contagious, media by 

which communicated . . 143 

means of preventing 

the spread of . . . . 145 

Diseases of the chest, a depart- 
ment of medicine not a speci- 
ality 8 

Disinfectants, use of various . 144 

— r mode and propor- 
tion in which each should be 
used 148 

Disinfection, directions and pre- 
caations .... 143-49 

Dobell, "Lectures on winter 
cough," extracts from , 25-9 

Letter on "Proper hours 

for meals" , . . .41 

' on the importance of dis- 
tinguishing between solid and 
liquid fats (from Chemical 

:Vews) 106 

on some principles of diet 



in disease ^Lecture delivered 
at the Hospital for Diseases of 
the Chest) . . . .89 

** Lectures on the germs 

and vestiges of disease, ex- 
tracts from .... 165 
Paper on periodical ex' 



aminations at public charities 
(notice) . . . . .169 
on the special action of 



pancreas on fat and starch 224-30 
Dogmas, pseudo-medical, and 

rational medicine . . .10 
Down (Lan^don) Case of infan- 
tile wasttntf treated by pan- 
creatic emulsion • . . 118 



PACK 

Drainage (House), suggestions 
and remarks on by G. E. 
Pritchett . . . 14-24 

Druitt (R.) Description of ma- 
rasmus in children . . . 112 

Dry earth system of Closets , 23 

"Dust and disease," lecture on 
by Prof. Tyndall . . .222 

Dyspepsia, avoidance of unne- 
cessary reduction of variety of 
diet in . . . . .94 

acid, diet in , .4 



"Education, Physical,'* extracts 

from Maclaren's work on . 32 
^ggf white and yolk of, &c, . 154 
Enemata, nutritive . . ^ . 157 

nutritive, experiments 

of Czemy and Latscnenberger 
on ...... 238 

Etzinger (J.) Experiments on 
the digestibility of gelatine 
yielding tissues . . 236 

Examination, periodical, impor- 
tance of, for the prevention of 
disease .... 16^3 

Exercise 81 

— — extracts from "Mac- 
laren on Physical Education,*' 

on 32 

see Postwre and Meals 



Farinaceous articles . . . 150 

Farrants' measurements of par- 
ticles of fat in cod oil and 
beef-£Eit emulsions . . . 120 

Fat essential to healthy nutri- 
tion 105 

— — in the body, its character 
varied by £ood .... 107 
— importance of proper food 
to supply the adipose tissue 
with 108 

on the special action of the 

pancreas on . . . . 224 

— see PwnereaUc Emulsion. 

getting, or thin , . 5, 108 

«— solid and liquid, importance 
of distinguishing between . 105 

— ~ and starch in the nutrition 
of children . . . 112-22 

Fats importance of those with 
high melting points, as ele- 
ments of food and medicine . 121 

Fattening, artificial, of animals 111 

s2 



244 



INDEX. 



PAOB 

Fatty depreneration, as a Tdstiffe 

of disease . . . 192-200 
.^__« supposed 

causes of death in cases of 199-200 
Fermented liqaors, amount 

which may oe taken daily 

with adranta^e ... 8 
FererS) contagious, media by 

whidi communicated . .143 
continued, vestiges of 



the causes of other diseases 

see Typhus, Typhoid, 

see RhewmaUc Yq^qt. 



179 



75 

77 

29 
6,61 
. 6 
. 62 

63 



55 



66 
6 



Fish, relative digestibility and 
nutritive value of dinerent 
kinds 

«— - shell, difficulties in their 
digestion, Ac* .... 

Fogs and damp air as causes of 
colds 

Food, heat and motion 

connection with force 

heat equivalents of . 

^-^ — mode in which heat evolved 
from is disposed of • 

table of units of heat, and 

mechanical equivalents of dif- 
ferent articles of . . . 

— Frankland's table of com- 
parative weight and cost of 
various artides o^ required 
to develope energy sufficient 
to raise 10 stone 10,000 feet . 

its precedence among means 

of preserving health • 

wholesomeness and digesti- 
bility of various articles of 70-83 

table of the composition of 

some of the principal articles 
of • . . . . .65 

table of loss of weight in, by 

cooking 88 

table of proportionate quan- 
tities of water in various 

see Diet, 

non-nitrogenous, higher 

dietetic value of in relation to 
force production, but inferiori- 
ty to nitrogenous in physical 
development .... 

Foot-pound, its mechanical force 

Foot-tons, mechanical equiva- 
lent of heat-units in . ^ . 

Fruits, list of as articles of diet . 

Frying^ objectionable process of 
cooking for weak digestion . 

Game, relative digestu)ility and 
nutritive character . 



69 



58 
62 

52 

81 

86 



74 



PAQB 



197 

18 

236 

228 

25 



Gangrene, senile, in tissues al- 
ready degenerate . • 

Gas, means of ventilation, dur- 
ing use of . 

Gelatine yielding tissues, en the 
digestibility or . . . 

Germ theory of disease (notice) 

Goloshes, use of . 

Gout, antecedents of, and rela- 
tions with constitutional dis- 
orders .... 169-70 

•—— vestiges o^ the causes of 
other diseases . . . 178-79 

tendency to, increased by 

alcoholic drinks with incom- 
plete fermentation . 

Gulliver, atheromatous disease 
of arteries .... 

Gypsum, the question of sprin- 
kling grapes with . 



140 

194 



133 



9 



Habits, regulation of . 

Ham, more nutritious than pork, 
bmt difficult of digestion £^om 
''curing" . . . .73 

Hare, its digestibility the same 
as that of game . . .75 

Health more required by modem 
men at their occupations than 
strength 32 

rules for promoting and 

maintadningin the climate of 
the United^ngdom . 12, 49 

Heart and Pericardium, vestiges 
of diseases of, causes of ower 
diseases 181 

Heat, food and motion . 5, 51 

British unit o^ and me- 
chanical equivalent . . , 52 

heat-eG[uivalents of food . 62 

evolution o4 food required 

for . . . • . 63 

evolved £n>m food, mode in 

which disposed of . . .53 

Heating and ventilation . . 12 

Holland (Sir H.) on Symtoma- 
tic complaints (from *' Medi- 
cal Notes") . . . .169 

House-Drainage, suggestions on 
from an architect (&. E. Frit- 
chett, F.S.A.) . . 14-24 

Hybernation, supply of heat- 
giving elements in diseases 
resembling . • • . 92 

Indigestion common among 
those who live an in-door Hfis 41 



IMDIX. 



246 



fM9 

Infoeiion, m«Anf of pr«r<miiaff . 144 
■ dirnctiotii for th« iick- 
room ftod tkHondnnU to pr0- 

vMii 144'40 

— precfttttlonf to b« ttMd 

bj modlcfil m«n . . .147 
— — modoi of provonting 
ftftur iUnowM • . • . 146 
Noo lilno IHil/nfecHonf 



Inhfilfitroii, ilttidi for, t«fflporA- 

turoiof « . . . .159 
IntordopondoDOd of difotMtf 1, 177 



J«ll J, port win« . . • , 15d 
Jonnw (Hir W.) "Loottire oii 

ftickdtn/' eitraeif from 167-6 
JohtmUm (Jfim<i« L.) tioiioof of 

wimHf thoir formimtfitiofi, diM- 

tinoiliro olmraotorii ftrofiffib. 

d(o. « • . • • 125-80 



Kirlutn, on flbrinooi obftraction 
of oorttbriil ftrtorini • . ,104 



Tiftointion, ofiu«Di of iti iftipdH- 

oHiy oror <rrory otbor kind of 

infanf-fAAdinff . . « 131-32 
litkmif, roUitiire nutriiivo obiirftc- 

torr^f « . • . ,72 
tdnryngiutntiM Ntridnltiif oonnoo- 

ii(m with riokMM • • ,166 
UUifibv (H') ^ti of loif of 

w»if(ht in ioodi bj cooking « 66 
Til«bi^if ojiirAot of mofit • • 151 
lAifhUt in tb4) «iok-room • • 150 
I^iiitiom. MID FermtnM, Malt, 

HpiHtmui. 
l/nntf-d\miiMOj mU» fw the oan- 

tioui fipplioiition of looftlifod 

r«»tin . * . « 3B44) 
Lnnt(-Mplinti for prooaring roit 

fr;rp<niioniioffifdot6dlttng • £81 
Mftolfir<m "on FhyiioAl oduoft- 

tlon" (notiow of) • . . 

— ditto itxtracti from . 83 

Mfilt HqttorHf iahls of M(dfii$§ of 142 
llftniMmuif. ohAfAOtirriitio vignf 

of in ohildrim « • • .113 
MiMitiofitlrm of food, n«o«fiity 

f(;r ifuffioiimt • * « .71 

Hdftli 89 

— — - objoetion to folitodo in 

tftking . « • • . 68 
proptr honrf for , 9t 40-1 



VAOl 



UnU, medmii roffuUtionf of 
bniuMfi nitiibUfbmMiti rolt- 
tive tO| inoon«i«timt with 
htaltby dig(4«tion « • 41-5 
rogttliitioni forimprorinff 



th0tim«i of, oonniMrted witti 
thcobUtffition«of bmrfn^fN . 
light, importftnod of dar- 



ing bu»in(f«« honri 

' MO IM/IVMT, 

MoMloi, vftriotj in atUokf , from 

the iiim« vottroo • 
M«At| rnloi in loii of power of 



40 
46 



digesting 
Durb 



201 
06-0 



Durby'i floid, the comiti- 
tnenti of Mitn mmtt mudo eoln- 
ble in water, nnd not ooagu- 
l«ble on heating * • .151 
■— — ditto, methodtf of ueing 158 
— liiobig'i extrnot of . .151 



Jellyi lirand'e . . . 151 
Medioal Afen, Urn dntiew of 165-7 
Medicine, departmente of, which 
are not ipeoiiilitiei . . 2-8 

' riitionfll medicine and 
peendo-medioiil dogmiM . • 10 
Milk, cbemicfil oompoiition of 

eeveriil kindi of . • • 70 
— — per oAnittge of NttltM In • 60 

— reUtlire clmrftcter, of cOwu, 
hnrnftn, and nuimu milk . . 60 

— ittpeririHty of oown to th»t 

of other ftnimiilff « • .70 

— nee in diarrhceii • . 06 
— " and «ttet • . • • 156 

with imirit .... 157 

Moielle Wine, vdluftble medi> 

cinal qnnlitiei of . • .185 
— — — principal growth* 

of . .... .186 

•ee Tfin#i (German) 
Motion, heat and food • 5, 51 
Mntton, remarke relative to it« 

wholeeomenef • and digeetibi- 

llty . . . . . .70 

Nnreing fobedvle, neceeeity ibr 150 
Nutrition, healthy, neceNVity of 

preferring by diet in di«eaee 00-1 
Nutrition of children, fkt and 

itorch in . . . 112-22 

Nntritive, epecial . • .155 

' mixture . . .157 

— — enemata . , .157 
— ^— ^ experimentw of 

Cjsemy and Latechenberger on 286 
Nute, digeeUbiUty of, if beaten to 
a pulp ' .... 61 



246 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Olein, its relationB to solid and 
liquid fatty bodies . . . 106 

Ormerai on fattj degeneration 
of the heart .... 195 

Oxygen, mean consnmption of 
by adults . . . 62-3 

Paget (J.) remarks on fatty de- 
generation, &c. ^ . . 194, 196 

Pancreas, its special action on 
fat and starch . . . 115 

Pancreatic juices, their influence 
on the digestion of starch . 113 

Pancreatic emulsion, on the spe- 
cial action of the, on fat and 
starch, by H. Dobell 95, 224-30 

fineness of 

particles of fat in, compared 
with those of milk, beef-fot, &c. 120 

— -— permanent, 

character of ... . 120 

use in nutri- 
tive enemata .... 157 

its value in 



atrophy and marasmus of 
childhood, &c. . . 113-21 

in atrophy 



of children, histories of several 
cases 117 

mode of pre- 
paring .... 227.30 

Pancreatine .. . . . 230 

Paralysis, vestiges of, the causes 
of other diseases . . .ISO 

Parkes' (£. A.) experiments on 
the effects of Alcohol on the 
human body . . . 212-21 

Pavy (F. W.J extract from his 
Treatise on Food, on the rela- 
tive v^ues in force production 
of nitrogenous and non-nitro- 
genous loods . . . 56-60 

extracts from ditto, 

on modes of cookiiKg in com- 
mon use .... 83-8 

Periodical examinations, import- 
ance of, for the prevention of 
disease .... 166-73 

"Physical education" extracts 
from Maclaren's work on . 32 

Physiological states (abnormal) 201-7 

Physiological conditions not re- 
cognised as disease, and yet 
not health • . . . 206 

possibility of cure 

in ditto . . . . . 207 

Pneumonia, rickets often the 
true cause of death in . . 189 



PAGE 

Pneumonia, fatality in from other 
chronic disease . . .197 

Pork, relative nutritive value, 
and daujB^er of poisonous com- 
pounds m roastinff, Ac. . . 73 

Port wine, strength per cent. 
Ac 128-9 

jelly .... 166 

Posture 33 



see Exercise. 



Poultices 15S 

Poulticing by steam, for apply- 
ing moist or dry heat to the 
body 15S 

Poultry, game, &c., their relative 
digestibility and nutritive cha* 
racter 74 

Pritchett (G. E.) Suggestions 
and remarks on house drain- 
age 14-24 

Babbit^ difficulties attending its 
cooking and digestion . . 75 

Bain-water, means of preserving 
in underground tanks . . I7 

Becipes, £c., spedalj for the 
sick-room . . . 150-61 

Begimen 1) 

Begulation of habits ... 

Bespiration, amount of air viti- 
ated by, per hour , . .13 

Bespiratior, the only protection 
fr^m damp, fogs, &o . . .29 

Best and change . . .36 

see Sleep, 

Best for diseased organs, to be 
obtained by removing elements 
from diet which increase their 
functions 93 

• importance and dangers of, 

in pulmonary consumption . 231 

localised, rules for the cau- 
tious application of, in lung 
disease .... 234-6 

Bestorative food . . . .154 

Bheumatic fever, case of, and 
probable sequeiee from want of 
precautions . . . 171-3 

-^-^•^^— vestiges of, 

causes of other diseases . . 177 

Bheumatism, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases . 178-0 

Bickets, causes of death in 188-9 

— — connection with anaemia 

190-1 
— diseases in which they 
are primarily or secondarily 
the cause of death . . 188-91 



IMDKZ. 



247 



PAOE 



Boasting, Lints on the best 
modes of 81 

Bokitansky. cases of fatty degen- 
eration ox liver and kidneys « I98 



Salivary juice8| their influence 
on the digestion of starch . 118 

Salmon, its nutritive value and 
reasons why sometimes indi- 
gestible 70 

Sdlting, pickling, and smoking, 
indigestibility from . . 87 

Schroeder, cotton-wpol as a filter 224 

Schwann^ putrefaction of meat . 223 

Sherries, wine known under the 
generic name of, historical no- 
tice of their use in England, 
&c 130-2 

— extensive fraudulent 

imitation of ... . 129 

sec also WineB (Spanish) 

Sickness, see Disease, 

Bick-room, special recipes, direc- 
tions, and appliances for 150-61 

Sleep 30 

importance of maintaining 

due proportion of . . .30 

Smith, Edward, extracts on 
cheese, milk, &c., from his 
work *• On Foods" . . 78-80 

■ table of the 

proportionate quantities of 
water present in various soUd 
and liquid foods . . .69 

Smoking, influence of . . 36 

■ — ^— on the health 

of individuals and communi- 
ties 87-9 

Sonsino (Prospero) "On the phy- 
siological dyspepsia from star- 
chy food in infancy." and in- 
fluence of the salivary and 
pancreatic juices on the diges- 
tion of starch, notice of . 112-14 
Soup, invalid . • • . 165 
Soups and broths, best processes 

01 preparation of . . .87 
Specialities, narrow, in medicine 2 
Spirits, tabU of analyses of . 142 

■ ardent, their peculiarities 141 
Spirituous liquors, acid and sa- 

gar in 140 

■ see Alcohol. 

Starch, on the special action of 
the pancreas on . . . 224 

■ and fat in the nutrition 

of children . . • 112-22 



PAGE 

Starchy food, physiological dys- 
pepsia for, in infants . • 114 
Steam, see PoulUciiM by. 
Steatosis of liver ana kidney . 198 
Stewinj;, a favourable process of 

cooking for weak digestion . 86 
Suet ana milk • • . • 150 
Supper, unwholesomeneif of a 
late substantial . .40 



Table of interdependence of win- 
ter coujg^h with other diseases 184 

Tables of the composition of ar- 
ticles of food . . . .65 

— of normal diet for adults 
in the climate of the United 
Kingdom. . . 62-8 

— — of alcohol in spirituous 
liquors 142 

of Mr. Banting's diet . 109 

of diets, for consumption. 



(carbo hydrate, albuminoid, 
and fluid) . . . 100-2 

of diet for diabetes . 108-4 

— — of the vestiges and inter- 
dependence of diseases . 177-83 
Teai afternoon • . . .411 

cerealin .... 168 

Teething, retarded, caused by 

ricketo 168 

Temperature, sudden changes 

of, as a cause of colds . .26 
TendoniL experiments illustra- 
tive of their digestibility . 237 
Thin, getting fat or thin . 5, 108 
Tobacco, influence of . . .36 
summary of the influ- 
ences of, on the health of in- 
dividuals and communities 87-9 
Tongues, objections to cured 

meats not applicable to . .74 
Tyndall " Lecture on dust and 

disease" 222 

Typhoid, vestiges of, the causes 

of other diseases . • . 179 
Typhus fever, vestiges of, the 
causes of other diseases . . 179 



Uterus, fatty defeneration of, 
deaths in childbirth from . 196 



Veal, relative nutritive character 
of, and unwhoLesomeness to 
delicate stomachs • . .72 



248 



INDEX. 



PAOB 

Vegetables, list ol as artioles of 

£et 81 

^ causes of indigesti- 

bility, and means of correcting 82 

Venison, its digestibility the 
same as that of game . . 75 

Ventilation and heating . . 12 

-^— ^— facts on whidi ar- 
rangements for, are to be 

based 13 

conditions of, for sup- 
ply of fresh air . • . 13 

Verkmzen (M. A.) Notices of 
German wines .... 134 



Walshe, &tality of pneumonia 
from pre-existent organic dis- 
ease 197 

Water, table of proportionate 
quantities of, in various foods 69 

— — use of at meals to assist 



digestion . s • . . 
preference of hot to tepid 



for friction bath 
— see Baths. 

drinking, spoiling of by 



72 
34 



21 



leakage of drain-water 
Water-closets, best mode of 

trapping, and ventilation of, 

&c. . . . . • 18-20 
Water-proof over-clothing, ne- 

oessityfor .... 28 
Wet feetj as a cause of colds 28-9 
Whey, directions for making . 154 



PAOB 

Wilks, remarks on sanguineous 
apoplexy, delirium tremens, 
angma pectoris, &c., as con- 
nected with fatty aegenera- 
tion 194-7 

Wines, table of analyses of . 14^ 
' properties of various, 
summary of sources of inform- 
ation on . . . . 123-5 
in general, notices of 



amount^ of fermentation and 
distinctive characters, strength 

5er cent., &c., by James L. 
ohnston. . -. . 125-30 
— German, notices of by M. 
A. Verkruzen .... 134 
German, valuable quali- 



ties of, principal growths, &o. 

134-7 
— Greek, properties of, by 
J. L. Denman .... 139 
Hungarian, notices of the 



different lands o^ by Max 

Greger .... 137-9 
■ Spanish, description of, 

WF.W. Cozens . , 130-4 
"winter Cough" Lectures on, 

extracts from . . . 25-9 
— ^^— — per centage of 

causes of fresh colds in . .26 
table shewing 

its interdependence with other 

diseases 184 

Wollowicz (Count) experiments 

on the effects of alconol on the 

human body . . . 212-21 
Woollen material, necessity for, 

next the skin in winter . 25j 27 



Printed by H. K. Lewis, 136 Gower-st, London, W.C. 



WOBXS BY DB. DOBELL. 



nioitrated bj iho Heliotype Procesf , 

AFFECTIONS OF THE HEART AND IN ITS 

NEIGHBOURHOOD, 

GASES, APHOBISMS, AND COMMENTARIES. 



H. K. Lewis, Gower Street. 
Joft TxMiAei, New and Enlarged Edition (Third), with Coloured Flatei, 

ON WINTER COUGH, CATARRH, BRONCHITIS, 

EMPHYSEMA, ASTHMA. 

Tbif Edition has boon oarefnlly reruied, annotations added, eipecially 
under the head of Treatment, a new Introduction on the Perivascular Sys- 
tem, and an Appendix containing Notes on Climate for Invalid TraToilers. 



J. and A. Chubchill, New Burlington Street. 
New Edition (the Sixth) Enlarged and Bevised, &vo, cloth, 

ON DIET AND REGIMEN IN SICKNESS & HEALTH, 

AND 

ON THE INTEEDBPBNDBNOE AND PEBVBNTION OP DISEASES 
AND THE DIMINUTION OP THEIE PATALITY. 



H. K. Lewis, Gower Street. 



PRACTITIONERS' AND STUDENTS' GUIDE TO 

PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS. 

DEMONSTRATIONS OF DISEASES IN THE CHEST, 
AND THEIR PHYSICAL DIAGNOSIS ; 

COLOURID PLATES. 

A Treatise on the Acoustics of Auscultation and Percussion — ^Directions 
for Educating the Ear by Experiments on Inanimate Bodies — Instructions 
for Practice at the Bedside— and Coloured Plates of thirtj-fire Patholoffical 
Conditions. Each Plate accompanied by a Statement of the Physical Signs 
to be obserred during Life, and by a Corollary upon its leading points. 



J. and A. Chuachux, New Burlington Street. 



Works by Br, Dobell {continued). 

CONSUMPTION, ON THE TRUE FIRST STAGE OF : 

ITS NATURE, DIAGNOSIS, AND TREATMENT BY DIET, CLIMATE, MEDICINE, 
PANCREATIC EMULSION, COD-LIVER OIL, ETC., ETC. 



J. and A. Churchill, New Burlington Street. 
Second Edition. 

ON TUBERCULOSIS: 

ITS NATURE, CAUSES, AND TREATMENT. 

{Embracing an account of the Author's original experiments with Pan- 
creatic Emulsion at the Royal Hospital for Diseases of the Chest.) 



J. and A. Chitrchill, New Burlington Street. 

REPORT ON THE EXPERIENCE OF MEDICAL MEN 

WHO HAVE USED 

" PANCREATIC EMULSION OF FAT." 

Issued in 1867 in reply to the following Editorial note, which appeared in 
the Lancet, Nov. 17, 1866. 

''It would be interesting to know to what extent the experience of those 
medical men who have used the 'pancreatic emulsion' of fat accords with 
that which Dr. Dobell has now recoided in our columns in about two hun- 
dred cases of consumption The remedy has been placed fairly before the 

profession, the author reserving to himself no pecuniary interest or advan- 
tage whatever.*'— Lancet. 



J. and A. Churchill, New Burlington Street. 

« 

DR. DOBELL'S REPORTS 

ON THE 

PROGRESS OF PRACTICAL & SCIENTIFIC MEDI- 
CINE IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE WORLD. 

CONTRIBUTED BY NUMEROUS AND DISTINGUISHED COADJUTORS. 

Vol. I., 1869, pp. 645. Demy 8vo, cloth.— Vol. II., 1870, pp. 606. 

"This is truly a valuable work, and Dr. Dobell will receive for it the 
thanks of the Physicians of all countries." — Cincinnati Medical R&porter' 
*' * Dobell's Reports' will take rank as the first in the English language." — 
8t. Louis Medical and Surgical Reporter. Much more fresh, full, and at- 
tractive than can be furnished by the writers of any one nation. — American 
Journal of Medical Sciences. The whole medical world is laid under contri- 
bution." — Madras Monthly Journal of Medical Science. " Highly valuable 
.and abundant in interest." — Australia/n Medical Journal. "Original and 
independent reports from all parts of the world. The idea is an excellent 
one." — The Lcmcet. "It should be in the hands of every busy practitioner 
of medicine." — Neiv York Medical Gazette. 



London : Longmah, Green & Co., Paternoster Bow. 



CATALOGUE OF BOOKS 
H. K. LEWIS, 136 GOWER STREET, W.C. 



AUSTIN FLINT, Jr., M,D, 

t'tyt^wtftr of i*hy*\oUtifY *n4 t*hy»ifi\f>nich\ Am^Uftny in the UnlUfYtm If^plUl Medlcftl CotUrge, 
Sew Y//rk ', AtUcnainti I'hytticlAn ut th« linWevutt H/>»pJUl ; Cf/nftuftinig; Fhyftid«n hr 

<ii>f tmUiUfftT piHtf, l^eltevtMT H<Mpiul; F«:J|//w «f th« New Vftfk 

A«ii4«my 14 M«4kln« ; VttXUtw tit tnc M«4ifr«l HtfcUtty i4 the 

Orttnty (A New y^/rk, &«, 

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF MAN' ; Designed to represent the 

existing fttate of Pbyftiological Hcience, a* applied to the functions <>f the 
Human body, 5 voU,, larj^e 8vo, cloth, VoL I, — ^The Blood ; Circulation ; 
Ke»ptration, i%%. VoL II,— Alimentation ; Di^eftti^^n; Ahw/rption; 
Lymph and Chyle, i8». Vol, III,— -Secretion ; Kxcretion; Ductleiw 
Ciland^', Nutrition; Animal Heat; Movement*; Voice and Hpeech, il^*. 
Vol, IV,— The Nervous Byfttem, i%%. Vol, V, —Special 8enM;»; Genera' 
tion, iHft, 

MANNING and ELLIOTT, 
The Muscles of the Human Body grouped according to 

their action* with their vancular and nerv(ni» wupply, By C, J, Mamnino 
and F, H, Elliott, M,K,C,8,E, Oblonf( 8vo, i» 6d, 



M, REDMAN, 
HUMAn' An'ATOlCY; forming a complete series ot Ques* 

tion» and An»wer» (or the u«e of Medical Students, 2 voU,, 1 2mo, cloth, 
10* 6d, 

RALPH RICHARDSON, M,A,, M,D, 

VtXUtw tA tb« CiAUgt fff i*hy»iciMn, Kdinhurgh. 

THE SIMPLICITY OP LIFE ; an introductory chapter to 

pathol/^y, Fcap, 4to, 5», 



SYDNEY RINGER, M,D, 

Pf&Usimfr 0f Tb«f Apeutit* \n Vn\MtnAiy CfAU%i$, 

A HAE^DBOOK OP THERAPEUTICS. Fourth edition, re- 

viiied and enlar/^ed, Small ^o, 1211 6d, 

n. 

On the Temperature of the Body as a means of diagnosis 

and PrognofM in Pbthfusii, Second edit,, vmall 8vo, cloth, 2% 6d« 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY H. K. LEWIS. 



CHARLES HENRY RALFE, M.A., M.B. 

Late Scholar of Gonville and Caius College: Member of the Royal College of Physicians; 

Physician to the Seamen's Hospital. 

OUTLIITES OF PHYSIOLOGICAL CHEMISTBY; includ- 
ing the Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis of the Tissues, Fluids, and 
Excretory Products. Fcap. 8vo, 6s. 



HARVEY and DAVIDSON. 
Syllabus of Materia Medica for the Use of Teachers and 

Students. Based on a selection or definition of subjects in teaching and 
examining ; and also on an estimate of the relative values of articles and 
preparations in the British Pharmacopoeia with doses affixed. By Alex- 
ander Harver, M.D., Professor of Materia Medica in the University 
of Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, etc., and Alexander Dyce Davidson, 
M.D., Assistant Professor ; Ophthalmic Surgeon to the Aberbeen Royal 
Infirmary, &c. Second edit., i6mo, is 6d. 



E. A. KIRBY, M.D., M.R.C.S, Eng. 

Late Physician to the City Dispensary. 

A Formulary of Selected Bemedies with Therapeutic Anno- 
tations. Adapted to the requirements of General Practice, Hospitals, Dis- 
pensaries, Parish Infirmaries, Lunatic Asylums, and other Public Institu- 
tions. With Index of Diseases and Remedies, Diet Tables, etc. Second 

edit., crown 8vo, 3s 6d. 

II. 

On the Administration of Phosphorus as a remedy for 

loss of Nerve Power, Neuralgia, Hysteria, Melancholia, and Atonic Con- 
ditions of the Cerebro-spinal System. With formulae for combination with 
Iron, Quinine, Nux Vomica, etc. is. 



ERNEST FRANCIS, F.C.S. 

Demonstrator of Practical Chemistry, Charing Cross Hospital. 

Practical Examples in Quantitative Analysis forming a 

Concise Guide to the Ans^ysis of Water, &c. Illustrated, fcap. 8vo, 2S 6d. 



Dr. A. VOGEL. 
A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children. Translated 

and Edited by H. Raphael, M.D. From the fourth German edition, 
illustrated by six lithographic plates, part coloured, large 8vo, 600 pages, 
188. 



LIST OP NEW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY H. K. LEWIS. . O 

J. ASHBURTON THOMPSON. 

Surgeon at King's Cross to the Great Northern Railway Company, Surgeon Accoucheur to 

the Royal Maternity Chanty, etc. 

Free Phosphorus in Medicine with special reference to its 

Use in Neuralgia. A contribution to Materia Medica and Therapeutics. 
An account ot the History, Pharmaceutical Preparation, Dose, Internal 
Administration, and Therapeutic uses of Phosphorus; with a complete 
Bibliography of this subject, referring to nearly 200 works upon it. Demy 
8vo, pp. 275, 7s 6d. ' 



W. SPENCER WATSON. 



I. 

Surgeon to the Great Northern and Central London Ophthalmic Hospitals. 

On Abscess and Tumours of the Orbit. 8vo, 6s. 

Diseases of the Nose and its Accessory Cavities. (/» the 

Press), 

G. JONES, F.C.S. 

Analytical and Agricultural Chemist. 

The Phosphates of Commerce, their composition and che- 
mistry. Fcap. 8vo, cloth, 2s 6d. 



J. B. BUDGETT, L.R.C.P. Edin., &c. 

The Hygiene of Schools or Education Physically and Men- 
tally Considered. Crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 



Dr. S. SCOTT ALISON. 

Morbid Condition of the Throat, in their relation to Pul- 
monary Consumption. Post 8vo, 3s 6d. 



E. RANDOLPH PEASLEE, M.D., LL.D. 

Professor of Gynsecology in the Medical Department of Dartmouth College; Attending Surgeon 
of the New York State Woman's Hospital ; President of the New York Academy of 

Medicine, &c., &c. 

Ovarian Tumours: their Pathology, Diagnosis and Treat- 
ment, especially by Ovariotomy. Illustrations, roy. Svo, i6s. 



J. TOYNBEE, F.R.S. 
The Diseases of the Ear; their Diagnosis and Treatment. 

With Supplement by James Hinton, M.R.C.S., Aural Surgeon to Guy's 
Hospital. Demy Svo, 8s 6d. 



IJ8T OF NEW BOOKS FUBLISHSD BT H. K. LEWIS. 



J. THOMPSON DICKSON, M.A., M.B. (Cantab,) 

Lecturer on Mental Diseases at Gay's Hospital ; late Superintendent of St. Lake's HospitaL 

The Science and Practice of Medicine in Relation to Mind, 

the Pathology of the Nerve Centres, and the Jurisprudence of Insanity, 
being a course of lectures delivered at Guy's Hospital. Illustrations in 
chromo-lithography and physiological portraits, Svo, cloth, 14s. 



WILLIAM RICHARDSON, M.A., M.D., M.R.C.P. Lond. 
Bemarks on Diabetes, especially in Beference to Treatment. 

Demy Svo, 4s 6d. 



Dp. T. INMAN. 

Late Physician to the Royal Infirmary, Liverpool, &c 

I. 

On the Bestoration of Health ; being essays on the princi- 
ples upon which the treatment of many diseases is to be conducted. New 
edition, enlarged, small Svo, cloth, 7s 6d. 

II. 

On the Preservation of Health; or, essays explanatory of 

the principles to be adopted by those who desire to avoid disease. Third 
edit., demy Svo, 6s 6d. 



M. G. ECHEVERRIA, M.D. 

Professor of Mental and Nervous Diseases at the Medical College of New York, &c 

On Epilepsy: Anatomico-pathological and Clinical Notes, 

With original coloured plates and engravings. Large Svo, 22s. 



Dp. FELIX von NIEMEYER. 
Text Book of Practical Medicine, with partictilar 

reference to Physiology and Pathological Anatomy. Translated from the 
Eighth German Edition, by special permission of the Author, by George 
H. Humphrey, M.D., and Charles E. Hackley, M.D. 2 vols., large 
Svo, 36s. 



THEODOR BILLROTH, 

Professor of Surgery, Vienna. 

General Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics, in fifty Lec- 
tures, A text-book for Students and Physicians. Translated from the 
sixth German edition, with special permission of the author, by C. £. 
Hackley, M.A., M.D. Large Svo, cloth, i8s. 



LIST OF NEW BOOKS PUBLISHED BY H. K, LEWIS. O- 

CAZEAUX'S OBSTETRICS. 
A Theoretical and Practical Treatise on Midwifery including 

the Diseases of Pregnancy and Parturition. Revised and Annotated by 
S. Tarnier. Translated from the Seventh French edition by Bullock. 
Royal 8vo, over iioo pages, 172 illustrations, 308. 



J. F. MEIGS, M.D., and W. PEPPER, M.D. 
A Practical Treatise on the Diseases of Children. Fifth 

edition, revised and enlarged, roy, 8vo, cloth, cut edges, 288. 



F. HOFFMANN, Ph.D. 

Pharmaceutist in New York. 



Manual of Chemical Analysis as Applied to the Examination 

of Medicinal Chemicals. A guide for the determination of their Identity 
and Quality, and for the detection of Impurities and Adulterations. For 
the use of Pharmaceutists, Physicians, Druggists, and Manufacturing 
Chemists, and of Pharmaceutical and Medical Students. Roy. 8vo, cl. i28. 



F. T. ROBERTS^ M.D., B.Sc. 

Assistant Physician and Teacher of Clinical Medicine in the University College Hospital ; 
Assistant Physician, Brompton Consumption Hospital, &c. 

A Handbook of the Theory and Practice of Medicine,. 

Small 8vo, i6s. 

R. D. POWELL, M.D., F.R.C.P. Lond. 

Senior Assistant Physician to the Hospital for Consumption and Diseases of the Chest, 

Brompton ; Lecturer on Materia Medica at the Charing Cro^s School of 

Medicine and Assistant Physician to the Hospital. 

On the Principal Varieties of Pulmonary Consumption, with 

Practical Comments on Diagnosis, Prognosis and Treatment. Small 8vo, 
cloth, 3s 6d. 

J. M. FOTHERGILL, M.D. M.R.C.P. 

Junior Physician to the West London Hospital. 

The Heart and its Diseases: with their treatment. 8yo^ 

I2s6d. 



J. WICKHAM LEGG, M.D. 

Casualty Physician to St. Bartholomew's Hospital. 

A Treatise on HsBmophilia sometimes called the Hereditary 

Hsemorrhagic Diathesis. Fcap. 4to, 78 6d. 

II. 

A Guide to the Examination of the Urine ; intended chiefly^ 

for Clin.'cal Clerks and Sttidentg. Third edit., fcap., Svo, cloth, 28 6d. 



6 LIST or NEW BOOKS FUBLISHKD BY H. K. LBWI8. 

JOHN W. HAYWARD, M.D., M.R.G.S., L.S.A. 
A G-iiide to Trefiriw and the Vale of Conway Spa. Second 

edition, re-written; with much new matter, and a new analysis of the 
waters. Fcap. 8vo, is 6d. 



BEARD and ROCKWELL. 
A Practical Treatise on the Medical and Surgical Uses of 

Electricity. Including localized and general Faradization ; localized and 
central Galvanization ; Electrolysis and Galvano-cautery. Second edition, 
revised, enlarged, and mostly re-written. Nearly 200 illustrations, roy. 8vo, 
cloth, 25s. 



E. NESBIT CHAPMAN, M.A., M.D., 

Late Professor of Obstetrics, Diseases of Women and Children, and Clinical Midwifery in 

the Long Island College Hospital. 

Hysterology; a Treatise Descriptiye and Clinical, on the 

Diseases and Displacements of the Uterus. Illustrations, roy. 8vo, cloth, 
i8s. 



Dp. GRAILY HEWITT. 

Professor of Midwifery and Diseases of Women in University College. 

Outlines of Pictorial Diagnosis of Diseases of Women. 4tOy 

6s. 



C. F. OLDHAM, M.R.C.P.E., M.R.C.S.L. 

Surgeon H.M. Indian Forces, Fellow of the Roval Medical and Chimrgical Society, late 

in Medical charge of Dalhousie Sanitarium. 

WHAT IS MALABIAP and why is it most intense in Hot 

Climates ? An Explanation of the Nature and Cause of the so-called 
Marsh Poison, with the Principles to be observed for the Preservation of 
Health in Tropical Climates and Malarious Districts. Demy 8vo, 78 6d. 



E. T. \VILSON, M.B. Oxon., F.R.C.P. Lond. 

Assoc. Memb. Metrop. Assoc. Med. Ofifis. Health, Physician to the Cheltenham General 

Hospital and Dispensary. 

DISINFECTANTS AND HOW TO USE THEM. In packets 

of one doz., price is. 



Dr. J. C. THORO\VGOOD. 



The Climatic Treatment of Consumption and Chronic Iiung 

Diseases. Third edit., post 8vo, cloth, 3s 5d. 



f 



1 




