
—=; "^ „ .-5 



pilf IE fOK^H ApD POOi 



''The Eclipse," 



Hotel and Home Cooking. 



SUITABLE FOR RICH AND POOR. 






E'lE^ICE, r7S CE3^TS. 






ilfCfU.^ 



COLUMBUS, OHIO: 

GLENN, PRINTER AND BINDER. 

1875. 



■J? 



x^'V 



Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1S75, by 

MRS. H. J. HAWHE, ^ / C c, 
Ib the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, J). C. 



^erqkfk^. 



The Authoress of this book has been fifteen years or more in 
collecting her receipts. They are from some of the best cooks in 
the country, gathered from the North, South, East and West. 

Many of the finest cooks prefer to use the vinegar from spiced, 
sweet pickles, or the spiced vinegar, instead of wine or brandy. 
Then you have both the flavor of the fruit and spices, and is very 
much richer. The syrup from canned fruit is also very nice. 
Therefore, these receipts are recommended for your trial. 

Measures for Housekeepers. — Wheat flour, 1 pound is 1 
quart. Indian meal, 1 pound 2 ounces is 1 quart. Butter (when 
soft), 1 pound is 1 quart. Loaf sugar (broken), 1 pound is 1 
quart. White sugar (powdered), 1 pound 1 ounce is 1 quart. 
Best brown sugar, 1 pound 1 ounce is 1 quart. Eggs, 10 eggs are 

1 pound. Flour, 8 quarts are 1 peck ; flour, 4 pecks are 1 bushel. 

Liquids. — Sixteen large tablespoonfuls are half a pint ; 8 large 
tablespoon fuls are 1 gill ; 4 large tablespoonfuls are half a gill ; 

2 gills are half a pint ; 2 pints are 1 quart ; 4 quarts are 1 gallon ; 
a common sized tumbler holds half a pint ; a common sized wine 
glass holds half a gill ; 25 drops are equal to 1 teaspoonful. 



EB. ARMSTRONG & CO., Dealers in all kinds of Stoves, Ranges, 
. Furnaces and House Furnishing Goods, No. 21 East Town St. 

4 TKe. lEcltpse 







l\edeij)t^. 



SOUPS. 



Mock Turtle Soup. — The stock: 1 calf's head, 2 gallons 
water, 2 oz. butter, 2 onious, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, 2 pieces celery, 
bunch herbs, 5 lbs. of beef, 8 cloves, \ oz. eschalots, \ oz. black 
pepper, \ oz. allspice. Take a calf's head with the skiu on, re- 
move the brains, and lay them aside; wash the head in cold 
water, in which it may lie for an hour; then put it into a stew- 
pan with 2 gallons of cold water, and let it boil gently for an 
hour, removing the scum carefully; then take it out of the 
broth, and let it remain to be half cold, when the meat must be 
cut from the bones into square pieces of about an inch ; the skin, 
which is the prime part, should have the fat left adhering to it ; 
the tongue must be cut up in the same way ; put into a stok-pot 
2 oz. of butter and 2 good-sized onions, sliced ; shake them over 
the fire till brown ; then place over them 5 lbs. of coarse, lean 
beef, and pour over half the broth in which the head has been 
boiled; let it boil till all the scum be removed, then add 2 car- 
rots, 2 turnips, 2 heads of celery, 8 cloves, \ oz. of eschalots, 
and a small bunch of savory, thyme, raajorara and basil, with 8 
sprigs of fresh parsley and \ oz. each of allspice and whole black 
pepper; add the bones and trimmings of the head and the re- 
mainder of the broth, and let it all stew gently for 4 hours; then 
strain off. This is the stock. Turtle and mock turtle soups when 
served are much improved by addition of a dessert spoonful to a 
plate of Halford Leicestershire table sauce. Thickening: 6 oz. 
butter, 6 oz. flour, \ oz. lemon peel, \ oz. eschalots, \ oz. sage 
and \ oz. savory. Put 6 oz. of butter into a clean stew-pan, and 
gradually blend with it 6 oz. of flour ; .«mooth it by adding ^ pint 
of the stock ; in another pan put \ pint of stock with \ oz each 
of grated lemou peel, eschalots, sage and savory ; boil for half 
an hour, strain and rub the herbs through a tamis ; then blend 
the liquor with the thickening and strain all into the stock ; let 



H 



& N. GTJNDERSHEIMER, Merchant Tailors, dealers in Gents' 
Fine Furnishing Goods, No. 101 S. High St., Columbus, O. 



GEO. R. ELLIOTT & CO., Photographers, Southwest corner High 
and Town streets, Columbus, Ohio. 

CooJl (^oolz.. 5 

it simmer over the fire for an hour, with the squares of meat 
added, and then make ready the seasoning, as follows: The sea- 
soning to be added must be 2 teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, 2 of 
mushroom catsup and 1 of anchovy and the very thin peel of a 
lemon ; simmer five minutes, take out the lemon peel, then add 
the (luenelles, as for turtle soup, and, if required, brain-balls and 
egg balls, and the soup is ready for the tureen. It ought to be 
reduced by the boiling to 4 or 5 quarts. 

Ox-Tail Soup. — Time, 4J hours ; 2 ox-tails, J lb. of lean 
ham, 1^ heads celery, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, a bunch of 
savory herbs, 5 cloves, a wine glass of catsup, with three quarts 
of water; cut up 2 ox-tails, separating them at the joints; put 
them into a stew-pan with about H oz. butter, a head of celery, 
2 onions, 2 turnips and 2 carrots cut into slices, and ^ lb. of lean 
ham, cut very thin ; the pepper corns and savory herbs and 
about ^ pint of cold water ; stir it over a quick fire for a short 
time to extract the flavor of the herbs, or until the pan is cov- 
ered with a glaze ; then pour in three quarts of water, skim it 
well, and simmer slowdy for 4 hours, or until the tails are tender; 
take them out, strain the soup, stir in a little flour to thicken it, 
and add half a head of celery (previously boiled and cut into 
small pieces) ; put the pieces of tail into the stew-pan with the 
strained soup ; boil it up for a few minutes and serve. This soup 
can be served clear by omitting the flour and adding to it carrots 
and turnips, cut into fimcy shapes, with a head of celery in 
slices ; these may be boiled in a little of the soup, and put into 
the tureen before sending it to the table. 

Cream Soup. — Take the bones of a turkey, chicken or buckle 
of veal and make 1 quart of broth ; take the skin from 18 toma- 
toes, 3 sliced ouions and 2 oz. of butter ; put them in a sauce- 
pan, add 1 cup of water and salt and pepper; let this stew until 
the potatoes are soft, stirring constantly; add more water and let 
it boil again ; then add 1 quart of milk and let boil ; add nut- 
meg, chopped parsley and some sugar. 

Julienne Soup. — Time, H hours; f lb. of cari'ots, turnips, 
celery and onions, 1 large cabbage lettuce, 2 oz. of butter, 2 
lumps of sugar, 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock ; weigh 
f lb. of the above-named vegetables, and cut them into strips of 
about Ij inches long, taking care they are all of the same size; 
wash them in cold water, and drain them very dry ; then put 
them into a stew-pan with the butter and sugar pounded ; set 
it over a quick fire for a few minutes, tossing them over fre- 
quently until they are covered with a thin glaze, but on no 
account allow the vegetables to burn ; then add 5 pints of clear 

RUDISILL & DOMONEY, Fashionable Hatters and Furriers, 99 
South High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



c 



C. WHITE, M. D., Eye and Ear Surgeon. Office : No. 31 East 
, Town Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



6 TUe :EcUjDse 

soup, or medium stock, cut the lettuce into pieces and put it into 
the soup, and let it all stew gently for an hour or more. 

Oyster Soup. — One quart of water to 1 pint of milk, 1 heap, 
ing tablespoon of butter and salt and pepper to suit the taste ; 
this must come to a boil, must boil well ; then drop in -h can of 
oysters ; five minutes will be sufficient to cook them ; some peo- 
ple like them cooked in the broth of the oyster alone, with a 
little seasoning. 

Vegetable Soup. — Have your soup bone put on early, boil 
well and salt and pepper well ; about twenty minutes before 
ready to serve add 3 or 4 sliced potatoes, 1 cup of chopped cab- 
bage and 1 carrot ; when the soup bone is first put on add 1 
tablespoonful of rice and dried beans, so that they may be well 
done ; then before serving make a thin thickening of milk and 
flour and a well-beaten egg ; drop in a handful of parsley leaves. 

Green Pea kSoup. — Four lbs. of lean beef cut into small 
pieces, \ peck of green peas and 1 gallon of water ; first boil the 
empty pod of the peas in the water for one hour and strain them 
ofl?; then add the beef and boil slowly for li hours ; half an 
hour before serving take out the bone and add the peas ; 20 min- 
uter later \ a cup of rice flour and salt and pepper to taste ; after 
adding the rice flour stir frequently to keep from burning. 

Tomato Soup. — Three quarts veal broth, pepper and salt to 
taste, 1 carrot, h cup of rice, 2 tablespoon fu Is of flour mixed 
with cold water, 12 tomatoes, a little ground cloves, 1 sliced 
lemon and a little sugar. 

Carrot Soup. — Two lbs. of beef, 6 quarts of cold water; add 
3 or 4 spoonsful of salt, 12 carrots (cut up), 3 raw potatoes (sliced), 
and 2 onions, with a few cloves put in them ; let all boil 7 or 8 
hours, after which mash the pieces if any, and strain through a 
sieve ; add some rolled cracker. 

Brunsw^ick Chicken Stew. — Two chickens and 5 quarts of 
water; boil until tender; remove all the meat from the bones, 
pick it fine and put it back into the broth, after taking off" all the 
fat; about 2 hours before dinner add 6 potatoes, chopped fine; 
after chopping them, boil separately for a few moments ; draw 
off" the water before adding them to the soup ; 1 quart of toma- 
toes, 1 pint of sweet corn, a little cayenne pepper, 1 tablespoon- 
full of Worcestershire sauce and salt to taste ; add 4 hard-boiled 
eggs, 2 chopped and two sliced, and sprinkle in some oyster 
crackers ; the corn and tomatoes should be well cooked ; add 
the eggs and crackers last ; if the tomatoes are very sour add 
a spoonful of sugar. 

G^ EORGE P. SCHROLL, Dealer in Boots and Shoes, No. 225 South 
T High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



COLEMAN & FELBER, Bakers and Confectioners, No. 216 South 
High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 

Cool^ (^oo~k.. 7 

Mutton Soup. — Cut a neck of mutton into four pieces, put it 
aside, take a slice of the gammon of bacon and put it in a sauce- 
pan with a quart of peas, with enough of water to boil them ; let 
the peas boil to a pulp and strain them through a cloth ; put 
them aside, add enough water to that in which the bacon, is to 
boil the mutton ; slice 3 turnips, as many carrots, and boil for 
an hour slowly ; add sweet herbs, onions, cabbage and lettuce, 
chopped small ; stew |- of an hour longer, sufficient to cook the 
mutton ; then take it out, take some fresh green peas, add them, 
with some chopped parsley and the peas first boiled, to the soup; 
put in a lump of butter rolled in flour and stew till the green 
peas are done. 

Geeen Pea Soup. — Take some young carrots, turnips, onions, 
celery and cabbage-lettuces, cut them in slices and put them into 
a stew-pan, with a little butter and some lean ham cut in pieces ; 
cover them closely and let them stew for a short time ; fill up 
with stock sufficient for the soup required and let it boil until the 
vegetables are quite soft, adding a few leaves of mint and the 
crust of a roll ; pound all, and having boiled a quart of peas, as 
green as you can, strain them off and pound them also; mix 
them with the rest of the ingredients and pass through a sieve ; 
heat it and season with salt, pepper and sugar; add a few young 
boiled peas and use the spinach to restore it. 

Economical Soup. — Put into a sauce-pan one-pound pieces of 
stale bread, 3 large onions (sliced), a small cabbage cut fine, a 
carrot and turnip, and a small head of celery (or the remains of 
any cold vegetables), a tablespoonful of salt, a tablespooafui of 
pepper, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of marjoram and thyme ; 
put these into two quarts of any weak stock (the liquor in which 
the mutton has been put will do), and let them boil for 2 hours; 
rub thi'ough a fine hair sieve, add a pint of new milk, boil up 
and serve at once. 

ENTREES. 

Cod Fish Cakes. — Take cod fish, prick it to pieces ; let it 
soak over night ; in the morning, boil some potatoes, and when 
done, mash thoroughly; then add 1 egg, well beaten, and the 
picked cod fish ; roll in balls, and fry in hot lard until brown. 

Corn Oysters. — Mix 1 pint of grated green corn with 3 table- 
spoonfuls of milk, 1 teacup of flour and i teacup of melted butter, 
1 egg, 1 teaspoonful of salt, ^ teaspoonful of pepper ; fry in 
butter. 



A^ 



KINS & HAMPSON, Dealers in Stoves, Ranges, Tinware, Fur- 
naces, and Tinners' Stock, No. 216 S. High St., Columbus, 0. 



HAL:M, bellows & butler, Manufacturers of Furniture, 194 
and 196 South High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 

8 T'Jze JEcltpse 

Omelet. — Six eggs, beat the yolks ; \ cup of milk, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of flour; melt a piece of butter the size of au egg, mix Avith 
the flour and milk, then pour this over the yolks, adding a little 
salt ; beat the ^vhites of the eggs to a froth, and stir them in ; fry 
in a well-heated spider in butter ; serve while hot ; lay on a heated 
platter. 

Maccaroni. — Wash it well ; put it with sufllicient amount of 
salt, into cold water, enough to allow it much swelling ; hang it 
over the Are till tender ; pour off half the water, and add as 
much milk, and grate on cheese to taste ; let it boil till done ; the 
whole time occupying about 45 minutes ; turn with a colander ; 
then put it into a sauce-pan with a little butter ; send to the 
table hot. 

Cold Slaw. — Cup the cabbage either in very fine strings or 
chop very fine; for dressing, take 3 well beaten eggs, and 1 pint 
of vinegar ; let them come to a boil ; stir in a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut; 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 1 of salt, \ of pepper, 
\ of sugar and \ of cream ; pour over the cabbage while hot. 

Potato Puff. — Take 2 cups of mashed potatoes ; 1 table- 
spoonful of butter; mix well; then add 2 eggs, well beaten, and 
1 cup of milk; bake in quick oven. — Kaie, St. Clair, Columbus, 0. 

Dressing for Cold Slaw. — Place 1 pint of vinegar on the 
stove ; while heating, mix and beat well the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 
small tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, 1 teaspoon- 
ful of prepared mustard, h teaspoonful salt ; do not add this mix- 
ture to the vinegar while boiling, as it may curdle ; pour over the 
chopped cabbage, and set it in a cool place. — H. J. H. 

Maccaroni with Cheese. — Boil maccaroni in water until soft, 
drain off" the water, then stew it with a little butter, cream and 
cheese, season to the taste with salt and spices ; put into a dish 
and place in a hot oven to brown. 

Baked Tomato. — Take six smooth round tomatoes, not too 
ripe, cut a slice fi-om the smooth end of each, and with a teaspoon 
carefully remove the pulp ; lay each slice with the tomato it was 
cut from ; then hash one onion and a little white cabbage ; crumb 
in two slices of light bread; add a half cup of sweet cream, a 
little butter and sugar, salt and pepper to taste. Fill the toma- 
toes, replace the covers, butter a baking pan, lay the stem side 
down, and bake \ hour. If nicely done, they are a handsome 
dish, and are really excellent. They should be carefully taken 
from the baking pan. — Mm Longlecker, Columbus, 0. 

ILLER & BRADLEY, Dealers in Stamped & Japanned Ware ; 
also Tin and Sheet-Iron Ware. S. W. cor. Friend <fe Fourth Sts. 



M 



~rOS. GUNDERSHEIMEE, Dealer in Ready-Made Clothing, Gents' 
fj Fine Furnishing Goods, &c., Cor. High and State Sts., Columbus, 0. 

CooTl q^ooJz. 9 

Fried Egg Plant. — Cut it in slices li inches in thickness; 
strew a little salt over each, and lay on a plate for 10 minutes ; 
let the water run out ; dip each slice in a well beaten egg and 
then in rolled cracker or bread crumbs, and fry iu lard as oysters. 
—a C. B. Chicago. 

Celery Slaw. — Take 1 bunch of celery with some of the 
small leaves ; chop it up fine with a hash knife ; put a teaspoonful 
of butter in a stew-pan, Avith a little water and a pinch of salt ; 
put the hashed celery in ; let it boil five minutes. Take 1 egg 
and beat it well ; pour a little vinegar with the egg, and an even 
tablespoonful of sugar ; pour over the celery. — Mrs. Mason, Co- 
lumbus, 0. 

Potato Scollop. — Take 6 or 8 potatoes ; pare and slice 
thin ; put into your pan a layer of potatoes, a little salt, pepper 
and butter, and a small amount of flour ; then add another layer 
of potatoes ; pour on enough milk to almost cover them ; then 
bake. Sweet potatoes may be done the same way. — Kate St. Clair. 

Omelet. — (Splendid.) — Take 6 eggs ; yolks well beaten and 
whites to a stiff froth ; 1 cup lukewarm milk, with a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, a tablespoonful of flour, a little salt ; mix all 
except the whites, which last, stir briskly, and have ready the 
frying pan, with a little hot lard ; pour in the mixture and let it 
brown slowly ; when the eggs are set, lap the side over, and slip 
on a hot plate, and serve. 

Green Corn Patties. — Take 12 ears of grated or scraped 
corn; 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of flour; salt and pepper to taste; 1 
egg ; drop in small cakes in hot butter or lard. 

To Boil Artichokes. — If they are young ones have about 1 
inch of stalk ; put them in a strong salt water for an hour or two ; 
then put into a pan of cold water ; set them over the fire, but do 
not cover them up, it will take off" their color ; when you dish them 
up, put rich melted butter in small cups or pots ; put them in the 
dish with your artichokes, and send them up. 

To Boil Asparagus. — Scrape your asparagus and tie them in 
small bunches ; boil them in a pan with salt and water ; before 
you dish them up, toast slices of bread, and dip them in the boil- 
ing water ; lay the asparagus on them ; pour over them melted 
butter, and serve hot. 



R 



OCKEY, TWIGG & LINK, Pump Makers and Well Drivers, 
No. 225 East Friend St., Columbus, Ohio. 



T 



H. SCHNEIDER & CO., Dealers in Steinway Pianos, " Valley 
, Gem" Pianos, Estey Organs, &c., 144 S. High St., Columbus, 0. 



10 Tl-te Eclipse 

BREAD AND FLITTERS. 

Brown Bread. — Two cups of sifted Indian meal, 1 cup of 
rye meal, not sifted, 1 cup of wheat flour, f of a cup of molasses, 
1^ pints of sweet milk or 1 quart of sour milk, 1 teaspoonful of 
saleratus ; if an egg is added, steam 2\ hours and bake 1 hour ; 
without, steam 5 and bake 1. 

Another Way. — One quart of corn meal, 1 full pint of rye 
meal, 1 cup of molasses, 1 quart of milk and one cup of yeast ; 
let it raise over uight, then add a teaspoonful of soda ; steam 3^ 
hours, then bake. 

Hop Yeast. — Put 6 or 8 potatoes in 1 quart of cold water 
and \ lb. of hops in a bag ; put the bag in with the potatoes to 
boil ; when the potatoes are well done pour the water from them 
on 1 quart of flour ; then mash the potatoes well and mix with 
flour ; add 1 tablespoonful of salt and one cup of good yeast to 
raise it. 

Potato Bread. — Time to bake, \\ to 2 hours ; 2^ lbs. of 
mealy potatoes ; 7 lbs. of flour ; ^ of a pint of yeast ; 2 oz. of 
salt ; boil 2 lbs. of nice mealy potatoes till floury ; rub and mash 
them smooth ; then mix them with sufficient cold water to let 
them pass through a coarse sieve, and any lump that remains 
must be again mashed and pressed through. Mix this paste with 
the yeast and then add it to the flour ; set it to rise, well knead 
it and make it into a stiff", tough dough. 

Rye Bread. — Three quarts of corn meal, scalded with 1\ 
quarts of boiling water, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 tea cup of mo- 
lasses ; let it cool a few minutes and add 1 quart of rye flour and 

1 quart of buttermilk, with a heaping teaspoonful of saleratus 
stirred into it ; bake 4 or 5 hours. 

Corn Bread. — One quart of sour milk, 2 tablespoons of flour, 
3 eggs, \ teaspoonful of salt and as much corn meal as will make 
a stiff", batter. 

Hard Ginger Bread. — One cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 

2 cups of flour, 1 teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little 
sour milk, 2 eggs and ginger or nutmeg according to taste. 

Soft Ginger Bread. — One pint of molasses, 1 tablespoon- 
ful of butter, 1 egg, 1 cup of milk, 2 tablespoonfuls of ginger, 2 
tablespoonfuls of baking powder and flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. 



M 



ICHAEL S. ROCKEY, Manufacturer of Wood Pumps, No. 121 
East Friend Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



I 



SAAC B. POTTS' Brass aud Pipe Works, corner Spring and Water 
Streets, Columbus, Ohio. 



CooTx. ^oolz. 11 

Corn Bread. — Two tablespoonfuls of butter, ^ teacup of 
syrup, 2 cups of fresh meal, 1 cup of wheat flour, 1 pint sweet 
milk, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of salt and 2 of baking powder ; mix 
well the meal, flour, powder and salt; then add the other 
articles. 

Biscuit. — One quart of flour, 2 heaping teaspoons of baking 
powder, ^ teaspoonful of salt, h teaspoonful of shortening; mix 
with sweet milk or water ; mix soft and do not knead ; bake in 
hot oven. — Mrs. A. J. H. Chicago. 

Buckwheat Cakes. — One quart of buckwheat, 3 heaping 
teaspoonfuls of baking powder and a little salt ; mix the batter 
with milk. 

Pan-Cakes, — Same as buckwheat, substituting wheat flour. 

Graham Gems. — Three teaspoonfuls of baking jwwder, 1 
quart of (irraham flour, thoroughly mixed while dry; mix with 
milk to a batter, then add one egg, well beaten ; drop in muffin 
rings, or well iieated muffin irons ; bake in a quick oven. — Mrs. 
Matson Hill, Chicago. 

MuEFiNS. — Time, 20 to 30 minutes; 1| oz. of yeast, a quart 
of warm milk, a teaspoonful of salt and some flour ; add a quart 
of warm milk to 1^ oz. of yeast and a teaspoonful of salt; then 
mix it into rather a soft dough, with a sufficient quantity of flour 
for that purpose ; cover it over with a thick cloth and set it to 
rise near the fire ; when nicely raised divide it into as many 
pieces as you please and form them into a round with your hands ; 
spread a thick layer of flour on a wooden tray, put the muffins on 
it and let them rise again ; then bake them on a hot stove or 
plate until they are lightly colored, turning them once. 

Sally Lunn Cakes. — Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of light yeast 
into a pint of warm new milk, or cream if you wish the cakes 
very good; rub 4 oz. of butter into 2 pounds of flour, stew into 
it ^ a teaspoonful of salt, then pour in the milk gradually, beat- 
ing up the batter with a wooden spoon as you proceed ; add the 
yolks of 3 eggs, well beaten, and when sraoothlv mixed let it 
rise an hour before the fire ; then fill your cake tins and bake 15 
to 20 minutes in a quick oven. 

Waffles. — One pint of milk, 1 teaspoonful of cream tartar ; 
■| teaspoonful of soda, a lump of butter the size of an egg, 4 e^'gs 
and flour enough to make a thick batter ; fry in hot waffle irons 
greased with butter. 

H ALLEY & SCHWARZ, Plumbers and Pipe Fitters, Northwest 
corner Town and Third Sts., Columbus, Ohio. 



GILCHRIST & DOBBIE, Wholesale and Retail Dealers in Staple 
and Fancy Dry Goods, Nos. 19, 21 & 23 S. High St., Columbus, 0. 

12 TTze JEdipse, 

Egg Puffs. — Two cups of milk, 2 cups of flour, 2 eggs and 
a pinch of salt ; bake in cups half an hour. 

PuFFiT. — One cup of sugar, \ cup of butter, 3 eggs, 3 pints of 
flour, 2^ cups of sweet milk, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; 
bake 20 minutes in a slow oven. 

Yeast for Salt-rising. — One-half teaspoon ful of salt, 1 
teaspoonful of sugar, 1 pint warm water, flour sufficient to mix 
into tolerably thick batter ; scrape in 1 small potato and beat 
well ; set yeast early in the morning ; 4 hours after stir in a 
handful of flour; if all right will rise in 2 or 3 hours, when 
make the same as light bread ; knead well. — Mr&. L. Bradley, 
New Albany, Incl. 

Graham Muffing. — One pint of milk, 2 cups of Graham 
flour, 1 cup of wheat flour, 1 egg, a little salt ; bake in quick oven. 

Fritters. — For plain fritters, grate the crumb of a penny loaf 
into a pint of milk over the fire, and stir it until it is very smooth ; 
when cold, add the yolks of 5 eggs and 3 tablespoonfuls of sifted 
sugar, and season with grated nutmeg ; fry in lard, and serve with 
pudding sauce. 

Apple Fritters. — Take the yolks of 6 eggs and the whites of 
3 ; heat them well and strain them ; then add a pint of milk, a lit- 
tle salt, h grated nutmeg, and a glass spiced vinegar; make this 
into a thick batter with fine flour; slice the apples in rounds; cut 
out the core ; dust them with fine sugar, and let them stand for 2 
hours ; when ready, dip each slice in the batter, and fry in plenty 
of boiling lard over a quick fire ; cover with sugar, and serve. 

Another Method. — Make a batter with flour and yeast, 
adding 2 tablespoonfuls of oil to 1 lb. of flour ; make it thick 2 
hours before using it. 

And Another. — Make a batter as thick as paste of one table- 
spoonful of olive oil, a little salt, the yolks of 4 eggs, and a 
spoonful of orange flower water, with as much flour as will thicken 
it ; beat the whites of 2 eggs stiff", and stir them in ; make this 
an hour or two before it is used ; dip the fruit in this batter, and 
fry until they are of a fine light yellow ; lay them on a soft cloth, 
after frying, to drain ; sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot. 

Spanish Fritters. — Cut the soft part of a French roll into 
lengths as thick as the finger, and of any shape; soak in cream, 
with pounded cinnamon and 1 beaten egg ; when soaked, fry a 
nice brown, and serve with butter, and sugar-sauce. 

ELLIOTT & ARMSTEAD, Photographers, No. 25 South High St., 
Columbus, Ohio. 



ADAMS, ARMSTRONG & WEADON, Dealers in Lumber, Lath, 
Shingles, &c., Cor. West and Randolph Sts., Columbus, Ohio. 

CooJz. qE^ooTz.. 13 

Italian Fritters. — Are served at all good tables ; they are 
made of fowl's livers, sweet breads, brains, fish, fruit, each mixed 
in butter, and fried in oil. 

Potato Fritters. — Boil 2 large potatoes, and sift them ; boil 
4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, Avith 1 tablespoouful of cream, 
and a squeeze of a lemon ; beat all to a batter for at least 
least \ hour; put some lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of 
the batter at a time in it when it is hot ; for sauce, take the juice 
of a lemon, cup of sugar, glass spiced vinegar^ and dessert-spoonful 
of peach or almond water; warm together, and serve in a sauce- 
boat. 

Another Method. — Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a bat- 
ter seasoned with lemon and fry; serve with white sugar over 
them. 

Still Another. — Boil a pound of mealy potatoes, mash and 
sift them ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs 
and a little pepper and salt ; mix and roll into balls and fry 
brown. Some add a very little minced shalat. 

Curd Fritters. — Rub a pint of dry curd in a mortar; add 
the yolks of 4 and the whites of 2 well-beaten eggs, 1 table- 
spoonful of sugar, \ a spoonful of flour, and spice or flavor to 
suit the taste ; drop the batter into a frying-pan with a little but- 
ter or fine lard. 

Kidney Fritters. — Beat 4 eggs, add \\ gills of cream, pep- 
per and salt, parsley and chives cut fine, and chopped mush- 
rooms; to this batter add some of the kidney chopped with the 
fat from the loin of veal minced, and mix all well together ;, rub 
the pan well with butter and pour in the whole, stirring it while 
it cooks, so as to keep it from spreading too much ; when done, 
hold it a minute or two before the fire to biown. 

Muffins Without Eggs. — Make a sponge as for bread, only 
mix it with milk (skimmed will do) in the morning; the next 
morning put in enough saleratus to sweeten it, and bake on a 
griddle in greased rings. Any person in the habit of baking pan 
cakes or muffins will know how thick to make the batter, and in 
a few mornings it is learned by experience. Immediately after 
breakfast add milk and flour to the batter left in the dish to use 
the next morning, as the secret of having muffins without batter 
or eggs seems to be in having the batter stand 24 hours. 



C 



EVERETT & SONS, Dealers in Fine and Staple Family Groceries, 
, Corner Washington Avenue & Oak Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



KINNEAR & SONS, INIanufacturers of Galvanized Iron Cornice, 
Window and Door Caps, &c., 42 W. Broad St., Columbus, O. 

14 T7ze Eclipse 

Tongue and Ham Toast. — Grate half a cold smoked tongue 
or ham, mix it with cream and the beaten yolks of eggs; simmer 
it over the fire ; toast some thin slices of bi'ead without the crust, 
butter them liberally, and cover with the mixture ; good for break- 
fast or tea. 

Sally Lunn. — One quart flour, 4 eggs, \ cup melted butter 
(or \ of lard), 1 cup warm milk, 1 cup warm water, 4 table- 
spoons yeast, 1 teaspoon salt, \ teaspoon soda ; beat eggs to a stiff" 
froth, add the milk, w^ater, butter, soda and salt; stir the flour 
to a smooth batter; beat the yeast in and set to rise in a buttered 
pudding dish to bake; eat hot. — Mrs. Captain W. H. Bisbee. 

Johnny Cake. — Two cups of corn meal, 2 cups of wheat 
flour, 2h cups of milk, one cup of molasses, one teaspoonful of 
soda, a little salt ; bake in a quick oven, and eat while hot; very 
nice for breai^fast dish. — 31. G. Miller, Columbus, Ohio. 



. MEATS AND SAUCES. 

Sweetbread. — Lard them with salt pork, boil in water 15 
minutes, then put them in cold water 10 minutes ; put in drip- 
ping pans, dredge with flour, pepper, salt and a little mace ; ^ 
pint of water ; bake 20 minutes until brown. 

Veal Ducks, — Make stufiing of bread, seasoned with salt and 
pepper, little onion and cloves. Take veal cutlets from the round, 
remove the bone, spread on the stuffing, and roll and tie. Roast 
them like young ducks. 

Roast Beef. — The English rule for roasting meat is 15 min- 
utes to the pound. Put your roast in a dripping pan, sprinkle 
well with ffour, salt and pepper, have plenty of water around it; 
have the oven an even heat; one hour before done put in peeled 
potatoes enough for your dinners, and let them roast with the 
meat. 

Another Way. — If a rib roast, have the bones removed, and 
rolled in such a way as to leave a hole in the centre ; fill this up 
with stufiing made of bread, and roast as above. 

Pickle for Beep. — For 100 lbs. of beef, pork or ham, take 
6 gallons of water, 9 lbs. of salt, (half coarse and half fine,) 
3 lbs. sugar, 1 qt. molasses, 3 oz. of saltpetre; boil until the scum 
ceases to rise, and skim well ; when cool, put on your beef; rub 
your beef first with fine salt. 

FRANKLIN MACHINE CO., Manufacturers of General Machinery, 
Iron and Brass Castings, &c., 192 Water Street, Columbus, O. 



CARLISLE, SAVIERS & CO., Dealers in Groceries and Provisions, 
No. 153 North High Street, Columbus. Ohio. 

Coo'k. c^ooTz.. 15 

Roast Turkey or Chicken. — After cleaning the fowl and 
stuffing it well with the dressing, place in your dripping pan flour 
well sprinkled with salt and pepper ; have plenty of water round 
it while cooking; be careful to keep it basted, (that is to dip the 
water from around it and pour over it to keep it from crisping.) 
As a substitute for oysters in the dressing, cabbage may be used; 
cut up fine about as much cabbage as would equal one-third the 
amount of bread used in it, and mix thoroughly; one chopped 
onion may be added if desired. 

Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. — This useful sauce is largely 
used for warming up many kinds of meat, fowl or fish, and thus 
making a handsome addition to a dinner. The foundation must 
be half a pint of clear stock, or gravy ; put this into a sauce-pan 
and thicken with a ounce of butter rolled into as nc uch flour as 
will form it into a smooth paste ; stir it over the fire till well 
mixed, then add a teaspoonful of salt, aquarter as much Cayenne, 
a dessertspoonful of lemon juice, and as much very finely-minced 
parsley. Simmer for a few minutes, and before you serve, thicken 
with the well-beaten yolks of 3 eggs, stirred in with great care 
to keep from curdling. 

Poor Man's Sauce. — This sauce, notwithstanding its unprom- 
ising name, is excellent for roast turkey, and is popular even in 
France. Put a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley with a 
teaspoonful of grated horseradish, into a tureen ; sprinkle these 
with a teaspoonful of salt, and add 2 tablespoonsful of oil, and 
4 of vinegar. Mix all well together before you send it in. 

EoAST Ham. — Take a fine ham, soak over night in luke-warm 
water, next morning skin and put into a baking pan with water 
as for roast beef; when nearly done, cover with brown sugar and 
stick with cloves ; continue the basting until done ; 1 pint of vin- 
egar added to the gravy on^ hour before done, is an improvement. 
Miss Longnecker. 

Jellied Chickens. — Three chickens prepared as for fricasee ; 
when boiled tender, take them from the broth, when cold skim ofl" 
the oil, remove all the fat, skin and bones from two chickens, ^ 
box of Cox's Gelatine, and dissolve it in the broth ; season with 
salt and cayenne pepper, add a piece of butter when the gelatine 
is dissolved and the broth boils ; fill the ornamental part of the 
mould, let it cool, keeping the rest of the broth warm ; when cold, 
fill the mould with alternate layers of the chicken and broth. 
The broth should be well boiled so that it will jelly. — Mrs. G. 

ARRIS & BIGELOW, Wholesale and Retail Commission Mer- 
chants in all kinds of Country Produce, 114 S. Fourth Street. 



H 



A 



H. HALL & CO., Dealers in Boots and Shoes, No. 105 North 
, High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



]6 TKe, :Ecltpse 

A Common Sauce for Boiled Fish. — Half a pint of veal 
gravy with 2 tablespoon.sful of the watei' in which the fish has 
been boiled, a whole onion, and a tablespoonful of walnut catsup ; 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, then strain, and thicken with an 
ounce of butter rolled in flour. 



Sandwich. — Yolks of three hard boiled eggs, 1 pound of but- 
ter, .2 teaspoonsful of table mustard, pepper and salt, mix all and 
rub to a cream ; spread your bread, then lay on a slice of boiled 
ham or tongue, then another layer of bread. 

Baked Pork and Beans — 2 quarts of white dried beans, 
soaked in cold water over night ; next morning boil until the 
beans crack open ; of course the beans must be well washed and 
picked before being soaked ; 2 pounds of pickled pork well 
washed and boiled in a separate pot for an hour ; then half an 
hour before dinner put the beans in a pan and the meat in the 
centre of them, covering it over well with the beans ; pour over 
a little of the water in which the beans have been boiled, and 
let it bake for half an hour: bake brown. — Mrs. J. H. H. 



Liver Balls. — Boil a beef liver until well done, then hash 
very fine, salt, pepper, dredge with flour, beat 1 egg and add to 
it and fry in balls in hot lard ; some add a little chopped celery 
or parsley; good breakfast dish. — Mrs. Samuel Mc, Philadelphia, 
Penn. 

Boiled Ham — Boil 3 or 4 hours, according to size, skin it, set 
it in the oven for half an hour, then rub it over with an egg ; 
also cover it well with bread crumbs, and set it back again in the 
oven. 

To Boil a Tongue. — If your tongue be a dry one, steep it 
in water all night and boil it 3 hours ; if you would have it to 
eat hot stick it with cloves, rub it over with the yolk of an egg 
and bread crumbs, baste it with butter and set it before the fire 
until it is light browui ; when you dish it up pour over brown 
gravy. 

Veal Loaf. — Three lbs. veal, \ lb. salt pork, \ pt. of rolled 
crackers, salt and pepper, 1 tablespoonful sweet majorum chopped 
together; bake one hour and a quarter. 



LODWICK D. DAVIES, Dealer in Select Family Groceries, Blawd 
Lymri, S. W. corner Gay and Third Streets, Columbus, O. 



w 



M. G. DUNN & CO., Dealers in Dry Goods and Carpets, Nos. 
25, 27 and 29 N. High Street, Columbus, 0. 



CooJz. (^ooTz. 17 

FISH AND SALADS. 

Scolloped Fish. — Four lbs. of fish, Halibut, boil the fish ; when 
cool, prick it fine; boil one pint of milk with one sliced onion; 
take out the onion and add ^ lb. of butter rubbed with 3 table- 
spoonsful of flour and salt; when cold put in a layer of fish and 
cream, alternating with bits of butter; on top put a thick layer 
of bread crumbs and a little butter, over which squeze the juice 
of one lemon; bake 15 minutes. 

Frying Fish. — Wash and wipe the soles perfectly dry, rub 
them over lightly with a little flour, and cover them with bread 
crumbs and the yolk of an egg; then place them in a pan of boil- 
ing dripping, or lard, sufficiently to completely cover them, and 
when done, place them on a dish before the kitchen fire. The 
inexperienced hand will thus be able to send them to table crisp, 
and of a beautiful brown color; but if the fat be insufficient, or 
not quite hot when the soles are put in the pan, they will be 
flabby and greasy. Too small a quantity of fat is the most com- 
mon error. 

To Boil Trout. — Wash and dry your trout with a clean nap- 
kin, empty, and wipe very clean within ; but wash him not, and 
give him three scotches to the bone on one side only. Take a 
clean kettle, and put in as much hard, stale beer vinegar, and a 
little spiced vinegar and water as will cover your fish, and throw 
in a good quantity ot salt, the rind of a lemon, a handful of 
sliced horseradish, and a handsome light fagot of rosemary, thyme, 
and winter savory. Set the kettle on a quick fire, and let it boil 
up to the height before you put in your fish ; and if there be many, 
put in one at a time, that they may not so cool the liquor as to 
make it fall; and while your fish is boiling, beat up the butter 
for your sauce with a ladleful or two of the liquor it is boiling in ; 
and being boiled enough, pour the liquor from the fish; and being 
laid on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and strew horseradish 
and a little pounded ginger. Garnish with sliced lemon. — I. W. 

Fish Chowder. — -T^ke some fat pork, cut in slices and lay in 
the bottom of your pot; cut some fresh cod in slices, lay on top 
of the pork, then a layer of biscuit, then alternate with the pork 
and cod ; put in 1 quart of water and let simmer until the fish is 
done; season with pepper and salt and such sauce as you like; 
make a thickenig of flour with a coffee cup of cream. Clam 
Chowder is made the same way ; cut off' the heads and leatheiy 
parts. — Miss L. R. B. 

F. EDWARDS & CO., Manufacturers and Dealers in Boots and 
, Shoes, No. 123 S. High Street, Columbus, O. 
2 



D 



o 



SBORN, KERSHAW & CO., Dealers in Carpets, Curtains and 
Dry Goods, No. 128 S. High Street, Columbus, O. 



18 TTxe. J^cltpse 

Oyster Toast. — Cut as many slices of bread as desired, toast 
and butter on both sides ; have ready a mixture of the yolks of 
4 eggs, well beaten, and mix with ^ pint of cream ; put it in your 
sauce-pan and set it over the fire to simmer until thick, but not 
boil ; stir it well to keep it smooth ; when it just comes to a boil 
take it off; have your oysters broiled or fried, place them be- 
tween the slices of toast and pour this mixture over them ; serve 
hot. Tongue Toast may be made the same way ; a few blades of 
mace boiled with the cream and eggs improves the taste. 

Fried Eels. — Eels should be boiled a few minutes before they 
are fried, then dip them in egg and rolled crackers or bread 
crumbs; fry in hot lard or butter. — Mi&s L. B., New York. 

Stewed Codfish. — Pick the codfish an hour before cooking ; 
soak in water, changing the water several times; 20 minutes is 
long enough to stew it; make cream thickening ; eat with mashed 
potatoes. 

Halibut. — Rub the fish well with salt, put it in a kettle with 
enough boiling water to cover it ; as soon as it boils remove it 
where it will only simmer; let it simmer for 1 hour; then take 
out the fish and draw the bones ; put 1 oz. of flour in a sauce- 
pan, to which add by degrees 1 quart of cream or milk, mixing 
it smoothly ; then add the juice of 1 lemon, 1 small onion 
chopped fine, a bunch of parsley, nutmeg, salt and pepper ; put 
the mixture on the fire and stir until it forms a thick sauce ; stir 
in \ lb. of butter, strain through a sieve, put a little sauce on the 
dish, then the fish ; turn the remainder of the sauce over it, beat 
the whites of 6 eggs to a froth, spread over the whole and bake 
half an hour ; it should be light brown when done. 

Lobsters and Crabs. — The lobster, which is in good season 
from September to June, should be bought living and plunged 
into boiling water in which a good proportion of salt has been 
mixed, which destroys life immediately; it must continue to boil, 
according to size, from 20 minutes to an hour; the crab should 
be boiled in the same manner, but little more than half the time 
is necessary. 

To Broil Trout. — Choose trout of the middle size ; empty, 
wash and wipe them ; then dip them in melted butter, and broil 
them over a clear fire. Serve with parsley, butter, or Halford 
sauce. 



J 



L. PRESTON, Manufacturer of and Dealer in Boots and Shoes, 
, No. 113 S. High Street, Columbus, 0. 



s 



T. CLAIR & SCOTT, Dealers in Choice Vegetable and Flower 
Seeds, Hardware, &c., Cor. High and Friend Streets, Columbus, O. 



Coo'k, c^oolz. 19 

To Scallop Oysters. — Open a pint of oysters and put them 
with their own liquor in a stew-pan to heat for 5 minutes; then 
take them out and beard them, strain the iiquor, add to it 3 oz. 
of butter, rolled in flour, and put the oysters in it for 5 minutes 
more; butter a scallop shell and strew it with crumbs, then put 
a layer of oysters and layer of crumbs, with thin slices of butter 
over them till the shell is filled; cover it with crumbs and slices 
of butter, and pour the liquor over, then brown in an oven and 
serve ; seasoning may be added, if preferred, but most epicures 
like the natural taste of the oyster. 

Lobster and Fish Salads. — A very nice and elegant dish 
may be made with all kinds of cold fish, and some kinds of shell 
fish ; the following way of dressing is for a small lobster salad, 
and will do for all fish salads : Have the bowl half filled with 
any kind of salad herb you like ; then break a lobster in two, 
open the tail, extract the meat in one piece, break the claws, cut 
the meat of both in small slices, about \ of an inch thick ; 
arrange these tastefully on the salad ; take out all the soft part 
of the belly, mix it in a basin with a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
one of pepper, 4 of vinegar, 4 of oil ; stir it well together, and 
pour on the salad ; then cover it with 2 hard eggs cut in slices, a 
few slices of cucumber, and, to vary, a few capers and some fil- 
lets of anchovy. 

Lobster Salad. — A lobster, yolks of 2 eggs, a spoonful of 
made mustard, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a taste of vinegar, 
a little salt and some fresh lettuces or celery; pick all the meat 
out of the lobster, thoroughly beat the yolks of 2 new-laid eggs, 
beat in made mustard to taste, and, continuing to beat them, 
drop in 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil ; add whatever flavoring 
may be preferred, a taste of vinegar and some salt; mix in 6 
tablespoonfuls of vinegar and the soft part of the lobster ; moisten 
the remainder of the lobster with this, and lay it at the bottom of 
the bowl ; cut up the lettuce, take care that it is well rolled over 
in the dressing, and put it over the lobster ; mustard can be left 
out if it is not liked ; the above quantity is given for the propor- 
tions, and can be increased according to the lobster employed. 

Salad Mixture. — One boiled potato, 1 saltspoon of salt, 2 of 
white powdered sugar, 1 mustardspoonful of mustard, 1 table- 
spoonful of oil, 1 teaspoonful of Halford's sauce and some vine- 
gar ; boil a nice mealy potato and mash it very smooth ; add all 
the other ingredients, and when the whole is well mixed eat it up. 

EO. L. TAFT & CO., Dealers in Dry Goods and Notions, No. 85 
N. High Street, Columbus, 0. 



G 



L 



GUGLE & SON, Blacksmiths, Horse Shoers and Jobbers, No. 33 
, Scioto Street, between State and Broad Streets. 



20 TTce ^Ecltpse 

Chicken Salad. — The white meat of a chicken, the weight 
in celery, the yolk of 1 raw Qg^ and 1 hard-boiled, a teaspoonful 
of salt, the same of pepper, -| teaspoonful of mustard, a table- 
spoonful of salad oil, 1 of white wine vinegar and 1 teaspoonful 
of extract of celery ; take the white meat of a chicken, boiled, 
cut it small or mince it fine ; take the same quantity, or more, of 
white, tender celery, cut small, and mix the celery and chicken 
together an hour or two before it is wanted, then add the dress- 
ing made thus : Break the yolk of a hard-boiled egg very fine 
with a silver fork, add to it the yolk of a raw egg and the pepper 
and salt, with h tablespoonful of made mustard, work all smoothly 
together, adding gradually a tablespoonful of salad oil and the 
same of white wine vinegar ; mix the chicken with the dressing, 
pile it up in the dish and spread some of the dressing over the 
outside ; garnish with the delicate leaves of the celery, the white 
of the egg cut into rings, green pickles cut in slices, pickled beet 
root in slices and stars and placed alternately with the rings of 
egg and the leaves. 



PICKLES. 

Green Tomato Pickles, — Take the large, smooth apple 
tomato, cut in 2 or o slices, and about 1 good-sized onion to 4 
tomatoes, also sliced ; put in layers in a jar, with a slight sprink- 
ling of salt between each layer ; let them stand over night; in 
the morning remove from the brine, rinse in cold water, drain 
thoroughly; then pour ovei', to cover them, enough vinegar, which 
has previously boiled half an hour, with cloves and whole pepper ; 
pieces of horse radish root will prevent scum rising on any pickles ; 
pour the vinegar on while hot. 

Chow Chow Dressing. — One-half peck of green tomatoes, ^ 
peck pickling beans, ^ peck cucumbers, ^ peck onions, h peck dry 
green peppers, ^ peck dry red peppers, 1 head of cauliflower, 1 
gallon vinegar, 3 oz. curry powder, ^ lb. mustard ; mix powder 
and viiiegar in cold vinegar, and stir it into hot vinegar ; must not 
boil ; pour while hot over the vegetables. 

To Pickle Onions. — Peel the smallest onions you can get, and 
put them into strong salt water for 2 or 3 days, changing the water 
every day ; put them in jars, and pour boiling salt water over 
them 2 or 3 times; have some good vinegar, and boil it with gin- 
ger, white pepper and mace ; when the vinegar is cold, pour off 
the salt water, and pour over the vinegar. 

JACOB KINNEL, Blacksmith, Horse Shoer and Jobber, No. 103 E. 
Fulton Street, Columbus, O. 



n 



OB'T A. GAWLER, Manufacturer of and Dealer in Human Hair 

Goods, No. 77 East Town Street, Columbus, 0. 



CooTr: Q^ooTz. 21 

Cucumber Pickle. — Keep the cucumbers in salt water or 
brine, as they keep better than when pickled, unless you have pure 
cider vinegar ; if they have been in brine verj^ long before using, 
let them soak in water for 1 or 2 days, changing the Avater 2 or 3 
times ; then prepare the vinegar the same as for the pepper, add- 
ing a lump of alum the size of a hickory nut ; some add a few 
very small onions ; let it come to a boil ; then put in the cucum- 
bers, and scald them (not cook them) ; in a day or two change the 
vinegar the same as the pepper pickles. 

Sweet Pickle. — For any kind of sweet pickle, I make a rich 
syrup of cider vinegar ; spice to suit the taste ; pour over the 
fruit after being prepared, boiling hot; let stand for 2 or 3 days; 
then pour off the vinegar ; heat the same over, and pour on again ; 
repeat this 2 or 3 times to prevent fermentation ; in this case the 
same vinegar with a little more added, can be used, as there is no 
salt to kill the strength ; peaches can be pared or not — some prefer 
them not, as they think the flavor is retained better ; they should 
be well washed ; small fruits should never be broken. Water 
mellon rind makes a very good sweet pickle. 

Mangoes of Melons. — Take green melons and make a brine 
strong enough to bear up an egg ; then pour it boiling hot on the 
melons, keeping them under the brine ; let them stand 5 or 6 days, 
slit them down on one side, take out all the seeds, scrape them 
well in the inside, and wash them clean ; then take cloves, nutmeg 
and pepper ; put all these proportionately into the melons, filling 
them up with mustard seed ; then lay them into an earthen pot, 
and take one part of mustard seed and two parts of vinegar, 
enough to cover them, pouring it on scalding hot ; keep them 
closely covered. 

Cucumber Pickles. — Wash sufficient cucumbers to fill a three- 
gallon jar or tub ; put on them a teacup of salt, and cover 
them with boiling water ; let them stand over night ; then pour 
off" the water, and wipe them dry ; put them in a brass kettle, 
and cover them with vinegar ; add a piece of alum the size of a 
hickory nut ; heat gently, but not boil, but keep them warm for 
3 hours, then pour off the vinegar; put cucumbers in a jar or 
tub ; take fresh vinegar, heat it boiling hot in a brass kettle, add- 
ing spice, mustard seed and pepper to suit the taste ; skim, then 
pour it while boiling hot, on the cucumbers ; let stand for 24 hours; 
then pour off and boil, and skim the vinegar; follow the boiling 
of the same vinegar for 3 successive days, then ponr it on the cu- 
cumbers, and set aside ready for use ; use good cider vinegar. 

HILDRETH & MARTIN, Dealers in Pine and Domestic Lumber, 
Shop and Office on Third, bet. Town and State Streets, Columbus. 



c 



T. PFAFF & CO., Importers and Dealers in Crockery, Chinaand 
, Glassware, 177 S. High Street, (Opera Block), Columbus, O. 



22 TUe :EcUpse 

Tomatoes. — One peck of green tomatoes ; slice them in thin 
slices; sprinkle a tablespoonful uf salt, a)id 2 of pulverized alum 
over them ; let them stand over night ; 1 quart of vinegar put in 
a porcelain kettle; put the tomatoes in and let come to a boil; 
then pour over some cold vinegar ; let it stand 1 or 2 days ; then 
pour off the first vinegar ; take 3 pints of fresh vinegar, well 
spiced ; let it get scalding hot ; add a little sugar, and pour over 
the tomatoes while hot. 

Spiced Vinegar, for Cakes, Pies and Puddings. — Prepare 
your fruit (any kind,) as you would for making jelly, only not 
putting quite so much sugar ; then to 1 quart ot the juice put 1 
pint of the best cider vinegar ; add your cloves, cinnamon or 
whatever spices you prefer, in little thin muslin bags, so that there 
will be no drugs; let it boil a few minutes, then seal in cans or 
bottles; if you like it a little rich molasses may be added; some 
use the vinegar from spiced sweet pickles, when out of the spiced 
vinegar. 

Another Way, Chow-Chow (excellent). — One quart of green 
tomatoes, 1 doz. large cucumbers, ^ head of cabbage, 8 large 
onions, 3 doz small onions ; cut all together ; salt, and let stand 
all day ; then let them drip all night ; add to this a 25c. box of 
mustard, not quite 1 lb. of brown sugar, 1 oz. of celery seed, ^ lb. 
of white mustard seed, 2^ tablespoonfuls of black pepper ; mix 
all together in 2 or 3 quarts of vinegar ; let come to a tjood boil ; 
then add ^ pint of grated horse radish. — Mrs. Akin, Columbus, 0. 

Green Pepper Pickles. — Seed 1 peck of green peppers while 
dry ; then put in strong, salt brine ; let remain 2 or 3 days ; take 
them out and let drip awhile ; then fill with chopped cabbage, high- 
ly spiced ; then bind them with thread so that the filling will not 
fall out ; then place in your stone jar ; take enough vinegar to 
cover the whole ; put in some spices ; let come to a good boil, and 
pour over the peppers ; let them stand for 2 or 3 days ; then make 
fresh vinegar in the same way, and pour on as before ; first, pour 
off the old. 

MARMALADES AND JELLIES. 

Apple or Pear Jam. — Pare and quarter ripe juicy apples or 
pears, and boil them at a great distance from the fire till tiiey be- 
come a jam; have ready a rich syrup, and add in proportion 1 
pint of syrup to 3 lbs. of fruit, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; 
turn out into pots. 

JAMES NAUGHTON, Dealer in StapleDry Goods, Shawls, &c.,Nos. 
110 and 112 S. High Street, Columbus, O. 



SCHUELLER'S EAGLE DRUG STORK, Corner High and Rich 
Streets, Columbus, O. 

CooT^ (^oo?c. 23 

Orange Marmalade. — This delicious preserve, which requires 
the greatest care in preparation, is made chiefly of Seville oranges, 
and usually about February or March, when the Seville oranges 
are plentiful and in the best condition ; pare the outer rind from 
4 oranges for every dozen pulped, and cut the rind up into small 
chips ; scoop out the pulp, free from seeds and from the white 
inner skin, weigh the pulp and rind together before you put them 
into the preserving-pan, and have ready heated equal weight of 
loaf sugar ; let the pulp and peel boil half an hour, or till the 
chips are tender, then add the sugar; and let it boil 15 minutes 
longer ; then fill the marmalade pots. 

Quince Marmalade. — Choose fine ripe quinces, and put them 
into boiling water over the fire till they are tender, then pai'e, 
quarter, and core them ; put the cores and skins back into the 
water; boil till it is half reduced, and strain it; in the meantime, 
put the quinces over the fire, and let them stew gently with an 
equal quantity of sugar, pouring over them the strained liquor, 
breaking up the fruit with a wooden spatula, and stirring till the 
whole forms a rich marmalade ; this will require 2 or 8 hours, 
after which the marmalade may be poured into pots> 

Pear Marmalade. — Pare, divide, and core l&rge pears, boil 
them in as much water as will cover them tilli they are tender, 
then take them out, and put into the same water the parings and 
cores of the pears ; boil till half reduced, and strain ; use the 
strained liquor, in making a syrup of f of a lb. of sugar and a 
pint of water for every lb. of pears ; when this syrup is boiled 
till it jellies on the spoon put in the pears and boil up, stirring 
them for a few minutes, till the marmalade is smooth and ready 
for the pots. Extract of cochineal imparts a beautiful red color 
to jellies, syrups, marmalades and any kind of confectionery that 
requires that tint ; it keeps well and is perfectly healthful. 

Blackberry Jam. — A.s the blackberry, the most delicious of 
our native fruits, is to ba had for the trouble of gathering in most 
parts of New England, blackberry jam is one of the cheapest of 
preserves; it is, moreover, a fruit of rare and excellent quality, 
and may be eaten not only with safety, but with beneficial effects 
by all ; the berries are ripe and plentiful in September, and merely 
require nice picking, half the weight of any kind of sugar, and 
three-quarters of an hour boiling ; the single objection to the jam 
is the quantity of seeds, but the jelly made from this fruit is 
perfect. 

ELLOWS & SQUIRES, Carpenters and Builders, also can furnish 
Drawings and Specifications, 219 E. Rich Street, Columbus, 0. 



B 



D 



R. J. WILLOUGHBY, Physician and Surgeon, No. 55 East 
Livingston Avenue, Columbus, O. 



24 The Edtpse, 

Peach Marmalade. — Pare, divide and stone the fruit, and 
boil for half an hour, stirring it continually ; then add | of a lb. 
of sugar to each lb. of the fruit, and one-fourth of the kernels 
blanched, and boil up for a quarter of an hour; the marmalade 
will then be ready for the pots. 

Strawberries, preserved whole. — Take equal weights of 
strawberries and loaf sugar, put the sugar into a pan with merely 
sufficient water to dissolve it, and let it boil till the surface is cov- 
ered with small bubbles ; this will probably be in about 20 min- 
utes ; then put in the fruit, with 1 pint of red currant juice to 
each lb. of strawberries, which im])roves the color; allow it to 
boil 5 minutes, then put into small jars ; it is not necessary to use 
more sugar for the currant juice, the strawberries being of them- 
selves so sweet ; red currants or raspberries, with the addition of 
white currant juice, black currant, apricot, or other jams, may be 
made in this way ; the advantage over the old process is, that the 
quantity of jam is greater, the color finer, and the flavor ot the 
fruit perfectly retained. 

Marble Jelly. — Take any piece of orange, strawberry, and 
apple jelly of irregular form and size, and throw into a mould, 
shaking them together; then fill w\> the mould with silver jelly or 
any transparent colorless jelly, as cool as it w'ill remain liquified ; 
let it remain to be well mixed, and if tastefully arranged, this will 
be a pretty form of jelly. 

Quince Jelly. — The quinces should not be very ripe ; peel, 
quarter, and core them, and immediately put them over the fire 
with half a pint of water to each pint of fruit, and boil till ten- 
der, but not pulpy ; pour out the whole, and leave the fruit in the 
juice for 6 hours, then run it through a jelly-bag. Put the juice 
over the fire in your preserving-jian for 20 minutes, that the water 
may evaporate; then add 1 pint of clarified syrup to each pint of 
juice, stir well, and simmer for 10 minutes, then pour into the 
jelly pots. 

Pineapple Jelly. — Cut a fresh pine in slices ; cover them with 
powdered sugar, and leave them a few hours ; then pour off, and 
strain to obtain a pint of the syrup ; dissolve an ounce of isinglass 
in a pint of water and clarify it ; pour over the syrup and simmer 
5 minutes over the fire; add a glass of spiced vinegar from sweet 
pickles, and pour into a mould shaped like the pineapple ; it will 
retpiire to be very carefully turned out, and will then be very 
elegant. 

JOHN W. LEACH, Dealer in Produce and Vegetables, No. 24 East 
Town Street, Columbus, 0. 



SOUDER & BRIGHT, Dealers in Millinery Goods, Ribbons, Silks, 
Laces, &c.. No. 51 S. High Street, Columbus, O. 

Coo'k. Q§oo7z. 25 

Lemon Jelly. — Time, altogether, 1 hour ; peel of 4 lemons, 
juice of 6, 3 glasses of spiced vinegar, f lb. of loaf sugar, \\ oz of 
isinglass, pint of spring water ; steep the thin peel of 4 lemons in 
■| pint of boiling water until strongly flavored with the peel, or use 
extract of lemon ; put the sugar, pounded with the isinglass, into 
a stew-pan, and boil it slowly for about a quarter of an hour or 
20 minutes ; then add the strained lemon juice and the water from 
the peel, or 1 teaspoonful extract lemon ; add when cold ; let it 
just boil up; skim it well ; add the spiced vinegar, and strain it 
until quite clear. 

Orange Jelly. — Time, until it almost candies ; peel of 2 
Seville, 2 Havana oranges, and 2 lemons, juice of 3 of each, \ lb. 
of loaf sugar, \ pint of water, 2 oz. of isinglass ; grate the rinds 
of the Seville, Havana oranges, and lemons; squeeze the juice 
of 3 of each, strain it, and add the juice to the sugar and the 
water, and boil it until it almost candies, have ready a quart of 
isinglass jelly made with 2 oz. of isinglass; put to it the syrup, 
and boil it once up ; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle 
before it is put into the mould. 

Geletine. — One box of geletine, dissolved in a pint of luke- 
warm water ; grate the rind from 3 lemons, cut up and squeeze, 
putting all into the geletine ; pint of crushed sugar, 3 pints of 
boiling water ; stir 20 minutes ; then pour in glasses. 



PUDDINGS. 

[^From the New York Advocaie.'\ 

Formerly these were as essential as meat, and in some old fam- 
ilies the pudding had the precedence, and was served before the 
meat; paste puddings are boiled in a cloth, and many kinds of 
fruit pudding; thin puddings are best boiled in a tin mold, with 
a pipe running up tlirough the centre ; sauces for puddings are 
served by themselves, and are made in various ways; butter and 
sugar, stirred to a cream, flavored with vanilla or lemon, is a 
good sauce for fruit puddings and for batter puddings ; this is called 
cold sauce ; some beat up the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful 
of spiced vinegar and add to this sauce. Whenever a pudding 
is put to cook the water must boil and never be suffered to stop. 
The cloth should be dipped into hot water, floured well, and the 
pudding tied, allowing room to swell. Bread pudding swells 
more in boiling than batter, and this must be considered. Keep 
a kettle with water boiling while a pudding is in the pot, and, 

& J. H. KAUFFELD, Manufacturers of Carriages and Buggies, 
, No. 259 S. Fourth Street, Columbus, C>. 



J 



FRED. PHISTEREE, Dealer in Choice Family Groceries, Southeast 
Corner Town and Fourth Streets, Columbus, 0. 

26 TKe. :Ecltpse 

when the water wastes away, fill up with the hot water. To make 
a crust for a boiled fruit or meat pudding, peel, boil, and mash 
fine 8 mealy potatoes — I prefer sifting them ; add h teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a great spoonful of butter, and the white of 1 egg, 
beaten in 2 great spoonfuls of water; mix in flour enough to roll 
it out ; it is very tender and light ; I use it for apples, whortle- 
berries and cherries. 

Beefsteak Pudding. — Take 1^ lbs. of tender steak and cut 
it into strips, which heat, and lay on each a bit of bjtter rolled 
in pepper and parsley and a bit of chopped onion ; roll each piece 
up ; have 2 potatoes parboiled ; peel and cut them in slices, 
which hiy in with the meat and dust a little pepper over ; put 
these in the pudding paste, tie it in the pudding cloth and boil 
from 2^ to 3 hours ; some add a dozen oysters and a veal kidney, 
or blanched sweetbreads, or the meat of young chickens par- 
boiled, seasoned with bits of butter rolled in flour and mush- 
rooms, a little salt and nutmeg and no pepper, reserving the 
water the chickens were parboiled in for a gravy, which, with the 
giblets, stew a while and thicken with a teaspoonful of butter 
rolled in flour. 

Mrs. Hardy's Plum Pudding. — Put 1 dozen soft crackers to 
soak in 2 quarts of milk over night ; add in the morning another 
quart, 2 lbs. of raisins, 2 lbs. of currants, \ lb. of sugar, \ lb. of 
melted butter, 2 grated nutmegs and a teaspoonful of pounded 
cinnamon; stir in the fruit gradually and add 4 eggs; bake as 
long as plum cake ; when done these puddings fall. 

Indian Meal Pudding. — Take 1 pint of milk and | pint of 
water; mix and scald; on 6 tablespooufuls of Indian meal turn 
the hot milk and water gradually ; put in a bit of butter h the 
size of an egg, a little salt, 3 tablespooufuls of sugar, two of mo- 
lasses and 1 egg ; beat all well together and bake 2 hours. 

Family Rice Pudding. — Put into a deep pan ^ lb. of rice, 
washed and picked, 2 great spoonfuls of butter, 4 of sugar and 
2 quarts of milk, with a little pounded cinnamon ; bake in a slow 
oven ; good hot or cold. 

Apple Pudding. — Make a custard of 7 eggs to a quart of 
milk, omitting 4 whites; sweeten it and flavor with grated lemon 
peel ; grate 4 large apples into the custard ; beat the whites of 2 
of the eggs to a froth with the juice of ^ lemon and 2 oz. of 
sugar, and when the pudding is partly baked spread this over 
the top. 

FRAZEY, Dealer in Trimmings of Every Variety, No. 39 North 
, High Street, Columbus, 0. 



Z 



B 



D. BROWN & CO., Dealers in Hats, Caps, Furs, and Gents' Fur- 
, nishing Goods, No. 5 Neil House Block, Columbus, O. 



CooT^ ^ook. 27 

Apple Tapioca. — Peel apples enough to line the dish that the 
pudding is to be served in, and take out the cores; partially cook 
the apples so as not to break them ; put them into the dish, fill 
the holes Avhere the cores were with sugar, and scatter over a 
tumblerful of tapioca that has soaked in water a while ; fill up 
the dish with hot water and keep it where it will be hot, but 
neither boil nor simmer; take the white of 1 ^^g, the juice of 
part of a lemon, and -J tablespoonfuls of white sugar; beat them 
together and spread over the top of the pudding; while dinner is 
being eaten set the pudding in the oven to brown ; serve with 
sauce made thus — my invention : Take a teacup of sugar and ^ 
teacup of water; boil a few minutes and add a great spoonful of 
butter; stir well; mix a teaspoonful of butter with the same 
quantity of flour; stir this into the sauce, lifting it from the fiie 
while doing this ; then let it boil once and stir it on to the yolk 
of an egg well beaten ; flavor to suit with spiced vinegar from 
sweet pickles, orange-flower water, lemon rind, or bitter almonds ; 
this sauce is good for batter pudding. 

ToRTULLiAS. — This recipe was given me for a tea dish, but it 
makes a nice dessert dish, and is cooked during dinner; take \ 
pint of milk, ^ pint of sifted flour, 4 eggs, a little salt, and a 
spoonful of melted butter; beat the eggs and flour together, 
gradually turning on the milk and adding the salt and butter; 
butter 12 teacups, half fill them with this mixture and bake them 
20 minutes; serve instantly and eat with my sauce. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Wash a tumblerful of coarse tapioca and 
put it to soak in Ih pints of milk ; when soft take it from the 
fire and put it into a dish ; sitr in while warm a cupful of sugar 
and 2 great spoonfuls of butter beaten together, and the grated 
rind of ^ a lemon ; when cold add 4 beaten eggs, \ pint of milk, 
a wineglass of vinegar from spiced pickles and bake until putting 
in a spoon it comes out clean. 

MiROTON OF Apples. — Scald the apples and sift them with- 
out peeling and pile this high upon the dish in which they are to 
be served ; boil 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon peel and 6 or 8 
lumps of sugar in a teacupful of water; then add the yolks of 
3 eggs and the white of 1, |^ oz. of butter and 1 spoonful of flour ; 
mix the whole over the fire and stir it till quite smooth ; pour 
this upon the apples, whisk the whites of the other 2 eggs to a 
froth, put them over just as the miroton is to be put into the 
oven ; sift sugar over and bake in a moderate oven 10 or 15 
minutes. 



BLESCH & KLIE, Plumbers and Pipe Fitters, No. 191 South High 
Street, Columbus, O. 



J 



B. KIRK, Suroreon Dentist, No. 130J South High Street, (opposite 
, U. S, Hotel, Columbus, O. 



28 Tlie. ^Eclijjse 

Apple Charlotte. — Take an oval tin mold with a cover, oi* 
a small-sized, deep earthen pudding-dish, and rub the inside with 
butter ; from a stale loaf of bread cut a piece to fit the bottom of 
the mold ; dip it in melted butter and lay it in the dish ; line the 
sides with strips of bread \ of an inch thick ; dip these in melted 
butter before using; cut them even at the top of the dish, and 
rub oil over inside the white of 1 beaten egg; let this stand ; peel 
and core apples enough to fill the mold, which stew with sugar, 
cinnamon and a bit of butter ; when nearly done, fill the mold, 
cover witli bread and lay on a plate or cover, which press w'ith a 
weight and bake an hour; turn out and serve; it stands upright 
and is excellent. 

Croquettes of Rice. — Put in a stew-pan ^ lb. of rice, 1^ 
pints ot milk, ^ lb. of butter; stir until boiling, then put over a 
slow fire, cover, and let simmer slowly till quite tender ; mix well 
the yolks of 5 eggs, \ lb. of sugar, and a teaspoonful of extract 
of lemon, and add to the rice, stirring till the eggs thicken, but 
do not let them boil ; then lay the rice out on a dish, and, when 
cold, form into balls, or any desired shape, not larger than a 
medium-sized apple; beat 3 or 4 eggs in a basin and dip the cro- 
quettes in singly, then into a dish of bread crumbs or powdered 
crackers, and again into the eggs and crumbs ; and, lastly, put 
them into a wire basket and fry in very hot lard a nice, light yel- 
low color ; drain on a cloth and serve, neatly arranged on a nap- 
kin, with powdered sugar sifted over them. 

Marlborough Pudding. — This forms part of the Thanks- 
giving feast and is excellent. Take 1 quart of sifted apple, ^ lb. 
of dry sponge cake, 4 eggs, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 
\ pint of cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, sugar to suit 
and a little salt; mix all well together and bake in shallow plates 
lined with paste, laying over the tops citron cut in narrow strips. 

Bread Pudding. — Grate 1 pint of bread crumbs, 1 pint of 
sweet milk, 2 eggs well beaten, sweeten to the taste, and flavor 
Avith lemon ; ^ teaspoon of baking jwwder ; bake in hot oven 
until brown on top; then put a layer of jelly over it; have the 
whites of 2 or 3 eggs well beaten, with a little sugar mixed in to 
sweeten ; then spread over jelly and put in oven and bake until 
a light brown ; eat with cream. — Mrs. Rose, PkUadelphia. 

Cottage Pudding. — One egg, 1 cup of sugar, 1 of sweet 
milk, 1 teaspoonful of soda, 2 of cream of tartar, 1 pint of flour 
and a little salt; to be eaten with milk and sugar. 

^ LITCHTENBERG, Dealer in Watches, Clocks, Jewelry and Silver 
Plated Ware, No. 188 S. High Street, Columbus, O. 



G 



JOHN IT. RICKENBACHER, Merchant Tailor, and Dealer in Ready 
Made Clothing, No. 51 N. High Street, Columbus, O. 

Cool^ (^oo'k-. 29 

Molly Pleas^nt's Pudding. — A layer of bits of butter, 1 
of stewed sifted apple and 1 of sugar ; repeat until the dish is 
filled ; make a custard of 3 eggs to a pint of milk, flavored to 
suit, and pour over ; bake in a moderate oven for \ hour. 

Stewed Apple — (my way). — Peel and core ten apples, put 
them to stew with \ gill of water, cover them when soft, turn 
them into a dish ; sweeten with \ teacupful of sugar and add a 
great spoonful of butter, the grated rind of a lemon and a gill of 
thick cream beaten up well ; this is excellent at tea or dessert. 

Colley Pudding. — Three-quarters of a pound of stale bread 
grated, the same quantity of beef suet chopped very fine, 1 lb. 
of currants, \ nutmeg, a few cloves, 2 or 3 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls 
of crearc or milk ; mix these well together and make into a paste 
in the shape of eggs; fry them gently over a clear fire in \ lb. of 
butter ; let them be of a nice light brown color all over ; you 
may add blanched almonds and sweetmeats ; serve with sauce. 

Wafer Pudding. — One tablespoonful of flour, 2 oz. of but- 
ter, 2 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 lemon ; beat the butter to a cream ; 
sift the flour in gradually ; pare and finely mince the rind of 1 
lemon and add the egg yolks and whites well beaten to the milk 
and mix thoroughly; bake in well-buttered sauces for 20 min- 
utes and serve with sifted sugar ; care must be taken that the 
oven is not too hot. 

Black Currant Pudding. — Stem your fruit, but you need 
top them ; line the pudding basin with a thin light paste, strew 
sugar over it ; then put in your black currants, add more sugar 
and 1 cup of cider, or an apple or two sliced thin ; cover with a 
top crust, tie a cloth over it and boil for 2 hours ; never put 
water with fruit puddings; use lemon juice, grape juice or cider. 

English Plum Pudding. — Take 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. of cur- 
rants, 1 lb. of suet chopped fine, \ lb. of flour or bread finely 
crumbed, 3 oz. of sugar, 1^ oz. grated lemon peel, a blade of 
mace, ^ of a small nutmeg grated fine 1 teaspoon ful ginger, 6 
well-beaten eggs; work all well together, put into a cloth and tie 
it firmly, allowing room for the pudding to swell, and boil 2 
hours; when it comes from the fire dip it into cold water for 
an instant only ; this forms a coating next the cloth which pre- 
vents its breaking; serve with a rich sauce. — Mrs. Healy, Lon- 
don, England. 



D 



R. G. W. BUTLER, Physician and Surgeon, No. 217 East Town 
Street, Columbus, O. 



i'-^HARLES J. WOLLS' New York Fancy Dyeing and Cleaning 
V_7 Establishment, No. GO E. Town Street, Columbus, 0. 

30 TKe. Ecltpse. 

Queen Pudding. — Grate rind of a lemon; 6 eggs; mix 1 
quart of milk with yolks well beaten, then 1 pint of bread 
crumbs, nearly a small teacuD full of brown sugar, piece of but- 
ter the size of an esrg and 10 cents worth of raisins ; bake \ hour ; 
beat whites very stift", add 1 cup of white sugar; squeeze in the 
juice of a lemon ; when the pudding is done put a layer of soft 
jelly over it, then cover with the whites and put it back in the 
oven and bake it brown. — M. H. H., Chicago. 

Tapioca Pudding. — Put to 1 quart of warm milk 5 spoonfuls 
of tapioca ; when soft add 2 spoonfuls of drawn butter, 4 beaten 
eggs, reserving whites for the top ; sweeten to the taste. — Mrs. 
Matson Hill, Chicago. 

Apple Tapioca. — Soak 1 cup of tapioca in a large quart of 
warm water ; when soft add 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of sliced tart 
apples and a little salt ; bake slowly for 1 hour ; to be served 
with rich cream. — 3lrs. Matson Hill. 

Maccaroni Pudding. — Boil 8 oz. of maccaroni in a quart of 
milk till quite tender ; line your dish with a thick paste, put it 
in and add h pint of milk, with a little fresh butter ; cover with 
a paste and bake about 45 minutes. 

Snow Pudding. — Dissolve 3 tablespoonfuls of common starch 
in a little cold water, then add to it 1 pint of boiling water, and 
the wdiites of 3 eggs beaten to a froth ; put into an earthen pud- 
ding dish ; place in your steamer, and steam 10 minutes. — Mrs. 
M. G. Miller. 

Sauce for the above. — Beat the yolks of the 3 eggs, add 1 
cup of sugar, and 1 of milk ; a lump of butter, the size of a wal- 
nut ; and boil a few minutes. 

English Plum Pudding. — One lb. of grated bread crumbs, 1 
lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. suet, 1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. 
citron, 1 lb. candied orange peel, 1 lb. currants, well dried; put 
all together, and mix well the night before the pudding is to be 
boiled ; also put 2 tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves ; 
a teaspoonful of mace ; 1 tablespoon of salt ; 10 eggs, the yolks 
and whites beaten separately, with 3 pints of milk, the rind and 
juice of 1 lemon ; boil in 2 puddings, from 7 to 8 hours incessantly. 

Another Way. — One cup of suet or pork chopped fine, 1 cup 
syrup, 1 cup fruit, 1 cup milk, 2 cups flour, 2 spoonfuls of cream 
tartar, 1 spoonful of soda ; steam 3 hours ; serve with liquid sauce. 

OBERT DENT, Dealer in Whitman's Fine Candies, Fine Cakes, 
&c., No. 5 Gwynne Block, and No. 8 E. Town Street, Columbus. 



R 



M 



ES. N. E. NEWCOMBE, Fashionable Dress Making, No. 126 S. 
High Street, Columbus, 0. 



CooT^ ^ook. 31 

RoLY Poly Pudding. — One quart of flour in your pan, make 
a hole in the centre of it, sprinkle in a little salt, 2 teacups raw 
beef suet chopped very fine, water enough to mix it like pie crust ; 
roll thin on your bread board ; spread with preserves (tart pre- 
serves), then roll in a roll like rolled jelly cake ; put it in a bag; 
give it room to swell ; then put in a pot of boiling water, and boil 
for 2 hours, with the lid off; sauce of butter and sugar with, any 
kind of flavoring; nutmeg is very nice. — Mrs. Miller. 

German Puffs. — Six eggs, leaving out the whites of 3 for 
sauce ; 5 tablespoonfuls of flour, a little nutmeg, 1 tablespoonful 
of melted butter and 1 pint of milk; bake in cups half full; 
for sauce beat the whites of 3 eggs to a froth, add loaf sugar and 
the juice of 2 oranges 

Apple Float. — Take 1 pint of green or dried apple sauce ; 
make smooth by passing through a sieve or colander ; the whites 
of 3 eg'.'s, beaten to a stiff" froth ; sugar and flavor to suit taste ; 
beat well together; then send to table, and serve with rich cold 
cream. — Mn. 31. G. Miller, Columbus, 0. 

Sauce (to be poured over cake.) — Here is a delicious dessert : 
One quart of thick cream, whip to a stiff froth ; 1 oz. of gelatine, 
dissolved in 1 pint of water; when the milk is warm, stir in the 
cream, and sweeten to your taste. 

CocoANUT Pudding. — One grated cocoanut, 1 tablespoon of 
butter, 1 quart boiled milk, 2 slices stale bread, 3 eggs (whites 
only) ; sugar to your taste ; 1 nutmeg ; beat whites to a stiff froth, 
and stir into the milk and bread ; bake a light brown in slow oven, 
f of an hour ; to be made day before eaten. 

College Puddings. — Three-fourths of a lb. of stale bread, 
grated ; the same quantity of beef suet, chopped very fine ; 1 lb. 
of currants, ^ nutmeg, a few cloves, 2 or 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of 
cream or milk; mix these well together, and make into a paste in 
the shape of eggs ; fry them gently over a clear fire, in ^ lb. of 
butter ; let them be of a nice brown color all over ; you may add 
blanched almonds and sweetmeats ; serve them up with sauce. 

Syllabub Pudding. — Well beat 4 eggs ; add to them 6 oz. of 
pounded and sifted loaf sugar, a glass of spiced vinegar, and 
sufficient flour to make it a very stiff batter ; have a quart of 
milk, warm from the cow, poured upon it while you continue 
beating; and, Avhen it is well frothed, put it into a buttered dish, 
place it in a quick oven, and bake it ^ of an hour ; serve im- 
mediately. 

JOHN R. HAMER, the English Watchmaker, No. 142 South High 
Street, Columbus, O. 



LAZARUS' SQUARE-DEALING CLOTHING STORE, No. 139 S. 
High Street, Columbus, O. 

PIES. 

Pastry. — To make fine paste for pies, requires care and nicety. 
The flour must be well dried and sifted, and the butter and lard 
used perfectly sweet. It is useless to make crust of rancid butter 
or strong lard. Butter that is not good enough for the table is 
unfit to cook with. It is impossible to disguise the flavor by any 
seasoning, and the use of it ought never to be permitted. 

Pie Crust. — Two large cups of flour, -2- teacup of lard, i of 
butter, suflicient for 2 pies; mix well the flour, butter and lard 
together, before adding the water ; then add cold water to wet it. 

Eaised Crust for Meat Pies. — Boil water with a little fine 
lard, or fresh dripping, or butter, in the proportion of '2 oz. of fat 
to 1 pint of water ; while hot, mix this with as much flour as you 
will want, making the paste as stiff' as you can, and yet smooth, 
which it will become by kneading and beating with the rolling- 
pin ; when quite smooth, put into a cloth or under a pan until 
nearly cold ; this paste can be be molded into any desired form, 
and will retain its shape ; it may be rolled out and cut to line a 
tin mold ; this retains its form while baking, and the pie is served 
on a platter. 

Squash Pies. — These are very delicate ; choose the Winter 
Crook-neck squash ; cut it up, skin the outside, and take out the 
inside ; stew it like pumpkin ; sift it, and allow to each quart of 
the sifted squash pints of milk, h gill of molasses, a cup of white 
sugar, and a little salt ; if not sweet enough, add more sugar, and 
6 eggs beaten and strained ; bake, like pumpkin pie, in shallow 
pie plates lined with paste ; some recommend nutmeg and lemon 
for seasoning, but the mixture is un^deasant ; the flavor in sweets 
of the two combined is like turpentine. 

Very Light Paste. — Mix flour and water together; roll out 
the paste, and lay bits of butter upon it; beat up the white of an 
egg, and brush it all over the paste ; fold it up, and roll out ; then 
stick upon it more butter; s))rinkle over the egg; fold it over and 
roll out, and repeat this until the white of the egg is used up. 

For Tarts and Cheese Cakes. — Sift 5 lb. of flour ; mix the 
white of an egg with a gill of water, or enough to make it into 
a stiff' ])aste ; roll it; then lay the third part of }^ lb. of butter in 
bits upon it; flour, and roll it up tight; repeat this until the i lb. 
of butter is used. 

r^ H. WALKER & CO., Wholesale Dealers in Pianos and Organs, 
V^. No. 181 N. High Street, Columbus, 0. 



o 



SBOEN, KERSHAW & CO., Dealers in Carpets, Curtains and 
Dry Goods, No. 128 S. High Street, Columbus, 0. 



CooJx: (^ooTz. 33 

Puff Paste. — Allow a lb. of sweet-salted butter to 1 lb. of 
flour ; sift the flour, and make a hole in the center, in which put 
■| pint of cold water and 2 beaten eggs; knead it into a lump ot 
the consistency of butter, rolling it well with the right hand until 
it has a clear, smooth appearance ; flour the board ; press the 
paste down ; form the butter into a ball ; put it upon tlie paste, 
pressing it, and drawing up the edges as if making a dumpling; 
flour the board well and roll it out long — (this is called the first 
turn) ; fold the paste in three ; flour and roll again, which will be 
the second ; fold again in three, and put it in a cold place, upon 
the ice if convenient, covering it with a damp cloth until it is re- 
quired for use, when it will require four more turns. 

Common Paste. — To a pound and a half of flour allow ^ lb. 
of butter, ^ lb. of lard, h teaspoonful of salt, and 1 egg beaten 
in nearly a pint of water ; rub the lard into the flour ; pour in 
the wetting; beat it up with a knife; flour the board; roll out 
upon it the paste; spread ^ of the butter over it; flour thickly; 
roll it up t%ht ; stand it upright ; beat it down with the rollino-- 
pin, and roll slightly from you ; then spread another J of the 
butter, and flour and proceed as directed above; and when the 
last butter is rolled in, put the paste away in a dish ; if it freezes, 
it is better. There are numberless recipes for fancy pastes, but as 
I have not tried them, I cannot assert their value; all paste must 
be made in a cool place, and the less it is worked with the hand 
the better. 

Apple Pie. — The apples, when perfectly ripe, do not require 
to be cooked, but peeled, cut into quarters, and seasoned with 
pounded cinnamon mixed with the sugar; orange peel, cut into 
fine shreds, is a nice seasoning, as well as rose water, or orano-e- 
flower water ; but these last named are generally used to flavor 
stewed apple pies and tarts. 

Cranberry Pie. — There are various ways to make a cranberry 
pie ; some make it open like a custard or pumpkin pie ; this is 
good, but not so good as to cover like an apple pie ; do not stew 
the berries, as some do before baking, but slit each berry with a 
knife; this Avill preserve the freshness of the fruit, wdiich is quite 
an important thing ; a cupful of berries and an equal quantity of 
white sugar will make a medium sized pie ; those who like a sweet 
pie should have more sugar — also more berries, if desired ; bake 
as usual ; a little flour sifted over the fruit gives it a thicker con- 
sistence ; one thing should not be forgotten, add a small teacupful 
of water. 

DE. T. H. SMITH, DENTIST, 69| South High Street, between 
State and Broad, opposite State House, Columbus, Ohio. 
o 



"TTTM. G. DUNN & CO., Dealers in Drv Goods and Carpets, No. 25, 
VV 27 and 29 North High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 

34 The. Eclipse 

Lemon Pie — Take 1 lemon, 1 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, \ cup of 
milk or ci'eam, \ cup of water, \ soft cracker, and 2 teaspoonfuls 
of butter; put the sugar and lemon together ; separate the whites 
from the yolks of the eggs, and add the liquids to the yolks and 
the cracker ; line a plate with paste ; beat all well together, and, 
after baking put over the top the whites beaten to a froth, with 
sugar, and browned a few minutes. 

Another Lemon Pie, very nice. — Take a coffee-cujD of sugar 
and 1 of milk, the juice and grated rind of a lemon, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and 6 eggs ; bake in a plate lined with 
puff paste ; beat the butter and sugar together, adding the lemon 
juice and grated rind ; mix milk with tlie beaten eggs ; strain and 
pour them into the butter and sugar, and bake long enough for 
the eggs to be firm. 

Boston Apple Pie. — Line a deep pie-dish with paste, and fill 
it up with apples peeled and cut into quarters ; sweeten with sugar 
and molasses, and season with pounded cloves and allspice ; cover 
with a crust, and bake an hour and a half; when ready to eat, 
break in the top crust. 

Pot Apple Pie, a New Bedford Tea Dish. — Put into an ii-on 
pot a heaping quart bowl of apples peeled and quartered ; strew 
in some powdered cinnamon, or orange-peel pounded or cut fine ; 
strew over this a gill of sugar and 1 of molasses ; have ready 
some dough from such as has been raised for bread ; roll out a 
piece, and cut into pieces the size of a tumbler, \ inch thick ; 
lay these over the top of the apple, and cook from f of an hour 
to an hour over the fire. 

Another Way. — Prepare the apples as above, and when they 
begin to cook ; lay over the top pieces of stale bread or whole 
biscuits, and when the bread is steamed, it is ready. 

Cream Pie. — One cup of sugar, 1 egg, piece of butter size of 
an egg, 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in a cup of sweet milk ; add to 
this, when mixed together, 2 teaspoons cream tartar rubbed in 3 
cups of flour, and bake in 3 Jelly cake tins. The cream for the 
inside of the pie is made as follows: One and one-half cups of 
milk, when boiling add 7 teaspoons corn-starch wet with cold milk ; 
let it scald a moment, then add 2 well-beaten eggs ; sweeten to 
taste, and flavor with lemon or vanilla. S])lit the cakes when 
cold, spread them with the cream, and put together again like 
jelly cake. 

F. EDWARDS & CO., Manufacturers and Dealers in Boots and 
Shoes, 123 South High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



D 



BOYD & ERB, Dispensing Chemists, City Hall Drug Store, No. 25 
East State Sti'eet, Columbus, O. 

Cook oQoo'h,. 35 

Mince Pies. — There are numerous modes of making mince 
pies, and they are in high esteem; some use boiled tongue, some 
beef's heart well boiled, but the majority a piece of lean beef; 
venison is best : the rule is, \ chopped meat, \ boiled suet, and \ 
chopped apples, adding raisins, spice and seasoning to suit, sweet- 
ening partly with molasses, and thinning with good cider. 

Another Rule. — Here is a rule from a cousin whose mother's 
mince pies had great celebrity ; to 10 lbs. of beef and 6 lbs. of 
suet, after boiling, add an equal weight of raisins and currants, 1 
pint of molasses, the remainder of the sweetening in sugar, vine- 
gar from spiced pickles, and cider enough to moisten the meat ; 
spice to suit the taste, generally a little of all kinds ; pack the 
meat and seasoning in ajar, and, when ready to bake, add to the 
quantity you measure out an equal measure of chopped apples, 
and citron to suit. 

My Way. — For a piece of lean beef weighing 4 lbs. into a 
tightly covered vessel, with a gill of water, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and \ salt-spoonful of cayenne ; set the vessel in a stove-oven for 
3 hours, and leave the meat in the dish to cool ; when cold, chop 
it fine; to the same measure of meat, add as much and half as 
much more chopped apple ; moisten with the juice that came from 
the meat in cooking ; have the same measure of raisins as ap- 
ples, and half the quantity of currants ; stone the raisins, and 
put them to soften into a quart of cider ; let them simmer covered ; 
put a lb. of butter into a pint and a half of molasses ; let it boil 
15 minutes ; then put it into the meat and stir it well ; put in the 
raisins and cider, and season with a dozen pounded allspice, 2 
dozen cloves, 2 blades of mace, a great spoonful of pounded cin- 
namon, \ pint of vinegar from spiced sweet pickles; add sugar to 
suit, bake in covered pie dishes, and tuck in the edge to keep the 
juice from running out; do not make holes in the top crust of a 
pie ; the steam escapes, and the pie is made dry thereby. 

Green Grape Tart. — Take the graj^es when they are no 
larger than sweet pea seed, and clarify some sugar ; throw in the 
grapes, simmer them for about 5 minutes ; put a rim of rich crust 
around your dish ; lay in your fruit and syrup ; cover with top 
crust, and bake for 40 minutes ; serve with custard. 

Custard Pie. — One quart of sweet milk, 1 cup Avhite sugar, 
and 3 well-beaten eggs ; flavor to suit the taste ; line the pie-pans 
with crust ; place them in the stove ; then fill with the custard ; 
bake in a hot oven until light brown. 

J BAILEY, Tinner, No. 39 East Chapel Street., rear of City Hall 
. Building, Columbus, Ohio. 



D 



C. NEVILLE & CO., Photographers, Ko. 69 South High Street, 
opposite the State Capitol, Columbus, Ohio. 



36 TUe. EcliiDse 

Pumpkin Pies. — There are pumpkin pies and squash pies ; the 
former is the famous Thanksgiving regalement; for pumpkin pie 
made after the ancient mode, cinnamon and ginger were the only 
flavors, and most of the sweetening was molasses; but the richest 
of milk was used — often more than half pure thick cream — and 
the secret of their goodness lay in this ; for cream impacts to all 
kinds of cookery a flavor that is inimitable. Cut up and peel a 
sweet yellow pumpkin ; scrape out the inside, and put to stew with 
only the water that clings to it in washing; cover the pot until 
the pieces are soft; then stir these and keep up a slow cooking un- 
til the moisture has evapora+ed ; especial care is to be taken that 
the pumpkin shall not scorch ; when dry, it is taken out, and, 
when cold, sifted ; and now commences the mystery of pumpkin- 
pie making; to 2 quarts of the sifted pumpkin, add o quarts of 
milk — \ of it being cream — 12 eggs, a little salt, a pint of mo- 
lasses, \ teaspoonful of ginger, and pounded cinnamon sifted, 
enough to suit the taste; stir well; have pie-plates lined with 
paste, with an edge around the top ornamented to suit ; stir up 
from the bottom and fill the plates, and bake, and, when the pie 
rises up, it is done ; they must bake until they crack ; all pies with 
eggs require that the egg only set ; if it boils, it wheys. 

Cherry- Tart. — Have a very shallow round tin tart mould, not 
more than \\ inches deep ; cover it with a thin layer of paste ; 
then take some fine cherries, cut otf their stems with a pair of 
scissors, so as not to tear the fruit ; the beauty of a cherry tart 
consisting of the fruit being whole, when sent to the table ; pack 
in a single layer of the cherries, strew a good deal of sugar over 
them, and bake f of an hour in a gentle oven ; serve hot or cold. 

Lemon Pie. — Take the juice and rind of 1 lemon, 1 cup of 
sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, 1 teaspoonful of butter and sufficient 
milk to fill the plate; bake in a rich paste; beat the whites of 
the 3 eggs to a stitf froth, with 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered su- 
gar, spread over the pie when a little cool, replace in the oven, 
and bi-owu slightly ; this makes a most delicious pie. 

Wasiifngton Pie. — One cup of sugar, \ cup of butter, \ cup 
of sweet milk, 1^ cups of flour, 1 egg, \ teaspoonful of soda, 1 of 
cream tartar ; lemon flavor ; grease 2 round tins, and put in the 
above ; bake until done ; then put it on a dinner plate ; spread 
with nice apple sauce, or sauce of any kind ; then another layer 
of cake on top ; it is nice without sauce, but sauce improves it. 



T 



AYLOR & OHARRA, Undertakers, No. 98 South Third Street, be- 
tween State and Town, east side, Columbus, Ohio. 



~10LUMBUS CABINET CO., Manufacturers of all kinds of Furni- 
ture, Chairs, Mattresses, etc., 172 S. High St., Columbus, O. 



C 



CooJz. (^ooTl. 37 

French Oyster Pie. — Pick the oysters well, so that no shells 
may be found in them ; put them in a stew-pan with enough of 
the liquor to keep them from burning ; season with blades of 
mace, some grated nutmeg, a little lemon-peel, whole pepper and 
a little finely minced celery ; then dredge with flour slightly ; add 
a little fresh butter; let the oysters simmer over the fire, but not 
boil ; just before taking off of the fire, add the yolks of 3 eggs, 
well beaten, if the pie be small, if large, the yolks of 5 eggs; put 
your pie crust in your pan, fold a clean cloth or some cotton in the 
inside, then put your top crust on, and bake light brown, while 
the oysters are being prepared ; when the crust is done, remove 
from the oven ; take off the top crust, and remove the cloth or 
cotton, and pour in the oysters, then replace the top crust; send 
to the table hot. Plain Oyster Pie may be made the same way 
without the seasoning. — J/iss X. R., New York. 

Sweet Potato Pie. — Boil your potatoes with the skins on, un- 
til perfectly done ; then skin them and mash well, and rub through 
a colander ; season, and make like pumpkin pie ; Irish potatoes 
made the same way, make a good pie. — Maggie 31. Me., Philadel- 
phia, Pennsylvania. 

Peach Cobbler. — Take a bread-pan, line it with the pie crust, 
then fill it to the top with cut peaches ; sprinkle a good deal of 
sugar over it, a little flour and h nutmeg or a little cinnamon, and 
i cup of water ; then put on the top crust, and bake until well 
done ; serve with cream. Apple Cobbler can be made the same 
as peach, by adding a lump of butter the size of a walnut. 

Blackberry. — Line the pans with paste, then fill full with well 
picked berries; cover over the top with white sugar; then put on 
the top crust ; little water must be to the fruit to start it cooking ; 
then it is ready for baking. 

CAKES. 

Delicate. — One cup of butter (white), 2 cups of granulated 
sugar, 4 cups of flour, 1 of sweet milk, 1 teaspoonful of cream 
tartar in the flour, 1 teaspoonful of soda in a little of the milk 
and the whites of 8 eggs. The same for gold cake, using the 
yolks" instead of the whites. 

Washington. — Two egss, two cups of sugar, \ cup of butter, 
1 cup of milk, 3 cups of flour, \ teaspoonful of soda ; beat the 
butter and sugar together. 

HARRA & SIMS, Dealers in Boots and Shoes, No. 49 South High 
Street, opposite Capitol Square, Columbus, Ohio. 



O 



FREEMANS, STALEY & MOETON, Wholesale anrl Retail dealers 
in Dry Goods, 250 and 252 S. High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 

38 TTxe JEcUjJse 

Coconut. — Two and two-thirds cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 
1 cup of sweet milk, 4 cups of Hour, the whites of 6 eggs, 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream tar- 
tar in flour ; bake in thin cakes and spread frosting between like 
jelly cake ; the whites of 5 eggs will ice it ; grate coconut ou 
frosting. 

Spice. — Half a cup of brown sugar, ^ cup of butter, 1 cup of 
molasses, 2 cups of flour before sifted, H cups of water, 2 eggs, 
1 teaspoonful cinnamon, cloves, alspice, 1 small nutmeg, \ tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little boiling water. 

Marble. — Use the same for the dark part as the spice cake; 
white part: Three cups of sifted flour, h, cup of white sugar, 1 
cup of milk, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons of butter, 2 teaspoons of cream 
tarter and 1 of soda ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then 
add the milk and soda, the eggs well beaten, then cream tartar 
and flour; put it in layers, commencing with the brown. 

White. — The whites of 14 eggs well beaten, 1 lb. of white 
sugar, f lb. of butter, beaten to a cream, and the needful amount 
of flour ; double the quantity when a larger cake is desired ; 
bake very slowly until done ; flavor with anything you prefer. 

Sponge — Six eggs, f pint of white sugar ; beat yolks and 
sugar together till light ; having beaten the whites well stir them 
in, flavoring with ^ teaspoon of vanilla ; stir in slowly f pint of 
flour ; bake ^ hour when solid. Pap for same : Half pint of 
milk, \ pint of sugar, \ teaspoon vanilla and 4 tablespoonfuls of 
flour; put sugar into milk, let milk come to a boil, then stir in 
it the flour that has been moistened with water; put in layer as 
in jelly cake. — Mrs. J. K. Waltz, New Albany, Ind. 

Custard. — One cup of sugar not quite full, 3 eggs, 1^ cups of 
fllour, 1 teaspoon of baking powder and 1 tablespoonful of water ; 
mix altogether and bake in 2 jelly pans. Custard for the same: 
One cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 2 eggs well 
beaten, 1 pint of milk, pinch of salt; boil milk and add mixture 
when cooked ; add tablespoon of butter and 1 teaspoon of flavor- 
ing. — Mrs. Banister, Terra Haute, Ind. 

Plain. — Three eggs beat together, J cup of butler, li cups of 
brown sugar, 1 cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, flour enough to make a stiff batter, h paper of cinnamon 
and 1 lb. raisins ; bake in square pans. 



A 



LLEN SPENCER, Surgical and Mechanical Dentist, No. 574 
South High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



J. 



FITZ WATER, Dealer in Millinery Fancy Goods and Human Hair, 
No. 162 South High Street, Columbus, C'hio. 



Coo7^ ^ooJx:. 39 

Cream. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of butter, 1 cup of sweet 
milk, white of 6 eggs and the yolk of 1, 2 teaspoonfuls of 
baking powder and 2 cups of flour ; after baking spread with 
jelly; thin with icing; put in the oven and bake a light brown ; 
or use 1 cup of cream sweetened very s.veet with white sugar; 
flavor with vanilla and add 1 cup of dessicated coconut. 

Berry. — One pint of milk, 1 quart of flour, one quart of ber- 
ries, 1 cup of sugar, 2 eggs, and 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 

Rolled Jelly. — Oae cup of sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 
1^ cups of flour, f cup of milk, 1 egg, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder sifted flour ; bake in a large sheet ; when done spread on 
the jelly and cut the sheet into strips 3 or 4 inches wide and roll 
up ; if instead of jelly a sauce is used it may be eaten as cream 
pie. 

Queen of Hearts. — One pound of sifted sugar, 1 lb. of but- 
ter, 8 eggs, 1 lb. and 1 quart of flour, 2 oz. of currants and ^ 
nutmeg grated; cream the butter by mixing with the hands; 
mix it well with the sugar and spice ; then put in half the eggs 
and beat it 10 minutes; add the remainder of the eggs and beat 
it 10 minutes longer; stir in the flour lightly and the currants 
afterwards ; bake in hot oven ; when done remove from the pans 
as soon as possible. 

SrARCH. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup of corn starch, 1 cup of 
butter, 2 cups of flour, the whites of 7 eggs and, 1 cup of sweet 
milk ; beat the butter and sugar to a stift' cream ; mix the milk 
and starch together, then stir them with the butter and sugar ; ^ 
teaspoonful of cream tartar mixed with. the flour and J teaspoon- 
ful of soda; stir the whites of the eggs-^ — Mrs. Capt. Lee, Omaha. 

Queen Drops. — Take 4 oz. of fi©ur and 2 oz. of currants 
from the Queen of Hearts receipt; add 2 oz. of candied peel cut 
small ; work the same as the other receipt, and when ready put 
the measure into a biscuit funnel and lay them out in drops the 
size of a silver dollar on white pajier ; bake in a hot oven. 

Doughnuts. — Two cups of new miilk, f cup of butter, 2 cups 
of sugar, 2 eggs, 1 cup of warm milk, butter and sugar; stir into 
a batter, then add the rest ; when light knead soft and let rise 
again ; roll out f inch thick ; flavor with cinnamon ; let stand ^ 
hour to rise ; cut square and boil in hot lard ; when brown take 
them out and sprinkle with white sugar. 



W 



H. NOBLE, Horse Shoeing and General Blacksmithing. Shop 
near west end of State Street bridge, Columbus, 0. 



L 



H. WHITE'S Fancy Goods, Dress Trimmings, Millinery and 
Dress Making Establishment, 115 South High !St., Columbus, O. 



40 The EcUiDse 

Mountain. — Two cups of white sugar and 1 cup of butter; 
cream the butter and sugar; 1 cup of sweet milk, 3^ of flour, 3 
teas])oons of baking powder mixed with the flour and the whites 
of 8 eg'is ; bake as jelly cake ; spread the cakes with icing and 
place together while hot ; flavor to suit the taste. 

Cookies. — Needful amount of flour, 3 eggs, 1^ cups of sugar, 
a little sprinkle of of salt, almost one cup of butter and 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda in a tablespoonful of water; beat the sugar and 
butter together, then add eggs and flour and soda; bake in a 
very hot oven. — Mn. H. Stacy, Gillman, III. 

Rose. — Make dough like you would for delicate, then take ^ 
of the dough and put in another vessel ; take as much alum as 
can lay on the point of a case knife, and the same amount of 
cochineal ; pour a little boiling water on them and let them steep 
a short time; strain the fluid through a thin cloth into a vessel 
containing ^ of the dough and stir it well; then put a layer of 
the white and a la3'pr of the colored alternately in your pan, as 
you do in marble cake. — Mrs. William Smock, Indianapolis, Ind. 

Orange. — One cup of milk, 1 of melted butter, 3 of sugar, 
4-i of flour, () eggs, 1 teaspoonful of soda and 2 of cream tartar; 
mix butter and sugar together to a cream and add 1 egg without 
beating; bake in jelly pans Jelly for it: One cup of sugar, 2 
tablespoons of corn starch, 1 cup of boiling water and the juice 
of 2 and the rind of 1 orange boiled well together; spread be- 
tween the cakes when cold. — Miss Emma Hill. 

. Sally's Cookies. — Two cups of sugar, ^ of butter, ^ of lard, 
2 eggs, 1 teaspoon of soda, 2 of cream tartar and the needful 
amount of flour ; flavor to suit the taste and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Almond. — Beat the yolks and whiles of 12 eggs, to a froth, 
and pound to paste ^ lb. of sweet almonds and 1 oz. of bitter 
almonds, with a tablespoonful of rose or orange flower water; 
beat the almonds thoroughly up with the solid froth of the whites 
of the eggs, then add the yolks and beat in 1 lb. of flnely-sifted 
sugar and the urated rind of 2 lemons; next, f lb. of fine flour 
and gradually 1 lb. of clarified butter, warm, but not hot ; beat 
the batter veiy much till perfectly well mixed ; then pour into a 
buttered mould which will leave space for the cake to rise ; bake 
it for 2 Iiours ; but when half done put a buttered paper over the 
top to prevent the cake from being scorched. — F. C. B., Chicago. 

CENTRAL OHIO DENTAL ROOMS, F. H.Houghton, Proprietor, 
No. 1 Opera House, Columbus, Ohio. 



C 



o 



HIO MERCHANT TAILORING COMPANY, Merchant Tailors, 
dealers in Gents' Fine Fnrnishinsi; Goods, 163 S. Hieh St. 



Coolz (^ool'c. 41 

Macaroons. — Time, 15 to 20 minutes ; blanch 8 oz. of fine 
almonds and pound in a mortar to a smooth paste, with 2 tea- 
spoont'uls of rose or orange flower water ; whisk up the whites of 
8 eggs to a solid froth and add to it 1 lb. of finely-sifted sugar, 
then beat in by degrees the almond paste till thoroughly mixed f 
have re;idy confectioner's wafer paper and drop the mixture upon 
it in small rounds ; bake in a moderate oven till lightly colored. 

Chocolate. — One lb. of flonr, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of butter, 
8 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar from sweet pickles, a pinch of 
salt and chocolate glazing ; mix the above ingredients well to- 
gether with a wooden spoon, putting the butter (melted before 
the fire) in last ; spread a baking sheet with butter, put over it 
the mixture ^- inch thick and bake it; cut the cake into oblong 
pieces and glaze thickly with chocolate. 

Nut. — One cup of butter, 2 of sugar, 5 eggs, \ teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 of cream tartar, 1 pint 
of hickory-nut meats, 1 lb. of raisins and 1 of flour ; o table- 
spoonfuls of infallible yeast powder is better than the soda and 
cream tartar. 

Sugared Almonds. — Make a syrup of 1 pint of water to a 
pound of sutrar, and when boiling stir in blanched Jordan 
almonds for 10 minutes ; take them out and dry and reduce the 
syrup one half; then dip the almonds in again for a minute and 
with the thick syrup adhering to them dry them on an inverted 
sieve in a warm place and store in a tin box. 

Ornamental Frosting. — Whites of eggs, sugar and coloring; 
for this purpose, have syringes of different sizes, draw any one 
you may choose full of the icing and work it in any designs 
you may fancy ; wheels, Grecian borders or flowers look well, or 
borders of beading ; the cake must first be covered with a plain 
frosting, which may be white or colored pink, with extract of 
cochineal, blue with a little indigo, or brown with a little choco- 
late finely grated, green with a little spinach juice. 

Fruit Cake. — Three eggs beat well together, | cup of butter, 
\\ cups of brown sui,'ar, 1 cup of sweet milk, 1 cup of strong 
coffee prepared as for table, \\ teaspocnfids baking powder, flour 
enough to make a stiff" batter, 1 lb. of raisins, 1 lb. currants, 2 
oz. of orange prepared, same of lemon, spice to suit the taste and 
a sprinkle of mace and citron ; bake in slow oven until thor- 
oughly done. — 8. B., New Albany. 

JOHN R. COOK, Druggist, 124 South High Street, between Town 
and State Streets, Columbus, Ohio. 



s 



YMMES E. BROWNE, Hatter, No. 96 North High Street, betAveen 
Gay and Long, Columbus, Ohio. 



42 TJhe Eclipse 

Ice Cream. — Two cups of sugar, 1 cup butter, ?>\ fl(jur, 1 
sweet milk, whites of 8 ejrgs a,iid 2 tablespoonfuls baking powder. 
Icing for the above: Whites of o eggs beaten to a froth, mix 2 
caps of powdered sugar with water enough to make it moist; boil 
to a thick syrup and pour over the eggs; stir mixture until nearly 
cold, then flavor. — Mrs,. Banister. 

Pap for Cake. — Usual float thickened with flour, leir.on icing, 
juice of 1 lemon, tablespoonful of water, 1 cup or more of pow- 
dered sugar. 

Gold and Silver. — One cup of butter, 2 of sugar, 1 cup 
sweet milk, whites of 8 eggs, if your measuring cup be small, 9 
if large; 4 full cups of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder; 
beat till very light and flavor to suit the taste. Gold cake ex- 
actly the same, excepting the yolks instead of the whites; if a 
large cake is desired double the quantity. — Mrs. W. S. 

Ginger Snaps. — One cup of lard, 1 of sugar, 2 of molasses, 
1 teaspoon ful of soda dissolved in a cup of water, 3 teaspoonfuls 
of ginger ; mix very stiff. 

Sponge. — Twelve eggs beaten separately, then mixed and 
beaten till very light; add a heaping pint of white sugar, a tea- 
spoonful of vanilla; slowly stir in 1^ pints of flour ; bake over 
^ hour. 

Pound. — Twelve eggs beaten separately, 1 quart of white sugar 
beaten well with yolks, not quite 1 lb. of butter; beat well ; tea- 
spoonful of vanilla; slowly stir in a little over a quart of flour; 
bake about H hours. — Miss Enma Hill. 

Chocolate (excellent). — One good cup of butter, 2 cups of 
sugar, beat till thin, add the yolks of 5 eggs, next the whites of 
3 eggs well beaten, scant cup of milk ; finally stir in not quite 4 
cups of flour, containing 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, or ^ 
teaspoonful of soda and 1 of cream tartar. Frosting for the 
cake: The whites of 2 eggs, 1^ cups of powdered sugar, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of vanilla, 6 tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate; to be 
baked in a dripping pan in a thin loaf and frosted while hot; do 
not take out of pan until desired for consumption. 

Feather (cheap and good). — One tablespoon butter, 1 cup 
sugar, 1 egg, 1 cu|) milk, 1 teaspoon cream tartar, -j teaspoon 
soda, 2 cups Hour, nutmeg. 



B 



IDLEMAN & BRO., Blacksmith Shop, Horse Shoeing and Job- 
ing, Lazell Street, south of Town. 



T 



EAS AT IMPORTER'S PRICES. Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea 
Company, No. 87 Soutli High Street, Columbus, O. 



Cook cSook. 43 

Boston Cream. — Take 1 pint of water, \ lb. of butter, f lb. 
flour; put the butter in the water when boiling and stir in the 
flour, taking care that it is free from lumps; then pour into a 
dish to cool; when cool beat in 10 eggs, 1 at a time ; butter tin 
sheets and drop it on in small thick rounds; bake in a quick 
oven. Cream for the above: Take 1 quart of milk, \ lb. of 
flour; wet the flour with part of the milk and put the rest over 
the fire to boil ; then stir in the flour and allow it to boil 1 min- 
ute ; beat 4 eggs with h lb. of powdered sugar and stir in while 
hot; add salt and extract lemon to the taste ; when the cakes 
have become cold, open them at one side and put in them the 
cream. — Miss Longnecker, Columhis, Ohio. 

Fruit. — Take i cup of molasses, 6 cups of flour, 3 cups of 
sugar, 2 cups of butter, 1 cup of milk, 5 eggs, 2 nutmegs, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls cloves powdered, 2 teaspoonfuls ground alspice, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls ground cinnamon, about J oz. of mace, 1 wine-glass of 
vinegar of spiced pickles, 2 lbs. of currants, 2 lbs. of raisins, 1 
teaspoonful soda; bake carefully in a well-heated oven, 

Hard Times. — Take 1 cup of molasses and 1 cup of dried 
apples and simmer together; 1 cup of sugar, ^ cup of milk, 2^ 
cups of flour, 1 egg and 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Coffee. — This very much resembles black cake and is very 
nice indeed ; 2 cups of sugar, 1 of butter. 1 of cofl'ee, 1 table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, 1 of cloves, 1 of soda, 1 nutmeg, 1 lb. of 
stoned raisins ; you can use either sugar or molasses ; prepare the 
coffee as for the table, no eggs, 3i cups of flour ; let it remain in 
the pan in which it is baked to cool. — 3Irs. 31. G. 3IiUer, Colum- 
bus, Ohio. 

White Pound. — One pound of pulverized sugar, 1 lb. flour, 
f lb. of butter, with salt washed out, i leaspoouful of saleratus ; 
lemon or vanilla flavoring. — Mrs. Miller. 

Cookies, or Jumblesv — Two cups sugar, 1 cup butter, 4 eggs, 
flour enough to roll stiflT; 2 tablespoons lard substitute butter 
very nicely and tastes as well. 

Pork. — One lb. of pork chopped fine, ^ cup of boiling water 
poured over 3 cups of sugar, 2 of milk and 2 lbs. of raisins or 
currants. 

CocoANUT Drops. — One lb. of cocoanut, 1 lb sugar, 4 eggs 
and 4 tablespooufuls of flour. 

M. M'CORMICK, Dealer in Saddles and Harness, No. 117 East 
Town Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



w 



M 



AYNARD BROS., Wholesale and Retail Grocers, corner of Rich 
and Fourth Streets, Columbus, Ohio, 



44 TKe. JEJcUjpse 

Bread (excellent). — Two cups raised dough, 2 cups sugar, 1 
cup butter creamed, 3 eggs, 2 teaspoons yeast powder, 2 table- 
spoonfuls milk, ^ lb. currants, nutmegs, cloves and cinnamon to 
taste; stir until all are well mixed ; put in the beaten eggs, and, 
lastly, fruit well floured ; let rise 20 minutes in buttered pans. — 
Alice Shade, Columbus, Ohio. 

Fruit Cup. — One cup of sweet butter and 3 of nice sugar 
worked to a cream, 5 well-beaten eggs, the yolks and afterward 
the whites, ^ a nutmeg, ^ dozen cloves and a teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon ; pulverize a teaspoonful of soda, mix it in 5 
cups (»f sifted flour and stir the flour in the cake ; flour 1 lb. of 
washed currants and mix them in, and afterward 1 lb. of seeded 
raisins cut once and rubbed in flour; stir it well, and just before 
baking add a cup of sour cream ; do not beat it much after the 
cream is in, but thoroughly mix and bake immediately; it will 
take 1 hour to bake ; frost while a little warm ; it will keep fresh 
some time ; do not cut it the day it is baked ; this is an old but 
excellent receipt. 

Delicate Cup. — One cup of butter, 3 of loaf sugar pulver^ 
ized, the whites of 10 eggs, 5 cups of flour in which 2 teaspoon- 
fuls of cream of tartar have been mixed and sifted ; the flour 
must always be sifted before measuring and then again after the 
tartar is in; and, lastly, a cup of sweet cream, with a teaspoon- 
ful of soda dissolved in it and strained; this can be varied by 
mixing through it a few currants. 

Rich Soda. — One lb. of pulverized loaf-sugar mixed with f 
lb. of sweet butter, the beaten whites of fourteen eggs and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifted with 1 lb. of flour; and, 
lastly, a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in -o teacupful of sweet 
milk, and strained; bake immediately. 

DESSERTS. 

Charlotte Russe of Apples and Apricots. — Line a i)lain 
mould with Savoy biscuits dipped in clarified butter, exactly 
placed u])right, to join so that the contents of the Charlotte do 
not escape ; cut oflT the ends to make it stand firm ; fill the mould 
with fresh apple jelly, or marmalade, with a spoonful of apricot 
jam, or raspberry jelly in the centre ; cover the mould with but- 
tered biscuits closely as at the sides ; put a dish over it, and bake 
for half an hour in a quick oven ; then turn over out of the mould, 
and serve hot. 



S 



OMETHING NEW EVERY DAY at the Popular Boston 99 cent 
Store, fl. R. Kingman, Proprietor. 



M 



cCUNE, LONNIS & STONER, Wholesale and Retail Dealers in 
Hardware and Cutlery, 99 South High Street, Columbus, O. 



CooJz (^oo7z. 45 

Floating Island. — One quart of milk, put iu a small bucket, 
and set in a pot of warm water, to prevent the milk from scorch- 
ing ; let the milk come to a boil, then add 3 well-beaten eggs ; 
sweeten and flavor to taste; when the egtrs thicken a little, remove 
and let cool ; when ready for the table, beat the whites of 3 or 4 
eggs to a froth ; soften a little red jelly, and beat in with the 
froth ; put on top of the custard. 

Charlotte Russe. — Take 1 quart of rich milk and make a 
boiled custard, sweeten to the taste and flavor with vanilla or 
lemon ; boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a little water until dis.^olved, 
then stir the isinglass in the custard ; when the custard becomes 
cool, stir in 1 pint of whipped cream, and when it begins to stiffen 
pour it into your dish lined with s|X)uge cake ; the cream may be 
very cold or it will not foam when you beat it. — 3Irs. H. J. Haivhe. 

Orange Custard. — Pour over 6 oz. of sugar in a pan, the 
juice of 6 oranges, and let it simmer to a syrup ; then pour it out 
to cool ; beat up very well the yolks of 6 eggs, and mix with a 
pint of good cream ; set them over a slow fire, and stir continually 
till the custard thickens and begins to simmer; mix the syrup 
gradually, and stir a few minutes longer; then turn out, and stir 
till cold, when it can be transferred to the custard-dish or cups. 

Blancmange. — Time, 15 minutes ; 1 oz. of isinglass or gela- 
tine, 2 oz. of blanched or pounded almonds, 1 oz. of bitter ones, 
1^ pint of milk, 1 pint of cream, 1 lemon, a spoonful of rosewater, 
and 2 oz loaf sugar ; put into a delicately-clean stew-pan the 
isinglass, or ^'elatine, the sweet and bitter almonds, blanched or 
pounded, the new milk and cream, the lemon-juice, and the peel 
grated, with loaf sugar to taste ; set the stew-pan over a clear fire, 
and stir it till nearly cool before putting it into the mould;, this 
quantity will fill a quart mould, but if you wish to make it in a 
smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of milk and -^ 
of cream ; color the top ornament with cochineal, and let it get 
cold before you add the rest of the blancmange. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. — To i lb. of preserved pineapple 
pounded with sugar, add sugar and lemon juice to palate, 1 pint 
of creaui, and a little new milk; mix; freeze; 1 quart; or, take 
a pineapple weighing about h lb., cut it in pieces, bruise it in a 
mortar; add i lb. of sugar, the juice of 1 lemon ; rub them well 
together in the mortar ; pass through a hair sieve ; freeze ; a few 
slices of preserved pineapple may be added when frozen ; 1 quart. 

WHEELER & WILSON, Sewing Machines, No. 21 East State St., 
between High and Third, Columbus, Ohio. 



JA?»IES C. DUNN, Foreign and Domestic Dry Goods, No. 6 Neil 
House, opposite State House, Columbus, 0. 

46 Tlie EcltiDse. 

German Puffs — One pint of milk, 5 e^gs, 2 oz. butter, 8 
tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful corn starch ; bake in cups and serve with sauce or sweet- 
ened and flavored cream. 

Arrow Root Blancmange. — Infuse 2 oz. of arrow root in 
cold water for 20 minutes; then pour ofl* the water, aud blend 
the arrow- root with a tablespoonful of cream or orange-flower 
water ; boil a quart of new milk with 4 oz. of sugar, half a lemon- 
peel, a stick ot cinnamon, and a teaspoonful of ratafla or pud- 
ding flavor; pour the milk over the arrow root, stirring it continu- 
ally till cool ; then pour into a mould, and leave it to set. 

Lemon Ice Cream. — Take 1 pint of cream, \ teaspoonful ex- 
tract of lemon, or take the juice of 2 lemons, \ lb. sugar ; mix; 
freeze ; 1 quart. 

Strawberry Ice Cream. — Pick some strawberries (the scarlet 
are considered the best) into a basin or pan ; add sugar in powder, 
with a quantity of strawberry jam equal to the fruit, the juice oi 
a lemon or two, according to palate, a small quantity of new 
milk, and a pint of fresh cream ; mix, and add a little color ; 
freeze ; 1 quart ; or, when fresh strawberries cannot be procured, 
take 1 lb. of strawberry jam, the juice of 1 or 2 lemons, 1 pintot 
cream, and a little milk; color; freeze; 1 quart. 

Lemon Custard. — Beat the yolks of 8 eggs \ hour to froth, 
and strain them ; pour over them a pint of boiling water and the 
outer rind of 2 lemons, grated; make the juice of the 2 lemons 
into a syrup, with 3 oz. of sugar, and stir into the custard ; then 
set it over the fire, adding a glass and a half of spiced vinegar, 
and stir till it thickens; pour it out, and stir till cold ; then serve 
in cups. 

Italian Ice Cream. — Rasp 2 lemons on some sugar, compress 
the juice from the lemons, or use \ teaspoonful extract of lemon, 
to which add 1 pint of cream, \ lb. of sugar; freeze; 1 quart. 

Charlotte Russe, (excellent). — Take 1 quart of cream, beat 
to a froth, with a dozen eggs, well-beaten; sweeten and flavor; 
put \ box of geletine in the milk, sufficient to moisten it, and set 
it where it will warm gradually ; stir often; when dissolved, add 
the prepared cream ; line a dish with sponge cake, sliced, or lady 
fingers; pour the cream into it; set in a cool place. — J/r.s. Qohh, 
Chicago. 

C. URLIN'S PICTURE GALLERY, 216^ South High Street, 
between Rich and Friend, Columbus, Ohio. 



G 



("^ A. HALM, Dealer in Furniture, 183 North High Street, Central 
jr. Block, near Depot, Columbus, Ohio. 

Cool'c Q^ook. 47 

Ground Rice Blancmange. — Mix gradually 4 oz. of fine 
ground rice with a pint and a half of good new milk ; if a part 
of this be cream, it greatly improves the blancmange ; to this add 
3 oz. of powdered sugar, and a teaspoonful of ratafia or pudding- 
flavor ; stir it over the fire, continually beating it to prevent it 
running into lumps, and simmer it for 35 minutes ; then pour it 
into a mould dipped into cold water, and leave it in a cool place 
to set. 

Strawberry Blancmange. — One quart of ripe strawberries, 
2 oz. of isinglass, ^ lb. loaf sugar, juice of 1 lemon, 1^ pints of 
cream, 1 pint of milk ; crush a quart of strawberries with a silver 
or wooden spoon, and strew over them \ lb. of powdered sugar, 
let them stand for several hours, and then press them through a 
hair sieve reversed ; dissolve 2 oz. of isinglass in a pint of boiling 
milk and the remaining ^ lb. of sugar, then strain it through 
muslin, and stir it into the cream, and continue to stir it until 
nearly cold; then pour it gradually to the strawberries, whisking 
it quickly together ; add the lemon juice, a few drops at a time, 
to prevent its curdling, and then put it into an oiled mould in a 
cold place, to set for 12 or 14 hours. 

Raspberry or Currant Custard. — Make a rich syrup of a 
pint of raspberry or currant juice, poured over 8 oz. of loaf sugar ; 
skim it, and stir gradually into it over a very slow fire the well- 
beaten yolks of 6 eggs, and continue to stir for 5 or 6 minutes; 
then pour it out, and as it cools stir in by degrees \ pint of cream 
and a tablespoonful of lemon juice. 

Irish Moss. — Take a handful of the moss, soak an hour, then 
pick and wash through 3 or 4 waters; have ready a quart of 
boiling milk, sweeten and flavor to suit the taste ; put in the 
moss and let it cook, stirring most of the time while it is dissolv- 
ing ; when of the consistency of starch strain into mould and let 
cool; eat with cream and sugar. — Mrs. Captain W. H. Bisbee, 
Fort Bridger, Wyoming. 

Snow Balls. — Pare 5 large baking apples, taking out the 
cores with a scoop ; fill the holes with orange, quince or any other 
kind of marmalade ; then make a little hot paste and roll your 
apples in it; make your crust of equal thickness, put them in a 
pan and bake them in a moderate oven ; make icing as for cake 
and ice them over ; set them a good distance before the fire ; do 
not let them brown ; serve with sauce. — Mrs. James Taylor, Shef- 
field, England. 

COUGH MIXTURE.— F. W. SCHWARZ, Apothecary, corner of 
Fifth and Friend Sts., Columbus, O. 



L 



M. BAKER'S PHOTOGRAPH GALLERY, No. 228 and 232 S. 
High Street, Columbus, Oliio. 



48 TKe. Ecli-iDse, 

Snow Cream. — Make a rich custard, put it iu the bottom of 
your glass dish, then take the Avhites of 8 eggs, beat with rose 
water and a spoonful of treble refined sugar; beat it till it is a 
strong froth; put some milk and water into a broad stew-pan and 
when it boils take the froth off the eggs, lay it on the milk and 
water and let it boil once up; take it off carefully and lay it on 
your custard ; it is a pretty dish for supper. — J/rs. Taylor. 

Angles Food. — Slice some oranges, and lay in alternate layers, 
with grated cocoanut; sweeten with loaf sugar. — Mrs. Rahy, 
Tennessee. 

CANDIES. 

Almond Nagat. — Two lbs. of sweet almonds, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 
lb. of water. Blanch the almonds and cut them in slices, dry 
them at the mouth of a cool oven, and if slightly browned, the 
better; powder the sugar and put into a stew-pan with the water, 
place it on the fire to melt, stirring it with a spatula until it be- 
comes a fine brown, then mix in the almonds and let them be 
well covered with the sugar ; pour it out on a greased plate. Any 
other nut may be used in making Nagat. 

Butter Scotch. — Half pint of molasses, 2 ounces of butter, 
1 pound of sugar, boil altogether over a clear fire i when you 
think it is done, take a little out, drop it on the plate, if it hardens 
it is enough ; grease a tin and pour it out on youi- tin ; cut it in 
pieces before it is too hard. 

Taffy. — One quart of white sugar, 1 pint of water, -} pint of 
vinegar, butter the size of large walnut. Be careful not to stir 
while cooking if you want it white. — Eva Lattimer. 

Chocolate Caromels. — Three lbs. white sugar, \ lb. fresh 
butter, 1 teaspoon of pure cream tartar, 1 teaspoon of vanilla ; 
boil like ice cream candy ; only boil to a hard ball ; when it comes 
to a hard ball, put in your butter and chocolate, then pour on a 
marble slab and cut with a earomel cutter; always dissolve your 
butter and chocolate before putting it in the candy, just before 
taking oft' all your vanilla. — J. Dixon, Colimibus, 0. 

Maple Wax. — Two lbs. maple sugar, 1 lb, brown sugar, ^ 
gallon water, lemon oil ; boil as ice cream candy, only let it come 
to a hard ball ; when done, add a few drops of lemon oil, then 
pour into pans well greased with butter ; when cold, cut in squares 
with a knife. — J. Dixon. 



D 



R. GEO. SWITZER, Dentist, No. 113 South High Street, between 
State and Town, Columbus, Ohio. 



D 



F. EDWARDS & CO., ^Manufacturers and Dealers in Boots and 
Shoes, 123 South High Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



Cool^ Boo'h:. 49 

CocoANUT Cream. — Three lbs. white sugar, 1 grated cocoanut, 
\ gallon water, \ teaspoon of pure cream tartar ; boil until it 
comes to a soft ball, then set oft until cold, then put in the cocoa- 
nut, add a tew drops of lemon oil, then with a paddle rub the 
candy on the sides of the kettle until it is grained, then stir the 
cocoanut and candy thoroughly for 5 or 10 minutes, then with a 
spoon drop it in small cakes on a greased tin. — J. Divoii. 

Ice Cream Candy. --Fiv.e lbs. white sugar, ^ teaspoonful of 
pure cream tartar, 1 i^allon water, 1 tablespoon of vanilla ; to be 
boiled in a copper kettle ; to tell when it is done, take a stick and 
wet it, and put it in the candy and get a little of the candy on 
i! and then cool it in the water, and when it will crack and break 
in your hand, it is done ; then drop a lump of fresh butter in it, 
stir a moment, then pour on a marble slab well greased with but- 
ter or lard ; when cool enough to handle, put on an iron hook 
and flavor with vanilla; pull until white ; always keep a steamer 
on the kettle while cooking. — /. Dixon. 

Soft ball means, when it pulls soft; hard ball means, when it 
is hard and cracks. 

Chocolate Cream. — Three lbs. white sugar, h gallon water, 
i teaspoon of pure cream tartar, ^ lb chocolate, 6 oz. butter with 
the salt washed out ; put your sugar, water and cream tartar into 
a copper kettle, cook until it comes to a hard ball, then set ofi"; 
put your chocolate and butter into a small stirring pan and place 
on stove until the chocolate is thoroughly de:olved, then set it off; 
if your candy is cool, add a tablespoonful of vanilla, then com- 
mence stirring it with a paddle against the sides of the kettle un- 
til it is grained and creamy, then pour it in a greased pan, and 
then warm up your chocolate and pour over the cream ; when 
cold, cut in slices. — J. Dixon. 

Chocolate Cream Drops. — Fiur lbs. white sugar, ^gallon 
water, ^ teaspoon of pure cream tartar ; boil in cojiper kettle un- 
til it comes to a hard ball, then set it off until cold, then grain 
it with a paddle by rubbing the candy with the paddle on the side 
of the kettle ; keep stirring until it is creamy white and stiff, then 
take 6 oz. fresh butter, ^ lb. chocolate, and put in a small stirring 
pan, place on the fire and stir until the chocolate is thoroughly 
dissolved, then set off; if by this time the cream is hard enough, 
take and roll it up in little balls, and when you have done this, 
warm up the chocolate and with a fork dip the cream balls in it, 
and then place in a t'reasy tin until the chocolate becomes hard. — 
J. Dix'in. 

JOHN KIENZLE, Dealer in Boots and Shoes, No. 180 South Fourth 
Street, Columbus, Ohio. 
4 



MULCAHY & CREGAN, Importers and dealers in Drv Goods, 
Suits, Cloaks and Shawls, 100 and 102 South High St., Columbus. 

50 Tlie JEcUjDse 

Maccabonies. — One and one-half pounds almonds, or any- 
other kind of nuts, 18 whites of eggs, 3 lbs. white sugar, lemon 
oil ; put the almonds in a mortar and pound with a pestle until 
they are very fine, then add your sugar, then the eggs — three at a 
time — stir them well until all the eggs are used ; in making good 
maccaronies, it depends upon the stirring of your eygs whether 
your maccaronies aie good or not ; tlie more you stir your eggs, 
the better your maccaronies will be; when the eggs are all used, 
drop on brown paper, bake in quick oven. 

Caromelp, — Two cups of brown sugar, one cup of molasses, a 
piece of butter the size of an egg ; three tablespoonsful of flour ; 
boil these together for -o minutes, then add \ lb. of grated choco- 
late dissolved in one cup of sweet milk ; let it boil until it will 
harden when dropped into water, stirring constantly ; take it from 
the fire and add one teaspoonful of vanilla, pour it in buttered 
plates to cool ; just before it is hard, make it into small squares. — 
M. Hill, Chicago, 111. 

Maple Taffy. — Three lbs. of maple sugar, 1 lb. brown sugar, 
^ lb. butter, ^ gallon water, lemon oil ; boil as you do ice cream 
candy ; pour on marble slab ; when cool, put on hook, then flavor; 
put in the butter when done boiling. — J. Dixon. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Tomato Preserves. — Take the round yellow variety as soon 
as ripe, scald a,nd peel ; then to 7 lbs. of tomatoes add 7 lbs. of 
white sugar and let them stand over night ; take the tomatoes out 
of the sugar and boil the syrup, removing the scum ; put in the 
tomatoes and boil gently 15 or 20 minutes; remove the fruit 
again and boil until the syrup thickens; on cooling, put the fruit 
into the jars and pour the syrup over it, adding a few slices of 
lemon to each jar, and you will have something to suit the taste 
of the most fastidious. 

Tomato Casup. — Take ripe tomatoes and scald them just suf- 
ficient to allow you to take ott' the skin ; theii let them stand for 
a day, covered with salt; strain them thoroughly to repiove the 
seed ; then to every quart, 2 oz. of cloves, 2 of black pepper, 2 
nutmegs and a very little cayenne pepper, with a little salt; boil 
the liquor for ^ hour and then let it cool and settle; add a pint 
of the best cider vinegar, after which bottle it, corking and seal- 
ing it tightly ; keep it always in a cool place. 

J. WYLIE, Attorney at Law, No. 216* South High Street, be- 
tween Friend and Rich, Columbus, Oiiio. 



H 



JOHN M. SCHUSTEE, IMannfacturer of all kinds of Household 
U Wooden Ware. No. Ill and 113 South Fourth St., Columbus, 0. 

Coo'k, J3ook. 51 

Another Way. — Take 1 bushel of tomatoes and boil them 
until they are soft; squeeze them through a fine wire sieve and 
add -^ gallon of vinegar, \^ pints of salt, 2 oz. of cloves, ^ lb. of 
allspice, 2 oz. cayenne pepper, 3 teaspoonfuls of black pepper, 5 
heads of garlic, skinned and separated ; mix together and boil 
about 3 hours, or until reduced to about cue-half; then bottle, 
without straining. 

Arrowroot. — Not quite a tablespoonful of arrowroot powder 
is to be mixed with a little cold water, and when done a pint of 
boiling water added ; it should then be sweetened to taste and 
put on the fire to boil for 5 minutes, stirring well the whole time; 
if spiced vinegar is permitted it should be put to it after the 
arrowroot is poured into the basin ; the same quantity of arrow- 
root is a proper one when it is prepared with milk instead of 
"water. 

Oatmeal Gruel. — A dessertspoonful of meal must be mixed 
smoothly with 2 of cold water, a pint of boiling water poured on 
and the whole boiled on the fire for 10 minutes, stirring well for 
the time ; sugar or pepper and salt being added, as may be agree- 
able to or proper for the sick person. 

Ground Eice Milk. — A tablespoonful of ground rice, \^ 
pints of milk and ^ oz. of candied lemon peel ; mix the rice very 
smoothly with the milk, then add the lemon peel cut into very 
small pieces ; boil for ^ hour and strain as soon as off the fire ; 
this is an excellent, nutritious beverage for the sick when strict 
abstinence is not required, and for early convalescence. 

Simple Bread Panada. — Put a moderate quantity of grated 
or soft stale bread into enough boiling water to form a moderately 
thick pulp; cover it up and leave it to soak for an hour; then 
beat it up with 2 or 3 tablespoon fuls of milk and fine sugar to 
sweeten ; boil the whole for 10 minutes; this preparation is occa- 
sionally acceptable to the invalid, when milk dietary alone is re- 
jected. 

Toast Water. — This simple beverage is seldom well prepared; 
let the water with which it is made, have been boiled and become 
cold ; toa^t thoroughly of a fine deep brown, but not black, half 
a slice of stale quarter loaf; put it into a jug, and pour a quart 
of the water over it ; let it stand 2 hours, and decant the water 
from the bread ; a small piece of either orange or lemon-peel, 
added with the bread, is an improvement to toast water. 



A 



A. WILL, Dealer in China, Glass and Queensware, Lamp Fix- 
tures, &c., 188 South Fourth Street, Columbus, 0. 



D 



E. F. J A CO BY, Office and Eesidence, No. 167 East Rich Street, 
between Fourth and Fifth Sts., Columbus, 01)io. 



52 TUe, EcUpse 

Carrageen Moss. — One oz. of it, boiled in \\ pints of water, 
is sufficient to form a semi-transparent, moderately consistent, 
nearly tasteless jelly, which, when sweetened and acidulated, or 
when mixed with milk, forms an excellent diet for invalids, who 
require to have their strength supported ; the gelatine, now so 
commonly used, is a very palatable preparation, combined with 
either water or milk, and may be taken dissolved in tea, coffee or 
broth, without impairing the flavor of one or the other. 

Linseed Tea. — One oz. of linseed, not bruised, 2 drachms of 
liquorice root, bruised ; pour over 1 pint of boiling water ; place 
the jug — covered jugs with perforated spouts should always be 
used for drinks for sick people — near the Are for 3 or 4 hours, 
then strain off; when linseed tea is ordered to be continued, it 
should be made fresh every day. 

Milk and Soda Water. — Heat, nearly to boiling, a teacupful 
of milk; dissolve in it a teaspoonful of fine sugar, put it into a 
large tumbler, and pour over it § of a bottle of soda water; this 
is an excellent mode of taking milk when the stomach is charged 
with acid, and consequently feels oppressed by njilk alone. 

Rice and Gravy. — Let the rich gravy from a leg of roasted 
mutton, or sirloin of beef, stand till the fat forms a cake on tiie 
surface, remove it, and heat the gravy with as much well-boiled 
rice as will make it thick ; a teacupful of this is very strengthen- 
ing in the early convalescence of delicate children. 

A Substitute for Preserves. — A lady writer in an exchange 
communicates the following bit of information obtained where she 
" took tea last : " A dish of what I took to be preserves was 
passed to me, which, upon tasting, I was surprised to learn it con- 
tained no fruit. — The ease with which it was prepared, and the 
trifling cost of its materials, are not its chief recommendation, for 
unless my tasting ap])aratus deceived me, as it is not usually wont 
to do, it is emphatically a tip-top substitute for apple-sauce, ai)|)le- 
butter, tomato j)reserves and all that sort of thing. Its prepara- 
tion is as follows : IModerately boil a pint of molasses from 5 to 
20 minutes, according to its consistency, then add o egirs thorough- 
ly beaten, hastily stirring them in, and continue to boil a few min- 
utes longer, when season with a nutmeg or lemon. 

Beef Tea. — Take \ lb. of lean beef, 1 ?> pints of water, salt to 
taste; when it begins to boil, add a little mace; continue the boil- 
ing for a short time, when it will be ready. 



M 



ES. H. A. UTTiair.ATGH, BleacluM- and Pressor of Straw Work, 
No. 90 South Third Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



BECKWITH & SCHATZ, Office 32 East ToAvn St. Diseases of 
Women a specialty. Residence, 198 E. Town St., Columbus, O. 

CooIt. J3oo7z.. 53 

To Cook Vegetables. — A German professor says, that if one 
portion of a vegetable be boiled in pure distilled or rain water, 
and another in water in which a little salt has been added, a de- 
cided ditterence is perceptible in the tenderness of the two. Vejre- 
tables boiled in pure water are vastly inferior in flavor. This in- 
feriority may go so far, in the case of onions, that they are almost 
entirely destitute of either taste or odor ; though, when cooked in 
salt water, in addition to the pleasant salt taste, is a peculiar 
sweetness and a strong aroma. They also contain more soluble 
matter than when cooked in pure water. Water which contains 
one-twentieth of its weight in salt, is far better for cooking vege- 
tables than pure water, because the salt hinders the solution and 
evaporation of the soluble and flavoring principles of the vege- 
tables. 

Chicken Broth. — Take one-half of a carefully-dres.^ed chicken, 
and pour on it 1 quart of cold water; add a little silt and a tea- 
spoonful of rice ; boil very slowly for 2 hours in a tightly-covered 
vessel; skim occasionally, and season very little. 

An Antidote for Tobacco. — Gentian root coarsely ground, 
chewed well and the saliva swallowed, will cure the appetite for 
tobacco, if its use is persisted in for a few wrecks ; take as much 
of it after each meal, or ofteuer, as amounts to a common quid of 
"fine cut" or "cavendish." 



GEORGE BAUER, Proprietor of National Bakery, Confectionery 
and Candy Manufactory, S. W. Corner Rich and Fourth Sts. 



CG. ZIEGFELD & PON'S STAE BAKERY, at 346 East Friend 
. Street, and every Market Day at Stand No. 31, north of Rich St. 



JG. MAIER & Son, Dealers in Dry Goods and Notions, Trimmings, 
, Hosiery, Gloves, &c., 149 East Friend St., Columbus, 0. 



AMcADOW, Dealer in China, Glass and Queensware, Oil, Fluid 
. and Gasoline Lamps, &c.. No. 67 East Friend Street, Columbus. 



SEWERAGE & DRAINAGE.— If you want a good joh of Sewer, 
Paving or Guttering done, call on Wentz & Co., 153 E. Fulton St. 



CITIZENS' SAVINGS BANK, 40 North High Street, between Gay 
and Broad, Columbus, 0. 



yOHN SMITH, Boot and Shoe Maker, No. 1021 South Fourth Street. 
fj Repairing done to order on short notice. 



AN. HILL & CO., Clothing and Furnishing Goods House, No. 45 
. South High St., old Post Othce Arcade, Columbus, O. 



G 



ENERAL FIRE INSURANCE AGENCY, both Mutual and Stock 
Plan. S. K. Mann, 26 North High St., Columbus, O. 



GO to the Largest and Cheape.st Hat, Cap, Straw Goods and Milli- 
nery House in the city, J. S. Koch & Son, 174 S. High St. 



SARGENT & HA NT VAN, Dealers in Eutfer, Eggs and Produce, No. 
170 South Fourth Street, Columbus, Ohio. 



