ALBERT R. MANN LIBRARY 
Cornell University 

Gift of 
Thomas Bass 










tl ^pi^p 




From Home Bakings, by Edna Evans 
San Francisco, 1912. 






Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924085806994 



Cookery from Experience. 



PRACTICAL GUIDE FOR HOUSEKEEPERS IN 
THE PREPARATION 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 

CONTAINING 

MORE THAN ONE THOUSAND DOMESTIC RECEIPTS, MOSTLY 
TESTED BY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE; 



SUGGESTIONS FOR MEALS, LISTS OF MEATS AND VEGETABLES 
IN SEASON. Etc. 



BY 

MRS. SARA T. PAUL. 



'The turnpike road to people's hearts. I find 
Is through their mouths, or I mistake mankind.** 

— Peter Pindar. 



PHILADELPHIA : 

PORTER AND COATES. 






Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1375, by 

PORTER & COAXES, 
in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Introduction ......... 5 

Utensils to be used in the Kitchen 6 

Soups , . 7 

Fish 19 

Meats 29 

Remarks on Boasting, Boiling, See. . . , 29 

Beef 30 

Mutton 44 

Lamb ..(49 

Pork 52 

Veal 59 

Poultry and Game 71 

Shell Fish 91 

Salads 103 

Croquettes, Omelettes, Ac 107 

Sauces .••.....«.. 117 

Vegetables 125 

Bread, Cakes, &c 145 

Pastrf, Puddings, &e 167 

Cake 219 

Icings, &c 257 

Fruits for Winter Dessert 262 

Beverages for the Table ..... . 263 

(ill) 



iv CONTENTS. 

PABB 

Preserving and Canning Fruits 267 

Pickles 287 

Food por Invalids and Sick 297 

Miscellaneous Receipts 305 

List for the Inexperienced of the Proper Accompani- 
ments for Meats, &c., for Family Dinners . .311 

Breakfast Relishes 312 

Tea or Supper Relishes 313 

Weights and Measures 314 

Bill op Fare for each Season in the Year por a Family oi 

FIVE OR six Persons 315 

Spring 315 

Summer 316 

Autumn 316 

"Winter 317 

Bill op Fare for a Dinner for Fourteen Persons . 318 



INTRODUCTION. 



In presenting to my friends and the public, another addition 
to the already copious literature of Cooking, I would say that 
most of the Recipes given in this work are new to the general 
public ; they have never appeared in print before, and are the 
accumulated experience of nearly thirty years' attention to the 
subject. 

Every Recipe given has been carefully tested by either 
myself or my friends ; it has been my aim to give only those 
that are reliable and practical, and I have made the instructions 
so explicit that the most inexperienced housekeeper may under- 
take the preparation of her own dishes, or give intelligent 
instructions to her servants, with the certainty of attaining a 
happy result. 

To those friends whose valuable contributions have rendered 
the preparation of this work a pleasant summer pastime, I take 
this opportunity of returning my sincere thanks ; and if my 



vi Introduction: 

labors are the means of smoothing the rougu places in house- 
keeping to any of them, I shall feel amply repaid for the 
work. 

I have been particularly requested to designate my own 
Recipes, and those I have been in the habit of using constantly ; 
I have marked these with a star (*); but I would say that those 
that are n )t so marked, are, I consider, equally as good. 

S. T. P. 



COOKING UTENSILS NECESSARY IN A KITCHEN. 

Every kitchen should be provided with a fish-kettle, a soup- 
boiler, a ham or turkey boiler, dripping-pans of all sizes, from 
one large enough for a large turkey or young pig, to the little 
one for a pair of pigeons or other small birds ; three French 
metal or porcelain-lined saucepans, the largest one holding a 
quart, and the smallest half a pint ; an oval braising or stewing 
kettle lined with tin or porcelain, with a close-fittiqg lid, and 
large enough to hold a leg of mutton or a pair of fowls, and 
those of a smaller size at least six m number, all with close- 
fitting lids, for vegetables, stews and gravies ; a porcelain-lined 
preserving kettle, large enough to hold eight pounds of fruit 
with the sugar ; a smaller size for stewing cranberries, peaches, 
or other fruit; an oyster broiler; a beef-steak broiler, and one 
kept purposely for broiling fish ; a farina boiler, for custards, 
milk, &c. ; six pie-plates made of tin, or, what is better, of 
iron, and if you intend to have chowder, or any kind of pot-pie 
an old-fashioned iron pot, with close-fitting lid. 



COOKEEY FROM EXPERIENCE. 



SOUPS. 



* Oyster Soup. 

For one hundred oysters boil three pints of milk and set 
aside ; put the oysters over the fire half an hour before dinner, 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt, 
a small saltspoonful of pepper; simmer them until the oysters 
show their beards, then add the boiled milk ; bring it to a boil ; 
have ready four hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, three crackers 
rolled, and one head of celery chopped small; put these into 
the tureen ; when the soup boils, pour it over them and serve. 

* Oyster Soup, Ho. 2. 

Strain the juice from one hundred oysters, put it over the 
fire with half a teaspoonful of salt; when the scum rises, strain 
the juice through a clean cloth or fine sieve ; boil three pints 
of milk, add the oysters and juice, and six ounces of butter 
rubbed to a paste with a heaping tablespoonful of flour ; bring 
all to a boil, season with pepper and, if needed, a little mora 
salt^ and s;rve. 

0) 



8 CO OKEB T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Clam Soup. 

Wash the clam shells very clean, put them in a dripping-pan 
and set them in a hot oven for five minutes, or until the sheila 
open ; take them from their shells, saving all the juice ; if the 
clams are large, chop them ; if the little soft-shell clams, they 
must be left whole. Boil three pints of milk, add the juice, a 
blade of mace, a little black pepper, a hard-boiled egg chopped 
fine, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, two rolled crackers, and 
a quarter of a pound of butter mixed with a teaspoonful of 
flour ; put in the clams, give all a boil up and serve. This is 
for fifty large or one hundjed small clams. 

* Mock Turtle Soup. 

Procure a fine large calf's head and a set of feet, cleanse the 
head thoroughly, tie the brains up in a clean cloth, and piit all 
together in a soup-kettle, with five quarts of cold water and a 
tablespoonful of salt; bring to aboil and skim well, then set 
aside to simmer slowly for three hours ; the brains will be done 
in an hour and must be taken out and set aside; when you can 
twist out the bones, remove the kettle from the fire and strain 
through a cullender; put the broth back into the soup-pot; 
take out all the bones from the meat,' cut it in small pieces, 
reserve a cup full of it and set aside; season the remainder with 
half a teaspoonful of black pepper, a teaspoonful of sweet mar- 
joram, the same of summer savory, an onion chopped, a toa- 
spoonful of powdered cloves and two blades of mace; stir all 
well together and put it into the broth; add a bunch of parsley 
and thyme, cover closely and simmer for an hour and a half; 
then strain and set away until next day. Next morning pre- 
pare force-meat balls as follows : Chop very fine a pound of lean, 
uncooked veal and a quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet, stir 
them together, add a small teacup of the brains, and the same 
of fine bread crumbs, season with half a teaspoon of salt, a salt- 
spoon of black pepper, half a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, a 
piece of onion the size of half a nutmeg, chopped very fine, and 
» t«(aspoonful of chopped pars iy ; mix all well together j beat 



SOUPS. 9 

lip two eggs, stir them in ; flour your hands, and make into 
little balls half the size of a walnut, and brown them in butter 
and lard or sweet dripping to float and cover them ; drain them 
on a sieve or clean cloth, and keep them hot until ready to turn 
out the soup. Take all the fat from the top of the soup, put it 
over the fire and let it come to a boil, put in the cup of meat 
you reserved, thicken with a tablespoonful of browned flour 
mixed in cold water ; boil five minutes longer, then add half a 
tumbler of good Sherry or Madeira wine ; put the force-meat 
balls in the tureen with two slices of lemon, pour the soup over 
and serve. 

* A plain Calf' s-head Soup. 

After the head is thoroughly cleaned, put it over the fire 
with four quarts of cold water, season with cayenne and black 
pepper, add ten whole cloves, the same of allspice, a small piece 
of onion, a bunch of parsley and one of sweet basil ; bring it to 
a boil, skim well and set aside to simmer four hours ; then strain 
it through a cullender, return it to. the soup-kettle, thicken it 
with two teaspoonsful of sea-moss farina mixed in cold water to 
a paste, give it a boil up, add a tablespoonful of browning, a 
wine-glass of walnut catsup ; cut a lemon in slices and lay them 
in the tureen, pour over them a teacup of Port or Sherry wine, 
pour the soup over them and serve. 

* Calf' s-head Soup. 
After thoroughly cleansing the head, put it in a soup-kettle 
with a knuckle of veal which has been cut into several pieces, 
season with pepper and salt, four .whole cloves and a blade of 
mace ; pour over all four quarts of cold water, bring to a boil, 
skim well and set aside to simmer, closely covered, for four or 
five hours; boil two eggs fifteen minutes, lay them in cold water 
for five minutes, then chop them and put them in the tureen in 
which you will serve the soup, with four or five slices of lemon ; 
strain the soup, add a tablespoonful of browning and two glasses 
of Madeira or Sherry wine, and serve. 

These three soups, all prepared from calves' heads, are entirelj 
different frour e<»ch other. 



10 COOKERY FROM EXPEBIENCH. 

* Gumbo Soup. 

Two pounds of beef cut small. 
Half a peck of okras, washed and cut in slices. 
Three onions cut in rings. 
Two carrots grated. 
Six tomatoes cut small. 

Five cloves; salt and pepper; a bunch of chopped parsley. 
Five quarts of cold water. 

Bring to a boil, skim off all the fat and set aside to simmel 
slowly four hours, keeping it closely covered. 

* Gumbo Soup, No. 2. 

Two pounds of the neck of mutton. 

A quarter of a peck of tomatoes, peeled and cut small. 

A quart of okras in slices. 

A few Lima beans. 

Two ears of sugar corn (the corn cut off). 

A small onion. 

A bunch of parsley and thyme, and pepper and salt to taste. 

Four quarts of cold water. 

Proceed as above. 

* Gumbo Soup, No. 3. 

Procure a knuckle of veal weighing five or six pounds, cut it 
in small pieces and brown it in a soup-kettle, with two ounces 
of butter; when quite brown, add to it half a pound of lean 
ham, cut in small pieces ; two large onions with three cloves 
stuck in each ; two small red peppers, two grated carrots, two 
turnips cut in small pieces, a head of celery ditto, and salt to 
your taste. Pour over them a pint of cold water, let all come to 
a boil ; stir them frequently when the vegetables begin to 
brown ; add a quart of okras cut in slices, eight tomatoes peeled 
and sliced, and a gallon of cold water ; bring to a boil, skim it 
well and set aside to simmer four hours, and serve. 



SOUPS. 11 

*Beef Soup. 

Six pounds of shin of oeef, cut into pieces; put it ic a pan 
with three ounces of butter, brown over a good fire ; take out 
the meat and put it in a soup-kettle, with four onions, four cur- 
rots and two heads of celery, all chopped fine ; add a bunch of 
thyme, one of sweet marjoram, a few whole allspice, four whole 
cloves, two blades of mace, and salt and pepper to your taste ; 
pour on all four quarts of cold water, bring to a boil, skim well ; 
then set aside to simmer, closely covered, six or eight hours ; 
then strain oflF and set away. Next day take all the fat from 
the top, and bring it to a boil half an hour before dinner ; add 
to it a tablespoonful of browning and thicken with two teaspoons 
of sea-moss farina; boil three minutes and serve. 

* Amber Soup. 

Put half a pound of ham at the bottom of a soup-kettle ; on 
this put three pounds of lean beef and two of veal ; cut in thin 
slices two large carrots, two heads of celery, two turnips and 
two onions ; season with pepper (whole) and salt, a blade of 
mace and two cloves ; cover the vessel closely and set it over a 
sharp fire ; when the meat begins to stick turn it over ; con- 
tinue this until it begins to brown, then pour over a gallon of 
boiling water and set aside to simmer four hours ; skim it fre- 
quently and keep it closely covered ; when done, strain it 
through a sieve or fine cloth and set away until next day; take 
all the fat from the top and put it over the fire an hour before 
dinner ; when it boils stir into it a quarter of a box of gelatine 
that has soaked for an hour in a teacup of cold water ; give a 
boil up and serve. 

* Brown Soup of Chickens. 

Cut up a pair of fowls as for stewing ; season with pepper 
and salt and dust with flour; melt in a pan three ounces of 
butter, lay the chickens in and fry them brown ; turn all into 
a soup-kettle, pour over them four quarts of cold water, add two 
carrots, two headn of celery, one onion and three large tomatoes, 
all cut fine (if in winter, half a can of tomatoes), three cloves 



12 COOKEET FROM EXI-SRIENCE. 

and a blade of mace ; bring to a boil, skim well, set aside to 
simmur three hours ; add a tablespoonful of browning, strain 
through a cullender and serve. 

* Vermicelli Soup. 

Procure a shin of beef, cut in three or four pieces, wash it 
very clean and put it in a soup-kettle, with any trimmings you 
may have of meat or poultry, such as necks, gizzards, livers or 
feet ; put on them a gallon of cold water, season with pepper 
and salt ; ' add a large carrot grated, a head of celery, two tur- 
nips and two onions, a bunch of pot-herbs and half a can of 
tomatoes or three or four ripe tomatoes cut up ; bring to a boil, 
skim well and then set aside to simmer for five hours, or more, 
if the meat is not boiled from the bones ; then strain off and set 
away until next day ; then take off all the fat and set it over 
the fi.re an hour before dinner ; when it boils, add a quarter of a 
pound of either maccaroni or vermicelli, broken short j boil 
fifteen minutes after this is in it, and serve. 

* Mutton Soup. 

Pour pounds of neck of mutton ; put it in a soup-kettle with 
three quarts of cold water, two turnips, four tomatoes and a large 
onion, salt and pepper, and two tablespoonsful of pearl barley 5 
bring to a boil, skim off the fat and scum, and set aside to sim- 
mer slowly for three hoHirs. Keep the vessel closely covered. 

* Knuckle of Veal Soup. 

Cut half a pound of bacon into thin slices, and lay them on 
the bottom of a soup Jiettle ; on these lay a knuckle of veal 
weighing four or five pounds, having first chopped the bone in 
three or four places; add two carrots, two turnips, and a head 
of celery, all cut in pieces; two large onions with three cloves 
stuck in each, a dozen black pepper corns, and a bunch each of 
thyme, parsley and sweet marjoram ; pour over them four quarts 
of cold water, let it come to a boil, skim it, and set aside to 
simmer slowly, closely covered, for four hours; when done, 
strain through a cullender, thicken with a couple of table- 



SOUPS. 13 

Bpoonsful of browned flour mixed in cold (rater, add a table- 
spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and' a wine glass of tomato 
catsup, boil up and eerve. 

* Julienne Soup, 

Procure five or six pounds of lean beef, season with salt only, 
and put it in a soup-kettle with five quarts of cold water, bring 
it to a boil, then set aside and simmer, closely covered for six 
or eight hours, or until the meat falls from the bones; strain it 
and set it aside until next day, when carefully remove all the 
fat from the top, add a pint of cold water, one carrot cut in 
small pieces, one turnip ditto, one potato sliced thin, two onions 
in rings, five tomatoes peeled and cut up, and half a teacup of 
barley ; bring all to a hard boil, then simmer slowly, closely covered 
for three hours, season to the taste with pepper and salt, or leave 
out the barley and add one root of celery cut into very small 
pieces. 

* Pepper Pot. 

* 
Wash and scrape six or seven pounds of tripe, put it in a large 

kettle or pot, with a gallon of cold water, and boil it slowly for 
six or eight hours, or until a straw will run through it. In 
another vessel simmer slowly a knuckle of veal, with water to 
cover (put on it cold), until the meat separates from the bones ; 
then strain and set aside the broth. When the tripe is done, take 
it out of the water and put it away until next day ; pour the water 
it was boiled in, into a stone pot or pan, and mix with it the 
broth the veal was cooked in, and set aside until next day; then 
take all the fat from the top of the broth, and put it over the 
fire an hour before dinner; cut the tripe into pieces half an inch 
square and put it in the broth. Peel, wash and cut into dioe 
the same size as the tripe three or four potatoes, and add them 
to the tripe, with a table-spoonful of sweet marjoram rubbed fine, 
a bunch of parsley and thyme, and pepper and salt to your taste; 
boil all together for fifteen or twenty minutes, have ready dump- 
lings made with prepared flour, mixed with water and a little 
salt and a tablespoonful of lard ; roll them out and cut the same 



14 CO OKEB T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

size as the tripe, dust them well with flour to prevent their stick- 
ing together, and put them in ten minutes before the soup is 
done boiling. 

* Mutton Broth. 

A shoulder of mutton weighing four or five pounds, have the 
joints cracked, but do not cut it up ; put it in a soup-kettle with 
two tablespoonsful of rice, and three potatoes, peeled, washed 
and out up; season with pepper and saltj^and cover with cold 
water; boil slowly for three hours, or until the meat is tender, 
but not broken. Take out the meat, but do not strain the broth. 
Serve that and the meat afterwards with drawn butter poured 
over it. Skim well when boiling. 

Ox-tail Soup. 

Three tails make a tureen of soup. Have your butcher divide 
them at the joints, and let them soak in warm water whilst the 
vegetables are being prepared. Put them into a frying-pan with 
a little butter, a carrot cut in two or three pieces, a turnip the 
same, and three onions sliced; turn them about over a sharp fire 
until the meat is brown, throw in a teaspoonful of flour to ab- 
sorb the butter, and turn all into a soup-kettle, with a head of 
celery cut in two or three pieces, a bunch of thyme and another 
of parsley, eight whole cloves, half a teaspoonful of allspice, the 
same of whole black pepper, and four quarts of cold water. 
Bring it to a boil, then set aside to simmer for three or four 
hours, skim it well and keep the vessel closely covered. When 
the meat will separate from the bones take it out of the soup, 
and cut it in small pieces, leaving out all the bones ; strain the 
soup through a cullender, return the meat and soup to the kettle, 
make a paste of two tablespoonfuls of browned flour and a little 
cold water, stir it in the soup ; boil up for five minutes, and add 
a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, a glass of wine, and salt to 
y Dur tastCj and serve. 

* Black Bean Soup. 

Put a quart of black Mexican beans in a soup-kettle, with 
four quarts of cold water, and any bones of cold roast beef ot 



SOUPS. 15 

niatton or poultry ; bring to a boil, skim well, and simmer 
slowly for four or five hours, stirring frequently ; take out the 
bones, and strain through a cullender ; press the beans through 
with the back of a wooden spoon ; this takes out the skins which 
are very tough ; put the soup back in the kettle, season with 
pepper and salt ; give a boil up, add a teacup of wine, and 
serve. Very fine. 

*Eabbit Soup. 

Cut off the legs and shoulders, divide the body down the 
back, and then across, wash it in lukewarm water and wipe it 
dry ; then put it in a frying-pan with a little butter or sweet 
drippings ; fry it a nice brown ; put it in your soup-kettle with 
a carrot grated, one onion sliced, four cloves, two blades of mace, 
two dozen peppercorns, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two thin 
slices of bacon, and three quarts of cold water. Bring all to a 
boil, then set aside to simmer for three hours, skim it well, and 
when the meat is tender take it out, cut ofi^ that from the back 
and upper part of the legs, cut it in small pieces and set it 
aside : take the rest of the meat from the bones and pound it in 
a mortar with an ounce of butter and two tablespoonfuls of 
flour moistened with a little soup ; when well mixed stir it in 
the soup, and let it simmer fifteen minutes longer; then season 
with salt to your taste, strain through a sieve, put in the riieat 
you cut in pieces and set aside, add a tablespoonful of tomato or 
mushroom catsup and a glass of wine, and serve. 

* Tomato Soup. 
Wash a quarter of a peck of tomatoes, cut them in pieces and 
chop them fine in a wooden bowl ; put them in your soup-keitle 
with a beef or mutton bone, or two pounds of lean meat of 
either kind, pepper and salt, and three quarts &f cold water; 
bring to a boil, then simmer slowly for three hours ; take out 
the bone or meat, and strain the broth through a fine sieve, 
pressing on the tomatoes lightly ; return the liquor to the soup- 
kettle, mix a tablespoonful of flour with a little cold water, stir 
it in the soup, boil five minutes, and serve. 



16 CO OKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Soup Kaig^e. 

Peel and cut in small pieces four white potatoes, three turnips, 
three onions, and one carrot ; put them in a stew-pan with a 
piece of butter the size of an egg, a quarter of a pound of lean 
ham, and a bunch of parsley ; put them over a hot fire for ten 
minutes, stirring them often ; then add two quarts of hot water, 
pepper and saltj boil until the vegetables will mash, theu pass 
it through a cullender, pressing the vegetables through into the 
broth J put it into the stew-pan again ; if not thick enough add 
a tablespoonful of flour, give a boil up and serve with sippets of 
toast or fried bread. 

* Green Pea Soup. 

Shell half a peck of fresh green peas, wash the pods and put 
them in a soup-kettle with plenty of cold water ; boil until very 
tender, then drain ofi' the water, throw away the pods, and put 
the peas on to boil in the water you strained off ; boil them 
three-quarters of an hour, or until they will mash with the back 
of a spoon ; strain them through a cullender, throw them back 
into the kettle, reserving a teacupful, mash the remainder very 
fine with a potato masher, adding gradually the water they were 
boiled in, which should not be much more than a pint ; add to 
this three pints of rich new milk, and the cup of peas you re- 
served ; let it come to a boil, then stir in a quarter of a pound 
of butter in which you have rubbed two tablespoons of flour, 
add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, season with pepper and 
salt, give a boil up, and serve. 

* Split Pea Soup. 

Pick over and wash a quart of split peas, put them in a soup- 
kettle with three quarts of cold water, and the bones and trim- 
mings of cold roast beef or mutton, two heads of celery washed 
and cut up, two onions peeled and sliced, and a bunch of parsley 
and thyme, with pepper and salt to your taste ; bring all to a 
boil, and set aside to simmer slowly for four hours, stirring very 
often to prevent the peas from sticking and burning; when done 
take out the bones and the parsley and thyme, which should be 



so VPS. 17 

tied in a little bunch before they are put in the soup, and press 
the soup through a cullender with the back of a wooden spoon ; 
puLover the fire i-gain, give a boil up, and serve with sippets of 
fried bread or toajt. 

This s )up may be made with the little white winter beans in- 
stead of the split peas, and is almost as good. 

* Split Pea Soup, No. 2. 

Put m a souf ■ 'ettle the bones from cold roast beef or mutton, 
with two quarto of cold water, a carrot cut in small pieces, an 
onion, and a he* 1 of celery cut small, with pepper and salt to 
your tast« ; ccv r closely and simmer for three hours. Put a 
pint of spli'> pf s in a stew-pan, with three pints of cold water, 
and boil slojfljr for two hours, stirring them frequently to prevent 
their burning;. When the soup is done, take out the bones, 
leaving the vegetables in the broth ; chop a bunch of parsley and 
add it, mafh the peas through a cullender, add them to the 
broth, boil ien minutes and serve. 

Vegetable Soup. 

Put in a gallon stew-pan three ounces of butter, set it over a 
slow fire ; whilst it is melting, slice two large onions cut in thin 
pieces, one turnip, one carrot, and a head of celery; put them in 
the butter, and cover them closely until they are slightly 
browned, shaking frequently to prevent their burning. This 
will take about twenty-five minutes. Have ready a pint of 
beans or split peas which have been soaked in cold water all 
nio-ht, bring them to a boil in two quarts of water. "When the 
vegetables are browned pour the boiling peas over them with the 
water they are in, add two more quarts of water, bring all to a 
boil, skim it well, add to it a slice of stale bread, a blade of mace, 
two dozen allspice, the same of peppercorns ; cover it closely 
and let it simmer for three hours, strain and press through a 
cullender with a wooden spoon, return to the kettle, give a boil 
up and serve. 
2 



1 8 COOKER Y FRO M EXPERIENCE. 

Okra Soup. 

Two pounds of beef boiled in two gallons of water, well 
skimmed while boiling; add four dozen okras sliced, one onion 
chopped fine, half a coflFeecupful of Lima beans, one small green 
pepper, six tomatoes, one teaspoonful of salt; cover the pot and 
boil for four hours. Before serving, add two crabs that have 
been boiled and picked. 

* Nouilles for Soup. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, add a saltspoonful of salt, and 
flour to make a stiff dough ; flour your paste-board, and roll out 
the dough as thin as paper, dust it well with flour, roll it up 
closely, and shave from the end as you would cabbage for cold- 
slaw, with a sharp knife dipped in flour, spread on your board 
with a little flour dusted over it, and let it lie for two hours or 
more ; scatter it lightly into the boiling soup, and let it simmer 
ten minutes, and serve. 

* Dumplings for Pepper Pot. 

Rub into a pint of prepared flour an even tablespoon of 
good lard, add a saltspoonful of salt, mix into a rather soft dough 
with cold water, flour your paste-board, and roll out about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness, cut in long strips half an inch 
wide, and these into squares, dusting them with flour as you 
proceed to prevent their sticking together, drop them ii\ the 
boiling soup and cook them ten mi »utes. 



pisn. 19 



FISH, 



* To boil a Salmon. 

A fish weighing seven or eight pounds will require an hour to 
cook ; wash the fish well, lay it on a trivet in a fish-kettle, with 
plenty of cold water and a tablespoonful of salt ; simmer it slowly 
to keep it from breaking ; when done, lift it out on the trivet and 
Bet it to drain ; then slip it off on to a hot fish-dish, and make a 
sauce of drawn butter, with chopped parsley, or, if you prefer 
it, egg-sauce ; pour a few spoonsful over the fish and the 
remainder in a sauce-boat. 

* Rock Fish. 

A rock fish weighing seven or eight pounds will require half 
an hour to boil ; put it in cold water, with a teaspoonful of salt; 
lay it on a trivet in a fish-kettle, simmer slowly, and when the 
fish is done, lift it out on the trivet, set it to drain ; serve on a 
hot dish, with egg-sauee — a little over the fish, the remainder in 
a sauce-boat ; garnish the fish with sprigs of parsley. 

*Cod Fish. 

A fresh cod requires about the same time to cook as a rock 
fish ; proceed as above, always remembering to put the fish on 
in cold water, suflScient to cover it, and simmer slowly, or the 
fish will break to pieces ; serve with egg or oyster sauce, and 
garnish with parsley. 

* Haddock. 

A haddock of seven or eight pounds will require a little over 
half an hour to boil ; lay it on a trivet in a fish-kettle and cover 
with cold water ; throw in a tablespoonful of salt, and simmer 
jilowly, and serve with egg-sauce, drawn batter with a little 



20 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

chopped parsley in it, or oyster-sauce ; garnish the dish with 
sprigs of parsley. 

* Baked Shad. 
When a fish is to be baked, it should be emptied through the 
gills, and the head left on it. When this is done, wash the fish 
perfectly clean, and prepare a filling of finely-grated bread 
crumbs, sufficient to filt it ; season them with pepper and salt, a 
small onion chopped fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and 
half a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram. Melt a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, and pour over the crumbs, after they have 
been well mixed with the seasoning ; stir together with a knife ; 
beat up an egg and mix through it, and fill the fish ; lay it on a 
trivet in a long dripping-pan, season it with pepper and salt and 
dust it lightly with flour, and set it in a rather quick oven ; 
when it begins to brown, baste it with butter and hot water 
stirred together. A large shad will require an hour to bake. 
Make a sauce of half a small teacup of tomato or mushroom 
catsup, a glass of wine, the juice of a lemon and half a teacup 
of boiling water ; thicken this with a teaspoonful of flour, mixed 
in a very little cold water ; give a boil up. When you have 
dished the fish, if there is any drippings from it in the pan, add 
it to the sauce, pour over the fish and serve with sprigs of parsley 
for a garnish. 

* Sea Bass. 

This fish is best fried. Select those of medium size, weighing 
about two pounds each. After scaling and emptying them, 
wash them well in cold water; score them across the back; season 
with pepper and salt, and dust them lightly with flour and lay 
them across a large pan, in which you have ready hot lard or 
drippings ; fry them slowly, turning them when brown, and 
serve them with a garnish of parsley. 

Flounders. 

Prepare as above ; dip them in beaten egg ; roll them in 
cracker dust, seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry them 
brown. 



FlSh. 21 

* Frost Fish or Smelts. 

These fish require no emptying. Wash them clean, wipe them 
dry, dip them in beaten egg, then in cracker dust, and fry them 
in boiling lard or beef drippings. Season the crackei with 
pepper and salt. 

* Sturgeon. 

If this fish is prepared as it should be, it is very fine eating, 
although few people know it. Procure five or six pounds from 
the thick part of the fish, put it on to boil with plenty of water 
and two tablespoons of salt. As it boils, skim oflf all the fat; 
it will require two hours or more, and should be simmered slowly 
or it will break. When you can run a straw through it, remove 
it from the water and drain it. When this has been done, place 
it in a stone pot or tureen, season it very highly with cayenne 
pepper and salt, throw over it a dozen cloves and three blades 
of mace j mix together vinegar and water in the proportion of a 
bowl of water to every two of vinegar, stir into this throe table- 
spoons of sifted sugar, cover the fish with this, set it away for 
twenty-four hours, keeping it closely covered, and it is ready for 
use. Cut off as much as you wish to go on the table, and serve 
in a flat dish with some of the liquor round it. 

* Roast Stnrgeon. 

Parboil the sturgeon until it begins to be a little tender, re- 
move it from the water. Whilst it is draining and cooling, pre- 
pare the following dressing : Grate a pint of bread crumbs, 
season with pepper, salt, a small onion chopped, a teaspoon of 
sweet marjoram, the same of sweet basil, and a quarter of a 
pound of butter melted and poured over, mix all well together, 
make deep incisions through the fish, fill with the dressing, 
season the outside of the fish with pepper and salt, dust with a 
little flour, baste with butter and hot water, and bake three 
quarters of an hour in a hot oven. 



iJ2 CO OKEB Y FR OM EXPE RIENCE. 

* Cat Fish. 

Cut off their heads, strip off the skin, wash them very clean in 
cold water, wipe them dry, season them with pepper and salt, and 
dust them lightly with flour ; put them in boiling lard or sweet 
beef drippings, and fry them brown. 

* Brook Trout. 

After they have been emptied, wash them and wipe them dry, 
dip them in beaten yolk of egg, roll them in cracker dust sea- 
soned with pepper and salt; have ready hot lard or. drippings, 
and fry them brown. 

Lake Tront. 

This fish may be boiled or broiled. If the latter, proceed the 
same as with broiled shad. To boil it, lay it in a fish-kettle with 
boiling water to cover it, add a tablespoonful of salt, and a wine- 
glass of vinegar; a fish of four or five pounds will require twenty 
minutes. Serve with egg-sauce, or drawn butter with chopped 
parsley. The remains of a boiled trout may be seasoned with 
cayenne pepper and salt, and covered with vinegar, and after 
standing a few hours, is a nice relish for tea, served cold. 

Pickled Salmon, Spiced. 

Soak the fish all night in cold water to extract the salt. Next 
morning lay it in a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, bring it 
to a boil, then simmer until tender ; drain the water from it and 
lay it in a deep vessel or stone pot, ivhich can be closely covered- 
Put over the fire a quart of vinegai in which you have put a tea- 
spoonful of whole cloves, the same of allspice, the same of whole 
black pepper, and four blades of mace. Bring the vinegar to a 
boil; if very sharp, add a teacup of water, and pour it over the 
fish ; if not enough to cover, add more vinegar, cover the vessel 
closely, and set a\tay for twenty-four hours, when it is ready 
for use. 



FISH. 23 

* To broil a Shad. 

Scale it; split it open on the back, keeping the knife close to 
the bone ; wush it in several waters ; wipe it dry, and broil it 
on a gridiron over a bright fire, turning it several times. A 
large shad wil' take fifteen or twenty minutes to cook. Serve it 
on a hot dish, with plenty of butter, pepper and salt. 

* Mackerel. 

Fresh mackerel should be split and broiled the same as shad. 
Salt mackerel should be put in cold water and soaked for twenty- 
four hours before it is cooked ; then take it from the water, 
scrape it over with a dull knife, wash in fresh water, wipe it dry, 
broil over hot coals, butter and serve on a hot dish. 

* Potted Herring. 

Scale them, wash them in several waters, cut off the heads 
and fins, and lay them in a stone pot, with each layer seasoned 
with pepper, salt, whole cloves and allspice, until the vessel is 
full ; pour over them cold vinegar to cover them, lay a plate 
over the top and set them in a moderate oven for five or six 
hours. 

* Stewed Eels. 

Wash them clean ; cut them in pieces two inches long ; put 
them in a stew-pan, with cold water to cover them ; stew them 
about fifteen minutes; then drain off the water, season them 
with pepper and salt, cover them with cream or rich milk, stir a 
tablespoonful of flour into butter the size of an egg, and add it 
with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; boil up and serve. 

Fried Eels. 
Prepare then: as above ; season with pepper and salt, and dust 
them slightly with fl( ur, and fry in nice lard or drippings. 



24 CO OKEB Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

Pickerel. 

Pickerel, perch or any other small fish, are all p:>3pared in the 
same manner. Glean and wash them; season with pepper and 
salt ■ dust with flour, and fry them in boiling lard or drippings. 

* Boiled Halibut. 

A. piece of halibut, weighing five or six pounds, will require 
about an hour to cook ; put it in a fish-kettle, with sufficient 
cold water to cover it ; add a tablespoonful of salt ; simmer very 
slowly, and serve with oyster-sauce. 

* Fried Halibut. 

Gut the fish in slices half an inch thick ; dip the pieces in 
the yolk of egg ; season some cracker dust, in a flat dish, 
with pepper and salt ; roll the fish in this, and fry in hot lard 
or drippings. 

Broiled Halibut. 

Cut the fish in slices as above, wash and wipe it dry, put it 
on the gridiron over the coals ; when done, place it on a hot 
dish ; put on it butter, pepper and salt, and serve. 

* Potted Shad. 
After the shad has been cleaned, wash and wipe it dry, and 
cut it into six pieces across the back, making of each half of the 
fish three pieces ; cover the bottom of an earthen crock or pan ; 
season with pepper, salt, whole allspice, whole cloves, and two 
blades of mace to each layer ; then on this put another layer of 
fish, seasoned as before, and so on until you, have all the fish 
seasoned in layers ; cover with vinegar, tie some brown or sugar- 
loaf paper tightly over the top, or it may be covered with a large 
plate ; bake very slowly for four hours. This is a nice relish 
for tea, and is served cold. 

Stewed Fish. 
Ghop a bunch of parsley and an onion very fine ; put this in 
a bo-»l full of tomato juice, with four cloves, four allspice, a 



FISE 25 

blade of mace and two chopped crackers ; have the fish cleaned 
and well washed, lay it in a stew-pan, pour over it the prepared 
tomato juice, season with pepper and salt, and stew very slowly 
one hour ; thicken with a little brown flour, add a glass of wim 
and serve. 

* Cod Fish (salt). 

Put the fish in cold water and let it remain four or five hours, 
to extract the salt; change the water and wash the fish very 
clean ; lay it in a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, bring it 
to a boil, then set it back on the range or stove where it will 
keep at a boiling temperature without cooking; when perfectly 
tender, drain it, and prepare the sauce as follows : Put in a 
sauce-pan a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it over the fire, 
and stir in it a small tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste, add 
a very little water, stir until it thickens, but do not allow it to 
boil, add to it a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two hard- 
boiled eggs chopped fine, and a cofiee-cup full of rich milk ; 
give it one boil up, take the outside skin and the large bones 
from the fish, put it in a rather deep dish, pour the sauce over 
it, and serve. 

* Cod-fish Cakes. 

Cut the fish into pieces the size of your hand as much as you 
need for the cakes, lay it the skin side uppermost in a pan of 
cold water, cover it closely and set it in the oven over night; in 
the morning pick it to pieces, taking out all the bones and skin, 
chop it very fine in a hard wooden bowl ; to two cups of minced 
fish allow three of mashed potato, prepared as for the table, stir 
the fish and potato together with a fork ; beat in a bowl the 
yolks of two eggs, stir in it two tablespoons of soft butter 
(warmed but not melted) to a smooth paste, add a little black 
pepper, beat the whites of the eggs to a stifi' froth, and mix it 
with the yolks and butter ; turn in the fish and potato, mix it 
well with a fork, flour your hands, and roll tablespoonsful- into 
round balls, flatten them to half an inch thick, and fry them 
brown in hot lard. Scve on a shallow dish. 



26 CO OKER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* New Haven Cod-fish Cakes. 

Put the fish to soak in cold water over night ; in the morning 
pick the bones from the fish, take oif all the skin, and chop the 
fish very fine ; peel, boil and mash as for he table white potatoes; 
to one cup of the chopped fish, add two of the mashed potato ; 
stir together 'with a fork, mould into balls, flatten them to half 
an inch in thickness, and fry them brown in sweet beef drip- 
pings or the fat of salt pork fried. 

* Chowder, No. 1. 

Cut three quarters of a pound of the fat of pickled pork into 
thin slices, cut the slices into strips, cover the bottom of a pot 
with some of the strips, have ready cleaned and washed a cod- 
fish weighing five or six pounds, cut the fish in pieces, lay on 
the pork a layer of the fish, season with pepper and salt, and 
put over it a few slices of onion ; cover this layer with buttered 
crackers; then proceed as before with a layer of pork, fish, 
seasoning and crackers, until you have used all your fish ; cover 
the top with the buttered cracker, pour cold water on sufficient 
to cover the top, keep the vessel you cook it in covered closely, 
and stew gently for an hour. If you find it getting dry add a 
little water occasionally ; this may be improved by adding a few 
raw oysters to each layer of fish ; remove it from the pot with a 
flat skimmer. It may be set in a hot oven, closely covered, to 
cook. 

* Chowder, No. 2. 

Cut into slices three-quarters of a pound of pickled pork, put 
them into the pot you will use for the chowder, fry them a light 
brown, taking care not to burn tHem ; when the fat is all ex- 
tracted, and the pork is brown, take out the slices, add a pint of 
water, or the same quantity of oyster juice or clam juice if you 
have it ; slice some raw potatoes very thin ; if your fish is a large 
one cut it in pieces two or three inches long ; if a small fish, lay 
them in whole (without their heads) ; now place a layer of potatoes, 
then one of fish, on that a layer of soaked crackers, each one 
with a small piece of butfer on it, season with pepper and salt, 



FISE. 27 

and a few rings of sliced onion ; place another layer of potato, 
fish, crackers and seasoning, until you have all the fish in, then 
pour over all the water and fried pork-fat, cover tightly and 
stew slowly for one hour, or set it in a hot oven for the same 
time. 

Clam Chowder. 

Proceed exactly as above, leaving out the salt, as the clams 
are very salt in themselves, and putting clams in the place of 
the fish 5 if you have not juice enough to cover them, add water. 

*Turbot a la Creme. 
Procure a haddock weighing about six pounds ; after it has 
been cleaned and washed in several waters, put it over the fire 
in a fish-kettle with cold water and a tablespoonful of salt, sim- 
mer it slowly for half an hour; when the fish is done, remove 
it from the water, drain it, then skin it, and take out all the 
bones, picking the flakes of the fish apart ; melt in a saucepan 
a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, stir into this a tablespoonful 
of flour; when there are no lumps add a pint of cream, stir it 
all the time until it thickens, but do not let it boil ; butter a 
baking dish, season the fish with a little cayenne pepper, salt 
and a very little powdered mace, and put it in the dish ; it 
should be a deep one ; then pour the cream over it, and sprinkle 
a tablespoonful of grated cheese over the top, bake it h^lf an 
hour in a quick oven ; it should be a nice brown. 

* Smoked Salmon. 
Pour boiling water over the fish, and let it stand until cold; 
then wash the fish and wipe it dry, put it on a gridiron over a 
bright fire, turn it frequently to prevent it being dry ; when you 
are sure it is cooked through, serve it on a hot dish with plenty 
of butter over it. Or put the fish in cold water over nigho, 
wipe it dry, and proceed as above. 

Smoked Herring. 
Scald them, pull ofi^ the skin, and broil a few minutes over hot 
coals, turning them once. 



28 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Fricasseed Sturgeon. 
Procure a slice of sturgeon nearly an inch in thickness, put ii 
in a stew-pan with boiling water suflScient to cover it, and sim- 
mer until tender; then drain it and cut it in small pieces; melt 
in a sauce-pan butter the size of an egg, stir in it a teaspoonful 
of flour; add half a pint of cream, a heaping teaspoon of chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt ; boil up and pour over the fish. 

Fried Clams. 

Open and cut fine fifty sand clams, drain off the liquor ; beat 
two eggs very light, and add them to the clams with a little 
chopped parsley, two spoonsful of milk, and pepper and salt to 
your taste ; stir all well together, and dust in flour to make a 
thin batter ; drop a tablespoonful at a time in boiling lard. 

* Anchovy Toast. 

Out slices of bread half an inch thick, toast them evenly 
brown, butter plentifully, and lay the anchovies on thg slice, 
lay another slice over them, put them in the oven for five 
minuteS; and serve. 



MEATS. 



Hemarks on Roasting, Boiling, &c. 

In roasting or baking, after the meats are properly prepared, 
everything depends upon having a clear fire and a clean range 
or stove. See that your ovens are free from ashes on top and 
under them, and that the fire is well raked and made up with 
fresh coal. 

Meat and poultry, when roasting, should be basted with the 
drippings every fifteen or twenty minutes. If this is neglected, 
the outside will be hard and stringy, and difficult to carve 
without tearing the meat. All kinds of meat and poultry are 
better for being kept for several days before cooking ; a leg of 
mutton may be hung in a cold dry place for a week in winter; 
beef is preferred by most persons a little rare — a leg of mutton 
the same ; but the loin of mutton, pork, veal, poultry and birds, 
all require to be thoroughly cooked. Venison should be a little 
rare ; all kinds of fish should be thoroughly cooked, as nothing 
is more unpalatable than underdone fish. 

Meat for soup should always be put on the fire in cold water, 
brought gradually to the boil, then skimmed and cooked slowly 
as long as required, and the vessel kept covered closely. 
Jointa or poultry for the table should be put in boiling water, 
and replenished with the same. Fish should be put over '.he 
fire in cold water, unless otherwise directed in the recipe for 
cooking it. 

(29) 



30 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 



BEEF. 

For roasting, the second cut frora the thinnest side of the ribs, 
or the sirloin, are the best pieces. 

For broiling, sirloin or porter-house steaks, or steaks cut from 
the rump. 

For i^la-mode, the tender side of the round. 

For stewing, the round, rump, and the plate or brisket. 

For soup, the shin or leg, edge-bone, shoulder or round. 

For boiling, the round. 



* Eoast Beef. 
Season with pepper and salt, and dust with flour j put the 
beef ih the dripping-pan, bone side down, if you are going to 
bake or roast it in the oven ; put a small quantity of hot water 
in the pan, not enough to stew the meat, but simply to prevent 
the pan from burning. When the fat commences to drip from 
the meat, baste it. This should be done every twenty minutes. 
Allow the beef to be in the oven a quarter of an hour to every 
pound if you like it rare in the middle. When done, lift it out 
of the pan to a hot dish, dust flour in the drippings, set it on the 
top of the stove or range, add hot water, boil up, put a few 
spoonfuls over the top of the meat to give it a rich look, serve 
the rest in a gravy-boat. If the beef is very fat, pour off part 
of the drippings and set aside for frying, before you add the 
flour. If the gravy is not as brown as you wish, add a few 
spoonsful of browning, and use brown flour for the thickening. 

* Roast Beef with Yorkshire Pudding. 

The ends of the long ribs is a nice piece for this purpose. If 
you procure this piece, four ribs will be sufficient. Season the 
meat with pepper and salt, put it in a dripping-pan, set it in the 



MEATS. 31 

oven, and when the fat has dripped out to cover well the bottom 
of the pan, pour a pudding round it, made as follows : Beat the 
yolks and whites separately of four eggs, then beat the two 
together, stir in five heaping tablespoons of flour and a little salt, 
add gradually to this a pint of milk, bake slowly for one hour ; 
take up the meat, place it in the centre of a flat dish, cut the 
pudding in four pieces of equal size, that is across both ways, lay 
it round the meat to look as it did in the pan, make a gravy as 
tor roast beef, and pour over the meat and serve. 

*Beef a-la-Mode. 

Select a lean piece of the rump of the beef, weighing ten or 
twelve pounds, have the butcher trim it into a nice round shape, 
so that it will lie flat on the pan, cut a pound of fat pickled pork 
into strips half an inch square, draw them through the depth 
of the beef with a larding needle, or if you are not expert at 
-this, you may cut incisions through the meat with a sharp and 
narrow-bladed knife, push the pork down into these until the 
pieces are only half an inch above the top of the beef. Mix 
together in a wooden bowl a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, one 
of sweet basil, and one of thyme, all dried and rubbed fine ; stir 
them all together, and add a teaspoonful of powdered cloves, one 
of black pepper, and one of salt, and half a teaspoonful of 
powdered mace. Mix all together, and rub the meat well with 
it, top, sides and bottom, chop a large onion, and a bunch of 
parsley, scatter them over the top of the meat, cover the bottom 
of a large s^tew-pan with thin slices of fat pork or bacon, lay the 
beef on them with the larded side uppermost. Mix together 
and pour over the meat four wine-glasses of good cooking wine, 
the same of tomato catsup, and half a pint of cold water; cover 
the vessel tightly, set it in a quick oven, and cook it four hours. 
When done, put the meat on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with 
a little browned flour, and pour over and serve. 



32 COOKER r FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Sirloin of Beef. 

Six or eight pounds of this cut make a good roast, as there 
is very little waste in it. Remove the bone, or have your 
butcher do it, skewer the meat into the shape of a fillet, season 
with black pepper and salt, dust with flour, and proceed as with 
ribs, basting often, slice it horizontally; or you may season as 
for k-la-mode beef; skewer it round and cook the same way. 

* Stewed Beef. 

A thick slice from the rump of beef weighing four or five 
pounds, brown it in a stew-pani, in nice drippings or butter, pour 
over it boiling water to cover it, add a carrot cut small, a couple 
of onions chopped, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and pepper 
and salt; stew gently for three or four hours. When perfectly 
tender, serve on a hot dish, thicken the gravy with a tablespoon- 
ful of browned flour, add two teaspoonsful of browning, and a 
wine-glass of tomato or mushroom catsup, boil up, and pour 
over the meat and serve. 

* Beefsteak Broiled. 

Sirloin or porter-house steak is the best; after this the rump. 
Have your steak nearly or quite an inch in thickness; place it 
between the bars of your gridiron, having previously put a dish 
the size for it into the coolest oven, leaving the door open ; put 
the steak over a clear fire of coals ; turn it constantly ; this 
.keeps in the juice and prevents the hardening of the steak; 
broil each side about seven minutes or until a nice brown ; slip 
it off on the dish ; spread good sweet butter on it ; then pepper 
and salt ; turn it over and serve the other side with the same ; 
wipe the edge, of the dish with the corner of a clean kitchen 
towel, which has been wet, and send to table immediately. A 
steak is spoiled by keeping it standing ; therefore it should be 
done the last thing. 



MEATS. 33 

* Stew of Beef. 
Take two and a half pounds of rump c. round of steak ; cut 
it into pieces an inch square ; put in a frying-pan some nice 
beef-drippings or a tablespoonful of butter and lard mixed ; 
make it hot ; put the beef in this with a little dust of flour ; 
cook until beginning to be a nice brown ; then cover with cold 
water ; add pepper and salt. Stew this two hours, and when 
done very tender, add a wine-glass of tomato catsup, a little 
flour to thicken the gravy, and serve. This must be kept 
covered with water all the time it is cooking, by adding a little 
at a time as it boils away, and is a nice breakfast or supper 
relish or as an additional dish at dinner. 

* Beef Tongue Bouilli. 
Procure a beef's tongue which has been pickled but not 
smoked ; wash it very clean and put it in a vessel with cold 
water, let it come to a hard boil, then cook it more slowly until 
quite tender, which will be in about two hours, or a little more, 
if it is a large tongue. When done, take it out and drain itj 
have a smaller vessel, in which melt some beef-drippings ; add a 
little water, lay the tongue in and simmer, turning often, until 
very soft; take out the tongue, lay it on a hot dish, and make a 
gravy as follows : chop rather small two pickled cucumbers and 
add them to the contents of the stew-pan, mix two teaspoonsful 
of browned flour in a little cold water to a smooth paste, stir it 
in ; then add a wine-glass of tomato catsup, half an one of Wor- 
cestershire sauce and a glass of good cooking wine ; boil up ; 
pour over the tongue and serve. Skin the tongue before 
putting it in the drippings. 

* Brisket of Beef Bouilli. 

Procure six or seven pounds (or less) of brisket, put it in a 
stew-pan and just cover it with cold water; when it simmers, 
skim it and add a bunch of parsley and one of thyme, a large 
onion sliced, a head of celery cut in small pieces, a dozen whole 
grains of allspice and the same of black pepper, a teaspoonfu' 
3 



34 CO OKRR T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

of salt, thren carrots peeled and cut in thick slices, tvi . turnips, 
and four tomatoes peeled and cut in pieces, or half a can of 
tomatoes; simmer all very slowly for three hours. When the 
meat is tender, lay it on a dish, take out the stems of the 
parsley and thyme, thicken with browned flour and pour over the 
meat, and serve. 

* Bouilli of Beef. 

Procure a thick piece of the round of beef, weighing nine or 
ten pounds; cut half a pound of fat pickled pork into thin slices, 
throw them into a .stew-pan and turn them about until the fat is 
beginning to fry out of them ; then lay the beef on them and 
brown it on both sides. When this is done, pour over all cold 
water to cover the meat ; add eight or ten whole cloves ; scrape, 
wash and cut in strips four carrots and add them with one large 
onion sliced and six tomatoes peeled and cut up; if winter, 
pour over a can of tomatoes. Cook slowly four or five hours ; 
keep the vessel covered closely. When done, remove the meat, 
and thicken the gravy with browned flour, adding two tea- 
spoonsful of burnt sugar ; boil it up and pour over the beef. 

* Round of Beef Salted. 

Put the beef into cold water ; bring it to a boil ; then set on 
one side, where it will simmer until done. A piece weighing ten 
pounds will require three or four hours. If you do not serve it 
until cold, let it remain in the water it was boiled in until it is 
perfectly cold ; then drain it dry and set aside. If served hot, 
use tomato catsup as a sauce. 

* Beef's Liver Pickled. 

Make a pickle to bear an egg, of only salt and water ; put the 
liver in it, with a weight on it to keep it down ; turn it once in 
the pickle. In ten days it will be ready to take out. Hang it 
up in a cool, dry place. In a few days you may use it. Cut 
very thin ; melt a piece of butter in a pan ; put the liver in and 
Ktir about until cooked ; dust in . a little flour ; add milk or 



MEATS. 35 

cream ; give a boil up and serve. Cut the liver as thin as you 
cut dried beef for frizzling. 

* Ragout of Cold Beef. 
Cut into thin slices, cold rare beef, season it with pepper ai d 
salt, and a little grated nutmeg; put the bones, cracked inio 
rather small pieces, and all the skins and trimmings of the meat, 
into a stew-pan, and cover them with cold water and boil them 
an hour or two before you are ready to make the ragout ; strain 
them in a cullender, return the broth to the stew-pan, add half 
a large onion chopped finely, a heaping tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, half a teacup of tomato catsup, or a teacupful of canned 
tomato, and a blade of mace ; simmer for ten minutes, then put 
in the meat, let all get boiling hot, by simmering for about ten 
minutes more ; mix a tablespoonful of flour, with butter the size 
of an egg, and stir it in, give a boil up, add a tablespoonful of 
browning, and serve. A glass of wine and a tablespoonful of 
currant jelly may be added for those who like it. 

* Another. 

Slice rare cold beef thinly, melt in a frying-pan butter the 
size of an egg, lay the meat in it, and brown slightly ; add to it 
a blade of mace, cayenne pepper and salt, a wine-glass of mush- 
room catsup, and a tablespoonful of browned flour; stir all 
together over the fire, and add half a pint of broth made as 
above from the bones and trimmings of the beef, simmer five 
minutes, add a glass of Port wine and a tablespoonful of brown- 
ing, give a boil up, and serve. 

* Beef Hash. 

Chop cold beef very fine, season it with pepper, salt and a 
little grated nutmeg, add an onion chopped very fine, and a 
heaping tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; butter a baking-dish, 
put the meat in it and press it down closely, pour over it cold 
gravy or broth made as above with the bones and trimmings 
(about a teacup full), cover the top with fine bread-crumbs, 



86 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

seasoned and covered with little pieces of butter, and bake a 
little over half an hour. Loosen it round the sides wL;h a knife, 
and turn it upside down on a dish ; it should be the shape of 
the pan and nicely browned. 

* Beef's Heart. 

Lay the heart in cold water with a handful of salt for one 
hour, then wash it in fresh cold water, and wipe it dry ; prepare 
a filling with a coffee-cup of finely grated bread-crumbs, season 
with pepper and salt, half a teaspoonful of sweet basil, the same 
of sweet marjoram, and the same of sage, all dried and powdered ; 
add to this a small onion chopped very fine, and a teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley ; melt a piece of butter the size of a small 
egg, and pour over the crumbs, mixing all thoroughly together 
with a knife, beat up an egg and stir in ; cut with a sharp knife 
a deep incision through the middle of the heart, then another 
across the first, thus opening the whole centre of the heart ;- 
put the filling in it, pressing it down well through it, skewer it 
across to prevent the filling from falling out, season it outside 
with pepper and salt, dust it with flour, and set it in a hot oven 
in a small dripping-pan, baste it frequently with butter and 
water, and bake an hour, or longer if large ; when the heart is 
done take it from the pan, and add to the drippings a glass of 
wine, one of tomato catsup, a little flour, and if too thick a very 
little boiling water, give a boil up, pour over the heart, and 
serve. Cut it in slices across the heart. 

* Spiced Beef. 
Five or six pounds of the brisket of beef j takeout the bones, 
wash the meat clean, wipe it dry, and sprinkle over it pepper 
and salt, a little powdered cloves and celery seed, roll it up very 
tight, tie it at both ends and in the middle, or skewer it very 
closely, and stew it slowly with water to cover it, four hours, 
keeping it closely covered; when done there should be very 
little gravy left j remove the meat, take off the strings c r skewers ; 



MEATS. 37 

thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, a wine-glass of 
tomato catsup, give a boil up, pour it over the meat, and serve. 

* Spiced Beef, No. 2. 

Take eight pounds of thin flank of beef or brisket. If the 
latter, take out all the bone, flatten it with a chopper, and 
sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, one of powdered 
cloves and allspice mixed, half an one of powdered mace, a 
bunch of parsley minced fine, and a large onion chopped very 
fine, half a teaspoonfal of black pepper, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a little cayenne ; roll the meat up tightly, tie it in a cloth 
at both ends and in the middle, put it in a pot of boiling water, 
and cook it slowly for four hours, or until perfectly tender. 
Take it out, put it between two dishes with a heavy weight on 
the top, and let it stand until next day, slice it thin, and garnish 
with sprigs of parsley. Take the cloth from the meat before 
you put it in press. 

Seef Hash Baked, 

One pound of cold beef chopped very fine ; season with pepper 
and salt, a small onion chopped fine, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a little water. 
Stew all together for five minutes ; stir in seven rolled crackers ; 
pjur all in a buttered dish and bake twenty minutes in a hot 
Ofen. 

* Stuffed Beefsteak. 

Procure a steak cut from the rump or round of beef, weighing 
about two and a half pounds. Prepare a filling with a pint of 
grated bread crumbs, an onion chopped fine, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, half an one 
of sweet basil, and pepper and salt to taste ; melt a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, pour over, and mix all well together ; spread 
this evenly over the steak, leaving an inch all around the edge ; 
roll up as tightly as you can, secure firmly with skewers through 
the middle and at botl. ends; lay the steak in a stew-pan, cover 
it with boiling water, -.nd stew it gently for an hour. Take it 



38 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

out carefully ; put a few pieces of butter over it j dust with 
pepper, salt and flour; lay it in another stew-pan; pour the 
iroth it was cooked in around it, and bake until brown, basting 
it several times. When done, thicken the gravy with browned 
flour, give it a boil up, pour over the roll, and serve. 

* Beef Birds. 
Cut slices half an inch thick from the rump or round of beef; 
divide them into pieces about four inches square ; spread them 
with sausage meat, or force-meat, if you prefer it; roll up 
tightly, tie or skewer them, brown them in butter, «over with 
broth and stew until tender and nearly dry ; thicken the gravy 
with a spoonful of browned flour; add a wine-glass of tomato or 
mushroom catsup, boil up, pour over and serve. 

* Smoked Tongue Boiled. 

Lay the tongue in cold water all night; then put it in a vessel ' 
which will hold two gallons, cover it with cold water, bring it 
to a boil, and then set it where it will continue to boil gently for 
three hours ; replenish the water from a kettle as fast as it boils 
away ; try the tongue with a fork ; if not perfectly soft, boil it 
longer. When thoroughly cooked, take it from the water, 
remove the skin, trim the smoked parts all ofi' the root; have 
ready mashed potato ; set the tongue upon the dish you serve it 
on, in the same position that it was in its owner's mouth ; lay 
the potato all round it, press it against it, and smooth the sides 
up to the tongue. Do this as quickly as possible, so that all 
may be hot together, and serve. 

* Dried Beef Frizzled. 

Shave the beef as thin as paper ; melt in a frying-pan a piece 
of butter the size of a large egg; when hot, stir in the beef, 
and toss it about for a minute; have ready a teacup of cream or 
rich milk, with the yolk of an egg beaten in it and a saltspoonful 
of mixed mustard ; dust the beef with flour, stir it about, then 
pour in the cream, shake it through the meal boil up and servo. 



MEATS. 39 

* Dried Beef Frizzled in Cream, No. 2. 

Chip the beel" as thin as paper with a very sharp knjfe. Melfc 
in a frying-pan butter the sijse of an egg, stir the beef about in 
it for two or three minutes, dust in a little flour, add half a tea- 
cup of rich cream, give a boil up, and serve in a covered dish. 

* Frizzled Beef, No. 3. 

Chip the beef as above, melt in a frying-pan butter the size 
of an egg, stir in the beef, toss it about over a hot fire, add two 
tablespoonsful of hot water, boil up and serve. Cook the beef 
rather longer in this recipe than in the former one, with cream. 

*ETimp Steak Stewed. 

Put an ounce of butter into a stew-pan ; when melted, lay in 
the steak, cook slowly five minutes ; then turn over and cook 
five minutes more; boil a pint of button onions for half an hour ; 
put the water they were boiled in over the steak ; if there is not 
enough to cover it, add more ; season with pepper and salt, and 
simmer gently an hour and a half. In another sauce-pan put 
two ounces of butter ; when it is melted, stir in as much browned 
flour as will make a stiff paste ; add to this a tablespoonful of 
Claret or Port wine, the same of mushroom catsup ; add a little 
salt and pepper and the water the beef was stewed in ; lay the 
beef in this ; give a good boil for two or three minutes, and 
serve it with the onions round the steak and the gravy poured 
over. The onions must be kept hot by setting the vessel they 
were cooked in into another one of boiling water, closely 
covered. 

* Pressed Beef 

Procure about six or eight pounds of the brisket of beef; 
put it in piekle for two weeks, or get your butcher to put it in 
a sweet pickle for you; wash it clean, and put it in a vessel with 
cold water ; bring it to a boil ; then set it where it will simmer 
until tender. When you can run a straw through it, remove it 
from the fire, draii. it, take out all the bones, roll it up tightly, 



40 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

tie or skewer it to keep it in its place, put it on a plate or dish, 
put another one on top of it and place a heavy weight on it; 
let it stand until next day; cut in thin slices for supper or 
luncheon. 

* Beef's Kidneys Stewed. 
Cut them in pieces half an inch square ; remove all the fat 
and veins; wash them in two waters; put them in a stew-pan, 
with cold water to cover them ; bring to a boil ; then strain the 
water off and add boiling water to cover them; season with 
pepper and salt, and stew them until very tender ; then add a 
bunch of parsley chopped fine, a tablespoonful of browned flour 
rubbed to a paste with cold water, and a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, boil up for a few minutes and serve. If you wish 
them for an early breakfast, they must be cooked the day before, 
and set away and finished in the morning, as they require two 
or three hours' stewing to make them tender. 

* Potted Beef. 
Boil a shin of beef in sufficient water to cover it, until the 
meat drops from the bones, which will take five or six hours, 
skim out the meat, pick out all the bones and gristle, chop in a 
wooden bowl until it is a paste, moistening it as you chop it with 
some of the liquor it was boiled in ; be careful to get the marrow 
out of the bones, and put with the meat ; when it is chopped 
to a paste, season very highly with pepper, salt, a small teaspoon- 
ful of grated nutmeg, sweet marjoram, sweet basil, and a little 
powdered cloves; chop all together, then pack it closely into 
moulds by pressing down with a spoon ; set in a cool place ; 
when you wish to use it turn it out of the mould, and set on a 
dish to be sliced down like tongue. A very nice dish for lunch, 
tea or breakfast. You will need a pint or more of the liquor to 
moisten the meat as you chop it, but it must be added very 
gradually, so that you do not get it too thin ; the remainder of 
the broth may be used as sta k for soup. 



MEATS. 41 

Stuffed Beef. 

Ten or twel/e pounds of the round of beef; remove the boiift 
from the centre, prepare a dressing or filling as follows: One 
pint of bread crumbs, pepper and salt to taste, a teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram, half an one of sweet basil, an onion chopped 
very fine, a little grated nutmeg (a saltspoonful), and a bunch 
of parsley chopped fine; melt three ounces of butter, pout over 
the crumbs after thej are seasoned, stir it well together, break 
an egg in this and stir again ; when thoroughly incorporated, 
fill up the hole you took the bone from, make incisions down 
through the beef around the centre, fill them with the re- 
mainder of the filling, cut slices of fat pork, cover the top of 
the meat with them, place in a stew-pan, and cover closely; 
pour around it a pint of boiling water, and cook slowly in a 
moderate oven for nearly four hours; baste it frequently, adding 
more water as it cooks away ; when the meat is done thicken 
the gravy, and send to table in a sauce tureen or gravy-boat. 

* Fanny S's Savory Beef. 

Three and a half pounds of lean uncooked beef, pound it and 
chop it as fine as possible, take out all the strings, and add to it 
six square soda crackers rolled as fine as the cracker dust, butter 
the size of an egg, warmed a little, but not melted, four table- 
spoonsful of sweet cream, three eggs broken over the meat, a 
whole nutmeg grated, four teaspoons of salt, two and a half of 
black pepper, and a tablespoonful of sweet marjoram ; knead it 
well with your hands, make it in two rolls, about the size of a 
beef's tongue, press it very closely into the rolls, put them into 
a pan and bake them an hour and a half; baste them with butter 
and water. When one side is brown, turn them over. When 
cold, cut in thin slices for tea-table or luncheon. 

* A very good Pie of Cold Beef 

Slice cold roast beef; lay it in a sauce-pan, with the remain* 
of cold gravy; season it with pepper and salt; add a small 



42 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

ouion chopped, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a half a salt- 
spoonful of grated nutmeg. Give all a boil up. If not enough 
gravy, add a piece of butter rubbed to a paste with two tea- 
spoons of brown flour, and a cup of boiling water. Grive all one 
boil up, and set aside whilst you make a good plain pie-crust j 
line a deep dish with the crust, pour in the meat and gravjj 
trim the edge of the crust, close to the dish, place a cover on it 
of crust rolled a little thicker than for the lining, in which you 
have made several incisions, and bake in a quick oven three- 
quarters of an hour. Wet the edge of the under crust with 
cold water before you put on the cover. 

* Corned Beef. 
All corned beef requires to be boiled slowly. Put it on in 
cold water; allow about twenty-five minutes for every pound of 
beef, and serve with boiled or fried parsnips, stewed cabbage or 
boiled turnips either sliced or mashed. 

* Pickle for Corning Beef. 

Three gallons of water, six and three-quarter pounds of fine 
Bait, three ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of pearlash, two and a 
half pounds of white sugar, and a pint of molasses. This is 
suflBcient for fifty pounds of meat. When all dissolved, lay in 
the beef. It will be ready for use in twelve or fourteen days, 
and can remain in the pickle five or six weeks without injury. 

* Beef Steak Pudding. 

Take about three pounds and a half of rump steak, beat it 
with a chopper, and cut it in pieces half the size of your hand, 
peel, wash and cut in slices half an inch thick about eight white 
potatoes, butter a large pudding mould, and line it with crust 
made as for apple dumplings ; put in a layer of the meat, season 
with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and scatter over it 
a little very finely chopped onion ; then put on this a layer of 
the sliced potato, on this another layer of meat seasoned as 
before, then another of potato, and so on until all are in ; mix 
in a bo\(rl two wine-glasses of mushroom catsup, and the sanio 



MEATS. 43 

at veal or beef broth, pour over, roll out a cover, and put it on 
closely, wetting the edge of the under crust and pressing the top 
on it to make it stick, and tie it up closely in a thick pudding 
cloth ; have ready a large pot of boiling water, put it in, and 
boil it for two hours and a half; when done take off the cloth, 
turn it upside down on a dish, and remove the mould. 

* Beefs Kidneys, No. 2. 

Cut them into small pieces, and wash them in two or three 
waters ; put in a stew-pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
and a tablespoonful of flour ; put in the kidneys, and stir about 
until brown, then add pepper and salt, and a pint of boiling 
water (for two kidneys), cover closely and simmer slowly for five 
hours ; then add a little chopped parsley, a tablespoonful of 
browning, boil up and serve. 

* Meat Balls of Beef, Mutton or Veal. 

Two cups of cold roast meat chopped very fine, leaving out all 
the fat, brown skin and gristle, three-quarters of a cup of very 
finely-grated bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of fat pickled 
pork chopped very fine, a teacup of cold boiled potato also 
chopped fine, one tablespoonful of butter warmed but not melted, 
two of tomato catsup, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, half an 
one of sweet basil, a piece of onion the size of a nutmeg, chopped 
finely, pepper and salt, and one egg. Stir the meat, potato, 
pork, crumbs, and seasoning all together, mix the butter with 
the yolk of the egg, then beat the white of the egg light, add it 
to the butter and yolk, and mix all together; make the meat 
into balls, flatten them half an inch in thickness, and brown in 
hot sweet beef drippings, or nice lard, or half butter and half 
lard. 

* Stewed Tripe. 

Boil the tripe the day before it is wanted until a straw will 
run through it ; next day cut it in pieces half the size of an 
oyster, and put it in a stew-pan with a pint of milk ; rub a 
quarter of a pound of butter to a paste with a heaping table 



14 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

spoonful of flour ; when the milk boils, stir in the butter and 
flour, add salt and pepper to your taste, a blade of mace broken 
up, and half a teaspoonful of whole allspice ; boil up, and serve. 

*]H:TrTTOii. 

For soup, the shoulder, neck or leg. 
For roasting, the hind-quarter or leg, the loin or breast. 
For boiling, the leg. 

For broiling, chops cut from the loin, or the breast, and steaks 
cut from the leg. 

For stewing, chops from the fore-quarter, the neck or leg. 

* leg of Mutton Boiled. 

Wash the leg clean, put it in a vessel holding sufficient boiling 
water to cover it, add a tablespoonful of salt ; it will require a 
quarter of an hour for every pound of meat; serve with caper- 
sauce, drawn butter with chopped parsley, or with egg-sauce. A 
leg of mutton is much finer if hung for several days, or a week, 
if the weather permits, before it is cooked. 

* Leg of Mutton Stewed. 

Wash the leg clean, cover the bottom of a long and narrow 
stew-pan with slices of salt pork, bacon or fat ham (uncooked), 
lay the leg on these, cover it completely over with slices of the 
same, which may be skewered to keep them in their place, have 
some trimmings of uncooked veal, three carrots, scraped and 
cut in slices half an inch thick, three onions sliced, a bunch of 
parsley and the same of thyme (not chopped), lay these around 
the leg, season all with pepper and a very little salt, as the 
bacon will give it a salt taste, pour cold water sufficient to come 
to the top of the leg but not over it, cover very closely and set 
it in the oven, which should be moderately hot, remove the cover 
occasionally and baste the leg, cook slowly four hours ; take out 
the leg, lay it on a hot dish, thicken the giavy with browned 
flour, give it a boil up, add half a teacup of tomato catsup, give 
it another boil, pour over the leg and serve. 



MEATS. 45 

* Leg of Mutton Roasted. 

Wash and wipe the leg, lay it in a dripping-pan, season with 
pepper and salt and dust with flour, put a teacupful of water 
in the pan, and roast two hours in a hot oven ; take out the leg, 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, add boiling water, Doil 
up, put a few spoonsful over the meat and serve the remainder 
in a sauce-boat. Currant jelly should always accompany roast 
mutton. Baste the leg frequently whilst roasting. 

* Leg of Mutton Stuffed. 

"Wash and wipe the mutton, grate a pint of bread crumbs, 
season with salt and pepper, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, 
two teaspoonsful of sage, and half an one of sweet basil (all dried 
and rubbed fine), chop a medium-sized onion, and put it over 
the fire in a small sauce-pan with butter the size of a large egg, 
stew for five minutes, pour over the bread crumbs and stir in 
thoroughly ; with a sharp knife make a deep incision on the 
long side of the leg parallel with the bone, push the dressing in 
making it go all through the length of the leg, skewer it at the 
opening where you stuffed it, season the leg with pepper and 
salt, dust it with flour, and roast two hours in a hot oven, keep- 
ing a little water in the pan to baste it with, which should be 
done every fifteen or twenty minutes, thicken the gravy with 
browned flour, put a few spoonsful over the meat when you 
place it on the dish, and serve the remainder in a gravy-boat. 
To be eaten with currant jully. 

* Matton Venison. 
Cut thin slices from a leg which has been hung for several 
days, season with cayenne pepper and salt, melt a quarter of 
a pound of .butter in a frying-pan, lay in the slices, add two 
blades of mace, turn them once, dust in a very little flour, and 
fltir in half a teacup of currant jelly; stir this about until the 
jelly is entirely melted, add a glass of wine, boil up and serve. 
A few minutes is sufficient to cook it. 



46 CO OKEB Y FK ^M EXPERIENCE. 

* Mutton-Chops Stewed. 

Put the chops in a stew-pan, with pepper and salt, and a 
small onion ; cover them with cold water, fjid set them pver a 
slow fire, and stew until tender ; when half done, add a gill o.' 
tomato catsup. They will require about an hour ; thicken the 
gravy with browned flour, and pour over the meat. 

* Irish Stew. 

Four pounds of meat from the neck or loin of mutton ; peel, 
wash and cut in half ten or twelve white potatoes, six onions 
peeled and sliced ; put a layer of meat cut in chops at the bottom 
of your stew-pan, then a layer of onions, then one of potatoes j 
season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley ; then 
another layer of meat, onions and potatoes, seasoned as before, 
until all are in ; pour over all a pint of good broth, with a gill 
of mushroom or tomato catsup j cover closely and simmer for 
one hour, slowly. 

* Mutton Curry. 

Lay a breast of mutton in a stew-pan, put on it two quarts of 
water, and simmer it slowly for an hour and a half; cut in slices 
a large onion and brown it nicely in a small frying-pan with a 
little butter ; add to it a heaping tablespoonful of curry powder 
and a little salt ; take the meat from the broth, and stir in the 
curry ; put the meat back into it, and simmer slowly for an 
hour longer j then lay it on a hot dish and pour the gravy over 
it; if it is not thick enough, add a little browned flour, give a 
boil up and pour over the meat. 

* Leg of Mutton Boned. 

With a sharp knife make an incision close to the bone, at the 
knuckle ; keep the knife as near the bone as possible until you 
have loosened all around the knuckle ; then divide the joint 
and draw the bone out ; next cut around the blade-bone at the 
other end of the leg, lopsen.it with both knife and fingers, and 
proceed slowly all along the leg-bone until you can draw it out ; 
then make a force-meat as follows : Chop very fine a pound of 



VEATS. 47 

Jean and juicy veal, ths same of pickled pork, grate a cupful 
of bread-crumbs ; mix all together, season with pepper and salt, 
two teaspoonsful of sage rubbed fine, two of summer savory 
ditto, and one of sweet basil ; mix all well together; beat the 
yolks of three eggs, and add them, with a gill of mushroom or 
tomato catsup ; fill the leg where you extracted the bone, pack 
it in as tightly as possible, season the leg with pepper and salt, 
dust it with flour, put it in a dripping-pan, with a teacup of 
boiling water around it ; roast it in a moderate oven two and a 
half hours, basting often ; thicken the gravy with browned 
flour, put a few spoonsful on the meat, the remainder in a gravy- 
boat. 

* Mutton Haricot. 
Take about four pounds of the neck, breast or loin of mutton ; 
out it in chops about three inches square ; put into a stew-pan 
three ounces of butter or good beef drippings. When hot, add 
a tablespoonful of browned flour, and the same of brown sugar ; 
stir them all together ; lay the meat evenly over the bottom of 
the pan and brown nicely on both sides ; add pepper and salt to 
taste, ^d a little hot water, but not quite covering the meat; 
add three carrots, washed and scraped, and cut in pieces, about 
an inch long, two turnips ditto, and a bunch of parsley and 
thyme tied together ; simmer slowly until the mutton is tender, 
which will be in about an hour ; then add three potatoes, peeled, 
washed and cut in pieces. When the potatoes are done, if the 
gravy is not thick enough, add more browned flour, and serve all 
on a dish together, laying the pieces of meat around the dish 
with the vegetables in the centre. You may add an onion to 
this when you put in the carrots if you choose; 

Mutton Haricot, No. 2. 

Four or five pounds of chops from the neck of mutton; season 
them with cayenne and black pepper, and salt; put them in a 
stew-pan, dredgn them well with flour, and add to them three 
carrots cut in slices, a chopped onion, a tablespoonful of brown- 



i8 COOKER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ing, and a little water; stew slowly three or four hours, then add 
half a pint of stewed tomatoes, stew five minutes nore and serve 

* Mutton Chops. 

These may be cut from the neck or loin. Trim oif the fat, 
lay them on a board, and beat them once with the flat part of a 
cleaver or chopper; then place them on a gridiron over a quick 
fire ; turn them often whilst broiling. When done, lay them on 
a hot dish, butter, pepper and salt each one separately, and 
serve very hot. 

* A Nice Way to Cook Mutton for Breakfast or Supper. 

Cut thin slices from a leg of mutton which has been hanging 
for two or three days (if in winter), for two pounds put a piece 
of butter the size of a large egg into a frying-pan over the fire. 
When hot, lay in the slices, season with cayenne and black 
pepper, and salt, add two blades of mace, turn the mutton about 
until cooked, which will be in a few minutes ; add a teaspoon- 
ful of browned flour, half a teacupful of tomato catsup, and a 
tablespoonful of hot water ; give all a boil up and serve. 

* Mutton Stew. 

Peel a quarter of a peck of tomatoes ; cut out the green hearts, 
but do not squeeze out the juice ; wash a quart of ciras and slice 
them half an inch in thickness, four large cucumbers washed 
and cut in pieces, two onions peeled and cut in four, and four 
pounds of the neck of mutton, with the joints cracked ; put all 
together in a stew-pan, without any water, the juice of the 
tomatoes being sufficient without any other moisture. Cook 
slowly three and a half or four hours. This is a fine stew. 

* loin of Mutton. 

Season with pepper and salt, dust with flour, and place in a 
dripping-pan, with a teacup of hot water- roast it two hours in 



MEATS. 49 

a h^t oven, thicken the gravy with browaei flour, and serve it 
separately; baste frequently whilst it is cocking; serve with 
currant jelly. 

* Mutton Birds. 

Cut slices out of the leg half an inch thick; prepare a force- 
meat highly seasoned, spread it over each slice, fasten with 
skewers, brown nicely in hot drippings, cover with water, and 
stew slowly until tender all through ; they will take nearly two 
hours; lay them on a hot dish, and stir in the gravy brown flour 
to thicken it ; add two tablespoonsful of tomato catsup, give all 
a boil up, and pour over the meat. 

* Sheep's Kidneys. 

Procure six or eight kidneys, take off the skin which covers 
them, wash them in clean cold water, cut them in slices the third 
of an inch in thickness; melt in a frying-pan two ounces of 
butter, put the kidneys in the butter, season them with pepper 
and salt, stir in half a teaspoonful of flour, mix all well together, 
stir and toss about until the kidneys are beginning to brown„add 
half a wine-glass of Sherry wine, and a gill of broth, simmer a 
few minutes, and pour on nicely browned and crisp toast. A 
few raw mushrooms, chopped and added to the butter before you 
put the kidneys in, are an improvement. 

If you add mushrooms, simmer them (after washing them in 
cold water) in the butter fifteen minutes before you add the kid 
neys, and then simmer all together ten minutes longer. 

LAMB. 

For roasting, the hind or fore-quarter. 

For chops, the large end of the neck or tie loin. 

For frying, the liver in egg and cracker. 

For stewing, the neck or the shoulder. 

* Hind-Quarter Boasted. 

The hind-quarter of lamb is considered the best part; wash it 
clean, season with cayenne pepper and salt, and dust it with 
4 



50 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

flour ; lay it in a drippiDg-pan with a cup full ot hot water round 
it, roa,3t slowly two hours ; when done lay it on a hot dish, make 
a gravy with the drippings from the meat, a little browned flour, 
and boiling water, put a few spoonsful over the meat, and the 
rest in a gravy-boat; serve with mint sauce. 

* Fore-ftuarter, 

Season and roast the same as the hind-quarter; an hour and a 
half is sufficient to cook it; when you take it from the pan lay 
it on a hot dish ; with a sharp knife lift the shoulder up from 
the bones by cutting round it, but do not cut it entirely loose ; 
into this cavity put a piece of butter the size of an egg, the 
juice of a lemon, and a sprinkle of cayenne pepper; lay the 
shoulder back, and serve with a little of the juice over the top 
that ran from the meat; this is all th" ""avy you will need, and 
it IS a very fine one. 

* Shoulder of Lamb Broiled. 

Wash clean and wipe dry, put it on a gridiron over a clear 
fire, cover the top whilst it is broiling with an inverted dripping- 
pan, broil slowly first one side and then the other; when done 
lay it on a hot dish, butter and season both sides with cayenne 
pepper, and salt. 

* Leg of Lamb Stewed with Green Peas. 

Wash and wipe the lamb dry, season with salt and pepper, 
and dust with flour ; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with slices 
of bacon or salt pork, fry them until the fat is extracted, then 
take the crisp fat out, leaving in the clear grease, lay the leg in 
this, brown both sides and all around, then add enough cold 
water to nearly cover the lamb ; simmer gently for three-quarters 
of an hour ; have half a peck of young green peas ready shelled 
and washed, put them around the leg, keeping just enough water 
on them to simmer but not boil them, cook gently for half an 
hour or until the peas are thoroughly cooked but not broken , 
when done dust a very little flour in them, just enough to make 



MEATS. 51 

the gravy stick a little to the peas, or, as the French say, to 
mask thein, and serve the leg on a hot meat-dish with the peas 
abound it 

*Lamb Cutlets. 

TaEe chops from the neek or loin, flatten them with a chopper, 
dip each one in beaten yolk of egg, then roll them in either 
very fine bread crumbs or cracker dust which has been seasoned 
(pith pepper and salt, and fry a nice brown in drippings or lard ; 
make the fat boiling hot before you put the meat in it, garnish 
with parsley, and eat them with mushroom catsup or Worcester" 
shire sauce. 

Lamb's Liver. 

Cut it in slices half an inch in thickness, beat the yolks of 
two eggs, dip the slices of liver in the egg, cover them with 
cracker dust seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry them in hot 
drippings or half lard and half butter. 

* Neck or Shoulder of Lamb Stewed. 

Brown the lamb in drippings, season with pepper and salt, 
pour over it two quarts of cold water, and stew slowly an hour 
and a half or until tender, letting the water gradually stew 
away, then add a wine-glass of tomato catsup and a teaspoonful 
of browning, thicken with browned flour, pour the gravy over 
the meat and serve. 

* Mutton or Lamb Cutlets. 

Slices from the leg half an inch in thickness, broil them over 
a bright fire on a gridiron, turn them frequently : when done 
put them on a hot dish, season with pepper and salt, butter them 
plentifully and serve with current jelly. 

* To warm over Cold Mutton or Lamb. 

Cut in thin slices, season with pepper and salt, lay the slices 

in a stei7-pan with the remains of cold gravy, and two or three 

tablespoonsful of tomato catsup and simmer slowly until the 

meat is vW^ hot. If you have no gravy left over, put the bones 



52 CO OEER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

and trimmings into a stew-pan, cover with cold water, and boil 
them for an hour before you are ready to warm the meat, then 
strain through a cullender, thicken with browned flour, add the 
catsup, and lay in the meat. 

* Lamb's Kidneys. 

Cut the kidneys in small pieces; for six or eight kidneys, put 
in a stew-pan, butter the size of an egg, a wine-glass of water, a 
tablespoonful of flour, salt and pepper, a glass of wine, put the 
kidneys in the pan, stew them flve minutes, and serve in a hot 
covered dish. 

FORK 

* Leg of Pork Stuflfed and Roasted. 

Procure a leg of young pork weighing seven or eight pounds, 
wash it clean, score the skin across, so that it will all be marked 
out in slices; prepare a filling with a pint of fine bread-crumbs, 
seasoned with black pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of dried 
sage rubbed fine, two teaspoons of sweet marjoram, and one of 
sweet basil, an onion chopped fine, a bunch of parsley ditto, and 
a piece of butter the size of an egg melted and poured over, mix 
all well together, make an incision through the leg parallel with 
the bone, fill with the dressing, secure it with skewers, season 
the outside of the leg with pepper and salt, dust with flour, rub 
with fine sage, put it in a dripping-pan with a little hot water, 
roast two and a half hours, basting it frequently, when done, 
make a gravy with the drippings thickened with browned flour, 
add a little hot water, boil up, pour a little over the leg, serve 
the remainder in a sauce-boat. Serve with apple sauce. 

* Baked Ham. 

Wash a smoked ham very clean, put it in a large kettle with 
cold water, boil ^owly, according to weight, allowing fifteen 
minutes to every pound, take out the ham, remove the skin, trim 
off all the black and smoked parts, paint it all over with yolk 
of egg, sprinkle thickly with ver^' fine bread crumb^put it iu 



MEATS. 53 

the oven in a dripping-pan, baste it vo or three times with 
good cooking wine, and roast it nearly an hour, or until a fine 
brown all over, trim the knuckle with fringed writing paper 
and serve hot. If to be eaten cold, let the ham remain in the 
water it was boiled in until cold, then skin it and proceed as 
above. 

Boast Fig. 

A pig to roast whole should be at least four weeks old. Cut 
it open lengthwise, take out the entrails, wash the pig very clean, 
and let it lie in salt and water for twenty minutes to draw out 
the blood j wash very clean the liver and heart, and put them in 
a small stew-pan, season with pepper and salt, add a large onion, 
cut in quarters, and cover with cold water ; keep them boiling 
all the time you are preparing and roasting the pig. Make a filling 
of a quart of bread crumbs grated very fine, and seasoned with 
pepper and salt, three teaspoonsful of powdered sage leaves, two 
of sweet marjoram, a large onion chopped fine, a bunch of pars- 
ley ditto, and nearly a quarter of a pound of butter melted and 
poured over; stir all thoroughly together; take the pig from the 
salt and water, wash very clean in cold fresh water, wipe it dry 
inside and out, fill it with the dressing you have made, sew up 
the stomach, skewer the legs flat to the body, so that it will lie 
flat on them in the pan ; season the outside of the pig with 
pepper and salt, and dust it with flour ; set it in a dripping-pan 
with half a cup of hot water around it to keep it from burning, 
and roast it two hours and a half, basting it frequently with 
butter and hot water stirred together in a basin or bowl, which 
keep near you. When the heart and liver are perfectly tender, 
take them out with a skimmer, chop the heart and put it back, ' 
mash the liver with a heaping tablespoon of browned flour, moist- 
ening it with some of the gravy. When perfectly smooth, stir 
it in the saucepan with the heart, give a boil up, and after you 
have dished the pig, pour all into the dripping-pan, stir about 
and boil up again ; serve in a gravy-boat. 

When you carve the pig, cut off its head first and then sjjlit 
it down the back, and cut between the ribs to serve. Cut i Dund 



54 CO OEER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

the legs and take them off as you would the second joint of a 
fowl. Serve with applesauce. Eub some powdered sage on the 
outside of the pig with the pepper and salt, when you put it in 
the oven to roast. 

* Pork Steaks or Chops, 
Broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire. When done, put 
them on a hot dish, season with pepper and salt, and a very little 
powdered sage ; butter them plentifully and serve; or you may 
fry them in sweet lard, using very little, and first rubbing them 
on both sides with powdered sage, and seasoning them with 
cayenne pepper and salt, and dusting them with flour. After 
you dish them, thicken the gravy, add a little hot water, give a 
boil up, and pour over them. 

* Spare Ribs. 

Crack the bones through the middle, season with pepper and 
salt, rub with powdered sage, and roast in the oven about an 
hour; baste occasionally. Serve with apple-sauce. 

Sausage. 

To ten pounds of pork add four ounces of salt, and two ounces 
black pepper, with a heaping tablespoonful of finely pulverized 
sage leaves. 

Sausage, No. 2. 

To ten pounds of meat, three tablespoonfuls of salt, the same 
of powdered sage, one of black and one of red pepper. 

* Broiled Ham. 

Cut slices half an inch thick, pare off the skin, trim off all 
the brown fat from the underside of the slices, lay them on a 
gridiron over a bright fire ; when the fat is slightly brown turn 
over and cook the other side, a very few minutes will suffice; 
ham that is cooked too much becomes tough and dry, it should 
be juicy and tender; ham that is old and very salt should be 
stewed a few m'outes before either broiling or frying; lay the 



MEATS. 55 

slices on tlie bottom of a frying-pan, cover with cold water, sim- 
mer for five minutes, pour off the water, wipe dry on a clean 
towel, and proceed as above. When the ham is done lay it on a 
hot lish, butter slightly, ,and serve. 

* Fried Ham and Egg?. 
Cut slices half an inch thick, pare oflf the rind and trim off 
the smoked parts, lay them in the bottom of a clean dripping- 
pan ; if the ham has any fat on it it will not be necessary to add 
any ; fry until slightly brown on both sides, turning very often, 
lay the slices on a hot dish, break one egg at a time in the hot 
fat until your pan is full, fry slowly until the white is set, but 
not until the yolk is hard, separate them with a sharp knife, 
take them up with an egg-slice, and lay nicely on the slices of 
ham. 

* Stewed Ham. 

Cut a thin slice of ham, divide it in narrow strips two inches 
long by cutting the slice in half lengthwise, and then across 
again into strips ; pour boiling water on it, let it stand -until 
cold, repeat this again, then drain ofi' the water, put the ham 
into a frying-pan, stir it about until warm, add a bunch of 
chopped parsley, and a coflfeecup of cream, stew five minutes, 
and serve. 

* Scrapple. 

Procure a hog's head and two large livers ; if you cannot get 
hog's livers, one beef's liver; after the head has been thoroughly 
cleansed, put it over the fire with a handful of salt and plenty 
of cold water, put the liver in another vessel also with cold water, 
boil the head until the meat drops from the bones, and the liver 
until you can run a straw through it; then chop the liver until 
as fine as powder, throwing away the water it was boiled in ; 
remove all the bones from the head and chop that as for head 
cheese, put both head and liver back into the water the head 
was boiled in, having first strained it and put it back into the 
vessel it was boiled in ''it will require a very large pot or kettle,) 



56 COOKER Y FB OM EXPEBIENCB. 

season with almost or quite a pint ^f sage leaves rubbed fine, 
black pepper and salt to your taste, and you must season highly 
with both, as the meal which you add takes up a great deal of 
it ; when the seasoning is well stirred in, thicken with Indian 
meal and wheat flour in the proportion of two measures of 
Indian to one of flour, keeping the contents of your pot boiling 
all the time ; stir in with a long wooden or metal spoon ; when 
as thick as mush set it ofi" the fire, and dip out with a large 
dipper into the vessels you have prepared to hold it ; when cold 
set away and it will be ready for use next day. You must be 
careful to keep stirring all the time you are adding the meal, or 
the scrapple will burn. Cut in slices half an inch thick, and 
fry a nice brown ; measure the Indian meal and flour in a kitchen 
bowl. 

* Pig's Feet Stewed. 

Boil the feet until very tender, but not until the bones come 
out, take them out and drain them, lay in the bottom of a stew- 
pan thin slices of bacon or ham, lay the feet on them, season 
with a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley cut rather fine, a 
small onion sliced, and black pepper, cover with broth or stock, 
cover them closely, and bake in an oven three-quarters of an 
hour, thicken the gravy and pour over them. 

Hog's Head Cheese. 
Thoroughly clean the head, which must be split open, put it 
over the fire with plenty of cold water and a handful cf salt, 
boil until the bones drop out, it will require five or six hours, 
or perhaps longer, as it depends on the size of the head ; when 
done drain ofi' the broth, take out every particle of bone, put 
the meat in a chopping-bowl, season with plenty of pepper, red 
and black, half a teacup of sweet marjoram, the same of summer 
savory, the same of sage, a teaspoonful of powdered allspice, 
two of cloves, a saltspoonful of powdered mace, chop altogether 
as fine as possible, add half a pint of the broth, and the saae 
of sharp vinegar, pack in moulds, and when cold 3ut in tT a 
slices. 



MEATS. 57 

* Pork Tenderloins. 

Prepare a filliDg as for a leg of perk ; with a sharp, narrow- 
bladed knife, make an incision through the centre of the meat 
from one end to the other; the tenderloins should be cut in 
lengths of about a foot each ; fill with the dressing, secure the 
ends with little skewers, to prevent the filling from coming out, 
rub the outsides with powdered sage, pepper and salt, dust with 
flour, lay them side by side in a dripping-pan, put a little hot 
water around them, and roast in a hot oven about three-quarters 
of an hour, thicken the gravy, pour over them when you serve 
them. Baste often, with butter and hot water. This dish is 
as fine in flavor as poultry. 

* Pig's Feet in Jelly. 
Clean thoroughly two sets of pig's feet, put them over the 
fire in three quarts of cold water, boil them slowly four hours, 
or until the meat falls from the bones, strain through a cullen- 
der, return the broth to the pot and boil until reduced to a pint ; 
take all the bones from the feet, and cut the meat in small pieces, 
but do not chop it; season it with black and cayenne pepper and 
salt, a teaspoonful of powdered allspice, half an one of powdered 
cloves, and a pinch of powdered mace ; when the broth is re- 
duced add to it half a pint of sharp vinegar, put in the meat, 
let it simmer two or three minutes, then pour into moulds ; it 
will be ready for use next day — turn out and serve whole, or 
cut in thin slices before it goes to the table. If in a form it is 
a pretty dish to set on whole, to be cut at the table. 

* Baked Pork and Beans. 

One quart of small white beans ; two pounds of pickled pork ; 
put the beans on the fire in three or four quarts of cold water, 
let them come nearly to a boil, set them off the fire and let them 
cool : when nearly cold strain ofi' the water and replenish with 
the same quantity as at first, of cold water, when they come to 
a boil, have the pork well washed and put it in with the beans, 
and boil it for half or three-quarters of an hour then take out 



58 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

the pork, score it across the top ; when the beans are tender, 
strain them from the water, put the pork in a baking-dish, pour 
the beans round it j take about a pint of the water they were 
boiled in ; stir in it two tablespoonsful of molassee, pour it Dver 
the beans, and bake an hour in a hot oven. If the water has 
much grease on it skim it off, before adding the molasses. 

* Pig's Feet Soused. 

The feet must be singed with burning paper, as you would do 
a chicken ; then scrape them clean, scald them, wash again in 
cold water, and put them on the fire in a stew-pan or pot, cover 
them with cold water, add a tablespoonful of salt, and boil them 
for three or four hours, or longer, if necessary, until the meat 
drops from the bones. When they are done, there should be 
very little water on them, as you must only keep enough on 
them to prevent their sticking to the bottom of the vessel and 
burning. When the feet are done, take them out with a perfo- 
rated skimmer, lay them on a dish whilst you pick out the 
bones. When this is done, have ready a clean stone jar or pot, 
put in a layer of the meat, season with plenty of pepper and 
salt and a few slices of onion ; then another layer of meat, 
pepper, salt and onion, until all is in the vessel ; strain the 
broth they were boiled in, add to it as much good cider-vinegar 
as you have broth, and pour over the feet, covering them with 
it. Set aside to cool; then put them in a cold place, and they 
will be ready to use next day. Put the souse, when you are 
ready for it, into a dripping-pan ; dust a little flour over it, and 
bake it an hour, more or less, according to the heat of the oven ; 
it must be a nice brown. 

* Roast Chine of Pork. 

Score the skin, rub the pork all over with pulverized sage, 
season with cayenne pepper and salt, and dust with flour ; put it 
in a dripping-pan, with a little hot water, roast it in a hot oven, 
allowing about twenty minutes to a pound, or a little more, if 
the oven is not very i ot. When done, ser\ e on a hot dish 



MEATS. 59 

thicken the gravy with flour, give a boil up, add a little more 
water, and serve separately. Baste the pork often. 

* Frizzled Ham. 

Shave uncooked ham as thin as paper, fat and lean together; 
put in a frying-pan over a quick fire ; stir all the time until it 
begins to look brown and curl up ; add two tablespoons of boiling 
water, give a boil up and serve. 

* Ham Sandwiches. 

Cut slices of cold boiled or baked ham, chop very fine, fat and 
lean together; add mixed or French mustard to your taste, or 
in the proportion of a teaspoonful to a small bowl of chopped 
meat ; chop this in well ; cut thin slices of bread or rolls split 
in half, butter them, and with a broad-bladed knife spread a 
layer of the ham on a slice, and place over it another slice 
which has also been buttered. Or you may put very thin slices 
of cold ham, slightly spread with mustard, between the slices 
of bread and butter. 

* Leg of Pork Corned. 

Take a leg of young pork, weighing five or six pounds; let it 
lie in pickle two weeks ; take it out, wash very clean, put it 
over the fire in cold water, and boil it twenty minutes for every 
pound, and serve it with mashed turnips or parsnips. Very 
nice either hot or cold. 

VEAL. 

For soup — the knuckle, feet, the head and the breast. 
For roasting — the loin, the breast and the fillet. 
For frying — cutlets from the leg, and the sweetbreads. 
For stewing — the knuckle, the sinewy part of the leg and the 
sweetbreads. 

For baking — the head. 

* To Roast a Loin of Veal. 

Season with pepper, salt, and dust with flour; to be roasted 
slowly for two and a half houri^ "n a dripping-pan, with a little 



60 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

water under it. Baste it frequently ; and when done, thicken 
the gravy with a little flour. 

* FiUet of Veal. 

The fillet is the thick end of the leg ; take the bone from the 
centre and prepare a filling as follows : Grate very fine a pint 
of bread crumbs, add to them black pepper, salt, a teaspoonfnl 
of sweet marjoram, half an one of sweet basil, half a small 
onion chopped very fine, a bunch of parsley ditto, a saltspoonful 
of grated nutmeg, the same of lemon-peel grated, and stir all 
well together ; melt in a sauce-pan a piece of butter the size 
of an egg and pour over the crumbs, stirring it through until 
every crumb has its share ; break an egg on this, and mix that 
in well ; fill up the place you took the bone from ; then with a 
sharp knife make deep incisions through the meat and around 
it, and fill them with the remainder of the dressing ; season the 
meat on the outside with pepper and salt, dust it with flour, 
cover the top of it with a sheet of writing-paper well buttered ; 
skewer the meat in a nice round shape ; if necessary, tie it 
around the side with a broad tape ; cover the bottom of the 
stew-pan with thin slices of pickled pork, lay the meat on them, 
pour around it half a pint of boiling water, cover closely and set 
in the oven ; baste it occasionally, removing the paper to do so. 
and replacing it again ; bake slowly three hours. As the water 
dries away, replenish it from a kettle of boiling water. When 
the fillet is done, remove the string and skewers, lay it on a hot 
dish, thicken the gravy with browned flour ; if not enough, add 
water, pour a little over the meat, and serve the remainder in a 
sauce or gravy-boat. 

Saked Calf s Head. 

When you purchase the head, get your butcher to split it 
open, take out the eyes, and chop the nose off; lay it in cold 
water with a handful of salt for half an hour, change the water, 
wash and cleanse the head thoroughly, take out the brains, 
remove al, the skin and blood, and tie them up in a cloth, 



MEATS. 61 

and put them with the head in a large pot of boiling water, with 
a handful of salt; boil the head until you can twist the jaw-bone 
out of the meat, which will be in a little over two hours. The 
brains will be done in half an hour, and must be taken out. 
Then remove the head, take out all the bones, but keep it as 
nearly whole as you can ; butter a deep baking-dish, lay the 
brains in the middle of it, spreading them a little, put the head 
on them, season it plentifully with powdered cloves, pepper and 
salt, stick pieces of butter rolled in flour wherever you find a 
crack or opening, dust with flour, mix in a bowl half a pint of 
good cooking wine, and the same of the broth the head was 
boiled in, and pour over the head; set it in a hot oven and bake 
it about three-quarters of an hour, or until it is very brown, 
basting it several times. You may add a little grated nutmeg over 
the meat with the other seasoning, but it must not predominate. 
It is nicer to be baked in a dish that you can send it to table in, 
though if you prefer it, you may remove it to a dish and serve. 
Be careful to retain the shape of the head as nearly as possible 
when you place it in the baking-dish. 

* Knuckle of Veal Stewed. 

Cut it in four or five pieces, put it over the fire in a sauce-pan 
with just enough water to cover it, season with pepper and salt, 
stew until perfectly tender and the water reduced one-half; then 
add to it three ounces of butter rubbed to a paste, with a table- 
spoon heaping full of flour, a bunch of parsley chopped fine, and 
a coffeecup full of rich cream ; give all one boil up and serve. 
This is as nice as chicken. 

* Veal Cutlets. 

Have about two and a half pounds cut in slices half an inch 
thick, from the best and thick end of the leg of veal; cut the 
meat in pieces the size of a large oyster ; beat the yolks of two 
eggs in a large bowl, put the pieces of veal all in the egg, stir it 
around until all the egg is taken up by the veal, then roll each 
piece in cracker dust whicl has been seasoned ^ith pepper and 



H2 CO OKEB Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

ialt, and fry in butter and lard, or all lard if it is very nice. 
Serve the cutlets in a flat dish, thicken the remains of the lard 
in the pan with browned flour, add a little water, and serve in a 
gravy-boat. 

* Veal Pie. 
For this purpose, the lower end of the neck, .r chops cut from 
the loin or leg may be used ; season the pieces of meat with 
pepper and salt, dust them with flour, have some butter and lard 
mixed, make it hot over the fire, lay in the meat, brown on both 
sides, add half a teacup of water, and let the meat simmer for 
fifteen or twenty minutes j take it out to cool ; prepare a crust, 
line a deep dish (one that has a flat edge is the best), lay in the 
veal with strips of pickled pork over each layer, pour over the 
gravy ; if not enough to cover the meat, add water, dust flour 
over each layer as you place them, cover with a crust, and jake 
three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven. 

* Calf's Head Scalloped. 
Cleanse the head thoroughly, let it lie in cold water with a 
handful of salt to draw out the blood, then remove the brain, 
take out all the skins, wash very clean, and tie them up in a 
clean cloth, put them with the head into a pot of boiling water, 
with a tablespoonful of salt ; boil the head two hours, the brains 
will be done in half an hour, when you must take them out; 
take the meat from the bones and cut it into small pieces but do 
not chop it, stir the brains through the meat, and season all 
together with pepper and salt to taste, a teaspoonful of sweet 
marjoram dried and rubbed fine, a bunch of parsley chopped, a 
piece of onion the size of a hickory-nut also chopped fine, a 
saltspoonful of grated nutmeg ; stir these all well together in a 
large bowl ; butter a baking-dish, using as much butter as you 
can, covering it well, put the meat in, cover the top with grated 
bread-crumbs, sprinkling a little pepper and salt over them ; mix 
in a bowl half a tumbler of good cooking wine, and the same 
quantity of the broth the head was boiled in, put little pieces 
of butter over the top of the crumbs, pour over the wine and 



MTU ATS. 63 

ISroth, taking caro (,o wet all the crumbs with it, and bake in 
quick oven about three-quarters of an hour. You may add two 
beaten eggs to the meat, and it will be improved by it. 

* Calf s Head Fricasseed. 
Prepare and boil the head and brains as for scallop, take the 
bones all out, and cut the meat into pieces half the size of an 
egg; stir the brains through the meat, season with pepper and 
salt, a very little grate of nutmeg and a bunch of parsley chopped 
fine ; put all in a stew-pan with a teacup of the broth the head 
was boiled in ; let this heat but not boil, whilst it is warming ; 
rub four ounces of butter to a paste ith a tablespoonful of 
flour, stir this through the meat, and add a coffeecup of cream 
or very rich milk, give all a boil up, and serve. 

* Blanquette of Veal. 
Cut two thick slices from the best end of a leg of veal, they 
should be an inch in thickness; divide each slice into six or eight 
pieces, they should be about the size of a large oyster ; season 
the meat with pepper and salt, and lay it in a stew-pan, with a 
very little water, not enough to cover the top of the meat, stew 
gently, turning often, until the meat is very tender, replenishing 
the water from a kettle as it cooks away, but never enough to 
cover the meat; when perfectly tender, add a bunch of parsley 
chopped, two blades of mace, and a piece of onion half the size 
of a small nutmeg, also chopped, stew again for three minutes ; 
rub to a paste a piece of butter the size of an egg and a table- 
spoonful of flour, stir this in, and add a large coffeecup of 
cream ; give one boil up, and serve. 

* Breast of Veal. 

Season with pepper and salt and dust with flour, put it in a 
dripping-pan with a little water, and roast ic, allowing twenty 
minutes to the pound ; when done, make a gravy with the drip- 
pings which have run from the meat, with a little brown flour 
for thickening and half a teacup of hot water, and serve with a 



64 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

few spoonsful of the gravy over the meat, the remainder in a 
sauce-boat. Some persons stuff this part of the veal ; to do so, 
run a sharp knife horizoQtally between the meat and the bones, 
make a filling as for the fillet, push it in the place you have cut, 
skewer it in, and season and roast. 

* Calf's Liver with Cream. 

, Wash the liver whole, wipe it dry and cut it in slices half an 
inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and dust with flour j 
melt in a frying-pan a tablespoonful of butter or very nice drip- 
pings, lay in the slices j,nd fry them a light brown ; take the 
frying-pan from the fire and cut the liver into pieces half an 
inch square ; stir into them a teaspoonful of fiour and a coffee- 
cup of rich cream ; put back on the fire, give one boil up, stir- 
ring all the time, and serve. A very nice relish for breakfast 
or supper. 

* Calf's Liver with Mushrooms. 

Wash and wipe the liver, cut it in slices half an inch thick ; 
season with pepper and salt and dust with flour, fry in a little 
butter a light brown, take out the liver with a perforated skim- 
mer, and place it where it will keep warm, but not cook or dry; 
put in the frying-pan that you took the liver from, a half a tea- 
cup of boiling water, wash clean a quart of mushrooms, drain 
them and put them in the pan, and stew twenty minutes, or 
until tender ; chop a bunch of parsley and add to them ; give 
a boil up and then stir in the liver, thicken with a teaspoon of 
flour mixed into a paste, stew five minutes and serve. You may 
add a little cayenne pepper when you put the liver in the pan, 
and a little more salt, if needed. 

* Sweetbreads Larded. 

Wash the sweetbreads and put them in a sauce-pan with boil- 
ing water ; cook them fifteen minutes, or until they are white 
and firm ; lay them on a dish to cool ; cut strips of che fat of 
pickled pork a quarter of an inch square and about four inches 
long, draw these through the sweetbreads, leaving half an inch 



MEATS. 65 

outside at both ends ; brown them in butter, turning them until 
a light brown on every side ; if served with green peas, lay 
them round a dish and serve the peas in the centre. 

* Fried Sweetbreads, No. 1. 

Lay them in cold water for an hour; put in a stew-pan a pint 
of water, a tablespoonful of vinegar, a few sUces of onion, six 
peppercorns, two cloves, and a bunch of parsley and thyme ; 
boil all together for three minutes, then put in the sweetbreads, 
boil them one minute ; take them out, throw them into cold 
water for half an ho it ; lay them on a board, cover them with 
a plate, set a weight on them for a few minutes. FoT six sweet- 
breads put in a pan a quarter of a pound of butter, melt it with 
a heaping teaspoonful of flour, lay in the sweetbreads, cover 
them with a good broth, and simmer for fifteen or twenty 
minutes, or until the broth has stewed away somewhat ; then 
add pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of browning, boil up and 
serve. 

* Fried Sweetbreads, No. 2. 

Parboil the sweetbreads fifteen minutes, split each one hori- 
zontally in half, season them with pepper, salt and a tiny grate 
of nutmeg ; melt in a frying-pan three ounces of butter, lay the 
sweetbreads in, fry a light brown ; when done, thicken the 
butter with brown flour, add two teaspoons of burnt sugar and 
a little hot water ; boil up, pour over the sweetbreads and serve. 

* Sweetbreads with Mushrooms. 

Blanch the sweetbreads for fifteen minutes; for six large 
sweetbreads, chop half a can of mushrooms ; chop the sweet- 
breads and mix with the mushrooms, throw in half a dozen 
mufhrooms without chopping ; put all in a stew-pan with pepper, 
salt, two tablespoonsful of hot water and three ounces of butter ; 
simmer twenty minutes, then add half a teacup of cream or 
now loilk, with two teaspoons of flour mixed in it; bull up and 
serve. This is a very fine disj . 
5 



«6 COOKERY PltOM EXPERIENCE. 

* Sweetbreads Stewed. 

Wash the sweetbreads and blanch them in boiling water for 
a few minutes only, take them out and lay them in cold water 
for ten minutes ; then put them in a sauce-pan with broth 
enough to cover them, stew until tender ; add to them a piece 
of butter the size of an egg mixed to a paste with a tablespoonful 
of flour, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a large coffee-cup of 
cream ; boil three minutes and serve. 

* Sweetbreads Broiled. 

Wash them and blanch for five minutes in boiling water, lay 
them between the wires of an oyster-broiler, over a bright fire ; 
turn them very often until a light brown, brush over them a 
little melted butter whenever you turn them j season them 
when done with black pepper, salt, and a small piece of butter 
to each sweetbread, and serve on a hot dish. 

* Knnckle of Veal Rag^out. 

Cut the meat all off the knuckle, slice it half an inch thick, 
pepper, salt and flour them, fry them a light brown in nice drip- 
pings ; crack the bone and break it into several pieces, and put 
it with the trimmings into a stew-pan, with an onion, a head of 
celery, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and two blades of mace; 
pour cold water on them to cover, cover the pot closely and stew 
gently for two hours ; then strain it, rub a piece of butter the 
size of an egg to a paste with a tablespoon of browned flour, 
stir it in, with a tablespoon of tomato catsup, a glass of wine 
and the juice of a lemon ; lay in the meat, give all a boil up 
and serve. 

* Calf's Head Fried. 

Prepare the head and brains as for scallop, put the head only 
in a pot of boiling water with a tablespoonful of salt ; when the 
head has been boiling an hour and a half, put the brains in tied 
up in a cloth ; continue to boil for another half hour, then take 
out the head, leaving the brains remaining in the broth, which 
continue to simmer ; take the meat from t^e tones, and out it 



MEATS. 67 

in pieces the size of a large oyster, but not futting up the tongue, 
throw ti back into the brotli with the brains. Beat up the yolks 
of two eggs, dip the meat in the egg, and then cover with 
cracker dust which you have seasoned with pepper, salt, and a 
little grated nutmeg (uery little), and fry a nice brown in hot 
drippings or half butter and half lard ; when the meat has been 
browned on one side and turned, prepare the brains as follows : 
take them from the cloth, have ready two hard boiled eggs, chop 
them very fine, mash the brains in a bowl with a silver or 
wooden spoon, stir in the egg, beating it well together, season 
with pepper, salt and a little grated nutmeg ; now take out the 
tongue, take off the skin, lay it on a small oval dish, dress the 
brains around it ; by this time the meat will be done ; serve it 
on a hot dish, and send all in together. 

CaK's Liver. 

Wash the liver before you slice it, and wipe it dry ; then cut 
it in slices half an inch thick, season them with pepper and salt, 
and dust them with flour ; melt in a frying-pan a little good 
drippings or very nice lard, when hot lay in the slices, and fry 
very slowly until quite brown on both sides, take out the liver 
and lay the slices side by side on a hot dish ; dust some flour 
into the frying-pan, shake it about until well mixed with tho, 
grease, add a little hot water, boil up and pour over the liver. 

* Baked Ham and Veal. 

Chop finely two pounds of lean veal, the same of ham, keep- 
ing them separate, season the veal only with pepper and salt to 
your taste, then add half a saltspoon of grated nutmeg, the 
same of lemon-peel grated, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
the same of sweet marjoram, melt a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, pour over and stir all thoroughly together ; butter a 
large bowl, put in the bottom a layer of the veal, pressed closely, 
then a layer of ham, each about half an inch in thickness, then 
veal again, and ham, and so on until you have the bowl full; 
cover closely, and bake an hour and a quarter ; when cold turn 



68 COOKERY FROM EXI ^RIENCE. 

out and cut thin slices ; this is very nice as a relish for tea or 
for luncheon. 

Another Way. 

Three pounds of veal, and two of lean fresh pork chopped 
finely, ten crackers rolled fine and sifted, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, the same of thyme dried and rubbed or 
chopped when freshly gathered, and the same of summer savory ; 
melt three ounces of butter and pour over, mix all well together, 
add salt and pepper to your taste, and a small onion chopped ; 
beat six eggs, stir them through, and bake slowly an hour and 
a half; when cold, cut in thin slices, garnish with parsley, and 
use for lunch or tea. Bake in a large bowl, packed as closely 
as possible. 

* Bewitched Veal. 

Three pounds of uncooked veal minced very fine, a quarter 
of a pound of salt pork or cold boiled ham ditto ; roll very fine 
crackers to make a small teacupful, beat up three eggs and mix 
with the crackers, stir these all together, and add three teaspoons 
of salt, two of black pepper and one of sweet marjoram dried 
and rubbed fine ; knead this all well together, butter large-sized 
bowls, press it down very tight in them, cover closely and bake, 
if in two, an hour and a half; to be cut in thin slices when 
cold. This is a very nice relish for tea or for picnics ; to be 
eaten with walnut or tomato catsup or Worcestershire sauce. 

* Curry of Tripe. 

Put in a stew-pan two ounces of butter, cut into it two large 
onions, and stir over the fire until brown, add to it a pint of 
broth, made from any bones you may have ; mix to a smooth 
paste two tablespoon sful of curry powder, and stir it in the 
broth; have ready boiled two pounds of tiipe, out it in small 
pieces, stir it in the broth, and simmer slowly for an hour ; if 
not thick enough add a little browned flour, give a boil up and 
serve with boiled rice. 

* Veal Curry. 

Two pounds of meat from the leg or breast of veal ; put it 
in a frying-pan with a little salt, and two ounces of butter, let it 



MEATS. 69 

bnwn slightly on joth sides, cut into it a large onion, and add 
a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a pint of broth made 
by boiling the bones and trimmings of the veal in a little water 
an hour and a half before you put the veal on the fire ; strain 
the broth over the veal ; mix to a smooth paste a tablespoonful 
and a half of curry powder with a little cold water, add it to 
the broth, turn the meat about in it, until thoroughly mixed, 
and set it where it will simmer slowly for an hour and a half; 
add a little browned flour, give a boil up and serve with boiled 
rice. The veal for curry should be cut in slices half an inch 
thick and kept entire. 

Two slices from the leg will weigh about two pounds. 

Breast of Veal StuflSed. 

Take out all the bones, put them in a stew-pan with cold 
water and simmer them for a broth ; make a filling of a quart 
of bread crumbs rubbed very fine, season with pepper and salt, 
a teaspoon heaping full of sweet marjoram, half an one of 
sweet basil, a small onion chopped fine, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, half a saltspoon of grated lemon-peel, the 
same of nutmeg, a beaten egg, and a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, melted and poured over, mix all well together, spread 
over the veal, leaving an inch all round the outside, roll it 
tightly and secure it with strings or skewers, put it in a stew- 
pan, season with pepper and salt, pour around it the broth from 
the bones, set it in the oven covered closely, baste very fre- 
quently, stew until tender, thicken the gravy with browned 
flour, pour over and serve. This will require about an hour and 
a half to cook. 

* leg of Veal Salted. 

Prepare a pickle as for corned beef, lay the leg in for three 
weeks, then hang it in a dry place, and in a few days it will be 
ready for use : shave off very thin slices, melt a little butter in 
a frying-pan, put in the veal and stir it about until cooked, 
which will be in a few minutes, dust with flour, add half a tea- 
cup of cream, give a boil up, and serve ; this is a very nice 



VO coo KURT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

relish for breakfast or tea in the country, where you cannot 
always procure a variety. 

* Veal and Ham Fatties. 
Prepare half a pound of half pufl paste, roll it out a quarter 
of an inch in thickness, cut it into as many squares as you have 
patty-pans, cover them, trim round and lay in each a piece of 
bread an inch thick, and nearly as large round as the inside 
of your patty-pan, cover them with crust rolled the same thick- 
ness as that on the bottom, wet the edge of the under crust 
before you lay the lid on, press it around to make it stick, and 
bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven ; then cut a round piece out 
of the lid, take out the bread, and fill them with the veal and 
ham prepared as follows : _Chop half a pound of cold roast veal, 
half the quantity of cold boiled or raw ham, put it together into 
a stew-pan, with two ounces of butter, two teaspoonsful of flour, 
a gill of cream, half a gill of broth, a little grated nutmeg, pep- 
per and a very little salt if needed, and a little chopped parsley, 
stew over the fire about six or eight minutes, stirring all the 
time J then fill the patties and serve. 

Veal and Ham Pie, 

Take two pounds of veal cutlet, cut them in thin slices half the 
size of your hand, and one pound of either raw or cold boiled 
ham cut the same way, line a deep dish with the crust for meat 
pies, put in the bottom a layer of the veal, season with pepper 
and a very little salt, slice a hard-boiled egg and spread over, 
strew over the top little pieces of butter, dust -with flour lightly, 
then put a layer of the ham, and on that a layer half an inch 
thick of veal force-meat, then another layer of the veal, sea- 
soned as before, ham and force meat ; pour over all a cofieecup 
full of broth made from the trimmings of the veal, or what ia 
better, the same of cold veal gravy ; cover with crust, ornament 
the centre with leaves cut out of the paste, and bake slowly 
nearly two hours : cover with thick paper when brown enough 
The ban: for this pie should be cut very tbvn 



POULTKY AND GAME. 



* Eoast Turkey. 
Singe the turkey with burning paper, pick out all the pen- 
feathers, wash it clean and wipe it dry ; then draw out the 
entrails, and wash the inside of the bird with several waters ; 
prepare a filling as follows : bread-crumbs sufficient to fill it 
loosely (it should never be packed in any kind of poultry or 
birds), season with half a teaspoonful of sweet basil, one of 
sweet marjoram, an onion chopped very fine and stewed for five 
minutes in a quarter of a pound of butter, which pour over; 
pepper and salt, and if convenient two dozen oysters chopped 
fine, fill the bird with this, reserving a little to put in where the 
craw came from, put the ends of the legs through the opening 
you made when you drew it, letting the joint come just through 
the vent, turn the wings back and run a skewer across through 
them, securing it with a string, skewer the legs in the same way, 
season the outside of the turkey with pepper and salt, dust with 
flour, and place in a dripping-pan, pour round it a cup of water. 
If the turkey is a very large one it will require three hours, one 
of ten pounds will roast in two hours, and a small one in an 
hour and a half; baste it frequently. For the gravy, when you 
first draw the turkey, put the liver, gizzard, end of the wings, 
and a piece of the neck, and the heart into a stew-pan, with 
half a large onion cut in two, pepper and salt, cover with cold 
water and simmer for several hours ; when perfectly tender, take 
out the liver and gizzard, chop the latter and put it back, rub 
the liver to a smooth pas 3 with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg 
and a piece of butter as argc as a walnut, moisten with sotue 



'2 &00 KEB Y FROM EXPL RIENCK 

of the broth, add a heaping tablespoon of flour, stir this into 
the sauce-pan, boil up once, when you dish the turkey, pour the 
contents of the sauce-pan into the dripping-pan, stir it round 
until brown, pour a few spoonsful over the turkey after you 
have removed the skewers and strings, and serve the rest in a 
gravy-boat. 

* Boiled Turkey. 

Prepare the turkey as for roasting, make a filling of bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of sweet 
marjoram, half an one of sweet basil, three ounces of melted 
butter, and twenty-five raw oysters chopped and poured in with 
a few spoonsful of their juice, mix thoroughly, and fill the turkey 
but do not pack it, sew up the place you filled it through, truss 
the legs and wings as for roasting, and put it in a large meat- 
boiler, with a tablespoonful of salt, and cover with boiling water ; 
keep a kettle of boiling water to replenish with, and allow fifteen 
minutes to every pound of turkey. If you put oysters in the 
filling serve with egg-sauce, as oyster-sauce destroys the taste 
of the seasoning, if you omit the oysters in the filling put a 
small chopped onion in the place of them, and serve with oystei- 
sauce. 

Jiagout of Cold Eoast Turkey. 

Cut ofi' the meat from the bones in as large slices as it will 
allow, and quite thin, put any cold gravy left from the roast, 
into a sauce-pan, if not enough to form the sauce, add butter 
rubbed to a paste with a tablespoonful of brown flour, half a pint 
of water, season the meat with pepper, salt, and half a saltspoon 
of powdered mace, or a blade of mace in the gravy, and two 
tablespoons of tomato catsup, or mushroom if preferred, put in 
the cold fowl, let it simmer gently for five minutes, then add a 
tablespoon of lemon juice and a glass of wine, boil up and serve. 

Another way. 
Cut the meat from the bones as above, bi«ak up the bones, 
put them in a stew-pan, with cold water to cover them, boii 
them an hour, strain out the bones ; season the meat with pep- 



POm TRY AND GAME. 73 

per, salt, a very little grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, add it to the broth, and when hot stir in a tablespoonful 
of flour and the yolk of an egg mixed in half a cup of rich 
cream, add a piece of butter the size of an egg, stir over the 
fire until it thickens, and serve; add any cold gravy you may 
have and leave out a little of the water. There should be very 
little broth. 

* Boned Turkey. 
Singe the turkey, draw it, wash it clean, wipe dry, and lay it 
on a clean cloth; then with a sharp knife and your fingers take the 
bones from the legs and thighs, twisting and breaking the joints; 
the same with the wings, then slit the bird up the back from 
the neck to the rump, and with the knife and your fingers de- 
tach the meat from the bones, slowly and gradually, until you 
can draw out the whole carcass; chop very fine two pounds of 
lean ham, grate two quarts of stale bread crumbs, mix the ham 
well through them, and add an onion chopped very fine, a table- 
spoonful of chopped parsley, two teaspoonsful of sweet marjoram, 
one of sweet basil, half a saltspoonful of grated lemon-peel, the 
same of nutmeg, four hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a small 
teaspoonful of black pepper, and six ounces of melted butter, 
mix all well together, fill the body of the bird and sew it up the 
back, make it as nearly as possible the shape it was before you 
boned it, the body must be stuffed very tightly to do this, then 
put some of the dressing in the legs and wings where you re- 
moved the bones, truss it and secure it with the skewers so that 
the filling will not fall out, season the outside of the bird, and 
roast it slowly a quarter of an hour for every pound, basting it 
frequently, and covering with buttered paper if getting too 
brown. Prepare a jelly as follows : have ready three or four 
quarts of stock, that from boiled chickens is the best, from which 
you have taken all the fat, bring it to a boil ; whisk the whites 
and shells of two eggs in a basin with half a pint of cold water, 
stir this in the stock, bring it to a boil again, strain through a 
clean cloth, and add two boxes of Cox's gelatine that has been 
soaked in cold water to cover, for an hcur, stir this in untL 



74 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

thoroughly dissolved, then lay the turkey breast down in a deep 
pan or mould, pour the jelly around and over it and set in a 
cool place for twenty-four hours, turn it out on a large dish, breast 
upwards, and garnish and serve. 

* Koast Chickens. 

Prepare the chickens by singeing, drawing and washing very 
clean in several waters, grate a little over a pint of bread crumbs 
for each chicken, season with pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram, and half a one of sweet basil, an onion chopped 
very fine, and a bunch of parsley the same ; melt three ounces 
of butter, and pour over, mix thoroughly, beat an egg and mix 
it well through, fill the chickens, truss them the same as turkey, 
season with pepper and salt, and dust with flour, lay them 
across a dripping-pan, with a little water around them, roast in 
a hot oven, allowing an hour and a half if large, and less time 
if very young ; baste them frequently ; for the gravy, put in a 
stew-pan, the ends of the neck, the gizzards and hearts, an onion 
cut in half, pepper and salt, and cover with cold water, simmer 
for three hours at least ; put them on the fire as soon as the 
poultry is drawn, and let them cook all the time the fowls are 
preparing; when done, chop the gizzards and put them back; 
rub the livers to a paste with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg and 
SI heaping tablespoon of flour, moistening with the fat part of the 
broth the giblets were cooked in, or a little from the dripping- 
pan ; stir to a smooth paste, and add it to the contents of the 
stew-pan ; give a boil up, and when the chickens are dished, 
pour all in the dripping-pan, stir round, boil up and serve ; put 
a few spoonsful over the fowls, the remainder in a gravy-boat. 

* Boiled Chickens- 
Prepare and fill them the same as boiled turkey, and serve in 

the same way. If there are oysters in the filling, serve with 
drawn butter made with a little of the broth, butter the size of 
an egg and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and the same of 
flour. Tf you omit the oysters in the filling, serve with oyster 
sauce. Egg-sauce is also a nice accompaniment for boiled fowlc 



POULTRY AND GAME. 75 

* A Brown Fricassee of Chicken. 

Singe, wash and draw the ohioktuis, and carve them neatly 
into eleven pieces — the wings (2), the legs (4), the breast 
divided across the middle (2), the side-bones one, with the back 
(^2), and the neck and ribs (1) ; wash very clean and lay in the 
bottom of a frying-pan, with a very little water around them, 
having first seasoned them with pepper and salt; simmer slowly 
for half an hour, turning them frequently, and keeping just 
enough water to them to prevent their burning ; when nearly 
tender enough, allow the water to boil away until the pan is 
almost dry; then add a quarter of a pound of butter, and 
brown them in this. When every piece is a nice brown, stir in 
a tablespoonful of browned flour, mixed to a paste with cold 
milk ; if too thick, add a little more milk and a tablespoonful 
of chopped parsley ; boil up and serve. 

* White Fricassee. 

Prepare and divide the chickens as for a brown fricassee, 
season with pepper and salt, and put them in a stew-pan, with 
cold water to cover them about an inch over the top ; simmer oi 
stew them gently until tender ; if they are young chickens, an 
hour (vill be sufficient time to cook them; if older, they will 
take longer ; as they get tender, allow the water to stew away 
until when done there should not be more than a teacupful left 
in the vessel; take out the pieces of chicken, lay them in a cul- 
lender to drain, setting it on a plate in the oven to keep hot, stir 
into the broth a tablespoonful of flour rubbed to a paste with 
butter the size of an egg, a bunch of parsley chopped, and a 
coffeecup of cream ; give all a boil up, put the chicken in this, 
simmer five minutes, and serve the chicken on % hot dish, with 
the gravy poured over. 

* Chicken Pie. 

Prepare the chickens, and divide them as for a fricassee ; put 
the giblets in a sauce-pan with cold water and stew them until 
nearly done, then lay the chicken in with them, season with 
pepper and salt, and simmer for twenty minutes ; take all out 



76 CO OKER Y FJR OM EXPERIENCE. 

with a perforated skimmer, lay on a dish to cool ; make a gravy 
of the broth by adding a tablespoonful of flour mixed to a paste 
with a little cold water, the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley : give a boil 
up and set aside j make a "good crust, line a deep baking-dish 
with it, have half a pound of pickled pork washed and cut in 
strips half an inch square ; place a layer of chicken and a few 
strips of pork, season with a little pepper and one grate of nut- 
meg, moisten with a few spoonsful of the gravy ; then another 
layer of chicken and pork, seasoned as before, until all is in the 
dish ; pour the remainder of the gravy over the chicken, scatter 
a few lumps of butter over the top, cover with crust, cut a few 
little incisions in the lid, and bake slowly nearly an hour. 

* Chicken Pot-pie. 

Prepare the chicken as above, but do not cook it j make a 
crust of three pints of flour, cut through it with a knife a teacup 
of lard, add a teaspoon of salt and cold water enough to make a 
stiff dough, roll out twice, the last time not quite half an inch 
thick ; butter the inside of a smooth round-bottomed pot, line it 
withcrust, lay on this a few strips of pickled pork, then a layer of 
chicken, and two potatoes which have been peeled, washed and 
cut in quarters ; season with pepper, a little salt (as the pork is 
salt), and a dust of flour ; then more pork, chicken, two more 
potatoes, and season as before. You may also add to each layer 
a few little squares of crust. Proceed in this way until the pot 
is full, pour over boiling water to cover, put a crust over all, 
cover closely and set in the oven ; cook very slowly for an hour 
and a half; add water occasionally, if not covered. When you 
roll out the top crust, make several incisions across it, so that 
you can see how it is cooking, and add water, if necessary; 
when the pie is nearly done, take off the lid of the pot for a few 
minutes, that the crust may brown ; take out the pie careinilly 
with a skimmer, and lay neatly on a dish with the top «rrusf 
over the chicken. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 77 

* Braised Chicken. 

Prepare the chicken and truss it as for boiling, but do not 
sfufiF i( ; lay slices of pickled pork or bacon on the bottom of 
a strtfw-pan, put the chicken on the bacon with the back down ; 
Bcrape and wash a small carrot, cut it in thick slices ; add an onion 
peeled and cut up, a head of celery the same, a bunch of thyme 
ind parsley chopped; lay these around the chicken, season with 
pepper and salt, and add four or five cloves ; pour over a quart 
of cold water ; simmer slowly an hour, if the chicken is young, 
or until tender ; take out the chicken, thicken with a little 
browned flour, give a boil up, pour over the fowl and serve 

* Broiled Chicken. 

After the chickens have been drawn and well washed, split 
them through the back, flatten them with a cleaver or chopper, 
and lay them on a gridiron over a bright fire. They must be 
constantly watched and turned several times. When done, lay 
them on a hot dish, butter them well and dust with pepper and 
salt. Put the giblets in a stew-pan, with cold water, and pepper 
and salt ; simmer several hours ; when tender, chop the gizzard, 
rub the liver to a paste with a little butter and browned flour, 
stir in the gravy, give a boil up, and serve with the chicken. 

Pilau of Chicken, 

Prepare a chicken and truss it as for boiling, but without 
filling; put it in a stew-pan, with sufficient boiling water to 
cover it ; add two blades of mace, a dozen whole cloves, the same 
of allspice, same of peppercorns, same of cardamom seed, a 
small pinch of cinnamon and a teaspoon of salt ; let all simmer 
slowly until the fowl is tender; take out the chicken, strain the 
broth and lay the chicken in again ; pick and wash a teacup of rice, 
put it round ths fowl, stew gently until tender, and serve. Place 
the chicken on a hot dish, the rice around it. You may make 
a broth with the giblets and any trimmings of veal, and stew 
the fowl in this, with the other ingredients, as above. 



78 CO OKER T FB OM HXPEBIENCE. 

* Chicken and Oysters, 

A WESTERN RECIPE. 

Prepare and divide a chicken as for a pie, stew it in enough 
water to cover it until tender, which, if a young chicken, will 
be in an hour j if old, much longer. Take out the chicken and 
drain i(, keeping it hot; put in the liquor a quarter of a pound 
of butter, rubbed to a paste with a heaping tablespoonful of 
flour ; season with salt and pepper ; add two hard-boiled eggs 
chopped and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; drain one 
hundred oysters, add them to the gravy ; stew until the oysters 
are cooked, which will be in a few minutes, and pour over the 
chicken and serve. If the oysters are large, fifty are sufficient. 

* Chicken Curry. 

Divide the chicken as for fricassee, put it in a stew-pan with 
a very little water ; simmer, closely covered, twenty minutes ; 
then take out the chicken, and in the broth, which should be 
very little, fry three thin slices of pork, with two onions sliced;, 
then take out the pork, replace the chicken, add a little more 
water, if necessary ; mix one and a half tablespoonsful of curry 
powder with a little cold water and a teaspoonful of flour; stir 
it in the chicken and stew until tender. Serve with boiled rice 
in a separate dish. 

* Fried Chicken. 

Prepare the fowls as for a fricassee, dividing them into eleven 
pieces ; put the giblets in a stew-pan, with cold water to cover 
them, and a little pepper and salt, and allow them to simmer for 
several hours for the gravy; dip each piece of chicken into 
beaten yolk of egg and roll in cracker dust or very fine bread 
crumbs (grated and sifted), and seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and fry each piece very brown in half butter and half lard or 
very nice beef drippings ; when the chicken is done, serve on a 
hot dish ; chop the giblets very fine and pour them, with the 
broth they were cooked in, into the dripping-pan you fried tho 



FOULTRT AND GAME. 79 

ehioken in ; thicken with a little flour, and serve separately in a 
gravy-boat. 

* Chicken Curry, No. 2. 
Prepare and divide the fowls as above ; put into a stew-pan 
butter the size of an egg, lay the pieces of fowl in this when you 
have made it hot, fry them a nice brown, pour over them broth 
to cover which you have prepared by stewing the giblets with a 
large onion or two small ones ; simmer in this for twenty 
minutes ; put in a bowl two tablespoons of curry powder, a tea- 
spoonful of browned flour and a little salt, mixed to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water; add this to the chicken, shaking 
it well together until it boils ; simmer gently for twenty minutes 
more, stirring and shaking to prevent it burning ; then add two 
tablespoons of cream, take up the chicken, pour the gravy over, 
and serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. 

* Barbecued Chicken. 

Prepare the chickens as for broiling, split them open on the 
back and flatten them with a cleaver, lay. them in a dripping- 
pan, with the inside of the chickens next the pan ; season with 
pepper and salt and put them in a hot oven ; baste them occa- 
sionally with butter and water. They will take about three- 
quarters of an hour. When done, make a rich brown gravy, as 
for broiled chickens, pour it over them and serve. 

* Stewed Pigeons. 
Cut a quarter of a pound of fat salt pork into strips, lay them 
in a stew-pan with the pigeons, their livers and gizzards ; brown 
them in this ; then add two or three small onions, a bunch of 
parsley and thyme tied together, three cloves, pepper to taste, 
and boiling water sufficient to stew them ; cook until tender ; 
thicken the gravy with browned flour, and pour over the pigeons 
when you serve them 



80 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

*Eoast Pigeons. 
When the pigeons are cleaned, drawn and washed, put the 
giblets over the fire in a stew-pan, with cold water, pepper and 
salt, and let them simmer several hours for the gravy ; prepare 
a filling of bread crumbs, seasoned as for roast chickens, fill the 
I birds and truss them, lay them in a dripping-pan, season them 
with pepper and salt and dust them with flour ; put them in a 
hot oven, and when they begin to cook, baste them with butter 
and water ; repeat this frequently, roast about half an hour ; for 
the gravy, rub the livers to a paste with butter and browned 
flour, and stir them in the broth ; turn all out into the dripping- 
pan, when you have dished the pigeons, give a boil up, pour a 
few spoonsful over the birds, the remainder in a gravy-boat. 

* Broiled Pigeons. 

For this the squabs or young pigeons must be used. Clean 
and split them down the back and flatten them, broil them on a 
gridiron over a bright fire ; when done lay them on a hot dish, 
season them with pepper and salt, butter them plentifully, and 
serve on nicely-brown toast, a slice under each bird. 

* Pigeon Pie. 

Clean and cut each bird in four quarters, line a deep dish 
with a good crust, place a layer of thin slices of pickled pork at 
the bottom, on these put a layer of the birds, season with pepper 
and salt sprinkled over, butter the size of a walnut cut in little 
pieces and dust thickly with flour, place another layer of 
birds, and season as before ; when all the pigeons are in, cover 
tLe top with thin slices of pork, pour over all a pint of broth, 
or if you have none, the same of water, and cover with crust, 
and bake an hour in a moderate oven ; leave an opening cut 
each way on the middle of the top crust, and if the pie seems 
dry add more broth. When the pie is done, cover this with an 
ornament of crust which you have baked separately on a pip 
dish or tin. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 81 

* Partridges. 

These may be split and broiled, or stuffed and roasted — if the 
latter put the livers, gizzards and ends of the neck in a small 
stew-pan, with pepper and salt, pour over a little cold water, and 
simmer for an hour or two for the gravy ; make a filling with 
bread crumbs, pepper and salt, a little sweet marjoram and half 
the quantity of sweet basil, some chopped parsley and melted 
butter, mix well, fill the birds loosely, tie them round with wrap- 
ping cord, and lay them side by side in a dripping-pan ; 
season them with pepper and salt, dust lightly with flour, and roast 
them in a quick oven for about half an hour, basting with 
butter and water. When they are done lay them on a hot dish, 
chop the giblets, and put them with the broth they were boiled 
in (which should not be more than half a teacupful), into the 
pan, thicken with a little browned flour, give a boil up, add a 
glass of Port wine, and pour over the birds. 

* Salmi of Young Partridges. 

Half roast five young partridges, cover them with paper whilst 
roasting ; then cut up the birds as for serving, that is, separate 
the legs, wings and breast, take ofi' all the skin, and put it with 
the necks, back and sidebones into a stew-pan, with a small 
onion, some strips of ham or fat pickled pork, a carrot out in 
dice, three or four mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and thyme, 
two or three cloves, a dozen pepper corns, the same of allspice, 
and butter the size of an egg ; fry them slightly and then add to 
them three wine-glasses of Madeira wine, and a teacup of good 
broth, and let them simmer closely covered for an hour and a 
half, then strain through a sieve, lay in the gravy the joints and 
breasts of the birds, put them into a farina-boiler, and stir occa- 
sionally until boiling hot ; add to them a teaspoon heaping full of 
browned flour mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and a 
tablespoonful of browning ; when the gravy has thickened and 
the meat is boiling hot, take out the birds, place them on a 
warm dish and pour tl > gravy over them and serve. 
6 



82 COOKERY ^ROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Partridge Pie. 

Lay in the bottom of a deep dish slices of veal half an inch 
in thickness, season with pepper and salt, and a little chopped 
parsley ; cut the partridges in half and lay them on the veal, 
seasoning them with a little pepper and salt; when the birds are 
all in, cover the top of them with slices of fat bacon or pickled 
pork ; have ready a gravy made with the tips of the wings the 
ends of the necks, and the giblets, stewed for about an hour in 
water to cover them and seasoned with pepper and salt, a small 
onion and a bunch of parsley; thicken it a very little, strain it, 
and add a glass of Sherry wine ; pour it over the birds, cover with 
half puff paste and bake an hour and a half in a quick oven, 
cover with paper when the crust is brown enough. 

* Woodcock. 

Woodcock may be broiled, buttered well, seasoned with pepper 
and salt and served on toast, or they maybe stuffed and roasted; 
if the latter, prepare a filling as for partridges, stuff the birds 
loosely, tie them round with wrapping-cord, season with pepper 
and salt, dust with flour, roast about half an hour, basting with 
butter and hot water ; make a gravy by stewing the giblets in 
a very little water until tender, then chop them and put them 
with their broth into the pan ; after you have taken the birds out, 
add a tablespoonful of currant jelly and a glass of Port wine; 
boil up and pour over the birds. Always bear in mind when 
making a gravy with the giblets of birds that there should 
not be more than a few tablespoonfuls of broth before you add 
the jelly and wine ; thicken with browned flour. Snipe, or any 
other small birds, may be cooked in the same manner. 

* Pheasants. 

Prepare, stuff and roast the same as chickens, baste with 
butter and water, make a gravy with the giblets, thicken with 
browned flour, add a glass of wine, and serve currant jelly with 
them. Three-quarters of an hour will be sufficient for a full 
grown bird. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 83 

* Guinea Fowls. 

When young these birds are very fine ; make a filling as for 
ducks, and dress and serve them the same way, and accompany 
them with currant jelly or cranberry sauce. 

* Eeed Birds. 

When cleaned, dip each bird in beaten yolk of eggs, then roll 
in bread crumbs or cracker dust which have been seasoned with 
pepper and salt, and fry a nice brown in half butter and half 
lard or sweet beef drippings. Or, they may be broiled and 
served on toast, with plenty of butter and a little pepper and 
salt. 

Rabbit Curry. 

Joint and wash the rabbit, and put it in a frying-pan with 
strips of salt pork ; turn frequently until brown, then season with 
pepper and salt, cover with broth or water, add an onion cut in 
pieces and simmer an hour ; then add a tablespoonful of curry 
powder mixed to a paste with cold water, and stew twenty 
minutes longer, or until the rabbit is very tender ; thicken the 
stew with browned fiour, and serve with boiled rice. 

Rabbit en civet. 

PROFESSOR blot's WAY. 

Cut a rabbit in small pieces, put on the fire in a pan with two 
ounces of butter, stir until brown ; then add a quarter of a 
pound of fat pork cut in strips, stir a few minutes, and add one 
tablespoonful of flour (mixed to a paste in cold water), half a 
pint of broth, one and a half gills of claret wine, a bunch of 
parsley and thyme, salt and pepper, and stew slowly until quito 
tender. 

* Fricasseed Rabbit. 

Joint the rabbit and cut in pieces, lay in cold water a few 
minutes, drain and put in a stew-pan with pepper and a quarter 
of a pound of pickkd pork cut in strips, cover with cold water, 



84 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

and simmer for half an hour, then add an onion chopped, a 
tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a blade of mace and two 
cloves, mix to a smooth paste a tablespoonful of flour, stir it in 
and simmer until the rabbit is perfectly tender ; stir in half a 
teacup of rich cream ; if not thick enough add a little more 
flour, boil up once and serve. 

Stewed Rabbit. 

Divide the rabbits at the joints, season with pepper and salt, 
dredge with flour, and fry a nice brown in drippings or half 
butter and half lard. When this is done, pour around them 
enough broth to cover them, add a dozen whole allspice, an onion 
cut in four, and a bunch of parsley and thyme ; simmer slowly 
for an hour or more until tender, thicken the gravy with 
browned flour, add the juice of a lemon, a very little piece of 
peel, and a glass of wine ; give a boil up and serve. 

Another Way. 

Joint and stew the rabbits until tender, butter a pan, lay the 
pieces over the bottom ; beat up two eggs, with a little grated 
nutmeg, pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley, and a handful 
of bread-crumbs ; pour this over the rabbit, set it in a hot oven, 
and bake half an hour. It should be a rich brown. 

Eabbits and Onions. 

Joint and stew the rabbits until very tender, and in as little 
broth or water as possible, seasoning them with pepper and salt. 
An hour will be sufficient if they are young. Peel a dozen good- 
sized white onions, cut them in quarters, and cover with boiling 
water. When about half done, drain the water off, squeeze 
them through a towel to take out the water, and chop them in 
a wooden bowl ; put them in a frying-pan with three ounces of 
butter, and fry them a nice brown, stirring them frequently. 
When they are colored, add a little flour, and half a cup of 
cream, with salt and pepper to taste; let it thicken over a sharp 
fire, drain the rabbits, pour the sauce over and serve. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 85 

* To Boast Sucks. 
Prepare them by singeing, washing and drawing the same as 
chickens; put the giblets in a stew-pan with pepper and salt, 
an onion eut in two, and cold water to cover them, and let them 
stew gently for several hours for the gravy ; prepare a filling of 
bread-crumbs, about a quart for two ducks, add pepper and salt 
to your taste, a large onion chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of 
sage dried and rubbed fine, a teaspoonful of sweet marjoram the 
same ; a piece of butter the size of an egg melted and poured 
over; mix all well together, fill the ducks, truss them, season 
with pepper and salt, and dust with flour, and roast them if 
small an hour, longer if larger; baste them frequently, make 
the gravy of the giblets the same as for roast chickens, and 
serve with currant jelly or cranberry sauce. 

* Stewed Ducks. 
Prepare and divide the ducks as you would chickens for a 
fricasee, season with pepper and salt, and lay them in a frying- 
pan with water to cover them; simmer them slowly for about an 
hour. When tender, put in with them a quarter of a pound of 
butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a small onion 
chopped fine ; simmer until the water is gone and they begin to 
brown, then add a tablespoonful of browned flour mixed to a 
smooth paste with cold water ; boil up once and serve. 

* To warm Cold Duck. 
Cut up the duck and put it in a stew-pan with remains of 
cold gravy or broth ; if not enough to cover, add water ; rub to 
a paste two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of browned flour, 
stir it in, and add a wine-glass of mushroom or tomato catsup, 
a little chopped parsley, a small onion chopped, and pepper and 
salt to taste ; stew fifteen minutes and serve. 

Roast Ooose. 
Singe and wash the goose, draw it, and put the giblets on the 
fire in a stew-pan, with pepper, salt and an onion cut in half; 



86 CO OKER r FR OM EXt 2BIENCE. 

simmer for several hours for the gravy ; prepare a filling of 
bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, an onion chopped, 
two teaspoonsful of sage leaves dried and rubbed fine, and the 
same of sweet majoram, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and 
butter the size of an egg melted and poured over ; fill the bird, 
truss it, season and roast the same as turkey; make a gravy of 
the broth with the gizzard chopped and the liver rubbed fine 
with a little butter, thicken with browned florr, give a boil up, 
put a few spoonsful over the goose, the remainder in a gravy- 
boat ; serve with a brown onion-sauce or apple-sauce. If you 
prefer a potato stuffing, boil six or eight potatoes, peel them, 
chop and season the same as above. 

To Dress Cold Goose. 
Cut the meat from the bones, season with pepper and salt ; 
cut two onions up and put them in a frying-pan with an ounce 
of butter, fry until the onions are brown and tender ; add a table- 
spoonful of browned flour, a wine-glass of tomato catsup and a 
teacup of broth, if you have no gravy left; if you have the 
latter, add water enough to make a cupful ; put in the goose, 
simmer for fifteen minutes and serve. You may add a glass of 
wine and the juice of a lemon, if you want it more piquant. 

* Canvas-back Ducks. 

Singe, and draw them and wash very clean, rinse out the 
inside with warm water in which you have dissolved a small 
piece of soda ; then rinse again in clear cold water. Prepare a 
filling of a pint of grated and sifted bread crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt, a small onion chopped very fine, a little chopped 
parsley and a piece of butter the size of a large egg melted and 
poured over ; mix all well together with a knife, divide it into 
two equal parts, and put a portion in each duck ; truss them, 
secure the legs and wings with skewers, season them outside 
with pepper and salt, and dust a little flour over them ; put them 
in a pan and roast them in a quick oven about three-quarters of 
an hour ; if the ducks are very fat, put a little irater in the pan 



POULTRY AND GAME. 87 

with them, and baste them with their own drippings ; if they 
are not fat, baste them with butter and hot water stirred 
together. When the ducks are done and taken out of the pan, 
if there is much fat pour it off, and add to the gravy half a tea- 
cup of currant jelly and the same of Port wine, give a boil up 
and serve in a sauce-boat. Any other wild ducks are cooked in 
the same manner. Prepare and season a wild turkey in the 
same way, excepting tha^t you make a gravy of the giblets as in 
roast chickens, and leave out the wine and jelly. 

* Wild Ducks Stewed. 

Draw and singe them and wash very clean, and divide them 
as you would chicken for a fricassee, season each piece with 
pepper and salt and dust with flour ; melt in a frying-pan 
a quarter of a pound of butter ; when hot, lay in the pieces of 
duck, fry a nice brown ; put the giblets in with the ducks, then 
cover with hot water and stew until tender, letting the water 
cook almost dry at the last; add half a teacup of currant jelly, 
the same of Port wine ; boil three minutes, and serve with the 
gravy over them ; thicken with a teaspoon of browned flour. 

Haunch of Venison Roasted. 

Wash and wipe the meat with a dry cloth, make a thick paste 
of flour and water, butter a large sheet of paper and cover the 
venison with it ; roll out the paste three-quarters of an inch 
thick, lay this over the fat side, cover it with three or four sheets 
of thick white paper and tie it securely with wrapping-cord ; 
baste well all the time it is roasting to prevent the paper and 
string from burning. A haunch of twelve pounds will require 
three hours to roast, a larger one in proportion ; half an hour 
before it is done, take it from the oven, cut the strings, take ofl' 
the paste and paper, dredge it with flour and season with pepper 
and salt ; put it back in the oven, baste it with butter and roast 
for half an hour longer, or until it is of a fine brown, basting it 
frequently ; when the venison is done, thicken the gravy with a 
teafipoonful only of browned flour, a 'd a glass of Port wine and 



88 COOKERY SROM EXPERIENCE. 

a tablespocnful of currant jelly, simmer until the jelly is dis- 
solved, pour over the meat and serve. A saddle of venison \n 
cooked precisely the same way. 

* Venison Steaks. 

To broil them, cut them half an inch thick, broil over a bright 
fire ; when done, season with cayenne pepper and salt ; melt 
over the fire in a small stew-pan a tablespoonful of currant jelly 
and a piece of butter the size of an egg, pour over the steaks' 
and serve. If you wish to cook them in the chafing-dish, out 
half the thickness, lay them in the dish, season with pepper and 
salt, add butter and currant jelly, and simmer a few minutes. 

Neck and Shoulder of Venison. 

Season and roast the same as mutton, and serve with currant 
jelly separate. 

* Venison Pasty. 

Take the meat from a breast or shoulder of venison, cut it 
into pieces about two inches square ; crack the bones and put 
them with all the trimmings of the meat in a stew-pan with 
pepper and salt, and stew them for two hours j strain them out 
and put the meat you intend for the pie into this broth, add to 
it three gills of Port wine, two onions cut in slices, three bladeii 
of mace, a dozen blades of allspice and a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; let the meat stew in this until half done ; take out the 
meat and put it in a deep dish, pour over enough of the gravy 
to cover it, with a teaspoonful of flour stirred into a paste with a 
little of the broth ; cover with half pufi' paste, ornament the top, 
and bake it nearly two hours in a slow oven. Before you send 
it to table, add the juice of a lemon to the remainder of the 
gravy and half a gill of Port wine ; give it a boil up and pour 
it-through a small opening in the crust. 

* Quails or Partridges. 

Singe, draw and wash them ; truss the legs and wings to the 
body cover the breast with a slice of fat bacon, lay them in t 



POULTRY AND GAME. 89 

pan, with very little water round them, season with a little pep- 
per and dust lightl}' with flour, baste them frequently with the 
drippings, and roast them for fifteen or twenty minutes. Sim- 
mer the giblets foi an hour or more; when the birds are dished, 
turn the giblets into the pan ; they should have very little broth 
on them ; dust in a little flour, add a glass of Port wine, boil up 
once, pour over the birds and serve. 

* Frogs. 

Only the hind-quarters of frogs are cooked ; wash and wipe 
them, flour them and fry a light brown in butter ; or put them 
in a stew-pan with butter, a sprinkling of flour, and pepper and 
salt ; shake them about over the fire for a moment, then add a 
very little water, simmer until tender and almost dry, then add 
a coflfeecup of cream, butter the size of an egg, a little flour and 
chopped parsley, give a boil up and serve. 

Canvas-back Ducks. 

After being well washed, roast them twenty minutes, serve 
them whole, carve them at the table, lay them in a chafing-dish, 
with cayenne pepper, salt, a large piece of butter, half a tum- 
bler of currant-jelly, and as much Madeira winej simmer a 
few minutes and serve. 



SHELL FISH. 



* Stewed Oysters. 

Drain the oysters in a cullender, put the juice over the firn 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, with a little salt, let it simmer until 
the scum rises, then strain the juice through a clean cloth, re- 
turn it to the kettle, and for a hundred oysters, add three blades 
of mace, half a saltspoon of black pepper, a dozen whole all- 
spice, and a pint of rich new milk j bring to a boil, then stir in 
the oysters with six ounces of butter rubbed to a paste with a 
heaping tablespoonful of flour, simmer five or six minutes, or 
until the beard of the oyster separates into leaves, and serve. 

* Broiled Oysters. 

For broiling, you must have fine large oysters ; drain them in 
a cullender, and spread them between two clean soft towels, let 
them lie for ten or fifteen minutes ; butter the bars of the broiler 
to prevent the oysters from sticking; lay the oysters close to- 
gether, as many as you can get on the broiler, and put them 
over a bright fire. When they commence to brown, turn the 
other side of the gridiron down, have ready a deep tin dish or 
pan, very hot, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and as much 
black pepper and salt as will season the oysters to your taste ; 
turn them into it, stir them well through the butter, and serve 
on a hot dish. If you have more oysters than your broiler will 
hold keep the first covered closely and set the pan in the oven, 
whilst you proceed with the rest. Oysters can only be broiled 
on the double wire gridirons which come for the purpose. 

(9J) 



92 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Panned Oysters. 

Drain ohe juice from a hundred oysters, and lay them between 
the folds of a soft clean cloth or towel until they are dry ; melt 
in a frying-pan a quarter of a pound of butter. When quite 
hot, put in the oysters, add pepper and salt, and stir them over 
a good fire until they show their leaves, then pour in a hot dish, 
cover and serve. 

* Fried Oysters. 

For frying, as for broiling, you require fine large oysters ; 
drain them, and dry them between soft towels ; for one hundred 
oysters, put in a large bowl or basin the yolks of six eggs beaten 
slightly ; put the oysters all in at once, and stir them round 
until every oyster is coated with egg; then take each one out 
separately, and roll in very fine bread crumbs or cracker dust, 
which has been seasoned with pepper and salt; melt in a frying- 
pan equal quantities of butter and lard, sufficient to cover the 
oysters completely. When boiling hot, lay in the oysters, and 
fry a light brown as quickly as possible. Oysters are hard and 
tough when cooked too long. Serve as dry as possible on a hot 
dish. Wipe the oysters perfectly dry before putting them in 
the eggs. 

* Scalloped Oysters. 

Have ready bread crumbs not very finely grated, butter a 
pudding-dish, and put in it a layer of the crumbs ; on these 
put a layer of oysters and another layer of crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt, and sprinkle thickly with pieces of butter, then 
another layer of oysters and crumbs, seasoned and buttered aa 
before, and so on until the dish is filled ; place a layer of crumbs 
over the top well seasoned, cover with little pieces of butter, 
put them in a quick oven and bake them slowly for an hour and 
a half; cover them with paper when brown enough. 

Another Way. 

Proceed with the oysters as above, but instead of crumbs use 
small squares of bread, cut into dice, with plenty of butter and 
seasoning, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. 



SHELL FISH. 93 

Scalloped Oysters, No. 3. 
Drain the oysters, and put them in a stew-pan with a teacup 
of rich cream, and half the quantity of their own liquor, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, with a teaspoonful of corn starch 
mixed in it, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt 
to your taste, and two beaten eggs; mix all together, and set 
over the fire, simmer for one minute ; butter a scallop-shell or 
deep dish, sprinkle plentifully with bread crumbs, pour in the 
oysters, cover the top thickly with bread crumbs, season with 
pepper and salt, scatter pieces of butter over the top, and bake 
half an hour. This is for one hundred oysters. 

* Oyster Patties. 

Roll out puff paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares, cover eight or ten patty-pans, put on each a piece of 
bread as large round as a walnut, and an inch in thickness; roll 
out another layer of paste of the same thickness, out it as above, 
wet the edge of the bottom crust, lay on the top, trim them 
round the edge, notch them with the back of the knife half an 
inch apart, and bake them in a hot oven fifteen minutes. When 
they are done, cut a round piece out of the top crust, leaving the 
edge entire ; take out the bread and fill the insides with oysters 
prepared as follows : Drain all the juice from them, chop a 
dozen of them quite fine, and put them with the whole oysters 
into a stew-pan, and for fifty oysters, add two-thirds of a pint of 
rich milk, a little white pepper and salt, a blade of mace, and 
two ounces of butter, with a half teaspoon of corn starch mixed 
into a paste in it ; stir all together, and add the yolks of two 
and the white of one egg beaten a little. When thoroughly 
mixed, set over the fire and simmer two or three minutes, until 
the beard of the oysters separates ; then take them off and fill 
the patties and serve. If your patty-pans are small, cut the 
oysters each in two or three pieces before you add them to the 
chopped oysters; stir them all the time 1 hey are over the fire. 



94 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Oyster Pie, No. 1. 

Make a crust of half puiF paste, line a deep di&n with it, secur- 
ing it firmly on the rim of the dish ; prick it with a fork, be- 
ing careful not to let the fork go quite through the crust ; bak« 
it in a quick oven ; for the cover, roll into the remainder of the 
crust two ounces more butter, roll it twice, out it out the shape 
of your dish, lay it in a pan, ornament it with leaves of the 
paste, and bake it a light brown. Strain oflf all the juice from 
seventy-five oysters, put them in a stew-pan with a pint of milk, 
a dozen whole allspice, the same of whole black pepper, and a 
blade of mace; add a little salt, stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter, mix in cold milk two even teaspoons of corn starch, and 
stir it in the oysters ; take out a cup full of the juice after it is 
all well mixed, and stir it slowly into three beaten eggs ; then add 
them to the oysters, give a boil up, pour them into the crust, 
put on the .cover, and serve. 

* Oyster Pie, No. 2. 

For seventy-five large oysters, boil four eggs twenty minutes, 
lay them in cold water for ten minutes, break off the shells, and 
chop them finely; put the oysters with their juice over the fire 
in a porcelain-lined kettle, add to them pepper and salt, a very 
little grated nutmeg, a piece of onion half as large as a shellbark 
chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, two table- 
spoonsful of rolled cracker or cracker dust, the hard-boiled eggs, 
and a quarter of a pound of butter with a tablespoonful of flour, 
or two teaspoonsful of corn starch mixed into a paste with it ; 
stii all together over the fire until the butter is melted through 
the oysters, then set them ofi', and let them cool whilst you pre- 
pare the crust, which should be half puff paste ; line a deep dish 
with the paste, pour in the oysters; roll the paste for the cover with 
a little more butter, a piece the size of an egg, give it two rolls, 
using as little flour as possible, cover your pie (having first cut 
several little incisions in the cover), and bake in a quick oven 
a little more than half an hour. When brown on the top, cover 
with thick paper to prevent the crust from burning. 



SHELL FISH. 96 

* Roasted Oysters. 

Wash them very clean, and lay them in their shells on the 
top of the stove or range with a hot fire under them. When 
the shells open, they are done; take them out with a sharp 
knife, and toss them in a chafing-dish, with pepper, salt and 
plenty of butter ; cover closely and give a boil up on the table; 
or if you do not use a chafing-dish, open them in a tin dish with 
butter, pepper and salt in it, and give a heat up on the top of 
the range, put them in a covered dish and serve. 

* Pickled Oysters, 

Drain the oysters in a cullender, put the juice over the fire in 
a porcelain-lined kettle, and for one hundred oysters, add four 
blades of maee, a dozen whole cloves, a teaspoonful of whole 
allspice, salt and white pepper to your taste, and as much vinegar 
as you have juice; throw the oysters into a large pan of very 
cold water, stir about for a minute, drain again in the cullender. 
When done dripping, pour them into the kettle, and simmer 
until they show their leaves; pour out, and if you wish to keep 
them several days, put them in glass air-tight jars. 

* Another Way. 

Drain the oysters, and put the juice over the fire in a porce- 
lain-lined kettle with a few blades of mace, white pepper and 
salt. When the liquor boils, put in as many oysters as will cook 
nicely. When they show their leaves, take them out with a per- 
forated skimmer, and throw them in a pan of ice water; put in 
more oysters to cook, and proceed as before, until all are done. 
Take the oysters out of the ice water in one minute after you 
put them in, drain them, and put them in a tureen or large cov- 
ered dish, strain the juice through a fine muslin cloth over the 
oysters, add vinegar to your taste, a little more salt, a sprinkle 
of cayenne pepper, and a slice or two of lemon. The lemon is 
to be added when the oysters are perfectly cold. 



96 CO OKEB Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Devilled Crabs. 

Boil the crabs about ten or fifteen minutes. When cold, ex- 
tract the meat, cut it in small pieces, season with cayenne pepper 
and salt, moisten with a little cream, butter the upper shells of 
the crabs, fill with the meat, cover the tops thickly with bread 
crumbs, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and lay on 
the top of each one a piece of butter nearly as large as a walnut, 
and brown them in a hot oven. They will take about fifteen 
minutes. 

* Lobster Patties. 

Roll out puff paste crust a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into 
squares as many as you have patty pans, cover them with it, lay 
in each a piece of bread the size of a walnut, and about an inch 
in thickness, cover them with crust the same thickness, wet the 
edge of the bottom crust before you put the cover on, and press 
lightly on it, notch them round with the back of a knife, and 
bake about fifteen minutes in a hot oven. When done, cut a 
round piece out of the top crust, take out the bread and put in 
the lobster prepared as follows : Take out the meat from a cold- 
boiled lobster, cut it in pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with 
some of the green fat from the inside of the lobster, a quarter 
of a pound of butter, for one large lobster, a gill of cream, the 
same of veal or chicken broth, or water if you have neither ; 
a little cayenne pepper, salt, a tablespoonful of flour, and a blade 
of mace ; stew it five minutes, and fill the patties. 

Lobster Scallop. 

Cut in small pieces the meat of boiled lobster, put it in a stew- 
pan with butter the size of an egg for one large lobster, a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of flour, and a little salt and pepper; mix well 
together over the fire until the butter is melted, then add a 
soffeecup of cream, with the yolk of an egg beaten in it, and give 
one boil up ; butter a scallop-shell or deep dish, sprinkle with 
finely-grated bread crumbs, pour in the lobster, spread bread 



SHELL FISH. 97 

ciumbs over the top, season witl pepper and salt, and strew over 
a few little pieces of butter, and bake twenty minutes or half an 
hour in a quick oven. 

Clam Chowder. 

Cut three-quarters of a pound of pickled pork into thin slices 
and fry them rather crisp ; drain the liquor from about one hun- 
dred and fifty little soft-shelled clams, which have been opened 
raw, place a couple of slices of the pork in the bottom of a pot, 
lay on them a layer of the clams, on these put a couple of slices 
of onion, season with pepper, and scatter lumps of butter over 
the top, on this put a layer of water crackers which have been 
partially soaked, then a couple more slices of the pork, a layer 
of clams, two more slices of onion, pepper, plenty of butter, 
another layer of crackers, and so on until all are in ; cover the 
top with crackers, scatter lumps of butter over them and a very 
little salt and pepper ; mix two tablespoonsful of flour to a smooth 
paste with a little cold water, stir it in the clam-juice, add as 
much water as you have juice, pour this over the top of the 
chowder, cover closely, set it in a hot oven and bake an hour. 

* Devilled Lobster. 
Take the meat from a cold, boiled lobster, cut it in small 
pieces, add the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a 
little mustard, salt, and cayenne pepper; butter a scallop-dish, 
put in the lobster, cover the top with finely-grated bread crumbs, 
moisten with two tablespoons of cream, cover thickly with little 
pieces of butter, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

.Soft Shell Crabs. 
Take out the sand-bags, trim the spongy parts from the sides 
and legs, melt in a stew-pan sufficient butter and lard mixed to 
float them, when boiling hot drop in the crabs and fry a light 
•orown, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them and serve. 

* Stewed Clams. 
For a hundred little sand clams or soft-shelled clams ; open 
them raw the same as an oyster, or what is better procure tlicm 

7 



98 COO KER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

opened, put them in a cullender to drain, boil a pint of rich 
new milk, rub a quarter of a pound of butter to a paste with a 
heaping tablespoon of flour, stir it in the boiling milk, add the 
juice of the ckms, pepper and salt lo your taste, and a blade 
of mace, when boiling hot, stir in the clams, cook five minutes 
ind serve. 

* Scalloped Clams. 

Wash the clams very clean, put them in a dripping-pan and 
set them in a hot oven, when the shells open, take them out, 
save the liquor which has run from them, take the clams out 
of the shells, and chop them very small in a wooden bowl, take 
half a teacup of the juice, and the same quantity of cream or 
rich milk, beat up the yolks of two eggs and mix with the cream 
and juice, add a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, and a little 
black pepper ; the clams need no salt ; mix this well through the 
chopped clams, butter a scallop-shell or deep dish, scatter bread 
crumbs over the bottom, pour in the clams, cover the top thickly 
with bread crumbs at least half an inch deep, put pieces 
of butter thickly over the top, a little pepper and salt, and 
bake in a hot oven nearly three quarters of an hour. This sea- 
soning is for fifty large clams. 

Clam Fritters. 
Make a batter with three eggs, a pint of milk, and five heap- 
ing tablespoonsful of flour ; beat the eggs, add the flour gradu- 
ally with the milk, beat until perfectly smooth : chop twenty-five 
clams, drain the juice off, and stir them in, fry in boiling lard, 
drop a spoonful at a time, and turn when brown. 

* Scallops. 
Dip them in beaten yolks of egg, roll them in cracker dust 
which you have seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry them in 
boiling lard, sufficient to cover them ; when brown they are done. 

* Stewed Lobster. 

Cut the meat cf boiled lobster in small pieces, but do not chop 
it, put it in a stew-pan with (if on ^ lobster) three ounces of 



SBELL FISH. 99 

butter, a sa-tspoon of cayenne pepper, two blades of mace, a 
little salt, and a couple of tablespoonsful of boiling water, stew 
about ten minutes very gently, and serve. 

* To Dress Terrapins, No. 1. 

Have ready a pot of \ oiling water ; drop the terrapins in the 
water alive, and if they are large, boil them an hour and a half, 
or two hours, or until you can pull the skin from the legs ; if 
small, they will not take so long : when they are cold, take oif 
the shells, pull out the claws, open the body, and take out very 
carefully the sand-bag and gall, without breaking the latter ; 
cut off the heads, the remainder of the terrapin with the intes- 
tines are to be used, cut all into small pieces, and put it in a 
stew-pan, and for three large terrapins, allow three quarters of a 
pound of fresh butter, half a coffeecup of rich cream, with the 
yolks of two eggs beaten in it, half a saltspoon of cayenne pep- 
per, a saltspoon ful of salt, a little black pepper, two blades of 
mace, and a tablespoonful of flour rubbed in the butter, simmer 
ten minutes, add a tumbler and a half of good Madeira or Sherry 
wine, and serve. 

* Terrapin, No. 2. 

Boil and prepare the terrapins as in No. 1, mash very smooth 
the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs for each large terrapin, with 
a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir in the liquor that ran from 
the terrapin when you cut it up, add salt and cayenne pepper to 
your taste, and simmer a few minutes unul the meat is hot all 
through ; add a glass of wine and serve. 

For twelve small terrapins, one and a half pounds of butter, 
the yolks of eight hard-boiled eggs, half a teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, a teaspoon or more of salt, and a tumbler of wine. 

* Beef Terrapin. 

Procure a shin of beef, sawed through the bone in three 
places, making four pieces of it; put it in a vessel over the fire, 
cover it with Doiling water, and throw in a tablespoonful of salt ; 
keep a kettle :i Iroiling water on the range or stove, to replenish 



100 CO OKERT FR OM EXPEEIEN CE. 

it as it cooks away, as the meat must be kept covered with water 
all the time it is cooking ; boil until perfectly tender, but not 
broken, which will take three or four hours, as it must not boil 
hard, but cook very gently. When the meat is done, take it out 
and set it aside to cool ; the broth may be used for soup. When 
the meat is cold, cut it in dice about half an inch square, and 
season it with salt, cayenne pepper, three blades of mace and a 
little black pepper ; melt over the fire a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; when hot, put the meat in it, cook a few minutes, until 
it is beginning to brown ; add a cup of cream, with a teaspoon 
heaping full of flour mixed smoothly in it ; give it one boil up, 
stir in a glass of Sherry or Madeira wine, remove it from the 
fire and serve. This is an excellent dish and a cheap one. 

* Calf's Head Terrapin. . 

Cleanse and boil the head and brains, as for scallop ; remove 
all the bones from the meat and set aside until perfectly cold ; 
then cut it into small pieces, spread it on a dish with the brains, 
and season highly with cayenne and black pepper and salt ; add 
two blades of mace ; boil four eggs twenty minutes, lay them in 
ice-cold water for ten minutes, take oflF the shells and chop them 
up, add them to the meat ; put all in a large stew-pan or porce- 
lain-lined kettle ; add a teacup of the broth the head was boiled 
in, a large coffeecup of cream, half a pound of butter, with two 
tablespoonsful of browned flour rubbed in it, and simmer until 
thoroughly hot all through ; take from the fire and stir in a tea- 
cup of good cooking wine, and serve in a covered dish or oyster- . 
tureen. 

* Chicken Terrapin, 

Boil a chicken with the' giblets, which will take rather longer 
than the fowl ; when thoroughly tender, set aside on a dish until 
entirely cold ; then cut the fowl and giblets into small pieces, half 
an inch square, put all into a stew-pan, with cayenne pepper and 
salt, two blades of mace, three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a 
teacup of the broth the chicken was boiled in, a coff"eecup of 
rich cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter with a heaping 



SHE .L FISH. 101 

tablespoonful of flour mixed in it ; set on the range, simmer 
for about ten minutes, or until the meat is thoroughly hot ; then 
add a teacup of Madeira or Sherry wine and serve. This quan- 
tity is enough for six or eight persons. 

Hock Terrapin of Calf's Liver. 

Wash the liver before you cut it ; then slice it half an inch in 
thickness ; fry a nice brown, cut in small pieces, and to half a 
calf's liver add a piece of butter the size of an egg, a dessert- 
spoonful of browned flour, a couple of blades of mace, a tea- 
spoonful of mixed or French mustard, a little cayenne pepper, 
and two hard-boiled eggs chopped ; stir all well together, and 
add a cup of cream or water ; stew slowly for five minutes, add 
a glass of wine and serve. 



SALADS 



* Lobster Salad. 

Be very sure that lobsters are alive when you purchase 
them ; have ready a pot of boiling water, with a handful of salt 
in it ; drop them in it, and if they are large boil them steadily 
for half an hour; if smaller, twenty minutes. When they are 
cold and you are ready to dress them, break them in half across 
the middle of the body, twist off the claws, crack them and take 
out the meat ; then split the body and tail open, take out all the 
meat from them ; put all the green fat on a plate by itself; cut 
the meat into small pieces, but do not chop it; put the yolks of 
three eggs into a large bowl, stir them round with a wooden or 
silver spoon, and with your left hand hold the bottle of oil, and 
drop in slowly and steadily, stirring all the time with your right 
hand until you have used a flask of oil (this is enough for two 
or three lobsters), when the dressing will be stiff enough to bear 
the spoon ; then dust in a very little cayenne pepper, the same 
of black, two or three teaspoonsful of mixed mustard, according 
to your taste, and two tablespoonsful of sharp vinegar ; last stir 
in the salt, a little at a time, still stirring hard ; then add the 
green fat you have reserved ; if there is a great deal of it, put 
in only part, about two tablespoonsful, stir it in well; take only 
the bleached leaves out of two or three heads of salad, which 
have been lying in cold water for several hours ; wipe each leaf 
dry, lay them on a dish, put the lobster on them, and pour the 
dressing over and serve. Do not mix it. 

* Dressed Celery. 

Take only the white parts of the celery, cut it in half-inch 
pieces, and let it lie in cold water until near dinner-time ; have 
ready prepared a dressing as for lobster salad; this may be made 

ao3) 



104 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

early in the morning and kept in a cool, dry place j drain the 
celery, put it between two towels, rub it dry, put it in a salad- 
bowl and pour the dressing over it, but do not stir it — that is 
done at the table. Serve with roast poultry or beef. The yolk 
of one egg, and salad-oil in proportion, is sufficient for a large 
dish of celery. 

* Chicken Salad. 
Boil the chickens, let them cool, take all the meat from the 
bones, excepting the lower joint of the leg, which is almost all 
gristle ; leave out all the skin, cut the meat into pieces half the 
size of a nutmeg, but do not chop it ; cover closely and set 
away until you are ready to use it ; cut in half-inch lengths the 
inside white part only of celery until you have as much in bulk 
as you have of the chicken ; lay it in a pan of cold water until 
a few minutes before you are ready to mix all together; then 
take it out and drain it, and dry it by spreading it on thick 
towels ; when perfectly dry, mix it through the chicken in a 
pan large enough to hold all; put the dressing on the top, and 
mix thoroughly with a long-handled wooden spoon ; for the 
dressing allow five hard-boiled and two raw eggs to every 
chicken, and use the yolks only ; put the yolks of the hard- 
boiled eggs into a large basin, mash them fine with a potato- 
masher, if you are going to make a large quantity of dressing ; 
if only for one chicken, you may mash them on a plate with a 
broad-bladed knife ; stir in them as much sweet oil as will make 
a smooth paste ; in another basin stir the raw yolks with a spoon, 
dropping in sweet oil very slowly and stirring all the time until 
you have used, together with what you stirred in the hard-boiled 
eggs, a small flask to every chicken ; when you have all the oil 
in, the mixture will be stifi' enough for the spoon to stand up- 
right in it, if you have gone by the directions ; now mix the 
cooked egg into this, stir it well together, add mixed mustard 
to your taste, a little cayenne and black pepper, and a feyr table- 
spoons of sharp vinegar, but not enough to make a decidedly 
sour taste ; last add salt to your taste ; set it away in a cool, dry 
place, until you are -!ady to mix together fo' the table. This 



SALADS. 105 

dressing cannot be made with anything but the best sweet oil, 
and unless you have such, never attempt it 

The bones and skin of the chickens may be put back in the 
broth they were boiled in, and by simmering a couple of hours, 
you have a good stock for soup. The above dressing is propoi • 
tioned to chickens weighing about five pounds each ; to thia 
weight allow one heaping tablespoonful of dry mustard, mixed 
to a smooth paste with sharp vinegar for two chickens. 

* Tomato Salad. 

Take fine ripe tomatoes, peel them without scalding, as that 
spoils them for salad ; slice them evenly not quite half an inch 
in thickness, and as you cut them, replace the slices to look like 
whole tomatoes j lay them on a dish covered with broken ice, 
until you have all done and are ready to serve them • then 
arrange them neatly side by side on a shallow dish, and garnish 
them with red and yellow nasturtium blossoms; make a dressing 
as for lobster salad and serve it separately in a little ornamental 
dish with cover. This is a dish that tastes as good as it looks, 
and that is saying a great deal. Raw tomatoes may also be 
sliced and put on the table plainly, to be eaten with pepper and 
vinegar. 

* Lettuce or Head Salad. 

Lay the salad in cold water for several hours, then wipe it 
quite dry on a clean towel; make a dressing as for lobster salad, 
put the salad in the dish or bowl, pour the dressing on it and 
serve without stirring it together — this is done at the table. The 
yolk of one egg and oil in proportion is sufficient for a large 
head of salad. 

* Cucumber Salad. 

Pare, slice very thin and lay them in ice-water for twenty 
minutes, take them from the water with a perforated skimmer, 
put them in a glass or China dish with a few thin slices of 
onion ; season with pepper and salt, pour vinegar over them and 
serve quickly ; they become tough and unwholesome by stand- 
ing in the vinegar. 



106 COL S.ER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Potato Salad. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into dice; to six potatoes add one 
root of celery cut into very small pieces ; make a dressing as for 
lettuce, with the yolk of one egg, oil in proportion and pepper 
and salt to your taste ; stir the celery and t)otato together, pour 
the dressing over and serve. 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, &c. 



Chicken Croquettes. 

Chop very fine the meat from two fine large boiled chickens; 
season with pepper and salt, a piece of onion the size of a nutmeg 
chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and half 
a saltspoonful of grated nutmeg ; melt in a stew-pan half a 
pound of hutter, and stir in flour to make a stifi' batter ; in this 
stir a pint of the broth the chickens were boiled in, and a gill 
of cream, give a boil up, add the chicken, stir it well through, 
and spread out on a dish to cool ; form the croquettes in a wine- 
glass or croquette mould, dip them in beaten yolk of egg, roll in 
cracker dust, or very fine bread crumbs which have been grated 
and sifted, and boil iu lard. 

Chicken Croquettes, No. 2. 

Boil a pair of chickens, when cold chop very fine, season with 
salt, pepper and a little grated nutmeg, and a small piece of 
onion chopped very fine ; put into a sauce-pan a pint and a half 
of new milk, or cream, when hot stir in it a quarter of a pound 
of butter, and two tablespoons of flour mixed with a little cold 
milk, boil until thick, then put in the chicken, stir it well in, 
and set it away to cool. Mould and boil in lard. The brains 
from a calf's head boiled and chopped in the chicken is an im- 
provement to this recipe. Five pounds and a half of chicken 
make two dozen croquettes. 

* Chicken and Sweetbread Croquettes. 
Chop very fine the meat from one large chicken, parboil and 
chop four sweetbreads; mix the chicken and sweetbreads well 

(107; 



108 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

together, season with pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, and a piece of onion the size of a shellbark also chop- 
ped very fine, and half a saltspoon of grated nutmeg ; melt in a 
stew-pan six ounces of butter, and stir in flour until a stiff paste ; 
thin this with half a pint of rich broth made from the broth 
the chicken was boiled in reduced until very rich, and four 
tablespoons of cream ; give all a boil up, stir in the chicken and 
sweetbreads, pour on a dish to cool ; when stiff, mould in a wine- 
glass or croquette mould, and dip them in beaten yolk of egg, roll 
them in cracker dust or very fine bread crumbs, and fry in boil- 
ing lard. 

A Plainer Way. 

Mince very fine the meat of one chicken, or two pounds of 
cold veal and as much cold boiled ham, season to taste with 
parsley chopped, and pepper and salt; boil a pint of milk, stir 
in butter the size of an egg and as much flour as will make a 
stiff batter, stir in the meat, give a boil up, spread out to cool ; 
mould the couquets, dip them in beaten polk of egg, roll them 
in cracker dust, and fry in boiling lard. 

* Professor Blot's Croquettes. 

POa TWELVE CROQUETTES. 

Half a pound of cold chicken chopped very fine, one small 
onion also chopped very fine, and fried in a tablespoonful of 
butter, just before finished one tablespoon of flour stirred in, 
then add a gill and a half of broth, a little salt and pepper, five 
small mushrooms chopped fine; or a tablespoonful of boiled rice, 
a little nutmeg, boil up once and just before taking from the 
fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs, stir together very quickly and 
turn out on a dish to cool ; shape and dip in beaten yolk of 
egg, roll in fine crumbs or cracker dust, and boil in lard like 
doughnuts. 

* Another Way. 

Mince the remains of cold roast or boiled chicken or turkey 
yery fine, season with salt^ pepper, nutmeg and a small onior 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, &c. 109 

chopped fine, and a little chopped parsley ; melt in a stew-pan a 
heaping tablespoon of butter, stir in it two tablespoons of flour, 
and a small teacup of cream, give a boil up, stir in the meat, 
turn out to cool, shape, dip in beaten yolk of egg, roll in cracker 
dust, boil in hot lard. 

Oyster Croquettes. 

Put fifty large oysters in their juice over the fire, simmer them 
about five minutes, or until they are firm and show their leaves, 
drain them from their juice, and set them aside until cold ; then 
chop them quite fine (after having dried them on a clean towel), 
season them with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg (about 
half a small saltspoonful), add a piece of onion half the size of 
a nutmeg, chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, 
and four hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine ; mix all well to- 
gether ; melt in a sauce-pan five ounces of butter, stir in it floui 
until it is a thick paste, add to it half a teacup of the oyster- 
juice after it has been strained, and half the quantity of rich 
cream ; stir over the fire until as thick as mush, then add the 
oysters, stir a minute over the fire, and pour out on a dish to 
cool. When entirely cold, take a tablespoonful to each croquetfe, 
mould them in cracker dust seasoned with pepper and salt, and 
lay them carefully from the spoon into boiling lard to float and 
cover them ; be sure the lard is boiling when you put them in. 
When the under side is brown, roll them over carefully. When 
done, take them out with a perforated skimmer, and drain them 
on a sieve or napkin for a moment ; put but a few at a time in 
the pan, and keep them hot in the oven until all are done ; then 
serve quickly. To fifty oysters you may add two sweetbreads 
parboiled and chopped fine. 

* Croquettes of Cold Veal. 

To twc cups of cold veal minced very fine, add a cup of hot 
boiled rice, mix together with a fork ; beat the yolks only of two 
esgs, stir in two tablespoqns of soft (not melted) butter to a 
smooth paste ; then add a teaspoonful of salt, a tablespoonful of 



110 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Worcestershire sauce, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth. When all are well incorporated, stir in the meat 
and rice, work all well together and mould into croquettes ; beat 
two eggs and pour them over the croquettes ; let them lie in it a 
few minutes, turning them over several times ; then roll them 
in cracker dust seasoned with pepper and salt, and boil them 
in sweet lard until a nice brown. These croquettes are im- 
proved by adding a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a piece of 
onion the size of a pea chopped fine, and half a small saltspoon 
of grated nutmeg. 

* Potato Croquettes. 

Koast eight fine large potatoes, scrape out the inside, press 
them closely in a pan or large boWl, cover them, and let them 
stand an hour or two ; when perfectly cold, add to them six 
ounces of butter, mash them together with a potato-masher 
until thoroughly incorporated ; then add salt and pepper to 
your taste, a small onion (or a piece the size of a nutmeg) 
chopped very fine, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and half 
a saltspoon of nutmeg ; stir all well together ; beat the yolka 
of six eggs, leaving in the white of two, and stir them in the 
potato ; shape them in a wine-glass or croquette mould, roll 
them twice in cracker dust, and brown them in boiling lard; 
put suflBcient lard to float, and cover them in a pan over the fire, 
and have it boiling hot when you put the croquettes in. 

* Meat BaUs. 

Chop cold veal, beef or mutton very fine, removing all the 
skin and gristle; to two cups of meat add one cup of finely- 
grated and sifted bread crumbs, the yolks of two eggs beaten 
light, two tablespoonsful of soft butter, a teaspoonful of salt, 
half an one of black pepper, a teaspoonful of powdered sweet 
marjoram, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; mix all together 
lightly with a fork ; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stifle froth ; mix all well together; flour your bauds, and form 
the mixture into round balls, flattei Tthem until they are half an 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, &c. Ill 

inch thick, and brown them on both sides in boiling lard, serve 
on a shallow dish. 

*Veal Croquettes. 

Boil a calf's head until you can remove the bones, whivjh will 
be in a little over two hours; tie up the brains in a clean chth, 
and boil them with the head for half an hour ; when the head 
is done, remove all the meat from the bones, and chop it as fine 
as possible; grate a pint of bread crumbs, stir them through 
the meat ; season with salt, black and cayenne pepper, a table- 
spoon heaping full of chopped parsley, a piece of onion the size 
of a nutmeg chopped very fine, and a saltspoonful of grated 
nutmeg ; stir all well together ; mash the brains and add to the 
meat ; then add three beaten eggs, and moisten with some of 
the broth the head was boiled in, until of a consistence to mould 
into croquettes ; form them in a wine-glass, roll in cracker dust, 
and boil in lard until a nice brown. 

* Force-meat of Veal. 

Chop as fine as possible one pound of lean veal, eight ounces 
of beef-suet, add four ounces of very fine bread crvmbs, and 
mix all well together ; season with half a teaspoon of salt, half 
as much black pepper as salt, aud a little grated nutmeg ; chop 
very fine a piece of onion as large as a nutmeg and a '•ablespoon- 
ful of parsley, stir in until well incorporated, then add three 
beaten eggs, and mix them well in ; pound all in a mortar for ten 
minutes. You may add a saltspoonful of grated lemon-peel. 

* Force-meat of Beet 

One pound of lean beef, the same of suet ; chop ^bem very 
fine and pound them in a mortar, first separately, then together ; 
add a small cup of very fine bread crumbs, half a teaspoon of 
sweet marjoram, the same of sweet basil, a little thyme, a table- 
spoonful of chopped pai-sley, pepper and salt, and three beaten 
eggs ; then pound all together in a mortar until thoroughly inao'- 
po'ated. 



112 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Codfish Omelette 

Shre d very finely a pint-bowl of codfish, cover with cold water, 
and cook half an hour in a closely-covered sauce-pan; when 
thoroughly tender, strain the water off by pouring through a 
cullender, return the fish to the sauce-pan, beat three eggs and 
stir them into a pint of milk, pour over the fish; take a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, rub in it a tablespoon heaping full 
of flour, stir into the fish and milk, cook gently until it thickens, 
and serve in a covered dish. 

* Ham Omelettes. 

Chop very finely half a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley and a 
small onion ; beat six eggs very light, the whites and yolks 
separately ; then beat them together ; add the ham, parsley, &c. ; 
add a little pepper ; have ready a small frying-pan about six 
inches in diameter, put in a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, 
melt it ; when quite hot, cover the bottom of the pan with the 
omelette, brown it, roll it up with a knife and fork, lay it on a 
hot dish ; put another piece of butter in the pan, and proceed 
as before. This quantity makes six of these little omelettes ; 
they are very fine, and make a pretty dish, laid side by side 
across the dish you serve them on. 

* Cheese Omelette, or Welch Rare-bit. 
Cut in thin slices half a pound of good rich cheese, put it in a 
pan, with two-thirds of a pint of new milk, over the fire; beat 
four eggs quite light, but not separately ; stir the milk and 
cheese occasionally, and when the cheese is entirely dissolved in 
the milk, stir in the eggs ; have ready three slices round the 
loaf of bread, toasted a nice even brown ; butter it and spread it 
very thinly with mustard mixed in cold water ; when the ome- 
lette thickens, which will be in a few minutes (you must stir 
this all the time from the very beginning), pour it ever the 
toast ; add a little salt after you pour in the eggs ; serve on a 
shallow dish. 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, &c. 113 

* Scrambled Eggs. 
Break eight or ten eggs into a large bowl ; do not beat them ; 
Btir in them a little chopped parsley and some pepper and salt ; 
melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter the size of a walnut; 
when hot, pour in the eggs, stir them until they thicken ; serve 
in a covered dish. 

Baked Eggs. 

Melt in a small pan or tin pie-dish a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, ope~n six eggs without breaking them, and pour them 
gently on the butter ; season with pepper and salt, and bake in 
a hot oven until the whites are firm and set ; put a few little 
pieces of butter on top of the eggs before putting them in the 
oven. 

* Boiled Eggs. 

If you use an egg-boiler, put the eggs in it just as breakfast 
is served, pour full of boiling water, and send to table ; they 
will cook sufficiently in five or six minutes. If boiled in the 
kitchen, put them carefully with a spoon into boiling water, so 
as not to crack the shells, and boil them three minutes and 
serve. To poach them, drop them carefully, one at a time, into 
muffin-rings, which you have set in the boiling water ; as soon 
as the whites are set they are done. Serve on a shallow dish. 

* Fried Eggs. 

Melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter the size of a walnut, or 
use the fat of ham ; when hot, drop in the eggs, one at a time, 
being careful not to break the yolk ; when the white of the egg 
is set, they are done. Take them up with a buckwheat-cake 
turner, or an " egg-slice," which comes for the purpose, and 
serve them on a warm shallow dish. 

* Omelette. 

Beat six or eight eggs very light separately ; then mix them 
and beat them together ; add to them pepper and salt, a tea- 
gpoonful of chopped parsley, a piece of onion chopped very fine 
8 



114 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

(the size of half a nutmeg), and a teacup of rich milk, with a 
small even teaspoonful of corn-starch mixed in it; melt in a 
large-sized oval or round frying-pan a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, run it evenly over the bottom of the pan ; when 
hot, pour in the omelette, brown carefully, fold over and serve. 

\ Omelette with Crumbs. 
Grate a teacup of bread crumbs very fine, pour on them a cup 
of rich cream ; beat separately and then together six eggs, sea- 
son them with pepper and salt, add a teaspoouful of chopped 
parsley and a piece of onion the size of a large pea chopped very 
fine ; melt in a large-sized round or oval frying-pan butter the 
size of a walnut ; mix the eggs, cream and crumbs together and 
pour them into the pan, being careful to spread the crumbs 
evenly over the pan; brown very carefully, moving the pan 
round on the stove ; and when brown and set, fold the omelette 
one half over the other, lift it out carefully and serve. This ia 
a delicious omelette when made by the directions above. 

* Corn Omelette. 

Beat the whites and yolks of eight eggs, separately and then 
together; season with pepper and salt; grate the corn from 
three ears, mix with the eggs; melt in a round pan a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, pour in the omelette, brown care- 
fully, double over and serve. Chopped oysters may be used 
instead of corn. 

^ Eggs on Toast. 

Cut slices of bread half an inch thick, toast evenly on both 
sides, butter quite plentifully the side you will put the eggs on. 
Poach the eggs and lay them on the toast, sprinkle them over 
with pepper and salt ; serve quickly. You may scramble the 
eggs and pour over for variety. They are very nice prepared 
either way, for a breakfast relish. 

* Stewed Ham. 

Cut a slice of ham half an inch thick, pare off the rind and 
all the smoked parts, cut it into small pieces, pour boiling water 



CROQUETTES, OMELETTES, dke. 115 

»ver it and let it stand until nearly cold ; then pour off the 
water and put it over the fire in a small stew-pan, with boiling 
water to half eovet it ; let it simmer for five minutes ; add a 
teaspoonful of flour, the same of chopped parsley and half a tea- 
cup of rich cream ; give a boil up and serve. A nice relish for 
breakfast. 

* Ham with Eggs. 
Cut in slices half an inch thick, pare oflF the rind and fry 
slightly in a pan ; take it from the fire, cut it in small pieces, 
return it to the pan, and stir in it four or five eggs, until it begins 
to thicken ; then serve in a covered dish. 

Oyster Omelette, 

Chop very fine eighteen or twenty large oysters, beat six egga 
separately very light, add together the whites and yolks and 
beat again ; mix in a little cold milk a teaspoonful of corn-starch 
and stir it in the eggs ; add the chopped oyster, pepper and 
salt to your taste, and butter the size of a large nutmeg melted 
and stirred in ; melt in a frying-pan a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut ; when boiling hot, pour in the omelette, brown 
slowly, fold over and serve on a hot dish. 

Tomato Omelette. 
Peel and chop very fine four or five fine ripe tomatoes, season 
them with pepper and salt, dust on them two teaspoonsful of 
flour, mix it well in them, so there are no lumps ; melt a piece 
of butter the size of a walnut and stir it through the tomatoes ; 
beat six eggs very light and add them ; melt a small piece of 
butter in a frying-pan, pour in half the omelette, brown slowly, 
fold over, lay it on a hot dish, and proceed the same way with 
the remainder of the omelette. 



SAUCES. 



* Oyster Sauce. 

Drain the juice from twenty-five or thirty oysters and pat it 
m a porcelain kettle, with three-quarters of a pint of rich milk, 
or cream and milk mixed ; rub to a paste three ounces of butter 
and a heaping tablespoonful of flour ; stir it in the milk over 
the fire with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken, then 
add the oysters, and simmer five minutes, stirring all the time • 
serve in a small oyster-tureen, with boiled turkey or chicken, 
or, as directed, with some kinds of boiled fish; add pepper 
and salt to your taste. 

* Egg Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter, stir in it a table- 
spoonful of flour ; when perfectly smooth, add nearly a pint of 
milk, salt to your taste ; have ready three eggs which have been 
boiled twenty minutes, cooled and chopped ; when the same 
thickens, stir in the egg, give a boil up, stirring all the time ; 
serve in a gravy or sauce-boat. 

* Drawn Butter. 

Melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter, stir in it a table- 
spoonful of flour, add half a pint of boiling water, a little salt, 
and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; stir it over the fire until 
it thickens; if too thick, add a little more water; boil up and 
serve in a sauce-boat. 

(117) 



118 CO OKEB T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Caper Sauce. 

Make the sauce precisely as drawn butter, leaving out the 
parsley and adding capers in the place of it, and a tablespoonful 
of the caper vinegar. Half a teacup of capers to half a pint of 
sauce. 

* White Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of fresh butter, stir in it a 
tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste ; add rather more than 
half a pint of milk and a saltspoonful of salt ; stir over the fire 
until it thickens. 

Anchovy Sauce. 

Bone six anchovies, pound the flesh in a mortar until a paste ; 
melt in a sauce-pan three ounces of butter, stir in it a table- 
spoonful of flour ; when smooth, add the anchovies, a little 
cayenne pepper and a tablespoonful of tomato catsup ; mix all 
well together, and pour over a half pint of boiling water ; boil 
two minutes, stirring all the time ; add the juice of a lemon, 
and serve with boiled or baked fish. 

* To Brown Flour. 

Put half a pound of flour upon a clean plate or in a small pan, 
and set it in a hot oven until brown all through; stir it very 
often ; keep it in a dredge-box purposely for it. For gravies 
and some soups. 

Horse-radish Sauce. 

Two tablespoonsful of grated horse-radish ; put it in a basin 
and add to it one teaspoonful of mustard, one of salt, a quarter 
of a teaspoon of pepper, one of sugar and two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar ; add a little cream or milk until a thickish paste. 
Serve with beefsteaks or cold meats. 

* Mushroom Sauce. 

Clean and cut in small pieces one dozen mushrooms, put them 
in a sauce-pan with butter the size of an egg, cayenne pepper 
and salt, tihe juice of a lemon snA two tablespoonsful of mush- 



SAUCES. 119 

room catsup ; stew until tender, then add half a teacup of broth 
and a teaspoonful of flour wet in cold water ; boil up and serve 
with beefsteak or game. 

Mushroom Sauce, ITo. 2. 

Put in a sauce-paii a piece of butter the size of an egg, melt 
it and stir in it a teaspoonful of flour, mix smooth, add a teacup 
of broth, two tablespoonsful of chopped mushrooms (peel and 
wash before you chop them) ; chop very fine a small white onion, 
drop it into cold water, and drain dry; stir it in the sauce, sim- 
mer ten minutes, then add the yolks of two beaten eggs and a 
little chopped parsley; boil up and serve with roast lamb or 
game. 

* Horse-radish. 

Scrape the roots and grate them on a coarse grater ; put the 
grated horse-radish into a wide-mouthed bottle and cover with 
good cider vinegar. Serve with roast beef. 

* Celery Sauce. 

Cut four heads of celery into pieces half an inch long, cover 
with cold water, stew gently until tender, which will take nearly 
two hours ; when it is done, the water should be stewed away to 
a few spoonsful ; stir in this a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
heaping tablespoonful of flour and a little salt ; stir it until it 
thickens and add rich milk until you have it the right consist- 
ence ; it will take rather more than half a pint. Serve with 
boiled turkey or chickens. 

* Mint Sauce. 
To three tablespoonsful of chopped leaves of brook mint add 
three heaping tablespoons of soft sugar and a gill and a half of 
good cider vinegar; stir well together, and serve with roast 
lamb. 

* Sauce or Dressing for Codfish Cakes. 

Put in a sauce-pan two teaspoonsful of dry mustard, one of 
gait, one of sugar, one of lour and one of butter; mix all 



120 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

together and add two tablespoonsful of vinegar and half a sma]) 
teacup of boiling water ; mix thoroughly ; let it thicken over 
the fire, stirring it all the time; when thick and very smooth, 
cool it and set it away for use. It is better made the day before 
it is wanted. To be eaten with codfish cakes ; also used on cold 
meat, &c. 

* Browning for Soups, Gravies, &c., &e. 
Put on a tin dish half a pound of good brown sugar, set it on 
a hot stove or range, stir it with a wooden spoon until it is quite 
black ; then take it from the fire and pour over it nearly a pint 
of boiling water ; let it stand until dissolved ; bottle it, keep it 
corked tight and it will keep for months. Use a few spoonsful 
for browning soups, gravies, ragoiits, &c. 

*Wine Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan a quarter of a pound of butter, stir in it 
a heaping tablespoonful of flour ; when smooth, add a large cof- 
feecup heaping full of sugar (a light brown sugar makes a richer 
sauce than white), stir well together, then pour in half a teacup 
of boiling water, stir all the time on the fire until it boils and is 
clear ; then set it aside in a vessel of boiling water until you 
are ready to use it. It is much better and clearer to be made 
an hour .before it is wanted, and kept hot by setting the sauce- 
pan in a larger one of boiling water ; when ready to serve it, 
add a teacup of good cooking wine, stir it in well, pour it into a 
sauce-tureen, grate nutmeg over the top and serve. 

* Wine Sauce, No. 2. 
Stir to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter and half a 
pound of sugar, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, four wine- 
glasses of wine and one of water ; mix wel' together, and stir 
rapidly over a quick fire until it thickens. 

* A Rich Wine Sauce, Ho. 3. 

Warm but do not melt a cup of butter, stir to a cream with 
three cups of pulverized sugar ; then pour from a N)iling kettle 



SAUCES. 121 

i small teacup of water ; stir it over the fire until it thickens j 
add three glasses of wine and serve. This makes a large 
quantity ; half the recipe is sufficient for five or six persons. 

* Wine Sauce, No. 4. 

Stir to a cream a cofi"eecup full of sifted or pulverized sugar 
and half a cup of butter \ add one egg, beat it well in j then set 
all in a pan of boiling water, stirring all the time until melted ; 
add a tumbler of wine j pour in a sauce-boat, grate nutmeg over 
the top and serve. 

* Egg Sauce for Puddings. 

Warm a tablespoon heaping full of butter, until it is a little 
soft, but not melted ; stir in this four heaping tablespoons of 
white sugar until it is creamed ; beat very light the yolks of two 
and the whites of three eggs and stir them into the sugar and 
butter J bring three wine-glasses of "good cooking wine to a boil, 
pour it boiling hot over the other ingredients, stir all together ; 
when thoroughly mixed, boil over the fire for two or three 
minutes, stirring all the time, and pour into a sauce-boat. 

* Pudding Sauce. 

Stir to a cream three ounces of butter, with a teacup of sifted 
sugar J when very light, grate it thickly with nutmeg, and boil 
a teacup of wine and pour over boiling hot ; beat until it foams, 
and serve. 

Pudding Sauce, 'So. 2. 

One teacup of sugar, the white of an egg, a wine-glass of 
wme, the same of cold water — beaten to a cream. To be used 
in the place of cream. 

* Hard Sauce. 

Stir to a cream a quarter of a pound of butter and two coflfee- 
eups of sifted sugar ; when perfectly light, add a glass of wine 
and beat it well in ; heap and shape it nicely on a glass dish, 
and grate nutmeg over the top ; or you may heap it in a cone 
and curl it over with the handle of a spoon ; begin at the bottom, 



122 COORERT PROM EXPERIENCE. 

run the spoon-handle in half an inch deep and turn it down- 
wards ; do this in rows all the way up to the top ; then grate 
nutmeg over it. 

* Custard Sauce. 

Sweeten a pint of milk with white sugar, heat the yolks only 
of two eggs quite light, mix gradually with the milk ; set the 
vessel in another of boiling water, and stir over the fire until it 
begins to stick to the spoon ; take it off, flavor with vanilla (if 
you use the essence, two teaspoonsful), and set it in a cool 
place for a couple of hours before dinner; serve in a silver, glass 
or China cream-pitcher. To be eaten with blancmange, boiled 
rice or any cold dessert. 

* Currant-Jelly Sauce. 

Melt in a sauce-pan over the fire a teacupful of currant jelly, 
add to it a tablespoonful of butter ; stir well together, pour in a 
glass of wine, give a boil up and pour over venison or mutton- 
steaks. 

* Lemon Sauce. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a sauce-pan over 
the fire; when melted, stir in a coffeecup of sugar (white) and 
half a pint of boiling water ; when the sugar is dissolved, stir 
in a teaspoonful of corn-starch mixed in a little cold water, give 
a boil up, stirring all the time, and add a fine large lemon cut. 
iu slices. 

* Orange Sauce. 

Make it the same as lemon, but substituting a fine large sliced 
orange instead of the lemon. 

Cream Sauce. 
Stir to a cream half a cup of butter and a cup of sugar ; boil 
a teacup of cream and stir it boiling hct in the sugar and butter ; 
add a glass of wine and serve. 



SAUCES. 123 

Soyer's Curry Sauce. 

" Put in a pan four good-sized onions sliced and two of peeled 
apples sliced thinly, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the 
same of lean ham cut fine, a blade of mace, four peppercorns, 
two sprigs of thyme and two bay-leaves ; stir them over a mo- 
derate fire until the onions become brown and tender, then add 
two tablespoonsful of curry-powder, one of vinegar, two of flour, 
a teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar ; moisten with a quart of 
broth or water ; boil until it adheres thickly to the back of the 
spoon ; pass all through a fine sieve, boil again for a few minutes 
and pour it out. If bottled, it will keep in a cool place in win- 
ter-time for a month. Any kind of meat, poultry, fish or game 
is excellent warmed in this sauce and served with boiled rice." 

* Curry Powder. 

Three ounces of coriander-seed, the same of turmeric, one 
ounce of black pepper, one of mustard, one of ginger, half an 
ounce of allspice, half an ounce of cardamom-seed and a quarter 
of an ounce of cumin-seed. Put these ingredients in a cool oven 
for several hours ; when warm (not hot) and thoroughly dry, 
put them in a mortar, pound them fine, sift them through a 
sieve and keep in a well-stopped bottle in a cool place. Keeps 
for years. 

Sauce Fiqnante. 

FOR COLD MEAT OR FISH. 

Pound together in a mortar an ounce of grated horse-radish, 
half an ounce of salt, a tablespoonful of mustard, a quarter of an 
ounce of chopped onion, half a drachm of celery-seed and the 
same of cayenne pepper; add gradually a pint of vinegar, and 
let it stand for a week j then strain through a sieve and bottle 
for use. 



VEGETABLES. 



* White Potatoes. 

Pare then, ihin, wash in plenty of cold water, ar d put them 
Bver the fire i.< boiling water hardly to cover them, in a covered 
vessel, with a tittle salt ; they require from twenty minutes to 
half an hour ; if there is much difference in the size of the po- 
tatoes, cut the larger ones in half before you put them on to 
boil, that they may all be done at the same time; when they are 
tender, drain ofi' the water, cover them almost close and let them 
dry for five minutes or more. This makes them mealy and 
white. 

If you wish to boil potatoes with their skins on, wash them 
very clean and peel a strip all around the potato lengthwise, 
then put them in boiling water and proceed as above. Serve 
potatoes in a covered dish. 

* Hashed Potatoes. 
Prepare and boil the potatoes as above ; after they have dried 
for five minutes or more, remove the lid of the vessel, throw on 
the potatoes a spoonful of salt and a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut; beat them and mash them with a potato-masher until 
the salt and butter are incorporated; then pour over them half 
a cup or more of cream, according to the quantity of potatoes. 
and beat them well with a large fork until perfectly light and 
creamy; keep the pot they were boiled in on one side of the 
range all the time you are preparirg them. The longer you 
beat and mash them, 'he whiter and more light they are. 

(125) 



126 CO OKER 7 FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* New Potatoes. 

Scrape the skins off with a knife, wash them in plenty of cold 
water and put them over the fire in boiling water, with a little 
salt ; try them with a fork — they are spoiled if cooked too much. 
When tender, drain off the water and pour over them a white 
sauce (see Sauces). 

* Fried Potatoes. 

Slice raw potatoes lengthwise very thin, lay them in ice-water 
for half an hour, drain and wipe them and fry in boiling lard or 
sweet drippings a light brown, take them out very dry, sprinkle 
them with salt and pepper and serve quickly. The potatoes for 
this purpose should be cut as thin almost as paper, 

* Fried Potatoes, No. 2 (Saratoga). 

Pare and wash them very clean and cut them down through 
the middle lengthwise in four quarters, have boiling lard to 
float and cover them, brown them in it ; take out and lay them 
on a dish in the oven until all are finished ; then sprinkle them 
with pepper and salt and serve in a covered dish. If preferred 
smaller, cut the quarters down again, making eight pieces of 
each potato (lengthwise). 

* Potatoes Warmed Over. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, season them with pepper and salt 
and put them in a frying-pan, with butter the size of an egg ; 
stir them about until thoroughly hot, dust over them a little 
flour, and stir in them a couple of tablespoons of milk ; give 
another stir round for a minute or two and serve ; or you may 
brown them in the butter by leaving out the flour and milk and 
keeping them covered over, stirring them occasionally. 

* Mashed Potato Warmed Over. 
Make up the potato into little balls the size of a walnut, flat- 
ten them and fry in drippings or lard a nice brown on both 
sides. 



VEGETABLES. 127 

* Browned Potatoes. 

Boil and mash them as for plain mashed potatoes, heap them 
up in a smooth cone shape, paint them over with beaten yolk of 
egg, and brown in a hot oven a few minutes before sending; to 
table 

Oerman Potatoes. 

Put a tablespoonful of butter in a pan over the fire ; when 
hot, slice an onion in it, brown it and cut into it six raw pota- 
toes, which have been peeled and washed ; add pepper and salt, 
chopped parsley and a teacup of hot water ; cover closely and 
simmer until tender. 

* Stewed Potatoes. 

These are used as a relish for breakfast. Cut cold boiled po- 
tatoes in dice, season with pepper and salt ; put in a stew-pan a 
tablespoon heaping full of butter, melt it and add the same of 
flour, stir until smooth, then pour in nearly a pint of new milk ; 
when it begins to thicken, stir in the potatoes, with a/teaspoonful 
of chopped parsley; simmer until the potatoes are thoroughly 
hot, and serve in a covered dish. 

Roast Potatoes. 

Pick out fine large potatoes, wash them very clean and put 
them in a hot oven in a dripping-pan, and bakft them nearly or 
quite an hour ; try them — when soft, they are done. Serve in 
an open dish. 

Baked Potatoes. 

Pare them thin, wash in plenty of cold water, and put them 
around beef or mutton about three-quarters of an hour before 
the meat is done. They will brown very nicely without turning 
or much attention. When you baste the meat, let them have 
their share. 

* Potato Snow. 

Boil the potatoes, dry them, and rub them, a few at a time, 
through a cullender, into the dish you serve them in, letting 



128 CO OKEB Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

them heap up a little in the middle. Do it quickly or they will 
get cold. 

Fried Potato Balls. 

Boil eight potatoes ; dry them until white and mealy ; then 
mash them with a piece of butter the size of an egg, and when 
perfectly cold, add to them a quarter of a pound of grated ham, 
a heaping teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a piece of onion half 
the size of a nutmeg chopped very fine, pepper and a little grated 
nutmeg ; chop all together and mix through with your hands ; 
then add the yolks of three eggs beaten, mix well, and form 
them into little balls, flatten them, dip them in beaten egg, then 
roll them in cracker dust and fry a nice brown, turning them 
when one side is brown. 

Potato Pie. 

Peel and slice the potatoes very thin, butter a deep pie-dish, 
put a layer of potatoes in the bottom, scatter over a very little 
chopped onion (one onion is enough for, a pound of potatoes), 
season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, and a 
few slices of hard-boiled egg ; then another layer of potatoes, 
onion, parsley, egg and pepper and salt, until the dish is full ; 
cut two ounces of fresh butter into little pieces and lay on top, 
pour over a little water, cover with a good crust and bake slowly 
an hour and a half. 

Potato Scallop. 

Boil the potatoes, dry them well and mash them with butter, 
about half an ounce to a pound of potatoes j add two or three 
tablespoonsful of cream ; butter some scallop-shells, patty-pans, 
teacups or saucers ; put in the potatoes, make them smooth on 
the top, cover with bread crumbs moistened with a little melted 
butter, and brown them in a quick oven. 

* Casserole of Potatoes. 

Pare thin and wash twelve very large potatoes, put them in 
boiling water, with a teaspoonful of salt; when done, drain off 
all the water, dry them on the back of the range for fully ten 



YEOETABLES. 129 

minutes, then throw over them a teaspoon of salt and butter the 
size of an egg; when the butter is melted, beat them fine with 
a masher and stir in them half a cofiFeecup of cream ; beat it well 
in with a fork, then mash once more with the masher; put the 
potatoes on a dish (a flat one), form them round and high, make 
Bn opening in the centre as large as you wish to fill (holding 
about a quart), paint the potato all over inside and out with 
beaten yolk of egg, set it in a hot oven ; when a fine brown, 
take it out, fill the opening in the centre with any ragolit, fri- 
cassee or macaroni stewed, and serve quickly. — Ude. 

* Lyonnaise of Potatoes. 

Cut a quart of cold boiled potatoes in slices ; put in a frying- 
pan two ounces of butter, in which fry an onion chopped fine 
until it is about half done, add the potatoes with two more 
ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and 
salt, stir and toss them gently until a light brown color, and 
serve very hot. 

Sweet Potatoes. 

Wash them clean, boil them in their skins, put them on about 
an hour before dinner-time ; when nearly done, peel them and 
lay them side by side in a dripping-pan, and set them in the 
oven for half an hour. 

* Sweet Potatoes Browned. 

Boil them until half or a little more than half cooked, peel 

and cut them in slices half an inch thick, lengthwise of the 

■ potato ; put in a frying-pan a teacup of brown sugar and a pint 

of boiling water ; when the sugar is all dissolved, lay in the 

slices of potato, and brown them evenly on both sides. 

Sweet Potatoes Roasted. 

Wash ohsm very clean and put them in a dripping-pan in a 
hot-<jven ; they req-iire nearly or quite an hour to roast ; if they 
are large, try them by pressing on them with the finger ; when 
soft, they are done 
9 



130 COO KER T FB OM EXPEllIENCE. 

* Fried Salsify. 

Scrape, wash and grate the salsify ; add to it, for two dozen 
roots, three beaten eggs, salt and pepper to your taste, new milk 
sufficient to moisten it, a little dust of flour, and make it in 
cakes the size and shape of an oyster, and fry brown in boiling 
lard or sweet drippings. Or boil the salsify until tender, with a 
tablespoonful of vinegar in the water ; drain and mash it fine ; 
add to it two or three beaten eggs, a little rich milk, a piece of 
butter as large as a walnut mashed with it, and pepper and salt 
to your taste ; flour your hands a little, form it into cakes, and 
fry as above. 

Another Way. 

Scrape and wash it, split it in half, put it in boiling water, 
with a little salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar; boil until 
tender, drain it, and when cold, make a batter of four table- 
spoonsful of flour, the yolks of three eggs and a gill of cold 
water, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth and added 
last ; dip the salsify in the batter and fry in hot lard. 

French Way of Cooking Green Peas. 

For three pints of full-grown but tender green peas, cut a 
pound of bacon into small squares, boil it in water ten minutes 
to extract some of the salt ; then pour off the water and let it 
brown slightly ; wash the peas, and with your hand, whilst 
they are in the water, work into them a piece of butter the 
size of an egg; put them in a stew-pan with the fried bacon, a 
teacupful of cold water, three green-topped onions and a bunch 
of parsley, with a teaspoonful of brown sugar and a little black 
pepper ; simmer them gently for half an hour, or until they are 
cooked, but not broken ; add a very little water, if they jhould 
become too dry ; when done, stir in them a teaspoonful of flour 
mixed with a small piece of butter and two tablespoonsful of 
cream beaten with the yolk of an egg ; take out the onions and 
parsley, boil up and serve. 



VEGETABLES. 131 

* Green Peas. 

I5o 1 them — if very young, half an hour — if full grown, about 
three -cjuarters ; drain them through a cullender, turn them intn 
a vegetable dish, with butter the size of an egg and a little salt 
When peas are a little old, they are improved by putting 9 
couple of teaspoonsful of sugar into the water they are boiled 
in. 

* Cauliflower. 

Wash it very clean and put it whole into a kettle of boiling 
water, with a little salt ; if young and tender, twenty minutes 
will cook it ; if older, it will require a longer time ; try it with 
a fork through the centre of the stalk ; drain it well and serve 
with drawn butter poured over it. 

* Cabbage. 
For boiling, use young, loose heads ; cut them in half, wash 
very clean, and boil and serve as cauliflower, with drawn butter 
poured over. 

* Corn Pudding. 

G-rate the corn from two dozen full ears, with a coarse grater 
which comes for the purpose (or with the little patent machine 
made for the purpose and which lightens the labor), and add to 
it three eggs beaten light, a half teaspoon of salt, a teaspoonful 
of sugar, half a cup of rich milk (if the corn is old, a full cup), 
and about a teaspoonful of flour, not more ; beat all well to- 
gether and bake — an hour and a half, if all in one — if divided, 
three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Butter the dish 
well before y&u pour in the pudding. This is a New England 
breakfast dish. It is nice for tea or dinner. 

* Corn Oysters. 

Grate the corn from a dozen fine large ears of sugar corn, add 
three eggs well beaten, a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, a 
small teacup of rich milk, a piece of butter the size of a walnut 
melted and stirred in, ard flour enough to make them stick 



1 32 CU OKEB T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

together — about half a small teacup. Drop them in boiling 
lard, fry brown and turn over. For breakfast or tea. 

* String Beans. 

JTop and tail them, pulling off the strings in the process ; cut 
them up (holding a dozen at a time in your hand) diagonally 
into pieces the third of an inch in length, throw them in cold 
water as you cut them ; when all are done, wash them, put them 
over the fire in boiling water. They require fully two hours' 
boiling, and if old, much longer ; when very soft, drain them 
through the cullender, throw them back in the pot, add salt, 
butter, a little dust of flour and a couple of tablespoonsful of 
cream; give a boil up and serve; or you may put them in a 
vegetable dish, with only butter and salt, if you prefer it. 

* Turnips. 

Pare them, cut them into rather small pieces and let them lie 
in cold water at least an hour, then put them in boiling water 
and cook them about an hour ; drain them and squeeze all the 
water from them by pressing them between two wooden plates 
or strong stone-ware, throw them back in the vessel they were 
cooked in, mash them by beating them with a potato-masher, 
add to them butter, salt and a couple of tablespoonsful of cream, 
mix thoroughly and serve in a covered vegetable dish ; mash 
them on the range where they will keep hot whilst being pre- 
pared. Sprinkle a little black pepper on the top of them, after 
they are in the dish ; or you may dry them by squeezing them 
through a clean towel until all the water is pressed out. 

* Turnips in Sauce. 

Pare them, cut them in quite small pieces about the size and 
thickness of a kidney bean, lay them in cold water for an hour, 
then put them over the fire in boiling water, cook until tender. 
Cut in this way, they will be done in about half an hour ; drain 
them and dry them slightly by leaving them on the back of the 
range for a few n.inutes, whilst you jirepare the sauce as fol- 



VEGETABLES. 133 

lows : melt in a sauce-pan a heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
stir in it two teaspoonsful of flour and a little salt; add a teacup 
of rich milk, give a boil up, stir it all the time until it thickens, 
then pour it over the\ turnips, shake them well in it, but do not 
stir them ; give them a boil up and turn them in a covered vege- 
table dish and serve. Turnips are very nice prepared in th\s 
way. Serve them with roast or boiled mutton. 

* Cold Slaw. 

Shave very fine half a small solid head of cabbage ; melt in a 
pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, stir in it a heaping 
teaspoonful of flour ; when perfectly smooth, add half a pint 
of milk, with an egg beaten in it ; stir over the fire until very 
thick and beginning to boil, then set it off and stir in the cab- 
bage ; when thoroughly incorporated with the sauce, add a little 
salt and half a cup of cold vinegar, stir well until all mixed, put 
it in the dish you will serve it in, dust a little pepper over the 
top and set away. It should be made half an hour before 
dinner. 

* Stewed Cabbage. 

Tou may use for this the coarser parts of cabbage that are too 
poor for cold slaw. Cut the cabbage up rather coarsely, chop it 
a little and put it over the fire with boiling water, stew it for 
fifteen minutes, then drain oflF the water, add milk to cover and 
stew it until very tender (about ten or fifteen minutes will do 
it) ; then stir in it a tablespoonful of butter mixed to a paste 
with a heaping teaspoon of flour, give a boil up, add pepper and 
salt and serve. This is an excellent dish. 

* Onions. 
Peel and wash a couple of dozen small onions, put them in a 
stew-pan with boiling water ; when they have boiled five 
minutes, drain off the water and fill fresh from the tea-kettle ; 
boil in this until tender. In winter they will require three- 
quarters of an hour. Young onions in early summer will cook 
more quickly. Drain off every drop of water; put on them 



1 34 CO OKER T PR OM EXPERIENCE. 

butter the size of an egg, a teaspoon heaping full of flcur; give 
them a shake to melt the buttci- and mix it with the flour; pour 
over them a teacup of rich milk, give a boil up, and turn them 
into a covered vegetable dish ; add a little salt when you put the 
butter in. 

Fried Cucumbers. 

Pare the cucumbers, slice them about half an inch in thick- 
ness, lay them in ice-water for fifteen or twenty minutes, then 
drain them and wipe each piece separately ; season them with 
pepper and salt and dust them with flour ; fry them in butter 
and lard, equal quantities of each. They should be sliced 
lengthwise. 

* Okra. 

Pick out only those that you can pierce easily with your nail — 
the old ones will never boil tender ; wash them, put them in 
boiling water and cook them twenty minutes or half an hour ; 
drain them, put them in a covered vegetable dish, with butter, 
pepper and salt ; vinegar can be added at the table, if liked. 

* Lima Beans. 

Lima beans should be gathered when only half grown and 
quite green in color ; shell them, wash them and put them on 
the flre in boiling water ; they will require about three-quarters 
of an hour to cook ; when done, drain them through a cullen- 
der, throw them back in the vessel they were boiled in, put in 
them a piece of butter as large as an egg, shake them about a 
little, put in an even tablespoonful of flour, shake again until 
well mixed, add a teacup of rich milk, give a boil up and serve 

* Salsify Boiled. 

Scrape and wash the salsify, and put it in boiling water, with 
(alt and a tablespoonful of vinegar ; when tender, drain it, put 
it in a vegetable dish and pour over it a sauce made with a 
heaping tablespoonful of butter melted with two teaspoons of 
flour ; when sm "oth, stir in a coifeecup of rich milk, give a boil 



VEGETABLES. 135 

up and pour over. Stir this sauce all the tiae until it thickens 
and boils. 

Stewed Carrots. 
Scrape and wash ths carrots, and if large split them througn 
the middle in four quarters, cut them in pieces an inch in 
length, cover them with boiling water, simmer for ten minutes, 
drain off the water, add fresh from the tea-kettle ; stew them 
until tender, which will take about three-quarters of an hour ; 
let the water gradually stew away, so that there will be very 
little on them when done ; stir in them three ounces of butter 
(to a vegetable dish of carrots), nearly a tablespoonful of flour 
mixed into the butter, and half a coffeecup of creanij with salt 
and pepper to your taste ; give a boil up and serve in a covered 
dish. You may add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 

encumbers Stuffed. 

Four or six full-grown large cucumbers, wash them clean, cut 
a round piece out of the side, scoop out all the seeds from the 
centre, making a hole through the cucumber about an inch in 
diameter ; make a filling of nearly a pint of fine bread crumbs, a 
teaspoonful of sweet marjoram, a tablespoonful of chopped 
parsley, an onion chopped very fine, pepper and salt, butter the 
size of an egg melted and poured over, and the yolk of an egg; 
mix all well together, fill the cucumbers, place the piece you cut 
out back again in its place ; tie them round with soft cord, lay 
them side by side in a small baking-pan, each on a slice of bafion, 
dust them with pepper, salt and flour ; put round them half a 
eup of cold water, and bake them about half an hour in a quick 
oven, basting them occasionally; when done, serve them on a 
small meat-dish side by side, each on its piece of bacon ; dust 
some flour in the pan, add a tablespoonful of tomato catsup and 
one of water, boil up and pour over the cucumbers. 

* Egg-plant Fried. 
Slice the egg-plant a quarter of ar inch in thickness, lay it in 
a, pan of cold water, with a teacup of sal* in it, for one hour ; 



136 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

take it out and wipe each piece quite dry, dip it in beaten yolk 
of egg and cover with cracker dust, seasoned with pepper only, 
' and fry in hot lard a nice brown. 

* Baked Egg-plant. 
Pare the egg-plant, cut it in four quarters, and boil until 
tender in water without salt ; when soft enough to mash, drain 
off the water, mash it perfectly smooth with a potato-masher, 
add to it a piece of butter the size of a walnut, salt and pep- 
per ; butter a small baking-dish, put the egg-plant in it, cover 
the top with fine crumbs of bread, put little pieces of butter over 
the crumbs and' dust some pepper and salt ; bake about half an 
hour in a hot oven. This is a delicious dish, 

* Squashes. 

Toung squashes do not require peeling ; cut them in about 
four pieces, and boil in water with a little salt until tender (from 
half to three-quarters of an hour) ; drain them, press them be^ 
tween two wooden trenchers or plates until you can squeeze out 
no more water; throw them back into the vessel they were 
boiled in, mash them with a potato-masher, add a good piece of 
butter, pepper and salt, keeping them hot on the range, and 
serve in a covered dish. 

* Parsnips. 

Scrape and wash them, split them down through the middle — 
if large, in quarters ; boil them in water with a little salt ; when 
tender, drain them, put them in a vegetable dish and pour over 
them drawn butter made with milk. 

* Parsnips Fried. 

Scrape and wash them, and boil them whole until tender ; 
when cold, cut them in slices lengthwise half an inch in thick- 
ness ; put in a pan a mixture of two-thirds molasses and one- 
third water (a cup of molasses and half a cup of water), make it 
hot, lay the parsnips in and bi ^wn them, turning them ovei 



VEGETABLES. 137 

when one side is done ; they will absorb all the molasses and 
watei by the time they are all browned ; serve them dry. 

* Beets. 

Beets in summer-time will take very much less time than 
the will in the winter, when chey become dry and tough. For 
sunjoier beets : wash them clean, and boil them until tender 
(from lialf an hour to three-quarters), skin them — if large, 
slice them ; if quite small, split them in half, and put them in 
a covered vegetable dish, with plenty of butter, salt and pepper, 
or you may make a drawn butter with milk and pour over them. 
Winter beets require a long time to cook — two or three hours, 
according to their size. Serve them with butter, pepper and 
salt. 

* Mushrooms. 

It is to be supposed you have the right kind before you go so 
far as to cook them. Peel the skin from the tops, cut off the 
tough eud of the stem, wash them clean, take them from the 
water, drain them a minute, and put them in a stew-pan, with 
three ounces of butter to each quart of mushrooms, a little 
cayenne pepper and salt, and cook them quite fast for twenty 
minutes or half an hour ; when tender, they are done ; try with 
a fork through the stems. Turn them into a covered dish and 
serve. 

Mushrooms, No. 2. 

Prepare them as above, and put them dry into a stew-pan 
over the fire ; to each quart allow a small teaspoon of salt, half a 
saltspoon of cayenne pepper, three tablespoons of soft butter (not 
melted) mixed smoothly with a tablespoon heaping full of flour ; 
put all together and cook them half an hour or until very tender ; 
when done, stir in a cup of cream, give a boil up and serve in a 
covered dish. 

* Macaroni Soiled. 

The twisted Italian macaroni is the best. Break each twist 
by crushing it in the hand ; break again, if not small enough ; 
it should be two inches long j put it in a stew-pan holding at 



138 CO. KER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

least two quarts and a pint, with a tablespoonful of salt; eimmer, 
but do not boil it, for about twenty-five or thirty minutes, until 
tender, but not broken or split ; shake it frequently and loosen 
from the bottom of the vessel with a spoon ; replenish it from a 
kettle of boiling water, so as to float it all the time. These 
directions will answer for all preparations of macaroni (the water 
must be boiling when you put the macaroni in it, or it will go 
to paste). When done, drain it through a cullender and let it 
stand covered whilst you prepare a sauce, with three ounces of 
melted butter stirred to a paste with an even tablespoonful of 
flour, a saltspoonful of salt and half a pint of milk ; stir it all 
together over the fire until it thickens ; put the macaroni into a 
vegetable dish, pour the sauce over it, shake it through, cover 
and serve. 

* Macaroni Baked in Cream. 

Break up the macaroni and prepare it as above ; drain ofi" all 
the water through a cullender ; when cooked, butter a baking 
dish, put in the macaroni, sprinkle plentifully with salt, cover 
with little pieces of butter and pour over it rich cream, as much 
as the dish will hold. Bake in a quick oven three-quarters of 
an hour. Serve in the dish you bake it in. 

* Baked Macaroni. 

Break up half a pound of macaroni in two-inch lengths, and 
simmer it as for boiled macaroni, drain it well ; have ready 
grated half a pound of good rich cheese, not too old ; butter a 
baking dish, one that will do to serve it in, divide the cTieese in 
half, put one portion in the dish, scattering it evenly over the 
bottom, pour in the macaroni, arrange it smoothly, and put over 
it the remaining half of the cheese, sprinkle it plentifully with 
salt, and pour over it a large cofieecup of cream and milk 
mixed ; bake it three-quarters of an hour ; it should be a nice 
brown on top. 



VEGETABLES. 139 

ISacaroni Pudding. 

" One of the most ixcellent preparations of th b article is tlie 
Timbale de Macaroni." Prepare half a pound of macaroni as 
above drain it well in a cullender ; " beat up the yolks of five 
and the whites of two eggs, take half a pint of rich cream, the 
breast of a cgM fowl and some thin slices of ham minced fine ; 
add to them two or three tablespoonsful of finely-grated Parme- 
san cheese" (this is the pineapple cheese), " and season with 
pepper and salt. Mix all these with the macaroni, and put into 
a pudding-mould well buttered, cover closely, let it steam in a 
stew-pan of boiling water for about an hour. Serve quite hot 
with rich gravy." — Kitchener. 

This may also be baked. It is a European way of preparing 
macaroni, and a very fine recipe. If baked, put it in a rather 
ehallow dish and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

* Stewed Celery. 

Wash the celery clean, cut it in pieces about two inches in 
length, put it in a stew-pan with cold water to cover, and sim- 
mer slowly nearly two hours ; then drain ofi' the water ; add to 
the celery a coffeecup of cream, two ounces of butter with a tea- 
spoonful of flour mixed in it, and a little salt ; give a boil up 
and serve. Serve with boiled poultry or mutton. 

* Hominy. 

PhiladelpMans call by this name the full-sized unbroken 
article ; take of such a cofl^eecupful, wash it in two or three 
waters; its whiteness depends somewhat on this, and put it in 
an earthen sauce-pan with a close-fitting lid, holding about two 
quarts or a little more (no less), fill up with cold water, cover 
closely, and set it far off in one corner of the range the morning 
of the day before you wish it for dinner ; do not disturb it until 
next day; then quite early in the morning bring it forward 
where it will cook slowly, stir it occasionally, add no more water, 
and let it cook until ready to serve for dinner, be that early or 



140 COOKER T FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

late ; towards dinner-time, if not boiled sufficiently dry, leave off 
the lid for a while that the water may all evaporate, as it must 
be dry without draining. When ready to serve it, put in a vege- 
table-dish a piece of butter as large as an egg and a teaspoonful 
of salt, turn the hominy in the dish, make a little hole in the 
middle, put in it two tablespoonsful of cream (not milk), covei 
closely and send to table, to be stirred when helped. If these 
directions are followed, you will have hominy in perfection, 
which is a very excellent dish ; most other ways of cooking it 
you have a compound that nobody eats. 

* Samp or Gritz. 

This is the hominy ground rather coarsely, called sometimes 
breakfast-hominy; it will boil in a much shorter time than the 
above ; put it on in cold water, and boil it an hour or two slowly, 
served plainly and seasoned at the table. When cold, you may 
make a very nice dish of what has been left from another meal 
by stirring in it, to about a pint, three eggs well beaten, butter 
the size of an egg melted in a cup of warm milk, and a little 
bait ; beat it until perfectly smooth, butter a dish, turn in the 
mixture, and bake in a quick oven from half to three-quarters 
of an hour ; when a nice brown, it is done. For breakfast, or to 
eat with roast meat at dinner. 

* Fried Tomatoes with Cream Gravy. 

Wash and wipe large ripe tomatoes, and cut them in slices 
half an inch in thickness, season with pepper and salt, and fry 
them in sweet drippings or half butter and half lard. When 
they are all done, dislj them, and dust a little flour in the pan, 
pour in a teacup of rich cream, give a boil up, pour over the 
tomatoes and serve. A nice breakfast dish. 

* Baked Tomatoes. 
Pour boiling water over them to loosen the skins, peel them, 
and out out any green coie there may be; butter a baking-dish, 



VEGETABLES. 141 

put in the tomatoes whole, two layers, each one seastned with 
pepper, salt, a sprinkling of sugar, and little pieces of butter put 
ever quite thickly, and bread crumbs, rather more crumbs on 
the tcp layer than the other, strew pieces of butter, pepper and 
Bwlt over the crumbs on the top, bake nearly two hours in a good 
j)^en, serve them in the dish they are baked in. Canned toma- 
toes that are put up without cooking are very nice done in this 
way. 

* Broiled Tomatoes. 

Wash and wipe fine large ripe tomatoes, cut them in half 
horizontally through the middle, put them on a gridiron with the 
cut side down over a clear fire. When partially cooked, turn 
them over, and finish them with the skin side next the fire ; lay 
them on a hot dish, and season with butter, pepper and salt. 
A nice breakfast dish. 

Stuffed Tomatoes. 
Take fine large ripe tomatoes, cut out the blossom end, and 
scoop out the insides as clean as you can without breaking the 
skins, chop this fine, add to it equal parts of cold roast'beef, 
mutton or chicken, cut as fine as possible with a chopper, and as 
much green corn as meat, cut raw from the cob, mix all together 
and add a few bread crumbs made very fine, season with pepper 
and salt, and a very little piece of onion chopped fine ; fill the 
tomato skins with this mixture, put a piece of butter as large as 
3 nutmeg on the top of each one, and place them side by side in 
a buttered baking-dish large enough to hold them without put- 
ting them over one another ; bake them nearly an hour in a good 
oven. 

* Stewed Tomatoes. 

Pour boiling water over the tomatoes to loosen the skins, let 
them lie in it for a few minutes, peel them, cut out the green 
core, and squeeze a little of the juice from them, cut them up, 
and put them in a shallow uncovered vessel, season them with 
pepper, salt a teaspoon heaping full of sugar, and set them over 
a brisk fire j cook < Jem twenty minutes or half an hour, stirring 



142 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

them frequently. When they are cooked, add a tablespoonful 
of butter with half as much flour rubbed in it, simKer one 
minute longer and serve. They are very nice thickened with 
grated bread crumbs instead of flour. 

* Succotash. 

* 

Shell a quart of Lima or string beans (the last, after the pods 
are too old for the table), put them in a stew-pan with two 
quarts of cold water, and cook them an hour or until they are 
tender, allowing the water to boil away until there is very little 
on them ; cut the corn from two dozen ears, scrape the cob down 
with the back of a knife, add all to the beans, with pepper, salt, 
and a teacup of cream, simmer gently for twenty minutes, stir- 
ring frequently to prevent burning; then add butter the size of 
an egg, stir it well in and serve. 

* Brown Onion Sauce. 

Peel and slice the onions, melt in a pan a quarter of a pound 
of butter for a quarter of a peck of onions (it is not worth while 
to do less than this quantity as they shrink very much in cook- 
ing), put the onions in with the butter, season with plenty of 
pepper and salt, and set them a little back where they will cook 
slowly, cover them, and cook for two hours. When done, they 
will be a fine, rather light brown all through; dust in a very 
little flour, give a boil up, and serve with roast ducks or game ; 
stir them frequently whilst they are cooking, and watch them 
that they are not on too hot a range or they will burn. 

* Brovn French Beans. 

Put a pint of beans in cold water over night, wash them well 
before putting them to soak, and in the morning put them in a 
sauce-pan or pot in the water they were soaked in, and cook them 
slowly four or five hours, with a little salt in the water ; let the 
water all boil oflF them towards the last, they will then have a 
rich sauce around them, and must not be drained ; turn them 
in a veggtable-dish with butter the size of an egg, and a little 
salt ; cover and serve. Good with roast mutton or poultry. 



VEGETABLES. 143 

* To boil Rice. 

"Wasb the ri 3e in several waters, put it on the fire -rj boiliiig 
water with a little salt, let it boil tea minutes exactly, stirring it 
once, then drain off the water, put the lid closely on the vessel, 
set a little on ona side, and let it steam for exactly ten minutea 
more, then turn out and serve. Rice that is boiled in this way 
is perfectly tender, dry, and every grain separate. A coffeecup 
of rice will fill a small vegetable dish when cooked. 

* Asparagus. 

Cut off the tough ends, peel the skins off up to the heads, 
wash very clean, and tie in little bundles with wrapping cord, 
heads all one way ; put them in boiling water, with a teaspoonful 
of salt. They will require about three-quarters of an hour to 
boil. When the asparagus is done, cut a slice of bread all 
around the loaf, half an inch in thickness, toast it a nice brown, 
dip it quickly into the water the asparagus was boiled in, and 
lay it in the dish you will serve it in ; take the strings from the 
asparagus, lay it on the toast, heads all one way, and pour over 
it a drawn butter made with a tablespoonful of butter melted 
with a heaping teaspoon of flour and a small teacup of the water 
the asparagus was boiled in ; give a boil up altogether in a little 
sauce-pan. 

* Poke. 

Wash the stalks, tie them in little bundles, as asparagus, put 
them in boiling water with a little salt, cook them until tender, 
they will take from half to three-quarters of an hour ; lay them 
in a dish and pour drawn butter over them, but made of boiling 
water from the tea-kettle, in the proportion of that for the 
asparagus ; or you may put a good lump of butter on it and 
dust on pepper and salt; add vinegar at the table, if liked. 

* Spinach. 
Spinach requires to be well washed, or it is apt to be sandy. 
Cut off the roots, so as to allow the leaves to fall apart, wash in 



144 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

several waters, and let it lie in cold water for an hour or more ; 
then put it in boiling water with a little salt, boil about twenty 
minutes or half an hour, drain it through a cullender, chop it in 
a wooden bowl, return it to the vessel it was boiled in ; put in it 
butter the size of an egg, pepper and salt ; stir it over the fire 
until the butter is melted, when it is ready to serve. Put it in 
a covered vegetable dish, with a couple of poached eggs laid on 
it, or two hard-boiled eggs sliced and laid over the top. You 
may add to the spinach before it is dished a couple of table- 
spoonsful of cream, with as much flour mixed in it as would lie 
on a three-cent piece. 

* Green Com, 

This should be cooked on the same day it is gathered; it 
loses its sweetness in a few hours, and must be artificially sup- 
plied. Strip ofi" the husks, pick out all the silk, and put it in 
boiling water ; if not entirely fresh, add a tablespoonful of sugar 
to the water, but no salt; boil twenty minutes fast, serve on an 
open meat dish, covered with a napkin ; or you may cut it from 
the cob, put in plenty of butter and a little salt, and serve in a 
covered vegetable dish. 

It is very nice mixed with Lima beans, after it is cut from the 
cob ; have the beans hot and drained very dry, and stir them in 
the corn after it is out off, with plenty of butter. 

* Stewed Sweet Corn. 

Cut corn that is full grown, but young ani tender, from the 
cob, and put it in a sauce-pan with new milk to cover it, and 
stew slowly for twenty minutes, watching closely and stirring or 
it will burn ; when done, stir in a large tablespoonful of butter, 
with half a teaspoonful of flour stirred in it and a small teaspoon 
of sugar, if the corn is not freshly gathered ; give a boil up and 
serve in a covered dish. 

Corn left cold from the day before may be cut from the cob and 
cooked over in this way — but for ten minutes, instead of twenty, 
and served for breakfast 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 



* Yeast. 
Put a large handful of hops over the fire in three pints of cold 
water, boil it fifteen minutes ; put in a small stone pot five 
tablespoonsful of flour, mixed to a paste with cold water ; add to 
it a tablespoonful of salt, a teacup of white sugar, a teaspoonful 
of ginger and five raw potatoes, peeled, washed and grated. 
When the hops have boiled fifteen minutes, strain the water off 
them boiling hot on to this mixture ; put back into the vessel 
you boiled the hops in, after rinsing it out ; let all come to a 
boil; stir until it thickens. When nearly cold, add a teacup of 
yeast, set it in a warm place \intil perfectly light j then stir it 
down and keep it in a cool place closely covered. 

* Yeast, Wo. 2. 

Two single nandsful of hops, boiled for half an hour in a 
Quart of water (closely covered), strain it on to half a pint or a 
little more rye flour, to make a stiff batter ; add a tablespoonful 
of salt, one of sugar and one of ground ginger ; when cool, stir 
in a teacup of yeast. In winter, put in two tablespoons of this 
yeast and in summer one, for three loaves of bread. Keep it 
in a cool place covered closely. 

Dry Yeast. 

Peel, wash and boil six medium-sized white potatoes ; put 
into a crock three pints of flour, press the potatoes through a 
cullender into the flour ; boil a large handful of hops in three 
10 (145) 



146 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

pints of water for fifteen minutes, strain over the flour and 
potatoes, mix thoroughly, and when only milk-warm, pour in 
cold water enough to make it the consistency of sponge ; soak a 
half pint of dry yeast and add to it ; let it rise very light, stir- 
ring it down three or four times ; then put three quarts of 
sifted corn meal into a bread-bowl and pour the raised yeast into 
the middle of it, mix until quite stiif, roll out, cut in squares, 
and put it on dishes to dry in the air where it is shady ; turn it 
occasionally. It will dry in a couple of days. Put it in bags, 
and hang it up in a dry place. 

* Bread, Ho. L 

Boil six or eight potatoes in a quart of water; when per- 
fectly soft, mash them in the water they were boiled in and 
press them through a cullender, stir into them a quart of boiled 
milk, and when a little cool, add a teacup of yeast and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, with a little salt; let this stand 
all night ; in the morning pour it into a pan or bread-bowl, into 
which you have sifted three quarts of flour; stir all together 
into a dough, adding more flour, if you have not enough ; cover 
it with a clean towel or bread-cloth, and if in winter, set it in a 
warm place until perfectly light, which you can test by pulling 
it from the side of the pan with your finger; if it draws innu- 
merable threads, it is ready to knead ; flour your paste-board 
and turn the dough on it, and knead it for at least three- 
quarters of an hour, and if you double the time, the bread will 
be all the better; add as little flour as you possibly can, only a 
sprinkle now and then on the board to prevent its sticking ; 
divide into even portions, as many as you wish loaves ; make 
each one into a round ball, put them into greased bread-pans, 
flatten them and set them covered in a warm place ; in half an 
hour they will be ready to bake. Bread does not require as hot 
an oven as pastry or cake. You may make the bread with water, 
if you prefer it, instead of milk. 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 147 

* Bread, No. 2. 

Peel and out in pieces two potatoes, boil them in a pint of 
Water J when perfectly tender, mash them, stir in them the 
water they were boiled in, and when cool, add three pints of new 
milk, which has been boiled and cooled, a teaspoonful of salt, 
and a teacup of yeast; stir in sifted flour to make a dough, 
cover this and let it rise all night ; in the morning knead it for 
half or three-quarters of an hour, using very little flour, and let 
it rise again until very light ; then turn it on your paste-board, 
divide it into loaves, knead very little, shape them and put them 
in buttered pans ; let them rise again for about half an hour ; 
then bake in a moderate oven. 

Brown Bread, No. 1. 

To one quart of unbolted flour put a pint of wheat flour, a 
tablespoonful of brown sugar, and a little salt; mix with luke- 
warm water, and proceed as in other bread. 

* Brown Bread, No. 2. 

Make a stifi' sponge in the evening of unbolted flour and a 
quart of tepid water; add a little salt and half a cup of yeast; 
in the morning add half a teacup of brown sugar, knead it well 
in ; make up into loaves, and set them in a warm place to rise. 
When light, bake in a rather hot oven. 

* mountain Bread, No. 1. 

Two pounds of flour, with a quarter of a pound of butter and 
the same of lard rubbed through it; add a little salt, mix it 
with a pint of sour milk, and stir through it a teaspoonful of 
saleratus or soda ; roll out very thin ; bake on tins, mark it with 
a knife and break in squares. Serve hot. 

Mountain Bread, No. 2. 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg rubbed 
into it with your hands half a teaspoonful of salt ; mix with 



148 COOKER Y PR OM EXPERIENCE. 

Boiir milk, add a teaspoon half full of soda dissolved in a little 
hot water, roll out thin, mark into squares with a knife, br(,ak it 
up and serve hot. 

Mountain Bread, No. 3. 

Five pints of sifted flour, with three teaspoonsful of cream of 
tartar mixed in it dry, a teaspoonful of salt ; melt in a half-pint 
of milk, half a pint of butter and lard, equal parts of each ; when 
a little cooled, stir in the flour ; mix well, and then add half a 
pint more of cold milk in which you have dissolved a teaspoonful 
of soda. Knead it well ; the dough should be very soft — if not 
so, add a little more cold milk. Koll out in thin sheets, mark it 
in squares the size you wish to break it, and bake it on tins ten 
minutes in a quick oven. Break it up and serve hot. 

Saratoga Bread. 

Warm two tablespoonsful of butter in a pint of sweet milk, 
stir it gradually into a quart of sifted flour, add half a teaspoonful 
of salt and four tablespoonsful of yeast ; let it rise all night, if 
for breakfast — if for tea, set it at noon. Before baking, add 
half a small teaspoonful of saleratus ; pour into a shallow pan, 
which has been buttered, and bake half an hour in a good oven. 

* B,ye Bread. 

Make a sponge in the evening with three pints of tepid water 
and rye flour to make a stifi" batter ; add a teacup of yeast ; in 
the morning stir in with a spoon rye flour until you have it not 
quite as stiff as wheat bread ; put it in greased pans, wet your 
hand in cold water and smooth the tops of the loaves, set them 
in a warm place to rise for an hour, or until to the tops of the 
pans ; then bake. This quantity will make three good-sized 
loaves. Add a teacup of yeast to the sponge in the evening. 

* Bread Biscuit. 
When the bread is kneaded ready to go in the pans, set away 
in a cool place a pint-bowl of it ; at twelve o'clock beat it with 
an egg, a piece of butter the size of an egg, and half a oup of 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 149 

rich milk. When thoroughly incorporated, stir in as much flour 
as you will need to roll them out, knead it into a loaf, and set it 
to rise in a warm place. When very light, turn it on to the 
paste-board, roll it out, and cut into biscuit; put them in pans, 
let them rise about half an hour longer, and bake about fifteen 
minutes in a quick oven. 

Maryland Biscuit, No. 1. 

One quart of flour, rub in it with your hands half a cup of 
butter, half a teaspoon of salt ; make a stiff dough with cold 
milk, knead it a little, then turn out on a paste-board, and beat 
it with a rolling-pin for twenty minutes or half an hour, knead 
ing into a ball and beating out continually ; roll out half an inch 
thick, cut in small round cakes, prick them with a fork, and 
bake about fifteen minutes in pans well greased. 

Maryland Biscuit, No. 2. 

Two pints of flour, two tablespoons of lard rubbed through it, 
a little salt and one egg; rub all well together, mix with cold 
milk into a stiff dough, and beat two hours with a rolling-pin ; 
mould into little balls ratheK larger than a walnut, flatten them, 
pricK with a fork, and bake ten or fifteen minutes in buttered 
pans. 

Maryland Biscuit, No. 3. 

Rub half a pound of lard into three pounds of flour, put in a 
spoonful of salt, a teacup of cream, and water sufficient to make 
a stiff dough ; divide it into two parts, and work each well until 
it will break off short and is smooth ; cut it in small pieces and 
mould it into little round balls ; give them a slight roll with a 
rolling-pin to flatten them a little, stick them with a fork, and 
lay them, not to touch each other, in greased pans, and bake in 
a quick oven. 

* Very fine Biscuit. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, a quarter of a pound sf butter, a 
piece of lard the size of a walnut, three eggs, a teaspoon of salt. 



150 COOKERY ^ROM EXPERIENCE. 

three boiled potatoes mashed fine, two-thirds of a pint of milk, 
and four tablespoons of yeast ; keep out half a dredge-box of 
flour and make a sponge with the milk, flour, yeast ar d salt, 
Put the flour in a large bowl, make a hole in the middle of it, in 
which put the milk, yeast and salt, stirring it into a sponge at 
ten o'clock in the morning, if the biscuit are for tea. Beat very 
light the eggs, potato, butter and lard ; mix them with the 
sponge at, twelve o'clock, make all up into a loaf and set in a 
warm place until four o'clock ; then roll out, using the flour left 
out and no more ; let them rise again, and bake in a quick oven 
ten or fifteen minutes. 

"Fayal Biscuit." 

Three cups of flour, one cup of milk, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, three eggs beaten light, a teaspoonful of sugar, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar dry in the flour, one of soda 
dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water and added just before 
baking. Mix the eggs, milk, sugar and salt together, stir in the 
flour, then the butter warmed, then the soda, and bake imme- 
diately, either in mufiSn-rings or roll-pan. 

* Soda Biscuit. 

Three pints of flour, a tablespoon of butter and one of lard, a 
teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons even full of cream of tartar, one 
of soda ; sift the cream of tartar with the flour dry, rub the 
butter and lard very thoroughly through it ; dissolve the soda 
in a pint of milk, and mix all together. Roll out, adding as 
little flour as possible ; cut with a biscuit-cutter and bake 
twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

* Tea Biscuit. 

Take as much dough from the above recipe for bread, when 
moulding for the pans, as i70uld make one loaf, work into it a 
quarter of a pound of butter, divide into biscuits, roll them 
round, flatten a little and place them in buttered pans ; let them 
rise until very light, and bake. If you wish them hot, set the 



BREAL, CAKES, &c. 151 

lump of dough in the cellar, or in a very cool place, until about 
four o'clock in the afternoon ; then add the butter, work it 
thoroughly into the dough, mould out and set to rise. 

Tea Biscuit, No. 2. 
Boil a quart of milk, and pour it over half a pound of butter 
and lard, equal quantities of each ; add two tablespoonsful of 
sugar, and one grated potato ; when nearly cool, stir in flour to 
make a thick sponge, add the salt with the flour; then stir in the 
whites only of two eggs and half a cup of yeast. When very 
light, roll out, using as little flour as possible ; cut in biscuit, 
put in buttered pans, set in a warm place until very light, which 
will be in half an hour, and bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

* Potato Biscuit. 

Peel, wash and boil eight large potatoes, dry them oflF, and 
mash them, with a piece of butter the size of a large egg ; add 
a teaspoonful of salt and milk enough to make a batter of them : 
stir in flour to make a stifi' dough, with half a teacup of 
good yeast. When light, roll out and cut in biscuit ; let them 
rise until very light. Bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen 
minutes. 

* Dried Bread. 

As pieces of bread will accumulate sometimes, it is well to 
know a use they may be put to. Spread the slices and pieces on 
a tin dish and set them in a moderate oven until perfectly dry 
and slightly brown j when nearly cold, roll them quite fine and 
keep them in a tin or wooden box. They are nice for frying 
oysters, or for sprinkling over a ham that is to be baked, or for 
any purpose you would use bread crumbs. 

* Breakfast Rolls 
One pint of milk, three-quarters of a cup of butter, or butter 
and lard mixed, half a teacup of yeast, a little salt; make a thick 
sponge of these over night, using all the flour you will need, 



1 52 COOKER Y FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

excepting what you use in rolling them out. In the morning 
flour a paste-board, turn them on it and roll out half att inch 
thick, out them out with a biscuit-cutter, lay one or another 
(two deep), put them in the pans, which must be well greased, 
set them in a warm place, let them get very light, and bake 
fifteen minutes in a hot oven. 

* Hot Rolls. 

One pint oi milk scalded, stir in it a tablespoonful of butter ; 
when cool, the white of one egg beaten light, a little salt, three 
tablespoonsful of yeast and flour enough to make a soft dough ; 
mix with a spoon, set over night, and next morning drop in but- 
tered roll-pans and bake about fifteen minutes. They should 
not be much thicker when mixed up at night than mufiin batter, 
and no more added in the morning. This quantity makes 
twelve rolls. They are exceedingly nice. 

* Split Rolls. 

Boil a pint of milk and let it cool, rub into a quart of flour a 
tablespoonful of butter and one of lard, add half a teaspoonful 
of salt ; make a hole in the middle of the flour and stir in the 
milk, half a teacup of yeast and two teaspoonsful of white sugar ; 
let this stand until morning, then mix all together and set in a 
warm place to rise. When light, knead into a very soft dough, 
and let it rise again until noon, then roll out, cut into round 
cakes, spread very thinly a little butter over each one, fold over, 
making a half circle of each one, and put them in pans to rise 
again. When very light, bake. If you wish them for breakfast, 
set them at noon the day before, and knead them up at ten 
o'clock at night, and in the morning roll out and put in the 
pans. 

* Very Fine Rolls. 

One pint of new milk poured hot over two large potatoes 
boiled and mashed, two ounces of butter and two of lard stirred 
into the potato and milk, a teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, two 
pounds of sifted flour, and half a teacup of yeast ; knead all to- 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 153 

gether for twenty minutes after breakfast if for tea ; when very 
light, roll them out an inch in thickness, put in pans, rise again 
until very light, and bake in a hot oven 

* " Parker-House Rolls." 
At noon mix well with two quarts of sifted flour, one table- 
spoonful of lard, and a little salt ; make a hollc w in the middle cif 
the flour, and pour in it a pint of hot-boiled milk, and set it away 
to cool until evening, then stir in the milk half a teacup of yeast, 
the same quantity of white sugar, and set it in a warm place to 
rise. In the morning knead all well together, not using any 
additional flour ; let it rise until noon ; if it gets light before 
that time mould it over again ; at noon roll out about half an 
inch in thickness, cut into shape, place in buttered pans an inch 
apart, and set in a warm place to rise until tea-time. Bake ten 
minutes in a hot oven. 

* French Rolls. 

One quart of sweet milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, a 
teacup of yeast, a teaspoonful of saleratus ; warm the milk and 
butter together until the butter is melted, stir in half a teaspoon 
of salt, the saleratus dissolved in a teaspoon of hot water, flour 
to make a stiff sponge, then the yeast ; set them over night for 
breakfast, roll out with as little flour as possible, put them in 
buttered pans to rise. When very light, bake in a hot oven ten 
or fifteen minutes. 

* Flannel RoUs. 

Pour eggs, one quart of milk, flour to make a batter the con- 
sistence of muffins ; bake in round tins three inches deep half 
an hour in a quick o^en. 

* Pocket-book Rolls. 

Take at noon one pint of mw ling milk, a piece of butter the 
size of a walnut, a tablespoonfu. of sugar and a little salt; boil 
all together ; when cool, add half a teacup of yeast and two 



154 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

quarts of flour; knead as you would bi.ad, and set it in a warm 
place to rise. It will be light by tea-time ; then knead it again ; 
at bed-time knead it up again, using as little flour as possible. In 
the morning roll out without kneading, about half an inch thick, 
cut out, spread very thin with butter, fold them over, put in k 
buttered pan, let them rise a few minutes and bake. 

* Potato Rolls, No. 1. 

Boil two pounds of potatoes, mash them with two ounces of 
butter, add a pint of milk, a little salt, a gill of yeast, and flour 
enough to make a soft dough ; when light, roll out, cut in cakes 
like biscuit, using as little flour as possible ; set them in a warm 
place to rise, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes. 

* Potato Rolls, Wo. 2. 

Boil and mash five large potatoes, stir in them butter the size 
of an egg, and a little salt; warm a pint of new milk, with a table- 
spoonful of lard in it; beat four eggs and stir them in the pota- 
toes, butter and milk; then add two and one-quarter pounds of 
flour ; mix well with two tablespoonsful of yeast ; set them to 
rise at one o'clock, at four roll them out half an inch thick, put 
them in buttered tins and let them rise until seven o'clock ; then 
bake in a hot oven. 

Graham Rolls. 

Two pounds of potatoes, boiled and rubbed through a cul- 
lender, half a small cup of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, half a 
cup of good yeast, and unbolted flour, to make a stiff dough ; 
set them to rise in the evening, and mould them out in the morn- 
ing and bake for breakfast. 

* Rusk. 
One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, one of butter, five eggs, a 
little salt and half a pint of yeast; warm the milk and butter to- 
gether, stir in the sugar and salt, and when nearly cold, the eggs 
heafpn l^o-lit, and flour to make a stiff sponge. Sft them over 



BREAD, CAKES, ^C. 155 

night ; put the yeast in last. Next morning, when very light, 
mould them out, or roll them ; add as little flour as possible, 
only just enough to roll them with ; put them in buttered pans, 
and set in a warm place. When very light, bake in a quick oven 
ten or fifteen minutes. 

Bread Cakes. 

Put to soak over night a quart bowl full of broken stale bread 
in cold water to cover it ; in the morning, strain through a clean 
cloth and squeeze out all the water, mash the bread in a basin 
with the back of a wooden spoon, add three beaten eggs, a little 
salt, a pint of milk, and flour to make a batter ; bake as buck- 
wheat cakes. 

Canada Egg Sread. 

Half a pint of corn meal, the same of flour ; stir in half a 
teaspoonful of cream of tartar, a tablespoonful of butter, warmed 
so that it will stir in, but not melted, one cup of milk, three 
beaten eggs and a small half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
teaspoonful of hot water, beaten in last. This makes a stiff 
batter. Bake in square tins, mark it with a knife the size you 
wish it, break it up and serve hot. 

* Breakfast Cake 

As much bread dough, when ready to make into loaves, as 
will fill a small kitchen-bowl ; work into this with your hands a 
piece of sweet fresh lard the size of an egg, sprinkle your paste- 
board lightly with flour, roll out as thin as you can get it, put it 
in a shallow pan to rise for twenty minutes or half an hour, and 
bak;3 fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven. Very nice. 

* Breakfast Cake. 

One quart of sifted flour, one egg, a little salt, a, tablespoonful 
of butter, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, one of soda, and 
a pint of milk. Warm the milk, stir the butter in it when cool, 
add the egg beaten, salt, the flour with the cream of tartar sifted 
in it, and last the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water 



156 COOKEBT FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Bake about twenty minutes in flat square tins, mark the crust 
through with a knife, break up, and serve hot. 

Tea Cake. 

Three cups of bread-dough ready for loaves, three cups of 
sugar, three eggs, one cup of butter, one teaspoon of cream of 
tartar, half an ounce of soda ; mix all together thoroughly, soda 
last, and bake in loaf or flat tins. 

Rice Griddle Cakes, No. 1. 

Two cups of boiled rice mashed, one cup of flour, one of corn 
meal; mix with cold milk to form a stiffish batter, sift two teaspoons 
of cream of tartar in the flour, and dissolve a small teaspoon of 
soda in a tablespoonful of hot water, and add it after stirring in 
-two beaten eggs. Bake on. a griddle the same as buckwheat 
cakes. 

* Rice Griddle Cakes, No. 2. 
Pick and wash half a pint of rice, boil it very soft, drain it, 
and stir in it a piece of butter the size of an egg. When cool, 
sift over it one pint and a half of wheat flour, add a saltspoonful 
of salt, beat five eggs very light and stir into it, add a quart of 
milk, beat the whole very hard, and bake on a griddle. 

* Rice Griddle Cakes, No. 3. 

Pick, wash and boil half a pound of rice until very soft, drain 
ofi" the water, mash it with a potato-masher, stir in butter the 
size of an egg. When cool, stir in six eggs beaten light, half a 
pound of flour, and a quart of milk ; beat all well together and 
bake on a griddle. 

* Indian Meal Breakfast Cake. 

Scald a quart of Indian meal with boiling water until like 
mush, add a teacup of boiled grits or fine hominy, a little salt, 
two beaten eggs, and milk enough to make i. thick batter, a small 
teaspoon even full of saleratus, put in last, bake in square tins 
well buttered, in a qui el- oven ; cut in squares and serve hot. 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 157 

* Oatmeal Breakfast Cakes. 
To a pint-bowl of cold oatmeal mush, stir in it about half a 
sup of hot water (use )nly enough to moisten it, and beat it 
smooth), then add two eggs beaten very light, separately and 
then together ; add cold milk to make a thin batter, and a tab.e- 
spoonful of flour ; if they break in baking, add a very little more 
flour. 

* Buckwheat Cakes. 

Three pints of buckwheat meal, two heaping tablespoonsful of 
unbolted flour, or one of white flour and one of Indian meal, a 
teaspoonful of salt ; stir these together, adding gradually water 
slightly warm to make a stifi' batter, beat for fifteen minutes, 
then add half a cup of good yeast, a tablespoonful of molasses, 
and a little more water, beating well together ; cover them, and 
set them to rise in a warm place over night if for breakfast ; in 
the morning, if you find them too thick, add a little more water 
with a saltspoonful of soda dissolved in it. 

Velvet Cakes. 

One quart of milk, the same of flour sifted, three eggs beaten 
light, and a little salt; stir the milk gradually into the flour, 
beating well ; add the salt, then the eggs, and a wine-glass of 
yeast; stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter, beat thoroughly, 
set it in a warm place at noon, if for tea, and when light, bake in 
muffin-rings ; if for breakfast, set them at right. 

Corn-batter Cakes. . 

One pint of corn meal, a small teaspoon of soda, the same of 
salt. Pour boiling water over the Indian meal, beating all the 
time until like mush; let it stand until cool, add the beaten 
yulks of four eggs, a handful of flour, with two teaspoonsful of 
cream' of tartar in it, stir in milk until like buckwheat cakes, 
then add the soda in a spoonful of hot water, whites of eggs 
last ; bake on a griddle. 



158 CO OKEE Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Wisconsin Cakes. 
Two teacups of unbolted flour, one of white wLeat flour, two 
eggs and a pint of cold milk. Beat the eggs and stir in flour 
and milk alternately, adding a little salt; heat the pan hot in 
the oven ; put a piece of butter the size of a small nutmeg in 
each little cup, pour each one half full, and bake in a hot oven 
fifteen minutes. These cakes, the Rye Puffs, and Laplanders, 
require to be baked in a pan which comes for the purpose and 
can be procured at any hardware store. 

* Flannel Cakes. 
Beat three eggs separately and then together ; stir in alter- 
nately flour to make a thin batter with three pints of buttermilk 
or sour milk ; melt a tablespoonful of butter and add it with a 
little salt ; last a teaspoon even full and a half of soda dissolved 
in a little warm water, and bake immediately on a hot griddle. 

* Baised Flannel Cakes. 

Warm a quart of milk, put in it a tablespoonful of butter, a 

little salt and two beaten eggs; stir in flour until it is a thin 

batter ; add half a teacup of yeast ; beat all well together ; set 

them over night, if for breakfast ; at noon, for tea. Bake on a 

hot griddle. 

* Dlush Cakes. 

Mould cold boiled mush into balls, with a little flour, to pre- 

ven(, its sticking to your hands, flatten them half an inch thick, 

and bake a nice brown on a hot griddle ; turn them over when 

one side is brown. Split and butter them, and send to table 

hot. 

* Buttered Toast. 

Out even slices round the loaf half an inch thick, toast them 
evenly brown on both sides, dip each slice quickly in boiling 
water and cover with melted butter, which must be prepared 
before you commence to toast the bread;, sprinkle each slice 
with a very little salt, lay them on each other as you butter 
them. Set them in a hot oven for a few minutes, and serve. 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 159 

Dried Toast. 

Cut and toast as above, and serve quickly without butter, in a 
toast-rack. 

* Cream Toast. 

Cut and toast as for buttered toast four or five slices of bread, 
boil a pint of cream, dip each slice in the boiling cream, laj 
them in a covered dish ; add a little salt to the cream, pour it 
over the toast, cover and serve. 

* MUk Toast. 

Cut slices from a loaf of stale bread half an inch thick, and 
toast them evenly brown on both sides ; whilst the bread is 
toasting, boil three pints of milk, and when it comes to a boil, 
stir in it a quarter of a pound of butter rubbed to a paste with 
two tablespoonsful of flour and a little salt. When it begins to 
thicken, dip each slice of toast in it, and lay them evenly in a 
deep dish. When all are done, pour over the milk, cover 
closely and. serve. 

New England Breakfast Pudding. 
Boil a quart of milk in the evening, and pour it whilst hot 
very slowly over seven heaping tablespoonsful of Indian meal, 
stirring all the time ; then add a little salt and half a teacup of 
molasses ; butter a Turk's-head pudding-dish, pour the pudding 
in, and set it in a cool oven and let it remain all night, until 
breakfast time. Serve hot. To be eaten with butter. A stand- 
ing Sunday morning breakfast-dish in some parts of New Eiig- 
land. 

* Laplanders. 

One quart of flour, a quart of milk, two eggs, a teaspoon of 
salt; beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately. 

Beat all together ; bake in a Wisconsin pan ; put the pan into 
the oven and make it hot, then put a piece of butter the size of 
a hickory nut into each compartment. When melted, half fill 
them with the batter, and 1: ake quickly in a hot oven. 



160 CO OKEB T PR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Rye Puffs. 

One pint of milk, four eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and 
rye flour to make a thin batter. These must be baked in the 
same pan and in the same way as Wisconsin Cakes. 

* Pop-overs. 

Two cups of flour, two of milk, two eggs, butter the size of an 
egg, a little salt ; rub the butter in the flour, add the eggs beaten 
very light, separately and then together, then the salt and milk ; 
bake quickly in small tins or cups in a hot oven ; fill the tins 
only half full ; eaten hot with butter for breakfast or tea. 

*Wheatlets. 
Three cups of flour, three eggs, one pint of new milk, and a 
little salt; mix and bake the same as Wisconsin cakes. 

* Raised Muffins, No. 1. 
Three pints of flour, three eggs, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, two teaspoons heaping full of white sugar, half a cup of 
yeast, and a quart of milk ; warm the milk with the butter in it, 
cool a little, stir in the sugar, add a little salt; stir this gradually 
into the flour, then add the eggs and yeast. Make them up at 
noon, if wanted for tea, and when light, stir in half a teaspoon 
of soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water; add just before 
you put the batter in the rings — fill them only half full. 

Raised Muffins, No. 2. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, three ounces of butter or butter 
and lard mixed, a teacup of yeast and flour to make a stiff batter. 
Beat the eggs separately, stir in the flour and milk alternately, 
melt the butter and stir it in last ; then add the yeast and a 
little salt. If for breakfast, set them at ten o'clock at night ; if 
for tea, at noon. Bake on the griddle in muflSn-rings. 

* Bread Muffins. 
One cofl'eecup of dough ready for the pans, four eggs, a pint 
and a half of milk, three tablespoonsful of melted butter, a little 



BREAD, CAKES, &c. 161 

salt, a teaspoonful of white sugar; mix all together, and stir in 
flour to make a stiff batter; when very light, stir in half a tea- 
spoon of saleratus dissolved in a little warm water, and bake in 
tin rings on a hot griddle. 

Corn Muffins, "So. 1. 

One coffeecup of sweet milk, one of buttermilk or sour cream, 
one heaping tablespoonful of lard, one coffeecup of boiled rice, 
one of corn meal, and two eggs beaten separately ; beat the 
buttermilk, rice, lard and yolks of eggs together ; then add the 
whites beaten to a stiff froth, the flour, and the sweet milk, with 
half a teaspoon of soda dissolved in it, last of all. Bake in 
muffin-rings. 

Com Muffins, No. 2. 

One quart of milk, two eggs, two tablespoonsful of sugar, one 
cup of flour, a little salt, a tablespoonful of melted butter, two 
teaspoons of cream of tartar dry in the flour, and a teaspoonful 
of soda dissolved in a little of the milk ; mix all together, and 
add corn meal enough to make a batter; stir in the soda last of 
all. Bake in muffin-rings, set on a hot griddle, turning them ; 
or you may set the muffin-rings in a dripping-pan and bake them 
in a hot oven. 

Rice Muffins. 

One pint of boiled rice, one of sweet milk, five eggs, one half 
cup of butter and lard mixed, one pint of bread sponge and a 
pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of the eggs, the rice, and butter 
and lard together ; then add the sponge, beat it in with the 
milk ; stir in flour enough to make a stiff batter, let it rise very 
light, and beat in the whites of the eggs just before baking. 

Potato Muffins. 

Boil as many potatoes as will make two pounds when done ; 

mash them very fine ; stir in two tablespoonsful of butter and a 

teaspoonful of salt ; thin them with cold milk ; stir in two 

pounds of sifted flour and ha'f a cupful of yeast; beat them well 

11 



162 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

and make a thick batter with cold milk. Set them in a warm 
place to rise. Bake in muffin-rings. 

* Water Muffins. 

Put four tablespoons of yeast into a pint of lukewarm wster, 
add a teaspoon of salt ; stir in gradually as much flour as will 
make a stiff batter, cover the pan and set it to rise in a warm 
place — over night, if for breakfast — and at eight o'clock in the 
morning, if for tea. Bake in muffin-iings. 

* Quick Muffins. 

One quart of flour, a pint of milk, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar and one of soda; 
sift the flour and cream of tartar together, melt the butter in the 
milk, leaving out a little to dissolve the soda in. When the 
milk is cool, but not cold, stir in the flour, add two beaten eggs ; 
stir in the milk and soda last; butter muffin-rings, fill them 
half full and bake on a griddle. 

Sally Lunn, No. 1. 

Three eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately, one quart of 
milk, a quarter of a pound of butter, two tablespoonsful of home- 
made yeast (more, if it is baker's), a tablespoon heaping full of 
sugar, flour enough to form a stifi" batter, and a little salt. Warm 
the butter and milk together. When milk-warm, add the yeast, 
then the yolks of the eggs, then the flour, and last the whites ; 
mix well together, and let it stand to rise four or five hours ; 
then beat it up, pour it into the pan or Turk's head, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Serve hot. 

Sally Lunn, No. 2,' 

A quarter of a pound of butter, one quart of milk, three 
tablespoons ev 3n full of sugar, half a teacup of yeast, the yolks 
of three eggs, ind flour enough to make a stifi' batter ; then the 
whites of the eggs beaten very light ; when light, which will be 
in four or five hours, beat it up, put in buttered pans, and let 
it rise three-quarters of ^n hour more. 



BREAD, CAKES, a.c. 163 

* Sally Lunn, No. 3. 

One pint of milk, three eggs beaten separately, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful of salt and three pin^s of flour, 
half a teacup of yeast, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 
warmed in the milk ; mix all together in the morning, if it is 
wanted for tea; when light, stir it down, pour into the pan and 
let it rise again. If all in one, bake nearly an hour. 

Sally lunn without Yeast. 
One quart of flour, half a pint of milk, two eggs beaten light, 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, a 
teaspoonful of soda and two of cream of tartar ; beat the eggs, 
add the milk, soften the butter and stir in itj then the sugar, 
then the flour with the cream of tartar in it dry ; then beat all 
well together, and add the soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of 
warm water ; pour into pans, bake twenty minutes. 

* Very fine Waffles, No. 1. 

One quart of sour cream, a pint of sweet cream, six egg? 
beaten light, a little salt, two quarts of flour and a large teaspoon 
even full of soda, rolled fine and dissolved in a tablespoonful of 
hot water. Beat the eggs and stir in them the cream and flour 
alternately; beat well; then add the soda, stir hard, and bake 
in waffle-irons. 

* Waffles, No. 2. 

Three pints of sour cream, seven eggs beaten separately, a tea- 
spoonful of soda and a little salt ; stir flour which has been 
sifted into the yolks of the eggs, alternately with the cream, 
until all the cream is in the mixture ; add the salt, make them a 
little thicker than they are to be when baked, to allow for the 
whites, which are to be stirred in just before they are baked ; 
then add the soda dissolved in a spoonful of hot water. Bake in 
waffle-irons. Serve with cinnamon and sugar in a separate dish. 

Waffles, No. 3. 

One quart of flour, a pint of sour milk, butter the size of an 
egg, a little salt and a teaspoonful of soda. Rub the butter into 



164 QO OKER Y PR OM EXPERIENCE. 

the flour with the salt in it, and mix into a bj,tter with the milk j 
add the soda dissolved in a little hot water, and bake in shallow 
tins. 

* Waffles with Yeast, No. 4. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, one quart 
of milk, four eggs, and a teacup of yeast ; warm the milk and 
butter together j add, when cool, the eggs beaten very light sepa- 
rately and then together, alternately with the flour ; beat it until 
perfectly smooth, then put in the yeast and let it rise five or six 
hours. Bake in waffle-irons. 

* Rice Waffles. 
Pick and wash half a teacup of rice, boil until very soft, drain 
oflF the water, mash the rice, add two tablespoonsful of butter. 
When cool, add three eggs beaten light, and three-quarters of a 
pound of flour J mix with a pint of milk; bake in waffle-iron. 

Corn Bread, No. 1. 

One quart of buttermilk, a teacupful of flour, four eggs, a 
tablespoonful of butter, and a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of hot water, and Indian meal to the consistence 
of sponge cake. Stir the buttermilk gradually into the flour, 
beating well ; melt the butter and stir it in, add a teaspoonful 
of salt, beat the eggs and stir them in, then stir in the corn 
meal, and last the soda. Bake in square tins. 

Corn Bread, No. 3. 

One pint of Indian meal, half as much wheat flour, a table- 
spoonful of butter, a teaspoonful of sugar, half a teaspoonful of 
Bod.i, one of cream of tartar, a pint of milk, two eggs beaten 
light; stir all well together as above; bake in square tins half 
an hour. 

Com Bread, No. 3. 

One quart of buttermilk, four heaping tablespoonsful of wheat 
flour, four eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, Indian meal sufficient 



BREAD, CAKES, Jc. 165 

to make it the consistence of sponge cake, one teaspoonful of 
Bodaj stir the buttermilk gradually into the flour, beating it 
well, add a teaspoonful of salt, then the eggs beaten light, melt 
the butter and stir in ; then beat in the Indian meal, and last the 
soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of warm water; beat up and 
bake in shallow pans. 

Corn Bread, No. 4. 

One pint of sour milk, one pint of corn meal, three eggs, two 
tablespoonsful of sugar, one of melted butter, and a teaspoon of 
saleratus or soda. Stir the milk gradually into the Indian meal, 
add the eggs beaten very light, then the sugar, stir in the melted 
butter, then the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water, 
pour in shallow pans, and bake about fifteen minutes. 

Mississippi Corn Bread. 

One pint of boiled rice mashed fine, one pint of corn meal 
(sift the corn meal), a tablespoonful of butter or lard ; mix with 
sour milk, add last a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a table- 
spoonful of warm water ; bake in a pan like pound cake in a hot 
oven. 

Corn Lodgers. 

One quart of corn meal, a tablespoonful of lard, two eggs, a 
teaspoon of salt; scald the meal with the lard in it with boiling 
water, cool with a little milk, add the eggs (beaten light), beat 
very hard for ten minutes, make them thin enough with cold 
milk to drop oflf the spoon and retain their shape in boiling lard ; 
serve hot; have the lard boiling hot when you drop them in. 

* Corn Puffs. 

Scald five tablespoonsful of corn meal ; while hot, add a piece 
of butter the size of an egg ; when cool, two eggs beaten light, 
separately, eight tablespoonsful of wheat flour, two cups of milk. 
and a little salt ; bake half an hour in a hot oven in round tins 
the size of muffins. 



166 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE 

* Mush. 

Put two quarts of water in a pot ; when it boils, stir in Indian 
meal until thick as you wish it, keeping it boiling all the time ; 
add a little salt and boil an hour, stirring it frequently, over a 
fire not very hot, or it will burn. When done, pour it into a 
deep dish. When cold, cut in slices half an inch thick, dust 
with flour and fry in hot lard. 

Fried Mush, No. 1. 

In two quarts of boiling water stir corn meal until a smooth 
mush, add a teaspoonful of salt, boil half an hour ; have hot in 
a small pan a tablespoonful each of butter and lard; drop the 
boiling mush into the hot fat in little pats, fry a light crisp brown 
on both sides. 

* Fried Mush, No. 2. 

Take a kitchen-bowl full of cold mush, stir in it a piece of 
butter the size of a walnutj warm the butter a little, but do not 
melt it ; then add two eggs, beaten separately and then together, 
a little salt, and drop it, a tablespoonful at a time, in hot drip- 
pings or sweet lard. Very nice for breakfast. 

Slap Jacks. 
One quart of Indian nieal, scalded with boiling water, until 
the consistence of mush ; when cool, add a teacup of flour, a 
teaspoonful of salt, a teacup of yeast, and milk to the con- 
sistence of buckwheat cakes. Bake on a griddle. 

Pone. 

One pint of milk, a pint and a half of Indian meal, three eggs 
beatec. light, a piece of lard the size of an egg, and a teacup of 
yeast; mix all together and set in a warm place to rise. When 
light, pour it in a buttered pan and bake nearly iv quite an hour 
in a moderate oven. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 



Eemarks on Pastry and Puddings. 

To make pastry successfully, in the first place use only the 
best flour, and sweet fresh butter, and have a cool place to make 
it in. It is almost impossible to make puff paste in warm 
weather. If you attempt it, have the butter in iee and use ice- 
cold water to mix the crust with ; a marble slab is the best pie- 
board, but one made of pine answers very well. Have the flour 
sifted before you use it, and see that everything is in readiness 
for you before you commence ; make the crust and set it in a 
cool place before the last rolling, whilst the filling for your pud- 
dings or pies is being prepared. See that the oven is hot before 
you put your pastry in ; if not hot enough, the crust will not 
rise, and all your trouble will be in vain ; if you are inexperi- 
enced, try it by baking a little piece of the paste ; if it rises 
quickly, put in your pies. It is better to see that the oven is 
hot before you commence filling your pies, as they are not so nice 
if left to stand ; they should be put in as soon as the last touch 
is given to them. When the pies come out of the oven, stand 
them on a waiter or board until cool ; then wipe off the bottoms 
of the pie-dishes, and set them away in a dry, cool place, never 
in the cellar. Pie crust that is set away in the cellar loses all 
its crispness and becomes soft and moist. 

Very good pie-crust may be made with two-thirds lard and 
one-third butter, and some persons use only lard ; but the crust 
is much better to be made partly with butter ; a very good sub- 
stitute for butter is beef drippings properly prepared, or suet 
from the kidney pa,rt of the beef rendered out, and melted to- 
gether with the same quantity of lard ; then set away in a cool 

plaes and used as wanted. 

(167) 



168 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

Batter-puddings should be entirely free from lumps. To insure 
this, first beat the eggs very light, then stir the flour into them. 
When thoroughly mixed, add the milk gradually, beating all the 
time ; scald your pudding cloths or bags, wring them very dry, 
dust the inside with flour, pour in the pudding, and drop them 
Into boiling water, and keep the water boiling all the time until 
the pudding is done, or it will not be light. 

Plum-puddings when boiled and hung in a dry, cool place 
will keep for months; let them cool on a dish or drainer, and 
hang them in the cloths they were boiled in. When wanted, 
drop them into a pot or kettle of boiling water, and continue to 
boil one hour. This will only answer for the recipe marked with 
a star. All kinds of dried fruit should be prepared for use the 
day before it is wanted — raisins seeded, currants washed and 
dried, and citron and candied orange or lemon peel cut in strips 

* Plain Pie-Crust. 

Sift a quart of flour into a pan, cut into it half a pound of 
lard and a quarter of a pound of butter, add a saltspoonful of 
salt, and cold water to form a dough ; stir it together with a 
knife, using your hands as little as possible ; flour the pie-board 
and roll it out; dust it with flour, and roll out again; repeat 
this again until you have rolled it out four times ; set it aside 
for half an hour, roll out again, and use as required. Use as 
little flour as possible in rolling out. 

Crust for Apple Dumplings and Pot-pie. 

For this crust use Becker's prepared superfine flour, one cof- 
feecup of rich milk, with one egg beaten in it, and flour to roll 
out stirred in ; the same for Pot-pie ; no shortening needed — 
for boiled apple dumplings only — the baked require a richer 
piste. 

* Puflf Paste. 

Weigh and sift one pound of flour, and divide it evenly in two 
parts ; cut a pound of the -best butter into quarters ; cut a quar- 



PASTRY, T^UD DINGS, &c. 169 

ter of the butter into one part of the flour, reserving the other 
part to roll in with the butter; mix in with a knife a tumbler 
of cold water, flour your pie-board with some of that you re- 
served, turn the paste on it, dust with flour, and roll out half an 
inch in thickness; dust again with flour, fold up your paste and 
roll out again ; cut ou this another quarter of the butter, dust 
with flour, fold over, and roll out ; repeat this again, and pro- 
ceed thus until all the butter is rolled in, rolling out twice for 
each quarter of a pound of butter, making eight times in all ; 
When the crust is rolled out for the last time, sprinkle it again 
with flour, and cut it in strips the width of your hand ; lay these 
on one another, and cut the pile in squares, and. use as required. 
The flour you reserved should nearly all be used in the rolling 
of the paste, leaving very little to roll out in the shapes you 
wish it. This crust requires a hot oven, and will rise two inches 
in height if prepared properly. Use no salt but what is in the 
butter. 

* Half-pnff Paste for Fruit Pies. 

Sift one pound of flour into your paste-bowl, cut in it a quarter 
of a pound of lard, add a small pinch of salt, mix to a dough 
with cold water, flour your pastry-slab or pie-board, turn out the 
paste, roll it out half an inch thick, sprinkle lightly with flour 
and roll again ; lay on it half a pound of butter, fold the crust 
over it, roll out as before, dust lightly with flour, fold and roll it 
again ; repeat this once more ; set aside in a cool place for half 
an hour, give it another roll, and it is ready for use. 

French Way. 

Put one pound of flour on your pastry-board, with two ounces 
of butter ; rub well together with your hands, make a hole in 
the centre, in which put the yolk of an egg and the juice of a 
lemon, mix with cold water, roll it out about half an inch thick, 
lay on it half a pound of butter, fold the crust ovei, flour it a 
little and roll out thin ; repeat this twice ; set it aside for a 
quarter of an hour, give it another roll, and it is ready for use 



i70 COO KER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

French. Puff Paste. 
Weigh and sift a pound of flour, put it in a -wooden bowl, 
make a hole in the centre and put in the yolk of an egg and the 
juice of a lemon, mix to a paste with very cold water (a little 
more than half a pint), flour your paste-board and turn the 
paste on it, work it lightly into a lump, and let it stand a few 
minutes ; have ready a pound of butter, lay it on the centre of 
the paste, bring the edges round over the top of the butter to 
cover it completely, sprinkle a little flour over and roll out half 
an inch in thickness; dust with flour, fold the crust over on 
both sides and across the ends, making it into a small square ; 
roll out again to half an inch in thickness, sprinkle lightly with 
flour, fold again and proceed as before, until you roll it six times 
in all ; then set it away for an hour in a cool place, after which 
roll it out once'more, and it is fit for use. Be careful that you 
use very little additional flour in rolling out. 

English Puff Paste. 
Sift and weigh a pound and a quarter of fine flour, cut in it 
half a pound of fresh butter, and mix it with half a pint of cold 
spring-water ; set it by for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out 
thin, lay on it three-quarters of a pound more of butter, throw 
on it a little flour, fold over and roll out thin ; repeat this three 
times, and set it in a cool place for an hour, when i.t will be 
ready for use. 

* Suet Shortening for Pies. 
Chop a pound of fresh beef suet, pick out all the strings, put 
it in a stew-pan with a pound of sweet lard, melt them together ; 
when the suet is entirely melted, strain it through a fine tin 
strainer and set away in a cold place, and use it in the place of 
butter for plain pie- crust. 

Suet Crust for Dumplings. 
Pick and chop half a pound of beef suet, add to it one pound 
and a quarter of flour, a little salt and half a pint of milk or 
water ; beat it well with th rolling-pin, and roll out half an 
inch thick 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 171 

English Paste for Meat and Game Pies. 

Sift two pounds of fine flour, cut in it a pound and a half of 
fresh butter, cutting and stirring with a knife until the butter is 
well through the flour ; stir in the yolks of three eggs, and beat 
well together with a spoon ; then add nearly a pint of very cold 
water, roll it out three times, and it is ready for use. 

* Shells for Preserved Fruit. 

Make a pound of puff paste crust, roll it out a quarter of an 
inch in thickness, cut it out the size of the top of a tumbler, 
cut a second piece the same size with a smaller cutter, take out 
the centre of the second one, wet the edge of the first, and lay on 
it the ring you have cut ; proceed as before until you have as 
many as you need, lay them on a tin or baking-pan, and bake 
them in a quick oven about fifteen minutes. When cold, fill 
with any small preserved fruit. 

* Vol-au-vent. 

Make a pound of puff paste crust, after rolling it the 
seventh time; let it stand half an hour, then .roll again 
half an inch in thickness, and cut out an oval shape of 
any size you wish ; lay it in the pan or tin you will bake it on, 
then roll out and cut three more shapes the same size and thick- 
ness as the first, cut the centre from each piece, leaving an edge 
of half an inch, wet the bottom crust, which is the first you cut, 
and lay one of the rings on it, then wet the ring and lay on it 
another, and the same with the third; bake io a quick oven, and 
cover with thick paper when a light brown ; be careful not to 
remove it from the oven until entirely done or the crust will 
/all; for the lid, roll out an oval the same as the first, and bake 
m a separate tin; from the trimmings of the crust, cut out five 
or six leaves, arrange them in the form of a flower or star on a 
pie-dish, bake, and lay on the lid when it is baked. If this is 
used for fruit, it must be cold ; if for oysters or game, it is to be 
•erved hot, and may be baked the day before it is wanted and 
warmed again in the oven 



172 CO OKER T FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

Vol-au-vent, No. 2. 

Have ready very fine puff paste, roll it out the third of an 
inch in thickness, cut it in shapes, either oval, round or square, 
the first and largest cake to be left whole ; from the centre of all 
the others cut a round piece the size of a small muffin-ring, and 
diminish the size of the cakes until you have the top one a size 
larger than the hole cut from the centre j this one must also l^e 
left whole. Bake each one separately on flat tins in a quiuk 
oven. When all are baked, take them carefully from the tins, 
brush each one over with the beaten white of egg, lay them on 
each other to form a pyramid, fill the centre with stewed oysters 
or game, stewed with cream gravy ; put on the lid, which may 
be ornamented with a flower of baked paste, and serve. Or for 
a dessert, fill the vol-au-vent with ripe strawberries sprinkled 
thickly with sugar or any small preserved fruit. 

* Stewed Apple for Vol-au-vent. 

Pare, core and quarter ten pippins or other tart apples ; make 
a syrup of a pound of sifted sugar and a pint of water ; boil and 
skim it, lay the apples in it a few pieces at a time, and boil them 
until clear ; take them out with a perforated skimmer as they 
are done, and lay them in a deep dish ; put in more apples and 
proceed as before until all are done; slice a lemon and add to 
the syrup, also a glass of wine ; boil until a rich syrup, pour over 
the apples, and set them away to cool. When perfectly cold, 
fill the crust with the apples, put on the lid, and dust powdered 
sugar over it. This should not be done until just before dinner, 
if wanted for dessert. 

* Apple Pie, No. 1. 

Pare, core and slice very thin juicy, tart apples, line a pie-dish 
with half puff paste, put in a layer of apples and one of sugar 
until the dish is full, heaping it up a little in the middle ; cover 
the top with sugar, and break over the apples quince-jelly, cover 
with crust, and bake until the apples are tender j try them 
'through the openings in the upper crust. 



PASTRY, PIWVINGS, dec. 173 

* Apple Pie, No. 2. 

Pare, core and slice tart juicy apples, stew them in as little 
water as possible, rub them through a cullender, add a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, sugar to your taste, and half the peel 
of a fresh lemon grated ; bake between two crusts, half puff paste. 

* Pot Apple Pie. 
Prepare a nice crust, butter the inside of a round pot, line it 
with the crust, pare, quarter and core as many apples as will 
nearly fill the pot, put a layer in the bottom, season with sugar, 
cinnamon and a few lumps of butter j put another layer of 
apples seasoned as before, until the apples are all in ; mix in a 
bowl a coffeecup of molasses and two of water, pour over the 
apples, and cover with a crust half an inch thick, — leaving an 
opening cut with your knife across the top both ways, — cover 
closely, and bake in the oven an hour and a half, or until the 
apples are tender, which you can ascertain by trying them with 
a fork through the opening in the top. When done, leave off 
the lid of the pot a few minutes, and shut up the oven until the 
top crust begins to brown ; then take out and serve. 

A Very Good Apple Pie. 

Take a large coffeecup full of light bread dough, work in it a 
piece of butter the size of an egg; fill a deep dish with apples 
sliced thin, put a little water on them, roll out the crust just to 
cover the dish, and bake until the apples are perfectly soft; then 
with a knife lift the crust off, lay it upside down on a plate a 
little larger than the crust ; mash the apples with the back of a 
Bpoon in the dish they were baked in, put a piece of butter in 
them as large as a nutmeg, sugar to your taste ; stir well 
together, spread them on the crust, grate nutmeg over the top, 
and you have a very nice pie. Better if eaten with cream. 

* Cherry Pie, 

Take out the pits, and stew them a few minutes, with plenty 
of sugar; line a pie-dish with good crust, fill it with the cherries, 



174 00 OKEB Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

cover with crust and bake about half an hour. This is to be 
regulated always by the heat of the oven. A pie may be baked 
in fifteen minutes if put in a hot oven, or in a cooler one will 
take twenty minutes or half an hour. 

Florence Cream Pie. 

• 

Put in a sauce-pan one cup of water and one of sugar, bring 
to a boil and stir in a tablespoonful of corn-starch mixed in a 
little cold water ; stir it over the fire until it thickens ; grate the 
rinds of two ISmons, take all the pulp oflF them and chop them 
fine, picking out the seeds ; add two beaten yolks of eggs to the 
corn-starch, then the rind and chopped lemon ; bake in a crust, 
and when done, cover with a meringue of the whites of the eggs 
and powdered sugar, beaten together to a stifiF froth, and brown 
slightly in a quick oven. This makes one large pie. 

Lemon Fie, STo. 1. 

One tablespoonful of butter, the same of flour heaping full, 
one cup of sugar, the same of cold water, two eggs, and the rind 
and juice of one lemon. Warm the butter, beat it with the 
sugar, add the eggs, then the flour ; beat well together, and add 
the lemon, and last the water. Bake in a crust; make a me- 
ringue of the whites of three eggs and powdered sugar, spread 
it on the top, and brown slightly in the oven. 

* Lemon Fie, No. 2. 

The juice and grated rind of one large lemon, one cup of water, 

one cup of sugar, a tablespoonful of corn-starch, and a piece of 

butter the size of an egg; boil the water, wet the corn-starsh 

and stir it in ; when it boils again, pour it on the sugar and 

utter; after it cools, add the lemon and egg. Bake in a crust. 

* Feach Fie, No. 1. 

Make a crust half puff paste, cover your pie- dishes; have 
ready pared and quartered ripe peaches, put a layer of them in 
the dish, sprinkle thickly with good brown sugar, put another 



PASTE r, PUDDINGS, &c. 375 

layer of peaches and sugar until the dish is full, cover the top 
with sugar, roll out another crust, double it over and cut a row 
of sl'*s through the centre ; wet the edge of the lower orust, 
cove: it with the upper crust, press lightly on the edges, trim it 
around, close to the dish with a knife dipped in flour, and bake 
in a quick oven half or three-quarters of an hour. All fruit or 
Bummer pies should be eaten the day they are baked. 

* Peach Pie, Wo. 2. 

Pare and slice ripe peaches, line a pie-dish with crust, put in 
a layer of peaches, sprinkle thickly with sugar ; then another 
layer of peaches and sugar, until your dish is full ; heap it up 
in the middle, put plenty of sugar on the top, and cover with 
crust and bake. 

Another way is to pare the peaches, lay them in a deep dish 
whole, cover thickly with sugar, and put a top crust, but none 
under the peaches, and bake them in a quick oven. Pie-crust 
requires a much hotter oven than bread. 

* Plum Pie. 

Plums require to be cooked half an hour, with plenty of sugar, 
to make them fit for a pie. When prepared thus, put them 
between two crusts and bake. 

Raisin Pie. 

Stone and chop a large cofieecup of raisins, measure the same 
quantity of sugar, the same of cold water, one and a half cups 
of molasses, a heaping tablespoonful of flour, and the rind and 
juice of two lemons ; stir the flour into the sugar, then add the" 
molasses, water, lemons, and last the raisins. Bake between 
two crusts. 

* Washington Pie. 

Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, the same of flour, 
and five eggs. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten ligh''-, beat the whites of the eggs to a 



176 CO OKEB T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

stiff froth, and add them alternately with the flour ; flavor with 
a glass of wine, the peel of half a lemon grated, and a little 
nutmeg; bake in two cakes in jelly-cake tins, cover one of the 
cakes with raspberry jam or preserved raspberries half an inch 
thick, lay the other cake on this, and sift sugar over the top ; 
serve cold for desert and cut like pie. 

* Mince Meat. 

Two pounds of cold roast beef without any fat, from the best 
part of a sirloin, chop as fine as possible; two pounds of beef 
Bueu, shred and chopped very fine, pick out all the strings as you 
shred it and before you weigh it. Put these in a deep stone 
pot, season with pepper and salt, about a teaspoonful of salt and 
half a saltspoon of pepper. Pare, quarter and core six pounds 
of pippin or other tart, juicy apples, chop them very fine and 
stir them through the meat and suet. Have ready two pounds 
of the best raisins seeded, the same of dried currants washed 
and dried, and one pound of citron cut in small pieces ; add 
these to the apples and meat, mis them well, and season with 
two heaping tablespoons of powdered cloves, the same of cinna- 
mon, one of ground allspice, one of ground mace not so full as 
the others, one small nutmeg grated, the rind and juice of three 
fine large oranges (the rind grated) ; stir these all together, and 
add three pounds of light brown sugar, three pints of good 
cooking wine, a pint of good brandy, and as much sweet cider 
as will make it as juicy as you wish. Stir all well together and 
cover closely. It improves by keeping, and if protected from 
the air, will keep until warm weather. 

* Brunswick Tart 

Make a crust as for vol-au-vent ; pare and core six or eight 
pippins or other juicy tart apples ; put them in a preserving- 
kettle with a coffeecup of sifted sugar, the same of hot water, a 
gill of wine, and a small piece of lemon-peel ; simmer slowly 
until the apples are tender. When cold, take them out of the 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 177 

kettle with a ptrforated skimmer, and lay them in the crust; 
make a custard of a pint of new milk, a quarter of a pound of 
sugar, the yolks of six eggs and the whites of three ; stir in a 
farina boiler until it begins to thicken, then add a coffeecup of 
cream, and if not sweet enough, a little more sugar; stir until 
as thick as rich cream. When cold, pour it over the apples. 
Flavor with six peach leaves tied in a bunch, and boiled a few 
minutes in the custard. When sufficiently flavored, take them 
out. 

* Cranberry Tart. 

Pick and wash a quart of cranberries, put them over the fire 
in a preserving-kettle with a pint of water. When they begin 
to break, mash them with a potato-masher, and add a pound and 
a quarter of white or light-brown sugar, simmer them about ten 
or fifteen minutes, stirring them frequently. When done, pour 
them out to cool, make a puff paste crust, roll it out one-third of 
an inch in thickness, cover your pie-dishes, trim them round, 
notch the edges, and prick the bottom part only with a fork, and 
bake them in a quick oven; fill them with the cranberries just 
before they are wanted. Any other stewed fruit or sweetmeat 
may be used instead of the cranberries. 

* A French Tart. 

Koll out puff paste, cover a pie-dish with it, trim round and 
notch the edge ; fill the crust with any small preserved fruits, 
jam or marmalade ; cut out an ornament of leaves from the 
crust, lay it on the top, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

* Rhubarb Tart. 

Peel and cut in pieces a couple of dozen stalks of rhubarb, 
pour boiling water over it, drain it and put it over the fire in a 
preserving-kettle, with sugar enough to sweeten it ; stew it about 
ten minutes (do not add any water), take it from the fire and 
stir in the grated rind of a lemon ; make a crust, line your pie- 
dishes with it, fill them with the fru't, cross the top with strips 
12 



178 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

of paste h&lf an inch wide, bake in a quick oven twenty minutes, 
or until the crust is thoroughly done. Gooseberry tarts may be 
made in the same way. 

* Boiled Apple Dumpling. 

One pound of Hecker's superfine prepared flour, a table- 
spoonful of butter or lard, a little salt and cold water or milk 
enough for a stiif dough ; roll it out and cut it in as many pieces 
as you have apples; pare and core tart apples; place in the 
centre of the crust, bring the corners up over the apple, close 
it over the top, tie each one in a square of muslin ; have a pot 
of boiling water, drop them in ; boil three-quarters of an hour, 
or until the apple is tender, and serve with butter, sugar and 
cream. 

* Baked Apple Dumpling. 

Pare and core fine tart apples, make a good plain pie-crust, 
roll it out, and cut it in as many pieces as you have apples ; put 
a spoonful of sugar in the middle of each piece of crust, sprinkle 
thickly with grated nutmeg and cinnamon, lay the apple on the 
sugar, bring the corners of the crust up over the top of the apple 
and close it ; butter a deep baking-dish, lay the-apples in it as close 
together as you can put them ; stir to a cream half a pound of 
sugar and a quarter of a pound of butter, lay an equal portion 
of this on the top of every dumpling, pour coldw^er round 
them until it reaches the sauce, put them in the oVen, and bake 
slowly nearly two hours. Before putting them in the oven, 
sprinkle nutmeg and cinnamon over the top on the sauce. 
These are very fine, and need no other sauce than what they are 
baked in. Send them to table in the dish they were baked in. 
Very nice deep pudding-dishes come for this purpose. 

Almond Pudding. 
Blanch and dry six ounces of sweet and half an ounce of 
bitter almonds ; pound them fine in a mortar, with two table- 
spoonsful of rose-water, added gradually as you pound them ; 



PASTRY, PUDI'NGH, &c. 179 

stir to a cream six ounces of butter and half a pound of pow- 
dered sugar, add to it a little grated lemon-peel, a gill of rich 
cream, four eggs beaten separately and then together, and the 
almond paste, and bake in puff paste. 

* Apple Pudding, No. 1. 

Chop a quarter of a pound of beef suet very fine, and stir it 
through half a pound of flour ; add a little salt ; when well 
mixed, make a hole in the middle, break an egg in it, stir it 
round a little, and add as much cold water as will make a stiff 
paste J roll it out two or three times ; butter a pudding-mould 
or basin, line it with the crust, fill it with cut apples, seasoned 
with sugar, cinnamon and a little nutmeg; cover with crust very 
closely, tie it up in a thick pudding-cloth and boil it in a pot of 
water an hour and three-quarters. To be eaten with cream 
Have the water boiling when you put the pudding in. 

* Apple Pudding, No. 2. 

Bring to a boil a pint of milk, stir in half a pint of Indian 
meal, one tedfci^ of molasses, a little salt; pare and core and cut 
in thin slices six apples, butter a pudding-dish, scatter the apples 
in it, pour over the milk and other ingredients, stir it together, 
and bake in a quick oven about three-quarters of an hour. This 
is a very nice pudding. 

* Apple Pudding, No. 3. 

Peel, core and cut in quarters tart juicy apples, and stew them 
in as little water as possible, press them through a cullender, and 
to one quart of the stewed apple add sugar to your taste, a salt- 
spoonful of cinnamon, the same of grated nutmeg, two table- 
spoonsful of brandy, four eggs beaten light, and a piece of butter 
the size of an egg melted and stirred in ; beat all well together, 
and bake in crust. 

Baked Flour Pudding, No 1. 
Beat three eggs very light, stir in them a pint of flour with 
a small teaspoonful and a half of cream of tarter sifted in it, add 



1 80 CO OKER Y FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

a tablespoonful of melted butter, a half teacup of sugar, and a 
ooffeecup of buttermilk or sweet milk, with a small teaspoon of 
soda dissolved in it. Bake half an hour in a Turk's head, and 
serve hot with wine sauce. 

* Baked Flour Pudding, No. 2. 
Five eggs beaten separately very light, and then together, 
nine tablespoonsful of flour, measured first, and then sifted, a 
little salt, and a quart of milk; mix the flour and milk into the 
beaten eggs. Bake half an hour in a buttered pudding-dish. 

* Baked Indian Pudding. 

Boil a pint of milk, and pour it gradually on a large teacup 
of Indian meal, stirring all the time ; cool it, and add three eggs 
beaten light, a tablespoonful of flour, half a cup of sugai, half a 
teaspoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon, a little salt, and a pint 
more milk, cold. Bake in a buttered pudding-3ish an hour and 
a half. 

Black Pudding 

Six eggs, one pint of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of sugar, 
one cup of flour, a tablespoonful of butter, a half of a nutmeg 
grated, and a teaspoonful of soda. Beat the eggs, butter and 
sugar together, dissolve the soda in a tablespoonful of hot water, 
and beat it into the molasses until it foams ; add all together, beat 
well, and boil one hour in a pudding-mould, cloth or bag. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

* Boiled Batter Pudding. 

Beat three eggs yery light, separately and then together ; add 
to them a quarter of a pound of flour and a pinch of salt ; when 
perfectly smooth, stir in half a pint of milk ; butter a mould, 
pour the pudding in, tie it tightly over the top with a pudding- 
cloth, put it in a pot of boiling water, and boil one hour and a 
quarter, or it may be boiled in a pudding-bag, scald the bag, 
wring it very tight, dust the inside with flour and pour the 
pudding . in ; boil it one hour in a bag. Make double the 
quantity if you wish a large pudding. Serve with wine-sauce. 



FASTRY, PUDDINGS, &e. 181 

Boiled Indian Fndding. 

Boil a quart of new milk, and stir in Indian meal to make a 
Btiff batter ; add a teaspoonful of salt, a teacup of chopped suet, 
a tablespoonful of sugar or molasses, and two eggs beaten light ; 
beat all well together, add a coffeecup of seeded raisins if liked, 
stir through them a tablespoonful of flour, scald your pudding, 
bag, wring it as dry as possible, dust it inside with flour, pour in 
the pudding, and boil it two hours. Serve with syrup-molasses 
cream and sugar, or wine-sauce. 

Bread and Apple Pudding. 

Cut thin slices of bread, butter them, lay a layer of them in 
the bottom of a pudding-dish, spread a thick layer of chopped 
apple over them, season with sugar, cinnamon and grated nutmeg, 
then another layer of bread and butter, apples, &c., until your 
dish is full ; bread and butter on the top, pour over a teacup of 
molasses and water, and bake three-quarters of an hour. Servo 
with sauce. 

* Bread and Butter Pudding, 
Beat the yolks of eight eggs, add them gradually to a quart 
of milk, sweeten to your taste, flavor with peach- water or vanilla 
(a teaspoonful of either will be sufficient). Cut slices of bread 
half an inch thick, butter both sides, cut in squares, and cover 
with them the bottom and sides of a pudding-dish, pour the cus- 
tard over them, sprinkle thickly over the top grated nutmeg and 
powdered cinnamon ; let it stand ten or fifteen minutes, then 
bake about twenty minutes in a hot oven. This pudding requires 
close watching. It should be the thickness of boiled custard 
when done. As soon as the custard commences to thicken the 
least bit on the sides of the dish, it is done, and a minute longer 
will spoil it. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs separately, add to the 
yolks a quarter of a pint of milk, stir these -^ell together ; add 
two ounces of- cofi"ee-sugar and the third of a small nutmeg 



182 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

grated ; then stir in four ounces of flour and beat to a smooth 
batter ; by degrees stir in seven ounces of beef suet, minced as 
fine as possible, and three ounces of bread crumbs ; mix all well 
together at least half an hour before you put the pudding in the 
pot ; pour into an earthenware pudding-mould, which you have 
well buttered ; tie a pudding-cloth over it very tightly, put it 
into a pot of boiling water and boil three hours. If you please, 
you may add to this a pound of raisins, stoned and cut in half, 
and a little grated lemon peel, and you have a very good plum 
pudding. To be eaten with wine-sauce. 

* Cable Pudding. 

Boil half a pint of milk with a few strips of lemon-peel in it 
to flavor, mix to a paste a dessertspoonful of corn starch with a 
little of the milk, which you must leave out of the half-pint for 
the purpose, add to it a beaten egg, and when the milk boils, 
stir the corn starch in, boil a minute or two, and set aside to 
cool. Beat together three tablespoonsful of melted butter, one 
cup of powdered sugar, and the yolks of two eggs. When light, 
add a pint of sifted flour, with two teaspoons even full of cream 
of tartar mixed through it, and last a teacup of milk with an 
even teaspoon of soda dissolved in it. Bake in jelly-cake tins 
size of a dinner-plate, divide the quantity evenly in two cakes, 
bake a nice brown in a quick oven, spread the custard between 
the cakes, and over the top pour and shape nicely a meringue, 
made with the whites of three eggs beaten with three table- 
spoonsful of powdered sugar, brown slightly in the oven, and 
serve cold. 

* Cake Pudding. 

Beat five eggs very light ; stir to a cream three cups of sugar 
and one of butter ; add half a nutmeg grated, then the eggs, 
four cups of flour with two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar sifted 
through it, and a cup of milk with a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in it ; beat well together. Have ready a quart of whor- 
tleberries, raspberries or currants ; put in a buttered pudding- 
dish a layer of the cake and one of the fruit alternately until all 



PASTRF, PUDDINGS, So. 183 

are in ; have a layer of cake oa the top. Bake one hour in a 
quick oven, cover with thick paper whun brown on top, and 
serve with wine-sauce. 

* Coooanut Fuddijig. 
One large cocoanut grated, the whites of twelve eggs beaten 
very light, one pound of powdered sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, a glass of brandy and one of wine. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the wine and brandy, then the 
grated oocoanufc alternately with the eggs. Bake in pie-dish 
lined with puff paste crust; notch the edges. See Cocoanut 
Custard, p. 203. 

College Puddings. 

Beat four eggs separately and then together ; add to them two 
ounces of flour, two tablespoonsful of milk, half a small nutmeg 
grated, half a teaspoonful of ginger and a quarter of a pound of 
sugar ; beat all together. Chop very fine six ounces of suet and 
stir it in the pudding; add six ounces of currants, washed and 
dried, an ounce of candied orange-peel, cut fine, or the same of 
citron, and a glass of brandy; beat well together, and bake 
them, in patty-pans or cups, twenty minutes in a quick oven. 
Serve with wine-sauce. 

Corn Starch Padding, No. 1. 
Boil one quart of milk, stir in it three tablespoonsful of corn 
starch mixed in a little cold water, boil five minutes, take it from 
the fire, add four tablespoons of sugar, yolks of five eggs beaten, 
and a little pinch of salt; butter a pudding-dish, and pour in the 
pudding ; bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. Make a miringue 
of the whites of the eggs beaten with powdered sugar. When 
the pudding is baked, pour the meringue over the top, shape it 
with a spoon, aid brown slightly. 

* Corn Starch Pudding, No. 2. 

One large teacup of corn starch mixed smoothly in cold water, 
Btir this into one and a Half pints of boiling water, and bcil it 



1 84 CO OKEB r PR OM EXPE.2IENCE. 

ten minutes, or until it is clear like star.h, remove it from the 
fire, and stir into it two large cojfeecups of white sugar, the juice 
and grated rind of a large lemon, and the beaten yolks of three 
eggs. Make a crust of paste and bake it as if for stewed fruit, 
spread the corn starch evenly over the crust, beat the whites of 
the eggs with powdered sugar, making a meringue as directed 
above j spread over the top of the puddings and brown slightly 

* Cottage Pudding. 
A quarter of a pound of butter and two cups of sugar creamed 
together ; add two eggs beaten light, a quart of flour, with two 
teaspoonsful of cream of tartar sifted through it, and two cupa 
of milk with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it. Bake half 
an hour in a buttered pudding-dish. Serve with wine-sauce. 

* Rice Cups, 
Grind in a mill two teacups of rice ; boil three pints of new 
milk ; mix the ground rice with a teacup of cold water, stir it in 
the milk ; put all together in a farina-kettle, stir over the fire 
until it is thick and the rice is thoroughly cooked ; sweeten to 
your taste, flavor with peach-water or vanilla, and pour into cups 
or moulds which have been wet with cold milk. When cold 
and solid, turn them out ; put on the top of each form some 
small preserved fruit, and serve with a thin boiled custard, or 
cream. 

English Pudding. 

Beat six eggs very light, add to them two tablespoons of flour 
and a small teacup of bread crumbs, two tablespoons heaping 
full of sugar, a pound of suet shred fine or chopped, a pound of 
Btoned raisins, a small tablespoon of allspice, the same of cinna- 
mon — all to be well mixed together and boiled in a pudding- 
cloth or bag three hours. To be eaten with wine-sauce. 

Farina Pudding. 
One quart of milk boiled, and thickened with farina until a 
stick will stand up in it ; when a little cool, stir in butter the 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 185 

size of an egg, and four eggs beaten light; bake in a buttered 
pudding-dish three-quarters of an hour. Eaten cold with 
cream. 

* Gelatine Pudding. 

Half a box of gelatine dissolved in a large half-pint of boiling 
water ; when cool, stir in two teacups of sugar and the juice of 
two lemons ; beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth and add 
them to the gelatine whilst it is warm ; beat all together tho- 
roughly, pour into a mould and set on the ice. Make a custard 
with the yolks of the eggs, a quart of milk and sugar to your 
taste ; boil in a farina-kettle until it begins to thicken, flavor 
with vanilla ; when the mould is stiff, turn it out into a glass 
dish, pour the custard round it and serve. 

Hartford Pudding. 

One cup of bread crumbs finely grated, one of chopped suet, 
one of brown sugar, one of sifted flour, one of currants washed 
and dried, one of milk, a teaspoonful of soda, one of salt, and a 
half of a grated nutmeg. Mix together the crumbs, suet, sugar, 
flour, nutmeg, salt and currants, dissolva the soda in the cup of 
milk, add it last, tie up in a pudding-cloth and boil four hours. 
Serve with wine- sauce. 

* Hasty Pudding. 

Beat the yolks of two eggs, and stir them into a quart of 
milk, with a pinch of salt, set the milk over the fire, and when 
it comes to a boil, stir in dry flour, sifting it through your fingers 
until you have it as thick as mush, stirring all the time, and 
keeping it boiling all the time. When thick enough, it is done. 
To be eaten with butter and syrup, and can be made during 
dinner. 

* Hiawatha Pudding. 
Four eggs, the weight of three in Indian meal, half a pound 
of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter stirred to a cream. 
Beat th eggs very light and add them, then the Indian mi>al, 



186 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

and lastly the juice and grated rind of one lemon ; bake from 
half an hour to three-quarters in a quick oven. When it is 
done, spread currant-jelly over the top and serve. 

Indian Pudding, No. 1. 
Four tablespoonsful of corn meal, a quart of milk boiled, half 
a teacup of molasses, three eggs, butter half the size of an egg, 
half a teaspoonful of ginger, a little nutmeg; stir all these in- 
gredients together in a large bowl with the milk, let them boil 
throe minutes, stirring all the time, pour into a buttered pudding- 
dish, and bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Indian Pudding, ITo. 2. 
Three pints of milk, one of corn meal, butter the size of an 
egg, eight eggs, half a pound of raisins seeded, half a cup of 
powdered sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Boil the milk 
and pour it over the corn meal, stir in the butter. When cool, 
add the eggs and a pinch of salt, then sugar and spice, and last 
the raisins. Bake nearly an hour in a moderate oven. 

Indian Pudding, Xo. 3. 
Poar three pints of boiling milk on seven tablespoonsful of 
Indian meal, stir in half a pound of butter, a teacup of sugar, 
four beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of rose water, the same of 
brandy, and the grated rind of a lemon ; butter a pudding-dish, 
pour it in, and bake about three-quarters of an hour in & quick 
oven. 

Indian Pudding, No. 4. 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in it half a cup of butter, pour this 
over three-quarters of a cup of Indian meal, beat it smooth, and 
add one and a half cups cf light-brown sugar, two eggs beaten 
light (add only the yolks), a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of 
cinnamon, a little salt, then the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, and a small teaspoon of soda dissolved in a spoonful 
of warm water Bake in a buttered pudding-dish half an hour. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 187 

Indian Pudding, No. 5. 

A pint of milk, two eggs, three tablespoons of Indian meal, 
half a small teacup of molasses, butter half the size of an egg; 
put the milk in a sauce-pan, scald it, add the Indian meal, and 
boil it three minutes, stir in the butter, cool it a few minutes, 
then add the molasses with a third of a teaspoon of soda stirred 
in it until it foams, then add the eggs well beaten, and the fol- 
lowing spices : half a teaspoon of ginger, a third of a teaspoon 
of cinnamon, the same of allspice and cloves, and a small pinch 
of salt; butter a pudding-dish, pour it in, and bake in a mode- 
rate oven two and a quarter hours. It can be eaten with cream 
or alone. 

Indian Pudding, No. 6. 

Six tablespoons of Indian meal and two of wheat flour, mix 
them well together with a little cold milk, stir them into a pint 
of new milk ; boil three minutes ; add a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, cinnamon and ginger to your taste. When cool, stir 
in one and a half cups of molasses, a teaspoon and a half of soda, 
and two eggs beaten light. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish. 

Indian Padding, No. 7. 

One pint of corn meal and a teacup of wheat flour, rub a piece 
of butter the size of an egg through it, add a teacup of mo- 
lasses, a pint and a half of buttermilk, a teaspoon of saleratus or 
soda, dissolved in as little warm water as possible ; stir all to- 
gether until perfectly smooth ; beat four eggs very light anjl add 
them ; bake in a buttered Turk's head, turn out and send it to 
the table with wine-sauce. 

Indian Pudding, No. 8. 

One quart of milk scalded and poured over a teacup of Indian 
meal, six eggs beaten light, a piece of butter the size of an egg 
stirred into the Indian meal before you sca:ld it, a pinch of salt, a 
small teacup of sugar; butter a puddinqj-dish, pour the pudding 
in, and bake an hour. 



188 COOKER Y FROM EAi ERIENCE. 

* Indian Custard Pudding. 
Take seven heaping tablespoons of Indian meal, half a lea- 
spoon of salt, two tablespoons of butter, a teacup of molasses, two 
teaspoons of ginger, or cinnamon, as you prefer; pour into these 
a quart of boiling milk, mix well and pour into a buttered pud- 
ding-dish. Just before putting into the oven, stir in a teacup 
of cold water, which will produce the same effect as eggs. Bak( 
one hour in a hot oven. 

* Lemon Pudding, No. 1. 

Half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter and five 
eggs beaten separately ; grate the rinds of two and squeeze the 
juice of three lemons, strain out the seeds from the juice ; stir 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs, the 
rind of the lemons and a tablespoonful of good brandy ; beat up 
well, then add the whites of the eggs and the juice of the 
lemons ; beat all well together ; line a pie-dish with puff paste, 
mark the edges with the back of a knife about an inch apart, 
pour in the pudding, and bake about half an hour in a quick 
oven. This quantity will make three or four puddings. 

* Lemon Pudding, No. 2, 

Six ounces of sugar, the same of butter, a tablespoonful of 
brandy, and four eggs beaten separately; stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add the brandy, the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, and last the eggs. Beat all well together, and bake in 
puff paste. 

Lemon Pudding, No. 3. 

Roll nine soda-crackers very fine, pour over them a pint and 
a half of new milk ; let them stand, whilst you rub to a cream 
three-quarters of a pound of butter and a pound and a half of 
fine white sugar ; beat the whites of six eggs very light, then 
beat the yolks a little and gradually add the whites to them ; 
stir them into the butter and sugar, and add to them the rind 
of two and the juice of three lemons, then the crackers and 
milk ; line your pie-plates with puff-paste crust, fill them, and 
bake twenty minutes. 



PASTRY, PUDDING J, &c. 189 

English Recipe for Lemon Puddings. 
Three tablespoonsful of rice flour, one quart of milk; six eggs, 
the juice and rind of two lemons, and sugar to your taste. Put 
the milk over the fire in a farina-boiler, leaving out a little to 
mix with the rice flour. When it boils, stir in the rice flour, 
mixed to a paste with the milk you left out. When it thickens, 
add a quarter of a pound of butter and stir well. When cool, 
add the eggs beaten separately very light ; then the juice and 
rind of the lemons. Bake in puff paste. 

* One Lemon Pudding. 

Put a teacup of sifted or powdered sugar into a teacup of cold 
water, bring to a boil, then stir in a heaping tablespoonful of 
corn starch mixed in a little cold water, and the beaten yolks of 
two eggs; stir briskly. When well mixed, boil about four 
minutes, take it from the fire, and add the grated rind and juice 
of one large or two small lemons; bake a crust (scoring the 
bottom to prevent its pufling up), in a pie-dish, fill it with the 
mixture, beat up the whites of the eggs with two heaping table- 
spoonsful of powdered sugar, spread it over the top, and brown 
slightly in a quick oven. 

* Two Lemon Puddings. 

Beat the yolks only of four eggs until perfectly light, add 
eight heaping tablespoons of sifted or powdered sugar, and beat 
again; then add two tablespoons of melted butter, the juice of 
two and the grated rind of one lemon ; beat all well together, 
and bake in puflF paste crust; whilst the pies are baking, make 
a meringue of the whites of the eggs beaten with four or five 
tablespoons of powdered sugar. When the puddings come out 
of the oven, spread them over with the meringue, shaping it 
with a spoon^ and brown slightly in a quick oven. 

* Nashville Pudding. 

Stone and stew with plenty of sugar fine ripe cherries, cut 
rather thin slices of bread, butter Jhem, place a layer in a pud 



190 10 OKER T FR OU EXPERIENCE. 

ding-dish, then a layer of the fruit whilst it is warm, then another 
layer of bread and butter with a layer of fruit, until the dish is 
full; pour over the top a glass of brandy, cover with a me- 
ringue, brown slightly, and serve it cold. 

* Nottingham Pudding. 

Pare and core eight or ten pippins, or other tart and juicy 
apples, place them in a pudding-dish and fill the centre of each 
apple with sugar ; put a strip of lemon or orange, with the peel 
on it, down through the sugar. Make a batter of a pint of milk, 
four eggs, and five tablespoonsful of flour, with a pinch of salt ; 
pour it over the apples, and bake about three-quarters of an 
hour. Serve with wine-sauce. 

* Orange Pudding, No. 1. 

G-rate the yellow rind and squeeze the juice of two large tar( 
oranges, stir to a cream half a pound of butter and the same of 
white sugar, add a wine-glass of mixed wine and brandy ; beat 
very light six eggs separately and then together, add them to 
the butter and sugar, then the juice and rind of the oranges, 
line your pie-dishes with puff paste, fill them with the mixture, 
bake about half an hour in a quick oven. When cold, sift ovei 
them powdered sugar. You may add the juice of a lemon if 
you wish them tart. 

Orange Pudding, No. 2. 

G-rate and sift a pint of bread crumbs, put them into a quar^ 
of milk, melt a piece of butter the size of an egg, and stir it in, 
the yolks of five eggs beaten light, half the rind of a large 
orange. Bake in a buttered pudding-dish about three-quarters 
of an hour in a hot oven. Make a meringue of the whites of 
the eggs and powdered sugar beaten together, the remainder of 
the orange-peel grated, and the juice squeezed from the orange— 
Bvread on the pudding whilst hot j brown slightly and serve 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 191 

Plain Plum Pudding, No. 1. 

One cup of molasses, one of milk, four of flour, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, a little nutmeg, cinna- 
mon, cloves and mace, one teaspoonful of salt, one cup of raisins 
seeded ; boil three hours. 

Plain Plum Pudding, TSio. 2. 

Three cups of flour, one of milk, one of molasses, one of sugar, 
one of suet chopped fine, one cup of raisins seeded, one teaspoon 
of salt, one of soda in the milk, two of cream of tartar in the 
flour a little cinnamon. Boil three hours. 

* Plum Pudding. 

One pound of raisins stoned, one of currants washed and 
dried, a quarter of a pound of citron cut fine, half a pound of 
sifted sugar, a pint of bread crumbs, one pound of beef suet 
shred fine, two wine-glasses of brandy, one of molasses, ten eggs 
beaten separately, a nutmeg grated, a small teaspoonful of cinna- 
mon and half an one of powdered mace, and two tablespoons of 
flour stirred through the fruit. Scald the bag or cloth, wring 
it as dry as possible, dust flour over the in.side, and pour the 
pudding in, tie quite closely and very, tight, and boil, if all in 
one, six hours ; if in two, boil three hours ; and if in three, a 
little over two hours. 

* Potato Puddings. 

Boil and mash very fine five large white potatoes, stir to a 
cream three-quarters of a pound of butter and the same of sugar, 
add the juice and rind of one large fresh lemon, a glass of wine 
and one of brandy ; beat six eggs very light separately and then 
together, add them to the potato, beat all well together, and bake 
in pufi" paste. 

* Prince Albert's Pudding 

Two ounces of finely-shred suet, four ounces of bread crumbs, 
four ounces of currants washed and dried, five eggs, one table- 
spoonful of brandy, two of sugar, the peel of half a lemon grated • 



192 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

beat the eggs very light separately and then together ; stir in 
the bread crumbs, then the nutmeg and brandy ; add the suet, 
sugar and lemon-peel. Bake it three-quarters of an hour in a 
Turk's head well buttered, or boil it two hours in a quart mould. 
When done, turn it out. Beat the whites of two eggs with half 
a pound of powdered sugar, and pour over the top of the 
pudding. 

^Fampkin Puddings. 

Stew the pumpkin in as little water as possible, press it 
through a cullender, and then squeeze it through a clean thick 
cloth until quite dry ; add to it rather more than half a pint of 
cream ; stir to a cream a coflFeecup of sifted sugar and three 
ounces of fresh butter, add a wine-glass of wine, the same of 
brandy, the third of a nutmeg grated and a saltspoonful of pow- 
dered cinnamon ; beat eight eggs very light separately and then 
together, add them to the butter and sugar, then stir in the 
pumpkin; if not sweet enough, add more sugar; line your pie- 
dishes with puff paste crust, fill them, and bake about half an hour. 
This is for one quart of the stewed and strained pumpkin. 

* Queen of Puddings. 

To a quart of milk add a pint of bread crumbs, let it stand 
for half an hour, then add a coffeecup of sugar, the yolks of 
four eggs beaten light, the grated rind of a lemon, and a piece 
of butter the size of an egg warmed and stirred in. Butter a 
pudding-dish and pour the pudding in, bake about three-quarters 
of an hour, or until the pudding shrinks from the side of the 
dish ; beat the whites of the eggs very light, with a teacup of 
sugar and the juice of the lemon. When the pudding is done, 
spread the top of it with currant-jelly, marmalade or small pre- 
served fruit, as strawberries, raspberries or cherries ; pour over 
these the mdringue, shaping nicely with the back of a large spoon, 
and brown slightly in a quick oven. To be eaten cold with 
cream. 

* ftuick Pudding. 

Beat three eggs very light, add to them a pint of flour, a cup 
of milk, a small half-cup of sugar, a tablespoon of melted butter, 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &e. 193 

A teaspoon and a half of cream of tartar, one of soda, half an one 
of salt, and a little nutmeg ; beat all well together, and bake in 
» buttered pudding-dish, or Turk's head, half an hour. 

* Rice Pudding, 

Have ready two quarts of new milk, pick and wash a teacup 
of rice, put it in a sauce-pan, with one quart of the milk, set it 
on the back of the range to swell and soften, simmering it gently. 
When perfectly soft, stir into it the other quart of milk, add a 
pinch of salt, a teaspoon of rose-water, and sugar to taste ; butter 
a pudding-dish and pour it in, bake very slowly one hour. If 
raisins are liked, a large cup of them may be added just before 
putting into the oven. 

* Roley Poley Pudding. 

Make a crust of one quart of Hecker's prepared flour, a table- 
Bpoonful of butter and a pinch of salt, with water to make a 
dough ; roll it out half an inch thick, spread over it marmalade 
or any kind of jam, or small fruit preserved, or a mixture in 
spots of both, or dried peaches or cherries stewed nicely ; leave 
an inch all round the crust, roll it up in the shape of a" bolster, 
tie it in a floured pudding-cloth, at both ends and in the middle, 
and boil it two hours Serve with wine-sauce. 

* Snow Pudding. 

Half a package of gelatine dissolved in a pint of boiling water, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff 
froth, add them to the mixture, and beat again with the vessel in 
a pan of ice. When quite stiff, turn it into a mould, and again 
Bet it in ice. Make a boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs, 
and a pint of milk sweetened to taste. Serve with the custard, 
pour around the form of gelatine. 

Spanish Pudding. 

Grate stale sponge-cake, butter a pudding-dish, and put a 
layer of the crumbs in the bottom, then a layer of small pre- 
13 



194 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

served fruit, marmalade or jelly ; another layer of crumbs, then 
fruit, and so on until your- dish is full. Make a custard of a 
quart of milk and six eggs, sweeten and flavor, pour over the 
crumbs, and bake about half an hour or three-quarters. To be 
served with any sauce you please. 

* Sponge-Cake Pudding. 

Four eggs, their weight in sugar, half their weight in flour, 
the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the eggs separately very 
light, stir the sugar into the yolks, add the flour and the whites 
of the eggs alternately, then the lemon. Bake in a Turk's 
head or a flat tin-pan, and serve hot with wine-sauce. Try it 
with a splint when it begins to shrink from the sides of the pan. 
If the splint is dry, the pudding is done. 

Steamed Pudding. 

One cup of sweet cream, the same of molasses, a cup of hot 
water, two teaspoons of each of the following spices : cloves, cin- 
namon and allspice ; a teaspoon of ginger and one of ground 
mace, flour enough to make a batter the consistence of pound- 
cake ; add a teaspoon of soda, two of cream of tartar and two 
cups of stoned raisins; butter a mould, pour it in, cover tightly 
and steam three hours. To be eaten with wine-sauce. 

* Suet Pudding, No. 1. 

One coffeecup of suet chopped fine, one of stoned raisins cut 
in half, one of sweet milk, one of molasses, three of flour, and a 
teaspoonful of soda ; stir all well together, putting the milk with 
the soda dissolved in it the last; butter a mould, pour in the 
pudding, cover closely so that no water can get in it, and boil 
three hours. Serve with wine-sauce. This is a very nwo 
pudding. 

Suet Pudding, Wo. 2. 

Boil a pint of new milk, stir into it three-quarters of a ten- 
cent baker's loaf, grated finely ; add a teacup of molasses, a 
little salt, a quarter of a pound of beef suet finely shred, a ponnd 



PASTRY, PUDD1N\JS, &c. 195 

of raisins stoned, or the same of currants, whichever you have 
by you, and the peel and juice of a fresh orange — a tablespoon 
of flour to be mixed through the fruit. Boil one hour and a 
quarter. To be eaten with wine-sauce. 

* Suet Pudding, No. 3. 

Chop six ounces of suet very fine, put it in a basin with six 
ounces of flour, two ounces of bread crumbs, and a pinch of salt; 
beat three eggs, add to them eight tablespoonsful of milk, beat 
all well together ; butter a pudding-mould, pour the pudding in, 
cover very closely, and boil two hours. 

Summer Pudding. 

Take a quart of ripe currants stripped from their stalks ; cover 
the bottom of a pudding-dish with slices of bread without the 
crust, buttered slightly; put a layer of the currants over the 
bread, cover them thickly with sugar ; then another layer of 
currants and sugar, and so on until the dish is filled ; cover the 
top with thin slices of bread and butter, bake in a quick oven 
half an hour ; serve with cream, either warm or cold. Cherries, 
raspberries or plums may be used in the place of currants, or 
any stewed fruit, if preferred ; if the fruit is stewed, bake 
fifteen minutes. 

* Tapioca Pudding, No. 1. 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water three hours, put 
the same in a quart of milk, draining oflF the water; boil fifteen 
minutes. Beat the yolks of four eggs, add to them a cofieecup 
of sugar, stir them into the pudding five minutes before taking 
from the fire, flavor with vanilla or lemon. Beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stifi' froth with five tablespoons of powdered sugar, 
cover the pudding with it, shape nicely with the back of a spoon, 
and bake five minutes. 

This pudding is very nice with two tablespoons of prepared 
cocoanut stirred into the yolks and sugar, instead of the lemon 
or vanilla. The nut is also sprinkled over the top of tliH 
meringue before putting in the oven. 



196 COOKERY FROM. EXPERIENCE. 

Tapioca Pudding, ISo. 2, 
Put three tablespoonsful of tapioca in cold water and soak all 
night; in the morning drain off the water and put it ever the 
fire in a quart of milk ; boil slowly half an hour, or until the 
tapioca is dissolved ; then add the yolks of three eggs, beaten 
with three heaping tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, and boil 
until the consistence of custard ; remove it from the fire, flavor 
with vanilla or peach-water, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, pour into the dish you will serve it in, and set 
away to cool. 

Tapioca Pudding, Ifo. 3, 

Six tablespoonsful of tapioca ; put it in a quart of milk and 
bring to a boil ; when dissolved, add a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, two eggs beaten together, and sugar to your taste ; 
butter a pudding-dish, pour in the pudding and bake about 
three-c[uarters of an hour. Serve with cream or not. 

* Tapioca Pudding, No. 4. 

One cup of tapioca soaked in a pint of lukewarm water over 
night; lay in a buttered pudding-dish a layer of sliced tart 
apples, a layer of tapioca, and a plentiful sprinkling of sugar, 
until the dish is full ; pour over the water the tapioca was soaked 
in and bake slowly two hours. You may vary it by paring and 
coring the apples, leaving them whole ; scatter sugar thickly 
over, and pouring the tapioca and water over them and baking. 

Vermicelli Pudding. 

Wash an ounce and a half of vermicelli, break it up in short 
pieces, and put it over the fire in a quart of new milk, add to it 
a quarter of a pound of butter, and continue to boil for half an 
hour ; set it off to cool, sweeten to your taste, add a glass of 
wine, two tablespoonsful of brandy, and some grated nutmeg ; 
beat seven eggs separately very light, add the yolks before the 
pudding is -quite cold, then the whites, and bake half an hour 
in a buttered pudding-dish. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, Jet 197 

* Whortleberry Pudding. 

Put a pint of molasses in a deep basin, dissolve a teaspoonful 
of soda in half a cup of warm water, pour it into the molasses, 
and beat with a spoon until in a foam ; then add two even tea/- 
spoons of powdered cloves, the same of cinnamon, and half a 
grated nutmeg; stir in sifted flour to the consistence of pound- 
cake. Stir in a quart of whortleberries which have been well 
washed and dried, flour your pudding-bag or cloth, pour in the 
pudding, tie it pretty close and very tight, and boil it three 
hours. Have the water boiling before you put the pudding in, 
and replenish it from a kettle of boiling water as the water boils 
away. Serve it with wine-sauce. 

The following eight recipes are English and very nice : — 

1. A Bread Pudding. 
Grate and sift a pint of bread crumbs, put them in a stew-pan 
with just enough milk to cover them, with the grated rind of a 
lemon, a little nutmeg grated, and a saltspoonful of powdered 
cinnamon ; boil about ten minutes, take it from the fire, sweeten 
with sifted sugar to your taste ; beat four eggs separately and 
then together, and add them ; beat all well together, and bake 
half an hour in a buttered pudding-dish, or boil rather more 
than an hour in a bag or cloth, well floured. 

2. Vermicelli Pudding. 

Boil a pint of milk, add to it a quarter of a pound of vermi- 
celli, and simmer it ten minutes (break the vermicelli into pieces 
an inch in length), cool it a little ; beat the yolks of five and the 
whites of three eggs separately and then together, stir them into 
the milk and vermicelli, add sugar to your taste, the peel of a 
lemon grated, and bake half an hour. 

3. Boiled Custards. 
Boil a quart of new milk, with the peel of a lemon cut very 
thin and a stick of cinnamon ; be careful not to let the milk 



198 CO OKER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

boil over ; then set it where it will simmer for ten minutes. 
Beat the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs separately 
and then together, pour the milk into them, a little at a time, 
beating all the while ; set it on the fire again, with sugar to 
your taste, in a vessel of boiling water ; stir until it sticks to the 
spoon and begins to thicken ; then remove it from the fire, stir 
a few minutes, and pour into glass or china custard-cups ; grate 
nutmeg over the top of each. A little brandy or a glass of wine 
is an improvement ; if you add it, stir the custard until cold. 

4. Batter Pudding. 

Six ounces of flour, three eggs, and a pinch of salt; beat the 
eggs, stir in the flour and salt, stir in milk gradually until the 
thickness of cream, put it in a buttered pudding-dish, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour, or boil it in a pudding-bag or cloth 
well floured an hour and a half. 

5. Newmarket Pudding. 

Boil a pint of milk, with the peel cut thin of half a lemon, 
and a stick of cinnamon ; boil gently five minutes, beat the yolks 
of five eggs, and the whites of three separately and then together, 
add the milk, sweeten to your taste with white sugar, then strain 
it; cut slices of bread very thin, butter both sides, lay a layer 
in a buttered pudding-dish, and spread thickly with dried cur- 
rants which have been washed and dried, then another layer of 
bread and butter and currants until the dish is full ; pour over 
the custard, grate nutmeg over the top, and put a sprinkling of 
cinnamon, and bake half an hour. 

S. Cabinet Pudding, No. 2. 

Butter a half melon-mould, stick all over with preserved 
cherries or raisins, put in layers of bread and butter and cherries 
or currants as above, pour the custard over, and cover the mould 
tightly ; set it in boiling water to come within half an inch ■»£ 
the top, and boil an hour a< i a half; turn out and serve with 
wine-sauce. 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 199 

7. Spring Fruit Puddings, 

Peel and wash about four dozen stalks of rhubarb, cut it in 
small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with sugar to make it very 
sweet, set it over the fire, and cook until like marmalade ; a few 
minutes does this ; pass it through a sieve, then add the peel of 
a fresh lemon grated, a little nutmeg, two ounces of butter, the 
yolks of six eggs and the whites of two ; mix well together, line 
your pie-dishes with puflf paste crust, fill them, and bake half 
an hour. 

8. Spring Fruit Cream. 

Prepare a marmalade of the rhubarb the same as above, to 
which add a pint of rich cream, dissolve in a little milk, half an 
ounce of gelatine ; stir it in the marmalade and pour into a form. 
Set it in ice several hours before it is wanted and serve with 
cream. Add the dissolved gelatine whilst the marmalade is hot. 

* Cottage Cheese. 
Pour a pan of thick sour milk into a bag made for the pur- 
pose — of strainer-cloth or rather thin crash ; tie it loosely and 
hang it to drain for five or six hours ; when dry, turn it out, rub 
it with the back of a wooden spoon until every lump is out of it, 
add rich cream and a little salt, and rub to a smooth paste. 
Serve in a glass or china dish, with a little pepper on the top. 

* Brown Betty. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding dish with stale rusk grated 
finely, or bread crumbs if you have no rusk ; put a layer of 
thinly sliced tart apple on them, sprinkle them plentifully with 
sugar, and scatter little pieces of butter thickly over them; then 
add more crumbs, apples, sugar and butter until the dish is full ; 
put crumbs for the top layer, sprinkled with sugar and butter, 
pour over the top three-quarters of a teacup of syrup molasses. 
thinned with a little boiling water Bake until the top is well 
browned and the apples are tender. To be eaten hot with 
wine-sauce, or only a little warm with cream. Season each layof 
with a sprinkling of rinnamon and a little nutmeg. 



200 COOKERY FR. if EXPERIENCE. 

* Apple Tapioca, No. 1, 

Soak a coffeeeup of tapioca in cold water all night, pare and 
core six large tart apples, put them in a pudding-dish, fill the 
centre of each apple with butter and sugar, pour the tapioca over 
the apples, and bake in a quick oven until the apples are soft. 
Serve cold with cream. 

Apple Tapioca, No. 2. 

Soak ovei night a coffeecupful of tapioca; in the morning, 
put it over the fire in the water it was soaked in, which should 
be about a quart, boil it until a jelly, replenishing with boiling 
water as it thickens, until it will run from the spoon ; add four, 
or five tablespoonsful of sugar ; pare and core whole as many 
apples as will nearly fill your dish, make a syrup of sugar and 
water, boil the apples in it until clear, take them out, drain all 
the juice from them, lay them in the dish, and pour the tapioca 
over them, and set away until cold. This is improved by slicing 
a lemon and adding to the apples a few minutes before you take 
them out of the syrup. To be eaten with cream ; or it is very 
nice without any accompaniment. 

* Blackberry Mush. 

Mash in a preserving-kettle a quart of very ripe blackberries, 
sweeten them with white sugar, cook them fifteen minutes, then 
stir in dry flour until enough to make them stick together, keep 
them boiling all the time. When stiif enough, pour into tea- 
cups. When cold, turn them out ; to be eaten with cream. 

* Coddled Apples. 

Pare and core tart apples, leaving them whole, put them in a 
preserving-kettle with water to cover them, simmer them gently 
until a little tender, take them out, and lay them on a dish to 
cool ; add to the water they were boiled in a half pound of 
sugar to every pound of apples, slice a lemon and put in the 
syrup, b'ring to a boil, and lay the apple in, and boil gently until 
clear ; take them out and place them in the dish you will serve 



PASTRY, -'UDDINGS, &c. 201 

thiim in, have ready soaked a quarter of a box of gelatine in 
cold water enough to cover it, stir this into the sjrup, give 
ODe boil up, and strain through a sieve or fine cloth over the 
apples. Set awaj until next day. Strain the syrup before add- 
ing the gelatine. 

* Fruit Tapioca. 
Dissolve on the range a quarter of a pound of tapioca in as 
little water as you can use ; add to it, when dissolved, a teacup 
of sifted sugar and one quart of fruit in season — strawberries, 
raspberries, blackberries or cranberries; cook about ten minutes 
and pour into moulds. Serve cold with cream. Soak the tapioca 
in cold water for three hours before setting it on the fire. 

Lemon Butter, 

Three lemons, a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar, two ounces 
"of butter, six eggs; beat the butter, sugar and eggs together, 
then add the juice of the lemons with the rind of one, set the 
vessel in another of boiling water, and stir until it begins to 
thicken ; take it from the fire, stir until cool, and pour into glass 
cups or a large glass bowl. 

lemon Sponge. 
Dissolve half a box of gelatine in a pint and a half of water 
over the fire ; add a pound of fine white sugar, the rind of two 
and the juice of three lemons. Boil all together one minute, 
strain through a sieve or fine cloth ; when nearly cold, add the 
whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; beat all well together, 
set it in a cool place, and when it begins to thicken beat it well ; 
repeat this several times ; then pour into moulds. Set in the 
ice several hours. Serve with cream. 

* A Dessert of Rice. 
Wash a cup of rice in two or three waters, and put it in a 
quart of milk sweetened to your taste, add a pinch of salt, and 
a cup of stoned raisins, put it in a farina-boiler, and cook it one 
hour. To be eaten with cream, cold. 



202 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Stewed Rhubarb. 

Peel the stalks and cut them in pieces half an inch in length, 
pour boiling water on it and drain a moment in a cullender, put 
it over the fire in a preserving-kettle, with plenty of sugar, but 
no water, as the fruit is very juicy, and with the sugar will 
make all the syrup you need; stew it a few minutes ; just before 
taking it off the fire, add the peel of a lemon cut in thin slips. 
When cold, put it on pie-crust prsviously baked, or fill a vol-avr 
vent with it. 

Apple Custard, No. 1. 

Pare, core and quarter eight tart pippin apples and place them 
close together in a deep pie-dish ; roll the skin of a lemon on a 
quarter of a pound of sugar and sprinkle it over the apples; 
cover with puff paste, and bake three-quarters of an hour, or 
until the apples are tender. When the pie is baked, cut out the 
whole centre of the crust, leaving the rim round the edge ; when 
cold, pour over it a custard, made with half a pint of milk, three 
eggs, sugar to your taste, and a teaspoonful of extract of^vanilla, 
boiled in a farina-boiler until it begins to thicken. 

Apple Cnstard, No. 2. 

Pare and core six tart apples, cook them in a syrup of sugar 
and water until tender, butter a pudding-dish, lay them in the 
bottom. Beat the yolks of eight eggs, stir them in a quart of 
milk with sugar to your taste, pour it over the apples, and bake 
half an hour. 

* Apple Float. 

The whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, add to them 
five heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar, beat it well in, and 
add a bowlful of apple-sauce, sweetened and flavored with lemon- 
peel ; heap it in a glass dish, and pour round it a boiled custard 
made with the yolks of the eggs and a quart of milk. 

* Baked Custard. 
Beat the yolks of two and the white of one egg very light j 
mix tc a smooth paste a teaspoonful of flour in a little milk, add 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &c. 203 

it to the eggs with a small teacup of rich milk, flavor with vanilla, 
lemon-peel or peach-water, pour it in a pie-dish lined with a 
good crust, grate nutmeg over the top, and bake about twenty 
minutes. 

* Boiled Custards. 

Beat the yolks only of eight eggs, and stir in them gradually 
a quart of new milk, and add sugar to your taste ; put the cus- 
tard in a farina- kettle, and set it over the fire ; stir it until it 
thickens sufliciently to stick to the spoon ; then flavor with two 
teaspoonsful of the extract of vanilla or peach-water, set the 
kettle in cold water a few minutes, stirring all the time, then 
pour into glass or china cups, grate a little nutmeg over the top 
of each custard, and set in a cool place. 

* Chocolate Custards. 

When making the above custards, after flavoring them, pour 
out half only of the yellow custard into the cups, have ready 
dissolved in a little milk over the fire a small teacup of grated 
chocolate, in which you have put a little sugar, add this gradu- 
ally, stirring all the time, to the custard remaining in the kettle, 
When thoroughly mixed, pour into cups and set away to cool. 

* Cocoanut Custard. 

Boil a pint and a half of milk, sweeten to your taste, and cool 
it, beat four eggs separately and then together, add to them a 
cocoanut grated, stir in the milk, and bake in crust, as in Cocoa- 
nut Pudding, p. 183. 

* Cold Custard. 
A tablespoonful of rennet wine in a quart of milk that has 
bean slightly warmed an hour before dinner ; grate nutmeg over 
the top, and serve with cream and sugar. 

* Lemon Custard. 

Two cups of sugar, two of cold water, two tablespoons of flour, 
two large juicy lemons, and six eggs beaten separately ; mix the 
flour and sugar together drv, then add the rind and juice of thp 



^04 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

lemons, then the water, and then the eggs — the whites of the 
eggs heaten very light and added to the yolks before putting 
them in the custard. Bake in crust. 

* Snow-ball Custard. 

Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth ; boil a quart of milk 
in which you have stirred two tablespoonsful of sugar. When 
boiling hot, drop in the whites, a tablespoonful at a time, boil 
until a little firm, lay them on a dish ; beat the yolks of the egga 
with three or four tablespoonsful of sugar, stir them gradually 
into the milk, stir it over the fire or in a farina-kettle until it 
thickens, then flavor with vanilla or peach-water, pour out, and 
when cold, lay the whites on the top. 

Cream Puffs, No. 1. 

Put two ounces of butter in a sauce-pan, with a gill and a 
half of water ; when boiling, stir in a quarter of a pound 
of sifted flour, stir until it thickens ; take it off and add four 
eggs, one at a time, beating well ; drop in buttered puff-tins and 
bake about twenty minutes. Be careful not to take them out 
of the oven too soon, or they will fall. 

Filling for the Puffs. 

Stir together four tablespoonsful of sugar and the yolks o^^ 
four eggs; add three tablespoonsful of milk, set over the fire and 
stir constantly ; beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth and 
gradually turn the yolks and milk into them, stir gently, add a 
leaspoonful of extract of vanilla or peach-water. When cold, 
open the side of the puffs with a sharp knife, fill them with the 
custard and close again, sift fine sugar over and serve. 

Cream Pu:^, No. 2. 

Put in a sauce-pan a pint of water and half a pound of butter, 
bring to a boil; stir in whilst boiling three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, take it from the fire, and whilst cooling, add ten eggs, 
throwing them in one at a time, stirring and beating until all 



PASTIiT, "UDDIKGS, &c. 205 

are in ; then add one teaspoouful of cold water ; with a spoon 
drop the mixture in small cakes on tins well buttered, and bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. When done, cut the sides open 
with a pair of scissors, and put in each two teaspoonsful of the 
custard made as follows : Half a cup of flour, one cup of pow- 
dered sugar, two eggs and a pint of milk ; boil the milk, mix the 
3ggs, flour and sugar together, pour them into the milk, stirring 
all the time over the fire ; flavor with vanilla bean boiled in the 
milk and taken out before you add the eggs and sugar. 

* German Puffs, 
Beat very light the whites of four eggs, then beat the yolks 
and add the whites gradually to them, beating all the time; stir 
in them five tablespoousful of flour and a pinch of salt ; add a 
pint of milk ; butter teacups, and pour them only half full. 
Bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven. This quantity makes nine 
pufl^s. Serve them as soon as they are baked, with wine-sauce 
or butter and syrup-molasses. 

* Omelette Souffle, No. 1. 

Beat separately the whites and yolks of eight eggs, roll a fresh 
lemon on four tablespoousful of powdered sugar, mix together 
the yolks and whites of the eggs, add the sugar ; mix two even 
tablespoonsful of flour very smoothly in a little milk or cream, 
and stir into the eggs ; pour them into a buttered pudding-dish, 
and bake fifteen minutes. Serve quickly. 

* Omelette Souffle, Wo. 2. 

Boil half a quarter of a pound of butter with two and a half 
tablespoonsful of sifted flour, stirring all the time ; add a tum- 
bler of new milk ; stir over the fire until the consistence of 
Btarch ; take it from the fire, and add quickly the yolks of four 
eggs beaten light and the grated rind of a lemon; let it stand 
until just before dinner, then add two heaping tablespoonsful 
of powdered sugar and the whites of the eggs beaten very light. 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a quick oven, and serve im- 
mediately. This quantity is suflScient for four or five persons. 



206 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Apple Fritters. 

Make a batter the same as for pan-cakes, but beat the eggs 
separately and very light, then add the yolks and whites together, 
beat them well, and add the flour with a tablespoonful more thao 
for the pan-cakes, then the milk. Peel the apples, core them, 
and cut them in very thin slices, dip them in the batter, and 
fry in hot lard ; drain them, and sift white sugar over them. 
Serve with sauce or syrup-molasses. Or you may peel and quar- 
ter the apples, and chop them very finely and stir them in the 
batter. For plain fritters leave out the apple. 

* Bread Fritters. 

Cut slices half an inch thick from a stale loaf of baker's 
bread, break the yolks of three eggs in a deep dish, beat them 
slightly, and add half a teacup of milk, and a pinch of salt. 
Melt in a frying-pan equal quantities of butter and lard, dip each 
slice of bread in the milk and eggs, and when the butter is boil- 
ing hot, fry a nice brown on both sides, sprinkle thickly with 
sugar and cinnamon, and serve hot; or you may melt a table- 
spoonful of currant-jelly in a sauce-pan with two glasses of 
Madeira wine and pour over, grating a little nutmeg on each 
slice. 

French Fritters. 

Put into a sauce-pan a pint of milk, a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, a little grated lemon-peel or two teaspoons of extract of 
vanilla, a teaspoonful of white sugar, and a pinch of salt ; bring 
it to a boil, stir in flour a handful at a time, until the milk is all 
absorbed, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon, and keeping 
it boiling until it becomes quite thick and detaches itself from the 
bottom of the sauce-pan ; then remove it from the fire, and 
break in six eggs, one at a time, stirring constantly until the 
paste will retain its shape in the spoon ; have melted in a fry- 
ing-pan some very nice lard, drop the paste from the spoon in 
small pieces, and fry a nice color over the fire ; they will swell 
very much. Take them out with a perforated skimmer, and sift 
powdered sugar over them and serve. 



PA&TRY, lUDBlNQS, Sc. 207 

* Orange Fritters. 
Peel and slioe half an inch thick fine tart juicy oranges (two 
or three), take out all the seeds, sprinkle the slices with pow- 
dered sugar, make a batter as for apple fritters, lay a slice of the 
orange in a large spoonful of the batter, and put it in the boiling 
lard. Serve with wine and sugar, or sugar only. 

* Plain Fritters. 
Measure five heaping tablespoonsful of flour, then sift it, and 
stir very gradually into it a pint of milk; add a pinch of salt, 
beat the yolks and whites separately of four eggs, add the yolks 
to the flour and milk, beat well together, then add the whites of 
the eggs, and drop spoonsful of the batter into boiling lard. 

* Spanish Fritters. 

Cut stale baker's bread in slices half an inch thick, and then 
in strips like lady-fingers or any size you wish. Sweeten a pint 
of cream or rich milkj beat three eggs, stir in them a little 
ground cinnamon, cloves and grated nutmeg, and a little pinch 
of salt, add them to the cream, lay the bread on a flat dish, pour 
the custard over it, and let it stand until all absorbed by the 
bread; fry a light brown in butter and lard. 

* Apple Meringue. 

Peel, core and slice a dozen fine large tart apples, put them 
over the fire in a preserving-kettle, with a teacup of cold water ; 
stew them until soft, press them through a cullender, sweeten to 
your taste and flavor with the grated rind of a lemon ; put them 
in a pudding-dish ; make a meringue of the whites of three eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth with three heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
shape nicely over the apples and brown slightly in a quick oven. 
Serve cold, with cream. 

Corn-starch Meringues. 
Mix six tablespoonsful of corn-starch to a smooth paste in a 
coffeecup of milk, boil a quart of new milk, stir in the corn- 



208 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

starch, and boil it four minutes, stirring all the time ; add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt, and the yolks 
of three eggs beaten light; flavor with the juice and grated rind 
of one large or two small lemons ; pour this into crust that you 
have previously baked; make a meringue of the whites of the 
eggs and powdered sugar, cover the tops of the puddings with 
it, shape nicely with the back of a spoon, and brown slightly in 
a quick oven. 

* Custard Meringue. 

Cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with slices of sponge- 
cake moistened with sweetened wine ; make a boiled custard 
of the yolks of eight eggs and a quart of milk, sweetened to 
your taste and flavored with extract of vanilla or peach-water. 
When perfectly cold, pour over the cake. Beat the whites of 
four eggs with five tablespoons of powdered sugar until a stiff 
froth, pour over the custard, shape nicely with the back of a 
spoon, and brown slightly in a quick oven. 

* Raspberry Meringue. 

Bake two sponge cakes half an inch thick in jelly cake tins 
the size of a dinner-plate, cover the lower one with raspberry 
jam half an inch thick, place the other on top of the jam ; make 
a meringue of the whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth 
with three heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar, shape over 
tvith a spoon and brown slightly in the oven 

Rice Meringue. 
Boil a teacup of rice ; whilst hot stir in a quarter of a pound 
of butter ; let it cool, then add half a teacup of powdered sugar 
and a quart of milk ; beat the yolks of four eggs and stir them 
in, flavor with the grated rind of a lemon ; butter a pudding- 
dish, pour in the rice, bake half an hour in a hot oven ; make a 
meringue with the whites of four eggs, beaten with half a pouna 
of powdered sugar and the juice of a lemon, pour it over the 
rice and shape with a spoon ; brown slightly in a hot oven. 



PASTE r, PUDDINGS, &c. 209 

Slanc-mange. 
; half a box of gelatine in cold water enough to co\ir it; 
bring to a boil a quart of cream and a pint of milk, add the 
gelatine ; let it boil gently a few minutes, then add half a pound 
of sifted sugar and two teaspoons of vanilla extract ; give a boil 
up and pour into moulds. This quantity makes two medium- 
sized forms. To be eaten with cream. 

Almond Blanc-mange. 

Blanch, dry and pound in a mortar two ounces of almonds, 
using a little rose-water in pounding them to prevent their oiling. 
Put an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of new milk, and dis- 
solve it over the fire with a piece of vanilla bean. When dis- 
solved, strain out the bean, and add an ounce of butter, the 
almond paste, and a quart of cream ; boil it twenty minutes, and 
add half a pound of powdered sugar; put in moulds, and set in 
a cool place or on ice. 

* Blanc-mange of Corn-starch. 

One quart of new milk, mix with apart of it four tablespoon sful 
of corn-starch, put the remainder of the milk on the fire to boil ; 
when it comes to a boil, pour it in a farina-kettle, stir in the 
corn-starch, with four heaping tablespoons of sugar, and let it 
boil, stirring all the time until clear like starch ; then flavor with 
two teaspoonsful of extract of vanilla, and pour into a mould. 

Blanc-mange of Iceland Moss. 

Take a handful of moss, wash it clean in cold water, pour off 
the water and pour boiling water on it, and let it stand for a 
minute ; strain off the water, and put the moss in two quarts of 
milk that has been sweetened and flavored with lemon or vanilla ; 
put the milk in a farina-boiler, stir it occasionally until the con- 
sistence of custard ; then strain through a fine clot'' into moulds, 
and set in a cool place. 
14 



210 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Blanc-mange of Isinglass. 

Put an ounce of isinglass over the fire in half a pint of milk 
with a piece of vanilla bean. When dissolved, add a quart of 
cream; an ounce of butter, and two ounces of svreet almonds 
blanch 3d and pounded in a mortar with a little rose-water to 
prevent their oiling; boil all together twenty minutes; just be- 
fore taking from the fire, add half a pound of sifted sugar, pour 
into moulds, and set on the ice. 

* Cream Blanc-mange. 
Dissolve a quarter of a box of gelatine in two wine-glasses of 
wine, standing it in boiling water on the range ; sweeten a pint 
of rich cream, flavor with a teaspoon ful of essence of vanilla; 
when the gelatine is dissolved, stir it in the cream, whip it to a 
froth with a trifle churn, pour it into a mould and set it in a cool 
place for several hours before it is wanted. 

Chocolate Blanc-mange, No. 1. 

Grrate a teaeupful of chocolate, add to it a pint of water and a 
teacup or more of sugar ; let it simmer until the chocolate is all 
dissolved, add a quart of milk, and one-third of a paper of corn 
starch mixed in cold water. When the milk begins to boil, stir. 
in the corn-starch, boil it five minutes, flavor with vanilla ex- 
tract, and pour into moulds. 

* Chocolate Blanc-mange, No. 2. 
Put an ounce of gelatine in cold water to cover it, and let it 
stand for an hour; grate four ounces of chocolate, melt it over 
the fire in a little cold milk, taken from the quart you will use ; 
then add the balance of the quart, with three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar and the yolks of two eggs beaten ; boil five 
minutes, then add the gelatine, boil up once, flavor with vanilla 
extract, pour into moulds and get in ice. 

Chocolate Blanc-mange, No. 3. 
One quart of milk, one large cofieeeup of sugar, half a package 
of gelatine, one quarter of a cake of chocolate grated finely; mix 



PASl^tY, PUDDINGS, &b. 211 

all together and boil an hour in a farina-kettle. This makes two 
medium-sized moulds. 

* Gelatine Blanc-mange. 
Soak a quarter of a box of Cox's gelatine in a quarter of a pint 
of cold water for one hour ; then pour over it half a pint of boil- 
ing water, stir in a heaping coffeecup of sifted sugar and the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon ; stir it until the sugar is dis- 
solved J then strain through a sieve or fine cloth ; beat the 
whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the gelatine 
when it is cold ; whip all well together, pour into a mould and 
set on the ice. Make a custard of a pint and a quarter of new 
milk, the yolks of the eggs and five tablespoonsful of sifted 
sugar; set it in boiling water and stir until it sticks to the spoon 
and begins to thicken ; turn out to cool. When ready to serve, 
turn the gelatine out of the mould into a deep glass dish, and 
pour the custard round it. 

* Peach Blanc-mange. 

Dissolve two-thirds of a box of gelatine in half a pint of milk 
over the fire ; peel and seed eight large ripe peaches, and press 
them through a sieve, and beat into them very gradually a quart 
of rich cream, with a coflFeecup of powdered sugar. When the 
gelatine is dissolved, stir it into the peaches and cream and pour 
into moulds and set on the ice. This may be made in winter 
with preserved or canned peaches. If preserved, take two heap- 
ing tablespoonsful of peaches with their syrup. 

* Rice Blanc-mange. 

Six tablespoons of rice ground in a mill, and soaked in water 
twenty minutes, stir it into a quart of new milk, boil it half an 
hour, stirring it all the time ; flavor with vanilla and sweeten to 
taste, and pour in a mould ; eaten with cream. Boil this in a 
farina-kettle. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 1. 

Cover half a box of gelatine with cold water and let it stand 
an hour; add to it three heaping tablespoonsful of sugar; 



212 COOKERS FROM EXPERIENCE. 

set it on the stove and let it come to a boil ; cool it, add a tea. 
spoonful of vanilla essence'^ whip to a froth a pint of rich cream, 
vi hich must be very cold ; stir the gelatine in it ; line a mould 
with lady-fingers or sliced sponge-cake, pour in the mixture and 
set in the ice. 

* Charlotte Russe, No. 2. 

Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of new milk over 
the fire, with a piece of vanilla bean ; whip to a froth a pint of 
rich cream, with a wine-glass and a half of Madeira or Sherry 
wine in it ; beat the yolks of four eggs with four heaping table- 
spoonsful of sugar, and the whites separately to a stiff froth. 
When the isinglass is all dissolved, take out the bean, and when 
a little cool, stir it into the yolks and sugar ; add the whites of 
the eggs and cream, beat all together for a few minutes, and 
pour into a mould lined with slices of sponge-eake or lady-fingers. 
Set in the ice until wanted. 

* Charlotte Russe, No. 3. 

Whip a pint of cream with a trifle churn ; as it is light, skim 
it off and put it in a large bowl until all is whipped. Beat the 
whites of four eggs perfectly light, dissolve half an ounce of gela- 
tine in a wine-glass of good cooking wine by placing it m a 
small sauce -pan on the range or stove, but do not let it boil; 
when entirely dissolved, stir into it a teacup of powdered sugar 
and a teaspoon of essence of vanilla; stir the whites of eggs 
into the cream ; then add quickly the wine and gelatine. Before 
making the above, line a large deep bowl with lady-fingers or 
sliced sponge-cake, pour in the mixture and set it in the ice or 
ID >. pan of snow. It should be prepared several hours before it 
is wanted. The cream that drains from the whip may be stirred 
into the gelatine, wine and sugar, before mixing with the cream 
and egg. Stick the cake to the mould by dipping one side in 
the beaten white of ess. 

Charlotte Russe, No. 4. 
Pound a vanilla bean with a lump of sugar and boil it in a 
tumbler of milk, strain off, and add to the milk two eggs, beaten 



PASTRY, PUDDl^'GS, dec. 213 

very light separately, a teacup of sugar, the weight of a cent in 
gelatine, dissolved in as little hot water as possible ; beat to a 
froth with a churi a pint of cream and lay it on a sieve (this 
can be done first, as it will stand); add the cream to the cus- 
tard, and stir it all together until quite cold, but not congealed; 
line a mould with strips of cake and pour it in, or have ready 
baked a square sponge-cake, from which you have scooped the 
inside, and pour in the custard. 

* Charlotte Busse, No. 5. 

Make a soft boiled custard of a pint of milk and four eggs, 
flavor with a teaspoon of essence of vanilla and sweeten with a 
pound of powdered sugar ; dissolve an ounce of gelatine in half 
a pint of water, add it to the hot custard, and stir until cold ; 
then add a quart of cream, whipped to a froth with a trifle 
churn, pour into a mould lined with lady-fingers, and set in the 
ice until wanted. 

Charlotte Russe, "So. 6. 

Beat the yolks of seven eggs and stir them gradually into a 
pint of scalded milk, sweeten to your taste, set it in a pan of 
boiling water until it thickens, then set it away to cool. Pour a 
ooflfeecup of warm water over half a box of gelatine, stir it on 
the stove until dissolved ; beat the whites of seven eggs to a 
stiff froth, with powdered sugar to make it like icing ; then 
whip a quart of rich cream with a trifle churn and stir it in the 
custard ; stir in now the whites and sugar, flavor with vanilla, 
then the gelatine; beat all well together. When perfectly cold, 
pour it into a mould lined with sponge-cake or lady-fingers. 

* Charlotte Russe, No. 7. 

One-third of a box of gelatine dissolved in half a pint of boil- 
ing water ; when dissolved stir in it a teacup of powdered sugar, 
add two teaspoons of extract of vanilla and the beaten yolks of 
three eggs ; whip to a froth a quart of rich cream, drain it on a 
sieve ; put the cream that drains from the whip into the gela- 
tine and egg, and stir in the whipped cream ; line a dish with 



214 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

sliced sponge-cake or lady-fingers, pour the mixture in and set it 
in a cool place for several hours. 

* Bavarian Cream. 
Dissolve half a box of gelatine in a pint of milk, set it over 
the fire, stir until all dissolved and quite hot; then take it off. 
Beat the yolks of seven eggs quite light ; stir in them five heap- 
ing tablespoons of powdered sugar ; add to them half a pint of 
cold milk ; stir well together, and add the hot milk and gelatine. 
When thoroughly mixed, stir in half a pint of rich cream ; if 
not sweet enough, add more sugar; flavor with vanilla or peach 
water ; put all on the fire again, and stir until it thickens a 
little ; then pour in a form and set it on the ice for three oi 
four hours. 

* Curds and Cream. 

Put two tablespoonsful of prepared rennet into two quarts of 
milk, and set it near the fire for an hour ; then break it up with 
a spoon and let it stand half an hour longer ; pour off the whey 
and turn the curd into a perforated mould ; let it stand for six 
hours, then turn it out very carefully on a dish, and serve with 
cream and sugar. This is very nice. 

* Prepared Rennet. 

Procure of your butcher a rennet that has been stretched and 
dried ; wash it clean and wipe it dry ; then cut it from the 
hoop, and cut it in pieces half an inch square, put it in a bottle 
holding rather more than a pint, and fill it up with Madeira or 
Sherry wine. In two or three weeks it will be ready for use. A 
tablespoonfu] is sufficient for a quart of milk. This is only for 
cold custard or junket and cheese-cakes; for cream cheese use 
that which you procure at the druggist's, with no winfe in it, 
unless you prefer the flavor of wine in the milk. 

Spanish Cream. 
Put an ounce of gelatine in three pints of rich milk put it 
m a sauce-pan over the fire, and simmer until the gelatine is all 
dissolved, stirring it al' the time; then add three-quarters of a 



PASTRY, PUDDINGS, &o. 215 

pound jf sifted sugar, take it from the fire, beat six eggs very 
light, and stir them slowly into the mixture ; put all on the fire 
again, let it thicken, stirring all the time. When this is done, 
taks it from the fire, flavor with two teaspoons of vanilla extract, 
let it cool a little, beat it up well, and pour into moulds which 
have been wet with cold milk and drained. Set in a cold place 
until wanted. 

Velvet Cream. 
One coffeecupful of good cooking wine, two-thirds of a box 
of gelatine soaked for half an hour in a pint of cold water, and 
a coffeejup of sifted sugar ; set all together in a sauce-pan over 
the fire, let it come to a boil. When nearly cold, add one pint 
of cream, beat all well together, and put in a mould. 

* Wine Cream. 

Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in a cup and a half of good 
cooking wine, add to it three-quarters of a pound of sugar, the 
rind and juice of a lemon or an orange ; simmer until the sugar 
is all dissolved, strain it through a sieve or fine cloth. When 
cool but not congealed, stir it gradually into a pint and a half of 
rich cream, pour into moulds, and set on the ice. 

Whips. 

Mix together a pint of rich cream, a quarter of a pound of 
fine white sugar, half a pint of wine (Sherry or Madeira), the 
juice of a lemon and the whites of four eggs beaten to a stifi^ 
froth ; beat well with a trifle churn and skim off the froth as it 
rises ; fill glasses about half full of the cream which remains 
after you have churned it, heap the froth on top and serve. 

Frost Jelly. 

Put half a box of gelatine to soak for an hour in half a pint of 
cold water, add to it half a pint of boiling water, the juice of two 
and the rind of one lemon. When nearly cold, strain it, and 
when it begins to form, add the beaten whites of two eggs, beat 
all well together, and p lur into a mould and set on the ice. 



a 1 6 CO OKEB Y } B OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Orange Jelly. 

Soak half a box of gelatine an hour in a pint of cold water, add 
to it half a pint of boiling water, a coffeecup of sifted sugar, the 
juice of six large oranges, the grated rind of one; stir all well 
together. When sugar and gelatine are dissolved, pour it in a 
mould and set it on the ice. 

* Wine Jelly. 

To d box of gelatine add a pint of cold water, the juice of 
three and the rind of one lemon ; let it stand an hour, then add 
two and a half pints of boiling water and two pounds and two 
ounces ot sifted sugar ; stir until the sugar is entirely dissolved, 
then strain it through a thin cloth, and add a large tumbler of 
good cooking wine and five tablespoonsful of brandy ; set it in a 
cool place. It will be ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

* A Frozen Dessert. 

A pint and a half of cream, rind of one orange grated, the 
juice of two, a quarter of a pound of stale macaroons grated 
fine, six ounces of sugar; whip the cream and stir all in it, and 
freeze like ice cream. 

Bird's Nest. 

This is a pretty dessert, and must be prepared the day before 
you want it. Soak half a box of gelatine in half a pint of cold 
water for one hour, pour on it a pint of boiling water, add a 
pound of sifted sugar, and the juice of two fresh lemons, with 
the rind of one grated ; stir all together until the sugar is dis- 
solved, then strain it through a thin cloth, add a teacup of wine, 
and pour it into a glass dish. Cut the rind from three lemons 
very thin with a sharp knife, divide it in narrow strips and as 
long as you can get them ; cover them in a sauce-pan with cold 
water, and simmer until tender; strain off the water, add to 
them a small teacup of sifted sugar, the juice of a lemon, and 
half a cup of boiling water, and simmer until the rind is clear 
(about twenty minutes) ; take out the pee) and drain on a sieve. 



FASTEF, I'UDJDINGS, &,c. 217 

For the eggs, boil a quart of milk, sweeten it to your taste, and 
stir in it whilst boiling four tablespoons heaping full of oorn 
starch mixed in a little cold milk or water, boil it four minutes, 
stirring all the time, flavor with two teaspoonsful of extract -<f 
vanilla; empty as many eggs of their contents through a small 
hole in one end as you have persons at the table, wash them out 
with cold water, and fill them through the little aperture with 
the blanc-mange, and stand them to cool in a basin of bran until 
you want them. Next morning lay the lemon-peel around on 
the top of the jelly in the shape of a nest, break the shells from 
the blano-mange, and arrange them in it and serve. 

Apple Bird's Nest. 

Peel juicy tart apples, slice very thin a quart-measure of them, 
put them in a buttered pudding-dish or shallow tin pan, pour 
over them a teacup of hot water. Make a stiflF batter of a pint 
of sour milk, a little salt, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 
and flour to form the batter. Put in last a teaspoonful of soda 
in a little hot water ; if in a flat tin, it will bake in half an hour ; 
longer if in a pudding-dish. Serve with butter, sugar and 
cream. 

* Trifle. 

Line the bottom and sides of a deep glass or china bowl with 
slices of sponge-cake, pour over a half pint of sweet wine, and 
let it stand until the cake has absorbed all the wine. Make a 
custard of a pint and a half of new milk, the yolks of five and 
the whites of two eggs, with sugar to your taste, boil it in a 
farina-boiler until it begins to thicken, stirring all the time, set 
it aside, stirring occasionally until perfectly cold ; then pour it 
over the cake and wine, and let it stand for an hour. Sweeten 
to your taste a pint and a half of rich craim, use powdered sugar' 
in which you have rolled a lemon, to extract the oil and flavor 
the cream ; whip it to a froth with a trifle-churn, taking ofi' the 
froth as it rises with a skimmer, and putting it on a sieve cov- 
ered with a piece of very thin muslin. Dot the cake before you 
pour the custard over with preserved cherries little pieces of 
jelly or marmalade; put the whip on the custard just as it i.* 



218 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

wanted, and ornament the top with small macaroons soaked in 
wine. 

* Cheese-cakes. 
Put two quarts of milk in a basin near the fire, and stir in it 
two tablespoonsf'ul of prepared rennet, let it stand an hour, then 
break it up with a spoon, and let it stand half an hour longer, 
and pour it into a cullender to drain. When dry, put it into a 
basin, and rub it fine with the back of a wooden spoon ; stir to 
a cream half a pound of butter and three-quarters of a pound of 
powdered sugar, add a third of a nutmeg grated, a saltspoonful 
of powdered cinnamon, a wine-glass of brandy and one of wine, 
and a little grated lemon-peel; beat six eggs very light, add 
them with the curd, and bake in puff paste crust about half an 
hour. One pint of cottage cheese can be used if at hand, in- 
stead of preparing the curd as above ; rub it very smooth with 
the back of a wooden spoon. 

* Pan-cakes. 
Break four eggs into a basin, beat them very little, merely to 
mix them together, stir in them a quarter of a pound of sifted 
flour, with a pinch of salt and a little grated nutmeg; mix them 
very smoothly, then add half a pint of rich milk or cream, melt 
a little piece of butter in a round pan the size of a dessert-plate. 
When hot, put in two tablespoonsful of the mixture, let it spread 
over the pan, set it over the fire ; when slightly brown on one 
side, turn it over ; when colored slightly, take it out, lay it on a 
clean cloth ; proceed thus until all are done ; then spread either 
cinnamon and sugar thickly over each one, or a thin spread of 
marmalade, roll them up, lay them on a bakinig-tin, sift sugar 
over, set them in the oven three minutes, then serve. 



CAKE. 



* Fruit-cake, No. 1. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar and flour, ten eggs, 
one pound of raisins seeded, one of currants washed and dried, 
and half a pound of citron cut in little strips. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add to them half a small nutmeg grated, a 
pinch of cinnamon and the rind of half a lemon grated ; stir 
well ; then add the yolks of the eggs beaten light ; stir these 
well together, and then add the flour alternately with the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth ; mix the fruit altogether, and stir 
in it two heaping tablespoons of flour, and stir it in the cake. 
Bake slowly nearly two hours ; if browning too much, cover 
with thick paper. When the cake shrinks from the sides of the 
pan, and a broom splint run down the centre of the cake comes 
out clean and dry, the cake is done ; and this is the test for all 
kinds of cake. 

Fruit-cake, No. 2. 

One pound of powdered sugar, one of butter, one of flour, 
twelve eggs, two pounds of raisins seeded, two of currants washed 
and dried, half a pound of citron cut in little slips, one table- 
spoonful of powdered mace, one of cinnamon, one nutmeg; mix 
a large wine-glass of Madeira wine and one of brandy and steep 
the spices in it over night. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the yolks of the eggs beaten light, then the wine and spice ; 
beat well and add the flour alternately with the whites of the 
eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; mix all the fruit together, put on 
them two heaping tablespoons of flour, stir it through them, and 
add all to the cake, when ready to put it in the pans. Bake in 
two cakes, slowly nearly two hours. Line the pans with but- 
tered paper, and cover the cake with thick pap -r as soon as it is 
brown on top. 

(219) 



220 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

"^ Black Cake. 

One pound of butter, one and a half pounds of sugar and the 

same of flour, ten eggs beaten separately very light, a teacup of 

rich cream, one of molasses, a teaspoonful of saleratus, the same 

of cinnamon and cloves, half an one of powdered mace, two 

pounds of raisins seeded, two of currants washed and dried, and 

half a pound of citron cut in little strips. Stir the butter and 

sugar to a cream, add the spices and a tablespoonful of best 

brandy; beat well, then add the yolks of the eggs and stir again, 

add the molasses, and when that is well mixed in, add the flour 

alternately with the whites of eggs, leaving out a small teacup 

of the flour to stir in the fruit. Just before you put in the 

fruit, beat in the cream with the saleratus dissolved in it ; now 

add the fruit and put in the pans ; if all in one, it will take 

nearly four hours to bake and must be put in a moderate oven. 

As soon as it browns on the top, cover with thick paper. The 

bottom and sides of the pan must be covered with buttered white 

paper. 

English Fruit-cake. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, the same of flour, 
nine eggs, two pounds of currants washed and dried, a quarter 
of a pound of shelled almonds, blanched, dried and chopped, a 
quarter of a pound of citron cut in little strips, half a pound of 
candied orange peel, the same of candied lemon peel, cut in 
small pieces, half a grated nutmeg, half an ounce of ground all- 
spice, a quarter of an ounce each of ground cinnamon, powdered 
mace, ground ginger and coriander seed pounded in a mortar, 
and a gill of good brandy. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the spice, then the yolks of the eggs beaten Ught, then the 
brandy, then the flour, alternately with the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth ; beat up well, and add the fruit, with a 
couple of tablespooQsful of flour, which you have left out of the 
pound; line the pan with buttered paper, pour the cake in, and 
bake in a moderate oven nearly two hours, cover the cake with 
thick paper, when brown on top. If you add half a pound of 
stoned raisins to this cake, it is Engl'sh bride-cake. 



CAKE. 221 

Parmer's Fruit-cake. 

Three coffeecups of dried apples, two of molasses, one of butter, 
one of sugar, one of raisins stoned and chopped, two eggs, the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, two teaspoonsful of soda, 
and one pound and about half a cupful of flour : to be the con- 
sistence of soft ginger-cake. Put the apples to soak in cold 
water over night; in the morning chop them very fine and stew 
them in a cupful of the water they were soaked in and two of 
molasses. When very soft, take them from the fire, turn them 
out to cool, and add to them whilst warm two teaspoonsful of 
powdered cinnamon, the same of cloves, and the juice and rind 
of the lemon. Stir to a cream the butter and sugar, and add 
the eggs beaten light, then the apples and raisins, then the flour, 
and last the soda dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot water. 
Bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half or two hours ; test 
with a splint. 

Harrison Cake. 

Five cups of flour, five eggs, one and a half cups of butter, 
the same of sugar, one cup of molasses, one of milk, with a 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, a wine-glass of brandy, one 
pound of raisins, half a pound of citron, a teaspoonful of pow- 
dered cloves, the same of cinnamon. Mix like pound-cake, 
leaving out a little flour for the fruit; add the milk and soda 
last ; then stir in the fruit, and bake all in one, or in square 
flat tins. 

* Imperial Cake. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, and the same of flour, 
two wine-glasses of brandy, one pound of raisins, half a pound 
of citron, one pound of almonds blanched and split in half, half 
ii teaspoon of soda in a very little milk, and ten eggs. Mix like 
poundcake, leaving out two tablespoonsful of the flour to stir 
through the fruit. Stone the raisins and cut the citron in little 
strips ; add the fruit last, and stir in the soda just before you 
add it. Bake all in one, or ir small square tins ; flavor with two 
small nutmegs grated. 



222 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

French Loaf-cake, "So. 1. 

Five cups of powdered sugar, three ctlps of fresh butter, two 
cups of milk, six eggs, ten cups of sifted flour, a wine-glass of 
brandy, one of wine, three grated nutmegs, two teaspoons of 
soda or pearlash, one pound of raisins seeded, a quarter of a 
pound of citron cut in strips. Beat the eggs separately ; cream 
the butter and sugar, then add the eggs, a little of the flour, 
then wine, brandy and spice, then the rest of the flour, leaving 
out a little to dust through the fruit, then the milk with the 
pearlash dissolved in it, and last the fruit. Divide in four pans, 
and will take about one hour to bake ; bake in round broad pans. 

French Loaf-cake, No. 2. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, eight eggs beaten separately, one pound of raisins, 
mixed with two tablespoonsful of flour from the weight, one 
glass of wine, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, one nut- 
meg grated ; stir the butter and sugar t(^ cream, add the wine 
and lemon-juice; beat wellj then the ^ks of the eggs, then 
the flour ^ernately with the whites of the eggs, fruit last; bake 
like pound-cake or in square tins. Put the lemon-peel and nut- 
meg in before you add the flour. 

Plain Fruit-cake. 

Three-quarters^^a pound of butter, one and a quarter pounds 
of sugar, one and three-quarter pounds of flour, five eggs, one 
pint of rich milk, a teaspoonful of saleratus and two pounds of 
seeded raisins. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
eggs and milk, then the flour, leaving out two tablespoonsful to 
stir through the fruit, then the saleratus dissolved in a tea- 
spoonful of hot water ; beat all well togelfeer, aqd add the fruit 
Bake all in one, or in flat tins. 

* Raisin-cake. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, three-quarjiers ^ a pound 
of butter, five eggSj a small oup of cream or ^<!h milk, a tea- 



CAKE. 223 

spoon even full of cream of tartar, half an one of soda, and one 
pound of fine raisins seeded and cut in half. Mix like pound- 
cake, put the cream of tartar in the flour, leaving out two table- 
spoonsful to stir through the raisins ; put the milk in last with 
the soda dissolved in it, and then stir the fruit through and baike 
quickly — either in square tins, or all in one cake, 

* Washington Cake. 

One and a half pounds of butter, one and three-quarter 
pounds of sugar, the same of flour, eight eggs, a pint of cream, 
two pounds of seeded raisins. Mix like pound-cake, add the 
cream to the butter, sugar and eggs, when beaten light; flavor 
with a tablespoonful of rose-water, a wine-glass of brandy and 
the peel of a small lemon grated, a very little grated nutmeg ; 
flour the raisins with a tablespoonful taken from the weight ; 
stir in last a teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little of the 
cream, add the fruit, and bake in one large or two smaller cakes. 

J* * Queen's Cake. 

One pound of white sugar, one of flour, three-qu"„rters of a 
pound of butter, one pound of stoned raisins, hatf a pound of 
currants washed and dried, and a quarter of a pound of citron 
cut in little pieces, a wine-glass of brandy, oiiie of wine, one of 
cream, six eggs beaten separately and then/together, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two of cinnamon, two of ci es; stir the sugar 
and butter to a cream, add the eggs, then the brandy and wine, 
then spices and flour, and last the soda in the cream ; leave out 
two tablespoonsful of the flour to stir in the fruit, which add 
last. Bake in two cakes in round, deep pans for nearly an hour 
and a half; cover with paper when brown on the top; line the 
pans with buttered plfper. 

* Scotch Cake, No 1. 

Stir to a cream one pound of sugar and three-quarters of a 
pound of butter ; beat nine eggs very light separately and then 
together, stir them in the butter and sugar, add one pound of 



224 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

siftei flour, the juice and grated rind of one lemon, and a wine- 
glass of brandy; just before putting in the pans, stir in otfe 
pound of raisins stoned, and floured with a little flour you have 
left out of the cake. Bako in a large tin pan, with a hole through 
the centre, as a Turk's head, or in square tin pans. 

Scotch Cake, No. 2. 

Rub three-quarters of a pound of butter into one pound of 
sifted flour, stir in it one pound of powdered sugar and a table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, add three eggs, mix all together, roll out 
very thin, cut in round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

Molasses Fruit-cake. 

One cup of molasses, one and three-quarter cups of ligHt- 
brown sugar, one cup of butter, four eggs, one cup of cold water. 
Boil the molasses, sugar and butter together; let them cool, 
flour as thick as pound-cake ; then add the eggs ; beat it well; 
add gradually the water, with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
it, then add one pound of raisins, one of*currants and half ac 
one of citron, with two heaping tablespoons of flour mixed 
through the fruit. Bake nearly two hours, if all in one ; half 
the time, if in two cakes. Stir in a saltspoonful of salt. 

Citron-cake. 

Eight Cj^gs, their weight in flour, the same of sugar, the 
weight of five in butter, a little powdered mace. Mix like 
pound-cake, and put in a buttered pan a layer of cake and one 
Df citron cut in thin strips, alternately, until the cake is all in 
the pan. 

* Amber-cake. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of milk, 
fi\e eggs, a teaspoonful of pearlash, half a pound of raisins, 
three-quarters of a pound of almonds, one piece of citron, a tea- 
spoonful of extract of bitter almonds ; stir the butter and sugar 
together, add the yolks of the eggs, beat them well in, then the 
flour alternately with the whites of the eggs, then the milk with 



CAKE. 225 

ibe pearlas^i dissolved in it, then the fruit dusted with a little 
of the flour, then the almonds blanched and split in half You 
may add a coffeecup of the kernels of shellbarks in the place 
oi almonds. Bake all in a large cake, or in square tins. 

Composition-cake. 

Five cups of flour, three of sugar, two of butter, one of milk, 
five eggs beaten separately, a wine-glass of brandy or wine, one 
nutmeg grated, a teaspoonful of soda, one pound of raisins 
seeded, half a pound of currants washed and dried ; stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the brandy and 
spice, half the flour; beat very light, then add the other half of 
the flour, beat again, then the milk with the soda dissolved in it, 
last the fruit with a little of the flour stirred through it, which 
prevents it from sinking to the bottom of the cake. Bake about 
an hour. Try with a broom splint. 

Molasses Cup-cake. 

One and a half coffee-cups of butter, two of brown sugar, one 
of molasses, one of milk, five of flour, four eggs, a teaspoonful of 
soda, a small tablespoonful of ginger, a teaspoonful of cloves, the 
same of cinnamon, half an one of powdered mace, a coff'eeoup 
of raisins seeded, the same of currants, and half an one of citron. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the 
molasses, spice, flour, and last the milk with the soda dissolved 
in it. Leave out a tablespoonful of flour to stir through the 
fruit ; put this in just before you pour into the pans. Bake all 
in one, or in square flat tin pans. Try it with a broom splint. 

Light Cake. 

Take a pint of bread dough, beat into it two eggs ; boil a 
small half teacup of milk, stir in it while boiling a teacup of 
sugar and half an one of butter. When nearly cool, add half a 
teaspoon of soda and a little flour; knead all together into the 
dough, flatten it out in a square tin which you have buttered; 
put half a pound of seeded raisins in a bowl with a teaspoon of 
15 



226 CO OKER Y FROM EXPERIENCE. 

cinnamQn, a tablespoonful of sugar and a piece of butter the 
size of a nutmeg; rub all together until the raisins are well 
covered, then stick them down through the dough, let it rise. 
When light, cover the top with sugar and milk mixed to a paste, 
and bake. 

• Fruit Jumbles. 
One pound of butter, the same of sugar, one and a quartet 
pounds of flour, six eggs, half a wine-glass of brandy, a little 
nutmeg, half a pound of raisins seeded or currants washed and 
dried. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the brandy 
and spice, then the eggs beaten separately, then the flour, leav- 
ing out a tablespoonful to stir through the fruit. Drop on but- 
tered tius, or bake in small cakes. 

Fruit Ginger-cake. 

One pint of molasses, a teacup of sugar, three eggs, seven 
ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of ground cloves, three table- 
spoonsful of ground ginger, one pound of raisins seeded, and a 
half pound of citron cut in little slips, flour to the consistence 
of pound-cake. Stir the sugar and butter to a cream, add the 
eggs; mix the molasses, cloves and cinnamon together, and stir 
them into the butter, sugar and eggs ; then add a teaspoonful 
of saleratus dissolved in a cup of cream, then the fruit with two 
tablespoonsful of flour stirred through it, and bake in a large 
cake. 

* Strawberry Short-cake, 

In New England, where this cake originated, the wild straw- 
berries are used for it, and are the best ; where they cannot be 
procured, have ready about two quarts of berries ; make the 
cake as for soda biscuit : three pints of flour with three tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar sifted in it, a teaspoonful of salt, 
two tablespoonsful of butter and one of lard rubbed into the 
flour ; mix it with a pint of milk with a teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in it ; roll it out half an inch in thickness, and bake either 
in one or two cakes, in a quick oven, about fifteen or twenty 



CAKE. 227 

in "mutes. Split the cake open as soon as it comes from tbn 
oven, mark it round the edges with a knife, and separate it with 
the fingers ; cutting it makes it heavy. Butter both top and 
bottom cakes, spread the strawberries on the lower one, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered sugar, lay the top crust on the berries, 
and serve it with rich cream. To be cut at the table. This is 
nice for dessert or the tea-table. Bake it in large round or 
square tins. 

* Whortleberry-cake. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three cups and a half vf 
flour, four eggs, a cup of sour milk, juice and rind of a, lemon, 
a small teaspoon of soda, and two cups of whortleberries. Stir 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the lemon, then the yolks 
of the eggs beaten light, then flour and whites of eggs beaten to 
a stiff froth, last the milk ; dissolve the soda in a teaspoon of 
hot water and beat it in just as you put it in the pans. Bake 
all in one or in square tins. Fruit to be put in just after the 
soda. 

Plum-cake. 

One pound of butter, one of sugar, one of flour, ten eggs, one 
pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, one nutmeg grated. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs 
beaten light, a glass of brandy and the nutmeg, then the flour 
alternately with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
last the fruit with two tablespoons of flour stirred through it. 
Bake like pound-cake ah hour and a half. 

* Loaf-cake. 

Four pounds of dough ready to bake, two pounds of sugar, one 
pound of butter, five eggs, and two pounds of seeded raisins; 
flavor with cinnamon and nutmeg, and add half a tumbler of 
brandy. Mix the sugar, butter and eggs beaten, into the dough. 
When thoroughly incorporated, add the brandy and fruit; put 
it in the pans and let it rise for an hour or more and bake. 



228 COOKEB Y FB OM EXPEEIENCE. 

* Coffee-cake. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, four of flour, 
one of cold strong coffee, a teaspoonful of soda, and two of 
cream of tartar, four eggs, a teaspoonful of cloves, one and a 
half of cinnamon, one pint of stoned raisins, one of currants, 
and half an one of citron. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add spices, molasses, eggs, coffee, flour with the cream of tartar 
sifted through it, and last the soda dissolved in a spoonful of 
hot water. Bake in shallow pans, or all in one round cake. 

* Tibbie's Sponge-cake. 

Eight eggs, their weight in sugar, and half their weight in 
flour ; beat the eggs separately very light, stir the yolks and 
sugar together, and the whites alternately with the flour, which 
must be sifted ; use half sifted and half powdered sugar, and add 
one more yolk of egg than you weighed, leaving out the white, 
the grated peel of one lemon ; bake in brick-shaped tins, and 
ice whilst warm. 

* Scranton Sponge-cake. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, seven eggs, half a pound 
and an ounce of flour. Put the sugar over the fire with six 
tablespoons of hot water, boil it three minutes, beat the eggs 
Sf.parately, pour the sugar boiling hot very gradually over the 
yolks, stirring all the time ; then add the whites also very slowly, 
beating all the time, then the flour gradually. When all is in, 
beat a few minutes, pour into brick-shaped tins, and bake in a 
quick oven. 

Sponge-cake No. 3. 

Six eggs, two teacups of sugar, and two of flour sifted lightly 
into the cup, the juice and rind of a lemon. Beat the eggs sepa- 
rately very light, beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar, add 
the lemon, then the flour and whites of the eggs alternately ; 
beat well together and bake. 



CAKE. 229 

* Spongre-eake, No. 4. 

Beat six eggs \ery light separately, take their weight in sugat 
and half their weight in flour ; beat together the yolks and sugar, 
then add the whites and flour alternately, and just before put- 
ting in the pan, stir in a tablespoonful of melted butter. Bake 
in a Turk's head. 

* Sponge Ginger-cake. 

One coffeecup of sour milk, one of molasses, one half cup of 
butter, two eggs, one tablespoonful of ginger, a quart of flour, 
and a teaspoonful and a half of soda. Beat together the molas- 
ses, the butter warmed a little, eggs, milk and ginger ;. then stir 
in the flour, add the soda dissolved in a very little hot water. 
Bake in square tins. 

* Republican Cake. 
One pound of sugar, the same of flour, and a half a pound of 
butter, one cup of rich cream, five eggs beaten very light sepa- 
rately, two teaspoons of cream_^of tartar, one of soda, and the 
rind and juice of a large lemon. Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the lemon, stir it well in, then add the yolks of the 
eggs, then the cream, flour (beating each in well), and last the 
whites of the eggs. Put the cream of tartar dry in the flour, 
the soda dissolved in a spoonful of hot water, and added last. 
Bake in one large cake as pound-cake. 

Lady-cake without Almonds. 

Three cups of flour, two of sugar, half an one of butter, one 
of cream or rich milk, the whites only of four eggs, a tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar dry in the flour, half an one of soda 
dissolved in the cream, half a pound of citron cut in strips and 
flavored with extract of bitter almonds. Mix like pound-cake, 
add the cream last, just before you put in the fruit, and bake 
quickly , 

* Clove-cake. 

Four and a half cups of flour, three and a half of sugar, one 
of milk, one and a half of butter, four eggs, one tablespoonful 



iJ30 CO OKER T FR OU EXPERIEKC E. 

of cloves, a tablespoonful of cinnamon, one nutmeg grated, a 
tablespoouful of molasses, a teaspoonful of soda in the milk. 
You may add fruit if you like, but it is a very nice cake with- 
out. Mix like pound- cake, and put the soda and milk in last. 
Bake in a Turk's head or pound-cake pan. 

* Connecticut Cake. 
One pound of sugar, one of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, five eggs beaten separately, half a cup of sour cream, 
a small teaspoon of saleratus, the grated rind and juice of a 
lemon, and one pound of raisins seeded. Mix and bake like 
pound-cake. 

* Buckeye Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, six eggs, 
a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the milk, and four cups of 
flour with two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar sifted in it. Stir 
the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, beat well, flavor 
with a little grated lemon-peel, then add the flour, and last the 
milk and soda. Bake in flat tins. 

* S, E. B.'s Cake. 

Half a pound of butter and three cups of powdered sugar 
stirred to a cream ; add three eggs beaten separately and then 
together, a tablespoonful of brandy, a cup of milk, a little cinna- 
mon, two full cups of flour, and a teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in the milk, and last a cupful of currants washed and 
dried, with a tablespoonful of flour additional stirred through 
them. Bake in shallow pans. Measure the flour for this cake 
before it is sifted; then sift it. 

* Corn-starcli-cake. 
One paper of ojrn-starch, three-quarters of a pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar, six eggs beaten separately, half a teacup of 
milk, half a teaspoon of soda, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar 
Stir the butter and sugar to a creani, beat half the corn-starcli 
in the yolks of eggs and add them, beating well, mix the cream 



CAKE. 231 

of tartar in the other half of the corn-starch, stir it in with the 
Bugar, &c., then the whites of the eggs, and last the milk and 
soda. Flavor to your taste, and bake in shallow pans or in a 
Turk's head. Best when first baked. 

Dover-cake, 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, half an one of butter, six 
eggs, a half pint of sour cream, with a teaspoonful of soda. Stir 
butter aud sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs, beat them 
well in, then stir a tablespoooful of brandy and the third of a 
nutmeg grated ; then the whites of the eggs alternately with the 
flour ; beat well, adding the cream as you beat, last the soda in 
a teaspoonful of hot water. Bake in flat tins or all in one in a 
Turk's head. 

* Peggy's Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, four of flour, one of butter, one of sweet 
milk, six eggs, a teaspoonful of cream of tartar in the flour, half 
a teaspoonful of soda in the milk. Mix like pound-cake, add 
soda and milk last. Bake in shallow tins or a round pan ; test 
with a broom splint. When it does not stick, the cake is done 

Chocolate-cake. 
One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, and 
a cup three-quarters full of grated chocolate. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the beaten yolks of the eggs, beat 
well, then the whites beaten to a stiff froth alternately with the 
flour ; beat very hard, stir in the chocolate, and bake in one 
large cake or in square tin pans. 

B.iee-cake. 

One pound of riee-flour, one of sugar, half a pound of butter. 
nine eggs, a wine-glass of rose-water, peel of a lemon grated, two 
even teaspoons of cream of tartar, one the same of soda. Mix 
like pound-cake ; cream of tartar dry in the flour, and the soda 
in a teaspoonful of hot water just as you put it ic the pans. 
Bake like pound-cake or in flat sqviare tins. 



232 COOKERY FROM fjXPEBIENCE. 

Suowflake-cake. 

One scant cup'of butter, two cups of sugar, one of sweet milk, 
one of corn-starch, two of flour, one and a half teaspoons of 
cream of tartar, three-quarters of a teaspoonful of soda and the 
whites of seven eggs. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add 
the whites of the eggs, then the corn-starch ; beat all well to- 
gether, then stir in the flour with the cream of tartar in it dry, 
then the milk with the soda dissolved in it. Bake like pound- 
cake or in shallow tins. 

* White Cup-cake. 
One cup of fresh butter, two cups of powdered sugar, four of 
sifted flour, and a large cofieecup of rich cream. Beat the 
whites only of five eggs to a stifi' froth, stir the .butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the eggSf^then the cream, a half of a small 
nutmeg grated, and the rind of a fresh lemon. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a orearff add the lemon and nutmeg, then the 
cream, the flour alternately with the whites of eggs, last a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus or soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot 
water. Bake in shallow pans or in a large cake. By adding 
jthe yolks of the eggs to this recipe you have a fine cream-cake. 

* White Almond-cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one of cream, whites of four eggs, a tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar and half an one of soda, flour as stiff as 
pound-cake, a teaspoonful of extract of almond. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the whites of the eggs, then the ex- 
tract, flour, and last the cream of tartar beaten well in dry, and 
the soda dissolved in a very little hot water. Bake all in one or 
in square tins. 

Black Cake. 

Three cups of molasses, one of butter, one of eream, four eggs, 
six cups of^our, a tablespoonful of ginger, and a teaspoonful of 
soda. Beat all well together, soda and cream last Bake in 
Turk's head. 



CAKE. 23? 

* Delicate Cake. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of cream, ind four of 
flour, the whites of ten eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; fl;i\ n with 
the grated peel of half a lemon, two teaspoonsful of c earn of 
tartar and one of soda. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, 
add the lemon, the whites of the eggs, then J^e flour with the 
cream of tartar sifted through it, and la^the cream with the 
soda dissolved in it. Bake in shallow tins or all in one like 
pound-cake. 

Hyde Park Cake. 

Three eggs beaten separately, two cups of sugar, one of sweet 
milk, one of butter, a teaspoonful of soda, and two of cream of 
tartar sifted in three cups of flour. Stir the butter and sugar to 
a cream, add the yolks of the eggs, the peel of a lemon grated, 
then the flour and whites of the eggs alternately, then the milk 
with the soda in it. Bake in square tins. 

* West Philadelphia Cake. 

One cup of butter, one and a half of sugar, three cups of 
flour, three eggs beaten separately, one cup of cream, two tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar, one of soda. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, flavor with lemon-peel, a little grated nutmeg, 
and a pinch of cinnamon ; add the eggs, then the cream, then 
the flour with the cream of tartar in it, and last the soda dis- 
solved in a very little hot water. Bake in square pans. 

A Good Cupcake. 

Three cups of sugar, one of butter stirred to a cream with the 
sugar, five eggs beaten light and added, a cup of sour eream, 
five cups of flour, a grated nutmeg, and last a teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus or soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water. You may 
add fruit, if yoircfloose. Bake in shallow pans or tins. 

Soda-cake. 

One teacup of white sugar, a heaping tablespoonful of butter, 
one egg, two cups of flour, and a small ciip of milk. Stir 



234 CO OKER T PR OM EXPERIENCE. 

together the butter,' sugar and egg; beat them light; flavor to 
your taste ; then add the flour with two small even teaspoons of 
cream of tartar in it, and last the milk with a small teaspoon of 
Boda dissolved in it. Bake in square flat tins. 

Jackson Cake. 
One pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a pint of 
rich cream, one pound of flour, and five eggs beaten separately. 
Stir the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, flavor to your 
taste, then the cream and flour alternately; beat very light. 
Bake in square tins, or all in one. 

* Gold Cake. 

The yolks of eight eggs, one cup of sugar, three-quarters of a 
*up of butter, two of flour, half a teaspoonful of soda, a tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. Mix like pound-cake — cream of 
tartar dry in the flour, the soda last in a teaspoonful of hot 
water. Bake immediately. Flavor with orange or lemon-peel 
grated. 

* Silver Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, one of 
cream, four of flour, the whites of four eggs, two teaspoons of 
cream of tartar and one of soda. Mix the same as gold-cake ; 
put the cream in last, with the soda dissolved in it. 

Oold-and-Silver Cake. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, the same of flour ; 
divide them — use half for the gold and half for the silver — the 
yolks of eight eggs for the gold, flavored with the juice and 
grated rind of a lemon — the whites of the eggs for the silver- 
cake, flavored with extract of bitter almond or peach-water. 

Another Silver Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, two and a half cups of flour, half a cup of 
butter, three-quarters of a cup of cream, half a teaspoonful of 
Boda in the cream, the whites c eight eggs, and one te^ispoonful 



CAKE. 235 

(if cream of tartar in the flour ; flavor with rose or peach-water. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the whites of the eggs 
beaten to a stiff froth, then the flour, and last the cream and 
soda. Bake like pound-cake, or in square tins. 

* Still another Silver Cake. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, the 
whites of four eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two of cream of 
tartar, three and a half cups of flour. Stir the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stifi'froth, 
the flour with the cream of tartar sifted through it; last the 
milk with the soda dissolved in it. Bake in square tins, or like 
pound-cake. Grate half a bar of chocolate, dissolve it in a 
tablespoonful of sweet milk, add sugar to sweeten it, one egg 
beaten, and a teaspoonful of extract of vanilla; stir it over the 
fire until it thickens, and spread over the top of the cake. 

* Cocoanut-cake, 
One pound of sugar and half a pound of butter stirred to a 
cream, add a wine-glass of brandy, beat it well in, then one 
eocoanut grated, six eggs and three-quarters of a pound of flour. 
Bake in one cake. 

* Pound-cake. 

One pound of butter, the same of sugar, same of flour, ten 
eggs, third of, a small nutmeg grated, and the grated peel of half 
a lemon. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks 
of the eggs beaten light, then beat the whites to a stifi' froth and 
add them alternately with the flour, flavor, put in a deep round 
pan and bake in a moderate oven. Try with a broom splint. 

* Orange-cake. 

Seven eggs, their weight in butter, flour and sugar ; mix like 

pound-cake. When the sugar and butter are creamed, stir in 

them the rind of two and the juice of three fine large tart 

oranges, beat well, add tih yxjlks of the eggs and the flour altei 



236 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

iiately with the whites beaten to a stiff froth j dissolve a small 
teaspoon even fall of soda in another of hot water, and stir in 
the last thing. Bake all in one large cake. This cake must be 
well beaten together. 

Dutch Cake. 
Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, three-quarters of 
a pound of flour, four yolks and two whites of eggs beaten light. 
Stir together like pound-cake, spread it in shallow pans, and 
sprinkle sifted sugar thickly over the top, and cinnamon over the 
sugar. Bake in a quick oven. 

Cinnamon-cake. 

Four cups of flour, two of sugar, one of butter, one of sour 
cream or buttermilk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Sprin- 
kle cinnamon and sugar over the top while hot. Bake in 
shallow tins. 

* Cocoanut-cake, No. 3. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, four of flour, half an one of 
milk, the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth, half a tea- 
spoon of soda dissolved in the milk, a teaspoonful of cream of 
tartar mixed in the flour, one grated cocoanut. Stir the butter 
and sugar to a cream, add the milk with the soda, then the 
whites of the eggs, then flour, last the cocoanut. For frosting : 
whites of two eggs beaten with half a pound of powdered sugar ; 
stir in half a grated cocoanut, cover the cake with it when nearly 
cold. 

Lady-cake. 

The whites only of sixteen eggs, one pound of sifted sugar, 
ten ounces of fresh butter, three-quarters of a pound of sifted 
flour, three ounces of bitter almonds blanched and pounded in a 
mortar giad ually with two wine-glasses of rose-water until a 
paste. ]mx like pound-cake, and add the almonds last, and bake 
in square tins or all in a large cake. 

* Cream Jelly-cake. 

Three eggs, one coffeecup of flour, and a teacup of sugar, 
three ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar 



CAKE. '237 

sifted in the flour, half an one of soda dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of hot water. Stir the butter and sugar to 
a cream, add the eggs beaten light, then the flour, and 
last the soda J flavor with a very little grated nutmeg and a 
pinch of cinnamon. Bake in jelly-cake tins, and when cold, put 
custard made as follows between the layers : Two cups of white 
Biigar, four eggs, a piece of butter the size of an egg, the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons; put into a farina-boiler the yolks 
of the eggs, the sugar and lemon-juice. When it begins to 
thicken, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stifi' froth, put 
them in very gradually, and stir in the rind of the lemon. 
When cool, spread between the layers of cake. 

* Custard for Jelly-eake. 

One egg, two tablespoonsful of sugar, two of flour, half a pint 
of milk, butter the size of a walnut ; put the milk in a sauce-pan 
over the fire ; when it boils, stir in the rest of the ingredients 
which have been all beaten together, let it boil a minute, stir- 
ring all the time, flavor with vanilla, and when cold, it is ready 
to spread between layers of cake. 

* Jelly-cake, No. 2. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, half a one of milk, three full 
cups of flour, two of sugar, four eggs, the rind of a fresh lemon, 
a teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half an one of soda.' Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the lemon, then the eggs beaten 
separately and then together, then the flour with the cream of 
tartar sifted through it, and last the soda dissolved in the milk. 
Bake in jelly-tins, half an inch thick when baked. Spread cus- 
tard filling between the layers, sift sugar over the top eake. 

* Jelly-eake, No. 3. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of sweet mill^three and 
a half cups of flour, the whites only of four eggs, two small tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar sifted dry in the flour, one small 
teaspoon of soda in the milk. Stir the butter and sugar together 
to a cream, add the whites of the eggs, then the flour, then the 
milk and soda. Bake in jelly-cake tins half an inch thick 



J38 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Put on the first cake a la3'er of currant-jelly ; on the second, 
chocolate filling j on the next, jelly again, and ice the top of it. 

* Cocoanut-cake. 

Three cups of white sugar, one of butter, one of sweet milk, 
four of flour, the whites of ten eggs. Mix like pound-cake; beat 
the whites of two eggs with five tablespoonsful of powdered 
sugar, spread over each layer of cake, and sprinkle it thick with 
grated cocoanut. 

* Orange-cake. 

Two cups of sifted sugar, two cups of flour with a teaspoonful 
of cream of tartar sifted in it, half a cup of water a little warm, 
with half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it, the yolks of five 
eggs, the whites of four, the juice and grated rind and the in- 
side soft part of one large orange. Beat the yolks of the eggs 
with the sugar, then add the orange, then the flour alternately 
with the whites of the eggs, and last the water and soda. Bake 
in jelly-cake tins half an inch thick when baked. The grated 
rind and juice of one orange mixed stiff with sifted sugar, spread 
between the cakes, the top one iced. This is a very fine cake. 

* Washington Cake. 

One cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg, two eggs, half a 
cup of sweet milk, a heaping cup of flour, a teaspoon even full 
of cream of tartar, half an one of soda ; stir the butter and sugar 
to a cream, add the eggs beaten very light, then the flour with 
cream of tartar sifted through it alternately with part of the 
milk ; the other part dissolve the soda in and stir in last of all. 
Bake in three cakes in jelly-cake tins. Filling — one cip of 
sugar, one egg, two tart apples grated, and the juice and rind of 
one lemon (the rind grated); beat all well together, let it come 
to a boil, Ifed spread while the cake is hot. 

* White Mountain Cake. 

One pound of flour, the same of sugar, half a pound of butter, 
six eggs, one cup of sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda beaten 



CAKE. 239 

in the cream, three teaspoonsful of vanilla extract; stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, beat the eggs separately and then 
together, and add them to the sugar and butter, then the vanilla, 
the cream, and flour alternately. Bake in three cakes in jelly- 
cake tins, spread icing flavored with vanilla between the cakes, 
and sift powdered sugar over the top cake. 

* Queen Cake, No. 1. 

Half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, and seven and a 
half ounces of flour, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cin- 
namon. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of 
five eggs beaten very light, then spice, and the flour alternately 
with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; butter little 
tins, fill them half full, and bake in a quick oven. Bea'' very 
light all together before you fill the tins. 

* ftueen Cake, BTo. 2. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, eight eggs, one 
teacup of cream, a wine-glass of rose-water, and a pound of 
currants. Mix like pound-cake, leave out a tablespoonful of 
flour to mix through the currants, add them last, and bake in 
little tins. 

Jumbles, No. 1. 

Stir to a cream one pound of butter and the same of sugar 
add a wine-glass of brandy and a little grated nutmeg, and one 
pound of flour, four eggs beaten light; drop on tins, bake in a 
quick oven, butter the tins. 

* Jumbles, No. 2. 

One pound of sugar, the same of butter, and the same of 
flour, six eggs beaten separately very light, a half of a grated 
nutmeg, and a pinch if powdered mace. Stir the butter and 
sugar to a cream, add spice, eggs, and last the flour ; drop on 
buttered tins, and bake quickly in a hot oven. When they 
commence browning round the edges, they are done. Take them 



240 00 OKEB T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

off carefully with a broad-bladed knife or a buckwheat-cake 

turner, and lay them on large dishes to cool. 

* 

Cocoanut Jumbles. 

Tw> cups of sugar, one of butter, two of flour, two eggs, and 
a Bocoanut grated; stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the 
eggs beaten light, then the flour, lastly the cocoanut. Use sifted 
sugar to roll them in instead of flour, sprinkling as little as you 
can on your slab or board. 

"Soft Jumbles." 
Two teacups of sugar, one of butter, one of cream, one egg, a 
teaspoonful of saleratus, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix like 
pound-cake, stir in three cups of flour, then the saleratus in the 
cream, and drop on buttered tins. 

* Plain Jumbles. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, two of flour, two eggs ; mix 
as other jumbles, drop from a teaspoon and bake on flat tins in a 
quick oven. Flavor with a little grated nutmeg. 

* Jumbles. 

Stir to a cream one pound of butter and one and a quarter 
pounds of sugar, add a wine-glass of rose-water and a small nut- 
meg grated ; beat four eggs separately very light, add them to 
the butter and sugar, then stir in a pound and a quarter of flour 
which has been sifted, and drop with a spoon on buttered tins. 
Bake quickly. 

Barbadoes Jumbles. 

Beat very light the yolks of four eggs, add a spoonful of rose- 
water, dust in a pound of fine white sugar ; beat the whites of 
eight eggs to a stiff froth and add them alternately with three- 
quarters of a pound of flour; stir lightly, and drop with a spoon 
on buttered tins the size of a macaroon. 



CAKE. 241 

Cream Drop-cakes. 

One coffeecup of very rich cream, one of sugar, one egg, a 
pinch of salt, half a teaspoon of soda; flavor with a little grated 
nutmeg or lemon-peel, and stir in flour enough to drop off the 
spoon. Bake on tins in a quick oven. 

* Drop-cakes. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs ; 
beat the butter, sugar and eggs together, add the flour, and drop 
on buttered tins. Bake in a quick oven. 

* Cpcoanut-drops. 

Half a pound of grated cocoanut, the same of white sugar, the 
whites of three eggs beaten light ; stir all together, drop on but- 
tered paper, lay the paper on tins, and bake in a modorate oven. 

* Chocolate-cakes. 

The whites of eight eggs, half a cake of chocolate grated, one 
pound of sugar, six ounces of flour ; beat the eggs to a stiff 
froth, add the sugar, then stir in the chocolate and flour. Butter 
flat tins, and drop on the mixture, not too closely, as the cakes 
will spread. Bake a few minutes in a quick oven. 

* Walimt-eakes. 
One egg, one cup of sugar, one teacup of walnut kernels, two 
tablespoonsful of flour, a pinch of salt ; drop half a teaspoonful 
for each cake on tins, and bake in a quick oven. Roll the walnut 
kernels quite fine before adding them. This may be made with 
almonds instead of walnuts. 

Drop-cake. 

Three cups of powdered sugar, one of butter, five of flour, 

three eggs beaten light, one cup'of sour rich cream, a teaspcDuful 

of saleratus, and half a cup of currants washed and dried. Stir 

the butter and sugai o a cream, add the eggs beaten very light, 

16 



M2 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

then the flour sifted ; beat all well together, then add the cream, 
and last the saleratus dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water. 
Leave out a teaspoonful of flour to stir in the currants. Drop 
on buttered tins and bake quickly in a hot oven. 

Drop Ginger-cakes. 

One pint of molasses, a teacup of sugar, one of butter, four 
eggs, two tablespoonsful of ginger, one teaspoon of salt, a table- 
spoonful of soda in half a teacup of hot water, flour enough for 
a stiff batter ; drop on tins with a spoon and bake. 

Warm the butter a little, beat it in the molasses, add the 
ginger and salt, a little of the flour, then the eggs beaten light, 
the flour next, a little thicker than you want it, to allow for the 
soda and hot water ; stir this in last ; beat up and bake. 

Madeline Cake. 
Three ounces of sugar, three of flour, one and a half of butter, 
two eggs; mix as other cake, beat very light, and bake in queen- 
cake tins. — Blot. 

* Macaroons, No. 1. 
Blanch a pound of almonds by pouring boiling water over 
them, and when the skin becomes loose, taking it off"; then dry 
them thoroughly, and this should be done some hours before 
yiu use them; then pound them, a few at a time, in a mortar, 
adding a little rose-water as you pound them, to prevent their 
oiling. When you have them all in a smooth paste, beat the 
whites of eight eggs with a pound of powdered sugar and a 
tablespoonful of flour, add the almonds and two more whites of 
eggs beaten light, drop them with a spoon on' buttered pajH^.r or 
'^ins, and bake quickly. 

Macaroons, No. 2. 

Blanch and dry half a pound of almonds the day before ym 
want to use them, placing them on a sieve to dry ; pound tliem 
in a mortar with a pound ant a quarter of sifted sugar ; >dd 



CAKE. 243 

gradually the whites of two eggs, pound well together ; keep 
adding the whites of eggs until you have used the whites of 
eleven eggs ; beat well, and lay them on paper in pieces the size 
of walnuts, so they will not touch. Bake in a moderate oven a 
light yellow color. Take them off carefully with a knife. 

Macaroons, No. 3. 

The whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff froth and added to 
three quarters of a pound of sugar, half a pound of almonds 
which have been blanched and dried, chopped very fine ; stir 
them in and drop on buttered tins. Bake in a moderate oven . 

Meringues. 
Beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, stir in lightly with 
a wooden spoon half a pound of powdered sugar, stir gently 
until thoroughly mixed, then lay them on white paper in the 
shape of eggs, sift powdered sugar thickly over the top, let them 
stand a few minutes, then shake off the superfluous sugar, lay 
the papers on boards (not pine), and put them in a moderate 
oven. When crisp and lightly tinted brown, take them out. 
When cool, remove them carefully from the paper, dip a spoon 
in hot water, scoop out the inside, dust them with powdered 
sugar, and they are ready to fill. Fill them with ice cream, or 
cream whipped to a froth and flavored with vanilla, lemon, wine 
or orange-flower water. 

* Crullers, No. 1. 
Half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, a cup and a half of 
sweet milk, four eggs, flour as thick as jumbles, two small tea- 
spoons even full of soda, and three the same of cream of tartar. 
Stir the butter and sugar together, with one egg (not beaten). 
When creamed, add the other three eggs, then the flour with 
the cream of tartar dry, and last the soda dissolved in the cup 
of milk. Boil them in lard the same as doughnuts; cut 
them in rings. When you take them from the fire, whilst hot, 
roll them in a mixture of cinnamon and powdered sugar; two 
parts sugar and one of cinnamon. 



244 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Crullers, No. 2. 

One eup of sugar, one of sour cream, butter the size of a walnut, 
three eggs, a teaspoon even full of soda, a little cinnamon and 
nutmeg, flour as thick as jumbles ; mix the same as above. Boil 
in lard, roll in powdered sugar. 

Crullers, No. 3. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of sweet milk, six eggs, 
one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half an one of soda, rind of a 
lemon grated, as little flour as you can roll them with, about like 
jumbles. Mix like pound-cake, boil in lard, cut in rings. 

Crullers, No. 4. 

Five pints of flour, sift in it four teaspoonsful of cream of 
tartar ; stir to a cream one and a half pints of sugar and a quar- 
ter of a pound of butter, add five eggs beaten separately, a 
little cinnamon and nutmeg; add two-thirds of a pint of milk, 
then the flour, and a third of a pint of milk with the soda in it 
last of all ; roll out, cut in shapes, and boil in lard. Sift pow- 
dered sugar over whilst hot. 

Very Fine Doughnuts. 
Half a pound of butter, a tablespoonful of lard, three-quarters 
of a pound of white sugar, five eggs, one and a half pints of milk, 
and a cofieocup of home-made yeast. Heat the sugar and milk 
together, mix them with flour enough to make a stifi' dough, 
melt the butter and lard together, and pour them hot over the 
dough, and work it well in with the hands; add the eggs beaten 
separately, a little cinnamon and nutmeg, and then the yeast. 
Set it over night in a warm place. When very light, next morn- 
ing, pinch off' pieces the size of a walnut, handle as little as pos- 
sible, rolling them lightly round ; drop in boiling lard. When 
brown, take them out, and whilst warm, sift powdered sugar 
over them. 



CAKE. 245 

* Plain Doughnuts. 
One pint of milk, two cups of yeast, one heaping cup of mixed 
butter and lard, three even cups of sugar, and as much flour •ts 
will make a soft dough ; knead it well together, and set in a 
warm place over night; next morning, if very light, roll out 
without adding any flour, let them stand a few minutes to rise j 
boil in lard. 

Doughnuts, "So. 2. 

Four quarts of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, four eggs beaten light, half a grated nutmeg. 
Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, a little salt, 
the nutmeg, a teacup of yeast and the flour. Set them over 
night, roll out in the morning, cut in shapes, let them rise again. 
When very light, boil in sweet lard. 

Quick Doughnuts. 
Three cups of sour milk, one and a half of white sugar, three- 
quarters of a cup of butter, one egg, a dessertspoonful of sale- 
ratus. Mix together the milk, egg and sugar, stir it until the 
sugar is dissolved, warm the butter a little, stir it in, and add 
flour until of a consistence to roll out ; then stir in the saleratua 
dissolved in a little warm water. Boil in lard. 

* Nonpareil Doughnuts. 
One and a ha]<^ pints of milk, three-quarters of a pound 
of sugar, half a pound of butter, half a nutmeg grated, 
a little salt. Boil the milk; when a little coel, stir in 
the butter, then the sugar and salt; and when only milk- 
warm, stir enough flour in to make a sponge, set them over 
night ; in the morning, add a little more flour, and let them 
rise again. When light, flour your paste-board, turn them 
on it, roll out, and cut about half an inch in thickness, and 
let them stand on the board, which you must flour to prevent 
their sticking. When they rise again, put them in boiling lard, 
and brown them nicely. Half a teacup of home-madi) yeast OT 
a coffeecupful of baker's yeast for this quantity. 



24(5 COOKER Y FB DM EXPERIENCE. 

Spanish Bunu, No. 1. 

One ajjd a quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, 
one pound of sugar, five eggs, a teacup of cream. Warm the 
cream sufficiently to melt the butter, and whilst warm, stir in the 
sugar. When cool, stir in the flour, then the eggs beaten light; 
then add a wine-glass of mixed wine and brandy, and last two 
teaspoons of cream of tartar dissolved in a tablespoonful of hot 
water ; then a teaspjonful of soda also dissolved in half a table- 
spoon of hot water ; beat all well together, and add a teacup of 
currants washed and dried with a tablespoonful of flour stirred 
through them. Bake immediately in flat tins. 

* Spanish Bunn, No. 2. 
Six ounces of butter, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of flour, four eggs, one cup of cream and one of currants, 
two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, and one of soda. Beat to- 
gether the butter, sugar and yolks of eggs, then add the cream, 
beat it in, and the flour with the cream of tartar sifted through 
it, then the whites of the eggs beaten light; and when well 
mixed, stir in the soda dissolved in a little rose-water, and last 
the currants. Ice whilst warm. Bake in flat tins. Very fine. 

Spanish Bnnn, No. '3. 

Three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, one pound and a quarter of flour, four eggs, a teacup of 
currants, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon, a wine-glass 
of milk and one of brandy. Melt the butter and sugar in the 
milk, sift the cream of tartar with the flour, and stir it in alter- 
nately with the eggs (which are to be beaten separately and then 
together), then add the spice and brandy, last the soda dissolved 
»n a little rose-water. Beat all well together, and add the cur- 
rants, and bake in a quick oven in flat tins twenty minutes. 

Albany Cakes. 
One and a half pounds of flour, one of sugar, half a pound of 
battel and a tablespoonful of lard, one egg, a tablespoonful of 



CAKE. 247 

rose-water, a little cinnamon, and a teaspoonful of pearlasb dis- 
solved in a cup of sour cream. Stir the butter and sugar to a 
cream with, the lard, add the beaten egg, cinnamon, cream and 
flour Koll out in thin cakes, and bake on tins in a quick oven. 

A-P's. 

Cream half a pound of butter and the same of sugar, add a 
wine-glass and a half of cold water, ten drops of essence of lemon, 
a few caraway seeds, and one pound of flour; roll out as thin 
as paper, and bake on buttered tins. 

Sand Tarts. 

One pound of sugar, one of flour, six ounces of butter, and 
two eggs. Stir the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs 
beaten separately very light, then the flour ; knead them well, 
roll out, sprinkle the top with cinnamon and sugar, and lay a 
few blanched almonds split in half over it. Score with a knife 
the size you want them, and bake in a quick oven. Paint the 
top of the cake over with white of egg beaten, to make the 
almonds, &c., stick, before you dust with the cinnamon and 
sugar. To blanch almonds, shell them, and pour boiling water 
on them ; let them lie until the skin loosens, then pull it off. 

New York Tea Cake. 

Three pints of flour, two and a half teacups of sugar, half an 
one of butter, half a pint of rich milk, a little salt, a small tea- 
spoon of soda, two of cream of tartar. Stir the butter and sugar 
together ; add the salt, a little lemon-peel grated, then the flour 
with the cream of tartar sifted through it alternately with the 
milk, soda last in a little cold milk. Koll out thin and cut into 
Bmall cakes. Bake in a quick oven. 

* Cookies, No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, one of milk, 
one egg, two teaspoon even full of cream of tartar, one of soda 



248 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

even full, nutmeg and cinnamon to your taste; roll out and bake 
in a quick oven (cut them in round cakes). 

* Cookies, No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, five of flour, three eggs 
beaten light, six teaspoonsful of milk, with a small spoonful of 
soda or pearlash dissolved in it ; stir the butter and sugar to- 
gether until light, add the eggs and a little cinnamon and nut- 
meg, then the milk, last the flour; roll out, cut in round cakes, 
and bake in a quick oven. 

New Year's Cakes. 

Stir to a cream three-quarters of a pound of butter and one 
pound of sugar, then stir in three pounds of flour with two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar sifted through it ; add half a pint 
of cold water with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in it ; stir in 
half a cup of caraway seed (more if you like) ; roll out into thin 
cakes and stamp with a pattern. These will keep fresh a long 
time. 

Bunns. 

One and a quarter pounds of sifted flour, rub into it half a 
pound of butter; beat two eggs, stir them into a pint of new 
milk, warm the milk a little and stir it into the flour and butter, 
add half a glass of brandy and the same of rose-water, half a 
grated nutmeg, a pinch of cinnamon and a teacup of yeast; mix 
all together with a knife and set to rise for several hours. 
When light, stir in half a pound of sifted sugar, and pour into 
buttered pans to rise. You may add a cofieecup of currants, 
washed and dried. 

Bunns, No, 2. 
One cup of sugar, butter the size of an egg ; stir them to a 
cream, add two eggs well beaten, a pint of flour with two tea- 
spoons of cream of tartar sifted through it, and last a cup of 
sweet milk with a teaspoonful of soda dissolved it it. Bake in 
shallow pans. 



CAR •;. 249 

* Moravian Ca&e. 
A pint-bowl full of bread dough ready for the pans, beat into 
It half a cup of butter, a cup and a half of sugar, and three 
eggs ; beat well together, pour into buttered pans, let it rise an 
hour, sprinkle cinnamon and sugar thickly over the top, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

* Rusk, No. 1. 

Stir together until light a teacup of butter, a coffeecup of 
sugar and two eggs ; boil a pint of new milk and pour over them 
boiling hot ; stir in flour until a stiff sponge, add half a teacup 
of yeast, and when perfectly light, roll out with as little flour as 
possible ; cut in cakes, put them in buttered pans and set in a 
warm place until very light. Bake in a quick oven ten or fifteen 
minutes. This sponge should be set in the evening, kept in a 
warm place, and made up in the morning. 

* Very fine Rusk, No. 2. 
Two pounds of fiour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of 
butter, one pint of milk, five eggs beaten light, a teacup of yeast 
and a teaspoonful of salt. Warm the milk and butter together, 
stir in the sugar, then the eggs and flour alternately, and set to 
rise in a warm place. Bake it all in one, and cut or break it. 
To be eaten with butter. 

Rusk, No. 3. 
One quart of milk, a teacup of cream, half a pound of lard, a 
quarter of a pound of butter and a teaspoonful of salt ; boil the 
milk and cream together, stir in while boiling the butter and 
lard ; beat two eggs very light, stir in them a pound of sifted 
sugar, pour the milk boiling hot over the sugar and eggs, stir- 
ring all the time. When cool, stir in flour sufficient to make a 
stiff batter, the salt and a teacup of yeast. When very light, 
add more flour, and knead into a soft dough. Let it rise again, 
then roll out and cut into biscuit, wet the tops with sugar and 
milk. Let them get very light, and ?)ake them in a quick oven. 
Sift sugar over them whilst hot. 



250 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Bread Rusk. 

Take as mucli bread dough, when ready for the pans, as woulJ 
make one loaf; spread it open, put on it a coflFeecup of sugar, 
butter the size of a large egg, and a little grated nutmeg; work 
all well together, mould it out, let it get very light, and bake in 
a quick oven, either as rusk or all in one loaf. 

* Dried Rusk. 

Boil a quart of milk, stir in it half a pound of butter and a 
little salt. When cool, but not cold, add a pound of sifted sugar, 
flour to make a stiff batter, and a teacup of yeast. Set this over 
night ; in the morning, add enough flour to make a soft dough, 
and let it rise until very light ; then roll out a little more than 
half an inch thick, cut them out the size of tea-biscuit, lay them 
in well-greased pans, two layers in each pan ; let them rise until 
very light, and bake about half an hour in a quick oven. When 
done, break them apart, spread them separately in pans, and let 
them dry slowly in a moderate oven until crisp and brown. If 
they are put in bags and hung up when cold, they will keep a 
long time, and are nice for delicate persons or young children. 

* Soft Gingerbread, No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one of butter, one of thick milk, one of 
molasses, three of flour, three eggs, a tabtespoonful of ginger, 
half a teaspoon of soda. Beat the eggs, butter and sugar to- 
gether, add the milk with the soda dissolved in it, then the 
molasses, spice and flour. Bake in square tins about twenty 
minutes. Try it with a broom splint 

* Soft Gingerbread, ITo. 2. 

Five cups of flour, four eggs, two cups of molasses, one of 
sugar, a tablespoonful of ginger, one cup of butter, and a tea- 
spoonful of soda or saleratus dissolved in a little milk or cream. 
Stir the butter and sugar together, then add the spice, eggs and 
molasses, thei> the flour, and last the soda ; beat hard, and bake 



CAKE. 251 

in square tins cr one large cake. Twenty minutes will be about 
the time required, if in square tins; if in one large cake, nearly 
an hour. Test with a snlint. 

* Soft Gingerbread, No. 3. 

One cup of molasses, one of sugar, half a cup of butter and 
lard mixed, one cup of sour milk, two eggs, three cups of flour, 
two t^3aspoons even full of soda, two tcaspoonsful of cinnamon, 
one and a half of ginger, one of cloves, and a little grated nut- 
meg. Bake in square tins fifteen or twenty minutes. 

Soft Gingerbread, No. 4. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, two of molasses, four eggs 
beaten light, five cups of flour, a tablespoonful of ginger, a tea- 
spoonfnl of saleratus dissolved in a little milk or cream. Rub 
the butter and flour together with your hands, then add the 
sugar, spice, eggs and molasses, last the saleratus. Bake in flat 
pans or in a large cake. 

Soft Gingerbread, No. 5. 

One cup of butter, one of brown sugar, a larger cup of mo- 
lasses, three cups of flour same size as used to measure the 
butter and sugar, and one of milk (small), five eggs beaten light, 
a tablespoonful of ginger and the same of cloves. Stir the 
butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, then the spice and 
molasses, then the flour, and last the milk with a teaspoonful of 
soda dissolved in it. Bake in square tins in a hot oven. 

* Ginger Cupcake, No. 1. 

Five eggs, two cofl^eecups of molasses, two of brown sugar, two 
of fresh butter, one of cream or rich milk, six cups of flour, half 
a cup of powdered cloves and allspice, half a cup of ginger, and 
a small teaspoonful of soda. Cut the butter into the milk, warm 
them to melt the butter, stir in the molasses, then gradually add 
the sugar, aid let it stand if not quite cool. Beat the eggs very 



252 COOKER Y FR OM EXPERl VKCE. 

light, and stir them in alternately with the flour, add the ginger 
and other spices, beat the whole very hard for a few minutes, 
then stir in the soda dissolved in a tablespoon of hot water, and 
bake in square pans or Turk's head. 

Ginger Cup-cake, No. 2. 

One cup of butter, one of sugar, one of molasses, one of sour 
cream, three of flour, three eggs, a teaspoonful of soda and three 
of ginger, a little powdered mace, a teaspoonful of cinnamon. 
Mix the same as soft gingerbread No. 1. 

Plain Ginger-cake. 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter, one cup of molasses, half a 
cup of brown sugar, one teaspoonful of soda in a cup of hot 
water, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves, a tablespoonful 
of ginger, three cups of flour. Stir the butter, sugar and molas- 
ses together, warm them slightly, add the spices. When the 
water the soda was dissolved in is cold, stir it in with the 
flour ; bake in a slow oven in square pans. 

Soft Ginger-cake. 

Six cups of flour, six eggs, four cups of sugar, two of molasses, 
two of thick milk, two of butter, one and a half tablespoonsful 
of ginger, and a teaspoonful of pearlash or soda. Beat the eggs, 
butter and sugar together, then add the molasses, spice and milk, 
then the flour, and last the pearlash in a tablespoonful of hot 
water Bake in square shallow tins. 

* Fine Ginger-cake. 

A cup and a half of butter, one of brown sugar, two of mo- 
lasses, four eggs beaten together, four cups of flour, two table- 
spooBrsfnl of ginger, three-quarters of a nutmeg grated, three- 
quarters c^a cup of sour cream, and a small even teaspoon of 
saleratus or soda. Beat all together, and bake in square pans ; 
add the cream last. A pound of raisins stoned, and the same of 
currants washed and dried makes it a very nice fruit-cake. 



CAKE. 253 

Ginger-cake. 

Two pounds of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, four cups 
i)f molasses, two of milk, five eggs, two heaping tablespoonsfui 
of ginger. Bake in square pans. 

* Orange Gingerbread. 

Sift two pounds and a quarter of flour, stir in it three-quarters 
of a pound of light-brown sugar, an ounce of ground ginger, an 
ounce of allspice, and six ounces of candied orange-peel cut 
small. Warm three-quarters of a pound of butter and stir it in, 
then mix to a dough with molasses, roll it out very thin, using 
as little flour as possible, cut it in small round cakes, and bake 
in a quick oven. 

Gingerbread. 

One pint of molasses, half a pint of melted butter and lard 
mixed, one eoffeecup of light-brown sugar, two teaspoonsful of 
cinnamon, three of ginger, a little grated nutmeg, and enough 
flour to make it stiff enough to roll out ; roll as thin as you can, 
cut in round cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 

* Crisp Gingerbread. 

Three pounds of flour, one of sugar, one of butter, three table- 
spoonsful of ginger, one of powdered cloves, a teaspoonful of 
powdered mace, and the grated rind of a fresh orange ; cut the 
butter into the flour, and rub it through with your hands until 
thoroughly mixed, then add the spices and orange-peel, mix well 
together and wet it with molasses, roll it very thin, and bake 
quickly in a hot oven. 

* Ginger Snaps, No. 1. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of brown sugar, a quarter 
ol a pound of butter and lard mixed, half a pint of molasses, a 
tablespoon even full of ginger, a teaspoonful of clove^ the same 
of cinnamon and allspice, a little grated orange-peel and flour 
enough to roll it out with. Melt the butter and lard, and stir 



254 CO OKER T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

it into the molasses, add the sugar, spices, and then the flour ; 
roll out as thin as possible and bake in a quick oven. 

* Ginger Snaps, No. 2. 

One and three-quarter pounds of flour, half a pound of butter, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pint of molasses, one tablespoon- 
ful of ginger, one and a half of cinnamon, the same of cloves. 
Rub the butter in the flour, add the sugar, spices, and last the 
molasses. Eoll out very thin and bake in a hot oven. 

Ginger Snaps, No. 3. 

One pint of molasses, one cofieecup of sugar, one of butter, 
a tablespoonful of saleratus, and a tablespoonful of ginger ; beat 
all well together, and add flour enough to roll out. Roll very 
thin and bake on tins in a very hot oven. 

* Ginger Snaps, No. 4. 

A cofi"eecup of molasses, one of sugar and one of butter, three 
tablespoons of ginger and one of cinnamon ; boil the molasses, 
spices and sugar together, cool with the butter, add a teacup of 
sour milk and a teaspoonful of soda in a spoonful of hot water, 
flour enough to make a stiff dough; roll out very thin, and bake 
quickly. 

* Ginger Snaps, No. 5. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of butter, a teaspoonful of 
ginger, one of cloves, one of soda; put all over the. fire together, 
let it come to a boil ; have a large vessel or it will foam over. 
When nearly cool, add flour enough to make a dough, roll out, 
and cut in small cakes. Very flne recipe. 

* Gingerbread Nuts, No. 1. 

One and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, and the same of butter, one ounce of ginger, the same of 
cloves, ciilnamon and allspice, the grated rind of an orange, and 
half a teaspoonful of powdered mace. Mix all well together aa 
above, then stir in molasses until a stiff dough, let it staud half 



CAKE. 255 

an hour, then make in little balls the size of a walnut, press 
them flat, and lay them not to touch in a buttered pan ; bake in 
a moderate oven about ten minutes. 

Gingerbread Nuts, No. 2. 
Three and a half pounds of flour, one pound of butter, half 
a pound of brow n sugar, five tablespoons of ginger, three of all- 
spice, two of cinnamon, and a quart of molasses. Rub the 
butter in the flour, add the spice and sugar, then the molasses; 
mix well, roll out, cut in little cakes, bake on tins. 



ICINGS, &c. 



* 'White Icing. 

Set the whites of the eggs you intend for icing in a cool place 
an hour before beating them — if in summer, on ice ; beat them 
to a stiff froth, and allow a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar 
for every egg — add the sugar gradually, beating all the time ; 
try it by dropping some off your beater ; if it remains on the 
surface a moment or two without sinking, it is ready for the 
cake ; spread it on with a broad-bladed knife whilst the cake is 
still warm, and dry it in the sun or in a cool oven for a few 
seconds. 

Chocolate Iciug. 

Make the icing as above, and stir in it very finely-grated cho- 
colate, until as dark us you wish it. 

* Chocolate Filling for Cake. 

Half a cake of sweet chocolate grated, half a cup of sweet 
milk, the same of powdered sugar, the yolk of one egg, and a 
tablespoonful of extract of vanilla ; stir the chocolate in the 
milk, add the egg, sugar and vanilla ; set it in a vessel of boiling 
water and stir until a stiff jelly. When cold, spread it betweeu 
the layers of cake. Used also as frosting for cake. 

* Chocolate Filling, No. 2. 
Half a bar of chocolate, grated and stirred into a tablespoonful 
of sweet milk; sti- over the fire to a paste; add a heaping table- 
17 (-'57) 



258 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

ipoonful of powdered sugar, oae beaten egg, and a teaspoonfal 
of extract of vanilla ; thicken over the fire, and spread betweea 
lajrers of cake when cold. 

* Apple Filling for Cake. 
Three tart apples grated, one cupful of powdered sugar, one 
egg, the grated rind and juice of one large lemon; put all to- 
gether in a small sauce-pan and boil two minutes. When cold, 
spread between layers of cake. 

* Orange Filling. 

The juice and grated rind of a large orange, the white of one 
egg, and sifted sugar to make a stiff paste ; spread between 
layers of cake and ice the top one. 

* Lemon Filling. 

Two cups of sifted sugar, the juice of two lemons, the yolks 
of three eggs ; mix all together and set in a vessel of boiling 
water until it thickens ; then add the whites of the eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth. When cold, spread between the layers of cake. 

* Lemon Filling, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, the juice and grated rind of two lemons; put all into a 
farina-boiler and stir over the fire until it thickens ; use only 
the yolks of the eggs ; beat up two of the whites with half a 
pound of powdered sugar, and spread over the top cake. 

* Cocoanut Filling. 
Make an icing of the whites of four eggs and a pound of pow- 
dered sugar, spread between the cakes and sprinkle grated cocoa- 
nut thickly over the top of it ; then lay on another cake, and 
proceed as before. 

* Custard Filling. 

Boil half a pint of milk, stir in it a tablespoonful of corn- 
starch mixed to a paste with a little cold milk and the yolk of 



IClNGa, &e. 259 

on.! egg ; add sugar to your taste ; boil throe minutes, then add 
the juice of half a lemon. When cold, spread between the 
cakes. 

* Caramels. 

Half a pound of good brown sugar, half a cake of sweet cho- 
yolate grated, and a pint of cream ; put all together in a stew- 
pan and boil about half an hour ; try it by dropping from a 
spoon into cold water ; when it is crisp it is done. Pour it into 
buttered tin pans, and when nearly cold mark it into small 
squares with a knife. 

* Taffy. 
Two cups of brown sugar, one of vinegar, butter the size of 
an egg ; boil all together until thick ; try it by dropping some 
from the spoon in very cold water j if it crisps immediately, it is 
done ; pour it out into buttered tins ; mark with the back of a 
knife in little squares, when half cold. 

Hoarhound Candy. 

Pour a pint of boiling water on as much hoarhound as it will 
cover, steep it on the back of the range for a couple of hours ; 
then strain it and put the same water on a fresh supply of hoar- 
hound, and steep it as before ; add enough boiling water to 
n-easure the pint when done ; strain it, and when cold add the 
Deaten white of an egg and two pounds of sugar ; boil it, take 
off the scum and continue to boil it slowly until thick ; try it by 
dropping from a spoon into cold water ; when it hardens quickly 
and crisp it is done ; pour it into buttered tins ; when half cold 
mark it with the back of a knife into little squares. When en- 
tirely cold break it up and put it in jars. It is useful in colda 
and sore throats. 

* Vanilla Ice-cream. 

One pint of milk to three of cream, two beaten eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of corn-starch, two coffeecups of powdered sugar, and 
the inside of a vanilla bean ; mix the milk, corn-starch, eggs, 



260 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCB. 

sugar and vanilla together j let them just come to a boil ; then 
take them from the fire ; add the cream ; if not very sweet, 
more sugar. When cold, freeze, 

* Orange Ice-cream. 

Dissolve a quarter of a box of gelatine in a pint of milk bj 
setting it in a vessel of hot water ; rub the rind of an orange in 
a little of the sugar you sweeten the cream with, and put a little 
grated peel in the milkj squeeze the juice from a fine large 
orange and stir in the cream. When the gelatine is entirely 
dissolved, stir in it two and a half cofiFeecups of powdered sugar, 
and add all to the cream ; stir until cold, and freeze. 

* Coffee Ice-cream. 

Three pints of cream to one of milk, a cofieecup of freshly- 
roasted coffee, two eggs beaten, a teaspoonful of cornstarch and 
two large coffeeoups of powdered sugar; grind the cofl'ee and 
make it in a French coffeepot without boiling, getting all its 
strength into one full coffeecup of black coffee, putting it twice 
through the filterer ; mix the corn-starch, eggs, milk, sugar and 
coffee all together ; bring to a boil on the fire ; then remove 
quickly, stir in the cream, and when cold put it in the freezer. 
All these preparations for ice-cream must be stirred constantly 
whilst coming to the boil. 

* Chocolate Ice-cream. 

To three pints of cream take one of new milk, two eggs, a tea- 
cupful of grated chocolate, two coffeecups of powdered sugar, a 
teaspoonful of corn-starch, and one of extract of vanilla; beat 
the eggs, stir them in the milk, add the corn-starch and sugar ; 
let them come to a boil, take them quickly from the fire ; dissolve 
the chocolate in a little milk over the fire, stir it all the time ; 
when perfectly smooth, mix it with the milk and eggs, then add 
the cream and vanilla ; if not sweet enough, more sugar. When 
cold, put it in the freezer. 



wmosi. *c. 261 

•Orange Water-ice. 

The juice of six and the grated rind of three hne oranges, a 
pint of sifted sugar, the juice of two large fresh lemons, and a 
pint of cold water; stir together until the sugar is all dissolved, 
and freeze, 

* Peach Ice Cream. 
Peel and cut up half a peck of ripe peaches, mash them with 
a potato-masher, put to them a large coffeecup of powdered 
sugar; heat up two eggs and put them in a pint of new milk, 
with a teaspoonful of corn-starch and tsro coffeectips of powdered 
sugar ; hring to a boil ; stir in this three pints of cream, and 
add the peaches ; stir all well together j if not very sweet, add 
lUDie sugar, and freeze. 



FRUITS FOR WINTER DESSERT. 



* Centre Piece for Dinner-table. 

A very pretty centre piece may be made for the dinner-table 
in winter-time of oranges, bananas, pears, lady-apples and bell- 
flowers or other kinds of apple, and white and purple grapes, 
interspersed with leaves from a lemon-tree or ivy leaves. Put 
them in a tall, deep glass dish, with a narrow high vase in the 
centre, heap the fruit round the base of the vase so as to hide it 
completely, and fill the vase with flowers and drooping vines. 
This does very well when you have not an 6pergne that comes for 
the purpose to arrange them in. 

* Ambrosia. 

Peel and slice a dozen tart oranges, and grate a cocoanufc; put 
a layer of oranges in the bottom of a large glass dish, sprinkle 
thickly with powdered sugar, then scatter a layer of cocoanut, 
another layer of oranges, sugar and cocoanut until your dish is 
full; cover the top with cocoanut, ornament the dish by putting 
leaf-shaped sections of the peel round the edge; put them on 
before the last layer of the orange so that they will be held in- 
their place, and let them curl over the side of the dish ; sprin- 
kle a little sugar over the top layer of cocoanut. 

Dried Fruits. 
Dates, figs and raisins may be mixed in the same dish with 
candied fruits from the confectioners and peach-figs of your own 
make. 

Nuts. 
English walnuts, almonds, pecan and hazel nuts, cream-nuts, 
American walnuts, shellbarks, boiled chestnuts. 

(262) 



BEVERAGES FOR THE TABLE. 



* Coffee. 
A coffeecup of unground coflFee will make a quart of coflFee; 
grind it, scald out the coffee-boiler, put in the coffee with the 
third part of an egg beaten up in cold water, shake it well 
through the grounds, add a pint of cold water, set it on the fire. 
When near boiling, pour in a quart of boiling water, stir it from 
the sides as it boils, let it boil gently for fifteen minutes, stir it 
from the sides, put in a tablespoonful of cold water, and set it on 
the back, of the range for five minutes. Scald out the'urn or 
coffee-pot, and pour the coffee carefully in it, and serve imme- 
diately. Nothing spoils more quickly by standing than coffee. 
It becomes flat and loses its aroma in a few minutes. Keep it 
covered whilst boiling. 

*Tea. 

No good tea can be made from water that has stood a long 
time in a tea-kettle and boiled two or three hours before it is 
wanted ; have it filled and boiled just as you want it, then scald 
out the tea-pot, put the tea in it, allowing, if black tea, two 
teaspoonsful for each person ; pour the boiling water on it, and 
let it stand about ten minutes, where it will not boil, turn it 
into the pot you send it to table in and serve. 

* Chocolate. 

A quarter of a pound of chocolate or half a cake will make a 
little more than a quart of chocolate. Mix it in a little more 
than half a pint of boiling water, stir it over the fire until dis- 
solved into a smooth paste ; then pour in gradually nearly a 
quart of milk or quite a quart, unless yon like it very strong ; boil 
it five minutes and serve. Have the chocolate-pot very hot 'be- 
fore you turn it in. 

(263) 



264 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Currant Shrub. 

Mash the currants in a preserving-kettle, make them boiling 
lidt, strain them through a cloth or jelly-bag, squeeze all the 
juice from them; to four quarts of juice add a quart of water, 
then to every quart of the mixture add a pound and a half of 
sifted sugar ; boil for ten minutes, skimming it well ; then take 
it from the fire and add a wine-glass of good brandy to every pint 
of juice. When cool, bottle and cork tightly, and keep it 
in a cool place. Put two or three tablespoonsful in a glass of 
ice- water. 

Currant Wine. 

Two gallons of currant-juice and one of water to each gallon 
of the mixture, add three pounds of white sugar, fill the vessel, 
leaving out a pitcherful of the juice to keep it full during fer- 
mentation. Stir the juice until the sugar is dissolved, then put 
it in a clean cask or demijohn, keep in the cellar or a cool place. 
As it works out, fill again from what you reserved. When fer- 
mentation ceases, close up tightly. You may rack it off towards 
spring or let it stand for a year, then bottle and seal. If you 
make a large quantity, reserve a gallon for refilling. 

Raspberry Bounce. 

Bruise fine red raspberries, and strain through a jelly-bag or 
thick cloth, and put a pound of powdered loaf sugar to each 
quart of juice ; stir it until dissolved, cover it, and let it stand 
in a cool place for three days, stirring it up each day ; pour it 
off clear, and put two quarts of Sherry wine, or one of fine old 
brandy, to each quart of juice. It will be ready for use in a 
fortnight. 

Cherry Bounce. 

Put two quarts of wild cherries into a demijohn (do not take 
out the pits), pour on them a gallon of fine brandy and two 
pounds of powdered loaf sugar, shake it up every day for a week, 
when it is fit for use and will keep for years, the older the 
better and is an exeeJ'ent tonic for invalids. 



BEVERAGES Fhii THE TABLE. 265 

Lemonade in a Minute. 

Put two pounds of fine white sugar into a presorv ing-kettle 
with a pint of cold spring water. When the sugar is all dis- 
solved, set it over a moderate fire, beat half the white of an egg, 
and stir in before the sugar gets warm. When it boils, take off 
the scum, keep it boiling until no more scum rises and it is per- 
fectly clear; just before you take it from the fire, put in the 
peel of a lemon cut off very thin, then set it aside. When per- 
fectly cold, take out the lemon-peel, and add for each pint of 
syrup a quarter of an ounce of citric acid, mix it by degrees into 
the syrup, and bottle for use. A tablespoonful of this in a pint of 
iced water makes a very agreeable drink. 

To a pint of the above clarified syrup add a glass of Curajoa 
(before the lemon is put in it), and you have capillaire. 

* Raspberry Syrup. 

Put four pounds of loaf or sifted sugar into a preserving- 
kettle with a quart of cold water, bring it to a boil, skim it, and 
add one pound of raspberries and the same of currants, boil 
gently fifteen or twenty minutes, strain through a sieve. When 
cold, bottle it and keep in a cool place. A few tablespoonsful 
in a glass of ice-water makes a very pleasant drink. 

* Raspberry Vinegar. 

To two quarts of raspberries add one quart of good cider vine- 
gar, let it stand twenty-four hours, strain off, and add two more 
quarts of berries ; let it stand again twenty-four hours, strain off 
as before, and again add two more quarts of berries; let it stand 
twenty-four hours, strain off, and then for every pint of juice 
add a pound of white sugar, and boil half an hour ; bottle and 
keep in a cool place. 

* Blackberry Cordial. 

Bruise and squeeze the berries through a thick cloth, and for 
two quarts of juice, add one pound of loaf sugar, half an ounce 



2(i6 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

of nutmegs grated, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, and a 
quarter of an ounce of cloves and allspice mixed (being half a 
quarter of each). Boil all together for twenty minutes. When 
cold, add a pint of fourth-proof brandy and bottle. Excellent 
for diarrhoea. 

* Strawberry Syrap. 

Put the strawberries in an earthen pan, cover them with cold 
water, and mash them to a fine pulp with a potato- masher, then 
squeeze every bit of juice from them by straining them in a 
jelly-bag or thick cloth for the purpose. To every pint of juice 
add a pound of sifted sugar ; put all together over the. fire in a 
preserving-kettle, stir until the sugar is dissolved, then boil for 
fifteen minutes, strain it, and when cold, bottle it and seal and 
keep in a cool place. A few tablespoonsful in a glass of ice- 
water makes a pleasant drink. Pineapple may be prepared in 
the same way. Pare the fruit, take out the black specks, and 
slice and chop it before adding the water. 

* Eggnog. 
A quart of rich milk, six eggs beaten very light separately 
and then together, half a pint of Sherry wine and best French 
brandy mixed, and three heaping tablespoons of powdered sugar ; 
beat the eggs separately, then together, add the sugar, beat it 
well in, then add the wine and brandy and a little grated nutmeg, 
then stir in the milk. If not sweet enough, add more sugar. 

* A Cooling Drink. 

Pour three quarts of boiling water on an ounce of cream oi 
tartar, stir in it the juice of a fresh lemon, and the peel cut oif 
in very thin strips without a particle of pulp, sweeten to your 
taste with powdered sugar, stir all well together, then let it stand 
until cold and clear; pour off without disturbing the sediment 
at the bottom. A tumblerful iced is a pleasant and healthy 
beverage for a warm summer's day. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS 



Procure only fine fruit for preserving or canning. Before you 
commence, see that your jars are clean and in order, and that 
you have enough of them. Use a porcelain-lined kettle, and do 
not put more than six or eight pounds of fruit in it at a time. 
411 preserved fruit and jellies should stand at least twelve hours 
before closing the jars or tumblers ; if they are closed whilst 
they are hot, the syrup will be thin and watery ; but if left 
until the day after they are preserved, the juice will be rich and 
thick. Keep them in a cool, dry place, and if your covers are 
perfectly close and air-tight, they will neither mould nor fer- 
ment. It is neither the length of time they are cooked nor the 
amount of sufrar used in preserving that keeps the fruit, but 
simply protecting them from the air. The method is merely a 
ina*.ter of taste. Small fruits — as strawberries and raspberries — 
may be put in pint jars ; quart jars are better for larger fruit; 
tht fruit is apt to be broken in taking it from smaller jars. 

Jars of canned fruits should be closed and made air-tight as 
soon as they are filled, unless cooked in boiling water j in that 
case close them as soon as they are boiling hot. 

* To Preserve ftuinoes. 

Pare them very thin, cut them in half, take out all the hard 
core with a sharp knife, weigh the fruit, and to every pound 
allow a pound and a half of sifted sugar, and a pint of cold water; 
put the quinces into a preserving-kettle with the water, cover 
them closely, and let them simmer very gently until perfectly ten- 
der, but ni)t broken ; some ot the fruit will become tender much 
Booner than the ref^t. As they arc done, take each piece out 

(267) 



/b8 CO OEER Y FE OM EXPERIENCE. 

separately with a spoon, and lay on a dish to cool. Whe.^ all 
are out, strain the water through a thin cloth, put it back into 
the kettle, add the sugar. When it comes to a boil, lay in the 
quinces, boil them until clear, which will take from half to three- 
quarters of an hour, take them from the fire, fill the jars three 
parts full of the fruit, fill up with the syrup. After filling the 
jars, put the remainder of the syrup in moulds or bowls; do not 
cover them until next day. This will be a stifi' jelly when cold. 
In preserving quinces by this recipe, it is unnecessary to boil 
up the skins and seeds, which always make the fruit and jelly 
dark. 

* To Preserve Pears, 
Pare and cut the fruit in half, take out the core, weigh the 
fruit, and allow three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar to every 
pound of fruit; put the sugar into a preserving kettle with a 
small teacup of hot water under the sugar; set it on the back of 
the range or stove, stir it frequently until the sugar is all dis- 
solvedj|then lay in the pears, set them over the fire, and cook 
them father slow until perfectly clear ; set the ketfele off the fire, 
take out the fruit with a spoon, without any of the syrup, fill 
the jars three-quarters full, and set the syrup over the fire again, 
cut a fine large limon in slices, put it in the syrup, and boil for 
ten minutes; then lay a slice or two of lemon in each jar and 
fill up with syrup, let them stand until next day, then make 
them air-tight. This recipe is for ripe tender fruit ; if green 
or tough, you must boil it first in water, allowing enough 
to barely cover the fruit. When tender, take it out, lay it on a 
dish,, strain the water, put it back in the kettle, add the sugar, 
and when dissolved, lay in the fruit, and proceed as above. One 
lemon is sufficient for six or eight pounds of pears. 

* Raspberries. , 

Weigh the fruit, and if you wish a rich jellied preserve, allow 

a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit hut one, take that one 

pound, put it in your preserving-kettle, and mash it as fine as 

possib's; then strain it through a thick cloth or jelly-bag, squfse^- 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS. 269 

iiig out every drop of juice, set it aside, wash out the kettle and 
wipe it dry, return the juice to the kettle, and put the sugar in 
it. When the sugar is all dissolved, put in the fruit, and boil it 
quite fast for twenty minutes, skimming it well ; then fill your 
jars, and let them stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours, 
uncovered, then close them, making them air-tight, and set away. 
You may preserve strawberries in the same way, taking the juice 
of a quart of strawberries. 

* Cherries. 
For making a handsome preserve, take either morellas or fine 
large pie-cherries, take out the pits, saving all the juice, weigh 
them, allow pound for pound, put them with their juice into 
your preserving-kettle alternately with the sugar, set them back 
on the range or stove where they will not cook until the sugar is 
all dissolved, then bring them to a boil, and C(jok gently for half 
an hour or longer, if they are not clear; fill your jars, and set 
them in a cool place uncovered until next day, then close them 
up air-tight. The screw jars are the best to keep all kinds 
of fruit in, either preserved of canned. Take off the scum as it 
arises from the fruit whilst boiling. 

* Preserved Peaches. 
Pare and halve the peaches, taking out the stones, make a 
syrup of half a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, with a 
very little water, not more than half a teacupful ; put the peaches 
in, and boil them fifteen minutes, skimming them well, and when 
done, put them in air-tight jars and keep in a cool place- 
Yellow peaches are generally the finest flavored ; the white 
peaches the handsomest preserves. 

* To Preserve Peaches for Shells or Pies. 
Pare the fruit, cut in half and take out the stones ; for every 
pound of peaches allow half a pound of light-brown sugar, put 
them over the fire in the sugar without any water, stew them 
very gently for nearly an hour, or until perfectly clear, skimming 
them well; put them in large air-tight jars. They make a very 
nice pie, ox to be used on shells tV'ough the winter. 



•i'i coo KER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* Strawberries. 

Procure line large strawberries, and to each pound allow one 
pound of sifted sugar, put part of the sugar on a large dish j as 
you hull the berries, lay them on the sugar until it is covered, 
then scatter more sugar over them, hull more strawberries and 
put over the sugar ; continue until the berries are ready for the 
kettle ; be careful not to put more fruit on a dish than will bnil 
in your kettle ; allow about six pounds of fruit to one preserving- 
kettle. By the time the strawberries are hulled, there will be 
juice enough to preserve them in without adding any water, 
which spoils this delicate fruit. Put them over the fire in a 
preserving-kettle, and cook gently for twenty minutes, or until 
clear, skimming them well. When done, put them in screw 
jars, leaving the covers off until next day. 

* Spiced Peaches. 
Seven pounds of fruit pared and cut in half, three pounds of 
good brown sugar, a pint and a half of good cider vinegar, one 
ounce of whole cloves, and half an ounce of mace ; put the vine- 
gar, sugar and spice in your preserving-kettle, boil and skim, then 
lay in the fruit and cook it slowly for two hours. The yellow 
peaches are the best for this purpose. Put them in jars; when 
cold, cover them to be air-tight. Pears, plums and cherries may 
be prepared the same way. 

* Peach Figs. 
Pare the peaches and cut them in half, weigh them, and allow 
half a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit ; put them in the 
kettle alternately with the sugar, heat them gradually until the 
sugar is dissolved, then boil them until clear, take them oul with 
a perforated skimmer or a fork, lay them on dishes without any 
syrup, put them in the sun, and turn them frequently until dry, 
putting them on dry dishes if the syrup drains out of them. 
When SQ dry that you can handle them, pack them in drums or 
boxes, with layers of sifted sugar, beginning with the sugar and 
finishing with it. You may boil more peaches in the same syrup 
if you have enough left These are better than figs. 



FRESEBVmO AND CANNING FRUITS. 271 

* Raspberry Jam. 
Press the raspberries through a wire-sieve, measure the pulp, 
and to every pint put a pound of sugar, set all together over a 
tire in a preserving-kettle. When it begins to boil, skim it well, 
Doil twenty minutes, till your jelly tumblers, and let it stand in a 
cool place until next day. Cut white paper the size of the top 
of the tumbler, lay it on, and paste thick white paper over the 
top. 

* Brandied Peaches, No, 1. 

For this purpose the cling-stone white-heath peaches are the 
best. Pare the fruit, but do not cut them, as they are pre- 
served whole. Weigh the fruit, and to four pounds put four 
pounds of sugar and a pint of the best white French brandy. 
Make a syrup of the sugar and as little water as possible ; dis- 
solve it gradually on the back of the range. When the sugar 
is all dissolved, set it over the fire and bring it to a boil ; put in 
the fruit and boil it tive or six minutes ; take out the fruit with- 
out any of the syrup ; put it in the jars ; boil the syrup fifteen 
minutes longer or until it thickens ; then take it from the fire, 
add the brandy, pour over the peaches and seal or cover imme- 
diately. 

* Brandied Peaches, No. 2. 

Haifa pound of sugar for every one of fruit j pare the fruit, 
put it in a preserving-kettle, cover with water and simmer until 
soft ; take it out without any water, put it closely-p'acked in the 
jars, put the dry sugar on the top of the peaches, cover them 
with white French brandy, and seal up the jars immediately. 

Brandied Peaches, No. 3. 

Prepare the peaches as in No. 1 ; weigh them and allow a 
half pound of sugar to every pound of fruit; make a syrup of 
the sugar with cold water ; bring to a boil, put in a few of the 
peaches at a time and boil until tender; continue to do this 
until all but the last boiling ; turn out the syrup, keeping it for 
other purposes, and make a fresh one of half a pound of sugar 
to each pound of fruit, as before; put in the last of the fruit; 



272 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

when done, add the brandy, a quart of the best white French 
brandy to every six or seven pounds of fruit. After filling your 
jars, cover them with the brandied syr ip and close imme- 
diately. 

* Brandied Peaches, No. 4. 

Take white cling-stoned peaches ; pare them and lay thera 
whole in a stone jar — a layer of peaches and a layer of sugar, 
until the jar is full; cover with white French brandy; set the 
jar in a deep vessel of cold water, bring to a boil, and continue 
to boil the water round the jar for three or four hours, first 
tying the jar closely over the top with bladder; let it stand in 
the water until cold, then lift out the jar, wipe it dry and set it 
away for use. This is a fine recipe. 

* Quince Marmalade. 
Pare the fruit, core it, cut it in small pieces and weigh it; 
put it in a preserving-kettle and cover it with cold water ; set it 
over the fire and boil gently until quite tender, then add half a 
pound of sifted sugar to every pound of fruit, and boil until 
clear and quite thick ; put it in moulds or jars, lay a piece of 
fair letter-paper, cut to fit the inside, on the top of every mould, 
then paste up with thick white paper. This must not be done 
until the next day. 

* Feach Marmalade, Ifo. 1. 

Peel the peaches, cut them in half and take out the stones; 
weigh them and allow half their weight in sugar. Mash the 
peaches with a potato-masher, and put them with the sugar over 
a slow fire and cook them until perfectly smooth and clear. This 
will require three or four hours. Stir them frequently, and 
towards the last almost all the time. Blanch about one-third of 
the kernels and cook with the peaches. When the marmalade 
is done, put it in jars and let it stand until next day; then 
close them tightly. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS. 2Td 

Peach Marmalade, No. 3. 

Take ripe yellow peaches, pare and quarter them, allow half 
their weight in sugar; put them over the fire in a preserving- 
kettlo, with a pint of water for every ten pounds of fruit; when 
they commence to cook, mash them with a potato-masher ; cover 
and cook them until they are soft, then add the sugar and boil 
steadily for an hour, or they may be finished by putting them 
when soft into a stone jar, and set them in a boiler of water, 
which keep boiling for two or three hours, or until perfectly 
clear. 

* Marmalade. 
Half a peck of pippin apples, a quarter of a peck of pears, 
half a peck of peaches, a quarter peck of quinces, two quarts of 
water, and the peel of a large orange grated and added with the 
juice half an hour before the marmalade is done. Put the 
parings and cores of the quinces in the water and boil a short 
time, closely covered to prevent evaporation. Strain them out 
and put the water on the quinces and pears, all cut small ; boil 
them for one hour, then add the other fruit and five pounds of 
sugar, boil gently two hours, stirring often to prevent burning; 
add the juice and rind of the orange, and boil half an hour 
longer. 

* Preserved Tomatoes. 

Procure the little, pear-shaped yellow tomatoes, wash and wipe 
tl.em, weigh them and allow three-quarters of a pound of sifted 
sugar to every pound of tomatoes ; prick each one with a coarse 
needle in five or six places ; put the sugar over the fire in a pre- 
serving-kettle, with a teacup of boiling water to six pounds of 
sugar; stir it over a slow fire until all dissolved, then put in the 
tomatoes and cook them until clear ; when half done, add the 
juice and rind cut very thin of two large fresh lemons. When 
the fruit is clear, take it out with a perforated skimmer, put it 
in small jars two-thirds full; boil the syrup fast for six minutes 
more, then fill up the jars, and let them stand until next day; 
then cover e'osely ard keep in a cool place. 
18 



274 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Spiced Peaches (whole). 
Fourteen pounds of peaches, seven pounds of sifted sugar; 
pare the peaches, and put them in a preserving-kettle with water 
to cover them and simmer until soft; take them out with a per- 
forated skimmer and lay them on a sieve to drain. Throw away 
the water they were boiled in, and put the sugar into the kettle 
with a quart of good cider vinegar, an ounce of whole cloves, an 
ounce of cinnamon-stick, and three blades of mace ; boil all to- 
gether twenty minutes; put the peaches in the jars and pour 
over them the boiling syrup ; let them stand until next day, 
then drain off the syrup, boil it ten minutes, pour over the 
peaches and when cold, seal up. 

* Citron Melon. 

Pare off the hard green rind, and cut the melon in quarters 
and take out the seed, then cut it into squares or slices half an 
inch in thickness and weigh it. Allow a pound of sugar to every 
pound of citron, put the melon in a pan of cold water with a 
handful of salt for one hour, then wash it in clean fresh water, 
make a weak syrup of sugar (not what was weighed) and water, 
put the citron in it and boil ten minutes, then take out the 
citron, throw this syrup out, and make another with the sugar 
you weighed and a little cold water; put the citron in it, and 
boil until clear and tender, skimming it well, add to it the juice 
of two large lemons, being careful to pick out the seeds, pare 
the rind off thin with a sharp knife, boil with the citron about 
fifteen minutes before you take it off the fire. « When the melon 
is done, put it in small jars, a little peel in each one, let it stand 
in a cool place until next day, then close up the jars. 

Currant and Raspberry Jam. 
Pick the currants from their stems, and for seven pints of 
currants put ten of raspberries and twelve pints of sifted sugar ; 
put them together in a preserving-kettle, boil them an hour, then 
add the sugar, and boil three-quarters of an hour longer, stirring 
most of the timr to prevent their sticking and burning. When 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS. 275 

done, put in small jars or glasses, and let them stand until next 
day, then close them. 

* Blackberry Jam. 
Procure ripe blackberries, weigh them, and allow three-quar- 
ters of a pound of sugar for every pound of fruit. Put the 
berries in a preserving-kettle over the fire, mash them very fine 
with a potato-masher. When they begin to boil and are all 
mashed, put in the sugar and cook them half an hour. Do not 
seal up until next day. 

* To preserve Pineapple. 
Procure fine large pineapples, pare them, and pick out with a 
sharp-pointed knife all the black specks, which you will see after 
paring them ; weigh the fruit, and allow three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted sugar to every pound of fruit; pick the pine- 
apples to shreds with a fork, saving the juice as it drops; put 
all into the preserving-kettle together with the sugar, and boil 
gently for half an hour or longer until the fruit is perfectly clear; 
skimming well ; then fill your jars and set them in a cool place 
until next day ; then close them air-tight. 

* Green Gages. 

Wipe them, prick each one with a coarse carpet .eedle, weigh 
them, allow a pound of sugar for every pound of! iit, put them 
in the preserving-kettle alternate layers of sugar ind fruit, set 
them back where they will warm but not cook ui ,il the sugar is 
dissolved, which it will soon do if the fruit is all pricked with 
the needle. When this is accomplished, set them over the fire, 
boil and skim until the fruit is clear, which will be in about 
three-quarters of an hour; fill your jars with the fruit, three 
parts full, boil the syrup five minutes longer, unless it has already 
thickened sufliciently, then pour over to fill the jars, set away in 
a cool place until next day, then cover closely. 

* Compote of Oranges. 
Peel eight fine large tart oranges, remove all the pulp, and 
divide them at every separation without breaking the dividing 



276 CO OKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

ikin ; squeeze tLe juice from four more oranges, and put it in a 
preserving-kettle with three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, 
and the rind of one orange cut off in thin strips without a parti- 
cle of pulp ; lay the pieces of orange in the syrup, and boil them 
about six minutes, take them out, drain them on a sieve, boil the 
syrup until it begins to thicken, put the oranges into a deep 
dish, and pour the syrup over them. This is for filling a vol- 
au-vent. 

* Preserved Apple, 

Make a syrup of a quart of water and a pound of sifted sugar. 
Pare, core and cut in half ten large pippin or bellflower apples, 
bring the syrup to a boil, skim it, and lay the apples in and 
simmer them until clear; then add the juice of a lemon and the 
peel cut very thin without a particle of pulp, and a tumbler of 
Madeira wine ; give a boil up, take out the apples and lay them 
in the dish you will serve them in, pour the syrup over, and 
serve cold. 

* Coddled Apples. 

Pare and core juicy tart apples, — pippins are best — make a 
syrup of a pound of sugar to a quart of water, lay the apples in, 
and simmer until tender ; take them out, and lay them on a dish, 
and add the juice and rind (pared off very thin) of a large lemon, 
boil about three minutes, then strain the syrup through a fine 
cloth, put it back in the kettle, and add to it half a package of 
gelatine which has been soaked in a little cold water, give a boil 
np, and pour over the apples ; serve cold. If you wish more of 
the lemon taste, strain the syrup before you add the lemon, then 
put the juice and peel in with the gelatine, give a boil up, and 
pour over the apples. 

* Apple Jelly. 

Eigliteen large tart pippin apples; cut them m small pieces 
with their skins on, first washing them ; take out the seeds, and 
boil them in four quarts of water into a pulp ; strain first through 
a sieve, then through thin muslin. There will be about six 



PRESERVmG ^ND CANNINO FRUITS. 277 

pints of the juice ; boil this ten minutes, add five pounds of loaf 
or sifted sugar; boil three-quarters of an hour, put in bowls or 
glasses. This quantity makes about twelve glasses. Do not 
paste them up until next day. 

• Currant Jelly. 

Pick the currants when fully ripe on a dry day, strip them 
from their stems, and put them over the fire in a large kettle. 
When they commence to cook, mash them with a potato-masher ; 
when broken and boiling hot, put them a few at a time into a 
jelly-bag or thick cloth, squeeze out all the juice, and to every 
pint allow a pound of sifted sugar ; put the juice over the fire in 
a preserving-kettle, let it come to a boil, skim it well, put in the 
sugar, stir uatil dissolved, then lift it from the fire and fill your 
glasses. Paste up next day with letter-paper, lay a piece on top 
of the jelly to fit inside the glass before you cover and paste. 

* Blackberry Jelly. 

Mash the berries, squeeze the juice from them through a 
cloth or jelly-bag, and for every pint add a pound of sifted 
sugar; put all together over the fire, and boil twenty minutes, 
skimming well ; fill your glasses, set away until next day, then 
cover and paste up. Easpberry-jelly is made in the same way. 

Easpberry and Currant Jelly. 
Pick the currants from theii: stems, and put them over the 
fire in a preserving-kettle until broken and boiling hot, squeeze 
them through a jelly-bag or thick cloth. Mash the raspberries 
in an earthen pan with a potato-masher, and squeeze them the 
same as the currants; then for every pint of currant-juice put 
two of raspberry and a pound of sugar to every pint of the mix- 
ture ; put the juice and sugar over the fire in a preserving-kettle, 
and boil twenty minutes, skimming well; put it in glasses, let it 
Stand until next day in a cool place, then seal up. 



278 COOKERY FROM ESPERIENCE. 

* Tomato Butter. 

To ten pounds of fine ripe tomatoes, put five pounds of good 
brown sugar, a pint of cider-vinegar, a tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, one of allspice and cloves mixed, and boil gentlj for three 
or four hours. Skin the tomatoes, and cut out the groen core, 

* Spiced Cantelope. 

Take cantelopes fit for the table, cut them in half, scrape out 
all the seeds, slice and pare them, put them in an earthen pan, 
and cover them with good cider-vinegar; let them stand twenty- 
four hours, then strain off the juice and vinegar, measure one 
quart of juice for each preserving-kettle of fruit that you may 
have, and to every quart add three pounds of light-brown sugar, 
half an ounce of cloves, the same of cinnamon in sticks, and 
half an ounce of blades of mace; put the vinegar and spice 
over the fire with the melon and boil fifteen minutes; take 
out the melon and lay it in jars three parts full ; boil the syrup 
fifteen minutes more and pour over hot. When cold, close the 
jars. This is very nice. 

To Stew Pears for Winter use. 

Pare and cut them in half, take out the cores ; put them in a 
large kettle, pour on them cold water, not quite covering them, 
and let them boil until very tender ; then put on them half their 
weight in light brown sugar and a teacup of molasses to every 
ten pounds of fruit ; cook them several hours, until the syrup is 
rich and thick. Put them in large jars, and when entirely 
cold, cover closely. These are very good on pie-crust, or for 
luncheon. 

* Fox-grape Jelly. 

Fill a kettle with the grapes picked from their stems, put on 
them a pint of water, and boil them until the skins burst; then 
mash them, strain them through a sieve, and to every pint 
of juice allow a pound of sifted sugar; boil together half an 
hour, put the jelly into glasses, and next day cover closely. You 
may use either green or ripe fox-grapes. 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS. 279 

* Grapes for Winter Pies. 

After the first frost, pick the wild grapes, either fox-grapes or 
the little winter-grapes, pick them from their stems, and put 
them in a large stone jar, putting a thick layer of grapes and 
sprinkling plentifully with good brown sugar, until the jar is 
filled ; then cover them with boiling molasses, and tie them over 
the top with a paper cover ; set them on the top of the range or 
stove in a pan of boiling water for several days. Small blue 
plums may be prepared in the same way, and make very good 
winter pies. 

* Grape Jam. 

Pick ripe fox-grapes from their stems, slip them from their 
skins, put the pulp in a kettle with a teacup of water, and boil, 
them until the seeds separate from the pulp ; strain them 
through a sieve to remove the seeds ; allow a pound of sugar to 
every pint of pulp, put them into the kettle with the sugar and 
half the skins ; boil them until the skins are tender, or about 
three-quarters of an hour; put it in forms, bowls or glasses. 
When firm and cold, seal up. 

Candied Orange-peel. 

Peel the oranges with a sharp knife without any of the white 
pulp ; put the peel over the fire in a preserving-kettle, cover it 
with boiling water, simmer ten minutes and change the water ; 
simmer again, and again change the water, and boil until the 
peel is tender. Make a syrup of two pounds of sifted sugar and 
a pint of cold water ; when the sugar is dissolved, set it over a 
moderate fire ; when it boils, skim it, and keep boiling until no 
more scum arises ; drain the orange-peel, and put it in an 
earthen pan; pour the syrup boiling hot over the peel, and let 
it stand two days ; then drain ofi' the syrup, put it in the kettlo 
with a handful more sugar; bring it to a boil, and again pour it 
over the peel, and let it lie two days more. Make a fresh syrup, 
the same as the first ; boil it until, when you dip a perforated 
skimmer in it and blow through the holes, a bul ble will form on 



280 COOKERY FROM EXPERIEl CE. 

the other side of the skimmer; then drain the peel from the 
first syrup, piit it into the boiling syrup, and boil it, stirring all 
the time until the sugar is becoming white ; then take out the 
peel with a fork, drain it on a sieve, and dry it in a cool oven or 
in the sun. When perfectly dry, pack it in jars. It will keep 
for years. Lemon-peel is candied in the same way. This is 
used in fruit-cake, gingerbread, and mince-meat. 

* Crab Apples. 

Wash, wipe and weigh them ; allow a pound of sugar for 
every pound of apples. Put them in a preserving-kettle with 
cold water to cover them; simmer until tender; then add the 
sugar and boil them until perfectly clear; put them in small 
-jars; set by until next day in a cool place, and then seal up. 

* Canned Peaches. 

Pare the fruit, cut it in half and take out the stones ; make a 
syrup of a quarter of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit, 
and cold water to make a syrup; put the peaches in, a few at a 
time; heat them boiling hot all through, have the jars hot, put 
in the peaches and seal up immediately. It is better to do only 
as many at a time as will fill a quart jar; seal up and commence 
another. If you do this, allow half a pound of sugar to each 
quart jar, and a little experience will soon teach you how much 
water to put to the sugar ; there should be just enough to make 
sufficient syrup to fill the jar up to the lid; a pint is generally 
the right quantity. 

* Canned Fears. 

Pare them, cut them in half and take out the cores; lay them 
in the jars to look nicely, until nearly full; mix in a basin a 
teacup of sugar and nearly a pint of cold water until the sugar is 
dissolved (sifted sugar) ; then pour it over the pears. Do this 
quantity for each quart jar. Put a thin board in the bottom of 
a large tin boiler, set the jars on the board, and fill up thp 
boiler with cold water ; set over a g )od fire, and let it come to a 



PRESERVING AND VANNING FRUITS. 281 

boil. Ouatinue to boil them hard until the pears are as hot as 
the water all through ; close them up and let them stand until 
nearly cold, then remove them from the water, wipe them and 
set them away. 

You may can any other fruit in the same ^)ay, but pears are 
best done in this manner. 

* Canned Pineapple. 
Select fine ripe fruit, pare them and cut out the black specks, 
slice them half an inch in thickness, cut each slice in three or 
four pieces, lay them closely in the jars, filling them up within 
an inch of the top; make a cold syrup of a teacup of sugar and 
nearly a pint of water to each quart jar of the fruit; fill the jars 
with this up to the top; place the jars side by side in a large 
boiler in which you have laid a thin piece of board for the jars 
to stand upon, fill with cold water up to the necks of the jars, 
and put the boiler over the fire; keep them boiling hard for 
three hours, or until the jars are boiling hot all through ; then 
set the boiler off the fire and screw up the jars perfectly air- 
tight and let them stand in the water until almost cold, then 
take them out, giving every lid another screw, and wipe them 
and set away. If the syrup does not quite fill the jars, add a 
little more cold water before they commence to boil. 

Fmit without Sugar for Winter Pies. 

For cherries, gooseberries, currants, blackberries, prunes and 
other small fruit. Put the fruit closely packed into wide- 
mouthed bottlea; take only such as are whole and without 
blemish, and shake them down closely j have new corks to fit 
loosely, put the corks in the bottles, and set the bottles in an 
oven almost cold for five hours — the more slowly they are done 
the better. When the fruit begins to shrink in the bottlesi and 
is thoroughly warmed through, take them out, and before chey 
are cold, drive the corks in tightly. Set them in a racl with 
the corks down, and they will keep for years. 



282 COOKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

* To Can Blackberries. 

Weigh the fruit, put them over the fire with half their weight 
iu sugar ; boil fifteen minutes, put them in hot jars aud seal up 
immediately. Whortleberries and other small fiiit are prepared 
in the same manner. 

Clarified Sugar. 
Put two pounds of loaf sugar in a preserving-kettle with a 
pint of cold spring-water. When the sugar is dissolved set it 
over the fire; beat, half the white of an egg and stir it in the 
sugar before it gets warm. Watch it closely to prevent burning, 
stirring it very often. When it boils, skim it, and boil it until 
no more scum rises and it is perfectly clear; then strain it 
through a napkin or linen cloth, and bottle it. It will keep for 
months, and is valuable for many purposes. A tablespoonful in 
a glass of ice-water, with a few drops of orange-flower water, is 
a refreshing drink. Keep a bottle of it in the sideboard. 

* Canned Tomatoes. 
Pour boiling water on them to loosen the skins ; let them lie 
a few minutes, then drain off' the water, peel them, cut out the 
green cores, squeeze the juice from them and let them lie on a 
sieve to drain, until all are peeled ; put them over the fire for 
about ten minutes, or until they are thoroughly hot; heat the 
cans, fill them quite full, and seal up each one as you fill it. 

Canned Corn. 

Select sugar-corn that is well filled, but not old ; cut it from 
the cob ; put it over the fire in a preserving-kettle ; let it come 
to a boil. Have your cans very hot, till them, and seal each one 
as you fill it. If the corn is dry, put a very little water to each 
kettleful — about a coffeecupful. 

Baked Apples. 

Pare and core enough fine tart apples to cover closely the 
bottom of a baking-pan, whieV. has a tight-fitting lid ; stick sia 



PRESERVING AND CANNING FRUITS. 283 

cloves rfl und the sides of each apple, and place them as close as 
possible in the pan. Dissolve for a dozen apples a pound of 
white sugar in a pint of cold water j add to it half a pint of good 
cooking wine. When "the sugar is dissolved, pour the cold syrup- 
-^ver the apples, cover them tightly, and bake them in a very 
dow oveL for four or five hours. 

Saked Fears. 

Pare, cut in half and core a dozen large baking pears; place 
them close together in a baking-pan with a tight-fitting lid — the 
brighter the pan, if tin, the better; strew over them the rind 
of a lemon, cut off in very thin strips without a particle of the 
pulp. Make a syrup of a pound of white sugar, a pint and a 
half of cold water and the juice of the lemon ; stir it until the 
sugar is dissolved, then pour it over the pears ; cover them 
tightly, and bake them in a very slow oven for six hours. 

Applti Sago Jelly. 

Prepare as for applesauce eight large tart apples ; stew them 
fine in as little water as possible and press them through a cul- 
lender. Whilst the apples are being prepared and stewed, have 
soaking a teacup of sago ; put the sago with the water it was 
soaked in into the apples, and let all stew together for an hour, 
or until the sago is all dissolved ; then add sugar to your taste 
and a large wine-glass of wine; pour into a form, and when 
cold, eat with cream. 

* Cranberry Sauce. 

Pick over and wash the cranberries ; put them over the fire 
with a pint of water to every quart of berries. When they com- 
mence boiling, stir them frequently. When broken and tender, 
take them from the fire and mash them to a pulp with a potato- 
masher; then add a pound and two ounces of sugar to every 
quart of berries; put them back on the fire and stir them all 
the time ; cook rapidly for ten minutes ; pour into moulds, which 
have been wet with celd water and dnined, aind set in a cool 



284 COOKER Y FB OM EXPERIENCE. 

place. This should be made the day before it is wanted, if 
you wish it to turn out whole. If you prefer a jelly, rub the 
Bauce through a wire sieve, to take out the skins, before you 
put it in the forms. 

* Apple Sauce. 

Pare, core and quarter nice juicy tart apples; stew them 
until tender in as little water as possible ; when done, rub them 
through a cullender, sweeten to your taste, and if you prefer a 
flavor, grate in half the peel of a lemon, or add a little cinnamon 
and nutmeg. 

* To prepare Dried Peaches. 

Wash them very clean, and put them in a deep vessel with 
tepid water to cover the top at least three inches. Do this 
early iii the morning ; cover them and set them aside until next 
morning, or for twenty-four hours; then put them over a slow 
fire in the water they were soaked in. When they commence to 
cook, set them where they will simmer slowly ; keep them closely 
covered, and cook them in this way for five or six hours. When 
very soft, add light brown sugar to your taste (and they take a 
great deal to make them good) and half a teacup of the best 
syrup molasses to two pounds or quarts of fruit; leave them un- 
covered and boil a little faster until a rich syrup is around them. 
Take them from the fire, and if you intend to make pies of them, 
add half the rind of an orange grated and the juice from two 
fine oranges. If you are going to use" them with meat, put no 
flavor in them. 

* To Stew Prunes. 

Soak them for several hours until perfe tlysoft; put them 
over the fire in the water they were soaked in, adding plenty of 
sugar ; simmer for about ten minutes. Take them out with a 
perforated skimmer; boil the syrup until quite rich, and pour 
over. 

* Dried Apples. 

Wash them clean and put them in water to cover them ; soak 
them all night; put them on to stew in the water they were 



PRESERrmO AND CANNING FRUITS. 285 

soaked in ; simmer them slowly for several hours. When they 
will mash they are done; grate the peel of a lemon, add it with 
the juice and sugar to your taste. Give one boil up, and pour 
them out. 

* Prunellas. 
Pull them apart, wash them clean, cover with cold water, put 
more than their weight in light brown or white sugar, and stew 
(hem in a covered vessel until they are tender. 



PICKLES, 



* Pickled Cucumbers 
One hundred small cucumbers fresh from the vices ; wash 
the sand from them and wipe them dry, put them in a large 
stone jar; put on the top 6f them a pint of salt, and a piece of 
alum the size of a nutmeg, and cover them with boiling waier ; 
tie thieif paper over the jar or place on it a close-fitting lid, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours ; take out the cucumbers, wipe 
them dry, place them in a clean dry jar, in layers alternately 
with the following spices : One tablespoonful of mustard-seed, 
one of whole allspice, one root of horseradish grated or cut in 
thin strips, a few small red peppers, and pour over them suflS- 
cient vinegar to fill the jars, which must only be two-thirds full 
of cucumbers. When cold, cover them closely; they will keep 
for years. Pour the vinegar over the pickles boiling hot. 

* Pickled Cucumbers, No. 2. 

Wash thom to remove the sand, make a strong pickle of salt 
and water to bear an egg, lay the cucumbers in it for two weeks, 
then place them in stone jars, boil the brine, and pour over them 
every morning for nine days, adding more brine if it does not 
cover them ; then remove the pickles from the brine, and throw 
them into cold water for twenty-four hours. Take .them from 
the brine, and lay them in a bell-metal kettle alternately with 
green cabbage-leaves, a layer of each, cover them with cold 
water, and put them on the back of the range or stove where 
they will become hot, but not cook, until they are a nice green, 
then take them oflf, wipe them dry, and place them in jars alter- 
nately in layers with the following spices : Green ginger-root 
sliced, a clove of garlic and a blade of mace to each layer; bo'l 

(287) 



288 COO KEB T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

cider-vinegar enough to cover them in which you have put whole 
cloves, allspice, and a lump of alum half the size of a nutmeg to 
every jar; cover the pickles until cold, then tie them up; in 
two weeks they will be fit for use. 

* A Chow-chow of Pickles. 

One gallon of vinegar, half a pound of English mu»,ard, a 
quarter of a pound of powdered ginger, the same of white 
pepper, a quarter of a pound of curry powder, and two ounces 
of turmeric ; two heads of cauliflower, fifty small-sized cucum- 
bers, one quart of nasturtiums, one quart of very young string- 
beans, one quart of little white button-onions ; separate the cauli- 
flower into little sprigs, pour boiling water over it; in another 
vessel scald the onions in the same way, let them stand until 
cool, then drain the water off', and sprinkle over them half a 
pint of salt, and let them lie until next day. Wash the cucum- 
bers to remove the sand, wipe them dry, and put them in a jar ; 
put on the top of them half a pint of salt and a piece of alum 
the size of half a nutmeg ; cover them with boiling water, and 
let them stand twenty-four hours ; then take them out, wipe 
them dry, and they are ready to add to the other articles. 
Take enough of the vinegar to mix the spices to a paste ; mix 
the mustard separately, stir all bu* the mustard into the vinegar, 
put it over the fire and bring to a boil, stirring all the time ; 
then put all the pickles into the vinegar, give a boil up, take 
them from the flre, stir in the mustard, let all stand uncovered 
for twelve hours, then bottle and cork tightly. 

Indian Mangoes. 
Take small, smooth-skinned green cantelopes, not larger than 
a turkey-egg or an orange, cut a round piece out of one side, scoop 
out all the seeds, reserve the piece you cut out, for a lid, parboil 
the melons in a brine that will bear an egg, until a little tender, 
dry them, fill them with very finely chopped white cabbage sea- 
soned with mustard-seed, pepper, salt, and grated horseradish ; 
put on the cover, tie them round with soft cord, and put them 
in vinegar with exactly the same spices as for chow-chow ; pour 
it over them boiling hot. These will keep for years. 



PICKLES. 289 

* Spanish Pickles. 

Take three dozen large and full-grown cucumbers, four large 
green peppers, half a peck of small white onions, half a peck of 
green tomatoes. Cut the cucumbers, peppers and tomatoes in 
pieces, sprinkle over them a pint of salt, and let them stand all 
night. Next morning drain them well, ai d add to them an 
ounce of mace, one of long white peppers, the same of white 
mustard-seed, half an ounce of cloves, half an ounce of celery- 
seed, an ounce of turmeric, three tablespoonsful of English mus- 
tard dry, three-quarters of a pound of good brown sugar, and 
one root of horseradish cut in small pieces ; cover them with 
good cider-vinegar, and boil half an hour ; put in stone or glass 
jars. When cold, cover closely. 

* Mixed Pickles. 

Chop a gallon of green tomatoes, sprinkle over them half a 
pint of salt, and let them stand all night. In the morning 
drain off the water, and add to them six onions sliced, six pep- 
pers chopped, cabbage cut coarsely and then chopped (half a 
head of cabbage), half a pint of grated horseradish, the same 
of mustard-seed, one tablespoonful of ground cloves, one of black 
pepper, two of dry mustard. Mix all well together, pack in jars 
three parts full, and fill up with good cider-vinegar. 

Pickled Cauliflower. 

Pull the cauliflowers to pieces, leaving out all the stalk and 
leaves, put them in a kettle with water to cover them, and throw 
in a quarter of a pound of salt to every quart of water, let it heat 
gradually. When it boils, take out the cauliflower with a perforated 
skimmer, and spread it on a cloth near the fire for twenty-four 
hours at least. When quite dry, put the sprigs piece by piece 
into glass jars, and cover them with a pickle made by infusing 
three ounces of curry powder for three days to every quart of 
Tinegar, or boil the vinegar with the curry powder in it and 
pour over hot. 
19 



290 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

To Pickle Onions. 

Take the small round white onions, peel off their skins, throw 
them in a kettle of boiling water over the fire, put in at a time 
as many as will cover the top. As soon as they look clear, take 
them out with a perforated skimmer, and lay them on a suit 
towel folded double. When all are done and quite dry, put them 
into jars. Put vinegar sufficient for your onions over the fire in 
a kettle with the following spices : one ounce of horseradish 
the same of allspice whole, same of whole black pepper, the same 
of salt, to every quart of vinegar; let it come to a boil, and pour 
hot over the onions; Fill the jars only three parts full of 
onions. 

* Yellow Pickled Cucumbers. 

Take half-grown cucumbers, wash them to remove the sand, 
put them in jars holding about a gallon, and to each jar allow » 
pint of salt and a piece of alum the size of a nutmeg; put the 
salt and alum on the top of the pickles after the jars are filled, 
pour on them boiling water to cover them, cover them tightly, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours; then take out the cucum- 
bers and wipe them dry, cut them down the middle lengthwise 
in four quarters, cut the quarters in half across the middle, and 
put them in jars three parts full. Make a pickle as follows : 
put in a gallon of vinegar, two ounces of turmeric, half a pound 
of English mustard, a quarter of a pound of ginger, a quarter of 
a pound of white pepper, the same of curry powder, three blades 
of mace, half an ounce of celery-seed, and two ounces of good 
brown sugar. Mix all the spices to a paste with cold vinegar 
from the gallon, stir all together in the vinegar, bring to a boil, 
and pour hot over the pickles, filling the jars. When cold, 
cover tightly. 

Shakers' Pickles. 

Take half grown cucumbers fresh from the vines; wash the 
sand from them and pack them in jars. Make a pickle of salt 
and water strong enough to bear an egg ; put a piece of alum in 
it, in the proportion of a piece as large as a nutmeg to a gallon 



PICKLES. 291 

of pickle ; boil and skim it, and pour hot over the pickles ; let 
It remain until cool ; pour it off. IBoil as much vinegar as will 
cover the pickles, with spices to taste ; pour it over the pickles 
hot ; put in the vinegar the same proportion of alum as you put 
in the brine. In two days the pickles will be fit to eat, and will 
keep for ten years. 

* Pickled Walnuts. 

Take the walnuts about midsummer, when a pin will g- 
through them easily. Make a pickle strong enough to bear an 
egg ; cover the walnuts with the pickle and tie them over with 
thick paper very closely. Let them lie a fortnight, changing 
the pickle twice in that time for fresh. Take them out and by 
them in vinegar for a month ; be careful to exclude the air. 
Take a gallon of good cider-vinegar and put into it one ounce of 
whole pepper, the same of cloves, half an ounce of mace and 
the same of nutmeg ; bruise them a little, and when the vinegar 
is near boiling, throw the walnuts into it and let them stand 
until nearly cold, closely covered. Put the walnuts in jars, 
sprinkle a little mustard-seed over the top of them and cover 
with the vinegar. They will soon be fit for use, but age im 
proves them. English walnuts or butternuts are the best kinds 
for this purpose. 

* Pickled Walnuts, Wo. 2. 

Make a brine of salt and water in the proportion of a quarter 
of a pound of salt to a quart of water; run a larding-needle 
through the walnuts in half-a-dozen places ; this allows the 
pickle to penetrate, and they will be ready for use much sooner. 
Let them stand in the brine for one week ; take them out, drain 
them. Make a fresh brine of the same proportions, put the 
walnuts in it and set them over the fire; give them a gentle 
simmer. When hot all through, lay them on a sieve to drain, 
and let them stand in the air until they turn black. This will 
take a couple of days. Then put them in stone or glass jars; 
fill them only three parts full of the walnuts, and fill them up 
with the following pickle : To each quart of best cider-vinegar 



292 COOKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

put two lunces of black pepper, one of ginger, same of salt, 
half an ounce of allspice and half a drachm of cayenne pepper. 
Put all in the vinegar and set over the fire, bring to a boil and 
pour boiling hot over the walnuts ; cover them closely, tie down 
tightly, and they will keep for years and improve with age. 

* Large Cucumbers. 

Wash them to remove the sand, wipe them dry, put them in 
jars, and for one hundred cucumbers allow a pint of salt and a 
piece of alum the size of a nutmeg. Put the salt and alum oh 
the top of the cucumbers, and pour over them boiling water to 
cover at least two inches over the top. Let them stand twenty- 
four hours ; take them out, wipe them dry, cut in four length- 
wise and each piece in half. Fill stone or glass jars three parts 
full of the pieces, and pour over them boiling hot the pickle 
with spices as for chow-chow or mangoes. Green peaches in 
this pickle are very much like Indian mangoes. 

* Cold Tomato-sauce. 

Peel half a peck of ripe tomatoes, cut them in small pieces (do 
not chop them, as it spoils them), drain them on a sieve for six 
hours ; then add to them one teacup of salt, one of sugar, one 
of mixed black and white mustard-seed, one gill of nasturtiums, 
a good-sized root of horseradish cut in strips or grated, two roots 
of celery, or two tablespoons of celery-seed, two tablespoons of 
"black pepper, one teaspoon of cinnamon, one of allspice, one of 
ground mace, and three pints of good sharp vinegar (cider) ; 
bottle, and it will be fit for use in a week, and will keep for 
years. 

* Cucumber-sauce. 

One peck of cucumbers fit for the tea-table ; pare off the rind 
and cut into dice ; slice and ring four large white onions ; 
sprinkle over all a pint of fine salt, and let them drain on 
a sieve for six or eight hours; then add to them one tablespoon 
of black pepper, a small teaspoon of cayenne, a few blades of 
mace —say, three or four, — one wine-glass of Madeira wine and 



PICKLES. 293 

two of good sweet oil. Put into jars and fill with sbaip cider- 
vinegar. Fill the jars only three parts full of the cucumber, 
and fill up with vinegar. 

* Higdon. 

Slice and chop four quarts of green tomatoes and six onicns, 
add one teacup of fine salt, and let them lie all night. In the 
morning remove the onions, and squeeze the tomatoes through a 
cloth strainer. Chop eight green peppers and add to the mix- 
ture four tablespoons of white mustard-seed, two tablespoons of 
ground cloves, two of allspice and a dessert-spoon of ground 
inustard. Scald two quarts of vinegar and pour over hot. 

Mixed Fickle. 

Collect together all kinds of small vegetables — green tomatoes 
when the size of a nutmeg, small white onions, nasturtiums, 
radish-pods, young string-beans, pumpkins the size of an egg 
cut into dice, and any other small vegetable. Put them into a 
strong brine for twenty-four hours; then wipe them and put 
them in jars with all kinds of spice, and pour cold vinegar over 
them. Cover closely. 

Bordeaux Sance. 

Two gallons of chopped cabbage, one of green tomatoes sliced, 
one dozen onions sliced, one ounce of turmeric, one ounce of 
whole allspice, the same of whole cloves, the same of ground 
ginger, half a pound of white mustard-seed, a gill and three- 
quarters of salt, one and three-quarter pounds of sugar, and a 
gallon of vinegar. Boil all together half an hour. 

Tomato-sauce. 

One peck of green tomatoes and a quarter of a peck of white 
onions sliced thin ; sprinkle them with salt in alternate layers. 
Let them stand all night, then strain oflF the water, cover them 
with vinegar, and simmer gently twenty minutes. Mix together 
half a teacup of ground mustard, a quarter of a pcund of mus- 



294 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

tard-seed) half a cup of browa sugar, a quarter of a cup of ground 
ginger, half a cup of good sweet oil, and anj other spices you 
please. Stir these into the pickles when half jooked. 

* Pickled Peppers. 

Cut the stems out in a round circle with a sharp knife, and 
lay them aside to replace; fill the peppers with a mixture of 
finely-cut and chopped cabbage, horseradish either cut in slips 
or grated, mustard-seed and salt. Wash the peppers in cold 
water before you fill them ; then fill, replace the piece you cut 
out tie them round with soft cord to keep the lids on, pack 
them in stone jars and fill up with cold sharp cider-jinegar. 
They will be ready for use in two weeks. 

Pickled Tomatoes. 

Take the little pear-shaped or round red tomatoes, wash them 
and wipe them very dry; put them in glass jars that can be 
made air-tight; to a quart of tomatoes put half a dozen blades of 
mace, a teaspoonful of whole cloves, the same of allspice, and a 
few little red peppers cut in rings ; fill the jars three parts full 
of the tomatoes, and fill up with good cider-vinegar, cold. Set 
them in a cool dark place, and in three weeks they are ready 
for use. Use no salt. This pickle is very nice for flavoring 
ragouts, hashes, &c., &c. 

* Green Tomato Pickle, 
A peck of green tomatoes, three dozen small white onions ; 
slice them, and put them in separate jars, sprinkling each layer 
profusely with salt; let them stand until next day, then drain 
oflfthc liquid, Whichis not to be used. Take one ounce of whole 
cloves, one ounce of allspice, one ounce and a half of .black 
pepper, one ounce of yellow mustard-seed ; put in a large kettle 
a layer of tomatoes and onions, sprinkle them with the spices, 
then put another layer of tomatoes and onions, more spices, and 
so on until all are in the kettle. Cover it with good cider- 
vinegar ; mix in a pa.<ite a quarter of a po tnd of English nius- 



PICKLES. 295 

tard with a little vinegar, thin it, and pour over the tomatoes, 
&c. ; stir it thoroughly through them, set the kettle on the back 
of the range, and let all simmer together for half an hour ; then 
put in jars. When cold, cover closely. 

* Nastartinms. 

Drop them as you gather them into ajar of vinegar; put a 
spoonful of salt in after the jar is filled. 

* Mushroom Catsnp. 

Put the mushrooms in a stone pot in layers, with salt sprin- 
kled over each layer, let them stand four days, then mash them, 
and to every quart add two-thirds of a teaspoonful of black 
pepper ; put them into a stone jar, and set it into a kettle of 
boiling water for three hours ; replenish the water round the 
jar, and keep up a fast boil ; then strain through a cloth, but 
do not squeeze it. Boil the juice half an hour longer, and let it 
stand until next day to settle ; then bottle, seal up, and keep in 
a cool place. 

* Walnut Catsup. 
Take young tender walnuts. If you cannot run a pin through 
them, they are too old. Prick each one through with a larding- 
needle, and lay them in a stone or earthenware pot or pan with 
a layer of salt and one of walnuts, allowing a handful of salt to 
every twenty-five walnuts; cover them with cold water, let them 
lie two weeks, stirring up every day; drain ofi' the water into a 
kettle, cover the walnuts with boiling vinegar, crush them to a 
pulp, and strain through a cullender into the kettle with the 
jnice; now measure it, and for every quart, add two ounces of 
white pepper, the same of ginger, an ounce of cloves, the same 
of grated nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a small onion 
minced very fine, and a teaspoonful of celery-seed tied in a little 
piece of thin muslin. Boil all together for one hour. When 
cold, bottle it, stirring it up as you 'ip it out. 



V,96 COOKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

Celery Soy. 

One peck of tomatoes chopped and cooked until soft ; then 
add a teacup of salt, half an one of white pepper, a teaspoon! ul 
of cayenne pepper, four onions chopped fine, half a pound of 
good brown sugar. Boil one hour, add a quart of sharp cider- 
vinegar, boil up again ; set it aside. When cold, add half a cuj 
of celery-seed crushed, and two tablespoons of ground cloves 
and allspice. Let it stand all night, press through a sieve, bottle 
and seal. 

* Tomato Catsup. 

Cut in pieces one bushel of ripo tomatoes, put them over the 
fire and boil them until very soft ; press them through a sieve 
to take out the skins and seeds, add to them half a gallon of 
good cider-vinegar, three half-pints of salt, two ounces of whole 
cloves, a stoall teaspoonful »f cayenne pepper, two tablespoon sful 
of black pepper, five heads of garlic skinned and separated^} mix 
all together and boil three hours, or until reduced one-half; then 
bottle without straining and seal up. 

This is more easily and quickly made if the tomatoes ure 
peeled before they arc cooked ; an onion sliced may be ust d in 
the place of the garlic. 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS AND SICK 



h 



* Oatmeal Ornel, 

For a thin gruel, mix a tablespoonful of oatmeal with 
three of cold water. Boil in a sauce-pan a pint of water or 
milk, pour it by degrees to the oatmeal you have mixed, return 
it to the sauce-pan and boil over the fire for five minutes, stir- 
ring all the time; season with a pinch of salt or sweeten to 
taste. If allowed, you may add a little wine or brandy and 
grated nutmeg. If you wish a thicker gruel, double the 
quantity of oatmeal. 

* Very fine Oatmeal Gruel. 

Boil a quart of water, stir in it two or three tablespoonsful of 
oatmeal, boil it until it thickens, stirring it all the time. When 
it is thick enough, pour it into a farina-kettle and let it boil on 
the range or stove for three or four hours. When done, take it 
from the fire and thin it^with rich milk until you can pour it 
through a tin s-trainer ; then strain it. Add to it a little salt 
and a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg ; or, if you prefer 
sugar, sweeten to the taste. 

* Indian Gruel. 
One heaping tablespoonful of Indian meal mixed in a little 
cold water. Boil a quart of water, pour on it, beat well and 
return it to the sauce-pan and boil fifteen or twenty minutes ; 
add a little salt, and sweeten to taste. 

* Sago Gruel. 
Soak two tablespoonsful of sago for an hour in cold water to 
cover it ; then adf" to it a pint more of cold water. Put it on a 

(297) 



298 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

slow fire in a sauce-pan and stir until the sago is d.ssolved and 
becomes thickened. If too thick, thin with boiling water. 
Piiur it out, sweeten to taste, and if allowed, add. a glass of wine 
and a little nutmeg. 

* Arrowroot- 
Mix two teaspoonsful of arrowroot in a little cold water. Boil 
a pint of milk or water, or half and half milk and water; stir in 
the arrowroot, and boil until thickened and clear; a few minutes 
will do it. Sweeten it to taste. 

* Oysters on Toast. 
Put six or eight oysters in a small stew-pan, without any juice, 
over the fire, with butter the size of a nutmeg and a little pepper 
and salt. Toast a slice of bread brown on both sides, butter it 
slightly, and when the oysters have boiled up, pour them over it 
and serve. 

* Squab Pigeons, Partridges or any Small Birds. 

Split them, flatten with a cleaver; broil them over a bright 
fire. Put them on a hot plate, butter them slightly and season 
with pepper and salt ; or you may lay them on a nice brown 
slice of toast slightly buttered. 

* Chicken Broth. 

Put half a chicken into a small stew-pan with a teaspoonful 
of rice which has been well washed, a little pepper and half a 
teaspoonful of salt. Cover with cold water and boil slowly until 
the meat falls from the bones; then take out the chicken, leav- 
ing the rice in, and serve. Keep the vessel closely covered and 
the chicken entirely covered with water. 

* Mutton Broth. 

Two pounds of lean mutton from the neck. Put it over the 
fire with cold water to cover it , add a teaspoonful of rice picked 
and washed, salt and pepper to taste. Boil slowly until the 
meat falls to pieces. Take out all the meat, and serve. 



FOOD FOR INVAL IDS AND SICK. 299 

* Sweetbreads. 

Blanch them in boiling water over the fire for five minutes; 
then wipe theiii dry, split them in half, and broil over a clear 
fire. Serve on a hot plate with a little butter on them, and 
pepper and salt. 

* Tamarind Water. 

Put a couple of teaspoonsful of tamarinds into half a pint of 
cold water, stir well, and let them settle. 

* Panada. 

Toast very brown a couple of stale rusk or rolls, or a slice of 
bread. Do not scorch them. Break them into a bowl; put 
over them a tablespoonful of sugar and a little grated nutmeg; 
pour on boiling water. If allowed, a glass of wine may be 
added. 

French Panada. 

Break a stale tea-biscuit or roll into a sauce-pan, pour over it 
boiling water to cover. Boil five minutes, stirring all the time; 
add a little salt and a small piece of butter. Mix well, and stir 
in it the yolk of an egg beaten in two tablespoonsful of milk. 
Boil up once and pour out. Eaten hot. 

* Cream Toast. 

Cut a slice of stale bread half an inch thick toast brown on 
both sides, lay it on a hot plate, sprinkle it with salt, and pour 
over it half a cup of rich cream, and serve quickly. 

To Soak Crackers. 
Put two large water-crackers in a bowl, pour on them boiling 
water, cover closely. Let them stand ten minutes ; take them 
out carefully, put them on a hot plate, and put on them a little 
butter and salt, or cream and salt, if butter is not allowed 
Serve quickly. 

Arrowroot Water. 
Wash two fine tart pippin apples very clean, cut them up very 
small, take out the cores, and put them into a nuart of cold 



300 COOKER Y FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

water over the fire and boil until the apples are quite soft, which 
will take an hour or more. Mix a teaspoonful of arrowroot in a 
little cold water very smooth, and stir in with the apple. Let 
all boil ten minutes; strain through a sieve, sweeten to taste, 
and when cold, use as a drink. You may grate a little nutmeg 
over the top. 

Rice Water 

Wash a tablespoonful of rice, put it in a stew-pan or crock 
with lid, pour on it a quart of cold water. When it comes to a 
boil, set it where it will simmer until the rice is a pulp. Let it 
settle a little, pour oflF, and sweeten to taste. Use either hot or 
cold. You may make the same with milk instead of water. 

Orangeade. 

Slice two oranges and one lemon, pour over them a quart of 
boiling water, sweeten to your taste ; stir occasionally. When 
cold, use a little at a time as a drink. 

* Milk Punch. 

Half a pint of new rich milk, two tablespoonsful of brandy, 
sugar to taste ; nutmeg grated on the top, if liked. 

* Toast Water. 

Cut two slices of bread half an inch thick, toast them very 
brown on both sides; be careful not to scorch them, or they are 
not fit to use. Break them in half, put them in a pitcher, pour 
over about three pints of boiling water. When cold, strain off. 
If allowed, this is a very pleasant drink with two tablespoonsful 
of currant jelly, added whilst hot and stirred occasionally until 
dissolved. 

* Eggnog. 

Beat in a tumbler the white of one egg to a stiflF froth, then 
(tdd the yolk and beat it with the white. Sweeten a glass of 
wine with loaf-sugar, beat it in the egg, and grate a little nut- 
meg on the top. This is strengthening for a convalescent. A 
uablespoonful of milk may be added if preferred. 



FOOD FOR INVALIDS AND SICK. 301 

Custard. 

Beat up two egg3, stir them in half a pi: t of milk, sweeten 
U> your taste ; set it in a pan of boiling water ; stir wntil it 
begins to thicken, then flavor with a spoonful of extract of va- 
nilla or peach-water, and set it in a cool place. 

Wine Whey. 

Boil >a pint of new milk, pour in it whilst boiling a large wine- 
glass of Sherry or Madeira wine ; let it boil up. When it sepa- 
rates, take it from the fire. Let it stand a few minutes, and 
then strain it through a tin strainer or thin muslin. When 
cool, sweeten to your taste. 

Chocolate. 

For a single cup of chocolate, g'-ate a dessertspoonful of eh j- 
eolate ; dissolve it in half a cup of boiling water ; bring to a 
boil a cup of rich milk, stir in the chocolate when thoroughly 
melted, boil up three minutes, pour out, and serve. 

For one Cup of Coffee. 

A tablespoonful of ground coffee, pour boiling water over it 
in a tin cup ; let it stand on the range (but not to boil) for five 
minutes. Pour off clear into a cup, with sugar and cream. 

* Rye Mush. 

Mix into a paste with cold water four tablespoonsful of rye 
flour, stir it into a pint of boiling water; boil twenty minutes, 
Btirring frequently. To be eaten with cream and sugar, or 
cream and salt. 

Oatmeal Mnsh. 

Stir into a cup of cold water a teacup of oatmeal, put a pint 
of boiling water into it and cook slowly for half an hour. Eaten 
with cream and sugar or salt. A larger quantity will require an 
hour to c(k)k. If in a farina-boiler, which is the right way tc 
prepare it, boil it longer. 



M2 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCii. 

Flour Ball. 

Tie in a thick cloth a bowl of flour as tightly as possible, drop 
it into a pot of cold water, bring to a boil and boil it steadily for 
three hours. Hang it up out of doors without opening it. In 
twenty-four hours it will be ready for use. Peel off the outside 
crust; grate it as you need it; mix into a paste with cold water, 
and stir it into boiling milk ; a tablespoonful will thicken a pint. 
This is given to infants in their second summer. 

• Flaxseed Tea. 

Put a tablespoonful of flaxseed into a pitcher and pour over it 
a quart of boiling water ; cover it and set in a warm place to 
steep for an hour; then add to it the juice of a large lemon and 
a few strips of the peel cut off thin with a sharp knife; sweeten 
with white sugar to your taste. Drink a tumbler of it on going 
ti bed for a cold. 

* Beef Tea. 

Out a pound of lean juicy beef into small dice; put on it a 
pint of cold water, and let it stand half an hour or more ; then 
put it in a closely-covered sauce-pan and let it heat on the range 
(but not boil) for twenty minutes ; then bring it forward and 
boil for six minutes. Strain off and season with pepper and 
salt. This is the best way of making beef tea. 

Tapioca. 

Wash half a cup of tapioca and soak it in cold water to cover 
it for two hours ; then stir it in a pint of boiling water, and 
simmer until thoroughly dissolved. If too thick, add boiling 
water. Sweeten it when poured out; add a little wine or 
brandy and grate over it a little nutmeg; or it may be served 
with sugar only. 

* For Dyspepsia. 

Take a teaspoonful of dry bran after every meal. This is a 
simple remedy and a very excellent one. 



FOOD FOR INr ALIOS AND SICK. 303 

* Another Remedy for Dyspepsia. 

Dissolve as much chlorate of potash as wii'l lie on a three-cent 
piece in a wine-glass of water, stir it until every little crystal ia 
dissolved, and take it after meals, or for a sour taste in the 
mouth. Also good for a headache. 

* For a Cold. 

Forty grains of chlorate of potash in six powders ; put one 
powder in a tumbler two-thirds full of water, and take a tanle- 
spoonful every two hours for a cold. For a sore throat, add two 
tablespoonsful of claret and use it for a gargle. 

Soda Mint. 

One teaspoonful of spirits of hartshorn, one and a half tea- 
spoonsful of bicarbonate of soda, the same of mint water, and 
six ounces of soft water. Put half the water on the soda, hot 
but not boiling. When dissolved, add the remainder of the 
water cold and the other ingredients. Procure a six-ounce vial 
to mix it in, which will determine the quantity of water to be 
nsed. Dose — a desserl spoonful after meals, for indigestion 



MISCELLANEOUS EECIPES. 



To prevent Bright and Delicate Colors in Percale and 
Chintz from Fading. 

Dissolve five-cents' worth of sugar of lead in a bucket of cold 
water, and soak the dress in it for two hours; then wash it. 

* To clean Faint. 

Put half a peck of bran into a washboiler, and fill it with cold 
water, set it over the fire, and boil it for half an hour; then 
strain through a sieve a bucket one-third full ; put as much cold 
water to it as you have of the bran-water, and use with it a soft 
scrubbing-brush ; or if the paint is not very much soiled, a soft 
flannel cloth, but no soap. It will make the paint look like new. 
Keep the remainder on the stove boiling hot to renew with. 

* To clean Tins. 

Dissolve a couple of pounds of washing soda in a boiler full 
of water, keep it hot over the fire, put a few tins in it at a time, 
and let them lie for a few minutes ; then rub with scouring sand. 
They will look almost like silver. 

* To clean the Inside of Coffee-boilers or Teapots. 

Put them on the range with a piece of soda in each as large as 
a nutmeg, and fill them with water, let them stand for several 
hours, then wash with soap and water, rinse well, and dry. 
After a cofi^ee or tea pot has been long in use, even if they are 
kept as clean as the generality of servants keep them, they will 
De the better for this process. 

20 (305) 



306 CO OKEB T FB OM EXPEBIENOE. 

To clean Black Alpaca. 

Spread the alpaca on a table, and wipe ofiF briskly the soiled 
side with a soft cloth dipped in equal parts of yinegar and water, 
press with a hot iron on the same side, and take the other for 
the outside when made up. 

* To take Grease-spots out of Colored Silk. 

Put a soft cloth under the grease-spot, holding it in your 
hand. With the other rub the spot with a clean piece of soft 
floth dipped in chloroform ; the grease will all go into the cloth 
you hold under it, and leave no mark on the most delicate color. 
If the spot is obstinate, drop the chloroform on it and rub with 
a soft cloth. A weak solution of ammonia will take stains and 
opots from black material, rubbed on in the same manner. 

To take out Tar, 
If a wash material, rub well into the tar fresh lard, and let it 
lie for several hours ; then wash out with soap. 

* To take out Sewing-machine Oil. 

Wash with cold water and soap. Wetting it with hot water 
leaves an indelible stain. 

To take Fruit Stains out of Table Linen. 

Pour boiling water over the stains before they are wet or 
touched with soap. 

To remove Rust from Steel. 

Rub with sweet oil, sprinkle with fresh-slacked lime whilst it 
is warm, let it lie for two days, then polish ofiF with dry powdered 
and unslacked lime. 

To take out Mildew. 

Rub the spots well with soap, scrape some chalk, and rub 
thickly into the soap, wet it a little, and lay the article on the 
grass ; repeat this. The second time will bring it all out 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 307 

* To make Good Hard Soap. 

To every three pounds of grease, put one and a quarter pounds 
»f salted potash and a bucket of water. 

Put the grease and potash together in a large boiler, with, if 
only three pounds, three quarts of boiling water, set it over the 
fire. As it boils, add hot water at short intervals until you have 
the full quantity ; boil it for three hours or until you find the 
Boap adhering to the stick you stir it with ; then pour all out 
into a tub or bucket, and let it stand until next day; then cut 
it in squares and dry for a day or two in the air. 

This is an excellent recipe for soap. 

To Dye Yellow. 

For carpet rags. Put two ounces of cream of tartar into a 
gallon of water, put the rags in and boil them, add rags until all 
the water is used. Dissolve an ounce and a half of bicarbonate 
of potash in three quarts of water boiling hot, take the rags out 
of the cream of tartar water with a stick, put them in this 
mixture, rinsing them up and down with the stick, then hang up 
and dry ; the rags are better to be torn in strips and tied in 
bundles. 

To Dye Red. 

Dissolve two ounces of red aniline in a gallon of boiling 
water, rinse the rags up and down in it until quite wetj then 
dry them. x 

For Blue Dye. 

Dissolve the contents of a box of blue in water, put the rags 
in, let them lie half an hour, and dry. These dipped again into 
the yellow dye make a bright green. 

* Bed Oil for Cuts and Bruises. 

Gather the yellow flowers of St. Johnswort while in full 
bloom, enough to fill a wide-mouthed bottle, then pour on sweet 
oil to cover them, tie a string round the neck of the bottle, and 
hang it from a nail out of a window or in any place where the 
sun wil' reach it for five or six weeks. When a bright red, strain 



i08 CO OKEB T FR OM EXPERIENCE. 

the oi! from the flowers, bottle and cork it. This will keep fox 
years, and is excellent for bruises or cuts. 

* For a Bum or Scald, 

Dust the burn thickly with flour from a dredging-box, and tie 
It up in old linen. After a few minutes, the pain will cease, 
and if kept covered an hour or two will cause no further trouble. 
For a deep burn or scald, stir together lime-water and sweet oil, 
and anoint the parts with a feather dipped in the mixture, which 
forms a cooling white paste. 

For the Sting of a Hornet or Bee. 

Apply hartshorn to the sting, or a little earth mixed with 
water — otherwise called mud. 

To keep Meat in Hot Weather. 

Wet a clean cloth with vinegar, wrap it round the meat, and 
put it on the ice. 

* Salve for Boils. 

One ounce of beeswax, half an ounce of powdered rosin, and 
the same of sweet lard ; melt them together over the fire. When 
thoroughly mixed, set aside to cool. Put half a teaspoonful in 
a poultice for a boil not yet open, and spread it on thick linen 
or kid, and apply it to a boil after it is opened. 

* Poultice for Boils. 

Crumb the inside of a slice of stale bread, cover it with cold 
water, let it stand fifteen or twenty minutes, then boil until per- 
fectly smooth and thick enough not to run. Spread it on old 
linen four or five double. This is better than milk in hot 
weather, as there is no danger of its becoming soir; in cold 
weather use milk instead of water. 

^ Mustard Plaster. 
One tablespoonful of mustard and three of flour. Mix them 
with warm (but not hot) water to a thick paste so that it will 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 309 

Dot run, spread on muslin doubled four times, cover with soft 
old book or Swiss muslin or tarletan, baste it round with a needle 
and thread j heat very hot two large plates by putting them in a 
hot oven, put the plaster between the plates to keep it warm 
until you prepare to apply it. 

If the case is urgent, make the plaster stronger by leaving out 
part of the flour. Keep it on for twenty minutes, or until the 
patient is relieved. 

Camplior Ice. 

Three drachms of gum camphor, three of spermaceti, three 
of white wax and two of olive-oil. 

Pound the camphor fine in a mortar, and dissolve all together 
over the fire. When all are well mixed, take it from the fire 
and beat well whilst it is cooling. For chapped hands and lips. 

Cement for Bottles. 

One ounce of yellow beeswax and two ounces of powdered 
rosin melted together in a tin cup ; stir in finely-powdered red 
brick-dust until the consistency of sealing-wax ; dip the corks in 
this whilst warm. 

Poultice for a Felon, or Gathering of any Kind. 

A small head of garlic or half a large one peeled and mashed ; 
put it in a small sauce-pan with a tablespoonful of hops and a 
little water, stew until the garlic is tender, then add a tea- 
spoonful of syrup-molasses and a piece of cheese the size of a 
hickory-nut; stew until the cheese melts (but not until the mo- 
lasses thickens), then add flour to make it the consistence of a 
nice poultice (about a teaspoon and a half), apply it warm, and 
keep it on twenty-four hours; if necessary,. renew it. One or 
two poultices of this kind are a sure cure for a gathering. 

For Corns- 
Spread a plaster of Burgundy pitch on a piece of kid the siae 
of the corn and appl^ it. A few days will effect a cure. 



310 CO OKER T FROM EXPERIENCE. 

* Cough Mixture. 

Break into small pieces one large stick of liquorice and a 
quarter of a pound of hoarhound candy j put them in a large 
bottle with a quarter of a pound of gum arabic; pour on 
them slowly a pint of boiling water, shake the bottle frequently 
until all is dissolved, which will be in twenty-four hours ; then 
add two tablespoonsful of paregoric, the same of syrip of ipecac, 
and the same of syrup of squills. Give an adult a tablespoonful 
on going to bed for a cough and cold, and a child of four or five 
years old, a teaspoonful. This will cure an obstinate cough in 
a few days, and greatly alleviates the whooping cough. Shake 
it well before using it, and keep it in a cool place. 

* A Tonic. 

Put into a pitcher two single handsful of camomile flowers, 
and pour on them a quart of cold water. It will be ready for 
use in twelve hours. Take a wineglassful three times a day to 
produce an appetite in an invalid. 



DINNER ACCOMPANIMENTS. 311 



A list for the Inex.perieneed of the proper Accompaniments 
for the following Meats, &c., for Family Dinners. 

Soup : — Sippets of toast or bread. 

Boiled Fish : — Egg-sauce, mashed potatoes and cold-slaw. 

Baked Fish : — Sauce of tomato-catsup, mashed potatoes. 

Roast Beef : — Sweet and white potatoes, macaroni baked 
with cheese, cold-slaw or dressed celery, and tomatoes stewed or 
baked, and horseradish. 

EoAST Mutton : — Currant-jelly, sweet and white potatoes, 
turnips or brown beans, and cold-slaw. 

Boast Veal : — Sweet and white potatoes, hominy and cold- 
slaw. 

Roast Lamb : — Mint-sauce, green peas, mashed potatoes, 
asparagus and dressed salad or lettuce. 

Roast Pork oe Pig : — Apple-sauce, sweet and white pota- 
toes and spinach. 

Baked or Roast Ham : — Apple-sauce, sweet and white 
potatoes, and macaroni baked in cream. 

Venison : — Currant-jelly, sweet and white potatoes, brown 
beans and cold-slaw. 

A-LA-MODE Beef : — Stewed tomatoes, boiled rice and sweet 
and white potatoes. 

Beefsteaks : — Baked tomatoes, oyster-plant, hominy and 
mashed potatoes. ' 

Veal Cutlets : — Boiled macaroni in sauce, canned corn, 
cold-slaw and potatoes. 

Stewed Beep : — Sweet and white potatoes, oyster-plant and 
spinach. 

Roast Turkey: — Cranberry-sauce, canned corn or canned 
peas, sweet and white potatoes and dressed celery. 

Roast Chickens : — Cranberry-sauce, boiled onions, oyster- 
plant, cold-slaw or dressed celery and potatoes. 

Roast Ducks : — Currant-jelly or cranberry-sauce, brown 
onion-sauce, brown bfans and sweet and white potatoes. 



612 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Birds, Oysters, &o. : — Mashed potatoes and salad or dresseu 
celery. These are served as an intermediate course. 

Boiled Turkey : — Oyster-sauce, mashed potatoes, sweet 
potatoes, spinach and dressed celery. 

Boiled 'Chickens : — Celery or oyster-sauce, mashed pota- 
toes, hominy and cold-slaw. 

Boiled Mutton : — Caper-sauce, turnips, potatoes, and toma. 
toes or baked beans. 

Boiled Corned Beep : — Tomato-catsup, browned parsnips 
or parsnips in sauce, potatoes and beets, or boiled cabbage \7ith 
drawn butter. 

Lobster Salad : — Mashed potato. An intermediate course. 

Otster-pie : — Mashed potato, and salad or cold-slaw. 

Broiled Chickens : — String-beans, squashes, new potatoes, 
sweet corn, new beets. 

Fricasseed Chicken : — Any summer vegetables. 

All kinds of summer vegetables with any poultry or meat. 

Breakfast Relishes. 

Omelettes of different kinds. Eggs, boiled, fried, baked or 
scrambled. Sausage. Scrapple. Beefsteak. Mackerel'. Fresh 
Fish fried, as smelts or other pan-fish. Fresh Mackerel, broiled 
Ham, fried, frizzled, stewed or broiled. Calf's Liver with cream 
gravy, or fried plainly. Stewed Kidneys. Sweetbreads. Oys 
ters. Meat-balls. Fish-balls. Croquettes. Corn-oysters 
Clam-fritters. Potatoes, fried, stewed, lyonaise,. German, cro 
quettes, potato-balls or Saratoga. Baked or Stewed Hash. Ra- 
gouts of Meat or Poultry. Fried Tomatoes. Egg-plant, fried 
Mutton Chops. Broiled Chickens. Broiled Smoked Shad 
Broiled Smoked Salmon. Stewed Tripe. Broiled Shad 
Pickled Beef's Liver, frizzled. Calf's Liver with mnshrooms 
Sweetbreads with mushrooms. Fried Mush. Broiled and Fried 
Tomatoes. 

Relishes for Tea or Supper. 

Frizzled Beef. Frizzled Ham. Potted Beef. Cottage-cheese, 
Welsh-rarebit Birds. Broiled Chicken. Kadishes. Oysters 



RELISHES FOB TEA OR SUPPER. 31 S 

Btcwed, fried, panned or broiled. Croquettes. Sweetbreads. 
Pickled Oysters. Stewed Lobster. Lobster-scallop. Devilled 
Lobster. Devilled Crabs. Terrapins. Fried Crabs. Little 
Sand-clams stewed or fried. Bewitched Veal. Savory Meat. 
Spiced Salmon. Broiled Smoked Salmon. Broiled Herring. 
Smoked Shad broiled. Calf's-head Terrapin. Beef Terrapin. 
Liver Terrapin. Stewed Tripe. Fresh Shad broiled Potted 
herring. Corn-oysters. Corn-pudding. Calf's Liver with 
cream-gravy. Pressed Beef. Mutton Birds. Beef Birds, 
Fricasseed Chicken. Frogs. Birds on toast or roasted. Cold 
Tongue. Cold Boiled Ham. Sweetbreads, browned, stewed, 
with mushrooms, or broiled. Stewed Mushrooms. Mutton 
Venison. Venison Steaks. Hogshead Cheese. Pig's Feet in 
jelly. Chicken Salad. Lobster Salad. Pig's Feet stewed. 
Spiced Salmon. Spiced Sturgeon. Stewed Tripe. Tomato 
Salad. CucumbeiB. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 

TO GO BY FOR THE RECIPES IN THIS BOOK 



Avoirdapois Weight. 



8 dracbms, 1 ounce. 

16 ounces 1 pound. 

28 pounds, 1 quarter of a hundred 



Liquid Measure 

4 gills, 1 pint. 

2 pints, 1 quart 

4 quarts, 1 gallon. 



Dry Measure. 

2 pints, 1 quart. 

8 quarts, 1 peck. 

4 pecks, 1 bushel. 



A medium-sized teaspoon coatains about a drachm. 
Four teaspoons are equal to one tablespoon. 
Four tablespoons are equal to one wine-glass. 
A wine-glass holds half a gill. 
A tablespoon holds half an ounce. 



A BILL OF FARE 

FOE EACH SEASON OP THE YEAR 
FOR A FAMILY OF FIVE OR SIX PERSONS. 



Spring. 

First Course. 
Green-pea Soup 

Second Course. 
Baked Shad. 



Third Course. 

Boast Lamb, mint-sauce. 

Green Peas. Asparagus. Potatoes. Tomatoes. 

Fourth Course. 
Lobster-salad. 

Fifth Course. 
Rhubarb-tart. Boiled Custard. 



316 COOKERY FROM EXPERIENCE. 

Summer. 

First Course. 
Plain Calf s-head Soup. 

Second Course. 

Broiled Chickens. Baked Ham. 

Peas. String-beans. New Potatoes in sauce. Uoung Beets 

Sweet Cora. 

Third Course. 
Veal Croquettes, made from the calf's head. Dressed Salad. 

Fourth Course. 
Fruit-pie or tart. Fruit and Cream. 



Autumn. 

First Course. 
Julienne Soup. 



Second Course. 

Roast Chickens. Beef-steak. 

Lima Beans. ' Tomatoes. Cranberry-sauce. Potatoes. 

Sweet Corn. 

Third Course. 
Sweetbreads. Green Peas, 

Fourth Course. 
Charlotte Russe. Hot Pudding, wine-sauce. 

Fifth Course. 
Fruit Nuts, 



BILLS OF FARE. 317 

Winter. 

First Course. 
Ox-tail Soup. 

Second Course. 
Boiled Rock-fish, egg-sauce. 

Third Course. 

Roast Turkey. Oyster Pie. 

Cranberry-sauce. Sweet and White Potatoes. Canned Corn 

Spinach. 

Fourth Course. 
Boiled Tongue on mashed potato. Dressed Celery. 

Fifth Course. 
Mince-pie. Ice-cream and Cake. 

Sixth Course. 
Fruit and Nutfl. 



318 



COOKERY FROM EXtERIENVE. 



For a Diimer for Fourteen Persons. 

First Course. 
Kaw Oysters on the shell. 

Second Course. 
Mock-turtle Soup. 

Third Course. 
Boiled Salmon, egg-sauce. 

Fourth Course. 

Roast Turkey. Boiled Turkey. Roast Beef. 

Crauberry-sauce. Oyster-sauce. 

Sweet and White Potatoes. Canned Peas. Stewed TomatoM 

Fifth Course. 
Roast Partridges. Fried Oysters. Dressed Salad. 

Sixth Course. 
Plum Pudding. Ice-cream and Cake. 



Fruit. 



Seventh Course. 

Nuts. Coffee. 



INDEX. 



Acoompaniments for familj dinners, 

311. 
A-la-mode beef, 31. 
Albany cakes, 246. 
Almond blanc-mange, 209. 
pudding, 178. 
white cake, 232. 
Almonds, lady cake witbcat, 229. 
Alpaca, black, to clean, 306. 
Amber cake, 224. 

soup, 11. 
Ambrosia, 262. 
Anchovy sauce, 118. 

toast, 28. 
A.-P.'s, 247. 
Apple, baked, 282. 

bird's-nest, 217. 
coddled, 200, 270. 
custard. No. 1, 202. 
No. 2, 202. 
dried, to stew, 284. 
dumplings, baked, 178. 
boiled, 178. 
crust for, 168. 
filling for cake, 258. 
float, 202. 
fritters, 206. 
jelly, 276. 
mgringue, 207. 
pie. No. 1, 172. 
No. 2, 173. 
a very good, 173. 
preserved, 276. 
pudding, No. 1, 179. 
No. 2, 179. 
No. 3, 179. 
sago jelly, 283. 
sauce, 284. 

stewed for vol-au-vent, 172. 
tapioca. No. ], 200. 
No. 2, 200. 



Arrowroot, 298. 

water, 299. 
Asparagus, 143. 
Autumn, hill of fare for, 316. 
Baked apples, 282. 

apple dumpling, 178. 
calf's head, 60. 
custard, 202. 
eggs, 113. 
egg-plant, 136. 
flour pudding. No. 1, 179. 
No. 2, ISO. 
ham, 52. 

ham and veal, 67. 
Indian pudding, 180. 
macaroni, 138. 
pears, 283. 
pork and beans, 57. 
potatoes, 127. 
shad, 20. 
tomatoes, 140. 
Barbadoes jumbles, 240. 
Barbecued chicken, 79. 
Batter pudding, 198. 
Bavarian cream, 214. 
Beans, brown, French, 142. 
Lima, 143. 
string, 132. 
Bee, remedy for sting of, 308. 
Beef, 30. 

a-la-mode, 31. 
balls, 43. 
birds, 38. 
bouilli, 34. 
brisket, 33. 
corned, 42. 
forcemeat. 111. 
frizzled dried, 38. 

with cream, 39. 
No. 3, 39 
hash, 35. 

(319) 



320 



INDEX. 



Beef hash, baked, 37. 
heart, 36. 

kidDeys, stewed, No. 1, 40. 
No. 2, 43. 
liver, pickled, 34. 
pickle for corning, 42. 
pie, 41. 
potted, 40, 
pressed, 39 

ragout of cold, No. 1, 35. 
No. 2, 35. 
roast, 30. 

with Yorkshire padding, 30. 
round, salted, 34. 
rump steak, stewed, 39. 
savory, 41. 
sirloin, 32. 
soup, 11. 
epiced, No. 1, 36. 
No. 2, 37. 
Bteak, broiled, 32. 
pudding, 42. 
stewed, 32, 33. 
stuffed, 37. 
stewed, 32. 
stuffed, 41. 
terrapin, 99. 
tongue bouilli, 33. 
Beets, 137. 
Bewitched veal, 68. 
Bills of Fare for autumn, 312. 
spring, 311. 
summer, 312. 
winter, 313. 
fourteen person8,3I4 
Birds, beef, 38. 

mutton, 49. 
Bird's-nest, 216. 

apple, 217. 
Biscuit, Fayal, 150. 

Maryland, No. 1, 149. 
No. 2, 149. 
No. i, 149. 
potato, 151. 
soda, 150. 
tea. No. 1, 150. 
No. 2, 151. 
very fine, 149. 
Black alpaca, to clean, 306. 
bean sou^, 14. 



Black cake, 220, 23% 

padding, 180. 
Blackberries, canned, 282. 
Blackberry cordial, 265. 
jam, 275. 
jelly, 277. 
mush, 200. 
Blanc-mange, 209. 

almond, 209. 
chocolate. No. 1, 210. 
No. 2, ilO. 
No. 3, 210 
corn-atarcb, 209. 
cream, 210. 
gelatine, 211. 
Iceland moss, 209. 
isinglass, 210. 
peach, 211. 
rice, 211. 
Blanquette of veal, 63. 
Blot's, Prof., chicken croquettes, lOlll 
Blue dye, 307. 
Boiled apple dumpling, 178. 

batter pudding, 180, 198. 
chickens, 74. 
codfish, 19. 
custards, 197, 203. 
eggs, 113. 
haddock, 19. 
halibut, 24. 
Indian pudding, 180. 
leg of mutton, 44. 
macaroni, 137. 
rice, 143. 
rockfish, 19. 
salmon, 19. 
salsify, 134. 
smoked tongue, 38. 
sturgeon, 21. 
turkey, 72. 
Boiling, roasting, <tc., remarks on, 28. 
Boned turkey, 73, 74. 
Bordeaux sauce, 293. 
Bounce, cherry, 264. 

raspberry, 264. 

Braised chicken, 77. 

Brandied peaches. No. 1, 273. 

No. 2, 273. 

No. 3, 273. 

No. 4, 274. 



INDEX. 



321 



broad and apple pudding, 181. 
and butter pudding, 181. 
biscuit, 148. 
brown. No. 1, 147. 
No. 2, 147. 
cakes, 155. 
Canada egg, 155, 
corn, No. 1, 164. 
No. 2, 164. 
No. 3, 164. 
No. 4, 165. 
dried, 151. 
fritters, 206. 
Mississippi corn, 165. 
mountain, No. 1, 147. 
No. 2, 147. 
No. 3, 148. 
muffins, 160, 
pudding, 197. 
rusli;, 250. 
rye, 148. 
Saratoga, 148. 
wheat, No. 1, 146. 
No. 2, 147. 
Breakfast cake. No. 1, 155. 
No. 2, 155. 
Indian meal, 156, 
oatmeal, 157. 
pndding,New England,159 
relishes, 312. 
rolls, 151. 
Breast of veal, 63. 

stnfied, 69. 
Broiled chicken, 77. 
halibut, 24. 
ham, 54. 
oysters, 91, 
pigeons, 80. 
shad, 23. 
sweetbreads, 66. 
tomatoes, 137. 
Brook trout, 22. 
Broth, chicken, 298. 

mutton, 12, 298. 
Brown betty pudding, 199. 
bread, 147. 
French beans, 142. 
fricassee of chicken, 76, 
onion sauce, 142. 
eoup of chickens, 11. 

21 



Browned flour, 115. 

potatoes, 127. 
sweet potatoes, l39. 
Browning for soup, 120. 
Brunswick tart, 176. 
Buckeye-cake, 230. 
Buckwheat cakes, 157. 
Bunns, No. 1, 248. 
No. 2, 248. 
Spanish, No. 1, 246. 
No. 2, 246. 
No. 3, 246. 
Burn or scald, remedy for, 308. 
Butter, lemon, 201. 
tomato, 278. 
Buttered toast, 158. 
Cabbage, boiled, 131. 
stewed, 133. 
Cabinet pudding. No. 1, 181., 
No. 2, 198. 
Cable pudding, 182. 
Cake, Albany, 246. 

amber, 224. 

black, 220, 232. 

bread, 155. 

breakfast, 155. 

Buckeye, 230. 

chocolate, 241. 

cinnamon, 236. 

citron, 224. 

clove, 229. 

coeoaDut, 238. 

cocoanut. No. 1, 235, 
No. 2, 236. 

coffee, 228. 

composition, 225. 

Connecticut, 230. 

corn-batter, 157. 

corn-starch, 230- 

cream drop, 241. 

cream jelly, 236. 

cup, a good, 233. 

custard for filling, 237 

delicate, 233. 

Dover, 231. 

drop, 241. 

drop ginger, 242. 

Dutch, 236. 

English fruit, 220. 

farmer's fruit, 221. 



d22 



INDEX. 



Cake, fine ginger, 252. 
flannel, l&S. 
French loaf, No. 1, 222. 
No. 2, 222. 
fruit, No. 1, 219. 
No. 2, 219. 
fruit ginger, 226 
ginger, 253. 

cup. No. 1, 251. 

No. 2, 252. 
gold, 234. 

gold and silver, 234. 
Harrison, 221. 
Hyde Parlt, 23^. 
imperial, 221. 

Indian meal breakfast, 156. 
Jackson, 234. 
jelly. No. 2, 237. 
No. 3, ni. 
lady, 236. 

lady, without almonds, 229. 
light, 225. 
loaf, 227. 
Madeline, 242. 
molasses cup, 225. 
molasses fruit, 224. 
Moravian, 249. 
mush, 158. 
New Year's, 248. 
New York tea, 247. 
oatmeal breakfast, 157. 
orange, 235, 238. 
pan, 218. 
Peggy's, 231. 
plain fruit, 222. 
plain ginger, 252. 
plum, 227. 
pound, 235. 
pudding, 182. 
queen. No. 1, 239. 
No. 2, 239. 
quefrn's, 223. 
raised Sannet, 158. 
raisin, 222. 
republican, 229. 
lioe, 231. 
rice griddle. No. 1, 156 

No. 2, 156. 

No. 3, 156. 
Scotch, No. 1, 223. 



Cake, Scotch, No. S 224. 

Scran ton sponge, 228. 
S. E. B.'b, 230. 
silver. No. 1, 234. 
No. 2, 234. 
No. 3, 235. 
snowflake, 232, 
soda, 233. 
soft ginger, 252. 
sponge ginger, 229. 
sponge. No. 3, 228. 
No. 4, 229. 
strawberry short, 226. 
tea, 155. 

Tibbie's sponge, 228. 
velvet, 157. 
walnut, 241. 
Washington, 223, 238. 
West Philadelphia, 233. 
white almond, 232. 
white cup, 232. 
White Mountain, 238. 
whortleberry, 227. 
Wisconsin, 158. 
Calf » bead, baked, 60. 

fricassee, 63. 
fried, 66. 
scalloped, 62. 
soup, 9. 
terrapin, 100. 
Calf's liver, 67. 

liver, mock terrapin of, 101, 
with cream, 64. 

mushrooms, 64. 
Camphor ice, 309. 
Canada egg bread, 155. 
Candied orange-peel, 279. 
Candy, hoarhound, 259. 
Canned blackberries, 2S2. 
corn, 282. 



pears, 280. 

pineapple, 281. 

tomatoes, 282. 
Canteiope, sp:ced, 278. 
Canvas-back ducks, 86. 
Caper sauce, 118. 
Caramels, 259. 
Carrots, stewed, 135. 
Cassarole of potatoes, 128. 



INDEX. 



323 



Oatfish, 22. 

Catsup, mushroom, 295. 
tomato, 296. 
walnut, 295, 
Oauliflower, pickled, 289. 
to boil, 131. 
Oelerj dressed, 103. 
sauce, 119. 
soy, 296. 
stowed, 139. 
Cement for bottles, 309. 
Centre-pieoe for dinner-table, 262. 
Charlotte russe. No. 1, 211. 
No. 2, 212. 
No. 3, 212. 
No. 4, 212. 
No. 5, 213. 
No. 6, 213. 
No. 7, 213. 
Cheese cakes, 218. 
cottage, 218. 
hogshead, 56. 
omelette, 112. 
Cherries, preserved, 269. 
Cherry bounce, 264. 

pie, 173. 
Chicken, and oysters, 78. 

and sweetbread croq's, 107. 

a plainer way, 108. 
barbecued, 79. 
boiled, 74. 
braised, 77. 
broiled, 77. 
broth, 298. 
croquettes, 107. 

No. 2, 107. 
curry, No. 1, 78. 
No. 2, 79. 
fricasseed, brown, 75. 
white, 75. 
fried, 78. 
pie, 75. 
pilau of, 77. 
pot-pie, 76. 
Professor Blot's eroq's, 108. 

another way, 1 '8. 
roast, 74. 
salad, 104. 
terrapin, 100. 
China of pork, roast, 58. 



Chocolate, 263. 

No. 2, 210. 
No. 3, 210. 
blane-mange. No. 1, 210. 
cake, 231, 241. 
custards, 203. 
filling for cake, 257. 

Nn, 2, 25J 
icing, 257. 
in cream, 260. 
one cup, 301. 
Chops, mutton, 48. 
pork, 64. 
stewed, 46. 
Chow-chow of pickles, 288. 
Chowder, No. 1, 26. 
No. 2, 26. 
clam, 27, 97. 
Cinnamon cake, 236. 
Citron cake, 224. 

melon, 274. 
Clams, chowder, 97. 
fried, 28. 
fritters, 98. 
scalloped, 98. 
soup, 8. 
stewed, 97. 
Clarified sugar, 282. 
Clove cake, 229. 
Cocoanut cakes, 235, 238. 

No. 2, 236. 
custard, 203. 
drops, 241. 
filling, 258. 
jumbles, 240. 
pudding, 183. 
Coddled apples, 200, 276. 
Codfish, cakes, 25. 

New Haven, 26. 
sauce for, 119. 
omelette, 112. 
to boil a fresh, 19, 
salt, 25. 
Coffee, 263. 

boilers, to clean, 305. 
cake, 228. 
ice-cream, 260. 
one cup of, 301. 
Cold, a remedy for a, 303. 
beef, a good pie of, 41. 



334 



INDEX. 



Cold custard, M3. 

mutton or laii.b, 51. 

ragout ofj 35. 
roast turkey, 72. 
slaw, 133. 
tomato sauce, 292. 
veal, croquettes of, 109, 
OoUege pudding, 183. 
Colored silk, to clean, 306. 
Composition cake, 225. 
Compote of oranges, 275, 
Connecticut cake, 230, 
Cookies, No. 1, 247. 
No. 2, 248. 
Cooking utensils necessary in a 

kitchen, 6. 
Cooling drink, 266. 
Cordial, blackberry, 265, 
Corn, batter-cakes, 167. 
bread. No. 1, 164. 
No. 2, 164. 
No. 3, 164. 
No. 4, 165. 
Mississippi, 561, 
canned, 282. 
dodgers, 165. 
green, boiled, 144, 
muffins, 161. 

No, 2, 161. 
omelette, 114. 
oysters, 131. 
pudding, 131. 
puffs, 165. 
starch-cake, 230. 

meringue, 207. 
sweet, stewed, 144, 
Corned beef, 42. 

pickle for, 42. 
leg of pork, 59. 
Corns, for, 309. 

Corn-starch pudding. No. 1, 183, 
No. 2, 183. 
blanc-mange, 209. 
meringues, 2C7, 
Cottage cheese, 218. 

pudding, 184. 
Cough mixture, 310. 
Crab apples, to preserve, 280. 
Crabs, devilled, 96. 
soft-shell, 97. 



Crackers, to soak, 299. 
Cranberry^tart, 177. 

sauce, 283, 
Cream, Bavarian, 214, 

blanc-mange, 210. 
curds and, 214. 
drop-cake, 241. 
jelly-cake, 236. 
macaroni, baked ii,, a3R, 
pie, Florence, 174, 
puffs, 204. 

No. 2, 204. 
filling for, 204. 
sauce, 122. 
Spanish, 214. 
spring fruit, 199. 
toast, 159, 299. 
velvet, 215. 
wine, 215. 
Crisp gingerbread, 253. 
Croquettes, chicken, 107. 

No. 2, 107. 
and sweet- 
bread, 108, 
plainer way, 108. 
oyster, 109. 
Professor BlSt's, 108. 

another way, 108, 
potato, 110. 
veal, 109, 111. 
Crullers, No. 1, 243, 
No. 2, 244. 
No. 3, 244. 
No. 4, 244. 
Crust for apple-dumplings, 168, 
Cucumbers, fried, 134. 
large, 292. 
pickled. No. 1, 287 
No. 2, 287. 
yellow, 290. 
salad, 105. 
sauce, 292. 
stuffed, 135. 
Cups, rice, 184. 
Curds and cream, 214. 
Currant and raspberry jam, 274. 
jelly, 277. 

sauce, 122. 
Currant shrub, 264. 
wine, 264. 



INDEX. 



325 



Curry, chicken, 78. 

No. 2, 79. 
mutton, 46. 
of tripe, 68. 
veal, 68. 
powder, 123. 
rabbit, 8.S. 
sauce, Soyer's, 123. 
Ouatard, apple No. 1, 202. 
No. 2, 202. 
bailed, 202. 
boiled, 197, 203. 
obocolate, 203. 
cocoanut, 203. 
cold, 203. 
filling, 258. 
for jelly-cake, 237. 

Indian pudding, 188. 
lemon, 203. 
meringue, 208. 
sauce, 122. 
snow-ball, 204. 
Cutlets, lamb, 51. 

mutton or lamb, 51. 
veal, 61. 
Cuts and bruises, red oil for, 307. 
Delicate cake, 233. 
Dessert, a frozen, 216. 

of rice, 201. 
Derilled crabs, 96. 

lobster, 97. 
Dinners, accompaniments for, 311. 
Dinner-table, centre-piece for, 262, 

for fourteen people, bill of fare 
for, 318. 
Dodgers, corn, 165. 
Doughnuts, Tery fine, 244. 

No. 2, 245. 
nonpareil, 245. 
quick, 245. 
Dover cake, 231. 
Drawn butter, 117. 
Dressed celery, 103. 
Dried apples, stewed, 284. 
beef, frizzled, 38. 

No. 2, 39. 
No. 3, 39. 
bread, 151. 
fruits, 262. 
peaches, stewed, 284. 



Dried rusk, 240. 
toast, 159. 
Drink, a cooling, 266. 
Drop cakes, 241. 
Dry yeast, 145. 
Ducks, canvas-back, 86. 
roasted, 85. 
stewed, 85. 
warmed over, 85. 
wild, stewed, 87. 
Dumplings, apple, baked, 178. 
boiled, 178 
for pepperpot, 18. 
suet crust for, 170. 
Dutch cake, 236. 
Dye, blue, 307. 
red, 307. 
yellow, 307. 
Dyspepsia, remedy for, 302, 30i. 
Eels, fried, 23. 

stewed, 23. 
Egg -bread, Canada, 155. 
Eggnog, 266. 

for invalids, 300. 
Egg-plant, baked, 136. 

fried, 135. 
Egg-sauce for fish, 117. 

puddings, 121. 
Eggs, baked, 113. 
boiled, 113. 
fried, 113. 
ham with, 115. 
on toast, 114. 
scrambled, 113. 
English fruit-cake, 220. 

paste for game pies, 171. 
pudding, 184. 
puff paste, 170. 
recipe for lemon pudding,189. 
Family dinners, accompaniments for, 
.11. 
Fanny S.'s savory beef, 41. 
Farina pudrfing, 184. 
Farmer's fruit-cake, 221. 
Fayal biscuit, 150. 
Felon, poultice for, 309. 
Figs, peach, 270. 
Fillet of veal, 60. 
Filling, apple, 258. 

chocolate, for cake, 257. 



326 



INDEX. 



Filling, cocoaniit, 258. 
custard, 258. 
for puffs, 204. 
of lemon, 258. 

No. 2, 258. 
orange, 258. 
Fine ginger-cake, 252. 
Pish, stewed, 24. 
Flaanel cakes, 158. 

raised, 158. 
rolls, 153. 
Flaxseed tea, 302. 
Florence cream-pie, 174, 
Flounders, 20. 
Flour ball, 302. 
Forcemeat balls of beef. 111. 
veal, 111. 
Fourteen people, dinner for, 318. 
Fox-grape jelly, 278. 
French beans, brown, 142. 
fritters, 206. 
loaf-cake, 222. 

No. 2, 222. 
panada, 299. 
puff paste, 170. 
rolls, 153. 
tart, 177. 

way of cooking green peas, 
130. 
Fricassee, brown, of chicken, 76. 

white, 75. 
Fricasseed rabbit, 33. 

sturgeon, 28. 
Fried chicken, 78. 
clams, 28. 
cucumbers, 134. 
eels, 23. 
egg-plant, 135. 
eggs, 113. 
flounders, 20. 
halibut, 24. 

ham and eggs, 55, 115. 
mush, 166. 
parsnips, 136. 
potatoes, 126. 

No. 2, 126. 
oysters, 92. 
salsify, 130. 
sea bass, 20. 
sweetbreads. No. 1, 65. 



Fried sweetbreads. No. 2, 6b. 

tomatoes, 140. 
Fritters, apple, 206. 
bread, 206. 
clam, 98. 
French, 206. 
orange, 207. 
plain, 207. 
Spanish, 207. 
Frogs, 89. 
Frost fish, 21. 

jelly, 215. 
Frozen dessert, 216. 
peaches, 261. 
Fruit, cake. No. 1, 219. 
No. 2, 219. 
English, 220. 
farmer's, 221. 
plain, 222. 
for winter pies, 281. 
ginger-cake, 226. 
jumbles, 226. 
molasses-cake, 224. 
stains, to take out, 308, 
tapioca, 201. 
Game, 71. 
Gelatine blanc-mange, 211. 

pudding, 185. 
German potatoes, 127. 

puffs, 205. 
Gingerbread, 263. 

crisp, 253. 
orange, 263. 
nuts, No. 1, 254. 
No. 2, 255. 
soft. No. 1, 250. 
No. 2, 260. 
No. 3, 251 
No. 4, 251. 
No. 5, 251. 
Ginger-cake, 263. 

drop, 242. 
fine, 262. 
fruit, 226. 
plain, 252. 
soft, 262. 
sponge, 229. 
Ginger cup-cake. No. 1, 251. 
No. 2, 252. 
Good cup-cake, 233. 



INDEX. 



327 



ufinger snaps, No. 1, 253. 

No. 2, 254. 

No. 3, 254 

No. 4, 254 

No. 5, 254. 

(xold and sUrer cake, 234 

Sold cake, 234. 

Goose, roast, 85. 

to dress, cold, 86. 
Graham rolls, 154. 
Grape jam, 279. 
jelly, 278. 
Grapes for pies, 279. 
Grease, out of silk or woollen, 306. 
Gritz, samp or, 140. 
Green corn, 144. 
gages, 276. 
pea soup, 16. 
peas, 131. 

French way of cooking, 
130. 
lamb stewed with, 50. 
tomato pickle, 294. 
Gruel, Indian, 297. 
oatmeal, 297. 

very fine, 297. 
sago, 297. 
Q-uinea fowls, 83. 
Gumbo soup, No. 1, 10. 
No. 2. 10. 
No. 3, 10. 
Haddock, 19. 
Half puff paste, 169. 
Halibut, fried, 24. 
boiled, 24. 
broiled, 24. 
Ham, and eggs, 55. 

and real, baked, 67. 
patties, 70.. 
pie, 70. 
baked, 52. 
broiled, 54. 
frizzled, 59. 
omelette, 112. 
sandwiches, 59. 
stewed, 55, 114. 
with eggs, 115. 
Hard sauce, 121. 
Haricot, mutton, 47. 

No 2,47. 



Harrison caje, 221. 
Hartford pudding, 185. 
Hasty pudding, 185. 
Haunch of venison, roasted, ST. 
Herring, potted, 23. 
smoked, 27. 
Hiawatha pudding, 185. 
Higdon, 293. 
Hoarhound candy, 259. 
Hogshead cheese, 56. 
Hominy, 139, 

Hornet or bee, sting of, 308. 
Horse-radish, 119. 

sauce, 118. 
Hot rolls, 152. 
Hyde Park cake, 233, 
Ice-cream, chocolate, 260. 
coffee, 260. 
orange, 260. 
vanilla, 259. 
Iceland moss, blanc-mange of, 209, 
Ice, orange water, 261. 
Icing, chocolate, 257. 

white, 257. 
Imperial cake, 221. 
Indian custard pudding, 188. 
gruel, 297. 
mangoes, 288. 
meal breakfast cakes, 156. 
mufBns, No. 1, 161. 
No. 2, 161. 
mush, 166. 
pudding, baked, 180. 
boiled, 181. 
No. 1, 186. 
No. 2, 186. 
No. 3, 186. 
No. 4, 186. 
No. 5, 187. 
No. 6, 187. 
No. 7, 187. 
No. 8, 187. 
Introduction, 6. 
Irish stew, 46. 

Isinglass, blanc-mange of, 210. 
Jackson cake, 234. 
Jam, blackberry, 275. 

currant and raspberry, 274. 
grape, 279. 
raspberry, 27U 



323 



INDEX. 



Jolly, apple, 276. 

upple-sago, 283. 
blackberry, 277. 
cake, cream, 236. 
No. 2, 237. 
No. 3, 237. 
currant, 277. 
fox-grape, 278. 
frost, 215. 
orange, 216. 

raspberry and currant, 277. 
sauce, 122. 
wine, 216. 
Julienne soup, 13. 
Jumbles, 210. 

No. 1, 239. 
No. 2, 239. 
Barbadoes, 240. 
cocoanut, 240. 
fruit, 226. 
plain, 240. 
soft, 240. 
Kidneys, beef's, stewed, 40. 

No. 2, 43. 
lamb's, 52. 
sheep's, 49. 
Ennclile of real, 61. 

ragout of, 66, 
soup, 12. 
stewed, 61. 
Lady cake, 236. 

without pJmonds, 229. 
Lake trout, 22, 
Lamb, 49. 

cold, to warm over, 61. 
cutlets, 51. 

broiled, 51. 
fore-quarter, roasted, 50. 
hind-quarter, roasted, 49. 
kidneys, 52. 

leg, stewed with green peas,50. 
liver, 51. 
neck, stewed, 51. 
shoulder, broiled, 60. 
Laplanders, 169. 
Larded sweetbreads, 64. 
Large cucumbers, 292. 
Leg of mutton boiled, 44. 
boned, 46. 
roasted, 15. 



Leg of mutton stewed, 44. 
stuffed, 45. 
Leg of pork corned, 59. 

stuffed and roasted, 52 
veal, salted, 69. 
Lemonade in a minute, 265. 
Lemon butter, 201. 

filling. No. 1, 258. 
No. 2, 258. 
pie. No. 1, 174. 
No. 2, 174. 
pudding, one, 189. 
No. 1, 188. 
No. 2, 188. 
No. 3, 188. 
puddings, two, 189. 

English, 189 
sauce, 122. 
sponge, 201. 
Lettuce or head-salad, 105. 
Light-cake, 226. 
Lima beans, 134. 
Liver, beefs, pickled, 34. 
calf's, fried, 64. 

mock terrapin of, 101 
with cream, 64. 

mushrooms, 64. 
Loin of mutton, roasted, 48. 

veal, roasted, 69. 
Loaf-cake, 227. 

Prench, No. 1, 222. 
No. 2, 222. 
Lobster devilled, 97. 
patties, 96. 
salad, 103. 
scalloped, 96. 
stewed, 98. 
Lyonuaise of potatoes, 129. 
Macaroni, 139. 

baked in cream, 138. 

with cheese, 133. 
boiled, 137. 
pudding, 139. 
Macaroons, No. 1, 242. 
No. 2, 242. 
No. 3, 243. 
Machine oil, to take out, 306. 
Mackerel, 23. 
Madeline cake, 242. 
Maigre soup, 16. 



INDEX. 



329 



Mangoes, Indian, 288. 
Marmalade, 273. 

peiioh, No. 1, 272. 
No. 2, 273. 
quince, 272. 
Maryland biscuit, No. 1, 149. 
No. 2, 149. 
No. 3, 149. 
Mdttt balls, 43, 110. 
mince, 176. 

to keep in hot weather, 309. 
Melon, citron, 278. 
Meringues, 243. 

apple, 207. 
corn-starch, 207. 
custard, 208. 
raspberry, 208, 
rice, 208. 
Mildew, to take out, 306. 
Milk punch, 300. 

toast, 159. 
Mince-meat, 176. 
Mint sauce, 119. 
Mississippi corn bread, 165, 
Mixed pickles, 289, 293. 
Mock terrapin of calf s liver, 101 

turtle soup, 8. 
Molasses cup cake, 225. 

fruit cake, 224, 
Moravian cake, 249. 
Mountain bread, No. 1, 147. 
No. 2, 147, 
No. 3, 148. 
Mutans, bread, 160. 

corn. No. 1, 161. 
No. 2, 161. 
potato, 161. 
quick, 162. 
raised, No. 1, 160. 
No. 2, 160. 
rice, 161. 
water, 162. 
Mush, 166. 

blackberry, 200. 
cakes, 158. 
fried, No. 1, 166 
No. 2, 166 
• No. 3, 166, 
oatmeal, 301. 
rye, 301. 



Mushroom catsup, 295, 

sauce, No. 1, 118. 
No. 2, 119. 
stewed, No. 1, 137. 
No. 2, 138. 
Mushrooms, 137. 
Mustard plaster, 308, 
Mutton, 44. 

and sweetbreads, 65. 
birds, 49, 
broth, 14. 

for the sick, 298. 
chops, 48. 

stewed, 46. 
curry, 46. 

for breakfast or supper, 48. 
haricot. No. 1, 47. 
No. 2, 47. 
Irish stew of, 46. 
kidneys, 49. 
leg, boiled, 44. 
boned, 46. 
roasted, 45. 
stewed, 44. 
stuffed, 45. 
loin, roasted, 48. 
soup, 12. 
stew, 48. 
venison, 45. 
Nashville pudding, 189. 
Nasturtiums, pickled, 295. 
Neck and shoulder of lamb, 51. 

venison, 88. 
New England breakfast pudding 159 
New Haven codfish cakes, 26. 
New Market pudding, 198. 
New Year's cakes, 248. 
New York tea cake, 247. 
Nonpareil doughnuts, 245, 
Nouilles for soup, 18. 
Nottingham pudding, 190. 
Nuts, 262. 

gingerbread, No. 1, 254. 
No. 2, 255. 
Oatmeal breakfast cakes, 157. 
gruel. No. 1, 297, 
No. 2, 297. 
mush, 301. 
Omelette, 113. 

cheese, Welsh rarebit, 1 12. 



330 



INDEX. 



Omelette, eod&sh, 12. 
corn, Hi. 
ham, 112. 
oyster, 115. 
BOttffie, 205. 

No. 2, 205 
tomato, 115. 
with crumba, 114. 
One lemon pudding, 189. 
Onion sauce, brown, 142. 
Onions boiled, 133. 
pickled, 290. 
rabbit and, 84. 
Orange cake, 235, 238. 
filling, 268. 
fritters, 207. 
gingerbread, 253. 
ice-cream, 260. 
jelly, 216. 
peel, candied, 279. 
pudding, No. 1, 190. 
No. 2, 190. 
sauce, 122. 
water ice, 261. 
Orauges, compote of, 275. 
Oyster croquettes, 109. 
omelette, 115. 
'-.patties, 93. 
■pie, No. ], 94. 
^ No. 2, 94. 
sauce, 117. 
soup. No. 1, 7. 
No. 2, 7. 
Oysters, chicken and, 78. 
broiled,^ 91. 
corn, 131. 
fried, 92. 
on toast, 298. 
panned, '92. 
pickledy 95. 

another way, 95u 
roasted, 95. 
scalloped, 92. 

No. 2, 92. 
No. 3, 93 
stewed, 91. 
Okra, 134. 

soup, 18. 
Orangeade, 300. 
Ox tail s up, 14. 



Paint, to clean, 305. 
Panada, 299. 

French, 299. 
Pan cakes 218. 
Parker house-rolls, 153. 
Parsnips, boiled, 136. 

browned, 136. 
fried, 136. 
Patties, ham and veal, 70. 
lobster, 96. 
oyster, 93. 
Partridges, 88. 

pie of, 82. 
salmi of, 81. 
to roast, 81. 
Pastry and puddings, remarks on, 167 
Pasty, venison, 88. 
Peaches, brandied, No. 1, 273. 
No. 2, 273. 
No. 3, 273. 
No. 3, 274. 
canned, 280. 
dried to stew, 284. 
for shells or pies, 269. 
frozen, 261. 
preserved, 269. 
spiced, 270. 

whole, 274. 
Peach blanc-mange, 211 
figs, 270. 

marmalade. No. 1, 272. 
No. 2, 273. 
Pears, baked, 283. 
canned, 280. 
preserved, 268. 
to stew for winter use, 278. 
Peas, boiled, 131. 
canned, 280. 

French way of cooking, 130. 
green, 131. 

soup, 16. 
preserved, 268, 
split, soup, 16. 

■ No. 2, 17. 
Peggy's cake. 231. 
Pepper pot, 13. 

dumplings for, 18. 
pickled, 294. 
Percale, to prevent fading, 306. 
Pheasants, 82. 



INDEX. 



331 



Cio&.e for corning beef, 42. 
Pickled beefs liver, 34. 
cauliflower, 289. 
cbow-cbow, 288. 
cucumbers, 287. 
No. 2, 
large, 292. 
nasturtiums, 295. 
onions, 290. 
oysters, 94. 

No. 2, 94. 
peppers, 294. 
salmon, spiced, 22. 
tomatoes, 294. 
walnuts, 291. 

No. 2, 291. 
yellow cucumbers, 290 
Pickles, green tomato, 298. 

Indian mangoes, 288. 
mixed, 289, 293. 

No. 2, 293. 
Shakers', 290. 
Spanish, 289. 
Pickerel, 24. 
Pie, apple, 172. 

No. 2, 173. 
a very good, 173. 
beef, 41. 
cherry, 173. 
chicken, 75. 
cold beef, 41. 
crust, plain, 168. 
Florence cream, 174. 
lemon. No. 1, 174. 
No. 2, 174. 
oyster, No. 1, 94. 
No. 2, 94. 
peuch, No. 1, 174. 
No. 2, 175. 
pigeon, 80. 
plum, 175. 
pot apple, 173. 
raisin, 175. 
Teal, 62. 

and ham, 70. 
Washington pie, 175, 
Pig's feet in jelly, 67. 
soused, 58. 
stevred, 5# 
I*ig, roasted, 53. 



Pigeons, broiled, 80. 
pie, 80. 
roasted, 80. 
squabs, 298. 
stewed, 79. 
Pilau of chicken, 77. 
Pineapple, canned, 281. 

preserved, 275. 
Piquante, sauce, 123. 
Plain calf's head soup, 9. 
fritters, 207^ 
ginger-cake, 262, 
pie crust, 168. 
Plaster, mustard, for corns, 308. 
Plum cake, 227. 
Pocket-book rolls, 153. 
Poke, 143. 
Pone, 166. 
Pop-overs, 160. 
Pound-cake, 235. 
Pork, 52. 

and beans, baked, 67. 
chine, roasted, 58. 
leg corned, 59. 

stuffed and roasted, S2, 
sausage. No. 1, 54. 
No. 2, 64. 
spare ribs, 54. 
steaks or chops, 54. 
tenderloins, 57. 
Pot apple pie, 173. 
pie, chicken, 76. 
crust for, 168. 
Potato, balls, fried, 128. 
biscuit, 151. 
croquettes, 110. 
muffins, 161. 
pie, 128. 
puddings, 191. 
rolls. No. 1, 154. 
No. 2, 154. 
salad, 106. 
scallop, 128. 
snow, 127. 
Potatoes, baked, 127. 

boiled (sweet), 129. 
boiled white, 126. 

browned, 127 
browned, 129. 
cassarole of, 128. 



332 



INDEX. 



Potatoes, fried, Nc 1 (white), 126. 
No. 2, 126. 
German, 127. 
lyonnaise of, 129. 
maslied, 125. 

warmed over, 126. 
new, 126. 
roast, 12?, 129. 
stewed, 127. 
sweet, browned, 129. 

roastSd, 129. 
warmed over, 126, 
Potted beef, 40. 

herring, 23. 
shad, 24. 
Poultice for boils, 308. 

a felon, 309. 
Pound cake, 235. 
Powder, curry, 123. 
Prepared rennet, 214. 
Preserved apple, 276. 

cherries, 269. 
fruit, shells for, 171. 
peaches, 269. 
pine apple, 275. 
strawberries, 270. 
tomatoes, 273. 
Preserving, canning, remarks on, 269. 
Pressed beef, 39. 

Prof. Blot's chicken croquettes, 108. 
Prunellas, 285. 
Prunes", to stew, 284. 
Puddi*?, almond, 178. 

apple. No. 1, 179. 
No. 2, 179. 
No. 3, 179. 
batter, 180, 198. 
beefsteak, 42. 
bird's nest, 216. 
black, 180. 
bread, 197. 

bread and apple, 181. 
bread and butter, 181. 
brown Betty, 199. 
cabinet, 181, 198. 
cable, 182. 
cake, 182. 
cocoanut, 183, 
college, 183. 
corn, 131. 



Pudding, oorn-staroh, No. 1, 183. 
No. 2, 183, 
cottage, 184. 
English, 184. 
farina, 184. 

flour, baked. No. 1, 179. 
No. 2, 180. 
boiled, batter, 180 
gelatine, 185. 
Hartford, 185. 
hasty, 185. 
Hiawatha, 185. 
Indian, No. 1, 186. 
No. 2, 186. 
No. 3, 186. 
No. 4, 186. 
No. 5, 187. 
No. 6, 187. 
No. 7, 187. 
No. 8, 187. 
baked, 180. 
boiled, 181. 
custard, 188. 
lemon, No. 1, 188. 
No. 2, 188. 
No. 3, 188. 
English receipt, 189 
macaroni, 139. 
Nashville, 189. 
New England breakfast,! 591 
Newmarket, 198. 
Nottingham, 190. 
one lemon, 189. 
orange, No. 1, 190. 
No. 2, 190. 
plum, 191. 

plain. No. 1, 191. 
No. 2, 191. 
potato, 191. 
Prince Albert's, 191. 
pumpkin, 192. 
queen of, 192. 
quick, 192. 
rice, 193. 
roley-poley, 193. 
sauce, 121. 

No. 2, 121. 
cream, 122. 
custard, 122, 
hard, 122, 



INDEX. 



333 



Pudding sauce, lemon, 122. 
orange, 122. 
wine, 120. 

No. 2, 120. 
No. 3, 120. 
No. 4, 121. 
enow, 193. 
Spanish, 193. 
sponge cake, 194. 
spring fruit, 199. 

cream, 199. 
steamed, 194. 
Buet, No. 1, 194. 
No. 2, 194. 
No. 3, 195. 
summer, 195. 
tapioca, No. 1, 195. 
No. 2, 196. 
No. 3, 196. 
No. 4, 196. 
two lemon, 189. 
vermicelli, 196. 

No. 2, 197. 
whortleberry, 197. 
Yorkshire, roast beef, 30. 
Fnffs, corn, 165. 

cream, No, 1, 204. 
No. 2, 204. 
filling for, 204. 
German, 205. 
rye, 160. 
Puff paste, 168. 

half, for fruit pies, 169 
English, 170. 
French, 170. 
Punch, milk, 300. 
Quails, 88. 

Queen cake, No. 1, 239. 
No. 2, 239. 
of muffins, 192. 
Queen's cake, 223. 
Quick muffins, 162. 
pudding, 192. 
Quince, marmalade, 21% 

preserved, 267. 
Rabbits and onions, 84. 
Kabbit soup, 15. 
curry, 83. 
en civet, 83. 
fricassee, 83. 



Rabbit, stewed, 84. 

No. 2, 84. 
Ragout of cold beef, 35. 
another, 35. 
knuckle of veal, 66. 
turkey, 72. 
Raised flannel cakes, 158. 
muffins, No. 1, 160. 
No. 2, 160. 
Raisin cake, 222. 

pie, 173. 
Raspberry and currant jelly, 277. 
bounce, 264. 
jam, 271. 
jelly, 277. 
meringue, 208. 
preserved, 268. 
syrup, 265. 
vinegar, 265. 
Red oil, 307. 

to dye, 308. 
Reed birds, 83. 
Remains of cold duck, 85. 
goose, 86. 
Remarks on pastry and puddings, 167 
preserving, &,«., 269. 
Toasting, &e., 29. 
Rennet, prepared, 214. 
Relishes, breakfast, 312. 

tea or supper, 312. 
Rhubarb, stewed, 202. 
tart, 177. 
cream, 199. 
puddings, 199. 
Roast beef, 30. 

with Yorkshire pudding, 
30. 
chicken, 74. 
chine of pork, 68. 
ducks; 85. 
goose, 85. 
Guinea fowls, 83. 
haunch of venison, 87. 
leg of mutton, 45. 
oysters, 64. 
partridges, 81, 88. 
pheasants, 82. 
pigeons, 80. 
pig, 53. 
turkey, 71. 



534 



INDEX. 



Roasting, boiling, Ac, remarks on, 29 
Relishes for tea, 312. 
Remedy for burns, 308. 
colds, 308. 
corns, 309. 
dyspepsia, 302, 303. 
Rennet, prepared, 214. 
Republican calie, 229. 
Rockfish, 19. 
Riee, blanc-mange, 211. 

boiled, 143. 

cake, 231. 

cups, 184. 

dessert of, 201. 

griddle cakes, No. 1, 156. 
No. 2, 156. 
No. 3, 156. 

meringue, 208. 

muffins, 161. 

pTldding, 193. 

waffles, 164. 

water, 300. 
Roley-poley pudding, 193. 
Rolls, breakfast, 151. 

flannel, 163. 

French, 153. 

G-rabam, 154. 

hot, 152. 

Parker House, 153. 

pocket-book, 153. 

potato, No. 1, 154. 
No. 2, 154. 

split, 152. 

very fine, 152. 
Round of beef bouilli, 34. 
salted, 34. 
Rump steak stewed, 39. 
Rusk, 164. 

No. 1, 249. 

No. 2, 249. 

No. 3, 249. 

bread, 250. 

dried, 260. 
Rye bread, 148. 
mush, 301. 
puffs, 160. 
Sago, apple jelly, 283. 

gruel, 297. 
Bitlad, chicken, 104, 

cucumber, 105. 



Salad, lettuce, or head, 105. 

lobster, 103. 

potato, 106. 

tomato, 105. 
Sally Lunn, No. 1, 162. 
No. 2, 162. 
No. 3, 163. 
without yeasty 163. 
Salmi of partridges, 81. 
Salmon, boiled, 19. 
smoked, 27. 
spiced, 22. 
Salsify, boiled, 134. 

fried, No. 1, 130. 
No. 2, 130. 
Salve, for boils, 308. 
Samp, 140. 
Sand tarts, 247. 
Saratoga bread, 148. 
Sauce, anchovy, 118. 

apple, 284. 

Bordeaux, 293. 

brown onion, 142. 

caper, 118. 

celery, 119. 

codfish cakes, 119. 

cold tomato, 292. 

cranberry, 283. 

cream, 122. 

cucumber, 292. 

currant jelly, 122. 

curry, 123. 

custard, 122. 

drawn butter, 117. 

egg, for fish, 117. 

puddings, 121. 

hard, 121. 

horse-radish, 118, 119. 

lemon, 122. 

mint, 119. 

mushroom. No. 1, 118. 
No. 2, 119. 

orange, 122. 

oyster, 117. 

piquante, 123. 

pudding, 121. 

No. 2, 121. 

Soyer's curry, 123. 

tomato, 293. 

turnips in, 132: 



INDEX. 



335 



Snace, white, 118. 

wine, No. 1, 12». 
No. 2, 120. 
No. 3, 120, rich. 
No. 4, 121. 
Sausage, 54. 

No. 2, 54. 
Ravory beef, Fanny S.*s, 41, 
Soald, for, 308. 
Scallopped calf s bead, 62. 
clams, 98. 
lobster, 96. 
potato, 128. 
Scallops, 98. 
Scotch cake. No. 1, 223. 
No. 2, 224. 
Scrambled eggs, 113. 
Scranton sponge-cake, 228. 
Scrapple, 55. 
Sea bass, 20. 
S. E. B.'s cake, 230. 
Sewing-machine oil, to take out, 306. 
Shad, baked, 20. 
broiled, 23. 
potted, 24. 
Shakers' pickles, 290. 
Sheep's kidneys, 49. 
Shells for preserved fruit, 171. 
Shortening, suet, 170. 
Shrub, currant, 264. 
Silk, colored, to remove grease, 306. 
Silver cake. No. 1, 234. 
No. 2, 2.34. 
Sirloin of beef, 32. 
Slap-jacks, 166. 
Smelts, 21. 
Smoked herring, 27. 
salmon, 27. 
tongue, Doiled, 38, 
Snaps, ginger. No. 1, 253. 
No. 2, 254. 
No. 3, 254. 
No. 4, 254. 
No, 6, 254. 
Snow-ball custard, 204. 
flake cake, 232. 
pudding, 193. 
Soap, to make good hard, 307. 
Boda biscuit, 150. 
cake, 233. 



Soda mint, 303. 
Soft gingerbread. No. 1, 250. 
No. 2, 250. 
No, 3, 261. 
No. 4, 251. 
No. 5, 251. 
ginger cake, 252. 
jumbles, 240. 
Soft-shell crabs, 97. 
Souffle, omelette, No. 1, 205. 
No. 2, 205. 
Soup, amber, 11. 

beef. No. 1, 11. 
No. 2, 14. 
black bean, 14. 
calf's head, 9. 

plain, 9,. 
chicken, brown, 11. 
clam, 8. 
green pea, 16. 
gumbo. No. 1, 10. 
No. 2, 10. 
No. 3, 10. 
Julienne, 13. 
knuckle of veal, 12. 
maigre, 16. 
mock turtle, 8. 
mutton, 12. 
Douilles for, 18. 
okra, 18. 
ox tail, 14. 
oyster, No. 1, 7. 
No. 2, 7. 
pepper pot, 13. 
rabbit, 15. 
split pea, 16. 

No. 2, 17. 
tomato, 15. 
vegetable, 17. 
vermicelli, 12. 
Soy, celery, 296. 
Spanish buuns, No. 1, 246. 
No. 2, 246. 
No. 3, 246. 
cream, 214. 
fritters, 207. 
pudding, 193. 
Spare ribs, 54, 
Spiced beef, 36. 

No. 2, 37. 



336 



INDEX. 



Bpiced cautelope, 278. 

peaches, No. 1, 210. 
No. 2. 270. 
whole, 274 
Spinach, 173. 
Bplit pea soup, 16. 

No. 2, 17. 
rolls, 152. 
Sponge cake, No. 3, 228. 
No. 4, 229. 
pudding, 194. 
Tibbie's, 228. 
Soranton, 228. 
ginger cake, 229. 
lemon, 201. 
Spring fruit cream, 199. 

pudding, 199. 
Squabs, pigeons, partridges, or any 

small birds, 298. 
Squapbes, 136. 
Stains from table linen, 306. 
Steamed pudding, 194. 
Steel, rust from, 306. 
Stewed apple for vol-au-vent, 172. 
beef, 32, 33. 
beef's kidney, 40. 
cabbage, 133. 
carrots, 135. 
celery, 139. 
clams, 97. 
ducks, 85 
eela, 23. 
fish, 24. 
bam, 55, 114. 
knuckle of veal, 61, 
leg of mutton, 44. 
lobster, 98. 

neck or shoulder of lamb, 61. 
pears for winter use, 278. 
pigeons, 79. 
pig's feet, 56. 
prunes, 284. 
rabbit, 84. 
rhubarb, 202. 
rock fish, 
sweet corn, 144. 
tomatoes, 141. 
tripe, 43. 
wild ducks, 87. 



Sting of a bee, 308. 
Strawberries, preserved, 270. 
Strawberry shortcakt", 226. 

syrup, 266. 
String beans, 132. 
Stuffed beef, 41. 

beefsteak, 37. 
cucumbers, 135. 
leg of mutton, 45. 
tomatoes, 141. 
Sturgeon, fricasseed, 28. 
roasted, 21, 
spiced, 21. 
Succotash, 142. 
Suet crust, 170. 

pudding, No, 1, 194. 
No. 2, 194. 
No. 3, 195. 
shortening, 170. 
Sugar, clarified, 282. 
Summer, bill of fare for, 316. 

pudding, 195. 
Sweetbreads broiled, 66. 

chicken and, oroq's,107 
fried, 65. 

No, 2. 
for the sick, 299. 
larded, 64, 
par-boiled, 
Btewed, 65. 

with mushrooms, 65 
Syrup, strawberry, 266. 
Table linen, take out fruit stains 30(t 
Tafi'y, 259. 

Tamarind water, 299. 
Tapioca, 302. 

apple. No. 1, 200. 
No. 2, 200. 
fruit, 201. 

pudding. No, 1, 195. 
No. 2, 196. 
No. 3, 196. 
No. 1, 196. 
Tar, to take out, 306. 
Tarts, Brunswick, 176. 
cranberry, 177. 
French, 177. 
rhubarb, 177. 
Tea, 263, 



INDEX. 



337 



Tea cake, 156. 

New York, 247. 
beef, 302. 

biscuit. No. 1, 150. 
No. 2, 151. 
biscuit very fine, 
flaxseed, 302. 
relishes, 312. 
Teapots, to clean, 305. 
Terrapin, beef, 99. 

mock of calf s liver, 101 
Terrapins, No. 1, 99. 
No. 2, 99. 
calf s head, 100. 
chicken, 100. 
Tibbie's sponge-cake, 228. 
Tins, to clean, 305. 
Toast, anchovy, 28. 
buttered, 158. 
cream, 159, 299. 
dry, 159. 
eggs on, 114, 
milk, 159. 
oysters on, 298. 
water, 300. 
Tomatoes baked, 140. 
broiled, 141. 
canned, 282. 
fried, 140. 
preserved, 273. 
stewed, 141. 
stuffed, 141. 
Tomato butter, 278. 
catsup, 296. 

cream gravy, 140. 
pickled, 294. 

green, 294. 
salad, 105. 
sauce, 293. 

cold, 292. 
soup, 15. 
To stew dried apples, 284. 
peaches, 284. 
prunellas, 285. 
Tongue, to boil, 38. 
bouilli, 33. 
Tonic, 310. 
Trifle, 217. 
Tripe, curry of, 68. 

22 



Tripe, stewed, 43. 
Trout, brook, 22. 

lake, 22. 
Turbot a-la-creme, 27. 
Turkey, boiled, 72. 
boned, 73. 
ragout of cold, 72. 
another way, 72. 
roast, 71. 
Turnips, in sauce, 132. 
mashed, 132. 
Vanilla ice-cream, 259. 
Veal, 59. 

eiud ham patties, 70. 
pie, 70. 
baked, 67. 
another way, 6S, 
bewitched, 68. 
blanquette, 63. 
breast of, stuffed, 69. 

plain, 63. 
croquettes, 109, 111. 
curry, 68. 
cutlets, 61. 
fillet of, stuffed, 60. 
forcemeat. 111. 
knuckle of, ragout, 66. 
stewed, 61. 
soup, 12. 
leg of, salted, 69. 
loin of, roasted, 59. 
pie, 62. 
Vegetable soup, 18. 
Velvet cakes, 157. 
oream, 215. 
Venison, haunch of, roasted, 87. 
mutton, 45. 

neck and shoulder of, 88. 
pasty, 88. 
steaks, 88. 
Vermicelli pudding, 196. 

No. 2, 197. 
soup, 12. 
Very fine biscuit, 149. 

rusk, 249. 
Vol-au-vent, No. 1, 171. 
No. 2, 172. 
stewed apple for, 172. 
Waffles, very fine. No. 1, 163. 



338 



INDEX. 



Waffles, No. 2, 163. 
No. 3, 163. 
rice, 164. 
with yeast, 164. 
Wa.Dut cakes, 241. 
catsup, 295. 
pickled. No. 1, 291. 
No. 2, 291. 
W ashin^ton cake, 238. 

pie, 175. 
Water, arrowroot, 299. 
ice, orauge, 261, 
muffins, 162. 
rice, 300. 
tamarind, 299. 
toast, 309. ■ 
Weights and measures, 314. 
Wbeatlets, 160. 
Whey, wine, 301. 
Whips, 215. 

White almond cake, 232. 
cup-cake, 232. 
fricassee, 75. 
icing, 257. 
Mountain cake, 2S8. 
potatoes, 125. 



White sauce, 118. 
Whortleberry cake, 227. 

pudding, 197 
Wild ducks, stewed, 87. 
Wine cream, 215. 
currant, 264. 
jelly, 216. 
sauce, 120. 

No. 2, 120. 
No. 3, 120. 
No. 4, 121. 
whey, 301. 
Wisconsin cakes, 158. 
Yeast, 145. 

No. 2, 145. 
dried, 145. 
Yellow cucumbers, pickled, 290. 
■ to dye, 307. 
tomato preserves, 273. 
Yorkshire pudding,roast beef with, 30. 
Welsh rarebit, 112. 
West Philadelphia cake, 233. 
Winter pies, fruit without sugar, 281. 

grapes for, 279. 
Woodcock, 82. 



THE ENt. 



