ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




AT 

Cornell UNivERsrrY 



Cornell University Library 
UC 715.W5P24 



On the Issue of a spirit ration during t 




3 1924 014 519 783 



Cornell University 
Library 



The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924014519783 



ON THE 



ISSUE OF A SPIRIT EATION 



BUBING THE 



ASHANTI CAMPAIGN OF 1874 



ON THE 



ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 



BUEINa THE 



ASHANTI CAMPAIGN OF 1874 



TO WHICH ABE ADDED 

TWO APPENDICES 

CONTAINING EXPEBIMBNTS 

TO SHOW THE RELATIVE EFFECTS OP RUM, MEAT EXTRACT 

AND COFFEE, DURING MARCHINO, AND THE USE OF 

OATMEAL DRINK DURING HEAVY LABOUR 






B^ArPARKES, M.D., F.R.S. 

FBLLOW^OP THB BOTAL COLLBCS 07 FUTSICIANB 

FKOPBaiOa OP MILITABT BYQIBNB IN THB ARMY MBDICAL BCHOOL ; MEMBER 07 THB GBifBIlAL 

COUNCIL OF MBDICAL BDCTCATION; FBLLOW OP THE SENATE OF TUB UNIVERSITI 

OF lOHDOn ; POHBIGN COBRESFiiKDING MEMBER OF THB 

ACADBMY OF MBDICINB UP PKAHCB 




LONDON 
J. & A. CHUECHILL, NEW BUELINQTON STEEET 

^ 1875 



CONTENTS 



PAflB. 

Report on the Issue of a Spirit Ration during the Ashanti 

Campaign ..... . . 1 

Evidence from the 42nd Regiment .... 3 

„ 2nd Battalion Rifle Brigade . . 11 

23rd Welsh Fusiliers . . .13 

„ from various Officers, Non- Commissioned Of&cers 14 

Summary of the Evidence . . . . . .28 



APPENDIX No. 1 

Experiments to show the relative Effect of Rum, Meat Extract, 

and Coffee, during Marching . . . . .39 



APPENDIX No. 2 

Employment of Oatmeal Drink by the Plate-layers of the Great 
Western Railway during a period of excessive Labour 
during the Alteration of Gauge . . . .59 



INTRODUCTION 



The following pages contain a reprint of a Report 
on the issue of spirits during the Ashanti campaign, 
which was written for Sir William M. Muir, K.O.B., 
the Director-General of the Army Medical Depart- 
ment,* and was by him communicated to the 
' Lancet.' 

I have added to it two Appendices as contributions 
towards the answer of a question of high importance, 
not only to soldiers, but to all who are called on to 
make great bodily exertion without the power of 
obtaining the usual food and rest. 

When, as so frequently happens in campaigns, 
soldiers are marching nearly the whole of the day, 
and can obtain their regular food only late in the 
evening, what can be given to lessen the sense of 
great fatigue, and to enable them, not only to continue 
the march, but to be ready for any emergency which 
may arise ? It must be something easily carried, 
and easily prepared and served out, as any long halt 
may be impossible. The usual resort is to a spirit 
ration, and there is no doubt that for a time this 
exerts a reviving effect. But is it the best thing 

* Published in the ' Lancet,' August, 1874. 



Vm INTRODUCTION 

which can be given, and are its advantages without 
alloy ? I think it can be shown that it is not a per- 
fectly reliable aid, and requires, when used at all, to 
be so with a full knowledge of its mode of action. 

The first effect of alcohol, when given in a mode- 
rate dose (for example, what is equal to one fluid 
ounce of absolute alcohol) is reviving, but this effect 
is transient. As shown both in the Report and in 
the first Appendix, the reviving effect goes off after, 
at the utmost, two and a half miles of additional 
march, and sometimes much before this ; then the 
previous languor and sense of exhaustion not only 
return, but are sometimes more intense, and if 
alcohol is again resorted to its effects now are less 
satisfactory. Its reviving power is usually not so 
marked, and its peculiar anaesthetic and narcotizing 
influence can often be distinctly traced. The men 
feel heavy, dull, disinchned to march, and are less 
willing and cheerful. It is clear, then, that alcohol 
is not a very trustworthy aid; for supposing a 
commanding officer, having marched twelve or four- 
teen miles, and desiring to cover ten more miles, 
finds his men weary, and, not being able to halt and 
feed them, orders an issue of spirits of an amount 
sufficient to revive but not to depress. The first 
effect will be good, but in less than an hour his men 
will be as weary as before, or probably more so. If 
he then reissues the spirit within so short a period 
of time it is certain that in the case of many men, 
perhaps the majority, the marching power will be 



INTRODUCTION IX 

lessened. Even the reyiving power of the first issue 
is not always so considerable as might be supposed, 
and, indeed, I have been surprised to find how little 
good effect it has sometimes produced. 

It appears to me, therefore, that spirits, as an issue, 
should be kept for emergencies, as when after- great 
fatigue a sudden but short exertion is required, or, 
when a march being ended, there is great depression 
and failure of the heart's action, such as occurs when 
men have been thoroughly wetted during an ex- 
hausting march. Alcohol given in quantities short 
of producing commencing narcotism (i. e. in quanti- 
ties under 1 to 1-^ fluid ounce of pure alcohol = 2^ 
to 3^ ounces of rum), and especially with hot water, 
appears from the statements given in the Report to 
be very reviving, and if food be taken at the same 
time, or soon afterwards, it seems probable that its 
useful efi^ect would be alone produced. 

To give strength to the men during the march, 
when the usual food cannot be taken, the meat ex- 
tracts and coffee are both better than spirits, as will 
be seen from the experiments in the first Appendix. 
Much discussion has taken place as to the true 
position of meat extract among the foods, but this 
does not concern the point in question. That the 
meat extracts, when given in sufficient quantity (not 
less than half an ounce in water for a single issue), 
are powerfully reviving and sustaining is a matter of 
simple experiment and evidence, and whether it is 
the potash salts or the organic extract they contain 



X INTRODUCTION 

which exerts the sustaining effect is not of moment 
-as far as this practical point is concerned. The first 
Appendix shows how unanimous the soldiers who 
were experimented upon were in assigning a great 
superiority in reviving and sustaining power to the 
meat extract over the spirit. The meat extract can 
also be repeated over and over again without injury, 
indeed with benefit,' while its portability and the 
ease of preparation (for cold water dissolves it almost 
as readily as warm) make it a most convenient issue 
for marches. ^ * 

Coffee, again, is also very reviving during fatigue, 
and has the great advantage of quenching thirst 
much better than the meat extract, but it requires 
to be well made and to be palatable, which is not 
always easy to ensure in forced marches. The well- 
made decoction of at least one ounce of coffee is 
necessary to produce a marked effect, and an equal 
quantity of sugar is also desirable. As in the case 
of the meat extract, this may have to be repeated 
two or three times in a long march. 

When troops ^re called upon to undertake very 
heavy work in camp or entrenchments there is another 
plan, which at one time was frequently used by 
English workmen both in iron and glass works, and 
which is strongly to be recommended. It is the use 
of a drink of thin boiled oatmeal, which sustains in 
an extraordinary degree and also quenches thirst. 
As an illustration of this fact I have been enabled 
by the kindness of Mr Owen, the Engineer in Chief 



INTRODUCTION XI 

of the Great Western Railway, and of Mr Voss and 
Mr Armstrong, two of the Divisional Engineers, 
to give an account in a second Appendix of some 
extremely heavy work lately performed on the Great 
Western Railway during the change from the broad 
to the narrow gauge. It was necessary to take up 
and relay the rails in the shortest possible time, and 
the same men were obliged to be kept at the work 
for many hours. The summer days were chosen, so 
that almost Hterally the ipen worked night and day, 
stopping only for meals and a little sleep. They 
took their ordinary meals and beer with the meals 
if they pleased, but during the long periods of the 
work they were supplied with nothing but a drink 
of oatmeal boiled in water, and beer and spirits were 
prohibited. Bach man had an allowance per diem 
of 1 lb. of oatmeal and f lb. of sugar, and so im- 
portant was this deemed that a man was told off 
specially for every twenty men, and was solely em- 
ployed in boiling* and taking the oatmeal drink to 
the men. This liquid was drunk in large quantities 
and was most highly approved of. The character 
of the work and the temper of the men were much 
better, in the opinion of the engineers, than would 
have been the case if beer or spirits had been issued. 
For marching troops the supply of boiled oatmeal 
would probably be difficult unless there were port- 

* It was found necessary to boil the oatmeal very thoroughly and ^ 
carefully. Horses, during heavy work, are often given meal of some 
kind in water to drink, and with very good effect. 



XU INTRODUCTION 

able kitchens, cooking on the march, or unless thick 
porridge could be carried for subsequent mixing with 
water. But for such works as throwing up earthworks 
and digging entrenchments this plan would be most 
useful. The addition of the sugar is important, as 
it not only renders the oatmeal more palatable, but 
supplies a food which is probably useful for labour. 

By means, then, of the skilled use under different 
circumstances of these four substances — meatextracts, 
oatmeal and sugar, coffee, and alcohol — soldiers can 
be sustained and revived under great exertion, and 
will become competent for the performance of the 
labours which their oflicers may demand from them 
and which may .be essential to carry out the plan of 
the general in command. 

In what has been said it is, of course, to be under- 
stood that the use of these substances is not 
intended to take the place of the usual food, but to 
be additional to it. Nothing can ever supply the 
good rations the campaigning soldier ought to have, 
and when it is clearly seen that the food is to the 
animal machine what coal is to the steam engine, and 
that force and work are simply products of food and 
are measured by it, its supply in campaigns will 
receive more study and care than has usually been 
the case. The substances I have named, or others 
which may be proposed to answer the purpose of 
temporary support, are most important in their 
special way, but should aid, and not supersede, the 
ordinary food. 



ON THE 



ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION DURING 
THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN OE 1874. 



In accordance with the desire of the Director- 
General of the Army Medical Department, I brought 
together some evidence I collected on the issue of a 
spirit ration in the late Ashanti campaign. I need 
not refer to the gravity of the question whether, 
under the particular circumstances of the Grold Coast 
campaign, tte issue of rum was desirable or the 
reverse. If the question could be completely 
answered, which is unfortunately not the case, it 
would be of great military importance. 

Sir Garnet Wolseley adopted in this brilliant 
campaign the following plan : — Eum was carried 
with the troops, but was only issued on the recom- 
mendation of the medical regimental ofl&cers during 
the march from the coast to the Prah, and on the 
recommendation of the principal medical officer with 
the forces after the Prah was crossed, "When issued, 
the quantity was half a gill (equal to 2^ fluid ounces), 
and it was given in the evening after the fatigues of 
the day. 

1 



2 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 

In seeking for evidence on the effect of this issue, 
I thought that the most rehable opinions would be 
given by those medical officers who had actually 
marched with their men to Coomassie, and on whom 
the responsibility of the issue was at first thrown ; 
and I therefore applied to Dr Troup, surgeon to the 
42nd Regiment ; to Mr Wiles, surgeon-major of 
the 2nd Batt, Rifle Brigade ; and to Dr Allen N. 
Fox, who marched with the part of the 23rd Regi- 
ment which landed, for information on this point.* 
And I have to thank these gentlemen very cordially 
for the information they have kindly put at my 
disposal. 

The points on which I particularly requested infor- 
mation were as follows : — 1. If any teetotallers were 
with the regiment, how did they compare with their 
comrades in marching power and in resistance to 
malaria ? 2. In the case of the men who were not 
teetotallers, how did the issue or the non-issue of rum 
affect them ? And what was the general conclusion 
as to the desirability, or not, of a rum ration to which 
the history of the march led ? 

I asked, as a matter of course, for the opinion 
of Sir Anthony Home, who, though prevented by 
illness from marching to Coomassie, made all the 
medical arrangements, and who studied with the 
greatest care all the points connected with the pre- 
servation of the health of the men. My friend Dr 
Kynsey, who was with the 1st Field Hospital, has 
also given me some important evidence, and has for- 

* Dr Tegan, who marclied with the Naval Brigade, being on 
Bervice on the coast, I have been unable to obtain his evidence. 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 6 

"warded also the valuable opinion of Surgeon-Major 
Jackson. 

I also thought it desirable to take down the 
evidence of some intelligent non - commissioned 
officers who made the march, and I shall give their 
evidence in their own words. I took the non-com- 
missioned officers whom I found at Netley, and 
who were mentioned to me as intelligent and 
trustworthy. 

The evidence is arranged in the following order : — 
From Dr Troup, 42nd Highlanders. 
„ Mr Wiles, 2nd Batt. Rifle Brigade. 
,, Dr A. N. Fox, 23rd Welsh Fusiliers. 
„ Sir Anthony Home, Deputy Surgeon- 
General. 
„ Dr Kynsey, 1st Field Hospital. 
„ Sergeant-Major Barclay, 42nd Rifles. 
„ Sergeant Kemp, 2nd Batt. Rifle Brigade. 
,, Sergeant Baker, ,, ,, 

5, Sergeant Perren, Army Hospital Corps. 
,, Corporal Rose, „ „ 

„ Corporal Haidley, ,, „ 

After adducing this evidence, I shall venture to 
state the impression it has made upon me. 

Evidence from the 42nd Regiment 

Letter from Dr Troup 

Having instituted inquiries regarding the number 
and health of the teetotallers of the. 42nd Regiment 
while engaged in the late campaign of 1874 to 
Africa, I have compiled the enclosed table. I have 



ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 




"OSS 



6j 






^^ CI a) 



Id 



■t^ a 

r 



dOO 



0I o g 

ft S o 

jT o 5 • e 

S c3 (33 .ja 

^ 2 cS 



> M . 






h .« » 



<i> 






.g!^= 



!h ^ 



55 p 



^^ 



.dsS 



£^ 






=^ig 



li'^ai.gB-^ 



CD ^ cd Oi rf5 • 



O 



1^ 9 



^ 



^ 



I > « 2 "- 

o ay m a 
2^ K-9-53 

■I S'3 p^ 
? - S o s 

.9.2 §"-9 I 
3 fl » 2 

fe d o « ^1 2 

" a 2 S *3 

-a '^^•'^cci'-' 
E-i CQ En 



a « 

.•a fl 

a M 

.3 == 

O (D 

J 2 



■% 



r C3 

a &0 



|o 

o 

m a 

a° 
So 

1^ 
s © 

o 

o a 
-«— 

CO r3 



a, ft §073 p, 

q* £: o a 03 m" 



a o 
o a 
^ O 



Q) 03 43 O 

a a a a 
0000 
!zi 12; ^ ^21 



a 



a 



id 



a 
o 



(33 



^ 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 



5 ^ 01 ft p 
■^ ■« .3 S g'g 

" <B S " 
Sh^ pi 

CfH O 



■2 -I 

<1 g 



^ 




s?. m.2 1=1 » 



S 



o SP-S pja ►^QS-S^§2^feo§S-S-g, -, ^i^SZ^ ivn'a.2 S-rt'S rt 

■ill ti r. 11-^1 ill ^^ ^ti ifs ijiiii^ 

•2 610.2 =s %-M-M a'^n^ 

o g o >;,a a g g 3 




^ £ £ £ £ ^2 ^ £.2 rt fl o a o o o 



ca 

3 ^ = -" = 

0-"Oai 000 00000 



CI5 









CO 
rH 




J3 


10 CO 
rH 


CO 


His 
T-i 


-IS 

CO cq CM Hie* 
rH CO 




CO 

CO 


CO 


^ 


to 

CO 


S 


^ 


l^CO 
CO (M 




HW 

rH 


H|« H|0) 
I>C<1 (MOCO 

(MOQCM oq tM 


05 




rH 


i-H 
rH 


1-1 


CO 
rH 


I—l 


»o 

rH 


CO t~ 


00 

rH 


05 


rH 01 CO 'Jl 



6 ON THE ISSUE OP A SPIUIT RATION 

brouglit together all the information I can, taking 
their previous medical history from the Medical 
History Sheets. This table shows a very favorable 
state of health, even under very adverse circum- 
stances, there having been but little sickness amongst 
them. A large proportion of them have served in 
India, and suffered there from tropical ailments. I 
cannot overlook the fact that, taking the life of the 
soldier under every circumstance, the total abstainer 
or temperate man has the advantage, preserving his 
health better, and performing his duty better, and 
in his older years withstanding chmatic influences 
which, as a younger man, upset him. Some of the 
soldiers recorded in the return have displayed 
wonderful health on the "West Coast of Africa even 
under extreme fatigue and exposure. I hope this 
table may corroborate in some degree the good that 
may be effected by temperance. Most of the men 
recorded are personally known to me. A large pro- 
portion are men of exceptionally good physique, and 
I feel quite sure that, with their good intentions 
and actions, personal good has followed, and a pro- 
portionate advantage to the State. 

My opinion all along has been the same, and our 
little war of 1874 has corroborated it, that while 
men are careful to be temperate they are more 
careful in other respects, and not so open to those 
abuses on the line of march which in many cases 
' open the door for disease, and, in the end, give rise 
to so much mortahty and invaliding in the service. 
This table shows a large proportion of non-com- 
missioned officers and old soldiers, whose experience 



DURING THE ASHANTt CAMPAIGN 7 

is worthy of being recognised — and who have taken 
to teetotalism, some from the want of control, others 
from the opinion that indulgence in alcohol is hurt- 
ful, while Others have taken to it from their great 
susceptibility to its influence, when taken even in 
moderation. The influence and example of such 
men must be all-powerful in regulating the conduct 
of the young men who are drafted into the service, 
a large number of whom, in the 42nd, come from 
country avocations in Scotland, born of respectable 
people, and many of whom on first joining have 
never indulged to any extent in drinking, and some 
of whom have never even smoked. This class of 
recruit, who has never tasted of the dissipation of a 
town life, can at once be recognised on the primary 
inspection, presenting alike a good physique and 
purity of respiratory and circulatory systems, and 
far superior in every particular to the generally 
dissipated townsman, with his bloodshot eye and 
his throbbing and over-excited heart. To such, 
then, coming from his country home to a life so new 
to him, a continuance of temperate habits, aided by 
the example of his superiors, would be fraught with 
the greatest possible advantage both to himself and 
the State. During my service I have often had toH" 
'lament the results of incipient drinking in the young j 
soldier, crime generally commencing with it, and in I 
company, or soon after, disease, the two, as it were, , 
joining hands together; whereas the young and I 
temperate recruit is but seldom seen by the medical 
officer either in confinement or in hospital. It is a 
recognised fact that the Medical History Sheet will 



8 ON THE ISSUE OP A SPIRIT EATION 

tell what the Defaulter Sheet is, and if we trace the 
cause we generally find it to be intemperance. 
While, however, supporting total abstinence, or at 
least abstinence from alcoholic stimulants, as rum, 
&c., as part of the soldier's allowance in ordinary- 
times and under favorable circumstances, I am at 
the same time of opinion that rum has been useftd 
to a certain extent in our Httle warfare, where the 
daily routine of his life has been so altered and 
under exposure to a bad climate, with its depressing 
effects where daily fatigue had to be endured under 
unfavorable influences so foreign to his existence ; 
where moisture and heat, with great exposure to sun 
by day and cold and chilly nights, with but partial 
covering for him, united in producing those depress- 
ing and enervating results which were readily 
seen in all. I think the experience of a large num- 
ber of medical officers engaged during the expedition 
would bear me out, provided precautions were 
taken to give the rum at a proper time, when the 
system had supported its calls, and after the fatigues 
of the day ; for while care - and abstinence was 
necessary during the heat of the day, I am con- 
vinced that a little spirit, well diluted, proved 
beneficial, and while aware that the advantage, if it 
may be so called, is only temporary, yet its use 
had a tendency to allay that depressing irritability 
which I found was so liable to upset the best when 
exposed to climatic influences so foreign to his 
nature. 

I hope I have not overstretched the point, but my 
experience led me to justify the issue of rum. 



DrEING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 9 

When first we landed in Africa it was ordered that 
rum was only to be issued under exceptional cir- 
cumstances of exposure and fatigue, an order which 
held good as far as the river Prah, up to which 
point on our journey rum was only occasionally 
recommended. After this, however, when we crossed 
into the enemy's territory, and we left many com- 
forts behind, and of necessity more exposed, rum 
was, as a rule, daily issued, given after the evening 
meal, and in a diluted state, and with the precaution 
that each man should receive his allowance at the 
tub, to prevent those refusing it giving it to their 
comrades. On one occasion only I recommended 
an issue of hot rum in the case of a party left behind 
marching late in the day, and missing their way, 
and not reaching camp till nearly 10 p.m. In this 
instance I think an allowance of rum and hot 
water, with cocoa afterwards, proved beneficial, 
enabling the party to march with us next morning 
at an early hour, and with a very fatiguing march 
before us. One thing especially struck me. I 
happened to be near the place of issue of rum the 
first occasion it was given. I observed many of 
the young soldiers taking only about half their 
allowance, others refusing, while all the older 
soldiers from fifteen to sixteen years' service looked 
as if they would be none the worse of another, after 
being particularly careful to have their allowance in 
full. A remark made by a staff officer engaged in 
the Red River expedition was very suggestive (on 
this occasion rum was not issued). He said, " We 
lived on the climate then, but here the climate lives 



10 ON THE ISSUE 01" A SPIEIT RATION 

on US." IsFo truer remark could have been made, 
for, on all alike, officer and soldier, the climate was 
telling. The system looked as if it were undergoing 
a gradual decay ; the excessive amount of cutaneous 
perspiration and the great loss of muscular vigour 
caused a blanched and anemic appearance. In 
many cases an unusual depression of spirits followed 
as well as irritability of temper. This I noted 
more especially after the excitement was over, and 
when we had to march over old ground with but 
little change of scenery, passing through forest and 
jungle of a very monotonous character, and in our 
journey through which we were unable to get a 
glimpse of the horizon, I may say from Cape Coast 
Castle to Coomassie. Regarding my experience of 
the use of stimulants among the officers : one officer 
was teetotal — a young officer, who suffered once or 
twice from fever of a mUd character, but who went 
all the way and marched regularly with his com- 
pany ; a few other officers were very abstemious, 
drinking only the lighter clarets — one of them a 
very young officer. These also stood the climate 
well ; but that blanched and anaemic appearance 
presented itself, and, although performing their 
duty, evidently making an effort to do so — their 
young and undeveloped systems struggling with 
the climate. The majority of the officers preferred 
the use of stimulants in moderation, and then after 
the fatigues of the day, and taken with and after 
the evening meal. I may mention the case of my 
little mess, consisting of the officer in command, 
the quartermaster, and luyself. We thus used 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 11 

stimulants witli and after our dinner meal. "We all 
three marcted to Ooomassie and back; never felt 
sick or sorry, althougli as staff we had many calls 
on us day and night, and I am of the three the only 
one who has suffered, having been attacked with 
remittent fever on my landing in England, but this 
happily passed off in four days under the daily use 
of quinine in small doses. 

(Signed) B. W. Teottp, M.B., 

8v/rgeon, 4!^d Boyal Highland Begimewt 
{"TheBlaoTc Watch"). 
Portsmouth, May Sth, 1874. 



Evidence feom the 2nd Batt. Rifle Brigade 
Letter from Surgeon-Major Wiles 

Regarding Paragraph 1 : — The 2nd Rifle Brigade 
seem never to have had many teetotallers in their 
ranks. Prior to leaving Ireland for the West 
Coast there were 34 ; these diminished on going on 
board to one sergeant and four men, who continued 
in their principles during the campaign. Only one 
of these five suffered from sickness whilst in 
the country ; another had an attack of fever on 
board ship. They all did their marching well, 
and looked as well as, if not better than, the other 
men. 

Regarding No. 2 : — On commencing the march up 
country the order was that no spirit ration should 
be given unless on express recommendation of the 
regimental surgeon. Whilst on the march I did not 
see any indication for giving it, and only gave it 



12 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIEIT RATION 

about three times up to tlie arrival at Prahsu. At 
Barraco, where we were halted for some time (ten 
days), the men suffered from diarrhoea and febricula. 
I thought the issue of a ration here perhaps might 
do good, so gave it once or twice ; but finding that 
the result was unsatisfactory, there being more 
cases the next day, I stopped its issue. (This sick- 
ness I considered to be owing to the disturbance of 
surface soil.) On arriving at Prahsu its issue was 
taken out of the hands of the regimental surgeon by 
recommendation, I believe, of the principal medical 
ofl&cer, and it was afterwards given nearly every 
day, or at all events whenever it could be obtained, 
which was nearly every day. It was generally 
given, by my recommendation, in the evening ; but 
one morning, as it had not arrived the previous 
evening, it was given at 5 a.m. I considered at the 
time, and on thinking it over am now more strongly 
of opinion, that its issue during the expedition, 
instead of being beneficial, only made the men more 
susceptible to the malarious poison and to affections 
of the bowels. Of course this is only an individual 
opinion, but it is an unprejudiced one, although I 
am far from being a follower of teetotal principles. 
My opinion regarding its use in West Africa was so 
strong that, personally, I did not take any stimu- 
lant of any kind during the whole period I was in 
"West Africa, and during that time I never felt 
better, and had no sickness of any kind, and 
marched the whole way up and down, besides doing 
some amount of hard work. My experience (derived 
from active service in the Crimea, India, and China) 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 13 

is very much against its use on active service, as I 
think its use renders men especially liable to dysen- 
tery and camp diarrhoea, and I think it was shown 
to have that tendency especially in such a climate 
as the West Coast of Africa. Regarding the men's 
feelings, I did not find that they missed its not being 
issued except when they came amongst other corps 
who were getting it. They cared more for the tea 
and lime-juice, with which they filled their bottles 
for the day's march. 

Although so strongly against the issue of spirits, 
I am very strongly in favour of supplying the men 
with their pint of malt liquor daily when practicable, 
as I have seen that of great good and especially so 
on board transports. 

(Signed) J. Wiles, Surgeon-Major. 

Winoliester, May 29th, 1874. 



Evidence peom the 23ed Welsh Fusilibes 
Letter from Dr Allen Nesbit Fox 

I regret I can furnish very poor information on 
the subject of your communication. I only joined 
the 23rd after their arrival at the Prah. They were 
then about 120 strong, and, as well as I remember, 
none were teetotallers ; all took their ration of rum 
in the evening. This was first issued to them at a 
station called Yancoomassie-Fantee, about twenty- 
five miles distant from the Coast. They were in 
the habit of receiving it daily after sunset up to 
the time I joined them. From the Prah to Coo- 



14 ON THE ISSUE OP A SPIRIT EATION 

massie it was not regularly given, not being obtain- 
able at some of the stations from tbe difficulty of 
transport. Hot tea or cocoa was the substitute. 
The men were always better pleased and more con- 
tented with the spirit than with any other beverage ; 
but I cannot say I remarked any impairment of 
health or difference in their marching from its non- 
issue. Very few fell out on the march up country ; 
those who did, from over-fatigue and debihty, were 
immediately put in a hammock and had a small 
quantity of brandy-and-water. And this was given 
at the different halting places with marked benefit ; 
it appeared to revive and set them up again. I con- 
sider the issue of a spirit ration in the evening, 
after the heat of the day was over, was rather bene- 
ficial to the men than otherwise. Should the issue 
of spirits be deemed advisable, I think a gill per 
man amply sufficient, and the evening the best time 
for giving it. 



Letter from Sir Anthony Home, K.C.B., late Prin- 
cipal Medical Officer on the Gold Coast* 

I wish it were in my power to give you any 
reliable data on the subject you write about. I 
have no deductions from carefully made observations 
to offer, and I hesitate at taking up your time with 

* Dr Mackinnon, O.B., who succeeded Sir Anthony Home as 
principal medical officer, informs me that, " under the circumstances 
of climate, food, and? water during the campaign, he considers that 
the spirit ration was an important addition to the other rations." 



DUEING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 15 

my individual opinions. I do not think that in the 
short period of the Grold Coast expedition obser- 
vations could be made for a sufficient length of time 
on the same men, in sufficient numbers and under 
the same conditions of exposure, to decide the most 
important matter referred to. I doubt, even, 
whether exactness is attainable. In saying this, do 
not think I am deprecating inquiry. Whatever 
answers the painstaking and intelligent medical 
officers named give you, they wiU, I am sure, be 
most trustworthy. But the question is, Can bricks 
be made without straw ? Can a conclusive judg- 
ment be formed without exact observations made ad 
hoc ? 

In the ration I recommended for the Grold Coast I 
included l-64th of a gallon of rum {2\ fluid ounces) 
daily when the men were in the field — i. e., actually 
campaigning. 

The experience of the Red River expedition, that 
men could do very hard work without drink, was 
quite conclusive so far , as that and strictly similar 
expeditions are concerned ; and I had myself, in 
Canada, ample experience to the same efiect. (The 
" lumberers " go into the woods and live there all 
winter ; they sleep in holes dug in the snow, lying 
on spruce branches covered with buffalo robes; 
they work very hard ; and it is an inexorable rule 
that all drinks found in the camp are destroyed.) 
But then the conditions in the Red River expedition 
were so different, so opposite to those on the Grold 
Coast. In the first instance there was an excellent 
climate ; good rations of succulent food, easily 



16 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIEIT RATION 

digested by healthy men doing hard work and 
sleeping soundly ; no sickness present. On the 
Gold Coast there was tough, underfed beef; insipid, 
badly cooked food, difficult to digest, and after a 
time loathed by men who were mostly more or less 
ailing. 

I had noticed in the Crimea, in India, and in New 
Zealand, that the men on campaigns had an abso- 
lute craving for varied diet; that even regular 
topers used to spend money in buying jams, sardines, 
pickles, cheese, &., at the canteens. In fact, the 
men spent their money generally on food of this 
kind when it could be bought ; they also used to 
give willingly 3s. 6d. a bottle for beer. Now, I 
believe if a very varied diet were always issued, the 
men could get on without alcoholic stimulants in 
all climates whatever, tropical as well as temperate ; 
but it is visionary to hope that this can always be 
the case in war. Sutlers do a Httle in this way ; 
Government can do nothing directly. Men cannot 
keep in health on poor, insipid, badly cooked rations. 
Under these circumstances I believe that, after 
their day's worh, rum is desirable (beer and wine 
are impossible of attainment). There is a moment 
in which we may so keep up the system of a man 
tired to death by over-exertion as to bridge over 
the period in which lassitude ends in the beginning 
of disease. Good food will probably do this best, 
but it is rarely at hand when wanted; and even 
if it were, the digestive functions participate in 
the general lassitude, so that neither digestion nor 
assimilation go on sufficiently. At this time a 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 17 

glass of beei' or rum sends the machine on again, 
On the ground of expediency something must be 
said. The soldiers of our generation are accus- 
tomed to stimulants ; stop these suddenly and com- 
pletely on a short arduous campaign in which the 
forebodings of sickness have been incessant, and, if 
they don't fall into disease, you at least fret them, 
when, under the circumstances, the utmost cheerful- 
ness possible is wanted. 

The mai-ines who garrisoned Abracrampa for a 
time had no rum (to which they were accustomed 
in their ration) ; but there were other circum- 
stances, too long to narrate, more potential, to account 
for their anaemic appearance and ill health, than its 
want. 

I send you an extract from one of my reports 
bearing on the subject : — " Eum should only be issued 
on the principle of a restorative after exhausting 
labour, such as an ordinary march in this country 
is. Given at the end of a day's march it will benefit 
— will help to ward off disease {i. e. will sustain 
against the depression in which disease has its 
beginning) ; if given in the morning before a 
march, in the delusive idea of adding to the men's 
strength, it will be simply pernicious. Beer or 
light wine would serve the purpose sought better, 
but they are not to be had. I will only add to 
this, that the quantity should be l-64th of a gallon 
per man daily, given in an equal quantity of 
water." 



18 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 



Personal Experience 

By Surgeon W. E,. Ktnsby, 1st Field Hospital, 
Ashanti Force 

I started for duty on the "West Coast of Africa 
with the idea that total abstinence from all kinds 
of alcoholic beverages was essential to maintain 
health. I met a few total abstainers during the 
campaign. I never attended them professionally, 
but they gave me the impression of being washed 
out in appearance and rather languid in manner. I 
performed the first two marches out of Cape Coast 
Castle without touching spirit of any kind, either 
during or after the march ; the distances were short, 
but I felt considerable fatigue after each. On the 
third march, after getting into camp, I took my first 
spirit ration, and I felt the better for it ; I did not 
feel so much depression, and the sense of fatigue 
became decidedly less after the brandy (about 2^ 
oz.). This third march was longer than either of 
the first two by some four or five miles. First 
march, to Inquapine, five miles ; second march, to 
Acroful, seven miles ; third march, to Tancoo- 
massie, twelve miles. I, of course, must add, that 
I was becoming more accustomed to the road, and 
that, as the saying is, I began to feel my legs more, 
and this may have had something to do with thei 
feeling of less fatigue ; still at the time I put a good 
deal down to the spirit. 

After this I continued to take a small quantity of 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 19 

spirit every day that I could get it, whether in camp 
or on the march. In camp I only took it at dinner 
and in small quantity, or on going to bed at night. 
For one accustomed to take some kind of alcoholic 
fluid at meals it is a serious privation to abstain 
from it ; still I feel certain that I would have been 
better without it in camp. I have formed an 
equally strong opinion, in an opposite direction, as 
to its necessity on the line of march in a climate 
like the Gold Coast. I would give a small ration of 
spirit after each march, either with the dinner or 
immediately after it. I consider that the spirit ' 
ration aided digestion. The food, though good, ! 
required some help, and the spirit, I thought, gave ; 
it. On occasions when I was unable to get any, ' 
the food seemed to me to be longer digesting and . 
to lie like a heavy weight in the stomach. With 
the men, in addition, the issue of a small spirit 
ration after a march makes them more contented and 
cheerful ; this I found on many occasions. 

I made all the marches to the Prah in the after- 
noon, and at first took cold tea on the march and 
hot tea at its conclusion. I could not sleep. I 
found the cold tea most refreshing. In march- 
ing in the early morning this objection to tea would 
not hold good. 

Some of the marches between the Prah and Coo- 
massie were very long, and as we got far up the 
country and near the enemy, although the actual 
length of the march was short, still it extended over 
a great many hours. On a few of these occasions I 
was induced to try, from excessive fatigue, the 



20 ON THE ISSUE OP A SPIEIT RATION 

effect of a little spirit, with tlie following result. 
At first the fatigue seemed to me to be less ; I felt 
decidedly better. But as I marched on, and the 
effects of the spirit disappeared, I felt decidedly 
less able to march, and the sense of fatigue became 
much more intensified, so much so that I never took 
the smallest portion of spirit during a march but I 
regretted doing so, and on all subsequent occasions, 
when I felt fatigued, I took some beef-tea, never 
spirit. 

I used three kinds of spirits : at first brandy, 
then whisky, finally rum. I think the last the 
best. 

Surgeon-Major Jackson, C.B., who was my chief 
in charge of the 1st Field Hospital, writes to me on 
this question of alcohol as follows : 

"I look upon alcohol in some shape as a very 
useful adjunct to the ration, which, from our experi- 
ence (and we were only occasionally restricted to 
,'the bare ration), became tiresome from its sameness. 
In a climate like the West Coast I think men in 
camp ought not to have spirits daily. There is a 
great tendency to hepatic congestion from want of 
exercise, and I believe the spirit would aggravate it. 
It should only be issued after the men have been 
employed on fatigue, or some duty, and then only 
once or twice a week. On the line of march, I 
believe a ration of spirit at bedtime, after a day's 
march, assists digestion and invites a good night's 
sleep. I would never recommend grog to be given 
until the march and the day's work be over ; the 
isolated cases where stimulants are required can be 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 21 

supplied from tlie medical comforts. I believe rum 
to be about the best spirit for issue to the troops." 



BviDBNOB OF NoN- Commissioned Ofpiobes 



Sergeant-Major Barclay, 42nd Regiment. ( Wounded 
at AmoafuT) 

Took very little rum himself; refused it on all 
occasions but two, as he found it did not suit him. 
He thought the country too hot for rum; it 
sharpened the appetite, but he found digestion did 
not. go on so well with it. The men liked the rum, 
but he does not know there was any good reason 
for this. He had often known men have the same 
wish when rum was not required. His own view is 
that it was not needed and was not relished as it 
was in the Crimea. He felt slightly exhausted 
sometimes, but it never occurred to him that a 
stimulant would do good ; on the contrary, he 
thought it would be likely to do harm. Certainly 
never knew harm done by rum not being issued. 
Sir Archibald Alison brought out some bottles of a 
white powder, which eflfervesced when put into 
water. He got hold of a bottle or two and gave it 
to the men, who litied it very much, and found it 
very refreshing. 



22 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 



Sergeant James Kemp, 2nd Battalion, Bifle 
Brigade 

In India eiglit years. While there never took 
spirits. Takes usually two pints of beer every day. 
Marched to C comas sie. There were eighty men in 
his company on starting. About fifty crossed the 
Prah and forty reached Coomassie ; the rest were 
sent back with fever and dysentery. 

Rum was issued on the second day after landing. 
Then there was none for two days ; then one issue ; 
then none. Altogether, had it four or five times 
between the Coast and the Prah. Halted at the 
Prah five or six days. Rum was issued every day. 
Beyond the Prah it was issued about every other 
day. One pint was divided between eight men (2^ 
fluid ounces per head). It was always given 
between six and seven in the evening, and was mixed 
with water or lime-juice and water to which sugar 
was added. 

The marching was usually over by 11.30 a.m. 
He thought it heavy work, and when the marching 
was fifteen or sixteen miles the men found it very 
exhaus.ting. In India he had marched seventeen or 
eighteen miles, and never found it so exhausting. 
He thought the rum ration was decidedly useful; 
when he took it he felt revived — decidedly more so 
than after tea alone. Most certainly, when he had 
had rum the evening before, he marched better 
than when he had had no rum. This was the 
opinion of all the men in his company. When he 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 23 

did not have the rum he felt more " weakly " the 
next day. The amount of rum did not make him 
feel hot or uncomfortable, as it was taken with water 
or lime-juice ; it did not make him feel sleepy. The 
opinion of all his company was in favour of the 
rum ; they all seemed revived by it, and were more 
contented. 

As to quantity, he thought it enough. The 
men were well satisfied with it, and no one wanted 
any more. If more had been issued, he thought the 
men would have been too much affected. 

As to the time, he thought the evening quite the 
best. If given in the morning, it would, in his 
opinion, have made the men heavy for marching. 
In India he had seen men who had taken a little 
spirit in the morning very difficult to get along. 



Sergeant Bakbe, 2nd Battalion, Rifle Brigade 

Made the march to Oomassie ; was wounded at 
the commencement of the last day's fight; had a 
slight touch of fever at the Prah. Half a gill of 
rum {2\ fluid ounces) was issued irregularly as far 
as the Prah ; after that it was usually issued, but 
not every day; it was given in the evening, and 
sometimes mixed with lemon-juice. The longest 
march was eighteen miles ; never felt tired on the 
march. When he took the rum after the day's 
march he felt it did him good ; he felt as if he could 
have gone on again ; it did not make him heavy or 
sleepy. He felt the want of it when he did not have 



24 ON THE ISSUE 01' A SPIRIT RATION 

it. The men generally liked to tave it. It was 
never issued during the march, and he does not 
know how it would have aflfected him if it had been. 
There were very few teetotallers in the regiment ; 
there were a few before they went out, but they gave 
up the pledge. 



Sergeant Perrin, Army Hospital Corps 

A temperate man ; never takes spirits. Usually 
takes one pint of beer every day ; it is very seldom 
that he takes more. He had no sickness on the 
Coast ; the day after embarkation he had fever, and 
was ill for three days ; has been quite well since. 
Made the march to Ooomassie with the 1st Field 
Hospital. He always took the rum ration, which, 
except on one occasion, was issued in the evening. 
He certainly felt revived by it, especially after a 
long march. Can give what he thinks a good 
example of this. It was on the first day's march 
homewards after Ooomassie was burnt. They 
started about half-past 5 a.m., and were greatly 
delayed by swamps ; sometimes the men were march- 
ing through water up to the waist ; during the day 
perhaps they had altogether three miles of this 
marching through water. They did not get to their 
halting-ground until the evening. There was no 
rum ; only tea and biscuit. About 2 in the morning 
the rum arrived, and was served out immediately. 
He felt a great deal better for it ; it took ofi" the 
languor and made him feel warm. The march re- 



DTJEING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 25 

commenced between 6 and 6 o'clock, and was well 
done ; but tben it was shorter and tliere were no 
swamps, so the men were not mucb tired. All the 
men, as far as he knows, thought the rum did 
good ; the quantity was enough. If the rum had 
been given on the march itself it would have done 
no good, only harm. His reason for saying so is 
that on two or three occasions on the march one of 
the doctors gave him a glass of grog ; the effect was 
reviving for a quarter of an hour, and after that he 
felt a great deal more languid than he did before. 
He was so convinced of this that he would have 
refused it had it been offered again. 



Corporal Eose, Army Hospital Corps 

Was with the 1st Field Hospital, and went as far 
as Amoaful. As far as the Prah got rum occasion- 
ally, perhaps three times in seven days. First issue 
at Mansu. Before this had felt no want, nor did 
the men crave after it. From Mansu to Yancoo- 
massie-Ashantee, had no rum ; did not feel the want 
of it. Marched from Yancoomassie to Prahsuin one 
day ; distance said to be sixteen miles, but thinks 
it must have been more. The men (twenty-six in 
number) were almost all knocked up. On arriving 
at Prahsu at 8.30 p.m. they had tea and bread, and 
2|- ounces of rum with cold water. All the men 
seemed to want the rum, and to be the better for it. 
When the men got in they were so exhausted they 
could do nothing but lie down ; they lay for thirty 



26 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 

or forty minutes, and then had their tea and rum. 
After this they seemed greatly revived, moved 
about, and went down to the Prah and bathed, and 
afterwards felt all right. All the men took the 
rum; there were no teetotallers. Is of opinion the 
tea and rest alone would not have done what the 
glass of rum did. The next day the men were out 
early at work cutting bushes, and seemed all well, 
and not fatigued by the previous day's march. 
Stopped at Prahsu a week. Had rum once or 
twice ; the men did not seem to crave after it at all, 
but they were glad to get it. When they got it 
they generally said, " This is no good ; it's not 
enough ; we ought to have some more." It did 
not seem to do much one way or the other. 
After crossing the Prah they got rum {2^ fluid 
ounces) every day ; usually had it about four or 
five in the evening, and took it after tea ; felt well 
after it. 

His opinion is that the rum did him good ; he 
felt revived by it ; he mixed it with a good deal of 
water, and also mixed hme-juice with it. 



Corporal Hindlbt, Army Hospital Corps 

Sixteen years' service. Strong, good health, 
always temperate, never takes spirits ; his custom 
is to take one quart of ale per day, chiefly at dinner, 
and a drop before going to bed. Marched with the 
2nd Field Hospital to Amoaful. Had two rations of 
rum (a ration equal to 2\ fluid ounces) on the way 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 27 

to the Prah, taken in the evening just before going 
to bed. Thought it useful; when there was no 
issue, felt chilly and cold at night; felt warmer 
when he had taken the rum, and slept better ; had 
no doubt about feeling warmer and sleeping better. 
On the next day felt no ill-effects from the rum. 
After crossing the Prah had rum regularly every 
evening. It seemed to suit him very well. He 
always took it just before he went to sleep ; it did 
not increase perspiration. He had a blanket, and 
used to wrap himself up in it, and kept as warm by 
night as by day. On one occasion, while marching 
down with the sick, the rum ration was not issued ; 
he fancied he felt more chilly in the night and the 
next morning on that occasion. 

When marching back from Coomassie with the 
sick, the work was so heavy that he felt dead tired 
at night, and then the rum seemed to revive him a 
little, and he could eat a little. Never had the rum 
while marching ; he does not think it would have 
suited him, because he' supposes it would have 
caused more perspiration. The rum seemed to make 
him sleep better, but not too heavily ; if anybody 
wanted him, and slightly touched him, he could wake 
at once. 

His opinion is that the rum was useful ; he was 
not prejudiced in its favour, as he is not a spirit- 
drinker. The ration seemed small, but certainly 
acted very well. He was personally satisfied with 
it. The best time was certainly in the evening. He 
had no fever on the Coast or since. 

On the Coast, American white rum and Hollands 



23 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT EATION 

and palm wine could be bought, and some of the 
men drank these liquors, but those who did so 
always seemed very wretched the next morning. 



Conclusions peom the foeegoing Bvidencb 

In attempting to sum up a few conclusions from 
this evidence I shall try to distinguish between facts 
and opinions. 

The facts are these : 

I. Entire abstinence from alcohol did not make 
the men who abstained more sickly as a whole, or 
more disposed to malarious fever. This is proved 
by the following figures. In the 42nd Eegiment 
there were 24 teetotallers, and they had 4 cases of 
sickness, as shown in the table ; one of these was 
from fever, one from diarrhoea, one from inflam- 
mation of the lungs, and one from an unstated cause 
which I will call fever. In Captain Brackenbury's 
history of the campaign the admissions of the 42nd 
Regiment are thus given by Dr Mackinnon (vol. ii, 
p. 343) : — Admissions from all causes, 690 per 1000 
of strength ; admissions from fevers, 423 per 1000. 
Calculating the admissions of the teetotallers per 
1000 of strength, we have — admissions from all 
causes, 166; admissions from fevers 83. To put 
this in another form : the actual strength of the 
42nd Eegiment (including teetotallers) was 656 non- 
commissioned officers and men, and they gave 453 
cases of sickness, or there were 2 admissions for 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 29 

every 3 men ; the teetotallers were 24 in number, 
and gave only 4 cases of illness, or one admission 
out of every 6 men. It may safely be concluded 
tliat the teetotallers were not more unhealthy than 
the regiment at large. It is also almost certain 
that they were more healthy ; but here the small 
number of teetotallers makes the calculation more 
uncertain. If the limits of error are calculated out 



by Poisson's rule /^+2 /\/^-^^^) the possible 

range of the total sick of teetotallers per 1000 of 
strength is no less than + 215 ; that is, the error, 
arising from the small number is so great that the 166 
admissions might have been 381 per 1000 ; or there 
might have been no admissions at all. The range of 
error in the case of the non-teetotallers of the regiment 
is + 51 ; and if the error happened to be minus, the 
admissions per 1000 would have been 659 instead of 
710. Even allowing, however, for the error con- 
sequent on the small numbers, the advantage is 
largely on the side of the teetotallers. -If fevers 
alone are taken, the possible error in the teetotal 
calculation is + 160 ; so that instead of 83 cases 
there might have been 242 cases of fever per 1000 
of strength. In the non-teetotal part of the regi- 
ment the possible error is + 56, and the admis- 
sions might have been only 361 per 1000. But even 
here, supposing the numerical error to be entirely 
against the teetotallers and in favour of the non- 
teetotallers, the former would have still a great 
advantage. 

The reason of this advantage is tolerably clear ; 



30 ON THE ISSUE OP A SPIRIT RATION 

the remarkable health enjoyed by the teetotallers in- 
India (as shown by Dr Troup's table), and the 
observation he makes as to then* good physique and 
care of themselves, prove that they benefited on 
the Coast by their previous good conduct and 
superior health ; their advantage was not so much 
in the abstinence at the time from the 2^ ounces of 
rum their comrades had, as in the condition they 
had brought themselves into by long-continued 
good conduct. The table is a singular testimony 
to the general advantage of total abstinence, and 
shows also, to say the least, that the want of the 
spirit ration did no harm to these men on the 
Coast. 

In the Eifle- Brigade there were only five teeto- 
tallers, and the numbers are so small that the calcu- 
lation becomes very uncertain. It is as follows, if 
we suppose the case of sickness alluded to by Mr 
Wiles to be fever, and include the case on board 
ship. 

Admissions per 1000 of strength 





Trom all causes. 


Fevers. 


Regiment . . . 


770 ... 


... 674 


Teetotallers 


400 ... 


... 400 



If a correction is made by Poisson's rule, the 
non-teetotal part of the regiment might have had as 
few as 768 total admissions and 619 fever admis- 
sions per 1000 of strength ; while the teetotallers 
might have had 462 total admissions, all from fever. 
Here, again, the calculation is in favour of the 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 31 

teetotallers, even after every point is given against 
them, and if their greatest possible sickness is con- 
trasted with the least possible sickness of the non- 
abstainers. 

The independent evidence of Surgeon - Major 
Wiles is also in favour of the teetotallers, as he 
thought the spirit ration increased susceptibility to 
the malarious poison and the affection of the bowels, 
The 23rd Regiment had no teetotallers. 

II. The marching powers of the teetotallers of both 
regiments were good, and the evidence of Surgeon- 
Major Wiles as to his own endurance in marching 
is in accordance. The evidence is also against the 
usefulness of rum during marching ; the careful 
trials of Dr Kynsey on himself, and the evidence of 
Sergeant Perrin, show that during marching the 
invigorating effects of alcohol soon went off, and 
were succeeded by increased languor. Although 
none of the other men had an opportunity of deter- 
mining this point (as rum was only issued after 
marching), the remark of Sergeant Kemp as to the 
effect of spirit in India making it difficult to get the 
men along, is corroborative. 

III. The reviving effect of the rum when given at 
the end of the day was strongly spoken to by several 
of the men, and is corroborated by Dr Kynsey. The 
evidence is the more valuable as some of the men 
were unaccustomed to spirits and had no prejudice 
in their favour. 

The testimony is, in fact, quite in accordance 
with physiological knowledge, that under exhaus- 
tion after great exertion alcohol will quicken the 



32 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 

heart and act for the time as a restorative, though it 
may be hurtful or not useful during the actual period 
of exertion. The general feeling of warmth caused 
by alcohol, and the temporary strengthening of the 
heart's action, were also, no doubt, succeeded by a 
slight angesthetic effect, making the sleep rather 
more profound. 

ly . The evidence of one or two of the men is that 
they marched better when rum had been issued on 
the previous evening. Soldiers in general are so dis- 
posed to think that they cannot get on without 
spirits that too much weight must not be given to 
this, but it does not seem unlikely. It has been 
shown that when the amount of alcohol in twenty- 
four hours is not more than 1 fluid ounce (and that 
is about what these men received in the 2-g- fluid 
ounces of rum), the temporary quickening of the 
heart's action is succeeded by a fall to such an 
extent that the mean work of the heart in the 
twenty-four hours is the same whether alcohol 
is taken or not. The amount of rum given to 
these men would not then overwork the heart 
— i. e. would allow time for proper repair, — and the 
better sleep which they appear to have had after it 
would probably be more restorative to the nervous 
system. 

Y. Some of the evidence indicates the greater 
power of digestion given by the rum, and the in- 
creased appetite caused by somewhat changing the 
monotony of the food. 

Such appear to be the main facts brought out by 
the evidence. The opinions (?". e. the conclusions of 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN- 33 

tte different witnesses from facts "which were before 
them, but which others cannot estimate) are rather 
various. While Dr Troup, in spite of his strong 
testimony to the value of abstinence as a rule, is in 
favour of alcohol on the Gold Coast, and Dr Fox, 
Dr Kynsey, and Surgeon-Major Jackson all agree in 
this view, Surgeon-Major Wiles is much opposed to 
rum, though he would have liked a beer ration to 
have been issued. Sir Anthony Home is also in 
favour of beer or wine in preference to rum, but 
considers the latter must be issued under the usual 
circumstances of a campaign. Among the men 
Sergeant-Major Barclay is opposed to the ration; 
the others are in favour- of it. AJl, however, are in 
accord on these points — namely : that the amount of 
the ration (half a gill, or 2^ fluid ounces, in twenty- 
four hours) was sufficient ; that it was given at the 
proper time — viz. after the day's work, and with or 
after the evening meal; and in the proper form — 
viz. diluted and mixed with lime-juice and sugar, or 
put into tea. -These rules are real practical gains 
from this campaign, showing us, at any rate, the 
proper limits of the issue and the best time and form 
in which to give it. 

Let it now be admitted that the Gold Coast cam- 
paign has at any rate proved that the rum ration 
should not be given in greater quantities than 2^ 
fluid ounces (one eighth of a pint) per man daily 
(since this amount did all we can expect from it) ; 
and that the time for giving it is, as a rule, 
not before or during, but after a march. 

3 



34 ON THE ISSUE OF A SPIRIT RATION 

Then recurs the question already stated : Was the 
rum ration really necessary ? did it do good ? did it 
do harm ? 

Most persons who have read the foregoiug evi- 
dence will probably agree with Sir Anthony Home 
that the experience of the Gold Coast campaign is 
not sufficiently large or accurate to enable us to 
give a decision on a really scientific basis, and that 
all that can be said is that the evidence from the 29 
teetotallers in the 42nd Regiment and Rifle Brigade 
proves that it was not a necessity, while the other 
evidence shows that under special circumstances it 
produced effects which we must consider to have 
been useful. And all will no doubt agree that Sir 
Garnet Wolseley acted wisely not only in his judg- 
ment of the quantity and time, but also in making it 
an extra issue, to be given when deemed expedient 
by those best able to appreciate the condition of the 
men and the circumstances under which they were 
placed. 

But it cannot be doubted that' among many of the 
officers engaged in the Gold Coast campaign, and 
among the newspaper correspondents, a somewhat 
different opinion is held. The evidence which has 
been brought forward of late years to show that 
armies have made the greatest exertions and have 
gone through the severest hardships without spirits, 
and have even been the better for the abstinence, 
and especially the wonderful inarch made by Sir 
Garnet "Wolseley in the Red River expedition, had 
produced a general belief that spirits were in all 
cases hurtful, or at any rate unnecessary, on service. 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 35 

Many of tte officers in the expedition from the Gold 
Coast returned with their faith in this doctrine 
much shaken. They found themselves in a chmate 
which is enervating and exhausting in the highest 
degree, in which exertion is most difficult, and every 
feeling seems to crave for a stimulant.* It seemed 
to many as if alcohol were the only thing which coilld 
enable them to do their work. 

It is not only a miKtary but a physiological question 
of the highest interest, whether this desire for a 
stimulant felt by some officers ought to have been 
indulged. Alcohol would no doubt exert its usual 
effect. It would quicken the heart, and restore for 
the time the failing circulation ; it would perhaps 
increase the perspiration ; it would not increase, it 
might even slightly lessen, the temperature of the 
body, though so large a quantity is necessary for 
this that this effect cannot be reckoned upon. It 
might, when taken with food, increase the appetite 
and digestive power, and thus aid the restoration of 
the tissues. All this may be admitted, and when 
alcohol was taken within the limits of moderation 
(which the ration was), and in the way and at the 

* This arises probably not so mucb from the heat of the climate 
(at Cape Coast Castle, in December and January, the mean shade 
temperature at the hottest time of the day is often only 84° or 85°), 
but from the great amount of moisture in the air. On the Coast the 
mean difference between the dry and wet bulb is only 2*5°, and in 
the interior the air is often quite saturated. Consequently, the 
perspiration from the surface of the body is not carried off. The 
slightest exertion bathes the body in perspiration; this is not 
because more perspiration is produced, but because less is evapo- 
rated. The heat of the body therefore rises, and the sense of exhaus- 
tion and fatigue produced by this condition is extreme. 



36 ON THE ISSUE OP i. SPIRIT RATION 

time pointed out by Drs Troup and Kynsey in their 
evidence, it can, I think, hardly be denied that it 
was useful to many men. But it cannot be for a 
moment admitted that the craving for stimulants 
was a proof of their necessity. The exhaustion felt 
on the Gold Coast was the consequence of physical 
conditions which nothing could alter. The effect of 
alcohol would have only temporarily relieved it, and, 
as pointed out by two witnesses, the subsequent 
feeling of languor would have been greater than 
before, and a renewed recourse to alcohol would 
have been necessary. The languor and exhaustion 
showed that the climate was not fitted for Euro- 
peans, but all we know of the physiological effects 
of alcohol and all the evidence of tropical service 
prove that under such conditions alcohol is not the 
remedy, but is the most faithless of helps. It could 
not do what is here demanded from it, and belief in 
it has led to innumerable deaths. 

If alcohol was useful on the Coast, and I do not 
deny that under certain conditions it was so, it is 
most important that its issue should be based on the 
right grounds. These are shown, I think, in the 
evidence I have now brought forward, which has 
been collected impartially and without any attempt 
at selection. It agrees with what is known of the 
physiological action of alcohol, and it may truly be 
said that the effects stated in the foregoing evi- 
dence might have been confidently predicted. 

One more remark of a practical kind may perhaps 
be allowed. The reviving effect produced by alcohol 
after great fatigue, and the power thus temporarily 



DURING THE ASHANTI CAMPAIGN 37 

obtained of continuing the exertion if necessary, is 
a valuable quality well illustrated by some of the 
evidence. But this gain is only for a time, and is 
followed by increased exhaustion; for, to use the 
common phrase, alcohol is a stimulant merely, and 
not a renovator, in the sense of supplying materials 
to exhausted tissues. This can only be done by 
food and rest; and as in the Ashanti campaign 
the men had food before or with, and rest after, the 
rum ration, and as the quantity of rum was within 
the limits of moderation, the reviving effect was 
felt without the subsequent depression. But no use 
appears to have been made in the Ashanti cam- 
paign of one of the most valuable foods for periods 
of great exertion which modern science has given 
us. I refer to the meat extracts, which also remove 
the sense of fatigue, but do so, in part at least, by 
supplying directly to the tired muscles the materials 
they want — viz. the special potash salts, and pro- 
bably animal extractive matters, which have a 
reviving influence on the exhausted nerves. From 
their small bulk and consequent ease of carriage, 
their form, which permits of ready distribution, and 
their facility of digestion and absorption when 
mixed with either hot or cold water, they are at 
present the most available renovators we know of 
after great fatigue. They more than replace alcohol, 
or, if thought desirable, they can be used with it, 
and in this case will probably be found to lessen the 
increased depression which ensues when the effect of 
alcohol passes off. I have thought it not imma- 
terial to call attention to these valuable agents, 



38 ON THE ISSUE OP A SPIRIT RATION, ETC. 

\^wliioli seem especially adapted for use in modern 
■war, and which, without superseding the use of the 
usual food, or doing away with the necessity of rest, 
yet giye to the modern commander additional means 
, of increasing the marching and enduring power of 
his troops. 



APPENDIX I 



EXPERIMENTS TO SHOW THE RELATIVE REVIVING 

EFFECTS OF RUM, EXTRACT OP MEAT, AND 

COFFEE, DURING MARCHING 



In order to show the correctness of the statement 
made in the last paragraph of the foregoing report, 
the following experiments are given. 

Three intelligent and trustworthy soldiers, who 
knew the nature of the experiments, made the fol- 
lowing marches in heavy marching order, carrying 
the rifle and sword bayonet, the valise equipment 
with service kit, forty rounds of ammunition, great 
coat, water bottle (full) and haversac (empty) ; in 
all, including the clothes on person, there was a total 
weight of 51 lbs. avoirdupois. 

Having breakfasted at six o'alock, they started at 
seven and marched thirteen and a quarter miles 
without a halt or refreshment of any kind. This 
march was accomplished in four hours and twenty 
minutes. After resting for an hour, during which 
time their pulses and temperatures. were taken, they 
received either rum or extract of meat or coffee, with 



40 BUM, MEAT BXTEACT, AND COFFEK 

in each case ten fluid ounces of water. They then 
marched four and a quarter miles, making seventeen 
and a half in all, and then after another halt had a 
second allowance of the same substance, with the same 
quantity of water. A march of three miles was then 
made, making twenty and a half miles. The rate of 
march was 3' 2 miles per hour ; the time taken was 
eight hours and a half, of which two were occupied 
with halts. At the end of the last march the men had 
their dinner. The rations were the usual rations, 
and the same amount of food was taken daily. The 
marches were continued for six days, so that each 
man received rum on two days (but not on successive 
days), meat extract on two days, and coffee on two 
days. 

The quantities taken were two and a half fluid 
ounces of rum before the second and third sections of 
the march, making five fluid ounces daily. This parti- 
cular spirit, and this amount, were selected because 
rum is the issue to soldiers and because two and a 
half ounces was the Ashanti ration. As the rum 
contained forty per cent, of absolute alcohol by mea- 

1 sure, the total quantity of five fluid ounces contained 
two fluid ounces of alcohol, or one fluid ounce 
each time. This amount is the maximum limit of 
moderation as determined by the late Dr Anstie 
and myself. I was certain from previous experi- 
ments that anything over this would narcotize in 

^some degree and lessen marching power. The rum 
was mixed with eight and a half fluid ounces of 
water, and a little sugar was added. The extract 
of meat was obtained from Liebig's Company, amd 



BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 41 

was given in quantities of half an ounce in ten 
fluid ounces of water before the second and third 
sections of the march, so that one ounce was taken 
daily. 

The coffee was boiled ; half an ounce was used 
for ten ounces of water, so that in aU one ounce 
of coffee was used daily ; half an ounce of sugar 
was added to each quantity, or one ounce of 
sugar daily. In order to judge of the relative 
effects of these substances I relied especially on the 
statements of the men. I was fortunate in being able 
to get Sergeant-Major Don as one of the marchers ; 
he volunteered for this work, as he felt desirous of 
practically determining for himself the relative effects 
of these articles. I have complete confidence in his 
honesty and impartiality. I may say the same of 
the other men (Privates Holz and Hutchins). I ex- 
plained to them the question at issue, and they fully 
understood that they were to be perfectly inde- 
pendent in their opinions, and that what was wanted 
was simply an honest statement of how far they 
felt more able to march after rum, meat extract, or 
coffee. 

In order to avoid all fallacies the men took no 
water except what I gave them ; in aU cases the 
fluid was at a temperature of 100° Fahr., so as to 
avoid the influence of either cold or heat. 

The following statements are given in the men's 
own words. 



42 RUM, MEAT EXTKACT, AND COFFEE 



Effects of Rum 

(2^ fluid ounces in 8^ ounces of water at 12.30 after 
thirteen and a quarter miles, and again at 2.30 after 
four and a quarter miles more) 

Seegbant-Majoe Don took mm on the second and 
fifth days. 

On the second day he was not well on starting in 
the morning for the thirteen miles' march ; he had 
slept badly ; his pulse at the end of the march was 
extremely quick, feeble, and irregular every tweHth 
or sixteenth beat. It becomes slower and regular 
after lying down for an hour. After the rum at 
12.30 he felt a decided reviving effect ; to use his 
own phrase, it gave him a spurt ; this was not last- 
ing; towards the end of the second part of the 
march he felt that the good effects - were over. He 
thought the reviving effect inferior to the coffee 
which he had taken the day before. 

The second dose of rum made him feel slightly 
intoxicated ; as before, he was revived for a time and 
the intoxicating effect was not enough to damage 
his marching power. 

On the fifth day he had rum again ; the first 
quantity, as before, revived him, gave him a sort of 
spurt, and enabled him to march better ; this reviving 
effect lasted for two and a half miles, and then seemed 
to pass off. For the time he certainly marched 
better, though he was quite certain the effect went 
off as stated. It made him feel thirsty. 



BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 43 

The second dose of rum caused slight intoxication, 
as on the former occasion ; there was a little reviving 
power, which soon passed off and left a feeling of 
thirst ; he did not think this second quantity did 
much for him. 

Peivate p. Holz had rum on the first and fourth 
days. On the first day after the first dose felt at first 
much revived; felt easy and marched better; after two 
miles felt thirst and then got weak, and did not 
march so comfortably ; the good effect of the rum 
had passed off. After the second dose he felt it get 
into his head; he was revived and able to march 
very well, but was a little thirsty ; he felt fatigued 
the last part of the march ; it did not make him 
march worse, but did not do much good. On the 
fourth day, after the first dose he felt a little intoxi- 
cated ; he was at first revived, but after about one 
mile and a half this effect went off" and he felt 
just as tired as before ; he could have marched as 
well without it. 

After the second dose he felt rather tipsy, and his 
head was heavy on returning from the march ; at 
first it took away all feeling of weakness, but in a 
mile he felt as fatigued as before ; he does not think 
it made him march worse, but he could have marched 
just as well without it. It made him feel thirsty. 

Private W. Hutchins had rum on the third and 
sixth days. On the third day he did not think the 
rum did him any good ; just at starting and for 
about half a mile he felt revived; then this effect 



44 BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 

went off ; lie was thirsty and clammy in tlie mouth ; 
he did not feel much good or much harm from it ; 
what good effect there was went ofE very soon. 

After the second dose he felt rather more revived ; 
it caused flushing of the face ; he could not see that 
it gave him power, nor did it take power away, but 
it did not add to it. 

On the sixth day the first dose of rum seemed to 
quicken his appetite and increase his thirst ; for 
about two miles or so felt lighter and revived and as 
if he could have jumped over a five-barred gate with 
all his accoutrements on ; then this effect entirely 
went off and he felt as tired as before ; he did not 
feel more tired, but just as he was before. 

After the second dose he did not feel so lively ; it 
did rouse him a Httle, but this went off very soon ; 
he supposed he had not gone a mUe and a half before 
the effect was gone ; he then felt languid and lazy, 
more so than he felt all along. It flushed him and 
made him thirsty. 



Effects of Extract of Meat 

(Half ounce in ten ounces of water at 12.30 and 

2.30) 

Seegeant-Majoe Don took the meat extract on the 
third and sixth day. 

On the third day after taking the first dose of 
extract he felt as if he had had a meal, and was able 



BUM, MEAT EXTEACT, AND COPPEE 45 

to go on ; it seemed to give him strength ; he felt a 
little tired as he came back from the march and had 
a Httle thirst ; he thought the meat more sustaining 
than the coffee, but it did not quench thirst so well ; 
the meat gave him more power than the spirit, and this 
effect was more lasting ; the influence of the spirit 
soon went, that of the meat did not do so. Had a 
little palpitation coming back. After the second 
dose at 2.30 felt better and sustained by the meat 
extract ; had no doubt about this reviving effect ; 
there was a good deal of thirst ; no palpitation. 

On the sixth day the meat produced the same 
effect as before ; it seemed to give him strength, he 
felt as if he had had a meal ; the reviving effect was 
lasting ; there was some thirst. After the second 
dose the same effect was produced. 

Peivate p. Holz had meat extract on the second 
and fourth days. On the second day he did the first 
thirteen miles pretty well, but felt the ascent of A low 
hill one mile from Netley, and on coming up some 
steps to the room where his pulse was to be taken 
he felt giddy; on entering the room he looked pale and 
exhausted, and while standing to have his pulse taken 
he fainted. It was a question whether he ought to 
march again that day, but as his pulse (which had been 
extremely weak and almost imperceptible) recovered 
at once on lying down, it was decided to continue 
the experiments. At 12.30, after an hour's rest, he 
had the first half of the extract of meat, the effect of 
which was noticd with interest. He felt revived 
and stronger for the extract ; had no doubt of this ; 



46 RUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 

did the four miles' march, very well; no giddiness 
coming up stairs ; lie felt a little faint when standing 
to have his pulse taken, but nothing like the first 
time. Comparing the extract with the rum which he 
had taken the day before, he was certain he felt 
much better from the extract ; with the rum he 
felt better at the beginning of the march, but not 
afterwards ; with the meat extract he felt revived, 
and this continued all the march ; it was different 
from the rum, and was most decidedly far better. 

At 2.30 he had the second half of the extract; 
he started feeling strong and well ; he did the three- 
mile march well, and marched quite strongly ; he 
did not feel at all faint, and felt the extract more 
strengthening and reviving than the rum. 

On the fifth day on coming in after the thirteen- 
mile march he felt weak ; at 12.30 he had the extract ; 
he felt greatly revived, and at the end of the four- 
mile march was not so weak as after the thirteen 
miles ; he felt as if he could go on at once, which he 
did not feel before the extract ; he felt a little thirsty, 
but not so much as after the rum ; had no doubt that 
the rum was less strengthening than the extract. 
At 2.30 he had second quantity of extract ; felt much 
revived ; did the march well. 

Private H. Hutohins had meat extract on the 
first and fourth days. After the first dose at 12.30 
felt greatly revived ; did the four miles well, and felt 
no more tired at the end than at the beginning ; no 
thirst, but he had not felt thirsty before ; after the 
second dose felt again much better, and felt more 



RUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 47 

power of going on ; beyond a doubt felt much bene- 
fit from tbe extract. On the fourth day, on coming 
in from the thirteen-mile march, he felt tired and 
hungry ; after the extract at 12.30 felt greatly re- 
vived, and felt as if he had a meal ; marched better ; 
had no doubt about this reviving effect. At 2.30 he 
had the second quantity ; it did him much good, and 
gave him power to go on. 



Effects of Coffee 

(Half an ounce of coffee in ten ounces of water at 12.30 
and 2.30 ; half an ounce of sugar) 

Sergeant-Major Don had coflPee on the first and 
fourth days. On the first day he was unwell during 
the first thirteen miles ; he was giddy and weak, and 
marched badly. After the first issue of coffee at 12.30 
he felt much better ; lost all sense of giddiness, and 
felt that the coffee had a sustaining power ; it re- 
moved his thirst partly, but not wholly. After the 
second dose he again felt better, did the work well, 
and felt as if he could have gone through the work 
again. On the fourth day he felt fatigued when he 
came in after thirteen miles; he found the coffee 
had a most decided effect ; he marched better, and at 
the end of the four miles the good effect had not 
gone off. After the second quantity felt very well, 
marched well, and was revived ; had not the slightest 
doubt that the coffee gave him power to go on. 



48 BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 

Private P. Holz had coffee on the third and sixth 
days. On the third day after the first issue of cojffee 
the thirst was lessened ; he felt at first a little revived, 
but not afterwards, and on the whole felt little effect, 
yet, as compared with the rum, he thought the effect 
of the coffee was better. After the second dose he 
felt a little revived, but the effect was not great ; it 
lessened thirst at first, but not afterwards; it did 
not seem to do much one way or the other. 

On the sixth day the coffee relieved thirst; it 
seemed to revive him a little, but not much ; it did 
not seem to give him strength ; was decidedly much 
inferior to the meat extract, which seemed to give 
him strength. The second quantity of coffee seemed 
to do more good ; it took away thirst ; he did not 
know if it gave him strength, but he felt better. 

Private "W. Hutohins had coffee on the second 
and fifth days. On the second day felt the coffee 
assuage thirst; did not feel otherwise any great 
effect, but thinks he should not have marched so well 
without it. After the second quantity at 2.30 felt 
somewhat revived and better ; thinks the coffee 
decidedly inferior to the meat extract, which seemed 
more reviving and nourishing, and more lasting. 

On the fifth day the coffee had the same effect as 
before ; it quenched thirst, but did not revive him 
much, if at all. After the second quantity the thirst 
was quenched, but the reviving effect was not great. 



RUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 49 



Final Opinion of the Men 

At the end of the experiments the men were ashed to 
state their candid opinion of the relative value of 
these three substances during inarching. 

Sergeant -Majoe Don said — " The meat extract is 
the best to march on ; more strength is given by it ; 
about this I have not the shghtest doubt. After the 
extract I prefer the coffee, and I put the rum last 
for marching, though if a man had to he out all 
night on wet ground it would do good. But for 
marching I do not think it the proper thing. The 
coffee was best for thirst, and also gave me a more 
comfortable feeling than the other two," 

Private P. Holz said — " I prefer the meat extract ; 
in rainy weather the rum might be best, as I found . 
it warmed me more, but for getting along in march- 
ing the extract is the best, it gave me more 
strength. As regards the coffee, I would put it 
before the rum, as the effect of the rum went off in 
two miles, and I felt better after the coffee than after 
the rum." 

Private W. Hutchins said — " I prefer the meat 
extract ; it certainly gave me more strength for 
marching ; it does not put a spurt into you for a few 

4 



50 EUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 

miles, but has a lasting eflfect ; if I were ordered for 
continuous marching, and had my choice, I would 
certainly take the meat extract. The coffee quenched 
thirst, but did not seem to do much or to put any 
spurt into me. But still I prefer the coffee to the 
rum, because it quenched thirst, and also the rum at 
the end of a couple of miles left you as bad as 
before, or even worse, while the coffee had no effect 
of this kind." 

The following tables give the pulse and tempera- 
ture. 

The respirations are not. recorded, for they were 
found to be unaffected. 

The men carried the valise equipment, which 
leaves the chest so free that on no occasion was 
there the least breathlessness or any increase in the 
number of respirations. 

Sergeant-Major Don had not carried a knapsack 
for eight years, and was not very well when the 
marches commenced. The effect on his heart was 
so great (the pulse rising on three days after seven- 
teen miles' march to 160, and even 165, and being 
excessively weak and irregular) that I was nearly 
stopping the experiments. However, the heart 
gradually strengthened in the three last days, and he 
seemed to get into condition, though it was always 
more easily quickened than in the case of the other 
two men who were younger. No decided effect of 
the rum, extract, or coffee can be traced in the 
pulse and temperature ; the exercise seemed to over- 



BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFEEB 



51 








,^ -*=* 


, 43 








s- 


l^sli 






^■?'<?' 


■a 




00 c5o d> 6i 


i 


a-s 


- 3| - 






C2 O^ C^ 02 


s- 




OJ03rH a 
O5<M0O S 


:oo >* 


qocpoJ-^ 


•3 


:<Noo 




t" 62 OS do 


5 

in 


^ 1 


rH 






Oi Oi Oi Oi 


5" 


osc-o.o; 




I-H05D- 


05 05rH-* 


■3 


00<NQOfi 
r-l o 


Oi-it-Sfi 

r-l rH o 


O5C0 t- 
'tH 




(i) 00 05 05 

05 05 05 03 


* 


o 


o 












, -p 


, -p 






S" 


Sfssli 


:^S1 1^353 




05 CpiH(M 


TS 




c)0 do C3 05 


1 


^ ^1 








05 05 05 05 


s? 




§§88 9 


CO lOCO 


-<3< OQ CO 




iH ^05 
rH rH 


5 
g 


do 0500 

05 0300 

iHiH 












a - 


















0) 


0) 






tu 




& 


Qor-oa^ 


03 OCO.O) 


CC* 5^ 




^ 


■^CO'*! 


■a 


oj oq osSfi 

i-l o 


rH CO OSSS 
i-li-H o 


o coa 

iHiH 


^ 


^ 
a 


i?-d50cq 

05 0500 


'" 


O 


o 






rHiH 










s 


l- 




^ 




. 


•< .' V_. ■ J 


- ^ 1 


o 


1 





oo o 


o c 


c 


g 


CQ'S' CO 


T}i a- 


cow 


-p 


^ «o 


M 


C- tH T-i d 

1-lrH iH 


i-isQ Si] 


co'cc 




ra 


t- th cq eo' 

rH 
















~ ^ 


ft " 
















-P M rd 












!3 
-p 
















a 01 o 




























S ■♦a ?3 


K 


























|.s a 
fa «s 


0) 










P4 
















a 




-g 






H 












§ 




1 

a 




1 

53 S 
















1 




"^1 1 


^1 
















1| 1 

..CO ^ a 


1J 1 
a§ e 


So 

^ a§ 


















^-Jg t 




•^g 










•g fl_o & 


o< o K 


&0 






13 " - - 






«rd O 


0) n3 






1 a 
a-s^'g 

(piHoaeo 




J 60 § 


rd 61 


) 






•■g.a "i 


•ll 








>H tl t< -« 


■g'T! -p 


-p" t- 






^ L( 




e2 


1^ s 


hI 


o 

s 

H 


c 


<1 








01 

1 









52 



EUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 



CO 






^ 



-to" 



ho 

<1 



tS5 
O 

M 



£• 


CO -* o S 


t^ -* "* 03 


CO t>-i— ( 




CO-* 


-a 


05I-I l>SB 


ojrtcosta 


00 (33 r- 




i>-cboo 03 


^ 


i-H o 


i-H O 








OS 03 Oi 03 


£ 


o 


o 












^ -tJ 


^ 




« 


^ 


S§5SI§ 


»0 rH OJ li 2 • <M O 




00CO-<S(iO 


'O 




r-dodot- 


1 










03 03 03 03 


s- 


00 (M to 9 


03 oj«5 a 

oocoi> g 


lO 03 o 


■*05 00 


-o 


03CO 00 




OD 00 03 00 


1 


^ rt 


" ll 


T-H 






03 03 03 C3 


£■ 


C3 


:CDO,<D 


eq coD- 


rtOOOO 


T3 


05 rHt-Efi 
iH o 


• ocoSh 

I-H o 


OOrHCO 




00 a)r*r» 

03 03 03 03 


" 


O 


o 












■35 -^ 


-^ 






fe- 




tooco-S Scqcoo 
OCTco § gogi> 

s 




"?"? °* 


-53 




03 03 03 03 












a 






<M 










s- 


^"^oo 3 


!M (NO fl 
00 iMI:~ S 


00 CT03 




CO 00 


•B 


00 t- § 


OOrt CO 


-+3 


00 00 00 00 


"m 


I— 1 




1 


13 

1 


03 03 03 03 






t 


*-' i ,- ^ 


J 




O O 


oo o 


o o c 


g 


c<!'<^ CO 


-* er 


. COU5 i; 


+= 


-* «> 


w 




i-ioi (N 


CO CO a 




t-i-ilM CO 
















s:; 


2 
















-^3 OQ r3 












5 
















i^ i 












^ 
















g 










u 












1 


1 

'E 

a 

1 


a 


a 


1 

1 

CO 

45 






^ 

^ 












o 


ii| 1 

-co ^ a 




=l.a 
















s 


1^ t 


^a 


















2o S 


03 o 


















goq § 


^ a<N 
















t*"" e .& 


& Fl ns 


.g-a 






fen J 








6pg 3 


Spa 


s ^ 






fl-S 






■UTS ffl 

rO to o 




Q 




a « a^ 

o,rH(MCO 




■ti 'M 


■Bl 


4 






h Sh Sh -t; 


■*^ u -*^ 


^ 






S I. 






si g 

H<1 H 









o 



BUM, MEAT EXTRACT^ AND COFfEE 



53 



-t2 



txl ^ 



g> 


00 00 CO Ji 


CO 00 CO S 
I>00CO ^ 






cpr-':D w3 


4 


CO-* t- 


i>-i>-if*i>- 

C5 OS Oi Oi 




IX33CD 




03 


0) 






^ 


& 


« 


« 






''f '^ -^ <M 




00 OS CO o 


0>0"5Sfi 
00 00>O 


:oooo 

• 03 10 


0^ 0^ OS 


Sa 


o 











& 


o CO to S S* 

G0 00CO^43 


gS5S||g§S 




OOOSOOi-H 


S 

^ 


3 
5 


r^l>■l^-6o 

OS 03 05 OS 




<p 


<u 






S" 


00 03 00 1 
00 00>O S 








05 (?^ '^ 1^ 


-a 


CM CO ^ 

t^roco 


OS OS-OS OS 


t>. 


« 


<I> 








5" 


,® 


,0^ 






QOCp CO cp 




CO rH C^SH 
00 03 CO o 

o 


I>05C0 




r^QO CO 53 


i>- i> i^* jf» 

OS OS OS OS 










d 












— fl - 




-§1 

3 M 


-* r-J (M S g K3 t^ 05 :g 

CO 05 CO iS ^ I> OS CO . _ 

3 M <D .9 


dodo D-do 

OS Oi OS OS 




■OJ 


<u 


i^ 












s fl 








v-*-^^ 


*-^ ^— -» 


'-— ' 














^ 


o o o 


000 C 'ca 







CM ^ CO 


-* CO co_ >o S -^ 


^ 10 


M 


I> r-i r-i . Cq 
1-lt-l i-H 


i-i tM ci co" CC 


t^ i 


i:^ t-H cq CO 










1 ^ 
















- e2J £- 
















-ts al r4 










3 
















PI (C p 


























rti -P rJ 


m 
























equipmi 
20 minu 

rt of ma 


<B 
























a 




r4 






a 














a.^ += s 


a 




u 
















g^+f Ph (M 


• iH 

pa 


^ 


a 
















5 2'^ § 




CO 
^1 














Ph ' 


; erect, 
3 miles 
withou 

ment, b 




















20 n 


go 
















goq p 


< a ®^ 














60'-' PI & 


.&fl 'g 


ftcl 




bo 










q 6ofe 3 


&o " 


■3 ^ 




f=l^ 




CT< 




■ s 




aj iTi g 


<s ni 




-gs — 




J- &J0 ^ 


rfl 6D c 


pJ:] &i 


3 


^ a 
a^^-s 

mi-H (MCO 




c3 !iH d -i^ 




•1| 


1 




^ tH ;h -*^ 


-t^" u ■*?' 


-*^ u 




^^ ^, 




s S 


oj c) 


s 




m 




CH HJ += <t> 


OP ^ 0) 


a> ^ 




q-( J^ « « 




0) sS cJh f~^ 


t-'C ti 


;-i q-« 




pq-5 




^<\< Pq 


H<t« pq 


H<j 





54 BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COITEB 

ride all other conditions, and if the heart were 
quickened by the alcohol, this effect had passed off 
during the march. In this man the temperature 
almost invariably rose a little during the march. 

In Private Holz the pulse was much less excited 
than in Sergeant-Major Don ; no decided influence of 
the rum, extract, or coffee can be traced. The tem- 
perature was not at aU .raised by the exercise ; but 
was, if anything, shghtly lowered. 

In Private Hutchins the heart was much less 
affected by the marching; the pulse was always 
perfectly regular and even. This was the case also 
with the temperature. He was, in fact, the strongest 
of the party. 

It may be concluded from these tables that no argu- 
ment for or against rum, meat extract, and coffee 
can be drawn simply from the pulse or temperature ; 
a different mode of experimenting would, in fact, 
have been necessary to show their influence; but 
that could not be done without giving up the special 
object of these trials, which was to note the march- 
ing power of the men. 

These tables are interesting, not only in showing 
the effect of marching on the pulse, but how soon 
the heart in healthy men recovers itself in the re- 
cumbent position. The following table puts this 
very clearly. 



BUM, MEAT EXTEACT, AND OOPEBB 



55 









Si. 






s ■ 

05 










g- 


CO 


■* 


CO 


DO 




S 


d0(M CO 


ojcb T-i 


I>OtJI 


"S 




g 


00 05 05 


t^ t~00 


l>l>-I> 


i 


































"§ 




u 


Oi t* Oi 


-*lOOrH 


iHO-* 


1 






00 00 00 


I>CO t- 


i> i>.r* 


1 






INI^O 


0>05 1>- 


05 -^CD 


■$ 






03 00 cn 


I> CO I>- 


r^co CO 


1 


i 




















Q 










'3 






lOOO -* 


-*CO00 


CO lOCO 






^ 


00 00O3 


OOOOOT 


oot-c- 


g 




















«2 












d 






•CO CD 


•00 CO 


•(M CO 


1 




CO 


:o5 0a 


:i>i> 


• t-QO 


s 

bo 




















1 






•ICO 


:i-ico 


:o 00 




M 


:0 rH 
1-1 l-H 


• GO 00 


• t-co 












coco 






1 


moooc 


OI>I> 


t~Oi-l 


bD 




s 


cocoa; 


O^r^r-i 


00O3 03 


.a 
1 




i-Hl-li- 


r-1 I— ' rH 






i~^ cr 


'^•^r- 


CO 00-* 






1-1 (M CQ 


i-H i-H 05 


00 00 03 


N 






t— t I— 1 I— 


1-1 1-1 




& 












0) 

"d - 














COOJOC 


COi-l<N 


rH lOOO 


a> 






(M (MOJ 


OJ 1— t I— < 


Oi 00 CD 


3 




UJ 


rH rH i-H 


1— 1 r-l rH 




1 


n 












i>(M o: 


^^oa 


COIXJ3 








cq rt cc 


C<J CO CO 


00 00 00 


■s 

'S 






T-H T— 1 r- 


1— 1 1— 1 1— i 






•JOt- 


:co CO 


r'fi CO 


£ 






: CO 1^ 


• OrH 


-Oi 03 








I-H 1- 


1— i iH 




g 












'•B 












1 






• O 1^ 


:oco 


■ 05 iH 








ico^ 


:<M cq 


:o2 00 








T-H I— 


rH r^ 






^ 






















o 












H 










« 












HI 










'^cot-e 


S„ 


EH 

t3 01 




O O 

FL|coi>o 


p^COlr~ o 




H 1— t rH oq 


iH rH CN 


rH M (M 




5 H 


H H 


H n 




■«! S 


H s 


H CD 








= gr^ 




1^ 


S 


« 




m 


(1< 


PM 



56 BUM, MEAT BXTBAOT, AND OOFFBB 

When the pulse had been taken in the erect posi- 
tion after marching, the men took off their equipment 
and lay down for one minute; the fall in the'number of 
the pulse and the recovery of its volume and force 
in so short a time were surprising. 

It will be .seen that Sergeant-Major Don's heart 
fell on one occasion in one minute after lying down 
from 165 to 93, or no less than 72 beats. The 
average fall was 43 beats in one minute. Holz's 
pulse fell in one minute 39 beats on an average, or 
nearly the same. Hutchins' pulse (always slower 
than the others) only fell 16 beats on an average. 
On successive days the regularity of the means in 
each man is remarkable, and shows how really evenly 
(though at different speeds) the heart worked in all 
of them. 

The practical importance of the above table is in 
showing how desirable it is (if the nature of the 
ground allow) to let the men take off their accoutre- 
ments and lie down at the halts. Of course on wet 
ground, or (as so well pointed out by my colleague 
Dr. Maclean) on very hot ground in the tropics, this 
may be improper, but whenever it can be done, even 
ten minutes' rest of this kind will greatly benefit a 
tired heart. 

In summing up the results of these experiments, 
I feel no doubt that it is correct to put the meat 
extract far before the rum and coffee as a reviving 
a^^ent in marches. I think the quantity of one ounce 
in the day was correct. It seemed to satisfy hunger 
and to give strength ; it did not lessen thirst, but on 
common marches the men would, of course, have 



BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND OOPFEE 57 

been permitted to drink water. The men were 
unanimous in their praise of it, and found it far 
more useful than the rum. 

The effect of the rum was as expected, and the 
evidence of these men was quite in accordance with 
the Ashanti experience (of which thej knew nothing), 
that the stimulating effect ~ soon goes off and that 
the weakness and languor then becomes as bad, or 
even worse than before. But I was hardly prepared 
to find it go off in so short a distance as half to two 
and a half miles. It is also evident from the men's 
statement that the second allowance usually began 
to sUghtly narcotize them ; the reviving effect was 
on .several occasions not greater, but was actually 
less than that produced by the first amount. The 
limits of the useful effect of rum were evidently 
reached by one ounce of absolute alcohol, and any 
further amount would, I believe, have made itself 
marked by decided lessening of marching power. 

The effect of the coffee was not so great as I anti- 
cipated, but I attribute this, in part at any rate, to 
the amount of coffee being too small. I gave the/ 
usual ration of one ounce a day, but I am convinced 
that no great good effect will be obtained from iti 
under an issue of two ounces a day, and it must then ! 
also be well made. 

In order not to complicate the experiments, I did 
not try the effect of mixed spirit and meat extract, 
but it is clear that a mixture of the kind would have 
an immediate strong reviving power when men are 
greatly fatigued, and when a sudden and temporary 
effect is demanded, and also that this effect would 



58 BUM, MEAT EXTRACT, AND COFFEE 

continue longer than with spirits alone. But these 
experiments also show that 2^ ounces of rum is the 
limit that should be given for this purpose, and that 
it should be an exceptional issue, while the meat 
extract should be the usual issue. It is, of course, 
to be understood that the meat extract is not in- 
tended to take the place of the ordinary rations, but 
it is to be used in supplement of them, and for a 
special purpose. 



APPENDIX II 



I owe the following interesting accounts of the 
conversion of the gauge on the Great "Western 
Railway (from broad to narrow gauge) to the kind- 
ness of W. J. Owen, Esq., Engineer in Chief of the 
Great "Western Railway, and of J. "W. Armstrong, 
Esq., and Henry Voss, Esq., Divisional Engineers, 
under whose immediate orders the work was done. 
The work was of the heaviest description, lasting 
from seventeen to eighteen hours a day for several 
successive days. It was the greatest work of its 
kind, and nothing exactly like it will ever be done 
again in England. 

Letter from J. "Waed Armstrong, Esq., Divisional 
Engineer, Great "Western Railway 

Conversion of Gauge on the South Wales section of the 
Great Western Railway in 1872 

In answer to your letter, I have great pleasure 
in telling you all I know about the sustaining powers 
of cocoa, coffee, oatmeal, and spirits, to men engaged 
in long- continued and arduous labour. 



60 OATMEAL DUEING WOEK 

In the summer of 1872 I made the engineering 
arrangements and conducted the operation of narrow- 
ing the gauge of the South Wales section of the 
Great Western Railway, from Milford Haven to 
Grange Court Station, near Gloucester, a length, all 
branches included, of about 400 miles of single line. 

The number of men employed was about 1500, and 
the time taken was two weeks nearly. The work done 
was enormous, for the Great Western is one of the 
very few English Hnes whose rails are held down 
by bolts screwed into nuts. All these had to be un- 
screwed and replaced after moving the rail two 
feet, a very different operation to prizing out a 
spike, shifting the rail a few inches; and hammering 
in the spike again. 

As the period of completion was governed by the 
number of large stations and sidings to be dealt with, 
the open main line was manned so as just to keep 
abreast of their progress, and thus the utmost amount 
of exertion was maintained at every point. 

The working day paid for at a fixed rate was nine 
hours, all overtime to be paid for at same rate. 
Very long days were made — in fact, nearly double 
time. 

To illustrate the mode of living, I will take the 

gangs employed on the open main line. These gangs 

numbered about thirty men, and they were housed 

in lodges built along the line, about six miles apart. 

/ They were directed to bring with them the food they 

/ would want for about two weeks, and as a rule they 

I provided cocoa, coffee, sugar, bacon, bread, aad 

■ cheese. 



OATMEAL DURING WOEK 61 

At early dawn water was heated at the lodges 
and breakfast made. That over, a start was made for 
the scene of the day's work. Two men went in 
advance provided with a large iron pot, and oatmeal in 
28 lb. packages. Water being found, a fire-place of / 
stones was soon made and the pot boiled. Oatmeal- 
was then sprinkled into it and added until thin gruel 
was made. As soon as the shout for drink was 
heard, buckets were filled and carried round, small 
tins being used to drink it from. The men soon 
gqt to like it exceedingly, and used it very largely 
to supplement their sohd food. It was the only 
drink taken during the day. I had not a single case 
of drunkenness nor of illness. I have often since 
heard these men speak with great approbation of the 
supporting power of oatmeal drink. 

It will be noticed that the oatmeal was cooked. I 
think it would not have answered nearly so well if 
it had not been. At the same time, it has long been 
common for men labouring at the furnaces in large \ 
iron works to drink cold water and oatmeal. ' 

I will conclude by saying that, as the result of r 
many opportunities for observing the best means 
of keeping up the energies of men undergoing great 
exertion, I am not in favour of spirits. I do not 
say " grog " may not be very desirable when men are 
exposed to cold or are surrounded by depressing cir- 
cumstances while called on to labour hard ; but with 
ordinary surroundings and nothing but the waste of , 
the body to provide for, so far as drinks will do that, i 
I am strongly and decidedly in favour of cocoa, coffee, j 
and oatmeal. ■ I 



62 OATMEAL DUEING WORK 



Letter from Henry Voss, Esq. 

Conversion of Gauge on the Wilts, Somerset, and 
Weymouth District in 1874 

The work to be done consisted in slewing in the 
line from the broad gauge of 7 ft. ^ in. to the nar- 
row gauge of 4 ft. 8^ in. 

All the necessary preparations had been made 
before the slewing was commenced, the ballast hav- 
ing been removed to allow of the timber being slewed, 
and all the bolts and fastening loosened and well 
oiled, so that they might be removed with the 
greatest facility at the time of slewing. 

The down line and sidings on that part of the 
railway which is double — about thirty -five miles — was 
done first; 314 men began this work on the 16th of 
June, and completed it, ready for a narrow-gauge 
engine to go over, on Saturday afternoon, the 20th 
of June. 

The single part of the line and sidings — 114 miles 
in length — was necessarily shut up while the conver- 
sion was going on, and therefore required to be done 
with as Uttle delay as possible ; 1353 men commenced 
this work on the ■19th of June, 1874, and completed 
it, ready for a narrow-gauge engine to go over, on 
Saturday, the 20th June, and on Monday, the 22nd, 
narrow-gauge ti'ains commenced running and the 
ordinary passenger traffic was resumed. 

The men worked from daylight to dark. Lodgings 
were provided for them close to the work, in adjacent 



OATMEAL DURING WOEK 63 

farm-slieds and other buildings, where these could be 
obtained ; where no other lodgings could be found, 
huts were erected, each to hold a gang — twenty men 
— and a ganger. 

Each man was allowed one pound of oatmeal and 
half a pound of sugar per diem, and a man was ap- . 
pointed to cook and serve it out to each gang of , 
twenty-one men. 

The men very much appreciated this drink, and 
had nothing else, no beer or spirits being allowed on 
the work. 

They remained on this part of the line, finishing 
packing it up, until Thursday, the 26th June, when 
they were removed to the Berks and Hants District, 
where they did a similar work, in about the same 
time and under the same regulations. 

There is a strong feeling on the part of the \ 
engineers that the good conduct of the men and / 
the hard work done by them was due to the liberal \ 
supply of oatmeal which they had ; as it not only / 
quenched their thirst, but sustained them and ) 
enabled them to keep on continually working very ) 
hard, from Friday morning at 4 a.m. until Saturday \ 
night at 9 p.m., with very little intermission. \ 

The work from beginning to end of the conver- ) 
sion lasted nearly a fortnight, and the men seemed [ 
to appreciate the oatmeal during the whole time. ( 
The oatmeal supplied the place of water, beer, tea, or / 
coffee. For meals the men had bread and cheese or I 
meat, and in some cases they had beer at night after I 
their work was over, but never on the work. ( 



PEIHTED BY J. B. ADI-AEB, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE. 




i'i . <•■■'. -■■■ ■-■.■■■ ^'i.-\ •■{•^'■■•'•r.'i-:' :•■•:'/.•: 
■} : .-..■■ "- .'■■;■'.'■: ■.■.■■'■■■v*'.!;r. >;',*£..- *uv; 

J -..:.■,. -•. ■ - .';.'. ••.■■■ .h ' !=r£*.Vi 
1 S ■ ■ ■- ." : ■ . ' -f ;"-s.'i^^ 

■j:^-" . ......... ..•:.-■-".- .•• y.fr:-^^-^ 



