Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






•f. 



A . 



MANUAL OF DIET 



t 



•' ; 



A MANUAL 



OF 



DIET IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, 



BY 



THOMAS KING CHAMBERS, 

M.D. OXOK., F.H.C.P. LoKD., 

HONOBART PHYSICIAN TO H.R.H. THB PRINCE OF WALES, CONSULUNO PHYSICIAN 

TO ST. MARY'S AND THB LOCK HOSPITALS, LECTURER ON MEDICINE 

AT ST. MARY'S SCHOOL, CORRESPONDING FELLOW OF 

THB ACADEMY OF MEDICINE, NEW YORK, 

^ ETC. 




LONDON 
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE 

1875 



[All righti rtiirxtd^ 

/5I. Or. 2UI. 



PEEFACE. 



-•o«- 



The aims of this Handbook are purely practical, and 
therefore it has not been thought right to increase its 
size by the addition of the chemical, botanical, and in- 
dustrial learning which rapidly collects round the nucleus 
of every article interesting as an eatable. Space has been 
thus gained for a full discussion of many matters con- 
necting food and drink with the daily current of social 
life, which the position of the Author as a practising 
physician has led him to believe highly important to the 
present and future of our race. 

Thos. K. Chambeks5. 



24 Mount Street, Grosvexor Square : 
January 1, 1875. 



CONTENTS. 



-♦o*- 



PART I. 

GENERAL DIETETICS. 

CHAPTER • PAGE 

I. Theories of Dietetics 3 

II. On t/ie Choice of Food 17 

III. On the Preparation of Food 88 

IV. On Digestion , . . . . 99 

V. NiUntion 123 



PART II. 

SPECIAL DIETETICS. OP HEALTH. 

I. Regimen of Infancy and Motlierhood . . . . 129 

II. Regimen of Childhood and Youth 139 

III. Commercial Life 147 

IV. Literary and Professional Life 151 

V. Noxious Trades 161 

VI. Athletic Training 165 

VII. Hints for Healthy Travellers ia3 



• • • 



viu CONTENTS. 

CHjIPTER pagr 

VIII. EffecU of aimate UU 

IX. Starvation, Poverty , and Fasting 201 

X. The Dedine of Life 217 

XL Alcohol 221 



PART III. 

DIETETICS IN SICKNESS. 

I. Dietetics and Begimen of Acute Fevers .... 207 
11. TJie Diet and Regimen of certain other Inflammatory 

States 273 

III. The Diet and Itegimen of Weak Digestim .281 

IV. Gout and Rheumatism 293 

V. Gravel, Stone, Albuminuria, and Diabetes . 303 
VI. Deficient Evacuation 313 

VII. Nerve Disorders 319 

VIII. Scrofula, Rickets, and Consumption 333 

IX. Disease of Heart and Arteries 341 



Alphabetical Index . . . . 349 



PAET I. 



GENERAL DIETETICS. 



<• 



CHAPTER I. 

THEOBIES OF DIETETICS. 

What is the natural food of ihan ? 

Each animal in a state of natare finds substances suited 
for its nutrition ready to hand, and witKin the grasp of the 
instruments he possesses for their acquisition, And these 
substances seem, generally, the most proper to sustain the 
health and strength. So that it has been not irrationally 
argued, that it would be a useful act of scientific reasoning 
to infer from the structure of the human organs what kind of 
food they are most fitted to appropriate, for this would pro- 
bably prove most conducive to physical well-being. 

When, in pursuit of this reasoning, we come to compare 
man's form with that of other mammalia, his prehensile 
organs — his teeth, his jaws, and his feet and his nails — do not 
seem to fit him for grappling with any of the difficulties which 
the adoption of special kinds of food prepared by nature 
entails. He can neither tear his prey conveniently, nor crack 
many nuts, nor grub roots, nor graze. His digestive viscera, 
in middle life, are too bulky and heavy to qualify him for the 
rapid movements of the carnivora; and they are not long 
enough to extract nounshment from raw vegetables. To 
judge by form and structure, alone, the natural food of an 
adult man must be pronounced to be nothing. 

On the other hand, if we read the laws of man's nature by 
the light of the general consent of the individuals of his race, 

B 2 



4 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

which is the wisest course,^ we shall arrive at the opposite 
conclasion, that his food is everything which any other warm- 
blooded animal can nso as nourishment. If we try to construct 
a universal dietary from the records which each new traveller 
brings home of what he has beheld habitually eaten, we shall 
find very few forms of organic matter, capable of supporting 
mammalian life, which are not appropriated by man also 
to his own use. By selection and preparation he contrives to 
remove such parts and such qualities of the substances pre- 
sented by nature as are noxious to him, and to improve such 
as suit his purpose ; so that as finally swallowed, they are 
more wholesome to him than to the beasts who eat nothing 
else. These lists of possible eatables are most interesting to 
the student of human nature ; they lead to inferences as to the 
action of laws, religions, customs, and associations, in making 
that abominable to one race which is most highly appreciated 
by another, and they are an important part of the arguments 
of those who trace political events and national character to 
physical causes ; but they are not suited to the present volume, 
which will concern itself with the action on individual health 
of food generally accessible in the British market. Reference 
may be occasionally made to a more extended materia aliment 
taria, but it can contribute little to the main arguments pro- 
posed. 

The power by virtue of which man becomes so truly om- 
nivorous is Habit. He can gradually, in time, accustom him- 
self to live on anything containing nourishment, provided he 
be not limited in quantity, nor restricted in facilities for pre- 
paration. The inferior animals could do the same if they 
only knew how to set about it ; for when we bring our reason 
to bear on their lives, we can effect what at first sight seem 
most radical changes in their nature, in respect of food ; and 
we can even induce and perpetuate hereditary forms of body 
suited to the altered circumstances we have brought about. 

* * Consensus omnium nationum lex naturae putanda est.' — Cicero de Legi- 
husy i. 8. 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 5 

Spalla«nzani fonnd that pigeons may be fed on flesH, and eagles 
on bread, by accustoming them to it ; the domestic dog grows 
strong on biscuit, and often suffers in health on being brought , 
back to his native food ; our poultry is more robust, more fertile, 
and apparently happier, for being supplied with meat, fat, or 
soup, and our cats have accommodated themselves to a mixed 
diet^ assimilating their form to that of herbivora, by a con- 
siderable increase in the length of their bowels over those 
owned by their cousins of the mountains. The speechless 
creatures have not the wits to acquire unaided these new 
powers, compulsory education is necessary ; even for such a 
simple process as learning to eat turnips, the lamb requires a 
shepherd to stand over him and forcibly make him chew. 
Man's chief bodily strength depends on his wiUingness to 
submit to the pain of acquiring habits, and on his forcing his 
domestic stock to submit to it, for the sake of a future ad- 
vantage. 

The solvent actions of the juices of the intestinal canal on 
food seem to be the same in quality in all classes of animals, 
and to admit of modification in the proportions of their in- 
gredients according to the diet adopted. Under vegetable 
food the saliva becomes more copious, under meat there is more 
gastric juice. The bile of a grazing ox is more watery than 
that of a man ; the bile of a growing boy (who can digest any 
amount of meat) was found by Gorup-Besanez^ to contain 
nearly double the amount of solid contained in that of an old 
woman (whose age would dispose her to be very little car- 
nivorous). 

This shows the importance of what may be called the 
preparatory or mechanical parts of digestion. The digestive 
solvents can evidently grow equal to all emergencies of the 
chemical acts required of them, and the differences in the 
results of those acts must mainly hang on the mechanical 
condition of the substances presented to them. Fortunate 

> Unterstwhungen uber d, GaUe^ Erlangen, 1846. The relative propor- 
tions of solid matter were 1719 per cent, as against 0*13 per cent. 



6 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

indeed is it that sncli is the case, for the mechanical condition 
of the food is certainly more fully in our power, and more 
easily influenced by our reason, than the chemical solvency of 
the secretions. We can choose, according to its hardness, 
softness, and other external qualities, the sort of victual we 
put in our mouths ; we can prepare it with art, can regujate 
its bulk and the period of taking it ; while the muscles which 
chew it and swallow it are almost entirely under our direction. 
But it is only very indirectly that we can influence the saliva^ 
the gastric and pancreatic juices, and the bile. 

Assuming, then, that man can easily accommodate himself 
to a varied and mixed diet — that he has, as a matter of fact, 
accommodated himself to it — and that, therefore, it will in 
future, as in the past, best suit his requirements — the next 
point of interest is the proportion which its several ingredients 
should bear to one another. 

Physiologists have pointed out that in the preparation 
made for the infant at its entrance into life, and which is a 
striking instance to the faithful mind of a controlling design 
in creation, we have a typical instance of what the All- wise 
considered a suitable dietary. Looking to its qualitative com- 
position, we And milk contains alimentary principles capable 
of separating themselves, and, in fact, habitually separated for 
economical purposes, somewhat in the following proportions : — 

"Water 88 per cent. 

Oleaginous matter (cream, butter) . . . 3 „ 

Nitrogenous matter (cheese and albumen) . 4 „ 

Hydrocarbon (sugar) 4j „ 

Saline matter (phosphate of lime, chloride of 
sodium, iron, &c.) i i» 

This rough average is the best way of stating the facts for 
physiological purposes ; since, as every mother, physician, and 
fanner knows, the proportions vary considerably in difierent 
specimens of even the same species of animal, and are influenced 
by differences in the mode of living. The argument is, that 
there, or thereabouts, may be found the ratio which there 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 7 

should be in onr dietary, in the amounts of the alimentary 
substances of which the above may be taken as representa- 
tives. That is to say that, supposing a man to consume 200 
ozs. of victual daily, the contents should be about — 

6 quarts of water» 

^ a lb. of animal matter, such as cheese, or lean meat, or eggs, 

6 ozs. of fat, oil, or butter, 

9 ozs. of sugar or starch, 

1 oz. of salt, and some small quantity of bone or iron. 

A serious flaw in this argument is that while the dietary is 
prepared for, and truly suits very well, the newly born, we 
have no evidence that either it is intended for, or would suit 
better than another, the adult. The milk of our domestic 
animals so closely resembles that which supported us in infancy, 
that if we carried the reasoning out to its logical consequences, 
we should all be feeding together now at the same manger. 
If the milk represents what the adult ought to make its diet, 
our bull would require only a Httle more butter, and our horse 
only a little less than we do ; our goat would want one-third 
more meaty or nitrogenous matter to be contained in the food 
than ourselves ; and the dog would reqxiire five times the pro- 
portion of flesh that is laid on his master's table to be afforded 
him.* In point of fiict, the life led by the young of all animals 

* The computation of the ingredients of milk is a deduction from the 
following table of M. Boussingault's analysis : — 



Mfllc of 

Woman 

Cow . 

Ass 

Mare . 

Goat . 

Sheep . 

Dog^ . . . 


Water per 

cent. 


Caseine 
and 
Albumen. 


Butter. 


Sugar of 
Milk. 


Salts. 


88-9 
86-6 
903 
90-9 
84-9 
86-5 
77-9 


3-9 
40 
1-9 
3-3 
60 
4-5 
15-8 


2-6 
40 
10 
1-2 
4-2 
4-2 
51 


4-3 
4-8 
6-4 
4-3 
4-4 
50 
4-1 


01 
0-6 
0-4 
0-5 
0-5 
0-7 
10 



8 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

is mncli th^ same, whereas in adult age they differ widely in 
their occapations, and in the demand for the sort of viands 
best adapted to those occupations. 

There is greater promise of profit to the dietician in a 
calculation of the outgoings of matters resulting from the 
wear and tear of the body, reducing these to ultimate elemen- 
tary substances, and thus ascertaining in what proportion to 
one another new supplies of ultimate elementary substances 
are required, merely to replace those consumed. It is obvious 
that the food which supplies the demand most accurately will 
be the most economical in the highest sense. We can measure, 
for example, the carbon and the nitrogen daily thrown off in 
the excretions, and then lay down a rule for the minimum 
quantity of those elements which the daily food must contain 
to keep up the standard weight. If the diet is such as to 
make it necessary to eat too much carbon in order to secure a 
due amount of nitrogen, there is an obvious waste, and the 
digestive viscera are burdened with a useless load. The same 
reckoning can be applied to the lime, sulphur, phosphorus, 
oxygen, and hydrogen, which go towards building up and 
renewing the tissues of the body. The dietary must contain 
these, or the body must waste away by the xmstayed drain of 
destructive assimilation ; and if it contains any notable excess, 
not only is it uneconomical, but niay be pernicious to the 
health. 

Suppose, for instance, a gang of a hundred average 
prisoners to excrete in the shape of breathed air, urine, and 
fsBces, daily 71^ lbs. of carbon and 4J lbs. of nitrogen, which 
is pretty nearly the actual amount of those elements contained 
in the dried solids of the secretions, as estimated in current 
physiological works. Nitrogen and carbon to that extent, at 
least, must be both supplied. Now, if you fed them on bread 
and water alone, it would require at least 380 lbs. of bread 
daily to keep them alive for long ; for it takes that weight to 
yield the 4?^ lbs. of nitrogen daily excreted. But in 380^ lbs. 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 9 

of bnaad there are 128^ lbs. of carbon, which is 67 lbs. above 
the needful qaantity of that snbstance.^ 

If, on the other hand, you replaced the bread by a purely 
animal diet, you would have to find 354 lbs. of lean meat in 
order to give them the needful 71^ lbs. of carbon ; and thus 
there would be wasted 105 lbs. of nitrogen which is contained 
in the meat, over and above the 4J lbs. really required to pre- 
vent loss of weight.* 

In the former case, each man would be eating about 4 lbs. 
of bread, in the latter, 3^ lbs. of meat per diem. If he ate 
less, he would lose his strength. In the former case, there 
would be a quantity of starch, and in the latter, a quantity of 
albuminous matter, which would not be wanted for nutrition, 
and would burden the system with a useless mass very liable 
to decompose and become noxious. 

Now, if a mixed dietary be adopted, 200 lbs. of bread with 
56 lbs. of meat would supply all that is required. Besides 
water, 

200 lbs. of bread contains . . 60 of carbon . . 2 of nitrogen 
60 » meat (including 12^ 
lbs. of fat upon it) .... 12 „ . . 2^ ,, 

72 4J 

Judged by the above standard, it will be clearly seen that 
milk does not represent a typical diet for an adult population, 
the nitrogenous matter being in considerable excess in propor- 
tion to the carbonaceous. This is suitable to the young animal, 
whose main duty consists in growing, that is in appropriating 
an excess of nitrogenous matter to form an addition to the 
body daily, but not to the full-grown, who has to develope 

* Dr. Letheby's Analysis gives 8'1 per cent, of nitrogenous matter to 
bread {Lectures on Foody p. 6). Of this ^ is nitrogen ; Boussingault's 
analysis of gluten giving 14'60 per cent. {Ann, de Chim, et Phys, Ixiii. 229). 
M. Payen makes the proportion of carbon to nitrogen in bread as 30 to 1. 

' The proportion of nitrogen to carbon in albumen is as 1 to 3 J (15*5 to 
63'6 by Mulder's analysis, quoted in Lehmann's Phys. Chemiet i. 343). In 
red meat there is 74 per cent, of water (ditto, iii. 96). 



10 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

force, or its equivalent, heat, by the combnstion of carbon, and 
had rather not go on growing. 

Calculations such as these, applied to the other numerous, 
though less bulky constituents of the body, are invaluable. 
They afford a basis for the administration of food-supply to 
armies, navies, prisons, and other bodies of men dependent 
upon us ; they enable us to detect the causes of wasteful ex- 
penditure, and to distribute limited means in an economical 
fashion. They tell us why nations which, voluntarily or in- 
voluntarily, become dependent on one kind of food for sub- 
sistence can never be wealthy, for they devour and waste their 
sabstance ; and they teach statesmen how to avoid those ruin- 
ous revolutions, which, as has been well observed, arise more 
often from want of food than from want of liberty. 

Bat the calculations must always be open to the correction 
of continuous observation and experiment. Chemical analysis 
is much too young an art to be infallible, and hitherto un- 
detected substances and conditions are, year by year, turning 
up, which modify our conclusions. And a very wide margin 
must be left for unforeseen contingencies, and a discretionary 
power be placed in the hands of individuals, or there is a risk 
lest the administrator should have to regret making too precise 
a reckoning. He whose income is only just equal to his ex- 
penditure, is always on the brink of insolvency. 

The most important modification required io be made 
arises out of the differences of work demanded. Men may 
languish in solitary prisons, invalids may lie bedridden, paupers 
may wait for better times, nations may idle away existence, on 
a scale of food-supply which is followed by death from starva- 
tion when work is demanded. How shall the effect of physical 
exertion be reckoned? Here the engineers have helped us 
with their precise and irrefragable science. Joule of Man- 
chester analyzed, about thirty years ago, the relation which the 
heat used in machinery, as a source of power, bore to the 
force of motion thus made active. He found means of proving, 
that raising the temperature of a pound of water one degree 



THEOEIES OF DIETETICS. 11 

Fahrenheit was exactly equivalent to raising 772 lbs. to the 
height of a foot. And, conversely, that the fall of 772 lbs. 
might be so applied as to heat a pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit. Thus, the mechanical work represented in the 
lifting 772 lbs. a foot high, or one pound 772 ft. high, forms 
the ' dynamic equivalent,' the measure of the possible strength, 
of one degree of temperature as marked by the thermometer. 
Physiologists seized eagerly on the opportunity which Joule's 
demonstration seemed to afford them of estimating, in actual 
numerals, the relation of living bodies to the work they have 
to do. So much earth, raised on an embankment, represents 
so much heat developed in the machinery, living or dead, 
muscle or steel, gang of labourers or steam engine, which 
raised it. Both muscle and steel come equally under the 
great physical laws of the universe which the far-sighted 
mechanician has expounded. Now, in the animal frame, the 
supply of heat, and therefore the supply of capacity for work, 
is that which is developed from latency into energy by the 
chemical actions, the ceaseless round of unending change, 
which is an inseparable part of life. The amount of fully 
digested food, converted through several stages into gaseous, 
liquid, and solid excretory matters, produces by its chemical 
changes a definite amount of heat, of which a definite amount 
escapes, and a definite amount is employed in working the 
involuntary machinery of the body, and the rest is available 
for conversion at will into voluntary muscular action. As the 
mechanician allows for the effect of friction, &c., in making 
his calculations, so the physiologist allows for the action of 
diffusion, conduction, imperfect secretion, and so on, in reckon- 
ing the quantity of heat available, and allows also for the 
waste of mechanical power involved in the form and structure 
of the limbs. To make all these allowances necessitates 
courses of experiments and calculations which have taken 
more than a generation, and will probably take more than 
another generation to complete. But the road seems clear, 
and already we have gained fruitful information as to the sort 



12 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

of food by which we can expect to get most work out of men 
and beasts ; we have found the cause of many of our failures 
in distributing victuals; and we have learnt how to avoid 
much cruelty and injustice that our fathers unknowingly per- 
petrated. 

It may be reckoned firom experimental calculations, too 
long to be inserted here, that the expenditure of force in 
working the machinery of the body — ^in raising the diaphragm 
about fifteen times, and contracting the heart about sixty times, 
a minute ; in continuously rolling the wave of the intestinal' 
canal ; and in various other involuntary and voluntary move- 
ments which cannot be avoided even by a mere cumberer of 
the ground, without doing anything that can be called work — 
it may be reckoned that the expenditure of force in doing this 
is equal to that which would raise a man of ten stone 10,000 ft. 
But a man cannot even pick' oakum without expending more 
force and requiring more to support it. A prisoner on penal 
diet has half as much again. 

There are several reasons for believing that in assigning 
their physiological functions to the several sorts of food, we 
should ascribe nearly all the business of giving birth to force 
to the solid hydrocarbons, starch and fat, by their conversion 
into carbonic acid, just as we have good grounds for thinking 
that it is the conversion of the solid hydrocarbon, coal, into 
carbonic acid, which drives our locomotives. It is not neces- 
sary to be acquainted with every step of the process, which, in 
the body, we confessedly are not, to appreciate the argument. 
To the nitrogenous aliments seems allotted the task of con- 
tinuously replacing the wear and tear of the nitrogenous 
tissues. Flesh food, or that which comes near it in nitrogen- 
ous contents, after a few changes replaces the lost flesh which 
has passed away in excretions ; and thus the engineer takes 
iron ore, makes it into wrought plates or steel, and renews the 
corroded boiler-plate or worn piston-rod. One of the most 
cogent of these reasons is that the chief nitrogen-holding 
excretion, the urea, is little, if at all, increased in quantity by 



THEOEIES OF DIETETICS. 13 

an increase in tlie work done : whereas the excretion of car- 
bonic acid, in a decided manner, follows the amount of muscular 
exertion. Now it is very clear that if the supply of power to 
do work depended on the renewal by food of the nitrogenous 
tissues, and on their decomposition, the urea would have no 
escape from being largely augmented in quantity by muscular 
efforts, and diminished by rest. This is not the case. At first, 
exercise diminishes the amount of urea (Parkes), and, even 
when continued, very little increases it (B. Smith, Haughton 
and several others quoted in Parkes's 'Hygiene,' p. 383). 
The very small increase which takes place during the following 
rest may be attributed £%irly to the extra wear of the muscles 
from extra motion, just as a steam engine is expected to require 
more repair than usual when in hard use. But that amount 
of repair demanded is as nothing, compared with the increase 
in the tonnage of coal consumed. 

To give an example of the mode of working out a problem 
by this theory: — Dr. Frankland ascertains with the calori- 
tneter, which calculates the amount of heat evolved as a ther- 
mometer does its degree, the quantity of energy or force, under 
the form of heat, evolved during the complete oxidation in 
the laboratory of a given weight of alimentary substance. It 
was explained before, that heat and mechanical work, being 
convertible, into one another, bear an eternally sure proportion 
to one another : now, and for ever, a definite production of so 
much heat represents the potentiality of so much motion, 
used or wasted, according to circumstances. So that from 
the reading of the calorimeter may be reckoned how many extra 
pounds ought to be raised a foot high by a man who has eaten 
an extra pound of the food in question ; how many steps a foot 
high he ought to raise himself (say a weight of ten stone) 
before he has worked out the value of his victuals. Dr. 
Frankland has thus estimated the comparative value of foods 
as bases of muscular exertion, and he has made out a table of 
the weight and cost of various articles that would require to 
be consumed in the system to enable a man of ten stone to 



14 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

raise himself 10,000 ft. TLis is equal to going np a ladder 
two miles and one- third high — a stiff day's work. Three pounds 
and a half of lean beef at a cost of at least 8^. 6d, would be 
wanted ; but if little more than half a pound of suet, worth 
about b^d., were substituted, the same effect might be elicited. 
A liberal three quarts of milk at 6d. a quart would do the 
same thing ; but if cabbages or apples happened to be the 
only available food, 12 lbs. of the former or nearly 8 lbs. of 
the latter must be swallowed — an intolerable burden even for 
the dura messorwm ilia. There is great wisdom, then, in the 
journeyman tailor who adds suet or bacon to his cabbage, and 
in the Yorkshireman who puts a slice of cheese in the apple- 
pie which often serves him for breakfast, dinner, and supper — 
for the said cheese is very high in the scale of nutrimentary 
fuel, and lOd, will buy as much of it as is equal to the 3^ lbs. 
of beef. But in wheaten bread we find a true friend, for of it 
two pounds and a third, costing under 5c?., supply a food 
which really might be eaten alone ; whereas the consumption 
of the others as a sole diet is of course theoretical — the ave- 
rage digestive organs cannot bear them. The mere weight, 
for instance, of 12 lbs. of cabbage would knock a man up, 
if carried in a vessel so ill adapted to sustain heavy loads as 
the stomach. 

Reverting now to the gang of a hundred prisoners formerly 
used as an illustration, and supposing we wanted to put them 
on hard labour involving some exertion equivalent to half Dr. 
Frankland's unit of ten stone raised 10,000 feet — such, for 
instance, as carrying 1^ mile, up ladders, three tons of stone 
daily — ^we should find by calculation that the addition of 
117 lbs. of bread, or of 58 lbs. of bread with 44 lbs. of lean 
meat and 63 lbs. of potatoes, to that diet which would keep 
up their flesh, without labour, would be barely sufficient, and 
that they would lose a little weight daily. Cases of illness 
from overwork would be improperly frequent. Give them a 
draught of milk, or a cup of cocoa and sugar, or some oatmeal- 
porridge and treacle, or even some green vegetables, and the 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 15 

danger is probably averted. But yet, a wide margin must be 
allowed for discretionary modification according to circum- 
stances which the immediate administrators of victualling 
arrangements alone can observe. 

Still more necessary is modification according to circum- 
stances required, when we come to deal with individuals 
instead of masses. When the tailor in Laputa sternly refused 
to take the usual measurements, and insisted on constructing 
Captain Gulliver's coat, waistcoat, and breeches on abstract 
principles, the customer vowed it was the worst suit of clothes 
he ever had in his life. We should certainly fail in the same 
way if we did not take the measure of numberless contin- 
gencies in the daily life, and numberless peculiarities in the 
persons of those who consult us about their diet and regimen, 
or who are (like the inmates of prisons) actually dependent 
upon us for living at all. 

Even healthy persons are not absolutely perfect in the 
performance of all their functions, and a good deal of the 
food swallowed escapes digestion and is wasted among the 
excreta. A considerable margin must be allowed for that. 
And diifferent forms of food and different preparations of 
those forms are suited, from their mere mechanical construc- 
tion, to different constitutions of body. A diet which in an 
old man may be wasted from lack of solution, and which 
would therefore be a starvation diet to him, may in a young 
man be richly ample. On the other hand, the easily soluble, 
but scanty diet on which the old man might flourish, would 
not suffice for his active, growing grandson. Then again, 
very different lives are necessarily led by different men, and 
even by the same man at various times, and variations in the 
mere quantity of food, at the instigation of appetite, are not 
suf&cient to accommodate the diet to the woi-k. Brain-work, 
body- work, in-door work, and out-door work, all introduce 
modifications in the daily requirements of the nutritive organs. 
There are als^ physiological drains upon the constitution, such 
as that felt by a nursing mother, and pathological drains, such 



16 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

as that of a purulent discharge, which have to be provided 
for. And it must be remembered also that many morbid con- 
ditions, which jet do not keep a patient from his employment, 
such as gastric catarrh or tuberculosis, yet interfere with the 
due solution of the meals. And some, such as gout and 
diabetes, are aggravated by eatables which are wholesome to 
a healthy constitution. And there are hereditary tendencies 
which may be turned into diseases by popular articles of diet, 
and not a few idiosyncrasies to be allowed for. 

With the safeguards of due allowance for the above ele- 
ments of variation, and a close eye upon current experiment, 
the theory of demand and supply in dietetics may be turned 
to the very best account by rational medicine. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 17 



CHAPTER II. 
ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 

There is no rule capable of sncli universal application as that 
all articles designed for human food should be the best of 
their kind which can be procured, and that it is false economy 
to be tempted by a lower price to be satisfied with less eligible 
wares. The saving in money is always out-balanced by the 
inferior utility. Economy, when necessary, should be prac- 
tised in quantity, not quality, in the sort of food chosen, and 
not in its degree of perfection. 

As to the arrangement of the subject, the naturalist's 
classification has been that usually adopted by authors. But 
it seems to me less scientifically appropriate to the matter 
in hand, and more likely to involve repetition, than one which 
brings together articles associated in the market, and which, 
indeed, often combine elements derived from several realms 
of nature. These articles are here to be considered solely as 
food for man, and not as independent members in creation. 

§ 1. Butcher's Meat. 

The lean of butcher's meat should show a deep purplish red 
tint, with a sort of bloom over it, on the outside of the muscle, 
and a lighter vermilion red with a bare shade of purple in 
the cut surface. The lean of beef may be a . little marbled 
with fat, but that of mutton should be quite even in hue. 
When cut in a very fine slice, or stretched in a thin layer over 

c 



18 GEK£RAL DIETETICS. 

the flEtt, as naturally, in the ribs, it is semi-transparent and 
orange-vermilion in uniform streaks.^ 

The surface is quite dry, and even the cut should scarce 
wet the finger. In substance it is moderately sofb, but ex- 
tremely elastic, so that no mark is lefb after pressure. A day 
or two in the larder should make no difference in this respect. 

There is very little odour in a single joint of good meat, 
and what there is, to most people, is not unpleasant. When 
made powerful by accumulation, as in a shop, it may be de- 
scribed as refreshing and exhilarating, like a sea-breeze. 

It should not waste much in cooking. That is to say, it 
should not contain an excess in water, nor part with it too 
easily. Dried in the laboratory, healthy muscular fibre, accord- 
ing to Dr. Letheby,* does not part with above 70 to 74 per 
cent, of its weight ; whereas, when in an unhealthy condition, 
it will lose as much as 80 per cent. Cooking is, of course, 
not the complete chemical desiccation alluded to ; but its 
relation to animal fibre is the same. 

When a joint is brought to table roasted, it holds well its 
gravy, which gushes out when a cut is made, in a rich brown 
stream, full of appetizing scent and filavour, and called gra- 
phically by the chemist * Osmazome.' 

The tastes of the tissues should be quite distinct from one 
another. The mutton lean should have no flavour of tallow, 
nor the beef of suet. Tenderness, of course, is a virtue, but 
freshness should not be sacrificed to it. 

The raw fat of beef, whose base is principally margarine, 
should be of a light yellow colour, like fresh butter ; that of 
mutton, which is mainly stearine, should be very white. 

Lamb and veal should have very white and translucent 
fat ; and if the whole carcase can be examined, the fat about 
the kidneys should be especially observed, as that is not r^wely 
reddish and unwholesome, while the rest is in good condition. 

' The 'vermilion* and * purple lake' of the paint-box are the only 
colours required to copy the lights and shades of healthy meat 
* Lectures on Food, p. 235. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD, 19 

Of these two latter meats, the lean shonld be pale, bnt even 
in tint and free from mottling. 

The above-mentioned features of prime meat are still more 
to be insisted npon when we choose the various internal parts. 
They decompose quicker, and when decomposed are more 
unwholesome, than ordinary muscular fibre. They should 
have a clean bright even colour throughout, and be free from 
spots, speckles, and points of congestion or of bruises. 

LiVer, kidneys, and heart become very hard by too great 
or too prolonged heat. Unless, therefore, a very small dish is 
required, they should be avoided. 

Butchers are fond of palming off the pancreas, or 
* stomach-bread,' in place of the * sweet-bread,' which is the 
thymus gland of the calf. It may be recognized, even when 
cooked and chopped up, by its large veins and arteries. It is 
very inferior in digestibility to the more delicate gland. 

In roasting, the fat of meat should not run away into the 
dripping. 

If these characteristics are insisted upon, we may be 
satisfied that our kitchen is provided with the best article, 
however moderate the price may be ; without them we are ill 
served, however much we pay. They are guarantees of 
wholesomeness, and therefore worth more than all the negative 
evidence of absence of unwholesomeness. 

The immediate antecedents, and the mode of slaughtering 
the animal certainly very much affect the nature of its flesh. 
Chronic loss of health of any kind makes it not only less easy 
of digestion, but less nutritious in proportion to the quantity 
eaten. The muscular fibre of a beast in poor condition is 
pale in colour, pinkish, yellowish, or brownish. A quantity of 
watery fat, of a bad colour, is intimately mixed up with the 
fasciculi. The colours of the two seem to blend so as to 
present a marbled aspect. Such meat is wet, sodden and in- 
elastic. If it retains the mark of a finger pressed upon it, it 
is unfit to eat. When left unwiped, it parts with its watery 

c 2 



20 GENEKAL DIETETICS. 

constituents, and soon lies in a pool of blood-stained flaid. 
When cooked its gravy is pale and mawkish, and it has lost 
a good deal of its snbstance. In the mnseum of the College 
of Snrgeons * there is preserved a mntton-chop, the meat of 
which is converted into a waxy or adipocerous snbstance, 
obviously no more fit for food than are those sticks of 
adhesive matter with which our beaux stifien their whiskers. 
This is simply an extremely advanced specimen of a condition 
which is commencing inters titially in the carcases of all 
chronically invalided animals. It is that degeneration of 
muscle with which the classical description of Dr. Quain 
made all in our profession familiar twenty-five years ago,* as 
occurring in the human body. It is found not only in organs 
which have been exhausted by chronic .inflammations, but in 
those which are simply hypertrophied, and with a frequency 
closely proportioned to the frequency with which the special 
organs become so enlarged. 

It is the more important to notice the effect of chronic 
disease upon the flesh of adult animals, because it does not in 
many cases prevent their being fatted up for market and pre- 
senting a delusive appearance of prime condition. Thus the 
* rot,' always associated with the presence of fluke- worms in 
the liver, exhibits itself at an early stage in the sheep by a 
great tendency to plumpness. The shrewd breeder, Mr. 
Bake well, ' to whom farmers owe so much ' (more indeed 
than their customers), *used to overflow certain of his pas- 
tures, and, when the water was run off, turn upon them those 
of his sheep which he wanted to prepare for the market. They 
speedily became rotted, and in the early stage of the disease 
they accumulated flesh and fat with wonderful rapidity. By 
this mancBuvre he used to gain five or six weeks upon his 
neighbours.' ' But what was the worth of this hypertrophied 

> No. 10 in the Catalogtie of the Pathological Series. 
» See the plates in the Medico-chirurgical Transactions^ vol. xxxiii. 
p. 196. The colouring is very accurate. 
» Youatt, The Sheep, p. 446. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 21 

muscle and adipose tissue ? Breeders, if they give a thought 
to the subject, must be conscious that the heart and arteries 
do not grow at the same morbid pace with the rest of the 
body, and the animal, imperfectly supplied with blood, is in a 
state of extreme ansBmia. Indeed, one of the earliest known 
and best known tests of * rot,' is the condition of the eyeball 
and lid, the inside of which is injected, but pale and tallowy, 
while the tear-gland is yellow instead of pink.* We know 
the look well in our chlorotic patients. 

Not quite so pronounced, but of the same nature, is the 
anasmia which results from the constant efforts of the farmer 
to produce a flock which will lay on the greatest weight of 
flesh in the shortest possible number of weeks. Premature 
developement of size and of puberty is in his sight a virtue, 
both in those destined for the butcher and in those he selects 
as breeders. It is a saving of time, and time is money. I 
fear our agricultural societies are not free firom the blame of 
this, inducing competition in bulk by their system of prizes j 
and I do not see how they can counteract the evil that has 
been wrought, unless by instituting rewards for prime joints, 
to be adjudged at the table as well as in the larder. 

Good mutton is generally small ; indeed large mutton caa 
only be good — these hypertrophied breeds can only be thoroughly 
prime — ^by being kept alive till their constitution has grown up 
to their size. To illustrate the matter by our own race, a 
school-boy of six foot one never becomes hearty till he is at 
least one or two and twenty. But after that, the weedy youth 
may harden and be a fine man. So indeed with these over- 
grown lambs, if they are kept till four years old, the meat is 
very choice ; but of course the temptation is to bring them to 
the butcher directly they are as tall and broad as a real sheep ; 
and the farmer looks upon himself as a benefactor to his 

* ' That dire distemper sometimes may the swain 
Though late discern ; when on the lifted lid 
Or visual orb, the turgid veins are pale.' 

Dyer's Fleece^ book i. line 266. 



22 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

species, as having made two animals in the time formerly 
required to make one. But I hear with sorrow of attempts 
being made to ' improve,' as it is called, the Welsh breed, and 
trust they may be unsuccessful. A more promising statement 
is that Welsh mutton, in the London market, is imitated by a 
cross between the Southdown and the Scotch.^ We may 
pardon the deception, if the meat is as good as its model. 

A striking proof of how opposed are the interests of the 
farmer and of the consumer in the breeding of sheep is, that 
in the minute experiments and calculations of the advantage 
of different breeds and various modes of feeding, no attempt 
is made to reckon the goodness of the dead meat. We are 
told the weight, but never the quantity of osmazome it con- 
tains, though the readiest possible test in the tint of the gravy 
is very familiar to the eater. 

To get good mutton in country places is now a serious 
problem, and I would suggest to my professional brethren, 
who are of course permanent residents, that they cannot 
confer a greater boon on families in the same position of life 
as most of us are, that is to say, not rich enough to have parks 
and farms, and yet willing to pay a good price for a good 
article — I say they cannot confer a greater benefit on these 
their neighbours, than by inducing them to join in a * mutton 
club,' buying the lambs of a full-sized breed, and keeping 
them to at least three and a half years old before killing. The 
price per pound will not be less than charged by the butcher, 
but it will supply an article twice as good as his. 

There has been felt a good deal of alarm, more I think 
than is justifiable, during the last few years on the subject of 
the class of parasites which are not uncommon in the flesh of 
all animals, namely the cysticercus and the trichina ; and which, 
when sufficiently numerous to be conspicuous, constitute what 
is called * measly meat.' 

The cysticercus of the pig is the sort most frequently seen, 

* Macdonald, Cattle^ Sheep, and Deer^ p 483. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 23 

Forming a cyst as large as a hemp-seed. Its commonest habitat 
is the tongue, on the under surface of which it may be dis- 
covered even without cutting into the interior. You may also 
find the oval holes left by' it when dried up in, otherwise, very 
perfect hams, and opaque white specks, like seeds, intimately 
adherent to the muscular fibres, which are its remains dried 
into calcareous matter. This measle-worm of the pig has 
been found by the industrious German naturalist Kiichen- 
meister to be the undeveloped embryo of the tcenia soliwm^ the 
tapeworm of most usual occurrence in Great Britain. By 
keeping them alive in warm milk he was able to watch the 
developement of the animals. The cysticercus of the ox is 
smaller, and is either rarer or seldomer discovered in this 
country. It becomes the tcenia mediocanellata, the species 
which infests the intestines of Germans, Swiss, and others, 
producing exactly the same inconveniences as that with which 
we are familiar. As the measle-worm of the mouse produces 
the peculiar tape- worm of the cat (tcenia crassicollis) ^ as the 
brain hydatid of the sheep (coermrus cerebralis) produces the 
tcenia ccenmrus in the dog, so the minute larva which infests 
the flesh of our prey revenges itself on its natural enemy. An 
old boa constrictor is always a complete museum of tape- 
worms, derived from the various living game which it has 
devoured. 

Now, there is no doubt that the boiling temperature en- 
tirely destroys the vitality of these creatures. When cooked 
they can do us no more harm than a baked lion. So that it 
can very rarely, if ever, happen in civilized countries for them 
to be transmitted directly to human intestines. Another 
mode of communication must be thought of, and I think it is 
^ot far to seek. Though we do not eat our food raw, dogs 
very often do, and they distribute far and wide by their 
excreta all that escapes the solution of the gastric juice. Thus 
the embryos get spread abroad on the earth, into streams and 
wells, and especially in our kitchen gardens among the mate- 
rials of our salads. I had once brought to me a child three 



24 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

years old, with tape- worm, a yery rare thing at that age, and thus 
affording pecnliar facilities for detecting its origin. It was 
the son of a sculptor in the sabnrbs of London, and all the 
cooking arrangements of the family' seemed perfect, as also 
their water supply. But in the stone-yard, which had once 
been a garden, grew a quantity of nasturtiums, and among 
these the baby used to play, and sometimes ate the flowers and 
fruit. As the yard was open to the road, it was much fre- 
quented by the dogs of the neighbourhood, and showed un- 
mistakable signs of their presence. One could not question 
that here lay the carrier of the little patient's troublesome 
inmate. The observant and enthusiastic physician of Iceland, 
Dr. Hjaltelin, also informs me that intestinal parasites are 
exceedingly common in that country, and that the cause 
appears to be the distribution of their ova by stray dogs who 
are always in and out of the kail gardens. Another possible 
source of tcenia may be shell flsh, eaten raw, and often con- 
taining in their stomachs minute organisms derived from 
decayed garbage thrown away or used as bait. Only the other 
day I found in the prehensile organs of a prawn a shred of 
animal fibre, and saw a man fishing for crabs and prawns at 
the mouth of the Arun with a piece of paunch. With all 
these possible sources of infection there is no need to suspect 
butcher's meat, which is never eaten raw. except by some 
eccentric amateur savage. 

The real evil of measly meat consists in its proneness to 
rapid decomposition in spite of cookery, and to that may fairly 
be credited cases of illness which are reputed to have followed 
its consumption. So that it is fair enough that all that is 
largely infected should be destroyed. In France there used to 
be appointed to the markets officers called ' langueyev/rs ' from 
their inspecting the tongues of carcases offered for sale ; but 
their legal authorisation, and possible tyranny, seems to have 
given dissatisfaction, for M. Delpech says they have no lawful 
Authority, but are employed simply as a warrant between 
buyer and seller. They have to report to the inspector of 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 25 

markets, nstially a skilled veterinarian, who jndges if the 
quantity of measle-worm is sufficient to render the meat un- 
wholesome. The shoulder and the breast are the parts usually 
examined as tests.* 

The trichina spiralis is another parasitic inhabitant of live 
flesh, of a more active character and of a higher grade in 
creation than that last discussed ; for instead of being a solid 
worm like the taBuia, it is possessed of an intestine.^ It is 
sometimes found in human flesh and in pork, appearing as a 
minute white speck, just visible to the naked eye, which con- 
stitutes its nest, in which one or two curled-up specimens are 
seen, by a microscope, in active movement, but prevented from 
doing harm by the cyst in which they are imprisoned. The 
danger consists in its escape and wonderfolly rapid multipli- 
cation, under special circumstances not very clearly defined ; 
for it exists at most times in considerable numbers without 
giving rise to any symptoms whatever. But there seems 
sufficient evidence that in a few instances an epidemic has 
occurred of its invasion, in overpowering quantities at once, of 
human bodies, through the food eaten. The symptoms are 
inflammatory fever and local lesions from the interstitial 
presence of a mass of quickly increasing foreign bodies. But 
these instances have been extremely rare. A few years ago a 
physiologist in this metropolis, having become the fortunate 
possessor of some specimens of live trichina, instantly invited 
a crowded conversazione of medical men and others interested 
in the natural history of our species, and introduced to them 
by means of the hydro-oxygen microscope his acquisition. 
Very few of the party, if any, had seen one before : and very 
few, if any, have seen one since. 

The trichina is said to cause degeneration of the muscular 
fibres in its vicinity, so that the joints infested would not 

* Delpech, Diet, encycl. des sciences mid.t art. 'Ladrerie :* an excellent 
monograph on the subject, date 1868. 

' Professor Owen has identified the trichina as one of the Coelelmintha, 
and the College of Physicians has adopted his classification. 



26 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

present the healthy appearance described at the beginning of 
this section. It is killed by the temperature of boiling water, 
so that if a dish is fairly cooked, it must be quite safe. The 
cases which have occurred of its proving deleterions have been 
where the meat has been eaten raw, or imperfectly warmed 
through and served cold, with its defects concealed by some 
enveloping sauce. No decently delicate feeders need be a&aid 
of it. If the leaden dull colour of the meat before us has 
been destroyed, so that it does not look raw when the gravy 
is run off, and if the peculiar texture of fibre which distin- 
guishes unoooked meat, is removed, we may be sure that the 
temperature has mounted up to that sufficient to coagulate 
albumen (160° Fahr.), and that any stray trichina would be 
killed on the spot or permanently imprisoned in a solid nest. 

It may be proper to mention that no form of drying, salt- 
ing, or even smoking at a low heat, is sufficient to destroy the 
trichina. So that when travelling in Germany it is wise 
altogether to avoid the sausages and uncooked ham often 
served up in thin slices, and which, in point of fact, have been 
proved- the sources of trichinous poisoning in the few instances 
on record. 

The whole influence of fevers and inflammations upon the 
flesh of animals thereby affected during life, and whether they 
should be considered as a reason for its being pronounced 
absolutely unfit for food, is a moot-point. There is a good 
deal of hearsay evidence on both sides, but I cannot find any 
crucial cases recorded as observed by competent witnesses.^ 
An enormous quantity of meat is destroyed on this ground, 
for, according to Mr. Youatt*s estimate, one-fifteenth of the 

* * In no -well-ascertained case has it been found that any ill effects have 
been produced by eating the flesh of diseased animals, although there is 
abundant evidence that at the outbreak of the distemper in Massachusetts, 
and before public attention had been directed to its true character, a con- 
siderable number of animals, in which the usual premonitory symptoms had 
appeared, were slaughtered and their flesh sold.' — Second Annual Report qf 
the State Board of Health, Massachusetts, 1871. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 27 

whole homed stock of the conntiy die annually of inflamma- 
toiy fever, milk fever, red-water, hoove and diarrhcBa, and 
one-tenth of the sheep and lambs are carried off by corre- 
Bponding ailments.^ When we add those which perish by 
accident and accidental sickness, it is obvious that several 
million tons of meat are thns taken ont of hnman months by 
the law which insists on the destruction of all which bears 
the marks of disease. Opponents say that if it possess only a 
fraction of the nutritive power of good meat, it ought not to 
be wasted, but sold at a lower price, provided always proof 
can be obtained, that it does not, when eaten, communicate 
disease. This, as said before, is a moot-point, but yet what is 
certain is to my mind quite sufficient to justify the exclusive- 
ness of the existing regulations. It is certain that there are 
some diseases, originating in beasts, which may be communi- 
cated to men handKng the carcase before it has been submitted 
to the action of heat, as for ei^ample pustula m-aligtia and 
glanders. And some fevers, such as typhus, are common to 
man and beast, and are indubitably contagious during life, 
and probably after death, till the flesh has passed through the 
purification of fire. Now most of those who would buy 
diseased meat on account of its cheapness, cook their own 
victuals, and are exposed to all the evils which may accrue 
from handling a dangerous article. Again, this * braxy ' meat, 
Ha it is technically called, runs rapidly into decomposition, 
find becomes a serious nuisance on that ground alone. It is 
also frequently saturated with the soluble drugs which hiave 
Ijeen given as medicines by the veterinarian. Ergot of rye, 
digitalis, opium, tartar emetic, are often administered in 
enormous quantities. Mr. Youatt advises upwards of half an 
ounce daily of solid opium for an ox with lock-jaw, which is 
240 times the full human dose, and as this is eqnally distri- 
buted to the soft parts by the circulation, in a beast (say) of 
twenty stone, each pound would contain at least half a grain 

* Youatt, Cattle, Preface. 



28 GENERAL DIETETIC5S. 

of the poison. A case is recorded, in which tartar emetic 
taken by an ox before slaughtering produced serious eflfects 
on 107 persons who partook of the meat.* One person who 
died had eaten only half a pound. Tartar emetic was found 
in the contents of his abdomen. 

Acute fevers cause an acute degeneration or interstitial 
death-in-life of both blood and tissues. Virgil notices that in 
victims slaughtered during the cattle-plague the peristaltic 
vermicular motions of the intestines, by which the priests 
told fortunes, are stayed, and that the blood is as the blood of 
a corpse, scarcely staining the knife — 

Nee responsa potest consultus reddere yates, 

Ac vix suppositi tinguntur sanguine cultri. — Georg, iii. 491. 

And it may be remarked that the poet, who is a practical 
farmer as well as the tnost picturesque of sweet singers, 
expressly says that he is here speaking of the early stage of 
murrain, the fatal later symptoms of which he describes after- 
wards. The Reports of the Cattle-plague Committee of Privy 
Council show, that his lines will apply to England as well as 
to Italy. Now, it can hardly be maintained that it is honest 
to sell in the market meat thns saturated with natural death, 
though the animal has been slaughtered before the full declara- 
tion of the fever. 

The best possible meat may be rendered unwholesome by 
normal decomposition. The stomach can, indeed, through 
habit, become used to food in this state ; and thus may be 
accounted for the instances we read in books of travels, of 
savages, like the Eskimos, who bury their flesh till it is putrid, 
or like the Zulus with whom (according to Dr. Colenso) the 
synonym for heaven is 'maggoty meat.' Of course, rather 
than die of starvation, or be reduced to the straits suffered 
by Hezekiah's army, one would acquire such an habit, and 

* Quoted by Dr. Pavy from the Central Zeitufig fiir Veterin'drmedisin 
fur 1864. Treatise on food, &c. p. 149. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 29 

invent a sauce to make it tolerable ; but it is scarcely worth 
while to do so in civilized society. Under ordinary circum- 
stances many cases are recorded in works upon poisons, such 
as Dr. Christison's, where decayed animal food has produced 
severe and even fatal diarrhoea, in spite of cookery having 
concealed some of its repulsiveness. High game has fortunately 
gone out of fashion, and the most frequent form in which we 
now meet with decomposing albuminoid matter is that of a 
fusty egg. Some housekeepers seem to consider this quite 
good enough for made dishes, and thus spoil material worth 
ten times what they save by the nasty economy. No egg 
should be allowed to enter the kitchen, that has the slightest 
smell of rotten straw. But this seems rather beyond the 
subject of butcher's meat, and it is time to proceed to another 
department of the larder. The suitability of different sorts of 
meat to different constitutions will be considered in a future 
chapter. 

§ 2. Poultry and Game. 

Tenderness is the chief virtue in poultry, and is most dif- 
ficult to find in the winter season. Spring chickens come in 
with May, but during the five previous months much care is 
requisite in purchasing this article of the table. A young, 
and therefore tender bird, may be known before plucking by 
the comparative largeness of the feet and the leg joints. And ^ 
when a fowl appears at table with a thin neck and violet- 
tinted thighs, it is wise to avoid being helped to the leg. 
These are invariable signs of age and toughness. 

The same violet tinge may be noticed in the thighs of old 
turkeys, which are also distinguished by their hairiness. The 
age of ducks and geese may be tested by their beaks, the 
lower part of which breaks away easily in youth. 

Besides being tough and indigestible, an old fowl has a 
rank flavour, like a close hen-house, which arises from the 
absorption into its flesh of the oil furnished by nature 



30 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

to lubricate the feathers. This is still more perceptible lA 
old ducks and geese. It may often be tasted some time 
after a meal, and mnst therefore, like most rank oils, arrest 
digestion. 

Game may roughly be selected by the same rules as 
poultry. Those who have interested themselves in ornitho- 
logy may also get some help from observing the undeveloped 
spurs in young gallinaceous birds, and the pointed long- wing 
feathers of the young partridge, which become rounded at the 
tip when he is old. 

Poultry should not be too f&t. In cooking, the oily 
adipose tissue becomes rank, and is less digestible than the fat 
of mammalia. 

§ 3. Fish. 

The sanitarian has not much advice to give concerning the 
marketing of raw fish, except that it should be fresh. The 
guides by which to judge of this are the fulness of the eye- 
balls, and the bright pink hue of the gills. The sense of 
smell cannot be trusted to, as it may be deceived by the use 
of ice. When cooked, the flesh of fresh fish is firm but 
friable ; that which is stale is flabby and stringy, even if pre- 
served by cold fiH)m actual putrefaction. 

The less salt, and the colder, the water is whence our fish 
comes, the better adapted is it for the table. At Gibraltar it 
is not hard to distinguish the mullet caught on the Atlantic 
side of the rock from that which lives in the Mediterranean, 
a warmer and more concentrated sea ; so much is the advan- 
tage on the side of the former. An Icelander dining at my 
house passed by with polite scorn a piece of prime Scar- 
borough cod. Seeing my surprise, he explained that no one 
who has tasted it at Beikiavik could bear to eat cod in 
England, and that it was best in the polar circle, braced up 
by the melting icebergs. The nearly fresh waters of Loch 
Fyne supply the choicest herrings, and the pure light moun- 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 31 

tain streams a better troat than onr lowland streams, where 
the atmospheric pi^ssnre is greater. 

Every sort is best when it is cheapest, for then it is most 
plentiful and in fiDiUest season. It is a wise plan to contract 
with yonr fishmonger to send joa so many dishes a week at a 
fixed smn, and then it becomes his interest to supply that 
with which the market most abounds. For healthy persons, 
every kind ordinarily exposed for sale in England is whole- 
some, provided it be good of its kind, and not spoilt in the 
cooking. The selection of fish for invalids will be discussed 
later. 

Complete cookery, however, should be insisted upon. 
The conger-eel, for example,* is a veiy foul feeder, and has 
been known, if carelessly grilled, to cause diarrhoea, probably 
firom the fetid contents of the stomach saturating the flesh. 
And at the Pathological Society on May 5, there was shown a 
specimen of the bunch-headed tapeworm {BotKriocephalus 
lotus) which had grown in a person used to eat half-cooked 
fresh-water fish. 

The only sort of reptile of dietetic importance is the turtle. 
It is sometimes viewed as a mere luxury, but is in reality a 
most digestible and nutritious food, and if more demanded 
would quickly become more plentiful in the market. The 
creature grows too slowly for it ever to remunerate artificial 
culture, but nature supplies it in immense quantities, and its 
tenacity of life enables it to be brought over alive firom the 
tropics. Fresh turtle is much more costly than it ought to 
be, but the rival importation of dried turtle fins is reducing 
the price. This last-named article is of great value, and of 
moderate price; from it, first-rate real turtle-soup may be 
made at no more than the expense of mock- turtle, if we deduct 
the price of the wine used, which to some palates is no im- 
provement. The fins should be soaked for at least twenty- 
four hours before cooking. 

Caviare^ the roe of the sturgeon, is best obtained fi-om a 
fishmonger. The dealer in preserved provisions seems to 



32 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

think it all the better for being preserved, whereas it should 
be as fresh as can be got, exhibiting its freshness hj its soft- 
ness and light colour. That black, hard sort of fish-jam which 
is sometimes served up, is really unfit for human consumption. 
All that has been said above, applies equally to Crustacea 
and shells ; but an additional remark may be made about crabs. 
They should be cleansed scrupulously before cooking, and if 
that which is removed from their prehensile organs is fetid, 
they are hardly to be considered safe. The frequency '\rith 
which crabs disagree unexpectedly with a healthy ston^lkch, 
may be attributed with reason to the garbage on which the 
creature lives. And of oysters it should be remembered that 
they are to be eaten raw, or, at most, barely warmed through ; 
for complete boiling makes the flesh tough, so that it is 
prudent, if they come from near river-mouths, to keep them 
alive in a shallow dish of clean brine for a day or two, feeding 
them with meal, and changing the water so as to leave them 
bare twice a day, in imitation of the tide. They become 
peculiarly plump and wholesome under this management. 



§ 4. Garden Peoduce. 

The commonest fault committed by housekeepers in respect 
of vegetables, is that they do not supply a sufficient variety, 
seeming to consider that the meat is the only part of the meal 
that requires care, and that aU the rest is mere garnish beneath 
the notice of a Briton, and unfit to sustain his vigorous life. 
Yet that is not the experience of the observers of mankind. 
The attention of Herodotus was called to the fact that the 
Persians, the manliest and most sporting nation in the old 
world, had at meals not only several dishes, but several courses 
of vegetable food, preceding a very moderate allowance of 
solid meat.1 And Sir Henry Eawlinson describes the diet of 
this tough race as practically the same now, so that the 

» Herodotus, Clio, cxxxiii. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. Z3 

assumptions of some anthropologists that hnnting races are 
necessarily riotons eaters of flesh, and that camivoracity 
strengthens a nation, are not accurate. The Persian gentleman 
is the spiritual father of the British squire ; ^ yet, at many a 
hospitable board, if a guest does not fancy meat that day, or 
has eaten enough of it at a previous meal, he will have to 
fall back upon potatoes, or to solac^ himself by picking a few 
bits out of the sauces of made dishes, where the vegetable 
flavour has been saturated with that of meat and spoilt. 
Usually, he goes on eating too much nitrogenous food out of 
sheer idleness. 

Another fault is that the vegetables are not sufficiently 
fresh. Unhappily dead plants do not stink early enough to 
disgust the nose ; but yet, every minute they are kept after 
their actual death, that is to say, after they have ceased to be 
capable of growth, renders them in some degree less digestible. 
Sometimes they are kept too long out of mere carelessness, 
sometimes from lack of sale, but sometimes also intentionally, 
to make them look better at table. For a long time, I could 
not make out why Ijondon asparagus so often disagreed with 
people, till at last I caught a gardener cutting it twenty-four 
hours before it was wanted, and putting it in a damp warm 
frame, * to swell ' as he said. Cucumbers and broccoli are often 
spoilt in the same way. The vast wagons of cabbage that 
one sees coming into London at midnight are often the bearers 
of two or three days* cutting in small gardens, kept till a full 
load is accumulated for a single journey ; as early travellers 
by rail may see for themselves. Sprinkled with water they 
look well, but never regain their fresh character. They 
ferment in the stomach, and produce flatulence. 

Potatoes, — The virtues of a potato are to be mealy and 
powdery when boiled, and to mash readily into a smooth 

' He taught his sons * to shoot, to ride, to s^eak the truth,' and then 
left them to educate themselves ; he was devoted to his sovereign to a degree 
that astonished Herodotus ; and he loved a good glass of wine in good 
company. 

D 



34 GENEKAL DIETETICS. 

purSe, This shows that the starch granules are in a healthy 
condition, and that they absorb water and burst the envelopes 
of glutinous matter which the heat has coagulated. Young 
potatoes, from not so easily breaking up, require long mastica- 
tion to render them soluble, and are not then very digestible. 
But old waxy potatoes are worse, for they seem to unite again 
into a sticky mass, after being swallowed, and remain for 
hours undissolved ; the worst of all are potatoes affected by 
the peculiar epidemic called after their name. The diseased 
part, looking as if it were stained with a drop of ink, remains 
quite hard in spite of any amount of boiling and digesting : 
eating it is equivalent to eating so much rotten wood. 
Potatoes which have began to sprout, are also indigestible, 
and frosted potatoes begin to decay immediately a thaw sets 
in. The best potatoes are ' Regents.' 

Jerusalem Artichokes are largely used in England by people 
who have gardens, partly because the plant is handsome, and 
partly because the root is not injured by frost, and so can be 
allowed to remain in the earth during winter. The dried 
stem is also convenient for firing. It is a watery vegetable, 
and though it had the start of the potato in European horti- 
culture, it has never been brought to the same perfection. 
The fact is it contains no starch, and the * inuline * which 
replaces that valuable aliment, is only 2 per cent, of its 
weight, whereas in its successful rival there is a proportion of 
16 per cent. It should be eaten only as an occasional change, 
for the sake of its flavour. 

Turnips may have nearly the same things said of them. 

Ya'ms and sweet potatoes come now into the London market. 
They are as mealy and wholesome as the commoner tuber, and 
are sometimes useful to tempt our patients into the use of 
vegetable diet. 

Carrots contain a quantity of pectin, which can be extracted 
from them in the form of a jelly, and is often used by confec- 
tioners to mix with fruit jelly as a diluent. It resides princi- 
pally in the outer rind, whose thickness therefore in proportion 



ON THfi CflOtCE Ot FOOD. 35 

to tlie pale core in a test of the goodness of the specimen. 
When soft and friable they are much more nntritious than 
turnips. 

Parsnips may take to themselves the Same praise, and 
onght to be more Used, especiia»lly with boiled fish. From their 
sweetness they make excellent fritters, and are liked by 
children, to whom they are well adapted; However, when old 
and stringy, they dhonld be avoided. 

Salsafy is in England considered more a dish for the 
gourmet, than as a food for middle-class tabled. This is unjust, 
for it is nntritious and digestible, and grows easily. It is 
best eaten alone, fried in a thin coat of batter. It should 
break readily> and be free from strings. 

Leeks make a capital sotip and a most digestible side 
dish. The more white there is in them, and the less green, 
the softer and better they are. They sbotlld have but little 
smell. 

Sea-Jcale shotdd be perfectly blanched. "Wlien coloured it is 
indigestible, as is shown by its being tasted in the month after 
dinner. 

Aspa/ra§us should be eateii as soon as possible after cutting, 
and then it is most wholesome. The greenest asparagus is 
that which contains the greatest amount of the active prin- 
ciples, bitter and resinoUs, and is therefore to be chosen in 
preference. I have knoWn timid patients to fear that it must 
be injurious to the kidneys, because of th"e peculiar odonr 
communicated by it to the Urine. It cert)Ednly dtoes no harm, 
and I doubt almost if it is a diuretic. 

In early spring, the fresh yonUg fronds of the male fern 
make a good imitation of early asparagUd, and are decidedly 
better than the wild asparagus brought to table in the south 
of Europe. With other snbstitutes for it I have no acquaint- 
ance. The number of them shows how well worth having the 
real thing is. 

Gahhage is the most valuable anti-scorbntic we possess. In 
the slight degree of scorbutus characterised by bleeding of 

D 2 



36 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

the guma or by purpura, it is eminently saccessful, and pre- 
yents the same thing happening to other members of the 
honsehold who are wise enough to prefer prevention to cure. 
It should be soft but crisp before cooking, and show no signs 
of having been wetted. If it has begun to heat from incipient 
fermentation, it is most noxious, and generates in the intestinal 
canal an enormous amount of flatus, consisting not only of the 
usual carbonic acid, but of sulphuretted hydrogen as well. 
Fermentatipn destroys the anti-scorbutic qualities of the 
cabbage, for sour-crout is not nearly po efficacious as the fr^esh 
plant. 

Sour-crout is prepared by taking advantage of the fermen- 
tation as a means of after-preservation. The leaves of the 
kail are allowed to heat, and then subjected to severe pressure, 
which arrests the chemical action, and hardens them into a 
dry mass which will keep a long time. It reqxiires much 
soaking, and should not be cooked till free from all sour taste. 
It should not want chewing, or it is shown to be underdone. 

The best sorts are the old white garden cabbage and the 
summer cauliflower. 

Winter greens are of so many sorts that it would be neces- 
sary to be a complete gardener to give rules for the selection 
of each. Their greenness and freshness at a time when all 
around is brown and decaying is the attraction to them ; and 
it may be said generally, that therefore they ought to be as 
fresh and green as possible. Under this heading I include 
savoys and Brussels sprouts, but not broccoli, which should 
of course be as white as can be got. 

I take the opportunity of having to allude to hoJil-rahi (a 
new kind of cabbage of which the leaf-stalks are eaten), to 
say that it is not prudent to recommend to our patients novel 
varieties of garden produce, unless we are well acquainted with 
them ourselves. We do not know how to decide if they are 
good of their sort or not ; and much more depends upon that 
than upon the kind of vegetable. 

Cardoons, — Those who grow this delicious thistle, which is 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 37 

seldom bronglit to market, should take care that the leaf-stalks 
are at least an inch and a half thick before they are considered 
fit for cutting. - 

The a/rtichohe is another thistle, like the last-named, of an 
ornamental character, and more cultivated in this country. 
Eaten raw, or only jnst warmed, as is common in France, it is 
as indigestible as nuts, which it mnch resembles; but well 
boiled till it is quite soft, it may be eaten with impunity even 
by invalids. After an early dinner it makes a good dish for 
supper. 

Chestnuts are a very good substitute for potatoes with 
white meat or fowl. They should be thoroughly well boiled, 
skinned, and served up in a hot dry napkin. Home-grown 
chestnuts are the best, being more mealy and powdery than 
those imported. A sweet soup also may be made of chestnuts 
rubbed through a sieve ; but I cannot recommend the polenta, 
cake, and bread made of this nut, which are so popular in 
Italy. It requires a long education to accustom the digestion 
to them. 

Vegetable marrmo, squashy elector's cap, and a few other 
sorts of pumpkin are wholesome diluents, but do not form a 
substantive diet. The same may be said of the tomato. Care 
should be taken that they are ripe, or they cause colic. 

Peas and broad beans should be young, and their skins 
tender enough to crack in boiling. If they are past the time 
of life for this to happen, they should be chopped, mashed, or 
otherwise broken up ; for the unbroken skins are very leathery. 
The longer they are boiled, the harder they get. 

Dried peas, split peas, are deprived of their skins already ; 
so that if well boiled, as in soup or pudding, they are very 
good for food for robust people. 

It appears wasteful to throw away the outer shell of the 
pea. It contains a great deal of nutritious matter, but it is 
not nice in the commoner sorts. There has been lately intro- 
duced a new pea, the shell of which is edible, and seems whole- 
some. 



38 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

French hearts, from the kidney bean and scarlet mnner, are 
still more required to be yonng and tender. 

White hearis are the ripe seeds of the same plants. They 
are not popular in ilngland, apparently because they do not 
blend well as an adjunct to meat. But eaten alone with a 
piquant sauce, they are a most palatable variety of dish, and 
certainly nutritions. 

Lentils, again, are too much neglected. They make a 
capital soup, resembling pea soup. The peculiar flavour of 
lentil flour, which is distasteful to some persons (remind- 
ing them of garden seeds they say), may be masked by 
adding to it some sugar and Indian com flour or fine barley 
meal. Or if it is wanted for soup, a few bits of celery or 
asparagus cover the objectionable taste completely. It is 
sold under the name of revalenta arabica at a higher price 
considerably than is charged for it as lentil flour at a corn- 
dealer's. 

Mushrcems are best when grown in an open meadow. 
When forced they are tough and indigestible, and when 
preserved they are tasteless as well. A meadow mushroom 
should peel easily, and it should be of a clean pink colour 
inside, like a baby's hand, and have a frill or ^ curfcain ' (as 
botanists call it), attached to the stalk. When the gills are 
brown they are growing old and dry, and losing their nutri- 
tive qualities. The above-described agaricus campestris is the 
queen of its class for cooking purposes in England. It is 
true there are several other similar fungi eatable, and eaten 
by experimentalists ; but my experience of them is that their 
flavour is inferior, and that we lose nothing by the safe rule 
of adhering to the one we know well by sight. 

The Gigantic Puffball makes excellent ketchup, and can be 
eaten in the shape of fiitters. It must be large and very 
white, like a great bleached skull. When discolonred it is 
beginning to ripen its spores, and is then poisonous. 

The morelh, the fan-shaped chanterelle, and the black 
trujffle should be sweet and fresh. The odour of the last-named 



ox THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 39 

when decomposed is so horrible that one can hardly &ncy its 
being tolerated ; yet I have known a cook nse truffles in this 
state, and say she thonght it was the right smelL 

Materials for salad. — Here again, as in the case of winter 
greens, the plants nsed are so many and Tarioas that to enu- 
merate them would be as tedious as useless, and to describe 
their several tests of salubrity would require more horticul- 
tural knowledge than I possess. Repelled by the barbarous 
and barren aspect of a list of their technical names, I was 
comforted by the recollection of a scene of long ago. A party 
of young gentlemen and ladies were earnestly disputing about 
the nomenclature and specific differences of certain plants, and 
appealed to grandpapa, an elderly P&risian: he settled the 
matter in a moment — * Eh^ mes cherSj ce sonl des salades,^ I 
shall imitate him in condensing them into a class. 

Vegetables intended to be used for salad should all be fresh 
and crisp, and sweet and dean. Their colours should be 
positive and even, the reds very red, the whites very white, 
and the greens pure as those in an autumn sunset sky, except 
in the ftdl-grown leaves such as watercress. The salad ought 
to be dressed by one of the daughters of the house, after she 
has herself dressed for dinner, singing, if not with voice, with 
her dean cool fingers, sharp silver knife, and wooden spoon, 

* Weaving spiders, come not here ; 

Hence, yon long-legged spinners, henoe : 
Beetles black, approach not near ; 

Worm nor snail, do no o£fence.' 

The purity of the bowl is more important than that of Titania*s 
bower. So wiU the guests eat it with light hearts, fi«e from 
all fears of noxious ingredients. 

With a little trouble, not however necessarily attended by 
expense, a succession may be provided of materials for salad 
all the year round, so as to have one at table eveiy day. And 
a great preservative of health I. believe it to be for hearty 
persons. The most difficult season to provide for is the latter 
end of the winter, and it may be of use to mention that the 



•I 



- "i 



40 GENERAL BIETETICS. 

dandelion is then a friend in need. K a pot be placed over 
the plant as it growg, or the leaves tied up like lettuce, or it 
be transplanted into a frame, it can be bleached, and thus 
loses its bitterness. Daisy leaves are also eatable ; and thus 
with a sprig of tarragon, a few cold potatoes, and some ever- 
constant mustard and cress, giant cress, Australian or curled 
cress, an olive or two pared thin, or some beet-root and a 
slice of Madeira onion, a great variety of combinations may 
be made. Indeed, an inventive lady, with a well-furnished 
cruet stand, a bottle of Worcester sauce, and some moutarde 
de Maille, might provide a different salad every day of the 
year. These * scratch * salads are very much improved by a 
table-spoonfdl of light white wine. Watercresses rather spoil 
salad, and are best eaten alone, so as to make a variety when 
nothing else can be obtained. And the same may be said of 
radishes, and of endive, which are too strong in flavour to 
combine well. 

Some persons are very fond of tomatoes sliced raw, and 
eaten as a salad with oil and vinegjir. They appear to be 
quite digestible in this state, if ripe. 

Celery and <yucumher raw are not suitable for eating after a 
heavy meal. The quantity of woody fibre in them adds an 
additional load to the stomach, at a time when all its powers 
are required. With bread and cheese, as a light lunch, they 
give an agreeable zest, and seem to stimulate the secretion of 
gastric juice. That is the time for their admirers, and they 
are many, to enjoy them. 

The selection of mere flavouring herbs, such as onions, 
garlic, mint, tarragon, &c., is not a matter for the dietician to 
discuss. He may, however, say one word in favour of tem- 
perance in their employment. An excess makes us unpleasant 
to our neighbours ; and disguising the true flavour of the 
meat, it leads to our putting up with an inferior article. The 
object to be aimed at in their use is to promote the secretion 
of digestive solvents ; and the degree in which they attain 
this object may be judged by the watering of the mouth ; a 



.f ■• 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD# 41 

wliiff of them excites the flow of saliva, a oopious dose runs 
it dry. 

The prodnce of the kitchen garden, classed according to 
the main objects which its nse serves, may be divided as follows, 
the order adopted in each class being a rough estimate of the 
plant's average value as an esculent. 

1 . Starchy and sugary plants. — Potatoes, yams, chestnuts, 
beans, lentils, peas, Jerusalem artichokes, carrots, parsnips, 
beetroot, salsisify, turnips. 

2. Stimulants, — ^Asparagus, wild onions, artichokes, strong 
onions, garlic, and other substitutes, aromatic herbs and other 
flavours, mustard, cress, and a ffew other pungent salad 
materials. 

3. Antiscorbutics, — Cabbages, tomatoes, and salad mate- 
rials in general. 

4. Diluents, — Cabbages, spinach, turr.ip-tops, winter greens, 
broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, sorrel, nettle-tops, and 
in short any leaves suflB.ciently palatable to eat and soft to 
swallow, which are gree;n when boiled. 

The use of the first class is obvious from the powers 
assigned to starch and sugar by the investigations quoted in 
the last chapter. Each of these vegetables is a direct food 
contributing to the force of the body in health. How under 
certain circumstances some, or all, become unsuitable, will be 
spoken of in a future part of the volume. 

The effect of stimulating vegetables is to cause an increased 
secretion of saliva and gastric juice, thus enabling a greater 
quantity of food to be dissolved. 

Anti-scorhutics seem to act by contributing some of the 
materials of the blood of lesser amount, though of importance 
to the general vigour of the constitution. Herodotus im- 
plicitly attributes the activity and healthiness of the Persian 
race to the variety of fruit and vegetables consumed by them. 
And I feel sure that the puniness, infertility, pallor, fetid 
breath, and bad teeth, which distinguish some of our town 
populations, is to a great extent due to their inability to get 



42 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

these articles of tbe table fresh. The watercress seller is one 
of the saviours of her country. The consumption of lettuce 
with his tea is an increasing habit worthy of all encourage- 
ment in the working man, but he must be warned of the 
importance of washing the material of his meal. 

The last hint is given in view of the frequency of the 
occurrence of the large ' round worm ' (ascaris lumhricoides) 
in the labouring population of some agricultural counties, 
such as Oxfordshire for example, where nnwashed lettuce is 
ofben eaten at this meal. Naturalists will not allow us to 
think that the creature is a lob- worm, altered by its birth in 
an abnormal habitat. But at all events its ova will live for 
years in moist earth,* and may easily be brought in from the 
garden, which has been manured from all sources. 

Diluents contain a large proportion of woody fibre and 
chlorophyll, which are little, if at all, soluble in the secretions 
of the stomach, and are not converted into sugar by the saliva, 
as starch is. And they are not liable to be removed by absorp- 
tion like water, the most universal diluent. Their use would 
appear to be to get mixed up with the nitrogenous articles of 
food, so that the mass may be permeated by the gastric juice 
and presented gradually to the absorbents. Like gelatine, 
though apparently not Nutritious themselves, they make other 
things nutritious. Their benefit is made manifest by the 
improved action of the bowels after their employment. 



§ 5. Feuit. 

Fruit is hardly ever eaten except because it is nice. A very 
good reason no doubt, but one that rather removes the con- 
sideration of the subject from the scope of the dietician. 

The safest time for taking fruit is in the morning or after- 
noon with stale bread and a draught of water. Thus may be 
made a very wholesome and digestible lunch. The worst time 

* Daraine, quoted in Eeynolds' System of Medicine^ voL iii. p. 194. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 43 

is after a heavy dinner. Adults often complain that they 
cannot enjoy fruit as their girls and boys do ; the fact is they 
eat it at a wrong hour of the day. 

Grapes, figs, peaches, cherries, oranges, and strawberries, 
may be considered to be the most digestible ; plums, apples, 
pears, and apricots are less so ; while melons, and other cold 
watery things, are not only indigestible themselves, but 
prevent digestion. 

In selecting oranges, especially for our patients, it is best 
to take those with the greenish calyx still adhering to them ; 
they are the juiciest and npest. The fewer pips, the better the 
orange, or lemon, or grape. 

Nuts and almonds have not justice done them by nature. 
They contain an enormous proportion of a valuable nitrogenous 
aliment, which in the latter exceeds half its weight, and is called 
' emulsin * from its diffusibility without solution in water ; 
yet this is so cut off by its natural concentration and hardness 
from the action of the gastric juice, that it is scarcely digested 
at all, unless chewed and cooked much more than usual. 
When chosen for food, they should be used in extreme mode- 
ration, and at a time when the stomach is at leisure, and can 
devote all its powers to their solution. When pounded and 
employed as a flavouring, they are innocent enough. Frying 
them with butter, salt, and pepper, makes a tasty and whole- 
some hot dish for dessert. 

Cookery, breaking up the texture of all fruit, makes it 
« much more easy of digestion. 

The Jews, who eat much fruit, assign that habit as a reason 
why their people suffered less than others from cholera, during 
recent invasions of the epidemic. But it may be remarked 
that they sell a good deal of fruit, as well as eat it, and may 
possibly be prejudiced in favour of the trade. It can hardly 
be wise to consume more fruit than usual, at a time when 
a chance looseness of bowels is often the exciting cause of a 
fatal affection of the system, excited by the special poison 
then prevalent. 



44 GENERAL DIETETICS. 



§ 6. Groceries and Chandlery. 

Kecent legislation aboat adulteration has been directed more 
against the grocer than against any other of onr purveyors. 
The stores he sells have all gone through a process of manu- 
facture, which alters their natural aspect, and therefore gives 
great facility to fraud. The fraud consists in mixing a 
cheaper substance with a more expensive, and disguising the 
mixture. The disguise may be deleterious to health, or it may 
not, or it may even make the compound more wholesome, but 
the fraud is the same. In these pages, however, we have to 
do only with those adulterations which render the goods les$ 
fit for consumption as food. 

The line will be taken of shortly pointing out the charac- 
teristics of the best articles, without attempting to enumerate 
the sophistications to which they might possibly be subjected, 
but against which the possession of good characteristics 
practically warrants them. To detect the special method by 
which bad groceries are made bad, requires the detector to 
be as acute as the rogue he is trying to expose ; and unless he 
makes that his sole ambition in life, he is not likely to succeed* 
Money-making is a much stronger stimulus to invention than 
the love of truth. If a customer suspects adulteration, he 
will act wisely to place the matter in the hands of the legally 
established analyst of his district, the expense of the proceed- 
ing being now made very moderate.^ 

Tea.^ — The uses of tea are — 

> Not less than 2^. Sd. and not more than 10^. 6d, 

' I take the opportunity of the first mention of a purely foreign product, 
to say that the most interesting way of enlarging our ideas on the subject of 
food production, is to spend an afternoon now and then at a classified col- 
lection of living economic plants, such, for instance, as that at the Botanical 
Gardens, Regent's Park. It is much pleasanter to think of tea as connected 
with the pretty little camelia it comes from, than with blue paper packets ; 
and the despised * grounds ' will for ever after acquire an interest in our 
minds. Who would have expected pepper, and ginger, and rice, and sugar 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 45 

1st. To give an agreeable flavour to warm water required 
as a drink. 

2nd. To soothe tlie nervous system when it is in an 
uncomfortable state from hunger, fatigue, or mental excite- 
ment. 

The best tea, therefore, is that which is pleasantest to the 
taste of the educated customer, and which contains most of 
the characteristic sedative principles. The sedative principles 
in the leaf consist of an essential oil — which may be smelt 
strongest in the finest teas, weakest in the inferior sorts, 
entirely absent in fictitious teas — and of the alkaloid thfdnej 
which may be demonstrated by heating some tea dry in a 
silver pot, when the salt will appear as a white bloom on the 
metal. If there is any bouquet at all, or any theme at all, in 
the specimen examined, it is worth something. 

The shortest way to test the comparatwe value of different 
specimens is to put a tea-spoonful of each in one of the little 
china tea-pots or cups with covers, here used as ornaments, 
but originally intended for this very purpose, which has been 
previously made quite hot. Shake the tea about in the hot 
pot a few seconds, and then pour on, quite boiling, a small half- 
cup of water on each. Cover them up quickly, and let them 
stand by the fire about a minute. Taste them immediately 
without milk or sugar, and choose that which has most 
aroma. 

On examination of the contents of the pot after use, there 
will be found in good specimens very little of the dust or 
broken leaves. The said dust, in fact, consists of the sweep- 
ings of the warehouses which the Chinese manufacturers make 
up with rice starch into pellets, and use to adulterate the real 
article, under the name of * Lie tea,' which expresses its 
character very well. The hot water dissolves it again into 
genuine dirt. 

to look as they do when growing ? No consumption of midnight oil over 
botanical books, gives so much real knowledge as this short hour of healthy 
observation. 



46 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

As tea is made from more than one variety of plant and 
from leaves at different periods of maturity, the shape and 
other characteristics of the foliage are not very distinctive ; bnt 
I think, as a general rule, that, after infasion, the best leaves 
are the thickest and pulpiest in texture. 

Grreen tea, normally, contains much more of the essential 
oil than black ; but then its higher price offers a great temp- 
tation to frauds, and if it is used, more care is needed in its 
selection. 

Cheap black tea sometimes owes its cheapness to the 
admixture of leaves damaged by damp, or which have been 
actually used and redried. This is easily detected by the 
scent, but as there still remains a quantity of tannin and 
colouring matter, people will use it, and think they have got 
an article worth the price it is sold at. However, good hay, 
or a bunch of wild thyme or mint, would really afford a 
pleasanter and wholesomer drink. The dried colouring matter 
is quite insoluble, and the tannin makes the aliment with which 
it comes in contact insoluble, and indigestible also. 

The chemicals used to put a * face,* or agreeable aspect, 
on bad tea are not poisonous, being simply so much inert 
dirt. They consist of indigo, prussian blue, whitewash, 
plaster of Paris, heavy spar, and the like ; new things being 
substituted as the old ones get found out. Their presence, 
however, shows that the tea is more or less bad, or it would 
not have been faced. 

The finest teas colour the water the least. The finest of 
all, in Europe, the yellow tea which comes overland ihrough 
Russia, obtainable at Frankfort, and well worth obtaining, 
communicates only a slight tinge to the infusion. These 
luxuries are best enjoyed with a slice of lemon in lieu of milk, 
and very little sugar. 

In using tea, it must be remembered that the small-leaved 
and fine-grained tea packs much closer than the coarse, that 
consequently nearly double the quantity may be contained in 
a spoonful, and therefore fewer spoonfuls are required. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 47 

Coffee contains more of its special exhilarating alkaloid 
(Caffeine) than tea, but somewhat less essential oil. It should 
not be kept at the boiling point, or it loses this virtue. 

The surest way to have genuine coffee is to purchase it in 
the bean, with the aromatic scent (which shows that it has 
been recently roasted) still in it, and grind it yourself. It is 
easy to add chicory if you think it improves the flavour, but 
as that root contains no alkaloid, the beverage is weaker in 
quality. This is desirable under certain circumstances, to 
be discussed in the second and third part of the volume. A 
further security is to buy the beans raw, and roast them at 
home over charcoal ; the trouble is repaid by the delicious 
incense, which alone, among the operations of cookery, it 
diffuses through the house. 

If you have an opportunity of getting it direct from the 
importer, you will find the best coffee is that from Guatemala. 
It is probably re-christened * Mocha ' in the shops. The 
smallest and roundest beans are the best. The long oval 
bean from the West Indies ought to be a good deal cheaper. 

Cocoa and ChocolcUe, — * Cocoa nibs ' is the most eligible 
form in which the plant can be used as a mere beverage, like 
tea or coffee. They are the seeds merely broken up by rough 
grinding. But much of the nutriment is wasted in the thick 
grounds ; so that if what is wanted is a supporting food, 
^ther these must be well stirred up in the draught, or the 
extract of the seeds, ' chocolate,' must be used. This contains 
a large quantity of fatty matter and may be made a meal of. 

Chocolate is an article so disguised in the manufacture 
that it is impossible to tell its purity or value. Indeed, the 
makers say it is improved by adulteration, and cannot be sold 
without. The only safeguard is to buy that which bears the 
name of a reputable maker. 

Sugar. — The baser sort, * moist brown,' always contains 
dirt, sand, and mites. If it is dissolved in warm water, the 
heavy dirt falls to the bottom, and the mites float on the sur- 
fetce, affording an interesting object for the microscope. 



48 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Grocers get from handling it psoriasis palmarum or * grocer's 
itch,' so it can hardly be a desirable condiment to eat raw. 
Besides this, a clerical friend of mine was informed by a large 
and religions grocer in a mannfactaring town, that he found 
it impossible to compete in price with his rivals, without 
adulterating intentionally the whole of his brown sugar. And 
he stated (not under the seal of confession) that one of the 
materials used for colouring, was a mineral of a deleterious 
nature, but he declined to name it. as, seemingly, in this in- 
stance cunning has advanced ahead of detection. 

The obvious moral is always to use loaf sugar or sugar 
candy, the sophistication of which does not answer. 

Treacle. — Common treacle is the waste which drains off 
from the moulds in which refined sugar is made. It contains 
a considerable quantity of dirt, acids, extractive matter of 
donbtful quality, and salts, so that it sometimes acts as a 
purgative. ' Golden drop ' is prepared by filtering this stuff 
through charcoal ; it should be clear and light in colour, and 
is then a wholesome article. 

Grape sugar is used in England only to adulterate that 
from the cane ; its sale might with propriety be prohibited. 
But, in Portugal, grape juice is boiled down with quinces into 
a sort of jam, the etymological ancestor of all the marmalades 
' — ^whose name is derived from * marmelo ' the Portuguese for a 
quince. Let not the reader be beguiled by a poetical regard 
for grapes or quinces into eating it. My specimen was a 
present direct from a country estate in the south, and tasted 
like gritty molasses and onions. The giver informed me it 
was very wholesome, but used only by servants and farm- 
labourers. 

Eaisvns, Sultanas, Currants, Figs, and Dates, are the dried 
fruits preserved by their own uncrystallisable sugar. The rrnis- 
catel rasvns are the best, and are prepared by allowing the 
grape to dry on the vine ; the inference from which is that 
expedients used to hasten the process are inexpedient. The 
best evidence of the goodness of these articles is their plump*. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 49 

ness and softness, combined with the absence of mites, aa 
tested by infasion in water, in the mode recommended for 
brown sugar. Mites are not known to be poisonous, but they 
destroy the saccharine constituents, leaving only feculent 
remains and exuviss, and converting the remainder into 
carbonic acid. Now, it is for their saccharine constituents 
that we employ these dried fruits, both cooked and un- 
cooked. It may be remarked, also, that the skins are very 
insoluble, those of all sorts of the grape containing a large 
quantity of white wax, which in fact waterproofs the tex- 
ture, and prevents its penetration by aqueous fluid. So they 
should always be split before using in the kitchen. Cakes 
made of unsplit currants are especially to be avoided, as 
they are apt to produce pain and purgative effects in the 
most healthy. . 

Bice should be as whole and unbroken, and as free from 
dust and dirt as possible. The presence of weevils in it, con- 
stitutes a decidedly damaged article, which ought to be re- 
turned. In the future pages, when rice is spoken of in con- 
nection with puddings, the Carolina is intended ; for curries, 
or as a vegetable with meat, the Patna is used, since it best 
retains its form when steamed. Patna rice is also the most 
eligible thing to eat with jam, or rhubarb, or roast apples <fcc., 
for it has the least laxative action of all cereals, and thus 
QQunteracts the inconvenient tendency in that direction of the 
sweet parts of the dish. 

The preparations of wheat ordinarily sold by grocers, such 
as Semolina made from hard wheat rich in gluten. Macaroni^ 
Italian jpaste, Vermicelli^ made of flour from which the 
starch has been partially removed, are more nutritious than 
the flours of the corn-dealers ; but, at the same time, are less 
digestible from their being dried up so hard. They are not 
suitable to be used as vegetable dishes, for they are too nitro- 
genous for the purpose. But, if they are long boiled till quite 
soft, they form a substantial meal. The worst sort of macaroni 
is that stamped in the form of letters, for if it be sufficiently 

E 



50 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

boiled, the sHape of the letters is lost, and cooks do not like 
that. 

These preparations are apt to get * weevilly,' a state of 
things usually to be detected by the smell. 

Vinegar, — The best vinegar is that made from the acidified 
white wines of the Loire and Charente. British malt vinegar 
is deficient in the oenanthic ether which gives a bouquet to 
the more elegant article, is more apt to become mouldy and to 
breed worms, and is more often adulterated. As to distilled 
wood vinegar, although its fundamental composition is identi- 
cal with that of wine vinegar, yet it has not such a pleasant 
taste or smell as the latter, for the destructive distillation of 
the wood gives rise to some empyreumatic products of doubt- 
ful wholesomeness, of which traces always are to be found in 
the product. 

There seems nothing gained by scenting and flavouring 
vinegars. It prevents their being analysed, and thus excites, 
perhaps, unmerited suspicion. They smell like lotion, which 
is unpleasant at dinner. 

Vinegar owes its acidity to the acetic acid, which consti- 
tutes about a twentieth of its weight in French vinegar of 
good quality, and in British * proof ' vinegar 4*6 per cent, of 
anhydrous acid. As to other substances contained in the 
solution, tartrate and sulphate of potash, tannin, and oenanthic 
ether appear to improve the flavour without in any way 
affecting the health of the consumer. But it is not so with 
bulphuric acid, with which bad vinegar is adulterated. Sul- 
phuric acid — especially if cheap, impure oil of vitriol be em- 
ployed — cannot be considered harmless if used in the daily 
food, in the preparation of cabbage, or pickles, or salad, or 
made-dishes. The more it is cooked, the more concentrated it 
becomes, for the acetic acid is driven off* by the heat, while the 
mineral remains. The least injury it can do is to corrode th^ 
teeth, when present in excess. 

To avoid sulphuric acid entirely is, however, not possible, 
unless you make your own vinegar ; and this is really worth 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 51 

the trouble if yonr consumption is large. For the law allows 
the mann&ictnrer to introduce sulphuric acid to the extent of 
one part in a thousand (in France one gramme to one litre), 
and the article cannot be called adulterated if this amount iis 
not exceeded. The test recommended by the College of 
Physicians for insuring the goodness of British vinegar used 
in the preparation of medicine is a solution of 1 part of 
chloride of barium in 8 parts of water : of this 10 minims 
will precipitate all the sulphuric acid in an ounce of lawful 
vinegar. If, after this has settled down, the test solution still 
continues to form a cloud, the article should not be employed 
in the preparation of food. 

Besides sulphuric acid, cheap dirty vinegar sometimes con* 
tains lead and other metals. There was an epidemic of lead 
poisoning some years ago among the apprentices of a silk-mill 
at St. Albans, induced by pickled pork. This contamination 
is provided against in the Pharmacopoeia, by ordering the test 
of sulphuretted hydrogen to be used. 

Is it worth while to test or get tested such a mere condi-- 
ment as vinegar ? I think so, for it is really a most useful 
adjunct to the dietary. It possesses the property of softening 
and finally dissolving muscular fibre, as you may see by 
watching its action on a fragment under the microscope ; and, 
in virtue of this solvent action, it is wisely taken with those 
meats whose fibres are hard, and from their hardness insipid, 
such for example as boiled beef, fresh pork, brawn, salmon, -. 
tmmy, sturgeon, eels, lobsters, &c. The resolution also of 
the albumen in hard-boiled eggs is assisted by vinegar. Acids 
fovour the conversion of cellulose into sugar, which is the 
first stage of the digestion of the materials for salad — of 
cabbages, and other green leaves — and their employment in this 
class of dishes is strictly physiological. On the other hand, to 
put vinegar on beans is, in the strong language of Monsieur 
Cyr, * detestable ; ' ^ for it renders insoluble the legumine 

' Cyp, Traits de VJlimentationt p. 143. 
b2 



52 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

which is the most nutritions part of them, constitnting, in fact, 
from a quarter to a third of their substance.^ Cold boiled 
beans are sometimes made into a salad, and it is quite true, as 
M. Cjr says, that the addition of vinegar destroys the flavour, 
and, probably enough, makes it indigestible. Oil, pepper, 
mustard and a little white wine, make the best dressing. 
Beans are a favourite food for persons practising disciplinary 
abstinence, and the hint may be of use to them, though not 
appreciated by the unrestricted world. 

Oil. — ^M. Cyr places olive oil as the highest in order of 
digestibility of all fatty foods,^ even above fresh butter. But 
to merit that praise it must be thoroughly good, quite clear 
and transparent and free from rancid smell. The paler it is, 
the better. The white deposit sometimes seen is vegetable 
albumen, which ought to have been refined out, as it prevents 
the oil from keeping sweet. Lucca oil, which is the best, has 
a peculiar, agreeable odour, technically called 'nutty.' Olives 
gathered young and small are called * French olives,' and in 
this condition are the sort most adapted, by their pleasant 
piquancy, for eating as a relish. But to use in cookery they 
are indigestible and tasteless, and inferior to the fruit gathered 
at a later period of growth, when soft and pulpy with inci- 
pient oiliness, and called * Spanish olives.' These last, also, are 
best for salads. In Portugal, they refuse to gather them till 
they are just beginning to turn purple, and then they are 
bitter and not so digestible ; but I am informed by a Portuguese 
country gentleman that they might be just as good as the 
highest priofid French fruit, if the farmers would be persuaded 
to advance upon the traditions of their grandfathers.^ 

* In horse-beans 30*8 per cent., in Windsor beans 2905 per cent., in 
haricots blancs 26*6 per cent. — Payen, 

* Traite de t Alimentation, p. 122. 

* I take this opportunity of alluding to the trade custom of designating 
peculiar qualities or kinds of food by local names. No fraud is intended, 
and any legislation which would make the transaction a fraud, would be 
unjupt. The words • Spanish ' and • French ' do not mean that the olives come 
from Spain or Prance, but that they are of the sort made in those countries. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 53 

Caviar shotild be soft, pale in colour, and exhibiting the 
ova of tibe roe quite distinct. When old and black, and 
homogeneous in texture, it is out of season and rancid, and 
arrests digestion. It is wise never to eat it when you see it 
served carelessly with cold, withy toast. It should be sent up 
in a toasted-cheese dish. 

Pickles, — Grocers appear to consider that the final use of 
pickles is to ornament shops : so they choose them for the 
brilliancy of their colours and the elegance of the arrangement 
of their contrasted forms in the bottle. The consequence is 
that all sorts of expedients, some of them highly deleterious, 
are used by manufacturers to enhance * the fatal gift of beauty.' 
In twelve samples of pickles taken indiscriminately and exa- 
mined in behalf of the State Board of Health of Massachusetts 
by Mr. Hill, last year, ten were found tq contain copper by the 
simple process of dipping in them a steel knitting needle, 
which in a few hours became coated with the metal. Nine 
of the samples were also examined for alumina, and found to 
contain it, showing that alum had been used, probably to 
intensify the lake tints. (Fourth Annual Report, Boston, 
1873). 

Bla/ik pepper in powder is another article which the con- 
scientious grocer, lately mentioned, declared he could not sell 
at a profit without increasing its bulk by artificial means. It 
does not, however, appear that any of the dirt introduced is 
to the knowledge of the adulterators deleterious to health. 
The simple safeguard is to buy the pepper in com. 

Bed pepper when pure is entirely suspended when rubbed 

A large quantity of ' Ostend rabbits' used to come to the London market 
from near Marseilles, but an importer told me they were bred, fed, killed 
and skinned like * Ostend rabbits,' and therefore to all intents and purposes, 
' Ostend rabbits.' So a wine-merchant that sells his prime claret as '*Ch&- 
teau Margaux,' is committing no fraud, if his wine is as good as Ch&teau 
Margaux, though it might be proved to have never seen that famous pro- 
perty. Furriers are in the habit of calling tabby-cats' skins 'Japanese 
lynx,' and the best * plover s eggs ' are usually laid by gulls on the East 
coast : in neither case is there any intention to deceive. 



54 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

in warm water. If a red deposit falls, it is generally red lead, 
a noxioas metal. 

Mustard is nsnally adulterated by the grinders with flonr 
and turmeric, which are not injurious to health, so that the 
verification of the drug becomes a question for the economist, 
not for the dietician. 

Spices, in general, should not be purchased ground. And 
it is a prudent proceeding for members of our profession to 
take the opportunity offered them by the liberality of the 
Society of Apothecaries, and lay in, at the wholesale market 
price, a stock of the purest and best spices. They have, thus, 
test articles which they can compare with those furnished in 
* our village.' It will sometimes be found that the latter, even 
with the grocer's profit on them, are the cheapest ; and then 
of course they must be adulterated or damaged goods. 

Bacon and Sam^ when properly prepared and not rusty, 
give us a fat much more digestible and therefore more nutri- 
tious than that of fresh pork. The process of salting, and still 
more that of slowly drying or smoking, removes a great 
quantity of the water, and coagulates the serum, which tend 
to make the adipoEe matter readily run into rancidity. What 
we have to do in selection is to see that the removal of water 
is carried as far as possible, and this is accomplished by 
observing the loss of weight in cooking. Primest bacon, 
according to Dr. Letheby, should not lose much above a tenth 
in boiling ; and ham wastes much less. 

Sausages. — After the sensational descriptions of their manu- 
facture, sent to journals by special correspondents, it may be 
presumed no one eats sausages, without some aquaintance with 
the person who has prepared them. There is, or was, in Oxford 
a large open window through which one could see a stalwart 
maiden, with her arms glowing from frequent immersion in 
cold water, chopping and stuffing these savoury viands ; and I 
have a lively recollection of the pleasure with which I wel- 
comed them afterwards on the breakfast table. I have often 
thought since of the scene, when hearing the chopping 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 55 

machine going, in cellars and back premises in London, and 
have wondered that some honest maker has not taken the 
course of giving confidence by publicity* 

* German ' sausages are of unknown composition. 



§ 7. Dairy Pboduce. 

MilJe. — To people who do not keep their own cows, the pur- 
chase of milk is a matter of extreme importance, so much of 
it is used in every well-managed family, and so sensitive to 
noxious influences are the junior branches which are its 
assiduous consumers. But it must be confessed that to the 
exclusion of the noxious influences liable to be conveyed in 
milk, science affords very little help. There are machines for 
taking the specific gravity, of which the most convenient is 
the hydrometer sold by surgical instrument makers as a 
urinometer. And there are machines for measuring the 
quantity of cream, of which that generally used is the lacto- 
meter, devised by Sir Joseph Banks, a tall test-tube in which 
the cream rises to the top, and is simply measured.^ And for 
more accurate estimation we have Vogel's Galactoscope, in 
which instrument the quantity of cream is calculated by the 
degree of opacity caused by the thickness of a layer of 
milk necessary to obscure the light of a candle. By this, we 
may guess whether our milkman has put much or little water 
into the can, whether he has intentionally cheated us by 
selling the produce of the pump as that of the dairy ; but that 
has not much, if any influence on the appropriateness of the 
milk for food. K less strongly nutritious, diluted milk is 
quite as wholesome as undiluted, and more easily digestible. 
The cases which call for the use of such measures of commer- 
cial value are those of public institutions, such as hospitals, 
prisons, workhouses, where it is our business to make sure 

* Is it too late to revise the barbarous title of this instrument, and call 
it (say) the * Cream-reckoner ' ? 



56 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

tliat the poor persons towards whom we occnpy a paternal 
position are not defrauded of the limited nutriment supplied 
to them. If the milk comes from starved animals or from the 
pump, they ought to have more of it in just proportion. 

The real poisons whose possible presence throws a dark 
shadow over the enjoyment of this delicious drink, are quite 
independent of its richness or the reverse. They are those 
arising from an unhealthy condition in the cow, or in the 
human dwellers in the dairy, or fix)m gross carelessness in 
keeping its produce. After calving, the udder yields a 
thickish yellow fluid, somewhat stringy and greasier than 
ordinary milk, slightly reddening Utmus paper. 

Till this has ceased to be secreted, whether the period is a 
day or two, or as many weeks, the milk has a purgative action 
when raw, and even when boiled and made into a pudding, as 
is the custom of some parts, is of doubtful wholesomeness. An 
admixture of it in the dairy produce may be detected by 
skilful microscopic examination, which shows the presence of 
colostrum corpuscles. The best way to exhibit them is to 
mix some water with the colostrum, let it stand a few days 
till the cream has risen entirely, and then collect the sediment 
from the bottom of the test-tube, which will be found to con- 
sist entirely of them. Their measurement, according to Mandl, 
is about 77^77 ^^ ^^ ^^^^ ^^ diameter.^ Colostrum is apt to 
coagulate the milk like rennet. 

Of more serious importance is the presence of inflammatory 
or febrile disease in the cow. It is known by the appearance 
of blood or pus in the milk, but more readily by the sickening 
odour which exhales from it. If this is accidentally swallowed 
it disagrees strongly with the stomach, and if the disease is 
infectious, it may very probably be communicated in this way. 
A more likely way, however, for disease to be induced 
through milk, is its contamination during its transit from the 
cow to the customer. Where inmates of the farm have been 

' Dr. J. Davy in Med, Chir, Tramactions, xxviii. 82. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 67 

affected by typhoid fever, the infection has been carried to the 
families in the distant town supplied from that quarter. It 
is jnst possible that the germs of the malady may have settled 
in the milk from the air ; but a more probable supposition is 
that the subsoil water, and so the wells, had become contami- 
nated with the morbid secretions, and had been used in wash- 
ing the milker's hands, the pails, and pans of the dairy. In 
a recent notorious case, occurring in London in 1873, this 
seems to have been fairly proved to be the path of the invasion 
of typhoid ; but it would not have been proiied had not 
Dr. Murchison taken up the investigation with extraordinary 
energy and perseverance. This danger is unhappily not 
capable of being warded off by science. The fatal substance 
which brings typhoid fever into our bodies cannot be distin- 
guished from other organic matters, nor can its existence be 
made evident -by any chemical or microscopic observation. By 
its works alone, and too late, do we know it. The only 
possible protection lies in the scrupulous observation of dairy 
forms by sanitary inspectors, to report on any communication 
between the drains and wells, and instantly to warn the 
customers, if the farmers refuse to stop the sale of dangerous 
milk as human food. It would be a good plan for the custo- 
mers of any one establishment to appoint their own inspector. 

The evidence of the transmission of scarlatina by milk, is 
not so conclusive as in the case of typhoid. 

There are no other impurities injurious to health known 
to exist in the milk of our shops : caramel, brown sugar, salt, 
and carbonate of soda have been detected,^ but not the chalk, 
starch, brains, or other substances sometimes asserted to be 
employed as adulterants. 

Milk is sometimes rendered unwholesome in the customer's 
own house, by the vessels in which it is received not having 
been properly scoured out with soda. On stale milk, even 
in minute quantities, there very quickly germinates a blue 

> Fourth Annual Report of the State Board of Health, Massachusetts^ 
1873, p. 296. 



68 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

mould, such 843 is seen often on cream cheese, and called 
Didium lactis. The mixture of this, adhering to the comers 
of the can, with the fresh milk, causes it to turn sour, and to 
give rise to colic and diarrhoea, and, it is not unlikely, also to 
* thrush ' in children, for the crust which forms in the mouth 
is not a dissimilar form of mould. 

The purity of the milk supply is a matter of extreme 
importance, and fitly forms the subject of legislative inter- 
ference, provided always that the legislative interference be 
judicious and does not impede improvement by competition.^ 
It is a subject of pre-eminent importance to the healthy, above 
all others. I always feel indignant when I see advertised 
special milk, in sealed cans or otherwise, for the nursery or 
for invalids. As if the health of the sick and weakly were 
more important than that of the strong man, on whose arm 
those sick and weakly depend for existence. Let us keep our 
strong men well, and we shall have fewer invalids to attend to. 
In choosing between two shops, I should always prefer the 
one that did not advertise a special article. 

Cream,, when good, is thick, clouty and yellow. 

Buttermilk is one of the most wholesome summer drinks 
possible. It is equally refreshing and nutritious, and to see 
it given to pigs instead of being distributed to the neighbours 
makes the philanthropist's heart bleed. 

Whey from which the curd has been removed for the pur- 
pose of making cheese, is apt to be somewhat sour, from the 
rennet by which coagulation has been effected. But even 
then it is a pleasant summer drink, and is certainly very 
digestible, and rapidly absorbed, for it is in composition more 
like serum sangumis than anything else. A grate of nutmeg 
makes it very palatable. In Switzerland it is often drunk as 

' Of such injudicious sort would be, for example, the fixing an absolute 
standard of cream contents. The standard must be low, or much genuine 
milk would be condemned ; and then when any dealer got milk richer than 
the standard, he would water it down to the mark, and thus the pump would 
be more active than ever. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 69 

a diet drink, and the inliabitants have such a high opinion of 
its wholesomeness, that they have founded establishments for 
the special purpose of receiving patients for the cure of all 
sorts of diseases hj its means. This ^ Molken-Kur/ as it is 
called, does not however seem to suit English constitutions, 
unless starvation is required to be the principle of treatment, 
as is rarely the case. 

JwnkeU and Ourds are nutritious nitrogenous foods, but 
they require the stomach to be educated by use for them to 
be well borne in any valid quantity. Milton's mention of 
* the junkets ' seems to imply that they were formerly more of 
an ordinary diet in farm houses than now. 

Oondensed or * Siviss ' milk is a device for avoiding the 
risk of deterioration by shaking. Six-tenths of the water is 
dried out of it, and sugar is added as a preservative. It cer- 
tainly is digestible, as is shown by the fact of infants brought 
up by hand upon it growing fat, and apparently strong, a 
fact of which most of us have ocular proof. Great care 
should be taken that only the softest water is used for its 
solution, and precautions taken against its adulteration. As 
it is a recent invention it is pure enough at present, but 
extensive use will probably teach ingenious methods of so- 
phistication. 

Clotted cream is simply cream skimmed from heated milk. 
Great accuracy is necessary to secure the right temperature, 
yet the union of the offices of cook and dairymaid which it 
entails does not ensure accuracy. If the mistress of the 
household will make it a few times with her own hands, she 
will find no difficulty in producing a digestible article by 
observing the following precautions, and for very shame her 
example will be imitated. 

Clotted cream is simply cream raised by heat, so that a 
little albumen is partially coagulated along with it. Take a 
well-scoured stout saucepan (a broad copper one is best) and 
put a teacupf ul of quite cold water in it, then pour in the 
whole milk and heat it over a very slow fire (charcoal is best) 



60 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

till tlie cream rises ; when it does so, take care not to increase 
the heat, but keep it np. It should never exceed that which 
the finger can easily bear (about 150°). As the clot rises, 
divide it down the middle with the finger, and turn it back 
on itself. Keep doing this till there is no more formed. A 
hain-marie and a thermometer are a refinement upon this 
method. 

Bought clotted cream is apt to make the delicacy un- 
popular. It is often sour, and adulterated with sugar and 
flour. 

Butter^ like milk, is adulterated with an excess of water, 
which may be detected by boiling ; the oily matter floats, and 
the water underlies it. But neither in that, nor in any other 
detected &lsification is there any source of danger to health. 
Even when rancid and damaged butter is got up again in 
order for the market, the processes are such as to make it fit 
for food, though not so nice as when naturally sweet. The 
palate is a good guide ; but sometimes in autumn and winter, 
when the grass is scanty, the butter will be flavoured with the 
dead leaves or turnips which stingy farmers will let their 
cattle eat, and we must not condemn the article as unwhole- 
some because it is nasty at these times. 

Cheese. 

Classification of Cheeses ustuiUy in the Market, 

Cream cheeseB ; rGruelthorpe. 

\Neiich&tel. 
^Stilton. 



Cheeses made of whole milk rich in cream 



Double ' Gloucester. 
Roquefort. 
Gorgonzola. 
Cheshire. 
Cheddar. 
^Single Gloucester. 
Cheeses made of poor or partially skimmed Shropshire. 

milk i American. 

LNorth Wiltshire. 
-SuflTolk. 
Cheeses made of skimmed milk . . < Parmesan. 

^Dutch. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 61 

Cheese is required for two purposes ; one is for eating in 
small quantities as a iBlUp to the palate, and the other is in 
order that it may serve as a substantial food. For the first 
purpose it may be produced in a rancid, decayed state, and is 
best when of a rich buttery sort. But to be taken as a meal, 
to satisfy hunger, newer cheese is better. Poor cheeses, snch 
as the Dutch, are wholesome and digestible if cut in very thin 
slices and buttered. Toasted cheese is also digestible if it is 
new and lightly cooked with cream and butter. Tough 
toasted cheese is about as solnble as leather. 

Eggs, — To choose eggs, dissolve one ounce of common salt 
in half a pint of water, that is, ten fluid ounces measured with 
a medicine measure glass. In brine of this strength a good 
^^E '^^^ sink, a bad e^^ will float. If held up to a candle a 
fresh egg will be found to be more transparent than a stale 
one, or than one with a chicken in it. Fresh eggs are most 
transparent in the centre, stale ones at the end. 

If absolutely necessary, eggs may be preserved some time 
by rubbing them well with fresh grease when taken warm 
from the hen-house. But if they acqaire a smell of old straw 
they are unfit for food. Lime gives them a peculiar taste, 
and prevents the albumen setting. 

Bennet, — Rennet is not always to be obtained good in 
the country. It may be thus prepared for domestic use in 
making whey, junkets, &0, Take a calf *s * bag ' with the card 
in it (that is the fourth stomach, or abomasus,^ filled with acid 
chyle), pick out all the hairs, and wash bag and curd clean. 
Then, replace the curd in the bag with six or seven ounces 
of salt, and set them by for a week in a cool dairy. Then, 
take a strong brine, made of a quart of water to a pound of 
salt, and pour it cold on the rennet. When it has stood again 
for a week, the liquor is fit for use. 

* It is figured in ft volume previously referred to, Dalton*t Human 
Phytiologyt p. 105. 



62 GENERAL DIETETICS. 



§ 8. Bread Stuffs. 

There is no bread so digestible 849 that made by an honest, 
experienced baker. In baking at home yon secure the 
honesty, but you lack the experience. The chance has to be 
taken of a bad batch through some accident ; and then the 
best must be made of it till it is finished. 

If one had to live on bread alone, brown bread would 
perhaps be preferable, for (as Professor Liebig taught us) it 
contains in the bran and pollards, which are returned to it after 
grinding to make it brown, a considerable quantity of phos- 
phate of lime, valuable as nutriment to the bones and other 
tissues. But the fact is, most of us take in other ways plenty 
of phosphates in a more digestible form than bran, and the 
irritating effect which it has on the bowels shows that it is 
not, in this form, made much use of by them as a nutriment. 
White bread is generally chosen in preference by shrewd 
working men who wish to make the money spent on food go 
as fieir as it can. It is also far less likely to be withy and 
tough, and is less often adulterated. 

Not but that some admixture of the bran is pleasant, both 
to the eye and to the palate, as in the flour which is called 
* seconds,' which makes a very good bread, probably in con- 
sequence of this flour not being over-ground. Too much 
friction ruptures the starch granules, and the dough does not 
rise well. 

Bread should be evenly porous without any large holes, 
like a fine sponge. The texture should be firm, of which 
virtue the best t€st is the being able to cut it up into thin 
bread and butter. Tough, clammy, new bread becomes wadded 
together into an insoluble mass by chewing, is not penetrated 
by the saliva or gastric juice, ferments anew, and even in 
strong persons is apt to produce a disagreeable form of heart- 
bum. If from necessity it Trmst be eaten, heating and 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 63 

copious battering, as we heat rolls or cmnipets, is the best 
expedient to make it as digestible as circumstances admit. 

A considerable portion of water quickly evaporates from 
hot bread, causing of course a loss of weight, so that bakers 
will sometimes try to prevent it by covering up the loaves 
from the air. The crust is thereby rendered withy, and the 
crumb is wet and tough, besides which you are buying water 
at the price of bread. 

There is another and more objectionable way in which the 
loaf is forced to hold water in excess, that is the addition of 
boiled rice-flour. It is a sticky gummy paste, which renders 
the dough more adhesive, and prevents evaporation. So that 
21 quartern loaves are made with what ought to make only 20. 
They may be found out by their sodden bottoms, the water 
gravitating by standing. To shirk this test, bakers will 
turn them upside down on the shelves, which always looks 
suspicious. 

I am told by a retailer of glue that bakers buy a good 
deal of that substance, and the inference is that it is used in 
the same way to make the dough adhesive. 

It is said, also, that alum is added for the same fraudulent 
purpose, even to good flour. But its object, generally, is to 
make a damaged article bear a good white colour, and stop 
the excess of fermentation to which it is liable. Alum is 
easily detected in the laboratory by incinerating the bread 
suspected to contain it, and our analysts are active in this 
direction. However, they must guard against being too 
pedantic, and a distinct line must be drawn between a 
baker who habitually uses a great quantity of adulterant to 
dispose of flour which he has wilfully bought in a bad state, 
and one who now and then rectifies an accidental loss of good- 
ness by the employment of the drug. But certainly, the less 
alum he uses, the more he is to be trusted. 

The best bread grows stale the slowest. * Aerated bread,' 
where the dough is raised according to Dauglish's patent, by 
forcing pure carbonic acid into it, keeps better than any. It 



64 OENERAL DIETETICS. 

is free from the objectionable presence of the remains of the 
yeast, not to be avoided otherwise, and is more certain to be 
wholesome than ordinary bread. It is popnlar, too, at that 
test of palatable simplicity, the nnrsery tea table. 

Yeast IB a great difficulty with those who bake at home. 
Brewer's barm is the best, but it is apt to go dead between one 
baking and another, and is not easy to be got. Conntry trades- 
men object to sell it, bnt many retail bakers in London will 
engage to send regularly by post an ounce or two of * Grerman 
yeast,' which thus arrives quite fresh and active. An orderly 
cook can keep a ferment in constant action by starting it 
with some * German yeast ' from the regular manufacturers of 
that article, and feeding the mixture, placed in a cool situation, 
with some fresh malt and mashed potato or dough, daily. 

An acquaintance with the theory of fermentation as 
explained in all books of physiology, and recently made 
doubly instructive by the researches of M. Pasteur, will 
enable an educated person to point out the remedy for all 
difficulties encoxmtered in the kitchen. There is no more 
favourable subject for interesting unlettered minds in nature's 
wonders. I have seen a country congregation quite breathlessly 
attentive to an account from the pulpit of the recent addition 
to our knowledge on this head ; and I am sure that when their 
dough has risen well, they have remembered the moral im- 
pressed upon them. 

Biscmts are too hard for ordinary consumption as a bread 
stuff, if made from flour and water only, as * captains ' and 
* ship biscuits ' are. They are very useful, however, to 
travellers, in readiness for those frequent occasions on which 
the bread is tough, sour, bitter, or otherwise uneatable. They 
bear well exposure and rough treatment, and if soaked for a 
few hours in water or milk, they take up several times their 
own weight of fluid, soften and swell, and with a little cream 
and sugar make a dainty dish of eminent digestibility. 
Biscuit powder for infants should be made from this kind. 

Fancy biscuits are too numerous to describe, and of 
various merits. The addition of milk, sugar, eggs, flavours, 



OK THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 65 

Ac.y makos tHom less digostiblo than the plainer sort. Those 
made on a largo scale by bpecial manufacturers are the best, 
bocanso in them the partial raising of the dongh is effected by 
plain carbonic acid, instead of carbonate of ammonia. 

When biscuits become damaged, they are often damped 
and heated anew in the oven. They quickly lose the artificial 
newness thus acquired, and grow stale and musty. So they 
are safest purchased in tins, where they are not so likely to 
be tampered with. 

Oatmeal, — The coarsely ground Scotch oatmeal is the 
most suitable both for porridge and cakes. If imperfectly 
boiled, as when prepared in a hurry, or intentionally unboiled 
aa in brose, it is extremely indigestible, and produces the 
most obstinate cases of pyrosis in the parts of the country 
where it is habitually used. But when well boiled, and eaten 
slowly so as to become well mixed with saliva, it is a most 
wholesome as well as most nutritious food. An oaten diet 
has bred the Scotch farmer and the English horse, and where 
will their equals be found P 

Emden grits are the best adapted form of oats for gruel. 

Barley and rye do not appear to possess any dintinctive 
virtues which can give them an interest in the eyes of a 
medical man. Though useful when other cereals are not to be 
got, they are inferior to them in solubility and nutritive power, 
and, at the same time, have not the attractive taste which 
would cause them to be a temptation against which a warning 
is necessary. 

Ma/ize in various forms is often recommended as a valuable 
food. It contains a good deal of fattening matter, and on 
that account is used for fattening geese at Strasburg, and 
other domestic animals elsev^hcre. But its oleaginous con- 
stituents in(;line it readily to grow rancid, when it has a fusty 
disflgrec^able smell. When stale, therefore, it is apt to disagree, 
and in horses often causes a sort of eczema of the skin. To 
our race, damaged maize, persisted in as a food, is still more 
deleterious, producing, for example, in Lombardy and the 

F 



66 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Valtelina, a special endemic cntaneons disease — Pellagra — 
which is year by year slowly widening its filial shadow over 
the finest lands tilled by man.^ 

Maize flonr may be refined and made safer by washing ont 
the nntritive portion with alkalies, and in this state professes 
to constitute * oswego,' * maizena,' * com-flonr,' &c. But the 
eater should understand that he has before him starch only, 
and must not reckon on it for nitrogenous nutriment. The 
economist will probably think he can buy starch cheaper in 
the form of rice flour, which, indeed, is often sold under these 
fancy names, according to the evidence of Dr. Bartlet before 
the Adulteration Committee this summer. 

Other forms of Starch commonly sold. 

Arrowroot (West Indian best). 

Cassava meal. 

Potato starch (uncoloured). 

Sago (unbleached best). 

Sago meaL 

Salop. 

Tacca starch, or • Otaheite Arrowroot.* 

Tapioca. 

Tapioca meal, or 'Brazilian Arrowroot.* 

Tous-les-mois (West Indian). 

The only preference that can be given to one of these over the 
other depends upon its flavour. All are equally wholesome, 
and equally suitable for the occasions when a physician wishes 
to administer starch without admixture. 

' The Pellagra is the punishment of sin. The farmers, cultivating their 
lands on the metayer system, the landlord and tenant dividing the crop, are 
tempted to hide some of the grain in holes and comers, where it gets 
mouldy. They find it makes their fowls ill, so they eat it themselves ! See 
Lombroso, Sulla Pellagra^ where figures are given of the peculiar mould to 
which the author attributes this very serious plague. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 67 

§ 9. Alcoholic Drinks. 

Wins, — ^Tliis is a subject terribly overladen with literature, 
historical, poetical, industrial, scientific, and occasionally non- 
sensical. So that a simple purchaser who wants to know how 
to get a good wholesome glass of wine, has no small difficulty 
in winnowing out the required information from so much 
chaff. 

The first thing a householder should think of before he 
stocks his cellar, is — what he wants the wine for. Is it to 
take as a regular beverage, or on festive occasions only? 
Does he intend to employ it for himself or others as a medicine^ 
or to drink it only because it is nice ? Here are the four 
chief uses of wine, and different wines are suitable for each. 

As a regular beverage for a healthy person there is no wine 
in the English market eqnal to claret. The intelligence and 
perseverance of the Bordelais vintager, improving yearly on 
the traditional experience of centuries, does the best that cail 
be done for a very good grape. Nothing can be more perfectly 
made than the greater part of the low-priced Bordeaux wine, 
now brought over direct from the Gironde. 

Everybody distinguishes in the grape three parts, viz., the 
pulp, the stones^ the skin. It is on the forms and degreed 
of pressnre exerted to exttuct the juice, that the presence of 
these several parts in different proportions in the wine depends. 
In the pulp is the syrup, which ferments into alcohol, the 
amount of which constitutes the value of the wine. So as 
mnch of that as possible is got otit. In the stones are essential 
oils, which in delicately graduated moderation are wanted to 
contribute to the formation of vinond ethers as a * bouquet.' 
In the skin and stalks is tannin, necessary to give astringency 
and preserve the liquid from mouldiness ; and there are also 
colouring matter and extractive, which contribute a distinctive 
hue, a thickness or * body,' and fruitiness. There are, too, in 
the juice, tartaric acid and its salts in considerable quantity, 
and citrates and malates in smaller amount : these are rather 

F 2 



6S GENERAL DIETETICS. 

necessary evils than desirable ingredients, and the owner is 
glad to see his most deposit the greater part of them in the 
' tartar ' — a prodnct of the vintage for which he expressed his 
dislike by the bad name he gave it in the old days of strong lan- 
guage. * There is also some nitrogenous matter, which in under- 
going chemical changes acts as a ferment, and having done its 
work, ought to disappear, lest it should re-establish fermenta- 
tion when not required. Now, the perfection of claret, above 
all other wines, consists in the manuf actnre being so conducted 
that each of these elementary constituents of the grape is 
expressed in exactly the proportion most conducive to the 
wholesomeness of an alcoholic beverage. 

If any of the above-named ingredients, or their products, 
exhibit themselves conspicuously in the perfected liquor, a 
peculiar character is given to it, which causes it to be sought 
out for real or supposed advantages, or avoided for real or 
snpposed evils. We can, thus, classify wines as they appear in 
the market, in the following groups : — 

1. Strong dry wines, — In these the symp of the must has 
been in large proportion, and has fermented thoroughly into a 
large proportion of alcohol. 

2. Strong sweet tvines. — Here the sngar has either existed 
naturally in such excess, or, more commonly, has been added in 
such excess, as to stop fermentation and remain sweet. 

3. Aromatic wines, whose chief feature is a delicate diffusible 
odour comparable to that of flowers, and thence termed 
* bouquet^ This depends on the union of sundry essential oils 
with the alcohol in a nascent state, by which cenanthic and 
other volatile ethers are produced. 

4. Add wines, whence the natural acid cannot be eliminated 
without destroying the flavour. The acid in them is mostly 
tartaric, and not acetic, as in wines that have turned sour. 

5. SjpaMing wines, — Here the ferment is not allowed 

' Sal Tartari = ' hell-salt : * Cremor Tartari = * hell-scum,' cream of 
tartar. The history of the word is not known, but Paracelsus found it in 
u^e in his day. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 69 

1 

entirely to exlianst itself before bottling, so that it goes on 
slowly under severe pressure, and saturates the wine with 
carbonic acid, at the same time giving birth to flavours which 
would not otherwise be produced, and to very exhilarating 
ethers, without much alcphol. 

6. JPerfect wines, where as many of the above qualities 
as possible are combined without interfering with one another. 

7. Rough wines, in which the astringent tannin is predomi* 
nant. 

1. Strong dryvnnes&re well represented by sherry, which is 
the strongest and driest of all ; and it is ably supported by 
Port, Madeira, Marsala, Johannisberg, and a few (very few) 
others of the products of Northern grapes. These all contain 
too much alcohol to drink dietetically ; much diluent must be 
taken at the same time to make them wholesome. But for 
festive use, to take a glass thereof to promote conversation 
and good fellowship, they are excellent. And^ except Marsala, 
they are well qualified for that post by agreeable flavour. 

Constant use of strong wines induces a congested and 
insensitive state of the gastric mucous membrane> which pre* 
vents its glands from secreting freely, and) by reflex action, 
affects also the salivary glands; these liquors are absorbed 
slowly, and what sugar remains in them, and much of the 
alcohol also, becomes converted into acetic acid, which fer- 
mentation further causes the oleaginous ingredients in the 
food to become rancid. Thus is generated ' acidity ' of stomach, 
or the presence of an undue amount of nascent acids. A gouty 
constitution is often thus inaugurated in a previously healthy 
person, and, what is worse, is capable of being transmitted as 
an heirloom, just as acquired peculiarities are handed down to 
their descendants by domestic animals. 

2. Strong sweet loines are represented in England by 
Malaga, Alicante, Constantia, Tent, Tokay, Paxarete, Malmsey, 
the exported Lacryma Christi,* Frontignan, Lunel. They are 

' That used for home conRumption is a badly made wine which will not 
keep till it is ripe. The choicest Lacryma goes to Augsburg. 



70 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

fit to drink only in small quantities, and are best appreciated, 
with a plain biscnit, when the stomach is not fall. Thus taken 
they are a wholesome substitnte for tea. 

In order to enhance their flavonr and bouquet, the natu- 
rally dry vintages are often, either during the manufacture or 
afterwards, made sweet. The most usual and least objection- 
able process is checli^ing the fermentation by the addition of 
boiled grape-juice, and the result of this is an indubitably less 
wholesome article. Py long cellaring the sweetness slowly 
disappears, and the fine flavour remains ; but there is much 
risk of decomposition, which has to be guarded against by 
adding an excess of alcohol. Almost all the port now to be 
had is an artificial wine of this sort. The port drunk by our 
grandfathers, and up to 1820, was a dry, well-balanced wine, 
capable of being kept without brandy and without damage 
for several generations. I have, in Portugal, tasted some per- 
fectly siound, which had been in a private cellar upwards of 
seventy years. But the summer of 1820 was an extraordinary 
one, and produced, in the Peninsula, a vintage such as had never 
been ^en before, and the wine, by a preternatural richness of 
flavour secured a fatal popularity. Since then, the sole ambi- 
tion of the Oporto merchant is to imitate 1820. He has more 
or less succeeded, but at the expense of British digestions. 

3. Aromatic vnnes, — Several of the before-mentioned have 
a fine bouquet, but what are intended here are such as are 
chosen for their aroma almost entirely. 

Moselle, the choicer Rhine wines, first quality Chablis, 
Chateau Yquem, several Italian wines (such as Orvieto, Monte 
Pulciano, Capri, d'Asti), Champagne, are of this description. 
They bear carriage badly, and have to be prepared for the 
voyage by artificial additions. So that, while wholesome in 
their native land, they are apt to be much the contrary as 
found here, and besides have often lost their aroma unless they 
are brandied. 

4. Acid vrines must be in justice carefully distinguished 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 71 

from wines wHch. have turned sour. The acid of the latter 
is nascent vinegar, whose presence indicates the probability of 
other more noxious accompaniments of decomposition being 
also in the damaged liquid, such as poisonous moulds and 
fiingi, for example ; but some wines are really made with an 
excess of acid, consisting mainly of the tartaric and its super- 
salts. This happens mostly to the growths of cold countries, 
such as the Rhine districts, and the environs of Paris. White 
Burgundy wines (of which Chablis is the best knowu) and 
white Bordeaux wines (Sauteme), unless in exceptional years, 
are more noted for their acid than for their aroma. They are 
best adapted for taking with rich, greasy dishes, and suit well 
the dietary of the luxurious districts where they are grown. 
They are an agreeable adjunct to the usual ingredients of salad 
dressing. 

6. SjparMmg wines, — Champagne, St. P^ray (from the 
Bhone), Seyssel (or * Swiss Champagne '), Sparkling Moselle, 
Vino d'Asti, are the best known. Good champagne is by far 
the wholesomest, and with a minimum of alcohol, possesses 
remarkable exhilarating power, from the rapid absorption of 
its vinous ether diffused by the liberated carbonic acid. 
Sillery mousseux contains, according to M. Cyr's table, only 
from 9 to 11 per cent, of absolute alcohol, but to a sinking 
fever patient, a glass will give twice the energy that can be ob- 
tained from a glass of brandy. The other effervescing wines 
will be drunk only by those who are reckless or ignorant of 
consequences. 

The test of a sparkling wine is to leave it uncorked. If it 
be vapid after twenty-four hours, it is bad, and it is good in 
direct ratio to the length of time it retains its sparkle and 
aroma. That which roughens the teeth should never be again 
tasted ; it is made of cider and rhubarb stalks ; the roughness 
is from the malic acid it contains. 

All these five classes of wine prudence will reserve for 
festive purposes and occasions ; the wise man who wishes to 



72 . GENERAL DIETETICS. 

enjoy life, will make them always exceptional, for as idlers 
have no holidays, so perpetual feasters miss all the pleasures 
of variety ; but I am quite sure that the not infrequent mann- 
fiaicture of occasions for domestic rejoicing, a birthday, a 
wedding anniversary, a harvest home, a horse sold, the plant- 
ing of a tree, the calving of a cow, a daughter presented at 
conrt, or cutting her first tooth, or any other good stroke of 
business, is a great promoter, not only of love and happiness, 
but of personal health. Let the beverages which celebrate the 
occasion be chosen for their peculiar and exceptional flavours. 
If they are good of their class, the moderate use will not 
shorten, but both cheer and lengthen life. 

6. Terfect vjvnes, — 3j this term are intended such as possess 
the virtues derived from the presence of alcohol, of water, of 
sugar, of etherial flavours, of fruity extractive, and of acids, 
without any of them being so predominant as to mask the 
others, or to require artificial additions for the preservation of 
soundness and flavour. An enormous acreage is devoted to 
the production of red wines of this character in the depart- 
ment of the Gironde and other places in France of similar 
climate. We give the name of ' claret ' to the whole of them, 
which is better than pedantically endeavouring to affix geo- 
graphical distinctions. One of the merchant-princes of 
Bordeaux, a statesman of the highest integrity, gave me some 
years ago a hint which I have found of the greatest service in 
the diagnosis of wine-dealers. * When,* said he, ' a tradesman 
offers you, at anything but the very highest price, our wines 
with the name of an estate attached to them, he is giving 
currency to a deception. If he uses the terms of First, Second, 
and Third Quality clarets, it is so-far-forth an evidence of 
honesty.' The wholesale honses and brokers buy up from 
farmers, many of whom do not make half-a-dozen hogsheads a 
year, all bnt the small quantity which is kept to store as 
' vintage * wines, vins de luxe, and indeed much that is quite 
equal in quality 'to these speculative articles. The produce is 
mixed under the superintendence of cellarers, who at Bordeaux 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 73 

form a sort of hereditary caste, handing down their secrets 
from father to son, and adding fresh knowledge — 

' Till old experience doth attain 
To something of prophetic strain/ 

The mixed wine is classed as premiere, seconde, and troisieme 
qtudite, not from any comparative superiority in wholesome- 
ness, but according to the price it will fetch in the market. 
Thus, a much better general result is secured than if it were 
kept separate, as is to a considerable extent done on the 
Bhine. 

If an exporter wishes to pass off some of this blended 
liquid as the production of some special vineyard, he accom- 
plishes his object very often by adding an artificial scent. If 
he wants to sell (say) Chli^teau-Latour, he uses nuts or almonds, 
or something which smells like them ; if his ambition leads 
him to aim at Ch&teau-Lafitte, he adds a whiff of violets 
also ; if Leoville be his object, violet alone is probably enough. 
Others seem flavoured with cherries. • When the wine is 
originally good, it is not likely that its wholesomeness can be 
seriously interfered with by this fraud. 

But the same cannot be said when imperfect, wines, not 
tempered by admixture, or damaged wines, are cured and 
fortified for export with flavours, and body, and alcohol. The 
fault of the two former is not so much that they are actively 
deleterious, which is not known to be the case,^ as that they 

' The substances sold by adulterators and droggists for flavouring alco- 
holic liquors are, according to Dr. Hassall, cocculus indicus, grains of para- 
dise, capsicum, ginger, quassia, wormwood, orris root, carraway and coriander 
seeds, orange powder, liquorice, honey, sulphuric acid, (»*eam of tartar, alum, 
carbonate of potash, hartshorn shavings, nux vomica, gentian, chamomile, 
tobacco, opium, juniper berries, angelica root, and bitter almonds. The 
quantities used of the active drugs are infinitesimally shiall, and would be 
nauseous if employed in noxious doses. In a trade circular headed 
Important Information for Practical Men^ Eichler's Receipts for Liquors 
teaches how to use also ' tincture of green tea,* * raisins,* ' figs,' * St. John's 
bread,' * rhatany,* * catechu,' * elderberry, cherry and huckleberry juice,* 



74 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

liide the nauseonsness of an imwholesome article; and tHe 
same might be asserted of the alcohol, if it were inserted in 
the form of ripe French brandy, but the price of that would 
diminish the profits too much, and new com or potato spirit, 
full of the poisonous oil of grain (amy lie ether), is used. 

Against the adulteration of claret which does not pretend 
to be anything else than * first,' * second,' or ' third ' quality, 
we have the valuable safeguard of the enormous quantity that 
is made, and the small profits which could be got out of the 
labour and risk of adulterating it. 

The commoner Burgundies and the red Rhone wines run 
our claret very hard in the race for perfection ; they err in 
containing too much fruity extractive, which, except the wine 
happens to be very strong in alcohol, causes decomposition. 
They do not keep well, and must be drunk off* directly they 
are ripe, or they become unwholesome ; but it is only just to 
say that they are much improved lately, and there seems little 
doubt that the scientific advice of M. Pasteur and others is 
calculated to improve them still further. The cause of un- 
wholesomeness in Burgundy is usually the re-establishment of 
fermentation, through the formation of mouldiness in the 
bottle. To detect the presence of this destructive action, cork 
lightly down about two thirds of a bottle of the wine, shake it 
well for half a minute or so, and let it stand : if there is any 
carbonic acid set free, so as to expel the cork too readily, the 
Burgundy is unwholesome, and it will, if drunk daily, produce 
feverishness, tension of the eyeballs, throbbing of the arteries, 
dry furred tongue, and iudigestion. 

The grand, old-fashioned vintage Burgundies, such as 
Chambertin, Clos Vougeot, &c., do not produce these effects, 
as they are sufficiently alcoholised not to decompose ; but their 

* brown sugar/ * yeast * — and so far we know what we are about. But as 
much cannot be asserted wheii we take in hand a mysterious ' wine colour- 
ing,' and still less when the ill-omened name of ' body preparation ' is given 
to one of the drugs recommended. {See Beport of State Board of Health of 
Massachusetts, 1873, p. 167). ^ 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 75 

price and their strength fit them only for holidays. They 
should be treated like port, and taken in a single glass with 
some exceptionally prime dish, such as venison or a saddle of 
four-year-old mutton. The primest Burgundies are those 
which have a peculiar odour of wall-fiowers. 

Beaujolais was introduced a few years ago from the M4con 
market by means of some choice specimens, but it has not 
sustained its first reputation. It is apt to turn sour, and at 
the best has very little bouquet. 

The Hungarian wines have been lately widely advertised 
as superior to claret. Some of them have certainly pleasant 
fruity flavours, but they do not ripen well in the cellar, and are 
liable to decomposition. They are inferior to the produce of 
French vineyards at the same price. 

7. Rough wines owe their character to the relatively large 
proportion of tannin which they contain. They have usually 
a brilliant tint, but are deficient in alcohol ; and their principal 
use in the trade is to mix with others to impart colour and 
keeping qualities. The Vin de Cahors and Boussillon come 
imder this category; the latter, being stronger in alcohol 
than the majority of rough wines, appears in the markets 
in its own name ; at the merchants', and in public houses, 
as * Burgundy Port.' In M. Cyr's table it is stated to con- 
tain 16*68 per cent, of absolute alcohol, as against 17'G3 
per cent, assigned to sherry, and 20 per cent, to port. The 
ordinary drink of the population in wine countries usually 
consists of these rough beverages; but, however beneficial 
they might be, which is questionable, it would be useless 
to reconmiend them to those who can procure something 
more palatable. 

Beer, — The only thing to be guarded against in malt 
liquors is sourness, which needs no comment. 

Spirits. — This is, in every respect, the worst form in which 
alcohol can be habitually consumed. To continue to produce 
the desired efiect it is necessary to continuously increase the 
strength or the frequency of the dose. Almost all the cases 



76 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

fti which injury to physical health has been traced to alcohol, 
are in reality due to spirit-drinking. 

Distilled liquors are by no means to be considered as 
merely dilutions of their chief ingredient. The products of 
recent distillation are always deeply saturated with the 
poisonous amylic ether, which the manufacturers call * oil of 
grain* or *;fusel oil.' It is not an adulteration, for gladly 
would the distillers get rid of it, and would pay largely any- 
body able to teach them how to do so quickly and cheaply. 
Bat it is much more injurious to health than any possible adul- 
teration. I had once an idea that this waste product might be 
made of economical use, as a medicine or otherwise, and gave 
it to a considerable number of persons in doses of from one to 
tpn drops. The consequences were invariably f everishness and 
furred-tongue, and, often, headache and throbbing of the temples. 

After cellaring for a year or so, a great part of this 
poisonous ingredient disappears by decomposition, leaving 
only peculiar flavours. And a quicker mode of producing the 
same effect is to let the spirit drip slowly through the air, at 
the cost, of course, of much loss by evaporation. But new, 
unmellowed spirit must be absolutely prohibited even from 
occasional or medicinal use in the dietary. 

If * fasel oil ' cannot be detected by its peculiar, but not 
easily described, odour, it may usually be made evident by 
pouring some boiling water on the spirits or wine, and letting 
the mixture stand in a small room, or close cupboard, for the 
night. It is then diffused through the air. It may also be 
discerned in the breath of the consumer. Chemists have not 
helped us to any quantitative analysis of this obnoxious 
substance. 

§ 10. Waters. 

It fs only exceptionally fortunate people that have a chance 
of choosing what water they are supplied with. Still, it is of 
practical use to know what are the good and bad features of 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. ^7 

eacli sort ; especially the bad, in order that, if they are ex- 
hibited, the source may be avoided altogether, or the dangers 
* provided against. 

Distilled water, as it is condensed from steam, is the ideal 
of perfect pnrity. It has not even air in it, and therefore 
tastes flat and metallic. Bnt it makes capital tea, beer, or 
any other inf osion or decoction. 

The principal bad feature it can exhibit is derived from its 
very purity. From the absence of salt, it dissolves and takes 
up in solution any lead it may come across. So that in ships, 
or any other places supplied by condensing engines, frequent 
analysis of the water with sulphuretted hydrogen should be 
made, lest it should be poisoned by the pipes or cisterns. 

Bain water may be, and often is, equally pure. It is, in 
fact, as it falls, steam condensed in the great condensing 
apparatus of the sky. But it is better aerated than distilled 
water. For culinary purposes, for washing, and the like, it 
is well adapted. But it is apt to pick up dirts on the surfaces 
where it is collected, and being, like the last, free from salts, 
also is readily infected by lead. 

Biver water is principally rain-water which has been filtered 
by passing through the surface soil. A new risk, here, has to 
be guarded against, namely, that of contamination by refuse 
organic matter in a state of decay, but not yet sufficiently 
oxidised into harmlessness. The latter object is naturally 
secured by the motion and aeration of a flowing stream, and 
the greater part of the resultant dirt falls to the bottom, 
while the chloride of sodium and other salts make the water 
actually more agreeable and digestible. . A purified river is 
the best drinking-water one can have, but unhappily it is not 
yet quite evident what length of exposure is necessary to 
secure its purification, and there is the uncomfortable feeling 
that any organic matter may possibly be of a highly poisonous 
sort. Water from this source should not be drunk unless it 
be quite free from taste and smell, either naturally or after 
filtration ; or unless we can trace to an obviously harmless 



78 . GENERAL DIETETICS. 

source any taste or smell we find in it. By * harmless ' I mean 
such an impurity as peat, derived from superficial layers of 
that substance. This is not only harmless, but positively a 
security, showing that the water has passed through one of the 
best natural filters in the world ; and a slight tinge of it is by 
no means xmpleasant. 

"Water containing sewage to any appreciable extent gives 
off a fetid smell just before the boiling temperature, and may 
be easily detected in this way. The boiling temperature 
renders it safe from germs capable of communicating infections 
disease, but it does not make it clean or wholesome. 

The readiest test of the presence of un oxidised organic 
matter, is to put a drop of * Condy's patent ozonised water 
for toilet purposes ' in a tumbler of water. If the purple- 
lake hue thus communicated remains for a quarter of an hour, 
the liquid is safe ; if it vanishes, there is more organic matter 
than there should be. The organic matter may indeed be 
soap-suds, or some equally innocent portion of our fated peck 
of dirt ; but, on the other hand, it may be the germ of typhoid 
fever or cholera derived from a source painfril to contemplate. 
As wise persons who have to do with strange dogs always 
caustic a bite, however free from hydrophobia the animal may 
appear to be, so it is prudent always to filter river water unless 
we have tested its absolute purity. 

Iron is sometimes spoken of as an impurity which is a 
recommendation, rather than otherwise, of a water, because 
iron is given by us as a tonic. But I cannot agree with that 
opinion. We do not give iron to healthy persons ; for if we 
did, we should often find what I have observed in some who 
habitually use iron-stained water, viz., deficient nutrition, 
dyspepsia, and obstinate anaemia. And when we give iron to 
the sick, we give it as a drug, and not as a drink, and only 
in short courses, and moreover we do not order it to be used 
in cookery. I should strongly advise iron springs and streams 
to be avoided. 

Ldkes are perfected rivers. The organic matter has first 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 79 

been oxidised by motion and exposure, and then is deposited 
bjr restv When Londoners see the happiness and saving dne 
to the bringing a few feet of Loch Katrine throngh Glasgow, 
no wonder that their mouths water for Bala, or some other 
available lake. Meanwhile, the existing companies do their 
best to imitate lakes, by letting their property rest in reservoirs 
before distribution. 

Marshes are, however, in a very different position from 
lakes. They are not deep enough to allow the organic and 
mineral matters to be dropped out of the way, and moreover 
they are filled with decaying weeds and insects. It is an 
observation due to ffippocrates, that the drinking of marsh 
water causes enlargement of the spleen, and many observations 
have decidedly confirmed this evidence of the conveyance of 
ague poison by drinking-water. Hippocrates remarks also on 
the nnhealthiness of marsh water, arising out of its frequent 
change of temperature ; it is hot in summer, and icy in winter, 
thus tending to produce catarrhs.* 

Sjprvngs are underground streams. Before the surface 
drainage which supplies them has got down to their level, it 
has been most thoroughly filtered of organic matter, so they 
are clear and bright. Moreover, being kept at a considerable 
barometric pressure, they hold a good deal of carbonic acid in 
solution, which renders them sparkling and exhilarating. 
But the presence of that carbonic acid makes them take up 
also a good deal of lime, iron, and other mineral constituents 
of the deep soil. They are * hard,' that is to say their lime 
forms an insoluble compound with soap, curdles it and prevents 
it cleaning your hands. This is a very good test of the 
presence of an excess of lime ; and another is a deposit taking 
place in the teakettle after the carbonic acid, which suspends 
it, is driven off by heat. Hard waters dry up the mucous 
membranes just as they do the skin, arrest digestion, and thus 
cause gout, gravel, and stone to be prevalent in the districts 
watered by them. 

* Htp})ocrates, vol. i. p. 632-3, edit. Kiihii. 



80 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Ordinary hard waters owe their objectionable quality to 
carbonate of lime made soluble by the presence of carbonic 
acid, and derived from the chalk in the strata through which 
they have passed. This is in a great measure cured by the 
means by which it is detected, as above mentioned, viz., by 
boiling. But in certain districts, as for example in the Yale 
of Belvoir, the hard waters contain sulphate of lime, which is 
not thrown down by heat. So no boiling will rectify them, 
and in such districts rain or sur^e- water should be employed 
for drinking and cooking. 

SliaUow welh have the same virtues and &iults as rivers. 
They are peculiarly liable to be poisoned by the neighbourhood 
of house drains. Deep wells have rather the characters of 
springs. The tests of goodness are applicable accordingly. 
And, here, it may be remarked that the tests mentioned above 
are merely hints to excite suspicion, selected as readily applic- 
able without the apparatus of a laboratory. If a doubt arise, 
no analysis should be trusted but that of a special analyst, 
for which full instructions are given by Dr. Parkes* and 
others. 

The perfections of water are to be — 

1. Soft. 

2. Clean. 

3. With air and carbonic acid in it, to make it refreshing. 

4. With salt in it, sufficient to make it tasteless,^ and to 
prevent its too ready contamination by lead. 

Mmeral waters for dietetic, as distinguished from medicinal, 
use, should have the same virtues. Manufacturers say that 
* soda water ' is always most popular, if it contains a minimum 
of soda, that is to say if it is simply good drinking-water 

* Practical Hygiene, b. i. chap. i. sect. 6. 

' Tastelessness is sometimos looked upon as an evidence of the purity of 
water ; but this is not strictly true. Distilled water, of absolute purity, 
has a decided metallic flavour, which is removed by the addition of salt and 
air. The probability is that by these additions it is more assimilated to 
the fluids of the body, and therefore is more digestible, more quickly ab- 
sorbed. For the sam^ reason unboiled albumen* is proverbially tasteless. 



ON THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 81 

aerated. And a veiy delicate beverage is the fashionable 
* Apollinaris water/ the salts in which are in proportions to 
render it most soft and velvety to the palate, and not in sueh 
quantity as to give it any medicinal action. It is as good for 
health as the water of Loch Katrine. 

Potash and Lithia waters should be used by invalids only. 

I have heard some parents object to their grown up-sons 
drinking soda water, under the idea that it diminishes their 
chance of seeing grandchildren around their hearth. I have 
not been able to trace any such baleful influence. 

Toast and water (made by pouring boiling water on a burnt 
biscuit and two or three cloves) is a wholesome drink, for it 
secures the neutralisation of all organic matter. 

Barley water, if well boiled for about a quarter of an hour, 
is also a good formula for making hard water more digestible. 
The * pearl barley* of which it is made, should be washed 
with two waters before using, and about two ounces to the 
quart is generally found Enough to make a drink to quench 
thirst. Some very thinly shaved lemon rind is the wholesomest 
flavouring. 

Those who drink for pleasure lemonade, ormigeade, ginger 
heer, and the like, should always prepare them at home. The 
small dealers, who brew what is sold, are prone to use the 
cheaper tartaric, malic (as found in rhubarb), oxalio> and even 
mineral acids, instead of oranges and lemons. And they 
employ, as flavours, the amylic ethers, or * fruit essences,^ most 
deleterious drugs. 

Cups of various kinds are wholesome drinks, if not too 
much fortified with spirituous liquors. Cura9oa should never 
be allowed to enter into their composition; the peel of a 
Tangerine orange ground over with a lump of sugar, will give 
all the flavour without the poison. Borage and cucumber 
rind are not injurious. 

Ice, — In Dr. Bidder's experiments on the gastric juice, he 
found that low temperature does not exercise any deleterious 
influence upon it. When absolutely frozen, it dissolved albu- 

a 



82 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

men as well as ever, though it was quite spoiled by heat.* 
Again, the secretion of glands is arrested by feverishness of 
system, or by local elevation of animal warmth above the 
normal degree, and, in hot weather or hot rooms, it cannot but 
be beneficial to the stomach to reduce the unusual tempera- 
ture to which the over-heated blood has brought it. Ice, 
therefore, is one of the most generally useful additions to the 
dietary of both sick and healthy which the energy of modem 
trade has made ; and the ice-box puts a daily supply within 
reach qf us all. The only time when ice is found injurious is, 
during the exhaustion and real cooling consequent on violent 
exercise and perspiration. Pond ice, glacier ice, and snow are 
much inferior to the lake ice with which the English market 
is supplied. They contain foreign and, sometimes, organic 
matters, and melt sooner. Ice machines are to be recom- 
mended as a means of obtaining cold, when the best ice is out 
of reach. They are so frequently improved, that it is unad- 
visable to say which is the best at present. 

* Die Verdauungssdfte, Bidder and Schmidt, Experiments ix. 1, 2, 
X. 1, xi. 1, xvi., xvij. 



ON THE PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 83 



CHAPTER in. 

ON THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

The most important element in cooking is, indubitably, the 
cook. And the most important of a cook's virtues is shown 
in the selection of food. A good cook is, to a certain extent, 
bom, not made ; and if bom deficient in necessary faculties, 
the novice should be made to understand that she has mistaken 
her mission. The necessary faculties are those of accurate 
taste and smell — ^with which, joined to enthusiasm and punc- 
tuality, she may become a useful and honoured member of 
society — without which, she is simply an incumbrance. The 
tests to try her by are plainly cooked eggs, joints, and vege- 
tables. If she regularly sends these up in a state to give a 
zest to her master's appetite, let him think no trouble or 
expense wasted in teaching her whatever she desires to learn ; 
if they excite disgust, harm rather than good is done by her 
technical knowledge of those disguises of inferiority known 
as *made dishes.* Cleanliness may be taught, a variety of 
receipts may be bought, but a delicate nose is beyond price. 
Choose a cook young, choose her carefully, and treat her 
liberally. 

It is an old remark that a good cook shows generally a 
bad temper. There is more truth in it than in most proverbs ; 
for the fact is that in half-educated persons, just indignation is 
apt to bear the appearance of wrath ; and the needful rebukes 
to over-reaching tradesmen, and the disappointments which 
one who loves her work must feel, if her enthusiasm is not 

G 2 



84 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

appreciated, beget a sharpness of tongue and manner difficult 
to endure. Nevertheless, it is wise to bear and forbear, and 
to keep an efficient servant when you have got one. 

This is not a cookery-book, and therefore, of course, the 
details of the kitchen could not be entered into, even were I 
equal to the task. It is not the business of these pages to 
teach how to make food nice, except so far as that quality 
indirectly bears upon its wholesomeness. All that can be 
attempted is, to point out a few particulars in which the pre- 
paration of food bears upon what is known of the physiology 
of digestion and the economics of nutrition. And in a future 
chapter will be discussed the extent to which a physician 
should interfere with the cook in the administration of food to 
his patients, in sickness. 

No kitchen is complete without an open range. It is im- 
possible to have a properly roasted joint by any other means, 
as I learned by visiting the private premises of a * Patent 
Kitchener ' manufacturer, and finding there an old-fashioned 
fire-place in full operation. He cared too much for his diet to 
employ his own works. Experience has led me to question 
even the economy of the closed fire in practical working. 

Roasting is the most perfect mode possible of preparing 
meat for the table. The heat radiated from the open range 
coagulates the outer layer of albumen, and thus the exit of 
that which is still fluid is prevented, and it becomes solidified 
very slowly, if at all. The areolar tissue which unites the 
muscular fibres is converted by gradual heat into gelatine,* 
and is retained in the centre of the mass in a form ready for 
solution. At the same time the fibrine and albumen take on, 
according to Dr. Mulder,^ a form more highly oxidised and, 
especially in the case of the former, more capable of solution 
in water. The fat also is melted out of the fat cells, and is 

' Not, however, the sarcolemma, which an experiment of Professor 
KoUiker's seems to remove from the class of suhstances yielding gelatine, 
,3ee KoUiker's Mikros, Anat., vol. ii. p. 250. 

' Quoted in Molebchott's Didtetik, p. 450. 



ON THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 85 

partially combined with the alkali from the seram of the 
blood. Thns, the external layer of albumen becomes a sort of 
box, which keeps together the valuable parts till they shall 
have undergone the desired changes by slow heat — a box, 
however, permeable by the oxygen of the free surrounding 
air, so that most of the empyreumatic oils generated by the 
charring of the surface are carried oflT. As these are neither 
agreeable nor wholesome, the loss is a gain. There is also an 
acrid volatile product, acroleine, produced by the burning of 
the fat, which is better removed. 

The first part of roasting should therefore be got through 
rapidly, by close exposure to a bright hot fire, in an open, well 
ventilated kitchen. By this, the gravy is retained in the meat, 
till, at the first incision, it flows out of a reddish colour. After 
the complete coagulation of the albumen on the surface, the 
joint should be removed a little further off from the fire, so as 
to roast gradually through. 

The whole time of roasting depends partly^on the weight of 
the joint, partly on the sort of meat — 

Brown meats, such as beef, and mutton, and goose, require 
a quarter of an hour for each pound. 

Yeal and pork, the same, with five or six minutes added 
at the end to make sure of absence of red. 

White-fleshed birds take somewhat less ; for example, a 
turkey of 8^ lbs. (according to M. Gouffe) only an hour and 
three quarters, a capon of 4 lbs. fifty minutes, a fowl of 3 lbs. 
half an hour, a pheasant thirty-five minutes, a partridge 
fifteen minutes. 

The fire should be thoroughly lighted before commencing, 
and kept up evenly ; two gills of broth put in the pan, and the 
larger roasts basted with it five or six times, the smaller three 
times, during roasting. Before removal from the spit, some 
thick fleshy part should be pressed with the finger, to ascertain 
that it is soft. Uncooked parts retain their elasticity. All 
these times have been calculated on the understanding that 
there is no draught to lower the temperature between the fire 



86 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

and screen, for, however airy and well- ventilated the kitchen 
shonld be, such an irregular distribution of heat is most 
noxious, and overthrows all calculations for the due roasting 
of meat. 

M. Brillat-Savarin pronounced oil est nS rotisseur ; in this 
he does not show his usual wisdom, for an eye on the clock 
will supply the lack of an instinctive knowledge of time. 

Boasting properly conducted is the most scientific and 
wholesome, and on that score the most economical mode of 
dressing meat. 

Baking naked meat at a high temperature is a feeble 
imitation ; and the way cooks have of baking first, and then 
browning the outside, so completely reverses the needful order 
of the required processes that it may be designated a fraud. 
Baked meat is ill-flavoured and indigestible from the satura- 
tion of the substance with empyreuma ; but it is not so when 
the temperature is moderate, and when the materials are 
further defended from it by a layer of some bad conductor of 
heat, such as a thick pie-dish, or a crust, or a coat of clay (as 
practised by the gipsies). No empyreuma, or product of 
charring, is then foimed ; and the fat and gravy which ooze 
out, assist in the cooking. The process goes on even after the 
dish is taken out of the oven, if it is kept hot by being en- 
veloped in a thick flannel, or placed in one of Silver's 
Norwegian cooking boxes. The ' Cornish pasty * is the most 
perfect dinner that a labourer, or sportsman, or artist, can 
have brought to his mid-day rendezvous. Meat or fish, and 
potatoes, or anything in short that the taste or purse dictates, 
are enveloped in a thick solid crust, baked slowly, and then 
packed in several layers of woollen. The basketful will keep 
warm for hours, and is the ne plus ultra of out-door refresh- 
ment. 

Vegetables and fruit demand the same slow treatment. 
For a large party, apple or gooseberry pie should be baked all 
night in an old-fashioned red dairy pan. 

Eggs should not be used, or at any rate very sparingly, in 



ON THE PEEPAKATION OF FOOD. 87 

bakes ; for submitted to heat for a long period, their albumen 
becomes more and more tough and insoluble. 

Rajpid hoilmg has, in a minor degree, the same case-harden- 
ing effect on the meat as roasting ; but the interior albumen 
seems, by this process, more hardened and less digestible. In 
boiling a joint, the heat should be kept up for five or six 
minutes. Then, it should be cooled down by the addition of 
three pints of cold water for each gallon of boiling water, and 
retained at that heat.^ 

In boiling fish, the addition of salt to the water, or the use 
of sea- water, makes the flesh firmer, and retains the flavour in 
the interior ; but in making stock for soucheeSy the softer the 
water the better. 

Mutton is best boiled in hard water, for the same reason as 
fish. 

Slow hoilmg makes, it is true, a nourishing soup, but con- 
verts the muscular fibre into a mass of hard strings, which, 
eaten or not eaten, are in nine cases out of ten equally wasted. 
They are to be found in the fasces^ exhibiting all the beautiful 
transverse striae of their original state, quite unaffected by 
their intestinal journey. 

The utility of Soups and Broths depends on several circum- 
stances which modify the advantages accruing from their 
liquid state. In the first place, heat seems to have an effect in 
some degree proportioned to the period of application to 
albumen, rendering it more or less insoluble, at the same time 
that, to a delicate palate, there is a decided loss of flavour. 
Thus soups and stews which are kept too hot, are wholesome 
enough during the first few hours, may be digested at a 

' That is to say, reduced with water at 60° from 212® Fahrenheit to 
170°, or to the extent of 42°. The formula in the text is given as a 
specimen of the best, perhaps the only, mode of directing cooks how to re- 
duce temperature. The female mind abhors meters of all kinds, and degrees 
Fahrenheit mentioned in our orders would infallibly entail their rejection, 
as only fit for hospital nurses. Medical men cannot be too cautious to avoid 
introducing anything reputed ' chemical ' into the kitchen. 



88 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

railway refreshment room for some hours after, but on the 
second or third day give the rash stranger, beguiled into a 
cheap French dinner, an almost certain diarrhoea. Though 
finely divided, the minute fragments of muscular fibre seem to 
be, individually, rendered insoluble by continued heat. 

Then, again, a high temperature, too long continued, extracts 
from the meat all its gelatine — an innutritions material which 
envelopes. the fragments of fibrin in the stomach, and prevents 
their being acted upon. And this is all the more likely, when 
an over-anxious cook tries to make the soup what she calls 

• good * (that is, strong, stiff, and gluey) for invalids. 

Again, if the soup is, by straining, made clear and orna- 
mental, a great deal of the most valuable part pf it is removed : 
the houilli, if not over-boiled, contains the chief constituents 
wanted as nourishment. 

This subject will be reverted to when discussing cookery 
for the sick. 

Soup is rendered more wholesome and nutritious for 
healthy persons by the addition of vegetables. Thus, the 

* Administration de I'Assistance publique * in France, adopted, 
by the advice of a commission of physiologists and physicians, 
a formula for the preparation of bouillon embracing this 
addition. Reduced to approximate EngHsh measures the 
recipe is as follows : — 



Water 

Meat (with bone) .... 

Carrots, turnips, and other vegetables 
saiu ...... 

Eoast onions .... 



4 pints. 
2 lbs. 
6 ozs. 
§ oz. 
Joz.» 



It may be safely commended for adoption in * soup- 
kitchens.' 

BoiliDg is a form of cookery peculiarly adapted to vege- 
tables. Dr. Paris ^ remarks that it deprives them of a con- 

* Cyr, Be V Alimentation^ p. 49. 

' Cyclopadia of Practical Medicine, i. 576. 



ON THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 89 

siderable portion of contained air, whicli is injurious to diges- 
tion when in excess. Potatoes shonld be steamed or boiled in 
their skins, and not so long as for them to fall to pieces from 
the breaking of the starch grannies ; when skinned, they onght 
to retain their shape. On the other hand, the cabbage tribe 
and carrots can hardly be boiled too long. It is essential 
that soft water should be employed, audit is the securing this, 
that makes steaming such an advisable form of boiling, for 
steam is, of course, soft water. 

Particular care should be taken that vegetables are 
thoroughly boiled soft all the way through, and dried on a 
cullender. 

A certain quantity of oleaginous matter renders vegetables, 
in which there is much combined water, less massive in the 
stomach. Thus, roast potatoes are better for the addition of 
some fresh butter, and mashed potatoes for a little cream 
beaten up with the puree after it has been passed through a 
sieve ; and, again, milky rice pudding does not collect into a 
lump as plain rice is apt to do. In making the latter dish up 
for baking, eggs should never be used. Baked white of eg^ 
is the most insoluble form of albumen possible. 

Plain boiled rice should always have a little fresh cold 
butter mixed up with it. In that way, it will serve as an 
accompaniment of meat at dinner. 

Stewing has the advantage over dry baking, that there is no 
charring or formation of empyreumatic gases; and the heat is 
not too great. The principal objection to it is that the meat 
often gets saturated with the fat gravy, and is, thus, too rich 
for some persons. 

It is, however, not nearly so liable to this objection as 
Frying, Unless conducted with great skill, this process coats 
each particle of the food with a medium difficult of penetration 
by the gastric juice, for it is oily, whereas the secretion of the 
stomach is watery. Butyric acid and other rancid and 
empyreumatic educts a^e formed, and disturb digestion, pro- 
ducing, not rarely, flatulence and heart-bum. The art consists 



90 GENERAX DIETETICS. 

in frying * lightly,' as cooks phrase it, that is to say, quickly 
and evenly, and with constant motion, so' that the high heat 
required does not char any part. For those who do not 
dislike the flavour of oil, it is a more manageable medium than 
butter, and generally turns out a lighter dish. Good Lucca 
or Provence oil is also less likely to be sophisticated than 
bought butter. 

Hashing is not to be encouraged. From the two processes 
that are gone through, the animal fibre is too much hardened 
to be readily digested. Cold meat is wholesomer, and may 
be made as palatable with mayonnaise or some such sauce. If 
it must be done, at least let a water-bath {hain marie) be 
used. 

Marinating, that is, baking in vinegar and water with 
layers of bay-leaves and pepper-corns, is suitable for the more 
oily kinds of fish.* 

Broilvng imparts a peculiar tenderness to the meat, by the 
rapid hardening or browning of the sur&ce preventing the 
evaporation of the juice. It is, in fact, roasting applied to 
small portions of meat. Tradition commends it as a suitable 
cookery for the meat of persons in training ; but, perhaps, in 
no sort of dish does it shine so much as in fish. 

In the preparation of mixed dishes and in seasoning it should 
be a general and almost universal rule that the different ingre- 
dients should be as far as possible cooked separately. The 
reason is obvious — each article, from its texture, requires, for 
its perfection, to be submitted to heat for a different period. 
Too long exposure destroys its flavour and solubility. To take 
familiar examples — ^an egg if made into a custard, or just 
coagulated, is tasty and wholesome ; but if baked for half an 
hour in a pudding it becomes useless as an article of food. 
Spices lose nearly all their flavour, while retaining all their 
irritating qualities, if mixed in a dish before boiling ; yet if 

* Another mode of wholesomely cooking oily fish such as sprats, pil- 
chards, or herrings, is to stew or hake them in a deep dish in layers, with a 
layer of hreadcrumhs between each. 



ON THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 91 

heated up separately and for a shorter time, they retain it, 
and will suffice in much smaller quantity. Soap, on the 
other hand, requires less boiling tlian tho vegetables which 
are usually put in it. If boiled together, tho latter are there- 
fore sure to be underdone. If baked in a tartlet, jam loses all 
fruity odour and taste, and sinks into the paste. It should 
be only barely heated after the paste is done. Just warm an 
oyster, it is sapid and digestible ; bake it in a beef -steak pie, 
it is leathery and insoluble. It ought to be put in cold, just 
before the dish comes to table. Onions require long cooking ; 
but the other seasoning herbs usually used in broths should 
not be sprinkled in till a late stage of the boiling. 

The effects of salting are often misunderstood. It is well 
known that living exclusively on salted meat produces scurvy ; 
and it is imagined that the injury to the system arises from tho 
saline matter thus introduced into it. Such, however, is not 
the case. Chloride of sodium is such a large constituent of our 
blood that it cannot possibly be noxious. The unwholesome- 
ness of salt meat, as an article of diet, depends on its deficien- 
cies, not on its excesses : it has lost, according to Baron Liebig's 
calculation, half its nutritive value by the removal of its fluids 
and salts by the brine ; and the dried-up remnant is difficult 
of solution. Soaking in water may soften and remove the 
salt, but it does not restore its nutritive value. 

Smoking and Drying are not quite so injurious to the 
texture of the flesh as salting. It would seem that in the 
, latter the hardening process goes on continuously ; in fact, 
the salt remains and continuously extracts the aqueous con- 
stituents. But the drying takes place once for all, and the 
article gets no worse when it is once prepared, until decom- 
position occurs. These modes of preparation seem peculiarly 
adapted for fish, which naturally perish so readily, and which 
are more injured than even meat by salting. 

Tirmed meat cannot make any claim to a recommendation 
except on economical grounds. When heated up for the table, 
it is too much cooked to be digestible or pleasant. It is best 



92 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

eftten cold, with some of its own jelly, and salad or mayonnaise 

saace. 

The process of ' tinning ' meat is well known to consist 
in the expulsion of air from the material by means of heat ; 
and it IS to be feared that so long as this procedure alone is 
employed, the injury from the excess of temperature is un- 
avoidable. The aim of the inventor should be, to eflPect the 
same object by the aid of air-pumps in the cold. 

Ice seems to promise more favourable results than the last- 
xiamed device, for preserving meat during its conveyance over ' 
long distances — from the overstocked producer to the hungry 
oonsumer. The attempt has hitherto failed from several 
avoidable causes j but the Committee of the Society of Arts, 
who have taken up the matter, are sanguine of final success in 
patting the Australian fresh meat butcher in direct communi- 
cation with the English labourer. It should be remembered 
that meat which has been thus preserved requires immediate 
cooking, as it quickly goes bad from the change iuto a higher 
temperature of air. It should, if possible, be brought home in 
an ice-box, and kept there till wanted. 

Vegetables preserved by drying undergo an interstitial 
hardening of the tissues which renders them insoluble in the 
saliva, as may be observed by their want of flavour. They 
are inferior to fresh vegetables for use in preventing scurvy — 
indeed they seem inferior to lime juice for that purpose — so that 
they cannot be wholesome for the healthy. It is a fieu^t, not 
explained as yet, that long transport, especially by sea, how- 
ever rapid, has a somewhat similar deleterious effect on vege- 
tables; so that we do not get the advantage which might 
have been anticipated from the increased rapidity of communi- 
oation with distant supplies. A notable instance is that of 
Algerian peas. 

The preservation of food by excluding the air by means of 
oil is a subject which requires further experimenting upon. 
Delicate fish, such as sardines for example, can be kept in 
this way for a long time; and from time immemorial the 



ON THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 93 

method has been adopted for wine in Italy. A tliin layer of 
fresh oil in the neck of the flask obviates the necessity of a 
cork in wine not intended to travel, and is much more effi- 
cient, preventing even the lightest and most perishable liquors 
from turning sour. Potted meats and sausages are often 
judiciously preserved by a layer of lard, which seems effectual 
in retaining moisture and preventing decomposition. Why 
do we not apply the same principle to the storing of jams, 
gooseberries, plums, &c., for winter use ? 

Preservation with sugar has the disadvantage of intro- 
ducing an ingredient which is cloying to the appetite, a mask 
to the natural flavour of the vegetable, and, moreover, apt to 
generate an excess of acid in the stomach. 

As a rule, forced vegetables, and fruit out of season, are 
not to be recommended. The natural period of its perfection 
is long enough for us to enjoy each ; and, then, a change is as 
wholesome as it is pleasant. To bring them to table sooner 
gratifies merely a vulgar ostentation or impatient gluttony, 
and receives its just punishment in a premature weariness. 

Certain articles of diet yield their savours best when their 
valuable ingredients are got out in the form of an Extract, 
An illustration of this may be found in the Ouatemala 
mode of jpreparvng Coffee and Chocolate,^ which is as follows: — 

* Coff'ee berries are used that have been stored dry one year. 
Taking enough for one or two days* consumption, they rub 
them in a linen cloth, and lay them in the sun before roasting. 
This operation is always performed by the lady of the house, 
over a quick charcoal fire, in an iron cylinder, which she 
keeps turning for ten or fifteen minutes, till the berries are 
roasted on all sides. The most esteemed bean is the ** pea- 
berry" (which bears the round monocotyledonous form, 
instead of the dicotyledonous), in consequence of its browning 
more evenly. It is not a diflerent species of coflee, but an 
accidental variety, more common on some trees than others. 

> Dictated by Mis. Osbext Salyin. 



94 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

At the critical moment of perfection, the berries are emptied 
into a basket and stirred round to prevent their further con- 
coction. They are then ground, and a very strong liquid 
extract is made from them by infusion in hot water. A com- 
mon percolating coffee-pot will serve this purpose, and save 
straining. A dessert-spoonful of this essence, with either 
boiling water or boiling milk poured on it, forms a cup which 
is the invariable bonne houche of every meal. 

* Cacao trees grow wild, and are also cultivated round some 
Indian villages ; the berries are dried in the sun ; and an 
Indian woman generally comes to your hacienda to make them 
into chocolate. Kneeling before her miU, consisting of a 
smooth curved surface with a heavy stone roller, she grinds 
the kernels up with an equal weight of sugar, and flavours 
with cinnamon or vanilla, the latter a wild product of the 
forest. It is ground three times over, and, when in a smooth 
paste, is cut into oblong square pieces, each enough for one 
cup. It is then dried on a plate over a charcoal fire. When 
required for use, it is dissolved in boiling water or milk, and a 
thick fix)th worked on the top of each cup with a swizle stick 
or whisk. The cup is often filled up with milk-cheese, cut 
into small dies.' 

A priroiple of rational cookery, much overlooked by pro- 
fessors of the culinary art, is that each article of diet should 
be so prepared that its own natural flavours and other 
characteristics should be enhanced, instead of being masked 
or destroyed. Condiments and sauces should be so moderately 
used, as never to be a prominent feature ; and, then, should be 
so blended and balanced, as to make it difficult to identify 
them. There seems to me nothing Utopian in the idea of a 
universal sauce, adapted to all sorts of animal food, making 
them all more savoury and more wholesome at the same time.^ 

' This is an old ambition, see Pepys's Diary, Feb. 10, 1661-9. The 
Duke of York ' did mightily magnify his sauce, which he did then eat 
with everything, and said it was the best universal sauce in the world, it 
being taught him by the Spanish Ambassador ; made of some parsley and 



ON THE PBEPARATION OF FOOD. 95 

There is ample scope for indiyidnal taste in the selection of 
the variety suited to the nser*s palate. 

One is almost ashamed to mention cleanliness as an 
essential in cookery, the idea of the contrary condition in 
eatables is so repnlsive ; but cooks do not seem aware how 
ofben their dishes are unpalatable, and, therefore, unwholesome, 
solely firom being prepared in a vessel which has a disagreeable 
flavour remaining in it. Soap is sometimes employed in 
washing pots, instead of soda ; and the taste of the rank train- 
oil seems to adhere to the metal, and to infect a succession of 
otherwise excellent n^iaterial; and so adheres the odour of 
onions, and of several other condiments, to a steel knife. The 
use of printed paper to stand glass and crockery upon, in 
cupboards, is also objectionable, as the oily e£3uvium from 
fresh printing-ink is very rank, and acrid, and penetrating, as 
our patients who suffer from haemorrhoids well know to their 
cost. 

Fish is an article very often spoilt by injudicious endea- 
vours to make it palatable. 'Melted butter,' in reality, 
requires the hand of a first-rate artist, whereas every kitchen 
maid thinks she can concoct it. Unless M. Grouffe's instruc- 
tions have been followed to the letter, it is best avoided 
altogether. A few drops of ChiK vinegar, op black pepper 
vinegar, or elder vinegar, or Worcester sauce, or a slice of 
lemon, or a sauce made by boiling pepper and salt in plain 
water with a few favourite herbs, aesist the digestion of the 
fish, whereas greasy sauces impede the process^ chemically and 
mechanically. 

Orillmg does for fish thai which roasting or boiling 
does for meat, and is a commendable mode of preparation, 
especially as it obviates the temptation to take sauce. 

Those professional lectures are usually the most instruc- 
tive which take up some universally known and simple matter 

a dry toa8t# beat in a mortar together with vinegar, salt, and a little 
pepper ; he eats it with flesh, or fowl, or fish.' ... By and by did taste it, 
and liked it mightily.* 



96 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

relating to a snbject, and nse it in illustration of the principles 
involved in the art to be taught. To exemplify the elements 
of sanatory cookery, perhaps nothing could be more fitly chosen 
by a lecturer than the cooking of an egg. First, for the 
name — our great-grandmothers (if proverbs register language 
truly) talked of ' roasting ' an egg ; we call the same process 
* boiling,* marking the fact that there is no essential difference 
between the two, the end of both being the same, namely, the 
bringing albumen into a mechanical condition more suitable 
for the digestive viscera than when raw. Then, an egg, more 
clearly than any other meat, exhibits the virtues of fresfinessy 
and the vices of defects in that quality. Boil an egg warm 
from the nest, and you recognise it by its creamy, lightly 
coagulated, eminently digestible form of albumen. Even by 
next day it is less perfect, and steadily degenerates in value, 
till it becomes the most hateful of poisons. Here, may be 
pointed out, the imjporiance of selection according to external 
obvious qualities. 

Next, should come a scientific picture of the coagulation of 
albwfnen by heat. Albumen begins to coagulate at 140° ^ very 
slowly, but does not form a soHd mass with rapidity under the 
temperature of nearly 212°. Till it has formed a solid mass 
itis easily permeable by heat, and the central parts are solidified, 
therefore, equally with the exterior; whereas,' coagulated albu- 
men is a bad conductor of high temperature ; and if the out- 
side sets quickly and firmly, the inside remains light and 
semi- solid. Boil an egg at a slow heat, and it is not cooked 
till hard all through ; put it into quite boiling water, and the 
white sets soon, and leaves the albumen of the yolk sofb. This 
illustrates the rules given a few pages back, about applying at 
first a high heat in roasting and boiling,, and afterwards 
moderating it, when the hardened surface has enclosed the 
deeper parts as in a box. The shell of the egg may be a text 
to demonstrate, how in baking and frying the external media, 

1 Simon's CheimUtry (Day's translation), vol. i. p. 16. 



ON THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 97 

the crust and the oil, retain the whole of the substance, so that 
there is no loss during these economical culinary operations, 
though the meat is less wholesome. 

Then, that this loss of wholesomeness is due to the satura- 
tion of the article of diet with the products of dry distillation, 
and, also, that enhancement of natural savour, solubility, and 
wholesomeness run in parallel lines, may be illustrated from 
the observations of Beaumont on the different times occupied 
in the gastric digestion of eggs in several conditions. He 
found, for example, 

Honn Minutes 
Eggs, whipped and diluted, occupied in digestion . 1 30 
„ fresh raw „ ,,.20 

fresh roasted 

soft boiled (or poached) „ „ . 3 

„ hard boiled „ „ . 3 30 



»» 

„ fried „ 



3 30 



It may be observed that this is just the order in which they 
are tasty ; that is to say, the degree in which they come with 
facility into contact with the sensory nerves distributed 
through the mucous membrane ; so that pleasure and duty 
here, as usually in natural operations, become one. 

Greneral rules for the preservation of food are somewhat 
deceptive. They lead to their being too much practised for 
the display of the pride of ingenuity. The fact is that food is 
always the worse for storing in respect of its wholesomeness, 
even if its taste is not injuriously affected. 

But economical reasons eidst for the restricted exercise of 
this art. The principle consists in excluding the evil oxidising 
influences of air and moisture. In dry goods this is done by 
keeping them dry and warm and closely covered up. Starch, 
rice, tapioca, sago, macaroni, vfermicelli, sugar, sweetmeats, 
jams, salt, and dried and salted meats, tea, coffee, <fec., require 
this treatment. And they should be kept in a different cup- 
board from odorous goods, such as candles and soap, or they 
will catch the objectionable flavour. But with most fresh 
organic substances a different treatment is necessary to the 

H 



98 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

attainment of the same end. They contain in their texture 
itself sufficient moisture and air to oxidise them into decom- 
position, and the more stagnant these are the more surely do 
the chemical actions result. It is necessary, therefore, to let 
them have free ventilation ; their external surface should be 
frequently wiped, or at least blown over by a current of air, 
80 as to let the old moisture escape and fresh be absorbed. 
Thus^ meat should hang exposed in an open larder, and be often 
dried. Lemons should be purchased in the summer and sus- 
pended in nets for use at the time when they are dear. Oniona 
and garlic should be strung up in an outhouse (not the larder). 
Parsley, thyme, mint, and other herbs should be dried in the 
wind, out of the sun, put each into a separate paper bag, and 
hung up in the kitchen. Where apples and pears and chestnuts 
are stored, the window should be left open, and the fruit fre- 
quently turned. Too much draught makes vegetables withy ; 
so they should be laid on a stone floor behind the door. 
Potatoes are best stacked in dry sand. 

The date when each article is stored should be written 
down. 

Eggs are an exception to the usual rule respecting organic 
substances. They cannot be treated in the same way by 
reason of their structure, yet it is impossible to avoid keeping 
them for culinary purposes. They are best preserved by being 
washed over with a solution of gum and packed in a square 
box of bran, which, is to be turned over a quarter of a turn 
every day. 



ON DIGESTION. 99 



CHAPTER IV. 

ON DIQEStlOiJ. 

The most recent systematic teabher oF physiology defines 
digestion as * the process by which food is reduced to a form 
in which it can be absorbed by the intestines and taken up by 
the blood-vessels/ ^ The process consists in the aliments 
being passed along a cd^nal, thence called the 'alimentary 
canal/ running through the body, where it comes in contact 
with fluids oozing out from various glands, which mixing with 
it dissolve it, and reduce it to a homogeneous juice or 
* chyme.' 

The nu>re perfectly and quickly this end ii attained, the 
more healthy is the digestion. 

These fluids resemble one another in being watery, [Valine, 
and albuminous, like the serum of the blood, sO that they are 
well adapted for passing readily through the muCous mem* 
branes by endosmose. They pass in, as they passed out| 
freely, and earry in with them the nutriment prepared in the 
alimentary canal. But there the resemblance (leases ; land the 
difierences of the fluids poured from the diflbreilt glands are 
very marked, and their actions on the variotkB tOnstituents of 
the diet are strikingly specialiged. 

1. The saliva, secreted from the glands dt the tnetktli, is 

' Dalton's Human Physiology ^ fifth edit. chap, yi., where will be found 
a complete rhumi of the scattered contributions of others up to the present 
time, often illustrated and criticised by the light of the author's original 
investigations on this subject. An old rUimU of mine, entitled JHgestion 
and Us Derangements (London, 1866), is out of date, as well as out oi prini. 



100 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

alkaline, glairy, and adhesive, and possesses the power of con- 
verting very rapidly the nnabsorbable starch into soluble and 
absorbable sngar. 

2. The gastric juice, secreted in the thin layer of gland 
which lines the cavity of the stomach, is acid, and can dissolve, 
so long as it is acid, the solid albnmen and fibrin of flesh food. 

3. The jpa/ncreatic juice is again alkaline, * very fnll of albu- 
minous organic matter, and capable of exerting a peculiar 
influence on fatty matters. It disintegrates them, and reduces 
them to a state of emulsioii, so that the mixture of fat in the 
watery fluid it floats in, is white and opaque. In this creamy 
state, it is capable of soaking through the mucous membrane 
and passing into the blood, by the same way as the starch and 
fibrin. 

4. The hile is very different from any of the above fluids 
in cbemical reaction and contents, and it does not appear to 
possess the power of dissolving starch by turning it into 
sugar, or of dissolving fibrin, or of emulsioning fat in any 
degree equal to pancreatic juice, thougb it is itself of a soapy 
nature, as i3 shown by the commercial use of ox-bile by carpet 
cleaners to remove grease-spots. It is neither acid nor alka- 
line, but it possesses considerable bleaching powers, and, also, 
arrests decomposition in animal substances. In this latter 
capacity, it is highly conducive to our comfort by obviating 
that intolerable odour which distinguishes the excretions of 
patients in whom the bile is deficient. But, with all this, it 
does not clearly appear how any of its known physical pro- 
perties can aid in the constructive assimilation of nutriment. 
Yet aid it does, most decidedly. If, in consequence of accident 
or disease, the flow of bile into the alimentary canal is wholly 
cut ofi', the animal rapidly emaciates, and dies starved. Even 
when the supply of bile is only partially diminished, as in the 
instance of some of our patients, there is a marked deficiency 
of nutrition, shown in loss of weight and anaBmia. Now, this 

^ Dr. Dobell questious its alkalinity Perhaps it varies with the state 
cf the body. 



ON DIGESTION. 101 

woald not happen if bile were a mere excrementitions fluid 
containing ingredients resulting from the disintegration of the 
tissues, and designed merely for their removal from the body. 
It has assimilative functions to perform beyoud the simple 
drainage of the blood, though what those functions are can be 
expressed only in the vaguest terms at present, and the most 
prudent and most recent physiologists decline to give a definite 
opinion on the uses of the bile. 

5. The intestinal juice is secreted alkaline, and possesses 
the power, like the saliva, of converting starch into sugar ; but, 
unlike that fluid, does not lose its power in presence of an 
acid. It, also, has a certain solvent power over albumen, 
inferior, indeed, to that of the stomach, but stronger in this 
respect, that it is not checked by the bile or pancreatic juice. 

Thus, we see that a meal, as it passes downwards, is irri- 
gated first by a watery fluid which, as it dilates and adds to 
its bulk, dissolves or fits for absorption a great portion of its 
starchy constituents. Then, it is further irrigated by a still 
more dilute fluid, which dissolves its meaty part. Then, the 
fat is washed out of it by the stream of pancreatic juice. And, 
simultaneously, the bile is poured on it in a continuous stream, 
which makes it, in some unexplained way, more easy to be 
taken up as nutriment. Afterwards, the intestinal juice, oozing 
out in small quantities throughout a long canal, seems fitted 
to make up the deficiencies of any of the previous solvent 
acts. 

The daily quantities of these fluids, as estimated, mainly, 
from the results of Drs. Bidder and Schmidt's experiments, 
may be reckoned, at least, to equal the following : — 

Of saliva 3} pints 

Of gastric juice 12 pints 

Of bile 3 J pints 

Of pancreatic juice 1^ pints 

Of intestinal juice i pint 

making in all nearly three gallons. Of this, ninety-six per 
cent, is water, of which only so much passes away in the 



102 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

stools as prevents them firom being inconveniently solid. The 
rest, therefore, that is to say two gallons and a half, is restored 
to the blood by absorption. 

* The clearest notion we can gain of the bnsiness performed 
by all this two dozen pints of water which exnde on the 
mncons membrane of the intestinal canal, and are by the 
same membrane taken np again, is by viewing them as a 
circulation. It is constantly going its rounds like an endless 
chain, finding and taking np inside the solid structure of the 
body substances which ought to come out and be got rid of, 
finding outside nutrimeAt which the body wants, and convey- 
ing it in. 

'Truly, when a man contemplates with the eye of the 
r^a^pn this unceasing journey, this great current so entirely 
removed from the cognisance of our senses, he is at first 
confounded with the novelty of the ideas it excites (ingenti 
motu si/wpefaoiuB aquarwm) a^d almost refuses to receive them. 
It is highly important, therefore, to bring it frequently before 
the mind till it becomes habitual, for there is no view of 
living phenomena so practically weighty for the medical 
man.' * 

In addition to this, there is a quantity of fluid introduced 
as beverage. Water passes straight through the mucous 
membranes unchanged, and alcohol, with a change of no 
weighty importance; and dissolved in them are numerous 
minor substances not strictly dietetic, though valuable by 
acting pleasurably or medicinally on the nervous system. 

Rightly, then, has digestion been likened by an old chemist 
to a process of * rinsing ; ' * all that is required is washed out 
of the alimentary substances, and the remains passed on to 
be got rid of along with the waste products of chemical 
life. 

Of the reason why these various secretions are able to 
digest the various constituents of our food, we know absolutely 

' Digestion and its Derangements, p. 31. 
* Letheby On Food, p. 48. 



ON DIGESTION. 103 

nothing. We find an albuminous matter in saliva, and vre 
call it *j)tyalm ; ' we find an albuminous matter in gastric 
juice, and we call it ^jpepsin ; ' we find an albuminous matter 
in the pancreatic juice, and we call it ^pancreatin ; * but the 
only distinguishing point about each is that it acts upon 
starch, or acts upon flesh-meat, or acts upon fat, just as the 
fluid from whence it was concentrated acts. Ultimate chemical 
analysis merely shows their resemblances, and not their difler- 
ences. The nearest approach to a similar proceeding in nature, 
is the operation of malting, where, aided by heat and moisture, 
starch is turned into sugar by the presence of ' diastatie ; ' and 
it is remarkable enough that when albumen is artificially 
dissolved by gastric juice in the laboratory, a peculiar odour 
somewhat like that of malting is given ofi*. But here our 
information ceases ; there are no more points in diastase, to 
distinguish it chemically from ordinary albumen, than there 
are in pepsin or pancreatin. 

In bringing to bear upon dietetics the observations of 
physiologists, the main things the physician has to consider 
are the mechanical condition in which the food should be 
brought, the influence of its several solvents, and the times 
when they are ready to receive it. 

Chcumig is the first provision made for securing a due 
mechanical condition. The perfection consists in so breaking 
up the mouthful that it should be as completely as possible 
permeated by the saliva. The object of this is, in the case of 
meat, to soften it in preparation for swallowing and for future 
solution in the stomach ; in the case of starchy matter, to 
convert it into * glucose ' or sugar. 

With regard to the amount of chewing required by flesh 
food, there is a good deal of popular misconception. Persons 
with bad, false, or tender teeth are often found to fancy that 
a vegetable diet is more suited to their imperfect power of 
mastication than an animal one ; and we not unfrequently see 
mothers instructing their children carefully to chew meat, and 
neglecting the same precaution in respect of vegetables. 



104 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Physiology teaches an opposite caution. Tt is desirable, 
indeed, that the jaws should break np mnscnlar fibre, 
lest it shonld perchance stick in the gullet, and be cer- 
tainly difficult of penetration by the gastric juice in the 
stomach ; but to a vegetable aliment the performance is 
owing of more important functions. It is still more indis- 
pensable that it should be broken up, for it has to be imme- 
diately acted upon ; and it is indispensable also that it should 
be detained in the mouth till enough saliva to convert its starch 
into glucose has been secreted. Complete mastication, there- 
fore, important for both, is still more important for vegetable 
than for animal food ; and the leisurely performance of the 
operation cannot be prudently omitted by a mixed eater. 

It may serve to remind us of this, to reflect that while 
lions and tigers and wild dogs bolt their food, cows not only 
spend the greater part of the day over their nibbled meals, but 
give it a second chewing when in repose. 

Doubts have been thrown (Dalton's Human Physiology, 
page 116) upon the importance of the action in the mouth to 
the conversion of starch into sugar ; but the following easy 
experiment seems sufficiently convincing. Take some boiled 
starch, say in the shape of arrowroot, and heat it with potassio- 
tartrate of copper. There is no change in the blue colour of 
the salt. Now, put some in the mouth, and hold it a few 
moments only. When it is again heated with potassio- 
tartrate of copper, the metal is precipitated, and shows by its 
brilliant yellow colour an abundant quantity of sugar. 

The saliva, then, begins to convert starch into sugar imme- 
diately ; and it is not slow to extend its operation to the whole 
mass submitted to it. A protraction of the foregoing experi- 
ment will show this. A mouthful of boiled arrowroot held in 
a healthy mouth for five minutes, will show afterwards scarce 
a trace of starch remaining. 

But it is true that the morsel is hardly ever allowed to 
remain in the mouth long enough for its complete conversion ; 
hardly ever is it sufficiently boiled and chewed for the saliva 



ON DIGESTION. 105 

to affect the whole of it. Much free starch and free saliva 
mnst be carried down the oesophagns. During its passage 
the action goes on, and, doubtless, as much saccharine trans- 
formation takes place in the latter as in the former locality. 
But in a minute or two it must arrive at the stomach, and 
there the acidity of the viscus is said to put a stop to the 
saccharisation. On this arrest of the salivary action by the 
presence of acid, Dr. Dalton's opinion of its slight influence in 
digestive solution is grounded. Nevertheless, once that the 
mass has passed through the pylorus, its acidity is neutralised, 
the action of the remaining saliva recommences on the starch 
yet unconverted, and this action is reinforced by the intestinal 
juice. 

By the unconverted starch, I mean not only that which 
was unchanged on arriving at the stomach, but also a good 
deal set free since that stage of digestion. For, besides the 
saliva, there practically comes into play in the solution of 
starch that which I have described as temporarily arresting it, 
to wit, the gastric juice. Cookery, even when most eflBcient, 
rarely ruptures the whole of the granules. Many escape in 
the best, and in bad cookery the majority escape. They can- 
not, therefore, be affected by the saliva, tiU their albuminous 
envelope has been dissolved by the gastric juice. Then, the 
amylaceous matter may be converted into sugar, either, rapidly, 
by the saliva present, or, more slowly, by the pancreatic ahd 
other intestinal secretions. 

For the reduction of starch, therefore, so as to bring 
vegetable food into a condition capable of easy digestion, the 
first point is that the salivary glands should secrete a suffi- 
ciency of fluid ; and this not merely at the time of mastica- 
tion, but that they should go on supplying it as long as any 
starch remains unconverted. Then, it appears extremely pro- 
bable that the gastric glands aid the fature carrying on of the 
process, though the acidity of the stomach prevent its con- 
tinuance at the time of its prevalence. 

Now, the salivary glands in the healthiest persons are 



106 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

liable to derangement from purely external circumstances acting 
on the nervous system. Temporary emotion affects them 
temporarily, and chronic emotion affects them chronically. 
"We all are familiar with the dry Hps of the coward, the lover, 
the pitiful, and how the tongue cleaves to the roof of the 
mouth when pain is endured, or when bad news is brought. 
* Bread eaten in sorrow ' can hardly be swallowed, so long it 
takes to moisten the morsel. Again, bodily exertion parches 
the throat. It cannot be expected that meals of mixed food, 
swallowed when the body is under the influence of the cir- 
cumstances quoted in illustration, should be dissolved, or 
nourish the tissues as they ought. And there is nothing sur- 
prising in the fermentation of the undigested vegetables, and 
the formation of flatulence by the carbonic acid which results. 

Under the same circumstances, a portion of the sohd meat 
remains undissolved, and is often thrown away unaltered by 
vomiting or diarrhoea ; for the stomach is influenced contempo- 
raneously with the mouth, as is clearly shown by the pro- 
verbial loss of appetite from mental causes. 

It is in this arrest of secretion, that the sedative action of 
alcohol comes in useful. It is an anaesthetic, and prevents 
the effect of the nervous system upon the alimentary canal 
from being so deleterious as it has been shown naturally to be. 
A few teaspoonfuls of good strong wine or dilute spirit will 
often restore the lost power of taking food, and is an instinc- 
tive indulgence, as a protective against the sundry blows 
inflicted on digestion by the exciting nature of social life in 
the present regimen of the world. It is possible to imagine 
a state of society, as among the Pitcaim islanders, for ex- 
ample, where everybody was apparently the better for taking 
no alcohol in any form, but even in that instance, the absti- 
nence does not seem to have lengthened life, and it is certain 
that in Europe, it would shorten it for many of our most 
active and useful citizens. 

Equally important is the absorption of the sugar thus 
formed from the starch. In health, a very great part is 



ON DIGESTION. 107 

absorbed in the montli and gnllet, sometimes all, for cHemists 
have great difficulty in finding it in the stomach, nnless it is 
swallowed in excess. Some of it is probably converted into 
the lactic acid, which aids the solution of flesh food, and the 
rest taken up as sugar by the intestines. Still, even in health, 
a good deal of both starch and sngar escape, and appear in 
the fsBces. But, in the catarrhal state, the mucus which lines 
the membrane is an almost impermeable impediment to 
osmosis, from its insolubility in water, and arrests absorption 
in proportion to its quantity. All niucus is a degree of 
disease, and every Briton knows how easily it is formed by 
very slight external influences. 

It is clear, then, that for the easy digestion of starch the 
whole of the alimentary canal must be in a normal condition, 
and the nervous system not exhausted by recent excessive 
use. 

The Mechamcs of Digestion refer to the provision which is 
made for the food being duly brought into the sphere of action 
of the solvents described above. First comes Chewmg, the 
importance of which, as a means of saturating the mass with 
saliva, has been already insisted upon. Here may be mentioned, 
further, the importance of its completeness, for the sake of 
reducing muscular fibre to a fine pulp, so that it may be 
quickly infiltrated by the gastric juice on its arrival in the 
stomach. 

' In the human subject, the teeth combine the characters 
of the camivora and the herbivora. The incisors, four in 
number in each jaw, have, as in other instances, a cutting 
edge running from side to side. The canines, which are 
situated immediately behind the former, are much less promi- 
nent and pointed than in the camivora, and differ less in form 
from the incisors on the one hand, and the first molars on the 
other. The molars again are thick and strong, and have 
comparatively flat surfaces, like those of the herbivora ; but, 
instead of presenting curvilinear ridges, are covered with more 
or less conical eminences, like those of the camivora. In the 



108 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

human subject, therefore, the teeth are evidently adapted for 
a mixed diet, consisting of both animal and vegetable food. 
Mastication is here as perfect as it is in the herbivora, though 
less prolonged and laborious ; for the vegetable substances 
used by man, as already remarked, are previously separated, 
to a great extent, from their impurities, and softened by cook- 
ing, so that they do not require for their mastication so 
extensive and powerful a triturating apparatus. Finally, 
animal substances are more completely masticated in the 
human subject than they are in the camivora, and their diges- 
tion is accordiDgly completed with greater rapidity.' * 

However much natural selection may have rendered 
stronger the surviving species of other animals, it has, in the 
case of the human teeth, proved injurious to the perfection of 
our race. Artists have, unhappily, taught us to see loveliness 
in button mouths, bud-like lips, round dimpled chins, tiny 
pearly teeth, and to recognise aristocracy in hatchet faces. 
You take up a dkull in one of the bone houses near old fields 
of battle (say at Hythe, where Pict and Briton, and others 
besides, grin so grimly at us), and you cannot enough admire 
the evenness, the firmness, the completeness of the set of half- 
worn, yet quite sound teeth ; but you are fain to confess that 
to have a wife, or a son, or a daughter with a prominent 
square jowl like that, would be a severe trial to your aesthetic 
feelings. You are incurably perverted by the mediaBval 
association of moral purity and intellectual refinement with 
pitifully weak jawbones ; and a big-mouthed broad-nosed 
Helen would never have been the mother of your children — 
yet would she have saved you many a dentist's fee. Narrow 
jaws can hold but few teeth ; if the natural numbers come, 
some must be extracted, or else they crowd together, and 
decay from pressure ; and there is no feature which is so 
markedly hereditary as narrow iaws ; as the mother is, so is 
theoffspring. 

When, by the grinding machinery above described, the 

* Balton's Physiology^ chap. vi. p. 109. 



ON DIGESTION. 109 

food has been reduced to a pulp, it is easily embraced by the 
tDbular mnscles of the pharynx and oesophagns, and passed by 
their steady, wavelike motion downwards to the stomach ; the 
passage is opened before it, and its return is prevented by the 
closing of the- tube behind as it goes onwards. The sensibility 
of the oesophagds is so very slight, that we do not, in ordinary 
circumstances, feel the morsel going down ; but if it is peculiar 
in shape and nature, we become aware how slowly and steadily 
it proceeds, and ought to proceed. For during this passage, 
much of the sugar and soluble salts, and the watery part, is 
taken up by absorption, and if it is hurried by bolting mouth- 
ful after mouthful in rapid succession, scant justice is done to 
the victuals, and a lisk of indigestion is incurred. The 
healthy circulation of saliva in this round is very great ; we 
have seen lately how many pints are poured out daily in the 
mouth, and of this but little finds its way to the intestines, the 
rest being taken up in the oesophagus and stomach, principally 
in the former. So, the importance of not interfering with its 
due action can be easily understood. 

Once in the stomach, the mass of food acquires a 
rotation from the wavelike movement kept up by the peri- 
staltic muscles of the stomach. Their alternate contractions 
and relaxations press on the mass, much as the undulations of 
a serpent carry it over the ground — only in the latter case the 
undulating body is free, in the former it is fixed. The sur- 
face, being the part subjected to the moving power, moves 
quicker than the centre, and thus the whole contents of the 
stomach are rotated as a uniform mass, from left to right, 
and continually irrigated by the gastric juice along the de- 
pending, lower, and larger part of the sac. As it passes the 
opening of the pylorus at the other end, the narrowing of the 
sac squeezes out, with a somewhat quicker motion, such por- 
tion as is dissolved into creamy chyme, and it oozes on into 
the duodenum, leaving the still undissolved substances to 
flow along the shorter and upper curve of the stomach back 
to the starting-point. Thus, a slow, rotatory movement of the 



110 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

whole mass is sustained till all is dissolved, or, at least, so far 
reduced in size as to get through the pylorus. 

The rotation seems to be continued in the intestines, if one 
may judge fairly of the action of their peristaltic fibres by the 
movements seen, immediately after death, in the intestines of 
a vigorous animal slaughtered for food. And the biliary 
ducts appear, also, to have a peristaltic action, rolling out gra- 
dually and regulating the flow of bile into the duodenum. 
Now, over all these involuntary and unfelt but constant wave- 
like movements, the nervous system presides ; and they are, 
without doubt, seriously affected by all that affects the nervous 
system, notably by mental emotion and bodily exhaustion. 
The oesophagus is sometimes so paralysed by a sudden shock 
during a meal, that it does not close behind the victuals 
swallowed, and they are thrown up by a sort of regurgitation. 
Even some hours after a meal, the arrest of the stomach's 
action by emotion may cause vomiting. And many instances 
are on record of a mental emotion so arresting the biliary 
ducts as to produce jaundice. The late Dr. Macleod, of St. 
George's Hospital, used to relate a scene which he saw in his 
own practice : a young lady "^th distended abdomen was 
charged with being privately married, and her eyes and skin 
had got bright yellow before he left the room. And, in the 
wild times, when people really did get into a passion some- 
times, they are stated by bystanders to have often become 
jaundiced. Few of us have ever seen an adult in a rage of 
the old sort, so that we must not question the accuracy of the 
statement. 

Whether absorption of the dissolved alimentary substances 
is affected by similar causes is not clear. I see no reason to 
suppose that it is, as endosmosis is such a purely physical act, 
that the nervous system can control it only very indirectly. 
But, as the supply is cut off, it cannot, of course, be active 
during the prevalence of such interferences. 

The subject of the impediments to digestion arising out 
of disease of various kinds, is of too great weight to be cited 



OK DIGESnOK. Ill 

merely as an fllttstratioD, and will be considered more fitly in 
a fdtnre part of the volnme. Here is the place for a few 
reflections on the suitability of different articles of food. 

Aliments may be called digestible when they 3rield readily 
an their nntritions particles to the flnids destined for their 
reduction to chyme. It is clear from what has gone before, 
that a comparative estimate of their digestibility cannot be 
made merely by reckoning, as Dr. Beaumont did, the duration 
of their mjonm in the stomach. That well-known physician 
is familiar to all, from having made a series of observations on 
a Canadian voyageur who had a permanent opening into his 
stomach, a healed gunshot wound. This was easily looked 
into, and the time consumed before the victuals passed out 
noted. But the results, which are often taken as an in^Eillible 
guide by the dietician, are not truly in accordance with what 
general expencnce teaches us on this matter. For example, 
salt tripe or pig's trotters, by this theory, take only one third 
of the time demanded by roast beef, the former dish being 
dissolved in the stomach in one hour, and the latter requiring 
three, while veal took four hours and a half. Sour-crout 
seemed to be twice as digestible as soup made of beef and 
vegetables. Mutton was three quarters of an hour longer in 
digesting than beef, and so on. Green vegetables, again, are 
hardly at all touched by the gastric juice — are we therefore 
to conclude that they are useless ? — surely, the general obser- 
vation that they are very digestible by a healthy man is more 
in accordance with fact. 

I do not lay much stress on the objection to these experi- 
ments arising out of individual peculiarity of constitution ; 
for in fact the subject of observation was a remarkably robust 
man, little affected by external circumstances, and able to 
carry on, in spite of the hole in his side, the laborious duty of 
conducting timber-raflts down the American rapids. 

In order to give observations like Dr. Beaumont's their 
full value, they should be corrected by a set of similar tests 
conducted upon the duodenum and ilia, for which a good 



114 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

require for its digestion. When time and strength have to 
be economised, or where a full quantity is required for pur- 
poses of nutrition, it is wise to adhere to the leading names 
on the list. Where moderation can be calculated upon, and 
fiill leisure secured, a healthy man cannot be called imprudent 
for indulging his appetite for variety by descending to the 
very bottom. Indeed, to do so, within reasonable bounds, 
contributes to high health ; for it is certain that an important 
element in making the most of food is variety. It is not 
enough to supply in proper amount the proximate dietetic sub- 
stance ; both in our own race and in domestic animals there 
is risk of a feJling off in condition unless different substances 
of the same class are employed in rotation. The very strongest, 
perhaps, can bear uniformity without injury, but to the average 
man or beast it is as finally noxious as it is distasteful. Dr. 
Parkes suggests that the good efiect of variety is probably on 
primary digestion, improving the appetite and so causing 
more food to be taken by counteracting the cloying result of 
sameness.^ But I think it goes further than that, for few can 
fail to have noticed in their own personal experience, if once 
the attention be called to it, how often a most indigestible 
dish, when partaken of as an occasional luxury, has seemed 
to sit easy on the stomach, and to nourish well though its 
quantity has been spare. The great art is to give it time and 
ippace, and to be moderate. 

Dr. Parkes makes the further very practical suggestion, 
that where variety of sort of food is unattainable, variety of 
cookery, to a certain extent, fulfils the same object. 

Table of Precedence in BigeatihUity of some Articles of Animal Food. 

Sweet-bread, and lamb's trotters. 

Boiled chicken. 

Venison. 

Lightly boiled eggs, new toasted cheese. 

* Parkes, Practical Hygiene^ p. 186, 4tli edit. 



ON DIGESTION. 115 

Boast fowl, turkey, partridge, and pheasant 

Lamb, wild dock. 

Oysters, periwinkles. 

Omelette (?), tripe (?). 

Boiled sole, haddock, skate, trout, perch. 

Tripe and chitterlings.* 

Boast beet 

Boiled beefL 

Bump steak. 

Boast yeaL 

Boiled veal, rabbit. 

Salmon, mackerel, herring, pilchard, sprat. 

Hard boiled and fried eggs. 

"Wood pigeon, hare. 

Tame pigeon, tame duck, goose. 

Fried fish. 

Boast and boiled pork. 

Heart, liver, lights, milt, and kidneys oi ox, swine, and sheep. 

Lobsters, shrimps, prawns. 

Smoked, dried, salt, and pickled fish. 

Crab. 

Bipe old cheese. 

Cayiare. 

The comparative digestiHlity of varions yesgetable dishes 
is easier to estimate than that of animal food ; it is in a direct 
ratio to the fisudlity with which thay are reducible into a 
homogeneous mass, by mechanical means, from their natural 
form. And they are more readily digested if this reduction 
takes place through chewing in the mouth, rather than by 
mashing in the kitchen, as they in the first way become per- 
meated more thoroughly by the saliva. I^ on the score of 
defective teeth or other reasons, a preference is ^ven to 
artificially' broken-up vegetables, they should be retained in 
the mouth longer than is required by the mere preparation 
for swallowing. 

The influence of the mind over digestion must not be for- 
gotten. ' Bread eaten in sorrow ' remains unabsorbed, and it 

* The 'tripe' as made in America would seem from Dr. Beaumont's 
account to be more digestible than the rich dish we prepare from it hern. 

I 2 



112 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

opportunity has not yet occurred. Experiments on animals 
have been made, it is true ; and they establish the fact that 
the intestinal juice is of great importance, and that the pancreeis, 
if not the liver, aids in the solution of food ; * but the alimen- 
tary canal, and the habitual diet, of the lower creatures are 
so different from ours, that a comparison of the behaviour of 
different articles of food in their case, affords no piuctical 
experience for human dietetics. 

Something in the way of a comparative estimate might be 
made by laboratory experiments on the juices removed from 
the body, separately and mixed. Pending advances in this 
direction, the following general conclusions are, perhaps, all 
the rules our knowledge enables us to lay down : — 

The degree of Cohesion has an important infiuence wpon 
digestibility. — Tough articles, incapable of being ground up by 
tbe teeth, remain unused by the alimentary organs, while 
fluids and semi-fluids lead the van of digestibles. The tissues 
of young vegetables and young animals are, for this reason, 
more digestible than those of old specimens of the same 
class. And emasculated beasts, having softer muscles, are 
better suited for the table than perfeot males. It is desirable 
also that the post-mortem rigidity, which lasts several days in 
some animals, should have merged in softness before the meat 
is cooked. But this object, usually attained by hanging in 
the larder, may be arrived at equally well by immediate 
cooking, before the rigidity has set in. In warm climates 
and exceptionally warm weather, the latter course is the pre- 
ferable of the two. 

That culinary preparation is the most efficacious, which 
most breaks up the natural cohesion of the viands. And it 
may be obsierved that the force of cohesion acts in all direc- 
tions ; and it is of no use for a viand to be laterally friable, if 
it remains in longitudinal strings. 

Fat interposed between the component parts of food diminishes 

^ See the plates illustrative of Dr. Dalton's experiments, Human Phi/s., 
p. 146. 



ON DIGESTION. 113 

its digestibilUy. — It is the iatestinal layer of fat between the 
bundles of fibres of beef that makes it less digestible than 
mutton, and that causes larded meats often to disagree. 

Dilution favou/rs digestibility, — ^Yet it may be carried too 
far. Even water will sometimes run through the alimentary 
canal, carrying on too rapidly the matters dissolved in it. And 
inert substances, such as woody fibre, if mixed up in too great 
quantity with food, dilute it so much that the central parts of 
the mass do not come at the digestive mucous membrane. 
G-elatine, probably in the same way, retards the digestion ot 
food if too concentrated. 

Too high a temperature retwrds digestion. — It is not merely 
that the gastric, and presumably the other digestive solvents, 
are decomposed by heat above that of the body, but the 
amount of secretion and the muscular acts necessary to 
forward solution are arrested by its local action. This applies 
principally to starchy foods, which are often taken hotter 
than at all suits the salivary glands. Meat has time to cool 
before it gets down to the laboratory prepared for it in the 
stomach. 

The application of these rules to practice is not difficult ; 
but it is obviously impossible to compare articles of diet unless 
th^ are of a definite quality ; and, therefore, it will be under- 
stood that all those spoken of are supposed to be of the very 
best sort, and dressed in the way best adapted for securing 
their virtues. 

Some years ago, I printed what I called a ' Ladder of meat- 
diet for invalids,' ^ which I will repeat in a future part of this 
volume, when we come to consider the regimen of the sick. I 
there conclude with roast joint of mutton, which is the * pro- 
mised land ' of the convalescent ; so, that dish may fairly here 
begin the list, which may form a sort of skeleton framework^ 
from its actual or possible position in which may be judged 
roughly the comparative time which each article is likely to 

' Tie IndigesHons, p. 101, Srd edit, Philadelphia, 1870. 

I 



114 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

require for its digestion. When time and strength have to 
be economised, or where a full quantity is required for pur- 
poses of nutrition, it is wise to adhere to the leading names 
t)n the list. Where moderation can be calculated upon, and 
full leisure secured, a healthy man cannot be called imprudent 
for indulging his appetite for variety by descending to the 
very bottom. Indeed, to do so, within reasonable bounds, 
contributes to high health ; for it is certain that an important 
element in making the most of food is variety. It is not 
enough to supply in proper amount the proximate dietetic sub- 
stance ; both in our own race and in domestic animals there 
is risk of a falling off in condition unless different substances 
of the same class are employed in rotation. The very strongest, 
perhaps, can bear uniformity without injury, but to the average 
man or beast it is as finally noxious as it is distasteful. Dr. 
Parkes suggests that the good effect of variety is probably on 
primary digestion, improving the appetite and so causing 
more food to be taken by counteracting the cloying result of 
sameness.^ But I think it goes further than that, for few can 
fail to have noticed in their own personal experience, if once 
the attention be called to it, how ofben a most indigestible 
dish, when partaken of as an occasional luxury, has seemed 
to sit easy on the stomach, and to nourish well though its 
quantity has been spare. The great art is to give it time and 
ippace, and to be moderate. 

Dr. Parkes makes the further very practical suggestion, 
that where variety of sort of food is unattainable, variety of 
cookery, to a certain extent, fulfils the same object. 

Table of Precedence in IHgeatihUity of some Articles of Animal Food, 

Sweet-bread, and lamb's trotters. 

Boiled chicken. 

Venison. 

Lightlj boiled eggs, new toasted cheese. 

^ Parkes, Practical Hygiene^ p. 18 6, 4tli edit. 



ON DIGESTION. 115 

Boast fowl, turkey, partridge, and pheasant. 

Lamb, wild duck. 

Oysters, periwinkles. 

Omelette (?), tripe (?). 

Boiled sole, haddock, skate, tronfc, perch. 

Tripe and chitterlings.* 

Roast beef. 

Boiled beet 

Eiimp steak. 

Boast Teal. 

Boiled veal, rabbit. 

Salmon, mackerel, herring, pilchard, sprat. 

Hard boiled and fried eggs. 

"Wood pigeon, hare. 

Tame pigeon, tame duck, goose. 

Fried fish. 

Boast and boiled pork. 

Heart, liver, lights, milt, and kidneys of ox, swine, and sheep. 

Lobsters, shrimps, prawns. 

Smoked, dried, salt, and pickled fish. 

Crab. 

Bipe old cheese. 

Caviare. 

The comparative digestibility of various vesgetable dishes 
is easier to estimate than that of animal food ; it is in a direct 
ratio to the fecility with which they are reducible into a 
homogeneous mass, by mechanical means, from their natural 
form. And they are more readily digested if this reduction 
takes place through chewing in the mouth, rather than by 
mashing in the kitchen, as they in the first way become per- 
meated more thoroughly by the saliva. I^ on the score of 
defective teeth or other reasons, a preference is ^iven to 
artificially* broken-up vegetables, they should be retained in 
the mouth longer than is required by the mere preparation 
for swallowing. 

The influence of the mind over digestion must not be for- 
gotten. ' Bread eaten in sorrow ' remains nnabsorbed, and it 

^ The 'tripe' as made in America would seem from Dr. Beaumont*8 
account to be more digestible than the rich dish we prepare from it hem. 

I 2 



116 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

is not witbont reason that, even in the earliest times and 
among the most barbarous tribes, companionship dnnng meals 
Has always been sought. It is not only painful reflections 
which disturb the digestion; any concentrated thought is 
equally injurious, and injurious in a close proportion to the 
intellectual powers of the individual. The only people fit to 
feed alone are those fluttering butterflies whose intellects do 
not dispose them to concentrate their thoughts, and whose 
good luck exempts them from the need of trying. And 
even these instinctively seek society. To the brain worker 
and the body worker, cheerful distraction at meal times is a 
rule of imperious necessity, the habitual neglect of which 
entails chronic disease and the early failure of vital powers as 
a certain punishment. 

The adjuncts of jGEimily meals should be studiously made 
as agreeable as possible. A change of clothes, clean hands, 
and courteous manners, should not be reserved for company, 
but enforced as a daily habit. If allowed to be omitted, it 
becomes a labour instead of a matter of course. Table 
decking is an elegant art, capable of exhibiting the good 
sense, as well as the good taste, of the artist, and highly pro- 
motive of ease of mind in the company, however small, or 
however familiar. If flowers are lacking, there are always 
leaves to be had, and I have seen toadstools with mosses and 
lichens so arranged as to form a centrepiece that Cellini must 
have praised. I do not see why we should not have music 
and singing at domestic meals, as well as at city feasts. All 
are not eating at once, and a change of performers might be 
kept up as long as required. The cook, also, should be en- 
couraged to make the dishes which are exposed to the eye 
as pleasant to look at las possible, not so much by adorn- 
ment, which is apt to be vulgar, as by concealing all that 
is untidy and suggestive of painful ideas. The forms of 
animals, in fact anything which makes us remember that 
the food has been a living animal at all, should never be 
conspicuously displayed, but rather covered with such vege- 



ON DIGESTION. 117 

table garnish as is capable of harmoiiisiiig with the character 
of the dish. 

Ease of body, as well as of mind, is requisite for complete 
digestion. Mascnlar exertion should be avoided immediately 
before and immediately after all substantial meals. The re- 
pose previous need not be long ; a nap of forty winks, dressing, 
and washing, are usually enough to prepare even an exhausted 
pedestrian or hard rider for a good dinner. The best test of 
due preparation is a healthy appetite without any feeling of 
faintness or squeam. The rest after meals requires rather 
more judgment and self-control. Instinct induces us to take 
it, but does not tell us to avoid excess. Now, it is certain that 
to a healthy person excess is very possible. Sleep, for example, 
after dinner retards digestion, and allows the distended 
stomach to act injuriously on the circulation of the brain. It 
is proper only for very aged persons or invalids. 

I have heard it argued by persons more ready at observing 
the facts of natural history than at reasoning upon them, or 
perhaps still readier at finding an excuse for laziness, that 
dogs and other carnivorous animals naturally betake them- 
selves to sleep after a repast. That is true, but, then, it must 
be remembered, that in the wild state their chance of a meal 
comes but seldom, they must take the food when they can 
get it, and to guard against starvation oveHoad their stomachs. 
The, lethargy which follows is a necessity, and there is no 
evidence that it prolongs their lives. Those breeds of dogs 
which live most in the company of man, and feed on the 
mixed and cooked diet of their masters, usually give up the 
practice of sleeping after meals along with their gluttony, 
and to all appearance seem to suffer less frequently from in- 
digestion than their cousins at the kennels, who require very 
careful treatment to preserve their health. 

The best employment after a hearty meal is Mvolous con- 
versation, accompanied by such gentle sauntering movements 
as are encouraged by a well ventilated drawing-room or 
garden. Then is the time, also, for those true games where 



118 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Inck and skill are so combined as to have the character of 
game and not of business. 

I have ventured so far to go beyond "what might seem the 
limit of a dietician's tether, because it is upon these social 
considerations that depends the determination of the best 
times of meals for healthy persons. For the heaviest repasts, 
those hours should be selected when we can secure to the 
fullest extent leisure of mind and body, and the opportunity of 
applying the aids mentioned above as tending to promote 
them. It is useless to prescribe the times for meals, or even 
their number, unless with a regard to the disposal of the 
remainder of the day, whether that is regulated by choice or 
necessity. 

The intervals between meals, also, depend on the occupa- 
tions which fill them up. Sleep retards digestion, and there- 
fore a considerably longer period may be allowed to elapse 
between the last food at night and the first in the morning 
than is suitable during the day. Violent exercise of mind or 
body also retards digestion, and therefore, when this is prac- 
tised, food is not called for so soon as on a day of rest. I 
have often observed that, in spite of a late breakfast, a keen 
appetite often comes on Sundays before one o'clock to lawyers 
and merchants, who on working days do not care to eat tUl 
two or three, nor even then. Whereas, busy medical men whose 
work is more continuous, though less severe, adopt the early 
Sunday dinner hour only with reluctance. 

There can hardly be any exceptions to the rule, that after 
the night's sleep, and the long fast which has emptied the 
digestive organs, food should be taken before any of the 
material business of the day is taken in hand. Work done 
before breakfast is more tiring, and, with due deference to 
certain well-meaning enthusiasts for early rising, is not done so 
well as after the stomach has been fortified with what it must 
require, if in a healthy state. The hour of rising must, there- 
fore, regulate the hour of breakfast. It is no proof of health 
or vigour to forego it without inconvenience, nay rather the 



ON DIGESTION. 119 

contrary ; but it is proof of health and vigonr to be able to 
lay in then a solid foundation for the day's labour. The 
natural appetite for food should be fully and completely ap- 
peased ; and if there is a desire for meat, there is no reason 
for declining it ; indeed, where mental work has to be done, it 
had better not be omitted. For mere bodily toQ, a breakfast 
merely farinaceous, such as porridge, bread, milk, and butter, 
is most adapted, to which the usual additions de Iv/xe may be 
made according to choice. 

Not more than five hours should elapse before food is again 
taken. To some persons, from habitual neglect, the appetite 
does not arrive so soon ; and then if they sit down to an un- 
accustomed luncheon, they feel stupefied by it, and quote this 
experience as an evidence that a mid-day meal is unwholesome 
for them. The stomach requires a gradual education after it 
has got into bad habits ; so, beginning with a biscuit and a 
little milk, the patient should advance in quantity, till he arrives 
at the amount which is shown to be the proper amount by his 
sitting down to his subsequent dinner hungry and unexhausted. 
The proper amount varies much in different persons and dif*- 
f erent circumstances, and the only general description that can 
be applied to it is ' moderate.' 

Instead of a light intercalary meal, some families prefer 
to take a substantial high dinner in the middle of the day. 
This seems to suit idle people and children^ but if hard work 
has to be resumed immediately afterward*, very frequently 
indigestion is the result. It is the cause of that form of 
congestive dyspepsia to which the middle classes in Germany 
are extremely subject, and which drives them instinctively to 
eliminative mineral waters, like swallows to the South. 

The best time for an adult's largest meal is when the busi^ 
ness of the day is done, say, somewhere between five and eight* 
If it is taken earlier, there is time to get hungry again before 
bed-time ; and if later, sleep comes too soon on the top of it. 
For light eaters the later hours, for heavy eaters earHer hours 
are most suitable* It may be observed that the court dinners 



120 eENERAL DIETGTICS. 

of citj companies and the meny-makiiigs of Greenwich 
ichthyophagists, where the guests meet to eat largely, are 
"QBiially early. 

It is superfluous for a healthy person, not influenced by 
any of the peculiar circumstances which will be hereafter 
considered, to devote special attention to considerations con- 
cerning the wholesomeness or digestibility of his dinner. He 
is a;pt to leave off this and leave off that, under the impression 
that they have once disagreed with him, till his bill of &re 
becomes most injuriously restricted. Variety in diet is of 
essential importance to healthy and a succession of several im- 
perfect or even unwholesome kinds of food is better than a 
monotonous repetition of a perfect aliment. Occasional feasts 
and occasional fasts constitute the natural mode of life for an 
intellectoal and social animal. This paragraph applies to all 
meals, but I have inserted it apropos of dinner as being the 
principe^ 

By variety is implied^ not a great number of dishes at 
once, which is confusing and oppressive, and destructive of 
the object aimed at, but a frequent (why not daily P) differ- 
ence in the principal dish, to which the few other accessory 
dishes are harmonised. Some of the most appetising dinners 
one has ever eaten have really consisted of one article, novel 
and unexpected. The famous Mrs. Poyser sagely remarked 
that a man's stomach likes to be surprised, and no surprise is 
possible if the same monotonous superfluity is repeated day 
after day. 

In the course of the evening a cup of tea seems to give a 
fresh fillip to digestion, and supplies liqnid which is required 
for solution of the viands. Some persons are afraid of its 
keeping them awake, and will And a good substitute in extem- 
pore lemonade — a cup of hot water poured on a slice of lemon, 
some chips of the rind, and a lump of sugar. But tea of an 
afternoon is by no means to be recommended. The habit of 
taking it began as a sort of fashionable whim about a dozen 
years ago, but has spread so far downwards through the 



.... ' . »• ■ .• 



ON DiaEsnoN. , 121 

middle classes that medical men onght to efxeri tliemselres to 
stop it. If tlie dinner lionr is so late that too long a time 
interposes between it and luncheon, let the latter be moved 
onwards, and, if necessaiy, breakfast also. For the dilution 
and washing away of the gastric secretion weakens its power 
of digesting the subsequent dinner, improperly blunts the 
appetite, and not unfrequently generates flatulence and 
dyspepsia. A biscuit, and an orangi or an ice is a much less 
injurious indulgence at the same hour. 

A man in health ought to be satisfied with three meals a 
day, and should educate his stomach to take enough at them 
to supply his requirements. The practice of constantly 
nibblmg at odd times induces s flow of saUva almost con- 
ixnuous, like that of herbivorous ammals, and neutralises the 
gastric juice, so that meat is not fully digested. 

The last meal should be sufficiently late for the whole not to 
be absorbed before retiring to rest. Gk>ing to bed hungry is 
liable to induce a habit of restlessness at night. If business 
or pleasure keep you up much longer than usual, it is better 
to take a light farinaceous supper, which, in this case, induces 
sleep. This, however, is a very different thing from sleep in 
a state of repletion, which (as was before observed) disturbs 
the circulation in the brain, producing painful dreams, unre- 
freshing rest, and feverishness. 

An average adult may consider that he is talcing enough 
to supply the ordinary requirements of healthy activity, if he 
eats in twenty-four hours the equivalents of a pound of meat 
and two pounds of bread. The English soldier, on home 
service, receives from Government f lb. of meat and 1 lb. of 
bread, and he buys about ^ lb. additional bread and 1 lb., or so, 
of other vegetable food.^ Dr. Parkes calculates that this 
quantity of nitrogenous aliment is somewhat deficient for the 
maintenance of high vigour, so that I have ventured to add 
i lb. of animal food, reducing by a few ounces the supply of 
vegetables. 

' Parkes, Practical Ifygiate/ar Medical Officers of the Army, p. 623. 



122 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

The nearer a man approximates to this allowance the 
better, if he has no individual peculiarities of size, tempera- 
ment, occupation, climate, or state of health to allow for. To 
all but exceptional cases, anything beyond this is excess — not 
hurtful necessarily, perhaps even beneficial as an occasional 
change, but still an excess. To continue such excess as a 
daily habit, puts a person in a position more prone to ill health 
than he would be naturally. To err by defect is equally in- 
jurious if persisted in; but it has this advantage, that it 
oftener obtains a compensation which to a considerable extent 
rectifies the balance. Thus, the soldier at home, above quoted 
in illustration, gets frequent little treats, partly out of his 
own and partly out of others' pockets, which fill up the 
comers left by the government ration. And, perhaps, the 
most perfect diet is one just within the limit proposed, with 
an occasional transgression as a change. 

It is possible, certainly, for a high liver to make an 
equivalent change by abstinence ; and if he is lucky enough 
to be ill and go to a doctor, he is perhaps advised to do so ; 
but I have never yet known one to fast voluntarily as a pre- 
servative to health, though he must have often felt the bene- 
ficial effects of its being forced upon him. It is forced upon 
hiTTi^ sometimes, as a direct consequence of the habit of over- 
eating ; a surfeit of accumxdation comes on, or he brings it on 
by going a little further than usual, and then nausea and loss 
of appetite perform the good office of making a change by 
cutting off the supplies. Unless relieved in this way, the 
high liver gets torpid and stupid by day, restless by night, 
there is a sluggish circulation in the veins from the over- 
loading of the blood with useless material, there are conges- 
tions and engorgements of the internal organs, and dark dirty 
discolorations of the skin, thick urine, flying unaccountable 
pains, neuralgia, rheumatism, gout, obesity. 

The evils of too great restriction of food will be considered 
in a future chapter, when we come to the subject of poverty 
as a modifying circumstance in dietetics. 



NUTRITION. 123 



/ 



CHAPTER V. 



KUTBITIOK. 



With the passage of the liquefied alimentary substances 
through the mucoos membrane lining the tnbe, digestion, 
strictly so called, ends. Anything which afterwards occars 
to the incoming matter may more properly be classed with 
nntrition. 

Prominent among the needfdl changes in th^ material for 
bailding np the tissues, stands that which takes place in the 
liver. The biliary secretion from this organ has been spoken 
of in the previous chapter as taking a part, though not a lead- 
ing part, in the solution of fat in water, as staying the too 
rapid decomposition of albuminous food and excretory matter, 
and as supplying some of the liquid vehicle in which the ali- 
ment is conveyed through the walls of the digestive tube. In 
all these the liver is subordinate, and its place may be readily 
supplied. But the anaamic degeneration of the blood, the 
gradual pining emaciation, and ulceration of the tissues, and 
finally death, which follow its suppression — all of which point 
to some deficiency of assimilative capacity and not merely to 
the stoppage of an excretion — show that it performs in the 
circle of life some special duty which cannot be spared or 
replaced by another gland. The blood going into the liver is 
altered before it comes out of the liver much further than is 
involved in the mere formation of bile. 

During the last thirty years, the changes, necessary to life, 
wrought on the blood by the liver have engaged a large share 
of the attention of physiologists. I have been comparing the 



^ T 



0t 






t 



*t.> 



CHAPTER I. 

EEGIMBN OP INFANCY AND MOTHEEHOOD. 

It may be presnmed no Englishman doubts that the best food 
for a new-bom in&«nt is a mother's milk.^ Even deviations 
from the normal condition of the general system, or of the 
breast, should not be allowed too readily to deter a mother 
from suckling, till there is evidence that the secretion is 
disagreeing with the child. Unless diarrhoea or thrush occur, 
it may be taken for gpranted that proper nutriment is afforded, 
and if proper nutriment is afforded, we may be sure a woman's 
health is not affected by the inconveniences which she may be 
enduring. 

I have known a woman, unable to feed herself from severe 
rheumatic fever, have her child held to her breast and be 
nourished only from thence, without any harm following. 
And in several instances slight inflammation of the breast has 
seemed to ' be benefited by the flow of milk induced by 
suckling. Indeed, I have once seen a breast with an abscess 
in it supply healthy nutriment to a child, the mother feeling 
sure that the abscess did not communicate with the lacteal 
tubes. I fancy no medical man would sanction a persistence 

* Strange to say the opinion is not nniversal. Dr. Bronzet (Sur Vidu- 
cation MSdicinale des Enfania^ i. p. 166) expresses a wish that the State 
should interfere and prevent mothers from suckling their children, lest they 
should commnnicate disease and vice ! A still more determined pessimist 
was the famous chemist Van Helmont, who thought life is reduced to its 
present shortness by our instinctire infantile propensity, and proposed to 
substitute bread boiled in beer and honey for milk, which he calls * brute's 
food ' (in the chapter * Infantis nutritio ad yitam longam'). 

K 



"1 




130 DIET IN HEALTH. 

in the latter risk, but still it were to be wished that our 
accoucheurs would be somewhat less hasty than they generally 
are in debarring mothers from suckling on slight grounds. 
A certain injustice is inflicted on the child, and a problematical 
benefit conferred on the parent. 

During the months of suckling it should be the object of the 
mother first to provide herself with an appetite, and secondly 
to provide herself with proper food. The appetite often fails 
simply from want of fresh air, especially in those who are 
XLsed to enjoy it, the remedy for which state of things is suffi- 
ciently obvious. Sometimes the disrelish for food is a symp- 
tom of the exhaustion induced by the labour, and then small 
doses of sal volatile or a light bitter, such as gentian, will 
remove it. Sometimes it is a direct gastric anaemia, arising 
from going too long without food. The patient should eat 
directly she begins to feel hungry, and not wait to feel very 
hungry. But at the same time she should be carefal not to 
overload the stomach; in fact, though she eats often, she 
should not eat more than when in ordinary healthy exercise. 
A great mistake is often made by endeavouring to supply the 
wants of strength and appetite by an extra supply of wine or 
malt liquor. The nurse should never take more than she is 
accustomed to ; if she does, it makes her eat less and digest 
less, though she does not feel the debility which is the conse- 
quence of the innutrition. Beer increases the quantity of 
the milk, just as it increases the quantity of the urine, but it 
also renders it thin and watery in the one case as in the other. 
Indeed less than she is accustomed to is the more rational 
rule of diet, for the happy peaceful circumstances of her situa- 
tion usually exempt her from the mental wear and tear, and 
the exhaustions of the nervous system incidental to social life 
which it is the special purpose of alcohol to compensate. 

The most proper food is cow's milk, fresh and unskimmed. 
It can be taken at all times, in a great variety of forms, and 
nobody has ever been known to take too much. If it turns 
sour, lime water mixed with it not only corrects its aces- 



INFA^^CY AND MOTHERHOOD. 131 

cence, bnt also supplies a valuable aid to the growing bones 
of the infant. In the solid dietary again, milk may fairly be 
taken as the type of the due admixture of alimentary prin- 
ciples, because not individual growth, not the production of 
force, but the secretion of that very substance is the object of 
the selection of diet. So that we cannot do better than take 
the proportions of nitrogenous, carbonaceous, and -aqueous 
constituents of the lacteal secretion as a guide to the propor- 
tions of these principles in the diet of nursing mothers. 
Analyses of milk are to be found in all physiological works, 
and if it be reckoned roughly that in food as presented for our 
consumption, there is 50 per cent, of combined water, I think 
it will be found that the following scale of diet corresponds 
pretty closely to the proportion of the several constituents 
there enumerated. 

Supposing the fiill diet to consist of three pounds of solid 
food, that will require six pints extra of uncombined aqueous 
fluid to make it as fluid as milk. And the three pounds of 
solid food should consist of 

14^ oz. of meat, 

13 oz. of fat, butter, sugar, 

20 oz. of farinaceous food and vegetables, 

^ an oz. of salt, lime, &c. 

Small women and small eaters, especially if they have small 
children to bring up, will require less ; but let the reduction 
be proportionate in each of the several classes of alimentary 
substances. And at first from the exhaustion of parturition, 
from the want of exercise and of fresh air, the appetite turns 
against meat. Let then milk, especially boiled milk with 
arrowroot or the like, chicken broth, egg custards, fill up the 
deficiency. Only insist that enough is taken. 

The observations by Dr. Barker of New Tork on this 
subject are so much to the point that I cannot forbear quoting 
them. He says, * Give the puerperal woman as good nutritious 
food as she has an appetite for, and can easily digest and 
assimilate. Tou will at first find many nurses who will not 

K 2 



132 DIET IN HEALTH. 

accept tHese views, and they may fail to carry out your direc- 
tions in this particnlar; but my experience has been that 
after a time the intelligent ones become enthusiastic converts 
to this course. . , . Tonr patients rest and sleep better, and 
their functions are established with less disturbance than 
they would be with a spare or insufficient diet. Since I have 
adopted . this measure with my puerperal women, I am very 
sure I have much less frequently met with those annoying 
and troublesome nervous phenomena that so commonly follow 
parturition, as the nervous system is then apt to be in a con- 
dition of exalted susceptibility. The function of lactation is 
thus generally established without that disturbance of the 
system called milk fever, formerly so conmion.' ^ 

It may be noticed that the Professor says nothing about 
wine and malt liquors. They are conspicuous by their ab- 
sence in his dietary. And in truth the less a nursing mother 
takes of them the better, so that her temper and digestion do 
not obviously suffer from the restriction. 

The child should be put to the mother's breast as soon as 
she wakes from her first sound sleep after its birth. The 
waiting for three or four days is an old-fashioned relic of the 
days of drugging, when it was considered wrong that the 
young bowels should be relaxed by the colostrum of the first 
milk, but right that they should be griped with castor oil. 
Not to use the first milk is wasteful and injurious. The best 
substitute for it is cow's milk diluted and sweetened as here- 
inafter described. 

The education of the infant must begin immediately after 
birth. In the first place it has to be taught to suck, for 
which every monthly nurse has her own device, and will only 
laugh at any male who should presume to interfere. Next it 
has to be taught not to be always sucking, whenever the 
whim takes it or the mother comes in sight. Regular defi- 
nite times, the intervals between which are gradually lengfch- 

* * The Puerperal Diseases/ Clinical Lectures delivered at Bellevus Ho»* 
fUal, by Fordyce Barker, M J)., p. 27. 



INFANCY AND MOTHERHOOD. 133 

ened as the child's strength and growth allow, give a rest 
both to the stomach of the receiver and the breast of the 
giver, which conduces to the due digestion^of the nourishment. 
As a general rule the daily allowance of milk required by a 
healthy infant is on the first day very small indeed ; on the 
second day it takes about a quarter of a pint ; on the third 
day two thirds of a pint ; on the fourth or fifth day it will 
consume a full pint. And this quantity augments gradually 
till by the sixth month you must not calculate on less than 
two pints being wanted. The distribution should be in an 
inverse ratio to the quantity. During the first two months 
the child should have the breast eight or nine times daily, if 
the quantity yielded is small, and six or seven times if it is 
large. After that a gradual reduction may be begun, which 
before weaning should have arrived at the number of four 
meals daily, which is the most proper for the digestion of 
mixed diet. 

If a mother, with or without reasonable cause, deputes her 
duties to a wet nurse, she ought thoroughly to understand 
that the expedient is not without drawbacks. All the best 
accoucheurs agree that in choosing a woman for the office, 
observation of the figure, the complexion, the colour, the teeth, 
or even the shape and development of the breasts, and the 
analysis of their secretion are all unimportant compared with 
& knowledge of the regularity of the catamenia. In this 
respect, it stands to reason we must take the applicant's own 
character of herself, a serious temptation to dishonesty. An 
unmarried woman may not improbably have a concealed 
constitutional taint which is communicable through the 
milk, and at the best is an unpleasant inmate in the family. 
A poor married woman, however respectable, is removed from 
a starving home to sudden abundance, and invariably overeats 
herself, and it is fortunate if she does not overdrink herself 
too. She pines and grows anxious about her own child if it 
is alive, and insists upon having her troublesome husband to 
see her openly or secretly, on the pretence (a fallacious one) 



134 DIET IN HEALTH. 

that his visit increases the flow of milk. Moreover, a rich 
mother cannot bnt feel some compunction in purchasing for 
her own offspring what is stolen from another, who is some- 
times seriously affected by the fraud, and retires disgusted 
from this false world. 

At all events, a trial ought to be first made, under the 
superintendence of a medical man, of fresh cow's milk or 
goat's milk, and of Swiss condensed milk. 

Cow's milk should at first be mixed with half its bulk of 
8ofb, pure, tepid water, in each pint of which has been sus- 
pended a drachm of ^ sugar of milk ' (which is procurable at 
any chemist's, being used for grinding up powders) and two- 
grains of phosphate of lime finely powdered. If the milk 
has been partially skimmed, as is often the case in cities,, 
then a good tablespoonM of cream should be added ta 
each pint, to make the mixture equal to human. If it has 
not been skimmed, a couple of teaspoonfuls of cream is. 
8ufiB.cient.^ 

The advantage of using goat's milk, is that the animal can 
be brought up to the very nursery, even in cities, and will 
supply nourishment directly to its little master's lips if called 
upon. Children do not seem to dislike the pecuHar taste. 

Swiss milk has been already alluded to in the second 
chapter of the first part (p. 59). No inconvenience has as 
yet been proved to arise from its use, but, at the same time, 
no superiority to fresh cow's milk has been confirmed. As it 
is already sweetened in the preparation, no additional sugar is 

^ In the abore recipe household measurements are used as the nearest 
possible approximation to the following formula : — 

Whole cow*s milk 600 parts, 

Cream 13 „ 

Sugar of milk Id t> 

Phosphate of lime 1^ »> 

Water 339J „ 

1,000 
(Diet, Encyd. des Sciences Med,, art. <Lait,' 1868.) 



INFANCY AND MOTHERHOOD. 135 

required, but care miLst be taken to dilute it sufficiently to 
make it resemble not ordinary milk, but milk and water. 
Laputa never devised anything more preposterous than 
Liebig's food for infants.' It is composed of malt flour, 
wheaten flour, bicarbonate of potass, water, and cow's milk, 
and tbo following is recommended as the simplest mode of 
cooking it I — 

Take of wheaten flour ^ oz. 

Malt flour ^ oz. 

Bicarbonate of potass 7J grs. 

Water ^ oz. 

Mix well, and add of cow*s milk 5 oz. 

Warm the mixture, constantly stirred, over a very slow fire till it gets 
thick. Then remove the vessel from the fire, stir again for five minutes, 
put it back on the fire, take it off as soon as it gets thick, and finally let it 
boil well. Before use, strain through a muslin sieve. 

The object of all this is to convert the starch of the flour 
into dextiine and sugar, and to elaborate a product which after 
all is not nearly so like the natural sustenance as may be made 
with cow's milk, water, and a little additional sugar of milk. 
It is needless to say what a number of unnecessary risks are 
incurred of some one of the numerous articles employed being 
adulterated, of inaccurate measurement, of dirt, and of careless 
preparation by tired servants, who, it will be observed, have 
to keep the fire low for the first part of the process, and then 
to coal it up, making no small smoke, for the final boil. 
Sensible parents will be content to leave the recipe for some 
coming race who may prefer art to nature. 

It is advisable to nourish the in&ut directly from the 
breast ; and where this cannot be done, as soon as possible 
after the milk is drawn. Oar senses tell us of a peculiar aroma 
given off by fresh milk which quickly exhales, and appearances 
seem to warrant the conclusion that this contributes to soothe 
the sensitive nervous system of the suckling, and .so assists 
digestion. 

The best diet for an infant during the first six months, is 



136 DIET IN HEALTH. 

milk alone. It is true, man is a tough animal, and can stand 
with impunity much rough usage, and therefore a vigorous 
baby often seems none the worse for a certain quantity of 
&.rinaceous food ; but the first appearance of flatulence, gripes, 
screaming, ill temper, or other ways infants have of complain- 
ing of dyspepsia, should make the nurse desist from these 
attempts to hurry on natural development. 

It is only when the coming teeth are on their road to the 
front that the parotid glands secrete sufficient saliva to digest 
farinaceous food. When dribbling begins, then is the time to 
begin witji the various preparations of these substances 
bountiftilly supplied by nature and art. Till then, anything 
but milk given to a healthy baby must be tentative, and con- 
sidered in the light of a means of education to its future 
dietary, and must not take the place of milk. 

Among the various means of education, I would select 
as most generally applicable broth or beef tea, at first pure 
and then thickened with a little tapioca or arrow-root. 
Chicken soup, made with a little cream and sugar, senses 
as a change. Baked flour, biscuit powder, and tops and 
bottoms should aU have their turn ; in fact, change is neces- 
sary, or the child is apt to get too fond of its soup, and to 
neglect the really essential nutriment of milk, and to wean 
itself prematurely. 

The consequences of premature weaning are most disastrous, 
but insidious. The child continues to present the external 
aspect of health, its muscles are strong and elastic, but the 
bones do not grow in equal proportion. It is active and 
anxious to walk, but the limbs give way and become dis- 
torted. If it is ill enough to be taken to a medical man, he 
calls the condition * rickets,' but there are crowds of poor 
creatures affected in this way whose parents refuse to see that 
anything is wrong till the malady has gone too far for cure. 
The suspicion that rickets was due to this cause has long been 
prevalent in the profession, but it is to M. Jules Guerin that 
we owe the proof derived from direct experiment. This patho- 



INFANCY AND MOTHERHOOD. 137 

logist found not only that rickety children had almost invari- 
ably been prematurely weaned, but that the disease was 
capable of artificial and intentional induction. He took young 
puppies and young pigs, specimens respectively of carnivorous 
and herbivorous animals, and he produced a rickety softening 
of the bones of each by removing them early from the mother, 
and giving the one set meat and the other set vegetables be- 
fore the natural period. Professor Trousseau has backed the 
deductions of M. Gu6rin with his valuable imprimaimr. 

The time for weaning should be fixed, partly by the 
-almanac, partly by the growth of the teeth. The troubles to 
which children are liable at this crisis are usually gastric, such 
as are induced by hot weather ; so that in summer it should 
be postponed, and in winter hurried forward. The first group 
of teeth nine times out of ten consist of the lower central front 
teeth, which excite no wonder in any but very young parents 
by appearing any time during the sixth and seventh month. 
The mother may then begin to diminish the number of suck- 
ling times ; and by a month she can have reduced them to 
twice a day, so as to be ready when the second group makes 
its way through the upper front gums to cut off the supply 
altogether. The third group, the lateral incisives and first 
grinders, usually after the first anniversary of birth, give 
notice that solid food can be chewed. But I think it is pru- 
dent to let milk, though not mother's milk, form a consider- 
able portion of the diet till the eye-teeth are cut, which seldom 
occurs till the eighteenth or twentieth month. At this period 
even very strong children are liable to diarrhoea, convulsions, 
irritation of the brain, rashes, and febrile catarrhs. In these 
cases the resumption of complete milk diet is advisable, and 
sometimes a child's life has been saved by its reapplication to 
the breast. Now these means are the most readily feasible 
when the patient is accustomed to milk ; indeed if he be not 
vso, the latter expedient is hardly possible. 



CHAPTER II. 

BEGIMEN OF CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 

The diet of cMLdliood requires from its rational guardians as> 
much attention as tliat of infancy. The passions at this age 
overpower the instinct, and reason has not yet asserted its- 
throne. Children shonid have four meals a day, but meat 
only at one, or at most two ; the latter when only a small 
portion at once is allowed. When in health they should have- 
no wine or beer except as a festive treat, no coffee, strongs 
tea, or other exciting drink. Once cooked succulent meat 
without sauces or condiments, eggs, plenty of farinaceous- 
pudding, mealy potatoes, carrots, spinach, French beans, rice>. 
bread, fresh butter, porridge, roast apples, oranges, should 
form the staple of the nursery commissariat. 

As to quantity, we may take the full diets of hospitals as^ 
fairly representing what should be the minimum proper for 
those who are not restricted by fortune in the matter of food, 
and the mean amount upon which a growing child can con- 
tinue to flourish. For it may be observed that while all ex- 
travagance is herein avoided, the food is intended mainly for 
those who are convalescent from acute disease, and have not 
only to remain well, but to recover flesh. 

The following estimates are taken from the published 
tables of diet. The quantities named are those which may be- 
fiiirly put before each child of each article, and by selecting 
the larger quantities we may give a very full allowance. IT 
the smaller amounts of one are eaten, then care should bo 
taken that the AiUer weights of others are chosen. 



140 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



And let it always be understood that food is not to be dis- 
pensed with pedantic accuracy as if it were a pharmaceutical 
prescription. Even in hospitals considerable latitude is allowed, 
and still moi'e in private nurseries should we avoid making 
life a toil by too much interference. It is only in cases of 
prominent and persistent excess in one direction or the other, 
that we should bring our adult reason to bear on infantile 
instinct. 

FtUl Dietaries for Children at various Hospitals. 



Age 


Bread 


Butter 


Milk 


Meat 


Vegetables 


Pudding 


Hospital 


Under 7 


unlimited 


1 oz. 


J pint 


2oz. 


4 oz. 


unlimited 


St. George's 


Under 7 


12 oz. 


? 


i pint 


2oz. 


8oz. 


S twice 
\ a week 


London 

/ Children's 
Hospital, 


Under 8 


5^ oz. 


\ about 
)§oz. 


^ pint 


2 oz. 


4 oz. 


i pint 


J Great Or- 
1 mond Street, 
and Evelina 
V Hospital 


Under 8 


8 oz. 


(about 
]loz. 


? 


2oz. 


4 oz. 





5 Leeds In- 
l firmary 
/ Children's, 
Great Or- 
< mond Street, 
and Evelina 
> Hospital 


A.bove8 


8oz. 


J about 
Jloz. 


I pint* 


(3oz. 
■ broth 
Ipint 


6 oz. 


1 gruel 
i i pint 




























r i pint 


Birmingham 


Under 9 


6 oz. 


? 


1 pint 


2 oz. 


6 oz. 


• gruel or 
broth 


General 
L Hospital 


Under 9 


7 oz. 


} oz. 


1 pint 


4 oz. 


4 oz. 


to order 


iSt.Bartholo- 
\ mew's 


Under 10 


12 oz. 


} oz. 


1 pint 


2oz. 


4 oz. 


6 oz. 


St. Thomas's 


Under 10 


6oz. 


? 


1 J pint 


2 eggs 


? 


8 oz. 


King's College 



Extreme monotony should be avoided. It is a great in- 
convenience to young persons in after life to have been 
brought up in such a narrow round of indubitably whole- 
some victuals that they cannot eat this or that. They should 
especially be guarded against £Etmily whmis; and if the 
parents are conscious of prejudices against any of the ordinary 

* Including what is put in mashod potatoes. 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 141 

foods of mankind, they should educate their descendants to* 
take these as a matter of course. For it is astonishing how 
ingrained some of these acquired idiosyncrasies become, and 
indeed after full manhood they may be concealed but are 
never quite overcome. Yet few of the minor thorns in the- 
rose-bed are so vexatious to oneself and others. I shall not 
soon forget the annoyance of taking a young man to a Green- 
wich dinn^er, and finding that ho never ate anything which 
swam in the waters. Thus occasional abstinence, in the shape 
of no meat or the substitution of fish, and occasional festivities,, 
consisting of food given deliberately because it is nice, are not 
out of place in the nursery. Most kind fathers and mothers 
act on this principle, but they sometimes needlessly let the 
indulgence trouble their conscience. 

The articles of diet should be as good and as clean as can 
be obtained, but no criticism should be permitted to those 
who sit at table. A boy or girl should be ready -to eat any- 
thing which is set before them, and not refuse even badly 
cooked or strange meats; for in roughing it through the 
world, whatever position they are in, the choice often liea 
between that and going without. 

The plan adopted at many schools of working before 
breakfast is not conducive to health. If it is inconvenient for 
the household to prepare the meal immediately the pupils are 
dressed, the most that should be exacted is the repetition of 
some light task prepared overnight ; but better than that is- 
to let them have half an hour's run in the play-ground. 
Violent exertion also of mind or body before and after other 
meals should be discouraged by a suitable arrangement of the 
hours of work and play. Esthetic pursuits, drawing, dancing,, 
singing, may be made so to combine relaxation and amuse- 
ment as to leave the powers of digestion unexhausted, and 
may be practised up to the time of meals. 

To the full development of the digestive organs, muscular 
exertion in the open air is essential, and it is doubly valuable 
when it is of a pleasurable character. Proper exercise alwaya 



142 DIET IN HEALTH. 

involves a rational style of dress ; for ill fitted and nncomfort- 
•able clothing is soon rejected by those who rejoice in the 
natural movement of the limbs. 

It is even more necessary for girls than for boys that a 
-sufficient playground should be attached to places of educa- 
tion, for they cannot be allowed to wander about the country 
like their brothers, and the funereal processions falsely called 
exercise are almost useless. In towns gymnastics or riding 
on horseback may be made substitutes for games ; but the 
money required for these would be much more profitable if 
expended in the rent of a field or lawn. 

For families who are so fortunate as to be near a river op 
lake there is no exercise for girls so good as rowing a light 
oar or sculling. It opens the chest, throws back the shoulders, 
straightens the back, and ensures the shoulder straps of the 
dress not impeding movement, so that the liver and stomach 
gain space to act. 

Many a sculpturesque figure will acknowledge her debt to 
her boat for her beauty; and a few weeks' instruction in 
-swimming at Dieppe or Trouville takes away all sense of 
danger from the amusement. 

Up to the period of puberty the daily use of wine should 
be allowed only during illness and by the express advice of a 
medical man. Its habitual consumption by healthy children 
hastens forward that crisis in their lives, checks growth, and 
•so habituates them to the artificial sensation induced bj 
alcohol that they can scarcely ever leave it off when they 
%vish. This restriction does not exclude occasional festivities, 
•and boys in active exercise seem to digest well a glass of well 
brewed beer at dinner. 

Between puberty and full growth the principal thing we 
have to guaid young people against is overloading the stomach. 
Their meals should be sufficiently frequent to avoid this, other- 
wise the stomach from habitual distension becomes larger than 
is appropriate for the size of the trunk, and there is in afterlife 
a tendency to gastric flatulence. Lads sent to learn a business 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 148 

in the city are often much neglected in the matter of a midday 

meal, and have to make np for it by gorging themselves in the 

-evening. This spoils their breakfast next morning, and they 

really get starved from over-repletion. The best Inncheon a 

growing yonng man can have is a dish of roast potatoes, well 

bnttered and peppered, and a dranght of milk. Or the same 

vegetable with a little bacon or fish may be made into a 

Cornish pastry, which if wrapped np in flannel will keep hot 

for several honrs. In the snmmer boiled beans and bacon, 

or bread and cheese and lettuce with a glass of claret or a 

draught of bitter beer, may take its place. But let the repast 

be confined to one dish, and then they will not eat too much. 

Red meat in the middle of the day is too heating during 

active life, so that if the conventional form of a sandwich is 

the only convenient lunch found practicable, let it be made of 

eggs, or fowl or cold fish, fllavoured with a little salad dressing, 

or the like. 

Youth is the time when gluttonous habits are acquired. 
The commencement of them is easily detected, and they should 
unsparingly be made as disgraceful 'as they really are. Ridi- 
cule is not always a wise engine to employ in education — 
it is too powerful — but against gluttony it may fairly be used. 
Let it not, however, be supposed that excess in gratifying the 
palate is at all a laughing matter. It is a vice just as truly as 
€exual excess is a vice; and there is the less excuse for its 
becoming an habitual vice, in the fact that the temptation to 
acquire it is strongest in youth, and becomes weaker as full 
growth is attained. That it is regarded as a serious vice by 
the highest authority is shown to all time by that wonderful 
history of the civilisation of a specially favoured race pre- 
served in the commonest of books. Kibroth-Hataavah — ' The 
Graves of the Greedy ' — remained for future generations as a 
standing memorial of Heaven's wrath, and of the natural 
punishment of sins against natural law. The worldly Lord 
Chesterfield i& equally explicit in denouncing the vice, when 
writiQg to his son at school, and though his outspoken 



144 DIET IN HEALTH. 

sentences are couched in language too old-fashioned for quo- 
tation, they are well worthy of the attention of both parents 
and children. 

The gorging themselves with pastry and sweetstuff at the 
confectioner's, as practised habitually by school-boys, and 
often by girls when they get a chance, lays the foundation 
not only for indigestion in aft^r years, which is its least evil, 
but also for a habit of indulgence which is a curse through 
life. A schoolmaster who should effectually check this with* 
ont needless restriction of liberty, and make greediness un- 
&shionable among his pupils, I would rank far above the 
most finished scholar in Europe. An important step towards 
it is to give the boys enough to eat at regular meal times. 

Yet are asceticism and hypocrisy to be equally eschewed 
with gluttony. The hearty enjoyment of what is pleasant to 
the taste at proper times is quite consistent with, indeed usually 
goes along with, habitual temperance ; and one of the most 
practical lessons knowledge of the world can teach is that aU 
pleasure is enhanced by self-restraint. 

Young people should not be brought up to the habit of 
tskking physio. As a rule, the British mother is very fond of 
dabbling in doctoring, and apt to try her first experiments on 
her own family. If there is any definite disease discoverable, 
a professional man is called in, but if a child is only weakly, 
or troubled now and then with unimportant ailments, she tries 
this and that which has been recommended by her friends, 
without suspecting the probable truth that the cause of the 
imperfect condition lies in some irrational regimen pursued. 
She cannot make out what is the matter ; surely it would be 
wiser to consult some one who can, or at all events, who 
knows that he cannot, and will not act till he does. The 
consequence of frequent drugging is sometimes real illness, 
generally a debilitated state of the digestion, and almost 
always a disposition to fly to drugs for the immediate relief of 
petty inconveniences, which in reality impedes their cure by 
more far-sighted means. Boys get laughed out of this at 



INFANCY AND YOUTH. 145 

• 

school, but girls are seldom so fortunate, and grow up with 
the idea that something which calls itself physic is a necessity 
of human life. Now, in all the pharmacopoeias there is nob a 
single active article which, joined to its virtues, has not the 
vice of deranging more or less gastric digestion. It is that 
which makes it a medicine and not a food. Assuredly, its 
secondary or final effect in suitable cases, is to restore diges- 
tion, but when taken needlessly, it cannot but be injurious 
even to such a tough animal as a boy. The proper place for 
the family medicine chest is, not the bed-room or the boudoir, 
but the store-room, where there is some little trouble in getting 
at it, and where it should be locked up along with a stomach- 
pump, and other provisions for emergencies to be applied by 
skilM hands. 



147 



CHAPTER III. 

COMKEBGIAL LIFE. 

The continnally increasing numbers who devote themselves to 
commercial pursuits, and the still larger numbers whom they 
influence as dependants as they grow in importance, make the 
habits of the class a matter of serious social consideration. 

The commercial man measures his usefulness in the world 
by his success in rapidly accumulating honest wealth. Honesty, 
therefore, being presupposed, the most conscientious is always 
liable to the temptation of wishing to compress two days' work 
into one, so as to be rich in half the time taken by his neigh- 
bours. To speak of this as a * struggle for life,' is silly ; of 
those who labour hardest in our cities, there are very few who 
would not acknowledge that one tenth of their anxious toil 
would supply the daily needs of themselves and fismiilies. They 
are in reality egged on by ambitious rivalry, which uses for 
its purposes that insatiable hunger for hard work innate in 
the British breast. The haste to be rich is most unwise, and 
not only often defeats its own purpose by prematurely incapa- 
citating the haster from further struggles, but if it is suc- 
cessful, it surely deprives middle life, or at least old age, of its 
occupation. 

A man whose unusual exertions have made him rich 
rapidly, is sure to have been too much engrossed by his 
business to take an interest in other things. He may have 
kept himself, as a duty, acquainted with the pursuits and 

l2 



148 DIET IN HEALTH. 

BTmpatliies of his fellows, bnt he is incapable of making them 
the occupation of his thoughts. He is driven to look to the 
past only for the genuine interest of life. 

Much more often the health suddenly breaks down before 
the desired object is attained, and the power is wanting to 
engage in other pursuits, to take the place of business which 
is perforce given up. The expenditure of strength, in the 
hurry to grasp wealth, has resulted only in weakness and 
poverty. 

It was a piece of shrewd advice administered by an old 
merchant to a ypxmg one—* K you want to die rich, live as 
long as you can.' 

The most important rule for one engaged in any business 
which involves headwork or responsibility to lay down for 
himself is to strictly confine his business to its own times and 
places. Retail shopkeeping of all employments allows the 
greatest number of hours to be occupied in attention to its 
interests ; for, if fairly prosperous, it does not exhaust the 
brain, and yet offers the gentle stimulus of movement and 
conversation. However, the principals of many large concerns 
of this kind are more heavily weighted, and if they want to 
enjoy health must draw a strict line between the hours devoted 
to money-making and those devoted to living, just as much as 
if they were merchants or manufacturers. 

The result of a neglect of this rule, of bringing the counting- 
house into the dining-room and bed-room, is indigestion and 
sleeplessness. 

The principal meals should be breakfast and dinner, 
breakfast before and dinner after the work of the day. But 
a break in the middle for luncheon is very important, indeed is 
imperative for all but exceptional cases. At breakfast and 
dinner, animal food is necessary to a hard worker ; but it is not 
required at luncheon, and often causes heaviness and feverish- 
ness during the afternoon. Any large quantity of fat or 
butter also seems heating, especially if it is cooked, as in 
pastry. Farinaceous food, vegetablqs, fruit, should be the 



COMMERCIAL LIFE. 149 

staple of the midday meal, with only so much of anything else 
as is wanted for a relish, the less the better. 

Many commercial men give up vegetables because they 
find that taken at a mixed meal, along with meat, they canse 
flatulence. If they will separate the two classes of food which 
require the digestive powers of different and somewhat oppo- 
site solvents, the saliva and the gastric juice, if they will take 
vegetables at one meal and meat at another, they will often 
find the difficulty overcome, and full quantities of both digested 
without fermentation. 

The habitual use of stimulants in the middle of the day is 
to be4&eprecated ; nevertheless where an unusual amount of 
cerebral exertion has been gone through, a cheerful glass of 
wine or beer will often prevent over-fatigue — ^let not, however, 
the demand or the supply grow a daily habit. 

The daily use at dinner of a moderate amount of alcohol 
in some form, contributes, I am sure, to the health of brain- 
workers, light perfect wine is the best form, next beer, nexlj 
strong wine and water, last spirituous liquors. 

Commercial work can be done only in the town, and it 
must be confessed that town air and influences are not the 
most favourable to health. On this score many now-a-days 
spend their nights at long distances from their place of busi- 
ness, so that no more time than is absolutely essential should 
be spent at a disadvantage. The success attendant upon this 
plan of residence in the country is closely proportioned to 
the earliness of the time at which business can be left. Unless 
an hour or two can be given to relaxation in the purer air 
before dinner, I do not think the labour of rushing backwards 
and forwards is compensated for. It is pleasant, doubtless, to 
see the junior branches of the family flourishing among green 
fields, but not when the bloom is gained by the exhaustion of 
the bread-winner's strength. Those who can afford it, will 
do better to fix their permanent residence near their work, 
and live temporarily in the country for a few months during 
the long days. 



150 DIET IN HEALTH. 

Besides the reason mentioned above, another may be given 
for the long hours borne by retailers, namely, that their shops 
are better ventilated and lighted than most of even the 
wealthiest merchants' conntiug-honses. To pass from the 
magnificent dwelling of his wife and daughters to the dnll 
stnfiy den of many a prince of commerce, recalls the image of 
Samson grinding in the dark through the treason of his 
money-loving spouse. Things were not so bad when the 
family lived over the offices, and a sofbening female influence 
civilised the whole house. But now work and life seem to be 
seeking a divorce from one another, and the place of business 
is growing more and more gruesome, and, like another ill- 
omened locality, is not to be alluded to in polite society. A 
ladies' mission for the improvement' of these dwellings is 
urgently called for. Unlike other missions, it could dispense 
with promoters, secretaries, speeches, committees, subscriptions, 
and collectors. Or rather, all these agencies united could 
embark in the family conveyance, or even in a one-horse fly, 
and begin operations at once with a builder and decorator as 
assessor. The scale of expenditure should be proportioned to 
that of the other home ; it will probably add very little to the 
yearly biQs, nothing in comparison to silk gowns and spring 
bonnets. 

The healthiest exercise for a commercial man is riding, 
when it is possible. It diverts the thoughts, especially if the 
nag be skittish, prevents the stagnation of the abdominal 
blood-vessels, and promotes a due flow of bile. But the out- 
side of an omnibus is better than nothing at all, and is within 
the means of every one. Much walking is usually found too 
fatiguing, and if adopted as a duty, is apt to be monotonous. 
Boating and cricket are suitable for the younger members of 
the commercial world, but they occupy more time than can 
often be spared, and have to be kept for holidays. The more 
violent athletic sports are open to still more objection, and if 
it is attempted to pursue them at the same time that the 
thoughts are occupied in business, they exhaust the vital 
powers, and weakness is the result. 



151 



CHAPTER IV. 

LIIEBABT AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE. 

That dogmatic expression of Biichner's, * No tliinkiiig without 
phosphorus/ * has gained an unhappy notoriety. Strictly 
taken it is a groundless assumption, for it is impossible for us 
to have any evidence that intellectual being may not exist 
joined to any form of matter, or quite independent of matter 
at all. We certainly do not know enough of the subject to 
lay down a negative statement. And if it be held to mean 
that the amount of phosphorus passing through the nervous 
system bears a proportion to the intensity of thought, it is 
simply a mis-statement. A captive lion, tiger, or leopard, or 
hare, who can have wonderfoUy little to think about, assimi- 
lates and parts with a greater quantity of phosphorus than a 
professor of chemistry working hard in his laboratory ; while 
a beaver, who always seems to be contriving something, 
excretes so little phosphorus, at least in his urine, that chemical 
analysis cannot detect it.^ All that the physiologist is justified 
in stating is that for the mind to energise in a living body, 
that body must be kept living up to a certain standard, and 
that for this continuous renewal of life a supply of phosphatic 
salts is required. The same may be said with equal justice of 
water, fiat, nitrogen, chloride of sodium, oxygen, &c. The 
phosphates are wanted indeed, but wanted by pinches, whilst 
water mu^t be pouring in by pailfuls. One might go on 

* Ohne Phosphor kein Gedanke, Kraft und Stofl^ eect. 122. 
' See the analyses of the several kinds of urine in Simon's Chemistry, 
vol. ii. pp. 144, 342, and 350. 



152 DIET IN HEALTH. 

thinking for weeks without phosphates, bnt without water a 
few days, and without oxygen a few minutes, would terminate 
the train of self -consciousness. The practical points taught us 
by physiology are that for the integrity of thought the integrity 
of the nervous system is requisite ; and for the integrity of the 
nervous system a due quantity of such food as contains diges- 
tible phosphatic salts. 

For the intellectual direction of the nervous system it is at 
the same time essential that it should not be oppressed by 
physical and mechanical difficulties. The presence in the 
stomach or blood of imperfectly assimilated nutriment impedes 
its functions in close proportion to their amount ; so that not 
only the chemical constituents but the mode of administering 
food must come into the calculation. 

The most perfect regimen for the healthy exercise of thought 
ia such as would be advised for a growing boy, frequent small 
supplies of easily soluble mixed food, so as to supply the 
greatest quantity of nutriment without overloading the stomach 
or running the risk of generating morbid half-assimilated pro- 
ducts. 

The physiology of the action of alcohol has a very practical 
bearing on the physical regimen of the mental functions. 
Alcohol has the power of curbing, arresting, and suspending 
all the phenomena connected with the nervous system. We 
feel its influence on our thoughts as soon as on any other part 
of the man. Sometimes it brings them more completely under 
our command, controls and steadies them ; sometimes it con- 
fuses or disconnects them ; then breaks off our power and the 
action of the senses altogether. The first effect is desirable, 
the others to be avoided. When a man has tired himself with 
intellectual exertion, a moderate quantity of alcohol taken with 
food acts as an anaesthetic, stays the wear of the system which 
is going on, and allows the nervous force to be diverted to the 
due digestion of the meal. But it must be followed by rest 
from mental labour, and is in fact a part of the same regimen 
which enforces rest — it is an artificial rest. To continue to 



LITEEABY LIFE. 153 

labour and at the same time to take the azuosthetic is an in- 
conHistencj. It merely blants the painful feeling of weariness, 
and prevents It from acting as a warning. I very much doubt 
the quickening or brightening of the wits which bacchanalian 
poets have conventionally attributed to alcohol. An abstainer 
in a party of even moderate topers finds their jokes dull and 
their anecdotes pointless, and his principal amusement consists 
in his observation of their curious bluntness to the absurdity 
of their merriment. 

There is no more fatal habit to a literary man than that of 
using alcohol as a stimulant between meals. The vital powers 
go on getting worn out more and more without their cry for 
help being perceived, and in the end break down suddenly and 
often irrevocably. The temptation is greater perhaps to a 
literary man than to any other in the same social position, 
especially if he has been induced by avarice or ambition to 
work wastefqjly against time ; and if he cannot resist it he 
had better abjure the use of alcohol altogether. 

As to quantity, the appetite for solid food is the best guide. 
If a better dinner or supper is eaten for a certain amount of 
fermented liquor accompanying it, that is the amount most 
suitable. If a worse, then it maybe concluded that an excess 
is committed, however small the cup may be. 

Although nothing can take the place of alcohol in this 
article of diet, yet fermented drinks are not suited to the 
nervous system at all in proportion to their alcoholic contents. 
The fruity ethers and aromas evolved in the process of fer- 
mentation, and which do not seem capable of existing in a 
digestible form without alcohol, are even more powerful in 
rejiairing the waste of the nerve power. Burgundy has 
acquired a special fame as food for the brain, and claret runs 
it hard, while good, sound, unadulterated beer is a homely 
creature little inferior to them. All of these are superior to 
sherry and port, and to spirits, for reasons given in a former 
chapter of this volume on the choice of food. 

Mental activity certainly renders the brain less capable of 



154 DIET IN HEALTH. 

bearing an amoont of alcohol whicli in seasons of rest and 
relaxation does not injarionsly affect it. When any extra- 
ordinary toil is temporarily imposed, extreme temperance or 
even total abstinence should be the rule. Much to the point 
is the experience of Byron's Sardanapalus : — 

' The goblet I reserve for hours of ease, 
I war on water/ 

The posture of the body usually adopted by literary and 
many professional persons engaged in writing is a matter 
worth consideration. Chamber counsel are notoriously sub- 
ject to piles and venous congestion of the rectum ; women 
who sit much with their work in front of them get also con- 
gestion and irregularity of the uterine organs ; cold feet from 
sluggish arterial circulation are frequently complained of by 
otherwise hearty sedentary workers. The ill health which 
these symptoms indicate may often be prevented by the use 
of a high desk at which the work may be done standing for a 
time now and then ; and a farther change of posture may be 
obtained by an easy chair which will allow of thinking with 
the body thrown back and by occasional walks about the room. 

Athletic sports are scarcely consistent with steady, hard 
brain work. Probably only the most muscular try to persist 
in them, and they acknowledge that their intellects are 
readiest and strongest when they are taking quite moderate 
exercise, and not when their muscles are corky and their 
limbs light. There is a peculiar state of health into which 
those are apt to fall who, having for a long period kept 
themselves in training for boat-racing or other muscular 
exertion, afterwards adopt a life which involves mental 
labour and responsibility, even though they get a fair amount 
of bodily relaxation. The leading symptoms are emaciation, 
weariness, depression of spirits, and an unnaturally high 
specific gravity in the urine, which is, however, abundant and 
fall-coloured, thus showing an excess of destructive assimila- 
tion which cannot but be very injurious. 



LITEEARY LIFE. 155 

Fresh air and relaxation of mind are of more importance 
than exercise, which last is indeed mainly valuable as securing 
them. The limits of weariness should not be transgressed. 
The attempt to compensate for excessive literary toil by 
excessive bodily toil is based on a false conception of the rela- 
tions o^ matter and spirit, worthier of an ancient Gnostic 
than of a modem philosopher, which has more than once led 
to fatal results. I had for some years as a patient a literary 
lady who wrote much and well in magazines. She would go 
straight from her study to her garden and glebe, dig furiously 
and mow with a scythe, despising or rather luxuriating in 
fatigue. Gradually paralysis came on, showing itself first as 

* writer's cramp,' and then creeping over the whole body. 
The mind and senses were as perfect as ever, and so long as 
she was able to move the tongue she dictated lively monthly 
articles, and at last died apparently of sorrow at being unable 
to communicate her thoughts. 

Tobacco should not be indulged in during working hours. 
Whatever physiological effect it has is sedative, and so 
obstructs mental operations. But as a relaxation afterwards 
it is in moderation beneficial. As a calmative before retiring 
to rest it has the sanction of a vigorous brain labourer, John 
Milton, whose supper, we are told, consisted of bread, water, 
olives, and a pipe of tobacco. There is a flavour about the 
fare of the happy days he had passed with an elegant literary 
circle in Italy. 

The daily habits of Robert Southey, a man who more 
than any other made literature a healthy profession and a 
successful profession, are thus described by his son in his 

* Life,' vol. iii. 2 and vi. 6 : — * Breakfast was at nine, after a 
little reading, dinner at four, tea at six, supper at half-past 
nine, and the intervals filled up with reading or writing; 
except that he regularly walked between two and four, and 
took a short sleep before tea, the outline of his day when he 
was in full work will have been given. After supper, when 
the business of the day seemed to be over, though he generally 



156 DIET IN HEALTH. 

took a book, he remaiDed with his family, and was open to 
enter into conversation, to amuse and to be amused.' 

* My actions,* he writes about this time to a friend, * are 
aa regular as those of St. Dunstan's quarter-boys. Three 
pages of history after breakfast (equivalent to five in small 
quarto printing) ; then to transcribe and copy for the press, 
or to make my selections and biographies, or what else suits 
my humour, till dinner time ; from dinner till tea I read, 
write letters, see the newspaper, and very often indulge in a 
siesta ; — for sleep agrees with me, and I have a good sub- 
stantial theory to prove that it must ; for if a man who walks 
much requires to sit down and rest himself, so does the brain, 
if it be the part most worked, require its repose. Well, after 
tea I go to poetry, and correct and re- write and copy till I am 
tired, and then turn to anything else till supper ; and this is 
my life — which, if it be not a merry one, is yet as happy as 
heart could wish.' 

And a very rational mode of living it was, deserving of its 
reward. The country air and quiet among the lakes and 
mountains, the association with kindred and loving spirits, 
the old-fashioned dinner-hour excluding uncongenial society, 
the regular exercise, and the sound night's rest, with temper- 
ance, soberness, and chastity, preserved his mental powers 
fresh and vigorous in old age, to leave to future generations 
undying memorials of sympathy with all that is best in 
humanity. 

Milton describes himself as * with useful and generous 
labours preserving the body's health and hardiness, to render 
lightsome, clear, and not lumpish obedience to the mind, to 
the cause of religion and our country's liberty, when it shall 
require firm hearts in sound bodies to stand and cover their 
stations.' 

His blindness probably interfered with the activity of his 
muscular discipline in later years, for he was a martyr to gout 
towards the end of his life. 

Samuel Johnson is another type of the literary man pure 



LITEBARY UFE. 157 

and simple. Scrofaloiis, awkward, hypoclioiidriacal, and 
corpulent, he was averse naturally to bodily exertion, yet he 
walked a good deal, and worked steadily and patiently without 
bursts of industry or idleness. Passionately fond of company 
and of eating and drinking, he restrained himself, and indulged 
only when the labour of the day was over. His knowledge of 
physiology and medicine kept him firom quackery, and .his 
medical advisers were the most rational physicians of the day. 
After middle life, his own observation of his health led him to 
abstain entirely from wine ; I have heard my grandmother 
describe the air of dignified patience with which he passed 
the bottle which she often pressed upon him at her &.ther's 
table. He sat up late at night indeed, yet that was not for 
work, but to rest the mind with sportive and varied conversa- 
tion. He had his reward in the retention of his mind, even 
when its material organ had broken down. 

Shelley was a vegetarian, and, perhaps, his peculiar way 
of living, combined with the fjEWjt of not writing for a livelihood 
or to please others, estranged his sympathies from human 
kind. But at all events, his temperance did not weaken his 
exuberance of thought and diction. What would have hap- 
pened had he consumed more phosphorus, it is impossible to 
say ; but he could hardly have been a more rapid composer or 
stronger wielder of words. 

Walter Scott passed a genial sociable existence, took much 
exercise, dissuaded his younger friends from substituting gig- 
driving for riding, and always insisted on having seven or 
eight hours of utter unconsciousness in bed. Had he passed 
his whole life in his study, he would have written probably 
worse and certainly less, for he would have had a shorter life 
to write in. 

It is true that Byron assumes in his poetry the character 
of a dehauche, and says he wrote *Don Juan' under the 
inspiration of gin and water. But much of that sort of talk 
is merely for stage effect, and we see how industrious he was, 
and read of his training vigorously to reduce corpulence, and 



158 DIET IN HEALTH. 

of his bein^ sach an exceptional! j experienced swimmer as to 
rival Leander in crossing the Hellespont. 

It is especially when the mind of genius is overshadowed 
by the dark clond of threatened insanity, of hypochondriasis, 
or of hysteria, that a rational regimen preserves it to the glory 
of Gk)d and the advantage of man. Nothing but daily exer- 
cise, temperate meals, and a punctual observance of regular 
hoars of study and rest, could have kept burning the flickering 
candle of reason in poor suicidal Cowper. Most rarely and 
faintly do his writings exhibit a trace of the gloom which 
made life to him, as he described it in his last words, * un- 
utterable misery.' 

On the other hand, the keen poison of his own genius slew 
in youth Kirke White, when he surrendered himself to its 
•xclusive cultivation : — 

That oagle's fate and his were one, 
Who on the shaft that made him die 

Beheld a feather of his own, 

Wherewith he wont to soar so high. 

The elegant appreciator of nature, the author of * The Seasons ' 
faded away from lazy and self-indulgent habits. The great 
all-loving soul of Bums produced so little because it was 
drenched in drink and idleness, not excessive indeed, but 
gnJQ&cient to ruin his usefulness. 

Apropos of this last matter, we may give to some people the 
same caution which Swift administers in a letter to Pope : ' The 
least transgression of yours, if it be only two bits and a sup 
more than your stint, is a great debauch, for which you will 
certainly pay more than those sots who are carried dead drunk 
to bed.' The machinery of sensitive souls is as delicate as it is 
valuable, and cannot bear the rough usage which coarse customs 
inflict upon it. It is broken to pieces by blows which common 
natures laugh at. The literary man, with his highly cultivated, 
tightly strung sensations, is often more sosceptible of the 
noxious and less susceptible of the beneficial results of alcohol 



LITERARY LIFE. 159 

and other indulgences than others. His mind is easier to 
cloud, and there is a deeper responsibility in clouding it. 

Equally when we descend into the lower regions of 
Parnassas, the abodes of talent and cleverness and the 
supply of periodical literary requirements, we find the due 
care of the body absolutely essential to the continued useful- 
ness of the intellect. The first things to which one entering 
the profession of literature must make up his mind, are to be 
respectable and healthy. 

What noble fragments one finds in Savage and in Poe ! 
and how sad to know that they are fragments instead of 
stately structures, solely because the builders had not the 
wisdom to live regular lives ! 



r 



161 



CHAPTER V. 

NOXIOUS TRADES. 

The digestive organs are liable to suffer from the position 
assumed at work by certain handicraftsmen, and the dis- 
comfort hence arising leads to the adoption of an unwholesome 
dietary which in the end intensifies the evil. 

Shoemakers contract a peculiar sort of gastralgia, partly 
from the pressure of the last against the epigastrium, and 
partly from the constriction of the abdominal viscera, es- 
pecially the stomach, by leaning so far forward to work. The 
use of the upright bench, in which the last is held firm by a 
stirrup, and an erect posture always preserved, is the best 
remedy for the evil, and the thanks of the country are due to 
Mr. Sparkes Hall for his advocacy of this method of getting 
over a difficulty as old as the Pharaohs at least. 

Against the constipation and hsBmorrhoids which the same 
posture induces the best preservative is the free use of fresh 
butter, a cold tub every morning, and an occasional dandelion 
pill. 

The discomfort which they cause in a sensitive condition 
of the stomach causes vegetables to be avoided by many shoe- 
makers. They can hardly bear to take sufficient to sustain 
health. So long as this is the case, they should eat as many 
oranges and lemons as they can, or in default of them, fresh 
rhubarb, and try the plan proposed before of eating vegetables 
only at one meal and meat alone at another. A small quantity 
of watercresses is also a great resource. 



162 DIET IN HEALTH. 

The same observations apply with nearly eqnal force to 
tailors, but unfortunately they have not the refuge of the 
upright bench to fly to, and to a certain extent also to sewing- 
machine workers, in whose case I would suggest that a simple 
contrivance by which the legs of the instrument could be 
shortened or lengthened would enable the changes of posture 
necessary to health to be made. 

However, it is indubitable that a great deal of the ill- 
health of all classes of artisans arises from the closeness of 
their work-rooms, and a more philanthropic deed cannot be 
done for a deserving class than the bringing under the notice 
of the district health-officers instances of the violation of the 
law by masters. 

Gardeners ofben are afflicted with water-brash, arising in 
a measure from the stooping posture deranging the viscera 
which receive the food, especially the lower end of the gullet. 
But I think that an additional cause is frequently the bad 
cooking of the vegetables they eat. Half-boiled potatoes and 
cabbage are as injurious as ill-prepared oatmeal is found 
among populations which are nourished on that diet. 

The poisoning to which those who work in lead are exposed 
by their occupation may be almost always prevented by 
scrupulous cleanliness in taking food. There is abundant 
proof that the metal enters the system through the stomach, 
and there* is but doubtful evidence of its entering by any other 
path. From dirty hands it gets into the bread, from dusty 
clothes it besprinkles the meat and drink, and thus acts as 
quickly and surely as if it had been brought in by the more 
usual way of the drinking waier. It is the* most certain and 
noxious if by any peculiarity in the manufacture it is converted 
into a chloride salt, but the form which we generally meet with 
is the white carbonate, insoluble indeed in water, but un- 
fortunately soluble in the fluids of the digestive canal, 
saturated as they are with carbonic acid. In the case of 
paintera who employ white lead, it is quickly deprived of some 
of its noidousness by mixture with oil, for ia that condition it 



NOXIOUS TRADES. 163 

can only get into the food from tlie hands. But where the 
finely powdered or precipitated Kremnitz lead is employed, as 
for example in the mannfacture of polished cards, the clothes 
become saturated with the dust and convey it to the victuals. 
Not only should the hands be washed, the hair brushed, and 
the outer garment shifted, before meals, but the men should 
not be allowed to bring their food within the poison-laden 
atmosphere of the workshops. 

Plumbers are said to inhale lead in the fumes which arise 
in the process of casting, and 'brass-founders' ague* also 
appears from the researches of Dr. Greenhow to be caused by 
the fumes of solder, consisting mainly of oxide of zinc, being 
drawn into the lungs. But it must be remembered that in 
both these handicrafts a great deal of dirt adheres to the skin 
and clothes and may thus pass iifto the food. I have never 
seen clean men affected. 

Some handicrafts are noxious from the high temperature 
at which they are obliged to be carried on. In these cases, 
the frequent and free use of cold drinking water is sanctioned 
by experience as the best preservative of health ; the copious 
evaporation from the skin keeping down the heat of the blood. 
And the most cruel enemy to health is alcohol, which induces 
degeneration of the liver, heart, or kidneys, or all these at 
once, and prevents at any rate the due exercise of the lungs' 
functions, even if it does not directly disorganise that tissue. 
My own impression is that the emphysema and black deposit 
so often found in the lungs of artisans exposed to great heat 
is in no small measure due to alcohol and to the neglect of its 
antagonist water. 

For example, the consolidation and subsequent breaking 
down of the lung peculiar to dry grinders is seldom if ever 
found in temperate men ; a healthy mucous membrane has the 
power of rejecting the forei^ particles of metal which adhere 
to it when congested and degenerated. 

Golb'ers, who labour in the dark in a confined hot atmo- 
sphere deficient in oxygen, suffer frt)m bloodlessness and 

M 2 



164 DIET IN HEALTH. 

indigestion. The bonesetters, the popular practitioners among 
this class, describe it as ' a little bone broke ' in the stomach, 
pmnmel the abdonien and make the patient give np work and 
drink for a season with snccessM result. Philanthropic coal- 
owners should arrange the shifts so that a man may be put in 
turn on to night work and have his share of sunlight. And 
it is better for the men not to eat in the pits, but to make 
their principal meals when off work. The diet of colliers is 
generally too nitrogenous for a life of daily muscular labour. 

Tea-tasters sometimes suffer from a special kind of nervous 
affection. The hand gets tremulous, there is sleeplessness, 
head-ache, anasmia, indigestion, with a flabby tongue covered 
with a smooth yellow coat. To avoid this, they should live 
well, and always take some food before exercising their office. 
Smelling the tea seems to be more injurious, and really less 
decisive, than sipping the infusion. 

Evils consequent on other trades are not mentioned here, 
either because they are unconnected with diet, and not to be 
avoided by any special arrangement of diet, or else resolve 
themselves simply into temptations to intemperance. 



165 



CHAPTER VI. 

ATHLETIC TRAINING. 

Abe tlie dramatist and the novelist drawing from natm'e wlien 
they present us a picture of a well- bom and well-bred athlete, 
stupid, immoral, selfish, case-hardened by his brute strength 
against the finer emotions of pity and honour, *and blind to 
intellectual pleasures ? If the original exists, he is happily 
very rare. He is certainly not conspicuous in the list of 
294 rowers in University races collected by Dr. Morgan, which 
on the other hand is adorned with bishops, poets, public school 
masters, leading barristers, devoted clergymen, elegant 
orators, scientific chemists, philanthropists, and other orna- 
ments of the human race.^ Eminent muscular ability evidently 
is not inconsistent with a superiority to the average in other 
respects, and the improvement of the body does not prevent 
the improvement of the mind. 

A charge more serious, because more troublesome to answer 
against athletics, is that they lay a foundation for disease in 
after years, and thus shorten life. Likely enough the specta- 
tors know that the dropping down dead on the stage of an 
athlete, apparently in the height of healthy vigour, is a gross 
misrepresentation of nature. But yet the scene rankles in 
their memories, and they can with difficulty divefit themselves 
of the feeling that the exuberant energy of a man in training 
wears out the vital forces, and is repaid by weakness which 
will cut short the days. We may know that the impression 

* Unwerdty OarSt by John E. Morgaiii M.D. 



166 DIRT IN HEALTH. 

exiflts by the freqnency with which the friends of patients 
assign athletics as the canse of all sorts of diseases withont 
any other reason than that the failure in health was first 
made manifest during some bodily exertion. Of course it is 
during bodily exertion that the discovery is made : no one 
finds out that his legs are weak till he tries to walk, or that 
his lungs or heart are injured till his wind fails him at a pinch. 
But that a man previously in good health injures his constitu- 
tion by training, so as to be more liable than ordinary persons 
to any peculiar class of disease or degeneration, is negatived 
by the laborious investigations of Dr. Morgan. He has 
followed up with personal enquiries the 294 * university oars ' 
mentioned above, and he finds, as was to be expected, that 
since 1829, when his list begins, some have died, some have 
been killed, some have fallen into ill health, but 288 survive 
to describe themselves as hearty and strong. Of the deaths 
(39 in all) 11 were from fevers, 7 firom consumption, 6 from 
accidents, 3 from heart disease, and lesser numbers from other 
special causes. Now it is heart disease which especially is 
attributed to athletic sports, and it is a surprise to find 
statistics showing that their patrons have sufiered from it 
rather less than the rest of the population, and much less than 
the sailors whom we are so solicitous to keep in good health.^ 
Deaths from fevers certainly cannot be considered as evidence 
of an injured constitution ; indeed Dr. Ghraves of Dublin (a high 
authority in this matter) remarks, and the experience of most 
of us will bear him out, that when zymotic diseases attack 
strong men the risk is greater than is run by weaker frames. 
The end of 2 by drowning, and 3 by gun-shot wounds, show the 
possession of energy and unselfish courage, seldom the cha- 
racteristics of a broken invalid. The cases of the 17 who 
do not furnish a good account of their health are mostly 

' Mortality from heart disease in Registrar-Gen. JReports for 10 years, 
8 per cent.; in navy (1868), 13 per cent.; among university oars, 6^ per 
cent. — University Oars, p. 28. 



ATHLETIC TRAINING. 167 

somewhat vague. Among so many, several must have 
hereditary tendencies to disease ; others say their medical 
attendants trace no connection between their complaints and 
previous muscular exertion, and in such a long period as forty 
years innumerable evil influences must have been in action ; 
while in some families it seems traditional always to speak of 
their health as only moderate, and in others to look back upon 
the exuberances of their youth as follies. So that 17 is in 
fact a small number to be occasionally falling into the hands 
of the physician. 

The best test of the value of anything is to reduce it to 
Arabic numerals, and pounds, shillings, and pence, as in- 
surance offices act by our constitutions. Dr. Morgan has 
applied this test to the 294 cases under consideration. Ac- 
cording to Dr. Farr*s Life Tables the expectation of life at 
20, the average age of university oarsmen, is 40 years. But 
the survivors have still an expectation of life of 14 years 
before them, and this must be added on while a calculated 
allowance must be made for those who have died, and an 
estimate also deducted for the 17 lives who reckon themselves 
damaged. The whole calculation is too long to be gone into 
here, but the result is decidedly favourable ; for, taking the 
experience as it stands, the expectation of life of each in- 
dividual comes out, not 40, but 42 years. So that any insur- 
ance office which had taken them all at ordinary rates would 
be making a handsome profit and exhibit a good prospective 
balance sheet. 

The conclusion is inevitable that for young men in good 
health very severe athletic training strengthens the constitu- 
tion and lengthens life. 

It will of course strike every one that our example here 
is taken from a specially select class of humanity. True, t.ho 
fame of the University would not be entrusted to one likely 
to break down and disappoint his colleagues. And herein lies 
a great advantage possessed by boat-racing above other 
athletic sports, namely, that it is to the interest of all con- 






168 DIET IN HEALTH. 

cemed to exclade from the practice those who are likely to be 
injured by it. For that some are likely to be iujnred ia 
never denied ; and it probably would be wise if the crews, 
instead of acting solely on their own responsibility, were to 
insist on all who joined them having their fitness to undergo 
training tested by a medical man. Mr. Maclaren says he 
would not allow any one to pull in a college boat whose chest 
measured less than 36 inches, but it is evident that such an 
absolute rule must be fallacious, for the circumference of the 
chest must bear in a well-built man a proportion to the height. 
The better test is the vital capacity or aerial contents of the 
lungs, which Dr. Hutchinson's spirometer and tables enable 
us to measure so accurately. 

Other forms of athletics have not the same safeguard. 
But still the good sense and good feeling of Englishmen is 
such, that a man very quickly finds out, or is told by his 
comrades, if anything renders the ambition of distinction in 
bodily exercise unsuitable for him. Where there is any 
suspicion of this being the case, parental authority may 
fairly be interposed, and the matter settled in a single medical 
examination. 

It is not necessary that every one who trains should aim 
at being, or even wish to be, a distinguished athlete. There 
are modified forms or rather degrees of the same process, 
which cannot be trusted indeed to produce the extraordi- 
nary development of nerve force needful for successful boat- 
racing and the like, but which nevertheless bring the body 
into a state of high health very conducive to comfort and 
Tisefulness. 

The reading or other intellectual pursuits during training 
should be very moderate and (so to speak) mechanical. Hard 
head-work should not be carried on at the same time as hard 
training. It should be gradually given up at the beginning 
and resumed gradually after the training has been gone 
through. But there is no reason why the systematic cultiva- 
tion of the mind and body should not alternate to their joint 



ATHLETIC TEAINING. 169 

advantage, and indeed it evidently has done so in the case 
of many of Dr. Morgan's heroes, whose names make a con- 
spicuous appearance in the class lists of classical and mathe- 
matical honours.^ 

The usual time allotted to training is six weeks. The 
objects to be attained in this period may be described as : — 

1. The removal of superfluous fat and water. 

2. The increase of contractile power in the muscles. 

3. Increased endurance. 

4. * Wind,' that is, a power of breathing and circulating 

the blood steadily in spite of exertion. 

The first object is aimed at by considerably adding to the 
daily amount of nitrogenous, and diminishing farinaceous and 
liquid food, and providing that it should be so consumed as to 
be fully digested. The second and third are secured by 
gradually increasing the demands made upon the muscles till 
they have learnt to exert at will all the powers of which they 
are capable, and for as long a period as the natural structure 
of the individual permits. Wind is improved by choosing as 
part of the training an exercise, such as running, which can 
be sustained only when the respiratory and circulating organs 
do their duty fSairly. 

The muscles of the limbs become under a regimen of this 
kind more * corky ' or elastic, and more prominent when * put 
up ' in a state of contraction. They improve in quahty and 
efficiency, but that they become larger is extremely proble- 
matical. Hypertrophied organs are well known to lose their 
shape and power ; an enlarged heart, instead of circulating 
blood better, is an encumbrance ; the muscles of the hollow 
viscera, when augmented in thickness, do not expel their con- 
tents freely ; an hypertrophied finger, instead of being stronger 
than the rest, is weaker ; and all these are extremely liable to 
degenerate prematurely and lose their vitality. So that if the 

* The 294 include, at Oxford 6 firsts and 11 seconds in classics, 1 first 
and 2 seconds in mathematics, at Cambridge 10 firsts and 5 seconds in 
classics, 8 wranglers and 21 senior optimes in mathematics. 



170 DIET IN HEALTH. 

muscles did by training grow bigger, as reckoned in a state of 
repose, it were a resolt not at all to be desired. 

Tbe skin becomes soft and smooth, and apparently more 
translucent, so that the red bloom of youth shines through it 
more brilliantly. The insensible perspiration is regular and 
even ; while at the same time sweating is not so readily 
induced by bodily exertion, and it is never cold and sudden, 
even with mental excitement. 

Superfluous fat is removed from all parts of the person, as 
is evinced by loss of weight. This requires to be carefully 
tested by the scales from time to time ; for if the reduction be 
carried beyond a certain point, which varies in different men, a 
loss of power and of endurance is felt, and probably future evil 
results may arise. This point is technically called the * fight- 
ing weight,' but the observation of it need not be confined to 
the pugilistic trade. 

Training increases wonderfully the vital capacity of the 
chest, so that a much greater quantity of air can be blown in 
and out of the lungs and with greater force than previously. 
And this vital capacity endures longer than any other of the 
improvements, for I have found in examination for insurance 
several clients, formerly in training, but who had laid aside 
violent exercise for some years, still retaining that mark of 
vigour to a considerable extent above the average. It is 
evidence of the permanent elasticity of the pulmonary tissue, 
an eflacient protection against asthma, emphysema, and other 
degenerations of the organ of breathing. 

Indigestion, acidity of stomach, sleeplessness, weariness 
of life, nervous indecision, dyspeptic palpitations, and irregu- 
larity of the bowels disappear under training. But if they 
exist, the regimen should be entered upon with more than 
usual caution and under medical advice. 

The following were the systems pursued at the Universities 
in 1866 as given by Mr. Maclaren in the Appendix to his 
' Training in Theory and Practice,' and I believe still carried 
on for boating-men. 



ATHLETIC TRAININa. 



171 



THE OXFORD SYSTEM. 

Stmimer Races. 



A Day's TBAmiNO. 



Else about 7 a.h. 



Exercise . 
Breakfast, 8.30 



Exercise . 



Supper, 8.30 or 9 



Bed about 10 



Exercise (forenoon) . 
Dinner, 2 p.m. . 



A short walk or run 
Meat, beef or mutton . 
Bread, or toast dry 

J. ea • • . . 

None 

Meat, much the same as 

for breakfast . 
Bread .... 

Vegetables (none al- 
lowed) 

Beer, 1 pint 

About 5 o'clock, start 
for the river, and row 
twice over the course,* 
* the speed increasing 
with the strength of 
the crew* 

Meat, cold 

Bread ; perhaps a jelly 
or watercresses 

Beer, 1 pint 



So as to be in chapel, 
but early rising not 
compulsory. 

Not compulsory. 

Underdone. 

The crust only recom- 
mended. 

As little as possible 
recommended. 



Crust only recom- 
mended. 

A rule, however, not 
always adhered to. 



Sleep 
Exercise 
Diet . 



Summary, 

About nine hours. 

Walking and rowing about one hour. 

Very limited. 



' The length of the course is nearly a mile and one-eighth. 



172 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



Winter Races, 



A Dat*8 Tbainino. 



Bise about 7.30 A-X. 




Early rising not com- 
pulsory. 


Exercise . • • 




Not compulsory. 


BiDakfast, 


As for summer races . 




Exercise (forenoon) . 


None .... 




Luncheon about 1 p.il 


Bread or a sandwich . 
Beer, half a pint . 


• 


Exercise . 


About 2 o'clock start for 
the river, and row 






twice oyer the course 


Crews are taken over 
the long course to 
Nuneham, perhaps 
twice during their 


Dinner at 5, in Hall . 


Meat as for summer 


practice. 




races 


% 




Bread .... 






Vegetables as for sum- 






mer races 






Pudding (rice), a jelly . 






Beer, half a pint . 




Bed 10.30 







N3. — It is particularly impressed on men in training that as little 
liquid as possible is to be drunk, water being strictly forbidden. 



Sleep 
Exorcise . 
Diet 



:} 



Summary, 



As for summer races. 



Nearly the same as for summer races ; luncheon 
being about equiyalont to supper. 



ATHLETIC TRAININa. 



173 



THE CAMiBRIDGB SYSTEM. 
Summer Baces. 



A Day's TRAnoNa. 



Eise at 7 a.m. 
Exercise . 



Breakfast, 8.30 



Exercise (forenoon) . 
Dinner about 2 p.m. . 



Exercise . 



• * 



Supper about 8.30 or 9 



Bed at 10. 



Run 100 or 200 yards 
* as fast as possible ' . 



Meat, beef or mutton . 

Toast dry. 

Tea, two cups, or to- 
wards the end of 
training a cup and a 
half only. Water- 
cresses occasionally. 

None. 

Meat, beef or mutton. 

Bread. 

Vegetables, potatoes, 
greens 

" eer, 1 pint. 
essert. — Oranges or 
biscuits, or figs ; wine 
two glasses. 

About 5.30 start for the 
river, and row to the 
starting-post and back. 

Meat, cold. 

Bread. 

Vegetables — lettuce or 
watercresses. 

Beer, 1 pint. 



*The old system of 
running a mile or 
so before breakfast 
is fast going out, 
except in the case 
of men who want 
to get a good deal 
of flesh off. 

Underdone. 



Some colleges have 
baked apples, or 
jellies, or rice- 
puddings. 



Summary, 

Sleep Niue hoars. 

Exercise About an hour and a quarter.* 

Diet Limited. , 

N.B. — On Sundays men generally take a long walk of five or six miles. 

* The course is a trifle longer than at Oxford, and there is a pull of 1^ 
mile to get to it. 



174 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



Winter Baces. 



A Dat*8 Tbainino. 



Kise about 7 a.m. 
Exercise . . • 
Breakfast, 8.30 . 
Exercise (forenoon) 
Luncheon about 1 p.m« . 



Exetdse 

Dinner about 5 or 6 
Bed about 10. 



Sleep 
Exercise 

Diet 



:) 



As for summer races. 



i» 



None. 

A little cold meat. 

Bread. 

Beer, half a pint, or biscuit with a glass 

of sherry ; perhaps the yolk of au egg 

in the sherry. 
About 2 o'clock start for the river and 

row over the course and back. 
As for summer races. 



Summary, 



Same as for summer races. 

Nearly the same as for summer races, luncheon 
being about equal to supper. 



There is notliing very terrible in the discipline here 
enforced, while some latitude is permitted to peculiarities and 
a wish for variety, and plenty of time is left for business and 
social intercourse. Other plans are objectionable from in- 
volving, without any resulting advantage that I can see, a 
complete hauleversement of the usual times and seasons 
adopted by the upper and middle classes in this country. For 
example, in Clasper's method dinner is to be at 12 o'clock, with 
nothing more than a very light tea afterwards and no supper. 
Then a country walk of four or five miles is to be taken before 
breakfast, and a couple of hours* row after, and another hard 
row between dinner and tea.^ ' Stonehenge ' again requires 
the time between breakfast and dinner to be spent entirely in 
billiards, skittles, quoits, rowing, and running, in spite of 

^ Quoted by Mr. Madaren from Bowing Almanac for 1863. 



ATHLETIC TEAINIBra. 175 

another hour's row being prescribed at 6 F.M. He also 
requires the aspirant to athletic honours to sleep between ten 
and eleven hours. ^ Only professionals are likely to carry out 
such rules. The most doubtfcd point which a physiological 
critic would lay his finger upon is the exaggerated abstinence 
from fluids recommended in the Oxford scale. The use of 
water to the extent of the thirst felt by the individual pro- 
motes the vital renewal of the skin, kidneys, and digestive 
viscera, and cannot be injurious. But it should not be very 
cold, or swallowed in great quantities at once on a full 
stomach, or after extraordinary exertion, lest it should lower 
too much the bodily temperature. If the mouth be first 
rinsed out, and the draught imbibed calmly and deliberately, 
it quenches thirst much better than when rudely gulped, and 
is not likely to be taken in excess. 

It is probably not necessary in the present day to enforce 
sufficient tubbing to keep the skin clean and &esh. It is in 
fact more necessary to deprecate excess in the use of cold 
water. If a bath is taken between exercise and a meal, the 
chill should at least be taken ofi*, for there has been % con- 
siderable loss of temperature by perspiration, and more can- 
not be afforded. The use of a cold bath is to contract the 
cutaneous arteries, and by throwing the blood back suddenly 
on the heart and lungs to stimulate them to increased reaction, 
so that the living stream should flow vigorously to 'the extre- 
mities. If the skin is already pale and cool, as after exertion, 
it shows that they are already contracted and rather demand 
relaxation. The time for a cold bath is when the skin is fall- 
coloured, dry, and warm. 

Nothing is said here of the training of jockeys and others 
whose object is to reduce their weight to its extreme minimum 
irrespectively of augmenting the strength, as that cannot be 
recommended on the score of attaining high health, nor is it 
likely to be voluntarily undertaken by healthy persons. 

The university scheme may fairly be accepted as a typical 

^ Article ' Boat-racing ' in British Sural Sports, I86I. 



176 DIET IN HEALTH. 

regimen for fully developing a yotmg man's corporeal powers 
to fulfil the demands of an extraordinary exertion. It is a 
standard which we may modify according to the circamstances 
for which the training is required. 

Thus, for instance, in training for the moors or for the 
thorough enjoyment of partridge shooting, the reduction of 
fikt should not be carried so far, as steady endurance for many 
days together is required, and a treasure of adipose tissue as a 
basis of molecular growth must be retained. Butter may be 
allowed, milk in the tea, and eggs as a change for the lean 
meat at breakfisi.st. For men who have got into middle life 
running is needlessly troublesome, and quick walking may be 
substituted both for that and for the rapid rowing. Never- 
theless the times should be observed strictly, and the amount 
of the walking may be raised gradually up to that wanted for 
the day's sport. It will be necessary, however, to allot to 
exercise a considerable longer time than is allotted in the 
college training scheme. For it must be remembered that 
quick rowing for an hour is a violent exertion and takes more 
out of a man, and practises the wind better than four hours' 
walking. The chest may b^ expanded by the employment of 
light dumb-bells or clubs (if heavy they strain the muscles). 
And the healthy action of the skin should be promoted by 
firiction with rough towels and horse-hair gloves. The time 
of the training should not be so long as six weeks, for in point 
of fact it is carried on by the exercise of the sport, and if such 
an extended period as used for boat-racing is adopted; there is 
a risk of over-doing the discipline. A fortnight is quite enough 
for the purpose. 

To those of our countrymen and women who have not the 
opportunity or inclination for spending their holiday in what 
is commonly called * sport,* the fashion of mountaineering is a 
great boon. And even sportsmen, during the dead season 
when there is nothing to be killed, experience a compensation 
in finding something to go up. But a great deal of the 
advantage of the relaxation is often lost by not being already 



ATHLETIC TRAINING. 



1>7 



in training. At least the first week is wasted in getting into 
condition, and is a period of as mnch pain as pleasure. This 
may be obviated by a gradual adoption of the diet and 
discipline, modified as above, for a week or ten days before 
starting. 

The pain in the back and sides which hunting men often 
experience at the commencement of the season, arises usually 
from imperfect expansion of the lungs in ordinary breathing. 
The muscles of the trunk are strained by the effort of expira- 
tion during exercise. The inconvenience may be prevented 
by a partial training. The diet should be drier than usual, 
and all sweets and pastry left off, the chest expanded by 
dumb-bells and running, and the habit acquired of keeping 
the lungs as full of air as possible. Women, being weaker- 
muscled than men, often feel this to the extent of giving up 
altogether the healthy amusement of riding. The simple 
adoption of modified training gets over the difl&culty. The 
dumb-bells should be used in private before putting on the 
stays, and particular attention paid to the injunction of 
thoroughly inflating the lungs. 

It used to be the custom before the commencement of a 
course of training to be bled, purged, and sweated. I do not 
think it of any service, and it induces constipation of the 
bowels, besides being weakening. Some take Turkish baths 
during athletic training, but they appear to derange the daily 
discipline, unless they are taken every day, which would be a 
decided excess. 

Ladies who are going to try training for athletic purposes, 
will find some attention to costume expedient. If stays are 
worn (and there is no objection to them if well-fitted and not 
too tight) they should have no shoulder-straps. The drawers 
should not be tied below the knee. The best defences to the 
lower extremities in rough ground ard stout Alpine shoes, and 
light leathern gaiters half way up. to the knee supporting the 
long socks without garters. A light woollen jersey should be 
worn next the skin. The skirt of the dress should be short 

N 



178 DIET IN HEALTH. 

and narrow, and tbe best materials are lerge and Homeapun. 
Besides these the less drapery is worn the better. 

Training is sometimes carried too far*— the men describe 
themselves as ' fallen to pieces.' The most peculiar symptom 
is an occasional attack of sndden loss of power, after exer* 
tion. It is sometimes called ' &inting,' bnt there is no loss 
of sense, as in that state, and is quickly relieved by liquid 
food. It is pathologically an acute and temporary form of 
that consequence of overstrained muscle which constitutes 
* writer's,' ' turner's,' and ' blacksmith's ' palsy. The obvious 
remedy is to leave oflf training. 

The exercise and excitement combined of practising for 
boat-racing will sometimes induce recurrent palpitations of 
the heart. A physician should immediately be consulted as 
to whether this arises from an organic cause ; if it does not, 
rest and a dose or two of purgative medicine should be taken 
before a resumption of training ; and it will be well to add a 
moderate quantity of port wine to the dietary. If the palpi- 
tations still return, there is no help for it but to give in, and 
acknowledge that nature has not cut out everyone to the 
pattern of an athlete. 

The unusual strain on the skin sometimes induces boils. 
The best preventive is to anoint the skin with a little sweet 
oil after the morning bath. If a spot gets tender and red, 
threatening a boil, touch it lightly every day with nitrate of 
silver, and give bark and chlorate of potash twice a day in the 
usual doses. {Decoct, Cinch, fl. § j.; Fot GJilor, gr. xv.) 

A modification of training of considerable importance to 
notice is that which contemplates the reduction of superfluous 
plumpness, either for the sake of the appearance or the 
general comfort of the sufferer. There may be a question 
whether the health is benefited by it, unless the previous diet 
or habits had been irrational and improper. 

Corpulence usually prevents exercise being taken to a 
sufficient extent for confidence to be placed in it as an efficient 
part of the treatment, and therefore the diet becomes a more 



ATHLlSTIC TRAINIl^'G. 179 

essential feature. If an exhausting amonnt of bodily exertion 
be persisted in, thjB digestion of meat is interfered with, while 
at the same time the absorption of such fat as unavoidably 
exists in the food still goes on, so that the muscles and nerves 
lose strength while the adipose tissue grows. Besides this, 
if by violent means the weight is worked down, those violent 
means must be continuously sustained to keep it down ; and 
if they are neglected in consequence of more absorbing 
occupations, the inconvenience rapidly increases to a greater 
degree than ever. Many uncomfortably stout persons are 
very active in mind and body, and really could not add to 
their muscular discipline without risk of injury. 

The following may be taken as a modification of the train- 
ing regimen suitable for the reduction of corpulence. 

Dai/s regimen for a three iveehs^ course. 

Rise at 7. Rub the body well with horse-hair gloves, have 
a cold bath, take a short turn in the open air. Breakfast 
(alone) at 8 or 8.30, on the lean of beef or mutton, cutting off" 
the fat and skin, dry toast, or biscuit, or oat-cake, a tumbler 
of claret and water or tea without milk or sugar, or made in 
the Russian way with a slice of lemon. Luncheon at 1 on 
bread or biscuit, Dutch cheese, salad, watercresses, or roasted 
apples (without sugar or cream), hung beef, or anchovies, or 
red herring or olives, and such-like relishes. Drink, after 
eating, claret and water, or unsweetened lemonade, or plain 
water, in moderation. Dinner at any convenient hour. Take 
no soup, fish, or pastry, but plain meat, of any kind except 
pork, rejecting the fat and skin. Spinach, French beans, or 
any other green vegetable may be taken, but no potatoes, 
made dishes, or pastry. A jelly or a lemon- water ice or a 
roast apple must suffice for sweets, and dessert. Claret and 
water at dinner, and one glass of sherry or Madeira after- 
wards. 

Between each meal exercise, as a rule, in the open air, to 

K 2 



180 DIET Ik' HEALTH. 

the extent of indacing perspiration, must be taken. Biumingy 
when practicable, is the best form in wbich to take it. 

The number of hours allotted to bed in the Universitj 
schemes is too much for the purpose now proposed. Seven is. 
quite enough, and if the person imder training wants to retire 
before 12 o'clock, he ought to be astir before the time men- 
tioned above. There are few things more weakening than 
remaining in bed, or even in a bedroom which has been closed 
during the night, when thoroughly woke up. During sleep 
little air is required ; we all know the slow shallow breathing 
of a sleeper, by which the respiratory muscles are rested. 
Beastfi get enough oxygen in their narrow dens, and man in 
his fusty garret. But once awake, both expand their lungs 
fully, instinctively demand fresh air, and suffer from the 
want of it more at that hour than at any other time during 
the day. K a Sybarite must indulge in the horizontal position, 
let him at all events open his window and take his tub before 
he does so. 

If good Turkish baths are accessible, four or five may be 
used in place of exercise between meals at intervals during 
the reductive training. And thorough shampooing by an 
experienced hand should not be omitted. 

The weight is to be accurately recorded at the commence- 
ment and every four days, so that its loss may not be too 
rapid or excessive. Six or seven pounds is usually as much 
as it is prudent to lose during the fortnight. 

A more important sign of improvement is increased vital 
capfiu^ity of the lungs as measured by the spirometer. 

After the fortnight's course the severe parts of the discipline 
may be gradually omitted, but it is strongly recommended to 
modify the general habits in accordance with the principle of 
taking as small a quantity as possible of fat and sugar and of 
the substances which form fat and sugar, and sustaining the 
respiratory function. Fat meat, rich milk, butter, malt 
liquors, pastry, starchy foods (such as potatoes, puddings), 



V 

ATHLETIC TRAINING. 181 

sweet vegetables (each as parsnips and beet-root), sweet 
wines (such as champagne) should be taken only most 
sparingly. An appetite shoald be acquired for lean meat, 
especially for beef, mutton, and venison, for game and poultry, 
for plain boiled fish, for poor new cheese, for green vegetables 
and salads, summer fruits, oranges, lemons and pomegranates, 
almonds (fried and sprinkled with salt and cayenne), roast 
apples, olives, lemonade, buttermilk, claret, and hock. Aerated 
bread, captain's biscuits, and dried toast, all in moderation, 
are the most appropriate form of flour. 

Excessive stoutness amounts to a disease; it is a true 
hypertrophy of the adipose tissue, and it is not capable of 
removal by the means mentioned above, though in cases 
where it has been augmented by a previously inconsiderate 
diet, it may be considerably reduced. The subject will be 
resumed when the dietetics of disease are under consideration. 



n: 



483 



CHAPTER VII. 

HINTS FOE HEALTHY TBAVELLEES. 

A HODEBATE conTSO of trainmg is a good preparation previoiis 
to travelling for business or pleasure, or for active military 
service ; but it is well in these cases not to let the dietary 
become habitually too limited or careful. It is convenient to 
be able to eat without repugnance any food capable of sup- 
plying nutriment, even though dirty, ill-cooked, or of strange 
nature. There is often a choice only between that and going 
without. 

When actually on a carriage or railway journey it is unwise 
to make l&rse meals. Thev are sure to be swallowed in a 
hurried xnaier. a.d in a site of heat and exciten^ent very 
unfavourable to digestion. The best way is to make no meal 
at all till the journey is over, but to carry a supply of cold 
provisions, bread, eggs, chickens, game, sandwiches, Cornish 
pasties, almonds, oranges, captain's biscuits, water, and sound 
red wine, or cold tea, sufficient to stay the appetites of the 
party, and let a small quantity be taken every two or three 
hours. 

1£ this plan be adopted, not only is activity of mind and 
body preserved, but that heat and swelling of the legs which 
80 often concludes a long day's journey is avoided. Attention 
to the matter is particularly necessary when the journey 
continues all night, and for several days in succession, since 
varicose veins and permanent thickening of the ankles have 



184 DIET IN HEALTH. 

sometimes resulted from this exertion being combined with 
too long fasts and harried repletion at protracted intervals. 

The less stimnlant a traveller consumes before he arrives 
at his sleeping place the better. Then the habitual allowance 
is of advantage. If a good wine is made in the country be 
is passing through, he will probably prefer to fare the same 
as his hosts; if not, Bordeaux and Burgundy are the best 
vintages when procurable, and Marsala in Italy. 

In France and Germany very good local beer is to be 
obtained, but landlords seem to object to its being publicly 
used as a beverage. We ought to insist on our rights as 
tourists on this point. In apple districts, cider is usually 
placed on the table gratis, and makes a good substitute for 
doubtful water. 

The water is very apt to disagree with tourists, especially 
in volcanic, basaltic, mountainous, and marshy districts. A 
pocket filter is a great protection, and boiling the water makes 
all organic matters harmless and gets rid of the greater part 
of the lime. But neither of these expedients removes the 
neutral and alkaline salts, which will sometimes act as a 
purgative. 

In almost all country places out of England it is impossible 
to avoid the greasy dishes which are apparently preferred by 
all except our own countrymen. And a frequent consequence 
is rancid indigestion, with nauseous taste in the mouth, and 
flatulence or diarrhoea. A few drops of vinegar or lemon 
juice, and a little cayenne pepper in the plate are the readiest 
correctives. 

Another article of cuisine that offends the bowels, if not 
the palate, of Britons, is garlic. Not uncommonly in southern 
climes an egg with the shell on is the only procurable animal 
food without garlic in it. Flatulence and looseness are the 
frequent results. Bouilli, with its accompaniments of mustard 
sauce and water melon, is the safest resource, and not an un- 
pleasant one, after a little education. 

By special favour potatoes can usually be obtained boiled 



HINTS FOR TRAVEL. IS* 

ysrith their jackets on {en chemise) , but unless asked for are- 
seldom produced. 

Saw ham, which some persons seem to find a luxury, will be- 
avoided by all sane travellers who have heard of the frequency 
with which it is infested with live measle-worm and trichina 
spiralis. 

It is a great convenience to be able to eat olive oil, which 
is much wholesomer than doubtful butter in warm climates ;: 
and those who care for the fature comfort of their sons and 
daughters will accustom them to the taste in youth, instead of 
encouraging a daintiness in this particular, as I have seen 
done. Repugnance to the flavour of goat's milk ought to be 
got over by those who ever intend to frequent lands where- 
the pasture will not support cows. A preference also for- 
boiled milk, or milk that has been boiled, is a safe fancy to» 
indulge, where you are not acquainted with the yielder of the* 
liquid, especially when typhoid fever is rife. Irish peasants 
scarcely ever drink it raw. 

On the Continent the household bread is usually unwhole- 
some and nasty, and captain's biscuits are never to be obtained. 
It is prudent to carry a store of them for use whenever the 
staff of life is especially abominable. This does not apply to- 
Spain, where delicious white, firm, fine-grained bread can be- 
procured in places where it is the only thing eatable by a 
dainty person. 

A small tin of the usual tea employed at home is welB 
worth the space it occupies. 

' Liebig ' is procurable in almost every civilised town, and 
a small store may be laid in when rough cookery is expected. 

A knowledge of simple methods of preparing food is ofbeni 
a great comfort to a traveller. A friend of mine was once 
considerably non-plussed in Norway, after he had bargained, 
for some lamb, by having the animal handed over to him 
bleating, with a request that he would return the skin in the- 
evening. The task was accomplished under difficulties, but 
the details are unpleasant. This is an extrems^ ^Qrc^^<^^v:^^^ 



186 DIET IN HEALTH. 

which need not be provided against by all vacation barristers 
.acquiring the art of batchering ; but still it is worth while to 
learn in yonr own kitchen how to prepare an omelet, fry fish, 
^eggs and ham, cat and grill a steak off a joint, boil and fry 
potatoes, scrabble eggs, mnll wine (if it happens to be sonr), 
boil coffee, make ' Liebig ' into good sonp, &c. These accom- 
plishments may be brought into play without wandering very 
fai* from home ; and it is astonishing how popular they render 
those sometimes troublesome fellow-travellers, the ladies of 
^ihe party. 

Travellers, otherwise strong, are apt to get diarrhoea 
occasionally, partly from the unaccustomed diet, partly from 
the water, but very frequently also from the pestiferous state 
-of the provisions for daily retirement in Continental inns. It 
is worth knowing that in many places, especially in France, 
the landlady has a small private establishment of her own, 
•>quite unobjectionable, of which she will lend the key to 
favoured guests, especially Britons. In country places gentle- 
men will do well to worship Cloacina suh Jove, For this sort 
of mild dysentery will keep recurring again and again, easier 
induced by having occurred before ; and not unfrequently 
it will leave traces of imperfect digestion in the bowels for 
weeks after returning home. 

As a provision against Sbccidental diarrhoea it is wise to be 
prepared with some chalk and opium powders {Fulvu Gretca 
aromaticus cum Opio. PJuzrm, Brit.) made up in 20-grain 
packets, in thin gutta percha or oil silk, to keep them dry. 
In northerly latitudes half a packet, containing ^ gr. of 

• opium, can be taken after each relaxation. But in warm 
countries a more efficient, at least a more permanently efficient 
remedy is to be found in lemon juice. The f>atient should lie ' 
down flat, and keep sipping a mixture of half and half lemon 
juice and water, or simply sucking lemons, till the symptoms 
have ceased, which will soon be the case. The nausea and 
narcotism induced by opium are thus avoided, and there is no 

• danger in taking an excess of the fruit. It is a good thing 



HINTS FOB TRAVEL. 187 

to get accustomed to the acidity of the flavour, for there is 
nothing so wholesome and convenient as a drink. 

Travellers in countries where the atmosphere is very dry, 
BS in the vicinity of the Mediterranean, sometimes lose their 
appetite for breakfast from want of sleep. This inconvenience 
may be overcome by soaking a sheet or some towels in water 
and spreading them out on the floor of the bed-room, so as to 
difiuse moisture through the air breathed during sleep. 

Long days' rides, especially in the heat, are liable to bring 
on an inert or semi-paralysed condition of the stomach, so that 
if a full meal be taken immediately it remains undigested, 
and is frequently thrown up again. This may be prevented by 
a rest and a hot bath between getting out of the saddle and 
sitting down to table. If these cannot be had, it will be best 
to eat something very light, such as soup, eggs, bread, and in 
small quantities, and to make up the deficiency next day at 
breakfast and luncheon, which should be always the solidest 
meals in journeys of this sort. 

Boils are sometimes very troublesome to equestrians. A 
small piece of nitrate of silver ought to be carried in the 
baggage, and on the first tenderness, redness, and hardness of 
the skin, the part should be damped and the caustic crossed 
twice over it. The object is not to make the cuticle rise in a 
blister, but to contract and render insensitive the cutis. This 
will usually cause the boil to die away. 

Pedestrians will do well to make a good break&st before 
starting, however early the hour may be. If tea or coffee are 
not relished on account of the time being so unusual, beef tea 
or soup will be found an excellent substitute. If prepared 
over night, they are easily warmed up in the morning. 

Advantage should be seized of every day of rest to feed 
well, and fatten up as much as possible. This does not put 
the body out of training, but in fact keeps it in a condition fit 
for continuous exertion. 

Beer, wine, and spirits should be avoided altogether during 
the day's work, but water, cold tea, or lemonade may be 



188 DIET IN HEALTH. 

drunk according to thirst. An occasional pipe of tobacco 
seems to palliate better than anything else that dryness of 
month which constitutes false thirst. This false thirst nata- 
rally arises dnring exercise in a rarefied air, but in mountainous 
places it is often aggravated very much by eating snow or ice. 
Spring water, though scarcely over the freezing point, does 
not seem to have the same unpleasant effect. 

Sea-voyages have a powerful curative effect on some 
invalids, but they do not generally bring healthy persons into 
very good condition. If it is calm, landsmen over-eat them- 
selves, take too little exercise, sleep badly and get their bowels 
constipated. If it is rough, they suffer from sea-sickness and 
the increased badness of ventilation below. The remedies for 
these things, so far as they are remediable, are obvious. 

Short sea- voyages do nobody any good, and a few people 
a great deal of harm. They are an inevitable evil for all 
islanders who wish to enlarge their ideas. Sea-sickness may, 
however, be considerably palliated by rational preparation for 
it. In the first place care should be taken to finish all pre- 
liminary arrangements as long before starting as you can, so 
that a day or two may be given to rest and a temperance 
somewhat more than usual. If the eyes or skin are dingy 
and yellow, take a purge of aloes or taraxacum. Go on board 
in good time, so as to secure a comfortable post. If it is 
evidently going to bo rough, go below and lie down imme- 
diately. If you remain on deck, be very warmly clothed, and 
especially let no chill affect the abdomen or back. If the sto- 
mach feels empty, and still more if any dry retching occurs, 
take bottled^ porter and biscuit spread with a little butter 
and cayenne pepper — which last article, by the way, amply 
repays the space it will occupy in a traveller's pocket through- 
out a journey, so useful is it on all occasions. Nutritious food 
should be taken when practicable, but loading the stomach 
with trash brings on sickness; though truly enough it 
facilitates the process of vomiting, and prevents the regurgi- 



HINTS FOR TRAVEL. 189 

tation of bile, which is always peculiarly painfal after dry 
retching. 

If the voyage is by night, and sufficiently long to make a 
night's rest of, say seven or eight honrs at least, it is worth 
while to swallow a fall dose of chloral on embarking, and to 
sleep through one's troubles. But if you have to wake up in 
two or three hours to disembark, you feel ill all the next day, 
if not longer. 

Ice-bags, and all other charms for sea-sickness, have 
turned out mere trade puffs. 



191 



CHAPTER VIII. 

EFFECTS OP CLIMATE. 

The race of man exhibits great powers of resistance to exter- 
nal influences, and is able to occupy a length and breadth of 
the earth's surface such as is attained by no other animal or- 
even plant. This arises not fix)m any innate bodily strength, 
bnt from his being able to accommodate himself by the aid of 
reason to circumstances. Thus experience has led to the 
adoption of very different dietaries in different regions. Aa 
Esquimaux wonld find much difficulty in growing rice near* 
his home, so he wisely dines on such meat as he can get or on 
whale-blubber. A Bengalee could not obtain a supply of* 
flesh food without immense labour, and finds rice grown easily,, 
so he lives almost entirely on the latter. The curiosities of 
food afford examples of the boldness of man in not being 
deterred by their repnlsiveness to his senses from converting 
assimilable substances to his use, enough to make the simple 
reader shudder ; but I do not know that the philosopher gains 
much knowledge from such recitals. Man learns to swallow, 
hon gre, mat gre, whatever contains aliment, and the art ot 
living lies in the learning so to eat it as that it shall serve his< 
turn. Climate influences diet mainly by the supply it affbrds.. 
In most warm countries there is an abnndance of starchy 
and sugary food, and but little animal. How shall this- 
existent provision be made most available for the prolongation 
of life ? Let us refer back to the principle on which were 
reckoned in the first part of this volume the requirements or 



192 DIET IN HEALTH. 

the body for its daily work (p. 8), and draw the obvious in- 
ferences therefrom. The diet is, in hot countries, perforce one 
that entails the loading the digestive organs with a great 
-excess of carbon in order that enongh nitrogen may be 
obtained. In the first place, therefore, the carbon should not be 
in too rapidly digestible a form. Starch and vegetable fibre, as 
supplied by grain and green food, are better than oleaginous 
matter in warm climates ; for while the former only overloads 
the intestinal canal, the latter overloads the blood and tissues 
with useless and deleterious products. Then, it is essential 
that no frequent calls should be made for unusual exertion : 
the muscles and nerves must not be worn out, for the materials 
of their repair are few. Moreover, the supply of food must be 
continuously copious and accessible ; for starvation is badly 
borne by him who is hanging on to life ' by the skin of his 
teeth.' 1^0 sudden changes must be made in the dietary, 
«ven in the form of the vegetable food ; for a new article is 
with difficulty digested by an unhabituated stomach, though 
it should be perhaps more ordinarily digestible than the usual 
nutriment. This is not the case with meat eaters, who can 
bear change much easier firom one kind of flesh-food to another. 
The English reader's interest in his fellow-subjects will 
naturally suggest to him the important bearing which these 
considerations have on the duties of both government and 
individuals towards the inhabitants of our Indian possessions. 
Our first business is to keep them alive at whatever cost to 
ourselves ; and the next to render them as little dependent as 
possible on the accidents of drought, flood, and other un- 
favourable con^ngencies of season, partly by storing grain, 
and (what is infinitely more important) water, the means of 
producing grain, from one season to another. Tanks, artificial 
lakes, irrigation works, and roads, stamped with the latest 
improvements of modern science, will preserve the memory of 
•our rule when the bronze statues of our leaders are as unin- 
itelligible as the Memnon. Who cares for, or knows of, the 
xaartial exploits of the Pharaohs ? Yet their successful efforts 



CLIMATE. 193 

for regulating the food supply of Egypt preserve fresh, for 
ever, our grateful remembrance* of them. The heaven of 
nations is in the hearts of men. 

Again, we must not expect to get work out of vegetable 
feeders in return for bur bounty. If required to exert them- 
selves in any unusuAl way, when food is deficient, they simply 
die. The reason is evident : they have been living on their 
own tissues, and the small quantity of albuminous matter in 
grain is a long time in building them up again ; so that for 
weeks or even months their muscles are in a state of atrophy. 
A broken watch must be repaired before you call upon it to 

go- 
Also, any variations made in the nature of their food must 

be very gradual and well considered. 

Still, there is no impossibility in the gradual introduction 
of changes, at least in the preparation of food. Some method 
might be popularised of augmenting the proportion of nitro- 
genous matter in the dietary by mechanically reducing the 
carbon, such as produces in Italy the highly nutritious 
macaroni. Starch is readily washed out of the grain, and is- 
itself a valuable article of commerce for industrial purposes, 
as well as being capable of conversion into more digestible 
substances for use as food. Also the separation of starch and 
the storing it in a form less liable to decomposition and the 
ravages of insects than ordinary grain, would be a great source 
of safety to a graminivorous people. 

I had a striking illustration of the different values of 
vegetable and animal food a few years ago in the case of a 
robust Hindoo gentleman, who habitually lived on rice and 
vetches, which he imported himself from Bombay, and had 
cooked by a servant of the same faith as himself, so that his 
meal should not be defiled by the touch or even the look of a 
Christian. The said servant went holiday-making to' Green- 
wich, got drunk and into the lock-up, so that his master had 
an involuntary fast of nearly two days. And then he was so 
weakened that the labour of opening his letters brought on 





194 DIET IN HEALTH. 

hiccup, TomitiBg, and extreme depression, so that be conld not 
take food when, at last, he ootained it. The mention of beef- 
tea was an abomination to him ; he said, his ancestors had not 
put in their mouths animal food for 6,000 years, and he was 
not g^ing to begin. But when the abominable substance was 
craftily introduced to the other extremity of the digestive 
canal, it seemed to flow directly into his veins, which fiUed 
with blood, and he was well. The absorbents had clearly not 
lost their natural habits by disuse for so many generations. 

Where the circumstances of a country are such that plants 
suitable for food cannot be grown, while there is a sufficient 
supply of animals to nourish the population, the inhabitants are 
hardy, enduring of extreme cold and heat, and capable of 
yiolent physical exertion. But steady daily labour wears them 
out, and is abhorrent to their feelings. We may instance, as 
under several varieties of temperature, the Esquimaux, the 
Indians and half-breds of the Pampas, the Tartar hordes, and 
the Arabs of the Nubian Desert. These nations of meat- 
eating hunters and herdsmen are mightily strong and prolific, 
and have fulfilled to them the promise made to the sons of the 
wild Sheik Jonadab, of never lacking ' a man to stand before 
the Lord for ever.' But that is only so long as they follow 
their ancestral traditions, and retain habits suited to nono 
but sparsely inhabited lands. When the inevitable tide of 
civilisation overtakes them, and they become cultivators and 
craftsmen, they fall under the natural laws of population and 
take their chances with the rest of mankind. Often, indeed, 
the day goes against them in the fight of innovation, especially 
if it has been sudden ; they fiide away childless under our very 
eyes, like that vast American tribe of which, it is said, the only 
remnants are a chief, a tomahawk, and six gallons of whisky. 
The only possible remedy for this terrible state of things is 
beef. Our progress is progressively poisoning off our weaker 
brethren ; we are no more to blame for it than we are for 
crushing the harmless beetles and daisies that lie in our path. 
Still, we are bound in mercy to tide them over the struggle, to 



CLIMATE. 195 

let them assimilate gradnallj with the more civilised world. 
Hunters should have flEicilities afforded them of becoming 
herdsmen, and, in course of generations, from herdsmen, 
farmers and gardeners ; for the immediate transition from a 
purely animal to a principally vegetable diet, though borne by 
the individual, is fatal to the race. 

The action of climate on diet seems to be affected by the 
food produce which it enables the soil to bring forth. The 
fixed inhabitants grow accustomed to it, and, according to the 
law of the survival of the fittest for the peculiar circumstances, 
are prosperous and prolific as a race, and healthy as indi- 
viduals, while following their ancestral habits. But that 
historic fact does not at all show either that the diet is the 
best abstractedly, still less that it is the best suited to 
foreigners. It seems absurd to argue that the inhabitant of 
the Polar Circle lives on fat animal food because it is so cold, 
and, at the same time, that the burning plains of the Pampas 
are a reason for thriving on flesh and water only ; or that the 
climatic circumstances of North Norway and Southern Spain 
are the cause of the inhabitants living almost entirely on 
bread. The best diet in the abstract is a mixed diet, and 
mixed in the proportions selected by the experience of the 
most civilised nations. And it is also the best for the indi- 
vidual who is accustomed to it to adhere to, under whatever 
sky he may be wandering. The higher the health he enjoys, 
the more nearly he approaches to the true aim of being in 
training, the better he is able to resist the adverse circum- 
stances he may be subjected to. Experience does not justify 
an agreement with those dieticians who desire us to alter our 
commissariat in accordance with the example of those among 
whom we dwell for a season, or in obedience to the thermo- 
meter, and M. Cyr is indubitably wrong when he blames 
Britons for * retaining their customary substantial regimen 
under other skies and in hot countries.' * 

In India and in Africa our soldiers suffer from fevers, 

* Traiti de V Alimentation ^ p. 221. 
o2 



196 DIET IN HEALTH. 

ag^e, dysentery, and are liable to contract cholera and other 
epidemics. But the camps of our foes are usually still more 
severely ravaged at the same time ; and it is observed that 
those soffer least who continue the habits of sensible men at 
home. Inflammations and degenerations of the liver also 
afflict our countrymen in the East, and a certain proportion of 
this evil is due to intemperance, as it is in England ; but the 
great majority of the cases are traceable to the consequences 
of malarious fever. It does not appear that those who make 
a rational use of alcohol, as they would have done at home, 
Buffer more than the abstinent. The principal thing to be 
remembered is that as the outgoings of water by skin and 
lungs are very great, the ingoings must be great also, and 
therefore that the fermented drinks must be taken in a dilute 
form, otherwise, thirst will cause an excess of stimulant to be 
consumed. This applies equally to the warm summers in dry 
temperate climates, such as Italy, as well as to tropical regions. 
The object of attention to diet in xmaccustomed climates 
should be to acconmiodate to the demands of the system the 
food which can be obtained, and to which we are obliged by 
necessity to restrict ourselves. If starchy food is to be got, 
solely or mainly, a great deal of it must be eaten, and the 
digestion of this unusual mass is facilitated by being taken 
alone and not mixed with meat ; and the meat, when it comes 
to hand, should form a separate meal. Thus the full force of 
salivary digestion is brought into play. Involuntary vege- 
tarians are apt to starve themselves from want of inclination 
towards the flavourless viands. They should be warned of 
the danger of this. If nothing but animal food is within 
reach, again, still more is it imperative to eat largely, if the 
body is to be preserved in its integrity, as has been argued in 
a previous chapter (p. 8). Sir John Boss found the Esqui- 
maux devouring about twenty pounds a day of meat and 
blubber. And his experience among his own men leads him 
to urge the desirability of acquiring, previously to a contem- 
plated winter residence in Polar regions, a taste £c»* Greenland 



CLIMATE. 197 

food, the large consiiinption of it being the tme secret of life 
in those frozen countries. * The quantity of food,' he says , 
' should be increased, be that as inconvenient as it may.' ^ 
Again, Sir Francis Head, in his famous journey across the 
burning plains of the Pampas, where beef and water were the 
only victuals to be had, got himself into magnificent condi- 
tion, not by dint of the limited slices of civilised society, but 
by eating flesh, morning, noon, and night, liberally.' Under 
both circumstances the addition of a small quantity of vege- 
table food would have rendered needless the excess of nitro- 
genous aliment. 

When the Englishman is in foreign countries it is more 
necessary than at home to pay that attention to diet which 
will ensure the highest attainable health and condition. For 
to his constitution, at any rate, if not absolutely, every place is 
less healthy than England. Plagues of all sorts, terrestrial 
and celestial, beset his path, and he must walk warily if he 
would return sound. Perhaps, at home he may have lived 
carelessly, and been lucky enough not to sujffer, but he cannot 
hope for the same good fortune under less favourable auspices. 
This caution is not required by the sensible readers of these 
pages, but it may be useful in its application to their less wise 
dependents and clients, who, in countries where one is always 
thirsty and there is abundance of drink, are as apt to yield to 
temptation as in England. The punishment of stupidity is 
surer and heavier than they are led to anticipate by former ex- 
perience. 

Exercise and clothing should be accommodated to the food. 
We should not in these particulars copy the manners of 
natives any more than we do their dietary. Active muscularity 
and field sports render the body less likely to sujffer from the 
solar and malarious influences to which they, to a certain 
extent, expose those who pursue them ; and the simple pre- 
cautions of keeping the skin dry and warm after exertion, and 

* Koss, Second Voyage for the Discovery of the North-west Passag&f p. 413. 
^ Head's Journey across the Pampas {IS2S), 



198 DIET IN HEALTH. 

of taking small preventive doses of quinine, will make these 
Jiealthj pleasures nearly as safe in the tropics as in Europe, 
times and places of extraordinary risk being avoided. 

In the selection of fit persons to undergo, with safety to 
themselves and others, exposure to extremes of either cold or 
heat, the surest guide is their power of gaining weight and 
condition under a course of training. These are not always 
persons of the biggest muscles and bones ; indeed, a moderately 
sized frame is the toughest as a rule. Sheer pluck will some- 
times enable a most unfit subject to pass undetected through 
tests of endurance ; and doubtless such a temper is valuable 
in a colleague ; but it will not supply the place of hardihood. 
The surest proof of hardihood is improvement under training. 

As the women desiring to undergo bodily hardship are 
more exceptional than men, so is it all the more necessary to 
test them thoroughly. Their desire is almost always the 
self-sacrifice of love ; but they do not wish to burden others 
with bitter memories or to injure the object they profess to 
aid, as happens if they break down. The world has less 
direct claim on their assistance, and therefore they should not 
offer it without being sure that it is really worth having. 
This specially applies to the wives of missionaries, travellers 
in new countries, emissaries to barbarous nations, and the like. 
They are of incalculable service while sound, but a serious 
impediment when sick. Their enduring courage may be 
taken for granted, as it is proved by their volunteering. But 
unless they grow in strength and weight, or at least preserve 
their weight, under a course of training, their place is home. 

The standard chapter in dietetic treatises on the due influ- 
ence of the seasons on the selection of food in temperate 
climates does not exhibit any practical contributions of science. 
We hardly require to be told to indulge more in weak pota- 
tions in July than in December, or to eat a better dinner when 
our appetite is braced up by a frost. Some of their refine- 
ments remind one of the dandies in Imperial Rome who wore 
heavy finger-rings in winter and light in summer, and are 



CLIMATE. 199 

beneath the notice of a healthy man. Some are positively 
repugnant to experience, as, for example, the recommendation 
to keep ont the cold by eating sngary and starchy dishiBS, on 
the groiind that they are producers of heat by combustion. 
The loss of heat by evaporation makes it quite as necessary 
to sustain the temperature of the body in sunmier as in winter, 
and the same amount of force has to be elicited ; so that, as a 
Imatter of fact, meals of bread and pastry and sweet fruits are 
more seasonable in warm weather than in cold, for they cause 
less feverishness and excitement than meat does. The succes- 
sion in their due season of marketable articles affords a suffi- 
cient guide to their selection. As an almost universal rule 
they are wholesomest when cheapest, if the simple directions 
given aJready for securing their soundness and freedom from 
adulteration be adhered to. 

Sir James Clark * remarks that * Change of air is not 
more valuable as a remedy in the cure of disease and its 
consequences, than as a preventive of disease, more especially 
in childhood and youth.' It is upon the appetite that its 
effect is first marked, and no doubt this is most prominent 
when the change is from an impure to a purer air. Yet I 
have known the mere change alone to have a beneficial influ- 
ence, as, for instance, a removal for a time from the sea-side 
or the fresh breezes of the "Worcestershire hills to London. 
Observation does not incline me to have faith in the doctrine 
of acclimatisation. It seems to me that a long residence in a 
climate, instead of rendering it more salubrious to the resider, 
makes it less suitable in close proportion to its length. I 
cannot at all join Claudian in his praise of the old man of 
Verona, who attained the age of ninety without ever going out 
of the suburbs.* He used his natural toughness to set a very 
bad example to his neighbours ; and if many followed it, I am 
sure some must have suffered in mind and body. 

In choosing a place of education for children, it is desirable 

^ CycUyptsdia of Practical Medicine^ L 49. 
' De sme Veronenai epifframma» 






200 DIET IN HEALTH. 

that the climate should be decidedly different from that en« 
joyed at home during the holidays. Denizens of the stagnating, 
oft-breathed atmosphere of a metropolis will do well to select 
a country school ; dwellers on the high ground of central 
England will find what suits them best on the coast ; while 
both the sea-siders and country folks may venture, without 
risk of deterioration, to secure for their growing families the 
many advantages of instruction in a town. 

Clergymen whose health is below par and even verging on 
disease, will often gain wonderfully by a mutual exchange of 
duty, provided the climates of their several spheres are different. 
Satirists say that parsons' livings always disagree with them ; 
and there is a strong spice of fact in the statement ; it is not 
&ncy, but a real stagnation, from monotony in their aerial 
and other surroundings. The remedy is easy and cheap, but 
the physiological conditions of it should be clearly understood. 
It would be a profitable subject for bishops and archdeacons 
to dilate upon in their charges, as it is quite as important to 
the public that clergymen should be kept in repair as thai 
churches should be so attended to. 



2o: 



CHAPTER rx. 

STAEVATION, POVEBTT, AND PASTING. 

Starvation. 

There has always been a certain amount of importance* 
attached to the diet and regimen of the sick, but not till the 
present generation do we find any notice taken by men of 
science of the consequences to the healthy, of its insufficiency 
or imperffection. The remarkable researches of Cbossat on 
Inanition^ form the first important work published on this 
point. The results deduced by this physiologist from his- 
ezperiments have only been confirmed and expanded by 
later observers. 

The first and most important principle established by 
Ghossat is that absolute deprivation of food and deficiency of 
food are physiologically identical in their action on the 
animal life. One acts quicker than the other, but the differ- 
ence is merely one of duration and degree. Both are equally 
fatal in the end, if not interfered with ; and the end in both is 
regulated by the same law. Death arrives when the body has- 
lost -^ of its weight, whether that happens after days, or- 
months, or years. 

The loss of temperature is a feature common to and 
identical in both. Starvation or abstinence proved almost 
always fatal, in Ghossat's observations, whenever the animal 
warmth fell to about 76° (Fahr.) in a red-blooded creature. The 
importance of the loss of temperature was shown by the fact' 

' Cho8sat««r V Inanition , Paris, 1843. 



1202 DIET IN HEALTH. 

that a renewal of consciousness and nerve-power oonld be 
•effected, even from the torpor preceding death, by the appli- 
cation of external warmth. This fact affords a most yalnablo 
hint for the management not only of absolutely starved bnt of 
X>oorly fed individuals. 

The sensations of hunger need not be described. After a 
time these are appeased, and are succeeded by a working and 
:a grumbling and a dull aching in the small intestine. Then 
the secretions of the abdominal canal diminish and finally 
nearly cease. Digestion becomes more and more difficult, 
the longer the abstinence. In fact, an insufficient diet is not 
•only hurtful immediately, but it brings on an additional 
•danger which acts in the same direction, namely — an impedi- 
ment to absorption. The appetite falls off, and it is only 
from habit that the sufferer is induced to seek the food for 
-want of which he is perishing. 

There is absolute constipation, as may be daily noticed in 
hysterical subjects and others who do not take nutriment. 
And the forcible relief of this constipation by drugs makes 
matters worse, as we may also observe in the same hysterical 
subjects under foolish maternal discipline. 

The breathing goes on gradually getting slower and less 
deep. In a case of starvation for twenty-four hours, Dr. 
Smith found the exhalation of carbonic acid fall from 34 
ounces per diem to 22 (Philos. Trans. 1859). Fasting 
ecstatics hardly seem to breathe at all ; and if you watch at 
rest a London needlewoman, or pauper before she goes into 
* the house ', the motion of the ribs cannot be seen, so little 
^ir does she draw in. Contrasted with this is the gasping 
rapidity with which the respiratory muscles act when forced 
exertion sets them in motion. 

The alterations in the blood consequent on insufficient 
food depend on whether there has been a deprivation of water 
•or not at the same time with solids. If there has, strange to 
say, the proportions of the ingredients of the circulating fluid 
.are not affected, but the whole quantity is diminished. In 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING, 203 

sniimals starved to deaths three quarters of the blood was gone. 
But where water is abundant, and the starvation gradual and 
not immediately fatal, it is easy to see by the colouring of the 
lips that the change consists in the dilution of the nutrient 
stream with aqueous fluid. In a ghastly^picture exhibited 
at the last season of the Royal Academy (1874), * The Door of 
a Casual Ward,' it was singular to notice how the secret of the 
weird and true effect of colour lay in the omission of vermilion 
from the flesh tints. This abstraction was natural, for the 
reason that it was an imitation of the inner work of nature, 
not of the mere outside. 

The nervous system shows how it suffers from inanition 
by giddiness, fainting, hallucination and delirium. During 
sleep the dreams are most characteristic, presenting wondrous 
scenes of festivity and sensual enjoyment. Lately Mr. Parrot * 
has believed he has traced to inanition certain tissue changes 
in the nervous system, as well as in the other viscera, which 
would appear to be the material expression of the functional 
derangements first named. 

In an account by Mr. Brett in the * Medico- Chirurgical 
Review' (1841) of the denizens of the Indian prisons at 
Moorshedabad, Cawnpore, and Shahjehanpore, one of the most 
notable results of insufficient food was a peculiar glassy 
appearance in the eye followed by inflammation and ulcer or 
the cornea, a copious secretion of tears and from the Meibomian 
glands, and finally blindness from destruction of the eyeballs, 
and death by emaciation. Strange to say, these dreadful 
symptoms in such a sensitive part were accompanied by no 
pain. The same phenomena were observed long ago by 
Magendie in dogs starved to death by deprivation of all nutri- 
ment, and they occur also when gelatine only is supplied. 

Among the poor, especially among children badly fed, very 

* Compt, rend., Acad, des Sciences, 1868, t. ii. p. 412. Dr. Brown- 
Sequard calls this Steatose interstitielle diffuse de V enc^hale. By long- 
lasting insofficiencj of food the brain is more or less converted into a suety 
substance. 



204 DIET IN HEALTH. 

gimilar affections of the eyes are frequent. Thej rarelj, 
however, go on to the lengths mentioned aboye, for the 
snfferers come under medical care, are sent into hospitals or 
parish infirmaries, and are reinstated with nourishing diet. A 
recognition of the true origin of many ophthalmic epidemics 
in reformatories, pauper nurseries, and such like collections of 
infantile weakness is very necessary to be impressed upon the 
managers of those institutions. Not being medical men, they 
are prone to apply, universally, principles of regimen suited 
only to their own over-fed nurseries, and to cure all inflam- 
mations by restriction, till they discover their mistake by sad 
experience. 

If the lack of nitrogenous food is too prolonged, since it is 
the blood which is subjected to the greatest drain, and since 
in fat persons the blood errs by defect rather than by excess, 
inanition can exist while the body still retains its fat. In the 
case of the Welsh £eisting-girl ^ the body was found after death 
plump and with a coTisiderable quantity of adipose tissue upon 
it, though the jury was quite right in finding that she was 
indubitably starved to death. This is a fact of great import- 
ance in practice : one must be very circumspect in starving or 
bleeding a stout patient ; doubtless the store of adipose tissue 
may serve partly to nourish him, but it will not keep him 
alive. In our treatment of the poor we must apply the same 
reasoning, and not suppose that because a client, especially in 

* Thi? was a case of notorious imposition which the daily papers in 1869 
detailed very fully. The parents made a show of her, decking her out like 
A bride on a bed, and asserting that she had eaten no food for two years. 
Some reckless enthusiasts for strict truth set four trustworthy nurses to 
watch her ; the Celtic obstinacy of the parents was roused, and in defence 
of their imposture they allowed death to take place in the usual time which 
it does after total deprivation of food. They were found guilty of man- 
slaughter with perfect justice, for the law rightly supposes everybody to 
know that a himian being without food must necessarily die. There was no 
need to prove the fact by a cruel experiment, and to visit a poor crazy 
swindler with the punishment of death. Thus to take the moral govern- 
ment of the universe into private hands is quite unjustifiable. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 205 

old age, is fat, that he is therefore in good case and capable of 
bearing restricted diet. Jailers have sometimes attempted , 
really more from mistaken kindness than harshness, to ' tone 
down ' an obese prisoner with hard fare ; and the consequence 
nsnally is that the conntry is put to the expense of sending 
him to the infirmary. 

When entirely deprived oi nutriment we are capable of 
supporting life for little more than a week. The Welsh 
fasting girl lived for eight days from the commencement of 
the time she was carefully watched. But so many circum- 
stances influence the amount of resistance which the body can 
exhibit, and make it vary so much, that no practical importance 
attaches to the theoretical limit of possible existence. 

One thing which remarkably prolongs the duration of life 
is a supply of water. Dogs famished with as much as they 
wanted to drink were found by M. Chossat to live three times 
as long as those who were deprived of liquids and solids at the 
same time. Miners who have got shut up in damp headings 
have experienced much relief by getting moisture from the 
walls of their prison. Even wetting the skin with sea-water 
has been found useful by shipwrecked sailors. The fact is 
water is a food, necessary to the building up of the body, and 
I think a great mistake is made when we caution the underfed 
against a free use of it. And, moreover, water prevents that 
concentration of the circulating fluid which impedes absorp- 
tion, and which is a serious hastener of fatal results in those 
who have not enough to eat. 

Though, as was before noticed, a certain amount of fiit on 
the body does not prevent the blood from being impoverished, 
and by its impoverishment leading to injurious results, yet fat 
is a considerable protection against starvation. The old tale 
of the pig which was buried by the fall of a cliff at Dover, and 
was dug out alive after 160 days, as recorded by Mr. Mantell, 
the naturalist, sixty years since in the * Transactions of the 
Linnean Society ' (vol. xi.), is a standing case to cite. The 
loss of substance, amounting to three quarters of the entire 



206 I^IET IN UEALXn. 

animal, is probably an exaggeration, as the weight previotis to 
the imprisonment is estimated by gaess ; bnt still the dnration 
of the starvation, palliated only by the moistore which oozed 
through the sides of the sty, is yery remarkable, and may 
certainly be taken as evidonce of the protection afforded by 
the adipose tissue. 

life can be supported by a very minute quantity of food 
as long as complete inactivity of body is maintained. But 
under such circumstances the slightest exertion will bring on 
a fatal result. I attended for a long time a surgeon whose 
power of swallowing was completely lost by cancer of the 
oesophagus. He was cheerful and happy as long as he lay in 
bed, but at last during my absence from London, he thought 
a trip to Qreenwich in a steamer would be an agreeable 
change, and died immediately after the exertion. 

An even elevated temperature and the exclusion of the 
sun's rays, as in the ' dim religious light * of a closed bedroom, 
will enable life to go on slowly for a marvellous period ; as in 
the case of ecstatics, fasters, hysterical and insane persons. 
But if these are suddenly routed out, mentally excited, and 
forced to live like other people without due preparation, they 
die in spite of the soundness of all their organs. It is the 
same with convalescents from acute fevers, if they are inju- 
diciously roused to mental or bodily activity. 

Sex seems to have no appreciable influence on resistance 
to deficient diet. But it is not so with age. It is an observa- 
tion of the rough old times when famine was of tener seen (and 
therefore we may trust Hippocrates)* that the younger a 
human being is, the easier is it starved, till we come to 
extreme old age, when the powers of life are considered by 
some physiologists, Celsns among the number, to give way 
quicker under famine than those of middle-aged men. How- 
ever, there is no difference of opinion as to its effect upon 

* Aphorism xiii. Hippocrates does not define who are the yipovm^ who 
he says bear starvation best ; but as an Ionian he would probably include 
all over 46. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTINa. 207 

children. Very large is the niunber of victims to this lair of* 
nature, and Malthnsian optimists may admire its equity in 
balancing population and food. Nevertheless, so long as wide 
tracts of the earth lie uncultivated, we may not imprudently 
suspend its operation as much as we can. Dispensary and 
parochial practitioners are sadly familiar with a mass of* 
infantile sickness and death which they classify on paper to a 
certain extent, under heads prescribed by the Nomenclature of 
Disease, but which appeals to their hearts by its real terrible- 
name * Starvation.' Europe is deeply indebted to M. Parrot for 
the bold outlines with which (in the * Archives de Physiologic *" 
for 1868) he sketches the condition in which an innumerable 
army of speechless martyrs are found in the great centres or 
civilisation. 

' In these little creatures,' he says, • we see the functions 
growing weaker and weaker with extreme rapidity, though in 
a gradual manner. The temperature, often lower in the 
interior of the body than in the axillsB, falls below 92^ 
(Fahr.) and is never above 95°. (We all know what * blood- 
heat' is). Usually not more than 90 beats in a minute can 
be counted in the pulse ; once the number was over 100, in 
another case it was below 64. The respiratory movements 
were less frequent than in the normal state and often very 
weak. The cries, which in some were at first intense and 
prolonged, ceased little by little. The secretions, always- 
scanty, ended by disappearing ; more than once the napkins 
put on in the morning were taken off in the evening unsoiled 
and dry. The skin, rigid, dry and cold, often oozed out a 
serous fluid, especially in the dependent parts of the body. 
Motionless in their cradles, icy cold, with the face livid and' 
drawn, as if they were mummied, these still living babies 
looked like corpses. The beating of the heart could not be- 
heard, and were it not for an occasional movement of the- 
breath at long intervals, it would have been thought that a 
body some time dead lay under the eyes. In very truth, death 
had abeady taken possession, slowly indeed, and as it were 



•208 DIET IN HEALTH. 

molecule by molecnle, bnt with a sure and fatal grasp. • . 
The death of these children is dne to starvation ; and the 
•diseased appearances revealed by a postmortem examination, 
rshonld be looked at not as the cause of the malady, but as its 
inevitable consequences.' 

A common symptom, in children, of a diet deficient in 
nutriment is diarrhoea. It assumes, when severe, the dysen. 
teric type, streaks of blood appearing in the light green, 
mucous evacuations. And so it gets entered in the register 
-as ' dysentery ' or ' inflammation of the bowels * or ' enteritis.' 
But it does not appear to be contagious or epidemic, like the 
•dysentery of camps; and in hard times may be observed 
'f^onfined to the children of a district, to the children in arms 
even, according to the mode in which the pressure of scarcity 
falls on the population. 

Yet the sufferers are probably neither deliberately, nor 
<;ompletely, perhaps not even knowingly, deprived of nutri- 
ment — Evil is wrought 

By want of thought, 
As much as by want of heart. 

Ask what they are fed upon, and compare it with what 
rational experience prescribes, controlled by the universally 
spread teachings of physiology, and you will see immediately 
that the dietary errs in not containing the essentials of exist- 
-ence. The food is not, strictly speaking, unwholesome, but it 
errs by defect. It is not food at all. Reference to Chapters 
I. and II. ' makes this clear. It is there pointed out what 
<jhildren should eat, and everything else is what they sJiouJd not 
Not only youth, but health and vigour render the body 
less tolerant of abstinence. Invalids bear it better than strong 
people, with a few special exceptions. Such of us as have 
passed middle life cannot but remember, during the old reign 
of depletion and restriction, when for fear of victualling the 
•disease they famished the patient, instances of the extreme 
itoughness of the human race. Among the sick, not the sound, 

> Pp. 129 and 139. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 209 

these instances are recollected. It is an act of mercy, when, 
in sieges, in shipwrecks, and snchlike disasters^ meat and 
drink are scarce, to supply those on the invalid list first and 
most bountifully — ^no doubt it is an act of mercy, and to the 
honour of mankind will probably always be done — but the 
physiologist must pronounce it highly imprudent and far from 
being conducive to final success ; for the vigorous and active, 
whose blood is circulated rapidly, and whose muscles are in 
constant movement, really sufier most, not only in feeling, but 
in their future health and strength. 

In order to preserve life as long as possible where sufficient 
food for subsistence cannot be obtained, our aims, then, should 
be to secure water, warmth, and complete inaction of the 
muscles. The direst fiimine does not necessarily exclude these 
preservatives, and in the more insidious scarcities whose 
effects are noticed chiefly in children, we can very often readily, 
get as much of them as we want. 

In the apportionment of a spare supply, the youngest 
should have the nearest approach to a full ration, the active 
men and women the next, and the invalids and aged the 
scantiest allowance. So is distributive justice best satisfied. 

It is a strange thing, and one which at first sounds para- 
doxical, that the supply of the stomach even from the 
substance of the individual body itself, should tend to prolong 
life. A case of starvation for twenty-two days in an open 
boat was recorded in the periodical prints last spring (April 
30 and May 1, 1874) in which the poor victims fought in 
their delirium, and one was severely wounded.* As the blood 
gushed out, he lapped it up ; and instead of suffering the fatal 
weakness which might have been expected from the haemor- 
rhage, he seems to have done well. I would not build much 
on the rough memories preserved during such awful suffer- 
ings, were it not for tibe support afforded by some experiments 
by a French physiologist, M. Anselmier, to whom the idea 

' Three men and two boys were out for 32 days with only 10 days' pro- 
visions, exclusive of old boots and jelly-fish. 



210 DIET IN HEALTH. 

occurred of trying to preserve the lives of some dogs by what 
he calls ' artificial antophagy.' Ho fed them on the blood 
taken from their own veins daily, and he found that the fatal 
coolin&f incident to starvation was thns postponed and the 
existence consequently prolonged. Life lasted till the emacia- 
tion had proceeded to y"^ of the weight, instead of -f^, as in 
Chossat*s experiments, and was extended to the fourteenth 
instead of the tenth day, which was its limit in those dogs 
who were not bled.* 

It is not likely that anybody will feel himself called npon 
to repeat M. Anselmier's dreadful experience, but no one of us 
who run to and fro in the earth is secure from the possibility 
of shipwreck, or being buried alive, say in a mine or railway 
cutting, and thus involuntarily contributing a self-sacrifice to 
that knowledge which may save the lives of others. For one 
fiimished crew that is picked up, there are found dozens of 
empty wrecks, of which it is never known how the once 
living freight fared ; and for each empty wreck there are 
dozens which have left no trace. The prolongation of life 
without provisions is by no means a mere speculative discus- 
sion. Were I in such a strait as above referred to, my 
reason would counsel me, and I hope I should have the courage 
to wound my veins and suck the blood. 

After starvation, either complete or partial, a sudden 
return to full diet is not to be attempted. Small quantities at 
a time of the most digestible food must be given. And the 
temperature should be artificially sustained till such time as 
the system is able to generate its own heat, especially in the 
interior of the body. Tablespoonfuls of hot beef tea and of 
milk,, constantly administered ('tea-cup diet '), form the most 
appropriate nutriment. And it will bo much assisted by 

^ Archives GSn. de Midedney 1860, vol. i. p. 109. M. Anselmier con- 
jectures that the formation of heat was due to the keeping up of a certain 
degree of activity in the gastro-intestinal absorption, and the consequent 
chemical action in the interior of the body, where it would not be lost by 
radiation. 



8TABVATI0N— POVERTY— FASTING. 211 

Udmixture with a small quantity of pepsine ; but not too mncli, 
or there is risk of diarrhcaa. 



JPoverty, 

The valuable calculations of Dr. Playfair, * On the food of 
man in relation to his useful work/ * enable us to arrive at a 
very practical estimate of what amount of solid victual is 
required by an adult living by bodily labour, to preserve his 
health under various circumstances. The circumstances 
which chiefly influence the required amount can be classified 

as follows : — 

1. Bare existence ; 

2. Moderate exercise ; 

3. Active work ; 

4. Hard work. 

1. The diet of bare existence — * subsistence diet' — is cal- 
culated from the mean of sundry prison diets, of the convales- 
cents' diet at hospitals, that of London needlewomen and of 
that supplied during the Lancashire cotton-famine, as reported 
by Mr. Simon. The result is that in a condition of low health 
without activity, 2^ ounces of nitrogenous matter (calculated 
dry), 1 ounce of fat, 12 ounces of starch and \ of an ounce of 
mineral matters jp&r diem are necessary. The contents in 
carbon are 7*44 ounces. This, being interpreted, means that a 
man will die gradually of starvation, unless his provision for a 
week contains three pounds of meat with a pound of fat on it 
or the same quantity of butter or lard, two quartern loaves of 
bread, and about an ounce of salt and other condiments. If 
he cannot get the meat, he must supply its place with, at least, 
two extra quartern loaves, or about a stone and a half of 
potatoes or between 5 and 6 pounds of oatmeal — unless, 
indeed, he is so fortunately situated as to be able to get 
skimmed milk, of which five pints a week will fairly replace 

' Lecture delivered at the Boyal Inetitutum, London, April 28, 1866, 
pabliflhed by EdmonBton and Douglas, Edinburgh. 

p2 



212 DIET IN HEALTH. 

the meat. Let it bo understood that all these articles must 
be good of tlicir sort, and contain no indigestible matter or 
adulterant. And there is no economy in sabstitating for real 
nutriment things which merely stay the hunger by occupying 
the stomach for a longer period. The completeness of the 
digestion is thus interfered with, and a morbid derangement of 
the function induced, which causes part of the food to be w^asted. 
A person brought to bare existence diet can undergo no 
toil, mental or bodily, under the penalty of breaking down. 

2. By moderate exercise is meant the equivalent of some — 
say from 5 to 7 miles — walking daily. Dr. Playfair takes as 
fairly representing the appropriate food of this class the dietaries 
of English, French, Prussian, and Austrian soldiers in a time 
of peace. The English soldier on home service, according to 
Dr. Parkes, receives from Government five pounds and a 
quarter of meat and seven pounds of bread weekly, and buys 
additional bread, vegetables, milk and groceries. Now, such 
a diet as this is amply suflBicient for anybody under ordinary 
circumstances of regular light occupation. But should extra 
demands be made upon mind or body, weight is lost, and, 
doubtless, if the demands continue to be made, the health 
would seriously sufier. Mr. Buckland, of the Guards, remarks 
(Soc. of Arts Journal, 1863, quoted by Dr. Playfair,) that 
though the sergeants fatten upon the rations, the quantity is 
not sufficient for recruits during their driUs. 

3. Active labourers are reckoned those who get through 
such an amount of work daily, exclusive of Sundays, as may 
be represented by a walk of twenty miles. Of this class are 
soldiers during a campaign, letter-carriers, engineers employed 
in field work or as artisans. These habitually consume on the 
average about a fifth more nitrogenous food and twice as 
much fat as the last class, while the quantity of hydrocarbons 
is not augmented, except in the Royal Engineers. 

4. Hard work means that which is got through by English 
navvies, hard- worked weavers, full-fed tailors and blacksmiths. 
It is difficult to get exact information, but it would appear 



STARVATION-rPOVERTY— FASTING. 213 

from Dr. Playfair's estimates that tHe addition to the diet is 
entirely in nitrogenous constituents. The higher their wages 
the more meat the men eat. 

This neglect of vegetables by the two last classes is in a 
physiological point of view imprudent, and possibly may be a 
contributing cause of that inordinate desire for alcohol which 
impoverishes and degrades them. The discovery of the pro- 
duction of force from the assimilations of starch leads to a 
knowledge, opposed indeed to old prejudices but supported by 
experience, that the raising of the energies to their full height 
of usefulness may be effected by vegetable food proportioned 
to the increase of requirement, quite as well as by the more 
stimulating and more expensive animal nutriment. 

Deficient diet, like all morbid conditions both corporeal 
and mental, is a vitiating and degenerating influence. Famine 
is naturally the mother of crimes and vices, not only of such 
sort as will satiate the gnawing desire for food, but of general 
violence and lawlessness, ill-temper, avarice, lust, and cruelty. 

The love of purposeless destruction exhibited by the 
Parisian communists in our own day may be fairly credited to 
deficient food. No well-fed people could have wrecked the 
Vend6me column or burnt the town-hall and Tuileries, of 
which they were so proud. They were like hungry children 
smashing their dolls. And Thucydides, Boccaccio, and Defoe 
are all agreed as to the hideous wickedness exhibited at 
Athens, Florence, and London, during their famine-fevers. 
The exceptional instances are those where individuals or 
nations have conquered by courage and self-restraint their 
natural selfishness, and have made the interests of others 
paramount to their own. Am I blinded by love of my country, 
or may I justly quote the history of the Lancashire cotton- 
famine as a case in point ? 

In all physiology there is no more convincing proof of the 
benevolent government of the universe and of its perfecting 
influence upon our race, than the fact that directly a man 
begins to care for others in preference to himself alone, his 



214 DIET IN HEALTH. 

care oeages to wear and exhaust him. It rather seems to he 
a snstaining force. Observe a lanatic, indaoed to work hard 
for some worthy object, he grows fiit ; let him sit still and 
brood over his wrongs, and he dies emaciated. Let a 
hypochondriac's wife or child fall ill, he is cheerful and weU 
directly ; hot he relapses as they become convalescent, and 
grows as thin and miserable as ever when he turns his atten- 
tion to his own health. This is the reason why in sieges and 
feunine medical men have often remained sleek and plomp, 
while their neighbours pined, and perhaps also why military 
officers bear short rations better than the men. Like all 
divine truths, ' to love your neighbour as yourself ' is found 
to be taught by material nature as well as by revelation.^ 

Fatting. 

Fasting is the voluntary restriction of the diet for the 
express purpose of developing the higher features of the mind. 
It is ' a means of grace,* and approved as such by religious 
men of most opposite creeds and diverse nationalities. 1 am 
not going to question their experience, and I should bow to it 
even if it differed from my own, which is not the case. Like 
all the material machinery by which the bodily man influences 
the spiritual man, this ' means to an end ' not only admits of, 
bfut requires frequently to be brought into harmony with, the 
progress of knowledge concerning physical life. And there- 
fore 1 think that in a manual of this sort mention of it should 
not be omitted. 

In the first place, to be useful, fasting must be wholly 
voluntary. If forcibly imposed even by imperious custom or 
enjoined as an end in itself, its principal effect is to sour the 
temper and narrow the intellectual apprehension for the time 

> Professor Maurice well remarks in the pre&ce to his yforal PhiIo9(yphy 
that the difference between revelation and discovery is shown by the words 
themselres to be very slight ; one is removing a veil, the other is removing 
a corer. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 215 

being. In fact its physiological action is a minor degree of 
starvation. 

To secure its being wholly voluntary, it should be private, 
as advised by the highest authority of all. 

At the same time that the act is voluntary, the manner of 
it is best prescribed by another. If the peculiar form and 
degree of abstinence are self-imposed, they are apt to be 
excessive, and to do harm without any corresponding advan- 
tage. 

One of the highest mental developments to be expected 
from fasting is the power of self-control by voluntary effort. 
If a man finds himself during a fast weakened in his ability 
to concentrate his thoughts and to keep up his attention, it is 
doing him no good. If the instinctive appetites, implanted 
by nature, fail after it, injury to the health and individual 
degeneration follow. For these reasons it is best that the 
matter on which abstinence is exercised should be rather a 
luxury than a necessary. It is quite safe for a healthy man 
to leave off tobacco, wine, or beer, spices and sauces, hot meat, 
or even meat altogether, or vegetables altogether (if vegetables 
are a luxury to him), or pastry, or sugar, or butter for a day 
or two at a time ; especially if he withdraws himself from the 
bustle of the daily occupations. But it is not wise to do this 
too frequently, or to let the low diet become habitual. Like 
all acts of free will, it is most powerful in its effects on the 
mind when rare, and when it presents the strongest contrast 
to the usual life. If once they become habits, the spiritual 
influence of acts ceases. 

Those who never feast will find a difficulty in advan- 
tageously fasting. 



217 



CHAPTEK X. 

THE DECLINE OP LIFE. 

Everybody who has passed the age of fifty (or thereabouts) 
"with a fairly imim paired constitution will act wisely in dimi- 
nishing his daily allowance of solid food. At the ^ grand 
climacteric ' (as this turn of life is pompously called) the 
movements of nutrition ai*e retarded, and the constructive and 
evacuating actions of the system being diminished, there is 
less call for materials of repair. It becomes a moral duty to 
avoid all articles of diet which personal experience has shown 
to be difficult of solution, to make smaller meals, and, if need 
be, more frequent meals, so that the stomach may be never 
overloaded or too long idle. The saving up an appetite for 
the enjoyment of an abundant repast may be conceded as a 
harmless folly in our juniors, but it is a shame to a grey head. 
If custom has made a man a large eater, he should endeavour 
to * spoil his dinner ' by a late luncheon, and to prevent his 
appetite being too keen at midday by break^ting not over 
early. 

Very aged people, however, and those who have lost their 
teeth run some risk of not being sufficiently nourished, from 
swallowing their food rapidly. They are hurried over their 
meals through the tJioughtlessness of those around them, and 
since they chew slowly and secrete saliva slowly, the food 
remains undigested. Their juniors should remember this, and 
govern themselves accordingly. A kindly British matron, 
who spent more hours at table than was good for her, told me 
that if she did not do so, she ' should be a widow in a week,' 



218 DIET IN HEALTH. 

and that she habitually ate too ranch to keep her aged hnsband 
in countenance. Not a word conld be said against such pious 
gluttony. 

The dishes of meat should be as soft and tender as possible, 
and the firmer kinds should be finely cut with a mincing 
knife. But vegetables should not be over-softened in cooking: 
there should be sufficient resistance in them to make chewing 
imperative, so as to excite the secretion of the fluids of the 
mouth, which are required for their solution. Sonps and 
broths are nutritious, but should not contain solid vegetables, 
except just enough to flavour them. Puddings and pastry are 
not of much use, and overload the tired stomach. 

I do not know the authority for the old proverb vinum lac 
senumj but it seems a very dangerous one, as it may lead our 
ancient friends to think they may treat it like mother's milk, 
and measure its benefits by the quantity imbibed. The saying 
however does partially embody a truth, namely — that in the 
decline of life the advantages derived from fermented liquors 
are more advantageous, and the injuries it inflicts less injurious 
than in youth. The effect of alcohol is to check the activity 
of destructive assimilation, the rapidity of that moulting of 
the body's substance by normal secretion which in healthy 
youth cannot be excessive, but which in old age exhausts the 
frame. Alcohol calmly arrests the energies of the nervous 
system which would fret the tissues to decay, and would 
seriously weaken them, were not the wear and tear to be 
continuouBly replaced by new material. Now, with years, the 
replacement by nutrition is much diminished, and we, never- 
theless, are apt to persist in using our brains as before. We 
shrink, rightly enough, from being shelved just when the 
rewards of our exertions are becoming due ; and we do not 
care to rival the centuries of the olive or the yew, unless we 
can, like them, ' renew our age ' and bear fruit unto the end. 
Here, then, alcohol steps in as a help in need, and it is strictly 
in accordance with the teachings of physiology to increase, as 
jears increase upon us, the moderate quantity we had been 



DECLINE OF UFE. 219 

taking previously. I do not write for habitual revellers and 
mnzzy dram-drinkers (tHe sooner they become teetotallers the 
longer they will live), but for the temperate users of natural 
good things, and I am sure that they may reasonably obey the 
instinctive desire to take more and stronger wine as they grow 
in years. 

The physiologist Moleschott, moreover, states that * a glass 
or two of good old wine augments the amount of gastric 
juice, the liquid which performs mainly the digestion of 
albuminous aliments.' ^ So that here we find another reason 
for indulging the instinct. 

Elderly people are able to do with less sleep than younkers, 
and need not be alarihed at a certain shortening of their 
night's rest which is natural. But sometimes the shortening 
goes too far, even in health ; they cannot get to sleep for a long 
time after going to bed, and are worn out with restlessness and 
rolling about — not to mention that they disturb others also in 
many instances. This inconvenience may often be obviated 
by having an egg, a sandwich, a few biscuits or other light 
repast the last thing, accompanied by a glass of bitter ale, or 
sound wine and water. Sweet, strong wines are those usually 
recommended for this purpose : Huf eland recommends Malaga ; 
and Burgundy or Port, warmed, spiced, diluted, and sweetened, 
is not a bad drink ; but probably the best for each individual is 
that which association or whim makes most agreeable to the 
palate. Some prefer gruel or arrowroot to be the vehicle of the 
alcohol, and it certainly dilates and distributes the virtues of 
the draught efficaciously, and also warms up the stomach 
comfortably; but it has a coddling invalidish look which 
should be avoided. 

Dr. Welsted considers that it contributes to length of days 
to associate as much as possible with young people, and to 
adopt such habits and manners as may attract rather than 
repel them, to which last there is a temptation in old age. 
And, of the young people, he holds, that the best companions 

' Kreislaufdes Lebens, letter 6. 



220 DIET IN HEALTH. 

are those whose spirits are high and joyous, and whom we can 
induce to rally round and infect us with their life. * For,* as 
he says, 'that solitude which is associated with fear and 
sorrow breaks up the strength of both mind and body.* 

It is almost needless to say that ease of mind, contentment 
with the present, and calm confidence in a future happy 
renewal of the worn-out body and soul, are specifics suitable 
for all cases. It is not hard work that kills the active, nor 
idleness that kills the man of leisure, be he old or young, but 
worry. * Be careful for nothing, the Lord is at hand * is a 
motto which will prolong the lives of all. 



221 



CHAPTER XI. 

ALCOHOL. 

§ 1. Physical Effects. 

Many a man has asked himself, like Horace, * Quo me, Bacche, 
rapis Tui plenum ? ' To what does the natural thirst for 
alcohol lead ? He sees around him disease, death, and misery 
directly traceable to the abuse ; but he sees also disease, death, 
and misery, arising from the abuse of other instinctive desires 
which it were profane to call evil. Is there a use ? What 
happens to a temperate consumer, likely to shorten or prolong 
his days ? Or does he merely gain a pleasure without any 
consequent good or evil ? 

It was with a view of getting a basis for the satisfaction of 
my mind on these points that about fifteen years ago I engaged 
a laboratory assistant, and carried on the following experi- 
ments : — 

Experiment I. — ^A. M. aged 38, weight 254 lbs. — taken at noon 
every day — ^Habits of life extremely regular. He walks half an hour 
before breakfast daily, breakfasts at eight on two cups of coffee, bread 
and butter, and a slice of cold meat : dines at one on beef and mutton 
in regular quantity, potatoes and pudding ; has tea at five, two cups 
with bread and butter ; sups at nine on bread and butter, or cheese, 
with half a pint of ale. He sleeps six and a half to seven hoiu^. His 
bowels are open once daily. An idea of the normal amount of meta- 
morphosis in his body is afforded by the following table : 



22S 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



Amount of 
urine and it8 
several part** 
made in 23 
days, in per- 
fect health 
and on u&ual 
diet 
Ditto in 16 days' 
Mean daily I 
amount . > 




24-970 



1-086 



Speciflc 
graylty 



Urea in 
grammes 



1-022 



1022 



Chloride of 
sodium in 
grammes 



728-437 



31-671 



174-626 



CO ^ 



51-307 



7-692 



2-230 






£ 



44-719 
1-944 



2-813 
-187 



The effect of the addition of a certain quantity of alcohol to the 
daily meal is shown by the next table : 



Date 



til 



Sep. 13 
14 



}} 



»» 



»f 



»» 



19 
20 
21 
22 



1,020 
1,570 

1,050 

1,200 

1,110 

770 



Specific 
gravity 



1-024 
1-022 

1-026 
1-025 
1-023 
1026 



•91 



i 



30-708 
39-746 

38-795 
42-695 
37-974 
30-030 



l|i 



7140 
10-990 

8-400 

9-eoo 

6-937 
6-160 



S-Sa 


l^i 


id in 
mes 


Sulph 

acid 

gram 


Phoep 

acid 

g^ram 


TJric ac 
gram 


2-017 


1-469 


2-579 


-848 


— 


2-466 


l-8!'0 




2-622 


1-944 




2-212 


1-798 


— 


2-065 


1-386 





Daily quantity 
of best French 
brandy, added 

to meals in ozs. 
by measure 



H 

3 
6, viz., 1| 
at break- 
fast, din- 
ner, tea 
and sup- 
per. 



On September 23, the appetite for food was observed to be some- 
what less than usual, and the experiment accordingly ceased ; for any 
change of usual weight, health, feeling, or habits, of course would 
vitiate the result of an investigation conducted in this form. 

Here are shown the effects of mixing vnth the daily meals 
snch an extra quantity of alcoholic liquid as is very usual 
with moderate consumers. Such a quantity seems to put 
them at ease with themselves and with the world around, 
vdthout causing any immediate injury to the general health, 
any untoward exhilaration or any subsequent depression. 

' On eight days the uric acid was not weighed. 



ALCOHOL. 923 

We may observe : — 

1. The aqueous part of the urme daily excreted is not in^ 
creased beyond the extent of the extra fluid injected, 

2. The quantity of urea is increased after the first twenty' 
four hours. 

3. The chloride of sodi/um amd the sulphates are slightly 
in Greased, 

4. The phosphates are diminished, 

5. The augmentation is temporary, and after a tvme is suC' 
ceeded by a reduction to the normal measv/re, which reduction is 
coincident with a loss of appetite. 

Alcohol, then, is not a diaretic in the commonly received 
acceptation of the term, and the repute which it has got of 
belonging to that class of medicines, must be due to some 
other ingredient of the compound forms in which it is usually 
swallowed, or to its relieving (in certain cases of diminished 
excretion) impediments to the due action of the kidneys. 

At the same time there is represented by the increased 
formation of urea, a more active destructive assimilation, and 
(in as much as the weight of the whole body is not lost) a 
more active reconstruction of the nitrogenous elements of the 
tissues. Old flesh is removed, and meat food is appropriated 
as new flesh, somewhat quicker than when no alcohol is 
taken. 

It is a matter of common observation that the appetite of 
an average healthy man has a keener edge put to it by a 
moderate quantity of beer or wine with meals. So that the 
above-mentioned enhancement of the interstitial growth may 
be fairly credited to a temporary rise of the digestive powers 
of the stomach. 

The decrease in the excretion of phosphorus is small indeed 
but indubitable. The chief source of that ingredient of the 
urine may be reasonably supposed to be the substance of the 
brain and nerves, and it can hardly be thought a mere coin- 
cidence when a re-agent whose effects are most peculiarly 
manifest on the functions of those organs, diminifihes what 



224 DIET IN HEALTH. 

-we bclicTO to be tho rcsalt of their chemical changes. Every- 
one recognises in alcohol a power of blnnting sorrow and 
pain, of checking the sensation of weariness, mental or bodilj, 
of rendering carnal love coarser, less keen, and less discrimi- 
nating, taking tho points off the stings and bnffets, discomforts 
and nastiness of daily life, bnt also of cormpting the delicate 
appreciation of its higher delights, in short, of dindnishing 
tho sensibility to impressions "in mind and body, of lowering 
the receptive functions of the nervous system. 

In a series^of experiments conducted for another object, 
Dr. Edward Smith has recorded minutely the sensations ex- 
perienced by a healthy man on taking moderate quantities of 
brandy.' They consist essentially of lessened consciousness, 
lessened sensibility to light, to sound, to touch. The higher the 
sensibility of the part under ordinary circumstances, the more 
obvious its anaesthesia under the influence of brandy. For 
instance, there was in the upper lip and cheeks a feeling of 
stiffness and puffishness, which is one of the first symptoms 
of lowered sensation, and is familiar to all in cases of partial 
paralysis. The dartos also and other muscles C/Onnected with 
the reproductive system were relaxed ; as was also the sphincter 
of the bladder, accounting for the increased micturition during 
indulgence. The pulse also was quickened, a phenomenon 
which always attends temporary debility of the heart's action. 
Indeed, in all motion of a purely involuntary character, quick- 
ness always indicates diminished muscular force. (The same 
result follows tobacco smoking.) The sensation of swelling in 
the upper lip is the premonitory stage of the muddy flush by 
which the artist and the actor mark the face of the * fuddled ' 
man (ebriolus). When he is completely intoxicated {ebrius)^ 
it is oftener pale or livid. The venous congestion and 
arrested circulation is then transferred to the capillaries of 
the cerebellum, (Flourens^), and stomach (Brodie^), and a 

• Transactions of Boyal Society, 1859, p. 732. 

• Bccherches sur les fonctions du systkme ncrueux, Paris, 1824. 

• Philosophical Transactions , 1811. 



, ■ •* ■ V; ■ ••• 
ALCOHOL. ' ' ■ 225 

• ■ 

secondary series of phenomena foUpw, dependent upon the 

local affection of these organs. There is a staggering gait, a 

want of co-ordination in the movements, and often vomiting. 

Life and warmth are so closely connected together in 
scientific as well as in popular notions, that perhaps the most 
striking evidence of diminished vitality is the lessened capa- 
bility to generate heat. And we have this evidence in the 
case of alcohol. MM. Dnmeril and Demarqnay published in 
1848 their observation, that intoxicated dogs exhibited a great 
loss of temperature ; and Dr. Boecker * and Dr. Hanmiond find 
in their own persons the same result from even moderate doses 
of spirits. This accords with and explains the experience of 
Dr. Bae, that alcoholic drinks give no satisfaction to Arctic 
voyagers, and of Dr. Hayes (Surgeon and Conmiander in 
U.S. second Grinnell Expedition), that they actually lessen 
the power of resisting cold.* The * warming of the stomach ' 
which dram-drinkers speak of with such gusto is, in fact, 
a fallacious sensation arising out of insensibility to external 
influences. 

When the poisoning is still more profound, the congestion 
of the nervous centres produces comple:ke apoplexy, and that 
of the stomach, gastritis. The traces of these morbid condi- 
tions are found after death, but the loss of life seems due to 
the paralysis of the respiratory muscles and the lowered 
temperature of the body. I am unwilling to enlarge further 
upon dead drunkenness and fatal alcoholic poisoning, as I have 
no personal observations on the subject to record, and their 
commonly reported characteristics are repeated here princi- 
pally to show their essential agreement in physiological nature 
with the healthful and beneficial, or, at all events, not per- 
nicious action of the substance. The effects in a healthy man 
would seem to be the diminution of the energizing wear of 
the nervous system, especially that employed in emotion and 
sensation. Thence there ensues a raising of the digestive 

1 Beitrage zur Hleilkunde, i. 250. 

* American Journal of the Medical Sciences^ 1859, p. 117. 

Q 



./ 



226 DIET IN HEALTH. 

powers and appetite, should they have been anywise uncon- 
scioasly bl anted by the ps^'chical movements above men- 
tioned. Jnst as often, then, as the zest for food is so &r 
lowered, that it is fonnd to be raised to the normal standard 
by a little wine or beer with a meal, the moderate drinker is 
as mnch really better, as he feels the better, for his liqnor. 
In eases, however, where the food is as keenly enjoyed 
without the aid of any of the products of fermentation, their 
consumption is certainly useless, and possibly injurious. So 
long as alcohol, in the indirect mode mentioned, augments 
vital metamorphosis, it ministers to the foroe of the body. 
But it is not a source of force, and its direct action is an arrest 
of vitality. This should be clearly understood by all those 
who try to have rational rules to guide them in proffering 
advice as to the dietetic use of a 'stimulant.' That word 
means a * spur,' and inasmuch as a spur is employed either 
before or during the exertion it is supposed to bear upon, 
liquor is often resorted to as a means of invigorating a 
temporary effort. If it has any effect at all on a healthy man, 
it can but weaken nerve power, while at the same timie it 
lowers the bodily temperature which contributes much to the 
capacity for muscular exertion. Instinct or experience has 
taught this to men whom we are pleased to call barbarous. 
The Indian porters in South America (it is stated by Mr. 
Salvin, the ornithologist), when they prepare for a stiff journey 
under one of their heavy loads, carefully eschew all strong 
drink, and swallow large quantities of water as hot as the 
stomach will bear. And Aristotle states that the Cartha- 
ginians (the only African race ever fit to fight with Euro- 
peans) used when out on military service to abstain from 
wine.* The unhappy adoption of the word * stimulant' has 

' Aristotle, (Econom. i. 5. I have not seen this statement alluded to 
by historians, though it seems to account for the enormous quantity of 
vinegar which Liyy/ound no difficulty in belieTing Hannibal had in his com- 
missariat and used for decomposing Alpine rocks (Liv. zxi. 37). It was 
made tasty with pears (PaUad. in Febrtmr, zxv. 11), and employed to 
flavour the soldiers' drinking water. 



ALCOHOL. 2271 

demoralised tHe notions of civilised communities >oa this head,- 
and led them to reckon on priming themselves np to unwonted, 
strength with ansesthetics. Let them rather say with Byron'^ 
Sardanapalns, * The goblet I reserve for hours of love, But. 
war on water/ and victory will be much surer. There is^ 
however, another aspect to the question. Man must be viewed 
not only as a possible victor, but as liable to the reversek 
fortune, on the battle-field or in the struggles of life. Both 
sides cannot win. During the Crimean war the Bussian 
surgeons were reviled for serving out spirits to .their troops- 
under fire; but were they not wise to calculate^ the after 
consequences of an engagement, and to prepare the bodies ^f 
their clients for successfully bearing blows and wounds ? 
* They have stricken me and I knew it not,' says>f Solomon* Sc 
drunkard; and our accident ward at Christmas, time will 
seldom fail to show proof of the power to resist sever© injuries 
conferred by unwonted indulgence in the joys of Bacchus. A 
healthy man who gets the worst of it in any way, whose 
.intellectual or muscular energy goes down under the pressure 
of the work demanded, gets the worst of it in a less degree 
by the aid of strong drink. Give it him when ready to perish 
from the drain on his nerve tissues, and his life is saved. The 
labourer whose limbs are stiff with his day's toil,' and the 
brain-worker who still more acutely feels the wear and tear of 
bread winning, are not wasting the money they earn, which 
they spend on a feir ration of beer or wine ajj their evening 
meal. But if they take spirits of a morning (it is usually 
spirits which are then taken), never let them hope for the 
success in the undertakings for whioh they seemed designed. 
Both body and mind will be incapacitated, the hfe shortened, 
and all the keenest joys taken out of what remains. One of 
the most telling questions that can be asked of a life proposed 
for insurance is, * Do you ever take spirituous liquors in the 
forenoon ? ' If the answer is. in the affirmative, an immediate 
rejection is the only safe course for the office. As to small 
quantities of beer or wine that are consumed between breakfietst 

q2 



228 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



and the midday meal, the evidenoe against it is not quite so 
decisive, l>nt, at all events, it renders a man less fit for his 
daily work than he would otherwise be, and is a dangerous 
downward movement towards the abyss of dram-drinking. It 
will generally be found to have been the first fatal step in the 
cases of women of the upper classes who have adopted the 
practice. And, to the shame of our profession, it must be con- 
fessed that many of us have erred most unhappily by recom- 
mending or sanctioning the habit in weakly or self-indulgent 
women. The weaker they are in body or mind, the more 
helpless they are, and the more hysterical, the more reason 
there is for withholding the temptation. We must be proof 
against tears and sighs, blandishments, entreaties, and re- 
proaches, or we are not fit to bear the rod of ^sculapius. 

See what happens if, instead of being drunk with the 
meals, alcohol is taken in small divided doses : — 

Experiment 11, — The same man described in SSxperiment I. at 
another time consumed daily, between 9 a.h. and 9 p.m., six ounces of 
brandy in doses of half an ounce every hour. No. effect was produced 
on the general health and feelings, and the usual employments were 

followed except on the last day of the experiment, when M was 

bustling about in a great state of excitement, packing up to leave for 
a country holiday. 

The analysis of the urine was as follows:: — 



Date 



August 18 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 






1,520 
910 
1,070 
1,000 
1,310 
1,530 



Spedflc 
gravity 



1-013 
1*026 
1-022 
1-021 
1016 
1-021 




30-465 
33-077 
32-946 
23-735 
25-097 
41-867 



S-9 8 

ill 



6-320 
6-370 
6-687 
6-750 
7-205 
9-946 




21210 
2-375 
2-246 

1-897 
1-649 
3-064 






1-299 
1-474 

1-637 
•1-440 
1061 
2-203 



I 



a 



|& 



•008 
•269 
•193 
•136 
-196 
-390 



One day was an interval in the experiment, and only the usual 
amount of daily diet, without extra alcohol, was taken, when the 
numbers stand as follows : — 



ALCOHOL. 



229* 



Date 



August 19 



^i 



t 



'SB 

o 

O 



920 



Specific 
gravity 



1-026 



35-88 




5-750 i 




2-374 




1-904 







•281 



It is very clear from these observations that alcohol taken 
in the dram-drinking fashion — ^namely, in small divided dose& — 
by no means increases metamorphosis. It rather tends to 
diminish it, so that dnring the first five days qnoted the mean 
quantity of urea excreted is 29*063 instead of 31*671 granmies. 
And this diminution is not sndden or immediate, but is more 
and more for a certain period, till the retention reaches a 
point at which a critical evacuation takes place in healthy 
persons. 

This evacuation may take place in consequence of the 
alcohol being left off",, as may be observed on the day of 
interval. Or agfiin it may result from increased exertions and 
unwonted expenditure of nervous energy, as may be noticed 
in the last dJay of the experiment. In neither case does the 
amount, even of the urea, replace the amount arrested during 
the days of arrest ; and the phosphates are still less unable to 
make up their lost figures in the ledger. 

It cannot be concealed' then, that even without at all 
infringing on high health, alcohol in small divided, doses and 
between meals, dram-drinker's fashion, deranges the meta- 
morphosis of the tissues, and in the direction of arrest. And 
persistence in the habit must lead in the end to permanently 
diminished organisation, degeneration, atrophy. Just as a dis- 
used limb wastes away, so must the unrenewed tissues die 
off gradually, till they become unequal to the support of a 
healthy man's existence. 

The first action of alcohol, then, is on. the stomach, 
enabling more food to be digested, and enhancing the origina- 
tion of force. But if advantage be not taken of this first 



230 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



action, its Becondaiy effect is a diminntion of the vital func- 
tions in general and of digestion among their number. 

It might be* suggested that the subject of the experiments 
was so little used to stimulants that an abnormal effect m.ight 
be produced upon him by them, but that is rendered unlikely 
by the succeeding observation on a person whose habits may 
be described as closely verging on * full living ' : — 

JEjrperiment III, — C aged 43, healthy, though not muscularly 

robust, of regular life and habits, took daily during the days named in 
the table a quantity of food proportioned to appetite, viz., about a 
pound and a half of meat, half a pound of bread, a pint and a half of 
tea, with milk, sugar, butter, sauces, &c., q, «., half a pint of water, 
and from five to seven glasses of port or sherry,^ care being always 
taken not to annoy the temper, and so nullify the experiments^ by 
overstrictness. 



Amount of urine 
and of its 
several parts, 
made in 15 
days in per- 
fect ■ rhealth 
and on usual 
diet . 
Ditto in 14day8« 
Mean daily ) 
amount . \ 



Qro 



18,800 



1,253 



Spedflc 
gravity 



TJreatn 
granuzies 






1-022 



1022 



493-852 



32-923 



Chloride of 
sodium in 
grammes 



137-655 
9-177 







26-487 
1-891 



27-683 
1-977 






3-839 
•274 



The effect of taking in addition, between meals, a moderate quantity 
of alcohol in divided doses, is shown in the foUowing table :- 



^ Which may be reckoned to contain from 33 to 35 per cent, of proof 
spirit. 

* Of one day the record was imperfect, the sulphuric acid, phosphoric 
acid, and uric acid not having been weighed. 



ALCOHOL. 



231 



Date 



Nov. 



u 



>» 



Dec. 



>» 



>» 



>i 



16 

19 

22 

23 

3 

5 

6 

17 



S6 

111 
as 



1,180 
1,800 
1,150 
980 
1,060 
1,320 
1,110 
1,180 



Specific 
gravity 



1-021 
1-013 
1-025 
1025 
1023 
1019 
1021 
1-020 



30090 
28-854 
32-775 
27-930 
28-620 
30-875 
30-026 
30-208 




11-210 
9-900 

12076 
9-310 
9-540 
9-900 
9*435 
9-440 



fag 

OQ 



& 



1-954 
1-906 



1-785 
1-865 
1-713 
1-586 



•g 



fi 



s 



& 



1-770 
1-800 



1-696 
1-980 
1-665 
1-652 



trace 
258 



•339 
•330 
•299 
•343 



Daily quantity 

of best French 

brandy taken 

between meals 



3^ fld. ozs. 
8 

74 
3 

8 

8 

4 



It is very clear from these figures that vital metamorphosis, as evi- 
denced by the amount of the principal solids of the urine, is diminished 
by thus taking more alcohol than the healthy instinct prompts, even 
in a person used to the full quantity that temperance permits. Not 
only are the whole mean amounts low, but on no day do they come 
up to the average. The only exceptions are the chloride of sodium, 
which is slightly increased, by what agency I cannot tell, and the uric 
acid, whose augmentation is, probably with justice, considered an 
indication of an approaching abnormal state. It may be remarked 
that a greater quantity of brandy than that recorded above spoiled the 
appetite and prevented the usual diet being taken with pleasure. I 
considered that thiq. would nullify the experiments as representing the 
effects of alcohol in health, for it placed the body in an abnormal 
state, and I therefore discontinued them for a time. 

The only marked effect of the quantity taken on the full 
days, was a certain degree of insensibility of the facial skin to 
changes of temperature ; the fire did not scorch, and the east 
wind did not chill. So that probably some temporary power 
of resistance to external inflnences was gained, to be followed 
by reactionary sensitiveness. 

Let ns observe now the effects of spiritnons liqnors taken 
in great excess, namely in quantity sufficient to destroy the 
natural sensitiveness to mental emotion : — 

Experiment IV, — Letitia , a healthy prostitute aged 23, acquired 

the habit, during a year of her being on the town, of frequent tippling 
to drown care. Standing by her bed at home on August 14, she 
suddenly fell on it, not losing her senses, but having complete igaralYe>\& 



V. 



232 



DIST IN H£ALTH. 



of the right leg and arm, without • fit. On her admission to a Itoepitel 
two days afterwards, the power had returned in a great measuif to 
the limbs, but the right lingual and facial muscles wove still quite 
paralytic. As fieur as one could judge by external phenomena, aU the 
viscera except the brain were in a healthy state, and she showed no 
signs of hysterics. She stayed in the hospital till September 6, when 
she was offered a place as servant, and a slight impediment to speech 
remaining I considered not sufficient reason for her passing over so good 
a chance of bettering her social state. During the time she was under 
observation no drugs were prescribed for her; she lay on her bed 
the greater part of the day, and sauntered about the ward and garden 
the rest ; she was kept on broth diet,^ and on and after August 30, 
three ounces of brandy were allowed daily. The amount of urine and 
of its chief constituents excreted by her on all the days when circum- 
stances allowed it to be all collected, is shown in this table : — 



Date 


Quantity 
Ui cubic 
centi- 
metres 


Specific 
gravity 


Urea in 
grammes 


Chloride of 

sodinmin 

grammes 


Snlphnric 

acid in 
grammes 


Phosphoric 

acid in 
grammes 


August 


17 . 


252 


1018 


6-916 


1-389 


? 


•409 


)* 


19 . 


880 


1006 


12-729 


4-400 


? 


•396 


11 


20 . 


240 


1014 


4-629 


2040 


? 


none 


11 


^l . 


270 


1-007 


3-429 


•337 


-206 


-061 


11 


22 . 


360 


1011 


6-280 


2-340 


-212 


a trace 


11 


23 . 


1,000 


1-007 


16-363 


3-600 


•871 


-640 


11 


24 . 


1,280 


1-007 


14-504 


4-480 


-715 


a trace 


11 


27 . 


670 


1008 


9-405 


1-425 


-436 


a trace 


11 


28 . 


1,030 


1-007 


10-979 


3-862 


•696 


•404 


ti 


29 . 


730 


1-010 


9-252 


3-285 


-423 


a trace 


»» 


30 . 


1,320 


1-008 


13-645 


6-120 


1-039 


? 


Sept 


1 . 














11 
11 


2 . 

3 . 


1,660 


1008 


22027 


1-358 


7-425 « 


? 

• 


11 
11 


4 . 
6 . 


900 


1-010 


13-231 


2-925 


-790 


•162 



The metamorpliic organs of this girl were clearly in a 
most periloTis condition. So little pliosphoms was excreted 

* Tea, 2 pints, with 3 ozs. of milk, and sugar q.s. Bread, 12 ozs. ; but- 
ter, I oz. ; broth, 1 pint with 4 ozs. of boiled meat ; gruel, 1 pint. 

* There was a suspicion that on this day the patient had surreptitiously 
taken a dose of Epsom salts. On the next two days the catamenia were 
present for a short time as in anaemic women. 



■ ■ .. • - 

i ■« • » ■ 



^ ALCOHOL. 233 

that the nervous system can have been hardly renewed at all. 
SoitMrfdmes not more than a tenth, generally about a third, and 
occasionally half, of the due proportion of urea appeared in the 
urine. When as much as haK of the proper quantity of urea 
was formed, there was an extraordinary gush of the aqueous 
constituent aceompanying it. But at other times the total 
bulk of the renal discharge was very deficient. The habits 
of the urinary department in the patient's economy closely 
approach to those which we find in that peculiar metamorphic 
(or fiinctional) disease of the nervous system, the various 
symptoms of which we roughly class as * hysteria.' K her 
family had been cursed with the damnoaa hereditas of that 
disease, she would most probably now have developed it. 
Sydenham shrewdly observes that if there is any difficulty in 
coming to the diagnosis between hysteria and other possible 
causes of ailment in a particular case, two questions answered 
affirmatively are enough to decide in favour of the former, viz. 
* Do weariness and worry especially excite the symptoms ?' 
and ' Does the patient make sometimes an unusual quantity 
of pale urine ? ' ^ — an instance thus of how 

Old experience doth attain 

To something of prophetic vein ; 

for those are the very hooks on which the most advanced 
science of the present day would hang all the pathology of 
hysteria. For it holds it to be — 1. A. disease of the nervous 
system ; 2. A disease of an exhausted nervous system ; and, 3. 
A disease in which an exhausted nervous system fails to com- 
plete the evacuation of the debris of metamorphosis — the very 
points made in Sydenham's aid to diagnosis. 

In the following instance alcohol, acting on a predisposed 
person, produced marked hysteria, and was identified as the 
guilty agent by the disease ceasing on its being left off: — A 
clergyman's wife, of a refined sensitive nature, became sub- 
ject to attacks of nervous sobbing and depression of spirits, 

> Sydenham, Dissert Epistol. de Affectione Ht/stericd, sec. 78. 



234 DIET IN HEALTH. 

especially during changeable weather. She also firequentlj 
Yomited her food immediately it was swallowed, and at last 
entirely lost the tone of her voice, being nnable to speak above 
a whisper when under the excitement of a consultation with 
her physician ; but yet she had a brazen-faced repellent kind 
of manner which Sat very oddly on a really modest Christian 
lady. Long and ingeniously did she elude the discovery that 
she was given to secret dram-drinking, but was at last per- 
suaded to place herself under the care of a kind Quaker 
couple, who saw that she had no intoxicating liquor for two 
months. All the aphonia, vomiting, and other hysterical 
symptoms went away during this time, and it is believed have 
not returned. Such is the most usual effect produced on a 
woman, previously healthy, by firequent small doses of 
alcohol. She becomes hysterical; but rarely does she get 
delirium tremens from it alone. " That form of nervous tornado 
attacks the female sex only in old age, when the feminine 
characteristics are annulled, or in consequence of intense 
mental excitement. But when it does attack them, tbey are 
very apt to sink under it. (As e.g. an upper housemaid at a 
large hotel, falsely accused of theft, died under my care at St. 
Mary's in two days of furious delirium tremens. Her boxes 
were filled with empty brandy bottles, though she had 
never shown signs of drinking.) In man delirium, tremens 
is much more readily induced, and hysteria only exception- 
ally. It is not necessary to do more than allude to the 
well-known deficiency of both the watery constituent and 
the phosphatic salts of the renal secretion in these cases 
during the violence of the disorder, as that point has been 
ably illustrated by Dr. Bence Jones in his paper on the sub- 
ject.^ But it is worth while to draw attention to the fact, 
that exactly contemporaneous with a restoration of health 
is the reappearance in the urine of the phosphates in his third 
case. It is possible that the delirium may be a clearing 
storm, the consequence of which is a return to the normal 

' Med, Chir. Transactions ^ vol. xxx. p. 21. 



ALCOHOL. 235 

state of phospHatic metamorphosis sooner than happens in 
cases where the delirium does not occur. For it may be 
observed in Experiment III. in this chapter, where there was 
no critical paroxysm, that the phosphates remain almost wholly 
absent from the analysis, in spite of apparently recovered 
health. And this accords with the familiar fact that hysteria 
is a mnch more obstinate disease than paroxysmal alcoholism. 

Allusion has been made to the use of alcohol as a protec- 
tion, in cases of traumatic injury and mental exhaustion, 
against the pernicious over-activity of the nervous system. 
And it is possible, too, that it may oppose the entrance ot 
morbid and other poisons by retarding absorption, as is 
indicated in its popular reputation as a preservative against 
Imalaria and noxious fumes. But if it has failed in its mission, 
if the wound, or the worry, or the virus have been too strong 
for their force to be broken by such a buffer, then there seems 
some doubt whether the patient is, or is not, worse off for 
having taken it. Just as after an operation under anessthetics 
there may in some cases be a similar doubt. But an habitual 
tippler, as distinguished from an occasional exceeder, is certainly 
in more danger from disease than a temperate man under the 
same circumstances. The venerable Dr. Christison, in a letter 
dated 1870, writes : — * How can we ever hope to express 
numerically the influence of drunkenness (habitual) in aggra- 
vating the mortality from fevers, cholera, dysentery, and 
other zymotics ? . . . . Let me conclude with one illustrative 
fact.^ I I have had a fearful amount of experience of con- 
tiuued fever in our infirmary during many an epidemic, and 
in all my experience I have only once known an intemperate 
man of forty or upwards recover. He was the exceptio quae 
probat regula/m.^ * 

The action of alcoholic drinks upon the internal viscera 
seems to be an immediate, and if continued, an habitual 
paralysis of the vaso-raotor nerves ; as may be seen by the 

* Second Annual Report of the State Board of Health of Massachusetts^ 
Jan. 1871, p. 339. 



236 DIET IN HEALTH. 

naked eye in the flashed &M3e of the dnmkard. Yenons con- 
gestion follows, and the glandular strnctnre becomes loaded 
with black devitalised blood. The presence also of the 
alcohol in the blood farther diminishes the rapidity of nutri- 
tion and disintegration, and consequently diminishes the 
dependent functions of elimination and calorification, and as 
long as it remains in the body.^ 

Secretion is retarded, and the organic material which 
ought to form it, grows into a semi-organic morbid tissue, 
bloodless, insensitive, useless, which we call cirrhosis. This 
gradually dries up and shrinks, like a scar, and thus puckers 
up the gland it is in, forming * nutmeg ' liver, ' granular ' 
kidney, * fibrosis ' and * chronic condensation ' of lung, thicken- 
ing of the mucous membranes in larynx and elsewhere, and 
arterial degeneration. 

In the case of the liver no pathologists ever seem to have 
expressed a doubt as to the influence of alcohol upon it ; but 
in regard to the kidneys there has been a controversy as to 
whether the prevalence of Bright's disease among the working 
classes should not rather be attributed to their exposure to 
weather : and Dr. Dickinson, of St. George's Hospital, has con- 
tributed somewhat to relieve alcohol of exclusive responsibility. 
He compares numerically the frequency of renal degeneration 
in the bodies of a class especially open to the temptation of 
excess — consisting of pot-boys, publicans, spirit-dealers, cellar- 
men, waiters, &c. — with what was found by post-mortem 
examination in an equal number of other hospital patients of 
various occupations. The kidneys were reported free from 
disease in almost exactly the same number of the two classes.* 
Now the principal flaw in this argument is that many of those 
whose trade is among spirits are nevertheless very temperate 
persons, (my own wine merchant takes only a glass of 

* Dr. U. S. Davis, in the Chicago Medical Examiner^ Sept. 1867, brings 
evidence from sphygmographic observations as to the depressing influence 
of alcohol upon the circulation. 

* Med. Chir. Transactions^ vol. Ivi. p. 61 (1873). 



ALCOHOL. 237 

currant wine with his dinner) ; and ' barmaids ' and * waiters,' 
included in the black list, are only exceptionally intemperate. 
And we must add to this that several of the employments of 
the other class are really more likely to lead to tippling than 
the trade in alcohol is. (Who, for example, ever knew a 
* traveller ' who was not obliged to liquor with his customers, 
as part of his daily work?) Dr. Dickinson rightly points 
out that the non-alcoholic class are much more exposed to the 
weather than the others, and this noxious influence, balancing 
to an unknown degree the influence of alcohol, vitiates the 
value of the statistics. The only fairly reckoned non-alcoholic 
persons are total abstainers, who now are to be found in con- 
siderable numbers, and might be compared justly with the rest 
of the population. While I think Dr. Dickinson to be right in 
his general conclusions, as also in attributing greater importance 
than some others do to climatic influences in renal degenera- 
tion, I do not consider that his statistics bear him out. They 
are too raw. At present, it seems to me that the physiological 
knowledge which we possess of the influence of alcohol in 
health is a more accurate guide to its morbid consequences 
than any statistics yet put before the world. It is impossible 
to trust a patient's statement as to drinking habits, and there 
is no other attainable datum for classifying him as temperate 
or the reverse. 

The * chronic condensation ' of the lung induced by alcohol, 
seems to be a form of atrophy not dissimilar to that brought 
on by the presence of fluid in the pleura, emphysema or 
frequent bronchitis. It arises from the imperfect functioning 
of the lung tissue, which, like aU imperfectly functioning 
tissues, becomes less vitalised, less fiilly renewed by interstitial 
metamorphosis. 

This imperfect functioning is a necessary consequence of 
the limitation of the aerating area of the lungs by the sangui- 
neous congestion which has been already alluded to. The 
extent to which the habitual congestion of the tissue and 
limitation of area is carried, even without apparent injury tA 



238 DIET IN HEALTH. 

health, is proved hj the diminution of the ' vital capaciiy ' for 
air as shown by the spirometer ; no drinker of drams between 
meals can ever come nearer than 20 or 30 cubic inches to the 
amount of air the lungs ought to expire in health. Yet so 
little does he notice this shortening of wind, that it is no un- 
common thing at insurance offices (when they use the spiro- 
meter) to have proposers make their appearance stating that 
thej have never been seriously ill, and never felt better than 
at that moment, who are caught out as dram-drinkers by the 
failure at the spirometer. The partial condensation of tne 
lung from this cause is not so likely to lead to fibrosis as to 
inelasticity and fatty degeneration of the tissue. The surface 
of the organ when examined post mortem takes the mark of 
the finger pressed upon it, is saturated with moisture, hardly 
crepitant at all and hardly able to swim in water. But it 
does not, as a rule, exhibit the whitish gristly stripes, which 
squeak under the scalpel, and consist of a dense fibrinous sub- 
stance, nor the contracting scar-like depressions which charac- 
terise chronic pneumonia. Nor does it suppurate, I believe. 

The chronic condensation of the pulmonary tissue is partly 
the cause of the wheezy broken speech of the intemperate ; 
but this also depends very often on an irregularly thickened 
condition of the laryngeal and tracheal mucous membrane, 
following an habitual sluggish circulation through its capil- 
laries. 

The last-named injury to health from excess in alcohol, 
arterial degeneration, is perhaps the most doubtful. It is so 
common in all classes that it is very difficult to arrive at direct 
proof of the tendency to it being increased by this cause. The 
principal fact in evidence is that it is more common among 
men than among women, and so is also drinking. But when 
I review the physiological instead of the statistical aspect of 
the argument, I can hardly hesitate to assign a serious influ- 
ence in the induction of the lesion to alcohol. Alcohol, which 
lowers all the vital actions we know of, is just the agency one 
would think most pernicious, in replacing elastic and fibrous 



ALCOHOL. 239 

tissue by that of an inferior grade, friable and nnorganised. 
Under arterial degeneration there ranks itself a long list of 
evils, of which those best known by name to the public 
are apoplexy and dropsy, justly reputed to be due to drink. 
To the medical mind they naturally suggest themselves, and 
it is needless to enumerate them here. 

When we consider how completely the whole body is 
saturated by alcohol taken in any marked excess, we cannot 
be surprised to hear that the evil effects of it are not rarely 
transmitted to future generations. In a recent work,* 
Dr. Auguste Yoisin has published the results of an investiga- 
tion into the consequences to the children of the father's 
addiction to intoxication, and very terrible they are. In 
seventeen cases of the spark of life being struck during the 
drunkenness of the father, infantile convulsions caused the 
child's death in eleven. Less fortunate were those who sur- 
vived ; three were idiots, two were epileptic, and one the 
subject of chronic myelitis. Of course this list is not a full 
statistical representation of the consequences of the parents' 
excess, for those who escape do not become subject to medical 
examination, and there is no means of knowing how many 
they may be. But it is a very terrible list for all that. 

Chronic alcoholism in the parents is still more cursed than 
the action of the acute condition above alluded to ; for it does 
not cut off the victims by a sudden blow, but allows them to 
live on in indefinite wretchedness. Of eighteen cases traced by 
Dr. Voisin, eight were idiots and ten were epileptic. 

Having attributed so many ill effects to alcohol, it is but 
fair to enquire whether something may not be found as a set- 
off beyond the mere dietetic use mentioned at the beginning 
of the essay. If it causes disease, may it not also prevent? 
There is a prevalent notion that it excludes the formation of 
tubercle. The fact given in proof of the notion is that 
publicans do not often die of phthisis, and Dr. Walshe en- 

' VJlcoolisme et la Sequestration des MUnSs, p. 3. 



240 DIET IN HEALTH. 

clones tho tmtb of it.* My own limited experience certainlj 
confirms that observation, but yet it goes rather to show that 
their not dying of phthibis depends, not on the exdnsion of 
tabercle, but on the postponement of the second stage of the 
malady. The tubercles do not so soon break down into 
sappnration. A publican who was a patient of mine for 
several years, off and on, died of hereditary consumption at a 
much later period than the rest of his family, and indeed after 
he had ceased to be a publican ; but the first development 
took place while he was actively engaged in aiding the spiiit- 
trade by precept and example. Nevertheless, it is something 
gained if the softening of the tubercles is in any way arrested 
by the use of alcohol, even though the arrest should be 
followed by a more general break-up in the end. But the use 
of alcohol in the treatment of disease, as contra-distinguished 
from its prevention, belongs to the next section, where the 
subject shall be resumed. 

The dietetic use of small quantities of alcohol tends to 
ward off morbid conditions which are secondary upon atonic 
dyspepsia ; and therefore it may be credited with the pre- 
vention of an£9mia, emaciation, premature old age from, worry, 
melancholia, sleeplessness, and any other possible conse- 
quences of that form of indigestion in a considerable section 
of the population. Our weaker brethren (yatrrepec ^yo«, 
' slow stomachs,' as the poet with anatomical precision calls 
them) owe it to alcohol, and often to alcohol only, that 
their weakness does not become disease. Very likely the 
dtpra messorum Uia are better without it, so long as they con- 
tinue tough; but how long is that in this age of feverish 
cultivation of the soul at the expense of the body ? And il 1 
indeed can the world spare many of those weaker brethren, 
who without alcohol would be wailing invalids instead of tho 
pillars of the country. 

The form in which the product of alcoholic fermentation 

^ Diseases of the Lungs^ 4th. ed. p. 453. 



ALCOHOL. 241 

is presented to the digestive organs is far from being indif-- 
ferent. The various methods of making it ieigreeable, or con- . 
venient, or cheap, offer an article varying, from, one little 
distant from a poison to one where all the advantages are 
obtained with an inappreciable risk of disadvantage. The 
most wholesome of these beverages are the immediate results , 
of fermentation in its simple integrity, or with the addition of 
water only. But it is very seldom that the saccharine matters - 
used are good enough, or the makers skilftd enough, and honest, 
enough, so to manufacture their liquors as to be agreeable to the 
palate, or capable of remaining agreeable for a sufficient time. 
And, therefore, the pure but nasty liquor has to be distilled ; 
and the distillation partly concentrates, but. principally newly 
developes the noxious * fusel oil,' the bugbear of the distillers. . 
All new, and therefore all cheap, spirits are made by it nauseous 
to the unaccustomed palate, and deleterious to the health. 

Of pure wine the ripening is soon effected, and after a., 
year or so, the palate only has to be consulted as to the time 
of consumption. But it is not so with vintages whose peculiar 
flavours it is desirable to preserve by retaining unfermented a 
portion of the sugar, and the oil of the grape-stone. Unless > 
these wines are * fortified ' with spirit, they decay prematurely, 
grow mouldy or * bitter,' rancid, and sour. Now, if pure 
alcohol or old French brandy were used for this purpose, little* 
harm would be done, but the manufacturers commonly employ 
for cheapness new potato or com • spirit, loaded with fusel ^ 
oil ; and then the only chance for the consumer getting a 
wholesome beverage is to keep it at the risk of deterioration, 
till it has become a costly luxury. Woe to the drinkers of 
cheap Peninsular wines and their imitations. 

There has been some question lately as to how * purity ' 
in wine is to be defined in legislative or other literature. Is , 
it an adulteration to add alcohol to wine ? I do not see how 
it can be considered so; and if it were, the proof of the- 
addition of one of the normal constituents of the liquid would 
be difficult. Just as it is difficult to decide, except by a ccw^- 



242 DIET IN HEALTH. 

ventional standard, that the water in onr milk does not come 
from the cow. And conventional standards are not strict 
justice. But if the offence were held to consist in ' fnseling ' 
wine, there would be but little impediment to our learning 
from an analyst whether we had an article fit for human 
consumption or not, and also its proximate commercial 
value. 

What principally concerns us here is that not all the evil 
of strong drinks is to be attributed to alcohol ; and that a 
man may by over-indulgence in ' pineapple lozenges,' ' pear 
drops,' or ' £ruity hardbake,' made as usual with the products 
of the semi-decomposition of fusel oil, possibly do his health 
more harm than by visits to the tap-room.* The whole evil of 
drinking does not arise out of fusel oil ; for we see the con- 
sumers of the very soundest beer and wine often suffer ; but 
that an incalculable addition is made to it thereby is beyond 
doubt, and great gratitude is due to everyone that helps us to 
exclude it from our beverages. 

There are also doubtless other qualities besides the exclusion 
of fusel oil which may render fermented liquors wholesome. 
Four years ago there was living at the village of Menidi, near 
Athens, a priest 90 years of age, who from early manhood 
had consumed a dozen bottles of Greek wine a day, partly 
at meals, and partly at odd times.^ It would be interesting, 
no doubt, to know the structure of this venerable toper's 
kidneys, ^as specimens of typical development, but the consul 
is probably right in attributiug much to the quality of the 
wine, which is preserved from chemical change by means of 
rosin instead of fusely spirit. Rosined wine is an acquired 
taste ; and the British artist, when he first quenches his thirst 

* In the Fourth AnmuU Report of the State Board of Health ofMassa- 
chtisetta (January 1873), mention is made by Dr. H. K. Oliver of two chil- 
dren being seized, after sucking a candy anchor, with alarming sedative 
symptoms, requiring active medical treatment. The flavouring was pine- 
apple essence (butyric ether). 

* See a letter from the U.S. consul at Athens in the Second Beport of 
the State Board of Health of MassachusettSi p. 268. 



ALCOHOL. 243 

at a Tuscan farm or rustic inn, is apt to exclaim that the 
landlord has drawn the wine in a varnish-pot, and to sneer 
at the balsamic and wholesome Vino Vermuth, But it is a taste 
well worth acquiring by thirsty souls in warm climates, and 
to be patronised by philanthropists. I understand that the 
flavour of Vino Vermuth is partly given by wormwood ; and 
if so, the acknowledged wholesomeness of the wine would seem 
an answer to M. Magnan and others who have been trying 
to fix upon the innocent herb the blame of what they call 
* Absinthisme,' and which is stated to contribute so largely to 
the degeneracy of the French nation.^ 

Water, again, and salt are directly antagonistic to alcohol 
in their physical action on the animal body. They both, 
especially the former, augment metamorphosis, as the pre- 
viously quoted researches of Dr. Boecker fully show. Their 
presence therefore in the wine, especially if they are thoroughly 
incorporated with it from its first origin, cannot but be bene- 
ficial. On this ground, the addition of sea water to the must 
(the marriage of Ampelos and Amphitrite of the Grreek gem) 
is a custom to be highly commended. 

Are there, against the ill consequences traceable to alcohol, 
any other preservatives, besides those found in the liquor 
itself ? — any guardians, innate or acquired, resident in the 
body of the consumer ? 

There are probably few readers of British literature who 
have not smiled at Addison's light banter of the amateur 
self-doctor, who says he commits an excess on the first Monday 
in every month for the good of his health.^ But perhaps all 
are not aware that this is a strict carrying out of the opinion 
deduced by the ingenious Sanctorius from careful observa- 
tions made upon his own person. He says that * They who 
use regular diet want the benefit of those who debauch once 
or twice a month.' « 

* Les diverses formes du dMire akoolique^ par le docteur Magnan. Paris, 
1874: Delahaye. 

2 Spectator, No. 26. 

' Medicina Statical Aph. 100. Quinces translation. 

^2 



244 DIET IN HEALTH. 

He does not give it as a popular notion, and it does not 
appear to have been so, till attention was drawn to his series 
of self-denying and generally conclusive experiments, with its 
portrait of the author dining in his scales opposite the title. 
But if the previous aphorisms be read, it will be seen that he 
grounds his opinion on the fact, that the weight of the body is 
less the next day ' without any sensible evacuation.- ^ This 
merely implies that less food has been assimilated, an advan- 
tage only to those who habitually eat too much. But the 
author seems to think thafc ' the corruptible body weigheth 
down the soul ' in direct proportion to its pounds and ounces, 
a most unphilosophical superstition. All the possible benefit 
of the monthly debauch might be gained, in certainly a more 
dignified manner, by a day's fasting. 

The only justification for an aphorism pregnant with so 
much danger is the observation, which is true enough, that 
occasional excesses, however much they may disturb the 
functions at the time, are infinitely less noxious than habitual 
dram-drinking. The most certain victims to alcohol are those 
who are always sipping, though * never drunk in their lives ;' 
whereas we have all of us known many a toper who has 
attained a green old age by letting an interval of recovery 
elapse between his bouts of riot. 

A powerful collateral preservative is the kidney. K this 
organ acts well and quickly, above the average of human 
kidneys, a large proportion of the alcohol swallowed passes 
away unchanged and harmless in a short space of time, as is 
shown by the known researches of Dr. Percy, Mr. Masing^ 
and the French physiologists, Perrin and Duroy, who have 
repeated their experiments. This peculiarity probably dis- 
tinguishes those strange mortals who never seem the worse 
for anything they drink. 

A further preservative against the wiles of alcohol is to be 
found in a fuH aeration of the blood. Those who can bear 
much liquor without constitutional effects have generally a 

' Medicina Statica^ Aph. 99. 



t 



ALCOHX)L. 245 

higli vital capacity of ckest in proportion to their stature ; 
whereas those whose health is injured by it fe,il to raise the 
spirometer to the proper measure of cubic inches ; so that by 
this means constitutions damaged by drink can be detected at 
insurance offices. It may be observed also, that a free supply 
of fresh air during meals modifies considerably the results of 
imprudence. 

§ 2. Moral Effects of Alcohol. 

As man consists of mind as well as body, it is impossible 
ID this essay to omit all mention of the moral effects of the 
consumption of alcoholic drinks, though the limitation of 
space prevents a full discussion of the subject. All nations 
that have led the van in the march of civilisation, have been 
addicted to drink — ay, and addicted to drunkenness. The 
Jews, the Greeks, the Romans, the Germans, the Swedes, the 
Danes, not to mention the English all round the globe, are 
amply attested by literature to ha^e been distinguished above 
their contemporaries in this way.^ It is true that some 
reactionary races, famous as conquerors, have been abstinent, 
but they and their faiths are dying out, and the colouring they 
have given to civilisation is even now fainter than that left 
by the robuster races a thousand years before they were 
heard of. Yet we learn at the same time from the same 
impartial witness, that vice, and vice too of a sort which is 
destructive to the social well-being of a community, is con- 
spicuously traceable on a vast scale to strong drink. We read 
of it in patriarchal times as leading to a breach of the instinc- 

* Br. Bowditch contends that proneness to drunkenness is governed by 
climatic law, becoming stronger in proportion to distance from the equator. 
But as he allows of the influence of hereditary disposition, the law does not 
guide us to much inference. The widely dispersed races are not appreciably 
affected in their habits by isothermal lines. Facilities for growing the 
grape depend doubtless on climate, but I think Dr. Bowditch's own map 
and data exclude its influence on man in respect of alcohol. — Third Annual 
Report to State Board of Health of Massachtisetts, 



246 DIET IN HEALTH. 

tive reverence due to parents, then to the vindictive enrsing 
of a son, tiien to incest, then to moider, and so on in a con- 
tinuoos series up to the wife-beatings in yesterday's police | 

reports. ! 

Then, side by side with the innumerable judges* charges 
and prison reports, establishing irrefragably the &ct that by 
far the greater proportion of crime brought under notice is 
due to drink, one reads with astonishment such unexpected I 

revelations as those contained in the following letter from the 
United States consul at Copenhagen to the Massachusetts 
Board of Health. Mr. Teaman says, after citing statistical i 

evidence : — 

' Here is a people evidently more prosperous than I 

formerly, evidently using more brandy than formerly, and 
evidently less given to intoxication than formerly. . . The 
people here appear so very sober, that I have been simply 
astonished to find how much brandy they really use.' ^ 

It is superfluous to notice that as intoxication is less, crimes 
of violence are less also. 

Mr. Yeaman goes on to add : — 

* There is perhaps no country in Europe, except Prussia, 
where the average standard of education and intelligence is 
so high as in Denmark.' 

How shall this conflict be reconciled ? How is it that 
ignorance, poverty, and vice, which daily are degrading the 
individual drinker, spare the community ? Have the statisti- 
cians erred by collecting evidence only for the prosecution, 
and omitting a counterbalancing class to the criminals ? I 
think so. The temperate man, who takes, in proportion to his 
needs, fermented liquors with his meals, has been put out of 
sight altogether. Yet is he the pillar of his country's pro- 
sperity, prolific, prosperous, and contented. It is probably his 
increase in number and power which balances the amount of 
vice and misery caused by excess in drink. It is not safe, 
then, for the political economist to neglect his interest, as 
would be done by legislative measures tending to make the 

^ Second AnnvjoU Eeport, \%1\. 



ALCOHOL. 247 

beverages lie requires more difficult of attainment, by impedi- 
ments to their pnrcliase or the enhancement of their price. 
Still less is it safe hy social pressure to lead him to banish the 
beer jug or the bottle from his table, and hide it in secret 
cupboards, or to drive him to sly-grog-shops between meals. 
He should rather be induced by the cheapness of wholesome 
fermented liquors to employ them for domestic use, and to 
forego the dangerous product of the still. 

In Nineveh of old (as Mr. Smith reads to us from the arrow- 
head records) Ishtar, goddess of carnal love, behaved at one 
time so scandalously, that the reigning sovereign persuaded 
the heavenly powers to let him banish her to the nether 
world. Few that read the published translation in the Daily 
Telegrajph last year (and who did not ?) can forget the pic- 
turesque monotone in which her grJtdual decay into silence is 
narrated at solemn length. But no sooner was she put down, 
than matters essential to the future continuance of the race 
went all wrong, and the frightened mover of this early re- 
pressive bill was obliged to petition for her return ; and back 
again she came in the same tedious way that she went. If 
this is history, it is a valuable experience ; if it is a myth, a 
prescient knowledge of man's nature is shown, pregnant of 
warning to the legislator. 

We need not hesitate to transfer to the regulation of 
matters connected with alcoholic excess experience amply 
confirmed by the histoiy of all ages, derived from another 
cognate temptation. The crimes attendant on both are de- 
velopments of selfishness, and of the want of that self-restraint 
which we were sent into the world to learn, and which a. man 
may fairly complain of a so-called paternal legislation depriv- 
ing him of the opportunity of learning. 

But the removal of the means of excess, out of false tender- 
ness to the exceeders, and at the expense of the temperate, is 
one thing, and the repression of their excesses is quite another 
— nay more, it is antagonistic. Pagan and Christian moralists 
have, perhaps, rightly held that of the three main incentives 
to crime, malice, brutality, Be\£-m&ai^evie^^ ^'Sk ^3i&\» S& ^^^a^ 



248 DIET IN HEALTH. 

more pardonable, and involyes the least smfnlness.' And so 
long as law was considered to represent a vengefol Deity, and 
to pnnisli in proportion to the moral enormity of the sinner, 
so long was drunkenness rightly pleaded in extenuation of 
offences. Even now in Italy it legally mitigates punishment. 
Bnt I believe I am correct in saying that a higher politieal 
education has in our age changed this view, and the province 
of law !• daily more and more considered to be confined to the 
protection of society, not of God — * Beorwm offensa Dug cwra * 
is said not in scorn, but in reverent humility. Now society, 
without a doubt, runs greater risk of damage by violence at 
the instigation of drunkenness than at the instigation of all 
other incentives whatever ; and therefore justice has advanced 
so far 88 in theory to hold it an aggravation of an offence. 
She feels that she ought to be most a terror to those from 
whom she is in greatest danger. In theory, yes — but she has 
not reduced her theory to wiitten rules ; and in practice we 
daily read instances of the mediaeval prejudice prevailing, and 
of criminals lightly treated because they are drunk, I should 
like to see this barbarous squeamishness pass away, and to 
see society protected by adding some deterrent degradation to 
crime committed during intoxication. I should like, for 
instance, to see the brute who kicks his wife and children when 
in liquor, well flogged, in addition to the penalty for assault. 
And drunken exposure of the person, and insults to young 

* Dante's angelic guide is described as quoting Aristotle -with approval : — 

Non ti rimembra di quelle parole, 
Con le qua! la tua Etica pertratta 
Le tre disposizion, che'l Ciel non vuole ; 

Incontinenza, malizia e la matta 
Bestialitade? e come incontinenza 
Men Dio bfiende, e men biasimo accatta ? 

Inferno, xi. 79. 

Reference is intended to the seventh book of the Nicomachean Ethics. * In- 
continenza ' is a translation of 6.Kpaffla, and does not mean * incontinence ' 
or ' intemperance ' in their modern narrowed senses, but includes all varieties 
of the recklessness of unclean living. 



ALCOHOL. ' ^ 249 

girls, miglit fairly be treated with the same indignity. The 
less innate turpitude there is in a criminal, the more possible 
it is to deter and reform him. Severity is worth practising 
when there is a chance of its being successful ; just as when 
a patient has a good constitution, a vigorous treatment of 
accidental ailments is to be commended. 

I 

To sum up the influence of alcohol upon a healthy man, 
it would seem to be as follows : — 

(1.) When taken in moderate quantities, and with meals, it 
often somewhat increases the appetite and the digestive 
powers. And the modus operandi by which it effects this 
object, is by curbing the deleterious consequence of excessive 
energy of the nervous system. 

(2.) When taken in Excess its first noxious influence is on the 
nervous system, and hence we find in predisposed women * hys- 
teria,' and in men 'alcoholism ' or * chronic delirium tremens.' 

(3.) When taken in excess, it so far impedes the renewal 
of the nerve tissue, that the vital activity of the blood-vessels 
is diminished over-much and over-long. 

(4.) Of this diminution of the circulation, one result is 
local congestion of various parts, temporary at first and quite 
capable of relief, but by long continuance tending to produce 
permanent lesions. 

(5.) If too long deprived of the nervous energy which 
presides over interstitial growth, the parts fall into atrophic 
degeneration ; and instead of elastic, fibrous, areolar, muscular 
tissue, and whatever else of subtle structure may be needftil to 
animal life, there is deposited only a mass of friable, lifeless 
substances, midway in chemical composition between albumen 
and fat. 

(6.) It is probable that these noxious influences are con- 
tinued so long as the alcohol is retained in the blood. 

(7.) The principal lesions induced by steady regular excess 
of alcohol are cirrhosis of the liver, Bright's disease, conden- 
sation ^f the lungs, thickening of the larynx and bronchi^ 



250 DIET IN HEALTH. 

ossification and thickening of the arteries. And it is difficult 
to say what secondary lesions may not follow upon these. 

(8.) The increased risk to life from injury or dcute disease, 
incurred by the intemperate, may be accounted for, by some 
amount of the afore-mentioned atrophy having already taken 
place in their bodies, and so- diminishing their force of 
recovery. 

(9.) For there appears to be a likelihood that the imme- 
diate anaesthetic power of alcohol will tend to spare the nerves 
the shock of the external causes of disease, and so render it 
less injurious to a previously sound man. 

(10.) Alcohol cannot be trusted to prevent tuberculosis, 
though it retards its progress. 

(11.) Taken in still greater excess at once, in fact so as to 
produce drunkenness, it is probably not nearly so fatal in its 
consequences. The poisonous drugging of the nervous system 
is followed by an attack of indigestion and general pain, 
during which the blood purges itself of the alcohol. 

(12.) Even should the blows to the nerves inflicted by 
drunken bouts be continually repeated, the consequences 
follow in crises, and may be recovered from, which cannot be 
said of atrophic lesions. These crises usually consist of the 
well-known phenomena of delirium tremens^ which often so 
alarm the patient as to lead to a reform. 

(13.) Some forms of alcoholic drinks are much more 
deleterious than others, especially those which contain a large 
proportion of fusel oil. 

Hence we may deduce these rules for the use of alcohol by 
healthy persons. 

(A.) Let it be taken never as a stimulant or preparative 
for work, but as a defence against the injury done by work, 
whether of mind or body. For example it is best taken 
with the evening meal, or after toil. 

(B.) Let the increase in the desire for and power of digest- 
ing food be the guide and limit to the consumption of all 
alcoholic liquids. 



ALCOHOL. 251 

(C.) Let the forms be such as contain the least proportion 
of fusel oil. 

(D.) Let all with an hereditary tendency to hysteria or 
other fonctional disease of the nervous system, refrain from its 
nse altogether, even though as yet they are in good health. 
Among the hereditary tendencies must be classed a proclivity 
to delight in drunkenness, which remarkably runs in families. 
Children with such an heirloom had best be kept as late as 
possible without tasting strong drink. 

The legislative authorities have the opportunity of materi- 
ally advancing the good of their country : — 

(a.) By cheapening through fiscal regulations all whole- 
some fermented drinks, such as good beer and wine, and by 
laying the burden of taxation on the retail trade in spirits.* 

(5.) By declaring fusel oil to be a poisonous adulteration 
of alcoholic beverages, so that the mother of invention may 
teach distillers to eradicate it. 

(c.) By severely punishing intoxication. 

(d.) Habitual intoxication might justly be made a ground 
for the dissolution of marriage, in that a wrong is done to the 
nation, as well as to the innocent partner, when it is burdened 
with members incapable of contributing to the common weal, 

* Encouragement may be taken from what has happened in California. 
Mr. James Morrison writes : — 

* Before the introduction of native wines, when the stronger alcoholic 
stimulants were used, drunkenness was very common in California. The 
native wines are now found in nearly every household ; they have sup- 
planted to a great extent the use of the stronger alcoholic drinks. It is a 
fact, which no one familiar with California for the last twenty years will 
deny, that drunkeiftiess is much less common now than formerly. This 
change is undoubtedly due to the substitution of the wine of the country for 
the stronger alcoholic stimulants.' The very decided eflFect which financial 
legislation can have upon the comparative consumption of different sorts of 
liquors is shown by the effect of the budget of April 6, 1872, which laid a 
heavy tax upon absinthe in France. Within a year from that date M. Ber- 
geron was able to report to the temperance society that the consumption of 
the said liqueur had diminished by nearly one half. See Revue des Deux 
Mondes, March 15, 1874, p. 476. 



252 DIET IN HEALTH. 

which is so likely to be the case with the progeny of drnnkards. 
When the wrong is involuntary, we pardon it ; but alcoholism 
cannot plead that exclise, unless it take its stand on the ground 
of insanity, which removes the question into another category 
altogether. Those who claim the rights of free agents must 
answer for all the consequences of their acts. 

Were the law to express such a marked disapproval of 
drunken husbands and wives, the benefit would extend much 
wider than the few whom it might free from the chain of 
matrimony : for it would teach men and women what a grave 
offence is committed by risking the parentage of an idiot, and 
lead them to take means to avoid it. 

Nevertheless the most powerful engine for securing to 
mankind the beneficial influences of alcohol without its atten- 
dant dangers, is to be sought in the habits and silent pressure 
of social life. As our race becomes more humanised by training 
and experience, it is more to be trusted to make use of 
Heaven's gifts without abusing them ; and the degradation of 
mind and body which alcohol is capable of entailing will 
become hateful at the same pace as its true value becomes 
understood. Such a progress is worth a hundredfold all 
possible legislation. The man who prefers law to custom 
announces a principle which would set the means above the 
end, would stereotype imperfect efforts, and substitute cork 
jackets for the power of swimming. Towards the progress of 
temperate habits every man can contribute — and who more 
powerfully than the medical man?-— by the example of the 
moderate use of fermented beverages of the right sort at 
proper times, and by the discouragement of indulgence and 
excess. There is a difficulty in sending a drunkard to an 
asylum, but he is easily sent * to Coventry ' and made to feel 
that he is a degraded animal. There may possibly be some 
rare cases to be found of true ' dipsomania ; ' where, without 
any other mental disease, the patients are carried off by an 
uncontrollable impulse to drink ; but they certainly are very 



ALCOHOL. 253 

rare indeed, and every alleged instance that I have investi- 
gated has always exhibited also some other form of insanity, 
sufficient to justify the imposition of restraint, or else proved 
to be using the cant of the day as an excuse for self-indul- 
gence. The exceptionail cases may be separately dealt with, 
when they occur ; but as a rule I think it is better to give 
men the education of being their own gaolers than to let them 
lean on the weak crutch of State inebriate asylums. 

Voluntary association for the purpose of mutual encourage- 
ment in temperance, for the discouragement of drunkenness 
and of the use of ardent spirits, or for the prosecution of the 
sellers of adulterated beverages, stands on a different footing 
from legislative control. It is a step in self-education. But 
unhappily it has been stopped from useful employment by the 
fatal snare of exaggeration. The denouncement of alcohol 
as always a poison, and its use for good fellowship as a sin, 
is now inseparably united in our minds with societies for the 
promotion of true temperance ; and thus the latter virtue has 
been retarded by the fatal prejudice of being tied up in the 
same bundle with a fallacy. The society formed in Prance 
about two years ago, under the title * U Association fi'an^ise 
contre Vahus des hdssons alcooliques,* though it may not make 
such a noise as our teetotalism^ has a better basis of action. 
The proposed object is to encourage the substitution of inoffen- 
sive and salutary drinks for spirits. It accepts and recom- 
mends the use of beer, of natural wine, as. well as of tea and 
coffee at meals, after the day's work is done,^ but sets its face 
sturdily against distilled liquors, facilities for liquoring between 
meals, and all excess. For my part I have faith in the con- 
tinuous improvement in the human race ; and I think I can 
see, not so very far ahead in the ftiture, the influence of 
alcohol upon health perfected in its good, and deprived of its 
evil, without the dubious aid of any prohibitive legislation, 

Somfe well-meaning persons think to discourage intem- 
perance in drink by affecting a cjrnical carelessness as to the 
quality of that which is consumed. They allow their guesta 



254 DIET IN HEALTH. 

• 

* a little wine for their stomaclis' sake,' but serve it out as like 
a dmg as possible. 

It is nothing to them if it be adulterated or not — * wipe 
away all poetry, all refinement from the cup,' say they, 
' and it will cease to tempt.' This reasoning is utterly false. 
As long as a sensual pleasure is coarse and rude, it can be 
attractive only by its quantity, and all indulgence can be only 
excess. But let it dress itself in the charms of a higher 
SBstheticism, let the enjoyment of it be shared with others, 
and be associated with noble and beautiful memories, and 
moderation becomes a law of its eidstence. The sensuality of 
the savage is selfish, shameless, and unbridled. With the 
advance of manners it first parts with its selfishness, then it 
acknowledges the evils of excess, and then curbs itself more and 
more till it ceases to be intemperance at all. True of other 
gratifications of instinctive desire, this is especially true of 
drinking. The better the wine is, and the more attractive 
its aspect, the less likely are people to take too much of it. 
When Anacreon and Horace, Phidias and Cellini, Etruscan 
potters and Venetian glass-blowers, conspired to wreath the 
goblet with a halo of romance, they substituted an elegant 
appreciation for a degrading animalism, and led society a step 
onwards in morality. And it may be noticed that our Divine 
Exemplar first manifested forth his glory by giving to his 
village neighbours not only wine, but a pleasanter wine than 
they were accustomed to. I, therefore, hold it to be a duty 
of every one to see that whatever sort of beverage is provided 
for his household should be the best of its sort, the most 
agreeable to the educated palate, and adorned with the most 
refined surroundings that circumstances allow. However little 
a man's purse allows him to drink, let it be good. 



PAET in. 



DIETETICS IN SICKNESS. 



257 



CHAPTER L 

THE DIET AND* REGIMEN OF ACUTE FEVERS. 

The principal acute fevers enumerated in the Nomencla- 
ture are small-pox, chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, typhus, 
enteric (or gastric), relapsing, yellow, remittent, cholera, 
mumps, influenza, weed. Some varieties of these, characterised , 
some by more severe, and some by milder phenomena than ordi- 
nary, receive special names which would needlessly lengthen 
a list cited simply for the purpose of explanation. 

One of the most natural and practical divisions of diseases 
is into acute and chronic. We are not always quite sure in 
which class to place the special morbid process we happen to 
be considering ; but in an overwhelming majority of instances 
there is no doubt at all ; and when we have decided, the light 
thrown on the path to judicious treatment is clear and bright. 
By * acute ' disease is meant such as has a tendency to progress 
in a circle towards the recovery of health : each process, how- 
ever dangerous and abnormal it may be, being a step towards 
the final arrival at that result, if only the sick man's strength 
hold out. While of * chronic' the natural road is straight 
on from bad to worse, unless from the interposition of 
some extraneous agency of accidental or designed origin 
foreign to the process of the disease itself. Dr. Pierre Petit, 
in the preface to his * Commentary on AretsBus,* compares 
the former to race-horses, which run round to the goal, unless 
they founder on the way : one might in the same strain liken 
the path of the latter to that fatal descent Jwhich leads to 
Avernus. This division of maladies is of the most essential 

a 



258 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

importance wlien we undertake to estimate the value of 
remedial measures. Nearly all the fe-Uacies which have 
overladen our druggists' shops, not to speak of a variety of 
theories ending in * pathy,' which crop up from time to time, 
flow from watching the acute phenomena in disease, as an 
index of the effect of a medicine. A very moderate spice of 
medical logic will suffice to show that it is only from, the 
numerical comparison of many public institutions for many 
years that an opinion can be formed in acute disease concern- 
ing that effect. Whereas by observing its action in chronic 
disease, one cautious man may, from a very small number of 
well-considered cases, come to a reasonable conclusion as to 
the value of any really active medication. I am used, there- 
fore, in instructing pupils, to insist very much on the differ- 
ences between acuteness and chronicity : I believe the idea to 
be of great importance in the formation of the medical mind. 
And in the limited department of therapeutics treated of in 
this volume it must not be passed over, for in the most chronic 
cases there are acute phenomena, and in acute cases there are 
sometimes elements of chronicity which require a just estimate 
to be formed of them, when we come to test the efficacy of 
our efforts at relief. 

In acute fevers, it is evident that it is not our business to 
try and arrest the symptoms, any more than it is our business 
to arrest the rising tides. We must only take care that they 
do not swamp our boat, and the safest way to do that is to 
keep the vessel as sound as possible and as capable of resisting 
external agencies as we can make it. The value of nutrition 
in fevers has been observed from the earliest times : Hippo- 
crates thought so much of it that the point of his treatise 
* On the management of acute diseases * lies in his recommen- 
dation of the use of wine, and of a ptisan of barley which we 
now call *gi»uel.' The proper preparation of the latter he 
considers so important, that he condescends to tell us how to 
make it, so that it may be * thin, but not too thin ; thick, but 
not too thick,' as Miss Austen describes the perfection of this 



r 



. ACUTE FEVEM. 259 

dietetic article. But during the dark ages of medical scienco 
a bugbear called Inflammation was set up, and acute disease 
grew to be considered a devouring flame, wbich must be 
starved out by removing fuel. This scare culminated in the 
French physicians of the last generation, who actually deprived 
the sick of all food whatsoever^ as a mode of treatment, and 
called it dlete. That was going too far, and the results terrified 
the neighbouring islanders, who in the person of Dr. Graves 
found a voice, and maintained, not only in deeds but in 
words, that the * feeding of fevers ' was the most essential 
feature in their cure. In following his master, Dr. Graves 
goes a step beyond the cautious Hippocrates ; for though he 
sticks to gruel, barley water, and whey the first three or four 
days, he quickly after that proceeds to chicken broth, meat 
jelly, and strong soup. It would be a platitude to point out 
the diflference in the mortality since this change of practice. 
Everybody acknowledges its wisdom, except a very few 
eccentrics. 

The great art of duly nourishing fever patients consists 
in giving a frequent, almost continuous, supply of liquid 
nutriment containing very soluble aliments in a dilute form. 
Perhaps I may be allowed to quote myself on this subject, 
and reproduce a clinical lecture I delivered at St. Mary's 
Hospital thirteen years ago. 

* The physician sees that a large supply of nitrogenous 
material must be wanting. The nitrogenous tissues are 
devitalised, are drained away in a disproportionate excretion 
of urea and other organic compounds, and nothing is taking 
their place. Shall he act antagonistically, and try to stop the 
passage of urea by the kidneys ? I do not know exactly how 
he would set about it ; but I do know that if he succeeded^ 
he would do positive harm ; for the very worst cases of fever 
are those in which metamorphosis is active (as shown by the 
heat), while the excretion of urea is arrested (as shown by the 
lightness of the urine) ; they resemble cases of ursBmic poison- 
ing from diseased kidneys. The other principles of tre&tQ^<^\:^ 

s 2 



260 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

wliicli I noticed in my introductory lecture would not, perhaxMi, 
be so directly injurious, but common sense would still allot 
the palm to restoration here. Let it be your chief aim to 
supply that which you clearly see is passing away — ^nitro- 
genous tissue. 

* But how will you supply it ? Solid food would in all 
probability be vomited, from the unbearable loathing it excites. 
If not vomited, it would lie for some time a mere foreign 
body outside the mucous membrane of the digestive canal, 
and then pass away by diarrhoea, with much flatus and fetor, 
and much disengagement of gas during putrefaction. Tour 
beefsteak might as well have been at once thrown down its 
final destination, the water-closet, to which it passes putrid, 
though undigested. Neither is it wise to fill the stomach 
with largo quantities of victuals, for the same result f oUows*. 
No * meals,* therefore, must be allowed ; and prudence sug- 
gests the giving in their place very small doses of nitrogenous 
aliment very frequently. These pass over the irritated 
stomach unconsciously, and are taken up gradually by the 
intestines, requiring but very little to make them fit for 
absorption. The suitablest food is that which is naturally 
supplied to the weakest stomach. The feeble digestive organs 
of babies can assimilate milk, and milk forms the most appro- 
priate nourishment for the debilitated viscera of the fever 
patient. By giving two or three ounces every hour, you may 
get down a quart and a half per diem. But under ordinary 
circumstances every two hours is often enough. If there is 
sufficient acid left in the stomach to coagulate the casein into 
clots, and cheesy lumps are rejected by vomiting, as happens 
sometimes in milder cases, you may guard agaiast this by 
adding liquor calcis or soda-water to the milk, or you may 
supply its place by beef -tea. But it is the lumping of the 
cheese into solid masses that it is desirable to avoid, not the 
a.cidification, which is beneficial. If the patient takes thus a 
good supply of milk and beef-tea, not only is the imminent 
danger of death by starvation avoided, but the emaciation 



ACUTE FEVERS. 261 

which follows during convalescence is nmch less extreme, and 
the dangers in its wake less formidable. 

' Eggs are a highly nutritious food ; if taken raw, and diluted 
with milk or water, they are quickly absorbed. But should 
they be delayed and putrefy, the products of their decomposi- 
tion are peculiarly injurious : the sulphuretted hydrogen and 
ammonia evolved are poisons to the intestines. I should 
reconmiend you to avoid eggs till convalescence has restored 
the gastric powers. The same objection does not lie against 
milk, the lactic acid arising from whose decomposition assists 
in the solution of the casein. Sour buttermilk is by no means 
to be despised as a food.' ^ 

When a patient cannot be raised in bed without risk of 
exhaustion, a crockery or glass feeder is a convenience, but 
the same vessel, or even one of the same appearance, should nob 
be used for food and for medicine. 

If the patient's mouth be foul, as in small-pox or putrid 
fever, it should be cleansed when he is fed. The administra- 
tion of nutriment should then be so frequent that it is not 
allowed to become again foul. In fact the cleaner it is kept 
in the intervals, the better. 

Food taken by the mouth should, as a rule, be as near the 
natural temperature of the body as possible. But when the 
febrile heat is very high, or there is much nausea, some of it 
may be iced with advantage. 

When the stomach is inflamed, as we are taught by morbid 
anatomy to know it is in severe scarlatina, or when there is 
vomiting, only a few teaspoonfuls should be drunk at once, 
and everything cold and dilute. The admixture of pepsine, in 
quantity not exceeding 20 grains a day, is also beneficial to 
these patients. If it purges, it may be guarded with a few 
drops of laudanum. 

In obstinate vomiting and other instances where the 
ordinary paths of absorption refuse to fulfil their functions, 
it is necessary to get nutriment taken in by unusual routes. 

* Lectures Chi^y Clinical^ London, 1864, lect. yi, ot 4t\5ft. ^^ 



262 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

This is often tlie case at the height or later end of acute fevers, 
and then life may bo sustained a long time by nutritive injec- 
tions into the lower end of the bowel. Physiological experi- 
ments imdertaken with the view of testing the power of 
absorption in these parts have demonstrated that many soluble 
drugs may be introduced into the blood through their mncous 
membranes. Opium, for instance, acts quickly when so given. 
And if drugs, why not aliment ? Food thus administered in 
enema must be dilute, and ^ it must be warm, and then very 
likely the still secreted intestinal juices which descend from 
above may dissolve a considerable amount of its starch and 
animal fibre. Yet a surer way of securing the solution is 
to add a small quantity of pcpsino to take the place of gastric 
juice, and also of diastase (in the shape of malt) to supply the 
deficiency of saliva. 

When life seems passing away under their eyes, the 
friends will often shrink from tormenting (as it seems to 
them) the sick man with food. Let them not despair : many 
a one has recovered after the doctor has taken his leave with 
a sad shake of the head, and without making a fresh appoint- 
ment. And let them also be stimulated by this fact — namely, 
that the pains of death are aggravated, if not mainly caused, 
by the failure of nutrition. Even when apparently insensi- 
ble, the dying suffer much increased distress from want of 
food, though they cannot express their sufferings. 

The use of alcohol in fevers is regulated by the condition 
of the. nervous system. If there is great prostration of 
strength, or tremulousness of the hands, or quivering in the 
voice and respiration, if there is delirium of a low muttering 
character when the patient is left quiet, then it is required. 
Or if the patient is habituated to a full allowance, it is well to 
continue to give a little. A sharp, weak, unequal beat of the 
heart is a warning that some of these symptoms are likely 
soon to come on. All these indicate that the nervous system 
is feeling very sensitively the destructive metamorphosis going 
on, and has its power lowered by its sensitiveness. Then is 



. ACUTE FEVERS. 263 

the opportunity for the strong anaesthetic we are speaking of, 
which I order without scruple, though I do not view it, like 
food, as part of the necessary cure of fever. Above all, the 
friends must be warned not to employ it as a substitute for 
food : it may be useful as an adjunct, but can never take the 
place of true restoratives. , 

The form of alcoholic liquors must depend a good deal 
upon the purses of those who pay for it. Sound port, 
burgundy, and champagne, are the best, but I do not despise 
cheap gin if I can get nothing else. 

It contributes greatly to the appetite of a sick person if 
the nurse is of fresh, clean, and cheerful aspect. Her dress 
should be of some washing material which does not rustle, of 
a soft warm colour, and not stuck out with crinoline or any 
other sort of * dress improver.' Black is always nasty to tho 
sensitive oKactory nerves of an invalid. Above all, she must 
have a quiet decided manner, and never fidget. 



Cookery for Fever Patients. 

White Wine Whey, 
(All Wheys are Sudorific and Nutritive.) 

Put two pints of new milk in a saucepan and stir it over a 
clear fire till it is nearly boiling ; then add a gill of sherry, and 
simmer for a quarter of an hour, skimming off the curd as it 
1 ises. Then add a tablespoonful more sherry and skim again 
for a few minutes. 

Bennet Whey, 

To a quart of ftew milk, either warm from the cow, or 
heated up to the same temperature, add a large tablespoonful 
of rennet.^ Keep up the heat a little higher till the curd 
separates, and take it off with a spoon. 

f 

* See end of chap. ii. sec. 7, in first part, p. 61 . 



264 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Lemonade, 

Pni-e a lemon Teiy thin and pnt tlie paring in a jug with 
an ounce of sugar candy. Squeeze the lemon into it, and pour 
on a pint of boiling water. Orange or pineapple may be nsed 
instead of lemon as a variety. 

(Other aqueous drinks, good in both health and sickness, 
have been ali^eady mentioned at the end of Chapter IL § 10 in 
the First Part, p. 81.) 

Luiseed Tea (^Demulcent and Diuretic^, 

Whole linseed, one ounce ; 

White sugar, one ounce ; 

Liquorice root, half an ounce ; 

Lemon juice, four tablespoonfuls. 
Pour on tlio materials two pints of boiling water, let them 
stand in a hot place four hours, and then strain off the liquor. 
Do not give this to patients taking lead, iron, or copper. 

Barley Water, 

Wash two ounces of pearl barley with cold water. Then 
boil it for five minutes in some fresh water, and throw both 
waters away. Then pour on two quarts of boiling water, and 
boil it down to a quart. Flavour with thinly cut lemon rind 
and sugar to taste, but do not strain unless at the patient*s 
special request. 

Water Gruel, 

Mix one large tablespoonful of oatmeal into a ttnooth paste 
with a little cold water. Pour in, mixing all the time, a pint 
of boiling water. Boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and 
strain. It may be eaten with salt or sugar, according to 
taste. 

Another Gruel, 

Grits ^ oz. ; Water § pint ; Milk ^ pint ; Sugar \ oz. 
(Children* a Hospital). 



ACUTE FEVERS. 265 

Arrowroot, 

Mix one large tablespoonful of arrowroot into a smooth 
thin paste with a little cold water. Pour in a pint of boiling 
water, and flavonr as required. 

For * milk gruel ' and ' milk arrowroot ' milk is substituted 
for water. 

nice Gniel (someivhat astringent, in cases of diarrhoea). 

Take of 

Ground rice, two ounces ; 

Cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce ; 

Water, four pints. 

Boil for forty minutes ; then add a tablespoonful of orange 
marmalade. 

Bael Drinlc (in dysentery and diarrlioea). 

The liquid extract of unripe Bael fruit {Liquor Beloe), one 
or two tablespoonf uls to a pint of water. 

Alum Whey i^in diarrhoea'). 

Use alum in place of rennet to curdle the milk, in the 
proportion of about a quarter of an ounce to the first. Other- 
wise make it as rennet whey. 

Almond Brink {softening and nutritive in cJiest cases). 

A useful -and pleasant drink may be quickly prepared by 
rubbing up twq ounces of the * compound powder of almonds * 
(to be got at any chemist's) with a pint of water. 

Claret Cujp for Invalids, • 

Half a bottle of claret to a bottle of soda-water. Half a 
dozen drops of sweet spirits of nitre {sjpiritus cetheris nitrosi) 
put into the jug first gives a fruity flavour. 



•v;s v.r.7 IN >.icxxissL 

V 

. - -^- - ~:.-.i n. I* iiiin or ifrm: 



^ TTiJiiir: 

■— ;i-i1t- ilMtTTTIP 

:t SSI' -TtL ant 



LO't- 1251 



— 7 ._. JuicrfTKEH 






ACUTE FEVERS. 267 

form ; and that its vices are to be sticky and strong, and 
to set in a hard jelly when cold. 

When she understands this, let her take half a ponnd of 
fresh-killed beef for every pint of beef-tea required, and remove 
all fat, sinew, veins, and bone. Let it be cut up into pieces 
under half an inch square, and soak for twelve hours in one- 
third of the water. Let it then be taken out and simmered 
for two hours in the remaining two-thirds of the water, the 
quantity lost by evaporation being replaced from time to time. 
The boiling liquor is then to be poured on the cold liquor in 
which the meat was soaked. The solid meat is to be dried, 
pounded in a mortar, freed from all stringy parts, and mixed 
with the rest. 

When the beef-tea is made daily, it is convenient to use 
one day's boiled meat for the next day's tea, as thus it has 
time to dry and is easier pounded. 

A wholesome flavouring for beef-tea is fresh tomato, now 
so commonly grown on a south wall in gardens. A piece of 
green celery stalk, or a small onion, and a few cloves, may 
also be boiled in it. Leeks give it a fusty flavour, and 
mushroom ketchup, which some cooks introduce, is of doubtful 
composition. 

While this is a-cooking, some more hastily prepared in the 
usual way may be used, or even Liebig's Extract, provided 
cafe be taken that the latter is sufficiently diluted, so as not 
to turn the stomach. 



Q^ic7cer but less economical hecf-iea. 

One pound of raw beef, minced, for each pint of water. 
Stir up cold and let it stand one hour. Then place the vessel 
in which they are mixed in a pan of water and heat them up 
to about 180° Fahr. for another hour over a slow fire. If 
boiled up to 212° it becomes gluey, and is not equally 
nutritious or digestible. Bun the tea through a coarse 
strainer, and flavour at discretion. 



268 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Beef and Hen Broth. (Gouffe). 

Still quicker and still less economical is the following : — 
Take 1 lb. of lean beef ; 
^ a hen, boned ; 

Ponnd together in a mortar ; add \ oz. of salt ; pat in a 
stewpan with 2^ pints of water ; and stir over the fire till 
boiling ; then add carrots, onions, leeks, and celery, cat fine ; 
boil for half an hour ; strain, and serve. 

Beef -tea and broth should not be kept hot, bub heated up 
as required. It may be warmed, but never prepared in the 
sick room, for nothing sets an invaUd against food so much 
as cooking. K a nurse can rig up a fire or a gas stove for her 
own use in an adjoining room, well and good ; but if not, she 
had better descend to the kitchen. In summer, when a fire 
is undesirable, she may employ Silver's patent Norwegian 
cooking box, in which cooking is done by hot water. Bat it 
is rather an expensive mode of attaining a simple object, unless 
the nurse were to keep one as part of her stock in trade. 

Ghichen Broth. 

Skin, and chop up small, a small chicken, or half a large 
fowl, and boil it, bones and all,* with a blade of mace, a sprig 
of parsley, and a crust of bread, in a quart of water for an 
hour, skimming it from time to time. Strain through a coarse 
cullender. 

Chicken broth poured on sippets laid on the bottom of the 
dish, makes a good sauce for boiled chicken or partridge, 
when the invalid is well enough to be allowed solid food. 

Glutton Broth. 

Lean loin of mutton, one pound, exclusive of bone ; 
Water, three pints. 

* Some people add the feet, which contribute a peculiar, and not al-ways 
acceptable, flavour. 



ACUTE FEVERS. 269 

Boil gently till very tender, throwing in a little salt and 
onion, according to taste. Pour ont the broth into a basin, 
and when it is cold, skim off all the fat. It can be warmed 
np as wanted. 

If barley or rice is added, as is desirable during convales- 
cence, it must be boiled first separately, till quite soft, and 
added when the broth is heated for nse. 

JSel Broth. 

Skin,- clean, and chop np into pieces an inch long, half-a- 
dozen small eels. Boil them in a pint and a half of water, 
skim, and then cover over and stew for forty minutes. This 
makes a capital stock for a souchee of flonnders, sole, or perch, 
and a very good change for convalescents from fevers. The 
object is to avoid giving bntter sance, which is apt to turn 
rancid. 

Boiled Pigeon or Partridge. 

Clean and season the bird, enclose it in a pnff paste, and 
boil. Serve in its own gravy, snpplemented by the liver 
rubbed np with some stock, and do not forget the bread 
sance. 

Bread Sance. 

The crnmb of a French roll ; 

Water, half a pint ; 

Black pepper, six to eight corns ; 

A small piece of onion and salt to taste. 

Boil till smooth ; then add a piece of bntter about as big 
as a walnnt, and mix for nse. It is good hot with hot birds, 
cold with cold birds, and is an excellent food for the sick. 

Nutrient Enema. 

{In cases where the stomach rejects food.) 

Take of beef-tea half a pint, and thicken it with a tea^ 
spoonful of tapioca. Eednce IJ oz. of raw beef to a fina 



270 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

pulp, pass it throngli a fine cullender, and mix the whole up 
with 20 grains of acid pepsine (Boadaolt's poudre digeiUve) 
and 4 grains of diastase (or a dessert-spoonfal of malt flour)' 
( Fonssagri vcs) .• 

It should liave a bright rose tint, and exhale a rich meaty 
odonr. Not more than a quarter of a pint at once should be 
used, and that slowly. Thus, frequent repetition is facilitated. 

Pending the arrival of the pepsine and malt^ the other 
portion of the liquid may he administered alone. 

Malt Tea. 
(^Nutrient in cases where the mouth is very dryS) 
Boil three ounces of malt in a quart of water. 

Biscuit aiid Milh, 

Soak for about eight hours, till it is quite pnltaceous, a 
hard captain's biscuit in milk or in water. Pour off what it 
has not absorbed, and mix it up in a pint of new milk. 

Bread Pudding. 

Pour over a Fi*ench ixjll half a pint of boiling milk, cover 
it close, and let it stand till it has soaked up the milk. Tie 
it up lightly in a cloth, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. 
Turn it out on a plate, and sprinkle a little sugar candy over 
it. The addition of burnt sugar or tincture of saffron will 
give it the established yellow colour. 

Bice Budding. 

Boil two ounces of rice in a pint of milk, assiduously 
stirring till it thickens. Take it off and let it cool. Then mix 
in well two ounces of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, 
and sugar in moderation, according to taste. Pour it into a 
buttered dish and bake. 

' "Where malt flour is used, the tapioca may be omitted. 
« Journal de Med. et de Chir. Prat. 1862. 



ACUTE FEVERS. '271 

Batter Pudding. 

Flonr, tliree teaspoonfuls ; 
Milk, one pint ; 
Salt, a pinch ; 

Of powdered ginger, nutmeg, and tincture of saffron, each 
a teaspoonful. Boil. 

The point in the last three recipes is the avoidance of 
eggs, -which, when baked or even when boiled so long as it is 
necessary to boil puddings, are quite insoluble in a weak 
stomach. If, however, they are dressed separately, and either 
kept raw or lightly heated, they may be made into a custardy 
sauce, which is quite digestible in small quantities. To this 
a little wine may be added as a flavouring. 

The Invalid^ 8 Tea. 

Pour into a small china or earthenware teapot a cup of 
quite boiling water, empiy it out, and while still hot and steam- 
ing, put it in the tea. Add enough boiling water to wet it 
thoroughly, and set it close to the fire to steam for five or 
six minutes. Then pour in the quantity of boiling water 
required, from the kettle, and it is ready for use. 

The Invalid* 8 Mashed Potato, 

Boil one pound of potatoes with their jackets on till they 
are tender or brittle. Peel them, and rub them through a 
fine sieve ; when cool, add a small teacupfal of fresh cream and 
a Httle salt, beating the jpuree up lightly as you go on, till it 
is quite smooth, and warming it up gently for use. 



1. 

i. 

1 ■ 



4 



* 



4 , 



i 



i 

f 11' 



/ 



i- 



273 



CHAPTER n. 

DIET OF GEETAIN OTHEB INFLAMMATOBY STATES. 

Inflammation arising from the congestion of any part of the 
body, whether in immediate consequence of injury, cold, heat, 
or other external accident, or from some previoTis disease or 
lesion, gets well soonest and safest when the blood is kept in 
as normal a condition as possible. The healthier and more 
eJBicient for nutrition the blood is, the more freely it circulates, 
the less are the throbbing, the swelling, the heat, the forma- 
tion of mucus, pus, or fibrin, and the risk of ulceration or 
gangrene. Bruises, wounds, sores, and the necessary gaps 
made by the surgeon's knife, all heal the better for the blood 
being kept red and fluid. 

Now starvation has precisely the opposite effect : it aug- 
ments the proportion naturally borne by the fibrin to the red 
blood-globules ; it makes the circulating fluid more readily 
coagulate, more adhesive, and consequently more prone to 
stick to the sides of the minute vessels through which it ought 
to flow, and more liable to block them up, and thus to fitvour 
their throbbing and swelling, and sometimes their rupture. 
Also, by letting effete material remain to form the bulk of the 
blood, it renders that fluid unfit to supply new tissue, and pus, 
mucus, &c., are supplied instead. Pus is, in &ct, imperfect 
flesh strangled in its conception, bioplasm which has lost its 
plasticity. 

Our object then should be to keep" the blood in the highest 
health, by giving it all the nutriment it is capable of duly 
absorbing. The arguments used regarding general fevers 



274 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

apply more forcibly here, in that, the whole body not being so 
universally smitten with disease, the stomach (as we are often 
told by the appetite) retains much of its assimilative power, 
and is more likely to make a good use of what is given it than 
in the former case. 

When the desire for food is genuine and keen, there is no 
objection to the continuance of the ordinary allowance of 
animal and vegetable diet at the usual times. But care must 
be taken to notice that the appetite is real, and not a wish 
dependent on whim, habit, or the aim at appearing less ill 
than people suppose. 

The above rule, however, does not apply to stimulants. 
Beer, wine, or spirits, if allowed at all as a food or with food, 
must be restricted to smaller quantities than are taken in 
health. The patient's nutrition goes on better without them 
altogether, unless the state of the nervous system, as in fevers, 
should require the adventitious aid. (See last chapter.) 

When loss of appetite indicates that the powers of the 
stomach are in partial abeyance, then the nutrient administered 
should be liquid, easily convertible into chyle, and in frequent 
small doses, for the reasons before detailed. 

After surgical operations, and in many other cases where 
there is a tendency to a copious formation of pus, health is 
promoted by the use of fresh green vegetables and of lemonade, 
and of digestible finits, such as recently gathered gfrapes, 
currants, blackberries, barberries, or whortle-berries. Oranges 
and pomegranates are cooling to the mouth, and occupy 
agreeably many a dull minute in the eating. They are all 
wholesomer before food than after. 

Hitherto common, or non-specific, inflammation has been 
spoken of. When the inflammation has a specific character, 
a new element is introduced into the treatment, and the 
general rules above alluded to do not apply. 

In Acute Rheumatic Fever experience demonstrates that 
a nutrient analeptic diet retards recovery, and will even 
bring on a relapse during convalescence. It is a paiufnl 



INFLAMMATIONS. 275 

thing to restrain a patient from wholesome food when he 
craves for it, but in this instance it is our duty. If meat in 
any form, solid or liquid, be eaten, it seems to turn into lactic 
acid, which many think is already in excess in the rheumatic 
blood — ^at all events it adds to the quantity of organic acids in 
the body. The power of fully converting it into living flesh 
is wanting, and until this power is regained, a semi-conversion 
into the substance named takes place. The smell of sour milk 
in the skin of rheumatic fever patients is well known, and 
seems to support the theory alluded to. Meat augments it, 
and adds also to the acidity of the urine. The redder and 
more muscular the meat is, the more it disagrees. 

Vegetable food does not turn so copiously or so quickly 
acid; so that water gruel of oatmeal, grits or rice, soup 
meagre, jellies, spiced rice, plain boiled rice, panado and other 
various preparations of bread, mashed potatoes, porridge, 
arrowroot and semolina puddings, Oswego com, and the like, 
must be used to satisfy the mouths which often loudly com- 
plain of starvation. The cases which prosper are those where 
the appetite is keen, but has been denied any food beyond 
what is absolutely necessary to barely sustain life. The 
aqueous drinks should be alkaline. 

Even when the pains are gone and nature calls for the 
replacement of the lost flesh, the diet which promises most 
readily to replace it will sometimes bring on a relapse, and 
you must very cautiously go back to ' ordinary diet,' else you 
run a risk of eventually losing time by overmuch haste. 

But it cannot be said of acute rheumatism as of other 
cyclical fevers that the diet is the most important part of the 
treatment. The action of variations of temperature, especially 
in the direction of cold, is so extremely injurious in pirolonging 
the disease, increasing its painfulness, and endangering life by 
causing pericarditis, that indubitably a more paratnount value 
attaches to a scrupulous protection of the body against such 
changes. Freshness of air, so valuable in typhus and its 
allied states, is in this case a minor, very minor, oonsidQrQ.txQrck. 

T 2 



1276 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

compared with its steady warmth. You must be careful, even 
when making your daily stethoscopic examination, not to 
expose the chest to chill. A careless and dangerous doctor 
may always be known by his neglect of precaution in these 
cases. Chilling the skin of a rheumatic fever patient not 
only turns the rheumatic inflammation into fibrinous inflam- 
mation (as in pericarditis), but it also still further deteriorates 
the process of nutrition. After a chill you will see the urine 
become turbid from the deposit of lithates, the effete products 
of a deranged assimilation. Dieting the sick is useless unless 
appropriate means are adopted for securing the digestion of 
the diet. And the most essential means in rheumatic fever is 
attention to the temperature.* 

In Gout, during the acute access, the same restricted diet 
conduces to shortening the inflammation; but it is not so 
imperative, and when the general health has been weakened 
by previous attacks it cannot often be borne. The treatment 
of chronic gout and the gouty diathesis requires separate 
consideration. 

« 

80UJP Meagre. 

Take of butter half a pound. Put it in a deep stew-pan, 
place it on a gentle fire till it melts, shake it about, and let it 
stand till it has done making a noise ; have ready six medium- 
sized onions peeled and cut small, throw them in and shake 
them about. Take a bunch of celery, cut it in pieces about an 
inch long, a large handful of spinach cut small, and a little 
bundle of parsley chopped fine ; sprinkle these into the pan, 
and shake them about for a quarter of an hour ; then sprinkle 
in a little flour and stir it up. Pour into the pan two quarts 
of boiling water, and add a handfal of dry bread-crust broken 
in pieces, a teaspoonful of pepper, and three blades of mace 
beaten fine ; boil gently another half-hour. Then beat up the 

* I have enlarged more fully on this important subject in Lectures, 
Chiefly CUnwal, lectures »., xii., and xiii., 4th ed. 



INFLAMMATIONS. 277 

yolks of two eggs with ateaspoonfal of vinegar, and stir them 
in, and the soup is ready. 

The order in lyhich the ingredients are added is very 
important. 

Bread 8owp, 

Take the crust of a stale roll, cut it in pieces, and boil it 
well in a pint of water with a piece of butter as big as a wal- 
nut, stirring and beating them till the bread is mixed. Season 
with celery and salt. 

Alkaline Drmk, 

Cut the rind of a lemon very thin, and put it in a jug with 
a tablespoonful of powdered sugar-candy. Pour on it a little 
boiling water, and when it is dissolved, half a pint of Vichy 
water, and half a pint of common water. 

The Wliite Brink, (Becoction Blanche). 

Burnt hartshorn, powdered,' two ounces ; 
Gum arabic, an ounce and a half ; 
Water, three pints. 
Boil down to a pint, strain, and add sugar. 

Isinglass Jelly. 

Boil an ounce of isinglass and a dozen cloves (if liked) in 
a quart of water down to a pint. Strain hot through a flannel 
bag on to two ounces of sugar-candy, and flavour with a 
little angelica root, or two or three tablespoonfuls of Liqueur 
de la Grande Ghartreusey if cloves are not relished. 

Hartshorn Jelly. 

Boil half a pound of hartshorn shavings (not * raspings,' 
which are adulterated with bone dust) or an equal weight of 
ivory turnings, in three pints of water down to a pint, strain , 
and add three ounces of white sugar-candy, and an ounce of 
lemon juice. Heat again up to the boiling point. As a variety 



278 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

in flavouring, white Capri, Moselle, or champagne may be 
used in quantity not exceeding two tablespoonfuls. 

The gelatine derived from these sources claims no 
advantages over that obtained, as directed in cookery books, 
from calves' feet. But it is more soluble and digestible than 
if made from the ordinary * gelatine ' of the shops, which is 
manufactured from old bones, probably afber maceration in 
acid. There is something gained by using for invalids dishes 
difieriug in name and substance from those usually set before 
the robust, as it is thus easier to secure their being made 
properly, and not according to the traditions of the kitchen. 
A cook whose ' calves' feet jelly ' has been commended, will 
demur to receive a recipe for its ingredients from the doctor, 
but will allow him to be in his legitimate province when he 
orders hartshorn or isinglass — they are, or were lately, in 
the Pharmacopoeia. 

Bread Fuddmg (with Qgg). 

Take of crumbs of bread, 2 ounces ; 
New milk, ^ of a pint, boiling hot. 

Pour the hot milk on the bread, and let it stand about an 
hour covered up : then add the yolk of an egg^ well beaten ; 
then a teaspooufal of rose or orange flower water, a little 
nutmeg, and half an ounce of sugar. (Instead of sugar, some 
prefer salt.) Beat all up together. Tie up and boil or 
steam or bake three-quarters of an hour. 

Bread Piidding (without egg). 

Pour half a pint of boiling milk over a French roU, and 
let it stand, covered up, till it has soaked up the milk. Tie 
lightly in a cloth, and boil twenty minutes. 

Mutton Broth, 

^ lb. of neck of mutton, free from fat, 1 oz. of carrots, 
1 oz. of turnips, ^ oz. of onions, ^ oz. of barley. Boil first 



INFLAMMATIONS. 279 

the barley in ^ pint of water, for half an hour, and throw that 
water away ; then put the boiled barley and the meat in 1^ 
pint of water ; boil and skim for a qnarfcer of an hour ; then 
add the vegetables, and boil till the meat is tender. To make 
J. J pint of broth. 

Eose Tea. 

Take of red rose-buds (the white heels being taken off) 

half an ounce ; 
White wine vinegar, three tablespoonfuls ; 
White sugar-candy, one ounce. 
Put them in two pints of boiling water, and let them stand 
near a fire for two hours, then strain. 

Similar acid drinks may be made of apple jelly, guava 
jelly, damson cheese, or syrup of gooseberries, barberries, &c., 
and a variety is always agreeable. 

Sage Tea. 

Take of leaves of green sage, plucked from the stalks 

and washed cleau, half an ounce ; 
Sugar, one ounce ; 

Outer rind of lemon peel, finely pared from the white, 
quarter of an ounce. 
Put them in two pints of boiling water, let them stand 
near the fire half an hour, then strain. 

Whpn the sage is dried, it must be used in rather less 
quantity than above mentioned. 

In the same manner teas may be made of rosemary, balm, 
southern-wood, &c., and are convenient to prevent a thirsty 
patient taking too much tea and coffee when not good for 
him. The use of acid is also avoided. 

Oatmeal Tea, 

Take of oatmeal a handful ; 
Boiling water a gallon. 
Mix in a deep vessel. Let the oatmeal subside, which it 



280 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

docs in half an lionr, and ponr off the tea. By this process 
hard water is made digestible. 

The main difference between these recipes and those given 
at the close of the last chapter is, that nntrition is not made 
an object. When it is desired, the same means are available 
as have been already advised in lower fevers. 



281 



CHAPTER ni. 

THE DIET AND EEGIMEN OP WEAK DIGESTION. 

Chronic deficiency of power in the stomach, atonic dyspepsia, 
is evidenced by a sense of uneasy distension in the front of the 
waist, coming on an hour or so after food, and qften lasting 
till it is temporarily relieved by the next meal or by sleep. 
There is no sharp pain on pressure — indeed, gentle rubbing 
seems to give relief. The sensation hardly ever amounts to 
pain, except in highly nervous or hysterical persons, or where 
a great formation of air gives rise to coUcky spasms. Portions 
of undigested food are apt to regurgitate, and are rancid with 
butyric acid. This occurs at a later period after food than 
the more familiar * acidity,' or sensitiveness to the normal 
acidity of the stomach, which is found in nervous hypersBsthetic 
persons. 

Constipation, or what is called * sluggish liver,' is often a 
symptom which attracts the notice of a patient and brings him 
to a physician. And most cases have been already much 
aggravated by the attempt to obviate the inconvenience with 
the aid of purgative drugs. The constipation really arises 
from the extension of the want of tone in the stomach to the 
secretions and propulsive movements of the intestines, and 
the habitual indulgence in opening medicine increases this. 
From want of tone, also, the ilia and colon dilate, and are 
blown up with retained air. And the dilatation causes pain, 
especially in the waist and under the shoulder-blades. 

If regular, the evacuations are pale, scanty, and unformed. 
Should any excess in eating nitrogenous food be committed. 



282 DIET IN SICKHfSS. 

there ifl sometimes a temporary diarrhoea and fetop in what 
oomcs from the bowels. Sometimes the looseness is almost 
constant. 

This condition of the digestive canal is well demonstrated 
by the aspect of the tongae, the lips, and the gams. They 
are pale, and retain the impress of anything pressed npon 
them, and easily bleed. So that the tongue bears marks of 
the teeth along its edge, and the eflforts of swallowing elongate 
the nvnla. Sometimes streaks of blood which have exuded 
are hawked up, and the tickling of the glottis by the lax 
pendent uvula causes a cough, and the patient is alarmed by 
the fear of pulmonary consumption. 

Palpitation of the heart, and sometimes intermission of the 
pulse, are noticed, especially where the flatulence is great. 
The pulsation is rapid on excitement, but is sofb and slow 
during repose. 

The urine, as a rule, is pale and watery, with a low specific 
gravity, indicating thus, by the deficiency of urea, an imperfect 
nutrition. The phosphates are also deficient, but still form a 
cloud when the fluid is subjected to heat, showing its abnor- 
mal deficiency of acid. Care must be taken that these cha- 
racteristics of the renal secretion do not arouse a fallacious 
fear of Bright* s disease in the kidney. 

The intellectual faculties do not appear to be impaired, 
but there is a heaviness and disinclination for exertion which in- 
duces the patient to say they are, as an excuse for his sluggish- 
ness. If sleep be indulged in during the day, it is unrefresh- 
ing, and often leaves headache and weariness behind it. 

In the case of atonic dyspepsia, I have departed from the 
general plan of this little volume in giving details of the 
symptoms of the disease, because these symptoms have each 
a decided bearing on the dietetic treatment. The first-named 
group of sensations appear to depend on the quantity which 
is taken at once, and are much less perceived when small and 
frequent meals are made the rule. These moderate meals 
during the day should be reinforced by a light supper on going 



. . WEAK DIGESTION. 283^ 

• •• 

to "bed. AndTthe period of waiting before breakfast may be 

made less exhaTisting by a cup of milk with a teaspoonful of 

rum in it. 

Fluids should be drunk in moderation, and never at the- 
commencement of the meal. For over-dilution weakens the 
gastric juice, which is scanty at first ; but when it is poured 
out more copiously, fluids assist the onward motion of the- 
chyme through the pylorus, and obviate that delay which* 
gives rise to the feeling of uneasiness. 

The nature of the food is of less importance than its-- 
quantity ; but still it has an influence. Rich, greasy sauces^ 
are especially to be avoided; for, meeting in the stomach 
with the acidifying remnants of the former meal, they rapidly 
undergo the butyric fermentation and turn rancid. No acid 
is so disagreeable to the stomach and oesophagus as the butyric j. 
and therefore, when this forms, relief is often experienced on 
stopping that form of fermentation by another acid. A few 
drops of diluted phosphoric or muriatic acid, a teaspoonful of 
lemon juice, or even a piece of sour apple, or a little Chili 
vinegar, often palliate the distress. But the wisest course is. 
to avoid the cause. 

The bill of fare should be varied from day to day, but as 
simple as possible at each meal. Considerable comfort is often 
gained by dividing the animal from the vegetable food, taking 
one at one meal and the other at another. Vegetable food 
is much less likely to cause flatulence if taken alone. 

Vegetables should not be omitted from the dietary, or the 
future health will suffer. But such should be selected a& 
cause least inconvenience, and the mode of dressing them 
adjusted and experimented upon till the patient finds how 
much and how many suit his peculiarities. Spinach can 
almost always be borne either chopped up, or served as 
cabbage, or in soup. And so generally can tomatoes, squashes^ 
vegetable marrows. Elector's caps, salsify, scorzonera, beet- 
root, and French beans. Peas must be very young and soft. 
Potatoes must be old, and cooked according to the recipe in 



"284 DIET IN SICKfeBSS. 

tho last chapter bat one. Of cauliflower only the friable 
white flower is flt for eating. 

Baw fmit should never be eaten at the end of a meal. 
Bnt roast apples, if taken with a little cream and hardlj any 
sugar, are digestible enough. Between meals or as a separate 
mea], a bunch of grapes, a few strawberries, currants, or 
raspberries with a crust of bread, aid rather than impede 
digestion. 

All bread should be stale or toasted. The best is that 
which is closest grained and most friable. If the teeth are 
sufficiently sound, crust is preferable to crumb. Biscuits 
should be made with water, and not sweet. Of other 
&rinaceous food it may be remarked that almost all depends 
on the cooking. Pastry, from its mechanical texture, is very 
slow of solution, and should be cut out of the bill of fare 
altogether ; but the same flour made into bread pudding can 
generally be tolerated without inconvenience. Semolina, 
tapioca, and arrowroot are a safe yariefy. 

Cheese after dinner always disagrees. Bnt it is nutritious, 
and is often missed much by the patient. If so, let him. try 
it toasted as a separate meal. It should be quite new, cut 
into thin slices buttered and basted while toasting with a little 
cream. Let it be brought up on a hot- water plate, and not 
allowed to become hard and tough. 

Meat should be eaten twice a day. It ought not to be 
cooked a second time. A table of precedence in comparative 
digestibiliiy is given in a former part of this volume,* which, 
as far as tlie butcher's meat and game are concerned, is ap- 
plicable to the selection of food in atonic dyspepsia. If 
anyone can extend his acquaintance as &>r as ' roast beef,' he 
may consider that he is not an atonic dyspeptic. 

The wholesomest fish for weak digestions are boiled 
flounders, whiting, haddock, sole, plaice, brill, perch, among 
which a free choice may be made. Cod must be taken with 
more caution. It, however, bears cooking by dry heat better 

» Page 114. 



WEAK DIGESTION. 285'- 

than the aforenamed, and if well done in cutlets suits delicate 
stomachs often better than the others. Rich and oily-fleshed 
fishes, snch as eels, herrings, pilchards, sprats, salmon, mullet, 
and those of very firm texture, such as tnrbot, tunny, pike,, 
had best not be attempted by invalids at all. The condiment 
should be a squeeze of lemon or Duke of York's pepper sauce. 

It must be observed that so powerfal is the influence of 
the mind over the body that nothing is more conmion than 
for persons to exhibit wonderfiil idiosyncrasies respecting their 
capability of digesting peculiar articles of food. Those who 
have a strong will seem able by perseverance to use them- 
selves to assimilate almost anything assimilable. The 
gratification of desire puts the nervous system into a state- 
most favourable to the secretion of gastric juice, and the 
thwarting of a prejudice, however whimsical, upsets temper • 
and stomach at the same time. 

Some dyspeptics get into a bad habit of erasing from their- 
future bill of fare everything that has once seemed to be- 
followed by inconvenience. The result is an unwholesome 
monotony of wrongly-selected victuals, and a despairing 
resignation to a needless abstinence. Let them on the other- 
hand take the more hopefal course of adding to their dietary 
everything that they have once found to agree, and they will 
have a choice nearly as extensive as their robust brethren 
could wish. If one cook cannot make a coveted article diges- 
tible, let them try another. 

Sugar at the latter end of meals certainly generates an 
excess of organic acids, and is to be avoided. But yet, in 
moderation, it promotes (as observed by Blondlot) the flow 
of gastric juice ; so that the custom adopted by Oriental 
nations ^ of taking a few bonbons and sweeties is in accord- 
ance with reason, and might prudently be experimented on 
in this country. An excellent dietetic fillip to the appetite is 
a couple of pepsine lozenges, or the same quantity made into 
pills with sugar. 

' See Kawlinson's notes to Herodotus^ b. i. « 



1286 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Fermented liqnors in atonic dyspepsia are apt to caose a 
'Congestive flnshing of the brain, fioce, and neck, and a throb- 
bing of the arteries. This may be viewed as an external 
evidence of what is going on nnfelt in the abdomen. If these 
symptoms are prominent, a state of things is indicated not at 
all favourable to digestion, and we may be snre that alcoholic 
-stimnlants, in the qutmtity taken^ are injnrions. Bat that does 
not prove that in less qoantity, or more dilute, they may not 
be beneficial. There is a quantity, capable of being* arrived at 
in each separate case by experiment, par la vote cTexckuim, 
which just succeeds in stimulating the appetite withont flush- 
ing the face. Very small, indeed, that quantiiy is sometimes; 
yet it is an actnal measurable quantity, not ' infinitesimal.' It 
has a genuine physiological effect, to be accounted for by its 
H>bserved action on the nervous system, and missed when it is 
not taken. I have known, for instance, the small sip of wine 
drunk at the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper to make a 
^decided difference for good in the digestion of an immediately 
following meal. 

If a patient has the common sense to regulate himself 
.according to the forementioned guide, there is not mnch need 
for interfering with the nature of the vintage he patronises. 
Port, Burgundy, and dry sherry agree if limited to table- 
spoonfuls. But if he persists in neglecting the warning, then 
we should persuade him to take claret, hock, or Capri. Not 
that these are really better for him, but they are more dilute. 
Beer, sweet champagne, and sparkling wines in general, 
:almost always give rise to fermentation. Some persons find 
it suits them not to have any alcoholic drink during the day, 
but to take a glass of hot whisky toddy on retiring to rest. 

Tea is most refreshing to the dyspeptic if made in the 
Russian fashion, with a slice of lemon on which a little sugar 
candy has been sprinkled, instead of milk or cream. One 
nsmall cup of an evening is enough, and at break&st its place 
is well taken by cocoa made from the nibs. 

Constipation is effectually obviated by the habitual employ- 



WEAK DIGESTION. 287 

ment of green vegetables, porridge, brown bread, charcoal, 
and a few other articles of diet containing a good deal of nn- 
irritative matter which yet is not dissolved by the solvents. 
Olive oil and mustard also assist in effecting the same object. 
But it is better to allow the continuance of constipation than 
to administer purgatives, and it is wise from the first to try 
and disabuse your patients of the fallacy that the bowels not 
open every twenty-four hours are in mischief. 

Where there is a looseness, from the food passing away 
undigested, a few drops of laudanum at night will often give 
it a chance of solution by detaining it in the bowels. 

' Stomach cough ' and * Stomach sore throat,' described at 
the beginning of the chapter, are best treated by not sitting 
down to breakfast without having gargled the throat with 
alum- water, or sprinkled the back of the fauces with dilute 
hydro-sulphurous acid. If the mouth is foul and the breath 
heavy of a morning, a cleansing with a weak wash of Condy's 
solution is also a good preliminary to eating. 

Palpitation of the heart and of the abdominal aorta are 
almost always made worse by special remedies directed to 
them, because the thoughts are thereby induced to concentrate 
themselves on the suffering organs. They do not lead to any 
organic affection, and are useful as an index to the improve- 
ment or decline of the patient. 

A low specific gravity of the urine is an indication for the 
use of tonic medicines. An abnormally high specific gravity 
shows that more vegetables should be eaten. 

When the medical attendant thinks fit in a case of atonic 
dyspepsia to order quinine and strychnine, alone or in combina- 
tion, or iodide of potassium, care should be exercised not to 
eat within an hour before or after, as the mixing of the drug 
with food in the stomach diminishes the efficiency of both. 
But rhubarb or aloes, in the exceptional cases where they are 
advisable, may be used with advantage along with the meal ; 
while pepsine is beneficial only in that combination, and iron 
should be taken by itself after food. It is right, however^ to 



288 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

nay iron rarely raits well for long together. Cod-liver oil, ft 
good dietetic tonic in some instances of this form of disease, 
agrees best the last thing at night, and made up with a little 
soda and milk. Dnriog the day, it is apt to tnm rancid, and 
retnm nnpleasantI3^ Aromatics (such as teas or infusions of 
cloves, cinnamon, horse-radish, canella, and calnmba), as also 
bitters (8nch as quassia, hops, and wormwood), are use&l only 
just before meals. I have seldom found mere bitters do good. 
The emplo^-ment of alkaline mineral waters containing 
soda, especially Apollinaris and dilute Yichj -water, is some- 
times a great comfort. The only way in which we can explain 
this is that alkalies, as observed by Corvisart, by a sort of 
antagonism augment the secretion of gastric juice. They 
should be drunk, then, at the commencement of the meal, and 
not afterwards, when they would neutralise what is already 
secreted. 

Mineral acids, the most digestible of which is the phos- 
phoric, are best on a full stomach. 

As respects the general regimen, it should be of a bracing 
character. As much time as possible should be spent in the 
open air, but exercise should not be carried to the point of 
producing over-fatigue. Riding in company, especially the 
company of ladies, is perfection ; but bowls, archery, croquet, 
and lawn tennis, are not to be despised as wholesome amuse- 
ments. Along with moderate exercise, sound rest, especially 
at night, in a quiet bed, should be secured ; but coddling in 
hot rooms, sleeping by day, and giving way to slight feelings 
of discomfort, or the avoidance of society under pretence of 
fearing fatigue, must be discouraged. 

An excellent device for invigorating the circulation, 
especially for women, is to take the morning bath by sitting 
in warm water and having a bucket of cold water poured 
down the spine from the nape of the neck, and then being 
rubbed dry immediately with a rough dried towel. 

The quality of the water used by atonic dyspeptics is a 
matter of serious consideration. Hard chalky water produces 



I 



WEAK DIGESTION. 289 

flatulence, and frequently a grinding neuralgic pain in the 
epigastrium, so long as its use is persisted in; and the 
brighter and more sparkling it is, the worse it seems to agree. 
Chalybeate waters, as a daily drink, though the taste of iron 
be very slight in them, m a few months produce a peculiar 
debility and ansemia ; even though at first, and when taken 
as a medicine for a short course, they had exhibited quite an 
opposite effect. 

The best places of residence are high, dry, and bracing. 
The air of the Surrey and Sussex Downs, or sach a combina- 
tion of heather, fir- woods, and a sandy soil, as is to be found 
on Ascot Heath, seem the best specimens one can quote. It 
may be added that the last-named enjoys the advantage of a 
chalybeate spring, a short course of which will benefit those 
cases where atonic dyspepsia has induced scantiness of the 
evacuations peculiar to women or strongly marked anaemia. 
It agrees better than other forms of steel ; which, as previously 
noticed, is seldom well tolerated in pure atonic dyspepsia. 

The cookery in cases of this complaint can hardly be too 
simple. The appetite should not be tempted by savoury 
compounds, but by so preparing the article that its peculiar 
taste should be made prominent and attractive, and at the 
same time its texture made more soluble and digestible. The 
chapter on cookery in the first part of this work may supply 
a few hints, and the few recipes that follow are efforts in the 
same direction. 

Duke of YorFs Universal Sauce, 
(Pepys' Diary, February 10, 1668-9.) 

Pound hard dried toast and a tablespoonful of pepper- 
corns in a mortar, and boil them with an equal quantity of 
chopped parsley (or any other herb liked) and a dessert-spoonful 
of salt in a small teacupful of water. Add a teaspoonful of 
white vinegar. Tarragon vinegar, or lemon juice. 



u 



290 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Relish far Fi$h. 

Fish iR znndo moro digcRiible and haa its flavour brought 
out by a few drops of lemon jniee squeezed over it. 

White Mayonncuse Sauce. 

Put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a small basin ; break 
it np fine with a wooden spoon, adding a pinch of salt and a 
pinch of pepper. Then keep on stirring briskly, while you 
pour in, drop by drop, the best sweet olive oil to the extent of 
about two dozen teaspoonfuls. With each eighth teaspoonfnl 
of oil, add a teaspoonful of white vinegar. Tarragon vinet^ar, 
elder vinegar, or otherwise seasoned vinegar can be used by 
those who like them ; or a tablespoonfol of French mustard 
may be added. 

Boiled Fhtmders. 

Put the flounders in a stewpan with a moderate quantity 
of boiling water, seasoned with a little salt ; take oflT the scum, 
and continue the boiling ten minutes. Drain the fish on a 
fish-plate before the fire, and serve. 

Bice Milk (Gouffe). 

Blanch in plenty of water, 2 J ozs. of best Carolina rice; 

Cool with plenty of cold water, and drain ; 

Boil 3 pints of milk in a 2-quart stewpan ; 

Mix the rice in the milk, and stir on the fire till boiling ; 

Add a lump of sugar and a small pinch of salt— -say ^ oz. 

of each; 
Boil for an hour ; serve. 

Other milk soups — vermicelli, semolina, tapioca, &c. are 

prepared in the same way, and form an excellent light 
supper. 



\ 



WEAK DIGESTION. 291 



Potato Surprise. 

Scoop out the inside of a sound potato, leaving the skin 
attached on one side to the hole, as a lid. Mince up fine the 
lean of a juicy mutton chop, with a little salt and pepper, 
put it in the potato, pin down the lid, and bake or roast. 
Before serving (in the skin), add a little hot gravy, if the 
mince seems too dry. 



:-ti 



I) 






■!<•■" 



>»« 



^f 



r.l'" 
i • 

ft 

rj y 



293 



CHAPTER IV. 

GOUT AND^ BHEUMATISM. 

There can be no sort of doubt that good clieer indulged in, 
either by himself or his ancestors^ is the principal cause of 
every man's gout. Even where it is hereditary, the patient 
will generally be found to have assisted in bringing it on by 
his own love of evil things. The cases where it is traceable 
to lead poison, peculiar exposure to cold and damp, and a 
few other rare causes, need not trouble us much, as when they 
do occur their pathology is very obvious. 

But if it is due to good cheer, shall we not be able to 
detect the identical article or articles out of whose pleasant 
substance is made the scourge to lash us ? Shall we not be 
able, by excluding this, to enjoy the cup without the bitter 
drop at the end of it ? 

Those of our fellow-citizens who drink champagne,, port, 
Madeira, sherry, Burgundy, London porter, are the most,, of 
all the population, disposed to have gout.. These liquors 
contain' a peculiarly large proportion of alcohol; and so, 
exclaim the growers of light wines and total abstainers^ 
alcohol is the cause of gout. But wait — observe the Glasgow 
labourer and the Irish peasant, and the Swede and Russ, who 
consume in the form of spirits six times the amount of alcohol 
that we do. They are quite free from gout. 

Is it the acid in these drinks ? Hardly — for they really 
do not contain any marked excess. Or the sugar ? No — or 
sweetened tea would be equally noxious. 



294 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Or is it tbo pccnliar oombination of all those ? Possiblj. 
Bat I tliiuk a more rational explanation is that the cksaes 
who are rich enough to enjoy these Inxnries are rich enough 
to enjoy other luxuries also. In fiict, the cases of gout 
originating in the individual himself, without his being able 
to throw any blame upon his pedigree, occur in those who 
dail}** consume a larger quantity of nutritious food than their 
bodies require, or than can, by the assimilative powers the^ 
possess, be converted into useful muscle. Hence there is an 
accumulation of oxidisable matters which fail to attain the 
end of their chemical transformations, which do not become 
urea. So that there remains in the system an excess of them, 
•especially of uric acid, convertible into urate of soda, the 
characteristic deposit in gout. Other contributors to the 
production of gout run hand in hand with the over-eating of 
meat, rather than with indulgence in fermented liquors only. 
Laziness can hardly be dissociated from gluttony — ^picture 
the latter, and you picture the former. And laziness can 
' easily be understood to act in the same direction, by arresting 
the oxidation whicli is the result of due exercise. Immoral 
self-indulgence of another sort aids the development of gont 
by the exhaustion of the nervous system which it inditces 
without corresponding muscular action.^ And the same may 
be remarked of intellectual pursuits, a love for which has 
been noticed frequently to go along with gout, and which 
tempts the possessor to use his brain and let his limbs lan- 
guish. Damp cold also, by weakening and retarding the 
circulation, helps in a minor degree the evil effects of gorging 
the digestive organs with nitrogenous food. Such seems to me 
the history of the origination of gont in the constitution. 

The part played by fermented liquors seems rather the 
bringing on of the acute attack, of which almost all habitual 
sufferers can cite an instance. One man takes some port wine, 
which he has left off for years, and the same night is woke up 

* AvctfifKovs BAkxov Ka\ \v<rifi€\ovs 'Ac^poSfrrys 
r^vvoTOi Bvydrrip XvcriueX^s Ho^dypCL. — Anthol. CrrtBca. 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 295 

with tlie horribly familiar stab in the small joints. Another 
drinks a few glasses of champagne, and feels his foot twinge 
and swell before he leaves the table. 

This consequence of an nnhabitual excess is of the greatest 
importance in diagnosis. For we may lay it down as uni- 
versally true that when a few glasses of wine or beer are 
followed soon by the inflammation of a joint or pain in a trunk 
nerve, the inflammation or pain is of a gouty nature.' 

The views above stated as to the origin of gout can sug- 
gest but one line of preventive treatment. The children of 
gouty families should be brought up to a life of strict abstemi- 
ousness and muscular activity — *to scorn delights and live 
laborious days.' They must not compound for temperance in 
alcohol by indulgence in dainty meats, sweet pastry, soft beds, 
or idleness. At the same time I would not encourage them 
to an ambitious athleticism, to glorying too much in their 
strength. The result of this very often causes a reactionary 
depression at the period of middle life, which persons here- 
ditarily healthy can resist, but which, in the case of those with 
ancestral tendency to gout, developes the disease. 

From the earliest years, vegetables should form a con- 
siderable portion of the dietary. They should be furnished in 
great variety, so that the young may acquire a taste and a 
digestion for them. The various sorts of * meagre ' (or meat- 
less) soups found in cookery books, and others which an 
inventive mind will suggest, should be habitual. Porridge 
for breakfast may be taken to any amount — what men are 
grown upon it in Northumberland and the North of York- 
shire ! And in buttermilk will be found the best quencher of 
the thirst and nourishing digester of other victuals as well 
as itself. As they grow up, the young people should be 
impressed with the reason of this temperance, and urged to 
persevere in it, not only for their own sakes, but as a moral 
duty for the sake of their descendants. A man has alright to 
choose for himself one of two paths, but he has no right to 

* Cyr, de VJlimentatitm, part ii. chap. \\. q.t\<\c\.^ \. 



296 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

lead involnntary followers along that which seems the plea- 
santeet at tho moment. 

If the tackling with the disease by diet and regimen be 
undertaken only after the development of it has taken place, 
the task is mach more difiicnlt, bat not a fair subject for 
despair. Dr. Grarrod, than whom none has sought more 
diligently for medicinal remedies for gout, or more advanced 
our knowledge of its pathology, says that ' if a gouty man 
could entirely lay aside his usual habits, and follow in all 
respects the dictates of nature, there would probably be little 
need to seek relief from medicine.'* By ' nature ' must be 
meant the higher nature, reason or common sense ; for man's 
desires are so perverted by the prejudices of education, and 
by moral and physical inheritance, that one cannot well trast 
to their guidance in the treatment of disease. But by rational 
management, it seems pretty certain that gout may be so fitr 
checked as will enable the patient to enjoy life, to live to his 
full term, and to hand down an untainted constitution to his 
successors. 

An honest trial must be made, for three months at least, 
of an entire abstinence from all alcohol, except a little weak 
claret and water at dinner. If in that time weight is gained, 
or not lost, lot the rule of abstinence be established for good 
and all. 

If it is found that alcohol cannot, in the judgment of a 
competent temperate medical man, be left off", it will be best 
to take, as the habitual form of it, hollands and soda water. 
The quantity of spirit should never exceed a small wine- 
glassful, and should be taken either at dinner, or, in cases of 
sleeplessness, at bed-time, but not at both. 

Meat should be eaten but once a day. In other respects 
the advice given in the last chapter as to food and cookery 
may be held valid for gouty persons as well as atonic dyspep- 
tics. The obedience of the cook to orders is of paramount 
importance ; and it ^dll be well also to warn our patient not 
* Eeynolds' System of Medicine t vol. i. p. 875. 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 297 

to be trying this or that dish as good for gout, at the bidding 
of officious friends, but to use his own judgment, usually 
sounder than theirs and also strengthened by self-interest. 

The digestion of gouty persons is usually much improved 
by a winter sojourn in the dry warm air of the islands and 
highlands which get the benefit of Mediterranean breezes. 
I am unwilling to injure one place by mentioning another, 
and am disposed rather to enlarge upon the general qualities 
by which that great nurse of the civilisation of the human 
race, the Mediterranean, can earn still that gratitude, though 
we are out of her leading strings. 

Without seeking for recondite cosmic influences, take the 
map of Europe, and consider the obvious characters of the 
waves and winds. The supply of fresh water brought by 
rivers to the Mediterranean is very much less than that which 
comes by the Gulf Stream from the Polar glaciers to the 
Atlantic. It is therefore Salter, and would be Salter still, and 
in course of generations all salt, were not a vast stream of 
Atlantic water flowing in through the Straits of Gibraltar. 
Being Salter, it is more ready to remove moisture from the 
air. and less ready to part with it to the air under varying 
temperatures than the ocean which surrounds us at home. Its 
temperature also is more equalised throughout ; there are 
not, as with us, hot and cold streams the vapours from which 
meet in the air and precipitate their watery burden on the 
earth. So that the atmosphere is, in the first place, clearer, 
or has a minor degree of hygrometric saturation, than in the 
British Isles, and in the second place is less rainy. 

Of course there is rain, and of course there is east wind 
and north wind in Italy as elsewhere ; but there is not that 
continuous depressing influence of the combination of a cold 
wind with a saturated air which we have. Then the avoid- 
ance of these black un-Italian days does not involve an im- 
prisonment of a week or two in the house ; and, in travelling, 
a change of residence of a few miles wiU often put you com- 
pletely under shelter. Those who go abroad with ocl <^V^- 



298 DIET IK SICKNESS. 

faHliion<'(l guide-book, or take their ideas of Italy from the 
qnecr little pictnrcB in blue bodj colonr that used to adorn 
our nunterieH, may be found grumbling^, but those who have 
ever trieil to travel in England, and have the &ciiliy of com- 
parison, will be well content. >yhen they see the de^ indigo 
horizon, the mark of extra saltness in ooean^ 'which so gene- 
rally bounds the traveller's landscape in Mediterranean lands, 
they will bless it for the clear air of which it is not only the 
indication but the cause. 

The high temperature of the great body of water, so 
intimately intermingled with the land, preserves that of the 
air from the variations which we experience. This is of 
course most especially the case on the coast, but even inland 
it may be experienced. The sole exception is that of certain 
Hpots in the immediate vicinity of snow-clothed mountains, 
the air blowing over which in the early spring is much chilled 
So that in such places as Florence, for example, a change of 
iTvind from a sea breeze to a Tramontana may cause a very 
sudden fall of the thermometer. But yet the even tempera- 
ture of Italy as a whole, compared with England as a whole, 
must be allowed ; its exposed climates are less variable than 
our exposed climates, and its sheltered nooks more completely 
sheltered than ours. 

There is a higher amount and degree of sunlight than in 
our skies, so that all the chemical actions in the animal body 
must be intensified. A conspicuous evidence of this is the 
readiness with which the skin of the face becomes tanned even 
in the short and fresh winter days. 

Again, the nervous system is much more awake to the 
effects of alcohol ; so that instinctively less quantities are 
taken to produce the required effects. There are south of the 
Alps very few, if any, water drinkers ; but there are also very 
few indeed who indulge in strong drink. One does not * feel 
to want it.* A single glass of Orvieto or Capri there seems 
to produce as much exhilarating relief as an allowance of the 
domestic port or sherry containing five times the quantity of 



GOUT AND EHEUMATISM. 299 

spirit. And not only is it felt snperflnoTis, but positive dis- 
comfort is felt as the immediate effect of what appear to a 
stranger moderate doses of alcohol. 

A corresponding observation may be made in respect of 
animal food. Less is hankered after by the invalid, and, 
moreover, a less rich or fat meat than in England. Without 
a failure of appetite, he yet feels satisfied with a smaller 
quantity. 

In Italy and Spain sleep is less profound, and easier shaken 
off and dispelled by slight disturbances. This light and short 
repose is soon found to be the custom of the country, and the 
mind being set at rest is satisfied with it. 

There are no lands where there is so much variety to 
divert the mind from preying on its own thoughts as these. 
It may be doubted whether the past, the present, or the future 
offers most to attract the attention. If none of the strata of 
historical relics interest the traveller, he can still hardly help 
feeling their present picturesqueness, and the loveliness of 
the forms and colours by which they are surrounded; while 
to the social or political observer the spectacle of a naturally 
intellectual and industrious people, long restrained by unto- 
ward circumstances, and now at length bursting out for good 
and for evil into new life, is unique. He desires to live, were 
it only to see what becomes of them. 

Now reflect how these various agencies may act on the 
human body. The dryness of air, without excessive heat or 
cold, renders it unnecessary for mucous membranes to put on 
their slimy coats of mucus. They are in a more active 
condition for the work of absorbing oxygen, digesting, ex- 
tracting nutriment or water, or whatever else they are re- 
quired to do. They are filled with blood, and pass it on 
rapidly with its fresh burden of renewed life to the tissues. So 
that the disintegration and removal of the effete products that 
cause gout is actively promoted. 

The evenness of temperature renders it possible for all, 
invalids included, to be a great deal in the oi^^tjl^yc^ ^sA.Hs6i«.a 



300 DIET m SICKNESS. 

the exercise which has been described as so essential to those 
of gouty constitution. 

The action of sunlight in reddening the blood is familiar 
to oven the poets. The etiolated plant of northern climes is 
quickly by it rendered crisp and hardy, and the same effect 
may be inferred to take place in the etiolated animal. It is 
of great importance in atonic gout. 

Spite of all the arguments of philanthropists, aloohol will 
always remain an evil necessity to brain- working popnlations 
in northern climes. I do not know but that its occasional 
use is a necessity in all climes. But certainly a little goes 
farther in the south, and therefore less is requisite, if any. 
Thus is avoided the temptation to the slight daily excess, 
which is the most dangerous temptation to the gouty. 

It is not alone on the passing traveller that Italy's special 
(I will not call it * fatcde) dono di bellezza ' acts. There is 
scarce a peasant who is not proud of the external aspect of 
his country,^ and I am not at all sure that this- feeling 
is not as powerful an assistant as any material agency in 
enabling him to live and flourish contentedly on what 
would starve or drive into melancholy madness an English 
convict or pauper. Do not set down this as sentimen- 
talism or artistic whim. Consider how continually the 
converse of the experiment is impressed upon ns by blue- 
books and sanitary reporters, who are constantly repeating 
that a motLotonous colourless life, such as flnds its exagge- 
rated type in solitary confinement, renders absolutely requi- 
site an excessive quantity, and under other conditions an 
unwholesomely stimulating quality, of food, to preserve in 
health the mind and body, although no complaint is made by 

* A genuine Italian will often prefer his country's praises to his own in 
whimsical ways. At Salerno we commended a souffle to a waiter, who was 
the author of the delicacy : ' Call that well made ? * said he ; * why every 
little lad in Salerno can make as good a one — Si, signori, ogni ragazz* di 
dieci anni nella cittA — and there are thirty thousand inhabitants ! ' Untrue 
of course, but patriotic. 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 301 

the sufferer. Why then should it not be true that the daily- 
life among picturesque and cheery scenes saves the victuals, 
although the benefited are ignorant of their blessings ? 

But it is indubitably for the stranger, as Filicaja complains 
in his touching sonnet, that this banquet of sweets is princi- 
pally spread. The temporary resident profits more than the 
native by the fair scenes and their associations, by their 
ennobling and rousing effect on the mind, and through the 
mind on the body. They have for him the additional charm 
of variety and novelty. 

I have dwelt somewhat lengthily on the effects of a warm 
tonic climate in this chapter, not because its benefits are ex- 
clusively or even principally confined to the gouty, but to 
finish up the subject as a whole, and be enabled, when speaking 
of other diseases, merely to refer to it. 

The most expedient form of exercise for a gouty person is 
riding, as he will not be deterred from it by a little tenderness 
of foot or ankle so often as if he only walks. 

Gouty persons suffer frequently from relaxed, sluggish 
piles, especially when travelling. The best regiminal treat- 
ment for them is to take some cayenne pepper with food as an 
astringent to the mucous membrane of the rectum, and to not 
only wash the external orifice, but to dash quite cold water 
against it till a glow of reaction is felt in the bowels, every 
time after the bowels have been opened. A full supply of 
green vegetables in the dietary should be secured. 

I cannot recommend that the malaise which gouty persons 
often feel for a considerable period, no better and no worse, 
should be put an end to by a debauch productive of an acute 
attack. It possibly may hasten the advent of the attack, but 
there is no proof of its bringing the end of it any nearer. 
Whereas other treatment, which it is not the place to discuss 
here, accomplishes both objects, and gives a chance of escape 
altogether. 

Timid sufferers will sometimes demand spirits * to keep the 
gout out of the stomach,' as they say. Now real gouty 



302 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

gastritis is a very terrible malady. I had once tlie oppor- 
tunity of examining the stomach of a debanchee who died of it, 
and found the mncons membrane in a state exactly resem- 
bling that produced by oxalic acid. This, however much to 
be dreaded, is not likely to be kept off by alcohol. But in 
point of fact such affections of the stomach are very rare, and 
when they do occur, do not appear to be retrocedent, or to 
arise from repulsion of the external inflammation into the 
viscera, but to be an extension of the morbid process, and to 
bear the same relation to gout that pericarditis bears to 
rheumatic fever. So that one does not see how aoiything but 
harm can be done by alcohol. 

In spite of its rarity, it is curious how much patients talk 
about *gout in the stomach.' I have often thought that 
medical men must have called by that name attacks of acute 
dyspepsia from indigestible food, or of windy spasms, or of 
gastric neuralgia. These last are likely enough to happen to 
the gouty, but differ nowise in their requirements from the 
same ailments occurring in others. 

The regimen of Rheumatic Gout does not vary except in 
the details, which must be suited to each individual case, from 
that of Gout. 

Chronic Rheumatism, or the rhewmatics^ seldom need lay a 
patient up, if he will adopt the simple dietetic expedient of 
eating a certain quantity of fresh mustard with every meal 
much if he is worse than usual, a little if he is pretty comfort- 
able. He should avoid bathing in cold water, which, will tend 
to derange his digestion. 

We must, however, carefully make the diagnosis in each 
instance between chronic rheumatism, which is a disease of 
the fibrous tissues, and neuralgic pains, which run along the 
lines of the nerves. The latter are not unfrequently benefited 
by cold water, and are aggravated by warmth, especially by a 
hot bed. Medicinal treatment is here essential. 



303 



CHAPTER Y. 

GRAVEL, STONE, ALBUMINURIA, AND DIABETES. 

Urinary Diseases form a separate class for the consideration 
of the dietician, because in them we have to keep in mind not 
only what is likely to affect the general health, but also what^ 
will affect the kidneys and bladder specially, by producing a 
secretion capable of exercising a locally deleterious action. 

TJric acid forms the nucleus of the great majority of 
nrinary concretions, and many entirely consist of it. The 
small red grains, like cayenne pepper, and the brown lumps of 
gravel or stone, are all of considerable hardness and of smooth 
exteriors, so that their presence is often unfelt, till they make 
themselves evident, either by passing out into daylight, or by 
concreting together and becoming large enough to be a 
mechanical impediment. The great object in treatment must 
be to prevent the deposit of uric acid in the renal secretion ; 
and when the tendency to it is once proved, not to await the 
advent of symptoms, which only arise at late periods of the 
disease. 

Uric acid is deposited only when it is in excess. Excess 
of uric acid in the system is, if not absolutely identical, at all 
events closely related to the diathesis of gout. So that all 
that has been said about the regimen of that disease may be 
applied without any reservation to this contingency also. The 
strict observance of it is the more urgent in the degree that 
stone is the more painful and dangerous of the two. 

Oxalate of Ume is a substance whose very presence in the 
urine is decidedly abnormal and morbid. It may be derived 



304 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

by occasional accident from some article of food, snch as 
tomatoes, or rhubarb, or sorrel, without incouvenience accru- 
ing ; but when not to be accounted for in this way, it evidences 
a departure from health, and the persistence of its deposit 
leads to a most painful form of stone. Its shape is sharp 
pointed crystals, and these grow together into knobby masses, 
which, whether from their form or other unexplained causes, 
give rise to great agony in the parts they come intc contact 
with. It is of great moment, therefore, to detect its existence 
in the urine at an early date, so as to anticipate the evil 
results. 

Oxalate of lime is often found in children who live in the 
country and have been under-fed. In this case it would 
appear to arise from their eating an excess of acid fruits and 
bad vegetables, and drinking hard unboiled water. Chemists 
tell us that citric, maKc, and other organic acids distributed 
through the vegetable world, are liable to conversion into 
oxalic ; so that it is not necessary tliat it should be naturally 
a constituent of the food eaten, but may arise during its fer- 
mentation or digestion. 

It also is formed in the urine of adults in consequence of 
exposure to damp cold, deficiency of fresh air, and a low 
monotonous diet. The debility arising from frequent attacks 
of gout also induces the formation, so that it appears mingled 
with urate of ammonia or soda, easily distinguishable from 
that amorphous deposit by the pointed octahedral shape of the 
crystals under the microscope. The persons in whom I have 
found oxalate of lime have been of a nervous sensitive consti- 
tution, and those of the male sex have frequently suffered 
from nocturnal seminal emissions. They always feel much 
the irritation of the neck of the bladder induced by the morbid 
urine. 

The indication afforded by the formation of oxalate of lime 
is to secure a generous animal diet, warm clothing, fresh air 
gentle exercise and rest ; but, above all, that repose of mind 
the want of which is a prominent cause of the indigestion. 



\ 



GRAVEL AND STONE. • 305 

Rhubarb, sorrel, apples, pears, and in short any raw fruit and 
vegetables, should be avoided. Water-cresses and lettuce are 
the least objectionable, as they are sedative to the urinary 
organs and prevent a scorbutic condition of the blood. A 
small quantity of old spirits and water at meals does not in 
general disagree. 

Pho8j)hatic salts are a natural ingredient in the urine. The 
healthier a man is the more of them does he excrete. In the 
normal condition of acidity of the urine they are quite dis- 
solved. But when from the irritating presence of a foreign 
body, such as a uric acid calculus for instance, the surface of 
the mucous membrane of the urinary apparatus becomes so 
alkaline that it makes the water alkaline also, then the phos- 
phatic salts are concreted into crystab and solid masses. Thus, 
the uric acid calculus, or other foreign body, becomes coated 
with a layer of a nature quite different from its own. Idio- 
pathic or constitutional inflammation of the bladder and 
kidneys may also deprive the urine of its healthy acidity, and 
cause phosphatic gravel to concrete without any visible nucleus 
to concrete upon. But I cannot say I have seen the same 
happen from the temporary alkalinity dependent on taking 
soda, magnesia, or potash in the medicine or diet. However, 
where there is a fear of this result, in case of an alkali being 
required, it is wise to use the more diffiisible one, anmionia. 

The treatment of the morbid condition here alluded to is 
wholly surgicaL The mechanical removal of the cause of 
irritation is imperative where it is possible. Where it is im- 
possible, the special treatment of the local inflammation 
causing it is the only rational procedure. 

Gravel formed of the strange greenish substance called 
* cystine ' is very rare. I have met with only one person who 
has ever passed it, and he seems to be nowise deteriorated in 
health. From the large quantity of sulphur it contains (26 
per cent.) it would seem to be formed by the decomposition of 
some animal matter, perhaps solidified mucus. 

Chronic Albuminuria^ or Bright's disease of the kidneys^ 



306 DIET IK SICKNESS. 

is a complex state, the complication of 'which inYolve Beveial 
conditions with separate bearings on the choice of the most 
appropriate diet and regimen. 

The essential feature in Bright's disease is an imperfecl 
nutrition of the smaller blood-vessels, by reason of which they 
lose their elasticity and tone, become thick and friable, are 
obstmcted, and are unable to supply the glandular stmctnie 
of the kidney with the blood for depuration. Hence a reten- 
tion of the urea which should be cleansed ont from the drca- 
lating bloodf. The blood thus fouled feuls to absorb sufficient 
oxygen, is imperfectly aerated, and cannot renew its red 
particles. Hence, with the retention of urea there is ansemia 
also. By the force of the heart the fluid is still driven along, 
but it meets obstruction, instead of help, in its course from 
the action of the capillaries ; and there ensues an ezndation of 
the easiest exuded, that is the serous, part of its snbstance into 
the nearest open space. Hence the urine, at the same time 
that it lacks the urea which it ought to carry away, is 
loaded with albumen abnormally abstracted from the circnla- 
tion. 

The object aimed at by the dietician should be to supply 
the nutrient organs with aliment which is the most readily 
and rapidly convertible into blood and tissue, namely, diges- 
tible animal food in frequent moderate quantities. He will 
also feed the anaemic blood with iron, and in his use of dmgs 
will choose such as contribute to rectify the deficiencies of 
the digestion. Bearing in mind the fouling of the blood with 
effete matters, he will advise. a copious use of aqueous drinks, 
which flow out readily by the kidneys, carrying with them 
such constituents of the diseased body as are soluble in water. 
Especially will he carefully disabuse the mind of his patient 
of the notion that drinking water leads to dropsy, and that 
the thirst should be thwarted on this ground. The "warning 
is very necessary ; for an albuminuriao hardly ever escapes at 
least some subcutaneous collection of fluid in the face or 
legs ; and if his doctor has previously been urging on him the 



ALBUMINUEIA. 307 

use of dilnents, be accnses them of having caused the symptom. 
In point of fact the best and only thoroughly safe diuretic 
for the relief of albuminurious dropsy, is water, and it is also 
a valuable preventive. 

In disease of the structure of the kidneys, and especially in 
albuminuria, it is obvious that harm must be done by alcohol. 
There is no thoroughfare through the kidneys for the natural 
amount of urea and phosphates, still less for the alcohol. 
Thus the ordinary safety-valve is shut up. In this condition 
coma is often brought on prematurely by neglect of the 
warning voice of the sensations. Albuminuriacs will always 
remark that they feel stupid and sleepy after their accustomed 
amount of wine, and this should be a hint to their medical 
attendant to leave it off, instead of encouraging them to persist 
on the plea of weakness, as is often done. 

An additional reason in behalf of abstinence is that 
albuminuria, at least in its chronic form, indicates a degenera- 
tive diathesis, which has been already pointed out as one of 
the bad influences upon health of alcohol. Whether alcohol 
or cold be the sharper blade of the shears so apt to cut short 
life's thread by Bright 's disease, I care not greatly, inasmuch 
as it cannot be questioned that both of them have that 
tendency. It is their union which is so irresistible a foe to 
the poorer working classes who come to hospitals, and it is 
the avoidance of that union which protracts the lives of our 
wealthy patients. I cannot repent of including albuminuria 
with its attendant evils among the diseases caused by alcohol, 
and I very much object to the gin and whisky punch, the hot 
grogs and the spirituous diuretics which I have known 
albuminuriacs advised to drink. If they must have the 
liquors, let them at any rate indulge in an occasional bout 
and be done with it, and not consume their poison in its most 
fatal form of small repeated doses. Warm diluents are just 
as good diuretics without alcohol as with it. 

There is considerable difficulty in persuading albuminu- 
riacs to persist in a systematic milk diet ; but if it could b^ 

x2 



308 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

managed, I am persnaded nothing would give a better chance 
of putting a stop to the progress of the lesion. 

In Diabetes certainly life is prolonged, and the risk of the 
intercurrent maladies diminished, by a diet from wbich sugar 
and articles which form sugar are, as far as practicable, ex- 
cluded. 

M. Bouchardat, Professor of Hygiene at tbe University of 
Paris, gives the following list of eatables whose chemical 
composition makes them injurious to diabetics : — 

Sugar ; — 

Bread of any kind, or pastry ;— 

Rice, maize, and other starchy grains ; — 

Potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca, among root prodncts ; 

Sago, among piths ; — 

Among manufactured starches, macaroni, vermicelli, and 
semolina ; — 

Of vegetable seeds, peas and beans of all sorts, and 
chestnuts ; — 

Radishes, turnips, beetroot, carrots ; — 

All preserved fruits, apples, and pears ; — 

Honey, milk, beer, cider, sweet and sparkling- wines, 
lemonades, and suchlike sweetened acid drinks. 

Happily the list of permissible articles of diet is somewhat 
longer, and might easily be extended by the introduction of 
nutritious eatables kept out of European markets by want of 
demand. The diabetic may eat without fear — 

Meat of all kinds, brown or white, boiled, roast, or grilled, 
and seasoned with any sauce pleasing to the palate, provided 
there be no flour or sugar in it ; — 

To the curious gourmet, affected with diabetes, it may be 
mentioned that Professor Bouchardat especially commends 
the flesh of carnivorous animals, and advises their trying cat, 
dog, and fox. Probably larks, robins, and ducks Tvill be 
more to their taste. The liver, however, should not be eaten 
and by removing the fat a great deal of the rank flavour of 
the camivora is avoided ; — 






^ 
F 



[. 



I 



DIABETES. 309 

All sorts of fish, shell-fish, and lobsters ; — 

Eggs;— 

Cream and cheese ; — 

Spinach, endive, lettuce, sorrel, asparagus, hop-tops, 
artichokes, French beans, Brussels sprouts, cabbage (the last 
* very good with pickled pork or bacon,' says the good-natured 
professor) ; — 

Salads of cress, endive, American cress, com salad, dande- 
lion, lettuce, with a full allowance of oil and hard-boiled 

oggs ;— 

Fresh vegetable gluten, i,e. dough with the starch washed 

out, may be made into an, agreeable dish with grated Par- 
mesan or Gruyere cheese and butter; — 

Anchovy and Ravigote butter (see Goufie) ; — 

For dessert, oHves. On high days and holidays, when the 
patient has begun to improve, some fresh summer fruit, of 
course without sugar. 

The wearing hunger may be much appeased by chewing 
cocoa beans. 

For drink, a bottle and a half of good claret or Burgundy 
may be taken in the day. Those who prefer it may take 
instead brandy and soda-water, one part of the former to nine 
of the latter. Fresh beef-tea is a capital quencher of thirst. 

Coffee with cream..* 

It may be observed that several of these last-named victuals 
are not entirely devoid of sugar, staa:ch, or inosite ; but the 
quantity is so small that they may be conceded aa a. variety, 
and are not considered dangerous by our chief authority on 
the subject who has been here quoted. The menu has not 
be^n improved by any of the subsequent writers on the 
subject, whose efforts have been mainly directed to the 
pharmaceutical treatment of the disease. 

Diabetic patients should always chew slowly, eat often 
but moderately; and drink should be taken in the same 
&J9hion. 

* Bouchardat, Du Diabiie mere, Paris, 1852. 




310 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

They wiU assist digestion mnch by wearing a flannel belt 
round their waist next the skin. 

They should take a great deal of gentle exercise in the open 
air. 

The digestion wiU also be improved by quinine and strych- 
nine, to which may be added, with the approbation of the 
dietician, cod-liver oil. The action of soda, also, in augmenting 
the secretion of gastric juice, may be brought into play by the 
dietetic employment of Vichy water. 

Among the substances forbidden to diabetics, is unhappily 
included that which is proverbially the one thing needfal, 
* the staff of life.' Bread is the article of diet most promi- 
nently starchy and deleterious, and at the same time the most 
difficult to deny. To get over this difficulty, M. Bonchardat 
' devised a sort of sham bread made of gluten. But it is agree- 
able neither to the eye nor to the taste, and the patients on 
whom I have tried it have preferred going without bread 
altogether.^ A much more palatable substitute is proposed 
by Dr. Pavy in his well-known work on Diabetes — namely, 
cake made of powdered almonds and eggs. 

However, my own opinion is that we do not act wisely in 
enforcing a diet which is really intolerable to the patient. 
The object to be gained is to conciliate the stomach, appetite, 
and fancy into taking the greatest possible amount of animal 
food and oleaginous matter — in fact, to assimilate the patient, 
as much as possible, to the Esquimaux and Pampas Indians, 
who have nothing but water and beef, beef and water, from 
the cradle to the grave. And if he eats the heartier for 
having a biscuit, or crust, or glass of porter, or even a for- 
bidden vegetable with his meals, it is better to give him his 
way than to tempt him to break through all rules altogether 
by playing the tyrant. 

There is a doubt felt how far the patient's unnatural 
thirst ought to be gratified. Abstinence diminishes the 
quantity of urine of course. But is that an advantage ? It 

* Lectures Chiefly Clinical^ lect. xxxviii. 



DIABETES. 311 

would seem better, if the blood gets loaded with sugar, as 
analysis proves it to be, for the foreign ingredient to be 
washed out by an ample outflow, than for it to remain at the 
risk of poisoning the tissues. It will be found that the thirst 
is closely proportioned to the amount of sugar requiring expul- 
sion. When the diet is changed from starchy to meaty food, 
much less is drunk, and much less evacuated by the kidneys, 
although no restriction has been laid upon the appetite for 
liquids. I do not, therefore, check patients in drinking as 
much dHuent as they wish. 

In all diseases which affect the mucous membrane of the 
urinary apparatus, such as the irritation of a atone in the 
kidneys, ureter, or bladder, an enlarged prostate, gonorrhoea, 
&c., malt liquors are peculiarly deleterious. They increase 
the secretion of pus, and often bring it back again when it has 
stopped for several days. This is not to be accounted for by 
the alcohol therein contained, since neither weak spirits and 
water nor sound claret has the same effect ; but it must arise 
from some peculiar condition of the transformed malt forming 
an irritating ingredient in the water. 



313 



CHAPTER VI. 

DEFICIENT EVACUATION. 

CosTiVENESS must be regarded as a disorder of the whole 
system, and not of the intestinal canal alone. The first object 
of treatment should be to relieve the body of the presence of 
excrementitions matter, the predominance of which in the 
blood is shown by the dingy, feculent tint of the complexion, 
the sluggish thoughts, the headache, and the slow circulation. 
Purgatives, then, may judiciously be used to commence with ; 
for the immediate relief they afford to the feelings of discom- 
fort is great. But let not the relief be set down to the mere 
* clearing out the bowels ; ' it is the cleansing of the blood 
which is the real aim of the remedy, and the real cause of the 
relief. An inspection of what comes away shows that it has 
been newly made ; it is fresh bile and other constituents of 
recent faeces, not of those which have rested long in the canal. 

Nothing is easier than thus with a vigorous pill and draught 
to drive away, as by a charm, the patient's discomforts ; and 
he is ready enough to cry out that no more is wanted. But 
what is the consequence of leaving off treatment ? The 
renewal of the blood and tissues not having had time to regain 
its original activity — there not being enough new-made blood 
to carry on vigorous life — the effete materials again collect, 
and the disease takes a fresh start. Again and again the 
coarse expedient is called for, and at last &ils to effect its 
object of giving relief. 

To avoid this evil consequence it is prudent to administer 
no quickly-acting purgatives which comigletfeVj ^cs^Stj *^^ 



314 DIET m SICKNESS. 

abdominal canal, bnt rather such as cause a gradnal increase 
in the solid matter of the stools. Aloes and rhubarb are the 
best evacuative ; and I find it also beneficial to combine with 
the chosen drug some resin, which acts as a tonic to the 
mncons membrane, and prevents the exudation of serum and 
mucus. Two or three grains of aloes-and-myrrh pill, every 
night, will in a week produce aU the good effect of strong 
purgation ; and it will produce the good permanently instead 
of merely for a time. 

All superfluous food of the sort that has the property of 
arresting evacuation must be left off. Wine, beer, tea, and 
coffee must, on this account, be excluded from the dietary ; 
and milk, cocoa, whey, soda-water, Seltzer- water, &c., substi- 
tuted for them. 

Water is a very ready remedy, and certainly a very 
rational one, when the evacuation by destructive assimilation 
is deficient. The experiments of Dr. Bocker and of Dr. Falck ^ 
show the increase of interstitial metamorphosis by this agent to 
be in close proportion to the quantity taken ; and all who have 
heard or read of the agreeable sensations of patients during 
their submission to the ' Water-cure ' cannot question its capa- 
bility of removing matter from the tissue. Herein lies its 
strength ; for, as Dr. Bocker observes, * the demand for new 
tissue, as expressed in the sensation of hunger, keeps pace 
exactly with the extent of the metamorphosis.' 

A much less amount of water-drinking than is involved in 
a hydropathic course will often be of great service. Let the 
patient take, the first thing of a morning, a tumbler of water 
made spicy by a few cloves which have been placed overnight 
in the tumbler and had boiling water poured on them — a weak 
clove- tea in fact. 

Warm hip-baths are also of great service, and can be borne 
from the first even by those reduced to extreme anssmia and 
lifelessness. Afterwards a cold douche bath, administered by 

* Zeitschrift der K, K. Gesellschqft der Aerzte zu Wien^ April, 1854, aod 
Vierordfs Archive i. p. 160. 



DEFICIENT EVACUATION. 315 

sitting in warm water and having a bucket of cold water 
poured down the spine, or squirted against the loins with a 
garden syringe, is of essential use, by actively promoting the 
life of the skin and capillaries. Raising the specific gravity 
of the water by the addition of salt prevents the chill which 
fresh water is apt to impart. 

Green vegetables, of which spinach is the completest 
specimen, should be freely eaten, and summer fruits. Porridge 
is an excellent breakfast ; and brown bread, so that it be not 
new, is beneficial as supplying a good quantity of material for 
the bowels to act upon. Watercresses and dandelion are useful, 
eaten raw, and the watery extract from the root of the latter 
forms a suitable drug to assist the digestive organs. Horace 
recommends lettuces, and with some reason. Both they and 
spinach may be made into soup. 

Roast apples and stewed prunes are much better suited 
than pastry as a second course for the patients we are now 
considering. Stewed prunes can also be taken with meat. 
Figs can be eaten either cold or in a pudding. 

Bacon, the most soothing of fats to the digestive canal, 
eaten at meals, or two teaspoonfuls of salad oil taken at bed- 
time, prevent that drying and hardening of the contents of 
the bowels which causes much of the inconvenience, and they 
also augment the activity of the liver. 

Red wines should be avoided by the costive ; they cause 
piles. The best of the white sorts are Chablis, Sauteme, and 
Capri. 

A careful diagnosis should be made between deficient 
evacuation (as above described) from costiveness, and that 
whicfi depends on anssmia or old age. 

In an»mia there is almost always joined with it (in the 
female sex) a deficiency of catamenial discharge. It is scanty, 
pale, or even altogether absent. This is an indication for the 
use of iron, phosphatic salts of lime, and cod-liver oil. A diet 
drink of cinchona is especially useful in such cases. 



316 DIET IN SICKNESS, 

Porridge, 

Always use the coarsely ground Scotch oatmeal. Mix 
two tablespoonfols of it with a small teacupful of cold water 
till it is of Tmiform consistence. Then pour in a pint of 
boiling water, and keep boiling and stiiring it for forty 
minutes. It is then fit to eat, but may be kept simmering till 
wanted, if a little more water be added as the other steams 
away. It should be served in a soup plate quite hot, and cold 
milk added to reduce it to an eatable temperature. 

Brown Bread, 

One of the most useful purposes to which to apply brown 
bread is to make it iuto bread sauce, in the manner before 
mentioned for white bread. Mixed with tomatoes, it makes a 
capital sauce for costive i)ersons. 

Brown bread biscuits are also eligible. 

Oatmeal Flv/mmery, 

Take crushed Embden grits in proportion to the quantity 
required. Put them into a broad pan, cover with water, stir 
up together, and let stand for twelve hours. Then pou* off 
the water so long as it runs clear. Add fresh water, mix, and 
let stand twelve hours more. Repeat the same process a 
third time. When the oatmeal has been thus macerated 
thirty-six hours, strain it through a hair sieve and boil it, 
stirring vigorously till it is quite thick. Pour it, to cool, in a 
dish, and eat it cold with milk, or a little wine and sugar. 

Sjpma^h Soujp. 

Pick all the stalks from 1^ lb. weight of fresh spinach ; 
wash it and chop it ; put it in a 3-quart stewpan with four 
ounces of butter ; stir it over the fire for five minutes ; add an 
ounce of flour and stir again for three or four minutes. Then 
stir in two quarts of chicken broth till it boils. Simmer it on 
a cool stove for half an hour, and add a small teaspoonful of 
cream. Serve with it some pulled bread fried or baked. 

Endive or lettuce soup may be prepared in the same way. 



DEFICIENT EVACUATION. 317 

Lettuces wOh Oravy (Gouff6). 

Take 8 round and full cabbage-lettuces ; trim off all the 
OTLtside leaves ; wash and blanch for 10 minutes ; cool them 
•well ; squeeze the water out ; cut them in two ; lay them open 
on a dish, and season them with 3 pinches of salt ; tie the 
halves together, and put in a 2-quart stewpan; cover them 
with broth and add 2 gills of stock pot fat, 1 faggot,* and 
1 onion with 2 cloves stuck in it ; place a round of paper on 
the top, and simmer for 2 hours ; when cooked, drain on a 
cloth : untie and open the lettuces again ; cut the stalks out, 
and fold the leaves round, giving to each piece an oval shape, 
about 3 inches by 2 inches, and dish them in a circle. 

Reduce 1^ pint of household gravy to half the quantity ; 
pour it over the lettuces, and serve. 

Thin slices of crumb of bread, cut to the shape of the 
lettuces, can be put in the intervals between the lettuces. 

* A faggot should contain a small handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme, 
and a biy-leaf. It should be tied up with string, so that none of the leaves 
break off in cooking. It is a perfectly wholesome seasoning. 




\' 



< ^ 



319 



CHAPTER VII. 

NEBYE DISOBDEBS. 

§ 1. Htsteru. 

It has been authoritatively stated that * the physician can do 
but little for one who is born hysteric ; i.e, for one whose 
disease is but an exaggeration of her habitual, constitutional 
state. '^ I cannot agree in that sentence, for I am sure that a 
judicious medical adviser may very often give, even to such a 
bom sufferer as above described, advice which will enable her 
not only to be comfortable .herself, but to be a useful member 
of society. And of such advice one point of dietetic regimen 
will always form a part in every single case — * Let no fer- 
mented or spirituous liquid ever crosfl your lips.' I have 
not a shadow of a doubt that at least one-third of the subjects 
of hereditary hysteria we come across, would never have 
developed into the declared disease had they observed this 
abstinence. 

Hysteria has already been spoken of, in a chapter con- 
cluding the Second Part of this volume, as kept up, if not 
originally started, by alcohol. This is most especially true 
(according to my observation) of those irregular chronic 
forms of the ailment where there are few, if any, stormy 
paroxysms or convulsions. I have been surprised to find how 
often a total abstinence from fermented and spirituous liquors 
is followed by a restoration of the invalid's strength. That 
incapacity for exertion, which made a witty hysteriac say the 
other day that she should take ' Non poasvmvs ' as her motto, 

* Beynolds' System of Mediom$y vol. iu-^.^^^« 



320 DIET IN SIGKNESa 

yanishes as if by mag^c, and jonr patient oheerfallj adopts 
the further means for her cure. 

It is not hero meant to be implied that hysteria in 
cases, or even in any largo proportion of cases, is brought on 
by tippling. Such an idea is quite negatived by the age and 
social condition of most of its victims. Compared with 
hereditar}' and educational influences, with mental depression, 
with starvation, with tca-drinking, with pelvic irritation, with 
dyspepsia, the experience of the ailment (as collected by M. 
Briquet *) shows the evil power of alcohol to be inconsiderate 
in the number it thus immediately affects. Still I cannot 
but think that if they had been made from clinical records in 
this country, his statistics would have assigned more import- 
ance to it as an originating influence. What we are concerned 
with now, however, is its injurious action on the disease 
already established. Of that I have no doubt. And I find a 
full explanation of the &ict in the innutrition of the nerve 
tissue which was illustrated by experiment in the formff 
chapter on * Alcohol.* 

There is in the treatment of hysteria a difl&cnlty of dia- 
gnosis which especially concerns the use of alcohol, namely that 
arising from the frequent occurrence in the same person and 
at the same time too very often, of some variety of neuralgia, 
such as intermittent tic, brow ague, and stitch in the side, 
which when they occur alone are benefited by high living 
and port wine. A trimming treatment is necessary here but if 
the hysteria predominates, I strongly object to the employ- 
ment of alcoholic stimulants. 

The momentary relief afforded by the poison pnts a moun- 
tainous difficulty in the path of those who would give their 
clients advice grounded on the truths established by science. 
We feel ourselves so weak, that some have swallowed the 
fallacies of teetotalism, so as to be able to * answer a fool 
according to his folly. ' Others of us, to keep one another up 
by mutual moral support, banded together two years aeo to 

* Briquet sur VHysUrie, 



HYSTERIA. 321 

sign a protest against the misuse of alcohol in medicine. And 
I do think that the latter movement has had considerable 
effect in rousing the consciences of medical men to the mean- 
ness of conciliating patients, especially nervous patients, by- 
allowing them to drown pain in what is a final poison. 

The best way of breaking off the habit of yielding to the- 
perverted sensation which so insidiously cries for alcohol, is 
immediately and altogether to relinquish it. Terrible some- 
times is the struggle, yet it is a bracing and ennobling conflict ; 
■whereas the long-continued daily annoyance of giving it up 
little by little is on the whole quite as painful, and is often 
enfeebling to the mind. Moreover, courage is likelier to give 
way in a month than in a day. 

A generous nitrogenous diet is essential in the treatment 
of hysteria. Meat should be eaten at breakfast, and it will be- 
found to be less repulsive and easier digested if the internal 
viscera be previously braced up by a shower bath, or a cold 
douche to the spine. The best drink is milk and soda water,, 
in the proportion of about half of each. 

The hysteric temperament will in the female sex sometimes 
cause functional derangement of the periodical evacuation,, 
either in excess, defect, or painfulness. As a rule, all local 
treatment is to be avoided, and the attention of the patient 
withdrawn from what is, in point of fact, a mere accidental 
symptom to a due regulation of the diet and regimen. And 
the same rule will apply to irritation of the urinary organs. 

Polhitio noctuma in men also often arises from the same- 
cause. Excluding the cases where this annoyance depends on 
worms or piles in the rectum, it will be found that nine-tenths 
of the subjects of it come of hysterical families, and may bo 
relieved by anti-hysteric treatment: If it is associated with 
impotentia coram foemiiia, the diagnosis of the temperament 
is the more easy. Here again local interference is most per- 
nicious. 



?22 DIET IN SICKNESS. 



§ 2. Delikium Tremens, Alcoholism. 

Nobody but a whimsical doctrinaire wonld propose to 
relieve physical phenomena really similar in essential matters 
to such as are caused through a drug", by administering an 
additional similar stimulant. No man of plain, nnclonded 
common sense does so in words ; but in act, the vnlgar 
dt'unkard looks upon himself as performing a feat of wisdom, 
when he takes * a hair of the dog that bit him.* * What this 
does (if it is strong enough to do anything) is to stop the 
painful process of eliminating the toxic agent. It is eqniyaleiit 
to an attempt to soothe retching when a man has swallowed 
an ounce of laudanum. The retching may be soothed 
certainly, and by an additional dose of the laudanum itself; 
but the sufferer is all the worse in the end. 

As a remedy for drunkenness some have employed the 
agency, supposed to be antagonistic to alcohol, of sulphnric 
ctlier. It has been useful in dead-drunkenness Tcoma) and 
those who have indulged in secret will sometimes steady 
themselves and cover the airy evidence of their brandy dram 
with an odour which hopes to pass as an article of materia 
medica. I suspect the proceeding differs in nowise from 
that above named. The safest and quickest, though, not the 
plcasantest, cures for the remorse of a guilty stomach, are 
patience and diluents. Let the sick man, if he still on prin- 
ciple adheres to his * hair/ make it as little a one as possible 
and drowned, as completely as possible, in the antagonistic 
fluid, water ; and let the patience be seasoned with repentance • 
and then he may calculate safely on being no worse in the 
end for his temporary folly. In this case what happens 
probably, is a retention of effete matters, especially in the 

' Si nocturna t'lhi noceat potatio mm\ 
Hoc tu mane bibas iterum, etfuerit inedicuia. 
* If overnight's debauch does hurtful prove, 
A glass next morning will your pains remove.* 

Sanctontis, 



ALCOHOLISM. 323 

nervous tissne, proportionally greater than that noted in 
Experiments I., II., and III.,* in the ratio of the amount of 
alcohol held in the body at once— -a retention followed by a 
copious evacuation, not only of the retained matters, but of 
the results of an increase in destructive assimilation. Hence 
a feeling, not of satisfaction, as when retained effete matters 
are got rid of by a timely purge, but of painful exhaustion. 
The body is actually lighter, as noticed by Sanctorius, but, 
from weariness, feels heavier. After the evacuation has 
gradually ceased, there is no reason to doubt that the body 
quite recovers itself, for temporary functional disturbances, 
when time is allowed for full completion of the crisis, leave 
no organic traces. 

So that the occasional (say 'monthly' in deference to 
Sanctorius) drunkard, if he also takes a monthly bout of 
penitence and temperance, probably does not shorten his days. 
But that he thereby lengthens them or gladdens them, implies 
a condition of things that never need voluntarily be sub- 
mitted to in Europe. It implies a monotony of surroundings 
which will thank a misery for a change, and clock-like habits 
unbroken by the due mental and bodily stimulants of natural 
life. It implies an existence approaching to that of the 
Pitcaim Islanders, the descendants of the crew of the * Bounty,' 
who are described by their rare visitors as having eliminated 
from their little community all that could lead to sorrow or 
irregularity, without diseases and without doctors; and yet 
they rapidly grow old, and soon after forty are calmly gathered 
to their forefathers, simply because they have nothing else to 
do. Their last sexagenarians were some survivors of the 
original mutineers. This is an extreme case, but we sometimes 
come across examples of too monotonous an existence even in 
civilised life, as, for instance, in the families of respectable 
persons, engaged in safe trade. Amusement and ambition, 
from want of use, fail to attract them, and considei'able 
ingenuity is often required to make them care for anything, 

1 See pages 221, 228, 230. 



324 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Dramatic entertainments, eitHer on stage, platform, or pnlpit, 
afford the readiest resource ; but of course any hobby in which 
the patient may himself act a part, is much more valuable. 
All these are much healthier stimulants than alcohol ; and, 
moreover, whatever sanatory merits intoxication, might have, 
the moral objections to it would outweigh them all, and in 
spite of the authority of Sanctorius and our gratitude to him 
as a physiologist I hope I shall never again hear anyone 
advised to get drunk for the good of his health. 

Delirium Ebrietatisy ' mad drunkenness,' is the systematic 
name given to a form of intoxication, whose pecoliariiy 
depends on the diathesis or temx)erament of the sufferer's 
brain. While most grow stupid, quarrelsome, or maudlin 
under drink, some (with probably a latent taint of insanity 
in them) have a dangerous tendency to grow furious, and to 
have delusions which still further excite their fury. The 
affection is, in fact, a sort of mania, exhibited only during the 
presence of alcohol in the blood. Indeed, in Dr. Darwin's 
days, it was apparently considered true mania ; and as 
bleeding was usual in mania then, it was practised for 
delirium ehrietatis also, though not with the approbation of 
that far-sighted physician, who, in this and m.any other 
things, was much in advance of his generation. He says, 
* Venesection, I believe, sometimes destroys those who would 
otherwise have recovered in a few hours.' * He recommends 
emetics and watery liquids, which are antagonistic to alcohol, 
and therefore I presume he would join me in classing this 
among the diseases where alcohol is to be avoided. It is 
important to distinguish it from madness, in which alcohol is 
sometimes useful, as will be afterWards noticed. A few 
hours will certify the diagnosis, as delirium ehrietatis is soon 
recovered from, unless the patient be a constant tippler. 

Delirium Tremens — or * the horrors ' — is the familiar and 
distinct form of disease of the nervous system arising from 
the long-continued deleterious influence of alcohol on health. 

Zoonomia, ii. 1, 7, 3. 



ALCOHOLISM. 325 

Its pathology lias already (p. 234, &c.) been assigned to an 
arrest of the renewal of the tissues, especially those which con- 
tain phosphoms — an arrest found by experiment when even 
small quantities of alcohol are ingested, and apparently directly 
proportioned to the continuousness of the ingestion. It is 
distinct from delirium ehriefatis, not only in its symptoms, 
which are too weU known to need repetition, but in the fact 
that these symptoms seldom, if ever, follow immediately on 
an unusual excess. It is true that a man may be mad-drunk, 
and after a time drivel off into the horrors, if he is an habitual 
dram-drinker ; but he does not, as a rule, get struck with the 
horrors during his debauch. Indeed, this form of disease, as 
often as not, is the consequence of a sudden omission of the 
customary stimulant. It is on the ground of this last-named 
fact, apparently, that some practitioners have thought it best 
to continue the use of alcohol, while the patient is still raving 
and trembling from its effects. I do not understand them to 
suppose that they are acting on any homopathic principle : 
they aim only at fending off the danger of the excessive crisis 
by restoring that condition of alcoholic saturation the patient 
enjoyed previously, and during which he did not fall into 
delirium tremens. I cannot agree with those practitioners. 
Truly enough the raving, and the terror, and the trembling, 
and the sweating, and the awful chaos of dreaming and 
wakefulness, in which the poor wretch is plunged, are made 
somewhat more tolerable by the dose — ^the pains are palliated. 
[Nevertheless, there is a higher aim of treatment than pallia- 
tion of pain; the danger to life does not depend on these 
symptoms, but on the suspension of the controlling functions 
of the brain ; and to that suspension and danger each addi- 
tional drop of alcohol must contribute its share. I feel sure 
that life is risked by the alcoholic treatment of delirium 
tremens ; and the risk of life is, in this disease especially, the 
paramount consideration. For the patient has brought it on 
himself by his own fault, and so long as he does not die I am 
very little anxious to spare him the pains and penalties ot hisa* 



326 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

self-indulgence, which pains and penalties may perhaps con- 
tribute useful lessons of future conduct. 

My own plan of treatment has been to cut off the supply 
of alcohol — at once, and, so far as my power extends, for 
ever. Where there is no vomiting, I give a mustard emetic, 
and then a purgative enema. If the patient is quiet enoDgh, 
the vital temperature, which, as we have seen (p. 225), is 
lowered by alcohol, should be kept up by a warm bath, or at) 
least by hot ablutions. And fresh material for new tissue, 
with assistance in getting rid of effete tissue, should be 
assiduously furnished in the shape of meat and water united, 
as beef-tea with the pounded beef in it. A sift of pepsine 
mixed with grated Parmesan cheese will make it spicy for 
the jaded stomach, and promote its digestion. The addition 
*is especially desirable if in consequence of vomiting the food 
has to be taken by enema. (See recipe for the enema, p. 269.) 

It will be seen that the intention of the above-mentioned 
treatment is to evacuate the alcohol, and to counteract its 
suspensory influence on the vital warmth and on the assimila- 
tion and renewal of the nervous tissue. 

There is one other highly important measure which is 
rendered needful by the reduced power of the nervous system 
during its functional arrest. The fonctions that depend upon 
it must be spared work. Complete quiet, and shielding 
from whatever can excite the mind, is important, not only 
during the disease but during convalescence, lest a relapse 
should occur. The excitement may be so mild as scarcely to 
occur to us as a risk ; yet by the frail machinery and unfed 
tissues it cannot be borne. I will quote an example from my 
note-book. An earnest young curate who came under my care 
for delirium tremens, contracted by drinking bad brandy to 
support him in his daily ministration to a large country 
parish, had got so well again that I consented to his breaking 
the intolerable idleness of a Sunday in London, by hearing a 
famous preacher. During the night (to my shame) he had a 
relapse, and ackno^led^^d t\i^t> t\ie cause was the contagious 



ALCOHOLISM. 327 

entlinsiasin of the orator. Again, in a former chapter (page 
234) is mentioned a case strongly impressed on my memory 
by being the only yonng female patient I have lost by 
delirium tremens, and in which the disease was due to the 
mental excitement caused by a false accusation of theft after 
di-am-drinking of by no means an excessive character. This 
weakness of the nerve tissue which gives way under such 
moderate pressure as it could easily resist in health, is explained 
by the arrest of its vitality indicated by the non-excretion of 
phosphates during the after-effects of alcoholic, anaesthesia, as 
before described. We must not forget to allow for it in the 
treatment of patients. 

It is rather beyond the scope of the subject in hand to 
speak of the influence of other anaesthetics in disease ; yet I 
cannot pass on without saying that if an ordinary dose of 
opium or its alkaloids, or of hydrate of chloral, gives a patient 
a few hours' sleep, he seems to me none the worse for it. But 
it is most dangerous to look upon them as specific, and to 
administer them in continuous reprises till sleep follows, or in 
the enormous doses that have been employed by some practi- 
tioners. Tho reason for those enormous doses being tolerated 
is that absorption has been arrested, and that they have 
passed away harmlessly. But supposing that absorption 
should be suddenly restored, the enormous dose can hardly 
fail to cause sudden death. No advantage is gained, and a 
great risk is incurred.^ 

* It is surprising to find such a generally judicious physician (Dr. Todd) 
an advocate of the homopathic treatment of alcoholic poisoning. In the last 
of his Clinical Lectures on certain Acute Diseases (one on the therapeutical 
effects of alcohol) he commends the free administration of wine to a child of 
three years old, who was dying from convulsions and hemiplegia in conse- 
quence of having swallowed a large quantity of gin, and regrets that brandy 
had not also been poured in by the rectum. Ho relates also specimens of 
delirium tremens similarly managed, but their result cannot be said to 
justify the use of brandy except to a most bigoted adherent. He himself 
does not propose to act in tho same way in respect of other articles of the 
materia medica. 



328 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

In chronic alcoholism I allow tlie same arg^mneiit to hold 
good. I have never found harm to arise fix)m leaving off alcohol 
altogether and at once. I am not prepared to deny that 
delirium tremens may have been the result, in some cases, of 
such precipitation, but it has not happened in my experience ; 
and I should be ready, if it did happen, to treat it in the usual 
way, confident that the patient, in spite of the accident, waa 
still gaining a positive advantage by abstinence. 

§ 3. Ague and Intermittents. 

In ague, alcohol should not be spared as an article of 
diet; and taken more freely than usual it contributes to 
lengthening the interval and shortening the paroxysms, con- 
verting quotidian into tertian, and curing tertian altogether. 
And, in brow-ague, neuralgia, inconstant sciatica, and other 
intermittent diseases of similar nature, it is sometimes equally 
efficacious. But, given during the paroxysms, I have not found 
so much benefit — perhaps it is not absorbed. 

In ague the combination in which alcohol is offered is of 
considerable importance. The most generous red wines 
should be used, and the distance at which their bouquet may 
be smelt may be taken as a rough test of their utility, I 
remember learning a lesson on this point from a most un- 
scientific source. I was chatting in the market-place at Dijon 
with a farmer's wife, when she incidentally mentioned that her 
husband was a great sufferer from ague, and was quite tired 
of swallowing quinine. I advised her to take home a good 
supply of Burgundy in her market-basket, and begged to con- 
tribute the few francs I had in my pocket. She tripped 
straight off to a grand wine-merchant's office ; but instead of 
coming out fully laden, she bore only two bottles, to the price 
of which she had contributed out of her own purse. It was 
of a vintage such as is allowed to trickle slowly over the 
tongue at tlie table of a prince, and I promptly called her a 
prodigal. ' No, no,' said she, ' I am not ; a mouthful of this 



SUNSTROKE. 329 

is worth to a sick man a bucket of commoner wine ' — and yet 
the common wine of Dijon is not to be sneered at. She was 
quite right ; there is no wine like Burgundy for ague, and 
the price (provided the merchant be honest) is a direct 
measure of its medicinal value. 



§ 4. Other Diseases of the Nervous System. 

Alcohol has been used with great advantage in Sunstroke, 
Dr. Maclean (in his article on the subject in Reynolds' ' System 
of Medicine') strongly commends the employment of Warburg's 
Tincture^ the only known iugredient in which is alcohol, and 
in addition a judicious quantity of dietetic stimulants. The 
treatment advocated by this gentleman does not seem to have 
yet taken hold of the Anglo-Indian medical mind, for the 
author speaks of venesection still being employed on a large 
and fatal scale quite recently ; so that numerical evidence of 
success cannot be furnished. I should expect it when col- 
lected to be decisive; for there are reported in sunstroke 
several most important symptoms which connect its pathology 
with that of other morbid states benefited by alcohol, viz., a 
copious excretion of solids in the urine, a high temperature of 
blood, delirium, weakness of the sphincters, trembling of the 
muscles, and death by syncope or coma. 

I have never had a case of genuine sunstroke under my 
care, the best imitation of one which this cloud-kerchiefed 
climate has afforded me having been caused by long sitting 
at a desk with a bald head close to an Argand gas-burner. 
But if evec I were to practise in a hot climate, I should un- 
hesitatiDgly adopt Dr. Maclean's treatment, both as to the 
use of ice and of alcohol. 

In concussion of the brain from accident, stimulants are 
nsually administered before the arrival of a surgeou, and no 
injurious consequences appear to follow. And blows on the 
head which happen to revellers produce, as a rule, much less 
cerebral lesion afterwards than is expected from their violence. 



330 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Tho hint should not be lost, especially since some of the 
symptoms of scyere jar to the brain-tissue much resemble 
those recorded as produced by sunstroke ; indeed, so closely 
as to have suggested the insertioii of this paragraph in its 
present place. 

Neuralgia is often decidedly benefited by alcohol, as has 
been already said. Taken dietetically at meals, it involves no 
risk of tempting the patient to intemperate indulgence ; and 
if good generous wine be the vehicle, a very moderate quantity 
often suf&ces. Spirits are not nearly so effectual, and reqnire 
to be employed in larger doses. 

But this is not all that the sufferer asks ; be wants to 
know if he may not have recourse to tho remedy when his 
agonies are upon him ; for neuralgia is not like ague, and is 
relieved in an unmistakable manner by alcohol during the 
paroxysm. It is hard to refuse, and, unless the patient sur- 
passes the average in folly, I do not refuse. But at the same 
time I give this caution — ^that the intended dose should be 
fixed upon, and not exceeded even if the pain remain as severe 
as ever. The chief benefit is by no means immediate, but 
consists principally in shortening the paroxysm. An intimate 
friend of mine with an ' irritable stump,' often brought on 
(like Nelson *s) by cold or mental annoyance, on the invasion 
of the spasmodic movements takes a tumbler of very hot 
spiced port (bishop) or of stiff whisky toddy, and then waits 
patiently till the trouble ceases. This it usually does in two 
or three, instead of lasting twenty-four, hours. Bnt whatever 
happens, he strongly advises that the stimulant should not be 
repeated. 

Hijjpocliondrlasis is too generally a constitutional and here- 
ditary complaint to be a good test of the virtue of any remedy. 
The few hypochondriacs in whom I have witnessed any im- 
provement have been persons who had been living a dull 
abstemious life, and have been persuaded on sanatory grounds 
to indulge the palate and the fancy from time to time with 
unwonted liberality. It is very possible that Sanctorius* 



INSANITY. 331 

montlily excess miglit be a sanatory meajBure here, though one- 
is loth to give advice which is capable of misinterpretation.. 
But the daily and habitual use of alcohol in hypochondriasis 
is worse than useless — in fact, deleterious. I have known 
several cases receive much benefit from entirely leaving it oflPL 

There is a peculiar form of hypocJKyndriasis which arises 
from eating too little vegetables and too much meafc. It is- 
distinguished by the high specific gravity of the urine (1*025 
to 1'035) dependent on the presence of urea alone without 
sugar. There is in these cases often a remarkable lassitude 
and apparent paralysis of the limbs suddenly occurring after 
exertion. Sometimes there is emaciation. Both these symp- 
toms usually lead the patient and his friends to attribute- 
the morbid state to insufficient nutrition, and to increase more 
and more the proportion of meat in spite of the aggravation 
of the ailment. A rapid cure attends the diminution of the 
meat meals to one daily, and the supplying their place with 
plenty of porridge and green vegetables. 

In maniay melancholia, and dementia, the most recent 
experience seems unanimous in recommending alcohol. Dr 
!Maudsley makes no distinction between them in speaking of 
the therapeutics of insanity, and indeed seems to proportion 
the strength of the liquor to the violence of the disease. He 
speaks of ' wine ' as a prophylactic against madness in general, 
and ' brandy ' as a remedy in maniacal excitement. I cannot 
find, as I should have liked, any warning bearing on cases 
which can be traced to drunkenness in the individual affected, 
though it can hardly be doubted that such do exist, and 
require special management. Even if the sequence of causa- 
tion have been reversed, and the intemperailce be the conse- 
quence of the madness, the association of the two must surely 
modify the treatment. It may be that Dr. Maudsley approves 
of the homopathic therapeusis of alcoholism, and his evidence 
to its prudence would be very valuable ; but it should be 
distinctly and boldly expressed. 

Leaving this branch of the question open, it may be €ce<^Vj 



ZZ2 DIET IN SLCKSESS. 

granted that his sketch of the current practice in curable 
disorders of the intellect is correct, and his confidence in its 
success is not misplaced. But here, as in health, I would 
limit the qnantit j, as a rale, to that which snits the stomach 
best and increases the appetite. 

The advantage of an ample and nutritions diet in insanity 
is daily more and more forcing itself upon the proprietors of 
lonatic asylums, thongh their interest of course would tempt 
them to an opposite creed. It is good economy in the end to 
feed highly even pauper lunatics, unused as they may have 
been to such treatment ; for by such means cures are effected, 
and the country relieved of the charge. 



333 



CHAPTER VIIL 

SCROFULA, RICKETS, AND CONSUMPTION. 

Section I. 

Scrofula is indubitably an hereditary disease; and some- 
observations incline me to the suspicion that the development 
of the ancestral stain is more common when it is on the- 
matemal side than when it is derived from the father. A 
feulty early nutrition would seem to have as much influence 
in drawing it out, as the source of the vital spark. For this 
reason a mother who is conscious of the existence of scrofula 
in her family, even should she never have been herself afflicted, 
should deny herself the privilege of suckling her infants ; and 
a healthy irreproachable wetnurse should bo got to supply her 
place. On the other hand, when it is from the father's side 
that danger is feared, it is peculiarly incumbent on her to play 
her important part with assiduity, and to protract the time of 
lactation to its fall period, observing accurately the suggestion 
made in the first chapter of the Second Part of this volume.^ 
I cannot too strongly urge the duty of impressing this upon 
patients. 

The nursing mother will act wisely also if she takes after 
her meals small doses of the Syrup of the Phosphates, or 
Parrish's Chemical Food. 

Lactation ended, the child's diet should be arranged so as 
to contain a rather larger proportion of animal food than re- 
commended for ordinary nurseries, and the instinct for a 
carnivorous nutriment should bo encouraged, or at least not 



334 DIET IN SICKNESS. - 

thwarted. Warm clothing, mnch sunlig^^i, freqnent exercise 
in the open air, and an annual breath of sea air will powerfnllj 
lud in keeping off the dreaded disease. 

The ' weariness to the flesh ' induced by overmacli study 
must be sedulously prevented. It spoils the appetite and 
digestion, so essential to the object of our care. 

The cold plunge-bath, well-ventilated rooms, moderatioii 
in the pursuits of pleasure and ambition, and a viituons life, • 
will usually carry our patients safely up to majihood and 
womanhood, and after that they may be considered safe. 

Supposing the tendency is so strong that in spite of these 
precautions the disease appears, I do then think drags are 
useful, but chiefly those which have the nearest relation to 
aliments, such as iron, the phosphates, cod-liver oil. Their 
effect on the appetite must be carefully watched ; and the end 
must not be sacrificed to the means — if they spoil the appetite 
they must be left off immediately. 

In this case also, I think alcohol is of service, employed 
with the same watchfulness as articles of the pharmacopoeia. 

Section II. 

UicJcets (^Rachitis) is distinguished from scrofula by being 
very rarely, if ever, hereditary. It consists in a soften- 
ing of the bones, especially of the back bones, in chil- 
dren who do not absorb enough bone-building materials 
in their food. I think I cannot do better here than quote tLe 
words of Dr. Trousseau, who, with his usual happiness of 
expression, has put before the world the striking results of 
M. Jules Guerin's researches : — 

* Of all causes, that most sure to produce rickets is im- 
proper food. 

'In his first works M. Jules Guerin had adopted the 
idea generally admitted that rickets and scrofula are occa- 
sioned through deficient feeding ; and by that term, according 
to vulgar prejudice, was meant suckling carried on too long. 



RICKETS. 335 

But his observation taught him soon that the direct converse 
of this proposition was true, and that the babies who became 
rickety were not those who had been kept too long at tho 
breast, but those on the contrary who had been prematurely 
weaned. In fact, it appeared to be true enough that under 
the influence of an insuflSicient supply of proper food, the 
malady developed itself; but by proper food was to be 
nnderstood something different from what was commonly 
meant. Experiments tried upon animals made the question 
quite clear. In these experiments M. Jules Guerin set him- 
self to find out if it were feasible to produce rachitis at will. 
He took a number of puppies in equal condition ; and having 
let them suckle for a time, he weaned suddenly half the lot 
and fed them on raw meat, a diet which at first sight would 
seem the most suitable for carnivorous animals. Nevertheless, 
after a short time, those who continued to take the mother's 
milk had grown strong and hearty, while those who had 
been weaned on an apparently more substantial diet pined, 
and were taken with vomiting ; then their limbs bent, and at 
the end of four or five months the poor little beasts showed all 
the symptoms of confirmed rickets. From these experiments 
we must conclude with M. Jules Guerin that the rachitis 
depended in great measure on the derangements of nutrition 
which claimed improper diet as their cause. A diet which is 
taken to at a wrong season may fairly be called improper. For 
carnivora, it is flesh before the age of suckling has passed ; for 
herbivora (and an experiment bearing on the point has been 
made on pigs) it is vegetable feeding, given them too soon, when 
they ought to be still at the teat. In the human race the 
same thing happens. Bickets is never so common as it is in 
babies weaned ere the teething is forward enough, and brought 
up on pap, vegetables, or even meat.'* It would be waste of 
time to point the moral of these valuable sentences. 

The daily addition to the dietary of a small quantity of the 
phosphatic salts is still more indicated here than in scrofula. 

' Trousseau, Clinique Aiidicale, vol. iii. p. 484, 3me ^d. 



336 DIET IS SICKNESS. 

But still nothing can take the place of milk, an article of 
diet in which our labouring population, both in town and 
country, is sadly deficient. I have no fault to find with coal 
clubs and clothing clubs, but I am sure that as a preserver of 
infantile health a ' cow club ' is worth them all. Even the 
small weekly contribution, so diflficult to extract from our 
reckless race, can be dispensed with, by arranging the price 
paid on delivery, so as to cover keep, insurance, contract for 
medical attendance, and replacement of superannuated ani- 
mals. Charitable help is most valuable when it takes upon 
itself the duty of advice and superintendence. But still, 
Lady Bountiful, do not give your spare and skim milk to the 
store pig, when there are half a dozen children growing up 
bow-legged and crooked within half a mile of your lodge gate 
for lack of it. Do not give it at all, but bestow the much 
greater boon of selling it — as low as you like, but still sell it. 

Section III. 

ConsumjMon. — Since the introduction into our materia 
medica of Cod-livor oil by Dr. Bardsley of Manchester the 
profession has been growing gradually, but surely, convinced 
of the all-importance of the dietetic treatment of pulmonary 
consumption. Cod-liver oil is a typical aliment, representing 
what is the fittest of all known substances to supply the 
deficiency that constitutes the disease. To use the language 
of microscopic physiology, ' the basis of molecular growth ' is 
poisoned, so that instead of actively secreting gland or elastic 
tissue, or blood-vessel, or epithelium, &c., fit for their various 
duties, being formed, only a useless cheesy substance is the 
product of nutntion. The due powers of life are lacking in 
it. We call it * tubercle,' and look upon it, if we are thought- 
ful people, as an infant tissue strangled in its cradle. To save 
then the parts threatened with tubercle, we must anticipate 
the formation of the imperfect matter by supplying a ground- 
work for perfect tissue. This groundwork is l^id by freshly 



CONSUMPTION. 337 

assimilated oleaginoas substance ; oleaglnons substance is 
what is furnished by nature for the primary growth and 
nutrition of all the higher tissue of animal bodies ; and indeed 
many physiologists assert that without it there is no growth ; 
so that in administering it, we are closely imitating the 
wisest teacher of medicine, mother Nature. 

The reason, then, for giving cod-liver oil is to counteract 
the t-endency to form morbid solids by supplying the most 
suitable material for healthy solids — ^in short, by overcoming 
evil with good. This is a much higher aim than the mere 
replacement of the plumpness of flesh whose waste gives the 
name to the disorder. The object is not so much to cure 
emaciation, as to cure the cause of the emaciation. Very 
necessary it is to understand this ; for not a few tuberculous 
and many tuberculously inclined patients are well furnished 
with fat, and some are even corpulent ; and they will demur 
to the prescription of our remedy, if they are allowed to retain 
the dominant idea that all it can do is to fatten. Young 
women, especially, of consumptive families will often object to 
the risk of losing the elegant slimness of youth, and insist 
that they are as plump and round as they ought to be. What 
they say may very likely be truQ ; but yet their store of fat 
can only keep up the temperature of the body, and cannot be 
used again for nutrition. For the purpose of nutrition, 
recently assimilated fat is requisite ; and thus tuberculosis 
iJ^y go on unchecked for lack of it, even in a corpulent person, 
since his store of fat is not available for digestive purposes. 

At present cod-liver oil is the most readily assimilated fat 

■ 

we know of : and so to it all other means of treating this class 
of diseases have a reference. Some substances ground their 
claims for notice on being substitutes for it, and drugs of 
various kinds act beneficially by preparing the stomach to 
digest it ; but anything which does not look to it for a cha- 
racter is of only accidental utility. 

I heartily wish that some of the efficient substitutes for 
fish-oil were more agreeable to the palate ; for it must be 

z 



338 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

confessed that the taste and smell are a serious impediment to 
its employment. Snet is apparently the best : in milk it is 
to some persons not repng^nt, and its digestibility is increased 
by its being mode into an emulsion witb one of the gastric 
solvents, to be obtained in the shops mider the name of ' Pan- 
creatic emulsion.' ' Milk, by itself, comes next in value, and 
a milk diet has from the earliest times been recommended in 
advanced phthisis. But the large quantity required to be 
swallowed, often deranges the stomach and produces repug- 
nance ; so that in reconmiending it to a patient it is neces- 
sary to warn him of this difficulty, and take example by our 
master Hippocrates, who, in advising a consumptive to drink 
a large quart jug (rpucoryXoy KvXiKa * ) of mare's milk the first 
thing every morning, adds significantly ' if he can.' 

Devonshire cream has been used as a substitute, but I 
cannot say it has proved in my hands an efi&cient one. If 
taken in sufficiently large quantities to be of service, it is apt 
to exercise a purgative action. 

For my part, I think it is wisest to try and g-et habituated 
to the fish-oil, adopting some of the various little devices which 
are used to diminish its nauseousness. In the first place it is 
essential that the article should be the best of its sort, that is, 
as free from smell, taste, and colour as possible, showing its 
careful and recent preparation. Though they do not always tell 
their customers, the importance of this freshness is well laiown 
to manufacturers. I learnt so when prescribing it for a stranger 
a few years ago : her husband, who was present, stopped me 
when I was describing what cod-liver oil should be, saying he 
knew all about that, for he made it, and engaged that sha 
should have it fresh prepared daily. 

Some patients will take the oil easiest in milk. Some find 
the taste annulled by eating a piece of red herring, or anchovy. 
or sardine, before and after the dose. Some like the bittei 
aromatic of cofiee to counteract the rankness ; and this fancy 

* The credit of introducing this to the profession is due to Dr. DobelL 
^ Equal to two pints and a quarter. 



CONSUMPTION. 339 

I am glad always to hear of; for it gives an opportunity for 
recommending a bitter drug which assists powerfully in the 
assimilation of the oil. If coffee is approved of, I then advise 
the oil to be taken as a parenthesis in a mixture of quinine, or 
of strychnine, or of both together. A sip of the medicine is 
to be taken, then the oil swallowed, and washed down with 
the remainder of the draught. If there is persistent nausea 
afterwards, a few drops of hydrocyanic acid may be added 
each time. Nausea may also be avoided by taking the oil on 
going to bed. Where there is cough, the sheets should be 
previously warmed. 

But the taking of cod-liver oil is not an exemption from 
all other care. The student of the literature of the subject 
will find his faith claimed by two extreme parties, one of 
which is all for beefsteaks, porter, and in short for as car- 
nivorous a diet as possible, the other in favour of pulse and 
herbs, seeds and potatoes. Both are as far right and as far 
wrong as it is probably possible to be. They are quite right 
in what they include, and quite wrong in what they exclude. 
The food should be as near that of health as the digestion of 
the patient will allow, that is to say, mixed and varied, liberal 
in frequency, and moderate in quantity. The whims of 
appetite should not be thwarted, nor the prejudices of theory 
indulged : the demands of muscular exertion should be pro- 
vided for by the starchy ingredients of the dietary, and the 
increased wear and tear of the machinery by the nitrogenous. 

The fall powers of digestion should be brought into ac- 
tivity by plenty of open air and exercise within the bounds of 
weariness. And this is the reason why English patients are 
advised to live during the winter months in more genial 
climes than their own. They get thus more sunlight and 
oxygen without damp. But also the change is good ; for it 
has been found that to those living in parts of Britain where 
the atmosphere is soft and mild, as in the West, a colder and 
more bracing air, provided it be dry, is sometimes beneficial. 
From Cornwall the small trading vessels will sometimes 

s2 



340 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

cany a consumptive miner to pass the winter in Greenland ; 
and patients have been sent with advantage from such 
localities as Leghorn to the exhilarating sharpness of a snow- 
clad Alpine upland. But this plan requires great caution. 

Much more confidently can the recommendation be given 
that the advantages of a sea-life should be favourably put 
before the youths of families, where there is an ancestral 
tendency to pulmonary tubercle. I do not mean that they 
should be driven into it against their will, but that it should 
be made as attractive as possible. The healthy state of a 
young sailor's digestive organs is the best guarantee that can 
be obtained against consumption. 

As to the use of alcohol in threatened cases, and in the* 
early stages of tubercle, I have no hesitation in pronouncing an 
opinion adverse to it. But if the morbid matter has broken 
down, and there is either nocturnal perspiration, copious 
purulent expectoration, diarrhoea, extreme emaciation, or 
depression of spirits, wine, especially port wine, in quantity 
equal to the occasion, is often of decided use. When the 
demand for it has passed away, it may be left ofi*. 



k 



341 



CHAPTER IX. 

DISEASE OF THE HEART AND ARTERIES. 

Section I. 

In disease of the heart the most remarkable change in respect 
of digestion is the slowness with which liquids are absorbed 
by the stomach. If much is drunk at once, it will remain a 
long time gurgling about, and, instead of assisting digestion, 
will offer an impediment and cause inconvenience. The reason 
of this is the slackening of the circulation of the blood, which 
is directly or indirectly effected by all the various cardiac 
lesions in common. Whether the heart is too thick or too 
thin, too large or too small, whether the openings of valves 
are obstructed by warty growth, or whether their stretched 
curtains fail to control the flux and reflux of the current, the 
practical result is one, namely, that the vital stream is un- 
naturally sluggish. Now it is a weU-known law governing 
the passage of liquids through membranes that it is promoted 
by the rapid movement, and retarded by the sluggish move- 
ment, of the fluid towards which the endosmosis is tending. 
It is clear, therefore, that the absorption of potables from the 
digestive canal into the blood must be deficient in close pro- 
portion to the obstruction presented by the defective machinery 
of the circulation. 

The observation of a dry diet contributes greatly to the 
comfort of the patients now being considered. The dinner 
should never be prefaced by soup, and the drink should be 
taken only in sips during the meal. And what is taken should 



342 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

not be cold, but at least have tbe chill taken off. When thirst 
occurs between meals, the same mle of sipping should be 
observed. In this way quite a sufficiency to supply the 
requirements of the kidneys may be introduced — indeed, more 
is probably got into the blood than when larger quantities are 
gulped down at once, chilling and paralysing the absorbent 
powers of the mucous membranes. 

Independent of the inconvenience which the indigestion of 
fluids causes, it may be feared also that the distcDsion of the 
stomach accompanying it interferes with the already laborious 
action of the heart, and aggravates the organic source of the 
malady. This is especially the case in Dilatation with Thinning 
of the heart's walls, and is least noticeable in Valvular 
Disease. 

Where Heart-disease is complicated with obesity, especially 
if the &.t is accumulated in the chest, the enforcement of a 
dry diet is stiU further to be viewed as imperative ; inasmuch 
as it contributes powerfully to the reduction of the hyper- 
trophied adipose tissue. 

The only symptom which may perhaps render it a doubtful 
policy is the occurrence of dropsy. Should this be very de- 
cided, it is of importance to keep the kidneys active to a 
degree that can be accomplished only by the ingestion of a 
considerable supply of watery drink. I think, however, this 
should be always followed up by purgative medicines, often 
even by mercurials. And when the necessity has ceased, the 
dry regimen should be resumed. 

The dietary of persons with imperfect hearts should be at 
least as nitrogenous as if they were completely sound. What 
we have to dread is the atrophic degeneration of the cardiac 
muscle, for till this degeneration occurs the original lesion is 
not aggravated ; and the constitution often gets so used to the 
state of mechanism of the heart that no inconvenience of any 
kind is felt. And atrophic degeneration is warded off by keep- 
ing up the redness and fluidity of the arterial blood. 

The importance of the existence or non-existence of valvular 



DISEASE OF THE HEART. 343 

disease lies not in the injury it directly inflicts, as in the likeli- 
hood of the induction of other lesions of the heart. If the 
mnscnlar structure remains healthy, injured valves do not 
appear capable of causing death. But very surely are they 
fatal when they are followed by dilatation or thickening or 
degeneration of the cardiac walls, with the sad train of 
dropsies, apoplexy, pulmonary hasmorrhage, &c. 

In 2161 post-mortem examinations at St. George's Hospital 
in ten years, the cardiac valves were diseased without the 
walls of the heart being affected 113 times ; but in every case 
there were other lesions amply suflBcient to account for death 
quite independent of the valves, such as accidents, surgical 
complaints, cancer, low fever, &c. In one alone, where ana- 
sarca from granular kidneys was the immediate cause of 
death, could any symptom be debited to diseased valves with 
healthy heart, and that symptom was pulmonary hssmor- 
rhage.^ 

In the classes of people represented by hospital patients, 
the probability that valvular disease will be followed by its un- 
happy consequences is very great. When a patient thus affected 
leaves our hospital wards, we expect to see him again shortly, 
and on each fresh admission with a more severe complaint. 
But the same expectation must not be applied to the more 
comfortable classes of society. Persons in easy circumstances 
have valvular lesions for years and years, perhaps through 
the greater part of a long life, and not only continue to live, 
but even fail to experience symptoms bad enough to consult 
a medical practitioner. 

In my volume of Clinical Lectures ^ I gave some two dozen 
examples of persons found, when examined for insurance, to 
have valvular lesions, but who, during periods varying from 
50 years downwards, had not in anywise suffered in conse- 
quence. This I attribute to their not being dependent for 

* Decennium JPathologicum^ MS. in library of Medico-Chirurgical Society, 
chap. X. sect. i. 

* Lect. XXV. 



344 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

daily bread on daily labour — in fact, to ease of mind and 
body. 

The renewal of the destroyed tissue being impossible, and 
equally so any mechanical compensation for the arrested 
function, it is obvious that in the treatment of the disorganised 
valves themselves, restorative medicine, in the strictest sense, 
must be quite at fault. But indirectly it is almost as effective 
in prolonging life, as if it could put in a new valve, or make 
another muscle do duty for the resting ventricle. It may 
repair those reparable conditions which are injurious, and 
which by Ixinging on enlargement constitute the real danger 
in cardiac eases. Let us try and cure what is curable, 
and trouble ourselves as little as possible about bygone 
injuries. 

While we bid our patients live generously, we must 
disabuse them of the notion that the advice includes a free 
allowance of alcohoL Alcohol is really the most ungenerous 
diet possible. Addiction to it impoverishes the blood, and is 
the surest road to that degeneration of the muscular fibres 
which is so much to be feared. And in diseases of the heart 
it is especially hurtful, by quickening the beat, causing 
capillary congestion and irregular circulation, and mechani- 
cally dilating the cavities. Let the fermented drink be 
limited to that quantity which -increases the appetite. Li a , 

great many instances this may be very shortly described as 
none at all, but often also, whether from the force of habit, or \ 

the nature of the constitution, a sip of wine enables a sufficient 
dinner to be eaten, and more fully digested than wben not 
thus assisted. Burgundy and Champagne are the best 
adapted for the purpose, as a small quantity of these wines is 
inspiriting, with a minimum of alcoholic contents. 

Section II. I 



In the treatment of Aneurism the science of diet plays a part 
diilerent from that which it plays in any other diseases which 



ANEURISM. 345 

wc liave been reviewing. In tliem it aims at restoring healtli 
by replacing wbat is deficient, and bringing tbe body directly 
into a state as near the fall natural state as possible. Here 
its intention more resembles that of a drug ; it would bring 
the blood temporarily into a morbid condition, to accomplish 
a certain definite object ; it makes a sacrifice to realise a future 
advantage. 

By Aneurism I mean the formation of a pouch in an artery 
through the yielding of the sides of the tube. The danger is 
lest they should go on yielding, burst, and let out the life- 
blood. Therefore, if the artery be a small one, and capable of 
being spared till it is replaced by a collateral circulation, 
meohanical surgery can save life by tying, compressing, 
obliterating it, or by removing the limb where it is situated. 
In the largest arteries such trenchant treatment is obviously 
impossible ; yet there are found from time to time instances of 
aneurism in even the largest arteries being rendered innocu- 
ous by a natural process. In patients who have died of other 
diseases, the pouch has been found plugged up, and leakage 
prevented by a firm caulk of fibrin, clotted out gradually from 
the blood. It is usually adherent to the roughened or torn 
sides of the artery. 

Why is not this happy cure always found ? In a great 
many cases because the mouth of the pouch is so wide and 
open that the blood cannot stagnate long enough to form a 
clot. But in others also, because the fiuid is so rich in non- 
coagulating material (to wit, blood-discs) that it coagulates 
with diflBculty, and under some circumstances not at all. 

In such a case-that is to say in a person whose fresh 
colour, muscular development, and good digestion show him 
to be healthy-blooded — if an aneurism forms, the best chances 
of restoration to safety are to be sought in making the 
circulating liquid — ^first, unnaturally stagnant, and secondly, 
unnaturally coagulable. 

These objects can be attained by keeping the patient in 
bed and starving him. Thus is produced an artificial 



346 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

anaemia, a state of blood in which the red discs are deficient, 
and the fibrin is in excess, a state in which coagnlatiou is 
at its maximnm, and the force of the heart at its minininTn* 
The method is commonly known as Valsalva's, and it 
has met with a sufficient measure of success to warrant a 
trial of it being made in every case where no impediments 
lie in the way. About fifteen years ago, I pnblished a clinical 
lecture on several patients treated thus, and I concluded that 
* not merely is it the best mode, but the only honest mode, of 
treating aneurisms of the trunk vessels ; because it is the 
only one we at present know consonant to reason and ex.* 
perience.* * 

The most successful cases are those where the sac is in 
the descending and abdominal aorta, as that of the stone-^ 
mason I mentioned in the lectures just quoted. Yet others 
are not to be despaired of. In the * British Medical Journal ' 
(December IG, 1865) is published a case by Dr. Waters of 
Liverpool, of thoracic aneurism successfdlly treated by rest 
and low diet, and Mr. Tufnell of Dublin has advocated its use 
in those cases of aneurism which would come under the care 
of a surgeon. 

Bread and water, or pudding and water as advised by 
Valsalva, and used as punishment diet at prisons, is the most 
effective. Valsalva gave as little as half a pound of pudding 
in the morning, and half a pound in the evening, till the 
pulsation of the tumour was arrested, and then he gradually 
increased the quantity till ordinaiy diet was resumed, carefully 
watching against a relapse, however, during this latter process. 
And I agree that it is better at once to try the experiment 
with extreme rigour, and give it up if necessity will have it so, 
than to shiver and vacillate on the brink of the serious struggle 
for life, perhaps too late to be of use. 

The confinement to bed must be absolute. 

To the future conduct of those who have suffered from 
aneurism, and in whom a recurrence of the disease is, of course, 

* Lectures Chiefly Clinical^ lect. xxiv. 



ANEUBISM. 347^ 

to be feared, it is obvious tbat the principles above advocated 
do not apply. The formation of an aneurismal sac is a degene-^ 
rative process ; and starvation, bleeding, and confinement to 
bed would be most deleterious, as tending to induce further 
debility and degeneration. The ansemic dietary is for the 
sole purpose of bringing about the formation of a clot, and 
the prevention of further degeneration of the arteries must 
follow an opposite path. Iron, nutritious food, good dry air, 
moderate exercise, and suitable clothing should be persever* 
ingly adhered to for the rest of the patient's life. 

I would strongly advocate, also, in the interests of the 
digestive organs, a change from the climate of England, where 
degenerative disease is the rule, and acute disease the excep- 
tion, to Italy, where degenerative disease is the exception and- 
acute disease the rule — a change, if not for life, at all events 
for long enough to alter the constitution. It may be remarked 
that it is in the absence of aneurism that this peculiarity of the 
Italian climate is shown. In the statistics of Milan Hospital 
(JB&ndiconto delta Benificenza delV Ospetale Maggiore^ SfCy 
1862), I find but 4 instances of thoracic aneurism in 61,7G1 
patients, or 1 in 15,440 ; whereas at St. Mary's Hospital^ 
London, I find 29 in 7,319 patients, or 1 in 252. AgaiD, at 
Genoa I find the last published bills of mortality (for 1860, 
printed by Dr. Giovanni du Jardin) without any deaths by 
aneurism. The corresponding report for London contains 103. 
The differences are so great, that the limited range of the 
observation is unimportant, and I cannot but conclude that 
there is something in the climatic influences of London 
favourable to, and something in Milan and Genoa antagonistic 
to, the formation of aneurism. 



I 






1,1 ,»■ 

•it Ji 



INDEX. 



■•o«- 



ACI 

ACIDS in atonic dyspepsia, 283 
Adulteration, definition of, 241 
Apue, 328 

Air, as a defence against intoxica- 
tion, 244 
Albuminuria, 305 

Alcohol, abstinence from, in gout, 
296 

— action (physiological) of, 106, 
221, 307 

— beneficial efiects of, 239 

— different forms of, 67, 240, 263, 
328 

— influence of nationality in con- 
sumption of, 245 

— injurious to children, 142, 251 

hysterics, 319 

nurses, 130 

— moral effects of, 245 

— use of in atonic dyspepsia, 286 

consumption, 340 

fevers, 262 

Alkaline drink, 277 

Almonds, 43, 265, 310 
Aneurism, 344 
Arrowroot, 66, 265 
Artichoke, 37 
Artichokes, Jerusalem, 34 
Asparagus, 33, 35 
Athletic training, 165, 198 
Athleticifoni evils of, 295 
Atonic dyspepsia, 240, 281 






CHE 

BACON, 54, 315 
Bael drink, 265 
Barley, 65 / 

— water, 81, 264 
Bathing, 175, 288, 334 
Batter pudding, 271 
Bed, Ijring in, 180 
Beef tea, 136,266, 309 
Biscuits, 64 

— and milk, 270 
Boils, 178, 187 

Brain, concussion of, 329 
Bread, 62, 284 

— brown, 316 

— pudding, 270, 278 

— sauce, 269 

— soup, 277 

Bright's disease of kidneys, 236,' 305* 
Butter, 60 
Buttermilk, 58 



CABBAGE, 33, 35 
Cardoons, 36 
Camivora, flesh of, 308 
Carrots, 34 
Caviare, 31, 53 
Celery, 40 

Cellulose, conversion into sugar, 51 
Change of air, 199, 297, 339 
Chantarelles, 38 
Cheerfulness, 116, 220, 254, 323 



^50 



INDEX. 



CHT5 



•Cheese, 60, 284, 309 
ChpstnuU, 37 
Chewing, 103, 107 
Chicken and *Hen' broth, 268 
•Children, diet of, 139 
Chocolate, 47, 93 
Oirrhosis from alcohol, 236 
Claret cup, 81, 265 
Cleanliness, 39, 42, 83, 95, 175 
<nimate, effects of; 191, 245 
in atonic dyspepsia, 289 

— — in consumption, 339 
in gout, 297 

— of Italy, 297, 347 
Clotted cream, 59 
*Cocoa, 47, 94 

Cod-oil, 336 

Coffee, 47, 93 

-Commercinl life, diet of, 147 

Condy's wash, 266 

'Constipation, 281, 286, 313 

Consumption, pulmonary, 336 

Cookery, 43, 83, 105 

Corpulence, reduction of, 178 

Crabs, 32 

Cream, 338 

Cucumber, 33, 40 

Cups, 81 

Cura<;oa, 81 

Curds, 59 



DEGENERATION, arterial, from 
alcohol, 238 

— in meat, 20, 26, 28 
Delirium tremens, 234, 322 
Diabetes, 308 
Diarrhoea, 186 

Diet, dry, 341 

Digestibility, degrees of, 114 
Digestible, meaning of, 111 
Digestion, 99 

— time of, 97 • 
Diluents, 41, 42, 81, 113, 279, 311 
Disease, transmission of, in meat, 26 
in milk, 50 

Dress, 142, 177, 197 

Ducks, 29 

Dynamic equivalents, 11 



E 



EL broth, 269 
Egg Nogg, 266 



INS 

Egg soup, 266 

Eggs, 29, 51, CI, 06, 98 
Emotion, action of, 110 
Eudosmosis, 110 
Enemata, nutritive, 262, 269, 326 



FAGGOT, for flavoai-ing, 317 
Famine, 192, 213 
Fasting, 122, 214 
Fevers, diet and regimen of, 257 
Fish, 30 

Flatulence, 281, 289, 342 
Flavourings, 40, 90, 95, 317 

— poisonous, 242 
Flounders, 290 

Food and work, 10, 15 i 

— natural, of man, 3 

— quantity of, 8, 14, 16, 121 
Fraud, 52 (note), 55, 63, 66, 73, 

241 
French beans, 38, 309 
Fruit, 42, 274, 309 
Fusel-oil, 76, 241 



GAME, 29, 30 
Geese, 29 
Gelatine, 278 
Gluttony, 142 
Gout, 276, 293 
— in the stomach, 301 
Grape sugar, 48, 67 
Gravel, 303 
Grits, 65, 264 
Groceries, 44 



HABIT, force of, 4 
Ham, 54, 185 
Hartshorn drink, 277 

— jelly, 277 
Heart, disease of, 341 
Heat, 113 

Hypochondriasis, 330 
Hysteria, 319 

— in the male, 321 



ICE, 81 
Infants, diet of, 129 
Inflammation, diet for, 273 



INDEX. 



351 



INT 



.Tntemperance, dangers of, 235, 244 
Iron in medicine, 78, 287, 289, 334 



"I UNKETS, 59 

"I7TDNEYS, activity of, defence 
j\. against alcohol, 244 
— diseases of, 303 



LEEKS, 35 
Lemonade, 81, 264 
Lentils, 38 
Lettuces, 42, 318 
Liebig's food for infants, 135 
Linseed tea, 264 
Literary life, diet of, 151 
Liver, sluggish, 281 
— use of, 123 
Luncheon, 40, 143, 179, 282 



MACARONI, 49, 193 
Maize, 65 
Malt liquors, 75, 311 

— tea, 270 
Mayonnaise, 290 
Meals, times of, 118 
Meat, choice of, 1 7 

— storing of, 98 
Milk, 6, 55, 130 

— boiled, 185 

— diet, 307, 336, 338 

— goats', 185 
Mineral waters, 80 
Mixed diet, 6 
Morels, 38 

Mothers, diet of, 130 
Mould, blue, 58 
Mushrooms, 38 
Mustard, 54, 302 
Mutton broth, 268, 278 

— club, 22 



FlURALGIA., 880 
Noxious trades, 161 
Nurse, choice of, 263 
Nutrition, 123 

Nutritiousness, comparative, 125 
Nuts, 43 



SAL 

OATMEAL, 65 
— flummery, 316 
— tea, 279 
Obesity, 342 
Oil, 52, 185 
Old age, 206, 217 
Olives, 52, 309 
Oxalate of lime, 303 
Oysters, 32 



PANADO, 266 
Parsnips, 35 
Partridge, 30, 85, 269 
Peas and beans, 37, 38, 51, 308 
Pepper, 53, 285, 289 
Pepsine, 261,285, 287 
Phosphates in medicine, 333 

urine, 306 

Physicking, 144 
Pickles, 53 
Pigeon, 269 
Porridge, 316 
Potato surprise, 291 
Potatoes, 33 

— for invalids, 271 
Poultry, 29 
Poverty, 88, 211 
Preserved food, 91, 97 
Professional life, diet of^ 151 
Puff-ball, 38 
Purgatives, 313, 326 

EAISINS, 48 
Eennet, 61, 263 
Rheumatic fever, diet in, 274 
Rheumatism, chronic, 302 
Rice, 49 

— gruel, 265 

— in broth, 269 
-- milk, 290 

— pudding, 270 
Rickets, 136, 334 
Riding, 301 
Rose tea, 279 

Rosin, use of, in wine, 242 
Rot in sheep, 20 
Rowing, 142, 167, 178 
Rye, 65 



SAGE tea, 279 
Salad, S9, %^% 



352 



INDEX. 






PAL 

a-ilmify, Za 

Suit, UM of, in wino, 243 

Salting, 91 

Siiuce, univontal, 94 (note), 28o,389 

KnuMges, d4 

Herofulii, 833 

Sonkiilo, 35 

8en-8ioknes8, 188 

Aemolina, 49 

ShcU-fihh. 32 

Sleep, wiiiit of, 187, 219, 240 

Soup for poor, 88 

— nieagro, 276 
Sour crout, 36, 111 
fipiccn, fA 
Spinach soup, 316 
Spirit UOU8 li(piors, 75 
Starch, con version of, 104 
Starvation, 201, 273, 845 
Stomach cough, 287 
Suet, 888 

Sugar, 47 

— action of, in dilation, 285 

— formation in body, 104, 124,308 
Sunstroke, 329 

Swiss condcnscil milk, 59, 134 



rPEA, 45, 120 
X — for inralids, 271 
Teeth. 4, 107 
Teething, 137 
Temperance societies, 253 
Temperature, influence of, in diges- 
tion, 275 
Toast and water, 81 
Tomatoes, 37, 40 
Travelling, hints about, 183 
Troade, 48 



Trichina, 25 

Truffles, 88 

Tubercle, softenixig of, arrested by 

alcohol, 240 
Turkeys, 20, 85 
Turtle, 81 

TTRIC acid, 803 

YARIETY, 114. 120, 140, 283 
Vegetable food, uses of, 32, 41, 
213,283,295,315, 831 

— marrow, 87 
Vegetables, cookery of, 89 

— storing of, 98 
Vermicelli, 49 
Vichy water, 277, 288 
Vinegar, 60, 184 

Voisin, on idiocy produced by al- 
cohol, 289 



TT7ATEB, choice of, 76 
f T — as a remedy, 243, 314 

— gruel, 65, 264 
Whey, 58, 263, 266 
Wine, 67 

— light, beneficial influence of, 251, 
298 

— in old age, 218 

— red, 315 
Winter greens, 36 
Worms, round, 42 

— tape, 23 

YAMS, 34 
Yeast, 64 






■ 



LONDOXt PEIKTKD BT 

8P0TTX8W00DB AVD CO., KBW-RTItVKT SQUAlUa 

AVD PARLIAHEVT bTBBKT 



49 



