Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



DIET FOR THE SICK 



BEING 



NUTRITIOUS COMBINATIONS SUITABLE FOR 
SEVERE CASES OF ILLNESS 



BY 



J. J. RIDGE, 



M.I)., B.S., B.A., B.SC. LOND., L.R.C.P., UNIVERSITY SCHOLAR IN SURGERY 
AND GOLD MEDALLIST UNIVEJB9S3fr^5F?i4}NDON. 







LONDON 
J. & A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET 

i"875 



/Sf 



5^. 



PREFACE. 

The compilation of this little book has bten forced 
upon me by repeatedly felt necessity. The diet of 
the invalid is as important as his medicine, and 
sometimes more so. The doctor is, therefore, very 
properly applied to, in order to know what should be 
given. In the case of invalids who can take the 
ordinary forms of food, there is generally no difficulty; 
there is no lack of variety, and usually sufficient 
knowledge on the part of nurse or cook as to how 
to prepare it. But in the case of more severe illness, 
where only spoon-food can be taken, there is more 
trouble. The resources of the cook in tempting a 
poor appetite are often soon exhausted. 'WVss.^Vi.^'^- 



4 PREFACE. 

tea is ordered, it is too often improperly or wastefully 
prepared ; and, when the sheet-anchors, beef-tea, milk, 
or eggs, cannot be taken, the greatest difficulty arises^ 
I have frequently given written directions how to 
make beef-tea properly, and also other things ; but, in 
a busy practice, it is well-nigh impossible to do this 
often. I have, therefore, collected a number of various 
combinations suitable for different cases. Some are 
original recipes, amongst them being those which have 
been devised to take the place of milk when this dis- 
agrees, and others which are substitutes for beef-tea. 
I shall now be able to refer my patients to the proper 
recipes by number, and I trust they will find this 
little work no inconsiderable benefit in time of need. 

J. J. R. 



Carlton House, Enfield, 
Middlesex. 



CONTENTS. 



&• JUWwX*lC<lr ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

2. Essence of Meat 

3. Concentrated Meat Juice ... 

4. Liebigfs Extract of Meat ... 

5. Egg, Cream, and Sago Broth 

6. Egg and Corn-flour Broth ... 

7. Oatmeal Broth 

8. Corn-flour and Essence of Meat 

9. Barley and Liebig's Broth 

la Barley, Milk, and Liebig's Broth 

11. Barley, Albumen, and Liebig's Broth 

12. Barley Broth ... 

13. Baked-flour Broth. 

14. Meat Panada... 

15. Meat Biscuits (i) 

16. Do. do. (2) 

17. Raw Meat ... 

18. Mutton Broth (i) 

19. Do. do. (2) 

20. Do. do. (3) 

21. Veal Broth ... 



PAGB 
II 

19 
20 

22 

22 

23 

23 

23 

23 

24 

24 

24 

24 

25 

25 

25 
26 

26 

26 

27 



CONTENTS. 



22. Chicken Broth 

23. Calf's-foot Broth ... 



••• ••• ••• ••• 



• • • * • • 



• • • • • • 



> • • • • • 



• • • • • • 



• •• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••! 



• •• ••• ••■ 



• • • • • I 



• •• ••« •■• ••• ••< 



MILK 

24. Farinaceous Milk... 

25. Arrowroot, Corn-flour, &c., with Milk 

26. Farinaceous Milk Pudding 

27. Arrowroot or Corn-flour Blanc-mange 

28. Rice Blanc- mange... 

29. Milk Soup 

30. Baked Custard Pudding 

31. Boiled Custard 

32. Lemon Cream 

33. Orange Cream 

34. Milk Gruel ... 

35. Milk Panada... 

36. Iceland Moss and Milk 

37. Lentil Milk Soup 

38. Gelatinized Milk (i) 

39. Do. do. (2) 

4a Gelatin or Isinglass Blanc-mange 

41. Artificial Milk (i) 

42. Do. do. (2) 

43. Do. do. (3) 

44. Panada 

45: Cream Panada 

46. Iceland Moss Soup 

47. Lentil Soup 



• • • • • I 



• • • • • • 



• • • • • < 



• • • • • I 



• • • • ■ • 



• • • • • i 



• * 



•■• ••• ••• 



••• ••• ••• 



WHEY . 

^£ Rennet Whey 

49. Vin^ar Whey 



• • • • • • 



• • • • • • 



PAGE 
28 
2S 

29 

30 

30 

30 

31 

31 

31 

32 

32 

33 
33 
34 
34 
34 
35 
35 
36 
36 
36 
37 
37 
38 
38 
38 
38 

39 
39 



CONTENTS. 



t • • • • 



• • • • 



• • • • • 



50. Lemon or Orange Whey ... 

51. Two-milk Whey 

52. Cream Whey 

53. Barley Water 

54. Panustaqua (Toast and Water) 

J J 9 X W<A ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• ••• 

56. Lemon Tea ... 

57. Cold Water 

58. Lemon Drink (i) ...' 

59. Do. do. (2) 

60. Artificial Lemon Juice 

61. Imperial Drink 

62. Neutral Lemon Drink 

63. Apple Water 

ENEMATA 

64* Digested Meat Enema 

65. To make Grape Sugar 

66. Egg and Sugar Enema 

67. Fat and Sugar Enema 

r Nos. 29 to 43, 
Nitrogenous Aliments, prepared! Nos. 46 and 47, 

without Beef-tea, &c j Especially Nos. 371040, 

(^ and No. 47. 

( Nos. 6 to 9, 
Carbonaceous Aliments, prepared j Nos. 11 to 14, 
without Milk j Nos. 18 to 2y, 



PACE 
40 
40 
40 

41 
41 

42 
42 
42 

43 
43 
44 
44 
44 
44 

44 

45 
46 

47 
47 




DIET FOR THE SICK. 



When, in consequence of some disease or accident, 
an invalid becomes unable or unwilling to take solid 
food, the nurse is often at her wits' end to tempt the 
appetite and to administer sufficient nutriment. This 
is even a more arduous task when, as sometimes 
happens, there are peculiarities about the case which 
forbid the employment of some of the most common 
articles of invalid's diet, or some special inability 
to digest them, or some unusual aversion to their 
flavour. 

In the latter case it is sometimes the fault of the 
nurse, sometimes that of the cook. The food may be im- 
properly cooked — the beef-tea may resemble pig-wash, 
being half cold, insipid or too salt, thin and pale, very 
greasy, and with pieces oi\iToV«v\i\^^.^'^^'«i:s>5i%x^^ 
or the milk may be burnt, the cot^x-^on^Nssks^^^-^^ 



10 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

on. The nurse may bring it up with a dirty cloth, or 
let it cool by negligence, or may put before the 
patient too much at a time, or allow him to smell the 
preparation of it half an hour before it is ready. 

Some patients, again, have a rooted dislike to beef- 
tea, often, however, because they have been sickened 
of it some time or other by some such improper 
preparation. Others cannot take milk; others are 
unable to digest eggs. When the illness lasts more 
than a very few days, another element comes in ; for 
the patient gets tired of the same diet, day after day, 
and the nurse may not know, or may not think, how 
to vary it. 

Beef-tea is undoubtedly the chief resource of nurse 
and invalid, and the estimation in which it is held is not 
altogether unmerited, though, perhaps, rather too high. 
Much of the beef-tea that is made is, however, un- 
worthy of the name. A great deal of it consists of 
little more than so much gelatin, with very little 
flavour of the meat, if any. Nearly all the cookery 
books direct that beef-tea shall be boiled more or less 
before it is strained, and the consequence is that much 
of the nourishment of the meat is left behind, and the 
cYfojt prides herself on the clearness oi >i!£v& \i^^^-\«a-j 
^d converts the residue of the beef m\.o ^o\X^^xftfi»x 



DIET FOR THE SICK. II 

for the rest of the family. In many a poor home not 
even this is done ; a few pence are anxiously scraped 
together by much self-denial to furnish the poor 
invalid with the luxury of beef-tea, and in making it 
not half the nutritive matter of the meat is extracted, 
and the rest is thrown away ! 

I commence this collection of recipes for the diet 
of the sick by a method of making beef-tea so as to 
avoid the usual waste, and, after giving the method, I 
shall explain the philosophy of it so as to encourage 
the nurse to carry it out properly and intelligently. 

I. — Beef-tea, 

(i.) Take one pound of lean gravy beef and cut it 
into pieces as small as possible. A sausage machine 
will accomplish this most thoroughly, and thus save 
half the time of step No. 4, while it will enable you 
to extract all the "goodness" of the meat more 
thoroughly. 

(2.) Place the meat in a preserve jar with one salt- 
spoonful of salt, and put the jar in a saucepan suffi- 
ciently large to allow the lid to be placed on when the 
jar is in it 

(3.) Mix in a large jug equal o^^axtotovs.^ V^sa^^Sc^^ 
measured) of boiling watei atvA. ccJV^^^'^^'^* 



12 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

(4.) Put half a pint of this mixed water into the jat 
which contains the meat, and pour sufficient of the 
remainder into the saucepan outside the jar to reach 
as high as the water inside the jar, then put the lid on 
the saucepan and place it on the hearth, not on the 
fire or on the hob. It will do no harm to cover the 
saucepan with a cloth or anything which will keep in 
the heat 

(5.) The meat must remain in the jar from three- 
quarters of an hour to two hours, according to the 
fineness to which it has been chopped, being stirred 
every quarter of an hour. If cut into pieces a little 
smaller than dice one hour and a half will be suffi- 
cient At the end of this time take out the jar and 
strain through a hair sieve, or through muslin with 
gentle pressure. 

(6.) Place the red meat-juice thus obtamed in a 
small saucepan and heat it to boiling while you stir. 
It will turn brown and curdle. Set it on one side for 
the present 

(7.) Now take the meat, which was left in the 

sieve at the end of step No. 5, and put it into a 

saucepan with a quart of boiling water, cover, and let 

Jt simmer over a ^ow fire for three hours \ then allow 

Jt to boil and strain immediately. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 1 3 

(8.) Now boil this strained liquor down to half a 
pint. 

(9.) Then mix this half pint with the half pint left 
at the end of step No. 6, and you will have one pint 
of strong beef-tea containing all the soluble portion of 
the meat. 

It may be necessary to remove some fat from the 
beef-tea. This will be best done by allowing it to get 
cold, and then taking off the solid fat from the top. 
It should be warmed up again when required by 
putting the requisite quantity in a cup and placing 
this in a basin of boiling water. If any fat remains it 
may be removed when hot by means of white blotting 
paper which will soak it up if laid on the surface. 

The beef-tea thus prepared will be found sufficiently 
appetizing to tempt most people, but, if desired, 
various flavouring ingredients may be added according 
to taste. Thus, a little mace, or allspice, or a clove 
may be put into the water with the meat at step No. 7. 
Or a little powdered sage, mint, or thjrme, &c., may 
be stirred up with it at step No. 9 ; or a little Worces- 
tershire or other sauce may be added afterwards. 

Not only should the flavovu: be toothsome, but the 
appearance also should be agtee^icJva ^sj^^i^ 'esssj^s^-bsss^^- 
A rich brown beef-tea m\\ oft.w.^i^ \a^^^ ^^^€ib.^^^ 



14 DIET FOR THE SICK, 

by an invalid whose delicate stomach will turn at the 
very sight of pale, watery-looking, or greasy fluid, such 
as they are too often expected to enjoy. In most 
cases, therefore, let some means be adopted to colour 
the beef-tea. Half a thin slice of bread may be used, 
toasted to a rich brown colour and placed in the water 
at step No. 7 ; instead of this a piece of burnt onion 
the size of half a walnut may be put in ; or a little 
burnt sugar may be added afterwards. The richness 
of the colour, however, must never be allowed to 
supersede careful preparation, and this could easily be 
detected by observing if the flakes of albumen are 
present in sufficient quantity when hot, and if it sets 
properly when cold. 

It will be well to observe the reasons of the various 
steps here given, which may look very complicated on 
paper, but are really very simple and easy to follow. 
Each must be strictly carried out or the result will be . 
disappointing and unsatisfactory. 

The meat is of course finely chopped in order that 

the water may reach and dissolve what it can more 

readUy. Good beef consists of about 73 parts of water 

and 27 parts of solid matter in every 100 parts ot 

jneat. One hundred grains of the so\\ds eoissi^x. o€ 

^l>out Ji/ty-seven grains of albuminous subsXasic^^ xvoit 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 1 5 

soluble in water ; about eight grains of albumen and 
colouring matter which are soluble in cold water ; about 
thirteen grains of gelatinous substances soluble only in 
hot water ; about eleven grains of various other soluble 
substances, and eleven grains of fat. Now the eight 
grains of matters soluble in cold water are coagulated, 
as it is called, or curdled, if the temperature is raised 
above 135° Fahrenheit If then the beef-tea is allowed 
to approach the boiling point in the process of making, 
and the fluid is afterwards strained, most of this curdled 
albumen will be left behind in the form of flakes and 
thrown away with the meat. This is the principal 
mistake in the usual directions for making beef-tea. 
If, however, the meat is soaked in water, as directed 
in step No. 4, these soluble matters are taken up, 
carried through the sieve, and can then be used in 
various ways. This red liquor contains also most of 
the eleven grains of other soluble materials before 
mentioned — they form the most stimulating part of 
the beef-tea, and the only portions which are present 
in Liebig's Extract of Meat, and the other similar con- 
centrated beef-teas. They are very necessary ingredi- 
ents of meat, and likewise of good beef-tea, but their 
valine as nourishment is very small Whe?i Liebig's 
extract was first introduced a few years ago^ maiv^ 



1 6 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

people formed erroneous opinions of its value, and, 
since it is easily prepared, used and depended on it 
too much. I remember being called to attend an 
elderly lady who was clearly undergoing a process of 
slow starvation. She could not understand her in- 
creasing weakness, because she had been taking large 
quantites of this beef-tea. A return to a more sensible 
diet speedily restored her. 

In this red liquor we therefore get from half to 
three-quarters of an oimce of the essential parts of the 
pound of meat When the meat is slowly stewed in the 
hot water, as directed in step No. 7, the gelatin and 
other similar substances become dissolved while some 
of the fat floats on the surface. The amoimt of gelatin 
thus extracted depends chiefly on the heat of the 
water and the length of time during which it is stewed. 
This is the material which causes the beef-tea to " set " 
when it becomes cold It is generally brought up as 
a proof of the goodness of the beef-tea that it was 
" quite a jelly " when cold. The gelatin, which is the 
cause of this, is imdoubtedly of value, but it neverthe- 
less requires more power of digestion to dispose of it 
than is generally supposed, and forms but one-tenth 
part of all the solids of the beef; there is, in other 
words, about half-an-ounce of dry gelatin in a pound 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 1 7 

• 

of the meat Good beef-tea should contain all of the 
soluble substances, and these will amount to about 
oiie ounce and a quarter of dry solids dissolved in a 
pint of water. This may at first sight seem a very 
small amount, but not so when it is remembered that 
if the original pound of meat, from which it has been 
derived, were dried in the same manner it would be 
reduced to four ounces. The remaining two and 
three-quarter ounces consist only of fat and insoluble 
fibrinous substances whose value as nourishment to 
the invalid is far less. 

' Where the digestive powers still retain, or have re- 
covered, a fair amount of power it may, in some cases, 
be useful to increase the amount of gelatin in the beef- 
tea by putting some broken up bones into the water 
at step No. 7. Instead of this a quarter of an ounce 
of isinglass or gelatin may be put in. 

We are now prepared to understand some modifi- 
cations of the above plan which special circui^stances 
may render desirable. 

2. — Essence of Meat, 

In cases of intense debility, in stvere feverSf with very 
weak digestive powers, or in some cases of indigestion, 
or extreme prostration firom diarrhoea in adults or 



1 8 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

infants it is sometimes advisable to give the essence of 
meat without even the gelatin which is present in beef- 
tea, and in its soluble form, that is, not curdled or 
coagulated by heat 

It is to be prepared thus : take half a pound of fresh 
beef, cut it up as finely as you can, add to it half a pint 
of cold rain water which has been filtered twice, as much 
salt as will lie piled upon a sixpence, and five drops of 
pure muriatic acid (which is sold under the name of 
* spirits of salts/) Stir these well, and after one hour 
filter through a conical sieve without pressure. The 
fluid will be thick at first and this must be returned into 
the sieve until it runs through clear. Now pour very 
slowly on the meat in the siev/e, another half-pint of cold, 
twice-filtered rain-water and let it run through without 
pressure. There will be about three-quarters of a pint 
of a red solution of meat containing most of the albumen, 
most of the colouring and flavouring matter, the salts, and 
the other soluble materials. A wineglassfiil of this may 
be taken when required either cold, or slightly warmed 
by putting it in a jar or botde and placing this in a mix- 
ture of boiling and cold water as directed in step No. 
3, page II. If heated too much it will turn muddy, 
change colour, and be less easily digested. 

This is really a solution of raw meat, and to some 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 1 9 

people the very idea will be repugnant and cause them 
to loathe it. We should be careful, therefore, that 
the nature of the preparation should never be hinted 
at in the presence or hearing of the patient. As the 
colour, however, might betray its fleshy origin it is 
highly desirable that it be coloured by means of burnt 
sugar, and, if preferred, also flavoured with a little 
spice or Worcestershire sauce. 

3. — Concentrated Meat Juice, 

Another plan may be adopted by which the stimu- 
lating portions of the meat are obtained together with 
a good deal of its soluble nourishment But in this 
case the albumen is coagulated, and it is, therefore, not 
so easily digested as the preceding. On the other 
hand, a fluid is produced which contains more nutri- 
ment in a given quantity than the ^^ Essence of Meat^' 
does, and it is therefore suitable to cases where very^ 
little can be taken, and yet where the powers of 
digestion are still equal to some work. It is in one 
respect wasteful since much of the nourishment of the 
meat is not extracted, but this waste may be obviated 
by adopting the economical recommendation that the 
residue should be made into potted meat, which is 
often appended to recipes for making ordinary beef-tea. 



20 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

Take then, half a pound of lean meat, cut it up 
finely and put it into a preserve jar with two tablC' 
spoonfuls of cold water and a very little salt. Put 
the jar into a saucepan containing a little boiling 
water, and put a saucer (right side uppermost) over, the 
jar. Add more boiling water if required, put on the 
lid, and put the saucepan on the fire to boil for two 
hours. Then take out the jar and pour off the fluid, 
using pressure. Let it stand till cold and then take 
off the fat. 

If a double saucepan is among your kitchen utensils 
it will be found to answer admirably for this pre- 
paration. 

4. — Lieh^s Extract of Meat. 

This, as I have said, contains only part of the 
nutriment of the meat. The meat is cut up and put 
into cold water by which the most soluble parts of the 
meat are taken up. This fluid is boiled and the albu- 
men which coagulates is removed. It is then boiled 
down to the thick state in which it is sold. When 
required for use it is to be dissolved in boiling water 
in the proportion of one small teaspoonful to a pint of 
water. 

This extract of meat is not to be relied on as a 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 21 

nourishment to the exclusion of other things. By 
itself its principal use is as a stimulant. In the 
performance of hard muscular work during health its 
value is surprising, it seems to act as a special 
stimulant to muscle (from which it is derived), and 
the effect produced is that the feeling of tiredness and 
exhaustion, which long exercise had brought on, is 
gradually abated or removed. This refreshing in- 
fluence continues for two or three hours enabling one 
to continue the work without the excessive fatigue pre- 
viously felt. This effect, moreover, is not succeeded 
by greater depression of the powers, such as occurs 
with the use of alcoholic stimulants for the s^ne pur- 
pose. Although its effect is not as rapidly perceived 
as the effect of alcohol, its permanence is many times 
more lasting, and its consequences in no sense 
injurious. Its use as a muscular stimulant, how- 
ever, whether in cases of severe fever or failing 
heart, belongs to the province of the physician, 
and it should only be employed in this way undei: 
his direction. 

Liebig's Extract may be used advantageously when 
some beef-tea is suddenly required and there is no 
time to get meat or prepare it properly. In this case 
it may be added to some broth from boiled bones ; 



22 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

or, again, it may be mixed with a little sago, tapioca, 
arrow-root, or corn-flour made thin with water. 

These mixtures of farinaceous and animal sub- 
stances are often very useful, especially if milk cannot 
be taken, and I therefore give some recipes which are 
suitable. 

5. — E^j Creaniy and Sago Broth. 

Take one oimce of sago and wash it well Then 
stew it in half a pint of water till it is very soft, gradu- 
ally evaporating it down to about one half. Beat up 
one egg with a quarter of a pint of cream, and add 
this to the sago slowly, stirring well. Lastly, stir in, 
in the same way, one pint of good boiling beef-tea. In 
case of necessity, Liebig's Extract dissolved in water 
may be used instead. 

6. — Egg and Corn-flour Broth. 

Take one large teaspoonful of corn-flour and half a 
pint of cold water. Mix the corn-flour smoothly with 
a little of the water, then add the remainder. Heat 
it over the fire, stirring all the while, and remove when 
it thickens. Mix with it gradually one pint of hot 
l?eeAtea. Whtn it has become nearly cool enough to 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 23 

swallow, Stir into it one egg which has been previously 
well beaten up. 

In both these recipes the egg may be omitted when 
it is known to disagree. 

7. — Oatmeal Broth, 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of oatmeal with three of 
cold water. Add one pint of boiling beef-tea and let 
them boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. If 
the beef-tea is good, made after my plan, it should not 
be strained ; but if it is simply meat broth it may be 
strained before serving. 

8. — Corn-flour and Essence of Meat, 

In some severe cases the Essence of Meat (No. 2, 
page 17), may advantageously be combined with corn- 
flour prepared as above. 

9. — Barley and Liebi^s Broth, 

Mix a teaspoonfiil of Liebig's Extract with a pint of 
boiling barley water. Add salt, or flavour to taste. 

10. — Bar ley y Milk^ and Liebi^ s Broth. 

Mix the Liebig's Extract and barley water as in No. 
9, and then add a teacupful of milk. 



24 1>IET FOR THE SICK. 

1 1. — Barley f Albumen, an4 Liebi^s Broth. 

Instead of adding milk as in No. lo, take the whites 
of two eggs, beat them up with two tablespoonfuls of 
milk and stir in gradually when the barley and meat 
broth is cool enough to be swallowed. 

12. — Barky Broth, 

Take a tablespoonful of pearl barley and wash it in 
cold water. Boil it for fifteen minutes in half a pint of 
water. Then put it into a pint of beef-tea (No. i) and 
boil for an hour, adding boiling water now and then to 
maintain the quantity. If desired add milk or albu- 
men as in No. lo or No. ii. 

13. — Baked Flour Brothn 

Instead of barley^ baked flour may be used. A good 
teaspoonful should be mixed smoothly with a little 
cold water, then stirred into a quarter of a pint of hot 
water, and the whole should be made to boil; a pint 
of hot beef-tea or mutton-broth should then be added. 

14. — Meat Panada, 

Grate up a teacupful of bread crumbs, pour on them 
half a pint of boiling water and boil till it thickens ; 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 25 

then mix well with some gravy, some Liebig's Extract, 
or some Essence of Meat (No. 2). 

15. — Meat Biscuits (i). 

Take some concentrated meat juice (No. 3), put it 
into a jar and the jar into the oven or near the fire 
until the contents become of the consistence of thin 
treacle. When cool knead it with sufficient wheaten 
flour and butter or lard to make dough, adding a little 
salt and powdered herbs. Roll it out and cut it into 
shapes; Bake slightly in the oven. These may be 
eaten as they are or pounded up and then mixed with 
boiling water to make soup. 

16. — Meat Biscuits (2). 

Take some meat prepared as in No. 1 7> and mix 
with wheaten flour, butter, salt, and any flavouring 
herb or sauce preferred. Cut and bake as before. 

If required to keep long, both 15 and 16 must be 
made without butter or lard. 

17. — Raw Meat. 

This is sometimes useful in dyspepsia, debility with, 
or without, hectic fever, or in diarrhoea, &c. 
The meat, either beef or mutton, should be free 



26 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

from fat and skin. It should be placed on a bard 
board and scraped with a knife. The pulp may be 
salted, sweetened, or seasoned according to taste. It 
may be taken with a spoon, or spread on bread and 
butter, or as a sandwich. An adult may take one or 
two tablespoonfuls at a time. 

1 8. — Mutton Broth (i). 

This may be prepared from the neck (including 
the bones) in exactly the same way as beef-tea, No. i. 
It is advisable, however, that about two ounces of 
pearl barley, sago, or rice, which has been first washed 
in cold water, then boiled in half a pint of water for 
fifteen minutes and strained; should be added to the 
boiling broth during step No. 7, one hour before it is 
removed from the fire. 

i^,-— Mutton Broth (2). 

When this broth is used simply as a change from 
beef-tea, also when other nourishment is taken and it 
is not thought worth while to extract all the virtue of 
the mutton, the following plan may be adopted: — 
Take one pound of the scrag of mutton, cut it up into 
small pieces, bones and all, take also two tablespoon- 
fuls of pearl barley, a small onion sliced (one slice 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 27 

having been burnt), a small piece of celery leaf (if 
procurable), a small carrot in slices, five or six pepper- 
corns, and a few sweet herbs according to taste. Put 
these into two quarts of cold water, let it boil gently 
down to one pint and a half, and strain. When cold 
take off the fat Warm again before serving. 



20. — Mutton Broth (3). 

A simpler and cheaper plan is to take the pound of 
mutton, cut it up as before, take a thick slice of 
bread, toast one half of it a rich brown colour, crumble 
the other half and put it into two quarts of cold water 
with any flavouring preferred, or even without any ; 
boil gently to a pint and a half and strain. Take oflf 
the fat when cold if it be objected to. 

21. — VecU Broth. 

Make this in the same way as directed for mutton 
broth. 

The flesh of young animals contains more albumen 
than that of the old. There is therefore great advan- 
tage in preparing them according to No. i or No. 2, 
and great waste if any other plan is adopted. 



2^ DI^T FOR THE SICK. 

22. — Chicken Broth. 

Take half a fowl, remove the skin and any fat 
visible, and score it all over with a knife down to the 
bones without separating the meat Place this in a 
jar with two tablespoonflils of water and treat it as 
No. 3. Pour off the fluid when ready and set it aside. 
Then separate the meat, break the bones, and boil 
with a litde salt, half a small onion in slices (one slice 
having been burnt), and a small bimch of sweet herbs 
in one quart of water, allowing it to simmer down to 
three quarters of a pint, then strain and add to the 
portion previously obtained. Take off imy fat when 
cold. 

2Z.—Calfs Foot Broth. 

Take one calfs foot, clean it well, put it into three 
pints of water with a little lemon peel and let it simmer 
for three hours, then boil it down to one pint, and 
strain. When cold take off any fat When required 
for use, take'half a pint of the broth and m,elt it over 
the fire. Then take one tgg, beat it up well with a 
small lump of pounded sugar, a small piece of butter 
(not more than half an ounce), and a little grated nut- 
meg. Add these to the broth as soon as it is melted, 
JU2d 5tir till it thickens, then remove from the fire 



lUNNGROOM 






7. READERS NAME (bk>ck lettsi^) 



7 A bU.i 

lADER'S 
ET NUMBER 





ro 



> 

c 

o 



m . 



o 



wj 



I - 

m 

5 ^ 



*^ 



O 

i 
i ■ 

o O 

< 



19 

>il after 



in the 
trtunate 

is nc^ 
ito the 
ble for 

theouie 
. New 
btmxDsf 
lis sold 
f milk is 
iilMi ofa 
is bene^ 

er; It 

Old also 
it so 89 



\ 



30 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

24. — Farinaceous MUk. 
Take a pint of milk and one large teaspoonful of 
baked flour, corn-flour, or arrowroot; mix either of the 
latter with a little cold milk, then add this to the 
rest of the milk when hot, and boil for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. Sweeten according to taste. 
The amount of farinaceous matter may be varied at 
pleasure, and a drop or two of essence of lemon, or 
some grated nutmeg can be added to flavour it. 

25. — Arrowroot^ Corn-flour^ &*c.y with Milk. 

The ordinary proportion is two good-sized tea- 
spoonfuls to half a pint of milk. 

26. — Farinaceous Milk Pudding, 

Take a pint of milk and one large tablespoonfiil of 
baked flour, corn-flour, ground rice, or arrowroot, one 
Qgg^ and one tablespoonful of sugar. Mix the flour 
with a little cold milk. Boil the rest of the milk and 
pour it boiling on the paste. Then stir in the egg and 
sugar which have been previously beaten up together, 
pour into a dish, and bake for fifteen minutes. If pre- 
ferred, the whole may be boiled for five minutes, 
stirring all the time. 



DIET FOk THE SICK, 3 1 

27. — Arrowroot or Corn-flour Blanc-mange. 

Take two large tablespoonfuls of either of these 
farinas, one pint of milk, sugar, and flavouring to taste. 
Mix with a little of the milk, boil the rest, and stir 
in with the paste. Boil all together for ten minutes 
stirring constantly. Four into a mould and allow it to 
cool. 

28. — Rice Blanc-mange. 

Take a large tablespoonful of rice, let it soak in hot 
water for an hour, pour off" the water, and boil it with 
half a pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
any flavouring ingredient. Add more milk if required 
and boil to a paste. Put it into a mould to cool. 

29. — Milk Soup. 

Take one pint of milk, one inch of stick cinnamon, 
one teaspoonfiil of sugar, and half a small teacupful of 
stale bread crumbs. Mix all the ingredients and boil 
for ten minutes. Then remove from the fire and take 
out the cinnamon. Beat up the yolk of one egg with 
a little milk, and add gradually to the boiled milk 
when it has cooled a little. Then replace on the fire 
and stir till it thickens. 

Spongecakes and rusks will often tempt invalids, but 



32 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

are difficult to make properly, and can generally be 
purchased. They may be soaked in boiling milk if 
preferred. 

30. — Baked Custard Pudding. 

Take half a pint of milk and put it into a saucepan 
with one and a half ounces of sugar, and two or three 
drops of essence of lemon or almonds and let it boiL 
Have ready one t%g^ well beaten up; pour the milk 
on the t%%^ stirring all the while. Pour it into a dish, 
grate on it a little nutmeg, and bake for half an hour. 

31. — Boiled Custard, 

Put half a pint of milk into a jug, add to it two or 
three lumps of loaf sugar and some flavoming 
ingredient. This may be either one large laurel leaf, 
or the rind of quarter of a lemon, or two or three 
drops of essence of almonds, lemon, or vanilla. Let 
the jug stand in a saucepan of boiling water over the 
fife for half an hour, then strain it into a basin and 
let it cool. Beat up two eggs well and stir them into 
the milk when somewhat cooled. Strain back again 
into the jug, and put it again in the boiling water ; stir 
it incessantly one way until it thickens, but on no 
account allow it to boil. Pour it into cups to cool and 
grate nutm^ over it 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 33 

32. — Lemon Cream, 

Put into a lined or block-tin saucepan one pint of 
milk, one ounce of gelatin, six ounces of lump sugar, 
a few drops of essence of lemon, and four bitter 
almonds which have been well beaten up in a mortar. 
Boil for five minutes and strain into a jug. Beat up 
the yolks of three eggs and add to the milk, stirring 
all the while. When getting cool, stir in well the 
juice of one large lemon, which has been previously- 
strained, and keep stirring until it is almost cold. 
Put it into an oiled mould or basin and let it remain 
imtil perfectly set 

33. — Orange Cream. 

An economical but pleasant dish may be made by 
taking half an ounce of gelatin, three large oranges, 
half a lemon, three ounces of pounded loaf sugar, the 
yolk of one egg, and one pint of milk. Rub the sugar 
on the outside of the oranges and lemon, squeeze out 
the juice ; beat up the egg and mix with the juice and 
sugar. Boil the gelatin in the milk until dissolved, 
and pour it very gradually on the other ingredients, 
and stir till nearly cold. 



34 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

34. — Milk Gruel. 

Take one large tablespoonful of oatmeal, or of 
Robinson's patent groats, or of Embden groats. Mix 
them gradually with a wineglassful of cold water. 
Boil a pint of milk ; pour it on the oatmeal or groats, 
stirring well Pour all back into the saucepan, and 
boil for ten minutes, stirring constantly. Add salt, or 
else sugar and flavouring to taste. 

35. — Milk Panada. 

Grate up a teacupful of stale bread crumbs ] add 
boiling water to cover them, and, when soft, beat 
up thoroughly. Put them into a pint of milk, boil, 
and stir till it thickens. Sweeten and flavour with 
lemon, almond, cinnamon, or vanilla, according to 
taste. 

36. — Iceland Moss and Milk, 

Take one ounce of Iceland moss, and soak it in 
half a pint of hot water for a quarter of an hour. 
Strain, and boil the moss in a quart till it is reduced 
to a pint Strain agam, and boil the water down to a 
third of a pint Mix this with half a pint of hot milk, 
siveetenj and flavour to taste. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 35 

37. — Lentil Milk Soup, 

Take one tablespoonful of lentil flour, one teaspoon- 
fiil of corn-flour, and three-quarters of a pint of milk. 
Mix the lentil and corn-flour with a little of the milk 
to the consistence of cream j boil the rest of the milk 
with a little sugar and any flavour preferred ; pour it 
slowly on the flour and milk, stirring well. Then boil 
for ten minutes, still stirring. Salt may be used 
instead of sugar. 

N.B. — ^The above is an excellent substitute for beef- 
tea, since lentils contain a very large quantity of 
vegetable albumen; a J)eaten-up t^ may be added 
afterwards with advantage. 



1%.— Gelatinized Milk (i). ' * 

Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of pure gelatin or 
isinglass in a quarter of a pint of boiling water. Then 
stir it into a pint of hot milk, and add a little lemon 
peel with pepper and salt according to taste ; or else a 
small onion with pepper and salt. Place this in the 
oven, or near the fire, till it is reduced to one pint, 
then strain and serve. Sugar may be used instead of 
the vegetables and salt if preferred. 



36 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

39. — Gelatinized Milk (2). 

Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatin in a 
quarter of a pint of boiling water ; add it to a pint ot 
hot milk j then put in two or three drops of essence 
of lemon or almonds and sweeten to taste. 

40. — Gelatin or Isinglass JB lane-mange. 

Dissolve half an oimce of gelatin or isinglass in 
one pint of boiling milk, sweeten and flavour to taste 
with lemon, vanilla, or almond ; pour into a mould 
and allow it to cool. 

When milk disagrees with the invalid it can still be 
taken by many in some of the preceding forms. 
Sometimes, however, it is not tolerated by the stomach 
at all. The following combinations may then be 
resorted to with advantage. 

4 1 . — Artificial Milk ( i ). 

Take the white of one Qgg and beat it up with a 
half-pint of cold barley water, thin arrowroot or corn- 
flour, then stir in a wineglassful of cream and sweeten 
with a little loaf sugar. If required warm, heat it by 
joJaclng it in a jug in a saucepan and pour sufficient 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 37 

boiling water into the latter, stirring the mixture for a 
few minutes. 

42. — Artificial Milk (2). 

Take an ounce of suet, cut it up very finely and tie 
it loosely in a muslin bag. Boil it slowly for an hour 
in a pint of thin barley water with a quarter of an 
ounce of isinglass or gelatin and a little sugar, adding 
a little water occasionally as it boils away. Pound up 
twelve sweet almonds, pour the fluid gradually on 
them and mix well. Strain and serve. 

43. — Artificial Milk (3) . 

Take a pint of new milk, let -it stand twenty- 
four or thirty-six hours according to the weather; 
then skim off the cream. Now gradually add to the 
skimmed milk, while boiling, sufficient vinegar or sour 
milk to curdle it completely and then strain (see Nos. 
49 and 51. Beat up an egg with the cream previously 
removed, and stir in the whey by degrees when it has 
cooled considerably. 

For young infants, and in some other cases, the 
white of the egg alone may be mixed with the whey, 
but it must never be boiled or heated much abov^ 



38 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

blood heat after adding any part of the egg or it will 
curdle and spoil. 

44. — Panada, 

Take the crumb of two moderately thick slices of 
bread, grate or crumble it up and add rather more 
water than will cover it. Boil until the bread becomes 
pulpy, pour or strain oflf the water, and beat up well 
what remains ; sweeten and flavour. 

45. — Cream Panada. 

Grate up a teacupflil of stale bread crumbs, add 
boiling water to cover them, and, when soft, beat up 
thoroughly. Add water to make half a pint, boil, and 
when thickened, stir in a wineglassful of cream. 
Sweeten and flavour to taste. 

46. — Iceland Moss Soup, 

Treat the moss as in No. 36. Add half a pint of 
hot barley-water instead of milk, sweeten and flavour 
to taste. 

47. — Lentil Soup, 

Take one large tablespoonful of lentil flour, and three 
quarters of a pint of thin barley-water, sweetened and 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 39 

flavoured. Mix the lentil flour with a little of the 
barley-water, bpil tlie rest, and mix the two gradually ; 
boil again for ten minutes, stirring well. 

If eggs agree, one may be well beaten up and 
stirred in when the soup is sufficiently cool. 

WHEY. 
This is an excellent kind of drink for invalids. 
The casein of the milk is removed in the curd ; 
there is, therefore, no fear of its curdling in the 
stomach, and so causing pain or diarrhoea. It can 
therefore be taken by many with whom milk disagrees. 
The casein of the milk is held in solution by an alkali 
and is curdled and thrown down whenever the milk 
becomes, or is made acid. Whey can, therefore, be 
made by several methods. 

48. — Rennet Whey, 

Procure a piece of rennet (the stemach of the calf) 
from the butcher, place a small portion in a cup of hot 
water for four or five hours. Pour it into a quart of 
milk. Let it stand till the curd appears, then strain 
through a sieve. 

49. — Vinegar Whey, 
Heat the milk nearly to boiling ; then add, slowly, 
sufficient vinegar to turn it; finally, strain. 



40 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

Solution of cream of tartar, tartaric of citric acid, 
may be used in the same way. 

50. — Lemon or Orange Whey, 

The juice of an orange or lemon may be used as 
above, and a very agreeable and useful drink is thus 
made. It may be sweetened to taste. 

51. — Two-milk Whey. 

Boil a pint of fresh milk. Pour in a small teacup- 
ful of cold sour milk while it boils, and boil again. 
Then stand by the fire to let the curd separate, and 
strain. If the whey is not clear repeat the process 
with a little more sour milk, taking care not to add too 
much. A little carbonate of soda may be added to 
the strained whey if it tastes sour. 

52. — Cream Whey. 

Take a pint of new milk. Let it stand twenty-four 
or thirty-six hours, according to the weather; skim 
off the cream and set it aside. Boil the skimmed 
milk, and make whey by process Nos. 48, 49, or 51. 
Beat up the cream with the whey by degrees. 

N.B. — When milk disagrees cream whey may be 
^sed instead, in any of the preceding recipes. ' 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 4 1 

53. — Barley Water, 

Take two ounces of pearl barley. Wash it with a 
little cold water, and strain. Then pour on it a pint ■ 
of boiling water, and boil for a quarter of an hour ; 
strain again, and throw away the water. Now pour 
on the barley two quarts of boiling water and boil 
them down to one quart. Strain again, and it will be 
ready; it may be taken hot or cold. It may be 
sweetened if preferred, and any flavouring may 
be added. A piece of lemon peel may be boiled in 
the water, or essence of lemon added afterwards. 
If lemon juke be added, it forms a capital cooling 
drink; cream of tartar is also an excellent and 
refreshing addition. In case of a cold, a large 
teaspoonful of powdered nitre, or a small table- 
spoonful of the sweet spirits of nitre in a pint of 
sweetened barley water, with a flavour of lemon, taken 
during the night is an invaluable remedy. 

Barley water may be made a little thicker than this 
when intended as an important part of the invalid's 
diet. 

54. — Fanustaquay 0^ Toast and Water, 

Cut a thick slice of bread, and toast it to a rich brown 
colour without burning it. Put it into a jug with a 



42 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

thin slice of a lemon, and pour on to it a quart of 
boiling water. When cold, strain it 

55.— TEA. 

This is nearly always acceptable to invalids, and 
may be efnployed, when necessary, as a useful means 
of smuggling in nourishment For this piurpose use 
the farinaceous milk (No. 24), and sometimes put in 
a well beaten egg instead of milk, or in addition to it 
It is also often very useful and refreshing when taken 
cold, as a drink. The following will generally be 
preferred to simple cold tea; — . 

56. — Lemon Tea, 

Make tea in the ordinary way, but not very strong. 
When sufficiently drawn, pour it while as hot as 
possible into a jug, and for every half pint of tea put 
in one excessively thin slice of a small lemon, or half 
a slice of a large one. In ten minutes sweeten to 
taste, strain, and allow it to get cold. It may be 
taken hot if preferred. 

57._COLD WATER. 

This is such a simple thing to recommend that it 
may seem absurd to mention it Any one however. 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 43 

who has experienced the deliciousness of a really cool 
draught in fever will never ^ despise it The water 
should not be kept in the sick room, but brought in 
when required. Ice will of course cool water at any 
time. Where this cannot be had, a porous water jar 
will cool its contents considerably. As a substitute a 
flower pot may be stopped with a cork, filled with 
water (after being well rinsed) and covered with the 
saucer upside down, or with a cloth which is 
frequently wetted. 

58. — Lemon Drink (i). 

Take a lemon, and several lumps of white sugar ; 
rub the sugar all over the outside of the lemon. Cut 
the lemon, and squeeze out all the juice; put the 
remains of the lemon and the juice on a sieve, and 
pour on it a pint or ihore of boiling water. When 
cold, sweeten with the sugar according to taste. 

59. — Lemon Drink (2). 

Slice a lemon ; put it into a jug, and pour on it a pint 
or more of boiling water. When cold, sweeten to taste. 

Either of the above may be made to effervesce by 
the addition of a very little carbonate of soda. 



44 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

60. — Artificial Lemon Juice, 

Rub two ounces of citric or tartaric acid in a mortar 
with four drops of essence of lemons. Dissolve it in 
one and a half pints of boiling water. Keep corked. 
Dilute and sweeten when required for use. 

61. — Imperial Drink, 

Cream of tartar one ounce ; rub with it ten drops 
of essence of lemon ; two ounces of sugar ; put them 
in a jug, and pour on them a quart of boiling water. 
Allow it to stand and cool. Pour off the clear liquid. 

62. — Neutral Lemon Drink. 

Cut the rind off one lemon in thin slices. Place in 
a jug with one or two lumps of sugar, and pour on it 
a pint of boiling water. Strain when cold. 

63. — Apple Water. 

Slice some apples, add a little sugar and lemon peel ; 
pour on them boiling water. Strain when cold. 

ENEMATA. 

These are very useful where food cannot be taken 
JD the usual way, and life can be considerably pro- 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 45 

longed by their use. Much of the food thus given is, 
however, wasted, simply because nature cannot digest 
equally well at both ends of the alimentary canal. 
When, therefore, enemata are required, artificial 
digestion should be performed whenever possible. 
Delicate flavours being unappreciated, we need be at 
no pains to produce them, and, on the other hand, 
need not mind the appearance, or fear that the 
nauseous taste will be objected to. 

It .will be real economy to administer small quan- 
tities well digested. 

64. — Digested Meat Enema, 

The essence of meat (No. 2) should be given, with 
the addition of a wineglassful of simple isinglass or 
gelatin jelly to a quarter of. a pint of the essence of 
meg,t. The whole must be warmed by standing in a 
jar which is placed in a saucepan, and surrounded 
with a mixture half of boiling and half cold water. 
Ten grains of dry pepsine should be dissolved in a 
tablespoonful of warm water, and ten drops of muriatic 
acid or spirits of salts. This should then be stirred 
into the essence of meat in the jar, and allowed to 
remain two hours. It may then be warmed again by 



46 DIET FOR THE SICK. 

means of more water similarly mixed, and then 
administered in the usual way. Ten drops of laudanum 
may be added under medical direction. 

Fatty matters should not be given at the same time 
as meat, and starch should never be given at all For 
all starch is converted into a form of sugar before it is 
taken up into the blood by means of the saliva and 
the secretion of the pancreas (the sweetbread of 
animals). 

An ounce of sugar may, therefore, be added to the 
above enema with great advantage. Ordinary lump 
sugar may be used, but the best kind to employ is 
grape sugar. If this cannot be procured, it will in 
some cases be worth all the trouble of making it. 
This may thus be done. 

65. — To make Grape Sugar, 

Procure from a chemist one drachm of strong 
sulphuric acid diluted with twelve fluid ounces of 
water. Put this on the fire to boil in an enamelled 
saucepan or earthenware pipkin. While this is 
getting hot, mix a quarter of a pound of starch with 
sufficient lukewarm water to make it of the consistence 
of cream. When the acidulated water boils, add the 
starch gradually, stirring with a clean stick after each 



DIET FOR THE SICK. 47 

addition, and allowing it to boil up before more 
is added. When all has been mixed, boil for half an 
hour, and then add by degrees a teaspoonflil of whiting. 
Take it off the fire and allow the sediment to subside ; 
then pour off the nearly clear fluid. One wineglassful 
may be added to each enema. 

66. — £gg and Sugar Enema, 

Take the yolks of two eggs ; beat them up with a 
wineglassful of the cold solution of grape sugar 
(No. 65) and a wineglassful of hot water ; or dissolve 
an ounce of grape sugar in two wineglassfuls of hot 
water ; if it be impossible to get or make grape sugar 
use an ounce of lump sugar. 

67. — Fat and Sugar Enema, 

Take half an ounce of powdered gum Arabic ; rub 
it up gradually in a mortar with two tablespoonfuls of 
water and a pinch of carbonate of soda ; then take 
two tablespoonfuls of olive or cod liver oil, and rub 
them in a little at a time with the gum and water. 
Finally stir in a wineglassful of hot solution of grape 
sugar (No. 65), or an ounce of grape sugar or lump 
sugar dissolved. 

PARDON AND SON, PRINTBRSt VKTWK&O^t^B.'BL 'BSW « V^^\3n»'«^. 



