
m6 



I 



LIBPlARY OF CONGRESS.? 



^x^ — r 



p ' f 

I UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. | 



1776 THE 1876 

Centennial Cook Book 

AND 

GENERAL GUIDE. 

(ILLUSTRATED.) 



-EMBRAGINC- 
MODERN COOKERY, IN ALL ITS ARTS, 

FAMILY MEDICINES AND HOUSEHOLD REMEDIES, 

FARMING HINTS AND COMPLETE FARRIERY, 
EVENTS OF THE LAST CENTURY. 



— BY- 



^ ) 



, ^ 



( 



J-. E. 




PHILADELPHIA 






1876. 



x^' 






Entered according to Act of Congress, January, 1876, by J. B. MYERS, in the 
office of Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D. C. 







HE " Centennial Cook Book and General Guide " is placed 
before the public solely on its intrinsic merits. To com- 
pile and issue a work of this kind that would be perfect, 
has been my particular aim, and, I believe that I have 
succeeded. The space allotted to COOKERY alone em- 
braces nearly, if not quite, one thousand receipts, being the collec- 
tion of over twenty years ; and each receipt herein has been carefully 
analyzed and tested by me from time to time, and I can speak 
confidently of the correctness of each and every one of them. In 
these pages can be found some of themost elaborate and costly 
dishes to please the palate of the connoisseur; as also, some of 
the most economical ones to meet the wants of those whose in- 
comes will not permit them to expend immoderately their scant 
earnings in supplying their tables. I know that vast sums of 
money are wasted annually by families and servants in preparing 
dishes, which might be saved if a few hints could be placed before 
them, whereby this saving might be accomplished. In order, then, 
to assist my friends in this object, I have endeavored in the compi- 
lation of the within receipts, to use only those ingredients which 
are practically necessary, and in such quantities only as are 
indispensable, and if my instructions are followed, there will be 
a very great saving indeed. It may not be perceptible, unless one 
will take the trouble to compare their own mode of preparing 
dishes with the different modes laid down in this work. I speak 



IV PREFACE. 

from experience -when I say: "there is room for reform in cookery." 
If families will but follow the instructions embraced in the " Cen- 
tennial Cook Book" in the different modes of cooking, there will be 

a saving of at least one-third. It is worth the trial. 

The "Medical Department" of this work embraces valuable 
receipts for the cure of the different diseases that are common in 
families. They are carefully compiled and can be used by families 
with perfect safety. I have been aided in this department of my 
work principally by some of the best physicians and surgeons in 
this and other cities, and by the most approved works on medicine 
and surgery. A large number of the remedies contained herein, I 
have used in my own family for years, and I can speak confidently 
of their efficiency. 

As great care is essential in the treatment of children, I have 
devoted several pages to this important subject. The hints and 
remedies herein prescribed have been approved by the leading 
physicians of this city, and should be followed implicitly by 
mothers and those having the care of infants. It is a matter of 
such vital importance that I have given it especial mention in this 
work. In fact, the greatest care has been exercised in arranging 
this portion of the book, and it will be noticed that I have dis- 
carded entirely the use of medical terms, and given the simple 
name of each ingredient, so that any child may be able to call for 
the article named in the receipt. It will be well for families to give 
this portion of the work a careful perusal, not only because of the 
efficiency of the remedies set forth, but there may be times when it 
will be necessary to act quickly in many cases of sickness, and 
probably before a physician could be summoned, the disease may 
have attained great headway. 

The "Farming and Agricultural" department I have turned 
over to the publisher of this work, (an ex-farmer, with twenty years 



PREFACE. T 

experience). This I have done for the purpose of carrying out my 
promise of making my work complete in all its details. In thig 
department will be found some of the most valuable hints extant. 
As the planting and rearing of an orchard is a subject which 
interests the farmer, particular pains have been taken to give some 
minute directions in regard to the same ; and the hope is that far- 
mers, and those interested in this branch of agriculture, will give 
the remarks thereon a careful perusal and study. The Dairy, too, 
Is an important matter for consideration in this work. The manner 
of making Butter and Cheese is here handled with great care. The 
matter has been taken up from its foundation (procuring the milk) 
to the last and concluding process, (the packing and shipping) and 
each process, as it is reached, is carefully and minutely described, 
and if the instructions are followed as laid down, dairymen will 
have no cause to say that their Butter and Cheese did not turn out 
as they had expected. The cultivation of crops has also been given 
particular attention herein. The rearing and care of stock, with 
their diseases and remedies, is another feature of this department, 
and, in fact, nothing has been left undone to make it complete in 
every particular. I think, then, that this part of my book, like the 
preceding ones, can be placed before the public on its merits. 

In the "Miscellaneous" department will be found over one hun- 
dred of the best selected and most valuable receipts that could be 
found, pertaining to Art, Science, and Chemistry, and also several 
additional receipts of infinite value to housewives and farmers. I 
have made the selections with great care, and I would ask my friends 
and the public to read them carefully, because I believe they will 
find among them some of the very identical receipts that they have 
been looking for. 

The fourth and last part of this work is devoted entirely to 
"Events." embracing a history of Philadelphia from 1609 to the 



Vi . PREFACE. 

present time; with matters of interest in connection with "Our 
Centennial." This part is embellished with numerous fine engra- 
vings, intended to describe more minutely the progress of our city 
since the landing of Penn; and to give to each purchaser of this 
book a little souvenir of our nation's "Centennial Birthday;" some- 
thing that may be retained by future posterity as a memento of the 
grand celebration in this "Centennial Year, 1876." In this part 
will be found engravings of all the "old landma,rks" in Philadel-- 
phia — Independence Hall, in lYVS and 18*76; the oldest churches • 
the house in which the "Declaration of Independence was written; 
the house where the first American flag was made ; all the present 
public buildings, institutions, cemeteries, &c. ; scenes in Fairmount 
Park, concluding with engravings of all the Centennial Exposition 
Buildings. 

Having now fulfilled my task, I shall leave the -^york in the 
hands of the public, and they shall say, whether or not " The Cen- 
tennial Cook Book and General Guide, is what I have labored to 

make it — a success. 

ELLA E. MYERS. 





\READ-MAKING is an ancient . ^nW''^-' 

art indeed. The Assyrians, 

Egyptians, and Greeks, used 

to make bread, in which oil, 

with aniseed and other spices, 

was an element ; but this was 

unleavened. 

Somewhere about the beginning of the 

thirtieth Olympiad, the slave of an archon, at 
Athens, made leavened bread by accident. He had left some 
wheaten dough in an earthen pan, and forgotten it; some 
days afterwards, he lighted upon it again, and found it turn- 
ing sour. His first thought was to throw it away; but, his 
master coming up, he mixed this now acescent dough with 
some fresh dough, which he was working at. The bread thus 
produced, was found delicious by the archon and his friends, 
and the slave, being summoned, told the secret. It spread all 
over Athens ; and everybody wanting leavened bread at once 
certain persons set up as bread-makers, or bakers. In a short 
time bread-baking became quite an art, and "Athenian bread" 
was quoted all over Greece as the best bread, just as the honey 
of Hymettus was celebrated as the best honey. 

In our own times, bread has become an article of food of the 
first necessity; it constitutes of itself a complete life-sustainer, 
the gluten, starch, and sugar, which it contains, representing 



2 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

azotized and hydro-carbonated nutrients, and combining tho 
sustaining powers of the animal and vegetable kingdoms iu 
one product. 

American Wlieat Bread, 

(AUTHOR'S OWN RECEIPT.) 

Seven pounds of flour; two quarts of warm water; a large 
tablespoonful of salt ; half a gill of yeast. 

Put the flour into a deep pan, heap it round the sides, leav- 
ing a hollow in the centre ; put into it a quart of warm water, 
a large spoonful of salt, and half a gill of yeast ; have ready 
three pints more of warm water, and with as nauch as may be 
necessary, make the whole into a rather soft dough, kneading 
it well with both hands. When it is smooth and shining, strew 
a little flour on it, lay a thickly folded cloth over it', and set it 
in a warm place by the fire for four or five hours ; then knead 
it again for a quarter of an hour ; cover it over, and set it to 
rise again ; divide it into two or four loaves, and bake in a quick 
oven. It will take one hour to bake it if divided into loaves 
weighing two pounds each, and two hours if the loaves weigh 
four pounds each. This bread need only rise once, and if made 
of the best flour will be beautifully white and light. 

In cold weather bread should be mixed in a warm room, and 
not allowed to become cold whUe rising. 

Mye Bread. 

Wet up rye flour with lukewarm milk, (water will do to wet 
it with, but it will not make the bread so good.) Put in the 
same proportion of yeast as for wheat bread. For four or five 
loaves of bread, put in a couple of tea-spoonsful of salt. A 
couple of table-spoonsful of melted butter makes the crust more 
tender. It should not be kneaded as stiff as wheat bread, or it 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 3 

■will be hard when baked. When light,, take it out into pans, 
without moulding it up — let it remain in them about twenty 
minutes, before baking. 

Unleavened Bread. 

Mix unbolted wheat-meal (Graham flour), or three parts of 
wheat-meal and one of Indian-meal (coarse ground), with water 
sufficient to form a middling stiff dough. Some prefer hot water 
to "scald" the meal. Roll or mould the dough into a thin cake, 
not more than half or thi-ee-quarters of an inch in thickness, 
and bake immediately in a stove or before the fire. This bread- 
cake will be rather soft, but very sweet and perfectly wholesome. 
It may also be moulded into loaves of rather small size, and 
baked in the oven or in the old-fashioned baking kettles, or 
cooked under hot ashes, after the manner of roasting potatoes. 

This kind of bread may be made in the same way, of different 
proportions of rye and Indian, or of wheat, rye, and Indian. 

Indian Bread, 

Mix Indian meal with cold water, stir it into boiling water, 
let it boil half an hour ; stir in a little salt, take it from the fire, 
let it remain till lukewarm, then stir in yeast and Indian meal, 
to render it of the consistency of unbaked rye dough. When 
\ight, take it out into buttered pans, let it remain a few minutes, 
Ihen bake it two hours and a half. 

Graliam Bread, 

Take two quarts of Graham (never sift it) and one of flour, 
half a cup of yeast, one scant spoonful of salt, half a cup of 
brown sugar, and warm water enough to make a stiff" batter, 
and let it rise. If you rise it over night, be sure to set in a 
cool place, as it sours much quicker than fine flour. It will rise 



4 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

in a warm place in four hours. When risen, mix with it a tea- 
spoonful of salcratus dissolved in wann water, and flour enough 
to shape it into loaves ; put it in the pans, and let it rise thirty- 
five minutes, and bake dowly an hour and a quarter. Make 
the loaves very small. Use molasses instead of sugar if the 
bread is eaten for constipation. 

Currant JBread, 

Take three pounds of flour ; one pound of raisins ; two 
pounds of currants ; one pint and a half of new milk ; and 
one gill of yeast. Warm the mUk, and mix it with the flour 
and yeast ; cover with a cloth, and set it by the fire. When 
risen sufiiciently, add the fruits and mold it ; then put it into 
a baking tin or deep dish rubbed with sweet-oil or dusted with 
flour; after it has risen for half an hour longer, 'bake in a 
moderately hot oven. 

Apple Bread, 

Weigh one pound of fresh, juicy apples ; peel, core, and 
stew them into a pulp, being careful to use a porcelain kettle 
or a stone jar, placed in a kettle of boiling water ; mix the 
pulp with two pounds of the best flour ; put in the same 
quantity of yeast you would use for common bread, and as 
much water as will make it a fine, smooth dough ; put it into 
a pan and place it in a warm place to rise, and let it remain 
for twelve hours, at least. Form it into rather long shaped 
loaves, and bake in a quick oven. 

Potato Bread, 

Boil the potatoes very soft, then peel and mash them fine. 
Put in salt, and very little butter — then rub them with the 
flour — wet the flour with lukewarm water — then work in the 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 5 

yeast, and flour till stiff to mold up. It will rise quicker 
than common wheat bread, and should be baked as soon as 
risen, as it turns sour very soon. The potatoes that the bread 
is made of should be mealy, and mixed with the flour in pro- 
portion of one-third of potatoes to two-thirds of floui'. 

Hoston Srown Hread, 

Take one quart of rye flour ; two quarts of coarse Indian 
meal ; one pint of wheat meal — all of which must be very 
fi'esh ; half a teacupful of molasses or brown sugar ; one gill 
of potato-yeast. Mingle the ingredients into as stiff a dough 
as can be stirred with a spoon, using warm water for wetting. 
Let it rise several hours, or over night ; then put it in a large 
deep pan, and bake five or six hours. 

FrencJi Sread, 

To two quarts of flour put a pint of milk, a little salt, two 
ounces of melted butter, and one ounce of German yeast; 
whisk the fluids together, and add two beat eggs ; mix the 
flour with it, handling it as little as possible ; let the dough 
rise, and mold the bread into rolls ; bake on tins, in a quick 
oven. 

Common Sense Biscuit, 

(AUTHOR'S OWN RECEIPT.) 

Take as much flour as will do, and use judgment with 
regard to the amount of lard. Some folks like more, some 
less. They are neither so light nor good when too greasy. 
Put salt to the taste, and rub it all together, then add cold 
water slowly, and as little as will possibly answer. Make the 
dough so very stiff that you can neither knead nor beat it with 
any comfort until it is set away awhile — some twenty or thirty 



6 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

minutes, when it softens a little. Then heat it until it is very 
light, make out the biscuits and bake in a quick oven, which 
had better be too hot tlian loo cold. Cover up the dough 
■when set by to soften. They bake in fifteen or twenty 
minutes, if not too hot, and when done they feel very light. 

American Biscuits, 

TIME, ABOUT TWENTY MINUTES. 

Mix a pound of flour with a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Make half a pint of new milk warm, and sweeten with a 
quarter of a pound of white sugar ; pour it gradually into the 
butter paste. Dissolve the salt of tartar in half a teacupful of 
cold water, and add to the mixture, working the paste to a 
good consistency ; roll it out, and cut into small biscuits. Bake 
in a quick oven directly they are made. 

English Hiscuits, 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR TO BAKE. 

Beat the yolks of twelve eggs for half an hour, then add a 
pound and a half of sifted white sugar, and whisk it until you 
see it rise in bubbles ; then whisk the whites of the eggs to a 
strong froth, and beat them well with the sugar and yolks ; 
stir in fourteen ounces of flour, and the peel of two lemons 
grated. Bake in tin molds well buttered, in a cjuick oven ; 
but before you put the biscuits in, sift pounded sugar over 
them. 

French Biscuits. 

. Three eggs; their weight in flour, and powdered sugar; 
half an ounce of candied lemon peel. 

Whisk the whites of three eggs until they are very stiff, 
then whip in the candied lemon peel cut thin and fine, add by 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 7 

degrees tlie flour, and sugar pounded, and then whip all to- 
gether, with the yolks of the eggs, until it is thoroughly 
blended ; shape the biscuit on fine white paper with a spoon, 
and sift white sugar over them. Bake them in a moderate 
oven, giving them a light color on the top ; then, with a fine 
knife, cut them from the paper, and put them in tin boxes 
to dry. 

German Biscuits, 

TIME, SIX OR EIGHT MINUTES. 

Half a pound of dried flour ; five ounces of butter ; seven 
ounces of sugar ; two eggs ; two dessertspoonsful of cream ; 
peel of a small lemon grated. 

Beat five ounces of butter to a cream, and mix in the loaf 
sugar pounded the grated lemon peel, half a pound of dried 
flour, and the cream and well-beaten eggs, to form a nice light 
dough. Mix all well before kneading it, roll it in thin, long, 
narrow strips, and bake on a tin in a quick oven. 

WJieat 3Ieal Fruit Siscuits. 

Mix G-raham flour with just enough of scalded figs — pre- 
viously washed — to make an adherent dough by much knead- 
ing ; roll or cut into biscuits half an inch thick, and two or 
three inches square ; bake in a quick oven. 

Soda Biscuits. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, 
one-quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two eggs, one small 
teaspoonfiil of carbonate of soda. 

Sour Milk Biscuits, 

Take two quarts of sour mUk or butter-milk, and three tea- 
spoonsfiil of bicarbonate of soda, dissolved in hot water. Mix 



8 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

the milk with sufficient flour (fine or coarse as preferred), to 
make a dough nearly stiff enough to roll ; then add the soda 
and as much more flour as necessary ; mould and bake 
quickly. 

Ot^ange JBiscuits, 

TIME, FIVE OR .SIX MIXUTES, 

Eight eggs ; two Seville oranges ; quarter of a pound of 
flour ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; and 
some candied orange peel. 

Beat half a pound of fresh butter until it is a cream, and 
stir into it the same weight of pounded white sugar previously 
rubbed on the rinds of two or three Seville oranges. Add the 
candied orange peel cut into thin slices, then mix in the flour, 
and stir in gradually the yolka of eight eggs beaten well ; whisk 
the whites until they will bear an egg on them, and mix them 
with the other ingredients. Fill some buttered moulds, pour 
in the mixture, sift some powdered sugar over, and bake them 
in a slow oven. 

Ginger Biscuits, 

TIME, SEVENTEEN OR EIGHTEEN MINUTES. 

Eight ounces of flour ; four ounces of butter ; four ounces 
of loaf sugar ; yolks of three eggs ; and some ground ginger. 

Beat the butter to a cream before the fire ; add the flour by 
degrees, then the sugar pounded and sifted, and a flavoring to 
taste of ground ginger, and mix the whole with the yolks of 
three well-beaten eggs. When thoroughly mixed, drop the 
biscuit mixture on buttered paper, a sufficient distance from 
each other to allow the biscuits to spread, and bake them a 
light color, in a rather slow oven. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 3 

Ahnond Biscuits, 

TIME, FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

Four eggs ; five ounces of beef-suet ; half an ounce of 
almonds ; six ounces of loaf sugar ; two ounces and a half of 
flour ; lemon to taste. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a froth, chop the suet and 
almonds separately very fine, and beat well together. Mix 
with the yolks of the eggs the loaf sugar finely sifted ; beat 
well, and pour into the almond mixture; shake in the flour, 
and add the lemon. Bake in small tins ih a quick oven. 

Crraham Soda Biscuits, 

One quart of Graham flour ; one teaspoonful of soda, dis- 
solved in two-thirds of a teacupfiil of molasses ; mix with milk 
and water. 

Breakfast Moll. 

Sixteen cups of flour, one half a cup of white sugar, one 
cup of butter, one of yeast, the whites of four eggs beaten to 
stiff" froth, and four cups of boiled milk. Melt the butter, 
have the milk blood-warm, and mix the bread ; set in a warm 
place, and rise over night ; in the morning shape into long 
rolls, rise one hour, and bake half an hour. 



Cranberry Bolls, 

Stew a quart of cranberries in sufficient water to keep them 
from burning. Make it very sweet ; strain and cool. Make 
a paste, and when the cranberry is cold, spread it on the paste 
about an inch thick, roll it, tie it close in a flannel cloth, boil 
two hours, and serve with a sweet sauce. 



10 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



Economical Molls, 



To every pound of flour allow one ounce of butter, one 
quarter of a pint of milk, one large teaspoonful of yeast, a 
little salt. 

English Cheshire Molls. 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR TO BAKE. 

Two pounds of dried flour, two ounces of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, a quarter of a pound of butter, two eggs, two tablespooas- 
ful of yeast, one pint of mUk. 

Boston Buttermilk Molls. 

Take two cofiee cups of buttei-milk, and stir into it one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus dissolved in a little hot water, and stir 
into this about five cups of flour ; beat this up lightly, and 
bake in French roll pans, the same as cream of tartar rolls. 
These are very nice. This will make two roll pans fidl. 

Ch^aham Molls. 

Take two coifee cups of sour milk, and stir into it one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, one of salt, half a cup of sugar, two eggs, 
one cup of flour, and Graham enough to make a stiff batter. 
Bake the same as cream of tartar rolls, allowing ten minutes 
longer. 

French Molls, 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR. 

One pound of flour ; one egg ; one ounce cf butter ; ono 
spoonful of yeast ; a little salt, and some milk. 

"Well beat the butter into the flour, adding a little salt ; beat 
an egg, and stir it into the flour with the yeast, and a sufficient 
quantity of mUk to make the dough rather stiff. Beat it well 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 11 

"without kneading it ; set it to rise, and bake it on tins. This 
quantity will make about six rolls, and when done rasp them 
before serving. EoUs (or any sort of bread) may be made 
new by dipping. 

German Sausage Molls. 

Procure a quartern of dough from the baker's, knead this 
with four ounces of butter, dripping, or chopped suet ; divide 
it into twelve equal parts, and use each piece* of paste to enfold 
a beef sausage in it ; place these rolls in a baking-tin, and bake 
them in the oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. 

Caraivay JBuns. 

TIME TO BAKE, TWENTY MINUTES. 

Half an ounce of cai-away seeds ; half a pound of currants ; 
a little nutmeg ; a little lemon peel ; two eggs ; one quart of 
new milk ; one ounce of butter ; two pounds of flour ; a quar- 
ter of a pound of sifted sugar ; one or two spoonsful of yeast. 

Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour the milk 
in, with one or two spoonsful of yeast. Stir the dough, cover 
it over, and let it stand before the fire to rise for one hour. 
Then mix the caraway seeds, lemon peel, and nutmeg with one 
half, and the currants with the other, and cover all up together 
till the oven is ready. Make up the buns to a proper size, 
and put them on a tin baking sheet buttered. Beat up an 
egg, and brush them over with it. Cover them over again, 
and put them before the fire for another half an hour. Then 
bake them. Do not make them too large. 

Tea Buns, 

Make a hole in the middle of a pound of flour, in a pan, 
put in a dessertspoonful of yeast, and pour upon it half a tea- 



12 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

cupful of milk warmed as for buns ; mix it up with about one- 
third of the flour, leaving the rest round the sides of the pan, 
and put it in a warm place to rise. When it has well risen, 
put in half a pound of butter, (not melted,) ten yolks of eggs, 
and two whites, and half a tcaspoonful of salt ; mix all well 
together with your hand. Put it into buttered teacups filling 
them half full ; set them to rise, till nearly full ; and bake 
them in a hot oven. 

Centennial Suns, 

Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, a little 
salt, four ounces of sugar, a dessertspoonful of caraways, and 
a teaspoonful of ginger ; put some warm milk or cream to four 
tablespoonsful of yeast ; mix all together into a paste, but not 
too stiff; cover it over, and set it before the fire an hour to 
rise, then make it into buns, put them on a tin, set them be- 
fore the fire for a quarter of an hour, cover over with flannel, 
then brush them with very warm milk, and bake them of a 
nic"e brown in a moderate oven. 

Citron Suns, 

Take of carbonate of soda and muriatic acid three drachms 
each ; flour one pound ; butter and loaf sugar a quarter of a 
pound each ; one egg ; candied green citron peel cut into dice, 
six ounces ; mix all thoroughly together with enough milk to 
moisten with, and bake it in the shape of luncheon buns ; the 
tops being glazed with white of egg, arrange some nice pieces 
of green citron peel upon them. 

Xetv York Musks, 

Beat up seven eggs, mix them with half a pint of warm 
new milk, in which a quarter of a pound of butter has been 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 13 

melted, add a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of 
sugar ; put tliem gradually into as much flour as will make a 
light paste neax-ly as thin as batter ; let it rise before the fire 
half an hour, add more flour to make it a little stifier, work it 
well, and divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six 
inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, put 
them into the oven to brown a little. These cakes, when first 
baked, are very good buttered for tea ; if they are made with 
caraway seeds, they eat very nice cold. 

Italian MiisTcs, 

A stale Savoy or lemon-cake may be converted into a very 
good rusk in the following manner. Cut the cake into slices, 
divide each slice in two ; put them on a baking-sheet, in a slow 
oven, and when they are of a nice brown and quite hard, they 
are done. They should be kept in a closed tin canister in a 
dry place, to preserve their crispness. 

3£iijffins, 

One quart of milk, one cup of yeast, nine cups of flour, 
butter the size of a walnut, and four eggs. Make a batter 
with the milk, butter, yeast, and flour; beat the eggs and stir 
in ; set in a warm place, and let it rise four hours, and then 
bake in buttered muffin rings, or fry on the griddle in rings. 

Corn Meal Muffins. 

Take one quart of coarse ground and sifted Indian meal, two 
spoonsful of sweet cream, one quart of milk, one spoonful of 
molasses, and half a teacupful of hop or potato-yeast. Make 
into a thin dough ; let it rise four or five hours ; bake one hour 
in muffin rings, or in shallow pans. 



14 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Wlieat meal will make excellent muffins managed in the 
same way. 

Yankee Muffins. 

One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, five cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, two of cream of tartar, two eggs, and 
butter the size of an egg. Beat the butter and sugar together, 
and then add the eggs well beaten ; with this mix the milk, 
and then beat in the flour in which the saleratus and cream of 
tartar have been mixed. Bake in buttered muffin rings in a 
quick oven. 

Toast Muffins. 

Pull open the sides of the muffin exactly in the centre, 
about half an inch in ; put the toasting-fork in it and toast it 
carefully. When it is done, and it should only be lightly 
toasted, pull it apart, lay a little butter on each side, and close 
the muffin. Put it on a hot plate and cut it in four. If more 
than one are required, lay them on the first done, but do not 
send in a great pile of muffins, as they are better served liot. 
A hot- water plate with a cover — a regular muffin plate — should 
be used, and two at the most only be sent in at a time. 

*'M\j Own" 3Iuffins. 

One quart of milk, five eggs, one tablespoonful of good 
yeast, if home-made three or four ; a lump of butter the size of 
a walnut, and sufficient flour to form a stiff batter. Set it in 
a warm place to rise, and when light bake in muffin-rings. 

Suclcwheat Cakes, 

Put a large spoonful of yeast and a little salt into a quart 
of buckwheat meal ; make it into a batter with cold water ; 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 15 

let it rise well, and bake it on a griddle — it turns sour very 
quickly if it be allowed to stand any time after it lias risen. 

Buckwheat Shortcake. 

Take three or four cups of nice sour milk ; one teaspoonful 
of soda paleratus dissolved in the milk ; if the milk is very 
sour, you must use soda in proportion, with a little salt ; mix 
up a dough with buckwheat flour, thicker than you would mix 
for griddle cakes, say quite stiff; put into a buttered tin and 
bake immediately, about thirty minutes. 

Bucktvheat Griddle Cakes, 

Take five wooden spoonsful of buckwheat, three wooden 
spoonsful of Indian meal, and one of wheat flour, with a pinch 
of salt ; mix into this not quite a penny's worth of yeast, with 
just sufiicient luke-warm water to make it thin enough for use. 
Beat thoroughly, and leave the spoon in the pot while it rises. 
When ready to bake, take up the spoonful, but do not stir the 
batter. 

Johnny Cakes, 

One cup of flour, three cups of meal, one cup of molasses, 
two cups of sweet milk, one of sour milk, one teaspoonful of 
soda, and one of salt. Bake one hour in a sponge cake tin. 

Flannel Cakes, 

Put a tablespoonful of butter into a quart of milk, and warm 
them together till the butter has melted ; then stir it well, and 
set it away to cool. Beat five eggs as light as possible, and 
set them into the milk in turn with half a pound of flour ; add 
a small teaspoonful of salt, and a large tablespoonful and a half 



16 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

of the best frcsli yeast. Set tlie pan of batter near the fire to 
rise ; and if the j'cast is good, it will be liglit in three hours. 
Then bake it on a griddle in the man ler of buckwheat cakes. 

Corn Dodgers, 

Take one pint of Southern corn meal, and turn over it one 
pint of boiling water, add a little salt, and one egg well beaten 
up and stirred into the batter v.'hen nearly cold. Butter some 
sheets of tin, and drop. your cakes by the tablespoonful all over 
ih.Q pan. Bake for twenty-five minutes in a hot oven. 

Greeti Corn Cake, 

Mix a pint of grated green corn with three tablespoonsful of 
milk, a teacup of flour, half a teacup of melted butter, one egg, 
a teaspoonful of salt, and half a teaspoonful of pepper. Drop 
this mixture into hot butter by the spoonful ; let the cakes 
fry eight or ten minutes. These cakes are nice served up with 
meat for dinner. 

Indian Corn Cake, 

Stir into a quart of sour or butter-milk a couple of tea- 
spoonsful of saleratus, a little salt, and sifted Indian meal to 
render it a thick batter — a little cream improves the cake — 
bake it in deep cake pans about an hour. When sour milk 
cannot be procured, boil sweet milk, and turn it on the Indian 
meal — when cool, put in three beaten eggs to a quart of the 
meal — add salt to the taste. 

To Make Mush, 

Put a lump of butter the size of an egg into a quart of 
water, make it sufficiently thick with corn meal and a little 
salt ; it must be mixed perfectly smooth — stir it constantly till 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. ' 17 

done enough. This may be eaten hot with milk, which makes 
a very palatable dish. 

Fried 3Iush, 

Cut your mush into slices an inch thick, and fry brown in 
pork fat. Serve slices of fried pork with it. You can cook 
enough at one time for several breakfasts. If you do not wish 
to fry the mush, do not use the flour, and do not make quite 
so stiff. 

Pancakes and Fritters, 

Pancakes should be eaten hot. They should be light enough 
to toss over in the pan. Snoio will serve instead of eggs for 
pancakes. It should be taken when just fallen, and quite 
clean. Two tablespoonsful of snow will supply the place of 
one egg. Time to fry a pancake, five minutes. 

Common Pancakes, 

Three eggs, a pound of flour, and a pint of milk ; put the 
milk to the flour by degrees ; a little salt and grated ginger ; 
fry them in lard, grate sugar over them. 

Mice Pancakes, 

Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly. When cold mix with it 
a pint of cream, two eggs, a little salt and nutmeg. Stir in 
four ounces of butter, just wanned, and add as much flour as 
will make batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard as pos- 
sible, 

London Pancakes, 

The yolks of twelve eggs, four whites, beat them well ; add 
one quart of milk, six spoonsful of flour, two of brandy, one 



18 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

nutmeg, half a pound of melted butter ; a little salt ; for the 
first pancake rub the pan witli a piece of cold butter; fry 
tliem without anything else in the pan ; they must be very 
thin, clap hot one upon another for about a dozen, and cut 
through when eaten. 

French Fancalces with Preserves, 

TIME, TWENTY MINUTES. 

Three-quarters of a pint of good cream ; five eggs ; two des- 
sertspoonsful of flour ; two of pounded sugar ; apricot or rasp- 
berry jam. 

Whip three-quarters of a pint of cream to a froth, and strain 
it. Whisk the yolks and whites of five eggs separately, and 
stir them into the flour and sifted white sugar. Mix gradually 
with the frothed cream, and pour it into shallow 'tins ; put 
them into a moderate oven for about twenty minutes ; and 
when done, place one on the other with a layer of raspberry 
or apricot jam between them. 

The peel of half a lemon grated is an improvement. 

Oyster Fritters — American Meceipt. 

TIME, FIVE OR SIX MINUTES. 

Open a quart of oysters, strain the liquor into a basin, and 
add to it a half a pint of milk, and two well-beaten eggs ; stir 
in by degrees flour enough to make a smooth but rather thin 
batter ; when perfectly free from lumps put the oysters into it. 
Have some beef dripping or butter made hot in a very clean 
frying-pan, and seascfn with a little salt, and when it is boiling 
drop in the batter with a large spoon, putting one or more 
oysters in each spoonful. Hold the pan over a gentle fire un- 
til one side of the batter is a delicate brown, turn each fritter 
separately, and when both sides ai-e done place them on a hot 
dish and serve. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 19 

Potato Fritters. 

TIME, TEN MINUTES. 

Two large or three small potatoes ; four yolks, tlaree whites 
of eggs ; one tablespoonful of cream ; a little nutmeg ; a little 
lemon juice ; and half a wineglass of raisin wine. 

Boil and scrape very fine two large or three small mealy 
potatoes ; well beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of 
three, and add them to the potato with a sj)6onful of cream, 
the raisin wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon juice. Beat this 
well together for rather more than half an hour. Drop a 
spoonful at a time of the batter into a pan of boiling fat, and 
fry the fritters a light color, drain them, and serve on a nap- 
kin. A separate sauce may be served with these fritters made 
of a spoonful of loaf sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a 
glass of sherry. 

JPlain Fritters, 

Beat to a froth two eggs, and stir into this half a pint of 
milk, one teaspoonful of salt, two cups of flour ; beat this 
lightly, and drop by teaspoonsful into boiling lard, and fry a 
light brown. 

Apple Fritters. 

Make the batter as for plain fritters. Pare and core nice 
tart apples ; cut them in thin slices, dip them in the batter, 
and fry brown. Peaches, Oranges, Pineapples, and any kind 
of fruit may be used with this same batter. 

American Waffles. 

Mix flour and cold milk together, to make a thick batter. 
To a quart of the flour put six beaten eggs, a tablespoonful 
of melted butter, and a teaspoonful of salt. Some cooks add a 
quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a nutmeg. Bake them 
immediately. 



20 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Plain Waffles, 

Take one quart of milk ; five eggs ; one and a quarter pounds 
of flour ; half a pound of butter; one spoonful of yeast. When 
baked, sift sugar and powdered cassia on them. 

Rice Waffles. 

Take a teacup and a half of boiled rice — warm it with a 
pint of milk, mix it smooth, then take it from the fire, stir in 
a pint of cold milk, and a teaspoonful of salt. Beat four eggs, 
arid stir them in, together with sufiicient flour to make a thick 
batter. 

Huttered Toast. 

Beat to a froth one cup of butter and three tablespoonsful of 
flour ; pour over this one pint and a half of hoiling Water ; set 
this over a kettle of boiling water for ten minutes. Cut bread 
in slices half an inch thick: toast brown and dip into this. 
Serve very hot. 

French 3IilJc Toast. 

Put one quart of milk in a tin pail or basin and set into a 
kettle of boiling water. When it comes to a boil stir in two 
spoonsful of flour, mixed with half a cup of milk, one spoonful 
of butter, and salt to taste ; let this boil ten minutes, and then 
put in the bread, which must be toasted brown. Oook five 
minutes longer and serve. 

Toast Sandwiches, 

Thin cold toast, thin slices of bread and butter, pepper and 
salt to taste. 

Place a very thin piece of cold toast between two slices of 
thin bread and butter in the form of a sandwich, adding a sea- 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 21 

soning of pepper and salt. This sandwich may be varied by 
adding a little pulled meat, or very fine slices of cold meat, to 
the toast, and in any of these forms will be found very tempt- 
ing to the appetite of an invalid. 

Egg Toast, 

TIME, FIVE MINUTES. 

Four ounces of clarified butter ; four eggs well beaten ; one 
tablespoonful of anchovy paste ; one round of toast. 

Put the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two with four 
ounces of clarified butter ; beat them well together, then stir it 
over the fire in the same direction till mixed. Make a round 
of thin delicate toast, spread anchovy paste over it, then put 
on the mixture with a fork. Cut the toast into pieces and 
serve very hot. 

Sam Toast, 

TIME, TWO MINUTES, 

Slices of toasted bread ; two eggs ; one ounce of butter ; 
some cold ham or tongue, grated. 

Cut some thin slices from a stale loaf, toast them as for 
breakfast, and then cut them into square pieces. Put the 
yolks and whites of two beaten eggs into a stewpan with an 
ounce of butter ; stir them two minutes over the fire ; spread 
them over the toast, and lay over them a suflicient quantity of 
cold ham or tongue, grated or minced, to cover the eggs : serve 
it up very hot. 



22 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



GiKl-MAKHi. 




S in this branch of cookery everything de- 
pends upon the degree of care you take in 
the preparation of the ingredients employed, 
it entirely rests with yourself whether a 
cake prove a success or a failure. The 
following hints will be of benefit if properly 
observed : 

Eggs should always be broken into a cup, 
the whites and yolks separated, and they 
should always be strained. Breaking the eggs thus, the bad 
ones may be easily rejected without spoiling the others, and so 
cause no waste. As eggs are used instead of yeast, they should 
be very thoroughly whisked ; they are generally sufficiently 
beaten when thick enough to carry the drop that falls from 
the whisk. 

" Beat with a knife 
Will cause sorrow and strife ; 
Beat with a spoon | 

Will make heavy soon ; 
Beat with a fork 
Will make light as a cork." 

Loaf Sugar should be well pounded, and then sifted through 
a fine sieve. 

Currants should be nicely washed, picked, dried in a cloth, 
and then carefully examined, that no pieces of grit or stone 
may be left amongst them. They should then be laid on a 



A.ND GENERAL GUIDE. 23 

dish before the fire, tp become thoroughly dry ; as, if added 
damp to the other ingredients, cakes will be liable to be 
heavy. 

Good butter should always be used in the manufacture of 
cakes : and if beaten to a cream, it saves much time and labor 
to warm, but not melt it before baking. 

Less butter and eggs are required for cakes when yeast is 
mixed with the other ingredients. 

The following receipts, the author of this work flatters her- 
self, are some of the finest that can be found in any work on 
cookery in the country. They have all been practically used 
by her, and not one of them but she can vouch for as being 
perfect in the composition of their ingredients. 

Pound Plum Cake, 

To a pound each of butter, sugar, flour, and eggs mixed 
together in the usual way, add one pound of grocers' currants, 
previously washed, then thoroughly dried, and afterwards 
plumped in French brandy. 

Pound Fruit Cake, 

Add one pound of candied citron-peel to the ingredients 
constituting an ordinary pound cake ; do not slice the peel too 
thin, and only put it with the other things just before the cake 
is put into the oven. Sift sugar over the top* of. the cake to 
glaze it. 

A Plain Pound Cake. 

Beat one pound of butter in an earthen pan until it is like 
a fine thick cream, then beat in nine whole eggs till quite light. 
Put in a glass of brandy, a little lemon-peel, shred fine, then 
work in a pound and a quarter of flour ; put it into the hoop 



24 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

or pan, and bake it for an liour. A pound plum cake is made 
tlie same, with putting one jwund and a half of clean washed 
currants, and half a pound of candied lemon-peel. 

Cinnamon Cake, 

Take half a pound of dried flour, half a pound of fresh but- 
ter, half a pound of sifted sugar, the whites of eight eggs beaten 
to a snow froth, and sufiicient pounded and sifted cinnamon to 
flavor the cake rather strongly, and to give it a pinkish color ; 
mis all well together very lightly, put it into a buttered mold, 
and bake in rather a quick oven about half an hour. 

Cocoa-Nut Cakes. 

Grate the nut (scraping off the rind) very fine, and add half 
its weight in finely pounded white sugar ; mix them well to- 
gether with white of egg, and drop on wafer paper in small 
rough knobs about the size of a walnut, and bake in a slack 
oven. Excellent for dessert. 

Velvet Cakes, 

'Make a batter of one quart of flour, three eggs, a quart of 
milk, and a gill of yeast ; when well risen, stir in a large spoon- 
ful of melted butter, and bake them in mufiin hoops. 

Almond Cake, 

Take half a pound of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds 
blanched and well pounded, half a pound of finely sifted loaf 
sugar, nine eggs, the whites of four ; the eggs and sugar are to 
be well whisked together very fast for half an hour ; then put 
in the pounded almonds, and continue beating the whole half 
an hour longer, when put into a tin mold lined with buttered 
paper, and bake an hour in a brisk oven. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 25 

Almond Garlands, 

Blanch and bruise half a pound of sweet almonds, mix them 
with half a pound of sugar and the white^of four eggs ; place 
this in thick rings on wafers, and bake them in a slow oven. 

Queen Cakes* 

Mix a pound of flour, the same of sifted sugar, and washed 
currants ; beat up a pound of fresh butter well, then mix with 
it eight eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and put 
in the other ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; 
butter tins, fill them only half with the batter, sift a httle 
sugar over them, and bake them. 

Strawberry Cake, 

Mix a quart of flour with a teaspoonfiil of salt, four beaten 
eggs, and a teacup of thick cream, or melted butter. Add 
sufficient milk to enable you to roll it out — roll it out thin, line 
a shallow cake pan with part of it, then put in a thick layer of 
nice ripe strawberries, strew on sufficient white sugar to sweeten 
the strawberries, cover them with a thin layer of the crust, 
then add another layer of strawberries and sugar — cover the 
whole with another layer of crust, and bake it in a quick oven 
about twenty-five minutes. 

Good Sponge Cake, 

Beat together the yolks of ten eggs, with a pound of pow- 
dered white sugar — beat to a stiff" froth the whites of the eggs, 
and stir them into the yolks and sugar. Beat the whole ten 
or fifteen minutes, then stir in gradually three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted flour. Flavor it with a nutmeg, or the grated 
rind of a lemon. Bake it as soon as the flour and spices are 
well mixed in. 



26 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Washington Cahe. 

Stir together, till (p\ie wliite, a pound of sugar, three-^^^-ar- 
ters of a pound of butter, then add four beaten eggs. Stir in 
gradually a pound and a half of flour. Dissolve a teaspoonful 
of saleratus in a teacup of milk, strain and mix it with a glass 
of wine, then stir it into the cake, together with a teaspoonful 
of rosewater, and half a nutmeg. Just before it is baked, add 
a pound of seeded raisins. 

* 
Webster Cakes, 

TIME, A QUAETEB OF AN HOUR, TO BAKE. 

Mix a pound and a half of flour with a pound of whito 
sugar sifted, rub into it a pound of butter, add ten well-beaten 
eggs, two spoonsful of wine or brandy, and half a pound of 
currants washed and dried. Beat the mixture until it is light 
and creamy. Put it half an inch deep in square tin pans lined 
with buttered paper, and bake it in a quick oven ; or it may be 
baked in one tin, and iced over. 

Small Venetian Calces. 

Half a pound of flour ; five ounces of sweet almonds ; two 
ounces of bitter almonds ; yolks of two eggs ; peel of one lemon ; 
six ounces of butter ; a quarter of a pound of sugar ; a little 
orange-flower water ; two ounces of white sugar-candy. 

Blanch and pound the almonds with a little orange-flower 
water to a smooth paste. Mix it with the flour and the butter 
broken into small pieces. Bub the sugar on the peel of the 
lemon to extract the flavor ; then pound it fine, and mix it with 
the flour and almonds. Bind the whole into a paste with the 
beaten yolks of the eggs, roll it into small balls, and press each 
with your hand to form a round cake about an inch thick. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 27 

Brush tliem over with egg, and strew tliickly over them coarsely 
pounded white sugar-candy. Bake them in a slow oven. 

Vienna Cake. 

Take a large round sponge cake and cut it very carefully 
into thin slices ; spread each with a layer of strawberry, rasp- 
berry, and apricot jam, and replace them in their original form; 
pound and sift five ounces of sugar, and whisk it with the 
whites of three or four eggs until it will bear the weight of a 
whole one ; spread this over the cake ; sift sugar over the 
whole, and put it in a cool oven to harden the icing. 

Zjemoti Cakes. 

Take one egg, a little flour, a small piece of butter, a little 
rose-water, the rind of a lemon grated off with lumps of sugar, 
till the paste is sweet enough ; then mix all well together, and 
roll out as thin as possible on a marble slab ; cut into round 
shapes with a tin cutter, and bake on a tin sheet in a quick 
oven. Serve them for dessert. 

Apricot Cakes. 

Scald and peel a pound of fine ripe apricots, take out the 
stones, and beat them in a mortar to a pulp. Boil half a pound 
of double- refined sugar with a spoonful of water, skim it well, 
then put in the apricot pulp, and simmer it over a slow fire for 
a quarter of an hour, stirring gently all the time. Then put 
it into shallow flat glasses, and when cold turn the cakes out 
on glass plates, put them in a cool oven, and turn them once a 
da}" till they are dry. 

Cakes a la Polonaise. 

Take some good puff paste, roll it a quarter of an inch thick, 
and cut it in pieces four or five inches square, gather up the 



28 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

four comers of each, have ready some round molds, dip them 
in warai water, and put them inside the cakes ; then put them 
in a quick oven. When they are three parts done, take them 
out, and brush them over with the white of a beaten egg, 
sprinkle powdered sugar over, and finish baking. When done 
take out the molds ; whip the white of an egg and powdered 
sugar to a froth, and fill the cakes with it. 

tTosephine Cake, 

TIME, ONE HOUR. 

Half a pound of butter ; half a pound of brown sugar ; five 
eggs ; one pound of flour ; half a pound of currants ; one glass 
of white wine. 

Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, then beat in the 
sugar, and the five eggs well beaten. Mix it gradually into a 
pound of flour, add half a pound of currants washed and dried, 
and a glass of white wine, and bake it, when well beaten to- 
gether, in a buttered tin. 

Mich Seed Cake, 

TIME, ONE HOUR. 

Half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; one pound 
of flour ; six eggs ; and some caraway seeds. 

Beat half a pound of butter before the fire to a cream, then 
stir in the pounded sugar, and beat it together for some min- 
utes ; add the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, one 
at a time ; then stir in gradually a pound of flour, and a few 
caraway seeds to taste. Bake it in a tin lined with a buttered 
paper in a moderate oven. 

Hich Cream Cake, 

Stir together, till very white, half a pound of butter, three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar. Beat the wliites and yolks of 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 29 

seven eggs separately to a froth, stir tliem into the cake — put 
in a wine glass of brandy, a grated nutmeg, and a pound and a 
half of sifted flour. Just before it is baked, add half a pint 
of thick cream, and a pound of seeded raisins. 

Drop Cakes, 

One quart of milk, a large teaspoonful of saleratus, dissolved 
in a cup of cream ; to which stir in flour very smoothly until a 
thick batter. Then dip your spoon in milk and with it place 
your batter at short distances in a buttered pan. Very delicate, 
made entirely of cream, either with or without eggs. 

Honey Cakes, 

Boil one pound of honey, then put it in a dish to cool ; add 
three tablespoonsful of sugar, the yolks of ten eggs and the 
whites of five to the honey ; beat it for half an hour ; add half 
a pound of flour, and lastly the whites of five eggs, which beat 
up well ; put it into a buttered mold, and heat in a hot oven ; 
treacle may be used instead of honey. 

Chocolate Cakes, 

Half a pound of finely-sifted sugar, four whites of eggs beaten 
to a stiff froth, four ounces of chocolate ; mix all together, and 
put it on a tin in pieces the size of a half doUaV ; bake it in a 
moderate oven. 

Little White Cakes, 

Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded 
sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, and as much milk and 
water as will make a paste ; roll it thin and cut it out in little 
rounds ; bake fifteen minutes on tin. 



30 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

L/ittle Short Calces. 

Rub into a pound of dry flour four ounces of butter, four 
ounces of white sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin 
cream to make it into a paste ; add some currants, roll it out 
thin, and cut it in rounds ; bake twenty minutes. 

TurJcish Cakes. 

Pound to a paste eight ounces of blanched sweet almonds, 
and a good pinch of saffron ; add a pound of butter, three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar in powder, and a pound of 
fine flour ; beat all together ; break in an egg at a time until 
the paste is of the proj^er consistency. Make it up in the form 
of a flat cake and bake it gently, 

Raisin CaTce, 

Mix with one pound and a half of flour a pound of fresh 
butter, half a pound of loaf sugar, the grated rinds of two 
lemons, eight eggs, a gill of raisin wine, and a pound of Valen- 
cia raisins picked from the stalks and divested of stones ; beat 
all well together till perfectly smooth, and bake quickly in 
rather a hot oven. 

Ladies' Kisses. 

IMake a paste, as for biscuits, of six ounces of potato flour ; 
beat this very* well, spread it thinly on buttered paper, and 
bake for nearly twenty minutes ; cut them out in small rounds, 
and glaze them with white or pink icing. 

Wliite 3Iountain Cake. 

Half pound sugar, half pound flour, one-fourth pound of 
butter, three eggs, one small teaspoonful of baking powder, 
three tablespoonsful of water. Bake in jelly pans. Icing for 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 31 

the cake : three-fourtlis pound of sugar. Spread the icing on 
each layer of the cake while warm, sprinkle grated cocoanut 
on each layer over the icing. 

! 

Poor Han's Cake, 

Six cups of flour, four teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, two of 
soda, two and a half cups of sugar, four eggs, one-quarter 
pound butter and lard (mixed or not, as you choose), one pint 
milk, a little salt, and flavor with lemon, vanilla, or nutmeg. 
Bake three-quarters of an hour, in two pans, or drop with 
spoon, adding a few currants to each cake, or in jelly-cake pans 
and spread. 

tTumbles, 

Stir together, till of a light color, a pound of sugar, and half 
the weight of butter^then add eight eggs, beaten to a froth, 
essence of lemon, or rosewater, to the taste, and flour to make 
them sufficiently stifi" to roll out. Roll them out in powdered 
sugar, about half an inch thick, cut it into strips about half an 
inch wide, and four inches long, join the ends together, so as 
to form rings — lay them on flat tins that have been buttered — 
bake them in a quick oven. 

Sard Molasses Gingerbread, 

To a pint of molasses put half a teacup of melted butter, a- 
tablespoonful of ginger, and a quart of flour. Dissolve a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus in half a pint of water, and stir it in, to- 
gether with flour sufficient to enable you to roll it out. Bake 
it in a moderately warm oven. 

Soft Molasses Gingerbread, 

Melt a teacup of butter — mix it with a pint of molasses, a 
tablespoonful of ginger, a pint of flour, and a couple of beaten 



32 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

eggs. Fresh lemon peel, cut into small strips, improves it. 
Dissolve a couple of teaspoonsful of saleratus iu half a pint of 
milk, and stir it into the cake. Add flour to render it of the 
consistency of unbaked pound cake. Bake it in deep pans 
about half an hour. 

dinger Snaps, 

Melt a quarter of a pound of butter, the same quantity of 
lard — mix them with a quarter of a pound of brown sugar, 
a pint of molasses, a couple of tablespoonsful of ginger, and a 
quart of flour. Dissolve a couple of teaspoonsful of saleratus 
in a wine glass of milk, and strain it into the cake — add suffi- 
cient flour to enable you to roll it out very thin, cut it into 
small cakes, and bake them in a slow oven. 

Apple Cake, 

Scald some codlin apples ; take half a pint of their pulp, 
mix it with the juice of two lemons and half a pound of refined 
loaf sugar, beaten and sifted. Separately whisk to a high froth 
the yolks and whites of six eggs ; mix these with the other 
ingredients ; add some slips of candied lemon peel, and dredge 
in flour enough to make the composition rather stifier than 
ordinary sponge cake. Bake it in a tolerably quick but not 
fierce oven. 

Sugar Drops, 

Stir to a cream three ounces of butter, six of powdered white 
sugar — then add three beaten eggs, half a pound of sifted flour, 
half of a nutmeg. Drop this mixture by the large spoonful on 
to buttered plates, several inches apart, sprinkle small sugar 
plums on the top, and bake them directly. 



' AND GENERAL GUIDE. 33 

Frosting for Cake. 

Allow for the white of one egg nine heaping teaspoonsful 
of double refined sugar, and one of nice Poland starch. The 
sugar and starch should be pounded, and sifted through a very 
fine sieve. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, so that 
you can turn the plate upside down, without the eggs falling 
from it — then stir in the sugar gradually, with a wooden 
spoon — stir it ten or fifteen minutes without any cessation — 
then add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, (vinegar will answer, 
but is not as nice) — put in sufficient rosewater to flavor it. 
If you wish to color it pink, stir in a few grains of cochineal 
powder, or rose pink — if you wish to have it of a blue tinge, 
add a little of what is called the powder blue. Lay the frost- 
ing on the cake with a knife, soon after it is taken from the 
oven — smooth it over and let it remain in a cool place till 
hard. To frost a common sized loaf of cake, allow the white 
of one egg, and half of another 

Country Doughnuts, 

Take of risen wheat bread dough the size of a quart bowl ; 
work into it a teacup of butter, two teacups of clean brown 
sugar, rolled fine, half a nutmeg, grated, a teaspoonful of 
ground cinnamon, and two eggs ; work it to a smooth paste ; 
strew some flour over a paste table and rolling-pin ; put on 
some of the paste, and roll it to a quarter of an inch thickness ; 
rub more flour over the rolling-pin, if the paste sticks ; cut it 
in small squares, stars, or diamonds ; fry in hot fat. 

Superior Doughnuts, 

Take a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, three- 
quarters of a pound of clean brown sugar, rolled fine, one nut- 



34 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

meg, grated, and a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon ; mix these 
well together ; then add a tablespoonful of baker's yeast, with 
as much warm milk, with saleratus the size of a pea dissolved in 
it, as will make a smooth dough ; knead it for a few minutes, 
cover it, and set it in a warm place to rise, for three hours or 
more, until it is light ; then roll it out to a quarter of an inch 
thickness ; cut it in small quares or diamonds, and fry as 
directed. 

Excellent Crullers. 

Take half a pint of sour mUk or buttermilk, one teacup of 
butter, two teacups of sugar, three well-beaten eggs, and a 
small teaspoonful of powdered saleratus dissolved in a little hot 
water ; add a teaspoonful of salt, half a nutmeg, grated, and a 
teaspoonful of ground cinnamon ; work in as much sifted 
wheat flour as will make a smooth dough ; work it well to- 
gether ; roll the cakes to twice the thickness of a dollar piece ; 
cut it in pieces two inches square ; cut it in fingers, twist each 
a little, and join the ends together, and fry as before directed. 
These cakes may be cut in rings, stars, baskets, or any other 
fancy shapes. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



35 



PES AID m 

Directions for Sahing and Making Pies, Tarts, &c. 




jE careful that the oven, whether of brick or a 
range or stove, be perfectly clean and free from 
any sugar or fat from anything which may 
have run over whilst baking. 

The delicacy of pastry depends as much 
upon the baking as the making, therefore strict 
attention should be paid to the following di- 
rections : 

PuflF paste requires a quick oven heat; a 
hot oven would curl the paste and scorch it. 

Tart paste or short paste requires a degree less of heat. 
For raised or light crust, the oven may be heated as for puff 
paste. 

A brick oven must be thoroughly heated, that is, have a 
body of heat, else it wUl render pastry or cakes heavy ; this 
must be attended to before beginning to bake ; there may be 
sufficient heat to raise, and yet not enough to finish baking. 

When baking with coal, if the fire is not brisk enough, do 
not put on more coal, but add a stick or two of hard wood, or 
if nearly done, put in a stick of pine wood. 

CoxAiMON Puff Paste, for Pies. — Put one pound of sifted 
wheat flour on the slab, or into an earthen basin ; make a hol- 
low in the centre, work into it quarter of a pound of lard, and 
a teaspoonful of salt ; when it is mixed through the flour, add 
as much cold water as will bind it together ; then strew a little 



36 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

flour over the paste-board, or table ; flour the rolling-pin, and 
roll out the paste to half an inch thickness ; divide half a pound 
of butter in three parts ; spread one evenly over the paste ; fold 
it up, dredge a little flour over it, and the paste-slab, or table 5 
roll it out again, spread another portion of the butter over, and 
fold, and roll again ; so continue until all the butter is used ; 
roll it out to quarter of an inch thickness for pies. 

Crreen Currant Pie. 

Currants will make good and wholesome pies at nearly all 
stages of theu" growth. They only require to be stewed, and 
sweetened according to their degree of acidity, and baked be- 
tween two crusts in the ordinary manner. The addition of a 
little dried or green apple gives a fine flavor. 

Gooseberry Pie. 

This is made in the same way as the preceding, but requires 
a larger proportion of sugar. The berries should be nearly or 
quite full grown. A little apple may be used if preferred. 

MJiubarb Pie, 

Take the tender stalks of the rhubarb, strip off" the skin, 
and cut the stalks into thin slices. Line deep plates with pie 
crust, then put in the rhubarb, with a thick layer of sugar to 
each layer of rhubarb — a little grated lemon peel improves 
the pie. Cover the pies with a thick crust — press it down 
tight round the edge of the plate, and prick the crust with a 
fork, so that the crust will not burst while baking, and let out 
the juices of the pie. Rhubarb pies should be baked about 
an hour, in a slow oven — it will not do to bake them quick. 
Some cooks stew the rhubarb before making it into pies, but 
it is not so jrood as when used without stewing. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 37 

Tomato Pie, 

Take green tomatoes, turn boiling water on them, and let 
them remain in it a few minutes — then strip oif the skin, cut 
the tomatoes in slices, and put them in deep pie plates. 
Sprinkle sugar over each layer, and a little ginger. Grated 
lemon peel, and the juice of a lemon improve the pie. Cover 
the pies with a thick crust, and bake them slowly for about 
an hour. 

Lemon Pie, 

For one pie, take a couple of good sized fresh lemons^ 
squeeze out the juice, and mix it with half a pint of molasses, 
or sufficient sugar to make the juice sweet. Chop the peel 
fine, line a deep pie plate with your pastry, then sprinkle on 
a layer of your chopped lemon peel, turn in part of the mixed 
sugar or molasses, and juice, then cover the whole with pio 
crust, rolled very thin — put in another layer of peel, sweet- 
ened juice, and crust, and so on, tUl all the lemon is used. 
Cover the whole with a thick crust, and bake the pie about 
half an hour. 

CJierry and Blackberry Fie. 

Cherries and blackberries for pies should be ripe. Bake 
them in deep pie plates, sweeten them with sugar, and put in 
cloves or cinnamon to the taste. Bake them about half an 
hour. 

Crrape Pie, 

Grapes make the best pies when very tender and green. 
If not vei-y small, they should be stewed and strained, to get 
out the seeds, before they are made into pies — sweeten them 
to the taste when stewed. They do not require any spice. 



38 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

If made into a pie without stewing, put to each layer of grapes 
a thick layer of sugar, and a tablespoonful of water. 

Currant and Gooseberry Pie, 

Currants and gooseberries are the best for pies when of a 
full growth, just before they begin to turn red — they are tol- 
erably good when ripe. Currants mixed with ripe raspberries 
or mulberries, make very nice pies. Green currants and 
gooseberries for pies are not apt to be sweet enough without 
the sugar is scalded in before they are baked, as the juice of 
the currants is apt to run out while they are baking, and leave 
the fruit dry. Stew them on a moderate fire, with a teacup of 
water to a couple of quarts of currants — as soon as they begin 
to break, add the sugar, and let it scald in a few minutes. 
When baked without stewing, put to each layer of fruit a thick 
layer of sugar. There should be as much as a quarter of a 
pound of sugar to a pint of currants, to make them sufficiently 
sweet. Green currant pies are good sweetened with molasses 
and sugar mixed. 

Prune Pie, 

Prunes that are too dry to eat without stewing, can be made 
into good pies. Turn enough boiling water on the prunes to 
cover them, set them on a few coals, and let them remain till 
swelled out plump. If there is not water sufficient to make a 
nice syrup for the pies, add more, and season them with cinna- 
mon or cloves. The juice and grated peel of a lemon gives 
them a fine flavor. Add sugar to the taste, and bake them in 
deep pie plates. 

WJiortleberry Pie, 

Put a quart of picked huckleberries into a basin of water, 
take oflf whatever floats, take up the berries by the haadfiil, 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 39 

pick out all tlie stems and unripe ben-ies, and put them into a 
. dish ; line a buttered pie dish with a pie paste, put in the 
berries half an inch deep, and to a quart of berries put a tea- 
icup of brown sugar, and half a teacup of water ; dredge a tea- 
spoonful of flour over, strew a saltspoonful of salt, and half a 
nutmeg grated over ; cover the pie, cut a slit in the centre, or 
make several small incisions on either side of it, press the two 
crusts together around the edge, trim it off neatly with a sharp 
knife, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour. 

Peach Pie, 

Take juicy and mellow peaches ; peel, stone, and slice them ; 
then put them in a deep pie plate lined with the under crust ; 
sprinkle through them a sufficient quantity of sugar, equally 
distributed ; put in about a tablespoonful of water ; dust a 
little flour over the top ; cover with a rather thick crust, and 
bake nearly an hour. 

Peach Pot-pie, 

Put your crust into a pot, fill with peaches and cover them 
with sugar-house molasses, put a crust on the top, and let it 
boil until the peaches are done. Plums, apples, and berries of 
all kinds, may be made the same way. 

Dried Peach Pie, 

Select clean and medium tart peaches ; stew until soft ; 
sweeten with sugar, and flavor with cinnamon. Place the 
peaches half an inch thick between the crusts, and bake a nice 
brown. 

CrTeen Apple Pie. 

Peel and core moderately tart and ripe apples — pippins, rus- 
sets, and greenings are excellent ; cut them into very thin 



40 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

slices; fill the under crust; then sprinkle over them brown 
sugar, or pour over molasses to sweeten sufficiently ; lay over 
the upper crust; and bake them in a moderate oven about 
forty minutes. 

Dried Apple Fie, 

Select clean and rich flavored fruit, and that which is not 
very sour ; stew until soft ; sweeten with brown sugar or mo- 
lasses ; place the apples half an inch thick between the crusts, 
and bake them about half an hour. 

Scotch Apple Pie, 

Take a dozen good baking apples ; peel, core, and cut them 
up small ; put an edge of crust to a pie dish ; throw in some 
sugar at the bottom, then put in your apples, and'lay half a 
pot of Scotch marmalade on the top ; cover with a lid of crust, 
and bake for an hoiu". 

PunipMfi Pie, 

Peel your pumpkin, take away the seeds, then cut it into 
small pieces, and put it into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of 
water or cider at the bottom; when tender, mash it very 
smooth, and while warm, stir in a quarter of a pound of fresh 
butter, the yolks of eight eggs well beaten, some nutmeg, half 
an ounce of grated ginger, sugar to taste, and enough cream to 
lighten it. Bake it in a dish lined with a paste, and cover it 
with a top crust. An hour and a half will do it. 

Plwn Pie. 

Make a rich crust, put in one pound of sugar to two pounds 
of plums, and a little molasses — it must be' well baked. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 41 

Cherry Pie. 

A ricli crust. Tlie cherries must be well sweetened, and 
the pie well baked. 

Apple and Quince Pie, 

Peel twelve apples and two quinces, stew and sweeten them ; 
bake in a rich crust. 

Orange or Lemon Pie* 

Rub six oranges or lemons with salt, and put them into 
water, with a handful of salt, for two days. Put every day 
fresh water without salt for a fortnight. Boil them tender, 
cut them in half quarters, corner ways, quite thin ; boil six 
pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, in a pint of water till 
they break, then put the liquor to the oranges or lemons, with 
half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of sugar; 
boil them a quarter of an hour, then put them into a pot and 
squeeze in two spoonsful of the juice of either orange or lemon, 
according to the kind of tart ; put puff paste, very thin, into 
shallow patty-pans. Take a brush, and rub them over with 
melted butter, sift double refined sugar over them, which will 
form a pretty icing, and bake them, 

Codlin Pie, 

Put some small codlins into a glazed saucepan, lay vine- 
leaves over them, and add enough water to cover them : place 
them by the side of a very slow fire; keep the steam from 
escaping, and when they are nicely greened, take them out, 
arrange them in a dish with plenty of powdered loaf sugar; 
put a rim of paste round the dish and a top of light crust. 
Bake for an hour. Either serve with a custard apart, or when 
done, lift the crust and pour a custard over the fruit. 



42 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Mince Fie, 

Rub and pick clean seven pounds of currants, and three 
pounds and a-half of beef suet cliopped fine, tliree pounds and 
a-half of the lean of a sirloin of beef minced raw, three pounds 
and a-half of apples, chopped fine (which should be the jjip- 
pin), half a pound of citron cut in small pieces, half a pound 
of lemon peel, half a pound of orange peel, two pounds of fine 
moist sugar, one ounce of spice (such as cloves, mace, nutmegs, 
and cinnamon, pounded together, and sifted), the rind of four 
lemons, and four Seville oranges ; rub all this together till well 
mixed, then put it into a deep pan ; mis one bottle of brandy, 
and the juice of the lemons and oranges that have been grated, 
together in a basin; pour half over, and press it down tight 
with your hand, then add the other half, and let it remain at 
the top to soak in by degrees ; cover up close. It' should be 
made six weeks before wanted ; the pans must be sheeted with 
puff paste, and covered with the same. About ten minutes 
will bake them. 

Lent Minced Pie, 

Take the yolks and whites of four hard-boiled eggs ; shred 
them fine ; add to them three or four apples pared, cored, and 
chopped small, half a pound each of dried currants and raisins 
stoned and cut up, two ounces of sugar, a quarter of a pound 
of mixed candied-peel, and the juice of two Seville oranges. 
Stir the whole well together ; line a dish with a puff paste, 
lay in your mince, cover it with a top-crust, and bake for three-> 
quarters of an hour in a gentle oven. If preferred, you can 
make it into small pies, and bake them for twenty minutes. 

Letnon Mince Fie, 

Squeeze a lenion, boil the .outside till tender enough to beat 
to a mash, add to if three apples chopped, four ounces of suet, 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 43 

half a pound oi currants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice 
of a lemon, and candied fruit, as for other pies. Make a short 
crust and fill the patty-pans. 

Yankee Mince Pie, 

Two pounds of meat, one pound of suet, half a peck of 
apples, one pound raisins, one pound currants, four ounces 
citron, two nutmegs, four spoonsful ground cinnamon, two 
dozen ground cloves, the juice of two lemons, the rinds of two 
grated, a little ground allspice, sugar to the taste, moisten with 
yankee rum, enough to suit the taste. 

Raisin Pie. 

For six good sized pies take one pound of seedless raisins, 
stew until soft, sweeten with about half a pound of sugar, 
thicken with a little flour and place between rich crusts, and 
bake half an hour. 

Cheese Cahes, 

TIME, FIFTEEN TO TWENTY MINUTES. 

Beat half a pint of good curd with four eggs, three spoons- 
ful of rich cream, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a spoonful of 
ratafia, and a quarter of a pound of currants washed and dried. 
Mix all well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with a good 
puff paste. 

Apple CJieese Calces, 

TIME, FIFTEEN TO TWENTY MINUTES. 

Pare and core twelve large apples, and boil them as for 
apple sauce, with a small quantity of water. Mash them very 
smooth, and stir in the juice of two lemons and the peel grated, 
the yolks of five or six eggs, and four ounces of butter beaten 
to a cream, sweeten to your taste with pounded loaf sugar, and 
bake them in patty-pans lined with a rich puff paste. 



44 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Lemon CJieese Cakes. 

TIME, FIFTEEN TO TWENTY MINUTES. 

A quarter of a pound of warmed butter ; peel of two lemons, 
juice of one ; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar ; a few 
almonds ; puff paste. 

Just warm tte butter; stir into it tbe sugar pounded fine, 
and when dissolved, mix with it the peel of two lemons grated, 
and the juice of one strained. Mix all well together, and pour 
it into patty-pans, lined with puff paste. Put a few blanched 
almonds on the top of each. 

Almond CJieese Cakes. 

TIME, FIFTEEN TO TWENTY MINUTES. 

A quarter of a pound of sweet almonds; six bitter almonds; 
one spoonful of water; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; 
one spoonful of cream ; whites of two eggs ; puff paste. 

Blanch and pound the sweet and bitter almonds with a 
spoonful of water; then add a quarter of a pound of sugar 
pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs 
well beaten. Mix all as quick as possible, put it into very 
small patty-pans lined with puff paste, and bake in a warm 
oven nearly twenty minutes. 

Cream JPuffs, 

Two ounces of finely pounded sweet almond",, the same of 
clarified butter and sifted sugar, two spoonsful of flour, the 
yolks of two eggs, half a pint of cream, and a very little orange 
jelly ; beat all well together ; butter the pans, fill them only 
half full, and bake for half an hour in a slow oven. 

French Puffs. 

Roll out puff paste of nearly half an inch thick, cut it into 
pieces of five inches wide, to have when doubled the form of 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 45 

squares or triangles ; place some raspberry jam on each, then 
double them up and pinch them close to the edges, and bake 
them. 

Itich Custards, 

Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinnamon ; mix a 
pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs well beaten ; when 
the milk tastes of tbe seasoning, sweeten it enough for the 
whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well ; then give the 
custard a simmer till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil ; 
stir the whole time one way ; season as above. If to be ex- 
tremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. 

Baked Custard. 

Boil one pint of cream and half a pint of milk, with mace, 
cinnamon, and lemon peel, a little of each. When cold, mix 
the yolks of three eggs ; sweeten and make your cups or paste 
nearly full. Bake them ten minutes. 

Lemon Custards, 

Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white as milk ; 
then put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two 
lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to your taste. Stir it 
on the fire till thick enough ; then add a large glass of rich 
wine, and half a glass of brandy ; give the whole one scald, 
and put in the cups, to be eaten cold. 

Mottled Custards, 

Stir into a quart of milk, while boiling, the beaten yolks of 
six eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs with three tablespoons- 
ful of powdered white sugar, if the custards are liked very 
sweet — if not, a less quantity will answer. Stir in the whites 



46 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

of the eggs a minute after the yolks have set, so as to be thick. 
Season the custard with essence of lemon or rosewater — stir it 
till it becomes thick and lumpy, then tui-n it into cups. 

Cream Custards. 

Sweeten a pint of cream with powdered white sugar — set it 
on a few coals. When hot, stir in white wine until it curdles 
— add rosewater or essence of lemon to the taste, and turn it 
into cups. Another way of making them, which is very nice, 
is to mix a pint of cream with one of milk, five beaten eggs, a 
tablespoonful of flour, and three of sugar. Add nutmeg to the 
taste, and bake the custards in cups or pie plates in a quick 
oven. 

Almond Custards, 

Blanch and pound fine, with a tablespoonful of rosewater, 
four ounces of almonds. Boil them four or five minutes in a 
quart of milk, with sufiicient white sugar to sweeten the milk. 
Take it from the fire, and when lukewarm, stii- in the beaten 
yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs. Set the whole on 
the fire, and stir it constantly until it thickens — then take it 
up, stir it till partly cooled, and turn it into cups. If you wish 
to have the custards cool quick, set the cups into a pan of cold 
water — as fast as it gets warm, change it. Just before the 
custards are to be eaten, beat the reserved whites of the eggs 
to a froth, and cover the top of the custards with them. 

French Raspberry Tart, 

Choose a pint of very fine ripe raspberries, either red or 
white ; stem them, and throw them into a boiling syrup, made 
with a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar and a tablespoonful of 
water ; withdi'aw them immediately from the fire ; line a tart- 



AND GENERAL GTJIDE. 47 

disli with a puff paste rolled as thinly as possible ; lay in the 
fruit and syrup, obseiTing to keep the raspberries as whole as 
possible ; put it into a quick oven for twenty minutes ; strew 
more sugar over it, and glaze it ; or, if to be served cold, pour 
raw cream over it. 

Strawberry Tart. 

Stew the fruit until soft ; sweeten with brown sugar, about 
six ounces to a pound of the fruit, and bake moderately on a 
single crust. 

Cranberry Tart, 

Wash the berries in a pan of water, rejecting all the bad 
ones ; simmer them until they become soft and burst open ; 
sweeten with half a pound of sugar to a pound of the fruit ; 
place it again over the fire till it comes to the boiling point ; 
then place it on a thick under crust, and bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Black Currant Tart, 

Lightly stem and top the currants, being careful not to 
bruise them ; put them into a tart-dish with a rim of paste, 
and, as they are considered to be too rich by themselves, it is 
advisable to add a little white currant juice or cider to dilute 
their flavor ; throw in a good deal of sugar, cover them with a 
top crust, and bake rather more than an hour. 

Apple Tart, 

Peel and slice some nice tart apples and stew them with a 
small teacup of water, and the same of sugar, to a quart of 
sliced apples ; add half a nutmeg *gi-ated, a saltspoonful of salt, 
and a little grated lemon peel or lemon extract, or half a tea- 



48 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

spoonful of ground cinnamon, set thera to become cold ; line 
some small pie-plates with rich pie paste or light puif paste, put 
in the stewed apples, half an inch deep, roll out some of the 
paste, wet it over slightly with the yolk of an egg beaten with 
a little milk and a teaspoonful of sugar, cut it in strips the 
width of a finger, and lay it in bars or diamonds across the 
tart, lay another strip around the edge, trim ofi" the outside 
neatly with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the 
paste loosens from the dish. 

Flum Tart, 

Three-quarters of a pound of good short crust, one and a 
half pints of plums, one-quarter pound of moist sugar. 

Line the edge of a deep tart-dish with crust ; fill the dish 
with plums, and place a small cup or jar, upside down, in the 
midst of them. Put in the sugar, cover the pie with crust, 
ornament the edges, and bake in a good oven from a half to 
three-quarters of an hour. 

Floating Island, 

Put four quarts of cream or milk in your glass, sweeten and 
add rosewater and grated lemon peel, to your taste, beat the 
whites of twenty eggs until stiff, color it with currant or quince 
jelly, beating all the time, until it will stand alone, then put it 
with a tablespoon on top of the milk. To be eaten imme- 
diately. 

Meat and Vegetable Fie, ^ 

Take either cold beef, veal, or mutton, mince it very fine, 
and mix it with some bread crumbs ; have a dish covered with 
paste, put some mince at the bottom, then put in a few bearded 
oysters, next the limbs of chicken, turkey, or rabbit boned J 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 49 

then put a layer of peas or spinach, some force-meat balls, and 
a few small mushrooms, pour in some rich gravy, thicken with 
cream and flour ; strew it over thickly with bread crumbs, and 
at the top an egg beat well ; then bake in the oven. 

Mdbhit or Hare Pie, 

Cut into pieces, season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace ; 
put it into a jug, with half a pound of butter, close it up, set 
it in a copper of boiling water, and make a force-meat, with a 
quarter of a pound of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red 
wine, crumbs of bread, winter savory, the liver cut small, and 
nutmeg. Season high with pepper and salt ; mix it well up 
with the yolks of three eggs, raise the pie, and lay the force, 
meat in the bottom of the dish. Then put in the rabbit or 
hare, with the gravy that came out of it ; lay on the lid, and 
send it to the oven. An hour and a half will bake it. 

Pigeon or Game Pie, 

Line the sides of a dish with paste, and put at the bottom 
either a beef steak or veal cutlet, dredge with flour ; clean six 
young pigeons very nicely, pound a little of the white part of 
chicken, veal, or turkey very fine ; mix four hard boiled yolks 
of eggs with it, and a little butter ; roll the force-meat in flour 
and stufi" the pigeons with it ; place them in the dish with 
their breasts down. 

Oyster Pie, 

Line a tin plate with plain paste, and then put in two dozen 
oysters, sprinkle with a little pepper, salt, and grate on a little 
nutmeg. Strew in a little butter, and cover with a rich paste. 
Bake twenty minutes, and serve immediately. * Chicken or 
game cut up and mixed in will improve this pie greatly. 



50 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Turkey Patties, 

Mince some of the white part of cold turkey, mix Tvith it a 
little salt and a very little cream or butter ; have pattypans 
covered with light paste, fill them and bake them. The meat 
of cold fowl or game may be used in the same way. 

To Glaze Pastry. 

To glaze pastry, which is the usual method adopted for meat 
or raised pies, break an egg, separate the yolk from the white, 
and beat the former for a short time. Then, when the pastry 
is nearly baked, take it out of the oven, brush it over with this 
beaten yolk of egg, and put it back in the oven to set the 
glaze. 

Oxford Dtimplings. 

Take eight ounces of biscuit or crackers that is pounded 
fine, and soak it in just sufl&cient milk to cover it. When 
soft, stir in three beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of flour, and a 
quarter of a pound of currants. Grate in half a nutmeg, and 
do up the mixture into balls of the size of an egg — fry them 
till a light brown. 

Apple Dtintplinffs. 

Pare tart, mellow apples — take out the cores with a small 
knife, and fill the holes with sugar. Make good pie crust — 
roll it out about two-thirds of an inch thick, put it into piecei 
just large enough to enclose one apple. Lay the apples on 
them, and close the crust tight over them — tie them up in 
small pieces of thick cloth, that has been well floured- — put 
the dumplings in a pot of boiling water, and boil them an hour 
without any intermission — if allowed to stop boiling, they 
will be heavy. Serve them up with pudding sauce, or butter 
and sugar. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 51 

Saked Apple DiinipUngs, 

One pound of flour, four ounces of chopped suet, half 
a pint of water, a pinch of salt, eight or ten large apples 
peeled. With the above ingredients prepare some suet paste ; 
divide the paste into about eight equal parts, first make 
these into balls with the hand, and then roll them out with 
a rolling-pin to the size of a large saucer, envelope an apple 
in each flat of paste, and, wetting the edges with water, gather 
them round in a purse-like form, and twist the ends tightly 
together to fasten them securely. The duniplings, thus formed, 
must be placed (to the twisted end, at equal distances of three 
inches apart from each oth«r, upon a tin baking-dish, and baked 
in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour. 
% 
Peach Dumplings, 

Pare and stone some fine large peaches, and follow direc- 
tions the same as for apple dumplings. 

Maspherry Dumplings. 

Make a good cold paste, roll it a quarter of an inch thick, 
and spread over it raspberry jam to your own liking, roll it up, 
and boil it in a cloth one hour at least, take it up and cut it in 
five slices, and lay one in the middle and the other four round 
it, pour a little good melted butter in the dish, and grate fine 
sugar round the edge of the dish. 



52 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 




OUSEWIVES generally vie with each other 
in the production of puddings. I therefore 
offer for their assistance a selection of the 
very best American, English, and French 
receipts that can be obtained. 

Plum Pudding, 

TIME, THRB« HOURS. 

Six ounces of raisins ; six ounces of cur- 
rants ; six ounces of bread crumbs ; six 
ounces of suet ; half a nutmeg ; a little lemon peel ; five eggs • 
half a wineglass of brandy. 

Mix these ingredients together, and put the pudding into a 
mold and boil it. 

Fruit Pudding. 

CAN BE MADE WITH ANY KIND OF FRUIT. 

This pudding may either be made of apples pared and cut 
in pieces, green unripe gooseberries, currants, cherries, dam- 
•sons, or blackberries. The paste generally used for this pud- 
ding is made with beef suet finely chopped, and flour, in the 
proportion of four ounces of suet to a poimd of flour ; mix it 
into a dough with water and a little salt, then knead it and 
roll it out ; place the fruit in it, gather up the edges and tie 
it in a cloth, or put it in a mold with paste at the top, and tie 
it in a cloth and boil it. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 53 

Victoria Batter Pudding, 

Six eggs ; six tablespoonsful of flour ; one quart of milk. 

Beat six eggs with tlie flour until very light, then stir it 
into a quart of milk, beat them well together ; butter a dish 
and put in the mixture ; bake it an hour in a hot or quick 
oven. Serve with brandy or sweet sauce, or, instead of brandy 
or wine, lemon juice may be used. 

This pudding may be tied in a cloth or put into a basin, and 
boiled two hours. 

Ma^ori's Cream, Custard Pudding, 

TIME, THREE-QUARTERS OF AN HOUR. 

Six eggs ; one quart of cream ; half a nutmeg ; sugar to 
your taste ; a teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Beat the eggs very light, stir them into the cream, sweeten 
it to your taste, and add the nutmeg and vanilla. Bake it one 
hour in a quick oven in a dish, with or without a bottom 
crust. 

Cup Puddings, 

TIMK TO BAKE, TWENTY MINUTES. 

Three ounces of flour ; three ounces of butter ; two ounces 
of sugar ; half a pint of milk. 

Beat the butter to a cream, add to it the 'sugar pounded, stir 
in the flour, and mix it with a pint of milk. Put the mixture 
into buttered cups, and bake them. 

A Yorkshire Pudding, 

Four ounces of grated bread, four ounces of currants, four 
ounces of apples, two ounces of sugar, three eggs, a few drops 
of essence of lemon, a little grated nutmeg. 



54 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Pare, core, and mince the apples veiy finely, sufficient, when 
minced, to make four ounces ; add to these the currants, which 
should be well washed, the grated bread, and sugar ; whisk 
the eggs, beat these up with the remaining ingredients, and, 
when all is thorougly mixed, put the pudding into a buttered 
basin, tie it down with a cloth, and boil for three hours. 

JSread Pudding. 

TIME, ONE HOUR, OR MORE. 

* 

Take a pint of bread crumbs ; put them into a stew-pan with 
as much milk as will cover them ; add the peel of a lemon 
grated, and a little nutmeg and cinnamon. Boil it for ten 
minutes, and then sweeten it to your taste. Take out the cin- 
namon, and stir in the well-beaten eggs. Beat all well together, 
and bake it for one hour. If boiled, it will require rather 
more than the hour. 

Plain Mice Pudding, 

TIME, ONE HOUR. 

Beat three eggs light, and stir them into a quart of milk, 
with a little salt, and a wineglass of rice well washed ; put to 
it two tablespoonsful of sugar, half a,^ nutmeg grated, and a 
tablespoonful of butter. Bake one hour in a quick oven, 

American CJiristnias Pudding. 

Two pounds each of stoned raisins and cleaned currants, one 
pound each of chopped apple and French prunes, one pound 
each of bread crambs and moist sugar, two pounds of suet, 
some beaten nutmeg, mace, and cloves, a little salt, the juice of 
three lemons, eight beaten eggs, and sufficient white wine to 
make it a very stiff batter. Boil in a cloth for eight hours. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 55 

Plain Suet Pudding, 

TIMK, TWO HOURS AND A HALF TO THREE HOURS. 

One pound of flour ; four ounces of beef suet ; a pinch or 
two of salt ; half a pint of water. 

Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the flour, and a 
pinch or two of salt, and work the whole into a smooth paste 
with about half a pint of watei. Tie the pudding in a cloth, 
the shaj^e of a bolster, and when done, cut it in slices and put 
butter between each slice. Or boil it in a buttered basin, turn 
it out when done, and serve it whole and without butter. 

One or two beaten eggs added to the above, with a less 
quantity of water may be used. 

Tapioca Pudding, 

TIME, ONE HOUR TO BAKE. 

One quart of new milk ; three ounces of tapioca ; an ounce 
and a half of butter ; four eggs ; grated lemon peel, or any 
other flavoring ; three ounces of sugar ; puff paste. 

Put the tapioca into a stewpan with a quart of milk, and let 
it simmer by the side of the fire for nearly twenty minutes, 
stirring it frequently to prevent its burning, turn it out to cool, 
and then stir Into it the sugar, the flavoring, and the eggs 
well-beaten. Bake it in a well buttered pie-dish with a puff 
paste round the edge, or without, as you may prefer. One 
hour will bake it in a moderate oven. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 

Grate a small fresh cocoanut ; work togetner a quarter of a 
pound of powdered loaf sugar and butter until they froth ; 
gradually stir into a pint of cream six beaten eggs ; mix all the 
ingredients together j bake the pudding with or without the 



56 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

addition of a liglit crust in the dish ; sift powdered sugar over 
it wlien served. 

naked Apple Pudding, 

Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them tender, with 
the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none 
may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mortar, and add the 
crumb of a small roll, four ounces qf butter melted, the yolks 
of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and 
sugar to taste ; beat all together, and lay it in a dish with 
paste to turn out. 

Winter Pudding, 

Take the crust of a baker's loaf of bread, and fill it with 
plums ; boil it in milk and water. 

A Swiss Pudding, 

Put layers of bread crumbs and sliced apples, with sugar, 
till the dish is filled ; let the last layer be of crumbs ; poui 
some melted butter over it, and bake it. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



57 



JILUIS 




Stratvberryf 'Raspberry , and Rlack- 
berry Jelly, 

ELLIES of these fruits are all made in the fol- 
lowing manner : Take the berries when ripe, 
and in their prime, mash them, and let them 
di'ain through a flannel bag, without squeezing 
it: To each pint of juice, put a pound of white 
sugar, and the beaten white of an egg to three 
pounds of the sugar. Set it on the fire — when 
it boils up well, take it from the fire and skim 
it clear. Set it back, on the fire — if any more 
scum rises, take it from the fire and skim it off. Boil it till it 
becomes a jelly, which is ascertained by taking a little of it up 
into a tumbler of cold water. If it falls to the bottom in a 
solid mass, it is sufficiently boiled. 



Cranberry, Grape, and Currant tTelly. 

They are all made in the same manner. Take the fruit in 
its prime, wash and drain it till nearly dry, then put it in an 
earthen jar, or pot, and set the pot in a kettle of hot water. 
Set the kettle where the water will boil, taking care that none 
of it gets into the jar. When the fruit breaks, turn it into a 
flannel bag, and let it drain slowly through, into a deep dish, 
without squeezing. When the juice has all passed through 
the bag, put to each pint of it a pound and a half of white 



58 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

sugar. Put to eacli quart of the syrup tlie beaten white of an 
egg. Set the syrup where it will boil gently — as fast as any 
scum rises, take the syrup from the fire, and skim it clear. 
When the jelly has boiled fifteen or twenty minutes, try a little 
of it in a tumbler of cold water — if it sinks to the bottom of 
the tumbler in a solid lump, it is sufiiciently boiled. Jellies 
are improved by being put in the sun for several days — care 
must be taken that the dew does not fall on them. 

Green Gage or other Flum Jelly 

Slightly bruise the ripe fruit and place it in an earthenware 
colander ; set this over a basin, in which you have put twelve 
ounces of loaf sugar to each quart of pliuns ; stand it in a slack 
oven, and when the juice has pretty well left the fruit, boil the 
syrup until it is thick enough. Keep it in "small glasses or 
ornamental molds, covered closely from the air. 

Claret Jelly, 

Dissolve an ounce and a quarter of isinglass and half a pound 
of loaf sugar in half a pint of water ; add a pint of good claret, 
a wineglassful of brandy, and half that quantity of maraschino ; 
strain through a jelly-bag and put into a mold. ' 

Orange Jelly, 

Squeeze the juice from some sweet oranges, strain it through 
a fine hair sieve, and to every pint of juice put a full pound of 
good loaf sugar, and a quarter of an ounce of dissolved isin- 
glass ; let it boil for twenty minutes. 

Calves Feet Jelly. 

Boil four calves-feet or cow-heels in two gallons of water 
until it is reduced to two quarts ; strain it, and when cold skim 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 59 

off the fat; then put the jelly to boil, with a pint of sherry, a 
glass of good brandy, the peel and juice of three lemons, enough 
loaf sugar to sweeten it, and the whites and sJiells of six eggs, 
well-beaten. Stir all together till it comes to a boil ; let it boil 
quickly for a few minutes, then strain it through a flannel jelly- 
bag until it is quite clear. A very little saffron boiled with it 
gives a rich color. 

Confectioner's Jelly, 

Isinglass dissolved in water by boiling, and evaporated until 
it jellies on cooling. In order to render it perfectly transparent, 
it should be clarified with white of egg. Spices, wine, and 
milk, may be added to suit the taste. Three ounces of good 
isinglass should make at least a quart of very strong jelly. 

Iceland Moss Jelly. 

Take one ounce of Iceland moss, wash it well, then break it 
up, and put it to stand all night in water just tepid when the 
moss is put in. Next morning take it out, and boil it in a 
quart of water till the quantity is reduced one half. Then 
strain it off into a basin. 

This jelly is a slight tonic, rather bitter ; and may be taken 
either plain or with milk or wine. 

Qu,ince Jelly, 

Halve the quinces, and take out the cores. BoU the quinces 
till very soft, in clear water, mash them, and let them drain 
through a flannel bag, without squeezing them. Put to the 
quince liquor, when drained through the bag, white sugar, in 
the proportion of a pound to a pint of the liquor. Add the 
whites of eggs, and clarify it. When clear, boil it on a mod- 
erate fire, till it becomes a thick jelly. Fill glasses with the 



60 . CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

jelly, and cover them tight. The quince pulp that remains in 
the jelly-bag can be made into marmalade. 

Apple Jelly . 

(AK AMERICAN RECEIPT.) 

Take any cjuantity of sound common apples, those with red 
skins make the brightest colored jelly ; wash carefully, but do 
not peel them ; fill a preserving-pan with the apples, and just 
cover them with water ; boil till they are all in a pulp, then 
strain it through a hair sieve. To every pint of juice add one 
pound of white sugar, and a little essence of lemon ; boil the 
whole till it is perfectly clear, and jellies when cold ; it ought 
to turn out of a shape quite stiff and clear. The Americans 
make it of wild crab apples, and the bright red of their skins 
makes the jelly a most beautiful color, 

Raspherry and Slackberry tTam, 

For each pound .of berries allow a pound of sugar. . Put a 
layer of each alternately in a preserving dish. Let them remain 
half an hour — then boil them slowly, stirring them frequently, 
to keep them from burning. When they have boiled half an 
hour, take a little up in a cup, and set it in a dish of cold water, 
if it appears of the consistency of thick jelly take the whole 
from the fire, if not, boil it until it becomes so. 

Strawberry tJ^tn. 

Put ar\^ equal weight of good ripe scarlet strawberries and 
broken loaf sugar into a preserving-pan ; let them boil very 
slowly until the sugar is all dissolved. The fruit should be 
kept as much unbroken as possible, therefore stir very care- 
fully ; remove the scum as it rises ; the addition of half a pint 
of white currant juice to every four pounds of fruit is a great 
improvement, strawberry jam being rather a luscious precerve. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 61 

Boil from fqrty minutes to an hour, until tlie fruit looks clear. 
Gooseberry jam may be made in tlie same way. 

Currant Jam. 

Strijx tlie currants from the stalks, and put them into the 
preserving-pan, with three-quarters of a pound of sugar to each 
pound of fruit ; add the sugar after the fruit has boiled a few 
minutes; boil together, mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon, 
and taking off all the scum ; boil all gently for half an hour, 
then fill the jkrs. Red, white or black currants may be used 
in this receipt. 

Cptllin tfam. 

Pare and core two dozen full-grown codlins ; put them into 
an enamelled saucepan, with only enough water to cover them. 
Boil them to a pulp, mash them with a spoon until they are 
smooth, and to every pound of fruit put half a pound of white 
sugar ; boil it again for an hour, skimming it when necessary. 
As soon as sufficiently cold, put it into your preserving pots. 

Cherry Jam. 

Stone either May-duke, or Kentish cherries when they are 
perfectly ripe; break about half of the stones, blanch the 
kernels and add them to the fruit. Put all into a preserving- 
pan with half the weight of refined sugar ; simmer gently till 
tolerably thickened ; turn it inta pots and cover them with 
brandied paper and skin. The stones may be pushed out by 
a skewer, as the fruit loses its color if a knife is used for the 
purpose. 

Orange Jam. 

Take sweet oranges, squeeze them, pass as much of the pulp 
as will go through a sieve ; to every quart of fruit put a pound 
of white sugar, and boil it twenty minutes. 



62 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



Peach Marmelade, 



Weigh two pounds of sugar and three pounds and a half of 
sound ripe peaches ; take the stones from the latter ; place the 
fruit in a hair sieve, and press out the pulp ; place this in a 
preserving-^ian with the above quantity of sugar. Do it gently 
for fifteen minutes ; blanch and slice the kernels, ad4 them to 
the marmelade, give a boil up altogether, and put the preserve 
into pots, molds, or glasses. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



63 



mmmmm.. 




WEETMEATS should be kept in a cool, dry 
place ; they should be properly boiled, and then 
they will not be likely to ferment; but they 
should be well looked to the first two months, 
and if not likely to keep, set the jar in the oven 
after the bread comes out, or on a hot hearth. 

As soon as preserved fruit is entirely cold, it 
should be covered with either a carmel cover, or 
white paper cut the exact size of the pot or jar, 
that the fruit may be covered ; then dip the paper in a liquid, 
one part pepper-sauce, two parts brandy. Then an entire white 
paper tied down over the top, pricked full of holes, and the 
article mentioned that the pot contains, and the year made, &c. 
Jellies should be covered in the same way. 

A pan should be kept for preserving, of double block tin. 
A bow handle opposite the straight one for safety will do well ; 
skimmers, sieves, and spoons, should be kept on purpose for 
sweet things. If brass is ever used, it must be kept free from 
verdigris. 

To Clarify Sugar, 

Take half a pint of water to one pound of loaf sugar, set it 
over the fire to dissolve ; to twelve pounds of sugar thus pre- 
pared, beat uj) an egg very well, put in when cold, and, as it 
boils up, check it with a little cold water. The second time 



64 ■ CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

boiling, set it away to cool. In a quarter of an hour skim the 
top, and turn the syrup off quickly, leaving the sediment which 
will collect at the bottom. 

To Preserve Peaches. 

Take ripe free-stone peaches, pare, stone, and quarter them. 
To six pounds of the cut peaches allow three pounds of the 
best brown sugar. Strew the sugar among the peaches, and 
set them away in a covered vessel. Next morning put the 
whole into a preserving kettle, and boil it .slowly about an hour 
and three-quarters, or two hours, skimming it well. 

To Preserve Maspberries, 

Choose raspberries not too ripe, take the weight of them in 
sugar, wet the sugar with a little water, and put in the berries, 
boil them softly, take care not to break them ; when clear take 
them up, boil the syrup until it be thick enough, then put them 
in again : do not put them away until cold. 

To Preserve Tomatoes. 

One pound of sugar to every pound of tomatoes ; and a 
quarter of a pint of water to each pound ; two lemons. 

Take the small plum-shaped yellow or red tomatoes, pour 
boiling water over- them, and peel off the skins. Make the 
syrup of an equal weight of sugar and a quarter of a pint of 
water to each pound ; set it over the fire. When the sugar is 
dissolved and boiling hot, put in the tomatoes, let them boil 
very gently, and stir in two lemons boiled in water until the 
peels are tender, and cut into very thin slices; let it boil until 
the fruit is clear throughout, and the syrup rich. Then place 
the tomatoes on flat dishes, and set them to become cold. Boil 
the syrup until very rich and thick, and then set it to cool and 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 65 

settle. Put the tomatoes into jars or pots, pour the syrup over 
them free from any sediment, or strain it through musUn. 
Cover them over as directed, and keep them in a dry place. 

To Preserve Quinces. 

Pare and core your quinces, put them into a kettle, cover 
them with the parings and cores, fill up with spring water, and 
let them boil untU they are a pink color ; take out the quinces, 
strain the liquor through a bag, and set it away for quince 
jelly; make a syrup of loaf sugar, pound for pound, boil the 
quinces in it two hours, slowly, frequently putting them under 
the liquor ; after taking them out let the liquor boil until it is 
reduced to a syrup. 

To Preserve Plums, 

TIME, THEEE-QUARTERS OP AN HOUR. 

To every pound of fruit allow three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar. 

Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put the fruit on 
a dish with pounded sugar strewed over ; the next day put them 
in a preserving pan, and let them simmer gently by the side of 
the fire for about thirty minutes, then boil them quickly, remov- 
ing the scum as it rises, and keep them constantly stirred, or 
the jam will stick to the bottom of the pan. Crack the stones 
and add the kernels to the preserve when it boils. 

To Preserve Pears, 

TIME, SIX OR SEVEN HOURS. 

Three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar to each pound of 
pears ; peel of a lemon. 

Weigh the pears when pared, and put three-quarters of a 
pound of loaf sugar to a pound of fruit ; add the peel of a small 
lemon cut very thin, and just water enough at the bottom of 



66 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

the stew-pan to prevent the fruit burning; stew it gently for 
six or seven hours, and it will keep good for three months. 

A few drops of cochineal may be added, which will improve 
the color, and the pears may be served in a glass dish or to 
garnish rice. 

To Preserve Green Gages, 

m 

Choose the largest, when they begin to soften; split them 
without paring, and strew a part of the sugar of which you 
have previously weighed an equal quantity. Blanch the kernels*- 
with a small sharp knife. Next day pour the syrup from the 
fruit, and boU it with the other sugar, six or eight minutes, but 
very gently ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer 
tUl clear, taking off any scum that rises: put the fruit singly 
into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If you 
would candy it, do not add the syrup ; some may be done 
each way: 

To Preserve Strawberries, 

Get the largest strawberries before they are too ripe; have 
the best loaf sugar, one pound to each of strawberries — stew 
them very gently, taking them out to cool frequently, that they 
may not be mashed; when they look clear, they are done 
enough. 

To Preserve Cherries, 

One pound of sugar to every pound of cherries ; and three 
tablespoonsful of red currant juice. 

Lay some pounded sugar at the bottom of the preserving 
pan, and place some cherries on it, then another layer of sugar, 
then of cherries, repeating this until all are in, leaving out a 
little of the sugar to strew in as they boil ; add three spoonsful 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 67 

of currant juice to eacli pound of fruit, and set it over a clear 
fire. Boil tliem quickly, shaking them round frequently to 
prevent their burning, but do not stir them. Take off the 
scum as it rises, and when the syrup is thick and they look 
clear, put them into pots, and when cold cover them over. 

To Preserve Whole or Half Quinces. 

Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the fliirest 
golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and not pared, but wiped 
clean. Boil them very quick, close covered, till the water be- 
comes 3, thick jelly; then scald the quinces. To every pint 
of pippin jelly put a pound of the finest sugar; boil it, and 
skim it clear. Put those quinces that are to be done whole 
into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast ; and those that 
are to be in htilves by themselves ; skim it, and when the fruit 
are clear, put some of the syrup into a glass to try whether it 
jellies before taking off the fire. The quantity of .quinces is 
to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a pound of jelly already 
boiled with the sugar. 

To Preserve Crab Apples. 

Siberian crabs need only be wiped. French crabs should be 
pared. Make a sjrrup by boiling two pounds of loaf sugar 
with a pint of good cider ; prick the apples with ' a needle, 
place them in the syrup, and simmer as slowly as possible until 
you think the crabs are done; place them carefully in jars or 
glasses ; reduce and skim the syrup until it is thick enough, 
and pour it upon the fruit ; cover with wetted skins. 

To Preserve MJiubarb and Orange. 

Six oranges ; one quart of rhubarb ; one pound and a half 
of loaf sugar. 



68 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Peel the oranges carefully, take away the white rind and the 
pips, slice the pulps into a stew-pan, with the peel cut very 
small, add one quart of rhubarb cut very fine, and from a 
pound to a pound and a half of loaf sugar. Boil the whole 
down in the way usual with all preserves. 

To Preserve Grapes in iBrandy for Winter Dessert, 

Grapes ; white sugar-candy ; brandy. 

Take some fine close bunches of grapes, prick each twice 
with a fine needle, and lay them carefully in jars, cover the 
grapes thickly over with pounded sugar-candy, and then fill up 
the jars with good brandy. Tie the jars tightly over with a 
bladder, and set them in a cool dry place. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



69 



mmm 




To Pickle PeacJies, 



TIME, EIGHT OR TEN DATS. 



E ACHES ; one gallon of vinegar ; four pounds 
of brown sugar ; five or six cloves into each 
peach. 

Take some sound cling-stone peaches, re- 
move the down with a brush ; make the \'ine- 
gar hot, add to it the sugar, boil and skim it 
well, stick five or six cloves into each peach, 
then pour the vinegar boiling hot over them, 
cover them over, and set them in a cold place 
for eight or ten days ; then drain off the vinegar, make it hot, 
skim it, and again pour it over the peaches, let them become 
cold, then put them into glass jars, and secure them as for 
preserves. 



To Pickle Plutns like Olives, 

TIME, TWENTY-FOUR HOURS. 

Green plums ; vinegar ; mustard seed, and salt. 

Make a pickle of vinegar, mustard seed, and salt, make it 
boiling hot, then pour it over green plums, gathered before 
they begin to turn, or before the stone is formed ; let them 
stand all night, then drain off the vinegar, make it hot again, 
and pour it over the plums. When cold, cover them closely 
over. 



70 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Fickle Barberries, 

Take a quantity of barberries not over ripe, pick off the 
leaves and dead stalks, put them into jars with a large quan- 
tity of strong salt and water, and tie them down with a bladder. 
"When you see a scum rise on the barberries put them into 
fresh salt and water, cover them close and set them by for use. 

To Pickle Asparagus. 

Pour boilins: salt and water on, and cover them close— next 
day, take them out, dry them, and after standing in vinegar, 
put them with the yellow pickle. 

To Fickle Tomatoes. 

Cut a peck of green tomatoes in slices, and lay in a stone 
jar; cover with one pint of molasses. Skim when it ferments, 
and your pickles are made. This is good. 

To Fickle Onions. 

Onions ; vinegar ; ginger and whole pepper. 

Take some nice onions, peel and throw them into a stew-pan 
of boiling water, set them over the fire, and let them remain 
until quite clear, then take them out quickly, and .lay them 
between two cloths to dry. Boil some vinegar with the ginger 
and whole pejiper, and when cold, pour it over the onions in 
.glass jars, and tie them closely over. 

To Fickle Med Cabbage. 

To one quart of vinegar, one ounce of whole pepper. 

Remove the coarse leaves from some red cabbage, and wipe 
them very clean ; cut them in long thin slices or shreds, and 
put them on a large sieve, well covering them with salt, and 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 71 

let them drain all night; then put them into stone jars, and 
pour over them some boiling vinegar and whole peppers ; cover 
them over, and set them by for use. 

To PicMe French Beans and Radish Fods, 

Gather them while quite small and tender. Keep them in 
salt and water, till you get through collecting them — changing 
the water as often as once in four or five days. Then scald 
them with hot salt and water, let them lie in it till cool, then 
turn on hot vinegar spiced with pepper-corns, mace and all- 
spice. The radish top, if pickled in small bunches, are a pretty 
garnish for other pickles. 

To Make Green Fickles, 

Put the articles you intend to pickle, in a pot — and cover 
them with boiling salt and water ; put a thick cloth on the 
top, and then a plate that will fit it — let it stand till the next 
morning, then pour off the salt and water, boil it again, and 
cover them as before; do this until your pickles are. a good 
green — then put them in plain cold vinegar, and at the end of 
a fortnight, put them up, as you do the yellow pickle. 

Spiced Fea^hes, 

Take nine pounds of good ripe peaches, rub them with a 
coarse towel and halve them. Put four' pounds of sugar and a 
pint of good vinegar in a preserving kettle with cloves, cinna- 
mon, and mace ; when the syrup is formed, throw in the 
peaches a few at a time, so as to keep them as whole as pos- 
sible. When clean take them out and put in more. Boil the 
syrup until quite rich, and then pour over the peaches. Pears, 
quinces, apples, and cherries may be spiced in the same 
manner. 



72 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 




Wine Sauce, 

AKE half a pint of good melted butter, sweeten 
it with about two ounces of sifted sugar, and 
then add to it very gradually two small wine" 
glasses of sherry and a little grated lemon or 
nutmeg. Keep stirring the sauce over the 
fire till it nearly boils, when either pour it 
over the pudding, or serve in a tureen. 

Med Wine Sauce* 

Simmer half a pint of red wine, and a quarter of a pound of 
loaf sugar, until the quantity is greatly reduced. Claret or 
home-made wine will do for this sauce. 



Sauce jLu Vin. 

Pour half a pint of wine upon the yolks of three eggs ; beat 
it together for ten minutes ; add sugar, grated lemon-peel, and 
cinnamon to your taste. Warm it, but do not let it come to a 
boil. 

JPlum JPudding Sauce. 

To four ounces of melted butter, or of thick arrow-root, add 
one ounce and a half of sherry, the same of brandy, and the 
same of curacoa (the latter may be omitted) ; sweeten to pal- 
ate, and add a little grated lemon peel and nutmeg. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 73 

Apple Sauce, 

TIME, TWENTY MINUTES. 

Pare, core, and cut iuto slices eight good boiling apples ; put 
them iuto a sauce-pan with sufficient water to moisten and pre-, 
vent them fi-om burning, boil them until sufficiently tender to 
pulp. Then beat them up smoothly with a piece of butter, 
and put sugar to your taste. 

Cranberry Sauce, 

A quart of cranberries are washed and stewed with sufficient 
water to cover them ; when they burst mix with them a pound 
of brown sugar and stir them well. Before you take them 
from the fire, all the berries should have bui'st. They will be 
jellied ■vvhen cold. 

Lobster Sauce, 

TIME, TEN MINUTES. 

One hen lobster with coral ; two-thirds of its weight of good 
cream ; oue-thii-d of fresh butter. 

Cut the flesh in small pieces, mix it up with two-thirds of 
good cream and one-third of fresh butter. 

No stock, fish-sauces, anchovies, or essences to be used. 

Oyster Sauce, 

TIME, FIVE MINUTES. 

One dozen of oysters ; half a teacupful of good gravy ; half 
a pint of melted butter. 

Stew the beards of the oysters in their own juice with half a 
teacupful of good clear gi-avy ; strain it off, add it to the melted 
butter — which should be ready — put in the oysters, and let 
them simmer gently for three minutes. 



74 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Maitre iVHotel Sauce. 

TIME, ONE MINUTE TO SIMMER. 

Half a pint of melted butter ; one teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley ; one lemon ; Cayenne and salt to taste. 

Melt the butter, add to it the strained juice of a lemon, the 
parsley and seasoning, and let it just boil. 

Mint Sauce for Moast Lamb, 

Two tablespoonsful of green mint ; one tablespoonful of 
pounded sugar, and a quarter of a pint of vinegar. 

Pick and wash the green mint very clean, chop it fine, mix 
the sugar and vinegar in a sauce tui'een, put in the mint, and 
let it stand. 

Caper Sauce 

Is made by mixing a sufficient quantity of capers, and add- 
ing them to the melted butter, with a little of the liquor from 
the capers; where cajjers cannot be obtained, pickled nastur- 
tiums make a very good substitute, or even green pickle minced 
and put with the butter. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



75 



SAMl 




French Chicken Salad, 

HE remains of cold roast or boiled chicken, 
two lettuces, a little endive, one cucumber, a 
few slices of boiled beet-root. 

Trim neatly the remains of the chicken ; 
wash, dry, and slice the lettuces, and place in 
the middle of a dish ; put the pieces of fowl 
on the top, and pour the salad dressing over 
them. Garnish the edge of the salad with 
hard boiled egg cut in rings, sliced cucumber, 
and boiled beet-root cut in slices. Instead of cutting the eggs 
in rings, the yolks may be rubbed through a hair sieve, and 
the whites chopped very finely, and arranged on the salad in 
small bunches, yellow and white alternately. This should not 
be made long before it is wanted for table. 

American CliickerC' Salad. 

Take a fine white bunch of celery (four or five heads,) 
scrape and wash it white, reserve the delicate green leaves; 
shred the white part like straws, lay this in a glass or white 
china dish, in the form of a nest. Mince all the white meat 
of a boiled or white stewed fowl, without the skin, and put it 
in the nest. 

Make a salad dressing thus : rub the yolks of two hard 
boiled eggs to a smooth paste, with a dessertspoonful of saJad 



76 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

oil or melted butter ; add to it two tcaspoonsful of made mus- 
tard, and a small teaspoouful of fine white sugar, and put to it 
gradually (stirring it in), a large cup of strong vinegar. 

Lobster Salad, 

Break up a lobster, obtaining as much of the flesh as possible, 
which cut into slices, have likewise two hard boiled eggs also in 
slices, two anchovies filleted, and two cabbage lettuces, or any 
other salad cut up small ; mix the whole well together in a 
basin, season with half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a 
little pepper and salt, six spoonsful of salad oil and two of 
vinegar ; when well mixed, turn the whole into a salad bowl 
and serve. Crab may be dressed the same. 

Salade de Boeuf, 

Thinly slice some lean boiled salt • beef, cut it into sma,ll but 
long shaped pieces ; mix with it an equal quantity of cold 
boiled carrot sliced in rounds, and sauce it with a good remo- 
lade mixture. Garnish it with tufts of scraped horseradish 
and finely-shred shallot or onion. If you have one or two 
pickled capsicums, they are an improvement. 



AND GENEllAL GUIDE. 77 




NY of the things from the following list will, 
with the proper addition of herbs, roots, and 
seasoning, make a tureen of good soup for 
a small family : — 

One pound of lean meat. 
A wood-pigeon. 
A small rabbit. 
A sheep's or lamb's head. 
A chicken or old fowl. 
Two pounds of raw bones. 
A tame pigeon. 
A set of giblets. 

The reduced liquor in which has been boiled a calf's head, 
fowl, turkey, rabbit, joint of meat, etc., etc. 

The three kinds of stock mostly employed as a foundation 
for sOups are either composed of fish, vegetables, or butchers' 
meat. 

Soup a la Cardinal. 

Boil a fowl in water ; add to it half a pound of blanched 
rice, four ounces of butter, and some carrots cut in slices ; sea- 
son it with salt, let it boil two hours, mix well with it two 
ounces of butter ; then skim it carefully, and serve it with the 
best parts of the fowl in it. 



78 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Oyster Soup. 

Beard oysters enougli for tlie purpose you require ; make a 
fisli stock, properly seasoned and strained ; when this is boiling 
hot, put in the oysters, and thicken tlie soup with some beaten 
yolks of eggs ; or the oysters may, together with the eggs, be 
beaten in a mortar until they form a paste ; stir them into the 
soup, and add a little cream, or essence of anchovy, if approved 
of. Some epicures introduce a little macaroni, first stewed 
in stock. 

Clam Soup. 

Boil for three hours a knuckle of veal, with a goodly portion 
of water and one onion. Strain and add the liquor of fifty 
clams. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, well rubbed with 
butter, the size of a small egg. Have your clams cut in three 
pieces, with tlie hard rind removed. Beat the yolks of two 
eggs very light, and put into your tureen with chopped parsley 
and one-half pint milk. Just before serving, drop the clams 
into boiling soup, letting them boil up once. Pour into tureen, 
stirring well its contents while doing so. 

Common Vegetable Soup, 

Three potatoes, three turnips, three parsnips, and three car- 
rots, boiled in a gallon of water, with a handful of green peas, 
until reduced to nearly half the quantity ; add a little salt, and 
some weak stock, if thought requisite. 

Wliite Soup 3Iaigre. 

A FRENCH RECEIPT. 

Boil a cupful of vermicelli, with a little mace and some salt, 
in a quart of water, till the vermicelli is very soft ; whisk up 
the yolks o Ahree eggs in the soup tureen ; pour the vermicelli 
and water on the eggs, and mix them all well together. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 79 

Pea Sou2). 

Soak tlie peas over night ; next morning boil them an hour, 
adding a little saleratus ; then change the water and add a 
pound of salt pork ; boil until perfectly soft. 

Maccaroni Soup. 

To a rich beef or other soup, in which there is no seasoning 
other than pepper or salt, take half a pound of small pipe mac- 
caroni, boil it in clear water until it is tender, then drain it 
and cut in pieces of an inch length, boil it for fifteen minutes 
in the soup and serve. 

Noodle Soup, 

Take two eggs and a little fine flour, and make a thick, con- 
sistent dough, kne|id it well and roll it out thin, let it remain a 
few minutes to get dry, and then cut it into fine strips. Cut 
the strips of proper length and put them in boiling soup, allow 
them to cook sufficiently, and then serve. 

Beef Tea. 

This is the simplest of all soups, being but a pound or two 
of shin of beef cut in small pieces, and gently stewed, with a 
little salt, in a pint of cold water to each pound of meat, with- 
out either vegetables or spice, for three hours. It is generally 
served in a basin, with toasted bread. 

Ox Tail Soup, 

Two tails, if properly stewed, will make soup without any 
addition of meat ; they must be cleaned and cut into pieces, 
and boiled very quietly for several hours in water ; put in a 
crust of bread and a little salt. When tender the liquor must 



80 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

be strained and tlic fat removed ; tliickcn it witli a little cream, 
and put in two tablespoonsful of ketcliup ; serve up with the 
tails cut iu pieces. Calves' taUs can he used instead of ox 
tails. 

Veal Broth, 

Stew a small knuckle, with two ounces of rice, a blade of 
mace, and some salt, in three quarts of water, until reduced 
one-half. 

Fei)per-JPot, 

This is composed of equal parts of fish, flesh, and fowl. Cut 
small some lean beef or mutton, the flesh of a fowl, and the 
meat from a lobster ; and what vegetables- you fancy, and a 
small quantity of rice, or pulse of any kind. Pour in suflS.cient 
"water, and do very slowly, keeping it well gkimmed. When 
the meat, etc., is tender, season with Cayenne pepper and salt. 
Very small dumplings may be served in the tureen with it. 

Tripe may be used instead of fish, flesh, and fowl. 

Chicken Uroth. 

TIME, ONE HOUR. 

Cut up a chicken, put to it the cold water, or weak broth, a 
tablespoonful of salt, half a teacupfnl of barley (or rice if pre- 
ferred) ; cover it close and let it simmer for an- hour, skim it 
clear, and add pepper to your taste. The chicken may be 
placed on a dish with pieces of butter over it, a dust of pej)per, 
and served with mashed potatoes. 

Mice or Barley Soup. 

Put the rice into plenty of cold water ; when it boUs throw 
in some salt, let it simmer ten minutes, drain it, throw it into 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 81 

the boiling soup, and simmer it gently for a few minutes 
longer. 

Crveen Turtle Soup. 

Cut the head off the turtle the day before you dress it, and 
place the body so as to drain it well from blood ; then cut up 
in the following manner : divide the back, belly, head, and 
fins, from the intestines and lean parts ; take care to cut the 
gall clean out without breaking ; scald in boiling water the first 
named parts so as to take off the skin and shell ; cut them in 
neat square pieces and throw them into cold water ; boil the 
back and belly in a little water long enough to extract the 
bones easily, then make good stock of a leg of veal, a slice of 
ham, and the flesh of the inside of the turtle ; let it do away 
until it is browned, then fill it up with water, and the liquor 
and bones of the boiled turtle. Season with sliced lemon, 
whole pepper, a bunch of parsley, a leek sliced, and salt to 
taste. Let it boil slowly for four hours, then strain it to the 
pieces of the back, belly, head, and fins of the turtle (take the 
bones from the fins) ; add to it half a pint of Madeira wine 
and quarter of a pound of fresh sweet butter, with a table- 
spoonful of flour worked into it, and a lemon sliced thin ; let 
it boil gently for two hours, then serve. 

In cutting up the turtle, the fat should be taken great care 
of; it should be separated and cut in neat pieces, and stewed 
tender in a little of the soup, and put into the tureen when 
ready to serve. 

Mock Turtle Soup, 

A fine calf's head, cut the meat clean from the bones, then 
boil the bones in water; season with Cayenne, nutmeg, and 
mace ; pour into the gravy a pint of Madeira wine, with a 
little parsley and thyme. 



82 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



flilfABLlI 




LL vegetables ought to be carefully wasted 
and picked, and laid in cold water before 
being cooked. When boiled they should 
have plenty of water. Care should be taken 
not to overdo them, as it spoils their color, 
and deprives them of their crispness. They 
ought to be put into boiling water with a 
handful of salt in it, and when they begin 
to sink it is a sign that they are sufficiently 
done ; if the water has not been allowed to 
slacken in the boiling, they should, when taken up, be drained 
immediately, or they will lose their color. Hard water destroys 
the color of those vegetables that should look green. A piece 
of soda, about the size of a bean, put into a pot holding two 
gallons of water, in which the vegetables are to be boiled, will 
keep them of a beautiful green color. The lid of the pot 
should be left off while boiling. 

To Broil Potatoes, 

Parboil, then slice and boil them. Or parboil, and then set 
them whole on the gridiron over a very slow fire, and when 
thoroughly done send them up with their skins on. This last 
way is practised in many Irish families. 

To Roast Potatoes, 

Half boil, take off the thin peel, and roast them of a beauti- 
ful brown. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 83 

To Fry Potatoes, 

Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry them, either in 
butter or thin batter. 

Saratoga Potato Cliips, 

Wash and pare off the skins of two or three or more large 
potatoes, and when you have done this, go on paring them, 
cutting them as thin and as evenly as possible in ribbons nearly 
an inch wide ; throw these into boiling fat, let them take a 
nice light color, drain them well before the fire, and serve im- 
mediately (or they lose their crispness), piled high on a napkin. 
They may be sent in with game in the third course. 

To Mash Potatoes. 

Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them .to paste ; then 
to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little 
salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. 
Either serve them in this manner, or place them on the dish 
in a form, and then brown the top with a salamander, or in 
scallops. 

Puree of Potatoes, 

Mash the potatoes, and mix them while quite hot with some 
fine white veal gravy, and thicken with butter or cream. The 
pur6e should be about the consistency of apple sauce. 

Potato Palls, 

Mash the potatoes very nicely, make them into balls, rub 
them over with the yolk of an egg, and put them into the oven 
or before the fire to brown. These balls may be varied by the 
introduction of a third part of grated meat. 



84 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Fotatoes with JBacon, 

Cook the potatoes well, peel them, cut them into small pieces 
and fry them a light brown ; meantime, cut a small piece of 
tender cooked bacon into small pieces, and mis with the pota- 
toes ; fry a short time longer and serve. 

Potatoes Mashed tvith Onions. 

Prepare some onions by putting them through a sieve, and 
mix them with potatoes; in proportioning the onions to the 
potatoes, you will be guided by your wish to have more or less 
of their flavor. 

Oyster Potato Palls: 

This is a very palatable dish for suppers, and its production 
being so very simple, it only requii-es to be pointed out to 
become popular. 

Beard a doze^x (more or less, according to the number you 
provide for) small plump oysters, cover them singly with the 
plain mashed potato paste, roll them with flour, or beaten-up 
egg and bread-crumbs, into balls, and fry them in butter or 
dripping. 

Put into each ball when you maLe it up a teaspoonful of 
the oyster liquor. 

Sweet Potatoes Stewed, 

Wash and wipe them, and if they be large, cut them in two 
lengths; put "them at the bottom of a stew-pan, lay over some 
slices of boiled ham ; and on that, one or two chickens cut up 
with pepper, salt, and a bundle of herbs ; pour in some water, 
and stew them till done, then take out the herbs, serve the 
stew in a deep dish — thicken the gravy, and pour over it. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 85 

Baked Sweet or Wliite Potatoes, 

Clean, sA-ub, and dry carefully some large ones, and bake 
tlieni in the oven of your range, or in what I have lieard called 
tlie "American Dutcli," before the fire ; if very large, they 
may be parboiled before being put in the oven. With a pat 
of fresh butter, and a little salt and pepper, they are worthy 
their great popularity. 

Spinach with G^ravy. 

Prepare the spinach nicely, put it into boiling water, and 
when sufficiently tender to be squeezed, strain it in a cullender, 
put it into cold water for a few minutes ; then put a small 
quantity in a towel and press it, so as to form balls ; lay these 
upon the board, chop them very fine, fry them with butter, 
and then add some strong gravy, and boil. 

Beignets of Spinach, 

Take some washed and picked spinach ; mix the yolks of 
four eggs, some butter, and four ounces of sugar, with some 
bread-crumbs ; add this to the chopjDed spinach, form it into 
round cakes, and fry them in butter. 

Carrots a la 3Iaitre d' Motel. 

Boil the carrots tender, put a piece of butter into a stew-pan 
with a little flour ; when it is browned add a little gravy ; then 
put in the carrots and let them stew a little. Turnips can be 
done the same way, only they do not require so much gravy. 

Carrots — American Style, 

Require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe oif the 
skin after they are boiled ; when old, boU them with the salt 
meat, and scrape them first. 



86 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Cauliflowers, 

Cut off the stalks, boil the cauliflower in milk and water 
until it is tender, make a drawn butter and serve over it, or 
put bits of butter over, strew pepper over and sei-ve hot. 

CauUfiower in WJiite Sauce. 

Half boil it ; then cut it into handsome pieces and lay them 
in a stew-pan, with a little broth seasoned with salt, let them 
simmer half an hour; have mixed some cream, butter and 
flour, which add to it. 

ArtichoTces. 

Soak them in cold water, wash them well, then put them 
into plenty of boiling water, with a handful of salt, and let 
them boil gently till they are tender, which will take an hour 
and a half or two hours ; the surest way to know when they 
are done enough, is to draw out a leaf; trim them, and drain 
them on a sieve, and send up melted butter with them. 

Fricassee of Parsnips, 

Boil a few parsnips in milk until they are soft ; then cut 
them lengthwise into bits two or three inches long, and simmer 
in a white sauce, made of two spoonsful of broth and half a 
cupful of cream, a bit of butter, some flour and salt. 

Mashed Parsnips, 

Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them in a stew-pan 
with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and some salt. 

Fried Parsnips. 

TIME, ONE HOUR TO OXE HOUR AND A HALF. 

Parsnips, butter and pejiper. 

Boil the parsnips until they are tender, then skin them, and 
cut them in slices lengthwise of a quarter of an inch in thick- 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 87 

ncss; fry them in boiling butter or beef dripping. "Wlien 
one side is brown, turn them over to brown the other ; then 
put them on a dish and dredge them with a little pepper. 
Servo them with fried or roast meat. 

r Turnips and Rutabagas, 

White turnips require about as much boiling as potatoes. 
When tender, take them up, peel and mash them — season 
them with a little salt and butter. Yellow turnips require 
about two hours boiling — if very large, split them in two. 
The tops of white turnips make a good salad. 

White Turnips, 

Peel off half an inch of the stringy outside — full grown 
turnips will take about an hour and a half gentle boiling ; try 
them with a fork, and when tender, take them up, and lay 
them on a sieve till the water is thoroughly drained from them j 
send them up whole ; to very young turnips, leave about two 
inches of green top ; the old ones are better when the water 
is changed as directed for cabbage. 

Peas, 

-^ Peas should be put into boiling water, with salt and saleratus, 
in the proportion of a quarter of a teaspoonful of saleratus to a 
half a peck of peas. Boil them from fifteen to thii-ty minutes, 
according to their age and kind. When boiled tender, take 
them out of the water with a skimmer, salt and butter them to 
the taste. Peas to be good should be fresh gathered, and not 
shelled till just before they are cooked. 

Crreen Peas. 

TOLIERIES' RECEIPT. 

Stew the peas in butter, they will produce a juice of them- 
selves ; after stewing a little, dredge a little fine meal, and 



88 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

moisten with ricli brotli ; add sugar and salt to your taste, and 

let tte whole stew well. Before serving, add a little milk, and 

let it cook for an instant. They are usually served with roast 
fowls. 

Peapods Stewed. 

Take the sugar-pea when young, pare off the outer edges of 
the pods, carefully removing the strings ; then put them into 
good gTavy, and thicken with a little butter and flour ; and let 
them stew gently until quite tender. 

To Dress Beans. 

Boil tender with a bunch of parsley, which must be chopped 
to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to 
eat with, but not boUed with them. 

French Scans. 

String and cut them into four or eight ; the last looks best. 
Lay them in salt and water ; and when the sauce-pan boils, 
put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve 
them immediately, to preserve the green color. 

Shelled Heans. 

Wash in several waters, and put them in a basin with boil- 
ing water. BoU one hour. Do not drain them very dry. 
Season with butter and salt. 

Fricasseed Beans, 

When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them 
in a white sauce, ready hot ; just heat them through in it, and 
serve. If they are not of a fine green, do not use them for 
the dish. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 89 

Kidney Seans Boiled, 

String them, slit them down the middle, and cut them 
across ; let them stand some time in salt and water; boil them 
and when tender they are done. Serve with melted butter. 

Lima Scans. 

Lay a quart of shelled Lima beans in cold water for one 
hour, then put them into a stew-pan and pour boiling water 
over to cover them, cover the stew-pan and let it boU fast for 
half an hour ; then take one between your finger and thumb, 
if it will mash easily, it is done ; drain off nearly all the water? 
add a small teacup of butter, a teaspoonful of salt, and a little 
pepper ; cover them for a few minutes over the fire, then 
serve hot. 

Egg Plant. 

Cut an egg plant in thin slices, pare ofi" the purple rind, then 
strew each slice with salt, and lay them together on a plate, 
placed slanting that the liquor which exudes may run off, after 
an hour rinse the slices, wipe them dry, dip each slice in batter 
or flour, and fry a nice brown, turning them that each side 
may be a nice brown, fiy in seasoned fat or lard, or sweet 
butter. 

Saked Tomatoes — American, 

TIME, NEARLY ONE HOUR. 

Five or six tomatoes ; a saltspoonful of salt ; half as much 
of pepper ; a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg. 

Wash five or six smooth tomatoes ; cut a small piece from 
the stem end, and put a little salt, pepper, and a piece of butter 
the size of a nutmeg in each, place them in a dish, and bake 
them in a moderate oven for neai-ly an houi". Serve them 
up hut. 



90 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Stew Tomatoes. 

Take off tlie skin, and put them in a pan with salt, pepper, 
and a large piece of butter; stew tliem till sufficiently dry. 

To Scollop Tomatoes. 

Peel off tlie skin from large, full, ripe tomatoes — put a layer 
in the bottom of a deep dish, cover it well with bread grated 
fine ; sprinkle on pepper and salt, and lay some bits of butter 
over them — put another, layer of each, till the dish is full — 
let the top be covered with crumbs and butter — bake it a nice ' 
brown. 

Boiled Green Corn. 

Trim off the husks and silk ; throw it into hot water, and 
let it boU half or three-quarters of an hour, according to the 
size of the ear. The sweet or sugar corn is the best for this 
purpose. It should never be boiled in salted water, as this 
makes it harder and comparatively indigestible. 

Moasted Green Corn. 

Remove the husks and lay the ears over red-hot coals on a 
gridiron. It is " not bad" roasted by laying the ears directly 
on burning coals, care being taken to turn them before they 
are burned injuriously. 

Succotash, 

This is usually made of green corn and garden beans, al- 
though string beans tare sometimes added. Cut the kernels of 
corn from the cob ; and stew them and the beans, closely 
covered, in water or milk, for about three-quarters of an hour. 
If a richer dish is wanted, stir in a little cream, and let the 
whole simmer for ten minutes longer. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 91 

Some persons string the beans, and then cut them into 
small pieces, before mixing and stewing — a plan only to be 
recommended to those who have abundance of time for " small 
things." 

Seets, 

Wash clean, but do not scrape ; if you do they will look 
white when cooked. When young they will cook in two 
hours ; but old ones will require four or five hours. When 
done, phinge them into cold water, and the skin will peel ofi" 
easily. Cut in thin slices, and lay in a flat dish. Serve with 
butter, pepper, and salt to taste. 

'Ficliled Beets, 

Cut the beets that are left from dinner into thin slices, and 
lay them in an earthen vessel, and cover with coTd vinegar and 
a few whole cloves. Keep in a cold place. 

Asparagus, 

Cut off the white part, wash and tie in small bunches, and 
put into a sauce-pan with boiling water enough to cover it, and 
a handful of salt. When young it will boil in twenty minutes ; 
if not tender, boil thirty. Dish on toast, and season with a 
little butter. 

To Stew Med Cabbage, 

Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage ; wash and put it 
into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs 
about it, and a piece of butter. Stew it till quite tender, and 
when -going to serve, add two or three spoonsful of vine^ 
gar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or 
with sausages on it. 



92 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Cabhagc ivith Onions. 

Boil them separately, and mix tliem in the proportions you 
like ; add butter, pepper, and salt, and either stew them, or fry 
them in a cake. 

To Soil Sprouts and Greens. 

Cabbage sprouts, young beet-tops, and the green leaves of 
young turnips, are boiled with salt meats, or in clear water, 
with a little salt. 

Onions, 

Peel and put them in boiling milk, (water will do, but it is 
not as good). When boiled tender, take them up, salt them 
and turn a little melted butter over them. 

To Stew Onions, 

Peel six large onions, fry gently of a fine brown, but do not 
blacken them; then put them into a small stew-pan, with a 
little weak gravy, pepper and salt; cover and stew two hours 
gently. They should be lightly floured at first. 

Stewed JilusJiroonis. 

Take some middling sized mushrooms, stew them well in a 
little clear brown gravy; when done add a little ketchup to 
them. 

Lettuce or Salad, 

Break the leaves apart one by one from the stalk and throw 
them into a pan of cold water, rinse them well, lay them into 
a salad bowl or a deep dish, lay the largest leaves first, put the 
next size upon them, then lay on the finest white leaves, cut 
hard boiled eggs in slices or quarters and lay them at equal 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 93 

distances around the edge and over the salad ; serve with vine- 
gar, oil, and made mustard in the castor. 

To Stew Celery, 

Wash six heads ; strip off the outer leaves ; cut into lengths 
of four inches ; put into a stew-pan, with a little broth or weak 
gravy ; stew till tender, then add cream, flour and butter ; season 
with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. 

To Stew Cucumbers. 

First slice them thick, then cut in half or divide them into 
two lengths ; stew some salt and pepper, and sliced onions, add 
a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly ; and 
before serving, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little 
flour, or if there was butter in, only a little flour. 

To Stew and Dress Squash. 

Cut the squash small, take ofi" the outside skin, and the 
inside strings and seeds ^ then put it into a stew-pan, with hot 
water to cover it, cover the stew-pan for half an hour or longer 
until they are tender, take them into a cullender with a skim- 
mer, press out the water, then take them into a dish and mash 
them perfectly smooth, add a good bit of butter, and pepper 
and salt to taste ; make it in a neat fonn the same as mashed 
turnips or potatoes ; but do not brown it ; put pepper over in 
spots, and garnish with sprigs of parsley, or celery leaves, if 
you wish it ornamental. 

Salsify, or Oyster Tlant, 

Scrape and wash the roots, put them into boiling water with 
salt ; when done, drain them, and place them in the dish with- 
out cutting them up. They are a very excellent vegetable, but 



94 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

require nicety in cooking ; exposure to the air, either in scraping 
or after boiling, will make them black. 

Excellent Sour Crout. 

Cut your cabbage heads in half, put them in a tub of clean 
fresh water for fifteen minutes, for the purpose of perfectly 
cleansing them from any flies or snails that may be sticking to 
them ; then cut in a large cutter, not too fine ; then place in 
your barrel with a sprinkling of salt ; then stamp each layer 
until the juice rises to the top. Cover with clean cabbage 
leaves ; cover with boards and place heavy weights thereon, 
and let it remain two or three weeks before using. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



95 



f lei AiB suit f IS] 



t/^-^^ 




HERE are general rules for choosing fish of 
most sorts. 

If the gills are red and fall, and the whole 
fish firm and stifi", it is good. 

If, on the contrary, the gUls are brownish, 
the eyes sunk, and the flesh flabby, they are 
stale. 

Fresh shad, haddock, and whiting are con- 
sidered by some persons better for salting a 
night before cooking. 
' Fresh water fish have often a muddy taste and smell, which 
may be got rid of by soaking in strong salt and water. 

Great care must be taken to see that the fish be properly 
cleaned before dressing; that is, they must be perfectly free 
from scales, and every particle of the inside scraped from the 
backbone ; but not washed beyond what is really necessaiy, as 
that diminishes the flavor of most fish. 

Great care and punctuality is necessary in cooking fish. If 
not done sufficiently, or if done too much, they are not good. 
They should be eaten as soon as cooked. For a garnish to the 
fish use parsley, a lemon, or eggs boiled hard, and cut in slices. 

Moasted Salmon, 

Take a large piece of fine fresh salmon, cut from the middle 
of the fish, well cleaned and carefully scaled. Wipe it dry in 
a clean coarse cloth. Then dredge it with flour, put it on the 



96 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

spit, and place it before a clear bright fire. Baste it witb fresh 
butter, and roast it well. Serve it up plain ; garnishing the 
dish with slices of lemon, as many persons like a little lemon- 
juice with salmon. 

JBroiled Salmon. 

Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt ; 
lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist 
the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six 
or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. 

Potted Salmon, 

Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it ; salt 
very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, 
then season with beaten mace, cloves and whole pepper ; lay in 
a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with 
butter, and bake it ; when well done, drain it from the gravy, 
put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified 
butter. 

In this manner you may do any firm fish. 

Fried Salmon. . 

Cut into steaks about an inch thick ; roll in a batter of eggs 
and flour, or cracker dust, and fry in lard or butter as may 
be preferred. 

Soiled Salmon. 

Boil the same as halibut, and serve with drawn butter. 

Soiled Halibut. 

Take a piece weighing four or five pounds, scrape the skin 
clean, di-edge flour over it, and boil according to its weight — 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 97 

ten minutes to a pound. Serve witK plain boiled potatoes, and 
drawn butter, or egg, or parsley sauce. Cold boiled halibut 
may be served the same as codfish ; any of the sauce which 
may remain may be put with the cold fish. 

Fried Malibut. 

Take a slice of halibut, sprinkle with salt, and dredge with 
flour. Fry four slices of salt pork, add to the pork fat one 
spoonful of lard. When boiling hot put in the halibut. Fry 
a light brown on one side, then turn and fry the same on the 
other. Serve the pork with it. 

Broiled Halibut, 

Grease the gridiron with a little butter, place the halibut 
upon it, sprinkle a little salt over it, and place over clear coals. 
Cook one side ten minutes, then turn and cook upon the other 
side ten more. Have the dish warm ; put the fish upon it, 
season with pepper and butter and send to the table. 

Smoked Malibut, 

Broiled the same as the fresh, omitting the pepper and salt. 
Smoked salmon cooked in the same way. 

Boiled Haddock. 

TIMK, A QUARTER TO HALF AN HOUR, ACCORDING TO SIZE. 

Two haddocks ; enough water to cover them ; a quarter of 
a pound of salt to each gallon of water. 

Clean the fish, and wash them thoroughly, they wUl require 
scraping first, then put them in the fish-kettle ; simmer them 
gently Serve with a garnish of sliced lemon and parsley. 

Sauce melted butter, or anchovy. 



98 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Fried Haddock. 

TIME, A QUARTER OF AN HOUR, OR EIGHTEEN MINUTES. 

Haddock ; egg ; bread crumbs ; a sprig of parsley ; a little 
lemon thyme ; a few chives ; pepper and salt. 

Haddocks of medium size are very nice cut open, covered 
with egg, bread crumbs, chives, parsley, and a little lemon 
thyme minced very fine, salt and pepper, and fried. 

Balced Haddock, 

TIME, FROM HALF AN HOUR TO AN HOUR. 

Thoroughly clean and dry the haddock, fill the inside with 
veal stufiing, sew it up, and curl the tail into its mouth. Brush 
it over with egg, and strew bread crumbs over it. Set it in a 
warm oven to bake for about half an hour. Serve it on a dish 
without a napkin, with any sauce you please, anchovy, melted 
butter, etc. 

Broiled Haddock, 

TIME, FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

Thoroughly clean and dry them in a cloth, rub them over 
with a little vinegar, and dredge them with flour. Rub some 
grease on the bars of the gridiron, put it over a clear fire, and 
when it is hot, place your fish on it ; turn them two or three 
times, and broil them a nice brown color. Serve them with 
shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter. 

Boiled Perch. 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR, IF LARGE. 

In season from September to November. 

Cut off the spines from the back, scrape off the scales with 
an oyster knife, and thoroughly clean and wash them. Then 
boil them in cold water very carefully, as they are a most deli- 
cate fish. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 99 

Fried Perch. 

TIME, TWELVE MINUTES. 

Some bread crumbs and egg. 

Tboroughly clean and scale the perch, brush them over with 
a well beaten egg, dip them into bread crumbs, and fry them a 
nice brown in boiling fat. Serve them with anchovy sauce or 
melted butter. 

White Perch a la Daub. 

BoU as many large white perch as will be sufficient for the 
dish ; do not take off their heads, and be careful not to break 
their skins ; when cold, place them in the dish, and cover them 
with savory jelly broken. A nice piece of rock-fish is excel- 
lent done in the same way. 

Soiled Trout. 

TIME, TWENTY TO THIRTY MINUTES. 

The fish ; one wineglassful of vinegar, water, salt, and a 
piece of horseradish. 

Rub and wipe the fish very dry, put them into a fish-kettle 
of boiling water with a wineglassful of vinegar, two table- 
spoonsful of salt, and a piece of horseradish. BoU them slowly 
for twenty minutes or half an hour, taking care that the skin 
is not broken, and serve them on a napkin with anchovy sauce 
or plain melted butter. 

Fried Trout. 

TIME, TWENTY MINUTi;^. 

One or two trout ; one egg ; bread crumbs ; one lemon. 

Thoroughly clean and remove the gills, brush them over 
with the yolk of a well beaten egg, dip them into bread crumbs 
and fry them in hot fat until of a fine brown. Serve with 
anchovy sauce, and garnish with sliced lemon. 



100 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Broiled Trout, 

TIME, FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

The trout ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; some salt ; one 
anchovy ; one tablespoonful of capers ; half a spoonful of vine- 
gar ; pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little flour. 

When you have thoroughly cleaned your fish, wipe it dry in 
a cloth, and tie it round with thread to preserve its shape 
entire. Then melt the butter with one tablespoonful of salt, 
and pour it over the trout till it is perfectly covered ; let it 
remain for two or three minutes, take it out, and put it on a 
gridiron over a clear fire, that it may do gradually. When 
done, lay it on a dish, and pour over it the sauce previously 
made, with an anchovy washed, boned, and cut up very small, 
a large spoonful of chopped capers, a" little pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg, half a spoonful of vinegar, and some melted butter. 
Boil it up for a few minutes and pour it over your fish. 

To Boil a Shad, 

Get a nice fat shad, fresli from, the water, that the skin may 
not crack in boiling, put it in cold water on a slice, in a kettle 
of proper length, with a wineglass of pale vinegar, salt, a little 
garlic, and a bundle of parsley ; when it is done, drain all the 
water from the fish, lay it in the dish, and garnish with scraped 
horseradish ; have a sauce boat of nice melted butter, to mix 
with the difiierent ketchups, as taste shall direct. 

To Boast a Shad, 

FUl the cavity with good forcemeat, sew it up, and tie it on 
a board of proper size, cover it with bread crumbs, with some 
salt and pepper, set it before the fire to roast ; when done on 
one side, turn it, tie it again, and when sufiiciently done, pull 
out the thread, and serve it up with butter and parsley poured 
over it. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 101 

To Broil a Shad. 

Separate one side from the back-bone, so that it will lie, 
open without being split in two ; wash it clean, dry it with a 
cloth, sprinkle some salt and pepper on it, and let it stand till 
you are ready to broil it ; have the gridiron hot and well 
greased, broil it nicely, and pour over it melted butter. 

To Bake Shad, 

Lay the fish in a deep pan, putting its tail to its mouth ; 
bake two hours, pour the gravy round it, and send it to the 
table ; any fish may be baked in this way ; the fish should be 
stufied with fi^rcemeat made of bread crumbs, butter, chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt. 

To Sinohe Herrings, 

TIME, TWENTY-FOUR HOURS. 

Clean and lay some fresh herrings in salt and a little salt- 
petre for one night ; then run a stick through their eyes, and 
hang them in a row. Put some saw-dust into an old cask, and 
in the midst of it a heater red hot ; hang the stick on which 
you have threaded the fish over the smoke, and let them remain 
for twenty-four hours. 

Fried Serrings, 

TIME, SIX OR EIGHT MINUTES. 

Clean and scale the fish, and dry them thoroughly in a cloth. 
When they are quite dry, fry them to a bright color. The 
herring, being so rich a fish, should be fried with less butter 
than fish of most kinds, and well drained and dried afterwards. 
A nice sauce to eat with herrings is sugar, mustard, and a 
little salt and vinegar. Some sei-ve melted butter, but herrings 
are too rich to eat with a rich sauce. Crisp parsley may be 
used as a garnish. 



102 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Sroiled Herrings. 

TIME, SIX OR EIGHT MINUTES. 

Herrings ; a spoonful of flour ; a quarter of a pint of table 
beer or ale ; a slice of onion ; six ounces of whole peppers ; one 
ounce of butter ; a spoonful of mustard. 

Clean and dry the fish, cut off tbeir beads, flour tbem and 
broil them. Break up the heads and boil them for a quarter 
of an hour in a little table beer or ale, with a little whole pepper 
and a slice of onion ; strain off the liquor, thicken it with 
butter and flour, beat mustard up with it, and serve it in a 
tureen to eat with the herrings. 

Broiled Mackerel. 

Split down the back and clean. Be careful to scrape all the 
thin black skin from the inside. Wipe dry and lay on the 
gridiron ; broil on one side a nice brown, then turn and brown 
the other side ; it will not take so long to brown the side on 
which the skin is. (All fish, should have the side on which 
the skin is turned to the fire last, as the skin burns easily, and 
coals are not so hot after you have used them ten minutes.) 
Season with butter, pepper and salt. 

Fried MacTcerel, 

Fry brown six good-sized slices of pork. Prepare your 
mackerel as for broiling. Take out your pork, sprinkle a little 
salt over the mackerel, then fry a nice brown. Serve the fried 
pork with it. 

3IacTcerel a la 3Iaitre d'Motel. 

Clean your mackerel, split it, soak it for an hour or more in 
oil seasoned with salt, grill it, brush it over with the oil, and 
serve very hot. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE, 103 

To Dress Fresh Sturgeon, 

Cut slices, rub egg over tliem, then sprinkle with crvimbs of 
bread, parsley, pepper, salt; fold them in paper, and broil 
gently. 

Sauce : butter, ancliovy and soy. 

To Moast Sturgeon, 

Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; baste it con- 
stantly with butter ; and serve with good gravy, an anchovy, 
a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. 

To Boil Sturgeon 

Soak the fish in salt and water four hours, remove it, let it 
drain an hour, then put it into boiling water, let it be well 
covered, add three onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, and a small 
quantity of bay-salt. When it is boiled so tender that the 
bones will separate readily, remove it from the fire, take away 
bones and skin, cut it into slices, dredge it with flour, brown 
it before the fire, and serve with a gravy, the same as given 
above for roasting. 

Sturgeon Broiled, 

Cut a fine piece of the fish, and skinning it, divide it into 
slices. Beat up three eggs, and dip each of the slices into 
them; powder fine bread crumbs mixed with finely-chopped 
parsley, pepper and salt over them, fold them in paper, and 
broU them, being careful that the fire is clear. Send them to 
table with essence of anchovies and soy, accompanied by cold 
butter. 

Cod, 

Some people boil the cod whole ; but a large head and 
shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner 



104 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

parts being overdone and tasteless, before tbe thick are ready. 
But the whole fish may be j^urchased at times more reasonably ; 
and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high 
perfection in one or two days. Or it may be made Salter, and 
served with egg-sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. 

Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh 
it is watery ; but eats excellently if salted and hung up for a 
day to give it firmness, then stuffed and broiled, or boiled. 

A good sauce for cod may be made thus : Boil four, eggs 
hard, first half chop the whites, then put in the yolks, and 
chop them both together, but not very small ; put them into 
half a pound of good melted butter, and let it boil up — then 
pom* it on the fish. 

To Dress Cod Sounds, 

Steep your sounds as you do the salt cod, and boil them in 
a large quantity of milk and water ; when they are very tender 
and white, take them up, and drain the water out and skin 
them ; then pour the egg sauce boiling hot over them, and 
serve them up. 

To Boil Salt Cod, 

Clean and soak over night in water, with a glass of vinegar; 
boil it well and break into flakes ; pour over a consistency of 
cream, thickened with flour and butter, and serve with egg 
sauce. 

To 3IaJce a Currie of Cod, 

It should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped 
or sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown 
with onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie- 
powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four sjjoonsful of rich 
cream, salt, and Cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 105 

To Malce Codfish Calces, 

First boil soaked cod, then cliop it fine, put to it an equal 
quantity of potatoes boiled and maslied ; moisten it with beaten 
eggs or milk, and a bit of butter and a little pepper ; form it 
in small round cakes ; flour the outside, and fry in hot lard or 
beef drippings until they are a delicate brown : like fish, these 
must be fried gently, the lai'd being boiling hot when they are 
jjut in. 

To Boil Mock Fisli. 

The best part of the rock is the head and shoulders — clean 
it nicely, put it into the fish kettle with cold water and salt, 
boil it gently and skim it well ; when done, drain off the water, 
lay it in the dish, and garnish with scraped horseradish ; have 
two boats of butter nicely melted with chopped parsley, or for 
a change you may have anchovy butter ; the roe and liver 
should be fried and served in separate dishes. 

Steived Flounders, 

Procure four or six flounders, cut each in halves, put half a 
pint of water in a sauce-pan, with a little scraped horseradish, 
a little pepper, salt, sugar and fresh parsley; place over the 
fire, boil a minute, then add the fiounders, stew ten minutes, 
take them out and place in a dish, reduce the liquor they were 
stewed in a little, pour over and serve. 

Fried Flounders, 

Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two 
hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg ; cover 
with crumbs and fry them. 

Eels, (I la Creine, 

After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage which 
runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves. 



106 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice ; put it into a small stew- 
pot, with very strong beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity 
of Madeira or sherry. 

It must be covered close ; stew till tender, then take out the 
lampreys and keep hot, while you boU up the liquor with two 
or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter ; strain 
the gravy through a sieve and add lemon-juice and some made- 
mustard. Serve with sippits of bread and horseradish. 

SaTced Eels, 

Prepare as for frying ; then put into a baking-pan, with a 
little water, flour, pepper, and salt. Bake twenty minutes. 
Make a gravy of the liquor in which they were baked, adding 
a little butter. 

Fried Eels, 

Skin them ; then turn on boiling water, and let them stand 
in it a few moments ; then cut them into pieces about three 
inches long. Fry a nice brown and serve. 

Fried Catfish, 

Skin your fish ; cut off the heads ; roll in flour or cracker 
dust, or in a batter of eggs and flour. Place in your frying- 
pan, in hot lard, season with pepper and salt, and fry a nice 
light brown. 

To Fry Black Fish. 

Scale the fish, and scrape the inside clean to the back bone, 
wash it in water, with a little vinegar; wipe it dry with a 
clean towel; then dip it iu wheat flour, or rolled crackers. 
Have in a thick bottomed frying-pan plenty of lard salted, (a 
large tablespoon of salt to a pound of lard,) let it become boil- 
ing hot ; then lay in the fish and fry it gently. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 107 

Sea Bass with Tomatoes, 

Take tbree large fine sea bass or black fish. Cut ofi" tbcir 
heads and tails, and fry the fish in plenty of lard till about 
half done. Have ready a pint of tomatoes, that have been 
pickled cold in vinegar flavored with a muslin bag of mixed 
spices. Drain the tomatoes well from the vinegar ; skin them, 
and mash them in a pan ; dredging them with about as much 
flour as would fill a large tablespoon heaped up. Pour the 
mixture over the fish while in the frying-pan ; and continue 
frying till they are thoroughly done. 

To Fry Soles. 

Skin them and cut off the fins, roll them in a cloth, dredge 
them with flour, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, shake 
bread crumbs over them, and fry them in boiling fat. 

A Fricassee of Soles, 

Fry them a nice brown, drain them, and make a few balls 
with a small sole boned and chopped, a little grated bread and 
lemon peel, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolk of 
egg, a piece of butter ; fry these ; thicken some good gravy 
(and some port wine, not too much) with a little flour, boil it 
up ; add Cayenne ketchup and lemon juice ; lay in the fish 
and balls, simmer them a few minutes, garnish with lemon. 

Saked Fike, 

Prepare the fish, let them dry for an hour, brush them over 
with an egg, cover one-half with butter, the other with bread 
crumbs, and bake them in hot butter. Perch can be done the 
same way, and so can many other fish. 



108 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Fry Smelts. 

They sliould not be washed more than is necessary to clean 
them. Dry them in a cloth ; then lightly flour them, but 
shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread 
crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of hoilmg 
lard ; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will 
make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off 
the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will 
be lost. 

Med Mullet, 

It is called the Sea- Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, 
fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in" a small dish. Make a 
sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of 
butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of 
sherry. Give it a boil ; and serve in a boat, and the fish in 
the jiaper cases. 

Tliomhack and Skate 

Should be hung one day at least before they are dressed ; and 
may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, being first 
dipped in egg. 

Crimp Skate, 

Boil and send up in a napkin ; or fry as above. 

JUaids. 

Should likewise be hung one day at least. They may be boiled 
or fried ; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled 
and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and covered 
with crumbs. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 109 

Boiled Carp. 

Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find 
directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. 

Stewed Carp. 

Scald and clean, take care of the roe, etc., lay the fish in a 
stew-pan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a des- 
sertspoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth 
part of the quantity of gi'avy or port (cider may do) ; simmer 
close covered : when nearly done add two anchovies chopped 
fine, a dessertspoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut 
ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour ; shake it, and let the 
gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, 
the roe fried, and a good deal of horseradish and lemon. 



110 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



SHELL fISI. 




Hoiv to Choose. 



^OBSTERS and crabs when they are light, they 
are poor and watery. They should be solid 
and heavy when good. This can be easily as- 
certained by comparison. 

Oysters and clams have the shells firmly 
closed. If they are in the slightest degree 
open, they are unfit for use. If opened and 
the liquor found to be stifi" and slimy they are 
stale ; but if perfectly good and sweet the liquor 
will be short and drip ofi" quickly from the shell or spoon. 



To Dress Lobsters, 

When the lobster is boiled, rub it oyer with a little salad- 
oil, which wipe ofi" again ; separate the body from the tail, 
break off the great claws, and crack them at the joints, without 
injuring the meat ; split the tail in halves, and arrange all 
neatly in a dish, with the body upright in the middle, and 
garnish with parsley. 



Lobster Fatties, 



Minced lobster, four tablespoonsfiil of bechamel, six drops of 
anchovy sauce, lemon juice, Cayenne to taste. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. Ill 

Line tlic patty-pans with puff paste, and put into each a 
small piece of bread ; cover with paste ; brush over with egg, 
and bake of a light color. Take as much lobster as is required, 
mince the meat very fine, and add the above ingredients ; stir 
it over the fire for five minutes ; remove the lids of the patty- 
, cases, take out the bread, fill with the mixture, and replace 
the covers. 

Lobster Sauce. 

The lobster being boiled, extract the meat from the shell, 
and beat it in a mortar. Rub it through a cullender or sieve, 
and put it into a sauce-pan with a spoonful of veloute (or vel- 
vet essence), if you have it, and one of broth. Mix it well, 
and add a piece of butter, some salt, and Cayenne pepper. 
Stew it ten minutes, and serve it up, with boiled fresh fish. 

Lobster Cutlets, 

One large lobster, one ounce fresh butter, half a saltspoonftil 
of salt, pounded mace, grated nutmeg, Cayenne and white pep- 
per to taste, egg, and bread crumbs. 

Buttered Lobster, 

Boil a lobster, then take the meat from the shell, and mince 
or chop it small ; put the coral and green inside if liked, 
(leave out what is called the lady,) to a wineglassful of vine- 
gar or hot water, and a quarter of a pound fresh butter ; add 
a saltspoonful of Cayenne pepper, and made mustard, if liked ; 
and put it with the lobster in a stew-pan over a gentle fire j 
stir it until it is thoroughly heated throughout. Serve hot ; 
serve with lettuce in a salad-bowl ; garnish with hard boDed 
egg : serve rolls with it. — For supper or a second course din- 
ner dish. 



112 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Steiv Lobsters. 

TIME, TWENTY MINUTES. 

Pick tlie meat from one large, or two small hen lobsters in 
large j^ieces ; boil the shells in a pint of water with a blade of 
mace and some whole pepper corns ; when all the strength is 
extracted from the shells and spice, strain the liquor, mix the 
coral and the rich pai't of the lobster with a few spoonsful of 
melted butter, a wineglass of white wine, and the juice of half 
a lemon strained. Put in the picked lobster, boU it up and 
serve. 

Scalloped Lobster, 

TIME, FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

Pick out all the meat from one large; or two middling-sized 
lobsters, and pound it in a mortar with a little pepper, salt, 
Cayenne, and a spoonful or more of white sauce, or thin melted 
butter, sufficient to moisten it. Split the empty shells of the 
tails and the bodies, and fill each of them- neatly with the 
pounded lobster, cover them with grated bread, and put them 
into an oven. Serve on a folded napkin with fried parsley. 
Six or seven divided shells will be sufficient for a dish. 

Uroiled Lobsters. — An American JReceipf. 

TIME, FIFTEEN OR TWENTY MINUTES. 

After having boiled the lobster, split it from head to tail. 
Take out the uneatable part called the " lady," lay it open, put 
pieces of butter over the meat, sprinkle it with pepper, and set 
the shells on a gridiron over bright coals until nicely heated 
through. Serve in the shells. 

Crabs a la Husse. 

Boil them from half to an hour, with a little salt ; when done 
wipe dry, and take off the shell ; take out the blue veins, and 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 113 

what is called the lady -fingers, as they are unwholesome ; send 
to the table cold, garnish with meltod butter. 

Devilled Crabs, 

Remove the meat from the shell, mix it with bread crumbs 
— about one-fourth will be sufficient ; add white pepper, salt, a 
little Cayenne, grated nutmeg, and half a dozen small lumps 
of butter, each about the size of a nut ; this last ingredient 
should be added to the fish after it has been returned to the 
shell. Squeeze lemon juice over it, lay a thick coat of bread 
crumbs over all, and bake. 

Cold Dressed Crab, 

Empty the shells and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, salt, 
and a little white pepper and Cayenne ; then put the mixture 
into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is necessary. 

Clam, Soup, 

Take fifty large, or one hundred small sand clams, and their 
liquor from the shells ; strain the liquor ; add to it a quart of 
milk and water each ; if the clams are large, cut each in two 
and put them into it ; set them over a moderate fire until the 
clams are tender, (about one hour,) skim it clear ; put to it 
half a pound of soda crackers broken small, or half a pound of 
butter crackers rolled fine ; cover, the pot for ten minutes, then 
add quarter of a pound of sweet butter and serve hot. 

To Fry Soft Shell Clams, 

Get them from the shell, as they are very troublesome to 
clean. Wash them in plenty of water, and lay them on a 
thickly folded napkin to dry out the water ; then roll a few at 



114 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

a time into wheat floui', until they will take up no more. Have 
a thick bottomed frying-pan, one-third full of boiling hot lard, 
and salted ; (in proportion, a tablespoonful of salt to a pound 
of lard,) lay the clams in with a fork, one at a time ; lay them 
close together and fry gently, until one side is a delicate brown, 
then turn carefully and brown the other ; then take them off 
on a hot dish. "When fried properly, these clams are very 
excellent. 

To Stetp Soft Shell Clams. 

Gret fifty clams taken from their shells, and freed from the 
black skin ; wash them well in clear water and put them in a 
stew-pan with very little water ; cover, and set it over a gentle 
fire for half an hour ; then add to them a bit of butter the 
size of a large egg or larger ; dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, 
and salt and pepper to taste ; stir it in them ; cover the stew- 
pan for ten minutes, then serve hot. Many persons, like the 
addition of a wineglass of vinegar. 

Soiled Clams. — Boston Style, 

"Wash them clean, put them in a cooking vessel, with a little 
water, boil until the shells open ; then remove the shells, cook 
in the same water, adding salt, pepper, and a good quantity of 
butter; when done, lay in a tureen, and eover with a few 
slices of toast bread. 

To Fry Oysters— Washington Style* 

Take a quarter of a hundred of large oysters, wash them 
and roll them in grated bread, with pepper and salt, and fry 
them a light brown ; if you choose, you may add a little parsley, 
shred fine. They are a proper garnish for calves' head, or 
most made dishes. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 115 

To Make Oyster Loaves* 

Take little round loaves, cut off the tops, scrape out all the 
crumbs, then put the oysters into a stew-pan with the crumbs 
that came out of the loaves, a little water, and a good lump of 
butter ; stew them together ten or fifteen minutes, then put in 
a spoonful of good cream, fill your loaves, lay the bit of crust 
carefully on again, set them in the oven to crisp. Three are 
enough for a side dish. 

To Fry Oysters. 

Make a batter, wipe the oysters dry, dip them in the batter 
and roll them in crumbs of bread finely powdered, and fry in 
butter. 

To Stew Oysters, 

When you open them preserve the liquor and strain it ; 
wash the oysters from the grit, simmer them very gently in 
their liquor ; add pepper, cream, flour and butter, and serve 
with crackers or bits of bread. 

To Stew Oysters— New York Style, 

After carefiilly opening them^ lay them in a stew-pan, and 
pour their own liquor (strained), on them, and beat slowly. 
When just commencing to simmer, lift them out with a slice 
and take off the beards ; add to the liquor some good cream, a 
seasoning of pounded mace and Cayenne, and a little salt, and 
when it boils stir in some butter mixed with flour. Continue 
to stir the sauce until these last are blended with it, then put 
in the oysters, and let them remain by the side of the fire 
until they are very hot. Serve them garnished with pale fried 
sippets. 

A little lemon-juice may be stirred quickly into the stew 
just as it is taken from the fire. 



116 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Oysters and Chestnuts. 

Dip some oysters into a savory batter ; bread crumb tbem, 
and fry them brown. In the same manner treat a similar 
number of blanched Spanish chestnuts. Make a sauce with 
the oyster liquor, a piece of butter rubbed in flour, and two 
glasses of white wine. Stew the chestnuts in this, add some 
yolk of egg to thicken, and pour it upon the oysters. 

Oysters and Macaroni. 

Lay some stewed macaroni in a deep dish; put upon it a 
thick layer of oysters, bearded, and seasoned with Cayenne pep- 
per and grated lemon-rind. Add a small teacupfiil of cream ; 
strew bread crumbs over the top, and brown it in a pretty 
quick oven. Serve hot, with a piquante sauce. 

Scalloped Oysters, 

Beard the oysters, wash in their own liquor, steep bread 
crumbs in the latter, put them with the oysters into scallop 
shells, with a bit of butter, and seasoning of salt, pepper, 
and a little grated nutmeg ; make a paste with bread crumbs, 
crumbs and butter; cover, and roast them before the fire, or 
in an oven. 

Oyster Fritters. 

Beard, dip them into an omelette, sprinkle well with crumbs 
of bread, and fry them brown. 

Oyster FancaTces. 

Mix equal quantities of milk and oyster juice together. To 
a pint of the liquor when mixed, put a pint of wheat flour, a 
few oysters, a couple of eggs, and a little salt. Drop by the 
large spoonful into hot lard. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 117 

Philadelphia Roast, 

Large oysters not opened, a few minutes before they are 
wanted, put them on a gridiron over a moderate fire. When 
done they will open, do not lose the liquor .that is in the shell 
with the oysters ; serve them hot upon a napkin. 

Oyster Sauce, 

Take a dozen oysters ; blanch them by putting them in cold 
water, and boiling them for ten minutes. Make a nice melted 
butter, thus : — Take a pint of milk, let it boil ; add a little 
flour for thickening ; put in two ounces of butter, well-stirring 
it to keep it from burning. Then put in the oysters, with a 
pinch of Cayenne pepper, a little salt, and a tablespoonful of 
mushroom ketchup. 

Milk Oyster Stew, 

Take a pint ot fine oysters, put them with their own liquor, 
and a gill of milk into a stew-pan, and if liked, a blade of mace ; 
set it over the fire, take ofi" any scum which may rise ; when 
they are plump and white turn them into a deep plate ; add a 
bit of butter, and pepper to taste. 

Oyster Patties, 

Beard some oysters, let them stew a minute or two in cream, 
have patty-pans covered with a light paste, place a bit of bread 
in each, put in two or three oysters on the top, sprinkle some 
sifted bread, and bake them in a quick oven. 

Oysters— Vol-au- Vent, 

Quarter sweet-breads after they have been soaked and 
blanched, put them into a stew-pan with a very little veal 



118 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

gravy, and tlie liquor strained off two dozen oysters, adding 
a very little salt ; then put two ounces of butter into a stew- 
pan, stir it, and thicken it with flour, and when the sweet- 
breads are sufficiently stewed add them with the gravy ; after 
a few minutes put in the oysters, let them stew until the oys- 
ters are heated through : just before serving add a wineglassful 
of cream. A delicious stew may be made of oysters and tripe 
in this manner, simply omitting the veal gravy. 

Fanned Oysters. 

Take a dozen large sized oysters ; put first the liquor in the 
stew-pan, let it come to a boil, then put in your oysters with a 
lump of butter ; season with pepper and salt to taste, and stew 
about two minutes. Can be' served with toast. 

To Feed Oysters. 

Wash them perfectly clean in a pan of water, then lay them 
bottom downwards in a deep pan, and pour over them water 
with a large quantity of salt. Change the water every day. 
The salt should be previously dissolved in the water, allowing 
about five or six ounces to each gallon of water. You may 
fatten them by putting oatmeal into the water every day. 

Fratvns or Shrimps. 

Take them out of the shells and warm them with a little 
good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt 
and pepper ; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, 
or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. 

To Fat Shrimps. 

When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them 
with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 119 

them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold 
put buttei*. 

Shrimp Sauce, 

Pick half a pint of shrimps, and mix them in a sauce-pan 
with as much melted butter (brought to the thickness of cream) 
as you may require, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies. 

For a family sauce, the heads and skins should be boiled up 
in a separate sauce-pan, and the liquor which is strained from 
them mixed with the butter ; but as it is apt to give too strong 
a flavor, if you wish to make a delicate sauce you had better 
not use it. 



120 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 




Beef. 

HOW TO CHOOSE. 

HIS is one of the most important brandies of 
household affairs. There is not one person in 
fifty who is capable of selecting good meats, if 
his butcher chooses to impose upon him ; and 
as for cooking, I suppose every one will admit 
there is room enough for reform in this de- 
partment, all the world over. I have therefore 
taken pains to prepare a complete system of 
rules and observations by which any person of 
ordinary prudence and sagacity can not only purchase good 
meats, but have them cooked properly. The first thing in 
order then is to give the following hints in the selection of 
beef. 

True well-fed ox-beef may be known by the texture and 
color ; the lean will exhibit an open grain of deep coral red, 
and the fat will appear of a healthy, oily smoothness, rather in- 
clining to white than yellow ; the suet firm and white. Yellow 
fat is a test of meat of an inferior quality. Heifer-beef is but 
little inferior to ox-beef; the lean is of a closer grain, the red 
paler and the fat whiter. Cow-beef may be detected by the 
same signs, save that the older the beast the closer, the texture 
of the meat will appear, and the flesh coarser to the sight, as 
well as harder to the touch. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 121 

The following receipts for the different modes of cooking 
beef have been selected with the greatest care possible, and 
each one of them has been fairly tested in the principal hotels 
in the different cities of the United States and Europe. 

Roast Beef— American, 

The tender loin and first and second cuts off the rack are 
the best roasting pieces — the third and fourth cuts are good. 
When the meat is put to the fire a little salt should be sprinkled 
on it, and the bony side turned towards the fire first. When 
the bones get well heated through, tui-n the meat, and keep a 
brisk fire — ^baste it frequently while roasting. There should 
be a little water put into the dripping pan when the meat is 
put down to roast. If it is a thick piece, allow fifteen minutes 
to each pound to roast it in — if thin, less time will be re- 
quired. 

Roast Sirloin of Beef— English, 

Choose a nice sirloin of beef. Spit it or hook it on to the 
jack firmly, dredge it slightly with flour, and place it near the 
fire at first. Then draw it to a distance, and keep continually 
basting until the meat is done. Sprinkle a small quantity of 
salt over it, empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour 
in some boiling water slightly salted, stir it about, and strain 
over the meat. Garnish with tufts of horseradish, and seifd 
horseradish sauce and Yorkshire pudding to table with it. 

Beef a-la-Baube, 

Get a round of beef, lard it weU, and put it in an oven ; cut 
the meat from a shin of beef, or any coarse piece in thin slices, 
put round the sides and over the top some slices of bacon, salt, 
pepper, onion, thyme, parsley, cellery tops, or seed pounded, 
and some carrots cut small, strew the pieces of beef over, cover 



122 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

it with water, let it stew very gently till perfectly done, take 
out the round, strain the gravy, let it stand to be cold, take off 
the grease carefully, beat the whites of four eggs, mix a little 
water with them, put them to the gravy, let it boil till it looks 
clear, strain it, and when cold put it over the beef. 

Seef Stewed with Carrots. 

Take a small piece of juicy beef, cut some carrots in thin 
slices, add a spoonful of flour and four ounces of butter, let 
them stew well with the beef, put in some salt and some stock, 
if necessary, serve with the carrots over the beef. 

Beef Stewed tvith Maisins. 

Boil two pounds of meat in a little good beef tea, cut the 
meat in pieces, then add half a pound of raisins, four ounces 
of butter, some browned flour, a quarter of a pound of sweet 
almonds cut in pieces, and allow all to stew some time. 

Beefsteaks and Oysters Stewed, 

TIME, ONE HOUR AXD TWENTY MIXUTES. 

Put into a stew-pan a pound and a half of beefsteak, with 
two ounces of butter and a little water ; when the meat is a 
nice brown, pour in half a pint of water, a little pepper and 
salt, and the liquor strained from the oysters. Set the pan 
over a moderate fire, and let the meat stew gently ; then add 
five dessertspoonsful of port wine, a piece of butter, rolled in 
flour, and the oysters. Stew it all together till the oysters are 
done, and serve it up very hot. 

Fricassee of Beef, 

Cut some cold roast beef in thin slices, take off all the fat 
and skin, beat it up in a sauce made of some good broth 
thickened with flour and butter, add a little ketchup. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 123 

Broiled JBeef. 

Cut some slices of cold beef, broil them over a clear fire, and 
serve tbem witli fried eggs or scalloped potatoes and brown 
sauce. 

Broiled Beefsteak Bare, 

When beef is desired very rare, have a good bed of live 
coals ready, lay the beef on the gridiron and put it on the 
coals. It should be ready to turn in three minutes. When it 
is turned, take it up carefully with two forks ; roll it up so as 
to save the juice of the meat which has collected in cooking- 
do not squeeze the steak, but merely drain oflF the juice on the 
dish ; put it back as quickly as possible, so that it may lose no 
heat .in turning; add to the juice of the meat pepper, salt, and 
considerable butter, and set the dish over a kettle of boiling 
water. In three minutes, if the fire is right, it will be done. 

Beef a-la-Mode. 

Take the bone from a round of beef, fill the space with a 
forcemeat made of the crumbs of a stale loaf, four ounces of 
marrow, two heads of garlic chopped with thyme and parsley, 
some nutmeg, cloves, pepper and salt, mix it to a paste with 
the yolks of four eggs beaten, stufi" the lean part of the round 
with it, and make balls of the remainder ; sew a fillet of ptrong 
Jinen wide enough to keep it round and compact, put it in a 
vessel just sufliciently large to hold it, add a pint of red wine, 
cover it with sheets of tin or iron, set it in a brick oven prop- 
erly heated, and bake it three hours ; when done, skim the fat 
from the^ gravy, thicken it with brown flour, add some mush- 
room and walnut ketchup, and serve it up garnished with force- 
meat balls fried. It is still better when eaten cold with 
salad. 



124 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

beefsteaks ivitli Onions, 

Take four pounds of tlie best sirloin steaks, cut thin. Sea- 
son them with black pepper, and a very little salt. Put four 
tablespoonsful of butter into a frying-pan, and set it. over the 
fire. When it is quite hot, put in the steaks and let them 
brown. Have ready your onions seasoned with a little pepper 
and salt, and thickened slightly with a good dredging of flour. 
Pour them over the steaks in the frying-pan, and then let them 
cook till thoroughly done. 

Venison steaks will be found excellent dressed in this man- 
ner, but the venison must be fresh. 

Boiled Beef, 

The round is the best boiling piece. Put the meat in the 
pot with water enough to cover it ; let it boil very slow at first, 
this is the great secret of making it tender ; from two to three 
hours, according to size, is the rule for boiling. 

Beefsteak Dumpling, 

Take a nice juicy piece of beef, cut it in neat bits, which 
sprinkle some salt on and roll up tight, flour them a little, have 
a basin lined with plain suet paste, fill it with the rolls of beef, 
pour in a little ketchup, cover up the meat with paste, tie up 
the basin in a floured cloth, and boil it three hours. 

Beef Tongue — London. 

Boil a fresh tongue in beef broth, skin it, then add a quarter 
of a pint of stewed apples, and some small raisins ; let them 
stew with the tongue a little, and if the sauce gets too thick 
add some more stock. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 125 

Beef Tongue — AnieHcan, 

Take a fresh tongue, divide it longways, boil it tender, dip 
it in flour, and bake it in butter to a nice bright brown ; then 
stew it in a thick brown sauce, and serve it with red currant 
jelly. 

French Moast Tongue, 

TIME, TO BOIL,. TWO HOURS AND A HALF) TO ROAST, HALF AN HOUR. 

The tongue ; twenty-four cloves ] a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; about six ounces of bread crumbs ; two eggs. 

Soak the tongue till it has thoroughly disgorged in lukewarm 
water, for about ten or twelve hours. Trim and scrape it, 
stick it over with 'the cloves, and boil it slowly for two or (if 
large) three hours. Then take it up and brush it over with 
the yolks of the eggs, sprinkle it with bread crumbs. Run a 
long iron skewer through it and roast it of a nice brown, bast- 
ing it constantly with butter. Put it on a hot dish, and pour 
round it half a pint of good gravy, with a glass of wine. Serve 
it with red currant jelly. 

Corned Beef, 

The lean pieces are to be chosen for boiling; the "round" 
is one of the best. It should be but sh'ghily corned — not 
allowed to remain in brine over two or three days, and boiled 
till the fibres are cut easily. 

FoUed Beef, 

Take some*told boiled beef (the lean half of the round is the 

• best), remove all the skinny parts, mince fine, and then pound 

in a mortar with some fresh butter till quite smooth. Season 

with a little nutmeg, a little black pepper, some Cayenne, a 



12G CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

little mace, and salt if necessary. Press it very firmly into 
flat pots ; clarify some frcsli butter, and pour over the top of 
eacli pot, and when cold, paper it over, and keep in a cold 
place. 

Spiced Beef. 

TIME, ACCORDING TO WEIGHT. 

The thin part of the ribs of beef; half an ounce of cloves ; 
half an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of black pepper ; half an 
ounce of Jamaica pepper, and some chopped parsley. 

Take the thin part of a piece of beef, after the rib piece 
(called the flap) has been cut ofl", if any of the ends of the 
bones are left, take them out. Hub it well with salt, and let it 
lay in pickle two days ; then take the alcove quantities of spice 
and a little chopped parsley, and spread the whole equally over 
the beef; roll it up neatly and tie it very tight. Set in a stew- 
pan over a moderate fire, and let it stew slowly till quite tender. 
Then press it well, and when cold it will be fit to serve. The 
spices are to be laid on whole.. 

Cold JBeef Sashed. 

Slice the beef in very thin pieces, and shake a little flour 
over it. Chop a middle-sized onion, and put it into a stew-pan 
with a tablespoonful of sauce, and an equal quantity of ketchup ; 
boil these together for two minutes, and then add half a pint 
of stock or gravy ; boil this down to half its quantity, throw 
in the beef, set the hash to boil for five minutes longer, and 
then serve with sippets of bread round it. 

JBeef Sausages. 

Take six pounds of beef quite free from skin, gristle, and 
fat ; chop it very fine. Three pounds of fat shred very fine ; 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 127 

season it witli two ounces of white pepper, a quarter of a pound 
of salt, half-quarteru of the crumb of bread soaked in water • 
mix well together, put it into skins well cleaned, or press it 
into jars. When to be used, roll it up about the usual size of 
sausages. A little allspice is a great improvement. 

Nice I*atties from Under-done Beef, 

Cut the meat into small dice, season with pepper, salt, and a 
little chopped onion. Make a plain paste, and roll it out thin ; 
fill it with the mince, close up, and fry or bake to a light brown. 

Stewed Beef Kidney, 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR. 

Cut the kidney into slices, and season it highly with pepper 
and salt, and fry it a light brown ; then pour a little warm water 
into the pan, dredge in some flour, put in the slices of kidney, 
and let it stew very gently. 

Kidney Toast. 

Take a cold veal kidney, with a part of the fat, cut it into 
very small pieces, and pound the fat in a mortar with a little 
salt, bind altogether with the beaten whites of eggs ; heap it 
upon toast, cover the whole with yolks beaten, dredge with 
bread crumbs, and bake in the oven. 

To Fry Tripe, 

Cut it into squares of about three inches. Make a nice 
batter; dip the pieces in, and then fry them in boiling fat. 
Peel twelve large onions, and boU them gently for an hour ; 
then strain the water from them ; dip them in the batter and 
fry them ; then place a bit of tripe and onion alternately round 
the dish, the tripe resting on the onions ; serve perfectly plain, 
or with a little fried parsley. 



128 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Fricaseed Tripe. 

Cut a pound of tripe iu narrow strips, put a small cup of 
water or milk to it, add a bit of butter the size of an egg, 
dredge in a large teaspoonful of flour, or work it witb the 
butter ; season with pepper and salt, let it simmer gently for 
half an hour, serve hot. A bunch of parsley cut small and 
put with it is an improvement. 

To Dress a Sullock's Meart, 

TIME, TWO HOURS. 

Soak a bullock's heart for three hours in warm water ; remove 
the lobes, and stuff the inside with veal fo'"cemeat; sew it. 
securely in ; fasten some white paper over the heart, and roast 
it for two hours before a strong fire, keeping it basted frc- 
qucntli). Just before serving, remove the paper, baste, and 
froth it up, and serve with a rich gravy poured round it, and 
currant jelly separately. 

Fried JAver, 

Cut beef liver into slices about half an inch thick, and pour 
boiling water over them, in which let them stand twenty 
minutes ; then drain, and dredge with flour, salt, and pepper. 
Fry in fat fifteen minutes. 

Broiled Liver, 

Prepare as for frying, and broil fifteen minutes over clear 
coals. Season with butter, salt, and pepper. When for dinner^ 
serve boiled or baked potatoes, squash, and macaroni ; the latter 
only if desired. 

Beef Marroiv Bones. 

Cut them in short pieces, stop up the holes with a bit of 
bread or dough ; boil them some hours, and serve the marrow 
bones, each enveloped iu a napkin, with dry toast. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 129 

Beef Palates. 

Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel ; then 
cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose, 
and stew them in a rich gravy, till as tender as possible ; before 
being served, season with a little salt and ketchup. 

Veal. 

HOW TO CHOOSE. 

The flesh of a bull-calf is firmer than that of a cow, but 
then it is seldom so white ; the fillet of a cow-calf is generally 
preferred, on account of the udder ; if the head is fresh, the 
eyes are plump, but if stale, they are sunk and wrinkled. If 
a shoulder is stale, the vein is not of a bright red ; if there are 
any green or yellow spots in it it is very bad. The breast and 
neck to be good should be white and dry ; if they are clammy, 
and look green or yellow at the upper end, they are stale. The 
loin is apt to taint under the kidney ; if it is stale it will be 
soft and slimy. A leg should be firm and white ; if it is limp 
and the flesh flabby, with green or yellow spots, it is not good. 

A loin of veal must always be roasted ; the fillet or leg may 
be dressed in various ways, the knuckle or knee is proper for 
soup or for boiling ; these are the pieces that compose the hind 
quarter. In the fore-quarter, the breast and rack admit variety 
in cooking ; the shoulder and neck are only fit for soup. 

To Roast Veal 

Will take a quarter of an hour to a pound. Paper the fat of 
the loin and fillet ; stufl" the fillet and shoulder with the follow- 
ing ingredients — A quarter of a pound of suet, chopped fine, 
parsley and sweet herbs, chopped, grated bread and lemon peel, 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, and yolk of an egg ; butter may supply 
the want of suet ; roast the breast with the caul on till it is 



]aO CKNTENNIAL COOK BOOK* 

almost done, then take it off, flour it, and baste it; veal requires 
to be more done tlian beef. For sauce, salad, pickles, potatoes, 
brocoli, cucumbers, raw or stewed, French beans, peas, cauli- 
flower, celery, raw or stewed 

To Stetv a Breast of Veal, 

Cut it into pieces about three inches in size, fry it nicely ; 
mix a little flour with some beef broth, an onion, two or three 
cloves ; stew this some time, strain it, add three pints or two 
quarts of peas, or some heads of. asparagus cut like peas ; put 
in the meat, let it stew gently ; add pepper and salt. 

To Steiv a Necic of Veal. 

Take the best end of the neck, put' it into a stew-pan with 
some boiling water, some salt, whole pepper, and cloves tied in 
a bit of muslin, an onion, a piece of lemon-peel ; stew this till 
tender ; take out spice and peel, put in a little milk and flour 
mixed, some celery ready boiled and cut into lengths ; boil it 
up, then serve. * 

Veal Cutlets, a-la Maitre d'Hotel, 

Fry three or four slices of pork until brown — take them up, 
then put in slices of veal, about an inch thick, cut from the 
leg. When brown on both sides, take them up — stir half a 
pint of water into the gravy, then mix two or three teaspoousful 
of flour with a little water, and stir it in — soak a couple of 
slices of toasted bread in the gravy, lay them on the bottom of 
the platter, place the meat and pork over it, then turn on the 
gravy. A very nice way to cook the cutlets, is to make a batter 
with half a pint of milk, an egg beaten to a froth, and flour 
enough to render it thick. When the veal is fried brown, dip 
it into the batter, then put it back into the fat, and fry it until 
brown again. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 131 

Baked Fillet of Veal, 

Take tlie bone out of the fillet, wrap the flap around and 
sew it, make a forcemeat of bread crumbs, the fat of bacon, a 
little onion chopped, parsley, pepper, salt, and a nutmeg pounded, 
wet it with the yolks of eggs, fill the place from which the bone 
was taken, make holes around it with a knife and fill them also, 
and lard the top ; put it in a Dutch oven with a pint of water, 
bake it sufficiently, thicken the gravy with butter and brown 
flour, add a gill of wine and one of mushroom ketchup,' and 
serve it garnished with forcemeat balls fried. 

Scotch Collops of Veal. 

They may be made of the nice part of the rack, or cut from 
the fillet, rub a little salt and pepper on them, and fry them a 
light brown ; have a rich gravy seasoned with wine, and any 
kind of ketchup you choose, with a few cloves of garlic, and 
some pounded mace, thicken it, put the collops in and stew 
them a short time, take them out, strain the gravy over, and 
garnish with bunches of parsley fried crisp, and thin slices of 
middling of bacouj curled around a skewer and boiled. 

Veal Olives, 

Take the bone out of the fillet, and cut thin slices the size 
of the leg, beat them flat, rub them with the yolk of an egg 
beaten, lay on each piece a thin slice of boiled ham, sprinkle 
salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, chopped parsley, and bread crumbs 
over all, roll them up tight, and secure them with skewers, rub 
them with egg and roll them in bread crumbs, lay them on a 
tin dripping-pan, and set them in an oven ; when brown on 
one side, turn them, and when sufficiently done, lay them in a 
rich highly seasjoned graxj made of proper thickness, stew 
them till tender, garnish with forcemeat balls and green pickles 
sliced. 



132 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Magout of Hreast of Veah 

Separate the joints of the brisket, and saw off the sharp 
ends of the ribs, trim it neatly, and lialf roast it ; put it in a 
stew-pan with a quart of good gravy seasoned with wine, wal- 
nut and mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of curry powder, 
and a few cloves of garlic ; stew it till tender, thicken the 
gravy, and garnish with sweetbreads nicely broiled. 

Fricando of Teal, 

Cut slices from the fillet an inch thick and six inches long, 
lard them with slips of lean middling of bacon, bake them a 
light brown, stew them in well seasoned gravy, made as thick 
as rich cream, serve them up hot, and lay round the dish sor- 
rel stewed with butter, pepper and salt, till quite dry. 

To Stuff and Roast a Calf's Liver. 

Take a fresh calf's liver, and having made a hole in it with 
a large knife run in lengthways, biri; not quite through, have 
ready a forcemeat, or stuffing made of part of the liver par- 
boiled, fat of bacon minced very fine, and sweet herbs pow- 
dered ; add to these some grated bread and spice finely pow- 
dered, with pepper and salt. With this stuffing fill the hole in 
the liver, which must be larded with fat bacon, and then 
roasted, flouring it well, and basting with butter till it is 
enough. This is to be served up hot, with gravy sauce having 
a little wine in it. 

To Sroil Calf's Liver, 

Cut it in slices, put over it salt and pepper ; broil it nicely, 
and pour on some melted butter with chopped parsley after it 
is dished. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 133 

To Fry Calf's Feet, 

Prepare tliem as for the fricassee, dredge them well with 
flour and fry them a light brown, pour parsley and butter 
over, and garnish with fried parsley. 

To Stew Calf's Feet. 

Take a calf's foot, divide it into four pieces, put it to stew 
with half a pint of water ; pare a potato, take a middling 
onion peeled and sliced thin, some pepper, and salt ; put these 
ingredients to the calf's foot, and let them simmer very softly 
for two hours. It is very good. 

To Sake a Calf's Sead. 

Divide the calf's head, wash it clean, and having the yolks 
of two eggs well beaten, wash the outside of the head all over 
with them, and on that strew raspings of bread sifted, pepper, 
salt, nutmeg and mace powdered ; also, the brains cut in pieces 
and dipped in thick batter, then cover the head with bits of 
butter, pour into the pan some white wine and water, with as 
much gi'avy, and cover it close. Let it be baked in a quick 
oven, and when it is served up, pour on some strong gravy, 
and garnish with slices of lemon, red beet root pickled, fried 
oysters and dried bread. 

To Boil Calf's Head, 

Tie it up in a cloth, and boil it for two and a half hours in 
plenty of water. Tie the brains in a bit of cloth, with a little 
parsley and a leaf or two of sage. Boil them one hour ; chop 
them small ; warm them up in a sauce-pan, with a bit of butter 
and a little pepper and salt ; lay the tongue, boiled the same 
time, peeled, in the middle of a small dish ; place the brains 
round it ; have in another dish bacon or pickled pork. 



134 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Moast Calf's Heart, 

TIME, FROM HALF AN HOUR TO AN HOUR, DEPENDING ON THE SIZE. 

Put the heart to disgorge in lukewarm water for an hour 
nearly; then wipe it dry, stuff it with a nice and highly sea- 
soned veal stuffing or forcemeat. Cover it with buttered 
paj^er, and set it down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with 
good gravy, or any sharp sauce. ■ 

Send it up as hot as possible to table. 

To Fry Sweetbreads. 

Cut them in long slices, beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub 
it over them with a feather ; make a seasoning of pepper, salt, 
and grated bread ; dip them into it, and fry them in butter. 
For sauce — ketchup and butter, with stock-gravy or lemon 
sauce ; garnish with small slices of toasted bacon and crisped 
parsley. 

To Fry Calf's Brains. 

Take the brains, being very careful not to break them, sea- 
son them with pepper and salt to taste. Roll them in cracker 
dust or in a batter of egg and flour, fry them in hot lard, until 
a light brown, same as fried oysters, and serve. 

To Sash Veal. 

When sliced, flour it, put it into a little gravy, with grated 
lemon-peel, pepper, salt, ketchup, boil it up, add a little juice 
of lemon ; serve round it toasted sippets. 

To Dress a Calf's FlticJc, 

Boil the lights and part of the liver ; roast the heart, stuffed 
with suet, sweet herbs and a little parsley all chopped small. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 135 

a few crumbs of bread, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little 
lemon-peel ; mix it up with the yolk of an egg. 

To Fot Veal. 

Take a part of a knuckle or fillet of veal, that has been 
stewed, or bake it on purpose for potting ; beat it to a paste, 
with butter, salt, white pepper, and mace, pounded ; press it 
down in pots, and pour over it clarified butter. 

Directions for Cleaning Calf's Head and Feet, 

FOR THOSE WHO LIVE IN THE COUNTRY AND BOTCHER THEIR OWN MEATS. 

As soon as the animal is killed, have the head and feet taken 
ofi", wash them clean, sprinkle some pounded rosin all over the 
hairs, then dip them in boiling water, take them instantly out, 
the rosin will dry immediately, and they may be scraped clean 
with ease ; the feet should be soaked in water three or four 
days, changing it daily ; this will make them very white. 

JiTutton. 

TO CHOOSE MDTTON. 

Good mutton is firm and close in the grain, the color is red, 
and the fat white and firm. Wether mutton is better than 
that of the ewe. 

Mutton is in the highest perfection from August until Christ- 
mas, when it begins to decline in quality. 

Mutton for roasting or steaks should hang as long as it will 
keep without tainting. Let it hang in the air in a cool, dry 
place. Pepper will keep flies from it. The chine or rib bones 
should be wiped every day. The bloody part of the neck 
should be cut ofi". In the breast the brisket changes first. In 
the hind-quarter, the part under and about the kidneys ia first 
to taint. 



13G CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Mutton for stewing or broiling should not be so long kept. 
It will not be so fine a color if it is. 

Saddle of Mutton, 

TIME, A QUARTER OF AN HOUR TO A POUND. 

Take oflf tlie skin, cover the fat with a sheet of well-greased 
paper, and roast it a nice brown, just before it is finished 
cooking remove the paper, sprinkle the joint with salt^ 
dredge it well over with flour, and drop warm butter over it. 
Serve it with good gravy, or empty the contents of a dripping- 
pan into a basin, from which remove the fat, add a little warm 
water and use this natural gravy. Red currant jelly as sauce. 

Roast Shoulder of Mutton, 

TIME, A QUARTER OF AN HOUR TO EACH POUND. 

A shoulder of mutton should not be basted in roasting, but 
simply rubbed with a little butter. 

Put the spit in close to the shank bone, and run it along 
to the blade bone. Roast this joint at a sharp, brisk fire. It 
should be well hung ; and served with onion sauce. It may 
be filled with bread, butter, salt, pejjper, and sage ; or, if pre- 
ferred, potato stuffing may be used. 

Broiled Mutton with Tomato Sauce, 

Cold boiled leg of mutton, if not too much boiled, is very 
good cut in rather thick slices, sprinkled with pepper and salt 
and broiled. To be served very hot, with a thick sauce flavored 
strongly with fresh tomatoes or tomato sauce. 

Broiled Mutton CJiops, 

Cut the rack as for the harrico, broil them, and when dished 
pour over them a gravy made with two large spoonsful of boil- 



AND GENERAL GUIDE; 137 

ing water, one of mushroom ketchup, a small spoonful of butter 
and some salt, stir it till the butter is melted, and garnish with 
horseradish scraped. 

Breast of Mutton in Ragout, 

Prepare the breast as for boiling, brown it nicely in the 
oven, have a rich gravy well seasoned and thickened with 
brown flour, stew the mutton in it till sufficiently done, and 
garnish with forcemeat balls fried. 

Stewed Mutton, 

Stew the chops in a little water till very tender ; then 
dredge a little flour in the water. 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, 

Wash a leg of mutton, dredge it well with flour, and wrap 
it in a cloth, then put it in a pot of hot water, and boil accord- 
ing to its weight. Serve with drawn butter or parsley sauce, 
with boiled vegetables and pickles. 

Boiled Breast of Mutton, 

Separate the joints of the brisket, and saw ofi" the sharp 
ends of the ribs, dredge it with flour, and boil^it ; serve it up 
covered with onions — see onion sauce. 

Minced Mutton, and Mashed Potatoes, 

Mince the mutton finely, and stew it in a little gravy, to 
which add a dessertspoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, 
and a little butter. Stew till hot ; thicken with a little flour, 
and serve on a dish surrounded by mashed potatoes. 



138 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Lamb. 

HOW TO CHOOSE. 

The vein in the neck of a fore-quarter of lamb will be a fine 
blue if it is fresh ; if it is of a green or yellowish color it is 
stale. 

The hind-quarter first becomes tainted under the kidney. 

A fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck and breast. 

A hind-quarter is the leg and' loin. 

The pluck is sold with the head, liver, heart and lights. 
The melt is not used with us. 

The fry contains the sweet-breads, skirts, and some of the 
liver. 

Lamb may be hashed, stewed, roasted, fried, broiled, or 
made in a pie, the same as veal. 

Lamb Cutlets and Green Peas, a-la-Royal, 

TIME, EIGHT OR TEN MINUTES. 

Take the cutlets from the best end of the neck ; chop ofi" the 
thick part of the chine bone, and trim the cutlets neatly by 
taking off the skin and the greater part of the fat, scraping 
the upper part of the bones perfectly clean. Brush each cutlet 
over with well-beaten yolk of egg, and then sprinkle them with 
fine bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. After this 
dip them separately into a little clarified butter. Sprinkle more 
crumbs over them and fry them, turning them occasionally. 
Have ready half a peck of green peas, nicely boiled, and 
arranged in a pyramid or raised form in the centre of a hot 
dish. Lay the cutlets before the fire to drain, and then place 
them round the green peas. 

Moast Leg of Lamb. 

TIME, ONE HOUR AND THREE-QUARTERS FOR SIX POUNDS. 

Procure a fine fresh leg of lamb, and place it some distance 
from the fire, basting it frequently a short time before it is 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 139 

done, move it nearer, dredge it with flour and a little salt, and 
baste it with dissolved butter, to give it a nice frothy appear- 
ance. Then empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a 
cupful of hot water, stir it well round, and pour the gravy over 
the meat, through a fine sieve. Serve with mint sauce and a 
salad. 

Moast Shouldei* of Lamb* 

TIME, ONE HOUR AND A QUARTER. 

Place the joint at a moderate distance from a nice clear fire^ 
and keep it constantly basted, to prevent the skin from becoming 
burnt. When done, dish it up ; and serve it with gravy made 
in the dripping-pan and poured round it. Send up mint sauce 
in a tureen. 

Lamh Chops, 

TIME, EIGHT TO TEN MINUTES 

Chops from the loin ; pepper and salt ; a mold of mashed 
potatoes. 

Cut the chops from a loin of lamb ; let them be about three- 
quarters of an inch thick. BroU them over a clear fire. When 
they are done, season them with pepper and salt. Have ready 
a mold of nicely mashed potatoes in a hot dish ; place the chops 
leaning against them, and serve very hot. Or they may be 
served garnished only with fried parsley. 

Lamb's Fry. 

The heart and sweet bread are nice fried plainly, or dipped 
into a beaten egg and fine bread crumbs. They should be fried 
in lard. 

Stewed Lamb, 

Take half a shoulder of lamb and boil it in two quarts of 
water for two hours. Then put in potatoes, onions, turnips 
cut in quarters, salt and pepper to taste. Ten minutes before 
serving put in the dumplings. 



140 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Honed Quarter of Lamb. 

TIME, A QUARTER OF AN HOUR TO EACH POUND. 

One pound of forcemeat ; melted butter. 

Bone a quarter of lamb, fill it with forcemeat, roll it round, 
and tie it with a piece of string, cover it with a buttered paper, 
and roast it. Serve it with melted butter. 

PorJc, Mams, <£-c. 

HOW TO CHOOSE. 

Pork, if it is measley, is very dangerous to eat ; it may be 
easily seen, the fat being full of little kernels; if it is young, 
the lean will break if pinched, and the skin will dent by nip- 
ping it with the fingers ; the fat will be soft and pulpy, like 
lard ; if the rind is thick, rough, and cannot be nipped with 
the fingers, it is old ; if the flesh is cool and smooth, it is fresh ; 
if it is clammy, it is tainted ; it will be worse at the knuckle 
than at any other part. 

Very great care should be used in purchasing pork, as of 
late years pigs have been subject to much disease, and the 
flesh of the animal then becomes perfectly poisonous. If pos- 
sible, learn where and how the pork you eat is fattened. 

A pig should only be six months old for boiling or roasting, 
larger and older, of course, for salting. A pig should be short- 
legged and thick-necked, and have a small head. 

Hams with short shanks are best. Put a knife under the 
bone, if it comes out clean and smells well, it is good ; but if 
it is daubed and smeared, and has a disagreeable smell, it 
is bad. 

To Moast Leg of Porh with Stuffing. 

TIME, TWENTY MINUTES FOB EACH POUND. 

Cut a slit in the knuckle, raise the- skin, put under it some 
nice sage and onion stuffing, and fasten it in with a small 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 141 

skewer ; put it at some distance from tlie fire, and baste it 
frequently. Just before it is done, moisten the skin all over 
•with a little butter, dredge it with flour, and place it near the 
fire to brown and crisp. "When 'done, put it on a hot dish, 
pour a littte gravy made in the dripping-pan round it, and 
serve with apple sauce. 

To Moast a Sparerih of Pork, 

TIME, ONE HOUR AND THREE-QUARTERS FOR SIX POUNDS. 

Score the skin, put the joint down to a bright fire to roast, 
rub a little flour over it. If the rind is kept on, roast it with- 
out a buttered paper over it, but if the skin and fat are re- 
moved, cover it with a buttered paper. Keep it frequently 
basted. About ten minutes before taking it. up, strew over it 
some powdered sage ; froth it with a little butter, and serve 
with gravy strained over it, and apple sauce in a tureen. 

Sdked or Moast Fig. 

A pig for roasting or baking should be small and fat. Take 
out the inwards, and cut off the first joint of the feet, and boil 
them till tender, then chop them. . Prepare a dressing of 
bread soaked soft, the water squeezed out, and the bread 
mashed fine, season it with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, add 
a little butter, and fill the pig with the dressing. Rub a little 
butter on the outside of the pig, to prevent its blistering. Bake 
or roast it from two hours and a half, to three hours. The 
pan that the pig is baked in should have a litj;le water put in 
it. When cooked, take out a little of the dressing and gravy 
from the pan, mix it with the chopped inwards and feet, put 
in a little butter, pepper and salt, and use this for a sauce. 



142 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Pork Olives. 

Cut slices from a fillet or leg of cold* fresh pork. Make a 
forcemeat iu the usual manner, only substitutuig for sweet 
herbs some sage leaves chopped fine. When the slices are 
covered with the forcemeat, and rolled up and tied round, stew 
them slowly either in cold gravy left of the pork, or in fresh 
lard. Drain them well before they go to table. Serve them 
up on a bed of mashed turnips or potatoes, or of mashed sweet 
potatoes, if in season. 

Fork C7ioj)S, 

Take a loin of pork and divide it into chops, strew some 
parsley and thyme, cut small, some pepper, salt, and grated 
bread over them ; boil them a fine brown ; have ready some 
good gravy, a spoonful of ready-made mustard, two eschalots 
shred small ; boil these together over the fire, thickened with 
a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little vinegar, if agree- 
able. Put the chops into a hot dish, and pour the sauce over 
them. 

To Toast a Sam. 

Boil it well, take off" the skin, and cover the top thickly with 
bread crumbs, put it in an oven to brown, and serve it up. 

To Stuff a Ham. 

Take a well smoked ham, wash it very clean, make incisions 
all over the top two inches deep, stuff them quite full with 
parsley chopped small and some pepper, boil the ham suf- 
ficiently ; do not take off the skin. It must be eaten cold. 

To Boil a Ham 

Steep it all night in soft water; a large one should simmer 
three hours, and boil gently two; a small one should simmer 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 143 

two hours and boil about one and a half; pull off the skin, rub 
it over with yolk of egg ; strew on bread crumbs, set it before 
the fire till of a nice light brown. 

Genuine Country Sausage, 

Three parts of pork to one of beef; four ounces of salt and 
one of pepper to every ten pounds of sausage meat. 

Chop the pork and the beef nicely together, and mix it well 
up with the seasoning, and either press it into pots and roll it 
when it is used, or put it into skins. 

Holland Pudding, 

BoU a belly-piece of pork till tender ; cut it into dice ; put 
to it some hog's blood, some rice flour, or other flour, to thicken 
it ; season it well with pepper, what salt is necessary, and pounded 
cloves ; put this into the great skins, which fill about half full ; 
boil them ; when enough they will swim ; the pork is best to be 
out of the pickle for hours. 

To Hoast a Pig's Sead, 

TIME, TO ROAST, HALF AN HOUR. 

Half an ounce of sage ; one tablespoonftil of salt ; one des- 
sertspoonful of pepper. 

Boil it till tender enough to take the bones out. Then chop 
some sage fine, mix it with the pepper and salt, and rub it over 
the head. Hang it on the spit, and roast it at a good fire. 
Baste it well. Make a good gravy and pour over it. Apple 
sauce is eaten with it. 

Pig's Head Boiled. 

TIME, ONE HOUR AND A HALF. 

This is the more profitable dish, though not so pleasant to 
the palate ; it should first be salted, which is usually done by 



144 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

the pork butclier ; it should be boiled gently ; serVe with vege- 
tables. 

Pig's Cheek, 

TIME, three-quarter's OF AN HOUR. 

Pig's cheek ; one ounce of bread crumbs. Boil and trim in 
the shape of ham, and, if very flit, carve it as a cockle-shell ; 
glaze it well, or put over it bread crumbs and brown them. 

Pig's ILidneys, 

TIME, FIFTEEN MINOTES. 

Pig's kidneys are prepared exactly as sheep's kidneys are ; 
they. are nearly divided, fastened flat open with a tiny skewer, 
and broiled over a clear fire. They are served quite plain, or 
with maitre d'hotel sauce, if preferred. 

Pig's Feet and Ears, 

TIME, TO BOIL, ONE HOUR AND A HALF ; TO BROIL, TEN MINUTES. 

Two onions ; one teaspoonful of made mustard ; two ounces 
of butter ; one teaspoonful of flour. 

When you have cleaned and prepared the feet and ears, boil 
them ; then split the feet in halves, egg and bread crumb them, 
and broil them. Cut the ears intb fillets, put them into a stew- 
pan with two sliced onions, two ounces of butter, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour. When they are browned, take them up, add 
a teaspoonful of made mustard to the puree, and lay them on 
a hot dish. Put the feet on the top of them, and serve. 

Hog's Head Cheese, 

Boil a pig's head until the bones will drop out. When cold, 
chop fine and season with pepper, salt, and sage ; then put it 
into a kettle, and to every quart of meat add half a pint of the 
liquor in which it was boiled. Simmer slowly for half an hour. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 1-45 

turn it into deep eartlien dishes, and on top place a plate with 
a weight upon it. When cold cut in slices. 

Ainerican Pork Pudding, 

Take the refuse parts of pork after killing, such as lights, 
liver, head, and all the offal of bones. Put in a kettle of boil- 
ing water ; let the whole remain until the meat falls from the 
bones. Chop fine, season, and flavor as you would sausage, 
then place it in skins loose. Boil again for about twenty- 
minutes, then remove and cool them off with cold water, and 
hang them up to dry, when they will be ready for use. The 
meat may be potted instead of pressing into skins. 

Bologna Sausage, 

TIME TO BOIL, ONE HOUR. 

Take a pound of bacon, fat and lean together, the same each 
of beef, pork, and veal, chop all very fine, and mix it with 
three-quarters of a pound of finely-chopped beef suet, sage 
leaves, and sweet herbs ; season it highly with pepper and 
salt. Then fill a large skin, and put it into a sauce-pan of 
boiling water, pricking the skin for fear of its bursting ; let it 
boil slowly for an hour, then place it on straw to dry. 

Pig's Feet Soused, 

TIME, ONE HOUR AND A HALF. 

Scald the feet and scrape them clean ; if the covering of the 
toes will not come off without, singe them in hot embers, until 
they are loose ; then take them off. Some persons put the 
feet in weak lime-water to whiten them. Having scraped them 
clean and white, wash them and put them into a pot of warm, 
but not boiling water, with a little salt. Let them boil gently 
till by turning a fork in the flesh it will easily break and the 



146 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

bones are all loosened. Take off the scum as it rises. When 
they are done, take them out of the water and lay them in 
vinegar enough to cover them, adding to it a quarter of a pint 
of the water in which they were boiled. Add whole pepper 
and spice with cloves and mace. Put them in ajar, and cover 
them closely. 

Soused Feet in Magout. 

Split the feet in two, dredge them with flour and fry them 
a nice brown ; have some well seasoned gravy thickened with 
brown flour and butter ; stew the feet in it a few minuses. 

To Pickle Fork. 

Hub each piece with common salt, lay them on a slanting 
board, that the brine may run off ; the next day rub each 
piece with pounded saltpetre ; dry some salt, and put a layer 
at the bottom of the pan, then a layer of pork, and so on till 
the pan is full ; fill all the hollow places with salt, and lay salt 
on the top ; cover the pan. Half a pound of saltpetre is 
enough for a middle-sized pig. 

To Keep Smoked Sams. 

Make sacks of coarse cotton cloth, large enough to hold one 
ham, and fill in with chopped hay all around, about two inches 
thick. The hay prevents the grease from coming in contact 
with the cloth, and keeps all insects from the meat. Hang in 
the smoke-house, or other dry, cool place, and they will keep a 
long time. 

Fried Sausages. 

Lay them in the pan and pour boiling water over them ; let 
them boil two minutes, then turn off the water and prick the 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 147 

sausages with a fork, or they will burst open when they begin 
to fry. Put a little butter in the pan with them, and fry 
twenty minutes. Turn them often that they may be brown on 
all sides. Cut stale bread to fry in the sausage fat, and garnish 
the dish with it. Bread is delicious fried in this way. Serve 
plain boiled potatoes, squash, mashed turnips, and apple-sauce. 

Fig's Tongues, 

Partially boil the tongues in order to remove the skin. Pickle 
them as you do hams (according to previous receipts) ; lay them 
one on the top of each other under a heavy weight. Cover the 
pan in which you place them, and let them remain for a week 
then dry them, and put them into sausage skins. Fasten them 
up at the ends, and smoke them. 



148 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



AID Mil 




How to Choose, 



ENISON.— K the fat be clear, bright, and 
thick, and the cleft part close and smooth, it is 
young ; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it 
is old. 

Turkeys. — In old birds the legs are rough 
and reddish ; in young birds they are smooth 
and black. Wlien fresh killed the eyes are clear 
and full, and the feet moist. 

Fowls. — If a coek, choose one with short 
spurs, observing that they have liot been pared or cut ; if a 
hen, her comb and legs must be smooth ; feel whether the 
breast-bone is well covered; if not, they have probably died 
from disease. 

Geese. — When old the bUls and feet are red ; when young 
they are yellow. When fresh killed the feet are pliable ; when 
too long kept they are stiff. 

Ducks. — Those with pliable feet and plump breasts are the 
best. 

Pigeons. — They have supple feet when young. 
Partridges. — If young birds, the bills are dark colored, 
and the legs yellow. 

Pheasants. — The cock bird is accounted best, excej^t when 
the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round 
spurs ; but if old, they are long and sharp. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 149 

Snipe and Woodcock. — The feet are thick and hai-d when 
the birds are old ; if soft and tender they are young and re- 
cently killed. 

Plovers. — When young, they are limber-footed ; when fat, 
they feel hard at the vent ; when lean, they feel thin in the 
vent ; when stale, they are dry-footed. 

Hares and Rabbits. — When old, the haunches are thick, 
and the ears dry and tough. The ears of a young hare tear 
very easily. 

To Moast Venison, 

Put over it a sheet of paper, then a paste of flour and water, 
over that a sheet of thick papar, well tied on ; a haunch, if it 
be large, will take four houi-s ; just before it is sent to table, 
take off the papers and paste ; flour, and baste it with butter. 
For sauce, gravy and sweet sauce in separate boats. 

To Hash Venison, 

Cut nice slices from the venison you may have left cold, not 
forgetting to put plenty of fat with it, flour it, place it in a 
sauce-pan ; pour over it three half-pints of stock gravy, a gill 
of port wine, a little currant jelly, and two tablespoonsful of 
ketchup ; let it simmer gently, it must not boil, or it will make 
the venison hard ; as soon as it is thoroughly hot, add a little 
salt and Cayenne paper; serve with sippets round the dish. 
There should be currant jelly on the table. 

To 31 i nee Venison, 

Mince some cold venison finely, season with salt, make it up 
into balls, with sufficient gravy to make them stick, dip them 
in batter, roll them in bread crumbs, and broil them ; serve 
with brown sauce. 



150 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Stew Venison. 

Cut some slices of cold venison, stew it in some of its own 
gravy, di'edge some flour over it, and add a mixture of butter, 
ketchup, and red currant jelly; serve with square pieces of 
fried bread on it. 

Itoast Turkey tvith Chestnuts. 

Fifty chestnuts ; marrow from marrow bones ; a little butter, 
flour, and salt. 

Truss a turkey for roasting. Boil half a hundred of chest- 
nuts till tender ; remove the shell ; chop them very fine. Take 
the marrow of two marrow bones, cut into pieces, stufi" the 
turkey with the marrow and chestnuts. Fix a buttered paper 
over the breast ; put it down to a good fire, and baste it con- 
stantly while roasting. Then take ofi" the paper, baste the 
turkey well with butter, sprinkle a little salt over it^ and dredge 
it with flour to froth it. When done, take it up, pour over it 
a little chestnut sauce, and serve it with brown gravy sepa- 
rately. 

Sauce : bread sauce. 

To Hoast Turkey — American. 

Make the stuffing of bread, crumbled fine, one pound of 
butter, salt, pepper, and two onions chopped fine, stuff it, 
sprinkle it with salt, pepper and flour. Two hours and a half 
will cook it, unless very large. Baste it frequently. 

The giblets must be boiled tender for gravy, with salt and 
pepper, and a little onion, thickened with flour and butter. 

Fricasseed Turkey. 

Cut up a small young turkey, rinse it in cold water, put it in 
a stew-pan, with water to cover it, cover the stew-pan and set 
it over a gentle fire ; take off the scum as it rises, add a large 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 151 

teaspoonful of salt -wlien it is tender and wliite ; add a small 
teaspoonfal of pepper, work a tablespoonful of flour with quar- 
ter of a pound of sweet butter, stir it into the fricassee by the 
spoonful. Dip a bunch of parsley in hot water, chop it small, 
and put it in the stew-pan ; cover it and let it simmer gently, 
for fifteen or twenty minutes, then serve with boiled rice or 
mashed potatoes. 

To JBone Turkey, 

Have a tender turkey ; and after drawn, and washed, and 
wiped dry, lay it on a table, and take a sharp knife, with a 
narrow blade and point. Begin at the neck ; then go roUnd 
to the shoulders and wings, and separate the flesh from the 
bone, scraping it down as you proceed. Loosen the flesh from 
the breast, and back, and body, and from the thighs. The 
knife should always penetrate quite to the bone ; scraping 
loose the flesh rather than cutting it. When all the flesh has 
been completely loosened, take the turkey by the neck, give it 
a pull, and the whole skeleton will come out entire from the 
flesh. The flesh will then fall down, a flat and shapeless mass. 
Sew up any holes that have accidentally been torn in the skin. 
Then fill with forcemeat, when it will be ready for roasting. 

Devilled Turkeys and Fowls, 

Take the first and second joints of a roast turkey and cut 
deep gashes in them, and into these gashes put a little mixed 
mustard, a little salt and Cayenne pepper ; lay on the gridiron 
until heated through ; then place on a very hot dish, and spread 
with butter. Serve immediately. 

To JRoast Cliickens or Fowls, 

Leave out the livers, gizzards, and hearts, to be chopped 
and put into the gravy. Fill the crops and bodies of the fowls 



152 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

witli a forcemeat, put tliem before a clear fire, and roast them 
an hour, basting them with butter, or with chirified dripping. 

Having stewed the necks, gizzards, Hvers, and hearts in a 
very little water,, strain it, and mix it hot, with the gravy that 
lias dripped from the fowls, which must be first skimmed. 
Thicken it with a little browned flour, add to it the livers, 
hearts, and gizzards chopped small. 

Fried Fowl. 

Beat up two yolks of eggs, with butter ; cut cold fowl into 
neat pieces, dip them in the egg and butter, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry them ; put them on a dish with some chopped 
spinach or peas round them. 

Boiled Chickens and Tongue, 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR. 

Draw and dress a couple of young chickens. Have a tongue 
trimmed and glazed, place it in the centre of the dish, and a 
chicken on each side. Garnish with brocoli. Pour over the 
chickens and the hrocoli, but not the tongue, a little white 
sauce ; and serve them up hot. 

Stewed Fowl, 

Take an old fowl, boil it for three hours in two quarts of 
water ; then add a quarter of a pound of rice, a little salt ; take 
out the fowl, put it on a dish, and arrange the rice round it; 
pour on it some thick white sauce made from cr^am. 

Croquettes of Fowl. 

Pound the white part of a fowl or some cold veal in a mor- 
tar, add a little salt ; beat up .an egg, with a little flour and 



. AND GENERAL GUIDE. 153 

milk, into batter, and mix the pounded meat with it ; roll it 
into balls the size and shape of eggs, and fry them. 

To Moast Capons. 

TIME, THREE-QUARTERS OP AN HOUR TO ONE HOUR. 

A capon must be drawn and trussed, then placed on a 
spit, and roasted before a fine brisk fire for about three- 
quarters of an hour, but if veri/ large, a longer time. When 
done, put it on a hot dish, pour some good gravy round it, and 
serve with bread sauce. 

Broiled Chicken, 

After cleaning nicely, split the backs ; pepper and salt them, 
and broil them a nice brown. Pour over them sweet butter 
melted, and serve as hot as possible. A sauce to be eaten with 
this may be made of mushrooms, tomatoes, oysters, or green 
peas. 

To Roast a Goose or Duch. 

Cut six onions very fine, season them highly with salt, 
pepper, and sage. (Some add bread and butter, or mashed 
potatoes.) Put it into the fowl, sprinkle salt and pepper over 
it ; baste frequently, and be careful to dish it before the breast 
falls ; two hours is sufficient for a tolerably large goose ; one 
for ducks. The giblets must be boiled with salt, pepper, and 
onions, for gravy, three hours. 

To Stew a Duck, 

Choose a fine fat duck, put it into a stew-pan, with a few 
leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper, and salt, and a small 
bit of onion shred as fine as possible ; add a quart of green 
peas, put in a piece of butter and a little flour. Give it one 
boil, and serve in one dish. 



154 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Dress Wild DucJcs. 

Stuff the ducks, cut the roots off small onions, blanch them 
in scalding water, then pick and put them into a stew-pun with 
a little gravy, set them over a gentle fire, and let them simmer ; 
when they are done, thicken them witli cream and flour, and 
when the ducks are roasted, dish them, pour the ragout of 
onions over, and serve them up hot. 

To Steiv Wild Ducks, 

Having prepared the fowls, rub the insides with salt, pepper, 
and a little powdered cloves ; put a shallot or two, with a lump 
of butter in the body of each, then lay them in a pan, putting 
butter under and over them, with vinegar and water, and add 
pepper, salt, lemon-peel, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; then 
cover the pan close, and let them stew till done, and sen^e them 
up hot, with a garnish of lemon sliced, and raspings of bread 
fried. 

To Droit Digeons. 

After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them and 
broil them very nicely ; pour over them either stewed or 
pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as 
possible. 

To Roast Pigeons, 

Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole ; and 
seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peals, or 
asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. 

To Steiv Pigeons tvith Uacaroni, 

Stew the pigeons either whole or cut in pieces, in a good 
gravy seasoned with salt, and a very little ketchup : when half 



AND GENERAL filTIDE. _ 155 

done, put in some macaroni, and let it stew gently in a closed 
pan, till quite tender. Fowls may be done in the same way. 

To Roast Woodcocks or Snipes. 

Pluck them, but do not draw them, put them on a small 
spit, dust and baste them well with butter ; toast a few slices 
of bread, put them on a clean plate, and set it under the birds 
while they are roasting ; if the fire be good, they will take 
about ten minutes' roasting ; when you draw them upon the 
toasts on the dish, pour melted butter round them, and serve 
them up. 

To Truss Teal. 

Pick the bird carefully ; twist eaeh leg at the knuckle ; rest 
the claws on each side of the breast, and secure them by pass- 
ing a skewer through the thighs and pinions of the wings. 

To Roast Teal. 

TIME, TEN TO FIFTEEN MINUTES. 

Teal should not be eaten till after the first frost, and shoidd 
be plump and fat. Roast them before a bright hot fire, and 
baste them very frequently with butter. Serve with orange 
sauce. Garnish with watercresses. Send up a cut lemon on 
a plate with thei _, and a tureen of sauce or brown gi'avy. 

To Roast Pheasants and Partridges. 

Roast them as turkey ; and sei-ve with a fine gravy (into 
which put a small bit of garlic), and bread sauce. When cold 
they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavor should 
not be overpowered by lemon. 



156 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Meed Birds, 

TIME, TEN MINUTES TO A QUARTER OP AN HOUR. 

Put them on a bird spit, tie them on another, and put them 
before ^ clear fire to broil ; place a round of toast under them 
sprinkle a little salt over them, and baste them well with but- 
ter. When done, cut the toast into four pieces, put it into a 
hot dish with a little gravy and butter over it, place the birds 
on the toast, and serve them up hot. 

To Moast G-rouse. 

TIME, HALF AN HOUR. 

Grouse ; slices of fat bacon ; vine leaves ; melted butter. 

Hang the grouse for some time ; pick and truss them like a 
fowl for roasting, laying over them thin slices of bacon and vine 
leaves, which tie on with a thin thread. Roast them for half 
or three-quarters of an hour, and when done, serve them on a 
slice of toasted bread, and pour some good melted butter over 
them. 

To Dress Plovers. 

Roast the green ones in the same way as wood-cocks and 
quails, without drawing, and serve on a toast. Gray Plovers 
may be either roasted, or stewed, with gravy, herbs, and spice. 

Stewed Mabbit, 

Take a nice fat rabbit, skin it and prepare it properly ; then 
cut it in pieces, and. stew it in milk, thickened with flour and 
a little flour of rice ; season it with salt, when sufficiently done ; 
serve it with a wall of mashed potatoes. 

Ragout of Rabbit. 

TIME, THIRTY-FIVE MINUTES. 

One rabbit ; a quarter of a pound of bacon ; two onions • 
half a lemon ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; one table- 
spoonful of flour ; and seasoning to taste. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 157 

To JS,oast Mare or Mdbhit, 

After it is skinned let it be well washed, and tlien soaked 
an hour or two in water. Put a relishing stuffing into the 
belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half 
done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in 
the neck, soak the part in warm water. The hare should be 
kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine 
froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and cuiTant-jelly sauce. For 
stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, 
herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion crumbs of bread, and 
an egg to bind it all. 



158 CENTENNIAL COOK liOOK 



f IS MS 



OR, 

THE ETIQUETTE OF THE DINING TABLE, 



Without a perfect knowledge of the Art of Carving,, it is 
impossible to perform the honors of the table with propriety ; 
and nothing can be more disagreeable to one of a sensitive dis- 
position, than to behold a person at the head of a well-furnished 
board, hacking the finest joints, and giving them the appearance 
of having been gnawed by wolves. 

It also merits attention in an economical point of view — a 
bad carver mangles joints so as not to be able to fill half a dozen 
plates fi'om a su-loin of beef, or a large turkey ; which, besides 
creating a great difference in the daily consumption in families, 
often occasions disgust in delicate persons, causing them to 
loathe the provisions, however good, which are set before them, 
if helped in a clumsy manner. 

I cannot, therefore, too strongly urge the study of this useful 
branch of domestic economy ; and I doubt not that whoever 
pays due attention to the following instructions, will, after a 
little practice, without which all precept is unavailing, speedily 
acquire the reputation of being a good carver. 

Ladies ought especially to make carving a study ; at their 
own houses they grace the table, and should be enabled to i^er- 
form the task allotted to them with sufficient skill to prevent 
remark, or the calling forth of eager proifers of assistance from 
good-natured visitors near, who probably would not present any 
better claim to a neat performance. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. • 159 

In carving, your knife sliould not be too heavy, but of a 
sufficient size, and keen edge. Be sure to put the guard upon 
your fork, to prevent accident from the slipping of your knife. 

The dish should be sufficiently near to enable the carver to 
reach it without rising, and the seat should be elevated so as 
to give command over the joint. No great personal strength 
is required, as constant practice "will render it an easy task to 
carve the most difficult articles, more depending on address 
than force. Show no partiality in serving, but let each person 
at table have a share of such articles as are considered best, 
for, however you conciliate the one you favor, you must bear 
in mind that you make enemies of the other guests. 

To Carve a Sirloin of Beef. 

There are two modes of carving this joint. The better way 
is to carve long, thin slices, lengthwise. The other way is by 
cutting it across, which, however, spoils it, and very much dis- 
figures the grain of the meat. If the pieces should prove too 
long by cutting the former way, they may be divided in two to 
give them a more elegant cut. The most tender and prime 
part is next to the loin. There will also be found some delicate 
lilt, part of which should be served with each piece of the 
meat. It would prevent much trouble if the joints of the loin, 
neck and breast, were cut through by the butcher, previous to 
the cooking, so that when sent to table, they may be easily 
severed. Should the whole of the meat belonging to each bone 
be too thick, one or more slices may be taken off between every 
two bones. 

In some boiled joints, round and aitch-bone of beef for in- 
stance, the water renders the outsides vapid, and of course unfit 
to be eaten ; you will therefore be particular to cut off and lay 
aside a thick slice from the top, before you begin to serve. 



IGO CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Carve Chuck— Bibs of Beef. 

This joint is very nice to stand cold for breakfast or supper. 
If the outside cut is preferred by any one, cut it thin off the 
top of the joint ; if it is not required, cut a thick shce off. By 
so doing, you come to the underdone at once ; and as most 
people like roast beef with the gravy in it, you will thereby be 
enabled to give satisfaction to the persons whom you are carving 
for. Cut the slices thin, and do not give too much gravy, 
unless asked for. Do not help to too much at a time, as it is 
easy for the persons whom you are carving for to send their 
plates again. You will find by doing this, that there will not 
be so much left on the plates to waste. 

To Carve the Aitch Bone of Beef. 

Cut off and lay aside a thick slice from the entire surface, 
then helj^. There are two kinds of fat attached to this joint, 
and as tastes differ, it is necessary to learn which is preferred ; 
the fat must be cut horizontally ; the softer, which resembles 
marrow, at the back of the bone. 

A silver skewer should be substituted for the one which 
keeps the meat properly together while boiling, and it may be 
withdrawn when you cut down to it. 

To Carve a Tongue. 

Cut nearly through the middle, and take thin slices from 
each side. The fat is situated underneath, at the root of the 
tongue. 

To Carve a Loin of Veal. 

The piece should be jointed previous to being sent to the 
table, when each division may be easily cut through with a 
^knife. The fat surrounds the kidney, and portions of each 
should be given with the other parts. 



■ AND GENERAL GUIDE. IGl 

To Carve a JBreast of Veal. 

Separate the ribs from the brisket. The brisket is tlie 
thickest part, aud a gristly substance. Carve each, and help 
according to preference. 

To Carve a Fillet of Veal. 

A Fillet resembles a round of beef, and should be carved 
similar to it, in thin aud very smooth slices, off the top. Cut 
deep into the flap for the stuffing, and help a portion of it to 
each person. 

Slices of lemon are always served with this dish. 

To Carve a Calf's Head. 

Cut the slices from the nose to the back of the head to the 
bone. Should the eye be requested, extract with the point of 
the knife, and help to a portion. The palate, a delicate morsel, 
lies under the head. The sweet-tooth, too, not an inferior deli- 
cacy, lies back of all the rest, and, in a young calf, is easily 
extracted with the knife. On removing the jaw-bone, fine lean 
will appear. Help to each of these. 

To Carve a Leg of 3Iutton, 

The nicest part lies at midway between the knuckle and the 
other end. Thence, cut thin slices each way, quite deep. The 
outside being seldom very fat, some favorite pieces may be sliced 
off the broad end. The knuckle is tender, but the other parts 
more juicy, some good slices may be cut lengthwise, from the 
broad end of the back of the leg. The cramp-bone is much 
thought of by some ; to get it cut down to the bone. 

To Carve a Shoulder of Mutton. 

Cut into the bone, commencing a short distance from the 
shank, and help thin slices of lean from each side of the in- 
cision ; the prime part of the fat lies at the outer edge. 



162 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Should more meat be required than can be got from that 
part, cut from the thick or fleshy jjart, which represents the 
blade bone, and some good and delicate slices may be procured. 
By cutting horizontally from the under side, many "nice bits" 
will be obtained. 

To Carve a Loin of Mutton. 

The loin of mutton, if small, should be carved in chops, 
beginning with the outer chop ; if large, carve slices the whole 
length. A neat way is to run the knife along the chine bone 
and under the meat along the ribs ; it may then be cut in slices, 
as the saddle of mutton ; and by this process fat and lean are 
served together ; your knife should be very sharp, and it should 
be done cleverly. 

To Carve a Saddle of ITutton. 

The taU end is divided, and the kidneys skewered under 
each division ; this is a matter of taste, and is not always done. 
Carve in thin slices, help fat from the vertebrae on both sides 
of the loin, and then carve crosswise, which gives you fat and 
lean ; help a slice of kidney to those who desire it. 

To Carve a Fore-Quarter of Lainb. 

First divide the shoulder from the scoven, which consists of 
the breast and ribs, by passing the knife under the knuckle, 
and cutting so as to leave a fair portion of meat on the ribs ; 
lay it on a separate dish ; the other part, which, after being 
sprinkled over with pepper and salt, should be divided so as to 
separate the ribs from the gristly part, and you may help from 
either, as may be chosen. 

To Carve a Leg, Loin, or Shoulder of Lamb. 

As these parts are so like those of mutton, the same direc- 
tions should be followed in the carving. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 163 

To Carve a Pig. 

First split in tlie centre, from head to tail, along the loin ; 
separate a shoulder from the body, and then the leg ; divide 
the ribs into convenient portions, and send around with a suffi- 
ciency of the stuffing and gravy. Many prefer the neck and 
between the shoulders, although the ribs are considered the 
finest part ; but as this all depends on taste, the question 
should be put. The ear is reckoned a delicacy. 

Should the head not be divided, it must be done, and the 
brains taken out, and mixed with the gravy and stuffing. 

To Carve a Loin of Porh, 

This may be carved and served in the same manner as a 
loin of mutton. 

To Carve a Leg of PorTc. 

Commence carving about midway, between the knuckle and 
farther end, and cut thin deep slices from either side. For the 
seasoning in a roast leg, lift it up, and it will be found under 
the skin at the large end. 

To Carve a JBam, 

The usual mode of carving this joint, is by long delicate 
slices, through the thick fat, laying open the bone at each cut, 
which brings you to the prime part at once. A more saving 
way is to commence at the knuckle and proceed onwards. 

To Carve a Haunch of Venison. 

First let out the gravy, by cutting in to the bone across the 
joint ; then turn the broad end towards you, make as deep an 
incision as you can in the fleshy part, and help thin slices from 



1G4 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

each side. The greater part of the fat, which is much esteemed, 
will be found on the left side ; and those who carve must take 
care to proportion both it and the gravy to the number of the 
company 

To Carve a Fowl. 

It will be more convenient carving this to take it on your 
plate, replacing the joints, as separated, neatly on the dish. 
Place the fork in the middle of the breast, and remove the 
wing, separating the joint, and lifting up the pinion with the 
fork, and drawing the entire wing towards the leg. This draw- 
ing will separate the fleshy part more naturally than cutting. 
Cut between the leg and the body, to the joint. By giving 
the blade a sudden turn, the joint will break. Repeat the 
same operation for the other wing and leg. Next take off the 
merry-thought by drawing the knife across the breast, and 
turning the joint back ; and then remove the two neck bones. 
Divide the breast from the back, by cutting through all the 
ribs, close to the breast. Turn the back up ; half way between 
the extreme ends press the point of the knife, and on raising 
the rump end the bone will part. Take off the sidesmen, 
having turned the rump from you : — and done. 

The wings should be made as handsome as possible. These, 
with the bi-east, are the most delicate parts of the fowl ; the 
legs are more juicy. 

To Carve a TurJzey, 

To carve, without withdrawing the fork, place your fork 
firmly in the lower part of the breast, so as to have the turkey 
at perfect command. It is not difficult to complete the entire 
carving of this fowl without extracting the fork till done — the 
whole back, of course, making one joint. Proceed to remove 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 1G5 

the wing ; the leg ; another wing and leg. (This may be done 
either before or after slicing the breast,) Next, remove the 
merry-thought, the neck bones, the neck itself; then, cutting 
through the ribs, the job is done. 

To Carve a Goose or Duck, 

With the neck end toward you, to take off the wing, put the 
fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the 
body, dividing the joint, and carrying the knife alone. Take 
off the leg by an incision, and separate the drumstick. Part 
the wing and leg fi-om the other side, cut long slices from each 
side of the breast. • The apron must be removed by cutting, to 
get at the stuffing. The meny-thought being removed, the 
neck bones and all other parts are to be divided as in a fowl. 

A Duck may be carved in a similar manner. 

To Carve Partridges and Figeons. 

Partridges are carved like fowls, but the breast and wings 
are not often divided, the bird being small. The wing is the 
prime bit, particularly the tip ; the other choice parts are the 
breast and merry-thought. Pigeons may be cut in two, either 
from one end to the other of the bird, or across. 

To Carve Woodcock f Grouse f £c. 

These birds are carved like fowls, when large. When small, 
they must be cut into quarters. The same directions may be 
applied to all small birds. 

To Carve a Hare or Mabbit. 

Take off the legs, by cutting through the joints, which you 
must endeavor to hit. You will then be able to cut a few 



IGG CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

slices from each side of the back. Nest dissever tlie shoulders, 
which arc called the sportsman's joints and are preferred by 
many. The back may then be carved into convenient por- 
tions, and the pieces laid neatly on a dish, and served -with 
stuffing and gravy to each person. 

To Carve Fish, 

Fish requires very little carving. It should be carefully 
helped with a fish-slice, which, not being sharp, prevents the 
flakes from being broken ; and in salmon and cod these are 
large, and add much to their beauty. A portion of the roe, 
milt, or liver should be given to each person. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



167 



liis, oiitifiis, im 




Hoiv to Choose. 



RESH eggs when held to the light, the white 
will look clear, and the yolk distinct ; if not 
good they will have a clouded appearance. 

Another way to test good eggs is to put 
them in a pail of water, and if they are good 
they will lie on their sides always ; if bad, they 
will stand on their small ends, the large end 
always uppermost, unless they have been shaken 
considerably, when they will stand either end 
up. Therefore, a bad egg can be told by the* way it rests in 
the water — always up, never on its side. Any egg that lies 
flat is good to eat, and can be depended upon. 

When eggs are stale, the white will be thin and watery, and 
the yolk will not be a uniform color, when broken ; if there is 
no mustiness, or disagreeable smell, eggs in this state are not 
unfit for making cakes, puddings, etc. 

Eggs for boiling should be as fresh as possible ; a new laid 
egg will generally recommend itself by the delicate transparency 
of its shell. 



Eggs a-la-Coque: or, JPlainSoiled. 

This being beyond question the most popular way of serving 
eggs, we must commence by giving it in the most approved 
French method. Get ready a saucepan of boiling water, place 



1G8 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

in it some fresh eggs, immediately retire the saucepan from 
the fire, put on the Hd, and let the eggs remain exactly four 
minutes. Take them up and serve them in a napkin, well 
warmed and folded in a dish. The eggs, if so preferred, may 
be put into cold water over a quick fire, and when the water 
comes to a boil, they are done. 

Egg Sandwiches, 

Hard boil some very fresh eggs and, when cold, cut them in 
thin slices, and lay them between some bread and butter ; sea- 
son them well with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. 

Eggs and Sausage. 

Cut some slices of Bologna or Spanish sausage ; toss them in 
butter or olive oil. Fry some eggs, trim them nicely, and lay 
one upon each piece of sausage ; arrange among them some 
parsley leaves, fried crisp, and serve as hot as possible. 

Mixed Eggs and Sacon. 

Take a nice rasher of mild bacon ; cut it into squares no 
larger than dice ; fry it quickly until nicely browned, but on 
no account burn it. Break half a dozen eggs into a basin, 
strain and season them with pepper, add them to the bacon, 
stu* the whole about, and when sufficiently firm turn it out 
into a dish. Decorate with hot pickles. 

Eggs and Seet-Moot. 

Take some slices of dressed beet-root ; toss them in some 
good fresh olive oil made perfectly hot ; arrange them in a 
dish ; place some poached and trimmed eggs en couronne (in a 
circle) round the beet-root ; add pepper; squeeze lemon-juice 
over, and serve du-ectly. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 169 



Eggs with Onions, 

Boil some eggs hard, preserve the yolks whole; cut the 
whites into slips, and add them to a few small onions which 
you have first fried in butter ; give all a stir up, pour ofi" the 
superfluous fat ; dredge in a little flour ; moisten it sufficiently 
with gravy ; add seasoning to taste ; let it come to a boil ; put 
in the yolks, and when they are quite hot, serve. 

Coached Eggs, 

Get ready some boiling water in a sauce-pan ; put in a little 
salt ; break some new-laid eggs, one at a time, into teacups • 
lay them gently in the water, as near the surface as possible ; 
place the sauce-pan over the fire, and let the eggs boil for from 
three to four minutes, according to fancy ; drain them, and 
serve them hot, upon pieces of toast. 

Eggs in Croquets, 

Boil eighteen eggs, separate the yolks and whites, and cut 
them in dice ; pour over them a sauce a-la-creme, add a little 
grated bread, mix all well together, and let it get cold ; put in 
some salt and pepper, make them into cakes, cover them well 
on both sides with grated bread, let them stand an hour, and 
fry them a nice brown ; dry them a little before the fire, and 
dish them while quite hot. 

JBaked Eggs, 

TIME, FIVE MINUTES. 

Well butter a dish, and break five eggs very carefully on it ; 
put on the top of each a little pepper and salt and a bit of 
butter, and put them into a slow oven until well set. Serve 
them up hot. 



170 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Scrambled Eggs, 

Break eight or more eggs into a basin, add to them a table- 
spoonful of sweet butter, cut into bits, and a teaspoonfal of salt; 
make a little bit of butter hot in a frying-pan, pour in the eggs 
and let them cook. Stir them with a spoon until they are just 
set without becoming hard or brown ; serve over toast. 

Eggs a-la-Sicilienne, 

Take the yolks of a half dozen hard boiled eggs, roughly 
chop them ; cut the whites into rings ; put the yolks into the 
middle of a dish, with the whites round them ; lightly sift some 
bread crumbs over; spnukle some essence of anchovy upon the 
top ; add a dessertspoonful of salad oU and a little red pepper ; 
place it in an oven for five minutes, and serve. 

Egg Omelette aux Confitures. 

Beat the yolks of nine eggs and the whites of six ; add a 
little sugar and rasped lemon rind. Put them into a frying- 
pan well buttered, and, when set tolerably firm, spread over the 
top surface some apricot, orange, or other marmalade, strawberry 
jam or currant jelly, etc. Fold the omelette in two, and with 
a red-hot skewer just press it together. Serve upon a naokin 
arranged in a dish. 

Omelette of Sam, Tongue or Sausage, 

There are three methods of making a ham or tongue ome- 
lette ; firstly, by simply cutting the meat into small dice, tossing 
it in butter, and pouring the well-beaten and seasoned eggs 
upon it in the pan, and letting them remain untU set, when 
serve ; or pound the meat to a paste in a mortar and beat it up 
with the eggs, and fry in the usual manner. The third method 
is to beat the eggs and fiy them, then lay upon them the meat 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. - 171 

(which has been previously tossed in butter), fold in the ends 
of the omelette, and serve as hot as possible. 

Egg Omelette and Hum, 

Mix eggs, sugar, rasped lemon rind, etc., together as for a 
sweet omelette, and, when dressed, turned upon a dish, and 
glazed, pour a glass of rum over it, and set a light to the spirit 
just before placing the omelette upon table ; serve it flaming. 

Omelette — American Mode. 

Beat the yolks of six and the whites of four eggs ; season 
with salt and spice according to taste. Cut some nice little 
pieces of bread, no larger than dice ; fry them in butter tUl 
they are well browned, then throw them quickly into boiling 
gravy or milk, or sauce of any particular flavor ; mix them 
with the beaten egg, and fry as an ordinary omelette. 

Egg and CJieese Omelette, 

Cut the cheese into small pieces, using about a dessertspoon- 
ful to two eggs, and for the rest proceed in the ordinary way. 
Parmesan cheese should be grated and beaten up with the 
seasoned eggs, oil being used for frying it. Gruy^re cheese 
should be cut into dice and strewn upon the eggs directly after 
they are poured into the pan ; a little fresh butter chopped up 
and added to the eggs while they are being beaten is a great 
improvement. 

pickled Eggs, 

Hard boil a dozen eggs, and, when cold, remove their shells ; 
put them into a wide-mouthed stone jar. Boil a quart of strong 
vinegar, seasoned with whole pepper, allspice, ginger, and a 
few cloves of garlic ; pour this over the eggs while it is scalding 



172 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

hot, and, when cold, bung down tight. Use as an accompani- 
ment to cold meat, or slice and toss them in salad oil as a relish 
to be eaten with devUed meats. 

To Preserve Eggs. 

By adopting the following method, eggs have been kept good 
two years : One bushel of quick lime, thirty-two ounces of salt, 
eight ounces of cream of tartar. Mix the whole together, with 
as much water as will reduce the composition to such a con- 
sistency that an egg, when put into it, will swim. 

Another way is : Procure shallow baskets which are rather 
coarse or open (they should hold about eight or ten dozen 
eggs), hang them on nails or hooks driven into the beams of 
the cellar. The lighter and more airy the cellar is, the l9nger 
the eggs will keep good. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



173 



eoffi 




Mints to Coffee and Tea Drinkers, 

^OFFEE is used at breakfast, after dinner, 
and also as an evening beverage. To most 
persons it proves at all times refreshing. 
When its use is succeeded by heartburn, 
or other unpleasent symptoms, it should be 
discontinued. It is of great service to the 
laboring man, or those who do hard and 
laborious work, as it is a great stimulant, 
and is invaluable in removing a feeling of 
exhaustion. Those who " waste the midnight oil," may, by its 
use resist a tendency to fall asleep. Those who are desirous of 
obtaining early and sound sleep should not drink coffee imme- 
diately before bed-time. Persons troubled with indigestion 
should avoid it altogether. In attacks of spasmodic asthma it 
is useful. 

Avoid highly flavored teas, especially green, as these gener- 
ally derive their flavor from pernicious ingredients. All green 
tea is more or less injurious ; it acts powerfully on the nervous 
system and injures the stomach. Good black tea is not only 
safe but wholesome ; but it should always be taken with a 
suitable proportion of milk and sugar added to it as correctives. 

To Boast Coffee. 

Have either a Patent Roaster, or an ordinary sheet-iron pan. 
To every three pounds of cofiee you put in the roaster add a 



174 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

piece of good fresh butter, a little larger than a marble, and 
two teaspoonsful of powdered sugar ; then roast the berries. 
This little addition develops the aroma of the berry. Many 
people prefer having chicory added to their coffee — the propor- 
tion is about a quarter of a pound of chicory to a pound of' 
coffee. 

To Make Coffee. 

To make good common coffee, allow a tablespoonful of it, 
when ground, to each pint of water. Turn on the water boil- 
ing hot, and boil the coffee in a tin pot, from twenty to twenty- 
five minutes — if boiled longer it will not taste fresh and lively. 
Let it stand, after being taken from the fire, four or five 
minutes to settle, then turn it off carefully from the grounds 
into a coffee-pot or urn. When the coffee is j)ut on the fire to 
boil, a piece of fish-skin or isinglass, of the size of a nine-pence, 
should be put in, or else the white and shell of half an egg, to 
a couple of quarts of coffee. 

To 3Iake French Coffee, 

French coffee is made in a German filter, the water is turned 
on boiling hot, and one-third more coffee is necessary than 
when boiled in the common way. Where cream cannot be 
procured for coffee, the coffee will be much richer to boU it 
with a less proportion of water than the above rule, and weaken 
it with boiling hot milk, when served out in cups. 

Coffee Milk. 

Boil a dessertspoonful of ground coffee, in nearly a pint of 
milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shaving or tWo 
of isinglass, and clear it ; let it boil a few minutes, and set it 
on the side of the fire to grow fine. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 175 

This is a very fine breakfast ; it sliould be sweetened with 
sifted sugar of a good quality. 

Coffee as Made in India, 

Put a quarter of a pound of ground coffee into a jug, and 
pour over it four quarts of boiling water ; stir until the froth 
disappears ; then cover up carefully with a towel, folded several 
times, so as to retain the steam, and let it remain twelve hours ; 
then pour it off, and test as required,' without boiling. It will 
keep several days. 

2%^ Art of Tea Making, 

Use soft water, and be sure it boils. If you are compelled 
to use hard water, throw into the kettle a pinch of carbonate 
of soda ; but the latter should never be used unless the water 
requires correction, and then very moderately, for it is apt to 
destroy the delicate roughness of the flavor. Put your tea into 
the empty pot, and be sure you use enough. Some persons 
practice a foolish economy in this matter, and use so little that 
the product is not much better than plain hot water. Then 
place the pot bj^fore the fire, or on the hob, or, still better, on 
the hot plate of an oven, till the tea is well heated, but, of 
course, not burnt ; then pour upon it the boiling water, and a 
fragrant infusion of good strength is instantly produced. 

Tea — Ordinary Mode. 

Scald the tea-pot, and if the tea is a strong kind, a teaspoon- 
ful for a pint of water is sufficient — if it is a weak kind, more 
will be required. Pour on just enough boiling water to cover 
the tea, and let it steep. Green tea should not steep more 
than five or six minutes before drinking — if steeped longer it 
will not be lively. Black tea requires steeping ten or twelve 
minutes to extract the strength. 



176 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To MaJce Cliocolate, 

Scrape or grate the chocolate, take a tablespoonful of it for 
half a pint, half-and-half milk and water ; put it in a perfectly 
clean stew-pan, make the chocolate a smooth paste with a little 
cold milk, and stir it into the milk and water when it boils, 
cover in for ten minutes or longer ; add sugar to taste, unless 
French chocolate is used, which is prepared sweet enough. 

Serve soda biscuits or rolls, or toast, with it. 

Chocolates-Philadelphia Mode, 

Allow three spoonsful of scraped chocolate to a quart of 
water ; boU about twenty minutes, and stir while boiling ; pour 
in rich cream or milk and let it boil up, and it is ready for 
the table. 

Cocoa, 

This is a very delicate drink. Persons who cannot drink 
coffee and tea, make use of this with impunity. 

Take two ounces of cocoa-shells and put them in a coffee 
boiler (but which has never been used for making coffee,) with 
two pints of water ; allow it to simmer for eight hours by the 
side of the fire, and then pour it gently off for use, leaving the 
shells in the boiler, to which, if another ounce is added, it will 
make other two pints, but it should not be used oftener than 
twice. 

Cocoa — Prepared. 

This beverage is prepared the same as chocolate, omitting 
the sugar. Milk may be used altogether if preferred. Never 
boil prepared cocoa more than one minute. Too much boiling 
makes it oily. The quicker it is used after making, the better 
it will be. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



177 




Sow to Manage Wines and Beer. 

LL wines, particularly the light-bodied and 
sparkling, require to be kept on their side, 
and at a uniform temperature of about 
fifty-five degrees. 

The sparkling wines are in their prime 
in from eighteen to thirty months after the 
vintage, depending on the cellaring and 
climate. Weak wines of inferior growths, 

should be drunk within twelve or fifteen 

months. 

Wines should be decanted very carefully in removing them 
from the bin when about to be used, otherwise the deposit is 
liable to become mixed with the liquid, and the flavor destroyed. 
Old bottled wines will lose many of their properties unless 
carefully decanted. 

Wines old in bottle should be drunk immediately on being 
decanted. If allowed to remain open for any length of time, 
the delicate aroma, so much esteemed, will be lost, and the 
wine becomes vapid. 

Various methods are employed for improving home-made 
wines which seem to require it. The leaves of the sweet bay 
and the peach, kernels of fruit, almonds, cloves, ginger, etc., 
are used to impart to it both flavor and perfume ; brandy is 
mixed with it to give strength ; and bruised raisins soaked in 
spirits are employed to improve the liquor when it is flat. 



178 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

The usual domestic and foreign fruits, from which wines are 
made are gooseberries, currants, sloes, damsons, elderberries 
grapes, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, cherries, raisins, 
oranges, und lemons ; also, various other fruits. 

To Make English Sherry. 

Put to thirty pounds of good moist sugar ten gallons of 
water. Boil it half an hour, skim it well, and then let it stand 
till quite cold. Add eight quarts of ale from the ale vat while 
fermenting, stir it well together, let it remain in the tub till 
the next day ; then put it into the barrel with six pounds of 
raisins, one quart of brandy, one pound of brown sugar candy, 
and two ounces of isinglass. Let it remain three weeks before 
the barrel is closed, and it must stand twelve months before it 
is put into bottles. 

Maisin Wine* 

TIME TO STAND, TWELVE DATS. 

Half a hundred of Valencia raisins ; ten gallons of soft 
water. 

Take half a hundred of Valencia raisins, pick them from thn 
stalks, and chop them very small, then put them into a tub,, 
and pour over them ten gallons of hot soft water. Let this be 
strained twice or thrice every day for twelve days successively, 
then pour the liquor into a cask, make a toast of bread, and 
whUe it is hot spread it on each side with yeast, and put it into 
the vessel. It will be fit to drink in four months. 

Orange Wine. 

To six gallons of spring water, put fifteen pounds of loaf- 
sugar, and the whites of four eggs well beaten ; let it boU for a 
quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises take it oflF ; when 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 179 

cold, add the juice of fifty Seville oranges and five lemons ; 
pare twelve oranges and five lemons as thin as possible, put 
them on thread, and suspend them in the barrel for one month, 
then take them out, and put in two pounds of loaf-sugar and 
bung it up. 

Grape Wine, 

Bruise the grapes which should be perfectly ripe. To each 
gallon of grapes put a gallon of water, and let the whole re- 
main a week without being stirred. At the end of that time, 
draw off the liquor carefully, and put to each gallon three 
pounds of lump-sugar. Let it ferment in a temperate situa. 
tion — when fermented, stop it up tight. In the course of six 
months it will be fit to bottle. 

Raspberry Wine. 

To each quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart of water ; 
bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain off the liquor, and 
to every gallon put three pounds of loaf sugar ; when dissolved, 
put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine (which will be in 
about two months), bottle it, and to each bottle put a table- 
spoonful of brandy. 

Med Currant Wine, 

Take thirty-six pints of fruit and one pint of raspberries. 
Mix with them twenty pints of water. When these have fer- 
mented, add twenty pounds of good sugar ; and after the wine 
is casked, two pints of brandy or whisky without any special 
flavor. 

Red Gooseberry Wine, 

Take equal quantities of water and bruised fruit, and to 
every twenty pints of the mixture add fifteen pounds of loaf 



180 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

sugar and one pound of sliced beet-root. When fermented, put 
into the cask a quart or more of brandy or flavorless whisky. 

Wine of Mixed Fruits, 

Take equal measures of water and fruit, such as white, black, 
or red currants, raspberries, cherries, strawberries, and goose- 
berries; bruise, strain, and ferment the juice, adding fifteen 
pounds of sugar for every twenty gallons of the li(iuor. A 
handful of sweet marjofam and a quarter of a pound of ginger 
will give flavor and perfume. Add two quarts of brandy or 
whisky, but do not put any flavoring. 

Damson Wine. 

Gather the fruit dry, weigh and bruise it, and to every eight 
pounds of fruit add one gallon of water ; boil the water, pour 
it on the fruit scalding hot ; let it stand two days ; then draw 
it ofi", put it into a clean cask, and to every gallon of liquor add 
two and a half pounds of good sugar ; fill the cask. It may 
be bottled oiF after standing in the cask a year. On bottling 
the wine put a small lump of loaf sugar into every bottle. 

Clierry Wine, 

Grather the cherries when quite ripe. Pull them from their 
stalks, and press them through a hair sieve. To eveiy gallon 
of the liquor add two pounds of lump sugar finely beaten, stir 
all together, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it. 
When it has done fermenting, stop it very close for three 
months, and then bottle it ofi" for use. 

Rhubarb Wine. 

In the month of May, when rhubarb is green, the stalks of 
the leaves should be used in the following proportions : Five 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 181 

pounds of stalks are bruised in a suitable vessel, to which is 
added one gallon of spring water; and after lying in mash 
three or four days, the liquor juice is poured off, when to every 
gallon of this juice three pounds of sugar are added, and allowed 
to ferment for four or five days in a suitable vat ; as soon as 
the fermentation has ceased, the liquor must be drawn off into 
a cask and allowed to remain until the month of March, when 
all fermentation will have finished ; it must then be racked off, 
and more loaf sugar added. 

Good Elderberry Wine* 

Strip the berries clean from the stalks, and put them into a 
tub ; pour boiling water on them, in the proportion of two 
gallons to three of the berries, press them down into the liquor, 
and cover them closely. Let them remain in this state until 
the following day, when the juice must be strained from the 
fruit ; then squeeze from the berries the juice remaining in 
them, and mix it with what was poured off at first. To every 
gallon of this mixture of juices add three pounds of sugar, one 
ounce of cloves, and one ounce of ginger ; boil twenty minutes, 
keeping it thoroughly skimmed. While still hot, put it into a 
cask, or large stone bottles ; fill entu-ely, and set the wine im- 
mediately, with a large spoonful of new yeast put into the 
bung-hole, and stirred round in the liquor. 

Blackberry Wine— My own Meceipt, 

Place your fruit in a large vat, mash and strain them through 
a hair sieve, or wine press, so as to extract the juice. To every 
quart of pure juice add two quarts of water and three pounds 
of sugar. Fill your barrel or keg entirely full. Reserve some 
of the mixture, in order to refill the vessel as it is fermenting. 
Continue refilling until fermentation has ceased. Close the 



182 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

bung hole. If the barrel or vessel is undisturbed, it does not 
require to be racked off. To rack it oiF will not injure the 
wine, it will rather improve it. 

Farsnip Wine, 

Sliced parsnips, twenty pounds ; boiling water, five gallons ; 
when cold, press out the liquor, and to each gallon add cream 
of tartar half an ounce, and sugar two pounds and three-quar- 
ters ; ferment, rack, and add brandy at discretion. 

Ginger Tfiiie. 

To three gallons of water put three pounds of sugar, and 
four ounces of race ginger, washed in many waters to cleanse 
it; boil them together for one hour, and strain it through a 
sieve ; when lukewarm, put it in a cask with three lemons cut 
in slices, and two gills of beer yeast ; shake it well, and stop 
the cask very tight ; let it stand a week to ferment, and if not 
clear enough to bottle, it must remain until it becomes so ; it 
will be fit to drink in ten days after bottling. 

To Improve Foor Wines. 

This is the cant term of the wine trade, under which all the 
adulteration and "doctoring" of wine is carried on. A poor 
sherry is improved by a little almond flavor, honey, and spirit* 
a port deficient in body and astringency, by the addition of 
some red tartar (dissolved in boiling water), some kino, rhatany, 
or catechu, and a little honey and brandy. 

To Mestore Miisty Wine. 

Bruised mustard seed, half pound ; camphor, quarter ounce ; 
bruised cloves, half ounce. Add them to ninety or one-hundred 
gallons of the wine, then bung close. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 183 

To Mack Wine, 

This should he performed in cool weather, and preferahly 
early in the spring. To avoid disturbing the dregs, a clean 
syphon, well managed, will be found better than a cock or 
faucet. The bottoms, or foul portion, may be strained through 
a wine-bag, and added to some other inferior wine. 

To Mestore Flat Wine, 

Add four or five pounds of sugar, honey, or bruised raisins, 
to every hundred gallons, and bung close. A little spirits may 
also be added. 

How to Imitate Sherry Wine, 

Take twelve gallons prepared cider, nine quarts imported 
pure sherry wine, six quarts native wine, three-eighths drachm 
oil of bitter almonds dissolved in alcohol, nine pints rectified 
whisky, one and a half pounds sugar, one and a half ounce 
tincture of saifron. Mix and manage as before. 

How to Make Apple Wine, 

To every gallon of cider, immediately as it comes from the 
press, add two pounds of sugar. Boil it as long as any 
scum arises, then strain it through a sieve and let it cool ; add 
some good yeast, mix it well ; let it work in the tub two or 
three weeks, then skim off the head ; draw it off close and tun 
it ; let stand one year, then rack it off, and add two ounces isin- 
glass to the barrel ; then add half pint spirits of wine to every 
eight gallons. 

Raspberry Brandy, 

Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a 
kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run ; 



184 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

strain, and to every pint add half a pound of sugar, give one 
boil, and skim it ; when cold put equal quantities of juice and 
brandy, shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger 
of the brandy. 

Cherry Brandy, 

Get equal quantities of morello and common black cherries ; 
fill your cask, and pour on (to a ten gallon cask) one gallon of 
boiling water ; in two or three hours, fill it up with brandy — 
let it stand a week, then draw off all, and put another gallon 
of boiling water, and fill it again with brandy — at the end of 
the week, draw the whole off, empty the cask of the cherries, 
and pour in your brandy with water, to reduce the strength ; 
first dissolving one pound of brown sugar in each gallon of 
your mixture. If the brandy be very strong, it will bear water 
enough to make the cask full. 

Blackberry Brandy, 

TIME, FIFTEEN DAYS TO FERMENT. 

One pound of sugar to two pounds of blackberry juice; a 
quarter of a pint of gin or brandy. 

Cover a quantity of blackberries with water, and put them 
into an oven to draw the juice out. Strain them through a 
sieve and leave them to ferment for fifteen days. Afterwards 
add a pound of sugar to two quarts of juice, with a quarter of 
a pint of gin or brandy. When bottled, do not cork it too 
close. 

Method of Cider Making, 

As soon as the apples are ripe, collect them in heaps on the 
grass ; by no means house them, or the cider will inevitably 
be musty. After they are ground and pressed strain off any 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 185 

bits of skiu or core that may have passed through the sieve of 
the press, put it at once into casks ; do not touch it until it has 
done fermenting, then put in the bungs. Any addition is in- 
jurious ; and the sulphuring of casks cannot be recommended. 

To Keep Cider Sweet, 

When barreling the cider, put into each barrel or keg a gill 
(eight large tablespoonsful) of white mustard seed. This will 
retard its becoming hard or sour. There is also a chemical 
ingredient, the sulphate of lime, which is a complete stopper to 
the fermentation of new cider, arresting it just when one 
wishes. 

Champagne Cider. 

Good pale vinous cider, one hogshead ; proof spirit (pale) 
three gallons ; sugar, fourteen pounds ; mix, and let them re- 
main together in a temperate situation for one month ; then 
add orange flower water, one quart, and fine it down with 
skimmed milk, half a gallon. 

To Keep Cider Good for Years, 

Take the cider when you think it will suit your taste, put it 
into a kettle, and boil it very little. Make a bag and put into 
it quarter of a pound of hops, then put the bag with hops into 
the kettle with the cider, and tie it fast to the handle so that 
the bag with hops will not touch the bottom of the kettle ; 
scum ofi" the cider while you have it on the fire, and after it 
has boiled a short time take it oiF the fire, and let it cool down 
lukewarm ; put it into a sweet barrel, and add one pint of 
good brandy, bung it up, and it will keep the same as you put 
it into your barrel for years. 



186 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

G^inger BeeVf or Pop, 

Pour two gallons of boiling water on two pounds brown 
sugar, one and a half ounce of cream of tartar, and the same 
of pounded ginger ; stir them well, and put it in a small cask ; 
when milk warm, put in half a pint of good yeast, shake the 
cask well, and stop it close — in twenty-four hours it will be fit 
to bottle — cork it very well, and in ten days it will sparkle 
like champagne — one or two lemons cut in slices and put in, 
will improve it much. For economy, you may use molasses 
instead of sugar — one quart in place of two pounds. This is a 
wholesome and delicious beverage in warm weather. 

Spruce Beer, 

Boil a handful of hops, and twice as much of the chippings 
of sassafras root, in ten gallons of water ; strain it, and pour in, 
whUe hot, one gallon of molasses, two spoonsful of the essence 
of spruce, two spoonsful of powdered ginger, and one of pounded 
allspice ; put it in a cask — when sufficiently cold, add half a 
pint of good yeast ; stir it well, stop it close, and when fer- 
mented and clear, bottle and cork it tight. 

Sarsaparilla and Lemon Pop, 

" Sarsaparilla Syrup." — Twelve pounds crushed sugar, one 
gallon of water, quarter of an ounce of oU of sassafras, quarter 
of an ounce of oil of wintergreen, a little lemon ; beat thirty 
minutes, but not boil ; color the syrup with burnt sugar. 

" Lemon syrup." — Twelve pounds crushed sugar, one gallon 
of water, half an ounce oil of lemon ; heat as above. 

For eight gallons of water, one pound of carbonate of soda, 
the whites of six eggs, beat to a foam, mix together, and strain 
through a coarse cloth ; use half a teaspoonful of tartaric acid 



■ AND GENERAL GUIDE. . 187 

to each bottle, also a tablespoonful of the syrup to each bottle ; 
then fill up with the mixture of water and eggs. 

Molasses Beer, 

Six quarts of water, two quarts of ^lolasses, half a pint of 
yeast, two spoonsful of cream tartar, stir all together. Add 
the peel of a lemon grated, and the juice may be substituted 
for cream of tartar. Bottle after standing ten hours, with a 
raisin in each. 

Beer of Essential Oils, 

Mix a couple of quarts of boiling water with a pint and a 
half of molasses. Stir in five quarts of cold water, then add 
ten drops of the oil of sassafras, ten of spruce, fifteen of winter- 
green, and a teaspoonful of essence of ginger. When just luke- 
warm, put in half a pint of fresh lively yeast. When fermented, 
bottle and cork it, and keep it in a cool place. It will be fit 
to drink in the coiirse of two or three days. 

Silver Top Beer, 

To three pounds of crushed sugar, take one pint of hot water 
and place over a slow fire until dissolved, then add the whites 
of five eggs, with one spoonful of flour, beat to a foam, and a 
teaspoonful of lemon oil ; then divide the syrup into two equal 
parts, and add to one part five ounces cai'bouate of soda, and to 
the other four ounces tartaric acid ; bottle tight, and use a 
tablespoonful of each syrup with a gill of water. It is a deli- 
cious drink. 

Excellent Mead, 

Three pounds brown sugar, one pint molasses, one-fourth 
pound tartaric acid ; mix, pour over them two quarts boUing 



188 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

water, stir till dissolved. Wlien cold, add half ounce essence 
sassafras, and bottle. When yon wish to drink it, put three 
tablespoonsful of it in a tumbler, fill half full with ice water 
add a little more than one-fourth teaspoon soda. An excellent 
summer beverage. 

Lemon Ice Cream, 

One pint of sweet cream, three pints of new milk, one pound 
of loaf sugar, and two lemons ; boil and stir the sugar in gradu- 
ally. If you have no lemons use four eggs. Put into a freezerj 
and surround the freezer with ice and coarse salt, on all sides j 
while freezing stir it well, scraping it down from the sides. 

Vanilla Ice Cream^ 

Boil a vanilla bean in a quart of rich milk, until it has im- 
parted the flavor sufficiently — then take it out, and mix it with 
the milk, eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten well ; let it boil 
a little longer ; make it very sweet, for much of the sugar is 
lost in the operation of freezing. 

Straivhery Ice Cream 

Is made in the same manner — the strawberries must be very 
ripe, and the stems picked out. If rich cream can be procured, 
it will be infinitely better — the custard is intended as a substi- 
tute, when cream cannot be had. 

Cocoantit Ice Cream. 

Take the nut from its shell, pare it, and grate it very fine ; 
mix it with a quart of cream, sweeten, and freeze it. If the 
nut be a small one, it will require one and a half to flavor a 
quart of cream. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 189 

CJiocolate Ice Cream. 

Scrape a quarter of a pound of chocolate very fine, put it in 
a quart of milk, boil it till the chocolate is dissolved, stirring it 
continually — thicken with six eggs. A vanilla bean boiled 
with the milk will improve it. 

Pineapple Ice Cream. 

Ingredients. — Half a pound of preserved pineapple, one 
pint of cream, the juice of a small lemon, one gill of new mUk, 
a quarter of a pound of sugar. 

Cut the pineapple into small pieces, bruise it in a mortar, 
add the sugar, lemon-juice, cream, and milk; mix well together, 
press through a hair sieve, and freeze twenty-five minutes. 

To Make Ices. 

Ices are composed of the juice of fruits, creams, and liquors, 
prepared and congealed by means of pounded ice mixed with 
salt, or with nitre or soda. The freezing-pot should be al- 
ways of pewter, because it prevents the contents of the vessel 
from congealing too quickly, and gives time to mix them 
thoroughly. In ices that are badly mixed the sugar sinks to 
the bottom, and they have necessarily a sharp, unpleasant 
taste. 

Haspberry Vinegar. 

Put a quart of ripe red raspberries in a bowl ; pour on them 
a quart of strong well flavored vinegar — let them stand twenty- 
four hours, strain them through a bag, put this liquid on 
another quart of fresh raspberries, which strain in the same 
manner — and then on a thu-d quart : when this last is prepared, 
make it very sweet with pounded loaf sugar; refine and bottle 
it. It is a delicious beverage mixed with iced water. 



190 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Malce Whisky Vinegar, 

Take six gallons of soft, pure water, three quarts of whisky, 
two and a half quarts Orleans molasses, and half a pint of good 
yeast ; put the mixture in a keg, and let it stand in the sun 
one month, and it is fit for use. If made in winter, let it 
stand by fire. 

Sugar Vinegar, 

Mix together a little yeast, two pounds of brown sugar, and 
a gallon of water. Let it stand in the sun a few months, say 
three, and it is fit for use. 

Cider Vinegar, 

This is best when apples are plenty ; everybody can make 
their own, merely by converting these apples into cider, and 
letting it stand six months. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 191 

Weights and Measures* 

TESTED AND ARRANGED BY MYSELF. CALCULATED SIXTEEN OUNCES 
TO TUE POUND. 



Wheat Flour, one pound of sixteen ounces is one quart 

Indian Meal, one pound two ounces is one quart 

Butter, when soft, one pound one ounce is one quart 

Loaf Sugar, broken up, one pound is one quart 

"White sugar, powdered, ....one pound one ounce is one quart 

Best Brown Sugar one pound two ounces is one quart 

Eggs, ten eggs weigh one pound 

LIQUID MEASURE. 

Four large tablespoonsful are ; half a gill 

Eight large tablespoonsful are one gill 

Two gills are half a pint 

A common-sized tumbler holds half a pint 

A common-sized wine-glass holds about half a gill 

Two pints are one quart 

Four quarts are one gallon 

About twentj-five drops of any thin liquid will fill a common-sized 

teaspoon. 
Four tablespoonsful generally fill a common-sized wineglass. 
Four wineglasses will fill a half-pint tumbler, or a large coffee-cup 
A quart black bottle holds in reality about a pint and a half; some- 
times not so much. 
A tablespoonful of salt is about one ounce. 

DRY MEASURE. 

Half a gallon is a quarter of a peck 

One gallon is half a peck 

Two gallons are one peck 

Four gallons are half a bushel 

Eight gallons are one bushel 



192 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 




Til AEf 01 WASIII&, liOIlfi, U. 

^>^ « f * » 

_ *v z^^ Duties of the Laundry Maid. 

HE laundry-maiJ is charged with "the duty of 
washing and getting-up the family linen, — a 
situation of great importance where the wash- 
ing is all done at home ; but in large towns, 
where there is little convenience for bleaching 
and drying, it is chiefly done by professional 
laundresses, who apply mechanical and chemi- 
cal processes to the purpose. These processes, 
however, are supposed to injure the fabric of 
the linen, and in many' families the fine linen, cottons and 
muslins, are washed and got up at home, even where the bulk 
of the washing is given out. In country and suburban houses, 
where greater conveniences exist, washing at home is more 
common, and in country places universal. 

Mints on Washing, 

The linen for Monday's wash should be collected on Saturday, 
sorted and put to soak in cold water according to the various 
kinds. The body linen should be put into one tub, the bed 
and table linen in another, and the fine things separately. Plain 
collars, cufis, wristbands, should be strung through the button- 
holes on a piece of bobbin long enough to enable the articles 
to be easily divided for rubbing, starching, &c. Colored mus- 
lins, prints and flannels, must be laid aside to be washed in a 
different manner from white calico or linen. Properly boiled 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 193 

suds are far better than soap for washing, particularly if a 
washing machine be employed. The suds should be prepared 
in the following manner : Shred into an earthenware jar the 
best yellow soap cut into very fine shavings, and pour boiling 
water to the quantity required. One pound of soap is plenty 
for one gallon of water. Add to this quantity half a pound of 
the best Scotch soda, and set the jar (covered) on a stove or at 
the back of the kitchen range till the soap is quite dissolved. 
If this be done on Saturday evening, the soap will be a smooth 
jelly fit to use on Monday morning. 

To Wash 3Iuslins and Fiques, 

In getting up muslins and piques, the failure is not generally 
in the washing, but in the starching. A good-sized panful of 
starch should be used, in which three or four inches of com- 
posite or other candle has been melted whilst hot. The articles 
should be thoroughly squeezed from the starch, and folded 
whilst wet between folds of old sheeting or table linen. They 
should then be passed beneath the rollers of a mangle, or 
through a wringing machine. All lumps of starch are thus 
removed. 

Piques should be ironed as lightly as possible, and the iron 
ought never to come into contact with the outside surface of 
the piqu6. An old cambric handkerchief is the best thing to 
use under the iron where absolutely necessary to iron on the 
right side. . . 

To Wash Flannels and Woolen Articles, 

Have the suds ready prepared by boiling up some good soap 
in soft water with washing crystal, but do not use the suds 
when boiling ; let them be as hot as the hand will bear when 
the articles are put in. The flannels should not be rubbed 



194 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

with soap, nor should the material itself be rubbed, as in wash- 
ing linen, etc. ; the fibres of the wool contain numberless little 
hooks, which the rubbing knots together; hence the thickening 
of the fabric and consequent shrinking in its dimensions. Sluice 
the articles up and down in plenty of suds, which afterwards 
squeeze (not wring) out. The clothes-wringers are a great 
improvement upon hand labor, as, without injury to the fabric, 
they squeeze out the water so thoroughly, that the article dries 
in considerably less time than it otherwise would do. After 
rinsing, squeeze out the water, and dry in the open air, if the 
weather is such as to admit of the articles drying quickly ; if 
not, dry in a warm room, but avoid too close proximity to a 
fire. Let aby dust or mud be beaten out or brushed off prior 
to washing. All flannels for shirts should be shrunk previously 
to making up, or they will speedily become too small. 

To Wash Woolen Shawls. 

SCOTCH METHOD. 

Scrape one pound of soap, boil it down in sufficient water. 
When cooling, beat it with the hand ; it will be a sort of jelly. 
Add three tablespoonsful of spirit of turpentine, and one of 
spirit of hartshorn. Wash the articles thoroughly in it, then 
rinse in col(J water until all the soap is taken off", then in salt 
and water. Fold between two sheets, taking care not to allow 
two folds of the article washed to lie together. Mangle, and 
iron with a very cool iron. Shawls done in this way look like 
new. Only use the salt when there are delicate colors that 
may strike. 

To Wash WJiite Merino Shawls. 

Wash the shawl in fair suds jtnade beforehand, rub no soap 
on the shawl, rinse in clear warm water, with two changes if 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 195 

you please ; then take a solution of gum arable, and add to it 
warm water till you think it will produce a little stiffness like 
starch when dry. Press with a moderately hot iron, before 
quite dry, laying a clean cotton or linen cloth between the iron 
and the shawl. 



To Wash Foint Lace, 

FRENCH RECEIPT. 

Mix a teaspoonfol powdered borax in a basin of strong white 
Castile soap-suds. Baste the lace to be washed, very carefully, 
with fine cotton, upon two thicknesses of flannel. Soak the 
lace, thus arranged, in the soap-suds mixture for twenty-four 
hours, or longer if very dirty, changing the suds two or three 
times. Then let it remain for two or three hours in clean 
water to rinse, changing the water once. Squeeze it out (do 
not ring it), and, when partially dry, place the flannel with the 
lace on it, lace downwards, on two thicknesses of dry flannel 
laid on a table, and smooth it with a hot u-on. During the 
whole process, the lace must remain basted on the flannel ; and 
when it is pressed, must lie between the dry and damp flannel, 
and pressed upon the latter. When the lace is perfectly dry, 
rip it off, when it will be done. 

To Wash and Starch Lawns. 

Lawns may be done in the same manner as the former, only 
observe to iron them on the wrong side, and use gum arable 
water instead of starch, and, according to what has been di- 
rected for sarsanets, any colored sUks may be starched, abating 
or augmenting the gum water, as may be thought fit according 
to the stiffness intended. 



196 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To Wash Calicoes, Quilts^ &c. 

author's own method. 

For as many -clothes as will well boil in a six-bucket boiler, 
take sufficient water to wet the clothes well. Beat into this as 
much soap (" or the first trial a little more ") as would be used 
for the entu-e washing of the same clothes the old way. Dis- 
solve a piece of borax the size of a large hickory-nut in boiling 
water, taking care to see it is all dissolved. Borax will not 
dissolve in cold water. Pour this dissolved borax in with the 
prepared soap and water. Put the clothes in, and let them 
soak twelve or twenty-four hours. Then put them on to boil 
and after they get well to boiling let them boil one hour. The 
boil-water must be the soak-water, with enough other water to 
make a good boil-water. Take out into sufficient cold water 
to make a good warm suds and wash out, looking a little to 
the collars and wristbands. After this put them through two 
other waters, and hang out. The calicoes should be soaked in 
a part of this same soak, but separate from the white clothes, 
and boUed after the white clothes. Most calicoes will be dulled 
the first and second washings ; after that they will brighten 
out. Quilts and comforts should be folded ready for wringing, 
and tacked in a few places with twine j^revious to wetting,' and 
not untacked until ready to hang out. A quilt or comfort will, 
require working about five minutes in each water to make it 
beautifully clean. To make calicoes look bright like new, a 
large tablespoonful of turpentine should be put in the soak in- 
stead of the borax. The white clothes will not look quite as 
well as with the borax. The clothes must be soaked in wood. 
The two first waters must be either rain or brook-water. There 
must be soap enough in so that, when the clothes boil, they 
boil foamy. Washing done in this manner is not quite half 
the work as when done in the old way : and I think clothes 



• AND GENERAL GUIDE. 197 

will last nearly or quite twice as long. I do not perceive that 
either borax or turpentine rot the clothes in the least. 

Washing Occupying One Sour. 

Have a preparation made from two tablespoonsful alcohol, 
two tablespoonsful turpentine, half pound brown soap, cut fine 
and mixed in one quart hot water. Pour the same into a large 
tub of boiling water, and allow the clothes to soak for twenty 
minutes. Then take them out and put them in a tub of clean 
cold water for twenty minutes. Afterward boil them in a like 
quantity of the above preparation for twenty minutes, and rinse 
in cold water. 

To 3Iake Starch. 

Allow half a pint of cold water, and one quart of boiling 
water to every two tablespoonsful of starch. 

Put the starch into a tolerably large basin ; pour over it the 
cold water, and stir the mixture well with a wooden spoon 
until it is perfectly free from lumps and quite smooth. Then 
take the basin to the fire, and whilst the water is actually 
hoiJing in the kettle or boiler, pour it over the starch, stirring 
it the whole time. If made properly in this manner, the starch 
will require no further boiling ;. but should the water not be 
boiling when added to the starch, it will not thicken, and must 
be put into a clean saucepan, and stirred over the "fire until it 
boils. Take it ofi" the fire, strain it into a clean basin, cover it 
up to prevent a skin forming on the top, and when sufl&ciently 
cool that the hand may be borne in it, starch the things. 
Many persons, to give a shiny and smooth appearance to the 
linen when ironed, stir round two or three times in the starch 
a piece of wax-candle, which also prevents the iron from 
sticking. 



198 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Gutn Arabic Starch for Making Shirf-Bosoms 
Glossy. 

Procure two ounces of fine white gum arable, and pound it 
to powder, put it into a pitcher, and pour on it a pint or more 
of boiling water, according to the degree of strength you de- 
Sire, and then, having covered it, let it set all night. In the 
morning, pour it carefully from the dregs into a clean bottle, 
cork it, and keep it for use. A tablespoonful of gum water 
stirred into a pint of starch that has been made in the usual 
manner will give a beautiful gloss to shirt-bosoms, and to 
lawns (either white or printed) a look of newness to which 
nothing else can restore them after washing. It is also good 
for thin white muslin and all kinds of laces. 

To Wash Silks. 

Silks, when washed, should be dried in the shade, on a 
linen-horse, taking care that they are kept smooth and un- 
wrinkled. If black or blue, they will be improved if laid 
again on the table, when dry, and sponged with gin, or whisky, 
or other white spirit. 

A black silk dress, if very dirty, must be washed ; but, 
if only soiled, soaking for twenty-four hours will do ; if old 
and rusty, a pint of common spirits should be mixed with each 
gallon of water, which is an improvement under any circum- 
stances. Whether soaked or washed, it should be hung up to 
drain, and dried without wringing. 

Satin and silk ribbons, both white and colored, may be 
cleaned in the same manner. 

To Iron Clothes. 

In ironing a shirt, first do the back, then the sleeves, then 
the collar and bosom, and then the front. Iron calicoes gen- 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 199 

erally on the right side, as they tlius keep clean for a longer 
time. In ironing a calico dress, first do the waist, then the 
sleeves, then the skirt. Keep the skirt rolled while ironing 
the other parts, and set a chair to hold the sleeves while iron- 
ing the skirt, unless a skirt-board be used. Silk should be 
ironed on the wrong side, when quite damp, with an iron 
which is not very hot, as light colors are apt to change and 
fade. In ironing velvet, turn up the face of the iron, and 
after dampening the wrong side of the velvet, draw it over the 
face of the iron, holding it straight ; always iron lace and 
needlework on the wrong side, and put them away as soon as 
they are dry, because if the least damp yet, they are apt to 
collect dust, which causes them to turn yellow very quick. 



200 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



WIA1II& 13 



To Clean Black Cloth. 

Dissolve one ounce of bicarbonate of ammonia in one quart 
of warm water. With this liquid rub the cloth, using a piece 
of flannel or black cloth for the purpose. After the applica- 
tion of this solution, clean the cloth well with clear water, dry 
and iron it, brushing the cloth from time to time in the direc- 
tion of the fibre. 

To Take Out Spots of Ink, 

As soon as the accident happens, wet the place with juice 
of sorrel or lemon, or with vinegar, and the best hard white 
soap. 

To Take Iron-moulds Out of lAnen. 

Hold the iron-mould on the cover of a tankard of boiling 
water, and rub on the spot a little juice of sorrel and a little 
salt ; and, when the cloth has thoroughly imbibed the juice, 
wash it in lye. 

To Take Out Spots on Silk. 

Rub the spots with spirits of turpentine ; this spirit exhaling, 
carries off with it the oil that causes the spot. 

To Memove 3Iildew from Linen, 

Moisten a piece of soap, and rub it thickly into the part 
affected. Then scrape fine chalk, or rather whitening, and 
rub that also in. Lay the linen on the grass, and from time o 
time, as it becomes dry, wet it a little. If the spots are not 
quite removed repeat the process. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 




CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK AND GENERAL GUIDE. 203 



THAT this work may be complete in all its parts, and 
no portion of it without a species of useful domestic 
instruction, I propose to add to its value of practical 
utility the advantage of a Family Physician and Household 
Surgeon and give some general and specific remedies for ail- 
ments of every-day occurrence ; it being understood that, in 
all serious cases, the gaiidance of a physician is indispensable. 
Advice and dii'ections are given for the treatment of some severe 
cases requiring prompt action, that may be followed with benefit 
until the arrival of the doctor. No particular school of medicine 
is adhered to, the efficacy of each receipt being the primary 
consideration in inserting it. The list includes many popular 
and domestic remedies, together with prescriptions of celebrated 
and leading physicians. Not crude and popular nostrums, 
but sound and scientific advice, conveyed in such a form that 
a parent may, with the utmost safety and confidence, administer 
what is prescribed either to an infant or an adult, with that 
certainty of benefit as if ordered by the family practitioner. 

This is not done with the idea of superseding the medical 
man, where families have the means of employing one, but for 
the use of those who may not be so fortunately situated. The 
information we purpose giving will be of incalculable advantage, 
and of great utUity and assistance in all cases of emergency, or 
where professional aid is not attainable. 

To make this department of my work more immediately 
acceptable to parents, I propose treating the diseases of infancy 



204 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

and childhood first in my series, to be followed by those affec- 
tions that generally attack maturer years and age. With this 
])rief prospectus of my intentions I will at once proceed to the 
consideration of the different diseases and their remedies. 



Rules for Treatment of the Child after Birth.— Give 

the breast within twelve or eighteen hours after birth at latest. 

Foment the breasts jvith warm water if the milk does not 
flow ; avoid rubbing the breasts with spirits. 

If there be too much milk, drink little, and take opening 
medicine. 

As a nurse, wear easy dresses about the bosom and chest. 

Keep down the tendency of the abdomen to enlarge, by 
exercise. 

If the nipple is small, or turned in, have it drawn by an 
older or stronger infant, not by artificial means, but let the 
new-born child have the first milk. 

Choose a hu-ed wet nurse (when required) neai-ly of the same 
age mth the mother, like her in constitutional peculiarities, and 
who has been confined about the same time. 

When nursing, live on nutritious but not on heavy diet. A 
full habit requires less nutriment than a delicate constitution. 
Stimulating liquors are to be avoided. Simple diluents, such 
as tea, are quite enough as drinks for many mothers. 

The mother's milk is the best food for the new-born child 
for three months. 

An infant from two to four months old requires to be suckled 
once about every three hours. 

The best substitute for the breast, but as temporary as pos- 
sible, is asses' or diluted cow's milk ; but on no account should 
farinaceous food be given at this early period. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 205 

Apply a flannel bandage to the lower part of the body in 
bowel complaints. A warm bath soothes irritation. 

After six months an approach may be made to more solid 
diet. 

Raise up the child after feeding. 

Give no stimulants, carraway seeds, carminatives, &c. ; they 
axe most pernicious. 

Give as little medicine to a child as possible, and always by 
advice. 

Never over-feed, and never stop crying by feeding. 

Avoid rough jolting and patting of the back. 

Train an infant to regularity in all its wants. 

Rules for Weaning. — Wean gradually, discontinuing suck- 
ling in the night ; the gradual change is beneficial to both 
motiier and child. Avoid weaning in severe weather. Take 
for yourself a cooling purgative, and refrain from fluids and 
stimulating diet. 

In weaning, apply to the breasts three ounces compound 
soap liniment, three drachms laudanum, one drachm camphor 
liniment. If this be too irritating, foment with warm water, 
or poppy-heads and chamomile flowers b'oiled together in water. 
Avoid tightness or pressure from the dress, and all roughness, 
for fear of abscess. Avoid di-awing the breasts : avoid exposure 
to cold. 

Rules for Treatment after Weaning— Food.— Study 

the child's constitution, digestive powers, teeth, strength, and 
proportion the kind and quantity of food. 

Animal food, in small quantity, once a day, if the teeth can 
masticate, is necessary when there is rapid growth. 

Avoid too nourishing a diet with a violent tempered child. 

Give a nourishing diet to a white looking, lymphatic child. 



206 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Both over-feeding and under-feeding produces scrofula and 
consumption. 

The spoiled and petted child is injured both in health and 
temper. 

Avoid seasoned dishes, fried and salted meats, pastry, un- 
cooked vegetables, unripe fruits, wine and rich cake. 

Insist on thorough chewing or mastication. 

Never tempt the appetite when disinclined. 

Vary the food from day to day, but a\oid variety at one 
meal. 

Animal food should be tender, and eaten with a Httle salt, 
vegetables, and bread. 

Take care that the child's food is well cooked. Give no new 
bread. 

Sweetmeats and confections are only to be given to children 
in a very sparing manner, if given at all. Never pamper or 
reward with eatables. 

RuIsS fOP Sl66p. — Allow the child plenty of sleep, with- 
out disturbance. 

Avoid accustoming the child to sleep on the lap ; it will not 
sleep in bed if so accustomed. 

Establish times for regular sleeping. 

Keep the hands, feet, and face comfortably warm — ^blankets 
are better than sheets. 

Support every part of the body, raising by a slope the head 
and shoulders. 

Avoid laying the child in the same bed vsith an adult, unless 
for a short time, to restore warmth if it faU. 

Never rouse the child by play when taken up during 
the night. 

Rules for Clothing. — In the first stage of infancy, warmth- 
depends on clothing alone, for there is no muscular movement. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 207 

Avoid a degree of warmth which produces sensible per- 
spiration. 

Flannel and calico are the best materials in all seasons. 

Dress the child loosely and fasten with strings, not with pins. 

The umbilical cord, navel, and belly-band, require much 
attention. 

Avoid keeping the child's head too warm, or its feet cold. 

Avoid chilling ihe child, or taking it abroad in cold weather. 

Attend to the form and size of the child's shoes, so that the 
feet shall not be cramped. 

The practice of plunging infants into cold water, to render 
them hardy, is exceedingly dangerous. 

Let a child's washing be very completely and carefully per- 
formed. Keep the child always perfectly clean and neat. 

Be very attentive to ventilate the apartment where a child 
lives but never expose it to draughts of air. 

Begin early to form habits of personal cleanliness and 
delicacy. 

Vaccination, — Let the child be vaccinated from six weeks 
to two months after birth, and that by a proper medical attend- 
ant. Vaccination should take place before teething. 

Deformities and Distortions.— Consult the surgeon upon 

the first appearance of any deformity ; and do not allow fears 
for giving pain to the child prevent the use of the necessary 
remedies. 

Be very vigilant with rickets or soft bones. Never allow 
the rickety child to support its own weight. It ought to be 
kept on its back for many months, and carried about on a 
little mattress, on a board or tray, and have nourishing diet, 
and the proper medicines to give solidity to the bones. 
■ Never jerk or swing children by the arms; much mischief 
has been done by this practice. 



208 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

When a child falls, or meets with any accident, it is highly 
culpable in a nurse to conceal it. If she do not immediately 
mention it, she may be the cause of the child's deformity and 
lameness for life. 

With proper attention, a tendency to be left-handed may be 
easily cured in a child. 

Prevent all tricks and ill-habits which injure the features 
and organs ; such as stuffing the nostrils, earS, etc., distending 
the mouth with too large a spoon. 

Curvature of the spine is of very frequent occurrence from 
mismanaging children, by tight lacing, long sitting without 
support to the back — (all school seats and forms should have 
backs). Take all deformities of the spine in time, before they 
get fixed. 

Visiting tiie Siclc. — Do not visit the sick when you are 
fatigued, or when in a state of perspiration, or with the stomach 
empty, for in such conditions you are liable to take the infec- 
tion. When the disease is very contagious, take the side of 
the patient which is next to the window. When you come 
away, take some food, change your clothing, and expose it to 
the air. 

To Purify tlie Air of a Siclc Chamber— Br. J. C. Black 

obtained £5,000 from Parliament for the following receipt: 
" Take six drachms of powdered nitre, and the same quantity 
of oil of vitriol ; mix them together by adding to the nitre one 
drachm of the vitriol at a time ; placing the vessel in which 
you are mixing it on a hot hearth, or plate of heated ii"on, 
stirring it with a glass rod, a tobacco-pipe, etc. Then place 
the vessel in the contaminated room, moving it about to dif- 
ferent parts of the room." 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 209 

Ointment for Sore Nipples.— Take of tincture of Toiu 

two drachms ; spermaceti-ointment half ounce ; powdered gum, 
two drachms. Mix. Make an ointment. 

The white of au egg mixed with brandy is the best applica- 
tion for sore nipples. The person should at the same time use 
a nipple-shield. 

Teething.— The first sign of teething is heat in the mouth 
of the child — felt by the mother during sucking — flow of saliva 
— biting and grinding the gums. A piece of india rubber is 
better than coral, ivory, or any hard substance, for rubbing the 
gums, 

When the child is much distressed, have recourse to medical 
aid. 

When?' the bowels are confined, give without delay a gentle 
purgative, such as castor oil, manna, magnesia, or senna. The 
warm bath at ninety-six degrees soothes the child. 

A child's mouth should be often examined, even after three 
years of age. Wayward temper, cough, and even croup, have 
been traced to cutting a double tooth. 

Do not hesitate to allow the chUd's gums to be lanced. 

Exercise. — Very little motion, and that of the gentlest and 
most careful kind, is all the infant should have for a consider- 
able time after birth. 

Avoid the upright posture as much as possible. 

Avoid all sudden and violent jerking, and long-continued 
positions. 

Allow the chUd to move its limbs freely, on the floor or in bed. 

Watch the first efibrts of the child to walk alone, and inter- 
fere rather with eye and hand than by exclamations of caution 
and alarm ; these last do much harm. 

Avoid sympathising too strongly with a child when hurt ; 
assist quietly, and show how the accident happened. Chil- 



210 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

dren who are angry when hurt, should see that you do not 
sjrmpathize with their rage, although you do with their suffer- 
ings. 

Abjure all leading-strings and go-carts, or other artificial 
means of teaching the child to walk. Never drag the child 
by one hand, or lift it either by one or both arms. 

When the child walks alone, it should not be permitted to 
over-fatigue itself. 

The mother should have her eye both on the child and its 
attendant out of doors, and be as much as she can in her 
child's company. 

Cholora Infantum. — In this disease the stomach and bowels 
must be evacuated, and afterwards give charcoal and magnesia, 
or the latter alone. When there is much irritability clysters of 
flaxseed tea, mutton broth, and starch, with a little laudanum 
in them, will give ease. Fomentations to the bowels and abdo- 
men are useful. After the violence of the symptoms is over, 
give the Peruvian bark in powder or decoction, adding a little 
nutmeg. Or, use a tea of avens, or bayberry-root, or the leaves 
of red raspberry. The removal of children to the country — 
abstaining from fruit — the use of flannel and the cloth bath — 
are the means prescribed for prevention. • 

Summer Complaint. — Take two tablespoonsful of grated 
comfrey root and the white of one egg, beaten well together ; 
then have ready a pint of boiling mUk, into which stir th^ 
comfrey and egg. It will thicken like "pap," and it is not 
unpleasant to take. 

Navel Soreness in Children. — This sometimes arises 

from inattention, or from some local irritation, which may be 
easily removed. Remedy. Keep the bowels gently open, and 
keep the part very clean. Dress the sore with a piece cf fine 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 211 

soft old linen, dipped in port wine. If the sore looks black 
and emits an offensive smell, dress it with a bleaching liquid, 
made by stirring a quarter of a pint of chloride of lime into 
three pints of water. A teaspoonful of this mixture to be put 
into a wineglassful of water. 

Nipples, inflamed, in Children.— An inflamed nipple in 

children's breasts is a common complaint immediately after 
birth. It affects male and female infants alike, and extends to 
the breast underneath. First Remedy. Mix spirits of cam- 
phor with lard, and occasionally rub on the part. Second 
Remedy. Cut a piece of soft brown paper the size of a crown 
piece, make a hole in the centre for the nijjple to go through, 
cover the paper with pure treacle, and place it over the in- 
flamed part. 

Convulsions. — Children are liable to convulsions from 
teething, wearing tight clothes, small-pox, measles, etc. Bath- 
ing in warm water, with a mild clyster, will soon relieve them ; 
and to make the fit still shorter, cold water may be poured 
over the face and neck while the rest of the body is in the 
warm bath. 

Ointment for Scurf on the Head.— Lard, two ounces ; 

sulphuric acid, diluted, two drachms ; rub them together, and 
anoint the head once a day. 

Griping in Children may be remedied by a little magnesia 
administered once or twice a day. If the gripings are severe, 
put the child into a warm bath, and give one grain of calomel 
every three hours until relief is afforded, then give a teaspoon- 
ful of castor oil. 

Mouth Sore. — Take of honey two tablespoonsful ; borax, 
powdered, half drachm ; mix well together, and take a tea- 
spoonful twice a day. The mixture should be placed in the 



212 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

moutli, little by little, touching the Vcarious ulcers that are 
visible, or can be got at. 

Vermin in the Hair of Children.— The most effectual 

mode of destroying vermin in the hair, is to dissolve five 
grains of bichloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate) in half a 
pint of distilled water, and wet the hair well with the solution. 
This lotion must be used with caution, as it is a deadly 
poison if taken into the stomach. 

Soothing Syrup for a Cough.— Half a pound of mus- 
catel raisins, opened, but not stoned; half a pint of the best 
olive oil, and half a pint of good Jamaica rum. These ingre- 
dients to be simmered over the fire for about half an hour, but 
not to boil. A teaspoonful may be taken at a time, and often. 

Worms in Children. — Make a strong sage tea, and dissolve 
in it a little saleratus ; sweeten it, and, if preferred, add a little 
milk. Salt and water is also good, especially if there are 
symptoms of fits. Allow them no sugar or sweetmeats, but 
plenty of salt in their food, which should be plain, but 
abundant. 

Another Remedy. — Give three to five grains of calomel 
in sugar, over night, and a dose of castor oil the next morning. 
Repeat once a week until the worms are wholly removed. 

Croup. — Spirits of turpentine is a sovereign remedy for 
croup. Saturate a piece of flannel with it, and place it on the 
throat and chest, and send for your family physician. If the 
case be very urgent, and the child in great distress, and the 
distance to the doctor's residence very great, drop three drops 
of the turpentine on a lump of sugar, and give it internally. 
Or a good emetic of blood-root, or lobelia, or both combined, 
should be given. Every family should keep a bottle of spu'its 
of turpentine in, the house. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 213 

Another Remedy. — This remedy is simply alum : Take a 
knife or grater and shave or grate off in small particles about 
a tablespoonful of alum, mix it with about twice the quantity 
of sugar or honey to make it palatable, and administer as 
quickly as possible. The doses should be separated at intervals 
of fifteen minutes, until the phlegm is cut and cast off. This 
will give almost immediate relief. The patient should also 
*bathe his feet in hot water and apply cloths wet in cold water 
to the throat and chest, changing as often as they get warm. 

Whooping Cough.— A teaspoonful of castor oil to a tea- 
spoonful of molasses ; a teaspoonful of the mixture to be given 
whenever the cough is troublesome. It affords relief at once, 
and in a few days effects a cure. The same medicine relieves 
croup, however violent the attack. 

Another Remedy. — Sulphurate of copper, one-half grain ; 
syi'up of poppies, one-half ounce; anise-seed water, one and a 
half ounce ; mix. Dose — one to two teaspoonsful. 

Scarlatina and Measles. — Sesquicarbonate of ammonia 
is antidote to scarlatina and measles. The dose in these com- 
plaints varies fi-om three to ten grains, according to the age of 
the patient, given at longer or shorter intervals, according to 
the mildness or severity of the attack. The suitable dose 
dissolved in as small a quantity of cold water as will admit of 
its being swallowed with as many grains of loaf sugar, merely 
to make it palatable, is all that is required. 

Scarlet Fever Remedy. — One-half ounce each chlorate of 
potassa and hydrochloric acid, and one-half ounce spring water. 
Dose — ten drops in a wineglassfiil of cold water every two 
hours. 

Cure for Smallpox. — Take one grain each of powdered 
foxglove (digitalis) and sulphate of zinc. Rub together 



214 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

thoroughly in a mortar with five or six drops of water; this 
clone, add four or five ounces of water, and sweeten with loaf • 
sugar. Dose — a tablespoonful for an adult, and one or two 
teaspoonsful for a child, every two or three hours, until 
symptoms of disease vanish. 

Lotion to prevent pitting in Smallpox.— Take of nitrate 

of silver, two grains ; rose water one ounce — dissolve. Let 
every vesicle on the face, neck, and bosom be touched with a 
brush wetted in this lotion. 

Each spot as it dries will become black, but that of course 
will peel off with the eruption at the proper time. 

Chicken Pox. — The symptoms are slight feverishness, suc- 
ceeded by a number of red spots, which break out on the face 
and back^ followed in a few days by watery bladders. — Remedy. 
Magnesia, one drachm; rhubarb, half-drachm; powdered ginger, 
ten grains ; divide into twelve doses, and mix each dose in a 
little water; administer occasionally while the disease is preva- 
lent. Give cooling drinks, and let the diet be mild. 

To Relieve Lockjaw. — Let any one who has an attack of 
lockjaw take a small quantity of spirits of turpentine, warm it, 
and pour it on the wound, no matter where the wound is, or 
what its nature is, and relief will follow in less than one minute. 
Nothing better can be applied to a severe cut or bruise than 
cold turpentine ; it will give certain relief almost instantly. 

A White Swelling on the Joints.—Pump on the part 

half an hour every morning, This cures also pains in the 
joints. It seldom fails. 

Another Kemedy. — A stream of cold water one day, and 
warm the next, and so on by turns. Use these remedies at 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 215 

first, if possible. It is likewise proper to intermix gentle 
purges to prevent a relapse. 

Another Remedy. — Boiled nettles applied to the part. 

To Dissolve White or Hard Swellings.— Take white 

roses, elder flowers, leaves of fox-glove, and of St. John's-wort 
a handful of each ; mix them with hog's lard, and make an 
ointment. 

Another Rejviedt. — Hold them morning and evening, in 
the steam of vinegar, poured on red-hot flints. 

Asthma Remedy. — Gather brakes (by some called ferns) 
in the woods ; dry them, place some under the sheet and sleep 
on them. Add a few fresh ones every few weeks, and not 
abandon it as soon as a little better ; continue a year or more. 
This is an old Indian remedy. 

Mixtures for Asthma,— Syrup of squills, four ounces; 
milk of gum ammoniaeum, six ounces; wine of ipecacuanha, 
two ounces ; mix. The dose is a small teaspoonful four or five 
times daily. Expectorant. Infusion of gentian, four ounces ; 
infusion of cascarilla, six ounces; pimple syrup, two ounces; 
mix. Dose — two tablespoonsful three times a day. Tonic. 

Erysipelas. — Tak^e an ounce of cream of tartar to a quart 
of cold water. Dose — half a wineglass full every two^ hours, 
day after day ; keep the bowels open with epsom salts. Apply 
copperas water to keep from spreading. 

Remedy for Bronchitis. — Croton oil it is said will entirely 
remove this complaint. One drop daily rubbed over the surface 
of the throat produces a singular but powerfril eruption of the 
skin, but in course of time restores the voice and thoroughly 
removes all mucus from the part affected. 

Another Remedy. — For soreness in the lower part of the 
throat, and in the breast. Take a dose of senna and salts. 



216 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

apply a plaster of burgundy pitch to the breast, and use light 
diet; rub the throat with a coarse cloth, and avoid exposure 
and heavy exercise of the lungs. If the burgundy pitch is. 
not at hand, the ordinary pitch, melted and spread on a piece 
of muslin or sheepskin, may answer. 

To Cure Salt Rheum. — Mix in an earthen vessel, one 
ounce aqua-fortis, with one ounce quicksilver; when eflfer- 
vescence has ceased, incorporate with it one pound lard and 
one ounce dissolved hard soap ; then work into the mixture 
one ounce prepared chalk and one-half tablespoonful spirits of 
turpentine. 

To Cure Hoarseness. — When the voice is lost, as is some- 
times the case, from the effects of cold, a simple, pleasant 
remedy is furnished by beating up the white of one egg, adding 
to it the juice of one lemon, and sweetening with white sugar 
to the taste. Take a teaspoonful from time to time. It has 
been known effectually to cure the ailment. , 

Sore Throat. — Those subject to sore throats, etc., should 
bathe the neck with cold water in the morning, and use the 
flesh-brush at night, which will be found to reheve them very 
soon. 

An Infallible Remedy for Sore Throat.— Make a poul- 
tice of wormwood, boiled in sweet milk, and apply it to the 
throat. I have known this to give relief in the worst cases in 
eight hours. 

For a Consumptive Cough. — Take half a pound of double 

refined sugar, finely beat and sifted, wet this with orange-flower 
water, and boU it up to a candy height ; then stir in an ounce 
of cassia-earth finely powdered, and use it as with any other 
candy. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 217 

For a Cough and Shortness of Breath.— Take elecam- 
pane roots, one ounce ; saifron, quarter ounce ; ground ivy and 
hyssop, of each one handful. Boil this in two quarts of water 
until it is above half consumed ; strain it out, and sweeten it 
with sugar-candy, and take three spoonsful often. 

Excellent Remedy for a Cough.— Take one ounce Syrup 

of White Poppies ; half an ounce each of Paregoric Elixir and 
Tine. Squills, and one-quarter of an ounce of Tine. Tolu. Mix. 
Dose, a teaspoonful in barley-water. 

Catarrh, or Cold.— This is attended with a cough, copious 
discharges of mucus from the nose, hoarseness and pain in the 
head — take a purge of senna, manna, and salts, drink freely of 
flaxseed tea, slightly acidulated with lemon, and take about 
twenty drops of antimonial wine three times a day ; if there is 
pain in the breast, the pitch plaster is very beneficial ; a tea 
made of a teaspoonful of Cayenne pepper is also very good. 
If it is attended with much cough, make a mixture of an ounce 
of syrup of squills, two drachms of antimonial wine, half an 
ounce of paregoric, with a half pint of water, and take two 
teaspoonsful every quarter of an hour till relieved. 

Dropsy of the Abdomen.— This may be known by a 
swelling or enlargement of the belly, a watery rattling when 
touched ; hardy and scanty urine. It is a most obstinate dis- 
ease to cure, except in the early stage and the early part of 
life ; steaming and warm baths, such as promote free perspira- 
tion, are beneficial ; it has been frequently cured by taking five 
grains of calomel with two of gamboge, every two days ; an 
ounce and a half of cream of tartar, taken in a little water 
daily, has been found a valuable remedy ; wear thick flannel, 
drink no more fluids than are absolutely necessary, and use 
light and digestible animal food, avoiding salted meats, etc., all 
such as create a thirst. 



218 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Excellent Remedy for the Dropsy.— Take sixteen largo 

nutmeg's, eleven spoonsful of broom aslics dried and burnt in 
an oven, an ounce and a half of bruised mustard-seed, and a 
handful of scraped horse-radish ; put the whole into a gallon 
of strong mountain wine, and let it stand three or four days. 
A gill, or half a pint, according to the urgency of the disease 
and strength of the patient, is to be drank every morning fast- 
ing, taking nothing else for an hour or two after. 

Biles.— Take frequent purges of salts — a poultice of soap 
and sugar is frequently used, and is active in drawing the bile 
to a head ; but this preparation is generally too severe ; a mush 
poultice, or one of bread and milk, is generally the best; to 
this, if the pain is severe, a little sweet oil and a teaspoonful of 
laudanum, may be added ; if the bile does not break, it should 
be opened with a lancet ; it should then be healed by a plaster 
of simple cerate, and a compound of beeswax and lard. 

Blotches on the Skin, Pimples, etc. — Take repeated 

doses of salts, or sulphur and cream of tartar ; keep the person 
pure by frequent warm baths, avoid all stimulating drinks, and 
poisonous drugs and powders for the face, and use a light diet ; 
if all this should fail, use the syrup of sarsaparilla. 

Deshler's Original Healing Salve.— As this salve is so 

well known in all parts of the country for its healing properties, 
we append the original receipt for making the same. 

Receipt. Take of mutton tallow, rosin and beeswax, each 
one pound, flaxseed oil two gills, thick turpentine (such aa 
exudes from pine trees or boards) four ounces. Melt the rosin 
and beeswax together first, and stk: them well till thoroughly 
dissolved and incorporated : Then put in the other ingredients 
and keep constantly stirring the whole together over a slow fire, 
till they are all melted and well incorporated ; then remove it 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 219 

from the fire and continue stirring the whole mass till it is cold, 
otherwise the ingredients will separate and spoil the article. 
It may now be put by for use, as it will keep for any length of 
time. 

If it is intended to draw it should be spread thick, but if 
only for healing it shoxild be spread thinly. 

A Cure for Ringworm. — Take yellow-dock root; cut in 
small pieces, and simmer them in vinegar, and, when the 
strength is extracted, strain off the vinegar, which apply to the 
part affected at least three times a day. At the same time, it 
is well to drink a tea made of the same root ; or take some of 
the extract of yellow dock-root, which can be found at any 
drug store. This is infallible. 

A Cure for Tetter. — Take as much mustard as will make 
into a salve mixed with honey ; spread it on a rag, and lay it 
on the sore for twenty-four hours. If the sore is not dead, 
make new salve, and lay it on three or four hours longer. 

Then take the inside of elder-bark and stew it in lard ; put 
in beeswax enough to make a salve; set it by until it gets 
cold. This is to heal the sore. Don't let the sore get wet. 

Then take mullein and boil it in water, and wash with after 
the wound is healed. This is to harden the tender skin again. 

To Remove Proud Flesh. — The following recipe has been 
practised in England for years with great success. It is simply 
this — pulverize loaf sugar very fine, and apply it to the part 
affected. 

Cancer. — Take a quantity of red-oak bark, burn it to 
ashes; to this add water; boil to the consistence of molasses; 
apply it freely to the part affected; leave on for an hour; 
afterward cover the plaster with tar; remove in a few days, 
and if protuberances appear in the wound, apply the plaster 



220 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

and tar, alternately, untU they all disappear ; after which apply 
any healing salve. 

Remedy for Scrofula. — Put one ounce aquafortis in a 
bowl or saucer; drop in it two copper cents; when the effer- 
vescence ceases, add two ounces strong vinegar. The fluid 
wHl be of a dark green color. It should and will smart. If 
too severe, dilute it with a little rain water. Apply it to the 
sore, morning and evening, by a soft brush or a rag. Before 
applying it, wash the sore with water. This receipt comes 
well recommended for curing old sore3 and other scrofulous 
eruptions. 

To Cure Itch. — First Remedy. Rub into the part affected, 
at night, sulphur ointment; wash this off thoroughly in the 
morning, and re-anoint the parts ; continue to adopt this plan 
untU the affection disappears. — Second Remedy. Liquor of 
ammonia, one ounce; camphorated alcohol, one drachm and a 
half; bay salt, half an ounce ; water, one pint ; mix, and rub 
it well into the parts; afterwards use olive oil. 

Pile Ointment. — Take of balsam of copaiva, forty drops; 
lard, one ounce; pulverized nut galls, half an ounce; extract 
of lead, twelve drops; opium, six grains. Make into an 
ointment. 

Use this, and at the same time keep the bowels open with 
small doses of castor oil or balsam copaiva. 

Another Remedy tor Piles. — Make daily use of a 
syringe, with warm water and castUe-soap — a mild and sure 
cure if persevered in. A decoction made of " balm of gilead" 
buds, with alcohol, has cured inveterate cases. 

Liniment for Piles. — Take two ounces emollient ointment; 
half an ounce laudanum. Mix these ingredients with the yolk 
of an egg, and work them well together, and then anoint the 
diseased part or sore. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 221 

Bruises. — Bruises are too often neglected, from the fact 
that the extent of the injury is seldom visible. Soak a piece 
of bread in vinegar, then mash it into a poultice, add a few 
drops of laudanum, and apply it to the part; bruised worm- 
wood and vinegar is also an effective application. Keep 
applying fresh poultices, and bathe the part with laudanum, 
sweet oil and vinegar. 

To Prevent Swelling from Bruises.— Apply at once a 

cloth five or six folds in thickness, dipped in cold water, and 
when it grows warm renew the wetting. 

Remedy for a Sprain. — Wormwood boiled in vinegar, 
and applied hot, with enough cloths wrapped around to keep 
the sprain moist. This is an invaluable remedy. 

Liniment for Sprains. — Compound liniment of camphor 
an ounce and a half, tincture of opium half an ounce. Mix. 
This is an admirable application for sprains and bruises after 
the inflammation has disappeared, and for rheumatism and 
colic when unattended by inflammation. 

Soundness of the Lungs.— The following is one of the 
most unmistakable tests of the soundness or unsoundness of 
the lungs. The patient is directed to draw in a full breath, 
and then b'egin to count, as far as he can, slowly and audibly, 
without again drawing his breath. The number of seconds he 
can continue counting is then to be carefully noted. In con- 
firmed consumption the time does not exceed eight seconds, 
and often less than six. In pleurisy and pneumonia it ranges 
from nine to fourteen seconds. But when the lungs are sound, 
the time will reach as high as from twenty to thirty-five seconds. 

German Cure for Consumption.— Take a pound of pure 

honey, and let it boil gently in a stew-pan ; then, having washed, 
scraped clean, and finely grated with a sharp grater, two large 



■LZL CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

sticks of fresli horse-radish, stir into the honey as much as you 
possibly can. It must remain in a boiling state about five 
minutes, but stirred so as not to burn ; after which put it into 
small earthen pots, or a jar, and keep it covered up for use. 
Two or three tablespoonsful a day, or more, according to the 
strength of the patient, and some time persisted in, is said to 
perform wonders, even where there is a confirmed phthisis 
pulmonalis, or consumption of the lungs. It is also serviceable 
in all coughs where the lungs are greatly affected. 

Another Cure for Consumption. — The following is 
said to be an eff"ectual remedy, and will in time completely 
eradicate the disorder. Live temperately — avoid spirituous 
liquors^ — wear flannel next the skin — and take, every morning, 
half a pint of new milk, mixed with a wineglassfid of the 
expressed juice of green hoarhound. One who has tried it 
says — " Four weeks' use of the hoarhound and milk relieved 
the pains of my breast, gave me to breathe deep, long, and 
free, strengthened and harmonized my voice, and restored me 
to a better state of health than I had enjoyed for years. 

Perfect Cure for a Burn. — Take essence of peppermint 
and whisky, iu proportions of one part peppermint and three 
of spirits, and apply with cloths, and it gives perfect relief 
instantly. Peppermint and sweet oil ,is equally good, put on 
with cotton. This should be always at hand, whenever there 
is danger from such accidents, as it acts like a perfect charm, 
and will not fail to relieve. 

Best Cure for Burns or Scalds.— The best application 

in cases of burns or scalds is a mixture of one part of carbolic 
acid to eight of olive oil. Lint or linen rags are to be saturated 
in the lotion, and spread smoothly over the burned part, which 
should then be covered with oiled silk or gutta-percha tissue 
to exclude the air. The dressing may be left on from two to 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 223 

three days, and should then be re-applied, exposing the burn 
as short a time as possible to the air. 

Another Cure. — Of all applications for a bum, we believe 
that there are none equal to a simple covering of common 
wheat flour. This is always at hand ; and while it requires no 
skill in using, it produces most astonishing effects. The 
moisture produced upon the surface of a slight or deep burn, 
is at once absorbed by the floiir, and forms a protection. 

Body in Flames. — Lay the person down on the floor of 
the room, and throw the table cloth, rug, or other large cloth 
over him, and roU him on the floor. 

Liniment for Rheumatism.— Olive oil and oil of turpen- 
tine of each an ounce and a half, spirit of vitriol three drachms. 
Mix. This wUl be" found excellent for rheumatism, sprains, 
chilblains, and other cases in which active application is 
needful. 

Mixture for Chronic Rheumatism.— Oxymuriate of mer- 
cury, four grains ; spirits of wine, eight ounces. Rub well 
together, and when perfectly dissolved, add antimonial wine, 
fifty drops. Dose — One teaspoonful twice a day. 

Remedy for Inflammatory Rheumatism.— Take one 

ounce pulverized saltpetre and put it into a pint of sweet oil. 
Bathe the parts affected, and a sound cure will speedily be 
effected. 

* Cure for Rheumatic Gout.— Take half an ounce nitre, 
half ounce sulphur, half ounce flour of mustard, half ounce 
Turkey rhubarb, and two drachms powdered gum guaiacum. 
Mix. A teaspoonful to be taken every other night for three 
nights, and omit three nights, in a wineglassful of cold water — 
water which has beep well boiled. 



224 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Bilious FfiVer. — The approach of this disease is indicated 
by a full, hard, and quick pulse, hot skin, white tongue, sick- 
ness of the stomach, and pain in the head. The patient should 
be bled till the pulse is reduced, and take from ten to fifteen 
grains of calomel, followed by a Seidlitz Powder ; the bowels 
should still be kept open by salts and senna, and the patient 
take no other nourishment than rice or barley and cold 
lemonade. 

Typhus Fever. — if the apartment is large, airy, and clean, 
there is little danger from infection. The simple process 
spoken of in another part of this work will prevent any bad 
efiect from the disease. The sheets and body linen should 
be changed. 

Cure for Fever and Ague.— The following, brought from 

the Spanish Main, and said to be an unfailing cui-e for fever 
and ague is highly recommended. Just before the chill comes 
on, have a pot of very strong cofi"ee made and keep it hot, and 
when the first chill is felt, pour out about a pint and squeeze 
the juice of a couple of lemons into it, and a little sugar to 
make it palatable, and drink it ofi", go to bed and cover up 
warm. One trial of this often cures, whilst two or three trials 
never fail. 

Cooling Drink for Feverish Thirst.— One tabiespoonftj 

of cream of tartar ; juice of two large lemons ; a pint of boiling 
water ; sugar to taste ; one wineglass of gin. Mix all to- 
gether. 

Intermittent Fever. — Treat first with an emetic of ipeca- 
cuanha, twenty gi-ains. Work ofi" with chamomile tea, or warm 
water. After which give a gentle purgative of calomel, three 
grains ; compound rhubarb pill, ten grains. Divide into three 
pills, to be taken immediately. Then give the following : 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 225 

Sulphate of quinine, two scruples ; aromatic confection, one 
draclim. Mix and divide into twenty pills ; three to be taken 
morning, noon, and night, and continued for four or five days, 
and repeated afterwards at intervals, to ensure success. The 
bowels must be carefully attended to. 

Apoplexy. — When medical aid is not procurable, rather 
copious bleeding fi-om the arm should be resorted to ; cold 
water should be poured upon the head, and the bowels opened 
by means of active purgatives ; ten grains of calomel may be 
immediately given, and its action promoted by the use of 
saline purgatives and stimulating clysters. The legs may be 
placed in pretty warm water, and blisters applied between the 
shoulders. 

Turn of Life. — Keep the bowels free from costiveness by 
taking two teaspoonsful of white English mustard seed, whole, 
three times a day. If giddiness and occasional pains in the 
head, leeches to the temple will be found very beneficial; and 
if ulcers should break out on any part of the body, they ought 
by no means to be healed up, unless a drain, by means of a 
seaton or issue, be established in some other part. 

Felon. — Soak the finger in strong, warm lye, for half an 
hour at a time, frequently. Also make use of strong poultices. 

A Safe Remedy for a Felon. — Take a pint of common 

soft soap, and stir it in air-slacked lime till it is of the consist- 
ency of glazier's putty. Make a leather thimble, fill it with 
I this composition, and insert the finger therein, and change the 
composition once in twenty minutes, and a cure is certain. 

Cure for a Wen.— The following has proved to be efiec- 
tual. Make a very strong brine, dip in a piece of flannel two 
or three times doubled, and apply it to the wen ; keep it con- 
stantly wet, night and day, until suppuration takes place. 



226 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Pills for Nervous Headache. — Socotrine aloes, powdered 
rhubarb, of eacli one dniclim ; compound powder of cinnamon, 
one scruple ; bard soap, half a dracbm ; syi-up, enough to form 
the mass. To be divided into fifty pills, of which two wDl be 
sufficient for a dose ; to be taken occasionally. 

Neuralgia. — The fumes of sugar snuffed up the nose will 
cure ordinary cases of neuralgia. Put a small quantity of sugar 
on a hot shovel and try it. 

Neuralgia and General Pain Killer.— Take two quarts 

of 95 per cent, alcohol, and add to it the following articles : 
Oils of sassafras, hemlock, spii'its of turpentine, balsam of fir, 
chloi'oform, and tincture of catechu and guaiacum, of each one 
ounce ; oil of origanum, two ounces ; oil of wintergreen, half 
ounce, and gum camphor, half ounce. The above is a nobis 
liniment, and may be successfully employed in rheumatism^ 
bruises, neuralgia, sprains, headache, burns, and spinal affeo» 
tions. 

To Promote the Growth of the Hair.— Eau de cologne, 

two ounces ; tincture of cantharides, two drachms ; oil of rose- 
mary and oil of lavender, of each ten drops. 

For Baldness. — Fill a bottle with powdered lobelia, then 
pour in as much as it will contain of equal parts of brandy and 
sweet oil. In a few days it will be fit for use. Bathe the head 
once a day with this, and it will prevent the loss of hair. It 
is said to restore it when lost. 

A Cure for Earache. — Take a bit of cotton-batting, put 
upon it a pinch of black pepper, gather it up and tie it, dip it 
in sweet oil and insert it in the ear. Put a flannel badge over 
the head to keep it warm. It will give immediate relief 

Best Cure for the Earache, — Drop some warm glyce- 
rine into the ear by means of a quill, and afterwards introduce 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 227 

a piece of wool. Wool plucked from a blanket is the most 
suitable ; the fibres are elastic, and do not coalesce into a hard 
pellet as cotton is apt to do. 

Deafness. — A mixture of ten drops of spirits of turpentine 
with one ounce of almond oil, introduced upon cotton into the 
ears, is serviceable in cases of deafness from a diseased action 
of the ceruminous glatids. 

Another Remedy. — Oil of almonds, one pound, bruised 
garlic, two ounces, alkanet, half ounce ; infuse and strain. 
Applied with a little cotton to the ear. 

Sore Eyes. — Make a decoction of fresh wild turnip, or of 
lobelia ; strain through a fine cloth, and use it for a wash. Or, 
dissolve twelve grains of white vitriol, and sixteen grains of 
sugar of lead in half a pint of water ; or, instead of the water, 
in three gills of milk and use the whey. 

To Strengthen Weak Eyes. — Put a teaspoonful of vine- 
gar to half a pint of water and use it warm two or three times 
a day. 

Salve for a Speck in the Eye, arising from Healed 

Ulcers. — Red precipitate and carbonate of zinc, one and a 
half drachms each ; tutty, half a drachm ; red sulphurate of 
mercury, one scruple ; balsam of Peru, fifteen drops ; lard, two 
ounce*. Mix well. 

Jaw Ache. — Take a dose of salts, and apply a warm poul- 
tice of hops and vinegar to the part. Steaming the part with 
the vapor of vinegar, keeping the body covered at the same 
time with blankets, till a perspiration comes on, is also very 
efiiectual. 

For Filling Decayed Teeth. — Take of quicksilver, ten 

grains ; pure sUver filings, five grains. The mercury and silver 



228 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

will unite and form an amalgana, which after being stuffed 
into the tooth will, in two hours, turn as hard as the tooth 
itself. 

Cure for Tooth-Ache. — it is said that drops prepared as 
follows will cure the worst tooth-ache ever known: — One 
ounce of alcohol, two drachms Cayenne pepper, one ounce 
kerosene oil ; let it stand twenty-four hours after mixing. 

Tooth-Ache Drops. — Laudanum, three parts ; alcohol, five 
parts ; camphor, one part ; pellitory of Spain (powdered), two 
parts ; cassia, one part ; opium, one part. Digest for a few 
days, and decant the clear liquid. Apply by means of a little 
lint. 

Doctor Stoy's Cure for the Bite of a Mad Dog.— 

Take one ounce of red chicken-weed, (gathered and dried in 
the shade during the month of June,) put it into one quart of 
strong (or brewer's) beer, boil it down to one pint. Strain 
the tea through a clean linen cloth, then stir into the tea one 
ounce theriac so that it will be well mixed. The theriac is 
not to be boiled. 

Dose. — For a man with a strong constitution, one half pint 
taken in the morning, sober, and the next morning the other 
half pint, also sober. 

The patient ought to fast three hours after he has taken the 
medicine; then he can eat bread and butter, or bread and mo- 
lasses, for at least a week or ten days ; he must not eat any 
pork, nor any fish or water-fowls, and must not drink any 
water. He can drink any kind of tea, and he must not get 
angry or overheat himself for two weeks. 

For a person of a weak constitution, make three doses out of 
the above-prepared quantity, and also for children in propor- 
tion. Three doses will be sufficient for a cure. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 229 

For animals, the medicine must be doubled ; and its food 
water and wheat bran, to be given warm. 

(This is the original receipt of the celebrated Dr. Stoy, 
which has rendered such valuable service through Pennsyl- 
vania, and we cannot think of letting it pass without notice in 
this work.) 

Hydrophobid. — Wash and cleanse the wound immediately, 
and apply to every part of it " nitrate of silver."*' This de- 
stroys the poison which will come away. If faithfully applied, 
a celebrated physician declares the sufferer perfectly safe. 

Cure for Liver Complaint. — Take half an ounce each 
extract of taraxacum (dandelion) and tartrate of potossa ; forty- 
five grains carbonate of soda; half ounce sweet tincture of 
rhubarb, and six ounces spring water. Dose, a teaspoonful 
three times a day. 

Inflammation of the Intestines.— Severe pain in the ab- 
domen, increased upon pressure, and shooting in a twisting 
manner round the navel ; hardness of the abdomen ; obstinate 
costiveness. There is sometimes vomiting or straining at stool, 
according as the inflammation happens in the superior or in- 
ferior portions of the intestine. The pulse is quick, hard, and 
contracted, and the urine high-colored, and there are other 
symptoms of fever with great prostration of strength. All 
those inducing inflammation of the stomach ; also, strangulated 
hernia, colic, long-continued costiveness. It is distinguishable 
from colic by being accompanied with fever, and by increase of 
pain frqm pressure. The indications of cure are : 1 . To reduce 
the inflammation by bleeding once or twice from the arm, by 
a large blister laid over the belly, by the warm bath, and by 
total abstinence from stimulating articles of diet or medicine. 
2. To move the bowels by gentle purges, as castor oil, salts, or 
cream of tartar ; and by clysters of salt water. 



230 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Bleeding at the Lungs. — Eat of raw table salt freely. Or 
take equal parts qf powdered loaf sugar and rosin four times a 
day ; or drink freely of a decoction of yellow dock root. 

Spitting of Blood. — Syrup of poppies a quarter of an 
ounce ; diluted sulphuric acid, ten drops ; infiision of red roses, 
two ounces and a half One or two tablespoonsful four times 
a day. 

Genuine Syrup for Coughs, Spitting of Blood, &c.— 

This excellent remedy for such frequently very alarming sjrmp- 
toms, cannot be made too public. It is thus made : — Take six 
ounces of comfrey roots, and twelve handsful of plantain leaves, 
cut and beat them well ; strain out the juice ; and, with an 
equal weight of sugar, boil it up to a syrup. 

To Arrest Bleeding at the Nose.— Introduce, by means 

of a probe, a small piece of lint or soft cotton, previously dipped 
into some mild styptic, as a solution of alum, white vitriol, 
creosote, or even cold water. This will generally succeed ; but 
should it not, cold water may be snuffed up the nostrils. 
Should the bleeding be very profuse, medical advice should be 
procured. 

Another Remedy. — Two small arteries branching up from 
the main arteries on each side of the neck, and passing over 
the outside of the jawbone, supply the face with blood. If the 
nose bleed from the right nostril, for example, pass the finger 
along the edge of the right jaw till the beating of the artery 
is felt. Press hard upon it for five minutes and the bleeding 
will cease. 

Bleeding at the Chin. — A person often cuts himself in 
shaving; and perhaps just at the moment when he is in a 
hurry to make his toilet the blood continues to flow obstinately. 
Remedy. — A cobweb placed on the cut will speedily staunch 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 231 

the blood ; or if the arms are raised aloft, and kept in that 
position for a moment or two, the blood will cease to flow. 

A Cure for Diarrhoea. — Put into a bottle three ounces 
pimento, (allspice,) upon which pour one pint best French 
brandy ; sweeten with sugar. 

Dose. — A wineglassful every hour for three hours, for adults. 
For children, dilute, and give a tablespoonful each hour. This 
remedy has been known to cure violent cases of diarrhoea. 

Cure for Summer Complaint.— "Pake two tablespoonsful 

of grated comfrey root and the white of one egg beaten well 
together ; then have ready a boiling pint of milk, into which 
stir the comfrey and egg. It will thicken like " pap," and it 
is not unpleasant to take. 

Dysentery. — One or two doses of rhubarb may be taken 
with good efiect ; the bowels must be regulated by a suitable 
diet. 

Excellent Remedy for Cholera Morbus.— At the com- 
mencement of the disease give plentifully of thin broths, teas, 
or other diluting drinks, to promote the vomiting until the 
offending cause is expelled ; clysters of the same may be given 
every hour. After these evacuations have been continued for 
some time, a decoction of toasted bread may be given, to stop 
the vomiting; or, take lemon-juice, loaf-sugar, and a little 
brandy, pour hot water to it, and drink it after puking. As 
the stomach and intestines are much weakened after this dis- 
ease, an infusion of some tonic bitters in wine may be taken 
for some time. 

Cholera Mixture. — Mix together one ounce essence of 
Jamaica ginger ; two ounces each camphorated tincture of 
opium and aromatic spirits of ammonia ; and one ounce spirits 
of camphor. Dose, a teaspoonful every hour. 



2C3 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Cramp. — An affection usually caused by exposure to cold 
and damp. First Remedy — Foment tlie part affected "with 
warin water, with a little mustard mixed in it ; drink nothing 
cold, and take a little brandy and water ; put the feet in warm 
water, and endeavor to produce a perspiration, take two or 
three times a day a dose of Peruvian bark in a little wine, or 
a little ginger and water. Second Remedy — Take of water of 
ammonia or spirits of hartshorn, one ounce ; olive oil, two 
ounces ; shake them together tQl they unite, and rub it on the 
aflfected part with the hand. 

Cramp in the Stomach. — A sharp, violent darting and 
drawing pain in the stomach ; apply hot bricks to the stomach 
and soles of the feet, and give a teaspoonful of ether with from 
forty to seventy drops of laudanum or paregoric. 

Pills for Costive Habits. — Extract of aloes, twenty grains; 
powdered ginger, half a drachm ; powdered ipecacuanha, eight 
grains ; syrup, sufficient quantity. Mix, and divide into six- 
teen pills. Dose, one about noon. 

Treatment of Epilepsy or Falling Fits.— Take of am- 

moniate of copper, twenty grains ; bread crumbs and mucilage of 
gum arabic, a sufficient quantity to form it into a mass ; which 
is to be divided into forty pills. In the beginning, one of these 
is to be taken three times a day, and gradually increased to 
two, or even three pills, thrice a day. 

Hysterics. — Assafoetida, one drachm ; peppermint water, 
one ounce and a half: ammoniated tincture of valerian, two 
drachms ; sulphuric ether, two drachms. INIix. A dose of 
this mixture is a tablespoonful every second hour. 

Remedy for Disease of the Kidneys.— Boil one ounce 

pareira brava in three pints of water until it is only one pint. 
Dose, a wineglassful three times a day. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 233 

For Pains and Strictures in the Bladder. — Pulver. 

quassia, one drachm ; carbonate of soda, one drachm ; tinct. 
opium, half ounce ; water, five ounces. Morning and evening 
one tablespoonful to be taken. 

Incontinence of Urine. — Take from the hazel-nut the 
inner skin from the meat ; make a decoction by steeping in hot 
water, and drink at intervals through the day. This strength- 
ens the urinary organs, so that a cui-e is speedily effected. 

Another Remedy is a tea made from water melon seeds ; 
drink a teacupful two or three times a day untU relieved. 

Another Remedy. — Put four drops tincture of aconite 
root in a tumbler of water. Dose, a teaspoon ful every hour 
until relieved. 

Gravel. — A disease depending on the formation of stony 
matter in the kidney. First Remedy. The general treatment 
should consist in a hot bath and warm fomentations ; a dose of 
castor oil should be administered, when the bowels have acted, 
if there be much pain, the following may be given : Solution 
of acetate of morphine, one drachm : spirit of hydrochloric 
ether, two drachms ; syrup of roses, half ounce ; camphor mix- 
ture, four ounces ; dose, one- fourth part, to be taken at bed- 
time. Linseed tea or barley water should be drank freely. 
Second Remedy. Infusion of buchu, seven ounces ; tincture of 
musk seeds, one ounce ; sal-volatile, two drachms ; mix ; dose, 
two tablespoonsful once or twice a day. 

Cure for Quinsy. — Simmer hops in vinegar a few minutes, 
until their strength is extracted, strain the liquid, sweeten it with 
sugar, and give it frequently to the patient, in small quantities, 
until relieved. This is said to be an excellent medicine. 

Gargle for Quinsy. — Infusion of roses, five and a half 
ounces ; syrup of roses, half an ounce ; diluted sulphuric acid, 
twenty-five minims. Mix. 



234 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

To prevent the acid from injuring the enamel of the teeth, 
it should be sucked through an acid-tube, or quill, and the 
mouth carefully washed aiiter each dose. 

Mumps. — These are swellings of the glands under the jaw, 
the ear, and down the neck. They render the act of swallowing 
difficult, and are attended with a slight degree of feverishness, 
foul tongue, and -headache. Remedy. Apply warm fomenta- 
tions to the swelling, and immediately afterwards wrap round 
with flannel to prevent cold chilling ; sprinkle on the flannel 
compound liniment of turpentine. Let the diet be light, chiefly 
farinaceous, and keeping the bowels regular by applying mild 
aperients. After the fourth day, take one grain of quinine, in 
fifteen drops of diluted vitriolic acid, in a wineglassfiil of water, 
three times a day for a fort-night. 

Remedy for Diptheria. — Permanganate of potassa haa 
been administered with great success in cases of diptheria. 
The proportions used for external use are one drachm of the 
permanganate to a pint of water , the dose for internal use, 
one teaspoonful of a solution of one drachm in one and a hall 
pints of water. 

HiCCOUyhs. — Take a swallow or two of vinegar, or a long 
draught of cold water. 

Powder for Hiccough. — Put as much dill seed, finely 
powdered, as will lie on a shilling into two spoonsful of syrup 
of black cherries, and take it presently. 

Heartburn. — What is commonly called heartburn is not a 
disease of the heart,, but an uneasy sensation of heat or acri- 
mony about the pit of the stomach, accompanied, sometimes, 
by a rising in the throat like water. First Remedy. One tea- 
spoonful of the spirit of nitrous ether, in a glass of water or a 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 235 

cup of tea. Second Remedy. A large teaspoonful of magnesia 
taken in a cup of tea, or a glass of mint-water. 

Heartburn LozengeS.--Prepared chalk, four ounces; crab's 
eyes prepared, two ounces ; bole ammoniac, one ounce ; nutmeg 
one scruple, or cinnamon balf an ounce. Make into a paste 
with dissolved gum arable. When held in the mouth untU 
they dissolve, they will afford effectual relief. » 

Cure for Dyspepsia. — Take one ounce pulverized rhubarb, 
one ounce caraway-seed, one tablespoonful grated orange peel' 
Put these into a bottle with one pint of pure whisky, shake it 
well together, and keep in a warm place. Dose. One table- 
spoonful in the morning, and at night when going to bed. 
Shake the mixture well before taking it. 

Centennial Cure for Dyspepsia. — Close all the outer 
doors of a four-story house, open the inner doors,. then take a 
long switch and chase a cat up and down stairs till she sweats. 

Debility is a falling off from the usual power of the indi- 
vidual to perform those exertions in which he has been habitu- 
ally engaged. Remedy. Nourishing food, change of air, careful 
regulation of diet, cold shower baths, and the following forms 
of medicine: Sulphate of magnesia, four ounces; sulphate of 
iron, eight grains ; sulphate of quinine, ten grains ; diluted 
sulphuric acid, one drachm ; infusion of gentian-root, eight 
ounces; two tablespoonsful twice or thrice a day. Or, com- 
pound tincture of bark, one ounce ; carbonate of ammonia, two 
scruples ; water, eight ounces ; two tablespoonsful three times 
a day. 

Depression of Spirits. — Sal volatile, combined with cam- 
phor, is more efficacious than most remedies in affording relief 
in depression of spirits, heartburns, spasms, palpitations, etc. 



23G CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Fop Nervous Languors. — Cinnamon bark and nutmegs, 
of each one ounce ; cloves, half an ounce ; eardamon seeds, 
a quarter of an ounce ; dried saffron, one ounce ; prepared 
shells, eight ounces; refined sugar (powdered), one pound; 
water, half a pint. Rub the dry substances mixed together, 
into a very fine powder ; then add the water gradually, and 
mix until the whole is thoroughly incorporated. Dose, from 
ten grains to a drachm. 

Pain in BaciC. — Pains in the back are of many kinds, and 
may result from a variety of causes. Remedi/. If weakness be 
the cause, cold bathing, the shower bath, and squeezing a sponge 
repeatedly down the back, together with vigorous rubbing with 
a rough towel, will be found efficacious. Rest, in a recumbent 
or semi-recumbent position, will also alleviate the pain and con- 
tribute to its removal. 

Another remedy for persons suffering from pain in the back, 
is to place on the part affected either a porous or aconite plaster, 
procured at any drug store. 

Sun-Stroi(e. — The obstruction of heat is the point of at- 
tack ; wait for no doctor, as delay is dangerous ; but strip the 
patient to the waist and pour cold water over the neck and 
chest until consciousness begins to return, or until the intense 
heat is abated. Let him also take the following mixture : 
Infusion of senna leaves, a teaspoonful ; nitre, half a drachm. 
Mix. Half to be taken immediately, the other half in three 
hours. He should also drink plentifully of lemonade or of 
vinegar and water. Linen cloths dipped in cold water and 
vinegar of roses may be applied to the forehead, temples, or all 
over the head. As consciousness returns, slight stimulants 
may be carefully administered. 

Another Cure. — Immediately bruise horseradish and ap- 
ply it to the stomach, and give him gin to drink. Never-failing. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 237 

A Remedy for Snake Bites. — This remedy, it has been 
stated, is a positive cure for snake bites. 

Take an egg and beat it up well, then stir in a tablespoonful 
of gun-powder, and the same quantity of salt. Spread on linen 
and apply on the wound. Soon after it is applied the back of 
the linen will show evidence of the poison by turning green ; 
then apply a second plaster, and continue to change until the 
discoloration of the cloth ceases to be apparent. This remedy 
is said to have cured persons bitten by the most poisonous 
snakes. During this operation, if a decoction of lobelia be 
taken in small doses, it would be very beneficial. 

Poison of tlie Rattlesnake. — iodide of potassium, four 

grains ; corrosive sublimate, two grains ; bromine, five drachms. 
Ten drops of this mixture, diluted with one or two tablespoons- 
ful of brandy, wine, or whisky, constitute a dose, to be re- 
peated if necessary. It must be kept in glass-stoppered phials, 
well secured, as the air will affect it. The salts may, in case 
of emergency, be first dissolved in a little water, before adding 
the bromine, as this dissolves them very slowly. 

List of the Principal Poisons, with their Antidotes or 
Remedies :— 

Oil of Vitriol, Aqua Fortis, Spirit of Salt. — Mag- 
nesia, Chalk, Soap and Water. 

Emetic Tartar. — Oily Drinks, Solution of Oak Bark. 

Salt of Lemons or Acid op Sugar. — Chalk, Whiting, 
Lime, or Magnesia and Water. Sometimes an Emetic 
Draught. 

Prussic Acid. — Pump on back, Smelling-salts to nose, 
Artificial Breathing, Chloride of Lime to nose. 

Pearlash, Soap-Lees Smelling-Salts, Nitre, Harts- 
horn, Sal Volatile. — Lemon-juice and Vinegar and water. 



238 centennial cook book 

Arsenic, Fly Powder, or White Arsenic, King's 
Yellow, or Yellow Arsenic. — Emetics, Lime Water, 
Soap and Water, Sugar and. Water, Oily Drinks. 

Mercury, Corrosive Sublimate, Calomel. — Whites 
of Eggs, Soap and Water. 

Opium, Laudanum. — Emetic Draught, Vinegar and Wa- 
ter, Dashing Cold Water on chest and face, walking ftp and 
down for two or three hours. 

Lead, White Lead, Sugar op Lead, Goulard's Ex- 
tract. — Epsom Salts, Castor Oil, Emetics. 

Copper, Blue Stone, Verdigris. — Whites- of Eggs, 
Sugar and Water, Castor OU, Gruel. 

Zinc. — Lime Water, Chalk and Water, Soap and Water. 

Iron. — Magnesia, Warm Water. 

Henbane, Hemlock, Nightshade, Foxglove. — Emetics 
and Castor Oil, Brandy and Water, if necessary. 

Poisonous Food. — Emetics and Castor Oil. 

To Cure the Stings of Hornets, Wasps, Bees and 

Spiders. — Swelling may instantly be arrested by an applica- 
tion of equal parts common salt and bicarbonate of soda, dis- 
solved in warm water, and well rubbed in on the place bitten or 
stung. 

The Painters' CholiC. — Pains and spasms in the belly 
' and intestines ; eructations or belching, frequent inclinations 
to go to stool, etc. It very frequently tenninates in a palsy in 
the wrists and extremities, or other parts of the body. Castor 
oil in repeated doses is often effectual in producing stools. 
Mercury united with opium is very beneficial, by exciting sali- 
vation. Bub the belly with brandy and camphor mixed, and 
relieve the pain by doses of laudanum, of from forty to eighty 
drops. Bleeding is recommended in violent stages, if the 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 239 

patient is of a full habit. (Blister or mustard plasters have 
also proved efficacious.) 

The following prescriptions are recommended : — 1st. Take 
of calomel, half of a grain ; prepared sulphuret of antimony, 
half of a grain ; conserve of roses, five grains ; make a pill to 
be taken three times a day. 2d. Take sulphate of alum and 
potash, one half scruple ; infusion of roses, twelve drachms ; 
syrup of roses, one drachm. Make a draught to be taken 
three times a day. 

Cure for Flux. — Take four ounces of castor oil, two table- 
spoonsful of pulverized gum arable; two teaspoonsful of pul- 
verized gum kino ; one teaspoonful of laudanum ; mix with one 
pint of warm water, shake well, and take a tablespoonful three 
times a day. I have never known this to fail in the most severe 
cases. 

JaundiCB. — A disease arising from obstruction to the passage 
of the bile into the intestines, from disorders of the liver. 
Remedy. The diet should be cool, light, and diluting — con- 
sisting chiefly of ripe fruit and mild vegetables. The drink, 
barley water or linseed tea, sweetened with liquorice; the bowels 
must be kept gently open. When the disease has abated, con- 
stant doses of Peruvian bark should be given, with good port 
wine; plenty of exercise taken, and a mustard poiiltice placed 
occasionally over the liver. 

To Relieve Night-Sweats. — Dissolve fifteen grains sul- 
phate of quinine in half ounce essence of tansy, quarter ounce 
alcohol, quarter ounce water, and thirty drops muriatic acid. 
A teaspoonful taken two or three times during the day and at 
bed-time. In connection with this remedy, cold sage tea is 
recommended to be used freely as a drink. 

Drowning. — Wipe the body dry and place it on a warm 
mattrass, covered with a blanket, and rub incessantly with 



240 CENTENNIAL 'COOK BOOK 

flannels under the blanket ; keep the head raised, apply liot 
bricks, or bottles full of hot water, under the arm-pits, to the 
feet and thighs, and place hot tiles under the si';ine. Irritate 
the nostrils with a feather and the smell of strong ammonia. 
An injection of warm gruel and turpentine should be thrown 
up the rectum ; turn the body on its side, and use rapid fric- 
tion along the spine with brandy and turpentine. Should these 
means not restore animation, remove the body to a hot bath 
for ten or fifteen minutes, keeping up artificial respiration the 
whole time, by closing the lips with the hand, and inserting 
the pipe of a small pair of bellows into one of the nostrils, and 
while an assistant presses back the larynx, or organ of voice, 
to let the air enter the wind-pipe, inflate the lungs steadily with 
the bellows, forcing out the air by pressing the hand on the 
stomach after every inflation. As soon as the patient can 
swallow, give a little weak wine and water, and when reaction 
commences, an emetic of half a drachm of white vitriol dis- 
solved in a cup of warm water, or, if more convenient, an 
emetic of mustard. To relieve the headache that supervenes, 
bleed or apply leeches to the temples, or apply a blister to the 
nape of the neck. 

To Restore Persons Struck by Lightning.— ^>« 

Remedy. When a person is struck by lightning strip the body 
and throw buckets of cold water over it from ten to fifteen 
minutes ; inflate the lungs, as described in the directions re- 
specting Drowning, and apply continued frictions all over the 
body, apply also blisters to the breast, and administer stimu- 
lants, as brandy and sal-volatile. Caution — As trees, hay- 
stacks, and other elevated objects serve to conduct lightning 
rather than ward it off", a person overtaken by a thunderstorm 
should never seek shelter near these ; it is much better to get 
wet to the skin, than expose one's self to this danger. It is 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 241 

also dangerous to stand near leaden spouts, iron gates, or palli- 
sades, at such times, metals at all times having so strong a 
conducting power for lightning, as frequently to lead -it out 
of the course which it would otherwise have taken. When in 
the house, avoid sitting or standing near a window or door; 
the nearer you are placed towards the centre of the room the 
better. 

Chapped Hands. — This troublesome complaint arises gen- 
erally from not wiping the hands perfectly dry after washing 
them. Remedy — Borax, two scruples ; glycerine, half ounce ; 
water, seven and a half ounces; mix, and apply as a lotion 
twice a day. 

Another Cure. — Instead of washing the hands with soap 
employ oatmeal, and, after each washing, take a little dry oat- 
meal, and rub over the hands, so as to absorb any moisture. 
If oatmeal cannot be obtained, bran will answer the same 
purpose. Dry oatmeal or bran is also an excellent remedy for 
prickly heat. 

Excellent Wash for Numbed or Trembling Hands.— 

These disagreeable complaints are said to be soon, remedied by 
the very simple expedient of frequently washing the hands so 
effected in a strong decoction of wormwood and mustard seed ; 
to be strained, and used when cold. 

Lip Salve. — White wax, three drachms ; spermaceti, one 
and a half drachms ; olive oil, six drachms ; alkanet root, one 
drachm. Melt the wax and spermaceti in a cup, then the oil 
and root in another, near the fire ; then strain through muslin 
or fine linen, and mix with the wax ; then add balsam of Peru, 
one drachm ; essence of bergamot, ten drops ; otto of roses, five 
drops. Mix well together. 



242 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Cold Cream. — Oil of almonds, one pound ; white "wax, four 
ounces ; melt, pour into a ■warm mortar, add by degrees, rose 
water, one pint. It should be light and white. Used as a 
mild unguent to soften the skin, prevent chaps, etc. 

Frost Bites. — Friction with snow or cold water merely 
should be used, until the circulation is somewhat restored, and 
then equal parts of brandy or some other spirit mixed with 
cold water may be applied, until the restoration is completed. 
Frost bites are apt to leave troublesome sores, which are diffi- 
cult to heal. The red precipitate ointment is the best appli- 
cation ; and if much inflamed, they should be poulticed. 

Chilblains. — These sores are caused by frost, and are often 
very painful. Where the skin is not broken, bathe the part 
in strong alum water ; this will cure if continued a week or 
two. Copal varnish is good. Also pig's foot oil will effect an 
immediate cure. 

Another Remedy. — Bathe the feet with a strong solution 
of alum, or a mixture of equal parts of oil of turpentine and 
balsam copaiva. Or, dip a piece of white chalk in vinegar, 
and frequently rub the chilblains with it. Or, bind on thin 
white skin which comes from suet. 

To Cure Itching Feet from Frost Bites. — Take hydro- 
chloric acid, one ounce ; rainwater, seven ounces ; wash the 
feet with it two or three times daily, or wet the socks with the 
preparation until relieved. 

Cure for Ingrowing Nails on Toes.— Take a little tallow 

and pnt it into a spoon, and heat it over a lamp until it be- 
comes very hot ; then pour it on the sore or granulation ; the 
effect will be almost magical. The pain and tenderness will 
at once be relieved. The operation causes very little paia if 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 243 

the tallow is properly lieated; perhaps a repetition may in 
some cases be necessary. 

Corns. — Take half an ounce of verdigris, two ounces of 
beeswax, two ounces of ammonia ; melt the two last ingredi- 
ents together, and just before they are cold, add the verdigris. 
Spread it on small pieces of linen, and apply it after paring 
the corn. This has cured inveterate corns. 

Cure for Soft Corns. — Dip a bit of soft linen rag into 
turpentine, and wrap it around the soft corn ; wet the cloth in 
it night and morning, and in a few days the corn will have 
disappeared ; but the relief of the throbbing,' burning pain, 
comes almost immediately after the first or second application. 
Wear cotton between the toes, and the corns will not reappear. 

Corn Plaster. — Beeswax, one pound ; resin, four ounces ; 
Venice turpentine, eight ounces ; sulphate of copper, eight 
ounces ; arsenic, one ounce. Mix with heat. 

Bunions. — Bunions can be treated the same as corns. 

Offensive Feet.' — The unpleasant smell which the feet of 
some persons give out is generally attributable to some defect 
in the pores of the skin. Remedy — Wash the feet in warm 
water, to which a little hydrochloric acid, or chloride of lime 
has been added. 

Swollen Feet. — Usually a sign of debility. Remedy — Put 
on a bandage moderately tight, from the toe upwards, giving a 
uniform degree of pressure ; take also the following medicine : 
Squill pill and extract of colocynth, of each half a drachm ; 
calomel, one scruple ; digitalis, ten grains ; mix, and make 
into twenty pills. Take two every day. 



244 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

What Shall We Eat? — Here are some of the common 
articles of food, showing the amount of nutriment contained, 
and the time required for digestion : 

Time of Digestion. Amount of Kutriment. 

Apples, raw 1 h. 50 m. 10 per cent. 

Beans, boiled 2 h. 30 m. 37 per cent. 

Beef, roasted 3 h. 30 m. 26 per cent. 

Bread, baked 3 h. 30 m. 60 per cent. 

Butter 3 h. 30 m. 96 per cent. 

Cabbage, boiled 4 h. 30 m. 7 per cent. 

Cheese 5 h. 15 m. 70 per cent. 

Cucumbef, raw 2 per cent. 

Eggs, hard boiled 5 h. 30 m. 25 per cent. 

Fish. boiVd 2 h. 00 m. 20 per cent. 

Milk, fresli 2 h. 15 m. 7 per cent. 

Mutton, roasted 3 h. 15 m. 30 per cent. 

Pork, roasted .-. 5 h. 15 m. 24 per cent. 

Poultry, roasted 2 h. 45 m. 27 per cent. 

Potatoes, boiled 2 h. 30 m. 13 per cent. 

Rice, boiled 1 h. 00 m. 38 per cent. 

Sugar 3 h. 30 m. 96 per cent. 

Turnips, boiled 2 h. 30 m. 4 per cent. 

Veal, roasted 4 h. 00 m. 25 per cent. 

Venison, boiled 1 h. 30 m. 22 per cent. 

According to the above table, cucumbers are of very little 
value. Some vegetables and fruits should, however, enter into 
family consumption, even if purchased for sanitary reasons. 
Among those which contain the most saccharine matter, sweet 
potatoes, parsnips, beets, and carrots are the most nourishing. 




Mil 




CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK AND GENERAL GUIDE. 247 



i^ i.A A 








" Upon Agriculture, the foundation of individual happiness and national prosperity 
must rely for support." — Jackson. 



'S publisher of this work, I have been allotted, by the 
author, this portion of her book, for the purpose of 
'M giving some of my views under this head, and for 
''' the purpose of conveying to the public some hints in 
relation to Agriculture and the Farm. Being an "ex-farmer," 
and having had twenty years practical "experience" and "hard 
work," in that school, I will give a few suggestions on the art 
of cultivation ; but I shall dwell more particularly on the rais- 
ing of stock of all classes ; the modes of curing different dis- 
eases, and invaluable receipts in general in relation thereto. 
Also a few hints in regard to orchards, fruits, the dairy, etc. 

Dia DEEP FOR GOLD.— The following anecdote contains 
some profitable advice : — " An old farmer, on his death-bed, 
told his sons, who were not very industrious lads, that he had 
deeply buried his money in a particular field, which was the 
most barren land on his farm. In consequence of this infor- 
mation, soon after the old man's death, the sons began to dig 
(and they dug deeply too) all over the field — and this they 
did again and again ; for it was long before they quite des- 
paired of finding the money. At length, however, they gave 



248 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



up the searcli, and the land was planted with corn ; when, from 
the deep digging, pulverization, and clearing which it had re- 
ceived in the search for the money, it produced a crop which 
was indeed a treasure." It might result to the profit of some 
of our farmers' sons, should they imagine their fathers had 
deeply buried a bag of dollars in some barren field, and be led 
to dig in search of the treasure — and though they might not 
find the expected wealth, their exertions would be amply re- 
warded, as is illustrated in the anecdote. 

Shallow plowing or "skinning," operates to impoverish the 
soil, while it decreases production. 

Deep pTowing improves the productive powers of every 
variety of soil, and finds nourishment so much below the surface 
as will avoid the eff"ects of drought. It supplies a good and firm 
foundation for all kinds of grains. It does not expose the 
roots to be cut ofi" those crops that need cultivation. Good 
soil is made by exposure of earth to the atmosphere, and who- 
ever wishes to make permanent improvements in the way of 
farming will not fail to plow deep. 

PROPER QUANTITY OF SEEDS REQUIRED PER ACRE. 



"Wheat, - - 1^ 


to 


2 


bushels. 


Peas, - - 


- 2 to 3 bushels 


Oats, - - - 


- 


3 




Blue Grass, 


- - 2 " 


Buckwheat, 


- 


i 




Garden Grass, 


- - 2 " 


Bye, - - - 


- 


H 




Red Top, - 


- 1 to 2 pecks. 


Barley, - - - 


- 


2 




White Clover, 


- - 4 quarts. 


Corn, in drills, 2 


to 


3 




Red Clover, 


- - 8 " 


Corn, in hills, - 


- 


4 




Timothy, 


- - 6 " 


Broom Corn, - 


- 


^ 




Red Beets, - 


- - 3 pounds 


Potatoes, - 10 


to 15 




Rutabagas, 


- - 1 " 


Beans, - - - 


" 


n 


SOUND 


White Turnips 
LOGIC. 


- 2 " 


No food; no 


cattle— 


-no cattle 


, no dung — no 


dung, no grain. 



is a maxim that ought to be firmly fixed in every farmer's mind. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 249 

TO PRESERYE GRAIN. 

A discovery of considerable importance has been announced, 
with regard to preserving grain. To preserve and secm-e it 
from insects and rats, nothing more is necessary than not to 
fan it after it is thrashed, and to stow it in the granaries mixed 
with the chaff. In this state it has been kept more than three 
years, without experiencing the smallest alteration, and even 
without the necessity of being turned to preserve it from humi- 
dity and fermentation. 

TO CORRECT MUSTY GRAIN. 

Take a bushel of grain, and pour on it two bushels of boiling 
water. Let them stand until cold, then skim off the floating 
grains and husks, and discard them ; drain off the water, and 
dry the remainder in a kiln. The musty quahty rarely pene- 
trates through the husk. 

MIX STRAW WITH CLOVER. 
Farmers who have straw or coarse old hay, will find a great 
advantage in mixing them in layers, with hay that is not 
thoroughly made ; the dry stuff will prevent the clover from 
injuring by moisture, and it imbibes sweetness so that the cattle 
will eat it with a good relish. 

EARLY POTATOES IX THE SPRING. 
A method how to get extra early potatoes in the kitchen 
garden. Plant the potatoes in the fall, about eight inches deep, 
put a handful of leaves in with each potato ; then cover the 
ground with fresh horse-manure about six inches thick, and 
you will have potatoes before any spring planting. 

REMEDY FOR FROZEN POTATOES. 
In the time of fi'osts, potatoes that have been affected thereby, 
should be laid in a perfectly dark place for some days after thp 



250 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

thaw has commenced. If thawed in open day, they rot ; but 
if" in darkness, they do not rot ; and they lose very little of 
their natural properties. 

TO PRESERVE CARROTS, PARSNIPS AND BEETS ALL 
WINTER. 

A little before the frost sets in, draw your beets or parsnips 
out of the ground, and lay them in the house, burjang their 
roots in sand to the neck of the plant, and ranging them one 
by another in a shelving position ; then another bed of sand, 
and another of beets, and continue this order till the last. By 
pursuing this method, they will keep very fresh. When they 
are wanted for use. draw them as they stand, not out of the 
middle or sides. 

SIX REASONS FOR PLANTING AN ORCHARD. 

1. Would you leave an inheritance to your children ? Plant 
an orchard. No other investment of money and labor will, in 
the long run, pay so well. 

2. Would you make home pleasant — the abode of the social 
virtues ? Plant an orchard. Nothing better promotes, among 
neighbors, a feeling of kindness and good will, than a treat of 
good fruit, often repeated. 

3. Would you remove from your children the strongest 
temptations to steal ? Plant an orchard. If children cannot 
obtain fruit at home, they are very apt to steal it ; and when 
they have learned to steal fruit, they are in a fair way to learn 
to steal horses. 

4. Would you cultivate a constant feeling of thankfulness 
towards the Great Giver of all good ? Plant an orchard By 
having constantly before you one of the greatest blessings given 
to man, you must be hardened indeed if you are not influ- 
enced by a spirit of humility and thankfulness. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 251 

5. "Would you have your children love their home, respect 
their parents while living, and venerate their memory when 
dead — in all their wanderings look back upon the home of 
their youth as a sacred spot — an oasis in the great wilderness 
of the world ? Then plant an orchard. 

6. In short, if you wish to avail yourself of the blessings of 
a bountiful Providence, which are within your reach, you must 
plant an orchard. And when you do it, see that you plant 
good fruit. The best are the cheapest. 

GENERAL HINTS ON PLANTINQ AN ORCHARD. 

Plow the ground deep before planting. Let the land be 
high. Lowlands are liable to spring frost, and the fruit blos- 
soms are often blighted by them. High situations are also 
more easily drained, which is absolutely essential to the well- 
being of the trees. 

Be careful in planting to give the trees a fair chance for 
life and health by digging the holes in which they are set wide 
and large, so that they may be surrounded by loose earth, that 
can be easily penetrated by the tender fibres of the roots which 
are to convey nourishment for their sustenance and growth. 
A tree properly planted will grow as much in five years as one 
carelessly and badly set in will in ten ; and often the chance 
of survivorship is dependent on slight circumstances. Fill up 
with the surface soil around the roots, placing each rootlet in 
the most natural position. Do not use any barnyard manure. 

Top dress the land with compost, ashes, plaster, or other 
fertilizers. The orchard, after the trees are planted, must have 
a shallow and careful plowing, so as not to destroy the roots of 
the trees. An excellent plan for preventing young fruit trees 
from becoming hide-bound and mossy, and for promoting their 
health and growth, is to take a bucket of soft soap, and to 



252 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

apply it witli a brush to tlie stem or trunk, from top to bottom, 
tins cleanses the bark and destroys the worms or the eggs of 
insects ; and the soap, becoming dissolved by rains, descends 
to the roots, and causes the tree to grow vigorously. 

PREMATURE FRUIT. 

All immature apples, plums, or other fruit, that fall from 
the trees, ought to be eaten by hogs, or be carefully gathered 
up and burnt to destroy the eggs or worms therein contained, 
which will otherwise produce insects to commit depredations 
next year on your fruit trees. 

TO DESTROY THE PEACH WORM. 
It is said that a mixture of one ounce of saltpetre and seven 
ounces of salt, applied on the surface of the ground, in contact 
and around the trunk of a peach tree seven years old and up- 
wards, will destroy the worm, prevent the yellows^ and add 
much to the product and quality of the fruit. — Also, sow the 
orchard with the same mixture, at the rate of two bushels to 
the acre. 

FRUIT TREES NEAR BARN-YARDS. 
We have known peach trees to gsow four feet in a year when 
planted on the margin of a barn-yard, and others every way 
else alike, away from the barn-yard but eight inches. Fine 
crops of peaches and apples may be had by setting the trees 
around such yards. 

TO DESTROY CATERPILLARS ON GOOSEBERRY TREES, &c. 
Get a quantity of elder leaves, and boil them in as much 
water as will cover them, until the liquor becomes quite black, 
then clear and cool it, and to every gallon of this liquor add 
one gallon of tobacco water. When the trees are quite dry 
lay it on with a fine rose water pot, and in ten minutes the 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 253 

caterpillars will fall off. Another -way is to syringe the infested 
trees with a decoction of hlack hllehore. 

TO PRESERVE FRFIT TREES FROM MICE AND INSECTS. 

Apply, early in the fall, around the root a thick layer of 
lime and ashes. It would be well to sink the earth around the 
tree about six or eight inches ; throw in a few shovelsful of the 
lime and ashes, and then cover up with earth, tramping it well 
down. 

Another Preventive for Insects. — Dissolve aloes in 
warm water and paint the trees with it ; then the insects and 
vermin will find them so bitter that they will go away. Tar 
water, or whitewashing the stems with lime is also a good pre- 
ventive. 

TO PROTECT YOUNG TREES FROM HARES. 
Young trees in orchards or plantations, where hares can get 
into, should have prickly bushes tied round their stems, that 
the hares may be prevented from gnawing the bark off. 

TO STOP VINES FROM BLEEDING. 

The most effectual way to do this is to cut the part clean 
with a sharp knife, and afterwards sear it over with a red-hot 
iron. Pruning vines late in autumn, or early in winter, will 
prevent this in a great measure. 

TO DESTROY INSECTS IN VINES. 
Soft soap, two pounds; flowers of sulphur, two pounds; 
powdered tobacco, two pounds ; boil for half an hour in water, 
six gallons. Apply lukewarm. 

NEW METHOD OF GRAFTING. 
Mr. Kent, of Manchester, has published the following 
method of grafting : — " In the first place, I prepare the stock 



254 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

and the graft in the same way as for grafting with clay in the 
common way. I then take a long slip of India rubber, three- ^ 
quarters of an inch broad, and about the thickness of a shilling. 
I tie one end of this elastic ribbon with a thread, well prepared 
by rubbing with shoemakers' wax, to the stock, a little below 
where it is cut for being joined to the graft. I then make the 
joint as neatly as possible, and wrap it round with the ribbon, 
taking due care to keep the India rubber fully stretched, and 
to make it overlap at each turn fully one-half of the breadth of 
the previous round, till the whole is covered. I then tie the top 
with a thread in the same manner that I tied the bottom, and 
the operation is finished." 

After the graft is completely set, remove the rubber bands 
and preserve them for next year's grafting. 

TO MAKE AN EVERGREEN GROW COMPACT. 

If you have an evergreen, or Norway spruce, balsam fir, 
American spruce, or any of the pines, and desire to make it 
grow more compact, just pinch out the bud from every leading 
branch, all around and over it. Eepeat this process again next 
year, at this time, and your evergreens will thereafter grow 
thickly. 

HOW TO PRUNE FLOWERING SHRUBS. 

Flowering shrubs may be pruned when their leaves fall off. 
Cut off all irregular and superfluous branches, and head down 
those that require it, forming them into handsome bushes, not 
permitting them to interfere with, nor overgrow other shrubs, 
nor injure lower growing plants near them. Put stakes to any 
of them that want support, and let the stakes be so covered 
with the shrub, that the stake may appear as little as possible. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. ^«j«> 

TO CLEAR ROSE TREES OF BLIGHT. 

Take sulptur and tobacco dust in equal quantities, and 
strew it over the trees of a morning when the dew is on them. 
The insects will disappear in a few days. The trees should 
then be syringed with a decoction of elder leaves. 

TO EXPAND TULIPS AND OTHER FLOWERS. 

Tulips, and many other flowers, when cut early on a dull, 
cold morning, are seldom very well expanded. If they are 
afterwards placed in a warm room, and their stems put to stand 
in warm water, it will cause them to expand their flowers as 
well as they would have done on the bed on the brightest day 
in spring. This is not only applicable to tulips, but Jo many 
other flowers as well. 

HOW TO DESTROY THE POTATO BUG. 

Paris green, has proved itself to be the best exterminator, 
but as it has been found objectionable to use it dry on the stalks^ 
fi-om the fact of the dust being injurious to health, the follow- 
ing mode of using it will be more advisable : To one barrel of 
water take three-quarter pounds of paris green ; take a common 
watering can, stirring the mixture well before filling it, and 
apply it to the stalk or vine. It has been found, upon applying 
it twice, that all the bugs would be killedHby the process. 

TO FREE PLANTS FROM LEAF-LICE. 
Mix one ounce of flowers of sulphur with one bushel of saw- 
dust ; scatter this over the plants infected with the insects, and 
they will soon be freed, though a second application may pos- 
sibly be necessary. 

THE QUICKEST WAY TO PROCURE GRAPES. 
The quickest method of procuring grapes is to graft into the 
body, near the ground, or which is preferable, into the roots of 



256 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

large vines. In tlie following year, if the graft tas taken, fruit 
will be produced. Thus every farmer, who has wild vines 
growing on his ground, may, by procuring cuttings of hardy 
foreign or native kind, and paying a little attention to the 
grafting and training, be soon and amply supplied with grapes 
for market or wine making. 

GROWING TOBACCO. 
As soon as the frost is out of the ground, burn a brush heap, 
and while it is hot, rake in the seed. When the plants have 
leaves about an inch long, transplant to rich, warm soil, and 
set them out about four feet each way. Keep the weeds down, 
and by all means keep off the "tobacco-worm." Nip off the 
seeds as fast as they come, and let the plants stand until they 
become spotted with yellow spots the size of a five-cent piece ; 
then cut them close to the ground, and hang them over a pole 
in the shed to dry. When sufficiently dry, so as not to break 
the leaves, pack them in a 2:)ile so that they can sweat; then 
hang them up again. 

TO PROTECT DRIED FRUIT FROM WORMS. 
It is said that dried fruit put away with a little bark of sassa- 
fras (say a large handftil to the bushel), will save for years, 
unmolested by thos^troublesome little insects, which so often 
destroy hundreds of bushels in a single season. The remedy 
is cheap and simple, but we venture to say a good one. 

TO PRESERVE GRAPES. 
First, pick off all unsound or unripe grapes, and lay the 
clusters in an empty room on papers until dry, for in all pack- 
ages some will be crushed and dampen others. Then any empty 
crate will do to pack them in. First a layer of grapes, then a 
thickness of paper, so as to exclude the air and keep them 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 257 

separate, then grapes and then paper, and so on until you have 
three or four layers — no more than four. If the box is to 
hold more, put in a partition to support the others that are to 
be packed, I have known grapes to keep until April or May, 
if preserved in this way. 

TO PREVENT THE GROWTH OF BUTTERCUPS, TO THE 
INJURY OF GRASS. 

Geese are very fond of the plant, and the goslings eat the 
flowers and seed-vessels, thus preventing the plants seeding; 
while the old geese scoop up the roots, biting ofi" the leaves and 
rootlets. They eat the bulb with much relish, and if kept in 
sufficient numbers, in proportion to the ground, they will very 
soon root up every buttercup. Thus the geese may be fed, and 
the pastures at the same time improved. 

TO PREVENT THE DEPREDATIONS OF RATS, &c., IN CORN 
STACKS.— FIELD MICE, &c. 

Take one pound of nitre, and one pound of alum ; dissolve 
them together in two quarts of spring water ; get about a bushel 
of bran, and make a mash thereof, putting in two pints of the 
above liquid, and mixing all together. When you build your 
stacks, every second course, take a handful or two of the mash 
and throw upon them till they come to the casing. 

For Field Mice bore holes in the ground to the depth of 
twenty inches, letting the holes be wider at the bottom than 
the top ; drop into these holes some favorite food, and they 
may be captured in enormous numbers. 

KILLING WEEDS. 

Spading the garden in the fall, though beneficial in other 
respects, will not kill weeds. The seeds of the weeds are not 
to be frozen out. The only way to get rid of weed seeds in 



258 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 



the soil is to allow them to germinate, and then kill the young 
plants. If taken at the right time this may be done in the 
garden with the rake. Do not hope to destroy the vitality of 
weed seeds either by freezing or by burying ; as soon as the 
influences are favorable they will grow as sure as fate. 

STANDARD WEIGHTS. 



Wheat, Lbs. per Bushel, 60 

Rye, " " " 56 

Barley, " " " 48 

Oats, " " " 32 

Corn, " " " 56 

Corn, (on Ear) " " " "70 

Potatoes " " " 60 

Onions, " " " 50 

Onion Sets " " " 35 

Clover Seed,.. " " " 64 

Timothy Seed, " " •' 45 

Flaxseed " " " 56 

Grass Seed, Hungarian, " 50 



Hemp Seed, ...Lbs. per Bushel, 42 
Blue Grass.... " " " 14 
Dried Peaches, " " " 33 
Dried Apples, " " " 25 
Canary Seed... " " " 60 

Millet, " " " 50 

Bran " " " 25 

Hominy " " " 60 

Beans " " " 62 

Barley Malt... " " " 34 

Rj-e Malt , " " " 40 

Apple Butter per Gallon, 10 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



259 




DAIRY SCENE. 



There is no one article of family consumption, now in use, 
that is of greater consequence than butter. 

Improvement in the art of making good butter is rapidly be- 
coming a more important consideration to the American dairy- 
man and farmer, as the very marked advance in the develop- 
ments of dairy husbandry attests. 

It will be generally conceded that the production of choice 
butter has never been equal to the demand, evidencing that 
the art of making it uniformly good is as yet comparatively 
limited. 

The first requisite, of coiirse, in making good butter is to 
have good stock, not necessarily full-bTooded stock. For rich, 
highly-colored butter, graded cows of the Alderney breed are 
to be chosen ; whereas, if the quantity of milk only is to be 
regarded, irrespective of its quality, the Ayrshire is the best. 
But whatever may be the breed, the cows must be well treated 
in every particular in order to insure a good article of butter. 



260 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

If the COWS upon which the farmer depends for his butter 
cannot be treated humanely, be well protected from the ex- 
tremes of heat and cold, be fed regularly, and with the food 
experience has shown to be the best adapted for the purpose 
of producing rich milk, he will never earn for himself the 
reputation of being a first-class dairyman. Cows must be well 
protected and fed with great regularity, as well as to the quan- 
tity and quality of the food, as to the times of feeding, in 
order to insure good butter. Indeed, too much emphasis can- 
not be laid* upon the fact, that as the cows are fed and treated 
so will the quantity and quality of the milk be. Poor feed 
and poor treatment will produce poor butter, however elaborate 
and convenient are the arrangements for making it. 

SUMMER PASTURE FOR COWS. 

A mixture of timothy and clover, in proportion of one-fourth 
of the latter to three-fourths of the former, produces the most 
and the best butter, — for color, texture, and taste. Clover 
aJone, from an excess of water in the plant, has a tendency to 
make butter too soft, and consequently, to injure its keeping 
qualities ; but mixed with timothy, in the proportions above 
given, it adds to the butter suiScient moisture, which is lacking 
where timothy alone is given. 

Be sure, also, they can have plenty of pure, running, spring 
or well-water, aud as often as they want it. Do not allow 
them to drink imjiure, stagnant water, unless you desire im- 
pure, stagnant butter. Let them, also, have free access to 
salt, both summer and winter; their instincts will be a better 
guide for the amount they actually need for the purposes of 
health, than any theories upon the subject. 

Have shade-trees for protection during the heat of the day ; 
or, what would be still better, keep them housed during the 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 261 

hottest part of tlie day, for two or three hours, where they can 
be kept cool and free from flies. 

WINTER FOOD FOR COWS. 

The food best adapted in winter is sweet, well cured hay, 
not musty, and free from dust. In the scarcity of hay, clean 
oat straw is adaptable. Bean straw, (which, however, is scarce 
among farmers.) produces very rich milk and cream. Com 
meal, it is a well known fact, produces a good quality of milk 
and cream, and a rich and yellow-colored butter. Roots, turnips, 
carrots, and cake meal are also well adapted for making rich 
milk and cream, and produce increased quantities of it. In 
giving water to cows in winter, it should be reduced to the same 
temperature as in a summer's day. It will add greatly to the 
quality of milk and cream. 

MILKING OF COWS. 

In the first place the bag should be washed clean before 
milking, — not with the milk of the cow, — but with lukewarm 
water, in order more effectively to remove the dirt. The cow 
should be stripped clean, as the last milk is the richest, and 
experiments seem to prove that the highest results are attained, 
both as to quality and quantity of milk, by milking three times 
daily. As soon as the milk pail, which should be made of tin, 
as most easily kept clean, is full, it should be removed at once 
to the milk-room, in order to avoid the milk being tainted by 
the atmosphere of the stable, and in order that it may become 
cool as soon as possible by being strained into the milk-pan. 

MILK-ROOM, TEMPERATURE, ETC. 

Free ventilation, yet with an equable temperature, are essen- 
tial points in determining the value of the milk-room. As 
soon as the milk is brought into the milk-room it should be 



2G2 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

strained through a fine wire strainer into the milk-pans, to the 
depth of five inches in each pan. The size of the pans will be 
determined by the amount of milk to be set. The pans should 
then be set on a shelf made of slats, which will allow the milk 
to cool sooner than if placed on a solid board shelf. It is very 
important that the animal heat in the mUk should be evaporated 
as soon as possible, and the greater the surface of the bottom 
of the pan that can be exposed to the direct influence of the 
air, the sooner will this result be attained. After the milk is 
placed upon the shelf, the pans should be kept perfectly still 
until they are ready to be skimmed. When an even tempera- 
ture of sixty-two degrees is maintained in the milk-room, the 
time necessary for the cream to rise will be from forty to forty- 
eight hours in winter, and from twenty to twenty-four hours 
in summer. But it should be closely watched, and if, before 
that time, white specks appeal* on the surface of the cream, it 
should be skimmed at once, no matter whether the milk is 
sour or not ; for though the temperature of the milk-room 
may be equable, a variation in the quantity of the elements of 
the air, as the presence of more or less oxygen, ozone or elec- 
tricity, will cause the cream to rise at times more cjuickly than 
at others. The food of the cow, also, produces like results. 
The milk, therefore, must be watched closely, and skimmed at 
the expiration of the above-mentioned times, if the white 
specks upon the surface of the cream have not previously 
appeared. 

CHURNING THE BUTTER. 
The length of time the cream should remain before being 
churned will depend upon the amount of milk skimmed each 
day. If there is enough cream each day for a churning, it 
should, of course, be churned. If not, the cream must be set 
aside in a cool place, where it can have a temperature of sixty 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 263 

degrees, be kept covered, and when more cream i? added, it 
should be stiiTed thoroughly, adding a little salt, not more than 
half an ounce to a churning. But it is not well to keep cream 
that has taken from forty to forty-eight hours to rise, 
longer than two days before churning it. As, however, 
the milk is to be watched closely, in order to determine 
the time for skiinming it, so the cream must be watched 
as closely, in order to decide the time for churning it. The 
best practice is to allow it to become only slightly acid before 
churning. Having thoroughly cleansed and scalded the churn 
and dash, the cream should be put in at a temperature of fifty- 
eight deg. ; for the motion of churning will bring it up to sixty 
deg. before the butter comes. The old-fashioned way of throw- 
ing scalding water into the churn, to make butter come more 
quickly, has gone by. It should neverbe resorted to, as it is 
a sure means of making the butter white and ch.eesy, and ex- 
tracting the nutriment and substance from it. 

WORKING, WASHING AND SALTING BUTTER. 
After the butter has come, a quart or two of cold, soft water, 
should be put into the churn, for the purpose of hardening the 
butter, but if extremely hot weather, a lump of ice will greatly 
facilitate the hardening process, and cause it to be more easily 
gathered and taken from the churn. After it has been gathered 
as much as possible with the dash, it should be removed with 
the butter-worker to the table or bowl where it is to be worked. 
It then should be immediately worked thoroughly with the 
butter-worker (never with the hand, for the insensible perspi- 
ration from it will more or less taint butter), using an abun- 
dance of cold, soft water to wash out the butter-milk, and at 
the same time to harden the butter. By washing thoroughly, 
the butter need not be worked so much to free it from the 
buttermilk, and hence there will not be so much danger of 



264 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

injuring the grain of the butter by excessive ■working, wash 
freely, especially where the butter is to be packed, as it •will 
keep longer by being washed. Where it is to be used imme- 
diately there is not the same necessity for washing. 

The butter having been thoroughly washed with cold, soft 
water, it should be salted during the first working, using a little 
salt at a time and working it in, and then adding more, by this 
means securing a uniformity of salting. The salt should, pre- 
vious to its use, be thoroughly pulverized by rolling it, and all 
foreign substances removed from it. If the butter is intended 
for immediate use, one half ounce of salt to a pound of butter 
is sufficient. If it is to be packed, from three-fourths of an 
ounce to an ounce will be necessary. The best salt to use is 
the Liverpool salt of the Ashton brand. It may cost more at 
first, but it is cheaper in the end. 

After the butter has been salted and worked for the first 
time, it should be removed from the vessel in which it has been 
worked to another, covered entirely with cotton cloth, soaked 
in brine, in order to exclude all air, and placed in an even tem- 
perature of sixty deg., where it should remain ten or twelve 
hours, when it is ready to be worked again. This second 
working should be as light as possible, just enough to get out 
the buttermilk left by the first working. The buttermilk must, 
however, be all worked out, or else all the previous labor spent 
upon the butter will be in vain. It may look and taste well 
for a time, especially where an abundance of salt has been 
used, which will absorb a good deal of it, but it will not keep 
well when there is any buttermilk in — the acid of the butter- 
milk after a time causing the butter to become rancid. At the 
end of the second working of the butter it should be imme- 
diately placed in the package in which it is intended to be sent 
to market. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 265 

BUTTER IN ROLLS AND PRINTS. 
Butter prepared in these forms is more for immediate con- 
sumption. A few of the principal markets in the United States 
prefer rolls and prints still, but I think the time is not far 
distant, when both the dealer and consumer will prefer alone 
solid packed butter in tubs, pails and firkins, and discard 
entirely rolls and prints. The process of making is the same 
as for solid packed butter, but owing to its being more exposed 
to the atmosphere a greater quantity of salt is used in preparing 
it, for the purpose of keeping it sweet. 

TO COLOR BUTTER. 

Scrape a large yellow carrot into a tin vessel with two quarts 
of new milk ; let it simmer an hour. When cool, strain it into 
the cream, just before churning. This will do for a small 
churning. 

Increase the quantity of carrot according to the amount of 
cream. This is preferable to annetto, which can be tised where 
carrots are not to be had. 

IMPROVING STRONG AND RANCID BUTTER. 
Butter can be greatly improved in quality and taste, by wash- 
ing and working it over thoroughly with lime-water, and then 
cleaning out the lime-water by a good washing in cold spring 
water. The lime-water is made by allowing a small lump of 
pure lime to slake in a bucket of water, then stir it well and 
allow it to settle. 

TO FRESHEN SALT BUTTER. 
Churn it over in new milk and treat it as if making new 
butter. 

BUTTER PACKING AND SHIPPING. 
The package, before the butter is put into it, should have 
been soaked ten or twelve hours in strong brine, sufficiently 



266 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

strong to float an egg, and the butter should be pressed in it 
hard and evenly, having first put in a thin layer of salt in the 
bottom of it. If the package is not filled by the first packing, 
put it away in a cool place, excluding the air from the butter 
by putting over it a cotton cloth saturated in brine, and by 
covering carefully the package itself As soon as the package 
is filled, having been careful to pack the butter hard and uni- 
formly, it should be covered with a white cotton cloth, from 
which the sizing has been washed, and which has previously 
been soaked in strong brine. Nail up the package and put it 
away in a cool place till such time as it is convenient to market 
it, taking care not to expose it to the heat of the sun during 
its transportation to market. 



The materials employed in making cheese, are the curd 
formed from milk and rennet ; but certain processes are requi- 
site to the due preparation of it. It is necessary for this pur- 
pose that the curd, which is the basis of cheese, and exists not 
in the cream, but in the milk, be separated from it. This is 
done by artificial coagulation, and when the curd is entirely 
freed from the whey, by means of pressing and otherwise, it 
becomes cheese, and will keep for a great length of time free 
from all danger of decomposition. 

TO PREPARE RENNET TO TURN MILK. 

Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour 
it inside and out with salt. After it is cleared of the curds 
always found in it, let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up 
with two handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick, well 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 267 

salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a piece for use, 
which will do over and over again by washing it in fresh 
water. 

TEMPARATURE AMD PREPARATION OF MILK. 
The milk intended for cheese as well as for butter ought to 
be carefully passed through a fine canvas sieve, to deprive it 
of any impurities, such as hairs, etc. That which is produced 
at a single milking is the best, and when brought warm from the 
cow it is the more readily effected by the rennet. The natural 
heat it possesses when taken from the udder is from eighty-five 
to ninety degrees. If it is below eighty-five degrees it must be 
raised to that temperature either by mixing hot water with the 
milk, or placing a vessel containing some of the milk in a cop- 
per of boiling water, and mixing the milk so heated with the 
rest. Much of the success of cheese-making depends upon the 
mUk being of a proper degree of heat when the rennet is put 
into it. 

PROCESS OP MAKING. 
Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a 
natural degree of temperature, same as described in above 
paragraph. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover 
it over. Let it stand till completely turned ; then strike the 
curd down several times with the skimming-dish and let it 
separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking 
the curd, and there will be a difference in the the taste of the 
cheese, according as either is observed ; one is to gather it with 
the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the 
whey pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and ladeling it 
off as it collects ; the other is to get the whey from it by early 
breaking the curd. The last method deprives it of many of its 
oily particles and is therefore less proper. 



268 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd 
by a skimmer, press the curd close with your hand, and add 
more as it sinks, and it must be finally left two inches above 
the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be 
laid at the bottom, and when full drawn smooth over on all 
sides. 

There are two modes of salting cheese : one by mixing salt 
in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out : and the 
other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to 
pieces with it after the first squeezing with the hands has dried 
it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not 
on all, and therefore the custom of the country must direct. 
Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press ; 
in two hours turn it out, and put a fresh cheese-cloth, press it 
again for eight or nine hours, then salt it all over, and turn it 
again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or six- 
teen hours, observing to put the cheeses last made, undermost. 
Before putting them the last time into the vat pare the edges 
if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the 
sides and at the bottom to let all the whey pass through. It 
now only remains to wash the outside of the cheese in warm 
whey or water, wipe it dry, color it with annatto, and place it 
in a cool place to mature or ripen. 

TO MAKE CREAM CHEESE. 

This is made from the last of the milk drawn from the cow at 
each milking, or of a mixture of milk and cream. It is usually 
made up into small pieces, and a gentle pressure applied to 
press out the whey. After twelve hours it is placed upon a 
board or wooden trencher, and turned every day, until dried. 
In about three weeks it will be ripe. Nothing but raw cream, 
turned with a little rennet, is employed, when a very rich 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 269 

cheese is wanted. A little salt is generally added, and fre- 
quently a little powdered sugar. The vats employed for cream 
cheeses are usually square, and of small size. 

TO MAKE SAGE CHEESE. 

Bruise the tops of young sage in a mortar, with some leaves • 
of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in 
the milk, more or less, according as you like for color and taste. 
When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the 
skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above one vat. Press it 
eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. 

DUTCH CHEESE. 

Muriatic acid is used to coagulate the milk instead of rennet, 
and this is said to impart the pungent taste peculiar to the 
Dutch cheese, and also to preserve it from mites. Much of 
the Dutch cheese is made of skimmed milk, and is intended 
for sea stores, as it keeps well, from being much less rich than 
the higher class cheese. 

ROOM FOR CURING CHEESE. 

A dark room is not best adapted for curing cheese. Cheese 
should be exposed to light to obtain the best flavor, and be- 
sides it can be examined more minutely from time to time, 
and freed from the depredations of the skipper. The best 
means to protect cheese from these pests is to make a mixture 
of oil and Cayenne pepper, and apply it to the outside of the 
cheese, as may be required. 

TO PRESERVE CHEESE SOUND. 

Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it 
once a month and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen it 
quick, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole 



270 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

cheese is fresh cut, the larger quantity should he spread with 
butter inside, and the outside wiped to preserve it. To keep 
those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from 
cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. 
Dry cheese may be used to advantage to grate for serving with 
macaroni or eating without. These observations are made 
with a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in 
most families where much is used there is waste. 



AND QENEEAL GUIDE. 



271 




CATTLE AND STOCK SCENE. 

Remedies for Cattle, Sheep & Swine. 



— uyi — 

CO ■^7^7-. 



RULES FOR SELECTING* A GOOD MILCH-COW. 

Her head should be rather long and small ; cheeks thin ; 
muzzle fine ; nostrils large and flexible ; eyes mild, clear, and- 
large ; neck rather long, and slim near the head ; horns long 
and small, and of an orange color ; small ear, inside of a yel- 
lowish tinge ; small breast ; back level and broad, and straight 
to the rump ; well ribbed ; wide in the loin ; flank low ; thighs 
thin and deep ; hind legs small, standing well apart ; forelegs 



272 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

rather small below the knee, above the knee large ; large teats, 
of a dark orange-color ; bag, when empty, lean, soft, and long ; 
large milking veins ; hair short and thick ; large hind-quarters ; 
color briudle, bright red, dun, or a light brown. 

RULES FOR ADMINISTERING MEDICINES TO CATTLE. 

When administering medicines, the age and constitution of 
the animal are to be considered, for a strong and healthy beast 
can bear much more than a weak one. A beast under three 
years old is not to be treated like one of five or six years of 
age, for its bowels are tender. As for a bull of four years old, 
he is to be treated in the same manner as an ox of the same 
age. There are some very small specimens of cattle, whose 
strength and constitution are in proportion to their size, and 
they should be treated accordingly. 

TO MAKE TAR-WATER FOR CATTLE. 

Take one quart of tar, put to it four quarts of water, and stir 
it well for fifteen minutes ; let it stand for half an hour, and 
pour it ofi" for use. Do not put water to the same tar more 
than twice, and give as hereafter prescribed. 

PHYSIC. 

Purgatives are among the most useful of medicines and, 
when properly administered, are of incalculable benefit to the 
husbandman in arresting and curing most of the diseases to 
which his cattle are subject. Great care should however be 
taken that the ingredients used are good, and that too large 
quantities are not given at one time. 

Purging drinks are good for inflammatory complaints, for 
jaundice or for costiveness. They can be given moderately to 
old cattle once in six or eight weeks with much benefit. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 273 

PURGING DRINK. 
Take one pound glauber salts, two ounces powdered ginger, 
half pint molasses ; put all the ingredients together, pour three 
pints boiling water upon them, and give the whole at once, at 
blood-warm temperature. 

BLEEDING. 
Bleeding is necessary, and of great service, in all inflamma- 
tions, fevers, bruises about the eyes, and sprains when accom- 
panied with inflammatory symptoms. It is hazardous to bleed 
when the spirits are too much exhausted or weakened. Ex- 
perience has warranted the rule, that not more than two quarts 
should be taken away at one time. 

POISONS. 

There are several vegetables that are poisonous to animals, 
such as foxglove, wild saffron, deadly nightshade, poison hem- 
lock, branches of the yew, wilted leaves of the wild cherry, 
laurel, crowsfoot, and some others. 

Take two ounces salts tartar, and twelve ounces Epsom salts, 
dissolve in six quarts of water, and give four times a day in 
four equal parts. Give freely of salt in all cases. 

CATTLE CHOKING, 

Turnips and potatoes, and some other substances, often lodge 
in the throat of cattle, and are sometimes difficult to remove. 

Remedies. — Give a pint of strong soap-suds, holding the 
head high. Another : sometimes by stopping the breath a 
moment by holding the windpipe, and starting the animal very 
suddenly, the obstruction will be carried down. 

FLESH WOUNDS. 
Take four ounces linseed oil, three ounces fine salt, half pint 
molasses, one ounce copperas ; boil ten minutes, let it stand 



274 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

until nearly cold, add three ounces turpentine and half an 
ounce oil of vitriol ; make the whole into a salve, and bind on 
a small quantity at a time, changing it daily. When a wound 
has been a length of time in healing, proud flesh will sometimes 
appear. This can be eaten off with a very small quantity of 
red precipitate or blue vitriol. 

RED WATER. 

Take away two quarts of blood, and give physic as pre- 
scribed ; and likewise give injections, if necessary, to bring the 
bowels to a proper state. After bleeding, as above, give four 
ounces Epsom salts, two ounces ginger, half ounce saltpetre, 
three ounces linseed oil, in two quarts of warm water, and keep 
the animal housed for two days. 

LICE ON CATTLE. 

Remedy. — Sprinkling snuff moderately on the animal will 
generally effect a cure. Another: take two ounces tobacco 
leaves, boil in two quarts of water, and apply cold ; this, how- 
ever, is not considered as safe for the animal as fresh butter- 
milk applied lukewarm. 

INFLAMMATION OF THE BOWELS. 

As soon as the disease shows itself, bleed two quarts ; and in 
six hours give a small dose of physic, and give light food for 
three days. 

HOVEN, OR SWELLING. 

Grive half a teacupful spirits turpentine, add to it half pint 
lamp oil. Or, another remedy is eight ounces melted butter, 
give all at one dose. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 275 

COLIC. 

Take two quarts water, add one ounce ginger, one gill rye 
whisky, half pint molasses or half pound coarse brown sugar, 
and give while moderately warm. 

YELLOWS, OR JAUNDICE. 

Take two ounces aniseed, two ounces tumeric root, one ounce 
salt tartar, one ounce castile soap,-one gill molasses ; add one 
quart boiling water, and give blood-warm. 

BLACK TONGUE. 

When it first makes its appearance, put the beast in a warm 
stable ; take the inside bark of white-pine, boil it half an hour, 
add two ounces cream of tartar, and wash the mouth freely ; 
take a small quantity of blood from the neck, and give a quarter 
of a pound of epsom salts ; in two hours give two quarts of 
weak tar-water, and repeat it every eight hours. 

HOLLOW HORN. 

Take spirits of turpentine and vinegar of equal parts, rub 
round the roots of the horns and back of the ears. Keep the 
animal in a warm stable, well blanketed. 

Take one pint of flaxseed, boil in three pints water for twenty 
minutes, add one pint new mUk, strain, and add half pint linseed 
or castor oil, and two tablespoonsful of fine salt, and give as an 
injection. 

BLACK LEG. 

House the beast in a cool stable and bleed two quarts ; foment 
the parts afiected with salt and vinegar ; take half pint linseed 
or castor oil, one ounce ginger, one drachm aloes, and give with 
one quart warm water. 



276 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

WEAK AND INFLAMED EYES. 
WasK them with a tea made of raspberry- leaves and sassa- 
fras bark, adding a small quantity of castile soap. Apply it 
cold. 

HIDE BOUND. 

Take two ounces allspice, two ounces ginger, two ounces 
mustard, one pint molasses ; mix with two quarts warm water, 
and give in two doses, night and morning, after the beast has 
fasted for four hours. 

LOCK-JAW. 
Dash a large quantity of cold water over the animal, repeating 
every four hours, keeping the beast moving about. Another: 
bleed very freely, and follow by a moderate dose of physic. 

LOSS OF cruD. 
Where there is but little fever, give a small dose of salts 
and ginger, or take half pint gin and two ounces ginger ; make 
a cud of boiled clover, or take a cud from another beast and 
divide it. Afterward make a decoction of oak bark, hoarhound, 
and balm, and give for one day with dry food. 

STINGS OF HORNETS AND BEES. 
Dissolve salt in vinegar and bathe for fifteen minutes. 

BITE OF POISONOUS SNAKES. 
Cleanse the wound thoroughly with strong soapsuds, then 
apply a mixture composed of one and a-half ounce hartshorn 
and one ounce olive oil, every four hours for one day; at the 
same time administer a large dose of physic. 

SORE TEATS. 
Bathe the teats with weak soap-suds, then apply cream, new 
milk, or goose oil, night and morning. 



AND GENERAL aUIDE. 277 

LICE AND TICKS ON SHEEP. 

These are found to attack sheep that are poorly kept. The 
only effectual cure is to make a strong brine, or, take half a 
barrel of cold water, adding half pound tobacco leaves boiled 
in four quarts water, and dip the sheep (all except the head), 
pressing as much of the liquid out of the wool as possible after 
dipping. 

ROT. 

Make a strong decoction of the bitter-sweet branches, and 
give half a teacupful every morning, with a good supply of 
salt, and feed on diy food for three days. 

FOOT ROT. 
Whenever the disease appears, let the foot be washed, and 
the hoof pared off as much as possible, not to make it bleed- 
Let the sheep stand upon a dry stable-floor, sprinkled with 
lime, for four hours ; after this he may be kept in a dry pasture 
without further danger. 

PELT-ROT. 
The only remedy for prevention is good feeding, warm keeping 
and anointing the parts from which the skin is off with a thin 
ointment of tar and grease. 

STAGGERS. 
Take half pint fresh butter or lard, and give in a melted 
state. Another : dissolve two ounces assafoetida in three quarts 
of warm water and give two tablespoonsful three times a day. 

FOUL NOSES. 
Lobelia (Indian tobacco), either dry or green, given in a 
weak tea. Or, applying warm tar to the nose, and giving a 
small quantity of tar water, will soon effect a cure. 



278 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

SCOURS IN SHEEP. 
Give fifteen drops of laudanum in a teaspoonful of ginger. 

COSTIVENESS. 
Give half ounce epsom salts or two tablespoonsful of castor 
oil, or feed on green clover for one day. 

INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS. 
Put the sheep into a •warm enclosure, bleed freely, and give 
a tablespoonful of castor oil, or* the same quantity of lard; 
after which give warm nourishing drinks. 

SORE AND SWOLLEN MOUTH. 
Tar-water, or putting tar in the mouth, and a teaspoonful of 
sulphur in oats or bran. Or, an ointment of fresh butter and 
sulphur applied to the affected part will usually effect a cure. 

EATING POISON. 

This is occasioned by eating laurel, wilted leaves of the wild 
cherry, and some other shrubs and plants. 

Take of the twigs of the white-ash, boil for two hours, and 
give half a teacupful of the liquor with a gill of molasses, in 
a lukewarm state, to each sheep. Unless relief be obtained 
within one hour, the dose may be repeated, reducing the quan- 
tity one half. 

TO PROTECT SHEEP AND LAMBS FROM DOGS, FOXES, 
AND WOLVES. 

Take equal parts of sulphur and tar, adding a small quantity 
of aloes, powdered, and smear their necks and legs once a 
mouth through the summer. 

This is said to be a positive means for keeping these "pets" 
at a proper distance, but for myself, if I was a "little lamb" 
I think if I had a lot of "seven shooters" somewhere about 
me, I would be better protected. (My assistant T. L. K. agrees 
with me perfectly in that.) J. B. M., Pub. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 279 

All the different breeds of swine raised in this country are 
so numerous, that it will be impossible to give all the detailed 
or particular descriptions of them. It is, however, .practically 
sufficient to say, that the Old English and the Berkshire are 
considered as decidedly the best, and are to be found in all sec- 
tions of the United States. Under the following headings will 
be found the proper remedies practically requii-ed for curing 
such as the ailments are demanding. 

HOW TO CHOOSE A PIG. 

Whatever the breed may be, it is requisite, in order to make 
a judicious selection, to give attention to certain particulars 
such as the following : — the loin and breast ought to be broad, 
so as to allow abundant scope for the functions of breathing, 
etc. ; the bones ought to be small, and the joints fine ; this 
affords evidence of high breeding, and the better a pig is bred 
the more rapidly will it come to maturity, and the more readily 
it will fatten ; the feet should be firm and sound, the toes 
lying well together and pressing evenly upon the ground; the 
snout not too elongated but somewhat short and convex, rather 
than flat. ' 

MEASLES. 

Remedy. — Give quarter an ounce Epsom salts after fasting 
twelve hours. Another : take two grains powdered antimony 
and give in new milk. Another : give half an ounce sulphur 
twice a week with theu' food. 

SORE THROAT. 
Remedy. — Take a teacupful of molasses, half a teacupful of 
vinegar, a tablespoonful of melted butter and a teaspoonful of 



280 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

black pepper, and give when nearly cold. Feed for two days 
with fresh clover or potatoes and turnips. 

COLDS, COUGHS, OR INFLAMMATION OF THE BRAIN. 

Remedy. — If the cold or cough is not severe, moderate 
purgatives and a warming diet will generally effect a cure, but 
if the disease appears to affect the lungs, bleed one pint, and 
give gentle physic, of Epsom salts or castor oil and sulphur. 

QUINCY. 
Ttemedy. — Bring them into a warm enclosure, and see that 
the issues are well open ; take one quart corn-meal ; one and a 
half ounce Epsom salts, one ounce castor oil, one tablespoonful 
of sulphur, one quart new mUk, and give at once, keeping salt 
and tar in their troughs. 

SWELLING OF THE THROAT IN HOGS. 
Remedy. — Take half a pint of molasses and a tablespoonful 
of hog's lard ; to these add a piece of brimstone an inch in 
length ; melt it over the fire, and when cold, or in a liquid 
state, drench the hog with it, and nine times out of ten it will 
be found to have the desired effect. 

BLACK TEETH. 

Remedy. — As the black teeth not only injure the general 
health as well as the sound teeth, they ought to be extracted. 
Examine and see that the issues are open, give one ounce 
sulphur and one ounce pulverized charcoal, with tar-water, and 
fresh green food. Keep the diseased swine separate from the 
rest for a few days. 

BLIND STAGGERS. 

Remedy. — Examine and see that the issues on the legs are 
open, purge freely, and in six hours after give one gill of 
brandy or rum, and a teaspoonful of pepper. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 281 

ITCH, SCAB, OR MANGE. 

Remedy — Immerse the pig in lukewarm water, and, after 
drying, apply to all the parts affected an ointment made of half 
a pound of lead, and a quarter of a pound of sulphur. If the 
pig is old enough to drink, put a small quantity of sulphur in 
his food. 

SWINE-POX. 

This shows itself by a fine eruption of the skin near the 
joints, and by a redness of the eyes. 

Remedy. — Take half an ounce saltpetre, dissolve it in half 
pint vinegar and a teacupful of sweet or linseed oil, and a table- 
spoonful of honey, and give lukewarm, in three parts, every 
morning. 

UNIVERSAL REMEDY. 

Many farmers, when their swine show signs of illness, feed 
them with corn-meal, mixed with two ounces sulphur and the 
8ame quantity of tar, charcoal, and salt, removing them to a 
warm, dry shelter. This, of course, will not cure all diseases, 
but win prevent most of them assuming a violent form. 



282 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 




TsiE laioiesB. 



TO CHOOSE A HORSE. 

To those unacquainted with this animal, and the arts and 
deceptions often practiced by the horse dealer, it may appear 
unaccountable that as definite instructions cannot be given for 
the purchase of a horse as of other animals. A few general 
directions ai-e all the limits of this work will allow. A short 
trial is the best way of estimating his worth ; but where this 
is not allowed, the following suggestions are submitted, and, 
if followed, will be as sure a safeguard as it is possible to have. 

The Eyes are the first things to attend to, and should be 
well examined, as the best judges are often deceived in them. 
Clearness of the Eyes is a sure indication of their goodness ; 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 283 

but this is not all that should be attended to : the eyelids, eye- 
brows, and all the other parts, must also be considered ; for 
many horses whose ej'es apjiear clear and brilliant, go blind at 
seven or eight years old. Therefore be careful to observe 
whether the parts between the eyelids and the eyebrows are 
free from bunches, and whether the parts round the under 
eyelids be full, or swelled ; for these are indications that the 
eyes will not last. When the eyes are remarkably flat, or 
sunk within their orbits, it is a bad sign ; also when they look 
dead and lifeless. The Iris or circle that surrounds the sight 
of the eye, should be distinct, and of a pale, variegated cinna- 
mon color, for this is always a sure sign of a good eye. 

The Teeth will give a pretty correct idea of the age of a 
horse. Every horse has six teeth above and below ; before 
three years old he sheds his middle teeth ; at three he sheds 
one more on each side of the central teeth ; at four he sheds 
the two corner and last of the fore-teeth. Between four and 
five the horse cuts the under tusks ; at five will cut his upper 
tusks, at which time his mouth will be complete. At six years 
the grooves and hollows begin to fill up a little ; at seven the 
grooves will be well nigh filled up, except the corner teeth, 
leaving little brown spots where the dark brown hollows formerly 
were. At eight the whole of the hollows and grooves are filled 
up. At nine there is very often seen a small bill to the out- 
side corner teeth ; the point of the tusk is worn ofi", and the 
part that was concave begins to fill up and become rounding ; 
the squares of the central teeth begin to disappear, and the 
gums leave them small and narrow at top. 

The Feet should be smooth and tough, of a middle size, 
without wrinkles and neither too hard and brittle, nor too soft* 
the heels should be firm, and not spongy and rotten ; the frogs 
horny and diy ; and the soles somewhat hollow, like the inside 



284 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

of a dish or bowl. Such feet will never disappoint your expec- 
tations, and such only should be chosen. 

The Limbs should be free from splents and windgalls. The 
knees should be straight, and not bending, or what ia called a 
calf's knee : the back sinews strong and well braced : the pas- 
tern joints clean, and free from swellings of all kinds; and the 
hocks lean and dry, and free from spavins, corbs, and flatulent 
tumors. 

The Body, or Carcass, should neither be too small or too 
large. The back should be straight, or have only a moderate 
sinking below the withers : for when the back of a horse is 
low, or higher behind than before, it is both very ugly and a 
sign of weakness. The back should also be of a proper length. 
The ribs should be large, the flanks smooth and full, and the 
hind-parts, or uppermost haunches not higher than the should- 
ers. When the horse trots before you, observe if his haunches 
cover his fore-knees. A horse with a short hind-quarter does 
not look well. 

The Wind is next to be regarded. A broken-winded horse 
always pinches in his flanks, with a very slow motion, and 
drops them suddenly, which may easily be perceived. 

SORE TONGUE IN HORSES. 

Take one part sugar of lead, one part bole ammoniac, and 
two parts burnt alum, the whole to be added to three quarts of 
good vinegar. With this wash out the mouth twice a day. 

SURFEIT IN A HORSE. 
First bleed from the neck ; then give a mash of bran, say 
one gallon, mixed well with hot sassafras tea, in which a tea- 
spoonful of saltpetre and a tablespoonful of sulphur has been 
added. To be given three times a week. Never give the 
horse to drink for half a day after having been fed with this 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. . 285 

mash. As a drink give sassafras tea, with a little saltpetre, 
say one-fourth of an ounce to the quax-t. As an ointment, 
equal parts of sulphur and hog's lard. 

MIXTURE FOR SCOURS. 
Suet cut fine and boiled in new milk, in the proportion of 
one-quarter of a pound to a pint of the milk. To this must be 
added of boiled starch, one pint ; alum, in powder, one drachm. 
Given as a drench. Good both for horses and cattle. 

DISTEMPER, OR EPIZOOTT. 
This distemper usually attacks horses in the spring and fall. 
It first shows itself by discharges from the nose, a cough, 
difficulty of swallowing, soreness and swelling in the glands of 
the throat, and general debility. If it is attended to immedi- 
ately, there is little danger ; otherwise it often proves fatal. If 
the attack is not violent, thorough purging with bran-mashes 
may relieve him ; but if the disease is very severe, bleeding, 
and afterward blistering must be resorted to. The horse must 
be kept warm ; and if the swelling does not subside, a mild 
poultice may be applied. Also the following to be applied in 
the nostrils : — one ounce of roach alum, one ounce of white 
vitriol. Powder these well, put them into a pint of warm 
vinegar, and syringe about an ounce up his nostrils every day. 
This may do good if the disorder be newly caught. 

A COLD OR COUGH. 
Give a quarter of a pound of Epsom salts, and on the follow- 
ing day take the small boughs of the cedar, cut fine and mixed 
with meal or wet oats. Or, take two ounces sulphur, mix with 
human urine, and give with his food. Or, take a handful of 
arsesmart, chopped fine, with hay or grain. Or, boil one 
quart flaxseed half an hour, and give with meal mixed with 
bran. 



286 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

ASTHMA. 

Parsley root, twelve ounces ; well clean, boil in one quart of 
water to a pint; strain, and add oil of sweet almonds, four 
ounces ; tincture of opium, tliree drachms. Give every other 
morning. 

CANKER IN HORSES. 

Tar, one pound ; tallow, one pound ; powdered verdigris, 
four ounces. Mix and apply. 

WASH FOR SORE EYES. 

White vitriol, two scruples ; sugar of lead, one drachm j 
water, one pint. Mix and apply. 

CURE FOR LAMPASS. 

Burn with a hot iron : never cut them out. If they are 
once burnt they wUl not return. 

POLL-EVIL. 

Bring the swelling to a head, as any other tumor, by the 
suppurating poultice, which is made as follows : — 

Take four handsful of bran and three middling-sized turnips ; 
boil them till soft, and beat them well together ; then boil them 
again in milk to a thick poultice, adding to it two ounces lin- 
seed and half pound hog's lard. 

THE STAGGERS. 

Bleed the animal copiously, (the disease is a true apoplexy,) 
two and a half quarts at once ; then give him half a pint lin- 
seed oil, the same of castor oil, forty grains calomel, sixty grains 
jalap, and two ounces tincture of aloes. Give him twice a day 
warm bran mashes. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 287 

FOUNDER IN HORSES. 

Take a quarter of a pound of alum, dissolve it in hot water, 
let it cool, then pour it down the horse. Don't be afraid, it 
will cure. If the horse is stiff, put his feet in hot water, one 
at a time. 

BROKEN WIND. 

Feed with carrots, or parsnips, or beats ; or use tar-water aa 
a drink ; some say lime-water ; and when the cough is bad, 
bleed freely. 

COLIC. 

Castor oil, one pint ; laudanum, one ounce ; oil of pimento, 
one ounce ; in a pint of warm ginger tea. 

GRIPES. 

Laudanum, one ounce ; balsam copaiba, one ounce ; oil of 
aniseed, one drachm ; powdered camphor, two drachms ; in a 
pint of warm ale. 

BOTTS. 

First drench your horse with sweet milk and molasses. 
Second, in a reasonable time drench him again with a quart of 
beef brine. Alum water is good ; so is saltpetre water. A 
purge should always be given soon after the drench. A strong 
solution of salt and water, with a little alum, would perhaps 
be as good as the brine. 

TO CHECK OVER-PURGING. 

Take of prepared chalk, ginger, and aniseed, in powder, each 
one ounce ; essential oil of peppermint, fifteen drops ; rectified 
spirits of wine, half an ounce. Mix the whole in a pint and a 
half of warm linseed gruel, and give it. 



288 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

GENERAL PURGATIVE MIXTURE. 

Take four ounces epsom salts, half ounce nitre, quarter 
pound coarse sugar, dissolve them in one quart of warm water, 
then add six ounces castor oil ; mix well, and give one gill, 
hlood-warm^ morning and evening, until a proper passage be 
obtained. 

SPRAIN OF THE KNEE OR ANKLE. 

Take six ounces tar, six ounces spirits of wine or vinegar, 
four ounces lard ; melt these together by a slow heat (being 
careful not to have them take fire), add flaxseed, to make it 
into a poultice, and apply it until the swelling is removed. 

SWELLINGS. 

When a swelling first appears, bathe it well with vinegar 
having one ounce of saltpetre dissolved in it, after which take 
two ounces extract of lead, two ounces spirits of wine or vine- 
gar, two ounces spirits of sal. ammoniac, five ounces vinegar, 
and half pint of water ; mix and rub the parts well. 

THRUSH, OR FROG-AIL. 

Take six ounces tar, eight ounces whale-oil, four ounces 
spirits of turpentine, two ounces lard ; mix well, and apply to 
the hoofs three times a week. 

WIND GALLS. 

Make a strong decoction of red-oak bark ; add some strong 
vinegar and a little alum in powder. Bathe the parts with 
this decoction as warm as possible twice a day, and bind up 
comfortably tight with woolen cloths dipped in a warm decoc- 
tion of the above. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 289 

SPAVIN. 

Shave off the hair, and apply a blister of Spanish flies to the 
part affected. Bathe with warm strong vinegar, and let the 
horse have rest. 

SCRATCHES IN HORSES. 

Wash with strong soap-suds, then with strong copperas- 
water. Repeat this twice a day until he is cured : for a dally 
drink give sassafras or spice-wood tea, or a little saltpetre dis- 
solved in his drink. 

HOOF OINTMENT. 
Tallow, one pound ; tar, one pound ; black resin, one pound ; 
lard, two pounds ; spirits of turpentine, one pound. Mix and 
apply. 

RELIEF FOR STRING-HALT. 
Bathe with warm vinegar and sweet oil, and rub well the 
part affected. 

LINIMENT FOR GALLED BACKS OF HORSES. 
White-lead moistened with milk. When milk is not to be 
procured, oU may be substituted. One or two ounces sufficed 
for a whole party for more than a month. 

RINGBONE. 
Take one ounce of camphor gum ; one ounce oU of spike ; 
one ounce hartshorn ; one ounce spirits of turpentine. Shake 
well together, and it is fit for use ; put it on above the ring, 
and rub it in with the finger. Use twice a day. 

SAND-CRACK. 
Remove the shoe, and ascertain carefully the extent of the 
injury. If the crack is superficial fill it with the composition 
below, and keep the foot cool and moist. 



290 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

Take four ounces beeswax, two ounces yellow rosin, one 
ounce turpentine, and lialf ounce tallow or suet : to be melted 
together. 

EXCELLENT HORSE AND CATTLE POWDER. 

Take half pound foenugreek-peed in powder, half pound flour 
of sulphur, half pound antimony, powdered, half pound cream 
of tartar, half pound saltpetre powdered. Mix all the ingre- 
dients thoroughly. 

Dose. — One tablespoonful three times a week, mixed with 
their feed ; and if the animal is sick, give every day. 

EXCELLENT HORSE AND CATTLE OINTMENT. 

Tar, one pound ; resin, one pound ; spirits of turpentine, 
one pound ; tallow, three pounds ; oil of vitriol, five ounces ; 
sulphate of copper, five ounces ; alum, five ounces. Mix very 
cautiously. An invaluable ointment. 



The hen is the most highly prized of all of the domestic 
tribes. There are many species of this fowl, each having its 
peculiar excellences, and being more or less productive, making 
it difficult to recommend any of them above the others. Hens 
properly kept, will pay three or four times their first cost and 
feeding yearly. 

TO MAKE HENS LAY IN WINTER. 

Provide a comfortable roost; plenty of sand, gravel and 
ashes, dry, to play in ; a box of lime ; boiled meat, chopped 
fine, every two or three days ; corn and oats, best if boiled 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 291 

tender; all the crambs and potato parings. This treatment 
has proved quite successful — and hens which, without it, gave 
no eggs, with it immediately laid one each, on an average, 
every two days. 

TO DISTINGUISH THE SEX OF EGGS. 

There are two classes of poultry-keepers — those who want 
female eggs only, to rear hens for the sake of their eggs, and 
those who want male eggs only, to produce cocks and capons 
for the table. There is only one outward sign which can be 
regarded as indicating the sex of the egg : it is this, that eggs 
containing the germs of males have generally wrinkles on their 
smaller end ; while female eggs are equally smooth at both 
extremities. 

TO FATTEN FOWLS IN A SHORT TIME. 

Mix together ground rice well scalded with milk, and add 
some coarse sugar. Feed them with this in the day-time, but 
not too much at once : let it be pretty thick. 

FATTENING TURKEYS. 

Experiments have been successfully tried of shutting up tur- 
keys in a small apartment made perfectly dark. They were 
fattened, it is said, in one- quarter of the usual time. The rea- 
son assigned is, that they are thus kept still, and have nothing 
to attract their attention. Yellow corn fed to turkeys, has a 
tendency to make the fat of a yellow color or appearance. 
White oats, or buckwheat, will produce a light color in the fat 
and flesh. 

CURE FOR GAPES. 

Dissolve in water as much soda as it will take up ; then stir 
in your meal or feed until it is thick enough, and give your 



292 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

chickens all they will eat. This is a sure cure, if taken before 
they are too far gone. 

PIP OR GAPES. 

Remove the scab, or white blister, from the tongue, and 
apply salt and vinegar, and give some oily substance with their 
food. Spirits of turpentine, and ginger, mixed with their food, 
is a preventive. 

CHOLERA IN POULTRY. 

Take one tablespoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of Cayenne 
pepper, one tablespoonful of sulphur, one tablespoonful of pul- 
verized charcoal ; mix into a quart of coarse corn meal, and a 
pint of sweet milk, and let them eat freely. This is known to 
be an excellent cure for this disease. 

SCABBY LEGS IN POULTRY. 

The cause of scabby legs in poultry, is a parasitic insect, 
similar to the scab acarus of the sheep. The remedy is — wash 
the legs with a solution of potash, until the scabs are softened 
and peeled off, then dress them with an ointment of lard and 
sulphur, or wash them with carbolic soap suds. 

FLUX, OR LOOSENESS. 

Take ten drops of laudanum and half a pint of water, in 
which soak oats or corn, and give the hen. Or, take the yolk 
of an egg boiled hard, cut up fine, and give with food. 

LICE. 

These are destroyed by placing ashes and sand for the hen 
to wallow in, and by putting a little sulphur in their food. Or, 
immerse them in a weak decoction of tobacco-water, or sprinkle 
snuff over their bodies. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 293 

DESTRUCTION OF INSECTS IN POULTRY-HOUSES. 

Fumigating poultry-houses with sulphur, thrown on glowing 
coals in an earthen vessel, and keeping the house closed for 
several hours, is said to be a perfect remedy for insects of all 
kinds. The poultry must, of course, be removed before the 
experiment. 

HOW TO DRESS POULTRY. 

Farmers and poultry shippers will find it greatly to their 
advantage by caiTying out the following insti-uctions in regard 
to killing and dressing poultry for market. 

Turkeys. — Stick in the mouth or close to the ear, back of 
the head with a small pen-knife, so as not to show a gash ; 
bleed thoroughly ; pick dry while warm, being careful not to 
disfigure or tear the surface of the skin ; leave the head and 
feet on, and entrails in. 

Chickens should be dressed in the same way. Poultry, if 
scalded, will turn black in a very short time, which greatly 
disfigures and depreciates it in value in market. 

Ducks and Geese may be scalded, only be sure to have it 
clean, and free from pin feathers and down. The small downy 
feathers may easily be removed by rubbing plenty of fine rosin 
over them ; must be applied before they are cold. 



CANARY BIRDS. 



The following remedies for the diseases of Canary Birds will 
be found very efiicacious. I have taken those diseases which 
are of most common occurrence, with the most simple and 
efiective cures therefor. 



294 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

INFLAMMATION OF BOWELS. 

This disease may be known by the disappearance of feathers 
from the belly, showing the bare skin and veins. Feed alto- 
gether on lettuce seed and canary. Put a rusty nail into the 
water. This will effect a cure. 

CONSTIPATION OR COSTIVENESS. 

A bit of bread dipped in milk, and a blade of cabbage or 
lettuce will cure it. No seeds to be allowed at all. 

EPILEPSY. 

Repeated bathing in cold water will be found an excellent 
remedy for this disease. 

ASTHMA. 

Take a piece of baker's bread ; soak it in water, and boil it 
well in milk; this to be given with cabbage or lettuce. No 
dry feed or seed. 

DIARRHCEA. 

Put a piece of rusty iron in your water dish. Change the 
water but once a week. Feed on bread boiled in milk, same 
as for asthma. For young canaries and other seed birds, some 
scalded rape seed is a very good remedy. 

LOSS OF VOICE. 

This is produced, not so much from physical defect, as from 
the escape of notes from the memory, generally transpiring 
after moulting. The best means to remedy this is to put the 
bird in close proximity to a good singer, when the voice will 
return after a short time. Do not wash your cage-bottom, but 
scrape it clean with a knife, and then put on some fresh gravel. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 295 

BEES. 

But few persons are aware how early in the season bees eat 
honey faster than they produce it. By not attending to this 
in due time, learning from experience, observation, or the ex- 
periments of others, much is lost. When the weather is dry, 
bees usually consume honey faster than they collect it after the 
middle or 20th of July, unless they have access to buckwheat 
or other suitable flowers cultivated for their use ; in this case 
they may gain honey in September 

This subject is important to bee-masters who follow the old 
system, and destroy the bees when they take the honey. Some 
let them remain till the latter part of Sejjtember, eating honey 
two months after they have ceased to collect any of consequence. 
In our short seasons for collecting honey, and long ones for 
consuming it, the habits of the bees must be studied very at- 
tentively, and there must be the most careful and economical 
management in order to make them profitable. 

METHOD OF TAKING HONEY FROM BEE HIVES WITHOUT 
KILLING THE BEES. 

Pour two teaspoonsful of chloroform into a^ piece of rag, 
double it twice, and place it on the floor-board of the hive, 
which must be lifted for the purpose, the entrance-hole being 
carefully secured. In about two minutes and a half there will 
be a loud humming, which will soon cease. Let the hive re- 
main in this state for six or seven minutes, making about ten 
minutes in all. Remove the hive, and the greater number of 
the bees will be found lying senseless on the board ; there will 
still be a few clinging between the combs, some of which may 
be brushed out with a feather. They return to animation in 
from half an hour to one hour after the operation. This plan 



296 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

possesses a great superiority over the usual mode of brimston- 
ing, the bees being preserved alive ; and over the more modern 
plan of fumigation by puff-ball ; it is far less trouble, and the 
honey does not become tainted with the fumes. 

TO DESTROY THE BEE MILLER. 

To a pint of water, sweetened with honey or sugar, add half 
a gill of vinegar, and set it in an open vessel on the top or by 
the side of the hive. When the miller comes in the night, he 
will fly into the mixture and be drowned. 

TO PURIFY HONEY. 

Expose the honey to frost for three weeks, in a place where 
neither sun nor snow can reach it, and in a vessel of wood, or 
other substance which is not a good conductor of heat. The 
honey is not congealed, but becomes clear. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 297 



SUPERIOR HERB BITTERS. — Take wild cherry bark, two pounds; 
juniper berries, one pound; Virginia snake root, half a pound; gin- 
sing, two pounds; orange peel, one pound; cloves, quarter pound; 
sassafras, half pound. Grind all the ingredients fine. To make the 
tonic, add ten gallons pure rye whisky. 

TO TAKE FROST OUT OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES.— When 

a thaw approaches put the frozen articles into cold water, allowing 
them to remain in it until by their plump, fair appearance the frost 
seems to be out. 

TO PREVENT MILDEW IN WHEAT.— Sulphate of copper, one 
pound; water, four gallons. Dissolve and steep the grain in it for 
one hour. 

WARTS. — Frequently wash them with a strong decoction of oak 
bark, or wet lunar caustic, and rub it on the wart a few times. 

BEST SHAVING SOAP EVER INVENTED.— Take four and a 
half pounds white bar soap, one quart rain water, one gill beef's 
gall, and one gill spirits turpentine ; cut the soap -thin and boil five 
minutes ; stir while boiling, and color with half ounce vermillion : 
scent with oil of rose or almonds. Fifty cents worth of materials 
will make six dollars worth of soap. 

TO SOFTEN HARD WATER.— A half ounce quick lime dipped 
in nine quarts of water, and the clear solution put into a barrel of 
hard water ; the whole will be soft water as it settles. 

TO TAKE THE RUST OUT OF STEEL.— Cover with sweet oil 
well rubbed on it : in forty-eight hours use unslackened lime, pow- 
dered very fine. Rub it till the rust disappears. 

TO MEND CHINA. — To mend broken china, make a very thick so- 
lution of gum arable, and stir it into the plaster of paris until the 
mixture becomes ^viscous paste. Apply it with a brush, and in 
three days the article cannot be broken iu the same place. 



298 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

TO PRESERVE FURS.— Wlien laying up muffs and tippots for 
the summer, if a tallow candle be placed on or near them, all danger 
of moths will be obviated. 

TO CLEAN PLATED-WARE.— Make a paste with whiting and 
alcohol, apply it to the plated articles, and after it is dry, rub it off 
with a brush (if rough), or a soft rag, if smooth. 

PASSOVER CAKES.— These are the unleavened bread of the 
Jews, and are made as thin as possible, and of a very large size. 
First mix and prepare a dough of four pounds of flour with one 
pound of water, roll it out very thin, and about ten inches in diam- 
eter, dock it well on both sides, and bake them in a very hot oven. 

FURNITURE VARNISH.— White wax, eight ounces; oil of tur- 
pentine, one pint ; melt the wax, and gradually mix in the 
turpentine. 

THE BENEFIT OF TOADS.— Never destroy them; keep them 
in your garden to destroy the insects. They will do more to pre- 
serve a garden from such destruction than the labor of man. 

TO PROTECT CHILDREN FROM BURNING.— Add one ounce 
of alum to the last water used in rinsing children's dresses, and 
they will be rendered uninflammable. 

TO EXPEL RATS FROM HOUSES.— Smear their holes and 
haunts with a mixture of two parts of tar to one of lamp-oil, gently 
boiled together. They will not approach it. 

TO REMOVE FRECKLES. — An ounce of alum, and an ounce of 
lemon-juice, in a pint of rose-water. 

TO MAKE THE HAIR GROW RICH, SOFT, GLOSSY, ETC.— 

Take a half pint of alcohol, and castor oil quarter of a gill ; mix, 
and flavor with bergamot, or whatever else may be agreeable. 
Apply it with the hand. 

TO CURL FEATHERS.— Heat them gently before the fire, then, 
Vi^ith the back of a knife applied to the feathers, they will be found 
to curl quickly and well. 

FOR A BOIL. — Butter and oat-meal mixedj^^-O a rather thick 
paste, and laid on. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. ^99 

TO MAKE COMMON SEALING-WAX— To every one ounce of 
shellac take half an ounce of rosin and Vermillion, all reduced to a 
fine poAvder. Place them over a moderate fire and melt them. 

TO PREVENT THE FORMATION OF A CRUST IN TEA KET- 
TLES- — Keep an oyster-shell in your tea kettle. By attracting the 
stony particles to itself, it will prevent the formation of a crust. 

TO PREVENT GRASS GROWING IN A PAVED YARD.— Pour 

boiling -vrater over the stones whenever the grass shows itself. 

TO EXTRACT INK FROM FLOORS.— Scour them with sand wet 
with water and the oil of vitriol, mixed. Rinse them with strong 
saleratus water. 

TO PRESERVE FISH IN A LIVING STATE.— Fish may be pre- 
served in a living state for fourteen days or longer without water, 
by stopping their mouths with crumb of bread steeped in brandy, 
pouring a little brandy into them, and then placing them in straw 
in a moderately cool situation. 

FINE BLACKING FOR SHOES.— Take four ounces of ivory-black, 
three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a tablespoonful of sweet oil, and 
a pint of small beer ; mix them gradually cold. 

WATERPROOF COMPOSITION FOR BOOTS AND SHOES.— 

Boiled oil, half a pint ; oil of turpentine, black rosin, and bees' wax, 
of each one ounce and a half. Melt the wax and rosin, then stir in 
the oil, remove the pot from the fire, and when it has cooled a little, 
add the turpentine. 

TO MAKE ROSE POMATUM.— Melt one ounce white wax, with 
one ounce mutton suet, and add two ounces sweet oil ; color the 
mass with alkanet, and perfume with oil roses. 

TO EXTRACT GREASE SPOTS FROM PAPER.— Apply a little 
powdered pipe-clay, on which place a sheet of paper, then use -a 
hot iron. Remove the adhering powder with a piece of India 
rubber. 

TO MAKE FIVE GALLONS OF GOOD INK.— Take one-half pound 
of extract of logwood; dissolve it in five gallons of hot water ; add 
one-half ounce of bichromate of potash; strain and bottle. 



300 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

TO TAKE IRON STAINS OUT OF MARBLE.— An equal quan- 
tity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, 
shake it well ; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft 
linen till they disappear. 

BLACK JAPAN FOR LEATHER— Boiled oil, one gallon; burnt 
umber, five ounces; asphaltum, five'ounces; lampblack, one pound, 
thin with spirits of turpentine. 

TO PREVENT MOULD IN INK.— Take half a gill of spirits of 
wine, and add to the ink : or, infuse a piece of salt, as big as a 
hazlenut, on each quart. 

TO EXPEL ANTS. — A small quantity of green sage, placed in 
the closet, will cause red ants to disappear. 

MODE OF INCREASING THE POTATO CROP.— An English 

writer says, by carefully removing the buds as they appear on the 
potato vines, the crop of large ones is very much augmented. The 
theory is plausible, and worthy a fair trial. 

LOW OR FEVER DIET.— Panada ; gruel ; milk, thickened with 
arrow-root ; plain bread-pudding ; arrow-root, salep, and tapioca 
jellies ; rice-milk, chicken or veal-tea. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. — Cut tomatoes in pieces, and between every 
layer sprinkle a thin layer of salt ; let them stand a few hours, 
then add a little horseradish, garlic, pepper, and mace. Boil well 
and strain, then bottle, cork, and seal for use. 

TO EXTRACT PAINT FROM COTTON, SILK, AND WOOLEN 
GOODS. — Saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine, and let it 
remain several hours, then rub it between the hands. It will crum- 
ble away, without injuring either the color or texture of the 
article. 

COMPOSITION FOR MATCHES.— Take four parts glue, dissolve, 
and when it is hot, add one part phosphorus, and sift in a few 
spoonsful of whiting to bring it to a proper thickness. This is 
genuine. 

TO RENEW RIBBONS. — Wash them in cool suds, made of soap, 
and iron when damp. Cover with a clean cloth and iron over it. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 3()1 

FOR KEEPING MEAT FRESH IN HOT WEATHER.— Place in a 

clean porcelain bowl, and pour yery liot water over it so as to 
cover it. Tlien pour oil upon the water. The air is thus quite 
excluded and the meat preserved. 

TO BLEACH STRAW.— Straw is bleached by the vapors of sul- 
phur, or a solution of oxalic acid or chloride of lime. It may be 
dyed with any liquid color. 

COLOGNE. — Take one gallon cologne spirits, proof, add of the oil 
of lemon, orange, and bergamot, each a spoonful; add also extract 
of vanilla, forty drops ; shake until the oils are cut, then add a pint 
and a half of soft water. 

PREVENTIVE FROM ANTS ON BARRELS— A chalk mark 
around a sugar barrel protects it from ants. 

TO PREVENT NIGHTMARE.— Avoid heavy suppers, and going 
to bed take the following mixture : Sal-volatile, twenty drops ; 
tincture of ginger, two drachms. 

SUPERIOR PAINT— FOR BRICK HOUSES.— To lime whitewash, 
add for a fastener, sulphate of zinc, and shade with any color you 
choose, as yellow ochre, Venitian red, etc. It outlasts oil paint. 

TO CLEAN WHITE FEATHERS.— Wash them well in soft water, 
with white soap and blue ; rub them through very clean white 
paper, beat them on the paper, shake them before the fire, dry them 
in the air, and afterward curl them. 

TOOTH POWDER. — Mix equal portions of powdered chalk and 
charcoal, adding a quantity of powdered curd soap. This simple 
recipe not only cleanses the teeth, but is a preservative against 
decay. 

GROWTH OF HAIR INCREASED AND BALDNESS PREVENTED. 

— Take four ounces of castor oil, eight ounces good Jamaica rum, 
thirty drops oil of lavender, or ten drops oil of rose, anoint occa- 
sionally the head, shaking well the bottle previously. 

BLOATING IN CATTLE. — A tablespoonful of spirits of ammonia 
for an ox or cow ; a teaspoonful for a sheep or calf. 



302 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

TO PREVENT THE SMOKING OF LAMPS— Soak the Tvick in 
strong vinegar and dry it well. They will of course srnoke, even 
after this preparation, if the wicks are put up too high. 

TO WAGONERS. — Take hog's lard, melt it over a gentle fire, and 
stir it in flour until it becomes a paste. Grease your wagons or 
carriages with it — and yon will never use tar again. 

JOCKEY CLUB, American. — Oil of jasmine, three ounces; oil of 

verbena, half drachm ; oil of rose geranium, half ounce ; oil of cas- 
sia, one drachm ; alcohol, one pint. 

SOAP FROM SCRAPS.— Dissolve eighteen pounds of potash in 
three pailsful of water ; then add to it twenty-five pounds of grease, 
and boil it over a slow fire for a couple of hours. Turn it into a 
barrel, and fill it up with water. 

BEST RED INK. — Take best carmine, two grains; rain water, 
half an ounce ; water of ammonia, twenty drops. This is a beautiful 
ruling ink for ledgers and bank purposes. Add a little gum arable. 

POULTICE FOR A FESTER.— Boil bread in lees of strong beer; 
apply the poultice in the general manner. This has saved many a 
limb from amputation. 

TO MAKE YELLOW BUTTER IN WINTER.— Just before the 
termination of churning, put in the yolk of eggs. It has been kept 
a secret; but its value requires publicity. 

TO DESTROY FLEAS IN DOGS.— Rub olive oil into the dog's 
coat, let it remain on for half an hour, and wash it well out with 
the best yellow soap a'bd warm water. A small portion of any 
sweet oil brushed into the coat of a woolly dog will effectually pre- 
vent its being infected with vermin. 

TO ESCAPE FROM A ROOM OR HOUSE ON FIRE.— Crawl out 

on your hands and knees. The smoke always fills the upper part 
of the room first. 

TO EXTINGUISH FIRE. — Dissolve pearlash, soda, wood-ashes, 
or common salt in the water, before it is put into the engine, and 
direct the jet on the burning wood work. The proportion may be 
twenty pounds to every fifty gallons ; the more, however, the better. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 303 

PASTE FOR CLEANING METALS— Take oxalic acid, one part; 
rotten stone, six parts. Mix with equal parts of train oil and spirits 
of turpentine to a paste. 

TO TAKE OUT FRUIT SPOTS.— Let the spotted part of the cloth 
imbibe a little water without dipping, and hold the part over a 
lighted common brimstone match at a proper distance. The sul- 
phurous gas which is discharged soon causes the spot to dis- 
appear. 

TO CLEAN KNIVES. — One of the best substances for cleaning 
knives and forks is charcoal reduced to a fine powder, and applied 
in the same manner as brick dust is used. This is a recent and 
valuable discovery. 

FOR THE SCARLET FEVER.— Bathe the patient with lye water, 
with a sponge all over, and it will have the most salutary effect 

TO WASH COLORS. — For washing fine and elegant colors, the 
" Scientific American," advises ladies to boil some bran in rain 
water, and use the liquor cold. Nothing can equal it for ease 
upon color and for cleaning cloth. 

COLORING EGGS- — Bind them round with narrow colored rib- 
bons in a tasteful manner, and boil them about ten minutes. The 
ribbons will impart their color to them. Or logwood chips for pur- 
ple, and onion peel for yellow, or loaf-sugar paper for purple. 

TO KEEP GRAPES, PLUMS, ETC.— Put them in layers of cotton 
until your jar is full, cover close, and keep from frost. 

GILDING WITH GOLD UPON SILVER.— Beat a ducat thin, and 
dissolve in it two ounces of aqua regia ; dip clean rags in it and let 
them dry ; burn the rags, and, with the tinder thereof, rub the 
silver with a little spittle ; be sure first that the silver be cleansed 
from grease. 

CEMENT FOR GLASS AND WOOD.— Steep isinglass twenty-four 
hours in common white brandy, then gently boil and keep stirring, 
until the composition is well mixed, and a drop, if cooled, will be- 
come hard as stone. 

TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MAHOGANY.— Spirits of salts, six 
parts ; salts of lemon, one part ; mix, then drop a little on the 
stains, and rub them until they disappear. 



304 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

THE BEST WAY TO TAKE CASTOR OIL— It is not generally 
known that castor oil may be most easily taken mingled with orange 
juice, a little sugar being added if the juice of the orange is not 
sweet. The difference between this and any other mode of taking 
this valuable medicine is surprising. 

TO COLOR FRUIT YELLOW.— Boil the fruit with fresh skin 
lemons in water to cover them, until it is tender; then take it up, 
spread it on dishes to cool, and finish as may be directed. 

TO POLISH STOVES.— Mix black lead with a little alcohol, and 
lay it on the stove with a piece of linen rag, then take a soft, dry 
brush, and rub it to a beautiful brightness. 

MOSQUITOE BITES. — Dissolve sal soda (bleaching powder) in 
water, and with the tip of your finger apply it to the bite, letting it 
dry — the cure is complete. A teaspoonful of the solution is suffi- 
cient for a hundred of bites. 

TO PREVENT WOUNDS FROM MORTIFYING.— Sprinkle sugar 
on them. The Turks wash fresh wounds with wine, and sprinkle 
sugar on them. Obstinate ulcers may be cured with sugar dissolved 
in strong decoction of walnut leaves. 

TO KEEP MOTHS FROM CLOTHS— Put a piece of camphor in 
a linen bag (or some aromatic herbs) in the drawers, among linen 
or woolen clothes, and neither moth nor worm will come near them. 

POTATO SALAD. — Do not regard cold potatoes as waste, but cut 
them into slices, and dress with pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. A 
little parsley, chopped, may be added. This forms an excellent 
salad for the supper table. 

TO CLEAN CANARY BIRDS.— These pretty things may be eflfec- 
tually relieved of lice by placing a clean white cloth over their cage 
at night. In the morning it will be covered with small red spots, 
so small as hardly to be seen, except by the aid of a glass ; these 
are the lice, a source of great annoyance to birds. 

A SUBSTITUTE FOR CREAM.— Take two or three eggs, break 
them into a basin and beat them well, then add half a pint of good 
milk (hot), and beat them again until quite smooth. If milk cannot 
be procured, water may be used instead. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 305 

BED BUG POJSON.— Take one pint alcohol, 2 ounces sal ammo- 
niaj, one pint spirits turpentine, two ounces corrosive sublimate and 
two ounces gum camphor ; dissolve the camphor in the alcohol, 
then pulverize the corrosive sublimate and sal ammonize, and add 
to it, after which put in the spirits of turpentine and shake well 
together. 

TO RESTORE FADED FLOWERS.— Put the flowers into scalding 
hot water, sufliciently high to cover one-third of their stems; let 
them stand until the water is cold, then cut off the soft part of the 
stems and place them in cold water. 

GENUINE WINDSOR SOAP.— Slice the best white soap as thin 
as possible, melt it in a stew-pan over a slow fire, scent it well with 
oil of carraway, and then pour it into a frame or mold made for 
that purpose, or a small drawer, adapted in size and form to the 
quantity. When it has stood three or four days in a dry situation, 
cut it into square pieces and it is ready for use. 

SOAK YOUR SEED CORN IN A SOLUTION OF SALTPETRE.— 

It destroys the worm, is not relished by crows or squirrels, and 
yields much more abundantly than when planted without. 

TO BRONZE IRON CASTINGS.— Thoroughly clean them, and 
then immerse them in a solution of sulphate of copper, when they 
acquire a coat of the latter metal. They must then be washed in 
water. 

TO CLEAN CARPETS. — Having well beaten and brushed, scour 
with ox-gall, which will both extract grease and refresh the colors. 
A pint of gall in three gallons of soft water, warm, will do a large 
carpet. 

SEIDLITZ POWDERS.— Tartrate of soda, one and a half drachm; 
carbonate of soda, one and a half scruple. Mix, and put it in a 
blue paper ; tartaric acid, thirty-five grains, to be put into white 
paper. For half a pint of water. 

TO PURIFY THE BREATH.— Gum catechu, two ounces; white 
sugar, four ounces; orris powder, one ounce. Make into a paste 
with mucilage,. and add a drop or two of neroli. 



30G CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

METHOD OF CLEANING CHINA— Mix a little pearlash or potters' 
clay, or soda, with your water, and it will give them a bright 
appearance. 

ATMOSPHERIC LIQUID HAIR DYE —Nitrate of silver, eleven 
dr., nitric acid, one dr., distilled water, one pt., sap green, three dr., 
gum arable, one dr. 

TO MAKE APPLE BUTTER.— The best apple butter is made by 
peeling, coring and slicing selected sweet apples and stewing them 
in sweet cider. Very little of this sort of apple butter, however, 
comes to market. The bulk of that sold is made from second-rate 
apples, peeled, sliced and stewed, and sweetened with brown sugar. 
A large quantity of such butter is made and sold for^ ships' stores, 
for use by the sailors. 

SHINGLED ROOFS.— Whitewashed with lime, last nearly twice 
as long as roofs which receive no treatment to render them durable. 

NEW ACID FOR DYEING.— Take of the root of the aloe, and by 
the action of nitric acid, a beautiful red color is produced, which 
will be found very useful to dyers. 

TO FASTEN THE TEETH.— Put powdered alum, the quantity 
of a nutmeg, in a quart of spring water for twenty-four hours. 
Then strain the water and gargle with it. 

REMEDY FOR MILK TURNING SOUR.— Add to each quart of 
milk fifteen grains of bi-carbonate of soda. 

TO REMOVE THE SMELL OF ONIONS FROM THE BREATH.— 

Parsley eaten with vinegar will remove. the unpleasant effects of 
eating onions. 

THE BEST OATS ARE ALWAYS THE CHEAPEST.— Oats 

weighing thirty Ibe. per bushel, contains sixteen lbs. of meal, and 
fourteen lbs. of husk. Those at thirty-six lbs. per bushel contain 
upwards of twenty lbs. of meal, and less than sixteen lbs. of husk; 
and, as the weight increases, the proportion of the meal to the husk 
is often greater. 

TO GLAZE LINEN COLLARS.— To give linen collars, shirt bosoms 
and cuffs a nice glaze, add a teaspoonful of scraped white soap and 
one of salt to every pound of starch. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 3U7 

TO RESTORE RUSTY CRAPE— Giu is an excellent thing. Dip 
it in and let it get saturated with it; clap it till dry; smooth it out 
with a hot iron, and it is as nice as when new. 

MUSTARD POULTICE. — Mustard seed, and linseed, of each, in 
powder, half a pound ; hot vinegar, a sufficient quantity. Mix them. 

RASPBERRY SYRUP. — To every quart of fruit add a pound of 
sugar, and let it stand over night. In the morning boil and skim it 
for half an hour ; then strain it through a flannel bag and pour into 
bottles, which must be carefully corked and sealed. To each bottle, 
add, if you please, a trifle of brandy, if the weather is so warm as 
to endanger its keeping. 

TO EXTRACT RANCIDITY FROM BUTTER— Take a small 
quantity, that is wanted for immediate use. For a pound of the 
butter dissolve a couple of tcaspoonsful of saleratus in a quart of 
boiling water, put in the butter, mix it well with the saleratus 
water, and let it remain till cold, then take it off carefully, and work 
a teaspoonful of salt into it. Butter treated in this manner answers 
very well to use in cooking. 

FLAXSEED TEA— DIET FOR THE SICK— Take of flaxseed one 
ounce; white sugar, one and a half ounces; lemon juice, two table- 
spoonsful ; boiling water, two pints. Infuse them in a pitcher some 
hours, and then strain off the liquor. An ounce of liquorice, shaved, 
may sometimes be used instead of sugar. 

TO MAKE WHITE-WASH THAT WILL NOT RUB OFF.— Mix 

up half a pail full of lime and water, ready to put on the wall ; 
then take a quarter of a pint of flour, mix it up with water, then 
pour on it boiling water a sufficient quantity to thicken it ; then 
pour it, while hot, into the white-wash ; stir all well together and 
it is ready. 



308 



CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 




AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



309 



Philadelphia in "1609" and "1876.' 




HILADELPHIA is located upon the Delaware River, 
about 50 miles from its mouth. A city of nearly two 
centuries growth ; the second in the union in point 
of population, and the largest in area ; it may also 
be classed as the sixth metropolis of the civilized world. It is 
also proudly clustered with memories enshrined, dear to every 
American heart. With joy and gratitude may we honor Philadel- 
phia, the birth-place of liberty. Here occurred the most conspicuous 
"event" of all "events" — the immortal "Declaration of Independ- 
ence." To give a minute history of Philadelphia since its infancy, 
(nearly two centuries ago) will be impossible, I will however, review 
a few of the well-known historical facts connected with Philadel- 
phia, as far back as " 1609." The Indian name of the place was 
" Co-a-que-na-que," or "Coaquanock." The banks of the Delaware 
were sparsely settled some time previous to the arrival of Penn's 
Colony, but not above Chester. Penn, however, went farther north, 
and pitched upon the peninsula as the site for tht " great town," 
the river was discovered by Hudson, in 1609. "Delaware" river 
was named after Lord Delaware, (then governor of Virginia,) 
after visiting the "town" in the same year; the founding of the 
province of Pennsylvania was confirmed to Penn, January 5th, 1681, 
under the great seal of England ; the " concession " made was no 
doubt at that time extraordinary, for the " Society of Free Traders" 
were induced to purchase, for four huadred pounds, the entire 
street, (now Spruce) from river to river, with all the lots situated 
thereon. The first colony of adventurous pioneers, principally of 
Friends, to this land, left England in the summer of 1681, in three 



310 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

ships. The first arrival was by the ship Jolin and Sarah, Captain 
Smith; the Amity was carried, in a terrific gale, to the West Indies, 
and did not land her crew until the following spring ; and the 
Factor arrived late in the season, and remained below the future 
city during the entire winter, embedded in the ice. The little 
colony brought up by the John and Sarah suffered extreme distress 
and privation for a time. The founder did not set sail until August, 
1682. He came in the ship Welcome, having previously dispatched 
William Markham as governor of the colony, with instructions to 
make the needful preparations for him upon his arrival. To this 
end the finer parts of the frame-work required in the construction 
of his cottage in Laetitia Court, (engraving of the original cottage 
in another part of book,) were sent out with Markham, and the 
building was erected on a spot which the founder was led to con- 
sider the most picturesque in the vicinity. This venerable structure, 
raised nearly two hundred years ago, still remains with but the 
merest semblance of its former self. It stands in a court penetrating 
the heart of a square bounded by Front, Second, Chestnut and 
Market Streets. It was the first brick building raised in Phila- 
delphia, but to-day it is surrounded by a progeny of giants. The 
antique building has been modernized, and its sign " William Penn 
Hotel," is the only feature which, by contrast, suggests any idea of 
its departed grandeur. When Penn, upon his second visit in 1699, 
lodged in the slate roof house in Second Street, he made a present 
of his former residence to his daughter, Laetitia, " who, being a 
single woman and having no particular use for it," gave it up for 
colonial purposes. The founder, arriving at Newcastle, in 1682, 
proceeded a4; once to Upland, in Delaware County, where the Great 
Law of Pennsylvania was framed. Thence he came up the Dela- 
ware in an open boat, landing at the "Blue Anchor Tavern," which 
stood at the mouth of a little creek, long since filled up, and on a 
site which corresponds to the present intersection of Dock and 
Front Streets. 

In selecting a title for the city, Penn found in "Philadelphia" a 
word which embodied in its inherent meaning the principles he had 
at heart. It was no arbitrary term, bnt implied, as the original in 
Greek has been translated, "brotherly love." He called 'the city 



, AND '"GENERAL GUIDE. 311 

after the ancient metropolis in Asia Minor, over tlie liortal of whose 
time-honored temple was inscribed: "I have set before thee an 
open door, and no man may shut it." 

The first settlers were mostly Friends ; the population increased 
rapidly by emigration from Germany, the north of Ireland, and 
Sweden. The Germans made their settlement at Germantown, 
which was then called one of the inland towns of Pennsylvania — it 
is now the Twenty-second Ward of this city, and contains a larger 
population than did the city of Philadelphia in 1776. The Swedes 
made their settlement in the vicinity of Front and Carpenter ; and 
the Friends began business about Dock Street. 

The city as originally planned by Penn, and surveyed by his 
assistant Thomas Holmes, was a parallelogram two miles long, 
running from the Delaware to the Schuylkill River, by one mile 
wide, running from Cedar or what is now South Street, to Vine 
Street. This rectangle was quadrated by two magnificent thorough- 
fares, easily recognizable to-day in Market and Broad Streets, 
having at their intersection a large open area called Centre Square, 
upon which the new City Hall is now being erected. Each section 
formed by the interlacing of these two broad avenues was allotted 
its square. These four squares, Washington, Rittenhouse, Logan 
and Franklin, — taking the names of historic personages, — form 
to-day the pleasantest of our resorts. 

Philadelphia County, — one of the three originally established by 
Penn, — extended in 1682-3 indefinitely to the northwest, having 
contiguous to it Chester and Bucks. Up to the year 1784 it 
included Montgomery County within its limits ; but it extends now 
along the Delaware from Darby Creek to Poquesink Creek, and is 
bounded on the northeast by Bucks County, on the northwest by 
Montgomery County, and on the southwest by Delaware County, 
embracing a territory twenty-three miles long and averaging five 
and a half broad, having an area of one hundred and twenty-nine 
and one-eighth square miles. With a population of less than one 
thousand, two hundred years ago, it increased to twenty-one 
thousand in 1776, in this Centennial Year Philadelphia can boast of 
about one million inhabitants, occupying 150,000 dwelling houses. 
This exceeds the number of dwelling houses in New York by over 
60,000; Baltimore by over 83,000. and Boston by over 94,000. 



312 CENTENNIAL COOK BOOK 

There are about 9,000 manufactories here, with a capital of nearly 
$250,000,000, and giving employment to about 150,000 people, the 
product of whose labor is almost $450,000,000 annually. Its water 
privileges are unequalled by any other city — the Delaware River oa 
its eastern line is of sufficient depth to float the largest vessels in 
service ; it forms a wharfage front more than twelve miles in length. 
The Schuylkill flows through the centre of a large portion of the 
city. The general health of the city is better than any other city 
in the world. The real estate Of the city, including the property 
not taxable, is valued at $633,592,093, it has over 400 public school 
buildings, in which more than 90,000 children are educated. Places 
of public worship number about 500, with a seating capacity of 
400,000. About 2,000 city railroad cars, running over 300 miles of 
track, caj-rying passengers to almost every part of the city. 

The city is lighted by 10,000 public lamps, supplied, from nearly 
TOO miles of gas mains, while the 15,000,000,000 gallons of water 
used annually is forced through about 650 miles of water-pipe. 

Post Office employs 227 carriers, who deliver to Philadelphians 
17,891,T36 mail letters a year, 9,760,824 local letters, and 8,693,361 
newspapers. About the same number of mail letters are collected 
by carriers. 

Having given a minute history of Philadelphia for the last two 
centuries, I cannot pass over it without calling atttention to the 
numerous public squares confined ■^ithin its lixnits, where strangers 
and those residing in the city may find a spot to enjoy the cool air 
and balmy breeze for a short time, during the hot, sultry days of 
summer, and be refreshed thereby. 

The four principal and oldest squares, (as spoken of in the pre- 
ceding pages,) are still in existence, and though long condemned to 
obscurity and neglect, they are now restored, and are fulfilling their 
mission as "breathing spots" for our citizens. 

Washington Square is at Sixth and Walnut Streets; close beside 
■what was once the State-House Yard, now called the Independence 
Square, in grateful remembrance that in it liberty was first pro- 
claimed to the people. This square was once used as a " Potters 
Field," many soldiers, victims of the small-pox and camp-fever, 
were buried here during the revolution. 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 313 

Independence Square, between Fifth, Sixth, Chestnut and Walnut 
Streets, was formerly the property of the State, and was conveyed 
to -the city with the proviso, that it should be kept open as a public 
square. 

Franklin Square is between Sixth, Vine, Race, and Franklin 
Streets. A handsome square, with a beautiful fountain in the centre. 

Logan Square, bounded by Race, Vine, Eighteenth and Nineteenth 
Streets. 

Rittenhouse Square, between Walnut, Locust, Eighteenth .and 
Nineteenth Streets. In the neighborhood of these last two squares 
are many elegant private residences. 

Penn Squares were situated at Broad and Market Streets. The 
court house and offices of the officers of the city and county are 
being erected here. It was so intended by William Penn, and in 
accordance with the wishes of the majority of the citizens, who 
voted in favor of it. 

Norris Square, given to the city by Isaac Parker Norris, is 
bounded by Susquehanna Avenue and Hancock, Diamond and 
Howard Streets. 

Jefferson Square, west from Third Street and south from Washing- 
ton Avenue. 

There are a few more smaller ones in diflFerent parts of the city, 
but not of much note. 

But the grandest spot of all, and one that Philadglphians may 
well be proud of, is " Fairmount Park." I shall not dwell upon its 
beauties here, but will devote a separate chapter to it in another 
part of this book, and give a full description of it by means of 
illustrations, which will convey a better idea of its grandeur than 
I could write. 



314 




PENX'S TREATY. 

Almost the first effort of Penn after he reached these shores ■was 
to bring together the Indians from various parts, to form a treaty of 
peace and friendship. In this he was successful. They met in 
Philadelphia, and made the treaty at a spot which Is now called 
Kensington, under an .elm tree. Upon the spot where stood that 
tree is erected now a monument to the memory of Penn, known by 
all residents as the " Penn Treaty Monument." This treaty was 
never broken. 



315 



p 
a 








^ 


&. 


*3 


*t3 


3 


s 






_p' 


P_ 


■-d 


o 

D 


3 

o 


35 

•-1 
to 


w 

t? 
^ 


P 


cr 


£2 


c-»- 


a 


Q 


P 




cc 


a- 

02 


CO 



re 


re 


3 


Q 


C 


^* 


51 


3 


o 


c* 


P 


re 


C/3 


o 

a 


p 
p 


re 


D 
o 
re 




m 




J^. 


p' 


o 


re 


p 


P 




CO 




1 
re 


E 


> 






re 


p 


H 




Bjl ^^/,(^0,,,,y,^„//|A 



05 

a 

o 
•=1 







This statue stands in the yard of the Pennsylvania Hospital, 
Ninth and Pine Streets. It was presented bj"his grandson, John 
Penn, in 1801. 



316 



^ 




This is the oldest Church in Philadelphia, having been erected in 
lYOO. In 167'7 a log house was built on the present site of this 
Church by the Swedes. This relic of olden times is situated on 
Swanson Street, below Christian. 



317 








CHRIST CHURCH. 

Christ Church is located on Second Street above Market, west 
Bide, built in 1695. The first pastor was Rev. Mr. Clayton. The 
steeple is one hundred and ninety-six feet in height. It has eight 
chimes of bells, made in London, brought over in the ship " Myrtilla." 
Washington and Franklin each had a pew in this Church, and 
regularly attended with their families at divine worship. 



318 





319 



,,5!"^ i*r-r-.r-.rtS 




"^uiiiN i' 



Carpenter's Hall is located iu Carpenter's Court, running south 
from Chestnut Street, a few paces east from Fourth Street. On the 
5th of September, 1774, the first Continental Congress met in this 
Hall and commenced their deliberations, which, on the 4th of July, 
1776, ultiipated in declaring the colonies free and independent. 



320 



I j|t;i,|| j IJjHij i !iili!lili-^^ i„!IIIEhi*l:;i,l=^ 




In the second story front room of this house, (located at South- 
West Corner of Seventh and Market Streets,) Jefferson drafted the 
Declaration of Independence. , 



821 




BUILDING IN WHICH FIRST AMERICAN FLAG 

WAS MADE. 

This Building is located at 239 Arch Street. The cut is an exact 
fac-simile of the building as it appeared at that time. 



322 




323 




Independence Hall is located on Chestnut Street, between Fifth 
and Sixth Streets, commenced in 1729 and finished in 1734. It 
was built by Edmund Wooley, Robert Smith being the architect. 
The Continental Congress first met iu this building May 10th, 1775. 



324 






fi^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ 




!iiii!i!iiiyi| 

IXDEPENDEXCE HALL IN 187G. 



325 




GIRARD COLLEGE. 




STEPHEN GIRARD. 



Girard College is located on Ridge Avenue above Nineteenth 
Street. The grounds cover 41 acres. The main building is 111 
feet wide by 269 feet long. The columns are 55 feet in height ; 
10 feet in diameter, surrounded by capitols 8 feet 6 inches high. 
The total height of the building is 95 feet. The main door entrance 
is 32 feet high by 16 feet wide. 



326 




BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. 




FRANKLIN'S GRAVE. 



The remains of Benjamiu Franklin and his wife Deborah are laid 
in Old Christ Church Burial Ground, located at the South-East 
Corner of Fifth and Arch Streets. 



327 




328 




FARMERS' MARKET HOUSE. 

INTERIOR TIEW. 



Located at North-East Corner of Twelfth and Market Streets. 




MARKET STREET FERRY. 



Located at foot of Market Street, on the Delaware opposite Cam- 
den, N. J. Five minutes time allotted for crossing the river. 



329 




This Institution stands on the square bounded by Spruce and 
Pine Streets, and by Eighth and Ninth Streets. 



330 




PENNSYLYANIA COLLEGE. 
Located oa Ninth Street, below Locust Street. 




NEW ACADEMY OF NATURAL SCIENCES. 
Located at Nineteenth and Race Streets. 




MEDICAL. 



iir.'^inti'-i 



iniffi 



i-o^i«LiiTjiit:^ii 



HOSPITAL. 
BUILDINGS OF THE UNIVERSITY OP PENNSYLVANIA. 



332 




333 




III ill'illlil^' 

Pllfel 



This Institution for the cure of diseases of the Eyes and Limbs, 
s located on south side of Logan Square, on Race Street between 
8th and 19th Streets. 

It was founded by James Wills, who bequeathed for the purpose 
)108,396. Commenced in 1832 and finished in 1834. Since which 
ime nearly 52,000 patients have been treated. 



334 







Mui^ ^L 



This elegant building designed as a Lying-iu Hospital for indigent 
married "svomen, was founded by bequest of Dr. Jonas Preston. It 
is located on Hamilton Street, between Twentieth and Twenty-first 
Streets. It is one of Philadelphia's noblest charities. 



335 




This Institution is located at Twentieth and Race Streets. It was 
founded in 1833. It has now accommodation for 225 pupils. During 
last year, over 55,000 brushes, brooms and whisks, were made by 
the blind. 



336 



.;;ii,|l ill, ii„ Hlffl 




This Institution is located at Broad and Pine Streets. It was 
founded in the year 1820. The original cost was $80,000. 



337 




The Cemeter}- is situated at Ridge Avenue and Lehigh Avenue. 
This engraving represents the main entrance on Ridge Avenue. 



338 




This Cemetery is situated at Twenty-fifth and Norris Streets. 



339 




ATHEN^UM. 

Located at Sixth and Adelphi Streets. The Historical Society of 
Pennsylvania have an interesting museum in this building. 




NEW LIBRARY BUILDING. 
South Broad Street. 



340 



.!■■ .illijlii:. „:;•:■■ /.;ii:iliiiiiiiii!ii:!ibiii:i!:«iiii!i;il;!iiik:!as!ii.viiM 







Located at Fifth and Library Streets. 



341 




ACADEMY OF MUSIC AND HORTICULTURAL HALL. 

Located at Broad and Locust Streets, nearly adjoining each other. 
The Academy is one- of the most magnificent of modern opera 
houses. It has a front of 140 feet on Broad Street, and a depth of 
233 feet on Locust Street. 




ACADEMY OF FI^TE ARTS. 



Located on Broad Street, corner Cherry Street. 



342 




Musical Fund Hall located on Locust Street, aboVe Eighth, 
founded in 1820, for the relief of supei-anuated musicians, the culti- 
vation of skill and the diffusion of taste in music. The Hall seats 
2, GOO persons. 



343 







Moyameiising Prison is located on Passyunk Avenue, below Reed 
Street. It is built of Quincy granite, in the Tudor style of English 
gothic architecture. It was first occupied in October, 1835. It 
contains nearly five hundred cells. 



344 




EASTERN PENITENTIARY. 

Located on Fairmount Avenue, west of Twenty-first Street. 
Original cost, $600,000. 




U. S. NAVAL ASYLUM. 



Located on Gray's Ferry Road, below Bainbridge Street. Sur- 
rounded by a beautiful park containing 25 acres. 



345 







Fronting on Walnut, Dock and Third Streets. To the extreme 
right may be observed the old Girard Bank. 



346 




NEW COMMERCIAL EXCHANGE. 



Located on Second Street, below Chestnut Street, on the site of 
the "old slate roof house " (erected in 1700, and demolished in 
18G8). This building is one of the finest which adorns Philadelphia. 
It is built of fine brown stone and brick. Our heaviest merchants 
in flour, grain and high wines, meet daily here, and make exchanges 
to the amount of millions. The Government Signal Service is 
located in the tower of the building. The Philadelphia Produce 
Exchange, dealers in butter, eggs, cheese, etc., meet daily in one of 
the principal chambers of this building, and barter and make 
exchanges on a very extensive scale ; this Exchange is still in its 
infancy, but it is in a very successful condition at present, and bids 
fair to rival the older one. 



347 




Tho Custom-House stands on the south side of Chestnut street, 
between Fourth and Fifth. It has two fronts, one on Chestnut, the 
other on Library Street, each ornamented with eight fluted Doric 
columns, 27 feet high and 4 feet 6 inches in diameter, supporting 
a heavy entablature. It is in imitation of the Parthenon at Athens, 
and is one of the purest specimens of Doric architecture in the 
country. The building was completed in 1824, having cost $500,000, 
and was formerly the United States Bank. It is now used by the 
United States Sub-Treasury and Custom-House officers. 



348 




U. S. MINT. 
Located on Chestnut Street, below Broad. 




CHESTNUT STREET BRIDGE. 

Spans the Schuylkill River at Chestnut Street. Commenced 
September 19th, 1861, finished July 4th, 18G6. 



349 




The Union League Club was formed in 1862, for promoting 
friendly intercourse among loyal people. The building is located 
on Broad Street, near Walnut. The cost, including furniture, was 
$200,000. 



350 




Located at Sixth and Cresson Streets. The first Order instituted 
in this city, about the year 1823. Cost of hall and furniture $90,000. 
The office of the Grand Secretary is in the hall. There is one large 
Encampment room. The Grand Lodge and Grand Encampment, 
Trustees of the H.iU Association, Trustees of Odd Fellows' Ceme- 
tery Company, one Degree Lodge, forty-seven Subordinate Lodges, 
and twelve Encampments, hold their meetings in it. 



351 




NEW MASONIC TEMPLE. 



The New Masonic Temple is located at Broad and Filbert Streets. 
It is the grandest building of its kind in the world. It is a granite 
structure, 250 feet long and 150 feet wide; three lofty stories in 
height. The tbwer is 230 feet high. The building contains nine 
lodge rooms, together with the officers' and library rooms. The 
Temple was dedicated in 1873, in the presence of 50,000 members 
of the fraternity. The cost of the structure was $1,540,000. 



352 








NEW PUBLIC BUILDINGS. 



These buildings are now in course of erection at Broad and 
Market Streets. They will be six years in course of completion. 
They will be 470 feet from east to west, and 486^ feet from north to 
south, covering an area, exclusive of the court-yard, of nearly four 
and a half acres. It will be larger than any single building on this 
continent. The cost of the whole structure will be about $12,000,000. 



353 




FOUNTAIN IN FRANKLIN SQUARj:. 

This place of resort is located at Sixth and Race Streets. It is 
named after the printer, patriot and philosopher — Benjamin Franklin. 




LOGAN SQUARE. 



Located at Eighteenth and Race Streets. During the civil war, 
there was held here one of the largest Sanitary Fairs that the world 
ever beheld. 



354 




SHIP IX FULL SAIL. 




RIVER STEAMBOAT. 



These boats may be seen gliding up and down the Delaware River 
at all hours of the day, loaded -with passengers residing in towns 
on the Delaware banks, or with Philadelphians seeking health from 
the cool breeze of the river. 



355 




35G 




mtmmtf ^! 




?'"'W 



FAIRMOUNT PARK, at Philadelphia, is the most extensive, and 
in natural advantages, the most attractive, ataong the pleasure- 
grounds of Europe and America. 

It borders and includes the Schuylkill River for a distance of over 
seven miles, and the Wissahickon, a tributary stream, for a distance 
of over six miles. It begins at Fairmount, a point on the Schuylkill 
distant about one and a half mile from Broad and Market Streets, 
and terminates at Chestnut Hill, on the Wissahickon, a distance of 
nearly fourteen miles. 

Of the two principal sections of this Park, the one bordering the 
Schuylkill contains 2240 acres. The one bordering the Wissahickon 
contains 450 acres. The entire Park comprises nearly 3000 acres. 
It will require for access to its several portions more than fifty miles 
of carriage road, and one hundred miles of road-way, paths, and 
connections. 

The Park contains 115 springs of pure cold water, and twenty 
small streams, tributaries of the Schuylkill and Wissahickon. 

The ground selected for the site of the Centemiial Exhibition in 
Fairmount Park is west of the Schuylkill River, and north of Girard 
and Elm Avenues, on a plateau ninety feet above the river, hereto- 
fore known as Lansdowne. The boundaries of the Exhibition are: 
South, Elm Avenue, from Forty-first to Fifty-second streets ; West, 
the Park drive to George's Hill, with the Concourse; North, Belmont 
drive from George's Hill to the foot of Belmont; and East, Lans- 
downe drive from Belmont to Forty-first street. 

Some of the principal points of interest in the Park are: The Art 
Gallery; The Water Works; Lincoln's Monument; The Fountain; 
The Mineral Spring; Lemon Hill; Grant's Old Log Cabin; (his head- 
quarters at the time, of Lee's surrender) Zoological Garden; The 
Ravines ; Monster Pines ; Sedgely Park ; Belmont ; Strawberry Man- 



357 



Bion; Lansdowiie; Egglesfield ; George's Hill; Tom Moore's Cottage 
and Wissahickon Creek and Scenery. 

The Park, in addition to its natural beauties and artificial adorn- 
ments, has a halo of historical interest ; its grounds were traversed 
by many of the historic personages of the Revolutionary period. 
On the banks of its principal stream Tom Moore probably wrote the 

lines 

I kncTT by the smoke that so gracefully curled 

Across the green elmS) that a cottage was near, 
And T said if there's peace to be found in this world, 

A heart that is humble might hope for it here. 




358 








360 




361 




362 




FOUNTAIN NEAR MINERAL SPRING, LEMON HILIh 



363 




364 




365 




LAUREL HILL CEMETERY. 
Landing on the Schnylkill. 




STRAWBERRY MANSION. 
Popular summer resort in East Park. 



366 




3G7 




THE HERMIT'S "OOIi. 



3G8 




MONSTER PINES IN WEST PARK. 



369 




BAVINE IK WESTEJIN PABK, SWEETBniAR VALB. 



370 




371 





372 




ri,.^>A«^J^tn\ LAhM^i i" 



373 




HEilLOCK GLEN ON TUE WISSAHICKON. 



374 



g-X:|IMll*tt i 



THE INTERKATIONAI. EXHIBITION 

OPENS MAY (Oth, 1876. CLOSES NOV. lOth, 1876. 



The Exhibition Buildings proper are five in number, and occupy about 60 
acres at the foot of George'8 Hill, in the West Park. Two hundred and thirty- 
acres have been enclosed for the purposes of the Exhibition. Thirteen orna- 
mental editices will be erected by the foreign commissions, to bq used as offices, 
parlors, etc. Thirteen of our States will put up similar structures. About 150 
buildings will be erected on the ground, and each one of a different style of 
architecture, and of a very attractive and imposing appearance. 

This Exhibition is the largest ever held, exceeding in area of ground the 
Vienna Eihibition of 1874. by over four acres. 

Area of enclosed grounds, 2-56 acres. 

Lineal number of feet of the enclosure, 16,000. 

Number of entrances, 13. 

Dimensions of Main Building, 1,880 feet by 464 feet — 21.47 acres. 

Memorial Hall or Art Gallery, 210 feet by 365 feet— 1% acres. 

Machinery Hall, 360 feet by 1402 feet— 14 acres. 

Horticultural Hall, 160 feet by 350 feet. 

Agricultural Hall, 820 feet by 540 feet. 

United States Government Building. 

Office for the United States Commission, 80 feet by 334 feet — % of an acre. 

Judges' Hall, Length 152 feet by 115 feet wide. 

The Women's Pavilion covers an area of 30,000 square feet, and is formed by 
two naves intersecting each other, each 64 feet wide by 192 feet long, on 
end of same a porch 8 by 32 feet. 

Avenues and walks, 7 miles. 

Length of proposed horse railway. 4 miles. 

Average distance between the buildings, 550 feet. 

OFFICERS OF THE U. S. CENTENNIAL COMMISSIOf(. 

PRESIDENT. 
HON. JOSEPH R. HAWLEY, of Connecticut. 

VICE-PRESIDENTS. 

ALFRED T GOSHORN. of Ohio. JOHN D. CREIGH, of California 

ORESTES CLEVELAND, of N. J. ROBERT LOWRY, of Iowa. 

ROBERT MALLORY, of Ky. 

SECRETARY. 
JOHN L. CAMPBELL, of Indiana. 

DIRECTOR-GENERAL OP THE EXHIDITION. 
ALFRED T. GOSHORN. of Ohio. 

ASSISTANT SECRETARY. 

COL. MYER ASCH, of Philadelphia. 

SOLICITOR-GENERAL. 

JOHN L. SHOEMAKER, Esq., of Pliiladelphia. 



375 




37 G 




377 




378 




M CD 

1-3 CO 

w 

S 

w 

o . 
s § 



379 




380 




381 




382 




383 



THE UNITED STATE8.-THE ORIGINAL THIRTEEN. 

Connecticut, settled at Windsor, in 1633 

Delaware, " Wilmington, " 1638 

Georgia, " Savannah, "1733 

Maryland, " St. Mary, " 1634 

Massachusetts, « Plymouth, " 1620 

New Hampshire, " Dover, " 1623 

New Jersey " Bergen, " 1624 

New York, " Manhattan, "1614 

North Carolina, " Albemarle, " 1650 

Pennsylvania, " Philadelphia " 1681 

Rhode Island, " Providence, "1636 

South Carolina, " Port Royal, "1670 

Virginia, " Jamestown, " 1607 



PRESIDENTS AND VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE 
UNITED STATES.— 1789-1876. 



YEAR. NAME. 


Where from 


TERM OF OFFICE. 


1789 Geo. Washington, 


Virginia, 


8 years. 


1797 John Adams, 


"Mass. 


4 " 


1801 Thomas Jefferson, 


Virginia, 


8 " 


1809 James Madison, 


Virginia, 


8 " 


1817 James Monroe, 


Virginia, 


8 " 


1824 John Q. Adams, 


Mass. 


4 " 


1829 Andrew Jackson, 


Tennessee, 


8 " 


1837 Martin Van Buren 


, New York, 


4 " 


1841 W. H. Harrison,* 


Ohio, 


1 month. 


1841 John Tyler, 


Virginia, 


3 years, 11 months. 


1845 Jas. K. Polk, 


Tennessee, 


4 " 


1849 Zachary Taylor,f 


Louisiana, 


1 year, 4 months, 5 days. 


1850 Millard Fillmore, 


New York, 


2 years, 7 months, 26 days. 


1853 Franklin Pierce, 


New Hamp. 


4 " 


1856 James Buchanan, 


Penna. 


4 " 


1861 Abm. LincolnJ 


Illinois, 


4 years, 1 month, 10 days. 


1865 Andrew Johnson, 


Tennessee, 


3 " 10 months, 20 " 


1869 Ulysses S. Grant, 


Illinois, 


4 " 


1873 Ulysses S. Grant, 


Illinois, 




■*Died in office, April 4, 


1841, when Vice President Tyler succeeded 


him. 






fDied in office, July 


9, 1850, when Vice President Fillmore 


succeeded him. 






^Assassinated April 14, 1865, when Vice President Johnson 


succeeded him. 







384 



VICE PRESIDENTS. 

YEAR. NAME. Where from 

1789 John Adams, Massachusetts 

1797 Thomas Jefferson, Virginia 

1801 Aaron Burr, New York 

1804 George Clifton, New York 

1813 Elbridge Gerry, Massachusetts 

1817 Daniel D. Tompkins,, New York 

1824 John C. Calhoun, South Carolina 

1833 Martin Van Buren, New York 

1837 Richard M. Johnson, Kentucky 

1841 John Tyler, Virginia 

1842 Samuel L. Southard,* New Jersey 

1845 George M. Dallas, Pennsylvania 

1849 Millard Fillmore, : New York 

1851 William R. King,* , Alabama 

1853 David R. Achison,* Missouri 

1855 Jesse D. Bright,* Indiana 

1857 John C. Breckenridge, Kentucky 

1861 Hannibal Hamlin, Maine 

1865 Andrew Johnson, Tennessee 

1865 Lafayette Foster,* Connecticut 

1866 Benjamin F. Wade,* Ohio 

1869 Schuyler Colfax, Indiana 

1873 Henry Wilson, Massachusetts 

1875 Thomas W. Ferry, Michigan 

*Ex-officio as President ^ro tern, of the Senate. 



GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES. 

President, Ulysses S. Grant, of Illinois. 

Acting Vice President, T. W. Ferry, of Michigan. 



THE cabinet. 

Secretary of State, Hamilton Fish, of New York. 
Secretary op Treasury, B. H. Bristow, of Kentucky. 
Secretary of War, Alfonso Taft, of Ohio. 
Secretary op Navy, Geo. M. Robeson, of New Jersey. 
Secretary of Interior, Z. Chandler, of Michigan. 
Postmaster General, Marshall Jewell, of Connecticut. 
Attorney General, Edwards Pierrepont, of New York. 



385 



UNITED STATES SUPREME COURT, 

Chief Justice, Morrison R. Waite, of Ohio, age, 49, appointed 1874 



Asso. 


Justice 


Nathan Clifford, 


11 


Maine, " 


71, 




1858 






Noah H. Swayne, 


" 


Ohio, " 


70, 




1862 






Saml. F. Miller, 


(( 


Iowa, ■" 


59, 




1862 






David Davis, 


ti 


111. " 


€0, 




1862 






Stephen J. Field, 


it 


Cal. " 


58, 




1863 






William Strong, 


u 


Penn. " 


66, 




1870 






Joseph P. Bradley, 


It 


N. J., " 


62, 




1870 






Ward Hunt, 


u 


N. Y., " 


64, 




1872 



Reporter, Wm. T. Otto, of Indiana, appointed 1875. 



UNITED states ARMY. 

RANK. NAME, Head-quartcrs. 

General William T. Sherman, „ St. Louis, Mo. 

Lieut. General Philip H. Sheridan, Chicago, 111. 

Major General W. S. Hancock, ,...,...New York. 

" " J. M, Schofield, ,..,. San Francisco. 

" " Irving McDowell, Philadelphia. 

Brig'k. General John Pope, Fort Leavenworth 

Oliver 0. Howard, Portland, Or. 

Alfred H. Terry, Louisville, Ky. 

E, 0. C. Ord, ., San Francisco, 

Christ. C. Auger, Omaha, Neb. 

George Crook, Prescott, Arizona 



united states navy. 

BANK. NAME, Where serving. 

Admiral David D. Porter Washington. 

Vice Admiral Stephen C. Rowan, " 

Rear Admiral Chas. H, Davis, Naval Academy. 

" " John Rodgers, Mare Island, Cal. 

" •' Augustus L. Case, Europe. 

" " Alexander M. Pennock, Asia. 

" " John L. Worden, On leave. 

" " John J. Almy, North Pacific. 

" " James H. Strong, On leave. 

" " William Reynolds, Washington. 

" " Wm. E. LeRoy, South Atlantic. 

" " J. R. M. Mullany, North Atlantic. 

" " C. R. P. Rodgers, Washington. 



386 




COAT OF ARMS OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA. 



INDEX. 



387 



INDEX TO COOKERY. 



:E>-A.ie,T iFiE-ST. 



PAGE 

Bread, Art of Making 1 

" Apple _ 4 

" Brown, Boston 5 

" Currant 4 

" French „.. 5 

" Graham _ _ 3 

" Indian _.. 3 

" Potatoe „ 4 

" Eye _ 2 

•' Unleavened 3 

" AVheat, American. 2 

Biscuit, American 6 

" Almond _ 9 

" Common Sense 5 

" English _...._ 6 

" French - 6 

" . Fruit, Wheat Meal 7 

" German _ 7 

" Ginger „ _ 8 

" Graham Soda 9 

" Orange 8 

" Soda 7 

« Sour Milk 7 

Buns, Caraway - - 11 

" Centennial 12 

« Citron 12 

" Tea 11 

Buckwheat Cakes > 14 

Griddle Cakes 15 

" Short Cakes 15 

Beef, Art of Choosing „ 1-0 

" a la Daub 121 

" a la Mode 123 

" BroUed 123 

« " rare 123 



PAGK 

Beef, Boiled _ 124 

" Corned 125 

" Cold, Hashed _ 126 

" Fricassee 122 

" Heart, to Dress 128 

" Kidneys, Stewed 127 

" " Toast „. 127 

" Liver, Fried. „ 123 

" " Broiled „ 123 

" Marrow Bones 128 

" Potted 125 

" Patties, from under done 

[Beef 127 

" Palates 129 

" Boast, American 121 

" " Sirloin, English 121 

" Stewed with Carrots 122 

" " " Raisins 122, 

" Steak and Oysters, Stewed... 122 

" " with Onions 124 

" Spiced „ 126 

" Sausages 126 

" Tongue, London 124 

" " American _ 125 

" " French Eoast_ 125 

" Tripe, to Fry 127 

" " Fricasseed 128 

Beer, Art of Managing 177 

" Essential Oils 187 

•* Ginger 186 

" Lemon Pop 186 

« Molasses 187 

" Mead, Excellent 187 

'• Pop « 185 

" Spruce _ 186 



388 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Beer, Sarsaparilla 186 

" Silver Top 187 

Brandy, Blackberry 184 

" Cherry _ 184 

" Easpberry ISA 

Cake, Corn Dodgers 16 

" Flannel 15 

" Green Corn ™. 16 

" Indian Corn „ IS 

" Johnny „. 15 

" Pan _. 17 

" Pan, Common _.. 17 

" " London 17 

'• " French 18 

" Rice 17 

Cakes, Art of Making^. „ 22 

" Almond 24 

" " Garlands 25 

" Apricot _ 27 

" a la Polonaise 27 

" Apple 32 

" Cinnanion ^ ._. 24 

" Cocoanut 24 

" Chocolate 29 

" Drop ~ 29 

" Frosting for „ 33 

« Honey „ — 29 

" Josephine. 28 

'' Jumbles _ 31 

" Lemon „ 27 

" Little White 29 

« " Short „ 30 

*' liady Kisses 30 

" Pound Plum 23 

" " Fruit 23 

" Plain Pound _. 23 

" Poor Man's _ -.... 31 

" Queen 25 

" Eich Seed _.. 28 

" Rice Cream «...~... 28 

" Raisin 30 

" Strawberry 25 

" Sponge 25 

" Sugar Drop 32 

" Turkish - 30 

" Velvet 24 

" Venetian, Small 26 



PAGE 

Cakes, Vienna m...._ 27 

" Washington 26 

« Webster 26 

" White Mountain 30 

Cheesecake, Apple_ 43 

" Almond 44 

" Lemon « 44 

" Plain 43 

Custard, Almond 46 

« Baked 45 

" Cream 46 

" Lemon 45 

» Mottled 45 

" Rich 45 

Carving, Art of 158 

" Aitch Bone 160 

" Breast of Veal 161 

" Chuck Ribs 160 

" Calfs Head 161 

" Duck 165 

" Fillet of Veal 161 

" Fore Quarter of Lamb 162 

" Fowl 164 

" Fish 166 

" Grouse 165 

" Goose] 165 

Ham 1G3 

" Haunch of Venison 1G3 

" Hare 165 

" Loin of Veal 160 

" Leg of Mutton 161 

" Leg of Lamb 162 

" Loin of Mutton 162 

" " Lamb 162 

Pork 163 

" Leg of " 163 

« Pig 163 

" Partridge 165 

" Pigeon 165 

" Rabbit 165 

" Sirloin of Beef 159 

" Shoulder of Mutton 161 

" Saddle " 162 

" Shoulder of Lamb 162 

" Tongue ICO 

" Turkey 164 

" Woodcock 165 



INDEX. 



389 



PAGE 

Coffee, as a Stimulant 173 

" as made in India 175 

" French Mode. 174 

" Milk 17-1 

" Roasting „..„ 173 

" to Make 174 

Chocolate, Philadelphia Mode 176 

to Make 176 

Cocoa, Prepared 176 

" Shells 176 

Cider, Champagne 185 

" Method of Making 184 

" to Keep Sweet „ „.... 185 

" " for Years 185 

Cleaning and Scouring 200 

" " Black Cloth 200 

" " Ink Spots 

[on Clothes 200 
" " Iron Moulds 

[on Linen 200 
" " Mildew from 

[Linen 200 
" " Spots on Silk 200 

Doug^bnuts, Country 33 

" Superior 33 

Dumplings, Apple 50 

" Baked Apple„ 61 

" Oxford 50 

" Peach 51 

" Raspberry 51 

Eggs, Art of Choosing 167 

" a la Coque 107 

" and Sausages 168 

" " Bacon 168 

" " Beet Root ^ 108 

" a la Sicilienne 170 

" Boiled, Plain 107 

" Baked 109 

" Croquettes 1G9 

" Omelette, aux Confitures 170 

" " of Ham 170 

" " of Tongue or 

[Sausage 170 

" '• and Rum 171 

" " American 171 

" " and Cheese 171 

" Poached „ 169 



Eggs, Pickled 171 

'' Preserved 172 

" Sandwiches 163 

" Scrambled 170 

" with Onions 169 

Fritters, Apple 19 

" Oyster 18 

« Plain 19 

" Potato 19 

Fish 95 

" Black, Fried 106 

" Choosing 95 

" Cod, Boiled 103 

" " Sounds, Dressed 104 

" Salt, Boiled 104 

" " Curry to make 104 

" " Cakes, to make 105 

" Cat, Fried 106 

" Carp, Boiled 109" 

" " Stewed 109 

" Eels, a la Cream 106 

" " Baked 105 

•« " Fried 105 

" Flounders, Stewed 106 

". " Fried 105 

" Halibut, Boiled. 96 

" " Fried 97 

" " Broiled 97 

" " Smoked 97 

" Haddock, Boiled 97 

" '• Fried 98 

" " Baked 98 

" " Broiled 98 

" Herring, Smoked 101 

" " Fried 101 

" " Broiled 102 

" Mackerel, " 102 

" " Fried 102 

" " a la Maitre de 

[Hotel 102 

" Mullet, Red 108 

" Maids, Boiled 108 

" Perch, Boiled 98 

" " Fried 99 

" " White, a la daub 99 

" Pike, Baked 107 

" Rock, to Boil ..^ 105 



390 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Fisli Salmon, Roasted 'J5 

" " Broiled 96 

" " Potted 90 

" '• Fried 9(> 

" " Boiled 90 

" ''had, Boiled 100 

" " Roast ICO 

' " BroU 101 

' ■' Baked 101 

" Sturgeon, to Dress 103 

" " Roasted 103 

" " Boiled 103 

- '• " Broiled 103 

" Scabass and Tomatoes 107 

" Soles, Fried 107 

" " Frieassee 107 

" Smelts, Fried 108 

" Skate, to Prepare 108 

" " Crimp 108 

" Trout, Boiled 99 

" " Fried 99 

" " Broiled 100 

" Thorback 108 

" Shells , 110 

" Crabs, to Choose ^ 110 

" " alaRusse 112 

" " Devilled 113 

" " Cold, Dressed 113 

" " Clam Soup 113 

" " Soft Shell 113 

" " " Stewed 114 

" " Boiled, Boston 114 

Glng^er Bread, Hard 31 

" " Soft 31 

" " Snaps 32 

Game, Art of Choosing 14S 

Grouse, to Roast 156 

Hare. ' 157 

Pigeons, Broiled 154 

" Roasted 154 

" Stewed with 

[Macearoni 154 

Pheasants, to Roast 155 

Partridges, " 155 

Plovers, to Dress 156 

Reed Birds, to Dress 156 

Rabbits, Stewed 156 



PAGE 

Game, Rabbits, Ragout of 156 

" " to Roast 157 

" Snipes, Roasted 155 

" Teal, to Truss 155 

" " to Roast 155 

" Venison, to Roast 149 

" " Hashed 149 

" " Minced 149 

" « Stewed 150 

" Wild Ducks, to Dress 154 

" " " to Stew 154 

" Woodcocks, roasted 155 

Ice Cream, Cocoanut 188 

" Chocolate 139 

Lemon 183 

Pineapple 189 

Strawberry 188 

" Vanilla 188 

Jelly, Apple 60 

Blackberry 57 

Cranberry 57 

Currant 57 

aaret 58 

Calf's Feet 68 

Confectioner's 59 

Grape 57 

Green Gage 58 

Iceland Moss 59 

Orange 58 

Plum 58 

Quince 59 

Raspberry 57 

Strawberry 57 

Jam, Blackberry 60 

" Currant 01 

" Codlin .'. 61 

" Cherry 61 

" Orange 61 

" Raspberry 60 

" Strawberry 60 

liObstet', to Choose 110 

" to Dress 110 

" Patties 110 

" Sauce Ill 

" Cutlets Ill 

Buttered Ill 

" Stewed 112 



INDEX. 



391 



PARE 

Lobster, Scalloped 112 

" Broiled 112 

Lamb, Art of Choosing 138 

" Cutlets and Green Peas, 

[a la Boyal 138 

Chops 139 

Leg, Roasted 138 

Lamb's Fry 139 

Quarter, Boned 140 

Shoulder, Boasted 139 

Stewed 139 

Muffins, Corn Meal 13 

" "MyOwu" 14 

" Plain , 13 

" Toast 14 

" Yankee 14 

Mush, and Milk » 16 

" Fried 17 

Mutton, Art of Choosing 135 

" Broiled, Tomato Sauce.... 136 

" Breast, in Kagout 137 

« " Boiled 137 

" Chops, Broiled 136 

" Leg, Boiled 137 

" Minced with Mashed 

[Potatoes 137 

" Saddle, Roasted 136 

" Shoulder, Roasted 136 

" Stewed 137 

Oysters, Art of choosing 110 

" Fried, Washington 

[Stylo 114 

" Loaves, to Make.„ 115 

" to Fry 115 

" to Stew 115 

" Stewed, New York 115 

" and Chestnuts 116 

" and Maccaroni 116 

" Scalloped 116 

" Fritters 116 

" Pancakes 116 

" Roast, Philadelphia.... 117 

" Sauce 117 

" Milk Stew 117 

«' Patties 117 

" Vol-au-vent 117 

" Panned 118 



PAOK 

Oysters, to Feed 118 

Pies, Art and Directions 35 

" Apple and Quince 41 

" Blackberry 37 

" Cherry 37 

" Currant and Gooseberry.... 38 

" Codlin 41 

" Cherry 41 

" Dried Apple 40 

" Green Currant 36 

" Gooseberry 86 

" Grape.. 37 

" Green Apple 39 

" Glazing Pastry 60 

" Lemon 37 

" Mince 42 

" " Lent 42 

" " Lemon 42 

" Orange or Lemon 41 

" Prune 38 

" Peach 39 

" « Pot 39 

" " Dried 39 

" Pumpkin ~ 40 

" Plum 40 

" Rhubarb 36 

" Raisin 43 

" Scotch Apple 40 

" Tomatoe 37 

« Whortleberry 38 

" Yankee Mince 43 

PuflFs, Cream 44 

" French 44 

Pies, Meat and Vegetable 48 

" Oyster 49 

" Pigeon or Game 49 

" Rabbit or Hare - 49 

" Turkey Patties 60 

Pudding, American Christmas 64 

Bread 54 

Baked Apple 66 

Cup 63 

Cocoanut ~ 65 

Fruit 52 

Plum 62 

Plain Rice 64 

" Suet 55 



392 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Pudding, Eagon's Cream 63 

" Swiss 66 

" Tapioca 65 

" Victoria Battter 63 

" "Winter 66 

" Yorksliire 53 

Preserves, Clarify Sugar 63 

" Cherries 66 

" Crab Apple 67 

" Green Gage 60 

" Grapes in Brandy 68 

" Peacli 64 

" Plum 65 

" Pear 65 

" Quince 65 

" " whole or half.... 67 

" Easpberry 64 

" Ehubarb and Orange.... 67 

" Strawberry 66 

" To Keep 63 

" Tomatoes 64 

Pickles, Asparagus 70 

" Barberries 70 

" French Bean 71 

" Green, to Make 71 

" Ouion 70 

" Peach 69 

" Plums, like OUves 69 

" Red Cabbage 70 

" EadishPods 71 

" Tomatoe 70 

Pork, Art of Choosing 140 

" Chops 142 

" Ham, to Choose 140 

" " to Toast 142 

" " to Stuff. 142 

" " to Boil 142 

" » Smoked, to Keep 146 

" Hog's Head Cheese 144 

" Leg, Eoast, with Stuffing 140 

" Olives 142 

" Pudding, Holland 143 

" " American 145 

" Pickled 146 

" Spare Rib, to Eoast 141 

" Sausage, Genuine Country... 143 
" " Bologna 145 



PAGE 

Pork, Soused Feet 145 

" " in Eagout 146 

" Sausage, Fried 146 

" Tongues, to Prepare 147 

Pig, Baked 141 

" Roasted 141 

" Cheek, to Boil 144 

" I'eet and Ears _ 144 

" Head, to Eoast 143 

" '• to Boil 143 

" Kidneys 144 

Poultry, Art of Choosing 148 

" Cliickens, to Eoast 151 

" " Boiled with 

[Tongue 152 

" " toBroU 153 

" Capons, to Roast 153 

" Duck, to Roast 153 

" " to Stew 153 

" Fowls, Devilled 151 

" " to Roast 151 

" " to Fry 152 

" " to Stew 152 

" " Croquettes of 152 

'< Goose, to Roast 153 

" Turkey, Roast, with 

[Chestnuts 150 
" " " American 150 

" " Fricasseed 150 

" " to Bone 151 

« " Devilled 161 

Rolls, Breakfast 9 

•' Boston Buttermilk 10 

'• Cranberry 9 

" Economical 10 

" English Cheshire 10 

" French 10 

" Graham 10 

" German Sausage 11 

Rusks, Italian 13 

" New York 12 

Sauce, Auvin 72 

" Apple 73 

" Cranberry 73 

" Caper 74 

" Lobster 73 

" Maitre de Hotel 74 



INDEX. 



393 



PAGE 

Sauce, Mint, for Roast Lamb 74 

" Oyster 73 

" Plum Pudding 72 

" Red Wine 72 

" Wine 72 

Salad, American Chicken 75 

" de Boeuf 76 

" French Chicken 75 

" Lobster 7G 

Soup, a la Cardinal 77 

" Clam 78 

" Green Turtle 81 

" Maccaroni 79 

" Mock Turtle 81 

" Noodle 79 

" Oyster 73 

" Ox Tail 79 

" Pea 79 

" Rice or Barley 80 

" Stock for 77 

« Vegetable 78 

« White Maigre 78 

Shrimps, to Serve 118 

" to Pot 118 

" Sauce 119 

Starch, Art of Making 197 

" Gum Arabic 198 

" Shirts, Glossy 198 

Toast, Buttered 20 

" Egg 21 

" French Milk 20 

" Ham 21 

'< Sandwich 20 

Tarts, Apple 47 

" Black Currant 47 

" Cranberry 47 

" French Raspberry 46 

" Plum 48 

" Strawberry 47 

Tea, Art of Making 175 

" Ordinary Mode 175 

Teg^ctables, Art of Preparing.. 82 
" Artichokes, to 

[Dress 86 
" Asparagus, to 

[Dress 91 
Beans, to Dress 83 



PAGE 

"Vegetables, Beans, French, to 

[Dress 88 
" " SheUed, to 

[Dress 88 
" " Fricasseed. 88 

" " Kidney, Boiled 89 

" " Lima 89 

" Bct'ts, to Prepare 91 

Pickled 91 

" Carrots, a la Maitre de 

[Hotel 85 
" Carrots,American Style 85 
" Cauliflowers, to Dress... 86 
" Cauliflowers, in White 

[Sauce 86 

" Corn, Green, Boiled 9J 

" Corn, Green, Roasted... 90 
" Cabbage, Red, to Stew.. 91 
" Cabbage, with Onions.. 92 
" Cabbage Sprouts.toBoil 92 

" Celery, to Stew 93 

•' Cucumbers, to Stew 93 

" Egg Plant, to Prepare™ 89 

" Greens, to Boil 92 

" Lettuce or Salad.to Pre- 

[pare 92 

" Mushrooms, to Stew 92 

" Onions, to Boil in Milk 92 

" Onions, to Stew 92 

" Oyster Plant.to Prepare 93 

" Potatoes, to Broil 82 

" " to Roast ZS 

" " to Fry 83 

" Sarato. Chips 83 

" " to Mash 83 

" " Puree of. 83 

Balls 83 

'■ " with Bacon... 84 

" Potatoes, Mashed with 

[Onions 84 
" Potatoes, Oyster Balls.. 84 
" SweetStewed 84 
" " Sweet Baked 85 

" " White Baked 85 

" Parsnips, Fricassee of.. 86 

" Parsnips, Mashed 86 

" " Fried 86 



J04 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Vegetables, Peas, to Dress 87 

" " Green, to Stew.... 87 

" Pea Pods, to Stew 88 

" Rutabagas, to Prepare.. 87 

" Spinach, witbGravy 85 

" Spinach, Beignets of... 85 
" Succotash, to Prepare... 90 

" Squash, to Dress 93 

« " to Stew 93 

" Turnips, White, to Pre- 

[pare 87 
" Tomatoes, Baked, 

[American 89 

" Tomatoes, Stewed 90 

" " Scalloped _ 90 

Veal, Art of Choosing 129 

" Breast, to Stew ~ 130 

" " Ragout of 13'i 

" Brains, to Fry 134 

" Cutlet, a la Maitre de Hotel.. 130 

" Calf's Feet to Fry 1S3 

«• " to Stew 133 

« " to Clean 135 

** Calf's Head, Baked 133 

" " Boiled 133 

" to Clean 135 

Calf's Heart, Roasted 134 

" Pluck, Dressed 134 

Fillet, Baked 131 

Fricando of. 132 

Hashed 134 

Liver, to Stuff and Roast 132 

» « Broiled. 132 

" Neck, to Stew 130 

« Olives 131 

" Potted 135 

" Roast 329 

" Scollops, Scotch 131 

" Sweet Breads, to Fry 134 

Vinegar, Cider 190 

" Raspberry- 189 



PAGE 

Vinegar, Sugar....- I'JO 

" "Whiskey 190 

Waffles, American 19 

" Plain 20 

" Rice 20 

"Wine, Art of Managing 177 

" Apple 183 

" Blackberry, "My Own" 181 

" Cherry 180 

" Damson 180 

" English Sherry 178 

" Elderberry 181 

" Grape 179 

" Ginger 182 

" Mixed Fruits 180 

" Orange 178 

" Parsnip 182 

" Raisin 178 

" Raspberry 179 

" Red Currant 179 

" Red Gooseberry 179 

" Rhubarb 180 

" Sherry, How to Imitate 183 

" To Improve Poor 1S2 

" To Restore Musty 182 

Flat... 183 

" To Rack 183 

Washing, Art of 192 

" Calicoes 196 

" Flannels 193 

" Hints on 192 

" Lawns, and Starching... 195 

Muslins 193 

" Occupying One Hour 197 

" Piques 193 

" Point Lace 195 

" Quilts 196 

" Shawls, Woolen 194 

" " Merino 194 

" Silks lOS 

" Woolens 193 



INDEX. 



395 



INDEX TO FAMILY MEDICINES. 



IPJ^S-T SIEGOISrX). 



PAGE 

Asthma Remedy 215 

" Mixture , 215 

Apoplexy 225 

JSronctaitis Keniedy 215 

'' another Remedy... 215 

Boils, Cure for 218 

Bruises, " 221 

" Swelling, to Prevent 221 

Burns, Cure for 222 

" or Scalds 222 

" " another Cure 223 

Blood Spitting 230 

Bladder Strictures 233 

Back Pain, Cure lor 236 

Bunions, Cure for 243 

Child after birth. Treatment of. 204 

Children Clothing, Rules for 206 

Cholera Infantum 210 

Convulsions in Children 211 

Cough, Soothing Syrup 212 

Croup, in Children 212 

'• another Remedy 213 

Chicken Pox 214 

Consumptive Cough 216 

Cough, Shortness in Breath 217 

" Excellent Remedy 217 

Catarrh or Cold 217 

Cancer, to Cure 219 

Consumption, German Cure 221 

" another Cure 222 

Coughs, Spitting Blood (Syrup) 230 

Chin Bleeding 2-30 

Cholera Morbus, excellent remedy 231 

Cholera Mixture 231 

Cramp, Cure for 232 



FAOe 

Cramp, in Stomach 232 

Costive Habits, Pills for 232 

Cholic, Painters', Cure for 238 

Cold Cream 242 

Chilblains 242 

" another Remedy 242 

Corns, Cure for 243 

Corns, Soft, Cure for 243 

Corn Plaster 243 

Deformities and Distortions... 207 

Dropsy of Abdomen 217 

" Excellent Remedy 218 

Deafness, Cure for 227 

" Another Remedy 227 

Diarrhoea, Cure for 231 

Dysentery, " 231 

Diptheria, " 234 

Dyspepsia, " 235 

" Centennial Cure for 235 

Debility 235 

Drowning, to Restore 239 

Exercise, Children 209 

Erysipelas, Cure for 215 

Earache, Cure for 226 

Eyes, Soreness, Cure 227 

" Weak, Strengthen 227 

" Speck or Ulcers, Cure 227 

Family Medicines 203 

Full Instructions for Infants 204 

Flames, A Body in 223 

Fever, Billious 224 

" Typhus, Cure for 224 

" and Ague " 224 

Feverish Thirst, Drink 224 

Fever, Intermittent 224 



a9G 



INDEX. 



Felon, Cure for 22b 

" Safe Remedy 225 

Fits, Falling, Epilepsy 232 

Flux, Cure for 239 

Frost Bites 242 

Feet, Frost Bites, Itching 242 

" Offensive, Cure for 243 

" Swollen, " 243 

Cjrlping' in Children 2U 

Gout'; Rheumatic 223 

Gravel, Remedy 233 

Hoarseness, Cure 216 

Headache, Nervous 226 

Hair, To Promote Growth 226 

Head," Baldness 226 

Hydrophobia, Cure for 229 

Hysterics, Cure for 232 

Hiccoughs, " 234 

" Powder for 234 

Heartburn, Cure for 234 

" Lozenges 235 

Hands, Chapped 241 

" " Another Cure 241 

" Numbed or Trembling 241 

Itcll, Cure for 220 

Intestines, Inflammation 229 

Jaw Ache 227 

Jaundice, Cure for 239 

Kidueys, Remedy 232 

liOck Jaw Relief 214 

Lungs, Soundness 221 

Liver Complaint 229 

Lungs, Bleeding at 230 

Languor, Nervous * 236 

Lightning, Struck, to Restore 240 

Lip Salve 241 

Montb, Sore, Children 211 

Measles and Scarlatina 213 

Mad Dogs, Dr. Stoye's Cure 228 

Mumps, Cure for 234 

Nipples, Sore, Ointment 209 

Navel, Soreness, Child 210 

Nipples Inflamed, Child 211 

Neuralgia, Cure for 226 

■' and Pain Killer 226 

Nose Bleeding, to Arrest 230 

" Another Remedy... 2-30 



i-AGE 

Night Sweats, Cure 239 

Proud Flesh, to Remove - 219 

Pile Ointment 220 

" Another Remedy 220 

" Liniment for 220 

Poisons, Antidotes or Remedies... 237 

Painters' Cholic 238 

Quincy, Cure for 233 

Gargle for 233 

Ring: Worms, Cure for 219 

Rheumatism Cure for 223 

" Chronic, Cure for.... 223 

" Inflammatory 223 

Rattlesnake, Poison of 237 

Sick Room Chamber 201 

Sleep for Infants 206 

Sick Chamber, Purify the Air 208 

Summer Complaint 210 

Scurf on Head, Ointment 211 

Scarlet Fever Remedy 213 

Small Pox, Cure for 213 

" Pitting, Prevent 214 

Salt Rheum 216 

Skin Blotches, Cure 218 

Salve, Deshler'3 Original 218 

Scrofula Remedy 220 

Sprains, Remedies 221 

" Liniment 221 

Scalds, Cure for 222 

Summer Complaint, Cure for 231 

Spirits, Depression of 235 

Sunstroke, Cure for 236 

" Another Cure for 236 

Snake Bites, Remedy 237 

Stings, Hornets, Wasps, Bees 238 

Teething:, Children 20 

Throat, Sore, Cure 216 

" " Infallible Cure 216 

Tetter, Cure for 219 

Turn of Life 225 

Teeth, Filling Decayed 227 

Tooth Ache, Cure for 228 

" Drops 228 

Toes, Ingrowing Nails 242 

Urine, Incontinence 233 

" Another Remedy 233 

" " " 233 



INDEX. 



397 



PAGE 

Taccination, Children 207 

Visiting the Sick 208 

Vermin in Hair 212 

Weaning Children, Rules 205 

" " Food After 205 

Worms in Children 212 

" Another Kemedy 212 

Whooping Cough 213 



PAGE 

Whooping Cough, AnotherRemedy 213 

White Swelling at Joints 214 

" Another Remedy.. 214 

White or Hard Swellings, Dissolve 215 
" " " Another 

[Remedy 215 

Wen, Cure for 225 

What shall we eat 244 



INDEX TO FARMING. 



FJL.-^iT TI3:II^XD. 



PAGE 

Art of Farming 247 

Bees 295 

" Art of Managing 295 

" Honey, Taking, without 

[Killing 295 

" Honey, to Purify 296 

" Miller, to Destroy 296 

Buttercups, to Prevent Growth in 

[Grass 257 

Butter, Art of Making 259 

" Churning 202 

" Coloring of 265 

" Improving Strong and 

[Rancid 265 

" Milking of Cows 261 

" MilkRoom.Tempcratureof 201 

" Packing and Shipping 265 

" Rolls and Prints 265 

" To Freshen 265 

" Working 263 

" Washing and Salting 263 

Cbeese, Art of Making 267 

" Cream, to Make 268 

" Dutch, " 209 

" Material in Making 266 



PAGE 

Cheese, Milk, to turn 266 

" " Temperature 237 

" " Preparation of. 267 

" Rennet, to Prepare 266 

" Room for Curing 2G9 

" Sage, to Make 269 

" To Preserve Sound 209 

Cows, Summer Pasture for 260 

" Winter Food for 261 

Cows and Cattle '. 271 

" Art of Selecting 271 

' Administering Medicine.... 272 

" Bleeding, Rules for 273 

" Bowels, Inflamed, Remedy 

[for 274 
" Black Tongue, Remedy for 275 
" " Leg, " 273 

" Bee and Hornet Stings, 

[Remedy for 276 
" Bite of Poisonous Snakes, 

[Remedy for 276 
" Choking, Remedy for 273 

" Colic, " 275 

" Eyes Inflamed, " 276 

" Flesh Wounds, " 273 



398 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Cows, Hoven or Swelling, 

[Remedy for 274 
" Hollow Horn, " 275 

" Hide Bound, " 27G 

" Lice, " 274 

" Lock Jaw, " 276 

" Loss of Cud, " 27G 

" Physic for 272 

" Purging Drink for 273 

" Poison, Remedy for 273 

" Red Water, " 274 

" Teats, Sore, " 276 

" Tar Water for 272 

" Yellows or Jaundice, 

[Remedy for 275 
Caterpillars on Trees, to Destroy... 252 

Canary Birds 293 

" Asthma Remedy for 294 

" Bowels, Intlamcd, 

[Remedy for 294 
" Costiveness, Remedy 

[for 294 
" Diarrhoea, Remedy 

[for 294 
" Epilepsy, Remedy 

[fcr 294 

" Voice, to Restore 294 

Digr Deep for Gold 247 

Dried Fruit, to Protect 256 

Dairy, Instructions for 259 

Early Potatoes in Spring 249 

Evergreens, to Make Grow 

[Compact 254 
Frozen Potatoes, Remedy for.... 249 

Fruit, Premature 252 

'' Trees near Barn Yards 252 

" " to Preserve from Mice 253 

" " Preventive from 

[Insects 253 

Flowers, to Expand 255 

Grain, Musty, to Correct 2J9 

" to Preserve 249 

Grafting, New Method 253 

Grapes, Quickest way to Procure.. 255 

" To Preserve 256 

Horses 282 

" Advice in Selecting 283 



PAGE 

Horses, Asthma , 286 

'• Ankle Sprain, Remedy 

[for 288 
" Botts, Remedy for 287 

" Cold or Cough " 285 

" Canker in, " 286 

Colic, " 287 

" Distemper, " 285 

" Epizooty, " 285 

" Eyes, Sore, Wash for 286 

" Founder, Remedy for 287 

" Frog Ail, Remedy for 288 

" Gripes, Remedy for 287 

" Galled Backs, Liniment 

[for 289 

.'' Hoof, Ointment for "ESg 

" Knee, " 288 

" Lampass, Remedy for 286 

" Liniment 290 

" Poll Evil, Remedy for 286 

" Purging, to Check 287 

" Purgative Mixture 238 

" Powder, Excellent for 

[Horses and Cattle 200 
" Ring Bone, Remedy for... 2S9 
Surfeit in, " ... 3^ 

" Scours, " ... 235 

" Staggers, " ... 280 

" Swellings, " ... 288 

" Spavin, " ... 289 

" Scratches, " ... 289 

String Halt, " ... 289 

" Sand Cracks, " ... 289 

" Tongue, Sore, " ... 284 

" Thrush, " ... 288 

" Wind, Broken, " ... 287 

" " Galls, " ... 288 

Mice, To Drive from Fields 257 

Orchard, Six Reasons for 

[Planting 250 
" General Hints on 

[Planting 251 

Peacb Worm, To Destroy 252 

Potato Bug, To Destroy 255 

Plants, To Free from Leaf Lice.... 255 

Poultry 290 

" Art of Selecting 290 



AND GENERAL GUIDE. 



399 



PAGE 

Poultry, Cholera in 292 

" Dressing and Shipping, 

Instructions for 203 
" Eggs.To Distinguish Sex of 201 
'• Fowls, to Fatten Shortly... 291 
" Flux or Looseness, 

Remedy for 292 

" Gapes, Cure for 291 

" Hens, to Lay in Winter... 290 

" Insects, To Destroy 293 

" Lice on, " " 29 

" Legs, Scabby," 292 

" Pip or Gapes, Cure for 292 

" Turkeys, To Fatten 

[Shortly 291 
Rose Trees, To Clear of Blight... 255 

Rats, To Keep from Corn 257 

Seed Required per Acre 248 

Sound Logic 24S 

Straw, Mixed with Clover 249 

Shrubs, Flowering, To Prune 254 

Standard Weights of Grain, Seed, 

[ic. 2.'i8 

Sheep 277 

Costiveness, Remedy for 278 
Foot Rot, " 277 

Foul Noses, " 277 

Lice and Ticks on, " 277 

Lungs, Inflammation of. 278 

Mouth, Sore and Swollen 278 



PAGE 

Sheep, Pelt Root, Remedy for 277 

" Poison, Eating 278 

" Protection from Dogs. Foxes 

and Wolves 278 
" Rot, Remedy lor 277 

•' Staggers, " 277 

" Scours in, " 278 

Swine 279 

" Advice in Selecting 279 

" A Pig, How to Choose 279 

" Brain, Inflamed, Remedy for 280 
" Black Teeth, ^ " 2S0 

" Blind Staggers, " 280 

" Colds and Coughs, " 280 

" Itch, Scab or Mange, " 281 

" Measles, Remedy for " 279 

" Pox, " 281 

" Quincy, " 280 

" Sore Throat, " 279 

" Throat Swelling, " 280 

" Universal Remedy, 281 

Trees, To Protect from Hares.... 253 

Tulips, To Expand 255 

Tobacco, Growing 256 

Ve§;ctables, To Preserve all 

[Winter 250 

Vines, To Stop from Bleeding 253 

" To Destroy Insects in 253 

Weeds, To Banish 257 



INDEX TO MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



PAGE 

Ants, To Expel 300 

" on Barrels, Preventive for 301 

Apple Butter, To Make 306 

Boils, Remedy for „ 298 

Blacking, for Shoes _ 299 

Baldness, To Prevent 301 

Butter, Yellow, in Winter 302 

Bed Bug Poison 305 



PAGE 

Breath, To Purify 3o5 

Butter, To Extract Rancidity 307 

€bina. To Mend 297 

Children, Burning, To Protect....- 298 
Composition, Waterproof, for 

[Boots and Shoes 299 

Cologne, To Make 301 

Cattle, To Prevent Bloating 301 



400 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Colors, To Wash 303 

Cement for Glass and Wood 303 

Castor Oil, Best Way to Take »304 

Canary Birds, To Clean 304 

Cream, Substitute for 304 

Corn Seed, Soaked in Saltpetre 305 

Carpets, To Clean 305 

China, Method of Cleaning 306 

Collars, Linen, To Glaze 306 

Crape, Rusty, To Restore 307 

Dyeing, New Acid for 306 

Diet, for theSic^ 307 

Eggs, To Color 303 

Frost out of Fruit, Ac 297 

Furs, To Preserve 293 

Furniture Varnish 298 

Freckles, To Remove 298 

Feathers, To Cuil 298 

Fish, in Living State, To Preserve 299 

Fever Diet 300 

Feathers, White, To Clean 301 

Fleas, on Dogs, To Destroy 302 

Fire, To Extinguish 302 

Fruit Spots, To take out 303 

" To Color Yellow 304 

Flowers, Faded, To Restore 30.5 

Grass, in Yards, To Prevent 

[Growing 299 
Grease Spots, To Extract from 

[Paper 299 

Grapes, To Keep 303 

Gilding, upon Silver 303 

Herb Bitters, Superior 297 

Hard Water, To Soften 297 

Hair, Grow Rich, Soft and Glossy 298 

" To Increase Growth 301 

House on Fire, To Escape from 302 

Hair Dye, Liquid 306 

Ink, To Extract from Floors 299 

" To Make Good 299 

Iron Stains, out of Marble 300 

Ink, Red, To Make 302 

Iron Castings, To Bronze 305 

Japan, Black, for Leather™ 300 

Jockey Club, American 302 

Knives, To Clean 303 

Ijamps, To Prevent Smoking.... 302 



PAr,E 

Mildefr in Wheat 2J7 

Mould, in Ink, Prevent 300 

Matches, ComiJosition for 300 

Meat, To Preserve in Hot Weather 301 

Metals, Paste for Cleaning 303 

Mosquito Bites 304 

Moths, To Keep from Clothes 304 

Milk, Turning Sour, To Prevent... 306 

Srightmare, To Prevent 301 

Onion, Smell on Breath, To 

Remove 306 

Oats, the Best, the Cheapest 306 

Plated Ware, To Clean 298 

Passover Cake 298 

Potatoe Crop, To Increase 300 

Paint, To Extract from Cotton, 

[.Silk, &c. 300 

Paint, for Brick Houses 301 

Poultice, for a Fester 302 

Plums, To Keep 303 

Potatoe Salad 304 

Poultice, Mustard 307 

Rust out of Steel 297 

Rats, To Expel from House 298 

Rose Pomatum, 299 

Ribbons, To Renew 300 

Sbaving Soap 297 

Sealing Wax, To Make 299 

Straw, To Bleach 331 

Soap, from Scraps 302 

Scarlet Fever, Cure for 303 

Stains, To Take, from Mahogany... 303 

Stoves, To Polish 304 

Seidlitz Powders 305 

Shingle Roofs, Washed with Lime 306 

Syrup, Raspberry 307 

Toads, Benefit of 233 

Tea Kettles, To Prevent Crust 299 

Tomatoe Ketchup 3o0 

Tooth Powder, to Make 301 

Teeth, To Fasten 30G 

Tea, Flaxseed 307 

Warts, To Remove 237 

Wagon Grease, To Make 302 

Wounds, To Prevent Mortifying... 304 

Windsor Soap, Genuine 305 

Whitewash, Adhesive 307 



INDEX. 



401 



NOT CLASSIFIED. 



PAGE 

Beef Tea 79 

Broth, Chicken 80 

" Veal 80 

Beefsteak Dumplings 124 

Crullers, Excellent 34 

Floating: Island 48 

Cireeu Turtle, To Dress 81 



PAGE 

Peaeb Marmalade 62 

Peaches, To Spice 71 

Pepper Pot 80 

Sour Crout 94 

To Iron Clothes 198 

Water Ices, To Make 189 

Weights and Measures ».. 191 



INDEX TO EVENTS AND ILLUSTRATIONS. 



I=JL3=2,T ^'OTJIiTII. 



PAGE 

Academy of Natural Science, (New) 330 

Athenxum _ 339 

Academy of Music 841 

Academy of Fine Arts 341 

Agricultural Hall 882 

Birth Place of "Liberty" 320 

Building where first American Flag was made 321 

Benjamin Franklin 326 

Bridge over Wissahickon, at Valley Green 372 

Bridge near Mt. Airy 872 

Coat of Arms, United States 808 

Christ's Church 317 

Carpenters' Hall - 319 

Chestnut Street Bridge 348 

Columbia Bridge over Schuylkill ~. 363 

Centennial Memorial Medal „ 375 

Coat of Arms of State of Peonsylvaniiu „ 386 



402 INDEX. 

PAGE 

Drinking: Fountain on Wissahickon 371 

Driye on the Wissahickon Creek 371 

£%'ents, Landing of Penn 309 

" Arrival of Swedes and Friends 311 

" Present Wealtii'and Population 312 

" Squares in the City 313 

Eastern Penitentiary 344 

Entrance to Fairmount Park at Green Street S58 

' Entrance to West Park by Girard Avenue Bridge 358 

Exhibition Grounds, Information 374 

Franklin's Grave 326 

Fire Scene in 1776 327 

Fire Apparatus in 1876 327 

Farmers' Market House, (Interior View)... 328 

Fountain in Franklin Square 3.53 

Fairmount Park 356 

Fountain in East Park 357 

Fairmount Basin 359 

Fountain near Mineral Spring 362 

George Washington 313 

Girard College 325 

Girard Avenue Bridge 360 

Government of the United States 384 

Horticnltaral Hall, (Broad Street) 341 

Hermit's Pool 367 

Hemlock Glen on Wissahickon .\ 373 

Horticultural Hall 377 

Independence Hall in 1776 , 323 

« " 1876 324 

Institution for Blind 335 

Institution for Deaf and Dumb 335 

Jndg:es' Hall 379 

L<aurel Hill Cemetery 337 

Logan Square 353 

Lemon Hill and Boat Houses 361 

Laurel HUl Cemetery 365 

Martha Washington 318 

Market Street Ferry 328 

Musical Fund Hall 342 

Moyamensing Prison 343 

Monster Pines in West Park 368 

Memorial Hall or Art Gallery 376 

Main Exhibition Building 378 

Machinery Hall 378 

TSeTW Library Building 339 

New Commercial Exchange 346 

New Masonic Temple 351 



INDEX. 403 

New Public Buildings 352 

Odd Fellows' Cemetery 338 

Old Commercial Exchange 345 

Old Girard Bank 345 

Odd Fellows' Hall 350 

Old Wire Bridge 359 

Officers of United States Centennial Commission 374 

Old Swedes' Church 316 

Pbiladelphia, History of, from 1609 to 1876 309 

Penn's Treaty 314 

" Statue 315 

" First Cottage 315 

Pennsylvania Hospital 329 

Pennsylvania College 330 

Pennsylvania Hospital for Insane 332 

Preston Retreat 334 

Philadelphia Library ; 340 

Pennsylvania Rail Road Bridge 358 

Presidents of United States from 1789 to 1876 383 

Klver Steamboat 354 

Ravine in West Park 369 

Signing Declaration of Independence 322 

Stephen Girard 325 

Ship in Full Sail 354 

Strawberry Mansion 36^ 

Sweetbriar Vale „ 369 

The Original "Thirteen" United States 383 

United States Naval Asylum 344 

University of Pennsylvania 321 

United States Custom House 347 

United States Mint 343 

Union League Building 349 

United States Capitol at Washington, D. C 355 

United States Government Building 380 

United States Supreme Court 385 

United States Army 385 

United States Navy 385 

View on Schuylkill from Laurel Hill 3G4 

View from Belmont in West Park 366 

Vice Presidents from 1789 to 1876 384 

WUl'sEye Hospital .': 333 

Water Works and Dam 359 

Wissahickon Drive 370 

Women's Pavilion 381 



