:C0 



iCO 



■CD 



CO 






HINTS OH FOOD 

I N 

HEALTH & DISEASE 
;0OCK.M.D, 



0. L THOMP: 

CHEM 

HOMEOPAT 



|i 394 YONG 






I 






ESSENTIALS OF DIET; 



HINTS ON FOOD, IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, 



BV THE LATE 



E. HARRIS RUDDOCK, M.D., 



L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S- 



§econb Cbitiott. 
WITH CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS 



E. B. SHULDHAM, I^I.D. Trin. Coll., Dublin, 



M.R.C.S., M.A^a* 



PRESi:RVAT;»i 
SERVICES 

PATE...M.?.U992 



LONDO 

THE HOMCEOPATHIC PUBLISHING CO.NHAXV, 

12, WARWICK LANE, PATERNOSTER ROW. 
And all Homeopathic Chemists ami Booksellers. 



tv'A 



?<^ 



(( SEP 2 J^' 19?' 



PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. 



At the dose of the year 1875, Dr. E. H. Ruddock, 
one of the most industrious workers in the field of 
medical literature, was called away suddenly to the 
unknown land. He was summoned from the activity 
and cares of life to the quiet of the grave ; his restless 
brain was full of project, it had much to plan, much 
to accomplish, but the great Powers willed it other- 
wise — they imposed upon him the one thing he had 
ever denied himself, and that was — Rest. 

Amongst his books and papers were found, nearly 
ready for publication, the following pages. His ex- 
ecutors placed them in my hands for supervision. 1 
have carefully gone through the whole of the matter 
contained therein, and have made some few alterations 
where, and only where, they seemed recjuisite ; for it 
was my wish, as far as possible, to preserve in its 
integrity the last work of our lamented friend. 



PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION. 



I will not speak of its usefulness, for this is self- 
evident ; but if there are defects (and what work is 
without them ?) let us always remember how full of 
sustained effort were the hands of the author, and let 
the responsibility of any shortcomings fall upon my 
o\\Ti shoulders ; for is it not kinder and juster to blame 
the living, who can reply, than the dead, who speak 
not? 

E. B. SHULDHAM. 



2, Poole Villas, 

Upper Richmond Road, 

Putney, 
August, 1876. London, S. W. 



PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. 



The First Edition of this Work having been so 
favourably received by the Profession and the Public, 
the Publishers have determined to make a fresh issue. 
They have entrusted the task of revision to my care, 
and as every page has been carefully gone through, 
and as fresh matter has been added, I trust that the 
Second Edition will meet with the Same kindly recep- 
tion that was accorded to the First. 

Besides occasional fresh paragraphs, I have added 
one whole chapter on the " Diet for Singers and 
Speakers," thinking that this might give additional 
interest to an already interesting subject. 

To eat and drink with judgment and with taste is, 
I presume, worth writing about, and the public, I 
trust, will learn that it is worth reading about. 

E. B. SHULDHAM. 

8, Fi.NsiJURV Place, South, 

LuNDON, E.G., 

AND 

MaYTHOKN, Gl'ILUFUKO. 



CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER I. 

PAGB 

Regulation of Diet . . .... 9 

CHAPTER n. 

Relation of Food to Nutriment .... 16 

CHAPTER HI. 
Animal Food 30 

CHAPTER IV. 
Vegetable Food .60 

CHAPTER V. 
Liquids 92 

CHAPTER VI. 
Dyspepsia 11 1 

CHAPTER VII. 
Methods of Preparing Food 209 

CHAPTER VIII. 
The Diet for .Singers and Speakers. . . 249 



Content the stomach, and the stomach will content you." 

— The Original. 



ESSENTIALS OF DIET, 

OR 

Hints on Food in Healtfi and Disease. 



CHAPTER I. 

REGULATION OF DIET. 

The subject of food is one of deep and constant 
concern both to the healthy and the sick ; not merely 
for the gratification of the taste, or even the satisfac 
tion of the appetite, but also for the maintenance of 
life. In health, diet may be left very much to the 
inclination or taste of the individual, both with respect 
to quality and quantity ; for unless the appetite be 
perverted and depraved by rich sauces and high sea- 
sonings, it is on the whole the best guide. Still, 
judgment must be exercised, otherwise in respect to 
eating and drinking man will degenerate into a mere 
animal. In disease, on the other hand, the appetite 
fails to guide, and intelligence and judgment are more 
required for the selection and rejection of the different 
articles of diet ; much more so, because the regula- 
tion of both quantity and quality acquires greater 
importance than when a person is in health. The 
taste of an invalid is so perverted that he may reject 
what is most suitable, and desire what would fre- 



REGULATION OF DIET. 



quently prove injurious ; and his appetite is so pre- 
carious that it is not to be trusted to regulate the 
appropriate quantity. Hence the severity of the 
disease might be increased, and the Hfe of the patient 
imperilled, if taste and appetite guided in the selection 
and taking of food, instead of intelligent knowledge 
of the properties of different foods, and judicious ex- 
perience in their administration. 

In not a few disorders an acquaintance with diete- 
tics is as essential to the proper treatment of the 
patient as a knowledge of materia medica ; for the 
action of a medicine may be counteracted by unsuit- 
able diet. It is of great importance to know what 
variations in food are permissible, for an invalid soon 
tires of the same food. Tea and toast may be palat- 
able for a time, but " What else may I eat ? " is soon 
the inquiry he ruefully puts. Experience shows, too, 
that there is considerable ignorance of the best 
methods of preparing the food that is suitable to the 
patient. In the present day it is deemed desirable to 
lay down for the guidance of mistresses and servants 
the principles of cooking, and to form classes and 
give public lessons in cookery. But these are for the 
food of the table, not for that of the sick-room. The 
latter requires more care in selection, more special 
attention in preparation, more delicacy in serving, 
than the former. For instance, how much good meat 
has been wasted and how many patients have been 
troubled, because a cook, instead of making good 
beef-tea, only made a thin soup ! 



DIETETIC RULES IMPORTANT. ii 

Good health can be maintained, and can also 
be restored, by the careful adoption of such rules 
of diet and regimen, as will ensure a due supply 
of healthy blood to the system. The waste that is 
constantly going on in pursuing the common duties 
of life must be repaired, and if the quality of the 
blood be deteriorated in disease, it must be improved. 
But the blood is what the food makes it. As the 
supply of food then is increased or decreased, or its 
quality altered, so the blood is affected, and the 
health is maintained or lowered. Hence the import- 
ance of attending to dietetic rules. In consequence of 
the infraction of these rules, many diseases arise. The 
badly-cooked, poor food of the working classes is often 
innutritious ; hence they suffer from various disorders, 
the best cure for which is not medicine, so much as 
suitable and properly prepared food. Those who 
have been much among the poor, visitors who have 
tended the sick, practitioners who prescribe in dis- 
pensaries, know full well how important a part defi- 
ciency or sufficiency of appropriate diet plays in the 
condition of those to whom they minister. 

The digestibility of food and its subsequent assimi- 
lation depend, as we know, as much upon the mode 
of its preparation as upon the condition of the person 
who eats it. If this is true of the " healthy," it is 
more intensely true of the " sick." Not unfrequently 
a change in the method in which food is cooked, is 
the simple means whereby it may be rendered accept- 
able, and easily digested by the individual, who had 



REGULATION OF DIET. 



previously suffered from taking it. Such change may 
make all the difference for the relief of some func- 
tional disorder of the alimentary canal. In chronic 
diseases of the digestive organs, in which the appe- 
tite may be unimpaired or even inordinately in- 
creased, attention to some dietetic regulation is of 
great importance, for in such cases there is con- 
siderable danger lest the boundaries of prudence 
should be overstepped in yielding to the urgent 
claims of appetite in taking excessive or unsuit- 
able food. 

It is almost impossible to lay down rules for the 
rational and methodical use of food in health and 
disease, for in this, as in other matters, cases must be 
individualised. Sex, age, employment, condition of 
life, physical form, idiosyncrasies, circumstances — all 
are elements in the solution of the problem, " What 
to eat and what to avoid." The father must consider 
the wants of the family, the mother the special needs 
of a frail child, the physician the peculiar require- 
ments of his patient, in making arrangements for 
suitable dieting ; no precise rules, no hard and fast 
lines, can be laid down. General principles alone can 
be enunciated ; known scientific facts can be promul- 
gated ; well-tried common experience can be re- 
corded ; then out of the materials thus supplied the 
most fitting for each case must be selected with in- 
telligence and judgment. Even when a selection is 
thus made, it unfortunately too often happens that 
instructions are not obseived. Ignorance, prejudice, 



VIOLATION OF INSTRUCTIONS WRONG. 13 

and carelessness interpose and frustrate the fulfilment 
of good intentions and judicious advice. Nevertheless, 
in spite of these drawbacks, health is maintained 
and, where impaired, is often restored. Still, one can- 
not but reflect that robust health would be more 
common, recovery more rapid, and mortality more 
diminished if dietetic rules were universally observed. 

There is a neglect, and even a positive violation, of 
instructions against which we must here enter our em- 
phatic protest. A physician prescribes certain food just 
as he prescribes certain medicine. But while the medi- 
cine may be honestly given, the food is withheld or 
other food is substituted. The patient and the friends 
of the patient often deceive the physician with refer- 
ence to diet, and deem the original transgression and 
the subsequent deception, quite venial offences which 
it is unnecessary to confess. The consequence is 
that the patient's recovery is retarded, and the 
medical man's treatment is reproached. There are 
always occurring infractions of dietetic instructions, 
of which nothing is known unless the aggravation of 
the disease is so obvious as to lead to disclosure of 
the indiscretion. 

The impossibility of prescribing fi.ved regulations 
for diet will also be evident from a consideration of the 
circumstance that some persons can take what others 
are obliged to reject. In fact, there is truth in the 
saying, " What is one man's meat is another man's 
poison." Even when there is a similar derangement 
of the digestive organs some persons can eat with 



14 REGULATION OF DIET. 

impunity what others must eschew. Some of the 
least digestible articles of food, such as fried fish, 
cabbage, cheese, fats, etc., can be eaten by some 
dyspeptics while others cannot partake of them with- 
out suffering severely. 

In considering the kinds and proportions of food 
to be eaten, it should be remembered that even healthy 
persons do not always assimilate all the elements 
possible, for some escape digestion, and pass out ot 
the system with the waste, for which allowance must 
be made. Food which requires some strength of 
digestive function may be thrown away upon an old 
person whose limited secretions may not dissolve it, 
and who may therefore be only insufficiently nourished 
by it, while the same food could be easily and advan- 
tageously appropriated by a young person. On the 
other hand, some easily-digested diet which would be 
suitable and sufficient for an old man would be un- 
suitable and insufficient for an active youth. The 
employments of life also necessitate variations in kind 
and quantity. Even appetite is not an infallible 
guide. Out-door work that demands physical exercise, 
and in-door work that calls for mental exercise, 
demand difference in diets. The nursing-mother 
requires more food and of a different kind from that 
taken by the quiet housewife of sixty years of age. 
The patient sufferingfrom chronic unhealthy discharges 
must meet that drain upon the system. Morbid condi- 
tions and functional derangements of different organs, 
though insufficient to be regarded as an " illness," or 



FIXED RULES IMPOSSIBLE. 15 

to keep a person from ordinary work, require considera- 
tion in regimen. The good cheer which incUides a 
considerable quantity of nitrogenous aliment is pre- 
judicial to a gouty subject, beneficial to a man who 
takes much exercise in the open air. The bread, which 
is " the staff of life," must be withheld from the 
diabetic. So that no dietetic rules can be laid down 
to suit all cases either in health or in sickness. 

When the body is in a feverish state, the mouth 
dry, the thirst great, and the pulse accelerated, very 
little gastric juice is secreted. In such a case it is 
obviously improper to take food which requires the 
solvent of the gastric juice for its digestion. It may 
contain the essence of nourishment, the very best food 
cooked in the very best manner, but utterly useless in 
the stomach, irritating to it and therefore injurious. 
In the feverish state, nmip-steak is consequently very 
unsuitable diet, more unsuitable still if garnished 
with fried onions, and washed down with a glass or 
two of beer. Little nourishment is derived from it ; 
it should therefore be avoided till feverish symptoms 
have passed away, and the stomach has regained 
its tone, however palatable the steak may be, or 
however anxious friends may be to strengthen the 
patient. At the commencement of fever there is 
loathing of everything but cold water. After a 
while the feverish symptoms abate, then toast or 
barley waters are agreeable ; then luscious fruits are 
desired and relished, the sugar they contain passing 
into the system through the mucous membranes 



l6 RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

without digestion, and making no demand on the 
powers of the stomach. Subsequently, the gastric 
and intestinal juices are sufficiently secreted to digest 
farinaceous food ; by degrees the patient is able to 
satisfy his natural appetite, convalescence becomes 
more rapid, and by-and-by rump-steak may come to 
table again. All this is dietetic regimen. 

In brief, the regulation of diet is of importance to 
both the iiealthy and the sick ; but definite rules 
cannot be laid down by which the diet may be regu- 
lated ; each one must judge for himself, or must be 
guided by the judgment of others, — judgment which 
we hope may be intelligently formed and directed by 
a perusal of the following pages. 



CHAPTER 11. 

RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

Food has been defined as a substance which, when 
introduced into the body, supplies material which 
renews some structure or maintains some vital process. 
Medicine modifies some vital action, but does not 
supply the material which sustains such action. A 
supply of suitable food is therefore essential during 
the medical treatment of disease ; for medicine alone 
will not, and is not designed to, sustain life. Neither, 
on the other hand, will changes of food so modify 
vital action when it is disordered as to render the 



ELEMENTS OF FOOD. 17 

administration of medicine superfluous. Nevertheless 
it must be allowed that diet does play an important 
part in promoting recovery from disease, and that 
some kinds of food do stimulate vital action in a 
degree far beyond the actual amount of nutritive 
material they supply. 

The body requires, for the piaintenance of its 
existence, for its growth, and for the performance of 
its functions, a variety of kinds and a variety of forms 
of food ; but as its constituent elements are limited in 
number, the chemical composition of the food need not 
include a great variety of factors. Carbon, hydrogen, 
oxygen, and nitrogen exist in far larger quantity than 
any other elements ; sulphur and phosphorus are also 
present ; but other constituents exist in only exceed- 
ingly small quantities. Food should, therefore, supply 
all these requirements in different combinations if the 
body is to be maintained in health. It is not, how- 
ever, necessary that one kind of food should yield 
every kind of material required in the structure of the 
body, for then that one would be suflficient ; but it is 
essential that it contain some of the material required ; 
and it is also essential that, by a combination of dif- 
ferent foods, all the material required is supplied. 
Some foods are undoubtedly more valuable than 
others, cither because they supply a large quantity of 
nutriment in a small compass, or because it is in such 
a state that it can be easily assimilated. These arc 
of course to be preferred when the functions of the 
body are deranged by disejise. 



1 8 RE LA TIO.Y OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

Food is required by the body for two chief purposes, 
viz. : — to produce and maintain the various tissues 
while they are fulfilling their divers vital functions, 
and to generate heat, without which life -would cease. 
That the maintenance of the tissues is of great im- 
portance is evident from the decay of life which is 
invariably associated with the wasting of the tissues. 
That the generation of heat is essential is evident 
from the fact that while waste of tissues may go on for 
a long period before death occurs, the removal or less- 
ening of heat is soon followed by the termination of 
life. When the body is in a state of disease, we have, 
therefore, to meet these two principal requirements, 
the maintenance of tissue and the maintenance of 
heat. Now, in accordance with these requirements, 
there are foods which are assimilated by particular 
tissues, and go to maintain them, called in general 
terms " flesh-formers ; " others sustain the vital heat 
and are known as " heat-formers ; " others again both 
nourish tissue and supply heat. 

Food is derived from all natural sources — from 
earth, water, and air ; from solids, liquids, and gases ; 
from substances living and organic, or inanimate and 
inorganic. The food thus variously derived is con- 
verted by the action of vital forces into those com- 
pounds, which the body can assimilate and change into 
a part of itself. But before it can be so assimilated in 
the human body, the greater part of it must become 
organic. Chemical elements uncombined are of no 
service as food. They must be built up into some 



ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE PRODUCTS. 19 

living organism to be of service. Hence our food 
generally consists of animal and vegetable products, 
the animal having been also previously derived from 
the vegetable. Indeed, all our foods are primarily 
derived from the vegetable kingdom; for no animal has 
the physiological power of combining mineral elements 
so as to form them into food. But the vegetable 
assimilates inorganic materials under the influence of 
light, storing up in itself various elements in different 
combinations essential to the formation and nutriment 
of vegetable and animal structures. So, without taking 
much inorganic matter directly into the system, we 
obtain what is necessary through its presence in the 
organic. 

In popular language, what is taken into the system 
is termed "food" and "drink," the former including 
solid, the latter liquid, matter. But, convenient as 
these designations may be, they do not accurately 
represent the facts of the case. Milk, for instance, is 
very rich in solids ; while nine-tenths of the compo- 
nent parts of turnips consist of water. A better classi- 
fication, therefore, is to arrange all food, whether 
liquid or solid, into organic and inorganic portions — 
the organic comprising those elements which are com- 
bined and produced only through the agency of some 
living structure, whether vegetable or animal, and the 
inorganic those which are derived directly from the 
mineral kingdom. Water and salt are inorganic. 

In view of their chemical composition, organic foods 
are generally classified as nitrogenous and non-nitro- 



20 RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

genous. The nitrogenous consist of carbon, oxygen, 
hydrogen, and nitrogen, in different proportions, witli 
generally the addition of sulphur and phosphorus. 
The non-nitrogenous consist of only the first three 
ingredients. 

It will be observed that the presence or absence of 
nitrogen constitutes the chief difference between these 
classes ; and as it enters very largely into the compo- 
sition of the body, an abundant supply of it is essen- 
tial. Some may suppose that, as this is an important 
constituent of the atmosphere — four-fifths of which are 
nitrogen — it might be imbibed from the air ; but it is 
not. It is derived from the food, and must be intro- 
duced into the system in combination with other 
organic elements. 

Among nitrogenous foods, the flesh or muscular 
tissue of animals contains the elements which are 
required for forming flesh and generating heat. 
Hence life could be maintained for a considerable 
time on animal food alone. Bread, among vegetable 
foods, also contains nearly all the elements required 
for nutrition, 

Nitrogenous foods must all undergo the process of 
digestion before they can be assimilated and form 
part of the body. This process is really one of com- 
minution and liquefaction. The food is reduced to a 
finely divided state by the action of the teeth, the 
muscles of the mouth, and the saliva ; when it reaches 
the stomach it is further disintegrated by the action of 
the gastric juice with which it is brought into contact 



NITROGENOUS FOOD. 



by the motion of this organ. Thence it passes out in 
a state of fluidity, as a very soluble and diffusible pro- 
duct, called chyme, and easily transmitted to the blood- 
vessels. The food has now lost its characteristic 
properties, but how the change has been wrought it is 
not easy to determine. Should any portion of the 
food, however, pass from the stomach undissolved, it 
is subjected to a supplementary digestive process in 
the bowel. The intestinal fluid and the pancreatic 
juice act as solvents ; and the bile (though it does not 
appear to possess any solvent power) is incorporated 
with the food, which is now in a condition ready for 
absorption and for application to its proper use. 
Under meat diet there is a more copious secretion 
of gastric juice, under vegetable the saliva is more 
abundant, showing that there is provision in the system 
for variation in the food, and that uniformity in food 
is immaterial. 

The primary use of nitrogenous food is to develop 
and renew the various tissues ; its secondary use is 
to facilitate the absorption of non-nitrogenous food. 
Wherever there is life, nitrogenous food must be 
])resent to sustain it ; non-nitrogenous food contributes 
to its support : without the former the latter would 
be useless ; the former being present, the latter is a 
very valuable auxiliary. Nitrogenous food is the main 
tissue-former, but it also to some extent produces force. 
Non-nitrogenous food produces force, but it also in 
some measure contributes to the formation of tissue. 
Indeed, the best materials for the production of work- 



22 RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

ing power, as well as heat, are the non-nitrogenous 
principles, and of these the fats are more effective 
than others. 

Non-nitrogenous food comprises (i) fats, (2) starch 
and sugar, (3) alcohol and vegetable acids. 

Fat is found in both animal and vegetable products. 
It undergoes little change in the mouth and stomach ; 
but by the action of the pancreatic juice in the small 
intestine, it is digested and reduced to a minute state 
of subdivision, ready for absorption through small 
projecting filaments (villi) into the lacteal system, by 
which it is conveyed into the general circulation of 
the blood. It is by this means deposited in the 
various tissues, fills up interstices between muscles, 
bones, and vessels, gives regularity to the form of the 
body, assists in the retention of the heat of the body, 
and forms a reserve of force-producing material, to be 
utilised when required. It holds the highest place as 
a heat-former, for by its oxidation heat is generated in 
the system. It also appears to facilitate the assimila- 
tion of other forms of food ; and there is a prevalent 
opinion that if it is not supplied in sufficient quantity 
scrofulous disorders are developed. 

Starch cannot be assimilated without change ; when 
raw, it passes out of the system unaltered. If it is 
boiled, the granules burst, and the particles are ready 
for conversion into sugar. This conversion would 
take place in the mouth under the influence of sahva 
if the food remained there for a sufficient length of 
time. But it is usually swallowed at once ; and when 



NON-NITROGENOUS FOOD. 



it reaches the stomach the gastric juice arrests the 
action of the saUva. It then passes on in a semi- 
fluid state to the small intestine, where the digestion 
really takes place. The intestinal secretion and the 
pancreatic juice act energetically on the starch, soften 
and break up the granules, and convert the particles 
into sugar. 

Sugar is so easily diffused that it requires no pre- 
liminary digestive process to prepare it for assimila- 
tion. It passes without change into the circulation. 
If, however, it is supplied in excess of the require- 
ments of the system, when it reaches the stomach it 
undergoes lactic acid fermentation, and thus occasions 
the acidity from which some dyspeptics suffer. When 
not in excess, the sugar is carried on to the liver, 
where it undergoes certain changes which lead us to 
conclude that it contributes to the production of fat, 
but not to the production of force. 

Alcohol is very rapidly diffused through the system. 
Some portion of what is taken is evaporated through 
the lungs and expired with the breath ; some is elimi- 
nated by the liver and kidneys ; and the rest remains 
for a long time diffused through non-excreting organs, 
where it is transnmted into new compounds. Its 
actual dietetic position is scarcely determined, al- 
thougli many researches have been made, and much 
has been written on the subject. The most recent 
researches, however, appear to show that alcohol 
yields no nutriment, but that it acts merely as a stimu- 
lant, with variable advantage or injury to the constitu- 



24 RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

tion. It contains no nitrogen, and has therefore none of 
the qualities of tissue-forming foods ; nor is it capable 
of being transformed into them ; hence it is not a 
food in the sense of being a constructive agent in 
building up the body. It is very doubtful whether 
it produces fatty matter, except by an indirect and in- 
judicious interference with natural processes; though 
there is reason to suppose that it lessens to some 
extent the elimination of fat already existing. If 
there be any fattening it is not confined to the ex- 
ternal development of fat, but it extends to a degene- 
ration through the minute structures of the vital 
organs, including the heart, inducing what is termed 
its " fatty degeneration." Alcohol does not produce 
warmth, nor sustain it ; the glow which is felt is decep- 
tive, for that is due to congestion, like the warmth of 
inflammation ! hence the serious error of taking it in- 
cold weather, when the alcohol and cold act in com- 
bination, producing congestion of the lungs and other 
vital organs, and often leading to fatal consequences. 
Nor does alcohol give and sustain strength ; there is 
muscular excitement, which is mistaken for muscular 
power, produced at the expense of the tissue, and 
drawing upon its reserve of force ; there is, in fact, 
nervous stimulus, but muscular enfeeblement. There 
are unquestionably occasions when it is necessary to 
produce the stimulus, even at the cost of subsequent 
reaction and debility ; when, for instance, an enfeebled 
or fainting heart is temporarily relieved by that relaxa- 
tion of the arterial vessels which the diffusion of 



ALCOHOL. 25 

alcohol through the blood induces, or when the 
flagging circulation of approaching death needs to be 
quickened that life may be maintained. But the im- 
pression that this spirit gives permanent strength for 
sustained work is as erroneous as it is common. 
When alcohol is taken in very moderate quantity, it 
increases the activity of the circulation, causing the 
heart to beat more rapidly, the pulse to become faster 
and fuller, and the arteries and arterioles to dilate, 
thus producing a characteristic flushing of the face ; 
it increases the secretion of urine, stimulates the 
appetite, aids digestion, excites the nervous system, 
and exhilarates the intellectual and emotional facul- 
ties. But the price to be paid for all this may be too 
high, and the habitual use of even a moderate quan- 
tity may lead slowly but surely to degenerative 
changes. The large majority of those who drink 
alcohol with any of its various admixtures are injured 
by it — especially the young and " full-blooded." 

Taken in large quantities, the immediate effect of 
alcohol is depressing and narcotic. It produces para- 
lysis of the minute arterioles of the circulatory system, 
so that they lose some of their contractility and 
become dilated with the flowing blood. This is seen 
in flushing of the face. But all the internal organs 
are similarly affected, so that there is general vascular 
engorgement and consequent derangement and ex- 
iiaustion. Simultaneously, in consequence of its 
affinity for water, it alters the condition of the blood, 
causing arrest of chemical changes and alterations in 



26 RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

the composition and forms of the corpuscles. Then 
there follows an affection of the spinal cord, involv- 
ing enfeeblement of nervous stimulus and a corre- 
sponding deficiency of control over certain muscles. 
A tottering gait is an indication of this. The brain 
centres are then affected, the controlling influence 
of the will and judgment are lost, and the emotions 
and instincts arc not held in due subordination. This 
is followed by complete collapse of the nervous func- 
tions, the senses becoming all benumbed, and con- 
sciousness lost. 

The ultiviatc effect of immoderate drinking is com- 
plete degeneration, and this degeneration is certainly 
not confined to those who are notoriously intemperate, 
or may be designated drunkards. Women accustomed 
to take wine in quantities which they would not deem 
immoderate, and who would be shocked at the impu- 
tation that they were taking too much, have proved 
unfortunately that they have really taken to excess. 
The appetite is impaired, digestion is arrested, dys- 
pepsia follows, sleeplessness is produced, muscular 
power — especially of the legs — is enfeebled, the or- 
ganic tissues suffer direct deterioration in their struc- 
ture, and a diseased state is set up in the internal 
organs. The heart is enlarged, its relative parts being 
thrown out of proportion, its orifices dilated, its valves 
stretched, its filamentous cords dilated, and its walls 
thickened. The liver also undergoes structural 
changes; it becomes enlarged by the production of 
albuminoid and fatty deposit, or by the increase of 



EFFECTS OF IMMODERATE DRINKING. 27 

connective tissue, and finally there supervenes con- 
traction, atrophy of the canals and cells, forming that 
gnarled condition known as " gin-drinker's liver." 
The kidney is deteriorated by fatty modifications, 
and its functions are impeded. The minute vessels 
of the lungs are relaxed and easily congested, and the 
molecular constitution of their tissue is altered : 
hence chronic bronchitis is common among those 
who take much alcohol ; while consumption, often 
unsuspected, but of a most fatal form, carries off hard 
drinkers in the prime of life. Other organic changes 
also take place, the crystalline lens and retina of the 
eye are injured and the sight is impaired, an excess of 
salts is produced in the urine, and gravel and stone 
are deposited ; indeed, there is not an organ that is 
unaffected. The brain and spinal cord and the whole 
nervous system suffer, giving rise to serious derange- 
ments, which manifest themselves in the worst forms 
of nervous disease, such as loss of memory and 
speech, epilepsy, paralysis, or insanity. And these 
derangements, it should be remembered, are more or 
less transmitted to degenerate offspring. Of the 
moral effects we say nothing here, although we can- 
not be oblivious of them. 

The effects of alcohol are no doubt much modified 
by the substances with which it is associated, — the 
water, the acids, the oils, and the extractives; saccha- 
rine and nitrogenous matters stimulate the respiratory 
functions, while its dilution lessens the demand on the 
water of the blood and the secretions. The obviously 



28 RELATION OF FOOD TO NUTRIMENT. 

useful action of alcohol is, when taken in small quan- 
tities, to improve the appetite, and to promote activity 
of the circulation, which within certain limits may be 
beneficial. It may thus ward off morbid conditions 
consequent on atonic dyspepsia, and may prevent 
anjemia, emaciation, premature old age from worry, 
melancholy, sleeplessness, and other ill effects. 

For such action a man ought not to take more than 
the amount of alcohol contained in two glasses of a 
light sherry in twenty-four hours ; a woman less ; 
any amount beyond that produces decidedly bad 
effects. When taken it should not be in the morn- 
ing, or when work has to be done, but when toil 
has produced stiffness, when the brain-wear has 
wrought weariness, when the nerve-tissue has been 
strained or drained, when the evening of the day 
has come. It should never be taken between meals, 
but only when some substantial food is taken ; never 
when it lessens appetite, but only when it increases 
the desire for and power of digesting food ; never 
in a close, impure atmosphere, but when a free 
supply of fresh air fully and promptly aerates the 
blood ; never adulterated, but always good. Young 
men and women, and, above all, children, should 
take no alcohol at all. Invalids should be guided by 
their professional advisers. 

Water undergoes no chemical change in the system, 
and produces no force ; yet it is indispensable as a 
component part of food, for it facilitates the chemical 
change swhich take place in the food. 



REQUIREMENTS VARY. 29 

The other inorganic principles which arc necessary 
to a heaUhy condition of the body are compounds of 
Hme, potash, magnesia, soda, and iron ; together with 
l)hosphoric acid, carbonic acid, chlorine, and sulphuric 
acid. Lime and phosphoric acid are of most import- 
ance. 

The amount of food required varies with different 
individuals ; ver)' much depends on age, sex, climate, 
season of the year, physical and mental exertion. All 
vital processes, including the assimilation of food, are 
most rapid in early life, and least rapid in old age. In 
childhood and youth there is also the necessity for mak- 
ing provision for the growth of all parts of the body, as 
well as the rapid discharge of functions. Man requires 
more nitrogenous food than woman. The vital pro- 
cesses are also most active in spring, least so at the 
end of summer ; more energetic in cold climates than 
in hot, in highlands than in valleys. Exercise always 
stimulates these processes. 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



CHAPTER III. 

ANIMAL FOOD. 

The structure of animal food is identical with that 
of the human body ; hence nothing is required in 
addition to it in order to maintain life. Its chief 
characteristic is that it contains a large proportion of 
nitrogenous material ; but with it there is usually 
mingled, either naturally or artificially, so much fat 
or other non-nitrogenous material that it is adapted 
both for the formation of tissue and for the produc- 
tion of heat and other force. Undue importance is 
given by some persons to animal food, as if that alone 
really nourished the system, and supplied what is 
required for work and recovery of strength. No ■ 
doubt it appeases hunger more thoroughly than 
vegetable diet, and satisfies longer, because it is 
concentrated nourishment, and the stomach retains 
this kind of food for a longer time than vegetable 
food. Animal food is also easily cooked, and by 
some is more easily digested than vegetable ; it 
increases the amount of fibrin, phosphates and other 
salts, and the number of red corpuscles in the 
blood ; it produces firmness of muscle, it increases 
the urinary secretion both in quantity and in amount 
of effete nitrogenous matter, thus necessitating the 
consumption of an increased quantity of fluid. 
Vegetable food has a tendency to increase the 



COMPARATIVE VALUES OF FLESH. 31 

deposition of fat. Mr. Banting found that by lessen- 
ing the amount of vegetable diet he was enabled 
to reduce his corpulence : this result might be due 
not only to diminution of the fat-producing ele- 
ments, but also to the increased oxidation through 
the lungs induced by the excess of nitrogenous 
materials. Physiological considerations and expe- 
rience teach us that a mixed diet is best adapted 
to the requirements of the body ; and that the propor- 
tion of animal food should be one-fourth, or rather 
more, of the total supply. 

Animal food comprises (i) the different parts of 
animals, (2) eggs, (3) milk and its products. 

The flesh of young animals is more tender than that 
of old, but it is not so easily digested. The flesh of 
middle-aged animals is more nutritive, and has a 
fuller flavour than that of young. The flesh of old 
animals, though nutritive, is often very tough. Young 
and quickly-fed animals ' have more water and fat in 
their flesh, whilst older and well-fed animals have 
flesh of a firmer touch and fuller flavour, and are 
richer in nitrogen. The former may be more delicate, 
the latter are more _ nutritious ; animals of middle 
age, therefore, afford the most digestible and fullest 
flavoured food. The larger the animal, the coarser the 
meat. The tenderness and good qualities of Welsh 
mutton are too well known to be commented on here, 
beyond saying that mountain sheep are small. The 
flesh of the female is more finely grained and deli- 
cate than that of the male. During the breeding 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



season flesh is unsuitable for food. The flesh of wild 
animals has less fat than that of well-fed domestic 
animals, but it has more flavour. The character 
and flavour of the meat are much affected by the 
food eaten. The fat of cattle fed on oil-cake 
is yellow ; the flesh of sheep fed on turnips has a 
flavour of the vegetable ; that of mountain sheep is 
affected by the fragrant herbage on which they graze. 
The violent exercise taken before death makes ih," 
flesh very tender of animals killed in the chase. The 
removal of blood in slaughter, while it involves waste 
of nutritive material, improves the flavour of the 
flesh, and renders it more easy of preservation. 
Hanging the meat improves its tenderness, if it be 
kept after the rigor mortis has passed away. But the 
best meat may be rendered unwholesome by decom- 
position. Low-priced meat may be obtained which 
is very dear, for the animal may have suffered from 
disease, and thus become unfit for human food. 
Animals that have been saturated by powerful medi- 
cines are also unfit for food ; indeed, serious effects 
have been known to be suffered by those who have 
eaten the flesh of cattle so treated. 

Good meat, according to Dr. Letheby, has the 
following characteristics : — 

I. It is neither of a pale pink colour nor of a deep 
purple tint ; for the former is a sign of disease, and 
the latter indicates that the animal has not been 
slaughtered, but had died with the blood in it, or had 
suffered from acute fever. 



CHARACTERISTICS OF GOOD MEAT. 33 

2. It lias a marbled appearance, from the ramifica- 
tions of little veins of fat among the muscles. 

3. It should be firm and elastic to the touch, and 
should scarcely moisten the fingers — bad meat being 
wet, and sodden, and flabby, with the fat looking like 
jelly or wet parchment. 

4. It should have little or no odour, and the odour 
should not be disagreeable, for diseased meat has a 
sickly, cadaverous smell, and sometimes a smell of 
physic. This is very apparent when the meat is 
chopi)ed up and drenched with warm water. 

5. It should not liquefy or become ver)- wet on 
standing for a day or so, but should, on the contrary, 
remain dry upon the surface. 

6. When dried at a temperature of 212° or there- 
about, it should not lose more than from seventy to 
seventy-four per cent, of its weight, whereas bad 
meat will often lose as much as eighty per cent. 

7. It should not shrink- or waste much in cooking. 
Salted Meat is objectionable on several grounds. 

Its common use when fresh meat can be obtained is 
therefore undesirable, and it is unsuitable for invalids, 
it is deficient in nutritive value and natural fiavour 
by the extraction of a considerable quantity of the 
juices of the meat. It is deficient in tenderness, and 
therefore to some extent insoluble by the digestive 
secretions. It also acts i^rejudicialiy on the system, 
by the introduction of an excessive quantity of salt 
and saltpetre. 

Brcj and Mutton are the principal fresh meats. 



34 ANIMAL FOOD, 



The former is of a firmer and closer texture than the 
latter, contains more red blood juices, has a fuller and 
richer flavour, containing more iron, is more satisfying 
and more strengthening, but makes greater demands 
upon the digestive powers. Yet it is a common 
article, not only at the ordinary dinner-table, but 
even in the sick-room. In many cases of illness, if 
properly cooked, it may be eaten with impunity, but 
in Enteric fever, and other diseases where the bowels 
are inflamed and tender, it produces, in its ordinary 
form, either as steak or as a cut from a joint, injurious 
effects. Even in the form of beef-tea it often increases 
the irritation, keeps up the fever, and aggravates the 
diarrhoea ; consequently in such cases it should, for 
the most part, be excluded from the diet list. As 
beef requires considerable effort on the part of the 
stomach to convert it into chyme, it is contra-indi- 
cated in acute maladies until convalescence has com- 
menced, when by allowing the patient to extract the 
juice at first, and then swallow a few shreds of the 
meat, daily increasing the amount swallowed, the 
digestive organs will be finally won back to their 
normal condition and capability. Nevertheless, there 
is a form in which beef has been most beneficial. 
Administered in a raw state, when finely divided and 
reduced to a pulp, it is very useful in some derange- 
ments of the stomach. Although not very palatable 
at first, a taste for it is soon acquired. In this form 
it has proved very valuable in Cholera infantum and 
Dysentery, when everything else failed. It should be 



BEEF AND MUTTON. 35 

prepared by scraping with a spoon, and seasoning 
with a little salt. 

Mutton or mutton broth is much to be preferred 
for delicate persons. Mutton broth has less nutritive 
value than the broth of beef, but having a delicate 
flavour it is preferred by many persons. It is, how- 
ever, too rich in fat to be easily digested, unless a 
large portion of that substance be first removed. 
Lean mutton, then, should be selected for making 
broth ; the scrag of the neck is a suitable joint. 
When a patient is so far convalescent as to require 
solids, a mutton chop, properly cooked, is generally 
most suitable. Broiling should be preferred to 
frying, and to cook mutton chops nicely a clear fire is 
absolutely necessar>^ The chops shoukl be sprinkled 
with salt and pepper, and placed over the fire for 
six or seven minutes. They should not be pricked, 
but should be frequently turned to insure their being 
thoroughly cooked. 

Veal and lamb are more gelatinous, less stimu- 
lating, less nutritious, and less easily digested than 
beef and mutton. But the character of the flesh varies 
very much in delicacy, nutritive value, and digesti- 
bility, according to the mode in which the animal has 
been killed. Veal broth is generally prepared from 
the fleshy part of the knuckle. It is not very pala- 
table ; and as it docs not contain the nutritious quali- 
ties of beef-tea or mutton broth, it is scarcely advisable 
to introduce it into the sick-room, except for the sake 
of occasional variety. The lean of a lamb chop cut 



ANIMAL FOOD. 



from the loin is often a morsel which tempts the 
flagging appetite. 

Fork, on account of its fatness, is not so easy of 
digestion as other meats. Bacon and ham, however, 
do not so easily disagree with the stomach ; and in 
this respect they occupy an exceptional position in 
relation to fat meats and cured meats. Fat bacon, 
taken with any substances that arc rich in nitrogen, 
is very nourishing. It increases the nutritive value of 
eggs, poultry, peas, and beans. All pork should be 
most thoroughly cooked, because it is more frequently 
diseased than any other kind of meat, and the disease, 
being due to the presence of parasites, is particularly 
injurious to man. Sucking pig is a great delicacy, 
but of small nutritive value, and unsuitable for 
invalids. 

Venison is lean, dark-coloured, and savoury, having 
more the character of game than of butcher's meat. 
It is very easily digested, and is therefore suitable to 
the dyspeptic and convalescent ; its rich flavour may, 
however, constitute an objection to it, and if it has 
been kept too long before being cooked, it is very apt 
to produce diarrhoea. 

Gelatine, which forms the basis of soup, is the 
nitrogenous principle of bones. They contain a con- 
siderable quantity of nutritive matter ; but for its 
extraction they should be broken into small pieces and 
boiled for m.any hours, if possible in a " digester." 
Although investigators have found that gelatine fails 
to nourish animals when given by itself, it is now a 



GELATINE. 37 



well-established fact that in combination with other 
substances it can be turned to account in the system 
as a force-producing element, thus acting as a protein 
compound. In the form of jelly, with or without 
wine, when not tough, it is readily digested, and 
serves to allay the feeling of emptiness and hunger 
when more nutritious food cannot be well taken. 
Being demulcent, and possessing no irritating quali 
ties, it proves very useful in inflammatory affections 
of the bowels. As it is soothing and grateful it may 
be allowed where diarrhoea is not to be feared. In 
the preparation of gelatine jelly it is very essential to 
soak the gelatine, as procured in the shops, in cold 
water for some time. 

Liver of the calf, lamb, or pig, when fried, is rich 
and savoury, but is not suitable for those whose diges- 
tive powers are feeble. Kidney, iungs, and heart are 
as nutritious as lean meat, but are also unsuitable for 
invalids. Tripe, when gently boiled for about an hour, 
is a food of somewhat delicate and agreeable flavour, 
and of very easy mastication and digestion, but from 
its fatness is rather rich. The ease and rapidity with 
which it is digested, and the considerable nutriment 
which it affords, seem to render it most suitable for 
the sick, but in practice it is found that the absence 
of decided flavour, its unsatisfying character, and the 
unusual nature of the food prevent its selection by 
the sick generally. Sweetbread is easily digested, and 
when simply cooked is not unsuitable for the conva- 
lescent, but when richly cooked will disagree with the 



38 ANIMAL FOOD. 



dyspeptic and invalid. The head of the ox or sheep, 
boiled for eight or nine hours to extract the nutri- 
ment, makes excellent soup. Ox-tails are commonly 
employed for the same purpose. The tongue of all 
animals, especially of the ox, is a great delicacy, but, 
from its being fat and eaten salted, is not adapted to 
weak stomachs. Sheefs trotters, as a bridge from 
soup to meat, are excellent when well boiled. Sheefs 
brains are highly commended as a means of conveying 
phosphates. 

Preserved Meat is not so nourishing as the same 
amount of properly cooked fresh meat, on account of 
the over-cooking demanded by the process. It has the 
recommendation, however, of being much cheaper 
than fresh meat. It may be rendered more palatable 
by being minced and Avarmed or stewed with vege- 
tables, but to prevent further loss of nutritive proper- 
ties it is best eaten cold. 

Extract of Meat should consist of the concentrated 
essence of the juice of flesh, but a good deal that is 
sold as such is solidified soup, with the addition of 
gelatine. Good extract is slightly acid, of a pale 
yellowish-brown colour, with an agreeable meat-hke 
odour. It should be perfectly soluble in cold water, 
and should not contain albumen, fat, or gelatine. It 
possesses more the character of a lightly stimulating 
than of a nutritious food. It is deficient in albumen, 
and, as in the case of soup and beef-tea, its nutritive 
power must be assisted by vegetables and other sub- 
stances which are rich in nitrogenous matter. Biscuits 



BIRDS. 39 

are now made combining the extract with a proper 
proportion of flour. The extract may often prove a 
fair temporary substitute for beef-tea when there is 
neither time nor convenience to make the latter, but it 
must not supersede it in the sick-room. When taken 
during fatigue, it has been found to be remarkably 
restorative, increasing the power of the heart, and 
removing the sense of fatigue following exertion. 
Mixed with wine, Dr. Parkes states it has been em- 
ployed with great success in rousing men in collapse 
from wounds. It was the means of saving the lives of 
many wounded men in the Austrian army in 1859, 
and in the war between the Northern and Southern 
States of America. It would, therefore, be useful 
after surgical operations. 

Birds occupy an important place among the sources 
of food, especially in the diet of the sick-room. Their 
flesh consists of delicate muscular tissue, without any 
admixture of fat, being in some cases white, in others 
dark-coloured. The juices are deficient in red blood, 
and have a more delicate flavour than those of adult 
animals. One can truly aflirm that there is no bird, 
or part of a bird, which may not be eaten with safety 
by man. 

Poultry, such as fowl, turkey, and guinea-fowl, are 
white-fleshed, have a delicate flavour, and are tender 
and easily digested. As their flesh is milder and less 
stimulating than that of ordinary meat, it is well 
adapted to those whose powers of digestion are en- 
feebled. But they are not very nourishing ; they 



40 ANIMAL FOOD. 



contain too little fat, and need pork or bacon to sup- 
plement this deficiency. Sexless birds, as the capon 
and pullet, grow larger, fatten better, and are more 
tender and delicate than ordinary poultry. Ducks diXi^. 
geese are not so well adapted as poultry for the sick 
room, for their flesh is harder, richer, and more highly 
flavoured. 

Gam^e.— pheasant, partridge, grouse, woodcock, snipe, 
and quail — has a delicate flavour, which improves by 
keeping (fuller and stronger than that of domesticated 
birds), is strengthening, tender, and easily digested. 
It is thus tempting to the appetite, and is well 
adapted to a weak stomach. It therefore forms a 
valuable diet for the sick-room, and can be taken 
when flesh meat and poultry are rejected. But the 
darker flesh of game requires culinary management to 
render it digestible. 

Wild-foul, with its close, firm flesh and strong 
flavour, is not adapted for dyspeptics and invalids. 

Pigeon and smaller birds are usually tender and 
relishing, and may be eaten with safety by the con- 
valescent. 

Fish is very valuable as food if eaten as soon as 
possible after capture. There is a prejudice against it 
from the belief that it has no nutritive value, but this 
probably arises from the fact that it does not easily 
satisfy hunger, and is quickly digested, so that the 
appetite soon returns. It is, nevertheless, highly 
nutritious. Fish-eaters, says Dr. Davy, are " especially 
strong, healthy, and prolific. In no other class than 



FISH. 41 

in that of fishers do we see larger families, handsomer 
women, and more robust and active men." Fish, 
especially white fish, is less stimulating than meat, 
contains little fat, is easily digested, and therefore 
forms the most suitable aliment for invalids, dyspeptics, 
and those who suffer from brain-fag. Indeed, in con- 
sequence of the large proportion of nitrogenous matter 
in the composition of fish, abounding as it does in 
brain and nerve-making elements, it is especially 
adapted for all those upon whom there are great 
demands for nervous energ}', and is therefore useful in 
some cases of nervous exhaustion. 

The quality of all fish is superior before spawning- 
time, for it is then "in season;" young fish can 
always be eaten. Fish caught from the deep seas are 
better than those from shallow bays. Fresh-water fish 
from deep, clear water, with a stony bottom, are better 
than those from muddy shallows. " What herring," 
says Dr. Davy, "is equal to that of Loch Fyne? — 
what haddock equal to that of the Bay of Dublin ? 
Of fresh-water fish, what a contrast there is between 
the lake trout and the brook trout ! — the one well-fed, 
well-flavoured, of the colour of salmon ; the other 
small, colourless, and insipid. \\'hat a contrast between 
either of these and the trout of bog water ! the latter 
black, soft, ill-formed, and ill-tasted. What a con- 
trast, again, between the trout inhabiting a stream in 
a fertile limestone district fed by springs, fluctuating 
little, and the indwellers of the mountain stream of a 
primitive country, subject to great fluctuations— one 



42 ANIMAL FOOD. 



day a raging torrent, in a brief space run out and all 
but dried up ! As with other animals, whether beast 
or bird, domestic or wild, much, we know, as to their 
quality, depends on their feed, its kind and quantity ; 
and so with fish." 

A sign of the freshness of fish is its firmness and 
rigidity. This is due to the rigor viortis, which passes 
off after a while. For the invalid it should always 
be boiled or broiled in oil ; the fat added in frying 
renders the fish less digestible Dried, salted, smoked, 
or pickled fish should not be seen in the sick-room. 
A little fresh fish, well boiled, served with bread and 
butter, without sauces and seasonings, may frequently 
tempt the fastidious, dainty appetite. 

Salmon stands pre-eminent as a delicacy, and more 
nearly resembles the meat of animals than that of 
other fish ; fat is intermixed with the muscular fibre, and 
underlies the skin, particularly of the abdomen ; it is 
therefore rich — too rich for invalids ; otherwise the 
nutritive value of its flesh to those who can take it 
differs but little from that of the red-blood flesh of 
other animals. 

Maekerel, Herring, Pilehard, Sprat, and Eel arc also 
fatty in their composition, and therefore less suitable 
than white fish for those whose powers of digestion 
are feeble. Amongst white fish are Haddock, Whiting, 
Sole, Flounder, Cod, Tiirbot, Brill, etc., whose flesh 
contains little fat, except in the liver. Whiting, the 
chicken offish, is the most delicate and easy of diges- 
tion. Sole possesses the same excellence, and deserves 



SHELL-FISH. 43 



its popularity in the sick-room. Haddock is firmer, 
not so delicate, nor so digestible. Flounder is taste- 
less, but also harmless. Cod is close, firm, tough, 
and indigestible for a weak stomach. Fried Cod is 
like veal cutlet, but drier. Turbot has richer flavour, 
but does not stand high as food for invalids. Brill, 
though inferior in flavour, is safer as food ; the skin 
of both, when boiled, appears to be gelatinous, but, 
though preferable as a delicacy for the healthy, is not 
suitable for the weak. The most delicate of all fish 
is probably the Whitebait, except it be rivalled by the 
fresh Smelt ; but the accessories of a whitebait dinner 
are scarcely suitable for invalids. 

Fish-broth contains nearly the same component 
parts as meat-broth, and in some countries fish-soups 
are as much esteemed as those of meat. 

Isifiglass, which is obtained from the air-bladder of 
tlic sturgeon, is a useful vehicle for the administration 
of other ingredients of food, surpassing gelatine in 
value. 

Shell-fish, with the exception of oysters, are less 
nutritive than other kinds of fish, less digestible, and 
more likely to disagree with weak stomachs than most 
kinds of animal food. In some persons they produce 
gastric irritation and diarrhoea, and in others nettle- 
rash and similar eruptions. Indeed, so marked is this 
effect on some constitutions, that it is necessary to 
forbid shell-fish altogether. 

Lobster and Crab, though very agreeable to many 
persons, arc not suitable for those whose digestive 



44 ANIMAL FOOD. 



organs are weak, and consequently should not be 
introduced into the sick-room. Indeed, some persons 
in ordinary health cannot take them, because they 
are not easily digested, even when stimulants of the 
gastric juice are added in the form of vinegar and 
pepper. 

Praivns and Shrimps belong to the same family as 
the lobster, and are somewhat more readily digested, 
but they are not suitable for invalids. 

Tiirtk-soiip is a rich food, and, in small quantities 
at a time, is often very restorative to invalids. 

Oysters are nutritious, and readily digested even by 
delicate stomachs. From recent researches it ap- 
pears that they contain suflicient pepsine to be self- 
digestive. By invalids they should be taken without 
the fringe or beard (gills), and without the hard 
muscle by which the fish is attached to the shell; they 
should also be taken ratu, and masticated before they 
are swallowed. To eat them with vinegar is to 
commit a dietetic mistake. It is a good plan to keep 
them alive for a day or two by placing them in a 
shallow dish of clear brine, feeding them with meal 
and changing the water, so that they may lie bare for 
a while, and then be washed again twice a day, in 
imitation of the tide. They should only be eaten 
from September to May. As a means of conveying 
phosphates they are invaluable. 

Fresh oysters are most grateful in chronic dyspepsia, 
where nausea is present, in the case of consumptives, 
for the trouble of morning sickness, in chronic 



OYSTERS— RABBIT— HARE— EGGS. 45 

diarrhoea ; they can be eaten with advantage by the 
nursing mother, who will in this way not only 
strengthen her own system, but also that of the child 
at her breast. Convalescents from fever will find in 
the oyster a delicate and nourishing food. 

Oyster-stcWy prepared plain or with milk, or oyster 
essence made by slowly simmering oysters in their 
liquor or a little water until they swell, seasoning with 
salt, straining the licjuor, and serving with dry toast or 
plain biscuits, arc excellent methods of giving oysters. 

Mussels and all other shell-fish, except oysters, are 
not suitable for invalids. 

The flesh of Rabbit has some resemblance in general 
and nutritive character to that of poultry. It is some- 
what loose in texture, without decided flavour, and is 
digested with ease. It may be eaten by the conva- 
lescent with due caution against the unsuitable acces- 
sory of onion sauce. 

The flesh of the Hare is of harder texture, of fuller 
flavour, and more stimulating nature than that of the 
rabbit. It is most nutritious ; but as it is not very 
easily digested, it is a food for the healthy rather than 
for the sick. 

Eggs, if the shell be included, contain everything 
that is necessary for the formation and maintenance 
of the body. This food does not, however, exist, as 
in milk, in a state of perfect solution, but in a semi- 
litjuid form ; consequently some digestion is necessary 
before it can be assimilated. The white of the egg 
consists chiefly of albumen, without fat, and in a 



46 ANIMAL FOOD. 



condition which admits of easy absorption, the ease 
being increased if it be shaken or beaten up with 
water. The yolk contains all the fat of the egg, held 
in suspension by some portion of albumen, and is 
therefore richer than the white. Raw and lightly 
boiled eggs are readily digested. It has been found 
that the yolk is more digestible when hard-boiled, 
while the white is least so. If the albumen be co- 
agulated by the heat of cooking it becomes heavy 
and difficult of digestion, and sometimes produces 
constipation and irritation of the bowels. It should 
therefore be particularly avoided by dyspeptics, and 
by persons recovering from illness, before the full 
powers of digestion have been regained. If the 
insoluble portions of hard-boiled eggs are delayed in 
the stomach and intestines, they putrify, and the 
sulphuretted hydrogen and ammonia evolved become 
irritating to the intestinal canal. But fresh uncooked 
eggs are almost wholly free from these objec- 
tions. A fresh raw egg, thoroughly stirred into 
about half a pint of milk, forais, to most persons, a 
palatable and nourishing article of diet. One great 
advantage this preparation has over other food is that 
all the component parts are retained in their natural 
state, are more completely dissolved, and consequently 
make less demands upon weak digestive powers, than 
when the egg is eaten in its solidified form. If 
patients object to the taste of raw eggs, a little sugar 
may be added ; or if this be not sufficient, some simple 
flavouring extract may be used, Wipe or spirits ar^ 



EGGS. 47 

often employed, but they are usually objectionable, 
and should be dispensed with if possible. 

Eggs seem to be particularly useful in lung diseases, 
and in cases of exhaustive cough soothe the irritable 
mucous membrane. 

Artificial fibrin^ so called, has'^been found available 
when no other food could be taken. It is thus pre- 
pared : — The white of an egg is poured into cold 
water and allowed to remain for twelve or more 
hours, during which time it undergoes a chemical 
change, becoming solid and insoluble, assuming an 
opaque, snow-white appearance. This and the liquid 
in which it is immersed are heated to the boiling- 
point, and tlie fibrin is ready for use. It is very easy 
to digest, and to many is quite a delicacy. It is said 
that the stomach will retain this in many cases when 
everything else is promptly rejected, its presence 
creating a craving for more food, and thus promoting 
instead of diminishing digestion. 

Egg, with milk and sugar, forms a plain custard, 
which is often allowable and very grateful. 

Eggs undergo change by being kept. The porous 
shell allows the evaporation of water and the in- 
filtration of air ; certain organic changes also occur 
when the shell is rendered non-porous. To test the 
freshness of an egg an ounce of salt may be added 
to ten ounces or half a pint of water ; in this solution 
a fresh egg will just sink, one that has been kept for 
several days will float. A bad egg is often suffi- 
ciently light to float in pure water. Fresh eggs may 



48 ANIMAL FOOD. 



also be known by holding them up to the hght, when 
they will appear clear ; if stale they will appear 
cloudy. Fresh eggs are most translucent in the 
centre, stale ones at the end. In order to preserve 
the freshness of eggs various plans have been adopted 
to render the shells non-porous or to exclude air ; 
such as boiling them for half a minute, keeping them 
in lime water, bran or salt, or covering them with a 
coating of wax, oil, butter, gum, or varnish ; but 
with only variable success. No fusty egg is good for 
food, even when put into puddings ; it should be 
banished from the house if there be the slightest smell 
of old straw about it. 

Ducks' eggs are larger and have a stronger flavour 
than hens' eggs ; the solid matter and the oil in a 
duck's egg exceeds that of a hen's by as much as 
one-fourth. They are not often introduced into 
the sick-room, but there is no reason why tliey 
should be excluded if the flavour be agreeable to 
the patient. 

IVIiLK. — Pure milk contains in solution, like eggs, 
all the elements required for the growth and sus- 
tenance of the body. This is especially true in 
relation to a child. Indeed, it may be regarded as 
the typical alimentary substance, for it combines 
nitrogenous, fatty saccharine, and mineral matters, 
and water, in such proportions as are required by the 
animal economy, and in such a state of mixture and 
liquefaction as to be easily assimilated. In fact, it 
requires no digestion, and it is this excellence 



MILK. 49 

which renders milk a most important and convenient 
article under many circumstances. It is already 
digested and prepared for absorption. In cases of 
fever, pure milk as the main article of diet is far 
superior to anything else, especially in Enteric and 
other fevers inducing disturbance of the stomach 
and bowels. Beef-tea, which is commonly used, 
is often irritating ; but milk, on the contrary, is 
soothing, cooling, and af the same time nourishing 
and strengthening. In chronic disorders of the 
stomach and bowels a milk diet is a most valuable 
accessory to medical treatment. It allows the 
stomach to have almost absolute rest, which in many 
cases is all that is required. And this quiescent 
condition can be prolonged almost indefinitely, since 
an adult can be sustained for days or even weeks on 
milk alone. It should, however, be observed that 
milk would not be suitable diet for adults in health, 
as the nitrogenous matter is in considerable excess 
in relation to the carbonaceous. It is suited to young 
persons who have to grow, and who in order to 
grow must appropriate an excess of what is nitro- 
genous to form a daily addition to the body. On the 
other hand, it is not so suitable for full-grown 
persons, who have not so much to form tissue as to 
develop heat or other force by the combustion of 
carbon. 

It must not be overlooked that the several elements 
or constituents of milk vary in quantity and pro- 
portion in different animals, and under different cir- 



50 ANIMAL FOOD. 



cumstances in the same animal. Variations are 
exhibited in the following table, which should be 
regarded as showing average rather than actual 
proportions, inasmuch as the milk of each animal is 
not uniform : — 







Woman. 


Cow. 


Goat. 


Sheep. 


Aes. 


Mare. 


Nitrogenous 
matter and in- 
soluble salts 


) 


3'3S 


4'5.S 


4-50 


7 '00 


1-70 


1-62 


Butter.. 




3'34 


3'7o 


410 


6 -50 


1-40 


0-20 


Lactine and solu- 
ble salts 


■I 
i 


3"77 


5'33 


5 'So 


4-50 


6-40 


8-75 


Water.. 




89-54 


86-40 


85-60 


82-00 


90-50 


89-43 



100 -00 lOO'OO lOO-QO lOO'OO 100 00 lOQ-QO 



The " nitrogenous matter " is chiefly caseine, which 
forms curd and cheese ; the " lactine " is a form of 
sugar. 

Woman's milk is, of course, the standard. Cow's 
milk more nearly approximates to it than that of any 
other animal, and hence is most generally used. 
Cow's milk contains considerably more casein, less 
sugar, and a little more butter than woman's milk ; 
consequently when the former is substituted for the 
latter it should be largely diluted with water and 
receive a little sugar. Goat's milk is richer than 
cow's ; sheep's milk still richer. Ass's or mare's milk 
is much poorer, but much sweeter. Indeed, so large 
is the proportion of sugar of milk in the last that it is 
fermented and converted into a spirituous liquor. 



VARIATIONS IN MIIK. SI 

known by the name of koumiss, and successfully 
administered in many cases of Consumption, chronic 
Bronchitis, and chronic Diarrhoea. 

Cow's milk varies very much in quality. After 
parturition takes place in any animal the first fluid 
secreted differs considerably from ordinary milk, and 
is termed colostrum ; consequently cow's milk, for three 
or four weeks after calving, is not fit for food ; it has 
a somewhat sickly smell, and acts as a purgative. 

The milk of the Alderney cow is characterised by 
its richness in butter, that of the long-horns by its 
richness in caseine. The product of young cows is 
preferable to that of old ones, and as a food for infants 
the age of the secretion should be less than that 
of the baby ; that is to say a cow with a calf two 
months old may do very well to feed a child of four 
months. The milk first drawn from the cow con- 
tains less cream than that which is last drawn ; indeed 
(especially if some time Has elapsed between the time 
of milking), the amount of cream in the latter may be 
two or three times as much as in the former. The 
milk of the afternoon is richer both in caseine and 
butter than that of the morning. The food on which 
the cow is fed considerably affects the quality of the 
milk ; poor diet impoverishes it ; strong vegetables, 
such as turnips, cabbages, and onions, flavour it ; 
decayed leaves make it disagreeable ; poisonous plants 
render it injurious ; nothing is equal to the fresh 
pasture of country fields for securing good milk. 

Its quality may be tested by the amount of crtam 



52 ANIMAL FOOD. 

it produces, by its weight, and by its specific gravity. 
The larger the proportion of cream, the better the 
milk. A quart of new milk, cooled, should weigh 
about 2 lb. 2\ oz. if it is of fair average quality. The 
sp. gr. of good genuine milk ranges from i'02 6 to 
I -030 at a temperature of 60°. The addition of water 
or an excess of cream lowers the sp. gr. But whether 
or not the milk be diluted with water, it is not 
unfrequently rendered unwholesome by being put 
into vessels that have not been cleansed by thorough 
washing out with soda. On stale milk, even in 
minute quantities, a small blue fungus, or mould, 
very speedily forms, which soon spreads to fresh milk 
and causes it to turn sour ; hence Colic, Diarrhoea, 
and Thrush are occasioned in those v\-ho partake of it. 

Fifteen grains of bicarbonate of soda to a quart of 
milk prevents it from turning sour, and also renders 
it more digestible. 

Milk, though nourishing, does not agree with every 
one. If diluted with one-third lime-water, it will 
rarely cause biliousness or indigestion, and if taken 
regularly will so strengthen the system as to banish 
these disorders. It may be taken with acid of some 
kind when it does not easily digest. The idea that 
milk must not be eaten with pickles is not an intel- 
ligent one, as milk curdles as soon as it is swallowed. 
When milk is constipating a little salt sprinkled in 
each glassful will avert the difficulty. When it has an 
opposite effect, a few drops of brandy in each tum- 
bler of milk will obviate purgation. It is a mistake 



CREAM— SKIM-MILK. 53 



to drink milk between meals or with other food. In 
the former case it will destroy the appetite, in the 
latter it is not proper to drink anything. After 
finishing a meal a tumbler of pure milk may be drunk, 
and half a pint taken at bedtime with a biscuit makes 
a light supper. In cases of fever, in exhausted con- 
ditions dependent on loss of blood, and in summer 
diarrhoea and other inflammatory affections of the 
alimentary tract, it may be given scalded with excel- 
lent results ; it is a sheet-anchor in Enteric fever. 
Owing to outbreaks of fever which were traced to 
infected milk, many persons adopted the precaution 
of boiling all milk before using it, and thus the 
disease-germs which it may have contained were 
rendered innocuous. This is a good plan for persons 
resident in towns. But when used as a substitute for 
mother's milk, cow's milk should not be boiled, but 
only raised to the temperature of breast milk by the 
addition of warm water. ' 

Cream is composed of the fatty constituent of milk, 
which, on account of its lightness, rises to the surface 
when the milk is allowed to stand. It forms the basis 
of butter. It can often be taken freely when nothing 
else will remain on the stomach, notwithstanding the 
abundance of fatty matter. It should always be fresh, 
and may be diluted with water or given pure if desired. 
Clotted cream is i)roduced by heating milk just to the 
point of simmering, which causes a scum to form with 
the fatty matter and give it more consistence. 

Skim-milk is that from whi( h the cream has been 



54 ANIMAL FOOD. 



removed, and being consequently less rich than 
ordinary milk, it can frequently be taken by invalids 
when the latter cannot. 

Butter-milk is what is left after the extraction ot 
butter. It of course contains less fatty matter than 
skim-milk, but it retains the nitrogenous, saccharine, 
and saline matter, and is therefore very nourishing 
and useful as an article of diet. Unless very fresh it 
is generally a little acid. It is one of the most refresh- 
ing summer drinks that can be taken, and is almost 
always allowable in sickness, especially in fevers with 
gastric symptoms. It appears to produce a gentle 
activity of the liver and kidneys, particularly of the 
latter organs. 

Curds are the caseine and fat of milk combined by 
coagulation of the milk. They form the basis of 
cheese. The addition of an acid to the milk sets free 
the caseine which is held in solution by an alkali, and 
causes coagulation. 

Whey is the residuary liquid after the curd has 
been removed, containing a little of the caseine and 
fat, but all the sugar and salts of milk. The caseine 
and fat being absent, there is no fear of curdling in 
the stomach, and thus causing pain or Diarrhoea. 
Whey can, therefore, be taken by many persons with 
whom milk disagrees. It is not very valuable as nutri- 
ment, but it is very digestible, is easily absorbed, and 
is a refreshing drink in the sick-room, especially in 
inflammatory disorders. A slight flavour of nutmeg 
makes it very palatable. There is a prevailing 



CONDENSED MILK— KOUMISS. 55 

opinion that whey is sudorific ; hence wine-whey, 
alum-whey, tamarind-whey, etc., when the milk has 
been curdled by these substances, are recommended. 
The method of preparation is given in a succeeding 
chapter. 

In Switzerland whey is supposed to have medicinal 
virtues, particularly for the relief of chronic disorders 
of the abdominal organs ; the treatment which is 
known as the Molkcn-kur has a fashionable reputation. 

Condensed Milk is milk preserved by the evapora- 
tion of a large proportion of its water, and the addition 
of cane sugar. It is sold in hermetically-sealed tins, 
in which it can be kept for several years ; when the 
tins are opened it is found in the form of syrup, which 
will remain good for several days. It is very useful 
for the diet of invalids in the making of light pud- 
dings, or other food into which milk largely enters. 
It requires the addition of a considerable quantity of 
soft water (three parts -water to one part milk) to 
replace what has been evaporated. Being already 
sweetened, it needs no addition of sugar. Its sweet 
ness renders it very agreeable to infants, who take 
it readily, grow plump, and apparently thrive well 
upon it. 

Koitfniss, which is fermented mare's or cow's milk, 
has been found very useful in some cases of consump- 
tion. The Russian plan of making it is as follows : — 
Two teacupfuls of wheat-flour are mixed with one 
spoonful of honey, one of good beer yeast, and suffi- 
cient milk to form a not too thin paste ; the whole is 



S6 ANIMAL FOOD. 

put in a moderately warm place to ferment. When 
fermentation takes place the ferment is put in a 
linen bag, and hung in a jar or keg containing sixteen 
pounds of fresh mare's milk, covered and allowed to 
stand till the milk has acquired a pleasant, acidulous 
taste (about i6 to 24 hours, according to the tempe- 
rature). The butter and cheese particles which float 
about are now skimmed off, the liquid is poured into 
another keg and shaken for one hour, after which 
time it is poured into bottles, corked, and put into the 
cellar. A "cure" requires twelve to fifteen pounds of 
milk daily, the produce of two mares ; the best season 
for it is from May to July. The koumiss is taken 
early in the morning, every hour (a teacupful to a 
tumblerful at a time), and plenty of exercise must 
follow. 

Butter is the fatty portion of milk, obtained by 
churning the cream or the entire milk. This opera- 
tion causes the rupture of the envelopes of the fat 
globules, which then coalesce and become incorpo- 
rated into a solid mass. Milk yields on an average 
5^ per cent, of butter. Though butter is generally 
churned from cream, it would be produced in greater 
quantity from entire milk ; but as the substitution of 
milk would necessitate more labour and the use of 
larger vessels, it has not been generally adopted. The 
churning of cream is best performed at a temperature 
varying from 50° to 55', and the temperature is gene- 
rally regulated by placing hot or cold water according 
to the season in the outer vessel. Milk requires a 



BUTTER. 57 

temperature of 60°. When the butter is formed it 
should be kneaded and washed with water to remove 
the caseine, fatty acids, and other ingredients which 
would prevent its keeping sweet and fresh. Salt is 
added to preserve it. If syrup be added instead of 
salt, or sugar with which is mixed a little salt, butter 
is said to keep better. The exclusion of air also pre- 
serves it, and simply covering it with water renewed 
every day will keep it fresh for a week. But a better 
plan is that of M. Br^on, who adds water slightly 
acidulated with acetic or tartaric acid, and places the 
whole in a closely-fitting vessel. 

When pure and fresh, butter is more easily as- 
similated by delicate stomachs than most other 
fats. It is also the form of separate fat v/hich is less 
frequently disliked by consumptive people and 
invalids generally ; but it should not be too bounti- 
fully supplied. Butter that has become stale or 
rancid, or been exposed to heat (as for buttered toast), 
is very likely ^to disagree with dyspeptics and other 
invalids, and cause Diarrhoea. Indeed, as a rule, all 
kinds of decomposing fats disagree with the stomach. 
There are ready means of detection through the 
senses of sight, taste, and smell, when butter is 
adulterated. Pure butter should be of a uniform 
rich yellow appearance ; when a streaky look is 
imparted by quickly passing over it a clean knife the 
presence of adulterants is always to be suspected. 
When melted it should yield a clear-looking oil, with 
but slight deposit of water or other substances. 

£ 



58 ANIMAL FOOD. 



When placed on the tongue it mehs quickly and 
leaves the tongue perfectly smootli ; while, on the 
contrary, there will be a sense of roughness, a granular 
taste, and the peculiar flavour of the adulterant, as the 
results of this test when butter is adulterated. The 
odour of butter is very persistent, and therefore does 
not so well mark its purity or the reverse. 

Cheese is the nitrogenous portion (caseine) of milk, 
with a proportion of fatty matter, obtained by 
coagulation into curd by means of rennet or vinegar. 
The curd is subjected to pressure in a mould of the 
future form of the cheese in order to remove the 
whey. When sufficient consistence has been secured 
the cheese is exposed in a cool, airy situation to dry 
and ripen. During this process both caseine and 
butter undergo change, volatile flitty acids are 
produced, flavour is developed, and in some cases 
fungi are formed. The rich and soft quality of the 
cheese depends on the amount of fatty matter in the 
milk from which the cheese is made : the richer 
cheeses are formed by the addition of an extra 
quantity of cream ; the poorer cheeses are made 
from skim-milk. Poor close cheeses keep the best. 

As cheese is rich in nitrogenous matter, it stands 
very high in the scale of nutritious food ; one pound 
being equivalent to three and a half pounds of lean 
beef. Taken with bread or other vegetable diet it 
is very nutritive to persons of active habits. As a 
relish or condiment it stimulates digestion. But on 
the whole it is not very digestible, and therefore 



CHEESE. 59 

not suitable for persons of sedentary habits, or for 
invalids, especially at bedtime. The close poor cheeses 
are less easily assimilated than the soft, friable, and 
strongly flavoured, but they may be rendered whole- 
some by being cut in very thin slices and buttered. 
Toasted cheese is also digestible by a healthy stomach, 
if it is new and lightly cooked with cream and butter ; 
but as ordinarily prepared, it is one of the most 
indigestible articles that can be eaten. 

Cream cheese is fresh curd moderately pressed ; it 
must be eaten fresh, as it will not bear keeping long. 
It is more digestible than ordinary cheese, because 
it is softer and may be readily masticated, and because 
it has a less proportion of caseine. To many invalids 
it will prove a pleasant variation with other diet. 

Lard, which is derived from the loose fat of the 
pig, is a very pure fat ; but it is so tasteless as to 
be seldgm eaten except in pastry, or as the medium 
in which substances may be fried. 

Dripping, derived from roasting joints, if not 
burnt, is one of the most nutritious forms of fat and 
very agreeable. Its flavour depends on the degree 
to which the flesh is roasted. It may sometimes 
prove a welcome alternative to butter in the sick- 
room. Salt should be eaten with it. But it must be 
taken in moderation, and its action watched, or it 
will disorder the stomach and heighten fever. 



6o VEGETABLE FOOD. 



CHAPTER IV. 

VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Vegetable products enter largely into the food of 
man. Even the more common articles of food in 
this class present considerable variety. They are 
consumed in the form of seeds, roots, leaves, herbs, 
and preparations of different kinds. 

Farinaceous seeds form the largest portion of our 
vegetable food, and are the most extensively used ; 
they are of great nutritive value, of easy digestion, 
plentifully yielded, and universally grown. 

Cereals hold the first place. The general compo- 
sition of all of them is very similar, but on account of 
the differences that exist in the proportions of their 
component elements they have different nutritive 
values. Even the various kinds of wheat are not 
exactly alike, especially in the relative proportions 
of nitrogenous matter and starch. On an average, 
wheat contains more nitrogenous matter than other 
grains. Oats come nearest to wheat in this respect, 
and are of equal value to many wheats ; they also 
contain a large proportion of fats and salts. Maize 
is rich in fatty matter, moderately so in nitrogenous, 
but poor in salts. Rice is very rich in starch, but 
poor in other constituents. 

The constituents of IV/ieat more nearly correspond 
with the requirements of the human system under 
ordinary circumstances than any other grain ; and 



WHEAT. 6 1 

life and health can be maintained on wheat alone for 
an indefinite period, provided there be an adequate 
supply of good water and air. Hence it is one of 
the most widely cultivated of the cereals. 

As it is ordinarily used, however, it is deprived of 
much of its nutritive value, for the portion which 
contains the largest amount of nitrogenous matter is 
removed in order to meet the demand for whiteness 
in the bread. Each grain, after being thrashed out of 
the straw and winnowed from the husks, is composed 
of a hard, thin outer coat, or bran, a soft, friable 
intermediate layer of cells, and a central white sub- 
stance chiefly composed of starch. The outer coat is 
woody, indigestible, useless for nutrition, and irritating 
to the alimentary canal. In some cases it may there- 
fore be advisable to retain it to act mechanically to 
stimulate the action of the intestines in constipation ; 
but when used by persons who take active exercise it 
is too stimulating, for it causes the food to pass hur- 
riedly through the canal before the process of disinte- 
gration and assimilation is completed. For invalids, 
and persons whose digestive organs are in a state of 
susceptibility, it is too irritating. The inner coat is of 
most value. It is usually removed with the outer coat 
in dressing the flour. But it is the richest part of the 
grain in nitrogenous matter, fats, and salts, the part 
which contains food for muscles, bones, and brains ; 
and the more thoroughly this is removed, the finer 
the flour is dressed, the whiter the bread produced, 
the less valuable is the bread for nutrition. The 



62 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

central white material of the grain is chiefly composed 
of starch, but it comprises also a proportion of the 
more nourishing elements, though the proportion is 
so small that the utility of tlie grain is sacrificed to 
the appearance of the bread. Many writers — notably 
Liebig — have pointed out the waste of nutritive mate- 
rial, and the unwisdom of preferring white bread to 
that which contains the nitrogenous portion. Pavy, 
however, reminds us tliat bread is not our only food ; 
that what is rejected in the bread is taken in other 
forms ; and that through animal diet we receive the 
very elements which have been eliminated from the 
flour. Certainly to most persons the white bread is 
more palatable, and presents a more pleasing appear- 
ance, than the more nutritious bread, but the taste is 
probably a matter of habit. If it were not that it gave- 
a dark colour and a soft consistence to bread, a very 
important soluble nitrogenous matter called ccrealine 
might be utilised by soaking the bran in warm water 
for some time, and using the water in the prepa- 
ration of the dough for bread. It would be better 
to sacrifice the appearance and cultivate another 
taste, if thereby more nutriment could be obtained. 
Young and growing children are great but uncon- 
scious sufferers from the common custom. Many are 
weak from malnutrition, grow up with defective teeth 
and bones, weak tissues, inadequate muscular develop- 
ment, and are susceptible to diseases which they have 
not constitutional strength enough to combat and 
resist. 



BREAD. 63 

Bread made 7vith sea water is said to increase the 
appetite and stimulate digestion. It is pleasant to 
eat, and exercises a beneficial influence in Dyspepsia, 
Phthisis, and Scrofula. It has also been found con- 
ducive to health on board shij) during long voyages. 

Stale bread is preferable to new, especially where 
there is any weakness of the digestive organs, for the 
softness of new bread renders it less easy of mastica- 
tion and insalivation, more clammy and cohesive, and 
therefore less penetrable by the gastric juice. In the 
stomach it often ferments afresh, and even in persons 
of good digestion produces heartburn. Stale bread 
is firm and more friable under the action of the teeth, 
and more easily penetrated by the digestive juices, 
than new bread. It is generally the most digestible 
one or two days after it has been baked. The best 
bread grows stale most slowly. 

Aiirated bread, made by forcing pure carbonic acid 
into the dough, keeps better than other kinds, is free 
from remains of yeast, does not induce fermentative 
changes in the stomach, which cause Dyspepsia, 
flatulence, and heartburn, and is more likely to be 
wholesome than ordinary baker's bread. 

Sour bread and mouldy bread arc unwholesome, and 
may produce injurious and even fatal conseiiuenccs. 
As bread is jjoor in fat and salts (when only white 
flour is used), the common practice of eating butter, 
bacon, dripping, or other fat with it is, therefore, 
more than the gratification of 'a taste, it is a phy- 
siological necessity. 



64 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Toasting bread greatly increases its digestibility, 
provided the process be properly carried out. To cut 
the bread into slices so thick that while the sides are 
rendered crisp the interior becomes spongy, and then 
to soak the whole with butter, is to render toast very 
indigestible. The slice should be toasted brown, not 
burnt, so that it may be crisp and firm throughout. 
It then constitutes the best form in which starchy 
food can be given ; for much of the starch is changed 
into glucose by the heat, and in Avheat bread there is 
some little gluten, which partly supplies the place of 
albumen. If toast is buttered, the butter should be 
applied as the toast is eaten, so that it may not 
become soaked with the butter. By some it is much 
enjoyed without butter, and is then more readily 
digested. Toast water, when properly prepared, forms • 
an almost indispensable article in the sick-room. If 
good stale bread or biscuits are nicely toasted, not 
burnt, and then placed in a dish or jug, and hot 
water poured on and allowed to cool, the drink will 
often prove more palatable than water alone. 

Rusks, tops afid bottoms, and pulled bread are 
forms of toast. Rusks are made of flour, butter, 
milk, eggs, and sugar, baked and dried. Pulled bread 
consists of the interior only of a new loaf from which 
the crust is stripped, dried and browned in a quick 
oven, and constitutes a suitable form of bread for 
those whose digestion is weak. 

Biscuits and rusks, on account of having been dried, 
are not likely to become mouldy and unwholesome. 



BISCUITS. 65 

Biscuits have this further recommendation, that as 
they contain little water, they are, bulk for bulk, 
more nutritious than bread, three quarters of a pound 
being about equal to a pound of bread. Those made 
without butter are sometimes not easily digested, 
and patients soon tire of them from lack of variety. 

Wheaten biscuits, either sweet or plain, are made of 
whole wheat finely ground for the purpose, and are 
most suitable for those who suffer from Dyspepsia 
and constipation. They are not cloying and indi- 
gestible, like brown bread new, nor dry and husky, 
like brown bread stale, but are sweet and agreeable 
to the palate. They may be used either at tea and 
breakfast or with meat at dinner, as the consumer 
pleases, and in such quantities as may be requisite. 

Biscuit powder, made from captain's, or ship 
biscuits, which consist of flour and water only, and 
prepared with milk, can be sometimes taken by in- 
vahds who cannot bear solid food. It is also suitable 
for infants. 

Cracknels are light, and easily digested. 

Spofige cakes are also light, and often tempting. 
They may be soaked in hot milk ; as also may rusks 
and cracknels. 

Muffins and Crumpets are very indigestible. 

Gingerbread, when dr)', crisp, and light, is acceptable 
to many dyspeptics. 

Macaroni and Vermicelli are very nutritious, but not 
easily digested on account of the closeness of their 
texture. 



66 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Semolina is made from the inner part of the wheat 
grain, is nourishing and digestible, and is useful for 
puddings, or to thicken soups, broth, or milk. 

Oats^ when ground, form a flour which is not so 
white as wheaten flour, and when made into bread has 
a peculiar taste, half sweet, half bitter. The Scotch 
oatmeal is coarser than the English, and is generally 
preferred for its flavour and for its nutritive qualities. 
On account of the large proportion of fats and salts 
contained in them, oats form a very nutritious food. 
When deprived of their covering, oats are known as 
groats ox grits; Avhen crushed, they are sold as Emden 
groats — the form best adapted for gruel. Groats 
and milk furnish perfect nourishment, even for an 
adult. Oatcake bread in large thin flakes is a com- 
mon article of diet in Scotland, and in some parts of 
the north of England. Porridge is a hasty pudding 
of boiled oatmeal. The oatmeal should be mixed, at 
first very thin, in boiling water or milk ; while boil- 
ing, the meal should be sprinkled slowly on the 
surface and stirred in ; when enough is added, the 
whole should simmer for half an hour or longer, with 
an occasional stir. " If, however, the oatmeal be 
imperfectly boiled, as when prepared in haste, or 
intentionally unboiled, as in Scotch ' brose,' it is 
extremely indigestible, and produces obstinate pyrosis 
and flatulence ; but if well boiled, and eaten slowly 
so as to become thoroughly mixed with saliva, it is 
most wholesome." Gruel is a similar preparation, 
taken in a more liquid form. It should be boiled 



OA TMEAL. 67 

until every particle of the meal is cooked. It may be 
made with milk instead of water, or part water and 
part milk, and is generally better if strained, as the 
straining removes the irritating husks of the grain. 
Gruel appears to have been a favourite morning 
beverage some two hundred years ago, for water 
gruel was advertised as always ready at the Marine 
Coffee-house in Birchin Lane, Cornhill, every morning 
from six to seven o'clock, where as much as four to 
five gallons were drunk daily. This is a more inno- 
cent " pick-me-up " than that which finds favour with 
City men of the present day. 

In the north of Germany oatmeal soup mixed with 
fruit is a favourite dish, the fruit greatly augmenting 
the nutritious value of the oatmeal. In Ireland oat- 
meal is mixed with Indian corn meal, and then stirred 
into boiling water, forming a com|)Ound called stir- 
about ; whey and milk are often used instead of water. 
The mixture should be well boiled to avoid flatulence. 

In Scotland the oatmeal husks (called seeds) are 
sometimes steej;c(l in water for a few days, until they 
become rather sour, like stale brewers' grains. When 
afterwards scjueezed out they produce a liquid which, 
when boiled to the consistence of gruel, or thickened 
with a little oatmeal, makes the food which the Scotch 
call Jluuuucry, or sowaiis, and the Welsh sucan. It is 
usually eaten with milk. If it be boiled still more, 
until it becomes as thick as jelly, it forms what the 
Welsh call budrum, or bnvchan. 

Oatmeal in all its forms is somewhat laxative, and 



68 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

often causes irritation of the bowels, especially if not 
sufficiently cooked. There are some persons who 
cannot take it on account of the acidity and eructa- 
tion which it causes. 

Barley is not so much employed as it used to be in 
the form of bread. When it is made up, some wheaten 
flour is mixed with the meal to make it less compact 
and heavy, more spongy and light. It is, however, 
less palatable than wheaten bread, less digestible, and 
is scarcely suitable for weak and disordered stomachs. 
The best way of using barley flour is to take it in the 
form of gruel or stirabout, made by gradually sprink- 
ling and stirring the meal into boiUng water. The 
nutritive value of barley meal is somewhat inferior to 
that of wheaten flour ; but as the meal is cheaper than 
flour it is more economical to use it : in fact, it is 
almost the cheapest article of diet. 

Scotch barley is the grain deprived of its husks. 
Pearl barley is also the grain deprived of its husks, 
and rounded and polished by attrition. Both are 
employed to give consistence to broth. Patent barley 
is pearl barley ground into flour. Barley u<ater is 
made from pearl barley, and forms a slightly nutritive, 
bland, and demulcent drink for invalids. It is made 
by taking about two ounces of pearl barley which has 
been well washed in cold water, and boiUng it in a 
pint and a half of water for half an hour. 

Malt is barley changed in process of manufacture, 
so that a peculiar active nitrogenous principle, called 
diastase, is developed, which has the power of con- 



BARLEY— RYE— INDIAN CORN. 69 

verting starch into dextrine and sugar. An infusion 
oftnalt is made by boiling four tablespoonfuls of ground 
malt in a pint of water for ten minutes. The liquid 
is poured off, diluted one-half with milk or given 
pure. It is very agreeable and nutritious, and is 
often beneficial in some cases of Cholera infantum, 
when other things are rejected. Malt is one of the 
ingredients in Liebig's Food for Infants. 

Rye is more like wheat than other cereals in its 
fitness for making bread. It was once commonly 
employed in this countr)', and is now used by the 
poorer classes on the Continent, where agriculture is 
in a low condition ; but it is not so nutritious as 
wheaten bread, while its colour and acidity render it 
dista.steful to those who can obtain the flour of wheat. 
It possesses laxative properties. 

Indian Corn, or Maize, is not adapted for the manu- 
facture of bread on account of its deficiency in gluten, 
unless wheat or rye flour be mixed with it. The 
meal is cooked by. either baking it in cakes or by 
stirring it into boiling water or boiling milk as with 
oatmeal, by which a thick porridge is made It is 
thus commonly used in Ireland, with a flavouring of 
salt, butter, or treacle. It is not agreeable to the 
taste of most persons, as it possesses some degree of 
harshness ; this may, however, be removed by the 
application of a weak solution of caustic soda. But 
this treatment renders it less nutritious by the re- 
moval of some portion of the nitrogenous elements. 
Thus prepared, it is sold as corn Jlour, Oswego, and 



70 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

Maizena. The large proportion of fatty matter, never- 
theless, renders it very nutritious. 

Rice is said to be the food of nearly one- third of 
the human race. The best imported into this country 
comes from Carolina and Patna, the former to be 
preferred for puddings, the latter as a vegetable with 
meat, or as a side dish with preserves. It is useful as 
an article of diet, whether whole or ground into flour. 
It, however, requires the addition of some fat to make 
up for its deficiency in this ingredient. It should be 
thoroughly cooked, whether the grains be ground 
or remain whole. In India rice is never prepared 
alone, but always with the addition of a certain pulse 
which abounds in albuminates ; ghee (butter clarified 
by boiling) is also largely consumed with it. Boiled 
or baked \K\\h milk and egg, as rice pudding, it forms 
a substantial meal, and is especially suitable for in- 
valids, as it does not make great demand on the 
digestive powers. Rice boiled five or six hours forms, 
on cooling, and after the water has been strained off, 
a jelly which is soluble in warm milk, and makes a 
pleasant change of diet. Rice water is made by Avash- 
ing an ounce of good rice in cold water, then macerating 
it for three hours in a quart of water kept at a tepid 
heat, and afterwards boiling it slowly for an hour. 

Rice luater is very useful as a drink in all irritable 
states of the alimentary tract, as in Dysentery and 
Diarrhoea. Indeed, it has been known to arrest the 
latter Avithout the use of any medicines. 

Of the various farinaceous preparations adapted to 



PRODUCTS OF KITCHEN GARDEX. 71 



the digestive powers of infants, dyspeptics, and inva- 
lids generally, Neave's, Ridge's, and Hard's take the 
lead, and each of these has its recommendations. Our 
own experience, extending over many years, leads us 
to give the preference to Neave's so long as it is ob- 
tained fresh and in good condition. It has been 
analyzed at dififerent times by the highest authorities, 
and found to contain in an easily digestible form all 
the ingredients requisite for the formation of flesh, fat, 
and bone, and for the maintenance of animal heat. It 
contains the gluten and salts in which corn flour is 
deficient. It makes excellent gruel, and is admirably 
adapted for infants in the transition stage between an 
entire milk diet and ordinary food. For young infants, 
and for children suffering from Diarrhoea, Indi- 
gestion, Constipation, Flatulence, Atrophy, or Aphtha?, 
corn flour and similar preparations are very unsuitable. 
In all cases, foods which contain traces of bran, and 
also gluten, gimi, sugar, cellulose, and saline matter, 
especially the phosphates, in proportion to the starch, 
are to be preferred. 

Passing now to \\\q. products of the kitchen garden. 
Dr. Chambers has classified them according to the cJiief 
purposes they subserve in the animal economy. The 
place of each plant in the class indicates its average 
value : for instance, the potato stands first in vahic for 
its starch, cabbage as an anti-scorbutic. The classifi- 
cation is useful as indicating what should be eaten or 
avoided in certain diseased states of the system. 

I. Starchy and Sugary Plants. — Potatoes, yams, 



VEGETABLE FOOD. 



chestnuts, beans, lentils, peas, Jerusalem artichokes, 
carrots, parsnips, beetroot, salsafy, turnips. Each of 
these is a force-giver, but each may be unsuitable for 
food in some disordered conditions. 

2. Stimulants. — Asparagus, wild onions, artichokes, 
strong onions, garlic, aromatic herbs, mustard, cress, 
and a few other pungent salad materials. These cause 
increased secretion of saliva and gastric juice, and 
thus promote the digestion of a larger quantity of food 
than could be otherwise dissolved. 

3. Anti-scorbutics. — Cabbages, tomatoes, and salad 
materials in general. These products contribute 
valuable saline materials to the blood ; but they 
should be quite fresh, or they will cause indigestion, 
and scrupulously clean, otherwise they will be the 
instruments of introducing the ova of worms into the 
system. 

4. Diluents. — Cabbages, spinach, turnip-tops, winter 
greens, broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, sorrel, 
nettle-tops, or any leaves sufliciently palatable to eat 
and soft to swallow, and which are green when boiled. 
The chief use of these diluents — or perhaps they might 
as appropriately be called disintegrants— appears to be, 
not to contribute actual nutriment, but, by being 
mixed up in the stomach v.ith nitrogenous food, to 
render it more thoroughly open to the action of the 
digestive secretions, and more easily available for ab- 
sorption by the intestinal glands. Like gelatine, 
though apparently not nutritious in themselves, they 
make other things nutritious. 



PULSES. 73 

Legiiffiifious seeds, or Pulses, are characterised by 
the large proportion of nitrogenous matter they con- 
tain ; indeed, they surpass the cereals in this respect, 
some of them containing twice as much as ordinary 
wheat. The form in which the nitrogenous matter 
is present is chiefly that known as Icgumine, the repre- 
sentative of caseine. Pulses possess a high nutritive 
value on account of their nitrogenous character, but 
should be eaten with starchy food, as rice, or with 
fatty food, as bacon. They are very satisfying, more 
so than vegetable diet generally. There is this disad- 
vantage, however, attending their use, that they are 
not easily digested, and must be boiled for a long time 
to render them amenable to the gastric juice ; they 
also occasion flatulence and colic, the eructations 
having a strong, disagreeable flavour of sulphuretted 
hydrogen, due to the sulphur which they contain ; 
further, they are heating to the system. 

Broad, or Windsor Beans are used as a vegetable 
without the pods, the seeds being eaten in their green 
state. They are also dried and preserved while still 
green, so as to be always available. French Beans :\Xi<\ 
Scarlet Runners are eaten with the pods before they 
are ripe. On the Continent the seeds of the dwarf beau 
arc allowed to ripen, and, when stripped from the pods, 
are sold as haricot beans. Beas arc consumed while yet 
young, without their pods, and form a very delicate 
and nutritious vegetable if they are so young that the 
skins crack in boiling and are ([uite tender. Unbroken 
skins become harder the longer they are boiled, and 

F 



74 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

are very indigestible. Old peas should be treated as 
dried peas — soaked, stewed, and crushed — if they are 
to be rendered palatable and digestible. Dried peas, 
split peas, without skins, if well boiled, are excellent 
food for healthy persons. Peas-hannocks, or cakes 
made from the meal, are a favourite food, with fat and 
milk, in the south-east of Scotland ; and in England 
peas, with fat bacon or butter, have been eaten for 
generations. 

Revalcnta and Ervalenta are fancy preparations of 
lentil flour, with a mixture of barley flour, cocoa, or 
other ingredients. They are rich in nitrogenous 
matter, but less digestible than preparations from 
wheat, barley, and oats. Lentil flour makes excellent 
soup, the flavour (if objectionable) being disguised by 
the addition of sugar, Indian corn flour, barley meal, 
a little celery or asparagus. 

The Spanish Chestnut contains a large proportion 
of starch, a considerable quantity of sugar, but little 
or no oil ; when uncooked, is very indigestible ; when 
roasted or boiled, can only be wisely taken by those 
whose digestive powers are in good order. The Walnut 
contains oil ; so also does the Hazel nut, whether the 
variety be i\-\Q Jilbert, cob-nut, or Barcelona nut; the 
Brazil nut is very rich in oil ; the Cocoa-nut contains 
about 70 per cent, of a fixed fat, which is extracted 
and used under the name of cocoa-nut oil or butter. 
All these nuts are highly nutritious on account of the 
albumen and caseine they contain, but they are not 
easily digested on account of the large proportion ol 



STARCH. 75 

fat. They should be taken in extreme moderation, at 
a time whm the stomach has had some rest, and can 
employ its powers for their digestion. They should 
be very thoroughly masticated, so that the saliva may 
act freely throughout the mass ; they may then be 
taken by those whose digestion is good, but must be 
avoided by invalids. Under exposure to air the con- 
stituent oil is liable to turn rancid. 

Almonds are of two kinds. The bitter almond con- 
tains elements which, when brought into contact with 
water, develops poisonous products, and consequently 
when employed for flavouring puddings, cakes, and 
liqueurs, has proved injurious, and even fatal. The 
sweet almond is innocuous. On account of its irritating 
qua.lities the skin should be removed by soaking the 
almond in warm water before the kernel is eaten; this 
may then be taken by those whose digestion is good. 
If it be baked for a little while it may be easily broken 
and pulverised, and thus rendered more digestible. Dr. 
Pavy has suggested that biscuits be made of almond 
flour for use in Diabetes, and indeed, where they can 
be borne, in all cases of defective nutrition, on account 
of its richness in nitrogenous and fatty elements. 

Stareh is also an important alimentary product, 
found only in the vegetable kingdom ; but there it is 
very extensively distributed. As an article of diet it 
is useful in the formation of fat and force ; but is 
devoid of nitrogen. It has this recommendation, 
that it allays the sense of emptiness and hunger when 
other food cannot be taken. But the granules are 



76 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

covered with a hard envelope which renders them 
difficult of digestion, unless the envelope be burst by 
the action of heat. If then they be eaten uncooked 
they pass through the canal without yielding up their 
nutritive properties. If, however, they be boiled, the 
envelopes are ruptured, and the contents are easily 
transformed, either by the saliva or the intestinal 
juices, into sugar, and are thus easily assimilated 
through the mucous membranes. All preparations 
of starch should therefore be cooked before they are 
eaten, by stirring them into boiling water or boiling 
milk, and then letting them simmer for a few minutes. 
If they be prepared with milk instead of vrater, wine 
should not be added. 

Sago, prepared from the pith of a species of palm, 
is useful for thickening soups, and making light 
puddings, which with the addition of , milk form 
a light and easily digested diet for the invalid. 

Tapioca, prepared from the root of the cassava, is 
similarly employed and similarly useful. 

Tapioca jelly makes an allowable and pleasant dish. 
The tapioca should be soaked in cold water for 
several hours, and then cooked until perfectly clear, 
adding more water if necessary'. When done, sweeten 
to taste, and flavour with vanilla, lemon, or wine, and 
when cold eat plain or with cream. 

Arro'ivroot possesses little nutritive value and little 
sustaining power ; its chief m.erit is that it is bland 
and easily taken; but some other alimentary sub- 
stance should be added to it. The true arrowroots 



POTATOES. 77 



(Bermuda, Jamaica, and West Indian) are to be 
preferred for the sick-room, for they will often remain 
on the stomach of an invalid when the others will be 
rejected. 

Tous-les-mois may be employed in the same way as 
arrowroot. 

We come now to a class of vegetable products 
containing a large proportion of water, which makes 
them succulent ; of these the potato takes the lead in 
importance and dietetic value. 

Potatoes are an agreeable and wholesome article of 
food, easily cultivated, easily kept, easily cooked, not 
always easily digested, but of the taste of which one is 
not soon tired. They also have the recommendation 
of being anti-scorbutic. In this quality cabbages take 
the first place, and all succulent vegetables share, but 
potatoes have been proved repeatedly to produce a 
most beneficial effect in the prevention and cure of 
scurvy. 

The proportion of starchy constituents is large, and 
ot nitrogenous elements small, so that it is desirable 
to eat with them some other food to supply the 
deficiency in nitrogen, such as meat, fish, bacon, 
buttermilk, etc., in order that a fully nutritious 
diet may be supplied. When cooked the heat em- 
ployed coagulates the albumem, the starch granules 
absorb the watery particles, swell, and burst their 
cells, and thus the mass is broken down into a 
loose, floury, or mealy condition. If, however, the 
absorption is incomplete, and the rupture of cells 



78 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

imperfect, the mass remains coherent, firm, and waxy. 
In the former state the potato may be easily digested, 
in the latter it is diflicult of digestion. Young 
potatoes being close and firm are very indigestible, 
but old waxy potatoes are more so. 

Preparation for the Table. — The best method of 
cooking potatoes, certainly from September to June, 
"s by steaming them in the skin ; by this process heat 
penetrates everywhere, and there is no loss of material 
and salts. For this purpose a saucepan, one-fourth 
full of boiling water, is required, into which a closely 
fitting steamer is placed, containing the potatoes, the 
latter being so packed as to allow a free passage for the 
steam. If the potatoes are boiled, the skins should not 
be previously removed, or a large amount of salts will 
pass out.* The addition of common table salt to the 
water is advantageous, for it helps to retain the natural 
salts. The boiling should be thorough, otherwise the 
starchy grains are undigested. From twenty-five to 
thirty-five minutes is the time usually required, accord- 
ing to the kind of potato boiled. Potatoes should 
be served up immediately they are cooked, and not, 
as is too frequently the case, placed over the fire at 
half-past eleven or twelve for a one o'clock dinner. 
Towards the end of the season, old potatoes are 
improved by being peeled overnight and put into cold 
water, by which process they regain, in a measure, 
their natural colour and consistency. Potatoes are 

• Dr. Letheby estimates the waste when the skins are re- 
moved at 14 per cent., when not removed at only 3 per cent. 



POTATOES. 



rendered more digestible by being finally mashed, and 
mixed with a little red gravy as it runs from the cut 
surface of a joint 

Roasted potatoes are more nutritious than boiled. 
Potato soup is a better food by the addition of peas, 
and potatoes mixed up with cheese and curds form 
an excellent dish. 

Potatoes are spoiled by germination or growing 
and by frost; severe frost almost invariably kills 
them, so that when the thaw comes the process of 
putrefaction immediately sets in. 

Choice of Potatoes. — They should be large and firm 
to the touch, should present no evidence of disease or 
fungi, should not have been exposed to frost, neither 
should they be germinating or growing, for then the 
starch is undergoing a saccharine metamorphosis. 
Further, when cooked they should not be close, 
watery, or waxy ; but floury or mealy. The best sorts 
are the Kent, York, and Scotch Regents, the forty- 
fold, and the fluke. The regent is a round, rough- 
skinned potato ; the fortyfold has a pinkish skin, and 
is extremely white and mealy ; the fluke, though a 
great favourite, is close at one end, and sometimes 
turns black when cooked. 

T\\Q Jernsaiem Artichoke is somewhat similar to the 
potato, but does not become mealy when boiled. It is 
devoid of starch, but contains a considerable proportion 
of sugar ; it therefore does not become friable, but is 
sweeter than the potato. It is not largely used as an 
article of diet, though it has the recommendation that 



So VEGETABLE FOOD. 

it can be kept in the ground through the winter, and 
dug up when required, without injury from frost. It 
is not very nutritious, nor very digestible ; it should 
therefore only be eaten as an occasional change on 
account of the flavour. 

Carrots make a pleasant change in one's vegetable 
fare, but are apt in some cases to produce flatulence. 
The less they have of the central yellow part, and the 
more of the outer red part, the better. Carrot pap, 
prepared from \.h.<i Juice of the root without the indiges- 
tible fibre, has been recommended for scrofulous 
children and adult dyspeptics. 

The Parsjiip possesses the same general characters 
as the carrot. Being sweet, it is well adapted for 
children's use, but should be avoided when old and 
stringy. 

The Turnip contains a very large proportion of 
water (91 per cent, according to Dr. Letheby), and 
hence is of little nutritive value, and is more 
difficult of digestion than carrots or parsnips. Young 
turnip-tops gathered in the spring are wholesome. 

Radishes are somewhat like the turnip, but being 
usually eaten raw, are often indigestible. 

We now turn to another class of vegetables. The 
leaves, shoots, and stems of some plants are valuable for 
food, chiefly on account of the salts they contain, and be- 
cause they give variety to the diet. They shouldgenerally 
be grown quickly, in order that woody fibre may be 
less abundantly formed, and without much light, that 
the characteristic properties may not be unduly deve- 



CABBAGES. 8i 

loped. If the chlorophyl, which gives the green colour 
to vegetables, be abundant, it is apt to produce purging 
— indeed, green vegetables are always more or less 
relaxing. They are consequently useful when the 
bowels are constipated, and must be altogether avoided 
when Diarrhoea or Dysentery is present. They possess 
a high anti-scorbutic value. In all cases they should 
be eaten as fresh as possible, for every hour's delay 
after they have ceased to grow they become less 
digestible. When sprinkled Avith water after they 
have been kept, they may look well, but never regain 
their early freshness ; hence they often ferment in the 
stomach, and cause flatulence. 

Cabbages, Savoys, Sprouts, Caulifiower, Broccoli, etc., 
are of the same general character \ but as the propor- 
tion of water in their composition is very large, they 
are not very nutritive. Moreover, they are not easy 
of digestion, and therefore not suitable for dyspeptics, 
while the large proportion of sulphur they contain 
causes disagreeable flatulence of carbonic acid and 
sulphuretted hydrogen. Cabbage, however, is a most 
valuable anti-scorbutic, but if fermentation has begun 
its virtue is destroyed. Bleedincj of the gums and 
Purpura are benefited by it. The best sorts of cabbage 
are the old white garden variety and the summer 
cauliflower. They should be soft but crisp before 
being cooked. 

Spinach is wholesouie, and somewhat laxative. 

Rhubarb is eaten as a fruit rather than as a vege- 
table, and requires to be well sweetened to make it 



82 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

palatable. As it contains oxalate of lime, it should be 
avoided by those who are subject to Calculus. 

Lava- must be soaked in water before cooking to 
remove saline matter, and is then useful. 

Celery is sweet and mild when cultivated, but on 
account of the quantity of woody fibre in its com- 
position is indigestible when eaten raw. If so eaten, 
it should be with a light lunch of bread and cheese, 
not after a full meal. Stewed in beef gravy it makes 
a delicious and wholesome soup. 

Sea-kale, if perfectly white and properly cooked, is 
delicate, nutritious, and easy of digestion. 

The Green Artichoke, which is the flower-head of a 
species of thistle gathered before the flower expands, 
is a delicate vegetable, and when boiled till it is quite 
soft may be eaten freely by invalids. 

The Asparagus is a young shoot gathered before it 
expands. It should be eaten as soon as possible after 
being cut, and is then most wholesome. The greenest 
heads are to be preferred, as they contain the largest 
amount of the peculiar principles of the plant. There 
need be no fear that they will prove injurious to the 
kidneys, as some persons suppose. Slight cases of 
Rheumatism have been cured by eating freely of this 
plant ; and chronic cases of rheumatic gout and gravel 
much relieved. 

Onions are very wholesome vegetables, whether 
eaten raw, or stewed, or roasted ; they are too strong, 
however, for invalids when they have not been cooked, 
as they possess strongly irritant and stimulating proper- 



SALADS. 83 

ties. Those imported from Spain and Fcrtugal are 
sufficiently mild and sweet for ordinary diet, especially 
if they are boiled in two or three waters. Onions act 
as anti-scorbutics, and to some as a laxative. 

Leeks should be white, aiid have little smell ; they 
are then soft and good, and very digestible. 

Lettuce is agreeable, cooling, and digestible as a 
salad ; the juice is mildly soporific. 

Water-cress and Mustard-a7id-Crcss form wholesome 
salad. 

Cucutnber, eaten raw and quite fresh, may be taken 
with bread and cheese as a light lunch, but should 
not follow a more substantial meal, for it is indigest- 
ible, and apt to disagree with many persons. Stewed, 
it is light and wholesome. 

Vegetable Marrows and Pumpkins contain much 
water but little nutriment; they are easily digested. 

Mushrooms, which are generally eaten after being 
stewed, sometimes disagree with those who take them ; 
nevertheless to most persons they are not injurious, 
though by dyspeptics they are best avoided, for some- 
times they cause colic, vomiting, and purging. Forced 
mushrooms are sometimes tough and indigestible ; 
those grown in open pastures are by far the best. It is 
not always easy to distinguish mushrooms from 
poisonous fungi, so that some caution is desirable in 
gathering them and preparing them for food. 

" A meadow mushroom should peel easily, and it 
should be of a clean pink colour inside, like a baby's 
hand, and have a frill or ' curtain ' (as botanists. 



84 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

call it) attached to the stalk. When the gills are 
brown they are growing old and dry, and losing their 
nutritive qualities." — Chambers. 

Vegetable Broths, made of any of the ordinary market 
vegetables in season by boiling and straining, are 
useful as substitutes for animal foods when the latter 
are not allowed. Out of season dried vegetables 
may sometimes answer the purpose. In preparation of 
these, and in all other cookery for the sick, so far as 
possible, non-metallic surfaces only should be allowed 
to come in contact with the materials employed. A 
simple method is to put them into an ordinary basin 
or bowl, placing this in a saucepan of water and cover- 
ing the basin with a saucer. The water in the sauce- 
pan is made to boil, and thereby the food is duly cooked. 

Fruits are agreeable and refreshing, but as their 
proportion of water is high and of nitrogenous matter 
low, they are of little nutritive value. When taken 
in moderation they are very wholesome, counteracting 
the unhealthy condition which attends a diet of 
dried and salted provisions, and promoting a some- 
what relaxed state of the bowels. Fruit should 
not be taken, as it usually is, after a substantial 
dinner. It is best eaten in the morning as at 
lunch, with stale bread and a little water. When 
consumed in large quantities fruit is injurious ; 
particularly if it be unripe or over-ripe, — in the 
former case by the action of the fruit-acids, in the 
latter by fermentation and decomposition. Fruit is very 
beneficial to gouty and rheumatic subjects, because the 



FRUITS. 85 

alkaline vegetable salts become decomposed in the 
system and diminish the acidity of the urine. But 
patients should avoid acid fruits, if there is Diarrhoea 
present to contra-indicate their use. The seeds of 
all fruits and vegetables, if swallowed, prove more or 
less irritating to the intestines, and in inflamed or 
ulcerated conditions may do irreparable mischief. 

Apples when raw are not easily digested ; when 
cooked, are light, digestible, and wholesome. Roasted 
apples are somewhat laxative, and may be eaten to 
counteract Constipation. The skin and core should 
be rejected. Dried apples are prepared for use by 
being stewed. 

Pears when ripe are more digestible than apples, 
but as they decay sooner, they are more likely to pro- 
duce derangement of the bowels. If they are sound, 
juicy, and soluble, they may generally be taken with- 
out danger. The Medlar, as it is only eaten when 
decayed, is for this reason unsuitable for invalids. 

The Orange is one of the most agreeable and useful 
fruits for the sick-room ; it is exceedingly grateful and 
refreshing, and is less likely to cause disorder than 
most other fruits. A heavy orange, with a fine thin 
rind, and the greenish calyx still attached, is usually 
the most juicy and the best adapted for the invalid. 
Old oranges, with many pips in them, arc not so 
valuable. 

The Lemon is too acid to be eaten alone, except 
that its juice is grateful, refreshing, and beneficial in 
rheumatic affections ; but in the form of lemonade it 



86 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

makes a cooling and wholesome drink for all occa- 
sions. I.emon-juice is very valuable as an anti- 
scorbutic ; so also is lime-juice. Lemon is elsewhere 
recommended as an addition to tea. 

Plums arc less wholesome than most other fruits, 
though this objection to them is lessened by cooking 
them. They produce Colic and Diarrhoea, and are 
employed occasionally to promote relaxation in cases 
of Constipation of the bowels. Cherries also, when 
unripe or over-ripe, disorder the bowels. 

Peaches, Nectarines, and Apricots are luscious fruits, 
when quite ripe, yielding a delicious pulp for the re- 
freshment of the invalid ; the skin should be rejected. 

Grapes are most refreshing, wholesome, and nutri- 
tious in the sick-room, when ripe and not decayed, 
the skins and pips being rejected. They may be 
safely taken, and if eaten freely are somewhat diuretic 
in action. 

Paisins, which are dried grapes, contain more sugar 
and less acid than ripe grapes ; they are consequently 
more nutritious, but are less cooling to the parched 
mouth of a feverish patient. If eaten too freely, 
especially if the skins or pips be swallowed, they are 
apt to disorder the stomach. Muscatels are the best, 
because they have been allowed to dry on the vine. 
The quality of raisins is determined by their softness 
and plumpness, and the absence of mites. If these 
be present, the quantity of sugar, which constitutes 
the value of the fruit, is lessened, and instead thereof 
we have feculent remains and carbonic acid. 



FRUITS. 87 

O/rra/z/jare also dried grapes, and are so indigestible 
that they generally pass through the alimentary canal 
without any change ; this is because the waxy, water- 
proof skins are usually unbroken. 

Gooseberries and Currants (red, black, and white) 
are wholesome, cooling, useful fruits ; refreshing and 
laxative in the sick-room ; but together with Rasp- 
berries are generally interdicted in acute diseases. 
The Cranberry, Barberry, Bilberry, and Elderberry 
are too acid to be eaten raw ; the first three are made 
into preser\-es, the last into wine. 

The Strawberry is one of the most delicate, luscious, 
and refreshing of summer fruits, and may, as a rule, 
be taken by invalids, except when Diarrhoea is present. 
The Raspberry, too, is agreeable and wholesome. So 
also is the Blackberry when in fine condition. The 
Mulberry is more acid, and very grateful to fever 
patients ; but the juice only should be taken. 

The Melon is a rich, delicious fruit, but not unfre- 
quently disagrees with those whose digestive powers 
are weak. The Pineapple should not be eaten by 
invalids ; the pulp should be rejected if the juice be 
taken. 

The Fig is sweet and nourishing \ its pulp may be 
eaten by invalids, but if eaten too freely will irritate 
and disorder the bowels; the skin is rather indigest- 
ible. Tamarinds are cooling and laxative ; and when 
mixed with milk to produce tamarind whey form an 
agreeable drink for febrile cases. 

Qf Olives the so-called Spanish are the best, bein^ 



VEGETABLE FOOD. 



soft, pulpy, and oily, Olive oil is regarded by M. St. 
Cyr as the most digestible of fatty foods, even more so 
than fresh butter ; it should, however, be thoroughly 
good, pale, clear, and free from rancid smell, to justify 
this estimate. Lucca oil with its nutty odour is the 
best. 

Gum is the solidified juice which exudes through 
the bark of trees. Gum arabic, which flows from the 
acacia in Arabia, Egypt, etc., is what is usually em- 
ployed in the preparation of drinks. In its prepara- 
tion clear gum should be selected, washed in cold 
water, and then slowly dissolved in cold water. When 
made of the powdered article or with hot water the 
flavour is less agreeable. When flavoured with a little 
sugar it is a refreshing and nourishing beverage for 
invalids. Mucilage differs from gum water in con- 
taining a larger proportion of the gum. It is admi- 
rably adapted for use in inflammation of the mucous 
membranes generally, as in catarrh, bronchitis, etc. 

Seaiveeds are among the most nutritious of vegetable 
products ; in fact, they are richer in nitrogenous 
matter than oatmeal or Indian corn. It is much to 
be regretted that they are so much neglected. They 
may be prepared for food by being first steeped in 
water to remove saline matter, and in some cases a 
litde carbonate of soda should be added to the water 
to remove bitterness. They should then be stewed in 
water or milk until they are tender and mucilaginous. 
When cooked they are best flavoured with pepper and 
vinegar. The most useful varieties are the porphyra, 



SUGAR. 89 

known as /aver in England, siouk in Scotland, and 
stoke in Ireland ; carrageen or Irish moss ; and the 
Laminaria called sea-girdle in England, tangle in 
Scotland, and red ware in the Orkneys. Iceland moss 
is preferable to Irish moss ; it has a fuller flavour, and 
less tendency to affect the bowels. Seaweeds are 
prepared for the table by steeping them either in cold 
or in hot water, sugar being added if desired. 

Sugar is an important alimentary product, chiefly 
found in the vegetable kingdom. It also exists in the 
animal economy, and is there known as the sugar of- 
milk. The vegetable sugar exists in two varieties — 
cane sugar and grape sugar. Cane sugar is very sweet, 
and crystallizes easily ; and though usually extracted 
from the cane, is also obtained from the beet-root, 
and is found in other vegetable forms. Grape sugar, 
or glucose, is inferior in sweetness and crystallizing 
power, and abounds in grapes and other fruits and 
vegetables. It may also be obtained by chemical 
change from cane sugar, starch, gum, etc. It is chiefly 
used to adulterate cane sugar. Sugar is valuable from 
a dietetic point of view, not only as rendering more 
palatable many articles of food, but also as productive 
of fat and force. As it is readily dissolved and diffused, 
it requires no preliminary digestion in order that it 
may be absorbed through the mucous membranes. In 
ordinary cases it does not, therefore, occasion any 
gastric derangement ; but when taken in excess, or 
by some dyspeptics, it is liable to undergo acid fermen- 
tation, and occasion acidity and flatulence. Sugar-of- 

c 



90 VEGETABLE FOOD. 

milk, however, does not undergo this change. Coarse 
brown sugar always contains dirt, sand, and occasion- 
ally mites ; indeed, from handling it grocers get 
psoriasis palmarion, or grocer's itch, a very trouble- 
some skin affection. Loaf sugar and sugar-candy are 
the most free from adulteration. It should be borne 
in mind that sweetened food is apt soon to cloy the 
appetite of invalids, and that attention must be directed 
to what is savoury to secure agreeable change. 

Treacle and Molasses are the respective uncrystal- 
lized residue drained from refined and raw sugar. 

Golden Syrup is treacle purified by being reboiled 
and filtered through animal charcoal. If largely taken 
these products are laxative. They are appropriately 
taken with all kinds of farinaceous food, such as 
bread-pudding, porridge, etc. 

Honey is a concentrated sugar mixed with odorous, 
colouring, gummy and waxy matters, gathered from 
flowers by the bee for its own consumption, but under- 
going some modification by the secretions of the 
insect. It is of the same dietetic value as sugar, is 
slightly laxative, and is often used in the sick-room as 
a demulcent and emollient. 

Manna is the solidified juice of some species of ash, 
containing a peculiar saccharine principle — sweet, 
odourless, crystallizable, white— but diftering from 
sugar in that it does not undergo alcoholic fermeu' 
tation when brought into contact with yeast. It is 
chiefly used as a mild and safe laxative, but it is also 
nutritive. 



COXDIMEXTS. 91 



Such condiments as vinegar, salt, and pepper are 
of real dietetic value, as they make the food more 
tempting to the palate, stimulate a flagging appetite, 
assist digestion by promoting the flow of secretions 
and the movements of the alimentary canal, and 
counteract the action of injurious ingredients of food. 
Excessive use of them, however, promotes indi- 
gestion, and they are of less value in the sick-room, 
salt excepted. The constant presence of this mineral 
in the secretions, and the necessity for it in due pro- 
portions in the blood, indicate the importance of a 
proper supply with the food. This is evident in the 
instinctive desire of animals, and in our own craving 
for it when it is not supplied in sufticient quantity. 
It is essential to the maintenance of health, and must 
not be forgotten in the diet of the invalid. 

Vinegar is useful in helping the stomach to digest 
both animal and vegetable food, particularly if the 
fibre is somewhat hard and difficult to break up. 
It is, therefore, the fitting accessory to such animal 
food as invalids should banish from their table, but it 
can be made use of by those of weak digestion, when 
they wish to vary their diet with a cool salad. 

Both cayenne and black pepper, by stimulating the 
flow of gastric juice, are valuable aids to digestion, 
when used with discretion. 



92 LIQUIDS. 

CHAPTER V. 

LIQUIDS. 

Water. — There is no beverage so wholesome, or, to 
the unperverted taste, so agreeable, as pure water, the 
natural drink of man, which may always be taken in 
moderation when thirst is present. In some form or 
other it is essential to life. Water is requisite in 
many functions of the animal economy ; for example, 
it favours digestion by promoting the solution of our 
food, and acts as a vehicle to convey the more dense 
and less fluid substances from the stomach to their 
destination in the body. It gives fluidity to the blood, 
holding in suspension, or solution, the red globules,- 
fibrin, albumen, and all the various substances which 
enter into the diff"erent structures; for the whole body is 
formed from the blood. Not only the soft parts of the 
body, but even the very materials of the bones, have at 
one time flowed in the current of the blood. Water 
enters into the composition of the tissues of the 
body, lubricates those tissues, and forms a necessary part 
of our bodily structure. It equalises the temperature 
of the body by evaporation, and regulates the chemical 
changes resulting from nutrition and decay. It is the 
vehicle for the removal of effeteproducts from the body ; 
increased water-drinking causes increased flow of urine, 
and thereby facilitates the excretion of solid particles. 
In this way some of the impurities which cause gouf 



JFA TER. 93 

gravel, etc., may be eliminated. To prove how essen- 
tial water is for the development and maintenance of 
the animal body, we may here state that a calculation 
has been made which shows that a human body, 
weighing 154 lb., contains 11 1 lb. of water. A man 
of adult age, average size, and ordinary employment, 
requires from three to four pints of liquid to drink in 
the twenty-four hours. Such facts suggest the 
necessity for obtaining water pure, and taking it 
unpolluted by animal and mineral ingredients. Not- 
withstanding, where strict chemical purity and an un- 
limited supply of water cannot both be secured, the 
latter should be regarded as of the greater importance. 

It has been supposed that water should not be taken 
with meals, lest it should lessen the digestive power of 
the gastric juice by diluting it. But this is an error. The 
probability is that as fluid is rapidly absorbed, what 
is taken at the meal facilitates the secretion of the 
gastric juice at the time it is required. An excessive 
quantity might prove prejudicial. But where persons 
are exposed to great heat, and are obliged to work with 
violent exercise, large quantities must be taken ; and 
then nothing is better than simple water, the purer and 
softer the better. 

Water is the same substance, from whatever source 
it is derived, whether from seas, lakes, or rivers. 
When allusion is made to differences between waters 
it is really to various bodies mingled with the water. 
Thus a water analysis really means an analysis of the 
foreign bodies held in suspension by the water. These 



94 LIQUIDS. 

foreign matters are exceedingly small in all drinking 
waters, but in sea water there is about one part of 
solid substance to thirty parts of water. In common 
waters there are only about i6 to 20 grains in 70,000 
grains, or a gallon of water. Common salt is dis- 
solved in three or four times its quantity of water ; 
but carbonate of lime is not dissolved in less than 
20,000 times its quantity. Salt occurs more or less 
in every drinking water, and is undoubtedly whole- 
some ; but inasmuch as sewage is highly charged with 
salt, any water in which there is an excess is to be 
regarded with very great suspicion. Many of the 
worst wells of London have been resorted to by the 
public and highly valued on account of their slight 
flavour of salt ; the water was, however, prejudicial to 
health. Thirty grains of salt to a gallon of water- 
improve it considerably for drinking purposes. The 
excellences of water are purity, softness, the presence 
of air and carbonic acid to give freshness, and of salt 
to make it tasteless, and also to prevent its ready con- 
tamination by lead. 

Water is sometimes soft and sometimes hard, accord- 
ing to the appearance or non-appearance of soap- 
bubbles when washing. Generally speaking, the dif- 
ference depends upon the carbonate of lime held in 
solution ; until this is exhausted soap-bubbles or 
lather cannot be produced. There are degrees of 
hardness ; thus a water is said to have six degrees 
when a gallon consumes as much soap as will combine 
with six grains of carbonate of lime. Hardness is 



IFA TER. 95 

due to the presence of magnesia as well as lime. 
Carbonate of lime in small proportion in drinking 
water is not injunous to most persons. Indeed, there 
is evidence to show that it is assimilated, and aids in 
the formation of the phosphate of lime in bones ; it is 
therefore useful for rickety children. Hard waters, 
however, are not only unpleasant in use and harsh to 
the skin, but have a tendency to dry up the mucous 
membranes just as they do the skin ; hence they may 
arrest the digestion, and cause gout, stone, gravel, and 
goitre in districts where they are habitually taken. 
Persons may thus suffer from drinking the waters of a 
district ; and, on the other hand, if they have been 
accustomed to use a water which contains a large 
proportion of carbonate of lime, they may lose their 
health by drinking soft water. Attention should 
therefore be paid to the quality of the water of a 
district by persons selecting a residence ; they may go 
where the water would be prejudicial because it is too 
hard, or because it is too soft ; and they may relieve 
their ailments simply by removing to a neighbourhood 
where they can drink a different water. 

Water now and then contains some metal, such as 
iron, lead, and copper. It ought not to be drunk if 
there be more than one-tenth of a grain of iron or 
copper in a gallon of water. A very minute proportion 
of lead is injurious. 

Rain water is soft, and naturally contains the largest 
amount of solid impurity, but unless carefully collected 
in specially clean vessels in the open country, and then 



96 LIQUIDS. 

covered, is likely to become impure. If, however, the 
atmosphere be impregnated with smoke from crowded 
dwellings or fumes from chemical and other factories, 
it cannot be relied on for purity. If, however, it fall 
through a pure atmosphere it may be contaminated 
with what has accumulated on housetops and in water- 
pipes ; and if collected from the roofs of houses and 
stored in underground tanks it is often polluted to a 
dangerous extent. It is therefore rarely in a fit state 
for drinking, though it may be very useful for domestic 
purposes. Its freedom from, earthy salts, moreover, 
renders it liable to contamination from leaden pipes if 
it should be brought through them. But so beneficial 
are its effects upon the skin, that an exclusive use of 
rain water for washing would greatly modify, if not 
entirely remove many skin diseases. 

Spring water is rain water which has percolated 
through the earth, and acquired saline elements from 
the soil through which it has passed. Chalybeate and 
other mineral waters are thus charged, and to such a 
degree as to render them unsuitable for ordinary 
drinking or culinary purposes. They should be taken 
only when prescribed as therapeutic agents. 

Well water is collected spring water. If the well 
be deep, and there is no leakage into it from some 
higher layer of soil, or from some neighbouring decay- 
ing animal or vegetable matters, it usually affords a 
safe and wholesome drink. Some of the purest water 
is obtained from deep wells bored through the earth 
and clay down to the chalk. Of the different varieties 



jrA TER. 97 

of drinkable water, the best for dietetic purposes are 
deep spring and well waters. Superficial well water, 
however clear, bright, and tasteless, should be regarded 
with suspicion, for it is frequently saturated with leak- 
age or soakage from privies, drains, or cesspools, often 
covered up and unknown. Water collected from un- 
cultivated land and allowed to subside in reservoirs, 
or filtered through sand, constitutes good water 
for domestic purposes ; but water collected from the 
surface or drains of cultivated land is always more 
or less polluted with organic matter, even after subsi- 
dence in lakes or reservoirs, and hence is not good for 
drinking purposes, unless it be thoroughly filtered 
before being used. 

River water is partly rain water and partly spring 
water, subject to impurity from the soil, and from 
decaying vegetable and animal matters, and therefore 
only useful to a limited extent. The flow of the stream 
and the absorbing influence of vegetation tend to 
purify the water by oxidation. 

Distilled water is pure, but insipid from its lack of 
air.; its softness makes it easily susceptible to the 
action of lead ; but it is excellent for making tea or 
other infusions. 

Water may be impure from an excess of saline 
ingredients, from the presence of organic impurities, 
or from contamination with lead. The chief danger 
to health is from organic impurity. Cholera and 
enteric fever have been traced to drinking imjjure 
water. Lead contaminates pure water ; but if there 



98 LIQUIDS. 

be a moderate quantity of earthy salts in the water* 
they form an insoluble incrustation in the pipes, which 
is protective. 

It is most important that the receptacles for water 
— tanks and cisterns — should be carefully examined 
and thoroughly cleansed at regular seasons, especially 
after a time of drought and before the approach of 
winter. Much mischief is often done, and disease 
induced, by allowing cisterns to fill up after they have 
been dry or the water in them low ; the quantity of 
sediment and filth is frequently very great, and if not 
carefully removed becomes mingled with every fresh 
influx of water, and thus diphtheria, enteric fev^r, 
and other blood diseases may be set up. The dele- 
terious consequences that ensue from neglect of this 
duty are often alarming, although the source of the 
evil be unsuspected. Boiling water removes some of 
the salts from hard water, and destroys the activity of 
any organic impurities. Filtration, especially through 
charcoal, also purifies the water by removing organic 
matters ; but a filter, to be effective, must be frequently 
cleansed. The most ready test of the presence of 
organic matter is to put a drop of Condy's ozonized 
water into a tumbler of the water to be tested ; if the 
tint does not remain the water is impure. 

Water may be administered to patients at any tem- 
perature that may be desired, but if very cold the quan- 
tity should be very small, for in some diseases it is 
undesirable to lower the temperature of the internal 
organs. If the stomach is in such an irritable state 



IVA TER. 99 

that no liquid can be tolerated, the thirst may be par- 
tially allayed by sucking small pieces oi ice : but where 
ice is substituted for water its use must be constant, 
because ice tends to increase thirst rather than allay 
it ; hence the desire for drink is imperfectly satisfied ; 
so that where water can be borne ice should not be 
given. Moreover the reactionary effects of its con- 
tinued use are not beneficial. When ice cannot be 
procured, water may be cooled in a porous water-jar. 

Ice is a valuable therapeutic agent, and is now ex- 
tensively used both internally and externally, chiefly 
to check haemorrhage, to moderate inflammation, and 
to soothe uneasy sensations in febrile and other 
disorders. In inflammatioji of the brain or its mem- 
branes, and in the severe headache of the early stages of 
acute fevers, it is most useful, applied in small pieces, 
enclosed in a bladder or india-rubber bag, in the form 
of a cap fitted to the head. 

To relieve tlie severe pain and vomiting in cases of 
ulcer or cancer of the stomach, a bag containing small 
fragments of ice should be laid on the epigastrium. 

In in^lamfnation of the tonsils, the sore-throat of scar- 
latina and other eruptive fevers, and in diphtheria^ 
the use of ice relieves pain and arrests inflammation. 
Ice also modifies the secretions from the throat, and 
so obviates frequent painful efforts to detach the mucus 
from the crypts and follicles of the tonsils. For these 
purposes small jjieces should be sucked repeatedly. 

In haemorrhage, ice is extremely valuable. In 
bleeding from the mouthy throat, or nostrils, ice applied 



lOo LIQUIDS. 

directly to the bleeding vessels or to the surface forms 
an efficient styptic. When haemorrhage comes from 
the stomach or lungs ice should be repeatedly szoallotved 
in small pieces, for so taken it will help to contract 
the leaking bloodvessels. 

The use of ice internally should be avoided after 
the fatigue brought on by long-continued or violent 
exercise, it is then too lowering to the system ; and in- 
stead of allowing a patient to cool gradually it gives 
a sudden check to animal heat and to perspiration. 
Drinking iced water under these conditions is even 
still more hurtful to the system. 

To allay local iuflajnmation or check hiemorrhages 
from the surface, ice broken into small pieces should 
be enclosed in a bladder or thin india-rubber bag. 
When one-third filled, the air should be squeezed out 
of the bag, which should then be tied at its mouth on 
an inserted cork, so large and long as to bear the tight 
pressure of the twine. The bag may then be made 
into almost any shape, and fitted to the irregularities 
of the body. {Ringer.) 

Ice is contra-indicated in conditions such as the 
following : — Old age, especially in feeble patients ; 
apoplexy and coma in persons with a feeble pulse ; 
advanced stages of disease ; extretne feebleness. In such 
cases the great sedative power of ice might overwhelm 
the patient, and stop the action of the enfeebled heart. 
It is also advisable to avoid too great a shock to the 
system in any case. 

Tea is a very favourite beverage, but it aftbrds no 



TEA. 



direct nutriment ; the sugar and cream or milk usually 
taken with it yield the nutritious elements. But 
though yielding no absolute aliment, tea, -when 
taken in moderation, exhilarates, restores nervous 
energy, conserves force, retards the waste of tissues, 
enabling the food to go further in its nutritive 
action, and facilitates the transformation of other food, 
and particularly of fatty and farinaceous matters ; the 
body is revived, the mind is stimulated, wakefulness 
is promoted, and hunger is better borne. When 
consumed in large quantities, tea acts prejudicially 
on the nervous system. It then promotes nervous 
agitation, muscular tremors, prostration, and palpi- 
tation ; it may also cause nausea, derangement of 
the stomach, and abdominal pains. Green tea, even 
when genuine, is stronger than black, possesses more 
active properties, and is therefore to be used with 
more caution. Both kinds, when adulterated, are 
more or less injurious. 

" To express in a few words the advantages deriv- 
able from the use of tea, it may be said that it forms 
an agreeable, refreshing, and wholesome beverage, 
and thereby constitutes a useful medium for the intro- 
duction of a portion of the fluid we require into the 
system. It secures that the water consumed is ren- 
dered safe for drinking by the boiling which is neces- 
sitated as a preliminary operation in making tea. It 
cools the body when hot, probably by promoting the 
action of the skin \ and warms it when cold, by 
virtue, it would seem, of the warm, liquid consumed. 



102 LIQUIDS. 

In a negative way it may prove beneficial to health by 
taking the place of a less wholesome liquid. Through 
the milk and sugar usually consumed with it in 
England it aftbrds the means of supplying a certain 
amount, and not by any means an insignificant 
amount, viewed in its entirety, of alimentary matter 
to the system. Experience shows that it often affords 
comfort and relief to persons suffering from nervous 
headache. It also tends to allay the excitement from, 
and counteract the states induced by, the use of 
alcoholic stimulants ; and further, on account of its 
anti-soporific properties, like coffee, is useful as an 
antidote in poisoning by opium." {Paiy.) 

Tea, then, is hurtful, — i. To those of spare habit 
and the underfed. 2. To the young, who are provided 
with the full amount of vital activity. 3. To those 
who perspire too freely. 4. Early in the day, for it is 
then apt to increase tissue waste. 5. To nervous, 
hysterical subjects, or to those whose hearts' action is 
very weak. 

On the other hand, it is beneficial, — i. For the 
overfed and sedentary, for they require increased vital 
action. 2. For the old, whose vital activity is defi- 
cient. 3. For those who have a non-perspiring skin. 
4. During the after part of the day, when the system 
is full of partly digested food, for then the process of 
digestion requires to be quickened. 5. During exces- 
sive heat, in order to relax the skin and relieve 
internal congestion. 6. For those whose nervous 
systems are firmly braced up, 



TEA. 



As commonly prepared, tea is often the cause of 
much Dyspepsia, particularly when drunk in excessive 
quantities, or too frequently, that is, as a rule, more 
than once a day. In some^nervous and gastric dis- 
orders tea and other hot beverages are better discon- 
tinued, at least for a time. In this way intractable 
cases have often been cured. Dyspeptics, suffering 
from flatulent indigestion, should take tea in very 
moderate quantities only, as an excess of fluid in- 
creases the gaseous distention of the abdomen. Dis- 
pensary patients, especially poor women, often drink 
tea at every meal, and much ill-health is the conse- 
quence. When tea causes loss of appetite, palpitation 
of the heart, mental excitement, or sleeplessness, 
obviously its use should be relinquished. Tea should 
never be given to children, even though largely diluted. 
The common practice of adding a small quantity to 
milk-and-water begets a relish for it, leading to its use 
at an age when the nervous and muscular systems 
require no such aid. 

Tea taken with animal food — " tea-dinners," or 
" meat-teas," as they are called — is more liable to 
produce indigestion than when the meal consists chiefly 
of bread and butter. Two or three hours after dinner, 
when digestion has proceeded too far to be much 
interfered with, the habit of taking one or two small 
cups of tea is usually unobjectionable ; but tea is 
always better avoided at bedtime. 

In the preparation of tea three principles are 
extracted ; one aromatic (c//), another nitrogenous 



I04 LIQUIDS. 

{theine), the other astringent and bitter {tan?im). The 
last, the cause of gastric disorder, is only given off 
after prolonged infusion ; whereas the aromatic oil 
and theine are completely extracted in about two 
minutes. Hence to make tea, especially for the 
dyspeptic, it should be made by pouring boilifig water 
(not water that has boiled) on the leaves, and allowing 
it to stand for two minutes. It may then be poured 
off into a heated teapot, so as to separate it from the 
leaves. Thus prepared, tea is not so likely to cause 
flatulence ; but it is less economic than the ordinary 
method, much more tea being required to give flavour. 
If the tea be good the infusion will be fragrant, not 
very deep in colour, not harsh nor bitter to the taste. 
The leaves should not be boiled, otherwise the peculiar 
volatile aromatic principle is dissipated ; nor, for the 
same reason, should the infusion stand long ; in this 
case also too much roughness and bitterness are added 
to the flavour by the extraction of tannin. This 
tannin, though it makes the tea look strong, is worse 
than useless, inasmuch as it renders the food taken 
with the tea insoluble and indigestible. The finest 
teas colour the water the least. In an ordinary infu- 
sion the first cup of tea is also the best, having more 
of the choice flavour and aroma, and less of the 
astringency and colour. River water makes the best 
tea ; soft water is to be preferred to hard ; but soda 
should not be used, for it only extracts the astringent 
tannin. The water should only boil once, immediately 
before using it, and not for hours, as is sometimes the 



TEA. 105 

case ; the teapot should be quite dry\ as well as hot, 
when the leaves are put into it, and the infusion, as 
before stated, not allowed to exceed two minutes. 

Teapots that retain the heat are better than those 
that allow it to pass off readily ; hence unglazed 
earthenware teapots should not be used ; but well- 
glazed earthenware, or porcelain, are suitable ; and 
brightly polished silver teapots are the best, for they 
radiate much less heat than any other material. 

The Chinese drink their tea without any admixture ; 
the Russians add lemon-juice ; the English, sugar 
and cream or milk. 

The use of sugar in tea. — Except in small quantity, 
tea should be given up by persons who have a ten- 
dency to become corpulent. According to some tastes, 
the flavour of tea is improved by substituting lemon 
for cream or milk, — pouring the hot tea over a slice of 
lemon cut with the rind upon it. Besides being more 
palatable, the lemon-juice more effectually allays thirst, 
and is especially valuable at those seasons of the year 
when fruits and fresh vegetables are not generally to be 
obtained. 

" The best tea is that which is pleasantest to the 
taste of the educated customer, and which contains 
most of the characteristic sedative principles. The 
sedative principles in the leaf consist of an essential 
oil — which may be smelt strongest in the finest teas, 
weakest in the inferior sorts, entirely absent in fic- 
titious teas — and of the alkaloid tlieine, which may be 
demonstrated by heating some tea, dry, in a silver pot, 

u 



io6 LIQUIDS. 

when the salt will appear as a white bloom on the 
metal. If there is any bouquet at all, or any theine 
at all, in the specimen examined, it is worth some- 
thing." 

" The shortest way to test the comparative value of 
different specimens is to put a teaspoonful of each in 
one of the little china teapots or cups with covers, 
here used as ornaments, but originally intended for 
this very purpose, which has been previously made 
quite hot ; shake the tea about in the hot pot a few 
seconds and then pour on, quite boiling, a small half- 
cup of water on each. Cover them up quickly and let 
them stand by the fire about a minute. Taste them 
immediately, without milk or sugar, and choose that 
which has most aroma.'' — Dr. Chambers. 

Coffee contains the same principle as tea, and hence, 
has an analogous influence on the system. It is, how- 
ever, more heating and stimulating, heavier and more 
oppressive to the digestive organs, and decidedly in- 
creases the force and frequency of the pulse. Its 
effect upon the mental faculties, quickening their 
energies and causing wakefulness, is not so marked as 
in the use of tea. It, however, relieves hunger and 
fatigue, and thus enables soldiers on heavy marches to 
undergo arduous exertion ; it appears to have a staying 
power, lessening the amount of waste, and thus econo- 
mizing other food. It is laxative to some and con- 
stipating to others, and is serviceable in warming the 
body in cold weather ; it is also cooling in warm 
weather by stimulating the action of the skin, though 



COFFEE. 107 

not SO much so as tea. It has been found beneficial 
to those weary from travelling in the heat and suffer- 
ing from want of food, also in diarrhoea from overwork 
with anxiety. If taken in excess it produces feverish- 
ness, palpitation, anxiety, deranged vision, headache, 
wakefulness and nervous excitement. It is employed 
as a therapeutic by the new school of medicine. It 
thus relieves headache, soothes nervous excitability, 
and when given strong counteracts the effect of alcohol 
and of opium. 

For ordinary dietetic purposes it is advantageous to 
make both an infusion and a decoction. The infusion, 
made by pouring boiling water on the recently ground 
coffee, extracts the volatile aromatic principle ; the 
subsequent boiling of what has been infused extracts 
the remaining ingredients ; this decoction, free from 
grounds, when poured in a boiling state over the 
freshly ground coffee, takes up the aroma ; a decoction 
can then be made of the grounds from which the 
aromatic principle has thus been removed. Soft water 
acts as an extractive better than hard. A most import- 
ant point in making good coffee is to use a sufficient 
qtiatitity of the powder. The minimum that should 
be allowed is i ^ oz. to a pint of water. The cafe noir 
of the French contains a larger proportion than this. 
Cafe an hit consists of a decoction of strong coffee, to 
which an equal quantity of hot milk is added. It is 
especially necessary to remember that the full qualities 
of coftee are not obtained if water is used at a tempera- 
ture lower than that of the boiling-point. The par- 



io8 LIQUIDS. 

tides of ground coffee are often found suspended in 
the liquid, and isinglass or white of egg is sometimes 
used to refine it. Nothing, however, is required be- 
yond pouring a cupful out and returning it to the pot 
to effect the necessary clearing. 

The addition of boiling milk, in the proportion of 
one-fourth part, adds greatly to the flavour and virtue 
of the coffee. Lastly, when coffee is taken daily, an 
enamelled saucepan should be used for this purpose 
exclusively. 

In the choice of coffee, the best is from Guatemala 
(said to be from Mocha), in the form of small round 
beans. In the preparation of it, the best plan is 
to purchase the beans whole, with the aroma still 
clinging to them, roast them, grind them, and add 
chicory to taste. When made the coffee should 
not be kept boiling or the aromatic oil will be 
lost. After securing a proper quality of coffee beans, 
the next very important object is to know that the 
process of roasting, on which the agreeable flavour 
of coffee very much depends, has been properly 
done. If roasted too little, the oil and empyreumatic 
constituents are not developed ; or, on the other hand, 
if done too much, they may be destroyed. Dr. E. 
Lankester states that coffee beans, when roasted, may 
have three degrees of shade — reddish brown, chestnut- 
brown, and dark brown ; and when a full-flavoured 
coffee is preferred, probably the darkest is the best. 
Alter roasting, coffee should not be kept long before it 
is ground.' This is usually done in a coffee-mill ; or it 



COCOA. 109 

is pounded in a mortar. In either case the mill or 
mortar should be used for no other purpose, as coffee 
has a marked tendency to absorb other odours, and thus 
to acquire a flavour not its own. 

Lastly, when ground it should be used as soon as 
possible, for in this state it rapidly gives ofif its volatile 
oil. The best method for keeping it for a short time 
is in a clean, accurately stoppered bottle. Lead or tin- 
foil covering does not so effectually retain the virtues 
of the ground coffee. 

Chicory yields a drink closely allied in flavour and 
colour to coffee, and is largely used on the Continent. 
In this country it is mixed with coffee, which in the 
judgment of many persons is thus improved. It con- 
tains no alkaloid, and has no nutritive value. 

Cocoa is distinguished from tea and coffee by the 
large amount of nutriment it contains ; indeed, it 
may be regarded as a food rather than as a refreshing 
beverage. Of albuminous matters it contains about 
20 per cent., and of fatty matters about 50 per cent., 
before it has been subjected to the process of manufac- 
ture. The essential principle — theo-bromine — also 
contains more nitrogen than theine and caffeine. 
The fat — known as cacao butter — has this excellence, 
that it does not become rancid after exposure to 
air. But the large proportion in which this exists 
renders cocoa heavy and oppressive to a weak stomach, 
and thus unsuitable to the dyspeptic or bilious. Its 
ver)' high nutritive power, however, strongly recom- 
mends it for general use. 



no LIQUIDS. 

The large amount of fat and albumen it contains 
renders it a most valuable article of diet, alike for 
strengthening the frame in a state of debility, and 
sustaining it under prolonged or excessive exertion. 
During nursing it is most useful, tending, probably 
more than any other beverage, to maintain an excel- 
lent supply of mother's milk. The combination of 
nourishing properties which cocoa contains has led to 
its being compared to milk. Humboldt states that 
cocoa and maize cakes are used by travellers in South 
Africa, and that the large amount of agreeable nourish- 
ment in small bulk enables them to carry easily several 
days' supplies. 

" Cocoa nibs" contain the largest amount of nutri- 
ment, and are the most free from adulteration of all 
the forms of cocoa prepared for the market. 



DYSPEPSIA. Ill 



CHAPTER VI. 

DYSPEPSIA. 

"The healthy palate is the crown of a cool stomach." 

— Epicure's Year Book. 

Dyspepsia and indigestion are general terms em- 
ployed to describe various disordered states of the 
digestive organs. 

Dcficic7it acidity of the gastric juice constitutes 
one form of indigestion. If the hydrochloric, or 
perhaps lactic acid be insufficient in quantity, the 
digestive function is but imperfectly performed, or is 
arrested entirely. 

Excessive acidity is another form. In this, useless 
acids — the acetic and butyric — have been developed 
by chemical changes in the food. Hence we have 
some of the sour eructations which frequently charac- 
terize indigestion. 

Excessive secretion of mucus also interferes with 
healthy digestion, for it acts as a ferment, and occa- 
sions the production of useless acids. 

Torpidity of the gastric glands retards the digestive 
process. In such cases, the irritation of the food, and 
the stimulus of saliva, are insufficient to excite the 
secretive action of the glands, hence the gastric juice 
is not poured out for action on the food. Persons who 
suffer from this form of indigestion frequently resort 
to spiced and seasoned dishes and condiments, to 
stimulate the action of the glands ; on the other 



DYSPEPSIA. 



hand, this very torpidity is induced by tlie needless use 
of such gastric stimulants. 

These different forms of stomach indigestion 
occasion imperfect chymification (the transformation of 
food into chyme) or afford opportunity for fermenta- 
tion of the food ; for when the vital functions are 
in abeyance, chemical affinities assert tlieir force and 
produce morbid changes. Hence arise the various 
symptoms of dyspepsia. 

Then duodenal indigestion, due to derangement of 
the small intestine, occasions imperfect chylijication 
(the transformation of chyme into chyle). 

The various unnatural conditions thus included 
under the common term dyspepsia, or indigestion, 
obviously require different medicinal and dietetic treat- 
ment. This is also manifest from a consideration of 
the dietetic errors which are generally the proximate 
causes of indigestion. 

Overloading the Stomach. — This may occur in three 
ways, — by excessive quantity, excessive variety, and 
different digestibility of food. The quantity may 
be so large that it may be difficult for the stomach to 
deal with it \ the variety may be so great that what 
should be digested in the duodenum impedes the action 
of the gastric juice on that which it is specially designed 
to solve ; and the digestibility of different foods may 
be such that after the more digestible food has passed 
out, some remains in the stomach, an incubus to its 
exhausted powers. With reference to these cases it 
should be remembered that the quantity of gastric 



OVERLOADING THE STOMACH. 113 

juice secreted is limited, and only suffices for the 
digestion of a moderate quantity of food ; that dif- 
ferent kinds of food — nitrogenous, starchy, and olea- 
ginous — require the exercise of different digestive 
functions ; and that different articles also require 
different periods of time for their digestion, some being 
liquefied in an hour and a half, others requiring six 
or more hours before they are fit for assimilation. 
The capacity of the stomach is not unlimited, either 
in size or in function, hence it may be easily over- 
loaded, and its powers so impeded as to cause in- 
digestion. For as soon as the bulk of a meal is 
digested, it begins at once to pass out of the stomach 
into the intestine, the other articles going with it 
whether digested or not ; it is therefore obvious that 
if two descriptions of food are eaten at one time, a 
portion of the less digestible will pass along with the 
other into the duodenum, and produce distention, 
irritation, and other inconveniences. Nothing is 
more common, for instance, than for diners out 
to eat a hearty meal of fish, flesh, game, and pastry, 
to finish off with raw salad, dressed with oil and 
eaten with cheese, to say nothing of dessert con- 
sisting of dried fruits, almonds and nuts, washed 
down with sips of different wines! In such a case 
easily digested and indigestible articles mingled to- 
gether overload the stomach, and halfdigested ma- 
terials pass out with the principal portion of the meal, 
causing disorders which involve discomfort, if not 
injury. Indeed, it may be remarked, once for all, 



114 DYSPEPSIA. 



that though the human stomach is wonderfully accom- 
modating, retribution is sure to come at last, though 
perhaps not in the shape of immediate pain or un- 
easiness in the digestive organs themselves. Many 
of the complaints incident to persons in comfortable 
circumstances, such as gout, rheumatism, neuralgia, 
and various affections of the skin, though affecting 
other organs besides the stomach, can be dis- 
tinctly traced to imperfect digestion or assimilation 
of food. 

2. Cooling the Stomach. — The natural temperature 
of the stomach is 98°, The maintenance of this tem- 
perature is essential to the discharge of its functions, 
and to those chemical changes which attend digestion. 
Whatever lowers it interferes with the secretion of 
gastric juice, and if the depression amounts to 15° or . 
more, completely stops it. If the secretion be thus 
arrested, it is not resumed until by the exertion of 
nervous energy (so much waste) the temperature has 
again risen to 98' ; and it has been found by experi- 
ment that after the stomach has been cooled, say 
30°, it requires thirty minutes for the recovery of 
the temperature, after all the water has been absorbed. 
Hence we may infer the mischievous consequences of 
drinking large quantities of cold water or cold beer 
during a meal, to say nothing of the fashionable 
custom of eating ices at the termination of dinner. 
Digestion is thereby immediately arrested, and the 
food either remains an inert mass in the stomach, or, 
in weakly individuals and those suffering from dys- 



STIMULANTS WITH FOOD. 115 

pepsia, begins to ferment and disengage acids and 
gases. 

3. Stimulating the Stomach. — The use of strong 
stimulants, especially alcoholic drinks, also arrests the 
secretion of gastric juce, and seems to produce inflam- 
mation of the mucous lining of the organ. As a 
rule, a moderate quantity of stimulants, whether in 
the shape of condiments, strong wine, or spirits, delays 
and protracts the process of digestion, instead of assist- 
ing it, as is generally supposed. The reason of this 
is pretty obvious ; for these matters often cause con- 
gestion of the gastric glands, which lessens or arrests 
their secreting power ; in other cases they interfere 
with the solvent chemical action of the gastric juice, if 
they do not actually decompose it ; and if they be taken 
in any quantity they seem to act as a sort of pickle 
or preservative to the food, and prevent its solution. 

4. Eating too soon after a previous fneal. — The 
quantity of gastric juice secreted being only just 
sufficient to digest the first meal, none can be sup- 
plied for the second, which also begins to pass out of 
the stomach undigested and mixed with the first, 
necessarily occasioning more or less disturbance in 
the intestinal part of the process. The stomach also> 
in common with other organs of the body, needs an 
interval of repose for the recovery of nervous energy. 
The error of eating too frequently is very common, 
especially among those who take luncheon three or 
four hours after breakfast, and dine again after an 
equally short interval. 



Ii6 DYSPEPSIA. 



5. Exercise after a Meal. — The well-known experi- 
ment of feeding two clogs, and allowing the one to 
rest while the other was encouraged to hunt a hare, 
when it was found at the end of two hours that the 
first had fully digested its food, while in the other 
digestion had scarcely begun, is an illustration of the 
harm of too active exercise immediately after a 
meal. Even healthy people are apt to disturb their 
digestion by returning to business, or taking exercise 
of any kind, shortly after eating; and dyspeptics should 
rest at least two hours after dinner. Nor is it prudent 
to exert the brain in any way after eating : for the 
diversion of nervous energy from the stomach to 
the brain deprives the former of what it needs at that 
time, and, if the habit be persisted in, is sure to be 
followed by discomfort and indigestion. Indeed, so 
important is it that nervous energy should be con- 
centrated on the process of digestion, that it is unwise 
by reading newspapers or magazines during meals to 
divert attention from the food, and prevent its being 
thoroughly masticated and insalivated. 

6. Eating Late Suppers. — Meals should not be taken 
shortly before retiring to rest. The gastric diges- 
tion is almost completely suspended during sleep ; 
and even the intestinal digestion is but imperfectly 
performed. Hence the food remains in the duodenum, 
and by pressing on the great ascending vein {z'ena 
cava) is apt to produce nightmare or irregular action 
of the heart, and to disturb the secretion of bile, pan- 
creatic juice, etc. For late diners supper is entirely 



AVOID EXCESS IN QUANTITY. 117 

superfluous ; for early diners no substantial meal 
should be taken within two hours of bedtime. 

Dietetic errors such as these evidently require 
something besides the administration of medicines ; 
they require reformation of habits. Obviously the 
evils attending overloading the stomach are to be 
corrected by some measure of abstinence from food, 
or from that form of food which more particularly 
distresses the digestive organs. 

The quantity eaten should be always rather under 
than over what the appetite seems to require, for the 
appetite is apt to become morbid. Franklin's rule to 
leave oft" with an appetite is a good one. By so doing, 
in ten minutes the appetite will be gone, because the 
food taken has already begun to be appropriated by 
the body. The best rule is to carefully observe the 
sensation* after eating a hearty meal ; if within three 
or four hours there is a feeling of fulness and disten- 
tion, accompanied with feverishness or irritation, it is 
clear that too much has been eaten, and the quantity 
should be diminished till it can be comfortably di- 
gested. Dyspeptics should also not mix various 
articles of food at the same meal, but rather vary the 
diet from day to day. Many substances will be 
tolerated by the stomach if eaten alone, or with 
bread only, which would occasion distress and dis- 
turbance if mixed with other articles more or less 
digestible in themselves. Persons with weak diges- 
tive powers should be careful not to overload the 
sto.mach when travelling, or otherwise exerting them- 



Ii8 DYSPEPSIA. 



selves more than usual. Many railway travellers, 
stimulated by the nervous excitement of travelling, or 
for want of occupation, eat a great deal on their 
journey. It is an error to suppose that the system 
requires more support when on a journey or a voyage. 
Food is then really less necessary than when there 
is active exercise. Hence the extra quantity of food 
and stimulant taken has the effect of increasing the 
disturbance and irritation which naturally arise from 
fatigue and excitement. In fact, the nervous energy 
is on these occasions diverted from the stomach, 
rendering the digestion less perfect than usual. 

Those who suffer from weak digestion should 
accustom themselves to drink very little at their 
meals, especially of any cold fluid. The time to 
drink is from two to three hours after a meal, when 
the cold fluid restores the tone of the stomach, and 
assists the digested food in passing out of it to un- 
dergo the duodenal digestion. The use of strong 
stimulants should also be abandoned. For young 
and healthy persons condiments are quite unnecessary. 
They may afford some enjoyment as matters of taste, 
but if they occasion dyspepsia they are surely much 
better avoided. 

As to alcoholic stimulants, they have been seriously 
misused. To children, young persons, and those in 
perfect health, they are, as a rule, worse than useless ; 
and ardent spirits are most decidedly injurious. 
There are, however, numerous cases when, from 
natural delicacy of constitution, impaired digestion 



ALCOHOLIC STIMULAiYTS. 119 

(as a consequence of disease), and still more frequently 
from force of habit, a certain quantity of stimulus 
becomes necessar}'. The light wines of France, 
Germany, and Hungary are the best for ordinary con- 
sumption. Effervescing wines give a gentle fillip to the 
heart's action, and a happy stimulus to the brain, but 
as a rule they contain too much sugar to be absolutely 
harmless to the gouty or dyspeptic. Many constitu- 
tions are benefited by the moderate use of good sound 
beer or ale, which should always be taken with 
food. Dyspeptics can, however, as a rule, rarely 
tolerate beer or ale, the quantity of fixed air in them 
being apt to produce flatulence and distention, and 
the yeast to encourage the already existing tendency 
to fermentation during the process of digestion. The 
last effect is especially likely to follow the use of in- 
ferior beer and ale. But it is the use of spirits that 
does most mischief; they are generally mixed too 
strong, and they are taken when the stomach is empty, 
and at unseasonable hours. Healthy persons as well 
as dyspeptics should therefore accustom themselves to 
do without stimulants, excepting in the rare cases 
when they ore thought to be necessary by their 
medical advisers ; and then, like other medicines, they 
should be the best and purest of their kind. If 
persons have been long accustomed to alcoholic 
drinks, the sudden and total discontinuance of their 
use may in some instances prove prejudicial ; but as 
a rule this is not the case, the proof of this being 
found in the freedom from any unfavourable effects 



DYSPEPSIA. 



when paupers or criminals have been deprived of their 
customary potions, to say nothing of the testimony 
of reclaimed drunkards who have become total 
abstainers. 

Now with regard to the nature of the food for 
dyspeptics, this is of less importance than the 
quantity. Still it is by no means unimportant. It 
should be as simple as possible at each meal, and 
varied from day to day ; and, as Dr. Parkes suggests, 
when variety in the kind of food cannot be 
secured, variety in the method of cooking and 
serving it will attain the same object. Of course 
all articles must be avoided which possess any 
distinctly medicinal properties, or are known to 
disagree with the individual. Still it must not be 
supposed that everything that has disagreed will 
always disagree, and must therefore be utterly and 
for ever excluded from the dietary. Some persons, 
acting on this erroneous supposition, have reduced 
their diet to a repulsive monotony, and have no relish 
for their food. Some make the great mistake of 
excluding solids, and take nothing but liquids. 
Solids are necessary to stimulate the action of the 
stomach, in which liquid will remain undigested ; 
and the organ should be encouraged by hopeful 
attempts at variety, to appropriate articles in 
addition to those which have hitherto been taken. 
To many persons not a little comfort will be gained 
by taking animal and vegetable food separately, as in 
France — i.e., taking meat at one meal, vegetables at 



VARIETY OF MEATS. I2I 

another. Vegetables are less likely to cause flatulence 
if taken alone than if combined with flesh-meat. But 
whatever the kind, it cannot be too simple, nor too 
plainly dressed. 

Of meats, mutton is usually found to be most 
suitable for those whose digestion is weak, and will 
often be more easily assimilated than beef. Roasted 
meats are better than boiled. Meat should not be 
over-dressed, nor baked in a close oven, nor cooked 
a second time. All fat should be rejected. Boiled 
chicken, venison, and lightly boiled eggs are most 
digestible. Then come roast fowl, lean turkey, par- 
tridge and pheasant, guinea-fowl, pigeons, followed 
by lamb, oysters, and boiled white fish (except cod). 
The last may be rendered more digestible and 
tasty by a few drops of lemon juice. Rich and 
oily fishes, and those of firm texture, should not 
be ventured upon. Of all kinds of fresh meat, 
that which is broiled is the most wholesome, nu- 
tritious, and easy of digestion. The lean of a tender 
rump-steak, about an inch and a half thick, and 
broiled over a quick fire from five to ten minutes 
without being cut or pricked so as to let the gravy 
out ; or the lean kernel of a loin chop, stripped of all 
skin and fat, and broiled over a quick fire from five to 
eight minutes, will prove a tempting and nourishing 
morsel. The usual joints of fresh meat, especially 
the juicy lean portions, come next in digestibility ; 
if they can be taken the dyspeptic has a sufficient 
range. Greasy meats, sucli as pork, duck, goose, 

I 



DYSPErSIA. 



fatted turkey, and salted or preserved meats, are to 
be avoided. Soups, and other liquid food, are only 
slowly acted upon by the stomach ; and if the diet 
consist chiefly of them, they seldom fail to produce 
dyspepsia, and should therefore be avoided, or 
thickened with bread, rice, or pearl barley, in order 
that there may be something solid to stimulate the 
muscular coat of the stomach. 

With regard to vegetables, they are more slowly 
digested than animal and farinaceous food, and are 
therefore more likely to undergo fermentation in feeble 
stomachs, and thus occasion acidity and flatulence. 
They should therefore be taken with caution and dis- 
crimination ; still they should not be altogether omitted 
from the dietary, or disease in some form will ensue. 
Potatoes should be old and mealy, not young nor 
waxy ; peas, beans, French beans, and scarlet runners 
must be very young and soft. Spinach can generally 
be taken ; of cauliflower and broccoli only the head is 
eatable. Cabbages of all kinds are usually objection- 
able, especially where there is a tendency to flatulence. 
Rice and other farinaceous articles, either in the form 
of porridges or light puddings, are generally found to 
agree with w^eak stomachs ; but starchy and saccharine 
matters, in certain debilitated states of the digestive 
organs, appear to be transformed into lactic acid, and 
to occasion acid eructations : oatmeal is in this 
espect the greatest offender, rice the least. Roasted 
apples with a little cream and a very little sugar may 
serve for dessert ; but raw fruit should never be eaten 



FR UIT— BREAD— CHEESE. 



at the close of a substantial meal. Between such 
meals, or as a separate meal, ripe fruits in season, 
such as oranges, strawberries, raspberries, currants, 
grapes, peaches, nectarines, apples, or other freshly 
gathered fruit, will be found to agree with most 
persons, if eaten in moderation, and if skins and 
seeds be studiously rejected ; indeed, if taken with a 
slice of stale bread they will often aid digestion. 
Plums uncooked should seldom be eaten by persons 
subject to indigestion, but when cooked, the pulp is 
not objectionable. Dried fruits, whether cooked or 
uncooked, such as Normandy pippins, figs, French 
plums, and muscatel raisins, may be taken in modera- 
tion if skins and seeds be rejected ; oily fruits, such as 
nuts of all kinds and olives, are objectionable. 

All kinds of bread should be stale or toasted dry. 
Hot buttered toast, made spongy and fot, must be 
eschewed ; so also must hot rolls, muffins, crumpets, 
and likewise new or fatty cakes ; bread puddings are 
safe, plain, not sweet ; water biscuits are flir better 
than fancy sorts ; pastry, puddings, and rich cakes are 
condemned. Cheese should not be taken after 
dinner ; but if new cheese, cut into thin slices, toasted, 
and basted while toasting with cream, be served on a 
hot-water plate, so that it does not become hard and 
tough, it will prove a nutritious and tasty morsel. 
The most innocent and useful beverage is good, pure, 
filtered water; the softer the better if it be pure. 
The temperature at which it may be drunk should 
be proportionate to the temperature of the body, and 



124 DYSPErSTA. 



its susceptibility to heat and cold. To fermented 
and alcoholic drinks reference has been already made. 
Cocoa, made from " nibs," is the best drink for break- 
fast ; one small cup of black tea, infused only two 
minutes and a half, with a slice of lemon and a 
little crystallized sugar in it instead of cream or 
milk, is sufficient in the evening. New milk is not 
easily digested by some persons ; but there are others 
who can take it better than skim-milk, whether 
boiled or unboiled ; milk is, however, better not 
boiled as a rule. Butter is sometimes too rich, but 
good fresh farm butter is not often found to disagree ; 
of all fatty substances it is the most easily assimi- 
lated ; to some very salt, and to all rancid, butter is 
objectionable. Fruit, fresh or preserved, jellies, or 
marmalade, often prove a good substitute for butter. 
Eggs are usually not only wholesome, but easily 
digested if they are lightly boiled. 

In all cases of dyspepsia the cooking cannot be too 
simple. Dishes fried in butter, rich sauces, and sa- 
voury compounds are quite out of place. The appe- 
tite should not thus be tempted ; the natural flavour 
of the food, so cooked as to make it readily soluble 
and digestible, and served attractively, should present 
sufficient temptation. The food should be eaten, and 
the meal nearly completed before the patient drinks ; 
indeed the principal meal of the day is better taken 
without any liquid. A more objectionable practice 
than that of drinking with solid food, is the too common 
habit ot drinking before the meal. Food should 



DIETARY FOR DYSPEPSIA. 125 

never be taken hot — to scald either tongue or stomach 
is to injure two useful organs. 

The following dietaries are recommended for per- 
sons suffering from flatulent dyspepsia: — Breakfast: 
Two or three slices of dry stale bread, with about six 
ounces of fresh milk. Lunch : The same, or six 
ounces of beef-tea (made from fresh beef, or Brand's 
essence). Dinner : A slice or two of underdone roast 
or broiled meat, or else a moderate allowance of fish, 
with bread only, and half a tumblerful of water. 
Evening meal : A repetition of the morning ; and if 
hungry at bedtime, a few biscuits, with a little water 
or milk. If thirsty through the day, a wine-glassful 
of water. Breakfast : Half a pint of warm milk, 
flavoured with tea, one or two poached eggs, bread 
and butter, with from three to five grains of Boudault's 
pepsine. Dinner : At two o'clock, mutton, chiefly 
and absolutely nothing to drink with it, or (but better 
avoided) a table-spoonful of brandy in warm water ; 
no vegetables. Drink : Pure water between meals. 
Supper : Brown bread, as little as possible ; a table- 
spoonful of whisky or brandy in warm water ; no 
malt liquor, no wine of any kind. 

Breakfast at S. — Haifa pint of milk, with or with- 
out soda-water or potash-water mixed ; one egg 
lightly boiled ; dry cold toast, crust of bread, or plain 
biscuit. 

Lunch at 11.— Brown digestive biscuit; half a 
tumbler of milk and water, or a wine-glass of claret in 
water. 



126 DYSPEPSIA. 



Dinner at 1.30 to 2.30. — Roast or boiled mutton or 
beef, better taken warm ; roast or boiled fowl organic, 
without any sauces ; any kind of fish except salmon, 
without sauces ; any kind of vegetable except pota- 
toes ; a small quantity of stale brown or white 
bread ; salt to be taken freely, all other condiments to 
be avoided ; fruit stewed with plenty of sugar ; if more 
sugar be added subsequently it does not sweeten the 
fruit so well ; rice preserves in small quantities ; 
cheese to be avoided. Two glasses of claret, Carlo- 
witz, Chablis, or Hock, may be taken, but other wines 
to be avoided. 

Tea at 5. — One small cup of weak black tea, or of 
cocoa freed from fat ; dry cold toast, crust of brown 
bread, or oatcake, with a flavouring of anchovy paste. 

Supper. — A small slice of cold roast or boiled mut- 
ton or beef; white fish without sauce; a small quan- 
tity of stale brown or white bread ; a table-spoonful 
of whisky or brandy in half a tumbler of water, or 
soda-water if necessary. This last dietary is so ample 
as to include what may be selected from, rather than 
what may be wisely indulged in. Self-restraint 
rather than self-indulgence must be the universal rule 
with dyspeptics who wish to be free from the incon- 
veniences of indigestion. 

Diet for Scrofula. 

The most important predisposing cause of Scrofula 
is undoubtedly hereditary constitution, and there are 
observations which seem to indicate that it is most 



DIET FOR SCROFULA. ii7 

frequently inherited from the mother. The practical 
conclusion from this is that the mother ought not to 
suckle her child if she come of a strumous family. If, 
on the other hand, she be healthy, and the child inherit 
the scrofulous tendency from the father, she should 
set herself to provide the most nourishing diet she can 
from her own breast, and as long as possible. Every- 
thing that will nourish her, and through her the child, 
until the molar teeth appear, should be perseveringly 
taken, and everything that will disagree with her, and 
through her with the child, must be studiously avoided. 
When the teeth appear, and more solid food than 
milk becomes appropriate, the diet should be of a light 
and digestible character. A larger proportion of 
animal food than is usually given to little children 
should be allowed. Cod-liver oil as a supplemental 
article of diet is an agent possessing such remarkable 
and well-known properties of arresting general or 
local emaciation as not to require further recommen- 
dation. It may be given in childhood to arrest the 
development of strumous symptoms, and throughout 
future years either to arrest or to correct them. It 
may be given in any case in which there is wasting 
without acute febrile symptoms, in tea-spoonful doses, 
two or three times a day, commencing even with half 
a tea-spoonful if it be found to disagree, or if there 
be reluctance to take a larger dose. This, or olive oil, 
may also be advantageously employed for inunction 
over the chest, abdomen, and back. Beef, mutton, 
venison, and fowls are the best kind of animal food ; 



128 DYSPEPSIA. 



to these should be added preparations of eggs and 
milk, a due quantity of bread, mealy potatoes, rice, 
and other farinaceous ingredients, as more suited to 
this class of patients than very watery and succulent 
vegetables. Everything that favours the production 
of acidity ; too much fruit ; very salt, sweet, fat, or 
highly-seasoned food should be avoided. No food, not 
even cod-liver oil, should be so given as to excite dis- 
gust. The variety to stimulate the appetite should 
however be in methods of simple cookery, rather than 
in the selection of what is tasty but innutritious. 
Alcohol may be of some service when prescribed as a 
medicine, but only under the watchful observation of 
a medical man. 

Diet for Consumption. 

children. 

The diet of the children of consumptive parents is 
of such importance that it should engage attention 
from the earliest period of life. If the mother be 
delicate and predisposed to Consumption, a wet-nurse 
of a thoroughly healthy constitution should, if possible, 
be provided. If a consumptive mother nurse her 
infant, she is in danger of bringing into activity the 
tubercular disease in herself; while the child is but 
imperfectly nourished, and derives, with the supply of 
milk, an element of danger additional to that which 
it inherited from birth. The infant should be re- 
stricted to healthy breast-milk until the eye-teeth are 
cut, after which slight additions of farinaceous food 



MILK FOR DELICATE CHILDREN. 129 

may be allowed once or twice daily, and the child 
weaned at about nine months. If a wet-nurse cannot 
be obtained, the nourishment should bear the closest 
possible resemblance to the mothers milk, and the 
best substitute for this is cow's milk modified by the 
addition of water and Sugaf-of-Afi/k, for the milk of 
the cow contains more oil (cream), but less sugar than 
that of woman. It is prepared for use as follows : — 
Dissolve one ounce of the Siigar-of-Milk in three 
quarters of a pint of boiling water. Warm to the 
temperature of breast-milk, when wanted, and mix 
with an equal quantity of fresh cow's milk, and let the 
infant be fed with this preparation from the feeding- 
bottle in the usual way. After feeding, always wash 
the bottle with a weak solution of carbonate of soda, 
and put the teat into cold water, letting it remain 
there until wanted again. 

It is of course necessary to use cow's milk of good 
quality, always to administer the food freshly mixed, 
at a uniform temperature, namely, that of breast- 
milk, and for the first month not oftener than every 
two hours and a half during the day, and every four 
hours during the night. On no account should the 
babe be allowed to sleep with the tube of the bottle in 
his mouth, or to suck as often and as long as he likes. 
(See also on Diet in Infancy.) 

About the eighth or ninth month, when the teeth 
usually begin to appear, a gradual change of diet is 
necessary. This should consist chiefly of farinaceous 
preparations, the best of which is, according to our 



I30 DYSPEPSIA. 



experience, N'eave's Farinaceous Food ; afterwards sop 
made with bread which contains no alum, bread-and- 
milk, light puddings, oatmeal porridge, and a little 
mutton broth, beef-tea, or bread soaked in a little 
gravy as it escapes when cutting up a joint of meat. 
Feeding with a spoon, by favouring admixture of 
saliva with the starchy particles, will probably insure 
a more perfect digestion of the food. Till the molar 
teeth appear, however, all preparations of animal food 
should be avoided. After weaning great care should 
be taken, and every kind of food avoided that causes 
irritation or diarrhoea. Children should be fed regu- 
larly, be taught to masticate thoroughly, and not 
allowed to take too active exercise immediately after 
meals. Even thus early, should there be any symp- 
of malnutrition, a small dose (ten to fifteen drops) of 
cod-liver oil may be advantageously given. 

ADULTS. 

For older persons the diet should be digestible, 
nourishing, varied, and sufficiently abundant to meet 
the requirements of each case. As a general rule it 
should include animal food as fat as can be digested, 
once or twice a day ; oysters and other wholesome 
kinds of fish, especially those varieties which are 
richest m phosphorus ; good home-made bread, not 
less than one day old ; puddings of arrowroot, rice, 
sago, tapioca, etc., taken, if preferred, with stewed 
fruit ; various kinds of green vegetables, and mealy 
potatoes, oatmeal, and milk ; good milk is a priceless 



DIET FOR CONSUMPTIVES. 131 

article of diet ; raw eggs, swallowed whole, or beaten 
up with a little cold milk, are strongly recommended ; 
but fresh pork, sausages, veal, fish not having scales, 
pastry, and all articles that give rise to irritability of 
the stomach, nausea, heartburn, eructations, or any 
other symptoms of indigestion, should be avoided. 
If the patient is benefited by its use, he may take a 
moderate allowance of beer or wine. Two or three 
glasses of Carlowitz, Burgundy, Claret, or Hock, 
diluted with water, may in some cases be gi^'en with 
good results. 

Great discrimination should be observed with regard 
to stimulants ; if they flush the face or accelerate the 
pulse they should on no account be allowed. Malt 
liquors are more suitable than strong wine or spirits. 
The English extract of malt affords palatable fat- 
forming material of an unstimulating nature. 

The following dietary is suggested. At 7 or 7.30 
a.m., or even earlier, a tumblerful of warm milk. In 
case of acidity or other forms of indigestion, two 
table-spoonfuls of lime-water may be added to the 
milk ; or if there be much debility, a dessert-spoonful 
of rum may be substituted for the lime-water ; or the 
lime-water and the rum may be alternated as required. 
8.30 to 9.30, Breakfast. Bread-and-butter, and a 
lightly-boiled egg ; or cold boiled or hot broiled bacon, 
or a broiled sole or other kind of fish, and a cup of 
cocoa or black tea. At 11.30 or 12, a glass of cold 
milk, in which a new-laid egg is beaten up. At about 
1.30, Dinner; including a slice of roast mutton or 



132 DYSPEPSIA. 



beef, rich in fat ; or a portion of a fowl, or other light 
meat, with vegetables ; and tapioca, rice, semolina, or 
other milk pudding. A glass of malt liquor may be 
allowed if it do not, as before stated, increase the pulse, 
flush the face, or make the patient feel sleepy and 
heavy. At about 6, a cup of good cocoa, with a sand- 
wich or bread-and-butter. White fish, fowl, or other 
light meat may sometimes be added. Green vegetables 
— water-cresses, lettuce, etc. — may often be allowed 
with great advantage. If anything be desired after 
this meal, a small basin of toast and milk, oatmeal 
porridge, or other easily digestible farinaceous food, 
may be taken at 8 or 9 p.m. But generally a good 
meal taken between six and seven renders this unne- 
cessary. 

Raw Beef Juice, if suitably administered, is a valu- 
able adjunct to the food of the consumptive. Half- 
the quantity produced according to the receipt given 
elsewhere may be allowed for breakfast instead of the 
egg or meat in the above dietary ; and the other half 
at dinner, or instead of cocoa at " tea," according to 
the appetite and digestive power of the patient. 

Beef Pulp has also been given to consumptive 
patients with great advantage. 

The importance of selecting digestible food is evi- 
dent from the fact that tubercles do not arise except 
during a period of imperfect nourishment. By what- 
ever rneans we can promote nutrition, in the same 
ratio the advance of consumption is prevented or re- 
tarded ; an important sign of improvement being an 



FEED CONSUMPTIVES WELL. 133 

increase in the patient's weight. The system is invul- 
nerable to consumption so long as it is well nourished 
by a healthy digestive apparatus. 

'•It is clear, therefore," writes Dr. Chambers, "that 
it is the tendency to tubercle, and not the existing 
tubercle, which we have to fear and to guard against ; 
and that for the successful treatment of consumption 
we must withdraw our minds from the morbid anatomy 
of the locality to the fatal propensity of the constitu- 
tion. I know you are disposed to turn first to the 
lungs. But if we inquire into the histories of those 
who have lived long with vomicae {abscesses) or tuber- 
cle, they are by no means found to have taken special 
care of their chests — they have not coddled or lived 
indoors, in even temperatures, hanging their lives on 
to their thermometers for fear of coughs ; they have 
gone on with their professions or business or work ; 
they have not ' laid a knife to their throat,' but have 
eaten and drunk like other people, and have enjoyed 
the gratification of their appetites. A patient of mine, 
over fifty, with copious pyoptysis {spitting of purulent 
matter) and condensed lungs (of probably a tubercular 
nature) from his youth, has kept hounds, broken his 
bones like other Nimrods, contested county elections, 
sat in Parliament, enjoyed his champagne and other 
good things, but never allows any doctoring 0/ his chest." 
" Leave the respiratory organs alone, and direct 
your thoughts to the organs of nutrition — the stomach 
and bowels, which will receive with thankfulness, and 
return with interest, any care you bestow upon them. 



134 DYSPEPSIA. 



It is truly by aid of the digestive viscera alone that 
consumption can be curable. Medicines addressed to 
other parts may be indirectly useful sometimes, but 
they more commonly impede the recovery ; whereas 
aid judiciously given in this quarter is always bene- 
ficial, and usually successful. Your aim should be to 
get the greatest possible amount of albuminous food 
fully digested and applied to the purpose of the re- 
newal of the body, at the same time that the renewing 
agencies are brought to their highest state of efficiency. 
In this way a healthy cell-renewal takes the place of 
that morbid, imperfect cell-renewal which appears in 
the shape of tubercular matter." — Lectures chiefly 
Clinical. 

Fatty matter, in quantities as large as it can be 
assimilated, has been strongly recommended. The 
late Sir James Simpson observed the healthy appear-- 
ance and freedom from scrofula and consumption of 
the operatives of woollen factories, consequent on the 
oil which in the course of their daily labour finds 
access to the skin. It was also seen that the workpeople 
improved in appearance v/hen engaged in the more 
oily processes, and often lost flesh and strength after 
leaving them. So impressed was Dr. Simpson wath 
the value of oil in the prevention of consumption that 
he laid down rules for its application by inunction. 
He recommended a bland, inodorous olive-oil to be 
applied warm to the whole cutaneous surface, with a 
considerable amount of friction, which renders absorp- 
tion greater. 



COD-LIVER OIL OF VALUE. 135 

Cod-liver Oil may be considered as an item of food, 
and its power in checking emaciation and improving 
the healthy tone of the muscular structures is now 
too well known to require commendation. Some 
believe its usefulness depends on the Iodine and Plios- 
phorus contained in the oil, thus forming a natural 
compound of food and medicine. It may be advan- 
tageously given in scrofulous affections, and trouble- 
some cough, especially if occurring in a family in which 
consumption has been fatal. 

The best time to administer the oil is with, or 
directly after, food. If there be any difficulty in 
retaining the oil, it may be given just as the patient 
lies down to sleep. Tasty accessories will often dis- 
guise the flavour of the oil, so as to prevent nausea. 
But when there exists an insuperable repugnance to 
the internal use of the oil, enemata containing it may 
be tried ; or it may be introduced into the system by 
inunction, or by applying chamois leather soaked in it, 
to the chest, sides, or between the shoulders. If the 
reluctance to take oil cannot be removed by the addi- 
tion of something tasty, a pa^icreatic emulsion may be 
advantageously substituted. This, according to Dr. 
Dobell, if given in tea-spoonful doses every four hours, 
will rapidly cure the disease. 

Besides cod-liver oil, there are other animal fats and 
oils which, ii they can be taken and assimilated, 
are certain to be followed with good results : such 
as rich milk, cream, butter, home-fed fat bacon, and 
other substances rich in fatty matter. Suet boiled in 



i-,6 DYSPEPSIA. 



milk is one of the best substitutes for the oil, and to 
some persons is not repugnant ; its digestibility is in- 
creased if it be made into an emulsion with one of the 
gastric solvents. Cream is often of great value ; to 
prevent its oppressing the stomach, a tea-spoonful of 
cold, strong black tea may be mixed with it. Cream 
is, however, probably inferior to cod -liver oil, and has 
neither the same fattening power nor the same effect 
in producing animal heat. These varieties are men- 
tioned so that in the event of a change being desired, 
one may be substituted for another, as circumstances 
indicate. 

Cod-liver Oil should be regarded as food rather 
than medicine, although the minute amount of Iodine 
and Phosphorus it contains may account for some of 
its curative virtues. It is specially valuable in the 
various forms of Scrofula^ and in all diseases which 
require fatty substances a3 food, and Iodine as a 
remedy. 

In the treatment of Consumption \\. stands pre- 
eminent above other remedies by almost universal 
consent ; for when given in suitable cases it checks 
emaciation and supplies the deficiency of animal 
heat. 

The value of cod-liver oil is often very marked in 
the sequelse of many acute diseases or inflammations 
occurring in middle-aged and in old persons, in whom 
the reparative powers are less active than in 
children ; also in the after-effects of acute' fevers in 
children who have suffered, previously to such attacks 



SPHERE OF COD-LIVER OIL. 137 

from impoverished health. Scrofula, rickets, chorea, 
etc., are generally much benefited by the adminis- 
tration of cod-liver oil. Chronic rheumatism and 
gout, chronic bronchitis, chronic skin diseases, and 
the degenerative diseases of the aged, are all more or 
less modified by the employment of this agent. 

Cod-liver oil should, however, not be administered 
indiscriminately. (i) It is generally inadmissible 
during the persistence of acute febrile symptoms, 
congestion, hcemoptysis, or any active form of 
disease ; digestion being then impaired, and the 
mucous membrane irritable, the oil is only likely to 
increase the disorder; not till the disease subsides, 
the pulse falls, and the hectic ceases, can it be of 
value. The sphere of cod-liver oil is to supply animal 
heat, to fatten the system, and arrest tissue waste : 
this is best accomplished when active morbid processes 
and local irritation have subsided, for then the system 
is in a condition to appropriate a larger amount of 
nourishment. (2) Some caution is also necessary to 
be observed in the administration of oil to obviate 
nausea or eructations. Such effects generally result 
from the quantity or quality of the oil. The large 
quantity of oil taken in some cases occasions disorder 
of the digestive mucous membrane, or causes it to 
pass off with the evacuations. The appearance of 
any oil unchanged in the evacuations is a sign that 
the quantity given is too large to be digested. We 
generally recommend it, at first, in teaspoonful doses 
twice a day, with, or immediately after, food ; if the 

K 



138 DYSPEPSIA. 



Stomach be intolerant of it, a teaspoonful, or for 
young children ten or twelve drops, once a day. If 
there be still difficulty in retaining the oil, we 
prescribe it just as the patient is lying down to sleep. 
In cases of extreme irritability of the stomach, cod- 
liver oil may be introduced into the system by in- 
unction. 

The disagreeable effects of oil, and the repugnance 
felt towards it, have often been caused by inferior 
and unpalatable kinds. It should be as free from 
smell, taste, and colour as possible, thus showing 
its careful and recent preparation. Freshness is of 
great importance to its dietetic efficacy. Probably 
the best method of rendering the oil palatable is to 
have it made up in bread, as it is then scarcely tasted. 
The proper proportion is two to four table-spoonfuls of 
the oil to one pound of dough. Patients to whom we 
have recommended this method of taking the oil, 
assure us that, while pleasant and digestible, it is as 
efficacious taken in this as in any other way. 

Coffee or milk forms a good vehicle for the oil. 
Some find the taste removed by eating herring, 
sardine, or anchovy with it. The juice of half an orange 
may be squeezed into a wine-glass, the requisite 
quantity of oil poured on the top, and the juice of 
the other half orange carefully squeezed on the top 
of the oil. Orange and ginger wine or claret are 
also vehicles for cod-liver oil. The oil should be 
poured upon the wine, so that it does not touch the 
glass, but floats as a large^globule ; in this way it may 



DIET FOR RHEUMATISM. 139 

be swallowed untasted. A itw morsels of agreeable 
food should then be eaten. Small pieces of ice 
in each dose of oil also render it almost tasteless. 
Another plan to obviate taste and nausea is to take 
a pinch of salt immediately before and after the oil. 
Sometimes heating the oil is a good plan, as it renders 
it more fluid, and less liable to disagree with the 
patient. It is also beneficial to omit taking it for a 
day or two occasionally. The glass should be care- 
fully washed after use, and the oil kept in a cool 
place. 

Diet for Rheumatism. 

In acute rheumatism the maintenance of a steady, 
equable temperature is of far greater importance than 
absolute purity of air, or even strict attention to 
diet. Still, the eating of much nitrogenous food 
really retards recovery, and if resumed too soon 
during convalescence will cause relapse. It may 
be annoyimg to the patient to be refused the meat 
to which he has been accustomed, and for which he 
longs, but the annoyance must be borne as the lesser 
of two evils. For if meat be taken in any form, solid 
or liquid, it becomes converted into lactic acid, the 
excess of which is by many supposed to be diagnostic 
of rheumatism. At any rate, the acidity in the per- 
spiration and urine, which is characteristic of this 
disorder, is markedly increased. And the more fleshy 
and red the meat, the worse it is for the patient. 
A non-nitrogenous diet, except in broken-down, dcbi- 



I40 DYSPEPSIA. 



litated constitutions, or where serious nervous or 
cardiac complications exist, has been found very- 
successful in rheumatic fever. But while this diet 
diminishes the formation of acid, and lessens cardiac 
power, thus rendering the pulse smaller and softer, 
this second effect renders extreme caution necessary 
in its adoption, when either heart or brain are seriously 
affected. 

Dr. Parkes has given biscuits made in the following 
manner, with very good results, and with satisfaction 
to the patients. " Butter was melted in a jug placed 
in a warm-water bath, and the liquid oil was poured 
off. Arrowroot cakes were made with a portion of 
this butter, and a little sugar was added." Sweetened 
arrowroot or other farinaceous jellies are also accept- 
able. 

Farinaceous food is not so readily and abundantlj' 
converted into the offending acid ; this, therefore, con- 
stitutes the only appropriate diet. During the fever 
it should be restricted to water, milk and soda-water 
in equal quantities, barley-water, gruel, arrowroot, 
rice, semolina, corn-flour, panada, and other prepara- 
tions of bread, oatmeal porridge, mashed potatoes, etc. 
The cases which recover most speedily and satisfac- 
torily are those where the patient has been kept almost 
at starvation point ; where, whatever the appetite, what- 
ever the clamour for animal food, nothing is given but 
" spoon food." Even when the pain is gone, and all 
that appears to be requisite is the recovery of flesh 
and strength, nothing is gained by a speedy return to 



RHEUMATISM.— GOUT. 141 

ordinary diet ; in fact, relapse is rendered probable by 
its adoption. Mutton broth, beef-tea, and other liquid 
or semi-liquid preparations, and next light puddings, 
preparations of bread, white fish and fowl, must for a 
time constitute the transitional diet. Malt liquors 
in acute rheumatism, sweet wines, and much sugar 
should always be avoided. But alcoholic stimulants 
may be needed in depression from severe cardiac im- 
plication. Lemon juice may be taken freely. 

In Chronic Rheumatism the diet should be gene- 
rous but easy of digestion, as attacks are often occa- 
sioned by disorders of the stomach. Beer and strong 
or sweet wines must be avoided. Cod-liver oil should 
be given to nourish and warm the system. 

We may add that a sufferer from chronic rheuma- 
tism should wear red flannel next the skin, or 
over a cotton garment, the thickness of the flannel 
being regulated by the state of weather, and he should 
have plenty of rest and bask a good deal in the sun. 

Diet for Gout. 

CuUen has remarked that gout seldom attacks 
persons employed in constant physical labour, or those 
who live chiefly on vegetable diet. Subsequent ob- 
servation has confirmed the truth of this remark. It 
appears to be jjrobablc that gout is occasioned by an 
accumulation of imperfectly changed nitrogenous 
matter, due either to an excessive nitrogenous supply, 
or to a defective transforming capacity, or to an arrest 
Qf transformation by alcoholic drinks, or to an imper- 



142 DYSPEPSIA. 



feet transformation of some material in the alcoholic 
drink. For there is found to be an accumulation of 
oxidizable materials which are not naturally assimi- 
lated, and do not become urea. Hence they remain 
in the system in the form of uric acid, which is con- 
vertible into urate of soda, the characteristic deposit 
of gout. At any rate, experience shows that in some 
subjects the disorder attends a highly nitrogenized 
diet, sedentary habits, immoral self-indulgence, and 
a free indulgence in the heavier kinds of wine and 
beer. Even intellectual pursuits, by working the 
brain without exercise of the limbs, contribute to the 
development of gout. There is therefore, perhaps, no 
disease in which properly chosen and well-regulated 
diet and hygiene are of greater importance. 

Those, then, who inherit a predisposition to this 
disorder, or who exhibit premonitory symptoms, or • 
who have actually suffered from it, should abstain from 
rich living. The children of gouty parents should be 
accustomed to eat a large proportion of vegetables, so 
as to acquire a taste for them, and be habituated to 
the digestion of them. Oatmeal porridge for break- 
fast, butter-milk for drink, and a very moderate pro- 
portion of meat at any time, should form their diet 
while growing. When years of maturity are reached 
the diet should be simple, but nourishing ; it should 
also be limited in nitrogenous material, consisting 
largely of vegetables, especially if the habits of life be 
inactive. Meat should be eaten only once a day; 
soles, whiting, and cod, mutton, tender beef, fowl, 



DIET FOR GOUT. 143 

and game, are suitable. Salmon, veal, pork, cheese, 
and highly-seasoned or made dishes, pastry, greasy or 
twice-cooked meat, raw vegetables, articles which 
cause eructation or other symptoms of dyspepsia, and 
anything likely to lead the patient to eat more than 
is strictly moderate, must be avoided. The gouty 
person should be even more abstemious with regard 
to drink than to food, altogether avoiding sweet beer, 
strong and sweet wines. Port and brown sherry are to 
be particularly eschewed. The lighter wines, such as 
claret, burgundy, hock, or dry champagne, may be 
taken by some persons in moderation ; but if the gouty 
predisposition be established even these will bring on 
a paroxysm. Stout, porter, and old ales are almost as 
injurious as port. The lighter beers act in the same 
manner as the lighter wines. Pure spirits, however, 
diluted with water, do not disagree with those who 
suffer from gout. Still, it would be wise to make the 
experiment of total abstinence from alcohol for three 
or four months, except a little weak claret and water 
at dinner. If at the end of the period weight is not 
lost, the habit of abstinence should be permanently 
adopted. If alcohol be recommended by the medical 
adviser, a small wine-glassful of pure spirit in a bottle 
of soda-water may be taken once a day, either at 
dinner or bedtime. Those advanced in life, and those 
whose health has been much enfeebled, may need 
stimulants ; but each case must be considered by 
itself, and treated according to its speciality. 



144 DYSPEPSIA. 



Diet for Gravel and Stone. 

Patients having a predisposition to the formation of 
stone, especially if they have passed gravel with their 
urine, require medical treatment and careful super- 
vision to correct the tendency; for although such 
treatment will not remove a stone of any size, Homoeo- 
pathic remedies will aid in the expulsion of sand or 
gravel, and also correct the tendency to such forma- 
tions. But in addition to the employment of medicines, 
attention to regimen will be of considerable service. 
A reference to the varieties of stone, and what pro- 
duces it, will indicate those ingredients of food that 
should be avoided. 

There are several kinds of vesical calculus ; but the 
most common are the uric or lithic, the phosphatic, 
and the oxalic. 

Uric acid forms the nucleus of most urinary concre- 
tions, and many entirely consist of it. The small red 
grains, like cayenne pepper, called red gravel, and the 
brown lumps of stone, are due to the excess of this 
acid. It exists in a normal condition of the urine, but 
is onlydeposited when excessive. This excess is closely 
related to the diathesis of gout. Indeed, tlie uric 
acid condition often alternates in the same individuals 
with gout ; even in generations this may be observed, 
gout manifesting itself in one, gravel in the second, and 
gout again in the third. This is the most common 
variety of stone, and may occur at any age. The 
great object, then, in treating this disease must be 



GRAVEL AND STONE. 145 

the correction of the diathesis and the prevention 
of the deposit of uric acid, where this diathesis 
is known to exist. Where gout is known to exist 
in a family, and gravel is at any time observed 
in the urine, preventive measures should at once 
be taken, without waiting for the actual presence 
of those symptoms which only occur at late periods 
of the disease. All then that has been said in other 
parts of this work on the dietetic treatment of rheu- 
matism and gout may in all cases be appropriately 
considered with reference to stone. Indeed the strict 
observance of precautionary regimen is the more 
urgent in this case, inasmuch as stone is more painful 
and dangerous than either gout or rheumatism. 

Phosphatic salts exist in the urine when in a healthy 
condition, but are then held in solution. Should 
the urine, however, be deprived of its normal acidity 
by inflammation of the bladder or kidneys, due to an 
anrcmic or broken-down state of the constitution, 
phosphatic gravel may be deposited. It may also 
form a concretion around some irritating substance 
in the bladder, as a uric acid stone. This form occurs 
chiefly in the aged. 

Oxalate of lime never occurs in healthy urine, it is 
always a morbid product. J'roperly speaking, there 
is no gravel or sediment ; the particles of oxalate float 
as cr}'stals in the urine, or subside if it be allowed to 
stand, but not in large quantity. When observed in 
children this form of gravel occurs in those that have 
been brought up in the country, but have been underfed, 



146 DYSPEPSIA. 



are pale, feeble, and suffer from disturbed sleep, acidity, 
etc. It seems to be occasioned by their eating too 
large a quantity of acid fruits and bad vegetables, such 
as rhubarb, sorrel, or tomatoes, and drinking hard un- 
boiled water. It does not appear to be necessary that 
the food taken should contain oxalic acid, for by fer- 
mentation other organic acids taken into the system 
may be converted into the oxalic. When the oxalate 
is found in the urine of adults it appears to be con- 
sequent on feeble powers of assimilation and ex- 
haustion of the nervous system from overwork, 
anxiety, or excesses \ on frequent attacks of gout, 
or on exposure to damp cold, want of fresh air, and 
a low unvaried diet. 

In the treatment of these different forms of the 
disease, it is obvious that first and foremost all 
avoidable causes must be removed ; high living,, 
alcoholic liquors, insufficient exercise on the one hand, 
overwork, anxiety, and excesses of all kinds on 
the other. Occasional abstinence from animal food 
for a time is advantageous, except when the oxalic 
diathesis exists, then it is necessary to allow a 
generous animal diet of simply dressed and plain 
nourishing meat. Restriction must be placed upon 
(i) sugar, in whatever form or combination this 
substance is presented ; (2) fatty 7natters — butter, 
cream, and fat meat, whether simply cooked or in 
the form of pastry; (3) alcoholic beverages, especially 
in the form of sherry, port, and the stronger wines, 
strong beer, champagne, etc. Abstinence from these 



DIET FOR GRAVEL. 147 

substances is recommended on the ground that the 
labour of the liver will thus be greatly lightened, 
and correspondingly the vicarious work of the kidneys 
will be diminished. Succulent vegetables and fruits 
when cooked should be preferred. Lemon-juice is 
corrective. But a small quantity of pure spirits 
and water taken with substantial meals does 
not usually disagree, if there be any condition 
that indicates the necessity for taking them. Tea 
and coffee must also be taken in moderation. 
Asparagus may be eaten freely in spring, for this 
vegetable has a great action on the digestive system, 
and removes effete injurious products by the kidneys. 
But rhubarb, sorrel, apples, pears, and other acid raw 
fruit and vegetables should be avoided. Water-cresse 
and lettuces are the least objectionable, because 
they correct any scorbutic tendency of the blood 
and act as sedatives to the urinary organs. Milk 
diet and frequent draughts of pure soft water are 
also recommended. Filtered rain or distilled water, 
rendered alkaline by soda or caustic potash, has a 
great solvent power, and may be taken to the extent 
of one or two pints daily. Indeed, removal to a 
locality where pure soft water can be procured is often 
alone curative. 

The explanation of this value of water treatment is 
that from drinking but little fluid the urine becomes 
concentrated and acid, and thus irritates the mucous 
membrane ; while drinking more water the urine is 
diluted. And not only is there a real and substantial 



148 DYSPEPSIA. 



benefit through the diminution which the water efifects 
as a diluent in the irritating qualities of the urine, 
but a still greater benefit is realised in the flushing 
and cooling of the congested liver which is usually- 
associated with the state denominated lithiasis, and in 
a larger proportion of cases stands in the relation of 
cause to effect. It is quite open to question, whether 
the alkaline waters that are frequently recommended 
do not confer benefit as diluents rather than as medi- 
caments. At any rate, we know that the free drink- 
ing of pure soft water is of priceless advantage. 

Diet for Dysentery. 

In Dysentery, Diarrhoea, inflammation of the 
bowels, and Enteric fever, it is essential that 
scrupulous attention be paid to the diet. By main- 
taining the recumbent posture, and by abstinence 
from all but the simplest food, the bowels are kept at 
rest, and opportunity is afforded for soothing inflam- 
matory symptoms. The food selected should consist 
only of articles which are known to exert the least 
stimulant and irritant action on the mucous mem- 
brane and muscular fibres. Such are cold water, 
toast-water, gum-water, barley-water, milk, soda- 
water and milk, isinglass, rice, arrowroot, and cocoa ; 
then come broths, ripe grapes, and other liquid forms 
of food ; all to be given cold or cool. When recovery 
has considerably advanced, stale bread, eggs, white 
fish (particularly sole and whiting), white-fleshed 
poultry, fresh game, and tender meat may be taken 



DIET FOR CHOLERA. 149 

in the order recited. But the return to solid food 
must be gradual. Acid fruits, succulent vegetables, 
salted, dried, and smoked meats, must be avoided ; a 
mealy potato may be allowed with caution. In 
chronic cases beef-tea and other animal broths may be 
taken ; milk and soda-water, or milk and lime-water, 
should be given according to the requirements of the 
case. Frequently, too, a change to a dry, 'mild, 
equable climate is necessary. 

Diet for Cholera. 
During Prevalence. — Whenever Cholera is epi- 
demic, we advise everj'body to be very careful of 
their health, to be scrupulous about sanitary- and 
hygienic matters, and to take only good, plain, 
wholesome food. Every one should abstain from any 
article of food (whether animal or vegetable) which 
may have previously disordered his stomach, no matter 
how nutritious, digestible, or safe to others ; and avoid 
all manner of excess in eating and drinking. A light, 
unstimulating diet should be taken, but food difficult 
of digestion eschewed— such as pickled salmon, lob- 
sters, raw vegetables, sour and unripe fruits, cucumber, 
salads, pickles, etc. Wholesome varieties of ripe 
fruits, whether in their natural or cooked state, and 
vegetables plainly cooked, may be taken in moderation 
by those with whom they agree. Water for all do- 
mestic purposes should be boiled and allowed to cool ; 
drinking-water ought to be filtered as well as boiled, 
as it is quite possible it may hold in solution the ma- 
terial poison of cholera, which would be destroyed by 



i^o DYSPEPSIA. 



boiling and filtering. Heavy suppers are unsafe, for 
if a person is overtaken by the disease in the middle 
of the night with a full stomach, the case is generally 
a serious one. 

During Attack. — In every case of cholera, com- 
plete abstinence from even the very lightest kind of 
aliment should be inexorably enforced from the mo- 
ment that the nature of the disease is ascertained till 
convalescence has become decided ; in the observance 
of this rule consists the very essence of successful 
treatment. The plan of complete abstinence from 
food has not invariably been adopted by all ranks of 
the medical profession ; and this may account to some 
extent for the excessive mortality from cholera during 
some epidemics. Relapse, with alarming effects, has 
followed from the administration of a little beef-tea or 
brandy-and-water, or milk-and-water. When favour- 
able reaction has once fairly begun, brandy, beef-tea, 
or even chicken-broth, instead of stimulating the 
patient back to health, will only arrest reaction and 
send him back to death. It is egregious folly to 
attempt to force the exhausted alimentary organs to 
perform a physical impossibility, viz., prematurely to 
digest food. None is required, and stimulants are 
worse than useless. Ice may be given freely, to be 
dissolved in the mouth or swallowed ; iced Avater is also 
refreshing ; enemata of warm milk, often repeated, 
are beneficial. When the favourable symptoms are 
decided, farinaceous preparations may be given, but 
only in small quantities. In due time broths and 



DIET FOR CONSTIPATION. 



soups may follow, but great care must be taken not 
to arrest recovery by injudicious feeding. 

Diet for Constipation". 

By constipation is meant the condition due to a 
collection or impaction of excrement in the rectum — 
the residuum of the various processes concerned in the 
nourishment of the body, — occasioning irregularity in 
the evacuations from the bowels, increase in their con- 
sistence, and often a sense of fulness and tension in 
the bowels and surrounding parts. It is that which 
is consequent on the imperfect discharge of intestinal 
function, which attends derangement of the whole 
system, and not of the intestinal canal alone. But 
reference is not herein made to the deficient evacua- 
tion, which is due to an anaemic condition or to old 
age. 

In very many cases costiveness depends on some 
faulty habit in the patient, the regulation of which 
will probably suffice to remove the inconvenience. 
Sedentary habits, drinking too much astringent wine, 
such as port or Burgundy, or black tea, dissipation, 
the exclusive use of white bread, taking food too dry 
and destitute of succulent vegetables, neglect of the 
calls of nature, and the habitual use of aperient medi- 
cine, are faults which induce constipation. If these be 
corrected the disorder will generally disappear. But 
more precise information may be given with regard to 
food, for costiveness may to a great extent be treated 
by judicious dieting of the patient. 



152 DYSPEPSIA. 



All superfluous food that has the property of solidi- 
fying the excretions and arresting evacuation must be 
relinquished. Meals should be taken with regularity 
three times a day, animal food eaten sparingly, but 
succulent vegetables and ripe fruits freely. Many 
persons eat too much and too often. If the stomach 
be overloaded the food will be imperfectly digested ; 
there will consequently be a larger quantity of faeces, 
and thus the bowels will be overloaded also. Franklin's 
rule, *' to leave off with an appetite," is a good one. By 
doing this, in ten minutes the appetite will have 
departed. Coarse Scotch oatmeal porridge, made in 
the Scotch way, by adding the meal gradually to the 
water till thick enough, and eaten with treacle, should 
form part of the breakfast. Brown bread should be 
preferred to while. It should not be eaten new ; it 
may be taken for a fortnight at a time, and then 
temporarily changed for white bread known to ' be 
free from alum. If brown bread be not eaten ex- 
clusively, a little should be taken with every meal ; 
its effects will thus be more uniformly distributed 
through the alimentary canal than if only taken 
occasionally. White bread, when eaten, should be 
stale ; hot rolls, muffins, crumpets, tea-cakes, and 
spongy buttered toast are not allowable. Bread and 
potatoes, and indeed all farinaceous food, requires to 
be thoroughly masticated and mixed with saliva, as, 
correctly speaking, digestion begins in the mouth. Of 
meats, beef and mutton, chicken and game, may be 
eaten in moderation. Bacon is the most soothing of 



DIET FOR CONSTIPATIOX. 



fats to the digestive canal, and may be eaten freely. 
This, or two tea-spoonfuls of salad oil taken at bed- 
time, will prevent that drying and hardening of the 
contents of the bowels which causes impaction and 
consequent inconvenience. Pork and veal are most 
indigestible meats ; also boiled salt meats, wild duck, 
and goose. 

Green vegetables, such as spinach, turnip greens, 
Brussels sprouts, green artichoke, and asparagus, also 
the heads of cauliflower and broccoli, may be eaten 
freely. Lettuce, water-cress, and dandelion are also 
useful, eaten raw. Care must be taken that potatoes 
are thoroughly boiled and mealy, while new, hard, 
waxy ones must be avoided altogether. Roast 
apples, stewed pippins, and stewed prunes are much 
better than pastry. Figs can be eaten, if moist and 
fresh, or in a pudding. Rhubarb, gooseberries, and 
other ripe fruits in season, or preserved, may be taken 
freely. Condiments, pickles, melted butter, highly 
seasoned sauces, woody vegetables, such as celery, 
and cheese, must be avoidded by all costive subjects. 
Of wines, the white sorts are best, such as Chablis 
Sauterne, Capri, and Somlau. Red and brandied wine 
and spirits should be eschewed, especially by those 
troubled with piles. A light wholesome ale may be 
taken by persons of outdoor active habits, but not by 
the gouty or those suffering from piles. Curds and 
whey are perhaps suitable when the gastric juice is 
deficient, as the previous conversion of milk into 
curds relieves the stomach of its first digestive process 



154 DYSPEPSIA. 



For tea and coffee, cocoa made from the nibs may be 
substituted with great advantage. Pure, soft water is 
a valuable accessory both as a drink and for use by 
enema. A tumbler of water taken while dressing 
is very serviceable, or some may prefer a drink of 
weak clove-water the first thing in the morning, — a 
tumbler of water made spicy by pouring boiling 
water overnight on a few cloves, and letting it stand 
till morning. 

Diet in Worm Affections. 

It should be distinctly understood that these 
parasites are not found when the alimentary canal 
is in a healthy condition ; they require thick 
mucus for their home and nourishment, and unless 
this be secreted they cannot exist. There can 
be little doubt that their presence occasions exces- 
sive secretion, but there must be a previous secretion 
in which they are developed. In strumous constitu- 
tions there is a tendency to this excessive secretion. 
Food in a semi-assimilated state also favours their 
development. When worms are known to exist, 
measures should not only be taken for their expulsion, 
but also for the correction of that unhealthy condition 
of the alimentary canal which favours their existence. 
Injections expel them, but only medicinal and hygienic 
treatment can be relied on for improving the patient's 
health, and preventing the reappearance of the parasite. 
Open waters should not be drunk o: used in the pre-: 



DIET FOR WORMS. 155 

paration of food without being previously boiled or 
filtered ; raw or underdone meat, especially pork, 
ham, bacon, or sausages, should be avoided ; fruits 
and vegetables, such as lettuce, watercress, etc., eaten 
raw, should be first washed in salt and water and 
then fresh water and examined ; for by eating raw 
unwashed vegetables the eggs of worms find entrance 
into the body. Cooks and butchers are more liable 
to be affected with tapeworm than other persons ; and 
in countries where uncooked flesh, fowl, or fish is con- 
sumed, intestinal worms abound. 

To correct the excessive and morbid intestinal 
secretion considerable changes of diet are also 
generally necessary. The food should be taken only 
at regular hours, and selected with special reference 
to its digestibility. It may include properly cooked 
animal food — mutton, beef, fowl, and white fish. 
Cakes, pastry, sweetmeats, sweet made dishes, new, 
waxy, half-cooked potatoes, butter, veal, and pork 
must be forbidden. Salt, as a condiment, should be 
taken freely with the food, but salted meats should be 
avoided. 

The following scale of diet is recommended by 
Dr. Eustace Smith for a child over two years of age, 
to be given in four separate meals in the course of the 
day : — 

" First MeaL—YxQ.^\ milk diluted with a third part 
of lime-water. A small slice of toast, or of dry stale 
bread. 

" Second Meal. — A small mutton chop or a slice of 



156 DYSPEPSIA. 



roast beef or mutton, without fat ; dry toast or stale 
bread. 

" Third Meal. — A cup of beef-tea or mutton broth, 
free from grease ; the yolk of a lightly-boiled egg ; 
dry toast. 

" Fourth Meal {if necessary). — The same as the first. 
It is not always easy to persuade children to submit 
readily to the deprivation of starchy food, for which, 
and especially for potatoes, there is often in these 
cases a great craving. So long, however, as a 
slimy appearance of the evacuations continues to 
be observed, the above diet should, if possible, be 
adhered to. When potatoes are once more allowed, 
they must be well boiled, and should be afterwards 
carefully mashed with a spoon. Steaming is generally 
the best method of cooking potatoes. Gravy may be 
poured over them before they are eaten. In cases 
where the appetite is lost, and there is di-^gust for 
food, children often show an especial reluctance to 
take meat, which it is very difficult to overcome. A 
small bird, as a lark or a snipe, will, however, often 
tempt them, for their fancy is pleased by the idea of 
eating a whole bird, and this means frequently succeeds 
when all others fail. 

" The above scale of diet need not be literally fol- 
lowed in the case of all children troubled with worms, 
but may be varied according to circumstances. In 
general, three meals are better than four ; but which- 
ever arrangement is adopted, no food should be 
allowed between the meals. 



DIABETES. 157 



Diet for Diabetes. 

The best treatment of this dire disease is at present 
open to question ; but it is agreed on all hands that 
it involves very careful attention to diet. For the 
most remarkable, and at the same time the most im- 
portant pathological character of diabetes, is the mis- 
appropriation of food required for the nourishment of 
the body, by converting it in a very direct manner into 
a form of sugar, which is excreted in the urine. It 
therefore becomes essential to deal both with the dis- 
eased condition of the secreting organs, most probably 
the liver, and with the character of the food from which 
the sugar is secreted. If the food be such that it 
cannot be converted into sugar by the diseased glands, 
organically diseased or functionally disordered, it is 
obvious that great gain is effected, not only by the sup- 
pression of a symptom, but also in the correction of a 
condition ; for the urine being less saccharine, the 
blood is less saccharine, less impoverished, less unfitted 
for the purposes of nutrition. 

For the dietetic treatment of diabetes we give the 
preference to Dr. Donkin's method. As soon as the 
actual existence of the disorder is known, an exclusive 
regimen of skim milk is prescribed. And it must be 
exclusive so long as any traces of sugar are found in 
the urine. All cream must be very carefully removed. 
Beginning with four to six pints on the first day, the 
quantity must be increased gradually to from eight 
to twelve pints daily, according to the age, sex, 



158 DYSPEPSIA. 



size, and condition of the patient. In ?io instance 
should twelve pints be exceeded; and if more than seven 
or eight be given, the remainder should be taken at 
separate meals in the form of curd produced by essence 
of rennet. The skim milk may be taken cold, or at 
about 1 00°, but // must not be boiled. Its specific 
gravity should never be below i'o35 ; it is better at 
I "040. The daily allowance must be divided into 
regular meals. The curative power of this skim-milk 
diet is altogether lost if anything be added to it. 
The abstinence thus imposed is unquestionably very 
trying to the patient, but it is the condition on which 
his life is lengthened. For his encouragement it may 
be recorded that Dr. Donkin affirms from his ample 
experience that, provided there are no complications, 
great relief, if not cure, may be expected from this 
treatment. As a general rule, it will remove the 
sugar from the urine, and completely remove the 
disease in from twelve days to five or six weeks, if 
only the hydrocarbons of the food are changed into 
sugar, and in some cases if the albuminates are also 
thus converted. If this stage is somewhat far ad- 
vanced, and the disease is of long standing, and 
attended with much emaciation, it will be arrested in 
its course and held in check, though not absolutely 
cured. It should, however, be remarked, that if after 
the expiration of a week there is no reduction of the 
specific gravity and sugar of the urine, the disease is 
not amenable to skim milk or any other kind of treat- 
ment. On the other hand, if the symptoms are 



DIABETES. 159 



ameliorated, and the patient gains strength, there is 
much encouragement to proceed ; and when the treat- 
ment has been successful, the skim-milk diet should 
be rigorously continued from a fortnight to six weeks 
after the disappearance of sugar from the urine, that 
convalescence may be confirmed. 

Great stress must also be laid on the careful selec- 
tion of ingredients in the transitional diet to be 
adopted when the exclusiveness of skim-milk diet 
may be lessened, and some approach to ordinary fare 
may be permitted. Skim milk and curds must still 
be staple articles ; but, in addition, one or two mode- 
rate meals of lightly-cooked lean chop or steak, or of 
roast mutton or beef, with green, non-starchy vegeta- 
bles, are allowed. The vegetables which Dr. Donkin 
thinks may be permitted are spinach, lettuce, endive, 
mustard and cress, the young leaves of fiasturiiuins, 
the green leaves of scallions, the tops of radishes, 
greens, turnip-greens, French beans and scarlet run- 
ners in a very young condition before seed is formed. 
These are simply not forbidden as highly pernicious, 
whether it is judicious to take them is another matter. 
Beef-tea and mutton broth, from which the fat has 
been removed after cooling, and without barley or 
vegetables, except the green leaves of the leek, may 
also be taken in moderate quantity once daily. Should 
the progress be favourable, and the urine continue 
free from sugar, the following fish may be allowed 
at the principal meal, which should be early in the 
day, — cod, ling, whiting, haddock, and skate. Tiieir 



i6o DYSPEPSIA. 



livers, however, must be avoided, as also must oysters, 
salmon, salmon-trout, herrings, and other oily fish. 
In fact, all fatty or oily substances, and all vegetable 
articles of food and drink containing starch and sugar, 
must be avoided with the most scrupulous care, for 
relapse at this stage will frequently prove serious if 
not intractable. The chief articles of food prohibited 
are fat, oils, bacon, pork, butter, cream, milk, cheese, 
and yolk of eggs, white or brown bread, pastry, flour, 
in every form and any quantity, macaroni, vermicelli, 
rice, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, peas, pea-meal, beans, 
bean-meal; Indian coi-n-flour, potatoes, full-grown 
French beans and scarlet runners, turnips, carrots, 
parsnips, artichokes, cauliflower, cabbages, Brussels 
sprouts, asparagus, seakalc, cucumber, vegetable mar- 
row, and all kinds of fruit in any form, except olives 
in pickle. All saccharine drinks must also be avoided, 
including ale, beer, stout, porter, wines ; if alcoholic 
drinks be necessary^ the diabetic may have the very 
best pale French brandy, or finest Scotch whisky, or 
good claret or Carlo witz, but they are generally objec- 
tionable. Cocoa free from fat and sugar, tea or coffee 
without sugar, may be allowed for breakfast. The 
period during which it will be necessary to adhere to 
this transitional diet varies very much. 

A more permanent dietary is developed out of the 
transitional by the addition of a much greater variety 
of animal and vegetable food. But pork, bacon, and 
cheese, bread, pastry, and substances into which flour 
enters, all starchy products, and sugar in every form, 



DIAB-ETES.—FAVY'S DIETARY. i6i 

must still be most carefully avoided. Again and 
again does Dr. Donkin repeat the caution that indul- 
gence in prohibited articles, at least before a long and 
indefinable period has elapsed after convalescence, 
will most certainly be followed by a return of the 
disease, which then becomes more intractable than on 
its first invasion. 

Dr. Pavy does not approve of an exclusive skim- 
milk diet, but in his work "On the Nature and 
Treatment of Diabetes," he gives the following 
dietary. 

Patients may eat. — Butcher's meat of all kinds ex- 
cept liver, ham, bacon, or other smoked, salted, dried, 
or cured meats. Poultry, game, shell-fish, and fish of 
all kinds, fresh, salted, or cured. Animal soups not 
thickened, beef-tea, and broths. 

The almond, bran, or gluten substitute for ordinary 
bread; eggs dressed in any way, cheese, cream- 
cheese, butter, cream, greens, spinach, turnip- 
tops, *turnips, ^French beans, *Brussels sprouts, 
*cauliflo\ver,*broccoli, *cabbage, *asparagus, *seakale, 
*vegetable marrow, mushrooms, water-cress, mustard 
and cress, cucumber, lettuce, endive, radishes, celery, 
vinegar, oil, pickles, jelly, flavoured but not sweet- 
ened, savoury jelly, blancmange made with cream 
and not milk, custard made without sugar, nuts of 
any description, except chestnuts, olives. 

• Those marked with an asterisk may only be eaten in mo- 
derate quantities, and should be boiled in a large quantity of 
water. 



1 62 DYSPEPSIA. 



Must avoid eating. — Sugar in any form, wheaten 
bread and ordinary biscuits of all kinds, and rice, 
arrowroot, sago, tapioca, macaroni, vermicelli, pota- 
toes, carrots, parsnips, beetroot, peas, Spanish onions, 
pastry and puddings of all kinds ; fruit of all kinds, 
fresh and preserved. 

May drink. — Tea, coffee, cocoa from nibs, dry 
sherry, claret, dry Sauterne, Burgundy, Chablis, hock, 
brandy and spirits that have not been sweetened, soda- 
water, Burton bitter ale, all in moderate quantity. 

Must avoid drinking — Milk, except sparingly, stout, 
ales mild and old, porter and stout, cider, all sweet 
wines, sparkling wines, port wine, unless sparingly, 
liqueurs. 

Dr. Chambers, however, quotes with approval the 
following list of eatables compiled by M. Bouchardat, 
Professor of Hygiene in the University of Paris, who 
has studied the subject of Diabetes ; and adds, " The 
menu has not been improved by any subsequent 
writers on the subject. 

Injurious. — Sugar, bread of any kind, or pastry ; 
rice, maize, and other starchy grains ; potatoes, arrow- 
root, tapioca, among root products ; sago among piths ; 
among manufactured starches, macaroni, vermicelli, 
and semolina ; of vegetable seeds, peas and beans of 
all sorts, and chestnuts ; radishes, turnips, beetroot, 
carrots ; all preserved fruits, apples and pears ; honey, 
milk, beer, cider, sweet and sparkling wines, lemon- 
ades, and such like sweetened acid drinks. 

Permissible. — Meat of all kinds, brown or white, 



DIABETES.— BOUCHARDATS DIETARY. 163 

boiled, roast, or grilled, and seasoned with any sauce 
pleasing to the palate, provided there be no flour or 
sugar in it ; all sorts of fish, shell-fish, and lobsters, 
eggs, cream and cheese, spinach, endive, lettuce, sorrel, 
asparagus, hop tops, artichokes, French beans, Brus- 
sels sprouts, cabbage (the last very good with pickled 
pork or bacon). 

Salads of cress, endive, American cress, corn-salad, 
dandelion, lettuce, with a full allowance of oil, and 
hard-boiled eggs. 

Fresh vegetable gluten, i.e., dough with the starch 
washed out, may be made into an agreeable dish, with 
grated Parmesan or Gruy^re cheese and butter ; an- 
ehovy and Ravigote butter. For dessert, olives ; on 
high days and holidays, when the patient has begun 
to improve, some fresh summer fruit, of course with- 
out sugar. The wearing hunger may be much ap- 
peased by chewing cocoa beans. 

For drink, a bottle and a half of good claret or 
burgundy may be taken in the day. Those who prefer 
it may take instead brandy and soda-water, one part 
of the former to nine of the latter. Fresh beef-tea is 
a capital quencher of thirst. Coffee with cream. 

We have given these dietaries at length, because 
there is no disorder of the system more dependent on 
dietetic treatment than diabetes. As we have inti- 
mated, our preference is for the course prescribed by 
Dr. Donkin, in following which we have found no 
inconsiderable success when other treatment has 
failed. 



i64 DYSPEPSIA. 



As will be observed, the most serious privation is 
consequent on the prohibition of bread. It is most 
difficult to deny this to the patient, and yet it is pre- 
eminently injurious on account of its starchy compo- 
sition. In order to meet the craving for it various 
substitutes have been provided. M. Bouchardat had 
contrived a bread made of gluten, but it was so little 
attractive to the eye and pleasant to the taste that few 
persons have cared to take it ; they prefer to go 
without bread altogether. Dr. Pavy's almond bis- 
cuits are a far nicer substitute. The almond is baked 
for a short time, and thereby rendered brittle, so that 
it may be easily ground to powder. The flour thus 
obtained is prepared with eggs so as to form cake or 
biscuits. Dr. Chambers expresses the opinion that it 
is not wise to enforce a diet which is really intolerable 
to the patient ; he would conciliate the stomach, 
appetite, and fancy into taking the greatest amount 
of animal food and oleaginous matter ; and if the 
patient ate the heartier for having a biscuit, or crust, 
or glass of porter, or even a forbidden vegetable, with 
his meals, he would deem it better to give him his 
way than to tempt him to break through all rules 
altogether by playing the truant. We, however, can- 
not approve of such concessions ; we should recom- 
mend total abstinence from all forbidden articles as 
the surest way of avoiding temptation ; we should 
strengthen the resolve to save life at all costs of self- 
denial, and prove the truth of the ancient saying, 
"All that a man hath will he give for his life." 



DIABETES.— DR. CHARTERIS. 165 

Dr. Charteris has adduced some evidence to show 
that dieting is of less importance than the main- 
tenance of the temperature of the hings by preventing 
the access of cold external air. The temperature is 
maintained by wearing a respiraior alone during the 
day, and covering respirator and nostrils with a 
knitted woollen cloth during the night. The following 
dietaiy is allowed : — Breakfast : eggs, fish, one pint 
of tea, and biscuits. Dinner : steak, cabbage, bis- 
cuits. Supper : tea, milk, biscuits. Three pints of 
milk during the day are also allowed. The biscuits 
must contain as little starch as possible in their com- 
position. 

A few hints may be given in connection with die- 
tetic treatment. Patients should eat slowly and mas- 
ticate their food thoroughly, take their meals frequently 
and moderately ; for the digestive organs partake of 
the general weakness of the system, and cannot fulfil 
their functions so readily as when in health. Their 
powers should, therefore, not be taxed by quick and 
excessive eating. 

The body should be kept warm by flannel next the 
skin ; gentle exercise in the open air should be fre- 
quently taken in fine weather ; the tendency to con- 
stipation should be counteracted by the use of suitable 
medicines. 

Dr. Morgan has published an interesting mono- 
graph on this subject, which contains a good deal of 
valuable information for medical men and the general 
public. 



1 66 DYSPEPSIA. 



Diet for Bright's Disease, or Chronic 
Albuminuria. 

The function of the kidneys is to eliminate from 
the blood products that are useless in the changes and 
assimilation of food, and materials that have become 
effete in the disintegration of the tissues — i.e., the waste 
matters of the body that do not pass through the in- 
testinal canal or the skin. If these were allowed to 
remain in the blood they would poison it and produce 
death. When eliminated they constitute urea and 
pass off in the urine ; when retained they cause 
uremic poisoning. If the kidneys are in an unhealthy 
condition, as in Bright's Disease, the urea is not 
eliminated. Now the amount of urinary matter to be 
thus eliminated obviously depends very largely on the 
nature of the food. Fatty, starchy, and saccharine 
matters throw no work upon the kidneys ; their pro. 
ducts, carbonic acid and water, pass off through the 
lungs and skin. On the other hand, nitrogenous food 
undergoes such a change in the system as to lead to 
the production of urea, and thus throws much work 
upon the kidneys. An animal diet which is the 
richest in nitrogenous matter yields double the amount 
of urea voided from a vegetable diet. The inference 
from this is that when the kidneys are diseased the 
less they have to do the better, and consequently the 
less should be the amount of nitrogenous food^ 
Hence in Bright's disease only very digestible animal 
food should be taken, and that only in small quan- 



DIET FOR B RIGHTS DISEASE. 167 

titles, while vegetable food should preponderate. Now 
although there is considerable difficulty in persuading 
those who are thus suffering to persist in a systematic 
milk diet, yet it offers the best chance for arresting 
the disorder. Schmidt says he has obtained the most 
brilliant results from an exclusively milk diet when 
all other treatment failed. It may be given cold or 
tepid, and from half a pint to a pint at a time. 
An adult will sometimes take as much as a gallon 
in the twenty-four hours. But in addition to a 
limitation of the nitrogenous supply which will be 
converted into urea, it is important to facilitate the 
removal of what exists in the blood as the result 
of disintegration of tissues. This effete matter fouls 
the blood. Hence the necessity for a copious use 
of water and watery drinks, which flow out readily 
by the kidneys, carrying with them such of the 
waste as may be soluble in water. This dilution 
will relieve the kidneys. The drinking of water is 
also the best means of preventing and relieving the 
dropsy which usually attends this disease. Alcoholic 
drinks are decidedly harmful. Alcohol is removed 
from the system by the kidneys ; if then the ordinary 
means of excretion be ineffective the alcohol remains 
and produces coma, and if it be partially eliminated, 
excessive labour is needlessly and injuriously thrown 
upon the diseased glands. For Bright's disease, then, 
the most suitable diet is a preponderance of vegetables, 
abundance of water, abstinence from alcohol. 



1 68 DYSPEPSIA. 



Diet for Scurvy and Purpura. 

Scurvy and purpura (though the latter is called 
land scurvy) are not the same disease, but analogous. 
Both are characterized by morbid conditions of the 
blood and capillary vessels, which cause efifusions ot 
blood of greater or less extent just beneath the skin 
and in other parts, and are followed by other symp- 
toms. Both are amenable to dietetic treatment in 
conjunction with suitable medicinal remedies. Scurvy 
gradually supervenes on the continued use of a dietary 
deficient in vegetable acids. Its occurrence is greatly 
aided by general deficiency and limited range of food, 
exposure to cold and wet, and mental and moral de- 
pression. It has been deemed to be inseparable from 
long voyages, but has been proved to be preventible 
and curable by means to be found in every inhabited 
country. It is very prevalent in Iceland, especially 
on the western coast, where the inhabitants depend 
chiefly on fishing, and where the pastures are limited 
in extent and inferior in produce. 

The corrective is obvious, viz., the supply of those 
articles of ioodi, fresh vegetables, milk, and good diet 
generally, which contain ingredients the absence of 
which has led to the diseased condition. Cabbage is 
perhaps the most valuable antiscorbutic we possess. 
In slight cases of scurvy or purpura, where bleeding 
from the veins is almost the only symptom, it is very 
successful both in producing a cure and in preventing 
other members of the family from suffering from it. 



DIET FOR SCL'RVY. 169 

The vegetable should be fresh ; if it has been kept, and 
then wetted to freshen it up again, it is not nearly so 
efficacious, and if fermentation has taken place it is 
positively injurious. The concurrent testimony of 
many observers shows that the potato is very efficient 
\n preventing scurvy ; eight to twelve ounces a day are 
sufficient for this purpose. Oranges, lemons, limes, 
lettuce, onions, water-cress, mustard and cress, dande- 
lion, grapes, may likewise be used as preventives. 
Vinegar, good lemon-juice, and other vegetable acids, 
are also excellent anti-scorbutics. In severe cases, 
citrates, tartrates, lactates, and malates of potash 
should be used as drinks and added to the food. An 
ample supply of those acids, as well as of preserved 
vegetables, should be provided for ships which are 
engaged in war, or have to make prolonged sojourn 
where fresh vegetables cannot be obtained. The 
legal supplementary allowance in emigrant vessels is 
eight ounces of preserved potato, three ounces of 
other preserved vegetables (carrots, turnips, onions, 
celery, and mint), besides pickles, and three ounces of 
lemon-juice for each person weekly, and this is found 
to be sufficient to prevent the occurrence of the disease. 
The commencement of the administration of lemon or 
lime juice should not be delayed beyond fourteen days 
after putting out to sea. 

Diet for Fevers and Inflammations. 

There was once an adage in vogue, — stuff a cold 
ttnd starve a fever. That was when the feverish 

M 



D YS PEPSI A, 



nature of a cold was not understood, and when the 
importance of sustaining the constitution when in a 
feverish or inflamed state was not recognised. The 
feeding of fevers is now generally acknowledged to be 
an important auxiliary in the treatment of them. 
Indeed, Dr. Graves said that he desired no higher 
posthumous praise than that he fed fevers. In this, 
however, there is nothing new, for the value of nutri- 
tion for those who were suffering from them was 
observed in the earliest times. Hippocrates was so 
decided in his opinion on this subject that in his 
treatise on the management of acute diseases he lays 
stress on the administration of wine and barley gruel, 
and describes how the latter is to be prepared. The 
time of dietetic revival is, however, but recent ; for 
until the last generation it was considered neces- 
sary to starve out the devouring flame of fever or 
inflammation by refraining from feeding it; French' 
physicians going to the extreme, by depriving invalids 
of food altogether. The reaction began when Dr. 
Graves maintained that to feed a fever was essential 
to its cure. Still, it must not be supposed that food 
is to be indiscriminately or outrageously given. " The 
great art of daily nourishing fever patients consists in 
giving a frequent, almost continuous supply of liquid 
nutriment, containing very soluble aliments in a dilute 
form " ( Chambers). Stress must be laid on almost 
every one of these terms. The supply of food must 
be "frequent, almost continuous;" it must be liquid, 
requiring no effort of mastication, making as little 



DIET FOR FEVER. 171 

demand as possible on the digestive functions ; the 
aliments it contains must be of a concentrated charac- 
ter, of pure and highly nutritive quality, and yet '"in 
a dilute form," in such a condition as to be very 
soluble by the digestive secretions, and easily assimi- 
lated by the vessels and glands. Such a supply 
excludes solid food, and large (quantities of food at a 
time. 

Pre-eminent in the treatment of fevers is the free 
allowance of pure cold water. Tlie patient craves for 
it, and he may take it in frequently repeated mouth- 
fuls, as it is nature calling loudly for a simple and 
cooling fluid. Milk is the most suitable food. It 
is what has been provided for the weakest organism, 
and contains all that is required for nourishment. 
It is the sheet-anchor in enteric fever. , If half a 
quarter of a pint be given every hour, or a quarter 
of a pint, or even more, every two hours, a fair 
amount of nutriment will be imbibed. The adminis- 
tration of milk will, however, require watching, 
in case the acidity of the stomach should cause 
the formation and ejection of cheesy lumps. To 
avert this result, a little lime-water or soda-water 
may be added to the milk. Whey will be found 
refreshing and grateful ; and sour buttermilk is not 
to be despised. Beef juice or jelly, mutton broth or 
beef-tea, with as small a ([uantity of the meat fibre as 
possible, may take the place of milk in many instances. 
If these are regularly and freely given, the danger of 
starvation is averted, the emaciation which attends 



172 DYSPEPSIA. 



convalescence is lessened, and the occurrence of serious 
secondary disorders is rendered less probable. In all 
cases it is extremely important -that from the first, 
small quantities of very nutritious food should be given 
regularly and persistently. 

Barley-water, water slightly sweetened, toast-water, 
weak lemonade, gruel, and extract of meat, are 
valuable variations of diet. When there is disrelish 
for food, or difficulty of swallowing arising from the 
arrest of the mucous secretions of the mouth and 
throat, the parched lips and tongue may be moistened 
by a little lemon-juice and water, or other agreeable 
fluid, a few minutes before food is taken. Sometimes 
the mouth is so foul with sordes that grfeat attention 
is essential to keep it clean ; and it may be necessary 
to wipe it out frequently with a soft rag, moist with 
a weak solution of permanganate of potash. The 
cleaner the mouth is kept the better, and it should 
be invariably cleansed before giving food. Sucking 
and swallowing small bits of ice is both grateful and 
useful. If prostration, feeble and irregular circula- 
tion, or complications indicate it, wine or brandy must 
be given, but the quantity of stimulants, and indeed 
of nourishment, must be regulated by the character of 
the pulse and the condition of the nervous system. 
Some allowance of alcohol is indicated when there is 
great prostration of strength, or trembling of the 
hands, or quivering of the voice, or low muttering 
delirium when the patient is left quiet. It should 
always be borne in mind that alcoholic drinks are not 



DIET FOR FEVER. 173 

food, aflford no nutrition, and cannot take the place of 
food. They are stimulating auxiliaries, but can never 
render nourishment unnecessary. Of wines, good 
port, burgundy, and champagne are best ; of spirits, 
brandy and whisky are not to be despised. For 
intermittent fever (ague) there is no wine like fine 
burgundy. Roast apples, grapes, strawberries, oranges, 
pomegranates, lemons, and other ripe pulpy fruit 
in season may be given, with caution, in the absence 
of diarrhoea, provided all skins and pips be rejected. 
They are cooling to the mouth, and pleasant to the 
taste. They are all more wholesome before other 
food than after. But at a certain stage of enteric 
fever, fruits are not admissible, in consequence of the 
danger of extensive ulcerations, which are so common 
in this disease. 

Fresh eggs are highly nutritious, and if taken raw 
or beaten up with milk or water, are quickly assi- 
milated. They may also be beaten up with a little 
wine, if stimulants are advisable. If, however, the 
eggs be stale, or if the albumen be hardened by 
cooking, or if from the state of the stomach the 
digestion be protracted, eggs will do more harm 
than good. Generally speaking, they had better be 
avoided till the gastric functions are restored during 
convalescence. 

As a rule, the temperature of food in sickness 
should be as nearly as possible that of the natural 
heat of the body, — about 98''. But in cases of 
fever or diarrhoea, or where there is considerable 



174 DYSPEPSIA. 



nausea, the cooler it is the better. When there is 
inflammation of the stomach or bowels, or where 
vomiting is present, the food should invariably be in 
a liquid form, given cjuitc cold, and only a {^\n spoon- 
fuls at a time. A very little pepsine may be helpful 
in such cases. 

When there is considerable prostration, when the 
patient cannot be raised without danger of fainting, 
or when he ought not to be moved from the re- 
cumbent posture at all, as in enteric fever or cholera, 
the liquid food is best given by a china feeding-cup, 
and not by a spoon ; for taking food by literal spoon- 
fuls is often a source of irritation to the sufterer, who 
prefers being left alone and without food to taking it 
in driblets. But the same vessel, or even another 
of the same appearance, should not be used for both 
food and medicine. 

Sometimes it is necessary to give food otherwise 
than by the mouth, as at the height or latter end 
of acute fevers. Enemata then become necessary, 
and life may often be sustained for some time by 
nutritive injections given by this means. Food must 
in such cases be blood-warm, diluted, and slowly 
injected as far as possible. If the injection be farina- 
ceous, as barley water or gruel, the addition of a 
little diastase (in the shape of malt extract) will to 
some extent supply the deficiency of saliva. If it con- 
sist of broth or beef-tea, the addition of a little pepsine 
will supply the lack of gastric juice. Not more than a 
quarter of a pint should be given at a time. 



DIET FOR HEART DISEASE. 175 

Diet for Fever Patients. — Barley-water, water 
gruel, rice gruel, toast-water, white wine whey, rennet 
whey, alum whey, lemonade, linseed tea, arro\vroot, 
egg nogg, egg soup, panada, chicken broth, mutton 
broth, beef-tea, malt-tea, tea, biscuit and milk, bread 
pudding, rice pudding, batter pudding, and mashed 
potato. 

Diet for Heart-Disease. 

A diseased heart is a feeble heart, and its impulse 
is slow; hence the circulation of blood is sluggish, 
and the absorption of liquids through the mucous 
membranes is retarded. The consequence of this is 
that liquids are slowly absorbed by the stomach, and 
if any large quantity be taken at once, this occasions 
considerable inconvenience, and interferes with the 
digestion of solid food. The distention of the stomach 
also interferes with the action of the heart, already 
too slow and laboured. 

In heart-disease, then, only a moderate amount of 
liquid should be taken at once. Dry diet is accom- 
panied by less discomfort. Soup should not be taken 
at the commencement of dinner ; drink taken during 
the meal should only be sipped, and should not be 
cold. Between meals, thirst should be quenched by 
sips. Dry diet is especially indicated if the sufferer 
be corpulent, particularly if fat has accumulated about 
the chest. The diet should be nitrogenous and 
nourishing. If drojjsy supervene, it will be necessary 



176 DYSPEPSIA. 



to aid the functions of the kidneys and skin by im- 
bibing a considerable quant'ty of water ; but as soon 
as tlie dropsical tendency is arrested, the dry diet 
should be resumed. 



Diet for Aneurism. 

In the treatment of aneurism two factors are essen- 
tial, — rest in the recumbent posture, and light, un- 
stimulating diet. The object is to render the blood 
unnaturally stagnant and unnaturally coagulable ; and 
this is best secured by keeping the patient in bed and 
restricting his food. An artificially ancemic condition 
is thus produced ; the blood is rendered deficient in 
red corpuscles (which do not coagulate) and rich in 
liquor sangicinis and white corpuscles. The result is 
that fibrin is increased, coagulation takes place, and 
the aneurism is obliterated, while the force of the 
heart's action is diminished. This method of treating 
the arterial tumour is commonly known as Valsalva's, 
but it has been employed very effectively by Mr. Tuf- 
nell. The recumbent posture must be rigorously 
maintained. The diet should be restricted to three 
meals a day, taken at regular intervals, and consist of 
two ounces of white bread and butter, with two ounces 
of cocoa or milk, for breakfast; three ounces of broiled 
or boiled meat, three ounces of potatoes or bread, and 
four ounces of water or light claret, for dinner ; and 
two ounces of bread and butter and two ounces of 
milk or tea for supper, — in all, ten ounces of solid 



DIET FOR BALDNESS. 177 

and eight ounces of fluid food in the twenty-four 
liours. r>y such limited fare the volume of blood and 
the activity of its circulation are reduced, and the 
coagulation of fibrin within the sac is favoured. 

Diet for Baldness. 

As the cause of this malady is undoubtedly ex- 
hausted nutrition, we must turn our attention to the 
restoration of the nutritive functions as the first step 
towards its cure. Abstinence from all stimulants is 
an important feature in the diet, for it is a fact that 
reparative power, especially in baldness, is encouraged 
by total suspension of wine, beer, etc., good wholesome 
food taking their place. Fat is essential, it being the 
great nerve-restorer, besides supplying the scalp with 
the lacking material : it may be taken in the form of 
butter, cream, cheese (if it can be digested), cod-liver 
oil, and milk ; should the latter be found too heavy, it 
may be taken in the form of cafe au /ait. Bacon for 
breakfast is also useful, its value consisting in the 
quantity oi fat which it contains in a compact form ; 
and when broiled in slices, which secures thorough 
cooking, it rarely disagrees even with the most deli- 
cate stomach. The lean portions are of less value, 
and when too highly cured, bacon becomes less amen- 
able to the gastric juices. 

Stimulation to the scalp is also useful. We approve 
of the American remedy only in part : " Use brandy 
externally until the hair grows, and take it internally 
to clinch the roots." 



178 DYSPEPSIA. 



When hair begins to grow again after faUing out, it is 
soft and downy, hke an infant's ; it is well, therefore, 
to strengthen it by shaving ; hence Dr. Godfrey's 
advice, " It is a good plan to mow the cranial lawns 
once a fortnight, until stubble takes the place of 
down." 

Diet for Diphtheria, 

One of the characteristics of this disease is great 
prostration. To counteract this, the strength of the 
patient must be well sustained by nourishment from 
the very commencement. He must therefore be 
urged to swallow in spite of the pain which this 
act generally occasions. Eggs beaten up in milk 
or in brandy and water with sugar ; beef-tea slightly 
thickened with rice or pearl barley ; arrowroot or sago, 
with port or sherry. Sudden extreme prostration 
requires wine or brandy. A tea-spoonful of pure 
glycerine every three or four hours will do much to 
soothe the irritation of the patient's throat, and help 
to detach the false membranes. Alcoholic stimulants 
are often extremely serviceable in diphtheria; a rapid 
pulse is no counter-indication. 

If vomiting occur, constantly sucking small pieces 
of ice tends to allay it. It also affords comfort to 
the patient by arresting the constant hawking up of 
mucus, which is usually abundantly secreted. As a 
diluent, the melted ice promotes the action of the 
kidneys. 

Children will sometimes persistently refuse to 



DIET FOR CORPULENCE. 179 

swallow because it gives them pain, and they cannot 
understand the necessity for bearing the pain in order 
to nourish the system. In such cases nutritive injec- 
tions must be employed. About an ounce of fluid 
should be given at a time. The enemata should be 
commenced (if necessary) as soon as the true character 
of the disease is known, and repeated every four 
hours. 

Diet for Corpulence or Obesity. 

Some years ago considerable interest was excited 
by the publication of a method of treatment by which 
Mr. Banting had succeeded in reducing his cumber- 
some corpulence to a condition of health, and his 
weight from 14 stone 6 lb. to 1 1 stone 2 lb. There 
was nothing in this result that might not have been 
physiologically anticipated from the dietetic measures 
he adopted. But he brought into prominence the fact 
that such measures will prove most effective without 
medicinal aid. It has been judiciously pointed out by 
Dr. Pavy that the reduction in weight is not only due 
to the changes made in the elementary constituents 
of the diet taken, but also in its quantity ; and that it 
is unsafe to adopt his scale without discrimination, for 
it barely comes up to what is regarded as hospital 
" subsistence diet." 

Mr. Banting states that his original dietary table 
comprised " bread and milk for breakfast, or a pint of 
tea with plenty of milk, sugar, and buttered toast 3 



l8o DYSPEPSIA. 



meat, beer, much bread, and pastry for dinner ; the 
meal of tea similar to that of breakfast ; and generally 
a fruit tart or bread and milk for supper. The chief 
feature of this is the exclusion of vegetables and 
alcoholic drinks. Subsequently he adopted the 
following scale : — 

Breakfast at 9 a.m. : five to six ounces of either 
beef, mutton, kidneys, broiled fish, bacon, or cold 
meat of any kind, except pork or veal ; a large cup of 
tea or coffee (without milk or sugar), a little biscuit, 
or one ounce of dry toast ; making together six ounces 
of solids and nine of liquids. 

Dinner at 2 p.m. : five or six ounces of any fish 
except salmon, herrings, or eels; any meat except pork 
or veal ; any vegetable except potato, parsnips, beet- 
root, turnip, or carrot ; one ounce of dry toast ; fruit 
out of a pudding not sweetened ; any kind of poultry 
or game ; and two or three glasses of good claret, 
sherry, or madeira ; champagne, port, and beer for- 
bidden ; making together ten to twelve ounces of 
solids and ten of liquids. 

Tea at 6 p.m. : two or three ounces of cooked fruit, 
a rusk or two, and a cup of tea without milk or sugar ; 
making two to four ounces of solids and nine of 
liquids 

Supper at 9 p.m. : three or four ounces of meat or 
fish, similar to dinner ; with a glass or two of claret or 
sherry and water ; making four ounces of solids and 
seven of liquids. 

Sugar, says Mr. Banting, is the most active of all 



DIET FOR CORPULENCE. 



fat-forming foods ; for he has repeatedly observed that 
five ounces of sugar distributed over seven days (less 
than an ounce a day) augmented his weight nearly a 
pound by the end of that time. Other prohibited 
substances do not produce such obvious results ; but 
he made it a rule to avoid all roots or vegetables grown 
underground, all fat, and all farinaceous matters, eating 
bread only when it was properly toasted. 

For athletic exercises it is often found necessary to 
reduce the weight and size ; and from the regimen 
adopted in training, some hints may be gathered for 
the guidance of those who are obese. For athletes 
the following dieting has been recommended : — Break- 
fast at 8 : the lean of mutton or beef without fat or 
skin ; dry toast, biscuit, or oat-cake ; a tumbler of 
claret and water, or a large cup of tea without milk or 
sugar, or with a slice of lemon. Luncheon at i : bread 
or biscuit, Dutch cheese, salads, roasted apples, 
radishes \ after eating, a little water, claret and water, 
or unsweetened lemonade. Dinner at 5 or 6 : fresh meat 
of any kind except pork and veal, and without fat or 
skin ; green vegetables, but no potatoes, pastry, or 
made dishes ; a jelly, lemon ice, or roasted apple ; 
claret and water during dinner, one glass of madeira 
or sherry after it. 

F'or the reduction of general obesity the preceding 
dietaries may therefore be thus epitomised : 

Admissible : — Lean meat, poultry, game, eggs, milk 
in moderation, green vegetables, turnips, succulent 
fruit, light wines, dry sherry, bitter ale, and spirit.s. 



1 82 DYSPEPSIA. 



all in great moderation ; brown bread in moderation, 
wheaten bread in greater moderation, digestive bis- 
cuits, gluten biscuits. 

Prohibited : — Fat in every form, butter, cream, 
sugar and sweets of every kind, pastry and puddings, 
potatoes, carrots, parsnips, beetroot, rice, sago, and 
other farinaceous articles, porter, stout, and sweet 
ales, port, and sweet wines. 

Exercise and baths are essential adjuncts to dietetic 
treatment in the reduction of cori^ulence. But the 
necessity for carefulness in the diet is increased by the 
fact that a corpulent person cannot usually take 
exercise sufficient to walk off the diet. If violent 
exertion be exhausting, digestion is interfered with ; 
and at the same time the fat that unavoidably exists 
in the meat is assimilated, so that the adipose tissue 
grows, while the muscular and nervous strength is 
diminished. Many stout persons are already active ; 
and any considerable addition to their activity would 
add to their discomfort, and possibly prove injurious. 
Hence the necessity for strict attention to regimen. 

Diet for Rickets. 

Rickets is essentially a disease of mal-nutrition, 
and is not hereditary, as scrofula often is. It is a 
disease of early childhood, manifesting itself as early 
as the seventh to the eighteenth month, rarely after 
the twenty-fourth. Every organ of the body is impli- 
cated, although it is most manifest in the bones, 



DIET FOR RICKETS. 183 

which are deficient in calcareous elements. They are 
therefore gelatinous, soft and yielding. This defi- 
ciency in the more substantial osseous particles is 
caused by improper diet, and is only to be conected 
by supplying what is proper. Rickets does not occur 
in children who are kept too long at the breast, but 
among those that are weaned too soon. It is not 
because they are supplied with milk, but because 
they are fed too soon on meat and vegetables. 
It is never so common as in babies that are weaned 
before the teeth are sufficiently forward ; and fed on 
pap, potatoes, bacon, and beef. It occurs far too 
commonly in the great centres of population, where 
mothers are induced to neglect their children in order 
to go to work, and especially in large manufacturing 
towns, where they go to mills far too soon after babies 
are born. For rickety children nothing can take 
the place of milk, — first the mother's milk, if it be 
good ; next comes milk diluted with water, and sweet- 
ened with sugar of milk ; even skim milk is better 
than none at all. And the milk may form a large 
proportion of the diet after the age of infancy is 
passed. Cod-liver oil, animal broths, and fresh meat 
may then be given. The administration of a moderate 
quantity of finely scraped raw beef, made into a 
palatable sandwich, salted and peppered, is much to be 
recommended. Malt or barley food is specially suitable 
for rachitic children. It may be prepared in the 
following manner : — Four table-spoonfuls of ground 
malt should be boiled for ten minutes in a pint of 



1 84 DYSPEPSIA. 



water, the liquid poured off, and a pint of new milk 
added. The sediment from the husk, if finely ground, 
need not be removed, as it is very nutritious, and rich 
in bone-forming materials. Cod-liver oil has a specific 
action in this disease, but should only be given in 
small doses, ten to twenty drops at first, and the 
quantity gradually increased to a tea-spoonful. During 
its administration the evacuations should be examined, 
for* the appearance and odour of the oil in them are 
signs that the quantity should be reduced. 

Diet in Hysteria. 

In this disorder the diet should be a generous, 
varied, and highly nitrogenous one. Fish or bacon 
may be taken for breakfast, which will be generally 
more acceptable and better relished if a cold bath or 
spinal douche has been taken on rising. For the other 
meals the diet should be as nutritive as the digestive 
organs will permit without causing disturbance. But 
the chief point to be noted here is the disuse of wine 
beer, and spirits. The daily consumption of alcoholic 
beverages, for the debility from which patients 
imagine they suffer, should be strenuously opposed, 
for this, instead of conferring benefit, only tends to 
confirm the worst symptom of the complaint. There 
is, further, danger to be apprehended lest the patient 
should in time learn to enjoy the pleasurable sensa- 
tions yielded by alcohol so highly, that in the end 
she becomes an inebriate. A feeling of exhaustion or 



HYSTERIA. iS: 



faintness from defective or perverted nervous supplies, 
may indeed be removed by stimulants, but the ex- 
haustion quickly returns, and with it the temptation 
again to seek relief by the same means. It is most 
difficult to persuade the patient that the sensations 
of faintness or exhaustion are really aggravated by 
stimulants, and that if she will abstain from the delu- 
sive draught, and adopt rational methods of cure, 
nerve-power will return, and with it appetite and 
other normal functions. 

" The best way of breaking off the habit of yielding 
to the perverted sensation which so insidiously cries 
for alcohol," writes Dr. Chambers, "is immediately 
and altogether to relinquish it. Terrible sometimes 
is the struggle, yet it is a bracing and ennobling con- 
flict ; whereas the long-continued daily annoyance of 
giving it up little by little is on the whole quite as 
painful, and is often enfeebling to the mind. More- 
over courage is likelier to give way in a month than 
in a day." 

Diet for Diakrhcka. 

In recent cases of Diarrhoea food should be given 
sparingly, consisting of light, non-irritating articles 
— gruel, rice, baked rice pudding, arrowroot, arrow- 
root biscuits, Neave's food prepared with an extra 
quantity of milk, and other farinaceous substances, 
which should be taken cool. The temperature of 
food is very important ; cold niilk and lime-watgr 



1 86 DYSPEPSIA. 



will often arrest infantile Diarrhoea^ when warm milk 
would be useless. If severe sickness be superadded, 
all preparations of milk may have to be suspended for 
a few hours, and whey, veal-broth, Mellin's patent 
extract, water, or barley-water substituted. Raw 
meat, or juice, sometimes acts favourably in Diarrhoea 
of young children. 

In chrofiic Diarrhxa the diet should be nutritious, 
but restricted to the most digestible kinds of food; 
mutton, chicken, pigeon, game, and white fish are 
generally suitable, if not over-cooked. Tender beef 
is not admissible in many cases. Pork, veal, and all 
tough portions of meat should be avoided. Starchy 
foods — arrowroot, sago, etc. — are insufficient for pro- 
longed cases of Diarrhoea, but are improved by a 
mixture with good milk. Old rice, well boiled in 
milk, taken directly it is prepared, forms excellent 
nourishment. Raw or half-cooked eggs, and good 
sound ripe grapes in moderation, may generally be 
taken. Mucilaginous drinks — barley-water, gum- 
water, linseed-tea, etc., are the most suitable. Alco- 
holic stimulants may be necessary in some cases of 
Diarrhcea, but rarely ; the best wine is good Burgundy. 
Beer never agrees. Milk and lime-water or scalded 
milk constitutes the best diet ; in feverish conditions 
it may be iced ; soda-water may be occasionally 
substituted for lime-water. Restricting a patient 
entirely to this diet is often alone sufficient to cure 
most kinds of Diarrhoea not dependent on any 
organic cause. Even in the latter case much ten^- 



DROPSY— ECZEMA. 187 

porary benefit is generally gained. The alkaline milk 
diet may be taken in small meals at regular intervals. 
As important accessories to the above, the postural 
treatment of Diarrhoea, and the application of a mode- 
rately tightly-fitting flannel roller around the abdomen, 
are very valuable. Rest in the recumbent posture is 
especially desirable in acute cases. 

Diet for Dropsy. 

In acute Dropsy the diet should be similar to that 
in acute fever ; in chronic Dropsy patients require 
nourishing diet to meet the exhaustion that commonly 
exists, but on account of that extreme feebleness, 
easily digestible food only should be taken. To allay 
the burning thirst often experienced, cold water is 
the best beverage ; but any other that the patient 
desires, if not positively injurious, may be taken. 
Water may be said to be a real restorative, and may 
be taken ad libitum, for it increases the amount of 
fluids excreted to an extent greater than its own 
bulk ; it also tends to improve the appetite and 
strengthen the pulse, while it diminishes the dropsical 
collections. It will thus be seen that the popular 
notion that drinking \fater increases Dropsy is en- 
tirely erroneous. 

Diet in Eczema and other Skin Diseases. 

Cod-liver oil is a dietetic medicine of great value 
in Eczema, especially in the chronic stage, and when 



1 88 DYSPEPSIA. 



attended with emaciation. Children will often take 
it greedily in its natural state. It may be given with 
safety to the youngest infant ; or it may be given in 
the form of cod-liver oil chocolate. The daily use of 
vegetable food is a point that should be rigidly ad- 
hered to, especially such as is eaten uncooked — lettuce, 
celery, watercresses, etc., for vegetables contain potash 
salts, which are needed by the blood, but are ab- 
stracted in the process of boiling. The juice of meat 
is very valuable ; it may be given alone as beef or 
mutton tea, or mixed with other food. Salted and 
cured meats are decidedly objectionable, except fat 
bacon, which is recommended for breakfast. For 
infants the cod-liver oil is especially valuable ; also 
good milk in large quantity, chicken broth, etc. This 
provision oi fresh meat and vegetables, combined with 
the use of pure soft water for ablutions, will be found 
very helpful in the relief of all cutaneous disorders. 

Diet in Diseases of the Liver. 

As diseases of the liver are very frequently occa- 
sioned by errors in diet, careful regimen fills a most 
important place in the treatment of the functional 
disorders of that organ. Temporary disturbance and 
chronic derangement alike call for limitation in the ar- 
ticles of food. The morbid condition which is indicated 
by jaundice, its yellow discoloration, lassitude, and 
sense of weight and fulness, must be met as much by 
prohibitions of diet as by prescriptions of medicine. 
^s the two leading causes of diseases of the livef 



DIET FOR LIVER COMPLAINTS. 189 

are too abundant, highly seasoned, stimulating diet, 
and the habitual use of alcoholic drinks, these should 
be persistently avoided. Excesses at the table, which 
cause the introduction into the system of a great 
variety of noxious matters which check functional 
activity, and overload the digestive organs, must be 
supplanted by moderation and abstinence. Heavy 
meals, sweet and oily articles of diet, and alcoholic 
stimulants, must not be allowed. A minimum quantity 
of albuminous food should be taken, in order that the 
quantity of uric acid may be lessened ; and a minimum 
quantity of carbonaceous food, in order that the uric 
acid may be oxidized as much as possible. Great 
regularity should be observed in the hours of meals, 
and only light and nutritious food taken. When 
acute symptoms are present, chicken broth, beef-tea, 
toasted bread scalded with hot water and flavoured 
with a little sugar, roasted apples, and cold water ad 
libitum, constitute the most suitable diet. All food, 
when a more varied regimen is admissible, should be 
properly cooked, and the quantity taken should be 
proportioned to the amount of physical work that has 
to be performed, for two of the most common causes of 
liver disorders are deficiency of outdoor exercise and 
the maintenance of sedentary habits. 

With regard to food supplied to soldiers not 
in action in India, two errors are commonly com- 
mitted, — the rations are too large, and served out 
according to regulations that may be very good with 
reference to a temperate climate, hard work, and 



igo DYSPEPSIA. 



English habits ; and the condiments — spices and 
pepper — are supplied in excess, additions which may 
be suitable for the purely vegetable diet of the 
Hindoo, but which are prejudicial to the European. 
The diet adopted in India is usually far too stimu- 
lating ; especially is this the case with regard to 
alcoholic drinks. Whether in India or elsewhere, 
those that are subject to diseases of the liver should 
studiously abstain from malt liquors, port wine, 
champagne, and other strong wines and spirits. 
Claret, or a small quantity of the purest spirit largely 
diluted, as a rule answers best as a beverage ; but 
even these should be taken sparingly, and many per- 
sons do best without stimulants at all. Entire ab- 
stinence would be attended with no serious results ; 
there might be temporary inconvenience due to a 
craving for what had been habitual, which would be 
modified by a little coffee or tea, and would be speedily 
overcome ; but abstinence at that cost would act 
beneficially on the functions of the liver. 

Diet in Infancy. 

Infancy is not naturally a period of sickness ; but 
it is a time in which sickness is often induced by 
errors in diet. Indeed, there is no more fruitful source 
of suffering and death at this period than unsuitable 
or excessive feeding. Of more than i,ooo deaths of 
children under one year of age in Newcastle during 
1874, 19 per cent, died from diseases consequent on 
improper nutrition. 



DIET IN INFANCY. 191 

Milk is the natural food of infants, and nothing 
can altogether take its place. If the mother's milk 
be withheld, unless the milk of another carefully- 
selected mother be substituted, the child will suffer. 
This alone contains the elements suitable for the 
growth of the infant, and in such form and proportions 
as can be digested ; for during the first period of 
infancy all the digestive functions are not in operation. 
There are no teeth for the mastication of food, there 
is no saliva to dissolve it and facilitate its assimilation; 
while the stomach and intestines are in such a suscep- 
tible and delicate state, that they are easily deranged 
even by the unsuitable food which may be eaten by 
the mother. There are thus physiological indications 
that the digestive capacity is limited, and that no 
other food is suitable besides that which the Creator 
has provided in the mother's milk. When the teeth 
begin to appear, and the maternal milk begins to fail, 
this may be supplemented by light farinaceous diet. 
And when the teeth become more developed during 
the second year, some animal food may be added. 

If the mother's milk fail, and a substitute cannot 
be provided, the milk of the cow should be used, as it 
approaches most nearly to woman's milk in its con- 
stituent elements. It is of course important that the 
milk should come from a cow or from a dairy where 
the cows are in a healthy condition and well cared for. 
It is by no means essential, though desirable, that the 
milk should be always obtained from one particular 
cow. But it is essential for the health of the infant 



192 DYSPEPSIA. 



that the milk be supplied from cows fed on wholesome 
food. It is also essential that the cow has not very re- 
cently calved. And the fresher the milk the better; for 
as the mother's milk deteriorates by remaining in the 
breast after the draught comes on, so the cow's milk 
is deteriorated by standing. New milk warm from the 
cow is the best for children at any age. 

When given to the child the milk of the cow should 
be assimilated as nearly as possible to that of the 
mother. It should be diluted in the proportion of 
two-thirds of milk to one-third of soft, pure, tepid 
water, to each pint of which should have been pre- 
viously added a drachm of sugar of milk (which being 
extracted from milk is far preferable to cane-sugar) 
and two grains of finely-powdered phosphate of lime. 
If the milk has been skimmed, a large table-spoonful 
of cream should be added to each pint of milk ; if not. 
skimmed, the addition of two tea-spoonfuls -will 
suffice. After a time the proportion of water may be 
lessened. It is of importance that after the child has 
been fed the bottle be washed with a weak solution of 
carbonate of soda, and that the teat be put into cold 
water, there to remain till wanted. 

Condensed milk, i.e.^ milk from which much of the 
water has been evaporated, and to which a large pro- 
portion of cane-sugar has been added, is now used to 
a large extent as a substitute for fresh milk. Its 
recommendations are that it is cheap, and always 
ready to hand for the preparation of a meal. But it 
is doubtful if in such preparation sufficient water is 



DIET IX IXFAKCY. 193 

usually added, if the milk is not too much sweetened, 
and if infants fed on it do not acquire a plumpness 
which is due to the increase of fat rather than of 
flesh. It is hard to say that it ought not to be used, 
especially when there is difficulty in obtaining a 
supply of fresh and pure cow's milk ; but it is not cer- 
tain that it is really wholesome diet for a child. In 
using it, it should be remembered that it is to be 
diluted not merely to the consistence of ordinary cow's 
milk, but to the substitute for woman's milk. 

When dribbling commences and the teeth begin to 
appear, the infant may be fed on bread sop, sweetened 
with sugar of milk, bread crusts which he can suck 
and gnaw, plain biscuits, biscuit powder, baked flour, 
and rusks, or Neave's farinaceous food ; but fancy 
biscuits are objectionable. It is not till the parotid 
glands secrete saliva that the child is able to digest 
starchy food. 

And it may be observed that not only is the ma- 
ternal milk the very best diet that a mother can give 
to her child, but the best part of it is when " the 
draught comes in." The reason for this is that it has 
just been secreted, and is therefore in the most refined 
and perfect condition. Every minute that it remains 
in the gland after secretion it deteriorates, for particles 
are separated which never reunite ; and thus the as- 
similation by the child is less easy. 

A little mutton broth, weak beef-tea, or chicken 
soup may be occasionally added. But these additions 
to milk diet should be only gradually made. Prema- 



194 DYSPEPSIA. 



ture weaning is to be most strongly deprecated ; its 
advantages are superficial, its evils lasting. It has 
been shown by M. Guerin that too early weaning is 
the most fruitful cause of Rickets. The child may 
appear to be well, his muscles firm ; he may be active 
and desirous to walk \ but the bones have not grown, 
the limbs yield and become distorted. The bow-legged 
children so common in manufacturing districts suffer 
thus in consequence of neglect in infancy. 

There are circumstances, however, which justify 
early weaning. If the mother be a feeble woman, if 
she be subject to any acute disease or chronic affec- 
tion, or if she show signs of suffering from continued 
lactation — such as headache, dimness of sight, short- 
ness of breath, palpitation or night sweats — the ma- 
ternal nursing should be discontinued. And the dis- 
continuance may be desirable at the end of the sixth 
month, or even of the first or second ; for persistence 
in nursing is then prejudicial to both mother and child. 

But the period of weaning should under ordinary 
circumstances be determined by the growth of the 
teeth and by the child's age. Milk should be the 
predominant food till the eye-teeth are cut ; it is then 
not difficult to resume a diet of milk altogether, if in 
connection with dentition there be diarrhoea, convul- 
sions, or other ailments. From seven to twenty 
months of age farinaceous matters may be mixed in 
gradually increasing quantities with the milk ; but they 
should be well cooked first by being baked, and then 
dissolved by boiling. 



DIET IN INFANCY. 195 

According to our experience Neave's farinaceous 
food is one of the best articles of diet for infants, and 
indeed for invalids generally. It contains all the in- 
gredients requisite for the formation of muscle, fat, 
and bone, and for the maintenance of the warmth of 
the body. As it contains the essential gluten and 
salts, it is superior to corn-flour for infants and grow- 
ing children. We know of nothing superior as an 
element of transitional diet between the administration 
of milk alone and the adoption of ordinary food. 
Ridge's, Hard's, and other farinaceous preparations 
have their recommendations, and are preferred by 
some persons. Liebig has prepared a " food for in- 
fants " from wheat-flour, malted barley-flour, cow's 
milk, bicarbonate of potash, and water. It is complex 
in its composition, and necessitates some complexity 
in its cooking ; nevertheless it is extensively used in 
Germany, where it is regarded as more suitable to in- 
fantile digestion than the starchy food which is usually 
given in this country. Few persons who can obtain 
good cow's milk will, however, run the risks involved 
in preparing it for use. Liebig's extract of malt is a 
similar preparation for quick assimilation of starchy 
matters. But whatever be the farinaceous food selected, 
it should be most distinctly understood that it is to be 
employed as a gradual transition from milk diet. 
Prof Buckingham is of opinion that a healthy mother 
should nurse her child until the first sixteen teeth are 
cut ; and that if she cannot nurse it so long, it should 
have no other diet but milk. He states that careful 



196 DYSPEPSIA. 



observation has confirmed him in this opinion, for 
although early deaths may be produced by other 
causes, the great majority of infants who die fall 
victims in their second summer, when the changes 
due to teething are going on, and their stomachs have 
been loaded with indigestible food. Up to three years 
old, the quantity of farinas may be increased and 
given as puddings with a little egg. Bread and butter 
may also be given, and towards the end of that time 
a well-boiled mealy potato with a little red gravy may 
be given for dinner. 

But no child should be allowed to touch animal 
food of any kind until its eye-teeth and first molars 
are developed. The late Sir C. Clarke used to say 
that the frequent infraction of this rule was worth 
;^io,ooo a year to him j his practice lying chiefly 
among the children of the higher classes. After that 
age the quantity and quality of meat allowed should 
be carefully graduated according to the constitution 
of the child, those of a sanguine temperament re- 
quiring less animal and more farinaceous food, while 
the more robust and less sensitive need more solid 
nutriment. 

One of the greatest mistakes committed in feeding 
children consists in giving them too frequent meals, 
or allowing them to be continually eating, particularly 
in allowing them sweetmeats and other indigestible 
articles to be consumed between meals. After two 
years of age, an interval of four hours between meals 
is rarely more than enough, and to give biscuit, fruit- 



DIET IN INFANCY. 197 

bread, or sweetmeats in the meantime, is just sub- 
tracting so much from the digestive powers of the 
stomach, which, lilce every other organ, requires an 
interval of repose after action. 

And here we may add a very strong protest against 
the practice of giving (even occasionally) alcoholic 
stimulants to infants and children. The ignorance 
which prompts some parents to give their children 
beer, wine, and even spirits, is marvellous as it is 
culpable. Such drinks are quite unnecessary, except 
when ordered by a medical man in cases of illness ; 
an immediate injury is inflicted on the child, and 
tastes and habits are formed which will prove 
harmful in after life. In proof that immediate injury 
is inflicted, the following fact may be cited. — An 
ingenious surgeon tried the following experiment : 
He gave to two of his children, for a week alter- 
nately, to the one a full glass of sherry, and to the 
other a large orange. The effects that followed were 
sufl!icient to prove the injurious tendency of alcoholic 
drinks. In the one the pulse was quickened, the 
heat increased, the secretions morbidly altered, and 
the flow of bile diminished ; while the other had 
every appearance that indicated high health. The same 
effects followed when the experiment was reversed, 
when the orange-girl took wine, and the wine-girl had 
an orange. The injury cannot be less decided when 
infants, with their delicate and susceptible organisa- 
tions, sip the beer and wine their parents indulge in, 



198 DYSPEPSIA, 



Solid Nutriment. 
In conjunction with the preceding remarks, the 
following dietaries may prove suggestive and useful, 
the presumption being that at the earliest age the 
mother is able to nurse her child. 

Diet from Six to Twelve Months Old. — (i) 
7 a.m., a breakfast-cupful of Neave's food. 10.30 
a.m., a breakfast-cupful of milk, with a teaspoonful of 
lime-water added if milk alone causes discomfort. 
2 p.m., the yolk only of one egg well beaten up in a 
teacupful of milk. 5.30 p.m., as at 7 a.m. 10 p.m., 
as at 10.30 a.m. (2) {alter fiative). — 7 a.m., a dessert- 
spoonful of pearl barley jelly dissolved in a breakfast- 
cupful of warm milk, slightly sweetened. 10.30 a.m., 
a breakfast-cupful of milk with a teaspoonful of lime- 
water if necessary. 2 p.m., egg-pudding, with a 
little milk or sugar, or red gravy. 5.30 p.m., a tea- 
cupful of Neave's food. 10 p.m. as at 10.30 a.m. 

Diet from Twelve to Eighteen Months Old. — 
(i) 7.30 a.m., a rusk or slice of stale bread with a 
breakfast-cupful of milk ; if the child has teeth it 
should crunch the bread and sip the milk ; if not, the 
bread should be soaked in milk. 11 a.m., a teacupful 
of milk, with a plain biscuit or a thin slice of bread 
and butter. 1.30 p.m., egg-pudding, with a little 
milk, or sugar or red gravy ; or {alternative) a tea- 
cupful of good beef tea, or of beef-gravy, with rusk or 
stale bread, followed by a table-spoonful of light 
farinaceous pudding. 6 p.m., as at 7.30 a.m, 



DIET IN INFANCY. 199 

(2) {alternative). — 7.30 a.m., the yolk of one lightly- 
boiled egg, a thin slice of bread and butter, and a 
cupful of new milk, 11 a.m., a drink of milk and a 
thin sHce of bread and butter, i 30 p.m., a mealy 
potato, thoroughly cooked, well mashed, and moist- 
ened with red gravy ; a cupful of milk. 6 p.m., a 
rusk or slice of stale bread with a breakfast-cupful of 
milk, the bread may be crunched and the milk sipped, 
or the bread soaked in the milk. A weakly child may 
have a little milk at 10 p.m. ; a healthy child will 
need nothing after 6 if well trained. 

(3) Three good meals will suffice for some children. 
8 a.m., Neave's food in three-quarters of a pint of 
milk. I p.m., a teaspoonful of baked flour and one 
of fine oatmeal beaten up together till smooth with 
four table-spoonfuls of cold water ; the yolk of an egg 
beaten up in three-quarters of a pint of milk, this 
added to the former, and the whole boiled till it 
thickens. 5.30 p.m., as at 8 a.m. If the child really 
requires anything early in the morning or at 10 p.m., 
he may have half a teacupful of milk and a plain bis- 
cuit, or a thin slice of bread and butter. 

Diet from Eighteen Months Old and Upwards. 
— (0 7-3° a.m., a breakfast-cupful of milk with a 
couple of rusks or a good slice of stale bread. 1.30 
p.m., a small slice of underdone lean of roast mutton, 
well masticated, one well-boiled and well-mashed 
mealy potato with a little gravy ; water or milk and 
water. 6 p.m., a breakfast-cupful of milk, and bread 
and butter. 



DYSPEPSIA. 



(2) {alterfiativc). — 7.30 a.m., a breakfast-cupful of 
milk, the yolk of one lightly-boiled tgg, a slice of 
bread and butter. 1.30 p.m., a breakfast-cupful of 
good beef-tea, followed by a good tablespoonful of 
plain custard or farinaceous pudding. 6 p.m., a 
breakfast-cupful of milk with bread and butter. 

From two years old meat may be given once a day, 
and a little well-stewed or preserved fruit or marma- 
lade occasionally added to the diet. Cocoa may be 
sometimes substituted for milk ; tea and coffee should 
be entirely withheld. 

Diet in Old Age. 

With the decline of life there is a diminution of 
the activity of the secretions and of the assimilative 
functions. Disintegrated cell-tissue is but tardily 
repaired, and the muscles become soft, flabby, and pale 
from an insufficient supply of blood ; there is therefore 
a diminution of physical strength. The nervous func- 
tions are also only imperfectly performed. Hence it is 
necessary that there should be some modifications in 
the diet when a person has passed middle life. Very 
old people, and those who have lost their teeth, are in 
danger of swallowing food before it has been suffi- 
ciently broken up and moistened with saliva, thus 
giving rise to indigestion and imperfect assimilation. 

Indigestible and innutritions articles of diet should 
therefore be studiously avoided. The items which 
were harmless in the vigour of life are now harmful, 
&nd must be eschewed. Jieavy puddings ^nd pastry 



DIET IN OLD AGE. 



overload the stomach. Meat should be tender and 
nutritious, with the gravy in it ; firmer flesh, of tougher 
fibre, and dried pieces, should be left to younger con- 
sumers. Still there should be in flesh and vegetable 
sufiicient solidity and tenacity to compel mastication, 
and thus promote the secretion of saliva and gastric 
juice. Soups and broths are nutritious, but they 
should not contain solid vegetables, which might be 
swallowed without previous solution by the salivary 
secretion. 

Alcoholic drinks are now helpful to those who have 
been abstemious in early life. The best should be 
selected \ cheap spirits are to be especially avoided, 
on account of the quantity of fusel oil they contain. 
If sleeplessness be troublesome, an egg, a sandwich, 
or a few biscuits, with a little warm wine and water 
or a glass of bitter ale, the last thing before going to 
bed, will be found serviceable. 

Attention should be paid to the teeth. These little 
organs of mastication perform a very important part in 
the preparatory process of digestion. Those that are 
sound should be preserved ; those that are beginning 
to decay should receive the immediate care of the 
dentist. Artificial teeth are very valuable substitutes 
for lost natural teeth \ and when a set has been 
procured, they should be examined every few months 
by the dentist, so that they may be fitted to the 
shrinking gums, and their grinding surfaces kept in 
apposition. The roughness of those surfaces also be- 
comes worn down, and consequently the trituration of 



DIET FOR TRAVELLERS. 



food is incomplete. Teeth should be obtained not 
merely to improve personal appearance, but also to 
promote mastication and healthy digestion. 

Diet for Travellers. 

One of the common errors of ordinary travellers is 
that they eat and drink too much on their way. For 
want of occupation, and under the excitement of 
travelling, more is eaten than a healthy appetite 
really calls for, more than the stomach can properly 
digest, and more than the system actually needs. In 
the course of a long journey it is sometimes necessary 
to time the refreshments by the stopping-places at 
which they can be obtained ; but as nearly as possible 
the ordinary periods for taking meals should be observed. 
Sandwiches, or some other light repast, will allay the 
appetite, and Avill meet all the requirements of the 
system in a state of repose, and when no physical or 
mental demands are made upon it. Warm coffee or 
tea is much to be preferred as a beverage to beer or 
spirits ; the warmth is grateful to the consumer in cold 
weather, and the perspiration induced is cooling in hot 
weather, care being taken in the latter case not to sit 
in a draught. The stimulating effect of many glasses 
of beer or wine taken in the course of a long journey 
is by no means desirable, either for the health of the 
drinker or the happiness of his fellow-travellers. 

Invalid travellers are, however, more in danger of 
eating too little than too much. They have to guard 
against the exhaustion of fatigue as well as to main- 



DIET FOR TRAVELLERS. 



tain the tone of a system already enfeebled. And they 
are often so injudicious as to tax. their powers of 
endurance to the utmost by attempting too much in 
the course of a day. In travelling, say, to winter in 
the South of France, or to the Italian watering- 
places, there is often eager haste to reach the end of 
the journey, involving needless and injurious fatigue. 
The day journeys are often too long, the night rest is 
often too short ; and if the invalid travels by " easy 
stages," he is often guilty of the indiscretion of 
attempting a little sight-seeing, which is incompatible 
with the conservation of strength which is really 
needed. Premising that too much is not attempted, 
and that some friend relieves the invalid of all charge 
of luggage, tickets, etc., and secures prompt entrance 
into the waiting-rooms, we will point out what is 
desirable with reference to food. Arrangement should 
be made before starting for an ample supply of what 
may be required by the invalid, and in such form and 
manner that it may be taken when the appetite calls 
for it. An invalid should not have to wait for what 
may happen to be at the next station, with its hurry 
and excitement. A basket should be filled with 
essentials, — a chicken, pheasant, ox-tongue, a plain 
cake, plain biscuits, butter, grapes, wine or wine and 
water, or whatever the patient may and can take. 
Rolls can always be obtained at the hotels. The 
basket should also be replenished on the way. A 
little forethought will provide whatever is suitable 
tasty, and easily handled in a railway train. The 



204 DIET IN MATERNITY. 

demands of appetite can thus be met when tlicy are 
most keen, and the invaUd is saved from irritation 
and exhaustion. 

Travellers by Sea should prepare themselves a few 
days before the voyage for the new conditions to which 
they will be subject. Besides taking such medicines 
as may improve the digestion, over-repletion, irregu- 
larity in taking food, rich and indigestible diet, and 
everything likely to disagree, should be avoided. 
During the early part of the voyage, unless the 
weather be very fine, or the traveller be used to the 
sea, he should remain in his berth in a horizontal 
posture, and take chiefly liquid food, such as beef-tea, 
chicken broth, or such light diet. Champagne — icedj 
if possible— is the best beverage if it suit the stomach. 
Soda-water, with a small quantity of brandy, often 
suits well. Drinking a tumbler of tepid fresh water 
facilitates sickness and thus brings prompt relief. 
When the sickness subsides and the appetite retumSj 
a cup of good coffee without milk or sugar, with a 
plain biscuit or a shiall slice of toast, is often 
grateful. 

Diet in Maternity. 

The expectant mother should make few changes in 
her diet, if it be simple, nutritious, and easily digested. 
It is an eiTor to suppose that she should eat and drink 
excessively. Quality is to be considered rather than 
quantity. Rich food does not nourish the infant, and 
may be productive of serious consequences. Whatever 



DIET IN MATERNITY. 205 

is taken should be thoroughly masticated, and accom- 
panied by a little cold drink, as milk and soda- 
water. Animal food, plainly cooked, once a day, 
well-boiled vegetables, ripe fruit, and farinaceous 
puddings, will afford sufficient variety, and at the 
same time not disagree with the stomach. Highly- 
seasoned dishes, salted and smoked meat, pastry, rich 
sauces, and much raw fruit, are objectionable. Strong 
tea and coffee, wines, beer, spirits, and stimulants are 
usually prejudicial to mother and child. Everything 
that is likely to produce constipation should be 
avoided ; while such food as brown bread, biscuits, 
and cooked fruits are to be taken to maintain a healthy 
action of the bowels. 

The recent mother should be allowed to have as 
much good nutritious food as she desires, and can 
easily digest and assimilate. As soon after delivery 
as the appetite returns, substantial, nourishing diet 
may be given. If the appetite be poor (perhaps from 
exhaustion or want of fresh air, or want of exercise), 
it may be at once tempted by some simple but palat- 
able food, without waiting for it to become stronger. 
A mutton chop or the breast of a chicken, oatmeal 
porridge, cold toast buttered, bread and butter, light 
farinaceous puddings, gruel, cocoa, black tea, etc., 
may be given. Many women have suffered from low 
inflammatory symptoms and serious uterine disorders 
from a too exclusive use of slops, the system being in- 
sufficiently strenglliencd to rally from the physical 
exhaustion attending parturition. It should be dis- 



ao6 DIET IN MATERNITY. 

tinctly understood that wholesome food is the best 
preventive of inflammation. Too much Hquid food is 
likel)' to produce flatulence, distention, and constipa- 
tion, and to retard those physiological changes which 
take place after parturition. 

The nursing mother should abstain from whatever 
disagrees with herself or may be productive of dis- 
comfort to her infant. She should feed well, exercising 
discrimination in her choice of food ; but not over-feed 
herself. Her meals should be regular, mastication 
complete, and natural appetite satisfied. If she be a 
small woman, and be habitually a small eater, and 
have small children, she will not require so much as a 
larger and more robust mother. Highly seasoned or 
indigestible food, late dinners or heavy suppers, strong 
wines and spirits, should be avoided. It is by no 
means necessary that a very sparse and limited diet 
should be adopted, but there should be a judicious 
abstinence from whatever would disagree with herself 
or deteriorate her milk. Some self-denial must be 
practised for the sake of the child, yet such kinds of 
food as goose, duck, salted meats, shell-fish, rich 
dishes, and pastry, should not be taken ; but good 
butcher's meat, fowl, game, farinaceous vegetables and 
puddings, may be eaten. To provide good milk, 
nothing is better than cocoa, cow's milk, or milk and 
water ; to satisfy thirst, barley-water, toast and water, 
or plain water should be taken. But it is a great mistake 
to suppose that malt liquor or wine makes more or 
better milk. It adds nothing to the excellence of the 



DIET MAXIMS. 207 



secretion ; on the contrary, it detracts from it, for it 
makes it watery, and the acidity and bitterness of the 
liquid drunk is prejudicial to the child. If a small 
quantity has been habitually taken, its use may be 
continued, but not exceeded with the notion that the 
patient " requires more support " than is obtained 
from good joints, plain drinks, and fresh air. 

A Quiet Mind and a Healthy Stomach. 

" Having long gone wrong, you must get right by 
degrees. There is no summary process ; medicine 
may assist, or give temporary relief, but you have a 
habit to alter, a tendency to change — from a tendency 
to being ill to a tendency to being well. First study 
to acquire a composure of mind and body ; avoid agita- 
tion or hurry of one or the other, especially just before 
and after meals, and whilst the process of digestion is 
going on. To this end, govern your temper, en- 
deavour to look at the bright side of things, keep 
down as much as possible the unruly passions ; dis- 
card envy, hatred, and malice, and lay your head 
upon your pillow in charity with all mankind. Let not 
your wants outrun your means. Whatever difficulties 
you have to encounter, be not perplexed, but think 
only what it is right to do in the sight of Him who 
seeth all things, and bear without repining the result. 
When your meals are solitary, let your thoughts be 
cheerful ; when they are social, which is better, avoid 
disputes, or serious argument, or unpleasant topics. 



208 DIET MAXIMS. 



' Unquiet meals,' says Shakspearc, ' make ill diges- 
tions,' and the contrary is produced by easy conver' 
sation and pleasant project, welcome news, or a lively 
companion. I advise wives not to entertain their 
husbands Avith domestic grievances about children or 
servants ; not to ask for money nor produce unpaid 
bills ; not propound unreasonable or provoking ques- 
tions ; and I advise husbands to keep the cares and 
vexations of the world to themselves, but to be com- 
municative of whatever is comfortable and cheerful 
and amusing." — The OriginaL 



PREPARATION OF FOOD. 209 



CHAPTER VII. 
METHODS OF PREPARING FOOD. 

The preparation of food by cooking subserves 
several very important purposes. It destroys some 
things that might prove injurious — for instance, any 
jiarasitic germs that may exist. It renders food more 
pleasing to the sight, more fragrant to the smell, more 
agreeable to the taste, and more digestible by the 
stomach. Flavour is developed, and the cohesion of 
tissues is lessened, so that the digestive juices can act 
more freely upon them. Previous beating and bruising 
of flesh facilitates the loosening process, and makes 
the meat more tender ; hence the custom of beating 
chops and steaks. Warmth also aids digestion. 

Cleanliness is the very first principle of cooking ; 
tact in arranging and serving up the food is no mean 
accomplishment. In the preparation of food for the 
sick, greater care, if possible, should be exercised than 
in similar operations for the healthy. The slightest 
error in cooking may cause the loss of appetite at the 
very time when it is most needed. The fastidious 
taste and weakened stomach turn in distrust from what 



PREPARA TION OF FOOD. 



may be the most appropriate nourishment, often com- 
pelling doctor and nurse to seek some other which 
may be less suitable and less easily provided. Food 
prepared without the knowledge of a patient will gene- 
rally be better relished than if he is first consulted as 
to what he will have, and how it is to be dressed. 
The cooking should be done at such a distance that 
no odour from it can come to the sick-room. The 
bedroom itself is the very last place in the world in 
which food should be prepared. 

Roastifig on a spit is by far the best method of pre- 
paring food for the table. To retain the nutritive 
juices, the joint should be placed close to a clear, 
strong fire for five minutes at first, and then removed 
to a greater distance until the last five minutes, when 
it should be brought near the fire again. The albu- 
men and extractive matters are thus hardened into a 
case, which keeps together the valuable fibrinous 
particles till they have imdergone the desired changes 
by slow heat, while objectionable oils generated by 
the charring of the surface are carried off. The 
dripping is wholesome for the healthy, but (especially 
if at all burnt) is indigestible when the stomach is at 
all weak. When the joint is thoroughly roasted, the 
retained gravy will flow out freely at the first incision, 
and the meat, while yet red, will have lost all purple 
colour even to the bone. The time of roasting 
depends partly on the kind of meat, partly on the 
size and weight of the joint. Beef, mutton, and 
goose require a quarter of an hour for each pound ; 



BROILING— BAKING. 2 1 1 

veal and pork require an additional five minutes ; 
poultry and game require less than this proportion. 
Lamb, veal, pork, chicken, and the flesh of all young 
animals is better roasted, because it contains a large 
proportion of albumen and gelatine in the tissues, 
which is partly lost in broiling. 

Broiling is roasting applied to small portions of 
meat. A beefsteak or mutton-chop should be done 
quickly on a gridiron over a clear, hot fire free 
from smoke, so as to retain the juices ; it should, 
therefore, not be pricked with a fork. Fish are best 
when broiled. 

Baking meat at a high temperature is but an 
imperfect method of roasting ; imperfect because it 
usually takes place in an oven, from which there is 
usually no escape for the volatile fatty acids which 
are generated. The meat is, therefore, richer and 
stronger than when roasted before an open fire, and 
less adapted for weak digestion. If, however, the 
meat be enclosed in a thick pie-dish, a crust of some 
sort, or a coat of clay (as gipsies, Indians, and Maories 
cook their joints and fowls), it is delicious. No 
charring then takes place ; but all the fat and gravy, 
which generally ooze out, assist in the cooking. The 
process still goes on after the dish is removed from 
the oven, if it is kept hot by being enveloped in thick 
flannel, or put in a " Nonoegian nest,' or " self-acting 
cooking apparatus." The " nest " is a box thickly 
padded inside with felt, so as to retain the heat in 
the enclosed vessel. It would often be very useful 



Zii PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

as an appurtenance of the sick-room. The " Cornish 
pastry," made of meat or fish, enveloped in a thick 
soUd crust, baked slowly, then packed in several 
layers of woollen material, will keep hot and delicious 
for several hours Vegetables and fruit should be 
likewise slowly baked. Eggs should be only 
sparingly used in baked dishes, because their albumen 
becomes more solid and indigestible with prolonged 
cooking. 

Frying is usually objectionable because the fat in 
which the meat is cooked produces an excess of vola- 
tile acids; moreover, it is often burnt, and thus changed 
in character and rendered indigestible, causing flatu- 
lence and heartburn. If, however, it be skilfully 
done, frying is a wholesome form of cooking food. 
The skill consists in frying lightly, quickly, and 
evenly, and with constant motion, so that the oil is 
not allowed to burn. A perfectly clean frying-pan ; a 
clear, smokeless fire ; good, pure, clean fat or clarified 
dripping, or a small quantity of oil, or genuine fresh 
butter, are essential. The fat should actually boil, and 
the meat, fish, and vegetables should be turned about 
till they are lightly cooked without being scorched, 
then served hot with all the oil drained away ; they 
are then nice and wholesome for most persons. 

Boiling. — There is a vast difference between boiling 
meat which is to be eaten, and meat whose juices are 
to be extracted for soup. In the former case the 
juices have to be kept in, in the latter drawn out. 
Slow boiling of a joint makes excellent nourishing 



BOILING— STE WING. 2 1 3 

soup, but spoils the meat by extracting all the good- 
ness. Quick boiling also spoils the joint by hardening 
all the fibres. It should be plunged into boiling water, 
and kept at boiling temperature for five or ten minutes; 
cold water should then be added to reduce it to about 
165°, at which it should be maintained for the whole 
period of cooking. By the contraction and coagula- 
tion of albumen caused by the first plunge, the internal 
juice is prevented from Escaping into the surround- 
ing water, or from being diluted by its entrance 
through the pores. Mutton and fish should be boiled 
in hard water, water to which salt has been added, or 
sea water. The scum which rises on the top of 
the water while meat is being boiled is always useless 
and unwholesome, and should be removed as com- 
pletely as possible. Vegetables are best when boiled ; 
they should be thoroughly cooked, so as to become 
soft, then strained in a cullender, and served as free 
from water as possible. Cabbages and carrots can 
hardly be boiled too long. Soft watef is essential for 
veget-ables ; steaming them is a form of boiling them 
in soft water. 

Stewing occupies a middle position between roast- 
ing and boiling. The meat sliould be covered with 
cold water, then heated up and kept simmering, not 
boiling, till thoroughly done. The nutritive materialo 
are diffused through the solid and lirjuid, which arc 
then served up together. JIashing is the same process 
with meat previously cooked. But hashed, or other- 
wise twice-cooked meat, is very unwholesome. 



214 PREPARATION OF FOOD! 

There is another method of cooking, by which the 
meat is stewed in its own vapour alone. The meat is 
placed in a covered jar, the jar is put into water in a 
saucepan, and the water is made to simmer, and when 
a sufficient time has elapsed, the meat is done, 
quite tender, and well adapted to the invalid. War- 
ren's cooking pot is constructed to prepare meat in 
this way. 

Soups, Broths, etc. — If it is desirable to extract 
the nutriment so that it may be given in the form of 
broth^ the meat should be finely chopped or minced, 
put into cold water, soaked for a short time, then 
gradually heated to a temperature just below boiling 
point, at which it should be kept for half an hour or 
more. But if soup be wanted, the heating should go 
on to boiling point, and maintained there, in order 
that the gelatine may be extracted to solidify the 
soup. It should be carefully observed that the 
minced meat should be put into cold water for a time, 
never into boiling water at first. The leanest meat 
is the best for soup-making ; the least particle of fat 
is out of place in broth or soups, and indeed 
renders it absolutely unwholesome as well as nauseous. 
Bones which require long boiling yield abundant 
gelatine. 

Salting meat makes it less nutritious, not by the 
addition of salt, but by the removal of the fluids 
and salts by the brine. The dried flesh is difficult of 
solution by the digestive secretions. Soaking in water 
softens it and removes the salt, but does not restore 



COOKING UTENSILS TO BE KEPT CLEAN. 215 

the nutritive value. The longer the salt remains in 
the tissues, the harder they become. Drying is less 
prejudicial to the meat ; when the process is completed 
the meat becomes no worse until the decomposition sets 
in. Smoking imparts a flavour to dried meat which 
many prefer. Meat preserved in tins is too much 
cooked to be very digestible. It contains a good 
measure of nutritive elements, and is economical, 
but is not agreeable to every palate. It is best eaten 
only warmed up, not cooked again, and served with 
macaroni or vegetables. 

The utensils employed in the preparation of food 
should be kept scrupulously clean. Cooks do not seem 
to be aware how often their dishes are unpalatable, 
and therefore unwholesome, solely from being pre- 
pared in a vessel which has a disagreeable flavour 
remaining in it. Those Hned with porcelain should 
ahvays be used in preference to those of plain iron or 
tin, which are not so easily cleaned, and are therefore 
likely to affect the flavour of the food. Still it must 
be admitted that they burn more easily, so that with- 
out close watching it is very difticult to boil milk 
in them. Soap is sometimes employed in washing 
pots instead of soda ; and it is deemed sufficient to 
wipe out a saucepan with a dish-cloth, when it should 
be scrubbed out with a hard brush or metal shavings. 
The grease of the soap and cloth adhere to the 
metal, and its rankness spoils the delicate flavour of 
something intended to tempt the appetite, or satisfy 
the fastidious digestion of an invalid. Especially is 



2l6 PREPARATION OF FOOD. 

it important that anything with strong and persistent 
odour, such as onions, garHc, or shalot, sliould be 
cleansed from vessels, knives, etc., before they are 
used for another purpose. Food is one of those 
things that should come unexpectedly to the patient 3 
a present of game from a friend is always a matter 
for delight and surprise. Grea,t care should be 
taken that no unpleasant flavour adheres to tFf&\ 
food, and especially should scorching be avoided ; 
volatile extracts or oils should not be employed for 
flavouring, the juice of stewed or preserved fruits is 
far preferable. 

In cooking animal food about one-fourth of the 
weight is usually lost by the process ; but the loss 
varies with the quality of the meat and the process 
employed. Dr. Letheby estimates the loss at the 
following percentages: — 





Boiling. 


Baking. Roasting. 


Beef, generally 


..; 20 


29 31 


Mutton, generally . . . 


... 20 


31 35 


„ Legs 


... 20 


32 33 


J, Shoulders . . . 


... 24 


32 34 


,, Loins 


... 30 


33 36 


„ Necks 


... 25 


32 34 



Average 23 31 34 

The loss arises principally from evaporation of 
water, the escape of fat and nutritive juice, and the 
destructive action of heat. According to Dr. Letheby 
it is least in boiling, greatest in roasting, because 



LIEBIG'S EXTRACT. 217 

in the former process there is no evaporation of 
water. This suggests that in the baking and roasting, 
endeavour should be made to prevent evaporation. 
Indeed, the perfection cf cooking is to retain as much 
as possible of the constituent elements of the meat, 
and this is accomplished in the different methods 
adopted by subjecting the meat at first to a strong, 
quick heat, which contracts the fibres, coagulates the 
albumen at the surface, and thus closes up the pores 
by which the nutritious juices would escape. A 
lower and less rapidly acting heat will then suffice ; 
for thereafter the cooking goes on through the 
agency of the natural moisture of the flesh. Con- 
verted into vapour by the heat, a kind of steaming 
takes place, so that whether in the oven, on the spit, 
or in the midst of boiling water, the meat is in reality 
cooked by its own steam. When properly prepared, 
instead of being dried up or insipid, the meat will 
be full of its own juice, which will flow forth as rich 
gravy at the first cut. 

Liebig's Extract of Meat. — One small teaspoon- 
ful, dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, forms a 
substitute for beef-tea when there is neither time to 
make the tea, nor convenience for making it properly. 
But to it should be added broth in which bones have 
been boiled, or some farinaceous substances, such as 
arrowroot, sago, or tapioca, which have been tho- 
roughly boiled. By itself the extract is more stimu- 
lating than nourishing, and is especially beneficial in 
cases of muscular exhaustion. It may prove useful in 

P 



2i8 RECIPES, 

exhausting fevers or in debility of the heart. Its stinau- 
lating effect is not followed by the reaction which 
attends alcoholic drinks. 

A teaspoonful of Liebig's extract in half a pint of 
barley-water, with a pinch of salt and flavouring, is 
very nourishing. A teacupful of milk in addition will 
make it more so. And a greater improvement is 
made when for the milk are substituted the whites ot 
two eggs, beaten up with two tablespoonfuls of milk, 
and stirred in when the barley is sufiiciently cool to 
be eaten. 

Beef-Tea. — i . Haifa pound (or a pound, according 
to the strength required) of rump steak should be cut 
up into small pieces and put into a covered enamelled 
saucepan with one pint of cold water. Let this stand 
in a cool place for several hours, and let it then 
simmer gently for two hours. Skim well, and serve. 
As grease is always repugnant to invalids it may be 
removed by lightly skimming the surface with pieces of 
white blotting-paper. If there be time, it is better to 
let the beef-tea get quite cold, and then remove the 
cake of fat. 

2. The same proportions of beef and water, placed 
in an earthen vessel, lightly covered, and allowed to 
stand in a saucepanful of hot water near the fire for 
several hours, is a plan much commended. 

3. Heat the meat and water gradually to the boiling- 
point, and then strain immediately. 

4. In order to make beef-tea, or any extract of 
meat, quickly, economically, and of a certain required 



BEEF TEA. 219 

Strength, Dr. Leared recommends the use of a 
receiver having an air-tight screw-cover with safety- 
valve and a boiler, similar to a Papin's digester. A 
small quantity of the beverage may be prepared as 
follows : — One pound of beef, divested of fat, bone, and 
gristle, and cut into very small pieces, should be put 
into the receiver, adding eight ounces of water, the 
cover screwed tightly on, and the receiver placed in the 
boiler, which has been filled with water. It should boil 
for three hours, the receiver should then be removed, 
and when sufficiently cool, the cover unscrewed. After 
squeezing the meat, now a tasteless mass, thirteen 
ounces of beef-tea, without any loss of aroma, and 
three times stronger than that prepared in the ordinary 
way, will be obtained. As experiments prove that one 
pound of beef will yield five ounces of meat-juice, the 
extract can be more or less concentrated by regulating 
the proportion of water. The preparation can be 
made in one-third of the time if salt be added to the 
water in the boiler. The extract of course becomes 
gelatinous, and consolidates on cooling, when bones or 
the sinewy parts of meat are used ; but gelatine, con- 
trary to tlie popularly received opinion, is compara- 
tively unimportant in nutrition. 

5. Shred a pound of gravy beef (witli sausage 
machine if possible) ; place it in a jar and add a 
salt-spoonful of salt, place the jar in a saucepan 
so large that it may be covered with the lid. Mix 
exactly equal quantities of boiling and cold water ; 
and of this put half a pint into the jar which 



220 RECIPES. 

contains the meat, and so much in the saucepan 
around the jar as to reach as high as the water 
inside the jar. Cover the saucepan with the lid, 
and place it on the hearth, or where the heat of 
the water will be maintained ; but not on the 
fire or hob, where it will be increased. Stir the 
meat every ten minutes or quarter of an hour; and 
in three quarters of an hour to an hour (if the meat 
has been minced in the machine) or longer, according 
to the fineness of the shredding, the first process of 
extraction will be completed ; the jar should be taken 
out, the juice strained off through a hair sieve or 
muslin, and set aside. The albumen, which coagulates 
at 135°, is thus secured. The meat left in the sieve 
should now be put into the saucepan with a quart of 
boiling water, covered, and slowly simmered for three 
hours ; then boiled up and strained at once. The 
liquor strained off should be boiled down to half a- 
pint, and when cooled down, mix with the other half- 
pint set aside. The result is a pint of strong beef- 
tea, with all the soluble portion of the meat, and the 
albumen uncoagulated, ready for use. The fat may 
be removed while warm by white blotting-paper, or 
when cold in the solid cake. The beef-tea should be 
warmed up by placing what is required in a cup, and 
setting the cup in a basin of boiling water ; but water 
should not be mixed with it (except to dilute it), nor 
should it be put on the fire to boil. Flavouring may be 
added to taste. Colouring may be given by putting a 
thin slice of bro\vn toast or a small piece of burnt onion 
in the saucepan, when the meat is set on to boil. 



BEEF JUICE. 221 

Card's Extractor. 

The meat used in any preparation for invalids 
should be as fresh as possible, — and should be divested 
beforehand of all fat or gristle. If this precaution be 
neglected, a greasy taste is given to beef-tea, which 
cannot afterwards be completely removed. In re- 
warming beef-tea which has been left to cool, care must 
be taken to warm the tea up to the point at which it is 
to be served, and no higher ; this is best done, not by 
putting it on the fire, but in a covered vessel placed 
in hot water. When once allowed to get cold, it never 
regains the agreeable flavour it possessed when fresh. 

Rice (whole or ground), pearl-barley, vermicelli, 
sago, or tapioca may often be advantageously added 
to thicken beef-tea. 

Beef Juice. — i. Take a pound of rump steak, or 
leg of beef, cut it up into pieces the size of dice ; put 
it into a pint of cold water, into which mix twenty 
drops of dilute hydrochloric acid and half a tea- 
spoonful of salt. Cover up and let it stand in a cool 
place for two hours. Strain off the liquor (pressing 
the meat), and gently simmer for ten minutes. A 
table-spoonful will give more nourishment to a patient 
than a cupful of ordinary beef-tea. In extreme cases 
it might be given without being cooked. Beef juice 
combined with albumen (white of egg) yields much 
sustenance in Enteric fever. 

2. Shred the beef and put it into a jar {jio ivatcr) ; 
tie up close, and put the jar into a saucepan of water, 



222 RECIPES. 

and let it simmer. Give the invalid one or two spoon- 
fuls at a time ; keep the jar in hot water. Make fresh 
when all goodness is extracted. 

Beef Essence. — This is prepared as follows : — 
A pound of lean beef, free from skin, bone, and fat, 
should be cut up into small squares, put into a large 
earthen jar with cover, the edges cemented with flour 
paste, or the cover tied down tight with several thick- 
nesses of paper ; tied up tightly in a cloth ; put into a 
saucepan so that the top of the jar is not reached by 
the water, and boiled from one to two hours ; the liquid 
essence should be poured off from the coagulated 
muscle, let stand till cold, and the fat skimmed off. 
This contains a large quantity of nutriment, is gene- 
rally pleasant to the palate, and is particularly valuable 
in extreme exhaustion. A few tea-spoonfuls may be 
given every one, two, or four hours. 

Beef Pulp. — Instead of raw minced beef, often 
recommended, scraped beef is far more easily digested, 
as it is free from sinews, and it is more palatable. It 
may be prepared as follows : — Take a piece of steak 
cut like a little block, scrape the surface with a silver 
spoon until all the pulp is extracted, then cut a slice 
off the steak and scrape the newly cut surface again. 
One or two table-spoonfuls of the pulp may be given 
at a time to an adult. A dessert-spoonful may be 
given for one meal to children, mixed with red currant 
jelly, or spread as a sandwich between bread. In the 
latter case it requires a sprinkling of salt and some 
pepper. Pulp thus prepared has been taken with great 



MUTTON BROTH. 223 

benefit in Dyspepsia, chronic Diarrhoea, and weakness 
following a long illness. It has also been given to 
consumptive patients with great advantage. 

Mutton Broth. — i. This may be made in a similar 
manner to beef-tea, either plain or thickened. For 
this purpose, the best part of the sheep is the scrag 
end of the neck, free from skin and fat, bruised and 
cut into small pieces. 

2. Mutton broth may be made either plain or 
thickened, according to the taste of the patient. 
Bermuda arrouTOOt is an agreeable ingredient for 
thickening. Take half-a-pound of the scrag end of 
neck of mutton ; strip off all fat and skin ; bruise 
thoroughly the meat and bone together with a chop- 
per ; then place the meat in a hollow dish, with just 
enough cold water (from a vessel previously contain- 
ing a pint) to moisten the solid matter ; add a tea- 
spoonful of salt ; cover over with a flat dish, and set 
aside for three-quarters of an hour j then remove the 
liquor and meat into a stew-pan, and add the re- 
mainder of the water ; place the stew-pan upon the 
hob, close to the fire, until the contents just simmer) 
when begin to skim by passing three sheets of clean 
white paper over the surface. Maintain the simmer- 
ing heat for an hour and a half, and strain through a 
hair sieve. 

Veal Broth. — Veal broth is barely palatable with- 
out the addition of a little vegetable. Take twelve 
ounces of good knuckle of veal, quite fresh ; strip off 
all skin and fat; bruise the meat and bone together 



224 RECIPES. 

witli a chopper ; place in a hollow dish, and add a 
tea-spoonful of salt, and just cold water enough to 
moisten the meat (from a vessel previously containing 
a quart) ; cover over, and stand aside for twenty 
minutes ; then add the remainder of the water (from 
the vessel just mentioned) ; put the whole into a stew- 
pan on the hob, close to the fire ; watch until it sim- 
mers, skim as directed for mutton broth. INIaintain 
the liquor at just simmering heat for an hour and 
a half, skimming cautiously ; then pour off, strain 
through a hair sieve, and prepare the vegetables. If 
no vegetables are to be used, cut up two very thin 
crisp slices of dry toast into small pieces ; put them 
into a large breakfast cup or small broth basin, fill up 
wth the hot liquor, add ten drops of lemon-juice, and 
serve. 

Calf's Foot Broth. — Put a thoroughly cleaned 
calt's foot with a little lemon-peel in three pints of • 
water ; simmer for three hours ; then boil down to a 
pint and strain. Remove the fat when cold. For 
use, melt, have a pint of the broth ; add an egg well 
beaten up with a little white powdered sugar, not 
more than half an ounce of butter, and a Httle grated 
nutmeg ; stir these in the broth till it thickens, and 
serve at once. It should not boil. 

Chicken Broth. — Chicken broth may be either 
served plain or thickened^ If plain, it will always re- 
quire a few slips of thin, crisp dry toast to render it 
palatable ; for otherwise it is exceedingly insipid. 
Take a full-grown young chicken, picked, drawn, and 



VEAL SOUP— GRAVY SOUP. 225 

skinned ; cut in halves, and to one half add half a pint 
of water ; place in a hollow dish or basin ; cover over 
and set aside for twenty minutes ; then add a tea- 
spoonful of salt and a pint more water ; place the 
whole in a clean saucepan upon the hob, near the fire ; 
watch till it simmers, and immediately begin to skim 
as directed for mutton broth. Maintain at a simmer- 
ing heat for an hour and a half, skimming continually ; 
pour off, and strain through a hair sieve. 

Veal Soup. — A knuckle of veal, two cow-heels, a 
glass of sherr)', two quarts of water and twelve pepper- 
corns. Stew in a covered earthen jar for six hours. 
Do not open it till cold, then skim off the fat and 
strain. Serve ver)' hot. 

Gravy Soup. — Take a little carrot, turnip, onion, 
and celer}', with a clove and pepper ; boil the whole 
gently, and strain, and, for each half-pint of liquor add 
a table -spoonful of extract of meat, with a little salt. 

Barley Soup. — One pound of shin of beef, four 
ounces of pearl barley, one potato, salt and pepper to 
taste, one quart and a half of water. Put all the 
ingredients into a pan, and simmer gently for four 
hours. Strain, return the barley, and heat up as much 
as required. A small onion may be added if not 
objected to. 

Sardinian Soup. — Take two eggs, beat them up 
and put in a stew-pan, add a quarter of a pint of 
cream, one ounce of fresh butter, salt and pepper to 
taste, and as much flour as will bring it to the con- 
sistency of dough. Make the mixture into balls the 



226 RECIPES. 

size and shape of a nut, fry in butter, and put them 
into any sort of broth or soup, to which they make a 
very nice addition. 

Baked Soup. — Cut a pound of lean beef into slices, 
add one ounce of rice, pepper and salt to taste, place 
in a jar with a pint and a half of water, cover closely, 
and bake for four hours. If preferred, pearl barley 
may be substituted for rice. 

Egg Soup. — Over a slow fire beat up the yolks of 
two eggs, a piece of butter as large as a big walnut, 
and sugar to taste, with one pint of water, the water 
being gradually added as the ingredients become 
intimately mixed. As soon as the preparation begins 
to boil, pour it backwards and forwards to and from 
the saucepan and jug, till it is quite smooth and 
frothy. 

Lentil Soup. — Mix a table-spoonful of lentil flour 
and a tea-spoonful of corn flour with a little milk, till ' 
as thick as cream. Boil three-quarters of a pint of 
milk sweetened and flavoured to taste ; pour this 
sloiuly on the flour and milk, stirring meanwhile. 
Boil all together for ten minutes, still stirring. A 
whipped egg afterwards added will improve the soup. 
Salt may be substituted for sugar. This is a most 
nourishing albuminous food, and a good substitute for 
beef-tea. 

Eggs, Cream, and Extract of Beef. — Wash two 
ounces of the best pearl sago until the water poured 
from it is clear ; then stew the sago in half a pint of 
water until it is quite tender and very thick; mix 



EGG FLIP. 227 

with it half a pint of good boiling cream and the yolks 
of four fresh eggs, and mingle the whole carefully 
with one quart of good beef-tea, which should be 
boiling. This broth is very useful in cases of lingering 
convalescence after acute disease. 

Egg and Wine. — i. Beat an egg with a fork till it 
froths, add a lump of sugar and two table-spoonfuls of 
water; mix well, pour in a wine-glassful of sherry, 
serve before it gets flat. Half the quantity of brandy 
or whisky may be used instead of sherry. 

2. Beat one egg to a froth with a table-spoonful 
of cold water ; make a glass and a half of water and 
a glass of sherry hot, but not boiling ; pour this on the 
egg, stirring all the time ; add sufficient sugar to 
sweeten. Put all into a lined saucepan, set it on a 
gentle fire, and stir it one way till it thickens, but do 
not let it boil. Serve in a glass, with crisp biscuits or 
"fingers" of toast. 

Egg Pudding. — Beat up one egg with a tea-spoon- 
ful of flour and suflUcient milk to fill a basin rather 
larger than a teacup ; tie the basin and contents in a 
cloth, and boil for twenty minutes. Milk, sugar, or 
red gravy may be added when served. 

Minced Fowl AND Egg.— Remove all skin and bone 
from a cold roast fowl, mince the flesh ; put bones, 
skin, and trimmings into a stew-pan, with one small 
onion, if agreeable to the patient, and half a i)int of 
water, let this stew for an hour, then strain the licjuor. 
Chop a hard-boiled egg small and mix with the mince, 
salt and pepper to taste, three table-spoonfuls of new 



228 RECIPES. 

milk or cream, half an ounce of butter, one table- 
spoonful of flour, and a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice ; 
to this add the gravy, let the whole just boil, and serve 
with sippets of toasted bread. 

Panada. — Take the crumb of a stale French roll, 
soak it in milk for half an hour, then squeeze the milk 
from it ; have ready an equal quantity of cold cooked 
chicken or lean sirloin of beef or loin of mutton scraped 
very fine with a knife ; pound the bread crumbs and 
meat together in a mortar ; season to taste ; cook either 
with veal or chicken broth, in a tin put in a warm 
oven, or poach like an egg. Serve on mashed potato. 

Potato Surprise. — Scoop out the inside of a 
sound potato, leaving the skin attached on one side of 
the hole, as a lid. Mince up finely the lean of a 
juicy mutton chop, with a little salt and pepper, put 
it in the potato, pin down the lid, and bake or roast. 
Before serving (in the skin) add a little hot gravy if 
the mince seems too dry. 

Stewed Eels. — Wash and skin an eel, cut it in 
pieces two inches long, pepper and salt them and lay 
in a stew-pan, pour on them half a pint of strong stock 
and half a glass of port wine, stew gently for half an 
hour, lift the pieces carefully on to a very hot dish and 
place by the fire, strain the gravy and have ready two 
table-spoonfuls of cream mixed with sufficient flour to 
thicken it, stir this into the gravy, boil for two 
minutes, and then add a little cayenne. Pour over 
the eels and serve. Sometimes the addition of a little 
lemon-juice is gratifying to the palate. 



FRIED SOLES. 229 



Fried Soles. — Skin them, wash and wipe them dr}% 
dip them in beaten egg, then strew over with bread 
crumbs. Have ready a pan of fine olive oil, and be 
sure it boils before you put in the soles ; fry a light 
brown and turn over once ; lay them on napkins for 
the oil to drain off, serve with plain melted butter. 

Broiled Soles. — Skin them, wash and wipe dry, 
broil on a gridiron over a clear fire ; a very little butter 
may be smeared over the surface to prevent it catching 
too quickly. Serve with melted butter. 

Stewed Oysters. — Half a pint of oysters, half an 
ounce of butter, flour, one-third of a pint of cream, 
and salt to taste. Scald the oysters in their own 
liquor, take them out, beard them, and strain the 
liquor. Put the butter into a stew-pan, dredge in 
sufficient flour to dry it up, add the oyster liquor, and 
stir it with a wooden spoon over a sharp fire. When 
it boils, add the cream, oysters, and seasoning, and 
simmer for one or two minutes, but 7iot longer^ or the 
oysters will harden. Serve on a hot dish, with croutons 
or toasted sippets of bread. A quarter of a pint of 
oysters, the other ingredients being in proportion, 
make a dish large enough for one person. 

Suet and Milk. — i. Put a table-spoonful of 
shredded beef-suet into half a pint of fresh milk ; 
warm it sufficiently to completely melt the suet, skim 
it, then pour it into a warm glass or cup, and drink 
before it cools. This recipe will be found valuable in 
cases where fat is essential, for xveakly children, neuralgic 
patients, also in falling off of the hair. 



230 RECIPES. 

2. Chop an ounce of suet very fine, tie it loosely in 
a muslin bag, and boil it slowly in a quart of new 
milk ; sweeten with white sugar. An excellent food in 
some cases of Tabes ineseriterica, etc., or zvherc t/te 
unpleasant odour of goaf s viilk prevents its being taken. 

Suet and Barley-Water. — Chop an ounce of 
suet very fine, tie it loosely in a muslin bag. Place 
this in a pint of thin barley-water, with a quarter of 
an ounce of isinglass, or gelatine, and a little sugar ; 
and boil all together for an hour, adding warm water 
occasionally as it boils away. Pour the barley-water 
on a dozen sweet almonds, pounded fine, and mix 
well Then strain. 

Lime-Water and Milk. — Lime-water, two tea- 
spoonfuls to half a tumblerful of milk. Add a little 
sugar to taste. This compound will often be 7-etained 
when the stoinach rejects all other kinds of food. The 
sa7ne may be said of milk a?id soda-water in equal pro- ' 
portions. 

Artificial Ass's and Goat's Milk. — Take half 
an ounce of gelatine, and dissolve it in half a pint of 
hot barley-water. Then add an ounce of refined sugar, 
and pour into the mixture a pint of good new cow's 
milk. 

Milk, Rum, and Isinglass. — Dissolve in a little 
hot water over the fire a pinch of the best isinglass ; 
let it cool ; mix with it in a tumbler a dessert- 
spoonful of rum, and fill up the glass with warm new 
milk. 

Toast is rarely made well. Bread burnt on both 



BREAD PUDDING. 231 

surfaces, with the inside spongy, is unwholesome food. 
It should be of moderate thickness, slowly and tho- 
roughly baked through, nicely browned on the outside 
— in short, not toasted too fast. Such toast is whole- 
some to eat or to soak in water. 

Bread-crumb Pudding. — Put a thin slice of bread 
into a cool oven, and when perfectly dry roll it till it 
becomes a fine dust. Beat up one new-laid egg with 
a dessert-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar ; add three 
table-spoonfuls of new milk, put in the crumbs, and 
beat the mixture well up for ten minutes. Put the 
pudding in a basin previously rubbed with butter; 
now tie a cloth tightly over, place it in boiling water, 
and boil for thirty minutes. 

Bread Pudding. — i. Part of a stale loaf of bread, 
boiled, and served with butter and salt, or with pre- 
serves, affords a change of wholesome food. Bread 
puddings made with eggs and milk, either boiled or 
baked, may be made according to the receipt used at 
Westminster Hospital : — Bread, \ lb. ; milk, \ pint ; 
sugar, \ oz. ; flour, .[ oz. ; i egg for every 2 lb. Pud- 
dings made in the same way of stale sponge cakes, or 
rusks, diversify the diet. 

2. Pour half a pint of boiling milk on a French 
roll. Cover close and let it stand till it has soaked uj) 
all the milk. Tie up lightly in a cloth and boil for a 
quarter of an hour. Turn it out on a plate and 
sprinkle a little sugar-candy over it. The addition of 
burnt sugar or tincture of saffron will give it the 
orthodox yellow colour. 



232 RECIPES. 

Macaroni. — Wash two ounces of macaroni, boil it 
in a quarter of a pint of milk and the same quantity 
of good beef gravy till quite tender. Drain, and put 
the macaroni on a very hot dish and place by the fire. 
Have ready the yolk of an egg beaten with two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, and two table-spoonfuls of the 
liquor the macaroni was boiled in ; add half an ounce 
of butter. Make this sufficiently hot to thicken, but 
do not allow it to boil ; pour it over the macaroni, and 
strew over the whole a little finely grated Parmesan 
cheese, or the macaroni may be served as an accom- 
paniment to minced beef without the cheese ; or it 
may be taken alone with some good gravy. 

Macaroni Pudding. — Three ounces of macaroni 
should be soaked for forty minutes in cold water, well 
mashed, then added to a pint of boiling milk. This 
should be stirred occasionally, while it simmers for 
half an hour ; then two eggs added, beaten up with a 
dessert-spoonful of sugar ; also, if desired, a flavouring 
of lemon. This may then be baked in a pie-dish for 
twenty minutes. Vermicelli may be used instead of 
macaroni, but requires only twenty minutes' 
soaking. 

Boiled Rice. — Put one teacupful of rice into a 
saucepan with one-fourth of a cupful of water, cover, 
and place it over a good fire ; after an hour the water 
will be evaporated, and the rice cooked tender but 
dry, and with the grains distinct, not in a paste. 
Sufficient salt should be added in the first place, and 
care should be taken not to disturb the rice when 



GROUND RICE PUDDING. 233 

cooking. By adding a little butter and allowing the 
rice to dry a little more, a more delicate dish is pre- 
pared. 

Ground^Rice Pudding. — Boil half a pint of new 
milk with two ounces of loaf sugar; moisten two 
table-spoonfuls of ground-rice v/ith three of cold milk. 
When this is well mixed, then stir the boiling milk 
into it ; put into a clean saucepan, and stir over the 
fire for twelve minutes, and then let it get cold. 
Beat three new-laid eggs, yolks and whites separately \ 
Btir the yolks with the rice, and if allowed by the me- 
dical man, two table-spoonfuls of cream. Beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, add them and beat the mixture 
for five minutes. Rub a pie-dish with butter, pour in 
the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for some 
eighteen minutes, then serve at once. 

Rice Cream. — To a pint of new milk add a quarter 
of a pound of ground rice, a lump of butter the size of 
a walnut, a little lemon-peel, and a table-spoonful of 
powdered sugar. Boil them together for five minutes, 
then add half an ounce of isinglass which has been 
dissolved, and let the mixture cool. When cool add 
half a pint of good cream whisked to a froth, mix all 
together, and set it for a time in a very cool place or 
on ice; when used, turn it out of the basin into a dish, 
and pour fruit juice round it, or some stewed apple or 
pear may be served with it. 

Pearl Barley. — i. It should be boiled for four 
hours, so tied in a clQ|;h that room is left for the grain 
%Q §we|l. Only sQ much W^Vtej: should be added from 





234 RECIPES. 

time to time as to feed the barley and supply the waste 
of evaporation, lest the goodness of the barley should 
be boiled out. It may be served with milk, or (if the 
patient can digest them) with preserves or butter. 

2. Put the barley with water in a stone jar with a 
lid, place the jar in the oven ; and let the contents 
boil gently until the barley is very soft ; then strain. 

Gruel. — i. A dessert-spoonful of prepared groats 
or fine oatmeal to be moistened with a table-spoonful 
of cold water, and stirred till smooth ; then add, by 
degrees, three quarters of a pint of boiling water, and 
stir over the fire till it boils, then let it simmer for 
eight or ten minutes. A little salt or sugar and 
butter may be added according to the taste of the in- 
valid. Boiling milk may be added instead of water ; 
but it must be constantly stirred. 

2. Beat up an egg to a froth, add a wine-glass ot 
sherry, flavour with a lump of sugar and a strip 
of lemon-peel, and have ready some gruel, very smooth 
and hot, stir in the wine and egg, and serve with 
sippets of crisp toast. Arrowroot may be made in the 
same way. 

Porridge. — Always use coarsely ground Scotch 
oatmeal. Mix two table-spoonfuls of it with a small 
tea-cupful of cold water till it is of uniform consist- 
ence. Then pour in a pint of boiling water, and 
keep boiling and stirring it for forty minutes. It is 
then fit for use, but may be kept simmering till wanted 
if more boiling water be added as the other steams 
away. It should be served in a soup-plate quite hot ; 



ARROWROOT— SAGO. 235 

cold milk may be taken with it. Butter may also be 
added to taste, if not contra-indicated. Most Scotch 
people sprinkle the meal into boiling water. 

Arrowroot. — Moisten two tea-spoonfuls of arrow- 
root with two table-spoonfuls of cold milk. When it 
is quite smooth pour in half a pint of boiling milk ; 
then place it in a bright saucepan, and stir over the 
fire for three or four minutes. Two or three tea- 
spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar may be added to 
sweeten it. Wine or brandy will frequently be pre- 
scribed with arrowroot ; it must of course be added in 
the proportions ordered. 

Sago. — Put a dessert-spoonful of sago into three- 
quarters of a pint of cold milk, and simmer gently, 
stirring frequently for an hour and a quarter ; skim as 
it approaches boiling, and sweeten with a dessert- 
spoonful of powdered loaf sugar. 

Tapioca and Cod-Liver. — Boil a quarter of a 
pound of tapioca till tender in two quarts of water ; 
drain it in a colander, then put it back in the pan ; 
season with a little salt and pepper, add half a pint of 
milk, one pound of fresh cod-liver cut in eight pieces. 
Set the pan near the fire to simmer slowly for half an 
hour, or a little more, till the liver is quite cooked. 
Press on it with a spoon, so as to get as much oil 
into the tapioca as possible. After taking away the 
liver, mix the tapioca. If too thick add a little milk, 
then boil a few minutes, stir round ; salt and pepper 
to taste. — Alexis Soyer. Tapioca thus cooked is nourish- 
ing and easily digested. 



236 EECIFES. 

Carrot Pap. — In Bednar's Kinder-Krankheiten 
the following formula occurs for carrot pap, which is 
strongly recommended for children suffering from 
scrofula, rickets, and worms; and is also suitable 
for patients recovering from acute diseases, and for 
dyspeptics. 

An ounce of finely grated carrot should be put into 
half a pint of cold soft water, and should stand twelve 
hours, being frequently stirred ; it should then be 
strained through a sieve, and all the juice pressed out. 
This juice is then to be thickened with grated bread 
or arrowroot, and to be set upon a slow fire. After 
boiling up once or twice it should be sweetened, and 
is then ready for use. 

The juice of the carrot combined with plain water, 
biscuits, or crusts of bread, contains all the material 
that is necessary for the nourishment of weaned 
children or weakly persons — albumen, starch, gelatine, 
sugar, fat, and salt, and finally even the phosphate of 
lime and phosphate of magnesia. In the preparation 
of this food the greatest cleanliness must be observed. 
The juice must be prepared fresh every day, and 
must, moreover, be carefully watched, lest fermentation 
ensue. The large and full-grown carrots are prefer- 
able to the young and small. 

Bread Jelly. — i. Take the crumb of a loaf, cover 
it with boiling water, and allow it to soak for some 
hours. The water, containing all the noxious matters 
with which the bread may be adulterated, is then to 
be strained off completely and fresh added j place the 



BREAD JELLY. 237 



mixture on the fire and allow it to boil for some time 
till it is perfectly smooth. The water is then to be 
pressed out, and the bread on cooling will form a thick 
jelly. Flavour wth anything agreeable. — Dr. Churchill. 
A good food for infants at the time of weaning, also 
for children with acute diseases. 

2. Cut off the top of a twopenny loaf. Cut the 
remaining part into thin slices, and toast them of a 
pale brown, very hard. Put the bread thus toasted 
into nearly three pints of water and boil 7-ery gently, 
until you find it well set, which you will know by 
holding a little in a spoon ; strain it off very carefully, 
without breaking the bread, or the jelly will be thick. 
Sweeten to your taste. It never disagrees with and 
is very good for infants. 

Pearl Barley Jelly. — If pearl barley be boiled 
for six hours, then strained off, the water on cooling 
will form a nutritive jelly, which dissolves readily in 
warm milk. It is very well adapted to infants. 

Nutritive Jelly. — Isinglass, i oz. ; gum arabic, 
\ oz. ; white sugar-candy, i oz. ; port wine, i pint ; 
i nutmeg, grated. These should be put into a jar to 
stand twelve hours, covered tightly to prevent eva- 
poration, then placed in a saucepan with sufficient 
water to simmer till the contents of the jar are quite 
melted ; the whole should be stirred, then allowed to 
stand till cool. A teaspoonful occasionally is very 
reviving. 

Orange or Wine Jelly.— A small packet of pre- 
pared gelatine sliould be soaked in one pint of cold 



238 RECIFES. 

water for an hour or more ; three pints of boiUng water 
sliould then be added with a pound and a half of sugar, 
the juice and grated rind of three or four oranges ; the 
whole should be stirred together until the gelatine is 
dissolved and intermixed, strained through a clean 
cloth (jellybag), and allowed to cool. 

If wine jelly be preferred, it may be made in the 
same manner, adding sherry, madeira, or other pure 
Avine instead of oranges, and proportionately lessening 
the quantity of water. 

Invalid's Jelly. — Soak twelve shanks of mutton 
in plenty of water for some hours, clean well, put them 
into a saucepan with one pound of lean beef, a bunch 
of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, one onion 
and a crust of bread toasted brown ; add three quarts 
of water and let them simmer gently for five hours. 
Strain the broth, when cold take off all the fat. 

Tapioca Jelly. — The tapioca should be soaked in 
cold water for several hours, and then cooked until 
perfectly clear, adding more water if necessary. When 
done sweeten to taste, and flavour with vanilla, lemon, 
or wine. When cold serve plain or with cream. 

Chicken Jelly. — Half a raw chicken, pounded 
with a mallet, bones and all together ; cold water to 
cover it well ; heat slowly in a covered vessel, and let 
it simmer until the meat is in white rags and the liquid 
reduced one-half; strain and press through a coarse 
cloth ; season to taste, return to the fire, and simmer 
five minutes longer ; skim when cool. Give to the 
patient cold, with unleavened wafers. 



ARROWROOT JELLY. 239 

Arrowroot Jelly. — One cup of boiling water, two 
teaspoonfuls of Bermuda arrowroot, one tcaspoonful 
of lemon-juice, two teaspoonfuls of white sugar. Wet 
the arrowroot in a little cold water and rub smooth ; 
then stir into the hot water, which should be on the 
fire and actually boiling at the time, with the sugar 
already melted in it ; stir until clear, boiling steadily 
all the time, and add the lemon. Wet a cup in cold 
water, and pour in the jelly to form. Eat cold with 
sugar and cream. 

Arrowroot Wine Jelly.— One cup of boiling 
water, two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot, two teaspoonfuls 
of white sugar, one table-spoonful of brandy or three 
of wine. Proceed as with the recipe for arrowroot 
jelly. 

Jelly Water. — One large teaspoonful of black- 
berry jelly, one tumbler of ice-water; beat up well. 
Excellent for fever patients, or those suffering from 
gastric irritation. 

Iceland Moss Jelly. — One handful of moss well 
washed, one quart of boiling water, the juice of two 
lemons, one glass of wine, one quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of cinnamon. Stir the moss (after soaking it an 
hour in a little cold water) into the boiling water, 
and simmer until it is dissolved ; sweeten, flavour, 
and strain into moulds. Good for colds, and very 
nourishing. 

Oatmeal Tea. — Pour a pint of boiling water on a 
table-spoonful of oatmeal, sweeten with honey, and 
flavour with the rind of a lemon, cut very thin. Stir 



240 RECIPES. 

it up, and let it stand till cool and clear. It can be 
warmed for drinking if required. 

Barley-Water. — Wash a table-spoonful of pearl- 
barley in cold water ; then pour off the water and add 
to the barley two or three lumps of sugar, the rind of 
one lemon, and the juice of half a lemon ; pour on 
the whole a quart of boiling water, and let it stand 
covered and warm for two or three hours ; then strain 
it. Instead of lemon, currant-jelly, orange-juice, or 
sliced liquorice may be used to flavour. Barley-water 
is a valuable demulcent in colds, affections of the 
chest, etc. 

Gum-Water. — One ounce of gum arabic, half an 
ounce of loaf sugar, to one pint of cold water ; should 
stand near the fire so as to be kept warm, and be oc- 
casionally stirred until the gum is all dissolved, and 
should then be allowed to cool, and will form an 
agreeable and nourishing drink in fevers. Lemon-peel 
or fruit syrup may be added to flavour. 

Linseed Tea. — i. This is often a useful drink for 
soothing irritation set up by the cough of Consump- 
tion, Bronchitis or Pneumonia, and for the irritation of 
Diarrhoea, Dysentery, and Inflammation of the bowels. 
It is prepared by adding one ounce of bruised linseed 
and half an ounce of sliced liquorice-root to two pints 
of boiling water, and macerating in a covered vessel 
near the fire for two or three hours ; it should then be 
strained through a piece of muslin, and one or two 
table-spoonfuls taken as often as necessary. Sliced 
lemon and sugar-candy will make it more palatable. 



MALT TEA— RICE WATER. 241 

2. Linseed one ounce, white sugar one ounce, 
liquorice root half an ounce, lemon-juice two table- 
spoonfuls. Pour on the ingredients two pints of 
boiling water, let them stand in a hot place for four 
hours, then strain. 

Malt Tea. — Boil three ounces of malt in a quart of 
water. In fever cases ivherc the mouth is very dry. 

Rice-Water. — The best Carolina or Patna rice 
should be washed with cold water, then boiled in a 
good measure of water for ten minutes, the water 
strained off, and more added ; and so on till the 
goodness is boiled out of the rice. The water is ready 
to drink when cold. Cream may be added if there be 
not high fever ; a pinch of salt also, if desired, or 
flavouring as for barley-water. 

Toast-Water. — i. This is not often well made. A 
slice of stale bread (crust is better) should be slowly 
baked through (not burnt), then put in a jug with a 
quart of boiling water poured over it, and allowed to 
stand covered till cool. It may be flavoured with 
lemon-peel. 

2. Toast slowly a tJiin piece of bread, until it is 
extremely brown and hard, but not black, put it in a 
jug of cold water, and cover it for an hour before 
using. 

White Wine Whev. — Put two pints of new milk 
in a saucepan, and stir it over a clear fire till it is 
nearly boiHng ; then add a quarter of a pint of sherry, 
and simmer for a quarter of an hour, skimming off the 
curd as it rises. Then add a table-spoonful more 



242 RECIPES. 

sherry, and skim again for a few minutes, till the whey 
is clear ; sweeten with loaf sugar if required. 

Tamarind Whey. — Stir two table-spoonfuls of 
tamarinds in a pint of milk whilst boiling ; when the 
curds are formed, strain off. It is a cooling and 
slightly laxative drink. 

Whey may also be made by heating milk till it 
almost boils ; then adding the juice of an orange or 
lemon, or a couple of juicy apples cut in slices, or a 
large table-spoonful of vinegar, or treacle, or honey ; 
or sufficient powdered alum or cream of tartar, or 
tartaric or citric acid, to cause curdling ; finally 
straining and sweetening to taste. 

Iceland Moss and Milk. — Soak an ounce of 
Iceland moss in half a pint of hot water for a quarter 
of an hour, strain, then boil the moss in a quart of 
water till it is reduced to a pint ; strain again, and_ 
boil the liquor (without the moss) down to a third of 
a pint. Mix this with half a pint of hot milk, sweeten 
and flavour to taste. 

Rice Milk. — If milk be plentiful the rice may be 
boiled in milk ; if not, boil it in water to plump and 
soften it, and when the water is wasted put in the 
milk, taking care that the rice in thickening does not 
stick to the saucepan. Season with sugar and a piece 
of cinnamon. A bit of lemon or orange peel will give 
a pleasant flavour. 

Sago Milk. — Soak the grains in water for an hour 
before boiling, or boil first in water for two or three 
minutes, which water pour off. Boil a large spoonful 



MILK AND MEAL. 243 

in a quart of new milk, sweeten and season to taste. 
Ground rice may be prepared in the same way and 
smaller quantities used. 

Milk and Meal. — Mix a large tea-spoonful of either 
baked flour or corn flour, or arrowroot, or other farina- 
ceous food, as may be indicated by special symptoms, 
in a little cold milk ; heat a pint of milk, and when it 
is about to boil, add to it the farinaceous preparation 
and keep stirring while all boils together for five 
minutes. Sweeten with sugar, and flavour with lemon 
or nutmeg, according to taste. This is very useful 
when beef-tea, eggs, and light puddings cannot be 
taken ; the milk is more nutritious than when taken by 
itself, and is less liable to turn sour. 

The quantity of flour, etc., may be raised. The 
ordinary proportion is a large dessert-spoonful to half 
a pint of milk. 

Lemonade. — Well rub two or three lumps of sugar 
on the rind of a lemon, squeeze out the juice, and add 
to it nearly a pint of cold or iced water; or better, one 
or two bottles of soda-water. 

2. A lemon should be cut into slices, and put into 
a jug with several pieces of loaf-sugar. A pint of 
boiling water added, covered, and allowed to cool. 
After straining, it is fit for use. This beverage is 
recommended to allay thirst, irritation of the throat, 
etc. It may be made to effervesce by the addition of 
a very little carbonate of soda. 

3. Three pounds of loaf sugar, i.V pints of 
water, 2 oz. of citric acid, 60 drops of essence of 



244 RECIPES. 

lemon-peel. Put the sugar into an enamelled sauce- 
pan, and pour the water on it ; just boil it. When half 
cold put in the citric acid and stir with a silver spoon, 
and add the essence of lemon-peel. A table-spoonful 
to a tumbler of water. When the lemonade is cold 
bottle it. 

Linseed Lemonade.— Four table-spoonfuls of whole 
linseed, one quart of boiling water, juice of two lemons. 
Pour the boiling water upon the linseed and steep 
three hours in a covered vessel j sweeten to taste ; if 
too thick add cold water with the lemon-juice. It is 
admirable for colds. 

Nitric Lemonade. — Twenty to thirty drops of 
dilute nitric acid sYiOwXdiht added to eight ounces of pure 
cold water, and flavoured with honey or loaf-sugar; from 
a tea-spoonful to a table-spoonful, according to age, 
may be given two or three times daily. Nitric lemonade . 
modifies sickness in Hooping-cough, and is useful in 
some cases of Bronchitis, Consumption, coughs from 
relaxed uvula, night-sweats, etc. 

Egg Nogg. — The yolks of two eggs and half an 
ounce of sugar should be thoroughly rubbed together ; 
then add four ounces of the best French brandy and 
four ounces of cinnamon water, and mix well. 

SowANS or Flummery. — To any quantity of oatmeal 
you like to infuse put double the v;eight of warm 
water ; stir well, and let the mixture infuse for four or 
five days in a warm temperature ; add more water, 
stir up, and strain. Let the liquid stand till the 
starch falls down in a white sediment, pour off the 



WHITE CAUDLE. 245 

water, and mixing as much of the starch or sediment 
as is wanted with water to thin it, boil, stirring briskly 
for a quarter of an hour till a jelly is formed. Sowans 
are eaten with milk, butter, or cream, and by conva- 
lescents with wine or milk as prescribed. 

Whi'i E Caudle. — Mix two large table-spoonfuls of 
finely ground oatmeal in water two hours previously to 
using it, strain it from the grits and boil it, sweeten 
and add wine and seasoning to taste ; nutmeg or 
lemon-juice answers best. 

Apple Water. — To juicy apples sliced, add a little 
sugar and lemon-peel ; pour over them boiling water ; 
strain when cold. 

Cream for Stewed Fruit. — Boil an ounce and 
a half of isinglass in a pint and a half of water over a 
slow fire till there is only half a pint. Strain and 
sweeten, add a glass of sherry, and stir in half a pint 
of good cream ; stir still cold. 

Fruit Cream. — Gooseberries, apples, rhubarb, or 
any fresh fruit may be used. To every pint of pulp 
add one pint of milk or cream ; sugar to taste. Pre- 
pare the fruit as for stewing, put it into a jar with two 
table-spoonfuls of water, and a little good moist 
sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, 
and let it boil until the fruit is soft enough to smash. 
Then beat it to a pulp, and work this pulp through a 
colander. To every pint stir in the above proportion 
of milk or cream \ if obtainable, the latter is of course 
preferable. 

Cocoa from Nius. — To produce cocoa from nibs, 



246 RECIPES. 

one of the most wholesome and nutritious of bever- 
ages, the following method is recommended. For two 
persons, take of Fry's No. i nibs a small teacupful, 
and soak them in one quart of water overnight ; next 
morning boil briskly for two hours, then strain off, 
and use directly with boiling milk. It should not be 
rewarmed, as it loses its flavour, just as tea does when 
warmed up again. The best way of boiling it is in a 
block-tin three-pints wine-muller, over a small gas 
stove ; or, better still, the new French milk saucepan, 
which consists of white ware fitted into an outside tin 
casing. The cocoa nibs, already soaked, as previously 
directed, should be put with a proper quantity of 
water into the white ware, the outside vessel being 
also filled with water, and boiled for two hours. 

Nutritious Coffee. — Dissolve a little isinglass in 
water, then put half an ounce of freshly ground coffee 
into a saucepan with a pint of new milk, which should' 
be nearly boiling before the coffee is added, boil both 
together for three minutes ; clear it by pouring some 
into a cup and dashing it back again, add the isinglass 
and leave it to settle for a few m.inutes. Beat up an 
egg and pour the coffee upon it ; or, if preferred, drink 
it without the egg. 

Nutrient Enema. — Take of beef-tea half a pint, 
and thicken it with a teaspoonful of tapioca. Reduce 
1 1 oz. of raw beef to a fine pulp, pass it through a 
fine colander, and mix the whole with twenty grains 
of acid pepsine (Boudault's poudre digestive), and 
four grains of diastase (or a dessert-spoonful of malt 



EGG AND SUGAR ENEMA. 247 

flour) ; where the latter is used the tapioca may be 
omitted. 

It should have a bright rose tint, and exhale a rich 
meaty odour, Xot more than a quarter of a pint should 
be used at a time, and that slowly. 

Pending the arrival of the pepsine and the malt, 
the other portions of the liquid may be administered 
alone. 

Egg and Sugar Enema. — Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs with two wineglassfuls of hot water in which 
an ounce of lump-sugar has been dissolved. 

Oil and Sugar Enema. — Gradually rub up half 
an ounce of gum arabic with two table-spoonfuls of 
water ; then gradually add and rub in two table- 
spoonfuls of olive oil or cod-liver oil ; then stir in a 
wine-glassful of hot water, in which an ounce of lump- 
sugar is dissolved. 

Panada. — Slice the crumb of a loaf very thin, and 
soak or boil it gently in water. When soft beat it up 
well and add sugar, and if allowed, wine ; a little 
butter may also be added. Panada may also be made 
of chicken broth instead of water and seasoned with a 
little mace, and is excellent for invalids. 

Warming-up. — The best way to warm up roast meat 
is to wrap it in buttered paper and roast it again. If 
the piece of meat be small, roll it in the paper and 
grill it. If you warm up meat cut in slices in sauce, 
never let it boil. 

Milk. — When the milk is about to be boiled, it is 
best to rinse the saucepan with a little cold water, and 



848 RECIPES. 

put the milk in while the saucepan is wet. The 
dampness prevents the milk burning. 

Scalding Vegetables. — A much more efficient 
method, which answers the purpose of scalding, is 
this. Put the vegetables in the water they are to be 
cooked in ; take a piece of the crumb of bread, tie it 
up in a fine piece of linen or muslin, and put it in too ; 
after they have boiled for a quarter of an hour, take 
the bread out, and it will have quite taken away any 
unpleasant flavour. — Epicure's Year Book^ 



DIET FOR SINGERS AXD SPEAKERS. 249 



CHAPTER VIII. 

THE DIET luR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 

By the Editor. 

As the interests of the gouty and the dyspeptic have 
been so well looked after in the preceding pages of 
this work, I thought that a few suggestions on the 
diet of those who make professional use of the 
voice might be acceptable, and I have therefore 
taken the following extracts from my work on " The 
Voice and its Management in Health and Disease.'' ■•' 

If the singer or speaker should feel faint and empty 
from his exertions — and we must recollect that to con- 
duct a long service or to play a leading dramatic part 
demands exertion — we would then advise the use of a 
little plain beef-tea ; it is better when taken cold, and 



* "The Voice and its Management in Health and Disease ; 
or, Clergyman's Sore-throat : its Local, Constitutional, and 
Kloculionary Treatment. 15y E. 15. Shuldham, M.D., M.A. 
Uxon. 

K 



2 so DIET FOR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 

in little sips, not in large draughts. Mr. Gladstone, 
in his oratory, always has a flask on the table before 
him, but we believe no one has attained to the secret of 
its composition. The late Charles Dickens, according 
to ]\Ir. Forster, used to partake, in the intervals of his 
reading, of a dozen oysters and a glass of champagne. 
The experience of Mr. Sims Reeves on this point is 
well worth taking note of. In a letter written to Mr. 
Lennox Browne on the subject of alcoholic stimulanta 
he says : " By long experence I find it much better to 
do without them entirely. A glycerine lozenge is pre* 
ferable ; on very rare occasions a small quantity of 
claret and water may be necessary j but all alcoholic 
stimulants are detrimental. I formerly, and for many 
years, used beef-tea, but it was too heavy. If one 
could limit oneself to a table-spoonful at a time, the 
latter might be the best ; but a large draught clogs the 
throat, and produces more saliva than is necessary,- 
and induces the desire to swallow too often." 

Since the appearance of the above sentence Mr. 
Gladstone honoured the writer with a communication 
on the subject. I quote from his letter the following. 
In referring to my work he says : — 

"No part of it surprised me more than your 
account of the various expedients resorted to by emi- 
nent singers. There, if anywhere, we might have 
anticipated something like a fixed tradition. But it 
seems we have learned nothing from experience ; and 
I can myself certify that even in this matter fashion 
prevails. Within my recollection an orange, or more 



DIET FOR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 251 

than one, was alone as a rule resorted to by members 
of Parliament requiring aid. Now it is never used. 
When I have had very lengthened statements to make 
I have used what is called egg-flip — a glass of sherry 
beaten up with an egg. I think it excellent ; but I 
have much more faith in the egg than in the 
alcohol." 

Now, suppers are bones of contention. I must 
be allowed to have my growl over them. Some 
medical men condemn this meal altogether ; others 
apologize for its appearance as something pleasant 
but wrong ; and a very few advocate its being taken. 
To this intelligent minority I have the honour to 
belong. First of all, the term supper has had a bad 
name, and consequently been branded with infamy. 
It has been associated with certain elegant but loose 
suppers of various periods of French history. " We 
are all princes or poets," said Voltaire, one night at a 
petit soi/per, in Paris. In some people's eyes, every- 
thing French is loose, though it may be elegant. 
Again, suppers have been in some minds associated 
with late hours, indigestible food, and excessive liba- 
tions of strong drink. These may be the accidents of 
this unfortunate meal, but they arc not the corollaries 
of the diet problem. 

Let us look the difiiculty boldly in the face, and 
ask those who condemn the meal, at what time they 
take their dinners, and what is their occupation after 
dinner? The whole difficulty rests on these ques- 
tions, and the solution follows their answer. 



252 DIET FOR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 

If a man dines late, say from six o'clock to seven, 
or later, he does not want a supper; if he goes to bed 
at about eleven, his dinner is a supper, and a very 
heavy supper some people make of it. But if he dines 
early, from half-past one to three, by nine o'clock he 
is a hungry man, or if he is not, he ought to be, and 
therefore he wants some supper to refresh him, and 
to give him a good night's rest, for there is no recipe 
so unfailing for causing a sleepless night as an empty 
stomach. 

Then for the occupation, if a man has preached in 
the evening, he is hungry after his sermon, and there- 
fore must be fed before bedtime. Or again, if he has 
to appear on the stage as either actor or singer, he 
has a great tax upon his nervous and muscular sys- 
tem, and unless he can dine at six or seven, so as to 
be ready for his dramatic exertions between seven, 
and eight, he will be famished before bedtime ; and 
let him remember, that to act or sing an hour after a 
full meal is about the worst thing for his digestion 
and his art he can well desire, and for this reason, we 
believe, few singers and actors dine late before their 
work, but sup late after their work. I therefore 
strongly advocate suppers for all who dine early, and 
who have to make much use of their voice; their 
nervous system requires it, and their digestion will 
not suffer for it, if they will only take moderate pre- 
cautions in their choice of food. If, however, they 
cat too heartily or injudiciously, they are pretty sure 
to encourage the dramatic interests of nightmare, and 



DIET FOR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 253 

in " the wee short hours ayont the twal," both player 
and preacher sigh for rest. 

We must not forget, that in long-continued use of 
the voice, as in speaking or singing, there is a large 
expenditure of vital force, and therefore your public 
speaker or singer requires to be properly fed. Let us 
take a hint from the birds ; their breathing machinery 
is very active ; their appetites are vigorous in propor- 
tion. ^\'e cannot watch a canary in its cage long 
without being led to one conclusion, namely, that the 
time which this interesting little bird does not devote 
to splitting our heads with its song, is taken up witli 
the cracking, scattering, and consumption of quanti- 
ties of grain, on the principle of " little and often." 
The curious phenomenon has, however, been noted 
of birds suffering from gout, chalk having been found 
in their limbs. Such birds have probably fed, "not 
wisely, but too well." 

The supper question naturally leads us to the whole 
question of diet. This can be simplified by saying, 
that when the general health is good, the digestion is 
good, and that therefore variety of food may be taken 
with impunity ; but when there is the slightest de- 
rangement of health, and especially when this resu'ts 
from cold, clergymen, barristers, singers, and speakers 
must all exercise the greatest caution in diet, for the 
voice will at once suffer by sympathy. Those liable 
to gout must avoid any sweet food, and any sweet 
wines. The bilious must forswear rich dishes, malt 
liquors, and spirits. Cold pork, cold pastry, or cold 



2S4 DIET FOR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 

veal sliould never be touched by those who value the 
beauty of their voice, or the comforts of a peaceful 
night's rest. Cheese may be taken at mid-day as a 
bonne bouchc, in a small fragmentary fashion, as 
•' nubbly bits," but never before serious voice work, or 
late at night. 

Fruits, in their season, and fresh vegetables, are 
good for the gouty and the bilious, but the fruits must 
neither be too acid nor yet over ripe, and radishes at 
tea-time will sometimes spoil the perfect finish of 
" Casta diva," and interfere with the powers of an 
appeal to the benevolent. 

There is one article of food which v/e condemn 
most strongly for those who make artistic use of their 
voice, and this is the filbert or nut. Why should we 
rob the squirrel of his staff of life, and misappropriate 
it for our dessert and our dyspepsia? A singer or 
speaker who ventures to eat nuts an hour before 
addressing his audience, would be certain to, and 
would deserve to, suffer vocal defeat. He might 
speak or sing with ability, nay, even with power, but 
the delicate tones of his voice would be lost, and his 
throat would be tired in half the usual time, showing 
how powerful is the influence of the pharynx in pro- 
ducing tone, for this chewed wood (nuts are nothing 
better than so much woody fibre) hangs about the 
throat, and irritates and dries it like so much saw- 
dust. Let anyone eat half a dozen filberts, nay, even 
three, and a few minutes after let him look down his 
throat, when he will see it spotted over with bits of 



DIET FOR SINGERS AND SPEAKERS. 255 

white and scraps of brown that have not gone cleanly 
dcwm to their destination, the stomach. Even when 
fairly lodged in the stomach, they cause pangs of 
indigestion, and so, by reflex action, irritate the throat 
and trouble tlie voice. 



INDEX, 






At-rated bread, 63. 

Alcohol, 23 — 2S. 

efifects of, 25—28. 

injurious to children, 

197. 

Almonds, 75. 
Almond laiscuits, 164. 
Aneurism, diet for, 176, 177. 
Animal food, 30 — 59. 
Antiscorbutics, 72. 
Apples, 85. 
Apricots, 86. 
Arrowroot, 235. 

jelly, 239. 

wine jelly, 239. 

Artichoke, Jerusalem, 79. 
Artificial ass's and goat's 
milk, 230. 

Broiled soles, 229. 
Lroilinp, 21 1. 
Brose, 66. 

Broth, calfs-foot, 224. 
chicken, 224. 

mutton, 223. 

veal, 223. 

vegetable, S4. 

Butter in milk, 50—54. 
Buttermilk, 52. 



Butter, 56—58. 

characteristics of pure, 

57, 58. 

keeping of fresh, 57. 

making, 56, 57. 



Biscuits, 64, 65. 
Biscuit powder, 65. 
Birds, 39, 40. 
Boiling, 211. 
Brazil nut, 74. 
Bread, 62—64. 

aerated, 63. 

brown, for constipation, 



jelly, 236, 237. 

made with sea water 



63. 



mouldy, 63. 

pudding, 231. 

crumb pudding, 231. 

stale, 63. 

toasting, 64. 

Bright's disease, diet for, iCC, 

167. 
Brill, 42, 43. 
Broccoli, 81. 
Bacon, 36. 
Baked soup, 226. 
Baking meat, 211. 



258 



INDEX. 



Baldness, diet for, 177, 178. 
Bannocks, 74. 
]5arberries, 87. 
Barley, 68. 

food for vickcts, 223, 

soup, 225. 

water, 68. 

Beans, 73. 

-=- broad, 73. 

French, 73. 

Beef, 34. 

• essence, 222. 

juice, 221. 

pulp, 222. 

tea, 218—220. 

Cabbages, 81. 

Cafe-au-lait, 107. 

Cafe-noir, 107. 

Calf's-foot l:)roth, 224. 

Cane sugar, 89. 

Capons, 40. 

Carbonate of lime in water, 

94—95- 

Carbonic acid in water, 94. 
Carolina rice, 70. 
Carrots, 80. 
Carrot pap, 236. 
Caudle, white, 245. 
Cauliflower, 81. 
Cayenne pepper, 91. 
Celery, 82. 
Cereals, 60 — 70. 
Cerealine, 62. 
Chalybeate water, 96. 
Chambers, Dr., on diabetes, 

162 — 164. 
on hysteria, 

185. _ 
Charteris, Dr., on diabetes, 

165. 
Cheese, 59. 

to be avoided by 

singers, 254. 



Cherries, 86. 

Chestnuts, 74. 
Chicken broth, 224. 

jelly, 238. 

Chiccory, 109. 
Choice of potatoes, 79. 
Cholera, diet for, 149 — 151. 
Cholera from impure water, 97. 
Clotted cream, 53. 
Cocoa, 109, no. 

■ as food, 109. 

in nursing, no. 

nibs. Fry's, 245, 246. 

Cod, 42, 43. 

Cod-liver oil, 135 — 139. 

Coffee, 106 — 109. 

choice of, 108. 

as decoction, 107. 

as infusion, 107. 

method of keeping, 

109. 

nutritious, 246. 

preparation of, 107, 

roasting, 108. 

a stimulant, 106. 

Condiments, 91. 
Consumption, diet in, 1 28 — 

139- 
Dr. Chambers 



108. 



on, 133, 134. 

milk in, 51. 

Consumptive children, diet 

for, 128 — 130. 
adults, 130 — 

139- 
Constipation, diet for, 151 — 

154- 
Cooking utensils to be kept 

clean, 215 — 217. 
Corn, Indian, 69, 70. 

flour, 69, 70- 

Corpulence, diet for, 179 — 

1S2. 



INDEX. 



259 



Copper in water, 95. 
Cow's milk, 50 — 54. 
Crab, 43, 44. 
Cracknels, 65. 
Cranberries, 87. 
Cream, 53. 

cheese, 59. 

for consumptives, 136. 

■ for stewed fruit, 245. 

fruit, 245. 

Cucumber, 83. 
Curds, 54. 
Currants, 86, 87. 

Diabetes, diet for, 157 — 165, 

Dr. Chambers on, 

162, 163. 

Dr. Charteris on, 



165. 

Dr. Donkin on, 

157 — 160. 

Dr. Pavy on, l6l — 



164. 
Dickens, Charles, as reader, 

250. 
Diet for aneurism, 176, 177. 

baldness, 177, 178. 

Bright's disease, 166, 

167. 
Diet for constipation, 151-154. 
consumption in adults, 

130— 139- 

consumption in chil- 
dren, 128 — 130. 

■ corpulence, 179 — 182. 

diabetes, 159 — 165. 

diarrhcca, 185 — 187. 

diphtheria, 178, 179. 

diseases of liver, 188 — 



190, 



dropsy, 187. 

dysentery, 148, 149. 

dyspepsia, 1 1 1 — 200. 

enteric fever, 148, 149. 



Diet for fevers, 169 — 175. 

gout, 141— 143. 

. gravel, 144—148. 

heart disease, 175, 

176. 

hysteria, 184, 185. 

infancy, 190 — 200. 

inflammation of bowels, 

148, 149. 

maternity, 204 — 206. 

old age, 200 — 202. 

rheumatism, 139— 141. 

rickets, 182 — 184. 

scrofula, 126 — 128. 

scurvy, 168, 169. 

singers and speakers, 



249—255- 

skin diseases, 187, 188, 

travellers, 202 — 204. 

worms, 154 — 156. 

Dietaries for children, 198 — 

200. 

— diabetes, 159— 



163. 



126. 



dyspepsia, 125, 
■worms, 155, 156. 



Digestion of bread, 123. 

fruit, 122, 123. 

meat, 121, 122. 

— vegetables, 122. 



Distilled water, 97. 

Eels, 42. 

stewed, 228. 

I^ggS 45—48. 

cream, and extract of 

beef, 226, 227. 

and minced fowl, 227. 

]igg enema, 247. 

flip for re.iders, 25 1. 

nogg, 244. 

pudding, 227. 

raw, and milk, 4O. 



26o 



INDEX. 



Kgg soup, 226. 

and wine, 227. 

Elderberries, 87. 
Eniden groats, 66. 
Enema, nutrient, 246. 

oil and sugar, 247. 

Enemata of food, 174. 
Extract of meat, 38, 39. 

Farinaceous food, 60 — 71. 

Neave's, etc., 

130, 185, 193, 195.198, 199- 
Fat, digestion of, 22. 
Fatty food, 22. 

for baldness, 177. 

Fibrine, artificial, 47. 
Figs, 87. 
Fish, 40—45. 

broth, 43. 

eaters, 40, 41. 

fresh, sign of, 42. 

white, 42, 43. 

Flatulent dyspepsia, diet for, 

125, 126. 
Flesh, comparative values of, 

31, 32. 
Flounder, 42. 
Flummery, 244. 
Food, animal, 30 — 59. 
Food, vegetable, 60—91. 
Fowl, minced, and egg, 227. 
Franklin's rule, 152. 
French beans, 73. 
Fresh eggs, 47, 48. 
Fresh oysters in dyspepsia, 

44, 45- 
Fried soles, 229. 

Card's extractor, 221. 
Geese, 40. 
Gelatine, 36, 37. 
Gingerbread, 65. 
Gladstone, Mr., on public 
speaking, 250, 251. 



Golden syrup, 90. 

Gooseberries, 87. 

Gout, diet for, 141 — 143. 

Grapes, 89. 

Grape sugar, 89. 

Graves, l3r., on rickets, 170. 

Gravy soup, 225, 

Gravel, diet for, 144 — 148. 

Green artichoke, 82. 

Green tea, loi. 

Groats or grits, 66. 

• — Emden, 66. 

Ground rice pudding, 233. 
Gruel, 234. 
Giouse, 40. 

Guatemala coffee, loS. 
Guerin on rickets, 194. 
Guinea fowl, 39. 
Gum Arabic, 88. 
water, 240. 

Haddock, 42, 43. 

Hare, flesh of, 45. 

Hard water, 94, 95. 

Haricot beans, 73. 

Heart disease, diet for, 175, 

176. 
Herring, 41. 

Loch Fyne, 4 1. 

Honey, 90. 
Hysteria, 184, 185. 

Ice, 99, 100. 

a therapeutic agent, 99, 

100. 

in fevers, 1 72. 

Iceland moss jelly, 239. 

and milk, 242. 

Indian corn, 69. 
Infusion of malt, 69. 
Invalid's jelly, 238. 
Iodine in cod-liver oil, 135, 

136. 
Iron in water, 95. 



INDEX. 



261 



Isinglass, 43. 

Jelly, arrowroot, 239. 

arrowroot wine, 239. 

bread, 236, 237. 

chicken, 238. 

Iceland moss, 239. 

invalid's, 238. 

nutritive, 237. 

orange or wine, 237 , 238. 

pearl barley, 237. 

tapioca, 238. 

water, 239. 

Jerusalem artichokes, 79. 

Koumiss, 55) 56- 

plan of making, 55, 

56. 

Lactine in milk, 50. 

Lamb, 35. 

Lard, 59. 

Laver, 82. 

Lead in water, 95 — 97. 

Leared, Dr., on beef-tea, 219. 

Leeks, 83. 

T-emons, 85, 86. 

Lemon-juice in tea, 105. 

Lemon-juice for scurvy, 168, 

169. 
Lemonade, 243, 244. 

linseed, 244. 

nitric, 244. 

Lentil soup, 226. 
Leguminous seeds, 73. 
Letheby, Dr., 217, 218. 
Lettuce, 83. 
Liebig's extract of meat, 217, 

218. 
Lime-juice, 169. 
J-inseed-tea, 240, 241. 
Lifiuid foo(l, avoid excess of, 

120. 



Liver, 37, 
Lobster, 43, 44. 
Lucca oil, 88. 

Macaroni, 232. 

pudding, 232. 

Mackerel, 42. 
Maize, 69. 
Maizena, 69, 70. 
Malt food for rickets, 1S3, 
184. 

infusion of, 69. 

tea, 241. 

Manna, 90. 

Marrow, vegetable, S3. 
Maternity, diet in, 204 — 206. 
Meals, too frequent, 115. 

exertion after, 1 16. 

late in the day, 116, 

117. 

Meat, characteristics of good, 

32, 33- 

extract of, 38, 39. 

in tins, 215. 

preserved, 38. 

salted, 33. 

Medlars, 85. 
Melons, 87. 

Methods of preparing food, 

209—248, 
Milk, 46—48. 
' artificial, ass's and goat's, 

230. 

boiling, best way of, 247. 

condensed, 55. 

constituents of, 50. 

cow's, 50 — 52. 

diet for Uright's disease, 

167. 

goat's, 50. 

and Iceland moss, 242. 

and lime-water, 230. 

and meal, 243. 

and rice, 242. 



262 



INDEX. 



Milk, rum, and isinglass, 230. 

sago, 242. 

and suet, 229. 

woman's, 50. 

young cow's, 51- 

Minced fo'wl and egg, 227, 

228. 
Mocha coffee, 108. 
Molasses, 90. 
Molken-kur, 55. 
Muffins, 65. 
^lulberries, 87. 
Muscatel raisins, 86. 
Mushrooms, 83, 84. 
Mussels, 45. 
Mutton, 35. 

Neave's farinaceous food, 66, 
71, 130, 185, 193, 195, 19S, 
199. 

Nectarines, 86. 
Nitric lemonade, 244. 
Nitrogenous food, 20, 21. 
Non-nitrogenous food, 22, 23. 
Norwegian nest, 211. 
Nutrient enema, 246, 247. 
Nutritive jelly, 237. 
Nuts to be avoided by singers, 
254- 

Oatmeal tea, 239. 

Oil and sugar enema, 247. 

Old age, diet in, 30i, 202. 

Olive oil, 88. 

Olives, Spanish, 87, 88. 

Onions, 82 — 85. 

Orange or wine jelly, 237, 238, 

Oranges, 85. 

Oswego, 69. 

Oysters, 44, 45. 

stewed, 229. 

in dyspepsia, 44, 45. 

Panada, 22S, 247. 



Pancreatic emulsion, 135. 

Parke's, Dr., biscuits, 140. 

Parsnips, 80. 

Partridges, 40. 

Patent barley, 68. 

Pavy, Dr., on diabetes, 16 1^ 

163. 
Peaches, 86. 
Pears, 85. 
Pearl barley, 68. 

jelly, 237. 

Peas, 73, 74. 

bannocks, 74. 

Pheasant, 40. 

Phosphorus in cod-liveroil, 135. 

Pigeons, 40. 

Pilchards, 42. 

Pineapples, 87; 

Plums, 86. 

Pork, 36. 

Porridge, 234. 

Potatoes, 77 — 79. 

choice of, 79. 

preparation of, 78. 

soup, 79. 

surprise, 228. 

Prawns, 44. 

Preparation of food, 209. 
Pudding, 233. 

"" — bread, 231. 

bread crumb, 23 1 - 

ground rice, 233, 

m.acaroni, 232. 

Pulse, 73. 

Pumpkins, 83. 

Pure water best beverage, 92. 

Rabbits, flesh of, 45. 
Radishes, 80. 
Rain water, 95, 96. 
Raisins, 86. 
Raspberries, 87. 
Raw beef juice, 132. 
Regulation of food, i — 16. 



INDEX. 


263 


Relation of food to nutriment, 


Sir J. Simpson on consump- 


i6 — 29. 


tion, 134. 




Revalenta, 74. 


Skim milk in diabetes, 157 — 


Rheumatism, diet for, 139 — 


159- 




142. 


Sleeplessnessj 201. 




Rhubarb, 81, 82. 


Smelt, 42. 




Reeves's, Sims, experience, 


Smoking meat, 215. 




250. 


Snipe, 40. 




Rice, 232, 


Soft water, 94, 95. 




— — boiled, 232. 


Soles, 43. 




cream, 233. 

milk, 242. 






fried, 229. 




pudding, 233. 


Soup, baked, 226. 




water, 241. 


barley, 225. 




Rickets, diet for, 182— 184. 


egg, 226. 




River water, 97. 


gravy, 225. 




for tea-making. 


lentil, 226. 




104. 


Sardinian, 225. 




Roasting, 208, 209. 


turtle, 44. 




Rusks, 64. 


vealj 225. 




Rye bread, 69. 


Sowans, 244. 
Soyer's recipe, 235. 




Sago, 235. 


Spanish chestnuts, 74. 




Salads, 83. 


Sphere of cod-liver oil. 


137. 


Salmon, 42. 


Spinach, 81. _, 




Salting meat, 214. 


Spirits, 119. 




Salts in water, 94 — 96. 


Sponge cakes, 65. 




Sardinian soup, 225. 


Sprats, 42. 




Savoys, 81. 


Spring water, 96. 




Scarlet mnners, 73. 


Sprouts, 81. 




Scotch barley, 68. 


Starch, 22, 23, 75, 76. 




»»A»«An1 AA 


Starchy plants, 72. 




OaiiTlCMl) OU. 




Scrofula, diet for, 126—128. 


Stewed eels, 228. 




Scurvy, diet for, 168, 169. 


Stewing, 211. 




Sea-kale, 82. 


Stewed oysters, 229. 




Sea-sickness, 204. 


Stimulants, alcoholic, 


118— 


Seaweeds as food, 88, 89. 


120. 




Semolina, 66. 




"5- 




Sheep's brains, 38. 


Stomach, cooling the. 


114, 


trotters, 38. 


"5- 




Shell-fish, 44. 


overloading 


the. 


Shrimj^s, 42. 


112— 114. 




Sir C. Clarke on infant feed- 




the, 




ing, 196. 


115. 





264 



INDEX. 



Strawberries, 87. 

Suet and barley-water, 230. 

milk, 229. 

Sugar, 23, 89, 90. 

avoid in corpulence, 

179—182. 

digestion of, 23. 

in tea, use of, 105. 

of milk as food, 129. 

Suppers, late, avoid, 1 16, 117. 
Sweetbread, 37, 38. 

Syrup, golden, 90. 

Tamarinds, 87. 

whey, 242. 

in tea, 104. 

Tapioca, 76. 

and cod liver, 235. 

jelly, 76. 

Tea, benefits of, loi, 102. 

dinners, 103. 

hurtfulness of, 1 02. 

preparation of, 103 — 105. 

sedative principle of, 105. 

with lemon-juice, 105. 

Teeth, attention to, 201, 202. 
Temperature of food in sick- 
ness, 173, 174. 
Theine, loi. 

Theobromine, Randall's, 109. 
Toast, 64. 

water, 241. 

Tongue of ox, 38. 
Tops and bottoms, 64. 
Tous-les-mois, 77. 
Travellers, diet for, 202—204. 
Treacle, 90. 

Tripe, 37. 
Turbot, 42. 
Turkey, 39. 
Turnips, 80. 



Turtle soup, 44. 

Valsalva's treatment of aneur- 
ism, 176, 177. 
Veal, 35. 

bruth, 223. 

soup, 225. 

Vegetable food, 60 — 91. 

marrow, 83. 

slow digestion of, 

122. 
Vermicelli, 65. 
Vinegar as a digestive, 9I. 
Venison, 36. 

Warming up, 247. 
Water, analysis of, 93, 94. 
carbonate of lime in, 

95- 

distilled, 97. 

hard, 94, 95. 

impurities of, 97, 98. 

in tanks, 98. 

rain, 95, 96. 

river, 97. 

soft, 94, 95. 

spring, 96. 

test for impure, 98, 

Watercress, 83. 
Well water, 96, 97. 
Whey, 242. 
Whey, tamarind, 242. 

white wine, 241. 

Whitebait, 43. 
White caudle, 245. 
White fish, 42, 43. 
Whiting, 42, 43. 
Wild fowl, 40. 
Wine and egg, 227. 
Wine jelly, 237. 



MODERN WORKS 

ON THE 

PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE 

HOMCEOPATHY. 

For the use of the Professional Student, the Clergy- 
man, the Missionary, the Colonist, Heads of 
Families, etc. 

A Text-Book of Modern Medicine and Surgery, 

ON HOMCEOPATHIC PRINCIPLES. 

By E. If. RUDDOCK, M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.M. 
(Land, and Edin.), etc. 

Demy 8vo, pp. 1032, 21s. ; half morocco, 25s. 



Extracts from Reviews. 

" This splendid volume of 1032 octavo pages is, altogether, the most complete 
text-book for the use of the layman, student, and physician which has ever been 
published for our School. Next to Baehr, it is the best work on Practice, but its 
value is not confined to this department alone. . . .If we had had such a 
work fifteen years ago. Homoeopathy would have profited immensely by it. To 
nine-tenths of old physicians of large and long practice it will prove an excellent 
guide and assistance in the treatment of disease." — From the American 
Observer, by Dr. E. M. Hale. 

" Valuable for laymen and young practitioner*, written in a plain, pleas-int, 
off-hand style. . . . Our author gives concisely in a few pages the essence 
of large volumes. We feel more pleased with the book the more we read it, and 
we can recommend it in good faith lo all our readers, of high or low degree, 
strict Hahnemannians or otherwise." — North American Journal 0/ Homaet- 
fiathy. 

Homoeopathic Publishing Compary, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.C. 



266 The Homocopatliic Text Book. 

" Full to <»verflowing of valuable material, gathered from all sources — from 
the journals and standard works of the day, both homoeopathic and allopathic, 
and from the personal experience of the many correspondents of the author. 
As an exponent of the best and most reliable treatment of the various forms of 
disease, in brief form and up to date, it is not surpassed. . . . Although this 
volume is got up very much in the style of the author's ' Vade Mecum,' it is by 
no means a reprint of that work. Very much new material has been added in all 
tlie departments, and the whole character of the work has been changed, while 
Its value has been at the same time greatly increased. For junior practitioners 
(and seniors as well) it will certainly prove of considerable service. It is 
handsomely printed with clear type on good paper, and presents a very 
attractive appearance. We recently had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Ruddock, 
and were as much pleased with the man as with the book."— Hahnemanniafi 
Monthly. 

" Dr. Ruddock, author of several well-known works on Homoeopathy, has 
just pubHshed this handsome volume of 1032 pages, which we recommend to all 
our confreres to whom the English language is familiar. Dr. Ruddock being 
intimately acquainted with the progress of Homoeopathy, has introduced in his 
book most of the recent acquisitions of the science, particularly concerning the 
new American re -nedies. . . . Written in a very clear and simple style (its 
object being to spread Homoeopathy), will be of great use to practitioners, but 
especially will it be valuable to those who are commencing the study c^ Homoeo- 
pathy and are wishing to practise it." — Revue Homoeopathiqite Beige. 

"We believe that there is nothing equal to it in England or. America for its 
precise descriptions of diseases and their symptoms, for full and specified indica- 
tions of remedies, copious and valuable professional experience gathered in a 
Clinical Directory, and for complete index to the contents of the volume." — 
Colombo Obsen<er. 

"Dr. Ruddock has again placed the profession under obligations to Wm for 
another valuable work on Homoeopathic practice. . . . The most liberal as 
well as the most exclusive Homoeopath will find within its covers food for his 
mind of the most solid character. The first pages of the book are devoted to 
the sadly ignored field of Dietetics, and the proper method of cooking and 
selecting food for invalids and healthy persons as well. These chapters are 
exceedingly valuable, and may be read with advantage by many physicians, old 
as well as young. . . . Then follows an admirable series of short chapters on 
Hygiene. The doctor evidently believes in the old saw of an ounce of preven- 
tion being worth a pound of cure. . . . The Clinical Directory is one of 
the most valuable yet published. . . . F'or a comprehensive work, one for 
ready reference for the busy physician and the student, we can heartily and 
conscientiously recommend Dr. Ruddock's." — Ltiytie's St. Louis Monthly 
Homoeopathic Circular. 

" What makes the volume specially valuable is that authorities are given for 
most of the dicta, and the reader will notice that Dr. Ruddock is by no means 
confined to his own school, but treats medicine as a whole, and avails himself 
of the labours of Dr. Brown Sequard, Dr. Carpenter, the distinguished writers 



Homceopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.G. 



The Homoiopathic Text Book. 2&'j 

in Reynold's System of Medicine, C. I. B. Williams, Hunter, Professor Stokes, 
and other leaders of the rival school. A long list of homoeopathic practitioners 
ia England and America have placed their note-books at his disposal." — 
jyfelboume Daily TtUgraph. 

" For a comprehensive work, one for ready reference for the busy physician 
and the student, we can heartily and conscientiously recommend Drj Ruddock's." 
— St. Louis Homao/vtihic Circular. 

"This is the latest and best of the works given .to the profession hy Dr. 
Ruddock. And when we say the best, it is no common compliment, for Dr. 
Ruddock has written some of our most practical books. The need of the 
profession for years past has been for ' more matter and less mind.' Dr. Rjuddock, 
in this work, satisfies this craving of our professional nature more. fully than any 
other late author. He does not dish out to us, for mental pabulum, a rehash of 
somebody else's hash of historical guesswork, but we are regaled with fresh 
viands tested by reliable and trustworthy artists, and the old wine which has 
proven good is not thrown away. We set ourselves down, then, to a feast of 
good things when we peruse its 1032 pages. 

"The First Pan it devoted to Hygienic Observation.s, of which he gives us 
76 pages. Then follows a chapter on 'Signs and Symptoms of Disease.' 
Chapter III. is given to 'The Medicines,' their forms, names, attenuations, ic. 

" Part II. completes Accessories in the Trea'ment of Diseases, which includes 
the diet and nursing of the sick— a very important part of their treatment. 

"We now come to Part III. of our 'bill of fare.' This part contains 13 
chapters and about 650 pages, giving the gist of the pathology, diagnosis, and 
treatment of nearly every disease which the human family is liable to. 

" The division of 'The General Diseases' follows the plan of the nomenclature 
adopted by the Royal College of Physicians, London, which ^treats of them under 
two sections — viz., ' Blood Diseases' and ' Constitutional Disea.ses.' 

"To our m'.od, the most valuable of this portion of the work is the clear 
symptomatic indications and the differential diagnoses of disease which are the 
most satisfactory we know. The differences between Measles and Scarlet 
Fever, Typhoid and Typhus, Diphtheria and Croup, are excellent, being concise 
and clear in statement. Such differential diagnoses are given all through 
the book. 

" Part IV. This part of the book, as a pathological Materia Medica, is 
valuable and complete. 120 pages of interesting and valuable reading. 

"Part V. This is most valuable, and, looking at it from the standpoint of a 
teacher of young men, we are impressed with our own shortcomings, in that 
young men, candidates for medical honours, have, comparatively, so little know- 
ledge of the action and treatment of ' Poisons.' 

" Part VI. concludes the book with the Clinical Dirrctorv, a short review 
of which was published in an earlier number of this journal. We feel no 
hesitancy in recommending this— Dr. Ruddock's last work — as eminently 
practical, useful to the general practitioner, and worthy of a front place on every 
physician's table." — American "Journal 0/ II omaopathic Materia Medica. 

Hom(sopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, B.C. 



26'8 The Homoeopathic Text Book, &'c. 

" All articles are characterised by extreme lucidity, and hints and instructions 
are marked by thought, fulness, and common sense." — C^ifmist and Druggist. 

" It does not require recommendation, being the exponent of its own merits." 
— Church and Home. 

" Dr. Ruddock's writings have always been favourably received, and this 
book — perhaps the most important of all of them— cannot fail to meet with the 
same Mtention. " — Public Opinion. 

'^ A% a volume of general utility, containing a large and varied amount of 
information concerning the nature of a considerable proportion of diseases, and 
the remedial measures requisite for their cure and palliation, it possesses strong 
claims to our commendation.'' — Monthly Homoeopathic Reviem. 

" The student will find it a work of great value in the preparation of his cases, 
and the busy physician a work of ready reference in his arduous labours." — 
Medical Union. 

" Very clearly and pleasantly written, and on matters of hygienic rule and 
habits contains a vast amount of common-sense advice, which even the non- 
medical reader miy find it to his advantage to consuXx.." — Graphic . 



Revised Edition. Price ^s. ; or Interleaved, Is. 6d. , post free. 

The Clinical Directory; 

WITH CHAPTER ON POISONS, 

APPENDIX OF FORMULvf;, TABLE OF DILUTIONS 

OF THE REMEDIES PRESCRIED, Etc. 

Being Parts V. and VI. of the 

"TEXT BOOK OF MODERN MEDICINE AND SURGERY." 

Very convenient as a pocket repertory. 

" The various works of Dr. Ruddock are marked for their practical character, 
and for the care exercised in their preparation ; and this brochure is one of the 
most practically valuable, and most carefully prepared of the number. During 
the few weeks it has lain on our desk, it has served a good purpose on several 
occasions, and promptly led to the selection of a curative remedy. Dr. Ruddock 
does not claim completion or perfection for his work ; and, in fai-t, invites the 
co-operation of the whole profession to improve future editions, so that it may 
be eventually perfected. A Chapter on Poisons : their eflfects and treatment, is 
an important part of the book." — The Hahnemannian Monthly. 

" This little repertory has given me more satisfaction in the short time that it 
has been in my possession than any of the more ponderous and pretentious ones 
heretofore given to the profession. It is brief, simjile, and based not so much 
on pathogenetic symptoms as on clinical experience. Dr. Ruddock is known 
as a very candid and reliable author." — The American Homoeopathic Ohseri'er. 
By Dr. E. M. Hale. 

Homceopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.G. 



The. Veterinary Vade Mecmn. 269 

NOW READY. Crown Svo, handsomely bound in half calf, 
pp. 840, price 1 5J-. 

The Veterinary Vade Mecum.. 

A Manual on the Horse, Cow, Dog, and Sheep ; their Diseases, 

Homoeopathic Treatment, and General Management. 

Edited by K. P. G. LORD, M.R.C.V.S.L. ; also by J. RUSH 

and W. RUSH, Veterinary Surgeons. 

REVIEWS. 

"There are so many valuable publications on this subject that it seems 
invidious to draw attention to one particular work, but we can safely say that the 
work under review is one that every breeder and others having cattle will find of 
great service. Homoeopathy has worked a radical change in the system of 
treatment of the human body, and in a like manner has a different method of 
treatment for the animal— a system, we venture to say, more in accord with our 
humanitarian ideas than the former one. Looking at the subject in an 
economical point of view, we find Homoeopathy claims advantages worth 
recording. Thus the author, Mr. W. C. Lord, veterinary surgeon of the 
cavalry depot, Canterbury, when slating his reasons for preferring homosopathy 
to the old system, says that the remedies act quicker, safer, and better in many 
ways, particularly in not reducing the strength of an animal after drugging, as is 
frequently the case under the old system. In reference to colic or gripes, he 
says : — ' The a-'ernge lime it takes to cure colic honioeopathically (as taken from 
sixty-four consecutive cases m my official record of treatment) is 77 min., but 
some cases I have cured ia from 10 min. to 14 min. with ten drops of the appro- 
priate remedy. The longest of my cases under treatmeut was 6J hours, the 
shortest 5 min.'" — Melbourne Weekly Times. 

" Lucidly arranged and well treated, sufficient for the guidance of non- 
medical readers, and not overloaded with technical information ; we cordially 
recommend the book." — British "Journal 0/ Homwopathy. 

"Those who desire to treat the diseases of the horse, cow, dog, and sheep on 
homoeopathic principles cannot have a better manual for their purposes than 
' The Veterinary Vade Mccum,' and even those who are inclined to abide by 
the older fashioned and more generally practised ' heroic ' treatment of di.seases 
will find much valuable information in the work. The editors are veterinary 
surgeons of large experience in the army as well as in country practice, and 
evidently know their business thoroughly." — Tlu; Irish Farmers' Gazette. 

" The section devoted to the consideration of horse ailments appears to have 
been done with much care. . . . Taken as a whole, this book will be found 
useful alike in the suble, the kennel, and the cow-shed."— Noma^o/athic Rroievj 

"The authors know their business thoroughly. They treat the various 
diseases concisely, but completely. We know of no t)Ook where we could turn 
so readily for an exact statement of the .symptoms in the several animals which 
indicate the complaint ; and as far as hygienic treatment is concerned we 
admit also the usefulness of this volume." — Chemist and Druggist. 

Homoeofjathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.G. 



270 The Diseases of Infants and Children. 

Third Editicn. Fifteenth Thousand. Crown 8^'^, //. 240, 35. 6d. 

The Diseases of Infants and 
Children, 

AND THEIR HOMCEOPATHIG AND GENERAL 

TREATMENT. 

By E. H. RUDDOCK, M.D., L.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., L.M. 

(London and Edinburgh), etc. 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

"This is another of Dr. Ruddock's popular works for domestic use. Its 
pages are full of familiar notes on disease, and of simple remedies and expedients 
therefor. It is written in a popular and pleasing style, and its arrangement is 
creditable and convenient. An improvement over other works of its kind will 
be found in its excellent remarks on the differential diagnosis between diseases 
which are so nearly alike as not only to puzzle the lay practitioner, but often- 
times the doctor also." — Tlie United States Medical and Surgical Journal. 

"Those who believe in Homccopathy, and put their faith to the test of 

practice, will be glad to know of Dr. Ruddock's new work The 

author does Jiot, however, confine himself to diseases, but gives some admirable 
hints on the general management of children, his hygienic and medical pre- 
scriptions being intended for preventive as well as for curative treatment." — 
Public Opinion. 

" We can promise not only much information on the curative method of 
Homoeopathy, but a great accession of practical knowledge in the observations 
relative to the diet and general treatment of the young, which is really available 
for the use alike by the allopathist, the hydropathist, and the hom.oeopathist." — 
TAe Ladies' Own Journal and Miscellany. 

"The Doctor traverses the entire domain of therapeutics, and, considering" the 
popularity of the style, the e.xcellence of the definitions, the general precision 
of the phraseology despite the absence of technicalities, it appears to us as good 
a treatise from its own standpoint as could be reasonably expected." — 7'/<if 
Edinburgh Daily Review. 

" This book is another of the series of practical domestic treatises which ha-v'e 
done so much to spread a knowledge and increase the popularity of Homoeopathy 
in England, and have made Dr. Ruddock famous. It is written in plain 
language so that all may understand its teachings, it preserves a sound 
pathology and diagnosis throughout, and its treatment, which embraces the 
' new remedies ' as well as the old, is in accord with the experience of most 
practitioners, and is thoroughly safe.'" — Tlte H ahnemanfiian Monthly. 

"The author offers us here a very valuable contribution to the pathology and 
therapy of the diseases of children. According to his own modest opinion th« 
book is onlj' intended to be the adviser of mothers, but after a careful perusal of 
the work we are convinced that it contains also for physician.s much interesting 
matter, and also not a little that is new." — Allegmeine Homoopaihische 
Zeitu7ig. 

HomcBjpathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury -Circus, E.C. 



The Lady's Manual. 271 

Just Published. Srjenth Edition, 36th Thousand, thoroughly 
revised and enlarged, with new Sections, toned paper, hand- 
somely bound in patent morocco, bezelled boards, burnished 
edges, price js. Cheap edition, in cloth, js. 6d. 

The Lady's Manual 

OF HOMCEOPATHIC TREATMENT 

IN THK 

VARIOUS DERANGEMENTS INCIDENT TO HER SEX. 

By E. H. RUDDOCK, M.D., &c. 



" The name cf Dr. Ruddock figured largely for many years :n connection with 
medical literature ; and although he has now passed away from the scene of his 
labours, his works are evidently exerting an influence upon those who sympathise 
with homoeopathic principles and have faith in the efficacy of homoeopathic 
treatment. The ' Lady's Manual' will be seen to have been pretty firmly 
stamped with the impress of pilLlic approbation when -we say that it is now in its 
seventh editionand thirty-sixth thousand. Dr. Lade, the editor of this last, jnd, 
we believe, best edition, professes to have thoroughly revised and considerably 
enlarged it. It traverses the whole range of female diseases, expressing their 
characteristics with remarkable perspicuity, and indicating the remedies in use 
among the most eminent practitioners in the therapeutic school. So far as 
we can perceive, the whole domain of pharmacy and hygiene have been 
laid under contribution, and valuable information has been extracted from 
allopathic and hydropathic as well as the ordinary Hahnemannic sources. This 
is as it should be, and shows that the gentleman to whom the revisal has been 
entrusted has both discrimination anU experience. He has done his work well, 
and we have no hesitation in saying that readers of every shade of therapeutical 
belief will find in it something worth remembering and using when occasion 
presents itself."— AVr/A BrilUh Advertiser and Lady's Jourtinl, yuiy #./:, 
1878. 

"The work of Dr. Ruddock is precisely what every woman needs, and con- 
tains information for the want of which she often suflfcrs permanent loss of 
health. The whole range of functions and diseases incident to women is treated 
with care and precision." — Nrw England Medical Gazette. 



Fifth Edition, Rei'ised and Enlarged, \s. 6d. 

The Common Diseases of Women, 

An Abridgment of the " Lady's Manual." 
HomcBopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.G. 



272 Diseases of the Ear. 



JViTc Publication. Demy 'ivo, pp. 176. Gilt lettered back atid side. 
Price 5,f. 

A Series of Clinical Lectures 

INFLAMMATION & OTHER. DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 

Containing an Appendix, with Cases treated by the Author. 

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS. 
Embracing in a readable fomi. the principal important facts in the 
Pathology and Treatment of the various forms of AGUTE and 
CHRONIC AURAL INFLAMMATION, and its Complications, 
being a Course of Lectures delivered during the Winter Session of 
1877-78, to the Class attending the Homoeopathic School of 
Medicine in Great Ormond Street. 

ByROBT. T. COOPER, A.B., M.D., Univ. of Dublin, 
Physician, Diseases of tiie Ear, London Homoeopathic Hospital. 



EXTRACT FROM REVIEW. 

" We have much pleasure in noticing this work. A treatise on the homoeo- 
pathic treatment of diseases of the ear was certainly a desideratum, as no such 
work had hitherto been published, and, in fact, the ear had been very much 
neglected from a homoeopathic point of view. Dr. Cooper has succeeded in 
giving us a really excellent treatise on the subject, which embraces the most 
important of all the car diseases— viz., inflammation of the middle ear, with its 
concomitants and consequences. 

" Dr. Cooper makes his work thoroughly practical, and we are sure that all 
those to whom homoeopathic treatment of ear diseases is a nsw study, will 
benefit much by its perusal. Our author describes clearly and most interestingly 
the anatomy and physiology of the parts of the organs of hearing which are the 
ones chiefly involved in inflammations, a knowledge of which is essential to a 
thorough understanding of these diseases and their treatment. He does not 
confine himself to mere drug treatment, but recognises the necessity for occa- 
sional surgical interference. All this part of the work is well done, though not 
pretending to originality ; but, when we come to the drug treatment. Dr. Cooper 
displays his usual acumen in observation of the effects of drugs, and in deducing 
their therapeutical import and sphere. We find several points brought out which are 
to be found in no other work. . . . Were it for nothing but his hints on the 
value of Glycerine and Hydrasies in deafness and otorrhoea, we should feel 
repaid by the perusal of this boi'k. 

" Dr. Cooper is not behindhand in mechanical invention. He has devised an 
ingenious form of ear-syringe, with the view of getting the water at once behind 
the plug of wa.x, instead of the ordinary mode of injecting the- water directly 
against the accumulation. 

"Altogether, we congratulate Dr. Cooper on his work, and can highly reco r- 
mend it to the study of all interested in this subject. 

"We wish Dr. Cooper all success in his speciality, and hope to have at a 
future time the further results of his experience." — Monthly Homeeopathic 
Review, March, 1879. 

Homceopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.G. 



Coughs and their Cure. 273 

JUST PUBLISHED.— Crmvn %vo. Pp. 260. Gilt Uttered back 
and side', prue 4^. 6d. 

Coughs and their Cure: 

WITH SPECIAL CHAPTERS ON 

CONSUMPTION AND CHANGE OF CLIMATE. 

By E. E. SHULDHAM, M.D. TrLn. Coll., Dublin, 
M.R.C.S., M.A. Oxon. 



OPIXIONS OF THE PRESS. 

" Last, far from least, 'Coughs and their Cure' (Graphic), by Dr. Shuld- 
ham, a lively, wpll-written, little volume on slightly homoeopathic lines, and like 
most homoeopathic books, quite intelligible to the general reader, may decidedly 
be commended to the weak of lungs, were it only for the good chapter on the 
■ Movement Cure,' and the capital survey of useful health-resorts^' If you 
change nothing else,' said a ereat doctor, ' change your room ' — from quiet 
Penzance to the most recent discovery, Davos-am-Platz." 

" Dr. Shuldham has in this work taken up another form of the common 
ailments of humanity, and, paradoxical as it may appear, has made their treat- 
ment and their cure quite an interesting subject of study and thought to even 
the non-professional reader; and (may we say?) to the non-medical sufferer. 

VVe need scarcely say that Dr. Shuldham Goes liis work in a 

scholarly fashion, and his lively and piquant pages will be found to contain 
something besides dissertations on ' The Beautiful Law of Similars,' as a graceful 
translation of Goethe's charming ballad of Mignon, which will be found at 
page 235, will show, even if there was nothing else." — Surrey Advertiser. 

" Dr. Shuldham's work is one of the best of the kind that has ever been 
written. His style of writing is eminently fitted to attract the public, being 
lively, chatty, and even humorous, combined with a large amount of graphic 
power of description. This leaves the reader in no doubt as to the author's 
meaning, and in no difficulty as to guessing what is the probable nature of his 
cough, while the indications for the various medicines are clear and well put. 
All through we find an excellent supply of common-sense advice, which is 
certainly of importance for the public to know. The chapters on Consumption 
and Change of Climate are particularly good,' and the latter will give much 
useful information to the professional man as well as the patient and the public 
in general. The book is, taken all in all, an excellent one, and one that does 
credit to Dr. Shuldham. We have difficulty in selecting a passage short enough 
for our space which would at the same time give a fair sample of the chief 
portions and merits of the work, and prefer therefore to leave it to the personal 
pcru-sal of the public, assuring them that they will enjoy it as a piece of writing, 
and derive benefit from its advice." — Monthly Homeopathic Rez'ievj. 

" Ruddock's mantle seems to have fallen on this author, the able editor of the 
Homtiopathic World. He writes in a very pleasant, popular style, and hence 
this work is not as strictly scientific reading as many works on this subject. 
The treatment given is elementary, but nevertheless valuable. If more cases of 
phthisis were treated with the elementary remedies, Hepar, Cnlc, Sulphur, 
Puis., etc., as sug8;csled by Jahr, we believe the mortality would be greatly 
lessened." — The United States Medical Investigator. 

Homceopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.C. 



2 74 The Stepping-Stone. 

NOW READY. 
TENTH EDITION f' 130,000 Copies), lettered, good binding, 
toned paper, witk a CLINICAL DIRECTORY, price is. 6d. ; 
ditto, elegant binding, gilt edged, for Presents, y. 6d. ; Cheap 
EditioK, wit/iout Clinical Directory, etc., is. 

The Stepping-Stone 
To Homoeopathy and Health. 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS ON PREVIOUS EDITIONS. 

" The present issue is both an enlargement of and an improvement upon its 
predecessors. Its use is not intended ■ to supersede the attendance of the 
properly qualified practitioner, but only as a guide to the treatment of trifling 
but painful ailments, oi" the prevention of more dangerous ones, by prescribing 
precautionary treatment."— PaW/c Opinion. 

" A perfect manual on a vital subject, and a copy should be in every home." — 
IVes/eyan Times. 

" Contains all that is essential to a domestic work, in an easily accessible form, 
and in more explicit and satisfactory language to the non-professional than 
many a larger and more pretentious work." — United States Medical and 
Surgical yournal. 

" He who has never opened the book before is able to find the remedy he 
wants." — Homxopa thic R ecord. 

"Nolens yolens, we physicians have tc give in, for laymen will, "without our 
permission, try their hand on doctoring ; and the best we can do is to instruct 
them to do it in the right manner ; and, after all, it pays even to the docftors, for 
there is no better proselyte- maker than a lay-woman who has performed some 
' miraculous cure ' with Aconite and Chantoniilla. May this and similar works 
be spread broadcast over the land. May they sow the seed, and the hom.Teo- 
pathic fraternity will enjoy the fruit. So may it be \"-^The North Ajneri .an 
Journalcf Homceopathy. 

"The issue of 100,000 (now 130,000) copies cf one of Dr. Ruddock's books 
indicates the number of those who are inquiring into, if not practising. Homoeo- 
pathy — for he is not the only homoeopathic writer, although he holds a high place 
amongst his compeers. An epitome of the homoeopathic system — exceedingly 
useful for learners." — From Dundee Advertiser. 

"This is a very comprehensive manual, on a very interesting subject. They 
who wish to obtain a clear bird's-eye view of the system will find the volume 
reliable." — British Standard. 

" The volume contains a great amount of information on the sj-mptoms, 
causes, and treatment of diseases of most frequent occurrence. It also treats of 
the diet and accessory measures connected with the practice of domestic 
Homoeopathy." — Halifax Observer. 

Homoeopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, B.C. 



The Homceopathic Vade Mecum. 275 

NOW READY. 
Ninth Edition. Sixty-third Thousattd. Thoroughly reznsed, wide 
margins, price lOs. 6d. ; kalf-boKttd, suitable /or presentation, 
libraries, medicine chests, etc., l^. : chenf abridged edition, 55. 

The Homoeopathic Vade Mecum 

OF 

MODERN MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 

With a Chapter on Poisons, a CLINICAL DIRECTORY 
(containing the Personal Experience of many Physicians^ an 
Appendix of Formulae, Table of Dilutions cf the F.emedie.s 
prescribed, and copious Index. 

Extracts from Reviews of former Editions. 

" A work which has been called for so frequently by the public as this, and 
within so short a time since its original publication, must be possessed of more 
than ordinary merit. . . . We shall only add that we know of no volume on 
the subject belter calculated to suit the requirements alike of the popular 
investigator and the professional student than that of Dr. Ruddock." — Edin- 
burgh Daily Review. 

" Dr. Ruddock has so fully and clearly filled in the des'gn, that his work well 
deserves the unu9i:al success it has gained." — Chemist and Druggist. 

" From preface to index it v/ears the aspect of a text-book, suited alike to the 
professional student, the clergyman of a parish, and the head of a family. ' — 
Church Standard. 

" Any one who has desires to be acquainted with the homoeopathic system of 
medicine should purchase Dr. Ruddock's l-'ade Mecun:. It is deservedly the 
most popular work of its sort." — -Eel/ast Weekly Observer. 

"The best work of the kind that has hitherto appeared. . . . We know 
of none that we can more confidently recommend," — Homircpatkic Rrz'iev.: 

Second Edition, enlarged, fcap. Svo. is. 6d. 

On Consumption and Tuberculosis 
of the Lungs. 

Their Diagnosis, Causes, I'rcveiiliiTii, and <ieneral Treatinctit, em- 
bodying the Mcxlem Views on these Diseases, with cases treated 
by the Author. 



Homceopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, B.C. 



276 Headaches, and the Voice. 

JUST PUBLISHED. Second Edition, RrAsed. Price is.; 
Post free on receipt of Stamps. 

Headaches : 

THEIR CAUSES AND TREATMENT. 

ByE. B. SHULDHAM, M.D., Trinity College, Dublin; 
M.R.C.S.: M.A. Oxon. 



OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

" This is a singularly pleasantly written little book, on a peculiarly painful 
subject. Written throughout in a lively style, its description of the variety of 
morbid phenomena leading up to and presented by headaches, are really 
picturesque. Dr Shuldham has indeed proved that it is possible to convey 
medical knowledge in an attractive and almost poetical manner. As the style is 
interesting and readable, so also is the matter useful and generally accurate." — 
Monthly Homixopathic Revinu 

" If headaches could be cured by pleasantry, we should recommend Dr. 
Shuldham's book as an infallible remedy. The mere perusal would certainly 
drive away an ailment of a less obstinate nature It is the most readable of 
medical treatises, and yet betokens a thorough acquaintance with the subject, 
the result of a close study and perhaps personal experience. The various kinds 
of headaches, and the remedies (homoeopathic) appropriate for each, are very 
explicitly described These who suffer from this distressing malady, and do not 
care to resort to medical assistance on each occasion, cannot do better than 
obtain a copy." — Sussex Daily News. 

JUST PUBLISHED. Strongly bound, cloth boards, wUh bevelled 
edges. Price 2s. Post fi ee on receipt of Stamps. 

The Voice : 

ITS MANAGEMENT IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. 

With Special Reference to Speech and Song ; or, 
CLERGYMAN'S SORE THROAT. 

Its Local, Constitutional, and Elocutionary Treatment, with a special 

Chapter on Hygiene of the Voice. 

By E. B. SHULDHAM, M.D., Trinity College, Dublin, 

M.R.C.S, M.A. Oxon. 

OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. 

" In ' Clergyman's Sore Throat,' Dr. E. B. Shuldham, himself a practised 
public lecturer, has put together a most useful treatise on Diseases of the 
Throat and Windpipe through over-axertion or mis-management of the breath 
in speaking, no less than on the 'Art of Breathing' and general ' Hygiene of the 
Voice.' These last two sections, even those who do not hold the homoeopathic 
rule of similia similiiiis curantur, can hardly fail to pronounce excellent." — 
The Graphic. 

"We think it necessary to start an objection to the title of this little book. 
. . . With this e.xception we have nothing but praise for L)r Shuldham s 
little book. It contains a good description of the symptoms and progress of the 
disease, has some excellent remarks on its etiology, and the therapeutic means 
for its cure are well and distinctly described. . . . We can cordially recom- 
mend it." — British yourtial of Homoeopathy. 

Hom(Bopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, E.G. 



Homeopathic Missionary Tractates. 277 

HomcEopathic Missionary Tractates. 

Fifth Edition^ much improved. 

1. Fallacies and Claims. Being a word to the world on 

Ilomceopathy. 

" It is the clearest and most cempreheiisive little treatise we have in our 
literature." — Dr. Hering. 

Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged. 

2. Ministers and Medicine. An Appeal to Christian Ministers 

on the subject of Homoeopathy. By Rev. Thomas 
Sims, M.A. (late Rector of St. Swithin'supon-Kin,£;sgate, 
Winchester), Author of "Letters on the Sacred Writings," 
&c 

3. Principles, Practice, and Progress of Homoeopathy. 

(Fourth Edition.) 

4. The Practical Test of Homoeopathy ; or. Cases of Cure 

hy Ilomceopathic Remedies, in the practice of various physi- 
cians. (Second Edition.) 

5. Measles ; its Complications and Fatality prevented 

by Homoeopathy. Being contributions from more than 
twenty medical men. (Second Edition.) 

6. Homoeopathy Explained : a Word to the Medical 

Profession. By Dr. John Wilde. 

7. Constipation ; its Origin and Homoeopathic Treat- 

ment, and the use of Enemata. By Dr. John Wilde. 

8. Scarlet Fever ; being an attempt to point out how the 

ravages of this very fatal disease may be limited. By 
Dr. John Maffey. 
The above tracts are published at One Penny each, or for 
enclosure in letters, &c., post free, 25 copies for 15 stamps, 50 for 
26 stamps, loo for 48 stamps. 

Catalogue of Homoeopathic Publications post free on Appli- 



LONDON: 

THE HOMCEOPATHIC PUBLISHING COMPANY, 

2, FiNSBURY Circus, E.C. 

And all Homoeopathic Chemists and Booksellers. 



2 7:8: Tht UomoeopaiJik World. 

KEA D V. Nrw and Enlarged Series, , Vol. XIII. , 1 8 78. 

THE HOMdOPATHIC WORLD, 

A Journal for the Exposition of the Law of 
Similars and the Elucidation of its Operation. 

Including Medical News -and Literature, Cases from .Practice,. Social 

and Sanitary Science, and Correspondence. 

Edited by E. B. SHULDHAM, M.D., Trinity College, Dublin ; 

M.R.C.S., M.A. Oxon- 



Elegantly bound, bevelled boards, gilt leitercu, price ']s. 6d. post free^ 

HOM(EOPATHIG WORLD VOLUME FOR 1878. 

Specially Suitable for Presentation to Libraries, Reading-rooms, etc. 

Monthly Parts, 6d. ; by post, ,7d. ; or prepaid, Cs. per annum, 
post free monthly. 

An idea of the Contents may be gathered from the Index in the 
December number. Each volume furnishes profitable reading, and 
will be found verv useful for reference. 

THE YEARLY VOLUMES 

From 1866 to 1874 inclusive, well bound in cloth, gilt lettered, 

price 5s. each, post free. 

Covers for binding for 1873 and 1874 and previous years, pries 

\s. each. Covers for 1875, 1876, 1877, a7id 1878, IJ-. td. each. 

" This Journal has been established thirteen years, and has received contribu-- 
tions from some of the best writers in the School. This Journal has very faith- 
fully represented the profession in England, and upon the establishment of a 
School of Homoeopathy in London, as proposed, will have additional oppor- 
tunities to disseminate the teachings and illustrate the practice of our system of 
cure." — Ohio Medical atid Surgical Reporter. 

" We can commend this Journal as the best our School ever published." — New 
En^lajid Medical Gazette. 

" Fills a void in homoeopathic literature. . . . The cheapest journal pub- 
lished. . . . Filled with well written articles." — Boericke and Tafel's 
Quarterly Bulletin. 

' ' Ranks much higher than any other popular homoeopathic journal." — 
American Homoeopathic Observer. 

" Believers in Homoeopathy are rapidly increasing, and a magazine so ably 
edited as this is, must be to them a welcome addition to their ordinary reading." 
— Public Opinion. 

All British and American Homoeopathic Medical Books. 

Catalogue of HoriKxopathic Publications, post fee, on of ■Plication. 

LONDON: HOMCEOPATHIC PUBLISHING COMPANY, 
2, FiNSBURY Circus, E C. 

HomcBopathic Publishing Company, 2, Finsbury Circus, B.C. 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



m Ruddock, Edward Harris 

215 EsBentials of diet 

R8 
1876 



BioMed 



