_____ <9, 



HIBRARYOJCOiNGIlESSJ 
I - >w V'^ t 

i UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. ^^ 

r V 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND: 

A Practical Cook-Book, 



COMPILED BY 



A LADY OF ZANESVILLE, 



AND SOLD FOB THE 



Benefit of the Home of the Friendless. 



"^ehold! his 'breakfasts shine with reputation / 
Jlis dinners are the wonder of the nation! 
With these he treats both commoners and quality j 
Who praise, where'er they go, his hospitality." 

"fill human history attests 
Q!hat happiness for man — the hungry sinner — 
Since Sve ate apples, must depend on dinner.^' 



ZANESVILLE, OHIO : ^ ''"' -^^ash^^^^^ ^> 

Sullivan & Parsons, Printers and Binders, 87 Main Street. 

1876. * 



o 



\^/ 



^^^ 

•^ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1876, by J. W. B., in the OflBce of the Librarian 
of Congress at Washington, I). C. 



PREFACE. 



This book is entirely practical — nothing else. It contains no 
theoretic dissertation on the culinary art, but is made up of receipts 
which have been kindly sent me by my friends, and thoroughly 
tested by them ; also many which have been my daily assistance for 
nineteen years in the management of my house, and the prepara- 
tion of various dishes served for large and small companies. 

The proceeds of the book will be devoted to the "Home of the 
Friendless," of Zanesville, Ohio, an institution most worthy of the 
patronage of all benevolent people. 

Hoping the work will find favor in the eyes of the public (if 
not for its own merits) for the noble cause it represents, I leave it 
with them, and ask their patronage and sympathy. 

J. W. B. 

Zanesville f January, 1876. 



MEASURES. 



FROM ST. LOUIS COOK BOOK. 

Wheat Flour, one pound is one quart. 

Indian Meal, one pound, two ounces is one quart. 

Butter when soft, one pound is one quart. 

Loaf Sugar, broken, one pound is one quart. 

White Sugar, powdered, one pound, one ounce is one quart. 

Best Brown Sugar, one pound, two ounces is one quart. 

Ten Eggs, are one quart. 

Flour, four pecks are one bushel. 

Sixteen large teaspoonfuls,. are one pint. 

Eight large teaspoonfuls, ...are one gill. 

Four large teaspoonfuls, are i gill. 

A common size mmbler, is J pint. 

A common size wine glass, is ^ gill. 

A tea-cup, is one gill. 

A large wine glass, is one gill. 

A large tabJespoonful, is h ounce. 

Forty drops equal to one teaspoonful. 

Four teaspoonfuls equal to one tablespoonful* 



DINNER BILL OF FARE. 



First Course. — Raw oysters, or raw clams with lemon. 

Second Course. — Soup, if two kinds, one light and the other dark. 

Third Course. — Fish, if two kinds, one boiled and the other baked, with 
cucumber salad. 

Fourth Course. — Roast meats, with two or three vegetables, and celery. 

Fifth Course. — Game or chicken ; salad and currant jelly. 

Sixth Course. — Pie or pudding. 

Seventh Course. — Ice-cream, jelly, cake, Charlotte Russe, &c., &c. 

Eighth Course. — Fruit. 

Ninth Course. — Bon-bons, dried fruits, nuts. 

Tenth Course. — Coffee. 

Asparagus or cauliflower make a very nice course, between the meat 
and game course. 



COMBINATIONS 



Mutton chops and tomato sauce are good together. 

Roast mutton, currant jelly and turnips. 

Venison and currant jelly. 

Any kind of game, and currant jelly. 

Any kind of game and salad. 

Fish and cucumbers. 

Raw oysters and lemon. 

Roast goose, and apple sauce. 

Roast duck and apple sauce. 

Turkey and cranberry sauce. 

Fried oysters and salad. 

Onions with all kinds of poultry. 

Lamb and peas. 

Salmon and peas. 

Sweet-breads and tomatoes. 

Boiled mutton and caper sauce, turnips. 

Roast lamb and mint sauce. 

Cresses with chicken. 

Tomatoes are nice with anything- 



THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 



SOTJIPS. 



VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Put a pint of Lima beans, a half dozen large tomatoes, two tea- 
cupfuls of dried corn, or corn cut from the cob, a few snap-beans, 
and two teaspoonfuls of dried ochra into five quarts of water, with 
three slices of lean ham. Boil for two hours, and season with salt 
and pepper. Remove the ham before sending to table. Thicken 
with yellow of egg and a little flour. A nice winter soup is made 
by boiling a few slices of lean ham, half a pint of dried Lima 
beans, a few heads of celery cut up, and turnips and potatoes sliced 
thin. A fourth of a teacupful of dried ochra will be a nice addi- 
tion, and a grated carrot, or half a teacupful of stewed tomatoes, 
preserved in cans, will improve the color. If thickening is required 
add some made of browned flour and water. Two tablespoonfuls 
of pepper-sauce will improve it. Put it in after it is in the tureen. 

OYSTER SOUP. ( Without Oysters. ) 

MRS. HEREON, CINCINNATI. 

Boil one and a half dozen onions in water enough to cover them; 
if the onions are small take two dozen, if strong, boil a turnip with 
them which will destroy the strong taste. When they are soft 
enough, mash them very smooth through a colander, then boil them 
again in one quart of milk. Mix one teaspoonful of flour with 
one tablespoonful of butter, and stir in the soup. Let it boil up 
thoroughly and season with pepper, salt, and mace. 



THE HOUSEKEEPER S FRIEND. 



PEA SOUP. 



Soak a quart of split peas in cold water over night. Then put 
them into a pot with two gallons of water, six cold boiled potatoes, 
two onions well sliced, one pound of pork or an old ham-bone or 
one pound of dried beef. Cover very closely ; boil very slowly for 
five hours. Season to the taste with pepper and salt. One table- 
spoonful of celery seed imparts a fine flavor. Serve the pork on a 
platter with vegetables after the soup. 

TOMATO SOUP. (No. 1.) 

MRS. HERRON, CINCINNATI. 

Take two quarts of tomatoes, one small marrow bone, one cucum- 
ber, one onion, six ochras, and three pints of water. Wash the 
tomatoes, scald the water, scald the tomatoes in it, and then use it 
for the soup. Rub the tomatoes through a colander. Boil all the 
materials three hours, stirring frequently. When it begins to 
thicken add boiling water until it becomes the right consistency. 
Just before it is done add one teaspoonful of flour. Season with 
cayenne pepper and salt. 

TOMATO SOUP. (No. 2.) 

Cook thoroughly, as for canning, some tomatoes, about one 
quart after they are cooked, season with pepper, salt and butter. 
Then pour into a large tureen three pints of boiling milk; stir in 
together a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a small quantity of 
cold milk, and the tomatoes. These should be stirred in simultane- 
ously with the soda. Add some rolled crackers, and serve imme- 
diately. This is equal to oyster soup. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Strain the liquor from two quarts of oysters, add to it an equal 
quantity of water. Put it on to boil, and skim it. Then throw in 
a little white pepper, a head of celery cut in small pieces, and a 
third of a pound of batter, with two teaspoonfuls of flour rubbed 
in it. Boil it five minutes longer, and put in the oysters, and a 



SOUPS, 9 

pint of cream, and after one more boil pour into the tureen, in 
which have some toasted bread cut in small pieces, and a little 
finely cut parsley. 

To Prepare a Beef's Head as Stock for Soup. 

Cut up the head into small pieces, and boil in a large quantity of 
water until it is boiled all to pieces. Take out all the bones, as in 
making cheese souse, and boil again until thick. Then season very 
highly with pepper, salt, catsup, allspice, and onions chopped fine. 
Place in a crock or jar, and set away for future use. For a small 
family cut out a thick slice, (say five inches square,) whenever you 
want soup in a hurry, and add about one quart of boiling water. 
It need cook for a few minutes only, and is valuable as keeping 
well, and being ready for times of emergency. By the addition of 
a few sliced hard-boiled eggs, and a gill of good cooking wine, 
this soup may have very nearly the flavor of mock-turtle. 

VERMICELLI SOUP. 

DIXIE COOK BOOK. 

Put four pounds of any kind of fresh meat, except pork, into a 
gallon of cold water, cover close, and boil gently until the meat is 
tender. Throw in a head of celery, and half an hour afterwards 
take it from the fire, strain and return it to the pot. Season with 
salt and^ pepper. Add vermicelli, which has been scalded in boil- 
ing water in the proportion of four ounces to two quarts of soup. 
Let it boil ten minutes, and pour into the tureen. 

NOODLE SOUP 

Is made in the same way, except that strips of paste are substi- 
tuted for the vermicelli. The paste is prepared by beating three 
eggs very light, and making them into a stifi" dough with flour 
and water. They are then kneaded well and rolled very thin, cut 
into fine narrow strips, and dried a short time on dishes in the sun 
or oven; if you do this they must be soaked a short time before 
putting them in the soup, but I often put them in without drying. 
They will require to be boiled a little longer than vermicelli. 



10 THE HOUSEKEEPEE's FRIEND. 

RICH WHITE SOUP. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Take a pair of large fat fowls and cut them up. Butter the soup 
pot and put in the pieces, with two pounds of the lean of veal cut 
in pieces. Season with one-half teaspoonful of salt, same of cay- 
enne pepper and mace, cover with water and stew slowly for an 
hour, skimming it well. Then take out the breasts and wings of 
the fowls and chop the meat fine, leaving the rest stewing. Mix 
the chopped chicken with the grated crumbs of a quarter of a loaf 
of stale bread, having soaked the crumbs in a little warm milk. 
Have ready the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, one dozen sweet 
almonds and six bitter ones, blanched and broken small. Mix 
6ggs, almonds, chicken, and bread, pound well in a mortar, strain 
the soup from the meat and fowl, and stir this mixture in after it is 
reduced to two quarts. Boil separately one quart of cream or rich 
milk, and add it hot to the soup a little at a time, and let it simmer 
a few minutes longer. 

RICH BROWN SOUP. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Take six pounds of lean fresh beef, cut from the bone. Stick 
over it four dozen cloves. Season it with one teaspoonful of salt, 
one teaspoonful of pepper, same of mace and nutmegs ; (onions ; ) 
Pour on five quarts of water and stew slowly five or six hours, skim- 
ming well. When the meat is in shreds, strain it, and return the 
liquid to the pot, then add a tumbler and a half of claret or port 
wine. Simmer it slowly until dinner time or until reduced to three 
quarts. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Cut up two chickens, and put them in a pot with five quarts of 
cold water. Season with salt and pepper. Let them boil until the 
meat is very well done, and remove it from the liquor, and cut it 
up into small pieces. Put in the soup a quarter of a pound of 
butter mixed with a little flour, and a pint of cream. Throw in 
the cut meat, and just before you serve it add the beaten yolks of 



FISH. 11 

two eggs, and a little parsley. You may also add (if in season) a 
pint of green corn cut from the cob, and put in when it is half 
done. Squirrel soup is made in the same way. 



IPISII, 



TO BAKE A SHAD, OR WHITE PISH. 

Prepare a stuffing of bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter, and a 
little parsley, mix it up with the beaten yolk of two or three eggs, 
according to the quantity of stuffing required ; fill the fish with it, 
and tie a string firmly about it. Pour over it a little water, and 
some butter, and bake as you would a fowl. A shad will require 
from an hour to an hour and a quarter to bake. White fish not 
quite as long. Rock fish is baked in the same way, but requires 
a longer time to cook. 

TO BOIL SALT SHAD OR MACKEREL. 

DIXIE COOK BOOK. 

If very salt, the fish must be soaked twelve hours in plenty of 
cold water. Or if the water is changed, a shorter time will be 
required. Put it into a skillet or frying-pan, with cold water 
enough to cover it, and let it boil fifteen minutes. Then change the 
water for fresh hot water, and after boiling in this fifteen minutes 
longer, take it up, and serve with drawn butter, and garnish with 
parsley. Another nice way to dress salt fish, is to boil together for 
ten minutes a tea-cup of cream, some cut parsley, and a little 
butter and pepper, and if the cream is not very thick, a beaten 
yolk of an egg, and pour it over the fish when it is ready to send 
to the table. 



12 THE HOTJSEKEEPER*S FRIEKt). 

FRIED OYTSERS. 

Make a batter of the yellow of egg, flour, and a little water. 
Roll some cracker very fine, and after wiping the oysters, dip first 
into the batter, and then into the cracker. Fry them in half lard 
and half butter, till a rich brown. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Fill a buttered dish with alternate layers of oysters and grated 
bread-crumbs, pepper, butter, and salt, (a piece of mace to each 
layer is an additiou,) have a thick layer of crumbs on top. Place 
in a moderately heated oven, and bake fully an hour. When it 
commences to brown on top, place a paper over it, and allow to 
bake thoroughly through, then remove the paper, and brown to a 
rich color on top. No oyster liquor need be put in, as there will be 
enough when they are cooked. 

OYSTER PIE. 

Strain the liquor from the oysters, and put it on to boil with 
butter, and pepper, and a thickening of bread-crumbs and milk 
well beaten together, and after boiling a few minutes, throw in the 
oysters. Let them remain five minutes, take them ofi*, and when 
warm add the beaten yolks of three eggs. Line a buttered dish 
with a paste, and fill with white paper or a clean napkin, to sup- 
port a lid of paste, and bake it. When lightly browned, take off 
the lid, remove the napkin, pour in the oysters, set a few minutes in 
the oven, and send to table hot. 

SPICED OYSTERS. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Pick over and wash the oysters, strain the liquor, and pour it 
over the oysters again. Then put over the fire with cloves, mace 
and pepper, and let them come to a boil, then skim them. When 
quite cool, add enough vinegar to suit your taste, and slice a lemon 
into it. 



EGGS. 13 

SCRAMBLED OYSTERS. 

MRS. MERSHON. 

Put your oysters iu a colander, and allow all the liquor to run 
through. Into this liquor put a lump of butter about as large as a 
walnut, some pepper and salt. Put it on the stove and let it get 
thoroughly hot, then put your oysters into it. Have ready some 
bread nicely toasted, place it on a flat dish, and when the oysters 
are thoroughly cooked pour them over the toast. 

COD PISH BALLS. 

Take cod-fish either salt or fresh, that has been boiled ; remove 
the bones carefully and mince the fish ; mix with it some mashed 
potatoes, one-third cod-fish and two-thirds potatoes, season with 
butter and pepper, and mix all together until quite smooth ; if it 
seems dry moisten with a little cream or milk, or the beaten yolk 
of an egg. Make into small cakes, sprinkle with flour, and fry in 
hot lard to a nice brown. Send to table hot. 



EGO-S 



OMELET. (Delicious,) 

MRS. SILVEY. 

Eight eggs, one tea-cup of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of flour, 
one tablespoonful of melted butter. Beat the whites of four of the 
eggs separately, beat the yolks of the eggs very light, mix in the 
other ingredients, then pour into a frying-pan with a small quan- 
tity of butter ; as it stiffens put the whites over it, cut into slices, 
and roll over and over with a broad knife, salt and pepper as you 
turn it. Put only about a third of the yolk into the pan at a time, 
also reserving the same quantity of the whites, so as to send into the 
table several times hot. 



14 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

OMELET. (No. 2.) 

MRS. HERRON, CINCINNATI. 

Seven eggs beaten separately. To the yolks add one-half tea-cup 
milk, two small tablespoonfuls of flour, one teaspoonfnl of salt, then 
add the whites after they have been beaten light. Place in a skillet 
or frying-pan, one cup of butter ; after it becomes hot, pour in some 
of the mixture, let it brown, and then fold over, and work in a 
trifle more. It should be quite brown on the outside, and soft in 
the middle. 

OMELET. (No. 3.) 

Take three tablespoonfuls of milk for each egg, a pinch of salt 
to each one also, beat the eggs lightly for three or four minutes, 
and pour them into a hot pan, in which a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut has been melted a moment before. The mass will 
begin to bubble, and rise in flakes immediately, and the bottom 
must be lifted incessantly with a knife, to allow the softer part to 
run in. An omelet should be cooked about three or four minutes, 
and made in this way will melt in the mouth. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Melt a tablespoonful of butter in a saucepan ; beat the yolks of 
six eggs a few minutes, then add to them six tablespoonfuls of milk, 
and a teaspoonful of salt, beat a little longer, and pour them into 
the melted butter. When they thicken slightly, pour in the whites 
unbeaten, and mix them with the yolks carefully with a fork. 
Serve on pieces of toast in a hot dish, or if preferred omit the toast. 
The whites should not be beaten in hard, only stirred with the fork 
enough to mix slightly with the rest. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. (A More Simple Way.) 

Beat six or eight eggs very light, add a little salt, and put into a 
warm frying-pan with a small quantity of butter. Stir them until 
they are well thickened, but not hard ; sprinkle a little pepper 
over them, and send to table in a hot dish. 



SAUCES. 15 

OMELET. 

MRS. B. WHEELER. 

Five eggs, one-half cup of milk, one tablespoonful of flour, a 
little salt. Break the eggs separately, whites on a plate and yolks 
in a bowl. Beat each thoroughly, and stir the milk and flour with 
the yolks. Have your skillet very hot, and buttered well, turn half 
the yolks into it, and spread half the beaten whites on top. It 
will brown in a moment, then roll over and over as you would a 
jelly-cake roll. 



(for meats.) 



DRAWN BUTTER. 

Mix together, one quarter of a pound of butter, and one table- 
spoonful of flour. Put one pint of water into a kettle, and when 
it boils, stir in the flour, and butter, Season with salt, and white 
pepper, and celery if in season, removing the*stalks of celery before 
sending to the table. It will require but a few minutes boiling, 
and must be stirred constantly. 

EGG SAUCE 

Is made as drawn butter, with the addition of six hard boiled 
eggs cut in small pieces, and stirred in a few minutes before remov- 
ing from the Are. This sauce is usually served with fish. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Take the leaves of young mint, and cut up finely, and to three 
tablespoonfuls of chopped mint add one of sugar, and vinegar suf- 
ficient to moisten the mint, and sugar well. Put in a little salt, 
and serve with roast lamb. 



16 THE housekeeper's FRIEND. 

YORKSmRE PUDDING. (To eat with Roast Beef.) 

MRS. QUETTING OF BROOKLYN. 

One pint of milk, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and flour to 
make a batter half as thick as for pan cakes. Bake in the fat of 
the meat, and eat with the beef gravy. Place it on the dish under 
the beef when you serve it. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Cut up a large bunch of celery into small pieces. Use only that 
which is blanched, throw aside the green tops. Put it into a pint 
of water and boil until it is tender. Then add a teaspoonful of 
flour, and a lump of butter the size of an egg, mixed well together. 
Season with salt and white pepper, and stir constantly until removed 
from the fire. It is nice with boiled poultry. 



SJ^L^IDS. 



A RECEIPT FOR SALAD. 

SIDNEY SMITH. 

To make this condiment your poet begs, 

The pounded yellow of two hard-boiled eggs ; 

Two boiled potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, 

Smoothness and softness to the salad give ; 

Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 

And, half suspected, animate the whole ; 

Of mordant mustard add a single spoon. 

Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ; 

But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 

To add a double quantity of salt ; 

Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca crown, 

And twice with vinegar, procured from town ; 



SALADS. 17 

And lastly, o'er the flavored compound toss 

A magic soup^on of anchovy sauce. 

O green and glorious ! O herbaceous treat ! 

'T would tempt the dying anchorite to eat ; 

Back to the world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 

And plunge his fingers in the salad-bowl ; 

Serenely full, the epicure would say, 

"Fate cannot harm me, — I have dined to-day." 

Chicken Salad. (For Four Chickens.) 

MRS. GRANT, PHILADELPHIA. 

The yolks of ten hard boiled eggs, the yolks of three raw eggs, 
one small teaspoonful of fine salt, one-half teaspoonful of cayenne 
pepper, one and a half tablespoonfuls of mustard mixed w^ith a 
little vinegar, one tea-cup of vinegar, one-half bottle of the best 
salad oil. Process : Break the yolks of three eggs into a deep dish, 
add the mustard, mix it well, drop the oil in, stirring all the time. 
Then take yolks of the ten hard boiled eggs, mash them up fine, 
mixing in the salt, pepper and vinegar. Let this second dressing 
be lightly stirred into the first. Then season the chickens with 
pepper and salt, cut them up fine, and add the celery. Mix the 
dressing well through it leaving enough of the celery tops to garnish 
the dish for the table. The celery should be nicely cleansed, cut 
fine, and put to soak in cold water until wanted, then turn on a 
cloth, and wipe it quite dry. Have about as much Celery as chicken. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil two (or if not very large, three) chickens; when cold remove 
all the meat from the bones, also the skin, and chop or cut rather 
fine. Wash and separate two large heads of celery, if celery can- 
not be procured, a good substitute is the nice tender part of a cab- 
bage, with celery seed added to flavor it. For dressing, see salad 
dressing. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Make a dressing of the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs, some 
salt, pepper, a little oil, mustard, and vinegar. Make these 



18 THE housekeeper's FRIEND. 

ingredients into a smooth paste about the consistency of cream. 
Mash the meat of the lobster with a little cold water, just enough 
to soften it, and cut up a head of lettuce into small pieces, and mix 
with it. Season the lettuce and meat with cayenne pepper, and a 
little salt, and mix them with the dressing just before sending to 
table. The different condiments must be in such proportion that 
no one shall predominate. 

SWEET BREAD SALAD. 

MRS. HERRON, CINCINNATI. 

One dozen sweet breads, (first soak an hour in clear water,) boil, 
and pick to pieces, removing all gristle and fat; break up into quite 
small pieces. Pour over this the mayonnaise dressing, made of ten 
eggs. Lay on lettuce, and if your sweet breads are small mix 
with lettuce. This makes sufficient for forty guests, and is a 
delightful side dish. 

POTATO SALAD. 

MRS. J. QUETTING, BROOKLYN. 

Boil a half dozen, or eight, good-sized potatoes in the skin, when 
done peel them, and cut in fine slices, cut a small piece of onion 
very fine. Take two hard boiled eggs, and rub the yolks in two 
tablespoonfuls of sdlad oil, add pepper, salt and vinegar, chop the 
whites of the eggs very fine, and add to the sauce. Pour the sauce 
over the potatoes, and mix well. There should be sauce enough 
just to moisten them thoroughly. 

HAM SALAD. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLICOTHE. 

One pound of boiled ham, chopped fine, one-half dozen pickles, 
chopped fine. Make a dressing as you would for chicken salad, 
adding a little celery seed, but not as much salt. 

CHICKEN SALAD DRESSING. 

* MRS. SILVEY, 

Yolks of eight eggs, well beaten, one-quarter pound of sugar, (if 
preferred) one tablespoonful of salt, two of prepared mustard, a 



MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 1§ 

Very little cayenne pepper, half cup cream, one pint of vinegar, one 
cup of butter ; boil to the consistency of custard. Add some salad 
of oil if you prefer. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING. 

MRS. HERRON. 

Yolks of two hard boiled eggs, well mashed ; add the yolks of 
two raw eggs, one teaspoonful dry mustard ; salt and cayenne 
pepper to the taste. As much salad oil as you please, poured drop 
by drop, and well stirred in one tablespoonful of vinegar. This 
dressing is used for chicken salad dressing, and also for lettuce, 
tomatoes, salmon, sweet-breads and chopped celery. 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Two tablespoonfuls of mustard, one large teaspoonful of sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt. Pour on enough boiling water to wet 
it. When cool add a tablespoonful of salad oil, and vinegar enough 
to make it thin. 



MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 



TO CORN BEEP. 

MRS. ALVAH BUCKINGHAM. 

Have your beef or pork cut up in suitable pieces for cooking. 
Then pack them, not too tightly, in a tight hogshead or barrel, 
placing a weight on the top. Then make enough brine to cover it, 
in the following proportion : To four gallons of water use eight 
pounds of salt, two ounces of saltpetre, au4 one quart of molasses, 



20 THE hoitsekeeper's friend. 

place in a kettle, and bring it to a boil ; skim thoroughly, then 
pour off in some vessel until it cools, then pour it over your beef. 
Your pieces for drying take out in six weeks and smoke. Let your 
corn beef, and pickled pork remain in the brine until wanted for 
use. If in the spring the brine moulds, pour it off and bring it to 
a boil again, skim as before, and pour it over the beef again hot. 

VEAL PATE. 

Three pounds of veal, chopped fine, before it is cooked. Five 
soda crackers rolled fine, piece of butter larger than an egg, one 
tablespoonful salt, one tablespoonful of pepper. Mix thoroughly 
together, mould into a loaf and put into a pan with a little water. 
Roast three hours, basting it often. 

VEAL LOAF. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLICOTHE. 

Three pounds of clear veal, one quarter pound of salt pork, 
chopped fine, one tea-cup of cracker crumbs, one nutmeg, two eggs 
well beaten, two teaspoonfuls of pepper, two teaspoonfuls of salt, a 
little mace, parsley or sage, a little lemon peel and the juice of one 
lemon, a small piece of butter. Bake in pans, or steam it three 
hours, wrapped closely in a cloth. 

VEAL OUTLET. 

Pound your cutlets until tender, beat up the yolks of two or 
three eggs, with pepper and salt, grate a quantity of bread crumbs. 
First drop your cutlets into the egg, and then in the bread crumbs, 
and fry. A little parsley improves the flavor. You may use flour 
instead of bread crumbs if you prefer. 

SAUSAGE MEAT. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLICOTHE. 

To one hundred pounds of chopped meat, add two and a half 
pounds of salt, ten ounces of black pepper, and eight ounces of 
well dried sage leaves. Mix well. 



Meats, i*oultry, etc. 21 

CHICKEN PUDDING. 

MKS. C. roKTER. 

Five eggs beateu very light, one pint of milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter, a little pepper and salt; put in flour sufficient 
to make a batter as thick as for pancakes ; cut up a chicken, boil 
until tender, pick out the large bones, put it in a baking dish, pour 
over it the batter and bake until brown. You may add a few 
oysters if in season, and serve with the gravy the chicken was 
boiled in. 

A Very Nice Way to Cook Chickens. 

Cut the chicken up, put it in a pan and cover it with water ; 
let it stew as usual, and when done make a thickening of cream, 
and flour, adding a piece of butter, pepper and salt. Have made 
and baked two short cakes, made as for pie crust, but rolled thin, 
and cut in small squares. This is much better than chicken pie, 
and more simple to make. Lay the crust on the dish, and pour the 
chicken and gravy over it while both are hot. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTS. 

MRS. HERRON, CINCINNATI. 

Boil one large chicken, pick to pieces and chop fine ; make a 
panada ot three-quarters of a pound of light bread crumbs, a half 
pound of butter, and a little water ; cook until the consistency of 
mush, and set away to cool. Add to the chicken, one nutmeg, 
pepper, and salt to taste, one teaspoouful chopped onion, one of 
parsley and a very little mace. Boil five eggs hard, rub the yolks 
and mix with the chicken, add the panada, mix well, and make out 
in shape of pears. Roll them in eggs beaten light, then in bread 
crumbs, and fry brown in hot lard, as you would fry doughnuts. 
You must have a pound of meat. Veal makes nice croquetts. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTS. (No. 2.) 

Take the white and dark meat of a nicely roasted or boiled 
chicken, (the former preferred as it contains the most nutriment,) 



22 I'HE flOV8EKEE:^ER's FRIEND. 

chop it fine, and season highly with pepper and salt. Moisten it 
with a little of its own gravy, and form it into oval balls with the 
fingers, dip each one into an egg well beaten, and then roll in 
bread or cracker crumbs, and fry in boiling lard or butter. Serve 
on a hot platter, ornamenting the dish with slices of pickled beet, 
and sprig of parsley or celery leaves. A good way to shape cro- 
quetts is by using a wine or jelly glass. 

OLD-FASHIONED POT-PIE. 

« 

MARTHA WELLS HALE. 

Cut up one or two nice chickens, put into a deep pot, and boil 
until done. Then take some bread-dough, (a good time to make 
this is on baking day,) and after working in some shortening, just 
as if you were making ordinary light rolls. Make them out into 
rolls or dumplings, and set aside to rise. When the chicken is suf- 
ficiently done, make a rich gravy ; about a half hour before you 
are ready to serve them, drop into the pot with your chicken and 
gravy your dumplings ; cover tight, and do not lift the lid, under 
any circumstances until done. A half hour is sufficient to boil them. 
Serve immediately, for if allowed to stand they will fall. 

BEEP, ALAMODE. 

Procure a fine beefsteak, have it cut extra thick, then pound it 
well, season with salt and pepper ; make a stuffing as you Would 
for a turkey, spread it on the steak quite thick, then roll up and 
bind securely with tape, put it into a dripping-pan with water suffi- 
cient to cover it. Let it stew slowly for two or three hours, add 
boiling water if more water is needed. The gravy will require no 
thickening, but a glass of wine will improve it, 

A Nice Breakfast Relish. 

Chip some smoked beef, and drop into boiling water to soften. 
Let it lie ten minutes, and then put it into a skillet with a little 
boiling water, and stir gently for twenty minutes. Pour off* the 
water, put in a little butter, and some pepper, and pour in a half 
tea-cup of cream five minutes before taking from the fire. 



MEATS, POULTRY, ETC. 23 

CHICKEN PIE. 

MRS. NYE. 

Line a pan with pastry, then fill with disjointed pieces of chicken, 
and strips or squares of dough ; sprinkle with pepper and salt, sift 
in a very little flour, and add small pieces of butter ; cover the top 
with pastry leaving a slit in the center ; fill the pan with water, and 
let it bake an hour and a half. Just before serving fill the pan 
again with water. If the chicken is tough it should be boiled be- 
fore putting in the pie, amd the water used for the gravy. 

BEEF BOUILLE. 

Rub salt and pepper thoroughly into your beef, (the rump or 
brisket pieces are the best,) and steam it about five hours over 
water into which is put pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, summer 
savory, thyme, onions, carrots, two turnips cut fine, some parsley, 
celery and tomatoes if possible. When the meat is perfectly tender 
take it up ; take out the carrots from the gravy, strain, thicken and 
boil. Pour over the meat just before placing it on the table. 

ROLLED BEEFSTEAK. 

AN OLD CINCINNATI HOUSEKEEPER. 

Take a flank steak, wash and pound it well, chop one onion very 
fine and spread it over the steak, then sprinkle over it a teaspoon- 
ful of salt, a little red pepper, a teaspoonful of ground mace, a tea- 
spoonful of ground allspice, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground 
cloves and a half teaspoonful of nutmeg. Roll it up, and as you 
roll it sprinkle it with pepper, salt and a small quantity of spice, 
(the same you have been using,) tie firmly with a string ; put it 
into a pot and just cover with water. Let it boil two hours, (keep 
it covered well with water,) until so soft that a fork will pene- 
trate easily, then remove it from the pot, and set it where it will 
keep hot, and allow the gravy to stew down to a half pint. Thicken* 
this with a small quantity of flour, add a small piece of butter, and 
pour this over the steak after it has been put on the dish for the 
table. 



24 THE housekeeper's friend. 

HASH. 

Chop up your meat tolerably fine, also some cold boiled potatoes, 
season with a little butter, salt and pepper, add some water (very 
little), and let it cook well together ; have it almost dry, then put 
it on a dish, form it nicely in an oval shape, smooth over the top, 
place it in the oven and bake a dark brown. Serve on this same 
dish. Cold corn beef makes very nice hash. 

FRENCH HASH. 

Chop up very fine any kind of cold meat, put it into a frying or 
stew pan. season with butter, salt and pepper, put in some water, 
and allow it to cook well ; just before it is done put in a little 
cream. Have some bread nicely toasted, place it on a large dish, 
and put a spoonful of the hash on each piece, pouring any gravy 
that is in the dish over it. This makes a very nice breakfast dish. 



"V^EOETJLBLES 



EGG PLANT. 

Cut in slices half an inch thick, sprinkle with salt, and let them 
stand a few minutes to extract the bitter taste. Wash in cold 
water, wipe them dry ; season with pepper, dip in yolk of egg, and 
then in flour or cracker crumbs, and fry in butter. If you wish 
them for breakfast, a good plan is to cut them the night before, 
sprinkle with salt, and soak in the morniug in fresh water an hour 
before frying. 

CORN OYSTERS. (No. 1.) 

Take a dozen ears of corn, grate it off the cob, and add one pint 
of new milk, two teaspoonfuls of ground pepper, one teaspoonful 



VEGETABLES. 25 

of salt, one tea-cup of flour ; stir together, and fry them small in 
hot butter. 

CORN OYSTERS. (No. 2.) 

Cut the corn through the grain, and use a knife to scrape the 
pulp from the cob. Make a batter of two eggs, well beaten, two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt and pepper, and about a half- 
pint of milk. Beat the whole well together, and drop a spoonful 
at a time into hot lard, and fry brown. 

GREEN CORN PUDDING. 

Cut the corn in the same way as for corn oysters. Take two 
eggs, one quart of milk, a little flour, some salt, and the corn, and 
beat all together well. It must be of a consistency to pour easily. 
Grease the dish well, (a common pudding dish,) and pour the mix- 
ture in, and bake with a quick heat for half an hour. Six ears of 
corn will be sufficient for a quart of milk. 

SARATOGA POTATOES. 

Slice the potatoes very thin on a cabbage cutter ; lay them in cold 
water for an hour, or if you desire them for breakfast, let them 
stand in the water over night ; then drain them, and spread on a 
dry towel ; wipe each piece dry, and drop a few at a time in boiling 
lard as you would when frying crullers, brown lightly, and as they 
are done take out with a skimmer, lay on a plate, and sprinkle a 
little fine salt over them. A very nice dish for a lunch, is to have 
some of these potatoes piled up in pyramid form on a platter, and 
place mutton chops around them, with the large end down, and bone 
standing up to help support the cone of the pyramid. Of course 
this must be served hot. 

CORN PUDDING. 

MRS. STEWART, PA. 

One quart of milk, two eggs, one-half cup of butter, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one dozen ears of corn. Grate the corn from 
4 



26 THE housekeeper's friend. 

the cob, beat up the eggs, add the corn, and stir hard, then add the 
butter, sugar, and a little salt, and pepper, lastly the milk. Bake 
in a moderate oven about half an hour. 

SALSIFY, OR OYSTER PLANT. 

Scrape the roots, dropping them in cold water to prevent turning 
dark. Cut in pieces about an inch long, put them into a sauce-pan 
with hot water sufficient to cover, and let them stew until tender. 
Then turn off the water, mash them, and make a batter of two eggs, 
a little salt and butter, and flour sufficient for a thick batter ; add 
this to the salsify, mix up, make in small cakes, and fry in hot lard. 
Serve on a hot water dish. 

BOILED SALSIFY. 

Wash and scrape nicely, cut in pieces about an inch in length, 
and boil until tender, but not broken. Then make a dressing of a 
cup of cream, or milk thickened with flour, a piece of butter, salt, 
and pepper, boil it, and then pour over the salsify. Serve ho.t. 

SOUR BEANS. 

MRS. QUETTING. 

Cut in pieces, and boil string beans until they are done, drain 
through a sieve perfectly dry. Put into a sauce-pan a tablespoon- 
ful of butter, a teaspoonful of flour, pepper, salt, and a little vine- 
gar, (about a tablespoonful,) put in the beans, and let all cook 
together five minutes. Just before taking up, beat an egg light, 
and add to it. 

COLD SLAW. 

Beat together the yolks of three eggs, add a tea-cup of cream, 
three tablespoonfuls best cider vinegar, a piece of butter size of an 
egg. Put all together on the fire, stirring constantly until it comes 
to a boil, and pour over the cabbage ; which must be previously 
cut fine, with a little salt sprinkled through it, also a tablespoonful 
of horse-radish, or fine mixed mustard. 



VEGETABLESi 27 

COLD SLAW. (Very Fine.) 

Take a plate of cut cabbage, a teacupful of chopped celery, and 
a third of a tea-cup of grated horse-radish. Season with salt. 
Make a dressing as for lettuce, with the yolks of four eggs boiled 
hard, rubbed into a smooth paste, with oil, mustard, salt, pepper, 
and vinegar, stir this mixture into the cabbage a few moments 
before dinner. 

SPINACH. • 

Pick it over and wash thoroughly, then boil in salt and water, 
pour over melted butter and vinegar, and sprinkle on some pepper, 
and serve either with poached eggs laid over the top, or with thinly 
sliced hard boiled eggs . 

MACARONI. 

Put the macaroni into a pot of boiling water, with a little salt in 
it, and let it cook ten minutes. Then pour on fresh hot water, and 
milk in equal quantities, and boil ten minutes more. Then put it 
into a deep dish, with alternate layers of butter, and grated cheese, 
until the dish is full, having macaroni on the top, with a little 
butter on it without cheese. Bake in an oven for half an hour. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Scoop out the inside of a dozen large tomatoes, without spoiling 
their shape. Pass the inside through a sieve, and then mix it with 
grated bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and any herbs you desire, or you 
may omit the herbs. Stew this about ten minutes, and then stuff 
the tomatoes with the mixture, tying a string round each to keep 
them in shape. Sprinkle them all over with fine bread-crumbs. 
Set them in a buttered dish, and bake them in an oven ; before 
serving take off the strings. Egg plant may be cooked in the same 
manner. 

TO STEW TOMATOES. 

Wash, and pour boiling water over them ; peel off the skins, and 
cut them up. Season with pepper, salt and butter, cook them in 
their own juice, half an hour. Thicken with bread-crumbs, and 
after ten piinutes take them up. 



28 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIENB. 

ONIONS. 

Boil in water until nearly done, and then pour over fresh hot 
water, with milk in it. Drain, and dress with drawn butter, and a 
little salt and pepper sprinkled over them. 

BEETS. 

They are usually plain- boiled, and dressed with melted butter, 
vinegar, pepper and salt. 

NEW POTATOES. 

Scrape the skins from them, and let them remain in cold water 
for an hour or two, then put them into your kettle, cover with 
water, and let them boil for a half hour ; try them by sticking with 
fork. Then drain the water off; let stand a few minutes, make a 
sauce of a little milk thickened with flour, a piece of butter, salt, 
and pepper, pour over the potatoes, and serve hot. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Prepare the potatoes nicely by paring, and washing, put them 
into a vessel, and cover with water ; let them boil a half hour, or 
until they are tender ; then drain the water from them, and let 
them steam with the lid partly off for ten minutes ; then mash them 
perfectly smooth, and beat a good deal, dress them with salt, butter, 
and cream. Serve them hot. A very nice way to serve them is to 
press them through a colander with the potato masher in the dish 
you serve them in, but the dish must be very hot, also the potatoes, 
and it must be done quickly. They will be very light, and will 
have the appearance of macaroni in the dish. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell them, and drop into boiling water for half an hour. If not 
very young, a little soda, the size of a pea will improve the color, 
and make them tender. Dress them with butter, salt, and pepper. 



VEGETABLES. 29 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Take equal quantities of milk, and water, and when it boils, put 
in the cauliflowers, and boil until tender. Pour drawn butter 
over them, and send to table hot. Broccoli is cooked in the same 
way. 

SQUASHES. 

Cut them up, and remove the seeds, cook in hot water until tender. 
Then wash and dress with butter, salt and pepper. They are nice 
cut in thick slices, and fried as egg-plant. 

WINTER SQUASH. 

Cut the ends off, take out the seeds, cut in long strips, and set in 
the oven to bake until tender. Then send to the table in the skin 
in which they are baked. They are nearly equal to sweet potatoes. 

PARSraPS. 

Scrape, and split them, and put into a pot of boiling water until 
tender. Dress with plenty of butter, salt and pepper. Or you 
may parboil them, mash, make into little cakes, dip them into 
beaten egg, and grated crackers, and fry in hot lard. 

TURNIPS 
Are boiled until tender, then mashed, and dressed like parsnips. 

LETTUCE. 

Make a dressing, either the mayonnaise or chicken salad dressing, 
put the mixture in the bottom of your salad bowl, and lay the 
lettuce, nicely arranged upon it. (It must be previously picked, 
and washed well.) When you serve at table, cut up the salad, and 
mix with a spoon, and fork the dressing before helping it. 

BOILED HOMINY. 
Wash it well, and put it in your vessel on the stove, in sufficient 



30 THE housekeeper's friend. 

cold water to cover it ; it must boil constantly for three or four 
hours, and as the water boils away, have your tea-kettle on the 
stove boiling, and fill up from it. It will be dark if you allow it 
to stop boiling, or if you do not always fill up with boiling water. 
Season with butter, salt, and cream. 

FRIED HOMINY. 

Take cold boiled hominy, mash it up as well as you can, beat up 
one or two eggs, (according to the quantity of hominy you have,) 
stir them in, also a little flour, salt, and a very little butter, make 
into cakes, and fry in hot lard. This is a very nice dish for break- 
fast, 

SMALL HOMINY, OR SAMP. 

Put it on in boiling water, and let boil until it is thick, stirring 
frequently, just before taking up put in some salt. This is a very 
nice breakfast dish, eaten either with sugar and cream, or butter 
and cream as you prefer. If any is left over set it away, and fry 
the next morning as you would corn meal mush. 

TO BOIL RICE. 

Pick and wash a teacupful of rice, and put it in a rice kettle, 
with a pint of cold water ; cover close, and let it boil until done. 
Let it steam a few minutes after it is tender, so that every grain 
will stand alone. It will cook in twenty minutes over a bright 
fire. 

FRIED APPLES. 

Take apples that are not very sour, wash, quarter and core them, 
(but do not peel,) put them into a frying-pan with a piece of but- 
ter size of an egg, and about one tea-cup of sugar. Cover them 
with a plate, and let them fry slowly, stirring occasionally until 
done. 

MACARONI, WITHOUT CHEESE. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Put it on in a little water. Let it come to a hard boil, then 
drain off the water. Put it on again with milk, and a large lump 



VEGETABLES. 31 

of butter. Boil until quite tender, and while hot mix in a little 
cream, and add some sugar, nutmeg or cinnamon, or you may omit 
them. 

SAVORY CABBAGE. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Cook them until they are about half done in water ; then pour 
that water off, and put them in again with about half milk and 
water until done. Cooked in this way they are almost as nice as 
. cauliflower. Dress them as you would cauliflower. Any strong 
vegetable like turnips, cabbage, etc., are better for changing the 
water when half done. 

A GOOD WAY TO COOK ONIONS. 

Boil them first in milk and water ; this diminishes the strong 
taste, then chop them up and put them into a stew-pan with a little 
milk, butter, salt and pepper, and let them stew about fifteen min- 
utes. This gives them a fine flavor, and they can be served up very 
hot. 

Any vegetable is improved by being boiled in water to which a 
little salt has been added, it makes them much more tender. 

Onions are probably more improved by being cooked in salt water 
than any other vegetable. Much of their unpleasant smell is taken 
away, and a peculiar sweetness, and improved aroma is decidedly 
apparent. 



PICKLES AND CATSUP, 



ROUGH AND READY PICIOLES. 

MRS. HEREON, CINCINNATI. 

Slice six dozen cucumbers, and one-half peck green tomatoes, 
one dozen green bull-nose peppers, one ounce white silver onions. 
Salt separately, let stand over night. Next morning press per- 
fectly dry, and mix all together, having chopped the onions and 



32 THE housekeeper's friend. 

peppers fine, put in one-half tea-cup ground black pepper, one-half 
cup allspice, one-half pound white mustard seed, one ounce celery- 
seed, horse-radish and a few cloves. Cover well with good vinegar, 
and let come to a boil. For every gallon of mixture add a half 
pound brown sugar. 

PICKLES. (No. 1.) 

An excellent way to put up pickles that will keep a year or more : 
Drop them into boiling hot water, but not boil them ; let them 
remain ten minutes, wipe them dry, and drop into cold, spiced vine- 
gar, and they will not need to be put into salt and water. The 
above is a rule which has been thoroughly tested, and has found to 
be a most excellent one. 

PICKLES. (No. 2.) 

MRS. H. STURGES. 

To one hundred cucumbers, one pint of salt. Pour boiling water 
on them, and let them stand twenty-four hours, wash in hot water. 
Put them in jars with spices and pour over them boiling vinegar. . 

PICKLES. (No. 3.) 

Lay cucumbers in salt one week. Then put them in cold water 
until they are the proper freshness, (taste them.) Pour boiling 
vinegar over them ; putting in the vinegar, cinnamon or cloves, and 
a small piece of alum. 

RED CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER. 

Slice into a colander your cabbage and cauliflower, sprinkle each 
layer with salt, let it drain two days, then put it into a jar with 
boiling vinegar, enough to cover it, or a few slices of beet-root 
may be added. Select the purple red cabbage. Those who like 
spices will boil pepper, corn, mustard seed, and any other 
whole spices with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches and 
thrown in after being salted will be a beautiful red. 



VEGETABLES. 33 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

MRS. WILLS. 

One peck green tomatoes sliced, one dozen onions sliced, sprinkle 
with salt, and let them stand until the following day, then drain 
them well. One box mustard (prepared), one and a half ounces 
black pepper (whole), one ounce cloves, one ounce yellow mustard 
seed, one ounce allspice. Put in a kettle layers of tomatoes, 
onions and spices until it is all in, then cover completely with vin- 
egar. Let the whole boil (after it commences to boil) twenty min- 
utes or a half hour. This is a splendid piekle. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. (Extra Nice.) 

MES. HEREON, CINCINNATI. 

Make a strong brine of salt and water, put your cucumbers into 
it fresh, let them remain in it for nine days, pouring it off, and 
scalding it every second day, pouring it on the cucumbers boiling. 
When this is done take some vinegar, (if it is very strong two- 
thirds vinegar, and one-third water,) heat it boiling hot, pour 
over your pickles, having first covered them with cabbage or vine 
leaves, and let them stand twenty-four hours. Then take cider 
vinegar of the first quality, sweeten with brown sugar to taste ; say 
one and a half pounds to two gallons of vinegar. Have ready 
allspice, sticks of cinnamon, black pepper, (whole,) mustard seed, 
caraway seed, celery seed, and race ginger. Put these all into the 
vinegar while heating. Pour off the vinegar which you put on 
first, and pour on this last preparation. Tie up securely so as to 
exclude the air. 

This same process is used for mangoes ; by no means omit the 
caraway seed and celery seed, also add horse-radish in slices. I 
often use cucumbers for making mangoes ; take the inside out with 
a knife, and stuff as you would mangoes, and tie up. 

STUFFING FOR CUCUMBER MANGOES. 

MES. HERRON, CINCINNATI. 

Wash a pound of white race ginger very clean, pour boiling 
water on it, and let stand twenty-four hours ; slice it thin, and dry 
5 



34 THE housekeeper's friend. 

it, one pound of horse-radish dried and scraped, one pound mustard- 
seed, one pound chopped onion, one ounce mace, one nutmeg 
pounded fine, two ounces of tumeric, and a handful of whole black 
pepper. Make these ingredients into a paste with a quarter pound 
of mustard, and a large cup of olive oil, put a clove of garlic into 
each mango. This is sufficient stuffing for forty cucumbers. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. DTE. 

To one gallon of strained tomato pulp, take four tablespoonfuls 
of salt, four of black pepper, two of allspice, two pods of red 
peppers. Boil all together until it is quite thick ; add a very small 
quantity of vinegar and sugar. One onion to a gallon of juice is 
an improvement. Put the ground spice in muslin bags, or it will 
make the catsup very dark. 

TOMATO CATSUP. (Splendid.) 

MRS. WALTER DUN. 

Boil one bushel tomatoes until tender, rub them through a colan- 
der, add two quarts cider vinegar, one and a quarter pounds salt, 
one quarter pound black pepper, two ounces cayenne pepper, three 
grated nutmegs, one quarter pound allspice, six onions, three pounds 
brown sugar. Boil down, and when cold strain through a sieve to 
remove the onion, then bottle. This receipt I use constantly, and 
thick it cannot be excelled. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

MRS. STANTON. 

To make one gallon, take one gallon of green tomatoes, one 
dozen large onions, one dozen green peppers (seeds taken out), all 
kinds of spices to suit the taste, one large cup of ground mustard, 
one cup half full of good olive oil, two tablespoonfuls of salt 
(more if your taste requires). Cover the whole with strong vine- 
gar, and boil about one hour. Put away in small jars, paste paper 
over them to exclude the air, 



VEGETABLES. 36 

CHOW-CHOW. • 

Chop fine two quarts of greeu tomatoes, two quarts of white 
onions, one dozen green peppers, one dozen green cucumbers, one 
large head of cabbage. Season with mustard and celery seeds to 
suit the taste. Cover with the best cider vinegar. Boil two hours 
slowly, stiring continually. As soon as you take it from the stove, 
add two tablespoon fuls of salad oil. Cover tight and keep in a 
cool place. 

MIXED PICKLE. 

MRS. HERRON, CINCINNATI. 

One head cabbage, two dozen large sized cucumbers, one dozen 
good sized greeu tomatoes, one-half dozen white onions, three green 
peppers. Slice the onions, pour boiling water on them, and let 
them stand fifteen minutes, chop the other ingredients, and mix all 
together ; sprinkle with salt in layers, and let stand one hour, drain 
and cover with vinegar for twenty-four hours. Then take fresh 
vinegar, and to every gallon of pickle, after draining, put two 
ounces of cloves, two ounces of mustard seed, black pepper, mace, 
celery seed and horse-radish as much as you think fit. Boil all 
together fifteen or twenty minutes, and bottle tight. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

MRS. HERRON. 

Two dozen silver onions, four small red peppers, twelve ripe 
tomatoes, peeled, chopped fine, and put together with two table- 
spoonfuls of brown sugar, two and a half quarts of cider vinegar, 
or one and a half wine vinegar, and one quart of water. Salt to 
taste. Stew gently for four or five hours, until all is soft, and 
beginning to thicken. Seal hot. 

SPICED PEACHES AND PLUMS. 

* MISS JENNY HERRON. 

One peck of peaches pared, three pints of vinegar, three and a 
half pounds of sugar, three nutmegs grated or broken up, one 



S6 

ounce cloves, one ounce cinnamon. Pare the peaches, place them 
in a jar, and stew the spice through them, or tie up in bags. Boil 
the sugar and viuegar together a few minutes, and pour hot over 
the peaches. Eepeat this process for three consecutive days, the 
fourth day put the peaches in, and boil all together for ten minutes. 
Use the same rule for plums, but do not take quite so much vine- 
gar. ■ 

PEACH MANGOES. 

MTSS JENNY HERRON. 

One peck of peaches two-thirds ripe, throw into strong salt, and 
water for twelve hours. Wipe dry, cut in half, take out the stone, 
and make the filling as follows : One-quarter pound white mustard- 
seed, one-quarter pound black-mustard seed, one pound brown 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of tumeric, one tablespoonful cloves 
(ground), four tablespoonfuls sweet oil, one tablespoonful celery- 
seed, two onions chopped fine, two red peppers chopped fine. This 
makes enough for two dozen more peaches than the above. Sew 
up, and leave in vinegar containing one pound brown sugar to the 
gallon, three or four red peppers, a little scraped horse-radish, and 
some bruised ginger-root. 

SPICED GOOSEBERRIES. 

To two gallons of fruit add nine pounds of sugar. Boil together 
until soft, and add one pint of good vinegar, allspice, cloves and 
cinnamon to your taste. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

MRS. E. H, BUCKINGHAM. 

One-half bushels of green tomatoes, one dozen onions, one dozen 
green peppers chopped fine ; sprinkle over the mass a pint of salt, 
let it stand over night, then drain off the brine ; cover it with good 
vinegar, let it cook one hour slowly, then drain and pack in a jar ; 
take two pounds of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, same of 
allspice, one each of cloves and pepper, one-half cup of ground 
mustard, one pint of horse-radish, and vinegar enough to mix thin. 



Vegetable^. 37 

When boiling hot pour over the pickle packed in the jar, and cover 
tight. Then it is ready for use, and will keep for months. 

ONION PICKLES. 

Peel one-half gallon silver onions, put into strong brine for three 
days ; take out and simmer in milk and water for a short time, then 
take out and dry ; put them in a jar, and pour hot vinegar over 
them flavored with mace. 

MANGOES. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLICOTHE, 

Put melons in brine for two weeks, then soak in clear water over 
night, simmer one day in vinegar, slit, take the seeds out, and fill 
with the following : Cut cabbage fine, and salt over night, squeeze 
out the water, and add one pint of grated horse-radish, one-half 
pint of mustard seed, (brown and white,) three cloves of garlic, one 
pound of brown sugar, one-quarter of a pint of olive oil, cloves, 
mace, ginger and allspice, (use the best cider vinegar). Put one 
small pepper in each melon, when filled sew them up, pour boiling 
vinegar (with a little sugar in it) over them„and tie up tight. Best 
when one year old. 

WHITE WALNUTS. 

Take them when so soft a pin will run through easily. Boil salt 
and water strong enough to bear an egg, skim it, and when cold 
pour over the walnuts. Let them stand in this brine fourteen 
days, and then throw them into cold water for two days. Boil 
them in weak vinegar, and let them lie in this a week. Simmer 
enough strong vinegar to cover them. Mix together grated horse- 
radish, cloves, mustard-seed, and red pepper. Put the walnuts into 
the jar in alternate layers with the condiments, and pour the scald- 
ing vinegar over them. 

EAST INDIA PICKLE. 

MRS. J. QUETTING, BROOKLYN. 

One-half peck of green tomatoes, one-half peck of sliced ripe 
tomatoes, two heads of cauliflower, one peck of small cucumbers ; 



§8 1:hE HOllSfeKi^EPER's FRlUNi). 

salt this and let it stand twenty-four hours, then drain and freshen 
a little, add a handful of scraped horse-radish, three heads of 
celery, one-half ounce of turmeric, one-half ounce of cloves, one- 
eighth of a pound of ground pepper, one-half pound of white 
mustard-seed, one-half pound of flour of mustard, one-eighth of a 
pound of sugar, one-half ounce of cinnamon ; put in a kettle with 
cold vinegar, let it boil fifteen minutes, (watch carefully as it burns 
easily,) pour it on hot. Mix the turmeric, one-half a tea-cup of 
flour and mustard together in a paste with cold vinegar, and stir in 
when boiling, to thicken. 

WATERMELON SWEET PICKLES. 

Two pounds of watermelon, or muskmelon rinds, boiled in pure 
water until tender. Drain them well. Then make a syrup of two 
pounds of sugar, one quart of vinegar, half an ounce of mace, an 
ounce of cinnamon, and some roots of ginger, boiled until thick, 
and pour over the melons boiling hot. Drain oflT the syrup, heat 
it until boiling hot, and pour over the melons three days in succes- 
sion. They are very nice, and will keep two years. 

HIGDON PICKLE. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One gallon of vinegar, one pound sugar, one head of cabbage, 
one-half pint of horse-radish cut fine, one-half dozen large onions, 
eight spoonfuls of yellow mustard-seed, four spoonfuls of brown 
mustard-seed, six ounces of ground black pepper, three ounces of 
ground mustard, three ounces of ginger, cinnamon, mace, race 
ginger, and cloves enough when pulverized to make four spoonfuls, 
celery seed to taste, one pint green radish pods, one-half pint 
radish seeds, as many green tomatoes as the vinegar will cover ; 
the tomatoes must be sliced, salted and squeezed dry. The sugar 
and vinegar must be boiled, the onions sliced, and all put into a 
kettle with the boiling vinegar until well heated. Keep in a stone 
jar covered tight. 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 



BREAD AND BISCUITS. 



YEAST. (Very Fine.) 

Boil five or six pared potatoes ; when soft, mash them in the 
boiJing water over the fire. Put in a half teacupful of dried hops, 
and let them boil ten minutes (not longer,) and then strain through 
a colander. Put in a pinch of salt, and stir well ; thin it with milk- 
warm water until the consistency of thin wafile batter. When 
luke-warm stir in a teacupful of liquid yeast. Set it near the back 
part of the stove, or in a tolerably warm place to rise, and in twelve 
or fourteen hours it will be light. If not, put in a little more 
yeast. If the weather is warm it will not require to be placed near 
the stove. If you wish dry yeast, rub in sifted corn meal until it 
is a dry dough, and spread thin on dishes or waiters to dry in the 
air, but not in the sun. 

YEAST. (Splendid.) 

MRS. E. E. FILLMORE. 

Boil in one gallon of water a small handful of hops, and three 
or four potatoes. Put in^o a jar flour suflacient to make a thin 
batter, with one cup of sugar, one cup of ginger, one cup of salt ; 
on this pour through a colander the boiling yeast water and pota- 
toes. When sufficiently cool, add yeast to raise, and jug for use. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

MRS. HOGE. 

Take ypur dough, (judge of the quantity by size of your family,) 
work in a heaping tablespoonful of lard or butter, and let stand in 
a tolerably cool place for four hours, then knead again, and let 
alone for three hours more, make into rolls by rolling out very 
lightly pieces of the dough into round cakes, and folding over not 



40 THE housekeeper's friend. 

quite in the center, then let them rise the third time one hour, bake 
a half hour or less if the oven is hot. 



RAISED BISCUIT. 

MRS. HOGE. 

One quart of milk, three-quarters cup of lard, or butter, (half 
and half will do,) three-quarters of a cup of yeast, two of sugar, 
(if liked,) one teaspoonful of salt, flour suflficient for a soft dough. 
Mix over night, warm the milk, and melt the lard, or butter in it. 
In the morning roll out into a sheet three-quarters of an inch thick, 
and cut into round cakes, let them rise twenty minutes, and bake 
about twenty minutes. 

BISCUIT. 

Three pints of flour, three teaspoonfuls of salt, three teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one large spoonful of lard, one pint of sweet 
milk. If you wish to use sour milk use soda instead of baking 
powder. Handle as little as possible, roll thin, cut with a cutter, 
and bake, 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

One quart of sifted flour, one tablespoonful of lard. Mix to a 
stifl* dough with cold water, beat half an hour, and make out in 
small cakes, with the fingers press flat, and bake in a quick oven. 
Add a little salt to the flour. 



MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLIOOTHE. 

Three pints of flour, three teaspoonfuls of salt, six ounces of lard, 
rubbed through the flour, two-thirds of a pint of cold water. 
Knead or pound until the dough blisters, mould into small biscuits 
with the hand, and bake immediately. 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 41 

CREAM BISCUIT. 

One pint of sour cream, to which add, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in a little warm water, a pinch of salt, add flour sufficient 
to roll and cut. 

SPONGE BISCUIT. 

One quart of milk warmed, with four teaspoonfuls of lard. 
"When warm add two teaspoonfuls of salt, one tea-cup of yeast and 
enough flour to make a stiff batter. When very light, drop in 
spoonfuls on a sheet iron pan, and bake in a quick oven. 

BREAD. 

MRS. NYE. 

Six potatoes boiled quickly, and mashed fine, one pint of flour, 
mixed with them, and three pints of potato water. When about 
lukewarm add one quart of yeast. Cover closely and set to rise. 
When light enough add seven quarts of flour, and knead well. 
Cover closely to exclude the air, let it rise until it cracks, work into 
loaves, put them into the pans to rise again, and then bake three- 
quarters of an hour. This makes eight loaves. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLICOTHE. 

Take two quarts of wheat flour, make a hole in the center, put in 
a piece of butter size of an egg, a little salt, one tablespoonful of 
white sugar ; pour over this a pint of milk previously boiled, and 
allowed to cool, and one-half a tea-cup of yeast. When the sponge 
is light mould fifteen minutes and let it rise again ; then cut into 
round cakes ; when light flatten with the rolling pin, put a small 
piece of butter on each, and fold them in the middle. Put in pans 
to rise, and bake in a quick oven. 

PUFFS, OR POP-OVERS. 

MRS. NYE. 

One pint sour cream^ one pint of flour, three or four eggs beaten 
separately, one tea-spoon of soda (not full) mixed in the flour, 
and a little salt. Bake in muffin tins. Nice for tea. 
6 



42 THE housekeeper's friend. 

POCKET ROLLS. 

MRS. NYE. 

To one pint of sponge, add one quarter of a pint each of butter 
and lard, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, seven pints of flour, knead 
well. . Let it rise, then roll out, cut with a biscuit cutter, dip each 
piece in melted butter, double it over, and place in the pans to rise. 
Let them rise two hours before you wish them baked. Should the 
dough rise too rapidly work it down to prevent its falling. This 
may be done several times. 

INDIAN MEAL ROLLS. 

MISS BARROWS. 

One large cup of flower, two large cups of meal, from a table- 
spoon to a half cup of sugar, according to taste, a pinch of salt, 
two eggs, one pint of sour milk, and one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in a half cup of hot or cold water. If you do not use sour 
milk, wet it up with water using soda and cream of tartar, as you 
would make up sweet milk muffins. 

BROWN FLOUR ROLLS. 

MISS BARROWS. 

Same as the above, only using brown flour instead of meal. 
SODA BISCUIT. (No. 1.) 

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter, and one 
of soda, one tablespoonful of shortening ; mix up with sour milk, 
put the cream of tarter, and soda in the flour, and run through the 
sieve twice. 

SODA BISCUIT. (No. 2.) 

Sift two teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter in with one quart of 
flour, rub in a piece of butter size of an egg. Dissolve one tea- 
spoonful of soda in two-thirds of a pint of sweet milk or warm 
water, and mix into the flour quickly. Knead the dough only 
what is necessary to bring it together, and get it ready for the oven 
as quickly as possible, and bake immediately. 



Bread and BisctriT. 48 

INDIAN CORN BISCUIT. 

One quart of corn meal, one pint of wheat flour, sifted together, 
and stirred into three pints of milk; add a teaspoonful of salt! 
Beat four eggs, the yolks and whites separately. First stir the 
yolks into the batter ; then add the whites, and a small teaspoonful 
of soda the last thing. Have ready buttered some small pans, 
nearly fill them with the batter, and set into the hot oven immedi- 
ately. Bake quickly, and turn from the pans as soon as done, and 
serve at once. They should puff up so as to more than fiU the pans. 

RUSK. 

MRS. M. A. HOGE. 

One pint of warm milk, one-half cup of butter, one of sugar, 
two eggs, one teaspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls of yeast. Make 
a sponge with the milk, yeast and flour for a thin batter. In the 
morning add the butter, sugar and eggs beaten well together ; add 
flour sufficient to make a soft dough. Mould into rolls, and let rise 
until very light. 

BREAD CAKES. 

Take dry bread, pour over it boiling water, and cover for a few 
minutes, then mash fine. Add one pint of butter-milk, a small tea- 
spoonful of saleratus, four eggs, beaten separately, a little salt, and 
flour enough to bake well. Bake on a griddle. 

MUFFINS. (No. 1.) 
One pint of flour, two well beaten eggs, one teaspoonful of butter, 
two tablespoonfuls of yeast, and what sweet milk it will take to 
make them a little thicker than griddle cakes. Mix them over 
night, and bake them on buttered griddle in muffin rings. 

MUFFINS. (No. 2.) 
Take one pint of milk, four eggs (beaten light), a tea-cup of 
home-made yeast, a few grated bread-crumbs, and one quart of 
flour. Beat them into a smooth batter, and let them stand three, 
or four hours to rise. Bake them in rings, which must be well 
buttered, 



44 

RICE AND FLOUR MUFFINS. 

Half a tea-cup of flour, one tea-cup of boiled rice, one pint and 
a half of milk, and three eggs (beaten separately.) The batter 
must be as thin as for griddle cakes. Bake with a quick heat in 
muffin rings or gem pans. 

CORN MUFFINS. 

MRS. 8TURGES. 

Three cups corn meal, one-half cup wheat flour, three eggs, beaten 
separately, two spoonfuls of butter, one teaspoonful of soda, a 
little salt, and one pint sweet milk. 

SALLY LUNN. 

One quart of flour, four eggs, one-half cup of butter melted in 
one cup of milk, one cup warm water, four tablespoonfuls yeast, 
one teaspoonful of salt, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in 
hot water. Beat the eggs light (separately) add the milk, water, 
butter, soda and salt. Stir in the flour and yeast, beat well. Set 
to rise in buttered pans, let stand six hours, and bake three-quar- 
ters of an hour in a moderate oven. 

SALLY LUNN. (Very Fine.) 

Three eggs beaten separately very light, one pint of milk warmed, 
half a tea-cup of butter melted, half a tea-cup of yeast, two pints 
of flour, and a teaspoonful and a half of salt. Beat well and pour 
into a buttered pan in which it is to be baked, and when light bake 
with a quick heat. You can add to this a tea-cup of sugar if 
desired. 

WAFFLES. Very Fine. 

One pint sweet milk, half a tea-cup of butter-milk or clabber, 
two eggs (beaten separately), one pint and a half of flour, and a 
piece of lard size of a small egg melted, and put in the batter. 
Beat well for fifteen minutes. Grease the waffle irons, fill them with 
the batter, and bake quickly, turning the irons so that both sides 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 45 

will be browned. If you have no sweet milk it will do to make 
them entirely of sour or buttermilk. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

One and a half tea-cups of boiled rice, warm it with a pint of 
milk. Mix it smooth, then take it from the fire, stir in a pint of 
cold milk, and a teaspoonful of salt, beat four eggs very light, and 
stir in with flour for a stiff batter. 

DROP CAKES. 

One coffee-cup of corn meal scalded with either milk or water, 
add a little salt, and one egg beaten light. Drop into hot lard, 
and fry until done. These are very nice for breakfast. I often 
make them in this way, and drop on the griddle. 

CORN MEAL BATTER CAKES. 

Pour boiling milk over sifted corn meal and beat until lukewarm. 
Then add a little salt, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and three eggs 
well beaten. Bake on a griddle. The milk and meal must be in 
such proportion as will make a thin batter ; say a pint of meal to a 
quart of boiled milk. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint of milk, two eggs beaten light, a tablespoonful of melted 
butter, a little salt, one teaspoonful of cream of tarter, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda, enough meal to make a thin batter. 

Or, four eggs beaten separately, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, ®ne 
pint of milk, two coffee-cups of Indian meal, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two of cream of tarter, small piece of butter, and one cup of 
cream. 

CORN CAKES. 

One pint cold mush, one-half tea- cup of flour, rubbed well into 
the mush, with one tablespoonful of lard, from one to three eggs. 
If the mush is too stiff use water to thin it. Bake rapidly on a 
griddle. 



46 TSE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIENl>. 

CREAM CAKES. 

One quart of sour cream, four eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one teaspoonful of salt, flour sufficient for a stiff batter. Bake in 
muffin rings. 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

One coffee-cup of sour milk, two eggs beaten separately, and very- 
light, flour sufficient to make a good batter ; just before baking add 
one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water, also a little salt, 
add the whites of the eggs last. Bake on a hot griddle. 

BROWN FLOUR MUSH. 

Put two pints of boiling water in a kettle on the stove. Mix up 
a little of the brown meal in cold water as thick as you would to 
make starch ; then pour it into the boiling water, stir in dry meal 
until you have it about as thick as for ordinary mush. Then thin 
it again with boiling water, until about the consistency of starch, 
or as it was at the start, just let it come to a boil again, and pour 
into moulds, and eat as you would cracked wheat. 

GEMS. 

Into cold water stir Graham flour sufficient to make a batter a 
trifle thicker than that used for ordinary griddle cakes. Bake 
from one-half to three-quarters of an hour in a hot oven in small 
tin patty-pans two inches square and three-fourths of an inch deep. 

DIAMONDS. 

Pour boiling water on Graham flour, stirring rapidly until all 
the flour is wet. Too much stirring makes it tough. It should be 
about as thick as can be stirred easily with a strong iron spoon. 
Place the dough with plenty of flour upon a moulding board, and 
knead it for two or three minutes. Roll out one-half an inch thick 
and cut in small cakes or rolls. If a large quantity is required, 
roll about three-fourths of an inch and cut with a knife in diamond 
shape. Bake in a very hot oven forty-five minutes. 



BREAD AND BISCUIT. 47 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. 

Make some Graham mush (as above). When cool mix with it 
Graham flour sufficient to roll well. Knead for a few minutes, roll 
three-fourths of an inch thick, cut with a common biscuit cutter, 
and bake in a hot oven from thirty to forty -five minutes. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Take two and a half pounds of Graham flour, add one pound of 
brown sugar, a little salt, half tea-cup of home-made yeast, and one 
quart of warm water. Mix them all together with a pudding stick. 
Let it rise like wheat bread ; but it must not be kneaded. Grease 
the tins, and bake in a moderate oven. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

♦ MRS. E. BUCKINGHAM. 

Two cups of corn meal, two cups of Graham flour, one cup of 
wheat flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, 
one and a half pints of sweet milk, beat well and pour into a tin 
mould with a close lid ; boil in a kettle of water from three to four 
hours, be sure that the water boils all the time, and keep it filled 
up as high as the bread is in the vessel. Always fill up with boil- 
ing water. When sufficiently done take out of the mould, and set 
in a hot oven for ten minutes. 

GRAHAM CUP CAKES. 

One and a half pints of Graham flour, one-half pint of wheat 
flour, four eggs, one-half pint of milk, one-quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of salt, one of sugar. Bake three- 
quarters of an hQur. 

ANOTHER OP SAME. 

MISS BARROWS. 

One cup of milk to one cup of Graham flour, a little salt ; beat 
a great deal until very light. Bake in gem cups. 



48 THE housekeeper's friend. 



PIES, PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS. 



PUFF PASTE. 

MRS. E. BUCKINGHAM. 

One pound of flour, break into it one egg, add a piece of butter 
size of an egg, and a teaspoonful of salt. Mix with cold water, 
and work until it is a smooth paste. Divide one pound of butter 
into six parts, roll the paste one-half inch thick, and spread one 
part of butter on, fold up, roll out again, spread on' another part, 
and so on until the six parts are all used. Some persons use lard 
instead of butter ; it makes very nice paste, but not quite as light, 
or so finely flavored as butter. 

LEMON PIE. 

MRS. M. A. HOGE. 

Three eggs, three cups of sugar, two lemons, three tablespoonfuls 
of corn starch. Place on the stove a pint and a half of water, 
when it boils, stir the starch into it, then a piece of butter size of an 
egg. Beat the yolks and sugar well together, and when the starch 
water is cool, stir in the sugar and egg, then squeeze the juice of 
the lemon, and grate the peel in (not quite all,) and lastly add the 
whites beaten light. This is a delicious lemon pie — sufficient to 
make three. 

LEMON PIE. (No. 2.) 

MRS. HERRON. 

One tea-cup of cold water, two tablespoonfuls flour, mixed smooth 
in water, two tea-cups of sugar, three eggs beaten separately, the 
whites added just as the mixture goes into the oven, juice and rind 
of one lemon. This will make two pies. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 49 

MINCE MEAT. (Extra.) 

MRS. GRANT, PHILADELPHIA. 

Five pounds of beef, two and a half of suet, five pounds of raisins, 
three pounds of currants, six pounds of chopped apples, one pound 
of citron, two and a half of sugar, four lemons, (juice and rind,) 
four oranges, one pint rose water, three nutmegs, two tablespoonfuls 
of ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, one pint of wine, 
one pint of brandy. Add stewed apples and cider before baking. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Boil four pounds of beef and chop fine. Pick and chop three 
pounds of suet, wash two pounds of currants, and stone one pound of 
raising, grate the peel of two lemons, and add the juice, an ounce of 
sliced citron, and twelve large apples chopped fine. Mix these ingre- 
dients with three pounds of sugar, half a pint of wine, and the same 
of brandy or cider, add nutmeg and mace to your taste. Bake 
this in puff* paste with a lid on top. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Take about one quart of stewed apples, one-half pound of sugar, 
small piece of butter ; run through the colander. Then add the 
yolks of six eggs (well beaten), a little cinnamon and nutmeg. 

POTATO PIE. 

Boil one pound of potatoes, peel them, mash them through a col- 
ander. Stir to a cream three-quarters of a pound of sugar, and three- 
quarters of .a pound of butter, add to this gradually a glass of 
wine, and one of brandy, a teaspoonful of powdered mace and cin- 
namon, one grated nutmeg, the juice and grated peel of one large 
lemon. Then beat six eggs very light, and add them by degrees to 
the mixture alternately with the potato. 



50 THE housekeeper's friend. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLIOOTHE. 

One quart of stewed and strained pumpkin, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one-quarter of a pound of butter, one pint of sugar, yolks of 
four eggs, one gill of rose water, one-half grated nutmeg, three 
tablespooufuls of cinnamon, and one pint of milk. Lastly add the 
whites of the eggs well beaten. Line your pans with a nice crust, 
and fill with the above, using no top crust. Potato pie may be 
made as above, substituting potatoes (either sweet or Irish) instead 
of the pumpkin. 

COOOANUT PIE. 

MRS. NYE, CHILLICOTHE, 

Soak two cups of dessicated cocoanut in one pint of milk, beat 
together the yolks of four eggs, and one-half cup of sugar, butter 
the size of an egg, and half grated nutmeg. Mix all well together 
and put it in to your crust, use no top crust, but beat the whites of the 
eggs with some sugar, and spread over the top. 



COOOANUT PIE. 

MRS. HERRON. 

The weight of one cocoanut in sugar, one-half the weight in but- 
ter, five eggs, the milk of the nut and one pint of milk, grated peel 
and juice of one lemon. Beat the eggs and sugar together, add 
the milk, and melt the butter and put in. This will make four 
pies. 

MARLBOROUGH PIE OR PUDDING. 

MRS. ADAMS. 

One quart of apples after cooking, run through the colander. 
Take twelve eggs beat separately very light, one-quarter of a pound 
of butter, six spoonfuls of sugar, one nutmeg, one lemon, grate the 
rind and add the juice. 



PIES, PtJDDINGS, ETC. 51 

DAUPHINES. 

Line a pudding- dish with puff-paste, and put into it a thin layer 
of sweetmeats or stewed apples. Boil a custard of a pint of milk, 
three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and one of flour until it 
thickens; flavor with vanilla, and pour over the fruit. Bake in a 
moderate oven, and when it is cold make an icing of whites of 
eggs and sugar, and pour over the top, set it in a moderately heated 
oven to dry. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 

MRS. H. STURGE8. 

Boil one quart of milk, remove it from the fire and stir in one 
cup of corn meal, and one of molasses; then put it on the fire 
again, and stir until it boils ; add four eggs well beaten, butter the 
size of an egg, a half cup of cold milk, a little salt and ginger, put 
into a pudding-dish, and bake two hours. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

MRS. H. STURGES. 

One pound brown sugar, one-half pound of butter, one pound 
of bread-crumbs, one pound of stoned raisins, one-half pound of 
currants, one-quarter of a pound of citron, eight eggs, two nutmegs. 
Boil six hours or longer. Can keep as you would fruit cake. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

MISS BRADLEY. 

Ten eggs (beaten separately very light), one cup of sugar, one 
lemon. Stir the yolks of the eggs and sugar together very light, 
then grate half of the rind of the lemon, and also the pulp in with 
the sugar and eggs, then beat the whites of the eggs light, and put 
in the other half of the lemon (grated), and mix all together, beat- 
ing very thoroughly. Bake in a pudding-dish about a half hour. ' 

QUEEN OP PUDDINGS. 

MRS. FENNER. 

One pint of bread-crumbs, one quart of milk, one cup of sugar, 



6^ The housekeeper's frienb. 

yolks of four eggs, (well beaten,) butter size of an egg, grated rind 
of one lemon, mix all well together. Put in a pudding-dish, and 
bake until done, but not watery. Whip the whites of the eggs, 
and then beat into them one cup of sugar, in which stir the juice of 
the lemon ; after the pudding has cooled some, spread over the top 
a layer of jelly or preserves of any kind. Pour the whites of the 
eggs on this, and replace in the oven, and bake lightly. Eat with 
cream. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One tea-cup of white sugar, four tablespoonfuls melted butter, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of sweet milk, one pint sifted flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter, and one egg. Beat the sugar, 
and butter to a cream, then add the egg well beaten, then the milk 
with the soda in it, lastly the flour with the cream of tarter in it. 
Bake in a cake-pan, one hour and a half. 

Sauce for the above. — Two tea-cups of sugar, one tea-cup of but- 
ter, one dessertspoon of flour, mixed with a little water, one tea-cup 
of wine added last. 

BROWN BETTY PUDDING. 

Pare and slice a number of apples, butter a dish, and put in a 
layer of apples, and then a layer of bread-crumbs, with sugar, and 
butter, nutmeg, and cinnamon, alternate them until the dish is full. 
If the apples are not tart add lemon juice ; put into the dish a tea- 
cup of water, and bake in a moderate oven until brown (an hour 
is generally sufficient). Serve in the same dish, or turn out on a 
platter, and eat either warm or cold with sauce or cream. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Take a baker's loaf of bread and cut it in slices, spread each 
slice with butter, put it in a pan, and pour a quart of boiling milk 
over it, let it stand over night. In the morning beat seven eggs 
(very light), one-quarter pound sugar, one or two pounds of raisins, 
and spices to the taste, cinnamon, nutmeg and mace. Bake as you 
would pound cake and eat with sauce. I generally use sauce No. 1 
for this. 



PIES, PtTDDlI^GS, ETC. 53 

minute; pudding. 

One cup of flour and one egg, mixed thoroughly together. Place 
on the stove in a kettle, one quart of milk ; sweeten the batter a 
little, and also flavor with vanilla to the taste ; after the milk boils 
pour the mixture in, stirring constantly until it thickens, then turn 
into moulds. Eat with sugar and cream. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Pour a quart of warm milk over eight tablespoonfuls of tapioca 
that has been previously washed through several waters. When it 
is soft, add three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, five well beaten 
eggs, also sugar and spice to the taste. Bake in a buttered dish. 

APPLE WITH TAPIOCA. 

Swell for two hours one large, or two small cups of tapioca, in a 
quart of water, varying the quantity to suit the size of your dish . 
Bake until nearly done as many large pared and cored apples as 
will fill the bottom of a pudding-dish, fill the center where the 
core came out with sugar, and a small piece of butter ; when ten- 
der pour over them the tapioca, and bake a full hour. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

MRS. BUELL. 

Six tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, ten tablespoonfuls of 
grated bread-crumbs, one quart of milk. Boil together to the con- 
sistency of pap ; when cold add one cup of sugar, (brown is the 
best,) and six eggs, leaving out the whites of two. When baked 
sufficiently make an icing of the whites of the two eggs, and six 
tablespoonfuls of sugar and spread over the top, put into the oven 
a few minutes to brown. 

APPLE MERINGUE. 

MRS. BUELL. 

Two cups of apple-sauce, two cups of sugar, juice and peel of 
One lemon, one tablespoonful of flour, yolks of five eggs. Bake it 



54 TttE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

and when done, beat the whites of the eggs with two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and spread over the top. Brown in the oven. 



APPLE MERINGUE. 

Fill a small deep dish half full of stewed apples, or any preserved 
acid fruit, (peaches are very nice,) and pour over an icing of the 
beaten whites of six eggs, and six tablespoonfuls of white sugar. 
Bake slowly in an oven from one to two hours. It can be eaten 
cold or hot. If the apple is stewed, only let it remain in the oven 
long enough to cook, and brown the icing nicely. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half package of gelatine (Cox's) dissolved in cold water, 
one pint of boiling water added, two cups pulverized sugar, juice of 
two lemons, then strain it, add the whites of three eggs, beat all 
very hard for some time until it begins to foam, then put it in 
moulds, and set it on the ice to congeal. Make a custard of one 
pint of milk, yolks of three eggs, sweeten, and flavor with lemon 
to your taste, and pour over the pudding just before it is served. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of suet chopped fine, one cup of milk, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of raisins (stoned and chopped,) one 
teaspoonful of saleratus, and one of salt. Tie in a bag, and boil 
three hours. Eat with wine sauce. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

Eight eggs, one cup of sugar, one-quarter pound butter, one 
pound bread-crumbs, one-half pint of flour, one pound raisins, 
(stoned,) one pound of currants, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
cinnamon and nutmeg to the taste. Beat the eggs separately, and 
add the whites last, also add one-half pint of sweet milk. Put in a 
cloth, and boil four or five hours. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 55 

PLUM PUDDING. (Baked.) 

Into a quart of boiling milk put a sufficient quantity of grated 
bread-crumbs to make a tolerably thick batter. Let it stand until 
lukewarm, when it must be beaten well, and a half pound of butter, 
and the same quantity of sugar be stirred into it. Add eight eggs 
well beaten, half a pound of raisins, stoned, cut and floured, half a 
pound of currants, washed, and dried, and dredged with flour, a 
quarter of a pound of citron, sliced and floured, also a nutmeg ; a 
little brandy or wine may be added if preferred. Beat all well to- 
gether, and pour into a buttered mould or dish, and bake slowly for 
two hours. 

Make a sauce of three beaten eggs, a cup of sugar, and a gill of 
milk seasoned with lemon. Stir over the fire until it becomes as 
thick as cream, but do not let it boil, and add two wineglasses of 
brandy or sherry wine. This pudding may be boiled. Put it in a 
cloth which must be previously scalded and floured, lay it in 
a round-bottomed bowl while the mixture is being put in ; leave 
room for it to swell, and tie up very tightly. Drop into boiling 
water of which there must be enough to cover the pudding well, and 
replenish from the tea-kettle as it evaporates. Turn the pudding 
frequently. When it is done it should be dipped into a pan of cold 
water, to prevent it adhering to the cloth. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

MES. J. QUETTING, BROOKLYN. 

One cup of flour, one cup and a half of bread-crumbs, three 
quarters of a cup of raisins, three-quarters of a cup of currants, 
three-quarters of a cup of suet, one-half cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of sweet milk, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one-half table- 
spoonful of cinnamon, one-half tablespoonful of cloves and a little 
salt. Mix well together, and boil four hours. 

Wine Sauce. — Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one cup of hot water. Brandy to the taste. Beat the whites of the 
eggs to a stiff froth and add last. 



56 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEND. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Take three pints of flour, one and a half cups of shortening, 
(part butter and part lard,) one teaspoonful of salt, one cup of cold 
water ; cream the shortening until very light, drop through the 
flour, add the salt, then sprinkle the water in. Turn out on a 
pastry board, mix it a little with a broad knife, then gently pound 
with a rolling pin until ready to roll out, roll nearly a half inch in 
thickness, cut into long squares, or put in round pie pans, and bake 
quickly. As soon as done split open, butter the inside of both 
pieces, and sugar liberally, then put a layer of berries on the under 
crust and sugar, place the top crust on, and sugar the top well. It 
takes about three pints of berries. 

Berry Syrup for same. — One pint of berries, one-half pint of 
sugar, boil slowly ten minutes, then strain, and set to cool. When 
you serve the cake it is very nice to pour this over it, or you may 
serve with cream, or it is very good without sauce of any kind. 

BEVIVO. A Very Good Substitute for Charlotte Russe. 

One-half box of Cox's gelatine, one pint of boiling water, one 
tea-cup of sugar, flavored with vanilla, three pints of rich cream, 
whipped. Put into a large glass bowl, and serve with cut cake. 

RICE MERINGUE. 

Pick over one tea-cup of rice, wash clean and boil in water until 
it is soft. When done drain all the water from it, let it get cool, 
and then add one quart of new milk, the well beaten yolks of three 
eggs, three tablespoonfuls of white sugar and a litte nutmeg ; pour 
into a baking-dish, and bake half an hour. Let it get cold ; then 
beat the whites stifi", add two great spoonfuls of sugar flavored with 
lemon or vanilla, and spread it over the pudding, and slightly 
brown in the oven. Be careful not to let it scorch. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Half or a third of a box of Cox's gelatine, one- quarter of a cup 
of powdered sugar. Dissolve the gelatine in one-half a pint of milk. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC, 57 

Boil one and a half pints of milk, pour it over the gelatine and 
milk. Beat the yolks of two eggs with a Vup of sugar, flavor to 
the taste, then add to the gelatine and milk. Beat the whites very 
light with a cup of sugar, and the juice of one lemon ; spread it 
over the top of the pudding, and allow it to stand ten minutes in 
the oven. Make the day before you wish to use it. 

BOHEMIAN CREAM. 

Four ounces of any fruit you choose, which has been stoned and 
sweetened. Pass the fruit through a sieve, and add one and a half 
ounces of melted or dissolved isinglass, or gelatine to a half-pint of 
fruit ; mix it well together, then whip one pint of rich cream, and 
add the fruit and gelatine gradually to it. Then pour it all into a 
mould, set it on ice or in a cool place, and when hardened. dip the 
mould a moment in warm water, and turn it out ready for the 
table. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Take a half box of Cox's gelatine, put it in a bowl, and pour 
upon it a half pint of cold water ; after standing about ten minutes 
pour upon it a half a pint of boiling water. While waiting for 
this, break into a bowl the yolks of four eggs, beat them very light, 
then take your gelatine, and put it in a skillet or frying-pan, and 
place on the stove. When you see it beginning to bubble pour, and 
stir in very quickly the egg (at this stage it is very apt to curdle* 
so be particular to stir all the time); when you see it is beginning 
to thicken remove from the fire, and strain into a large bowl 
through a wire strainer ; then season to your taste with sugar and 
vanilla. (Of course you must allow in seasoning for the cream that 
is yet to go in. So make very sweet.) Then set away in a cool 
place, and allow it to congeal. When it becomes firm enough to 
bear the mark of a spoon, (and not until then,) stir in quickly the 
froth of three pints of whipped cream. I usually have my cream 
whipped early in the morning or some time before I am ready to 
use it, and then there is no detention ; as you whip it and the froth 
rises to the top, skim it off with a spoon, and put on platters. This 
8 



58 THE housekeeper's friend. 

will make sufficient to fill four or five good sized moulds. Instead 
of moulds you may take a large, round sponge-cake, turn it bottom 
upwards, and cut oflf a slice an inch thick, then remove the whole 
of the inside, leaving the shell of the cake an inch thick. Pour 
the mixture in this, put on the bottom slice, and set away in a cool 
place until ready to serve. 

OMELET SOUPLEE. 

MISS BARROWS. 

Take six eggs, beat the whites and yolks separately until you are 
worn out, then sweeten and flavor the yolks, mix them with the 
whites and beat until your patience gives out. Bake in a very hot 
oven until it rises very light, and browns nicely. Eat as soon as 
done, with sauce. 

RICE BALLS. 

MISS BARROWS. 

Mould rice while hot into balls, or press it into shape in small 
cups. When cold take out some of the rice from each ball, and 
place instead some tart sweetmeats. Place all the balls in a flat 
glass dish, and pour a custard over them. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Pare and quarter six mellow and tart apples, place them in a pan 
on the stove with a cup of water ; as they soften put them in a 
pudding-dish, and sprinkle sugar over them. Beat eight eggs quite 
light and sweeten with sugar to the taste, then add three pints of 
milk, grate in half of a nutmeg, and turn the whole over the 
apples. Bake about twenty-five minutes. 

FRITTERS. 

Scald one pint of milk, and stir in flour to make a stiflT batter, 
add a little salt. Beat three eggs separately, stir in just before 
frying. Fry in hot lard, if it is not boiling hot the fritter will not 
be light. 



PIES, PUDBINGS, ETC. 59 

POUND PUDDING. 

One pound of white sugar, one-half pound of butter, eight eggs, 
(beaten separately,) one and a quarter pound of flour, and one-half 
teaspoonful of yeast powder or soda. Beat the sugar and butter 
well together, then add the yolks of the eggs, and lastly the whites 
of the eggs and flour. Bake in a cake pan, and serve with sauce. 

BAKED FLOUR PUDDING. 

One and a half pints of butter-milk, one cup of cream, four 
eggs, two spoonfuls of saleratus in the milk, flour sufficient to make 
a batter. If you have no cream take one quart of buttermilk. 
Eat with cream and sugar or some kind of sauce. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Put on to boil in a kettle three pints of milk with some cinna- 
mon sticks broken into it ; then take two eggs to a pint, breaking 
them into a bucket (leaving out about two of the whites to whip up 
and place on top,) beat the eggs up well in the bucket with sugar 
to the taste, and when the milk boils up pour it in with the egg, 
stirring all the while, then put some boiling water into the kettle, 
and place your bucket containing the custard in it, and stir con- 
stantly until it begins to thicken (be careful not to allow it to 
curdle). Then remove it, and place it in a cool place until ready 
to serve. Have a glass bowl in which you have placed some pieces 
of sponge cake, with sherry wine sprinkled over it, then strain 
your custard into this bowl (or you may omit the cake if you wish). 
Then whip up the whites of the egg, with some currant jelly, and 
just before serving, with a spoon pile the egg on the top as high as 
possible. This makes a very pretty dessert. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Three eggs, nine tablespoonfuls of flour, one pint of milk, a 
little salt. Pour the milk scalding hot on the flour, then add the 
yolks of the eggs beaten very light, and lastly the whites. Bake a 
half hour in a pudding-dish or pan. Eat with sugar and cream or 
sauce of some kind. 



60 

OOCOANUT PUDDING. 

MISS ADDIE WILLIAMS. 

Grate the meat of half a cocoanut, stir it into a custard made of 
four eggs to a quart of milk, one tea-cup of sugar. Bake with an 
under-crust in a buttered dish, in a quick oven for thirty or forty 
minutes. To be served with the following sauce. One cup of but- 
ter, one cup of sugar stirred to a cream, then one cup of wine added 
slowly ; set the bowl containing this into a vessel of hot water for 
half an hour, do not stir it. 

ORANGE PIE. 

MISS ADDIE WILLIAMS. 

Three large oranges, eight eggs, two coffee-cups of sugar, two 
cups of cream, one-half cup of butter, three teaspoonfuls of corn 
starch. Bake as you would lemon pie. 



WIGWAM. (A Nice Dessert.) 

MISS COLLIER, PHILADELPHIA. 

One pound of lady-fingers opened and spread on a dish ; cover 
them with currant jelly, and on the jelly spread meringue, then an- 
other layer of lady-fingers, jelly and meringue ; make several layers 
of the cake, jelly and meringue, making each layer a little smaller 
in order to have it pyramidal form ; cover the whole with meringue 
and put it in the oven a few minutes to brown. The meringue is 
made of the whites of eggs with sugar beaten in, but do not make 
it too stiff. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

M^S. NYE. 

Six tablespoonfuls of sugar, two lemons, and six eggs. Beat the 
yolks of the eggs with the sugar, beat the whites to a stiff froth and 
add them, grate in the lemon peel, and squeeze in. the juice, then 
add a small piece of butter, and bake like custard. 



PIES, PUDDINGS, EI*CJ. 61 

AMBROSIA. 

MATTIE NYE. 

Peel and slice thin some oranges, take out the seeds as you slice 
them, sprinkle with sugar and grated cocoanut. Fill a glass bowl 
with the oranges, sugar and cocoanut alternately piling the cocoa- 
nut on top. You may also add pineapple if you wish. 

RICE PUDDING. 

MRS. NYE. 

One cup of rice, and three pints of milk cooked until perfectly 
soft, and stiff. While hot stir in the yolks of four eggs beaten 
light, and grated rind of one lemon. Beat the whites of two eggs 
to a froth with eight tablespoonfuls of white sugar, and juice of a 
lemon. Place this on top of the pudding, and put in the oven to 
brown. 

BOMBAY PUDDING. 

To a good sweet custard, add a little butter, a little nutmeg, and 
a glass of wine. Mix in a grated cocoanut. Line a dish with puff 
paste, and bake a light brown. 

DUTCH BLANO-MANGE. 

MISS M. STILLWELL. 

To one quart of boiling water, one-half box of Cox's gelatine, 
juice of two large lemons, two coffee-cups of sugar. When almost 
cold pour over the beaten yolks of six eggs. 

COCOANUT BLANC-MANGE. 

MATTIE NYE. 

Let one quart of sweet milk come to a boil, then stir in one grated 
cocoanut, and three even tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, mixed with 
enough cold water to soften, and sugar sufficient to sweeten. Let 
this cook three-quarters of an hour stirring occasionally^ then take 



62 THE housekeeper's PRiENt). 

it off the fire, and stir in the beaten whites of four eggs. Pour 
into a mould and when cold serve with cream. 

FRUIT MERINGUE. 

MRS. H. IDE, COLUMBUS. 

Fill a dish with fruit of any kind, (canned peaches are very- 
nice,) sugar well, and then make a meringue of egg and sugar. 
My rule is nine tablespoonfuls of sugar to the white of one egg, 
(of course you must use your own judgment according to the size 
of your dish,) then pour the meringue over the fruit, put it in the 
oven, and bake brown. The meringue should be well baked 
through. Serve with cream, or without anything. 

CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

Stir three or four tablespoonfuls of starch into a pint of boiling 
milk, and when quite thick take it from the fire, and set it aside to 
cool. Then mix with it half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a 
pound of butter, and eight eggs beaten separately and light, and 
beat all well together. Season with essence of lemon, put into a 
pudding-dish, and set in the oven to brown. 

FULLER PUDDING. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One cup of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of butter, one cup of 
water, one teaspoonful of soda, two of ground cloves, one of salt, 
four even cups of flour. Steam three hours. 

Sauce for Same. — One cup of butter, two of sugar, one of wine, 
two eggs. Stir the butter and sugar together, beat the eggs with 
the butter and sugar thoroughly, and steam over boiling water 
until scalding hot. Do not let boil. 

ALMOND CUSTARD. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One pint of new milk, one cup of fine sugar, one-quarter of a 



PIES, PUDDINGS, ETC. 63 

pound of blanched almonds (pounded), two spoonfuls of rose-water, 
the yolks of four eggs, stir this over a slow fire until it is the 
consistency of cream, then remove it quickly, and put it in a pud- 
ding-dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a little 
sugar, and spread on the top. 

SYLLABUB. 

One quart of cream, one gill of wine, the juice of three lemons, 
the beaten whites of six eggs, and sugar to your taste. Froth 
these ingredients with a syllabub-churn, and put "into glasses. Hand 
around with cut cake. 

ICE CREAM. 

MRS. B. WHEELER. 

One gallon of cream, one and a half pounds of sugar, two eggs 
beaten light and mixed with the cream. Strain it and put it in the 
freezer, stir until done. Break the ice fine and sprinkle salt over 
it, filling it tightly around the freezer. 

LEMON ICE. 

MRS. B. WHEELER. 

Eight lemons, two quarts of water, one and a half pounds of 
sugar, whites of four eggs. This will make three quarts to freeze. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

• 

No. 1. — Put into a tin-cup two eggs, and one cup of sugar, beat 
very hard to a stiff froth, have a pan of water boiling on the stove, 
place the tin-cup containing the egg and sugar in it, stirring con- 
stantly until it comes to a boil. Have a piece of butter size of a 
walnut in a tureen, pour the egg over it, and flavor with wine 
(sherry), vanilla or both. This can-be made early in the morning 
as it should be cold when eaten. Stir well before using. This is a 
very nice sauce for plum pudding. 



64 

No. 2. — One-half cup of butter, one cup of sugar, yolk of one 
egg, and a tea-cup of water. Melt the sugar and butter together, 
then add the egg well beaten and water. Cook a few minutes. 
Flavor with wine or vanilla. — Mrs. Adams. 

No. 3.— One-half a pound of sugar, one-half a pound of butter, 
one tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of water. Flavor 
with sherry wine and nutmeg. — Mrs. Woodbridge, Chillicothe. 

No. 4. — One cup of powdered sugar, and one-half a cup of but- 
ter beaten to a cream, the yolk of one egg beaten and added, then 
the white of the egg beaten light and also added ; melt over a pan 
of boiling water, and add a wine-glass of wine. 

No. 5. — Cold Sauce. — Four ounces of butter, six ounces of sugar, 
white of one egg. Beat the butter and sugar together very white, 
then add the egg, beaten light, also a glass of wine and nutmeg. 

No. 6. — Boil half a pint of cream, thicken it with a teaspoonful 
of flour, and put in a large lump of butter. Sweeten to your taste, 
and when cold add wine or brandy. 

No. 7. — Boil some lemon rinds, and a gill of milk together until 
the milk is flavored, then stir in three well beaten eggs, and sweeten 
with sugar to your taste. Stir constantly until it is as thick as thin 
cream, but do not let it boil, and then stir in two wineglassfuls of 
brandy or sherry wine. 

No. 8. — One quart of boiling water, four large tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar, two of flour, one of butter, one teaspoonful of salt ; 
nutmeg or cinnamon to the taste Let the whole boil together for 
ten minutes, and season with vanilla or wine. Mix the flour with 
a little cold water before adding to the boiling water. 

BRANDY SAUCE. (Hard.) 

One-half cup of butter, two cups powdered sugar, one glass of 
wine (sherry) or brandy, nutmeg. Warm the butter very slightly, 
then add the sugar, beat to a cifeam, and then the brandy or wine ; 
shape into a mould and set in a cold place until wanted, then grate 
the nutmeg over it. 



CAKES. 65 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg 
beaten to a froth. When the whole has been beaten together very 
thoroughly, pour in one great spoonful and a half of boiling water, 
and let it boil up once, beating it all the time. Then remove from 
the fire, and flavor with nutmeg and half a wineglass of wine. 



OJ^ICES 



FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds of butter, two pounds of flour, two and a half pounds 
of sugar, twenty eggs, four pounds of raisins, four pounds currants, 
two pounds of citron, one spoonful saleratus, spices to the taste, 
wine and brandy sufiicient to make it quite moist ; two tea-cups of 
molasses is a great addition, it keeps it moist. This quantity will 
make two large cakes. It is better to prepare all your ingredients 
the day before you wish to make it up. 

COMMON FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. H. STURGES. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, two cups of 
milk, five cups of flour, two cups of raisins ; sometimes I add the 
yolk of one egg, spice to your taste, or about three tablespoonfuls 
of cinnamon, one of cloves, and one nutmeg, soda and cream 
of tarter. If you have sour milk use only soda, which is better. 

BLACK CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, 
two pounds of currants, two pounds of raisins, one pound citron» 
twelve eggs, one glass of wine, one glass of brandy, four nutmegs 
9 



6Q THE housekeeper's FRIEND. 

(grated), cinnamon and mace ; also may be added a cup of molasses. 
To make this cake the flour should be scorched a cinnamon color 
in the oven. 

WASHINGTON CAKE. 

/ One pound and three-quarters of flour, one pound of butter, one 
and a half pounds of sugar, eight eggs, dessert spoonful of soda, 
one wine glass of brandy or wine, three pounds of raisins, one pint 
sour cream with the soda in it, and added last. A very nice cake 
indeed. 

CAROLINA CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three cups of flour, one- 
half cup of sweet milk, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful of 
cream of tarter, one-half of soda. Rub the sugar and butter to 
a cream, put the soda in the milk, and add that, then whip the whites, 
and add them alternately with the flour ; the cream of tarter must 
be put into the flour. One grated cocoanut added to this makes a 
very nice cake. 

WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. H. STURGES. 

Three-quarters of a coffee cup of butter, two of sugar, one of 
milk, not quite four of flour, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful 
of soda in the milk, and two of cream of tarter in the flour. Beat 
the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the whites of the eggs 
without beating, and beat very well, then half of the milk, and 
half of the flour and beat well, then the other half and beat well. 
Bake one and a half hours. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one-half pound of but- 
ter, the whites of eight eggs, one tablespoonful of baking powder in 
the flour, or two teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter, and one of soda, 
one cup of sour cream. Bake in layers like jelly cake. 

ICING FOR SAME. 

One pound powdered sugar, a very small quantity of water to 
dissolve the sugar, then take the whites of three eggs, and after 



oaKes. 67 

beating them light, add the sugar. Spread on the cake, and put 
grated cocoanut between each layer, and over the top, or the cocoa- 
nut may be omitted 

BRIDE'S OAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quarters of a 
pound of butter, the whites of fifteen eggs ; season with nutmeg and 
lemon. 

RAISIN OAKE. 

One-half pound of butter, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, 
four eggs beaten together, one gill of sour cream, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one wine glass of brandy, one of wine, one pound of raisins, 
^nd one of currants. 

GOLDEN OAKE. 

One tea-cup of sugar, three-quarters of a cup of butter, one- 
quarter of a cup of sweet milk, yolks of eight eggs, one-half tea- 
spoonful of cream of tarter in the flour, one-quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda in the milk, two cups of flour. 

SILVER OAKE. 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two and a 
half cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tarter in the flour, the 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, last the whites of eight eggs. 
It is very well to make these two cakes at one time. 

OHOOOLATE OAKE. ^ 

MRS. G. JEWETT. 

Three-quarters of a cup of butter, four eggs beaten separately, 
one cup of milk, two of sugar, three cups of flour, four teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Bake in jelly cake-pans. 

lOINa FOR SAME. 
One cup of grated chocolate, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of 



68 

sweet milk ; dissolve the sugar in the milk, put iu the chocolate, 
and boil all together, put on the cake while warm. 

OOCOANUT CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one of sweet milk, four of 
sifted flour, whites of eight eggs, one teaspoonful of soda in the 
milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream oi tarter in the flour, one cocoa- 
nut grated. Bake in a large cake-pan. 

LEMON CAKE. 

Four eggs beaten together, two cups of sugar, two cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two-thirds of a cup of boiling 
water, a pinch of salt. This is to be baked in jelly-cake pans. 
Then take one large lemon (cut the outside rind off*), grate it in a 
dish, stir half in the cake, and half in the icing, which must be pre. 
pared in the usual way, keeping out sufficient icing without the 
lemon to place on top of the cake. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, 
twelve eggs beaten light, two pounds of almonds blanched (by pour- 
ing boiling water over them), and pounded in a mortar with rose 
water. Mix as pound cake. After pouring boiling water over the 
almonds, remove the skins, and drop them into cold water to keep 
them white until you are ready to pound them. 

POUND CAKE. (No. 1.) 

Cream a pound of butter, and beat it with a pound of powdered 
loaf-sugar. Beat eight eggs separately and light, and add the yolks 
to the sugar and butter. Stir in the flour and beaten whites alter- 
nately. Beat well, and bake in a buttered mould, or small pound- 
cake pans. 

POUND CAKE. (No. 2.) 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, two and a half cups of 



flour, seven eggs beaten separately, nutmeg to season. Beat well, 
and bake as above. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of flour, and one tablespoonful of vin- 
egar, and two of water to every three eggs. Use the juice of one 
lemon instead of vinegar if convenient. Beat the yellows of the 
eggs very light, then add the sugar and beat well together, then the 
vinegar and water. After beating the whites to a froth add them, 
and lastly stir in the flour very gently. 

BREAD CAKE. 

One pint of bread-dough, one cup of butter, two of sugar, five 
eggs, one cup of sour cream with a teaspoonful of soda in it, cloves, 
cinnamon and nutmeg to the taste. Work the butter and dough 
well together ; beat the sugar and eggs together very light, and put 
into the dough, then the cream and spices. Put it in a pan, and 
let stand until light. 

COOKIES. 

Eight cups of flour, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of cream, one teaspoonful of saleratus. Mix well, roll out thin 
and cut. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

MES. B. WHEELER. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sour milk, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda. Mix very soft. 

CUP CAKE. 

MRS. P. BLACK. 

One cup of butter, eight eggs, four cups of sugar, seven cups of 
flour, two cups of sweet milk, with two teaspoonfuls of soda dis- 
solved in it, and four teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter rubbed well 
through the flour, add a little salt, and vanilla. Some raisins may 
be added if you like. 



70 THE housekeeper's FRIEND. 

CUP CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, five cups of flour, three 
eggs, a little brandy or wine. Beat well, and bake in pans. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, four cups of flour, 
five eggs, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, currants any 
quantity you please. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Four cups of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, one of cream, 
five eggs, and three-fourths of a teaspoonful of soda. Rub the 
butter and sugar together, mix in the other ingredients, and bake as 
pound cake. 

BUCKEYE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three of sugar, one of sweet milk, six eggs 
four cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda in the milk, two of 
cream of tarter in the flour (or one tablespoonful of baking pow- 
der). Bake as you would sponge cake. This is a very good receipt 
for jelly cake. 

TEA CAKE. (No. 1.) 

MRS. STEVENSON. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, four cups of 
flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, three tablespoonfuls of sour 
milk, spices to the taste. Beat the sugar and butter together, then 
add the eggs without beating ; after mixing well together, put in the 
milk, and lastly the flour. The batter will be quite soft, add just 
enough flour to roll out ; they will be so soft when cut that it will be 
necessary to lift them with a knife to put into the pans. 

TEA CAKE. (No. 2.) 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of cream, one egg, 
six cups of flour, a half teaspoonful of saleratus, a little nutmeg, 
and a very small portion of allspice. 



CAKES. 71 

JUMBLES. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, three eggs (broken into the 
butter and sugar without beating,) and one nutmeg. Beat very light 
and add a little flour ; they must be made up soft, take out a very 
small portion on your board at^a time, roll with the hand in flour, 
then in sugar, turn and fasten the ends together, leaving a hole in 
the center. Bake in a hot oven. 

ALMOND^JUMBLES. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one and a^half pounds 
of flour, six eggs, leaving out the whites of four. Flavor with nut- 
meg. Blanch the almonds, chop them up, mix with white sugar^ 
and place on top. One-half pound of almonds in the shell is suf- 
ficient. 
^, J MACAROONS. 

Three eggs, one-half pound loaf-sugar, one pound of blanched > 
almonds, one- quarter pound of bitter almonds. Beat eggs sepa- 
rately to a froth, add the sugar to the yolks, then the whites, and 
lastly the almonds. Drop on buttered paper, and bake on tins in 
a quick oven for fifteen minutes until of a pale brown color. 

ALMOND iOAKE. 

MISS MATTIE NYE. 

Make a white mountain cake, and put the following mixture 
between : The yolks of four eggs, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
beaten light, the whites also beateu light with the same quantity of 
sugar, and then both mixed together, one-half glass of wine, one 
tablespo®nful of vanilla, one pound of blanched almonds cut fine, 
and one-half pint of sour cream. 

NUT CAKE. 

MISS MATTIE NYE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of cream of tarter, one- 



72 THE housekeeper's friend. 

half teaspoonful of soda, one pint of hickory-nut meats, flavor with 
vanilla. 

ROUGH AND READY CAKE. 

MISS MATTIE NYE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter, seven eggs, 
one pound of raisins, one pound and a half of blanched almonds, 
one-half pound of citron, not quite four cups of flour. 

SEED CAKES. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one tea-cup of 
sour cream, one teaspoonful of soda, one tablespoonful of caraway- 
seeds, flour sufficient to roll out. Cut and bake in a quick oven. 

GENTLEMAN'S GINGERBREAD. 

MRS. NTE, CHILLICOTHE. 

Beat very light one-half pound of butter and one-half pound of 
sugar, add the yolks of twelve eggs beaten very light, two-thirds of 
a glass of brandy, one glass and a half of wine, the juice and 
grated rind of one lemon, one grated nutmeg, two large tablespoon- 
fuls of cinnamon, and six tablespoonfuls of ginger ; when well beaten 
stir in one-half pound of flour, and beat the mixture thoroughly. 
Spread it very thin on buttered pans, bake in a quick oven, and 
cut in squares while warm. 

SCOTCH CAKE. 

Stir to a cream one pound of sugar and three-quarters of a pound 
of butter ; grate the peel of one lemon, and also add the juice, one 
wineglass of brandy. Separate the yolks and whites of nine eggs, 
beat them to a froth, and stir them into the cake ; then add one 
pound of flour, and lastly one pound of raisins. 

LEMON MIXTURE FOR CAKE. 

MATTIE NYE. 

Grate two or three lemons, and press out the juice, taking care 



CAKES. 73 

to remove all the seeds, one coffee-cup of white sugar, two eggs, 
piece of butte*- the size of an egg. Beat the sugar and eggs together, 
add the lemon, and boil until smooth ; stirring all the time. 

CHICAGO CAKE. 

MRS. C. PORTKR. 

Four cups of flour, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, whites often eggs, one teaspoonful of cream of tarter, 
and one-half teaspoonful of soda. 

LANCASTER CAKE. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One pint of sour cream, blanch and pulverize one pound of 
almonds, three eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, vanilla to the 
taste. Beat the yolks with two tablespoonfuls of sugar ; mix the 
almonds with the cream, beat the whites to a stiff froth with two 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add to the cream. Mix all together ; 
it should be as thick as sponge cake batter. This is to be put 
between layers of cup or delicate cake, as you would in making 
jelly-cake. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

MRS. NYE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
whites of eight eggs, three cups ot flour, two teaspoonfuls of bak- 
ing powder. Bake in jelly-cake pans. 

Icing for the above. — One tea-cup of sugar, one-half tea-cup of 
water, whites of three eggs. Boil the sugar and water together, 
and when it comes to a boil, stir in the whites of the eggs well 
beaten, one teaspoon tul of citric acid, one teaspoonful of essence of 
lemon, and one of vanilla. 



TO MAKE KISSES. 

Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in a pound 
of powdered white sugar a little at a time. Beat well ; flavor with 
10 



74 THE housekeeper's fkiend. 

lemon, drop on white paper buttered, and bake with a slow heat, 
but not too cool an oven, or they will run together. Stick two 
together when they are done. 

CRULLERS. (No. 1.) 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups of buttermilk, 
five eggs, one teaspoonful of saleratus, one nutmeg, and any other 
spices you may like, add flOur sufficient to roll well ; cut and fry in 
hot lard. 

CRULLERS. (No. 2.) 

Beat two eggs well with a tea-cup of sugar, stir in half a teacup- 
fiil of milk, or cream if you have it, and pour into a pan of flour ; 
make a stiff dough, roll it thin, cut it in shapes, and fry in boiling 
lard. The more lard there is the less they will soak it up, and it 
must be hot or they will not be light. Sift powdered sugar over 
them while they are hot. 

CRULLERS. (No. 3.) 

MRS. JOHN GRANGER. 

Two cups of coffee-sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, three eggs, 
one pint of buttermilk, one nutmeg, one heaping teaspoonful of 
soda in the milk, flour sufficient to roll out. Fry in hot lard. 
(Splendid). 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Stir into one pint of warm milk a half tea-cup of butter, and the 
same of lard, flour enough to make a stiff batter, one teaspoonful 
of salt, and one cup of yeast ; set near the stove to rise, 2 1 When 
light, work in two and a half cups of sugar, four eggs well beaten, 
two teaspoonfuls of cinnamon, a little nutmeg ; add flour until it is 
not quite as stiff as bread, knead well ; let it rise again very light, 
roll out, and cut in any shape desired. Fry in hot lard, and sprinkle 
sugar over them while hot. 



CAKES. 75 

DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. H. STURGES. 

One cup of cream, good and thick, one cup of sugar, one egg^ 
nutmeg, and a little salt, almost one teaspoonful of soda, and two 
of cream of tarter, flour enough to enable you to roll out ; cut them 
with a biscuit tin. 

. SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, three cups of molasses, five 
cups of flour, one and a half cups of sour milk or cream, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one large tablespoonful of ginger, 
add cloves, allspice and cinnamon to the taste ; also citron and 
raisins if you wish. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. (No. 2.) 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sour milk or 
cream, one cup of molasses, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one 
tablespoonful of ginger, nutmeg and cloves. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one pint of molasses, one 
teaspoonful of soda, spices to the taste, flour sufficient to roll well, 
roll thin and cut. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

MRS. B. WHEELER. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter or 
lard, one and a half teaspoonfuls of soda stirred in the shortening, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, and 
last put in three tablespoonfuls of water. Flour sufficient to roll 
out well. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

MRS. JOHN GRANGER. 

One cup of molasses, one tablespoonful of butter ; boil together. 
Ginger to the taste, and flour sufficient to thicken, roll thin and bake 
in a moderate oven. 



76 THE housekeeper's frtenb. 

JELLY ROLLS. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar,^one cup of flour, one teaspoonful 
of butter, one teaspoonful of yeast powder. Roll very thin. 

Jelly for Roll. — One cup of sugar, one Qgg, juice of one lemon, 
one teaspoonful cold water ; let it thicken on the stove, stirring all 
the while. You may either use this]' jelly, or any other you may 
prefer. 

WAFERS. 

Mix together, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and six well beaten eggs, with flour enough to make a stiff 
batter. Beat the batter very smooth, and flavor with lemon or nut- 
meg. Heat and grease the wafer-irons every time you bake one. 
Roll up the cake while warm (shape of a horn), and sift powdered 
sugar over them while they are hot. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and a half cups of 
flour, three eggs, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. 

For the Dark. — Take two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of cloves, one of cinnamon and one of nutmeg. Put this 
in a teacupful of the above mixture, and then pour the white and 
dark into the pan in alternate layers. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

For the White Part. — One-half cup of butter, three cups of white 
sugar, five cups of flour, one-half cup of sweet milk, whites of six 
eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

Dark Part. — One-half cup of butter, two of brown sugar, one 
cup of molasses with one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of sweet 
milk, yolks of six eggs, and one whole Qgg, teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice, flour to make a soft batter. Cover 
your pan first with the white mixture, then a layer of the dark giv- 
ing it a slight stir with the tip of the spoon, then more of the white 
and so on until your pan is full ; having the top layer of the white 
mixture. 



CAfeES. 77 

CREAM CAKES. 

MISS FARLEY, OF BOSTON. 

For the Outside. — Boil together one-half pint of water and two- 
thirds of a cup of butter ; while boiling stir in thoroughly one and 
a half cups of flour. When cool, add five eggs well beaten, and 
one-quarter of a teaspoonful of soda. Drop and bake about twenty 
minutes. 

For the Inside. — Boil one pint of milk, and while boiling add 
two eggs, one cup of white sugar and one cup of flour beaten 
together ; after taking from the fire add a small piece of butter and 
flavor with lemon or vanilla. Split the cakes and fill. 

COCOANUT MACAROONS. 

Take equal parts of grated cocoanut and powdered white sugar, 
and mix the beaten whites of two eggs until they form a thick 
paste. Bake on buttered paper until of a pale brown color. 

TRIFLES. 

MATTIE NYE. 

One egg to a teaspoonful of sugar, and as much flour as will make 
a stiff" dough. Roll very thin, and cut in such shapes as you wish, 
and fry in hot lard. 

CINNAMON WAFERS. 

MISS BARKOWS. 

One pound of white sugar, one-quarter of a pound of butter, 
three eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in as little water 
as possible, two tablespoonfuls of ground cinnamon, and flour suffi- 
cient to make stiff"; roll very thin and bake quickly. 

SAND TARTS. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

Five-eighths of a pound of butter, one pound of sugar, three eggs, 
flour enough to mix very soft. Reserve the whites of the two eggs 
for spreading over the tops of the cakes. Sprinkle with sugar and 
cinnamon. 



7S TttE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIEKt>. 

Mrs. H's Scotch Cake Jumbles. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, three 
eggs, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one-quarter of a teaspoonful 
of soda. Mix to a soft dough. 

ONE EQG CAKE. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One egg well beaten, one and a half tea-cups of sugar, piece of 
butter size of an egg, one cup of milk, one pint of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls of cream of tarter, one teaspoonful of soda. Bake a half 
hour. 

Mrs. Taylor's Drop Ginger Cake. 

MRS. C. PORTER. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of soda, one of cinnamon, 
one of allspice, two of ginger, and a little over one quart of flour. 

SUGAR GINGER BREAD. 

MISS CAREY. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one egg, one-quarter of a 
cup of sour cream, or milk, a dessertspoonful of soda, a teaspoon- 
ful of ginger ; as much flour as can be stirred in, then knead in a 
little more ; roll out thin, cut and bake in a quick oven, 

ICING FOR CAKES. 

One and a half pints of boiling water, one and a half table- 
spoonfuls of gelatine, three and a half pounds of powdered sugar, 
juice of one lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the 
sugar and lemon. Let it stand a few minutes. This is icing suffi- 
cient for two large cakes. 



JELLIES, CORDIALS AND WINES." 79 

BOILED ICING. 

Take one pound of sugar and a half a pint of water, boil it well 
together until it will drop in strings from the spoon, then pour it 
over the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat it 
until cold ; flavor with lemon juice or rose water, and apply with a 
wet knife. 

COLD ICING FOR CAKE. 

Take one pound of pulverized sugar ; beat the whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth, and stir gradually into them the sugar. Beat 
it well and flavor with lemon, or essence of rose. 

ICING. 

Whites of four eggs, one pound of pulverized sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls of starch, (corn), essence of lemon to suit the taste. 



JELLIES, CORDIALS AND WINES. 



WINE JELLY. 

Take one box of Cox's gelatine, pour over it a pint of cold water, 
(in winter I use a pint and a half of both cold and hot water), after 
standing about ten minutes pour over it the same quantity of boil" 
ing water ; stir until the gelatine is entirely dissolved, then add one 
pint of sherry wine, about two pints of sugar, two lemons, (if small 
use three,) these I pare throwing away the yellow rind, and slicing 
the lemon very thin, a handful of cinnamon sticks broken up, and 
two eggs, and as you want to use the shell 6f the eggs wash them 
clean, and break the whites on a plate, (leaving out the yolks,) 
break up the shells in the whites and beat a little, and stir into the 
mixture just before putting on the stove. Let it boil up several 



80 THE housekeeper's friend. 

times then remove, and strain through a flannel bag ; which should 
be standing in a pan of boiling water, and wrung out just before 
the jelly is put in, (the bag used for this jelly should never be used 
for any other purpose), and one other thing to be remembered is 
never stir after putting in the eggs. Let it boil and then strain 
immediately. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Take a pint of orange juice to a pound of sugar, and an ounce of 
isinglass or gelatine, boil and skim for fifteen minutes. Mix in a little 
of the grated rind, and when done pour into a mould. About one 
dozen oranges will make this quantity. 

BRANDY PEACHES. 

Weigh ten pounds of peaches, take eight pounds of sugar to that 
quantity, and three pints of water to make a syrup. After the 
peaches are prepared in lye, put them into cold water until you are 
ready to put them into the syrup ; then boil them in the syrup, 
one-half your peaches at a time until they look clear and tolerably 
soft, then take them out carefully with a perforated ladle, one at a 
time, and place them in your glass jars, and pour over them your 
brandy. Let them stand some hours until the brandy penetrates, 
then pour off the brandy, and put equal quantities of it with the 
syrup, and fill up your jars. You will have a great quantity of 
syrup which must be boiled down more than half, to almost the 
consistency of taffy. 

To make the lye for removing the skin from the peaches : You 
take two quarts of wood ashes, and one gallon of water, as soon as 
it boils throw in a dozen peaches at a time ; as soon as the skin 
commences to peel off, (which will be in a moment or two,) take 
them out with a skimmer, and drop immediately into a bucket or 
pan of cold water ; scrape each one off with a knife, and drop again 
into another vessel containing clean, cold water, allowing them to 
remain until you are ready to cook them in the syrup. They will 
turn black if kept out of the water. One-half gallon of brandy 
is sufficient to make a great quantity. 



JELLIES, CORDIALS AND WnTBS. SI 

BRANDY PEACHES. (A More Simple Rule.) 

Take fresh clingstones, and drop for a minute in boiling lye. 
Remove from the lye with a perforated ladle, and drop in a bucket 
of cold water. Wipe with a rough towel to remove the skin, and 
drop into a syrup prepared in the meantime of half a pound of 
sugar to every pound of fruit. Let them cook fifteen minutes, and 
take from the syrup and put on dishes to cool. Boil the syrup 
down to half, and put an equal part of old peach brandy or French 
brandy if you wish them very strong. They will be very nice with 
less brandy. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Pare your peaches, take out the stone, weigh, chop up quite fine, 
add one-half pound of sugar to every pound of peaches, put in part 
of the stones, and let simmer for two hours, stirring with great care 
for fear it should bum. 

BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. 

MES. P. BLACK. 

To two quarts of juice add one pound of sugar, one-half ounce 
of cloves, one-half ounce of cinnamon, one-half ounce of nutmeg. 
Boil twenty minutes, and when cold add one pint good brandy. 
This is splendid in cases of dysentery. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

Boil and skim the juice, and to every gallon of it take two 
pounds of sugar. Dissolve the sugar in a little water, and when it 
comes to a boil strain it, and mix with the juice, and to this quan- 
tity add a half pint of spirits. Bottle when cold. 

BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

Half a pound of blackberry root, and one-half pound of white 
oak bark, cut into small pieces or pulverized, and boiled in one gal- 
lon of water until it is reduced to two quarts, then strain, and boil 
U 



82 THE housekeeper's friend. 

up with cloves, cinnamon and pepper, and enough sugar to make a 
thick syrup. Add one gill best French brandy to each quart. 
Bottle and seal with wax, when it will keep for years. This was 
used most successfully during the late war, in cases of dysentery. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Crush the fruit, strain off the juice, put it into a tub, and let it 
stand three days, removing the scum once or twice a day. Then 
put it into a keg or barrel, and to each quart of juice add three 
pounds of the best white sugar, and water sufficient to make one 
gallon. If you do not like sweet wine reduce the sugar to two and 
a half pounds, or even less to the gallon. The cask must be full, 
and the bung left off until fermentation ceases (which is usually 
from twelve to fifteen days). Fill the cask up daily with w^ater. 
When fermentation ceases, rack the wine off carefully by a syphon, 
then cleanse the cask thoroughly with boiling water ; return the 
wine to it, stop it tightly and let it stand four or five months. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

To every gallon of berries, after being well mashed, one quart of 
boiling water. Let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain, and add 
three pounds of loaf-sugar to every gallon of juice. Let it stand 
until it is done fermenting for three or four weeks, with the bung 
laid on loosely. At the end of that time stop it tightly, and set 
away for some months, and then bottle it. Strawberry wine is made 
in the same way, except that no water is added to the juice. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Squeeze the juice from three pints of raspberries, and mix with 
one pint of the best white vinegar, and a pound of loaf-sugar. 
Simmer in a jar or pitcher, set in boiling w^ater for an hour, skim 
it, and bottle when cold. Put a teaspoouful of this into half a pint 
of water, and it makes a very pleasant drink. 



JELLIES, WlNES AI^D CORDIALS. SS 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

MISS BARROWS. 

Pour half a pint of 'vinegar over four pounds of raspberries, 
place this in an earthen jar, cover tight, and place it in a sunny- 
window for twelve hours. Take it in at night, and put it in the 
window the following day for another twelve hours. Turn into a 
flannel bag and let all the juice drain through without pressure. 
Put one pound of sugar to one pint of juice, boil until the scum 
rises, skim thoroughly, and then cork up tight in bottles. 

STRAWBERRY VINEGAR. 

Put four pounds of very ripe strawberries into three quarts of 
the best vinegar, and let them stand three (jr four days. Then drain 
the vinegar through a jelly-bag, and pour on to the same quantity 
of fruit. Then strain again, and to every pound of liquor add one 
pound of sugar ; bottle and let it stand covered, but not corked, 
one week. Then cork tightly, and set in a dry, cool place. 

TO PRESERVE LEMONS. 

MRS. FULTON. 

Squeeze the juice from the lemon and put the rind into a brine 
that will bear an Q^g. Let them remain from one to six weeks as 
convenient, then take them from the brine, weigh them, cut in slices 
and soak for twenty-four h©urs in fresh cold water. Then put them 
on the stove in cold water and let them boil several hours until 
tender. Take pound for pound of sugar, with one-half pint of 
water to a pound, and cook until the syrup is rich and thick. 

Oranges can be done in the same way. 

CONSERVED PEACHES. 

Pare and cut your fruit, and to each pound of fruit take three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. Boil them until clear, take 
them out, and drain them slightly, and spread on dishes to dry. 
Sprinkle a little sugar on them every day, and if any syrup is 



84 

formed, remove them to fresh dishes. When quite dry, lay them 
lightly in a jar with alternate layers of sugar. Quinces are nice 
prepared in the same way. 

BLACKBERRY JAM. 

To six quarts of ripe berries take three pounds of sugar. Put it 
into a kettle and boil two hours, stirring frequently. Put in any 
spices you like or omit them. "When cool, put it into ajar, cover 
with bran died paper, and seal. It will keep for years. 

To Make Any Kind of Jelly Quickly. 

MISS CHAPMAN. 

One pound of sugar to one pint of juice. Heat the sugar as hot 
as possible without buriJing or dissolving it (in the oven of the 
Btove). Boil the juice five minutes, add the hot sugar, stir it well, 
and when it has boiled one minute again, set it ofi* and fill your 
glasses. Observe the time strictly. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

MRS. NYE. V 

Peel and cut up six oranges, be careful to remove the seeds , and 
thick white skin. Put them into a bowl, and sugar them well. For 
the jelly take a half a box of gelatine, and pour on it one-half pint 
of cold water, let it soak one hour, then add one and a half pints of 
boiling water, and sugar to the taste ; flavor with the juice of two 
lemons Stir until the gelatine and sugar are well dissolved, and 
then pour it over the oranges. Put into a mold, or break up when 
cool in a glass dish. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

MISS COLLIER, PHILADELPHIA. 

Take one gallon of water to four pounds of sugar. Mix together 
and when dissolved have the fruit ready in the cans or jars, and 
pour the syrup over it. Seal the cans up tight, then stand them 



in a kettle of cold water, and let the water come to a boil, then boil 
five minutes. Take them out and set away bottom upwards. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 

MISS COLLIER, PHILADELPHIA. 

Peel the pineapples, and cut out all the eyes, then grate them, 
add a full pound of sugar for a pound of fruit. Boil until they 
form a rich jam. Stir a good deal, then seal up. 

CRANBERRY JELLY. 

FANNY RUSSELL. 

Onepart water, threeparts cranberries, boiled in a porcelain ket- 
tle until soft. Strain through a colander, not pressing very hard, 
and without again putting on the stove, stir in two parts sugar. Beat 
quickly until thoroughly mixed, then pour into your molds. 



IDK;IIiTK:S. 



COFFEE. 

Roast it quickly in the oven of the stove until it is a light-brown 
color, stirring it constantly, and when half cold stir in the beaten 
whites of two eggs to every two pounds of coffee. Let it stand un- 
til it becomes quite cold and dry, and put away in a tight box for 
use, When you are ready to boil it, grind and mix with a little 
cold water, allowing a heaping tablespoonful of coffee and a tea- 
cup of boiling water to every person. Let it boil rapidly from 
twenty minutes to a half hour, in a covered tin-pot stirring it from 
the sides occasionally. Put in a teacupful of cold water to settle 
it, and after standing for five or six minutes pour it off carefully 
into another coffee-pot, and send to table. If coffee is not browned 
well you cannot have good coffee. 



m 

TEA. 

Have your tea-kettle boiling, and you can always have a good 
cup of tea. Scald your tea-pot out first, then put in not quite one 
teaspoonful to each person, pour a little water out of your tea-ket- 
tle upon it, and let it stand two or three minutes where it will keep 
hot, then fill the pot up with boiling water. In making black tea 
use the same quantity as for green, put it into a tin-cup, fill it up 
with boiling water, set it on the stove and let it boil up once, then 
put it into your tea-pot, and fill up with boiling water. Green and 
black tea mixed are very good. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Get the best baker's chocolate, and allow for one quart of water 
four tablespoonfuls of chocolate ; mix it with a little water, and 
then stir it into your vessel of water. Boil fifteen or twenty minutes, 
then add one quart of milk, let it all boil together a few minutes, 
then season with a little nutmeg. The sugar and cream may be 
added at the table. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS. 



BEEP TEA. 

Take of lean beef (cut into shreds), one pound, water one quart. 
Boil for twenty minutes, removing any scum that rises. When it 
has become cold, strain, and add a little salt and pepper. 

Another -Take half a pound of good steak, cut into thin slices, and 
spread these in a hollow dish ; sprinkle a little salt over them, and 
pour upon the whole a pint of boiling water. Cover the dish, and 
place it near the fire for half an hour, then remove to a pan, and 
boil for fifteen minutes ; strain through a fine sieve. The quantity 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS, 87 

of water is too small for the strength of the tea for invalids, but is 
sufficient to extract all the soluble parts of the beef, and the tea 
can be reduced to the proper strength by the addition of boiling 
water. 

ESSENCE OF BEEF. 

Take of lean beef, sliced, a sufficient quantity to fill the body of 
a porter bottle, cork loosely, and place it in a pot of cold water, 
attaching the neck, by means of a string, to the handle of the pot. 
Boil for one hour and a half to two hours, then decant the liquid, 
and skim it. To this preparation may be added spices, salt, wine, 
brandy, etc., according to the taste of the patient, and nature of 
the disease. 

MUTTON TEA. 

Take one pound of good mutton, free from the fat, and cut into 
thin slices ; pour over it a pint and a half of boiling water, in the 
same manner as directed for beef tea ; but it requires to be boiled 
for half an hour previous to straining. If the invalid desires the 
addition of barley, an ounce of clean pearl barley, washed, and 
macerated in boiling water for an hour, may be boiled with the 
mutton tea, and the undissolved barley separated by straining. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Take a small chicken, free it from the skin, and from all the fat 
between the muscles, divide it longitudinally into halves ; remove 
the lungs, liver, etc., then cut it, bones and muscles, into thin slices, 
and put these into a pan with a sufficient quantity of salt ; add a 
quart of boiling water, cover the pan, and simmer slowly for two 
hours ; then strain through a fine sieve. 

VEGETABLE BROTH. 

Take two potatoes, one carrot, one turnip, and one onion. Slice 
them and boil in a quart of water for an hour, adding more water 
from time to time, so as to keep up the original quantity ; flavor 



S8 THE housekeeper's friend. 

with salt, and a small portion of pot-herbs, strain. When advisa- 
ble, a small quantity of mushroon catsup added to this broth 
greatly improves its taste. This is a good substitute for animal 
food, when the last is inadmissible. 

PANADA. 

Stale wheat bread, one ounce ; cinnamon one drachm, water one 
pint. Cover up, and let stand for an hour, beat up, and boil for 
ten minutes, adding a little grated nutmeg and sugar. Wine may 
be added if required. 

BOILED FLOUR. 

Take of fine flour one pound, tie it up in a linen cloth as tight 
as possible, and after frequently dipping it into cold water, dredge 
the outside with flour till a crust is formed round it, which will pre- 
vent the water soaking into it while boiling. Boil for a long time, 
and permit to cool, when it will become a hard, dry mass. This is 
to be grated, and prepared like arrow root. A good diet for child- 
ren in diarrhea. 

TOAST WATER. 

Toast thoroughly a slice of stale bread, put it in a jug, and pour 
over it a quart of water which has been boiled and cooled, and in 
two hours decant ; a small piece of orange or lemon peel put into 
the jug with the bread improves the flavor greatly. This forms a 
good drink in febrile afiections. 

MULLED WINE. 

Take a quarter of an ounce of bruised cinnamon, half a nutmeg, 
(grated), and ten bruised cloves ; infuse them in half a pint of 
boiling water for an hour, strain, and add half an ounce of white 
sugar. Pour the whole into a pint of hot port or sherry wine. 
This is a good cordial and restorative in the low stages of fever, or 
in the debility of convalescence from fevers. 



DISHES FOR INVALIDS. 89 

CAUDLE. 

Into a pint of thin gruel, put while it is boiling hot, the yolk of 
one egg, beaten with sugar, and mix with a tablespoonful of cold 
water, a glass of wine, and some nutmeg. Mix well together. 
This is a nourishing restorative mixture given during convales- 
cence. 

GRUEL. 

ST. LOUIS COOK BOOK. 

Gruel can be made of corn meal, arrowroot or oat meal. Take 
about one tablespoonful of either, mix smooth with a little cold 
water, then pour over it one pint of boiling water, let it cook on the 
stove for thirty minutes, stirring frequently, add a little salt ; if it 
thickens too much, add more boiling water. You may add a little 
sugar, nutmeg and a little milk or cream if desired. 

OAT MEAL MUSH. 

Have some water boiling on the stove, and stir the oat meal into 
it. Let it boil until thick and well done, and just before lifting 
put in a little salt. If you put the salt in too soon it will turn it 
quite dark. Eat with sugar and cream. A splendid diet for child- 
ren, or indeed for any one. 

BRAN. 

Get nice clean coarse bran from the mill, and after your break- 
fast put about five teaspoonfuls into a tumbler, and fill it up with 
cream, (milk will do if you have no cream,) put a little salt in if 
you prefer. Most excellent for dyspepsia, or constipation, and will 
prolong ones life indefinitely, and you may possibly live to see your 
great-great-grand-children. 



D^EIDIOJLIj. 



REMEDY FOR DIPHTHERIA. 

Chlorate of potassa is a well known means of arresting the pro- 
gress of diphtheria. A solution should be kept in every family 



90 THE housekeeper's friend. 

medicine chest, ready to be administered in every suspicious case of 
sore throat. The solution is made by dissolving half an ounce of the 
chlorate in a pint of boiling water. It should be preserved in a 
bottle, closely corked, and when used the bottle should be shaken 
with sufficient violence to diffuse the crystalline sediments through 
the water. The dose is a tablespoonful thrice daily. 

Remedy for Hoarseness or Loss of Voice. 

Dissolve in the mouth a lump of borax, the size of a garden pea, 
or about three or four grains. If held in the mouth for ten min- 
utes before speaking or singing, it will act like magic. 

Receipt for Chronic Diarrhea. 

Cinnamon seed one-half ounce, cardamon seed one-quarter of an 
ounce, carroway seed one-quarter of an ounce, orange peel two 
ounces, English gentian one ounce, camomile flowers one-half ounce. 
Put on to the above one quart of old rye whisky. (They must all 
be ground up first). 

A Splendid Remedy for Dysentery. 

A dessert spoonful of olive oil every four hours, and an opium 
pill between, this is the quantity for an adult, of course it must be 
much less for a child. 

CURE FOR EPILEPSY. 

Bromide of Potassium six drachms, bromide of ammonia two 
scruples, bicarb of potash fifteen grains, tincture of Columbia two 
and a half fluid ounces, water three fluid ounces. Mix and take 
two tablespoonfuls three times a day before each meal in a little 
water. It is very necessary for any one so afflicted to be careful as 
to the diet, take his meals regularly, eating nothing between meals, 
and never to overload the stomach, eat uioderutelv, and of such 
food as seems best to agree with him ; taking the last meal early 
which should be light; be careful of over-exertion, and taking 
too much sleep : also keep the bowels open and regular. 



MEDICAL. 91 

A New Treatment for Cancer. 

Dr. Hasse, of Berlin, injects with a hyperdermic syringe, pure 
alcohol, to which one per cent, of ether is added, not into the new 
growth, but around its edges ; thus obliterating he claims the ves- 
sels, especially lymphatics, which convey the infection, and causing 
the atrophy of the growth itself 

A Most Excellent Remedy for Toothache. 

Alchohol one ounce, laudanum one drachm, chloroform five 
drachms, gum camphor one-half drachm, oil of cloves one-half 
drachm, sulph. ether two drachms, oil of lavender one drachm. 
Saturate a small piece of cotton, and put into the cavity ; be care- 
fiil not to touch any part of the mouth with it as it is very pungent ; 
put the cotton on the point of some sharp instrument, put it into 
the cavity^ and place a small piece of clean cotton over it. 

. CHOLERA MIXTURE. 

Laudanum, tincture of Rhubarb, and spirits of camphor, equal 
parts. Begin with thirty drops, taken clear and unmixed, with a 
little sugar placed in the mouth afterwards. Repeat the dose 
(after every evacuation) increasing it if the case becomes urgent to 
sixty drops, (a teaspoonful), or ninety if necessary. No household 
should be without this remedy, particularly in the summer. 

Another Mixture for Same. 

Laudanum two ounces, spirits of camphor two ounces, essence of 
peppermint two ounces, Hoffman's anodyne two ounces, tincture of 
cayenne pepper two drachms, tincture of ginger one ounce. This 
is also invaluable. A teaspoonful in a little water, or a half a tea- 
spoonful repeated in an hour afterward in a tablespoonful of 
brandy. This preparation will check diarrhea in ten minutes, and 
abate other premonitory symptoms of cholera immediately. 

FOR SORE THROAT. 

Take a small quantity of chlorate potassa, pour boiling water on 
it, and let it stand until it takes up all it will, then add old rye 



92 THE housekeeper's friend. 

whisky equal to the amount of water you used. Add to this tinc- 
ture of capsicum until the mixture is pretty sharp, and then it is 
ready for use. This is good for a gargle in all cases of sore-throat 
and is an extiellent remedy for diphtheria, using it both as a gargle 
and internally. Dose. — One teaspoonful every hour, or when very 
bad every half hour. Water will only dissolve a certain quantity 
of potassa. A good rule, is to take a half a pint of water, and 
when it has absorbed all the potassa it will, pour the water off and 
add a half a pint of whisky. The capsicum is harmless so there is no 
danger of getting too much in, but to this quantity I should say 
add about two tablespoonfuls, which will make it sufficiently hot. 

FOR NEURALGIA. 

Alcohol one quart, sulphuric ether four ounces, chloroform two 
ounces, laudanum two ouncss, oil of wintergreen one-half otunce, oil 
of lavender one-half ounce, camphor one-half ounce. Apply with a 
silk handkerchief. Half this quantity is enough to have mixed at 
one time, as the chloroform and ether evaporate so quickly. 

Another Remedy for Same. 

Bathe the parts affected every fifteen or twenty minutes with 
acetic acid No. 8. 

MILK AS A REMEDY. 

An article appeared lately in which it is stated on the authority 
of a very celebrated physician, that in the East warm milk is used 
to a great extent as a specific for diarrhea. A pint every four hours 
it is said will check the most violent diarrhea, incipient cholera, and 
dysentery. The milk should never be boiled, but only heated suffi- 
ciently to be agreeably warm, not too hot to drink. Milk which 
has been boiled is unfit for use. This writer says : "It has never 
failed in curing in six or twelve hours, and I have tried it at least 
fifty times. I also gave it to a dying man who had been subject to 
dysentery eight months, and it acted on him like a charm, he is still 
living, a hale, hearty man, and now nothing that may hereafter 
occur will ever shake his faith in hot milk." 



Medical* 93 

Treatment of Scarlet Fever. 

Rubbing the body with hogs lard or fat reduces the temperature 
of the skin. A celebrated German physician recommends to incor- 
porate one or two grammes of carbolic acid, into one hundred 
grammes of lard, and with this to rub the whole body, excepting 
the head, two or three times a day. The acid operates to destroy 
the germs or spores of the disease, the lard softens the skin and 
reduces the temperature. 

RECEIPT FOR PAREGORIC. 

DR. WILLS. 

Powdered opium two drachms, gum camphor two scruples, oil of 
anise seed one fluid drachm, whisky one quart, add lastly three 
tablespoonfuls of honey. Place all in a bottle together, and for 
one week shake the mixture twice a day ; after standing awhile it 
will become very clear, then pour off into a small bottle what you 
wish to use from day to day, and set the other away. 

CURE FOR CHILLS AND FEVER. 

DR. WILLS. 

Quinine is the only remedy, and taken in the following manner, 
will cure successfully : Have twenty grains of quinine put up in 
five grains powders ; after you have had the chill, and the fever 
has passed off, take one powder (five grains), then in four or five 
hours take the same quantity again, and so on until you have taken 
the twenty grains. You will then escape your chill the third day. 
Before the seventh day comes around (they come on periodically 
every seventh day) take the same quantity as before just as if you 
had had a chill. Keep this treatment up for six or eight weeks, and 
you will be entirely restored. I think will never have a return of 
ague. 

TO BREAK UP A COLD. 

DR. WILLS. 

When you feel the first symptoms, take a Dover's powder with a 
glass of hot lemonade or whisky punch, go to bed, wrap up warm, 
and by morning you will be entirely relieved. In addition the feet 
should be bathed in hot mustard water. 



94 

A Sovereign Remedy for Earache. 

DR. WILLS. 

As soon as a child complains of earache, give- it sufficient syrup 
of ipecac to vomit it freely. It will act like a charm, and the child 
will be asleep and free from the pain fifteen minutes afterwards. 
If a mother will only use this remedy she will save her child from 
a great deal of suffering, and herself from many sleepless nights. 
My plan is to give a teaspoonful of ipecac, after waiting ten or fif- 
teen minutes (giving the child in the mean time plenty of water to 
drink,) if it then does not produce the desired effect, give another 
spoonful, this last will usually be sufficient. 

PEPPER TEA. 

Six red peppers broken in small pieces, one pint of boiling water 
poured over them, one teaspoonful of salt, one-half pint of vinegar. 
This is a good remedy for sore throat. 

REMEDY FOR A COUGH. 

Five cents worth of rock candy, five cents worth of gum arable, 
five cents worth of licorice, all dissolved in a pint of water over a 
slow fire. When cold add five cents worth of paregoric, and five 
cents worth of syrup of ipecac ; bottle and take a teaspoonful sev- 
eral times a day. 

REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM. 

One-half pint of turpentine, one-half pint of alcohol, one ounce 
of camphor, one ounce saltpetre, one ounce ammonia, one-eighth of 
an ounce of cayenne pepper. Shake well before applying. 

ORANGES AS A MEDICINE. 

"A distinguished physician once said that if his patients would 
make a practice of eating a couple of good oranges every morning 
before breakfast, from February until June, his practice would be 
gone. The medicinal effect of pure fruit acids is excellent upon 
the physical system. 



MEDICAL. 95 

To Make a Mustard Plaster. 

If you wish it to produce irritation immediately, mix some flour 
and water together quite stiff, spread this on your cloth and then 
sprinkle dry mustard on it quite thick, place a thin cloth over this 
and dampen with hot water. If you do not wish to raise a blister, 
mix the mustard up with the white of an egg and a little water. A 
poultice made in this way may be kept on an indefinite time with- 
out raising a blister. 

TREATMENT OF CROUP. 

Every mother knows those fearful premonitory symptoms of 
croup, the hoarse sepulchral cough which is so startling. The child 
should be at once taken up, its throat and chest rubbed thoroughly 
before a hot fire with lard and camphor melted together, then a wet 
compress put on, by folding up a cloth of a half dozen thicknesses, 
(have it about two or three inches in width,) wring it out of cold 
water, then pin it on to a piece of flannel, allowing the flannel to 
extend beyond it on either side at least an inch, pin it securely 
around the neck placing another piece of flannel or a soft towel out 
side, entirely excluding the air. If the child is very much oppress- 
ed give sufiicient ipecac (syrup) to vomit it ; these remedies can be 
used until you have time to secure a physician. If the child con- 
tinues t© be hoarse, continue giving ipecac all the next day every 
two hours not enough to vomit it, but sufiicient to keep the phlegm 
loose. Another remedy for croup is alum, about one-half teaspoon- 
ful of pulverized alum in a small quantity of molasses, repeat the 
dose every hour until the patient is relieved ; or alum dissolved in 
water, and given in small doses every hour. Onion syrup is also 
very good for hoarseness in children ; put two or three onions m a 
pan place them in the oven of the stove, let them get thoroughly 
baked, then squeeze the juice out into a saucer, and to every spoon- 
ful of juice put the same of white sugar, and give the child a tea- 
spoonful every hour or oftener if necessary. 

CHILDREN'S SORE MOUTH. 

Get the pulverized borax, and to about one-third of a teaspoon- 
ful of borax, mix about one and a half teaspoonfuls of powdered 



96 THE housekeeper's friend. 

sugar. Mother's should wash their babies mouths out every other 
morning with a solution of borax and water, they should keep a 
bottle of it dissolved all the time, pour a little into a cup, and with 
a cloth wrapt around the finger and dipped into the solution, wipe 
the child's mouth out well with it ; this will prevent children ever 
having sore mouths. 

Another Remedy for Scarlet Fever. 

"Undress the child and put it to bed at the very first sign of sick- 
ness Give it, if it has already fever, sourish warm lemonade, with 
some gum arabic in it. Then cover the abdomen with some dry 
flannel. Take a well-folded bed-sheet and put it in boiling hot 
water ; wring it out by means of dry towels, and put this over the 
whole and wait. The hot cloth will perhaps require repeated heat- 
ing, according to the severity of the case a ad its stage of progress. 
Perspiration will commence in the child in from ten minutes to two 
hours. The child then is saved ; it soon falls to sleep. Soon after 
the child awakes it shows slight symptoms of returnuing inclina- 
tion for food ; if necessary give injections of oil, or soap and water, 
and its recovery will be as steady as the growth of a green-house 
plant if well treated. If the above treatment is applied in due 
time under the eyes and direction of a competent physician, it is 
said that not one in a hundred children will ever die of scarlet 
fever. 



nyCISOELXj^IsrEOTJS 



WHITMAN'S TAFFY. 

One quart of granulated sugar, one pint of water, three table- 
spoonfiils of vinegar, one tablespoonful of butter. Cook until thick , 
(try in water), and when you take off* add one tablespoonful of 
vanilla. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 97 

TAFFY. 

MRS. A. V. SMITH. 

One pint of white sugar, one-half pint of water, one tablespoon- 
ful of vinegar, piece of butter size of a walnut, one teaspoonful of 
vanilla put in just before it is done. Boil twenty minutes after 
commencing to boil. 

OAROMELS. 

MISS FANNY KUSSELL. 

One cup of, hot water, one cup of chocolate (grated), two cups of 
brown sugar, one-half cup of butter. If the chocolate is not sweet 
use three cups of sugar. Stir constantly until the mixture hardens, 
try it as you would ordinary taffy in cold water. 

OAROMELS. 

MRS. J. FULTON. 

Three pounds of brown sugar, one-half pound of grated choco- 
late, one and a half cups of milk, lump of butter the size of an 
egg. Boil like taffy. 

ANOTHER FOR SAME. 

One cup of molasses, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one and 
a half cups of grated chocolate, a piece of butter size of a hickory 
nut, and flavor with vanilla. Boil like taffy. 

MRS. H.'S CANDY. 

One pound of white sugar, one-half cup of vinegar, one-half cup 
of water, one-half teaspoonful of cream of tarter. 

EGG-NOGG. 

Take the yolks of sixteen eggs, and twelve tablespoonfuls of pul- 
verized loaf-sugar, beat them to the consistency of cream ; to 
this add two-thirds of a grated nutmeg, and beat well together ; 
then mix in a half pint of good brandy or Jamaica rum, and two 
wine glasses of Madiera wine. Have ready the whites of the eggs 



98 THE housekeeper's friend. 

beaten to a stiff froth, and beat them into the above described mix- 
ture. "When this is all done, stir in six pints of good rich milk. 
There is no heat used. Egg-nogg made in this manner is digestible 
and will not cause headache. It makes an excellent drink for 
debilitated persons, and a nourishing diet for consumptives. 

EGG-NOGG. (No. 2.) 

Beat separately the yolks and whites of six eggs, stir into the 
yolks sufficient powdered loaf-sugar to make it pleasantly sweet, 
beat them until very light, and flavor with a little lemon-juice, and 
nutmeg. Beat in six tablespoonfuls of brandy. Boil a quart of 
thin cream or new milk. Fill the goblets half full of the sugar 
and eggs, after stirring in the beaten whites just before puttiug into 
the glasses. Put a teaspoon in each goblet, and place them on a 
waiter so they can be distributed immediately after the milk is 
poured in. Pour the boiling milk into a pitcher, and fill up the 
goblets with it as you hand them around. Stir the milk and egg 
well together before drinking. 

ROMAN PUNCH. 

Grate the yellow rinds of two lemons and one orange on a pound 
of sugar ; squeeze over the juice and let it stand until well dissolved. 
Strain and add half a bottle of champagne, and the beaten whites 
of four eggs. It is nice frozen, but may be served without anything 
else than a little finely broken ice. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Take a pan of clabber, pour off the whey, and put the clabber 
into a pointed muslin bag to drain. Let it drain twelve hours ; 
then put the curd into a dish, and mash it until very smooth with 
a spoon, pouring over it some rich cream until the consistency of 
thin mush. Season with salt to your taste, and set it away in some 
cool place until tea time. Serve in a glass dish and sprinkle a little 
pepper over the top. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 99 

SOAP. 

To one box of concentrated lye take three gallons of rain water, 
and four and a half pounds of grease ; boil two hours and ten min- 
utes, then add one-half pint of salt, then let it boil thirty-five min- 
utes. Stir in gradually one-half ga^on warm rain water ; draw 
the fire away from under it, and let it stand in the kettle over night. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Take seventeen pounds of potash, pour on it a bucket of warm 
water, add from twenty to twenty-two pounds of grease, then an- 
other bucket of warm water. Stir it up, and as it thickens, add 
water by degrees until the barrel is full. An old brine barrel is 
the best to use. 

HARD SOAP. 

Ten pounds of soda-ash, five pounds of unslacked lime, fifteen 
gallons of soft water. Put it all into a boiler, and stir until it is 
dissolved well. Boil one hour then pour it off* into a tight barrel. 
When well settled dip it off* clear, and to every gallon of lye, add 
ten pounds of grease. The soap may be finished in three hours. 

To Make White-wash that will not Rub Off. 

Mix up half a pail full of lime and water ready to put on the 
wall ; then take one gill of flour and mix it with water ; then 
pour on it boiling water sufficient to thicken it ; pour it while hot 
into the white-wash ; stir all well together, and it is ready for use. 

TO REMOVE RUST FROM STEEL. 

Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on. In forty-eight 
hours rub with finely powdered unslacked lime until the rust disap- 
pears. , 
TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Take two parts of soda, one part of pumice-stone, and one-part 
finely powdered chalk ; sift through a fine sieve, and mix with 
water. Rub over the marble, and wash off" with soap and water. 



100 THE housekeeper's FRlENt). 

TO CLEAN PAINT. 

Squeeze flannel nearly dry out of warm water, and dip in whit- 
ing and apply. With a gentle rubbing it will remove grease and 
other stains. Wash in warm water, and rub dry with a soft cloth. 

CURE FOR FELONS. 

Boil up in any iron vessel of sufficient capacity, (say four or six 
quarts,) enough yellow dock root to make a strong liquor. When 
sufficiently boiled, and while the liquor is as hot as can be borne by 
the hand, cover the kettle with a flannel cloth to keep in the heat 
and steam, hold the hand or finger affected under the cloth, and in 
the steam, and in five minutes the pain will cease. If it should 
return, heat the liquor, and do as before. 

TO REMOVE PAINT. 

Chloroform will remove paint from a garment or elsewhere, when 
benzine or bisulphide of carbon fails. 

TO CLEAN CARPETS. 

To one gallon of water, add two tablespoonfuls of spirits of harts- 
horn. Wring out canton flannel cloths in this mixture, and rub 
the carpet with the damp cloth. See that the cloth is not too wet, 
and dry the carpet oW with a dry cloth. 

TO DESTROY VERMIN. 

Hot alum water will destroy red or black ants, or any other in- 
sects. Take two pounds of alum, and dissolve it in three or four 
quarts of boiling w^ater. Let it stand on the fire until the alum 
disappears, then apply it with a brush while nearly boiling hot. 
Lyon's roach powder is also very good ; it can be obtained at almost 
any drug store. It will exterminate the small red ants completely. 

GLOSS FOR STARCH. 

Take two ounces of gum arabic powder, put it into a pitcher, and 
pour over it a pint of boiling water (according to the degree of 



illSCELLANEOUS; 101 

Strength you desire), and then having covered it let it stand all 
night. In the morning pour it carefully from the dregs into a clean 
bottle, cork it and keep it for use. A tablespoonful of gum water 
stirred into a pint of starch that has been made in the usual man- 
ner will give to lawns (either white or printed) a look of newness, 
when nothing else can restore them after washing. This will also 
give sufficient gloss to gentleman's shirt bosoms. 

AMMONIA FOR HOUSE-CLEANING. 

For washing paint put a tablespoonful in a quart of moderately 
hot water, dip in a flannel cloth, and with this merely wipe off the 
wood work, no scrubbing is necessary. For taking grease-spots from 
any fabric, use the ammonia nearly pure, and then lay white blot- 
ting paper over the spot, and iron it lightly. In washing laces, put 
twelve drops in a pint of warm suds. To clean silver, mix two tea- 
spoonfuls of ammonia in a quart of hot soap-suds, put in your silver, 
and wash it, using an old nail brush for the purpose. It will also 
clean hair brushes beautifully, simply shaking the brushes up and 
down in a mixture of one teaspoonful of ammonia to one pint of 
hot water ; rinse them with cold water, and stand them (bristle 
down) in the wind, or in a hot place to dry. For washing finger 
marks from looking glasses or windows, put a few drops of the am- 
monia on a moist rag, and make quick work of it. If you wish 
your house-plants to flourish put a few drops of the spirits in every 
pint of water you use in watering. It is good to cleanse the hair, 
always rinse it off with pure water. It should be purchased by the 
pound or half pound, as in that way it can be gotten much cheaper. 

To Prevent Blue from Fading. 

MRS. H. STURGES. 

To one gallon of tepid water put one tablespoonful of salt, and 
the same of sugar of lead. Put in whatever you want to wash and 
let it soak fifteen or twenty minutes. Then wash and hoil if you 
choose. 



102 iTHE housekeeper's friend. 

A Good Way to Wash Black Calico. 

Make a kettle of flour starch, allow it to cool sufficiently to bear 
the hand, then pour it over your calico. Let it stand a short time, 
wash out thoroughly, then rinse in two clear waters, hang up to 
dry, and it will look as well as ever. 

To Prevent Calico from Fading. 

When a calico needs washing dip it in salt water, and let it dry 
before washing. Once is sufficient, and should be done the first 
time it is washed. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

One pint of unslacked lime, one pint of salt, one gallon of water, 
pack the eggs in stone jars, and after the mixture has settled, pour 
it over them. Set them where they will not freeze ; they will keep 
for months, and be as fresh as when first put up. Be careful to 
always select the freshest and nicest eggs you can for putting up. 

Cement for Broken China. 

Take a very thick solution of gum arable, stir into it Plaster of 
Paris until it is a thick paste, apply it with a brush to the fractured 
edges, stick together, and in three days it cannot be broken in the 
same place. 

TO CLEAN BOTTLES. 

Wash the bottle, then cut a raw potato in small pieces, put them 
into it with a little cold water, shake well, rinse them out, and thev 
will be very clear, 

WHITENING THE HANDS. 

Take a cake of brown Windsor soap, scrape it in flakes, add one 
tablespoonful of cologne, one of lemon juice ; mix thoroughly, put 
into a mould and allow to dry. 

TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Take a flannel cloth, dampen it, then dip it in soda and rub it on 
the marble. Then wash off* with clear rain water. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 103 

CLEANING SILK. 

Pare three Irish potatoes, cut into thin slices, and wash them 
well. Pour on them a half pint of boiling water, and let it stand 
until cold ; strain the water, and add to it an equal quantity of 
alcohol. Sponge the silk on the right side, and when half dry, iron 
it on the wrong side. The most delicate colored silks may be 
cleansed by this process, which is equally applicable to cloth, velvet, 
or crape. A black kid glove boiled in water until it becomes a kind 
of soft glue, and sponge the silk with it, ironing it on the wrong 
side is a very good way too. There is an article called^ soap bark, 
which can be procured at the druggists' which is splendid for any 
kind of black woolen goods, making them as fresh as when new. 

TO CLEAN STRAW MATTING.. 

Never use soap on matting. When you want to clean it, wash 
with a cloth dipped in clean salt and water. This prevents it from 
turnning yellow. After washing wipe dry at once. 



HINTS TO YOUNG LADIES. 

"from the ugly-girl papers." 

"Two simple chemicals should appear on every toilet-table : the 
carbonate of ammonia and powdered charcoal. No cosmetic has 
more frequent uses than these. The ammonia must be kept in glass 
with a glass stopper from the air. French charcoal is preferred by 
physicians, as it is more finely ground, and a large bottle of it 
should be kept on hand. In cases of debility, and all wasting dis- 
orders it is valuable. To clear the complexion, take a teaspoonful 
of charcoal well mixed in water or honey for three nights, then use 
a simple purgative to remove it from the system. It acts like cal- 
omel with no bad effect, purifying the blood more effectually than 
any thing else. But do not omit the aperient, or the charcoal will 
remain in the system. After this course of purification, tonics may 
be used." 



104 TBE housekeeper's frienb. 

FOR THE TEETH. 

"A very agreeable deotrifice is made from an ounce of myrrh' in 
fine powder, and a little powdered green sage, mixed with two 
spoonfuls of honey. The teeth should be washed with it every night 
and morning. Spite of all that is said against it, charcoal holds the 
highest place as a tooth-powder. It has the property, too, of oppos- 
ing putrefaction, and destroying vices of the gums. It is most con- 
veniently used when made into paste with honey.*' 

AN INDISPENSABLE POWDER. 

A trouble scarcely to be named among refined persons is profuse 
perspiration, which ruins clothing and comfort alike. For this it 
is recommended to bathe frequently, putting into the water a cold 
infusion of rosemary, sage or thyme, and afterward dust the under- 
garments with a mixture of two and a half drachms of camphor, 
four ounces of orris-root, and sixteen ounces of starch, the whole 
reduced to impalpable powder. Tie it in a coarse muslin bag, (or 
one made of flannel is better if you wish to use it on the flesh,) and 
shake it over the clothes. This makes a very fine bathing powder." 

TO KEEP THE HAIR IN CRIMP. 

"Ladies are annoyed by the tendency of their hair to come out 
of crimp or curl while boating, or horse-back riding. Apply the 
following bandoline before putting the hair in papers or irons : A 
quarter of an ounce of gum-tragacanth, one pint of rose-water, five 
drops of glycerine ; mix and let stand over night. If the tragac- 
anth is not dissolved, let it be for a half a day longer ; if too thick 
add more rose-water, and let it be for some hours. When it is a 
smooth solution, nearly as thin as glycerine, it is fit to use. This is 
excellent for making the hair curl. Moisten a lock of hair with 
it, not too wet, and brush round a warm curling-iron, or put up in 
papillotes. If the curl comes out harsh and stifle, brush it round a 
cold iron or curling-stick." 

POWDER FOR THE SKIN. 

"If young ladies will use powder, the most harmless is refined 
chalk, powder is often a protection and comfort on long journeys, or 



HINTS TO YOUNG LADIES. 105 

in the city dust. If the pores of the skin must be filled one would 
prefer clean dust to begin with. A layer of powder will prevent 
freckles and sun-burn when properly applied. In all these cases 
it is worth while to know how to use it well. The skin should be as 
clean and cool as possible to begin. A pellet of chalk, without any 
poisonous bismuth in it, should be wrapped in coarse linen, and 
crushed in water, grinding it well between the fingers. Then wash 
the face quickly with the linen, and the wet powder oozes in its fin- 
est state through the cloth, leaving a pure white deposit when dry. 
Press the face lightly with a damp handkerchief to remove super- 
fluous powder, wiping the brows and nostrils free. This mode of 
using chalk is less easily detected than when it is dusted on dry." 

TO REMOVE FRECKLES. 

"Take ^nely powderrd nitre (saltpetre), and apply it to the freck- 
les by the finger moistened with water and dipped in the powder. 
When perfectly done, and judiciously repeated, it will remove them 
efiectually without trouble. Rough skins from exposure to the 
wind in riding, rowing or yachting trouble many ladies who will be 
glad to know that an application of cold cream or glycerine at night, 
washed off* with fine carbolic soap in the morning, will render them 
presentable at the breakfast-table. Another method is to rub the 
face, throat and arms well with cold cream or pure almond oil be- 
fore going out. With this precaution one may come home from a 
berry party, or a sail without a trace of that ginger-bread effect too 
apt to follow these pleasures." 

PREPARATION FOR ROUGH SKIN. 

"A delicate and effective preparation for rough skins, eruptive 
diseases, cuts or ulcers, is found in a mixture of one ounce of gly" 
cerine, half an ounce of rosemary-water, and twenty drops of car- 
bolic acid. In those dreaded irritations of the skin, occuring in 
summer, such as hives or prickly heat, this wash gives soothing 
relief. A solution of this acid, say fifty drops to an ounce of the 
glycerine, applied at night, forms a protection from musquitoes. 
Use the pure crystalized form it is far less overpowering in its fra- 
14 



106 THE housekeeper's friend. 

grance than the common sort, Those who dislike it too much to 
. use at night, will find the sting of the bites almost miraculously- 
cured, and the blotches removed by touching them with the mix- 
ture in the morning. Babies and children should be touched with 
it in a reduced form. Two or three drops of otter of roses in the 
preparation will improve the smell so as to render it tolerable to 
human beings though not so to musquitoes. " 

A SPLENDID HAIR TONIC 

"A strong tincture for the hair is made by adding half an ounce 
of oil of mace to a pint of deoderized alcohol. Pour a spoonful 
or two into a saucer ; dip a small stiff brush into it, and brush the 
hair smartly, rubbing the tincture well into the roots. On bald 
spots, if hair will start at all, it may be stimulated by friction with 
a piece of flannel until the skin looks red, and rubbing the tincture 
into the scalp. This process must be repeated three times a day for 
weeks. When the hair begins to grow, apply the tincture once a 
dav until the growth is well established, bathing the head in cold 
water every morning, and briskly brushing it to bring the blood to 
the surface." 

A Simple and Harmless Hair Dye. 

"It is said that the water in which potatoes have been boiled with 
the skins on forms a speedy and harmless dye for the hair and eye- 
brows. The pareings of potatoes before cooking may be boiled by 
themselves, and the water strained off for use. To apply it the 
shoulders should be covered with cloths to protect the dress and a 
fine comb dipped in the water drawn through the hair, wetting it 
at each stroke, until the head is thoroughly soaked. Let the hair 
dry thoroughly before putting it up. If the result is not satisfact- 
ory the first time, repeat the wetting with a sponge, taking care not 
to discolor the skin of the brow and neck. No hesitation need be 
felt about trying this, for potato-water is a safe article used in the 
household in a variety of ways. It relieves chilblains if the feet 
are soaked in it while the water is hot, and is said to ease rheumatic 
gout." 



HINTS TO YOUNG LADIES. 10? 

"Never use a fine comb to the head, but keep the scalp clean 
with a solution of ammonia and water, used several times a week, 
and then give the head a thorough brushing afterwards. A child's 
head especially is too tender for the use of a fine comb. The pro- 
portions are two or three spoonfuls to a basin of water. Apply 
with a brush and dry well with a soft towel." 

REMEDY FOR CORNS. 

"When corns are troublesome make a shield of buckskin leather 
an inch or two across, with a hole cut in the center the size of the 
corn ; touch the exposed spot with pyroligneous acid which will eat 
it away in a few applications. Besides this a strong mixture of 
carbolic acid, and glycerine is good, say one-half as much acid as 
glycerine. Turpentine may also be used for corns and bunions. A 
weaker solution of carbolic acid will heal soft corns between the 
toes. A French medical journal reports the cure of the most re- 
factory corns by the morning and evening application with a brush 
of a drop of a solution of the perchloride of iron. It states, that 
after a fortnight's continued application, without pain, a patient 
who had suffered martyrdom for nearly forty years was entirely 
relieved." 

FOR CUTANEOUS ERUPTIONS. 

"Those who have the misfortune to contract cutaneous disorders, 
or from scorbutic affections or the fumes of certain medicines, each 
and any of which are liable to produce roughness and inflamation 
of the skin, will be glad of a speedy and certain cure for their 
affliction. It is a wash of sulphurous acid (not sulphuric) diluted 
in the proportion of three parts soft water to one of the acid, and 
used three or four times a day until relieved. Sub-rosa all para- 
sites on furniture, human beings or pets are quickly destroyed by 
this application." 

A Remedy for Moth or Hepatic Spots. 

"They are a sign ot deep seated disease of the liver. Taraxacum, 
the extract of dandelion root, is the standing remedy for this, and 



108 THE HOUSEKEEPER'S FRIENt). 

the usual prescription is a large pill four nights in a week, some 
times for months. To this may be added the free use of tomatoes, 
figs, mustard-seed, and all seedy fruits and vegetables, with light 
boiled meats, and no bread but that of coarse flour. Pastry, pud- 
dings of most sorts, and fried food of all kinds must be dispensed 
with by persons having a tendency to this disease It may take six 
weeks or even months to make any visible impression on either the 
health or the moth patches, but success will come at last. One- 
third of a teaspoonful of chlorate of soda in a wine-glass of water, 
taken in three doses before meals, will aid the recovery by neutral- 
izing morbid matters in the stomach. There is no sure cosmetic 
that will reach the moth patches. Such treatment as described, 
such exercise as is tempting in itself, and gay society, will restore 
one to conditions of health in which the extinction of these blotches 
is ij.ertain." 

COLOGNE. 

"A fine cologne is prepared from -one gallon of deoderized alco- 
hol, to it add one ounce of oil of lavender, one ounce of oil of 
orange, two drachms of oil of cedrat, one drachm of oil of neroli, 
or orange flowers, one drachm of oil of rose, and one drachm of 
ambergris. Mix well, and keep for three weeks in a cool place. 

COLOGNE. 

MRS. S. GILBERT. 

White whisky one gallon, attar of rose ten drops, musk ten 
grains, pil of lavender one-half ounce, oil of lemon one-half ounce, 
oil of bergamot one-half ounce, four Tonka beans cut fine. Let it 
stand ten or twelve days, shaking it daily. 



COMMON COLOGNE. (To Use as a Toilet Water.) 

"Oil of bergamot, lavender and lemon each one drachm ; oil of 
rose and jasmine each ten drops ; essence of ambergris ten drops, 
spirits of wine one pint. Mix and keep well closed in a cool place 
for two months, when it will be fit for use." 



RECEIPTS TOO LATE FOR CLASSIFICATION. 109 

COLD CREAM. 

" Melt together two ounces of oil of almonds, and one drachm 
each of white wax and spermaceti ; while warm add two ounces of 
rose-water, and orange flower water half an ounce. Nothing bet- 
ter than this will be found in the range of toilet salves." 



Receipts Sent in too Late for Classification. 



ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

MRS. A. PALMER. 

One pound of beef suet, (chop fine), one pound of flour, one 
pound of currants, one pound of raisins (stoned), one nutmeg, one 
dozen eggs, one-quarter pound of citron, one small teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half pint of sweet milk. After mixing well the above 
ingredients, put into buttered bowls ; dip a cloth into boiling water 
and sprinkle well with flour. Tie the cloths carefully over the 
bowls to prevent the water from getting into the pudding. Put the 
bowls into boiling water which must be kept boiling for six hours. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

MISS FARLEY, BOSTON. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca in water over night. Stir 
this into one quart of boiling milk, and just before taking from the 
fire, add the beaten yolks of three eggs, one cup of sugar and a lit- 
tle salt, add the flavoring before cooling. Just before serving heap 
on the whites of the eggs beaten together with some sugar ; a little 
cream and wine to flavor. 



110 tilE HOUSEKEEPER'S PRIRJft). 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

MISS FARLEY. 

One cofFee-cup of Indian meal, one of rye flour, one-half teacup- 
ful of molasses, little less than one pint of milk, onp-half teaspoon - 
ful of saleratus stirred into the molasses, a little salt. Steam four 
and a half hours, then place in the oven and brown. 

MIXED BREAD. 

Take one quart of corn meal, and pour boiling water over it until 
it is well scalded. When cool enough to bear the hand in it, put 
in half a cup of molasses, half a pint of yeast, and two quarts of 
brown flour. Knead well, let it rise, then bake in a steady oven 
four hours at least. Bake slowly at first. 

BOILED BREAD. 

MRS. NYE. 

(To be eaten warm, with roast meats, at dinner). Two cups of 
brown flour, two cups of corn meal, one cup of molasses, one quart 
of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda. Boil in a mould three hours 
closely covered. 

BRIDGET CAKE. 

Take as much dough as you would for a loaf; makes no differ- 
ence whether it is sponge or after it is first worked. One cup of 
butter, two cups of brown sugar, four eggs, one cup of raisins, one 
cup of currants, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves, one 
grated nutmeg, flour enough to stiffen. Let it rise and then bake. 

CHOCOLATE ICE. 

MRS. NYE. 

Take one quart of milk, one-quarter of a quart of chocolate 
grated, yolks of five eggs. Let it boil, and when cool put into it 
sugar and vanilla to taste and freeze. 



RECEIPTS TOO LATE FOR CLASSIFICATION. Ill 

FROZEN PEACHES. 

ST. LOUIS COOK BOOK. 

Take soft ripe free-stone peaches, peel and smash them through a 
colander, sweeten very sweet as the freezing makes them lose some 
sweetness. Then to make ice cream, add equal quantities of cream, 
with sugar sufficient for both. All fruits can be made in the same 
way, adding more or less sugar. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

ST. LOUIS COOK BOOK. 

Make a boiled custard of one quart of milk, one teaspoonful of 
corn starch, two eggs, one cup of sugar ; press three pints of straw- 
berries, or as many more as y©u please through a sieve ; make the 
juice very sweet, add it, with one quart of cream, one cup of sugar, 
the whites of two eggs well whipped, to the custard, just as you put 
it into the freezer. This makes one gallon of cream. 

LINIMENT FOR SPRAINS. 

MP^S. A. PALMER, 

One ounce oil of wormseed, one ounce of hemlock, one ounce of 
sassafras, one ounce of cedar, one ounce of red pepper, one ounce 
gum camphor, three pints of alcohol. This liniment Ls good for 
man or beast. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 



The following receipts came after the book had gone to press* 
consequently they are not paged nor indexed : 

KATE'S LEMON PIE. 

MRS. MEREDITH, OMAHA. 

Pear the yellow rind from one lemon, then grate the remainder, 
put it in a bowl and add water to make one-half pint. Take the 
white of one egg and yolks of four, beat the eggs and add three- 
quarters of a cup of sugar, mixed with one tablespoonful of butter 
and an even tablespoonful of flour ; mix like cake, then add the 
lemon and water. Make a nice crust, and bake it (first prick it to 
keep from puffing up). Put the mixture quickly on it and place in 
the oven until done. When baked spread over it the whites beaten 
with a little sugar, flavored with any extract you prefer, place 
again in the oven and dry a few moments. If the lemons are 
small use two. 

CATSKILL PUDDING. 

MRS. MEREDITH. 

Two eggs, one tablespoonful of butter, one tablespoonful of 
sugar, one-half teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
sifted into a quart of flour. Drain the syrup ofl* of fruit, (straw- 
berries are excellent,) mix the fruit in the batter, and steam or boil 
in a mould two hours. Sweeten the juice and pour over when serv- 
ing. Cream also used with it after the juice is put on makes it 
very nice. 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLING. 

MRS. MEREDITH. 

Core and pare the apples, put some sugar inside. Make a crust 
as for baking powder biscuit, only use more shortening, roll the 
crust thin, and roll each apple in a piece ; put them in a pan, and 
when the crust gets a little baked pour over the dumplings hot 
water in which sugar and butter are melted, and let them bake well 
(say about one hour.) There should be a juice around it Avhen done. 
Eat with cream. You can make the crust of bread dough if you 
wish. 



THE HOUSEKEEPERS FRIEND. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of chopped suet, one cup of 
chopped raisins, one cup of molasses, three cups of flour, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves; steam 
in a floured bag four hours. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

MISS MILLS, OMAHA. 

Scald one pint of cream or milk, stir into it while on the fire the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, and one cup of grated cocoanut ; watch 
closely for fear it will curdle, add a little salt, and sugar to' the 
taste. If the milk is not rich add a piece of butter. When baked 
spread icing over the top. 

FLUMMERY. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

Take one cup of tart jelly, one cup of sugar, the white of one 
egg, beat the whole hard for fifteen minutes. Eat with cream. 

ROLLY POOLY PUDDING. 

MRS. XL, OMAHA. 

Make a paste of one-half tea-cup of butter, one quart of flour, 
two teaspooufuls of yeast powder, and water sufficient to roll it out, 
roll it into a piece a half yard long and six inches wide, spread on 
it any kind of jam or stewed fruit, roll it up, wrap a cloth around 
it, and steam for two hours. 

SAUCE. 

One grated lemon, o)ie cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
pint of boiling water, one teaspoonful of flour. 

GINGER BREAD. 

MRS. M. 

One pint of N. O. molasses, one- quarter pound of butter, three 
eggs w^ell beaten, one tablespoouful of soda or saleratus dissolved in 
one-half cup of warm water ; make a batter like cake by stirring 
in flour to the proper con.sistency. 



ADDITIONAL RECEIPTS. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

A LADY IN OMAHA. 

One cup of butter, two cups of brown sugar, five eggs, four cups 
of flour, one cup of sour cream, one teaspoouful of soda dissolved 
in the cream, one pound of stoned raisins, one pound of citron cut 
fine, one pound blanched almonds, one teaspoonful of mace, one each 
of cloves, allspice and cinnamon, one nutmeg. Bake two hours in 
a slow oven. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One cup of butter beaten to a cream, two cups of powdered sugar* 
one cup of sweet milk, one small teaspoonful of soda in the milk, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream of tarter in the flour, one cup of corn 
starch, two cups of flour, the whites of six eggs, one tea-cup of 
hickory nut meats. 

FEATHER CAKE. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, one tabiespoonful of butter, one and 
a half cups of flour, one and a half cups of milk, one teaspoonful 
of yeast powder. Flavor to the taste. 

SNOW CAKE. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

One-third of a tumbler of corn starch, fill up the tumbler with 
flour, one and a half tumblers of powdered sugar, whites of ten 
eggs beaten stiff, one even teaspoonful of cream of tarter ; mix the 
flour, corn starch and cream of tarter together, put it in with the 
egg, and add one teaspoonful of vanilla and one of lemon. Bake 
in a quick oven three-quarters of an hour. 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. P., OMAHA. 

Whites of ten eggs, one coffee-cup of fl'.uir, one and a half cups 
of powdered sugar, juice of a small lemon, one-half teaspoonful of 
cream of tarter, one teaspoonful of extract of lemon. Put the 
sugar, cream of tarter and flour together, then stir in the eggs, and 
bake at once. 



THE HOUSEKEEPERS FRIEND. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

Two teaspooDfuls of lard rubbed into two quarts of flour, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, dessert spoonful of salt, one pint of warm 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of yeast ; let rise, make out in rolls, let 
rise again and bake. 

CORN GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of salt, three eggs^ 
one pint of corn meal, one tablespoonful of molasses or sugar. 

WAFFLES. (Excellent.) 

MRS. MEREDITH, 

Four eggs, one pound of flour, one pint of milk, four tablespoon- 
fuls of yeast, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of salt. Beat 
the eggs to a froth, put the butter into the milk, warm it until the 
butter melts, then let it cool, and add the milk, then the eggs and 
flour, stir in the salt and yeast ; let stand until light. Pour on 
well greased wafile-irons, bake on both sides by turning the irons ; 
butter and serve hot. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

Drain your oysters and wipe them dry, have ready for one can, 
five beaten eggs and some rolled crackers, dip the oysters first in 
the egg, then in cracker, do this twice, then put them to fry on a 
griddle with some lard, add salt and pepper. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

MRS. H., OMAHA. 

Drain your oysters perfectly dry in a colander, then put into a 
frying pan a half a tea-cup of butter. When hot throw in your 
oysters, and salt and pepper them ; toss them about in the pan, and 
serve hot ; adding a little mace. Do not use the liquor at all as 
there will be plenty from, the heating. 

CORN BREAD. 

MRS. C. W. POTWIN. 

One quart of sweet milk, one quart of sifted meal, two teaspoon - 
fuls of cream of tarter dissolved in cold water, one teaspoonful of 
salt, one tablespoonful of melted butter, three eggs well beaten 
tegether, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in hot water, and put 
in last. 



CONTENTS 



Soups. 

Page. 

Vegetable Soup 7 

Oyster Soup, without Oysters 7 

Pea Soup 8 

Tomato, (2) 8 

Oyster Soup. 8 

To Prepare Stock for Soup 9 

Vermicelli Soup .>.^ 9 

Noodle Soup 9 

Rich White Soup. : 10 

Rich Brown Soup 10 

Chicken Soup 10 

Fish. 

Baked Shad or White Fish 11 

To Boil Salt Shad or Mackerel U 

Fried Oysters 12 

Scalloped Oysters .12 

Oyster Pie ..12 

Spiced Oysters 12 

Scrambled Ovsters 13 

Cod Fish Balls 13 

Eggs. 

OmeletNo. 1 13 

OmeletNo. 2 14 

OmeletNo. 3 14 

Scrambled Eggs 14 

Scrambled Eggs, more simple 14 

Omelet 15 

Sauces for Meats. 

Drawn Butter 15 

Egg Sauce - 15 

Mint Sauce..... 15 

Yorkshire Pudding 16 

Celery Sauce 16 

Salads. 

Chicken Salad 17 

Lobster Salad 17 

Sweet-bread Salad •• „ 18 

15 



Potato Salad 18 

Ham Salad 18 

Chicken Salad Dressing 18 

Mayonnaise Dressing ., 19 

Prepared Mustard 19 

Meats, Poultry, &c. 

To Corn Beef 19 

VealPate 20 

Veal Loaf 20 

Veal Cutlets 20 

Sausage Meat 20 

Chicken Pudding ...•• 21 

A very nice way to Cook Chicken..21 

Chicken Croquetts, No. 1 21 

Chicken Croquetts, No. 2 21 

Old Fashioned Pot-pie 22 

Beef Alamode 22 

A Nice Breakfast Relish 22 

Chicken Pie • 23 

Beef Bouille 23 

Rolled Beef Steak 23 

jjaglj , 24 

French Hash 24 

Vegetables. 

Egg Plant ■ 24 

Corn Oysters. No. 1 24 

Corn Oysters, No. 2 25 

Green Corn Pudding 25 

Saratoga Potatoes 25 

Corn Pudding 25 

Salsify 26 

Salsify, boiled •• 26 

Sour Beans 26 

Cold Slaw 26 

Cold Slaw 27 

Spinach 27 

Macaroni 27 

Stuffed Tomatoes 27 

To Stew Tomatoes —27 

Onions 28 

Beets 28 



114 



CONTENTS. 



New Potatoes ...28 

Mashed Potatoes ..28 

Green Peas 28 

Cauliflower 29 

Squashes 29 

Winter Squash 29 

Parsnips 29 

Turnips 29 

Lettuce ..29 

Boiled Hominy. 29 

Fried Hominy ..30 

Small Hominy. 30 

To Boil Rice 30 

Fried Apples 30 

Macaroni without cheese 30 

Savory Cabbage 31 

A Good Way to Cook Onions 31 

Pickles and Catsups. 

Rough and Ready Pickle 31 

Cucumber Pickle, (3) .32 

Red Cabbage and Cauliflower 32 

Tomato Pickle 33 

Cucumber Pickle, extra nice 33 

Stuffing for Cucumber Mangoes-. .33 

Tomato Catsup 34 

Tomato Catsup, splendid 34 

Tomato Sauce 84 

Chow Chow 35 

Mixed Pickle 35 

Chili Sauce 35 

Spiced Peaches and Plums 35 

Peach Mangoes 36 

Spiced Goosberries ....36 

Chow Chow 36 

Onion Pickles 37 

Mangoes 37 

White Walnuts 37 

East India Pickle 37 

Watermelon, Sweet Pickle 38 

Higdon Pickle .38 

Bread and Biscuit. 

Yeast, (2) 39 

French Rolls 39 

Raised Biscuits 40 

Biscuit 40 

Maryland Biscuit (2) 40 

Cream Biscuit ...41 

Sponge Biscuit 41 

Bread ....41 

Parker House Rolls 41 

Puffs 41 



Pocket Rolls 42 

Indian Meal Rolls 42 

Brown Flour Rolls 42 

Soda Biscuit. No. 1 42 

Soda Biscuit No. 2 42 

Indian Corn Biscuit 43 

Rusk , 43 

Bread Cakes 43 

Muffins, No. 1 43 

Muffins, No. 2 43 

Rice and Flour Muffins. 44 

Corn Muffins 44 

Sally Lunn 44 

Sally Lunn, very fine 44 

Waffles 44 

Rice Waffles 45 

Drop Cakes 45 

Corn Meal Batter Cakes 45 

Corn Bread 45 

Corn Cakes 45 

Cream Cakes 46 

Flannel Cakes 46 

Brown Flour Mush 46 

Gems 46 

Diamonds. 46 

Graham Biscuit 47 

Brown Bread 47 

Boston Brown Bread. 47 

Graham Cup Cake 47 

Pies, Puddings and Desserts. 

Puff Paste 48 

Lemon Pie, No, 1. 48 

Lemon Pie, No. 2 48 

Mince Meat, extra 49 

Mince Meat 49 

Apple Custard Pie 49 

Potato Pie 49 

Pumpkin Pie 50 

Cocoanut Pie, (2) 50 

Marlborough Pie 50 

Dauphines 51 

Indian Pudding ..51 

English Pudding 51 

Lemon Pudding 51 

Queen of Puddings 51 

Cottage Pudding '. 52 

Brown Betty Pudding 52 

Bread Pudding 52 

Minute Pudding 53 

Tapioca Pudding 53 

Apple with Tapioca 53 

Chocolate Pudding 53 



Contents. 



115 



Apple Meringue, (2) 53 

Snow Pudding 54 

Suet Pudding 54 

Plum Pudding 54 

Plum Pudding, baked 55 

Plum Pudding 55 

Strawberry Short Cake 56 

Bevivo ^6 

Rice Meringue 56 

Spanish Cream 56 

Bohemian Cream ^57 

Charlotte Russe 57 

Omelet Souffle 58 

Rice Balls 58 

Apple Custard 58 

Fritters • 58 

Pound Pudding 59 

Baked Flour Pudding 59 

Boiled Custard 59 

Puff Pudding 59 

Cocoanut Pudding 60 

Orange Pie 60 

Wigwam 60 

Lemon Custard 60 

Ambrosia 61 

Rice Pudding 61 

Bombay Pudding 61 

Dutch Blanc-Mange 61 

Cocoanut Blanc-Mange 61 

Fruit Meringue 62 

Corn Starch Pudding 62 

Fuller Pudding 62 

Almond Custard 62 

Syllabub 63 

Ice Cream -63 

Lemon Ice 63 

Pudding Sauce. 

No: 1 63 

No. 2 64 

No. 3 64 

No. 4 64 

No. 5, cold sauce 64 

No. 6 64 

No. 7 64 

No. 8 64 

Brandy Sauce', hard 64 

Pudding Sauce 65 

Cakes. 

Fruitcake 65 

Fruit Cake, common 65 

Black Cake 65 



Washington Cake 66 

Carolina Cake.. 66 

White Cake 66 

White Mountain Cake 66 

Bride's Cake 67 

Raisin Cake 67 

Golden Cake 67 

Silver Cake 67 

Chocolate Cake 67 

Cocoanut Cake 68 

Lemon Cake 68 

Almond Cake 68 

Pound Cake, No. 1 68 

Pound Cake, No. 2 68 

Sponge Cake 69 

Bread Cake 69 

Cookies, (2) 69 

Cup Cake, (2) 69 

Currant Cake 70 

Cream Cake :.... 70 

Buckeye Cake 70 

Tea Cake, No. 1 70 

Tea Cake, No. 2 ,70 

Jumbles 71 

Jumbles Almond 71 

Macaroons 71 

Almond Cake 71 

Nut Cake 71 

Rough and Ready Cake 71 

Seed Cake 72 

Gentleman's Ginger Bread 72 

Scotch Cake 72 

Lemon Mixture for Cake 72 

Chicago Cake 73 

Lancaster Cake 73 

Ice Cream Cake 73 

Kisses 73 

Crullers, (3) ..74 

Doughnuts, (2) 74 

Soft Ginger Bread, (2) 75 

Ginger Snaps, (3) 75 

Jelly Roll 76 

Wafers 76 

Marble Cake, (2) 76 

Cream Cakes ■ ■ •77 

Cocoanut Macaroons 77 

Trifles - 77 

Cinnamon Wafers 77 

Sand Tarts 77 

Mrs. H's Jumbles 78 

One Egg Cake 78 

Mrs. Taylor's Ginger Cake 78 

Sugar Ginger Bread 78 



116 



CONTENTS. 



Icing. 

leing for Cake 78 

Boiled Icing 79 

Cold Icing 79 

Icing 79 

Jellies, Cordials, Wines, Preserves, 
&c. 

Wine Jelly 79 

Orange Jelly 80 

Brandy Peaches .80 

Brandy Peaches . . . .' 81 

Peach Marmalade 81 

Blackberry Cordial -81 

Cherry Cordial 81 

Blackberry Syrup 81 

Current Wine 82 

Blackberry Wine §2 

Raspberry Vinegar, (2) 82 

Strawberry Vinegar 83 

To Preserve Lemons 83 

Conserve Peaches 83 

Blackberry Jam 84 

To make Jelly of any kind quickly 84 

Orange Jelly 84 

Canned Peaches 84 

Pineapple Preserves 85 

Cranberry Jelly 85 

Brinks. 

Coffee ; 85 

Tea 86 

Chocolate 86 

Dishes For Invalids. 

Beef Tea 86 

Essence of Beef 87 

Mutton Tea .87 

Chicken Broth 87 

Vegetable Broth 87 

Panada 88 

Boiled Flour 88 

Toast Water 88 

Mulled Wine 88 

Caudle 89 

Gruel 89 

Oat Meal 89 

Bran 89 

Medical. 

Remedy for Diphtheria 89 

Remedy for Hoarseness or Loss 
of Voice —-90 



For Chronic Diarrhea 90 

Splendid Remedy for Dysentery. -.90 

Cure for Epilepsy 90 

New Treatment for Cancer 91 

Remedy for Toothache 91 

Cholera Mixture 91 

Sore Throat 91 

Neuralgia 92 

Milk as a Remedy 92 

Treatment in Scarlet Fever 93 

Receipt for Paregoric 93 

To Cure Chills and Fever 93 

To Break up a Cold. 93 

Sovereign Remedy for Ear-ache...94 

Pepper Tea 94 

Remedy for a Cough 94 

Remedy for Rheumatism 94 

Oranges as a Medicine 94 

To make a Mustard Plaster 95 

Treatment of Croup 95 

Children's Sore Mouth 95 

Another Remedy fer Scarlet Fe- 
ver 96 

Miscellaneous. 

Whitman's Taffy ....96 

Taffy 97 

Caromels, (3) 97 

Mrs. H's Candy 97 

Egg-Nogg, (2) 97 

Roman Punch 98 

Cottage Cheese 98 

Soap 99 

Soft Soap 99 

Hard Soap 99 

To make White Wash 99 

To Remove Rust from Steel 99 

To Clean Marble 99 

To Clean Paint ^ 100 

Cure for Felons 100 

To Remove Paint 100 

To Clean Carpets 100 

To Destroy Vermin 100 

Gloss for Starch 100 

Ammonia for House-cleaning 101 

To Prevent Blue from Fading... 101 
Good way to Wash Black Calico..l02 
To Prevent Calico from Fading.. 102 

To Preserve Eggs 102 

Cement for Broken China 102 

To Clean Bottles 102 

Whitening the Hands 102 

To Clean Marble .....102 



CON^EiffS. 117 

Cleaning Silks 103 i Cologne, [2] 108 

To Clean Straw Matting 103 j Common Cologne 108 

Cold Cream 108 

Hints to Young Ladies. 

For the Teeth 104 

An Indispensable Powder 104 

To keep the Hair in Crimp 104 

Powder for the Skin 104 

To Remove Freckles 105 

Preparation for Rough Skin 105 

Splendid Hair Tonic 106 

Simple and Harmless Hair Dye..l06 

Remedy for Corns 107 

For Cutaneous Eruptions 107 



Receipts sent in too Late for Clas- 
sification, 

English Plum Pudding 109 

Tapioca Cream 109 

Boston Brown Bread ...109 

Mixed Bread 109 

Boiled Bread 110 

Bridget Cake 110 

Chocolate Ice 110 

Frozen Peaches Ill 

A Remedy for Moth or Hepatic | Strawberry Ice Cream Ill 

Spots 108 I Liniment for Sprains HI 

Valuable Hints on Matching Carpets, Advertising Pages, 



LIST OF ADVERTISERS. 



John Bonnet, Jeweler. 

Joseph Burnett & Co., Flavoring Extracts. 

Burrough & Co., Furniture. 

Drs. W. J. & E. C. Chandler, Dentists. 

George R. Clements, Family Groceries. 

Mrs. J. K. Crumbaker, Millinery. 

Dooley & Co., Celebrated Yeast Powders. 

Samuel Ebert, Toys, Perambulators, &c. 

J. A. Filler, Carpets, Oil Cloths, &c. 

E. E. Fillmore & Co., Hardware. 

John Galigher & Co., Hats, Caps and Furs. 

W. A. Graham & Co., Drugs, Paints, Oils, &c. 

Alexander Grant, Dry Goods and Carpets. 

Howe Sewing Machine Co. 

W. H. Hurd, Books, Stationery, &c. 

Johnson & Abbot, Dry Goods. 

Jones & Abbot, Stoves, Fire Fronts, &c. 

McCann Bros. & Hazlett, flats, Caps, Fnrs, & Singer Sewing Machines. 

R. S. Mershon, Jeweler. 

H. D. Mud son & Sons, Music Dealers. 

Drs. Scott & Patterson, Dentists. 

H. M. Sedgwick, Photographer, " Smith's Art Studio," 

C. Stolzenbach, Crackers, Confectionery, &c. 

James R. Vansant, Millinery. 

J. D. Warner, Bee Hive Notion Store. 

H. C. Ward, Family Groceries. 

Zanesville Woolen Manufacturing Company. 



THE ADVERTISEMENTS. 



Not alone for the commercial advantage which may be derived, 
but because of a generous willingness to share the expense of publi- 
cation, have so many of the representative business men of Zanesville 
made use of the pages of "The Housekeeper's Friend." Adver- 
tisements have only been solicited from those whose names are syn- 
onymous with honorable dealing. 

It is scarcely necessary to add, that all may place entire confi- 
dence in the character of the advertisers, no less than in the quality 
of the goods here offered for sale ; this indorsement applying equally 
to manufacturers at a distance with those of our own city. 

J. W. B. 



URITY. 



)ULL |§EIGJi[T. 



lULL MRENGTH, 



C^^^D 




No Housekeeper who desires light, sweet and nutri- 
tious cookery, should be without this 
excellent Baking Powder. 



FIRST MADE 1858. 



The original determination of the manufacturers of this Powder 

to make an article which sliould be, in every way, reliable 

and healthful^ should be put up full weight, exactly as 

represented, and should be of standard strength, 

has never been deviated from notwithstanding 

the host of inferior powders with which 

the market has been flooded. 



Ask your grocer for it ; and do not be put off with other 
brands represented as good as Dooley's. 



Doohy & Brother >, 



jvsiw Tosjs:. 



CULINARY GOODS 

W. A. GRAHAM & CO., 



Z; -^ a:^T E S T7- 1 1-, Xj IE 



omo- 



Corn Starch, 
Tapioca, 
Rice Flour, 
Farina, 



Chocolate, 
Gelatine, 
Oat Meal, 
Irish Moss, 



Pure Salad Oil, 
Pure Cream Tartar, 
English Soda, 
Spices. 



WE call the attention of housekeepers to the above articles kept 
constantly in stock, and recommend them as the purest and 
freshest in the market. Knowing the large adulteration of Cream 
of Tartar, Baking Soda and Spices, we have taken special pains in 
the selection of these goods. Our Cream of Tartar and Baking 
Soda is perfectly pure, and will be found much cheaper and more 
reliable than the so-called baking powders which are largely adul- 
terated with flour, starch, &c. Our spices are all ground expressly 
for our retail trade, and are full strength. Our loug experience 
and the advantages gained by large purchases, enables us to sup- 
ply our trade with the best goods in the market, at the lowest pos- 
sible rates. 

We ask special attention to a line of 

CHOICE FLAVORING EXTRACTS, 

which we are now manufacturing. Having sold them for the past 
year with success, we offer them to our trade, and guarantee them 
to be equal to Burnett's in strength and flavor, and much lower in 
price. 

W. A. GRAHAM & CO. 



Why is it? 



That so many people suffer from protracted derangements of health, which 
have their unsuspected origin in the DENTAL ORGANS? 

BECAUSE they fail to appreciate the importance of their teeth until 
decay, diseased gums, and consequent suffering impel them to DON' T 
NEGLECT YOUR TEETH • ^^v ^ 

If you hare lost your natural ones, have them replaced at once by 
Artificial Dentures. Your organization is imperfect without them. If 
your food be not thoroughly masticated it can not be properly assimi- 
lated, and hence produces general derangement of stomach and system. 

DENTAL APHORISMS. 

Always consult an experienced and skillful dentist. 

Cheap Dentistry is the worst possible economy. 

Experience and skill are the result of time and labor, and should 
receive a remuneration equivalent to their worth. 

Remember there are degrees in skill, and difference in the value of 
materials. 

The slightest^appearance of decay should receive immediate attention. 

Decay is insiduous, and often requires the careful examination of the 
dentist to detect it. 



W. J. CHANDLEK, D. I). S. E. C. CHANDLER, D. D. S. 

DES. W. J. & E. C. CHANDLER, 

Attend to all branches of the profession at their rooms, 

No. 112 Main Street, ZANESVILLE, 0. 

JOHN M. BONNET, 

DEALER IN 

FIJVM WATCHfES. 

CLOCKS, JEWELRY AND SILVERWARE. 
156 Main Street, Zanesville O. 



Special attention given to Watch Repairing and Fine Engraving, 



MATCHING CARPETS. 

BY A CARPET SALESMAN. 

The practice has become almost universal with carpet dealers, to 
cut aud match their customer's carpets. In all the large cities, the 
labor of tacking down, has also been removed from the hands of 
the buyer ; men being employed by carpet houses to do this special 
work. 

There are tiines, however, when every housekeeper has more or 
16 



STEINWAY & KNABE 




Acknowledged to be the Leading First Class Pianos of the 
World, and are everywhere spoken of as the 

tankrtr d ^mWmtt 

The best Pianos in the Market, at a Medium Price. 

HAINES BROS' PIANOS, 

Thoroughly Well Made and Durable, and many other Good Pianos can 
be seen at 

MUNSON'S MUSIC STORE, 
108 Main Street, _ _ _ _ Zanesville, Ohio, 

And are for sale at the lowest prices, and on the easiest terms, either for cash, or on monthly 
or quarterly payments. Send for Catalogues and Price Lists, free to any address. 

C. STOLZENBACH, 

Manufacturer of all kinds of 

Crackers, Br ^ad. Cakes, 

AND 

CONTFECTIONTERY. 

Also Wholesale Dealer in Fruits, Nuts, &c. 

135 Main Street, ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 

(matching carpets, continued.) 
less carpet fitting to do ; and these hints are offered in the hope that 
the path of domestic life, will in this respect, be made smoother. 

In the first place, no receipt can be given for cutting a carpet 
without w^aste, unless the figure be adapted to the size of the room. 
This is so true, that if you take the length of the room in inches, 
and divide it by the length of the figure (also expressed in inches) 
you can readily tell what the waste if any, will be. 

To make this more intelligible, I will suppose your room is fif- 
teen feet long. This, of course is one hundred and eighty inches. 



JJardwarI^] 

ZfiJ^EaVILLE, - - OHIO. 



LADIES' FIHE SCISSORS, 

^, ^h 5, 5^, and 6 inch. 

BUTTONHOLE CUTTERS, 

FINE POINTS, SNIPE PATTERN. 

HOUSE SHEARS, 

7, 8, 9 and 10 inch. 

PLATED KNIVES, Mediiim. 
IVORY HANDLE KNIVES, Medium. 
HARD RUBBER HANDLE TABLE KNIVES, 
Hard.RulDter Handle TABLE KNIVES & FORKS, 

The most durable Handle ever invented. 

FINE IVORY CARVERS AND FORKS, 
RUBBER HANDLE CARVERS, 
IVORY AND RUBBER HANDLE STEELS, 
LADIES' POCKET KNIVES, 

In Ivory, Shell and Pearl. 

Keif Fine Assoftment of MediomTllBLECyTLm 

-BatiL Sricls, genuine imported, Ssipclio, Hand. Sa<po- 
lio, lEiisirLg- S-o-i^ Sto-v-e IPolisiL, cScc, <icc. 

^. ^. JPIZZMOHJS & CO. 

Large Head Carpet Tacks, Black and Tinned Carpet Leathers. 



JNO. GALIGHER & CO. 

WHOLESALE AND EETAIL DEALERS IN 

HATS, CAPS, FURS, 

Straw Goods and Gloves, 



14-1 Main Street, 



JNO. GALIGHER, 
C.W.FLETCHER, 



1876. $2.50 JPJSH DAY 

ZANE HOUSE, 

Cor. Main and Fifth Streets, 

ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 




Mrs. A. E. COOK, Proprietress. 

JAMES % ymnmr. 

Wholesale and I^etail 0ealer in 

ILLINERY *^OODS, 

NOTIONS, DRESS TRIMMINGS, &c. 
154 Main St., 0pp. Zane House, ZANESVILLE, O. 

(matching carpets, continued.) 

The figure in your carpet (i. e. the distance from one point to the 
next similar point) is two and one- half feet, or thirty inches ; this 
will go six times into one. hundred and eighty of course leaving no 
remainder ; consequently no waste. Had the figure of your carpet 
measured three and one-half feet you would by the same process 
have found that four times the length of the figure would lack 
twelve inches of being long enough, and five times the length of the 
figure would be thirty inches too long. As you cannot spoil your 
carpet by cutting it too short, you must stand the loss of two and 
one-half feet on each width of carpet, if you buy that pattern. 



ALEX. GRANT, 



^ 
V 

& 



'S^ 




O V. 



^, 



C\c^ <.V0V^^ ^^ 







OOfi 












lool ^ 



86 SaJN ItPBT: 



^ 



§A]pSY)(LLB. 



B£:e: heuu^je" store:. 
J. D. WARNER, 

«^ iL ^-=^_ ^ Ladies' 



Notions 



^ ^ 



AND 

^^ CjtENTS 




AND 

Fancy 

Goods. _^ 

Constantly receiving the Latest Novelties in 

^eck Ties, Collars and Cuffs, Fancy Jewelry, 
Hosiery, Gloves, &c^ 

Always in stock a large variety of Hamburg Enabroideries, 
Threads, Braids, Fine Soaps, Perfumeries, Merino and Gauze Un- 
derwear, Fancy Worsteds, Canvas, &c., &c. 

13 and 15 Fifth Street, Maginnis Block. 



H. C.WARD, 

Grocer & hovisioaer, 

Flower Pots, Fruit Jugs, &c. 
f5 South 3rd Street, 

zAjv^Esrizzu, o. 

(matching carpets, continued.) 

It is very amusing to hear some people declare that they can 
always cut a carpet without waste, by simply cutting a piece off at 
the beginning ; just as though the cutting off had'nt to be done with 
each succeeding strip. Waste is waste, whether it occur at the be- 
ginning or at the ending. 

Where carpets have no "up and. down," the rule is, to cut through 
the center of the figure. You can then reverse the roll and run back 
to the other end. If this first end has been cut through the center 
of the figure, you have no trouble even though the carpet contains 
a double figure. 



C. H. SCOTT, D.D.3. A; PATTERSON, Jr., D.D.S. 

PVER ;^LEX. pRANX'S 3tORE. ^ANESYILLE, p. 



J. ^. FILLER, 

DEALER IN 

Carpets, Oil Cloths, Mings, Wall Papers, Window Shades, 

^To. S3 Iivd:a.i3:i Street, 
^S. H. Gary, Salesman. ZANESVILLJE, O. 

BURROUGH & CO. 

Manufacturers and Dealers in Every Variety of 

PARLOR SUITS, 

Chamber Sets, Dining Room Sets, Cabinet Ware, Chairs, &c. 

No. 57 MAIN STREET, 

N E\A^S, Fine stationery, PAHi¥ €§©»!» 

ooToEBERT.a^ 

CROQUET from 98 cents to $10. 

Children's Carriages, 60 different styles, from S8 to $50. 

EBERT'S, Opposite Zane House. 



Standard Extracts 

FOR COOKINOI PURPOSES. 



*^ Pre-eminently superior .'' Parker House, Boston. 

''The best in the world/' Fifth Avenue Hotel, New York. 

''Used exclusively for years/' Continental Hotel, Philadelphia. 

"We find them the best." Southern Hotel, 8t. Louis. 

'We use them exclusively.'' Sherman House, Chicago. 

"We find them excellent." Occidental, San Francisco 



The superiority of these extracts consists in their perfect purity and 
great strength. They are warrauted free from the poisonoasoils and 
acids which enter into the composition of many of the factitious 
fruit flavors now in the market. They are not only true to their 
names, but are prepared from fruits of the best quality, and are so 
highly concentrated that a comparatively small quantity only need 
be used. 



MRS.J. K. CRUMBAKER, 



DEALER IN 



9 



Kid Gloves, Corsets, Parasols, &c., 

Nos. 36 & 110, Main Street, 

ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 



(matching carpets, continued.) 

In case the carpet has an "up and dow^n" then you must begin 
each strip at precisely the same point, unless, the figures alternate, 
as in the case with almost all Brussels, Wilton, Axmiuster, and 
carpets of like grade. In case the figures do thus alternate, the 
plan is to cut from both ends of the roll, being careful to have the 
roll begin and end in difl^erent figures. For instance, you are cut- 
ting a Brussels carpet, containing a bunch of autumn leaver, and a 
group of pansies. It would be a violation of taste to have a row of 
the leaves straight across the room, and a row of the pansies. They 
should of course run diagonally. Consequently, if you have seven 
strips of carpets to cut, numbers 1,3, 5 and 7, must begin with the 
leaves, and 2, 4 and 6 with the pansies. 



i-zs. 



JOENSON k ABBOT, 



173 MAIN STREET, 



RETAIL DEALERS IN 



Of the latest styles. Splendid Stock of Black Silks, also Shawls, 
Table Linens, Napkins, Towels, Curtain Nets, &c. Bleached and 
Unbleached Sheetings, all widths— 4-4, 5-4 6-4, 7-4, 8-4, 9-4, 10-4. 
Buying our goods strictly for cash, we are enabled at all times to 
make the Lowest Prices. Everything marked in Plain Figures. 
Please look at our stock. 

JOHNSON & ABBOT 



17 REASON'S WHY YOU SHOULD PURCHASE THE 

HOWE SEWING MACHINE. 

1 . Beauty and excellence of stitch, alike on both sides of the fabric sewed- 

2. 8tren<z;th, beauty and durability of seam, that will neither rip nor ravel- 
8, Complete control over both threads. 

4. A perfectly uniform tension in the the shuttle, which does not vary 
from a full to an empty bobbin- an objection so common to other machines. 

5. An automatic self regulating take up, that prevents missing of stitch- 
es in crossing heavy seams. 

6 Jt contains the material for its own repair. 

7. Sews equally well with any kind of thread. 

8. It has less wearing points than any other. 

9. A hemmer that will make any width of hem or fell. 

3 0. Braiding the most complicated patterns, with any width or kind of 
braid. 

If A quilter that will adjust itself to any thickness of material. 

12. Tucking any fabric without injury or pucker. 

18. Sewing the finest fabric without injury or pucker, and the heaviest 
material with the greatest ease. 

14. Compactness, simplicity and durability. 

15. Ease of operation and management. 

16. It draws up a stitch as it is drawn up by hand. 

17. The presser foot is easily set out of the way when'you set a needle 
or put under work; 

wmm mm^m mAmmtmm ^®* 

No. 110 Main Street, - - - ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 

J. M. BRUNSON, Manager. 



VVILLIAM H. HURD, 




m STATION^ER, M 




tintttf 



Opposite Odd Fellows' Hall, 



(matching carpets, continued.) 

In cuttiDg high-priced Carpets, something is often ^gained" by 
taking off a width, and then a recess or corner piece ; and some- 
times when the whole carpet must either be cut a few inches too 
short, or else a couple of feet, too long, it will.be found economical 
to border it. Indeed, it may safely be said that no carpet in neu- 
tral colors is complete without a border of blue, scarlet,^ crimson or 
green ; whichever may most elegantly harmonize with the furnish- 
ing of the room. 

There will sometimes be met with in all collections ^of ingrain 
carpets, a pattern containing a third or intermediate figure, which, 
to be properly matched, requires that you should cut between the 
two principal figures. "There is no rule without an'exception," 
and this is the only circumstance I know of in which it Is safe^to.do 
otherwise than cut through the center of a figure in carpets having 
no "up and down." 




Hats, Caps, Furs, 



■f ^A^l^lB®^ I 



% 



AND LADIES' AND GENTS' 

runt^iaiti^c coons 



w 
X 

tin 

o 
o 

I — ( 
00 




r 

> 
o 

> 



THE LARGEST STOCK OF 



For Ladies, Gents and Children, of any house in the city. 

ALWAYS ON HAND. 

Special orders taken for shirts. A Full line of White and Fancy 
Hose and Half Hose. Scarfs, Mufflers, Ties, Bows, &c. 

Agents for the Singer Sewing Machine. 



JVo. 136 Main Street, 



ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 




ESTEY ORGANS, 

AND 

THE BEST IN THE WORLD, 

Are sold by us at Wholesale and Retail. We also have in stock, 

Burdette, Prince, Smith, Needham, Shoninger, New England, 

Taylor &; Farley, 
And other makes of Organs, which we can sell at lowest prices to those 
who prefer them to the Estey or Mason & Hamlin. Call and see the differ- 
ent styles and makes of 



f ob,g-a:n's. f 

Our Stock is now complete, and prices lower than ever. None sell lower. 
We sell Organs on monthly or quarterly rental payments. Every Instru- 
ment fully warranted. 

Circulars and Price Lists free to any address. 

H. D. IVEUNSON ^k. SON95, 

ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 
GEO. R. CLEMENTS, 

RETAIL GROCER 



Fine Teas, strictly pure; Fine Roasted Coffees, a Com- 
plete Assortment of Canned Goods, Spices, 
Extracts and Fancy Goods. 

/7 Soia/i Third Street, - - ZjijY£JSTILL£;, OSJO. 

(matching carpets, continued.) 

Many persons imagine that a large figure is more wasteful than 
a small one. Not necessarily so. The figure may be five feet long 
— as is often the case in Tapestry Brussels — and if your room is 
seventeen and one-half feet, you are all right ; because three and a 
half times the length of the figure will just fill the room. In cut- 
ting ingrains and 3-plys it is not necessary to allow anything for a 
nnrrow hem, as the elasticity of the carpet will be sufficient. I 
would recommend, however, to allow enough for a generous hem, 
as it is easier to drive a tack in this kind . 




ZANESVILLE 



If you want Woolen Goods that are made of WOOL, 

be sure to ask for those of our manufacture. 

We produce Flannels of all kinds; 

White and Colored, Plain and 

Plaid, Light and Heavy. 








Our Yarns are full cut and full count, of every color and combin- 
ation, all shades in Jeans, and styles in Cassiraeres. Not a particle 
of shoddy or hair enters into the composition of our goods. Since 

''The Best are always the Cheapest/' 

the buyer will practice true economy, by using our goods. 

See that our trade mark is on every label, and ask for Zanes- 
ville Woolens. 



^ 



®. 



(§), 



BPT BY i\J[>L ^H(ST-(iLiVSS i|TORBS 



Sfniih*s Art Siudm, 

No. 101 Main Street, - - - ZANESVILLE, OHIO. 



FINE PHOTOGRAPHS, ANY SIZE, 



.A. IT ID 



iFis^onyc 



LIFE OR OLD PICTURES 



Especial Attention Given to Making Childrens' Pictures. 



All Work Guaranteed Satisfactory. 

H. 3VE. SEDGtTATZCK, 



OPERATOR. 



JOSEPH BURNETT & GO'S 

WORLD RENOWNED 

Fiavorim^ Extracts 



SEE PREVIOUS ADVERTISEMENT. 



(matching carpets, concluded.) 

There remains only to point out a sort of chronic mismatch in 
Tapestry Brussels. I refer to that occasioned by the mechanical 
inaccuracy of the colors. For lack of a better name I call it the 
*'wolf " Manufacturers have labored for years to overcome this 
obstacle, but with varying success. If you have a width showing 
the "wolf " pretty badly, turn it over and dampen the wrong side. 
This will shrink the linen back — flax and hemp being susceptible 
to moisture — and will be found sufiicient as a general thing. Do 
not pucker the seams of such a carpet in the vain hope that the 
"puckers" will tramp out, for they won't. Better make a compro- 
mise in the pattern. 



<^*^^^ 




^f^sb 



fftt 



DEALER IN 



^ 



^A^ATCHES,!- 



ht Mitl JtmU^t 



AND 



GOLD CHAIN. 






K) z 



I 




o ^ 



1^ 



SUITABLE FOR 



,NN)(VEI(_SARY Ap §UIDA^L glFTS, 



SpEciAi.. Attention pivEN to 



DESIGNING AND ENGRAVING 

MONOGRAMS. 



Odd Fellows' Building, 



iANBSVIlLB, iHIO. 



Jones & Abbot 

zanesvUjLE, OHIO. 



V 







Page 18. 
cup," instea 

Page 31. 
"Savory Cal 

Page 36. 
instead of " 

Page 77. 
"one cup of 


ERRATA. 


ne quarter 

instead of 

De "strew" 

outside," 


"Salad Dressing"should be"o 
.d of "one quarter pound." 

Should be "Savoy Cabbage," 
bbage." 

2nd. line from top. Should 1 
stew." 

"Cream Cakes," "For the 
sugar should be added." 



