IPT 



OR 



INFORMATION FOR THE MILLION. 



An Invaluable Collection of Practical Receipts, 
Household, Family, Domestic, Medicinal, and Miscellaneous, 

With advertisements of First ClaSS houses giving description, 
and price of useful articles needed in every family. 



PRICE 25 CENTS. 



iso^M'-^ 



x/' published by 

FARRELL&Co., 

371 Broadway, Brooklyn, N. Y, 

1876 



c- 






Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1877, by 
W. H. Farrell, ^^ 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



TO THE READEE. 



In preparing this little book, our aim has been to give a few 
of our choice receipts. We have previously sold them singly 
charging for the same ten cents, of which we sold over 20.000., 
Now; for the benefit of those who have purchased single receipts 
and the many thousands who are daily in want of these Valua- 
ble Receipts we have compiled this book, feeling confident that 
a thorough perusal will give entire satisfaction, and that the work 
small and unpretentious in appeiirance, will be carefully pre- 
served, and rejjarded as a reliable source of information. 






ij^^£;x 





PageX 


Apple butter, 


26 ^Black-walnut "stains" 


Addition, rapid 


17 




Ammonia in the house, keep 


48 




Air beda in the morning, 


44 




Apparel, fire-proof 


34 




Ants, to destroy 


32 




Aethma, to cure 


8 


> 



Page. 
42 



Bouquet, to keep a 

Books, to remove ink on 

Butter, apple 

Brushes, to clean 

Burns and scolds, 

Bunions, to cure 

Boils, to cure 

Boots waterproof, 

Bedbugs, 

Blackberry wine, 

Brains, overworked 

Beer, Ottawa 

Beer, ginger 

Black silk dress, to restore a 

Bouquet, jockey club 

Bleeding at the nose, to stop 

Beds in the morning, air 

Black Bilk, to renovate 





\ Corsets, 


13 




\ Cologne water, 


26 




) Caramels, chocolate 


26 




^ Catarrh, to cure 


18 


34 


^ Cholera mixture, 


18 


32 


) Corns, 


14 


26 


) Cough remedy, 


10 


32 


> Carpets, to clean 


32 


18 


^ Candle to burn all night, a 


34 


20 


* Cotton dresses, to set the color of 


40 


22 < 


Clam chowder. 


36 


24 ^ 


Cocoa-nut candy, 


42 


40 ^ 


Cleanliness, 


46 


38 ; 


Cough, to cure whooping 


10 


44 ) 


Complextion beautifier, 


13 


28 ( 


Chapped hands. 


16 


28 S 


Covers, to clean sofa 


32 


26 \ 
20 ) 


Clocks, 


46 


16 I 






44 ( 






42 







Pag?.; 
Diphtheria, to cure 12 ^ 

Dropsy, to cure 10 , 

Drunkenness, cure for 10 ^ 

Dre>8es, to set the color of cotton 40 
Dandruff, ^^ 

Dictionary, ^'^ 

Dress, to restore a crumpled black silk 26 



for 



Eyes, cure for sore 



Furniture polish, 

Felons to cur ) 

Eever and Ague, remedy 

Freckles, t^ r move 

Fire-proof, to render apparel 

Fly poison, 

Fruit, when to eat 

Fabric, tfl remove grease spots from 

Feet, noxious smell from the 

Floral g^iide, 

Flower and Vegetable seeds 

Furnaces, 



Ginger beer. 

Gloves, to clean 

Grease from silk. 

Glossy shirts. 



kid 

to remove 



Hair, Preservation of the 

Hair dye, 

Hands, chapped 

Hands, soap for whitening the 

Hydrophobia, cure for 

Headache, cure for sick 

Hints for young mothers, 

Household measures. 

Hair restorer, 

Hair brushes, to clean 

Hats, to clean 

Hemorrhages, 



14 



33 



Gold articles, polishing powder for 34 




Ink, black writing 
Ingrowing nails, remedy for 
Ink on bocks, to remove 



Linen, to restore scorched 
Laces, to clean 



Moths, remedy against 
Matting, to wash straw 
Mirrors, to clean 
Measures, household 
Tilothers, hints for 
Misfit carpets. 



NoBe, to stop bleeding at the 

Neuralgia, to cure 

Nails, remedy for ingrowing 



Ottawa beer, 
Overworked brains, 
Organs, 



Page.^ 




Page. 


16 ) 


Silk dress, to restore a crumpled 


26 


U ( 


Silk, to remove grease from 


28 


8 


Shirts, glossy- 


28 




Stammering, to cure 


20 




Scalds and Burns, 


18 




Sofa covers, to clean 


32 




^ Sunstroke, to prevent 


34 




Stoves, to close cracks in 


38 




Straw hats, to clean 


38 




> Scorched linen, to restore 


36 


28 


> Silk, to renovate black 


42 


44 ( 


Straw matting, to wash 


42 


37 ( 


Silver, to clean 


48 




Sick-headache, to cure 


10 




Sprains, 


46 



Pimples, 


12 


Polishing Powder, 


84 


Paint, milk 


40 


Paint from windows, to remove 


38 


Pulse, the 


46 


Pens, 


17 


Polish, furniture 


24 


Pianos, 


37 


Ponds extract, 


50 



Vinegar, cheap 36 



Washing fluid, 24 

Wounds, remedy for painful 16 

Whooping cough, to cure 10 

Warts, to remove 8 

Washing made easy 30 

Walnut stains, black 42 

Wax flower materials, 29 

Windows, to remove paint from 38 

Watches, 25 

Wine, lemon 30 

Wine, blackberry 38 



Rheumatism, to cure 
Reader, to the 
Reader, special to 



Yeast. 



3T£:CIA.L 20^£::4.^JE^, 



A few pages have been left blank purposely, so that yon could enter 
otlier Recipes. Also a blank in the index. 

If your druggist cannot prepare any Recipe, send to us the name of 
the Recipe, and the price your druggist may think it will cost, (include 
an additional 15 cents to pay for a bottle and postage) and we will be 
pleased to fill the order. Also anything advertised in the book, by 
sending the price named we will see that you get a first class article 
If the price is not named we will furnish you the same, or such infor- 
mation as you may desire. 

Address, 

Farrell k Co 

371 Broadway, BROOKLYN, NEW YORK. 



RECIPES. 



To Cure Dyspepsia. — The cure of this disease has been the 
study of the medical profession for the last half centuary. 
We have, with them, given the subject much thought, and 
from the best informatior, we are prepared to endorse(The 
new French Remedy). Dr. de Longueville's Gestiano as the 
most reliable remedy, for the certain cure of Dysyepsia, Indi- 
gestion and loss of appetite. Its best endorsement is its use by 
the medical faculty. See opposite page. 

Td Cure Asthma. — Elecampane, angelica, confrey and 
spikewood roots, with hoarhound tops; of each, one ounce; 
bruise and steep in one pint of honey. Dose, a tablespoonful 
taken hot every few minutes until relief is obtained; then, sev- 
eral times daily until a cure is effected. 

Remedy for Ingrowing Nails.— Take a piece of sponge and 

make it as solid as leather, by wetting and then winding string 
very tightly round it and drying it thoroughly. Of this cut 
a small pyrmidal piece, less than a grain of rice; this insert be- 
neath the nail, and secure it by strips of adhesive plaster, ap- 
plied longitudinally, to avoid comj)ression. The sponge soon 
becomes moist and swollen, keeping the nail from the irritated 
flesh. Any granulations should previously be destroyed with 
trong nitric acid. 

To Remove Freckles- — 1 ounce of lemon juice, borax and 
rose water, mixed. Eub on at night, and in the morning bathe 
with soft water ; no hard water should ever be used, if you value 
your complexion. 

To Remove Warts. — Tincture of cantharides, with some 
drops of iodine; apply to the warts with a small brush or a 
little stick, tlu'ee or four times a day. in a few days the warts 
will disappear. 



Tot Sale by 

DRUGGISTS 




EVERYWHERE. 

(Trade Mark.) 
Tlie only known Effective Remedy 

For tlie Ceitain Cure of 

DYSPEPSIA. INDIGESTION, 

and 

LOSS OF APPETITE. 

Contaius no Curative Properties for 
any other Diseases. It is not a Patent 
Medicine, but a Stan lard Remedy, and 
has been used for many years by the best 
Medical Faculty of Europe with perfect 
success. It is largely used in all the 
principal hospitals for the cure of the 
above diseases. 

500 Oases of Chronic Dyspepsia cured 
in the last four months of 1876 in New 
York City and surroundings, to any of 
whom, by kind permission, we refer. 

Price, $1.00 per 8 oz. Bottle. 

Address: De Granby&Co., 

[Sole A§rent** *®r U« S.,] 

88 MAIDEN LANE, New York City. 



10 



To Cure Dropsy. — A tea made of chestnut leaves and drauk 
in the place of water, will cure the most obstinate case of dropsy 
in a few days. 

To Cure whooping Cough. — Take plantain leaves; wash and 
bruise them well; now strain through a cloth, and sweeten with 
honey; for an adult one tablespoonful is a dose. 

Cough Remedy. — Boil one ounce of flaxseed in a quart of 
water, for half an hour; strain and add to the liquid the juice 
of two lemons, and half a pound of rock candy. If the cough 
is accompanied with weakness and a loss of appetite, add half 
an ounce of gum arable. Set this to simmer for half an hour, 
stirring it occasionally. Take a wine-glassful when the cou^h 
is troublesome. 

To Cure Drunkenness. — A mixture made up as follows, and 
taken in quantities equal to an ordinary dram, and as often ;.s 
the desire for strong drink returns, will cure the worst case o.' 
drunkenness: Sulphate of iron, five grains; peppermint water, 
eleven drachms; spirits of nutmeg, one drachm. 

This preparation acts as a tonic and stimulant, and partialy 
supplies the place of the accustomed liquor, and prevents the 
absolute physical and moral prostration that follows a sudden 
breaking off from the use of stimulating drinks. It is to betaken 
in quantities equal to an ordinary dram, and as often as the 
desire for a dram returns. 

To Cure Sick-Headache. — Magnesia, fifteen grains: solution 
of potassa, fifteen drops ; compound tineture of senna, one drac- 
hm; compound infusion of senna, six drachms: syrup of ginger, 
one drachm: compound infusion of orange peel, half an ounce. 
Mix Taken at a draught as an aperient. 



Cure for Diphtheria — It is simpiy the use of sulphuric acid, 
of which four di'ops are diluted in three-fourths of a tumbler 
of water, to be administered to a grown person and a smaller 
dose to children, at intervals. The result will be a coagulation 
of the diphtheritic membrane and its ready removal by cough- 
ing, When not advanced to a nearly fatal termination , a recov- 
ery maybe expected. 

Pimples. — Take a teaspoonful of oatmeal, cook in three table- 
spooufuls of water half an hour, then strain through a thin cloth, 
and apply with a soft sponge three times a day for two or three 
months. This should be washed off as soon as thoroughly dry. 

It will cure pimples on the face, unless caused bv a diseased 
stomach. 

Cure for Hydrophobia. — Take two tablespoonfuls of fresli 
chloride of lime, mix it with lialf a pint of water, and with this 
keep the wound constantly bathed and frequently renewed. 
The clorine gas possesses the power of decomposing this tre- 
mendous poison, and renders mild and harmless tliat venom 
against whose resistless attack the artillery of medical science 
has been so long directed in vain. It is necessary to add that this 
wash should be applied as soon as possible after the infliction of 
the bite. 

Bemedyfor Fever and Ague.— Peruvian bark, two ounces; 

wild tree bark, one ounce; cinnamon, one teaspoonful; sulphur, 
one ounce; port wine, two quarts. Let stand a day or two. 
Always buy the Peruvian bark snd pulverize it. as most ready 
pulverized articles are adulterated, this is the reason why more 
cures are not performed by it. Dose, a wine-glassful every two 
or three hours a day until all is U3C(":. 




PET DRAWING SLATE. 



Just out. Cheaper than any other. 

Copies in Drawing and Writing. 
Writing Copies in English and German. 

A perfect graduated ruler with each Slate. 

The Slate can be used for ordinary chool or ^'^"^l^^^^'^^^^^^l 
well. Drawing Apparaius can be detached easily, and if Slate becomes 
broken, re-adjuated to any other Slate. 

Mailed F'ree /or 25 Cents. 

JOHN D EMACS, Sole Manuf r, 

114 William Street, N. Y, 



14 



Cure for Sore Byes.— Disolve a quarter of a pound of Ep- 
son salts in a quart of cold spring water, and take one wine- 
glassful every night before retiring. Bath tlie eyes as often as 
possible with the solution (keeping some of it in a separate bottle 
for that purpose) ; the oftener the eyes are bathed the better. 
Thepatient should not use either spirituous or malt liquors, as 
this would tend to inflame the eyes, and counteract the effects 
of tKe medicine 

Cure Felons. — As soon as discovered take some spirits of 
turpentine in a cup, dij) the finger in it, and then hold the hand 
near a hot fire till dry ; then diq it in again, and repeat for fif- 
teen minutes, or till the pain ceases, the uext day, with a sharp 
knife, pare olFthe thick skin, and you will find something like 
n honey-comb filled with clear water; open the cells, and the 
fellon is gone. If the felon is to far advanced for terpentine, 
oil of origanum, treated iu the same way. will cure. 

To Cure Corns. — Soak the feet in warm water, then with a 
sharp instrument pare off as much of the corn as can be done 
without pain, and bind up the part with a piece of muslin or 
linen, thoroughly saturated with sperm oil, or, what is better, 
the oil which floats upon the surface of mackerel or herring. 
After three or four days the dressing may be removed by scrap- 
ing, when the new skin will be found of a soft and healthy tex- 
ture, and less liable to the formation of a new corn. 

To Cure Neuralgia. — Make a poultice and tea from our 
common field thistles, The leaves are macerated and used on 
the parts affected as a poultice, while a small quanity of the 
leaves are boiled down in the proportion of a quart to a pint, 
and a small wine-f^lass of the decoction drank before each meaL 



16 

Liquid Hair Dye. — Hydrosulpliuret of ammonia, 1 ounce ; 
solution of potash, 3 drams; distilled water, 1 ounce. Mix and 
lable solution No. 1. Nitrate of silver, 1 dram; distilled water, 
2 ounces. Mix and label solution No. 2. To be kept in separate 
bottles. Brush the first solution over the hair for a minute 
or two, then brush over the second solution, a comb being each 
time used to allow the liquid to come in contact with every hair. 
If the color be not sufficiently dark, repeat the process. 

To Stop Bleeding at the Nose.— If the finger is pressed firmly 
upon the little artery which supplies blood to the side of the face 
affected, the result is accomplished. Two small arteries, branch- 
ing up from the main arteries on each side of the neck, and pass- 
ing over the outside of the jaw-bone, supply the face with 
blood. If the nose bleeds from the right nostril, pass the finger 
along th e edge of the right jaw till the beating of the art ery is 
felt. Press hard upon it, and the bleeding will cease. Continue 
the pressure for five minutes, until the ruptured vessels in the 
nose have time to contract. 

Eemedy for Painful Wounds. — Take a pan or shovel with 

burning coals and sprinkle upon them common brown sugar, and 
hold the wounded part in the smoke. In a few minutes the 
pain will be allayed, and recovery proceeds rapidly. 

Chapped Hands. — When you have washed your hands, and 
while they are still wet, rub on them a little honey, and then 
dry them, taking care to leave tha honey on, and not rinse it 
off before drying the hand. 

Soap for Whitening the Hands.— Take a wine-glassfnll of 

ean de cologne, and another of lemon-juice; then scrape two 
cakes of brown Windsor soap to a powder; and mix well in a 
mold. Wnen hard, it will be an excel ent soap. 












ifesSif'ji 


1 




1 


JOSEPH GILLOTT'S : 
STEEL PENS. 

Sold by all dealers throughout the World. 




-MoroccoHu^, GiU Edges, 



138 8c 140 GRAND ST., NEW YORK. 




RAPID 



ADDITION . 

Wo&derful Invention! 



ARTofAddingFignres 
from Left to Kight: 
or from Middle either 
way: or Six Columns at 
one time ! Done as Quick 
as Thought! Sent to any 
Address on receipt of Price, 50 Cents. 

Agents Wanted. WILLIAM FURNISS, 

Post Office Box 1,149. Batavia, N. T, 



18 

To Cure Catarrh. — The severest catarrhal cokl can "be re- 
moved in about ten hours by a mixture of carbolic acid, ten 
drops; tincture of iodine and chloroform each 7^ drops. A few 
drops of the mixture should be heated over a spirit lamp, ia a 
test tube, the m3uth of which should be applied to the nostrils 
as soon as volatilization is affected = The opperation should be re- 
peated in about two minutes, when, after the patient sneezes a 
number of times, the troublesome symptoms rapidly disappear. 

Scalds and Burns. — On the instant of the accident, plunge 
the part under water. This relieves the pain in a second, and 
allows all hands to be composed. If the part cannot be kept 
under water, cover over with dry flour, an inch deep or more* 

In many instances nothing more is needed after the flour ; 
simply lei it remain until it falls off, when a new skin will be 
found under. In severer cases, while the part injured is und r 
water, simmer a leek or two in an earthen vessel, with half their 
bulk of hog's lard, until the leeks are soft, then strain through 
a muslin rag. This makes a greenish colored ointment winch, 
when cool, spread thickly on a linen cloth and apply it to the 
injured, part if there are blisters, let out the water. When, the 
part becomes feverish and uncomfortable, renew the ointment, 
and a rapid, painless cui*e vnll be the result, if the patient, in 
the meantime, lives excluisvely on fruits, coarse bread, and other 
light, loosening diet. 

Cholera Mixture. — for a safe and speedy relief for cholera, 
dysentery, diarrhea, colic, summer complaint, etc., take equal 
parts of tincture of rhubarb, spirits of camphor, tincture of cay- 
enne pepper, laudanum and essence of peppermint, mix 
well. Dose, ten to thirty drops every half houi' till relieved. 



20 

To Ctir9 Stani!113rill?. — The stammerer is made to mark the 
time in his speech, just as it is ordinarily done in singing. He 
IS at first to beat on every syllable. It is best at the'first lesson 
to read some simple composition. Like one of David's Psalms, 
striking the finger on the knee at every word, then read in a 
newspaper, beating on every syllable. 

We doubt if the worst case of stammering could continue 
long, provided the sufferer would read an hour or two every day 
with thorough practice of this simple art, observing the same in 
his conversation. 

To Cure Hheumatisin. — Iodine of potassium, two drachms ; 
carbonate of potassium, six drachms ; syrup of orange peel, eight 
drachms; tincture of orange, six drachms; Mix in one pint of 
water, take half a wine glass three times a day. in two table- 
spoons full of Lemon-juice, pour one in the other, and drink 
while effervesing. 

To Make Jockey Club Bouquet.— Essence eridis (lib to the 

pint)five ounces ; essence cassia, essence tuberose, essence 
ambergris, a. a. 10 drams; oil bergami, 1-2 dram; oil rosa, 
one dram ; pure spirits, 65 o.b., one pint. 

To Cure BunioftS. — If not inflamed, the best remedy is to put 
on the bunion first a piece of diachylon plaster and upon that 
a piece of leather, this last having a hole the size of the bunion 
cut in it. If inflamed, the bunion should be poulticed. If this 
doss not succeed, and matter should form, it must be treated 
as a boil, and the matter let out with a needle or lancet. The 
following is for an inflamed bunion :- Iodine twelve grains ; lard 
or spermaceti ointment, half an ounce. A portion about the 
size of a horsebean. to be rubbed gently on the bunion two or 
three times a day. 




DON'T NEGLECT 



The N E W 



TO SUBSCKIBE FOE 

YORK SCHOOL JOURNAL 

OF NEW YORK CITY. 
It is published weekly. It is long established, 

It is the most practical. It is the most popular. 

EVEEYTHING PERTAINING TO 
TEACHERS, SCHOOLS, 

EDUCATION, COLLEGES. 

For the practical teacher it is unexcelled; iis writers are in the fore 
front ofthe battle, toiling, yet successful teachers. Every department 
is represented from the Kindergarten to the College. Especially will it 
reflect with accuracy the methods of the New York City public and 
private schools. 

SKETCHES OF SCHOOLS AND TEACHERS. 

STORIES BY OUR BEST WRITERS. 

THE LEADING TEACHERS OF THE COUNTRY TAKE 

IT. 
It was furnished for several years to the teachers of the public 
schools of New York at the expense of the city, so highly was it 
prized. 

The modern methods of teaching, The freshest views, 
The most earnest thinking, The best ideas, 

All find a place in its pages. 

'P'RIC^:, ^2,00 'PB'R rJ5^ji^, 

TEY IT FOR SIX MONTHS FOR $1.00, 

The new Course of Study for the New York City Public Schools will be sent 

to every new subscriber. 
To all who send $2.00. An elegant book entitled, "School Receptions; Hott 
to niana,g:e them*" Containing fresh Dialogues and Recitationh will be sent. 




ADDRESS 



M. ZELLOGG, 

17 Warren St., New York. 



22 

Preservation of the Hair. — When the hair grows scantily, the 
following may be used sevarel times a week, morning, Eau-de- 
Cologne, two ounces; tincture cautharides, two ounces; oil rose- 
mary and oil of lavender, of each ten drops. When the hair has 
become thin from illness, or other causes, use the following : Mix 
equal parts of olive oil and spirits of rosemary, add a few drops 
of oil of nutmeg, and anoint the head very sparingly before going 
to bed. when actual baldness is commencing use the following 
pomade: Macerate a dram of powdered cautharides in an oimce 
of spirits of wine. Shake it well dui'ing a fortnight and then 
filter. Take ten parts of this mixture and rub it with ninty parts 
of cold lard. Add a little essence of bergamot. Rub this pomade 
well into the head night and morning. When the hair, after being 
natiu'ally luxurant, grows thin, without actually coming out 
in particles, use the following. Take of extract of yellow pe- 
ruvian bark, fifteen grains; extract of rhatany root, eight grains; 
extract of burdoch root and oil of nutmegs (fixed), of each two 
drams; camphor dissolved with spirits of wine, fifteen grains; beef 
maiTow, two ounces; best olive oil, one ounce; citron juice, half 
a dram; aromatic essential oil, as much as will make it fragrant; 
mix, and shake well. This is to be used every morning. 

Cure for Boils. — As soon as the culmination point of a boil 
makes its appearance, put a little camphorated alcohol in a sau- 
cer, and dip the ends of thefingers in it, rub the inflamed surface 
especially the c ntral part, repeating the operation eight or ten 
times for about half a minute; then allow the surface to dry, 
placing over it a slight coating of camphorated olive oil. Four 
applicatioiis will in almost all cases, cause boils to dry up and 
disappear, the opperation to be performed morning, noon and 
'^vening. 



To Make Sosts Waterproof.— Yellow beeswax, Bm-gundy 
pitch, and turpentiue, of each two ounces ; boiled linseed oil, 
one pint. Apply to the boot with the hauds before the fire till 
well saturated. 

Washing Fluid. — Three tablespoonfuls of soda, the same 
quantity of dissolved canjpbor(the same as kept for family use) 
to a quart of soft water, bottle it up and shake it well before 
useing. For a large washing, take four teaspoonfuls of the fluid 
to a pint of soap, make a warm suds and soak the clothes half 
an hour; then make another suds, useing the same quantity of 
soaj) and fluid, and boil them just fifteen minutes, then rinse 
in two waters. 

Black Writing Ink. — To make a good black writing Ink 
is as much an art as oil painting. That made by Thaddeus 
Davids & Co., occupies a period of over nine months in its 
manufacture, and by competent judges pronounced the best- 
In place of a recipe we strongly recomend the use of that man- 
ufactured by the firm named. Davids' Inks, in all colors, are 
sold by Stationers and Druggists throughout the world. 

Furniture Polish. — Scrape one pound of beeswax into shav- 
ings in a pan; add half a gallon spirits of turpentine, and one 
pint of linseed oil. Lit it remain twelve hours, then stir it well 
with a stick, into a liquid; while stirring, add one quarter pound 
shellac varnish and one ounce alkanet root* Put this mixture 
into a gallon jar, and stand it before the fire, or in an oven, for 
a week (to keep it just warm), shake it up three or four times 
a day. Then strain it through a sieve and bottle it. Pour about 
a teaspoonful on a wad of baize, go lightly over the face and 
other parts of mahogany furniture; then rub briskly with a sim- 
ilar wad diy. In three minutes it will produce a brilliant polish. 



PHADDEUS DAVIDS &m 



It has become so general a custom for thoughtless and 
unscrupulous persons to scatter broadcast to the public cheap 
compounds, misscalled *'Inks," that it lias become necessary 
to check an evil so great that it assumes the magnitude of little 
less than a crime. To abate or suppress this imposition, 

7?ie Messrs. Thaddeus Dayids d' Co., 

offer to the public, an ounce bottle of their best Ink fcr 

deeds and other important papers, Schools and for general use. 

Stationers, Druggists, Grocers and others keep it 

ASK FOR IT!! 



26 



Apple Butter. — To oue peck, quartered and cored sweet 
ajDjDles, use two quarts thick boiled cider from sour apples, 
and two or three quarts of water ; cook in a large brass kettle 
until very soft, placing an inverted tin, or a small qiumtity of 
clean straw, with all the leaves stripped off, or any thiug which 
the ingenuity may suggest, to prevent burning to the bottom. 
When well done, remove from the kettle and rub through a 
colander. This may be done while hot, with a potato masher. 
Clean the kettle immediately, before using again. Return to 
the kettle and cook half an hour, stirring almost constantly to 
make it smooth and prevent burning. Add allspice, cloves and 
cinnamon to the taste ; if it remains frozen it will keep all winter. 

Cologne Water. — A mixture of oils is made as follows; Oil 
of ueroli 2 p. , oil of rosemary 1 p. , oil of lemon 3 p. , oil of 
bergamot 1 p ., and oil of orange 3 parts. One kilogramme of 
this mixture is dissolved in 60 litres of alcohol (85 to 90 per cent) 
the solution heated to 60* C. (140' F. ) and subsequently filtered. 
The heating effects the blending of the perfnmes in a short time, 
which othei-wise takes place only after several months. 

Chocolate Caramel. — Not quite a half-pound of Baker's sweet 
chocolate, grated fine, aquarter of a pound of butter, a teacup- 
ful of cream. After allowing it to come to a boil, cook it for 
thirty minutes, stirring dilligently all the while. Put in one tabl- 
espoonful of extract of vanilla just before taking the candy off 
the fire. Spread thin on buttered dishes, and with a knife dip- 
ped in cold water mark off into small square cakes. 

To Restore a Crumpled Black Silk Dress.— Sponge the silk 

with spirits of wine, dilnted with a little w^ater. Then iron it 
on the wrong side, keeping a piece of muslin between the sur- 
face of the silk and the hot iron. 



^ 28 

To Remove Grease from Silk.— Take a lump of magnesia, 
and rub it wet over the spot ; let it dry, then brush the powder 
off and the spot will disappear; or, take a visiting card and 
separate it, and rud the spot with the soft internal part, and it 
will disappear without taking the gloss off the silk, 

GlOSSV Shirts. — Pnt a Httle common white wax in your 
starch, if you use any thin starch, be sure you use it warm, 
with collar starch it can be used quite cold. Now, then, about 
polishing shirts; starch the fronts and wristbands as stiff as 
you can. Always starch twice that is starch and dry; then 
starch again. Iron your shirts in the usual way, making the 
linen nice and firm, but without any attempt at a good polish; 
don't lift the plaits. Your shirt is now ready for polishing, place 
your bosom board into the breast of your shirt, dampen the 
front very lightly with a sponge, then take a polishing iron and 
polish gently with the beveled part, being careful not to drive 
the lineu into wavelike blisters. 

Ginger Beer. — Take white sugar, five pounds, lemon juice 
one gill, honey, half pound; bruised ginger, five ounces; water 
four and a half gallons. Boil the ginger thirty minutes in three 
quarts of thoAvater, when cold, put in the other ingredients and 
stirring., add the white of an ^^'^, well beaten, with a teaspoon- 
full of lemon essence. In four days bottle. 

Ottawa Beer. — Sassafras, allspice, yellow dock, wintergreen, 
1 ounce each ; wild cherry bark and coriander, 1-2 ounce; hops, 
1-4 ounce; molassas, 3 quarts, put boiling water on the ingre- 
dients, and let them stand for 24 hours Filter, and add 1-2 
pint of brewer's yeast. Leave again 24 hours, then put in an 
ice-cooler, and it is ready for use. 



* 



'© IjS* 



These Misfit Carpets are not always sucli from a mistake in measure- 
ment, nor are tliey mis-matches, as some supposes, but are Carpets which 
have been selected, frequently, by persons of exquisite taste and excell- 
ent judgement, but who have been prevented from taking them (after 
being cut and made) by circumstances which are occurring every day in 
life. Disappointment in receiving moneys promised, or securing houses 
expected, these and a thousand other causes contribute to keep up a con- 
stant supply of every kind of Carpet from the plainest to the richest of 
fabrics. Also when an importer has but two or three rolls left of a large 
importation it is sold to us at a discount of 25 to 30 per cent. The same 
is true in very many cases where large commission houses find it necess- 
ary to close out a lot of rolls of different patterns iu order to make set- 
tlement with consignees. These with bankrupt sales and (what is known 
to the trade as) job lots of every description are made an exclusive spec- 
ialty at the Misfit Carpet Depot. 

Send for a Price List. Address, 

J. A. BENDALL 

MISFIT CARPET DEPOT, 

112 & 114 Fulton Street, 

NSW VORK. 



Lemon Wine. — To make lemon wine pare off the rinds of 
six large lemons, cut them, and squeeze out the juice. Steep the 
rinds in the juice, and put to it a quart of brandy. Let it stop 
three days in an eartlien pot, covered, then squeeze six more, 
and mix with it two quarts of spring water and as much sugar 
as will sweeten the whole Boil the water, lemons and sugar to 
gether, and let it stand till cool. Then add a quart of any white 
wine you may choose, and the lemons and brandy ; mix them 
together, and run it through a flannel bag into some vessel. 
Xiet it stand three months ar.d then bottle. Cork the bottle 
well, and let it stand a month in a cool place. 

Washing Made Easy. — Go fo a druggist and buy one pound 
of soda ash and one lialf pound of lime; put it in two gallons of 
soft water, bring it to a boil, then strain. Put in a stone jar and 
set away for use. For a medium-sized washing use one pint to 
two or three pails of water; boiling the clothes one hour before 
rubbing. Be particular in rinsing. 

Remedy Against Moths. — As spring is about the season 
when careful housewives are busy putting away their furs and 
other articles for winter wear, the following remedy against 
moths may be usetul and timely. An ounce of giun camphor 
and one of powdered shell red pepper are macerated in eight 
ounces of strong alcohol for seven days, and strained. with 
this tincture the furs or cloth are sprinkled over, and rolled up 
in sheets. 

To Clean Kid Gloves. — Put a table-spoonful of milk in a sau- 
cer; take a piece of white flannel, wet it slightly in the milk, 
then rub on yellow soap, with it clean the soiled parts of the 
gloves. Always take a fresh plaee in the flannel, when all parts 
have been used, wa^h out. Use little moisture and much soap. 



32 

To Clean Sofa Covers. — If the covers of sofas and chairs are 
dirty they may be cleansed without being removed, by washing 
them over with a flannel; then, before they are dry, sponge them 
over witli a strong solution of salt and water, in which a small 
quantity of gall has been mixed. The windows of the room 
should be opened so as to secure a perfect drying, the colors 
and freshness of the articles will in this way be restored. 

Cleaning Carpets, &C. — One pint of ammonia, a pint and a 
half of water, and two ounces of borax. This mixture, if diluted 
a little, will clean silks without injuring them, and it is also an 
excellent hair tonic. It cleans the hair nicely. 

To Destroy Ants. — Fill small vials^ two-thirds with water, 
and add sweet oil to float on the water to within half an inch 
of the top. Plunge these upright in the ground, leaving only 
half an inch standing out, near the nest or run of the ants. The 
ants will come for a sip and go home to die No insect can exist 
with oil stopping up its spiracles or breathing pores. 

To Clean Hair Brushes. — To wash hair brushes, never use 
soap. Take a piece of soda, dissolve it in warm water, stand the 
brush in it taking care that the water covers only the bristles. 
It Avill almost instantly become white and clean. Place it in the 
air to dry with the bristles downward and it will be as firm as a 
new brush. 

Ink On Books. — To remove ink stains from a book, first wash 
the paper with warm water, using a camel's hair pencil for the 
purpose By this means the surface ink is got rid of; the paper 
must now be wetted with a solution, oxalaet of potash, or better 
still, oxalic acid in the proportion of one ounce to a half pint of 
water. The ink stains will disappear. Now, wash the stained 
place with clean water, and dry with white blotting paper. 




5'«'»&.. 





IN EVERY COMPETITION, 
PRONOUNCED THE BEST WRITING INK MADE. 




J^i ^1^, CcIllfJG Wax, ^^ 

The '^lh^^^c\ih^^M^ 

DesL Known. Established, 1824. 



34 

A Candle to Burn all Night.— When, as in case of sickuess, 
a dull light is wished, or when matclies are mislaid, put pow- 
dered salt on the candle till it reaches the black part of the 
wick. In this way a mild and steady light may be kept through 
the night by a small piece of candle. 

To Zeep a Boiiq^uet. — Drop a tablespoonful of powdered 
charcoal into the water intended for the flovv^er stalk, and they 
wdll keep their freshness and perfume fer several days, and look 
and smell the same as those just gathered. The charcoal settles 
to the bottom of the vase, the water remaining clear. 

To prevent Sunstroke. — Sunstroke is prevented by wearing 
a silk handkerchief in the crown of the hat, green leaves^ or a 
wet cloth of any kind; bnt during an attack, warm water should* 
be instantly poured on the head, or rags dipped in the water and 
renewed every minute. The reason is two fold— the scalp is dry 
and hot, and the warm water not only removes the dryness, but 
carries off the extra heat with great rapidity, b}^ evaporation. 

To Render Apparel Fire-Proof.— A solution made by diss- 
olving, in 20 parts of water, 3 parts of borax, and 2^ parts of 
sulphate of magnesia. These are to be mixed just previous to 
use. The muslins and other similar fabiics are soaked in the 
solution, wrung out, and ironed, while yet slightly moist. 

Polishing Powder for G-old Articles.— The following mixture 

applied by means of a piece or leather, is highly recomended 
for polishing true gold articles: ^ pound of chalk, 3J ounces of 
clay, 4 ounces of white lead, f of an ounce ot carbonate of mag- 
nesia, f of an ounce of polishing rouge, all finely pulverised 
and thoroughly mixed. 

Pondfti Extract. The Vegetable Pain Destroyer. 




36 

Cheap Vinegar. — Take a quantity ofcommon potatoes, wash 
them until they are thoroughly clean, place them in a large 
vessel and boil them until done. Drain off carefully the water 
they were cooked in, straining it, if necessary, in order to 
remove every particle of of the potatoe. Then put this potatoe 
water in a jug or keg, which set near the stove, or in some 
l^lace where it will be kept warm, and add one pound of sugar 
to about two and one-half gallons of the water, some hop yeast 
or a small portion of whisky. Let it stand three or four weeks, 
and you ^vill have excellent vinegar, at a cost of six or seven 
cents per gallon. 

Clam Chowder. — Put in a kettle some small slices of fat salt 
pork, enough to line the bottom ; on that a layer of potatoes, 
cut in small pieces; then a layer of chopped onions; then a lay- 
er of tomatoes, in slices, or canned tomatoes; on the later a lay- 
er of clams, chopped; then a layer of crackers. Season each lay- 
er with pepper aud salt. Kepeat the process (omitting the pork) 
until the kettle is nearly full, cover with water, set on a slow 
fire, and when nearly done stir gently, finish cooking, and serve 
hot. When done, if found to thin, boil a little longer; if to thick, 
add a little water and let it boil once. The more potatoes that 
are used the tliicker it will be. 

To Restore Scorched Linen. — Take two onions, peel and slice 
them, and extract the juice by squeezing or pounding. Then 
cut up half an ounce of white soap and two ounces of fuller's 
earth; mix with them the onion juice and add half a pint of 
vinegar. Boil this composition well and spread it when cool 
over the scorched part of the linen, leaving it to dry thereon; 
afterwards wash out the linen. 

Ponds Extract. "Hear for I will speak of excellent things". 



38 

Fly Poison. — Take four ounces of quassia wood chips, boil 
for half an hour in one pint of water; when cold, strain, and 
add water to make one pint; also alcohol, two fluid ounces. Place 
this decoction in shallow dishes, where the insects are trouble- 
some, adding to each dish one tablespoonful of molasses. This 
is a sure death to flies and perfectly harmless to persons. 

To Remove paint from Windows.— After paint has become 

dry and hard, strong soap-suds will not remove it without a vast 
deal of hard rubbing. The most economical way to remove dry 
paint, is to make a small swab, having a handle some eight 
inches long, dip it in a little diluted oxalic acid, and rub off the 
paint with the swab. 

Closing Craoks in Stoves. — Good wood ashes are to be sifted 
through a fine sieve, to which is to be added clay finely pulver- 
ized, together with a little salt. The mixture is to be moistened 
with water enough to make a paste, and the crack of the stove 
filled with it, The cement does not peel off or break away, but 
assumes an extreme degree of hardness after being heated. The 
stove must be cool when the application is made. 

Blackberry Wine. — Wash the berries and jDOur one quart of 
boiling water to each gallon. Let them stand twenty-four hours 
stirring occasionally. Then strain into a keg, adding two pounds 
of sugar, and one pint good rye whiskey, or one pint of alcohol 
to every gallon, Cork tight, and let it sti.nd a few months. 

To Clean Straw Hats. — Straw hats whicli have turned 3-ell- 
ow may be bleached by the use of a soap prepared by taking 
any good soda soap and precipitating it from its solution by 
means of common salt, and adding to it one-fourth the weight 
of sulphate of soda. 

Pond« Extiactc 




40 

Yeast. — To a handful- of hops add two cups of boihng water; 
let it boil a few miuutes, struiu it, pour it over enough flour to 
well scald it. The paste must be thick enough for a spoon to 
stand upright in it. Let it cool until milk warm; then add one 
teacupful of brewer's yeast; when risen enough add two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, two of giuger and two of sugar. Half a tea- 
cupful is sufficient for four or five loaves of bread. 

Milk Paint. — For painting in rooms where the smell of oil 
or terpentine would be objectionable, a preparation may ba 
made as follows: Take eight ounces of freshly slacked lime and 
mix it in an earthen vessel with three quarts of skimmed milk. 
In another vessel mix three and a-hali pounds of Paris White 
with three j)ints of the milk. When these mixtures are well stir- 
red up put them together and add six ounces of linseed oil. 
Mix these well and it will be ready for use This preparation 
is equal to oil paint, and is excellent for walls and ceilings. 
Any shade may be made by the addition of dr}^ pigments." 

Bedbugs. — A house can be cleansed of these troublesome 
vermins without expense. You have only to wash with salt 
water, filling the cracks where they frequent with salt, and 
you may look in vain for them. 

To Set the Color of Cotton Dresses.— Take a large double 

handful of bran, put it in a saucepan and set it over the fire 
allowing it to boil thoroughly in a quart of water. When thor- 
oughly boiled strain the bran, and throw the water into that in 
which you are about "washing your lawn or chintz dress. Let 
the dress soak foj an hour or so in it before washing. Instead 
of starch use a weak solution of glue water and iron on the 
wrong side. 

Ponds Extracts Try it for Hemorrhages. 



TP^-^-^ 



WRITES iSHOOlS 



Hr mn^tJCR croisfTAms^Kt inKv3 



HAWKES' PATENT 

AND ONLY PERFECT 

FOUNTAIN PEN IN THE WORLD. 
Pen, Penholder and Inkstand Combined. 

ONE FILLING, WRITES ONE TO TEN HOURS. 
7/ie 07ngi7ial a?id only 7na7iu_facture7' o/ this style of ^en 

Tlie Higrliest Ceutenuial 

AWAKD 

for Oold Pens, Pencils a>lid 

FOUNTAIN PENS. 

ALSO 
NEW STYLE OF GOLD QUILL PEN. 

GEO. F. HAWKES, Manufacturer, 

^<6 NASSAU STKEET, NEW YORK. 

EW°PeDS repaired for 50 cents, and sent by mail.,^ 
SEND STAMP FOR CIRCULAR. 





42 



Black-Walnut ''Stain." — To impart to common pine the 
color and appearance of black walnut, the following composi- 
tion may be used: One qnarter of a pound of asphaltum, one 
half a pound of common beeswax, to one gallon of turpentine. 
If found to thin, add beeswax ; if to light in color, add asphaltum 
though that must be done with caution, as a very little will 
make a great difference in the shade. 

Cocoa-nut Candy. — Grate very fine a sound, fresh cocoa-nut, 
spread it on a dish, and let it dry naturally for three days. Four 
ounces will be sufficient for a pound of sugar, but more can be 
at pleasure. Boil the sugar, and when it begins to be very thick 
and white strew in the nut; stir and mix it well, and do not quit 
it for an instant until it is finished. Keep the pan a little above 
the fire to prevent the nut from burning. 

To Renovate Black Silk. — Grate three or four large potatoes 
into water, and strain off the water after letting it come to a 
boil; then put an old dark colored kid glove into it^ and boil for 
ten minutes. Sponge over the breadths of the dress with the 
glove, and when damp enough to iron well, press on the wrong 
side with a flat-iron not too hot, as silk scorches easily. 

To Wash Straw Mattings,— Take a pailful of hot water, a 
perfectly clean long-handled mop, and a dish of dry unsifted 
Indian meal. Sweep all the dust off the matting and then scatter 
the dry meal evenly over the room. Wring the mop dry so that 
it will not drip, rub hard one breadth at a time, always length- 
wise of the straw, use clean water for each hreadth. When the 
matting is dry, the meal can be swept off easily; it should 
always be done on a dry day. 

Ponds JBxtract, Cures all Pains. 



44 



Air Beds in the Morning.— The wise house-keeper should 
see to it that all the beds should be aired immediately after 
being occupied. The impurities which emanate from insensible 
perspiration, are made up of minute atoms, wliich if allowed to 
remain long, are absorbed by the bed, and will then, to a grea- 
ter or less extent, vitiate the air for a considerable time after- 
ward Let the occupant throw the bed open on rising, and as 
soon as is convenient open the windows. One hour's early 
ventilation is worth two hour's late airing. 

Overworked Brains. — A general error prevails on this sub- 
ject. Nearly all the cases of sickness and exhaustion from ex- 
cessive mental labor, are really the effect of overloaded stomachs 
"Working the brain ever so moderately on a stomache gorged 
with indigestible food may result in dyspepsia, paralysis, or 
consumption; and the same might happen if the brain were not 
worked at all. Bnt, if the stomach is properly fed and the bow- 
els duly attended to, no amount of study or headwork that any 
human being can perform between sunrise and sunset will occa- 
sion the least injury to the brain. 

When to Eat Fruit. — Iq tropical countries, where fruit is the 
chief article of food, the rule appears to be that the earlier in 
the day it is taken the better, and the later the worse. In hot 
weather many wise people will eat none after noon, alleging 
that the digestion then declines in power, with the decline of the 
day; and the fruit, instead of digesting, decomposes, owing to 
the presence of the saccharine matter. The objection to fruit 
and certain kinds of vegetables late in the day, be the explana- 
tion what it may, is certainly justified by an ample experience, 
some persons can eat fruit at all hours without feeling bad. 
Ponds Extract, Try it for Piles 




Patented January ^Utii, 1675. January 11th, aud IStli, 1877. 



The desk contains about fifty-four subjects in 

Drawing, Writing and Arithmetic. 

FURNISHED COMPLETE WITH ALL NECESSARY 
ARRANGEiVIENTS. 

DO NOT FAIL TO SEE IT. 

Sold by all Stationers and Toy dealers. 



46 

The Pulse. — 'i'he pulse of a healthy person beats seventy 
times in a minute; there maybe good health down to sixty; but 
if the pulse always exceeds seventy there is disease. An infant's 
pulse is one hundred and forty; a child of seven years about 
eighty ; from twenty to sixty years it is seventy beats a minute, 
declining to sixty at four-score. There are pulses all over the 
body, bnt where there are only skin and bone it is most easily 
felt, The feebleness or strength of the beats is not material, 
being modified by the fingers pressure Comparatively, rapid- 
ity is the great point ; near death, it is a hundred and forty or 
over, when the pulse beats irregularly, as if it lost a beat, then 
hurried to make it up,, there is something the matter with the 
heart, but however unnatural the pulsr is, do not worry it; 
take nothhig except by the advice of an intelligent physician. 

Hints for Young Mothers. — The three requisites for babies 
are plenty of food, plenty of flannel plenty of sleep. If an 
infant is accustomed from its birth to sleep from six o'clock at 
night until daylight, the habit of early sleep will be formed, and 
the mother may have all the evenings to herself. If the baby 
sleeps all nignt, a long morning nap will naturally come about 
dinner time, alter which the child, except when very young, 
should be kept awake until aix o'clock. Perseverance in this 
routine will soon result in securing quiet evenings. Some moth- 
ers rock and sing there little ones to sleep, with most children 
this is entirely unnecessary. An infant can be accustomed, by a 
few days training, to go to sleep itself for a morning nap as 
well as for a longer rest at night. 

Cleanliness. — Keep the body clean. The pores of tha skin are 
the drains of the body; if these are choked by the dirt perspi- 
ration, the waste of the body, is driven back, to the injury of 
health and spirit. Cold water is a good companion. 

Pouds Extract, Best Medicine Known for Sprains. 




UTILITY ADJUSTABLE TABLE 



We present to the pub 
lie a I article wliicli needs 
only to be known to be 
appreciated. The perfec- 
tion of its principle, the 
beauty of its design, and 
the eiecjauce of its finish, 
and its manifold points of 
usefulness will commend 
it to the favorable consid- 
eration of everybody. _ 

It will be found partic- 
ularly adapted to ladies' 
work, such as cutting, 
basting, trimming, etc. ; 
also for use in the nursery, 
the sick chamber, the lib- 
r?ry, camp or pic-nic, for 
crames of all kinds it has 
no equal. Inclose stamp 
for illustrated I o k. 
ADDRESS, Farrell & Co., 
No. 371 Broadway, 
Brooklyn, N. Y, 




ONLY 50 CENTS A YEAK. 

A'o One Should A^eep House iriihoid It, 

THE HOUSEKEEPER'S COMPANION i^^-J^.^f^^^Jl^f.^otv'^^^^^^ 
eight-page monthly, printed on f ^ ,^-'d Wecono^^^ 
thing that pertains to the household ^^1,^^ ,^//?";^ ,'^e Becorations, 
including Scientiticand Healthful Cl^^^^^^^^^ 

Fancy Woik, the Cultivation of I^'^^\^';"|^;; 'a^'s subscription 
Baid that a single number was worth ^".7;f i^X;^':^/ ' Everyone 
price. inUsare ahu7iclrediimes its ^^jf/^f ^^^^'f^/.^Vge amount 
fs delighted with it. Several beautiful engraw^gs.^^^^^^^ ^^ 3^ 

of valuable information monthly p7ily ^^J^t o\ ce io MILTON 

cents with elegant oil chromo "Forg™ Send at o..^e t ^ 

T RICHARDSON, Publisher, 29 Fulton siTcet, i^io ^ , 
Specimen number sent on receipt of stamp. 



48 

Keep Ammonia in the House.— n'o housekeeper should be with- 
out a bottle of spirits of ammonia, for besides its medical value, 
it is invaluable for household purposes. It is nearly as useful 
as soap, and its cheapness brings it within reach of all. Put a 
teaspoonful of ammonia to a quart of warm soap suds, dip in a 
flannel cloth, and wipe off the dust and fly specks, and see for 
yourself how much labor it will save. No scrubbing will be need- 
ful. It will cleanse and brighten silver wonderfully; to a pint of 
suds mix a teaspoonful of the spirits, dip in your silver spoons, 
forks, etc., rub with a brush, and polish with chamos skins. 
For washing mirrors and windows it is very desirable; put a 
few drops of ammonia on a piece of paper and it will readily 
take off every spot or finger mark on the glass. It will take out 
grease spots from every fabric; put on the ammonia nearly clear, 
lay blotting paper over the place, and press a hot flat iron on 
it for a few minutes. A few drops in water will clean laces and 
whiten them as well; also muslins, Then it is a most refreshing 
agent at the toilet table ; a few drops in a basin of water will 
make a better bath than pure water, and if the skin is oily, it 
will remove all glossiness and all disagreeable odors. Added to 
a foot bath it entirely absorbs all noxious smell so often arising 
from the feet, and nothing is better for cleaning the hair from 
dandruff and dust. 

Household Measures. — Wheat flour, one pound is one quart; 
Indian meal, one pound two ounces is one quart; butter, when 
soft, one pound one ounce is one quart; loaf sugar, broken, one 
p^und is one quart; white sugar, powdered, one j^ound one 
ounce is one quart ; best brown sugar, one pound two ounces 
is one quart ; ten eggs are one pound ; 16 largt? tablespoonfuls 
are half a pint, eight are one gill, four, half a gill, etc. 

Ponds Extract. Cures Sore Throat 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 





P A If I 014 184 189 • 



1 \jr\ U U Jj Al ll A V; J J administered EXTERNALLY 

and INTERNALLY, for NEUHAL&IA, RHEUMATISM, 

Toothache, Earaclie, Faceache, Stings, Swellings, Pains. 
Injuries, and Varicose Veins, is the best remedy in the 
world. For HEMOEEHA&ES it is worth its weight in gold, 
liaying saved hundreds of lives when all other remedies 
failed to arrest Bleeding from the Nose, Stomache, Lungs, 
and elsewliere. It is a certain subduer of IJ^irLAMMA- 
TIONS or CONGESTIONS, sucli as simple or chronic 
DIARRHEA, and CATARRH, and Sore Throat. It will 
rapidly heal Cuts, Burns, Bruises, Contusions, Sores, and 
ABCESSES, and will positively cure HEMORRHOIDS or 
PILES- for this it is a marvellous specific. It is a great 
domestic REMEDY whero any Pain, or Inflammation, or 
Hemorrhage exists, and should be kept in readiness in ev- 
ery family, for the many analagous Ills and ACCIDENTS 
constantly occurring to CHILDREN and ADULTS. 
l^EMALEWEAKNESSESS.-For Lame Back, Bad 
-*- Breasts, and all Intlanimations, Ulcerations, or Hemorrhages 

Incidental To Ladies, "pond's extract'' has won 

great triumphs, (sknd for pamphlet.) 

TOIIvET USES— For Roii^^li Skin, Pinplcs, and all Manner of 
Eruptions, Its action is at once Soothing, Cooling, and 
Healing. It is distinguished for healthful purity and 
cleanliness. 



THE POND'S EXTRACT CO, 

98, Maiden Lane. New York & 482, Oxford St., London. 
SOLD BY ALL WHOLESALE AND EETAIL DRUGGISTS 



