Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



t! 



i 












' ^<^ C 



WESTMINSTER 



COOK-BOOK. 



EVERY RECIPE TRIED AND PROVED. 



We may live withoat poetry, manic, and art 
We may live withoat conscience, and live withoat heart. 
We may live withoat friends, we may live withoat books. 
Bat what civilized man can live without cooks? 

He may live withoat books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live withoat hope — what is hope bat deceiving ? 
He may live withoat love — what is passion bnt pining? 
Bat where is the man that can live withoat dining ? 



OlfE HUITDBBD JLND BIGHTY-THBEE BEOIFEB. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
HOLLOWBUSH AND CAREY, 

423 MARKET STREET. 
1876. 






Entered aooording to Act of Congress, in the year 1876^ by 

HOLLOWBUSH AND CAREY, 
in the office of the Librarian, at Washington. All rights reserved. 



^5 .1^ V 



WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 



SOUPS. 

Soups. 

"We have deemed it unnecessary to give re- 
cipes fot- the common every-day soups. Beef 
and veal form the stock, with such vegetables 
and herbs as suit the tastes of the household. 
For white soups veal is best; for hrown^ use 
beef and the bones and trimmings of other 
meats and poultry. Always use cold water, 
and after it begins to boil, place it in a position 
where it will simmer only, but be sure to keep it 
simmering for four or five hours, with the pot 
closely covered. In winter, sufficient stock 
may be made to last several days, and this 
quantity should boil all day. A portion can 
be used with sliced vegetables as vegetable 
soup, one day ; with vermicelli, another day ; 
and again, with tomatoes and the addition of a 
little catsup as tomato soup. To color soups, 
use for thickening flour that has been previously 
browned in the oven. 



WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 



Clam Soup. 

To a gallon of cut-up clams and their liquor, 
well boiled and strained, put a cup and a half 
of cream, two tablespoonsful of flour creamed 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, and well 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and mace. 

Crah Soiip. 

Three dozen crabs boiled and picked, divide 
them equally, boil again one half in a full gal- 
lon of water, with salt and mace, for about an 
hour. Then take off and strain, put the soup 
on again with a teacup of cream, quarter of a 
pound of butter, two and a half tablespoonsful 
of flour creamed with the butter and scalded 
with a little of the hot soup, a tablespoonful of 
mixed mustard, black and red pepper. Have 
in your tureen the remaining dozen and a half 
crabs cleanly picked, and pour the hot soup 
upon them, and serve without delay, for it is 
delicious. 

Oyster Soup. 

One and a half cups of cream to a gallon of 
oysters and liquor, two tablespoonsful of flour, 
creamed with a quarter of a pound of butter 
and well seasoned with pepper, salt, and mace. 



MEATS. 



% 



MEATS. 

Asparagus. 

Take two bunches of freshly gathered aspa- 
ragus, cut in small pieces, and boil until tender 
in water enough to cover it, having first put 
into this water one dessertspoonful of sugar. 
Then add one pint of milk, butter, pepper, and 
salt to taste, and let it just come up to a boil. 

Be sure and not hoil it. Serve in deep plates. 

Baked Ham. 

Boil until quite done, then remove the skin. 
Rub together one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two 
of ground cloves, two of grated nutmeg, two 
tablespoons of brown sugar. Make incisions 
with a knife all over the top the depth of the 
fat, into which force the mixture. The balance 
must be rubbed over the top, then cover the 
surface thickly with bread crumbs. Bake 
slowly about one-half hour, basting frequently 
with the essence to keep it from burning. 

Corn Oysters. 

Grate down twelve ears of corn, beat two eggs 

very light, stir well together with pepper and 

salt, add two tablespoons of powdered cracker, 

fry in lard. 

1* 



6 WESTMINSTER COOK BOOK. 

Croquettes. 

Having chopped fine your meat, take some 
grated bread crumbs, and season with salt, pep- 
per, mace, nutmeg, and grated lemon rind. 
Moisten the whole with cream, and make into 
small cones. Have ready some beaten eggs, 
.mix with grated bread, dip into it each cro^ 
quette and fry slowly in butter. 

Deviled Crahs. 

« 

One dozen crabs, a small loaf of baker's bread, 
three teaspoonsful of mixed mustard, two of 
black pepper, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, and 
one of salt, teacup of vinegar, and five ounces 
of butter. Bake in shells. 

Drawn Butter. 

Mix two or three teaspoonsful of flour with a 
little cold water, stir until clear of lumps, thin 
it, and pour on a half pint of boiling water, 
stirring constantly. Boil it two or three 
minutes; then cut up four ounces of butter in 
it, and melt and stir; add hard-boiled eggs 
sliced or minced as desired. 



MEATS. 7 

Mock Oystet's. 

A pint of boiled hominy, two eggs, a teacup 
of flour, a tablespoonful of butter (melted), 
pepper and salt to taste ; mix all well together, 
make in little cakes and fry a light brown. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Season and fry brown a calf's liver, then hash 
it fine, dust thickly with flour, two tablespoons- 
ful of mixed mustard, a little cayenne pepper, 
three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg^ and a teacup of water. 
Let it simmer a few minutes, then serve hot. 

Omelet. 

Three teaspoonsful of fresh milk to each e^^^ 
a little salt, beat the eggs light, add the milk, 
and cook, stirring all the time. 

Slaw Dressing. 

The yolks of two eggs well beaten, two tea- 
spoonsful of sugar, one of mustard, one of salt, 
one of black pepper, beat all together; add one 
teacup of cream or milk, and half a cup of 
vinegar. Set on the fire and stir until it be- 
comes as thick as boiled custard. Let it come 
to a boil. 



8 WESTMINSTER OOOK-BOOK. 

Spiced Beef. 

Four pounds of tender beef minced fine, one 
pound suet chopped fine, mix them together; 
one spoonful of cloves, half the quantity of 
pepper, salt to your taste, a teacup of water. 
Mix all together^ then pack in a tin pan the 
size to suit the quantity. Put in the oven and 
bake an hour and a half. Thirf is a delightful 
relish for tea, cut thin. 

Sausage Meat 

To twenty-nine pounds of chopped meat, add 
eleven ounces of salt, nine heaped tablespoons- 
ful of freshly rubbed sage, five tablespoonsful 
of ground black pepper. If cayenne pepper is 
liked, put to this a half teaspoonful of ground 
cayenne. 

Sauce for Cold Meats. 

Boil two eggs three minutes, mix a small 
teaspoonful of mixed mustard, a little pepper 
and salt — six spoonsful of drawn butter or oil, 
six of vinegar, and one of catsup. 

FurJcey or ChicJcen Patties. 

Mince fine your cold fowl, together with 
some cold boiled ham or tongue; add the yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs grated, a little cayenne 



. \» 



' - .- .■•■ '. •• . • •• •,.'.•■ •  -• "■■ V  J . '.*//.':.-.*-••• 

MEAT3. 9 

pepper, some powdered mace, and nutmeg. 
Mix and moisten with cream or butter. Have 
ready some puff paste in pattypans, and fill 
with the mixture. Add oysters, and warm 
with hot shovel. 

Tomato Beef. 

Take five pounds of beef off the end of the 
surloin, place it in a pot with sufficient water 
to keep it from burning, and no more. It 
should be turned often, let it brown, cook one 
hour, then add twelve tomatoes, half an onion 
chopped fine, pepper and salt. After adding 
the tomatoei^, stew one hour longer. Serve the 
beef with the tomatoes around it. 

Turkey Smvce. 

Mix two or three teaspoonsful of flour with a 
little cold milk, stir it until clear of lumps, thin 
it and pour on a half-pint of boiling milk, stir- 
ring constantly. Boil it two or three minutes. 
Then cut up four ounces of butter in it, melt, 
and stir and add one pint of oysters and celery 
chopped. 

Yeal Patties. 

Three pounds of veal, one pound and a half 
of fresh pork, quarter of a pound of butter, and 
four eggs. Grind the meat fine, add the other 



,*-:* 






'*\\ 



m 






 •vo 



■*t'^- 



•V''-" 

>'•... 



•y-. 



•>. 









10 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

ingredients. Season to taste with mmgtard, 
pepper, and salt. Roll into shape. Set them 
in the oven and brown over. To be eaten cold. 



BREADS. 

Bridgeton Rolls. 

One quart of new milk, one cup and a half 
of lard and butter mixed, two eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, one and a half cups of yeast, 
and a little salt; make up soft, let them rise, and 
make them out two hours before you bake them. 

Corn Muffins. 

One quart of milk, one and a half pints flour 
(even measure), one-half that quantity of meal, 
sift both together, five eggs beaten very light 
(yolks and whites separately), and added to the 
batter, a little salt; butter small tin muffin pans 
(not rings), bake in a quick oven from twenty 
to twenty -five minutes. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Take three eggs, half-pint of milk, melt there- 
in a tablespoonful of lard, then add half-pint 
cold water, and one teacup of yeast, mix all 
together, and make the batter as thick as for 
buckwheat cakes. 



BREADS 11 

Laplanders. 

Beat two eggs very light, then add one pint 
milk, one pint flour, one teaspoon salt, beat well 
together, and bake in small tins. This quantity 
makes one dozen. Have the tins hot 

Light Bread. 

For two loaves of bread, thicken one quart 
of lukewarm water with flour until it will just 
pour easily, add one tablespoonful of salt, half 
teacup yeast ; this should be done about 7 P. M. 
About 10 P. M. work in flour until it is nearly 
as stiff as pie crust, and let it rise again in a 
mass; it will rise high and crack open. When 
it is sufficiently light, mould it into loaves, and 
let it stand about an hour, when it will be ready 
to bake, which you can tell by its cracking open. 
The flour should always be sifted, and the dough 
well kneaded. 

Light Biscuit. 

Two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of 
lard, one pint of milk, and a cup of yeast, and 
a little salt. To be made in the evening if in- 
tended for breakfast, or in the morning for tea. 

Maryland Biscuit. 

Take two quarts of flour, one-quarter pound 
lard, and a little salt. Mix with as little water 



12 WESTMINSTER OOOE-BOOK. 

as possible, and then knead it until soft. Break 
up into pieces, and roll into shape, prick with a 
fork, and bake them in a quick oven. To be 
good, they must be worked a great deal. 

Muffin Bread. 

Make up over night just as you would light 
bread only softer, adding two eggs, a mixed 
spoonful of butter and lard, one teaspoon of 
sugar at the time you make it up. Mould out 
only in one loaf as you would rolls, and let it 
rise again before baking. Bake in a pie plate 
(it is stiff enough not to run over). Split in 
half, butter, lay lightly together again, and send 
to the table hot. Serve in quarters. 

Muffins. 

Take three eggs, half pint of milk and water 
in equal quantities, melt therein a tablespoon- 
ful of lard, then add half pint cold water, one 
teacup of yeast, mix all together and stir in 
flour to make it a thick fritter batter. 

Quick Light Cake for Breakfast 

Mix dry and well rubbed together two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, with one quart of 
flour, then dissolve three-quarters of a tea- 
spoonful of super-carbonate of soda in a suffi- 



BREADS. 13 

cient quantity of sweet milk (about a pint), 
mix the whole together, and bake immediately. 
Split and butter. Serve while hot. 

Sally Lunn. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one quart of 
flour, half a teacup of yeast. Put this to rise, 
and when light beat in one cup of melted butter. 
Then put it into your pan or pans, and let it 
rise again, and bake when light. 

Sally Ziunn {with yeast). 

"Warm one quart of milk with quarter pound 
of butter, two heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
half a nutmeg. Beat up three eggs and put 
in, with a little salt, and flour enough to make 
it stiffer than pound cake. Beat it well. Add 
a teacup of yeast, and let it rise. Butter a 
fluted cake mould and pour it in Bake in a 
quick oven one hour. 

If you wish tea at 7 o'clock, set it to rise at 
11 A. M. 

Sally Lunn (without yeast). 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size 
of an eggy three tablespoons of sugar, two eggs, 
two teacups milk, two teaspoons of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoon of saleratus, a little salt. 



14 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

To mix it scatter the cream of tartar, the salt, 
and the sugar into the flour. Add the eggs 
without having beaten them, the butter melted, 
and one cup of the milk. Dissolve the saleratus 
in the remaining cup, and then stir all together 
steadily a few minutes. This makes two loaves. 
Add spice and twice the measure of sugar, and 
you have a good plain cake for the cake basket. 

Supper Fritters. 

One and a half cups of sugar beaten with 
three eggs, one cup of sour cream, and one and 
a half cups of buttermilk, in which stir a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Add flour enough to make a 
thin mufiin-batter, and fry. 

Tea Cake. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, half cup of but- 
ter, half cup of yeast. Make this into a rising, 
and when light knead in sufficient flour to make 
as stiff as roll dough. Make this into three flat 
cakes, and let it rise again. 

Wafers or Wifie Crackers. 

Three pints of flour, one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of lard, one tablespoonful of salt. Rub the 
flour, lard, and salt well together. Make up 



BREADS. 15 

quite stiff. Knead them till soft. Break into 
small pieces and roll them out as thin as wafers. 
Prick with a fork before placing in the oven. 

Wheat Muffins. 

Early in the morning take off a piece of light 
dongh, say what has been made from one quart 
of flour. Thin this to the consistency of batter 
by the addition of sweet milk. After beating 
it till smooth, let it rise all together for one 
hour; then on a delicately greased griddle drop 
the batter from a spoon, and, as soon as lightly 
browned on one side, turn on the other. Serve 
up hot, and tear open instead of cutting with a 
knife. 

Yeast 

One cup of hops, two quarts of water boiled 
down to one quart, five potatoes boiled and 
mashed, one cup of flour. Mix the potatoes 
and flour together, strain the hop- water over 
them. Put on the stove and let it boil a few 
minutes, then set it aside to cool. When cool 
add one cup of brown sugar and one cup of 
yeast. It will keep sweet several weeks. 



16 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

CAKES. 

A Cheap Cake. 

Four eggs, three cups of flour, two cups oF 
sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of butter, two 
and a half teaspoonsful of yeast powder. Flavor 
with almonds, and bake in a quick oven. 

Albany Cahes. 

One and a half pounds of flour, one pound of 
sugar, half pound of butter, one quarter of an 
ounce of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of lard, 
one teacup of cream, one teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, and one wineglass of rose-water. 

Butter Cake. 

To-one pint of warm milk add half a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, and four eggs well 
beaten, the rind of one lemon, a nutmeg, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one cup of yeast, and flour 
enough to make a stiff* batter. If put to rise in 
the evening, it will be ready to bake in the 
morning. Put it in your baking pans half inch 
thick, and set it to rise a second time ; when 
light, put small pieces of butter over the top, 
and sift cinnamon and sugar, then it is ready 
for the oven. 



CAKES. 



Caromel. 



Three pounds sugar, one and a half cakes 
chocolate, half a pound butter, two cups milk, 
one small bottle extract of vanilla. Boil until 
it thickens, stirring constantly. Pour on but- 
tered plates and bar off. 

Centennial Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of butter, 
cream the butter and sugar together, six eggs. 
Break in an egg, and add a handful of flour, 
and so on until you get the eggs in; then add 
a glass of ice- water and more flour until it is 
as stiff as pound cake ; flavor to taste, and put 
into the flour a tablespoonful of yeast powder. 

Children's Cakes. 

One and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, one 
nutmeg and a half, one and a half small tea- 
cupsful of milk, two teaspoonsful of yeast 
powder, one and a half tablespoonsful of 
brandy, and the same of rose-water. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
two cups flour, yolks and whites of six eggs 



18 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

beaten separately, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
half teaspoon soda dissolved in half enp sweet 
milk. Bake in layers. Half pound Baker's 
chocolate grated fine in half pint milk, flavor 
and sweeten to taste. Boil this for a few min- 
utes until it thickens. While cooling add one 
egg well beaten. Spread the chocolate upon 
the cake as soon as taken from the oven (as 
you would jelly cake). 

Chocolate Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half 
a pound of butter, six eggs, one cup of milk, 
three teaspoonsful of yeast powder. 

Icing — three-quarters of a pound of chocolate, 
grated and mixed with four tablespoonsful of 
milk, put in the oven to melt, and when melted 
mix with icing the same as white mountain 
cake. This quantity makes two large cakes. 

Coffee Cake. 

One pint of sponge, half a pint of milk, one- 
quarter pound of butter, one-quarter pound of 
lard, add the milk, stir in the sponge, one-half 
pound of brown sugar, two eggs. Scald the 
raisins or currants, wipe them dry, flavor to 
your taste with spice ; thicken until the spoon 
stands in the batter. Make up the si)onge the 



CAKES. 19 

night before, add the ingredients the next 
morning, and it will be fit to bake for tea. 

Cream Cake. 

One tablespoonful of bntter, one cup of sugar, 
two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, one ^^^^ two 
teaspoonsful of cream tartar, one of soda, one 
and two-third cups of flour, flavor with vanilla 
or lemon, and bake in layers as for jelly cake. 

Cup Cake. 

Two cups of white sugar stirred intaone cup 
of butter until quite light, three cups of sifted 
flour, four eggs beaten light (whites and yolks 
separately) ; beat the yolks into the sugar and 
butter, stir the flour in gently, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
lastly the whites ; beat all w^ell, bake in a mode- 
rate oven in small tins, sift sugar over them. 

Clip Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, one of butter, four of 
flour, one of cream, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of pearlash ; let these ingredients be well beaten 
together, and add spice to your taste. 



20 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. - 

Cup Cale. 

One cup of cream, two cups of butter,. three 
cups of sugar, and four cups of flour, five eggs, 
«,nd spice to your taste ; bake thin. 

Caromel. 

Three pounds of sugar, one cake of chocolate, 
half pint of cream, quarter of a pound of butter. 
Season with vanilla. Boil slowly about thirty 
.minutes, as it burns easily. 

Delicate Cake. 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, 
two cups flour, four eggs, half cup milk, two 
i^^aspoons baking powder in the flour. 

Doughnuts. 

Four pounds and a half of flour, two and a 
half pounds of sugar, six eggs beaten light, 
three half pints of milk (warmed), one pound 
of lard, and two tablespoonsful of good yeast. 
Mix all into a soft dough, let them stand two 
hours before they are rolled, then melt two 
pounds of lard in a kettle, and throw in a few 
at a time. They quickly bake if the lard is 
scalding' hot. 



CAKES. 21 

English Cake. 

Take five eggs, then the weight of five eggs 
in sugar, the weight of four in flour, the weight 
of three in butter, one nutmeg, and a glass of 
wine. 

Tkerton Taffy. 

One pound of sugar, two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar ; soak twelve hours, then add a small 
lump of butter and boil; flavor with vanilla. 

Federal Cakes. 

One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, the 
same of sugar, well rubbed together with half a 
teaspoonful of spice, one egg well beaten, one- W 
quarter glass of rose-water, and six drops of ;^ 
essence of lemon. Bake in small cakes. 

French Custard Cake. 

Four eggs, one and a half pints of milk, 
lump of butter the size of a walnut, three table- 
spoons corn-starch, one lemon, sugar, and flavor- 



ing to taste. 



Fi^it Cake. 



One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, two and a half pounds of 
raisins, two and a half pounds of currants, one 



22 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

pound of citron, twelve eggs, four nutmegs, 
one tablespoon of cinnamon, one wineglass 
of rose-water, one of brandy, two of wine. 

Oen. Lee Cake. 

Make by gold cake recipe, putting into the 
batter the grated rind of two oranges. Bake 
in white cake tins, and put, when cold, icing 
between and over it. 

Icing fof above. — Take the juice of two 
oranges and one lemon, into which put as much 
pulverized sugar as will make very stiff. This 
is excellent for any other cake. 

Oinger Bread. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound and a quarter 
of Sugar, one pounds of butter, and a spoonful 
of lard, nine eggs, nearly a cup of ginger, and 
either a half-cup of cinnamon or two nutmegs, 
and a desertspoonful of mace, a small teaspoon- 
ful of soda in milk or cream, a pint of molasses. 

Oinger Oup-CaTce. 

One cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, three eggs, three cups flour, one teaspoon 
saleratus, one tablespoon ginger; bake in pans. 
A pound of stoned and chopped raisins is an 
improvement. 



CAKES. 23 

Ginger Cakes. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of lard and butter mixed, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, flour enough to make 
it stitf. 

General Directions for Lightening, 

In measuring yeast powder for any recipe in 
this book, be sure to heap the teaspoon, or the 
quantity; will be insufficient to produce the de- 
sired lightness. The proper manner to lighten 
eggs is to whisk the whites first to a stiff froth, 
and then gradually whip the yolks into it. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of molasjses, one cup of sugar, o^e 
cup of milk, one cup of butter, one and a half 
tablespoonsful of ginger, quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and a half teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of salt, and flmir to make 
stiff enough to roll out. 

Gold OaJce. 

Take the yelks of the fourteen eggs left from 
white cake, put them in a pint measure, and fill 
to the top with new milk. Beat well, and when 



24 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

light, add alternately with one pound of sifted 
flour, to one pound of sugar and three-quarters 
of a pound of butter (creamed). Flavor with 
one wineglass of brandy, one of wine, and what- 
ever spice or extract you desire for flavoring. 
Put into the flour three teaspoonsful of yeast 
powder. Bake one hour and a half if made in 
a large cake. 

Oood Rusks and Doughnuts. 

Into ^ pint of milk, put three cups of sugar 
and a bit of butter the size of an ^g^. Set it on 
the stove until the butter is entirely melted. 
"When cool, add half pint of yeast and four well- 
beaten eggs. Cinnamon or nutmeg to taste, 
and as much flour as will make it as thick 
as muffin dough. Set to rise all night. In the 
morning work in flour enough to make like soft 
bread dough, and make half into rusks which 
may sit two or three hours longer to rise. 
When nicely baked, rub over with butter, on 
which sprinkle cinnamon and sugar quite thick. 
The remaining half of dough may be rolled out 
(after the rusks are baked), and cut into shapes, 
and fried in boiling lard. Sprinkle while hot 
with pulverized sugar, and cinnamon if liked. 



CAKES. 25 

Indian Meal Cakes. 

One pound of meal, one pound of Havana 
sugar, half pound of butter, beat butter and 
sugar to a cream, take out one handful of meal 
and add one of wheat flour, four eggs. Rose- 
water, and spice to your taste. Drop them on 
tin sheets or bake them in very small tins. 

Jelly CaTce. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three 
cups of flour, whites of seven eggs, and one cup 
of milk. 

Jelly Cake. 

Ten eggs, three-quarters pound sifted flour, 
one pound white sugar, juice and rind of one 
lemon. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks very 
light, then add the sugar, then the whites, and 
finally stir in the flour gently. Bake in eight 
layers. 

Jumbles. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one teacup 
milk, five eggs, one teaspoon soda dissolved in 
boiling water, one teaspoon of nutmeg, sufficient 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut into 
shapes, and sift sugar over them before they go 
into the oven. 

3 



26 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 



Jumhles. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, two eggs beaten 
very light, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, one 
tablespoon ful of rose-water. 

Lee Cake. 

Bake sponge cakes in jelly pans. Grate the 
rind of a lemon and squeeze the juice, grate a 
large orange and add to the lemon, then stir in 
one pound of granulated sugar till it becomes 
thick. Spread this between the layers of cake 
while hot. 

Light Wigs. 

Two pounds of flour, four eggs, onerquarter 
of a pound of butter, one-half pound of sugar, 
one pint of milk, a coffee-cup of yeast, and a 
little mil meg. 

Little Pine Cakes. 

One pound of flour, half pound of sugar, and 
the same of butter ; beat to a cream. Mix well 
together, and bake in small titis. 

London Coffee Cake. 

Four eggs, half pound of butter, half pound 
of sugar, half pint of rich milk, one pound of 



CAKES. 27 

flour, into which rub two teaspoonsful o" yeast- 
powder. Bake like Sally Lunn. Just before 
you take it from the oven sprinkle pulverized 
sugar over the top, and cinnamon if you like. 

Love Cakes. 

Mix with twelve egg yt)lk8 a glass of rose- 
water, four ounces of bitter almonds finely pow- 
dered, and sugar enough to make a batter stiff 
enough to bake in boxes. 

Maccaroons. 

One pint ground-nuts or almonds well beaten, 
one pint of sugar, whites of five eggs whipped- 
up, flour enough to stick together. Bake in 
little pans or on white paper in a moderate oven. 

Marbled CaJce. 

One cup of butter, two cups of powdered 
sugar, three cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of 
sweet milk, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one 
of cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. When 
the cake is mixed, take out about one teacup of 
batter, and stir into this a large spoonful of 
grated chocolate, wet with a scant tablespoon- 
ful of milk. Fill the mould about one inch deep 
with the yellow batter, then drop on this in two 
or three places a spoonful of the dark mixture ; 



28 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

give the brown spots a light stir with the top 
of the spoon, spreading it in broken circles 
npon the lighter surface. Proceed in this order 
until it is used up. When cut the cake will be 
handsomely variegated. The reserved cupful 
of batter may be colored with enough prepared 
cochineal to give it a fine pink tint, and mix as 
you do the brown. 

Marvels. 

Beat two eggs very light, add one pint of 
flour, a little salt, and two dessertspoonsful of 
water. Fry them in hot lard, and sprinkle 
sugar over them when done. 

Montrose Cakes. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one leaspoon- 
ful of yeast-powder, and four cups of flour. 

Orange Cake. 

Mix well together one pound of sugar and 
three-quarters of a pound of butter; when light 
add eight eggs ; mix well, and flavor with ex- 
tract of orange ; then add three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted flour, and stir until the dough 
becomes smooth ; put in one or more pans, and 
bake. 



CAKES. 29 

ParJcton Rusk. 

Two cups of sugar, four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, one nutmeg; cream the sugar and 
butter together, then put in the nutmegs, and 
add the eggs, and when well mixed stir in one 
cup of yeast and one cup of warm water, and 
thicken with a pound and a quarter of flour, 
and set it to rise. This should be done about 
noon, and at night work into the rising a pound 
and a quarter more of flour, and put it again to 
lighten. The next morning make out the rusk, 
lighten them again, and bake them when suffi- 
ciently light. This is a most excellent receipt. 

Plain Sugar Cake. 

Three pints of flour, rub into it one teacup of 
butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
four eggs, two teaspoonsful of yeast-powder 
mixed in with the flour. Flavor to taste. 

QueerCs Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of white sugar, 
half a pound of butter, six eggs, one teacupful 
of cream, one nutmeg, one wineglass of brandy, 
cream the butter and sugar together, then add 
the cream, then the eggs, then the flour, and 
lastly stir in the brandy. 

3* 



80 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

One quart of sugar, a scant pint of lard, one 
pint of milk, one pint of water ; make into a 
sponge with a cup of yeast, four eggs. Make 
into a sponge at noon, let it rise until bedtime, 
then add flour enough to knead out soft, a little 
salt, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one nutmeg. 
Let it stand until morning, then roll and cut 
out small in order to let them rise again, until 
they will float in hot lard (even if you have to 
wait to 10 A. M. to fry them). The knack is 
to get them light enough. Roll in pulverized 



sugar. 



Soft Ginger Bread. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one and 
a half cups of molasses, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one of ginger, and two of cinnamon, 
and stir in flour sufficient to mix it. 



Sponge Cake. 

One pound and a half of eggs, one pound 
and a half of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, the grated rind and juice of two 
lemons. 



CAKES. 81 

Sugar Cakes. 

Four eggs, one pound sugar, one teacup 
butter, one teacup milk, one teaspoon soda, one 
of cream of tartar, flour enough to roll. 

Sugar Cakes (another). 

Six eggs, four and a half cups light-brown 
sugar, one cup milk, one cup butter, half cup 
lai'd, one teaspoon soda, one of cream of tartar, 
flour enough to roll. 

Superior Chocolate Cake, 

Cream together two cups of sugar, and one 
of butter, then add one cup of milk, half cake 
of Baker's chocolate (grated). Put in five 
well-beaten eggs, and three cups of flour into 
which you have stirred three teaspoonsful of 
yeast powder, adding the eggs and flour alter- 
nately. 

Filling for the above. — One pound of pulver- 
ized sugar, with water enough to wet it. Beat 
the whites of three eggs a little, but not to a 
stiff froth; add the sugar, then half a cake of 
chocolate grated. Boil until it thickens, and 
after removing from the fire, and it cools a little, 
stir in a grated cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla. 



32 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Swiss Cake. 

Take butter, flour, and sugar, of each the 
weight of four eggs. Beat together the yolks 
and sugar, add ten drops of essence of lemon, 
and a large teaspoonful of rose-water, add the 
butter just melted, and slowly sift in the flour, 
beating it until well mixed. Then stir in the 
whites (beaten stiff), and beat hard for a few 
minutes. Butter the tin and bake cake half an 
hour. 

Tea Cakes. 

Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces 
of flour, eight ounces of currants, six ounces 
fine sugar, two yolks and one white of egg, and 
a spoonful of brandy ; roll the paste and cut with 
a wineglass. 

Washington Cake. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of 
yeast, one teacup melted butter, one pint new 
milk; make it a thick batter. 

White Cake. 

One pound of flour, the same of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, the whites of 
fourteen eggs; flavor with peach-water or 



CAKKP. 33 

blanched almonds; use three teaspoonsfnl of 
yeast powder. If baked in a large cake, bake 
one hour. 

WTiite Mountain Cake. 

One cup butter arid three cups sugar creamed 
well together, half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon 
of cream of tartar in three and a half cups of 
flour, half teaspoon of soda in a little water, 
whites of ten eggs beaten very light ; flavor with 
almond. Put flour in last. Bake in three jelly 
tins. When cool, put icing over each cake, and 
grated cocoanut over the icing. Place the cakes 
together, then ice, and grate cocoanut over the 
top and sides. 

Variety CaJce. 

The whites of five eggs, tw^o cups pulverized 
sugar, two cups and a half of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
three teaspoonsfnl of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. Take four tablespoonsful of this 
dough, and to it add half cup molasses, half cup 
raisins, a few currants, and half cup flour. Bake 
like jelly cake, dividing the white dough into 
two cakes, putting the fruit cake between with 
layers of tart jelly. 



34 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 



DESSERTS. 

A Plain Pudding {without eggs). 

Three cups flour, one cup molasses, two of 
suet, one of milk, half pound raisins (cut), half 
pound currants, two teaspoons cream of tartar 
rubbed through the flour, half teaspoon soda 
dissolved in the milk. Steam four hours in a 
covered buttered pudding mould. Wine sauce. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Butter several thin slices of bread and line the 
sides of a d^ep earthen dish with them, always 
placing the buttered side next the dish. Then 
put in a layer (about two inches thick) of apples 
sliced up thin, put on the top of this sugar 
sprinkled thickly, and three cloves. Then ano- 
ther layer of bread and butter, then apples, and 
so on with alternate laj^ers until the dish is full. 
Finally butter bread, lay it on a plate, pour ^some 
milk over it, lift carefully, and place it on the 
top of the whole, cover with a plate, put a 
weight on it, and let it bake slowly two hours. 
No sauce. 

Apple Fritters. 

Four pints of finely chopped apples, four eggs, 
a teaspoonful of salt, one pint and a half of 



DESSERTS. 85 

water, sixteen heaping tablespoons ful of flour. 
Should the apples be very juicy, it may be found 
necessary to add more flour. This same batter 
makes an excellent pudding baked and eaten 
with cream sauce or molasses. 

Apple Meringue. 

Stew your apples well and smoothly, sweeten 
to taste, and add the rind of a lemon. Take the 
whites of five eggs, beat to a stifi* froth, put to 
them a teacup of powdered sugar, a little^ose- 
water, and juice of the lemon. Put the fruit in 
a flat dish and with a spoon put in the eggs. 
Put into the oven to brown. A spoonful of 
butter stirred in the apples while hot is an 
improvemeut. 

Apple Pudding. 

A pint of apples stewed and mashed throQgh 
a colander ; add a quarter of a pound of butter 
and a quarter of a pound of sugar, five eggs 
beaten light, orange-peel and rose-water to your 
taste. Stick some citron on the top of your 
pudding ; bake in a paste. 

Apple Sago. 

Raw apples chopped fine, one quart of boiling 
water, six tablespoon sful or quarter of a pound 
of sago. Sweeten to taste, and add the rind 
and juice of one lemon. 



86 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Baked Batter Budding. 

Five eggs well beaten, five even tablespoons 
of flour, five of milk to mix the flour. Add one 
quart of boiling milk. Bake fifteen minutes. 
Wine sauce. 

Bird-Nest Budding. 

Take ten eggs, nine tablespoonsful of flour, 
one quart of milk. Take the core out of your 
apples, fill them with sugar, butter, and nut- 
meg. Place them in a pan and pour the batter 
over them. Bake until the apples are done. 

BlacTcbei'i^y Budding. 

One-quarter of a pound of butter, the same 
of sugar and flour, a quarter of a pound also of 
grated bread, three pints of blackberries, three 
eggs, and a half teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of cream, or one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. 

BlanC'Mange. 

Three tablespoonsful of corn-starch mixed 
with a little milk, the yolks of four eggs beaten 
light, four tablespoonsful of sugar — when the 
milk boils pour it over the eggs, put in the 
corn-starch, and flavor with vanilla. This re- 
quires a quart of milk. 



DESSERTS. , 37 

Bread Pudding. 

Take two thick slices of bread across the 
loaf, pour boiling water over it, when soft pour 
off the water, mash the bread very fine, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, one pint milk. Beat the sugar and eggs 
together, then stir in the milk; flavor to taste. 
Mix all together and bake it. In winter a 
piece of suet the size of an Qgg may be substi- 
tuted for the butter, but 'iiot in summer. 

Centennial Baked Apjde Dumx>lings. 

Take one pint of flour, a heaped table- 
spoonful of lard, two heaped teaspoonsful 
of yeast powder, a little salt, and sufficient 
milk to make a soft dough. Divide it into 
twelve portions, rolling each into a thin round 
cake. Chop fine sixteen apples, into which 
stir sufficient sugar to sweeten pleasantly, and 
half a grated nutmeg. Put into each cake of 
dough as much chopped apple as will fill it, 
and leave a margin for joining and forming 
into a ball. Put these balls into a deep pan or 
dish, and nearly cover them with water. Be- 
tween o^ch dumpling put a small piece of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of sugar to make the 
sauce. Lastly, a small piece of butter on the 
top of each to brown them. Bake half hour. 



88 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Chocolate Blanc- Manje. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, four ounces of 
chocolate, six tablespoonsful of white sugar, 
half box gelatine. Let the gelatine soak half 
hour in the milk; grate the chocolate and mix 
with a little milk. When the milk and gela- 
tine begin to boil, stir in the chocolate— have 
the eggs and sugar well beaten together, then 
pour the boiling mixture on them, stirring all 
the time — return to the fire and let boil hard 
for ten minutes. Put in moulds to cool. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Two cocoanuts grated, half pound sugar, 
half pound butter, whites of eleven eggs, cream 
butter, sugar and eggs together, then add the 
cocoanuts. Bake in a paste. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Half pound of butter and half pound of fine 
sugar beaten to a cream, half pound of cocoanut 
grated fine, then add in the whites of six eggs 
beaten light. Rose-water to your taste. This 
quantity will make two puddings, baked in a 
paste. 



DESSERTS. 39 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter beaten to a 
cream, one egg, two teaspoons cream of tartar 
well mixed in two cups flour, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in one cup milk, and stirred in at the 
last when ready to put in the oven; season to 
taste. Bake half hour. Wine sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of milk, two tablespoonsful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. Beat well together. 
Bake half an hour, and eat with sauce. 

Crah Apple Jelly. 

Pick and w^ash your apples, put them on with 
water enough to cover them w^ell. Simmer 
until the skins peel off easily. Then take them 
from the fire, and allow three and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of white sugar to four pints of 
juice. Put the juice over the fire, and let it 
boil well, taking off the scum as it rises. After 
the scum ceases to rise, put in the sugar, and 
stir until it has all dissolved. Take from the 
fire and put it in small jelly glasses. 



40 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Cream Pie. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one cup and a half of flour, two-thirds of a cup 
of milk, one egg, two spoonsful of yeast powder. 
Roll. Beat together one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful corn-starch, one tablespoonful flour, and 
two of sugar. Stir it into a half pint of milk, 
and boil to thick custard. Flavor with vanilla. 
Spread and pile for cream pie. 

Cream Puffk. 

Six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, and one tumbler of cold w^ater. Put 
the water into a pan with the butter, and let it 
come to a boil. Throw in the flour all at once, 
and let it boil until the flour is well cooked. 
When cold, add the eggs one at a time. Beat 
each one well into the flour, before adding the 
other. Drop tablespoon sful in muffin rings, 
and bake. 

Cream for filling the above. — One tumbler of 
milk, half cup sugar, quarter of a cup of flour, 
one egg. Stir over the fire until it thickens. 
Flavor to taste. When the puffs are cold, 
split them, and fill with the cream. 



DESSERTS. 41 

Flavoring for Oustards, Cakes y etc. 

Take twenty drops of oil of bitter almonds, 
drop them on a small lump of magnesia. Place 
a funnel in the mouth of a bottle. Get a piece 
of '' filtering paper" from a druggist. Rub 
smoothly together on the middle of this paper, 
the magnesia and oil of almonds. Place in the 
funnel, and over this pour one pint of cold 
water. When filtered it is ready for use. Any 
other essential oil may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

Flori7idine. 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in four table- 
spoons of rice-flour, let it boil ten minutes. 
Add one teacup of sugar, grated nutmeg or 
vanilla, a gill of cream, five eggs beaten sepa- 
rately until very light. Bake in paste. 

Fritters. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into 
one pint of boiling water. Stir into this suffi- 
cient flour to make it very stiff. Beat smooth ; 
as it cools, beat in five eggs (one at a time). 
Drop by spoonsful into hot lard. Serve with 
wine and sugar. 

4* 



42 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Foam Sauce. 

One teacup sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one teaspoonful of flour, beat smoothly; 
then place over fire and stir in three gills of 
boiling water, and flavor with wine or extract. 

French Puff-Pasie. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of 
lard, a half pound of butter, and a half pint of 
water. This quantity will make two pies and 
two puddings. 

Frozen Custard. 

Take two quarts of milk, twelve eggs, and 
sixteen tablespoousful of sugar, and make a 
custawl ; flavor when cold with vanilla, and 
then freeze as ice-cream. 

Oelatine Jelly. 

To a package of gelatine add one pint of 
cold water, the juice of three lemons and the 
rind of one. Let it stand one hour; then add 
two and a half pints of boiling water, one pint 
of wine, and two pounds of white sugar ; strain 
and run into moulds. A tablespoonful of 
brandy improves it, and the flavor may be 
varied by the addition of three or four whole 
cloves or a stick or two of cinnamon. 



DESSERTS. 43 

Ground Corn Pudding. 

Stir three-quarters of a pound of butter into 
two pounds of warm mush, then add the yolks 
of six eggs, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind of one, with sugar, and spice to taste. 
Bake in paste. 

Orits Pudding. 

Take one cup grits, boil it; when boiled add 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one quart 
milk, four eggs, half nutmeg, one wineglass of 
wine. Bake in an earthen dish. Ornament 
with spots of currant jelly. This quantity 
makes two good-sized puddings. 

Hen's Nest. 

Get fine eggs, make a hole at one end and 
empty the shells, fill with blanc-mange. "When 
stifle and cold take off the shells. Pare the 
yellow rinds from six lemons, boil them in 
water till tender, then cut in strips to resemble 
straw^, and preserve in sugar. Fill a small dish 
half full of nice jelly, when it is set put the 
strips of lemon on it in the form of a nest, and 
lay the eggs on it. To make the blanc-mange : 
Break one ounce of isinglass into very small 
pieces, wash it well, and pour on one pint of 



44 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

boiling water. Next morning add one quart of 
milk, boil until the isinglass dissolves; strain 
it, put in two ounces of sweet almonds pound- 
ed; sweeten it, and put it in the egg-shells. 
Julep straws can be used instead of the lemon 
strips. 

Iced Apples. 

Pare and core twelve large apples, fill with 
sugar, very little butter and cinnamon, bake till 
nearly done. Let them cool, and, if you can 
without breaking, put on another dish, if not, 
pour off the juice, have some icing prepared, 
lay on top and sides, and set into the oven a 
minute or two to brown slightly. Serve with 
cream. 

liberie Spanish Cream. 

Take half box gelatine to a quart of milk, let 
it dissolve in the milk while heating, which is 
best stirred all the time to prevent burning. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with five tablespoons- 
ful of sugar. As soon as the milk boils, pour 
it on the beaten yolks, and return to the fire, 
stirring all the time. As soon as it comes to 
the consistency of custard, have ready the well- 
beaten whites, and when the custard has been 
two or three minutes off the fire, stir the whites 
in thoroughly. Flavor to taste. Pour into 
moulds, which have been dipped in cold water. 



DESSERTS. 45 

Jelly {without boiling). 

To one package of " Cox's Sparkling Gela- 
tine," add one pint of cold water, the juice of 
three lemons, and the rinds pared very thin. 
Let it stand one hour, then add three pints of 
boiling water, half pint wine, and one and a half 
pounds white sugar. When the sugar is dis- 
solved, strain the lemon rinds out, and set it 
away to cool. 

Lefinoii Meringue. 

Two large lemons (rind and juice), two tea- 
cups sugar, one teacup milk, two tablespoons 
corn-starch dissolved in the milk, yolks of six 
eggs. Beat the yolks light, add the sugar and 
lemon, and milk with corn-starch. Place in a 
paste, and bake it. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth with eight tablespoons of sugar, 
put it on the pie, and replace in the oven until 
it is a light brown. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Three potatoes boiled and well mashed, rind 
of three and juice of two lemons, half a pound 
butter, half a pound sugar, yolks of eleven eggs. 
Cream the sugar, butter, and eggs together, 
then add lemon and potato. 



46 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Lemon Pudding. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoons- 
fiil of flour, and milk to fill the plate. Merin- 
gue. 

Meringue Pudding. 

Pour one quart of boiling milk upon one pint 
of grated bread crumbs, one teacup of granu- 
lated sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a lump of 
butter the size of an ^g^^ and the grated rind 
of one lemon. Stir well, and when cool add the 
well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Pour this mix- 
ture in a buttered dish and bake. When it is 
done, let it stand until cold, then pour over it a 
m6ringue formed of the whites of six eggs, two 
cups of pulverized sugar, and juice of one lemon. 
Put it in a hot oven until browned over the top. 

Mince Meat Pudding. 

One pint and a half of milk, six eggs, and as 
much bread as will make it sufficiently thick, 
three or four tablespoonsful of mince meat, one 
quarter of a pound of butter, and spice and 
sugar to your taste. Baked without paste. 



Orange Jelly. 



uranyt ottty. 

One half package of gelatine, half pint cold 
water, half pint boiling water, two cups of 



^J 



DESSERTS. 47 

sugar, juice of five oranges, and two lemons. 
Strain into moulds. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Pare a half peck of peaches, and wash them ; 
sweeten them with a pound and a half of sugar, 
and stir in two quarts of milk; then freeze. 

Plombiere. 

One pint of scalded milk, one pint of cream, 
one teaspoonful isinglass, one handful seedless 
raisins, one ounce of citron, shreds of preserved 
pineapple, ginger, or cherries, four tablespoons- 
ful of wine ; sugar to your taste, a little extract 
of almonds, the whites of four eggs beaten stiff. 
Freeze as ice cream. 

Plum Pvdding. 

Thirteen eggs, one pound of sugar, a small 
loaf of stale bread (grated), one pound of rai- 
sins, one pound of currants, one pound of suet, 
a quarter of a pound of citron, and a handful 
of flour. 

,Plum Pudding {without eggs). 

One cup molasses, one cup suet, one cup milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, as much 
flour as will make a very stift' batter. Boil two 
hours, and serve with any kind of sauce. 



48 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Potato Pudding. 

One pound finely mashed potatoes, quarter 
pound butter, quarter pound sugar, half nut- 
meg, three eggs. Bake in paste without a top 
crust, or in a deep dish without any paste. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a 
pint of boiling water, a little thickening of flour ; 
boil a few minutes and add one egg well beaten, 
flavor with brandy, or wine, or nutmeg. This 
cannot be excelled. 

Pvff Paste. 

One pound and a quarter of sifted flour, one 
pound of butter cut in quarters ; take a pound 
of flour, and with a knife cut fine one of the 
quarters of butter into the flour, wet it with 
half a pint of ice-water, then roll it out and lay 
in the other quarter of butter in small pieces, 
and dredge a part of the remaining flour over 
the butter, and roll again, so continuing until 
the butter is all used. 

Rice Coquettes. 

One teacup of rice, boiled in a pint of milk and 
the same of water, until quite tender and very 



} 



DESSERTS. 49 

dry ; while hot add a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, two tablespoonsful of white sugar, two 
eggs, juice and grated peel of one lemon, or 
essence of lemon; stir well and dry on the 
stove. Have ready the yolks of two eggs beaten 
on a plate, some fine cracker crumbs on another, 
make up the rice into rolls, dip first in the egg, 
then the cracker, and fry in hot lard to a light 
brown ; sprinkle powdered sugar over them. 

Rice-Flour Paddi7ig. 

Put to boil one quart of milk, reserving a tea- 
cupful to mix five tablespoonsful of rice flour. 
When the milk boils, put in the mixed flour, 
and stir it until it thickens a little. When 
slightly cool, stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, 
w^ith six tablespoonsful of white sugar. When 
ready to bake, mix in the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor with the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon, or a glass of 
rose-water. 

nice Pudding (without eggs). 

Wash a small coffee cup of rice and put it 
into three pints of milk over night, in the 
morning add a piece of butter half the size of 



50 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

an eggj one teacup of sugar, a little salt, nut- 
meg and cinnamon ; bake two and a half hours. 
After it has become hot enough to melt the 
butter, stir it from the bottom (without moving 
the dish) ; if raisins are to be used stir them in 
now. 

Hiz-au-Ijait 

Soak two tablespoons of rice in a quart of 
milk. When soaked, add one saltspoon of salt, 
a small stick of cinnamon, half cup sugar. 
Place in a well-heated oven. Cook slowly two 
hours. 

• 

Sally Lunii; or. Cake Pudding. 

Take a piece of butter the size of an egg^ and 
cream with two cups of sugar — then of a cup 
of sweet milk add half — mix well and stir in 
one cup of flour, then the other half of milk 
and a second cup of flour. Of four eggs well 
beaten add one-half, and then the third cup of 
flour — then the remaining half of eggs and the 
fourth cup of flour, in which must be put a tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. The whole well 
beaten and put in the oven to bake — will take 
an hour or so. This makes a nice Sally Lunn 
for supper, or, eaten with cold sauce, makes a 
nice dessert. 



DESSERTS. 51 

Snow Pudding. 

Half box gelatine, half pint of cold water — 
let it soak half hour — then add half pint boiling 
water. When cold, add the whites of three 
eggs beaten a little, two cups of sugar, juice 
of two lemons. Beat three-quarters of an hour. 
Put in moulds to cool ; make a custard of the 
yolks and flavor with vanilla, to eat over it. 

Superior Mince-Meat. 

One pound of chopped meat, one pound and 
a half of chopped suet, two pounds of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, half pound jof citron, 
half teaspoonful ground cloves, two orange 
rinds dried and pounded, one tablespoonful 
ground ginger, one of cinnamon and allspice 
(mixed), one teaspoonful of mace, one dozen 
pippin apples chopped fine, three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of wine, one pint of cider, one 
pint of brandy, and a little salt. 

Tapioca and Apples. 

Soak two tablespoons of tapioca in one pint 
of water three hours, then sweeten it with one 
cup of sugar. Pare and core twelve pippin 
apples, fill with sugar,' pour the tapioca over 
them, and bake. When done, grate nutmeg 
oyer the top. 



52 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

To three pints of milk stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of flour or arrowroot, the yolks of six eggs 
well beaten. Stir until it boils. Sweeten to 
taste, and flavor strongly with vanilla. Use 
when cold. 

WhortlebetTy Pudding. 

Two cups of sugar, five eggs, three cups of 
flour, half cup cream ; make up thick with 
whortleberries. Add a little yeast powder. 
Bake or boil several hours. 



PICKLES. 

Black Walnut Pickles. 

Take them in the spring when you can run a 
needle easily through them. First wash and 
wipe them, then stick them all over with a large 
needle. Take three large onions and stick them 
full of cloves. Put your walnuts in a stone 
jar, arranging them with one of the onions at 
the bottom, one in the middle, and one at the 
top, then cover the whole with cold vinegar, 
and tie the jar over closely to exclude the air. 
The longer you can keep them before using, the 
better you will find them, as age improves them. 



PICKLES. 53 

Chow-Chow Pickle. 

Eight heads cabbage, six large onions, cut 
and salt over night. Press the water from this, 
then add two pounds sugar, one ounce mace, 
two ounces cinnamon, one-quarter ounce cloves, 
two ounces celery seed, one ounce ginger, two 
ounces turmeric, six gre^n and six red peppers 
(having removed the seed); add enough cold 
vinegar to covei' the whole. 

Chow- Chmu. 

Two colanders cut tomatoes, six large peppers, 
one colander sliced onions, one colander or thirty- 
six cucumbers (sliced), two ounces of mace, 
two tablespoonsful ground black pepper, half 
pound of mustard seed, two tablespoonsful 
ginger, two tablespoonsful of mustard, one 
ounce of celery seed, one pint of salt, one 
pound of sugar, half gallon of vinegar, two 
ounces of black mustard seed, two tablespoons- 
ful of allspice. Boil hard one hour; stir well 
to prevent burning; when done add two table- 
spoonsful of turmeric. 

Cucumber Catsup^ No. 1. 

Pare your cucumbers closely and grate them. 
Season to your taste with salt, pepper, and vine- 
gar. Mix and put in bottles, which without 



5» 



54 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

corking you will place in a vessel of cold water 
and set on the stove, letting the water boil for 
two or three hours, until the catsup is done. 

Cucumber Catsup^ No. 2. 

Three dozen full-grown cucumbers, one dozen 
onions ; cut the cucumbers and onions in small 
pieces, sprinkle them with salt, and let them 
stand twenty-four hours. Then drain off the 
water, put to them mace, cloves, and cayenne 
pepper. Cover them with cold vinegar, and 
pour over a little sweet oil to exclude the air. 

Oucurnber PicTcles. 

Wash and wipe two hundred cucumbers, 
place them in stone jars. Make a pickle that 
will bear an ^gg^ boil it, and pour boiling hot 
over the cucumbers, and some peppers. Cover 
the jars with a double cloth, plate, and weight, 
and let them remain twenty-four hours. Then 
take them out, and wipe them dry. After drjing 
the jars return the pickles to them. Boil the 
vinegar with whatever spices you like, mustard 
seed, cloves of garlic, one pound brown sugar, 
and pour boiling hot over the pickles. The 
sugar strengthens the vinegar, without leaving 
a sweet taste on the pickles. 



PICKLFS. 55 

Oacwinber Pickles {quickly made). 

Wash and drain the cucumbers, then place 
thein in your jar, with a large onion stuck with 
cloves. Cover them with strong scalding brine, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours ; then 
pour it off, and take sufficient vinegar to fill the 
jar, put it in your preserving kettle with a small 
lump of alum, a teacup of white mustard seed, 
one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, two 
of black pepper, put it over the fire, and let it 
boil a few minutes, then pour it over the cucum- 
bers while scalding hot. Tie them up imme- 
drately. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Three dozen cucumbers, eight large onions 
chopped fine, and add one cup and a half of salt. 
Place in a colander to drain eight hours, then 
add half cup of black pepper, half pound of 
white mustard seed, and three pints of vinegar. 
Mix well together, bottle for use. The size of 
the cucumbers regulates somewhat the quantity 
of vinegar; medium size preferred. 

East India Pickle. 

Cut fine one white cabbage, four or five onions, 
a root of horseradish. "With this take radish 



66 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

pods, beans, cauliflowers, small onions, large 
and small cucumbers, green peppers, and any- 
thing else you like. Soak all in salt and water 
twenty-four hours. When drained, boil your 
vinegar with red peppers, white and brown 
mustard seed, one quarter pound of each. When 
boiling hot, pour it over the pickle. Mix one 
pint bowl of mustard as for the table, and mix 
it into the pickle, also one teaspoon of cayenne 
pepper and one of mace. 

French PicTcle. 

One peck green tomatoes, one quarter peck 
onions, slice them and sprinkle thickly with salt, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours. One 
quarter pound mustard seed, one ounce cloves, 
one ounce allspice, one quarter pound mixed 
mustard, two tablespoons of ground black 
pepper, one of red pepper, one ounce celery 
seed, one pound brown sugar, three quarts 
vinegar. Cook slowly for three or four hours. 
Mix the mustard with vinegar, and pour over 
the pickle when cold. 

Mangoes {Sweet PicJcle). 

Fill a three-gallon jar with mangoes and cu- 
cumbers and cover them with strong brine. 



r 



PICKLES. 57 

After letting them stand several days pour off 
the brine, and boil it and pour it hot over the 
pickles again. Do this every third morning 
until you have scalded them three times. You 
are then to mix equal quantities of vinegar and 
water and scald them three times as before. 
Keep them covered with cabbage leaves to 
keep in the steam. To prepare the stuffing for 
the mangoes, take one teacup of black pepper, 
one of allspice, one and a half of ginger, one 
ounce of cloves, and one of mace ; beat them, but 
not fine. Take half of the spices after they are 
beaten, reserving the other half for the cucum- 
bers. Add one small cabbage chopped, one pint 
black mustard seed, one of white, two cups 
scraped horseradish, two pounds and a half of 
brown sugar. Mix all well, and fill the man- 
goes, adding to the stuffing half teacup celery 
seed. Take the other half of the spices, with 
two pounds and a half more sugar, and boil 
them with as much vinegar as will cover the 
three gallons of pickles. Pour it on hot. 

Spanish PicTde. 

Three dozen large cucumbers, four large green 
peppers, half peck onions, half peck green toma- 
toes cut in pieces. Sprinkle with one pint of salt, 
and let it stand all night. Drain the next morn- 



58 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

iiig, and add one ounce of mace, one ounce of 
white pepper, one ounce white mustard seed, 
half ounce of cloves, one pound and a half of 
brown sugar, and one piece of horseradish. 
Cover with vinegar and boil half hour. 

Sweet Pickled Damsons. 

Take seven pounds damsons, w^ipe dry, add 
one ounce cinnamon, one ounce cloves, put a 
layer of each in a jar. Then boil one quart of 
sharp vinegar with three pounds of sugar, skim 
it, and pour it boiling hot over the damsons, 
let them stand twenty-four hours. The next 
day pour the juice off, boil it again and pour it 
over the damsons. After they stand another 
twenty-four hours, boil the whole, just scalding 
the fruit. Place in jars when quite cold, and 
cover them with the syrup. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

Take eighteen pounds of peaches, rub them 
with a coarse towel (or pare them), halve them. 
Put eight pounds sugar into one quart of vine- 
gar, a handful of cloves, a handful of stick cin- 
namon, one tablespoon mace. 

Place the sugar, vinegar, and spice into the 
preserving kettle. When it boils, throw in 



PICKLES. 59 

the peaches, boil until clear, remove the peaches, 
and boil the syrup until it thickens. 

Sweet Pickled Strawberries. 

One pound and a half of sugar, half pint of 
vinegar, two quarts of picked berries. Boil the 
sugar and vinegar, skim it well, and while 
boiling pour in the berries, let them simmer 
twenty-five or thirty minutes, then rempve the 
berries, being careful not to mash them, and let 
the syrup boil a half hour longer. Put in the 
fruit, just allow it to heat, and pour all into 
your glasses. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Choose those that are round, halve them, take 
out the green core, put on the fire in a bell-metal 
kettle; whenbursted, pass through a sieve; let 
stand until the water settles on the top, pour 
off one-third of the water; and to every gallon 
of tomatoes add not quite one-fourth pound of 
whole allspice, a stick of horseradish, a scant 
tablespoon cayenne pepper, a little whole mace, 
and six onions, salt to taste, one-half pint strong 
vinegar. Boil until it thickens in the spoon, 
pass through a colander; to each bottle add one 
clove of garlic ; bottle it when cool, cork tight, 
and dip the corked bottle into a cement com- 



60 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

posed of equal parts of rosin and beeswax. 
Shake before using. Keep in a dark place. 

Tomato Soy. 

One and a half peeks of green tomatoes, half 
a peck of onions, one large pint of salt ; slice 
the tomatoes and onions, sprinkle the salt over, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours; drain off 
all the water, and boil twenty minutes in weak 
vinegar and water, then drain; boil three pints 
of vinegar and four pounds and a half of brown 
sugar; spices, one tablespoonful of ginger, two 
tablespoons ful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful 
of cloves, two of mace, two of black pepper, and 
four of celery seed, also three of mustard ; mix 
thie mustard as for table use, and .stir it into the 
vinegar; put in the tomatoes and onions, and let 
them get hot through. 



PRESERVES. 

Apple Jelly. 

To one peck of sour, juicy apples, take two 
quarts of water, boil the apples until they are 
perfectly soft, then strain through flannel. To 
one pint of juice add one pint of sugar; after the 



PRESERVES. . 61 

sugar is dissolved strain again, and boil rapidly 
until done. Have ready two large fresh lemons 
cut in slices, over which pour the jelly boiling 
hot. Fine, sour, juicy apples, although they 
may be red, will make equally as nice jelly as 
lighter ones. 

BlacTcberry Syrup. 

Extract the juice from the blackberries, and 
to every quart of strained juice allow three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a heaped 
teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, the same of 
cloves, and a large nutmeg, grated; mix the 
spices with the juice and sugar, and boil in a 
porcelain kettle, skimming it well ; when cold, 
stir into each quart of made syrup half a pint of 
fourth-proof brandy, then bottle for use. 

Preserved Burr Oucurnbers. 

Take out the insides and let them lie in salt 
and water four days, then soak them in fresh 
water two hours, then boil them in fresh water 
with a small lump of alum and a few peach 
leaves, then boil in clear water, then make a 
syrup, allowing five pounds of sugar to four 
pounds of cucumbers, flavoring with lemon and 
ginger to your taste, in which hoil your cucum- 
bers until perfectly done. 

6 



62 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Preserved Pineapple. 

Pare and slice the pineapple, and to every 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, and a pint of water to every pound of 
sugar ; make a syrup, and boil and skim until 
clear, then add your fruit and boil until clear, 
tender, and done. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

Pare the pineapple and cut out the eyes, and 
grate ; then to every pound of fruit add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and boil until 
clear and done. 

Preserved Cantaloupe. 

Cut the cantaloupe in slices and take off the 
rind ; to eight pounds of fruit allow six pounds 
of sugar, one pound of green ginger, and four 
lemons. 

Preserved Limes. 

Take the limes when green, put them in 
strong salt and water (strong enough to bear 
an ^gg)^ for six weeks or longer. Then put 
them in fresh cold water for twenty-four hours, 
changing the water every three hours. Cut 
them in halves, and clean them entirely of 



PRESERVES. 63 

pulp, simmer them in saleratus water, until 
perfectly tender (one teaspoonful to six quarts 
of water), put them again in cold water for 
twenty-four hours, changing often. To each 
pound of fruit two pounds and a half of sugar, 
and two pints of water. Boil the syrup fif- 
teen or twenty minutes before you put in the 
limes. Boil the whole one hour and twenty 
minutes. 

To Can Pineapple. 

Pare the fruit, then tear the meat from the 
stalk with a fork. To six pounds of fruit put 
two pounds of sugar. Cook thirty minutes. 
Then can. 

To Can Quinces. 

Take the parings and cores from one peck 
of quinces, and boil them well. Strain the 
liquor through a bag, and to this put five 
pounds sugar, then add the quinces, and boil 
till tender. Then can. 

To Preserve the Heart of Watermelon. 

To one pound of fruit take one-half pound of 
white sugar, and to the fruit of one water- 
melon, put the rinds of six lemons, pared and 
cut into shreds, a few blades of mace. 



64 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Boil the fruit until clear, and boil the syrup 
until it thickens. Ginger is sometimes pre- 
ferred for flavoring instead of lemon. 

To Pi^eserve Pears. 

Pare and (if large) halve them, leaving the 
stems on. Place in a syrup of one pound of 
sugar and one-half pint of water, one pound 
of pears, with some green ginger and sliced 
lemon. Boil until clear, but boil the syrup one 
half hour after the pears are done. 

To Preserve Citron. 

Cut the citron into pieces the size and shape 
you fancy. Pare the green rind ofil Place 
the citron in water, with two tablespoons of 
salt, and let it stand all night. 

The next morning put it in clear cold water 
and soak one hour. Place the citron in another 
• water in the preserving kettle, with a lump of 
alum half the size of an egg^ and boil it until 
somewhat tender. Remove the fruit, and put 
it once more into clear cold water for one hour. 
To six pounds of fruit put seven and a half 
pounds of sugar, juice of two lemons, and the 
rind pared very thin and cut into shreds, six 
cloves, two small sticks of cinnamon, and ginger 
to your taste. Boil until clear and tender. 



i ft n. ' j^l /yvtt r^^^^ 

Dp g^OA.*^ ' ^ ,'■■ •  _ V 









f 



1 



I . 




i 



N 



WESTMINSTER 



Cook Boop 



r 



^ 



TX. 



#m^ 







iiiiMiiiiiiiikiliHiiiiHiMililM 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS. 



i^ 



-w 



I 



|'''V - |wisW $ 



J//u 



^ 



W'b% 



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. 



(O <^'%-'^'%.<^'^<afc^ss.'^ ^>'^<! 



WESTMINSTER 



COOK-BOOK. 



EVERY RECIPE TRIED AND PROVED, 



We may live without poetry, music, and art 
"We may live without conscience, and live without heart. 
We may live without friends, we may live without books. 
But what civilized man can live without cooks? 

He may live without books — what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope — what is hope but deceiving ? 
He may live without love — what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining? 



ONE HUNDKED AND EIGHTY-THKEE RECIPES. 




PHILADELPHIA: 
HOLLOWBUSH AND CAREY, 

423 MARKET STREET. 
1876. 






A^t 



-^ 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1876, by 

HOLLOW BUSH AND CAREY, 

in the office of the Librarian, at Washington. All rights reserved. 



WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 



SOUPS. 

Soups. 

"We have deemed it unnecessary to give re- 
cipes for the common every-day soups. Beef 
and veal form the stock, with such vegetables 
and herbs as suit the tastes of the household. 
For ivJiite soups veal is best ; for hrown, use 
beef and the bones and trimmings of other 
meats and poultry. Always use cold water, 
and after it begins to boil, place it in a position 
where it will simmer only, but be sure to keep it 
simmering for four or five hours, with the pot 
closely covered. In winter, sufficient stock 
may be made to last several days, and this 
quantity should boil all day. A portion can 
be used with sliced vegetables as vegetable 
soup, one day ; with vermicelli, another day ; 
and again, with tomatoes and the addition of a 
little catsup as tomato soup. To color soups, 
use for thickening flour that has been previously 
browned in the oven. 



4 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Clam Soitj), 

To a gallon of cut-up clams and their liquor, 
well boiled and strained, put a cup and a half 
of cream, two tablespoonsful of flour creamed 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, and well 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and mace. 

Crab 8oiip, 

Three dozen crabs boiled and picked, divide 
them equally, boil again one half in a full gal- 
lon of water, with salt and mace, for about an 
hour. Then take off and strain, put the soup 
on again with a teacup of cream, quarter of a 
pound of butter, two and a half tablespoonsful 
of flour creamed with the butter and scalded 
with a little of the hot soup, a tablespoonful of 
mixed mustard, black and red pepper. Have 
in your tureen the remaining dozen and a half 
crabs cleanly picked, and pour the hot soup 
upon them, and serve without delay, for it is 
delicious. 

Oyster Soup, 

One and a half cups of cream to a gallon of 
oysters and liquor, two tablespoonsful of flour, 
creamed with a quarter of a pound of butter 
and well seasoned with pepper, salt, and mace. 



MEATS. 5 

M EATS. 

Asparagus, 

Take two bunches of freshly gathered aspa- 
ragus, cut in small pieces, and boil until tender 
in water enough to cover it, having first put 
into this water one dessertspoonful of sugar. 
Then add one pint of milk, butter, pepper, and 
salt to taste, and let it just come up to a boil. 

Be sure and not hoil it. Serve in deep plates. 

Baked Hain, 

Boil until quite done, then remove the skin. 
Rub together one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two 
of ground cloves, two of grated nutmeg, two 
tablespoons of brown sugar. Make incisions 
with a knife all over the top the depth of the 
fat, into which force the mixture. The balance 
must be rubbed over the top, then cover the 
surface thickly with bread crumbs. Bake 
slowly about one-half hour, basting frequently 
with the essence to keep it from burning. 

Corn Oysters, 

Grate down twelve ears of corn, beat two eggs 

very light, stir well together with pepper and 

salt, add two tablespoons of powdered cracker, 

fry in lard. 

1^ 



6 WESTMINSTER COOK BOOK. 

Croquettes, 

Having chopped fine your meat, take some 
grated bread crumbs, and season with salt, pep- 
per, mace, nutmeg, and grated lemon rind. 
Moisten the whole with cream, and make into 
small cones. Have ready some beaten eggs, 
mix with grated bread, dip into it each cro- 
quette and fry slowly in butter. 

Deviled Crabs, 

One dozen crabs, a small loaf of baker's bread, 
three teaspoonsful of mixed mustard, two of 
black pepper, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, and 
one of salt, teacup of vinegar, and five ounces 
of butter. Bake in shells. 

Drawn Butter. 

Mix tAvo or three teaspoonsful of flour with a 
little cold w^ater, stir until clear of lumps, thin 
it, and pour on a half pint of boiling w^ater, 
stirring constantly. Boil it two or three 
minutes; then cut up four ounces of butter in 
it, and melt and stir; add hard-boiled eggs 
sliced or minced as desired. 



MEATS. 



Mock Oysters. 

A pint of boiled hominy, two Q^^g% a teacup 
of flour, a tablespoonful of butter (melted), 
pepper and salt to taste ; mix all well together, 
make in little cakes and fry a light brown. 

M(xh Terrapin, 

Season and fry brown a calf's liver, then hash 
it fine, dust thickly with flour, two tablespoons- 
ful of mixed mustard, a little cayenne pepper, 
three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and a teacup of water. 
Let it simmer a few minutes, then serve hot. 

Omelet, 

Three teaspoonsful of fresh milk to each egg^ 
a little salt, beat the eggs light, add the milk, 
and cook, stirring all the time. 

Slaw Dressing, 

The yolks of two eggs well beaten, two tea- 
spoonsful of sugar, one of mustard, one of salt, 
one of black pepper, beat all together; add one 
teacup of cream or milk, and half a cup of 
vinegar. Set on the fire and stir until it be- 
comes as thick as boiled custard. Let it come 
to a boil. 



8 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Sjnced Beef, 

Four pounds of tender beef minced fine, one 
pound suet chopped tine, mix them together; 
one spoonful of cloves, half the quantity of 
pepper, salt to your taste, a teacup of water. 
Mix all together, then pack in a tin pan the 
size to suit the quantity. Put in the oven and 
bake an hour and a half. This is a delightful 
relish for tea, cut thin. 

Sausage Meat. 

To twenty-nine pounds of chopped meat, add 
eleven ounces of salt, nine heaped tablespoons- 
ful of freshly rubbed sage, five tablespoonsful 
of ground black pepper. If cayenne pepper is 
liked, put to this a half teaspoonful of ground 
cayenne. 

Sauce for Cold Meats. 

Boil two eggs three minutes, mix a small 
teaspoonl'ul of mixed mustard, a little pepper 
and salt — six spoonsful of drawn butter or oil, 
six of vinegar, and one of catsup. 

Tarhey or Chicken Patties. 

Mince fine your cold fowl, together with 
some cold boiled ham or tongue; add the yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs grated, a little cayenne 



MEATS. 9 

pepper, some powdered mace, and nutmeg. 
Mix and moisten with cream or bntter. Have 
ready some puff paste in pattypans, and fill 
with the mixture. Add oysters, and warm 
with hot shovel. 

Tomato Beef, 

Take five pounds of beef oflP the end of the 
surloin, place it in a pot with sufficient water 
to keep it from burning, and no more. It 
should be turned often, let it brown, cook one 
hour, then add twelve tomatoes, half an onion 
chopped fine, pepper and salt. After adding 
the tomatoes, stew one hour longer. Serve the 
beef with the tomatoes around it. 

Turkey Sauce, 

Mix two or three teaspoonsful of flour with a 
little cold milk, stir it until clear of lumps, thin 
it and pour on a half-pint of boiling milk, stir- 
ring constantly. Boil it two or three minutes. 
Then cut up four ounces of butter in it, melt, 
and stir and add one pint of oysters and celery 
chopped. 

Yeal Patties, 

Three pounds of veal, one pound and a half 
of fresh pork, quarter of a pound of butter, and 
four eggs. Grind the meat fine, add the other 



10 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

ingredients. Season to taste with mnstard, 
pepper, and salt. Eoll into shape. Set them 
in the oven and brown over. To be eaten cold. 



BREADS. 

Bridgeton Rolls, 
One qnart of new milk, one cup and a half 
of lard and butter mixed, two eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, one and a half cups of yeast, 
and a little salt; make up soft, let them rise, and 
make them out two hours before you bake them. 

Corn Muffins, 
One quart of milk, one and a half pints flour 
(even measure), one-half that quantity of meal, 
sift both together, five eggs beaten very light 
(yolks and whites separately), and added to the 
batter, a little salt; butter small tin muffiu pa7is 
(not rings), bake in a quick oven from twenty 
to twenty -five minutes. 

Flannel Cakes, 

Take three eggs, half-i^int of milk, melt there- 
in a tablespoonful of lard, then add half-pint 
cold water, and one teacup of yeast, mix all 
together, and make the batter as thick as for 
buckwheat cakes. 



BREADS 11 

Laplanders. 
Beat two eggs very light, then add one pint 
milk, one pint flour, one teaspoon salt, beat well 
together, and bake in small tins. This quantity 
makes one dozen. Have the tins lioL 

Light Bread, 

For two loaves of bread, thicken one quart 
of lukewarm water with flour until it will just 
pour easily, add one tablespoonful of salt, half 
teacup yeast; this should be done about 7 P. M. 
About 10 P. M. work in flour until it is nearly 
as stiflP as pie crust, and let it rise again in a 
mass; it will rise high and crack open. When 
it is sufficiently light, mould it into loaves, and 
let it stand about an hour, when it will be ready 
to bake, w^hich you can tell by its cracking open. 
The flour should always be sifted, and the dough 
well kneaded. 

Light Biscuit. 

Two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of 
lard, one pint of milk, and a cup of yeast, and 
a little salt. To be made in the evening if in- 
tended for breakfast, or in the morning for tea. 

Maryland Biscuit. 

Take two quarts of flour, one-quarter pound 
lard, and a little salt. Mix with as little water 



12 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

as possible, and then knead it until soft. Break 
up into pieces, and roll into shape, prick with a 
fork, and bake them in a quick oven. To be 
good, they must be worked a great deal. 

Muffin Bread, 

Make up over night just as you would light 
bread only softer, adding two eggs, a mixed 
spoonful of butter and lard, one teaspoon of 
sugar at the time you make it up. Mould out 
only in one loaf as you would rolls, and let it 
rise again before baking. Bake in a pie plate 
(it is stiff enough not to run over). Split in 
half, butter, lay lightly together again, and send 
to the table hot. Serve in quarters. 

Muffins, 

Take three eggs, half pint of milk and water 
in equal quantities, melt therein a tablespoon- 
ful of lard, then add half pint cold water, one 
teacup of yeast, mix all together and stir in 
flour to make it a thick fritter batter. 

Quick Light Cake for Breakfast, 

Mix dry and well rubbed together two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, with one quart of 
flour, then dissolve three-quarters of a tea- 
spoonful of super-carbonate of soda in a suffi- 



BREADS. 13 

cient quantitj of sweet milk (about a pint), 
mix the whole together, and bake immediately. 
Split and butter. Serve while hot. 

Sally Liiinn, 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one quart of 
flour, half a teacup of veast. Put this to rise, 
and when light beat in one cup of melted butter. 
Then put it into your pan or pans, and let it 
rise again, and bake when light. 

Bally Tjunn {with yeast). 

"Warm one quart of milk with quarter pound 
of butter, two heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
half a nutmeg. Beat up three eggs and put 
in, with a little salt, and flour enough to make 
it stifler than pound cake. Beat it well. Add 
a teacup of yeast, and let it rise. Butter a 
fluted cake mould and pour it in Bake in a 
quick oven one hour. 

If you wish tea at 7 o'clock, set it to rise at 
11A.M. 

Sally Lunn {without yeast). 

One quart of flour, a piece of butter the size 
of an egg^ three tablespoons of sugar, two eggs, 
two teacups milk, two teaspoons of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoon of saleratus, a little salt. 



14 "WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

To mix it scatter the cream of tartar, the salt, 
and the sugar into the flour. Add the eggs 
without having beaten them, the butter melted, 
and one cup of the milk. Dissolve thesaleratus 
in the remaining cup, and then stir all together 
steadily a few minutes. This makes two loaves. 
Add spice and twice the measure of sugar, and 
you have a good plain cake for the cake basket. 

Supper Fritters, 

One and a half cups of sugar beaten with 
three eggs, one cup of sour cream, and one and 
a half cups of buttermilk, in which stir a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Add flour enough to make a 
thin muffin-batter, and fry. 

Tea Cake, 

One pint of milk, two eggs, half cup of but- 
ter, half cup of yeast. Make this into a rising, 
and when light knead in sufficient flour to make 
as stifi'as roll dough. Make this into three flat 
cakes, and let it rise again. 

Wafers or Wine Crackers, 

Three pints of flour, one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of lard, one tablespoonful of salt. Eub the 
flour, lard, and salt well together. Make up 



BREADS. 15 

quite stiff. Knead them till soft. Break into 
small pieces and roll them out as thin as wafers. 
Prick with a fork before placing in the oven. 

Wheat Muffins. 

Early in the morning take off a piece of light 
dough, say what has been made from one quart 
of flour. Thin this to the consistency of batter 
by the addition of sweet milk. After beating 
it till smooth, let it rise all together for one 
hour ; then on a delicately greased griddle drop 
the batter from a spoon, and, as soon as lightly 
browned on one side, turn on the other. Serve 
up hot, and tear open instead of cutting with a 
knife. 

Yeast. 

One cup of hops, two quarts of water boiled 
down to one quart, five potatoes boiled and 
mashed, one cup of flour. Mix the potatoes 
and flour together, strain the hop- water over 
them. Put on the stove and let it boil a few 
minutes, then set it aside to cool. When cool 
add one cup of brown sugar and one cup of 
yeast. It will keep sweet several weeks. 



16 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

CAKES. 

A Cheap Cake, 

Four eggs, three cups of flour, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of butter, two 
and a half teaspoousful of yeast powder. Flavor 
with almonds, and bake in a quick oven. 

Albany Cakes. 
One and a half pounds of flour, one pound of 
sugar, half pound of butter, one quarter of an 
ounce of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of lard, 
one teacup of cream, one teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, and one wineglass of rose-water. 

Butter Calce. 

To one pint of warm milk add half a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, and four eggs well 
beaten, the rind of one lemon, a nutmeg, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one cup of yeast, and flour 
enough to make a stiff* batter. If put to rise in 
the evening, it will be ready to bake in the 
morning. Put it in your baking pans half inch 
thick, and set it to rise a second time; when 
light, put small pieces of butter over the top, 
and sift cinnamon and sugar, then it is ready 
for the oven. 



CAKES. 17 



Caromel. 



Three pounds sugar, one and a half cakes 
chocolate, half a pound butter, two cups milk, 
one small bottle extract of vanilla. Boil until 
it thickens, stirring constantly. Pour on but- 
tei-ed plates and bar off. 

Centennial Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of butter, 
cream the butter and suo^ar to<>:ether, six eofo^s. 
Break in an Qgg^ and add a handful of flour, 
and so on until you get the eggs in ; then add 
a glass of ice-water and more flour until it is 
as stiff as pound cake; flavor to taste, and put 
into the flour a tablespoonful of yeast powder. 

Children's Cakes. 

One and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, one 
nutmeg and a half, one and a half small tea- 
cupsful of milk, two teaspoonsful of yeast 
powder, one and a half tablespoonsful of 
brandy, and the same of rose-water. 

Chocolate Cake, 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
two cups flour, yolks and whites of six eggs 



18 AVESTM1^^STER COOK-BOOK. 

beaten separately, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
half teaspoon soda dissolved in half cup sweet 
milk. Bake in layers. Plalf pound Baker's 
chocolate grated fine in half pint milk, iiavoi* 
and sweeten to tnste. Boil this for a few min- 
utes until it thickens. While cooling add one 
egg well beaten. Spread the chocolate upon 
the cake as soon as taken from the oven (as 
you would jelly cake). 

Chocolate CoTce, 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half 
a pound of butter, six eggs, one cup of milk, 
three teaspoonsful of yeast powder. 

Icing — three-quarters of a pound of chocolate, 
grated and mixed with four tablespoonsful of 
milk, put in the oveif to melt, and when melted 
mix with icing the same as white mountain 
cake. This quantity makes two large cakes. 

Coffee Cake, 

One pint of sponge, -lial fa pint of milk, one- 
quarter pound of butter, one-quarter pound of 
lard, add the milk, stir in the sponge, one-half 
pound of brown sugar, two eggs. Scald the 
raisins or currants, wipe them dry, flavor to 
your taste with spice; thicken until the spoon 
stands in the batter. Make up the sponge the 



CAKES. 19 

night before, add the ingredients the next 
morning, nnd it will be fit to bake for tea. 

Cream Cake, 

One tablespoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, 
two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, one ^g^-^ two 
teaspoonsful of cream tartar, one of soda, one 
and two-third cups of flour, flavor wnth vanilla 
or lemon, and bake in la3^ers as for jelly cake. 

Ciqj Cake. 

Two cups of white sugar stirred into one cup 
of butter until quite light, three cups of sifted 
flour, four eggs beaten light (whites and yolks 
separatel^y) ; beat the yolks into the sugar and 
butter, stir the flour in gently, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoon ful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
lastly the whites; beat all well, bake in a mode- 
rate oven in small tins, sift sugar over them. 

Cap Cake, 

Three cups of sngar, one of butter, four of 
flour, one of cream, three eggs, one teaspoon ful 
of pearl ash ; let these ingredients be well beaten 
together, and add spice to your taste. 



20 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

C%; Cede, 

One cup of cream, two cups of butter, three 
cups of sugar, and four cups of flour, five eggs, 
and spice to your taste ; bake thin. 

Caromel. 
Three pounds of sugar, one cake of chocolate, 
half pint of cream, quarter of a pound of butter. 
Season with vanilla. Boil slowly about thirty 
minutes, as it burns easily. 

Delicate CaJce. 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, 
two cui)s flour, four eggs, half cup milk, two 
teaspoons baking powder in the flour. 

Doughnuts. 

Four pounds and a half of flour, two and a 
half pounds of sugai*, six eggs beaten light, 
three half pints of milk (warmed), one pound 
of lard, and two tablespoonsful of good yeast. 
Mix all into a soft dough, let them stand two 
hours before they are rolled, then melt two 
pounds of lard in a kettle, and throw in a few 
at a time. They quickly bake if the lard is 
scalding hot. 



CAKES. 21 

English Cal^e. 

Take five eggs, then the weight of five eggs 
in sugar, the weight of four in flour, the weight 
of three in butter, one nutmeg, and a glass of 
w^ine. 

Everton Taffy. 

One ])ound of sugar, two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar ; soak twelve hours, then add a small 
lump of butter and boil; flavor with vanilla. 

Federal Cakes. 

One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, the 
same of sugar, well rubbed together with half a 
teaspoonful of spice, one egg well beaten, one- 
quarter glass of rose-water, and six drops of 
essence of lemon. Bake in small cakes. 

French Custard Calce. 

Four eggs, one and a half pints of milk, 
lump of butter the size of a walnut, three table- 
spoons corn-starch, one lemon, sugar, and flavor- 
ing to taste. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, two and a half pounds of 
raisins, two and a half pounds of currants, one 



22 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

pound of citron, twelve eggs, four nutmegs, 
one tablespoon of cinnamon, one wineglass 
of rose-water, one of brandy, two of wine. 

Oen. Lee Cake. 

Make by gold cake recipe, patting into the 
batter the grated rind of two oranges. Bake 
in white cake tins, and put, when cold, icing 
between and over it. 

Icing for above. — Take the jnlce of two 
oranges and one lemon, into which put as much 
pulverized sugar as will make very stiif. This 
is excellent for any other cake. 

Ginger Bread. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound and a quarter 
of sngar, one pound of butter, and a spoonful 
of lard, nine eggs, nearly a cup of ginger, and 
either a half-cup of cinnamon or two nutmegs, 
and a desertspoonful of mace, a small teaspoon- 
ful of soda in milk or creaui, a pint of molasses. 

Ginger Cap- Cake. 

One cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, three eggs, three cups flour, one teaspoon 
saleratus, one tablespoon ginger; bake in pans. 
A pound of stoned and chopped raisins is an 
improvement. 



CAKES. 23 

Ginger Cakes, 

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of lard and butter mixed, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, flour enough to make 
it stilf. 

General Directions for Lightening. 

In measuring yeast powder for any recipe in 
this book, be sure to hea]j the teaspoon, or the 
quantity will be insufficient to j^roduce the de- 
sired lightness. The proper manner to lighten 
eggs is to whisk the whites first to a s^^^ froth, 
and then gradually whip the yolks into it. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of milk, one *eup of butter, one and a half 
tablespoonsful of ginger, quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and a half teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of salt, and flour to make 
stiff enough to roll out. 

Gold CaJce, 

Take the yelks of the fourteen eggs left from 
white cake, put them in a pint measure, and fill 
to the top with new milk. Beat well, and when 



24 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

light, add alternately with one pound of sifted 
flour, to one pound of sugar and three-quarters 
of a pound of butter (creamed). Flavor with 
one wineglass of brandy, one of wine, and what- 
ever spice or extract 3'ou desire for flavoring. 
Put into the flour three teaspoonsful of yeast 
powder. Bake one hour and a half if made in 
a large cake. 

Good Rusks and Doughnuts. 

Into a pint of milk, put three cups of sugar 
and a bit of butter the size of an Qg^. Set it on 
the stove until the butter is entirely melted. 
"When cool, add half pint of yeast and four well- 
beaten eggs. Cinnamon or nutmeg to taste, 
and as much flour as will make it as thick 
as muffin dough. Set to rise all night. In the 
mornino: work in flour enouo^h to make like soft 
bread dough, and make half into rusks which 
may sit two or three hours longer to rise. 
When nicely baked, rub over with butter, on 
which sprinkle cinnamon and sugar quite thick. 
The remaining half of dough may be rolled out 
(after the rusks are baked), and cut into shapes, 
and fried in boiling lard. Sprinkle while hot 
with pulverized sugar, and cinnamon if liked. 



CAKES. 25 

Indian Meal Cakes, 

One pound of meal, one pound of Havana 
sugar, half pound of butter, beat butter and 
sugar to a cream, take out one handful of meal 
and add one of wheat flour, four eggs. Rose- 
water, and spice to your taste. Drop them on 
tin sheets or bake them in very small tins. 

Jelly Cake, 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three 
cups of flour, whites of seven eggs, and one cup 
of milk. 

Jelly Cake, 

Ten eggs, three-quarters pound sifted flour, 
one pound white sugar, juice and rind of one 
lemon. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks veiy 
light, then add the sugai-, then the whites, and 
finally stir in the flour gently. Bake in eight 
layers. 

Jumhles, 
One cup butter, two cups sugar, one teacup 
milk, five eggs, one teaspoon soda dissolved in 
boiling water, one teaspoon of nutmeg, sufficient 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut into 
shapes, and sift sugar over them before they go 
into the oven. 

3 



26 \\'ESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

JmrMes. 
One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, two eggs beaten 
very hght, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, one 
tablespoon! Ill of rose-water. 

Lee Ccike, 

Bake sponge cakes in jelly pans. Grate the 
rind of a lemon and squeeze the juice, grate a 
large orange and add to the lemon, then stir in 
one pound of granulated sugar till it becomes 
thick. Spread this between the layers of cake 
while hot. 

Light Wigs, 

Two pounds of flour, four eggs, one-quarter 
of a pound of butter, one-half pound of sugar, 
one pint of milk, a coffee-cup of yeast, and a 
little nutmeg. 

Jjittle Pine Calces, 

One pound of liour, half pound of sugar, and 
the same of butter ; beat to a cream. Mix well 
together, and bake in small tins. 

London Coffee Cake, 

Four eggs, half pound of butter, half pound 
of sugar, half pint of rich milk, one pound of 



CAKES. 27 

flour, into which rub two teaspoonsfnl o'ycast- 
powder. Bake like Sally Lunn. Just before 
you take it from the oven sprinkle pulverized 
sugar over the top, and cinnamon if you like. 

Love Cakes. 

Mix with twx4ve egg yolks a glass of rose- 
water, four ounces of bitter almonds finely pow- 
dered, and sugar enough to make a batter stiff 
enough to bake in boxes. 

Maccaroons, 

One pint ground-nuts or almonds well beaten, 
one pint of sugar, whites of five eggs whipped- 
up, flour enough to stick together. Bake iu 
little pans or on white paper in a moderate oven. 

Marhled Cake, 

One cup of butter, two cups of powdered 
sugar, three cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of 
sweet milk, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, oue 
of cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. When 
the cake is mixed, take out about one teacup of 
batter, and stir into this a large spoonful of 
grated chocolate, wet with a scant tablespoon- 
ful of milk. Fill the mould about one inch deep 
with the yellow batter, then drop on this in two 
or three places a spoonful of the dark mixture; 



28 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

give the brown spots a light stir with the top 
of the spoon, spreading it in broken circles 
npon the lighter surface. Proceed in this order 
until it is used up. When cut the cake will be 
handsomely variegated. The reserved cupful 
of batter may be colored with enough prepared 
cochineal to give it a fine pink tint, and mix as 
you do the brown. 

Marvels, 

Beat two eggs very light, add one pint of 
flour, a little salt, and two dessertspoonsful of 
water. Fry them in hot lard, and sprinkle 
suirar over them when done. 



'O' 



Montrose Cakes, 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of yeast-powder, and four cups of flour. 

Orange Cake. 

Mix well together one pound of sugar and 
three-quarters of a pound of butter; when light 
add eight eggs; mix well, and flavor with ex- 
tract of orange ; then add three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted flour, and stir until the dough 
becomes smooth ; put in one or moi-e pans, and 
bake. 



CAKES. 29 

Parl'ton Rusk, 

Two Clips of sugar, four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, one nutmeg; cream the sugar and 
butter together, then put in the nutmegs, and 
add the eggs, and when w^ell mixed stir in one 
cup of yeast and one cup of warm water, and 
thicken with a pound and a quarter of flour, 
and set it to rise. This should be done about 
noon, and at night work into the rising a pound 
and a quarter more of flour, and put it again to 
lighten. The next morning make out the rusk, 
lighten them again, and bake them when suffi- 
ciently light. This is a most excellent receipt. 

Plain Sugar Cake. 

Three pints of flour, rub into it one teacup of 
butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
four eggs, two teaspoonsful of yeast-powder 
mixed in with the flour. Flavor to taste. 

Queen's Cake, 

One pound of flour, one pound of white sugar, 
half a pound of butter, six eggs, one teacupful 
of cream, one nutmeg, one wineglass of brandy, 
cream the butter and sugar together, then add 
the cream, then the eggs, then the flour, and 
lastly stir in the brandy. 

3* 



30 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Raised Doughnuts, 

One quart of sugar, a scant pint of lard, one 
pint of milk, one pint of water; make into a 
sponge with a cup of yeast, four eggs. Make 
into a sponge at noon, let it rise until bedtime, 
then add flour enough to knead out soft, a little 
salt, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one nutmeg. 
Let it stand until morning, then roll and cut 
out small in order to let them rise again, until 
they will float in hot lard (even if you have to 
wait to 10 A. M. to fry them). The knack is 
to get them light enough. Roll in pulverized 



sugar 



Soft Oinger Bread. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one and 
a half cups of molasses, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one of ginger, and two of cinnamon, 
and stir in flour sufficient to mix it. 



Sponge Cake, 

One pound and a half of eggs, one pound 
and a half of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, the grated rind and juice of two 
lemons. 



CAKES. 31 

Sugar Calces, 

Four eg'gs, one pound sugar, one teacup 
butter, one teacup milk, one teaspoon soda, one 
of cream of tartar, flour enough to roll. 

Sugar Calces {another). 

Six eggs, four and a half cups light-brown 
sugar, one cup milk, one cup butter, half cup 
lard, one teaspoon soda, one of cream of tartar, 
flour enough to roll. 

Superior Chocolate Cake, 

Cream together two cups of sugar, and one 
of butter, then add one cup of milk, half cake 
of Baker's chocolate (grated). Put in five 
well-beaten eggs, and three cups of flour into 
wdiich you have stirred three teaspoonsful of 
yeast powder, adding the eggs and flour alter- 
nately. 

billing for the ahove, — One pound of pulver- 
ized sugar, with water enough to wet it. Beat 
the whites of three eggs a little, but not to a 
stiff* froth; add the sugar, then half a cake of 
chocolate grated. Boil until it thickens, and 
after removing from the fire, and it cools a little, 
stir in a grated cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla. 



82 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Swiss dike. 

Take butter, flour, and sugar, of each tlie 
weight of four eggs. Beat together the yolks 
and sugar, add ten drops of essence of lemon, 
and a large teaspoonful of rose-water, add the 
butter just melted, and slowly sift in the flour, 
beating it until well mixed. Then stir in the 
whites (beaten stiff), and beat hard for a few 
minutes. Butter the tin and bake cake half an 
hour. 

Tea Cakes, 

Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces 
of flour, eight ounces of currants, six ounces 
fine sugar, two yolks and one white of egg, and 
a spoonful of brandy ; roll the paste and cut with 
a wineglass. 

Washington Cake, 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of 
.yeast, one teacup melted butter, one pint new 
milk; make it a thick batter. 

White Cake, 

One pound of flour, the same of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, the whites of 
fourteen eggs ; flavor with peach-water or 



CAKES. 83 

blanched almonds; use tliree teaspoonsful of 
yeast powder. If baked in a large cake, bake 
one hour. 

White Mountain Cake, 

One cup butter and three cups sugar creamed 
well together, half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon 
of cream of tartar in three and a half cups of 
flour, half teaspoon of soda in a little water, 
whites of ten eggs beaten very light ; flavor with 
almond. Put flour in last. Bake in three jelly 
tins. When cool, put icing over each cake, and 
grated cocoanut ovei* the icing. Place the cakes 
together, then ice, and grate cocoanut over the 
top and sides. 

Variety Cake, 

The whites of five eggs, two cups pulverized 
sugar, two cups and a half of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. Take four tablespoonsful of this 
dough, and to it add half cup molasses, half cup 
raisins, a few currants, and half cup flour. Bake 
like jelly cake, dividing the white dough into 
two cakes, putting the fruit cake betiveen with 
layers of tart jelh'. 



34 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

DESSERTS. 

A Plain Pudding {without eggs). 

Three cups flour, one cup molasses, two of 
suet, one of milk, half pound raisins (cut), half 
pound currants, two teaspoons cream of tartar 
rubbed through the flour, half teaspoon soda 
dissolved in the milk. Steam four hours in a 
covered buttered pudding mould. "Wine sauce. 

Ajyj^le Charlotte, 

Butter several thin slices of bread and line the 
sides of a deep earthen dish with them, always 
placing the buttered side next the dish. Then 
put in a layer (about two inches thick) of apples 
sliced up thin, put on the top of this sugar 
sprinkled thickly, and three cloves. Then ano- 
ther layer of bread and buttei', then apples, and 
so on with alternate layers until the dish is full. 
Finally butter bread, lay it on a plate, pour some 
milk over it, lift carefully, and place it on the 
top of the whole, cover with a plate, put a 
weight on it, and let it bake slowly two hours. 
'No sauce. ' 

Aj^j^le Fritters. 

Four pints of finely chopped apples, four eggs, 
a teaspoouful of salt, one pint and a half of 



DESSEETS. 35 

water, sixteen lieaping tablespoons ful of flonr. 
Should the apples be very juicy, it may be found 
necessary to add more flour. This same batter 
makes an excellent pudding baked and eaten 
with cream sauce or molasses. 

Apjyle Meringue, 
Stew 3^our apples well and smoothly, sweeten 
to taste, and add the rind of a lemon. Take the 
whites of five eggs, beat to a stiff froth, put to 
them a teacup of powdered sugar, a little rose- 
water, and juice of the lemon. Put the fruit in 
a flat dish and with a spoon put in the eggs. 
Put into the oven to brown. A spoonful of 
butter stirred in the apples while hot is an 
improvement. 

Ajjj^le Pudding, 
A pint of apples stewed and mashed through 
a colaider; add a quarter of a pound of butter 
and a quarter of a pound of sugar, five eggs 
beaten light, orange-peel and rose-water to your 
taste. Stick some citron on the top of your 
pudding; bake in a paste. 

Ai)2)le Sago, 
Raw apples chopped fine, one quart of boiling 
water, six tablespoonsful or quarter of a pound 
of sago. Swx^eten to taste, and add the rind 
and juice of one lemon. 



36 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Balced Batter Pudding. 

Five eg^^ well beaten, five even tablespoons 
of flour, five of milk to mix the flonr. Add one 
quart of boiling milk. Bake fifteen minutes. 
"Wine sauce. 

Bird-Nest Biiddi/ffj. 

Take ten eggs, nine tablespoon sful of flour, 
one quart of milk. Take the core out of your 
a])i)les, fill them w^ith sugar, butter, and nut- 
meg. Place them in a pan and pour the batter 
over them. Bake until the apples are done. 

Blackherry Paddiwj, 

One-quarter of a pound of butter, the same 
of sugar and flour, a quarter of a pound also of 
grated bread, three pints of blackberries, three 
eggs, and a half teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of cream, or one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. 

Blcmc-Mange, 

Three tablespoon sful of corn-starch mixed 
with a little milk, the yolks of four eggs beaten 
light, four tablespoonsful of sugar — when the 
milk boils pour it over the eggs, put in the 
corn-starch, and flavor with vanilla. This re- 
quires a quart of milk. 



DESSERTS. 37 

Bread Pudding. 
Take two thick slices of bread across the 
loaf, pour boiling water over it, when soft pour 
off the water, mash the bread very fine, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, one pint milk. Beat the sugar and eggs 
together, then stir in the milk; flavor to taste. 
Mix all together and bake it. In winter a 
piece of suet the size of an Q^g^ may be substi- 
tuted for the butter, but 7iot in summer. 

. Centennial Baked Apjde Dumplings. 
Take one pint of flour, a heaped table- 
spoonful of lard, two heaped tea spoonsful 
of yeast powder, a little salt, and sufficient 
milk to make a soft dough. Divide it into 
twelve portions, rolling each into a thin round 
cake. Chop fine sixteen apples, into which 
stir suflicient sugar to sweeten pleasantly, and 
half a grated nutmeg. Put into each cake of 
dough as much choi)ped apple as will fill it, 
and leave a margin for joining and forming 
into a ball. Put these balls into a deep pan or 
dish, and nearly cover them with water. Be- 
tween each dumpling put a small piece of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of sugar to make the 
sauce. Lastly, a small piece of butter on the 
top of each to brown them. Bake half hour. 



38 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Cliocola te Blanc- 3fanje. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, four ounces of 
chocolate, six tablespoonsful of white sugar, 
half box gelatine. Let the gelatine soak half 
hour in the milk ; grate the chocolate and mix 
with a little milk. When the milk and gela- 
tine begin to boil, stir in the chocolate — have 
the eofSfs and susfar well beaten to^cether, then 
pour the boiling mixture on them, stirring all 
the time — return to the fire and let boil hard 
for ten minutes. Put in moulds to cool. 

Cocoanut Pudding, 

Two cocoanuts grated, half pound sugar, 
half pound butter, whites of eleven eggs, cream 
butter, sugar and eggs together, then add the 
cocoanuts. Bake in a paste. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Half pound of butter and half pound of fine 
sugar beaten to a cream, half pound of cocoanut 
grated fine, then add in the whites of six eggs 
beaten light. Rose-water to your taste. This 
quantity will make tw^o puddings, baked in a 
paste. 



DESSERTS. 39 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter beaten to a 
cream, one egg, two teaspoons cream of tartar 
well mixed in two cups flour, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in one cup milk, and stirred in at the 
last when ready to put in the oven; season to 
taste. Bake half hour. Wine sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Thi'ee cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of milk, two tablespoonsful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. Beat well together. 
Bake half an hour, and eat with sauce. 

Crah Aj)2)le Jelly. 

Pick and wash your apples, put them on w^ith 
water enough to cover them well. Simmer 
until the skins peel off easily. Then take them 
from the fire, and allow three and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of white sugar to four pints of 
juice. Put the juice over the fire, and let it 
boil well, taking off* the scum as it rises. After 
the scum ceases to rise, put in the sugar, and 
stir until it has all dissolved. Take from the 
fire and put it in small jelly glasses. 



40 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Cream Pie, 

One cup sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one cup and a half of flour, two-thirds of a cup 
of milk, one egg, two spoonsful of yeast powder. 
Roll. Beat together one ^g^^ one tablespoon- 
ful corn-starch, one tablespoonful flour, and 
two of sugar. Stir it into a half pint of milk, 
and boil to thick custard. Flavor with vanilla. 
Spread and pile for cream pie. 

Cream Puffs, 

Six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, and one tumbler of cold water. Put 
the water into a pan with the butter, and let it 
come to a boil. Throw in the flour all at once, 
and let it boil until the flour is Avell cooked. 
When cold, add the eggs one at a time. Beat 
each one well into the flour, before adding the 
other. Drop tablespoonsful in muffin rings, 
and bake. 

Cream for jilling the ahove, — One tumbler of 
milk, half cup sugar, quarter of a cup of flour, 
one egg» Stir over the fire until it thickens. 
Flavor to taste. When the puffs are cold, 
split them, and fill with the cream. 



DESSERTS. 41 

Flavormg for Custards, Cahes, etc. 

T«ake twenty drops of oil of bitter almonds, 
drop them on a small lump of magnesia. Place 
a funnel in the mouth of a bottle. Get a piece 
of '' filtering paper" fi'om a druggist. Rub 
smoothly together on the middle of this paper, 
the magnesia and oil of almonds. Place in the 
funnel, and over this pour one pint of cold 
water. When filtered it is ready for use. Any 
other essential oil may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

Florindine, 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in four table- 
spoons of rice-flour, let it boil ten minutes. 
Add one teacup of sugar, grated nutmeg or 
vanilla, a gill of cream, five eggs beaten sepa- 
rately until very light. Bake in paste. 

Fritters, 

Put a piece of butter the size of an Qgg^ into 
one pint of hoiling water. Stir into this suffi- 
cient flour to make it very stiff. Beat smooth ; 
as it cools, beat in five eggs (one at a time). 
Drop by spoonsful into hot lard. Serve with 
wine and sugar. 

4* 



42 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Foam Sauce, 

One teacup sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one teaspoonful of flour, beat smoothly; 
then place over fire and stir in three gills of 
boiling water, and flavor with wine or extract. 

French Puff-Paste, 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of 
lard, a half pound of butter, and a half pint of 
water. This quantity Avill make two pies and 
two puddings. 

Frozen Custard, 

Take two quarts of milk, twelve eggs, and 
sixteen tablespoonsful of sugar, and make a 
custard ; flavor when cold with vanilla, and 
then freeze as ice-cream. 

Oelatiyie Jelly, 

To a package of gelatine add one pint of 
cold w^ater, the juice of three lemons and the 
rind of one. Let it stand one hour; then add 
two and a half pints of boiling water, one pint 
of wine, and two pounds of white sugar; strain 
and run into moulds. A tablespoonful of 
brandy improves it, and the flavor may be 
varied by the addition of three or four whole 
cloves or a stick or two of cinnamon. 



DESSERTS. 43 

Oround Corn Pudding, 

Stir three-quarters of a pound of butter into 
two pounds of warm mush, then add the yolks 
of six eggs, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind of one, with sugar, and spice to taste. 
Bake in paste. 

Orits Pudding, 

Take one cup grits, boil it ; when boiled add 
a piece of butter the size of an egg^ one quart 
milk, four eggs, half nutmeg, one wineglass of 
wine. Bake in an earthen dish. Ornament 
with spots of currant jelly. This quantity 
makes two good-sized paddings. 

Hen's Nest 

Get fine eggs, make a hole at one end and 
empty the shells, fill with blanc-mange. When 
stiff* and cold take off the shells. Pare the 
yellow rinds from six lemons, boil them in 
water till tender, then cut in strips to resemble 
straw, and preserve in sugar. Fill a suiall dish 
half full of nice jelly, when it is set put the 
strips of lemon on it in the form of a nest, and 
lay the eggs on it. To make the blanc-mange : 
Break one ounce of isinglass into very small 
pieces, vy^ash it well, and pour on one pint of 



44 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

boiling water. JN'ext morning add one quart of 
milk, boil until the isinglass dissolves; strain 
it, put in two ounces of sweet almonds pound- 
ed ; sweeten it, and put it in the egg-shells. 
Julep straws can be used instead of the lemon 
strips. 

Iced Apples, 

Pare and core twelve large apples, fill with 
sugar, very little butter and cinnamon, bake till 
nearly done. Let them cool, and, if you can 
without breaking, put on another dish, if not, 
pour off the juice, have some icing prepared, 
lay on top and sides, and set into the oven a 
minute or two to brown slightly. Serve with 
cream. 

Irene Spanish Cream. 

Take half box gelatine to a quart of milk, let 
it dissolve in the milk while heating, which is 
best stirred all the time to prevent burning. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with five tablespoons- 
ful of sugar. As soon as the milk boils, pour 
it on the beaten yolks, and return to the fire, 
stirring all the time. As soon as it comes to 
the consistency of custard, have ready the well- 
beaten whites, and when the custard has been 
two or three minutes off the fire, stir the whites 
in thoroughly. Flavor to taste. Pour into 
moulds, which have been dipped in cold water. 



DESSERTS. 45 

Jelly {'without hoiling). 

To one package of " Cox's Sparkling Gela- 
tine," add one pint of cold water, the jnice of 
three lemons, and the rinds pared very thin. 
Let it stand one hour, then add three pints of 
boiling water, half pint wine, and one and a half 
pounds white sugar. When the sugar is dis- 
solved, strain the lemon rinds out, and set it 
away to cool. 

Lemon 3Iermgue, 

Two large lemons (rind and juice), two tea- 
cups sugar, one teacup milk, two tablespoons 
corn-starch dissolved in the milk, yolks of six 
eggs. Beat the yolks light, add the sugar and 
lemon, and milk with corn-starch. Place in a 
paste, and bake it. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth with eight tablespoons of sugar, 
put it on the pie, and replace in the oven until 
it is a light brown. 

Lemon Pudding, 

Three potatoes boiled and well mashed, rind 
of three and juice of tw^o lemons, half a pound 
butter, half a pound sugar, yolks of eleven eggs. 
Ci'eam the sugai', butter, and eggs together, 
then add lemon and potato. 



46 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Lemon P lidding. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoons- 
ful of flour, and milk to fill the plate. Merin- 
gue. 

Meringue Pudding, 

Pour one quart of boiling milk upon one pint 
of grated bread crumbs, one teacup of granu- 
lated sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a lump of 
butter the size of an Q^g^^ and the gi'ated rind 
of one lemon. Stir well, and when cool add the 
well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Pour this mix- 
ture in a buttered dish and bake. When it is 
done, let it stand until cold, then pour over it a 
mei'inofue formed of the whites of six e«:o:s, two 
cups of pulverized sugar, and juice of one lemon. 
Put it in a hot oven until browned over the top. 

Mince Meat Pudding. 
One pint and a half of milk, six eggs, and as 
much bread as will make it suflSciently thick, 
three or four tablespoonsful of mince meat, one 
quarter of a pound of butter, and spice and 
sugar to your taste. Baked without paste. 

Orange Jelly. 
One half package of gelatine, half pint cold 
water, half pint boiling water, two cups of 



DESSERTS. 47 

sugar, juice of five oranges^ and two lemons. 
Strain into moulds. 

Peach Ice Cream, 

Pare a half peck of peaches, and wash them ; 
sweeten them with a pound and a half of sugar, 
and stir in two quarts of milk; then freeze. 

Plomhiere, 
One pint of scalded milk, one pint of cream, 
one teaspoonful isinglass, one handful seedless 
raisins, one ounce of citron, shreds of preserved 
pineapple, ginger, or cherries, four tablespoons- 
ful of wine; sugar to your taste, a little extract 
of almonds, the whites of four eggs beaten stiif. 
Freeze as ice cream. 

Plum Pudding, 

Thirteen eggs, one pound of sugar, a small 
loaf of stale bi'ead (grated), one pound of rai- 
sins, one pound of currants, one pound of suet, 
a quarter of a pound of citron, and a handful 
of fionr. 

Plum Pudding {witliout eggs). 

One cup molasses, one cup suet, one cup milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, as much 
flour as will make a very stiff batter. Boil two 
houi's, and serve with any kind of sauce. 



48 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Potato Padding. 

One pound finely mashed potatoes, quarter 
pound butter, quarter pound sugar, half nut- 
meg, three eggs. Bake in paste without a top 
crust, or in a deep dish without any paste. 

Pudding Sauce, 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a 
pint of boiling water, a little thickening of flour ; 
boil a few minutes and add one egg well beaten, 
flavor with brandy, or wine, or nutmeg. This 
cannot be excelled. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound and a quarter of sifted flour, one 
pound of butter cut in quarters ; take a pound 
of flour, and with a knife cut fine one of the 
quarters of butter into the flour, wet it with 
half a pint of ice-water, then roll it out and lay 
in the other quarter of butter in small pieces, 
and dredge a part of the remaining flour over 
the butter, and roll again, so continuing until 
the butter is all used. 

Pice Coquettes. 

One teacup of rice, boiled in a pint of milk and 
the same of water, until quite tender and very 



DESSERTS. 49 

dry ; while hot add a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, two tablespoonsful of wliite sugar, two 
eggs, juice and grated peel of one lemon, or 
essence of lemon; stir well and dry on the 
stove. Have ready the yolks of two eggs beaten 
on a plate, some fine cracker crumbs on another, 
make up the rice into rolls, dip first in the egg, 
then the cracker, and fry in hot lard to a light 
brown ; sprinkle powdered sugar over them. 

Rice-Floui^ Padding. 

Put to boil one quart of milk, reserving a tea- 
cupful to mix five tablespoonsful of rice flour. 
"When the milk boils, put in the mixed flour, 
and stir it until it thickens a little. When 
slightly cool, stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, 
w^ith six tablespoonsful of white sugar. When 
ready to bake, mix in the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor with the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon, or a glass of 
rose-water. 

nice Pudding (without eggs). 

Wash a small coffee cup of rice and put it 
into three pints of milk over night, in the 
morning add a piece of butter half the size of 



50 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

an egg*, one teacup of sugar, a little salt, nut- 
meg and cinnamon ; bake two and a half hours. 
After it has become hot enough to melt the 
butter, stir it from the bottom (without moving 
the dish); if raisins are to be used stir them in 
now. 

Miz-aU'Lait 

Soak two tablespoons of rice in a quart of 
milk. When soaked, add one saltspoon of salt, 
a small stick of cinnamon, half cup sugar. 
Place in a well-heated oven. Cook slowly two 
hours. 

Sally Liunn; oi\ Cake Pudding, 

Take a piece of butter the size of an ^^'g^ and 
cream with two cups of sugar — then of a cup 
of sweet milk add half — mix well and stir in 
one cup of flour, then the other half of milk 
and a second cup of flour. Of four eggs well 
beaten add one-half, and then the third cup of 
flour — then the remaining half of eggs and the 
fourth cup of flour, in which must be put a tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. The whole well 
beaten and put in the oven to bake — will take 
an hour or so. This makes a nice Sally Lunn 
for supper, or, eaten with cold sauce, makes a 
nice dessert. 



DESSERTS. 51 

Snow Pudding, 

Half box gelatine, half pint of cold water — 
let it soak half hour — then add half pint boiling 
water. When cold, add the whites of three 
eggs beaten a little, two cups of sugar, juice 
of two lemons. Beat three-quarters of an hour. 
Put in moulds to cool ; make a custard of the 
yolks and flavor with vanilla, to eat over it. 

Superior Mince- Meat. 

One pound of chopped meat, one pound and 
a half of chopped suet, two pounds of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, half pound of citron, 
half teaspoonful ground cloves, two orange 
rinds dried and pounded, one tablespoonful 
ground ginger, one of cinnamon and allspice 
(mixed), one teaspoonful of mace, one dozen 
pippin apples chopped fine, three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of wine, one pint of cider, one 
pint of brandy, and a little salt. 

Tapioca and Ajjples. 

Soak two tablespoons of tapioca in one pint 
of water three hours, then sweeten it with one 
cup of sngar. Pare and core twelve pippin 
apples, fill with sugar, pour the tapioca over 
them, and bake. When done, grate nutmeg 
over the top. 



52 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Vanilla Sauce, 

To three pints of milk stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of flour or arrowroot, the yolks of six eggs 
well beaten. Stir nntil it boils. Sweeten to 
taste, and flavor strongly with vanilla. Use 
when cold. 

Whortleherry Pudding, 

Two cups of sngar, five eggs, three cups of 
flour, half cup cream ; make up thick with 
whortleberries. Add a little yeast powder. 
Bake or boil several hours. 



PICKLES. 

Black Walnut PicTdes, 

Take them in the spring when you can run a 
needle easily through them. First wash and 
wipe them, then stick them all over with a large 
needle. Take three large onions and stick them 
full of cloves. Put your walnuts in a stone 
jar, arranging them with one of the onions at 
the bottom, one in the middle, and one at the 
top, then cover the whole with cold vinegar, 
and tie the jar over closely to exclude the air. 
The longer you can keep them before using, the 
better you will find them, as age improves them. 



PICKLES. 53 

Chow 'Chow P icicle. 
Eight beads cabbage, six large onions, cut 
and salt over nio;ht. Press the water from this, 
then add two pounds sugar, one ounce mace, 
two ounces cinnamon, one-quarter ounce cloves, 
two ounces celery seed, one ounce ginger, two 
ounces turmeric, six green and six red peppers 
(having removed the seed); add enough cold 
vinegar to cover the whole. 

Chow- Choiu, 
Two colanders cut tomatoes, six large peppers, 
one colander sliced onions, one colander or thirty- 
six cucumbers (sliced), two ounces of mace, 
two tablespoonsful ground black pepper, half 
pound of mustard seed, two tablespoonsful 
ginger, two tablespoonsful of mustard, one 
ounce of celery seed, one pint of salt, one 
pound of sugar, half gallon of vinegar, two 
ounces of black mustard seed, two tablespoons- 
ful of allspice. Boil hard one hour; stir well 
to prevent burning; when done add two table- 
spoonsful of turmeric. 

Cucumber Catsup, No, 1. 

Pare your cucumbers closely and grate them. 
Season to your taste with salt, pepper, and vine- 
gar. Mix and put in bottles, which without 



54 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

corking you will place in a vessel of cold water 
and set on the stove, letting the water boil for 
two or three hours, until the catsup is done. 

Cucumber Catsup, Wo, 2. 

Three dozen full-grown cucumbers, one dozen 
onions; cut the cucumbers and onions in small 
pieces, sprinkle them with salt, and let them 
stand twenty-four hours. Then drain off the 
water, put to them mace, cloves, and cayenne 
pepper. Cover them with cold vinegar, and 
pour over a little sweet oil to exclude the air. 

Cucumher PicMes. 

Wash and wipe two hundred cucumbers, 
place them in stone jars. Make a pickle that 
will bear an agg, boil it, and pour boiling hot 
over the cucumbers, and some peppers. Cover 
the jars with a double cloth, plate, and weight, 
and let them remain twenty-four hours. Then 
take them out, and wipe them dry. After drying 
the jars return the pickles to them. Boil the 
vinegar with whatever spices you like, mustard 
seed, cloves of garlic, one pound brown sugar, 
and pour boiling hot over the pickles. The 
sugar strengthens the vinegar, without leaving 
a sweet taste on the pickles. 



PICKLES. 55 

Oacumher Pichles (quicHy made). 

Wash and drain the cucumbers, then place 
thein in your jar, with a large onion stuck with 
cloves. Cover them with strong scalding brine, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours ; then 
pour it off, and take sufficient vinegar to fill the 
jar, put it in your preserving kettle with a small 
lump of alum, a teacup of white mustard seed, 
one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, two 
of black pepper, put it over the fire, and let it 
boil a few minutes, then pour it over the cucum- 
bers while scalding hot. Tie them up imme- 
diately. 

Cucumher Sauce. 

Three dozen cucumbers, eight large onions 
chopped fine, and add one cup and a half of salt. 
Place in a colander to drain eight hours, then 
add half cup of black pepper, half pound of 
white mustard seed, and three pints of vinegar. 
Mix well together, bottle for use. The size of 
the cucumbers regulates somewhat the quantity 
of vinegar; medium size preferred. 

East India PicMe. 

Cut fine one white cabbage, four or ^yq onions, 
a root of horseradish. With this take radish 



56 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

pods, beans, cauliflowers, small onions, large 
and small cucumbers, green peppers, and any- 
thing else you like. Soak all in salt and water 
twenty-four hours. When drained, boil your 
vinegar with red peppers, white and brown 
mustard seed, one quarter pound of each. When 
boiling hot, pour it over the pickle. Mix one 
pint bowl of mustard as for the table, and mix 
it into the pickle, also one teaspoon of cayenne 
pepper and one of mace. 

French PicMe, 

One peck green tomatoes, one quarter peck 
onions, slice them and sprinkle thickly with salt, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours. One 
quarter pound mustard seed, one ounce cloves, 
one ounce allspice, one quarter pound mixed 
mustard, two tablespoons of ground black 
pepper, one of red pepper, one ounce celery 
seed, one pound brown sugar, three quarts 
vinegar. Cook slowly for three or four hours. 
Mix the mustard with vinegar, and pour over 
the pickle when cold. 

Mangoes {Sweet PicMe), 

Fill a three-gallon jar with mangoes and cu- 
cumbers and cover them with strong brine. 



PICKLES. 57 

After letting them stand several days pour off 
the brine, and hoi I it and pour it hot over the 
pickles again. Do this every third morning 
nntil yon have scalded them three times. You 
are then to mix equal quantities of vinegar and 
water and scald them three times as before. 
Kee23 them covered with cabbage leaves to 
keep in the steam. To prepare the stuffing for 
the mangoes, take one teacup of black pepper, 
one of allspice, one and a half of ginger, one 
ounce of cloves, and one of mace ; beat them, but 
not fine. Take half of the spices after they are 
beaten, reserving the other half for the cucum- 
bers. Add one small cabbage chopped, one pint 
black mustard seed, one of white, two cups 
scraped horseradish, two pounds and a half of 
brow^n sugar. Mix all well, and fill the man- 
goes, adding to the stuffing half teacup celery 
seed. Take the other half of the spices, with 
two pounds and a half more sugar, and boil 
them with as much vinegar as will cover the 
three gallons of pickles. Pour it on hot. 

Spanish Pickle, 

Three dozen large cucumbers, four large green 
peppers, half peck onions, half peck green toma- 
toes cut in pieces. Sprinkle with one pint of salt, 
and let it stand all night. Drain the next morn- 



58 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

iiig, and add one onnce of mace, one onnce of 
white pepper, one ounce white mustard seed, 
half ounce of cloves, one pound and a half of 
brown sugar, and one piece of horseradish. 
Cover with vinegar and boil half hour. 

Sweet Pickled Damsons, 

Take seven pounds damsons, w^ipe dry, add 
one ounce cinnamon, one ounce cloves, put a 
layer of each in a jar. Then boil one quart of 
sharp vinegar with three pounds of sugar, skim 
it, and pour it boiling hot over the damsons, 
let them stand twenty-four hours. The next 
day pour the juice off, boil it again and pour it 
over the damsons. After they stand another 
twenty-four hours, boil the whole, just scalding 
the fruit. Place in jars when quite cold, and 
cover them w^th the syrup. 

Sweet PicMed Peaches, 

Take eighteen pounds of peaches, rub them 
with a coarse towel (or pare them), halve them. 
Put eight pounds sugar into one quart of vine- 
gar, a handful of cloves, a handful of stick cin- 
namon, one tablespoon mace. 

Place the sugar, vinegar, and spice into the 
preserving kettle. When it boils, throw in 



PICKLES. 59 

the peaches, boil until clear, remove the peaches, 
and boil the syrup until it thickens. 

Sweet PicMed Strawherries. 

One pound and a half of sugar, half pint of 
vinegar, two quarts of picked berries. Boil the 
sugar aud vinegar, skim it well, and while 
boiling pour in the berries, let them simmer 
twenty-five or thirty minutes, then remove the 
berries, being careful not to mash them, and let 
the syrup boil a half hour longer. Put in the 
fruit, just allow it to heat, and pour all into 
your glasses. 

Tomato Catsup, 

Choose those that are round, halve them, take 
out the green core, put on the fire in a bell-metal 
kettle; when bursted, pass through a sieve; let 
stand until the water settles on the top, pour 
off one-third of the water; and to every gallon 
of tomatoes add not quite one-fourth pound of 
whole allspice, a stick of horseradish, a scant 
tablespoon cayenne pepper, a little ivhole mace, 
and six onions, salt to taste, one-half pint strong 
vinegar. Boil until it thickens in the spoon, 
pass through a colander; to each bottle add one 
clove of garlic ; bottle it when cool, cork tight, 
and dip the corked bottle into a cement com- 



60 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

posed of equal parts of rosin and beeswax. 
Shake before using. Keep in a dark place. 

Tomato Soy. 

One and a half pecks of green tomatoes, half 
a peck of onions, one large pint of salt; slice 
the tomatoes and onions, sprinkle the salt over, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours; drain off 
all the water, and boil twenty minutes in weak 
vinegar and water, then drain; boil three pints 
of vinegar and four pounds and a half of brown 
sugar; spices, one tablespoonful of ginger, two 
tablespoonsful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful 
of cloves, two of mace, two of black pepper, and 
four of celery seed, also three of mustard ; mix 
the mustard as for table use, and stir it into the 
vinegar ; put in the tomatoes and onions, and let 
them get hot through. 



PRESERVES. 

Apple Jelly, 

To one peck of sour, juicy apples, take two 
quarts of water, boil the ap])les until they are 
perfectly soft, then strain through flannel. To 
one pint of juice add one pint of sugar; after the 



PRESERVES. 61 

sugar is dissolved strain again, and boil rapidly 
until done. Have ready two large fresh lemons 
cut in slices, over which pour the jelly boi ling- 
hot. Fine, sour, juicy apples, although they 
may be red, will make equally as nice jelly as 
lighter ones. 

Blaclcberry Syrup. 

Extract the juice from the blackberries, and 
to every quart of strained juice allow three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a heaped 
teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, the same of 
cloves, and a large nutmeg, grated ; mix the 
spices with the juice and sugar, and boil in a 
j)orcelain kettle, skimming it well ; when cold, 
stir into each quart of made syrup half a pint of 
fourth-proof brandy, then bottle for use. 

Preserved Burr Cucumbers. 

Take out the insides and let them lie in salt 
and water four days, then soak them in fi-esh 
water two hours, then boil them in fresh water 
with a small lump of alum and a few peach 
leaves, then boil in clear water, then make a 
syrup, allowing five pounds of sugar to four 
pounds of cucumbers, flavoring with lemon and 
ginger to your taste, in which hoil your cucum- 
bers until perfectly done. 



62 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Preserved Pineapple, 

Pare and slice the pineapple, and to every 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, and a pint of water to every pound of 
sugar ; make a syrup, and boil and skim until 
clear, then add your fruit and boil until clear, 
tender, and done. 

Pineapple Marmalade, 

Pare the pineapple and cut out the eyes, and 
grate ; then to every pound of fruit add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and boil until 
clear and done. 

Preserved Cantaloupe, 

Cut the cantaloupe in slices and take off the 
rind ; to eight pounds of fruit allow six pounds 
of sugar, one pound of green ginger, and four 
lemons. 

Preserved Limes. 

Take the limes when green, put them in 
strong salt and water (strong enough to bear 
an egg)^ for six weeks or longer. Then put 
them in fresh cold water for twenty-four hours, 
changing the water ever}^ three hours. Cut 
them in halves, and clean them entirely of 



PRESERVES. 63 

pulp, simmer them in saleratus water, until 
perfectly tender (one teaspoonful to six quarts 
of water), put them again in cold water for 
twenty-four hours, changing often. To each 
pound of fruit two pounds and a half of sugar, 
and two pints of water. Boil the syrup fif- 
teen or twenty minutes before you put in the 
limes. Boil the whole one hour and twenty 
minutes. 

To Can Pineapple. 

Pare the fruit, then tear the meat from the 
stalk with a fork. To six pounds of fruit put 
two pounds of sugar. Cook thirty minutes. 
Then can. 

To Can Quinces, 

Take the x^arings and cores from one peck 
of quinces, and boil them well. Strain the 
liquor through a bag, and to this put five 
pounds sugar, then add the quinces, and boil 
till tender. Then can. 

To Preserve the Heart of Watermelon. 

To one pound of fruit take one-half pound of 
white sugar, and to the fruit of one water- 
melon, put the rinds of six lemons, pared and 
cut into shreds, a few blades of mace. 



64 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Boil the fruit until clear, and boil the syrup 
until it thickens. Ginger is sometimes pre- 
ferred for flavoring instead of lemon. 

To Pt^eserve Pears. 

Pare and (if large) halve them, leaving the 
stems on. Place in a syrup of one pound of 
sugar and one-half pint of water, one pound 
of pears, with some green ginger and sliced 
lemon. Boil until clear, but boil the syrup one 
half hour after the pears are done. 

To Preserve Citron. 

Cut the citron into pieces the size and shape 
you fancy. Pare the green rind off. Place 
the citron in water, with two tablespoons of 
salt, and let it stand all night. 

The next morning put it in clear cold water 
and soak one hour. Place the citron in another 
water in the preserving kettle, with a lump of 
akim half the size of an egg^ and boil it until 
somewhat tender. Remove the fruit, and put 
it once more into clear cold water for one hour. 
To six pounds of fruit put seven and a half 
pounds of sugar, juice of two lemons, and the 
rind pared very thin and cut into shreds, six 
cloves, two small sticks of cinnamon, and ginger 
to your taste. Boil until clear and tender. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 481 634 1 



WESTMINSTER 



COOK-BOOK. 



EVERT RECIPE TRIED AND PROVED. 



We may live without poetry, music, and art 
We may live without conscience, and live without heart. 
We may live without friends, we may live without books. 
But what civilized man can live without cooks? 

He may live without books what is knowledge but grieving? 
He may live without hope what is hope but deceiving ? 
He may live without love what is passion but pining? 
But where is the man that can live without dining? 



ONE HUNDBED AND EIGHTY-THHEE EECIPES. 



PHILADELPHIA: 
HOLLOWBUSH AND CAREY, 

423 MARKET STREET. 

1876. 



Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by 

HOLLOW BUSH AND CAREY, 
in the office of the Librarian, at Washington. All rights reserved. 



TX7& 



AGRIC 
LIBRARi 



WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 



SOUPS. 

Soups. 

"We have deemed it unnecessary to give re- 
cipes for the common e very-day soups. Beef 
and veal form the stock, with such vegetables 
and herbs as suit the tastes of the household. 
For white soups veal is best; for ~brown, use 
beef and the bones and trimmings of other 
meats and poultry. Always use cold water, 
and after it begins to boil, place it in a position 
where it will simmer only, but be sure to keep it 
simmering for four or five hours, with the pot 
closely covered. In winter, sufficient stock 
may be made to last several days, and this 
quantity should boil all day. A portion can 
be used with sliced vegetables as vegetable 
soup, one day; with vermicelli, another day; 
and again, with tomatoes and the addition of a 
little catsup as tomato soup. To color soups, 
use for thickening flour that has been previously 
browned in the oven. 

145 



4 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Clam Soup. 

To a gallon of cut-up clams and their liquor, 
well boiled and strained, put a cup and a half 
of cream, two tablespoonsful of flour creamed 
with a quarter of a pound of butter, and well 
seasoned with salt, pepper, and mace. 

Crab Soup. 

Three dozen crabs boiled and picked, divide 
them equally, boil again one half in a full gal- 
lon of water, with salt and mace, for about an 
hour. Then take off and strain, put the soup 
on again w r ith a teacup of cream, quarter of a 
pound of butter, two and a half tablespoonsful 
of flour creamed with the butter and scalded 
with a little of the hot soup, a tablespoonful of 
mixed mustard, black and red pepper. Have 
in your tureen the remaining dozen and a half 
crabs cleanly picked, and pour the hot soup 
upon them, and serve without delay, for it is 
delicious. 

Oyster Soup. 

One and a half cups of cream to a gallon of 
oysters and liquor, two tablespoonsful of flour, 
creamed with a quarter of a pound of butter 
and well seasoned with pepper, salt, and mace. 



MEATS. 5 

MEATS. 

Asparagus. 

Take two bunches of freshly gathered aspa- 
ragus, ctft in small pieces, and boil until tender 
in water enough to cover it, having first put 
into this water one dessertspoonful of sugar. 
Then add one pint of milk, butter, pepper, and 
salt to taste, and let it just come up to a boil. 

Be sure and not boil it. Serve in deep plates. 

Baked Ham. 

Boil until quite done, then remove the skin. 
Rub together one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two 
of ground cloves, two of grated nutmeg, two 
tablespoons of brown sugar. Make incisions 
with a knife all over the top the depth of the 
fat, into which force the mixture. The balance 
must be rubbed over the top, then cover the 
surface thickly with bread crumbs. Bake 
slowly about one-half hour, basting frequently 
with the essence to keep it from burning. 

Corn Oysters. 

Grate down twelve ears of corn, beat two eggs 
very light, stir well together with pepper and 
salt, add two tablespoons of powdered cracker, 
fry in lard. 



6 WESTMINSTER COOK BOOK. 

Croquettes. 

Having chopped fine your meat, take some 
grated bread crumbs, and season with salt, pep- 
per, mace*, nutmeg, and grated lemon rind. 
Moisten the whole with cream, and make into 
small cones. Have ready some beaten eggs, 
mix with grated bread, dip into it each cro- 
quette and fry slowly in butter. 

Deviled Crabs. 

One dozen crabs, a small loaf of baker's bread, 
three teaspoonsful of mixed mustard, two of 
black .pepper, half a teaspoonftil of cayenne, and 
one of salt, teacup of vinegar, and five ounces 
of butter. Bake in shells. 

Drawn Butter. 

Mix two or three teaspoonsful of flour with a 
little cold water, stir until clear of lumps, thin 
it, and pour on a half pint of boiling water, 
stirring constantly. Boil it two or three 
minutes; then cut up four ounces of butter in 
it, and melt and stir; add hard-boiled eggs 
sliced or minced as desired. 



MEATS. 1 

Mock Oysters. 

A pint of boiled hominy, two eggs, a teacup 
of flour, a tablespoonful of butter (melted), 
pepper and salt to taste ; mix all well together, 
make in little cakes and fry a light brown. 

Mock Terrapin. 

Season and fry brown a calf's liver, then hash 
it fine, dust thickly with flour, two tablespoons- 
ful of mixed mustard, a little cayenne pepper, 
three hard-boiled eggs chopped fine, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, and a teacup of water. 
Let it simmer a few minutes, then serve hot. 

Omelet. 

Three teaspoonsful of fresh milk to each egg, 
a little salt, beat the eggs light, add the milk, 
and cook, stirring all the time. 

Slaw Dressing. 

The yolks of two eggs well beaten, two tea- 
spoonsful of sugar, one of mustard, one of salt, 
one of black pepper, beat all together; add one 
teacup of cream or milk, and half a cup of 
vinegar. Set on the fire and stir until it be- 
comes as thick as boiled custard. Let it come 
to a boil. 



8 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Spiced Beef. 

Four pounds of tender beef minced fine, one 
pound suet chopped fine, mix them together; 
one spoonful of cloves, half the quantity of 
pepper, salt to your taste, a teacup of water. 
Mix all together, then pack in a tin pan the 
size to suit the quantity. Put in the oven and 
bake an hour and a half. This is a delightful 
relish for tea, cut thin. 

Sausage Meat. 

To twenty-nine pounds of chopped meat, add 
eleven ounces of salt, nine heaped tablespoons- 
ful of freshly rubbed sage, five tablespoonsful 
of ground black pepper. If cayenne pepper is 
liked, put to this a half teaspoonful of ground 
cayenne. 

Sauce for Cold Meats. 

Boil two eggs three minutes, mix a small 
teaspoonliil of mixed mustard, a little pepper 
and salt six spoonsful of drawn butter or oil, 
six of vinegar, and one of catsup. 

Turkey or Chicken Patties. 

Mince fine your cold fowl, together with 
some cold boiled ham or tongue; add the yolks 
of hard-boiled eggs grated, a little cayenne 



MEATS. 9 

pepper, some powdered mace, and nutmeg. 
Mix and moisten with cream or butter. Have 
ready some puff paste in pattypans, and fill 
with the mixture. Add oysters, and warm 
with hot shovel. 

Tomato Beef. 

Take five pounds of beef off the end of the 
surloin, place it in a pot with sufficient water 
to keep it from burning, and no more. It 
should be turned often, let it brown, cook one 
hour, then add twelve tomatoes, half an onion 
chopped fine, pepper and salt. After adding 
the tomatoes, stew one hour longer. Serve the 
beef with the tomatoes around it. 

Turkey Sauce. 

Mix two or three teaspoonsful of flour with a 
little cold milk, stir it until clear of lumps, thin 
it and pour on a half-pint of boiling milk, stir- 
ring constantly. Boil it two or three minutes. 
Then cut up four ounces of butter in it, melt, 
and stir and add one pint of oysters and celery 
chopped. 

Veal Patties. 

Three pounds of veal, one pound and a half 
of fresh pork, quarter of a pound of butter, and 
four eggs. Grind the meat fine, add the other 



10 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

ingredients. Season to taste with mustard, 
pepper, and salt Koll into shape. Set them 
in the oven and brown over. To be eaten cold. 



BREADS. 

.Bridgeton Rolls. 

One quart of new milk, one cup and a half 
of lard and butter mixed, two eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, one and a half cups of yeast, 
and a little salt; make up soft, let them rise, and 
make them out two hours before you bake them. 

Corn Muffins. 

One quart of milk, one and a half pints flour 
(even measure), one-half that quantity of meal, 
sift both together, five eggs beaten very light 
(yolks and whites separately), and added to the 
batter, a little salt; butter small tin muffin pans 
(not rings), bake in a quick oven from twenty 
to twenty -five minutes. 

Flannel Cakes. 

Take three eggs, half-pint of milk, melt there- 
in a tablespoonful of lard, then add half-pint 
cold water, and one teacup of yeast, mix all 
together, and make the batter as thick as for 
buckwheat cakes. 



BREADS 11 

Laplanders. 

Beat two eggs very light, then add one pint 
milk, one pint flour, one teaspoon salt, beat well 
together, and bake in small tins. This quantity 
makes one dozen. Have the tins hot. 

Light Bread. 

For two loaves of bread, thicken one quart 
of lukewarm water with flour until it will just 
pour easily, add one tablespoonful of salt, half 
teacup yeast; this should be done about 7 P. M. 
About 10 P. M. work in flour until it is nearly 
as stiff as pie crust, and let it rise again in a 
mass; it will rise high and crack open. When 
it is sufficiently light, mould it into loaves, and 
let it stand about an hour, when it will be ready 
to bake, which you can tell by its cracking open. 
The flour should always be sifted, and the dough 
well kneaded. 

Light Biscuit. 

Two pounds of flour, quarter of a pound of 
lard, one pint of milk, and a cup of yeast, and 
a little salt. To be made in the evening if in- 
tended for breakfast, or in the morning for tea. 

Maryland Biscuit. 

Take two quarts of flour, one-quarter pound 
lard, and a little salt. Mix with as little water 



12 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

as possible, and then knead it until soft. Break 
up into pieces, and roll into shape, prick with a 
fork, and bake them in a quick oven. To be 
good, they must be worked a great deal. 

Muffin Bread. 

Make up over night just as you would light 
bread only softer, adding two eggs, a mixed 
spoonful of butter and lard, one teaspoon of 
sugar at the time you make it up. Mould out 
only in one loaf as you would rolls, and let it 
rise again before baking. Bake in a pie plate 
(it is stiff enough not to run over). Split in 
half, butter, lay lightly together again, and send 
to the table hot. Serve in quarters. 

Muffins. 

Take three eggs, half pint of milk and water 
in equal quantities, melt therein a tablespoon- 
ful of lard, then add half pint cold water, one 
teacup of yeast, mix all together and stir in 
flour to make it a thick fritter batter. 

Quick Light Cake for Breakfast. 

Mix dry and well rubbed together two tea- 
spoonsful of cream of tartar, with one quart of 
flour, then dissolve three-quarters of a tea- 
spoonful of super-carbonate of soda in a suffi- 



BREADS. 13 

cient quantity of sweet milk (about a pint), 
mix the whole together, and bake immediately. 
Split and butter. Serve while hot. 

Sally Lunn. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one quart of 
flour, half a teacup of yeast. Put this to rise, 
and when light beat in one cup of melted butter. 
Then put it into your pan or pans, and let it 
rise again, and bake when light. 

Sally Lunn (with yeast). 

Warm one quart of milk with quarter pound 
of butter, two heaping tablespoons of sugar, 
half a nutmeg. Beat up three eggs and put 
in, with a little salt, and flour enough to make 
it stiffer than pound cake. Beat it well. Add 
a teacup of yeast, and let it rise. Butter a 
fluted cake mould and pour it in Bake in a 
quick oven one hour. 

If you wish tea at 7 o'clock, set it to rise at 
11 A.M. 

Sally Lunn (without yeast). 

One quart of flour, # piece of butter the size 
of an egg, three tablespoons of sugar, two eggs, 
two teacups milk, two teaspoons of cream of 
tartar, one teaspoon of saleratus, a little salt. 



14 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

To mix it scatter the cream of tartar, the salt, 
and the sugar into the flour. Add the eggs 
without having beaten them, the butter melted, 
and one cup of the milk. Dissolve thesaleratus 
in the remaining cup, and then stir all together 
steadily a few minutes. This makes two loaves. 
Add spice and twice the measure of sugar, arid 
you have a good plain cake for the cake basket. 

Supper Fritters. 

One and a half cups of sugar beaten with 
three eggs, one cup of sour cream, and one and 
a half cups of buttermilk, in which stir a tea- 
spoonful of soda. Add flour enough to make a 
thin muffin-batter, and fry. 

Tea Cake. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, half cup of but- 
ter, half cup of yeast. Make this into a rising, 
and when light knead in sufficient flour to make 
as stiff as roll dough. Make this into three flat 
cakes, and let it rise again. 

Wafers or Wine Crackers. 

Three pints of flour, one heaping tablespoon- 
ful of lard, one tablespoonful of salt. Rub the 
flour, lard, and salt well together. Make up 



BREADS. 15 

quite stiff. Knead them till soft. Break into 
small pieces and roll them out as thin as wafers. 
Prick with a fork before placing in the oven. 

Wheat Muffins. 

Early in the morning take off a piece of light- 
dough, say what has been made from one quart 
of flour. Thin this to the consistency of batter 
by the addition of sweet milk. After beating 
it till smooth, let it rise all together for one 
hour; then on a delicately greased griddle drop 
the batter from a spoon, and, as soon as lightly 
browned on one side, turn on the other. Serve 
up hot, and tear open instead of cutting with a 
knife. 

Yeast. 

One cup of hops, two quarts of water boiled 
down to one quart, five potatoes boiled and 
mashed, one cup of flour. Mix the potatoes 
and flour together, strain the hop-water over 
them. Put on the stove and let it boil a few 
minutes, then set it aside to cool. When cool 
add one cup of brown sugar and one cup of 
yeast. It will keep sweet several weeks. 



16 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

CAKES. 

A Cheap Cake. 

Four eggs, three cups of flour, two cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of butter, two 
and a h#lf teaspoonsful of yeast powder. Flavor 
with almonds, and bake in a quick oven. 

Albany Cakes. 

One and a half pounds of flour, one pound of 
sugar, half pound of butter, one quarter of an 
ounce of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of lard, 
one teacup of cream, one teaspoonful of sale- 
ratus, and one wineglass of rose-water. 

Butter Cake. 

To one pint of warm milk add half a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, and four eggs well 
beaten, the rind of one lemon, a nutmeg, a tea- 
spoonful of salt, one cup of yeast, and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. If put to rise in 
the evening, it will be ready to bake in the 
morning. Put it in your baking pans half inch 
thick, and set it to rise a second time ; when 
light, put small pieces of butter over the top, 
and sift cinnamon and sugar, then it is ready 
for the oven. 



CAKES. 17 

Caromel. 

Three pounds sugar, one and a half cakes 
chocolate, half a pound butter, two cups milk, 
one small bottle extract of vanilla. Boil until 
it thickens, stirring constantly. Pour on but- 
tered plates and bar off. 

Centennial Cake. 

One pound of sugar, half pound of butter, 
cream the butter and sugar together, six eggs. 
Break in an egg, and add a handful of flour, 
and so on until you get the eggs in ; then add 
a glass of ice-water and more flour until it is 
as stiff as pound cake; flavor to taste, and put 
into the flour a tablespoonful of yeast powder. 

Children's Cakes. 

One and a half pounds of flour, three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar, six ounces of butter, one 
nutmeg and a half, one and a half small tea- 
cupsful of milk, two teaspoonsful of yeast 
powder, one and a half tablespoonsful of 
brandy, and the same of rose-water. 

Chocolate Cake. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup of butter, 
two cups flour, yolks and whites of six eggs 

2* 



18 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

beaten separately, one teaspoon cream of tartar, 
half teaspoon soda dissolved in half cup sweet 
milk. Bake in layers. Half pound Baker's 
chocolate grated fine in half pint milk, flavor 
and sweeten to taste. Boil this for a few min- 
utes until it thickens. While cooling add one 
egg well beaten. Spread the chocolate upon 
the cake as soon as taken from the oven (as 
you would jelly cake). 

Chocolate Cake. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, half 
a pound of butter, six eggs, one cup of milk, 
three teaspoonsful of yeast powder. 

Icing three-quarters of a pound of chocolate, 
grated and mixed with four tablespoonsful of 
milk, put in the oven to melt, and when melted 
mix with icing the same as white mountain 
cake. This quantity makes two large cakes. 

Coffee Cake. 

One pint of sponge, half a pint of milk, one- 
quarter pound of butter, one-quarter pound of 
lard, add the milk, stir in the sponge, one-half 
pound of brown sugar, two eggs. Scald the 
raisins or currants, wipe them dry, -flavor to 
your taste with spice ; thicken until the spoon 
stands in the batter. Make up the sponge the 



CAKES. 19 



night before, add the ingredients the next 
morning, and it will be fit to bake for tea. 

Cream Cake. 

One tablespoonful of butter, one cup of sugar, 
two-thirds of a cup of sweet milk, one egg, two 
teaspoonsful of cream tartar, one of soda, one 
and two-third cups of flour, flavor with vanilla 
or lemon, and bake in layers as for jelly cake. 



Cup Cake. 

Two cups of white sugar stirred into one cup 
of butter until quite light, three cups of sifted 
flour, four eggs beaten light (whites and yolks 
separately) ; beat the yolks into the sugar and 
butter, stir the flour in gently, one cup of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, 
lastly the whites; beat all w r ell, bake in a mode- 
rate oven in small tins, sift sugar over them. 

Cup Cake. 

Three cups of sugar, one of butter, four of 
flour, one of cream, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
of pearlash ; let these ingredients be well beaten 
together, and add spice to your taste. 



20 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Cup Cake. 

One cup of cream, two cups of butter, three 
cups of sugar, and four cups of flour, five eggs, 
and spice to your taste ; bake thin. 

Caromel. 

Three pounds of sugar, one cake of chocolate, 
half pint of cream, quarter of a pound of butter. 
Season with vanilla. Boil slowly about thirty 
minutes, as it burns easily. 

Delicate CaJce. 

One and a half cups sugar, half cup butter, 
two cups flour, four eggs, half cup milk, two 
teaspoons baking powder in the flour. 

Doughnuts. 

Four pounds and a half of flour, two and a 
half pounds of 'sugar, six eggs beaten light, 
three half pints of milk (warmed), one pound 
of lard, and two tablespoonsful of good yeast. 
Mix all into a soft dough, let them stand two 
hours before they are rolled, then melt two 
pounds of lard in a kettle, and throw in a few 
at a time. They quickly bake if the lard is 
scalding hot. 



CAKES. 21 

English Cake. 

Take five eggs, then the weight of five eggs 
in sugar, the weight of four in flour, the weight 
of three in butter, one nutmeg, and a glass of 
wine. 

Everton Taffy. 

One pound of sugar, two tablespoonsful of 
vinegar ; soak twelve hours, then add a small 
lump of butter and boil; flavor with vanilla. 

Federal Cakes. 

One pound of flour, six ounces of butter, the 
same of sugar, well rubbed together with half a 
teaspoonful of spice, one egg well beaten, one- 
quarter glass of rose-water, and six drops of 
essence of lemon. Bake in small cakes. 

French, Custard Cake. 

Four eggs, one and a half pints of milk, 
lump of butter the size of a walnut, three table- 
spoons corn-starch, one lemon, sugar, and flavor- 
ing to taste. 

Fruit Cake. 

One pound of butter, one pound of sugar, 
one pound of flour, two and a half pounds of 
raisins, two and a half pounds of currants, one 



22 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

pound of citron, twelve eggs, four nutmegs, 
one tablespoon of cinnamon, one wineglass 
of rose-water, one of brandy, two of wine. 

Gen. Lee Cake. 

Make by gold cake recipe, putting into the 
batter the grated rind of two oranges. Bake 
in white cake tins, and put, when cold, icing 
between and over it. 

Icing for above. Take the juice of two 
oranges and one lemon, into which put as much 
pulverized sugar as will make very stiff. This 
is excellent for any other cake. 

Ginger Bread. 

Two pounds of flour, one pound and a quarter 
of sngar, one pound of butter, and a spoonful 
of lard, nine eggs, nearly a cup of ginger, and 
either a half-cup of cinnamon or two nutmegs, 
and a desertspoonful of mace, a small teaspoon- 
ful of soda in milk or cream, a pint of molasses. 

Ginger Cup- Cake. 

One cup butter, one cup molasses, one cup 
sugar, three eggs, three cups flour, one teaspoon 
saleratus, one tablespoon ginger; bake in pans. 
A pound of stoned and chopped raisins is an 
improvement. 



CAKES. 23 

Ginger Cakes. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of lard and butter mixed, 
one tablespoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful of 
cinnamon, and one of salt, flour enough to make 
it stitf. 

General Directions for Lightening. 

In measuring yeast powder for any recipe in 
this book, be sure to heap the teaspoon, or the 
quantity will be insufficient to produce the de- 
sired lightness. The proper manner to lighten 
eggs is to whisk the whites first to a stiff froth, 
and then gradually whip the yolks into it. 

Ginger Snaps. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of milk, one cup of butter, one and a half 
tablespoon sful of ginger, quarter of a teaspoon- 
ful of soda, and a half teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of salt, and flour to make 
stiff enough to roll out. 

Gold Cake. 

Take the yelks of the fourteen eggs left from 
white cake, put them in a pint measure, and fill 
to the top with new milk. Beat well, and when 



24 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

light, add alternately with one pound of sifted 
flour, to one pound of sugar and three-quarters 
of a pound of butter (creamed). Flavor with 
one wineglass of brandy, one of wine, and what- 
ever spice or extract 3^011 desire for flavoring. 
Put into the flour three teaspoon sful of yeast 
powder. Bake one hour and a half if made in 
a large cake. 

Good Rusks and Doughnuts. 

Into a pint of milk, put three cups of sugar 
and a bit of butter the size of an egg. Set it on 
the stove until the butter is entirely melted. 
When cool, add half pint of yeast and four well- 
beaten eggs. Cinnamon or nutmeg to taste, 
and as much flour as will make it as thick 
as muffin dough. Set to rise all night. In the 
morning work in flour enough to make like soft 
bread dough, and make half into rusks which 
may sit two or three hours longer to rise. 
When nicely baked, rub over with butter, on 
which sprinkle cinnamon and sugar quite thick. 
The remaining half of dough may be rolled out 
(after the rusks are baked), and cut into shapes, 
and fried in boiling lard. Sprinkle while hot 
with pulverized sugar, and cinnamon if liked. 



CAKES. 25 

Indian Meal Calces. 

One pound of meal, one pound of Havana 
sugar, half pound of butter, beat butter and 
sugar to a cream, take out one handful of meal 
and add one of wheat flour, four eggs. Rose- 
water, and spice to your taste. Drop them on 
tin sheets or bake them in very small tins. 

Jelly Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three 
cups of flour, whites of seven eggs, and one cup 
of milk. 

Jelly Cake. 

Ten eggs, three-quarters pound sifted flour, 
one pound white sugar, juice and rind of one 
lemon. Separate the eggs, beat the yolks very 
light, then add the sugar, then the whites, and 
finally stir in the flour gently. Bake in eight 
layers. 

Jumbles. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one teacup 
milk, five eggs, one teaspoon soda dissolved in 
boiling water, one teaspoon of nutmeg, sufficient 
flour to make a soft dough. Roll out, cut into 
shapes, and sift sugar over them before they go 
into the oven. 

3 



26 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Jumbles. 

One pound of flour, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, the same of sugar, two eggs beaten 
very light, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, one 
tablespoon ful of rose-water. 

Lee Cake. 

Bake sponge cakes in jelly pans. Grate the 
rind of a lemon and squeeze the juice, grate a 
large orange and add to the lemon, then stir in 
one pound of granulated sugar till it becomes 
thick. Spread this between the layers of cake 
while hot. 

Light Wigs. 

Two pounds of flour, four eggs, one-quarter 
of a pound of butter, one-half pound of sugar, 
one pint of milk, a coffee-cup of yeast, and a 
little nutmeg. 

Little Pine Calces, 
j 

One pound of flour, half pound of sugar, and 
the same of butter 5 beat to a cream. Mix well 
together, and bake in small tins. 

London Coffee Cake. 

Four eggs, half pound of butter, half pound 
of sugar, half pint of rich milk, one pound of 



CAKES. 27 

flour, into which rub two teaspoonsful o" yeast- 
powder. Bake like Sally Lunu. Just before 
you take it from the oven sprinkle pulverized 
sugar over the top, and cinnamon if you like. 

Love Cakes. 

Mix with twelve egg yolks a glass of rose- 
water, four ounces of bitter almonds finely pow- 
dered, and sugar enough to make a batter stiff 
enough to bake in boxes. 

Maccaroons. 

One pint ground-nuts or almonds well beaten, 
one pint of sugar, whites of five eggs whipped- 
up, flour enough to stick together. Bake in 
little pans or on white paper in a moderate oven. 

Marbled Cake. 

One cup of butter, two cups of powdered 
sugar, three cups of flour, four eggs, one cup of 
sweet milk, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one 
of cream of tartar, sifted with the flour. When 
the cake is mixed, take out about one teacup of 
batter, and stir into this a large spoonful of 
grated chocolate, wet with a scant tablespoon- 
ful of milk. Fill the mould about one inch deep 
with the yellow batter, then drop on this in two 
or three places a spoonful of the dark mixture ; 



28 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

give the brown spots a light stir with the top 
of the spoon, spreading it in broken circles 
upon the lighter surface. Proceed in this order 
until it is used up. When cut the cake will be 
handsomely variegated. The reserved cupful 
of batter may be colored witli enough prepared 
cochineal to give it a fine pink tint, and mix as 
you do the brown. 

Marvels. 

Beat two eggs very light, add one pint of 
flour, a little salt, and two dessertspoonsful of 
water. Fry them in hot lard, and sprinkle 
sugar over them when done. 

Montr ose Cakes. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one cup of sweet 
milk, one tablespoonful of butter, one teaspoon- 
ful of yeast-powder, and four cups of flour. 

Orange Caike. 

Mix well together one pound of sugar and 
three-quarters of a pound of butter; when light 
add eight eggs ; mix well, and flavor with ex- 
tract of orange ; then add three-quarters of a 
pound of sifted flour, and stir until the dough 
becomes smooth; put in one or more pans, and 
bake. 



CAKES. 29 

Parkton Rusk. 

Two cups of sugar, four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, one nutmeg; cream the sugar and 
butter together, then put in the nutmegs, and 
add the eggs, and when well mixed stir in one 
cup of yeast and one cup of warm water, and 
thicken with a pound and a quarter of flour, 
and set it to rise. This should be done about 
noon, and at night work into the rising a pound 
and a quarter more of flour, and put it again to 
lighten. The next morning make out the rusk, 
lighten them again, and bake them when suffi- 
ciently light. This is a most excellent receipt. 

Plain Sugar Cake. 

Three pints of flour, rub into it one teacup of 
butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
four eggs, two teaspoonsful of yeast-powder 
mixed in with the flour. Flavor to taste. 

Queen's Cake. 

One pound of flour, one pound of white sugar, 
half a pound of butter, six eggs, one teacupful 
of cream, one nutmeg, one wineglass of brandy, 
cream the butter and sugar together, then add 
the cream, then the eggs, then the flour, and 
lastly stir in the brandy. 

3* 



30 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Raised Doughnuts. 

One quart of sugar, a scant pint of lard, one 
pint of milk, one pint of water; make into a 
sponge with a cup of yeast, four eggs. Make 
into a sponge at noon, let it rise until bedtime, 
then add flour enough to knead out soft, a little 
salt, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one nutmeg. 
Let it stand until morning, then roll and cut 
out small in order to let them rise again, until 
they will float in hot lard (even if you have to 
wait to 10 A. M. to fry them). The knack is 
to get them light enough. Eoll in pulverized 



sugar. 



Soft Ginger Bread. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one and 
a half cups of molasses, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one of ginger, and two of cinnamon, 
and stir in flour sufficient to mix it. 

Sponge Cake. 

One pound and a half of eggs, one pound 
and a half of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour, the grated rind and juice of two 
lemons. 



CAKES. 31 

Sugar Cakes. 

Four eggs, one pound sugar, one teacup 
butter, one teacup milk, one teaspoon soda, one 
of cream of tartar, flour enough to roll. 

Sugar Cakes (another). 

Six eggs, four and a half cups light-brown 
sugar, one cup milk, one cup butter, half cup 
lard, one teaspoon soda, one of cream of tartar, 
flour enough to roll. 

Superior Chocolate Cake. 

Cream together two cups of sugar, and one 
of butter, then add one cup of milk, half cake 
of Baker's chocolate (grated). Put in five 
well-beaten eggs, and three cups of flour into 
which you have stirred three teaspoonsful of 
yeast powder, adding the eggs and flour alter- 
nately. 

Filling for the above. One pound of pulver- 
ized sugar, with water enough to wet it. Beat 
the whites of three eggs a little, but not to a 
stiff froth; add the sugar, then half a cake of 
chocolate grated. Boil until it thickens, and 
after removing from the fire, and it cools a little, 
stir in a grated cocoanut. Flavor with vanilla. 



32 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Swiss Cake. 

Take butter, flour, and sugar, of each the 
weight of four eggs. Beat together the yolks 
and sugar, add ten drops of essence of lemon, 
and a large teaspoonful of rose-water, add the 
butter just melted, and slowly sift in the flour, 
beating it until well mixed. Then stir in the 
whites (beaten stiff), and beat hard for a few 
minutes. Butter the tin and bake cake half an 

hour. 

x 

Tea Calces. 

Rub four ounces of butter into eight ounces 
of flour, eight ounces of currants, six ounces 
fine sugar, two yolks and one white of egg, and 
a spoonful of brandy ; roll the paste and cut with 
a wineglass. 

Washington Cake. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup of 
yeast, one teacup melted butter, one pint new 
milk; make it a thick batter. 

White Cake. 

One pound of flour, the same of sugar, three- 
quarters of a pound of butter, the whites of 
fourteen eggs ; flavor with peach-water or 



CAKES. 33 

blanched almonds; use three teaspoonsful of 
yeast powder. If baked in a large cake, bake 
one hour. 

White Mountain Cake. 

One cup butter and three cups sugar creamed 
well together, half cup sweet milk, one teaspoon 
of cream of tartar in three and a half cups of 
flour, half teaspoon of soda in a little water, 
whites of ten eggs beaten very light ; flavor with 
almond. Put flour in last. Bake in three jelly 
tins. When cool, put icing over each cake, and 
grated cocoanut over the icing. Place the cakes 
together, then ice, and grate cocoanut over the 
top and sides. 

Variety Cake. 

The whites of five eggs, tw r o cups pulverized 
sugar, two cups and a half of flour, three-quar- 
ters of a cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
three teaspoonsful of baking powder. Flavor 
with vanilla. Take four tablespoonsful of this 
dough, and to it add half cup molasses, half cup 
raisins, a few currants, and half cup flour. Bake 
like jelly cake, dividing the white dough into 
two cakes, putting the fruit cake between with 
layers of tart jelly. 



34 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

DESSERTS. 

A Plain Pudding (without eggs). 

Three cups flour, one cup molasses, two of 
suet, one of milk, half pound raisins (cut), half 
pound currants, two teaspoons cream of tartar 
rubbed through the flour, half teaspoon soda 
dissolved in the milk. Steam four hours in a 
covered buttered pudding mould. "Wine sauce. 

Apple Charlotte. 

Butter several thin slices of bread and line the 
sides of a deep earthen dish with them, always 
placing the buttered side next the dish. Then 
put in a layer (about two inches thick) of apples 
sliced up thin, put on the top of this sugar 
sprinkled thickly, and three cloves. Then ano- 
ther layer of bread and butter, then apples, and 
so on with alternate la} 7 ers until the dish is full. 
Finally butter bread, lay it on a plate, pour some 
milk over it, lift carefully, and place it on the 
top of the whole, cover with a plate, put a 
weight on it, and let it bake slowly two hours. 
No sauce. 

Apple Fritters. 

Four pints of finely chopped apples, four eggs, 
a tcaspoouful of salt, one pint and a half of 



DESSERTS. 35 

water, sixteen heaping tablespoons ful of flour. 
Should the apples be very juicy, it may be found 
necessary to add more flour. This same batter 
makes an excellent pudding baked and eaten 
with cream sauce or molasses. 

Apple Meringue. 

Stew your apples well and smoothly, sweeten 
to taste, and add the rind of a lemon. Take the 
whites of five eggs, beat to a stiff froth, put to 
them a teacup of powdered sugar, a little rose- 
water, and juice of the lemon. Put the fruit in 
a flat dish and with a spoon put in the eggs. 
Put into the oven to brown. A spoonful of 
butter stirred in the apples while hot is an 
improvement. 

Apple Pudding. 

A pint of apples stewed and mashed through 
a colander ; add a quarter of a pound of butter 
and a quarter of a pound of sugar, five eggs 
beaten light, orange-peel and rose-water to your 
taste. Stick some citron on the top of your 
pudding; bake in a paste. 

Apple Sago. 

Raw apples chopped fine, one quart of boiling 
water, six tablespoon sful or quarter of a pound 
of sago. Sweeten to taste, and add the rind 
and juice of one lemon. 



36 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Baked Batter Pudding. 

Five eggs well beaten, five even tablespoons 
of flour, five of milk to mix the flour. Add one 
quart of boiling milk. Bake fifteen minutes. 
"Wine sauce. 

Bird-Nest Pudding. 

Take ten eggs, nine tablespoonsful of flour, 
one quart of milk. Take the core out of your 
apples, fill them with sugar, butter, and nut- 
meg. Place them in a pan and pour the batter 
over them. Bake until the apples are done. 

Blackberry Pudding. 

One-quarter of a pound of butter, the same 
of sugar and flour, a quarter of a pound also of 
grated bread, three pints of blackberries, three 
eggs, and a half teaspoonful of saleratus dis- 
solved in a teaspoonful of cream, or one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. 

Blanc-Mange. 

Three tablespoonsful of corn-starch mixed 
with a little milk, the yolks of four eggs beaten 
light, four tablespoonsful of sugar when the 
milk boils pour it over the eggs, put in the 
corn-starch, and flavor with vanilla. This re- 
quires a quart of milk. 



DESSERTS. 37 

Bread Pudding. 

Take two thick slices of bread across the 
loaf, pour boiling water over it, when soft pour 
off the water, mash the bread very fine, a piece 
of butter the size of an egg, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, one pint milk. Beat the sugar and eggs 
together, then stir in the milk; flavor to taste. 
Mix all together and bake it. In winter a 
piece of suet the size of an egg may be substi- 
tuted for the butter, but not in summer. 

Centennial Baked Apple Dumplings. 
Take one pint of flour, a heaped table- 
spoonful of lard, two heaped teaspoonsful 
of yeast powder, a little salt, and sufficient 
milk to make a soft dough. Divide it into 
twelve portions, rolling each into a thin round 
cake. Chop fine sixteen apples, into which 
stir sufficient sugar to sweeten pleasantly, and 
half a grated nutmeg. Put into each cake of 
dough as much chopped apple as will fill it, 
and leave a margin for joining and forming 
into a ball. Put these balls into a deep pan or 
dish, and nearly cover them with water. Be- 
tween each dumpling put a small piece of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of sugar to make the 
sauce. Lastly, a small piece of butter on the 
top of each to brown them. Bake half hour. 

4 



38 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Chocolate Blanc- Many e. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, four ounces of 
chocolate, six tablespoonsful of white sugar, 
half box gelatine. Let the gelatine soak half 
hour in the milk; grate the chocolate and mix 
with a little milk. When the milk and gela- 
tine begin to boil, stir in the chocolate have 
the eggs and sugar well beaten together, then 
pour the boiling mixture on them, stirring all 
the time return to the fire and let boil hard 
for ten minutes. Put in moulds to cool. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Two cocoanuts grated, half pound sugar, 
half pound butter, whites of eleven eggs, cream 
butter, sugar and eggs together, then add the 
cocoanuts. Bake in a paste. 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

Half pound of butter and half pound of fine 
sugar beaten to a cream, half pound of cocoanut 
grated fine, then add in the whites of six eggs 
beaten light. Eose-water to your taste. This 
quantity will make tw y o puddings, baked in a 
paste. 



DESSERTS. 39 

Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, half cup butter beaten to a 
cream, one egg, two teaspoons cream of tartar 
well mixed in two cups flour, one teaspoon soda 
dissolved in one cup milk, and stirred in at the 
last when ready to put in the oven; season to 
taste. Bake half hour. Wine sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of milk, two tablespoonsful of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. Beat well together. 
Bake half an hour, and cat with sauce. 

Cral) Apple Jelly. 

Pick and wash your apples, put them on with 
water enough to cover them well. Simmer 
until the skins peel off easily. Then take them 
from the fire, and allf>w three and three-quar- 
ters of a pound of white sugar to four pints of 
juice. Put the juice over the fire, and let it 
boil well, taking off the scum as it rises. After 
the scum ceases to rise, put in the sugar, and 
stir until it has all dissolved. Take from the 
fire and put it in small jelly glasses. 



40 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Cream Pie. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, 
one cup and a half of flour, two-thirds of a cup 
of milk, one egg, two spoonsful of yeast powder. 
Roll. Beat together one egg, one tablespoon- 
ful corn-starch, one tablespoonful flour, and 
two of sugar. Stir it into a half pint of milk, 
and boil to thick custard. Flavor with vanilla. 
Spread and pile for cream pie. 

Cream Puffs. 

Six ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, 
four eggs, and one tumbler of cold water. Put 
the water into a pan with the butter, and let it 
come to a boil. Throw in the flour all at once, 
and let it boil until the flour is well cooked. 
"When cold, add the eggs one at a time. Beat 
each one well into the flour, before adding the 
other. Drop tablespoonsful in muffin rings, 
and bake. 

Cream for filling the above. One tumbler of 
milk, half cup sugar, quarter of a cup of flour, 
one egg. Stir over the fire until it thickens. 
Flavor to taste. When the puffs are cold, 
split them, and fill with the cream. 



DESSERTS. 41 

Flavoring for Custards, Calces, etc. 

Take twenty drops of oil of bitter almonds, 
drop them on a small lump of magnesia. Place 
a funnel in the mouth of a bottle. Get a piece 
of " filtering paper" from a druggist. Rub 
smoothly together on the middle of this paper, 
the magnesia and oil of almonds. Place in the 
funnel, and over this pour one pint of cold 
water. When filtered it is ready for use. Any 
other essential oil may be prepared in the same 
manner. 

Florindine. 

Boil one quart of milk, stir in four table- 
spoons of rice-flour, let it boil ten minutes. 
Add one teacup of sugar, grated nutmeg or 
vanilla, a gill of cream, five eggs beaten sepa- 
rately until very light. Bake in paste. 

Fritters. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into 
one pint of boiling water. Stir into this suffi- 
cient flour to make it very stiff. Beat smooth ; 
as it cools, beat in five eggs (one at a time). 
Drop by spoonsful into hot lard. Serve with 
wine and sugar. 

4* 



42 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Foam Sauce. 

One teacup sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one teaspoonful of flour, beat smoothly; 
then place over fire and stir in three gills of 
boiling water, and flavor with wine or extract. 

French Puff-Paste. 

One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of 
lard, a half pound of butter, and a half pint of 
water. This quantity will make two pies and 
two puddings. 

Frozen Custard. 

Take two quarts of milk, twelve eggs, and 
sixteen tablespoonsful of sugar, and make a 
custard ; flavor when cold with vanilla, and 
then freeze as ice-cream. 

Gelatine Jelly. 

To a package of gelatine add one pint of 
cold water, the juice of three lemons and the 
rind of one. Let it stand one hour ; then add 
twd^and a half pints of boiling water, one pint 
of wine, and two pounds of white sugar ; strain 
and run into moulds. A tablespoonful of 
brandy improves it, and the flavor may be 
varied by the addition of three or four whole 
cloves or a stick or two of cinnamon. 



DESSERTS. 43 

Ground Corn Pudding. 

Stir three-quarters of a pound of butter into 
two pounds of warm mush, then add the yolks 
of six eggs, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind of one, with sugar, and spice to taste. 
Bake in paste. 

Grits Pudding. 

Take one cup grits, boil it ; when boiled add 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one quart 
milk, four eggs, half nutmeg, one wineglass of 
wine. Bake in an earthen dish. Ornament 
with spots of currant jelly. This quantity 
makes two good-sized puddings. 

Hen's Nest. 

Get fine eggs, make d hole at one end and 
empty the shells, fill with blanc-mange. "When 
stiff and cold take off the shells. Pare the 
yellow rinds from six lemons, boil them in 
water till tender, then cut in strips to resemble 
straw, and preserve in sugar. Fill a small dish 
half full of nice jelly, when it is set put the 
strips of lemon on it in the form of a nest, and 
lay the eggs on it. To make the blanc-mange : 
Break one ounce of isinglass into very small 
pieces, wash it well, and pour on one pint of 



44 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

boiling water. Next morning add one quart of 
milk, boil until the isinglass dissolves; strain 
it, put in two ounces of sweet almonds pound- 
ed; sweeten it, and put it in the egg-shells. 
Julep straws can be used instead of the lemon 
strips. 

Iced Apples. 

Pare and core twelve large apples, fill with 
sugar, very little butter and cinnamon, bake till 
nearly done. Let them cool, and, if you can 
without breaking, put on another dish, if not, 
pour off the juice, have some icing prepared, 
lay on top and sides, and set into the oven a 
minute or two to brown slightly. Serve with 
cream. 

Irene Spanish Cream. 

Take half box gelatine to a quart of milk, let 
it dissolve in the milk while heating, which is 
best stirred all the time to prevent burning. 
Beat the yolks of four eggs with five tablespoons- 
ful of sugar. As soon as the milk boils, pour 
it on the beaten yolks, and return to the fire, 
stirring all the time. As soon as it comes to 

o 

the consistency of custard, have ready the well- 
beaten whites, and when the custard has been 
two or three minutes off the fire, stir the whites 
in thoroughly. Flavor to taste. Pour into 
moulds, which have been dipped in cold water. 



DESSERTS. 45 

Jelly (without boiling). 

To one package of " Cox's Sparkling Gela- 
tine," add one pint of cold water, the juice of 
three lemons, and the rinds pared very thin. 
Let it stand one hour, then add throe pints of 
boiling water, half pint wine, and one and a half 
pounds white sugar. When the sugar is dis- 
solved, strain the lemon rinds out, and set it 
away to cool. 

Lemon Meringue. 

Two large lemons (rind and juice), two tea- 
cups sugar, one teacup milk, two tablespoons 
corn-starch dissolved in the milk, yolks of six 
eggs. Beat the yolks light, add the sugar and 
lemon, and milk with corn-starch. Place in a 
paste, and bake it. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth with eight tablespoons of sugar, 
put it on the pie, and replace in the oven until 
it is a light brown. 

Lemon Pudding. 

Three potatoes boiled and well mashed, rind 
of three and juice of two lemons, half a pound 
butter, half a pound sugar, yolks of eleven eggs. 
Cream the sugar, butter, and eggs together, 
then add lernon and potato. 



46 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Lemon Pudding. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, three tablespoons- 
ful of flour, and milk to fill the plate. Merin- 
gue. 

Meringue Pudding. 

Pour one quart of boiling milk upon one pint 
of grated bread crumbs, one teacup of granu- 
lated sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a lump of 
butter the size of an egg, and the grated rind 
of one lemon. Stir well, and when cool add the 
well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Pour this mix- 
ture in a buttered dish and bake. When it is 
done, let it stand until cold, then pour over it a 
meringue formed of the whites of six eggs, two 
cups of pulverized sugar, and juice of one lemon. 
Put it in a hot oven until browned over the top. 

Mince Meat Pudding. 

One pint and a half of milk, six eggs, and as 
much bread as will make it sufficiently thick, 
three or four tablespoonsful of mince meat, one 
quarter of a pound of butter, and spice and 
sugar to your taste. Baked without paste. 

Orange Jelly. 

One half package of gelatine, half pint cold 
water, half pint boiling water, two cups of 



DESSERTS. 47 

sugar, juice of five oranges, and two lemons. 
Strain into moulds. 

Peach Ice Cream. 

Pare a half peck of peaches, and wash them ; 
sweeten them with a pound and a half of sugar, 
and stir in two quarts of milk; then freeze. 

Plombiere. 

One pint of scalded milk, one pint of cream, 
one teaspoonful isinglass, one handful seedless 
raisins, one ounce of citron, shreds of preserved 
pineapple, ginger, or cherries, four tablespoons- 
ful of wine; sugar to your taste, a little extract 
of almonds, the whites of four eggs beaten stiff. 
Freeze as ice cream. 

Plum Pudding. 

Thirteen eggs, one pound of sugar, a small 
loaf of stale bread (grated), one pound of rai- 
sins, one pound of currants, one pound of suet, 
a quarter of a pound of citron, and a handful 
of flour. 

Plum Pudding (without eggs). 

One cup molasses, one cup suet, one cup milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, as much 
flour as will make a very stiff batter. Boil two 
hours, and serve with any kind of sauce. * 



48 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Potato Pudding. 

One pound finely mashed potatoes, quarter 
pound butter, quarter pound sugar, half nut- 
meg, three eggs. Bake in paste without a top 
crust, or in a deep dish without any paste. 

Pudding Sauce. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a 
pint of boiling water, a little thickening of flour ; 
boil a few minutes and add one egg well beaten, 
flavor with brandy, or wine, or nutmeg. This 
cannot be excelled. 

Puff Paste. 

One pound and a quarter of sifted flour, one 
pound of butter cut in quarters ; take a pound 
of flour, and with a knife cut fine one of the 
quarters of butter into the flour, wet it with 
half a pint of ice-water, then roll it out and lay 
in the other quarter of butter in small pieces, 
and dredge a part of the remaining flour over 
the butter, and roll again, so continuing until 
the butter is all used. 

Rice Coquettes. 

One teacup of rice, boiled in a pint of milk and 
the same of water, until quite tender and very 



DESSERTS. 49 

dry ; while hot add a piece of butter the size of 
an egg, two tablespoonsful of white sugar, two 
eggs, juice and grated peel of one lemon, or 
essence of lemon; stir well and dry on the 
stove. Have ready the yolks of two eggs beaten 
on a plate, some fine cracker crumbs on another, 
make up the rice into rolls, dip first in the egg, 
then the cracker, and fry in hot lard to a light 
brown ; sprinkle powdered sugar over them. 

Rice-Flour Pudding. 

Put to boil one quart of milk, reserving a tea- 
cupful to mix five tablespoonsful of rice flour. 
When the milk boils, put in the mixed flour, 
and stir it until it thickens a little. When 
slightly cool, stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter, and the well-beaten yolks of four eggs, 
with six tablespoonsful of white sugar. When 
ready to bake, mix in the whites of the eggs 
whipped to a stiff froth. Flavor with the 
juice and grated rind of a lemon, or a glass of 
rose-water. 

Rice Pudding (without eggs)* 

Wash a small coffee cup of rice and put it 
into three pints of milk over night, in the 
morning add a piece of butter half the size of 

5 



50 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

an egg, one teacup of sugar, a little salt, nut- 
meg and cinnamon ; bake two and a half hours. 
After it has become hot enough to melt the 
butter, stir it from the bottom (without moving 
the dish) ; if raisins are to be used stir them in 
now. 

Hiz-au-Lait. 

Soak two tablespoons of rice in a quart of 
milk. When soaked, add one salt spoon of salt, 
a small stick of cinnamon, half cup sugar. 
Place in a well-heated oven. Cook slowly two 
hours. 

Sally Lunn ; or, Cake Pudding. 

Take a piece of butter the size of an egg, and 
cream with two cups of sugar then of a cup 
of sweet milk add half mix well and stir in 
one cup of flour, then the other half of milk 
and a second cup of flour. Of four eggs well 
beaten add one-half, and then the third cup of 
flour then the remaining half of eggs and the 
fourth cup of flour, in which must be put a tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder. The whole well 
beaten and put in the oven to bake will take 
an hour or so. This makes a nice Sally Lunn 
for supper, or, eaten with cold sauce, makes a 
nice dessert. 



DESSERTS. 51 

Snow Pudding. 

Half box gelatine, half pint of cold water 
let it soak half hour then add half pint boiling 
water. When cold, add the whites of three 
eggs beaten a little, two cups of sugar, juice 
of two lemons. Beat three-quarters of an hour. 
Put in moulds to cool ; make a custard of the 
yolks and flavor with vanilla, to eat over it. 

Superior Mince- Meat. 

One pound of chopped meat, one pound and 
a half of chopped suet, two pounds of raisins, 
two pounds of currants, half pound of citron, 
half teaspoonful ground cloves, two orange 
rinds dried and pounded, one tablespoonful 
ground ginger, one of cinnamon and allspice 
(mixed), one teaspoonful of mace, one dozen 
pippin apples chopped fine, three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of wine, one pint of cider, one 
pint of brandy, and a little salt. 

Tapioca and Apples. 

Soak two tablespoons of tapioca in one pint 
of water three hours, then sweeten it with one 
cup of sugar. Pare and core twelve pippin 
apples, fill with sugar, pour the tapioca over 
them, and bake. When done, grate nutmeg 
over the top. 



52 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Vanilla Sauce. 

To three pints of milk stir in one tablespoon- 
ful of flour or arrowroot, the yolks of six eggs 
well beaten. Stir until it boils. Sweeten to 
taste, and flavor strongly with vanilla. Use 
when cold. 

Whortleberry Pudding. 

Two cups of sugar, five eggs, three cups of 
flour, half cup cream ; make up thick with 
whortleberries. Add a 'little yeast powder. 
Bake or boil several hours. 



PICKLES. 

Black Walnut Pickles. 

Take them in the spring when you can run a 
needle easily through them. First wash and 
wipe them, then stick them all over with a large 
needle. Take three large onions and stick them 
full of cloves. Put your walnuts in a stone 
jar, arranging them with one of the onions at 
the bottom, one in the middle, and one at the 
top, then cover the whole with cold vinegar, 
and tie the jar over closely to exclude the air. 
The longer you can keep them before using, the 
better you will find them, as age improves them. 



PICKLES. 53 

Chow- Chow Pickle. 

Eight heads cabbage, six large onions, cut 
and salt over night. Press the water from this, 
then add two pounds sugar, one ounce mace, 
two ounces cinnamon, one-quarter ounce cloves, 
two ounces celery seed, one ounce ginger, two 
ounces turmeric, six green and six red peppers 
(having removed the seed) ; add enough cold 
vinegar to cover the whole. 

Chow- Choiv. 

Two colanders cut tomatoes, six large peppers, 
one colander sliced onions, one colander or thirty- 
six cucumbers (sliced), two ounces of mace, 
two tablespoonsful ground black pepper, half 
pound of mustard seed, two tablespoonsful 
ginger, two tablespoonsful of mustard, one 
ounce of celery seed, one pint of salt, one 
pound of sugar, half gallon of vinegar, two 
ounces of black mustard seed, two tablespoons- 
fill of allspice. Boil hard one hour; stir well 
to prevent burning; when done add two table- 
spoonsful of turmeric. 

Cucumber Catsup, No. 1. 

Pare your cucumbers closely and grate them. 
Season to your taste with salt, pepper, and vine- 
gar. Mix and put in bottles, which without 

5* 



54 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

corking you will place iji a vessel of cold water 
and set on the stove, letting the \vater boil for 
two or three hours, until the catsup is done. 

Cucumber Catsup, No. 2. 

Three dozen full-grown cucumbers, one dozen 
onions; cut the cucumbers and onions in small 
pieces, sprinkle them with salt, and let them 
stand twenty-four hours. Then drain off the 
water, put to them mace, cloves, and cayenne 
pepper. Cover them with cold vinegar, and 
pour over a little sweet oil to exclude the air. 

Cucumber Pickles. 

Wash and wipe two hundred cucumbers, 
place them in stone jars. Make a pickle that 
will bear an egg, boil it, and pour boiling hot 
over the cucumbers, and some peppers. Cover 
the jars with a double cloth, plate, and weight, 
and let them remain twenty-four hours. Then 
take them out, and wipe them dry. After drying 
the jars return the pickles to them. Boil the 
vinegar with whatever spices you like, mustard 
seed, cloves of garlic, one pound brown sugar, 
and pour boiling hot over the pickles. The 
sugar strengthens the vinegar, without leaving 
a sweet taste on the pickles. 



PICKLES. 55 

Cucumber Pickles (quickly made). 

Wash and drain the cucumbers, then place 
them in your jar, with a large onion stuck with 
cloves. Cover them with strong scalding brine, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours ; then 
pour it off, and take sufficient vinegar to fill the 
jar, put it in your preserving kettle with a small 
lump of alum, a teacup of white mustard seed, 
one tablespoonful of cloves, one of allspice, two 
of black pepper, put it over the fire, and let it 
boil a few minutes, then pour it over the cucum- 
bers while scalding hot. Tie them up imme- 
diately. 

Cucumber Sauce. 

Three dozen cucumbers, eight large onions 
chopped fine, and add one cup and a half of salt. 
Place in a colander to drain eight hours, then 
add half cup of black pepper, half pound of 
white mustard seed, and three pints of vinegar. 
Mix well together, bottle for use. The size of 
the cucumbers regulates somewhat the quantity 
of vinegar; medium size preferred. 

East India Pickle. 

Cut fine one white cabbage, four or five onions, 
a root of horseradish. With this take radish 



56 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

pods, beans, cauliflowers, small onions, large 
and small cucumbers, green peppers, and any- 
thing else you like. Soak all in salt and water 
twenty-four hours. When drained, boil your 
vinegar with red peppers, white and brown 
mustard seed, one quarter pound of each. When 
boiling hot, pour it over the pickle. Mix one 
pint bowl of mustard as for the table, and mix 
it into the pickle, also one teaspoon of cayenne 
pepper and one of mace. 

French Pickle, 

One peck green tomatoes, one quarter peck 
onions, slice them and sprinkle thickly with salt, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours. One 
quarter pound mustard seed, one ounce cloves, 
one ounce allspice, one quarter pound mixed 
mustard, two tablespoons of ground black 
pepper, one of red pepper, one ounce celery 
seed, one pound brown sugar, three quarts 
vinegar. Cook slowly for three or four hours. 
Mix the mustard with vinegar, and pour over 
the pickle when cold. 

Mangoes (Sweet Pickle). 

Fill a three-gallon jar with mangoes and cu- 
cumbers and cover them with strong brine. 



PICKLES. 57 

After letting them stand several days pour off 
the brine, and boil it and pour it hot over the 
pickles again. Do this every third morning 
until you have scalded them three times. You 
are then to mix equal quantities of vinegar and 
water and scald them three times as before. 
Keep them covered with cabbage leaves to 
keep in the steam. To prepare the stuffing for 
the mangoes, take one teacup of black pepper, 
one of allspice, one and a half of ginger, one 
ounce of cloves, and one-of mace ; beat them, but 
not fine. Take half of the spices after they are 
beaten, reserving the other half for the cucum- 
bers. Add one small cabbage chopped, one pint 
black mustard seed, one of white, two cups 
scraped horseradish, two pounds and a half of 
bixrvvn sugar. Mix all well, and fill the man- 
goes, adding to the stuffing half teacup celery 
seed. Take the other half of the spices, with 
two pounds and a half more sugar, and boil 
them with as much vinegar as will cover the 
three gallons of pickles. Pour it on hot. 

Spanish Pickle. 

Three dozen large cucumbers, four large green 
peppers, half peck onions, half peck green toma- 
toes cut in pieces. Sprinkle with one pint of salt, 
and let it stand all night. Drain the next morn- 



58 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

ing, and add one ounce of mace, one ounce of 
white pepper, one ounce white mustard seed, 
half ounce of cloves, one pound and a half of 
brown sugar, and one piece of horseradish. 
Cover with vinegar and boil half hour. 

Sweet Pickled Damsons. 

Take seven pounds damsons, wipe dry, add 
one ounce cinnamon, one ounce cloves, put a 
layer of each in a jar. . Then boil one quart of 
sharp vinegar with three pounds of sugar, skim 
it, and pour it boiling hot over the damsons, 
let them stand twenty-four hours. The next 
day pour the juice off, boil it again and pour it 
over the damsons. After they stand another 
twenty-four hours, boil the whole, just scalding 
the fruit. Place in jars when quite cold, and 
cover them with the syrup. 

Sweet Pickled Peaches. 

Take eighteen pounds of peaches, rub them 
with a coarse towel (or pare them), halve them. 
Put eight pounds sugar into one quart of vine- 
gar, a handful of cloves, a handful of stick cin- 
namon, one tablespoon mace. 

Place the sugar, vinegar, and spice into the 
preserving kettle. When it boils, throw in 



PICKLES. 59 

the peaches, boil until clear, remove the peaches, 
and boil the syrup until it thickens. 

Sweet PicTded Strawberries. 

One pound and a half of sugar, half pint of 
vinegar, two quarts of picked berries. Boil the 
sugar and vinegar, skim it well, and while 
boiling pour in the berries, let them simmer 
twenty-five or thirty minutes, then remove the 
berries, being careful not to mash them, and let 
the syrup boil a half hour longer. Put in the 
fruit, just allow it to heat, and pour all into 
your glasses. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Choose those that are round, halve them, take 
out the green core, put on the fire in a bell-metal 
kettle; when bursted, pass through a sieve; let 
stand until the water settles on the top, pour 
off one-third of the water; and to every gallon 
of tomatoes add not quite one-fourth pound of 
whole allspice, a stick of horseradish, a scant 
tablespoon cayenne pepper, a little whole mace, 
and six onions, salt to taste, one-half pint strong 
vinegar. Boil until it thickens in the spoon, 
pass through a colander ; to each bottle add one 
clove of garlic ; bottle it when cool, cork tight, 
and dip the corked bottle into a cement com- 



60 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

posed of equal parts of rosin and beeswax. 
Shake before using. Keep in a dark place. 

Tomato Soy. 

One and a half pecks of green tomatoes, half 
a peck of onions, one large pint of salt; slice 
the tomatoes and onions, sprinkle the salt over, 
and let them stand twenty-four hours; drain off 
all the water, and boil twenty minutes in weak 
vinegar and water, then drain; boil three pints 
of vinegar and four pounds and a half of brown 
sugar; spices, one tablespoonful of ginger, two 
tablespoonsful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful 
of cloves, two of mace, two of black pepper, and 
four of celery seed, also three of mustard; mix 
the mustard as for table use, and *tir it into the 
vinegar ; put in the tomatoes and onions, and let 
them get hot through. 



PRESERVES. 

Apple Jelly. 

To one peck of sour, juicy apples, take two 
quarts of water, boil the apples until they are 
perfectly soft, then strain through flannel. To 
one pint of juice add one pint of sugar ; after the 



PRESERVES. 61 

sugar is dissolved strain again, and boil rapidly 
until done. Have ready two large fresh lemons 
cut in slices, over which pour the jelly boiling 
hot. Fine, sour, juicy apples, although they 
may be red, will make equally as nice jelly as 
lighter ones. 

Blackberry Syrup. 

Extract the juice from the blackberries, and 
to every quart of strained juice allow three- 
quarters of a pound of loaf sugar, a heaped 
teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, the same of 
cloves, and a large nutmeg, grated ; mix the 
spices with the juice and sugar, and boil in a 
porcelain kettle, skimming it well ; when cold, 
stir into each quart of made syrup half a pint of 
fourth-proof brandy, then bottle for use. 

Preserved Burr Cucumbers. 

Take out the insides and let them lie in salt 
and water four days, then soak them in fresh 
water two hours, then boil them in fresh water 
With a small lump of alum and a few peach 
leaves, then boil in clear water, then make a 
syrup, allowing five pounds of sugar to four 
pounds of cucumbers, flavoring with lemon and 
ginger to your taste, in which boil your cucum- 
bers until perfectly done. 



62 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Preserved Pineapple. 

Pare and slice the pineapple, and to every 
pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of 
sugar, and a pint of water to every pound of 
sugar ; make a syrup, and boil and skim until 
clear, then add your fruit and boil until clear, 
tender, and done. 

Pineapple Marmalade. 

Pare the pineapple and cut out the eyes, and 
grate ; then to every pound of fruit add three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, and boil until 
clear and done. 

Preserved Cantaloupe. 

Cut the cantaloupe in slices and take off the 
rind ; to eight pounds of fruit allow six pounds 
of sugar, one pound of green ginger, and four 
lemons. 

Preserved Limes. 

Take the limes when green, put them in 
strong salt and water (strong enough to bear 
an egg), for six weeks or longer. Then put 
them in fresh cold water for twenty-four hours, 
changing the water every three hours. Cut 
them in halves, and clean them entirely of 



PRESERVES. 63 

pulp, simmer them in saleratus water, until 
perfectly tender (one teaspoonful to six quarts 
of water), put them again in cold water for 
twenty-four hours, changing often. To each 
pound of fruit two pounds and a half of sugar, 
and two pints of water. Boil the syrup fif- 
teen or twenty minutes before you put in the 
limes. Boil the whole one hour and twenty 
minutes. 

To Can Pineapple. 

Pare the fruit, then tear the meat from the 
stalk with a fork. To six pounds of fruit put 
two pounds of sugar. Cook thirty minutes. 
Then can. 

To Can Quinces. 

Take the parings and cores from one peck 
of quinces, and boil them well. Strain the 
liquor through a bag, and to this put five 
pounds sugar, then add the quinces, and boil 
till tender. Then can. 

To Preserve the Heart of Watermelon. 

To one pound of fruit take one-half pound of 
white sugar, and to the fruit of one water- 
melon, put the rinds of six lemons, pared and 
cut into shreds, a few blades of mace. 



64 WESTMINSTER COOK-BOOK. 

Boil the fruit until clear, and boil the syrup 
until it thickens. Ginger is sometimes pre- 
ferred for flavoring instead of lemon. 

To Reserve Pears. 

Pare and (if large) halve them, leaving the 
stems on. Place in a syrup of one pound of 
sugar and one-half pint of water, one pound 
of pears, with some green ginger and sliced 
lemon. Boil until clear, but boil the syrup one 
half hour after the pears are done. 

To Reserve Citron. 

Cut the citron into pieces the size and shape 
you fancy. Pare the green rind off. Place 
the citron in water, with two tablespoons of 
salt, and let it stand all night. 

The next morning put it in clear cold water 
and soak one hour. Place the citron in another 
water in the preserving kettle, with a lump of 
alum half the size of an egg, and boil it until 
somewhat tender. Remove the fruit, and put 
it once more into clear cold water for one hour. 
To six pounds of fruit put seven and a half 
pounds of sugar, juice of two lemons, and the 
rind pared very thin and 'cut into shreds, six 
cloves, two small sticks of cinnamon, and ginger 
to your taste. Boil until clear and tender. 



7 DAY USE 



>HT Tf> 



FR r "^ 



