Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



MANUAL OF DIET. 



A MANUAL 



OF 



DIET IN HEALTH AND DISEASE, 



BY 



THOMAS KING CHAMBERS, 

M.D. OxoN., F.B.C.P. LOND., 

HONORARY PHYSICIAN TO H.R.H. THE PRINCE OP WALES, C0N8ULTINQ PHYSICIAN 

TO ST. MARY'S AND THE LOCK HOSPITALS, LECTURER ON MEDICINE 

AT ST. MARY'S SCHOOL, 0ORRE8P0NDINO FELLOW OF 

THE ACADEMY OF MEDICINE, NEW YORK, 

Errc. 



SECOND EDITION, 







LONDON: ' 

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE. 

1876. 



^All rights reierved."] 



PEEFACE 



The aims of this handbook are purely practical, and 
therefore it has not been thought right to swell its size 
by a repetition of the chemical, botanical, and industrial 
learning which has collected round the nucleus of every 
article interesting as an eatable. More room has been 
thus made for a full discussion of matters connecting food 
and drink with the daily current of social life, which the 
position of the author as a practising physician has led 
him to believe highly important to the present and future 
of our race. 

In the second edition, here presented to the reader, 

further space has been gained by omitting many of the 

* 

details in the chapter on Alcohol; so that a complete 
revise of the material might be made without adding to 
the bulk of the volume. 

Thos. K. Chambers. 

24 MoTTNT Street, Grosvenor Square : 
January 1, 1876. 



CONTENTS. 



PART I. 

GENERAL DIETETICS. 

CHAPTSB PAOB 

I. Theories of Dietetics 3 

n. The Choice of Food .17 

in. The Preparation of Food ... 87 

IV. Digestion 107 

V. Nutrition 131 



PART II. 

SPECIAL DIETETICS OF HEALTH. 



I. Infancy and Motherhood . 

U. Childhood and Youth 

m. Cotnmercial lAfe 

IV. Literary and li'ofessiontd Life 

V. Noxious Trades . 

VI. Athletic Training . 

VII. Hints for Healthy Travellers 



139 
149 
157 
IGl 
171 
176 
193 



viii CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER PAGE 

VIII. Effects of aimate 201 

IX. Starvation, Poverty, and Fasting 211 

X. The Decline of Life 227 

XI. Alcohol 231 



PART III. 

DIETETICS IN SICKNESS. 

I. Acxde Fevers ........ 251 

II. Other Inflammatory States . . . . . 267 

HI. Weak Digestion 277 

IV. Gout and Rheumatism ....... 289 

V. Gravel, Stone, Albuminuria, and Diabetes 301 

VI. Deficient Evacuation 311 

yjL. Nerve Disorders 317 

VIII. Scrofula, Rickets, and Consumption 333 

IX. Disease of Heart and Blood-vessels 341 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX 356 



PAKT L 



GENERAL DIETETICS. 



S 



CHAPTER I. 

THEORIES OP DIETETICS. 

What is the natural food of man ? 

Edcli animal in a state of nature finds substances suited 
for nutrition ready to liand, and within the grasp of the 
organs his body is provided with. And these substances 
seem, generally, the most proper to sustain the health. So 
that it has been not irrationally argued, that it would be a 
nsei^ act of reasoning to infer from the structure of the 
human organs what kind of food they are most fitted to 
appropriate, for this would probably prove most conducive to 
each man's physical well-being. 

When in pursuit of this argument we come to compare 
man's form with that of other mammalia, his prehensile 
organs — ^his teeth, his jaws, and his feet and his nails — do not 
seem to fit him for grappling with any of the difficulties which 
the adoption of special kinds of food prepared by nature 
entails. He can conveniently neither tear his prey, nor crack 
many nuts, nor grub roots, nor graze. His digestive viscera, 
in middle life, are too bulky and heavy to qualify him for the 
rapid movements of the camivora ; and they are not lengthy 
enough to extract nourishment from raw vegetables. To 
judge by form and structure alone, the natural food of an 
adult must be pronounced to be nothvng. 

On the other hand, if we read the laws of man's nature by 
the light of the general consent of the individuals of his race, 

b2 



4 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

which is tho wisest course,* we shall arrive at the opposite 
C!oncluHion, that his food is everything which any other warm 
blooded animal can use as nourishment. If we try to construct 
a universal dietary from tho records which each new traveller 
brings homo of what ho has beheld habitually eaten, we shall 
find very few forms of organic matter, capable of supporting 
mammalian life, which are not appropriated by man to his 
own use. By selection and preparation he contrives to 
remove such parts and such qualities of the substances pre- 
Honted by nature as are noxious to him, and to improve such 
UH suit his purpose ; so that as finally swallowed, they are 
more wholesome to him than to the beasts who eat nothing 
«?lsc. These lists of possible eatables are most interesting to 
tho student of human nature ; they lead to inferences as to the 
action of laws, religions, customs, and associations, in making 
that abominable to one race which is most highly appreciated 
by another, and they are an important part of the argumenta 
of those who trace political events and national character to 
pliysical causes ; but they are not suited to the present volume, 
which will concern itself with the action on individual health 
of food generally accessible in the British market. Reference 
may be occasionally made to a more extended materia alimen- 
iariaf but it can contribute little to the main arguments pro- 
posed. 

Tho power by virtue of which man becomes so truly om- 
nivorous is Habit. He can in time accustom himself to live 
on anything containing nourishment, provided he be not 
limited in quantity, nor restricted in facilities for preparation, 
Tho inferior animals could do the same if they only knew how 
to set about it ; for when we bring our reason to bear on their 
lives, wo can effect what at first sight seem most radical 
changes of their nature, in respect to food ; and we can even 
induce and perpetuate hereditary forms of body suited to the 
altered circumstances wo have brought about. Spallanzani 

* Consensus omnium nationum lex naturae putanda est. — Cicero, de 
Legthust i. 8. 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 5 

found that pigeons may be fed on flesh, and eagles on bread, 
by using them to it ; the domestic dog grows 'strong on 
biscnit, and often suffers in health on being brought back to 
his native food ; our poultry is more robust, more fertile, and 
apparently happier, for being supplied with meat, fat, or soup, 
and our cats have accommodated themselves to a mixed diet, 
assimilatiDg their form to that of herbivora, by a considerable 
increase in the length of their bowels over those owned by 
their cousins of the mountains. The speechless creatures not 
having the wits to gain unaided these new powers, compulsory 
education is necessary ; even for such a simple process as 
learning to eat turnips, the lamb requires a shepherd to stand 
over him and forcibly make him chew. Man's chief bodily 
strength depends on his willingness to submit to the pain of 
acquiring habits, and on his forcing his domestic stock to 
Bubmit to it, for the sake of a future advantage. 

The solvent actions of the juices of the intestinal canal on 
food seem to be the same in quality in all classes of animals, 
and to admit of modification in the proportions of their in- 
gredients according to the diet adopted. Under vegetable 
food the saliva becomes more copious, under meat there is more 
gastric juice. The bile of a grazing ox is more watery than 
that of a man ; the bile of a growing boy (who can digest any 
amount of meat) was found by Gorup-Besanez * to contain 
nearly double the amount of solid contained in that of an old 
woman (whose age would dispose her to be very little car- 
nivorous). 

This shows the importance of what may be called the 
preparatory or mechanical parts of digestion. The digestive 
solvents can evidently grow equal to all emergencies of the 
chemical acts required of them, and the differences in the 
results of those acts must mainly hang on the mechanical 
condition of the substances presented to them. Fortunate, 
indeed, is it that such is the case, for the mechanical condition 

' Untermchungen uber d. Gcdle, Erlangent 1846. The relative propor- 
tions of solid matter were 17*19 per cent, as against 9*13 per cent. 



6 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

of the food is certainly more folly in our power, and more 
easily inflacnced by onr reason tlian the chemical solvency of 
the secretions. We can choose, according to its hardness, 
softness, and other external qualities, the sort of victual we 
put in our mouths ; wo can prepare it with art, can regulate 
its bulk and the period of taking it ; while the muscles which 
chew it and swallow it are almost entirely under our direction. 
But it is only very indirectly that we can influence the saliva, 
the gastric and pancreatic juices, and the bile. 

Assuming, then, that man can easily accommodate himself 
to a varied and mixed diet — that he has, as a matter of fact, 
accommodated himself to it — and that, therefore, it will in 
future, as in the past, best suit his requirements — the next 
point of interest is the proportion which its several ingredients 
should hear to one another. 

Physiologists have pointed out that in the preparation 
made for the infant at its entrance into life, and which is a 
striking instance to the faithfol mind of a controlling design 
in creation, we have a typical instance of what the All -wise 
considered a suitable dietary. This may be called the 
' Naturalist's Theory.' Looking to its qualitative composition, 
we find milk contains alimentary principles capable of separ- 
ating themselves, and, in fact, habitually separated for econo- 
mical purposes, somewhat in the following proportions : — 

Water . . . . , . . .88 per cent. 
Oleaginous matter (cream, butter) . . . 3 „ 
Nitrogenous matter (cheese and albumen) . 4 „ 

Hydrocarbon (sugar) 4^ „ 

Saline matter (phosphate of lime, chloride of 

sodium, iron, &c.) i »» 

This rough average is the best way of stating the fe/Cts for 
physiological purposes ; since, as every mother, physician, and 
farmer knows, the proportions vary considerably in different 
specimens of even the same species of animal, and are influenced 
by differences in the mode of living. The argument is, that 
there, or thereabouts,, may be found the ratio which there 



THEOEDES OF DIETETICS. 7 

slioiild be in onr dietary, in the amonnts of the alimentaiy 
substances of wbicb the above maj be taken as representa- 
tives. That is to say that, supposing a man to consume 100 
ozs. of victual daily, the contents should be about — 

4 J pints of water ; 

3 ozs. of fat, oil, or butter ; 

^ lb. of animal matter, such as meat, cheese, or eggs ; 

4^ ozs. of sngar or starch ; 

^ oz. of salt, and some small quantity of bone or iron. 

A serious flaw in this argument is that while the type of the 
dietary is prepared for, and truly suits very well, the newly 
bom, we have no evidence that either it is intended for or 
would suit the adxdt. The milk of our domestic animals so 
closely resembles that which supported us in infancy, that if 
we carried the reasoning out to its logical consequences, we 
should all be feeding together no^ at the same manger. If 
the milk represents what the adult ought to make its diet, our 
bull would require only a little more butter, and our horse only 
a little less than we do ; our goat would want one-third more 
meaty or nitrogenous matter to be contained in the food than 
ourselves ; and the dog would require five times the proportion 
of flesh that is laid on his master's table to be aflbrded him.^ 
In point of fact, the life led by the young of all animals is 
much the same, whereas in adult age they differ widely in 

• The computation of the ingredients of milk is a deduction from the 
following table of M. Boussingault's analysis : — 



Hilkof 



Woman 

Cow 

Ass 

Mare 

Goat 

Sheep 

Dog 



Water per 
cent. 



88-9 
86-6 
00-3 
90-9 
84-9 
86-6 
77-9 



Caseins 

and 
Albumen 


Butter 


Sngar of 
Millr 


Salts 


3-9 


2-6 


4-3 


0-1 


40 


4-0 


4-8 


0-6 


1-9 


10 


6-4 


0-4 


3-3 


1-2 


4-3 


0-6 


60 


4-2 


4-4 


0-5 


4-6 


4-2 


50 


0-7 


15-8 


51 


41 


10 



8 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

tboir oconpatioiiA, and in the demand for the sort of viands 
best adapted to tliose occupations. 

There is greater promise of profit to the dietician in a 
calculation of the outgoings of matters resulting from the 
wear and tear of the body which constitute its life, reducing 
these to ultimate elementary substances, and thus ascertaining 
in what proportion to one another new supplies of ultimate 
elementary substances are required, merely to replace those 
necessarily consumed. This may be called the 'Theory of 
Demand and Supply.* Obviously the food which supplies the 
demand most accurately will be the most economical in the 
highest sense. We can measure, for example, the carbon and 
the nitrogen daily thrown off in the excretions, and then lay 
down a rule for the minimum quantity of those elements which 
the daily food must contain to keep up the standard weight. 
If the diet is such as to make it necessary to eat too much 
carbon in order to secure a due amount of nitrogen, there is an 
obvious waste, and the digestive viscera are burdened with a 
useless load. The same reckoning can be applied to the lime, 
sulphur, phosphorus, oxygen, and hydrogen, which go towards 
building up and renewing the tissues of the body. The 
dietary must contain these, or the body will waste away by 
the unstayed drain of destructive assimilation ; and if it con- 
tain any notable excess of them, not only is it wasteful, but 
may be pernicious to the health. 

Suppose, for instance, a gang of a hundred average 
prisoners to excrete in the shape of breathed air, urine, and 
fceces, daily 71^ lbs. of carbon and 4^ lbs. of nitrogen, which 
is pretty nearly the actual amount of those elements contained 
in the dried solids of the secretions, as estimated in current 
physiological works. Nitrogen and carbon to that extent, at 
least, must be both supplied. Now, if you fed them on bread 
and water alone, it would require at least 380 lbs. of bread 
daily to keep them alive for long ; for it takes that weight to 
yield the 4i^ lbs. of nitrogen daily excreted. But in 380J lbs. of 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 9 

bread there are 128^ lbs. of carbon, which is 57 lbs. above the 
needful quantity of that substance.^ 

If, on the other hand, yon replaced the bread by a purely 
animal diet, you would have to find 354 lbs. of lean meat in 
order to give them the needful 71^ lbs. of carbon ; and thus 
there would be wasted 105 lbs. of nitrogen which is contained 
in the meat, over and above the 4^ lbs. really required to pre- 
vent loss of weight.^ 

In the former case, each man would be eating about 4 lbs. 
of bread, in the latter, 3^ lbs. of meatier diem. If he ate less, 
he would lose his {strength. In the former case, there would 
be a quantity of starch, and in the latter, a quantity of albu- 
minous matter, which would not be wanted for nutrition, and 
would burden the system with a useless mass very liable to 
decompose and become noxious. 

Now, if a mixed dietary be adopted, 200 lbs. of bread with 
56 lbs. of meat woxdd supply all that is required. Besides 
water, 

200 lbs. of bread contains . . 60 of carbon . . 2 of nitrogen 
60 „ meat (including 12^ 

lbs. of fat upon it) .... 12 „ . . 2|- „ 

72 4^ 

It is quite true a man can live, and live a muscular life 
too, on meat and water only ; just as the captain of a steamer 
can go at a rapid pace by coaling up with the hams entrusted 
to him. The carbonaceous part of the meat not wanted for 
the renewal of tissue contributes in the liver to form glycogen 
(see * Nutrition '), and after aiding in muscular force is finally 
excreted as carbonic acid by the lungs ; but an uncertain 

' Dp. Letheby's Analysis gives 8*1 per cent, of nitrogenous matter to 
bread (Lectures on Foody p. 6). Of this J is nitrogen; Boussingault's 
analysis of gluten giving 14*60 per cent. {Ann. de Chim. et Phys. Ixiii. 229). 
M. Payen makes the proportion of carbon to nitrogen in bread as 30 to 1. 

* The proportion of nitrogen to carbon in albumen is as 1 to 3 J (1 6"5 to 
53*5 by Mulder's analysis, quoted in Lehmann's Phys, Chemie, i. 343). In 
red meat there is 74 per cent, of water (ditto iii. 96). 



10 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

quantity of waste nitrogenous compounds are in a strong bodj 
thrown away, and in a weakly body remain as a burden, if not- 
as a poison (see * Grout '). The glycogen supplied by the de- 
composition of the albuminoids in the liver is useful, but idle 
azotic and phosphoric compounds, such as uric acid, excess of 
urea, urate of soda and of lime, cystine, bileverdin, supera- 
bundant phosphates, <Sbc., are troublesome inmates, apt to be 
at mischief when they have nothing else to do. 

Judged by the above standard, it will be clearly seen that 
milk does not represent a typical diet for an adult population, 
the nitrogenous matter being in considerable excess in propor- 
tion to the carbonaceous. This is suitable to the young animal, 
whose main duty consists in growing, that is in appropriating 
an excess of nitrogenous matter to form an addition to the 
body daily, but not to the full-grown, who has to develope 
force, or its Equivalent, heat, by the combustion of carbon, and 
had rather not go on growing. 

Calculation such as this, applied to the other numerous 
though less bulky constituents of the body, is invaluable. It 
affords a bstsis for the administration of food-supply to armies, 
navies, prisons, and other bodies of men dependent upon us ; 
it enables us to detect the causes of waste, and to distribute 
limited means in an economical fashion. It tells us why 
nations dependent on one kind of food for subsistence can 
never be wealthy — for they devour and waste their substance ; 
why they can never be strong in mind or body — for their 
whole time is occupied in a struggle for existence ; and it 
teaches statesmen to avoid those ruinous revolutions, which, as 
has been well observed, arise more often from want of food 
than from want of liberty. ^ 

' The records of the Jacquerie and first French Revolution show that 
the mob "was in deadly fear of acttlal starvation, and was cruel from despair. 
Our poor law, whatever its defects, ought to he credited with this political 
merit, that it renders physical starvation to one class through the selfish- 
ness of another an impossibility. There is a great difference between the 
fear of poverty, which is a healthy stimulant, and the fear of death from 
want of food, which is maddening. 



THEOBIES OF DIETETICS. 11 

But tlie calculation mnst always be open to the correction 
of continnons observation and experiment. Chemical analysis 
is much too yonng an art to be infallible, and hitherto un- 
detected substances and conditions are year by year turning up 
to modify our conclusions. And a very wide margin must be 
left for unforeseen contingencies, and a discretionary power be 
placed in the hands of individuals, or there is a risk lest the 
administrator should have to regret making too precise a 
reckoning. He whose income is only just equal to his expendi- 
ture, is always on the brink qf insolvency. 

The most important modification required to be made 
arises out of the differences of work demanded. Men may 
languish in prisons, invalids may lie bedridden, paupers may 
wait for better times, nations may idle away existence, on 
a scale of food- supply which is followed by death from starva- 
tion when work is demanded. How shall the effect of 
physical exertion bo reckoned ? Here the engineers have 
helped us with their precise science. Joule of Manchester 
analyzed, about thirty years ago, the relation which the heat 
used in machinery, as a source of power, bore to the force of 
motion thus made active. He found means of proving 
that raising the temperature of a pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit was exactly equivalent to raising 772 lbs. to the 
height of a foot. And, conversely, that the fall of 772 lbs. 
might be so applied as to heat a pound of water one degree 
Fahrenheit. Thus, the mechanical work represented in the 
lifting 772 lbs. a foot high, or one pound 772 ft. high, forms 
the 'dynamic equivalent,' the measure of the possible strength, 
of one degree of temperature as marked by the thermometer 
in a pound of water. Physiologists seized eagerly on the 
opportunity which Joule's demonstration seemed to afford 
t^em of estimating, in actual numerals, the relation of living 
bodies to the work they have to do. So much earth, raised 
on an embankment, represents so much heat developed in the 
machinery, living or dead, muscle or steel, gang of labourers 
or steam engine, which raised it. Both muscle and steel come 



12 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

equally under the great physical laws of the universe which the 
mechanician has expounded. Now, in the animal frame, the 
supply of heat, and therefore the supply of capacity for work, 
is that which is developed from latency into energy by the 
chemical actions, the ceaseless round of unending change, 
which is an inseparable part of life. The amount of fully 
digested food, converted through several stages into gaseous, 
liquid, and solid excretory matters, produces by its chemical 
changes a definite amount of heat, of which a definite amount 
escapes, and a definite amount is employed in working the 
involuntary machinery of the body, and the rest is available 
for conversion at will into voluntary muscular action. As the 
mechanician allows for the effect of friction, &c., in making 
his calculations, so the physiologist allows for the action of 
diffusion, condactiou, imperfect secretion, and so on, in reckon- 
ing the quantity of heat available, and allows also for the 
waste of mechanical power involved in the form and structure 
of the limbs. To make all thess allowances necessitates 
courses of experiments and calculations which have taken 
more than a generation, and will probably take more than 
another generation to complete. But the road seems clear, 
and already we have gained fruitful information as to the sort 
of food by which we can expect to get most work out of men 
and beasts ; we have found the cause of many of our failures 
in distributing victuals ; and we have learnt bow to avoid 
much cruelty and injustice that our fathers unknowingly per- 
petrated. 

It may be reckoned from experimental calculations, too 
long to be inserted here, that the expenditure of force in 
working the machinery of the body — in raising the diaphragm 
about fifteen times, and contracting the heart about sixty times, 
a minute ; in continuously rolling the wave of the intestinal 
canal ; and in various other involuntary and voluntary move- 
ments whicb cannot be avoided even by a mere cumberer of 
the ground, without doing anything that can be called work — 
it may be reckoned that the expenditure of force in doing this 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 13 

is equal to that which would raise a man of ten stone 10,000 ft. 
But a man cannot even pick oakum without expending more 
force and requiring more to support it. A prisoner on penal 
diet has half as much again. 

There are several reasons for believing that in assigning 
their physiological functions to the several sorts of food, we 
should ascribe nearly all the business of giving birth to force 
to the solid hydrocarbons, starch and fat, by their conversion 
into carbonic acid. Just as we have good grounds for thinking 
that it is the conversion of the solid hydrocarbon, coal, into 
carbonic acid, which drives our locomotives. It is not neces- 
sary to be acquainted with every step of the process, which in 
the body we confessedly are not, to appreciate the argument. 
To the nitrogenous aliments seems allotted the task of con- 
tinuously replacing the wear and tear of the nitrogenous 
tissues. Flesh food, or that which comes near it in nitrogen- 
ous contents, after a few changes replaces the lost flesh which 
has passed away in excretions ; and thus the engineer takes 
iron ore, makes it into wrought plates or steel, and renews the 
corroded boiler-plate or worn piston-rod. One of the most 
cogent of these reasons is that the chief nitrogen-holding 
excretion, the urea, is little, if at all, increased in quantity by 
an increase in the work done ; whereas the excretion of car- 
bonic acid in a decided manner follows the amount of muscular 
exertion. Now it is very clear that if the supply of power to 
do work depended on the renewal by food of the nitrogenous 
tissues, and oil their decomposition, the urea would have no 
escape from being largely augmented in quantity by muscular 
efforts, and diminished by rest. This is not the case. At fiist, 
exercise diminishes the amount of urea (Parkes), and, even 
when continued, very little increases it (E. Smith, Haughton, 
and several others quoted in Parkes's 'Hygiene,* p. 383). 
The very small increase which takes place during the following 
rest may be attributed fairly to the extra wear of the muscles 
from extra motion, just as a steam engine is expected to require 
more repair than usual when in hard use. But that amount 



14 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

of repair demanded is as nothing, compared with the increa^ 
in the tonnage of coal consumed. 

To give an example of the mode of working out a problem 
by this theory : — Dr. Frankland ascertains with the calori- 
meter, which calculates the amount of heat evolved as a ther- 
mometer does its degree, the quantity of energy or force, under 
the form of heat, evolved during the complete oxidation in 
the laboratory of a given weight of alimentary substance. It 
was explained before, that heat and mechanical work, being 
convertible into one another, bear an eternally sure proportion 
to one another : now, and for ever, a definite production of so 
much heat represents the potentiality of so much motion, 
used or wasted according to circumstances. So that from 
the reading of the calorimeter may be reckoned how many extra 
pounds ought to be raised a foot high by a man who has eaten 
an extra pound of the food in question ; how many steps a foot 
high he ought to raise himself (say a weight of ten stone) 
before he has worked out the value of his victuals. Dr. 
Frankland has thus estimated the comparative value of foods 
as bases of muscular exertion, and he has made out a table of 
the weight and cost of various articles that would require to 
be consumed in the system to enable a man of ten stone to 
raise himself 10,000 ft. This is equal to going up a ladder 
two miles and one-third high — a stijff day's work. Three pounds 
and a half of lean beef at a cost of at least 3a. 6d. would be 
wanted ; but if little more than half a pound of suet, worth 
about 5 J(?., were substituted, the same effect might be elicited. 
A liberal three quarts of milk at 5d. a quart would do the 
same thing; but if cabbages or apples happened to be the 
only available food, 12 lbs. of the former or nearly 8 lbs. of 
the latter must be swallowed — an intolerable burden even for 
the d/ura messorwm ilia. There is great wisdom, then, in the 
journeyman tailor who adds suet or bacon to his cabbage, and 
in the Yorkshireman who puts a slice of cheese in the apple- 
pie which often serves him for breakfast, dinner, and supper — 
for the said cheese is very high in the scale of nutrimentary 



THEORIES OF DIETETICS. 15 

fuel, and lOd. will buy as much of it as is equal to the 3^ lbs. 
of beef. But in wheaten bread we find a true friend, for of it 
two pounds and a third, costing under 5c2., supply a food 
which really might be eaten alone ; whereas the consumption 
of the others as a sole diet is of course theoretical — the ave- 
rage digestive organs cannot bear them. The mere weight, 
for instance, of 12 lbs. of cabbage would knock a man up, 
if carried in a vessel so ill-adapted to sustain heavy loads as 
the stomach. 

Beverting now to the gang of a hxmdred prisoners formerly 
used as an illustration, and supposing we wanted to put them 
on hard labour involving some exertion equivalent to half Dr. 
Frankland's unit of ten stone raised 10,000 feet — such, for 
instance, as carrying 1;^ miles, up ladders, three tons of stone 
daily — ^we should find by calculation that the addition of 
117 lbs. of bread, or of 68 lbs. of bread with 44 lbs. of lean 
meat and 63 lbs. of potatoes, to that diet which would keep 
up their flesh without labour, would be barely suflBlcient, and 
that they would lose a little weight daily. Cases of illness 
from overwork would be improperly frequent. Give them a 
draught of milk, or a cup of cocoa and sugar, or some oatmeal- 
porridge and treacle, or even some green vegetables, and the 
danger is probably averted. But yet, a wide margin must be 
allowed for discretionary modification according to circum- 
stances which the immediate administrators of victualling 
arrangements alone can observe. 

Still more necessary is modification according to circum- 
stances required, when we come to deal with individuals 
instead of masses. When the tailor in Laputa sternly refused 
to take the usual measurements, and insisted on constructing 
Captain Gulliver's coat, waistcoat, and breeches on abstract 
principles, the customer vowed it was the worst suit of clothes 
he ever had in his life. We should certainly fail in the same 
way, if we did not take the measure of numberless contin- 
gencies in the daily life, and numberless peculiarities in the 
persons of those who consult us about their diet and regimen, 



16 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

or who aro (liko tho inmates of prisons) actually dependent 
upon US for living at all. 

Even healthy persons are not absolutely perfect in the 
performance of all their functions, and a good deal of the 
food swallowed escapes digestion and is wasted among the 
excreta. A considerable margin must be allowed for that. 
And different forms of food and different preparations of 
those forms are suited, from their mere mechanical construc- 
tion, to different constitutions of body. A diet which in an 
old man may bo wasted from lack of solution, and which 
would therefore be a starvation diet to him, may in a young 
man be richly ample. On the other hand, the easily soluble 
but scanty diet on which the old man might flourish, would 
not suffice for his active, growing grandson. Then again, 
very different lives are necessarily led by different men, and 
even by the same man at various times, and variations in the 
more quantity of food, at the instigation of appetite, are not 
sufficient to accommodate the diet to the work. Brain- work, 
body-work, in-door work, and out-door work, all introduce 
modifications in the daily requirements of the nutritive organs. 
There are also physiological drains upon the constitution, such 
as that felt by a nursing mother, and pathological drains, such 
as that of a purulent discharge, which have to be provided 
for. And it must be remembered also that many morbid con- 
ditions, which yet do not keep a patient from his employment, 
such as gastric catarrh, or tuberculosis, yet interfere with the 
due solution of the meals. And some, such as gout and 
diabetes, are aggravated by eatables which are wholesome to 
a healthy constitution. And there are hereditary tendencies 
which may be turned into diseases by popular articles of diet, 
and not a few idiosyncracies to be allowed for. 

With the safeguards of due allowance for the above ele- 
ments of variation, and a close eye upon current experiment, 
the theory of demand and supply in dietetics may be turned 
to the very best account by rational medicine. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 17 



CHAPTER II. 
the choice of food. 

§ 1. Butcher's Meat. 

The lean of butcher's meat should show a deep purplish red 
tint, with a bloom over it on the outside of the. muscle, and 
a lighter vermilion red with a shade of purple in the cut 
surface. The lean of beef may be a little marbled with fat, 
but that of mutton should be quite even in hue. When sliced 
very fine, or stretched in a thin layer over the fat, as naturally 
in the ribs, it is semi-transparent and orange-vermilion in 
uniform streaks. The surface is quite dry, even the cut 
scarcely wetting the finger. In substance it is moderately 
soft, but extremely elastic, so that no mark is left after pressure. 
A day or two in the larder should make no difference in this 
respect. 

There is very little odour in a single joint of good meat, 
and it is to most people not unpleasant. When made powerful 
by accumulation, as in a shop, it may be described as refreshing 
and exhilarating, like a sea-breeze. 

It should not waste much in cooking. That is to say, it 
should not contain an excess in water, nor part with it too 
easily. Dried in the laboratory, healthy muscular fibre, accord- 
ing to Dr. Letheby * does not part with above 70 to 74 per 
cent, of its weight ; whereas, when in an unhealthy condition 
it wiU lose as much as 80 per cent. Cooking is, of course, 
not the complete chemical desiccation alluded to ; but its 
relation to animal fibre is the same. 

' Lectures on Foody p. 235. 
C 



18 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

When a joint isbrongbt to a table roasted, it holds well its 
gravy, which gashes out from a cut in a rich brown stream, 
full of appetizing scent and flavour, and called graphically by 
the chemist * Osmazome.' This is the consumer's readiest 
reckoner of the value of mutton. 

The tastes of the muscular and adipose tissues should be 
quite distinct from one another. The mutton lean should 
have no flavour of tallow, nor the beef of suet. Tenderness is 
a virtue, but freshness should not be sacrificed to it. 

The raw fat of beef, whose base is principally margarine, 
should be of a light yellow colour, like fresh butter ; that of 
mutton, which is mainly stearine, should be very white. 

Lamb and veal should have very white and translucent 
fat ; and if the whole carcase can be examined, the fat about 
the kidneys should be especially observed, as it is not rarely 
reddish and unwholesome, while the rest is in good condition. 

Of lamb and veal the lean should be pale, but evenly tinted 
and free from mottling. 

The above mentioned features of prime meat are stiU more 
to be insisted upon when we choose the various internal parts. 
They decompose quicker, and when decomposed are more 
unwholesome than ordinary muscular fibre in the same state. 
They should have a clean bright even colour throughout, and be 
free from spots of congestion or bruises. 

Liver, kidneys, and heart become very hard by too great 
or too prolonged heat. Unless, therefore, a very small dish is 
required, they should be avoided. 

Butchers are fond of palming off the pancreas, or * stomach-, 
bread,' in place of the ' sweet-bread,' which is the thymus 
gland of the calf. It may recognized, even when cooked and 
chopped up, by its large veins and arteries. It is very inferior 
in digestibility to the more delicate gland. 

In roasting, the fat of meat should not run away into the 
dripping. 

If these characters are found, we may be satisfied that our 
kitchen is provided with the best article, however moderate 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 19 

"the price may be ; without them we are ill served, however 
much we pay. They are guarantees of wholesomeness, and 
therefore worth more than all the negative evidence of absence 
of unwholesomeness. 

The immediate antecedents, and the mode of slaughtering 
the animal, certainly very much affect the flesh. Chronic 
loss of health makes it not onl;^ less easy of digestion, but 
less nutritious in proportion to the quantity eaten. The mus- 
cular fibre of a beast in poor condition is pale in colour, and a 
quantity of watery fot of bad colour is intimately mixed up 
with the fasciculi. The colours of the two seem to blend so as 
to present a marbled aspect. Such meat is wet, sodden, and 
inelastic. If it retains the mark of a finger pressed upon it, 
it is unfit to eat. When left unwiped, it parts with its watery 
constituents, and soon lies in a pool of blood-stained fluid. 
When cooked its gravy is pale and mawkish, and it has lost a 
good deal of its substance. In the museum of the College of 
Surgeons^ there is preserved a mutton chop, the meat of 
which is converted into a waxy or adipocerous substance, 
obviously no more fit for food than are those sticks of 
adhesive matter with which our beaux stiffen their whiskers. 
This is simply an extremely advanced specimen of a condition 
which is commencing interstitially in the carcases of all 
chronically invalided animals. It is that degeneration of 
muscle with which the classical description of Dr. Quain 
made all in our profession familiar twenty-five years ago,' as 
occurring in the human body. It is found not only in organs 
which have been exhausted by chronic inflammations, but in 
those which are simply hypertrophied, and with a frequency 
closely proportioned to the frequency with which the special 
organs become so enlarged. 

It is the more important to notice the effect of chronic 

' No. 10 in the Catalogtte of the Pathological Senas, 
s See the plates in the Medico-Chirurffical TransaeHone, vol. zzxiii. 
p. 196. The colouring is very accurate. 

c2 



20 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

disease upon the flesh of adult animals, because it does not in 
many cases prevent their being fatted up for market and pre- 
senting a delusive appearance of prime condition. Thus the 
* rot,* always associated with the presence of fluke- worms in 
the liver, exhibits itself at an early stage in the sheep by a 
great tendency to plumpness. The shrewd breeder, Mr. 
Bakewell, * to whom farmers owe so much ' (more indeed 
than their customers) *used to overflow certain of his 
pastures, and when the water was run ofl*, turn upon them those 
of his sheep which he wanted to prepare for the market. They 
speedily became rotted, and in the early stage of the disease 
they accumulated flesh and fat with wonderful rapidity. By 
this manoeuvre he used to gain Ave or six weeks upon his 
neighbours.' * But what was the worth of this hypertrophied 
muscle and adipose tissue ? Breeders, if they give a thought 
to the subject, must be conscious that the heart and arteries 
do not grow at the same morbid pace with the rest of the 
body, and the animal, imperfectly supplied with blood, is in a 
state of extreme anaemia. Indeed, one of the earliest known 
and best known tests of * rot,* is the condition of the eye-baJl 
and lid, the inside of which is injected, but pale and tallowy, 
while the tear-gland is yellow instead of pink.^ We know the 
look well in our chlorotic patients. 

Not quite so pronounced, but of the same nature, is the 
anasmia which results from the constant eflbrts of the farmer 
to produce a flock which will lay on the greatest weight of 
flesh in the shortest possible number of weeks. Premature 
development of size and of puberty are in his sight a virtue, 
both in those destined for the butcher and in those he selects 
as breeders. It is a saving of time, and time is money ; but 
saving is not always the best economy. I fear our agricultural 

» Youatt, The Sheep, p. 446. 

^ * That dire distemper sometimes may the swain 

Though late discern ; when on the lifted lid 

Or visual orb, the turgid veins are pale.' 

I)yer*s Fleece, book i. line 266. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 21 

societies are not free from the blame of tliis, inducing competi- 
tion in balk by their system of prizes ; and I do not see how 
they can connteract the evil that has been wrought, unless by 
instituting rewards for prime joints, to be adjudged at the 
table as well as in the larder. 

Good mutton is generally small ; indeed hypertrophied 
breeds can only be made eatable by being kept alive till their 
constitution has grown up to their size. To illustrate the 
matter by our own race, a school-boy of six foot one never 
becomes hearty till he is at least one or two and twenty. But 
after that the weedy youth may harden and be a fine man. 
So in these overgrown lambs, if they are kept till four years 
old, the meat is very choice ; but of course the temptation is 
to bring them to the butcher directly they are as tall and broad 
as a real sheep ; and the farmer looks upon himself as a bene- 
factor to his species, as having made two animals in the time 
formerly required to make one. But I hear with sorrow of 
attempts being made to ' improve,' as it is called, the Welsh 
breed, and trust they may be unsuccessful. A more promising 
statement is that Welsh mutton, in the London market, is 
imitated by a cross between the Southdown and the Scotch.^ 
We may pardon the deception, if the meat is as good as its 
model. 

To get good mutton in country places is now a serious 
problem, and I would suggest to my professional brethren, 
who are of course permanent residents, that they cannot 
confer a greater boon on families in the same position of life 
as most of us are, that is to say, not rich enough to have parks 
and farms, and yet willing to pay a good price for a good 
article — I say they cannot confer a greater benefit on these 
their neighbours, than by inducing them to join in a * mutton 
club,' buying the lambs of a full- sized breed, and keeping 
them to at least three and a half years old before killing. The 
price per pound will not be less than charged by the butcher, 
but it will supply an article twice as good as his. 

* Macdonald, Cattle, Sheep, and Deer, p. 483. 



22 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

There lias been felt a good deal of alarm, more I tliink 
than is justifiable, during the last few years on the subject of 
the class of parasites which are not uncommon in the flesh of 
all animals, namely the Oyaticercua and the Trichma ; and which, 
when sufficiently numerous to be conspicuous, constitute what 
is called * measly meat.' 

The GysHcercvs of the pig is the sort most frequently seen, 
forming a cyst as large as a hemp«6eed. Its commonest habitat 
is the tongue, on the under surface of which it may be dis- 
covered even without cutting into the interior. You may also 
find the oval holes left by it when dried up in, otherwise, very 
perfect hams, and opaque white specks, like seeds, intimately 
adherent to the muscular fibres, which are its remains dried 
into calcareous matter. This measle-worm of the pig has 
been found by the industrious Grerman naturalist Kiichen- 
meister to be the undeveloped embryo of the Tcenia solium, the 
tape-worm of most usual occurrence in Great Britain. By 
keeping them alive in warm milk he was able to watch the 
development of the animals. The Gysticercus of the ox is 
smaller, and is either rarer or seldomer discovered in this 
country. It becomes the Tcenia mediocanellata, the species 
which infests the intestines of Germans, Swiss, and others, 
producing exactly the same inconveniences as that with which 
we are familiar. As the measle-worm of the mouse produces 
the peculiar tape-worm of the cat (Tce^iia crassicollia)^ as the 
brain hydatid of the sheep (fioBrminis cerehralis) produces the 
Tcenia ccenurus in the dog, so the minute larva which infests 
the flesh of our prey revenges itself on its natural enemy. An 
old boa constrictor is always a complete museum of tape- 
worms, derived from the various living game which it has 
devoured. 

There is no doubt but what the boiling temperature 
entirely destroys the vitality of these creatures. When cooked 
they can do us no more harm than a baked lion. So that it 
can very rarely, if ever, happen in civilized countries for them 
ti) be transmitted directly to human intestines. To explain 



THE CHOICE^OF FOOD. 23 

their presence another mode of communication must be thought 
of, and I think it is not far to seek. Though we civilized men 
do not eat our food raw, dogs very often do so, and they dis- 
tribute far and wide by their excreta all that escapes the 
solution of the gastric juice. Thus the embryos get spread 
abroad on the earth, into streams and wells, and especially in 
our kitchen gardens among the materials of our salads. I 
had once brought to me a child of three years old with tape- 
worm, a very rare, thing at that age, and thus affording 
peculiar facilities for detecting its origin. The patient was 
the son of a sculptor in the suburbs of London, and all the 
cooking arrangements of the family seemed perfect, as also 
their water supply. But in the stone-yard, which had once 
been a garden, grew a quantity of nasturtiums, and among 
these the baby used to play, and sometimes ate the flowers and 
fruit. As the yard was open to the road, it was much fre- 
quented by the dogs of the neighbourhood, arid showed un- 
mistakeable signs of their presence. One could not question 
tjiat here lay the carrier of the little patient's troublesome 
inmate. The observant and enthusiastic physician of Iceland, 
Dr. Hj&ltelin, also informs me that intestinal parasites are 
exceedingly common in that country, and that the cause 
appears to be the distribution of their ova by stray dogs who 
are always in and out of the kail gardens. Another possible 
source of Toenia may be shell-fish, eaten raw, and often con- 
taining in their stomachs minute organisms derived from 
decayed garbage thrown away or used as bait. Only the other 
day^I found in the prehensile organs of a prawn a shred of 
animal fibre, and saw a man fishing for crabs and prawns at 
the mouth of the Arun with a piece of paunch. With all 
these possible sources of infection there is no need to suspect 
butcher's meat, which is never eaten raw except by some 
eccentric amateur savage. 

The real evil of measly meat consists in its proneness to 
rapid decomposition in spite of cookery, and to that may fisdrlj 
be credited cases of illness which are reputed to have followed 



24 GENER.VL DIETETICS. 

its consumption. So that it is fair enough that all that is 
largely infected should bo destroyed. In France there nsed to 
be appointed to the markets oflBcers called * langueyeurs * from 
their inspecting the tongues of carcases offered for sale ; but 
their legal authorisation, and possible tyranny, seems to have 
given dissatisfaction, for M. Delpech says they have no lawful 
authority, but are employed simply as a warrant between 
buyer and seller. They have to report to the inspector of 
markets, usually a skilled veterinarian, who judges if the 
quantity of measle-worm is sufficient to render the meat un- 
wholesome. The shoulder and the breast are the parts usually 
examined as tests. ^ 

The Trichina spiralis is another parasitic inhabitant of live 
flesh, of a more active character and of a higher grade in 
creation than that last discussed ; for instead of being a solid 
worm like the Tesnia, it is possessed of an intestine.* It is 
sometimes found in human flesh, and in pork, appearing as a 
minute white speck, just visible to the naked eye, which con- 
stitutes its nest, in which one or two curled-up specimens ane 
seen, by a microscope, in active movement, but prevented from 
doing harm by the cyst in which they are imprisoned. The 
danger consists in its escape and wonderfully rapid multiplica- 
tion, under special circumstances not very clearly defined ; 
for it exists at most times in considerable numbers without 
giving rise to any symptoms whatever. But there seems 
sufficient evidence that in a fe.w instances an epidemic has 
occurred of its invasion, in overpowering quantities at once, of 
human bodies, through the food eaten. The symptoms are 
inflammatory fever and local lesions from the interstitial 
presence of a mass of quickly increasing foreign bodies. But 
these instances have been extremely rare. A few years ago a 
physiologist in this metropolis, having become the fortunate 

* Delpech, Diet. encycL des sciences mSd. art. Ladrerie : an excellent 
monograph on the subject, date 1868. 

' Professor Owen has identified the TVichina as one of the Coelelmintha, 
and the College of Physicians has adopted his classification. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 25 

possessor of some specimens of live Trichina, instantly invited 
a crowded conversazione of medical men and others interested 
in the natural history of our species, and introduced to them 
by means of the hydro-oxygen microscope his acquisition. 
Very few of the party, if any, had seen one before : and very 
few, if any, have seen one since. 

The Trichina is said to cause degeneration of the muscular 
fibres in its vicinity, so that the joints infested would not 
present the healthy appearance described at the beginning of 
this section. It is killed by the temperature of boiling water, 
so that if a dish is fairly cooked, it must be quite safe. The 
cases which have occurred of its proving deleterious have been 
where the meat has been eaten raw, or imperfectly warmed 
through and served cold, with its defects concealed by some 
enveloping sauce. No decently delicate feeders need be afraid 
of it. If the leaden dull colour of the meat before us has 
been destroyed, so that it does not look raw when the gravy 
has run off, and if the peculiar texture of fibre which distin- 
guishes uncooked meat is removed, we may be sure that the 
temperature has mounted up to that sufficient to coagulate 
albumen (150® Fahr.), and that any stray Trichina would be 
killed on the spot or permanently imprisoned in a solid nest. 

It may be proper to mention that no form of drying, salt- 
ing, or even smoking at a low heat, is sufficient to destroy the 
Trichina. So that when travelling in Germany it is wise 
altogether to avoid the sausages and uncooked ham often 
served up in thin slices, and which, in point of fact, have been 
proved the sources of trichinous poisoning in the few instances 
on record. 

The whole influence of f&cers and wflcummations upon the 
flesh of animals thereby affected during life, and whether they 
should be considered as a reason for its being pronounced 
absolutely unfit for food, is a moot point. There is a good 
deal of hearsay evidence on both sides, but I cannot find any 



26 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

crucial cases recorded as observed by competent witnesses.^ 
An enormous qaantitj of meat is destroyed on this ground, 
for, according to Mr. Youatt's estimate, one- fifteenth of the 
whole homed stock of the country die annually of inflamma- 
tory fever, milk fever, red-water, hoove and diarrhoea, and 
one-tenth of the sheep and lambs are carried off by corre- 
sponding ailments.^ Wlien we add those which perish by 
accident and accidental sickness, it is obvious that several 
million tons of meat are thus taken out of human mouths by 
the law which insists on the destruction of all which bears 
the marks of disease. Opponents say that if it possess only a 
fraction of the nutritive power of good meat, it ought not to be 
wasted, but sold at a lower price, provided always proof can 
be obtained that it does not, when eaten, communicate 
disease. This, as said before, is a moot point, but yet what is 
certain is to my mind quite sufficient to justify the exclusive- 
ness of the existing regulations. It is certain that there are 
some diseases, originating in beasts, which may be communi- 
cated to men handling the carcase before it has been submitted 
to the action of heat, as for example piistula maligna and 
glanders. And some fevers, such as typhus, are common to 
man and beast, and are indubitably contagious during life, 
and probably after death, till the flesh has passed through the 
purification of fire. Now most of those who would buy 
diseased meat on account of its cheapness, cook their own 
victuals, and are exposed to all the evils which may accrue 
from handling a dangerous article. Again, this * braxy ' meat, 
as it is technically called, runs rapidly into decomposition, 
and becomes a serious nuisance on that ground alone. It is 

* * In no well-ascertained case has it been found that any ill effects have 
been produced by eating the flesh of diseased animals, although there is 
abundant evidence that at the outbreak of the distemper in Massachusetts, 
and before public attention had been directed to its true character, a con- 
siderable number of animals, in which the usual premonitory symptoms had 
appeared, were slaughtered and their flesh sold.' — Second Annual Report of 
the State Board of Health, Massachusetts, 1871. 

2 Youatt, * CattW Preface. 



!!S3: :ffl:n:H iw iriiUL. 




SZxqSI. JK 

eniEaiinxs noBxcos. lEr. Tmac BCx:Bs:zQi«eiEm ic joQ: 
odizK md?z- of sim£ inrnzn. lor sl is: «.La. lOQC^iKJiL 'voms. ^ 

kmmuA samt ^ ■mi^'ianniL'wnDJX. smiakxi. si jebba joiS: & ^' ^" 
cif "^18: jwiHiin. jEZi£ 5i. mnm ibzs "naEs- ^wnmi. xk- sues. A 

TT vTn'*T lacsac ^aaasar tmbbl'xw 



^iL^tT'^,^m 



IsrsHjk nf 'aK' :ziisbl- "jtm -y^'r^nir iioa p»r 2211c tttit mik* 



^rmg- 'S'pss ssjst xl iccz: tt^Fmffrgnnr nr nnEcsiazikl 
^Ba^^z^rEsr n! Bna. xiii»i»£ kdL Ct*iu i » 9^ Tx^^ ziro^es ^is 5r 

tsuc dsEsaniB. aE%^s2H«£. saii insK imt libiac 5^ jis lait ^ikoc. of 



J^ T=z: mnmsscz nigTiiL.nr «uiniiBt ^"'^-■-" — €«DnL ii£. tf ^ 













28 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

decomposition. The stomach can, indeed, througli habit be- 
come used to food in this state ; and thns may be accounted 
for the tales we read of savages, who bury their flesh till it is 
putrid like the Eskimos, or like the Zulus, with whom (accord- 
ing to Dr. Colenso) the synonym for heaven is *niaggotty 
meat.' Of course rather than die of starvation, or be reduced 
to the straits suffered by Hezekiah's army, one would acquire 
such an habit, and invent a sauce to make it tolerable ; but it 
is scarcely worth while to do so in civilised society. Under 
ordinary circumstances it is decidedly to be shunned, for not 
a few cases are recorded where decayed animal food has pro- 
duced severe and even fatal diarrhoea, in spite of cookery 
having concealed some of its repulsiveness, as may be read in 
Dr. Christison's work on Poisons. 



§ 2. Poultry and Game. 

Tenderness is the chief virtue in poultry, and is most dif- 
ficult to find in the winter season. Spring chickens come in 
with May, but during the five previous months much care is 
needfal in purchasing this article of the table. A young, and 
therefore tender bird, may be known before plucking by the 
largeness of the feet and the leg-joints. And when a fowl 
appears at table with a thin neck and violet thighs, it is wise 
to avoid being helped to the leg. These are invariable signs 
of age and toughness. 

The same violet tinge may be noticed in the thighs of old 
turkeys, which are also distinguished by their hairiness. The 
age of ducks and geese may be tested by their beaks, the 
lower part of which breaks away easily in youth. 

Besides being tough and indigestible, an old fowl has a 
rank flavour, like a close hen-house, which arises from the 
absorption into its flesh of the oil furnished by nature to 
lubricate the feathers. This is still more perceptible in old 
ducks and geese. It may often be tasted some time after a 
meal, and must therefore, like most rank oils, arrest digestion. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 29 

Game may ronghlj be selected by the same roles as 
poultry. Those who hare interested themselTes in ornitho- 
logy may also get some help from observing the nndereloped 
spnrs in young gallinaceons birds, and the pointed long-wing 
feathers of the yonng partridge, which become ronnded at the 
tip when he is old. 

Poultry and game shoold not be too fat. In cooking, the 
oify adipose tissne becomes rank, and is less digestible than 
the fat of mammalia, 

§ 3. Fish. 

The sanitarian has not mnch advice to give concerning the 
marketing of raw fish, except that it shooid be fresh. The 
guides by which to judge of this are the fhlness of the eye- 
balls, and the bright pink hne of the gills. The sense of 
smell cannot be trusted to, as it may be deceived by the use of 
ice. When cooked, the flesh of fresh fish is firm but friable ; 
that whidi is stale is flabby and stringy, even if preserved by 
cold from actual putrefiurtion. 

The less salt, and the colder, the water is whence our fish 
comes, the better adapted is it for the table. At Gibraltar it 
is not hard to distinguish the mullet caught on the Atlantic 
side of the rock from that which lives in the Mediterranean, a 
warmer and more concentrated sea ; so much is the advantage 
on ihe side of the former. An Icelander dining at my house 
passed by with polite scorn a piece of prime Scarborough 
cod. Seeing my surprise, he explained that no one who has 
tasted it at Beikiavik could bear to eat cod in England, and 
that it was best in the polar circle, braced up by the melting 
icebergs. The nearly fr«sh waters of Loch Fyne supply the 
choicest herrings, and the pure light mountain stresons a 
better trout than our lowland streams, where the atmospheric 
p ress u re is greater. 

Every sort is best when it is cheapest, for then it is most 
plentiful and in follest season. It is a wise plan to contract 



30 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

with your fishmonger to send yon so many dishes a week at a 
fixed snm, and then it becomes his interest to snpply that 
with which the market most abounds. For healthy persons 
every kind ordinarily exposed for sale in England is whole- 
some, provided it be good of its kind, and not spoilt in the 
cooking. The selection of fish for invalids will be discussed 
laten 

Complete cookery, however, should be insisted upon. 
The conger-eel for example in good condition makes a good 
economical dish, but it is a very foul feeder, and has been 
known, if carelessly grilled, to cause diarrhoea, probably from 
the fetid contents of the stomach saturating the flesh. And 
at the Pathological Socieiy of May 5, there was shown a speci- 
men of the bunch-headed tapeworm {JBothrioc&phaLus latvs) 
which had grown in a person used to eat half-cooked fresh 
water fish. 

The only sort of reptile of dietetic importance is the turtle. 
It is sometimes viewed as a mere luxury^ but is in reality a 
most digestible and nutritious food, and if more demanded 
would quickly become more plentiful in the market. The 
creature grows too slowly for it ever to remunerate artificial 
culture, but nature supplies it in immense quantities, and its 
tenacity of life enables it to be brought over alive from the 
tropics. Fresh turtle is much more costly than it ought to 
be, but the rival importation of dried turtle fins is reducing 
the price. This last named article is of great value, and of 
moderate price ; from it first-rate real turtle-soup may be 
made at no more than the expense of mock- turtle, if we deduct 
the price of the wine used, which to some palates is no im- 
provement. The fins should be soaked for at least twenty- 
four hours before cooking. 

Caviare^ the roe of the sturgeon, is best obtained from a 
fishmonger. The dealer in preserved provisions seems to 
think it aU the better for being preserved, whereas it should 
be as fresh as can be got, exhibiting its freshness by its soft- 
ness and light colour. That black, hard sort of fish-jam 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 31 

-whicli is sometimes served up, is really unfit for human con- 
sumption. 

All that has been said above, applies equally to Crustacea 
and shells ; but an additional remark maybe made about crabs. 
They should be cleansed scrupulously before cooking, and if 
that which is removed from their prehensile organs is fetid, 
they are hardly to be considered safe. The frequency with 
which crabs disagree unexpectedly with a healthy stomach, 
may be attributed with reason to the garbage on which the 
creature lives. And of oysters it should be remembered that 
they are to be eaten raw, or, at most, barely warmed through ; 
for complete boiling makes the flesh tough; so that it is 
prudent, if they come from near river-mouths, to keep them 
ahvo in a shallow dish of clean brine for a day or two, feeding 
ihem with meal, and changing the water so as to leave them 
bare twice a day, in imitation of the tide. They become 
peculiarly plump and wholesome under this management. 

§ 4. Garden Peoduce. 

The commonest fault committed by housekeepers in respect 
of vegetables, is that they do not supply a sufficient variety, 
seeming to consider that the meat is the only part of the meal 
that requires care, and that all the rest is mere garnish beneath 
the notice of a Briton, and unfit to sustain his vigorous life. 
Yet that is not the experience of the observers of mankind. 
The attention of Herodotus was called to the fact that the 
Persians, the manliest and most sporting nation in the old 
world, had at meals not only several dishes, but several courses 
of vegetable food, preceding a very moderate allowance of 
solid meat.^ And Sir Henry Rawlinson describes the diet of 
this tough race as practically the same now, so that the 
assumptions of some anthropologists that hunting races are 
necessarily riotous eaters of flesh, and that camivoracity 

* Herodotus, CHo^ cxxxiii. 



32 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

strengthens a nation, are not accni^tc. The Persian gentleman 
is the spiritual father of the British squire ; * yet, at many a 
hospitable board, if a guest does not fancy meat that day, or 
has eaten enough of it at a previous meal, lie will have to fall 
back upon potatoes, or to solace himself by picking a few bits 
out of the sauces of made dishes, where the vegetable flavour 
has been saturated with that of meat and spoilt. Usually 
he goes on eating too much nitrogenous food out of sheer 
idleness. 

Another fault is that the vegetables are not suflBciently 
fresh. Unhappily dead plants do not stink early enough to 
disgust the nose ; but yet, every minute they are kept after 
their actual death, that is to say, after they have ceased to be 
capable of growth, renders them in some degree less digestible. 
Sometimes they are kept too long out of mere carelessness, 
sometimes from lack of sale, but sometimes also intentionally, 
to make them look better at table. For a long time, I could 
not make out why London asparagus so often disagreed witb 
people, till at last I caught a gardener cutting it twenty-four 
hours before it was wanted, and putting it in a damp warm 
frame, * to swell ' as he said. Cucumbers and broccoli are often 
spoilt in the same way. The vast wagons of cabbage that 
one sees coming into London at midnight are often the bearers 
of two or three days' cutting in small gardens, kept till a ftiU 
load is accumulated for a single journey — as early travellers 
by rail may see for themselves. Sprinkled with water they 
look well, but never regain their fresh character. They 
ferment in the stomach, and produce flatulence. 

Potatoes. — The virtues of a potato are to be mealy and 
powdery when boiled, and to mash readily into a smooth 
puree. This shows that the starch granules are in a healthy 
condition, and that they absorb water, and burst the envelopes 

* He taught his sons ' to shoot, to ride, to speak the truth,' and then 
ieft them to educate themselves; he was devoted to his sovereign to a degree 
that astonished Herodotus; and he loved a good glass of wine in good 
company. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 33 

of glntinons matter which the heat has coagulated. Young 
potatoes, from not so easily breaking up, require long mastica- 
tion to render them soluble, and are not then very digestible. 
But old waxy potatoes are worse, for they seem to unite again 
into a sticky mass, after being swallowed, and remain for 
hours undissolved ; the worst of all are potatoes affected by 
the peculiar epidemic called after their name. The diseased 
part, looking as if it were stained with a drop of ink, remains 
quite hard in spite of any amount of boiling and digesting : 
eating it is equivalent to eating so much rotten wood. 
Potatoes which have begun to sprout are also indigestible, 
and frosted potatoes begin to decay immediately a thaw sets 
in. The best potatoes are * Regents.' 

The Jerusalem. Artichoke is largely used in England by 
people who have gardens, partly because the plant is handsome, 
and partly because the root is not injured by frost, and so can 
be allowed to remain in the earth during winter. The dried 
stem is also convenient for firing. It is a watery vegetable, 
and though it had the start of the potato in European horti- 
culture, it has never been brought to the same perfection. 
The fact is it contains no starch, and the *inuline,' which 
replaces that valuable aliment, is only 2 per cent, of its weight, 
whereas in its successful rival there is a proportion of 16 per 
cent. It should be eaten only as an occasional change, for 
the sake of its flavour. 

Turnips may have nearly the same things said of them. 

Yams and sweet potatoes come now into the London market. 
They are as mealy and wholesome as the commoner tuber, 
and are sometimes useful to tempt our patients into the use 
of vegetable diet. 

Carrots contain a quantity of pectin, which can be ex- 
tracted from them in the form of a jelly, and is often used by 
confectioners to mix with fruit jelly as a diluent. It resides 
principally in the outer rind, whose thickness therefore in 
propor tion to the pale core is a test of the goodness of the 



34 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

specimen. When soft and friable they are much more nutri- 
tions than turnips. 

Parsnips may claim the same praise, and ought to be more 
used, especially with boiled fish. From their sweetness they 
make excellent fritters, and are liked by children, to whom 
they are well adapted. However, when old and stringy they 
should be avoided. 

Salsify is in England considered more a dish for the 
gourmet, than as a food for middle-class tables. This is unjust, 
for it is nutritious and digestible, and grows easily. It is best 
eaten alone, fried in a thin coat of batter. It should break 
readily, and be free from strings. 

Cold boiled salsify may be dished into a tasty salad with 
oU, tarragon vinegar, and some chopped herbs, such as chervil 
or cress, or that mixture of herbs cooks call * Ravigote.' To 
this can also be added with advantage an anchovy or two. 

At Lyons a soup made from salsify is very popular. 

Leelcs make a capital soup and a most digestible side-dish. 
The more white there is in them, and the less green, the softer 
and better they are. They should have but little smell. 

Sea-kale should be perfectly blanched. When coloured it 
is indigestible, as is shown by its being tasted in the mouth 
after dinner. 

Asparagus should be eaten as soon as possible after cutting, 
and then it is most wholesome. The greenest asparagus is 
that which contains the greatest amount of the active 
principles, bitter and resinous, and is therefore to be chosen 
in preference. I have known timid patients to fear that it 
must be injurious to the kidneys, because of the peculiar 
odour communicated by it to the urine. It certainly does no 
harm, and I doubt iE it is reaUy a diuretic. 

In early spring, the fresh young fronds of the male fern 
make a good imitation of early asparagus, and are decidedly 
better than the wild asparagus brought to table in the south 
of Europe. With other substitutes for it I have no acquaint- 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 35 

ance. The nmnber of tliein sliows how well worth having the 
real thing is. 

Odbhage is the most valuable anti-scorbTitic we possess. In 
the slight degree of scorbutus characterised by bleeding of 
the gums or by purpura, it is eminently successful, and pre- 
vents the same thing happening to other members of the 
household who are wise enough to prefer prevention to cure. 
It should be soft but crisp before cooking, and show no signs 
of having been wetted. The best sorts are the old white 
garden cabbage and the summer cauliflower. If it has begun 
to heat from incipient decay, it is most noxious, and gener- 
ates in the intestinal canal an enormous amount of flatus, 
consisting not only of the usual carbonic acid, but of 
sulphuretted hydrogen as well. Fermentation impairs the 
qualities of the cabbage, for sourer out is less efficacious 
than the fresh plant as an anti-scorbutic. This is pre- 
pared by taking advantage of fermentation as a means 
of after-preservation. The leaves of the kail are allowed to 
heat^ and then subjected to severe pressure, which arrests 
the chemical action, and hardens them into a dry mass 
which will keep a long time. It requires much soaking, 
and should not be cooked till free from all sour taste. It 
should not want chewing, or it is shown to be underdone. 

Cauliflower, slightly boiled, is very nice cold with Mayon- 
naise sauce. 

Winter greens are of so many sorts that it would be neces- 
sary to bo a complete gardener to give rules for the selection 
of each. Their greenness and freshness at a time when all 
around is brown and decaying is the attraction to them ; and 
it may be said generally, that therefore they ought to be as 
fresh and green as possible. Under this heading I include 
savdys and Brussels sprouts, but not broccoli, which should of 
course be as white as can be got. 

I take the opportunity of having to allude to hoTil-rabi (a 
new kind of cabbage of which the leaf -stalks are eaten), to 
say that it is not prudent to recommend to our patients novel 

D 2 



36 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

varieties of garden produce, nnless we are well acquainted 
with them ourselves. We do not know how to decide if they 
are good of their sort or not ; and much more depends upon 
that than upon the kind of vegetable. 

Cardoons, — Those who grow this delicious thistle, which is 
seldom brought to market, should take care that the leaf -stalks 
are at least an inch and a half thick before they are considered 
fit for cutting. 

The artichoJce is another thistle, like the last-named, of an 
ornamental character, and oftener cultivated in this country. 
Eaten raw, or only just warmed, as is common in France, it is 
as indigestible as nuts, which it much resembles ; but well 
boiled till it is quite soft, it may be eaten with impunity even 
by invalids. After an early dinner it makes a good dish for 
supper. However, sliced very thin, raw artichoke bottoms 
are a good ingredient in salad. 

Chestnuts are a very good substitute for potatoes with 
white meat or fowl. They should be thoroughly well boiled, 
skinned, and served up in a hot dry napkin. Home-grown 
chestnuts are the best, being more mealy and powdery than 
those imported. A sweet soup also may be made of chestnuts 
rubbed through a sieve ; but I cannot recommend the polenta, 
cake, and bread made of this nut, which are so popular in 
Italy. It requires a long education to accustom the digestion 
to them, but by natives they are highly commended. 

Vegetable mairow, squash, elector's cap, and a few other 
sorts of pumpkin, are wholesome diluents, but do not form a 
substantive diet. The same may be said of the tomato. Care 
should be taken that they are ripe, or they cause colic. 

Fea^ and hroad heans should be young, and their skins 
tender enough to crack in boiling. If they are past the time 
of life for this to happen, they should be chopped, mashed, or 
otherwise broken up ; for the unbroken skins are very leathery. 
The longer they are boiled, the harder they get. 

Dried peas, split peas, are deprived of their skins already ; 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 37 

so that if well boiled, as in soup or pndding, they are very 
good for food for robust people. 

It appears wasteful to throw away the outer shell of the 
pea. It contains a great deal of nutritious matter, but it is 
not nice in the commoner sorts. There have been lately 
introduced some new peas, the shell of which is edible, and 
seems wholesome. 

French heatis, from the kidney bean and scarlet runner, are 
still more required to be young and tender. 

White heans are the ripe seeds of the same plants. They 
are not popular in England, apparently because they do not 
blend well as an adjunct to meat. But eaten alone with a 
piquant sauce, they are a most palatable variety of dish, and 
certainly nutritious. 

Lentils, again, are too much neglected. They make a 
capital soup, resembling pea soup. The peculiar flavour of 
lentil flour, which is distasteful to some persons (reminding 
them of garden seeds they say), may be masked by adding to 
it some sugar and Indian com flour or fine barley meal. Or 
if it is wanted for soup, a few bits of celery or asparagus 
cover the objectionable taste completely. It is sold under the 
name of 'revalenta arabica' at a higher price considerably 
than is charged for it as lentil flour. 

Mushrooms are best when grown in an open meadow. 
When forced they are tough and indigestible, and when 
preserved they ai*e tasteless as well. A meadow mushroom 
should peel easily, and it should be of a clean pink colour 
inside, like a baby's hand, and have a frill or * curtain ' (as 
botanists call it) attached to the stalk. When the gills are 
brown they are growing old and dry, and losing their nutri- 
tive qualities. The above described Agaricus campestris is the 
queen of its class for cooking purposes in England. It is true 
there are several other similar agarici eatable, and eaten by 
experimentalists ; but my experience of them is that their 
flavour is inferior, and that we lose nothing by the safe rule of 
adhering to the one we know well by sight. 



38 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

The Gigcmtic Puffball makes excellent ketclmp, and can be 
eaten in the shape of fritters. It mnst bo large and very- 
white, like a great bleached sknll. When discoloured it is 
beginning to ripen its spores, and is then poisonous. 

The morelle, the fan-shaped cJianterelle, and the black 
truffle should be sweet and fresh. The o^our of the last-named 
when decomposed is so horrible that one can hardly fancy its 
being tolerated ; yet I have known a cook use truffles in this 
state, and say she thought it was the right smell. 

Materials for salad, — Here again, as in the case of winter 
greens, the plants used are so many and various that to enu- 
merate them would be as tedious as useless, and to describe 
their several tests of salubrity would require more horticul- 
tural knowledge than I possess. Repelled by the barbarous 
and barren aspect of a list of their technical names, I was 
comforted by the recollection of a scene of long ago. A party 
of young gentlemen and ladies were earnestly disputing about 
the nomenclature and specific differences of certain plants, and 
appealed to grandpapa, an elderly Parisian; he settled the 
matter in a moment — * JEh, mes cheres, ces sont du salade.' I 
shall imitate him in condensing them into a class. 

Vegetables intended for a salad must be fresh gathered, 
and not soaiked in water. The purity of the bowl and its con- 
tents is more important than that of Titania's bower. It 
ought to be dressed by one of the daughters of the house, 
after she has herself dressed for dinner, singing, if not with 
voice, with her clean cool fingers, sharp silver knife, and 
wooden spoon : 

Weaving spiders, come not here ; 

Hence, you long-legged spinners, hence : 
Beetles blaxik, approach not near ; 
Worm nor snail, do no offence. 

So will the guests eat it with light hearts, free from aU fears 
of noxious ingredients. 

With a little trouble, not however necessarily attended by 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 39 

expense, a succession may he provided of materials for a salad 
all the year ronnd, so as to have one at table every day. And 
a great preservative of health I believe it to be for hearty 
persons. The most difficult season to provide for is the latter 
end of the winter, and it may be of use to mention that the 
dandelion is then a friend in need. If a pot be placed over 
the plant as it grows, or the leaves tied up like lettuce, or it 
be transplanted into a frame, it can be bleached, and thus 
loses its bitterness. Daisy leaves are also eatable ; and thus 
with a sprig of tarragon, a few cold potatoes, red pickled cab- 
bage, and some ever-constant mustard and cress, giant cress, 
Australian or curled cress, a few olives pared thin, or some 
beet-root and a slice of Madeira onion, a great variety of com- 
binations may be made. 

Some persons are very fond of tomatoes sliced raw, and 
treated with oil and vinegar only. They appear to be quite 
digestible in this state, if ripe. 

Watercresses rather spoil a mixed salad, and are best eaten 
alone, so as to make a variety when nothing else can be ob- 
tained. And the same may be said of radishes, and of endive, 
which are too strong in flavour to combine well. Indeed an 
inventive lady, with a well-furnished cruet stand, a bottle of 
"Worcester sauce, and some moutarde de maille, might provide 
a different ' scratch ' salad every day of the year. I cannot 
agree with those who dogmatically pronounce the mle that 
this dish should be always as simple as possible and its dressing 
as compound as possible. Doubtless, if you wished to have 
the same daily, the order would not be a bad one. But hero, 
as always in cookery, variety has a charm otherwise unattain- 
able. Any intricate bouquet of leaves, all different, with the 
simplest addition of pepper, and salt, and vinegar, will often 
gain admiration from the same guest who the day before had 
delighted in a plain lettuce with a dressing, of which no one 
could guess (much less remember) the composition. 

The basis of salad dressing, and the principles on which it 
is made, are the same as Mayonnaise sauce (see recipes at end 



40 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

of Chapter III. of Part III.) An indefinite variation in the 
quantities of ingredients may be made, but the principle is the 
same of emulsioning the oil to make it combine well with 
other fiavouring substances. The addition of a little white 
light wine is a considerable improvement to salad dressing. 

Celery and cucumher raw are not suitable for eating after a 
heavy meal. The quantity of woody fibre in them adds an 
additional load to the stomach, at a time when all its powers 
are required. With bread and cheese, as a light lunch, they 
give an agreeable zest, and seem to stimulate the secretion of 
gastric juice. That is the time for their admirers, and they 
are many, to enjoy them. 

The selection of mere flavouring herbs, such as onions, 
garlic, mint, tarragon, &c., is not a matter for the dietician to 
discuss. He may, however, say one word in favour of tem- 
perance in their employment. An excess makes us unpleasant 
to our neighbours; and disguising the true flavour of the 
meat, it leads to our putting up with an inferior article. The 
object to be aimed at in their use is to promote the secretion 
of digestive solvents; and the degree in which they attain 
this object may be judged by the watering of the mouth ; a 
whiff of them excites the flow of saliva, a copious dose runs 
it dry. 

Kitchen garden produce, or greengrocery, classed accord- 
ing to the main objects which its use serves, may be divided as 
follows, the order adopted in each class being a rough estimate 
of the plant's value as an esculent. 

1. Starchy and siigary plants. — Potatoes, yams, chestnuts, 
beans, lentils, peas, Jerusalem artichokes, carrots, parsnips, 
beetroot, salsify, turnips. 

2. Stimulants, — Asparagus, artichokes, onions, garlic, 
aromatic herbs, mustard, cress, and a few other pungent salad 
materials. 

3. AntUscorhutics. — Cabbages, tomatoes, and salad materials 
in general. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 41 

4. Diluents, — Cabbages, spinach, tumip-tops, winter 
greens, broccoli, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, sorrel, nettle- 
tops, and in short any plants sufficiently palatable to eat and 
soft to swallow. 

The use of the first class is obvious from the powers 
assigned to starch and sugar by the investigations quoted in 
the last chapter. Each of these sweet amylaceous articles is 
a direct food contributing to the force of the body in health. 
How under certain circumstances some, or all, become unsuit- 
able, will be spoken of in a future part of the volume. 

The effect of stimulating vegetables is to cause an increased 
secretion of saliva and gastric juice, thus enabling a greater 
quantity of food to be dissolved. 

Antiscorbutics y the third class in our list, seem to act by 
contributing some of the materials of the blood of lesser 
amount, though of importance to the general vigour of the 
constitution. I feel sure that the infertility, pallor, fetid 
breath, and bad teeth which distinguish some of our town 
populations, is to a great extent due to their inability to get 
these articles of the table fresh. The watercress seller is one 
of the saviours of her country. The consumption of lettuce 
with his tea is an increasing habit worthy of all encourage- 
ment in the working man. 

But the said working man must be warned of the import- 
ance of washing the material of his meal. This hint is given 
in view of the frequency of the occurrence of the large * round 
worm ' (^Ascaris lumhricoides) in the labouring population of 
some agriculttfral counties, such as Oxfordshire for example, 
where unwashed lettuce is largely eaten. Naturalists will not 
allow us to think that the creature is a lob-worm, altered by 
his birth in an abnormal habitat. But at all events his ova 
will live for years in moist earth, ^ and may easily be brought 
in from the garden, which has been manured from all sources. 
Let this source of danger be removed by cleanliness. 

' JDavaine, quoted in Keynolds* Si/stem of Medicine, vol. iii. p. 194. 



42 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Diluents contain a large proportion of woody fibre and 
chlorophyll, which are little, if at all, solable in the secretion's 
of the stomach, and are not converted into sugar by the saliva, 
as starch is. And they are not liable to be removed by absorp- 
tion like water, the most universal diluent. Their use would 
appear to be to get mixed up with the nitrogenous articles of 
food, so that the mass may be permeated by the gastric juice 
and presented gradually to the absorbents. Like gelatine, 
though apparently not nutritious themselves, they make other 
things nutritious. Their benefit is manifested by the im- 
proved action of the bowels after their employment. 

§ 5. Fruit. 

Fruit is hardly ever eaten except because it is nice. A very 
good reason, no doubt, but one that rather removes the con- 
sideration of the subject from the scope of the dietician. 

The safest time for taking fruit is in the morning or after- 
noon with stale bread and a draught of water. Thus may be 
made a very wholesome and digestible lunch. The worst time 
is after a heavy dinner. Adults often complain that they 
cannot enjoy fruit as their girls and boys do ; the fact is they 
eat it at a wrong hour of the day. 

Grapes, figs, peaches, cherries, oranges, and strawberries 
may be considered to be the most digestible ; plums, apples, 
pears, and apricots are less* so ; while melons, and other cold, 
watery things, are not only indigestible themselves, but 
prevent digestion. 

In selecting oranges, especially for our patients, it is best 
to take those with the green calyx still adhering to them; 
they are the juiciest and ripest. The fewer pips, the better the 
orange, or lemon, or grape. 

Nuts and almonds have not justice done them by nature. 
They contain an enormous proportion of a valuable nitrogenous 
aliment, which in the latter exceeds half its weight, and is called 
' emulsin,' from its diffusibility without solution in water ; 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 43 

yet this is so cut off by its natural concentration and hardness 
from the action of the gastric juice, that it is scarcely digested 
at all, unless chewed and cooked much more than usual. 
When chosen for food, they should be used in extreme modera- 
tion, and at a time when the stomach is at leisure, and can 
devote all its powers to their solution. When pounded and 
employed as a flavouring, they are innocent enough. Frying 
them with butter, salt, and pepper makes a tasty and whole- 
some hot dish for dessert ; for, being brittle, the mass breaks 
up easily into small pieces between the teeth. 

Cookery, breaking up the texture of all fruit, makes it 
much more easy of digestion. 

§ 6. Groceries and Chandlery. 

Recent legislation about adulteration has been directed more 
against the grocer than against any other of our purveyors. 
The stores he sells have all gone through a process of manu- 
facture, which alters their natural aspect, and therefore gives 
great facility to fraud. The fraud consists in mixing a 
cheaper substance with a more expensive, and disguising the 
mixture. The disguise may be deleterious to health, or it may 
not, or it may even make the compound more wholesome, but 
the fraud is the same. In these pages, however, we have to 
do only with fchose adulterations which render the goods less 
fit for consumption as food. 

The line will be taken of shortly pointing out the charac- 
teristics of the best articles, without attempting to enumerate 
the sophistications to which they might possibly be subjected, 
but against which the possession of good characteristics 
practically warrants them. To detect the special method by 
which bad groceries are made bad, requires the detector to 
be as acute as the vogue he is trying to expose ; and unless he 
makes that his sole ambition in life, he is not likely to succeed. 
Money-making is a much stronger stimulus to invention than 
the love of truth. If a customer suspects adulteration, he 



44 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

will act wisely to place the matter in the hands of the legally 
established analyst of his district, the expense of the proceed- 
ing being now made very moderate.^ 

Tea,^ — The uses of tea are — 

1st. To give an agreeable flavour to warm water required 
as a drink. 

2nd. To soofche the nervous system when it is in an 
uncomfortable state from hunger, fatigue, or mental excite- 
ment. 

The best tea, therefore, is that which is pleasantest to the 
taste of the educated customer, and which contains most of 
the characteristic sedative principles. The sedative principles 
in the leaf consists of an essential oil — ^which may be smelt 
strongest in the finest teas, weakest in the inferior sorts, 
entirely absent in fictitious teas — and of the alkaloid tkeine, 
which may be demonstrated by heating some tea dry in a 
silver pot, when the salt will appear as a white bloom on the 
metal. If there is any bouquet at all, or any theine at all, in 
the specimen examined, it is worth something. 

The shortest way to test the comparative value of different 
specimens is to put a tea-spoonful of each in one of the little 
China tea-pots or cups with covers, here used as ornaments, 
but originally intended for this very purpose, which has been 
previously made quite hot. Shake the tea about in the hot 
pot a few seconds, and then pour on, quite boiling, a small half 

' Not less than 25. 6d., and not more than lOs. 6d. , 

' I take the opportunity of the first mention of a purely foreign product 
to say that the most interesting way of enlarging our ideas on the subject of 
food production is to spend an afternoon now and then at a classified col- 
lection of living economic plants, such, for instance, as that at the Botanical 
Gardens, Regent's Park. It is much pleasanter to think of tea as connected 
with the pretty little camellia it comes from, than with blue paper packets ; 
and the despised * grounds * will for ever after acquire an interest in our 
minds. Who would have expected pepper, and ginger, and rice, and sugar, 
to look as they do when growing ? No consumption of midnight oil over 
botanical books gives so much real knowledge as this short hour of healthy 
observation. 



TttE CHOICE OF FOOD. 45 

cnp of water on each. Cover them up quickly, and let them 
stand by the fire about a minute. Taste them immediately 
without milk or sugar, and choose that which has most aroma. 

On examination of the contents of the pot after use, there 
will be found in good specimens very little of the dust or 
broken leaves. The said dust, in fact, consists of the sweep- 
ings of the warehouses which the Chinese manufacturers make 
up with rice starch into pellets, BJ\fi. use to adulterate the real 
article, under the name of * Lie tea,' which expresses its 
character very well. The hot water dissolves it again into 
genuine dirt. 

As tea is made from more than one variety of plant, and 
from, leaves at different periods of maturity, the shape and 
other characteristics of the foliage are not very distinctive ; 
but I think, as a general rule, that, after infusion, the best 
leaves are the thickest and pulpiest in texture. 

Green tea normally contains much more of the essential 
oil than black ; but then its higher price offers a great tempta- 
tion to frauds, and if it is used, more care is needed in its 
selection. 

Cheap black tea sometimes owes its cheapness to the 
admixture of leaves damaged by damp, or which have been 
actually used and redried. This is easily detected by the 
scent, but as there still remains a quantity of tannin and 
colouring matter, people will use it, and think they have got 
an article worth the price it is sold at. However, good hay, 
or a bunch of wild thyme, or mint would really afford a 
pleasanter and wholesomer drink. The dried colouring matter 
is quite insoluble, and the tannin makes the aliment with which 
it comes in contact insoluble, and indigestible also. 

The chemicals used to put a ' face,' or agreeable aspect, on 
bad tea are not poisonous, being simply so much inert dirt. 
They consist of indigo, Prussian blue, whitewash, plaster of 
Paris, heavy spar, and the like ; new things being substituted as 
the old ones get found out. Their presence, however, shows that 
the tea is more or less bad, or it would not have been faced. 



46 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

If your * strong black ' tea tastes of ink, examine it with a 
magnet, to see if it contains iron, added to cheat yon in the 
weight. 

The finest teas colonr the water the least. The finest of 
all in Enrope, the yellow tea which comes overland throngh 
Kussia, and obtainable at Frankfort, commnnicates only a 
slight tinge to the infusion. These luxuries are best enjoyed 
with a slice of lemon in liet^of milk, and very little sugar. 

In using tea, it must be remembered that the small-leaved 
and fine-grained tea packs much closer than the coarse, that 
consequently nearly double the quantity may be contained in 
a spoonful, and therefore fewer spoonfuls are required. 

Coffee contains more of its special exhilarating alkaloid 
(cafieine) than tea, but somewhat less essential oil. It should 
not be kept at the boiling point, or it loses this virtue. • 

The surest way to have genuine cofiee is to purchase it in 
the bean, with the aromatic scent (which shows that it has 
been recently roasted) stiU in it, and grind it yourself. It is 
easy to add chicory if you think it improves the flavour, but 
as that root contains no alkaloid, the beverage is weaker in 
quality. This is desirable under certain circumstances, to 
be discussed in the second and third part of the volume. A 
further security is to buy the beans raw, and roast them at 
home over charcoal; the trouble is repaid by the delicious 
incense, which alone among the operations of cookery, it 
diffuses through the house. 

If you have an opportunity of getting it direct from the 
importer, you will find the best coffee is that from Guatemala. 
Ifc is probably re-christened ' Mocha ' in the shops. The 
smallest and roundest beans are the best^ The long oval 
bean from the West Indies ought to be a good deal cheaper. 

Cocoa and Chocolate, — * Cocoa nibs ' is the most eligible 
form in which the plant can be used as a mere beverage, like 
tea or coffee. They are the seeds merely broken up by rough 
grinding. But much of the nutriment is wasted in the thick 
grounds; so that if what is wanted is a supporting food^ 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 47 

either these must be well stirred up in the draught, or the 
extract of the seeds, ' chocolate,' must be used. This contains 
a large quantity of fatty matter, and may be made a meal of. 

Chocolate is an article so disguised in the manufacture 
that it is impossible to tell its purity or value. Indeed the 
makers say it is improved by adulteration, and cannot be sold 
without. The only safeguard is to buy that which bears the 
name of a reputable maker. 

Sugar. — The baser sort, ' moist brown,' always contains 
dirt, sand, and mites. If it is dissolved in warm water, the 
heavy dirt falls to the bottom, and the mites float on the sur- 
face, affording an interesting object for the microscope. 
Grocers get from handling it jpsoriasis jpalmarum, or * grocer's 
it<;h,' so it can hardly be a desirable condiment to eat raw. 
Besides this, a clerical friend of mine was informed by a large 
and religious grocer in a manufacturing town, that he found 
it impossible to compete in price with his rivals, without 
adulterating intentionally the whole of his brown sugar. And 
he stated (not under the seal of confession) that one of the 
materials used for colouring was a mineral of a deleterious 
nature, but he declined to name it, as, seemingly, in this in- 
stance cunning has advanced ahead of detection. 

The obvious moral is always to use loaf sugar or sugar 
candy, the sophistication of which does not answer. 

Treacle is the waste which drains off from the moulds in 
which sugar is refined. It contains a considerable quantity 
of dirt, acids, extractive matter of doubtful quality, and salts, 
so that it sometimes acts as a purgative. * Golden drop ' is 
prepared by filtering this stuff through charcoal ; it should be 
clear and light in colour, and is then a wholesome article. 

Grape sugar is used in England only to adulterate that 
from the cane ; its sale might with propriety be prohibited. 
But, in Portugal, grape juice is boiled down with quinces into 
a sort of jam, the etymological ancestor of all the marmalades 
— whose name is derived from * mamielo,^ the Portuguese for a 
quince. Let not the reader be beguiled by a poetical respect 



48 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

for grapes or quinces into eating it. My specimen was a 
present direct from a country estate in the south, and tasted 
like gritty molasses and onions. The giver informed me it 
was very wholesome, but used only by servants and farm- 
labourers. 

Baisiiis, Sultanas ^ Currants , FtgSy and Dates, are the dried 
fruits preserved by their own uncrystallizable sugar. The wittf- 
catel raisins are the best, and are prepared by allowing the 
grape to dry on the vine ; the inference from which is that 
expedients used to hasten the process are inexpedient. The 
best evidence of the goodness of these articles is their plump- 
ness and softness, combined with the absence of mites, as 
tested by infusion in water, in the mode recommended for 
brown sugar. Mites are not known to be poisonous, but they 
destroy the saccharine constituents, and it is for their saccharine 
constituents that we employ these dried fruits, both cooked 
and uncooked. It may be remarked, also, that the skins are 
very insoluble, those of all sorts of the grape containing a 
large quantity of white wax, which in fact waterproofs the 
texture, and prevents its penetration by aqueous fluid ; so 
they should always be split before using in the kitchen. Cakes 
made of unsplit currants are especially to be avoided, as they 
are apt to produce pain and purgative effects in the most healthy. 
Bdce should be as whole and unbroken, and as free from 
dust and dirt as possible. The presence of weevils in it con- 
stitutes a decidedly damaged article, which ought to be re- 
turned. In the future pages when rice is spoken of in con- 
nection with puddings, the Carolina is intended ; for curries, 
or as a vegetable with meat, the Patna is used, since it best 
retains its form when steamed. Patna rice is also the most 
eligible thing to eat with jam, or rhubarb, or roast apples, &c., 
for it has the least laxative action of all cereals, and thus 
counteracts the inconvenient tendency in that direction of the 
sweet parts of the dish. 

The preparations o^ wheat ordinarily sold by grocers, such 
as Semolina^ made from hard wheat rich in gluten, Macaron\ 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 49 

Italian paste. Vermicelli, made of flour from whence the 
starch has been partially removed, are more nutritiotis than 
the flours of the corn-dealers, bat at the same time are less 
digestible from their extreme dryness. They are not suitable to 
be used as vegetable dishes, for they are too nitrogenous for 
the purpose. But if boiled till quite soft, they form a sub- 
stantial meal. The worst sort of macaroni is that stamped in 
the form of letters, for if it be sufficiently boiled, the shape of 
the letters is lost, and cooks do not like that. 

These preparations are apt to get 'weevilly,' a state of 
things usually to be detected by the smell. 

Vitiega/r, — The best vinegar is that made from the acidified 
white wines of the Loire and Charente. British malt vinegar 
is deficient in the oenanthic ether which gives a bouquet to 
the more elegant article, is more apt to become mouldy and to 
breed worms, and is more often adulterated. As to distilled 
wood vinegar, although its fundamental composition is iden- 
tical with that of wine vinegar, yet it has not such a pleasant 
taste or smell as the latter, for the destructive distillation of 
the wood gives rise to some empyreumatic products of doubt- 
ful wholesomeness, of which traces always are to be found. 

There seems nothing gained by scenting and flavouring 
vinegars. It prevents their being analyzed, and thus excites, 
perhaps unmerited, suspicion. They smell like lotion, which 
is unpleasant at dinner. 

Vinegar owes its acidity to the acetic acid, which consti- 
tutes about a twentieth of its weight in French vinegar of 
good quality, and in British ^ froof^ vinegar 4*6 per cent, of 
anhydrous acid. As to other substances contained in the 
solution, tartrate and sulphate of potash, tannin, and cenanthic 
ether appear to improve the flavour without in any way 
afiecting the health of the consumer. But it is not so with 
sulphuric acid, with which bad vinegar is adulterated. Sul- 
phuric acid — especially if cheap, impure oil of vitriol be em- 
ployed — cannot be considered harmless if used in the daily 
food in the preparation of cabbage, or pickles, or salad, or 

E 



cO GENERAL DIETETICS. 

made-dishes. The more it is cooked the more concentrated 
it becomes, for the acetic acid is driven off by the heat, while 
the mineral remains. The least injury it can do is to corrode 
the teeth, when present in excess. 

Yet to avoid sulphuric acid entirely is not possible, unless 
you make your own vinegar; and this is really worth the 
trouble if your consumption is large. For the law allows the 
manufacturer to introduce sulphuric acid to the extent of one 
part in a thousand (in France one gramme to one litre), and 
the article cannot be called adulterated if this amount is not 
exceeded. The test reconmiended by the College of Physicians 
for insuring the goodness of British vinegar is a solution of 1 
part of chloride of barium in 8 parts of water : of this 10 
minims will precipitate all the sulphuric acid in an ounce of 
lawful vinegar. If after this has settled down the test solu- 
tion still continues to form a cloud, the article should not be 
employed in the preparation of food. 

Besides sulphuric acid, cheap dirty vinegar sometimes con- 
tains lead and other metals. This contamination is provided 
against in the pharmacopceia, by ordering the test of sulphur- 
etted hydrogen to be used. 

Is it worth while to test or get tested such a mere condi- 
ment as vinegar ? I think so, for it is really a most useful 
adjunct to the dietary. It possesses the property of softening 
and finally dissolving muscular fibre, as you may see by 
watching its action on a fragment under the microscope. And 
in virtue of this solvent action it is wisely taken with those 
meats whose fibres are hard, and from their hardness insipid, 
such, for example, as boiled beef, fresh pork, brawn, salmon, 
ttmny, sturgeon, eels, lobsters, &c. The resolution also of 
the albumen in hard-boiled eggs is assisted by vinegar. Acids 
favour the conversion of cellulose into sugar, which is the 
first stage of the digestion of the materials for salad — of 
cabbages and other green leaves — and their employment in 
this class of dishes is strictly physiological. On the other hand, 
to put vinegar on beans is, in the strong language of M. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 51 

CjT, * detestahle,^ ^ for it renders insoluble the legnmine, 
which is the most nutritions part of them, constituting, in fact, 
from a quarter to a third of their substance.' Cold boiled 
beans are sometimes made into a salad, and it is quite true, as 
M. Cyr says, that the addition of vinegar destroys the flavour, 
and, probably enough, makes it indigestible. Oil, pepper, 
mustard, and a little white wine make the best dressing. 
Beans are a favourite food for persons practising disciplinary 
abstinence, and the hint may be of use to them, though not 
appreciated by the unrestricted world. 

Oil, — ^M. Cyr places olive oil as the highest in order of 
digestibility of all fatty f oods,^ even above fresh butter. But 
to merit that praise it must be thoroughly good, quite clear 
and transparent, and free from rancid smell. The paler it is 
the better. The white deposit sometimes seen is vegetable 
albumen, which ought to have been refined out, as it prevents 
the oil from keeping sweet. Lucca oil, which is the best, has 
a peculiar agreeable odour, technically called * nutty.' Olives 
gathered young and small are called ' French olives,' and iu 
this condition are the sort most adapted, by their pleasant 
piquancy, for eating as a relish. But to use in cookery they 
are indigestible and tasteless, and inferior to the fruit gathered 
at a later period of growth, when soft and pulpy, with inci- 
pient oiliness, and called ' Spanish olives.' These last, also, 
are best for salads. In Portugal they refuse to gather them 
till they are just beginning to turn purple, and then they are 
bitter and not so digestible ; but I am informed by a Portuguese 
country gentleman that they might be just as good as the 
highest priced French fruit, if the farmers could be persuaded 
to advance upon the traditions of their grandfathers.^ 

* Cyp, T^aiti de VAlimentation^ p. 143. 

' In horse-beans 30*8 per cent., in Windsor beans 29-05 per cent., in 
haricots blancs 25*5 per cent. — Fayen, 

* Traitl de VAlmentation^ p. 122. 

* I take this opportunity of alluding to the trade custom of designating 
peculiar qualities or kinds of food by local names. No fraud is intended, 

E 2 



52 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

Caviare should be soft, pale in colour, and exhibiting the 
ova of the roe quite distinct. When old, and black, and 
homogeneous in texture, it is out of season and rancid, and 
arrests digestion. Tt is wise never to eat it when you see it 
served carelessly with cold, withy toast. It should be kept 
hot on a toasted-cheese dish. 

Pickles. — Grocers appear to consider that the final use of 
pickles is to ornament shops : so they choose them for the 
brilliancy of their colours and the elegance of the arrangement 
of their contrasted forms in the bottle. The consequence is 
that all sorts of expedients, some of them highly deleterious, 
are used by manufacturers to enhance ' the fatal gift of beauty.' 
In twelve samples of pickles taken indiscriminately and exa- 
mined in behalf of the State Board of Health of Massachusetts 
by Mr. Hill, last year, ten were found to contain copper by the 
simple process of dipping in them a steel knitting-needle, 
which in a few hours becomes coated with the metal. Nine 
of the samples were also examined for alumina, and found to 
contain it, showing that alum had been used, probably to 
intensify the lake tints. (Fourth Annual Report, Boston, 1873.) 

Bla^^h pepper in powder is another article which the con- 
scientious grocer lately mentioned declared he could not sell 
at a profit without increasing its bulk by artificial means. It 
does not, however, appear that any of the dirt introduced is 
to the knowledge of the adulterators deleterious to health. 
The simple safeguard is to buy the pepper in com. 

and any legislation which would make the transaction a fraud would be 
unjust. The words * Spanish * and * French* do not mean that the olives come 
from Spain or France, but that they are of the sort made in those countries. 
A large quantity of ' Ostend rabbits ' used to come to the London market 
from near Marseilles, but an importer told me they were bred, fed, killed, 
and skinned like * Ostend rabbits,' and therefore to all intents and purposes 
* Ostend rabbits.* So a wine-merchant that sells his prime claret as * Cha- 
teau Margaux * is committing no fraud if his wine is as good as Chateau 
Margaux, though it might be proved to have never seen that famous ^-ine- 
yard. Furriers are in the habit of calling tabbj- cats' skins 'Japanese 
lynx/ and the best ' plovers' eggs ' are usually laid by gulls on the east 
coast : in neither case is there any intention to deceive. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 53 

Eed jpepper, if pure, may be entirely suspended when rubbed 
in warm water. Any red deposit whicli falls is usually red 
lead. 

Mustard is adulterated by the grinders with flour and 
turmeric, which are not injurious to health, so that the verifi- 
cation of the drug becomes a question for the economist, not 
for the dietician. 

Spices in general should not be purchased ground ; and 
it is a prudent proceeding for members of our profession to 
take the opportunity offered them by the liberality of the 
Society of Apothecaries and lay in, at the wholesale market 
price, a stock of the purest and best spices. They have thus 
test articles, which they can compare with those furnished in 
' our village,' It will sometimes be found that the latter, even 
with the grocer's profit on them, are sold cheapest ; and then 
of course they must be adulterated or damaged goods. 

Bacon and Ham, when properly prepared and not rusty, 
give us a fat much more digestible, and therefore more nutri- 
tious, than that of fresh pork. The process of salting, and still 
more that of slowly drying or smoking, removes a great 
quantity of the water and coagulates the serum, which tends 
to make the adipose matter readily run into rancidity. What 
we have to do in selection is to see that the removal of water 
is carried as far as possible, and this is accomplished by 
observing the loss of weight in cooking. Primest bacon, 
according to Dr. Letheby, should not lose much above a tenth 
in boiling, and ham wastes much less. 

Sausages, — After the descriptions of their manufacture sent 
to journals by special correspondents, it may be presumed no 
one eats sausages without some acquaintaince with the person 
who has prepared them. There is, or was, in Oxford a large 
open window through which I could see during my morning 
studies a stalwart maiden, with her arms glowing from 
frequent immersion in cold water, chopping and stuffing these 
savoury viands ; and I have a lively recollection of the plea- 
sure with which I welcomed them afterwards on the bue^k.- 



54 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

fast table. I have often thonght since of tlie scene when 
hearing the chopping-machine going in cellars and back 
premises in London, and have wondered that some honest 
maker has not taken the conrse of giving confidence by 
exhibiting such a pretty sight as that which relished the 
Oxonian * nibs.* 

§ 7. Dairy Produce. 

Milk, — To people who do not keep their own cows the 
purchase of milk is a matter of extreme importance, so much 
of it is used in every well-managed family, and so sensitive 
to noxious influences are the junior branches, which are its 
assiduous consumers. But it must be confessed that to the 
exclusion of the noidous influences liable to be conveyed in 
milk science affords very little help. There are machines for 
taking the specific gravity, of which the most convenient is 
the hydrometer, sold by surgical-instrument makers as an 
urinometer. And there are machines for measuring the 
quantity of cream, of which that generally used is the lacto- 
meter, devised by Sir Joseph Banks, a tall test-tube, in which 
the cream rises to the top, and is simply measured.^ And for 
more accurate estimation we have Yogel's galactoscope, in 
which instrument the quantity of cream is calculated by the 
degree of opacity of the fluid, by the thickness of a layer of 
milk necessary to obscure the light of a candle. By this we 
may guess whether our milkman has put much or little water 
into the can, whether he has intentionally cheated us by 
selling the produce of the pump as that of the dairy ; but that 
has not much, if any, influence on the appropriateness of the 
milk for food. If less strongly nutritious, diluted milk is 
quite as wholesome as undiluted, and more easily digestible. 
The cases which call for the use of such measures of commer- 
cial value are those of public institutions, where it is our 

' Is it too late to revise the barbarous title of this instnunent, and call 
it (say) the * Cream-reckoner * ? 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 55 

bnsmess to make sure that the poor persons towards whom we 
occupy a paternal position are not defi^anded of the limited 
nutriment supplied to them. If the milk comes from starved 
animals or from the pump, they ought to have more of it in 
just proportion. 

The real poisons, whose possible presence throws a dark 
shadow over the enjoyment of this delicious drink, are quite 
independent of its richness, or the reverse. They are those 
arising from an unhealthy condition in the cow, or in the 
human dwellers in the dairy, or from gross carelessness in 
keeping its produce. After calving the udder yields a 
thickish yellow fluid, called * Colostrum,' somewhat stringy, 
and greasier than ordinary milk, slightly reddening litmus 
paper ; and till this has ceased to be secreted, whether the 
period is a day or two or as many weeks, the milk has a pur- 
gative action when raw, and even when boiled and made into 
a pudding, as is the custom of some parts, is of doubtful 
wholesomeness. Colostrum is apt to coagulate the milk like 
rennet. An admixture of it in the dairy produce may be 
detected by skilful microscopic examination, which shows the 
presence of its peculiar corpuscles. The best way to exhibit 
them is to mix some water with the colostrum, let it stand a 
few days till the cream has risen entirely, and then collect the 
sediment from the bottom of the test-tube, which will be found 
to consist entirely of them. Their measurement, according to 
Mandl, is about "^^^(^ of an inch in diameter.^ 

Of more serious importance is the presence of inflammatory 
or febrile disease in the cow. It is known by the appearance 
of blood or pus in the milk, but more readily by the sickening 
odour which exhales from it. If this is accidentally swallowed 
it disagrees strongly with the stomach, and if the disease is 
infectious it may very probably be communicated in this way. 

A still more likely way for disease to be induced by 
TTiilTr is through its contamination during its transit from the 

^ Dr. J. Pavy, in Med. Chir. Transactiont, xxviii. 82. 



56 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

cow to the customer. Where inmates of the farm have been 
affected by typhoid fever the infection has been carried to the 
families in the distant town supplied from that quarter. It 
is just possible that the germs of the malady may have settled 
in the milk from the air, but a more probable supposition is 
that the subsoil water, and so the wells, had become contami- 
nated with the morbid secretions, and had been used in wash- 
ing the milker's hands, the pails, and pans of the dairy. In 
a recent notorious case occurring in London in 1873 this 
seems to have been fairly proved to be the path of the invasion 
of typhoid; but it would not have been proved had not 
Dr. Murchison taken up the investigation with extraordinary 
energy and perseverance. This danger is unhappily not 
capable of being warded off by science. The fatal substance 
which brings typhoid fever into our bodies cannot be distin- 
guished from other organic matters, nor can its existence be 
made evident by any chemical or microscopic observation. By 
its works alone, and too late, do we know it. The only 
possible protection lies in the scrupulous observation of dairy 
farms by sanitary inspectors, to report any communication 
between the drains and wells, and instantly to warn the 
customers if the farmers refuse to stop the sale of dangerous 
milk. It would be a good plan for the customers of any one 
establishment to appoint their own inspector. 

The evidence of the transmission of scarlatina by milk is 
not so conclusive as in the case of typhoid. 

There are no other impurities injurious to health known 
to exist in the milk of our shops : caramel, brown sugar, salt, 
and carbonate of soda (all harmless) have been detected,^ bat 
not the chalk, starch, brains, or other substances sometimes 
asserted to be employed as adulterants. 

Milk is rendered unwholesome in the customer's own house 
by the vessels in which it is received not having been properly 
scoured out with soda. On stale milk, even in minute 

" Fourth Annual Eeport of the State Board of Health, Massachusetts, 
1873, p. 295. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 57 

qaantities, there very quickly germinates a bine monld, sncli 
as is seen often on cream cheese, and called Didium lactis. 
The mixture of this, adhering to the comers of the can, on 
the addition of fresh milk, causes it to turn sour and to give 
rise to colic and diarrhoea, and possibly also to * thrush ' in 
children, for the crust which forms in the mouth is a not dis- 
similar form of mould. 

The purity of the milk supply is a matter of extreme 
importance, and fitly forms the subject of legislative interfer- 
ence, provided always that the legislative interference be 
judicious, and does not impede improvement by competition.^ 
It is a subject of pre-eminent importance to the healthy above 
all others. I always feel indignant when I see advertised 
special milk, in sealed cans or otherwise, * for the nursery or 
for invalids.' As if the health of the sick and weakly were 
more important than that of the strong man, on whose arm 
those sick and weakly depend for existence ! Let us keep our 
strong men well, and we shall have fewer invalids to attend to. 
In choosing between two shops I should always prefer the one 
that did not advertise a special article. 

Cream when good is thick and yellow. 

Buttermilk is one of the most wholesome summer drinks 
possible. It is equally refreshing and nutritious, and to see 
it given to pigs instead of being distributed to the neighbours 
makes the philanthropist's heart bleed. 

Whey from which the curd has been removed for the pur- 
pose of making cheese is apt to be somewhat sour, from the 
rennet by which coagulation has been efiected. But even 
then it is a pleasant summer drink, and is certainly very 
digestible, and rapidly absorbed, for it is in composition more 
like serum sanguinis than anything else. A grate of nutmeg 

' Of such injudicious sort would be, for example, the fixing an absolute 
standard of cream contents. The standard must be low, or much genuine 
milk -would be condemned ; and then when any dealer got milk richer than 
the standard he would water it down to the mark, and thus the pump would 
be more active than ever. 



58 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

makes it very palatable. In Switzerland it is often drunk as 
a diet drink, and the inhabitants have snch a high opinion of 
its wholesomeness that they have founded establishments for 
the special purpose of receiving patients for the cure of all 
sorts of diseases by its means. This * Molken-Kur,' as it is 
called, does not however seem to suit English constitutions, 
unless starvation is required to be the principle of treatment, 
as is rarely the case. 

Junkets and Curds are nutritious nitrogenous foods, but 
they require the stomach to be educated by use for them to 
be well borne in any valid quantity. Milton's mention of 
* the junkets ' seems to imply that they were formerly more of 
an ordinary diet in farm-houses than nowadays, when they 
are seldom heard of out of Devonshire. 

Condensed or * Surlss ' milk is a device for avoiding the 
risk of deterioration by shaking. Six- tenths of the water is 
dried out of it, and sugar is added as a preservative. It cer- 
tainly is digestible, as is shown by the fact of infants brought 
up by hand upon it growing fat, and apparently strong, a 
fact of which most of us have ocular proof. Great care 
should be taken that only the softest water is used for its 
solution, and precautions taken against its adulteration. As 
it is a recent invention it is pure enough at present, but 
extensive use will probably teach ingenious methods of so- 
phistication. 

Clotted cream is simply cream raised by heat, so that a 
little albumen is partially coagulated along with it. Accuracy 
is necessary to secure the right temperature, yet the union of 
. the ofl&ces of cook and dairy-maid which it entails does not 
ensure accuracy. If the mistress of the household will make 
it a few times with her own hands she will find no difficulty 
in producing a digestible article by observing the following 
precautions, and for very shame her example will be imitated. 
Let her take a well-scoured stout saucepan (a broad copper 
one is best) and put a teacupful of quite cold water in it, then 
pour in the whole milk, and heat it over a very slow fire 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 59 

(cliarcoal is best) till the cream rises ; when it does so, take 
care not to increase the heat, but keep it up. It should never 
exceed that -which the finger can easily bear (about 160**). 
As the clot rises, divide it down the middle with the finger, 
and turn it back on itself. Keep doing this till there is no 
more formed. A hain-mane and a thermometer are a refine- 
ment upon this method. 

Buttery like milk, is adulterated with an excess of water, 
which may be detected by boiling ; the oily matter floats, and 
the water underlies it. But neither in that nor in any other 
detected falsification is there any source of danger to health. 
Even when rancid and damaged butter is got up again in 
order for the market, the processes are such as to make it fit 
for food, though not so nice as when naturally sweet. The 
palate is a good guide ; but sometimes in autumn and winter, 
when the grass is scanty, the butter will be flavoured with the 
dead leaves or turnips which stingy farmers will let their 
cattle eat, and we must not condemn the article as unwhole- 
some because it is nasty at these times. 

Gheese. 

Classification of Cheeses Usually in the Market. 

Cream cheeses . . . . • "S -w-r , a r 

LNeucnatel. 



Cheeses made of whole milk rich in cream 



Cheeses made of poor or partially skimmed 
milk 



Stilton, 

Double Gloucester. 

Roquefort. 

Grorgonzola. 

Cheshire. 

Cheddar. 
r Single Gloucester. 

Shropshire. 

American. 
-North Wiltshire, 
r Suffolk. 



Cheeses made of skimmed milk . • \ Parmesan. 

iDutch. 

Cheese is required for two purposes ; one is for eating in 
small quantities as a fillip to the palate, and the other is in 



CO GENEEAL DIETETICS, 

order that it may serve as a substantial food. For the first 
purpose it may be produced in a rancid, decayed state, and is 
best when of a rich buttery sort. But to be taken as a meal, 
to satisfy hunger, newer cheese is better. Poor cheeses, such 
as the Dutch, are wholesome and digestible if cut in very thin 
slices and buttered. Toasted cheese is also digestible if it is 
new and lightly cooked with cream and butter. Tough 
toasted cheese is about as soluble as leather. 

Eggs, — To choose eggs, dissolve one ounce of common salt 
in half a pint of water, that is, ten fluid ounces measured with 
a medicine measure glass. In brine of this strength a good 
egg will sink, a bad egg will float. If held up to a candle a 
fresh egg will be found to be more transparent than a stale 
one, or than one with a chicken in it. Fresh eggs are most 
transparent in the centre, stale ones at the end. 

If absolutely necessary, eggs may be preserved some time 
by rubbing them well with fresh grease when taken warm 
from the hen-house. But if they acquire a smell of old straw 
they are unfit for food. Lime gives them a peculiar taste, 
and prevents the albumen setting. 

Rennet. — Uennet is not always to be obtained good in 
the country. It may be thus prepared for domestic use in 
making whey, junkets, &c. Take a c£tlf 's * bag ' with the curd 
in it (that is the fourth stomach, or abomasus,^ filled with acid 
chyle), pick out all the hairs, and wash bag and curd clean. 
Then replace the curd in the bag with six or seven ounces 
of salt, and set them by for a week in a cool dairy. Then 
take a strong brine, made of a quart of water to a pound of 
salt, and pour it cold on the rennet. When it has stood again 
for a week the liquor is fit for use, 

' It is figured in a volume previously referred to, DaltorCs Hwman 
Physiology t p. 105. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 61 



§ 8. Beead Stuffs. 

There is no bread so digestible as that made by an honest, 
experienced baker. In baking at homo yon secnre the 
honesty, but yon lack the experience. The chance has to be 
taken of a bad batch throngh some accident ; and then the 
best mnst be made of it till it is finished. 

If one had to live on bread alone, brown bread wonld 
perhaps be pireferable, for (as Professor Liebig tanght us) it 
contains in the bran and pollards, which are returned to it 
after grinding to make it brown, a considerable quantity of 
phosphate of lime, valuable as nutriment to the bones and 
other tissues. But the fact is, most of us take in other ways 
plenty of phosphates in a more digestible form than bran, and 
the irritating effect which it has on the bowels shows that it 
is not, in this form,' made much use of by them as a nutriment. 
White bread is generally chosen in preference by shrewd 
working men who wish to make the money spent on food go 
as far as it can. It is also far less likely to be withy and 
tough, and is less often adulterated. 

Not but what some remains of the bran is pleasant, both 
to the eye and to the palate, as in the flour which is called 
* seconds,' which makes a very good bread, probably in con- 
sequence of this flour not being over-ground. Too much 
friction ruptures the starch granules, and the dough does not 
rise well. 

Bread should be evenly porous without any large holes, 
like a fine sponge. The texture should be firm, of which 
virtue the best test is the being able to cut it up into thin 
bread and butter. Tough, clammy new bread becomes wadded 
together into an insoluble mass by chewing, is not penetrated 
by the saliva or gastric juice, ferments anew, and even in 
strong persons is apt to produce a disagreeable form of heart- 
bum. If from necessity it must be eaten, heating and 



62 GENEKAL DIETETICS. 

copious buttering, as we heat rolls or crumpets, is the best 
expedient to make it as digestible as circumstances admit. 

A considerable portion of -water quickly evaporates from 
hot bread, causing of course a loss of weight, so that bakers 
will sometimes try to prevent it by covering up the loaves 
from the air. The crust is thereby rendered withy, and the 
crumb is wet and tough, besides which you are buying water 
at the price of bread. 

There is another and more objectionable way in which the 
loaf is forced to hold water in excess, that is the addition of 
boiled rice-flour. It is a sticky paste, which renders the 
dough more adhesive, and prevents evaporation. So that 21 
quartern loaves are made with what ought to make only 20. 
They may be found out by their sodden bottoms, the water 
gravitating by standing. To shirk this test, bakers will 
turn them upside down on the shelves, which always looks 
suspicious. 

I am told by a retailer of glue that bakers buy a good deal 
of that substance, and the inference is that it is used in the 
same way to make the dough adhesive. 

It is said also that alum is added for the same fraudulent 
purpose, even to good flour. But its usual object is to make 
a damaged article bear a good white colour, and stop the 
excess of fermentation to which it is liable. Alum is easily 
detected in the laboratory by incinerating the bread suspected 
to contain it, and our analysts are active in this direction. 
However, they must guard against being too pedantic, and a 
distinct line must be drawn between the baker who habitually 
uses a great quantity of adulterant, to dispose of flour which 
he has wilfully bought in a bad state, and he who now and then 
rectifies an accidental loss of goodness by the employment of 
the drug. But certainly the less alum he uses, the more he 
is to be trusted. 

The best bread grows stale the slowest. ' Aerated bread,* 
where the dough is raised according to Dauglish*s patent, by 
forcing pure carbonic acid into it, keeps better than any. It 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 63 

is free from the objectionable presence of the remains of the 
yeast, not to be avoided otherwise, and is more certain to be 
wholesome than ordinary bread. It is popular, too, at that 
test of palatable simplicity, the nursery tea-table. 

Yeast is a great dif&culty with those who bake at home. 
Brewer*s barm is the best, but it is apt to die between one 
baking and another, and is not easy to be got. Although 
country tradesmen object to sell it, many retail bakers in 
London will engage to send regularly by post an ounce or two 
of * German yeast,' whicji thus arrives quite fresh and active. 
An orderly cook can keep a ferment in constant action by 
starting it with some of this ' German yeast ' and daily feeding 
the mixture, placed in a cool situation, with some fresh malt 
and mashed potato or dough. 

An acquaintance with the theory of fermentation as ex- 
plained in all books of physiology, and recently made doubly 
instructive by the researches of M. Pasteur, will enable an 
educated person to point out the remedy for all difi&culties 
connected with the process encountered in the kitchen. 

Biscuits are too hard for ordinary consumption as a bread 
stuff, if made from flour and water only, as ^ captains ' and 
* ship biscuits ' are. They are very useful, however, to 
travellers, in readiness for those frequent occasions on which 
the bread is tough, sour, bitter, or otherwise uneatable. They 
bear exposure and rough treatment, and if soaked for a few 
hours in water or milk they take up several times their own 
weight of fluid, soften and swell, and with a little cream and 
sugar make a dainty dish of eminent digestibility. Biscuit 
powder for infiants should be made from this kind. 

Fancy biscuits are too numerous to describe, and of 
various merits. The addition of milk, sugar, eggs, flavours, 
&C.J makes them less digestible than the plainer sort. Those 
made on a large scale by special manufa/cturers are the best, 
because in them the partial raising of the dough is eflected by 
plain carbonic acid, instead of by carbonate of ammonia. 

When biscuits become damaged they are often damped 



y 



64 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

and heated anew in the oven. They quickly lose the artificial 
newness thus acquired, and grow stale and musty. So they 
are safest purchased in tins, where they are not so likely to 
be tampered with. 

Oatmeal, — The coarsely-ground Scotch oatmeal is the 
most suitable both for porridge and cakes. If imperfectly 
boiled, as when prepared in a hurry, or intentionally unboiled 
as in brose, it is extremely indigestible, and produces the obsti- 
nate water brash, common in the parts of the country where it 
is habitually used. But when well boiled and eaten slowly, so 
as to become well mixed with saliva, it is a wholesome as well 
as a nutritious food. An oaten diet has bred the Scotch 
farmer and the English horse, and where will their equals 
be found ? 

Emden grits are the best adapted form of oats for gruel. 

Barley and rye do not appear to possess any distinctive 
virtues which can give them an interest in the eyes of a 
medical man. Though useful when other cereals are not to be 
got, they are inferior to them in solubility and nutritive power, 
and, at the same time, have not the attractive taste which 
would cause them to be a temptation against which a warning 
is necessary. 

Maize in various forms is often recommended as a valuable 
food. It contains a good deal of oily matter, and on that ac- 
count is used for fattening geese at Strasburg, and other do- 
mestic animals elsewhere. But its oiliness inclines it readily 
to grow rarfcid, and in this state it is apt in horses to cause 
eczema of the skin. It cannot therefore be wholesome for us ; 
and in fact we find that in Lombardy and the Valtelina, where 
damaged maize is habitually eaten, a special endemic cutaneous 
disease — Pellagra — ^year by year slowly widens its fetal shadow 
over the finest lands tilled by man. It is distinctly traced by 
Dr. Lombroso (v. Lomhroso sulla Pellagra) to the peculiar 
moulds which form in this decomposing breadstuff. 

Maize flour may be refined and made safer by washing out 
the nutritive portion with alkalies, and in this state professes 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 65 

to constitute 'oswego,* 'maizena,* ' corn-flour,* &c. But the 
eater should understand that he has before him starch only, 
and must not reckon on it for nitrogenous nutriment. The 
economist will probably think he can buy starch cheaper in 
the form of rice-flour, which, indeed, is often sold under these 
fJEincy names, according to the evidence of Dr. Bartlett before 
the Adulteration Committee this summer. 



Other forms of Starch commonly sold. 

Arrowroot (West Indian best). 

Cassava meal. 

Potato starch (nncolonred). 

Sago (unbleached best). 

Sago meal. 

Salep. 

Tacca starch, or ' Otaheite Arrowroot.' 

Tapioca. 

Tapioca meal, or * Brazilian Arrowroot.' 

Tous-le-mois (West Indian). 

The only preference that can be given to one of these over the 
other depends upon its flavour. All are equally wholesome, 
and equally suitable for the occasions when a physician wishes 
to administer starch without admixture. 



§ 9. Alcoholic Drinks. 

Wine. — This is a subject terribly over-laden with literature, 
historical, poetical, scientific, and occasionally nonsensical. 
So that a simple purchaser who wants to know how to get a 
good glass of wine has no small labour to winnow out the 
required information from so much chaff. 

The first thing a householder should think of before he 
stocks his cellar is, what he wants the wine for P Is it to 
take as a regular beverage ? or on festive occasions only P 
Does he intend to drink it only because it is niceP or to 
empby it for himself or others as a medicine? Here are 

F 



gg GElinSBAL DIETETICS. 

ilie fimr oliief uses of wine, and different wines are snitable 

for each. 

As a regular beverage for a healthy person there is no wine 
in the English market eqnal to claret. The intelligence and 
penererance of the Bordelais vintager, improving yearly on 
the traditional experience of centuries, does the best that can 
be done for a very good grape. Nothing can be more perfectly 
made than the greater part of the low-priced Bordeaux wine, 
so abundant now in the English market, and the nearer to 
that our daily drink approaches, the more typical it is. 

But on special occasions human nature is all the better for 
a drink that is more exhilarating to the palate ; and I cannot 
observe that any evil follows these temperately limited indul- 
gences. But tastes so differ that I venture not to prescribe 
what a man or his &iends will find most suitable for this 
purpose. And as to medicinal employment, to avoid repetition 
I will reserve what I have to say to the third part of this 
volume. What is more appropriate here is a short sketch of 
the industrial history of this old and valued gladdener of the 
human heart. 

Everybody distinguishes in the grape three parts, viz., the 
pulp, the stones, the ' skin. It is on the forms and degrees 
of pressure exerted to extract the juice that the presence of 
these several parts in different proportions in the wine depends. 
In the pnlp is the syrup, which ferments into alcohol, the 
amount of which constitutes the value of the wine. So as 
much of that as possible is got out. In the stones are essential 
oils, which in delicately graduated moderation are wanted to 
oontribnte to the formation of a * bouquet.' ^ In the skin and 
stalks is tannin, necessary to give astringency, and preserve the 
liquid from mouldiness ; and there are also colouring matter 
and extractive, which contribute a distinctive hue, a thickness, 
or ' body,' and fruitiness. There are in the juice, tartaric acid 

> The French expression < bonqaet ' is very expressive, for it is a nosegay 
of not one scent, but many. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 67 

« 

ftnd its salts in considerable quantity, and citrate, and malate 
in smaller amount: these are rather necessary evils than 
desirable ingredients, and the owner is glad to see his most 
deposit the greater part of them in the * ta/rta/r ' — a product of 
the vintage for which he expressed his dislike by the bad 
name he gave it in the old days of strong language.^ There 
is also some nitrogenous matter, which in undergoing chemical 
changes acts as a ferment, and having done its work ought to 
disappear, lest it should re-estabhsh fermentation when not 
required. Now the perfection of wine consists in the manu- 
fitcture being so conducted that each of these above-named 
elementary constituents of the grape is expressed from the 
fruit in exactly the proportion most conducive to the whole- 
someness of an alcoholic beverage. 

K any of the 'above-named ingredients or their products 
exhibit themselves conspicuously in the perfected liquor, a 
peculiar character is given to it, which causes it to be sought 
out for real or supposed advantages, or avoided for real or 
supposed evils. We are thus enabled to classify wines in the 
following groups : — 

1. Strong drnj wines, — In these the syrup of the must has 
been in large proportion and has fermented thoroughly into a 
large proportion of alcohol. 

2. Strong sweet wmes, — Here the sugar has either existed 
naturally in such excess, or has been added in such excess, as 
to stop fermentation and remain sweet. 

3. Aromatic wvneSf whose chief feature is a delicate diffusible 
odour, comparable to that of flowers, and thence termed 
^ hov^piet.' This depends on the union of sundry essential oils 
with the alcohol in a nascent state, by which oenanthic and 
other volatile ethers are produced. 

4. Add wvnesy whence the natural acid cannot be eliminated 

' 8dl Tartari = * hell-salt:* Cfremor TartaH = < hell-sctun/ cream of 
tartar. The history of the word is not known, but Paracelsus found it in 
use in his day. 

F 2 



68 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

without desiaroying the flavour. Tho acid in them is mostly 
tartaric, whereas in wines that have turned sour it is acetic. 

5. SparHing wines. — ^Here the ferment is not allowed 
entirely to exhaust itself before bottling, so that it goes on 
slowly under severe pressure, and saturates the wine with 
carbonic acid, at the same time giving birth to flavours which 
would not otherwise be produced, and to very exhilarating 
ethers, without much alcohol. 

6. Terfect vn/nes, — Here as many of the above qualities 
as possible are combined without interfering with one another. 

7. Bottgh tvines, in which the astringent tannin is predomi- 
nant. 

The best safeguard against the noxious adulteration of 
wine is an acquaintance with that which is good. For the 
chemical constitution is so complex, and the declarative 
laboratory tests of its due and undue contents so doubtful, 
that the wisest analysts hesitate to pronounce aU but the most 
obvions truths-which indeed we dieticians are not very 
anxious to know — such as its alcoholic and saccharine and 
watery contents. I shall in going through the principal 
wines in order of their classes confine myself almost entirely 
to saying what they ought to be ; and in speaking of their 
faults I shall mention only the faults which even the best 
possess. For if ordinary care is used we shall know that our 
drink is not adulterated simply because it is good. 

Strong dry wmes (1) are well headed by Sherry, which is 
the strongest and driest of all ; it is ably supported by 
Port, Madeira, Marsala, Johannisberg, and a few (very few) 
other products of northern grapes. These all contain too 
much alcohol to drink dietetically ; much diluent must be 
taken at the same time to make them wholesome. But for 
festive use, to make conversation seem agreeable and promote 
good fellowship, they are excellent. Except Marsala, they 
are well qualified for that post by agreeable flavour. And 
Marsala would be the same, if we could obtain it as sold in 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 69 

Italy and Sicily. Bat to prepare it to stand the sea voyage 
spirit has to be added, and the Sicilian stills supply a most 
nanseons and poisonous article. There are many other of 
that island's wines kept out of our market by the same 
impediment. The white wine of Syracuse (Isola) nearly 
eqnals Madeira, and at a way-side public house near Taormina 
I have had some put on table which tasted like the finest 
ripe port. 

Bed wines of this class must contain a great deal of 
extractive, or *body,* as wine merchants call it. They should 
therefore leave the impression of a decided fruity flavour on the 
palate. But the shorter time this flavour lasts the riper and 
better is the liquid. Their sweetness should not be the sweet- 
ness of loaf sugar, but of nectarines or whortleberries, and 
should quit the mouth as rapidly as the fruitiness. 

The white wines should have less body, and be as free as 
possible from acidity. Even Madeira, which we bom * Gonstde 
PUmco ' have been in the habit of reckoning as normally full 
of acetic acid, has since the re-introduction of the grape into 
the island been made quite free from that noxious content. 

Make your visit to your wine merchant when you are a 
little tired ; yon will then be able the more readily to apply a 
test peculiarly suitable to strong dry wines, but not out of 
place with all, namely, whether a small sip acts as an im- 
mediate revivifier of the nerves. No imitation wine has 
this quality. Never be induced to bite a bit of cheese before 
tasting. It makes all wine seem good. 

Constant use of strong wines induces a congested and 
insensitive state of the gastric mucous membrane, which pre- 
vents its glands from secreting freely, and by reflex action 
affects also the salivary glands ; these liquors are absorbed 
slowly, and what sugar remains in them, and much of the 
alcohol also, becomes converted into acetic acid, which fer- 
mentation farther causes the oleaginous ingredients in the 
food to become rancid* Thus is generated * acidity ' of stomach , 
parent of gout and all its hideous crew. 



70 GENEBAL DIETETICS. 

Strang sweet wines (2) are represented in onr markets by 
Malaga, Alicante, Gonstantia, Tent, Imperial Tokay, Paxarete, 
Malmsey, the exported Lacryma Christi.^ They are fit to 
drink only in small quantities, and are best appreciated with 
a plain biscuit, when the stomach is not full. Thus taken they 
are a wholesome substitute for tea. 

In choosing sweet wines we must be careful to observe 
that their sugar does not cover a large quantify of acid, or 
they become unwholesome. Its effect on the teeth usually 
detects this fault, or acetic acid may be smelt, but the most 
certain test is to dilute with water and use litmus paper. 

In order to enhance their flavour and bouquet, the natu- 
rally dry vintages are often, either during the manufeicture or 
afterwards, made sweet. The most usual and least objection- 
able process is checking the fermentation by the addition of 
boiled grape-juice, and the result of this is an indubitably less 
wholesome article. By long cellaring the sweetness slowly 
disappears, and the fine flavour remains ; but there is much 
risk of decomposition, which has to be guarded against by 
adding an excess of alcohol. Almost all the port now to be 
had is an artificial wine of this sort. The port drunk by our 
grandfathers, and up to 1820, was a dry, well-balanced wine, 
capable of being kept without brandy and without damage 
for several generations. I have in Portugal tasted some per- 
fectly sound, which had been in a private cellar upwards of 
seventy years. But the summer of 1820 was an extraordinary 
one and produced in the Peninsula a vintage such as had 
never been seen before, and the wine by a preternatural rich- 
ness of flavour secured a fatal popularity. Since then, the sole 
ambition of the Oporto merchant is to imitate 1820. He has 
more or less succeeded, but at the expense of British digestions. 

3. Aromatic vmies, — Several of the afore-mentioned have 
a fine bouquet, but what are intended here are such as are 
chosen for their aroma almost entirely. 

' That used for home consxunption is a badly-made wine, which will not 
keep till it is ripe. The choicest Lacryma goes to Augsburg. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 71 

Moselle, the choicer Hhine wines, first qnaliiy ChAblis, 
Lmiel, Chl^tean Yquem, several Italian wines (snch as Orvieto, 
Monte Polciano, Capri, d'Asti), champagne, are of this 
description. They bear carriage badly, and have to be pre- 
pared for the voyage by artificial additions. So that, while 
wholesome in their native land, they are apt to be much the 
contrary as found here, and besides have often lost their aroma 
unless they are brandied. 

The main virtue lies in their filavonr, which is a question 
of idiosyncrasy needless to discuss. If they contain fusel oil, 
the indications of which are spoken of further on, they are 
snre to be bad, as no one would put potato spirit into a 
valuable article. 

4. Acid tvmes must be in justice carefully distinguished 
from wines which have turned sour. The acid of the latter 
is nascent vinegar, whose presence indicates the probabiliiy 
of other more noxious accompaniment of decomposition being 
also in the damaged liquid, such as poisonous moulds and 
fungi, for example ; but some wines are reaUy made with an 
excess of acid, consisting mainly of the tartaric and its super- 
salts. This happens mostly to the growths of cold countries, 
snch as the Bhine districts and the environs of Paris. White 
Burgundy wines (of which Ch^blis is the best known) and 
white Bordeaux wines (Sauteme), unless in exceptional years, 
are more noted for their acid than for their aroma. They are 
best adapted for taking with rich, greasy dishes, and suit well 
the dietary of the luxurious districts where they are grown. 
They are an agreeable adjunct to the usual ingredients of 
salad dressing. 

5. Sparkling wines, — Champagne, St. Peray (from the 
Rhone), Seyssel (or ' Swiss Champagne '), Sparkling Moselle, 
Vino d'Asti, are the best known. Good champagne is by £ar 
the whelesomest, and with a minimum of alcohol possesses 
remarkable exhilarating power, from the rapid absorption of 
its vinous ether diffused by the liberated carbonic acid. 
BiUSry mousseva contains, according to M. Cyr's table, only 



72 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

from 9 to 11 per cent, of absolute alcohol, but to a sinking 
fever patient a glass will give twice the energy that can be 
obtained from a glass of brandy. The other effervescing wines 
will be drunk only by those who are reckless or ignorant of 
consequences. 

The test of a sparkling wine is to leave it uncorked. If it 
be vapid after twenty-four hours, it is bad, and it is good in 
direct ratio to the length of time it retains its sparkle and 
aroma. That which roughens the teeth should never be again 
tasted ; it is made of cider and rhubarb stalks ; the roughness 
is from the malic acid it contains. 

Good champagne has a slight rosy tint. 

All these five classes of wine prudence will reserve for 
festive purposes and occasions ; the wise man who wishes to 
enjoy life will make them always exceptional, for as idlers 
have no holidays, so perpetual feasters miss all the pleasures 
of variety ; but I am quite sure that the not infrequent manu- 
facture of occasions for domestic rejoicing, a birthday, a 
wedding anniversary, a harvest home, a horse sold, the plant- 
ing of a tree, the calving of a cow, a daughter presented at 
court, or cutting her first tooth, or any other good stroke of 
business, is a great promoter, not only of love and happiness, 
but of personal health. Let the beverages which celebrate the 
occasion be chosen for their peculiar and exceptional flavours. 
If they are good of their class, the moderate use will not 
shorten, but both cheer and lengthen life. 

6. Perfect vdnes, — ^By this term is intended such as possess 
the virtues derived from the presence of alcohol, of water, of 
sugar, of etherial flavours, of fruity extractive, and of acids, 
without any of them being so predominant as to mask the 
others, or to require artificial additions for the preservation of 
soundness and flavour. An enormous acreage is devoted to 
the production of red wines of this character in the depart- 
ment of the Gironde and other places in France of similar 
climate. We give the name of * claret ' to the whole of them, 
which is better than pedantically endeavouring to affix geo- 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 73 

graphical distinctions. One of the merchant-princes of 
Bordeaux, a statesman of the highest integrity, gave me some 
years ago a hint which I have found of the greatest service in 
the diagnosis of wine-dealers. ' When,' said he, ' a tradesman 
offers yon, at anything but the very highest price, our wines 
with the name of an estate attached to them, he is giving 
• currency to a deception. K he uses the terms of First, Second, 
and Third Quality clarets, it is so-far-forth an evidence of 
honesty.' The wholesale houses and brokers buy up from 
farmers, many of whom do not make half-a-dozen hogsheads a 
year, all but the small quantity which is kept to store as 
* vintage ' wines, vine ae Vuxe^ and indeed much that is quite 
equal in quality to these speculative articles. The produce is 
mixed under the superintendence of cellarers, who at Bordeaux 
form a sort of hereditary caste, handing down their secrets 
from father to son, and adding fresh knowledge — 

Till old experience doth attain 
To something of prophetic strain. 

The mixed wine is classed as premiere, iecoiide, and 
troinhne qualiti, not from any comparative superiority in 
"wholesomeness, but according to the price it will fetch in the 
market. Thus a much better general result is secured than 
if it were kept separate, as is to a considerable extent done on 
the Rhine. 

The finer * vintage wines ' — that is, the unmixed produce 
of a separate choice vineyard — can only bo really obtained by 
extraordinary luck or extraordinary measares. Pope Leo X. 
(says a local historian of Rheims), Francis I. of France, 
Charles V. of Spain, and our Henry VIII. each purchased a 
vineyard at Ay, and built a house on it for a guardian, in 
order to secure special champagne. If we poor frogs let our 
vaulting ambition lead us to emulate these mighty oxen we 
suffer the frog's fate, and are ofben poisoned by noxious imita- 
tions. We are much better served if we content ourselves 
with a good honest average article than if we aim at an un- 
attaiimble exclusiveness. 



74 GENERAL DIETETICa 

If an exporter wishes to pass off some of the blended 
liquid as the production of some special average cru he ac- 
complishes his object very often by adding an artificial scent. 
K he wants to sell (say) Chateau-Latour, he uses nuts or 
ahnonds, or something which smells like them ; if his ambi- 
tion leads him to aim at Chiiteau-Lafitte, he adds a whiff of 
violets also ; if Leoville be his object, violet alone is probably 
enough. Others seem flavoured with cherries. When the 
wine is originally good it is not likely that its wholesomeness 
can be seriously interfered with by this aessthetic firaud. 

But the same cannot be said when imperfect wines not 
tempered by admixture, or damaged wines, are cured and 
fortified for export with flavours and body and alcohol. The 
fault of the two former is not so much that they are actively 
deleterious, which is not known to be the case,^ as that they 
hide the nauseousness of an unwholesome article ; and the same 
might be asserted of the alcohol, if it were inserted in the 
form of ripe French brandy, but the price of that would be 
too high, and new spirit, of which the qualities will be 
described presently, is used. 

Against the adulteration of claret which does not pretend 
to be anything else than ' first,' * second,' or ' third ' quality, 

* The substances sold by adulterators and druggists for flavouring alco* 
holic liquors are, according to Dr. Hassall, cocculus indicus, grains of para- 
dise, capsicum, ginger, quassia, wormwood, orris root, carraway and coriander 
seeds, orange powder, liquorice, honey, sulphuric acid, cream of tartar, alum, 
carbonate of potash, hartshorn shavings, nux vomica, gentian, chamomile, 
tobacco, opium, juniper berries, angelica root, and bitter almonds. The 
quantities used of the active drugs are infinitesimally small, and would be 
nauseous if employed in noxious doses. In a trade circular headed Im- 
^portant Information for Practical Men, Eichler's Receipts for Liquors 
teaches how to use also tincture of green tea, raisins, figs, St. John's bread, 
rhatany, catechu, elderberry, cherry and huckleberry juice, brown sugar, 
yeast — and so £ar we know what we are about. But as much cannot be 
asserted when we take in hand a mysterious * wine colouring,* and still 
less when the ill-omened name of * body preparation * is given to one of the 
drugs recommended. {Eeport of State Board of Health qf Massachitsetts 
1873, p. 167.) 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 76 

we liave the yalnable safegaard of the enormous qnantity that 
is made, and the small profits which could be got out of the 
labour and risk of adulterating it. It maj be nasty, but it is 
the juice of the grape. 

The commoner Burgundies and the red Rhone wines run 
our claret very hard in the race for perfection ; they err in 
contidning too much fruity extractive, which, except the wine 
happens to be very strong in alcohol, causes decomposition. 
They do not keep well, and must be drunk off directly they 
are ripe, or they become unwholesome ; but it is only just to 
say that they are much improved lately, and there seems little 
doubt that the scientific advice of M. Pasteur and others is 
calculated to improve them still further. The cause of un- 
wholesomeness in Burgundy is usually the re-establishment of 
fermentation, through the formation of mouldiaess in the 
bottle. To detect the presence of this destructive action, cork 
lightly down about two-thirds of a bottle of the wine, shake it 
well for half a minute or so, and let it stand : if there is any 
carbonic acid set free, so as to expel the cork too readily, the 
Burgundy is unwholesome, and it will, if drunk daily, produce 
feverishness, tension of the eyeballs, throbbing of the arteries, 
dry furred tongue, and indigestion. 

The grand old-fashioned vintage Burgundies, such as 
Chambertin, Clos Yougeot, &c., do not produce these effects, 
as they are sufficiently alcohoUzed not to decompose ; but their 
price and their strength fit them only for holidays. They 
should be treated like port, and taken in a single glass with 
some exceptionally prime dish, such as venison or a saddle of 
four-year-old mutton. The primest Burgundies are those 
which have a peculiar odour of wallflowers. 

Beaujolais was introduced a few years ago from the Ma9on 
market by means of some choice specimens, but it has not 
sustained its first reputation. It is apt to turn sour, and at 
the best has very little bouquet. 

The Hungarian wines have been lately widely advertised 
as superior to claret. Some pi them have certainly pleasant 



I 



76 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

frniiy flavours, but they do not ripen well in the cellar, and are 
liable to decomposition. They are inferior to the produce of 
French vineyards at the same price. 

Perfect wines have a rich colour, not too dark, and an 
odour of garden flowers. They do not roughen the tongue 
with tartness. Their flavour pervades the whole sensitive 
mucous membrane quickly, but quickly fades, leaving a 
pleasant memory, a pure breath, and a cool mouth. They 
should not crust the bottle much, or they are too near their 
prime to keep. Claret cannot be trusted to last more than 
sixteen years, and Burgundy goes still sooner. 

7. Bough wines owe their character to the relatively large 
proportion of tannin which they contain. They have usually 
a brilliant tint, but are deficient in alcohol ; and their principal 
use in the trade is to mix with others to impart colour and 
keepiQg qualities. The Yin de Cahors and Boussillon come 
under this category ; the latter, being stronger in alcohol than 
the majority of rough wines, appears in the markets in its own 
name ; at the merchants' and in public-houses as ' Burgundy 
Port.' In M. Cyr's table it is stated to contain 16*68 per cent. 
of absolute alcohol, as against 17*63 per cent, assigned to 
sherry, and 20 per cent, to port. The ordinary drink of the 
population in wine countries usually consists of these rough 
beverages ; but even were they beneficial to health, which is 
questionable, it would be useless to recommend them to those 
who can procure something more palatable. 

Of pure wine the ripening is soon efiected, and after a 
year or so the palate only has to be consulted as to the time 
of consumption. But it is not so with vintages whose peculiar 
flavours it is desirable to preserve by retaining unfermented a 
portion of the sugar and the oil of the grape- stone. Unless 
these choice wines are * fortified ' with spirit they decay pre- 
maturely, grow mouldy or * bitter,' rancid and sour. Now if 
pure alcohol or old French brandy were used for this purpose 
little harm would be done, but the manufacturers commonly 
employ for cheapness new potato or com spirit, loaded with 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 77 

the poisonons amylic ether which the manufacturers call ' oil 
of grain/ or * faael oil ' ; and then the only chance for the con- 
somer getting a wholesome beverage is to keep it at the risk 
of deterioration, till it has become a costly luxury. Woe to 
the drinkers of cheap Peninsular wines and their imitations ! 
There has been some question lately as to how ' purity ' 
in wine is to be defined in legislative or other literature. Is 
it an adulteration to add alcohol to wine ? I do not see how 
it can be considered so, and if it were, the proof of the 
addition of one of the normal constituents of the liquid would 
be difficult ; just as it is difficult to decide, except by a con- 
ventional standard, that the water in our milk does not come 
from the cow; and conventional standards are not strict 
justice. But if the offence were held to consist in ' fuseling ' 
wine, there would be but little impediment to our learning 
from an analyst whether we had an article fit for human 
consumption or not, and also its proximate commercial 
▼alue. 

Beer, — The fiirst thing to be guarded against in malt 
liquors is sourness, or, as it is technically called, 'hardness.' 
All beer will turn into vinegar in time, but some undergo 
this decomposition much quicker than others, from having 
been run into dirty vats. In most of the popular London 
breweries they calculate that the beer made will be consumed 
80 quickly that the presence of a little more or less vinegar 
does not signify; and they daily brew in their vast vats, 
reeking so strongly of acetic acid that you cannot open your 
eyes when you hold your head over them. Some of these 
brewers hold a most respectable position in society, go to 
church, and yet never ask forgiveness for the sickness, 
poverty, and misery they have caused by their dishonesty ! 
There is no more fertile source of gout, rheumatism, diseased 
heart, dropsy, and the consequent early death of the robust 
working man, than this beer just on the turn and ready to be- 
come thick vinegar in the stomach. 

The best mode of saving doubtful beer is to bottle it. But 



78 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

the bottle mnst be used directly it is opened, for the admission 
of oxygen quickly renews the acetic fermentation, and it goes 
sonrer than ever. 

Sound beer should not at all redden damp litmus paper 
held over it, and very slightly redden it when dipped. 

Compared with sourness all other adulterations of beer are, 
in the dietician's eyes, as bugs compared with tigers. They 
irritate, but do not destroy life. The interest in detecting 
them is principally commercial. The chemical knowledge 
necessary to detect them is great, and the work is best left 
to professional analysts ; for the ordinary consumer will be 
practically safe if he takes care that his daily beverage does 
not readily turn sour. 

Distilled Spirits, — In every respect the worst form in which 
alcohol can be habitually consumed. To continue to produce 
the desired effect day by day it is necessary to continuously 
increase the strength or the frequency of the dose. Almost 
all the cases in which injury to physical health has been 
traced to alcohol are due to drinking it in the shape of 
spirits. 

These liquors are by no means to be considered as merely 
dilutions of their chief ingredient. The products of recent 
distillation are always deeply saturated with fusel oil. It is 
not an adulteration, for gladly would the distillers get rid of 
it, and would pay largely anybody able to teach them how to 
do so quickly and cheaply. But it is much more injurious to 
health than any possible adulteration. I had once an idea 
that this waste product might be made of economical use, as a 
medicine or otherwise, and gave it to a considerable number 
of persons in doses of from one to ten drops. The consequences 
were feverishness, furred -tongue, throbbing of the temples, 
and headache ; and I determined henceforth that unmellowed 
spirit must be absolutely prohibited even from occasional or 
medicinal use in the dietary. 

Afber cellaring for a year or so, a great part of this 
poisonous ingredient] disappears by decomposition, leaving 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 79 

only pecnliar flavoars. A qnicker mode of prodacing the 
game effect is to let the spirit drip slowly through the air, at 
the cost of mnch loss by evaporation, but with the result of 
makixig the beverage much more wholesome. 

For medical use among the poor, and even among the rich 
who keep bad cellars, spirits of wine is often better than the 
ordinary compounds. There are cases in which we wish to 
increase the action of the heart and decrease the heat of the 
BJdn only, without specially affecting the nervous system, and 
where the ^sel oil and free acid of publicans' liquors would 
be dangerous to the digestive viscera. The alcohol in chemists' 
spirits of wine is usually uncontaminated. 

If fusel oil cannot be detected by its peculiar, but not 
easily described, odour, it may usually be made evident by 
pouring some boiling water on the spirits or wine, and letting 
the mixture stand in a small room, or close cupboard, for the 
night. It is then dif^ed through the air. It may also be 
discerned in the breath of the consumer, but chemists have 
not yet helped us to any quantitative analysis of this obnoxious 
substance, and the only mode of avoiding too large a dose is 
to avoid it altogether. 

§ 10. Waters. 

It is only exceptionally fortunate people that have a chance 
of choosing what water they are supplied with. Still, it is of 
practical use to know what are the good and bad features of 
each sort ; especially the bad, in order that, if they are ex- 
hibited, the source may be avoided altogether, or the dangers 
provided against. 

DiMled water, as it is condensed from steam, is the ideal 
of perfect purity. It has not even air in it, and therefore 
tastes flat and metallic. But it makes capital tea, beer, or 
any other infusion or decoction. 

The principal bad feature it can exhibit is derived from its 
very purity. From the absence of salt, it dissolves and takes 



80 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

up in solntion any lead it may come across. So that in ships, 
or any other places supplied by condensing engines, frequent 
analysis of the water with sulphuretted hydrogen should be 
made, lest it be poisoned by the pipes or cisterns. 

Bain water may be, and often is, as pure as distilled water. 
It is in fact steam condensed in the great condensing appa- 
ratus of the sky. It is better aerated than distilled water ; 
and for culinary purposes, for washing, and the like, it is well 
adapted. But it is apt to pick up dirts on the surfaces where 
it is collected, and being, like the last, free from salts, it is 
also readily infected by lead. 

Bdver water is mainly rain-water which has been filtered 
by passing through the surface soil. A new risk, here, has to 
be guarded against, that of contamination by refuse organic 
matter in a state of oxidation, but not yet sufficiently oxidised 
into harmlessness. The latter object is secured by the motion 
and aeration of the flowing stream, and the greater part of the 
resultant dirt falls to the bottom, while the chloride of sodium 
and other salts make the water more agreeable and digestible. 
A purified river is the best drinking-water one can have, but 
unhappily it is not yet quite evident what length of exposure 
is necessary to secure its purification, and there is the uncom- 
fortable feeling that any organic matter may possibly be of a 
highly poisonous sort. Water from this source should not be 
drunk unless it be quite fi^e from taste and smell, either 
natarally or after filtration; or unless we can trace to an 
obviously harmless source any taste or smell we find in it. 
By ' harmless ' I mean such an impurity as peat, derived from 
superficial layers of that substance. This is not only harmless, 
but positively a security, showing that the water has passed 
through one of the best natural filters in the world ; and a 
slight tinge of it is by no means unpleasant. 

"Water containing sewage to any appreciable extent gives 
off a fetid smell just before the boiling temperature, and may 
be easily detected in this way. The boiling temperature 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 81 

renders it safe from germs capable of communicating infec- 
tious disease, but it does not make it clean or wholesome. 

The readiest test of the presence of nnoxidized organic 
matter is to pnt a drop of ' Condy's patent ozonized water 
for toilet purposes ' in a tumbler of water. If the purple-lake 
hue thus communicated remain for a quarter of an hour, the 
liquid is safe ; if ifc vanishes, there is more organic matter 
than there should be. The organic matter may indeed be 
soap-suds, or some equally innocent portion of our fated peck 
of dirt ; but, on the other hand, it may be the germ of typhoid 
fever or cholera derived from a source painful to contemplate. 
As wise persons who have to do with strange dogs always 
caustic a bite, however free from hydrophobia the animal may 
appear to be, so it is prudent always to filter river water unless 
we have tested its absolute purity. 

Iron is sometimes spoken of as an impurity which is a 
recommendation, rather than otherwise, of a water, because 
iron is given by us as a tonic. But I cannot agree with that 
opinion. We do not give iron to healthy persons, for if we 
did we should often find what I have observed in some who 
habitually used iron-stained water, viz., deficient nutrition, 
dyspepsia, and obstinate anaesmia. And when we give iron to 
the sick we give it as a drug, and not as a drink, and only 
in short courses, and moreover we do not order it to be used 
in cookery. I should strongly advise iron springs and streams 
to be avoided. 

Lakes are perfected rivers. The organic matter has first 
been oxidized by motion and exposure, and then is deposited 
by rest. When Londoners see the happiness and saving due 
to the bringing a few feet of Loch Katrine through Glasgow, 
no wonder that their mouths water for Bala, or some other 
available lake. Meanwhile the existing companies do their 
best to imitate lakes, by letting their property rest in reservoirs 
before distribution. 

Marslies are, however, in a very different position from 
lakes. They are not deep enough to allow the organic and 

G 



82 ttENEKAL DIETETICS. 

mineral matters to l>e dropped out of the way, and moreover 
they are filled with decaying weeds and insects. It is an 
observation due to Hippocrates, that the drinking of marsh 
water causes enlargement of the spleen, and many observations 
have decidedly confirmed this evidence of the conveyance of 
ague poison by drinking-water. Hippocrates remarks also on 
the unhealthiness of marsh- water, arising out of its frequent 
change of temperature ; it is hot in summer and icy in winter, 
thus tending to produce catarrhs.^ 

Springs are underground streams. Before the surface 
drainage which supplies them has got down to their level, it 
has been most thoroughly filtered of organic matter, so they 
are clear and bright. Moreover, being kept at a considerable 
barometric pressure, they hold a good deal of carbonic acid 
in solution, which renders them sparkling and exhilarating. 
But the presence of that carbonic acid makes them take np 
also a good deal of lime, iron, and other mineral constituents 
of the deep soil. They are * hard,' that is to say, their lime 
forms an insoluble compound with soap, curdles it, and prevents 
it cleaning your hands. This is a very good test of the 
presence of an excess of lime, and another is a deposit taking 
place in the teakettle after the carbonic acid, which suspends 
it, is driven ofi" by heat. Hard waters dry up the mucous 
membranes just as they do the skin, arrest digestion, and thus 
cause gout, gravel, and stone to be prevalent in the districts 
watered by them. 

Ordinary hard waters owe their objectionable quality to 
carbonate of lime made soluble by the presence of carbonic 
acid, and derived from the chalk in the strata through which 
they have passed. This is in a great measure cured by the 
means by which it is detected, as above mentioned, viz., by 
]poiling. But in certain districts, as for example in the Vale 
of Belvoir, the hard waters contain sulphate of lime, which is 
not thrown down by heat. So no boiling will rectify them, 

» Hippocrates J vol. i. p. 632, 3, edit. Kiihn. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 83 

and in soch districts rain or surface-water shotdd be employed 
for drinking and cooking. 

Shallow wells have the same virtues and faults as rivers. 
They are peculiarly liable to be poisoned by the neighbourhood 
of house drains. Deep wdls have rather the characters of 
springs. The tests of goodness are applicable accordingly. 
And hero it may be remarked that the tests mentioned above 
are merely hints to excite suspicion, selected as readily applic- 
able without the apparatus of a laboratory. If a doubt arise, 
no analysis should be trusted but that of a special analyst, 
for which full instructions are given by Dr. Parkes' and 
others. 

The perfections of water, from whatever source it come, 
are to be — 

1. Soft. 

2. Clean. 

3. Sparkling. 

4. Sufficiently impregnated with salt to be tasteless. 

The advantages of softness, that is to say, freedom from lime, 
are that soft water is a better solvent of all soluble matters, 
as is shown by its test action on soap. It is thus better 
adapted for most cooking purposes and for use in digestion. 

* Dirt ' in water is anything which ought not to be in it. 
There is no need to comment on the importance of its absence. 

Water spa/rJdimj with common air is more refreshing than 
when flat. It aids in the oxidation of the blood. Carbonic 
acid gas makes it a better solvent of fibrin and other difficultly 
soluble articles of food. 

Tdstelessness is sometimes looked upon as an evidence of 
the purity of water ; but this is not strictly true. Distilled 
water of absolute purity has a decided metallic flavour, which 
is removed by the addition of salt and air. The probability is 
that by these additions it is more assimilated to the fluids of 

> Practical Hygiene^ b. i. chap. i. sect. 5. 

o 2 



84 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

the body, and therefore is more digestible, more quickly ab- 
sorbed. For the same reason unboiled albumen is proverbially 
tasteless. * Is there any taste in the white of an egg ? ' 

Min&i'al waters for dietetic, as distinguished from medicinal, 
use should have the same virtues. Manufacturers say that 
* soda water ' is always most popular if it contains a minimum 
of soda, that is to say, if it is simply good drinking-water 
aerated. A very fashionable beverage now is *Apollinaris 
water,' the salts in which are in proportions to render it soft 
to the palate, and not in such quantity as to give it any 
medicinal action. ' It is as good for health as the water of 
Loch Katrine, though I cannot say it is any better. 

I have heard some parents object to their grown-up sons 
drinking soda water, under the idea that it diminishes their 
chance of seeing grandchildren around their hearth. I have 
not been able to trace any such baleful influence. But Potash 
and Lithia waters should be used by invalids only. 

Toast and water (made by pouring boiling water on a burnt 
biscuit and two or three cloves) is a wholesome drink, for it 
secures the neutralisation of all organic matter. 

Barley water, if well boiled for about a quarter of an hour^ 
is a good formula for making hard water more digestible. 
The * pearl barley ' of which it is made should be washed 
with two waters before using, and about two ozs. to the 
quart is generally found enough to make a drink to quench 
thirst. Some very thinly shaved lemon rind is the nicest 
flavouring. 

Those who drink for pleasure lemumade, orangeade, gwger 
heer, and the like, should always prepare them at home. The 
small dealers, who brew what is sold, are prone to use the 
cheaper tartaric, malic (as found in rhubarb), oxaUc, and even 
mineral acids, instead of oranges and lemons. And they 
employ as flavours the amylic ethers, or * fruit essences,' most 
deleterious drugs. 

Currant and ras^herry water are best made by squeezing 
the juice from the fresh fruit. 



THE CHOICE OF FOOD. 85 

Owps of yarioiLS kinds are wholesome drinks, if not too 
much fortified with spirituous liquors. Gura^oa should never 
be allowed to enter into their composition ; the peel of a 
Tangerine orange ground over a lamp of sugar will give all 
the flavour without the poison. Borage and cucumber rind 
are not injurious. 

Ice. — In Dr. Bidder's experiments on the gastric juice he 
found that low temperature does not exercise any deleterious 
influence upon it. "When absolutely frozen it dissolved albu- 
men as well as ever, though it was quitej'spoiled by heat.^ 
Again, the secretion of glands is arrested by feverishness of 
system, or by local elevation of animal warmth above the 
normal degree, and in hot weather or hot rooms it cannot but 
be beneficial to the stomach to reduce the unusual temperature 
to which the over-heated blood has brought it. Ice, therefore, 
is one of the most generally usefal additions to the dietary of 
both sick and healthy which the energy of modem trade has 
made ; and the ice-box puts a dainty supply within reach of us 
alL The only time when ice is found injurious is during the 
exhaustion and real cooling consequent on violent exercise 
and perspiration. Pond ice, glacier ice, and snow are much 
inferior to the lake ice with which the English market is 
supplied. They contain foreign and sometimes organic matters, 
and melt sooner. Ice machines are to be recommended as a 
means of obtaining cold when the best ice is out of reach. 
They are so frequently improved that it is unadvisable to say 
which is the best at present. 

' Die VerdauungssSfte, Bidder and Schmidt, Experiments ix. 1, 2, x. 1, 
zi. 1, XTi., xvii. 



87 



CHAPTER in. 

THE PREPAEATION OP FOOD. 

The most important element in cooking is indubitably the 
cook. And the most important of a cook's virtues is shown 
in the selection of food. A good cook is to a certain extent 
bom, not made ; and if bom deficient in necessary faculties, 
the novice should be made to understand that she has mistaken 
her mission. The necessary faculties are those of accurate 
taste and smell — with which, joined to enthusiasm and punc- 
tuality, she may become a useful and honoured member of 
society — without which she is simply an incumbrance. The 
tests to try her by are plainly- cooked eggs, joints, and vege- 
tables. K she regularly sends these up in a state to give 
a zest to her master's appetite, let him think no trouble or 
expense wasted in teaching her whatever she desires to learn ; 
if they excite disgust, harm rather than good is done by her 
technical knowledge of those disguises of inferiority known as 

* made-dishes.' Cleanliness may be taught, a variety of receipts 
may be bought, but a delicate nose is beyond price. Choose a 
cook young, choose her carefully, and treat her liberally. 

It is unwise to draw final conclusions as to character from 
habits which may be simply evidences of affectation. But 
coeteris jparihia I should always prefer a cook who talks about 
white or brown * Onion Sauce ' to one who discourses of 

* Soubise ' or * Lyonnaise,' who does not call mashed potatoes a 

* puree,' and to whom ' potage a la jardiniere ' is ' spring soup.' 
I like a thing to taste of what it is named afber, and have faith 
that a cook who calls a spade a spade will be most likely to 
dish it like a spade. 

It is an old remark that a good cook shows generally a 
bad temper. There is more truth in it than in most proverbs*^ 



88 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

or the fact is that in half- educated persons just indignation is 
apt to bear the appearance of wrath ; pnd the needful rebukes 
to over-reaching tradesmen, and the disappointments which 
one who loves her work must feel, if her enthusiasm is not 
appreciated, beget a sharpness of tongue and manner difficult 
to endure. Nevertheless it is wise to bear and forbear, and 
to keep an efficient servant when you have got one. 

This is not a cookery-book, and therefore, of course, the 
details of the kitchen could not be entered into, even were I 
equal to the task. It is not the business of these pages to 
teach how to make food nice, except so far as that quality indi- 
rectly bears upon its wholesomeness. All that can be attempted 
is to point out a few particulars in which the preparation of 
food bears upon what is known of the physiology of digestion 
and the economics of nutrition. And in a future chapter will 
be discussed the extent to which a physician should interfere 
with the cook in the administration of food in sickness. 

No kitchen is complete without an open range. It is im- 
possible to have a properly roasted joint by any other means, 
as I learnt by visiting the private premises of a * Patent 
Kitchener ' manufacturer, and finding there an old-fashioned 
fire-place in full operation. He cared too much for his dinner 
to employ his own works. Experience has led me to question 
even the economy of the close fire in practical working. 

Boasting is the most perfect mode possible of preparing 
meat for the table. The heat radiated from the open range 
coagulates the outer layer of albumen, and thus the exit of 
that which is still fluid is prevented, and it becomes solidified 
very slowly, if at all. The areolar tissue which unites the 
muscular fibres is converted by gradual heat into gelatine,* 
and is retained in the centre of the mass in a form ready for 
solution. At the same time the fibrine and albumen take on, 
according to Dr. Mulder,^ a foim more highly oxidized and, 

' Not, however, the sarcolemma, which an experiment of Professor 
KoUiker s seems to remove from the class of substances yieldiog gelatine. 
See KoUiker's Mikros. Anat^ vol. ii. p. 250. 

* Quoted in Moleschott's Didtetik, p. 450. 



THE. PREPARATION OF FOOD. 89 

especially in the ease of the former, more capable of solation 
in water. The fat also is melted out of the fat cells, and is 
partially combined with the alkali from the serum of the 
blood. Thus the external layer of albumen becomes a sort of 
box, which keeps together the valuable parts till they shall 
have undergone the desired changes by slow heat — a box, 
however, permeable by the oxygen of the free surrounding 
air, so that most of the empyreumatic oils generated by the 
charring of the surface are carried off. As these are neither 
agreeable nor wholesome, the loss is a gain. There is also an 
acrid volatile product, acroleine, produced by the burning of 
the fat, which is better removed. 

The first part of roasting should therefore be got through 
rapidly, by close exposure to a bright fire in a well- ventilated 
kitchen. By this the gravy is retained in the meat till, at 
the first incision, it flows out of a reddish colour. After the 
complete coagulation of the albumen on the surface the joint 
should be removed a little further ofi" from the fire, so as to 
roast gradually through. 

The whole time of roasting depends partly on the weight 
of the joint, partly on the sort of meat — 

Brown meats, such as beef, and mutton, and goose, require 
a quarter of an hour for each pound. 

Veal and pork the same, with five or six minutes added 
at the end to make sure of absence of red. 

White-fleshed birds take somewhat less; for example, a 
turkey of 8^ lbs. (according to M. Gouffe) only an hour and 
three quarters, a capon of 4 lbs. fifty minutes, a fowl of 3 lbs. 
half an hour, a pheasant thirty-five minutes, a partridge fifteen 
minutes. 

The fire should be thoroughly lighted before commencing, 
and kept up evenly ; two gills of broth put in the pan, and the 
larger roasts basted with it five or six times, the smaller three 
times, during roasting. Before removal from the spit some 
thick fleshy part should be pressed with the finger, to ascertain 
that it is soft. Uncooked parts retain their elasticity. All 
these times have been calculated on the understanding that 



90 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

there is no draught to lower the temperature between the fire 
and screen, for, however airy and well- ventilated the kitchen 
should be, such an irregular distribution of heat is most noxious, 
and overthrows all calculations for the due roasting of meat. 

M. Brillat-Savarin pronounced on est lie rotisseur ; in this 
he does not show his usual wisdom, for an eye on the clock 
will supply the lack of an instinctive knowledge of time. 

Roasting properly conducted is the most scientific and 
wholesome, and on that score the most economical mode of 
dressing meat. 

Baking naked meat at a high temperature is a feeble 
imitation, and the way cooks have of baking first and then 
browning the outside so completely reverses the needful order 
of the required processes that it may be designated a fraud. 
Baked meat is ill-flavoured and indigestible from the satura- 
tion of the substance with empyreuma ; but it is not so when 
the temperature is moderate, and when the materials are 
further defended from it by a layer of some bad conductor of 
heat, such as a thick pie-dish, or a crust, or a coat of clay (as 
practised by the gipsies). No empyreuina, or product of 
charring, is then formed, and the fat and gravy oozing out 
assist in the cooking. The process goes on even after the dish 
is taken out of the oven if it is kept hot by being enveloped 
in a thick flannel, or placed in one of Silver's Norwegian 
cooking-boxes. The ' Cornish pasty ' is the most perfect dinner 
that a labourer, or sportsman, or artist can have brought to 
his midday rendezvous. Meat, or fish, and potatoes, or any- 
thing, in short, that the taste or purse dictates, are enveloped 
in a thick solid crust, baked slowly, and then packed in several 
layers of woollen. The basketful will keep warm for hours, 
and is the ne plus ultra of out-door refreshment. 

Vegetables and fruit demand the same slow treatment. 
For a large party apple or gooseberry pie should be baked aU 
night in an old-fashioned red dairy pan. 

Eggs should not be used, or at any rate very sparingly, in 
bakes ; for, submitted to heat for a long period, their albumen 
becomes more and more tough and insoluble. 



THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 91 

Bapid toiling has in a minor degree the same case-harden- 
ing effect on the meat as roasting ; but the interior albumen 
seems by this process more hardened and less digestible. In 
boiling a joint the heat should be kept up for five or six 
minutes. Then it should be cooled down by the addition of 
three pints of cold water for each gallon of boiling water, and 
retained at that heat.^ 

In boiling fish the use of sea- water, or of hard water, or 
the addition of salt to the water, makes the fiesh firmer and 
retains the flavour in the interior ; but in making stock for 
sottchees the softer the water the better. 

Mutton is best boiled in hard water, for the same reason 
as fish. 

Slow hoiling makes, it is trae, a nourishing soup, but con- 
verts the muscular fibre into a mass of hard strings, which, 
eaten or not eaten, are in nine cases out of ten equally wasted. 
They are to be found in the faeces, exhibiting under the micro- 
scope all the beautiful transverse striae of their original state, 
unaffected by their intestinal journey. 

The utility of Sowps and Broths depends on several circum- 
stances which modify the advantages accruing from their 
liquid state. In the first place, heat seems to have an effect in 
some degree proportioned to the period of application to 
albumen, rendering it more or less insoluble, at the same time 
that, to a delicate palate, there is a decided loss of flavour. 
Thus soups and stews which are kept too hot are wholesome 
enough during the first few hours, may be digested at a 
railway refreshment-room for some hours after, but on the 
second or third day give the rash stranger, beguiled into a 
cheap French dinner, an almost certain diarrhoea. Though 

' That is to say, reduced with water at 50° from 212° Fahrenheit to 
170°, or to the extent of 42°. The formula in the text is given as a 
specimen of the best, perhaps the only, mode of directing cooks how to re- 
duce temperature. The female mind abhors meters of all kinds, and degrees 
Fahrenheit mentioned in our orders would infallibly entail their rejection 
as only fit for hospital nurses. Medical men cannot too cautiously avoid 
introducing anything which sounds too scientific into the kitchen. 



92 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

finely divided, the minute fragments of muscular fibre seem 
to be, individually, rendered insoluble by continued heat. 

Then again a high temperature too long continued extracts 
from the meat all its gelatine — an innutritions material which 
envelopes the fragments of fibrin in the stomach, and prevents 
their being acted upon. And this is all the more likely when 
an over-anxious cook tries to make the soup what she calls 
' good' (that is, strong, stifi*, and gluey) for invalids. 

Again, if the soup is, by straining, made clear and orna- 
mental, a great deal of the most valuable part of it is removed ; 
the houilli, if not over-boiled, contains the chief constituents 
wanted as nourishment. 

Beef tea and broth should not be kept hot, but allowed 
to cool when not immediately wanted, and heated up at 
demand. It may be warmed, but never prepared in the sick 
room, for nothing sets an invalid against food so much 
as the sight and smell of cooking. If a nurse can rig up 
a fire or a gas-stove for her own use in an adjoining room, 
well and good ; but if not, she had better descend to the 
kitchen. In summer, when a fire is undesirable, she may em- 
ploy Silver's patent Norwegian cooking-box, in which cooking 
is done by hot water. But it is rather an expensive mode of 
attaining a simple object, unless she were to keep one as part 
of her stock-in-trade. 

Soup is rendered a more complete nutriment by the addi- 
tion of vegetables. Thus, the * Administration de V Assistance 
puhlique^ in France, adopted, by the advice of a commission of 
physiologists and physicians, a formula for the preparation of 
bouillon embracing this addition. Keduced to approximate 
English measures the recipe is as follows : — 

Water 4 pints. 



Meat (with bone) .... 
Carrots, turnips, and other vegetables 
t^aiu • . . • • . 
Boast onions 



2 lbs. 
6 ozs. 
I oz. 
|oz.» 



* Cyr, De V Alimentation^ p. 49. 



THE PREPARATION OF FOOD. 93 

An improvement on this recipe is to boil the vegetables 
separately, as they require a bigher temperature, and for a 
longer time, than meat. 

It may be safely commended for adoption in * soup- 
kitchens.' 

Boiling is a form of cookery peculiarly adapted to vege- 
tables. Dr. Paris * remarks that it deprives them of a con- 
derable portion of contained air, which is injnrious to diges- 
tion when in excess. Potatoes should be steamed or boiled in 
their skins, and not so long as for them to fall to pieces from 
the breaking of the starch granules ; when skinned they ought 
to retain their shape. On the other hand, the cabbage tribe 
and carrots can hardly be boiled too long. It is essential 
that soft water should be employed, and it is the securing this 
that makes steaming such an advisable form of boiling, for 
staam is of course soft water. 

Particular care should be taken that vegetables, whether 
for soup or not, are thoroughly boiled soft all the way through, 
and dried on a cullender. All farinaceous aliments resist 
digestion unless they have been raised to 212° sufficiently 
long to rupture the capsules of the starch. 

A certain quantity of oleaginous matter renders vegetables, 
in which there is much combined water, less massive in the 
stomach. Thus roast potatoes are better for the addition of 
some fresh butter, and mashed potatoes for a little cream 
beaten up with the 2'>uree after it has been passed through a 
sieve ; and, again, milky rice pudding does not collect into a 
lump as plain rice is apt to do. In making the latter dish up 
for baking, eggs should never be used. Baked white of egg 
is the most insoluble form of albumen possible. 

Plain boiled rice should always have a little fresh cold 
butter mixed up with it. In that way it will serve as an 
accompaniment of meat at dinner. 

Steudng has the advantage over dry baking, that there is no 
charring or formation of empyreumatic gases ; and the heat is. 

* Ci/chptpdia of Practical Medicine, i. 676. 



94 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

not too great. The principal objection to it is that the meat 
often gets saturated with the fat gravy, and is too rich for 
some persons. 

It is, however, not nearly so liable to this objection as 
Frying. Unless conducted with great skill, this process coats 
each particle of the food with a medium difficult of penetration 
by the gastric juice, or it is oily, whereas the secretion of the 
stomach is watery. Butyric acid and other rancid and 
empyreumatic educts are formed, and disturb digestion, pro- 
ducing not rarely flatulence and heart-bum. The art consists 
in frying * lightly,' as cooks phrase it, that is to say, quickly 
and evenly, and with constant motion, so that the high heat 
required does not char any part. For those who do not 
dislike the flavour of oil it is a more manageable medium than 
butter, and generally turns out a lighter dish. Good Lucca 
or Provence oil is also less likely to be sophisticated than 
bought butter. 

Hashi/ng is not to be encouraged. From the two processes 
that are gone through the animal fibre is too much hardened 
to be readily digested. Cold meat is wholesomer, and may 
be made as palatable with mayonnaise or some such sauce. K 
it must be done, at least let a water-bath (hain-marie) be 
used. 

Marinatmg, that is, baking in vinegar and water with 
layers of bay-leaves and pepper-corns, is suitable for the more 
oily kinds offish.* 

Broiling imparts a peculiar tenderness to the meat by the 
rapid hardening or browning of the surface preventing the 
evaporation of the juice. It is, in fact, roasting applied to 
small portions of meat. Tradition commends it as a suitable 
cookery for the meat of persons in training ; but perhaps in 
no sort of dish does it shine so much as in fish. 

In the preparation of mixed dishes and in seasoning it should 

* Another mode of wholesomely cooking oily fish, such as sprats, pil- 
chards, or herrings, is to stew or bake them in a deep dish in layers, with a 
laver of breadcrumbs between each. 



THE PEEPARATION OF FOOD. 95 

be a general and almost universal rnle that the different ingre- 
dients shonld be as far as possible cooked separately. The 
reason is obvious — each article, from its texture, requires for 
its perfection to be submitted to heat for a different period. 
Too long exposure destroys its flavour and solubility. To take 
feoniliar examples — an egg if made into a custard, or just 
•coagulated, is tasty and wholesome ; but if baked for half an 
hour in a pudding it becomes useless as an article of food. 
Spices lose nearly all their flavour, while retaining all their 
irritating qualities, if mixed in a dish before boiling ; yet if 
heated up separately and for a shorter time they retain it, 
and will suffice in much smaller quantity. Soup, on the 
other hand, requires less boiling than the vegetables which 
are usually put in it. If boiled together the latter are there- 
fore sure to be underdone. If baked in a tartlet, jam loses all 
fruity odour and taste, and sinks into the paste. It should 
be only barely heated afber the paste is done. Just warm an 
oyster, it is sapid and digestible ; bake it in a beef- steak pie, 
it is leathery and insoluble. It ought to be put in cold, just 
before the dish comes to table. Onions require long cooking ; 
but the other seasoning herbs usually used in broths should 
not be sprinkled in till a late IStage of the boiling. 

The effects of salting are often misunderstood. It is well 
known that living exclusively on salted meat produces scurvy, 
and it is imagined that the injury to the system arises from the 
saline matter thus introduced into it. Such, however, is not 
the case. Chloride of sodium is such a large constituent of our 
blood that it cannot possibly be noxious. The unwholesome- 
ness of salt meat as an article of diet depends on its deflcieu- 
cies, not on its excesses ; it has lost, according to Baron Lie- 
big's calculation, half its nutritive value by the removal of its 
fluids and salts by the brine, and the dried-up remnant is 
difficult of solution. Soaking in water may soften and remove 
the salt, but it does not restore its nutritive value. 

Smoking and Drying are not quite so injurious to the 
texture of the flesh as salting. It would seem that in the 



96 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

latter the hardening process goes on eontinnonsiT ; in fad, the 
salt remains and continnonslj extracts the aqneons consti- 
tuents. Bat the drying takes place once for all, and the 
article gets no worse when it is once prepared, nntil decom- 
position occurs. These modes of preparation seem peculiarly 
adapted for fish, which naturally perish so* readily, and which 
are more injured than even meat by salting. 

Tinned meat cannot make any claim to a recommendation 
except on economical grounds. When heated np for the table 
it is too much cooked to be digestible or pleasant. It is best 
eaten cold with some of its own jelly and salad or mayonnaise 
sauce. 

The process of * tinning ' meat is well known to consist 
in the expulsion of air from the material by means of heat, 
and it is to be feared that so long as this procedure alone is 
employed the injury from the excess of temperature is un- 
avoidable. The aim of the inventor should be to eflEect the 
same object by the aid of air-pumps in the cold. 

Ice seems to promise more fisivourable results than the last- 
named device for preserving meat during its conveyance over 
long distances — from the overstocked producer to the hungry 
consumer. The attempt has hitherto failed from several 
avoidable causes, but the Committee of the Society of Arts, 
who have taken up the matter, are sanguine of final success in 
putting the Australian fresh-meat butcber in direct communi- 
cation with the English labourer. It should be remembered 
that meat which has been thus preserved requires immediate 
cooking, as it goes bad quickly from the change into a higher 
temperature of air. It should, if possible, be brought home in 
an ice-box, and kept there till wanted. 

Vegetables preserved by drying undergo an interstitial 
hardening of the tissues, which renders tbem insoluble in the 
saliva, as may be observed by their want of flavour. They 
are inferior to fresh vegetables for use in preventing scurvy— 
indeed they seem inferior to lime juice for that purpose — so 
that they cannot be wholesome for the healthy. It is a fact) 



THE PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 97 

not explained as yet, that long transport, especially by sea, 
however rapid, has a somewhat similar deleterious eflfect on 
vegetables ; so that we do not get the advantage which might 
have been anticipated from the increased rapidity of communi- 
cation with distant supplies. A notable instance is that of 
Algerian peas. 

The preservation of food, by excluding the air by means of 
oil, is a subject which requires further experimenting upon. 
Delicate fish, such as sardines, for example, can be kept in 
this way for a long time; and from time immemorial the 
method has been adopted for wine in Italy. A thin layer of 
fresh oil in the neck of the flask obviates the necessity of a 
cork in wine not inteiided to travel, and is much more effi- 
cient, preventing even the lightest and most perishable liquors 
from turning sour. Potted meats and sausages are often 
judiciously preserved by a layer of lard, which seems effectual 
in retaining moisture and preventing decomposition. Why 
do we not apply the same principle to the storing of jams, 
gooseberries, plums, &c., for winter use ? 

Preservation with sugar has the disadvantage gf intro- 
ducing an ingredient which is cloying to the appetite, a mask 
to the natural flavour of the vegetable, and, moreover, apt to 
generate an excess of acid in the stomach. 

As a rule forced vegetables and fruit out of season are 
not to be recommended. The natural period of its perfection 
is long enough for us to enjoy each, and then a change is as 
wholesome as it is pleasant. To bring them to table sooner 
gratifies merely a vulgar ostentation or impatient gluttony, 
and receives its just punishment in a premature weariness. 

Certain articles of diet yield their savours best when their 
valuable ingredients are got out in the form of an Extract, 
An illustration of this may be found in the Chiatemala 
mode of preparing Coffee and GJiocolate,^ which is as follows: — 

* Coffee berries are used that have been stored dry one year. 
Taking enough for one or two days' consumption, they rub 

> Dictated by Mrs. Osbert Salvin, 

H 



98 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

them in a linen cloth, and lay them in the sun before roasting. 
This operation is always performed by the lady of the house 
over a quick charcoal fire, in an iron cylinder, which she 
keeps turning for ten or fifteen minutes, till the berries are 
roasted on all sides. The most esteemed bean is the * pea- 
berry' (which bears the round monocotyledonous form, 
instead of the dicotyledonous), in consequence of its browning 
more evenly. It is not a difierent species of coffee, but an 
accidental variety more common on some trees than others. 
At the critical moment of perfection the berries are emptied 
into a basket and stirred round to prevent their further con- 
coction. They are then ground, and a very strong liquid 
extract is made from them by infusion in hot water. A com- 
mon percolating coffee-pot will serve this purpose and save 
straining. A dessert spoonful of this essence, with either 
boiling water or boiling milk poured on it, forms a cup which 
is the invariable hon-houche of every meal. 

* Cacao-trees grow wild, and are also cultivated round some 
Indian villages. The berries are dried in the sun, and an 
Indian woman generally comes to your hacienda to make them 
into chocolate. Kneeling before her mill, consisting of a 
smooth curved surface with a heavy stone roller, she grinds 
the kernels up with an equal weight of sugar, and flavours 
with cinnamon or vanilla, the latter a wild product of the 
forest. It is ground three times over, and when in a smooth 
paste is cut into oblong square pieces, each enough for one 
cup. It is then dried on a plate over a charcoal fire. When 
required for use it is dissolved in boiling water or milk, and a 
thick froth worked on the top of each cup with a swizle stick 
or whisk. The cup is often filled up with milk-cheese cut 
into small dies.' 

A principle of rational cookery much overlooked by pro- 
fessors of the culinary art is that each article of diet should 
be so prepared that its own natural flavours and other 
characteristics should be enhanced, instead of being masked 
or destroyed. Condiments and sauces should be so moderately 



THE PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 99 

tised as never to be a prominent feature, and then shonld bo 
€0 blended and balanced as to make it difficult to identify 
them. There seems to me nothing Utopian in the idea of an 
nniversal sance adapted to all sorts of animal food, making 
them all more savonry, and more wholesome at the same time.* 
There is ample scope for individual taste in the selection of 
the variety suited to the user's palate. 

One is almost ashamed to mention cleanliness as an 
essential in cookery, the idea of the contrary condition in 
eatables is so repulsive ; but cooks do not seem aware how 
often their dishes are unpalatable, and therefore unwholesome, 
solely from being prepared in a vessel which has a disagreeable 
flavour remaining in it. Soap is sometimes employed iu 
washing pots instead of soda ; and the taste of the rank train- 
oil seems to adhere to the metal and to infect a succession of 
otherwise excellent material; and so adheres the odour of 
onions, and of severial other condiments, to a steel knife. The 
use of printed paper to stand glass and crockery upon in 
cupbo^ds is also objectionable, as the oily effluvium from 
fresh printing-ink is very rank, and acrid, and penetrating, as 
our patients who suffer from hsemorrhoids well know to their 
cost. 

Fish is an article very often spoilt by injudicious endea- 
vours to make it palatable. * Melted butter' in reality 
requires the hand of a first-rate artist, whereas every kitchen- 
maid thinks she can concoct it. Unless M. Gouffe's instruc- 
tions have been followed to the letter it is best avoided 
altogether. A few drops of Chili vinegar, or black pepper 
vinegar, or elder vinegar, or Worcester sauce, or a slice of 

' This is an old ambition; see Pepys' Diary, Feb. 10, 1661-9. The 
Duke of York * did mightily magnify his sauce, which ho did then eat 
"with everything, and said it was the best universal sauce in the world, it 
being taught him by the Spanish Ambassador ; made of some parsley and 
a dry toast, beat in a mortar together with vinegar, salt, and a little pepper. 
He eats it with flesh, or fowl, or fish. ... By and by did taste it, and liked 
it mightily.' 

h2 



100 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

lemon, or a sauce made by boiling pepper and salt in plain 
water with a few favourite herbs, assist the digestion of the 
fish, whereas greasj sauces impede the process chemically and 
mechanically. 

Grilling does for fish that which roasting or boiling 
does for meat, and is a commendable mode of prepai'ation, 
especially as it obviates the temptation to take sauce. 

Those professional lectures are usually the most instruc- 
tive which take up some universally known and simple matter 
relating to a subject, and use it in illustration of the principles 
involved in the art to be taught. To exemplify the elements 
of sanatory cookery perhaps nothing could be more fitly chosen 
by a lecturer than the cooking of an egg. First for the 
name : our great grandmothers (if proverbs register language 
truly) talked of * roasting ' an egg — ^we call the same process 
* boiling ;' marking the fact that there is no essential difierenoe 
between the two, the end of both being the same, namely, the 
bringing albumen into a mechanical condition more suitable 
for the digestive viscera than when raw. Then an egg, more 
clearly than any other meat, exhibits the virtues of freshness, 
and the vices of defects in that quality. Boil an egg warm 
from the nest, and you recognise it by its creamy, lightly- 
coagulated, eminently digestible form of albumen. Even by 
next day it is less perfect, and steadily degenerates in value, 
till it becomes the most hateful of poisons. Here may be 
pointed out the importance of selection according to external 
obvious qualities. 

The spread of chemical changes hy contact may also be 
illustrated by the fact observed by Dr. Burdon Sanderson, 
that fresh eggs get rapidly musty when placed in the same 
basket as bad ones.^ 

Next should come a scientific picture of the coagulation of 
albumen by heat. Albumen begins to coagulate at 140° very 
slowly ^, but does not form a solid mass with rapidity under the 

' British Medical Journal^ Jan. 16, 1875. 

2 Simon's Chemistry (Lay's translation), vol. i. p. 16. 



THE PREPAEATION OF FOOD. 101 

temperature of nearly 212°. Till it has formed a solid mass 
it is easily permeable by heat, and the central parts are solidified, 
therefore, eqnaUy with the exterior ; whereas coagulated albn- 
men is a bad conductor of high temperature, and if the out- 
side sets quickly and firmly the inside remains light and 
8emi-solid« Boil an egg at a slow heat, and it is not cooked 
till hard all through ; put it into quite boiling water, and the 
white sets soon and leaves the albumen of the yolk soft. This 
illustrates the rules given a few pages back about applying 
at first a high heat in roasting and boiling, and afterwards 
moderating it, when the hardened sur&ce has enclosed the 
deeper parts as in a box. The sJiell of the egg may be a text 
to demonstrate how in baking and frying the external media, 
the cmst and the oil, retain the whole of the substance, so that 
there is no loss during these economical culinary operations, 
though the meat is less wholesome. 

Then, that this loss of wholesomeness is due to the satura- 
tion of the article of diet with the products of dry distillation^ 
and also that enhancement of natural savour, solubility, 
and wholesomeness run in parallel lines, may be illustrated 
from the observations of Beaumont on the different times 
occupied in the gastric digestion of eggs in several conditions. 
He found, for example : — 

Hours Minutes 
Eggs, whipped and diluted, occupied in digestion . 1 30 
„ fresh raw „ ,,.20 

,^. fresh roasted „ „ . 2 15 

„ soft boiled (or poached) „ ,,.30 

,', hard boiled „ „ . 3 30 

„ fried „ ., . 3 30 

It may be observed that this is just the order in which 
ihey are tasty; that is to say, the degree in^hich they come 
with facility into contact with the sensory nerves distributed 
through the mucous membrane ; so that pleasure and duty 
here, as usually in natural operations, become one. 

General rules for the preservation of food are somewhat 
dangerous. They are too much practised for the mere display 



s- 



102 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

of art. The fact is that food is always the less wholesome for- 
storing, even if its taste is not injuriously affected; and 
artificial preservation should only be used when it cannot be^ 
avoided. The principle consists in excluding the oxidisin 
air and moisture. In dry goods this is done by keeping them 
dry and closely covered up. Let them, however, be kept in a 
different cupboard from malodorous goods, such as candles 
and soap, or they will catch the objectionable flavour. With 
most fresh organic substances a different treatment is necessary 
to the attainment of the same end. They contain in their 
texture itself sufficient luoisture and air to oxidize them into 
decomposition, and the more stagnant these are, the more 
surely do the chemical actions result. It is necessary, there- 
fore, to let them have free ventilation ; their external surfiice 
should be frequently wiped, or at least blown over by a 
current of air, so as to let the old moisture escape and fresh 
be absorbed. Thus meat should hang exposed in an open 
larder, and be often dried. Lemons should be purchased in 
the summer, and suspended in nets for use at the time when 
they are dear. Onions and garlic should be strung up in an 
outhouse (not the larder). Herbs should be dried in the 
wind, out of the sun, put each into a separate paper bag, and 
hung up in the kitchen. Where apples and pears and chest- 
nuts are stored the window should be left open and the fruit 
frequently turned. Too much draught makes vegetables 
withy, so they should be laid on a stone floor behind the 
door. Potatoes are best stacked in dry sand. 

The date when each article is laid by should be written 
down. 

Eggs are an exception to the usual rule respecting organic 
substances. They cannot be treated in the same way by 
reason of their structure, yet it is impossible to avoid keeping 
them for culinary purposes. They are best preserved by 
being washed over with a solution of gum and packed in a 
square box of bran, which is to be turned over a quarter of 
a turn every day. 



THE. PREPARATION OF FOOD. 103 

Saltis pojpuli est svmma lex, and a legislator ought to take 
care that no habits established by law or custom should 
convert the boimtifxil gifts of the earth from blessings into 
corses. Every discouragement ought to be put in the way 
of spoiling food by attempts at false economy. It is practi- 
cally proved by a writer, who has received a prize from the 
Italian Government for his researches, that one of the most 
noxious endemics of modem times, the pellagra of J^orth 
Italy, is due (as stated before in Chapter II.) to the mould 
which grows on damaged maize. And he traces the damaging 
of the maize to the universal practice handed down from 
savage times when coin was unknown, of the landlord re- 
ceiving his rent in kind, by taking a share of the crop. Of 
course the tenant on this * metaia ' system hides away some of 
the maize in damp holes and corners ; it grows musty, the 
fowls sicken upon it, the donkey rejects it, so he eats it 
himself, and persuades his family that the nutty flavour com- 
municate by the spcres of the cryptogam gives a zest to the 
fine old bread. ^ It would be a noble ambition for an Italian 
statesman to teach his country the advantages to both parties 
of long leasehold tenure. The Lombards taught England 
and Flanders book-keeping by double entry, and it would be 
a glorious repayment to show them the wealth, the health, the 
education, and the honesty which flow naturally out of long 
leases. To put down the pellagra by this means would alone 
be worth several millions a year. 

It would be worth inquiry whether the origin of leprosy 
and some other allied diseases may not be traced to parasitic 
growths on ill-garnered or diseased cereals. They still haunt 
Mauritius, British India, Spain, Norway, and a few other 
grain-eating lands, while they are unknown to us carnivorous 
islanders ; and in several of the afiected places there are not 
a few temptations to the bad storing of vegetable food, which 
the judicious action of Government might remove. Moreover, 
the tendency to gangrene of the extremities displayed in these 

' L(mibro80 stdla Pellagra. Torino, 1870. 



104 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

chronic endemics is very like that whicli follows the secondary^ 
poisoning of other toxic sporidia. 

One great sonrce of the danger from these apparently- 
harmless moulds is that their action is not immediate, and so 
with difl&cnlty to be detected ; whereas such poisonous crypto- 
gams as the black spur, or ergot, which grows on rye, are 
guarded by the violent spasms they immediately cause from 
being continued long enough to produce the gangrene of the 
limbs induced by their protracted use. 

The ripening or due maturing of wine is a matter of the 
highest importance to the health of the consumer. To drink 
it when undergoing that slow secondary fermentation which 
is necessary to its perfection produces a corresponding fer- 
mentation in the intestines ; and to drink it when it is past 
its prime, and is lapsing into vinegar, loads the system with 
an excess of acid in the worst possible stage, namely, that of 
formation. Fortunately the most anxious part of ripening is 
superintended by the merchant, whose daily visits, ther- 
mometer in hand, enable him safely to eflTect the proper 
changes of temperature and dryness, to move his precious 
charges from attic to ground-floor, from ground-floor to sub- 
terranean cellar, to refill evaporating casks, to bottle at -the 
right instant, to re-bottle, and to re-cork when required, and 
thus to produce a liquid as superior to what he purchased as 
a brilliant is to a diamond just picked up at the diggings. 
All that his customer has to do is to keep it for such a time 
as suits his convenience, to take advantage of finding a good 
article by laying in a sufficient stock, and to save his pocket 
by not having to pay the interest which the merchant annually 
adds to the price. 

Authorities on the subject of cellaring have naturally 
begun at the beginning, and prescribed requisites as to aspects 
and construction which alarm the anxious householder, whose 
limited arrangements make him fear that he can never do 
justice to the fruit of the grape. But in reality he has nothing 
to do with the true ripening. All that he is concerned with 



THE. PKEPARATION OF FOOD. 1 05 

5s the preservation, whicli a very little exercise of common 
sense will secure. He knows that chemical changes and 
decompositions are hastened by frequent variations of v^armth 
4ind cold, and therefore the principal point is to secure for his 
bins an even temperature. He knows that in this climate 
variations of temperature depend mainly on moisture, so that 
no great technical information is required to teach him to 
keep his cellar dry. There should be at one end an air-hole 
into the free air, guarded from the entrance of water, and a 
few holes in the door, with corks to fit them, at the other end, 
opening on a draughty passage. With a common thennometer 
he can judge when to open and close these. Should the walls 
and corks become slimy and mouldy more openings are 
required. Mould and dry-rot are venerable and interesting 
growths, but they damage the wine and prove the ventilation 
deficient. If there is any bad smell in a cellar, or actual 
collection of water, not only will the wines sufier, but likely 
enough the inhabitants of the house also, and the drainage 
should be put in the hands of an honest builder. In towns, 
where ventilation is difficult, some owners of valuable wines 
lay on a small jet of gas, by which a constant dry warmth is 
secured at small cost, and they say it is well worth while. 
Sprinkling the walls with quicklime removes damp, mould, 
slugs, and all those forms of life that love decay. 

A cellar should, if possible, be divided by a door into two 
parts, of which one should be kept warmer than the other ; for 
the products of hot countries, such as Madeira and the Pen- 
insular vintages, are benefited by a higher temperature than- 
those of France or the Rhine. These latter retain their 
qualities best in a cool, though dry atmosphere. 

Take care that the bottles do not touch the walls, which 
are almost always damped by the earth at the back. A thick 
layer of laths and dry sawdust should lie at the bottom of 
each bin. If it grows damp and rotten, renew it. 

When moving wines, rebottle those which have deposited 
much sediment. 



106 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

If you drink light wines from the cask, pour in a flask of 
sweet olive oil, which, floating on the surface, will exclude 
the action of the air, and entirely prevent acescence. 

It is convenient to drink light wines in this way, as they 
benefit much less by storing in bottle than the richer sorts. 

For bottling it is certainly advisable to employ a cooper ; 
but do not fail to inspect the corks he uses. Eeject all that 
are friable, haVe large holes, or any black marks of the outside 
bark upon them. They should be newly cut and supple. 

If you employ home labour for the purpose, do not permit 
shot to be used in cleansing the bottles : it frequently remains 
behind and poisons the wine with acetate of lead, which 
cannot be detected by the taste. Gravel is quite safe, but the 
safest thing is a piece of iron chain (or gold if you like), 
•which is sure to be shaken out. 

If your cellar has the slightest damp in it, see that tho 
mixture of wax and rosin with which the bottles are sealed 
covers the end of the glass as well as the cork. 

Keep red wine as near horizontal as possible till you 
decant or drink it. For Burgundy especially this treatment 
is essential, and it is best to place it on table in one of the 
sloping baskets made ornamental for the purpose. 

All red wines and the stronger white wines, such as 
^Madeira, should be slightly raised in temperature before they 
are put on table. The best practice is to get them up several 
hours before they are wanted, and leave them in a warm 
room. This final touch to the ripening generates the fruity 
ethers on which the flavour depends. It may be observed to 
have the same effect on apples, pears, and most late autumnal 
fruit, which should always have their skins warmed before 
they are eaten. 



107 



CHAPTER IV. 

DIGESTION. 

The most recent systematic teaclier of physiology defines- 
digestion as * the process by which food is reduced to a form 
in which it can be absorbed by the intestines and taken np by 
the blood-vessels.' ' The process consists in the aliments- 
being passed along a canal, thence called the * alimentary 
canal/ running through the body, where it comes in contact 
with fluids oozing out from various glands, which mixing with 
it dissolve it, and reduce it to a homogeneous juice or * chyme/ 

The more perfectly and quickly this end is attained, the 
more healthy is the digestion. 

These fluids resemble one another in being watery, saline^ 
and albuminous, like the serum of the blood, so that they are 
well adapted for passing readily through the mucous mem- 
branes by endosmose. They pass in, as they passed out,. 
freely, and carry in with them the nutriment prepared in the 
alimentary canal. But there the resemblance ceases ; and the- 
differences of the fluids poured from the different glands are 
very marked, and their actions on the various constituents of 
the diet are strikingly specialized. 

1. The Saliva, secreted from the glands of the mouth, is. 
alkaline, glairy, and adhesive, and possesses the power of con- 

* Dalton's Human Physiology, fifth ed^jb. chap. tI., where will bo found 
& complete resurrU of the scattered contributions of others up to the present 
time, often illustrated and criticised l)y the light of the author's original 
investigations on this subject. An old resume of mine, entitled Digestion 
and its Derangements (London, I806), is out of date as well as out of print. 



108 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

verting very rapidly the nnabsorbable starcli into soluble and 
absorbable sugar. 

2. The gastric juice secreted in the thin layer of gland 
which lines the cavity of the stomach is acid, and can dissolve 
80 long as it is acid the albumen and fibrin of flesh food. 

3. The pancreatic juice is again alkaline,^ very full of albu- 
minous organic matter, and capable of exerting a peculiar 
influence on fiitty matters. It disintegrates them, and reduces 
them to a state of emulsion, so that the mixture of fat in the 
watery fluid it floats in is white and opaque. In this creamy 
state it is capable of soaking through the mucous membrane 
and passing into the blood, by the same way as the starch and 
fibrin. 

4. The hile is very difierent from any of the above fluids 
in reaction and contents, and it does not appear to possess the 
power of dissolving starch by turning it into sugar, or of dis- 
solving fibrin, or of emulsioning fat in any degree equal to 
pancreatic juice, though it is itself of a soapy nature, as is 
shown by the use of ox-bile by carpet cleaners to remove 
grease-spots. It is neither acid or alkaline, but it possesses 
considerable bleaching powers, and arrests decomposition in 
animal substances. In this latter capacity it is highly con- 
ducive to our comfort by obviating the natural odour of the 
excretions, which is so nauseous to jaundiced patients and 
others whose bile fails. With all this it does not clearly 
appear how any of its known physical properties can aid in 
the constructive assimilation of nutriment. Yet aid it does, 
most decidedly. If in consequence of accident or disease 
the flow of bile into the alimentary canal is wholly cut off, the 
animal rapidly emaciates, and dies starved. Even when the 
eupply of bile is only partially diminished, as in the instance 
of some of our patients, there is a marked deficiency of nutri- 
tion, shown in loss of weight and aneemia. Now this would 
not happen if bile were a mere excrementitious fluid contain- 

* Dr. Dobell questions its alkalinity. Perhaps it varies with the state 
of the body. 



DIGESTION. 109 

ing ingredients resnlting from the disintegration of the tissues, 
and designed merely for their removal from the body. It has 
assimilative functions to perform beyond the simple drainage 
of the blood, though what those functions are can be expressed 
only in the vaguest terms at present, and the most prudent 
and most recent physiologists decline to give a definite opinion 
on the complete uses of the bile. 

This is not the place to speak of the important agency of 
the liver in destructive assimilation, inasmuch as that is mainly 
independent of the formation of bile at all. Nor has the secre- 
tion of bile, as a digestive juice, anything to do with the sugar- 
making function of the hepatic parenchyma. 

5. The intestinal juice is secreted alkaline, and possesses, like 
the saliva, the power of converting starch into sugar; but, 
unlike that fluid, does not lose its power in presence of an 
acid. It has a solvent power over albumen inferior chemi- 
caUy to that of the stomach, but stronger in this respect, that 
it is not checked by the bile or pancreatic juice. 

So then a meal, as it passes downwards, is irrigated first 
by a salivary fluid which dissolves or fits for absorption a great 
portion of its starchy constituents. It is next irrigated by a 
more dilute fluid, which dissolves its meaty part. Then the 
fat is washed out of it by the stream of pancreatic juice. And 
simultaneously the bUe is poured on it in a continuous stream^ 
which makes it, in some unexplained way, more easy to be 
taken up as nutriment. Afterwards the intestinal juice, 
oozing out in small quantities throughout a long canal, seema 
fitted to make up the deficiencies of any of the previous 
solvent acts. 

The daily quantities of these fluids, as estimated from the 
results of Drs. Bidder and Schmidt's classical experiments, 
may be reckoned to equal the following : — 

Of saliva 3 J pints. 

Of gastric juice 12 m 

Of bile 3-2 „ 

Of pancreatic juico IJ >» 

Of intestinal juico i » 



110 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

making in all nearly three gallons. Of this ninety-six per 
cent, is water, of which only so much passes away in the 
stools as prevents them from being inconveniently solid. The 
rest, therefore, that is to say two gallons and a half, is restored 
to the blood by absorption. • 

The clearest notion we can gain of the bnsiness performed 
"by all this two dozen pints of water which exnde on the 
mncons membrane of the intestinal canal, and are by the same 
membrane taken up again, is by viewing them as a circulation. 
The stream is constantly going its rounds like an endless chain, 
finding and taking up inside the solid structure of the body sab- 
stances which ought to come out and be got rid of, finding 
outside nutriment which the body wants, and conveying it in. 

Truly, when a man contemplates with the eye of the 
reason this unceasing journey, this great current so entirely 
removed from the cognizance of our senses, he is at first con- 
founded with the novelty of the ideas it excites (ingenti motu 
shqyef actus aquanirri) and almost refoses to receive them. It 
is highly important, therefore, to bring it frequently before the 
mind till it becomes habitual, for there is no view of living 
phenomena so practically weighty for the medical man. 

In addition to this there is a quantity of fluid introduced 
as beverage. Water passes straight through the mucous 
membranes unchanged, and alcohol with a change of no 
weighty importance ; and dissolved in them are numerous 
minor substances not strictly dietetic, though valuable by 
acting pleasurably or medicinally on the nervous system. 

Rightly, then, has digestion been likened by an old chemist 
to a process of ' rinsing ; ' ^ all that is required is washed out 
of the alimentary substances, and the remains passed on to be 
got rid of along with the waste products of chemical life. 

Of the reason why these various secretions are able to 
digest the various constituents of our food we know absolutely 
nothing. We find an albuminous matter in saliva, and we 
-call it ^ i^tyalin^^ we find an albuminous matter in gastric 

* Lcthel-y on Foo'l, p. 48. 



DIGESTION. 1 1 1 

^uice, and we call it ^pepsin ; ' we find an albuminous matter in 
tlie pancreatic juioi, and we call it ^pancreatin ; ' but the only 
distinguisliing point about each is that it acts upon starch, or 
<U5ts upon flesh-meat, or acts upon fat, just as the fluid from 
whence it was concentrated acts. Ultimate chemical analysis 
merely shows their resemblances, and not their differences. 
-The nearest approach to a similar proceeding in nature is the 
operation of malting, where, aided by heat and moisture, 
starch is turned into sugar by the presence of * diastase ; * and 
it is remarkable that when albumen is artificially dissolved by 
gastric juice in the laboratory a peculiar odour somewhat 
like that of malting is given oflT. But here our information 
ceases ; there are in diastase no more points to distinguish it 
chemically from ordinary albumen than there are in pepsin or 
pancreatin. 

In bringing to bear upon dietetics the observations of 
physiologists, the main considerations the physician has to 
keep in view are the mechanical condition in which the food 
should be brought, the influence of its several solvents, and 
the times when they are ready to receive it. 

Chewing is the first provision made for securing a due 
mechanical condition. The perfection consists in so breaking 
up the mouthful that it should be as completely as possible 
permeated by the saliva. The object of this is in the case of 
meat to soften it in preparation for swallowing and for future 
fiolution in the stomach ; in the case of starchy matter to 
convert it into * glucose ' or sugar. 

With regard to the amount of chewing required by flesh 
food there is a good deal of popular misconception. Persons 
with bad, false, or tender teeth are often found to fancy that 
a vegetable diet is more suited to their imperfect power of 
mastication than an animal one ; and we not unfrequently see 
mothers instructing their children carefully to chew meat, and 
neglecting the same precaution in respect of vegetables. Physi- 
ology teaches an opposite caution. It is desirable, indeed, that 
the jaws should break up muscular fibre, lest it should 



112 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

perchance stick in the gullet and be certainly difficult of pene- 
tration by the gastric jnice in the stomach ; but to a vegetable 
aliment the performance of more important functions is due. 
It is stiU more indispensable that it should be broken up, for 
it has to be immediately acted upon ; and it is indispensable 
also that it should be detained in the mouth till enough saliva 
to convert its starch into glucose has been secreted. Com- 
plete mastication, important for both, is still more important 
for vegetable than for animal food; and the leisurely per- 
formance of the operation cannot be prudently omitted by a 
mixed eater. 

It may serve to remind us of this to reflect that while 
lions and tigers and wild dogs bolt their food, cows not only 
spend the greater part of the day over their nibbled meals, but 
give it a second chewing when in repose.. 

Doubts have been thrown (Dalton's Human Phjsiology^ 
page 116) upon the paramount importance in the conversion 
of starch into sugar of the action in the mouth ; but the fol- 
lowing easy experiment seems sufficiently convincing. Take 
some boiled starch, say in the shape of arrowroot, and heat it 
with potassio-tartrate of copper. There is no change in the 
blue colour of the salt. Now put some in the mouth, pre- 
viously washed out, and hold it a few moments only. When 
it is again heated with potassio-tartrate of copper the metal 
is precipitated, and shows by its brilliant yellow colour an 
abundant quantity of sugar. 

The saliva, then, begins to convert starch into sugar imme- 
diately ; and it is not slow to extend its operation to the whole 
mass submitted to it. A protraction of the foregoing experi- 
ment will show this. A mouthful of boiled arrowroot held in 
a healthy mouth for five minutes will show afterwards scarce 
a trace of starch remaining. 

It is true that the morsel is hardly ever allowed to remain 
in the mouth long enough for its complete conversion ; hardly 
ever is it suffix5ientiy boiled and chewed for the saliva to affect 
the whole of it. Much free starch and free saliva must be 



DIGESTION. 113 

carried down the oesopbagus. During its passage the action 
goes on, and as much saccharine transformation takes place in 
the latter as in the former locality. But in a minnte or two 
it mnst arrive at the stomach, and there the acidity of the 
viscns is said to pnt a stop to the saccharisation. On this 
arrest of the saUvary action by the presence of acid Dr. 
Dalton's opinion of its slight influence in digestive solution 
is gronnded. Nevertheless, once that the mass has passed 
through the pylorus its acidity is neutralised, the action of 
the remaining saliva recommences on the starch yet ud con- 
verted, and this action is reinforced by the intestinal juice. 

By the unconverted starch I mean not only that which 
was nnchanged on arriving at the stomach, but also a good 
deal set free since that stage of digestion. For, besides the 
saliva, there practically comes into play in the solution of 
starch that which I have described as temporarily arresting it, 
to wit, the gastric juice. Cookery, even when most efficient, 
rarely ruptures the whole -of the granules. Many escape in 
the best, and in bad cookery the majority escape. They can- 
not, therefore, be affected by the saliva till their albuminous 
envelope has been dissolved by the gastric juice. Then the 
amylaceous matter may be converted into sugar, either rapidly 
by the saliva present, or more slowly by the pancreatic and 
other iutestioal secretions. 

For the reduction of starch, so as to bring vegetable food 
into a condition capable of easy digestion, the first point is 
that the saUvary glands should secrete a sufficiency of fluid ; 
and this not merely at the time of mastication, but that they 
should go on supplying it as long as any starch remains 
unconverted. And it appears extremely probable that the 
gastric glands aid the future carrying on of the process, 
though the acidity of the stomach prevents its continuance at 
the time of its prevalence. 

Now the salivary glands in the healthiest persons are 
liable to derangement from purely external circumstances 
acting on the nervous system. Temporary emotion affects them 

I 



114 GENERAL DIETETICa 

iemporarilj, and chronic emotion affects them chronicalljr. 
We all are familiar with the dry lips of the coward, the lover, 
the pitiful, and how the tongue cleaves to the roof of the 
mouth when pain is endured, or when bad news is brought. 
* Bread eaten in sorrow * can hardly be swallowed, so long it 
takes to moisten the morsel. Bodily extortion parches the 
throat. And, again, the slightest excess of alcohol exhibits 
its first action on the digestive viscera by diminishing the 
salivary secretion. It cannot be expected that meals of mixed 
food, swallowed when the body is under the influence of the 
circtLmstances quoted in illustration, should be dissolved, or 
nourish the tissues as they ought ; and there is nothing sur- 
prising in the fermentation of the undigested vegetables, and 
the formation of flatulence by the carbonic acid which results. 

Under the same circumstances, a portion of the solid meat 
remains undissolved, and is often thrown away unaltered by 
vomiting or diarrhoea ; for the stomach is influenced contempo- 
raneously with the month, as is clearly shown by the pro- 
verbial loss of appetite from mental canses. 

In this arrest of secretion alcohol comes in nseftil. It is 
an anaBsthetic, and prevents the actions of the nervous system 
upon the alimentary canal from being so deleterious as they 
have been shown naturally to be. A few teaspoonfxQs of good 
strong wine or dilute spirit will often restore the lost power of 
taking food, and is an instinctive shield against the snndry 
blows inflicted on digestion by the excitements of social life in 
the present regimen of the world. It is possible to imagine 
a state of society, as among the Pitcaim islanders, for ex- 
ample, where everybody was externally the better for taking 
no alcohol in any form ; but even in that instance the absti- 
nence does not seem to have lengthened life, and it is certain 
that in Europe it wonld shorten it for many of our most 
active and useful citizens. But yet, as mentioned just now, 
excess must be avoided as a pitfall, for the consequence of it 
is a worse state of things than the first. * What a tight-rope 
you paint the path of life ! * perhaps a reader will cry. Aye, 



DIGESTION. 1 16 

indeed, so it is ; and there is not a minnte of our threescore 
years and ten when we are secure from the easy possibility of 
deviations which may launch us nobody knows where. But 
nature has bestowed on us a balancing-pole, so well weighted 
"with reason and conscience, that unless it is wilfully thrown 
away we need not fear. Let self-restraint be the law of our 
acts, and we may take all the goods offered us by the beau- 
tifol world without risk. 

Equally important is the absorption of the sugar thus 
formed from the starch. In health a very great part is 
absorbed in the mouth and gullet, sometimes all, for chemists 
have great difficuliy in finding it in the stomach, unless it is 
swallowed in excess. Some of it is probably converted into 
the lactic acid, which aids the solution of flesh food, and the 
rest taken up as sugar by the intestines. Still, even in health, 
a good deal of both starch and sugar escape, and appear in 
the faeces. But in the catarrhal state the mucus which lines 
the membrane is, from its insolubility in water, an almost imper- 
meable impediment to osmosis, and arrests absorption in pro- 
portion to its quantity. Every one knows how easily mucus 
is formed by very slight external influences. 

It is clear, then, that for the easy digestion of starch the 
whole of the alimentary canal must be in a normal condition, 
and the nervous system not exhausted "by recent excessive 
use. 

The Mechanics of Digestion refer to the provision which is 
made for the food being duly brought into the sphere of action 
of the solvents described above. First comes Chewing, the 
importance of which, as a means of saturating the mass with 
saliva, has been already insisted upon. Here may be mentioned, 
further, the importance of its completeness, for the sake of 
reducing muscxdar fibre to a fine pulp, so that it may be 
quickly infiltrated by the gastric juice on its arrival in the 
stomach. 

* In the human subject the teeth combine the characters 

of the camivora and the herbivora. The incisors, four in 

i2 



116 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

number in each jaw, have, as in other instances, a cutting 
edge running from side to side. The canines, which are 
situated immediately behind the former, are much less promi- 
nent and pointed than in the camivora, and differ less in form 
from the incisors on the one hand and the first molars on the 
other. The molars again are thick and strong, and have 
comparatively flat surfaces, like those of the herbivora ; but, 
instead of presenting curvilinear ridges, are covered with more 
or less conical eminences, like those of the carnivora. In the 
human subject, therefore, the teeth are evidently adapted for 
a mixed diet, consisting of both animal and vegetable food. 
Mastication is here as perfect as it is in the herbivora, though 
less prolonged and laborious; for the vegetable substances 
used by man, as already remarked, are previously separated, 
to a great extent, from their impurities, and sofbened by cook- 
ing, so that they do not require for their mastication so 
extensive and powerful a triturating apparatus. Finally, 
animal substances are more completely masticated in the 
human subject than they are in the camivora, and their diges- 
tion is accordingly completed with greater rapidity.' ^ 

However much natural selection may have rendered 
stronger the surviving species of other animals, it has, in the 
case of the human teeth, proved injurious to the perfection of 
our race. Artists have, unhappily, taught us to see loveliness 
in button mouths, bud-hke lips, round dimpled chins, tiny 
pearly teeth, and to recognise aristocracy in hatchet faces. 
You take up a skull in one of the bone houses near old fields 
of battle (say at Hythe, where Pict and Briton, and others 
besides, grin so grimly at us), and you cannot enough admire 
the evenness, the firmness, the completeness of the set of half 
worn, yet quite sound teeth ; but you are fain to confess that 
to have a wife, or a son, or a daughter with a prominent 
square jowl like that would be a severe trial to your aesthetic 
feelings. You are incurably perverted by the mediseval 
association of moral purity and intellectual refinement with 

> Dalton's Physiology^ chap. vi. p. 109. 



DIGESTION. 117 

pitifiilly weak jawbones; and a big-moutlied, broad-nosed 
Helen would never have been the mother of your children — 
yet would she have saved you many a dentist's fee. Narrow 
jaws can hold but few teeth ; if the natural numbers come, 
some must be extracted, or else they crowd together, and 
decay from pressure ; and there is no feature which is so 
markedly hereditary as narrow jaws on the mother's side. 
There is no remedy against the multiplication of dentists 
except to bring big mouths into fashion. 

When, by the grinding machinery above described, the 
food has been reduced to a pulp it is easily embraced by the 
tabular muscles of the pharynx and oesophagus, and passed by 
their steady, wave-Hke motion downwards to the stomach ; the 
passage is opened before it, and its return is prevented by the 
closing of the tube behind it as it goes onwards. The sensibiUty 
of the oesophagus is so very slight that we do not, in ordinary 
circumstances, feel the morsel going down ; but if it is peculiar 
in shape and nature we become aware how slowly and steadily 
it proceeds, and ought to proceed. For during this passage 
much of the sugar and soluble salts and the watery part is 
taken up by absorption, and if it is hurried by bolting mouth- 
ful after mouthful in rapid succession, scant justice is done to 
the victuals, and a risk of indigestion is incurred. The 
healthy circulation of saliva in this round is very great ; we 
have seen lately how many pints are poured out daily in the 
mouth, and of this but little finds its way to the intestines, the 
rest being taken up in the oesophagus and stomach, principally 
in the former. So the importance of not interfering with its 
due action can be easily understood. 

Once in the stomach, the mass of food acquires a rotation 
from the wavelike movement kept up by the peristaltic 
muscles of the stomach. Their alternate contractions and relaxa- 
tions press on the mass, much as the undulations of a serpent 
carry it over the ground — only in the latter case the undulat- 
ing body is free, in the former it is fixed. The surface, being 
the part subjected to the moving power, moves quicker than 



118 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

the centre, and thus the whole contents of the stomach are ro- 
tated as an uniform mass, from lefb to right, and continnally 
irrigated by the gastric juice along the depending, lower, and 
larger part of the sac. As it passes the opening of the p jloms 
at the other end the narrowing of the sac squeezes out, with 
a somewhat quicker motion, such portion as is dissolved into 
creamj chyme, and it oozes on into the duodenum, leaving 
the still undissolved substances to flow along the shorter and 
upper curve of the stomach back to the starting-point. Thus 
a slow rotatory movement of the whole mass is sustained till 
all is dissolved, or at least so far reduced in size as to get 
through the pylorus. 

The rotation seems to be continued in the intestines if 
one may judge fairly of the action of their peristaltic fibres 
by the movements seen immediately after death in the intes- 
tines of a vigorous animal slaughtered for food; and the 
biliary ducts appear also to have a peristaltic action, rolling out 
gradually, and regulating, the flow of bile into the duodenum. 
Now over all these involuntary and unfelfc, but constant wave- 
like movements the nervous system presides; and they are 
without doubt seriously affected by all that affects the nervous 
system, notably by mental emotion and bodily exhaustion. The 
oesophagus is sometimes so paralyzed by a sudden shock dur- 
ing a meal that it does not close behind the victuals swallowed, 
and they are thrown up by a sort of regurgitation. Even 
some hours after a meal the arrest of the stomach's action by 
emotion may cause vomiting ; and many instances are on re- 
cord of a mental emotion so arresting the biliary ducts as to 
produce jaundice. The late Dr. Macleod, of St. George's 
Hospital, used to relate a scene which he saw in his own prac- 
tice : a young lady with distended abdomen was charged with 
being privately married, and her eyes and skin had got bright 
yellow before he lefb the room. And in the wild times, when 
people really did get into a passion sometimes, they are stated 
by bystanders to have often become suddenly jaundiced. Fe^ 



DIGESTION. lia 

of ns have ever seen an adult in a rage of the old sort, so that 
we mnst not question the accuracy of the statement. 

Whether absorption of the dissolved alimentary substances 
is affected by similar causes is not clear. I see no reason to 
suppose that it is, as endosmosis is such a purely physical act, 
that the nervous system can control it only very indirectly. 
But as the supply is cut off, it cannot, of course, be active 
during the prevalence of such interferences. 

The impediments to digestion arising out of disease of 
various kinds is a matter of too great weight to be cited 
merely as an illustration, and will be considered more fitly in 
a future part of the volume. Here is the place for a few 
reflections on the suitability of different articles of food. 

Aliments may be called digestible when they yield readily 
all their nutritious particles to the fluids destined for their 
reduction to chyme. It is clear from what has gone before 
that a comparative estimate of their digestibility cannot bp 
made merely by reckoning, as I>r. Beaumont did, the duration 
of their sojourn in the stomach. That well-known physipian 
is familiftr to all &om having made a series of observations on a 
Canadian voyageur who had a permanent opening into his 
stomach, a healed gunshot wound. This was easily looked 
into, and the time consumed before the victuals passed out 
noted. But the results, which are often taken as an infallible 
guide by the dietician, are not truly in accordance with what 
general experience teaches us on this matter. For example, 
salt tripe or pig's trotters by this theory take only one-third 
of the time demanded by roast beef, the former dish being 
dissolved in the stomach in one hour, and the latter requiring 
three, while veal took four hours and a half. Sourcrout 
seemed to be twice as digestible as soup made of beef and 
^vegetables. Mutton was three quarters of an hour longer in 
digesting than beef, and so on. Green vegetables, again, are 
hurdly at all touched by the gastric juice— are we therefore 
to conclude that they are useless ? Surely the general obser- 



120 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

vation, that they are very digestible by a healthy man, is more 
in accordance with fact. 

I do not lay much stress on the objection to these experi- 
ments arising out of individual peculiarity of constitution; 
for in fact the subject of observation was a remarkably robust 
man, little affected by external circumstances, and able to 
carry on, in spite of the hole in his side, the laborious duty of 
conducting timber-rafts down the American rapids. 

In order to give observations like Dr. Beaumont's their 
full value they should be corrected by a set of similar tests 
conducted upon the duodenum and ilia, for which a good 
opportunity has not yet occurred. Experiments on animals 
have been made, it is true ; and they establish the fact that 
the intestinal juice is of great importance, and that the pancreas, 
if not the liver, aids in the solution of food ; ^ but the alimen- 
tary canal and the habitual diet of the lower creatures are 
so different from ours, that a comparison of the behaviour of 
different articles of food in their case affords no practical 
experience for human dietetics. 

Something of a comparative estimate might be made by 
laboratory experiments on the juices removed fix)m the body, 
separately and mixed. Pending advances in this direction, 
the following general conclusions are all the rules our know- 
ledge enables us to lay down : — 

The degree of Cohesion has an important influence wpon 
digestibility, — ^Tough articles, incapable of being ground up by 
the teeth, remain unused by the alimentary organs, while 
fluids and semi-fluids lead the van of digestibles. The tissues 
of young vegetables and young animals are for this reason 
more digestible than those of old specimens of the same 
class; and emasculated beasts, having softer muscles, are 
better suited for the table than perfect males. It is desirable 
also that the post-mortem rigidity, which lasts several days in 
some animals, should have merged into softness before the meat 

* See the plates illastratiye of Dr. Dalton's experiments, Human Fh^s., 
p. 146. 



DIGESTION. 121 

is cooked. But this object, usually attained by hanging in 
the larder, may be arrived at equally well by mvmediate 
cooking, before the rigidity has set in. In warm climates 
and exceptionally warm weather the latter course is the pre- 
ferable of the two. 

That culinary preparation is the most efficacious which 
most breaks up the natural cohesion of the viands. And it 
may be observed that the force of cohesion acts in all direc- 
tions ; and i^ is of no use for a viand to be laterally friable if 
it remains in longitudinal strings. 

Fat inteirposed between the component parts of food diminishes 
its digestibility. — It is the intestinal layer of fat between the 
bundles of fibres of beef that makes it less digestible than 
mutton, and that causes larded meats often to disagree. 

Dilution favours digestibility. — Yet it may be carried too 
fietr. Even water will sometimes run through the alimentary 
canal, carrying on too rapidly the matters dissolved in it ; 
and inert substances, such as woody fibre, if mixed up in too 
great quantity with food, dilute it so much that the central 
parts of the mass do not come at the digestive mucous 
membrane. Gelatine, if too concentrated, retards the digestion 
of food. 

Too high a temperature retards digestion, — It is not merely 
that the gastric, and presumably the other digestive solvents, 
are decomposed by heat above that of the body, but the 
amount of secretion and the muscular acts necessary to 
•forward solution are arrested by its local action. This applies 
principally to starchy foods, which are often taken hotter than 
at all suits the salivary glands. Meat has time to cool before 
it gets down to the laboratory prepared for it in the stomach. 

The application of these rules to practice is not difficult ; 
but it is obviously impossible to compare articles of diet unless 
they are of a definite quality ; and, therefore, it will be under- 
stood that all those spoken of are supposed to be of the very 
best sort, and dressed in the way best adapted for securing 
their virtues. 



122 GENJERAL DIETETICS. 

Some years ago I printed what I called a 'Ladder of meat- 
diet for invalids/ ^ which I will use in a future part of this 
volume, when we come to consider the regimen of the sick. 
I there conclude with roast joint of mutton, which is the 
' promised land ' of the convalescent ; so that dish may fairly 
here begin the list — which may form a sort of skeleton frame- 
work — ^from its actual or possible position in which may be 
judged roughly the comparative time which each article is 
likely to require for its digestion. When time and strength 
have to be economised, or where a full quantity is required for 
purposes of nutrition, it is wise to adhere to the leading names 
on the list. Where moderation can be calculated upon and 
full leisure secured, a healthy man cannot be called imprudent 
for indulging his appetite for variety by descending to the 
very bottom. Indeed to do so within reasonable bounds 
contributes to high health, for it is certain that an important 
element in making the most of food is variety. It is not 
enough to supply in proper amount the proximate dietetic 
substance; both in our own race and in domestic animals 
there is risk of a falling off in condition unless different sub- 
stances of the same class are employed in rotation. The very 
strongest, perhaps, can bear uniformity without injury, but to 
the average man or beast it is as finally noxious as it is dis- 
tasteful. Dr. Parkes suggests that the good effect of variety 
is probably on primary digestion, improving the appetite, and 
so causing more food to be taken by counteracting the cloying 
result of sameness.^ But I think it goes further than that, 
for few can fail to have noticed in their own personal experi- 
ence, if once the attention be called to it, how often a most 
indigestible dish, when partaken of as an occasional luxury, 
has seemed to sit easy on the stomach and to nourish well, 
though its quantity has been spare. The great art is to give 
it time and space, and to be moderate. 

Dr. Parkes makes the further very practical suggestion, 

> The Indigestions, p. 101, 3rd edit, Philadelphia, 1870. 
» FarkeSi Fraetioal Hygiene^ p. 186, 4th edit. 



DIGESTION. 123 

thai^ where yariety of material is unattainable, variety of 
coolsery, to a certain extent, fulfils the same object. 

^able of Precedence in Digestibility of some Articles oj Animal Food, 
Sweet-bread and lamb's trotters. 
Boiled chicken. 
Venison. 

Lightly boiled eggs, new toasted cheese. 
Boast fowl, turkey, partridge, and pheasant 
Lamb, wild duck. 
Oysters, periwinkles. 
Omelette (?), tripe (?). 
Boiled sole, haddock, skate, trout, perch. 
Tripe and chitterlings.^ 
Mntton. 
Boast beet 
Boiled beef. 
Bump steak. 
Boast Teal. 
Boiled Teal, rabbit. 

Sabnon, mackarel, herring, pilchard, sprat. 
Hard boiled and fried eggs. 
Wood pigeon, hare. 
Tame pigeon, tame duck, goose. 
Fried fish. 

Boast and boiled pork. 

Heart, liver, lights, milt, and kidneys of ox, swine, and sheep. 
Lobsters, shrimps, prawn& 
Cayiare. 

Smoked, dried, salt, and pickled fish. 
Crab. 
Bipe old cheese. 

The comparative digestibility of various vegetable dishes 
is easier to estimate than that of animal food ; it is in direct 
ratio to the &ciHly with which they are reducible into a 
homogeneous mass by mechanical means. And they are 
more readily digested if this reduction takes place through 
chewing in the mouth, rather than by mashing in the 
kitchen, as they in the first way become permeated more 
thoroughly by the saliva. If, on the score of defective teeth 
or other reasons, a preference is given to artificially broken- 

1 The 'tripe' as made in America woidd seem from Dr. Beaumont's 
aceonnt to be more digestible than the rich dish we prepare from it here. 



124 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

up vegetables, they shoald be retained in the month longer 
than is required by the mere preparation for swallowing. 

The influence of the mind over digestion must not b 
forgotten. * Bread eaten in sorrow ' remains unabsorbed, and 
it is not without reason that, even in the earliest times and 
among the most barbarous tribes, companionship during meals 
has always been sought. It is not only painful reflections 
which disturb the digestion ; any concentrated thought is 
equally injurious, and injurious in a close proportion to the 
intellectual powers of the individual. The only fit people to 
feed alone are those fluttering butterflies whose intellects do 
not dispose them to concentrate their thoughts, and whose 
good luck exempts them from the need of trying. And 
even these instinctively seek society. To the brain-worker 
and the body-worker cheerful distraction at meal-times is 
a rule of imperious necessity, the habitual neglect of which 
entails chronic disease and the early failure of vital powers as 
a certain punishment. Beading during dinner, so common at 
clubs among bachelors, almost always causes dyspepsia. 

The adjuncts of family meals should be studiously made 
as agreeable as possible. A change of clothes, clean hands, 
and courteous manners should not be reserved for company, 
but enforced as a daily habit. If allowed to be omitted it 
becomes a labour instead of a matter of course. Table- 
decking is an accomplishment capable of exhibiting the good 
sense, as well as the good taste, of the artist, and highly pro- 
motive of ease of mind in the company, however small or 
however familiar. If flowers are lacking there are always leaves 
to be had, and I have seen toadstools with mosses and lichens 
so arranged as to form a centre-piece that Cellini must have 
praised. I do not see why we should not have music and 
singing at domestic meals, as well as at city feasts. All 
are not eating at once, and a change of performers might be 
kept up as long as required.^ The cook also should be en- 

> ' The interim of conyenient rest before meat may both with profit and 
delight be taken up in recreating, and composing their travailed spirita with 
the solemn and Divine harmonies of mnsick heard or learned* . . . The like 



DIGESTION. 125 

conraged to make the dishes which are exposed to the eye as 
pleasant to look at as possible, not so much by adornment, 
which is apt to be vulgar, as by concealing all that is untidy 
and suggestive of painful ideas. The forms of animals, in 
&ct anything which makes us remember that the food has 
been a living animal at all, should never be conspicuously 
displayed, but rather covered with such vegetable garnish as 
is capable of harmonising with the character of the dish. 

Ease of body is also requisite for digestion. Muscular 
exertion should be avoided immediately before and immediately 
afber all substantial meals. The repose previous need not be 
long ; a nap of ten minutes, dressing, and washing are usually 
enough to prepare even an exhausted pedestrian or hard rider 
for a good dinner. The best test of due preparation is a 
healthy appetite without any feeling of faintness or squeam. 
The rest after meals requires rather more self-control. In- 
stinct induces us to take it, but does not tell us to avoid 
excess. Yet it is certain that to a healthy person excess is 
very possible. Sleep afber dinner retards digestion, and 
allows the distended stomach to act injuriously on the circula- 
tion of the brain. It is proper only for very aged persons or 
invalids, and not always for them. 

I have heard it urged that dogs and other carnivorous 
animals naturally betake themselves to sleep after a repast. 
That is true, but it must be remembered that in the wild state 
their chance of a meal comes but seldom : thev must take the 
food when they can get it, and, to guard against starvation, 
overload their stomachs. The lethargy which follows is a 
necessity, and there is no evidence that it prolongs their lives. 
Dogs who live most in the company of man, and feed on the 
mixed and cooked diet of their masters, usually give up the 
practice of sleeping after meals along with their gluttony, and 
to all appearance suffer less frequently from indigestion than 
their cousins at the kennels, who require careful supervising 
to preserve their condition. 

also would not be xmexpedient afber meat, to assist and cherish nature in 
her first eoncocticn.* — AfUt<m''8 Tractate on Education. 



126 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

The best employment after a heariy meal is frivolous con- 
versation, accompanied by Bncb gentle sauntering movements 
as are encouraged by a well-ventilated drawing-room or 
garden. Then is the time for those true games where luck 
and skill are so combined as to have the character of game 
and not of business. 

I have ventured to go beyond what might seem tbe limit of 
a dietetician's tether, because it is upon these social considera- 
tions that depends the determination of the best times of meals 
for healthy persons. For the heaviest repasts those hours 
should be selected when we can secure to the Mlest extent 
leisure of mind and body, and the opportunity of applying the 
aids mentioned above as tending to promote them. It is use- 
less to prescribe the times for meals, or even their number, 
unless with a regard to the disposal of the remainder of the 
day, whether that is regulated by choice or necessity. 

The intervals between meals, also, depends on the occupa- 
tions which fill them up. Sleep retards digestion, and there- 
fore a considerably longer period may be allowed to elapse 
between the last food at night and the first in the morning 
than is suitable during the day. Violent exercise of mind or 
body also retards digestion, and therefore, when this is prac- 
tised, food is not called for so soon as on a day of rest. I 
have often observed that, in spite of a late breaJdast, a keen 
appetite often comes on Sundays before one o'clock to lawyers 
and merchants, who on working days do not care to eat till 
two or three, nor even then. Whereas busy medical men, 
whose work is more continuous, though less severe, adopt the 
early Sunday dinner hour only with reluctance. 

There can hardly be any exceptions to the rule, that after 
the night's sleep, and the long fast which has emptied the 
digestive organs, food should be eaten before any of the 
material business of the day is taken in hand. Work done 
before breakfast is more tiring, and (with due deference to 
well-meaning enthusiasts for early rising) is not done so well 
as after the stomach has been fortified with what it must re- 
quire, if in a healthy state. The hour of rising must there- 



DiaESTION. 1 27 

bre regulate the hour of breakfast. It is no proof of health 
rr vigOTir to forego it without inconvenience, nay, rather the 
contrary ; but it is proof of health and vigour to be able to 
ay in then a solid foundation for the day's labour. The 
latural appetite for food should be fully and completely ap- 
>ea8ed, and if there is a desire for meat, there is no reason 
or declining it — ^indeed, where mental work has to be done, it 
lad better not be omitted. For mere bodily toil a breakfast 
nerely farinaceous, such as porridge, bread, milk, and butter 
3 most adapted, to which the usual additions de luxe may be 
oade according to choice. 

Not more than fi^e hours should elapse before food is again 
aken. To some persons, from habit, the appetite does not 
irrive so soon ; and then if they sit down to an unaccustomed 
nncheon, they feel stupefied by it, and quote this experience as 
in evidence that a midday meal is unwholesome for them. 
Che stomach requires a gradual education afbcr it has got 
nto bad habits ; so, beginning with a biscuit and a little milk, 
jhe patient should advance in quantity tiU he arrives at the 
unonnt which is shown to be the proper amount by his sitting 
iown to his subsequent dinner hungry and unexhausted. The 
yroper amount varies much in different persons and different 
nrcumstances, and the only general description that can be 
ipplied to it is ' moderate.' 

Instead of a light meal some prefer to take a high dinner 
in the middle of the day. This seems to suit idle people and 
ohildren ; but, if hard work has to be resumed immediately 
afterwards, very frequently indigestion is the result. It is 
the cause of that form of congestive dyspepsia to which the 
middle classes in Germany are extremely subject, and which 
drives them annually to eliminative mineral waters, like swal- 
lows to the South. 

The best time for an adult's largest meal is when the busi- 
ness of the day is done, which ought to be between five and 
eight. If it is taken earlier there is time to get hungry again 
before bed-time ; and if later, sleep comes too soon on the top 
of it. For light eaters the later hours, for heavy eaters earlier 



128 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

hours are most suitable. It may be observed that the court 
dinners of city companies and the merry-makings of Green- 
wich icthyophagistfl, where the guests meet to eat largely, are 
usually early. 

It is superfluous for a healthy person, not influenced by 
any of the peculiar circumstances which will be hereafter 
considered, to devote special attention to the digestibility of 
his dinner. He is apt to leave off" this and leave off that, under 
the impression that they have once disagreed with him, till 
his bill of fare becomes most injuriously restricted. Variety 
in diet is of essential importance to health, and a succession 
of several imperfect or even unwholesome kinds of food is 
better than a monotonous repetition of a perfect aliment. 
Occasional feasts and occasional fasts constitute the natural 
mode of life for an intellectual and social animal. This para- 
graph applies to all meals, but I have inserted it apropos of 
dinner as being the principal. 

By variety is implied, not a great number of dishes at 
once, which is confusing and oppressive, and destructive of 
the object aimed at, but a frequent (why not daily ?) differ- 
ence in the principal dish, to which the few other accessory 
dishes are harmonised. Some of the most appetizing dinners 
one has ever eaten have really consisted of one article, novel 
and unexpected. The famous Mrs. Poyser sagely remarked 
that a man's stomach likes to be surprised, and no surprise is 
possible if the same monotonous superfluity is repeated day 
after day. » 

In the course of the evening a cup of tea seems to give a 
fresh fillip to digestion, and supplies liquid which is required 
for solution of the viands. Some persons are afraid of its 
keeping them awake, and will find a good substitute in extem- 
pore lemonade — ^a cup of hot water poured on a slice of lemon, 
some chips of the rind, and a lump of sugar. But tea of an 
afternoon is by no means to be recommended. The habit of 
taking it began as a sort of fashionable whim about a dozen 
years ago> when high-bom dames took to imitating their 
washerwomen, but has spread so far downwards through the 



DIGESTION. 129 

middle classes tliat medical men ought to exert themselves to 
stop it. K the dinner-honr is so late that too long a time 
interposes between it and luncheon, let the latter be moved 
onwards, and, if necessary, breakfast also. For the dilution 
and washing away of the gastric secretion weakens its power 
of digesting the subsequent dinner, improperly blunts the 
appetite, and not un&equently generates flatulence and 
dyspepsia. A biscuit, an orange, or an ice is a much less in- 
jurious indulgence at the same hour. 

A man in health ought to be satisfied with three meals a 
day, and should educate his stomach to take enough at them 
to supply his requirements. The practice of constantly 
nibbling induces a flow of saliva almost continuous, like that 
of herbivorous animals, and neutralises the gastric juice, so 
that meat is not folly digested. 

The last meal should be sufficiently late for the whole not 
to be absorbed before retiring to rest. Gk)ing to bed hungry 
is liable to induce a habit of restlessness at night. If business 
or pleasure keep you up much longer than usual, it is better 
to take a light farinaceous supper, which in this case induces 
sleep. This, however, is a very different thing from sleep in 
a state of repletion; for that (as was before observed) disturbs 
the circulation in the brain, producing painful dreams, fever, 
and wakefulness. 

An adult may consider that he is taking enough for the 
ordinary requirements of healthy activity if he eats in 
twenty.four hours the equivalents of 1 lb. of meat and 
2 lbs. of bread. The English soldier, on home service, 
receives from Government | lb. of meat and 1 lb. of bread, 
and he buys about ^ lb. additional bread and 1 lb., or so, 
of other vegetable food.^ Dr. Parkes calculates that this 
quantity of nitrogenous aliment is somewhat deficient for the 
maintenance of high vigour, so that I have ventured to add 
^ lb. of animal food, reducing by a few ounces the supply of 
vegetables. 

* Parkes, PraeticcU Hygiene for Medical Officers qfthe Army, p. 623. 

E 



130 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

The closer a man approximates to this allowance the 
better, if he has no individual peculiarities of size, tempera- 
ment, occupation, climate, or state of health to allow for. To 
all but exceptional cases anything beyond this is excess— not 
hurtful necessarily, perhaps even beneficial as an occasional 
change, but still an excess. To continue such excess as a 
daily habit puts a person in a position more prone to ill health 
than he would be naturally. To err by defect is equally in- 
jurious if persisted in ; but it has this advantage, that it 
ofbener obtains a compensation which to a considerable extent 
rectifies the balance. Thus, the soldier at home gets frequent 
little treats, partly out of his own and partly out of others' 
pockets, which fill up the corners left by the Government 
ration. Perhaps the most perfect diet is one just within the 
limit proposed, with an occasional transgression as a change. 

It is possible for a high feeder to make an equivalent 
change by abstinence ; and if he by good luck goes to a doctor, 
he is perhaps advised to do so ; but I have never yet known 
one to fast voluntarily as a preservative to health, though he 
must have often felt the beneficial effects of its being forced 
upon him. It is forced upon him sometimes as a direct con- 
sequence of the habit of over-eating ; a surfeit of accumulation 
comes on, or he brings it on by going a little further than 
usual, and then nausea and loss of appetite perform the good 
office of making a change by cutting off the supplies. Unless 
relieved in this way, the luxurious get torpid and stupid by 
day and restless by night, there is a sluggish circulation in 
the veins from the overloading of the blood with useless 
material, there are congestions and engorgements of the 
internal organs, discolorations of the skin, thick urine, flying, 
unaccountable pains, neuralgia, rheumatism, gout, obesity. 

The evils of too great restriction of food will be considered 
in a future chapter, when we come to the subject of poverty 
as a modifying circumstance in dietetics. 



131 



CHAPTER V. 

NUTRITION. 

With the passage of the liquefied alimentary substances 
throngli the mncons membrane Hning the tube digestion ends. 
Anything which afterwards occurs to the incoming matter 
may more properly be classed as nutrition. 

The chyme, or emulsion of all the constituents of the food 
capable of nourishing the body, passes slowly by endosmosis 
into the tissue itself of the bowels, and finding there open 
spaces which grow wider and wider in the direction of their 
current, it flows easier and quicker along them. The ab- 
sorbents, as anatomists have called these open canals, become 
immediately after eating filled with this white, milky emulsion 
then called chyle. But when it gets to the largest part of 
this tubular system, the * receptaculum chyli,' it has a 
difficult upward course to pursue, and flows but slowly 
through ihe thoracic duct into the jugular vein. In fact 
the chyliferous , systeln of the mammalia, though more de- 
veloped than in the inferior classes, is still imperfect as an 
hydraulic apparatus when compared with the sanguiferous 
system. There seems little doubt that the blood-vessels of the 
intestines, though they have a good deal else to do, aid much 
in the reception of nutrient matters, especially those soluble 
in water ; and when they do absorb they absorb much more 
quickly than the absorbents, on account of the activity of their 
current. It must be by the veins of the abdomen that the 
blood receives that accession of volume which makes the 
arteries fuller immediately after a meal. We cannot see the 

k2 



132 GENERAL DIETETICS. 

milky fat chyle when it is once mixed with blood, and we ca^ 
see it in the lacteals ; but the probability is that it goes in on.^ 
way as well as the other. 

The importance of these observations lies in the amount o: 
assistance to nutrition which is secured by a free and vigorou^^* 
circulation through the blood-vessels of the trunk. Nothing'"*' 
induces diseases of a wasting nature more readily than 
permanent obstruction of this circulation ; and temporary ob- 
struction of it cannot but give rise to functional derangements 
of nutrition. Postures and clothing which cramp the abdo- 
minal viscera mostly do harm in this way. The tight-laced 
girl gets no good out of her dinner, and fades away into 
ansBmia ; and the face of the tailor grows sallower, and his 
digestion more painful day after day, till he has to take to 
gin * to keep his blood moving * ; and then when his liver 
grows hard a more complete block takes place, and he dies of 
dropsy and starvation. The patient with diseased heart has 
probably his lacteals as pervious as ever, but he cannot take 
liquid food with comfort, because his veins flow so slowly. 
If he persists in swallowing soups and slops, they gurgle 
about in the bowels, and are a fertile source of indiges- 
tion. 

After the nutritious chyle has got into the blood further 
changes are required before it can fiilfil the purposes of 
the organism, before it can build up tissue or supply fiiel for 
pulmonary combustion. Prominent among these stands that 
which takes place in the liver. The biliary secretion from 
this organ has been spoken of in the previous chapter as 
taking a part, though not a leading part, in the solution of 
fat in water, as staying the too rapid decomposition of 
albuminous food and excretory matter, and as supplying some 
of the liquid vehicle in which the aliment is conveyed through 
the walls of the digestive tube. In all these the liver is 
subordinate, and its place may be readily supplied. But the 
ansBmic degeneration of the blood, the gradual pining emacia- 
tion, ulceration of the tissues, and inevitable death, which 



NUTRITION. 133 

follow its suppression — all of which point to some deficiency 
of assimilative capacity, and not merely to the stoppage of an 
excretion — show that it performs in the circle of life some 
special duty which cannot he spared or replaced hy another 
^land. The hlood going into the liver is altered hefore it 
comes out of the liver much Airther than is involved in the 
xnere formation of hUe. 

During the last thirty years the changes necessary to life 
'Wrought on the blood hy the liver have engaged a large share 
of the attention of physiologists. I have been comparing the 
account which I printed in 1856 ^ of what had been done up 
to that time with those of the present day, and I find a 
progressive advance towards the light, which seems to promise 
our sons not only interesting, bat practical knowledge. It 
was then established that ^ a copious amount of sugar is formed 
in the cells, and is forwarded into the hepatic vein, but not 
into the bile ducts,' and ' that the sugar is formed in conse- 
quence of taking food.'' It has been now ascertained that it 
is not an immediate consequence that the sugar' does not 
pass from the food into the liver, but that the sugar-making 
in the cells of the gland continues for a long time after the 
alimentary canal is emptied. It appears, moreover, that the 
liver-sugar, though more copious even than had been supposed, 
is a very transitory stage in the circle of chemical changes. 
It is so momentary that it can be made evident only by an 
artificial arrest, just as electrical action in the earth, though 
so vast in its results, touches our senses only through the 
partial derangement which shows itself in the lightning's 
flash. 

1 Digestion and its Derangements, chap. vii. ' Ibid, p. 160. 

' It is here called ' stigar/ as at first, simply because that word conveys 
more to the mind of all bnt experimental physiologists than any other. Its 
ultimate analysis is the same as that of sugar, and withont any addition of 
snbBtance it becomes sugar in presence of a ferment; but it is not diffusible 
or crystallisable, nor is it sweet. So M. Bernard calls it 'glycogen ' 
(in fieustem phrase ' the father of sweets '), and more recently it has been 
designated * amyloid substance/ neither of which is a very happy name. 



134 GENERAL DIETETIGS. 

Bat let it not be reckoned as of small moment because of 
its latency. It is an observation as old as Thncjdides, that 
the inflaential forces in the world are the most active when 
most unnoticed, and that their being drawn into notice is 
nsually the result of their disturbance. We see in diabetes 
the evil of the further conversion of the sugar being interfered 
with, and of its remaining in the blood onty to run off as 
dietetic sugar bj the urine ; and we can hardly doubt that 
the breach of a link of the chain, an arrest of i^Q formation of 
sugar, may explain some obscure morbid states. 

It seems hardly possible not to connect this temporary 
saturation of the blood by a highly carbonaceous substance 
with the excretion of carbonic acid through the lungs, and to 
look to the working out of this process to aid our treatment 
of diseases of both lungs and Hyer. And those who take 
delight in the looming of future light throng the mist wiQ 
find much to interest them in Dr. Dalton's sketch of this 
subject, and the details of the experiments repeated by 
himself in the ninth chapter of his *" Human I^iysiology.' 
It is, however, evident to every reader that the harmonizing 
&ct8 which will doubtless reconcile the discrepancies of 
existing knowledge are still wanting, and it is as yet hazard- 
ous to base our practice upon it. 

That the spleen and lymphatic glands take abo a part in 
nutntion, or Mood-making, is pretty dear, bat which part is 
entirety unknown. 

The defects of our informatioai afaofut the stages and 
machinery of nutrition does not, however, prev e nt us firom 
having a due to a good deal of practical knowledge of the 
cofmparative NuTKinousssss, for di&rent purposes, of different 
kinds of diet. 

By nutrition, two ends have to be accomplished, the 
growth or repair of the body, and the prodnction of motion or 
force. The first indication is more or less fulfilled in propor> 
tion to the quantity of digestible nitrogeDOos material, the 
ktter in proportioQ to the qoaniakj of di^;estiUe carfao- 



NUTRITION. 136 

hydrates whicli the aUments contam. It is very clear that 
the digestibility must be insisted upon, otherwise we should 
make serious mistakes in onr valuations of food. For instance, 
according to the well-known table of M. Fayen, a pound of 
chestnats and a pound of milk contain very nearly the same 
quantity of nitrogen ; yet, to expect that a baby would grow 
as well upon one as the other would be criminal folty. 

When, then, circumstances require us to foster growth, to 
increase the vigour of the muscles and nerves for short tem- 
porary exertions, to replace preternatural weaar and tear, meat 
is valuable in the direct ratio of its solubility in the stomach. 
When the regular performance of a daily round of moderate 
exertion alone has to be provided for, carbo-hydrates in the 
form of &rinaceous and oleaginous food may with advantage 
constitute the chief of the diet. So that before giving any 
general rules for the selection of a dietary which will best 
perform its duties, it will be needful to review the special 
circumstances for which it is required, which I propose to do in 
respect of normal conditions in the second part, and in respect 
of morbid conditions in the third part of this volume. 



PAET n. 



SPECIAL DIETETICS OF HEALTH. 



CHAPTER I. 

REGIMEN OF INFANCY AND MOTHERHOOD. 

It may be presumed no Englishmaii donbts that the appro- 
priate food for a new-bom infant is a mother's milk.^ Even 
deviations from the normal condition of the general system, 
or of the breast, shonld not be allowed too readily to deter a 
mother from snckling, till there is evidence that the secretion 
is disagreeing with the child. Unless diarrhoea or thrush 
occnr, it may be taken for granted that proper nutriment is 
afforded, and if proper nutriment is afforded, we may be sure 
a woman's health is not affected by the inconveniences which 
she may be enduring. 

I have known a woman, unable to feed herself from severe 
rheumatic fever, have her child held to her breast and be 
nourished only from thence, without any harm following 
and in several instances slight inflammation of the breast has 
seemed to be benefited by the flow of milk induced by 
suckling. Indeed, I have once seen a breast with an abscess 
in it supply healthy nutriment to a child, the mother feeling 
sure that the abscess did not communicate with the lacteal 

> Strange to say the opinion is not tmiyersal. Dr. Bronzet (Sur VEdU' 
cation MSdicincde des Enfanta, i. p. 165) has such a bad opinion of human 
mothers that he expresses a wish for the State to interfere and prevent them 
from snckling their children, lest they should communicate disease and vice! 
A still more deteimined pessimist was the &mou8 chemist Van Helmont, 
who thought life is reduced to its present shortness by our instinctive 
in&ntile propensity, and proposed to substitute bread boiled in beer and 
honey for milk, which he calls ' brute's food * (in the chapter ' In&ntis 
nutritio ad vitam longam '). 



140 DIET IN HEALTH. l| 

tubes. I fancy no medical man would sanction a persistence 
in the latter risk, but still it were to be wished that our 
accoucheurs would be somewhat less hasty than they generally 
are in debarring mothers from suckling on slight gronnds. 
A certain injustice is inflicted on the child, and a problematical 
benefit conferred on the parent. 

During the months of suckling it should be the object of 
the mother first to provide herself with an appetite, and 
secondly to provide herself with proper food. The appetite 
often fails simply from want of fresh air, especially in those 
who are used to enjoy it, the remedy for which state of things 
is sufficiently obvious. Sometimes the disrelish for food is a 
symptom of the exhaustion induced by the labour, and then 
smaU doses of sal volatile, or a light bitter, such as gentian, 
will remove it. Sometimes it is a direct gastric ansemia, 
arising from going too long without food. The patient 
should eat directly she begins to feel hungry, and not wait to 
feel very hungry. But at the same time she should be carefnl 
not to overload the stomach ; in fact, though she eats often, 
she should not eat more than when in ordinary healthy 
exercise. The great mistake is often made of endeavouring to 
supply the wants of strength and appetite by an extra supply 
of wine or malt liquor. The nurse should never take more 
than she is accustomed to ; if she does, it makes her eat less 
and digest less, though she does not feel the debility which 
is the consequence of the innutrition. Beer increases the 
quantity of the milk, just as it increases the quantity of the 
urine, but it also renders it thin and watery in the one case 
as in the other. Indeed, less than she is accustomed to is the 
more rational rule of diet, for the happy peaceful circumstances 
of her situation usually exempt her from the mental wear and 
tear, and the exhaustions of the nervous system incidental 
to social life, which it is the special purpose of alcohol to 
compensate. 

The most proper food for a mother is cow's milk, firesh 
and unskimmed. It can be taken at all times, in a great 



INFANCY AND MOTHERHOOD. 141 

'ariety of forms, and nobody lias ever been known to take 
00 mxich. If it turns sour in the stomach, lime water mixed 
nth. it not only corrects its acescence, but also supplies a 
uluable aid to the growing bones of the infant. In the 
olid dietary again, milk may fairly be taken as the type of 
he due admixture of alimentary principles, because not 
adividual growth, not the production of force, but the secre- 
ion of that very substance, is the object of the selection of 
liet. So that we cannot do better than take the proportions 
i£ nitrogenous, carbonaceous, and aqueous constituents of 
he lacteal secretion as a guide to the proper tious of these 
)rmciples in the nursing diet of mothers. Analyses of milk are 
o be found in all physiological works, and if it be reckoned 
•oughly that in food as presented for our consumption, there 
8 50 per cent, of combined water, I think it will be found 
ihat the following scale of diet corresponds pretty closely to 
he proportion of the several constituents there enumerated. 

Supposing the full diet to consist of three pounds of solid 
bod, that will require six pints extra of uncombined aqueous 
luid to make it as fluid as milk ; and the three pounds of 
lolid food should consist of 

14^ ozs. of meat, 

13 ozs. of fat, butter, sugar, 

20 ozs. of farinaceous food and vegetables, 

^ an oz. of salt, lime, &c. 

Small women and small eaters, especially if they have small 
children to bring up, will require less ; but let the reduction 
l)e proportionata in each of the several classes of alimentary 
mbstances. And at first, from the eidiaustion of parturition, 
bom the want of exercise and of fresh air, the appetite turns 
igadnst meat. Let then milk, especially boiled milk with 
arrowroot or the like, chicken broth, egg custards, fill up the 
deficiency. Only insist that enough is taken. 

The observations by Dr. Barker of New York on this 
subject are so much to the point that I cannot forbear quoting 
them. He says, ^ Oive the puerperal woman as good nutri- 



142 DIET IN HEALTH. 

tions food as she has an appetite for, and can easily digest 
and assimilate. Yon will at first find many nnrses who will 
not accept these views, and they may fail to carry out your 
directions in this particular ; but my experience has been that 
after a time the intelligent ones become enthusiastic converts 
to this course. . . . Your patients rest and sleep better, and 
their functions are established with less disturbance tlian 
they would be with a spare or insufficient diet. Since I have 
adopted this measure with my puerperal women, I am very 
sure I have much less frequently met with those annoying 
and troublesome nervous phenomena that so commonly follow 
parturition, as the nervous system is then apt to be in a con- 
dition of exalted susceptibility. The function of lactation is 
thus generally established without that disturbance of the 
system called milk fever, formerly so common.' ^ 

It may be noticed that the Professor says nothing abont 
wine and malt liquors. They are conspicuous by their ab- 
sence in his dietary. And in truth the less a nursing mother 
takes of them the better, so that her temper and digestion do 
not obviously suffer from the restriction. 

The child should be put to the mother's breast as soon as 
she wakes from her first sound sleep after its birth. The 
waiting for three or four days is an old-£a.shioned relict of the 
days of drugging, when it was considered wrong that the 
young bowels should be relaxed by the colostrum of the first 
milk, but right that they should be griped with castor oil. 
Not to use the first milk is wasteful and injurious. The best 
substitute for it is cow's milk diluted and sweetened, as here- 
inafter described. 

The education of the infant must begin immediately after 
birth. In the first place, it has to be taught to suck, for 
which every monthly nurse has her own device, and will only 
laugh at any male who should presume to interfere. Next it 
has to be taught not to be always sucking, whenever the 

The Puerperal DiseaseSf Clinical Lectures delivered at BeUevue Hoe- 
pit<U, by Fordyce Barker, M.D., p. 27. 



INFANCY AND MOTHERHOOD. 143 

whim takes it or the mother comes in sight. Efegnlar de- 
finite times, the intervals hetween which are gradually length- 
ened as the child's strength and growth allow, give a rest 
both to the stomach of the receiver and the breast of the 
giver, which conduces to the due digestion of the nourish- 
ment. As a general rule the daily allowance of milk required 
by a healthy infant is on the first day very small indeed ; on 
the second day it takes about a quarter of a pint ; on the third 
day two-thirds of a pint ; on the fourth or fifth day it will 
consume a full pint. And this quantity augments gradually, 
till by the sixth month you must not calculate on less than 
two pints being wanted. The distribution should be in an 
inverse ratio to the quantity. Duriug the first two months 
the child should have the breast eight or nine times daily if 
the quantity yielded is small, and six or seven times if it is 
large. After that a gradual reduction may be begun, which 
before weaning should have arrived at the number of four 
meals daily, which is the most proper for the digestion of 
mixed diet. 

If a mother, with or without reasonable cause, deputes her 
duties to a wet nurse, she ought thoroughly to understand 
that the expedient is not without drawbacks. All the best 
accoucheurs agree that in choosing a woman for the office, 
observation of the figure, the complexion, the colour, the teeth, 
or even the shape and developmeut of the breasts, and the 
analysis of their secretion, are all unimportant compared with 
a knowledge of the regularity of the catamenia. In this 
respect it stands to reason we must take the applicant's own 
character of herself, a serious temptation to dishonesty. An 
unmarried woman may not improbably have a concealed 
constitutional taint, which is communicable through the milk, 
and at the best is an unpleasant inmate in the family. A 
poor married woman, however respectable, is removed from a 
starving home to sudden abundance, and invariably over-eats 
herself, and it is fortunate if she does not over-drink herself 
too. She pines and grows anxious about her own child if it 



144 DIET IN HEALTH. 

is alive, and insists upon having her troublesome husband to 
see her openly or secretly, on the pretence (a Mlacious one) 
that his visit increases the flow of milk. Moreover, a ricli 
mother cannot but feel some compunction in purchasing for 
her own offspring what is stolen from another, who is some- 
times seriously affected by the fraud, and retires disgusted 
from this false world. 

At all events, a trial ought to be first made, under the 
superintendence of a medical man, of fresh cow's Tm'llr^ or 
goat's milk, and of Swiss condensed milk. 

Cow's milk should at first be mixed with half its bulk of 
soft, pure, tepid water, in each pint of which has been sus- 
pended a drachm of ' sugar of milk ' (which is procurable at 
any chemist's, being used for grinding up powders) and two 
grains of phosphate of lime finely powdered. If the Tnillr 
has been partially skimmed, as is often the case in cities, 
then a good tablespoonfol of cream should be added to 
each pint, to make the mixture equal to human. If it has 
not been skinmied, a couple of teaspoonfrds of cream is 
sufficient.* 

The advantage of using goat's milk is that the n.TiiTnn.1 can 
be brought up to the very nursery, even in cities, and will 
supply nourishment directly to its little master's lips if called 
upon. Children do not seem to dislike the peculiar taste. 

Swiss milk has been already alluded to in the second 
chapter of the first part (p. 58). No inconvenience has as 
yet been proved to arise from its use, but no superiority to 

1 In the above recipe household measnrements are used as the nearest 
possible approximation to the following formula: — 

Whole cow*8 milk 600 parts. 

Cream 13 

Sugar of milk 15 

Phosphate of lime H 

Water 839J 



}» 
it 



1,000 
(Diet. Encycl, dea Sciences Med, Art, Lait, 1868). 



INFANCY AKD MOTHERHOOD. 145 

fresh cow's milk has been confirmed. As it is already 

sweetened in the preparation, no additional sugar is required, 

but care must be taken to dilute it sufficiently to make it 

resemble not ordinary milk, but milk and water. 

Lapnta never devised anything more preposterous than 

* Liebig's food for infants,' and the name of the inventor 

stands so high that I am induced to break through my general 

role of avoiding criticism. It is composed of malt flour, 

wheaten flour, bicarbonate of potass, water and cow's milk, 

' and the following is recommended as the simplest mode of 

cooking it : — 

Take of wheaten flour ^ oz. 

Malt flour ^ oz. 

Bicarl)onate of potass 7 J grs. 

Water J oz. 

Mix well, and add of cow's milk 5 oz. 

Warm the mixture, constantly stirred, over a very slow fire till it gets 
thick. Then remove the vessel from the fire, stir again for five minutes, 
put it back on the fire, take it off as soon as it gets thick, and finally let it 
boil well. Before use, strain through a muslin sieve. 

The object of all this is to convert the starch of the flour 
into dextrine and sugar, and to elaborate a product which after 
all is not nearly so like the natural sustenance as may be made 
with cow's milk, water, and a little additional sugar of milk. 
It is needless to say what a number of unnecessary risks are 
incurred of some one of the numerous articles employed being 
adulterated, of inaccurate measurement, of dirt, and of careless 
preparation by tired servants, who, it will be observed, have 
to keep the fire low for the first part of the process, and then 
io coal it up, making no small smoke, for the final boil. 
Sensible parents will be content to leave the recipe for somo 
coming race who may prefer art to nature. 

It is advisable to nourish the infant directly from the 

breast ; and where this cannot be done, as soon as possible 

after the milk is drawn. Our senses tell us of a peculiar aroma 

given off* by fresh milk which quickly exhales, and appearances 

^eem to warrant the conclusion that this contributes to soothe 

L 



146 DIET IN HEALTH. 

the sensitive nervons system of the suckling, and so assists 
digestion. 

The best diet for an infant during the first six months is 
milk alone. It is true man is a tough anii^al, and can stand 
with impunity much rough usage, and therefore a vigorous 
baby often se^ms none the worse for a certain quantity of 
farinaceous food ; but the first appearance of flatulence, gripes, 
screaming, Hi-temper, or other ways infants have of complain- 
ing of dyspepsia, should make the nurse desist from these 
attempts to hurry on natural development. 

It is only when the coming teeth are on their road to the 
front that the parotid glands secrete sufficient saliva to digest 
farinaceous food. When dribbling begins, then is the time 
to begin with the various preparations of these substances 
bountifully supplied by nature and art. Till then anything 
but milk given to a healthy baby must bo tentative, and con- 
sidered in the light of a means of education to its future 
dietary, and must not take the place of milk. 

Among the various means of education I would select as 
most generally applicable broth or beef tea, at first pure, and 
then thickened with a little tapioca or arrowroot. Chicken 
soup, made with a little cream and sugar, serves as a change. 
Baked flour, biscuit powder, and tops and bottoms, should all 
have their turn; in fact, change is necessary, or the child 
is apt to get too fond of its soup, and to neglect the really 
essential nutriment of milk, in fact to wean itself prema- 
turely. 

The consequencesof premature weaning are most disastrous, 
but insidious. The child continues to present the external 
aspect of health, its muscles are strong and elastic, but the 
bones do not grow in equal proportion. It is active and 
anxious to walk, but the limbs give way and become dis- 
torted. If it is ill enough to be taken to a medical man he 
calls the condition * rickets,' but there are crowds of poor 
creatures afiected in this way whose parents refuse to see that 
anything is wrong till the malady has gone too far for cure. 
The suspicion that rickets was due to this cause has long been 



INFAlH'CY AND MOTHEEHOOD. 147 

prevalent in the profession, bat it is to M. Jules Guerin tliat 
we owe the proof desired from direct experiment. This patho* 
logist fonnd not only that rickety children had almost invari- 
ably been prematurely weaned, bat that the disease was 
capable of artificial and intentional induction. He took young 
puppies and young pigs, specimens respectively of carnivorous 
and herbivorous animals, and he produced a rickety softening 
of the bones of each by removing them early from the mother, 
and giving the one set meat and the other set vegetables 
before the natural period. Professor Trousseau has backed 
the deductions of M. Guerin with his valuable impninatur. 

The time for weaning should be fixed, partly by the 
almanac, partly by the growth of the teeth. The troubles to 
which children are liable at this crisis are usually gastric, such 
as are induced by hot weather ; so that in summer it should 
be postponed, and in winter hurried forward. The first group 
of teeth nine times out of ten consist of the lower central front 
teeth, which excite no wonder in any but very young parents 
by appearing any time during the sixth and seventh month. 
The mother may then begin to diminish the number of suck- 
ling times ; and by a month she can have reduced them to 
twice a day, so as to be ready when the second group makes 
its way through the upper front gums to cut off the supply 
altogether. The third group, the lateral incisives and first 
grinders, usually after the first anniversary of birth, givo 
notice that solid food can be chewed. But I think it is pru- 
dent to let milk, though not mother's milk, form a consider- 
able portion of the diet till the eye-teeth are cut, which seldom 
occurs till the eighteenth or twentieth month. At this period 
«ven very strong children are liable to diarrhoea, convulsions, 
irritation of the brain, rashes and febrile cataixhs. In these 
<;ases the resumption of complete milk diet is advisable, and 
sometimes a child's life has been saved by its reapplication to 
the breast. Now these means are the most readily feasible 
when the patient is accustomed to milk ; indeed if it be not 
€0 the latter experiment is hardly possible. 



149 



CHAPTER II. 

EEGIMEN OP CHILDHOOD AND TOUTH. 

The diet of childhood requires from its rational gnardiaDS as 
nuch attention as that of infancy. The passions at this age 
)verpower the instinct, and reason has not yet asserted its 
ihrone. Children should have four meals a day, but meat 
>nly at one, or at most two. The best drinks for them aro 
nilk and water, simple or combined, concentrated or diluted, 
varied and prepared at sundiy temperatures, so as to avoid 
nonotony. For a change, too, the milk of the goat, the ass, 
ihe sheep, or the mare might bo employed", especially if the 
jhildren are delicate. Warm from the mother, hot from tho 
kettle, iced, tepid, boiled, breaded, skimmed, treated with 
3xtra cream, cream clotted and with water, sugared milk, 
treacled milk, vanilled milk, Hz au lait, savoury milk,^ whey, 
buttermilk, custards, &c., may be used to conciliate special 
tastes on occasions ; but plain cow's milk and water is usually 
the first love, to which the taste returns again and again. But 
whatever be the difficulties of taste, whim, or prejudice to be 
overcome by these arts of cookery and variety, overcome they 
must be, if we would have our offspring fitted to enjoy tho 

' In the South of France milk is sometimes flavoured with garlic; 
herbs are more wholesome for English stomachs. 



150 DIET IN HEALTH. 

life that lies before them, and to prepare themselves for its 
eternal continuance. Milk is essential to the nutrition of tlie 
young. Dr. Ferguson, the Factory Inspector, after a carefal 
continuous measurement of factory children, came to the 
conclusion that between thirteen and sixteen years of age 
they grew nearly four times as fast on milk for breakfast 
and supper as on tea and coffee. (The exact figures are as 
fifteen to four). To be stinted of milk is to be stinted three 
quarters of their growth ! Comment on this observation 
is needless. 

Once-cooked succulent meat without sauces or condiments, 
eggp, farinaceous puddings, mealy potatoes, carrots, spinacL, 
French beans, rice, bread, fresh butter, porridge, roast apples, 
oranges should form the solid staple of the nursery commis- 
sariat. 

When in health they should have no wine or beer ex- 
cept as a festive treat, no coffee, strong tea, or other stimu- 
lants. 

As to quantity, we may take the full diets of hospitals a^ 
fairly representing what should be the minimum proper (o^ 
those who are not restricted by fortune in the matter of foo^* 
and the lowest amount upon which a growing child can co^' 
tinue to flourish. For it may be observed that while all e^ 
travagance is herein avoided, the food is intended mainly f ^^ 
those who are convalescent from acute disease, and have n^ 
only to remain well, but to recover flesh. 

The following estimates are taken from the publish^ 
tables of diet. The quantities named are those which may b^ 
fairly put before each child of each article, and by selecting- 
the larger quantities we may give a very full allowance. ^^ 
the smaller amounts of one are eaten, then care should 
taken that the fuller weights of others are chosen. 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 



151 



Full Dietaries for Children at various Hospitals, 



Age 


Bread 


Butter 


Milk 


Meat 
2 oz. 


Vegetables 


Pudding Hospital 


Under 7 


unlimited 


1 oz. 


ipint 


4 oz. 


unlimited St. George's 


Under 7 


12 oz. 


? 


J pint 


2 oz. 


8 oz. 

1 


J twice 
J a week 


London 

f Children's 
Hospital, 


Under 8 


5 J oz. 


J about 
)§oz. 


^ pint 


2oz. 


4 oz. 

1 


\ pint 


Great Or- 
' mond Street, 
and Evelina 
L Hospital 


Under 8 


8 oz. 


(about « 
Jloz. ! ^ 


2oz. 


4 oz. 





J Leeds In- 
) firmary 
















/ Children's, 


AboTe 8 


8 oz. 


\ about 
) 1 oz. 


f pint » 


'3oz. 
broth 


6 oz. 


< gruel 
I ipint 


Great Or- 
■ mond Street, 
and Evelina 
. Hospital 








ipint 






























f i pint 


'Birmingham 


Under 9 


6 oz. 


? 


1 pint 


2 oz. 


6 oz. 


• gruel or 
broth 


General 
Hospital 


Under 9 


7 oz. 


i oz. 


1 pint 


4 oz. 


4 oz. 


to order 


jSt.Bartholo- 
\ mew's 


Under 10 


12 oz. 


£ oz. 


1 pint 


2oz. 


4 oz. 


6 oz. 


St. Thomas's 


Under 10 


6 oz. 

1 


? 


1 J pint 


2 eggs 


? 


8 oz. 


King's College 



In several of these tbe milk is rather stingily doled out. 

Let it always be understood that food is not to bo dis- 
pensed with pedantic accuracy as if it were a pharmaceutical 
prescription. Even in hospitals considerable latitude is allowed, 
and still more in private nurseries should we avoid making 
life a toil by too much interference. It is only in cases of 
prominent and persistent excess in one direction or the other 
that we should bring our adult reason to bear on infantile 
instinct. 

Extreme monotony should be avoided. It is a great in- 
convenience to young persons in after life to have been 
brought up in such a narrow round of indubitably whole- 
some victuals that they cannot eat this or that. They should 



' Including what is put in mashed potatoes. 



162 DIET IN HEALTH. 

especially be guarded against family wliims ; and if the 
parents are conscious of prejudices against any of the ordinary 
foods of mankind, tliey should educate their descendants to 
cat these as a matter of course. For it is astonishing how in- 
grained some of these acquired idiosyncrasies become, and in- 
deed after full manhood they may be concealed, but are never 
quite overcome. Tet few of the minor thorns in the rose-bed 
are so vexatious to oneself and others. My parents had a 
joint horror of garlic and of olive-oil. We never tasted them, 
and were told we did not like them. What a repulsive task it 
was to learn to relish them at twenty ! But without conquer- 
ing the repulsion pedestrian tours in southern lands were 
simply impossible. It was garlic and oil or nothing. Later 
on in life, I shall not soon forget the annoyance of taking a 
young man to a Greenwich dinner and finding that he never 
ate anything which swam in the waters. 

Children's teeth often have the enamel cracked off by too 
hot food or drink ; it should always be of such a temperature 
as admits of immediate swallowing, that is to say, very little 
above that of the mouth, or about 100°. 

The articles of diet should be as good and as clean as can 
be obtained ; but no criticism should be permitted to those 
who sit at table. A boy or girl should be ready to eat any- 
thing which is set before them, and not refuse strange, badly- 
cooked, or even dirty dishes ; for in roughing it through the 
world the choice often lies between that or going without. 

The plan adopted at many schools of working before 
breakfast is not conducive to health: If it is inconvenient for 
the household to prepare the meals immediately the pupils are 
dressed, the most that should be exacted is the repetition of 
some light task prepared over night : but better than that is 
to let them have half an hour's run in the play-ground. 
Violent exertion also of mind or body before and after other 
meals should be discouraged by a suitable aiTangement of the 
hours of work and play. -Esthetic pursuits, drawing, dancing, 
singing, may be made so to combine relaxation and amusement 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 153 

as to leave the powers of digestion anexbanstcd, and may be 
practised np to tbe time of meals. 

To the full development of the digestive organs relaxation 
in the open air is essential, and it is doubly valuable when it is 
of a pleasurable character. Proper exercise always involves a 
rational style of dress ; for ill-fitted and uncomfortable clothing 
is soon rejected by those who rejoice in the natural movement 
of the limbs. No shoulder-straps. 

Up to the period of puberty the daily use of wine should 
be aUowed only during illness and by the express advice of a 
medical man. Its habitual consumption by healthy children 
hastens forward that crisis in their lives, checks growth, and 
so habituates them to the artificial sensation induced by alcho- 
hol that they can scarcely ever leave it off when they wish. 
This restriction does not exclude occasional festivities, and boys 
in active exercise seem to digest well a glass of well-brewed 
beer at dinner. 

Between puberty and full growth the principal thing wo 
have to guard young people against is overloading the stomach. 
Their meals should be sufficiently frequent to avoid this, other- 
wise the stomach, from habitual distension, becomes larger than 
is appropriate for the size of the trunk, and there is in after Hfe 
a tendency to gastric flatulence. Lads sent to learn a business 
in the city are often much neglected in the matter of a midday 
meal, and have to make up for it by gorging themselves in the 
evening. This spoils their breakfast next morning, and they 
really get starved from over-repletion. The best luncheon a 
growing young man can have is a dish of roast potatoes, well 
buttered and peppered, and a draught of milk. Or the same 
vegetable with a little bacon or fish may be made into a 
Cornish pasty, which if wrapped up in flannel will keep hot 
for several hours. In the summer boiled beans and bacon, 
or bread and cheese and lettuce, with a glass of claret or a 
draught of bitter beer, may take its place. But let the repast 
be confined to one dish, and then they will not eat too much. 
Red meat in the middle of the day is too heating during 



154 DIET IN HEALTH. 

active life, so that if the conventional form of a sandwicli is | ^ 
the only convenient lunch found practicable, let it be made 
of eggs, or fowl, or cold fish, flavoured with a little salad dress- 
ing, or the like. 

Youth is the time when gluttonous habits are acquired. 
The commencement of them is easily detected, and they should 
unsparingly be made as disgraceful as they really are. Eidi- 
cule is not always a wise engine to employ in education — it is 
too powerful; but against gluttony it may fiiirly be used. 
Let it not, however, be supposed that excess in gratifying the 
palate is at all a laughing matter. It is a vice just as truly as 
sexual excess is a vice ; and there is the less excuse for its 
becoming an habitual vice, in the fact that the temptation to 
acquire it is strongest in youth, and becomes weaker as f o)^ 
growth is attained. That it is regarded as a serious vice by 
the highest authority is shown to all time by that wonderfa* 
history of the civiHsation of a specially-favoured race pre- 
served in the commonest of books. Kibroth-Hataavah — * Th ^ 
Graves of the Greedy ' — remained for future generations as £^ 
standing memorial of Heaven's wrath, and of the natural 
punishment of sins against natural law.* The worldly Lorc^ 
Chesterfield is equally explicit in denouncing the vice, wher^ 
writing to his son at school, and though his out-spokerp- 
sentences are couched in language too old-fashioned for quo^ 
tation, they are well worthy of the attention of both parents 
and children. 

The gorging themselves with sweet-stuff at the confec- 
tioner's, as practised habitually by school-boys, and often hy 
girls when they get a chance, lays the foundation not only for- 
indigestion in after years, which is its least evil, but also for a- 
habit of indulgence which is a curse through life. A school- 
master who should effectually check this without needless 
restriction of liberty, and make greediness unfashionable- 
among his pupils, I would rank far above the most finished 

' Numbers xi. 34. 



CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH. 155 

M^holar in Europe. An important step towards it is to give 
>he boys enough to eat at regular meal-times. 

Yet is asceticism to bo equally eschewed with gluttony. 
rbe enjoyment of what is pleasant to the taste at proper times 
is quite consistent with, indeed usually goes along with, 
habitual temperance ; and one of the most practical lessons 
the world can teach is that pleasure is enhanced by self- 
restraint. 

Young people should not be brought up to the habit of 
taking physic. As a rule the British mother is very fond of 
dabbling in doctoring, and apt to try her first experiments on 
her own family. If there is any disease with a definite name 
to it discoverable, a professional man is called in ; but if a 
child is only weakly, or troubled now and then with unimpor- 
tant ailments, she tries this and that which has been recom- 
mended by her friends, without suspecting that the cause of 
the evil lies in some irrational regimen. The consequence of 
drugging is sometimes a positive organic lesion, generally a 
debilitated state of the digestion, and almost always a dis- 
position to fly, for the immediate relief of petty inconveniences, 
to drugs wliich in reality impede their cure, by preventing 
the use of more far-sighted means. Boys get laughed out of 
this at school, but girls are seldom so fortunate, and grow up 
with the idea that something which calls itself physic is a 
necessity of human life. Now in all the pharmacopoeias there 
is not a single active article which, joined to its virtues, has 
not the vice of deranging more or less gastric digestion. 
It is that which makes it a medicine and not a food. 
Assuredly its final effect in suitable cases is to restore diges- 
tion, by restoring health ; but when taken needlessly it can 
scarcely fail to be injurious. The proper place for the family 
medicine-chest is, not the bedroom or the boudoir, but the 
store-room, where there is some little trouble in getting at it, 
and where it should be locked up along with a lancet, a 
stomach-pump, and other provisions for emergencies to be 
applied by skilful hands. 



II 



I 



15: 



CHAPTER in. 

COMMERCIAL LIFE. 

The continually increasing numbers who devote themselves tO' 
Dommercial pursnits, and the still larger numbers whom they 
influence as dependents as they grow in importance, make the* 
habits of the class a matter of serious social consideration. 

The commercial man measures his usefulness in the world 
by his success in rapidly accumulating honest wealth. Honesty, 
therefore, being pre-supposed, the most conscientious is always. 
liable to the temptation of wishing to compress two days' work 
into one, so as to be rich in half the time taken by his neigh- 
'bours. To speak of this as a ' struggle for life,' is silly ; of 
thoso who labour hardest in our cities there are very few who 
'would not acknowledge that one-tenth of their anxious toil 
would supply the daily needs of themselves and families. 
They are in reality egged on by ambitious rivalry, which use& 
for its purposes that insatiable hunger for hard work innate 
in the British breast. The haste to be rich is most unwise^ 
and not only often defeats its own purpose by prematurely 
incapacitating the haster from further struggles, but if it ia 
successful, it robs middle life, or at least old age, of its occu- 
pation. 

A man whose unusual exertions have made him rick 
rapidly, is sure to have been too much engrossed by his 
business to take an interest in other things. He may have 
kept himself, as a duty, acquainted with the pursuits and 
sympathies of his fellows, but he is incapable of making them 



158 DIET IN HEALTH^ 

the occupation of his thoughts. He is driven to look to the 
past only for the genuine interest of life. 

Much more often the health suddenly breaks down before 
the desired object is attained, and the power is wanting to 
engage in other pursuits, to take the place of business, whicli 
is perforce given up. The expenditure of strength in the 
hurry to grasp wealth has resulted only in weakness and 
poverty. 

It was a piece of shrewd advice administered by an old 
merchant to a young one — * If you want to die rich, live as 
long as you can.' 

The most important rule for one engaged in any business 
which involves head work or responsibility is to strictly con- 
fine his business to its own times and places. Ketail shop- 
keeping of all employments allows the greatest number of 
hours to be occupied in attention to its interests ; for, if fairly 
prosperous, it does not exhaust the brain, and yet offers the 
gentle stimulus of movement and conversation. However, 
the principals of many large concerns of this kind are more 
heavily weighted, and if they want to enjoy health must draw 
a strict line between the hours devoted to money-making and 
those devoted to living, just as much as if they were merchants 
or manufacturers i 

The result of a neglect of this rule, the invariable end of 
bringing the counting-house into the dining-room and bed* 
Toom, is indigestion and sleeplessness. 

The principal meals should be breakfast and dinner* 
breakfast before and dinner after the work of the day. But 
a break in the middle for luncheon is very important, indeed i^ 
imperative npon all but exceptional cases. At breakfast and 
dinner animal food is necessary to a hard worker ; bnt it is not> 
required at luncheon, and often causes heaviness and feverish^ 
ness during the afternoon. Any large quantity of fat gC 
butter also is heating, especially if it is baked, as in pastry^ 
Farinaceous food, vegetables, fruit, should be the staple of 



COMMERCIAL LIFE. 159 

blie midday meal, with only so much of anything else as is 
viranted for a relish ; the less the better. 

Many commercial men give np vegetables because they 
find that taken at a mixed meal, along with meat, tbey cause 
flatulence. If they will separate the two classes of food which 
require the digestive powers of different and somewhat oppo- 
site solvents, the sahva and the gastric juice, if they will take 
vegetables at one meal and meat at another, they will often 
find the difficulty overcome, and full quantities of both digested 
without fermentation. 

The habitual use of stimulants in the middle of the day is 
to be deprecated ; nevertheless, where an unusual amount of 
cerebral exertion has been gone through, a cheerful glass of 
wine or beer will often prevent over-fatigue. Let not, however, 
the demand or the supply grow a daily habit. 

The daily use at dinner of a moderate amount of alcohol 
in some form, contributes, I am sure, to the health of brain- 
workers. Light perfect wine is the best form, next beer, next 
strong wine and water, last spirituous liquors. 

Commercial work can be done only in the town, and it 
must be confessed that town air and influences are not the 
most favourable to health. On this score many nowadays 
spend their nights at long distances from their place of busi- 
ness, so that no more time than is absolutely essential should 
be spent at a disadvantage. The success attendant upon this 
plan of residence in the country is closely proportioned to 
the earliness of the time of which business can be left. Unless 
an hour or two can be given to relaxation in the purer air 
before dinner, I do not think the labour of rushing backwards 
and forwards is compensated for. It is pleasant, doubtless, to 
«ee the junior branches of the family flourishing among green 
fields, but not when the bloom is gained by the exhaustion of 
-the bread-winner's strength. Those who can afford it will 
do better to fix their permanent residence near their work 
And live temporarily in the country for a few months during 
the long days. 



160 DIET IX HEALTH. 

Besides the reason mentioned above, another may be given 
for the long hours borne by retailers, namely, that their shops 
are better ventilated and lighted than most of even the 
wealthiest merchants' counting-houses. To pass from the 
magnificent dwelling of his wife and daughters to the dull 
stuffy den of many a prince of commerce, recalls the image of 
Samson grinding in the dark through the treason of his 
money-loving spouse. Things were not so bad when the 
family lived over the offices, and a softeuing female influence 
civilised the whole house. But now work and life seem to be 
seeking a divorce from one another, and the place of business 
is growing more and more gruesome, and, like another ill- 
omened locality, is not to bo alluded to in polite society. A 
ladies' mission for the improvement of these dwellings is 
urgently called for. Unlike other missions, it could dispense 
with promoters, secretaries, speeches, committees, snbscrip- 
tions, and collectors. Or rather, all these agencies united could 
embark in the family conveyance, or even in a one-horse fly> 
and begin operations at once with a builder and decorator as 
assessor. The scale of expenditure should bo proportioned to 
that of the other home ; it will probably add very little to the 
yearly bills, nothing in comparison to trailing skirts and spring 
bonnets. 

The healthiest exercise for a commercial man is riding, 
when it is possible. It diverts the thoughts, especially if the 
nag be skittish, prevents the stagnation of the abdominal 
blood- vefisels, and promotes a due flow of bile. But the out- 
side of an omnibus is better than nothing at all, and is within 
the means of everyone. Much walking is usually found too 
fatiguing, and if adopted as a duty is apt to be monotonous. 
Boating and cricket are suitable for the younger members of 
the commercial world, but they occupy more time than can 
often be spared, and have to be kept for holidays. Tie more 
violent athletic sports are open to still more objection, and if 
it is attempted to pursue them at the same time that the 
thoughts arc occupied in business, they exhaust the vital* 
powers, and weakness is the result. 



CHAPTER IV. 

LITERARY AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE. 

TThat dogmatic expression of Biichner's, * No thinking without 
phosphorus,' * has gained an unhappy notoriety. Strictly 
taken it is a groundless assumption, for it is impossible for us 
to have any evidence that intellectual being may not exist 
joined to any form of matter, or quite independent of matter 
at all. We certainly do not know enough of the subject to 
lay down a negative statement. And if it be held to mean 
that the amount of phosphorus passing through the nervous 
system bears a proportion to the intensity of thought, it is 
simply a mis-Statement. A captive lion, tiger, or leopard, or 
hare, who can have wonderfully little to think about, assimi- 
lates and parts with a greater quantity of phosphorus than a 
professor of chemistiy working hard in his laboratory ; while 
a beaver, who always seems to be contriving something, 
excretes so little phosphorus, at least in his urine, that chemical 
analysis cannot detect it.^ All that the physiologist is justified 
in stating is that for the mind to energize in a living body, 
that body must be kept living up to a certain standard, and 
that for this continuous renewal of life a supply of phosphatic 
salts is required. The same may be said with equal justice of 
water, &t, nitrogen, chloride of sodium, oxygen, &c. The 
phosphates are wanted indeed, but wanted by pinches, whilst 

> Okne Phosphor kein Gedanke, Kraft imd Stoff« sect. 122. 
' See the analyses of the several kinds of nxine in Simon's Chemistryr 
vol. ii. pp. 144, 342, and 350. 

M 



162 DIET IN HEALTH. 

water mnst be pouring in by pailfals. One might go oh 
thinking for weeks without phosphates, but without water a 
few days, and without oxygen a few minutes, would terminate 
the train of self -consciousness. The practical points tanght 
us by physiology are that for the integrity of thought the in- 
tegrity of the nervous system is requisite ; and for the integrity 
of the nervous system a due quantity of such food as contains 
digestible phosphatic salts. 

For the intellectual direction of the nervous system it is at 
the same time essential that it should not be oppressed by 
physical and mechanical difficulties. The presence in the 
stomach or blood of imperfectly assimilated nutriment impedes 
its functions in close proportion to their amount ; so that not 
only the chemical constituents, but the mode of administering 
food must come into the calculation. 

The most perfect regimen for the healthy exercise of thought 
is such as would be advised for a growing boy, viz. frequent 
small supplies of easily soluble mixed food, so as to supply the 
greatest quantity of nutriment without overloading the stomach, 
or running the risk of generating morbid half-assimilated pro- 
ducts. 

The physiology of the action of alcohol has a very practical 
bearing on the physical regimen of the mental fonctions. 
Alcohol has the power of curbing, arresting, and suspending 
all the phenomena coimected with the nervous system. We 
feel its influence on our thoughts as soon as on any other part 
of the man. Sometimes it brings them more completely under 
our command, controls and steadies them ; sometimes it con- 
fuses or disconnects them ; then breaks off our power and the 
action of the senses altogether. The firat effect is desirable, 
the others to be avoided. When a man has tired himself with 
intellectual exertion a moderate quantity of alcohol taken with 
food acts as an ansBsthetic, stays the wear of the system which 
is going on, and allows the nervous force to be diverted to the 
due digestion of the meal. But it must be followed by rest 
from mental labour, and is in fact a part of the same regimen 



LITERARY LITE. 163 

whict enforces rest — ^it is an artificial rest. To continue to 
labonr and at the same time to take the ansBsthetic is an in- 
consistency. It merely blunts the painful feeling of weariness, 
and prevents it from acting as a warning. I very much doubt 
the quickening or brightening of the wits which bacchanalian 
poets have conventionally attributed to alcohol. An abstainer 
in a party of even moderate topers finds their jokes dull and 
their anecdotes pointless, and his principal amusement consists 
in his observation of their curious bluntness to the groundless- 
ness of their merriment. 

There is no more fatal habit to a literary man than that of 
using alcohol as a stimulant between meals. The vital powers 
go on getting worn out more and more without their cry for 
help being perceived, and in the end break down suddenly, and 
often irrevocably. The temptation is greater perhaps to a 
literary man than to any other in the same social position, 
especially if he has been induced by avarice or ambition to 
work wastefully against time ; and if he cannot resist it, he 
had better abjure the use of alcohol altogether. 

As to quantity, the appetite for solid food is the best guide. 
If a better dinner or supper is eaten for a certain amount of 
fermented liquor accompanying it, that is the amount most 
suitable. If a worse, then it may be concluded that an excess ' 
is committed, however small the cup may be. 

Although nothing can take the place of alcohol in this 
article of diet, yet fermented drinks are not suited to the 
nervous system at all in proportion to their alcoholic contents. 
The fruity ethers and aromas evolved in the process of fer- 
mentation, and which do not seem capable of existing in a 
digestible form without alcohol, are even more powerful in 
repairing the waste of the nerve power. Burgundy has 
acquired a special fame as food for the brain, and claret runs 
it hard ; while good, sound, unadulterated beer is a homely 
creature little inferior to them. All of these are superior to 
sherry and port, and to spirits, for reasons given in a former 
chapter of this volume on the choice of food. 

li 2 



164 DIET IN HEALTH. 

Mental activity certainly renders the brain less capable of 
bearing an amount of alcohol which in seasons of rest and 
relaxation does not injuriously affect it. When any extra- 
ordinary toil is temporarily imposed, extreme temperance or 
even total abstinence should be the rule. Much to the point 
is the experience of Byron's Sardanapalus : — 

* The goblet I reserve fop hours of ease, 
I war on \ratcr.* 

The posture of the body usually adopted by literary and 
many professional persons engaged in writing is a matter 
worth consideration. Chamber counsel are notoriously sub- 
ject to piles and venous congestion of the rectum ; women 
who sit much with their work in front of them get also con- 
gestion and irregularity of the uterine organs ; cold feet from 
sluggish arterial circulation are frequently complained of by 
otherwise hearty sedentary workers. The ill health which 
these symptoms indicate may often be prevented by the nse 
of a high desk at which the work may be done standing for a 
time now and then ; and a further change of posture may be 
obtained by an easy chair, which will allow of thinking with 
the body thrown back, and by occasional walks about the 
room. 

Athletic sports are scarcely consistent with steady, hard 
brain work. Probably only the most muscular try to persist 
in them, and they acknowledge that their intellects arc 
readiest and strongest when they are taking quite moderate 
exercise, and not when their muscles are corky and their 
limbs light. There is a peculiar state of health into which 
these are apt to fall who, having for a long period kept 
themselves in training for boat-racing or other muscular 
exertion, afterwards adopt a Hfe which involves mental 
labour and responsibility, even though they get a fair amount 
of bodily relaxation. The leading symptoms are emaciation, 
weariness, depression of spirits, and an unnaturally high 
specific gravity in the urine, which is, however, abundant and 



LITERAEY LIFE. 165 

ftill-coloTLred, thus showing an excess of destructive assimila- 
tion which tMnnot but be veiy injurious. 

Fresh air and relaxation of mind are of more importance 
than exercise, which last is indeed mainly valuable as securing 
them. The limits of weariness should not be transgressed. 
The attempt to compensate for excessive literary toil by 
excessive bodily toil is based on a false conception of the rela- 
tions of matter and spirit, worthier of an ancient Gnostic 
than of a modem philosopher, which has more than once led 
to fatal results. I had for some years as a patient a literary 
lady who wrote much and well in magazines. She would go 
straight from her study to her garden and glebe, dig furiously 
and mow with a scythe, despising, or rather luxuriating, in 
fatigue. Gradually paralysis came on, showing itself first as 
* writer's cramp,' and then creeping over the whole body. 
The mind and senses were as perfect as ever, and so long as 
she was able to move the tongue she dictated lively monthly 
articles, and at last died apparently of sorrow at being unable 
to communicate her thoughts. 

Tobacco should not be indulged in during working hours. 
Whatever physiological effect it has is sedative, and so 
obstructs mental operations. But as a relaxation afterwards 
it is in moderation beneficial. As a calmative before retiring 
to rest it has the sanction of a vigorous brain-labourer, John 
Milton, whose supper, we are told, consisted of bread, water, 
olives, and a pipe of tobacco. There is a flavour about the 
fare of the happy days he had passed with an elegant literary 
circle in Italy. 

The daily habits of Bobert Southey, a man who more 
than any other made literature a healthy profession and a 
successful profession, are thus described by his son in his 
*Life,' vol. iii. 2 and vi. 6. 'Breakfiist was at nine, after a 
little reading, dinner at four, tea at six, supper at half-past 
nine, and the intervals filled up with reading or writing; 
except that he regularly walked between two and four, and 
took a short sleep before tea, the outline of his day when he 



166 PIET IN HEALTH. 

was in full Tvork will have been given. After supper, when 
the business of the day seemed to be over, though he generally 
took a book, he remained with his family, and was open to 
enter into conversation, to amuse and to be amused.' 

* My actions.' he writes about this time to a friend, * are 
as regular as those of St. Dunstan's quarter-boys. Three 
pages of history after breakfast (equivalent to five in small 
quarto printing) ; then to transcribe and copy for the press, 
or to make my selections and biographies, or what else suits 
my humour, till dinner-time; from dinner till tea I read, 
write letters, see the newspaper, and very often indulge in a 
siesta ; — for sleep agrees with me, and I have a good sub- 
stantial theory to prove that it must ; for if a man who walks 
much requires to sit down and rest himself, so does the brain, 
if it be the part most worked, require its repose. Well, after 
tea I go to poetry, and correct and re- write and copy till I am 
tired, and then turn to anything else till supper ; and this is 
my life — which, if it be not a merry one, is yet as happy as 
heart could wish.' 

And a very rational life it was, deserving of its reward. 
The country air and quiet among the lakes and mountains, the 
association with loving spirits, the old-fashioned dinner-hour 
excluding uncongenial society, the regular exercise, and the 
sound night's rest, with temperance, soberness, and chastity, 
preserved his mental powers fresh and vigorous in old age, to 
leave to future generations undying memorials of sympathy 
with all that is best in humanity. 

Milton describes himself as 'with useful and generous 
labours preserving the body's health and hardness, to render 
lightsome, clear, and not lumpish obedience to the mind, to 
the cause of rehgion and our country's liberty, when it shall 
require firm hearts in sound bodies to stand and cover their 
stations.' 

His blindness probably interfered with the activity of hia 
muscular discipline in later years, for he was a martyr to gout 
towards the end of his life. 



UTEKAEY LIFE. 167 

Samuel Johnson is another type of the literary man pure 
and simple. Scrofulous, awkward, hypochondriacal, and 
corpulent, he was averse naturally to bodily exertion, yet he 
walked a good deal, and worked steadily and patiently withont 
bursts of industiy or idleness. Passionately fond of company 
and of eating and drinking, he restrained himself, and indulged 
only when the labour of the day was over. His knowledge of 
physiology and medicine kept him from quackery, and hift 
medical advisers were the most rational physicians of the day. 
After middle life, his own observation of his health led him to 
abstain entirely from wine. I have heard my grandmother 
describe the air of dignified patience with which he passed 
the bottle which she often pressed upon him at her father's 
table. He sat up late at night indeed, yet that was not for 
work, but to rest the mind with sportive and varied conversa- 
tion. He had his reward in the retention of his mind, even 
vrhen its material organ had broken down. 

Shelley was a vegetarian, and his peculiar way of living, 
combined with the fact of not writing for a livelihood or to 
please others, estrauged his sympathies from human kind. 
But at all events, his temperance did not weaken his exuber- 
ance of thought and diction. What would have happened had 
lie consumed more phosphorus, it is impossible to say ; but he 
could hardly have been a more rapid composer or stronger 
"wielder of words. 

Walter Scott passed a genial sociable existence, took much 
exercise, dissuaded his younger friends from substituting gig- 
driving for riding, and always insisted on having seven or 
eight hours of utter unconsciousness in bed. Had he passed 
his whole life in his study, he would have written probably 
-worse, and certainly less, for he would have had a shorter life 
to write in. 

It is true that Byron assumes in his poetry the character 
of a debauchSy and says he wrote Don Juan under the in- 
spiration of gin and water. But much of that sort of talk is 
merely for stage effect, and we see how industrious he was. 



168 DIET IN HEALTH. 

and read of his traming yigoronsly to reduce corptdence, and 
of his being such an exceptionally experienced swimmer as to 
rival Leander in crossing the Hellespont. 

It is especially when the mind of genius is overshadowed 
by the dark cloud of threatened insanity, of hypochondriasis 
or of hysteria, that a rational regimen preserves it to the glory 
of God and the advantage of man. Noising but daily exer- 
cise, temperate meals, and a punctual observance of regular 
hours of study and rest, could have kept burning the flickering 
candle of reason in poor suicidal Gowper. Seldom do his 
writings exhibit a trace of the gloom which made life to liim, 
as he described it in his last words, ^ unutterable misery.' 

On the other hand, the keen poison of his own genius slew 
in youth Elirke White, when he surrendered himself to itn 
exclusive cultivation : — 

That eagle's fate and his were one, 
Who on the shaft that made him die 

Seheld a feather of his own, 

Wherewith he wont to soar so high. 

The elegant appreciator of nature, the author of ' The Seasons,' 
faded away from lazy and self-indulgent habits. The great 
aJl-loving soul of Bums produced so little because it was 
drenched in drink and idleness, not excessive indeed, but 
sufficient to ruin his usefulness. 

Ajpropos of this last matter, we may give to some people 
the same caution which Swifb administers in a letter to Pope : — 
' The least transgression of yours, if it be only two bits and a 
sup more than your stint, is a great debauch, for which you 
will certainly pay more than those sots who are carried dead 
drunk to bed.' 

To the lover of the Muses 

* A little 
More than a little is by much too much.' 

The machinery of sensitive souls is as delicate as it is valu- 
able, and cannot bear the rough usage which coarse customs 



LITEBAEY LIFE. 169 

inflict upon it. It is broken to pieces by blows which common 
natures langh at. The literary man, with his higbly-coltiyatedy 
iightly-stmng sensations, is often more than others susceptible 
of the noxions, and less susceptible of the beneficial results of 
alcohol. His mind is easier to cloud, and there is a deeper 
responsibility in clouding it. 

What noble fragments one finds in Savage and in Poe ! 
and how sad to know that they are fragments instead of 
stately structures, solely because the builders had not the 
wisdom to live regular lives. 

Equally when we descend into the lower regions of 
Parnassus, the abodes of talent and cleverness and the 
supply of periodical literary requirements, we find the due 
care of the body absolutely essential to the continued useful- 
ness of the intellect. The first thing to which one entering 
the profession of literature must make up his mind is to bo 
healthy, and he can only be so by temperance. 



■i:r 



171 



CHAPTER V. 

NOXIOUS TRADES. 

[lapter does not profess to comment on all the injarie» 
d by ill-applied bodily labour, bat solely on those which 
a the digestive viscera and the diet of the sufferer, 
mtents of the abdomen are liable to suffer from fche 
n assumed at work by certain handicraftsmen, and the 
fort hence arising often leads to the adoption of an un- 
ome dietary, which in the end intensifies the evil, 
explanation of the true cause is sometimes sufficient to 
.t disease in the younger workmen ; but the elders, 
; ingrained habits to fight against, can rarely be per- 
. to make a change, and the main hope lies in the action 
master. 

OEMAEEBS contract a peculiar sort of gastralgia, 
from the pressure of the last against the epigastrium, 
Hlj from the constriction of the abdominal viscera, es- 
y the stomach, by leaning so far forward to work. The 
the upright bench, in which the last is held firm by a 
), and an erect posture always preserved, is the best 
y for the evil, and the thanks of the country are due to 
mrkes Hall for his introduction of this method of getting 
difficulty as old as the Pharaohs at least. 
e discomfort which they cause in a sensitive condition 
I stomach causes vegetables to be avoided by many of 
asB. They can hardly bear to take sufficient to sustain 
. So long as this is the case they should eat as many 



172 DIET IN HEALTH. 

oranges and lemons as they can, or in default of them, fresh 
rhubarb, and try the plan proposed before of eating vegetables 
only at one meal and meat alone at another. A small quantity 
of watercresses is also a great resource. 

Against the constipation and hsBmorrhoids which the cross- 
legged attitude assumed by tailors induces the best preser- 
vativc is the free use of fresh butter, a cold tub every morn- 
ing, and an occasional dandelion pill. 

Sewing-machine workers are apt to suffer from pain under 
the left ribs and epigastrium, leading to loss of appetite and 
anaemia from the constrained sitting posture, inclined for- 
wards, to which they are kept for many hours. It may be 
presumed that the hours of work are inevitably long, and that 
little time can be allowed for meals — I fear we cannot alter 
that ; but no loss would accrue from change of posture 
within certain limits, and anyone who would arrange this 
would confer a great benefit on mechanical needlewomen. 
A simple contrivance for shortening or lengthening the legs 
of the instrument would enable the variations of position 
necessary to health to be made. 

Much of the dyspepsia of needlewomen of all sorts arises 
from tea-drinking. It induces a muculent state of stomach 
quite inconsistent with the proper digestion of food. More- 
over, a'great deal of the ill-health of all classes of town artisans 
is due to the closeness of their work-rooms, and a more 
philanthropic deed cannot be done for a helpless class than 
the bringing under the notice of the district health-officers 
instances of the violation of the law by masters. 

Gardeners often are afflicted with water-brash, arising in 
a measure from the stooping posture deranging the viscera 
which receive the food, especially the lower end of the guUet. 
But I think that an additional cause is frequently the bad 
cooking of the vegetables they eat. Half-boiled potatoes and 
cabbage are as injuiious as ill-prepaid oatmeal is found 
to be among populations which are nourished on that diet. 

The poisoning to which those who work in lead are ex- 



NOXIOUS TRADES. 173 

posed by their occnpation may be almost always prevented by 
scmptLlons cleanliness in taking food. There is abundant 
proof that the metal enters the system through the stomach, 
and there is bnt doubtful evidence of its entering by any other 
path. From dirty hands it gets into the bread, from dusty 
clothes it besprinkles the meat and drink, and thus acts as* 
quickly and surely as if it had been brought in by the more 
usual way of the drinking water. It is the most certain and 
noxious if by any peculiarity in the manufacture it is converted 
into a chloride salt, but the form which we generally meet' 
with is the white carbonate, insoluble indeed in water, but 
unfortunately soluble in the fluids of the digestive canal^ 
saturated as they are with carbonic acid. In the case of 
painters, who employ white lead, it is quickly deprived of some 
of its noxiousness by mixture with oil, for in that condition it 
can only get into the food from the hands. But where the 
finely-powdered or precipitated Kremnitz lead is employed, as 
for example in the manufacture of polished cards, the clothes 
become saturated with the dust, and convey it to the victuals. 
Not only should the hands be washed, the hair brushed, and 
the outer garment shifted, before meals, but the men should 
not be allowed to bring their food within the poison-laden 
atmospherei of the workshops. 

Plumbers are said to inhale lead in the fumes which arise 
in the process of casting, and ' brass-founders' ague * also 
appears from the researches of Dr. Qreenhow to be caused by 
the fumes of solder, consisting mainly of oxide of zinc, being 
drawn into the lungs. But it must be remembered that in 
both these handicrafts a great deal of dirt adheres to the skin 
and clothes, and may thus pass into the food. I have never 
seen clean men affected. 

Some handicrafts are noxious from the high tempera- 
ture at which they are obliged to be carried on. In these 
cases the frequent and free use of cold drinking water is 
sanctioned by experience as the best preservative of health ; the 
copious evaporation from the skin keeping down the heit of 



174 DIET IN HEALTH. 

the blood. And the most cruel enemy to health is alcohol- 






which induces degeneration of the liver, heart, or kidneys, o^ 
all these at once, and prevents at any rate the due exercise 
the lungs' functions, even if it does not directly disorganiz 
that tissue. My own impression is that the emphysema an 
black deposit so often found in the lungs of artisans exposei 
to gi'eat heat is in no small measure due to alcohol and to th^ 
neglect of its antagonist, water. 

For example, the consolidation and subsequent breaking- 
down of the lung peculiar to dry grinders is seldom if eve: 
found in temperate men ; a healthy mucous membrane has th 
power of rejecting the foreign particles of metal, which adher^^^*® 
to it when congested and degenerated. 

Colliers, who labour in the dark in a confined ho 
atmosphere deficient in oxygen, suffer from bloodlessness an< 
indigestion. The bonesetters, the popular practitioners amon 
this class, describe it as ' a little bone broke ' in the stomach, 
pummel the abdomen, and make the patient give up work and 
drink for a season with successful result. Philanthropic coaJ- 
owners should arrange the shifts so that a man may be put in 
turn on to night work and have his share of snnlight ; ' and 
it is better for the men not to eat in the pits, but to make 
their principal meals when off work. The diet of colliers is 
generally too nitrogenous for a life of daily muscular labour. 

Tea- TASTERS sometimes suffer from a special kind of nervous 
^affection. The hand gets tremulous, there is sleeplessness, 
head-ache, anaemia, indigestion, and the flabby tongue is oovered 
with a smooth yellow coat. To avoid this they should live 
well, and always take some food before exercising their ofi&ce. 
.Smelling the tea seems to be more injurious, and really less 
decisive, than sipping the infusion. 

Evils consequent on other trades are not mentioned here, 
■either because they are unconnected with diet, and not to be 
avoided by any special arrangement of diet, or else resolve 
ihemselves simply into temptations to intemperance. 



175 



CHAPTER VI. 

ATHLETIC TRAINiyG. 

Aj{E the dramatist and the novelist drawing from natoro when 
they present ns a picture of a well-bom and well-brod athlot-o, 
^tapid, immoral, selfish, case-hardened by his brute strength 
-^gidnst the finer emotions of pity and honour, and blind to 
intellectual pleasures ? If the original exists, ho is happily 
Very rare. He is certainly not conspicuous in tho list of 
2D4i rowers in University races collected by Dr. Morgan, which 
on the other hand is adorned with bishops, poets, public school 
masters, leading barristers, devoted clergymen, elegant orators, 
scientific chemists, philanthropists, and other ornaments of tho 
liuman race.^ Eminent muscular ability evidently is not in- 
consistent with a superiority to the average in other respects, 
and the improvement of the body does not prevent tho improve- 
ment of the mind. 

A charge more serious, because more troublesome to answer, 
against athletics, is that they lay a foundation for disease iu 
after years, and thus shorten life. Likely enough the specta- 
tors know that the dropping down dead on the stage of an 
athlete, apparently in the height of healthy vigour, is a gross 
misrepresentation of nature. But yet the scene rankles in 
their memories, and they can with difficulty divest thomsolvcs 
of the feeling that the exuberant energy of a man in training 
wears out the vital forces, and is repaid by weakness which 
will cut short the days. We may know that tho impression 
•exists by the frequency with which the friends of patients 

' University Oars, by John R Morgan, M.D. 



176 DIET IN HEALTH. 

assign athletics as the cause of all sorts of diseases without 
any other reason than that the failure in health was first 
made manifest during some bodily exertion. Of course it is 
during bodily exertion that the discovery is made : no one 
finds out that his legs are weak till he tries to walk, or that 
his lungs or heart are injured till his wind fails him at a pinch. 
But that a man previously in good health injures his constitu- 
tion by training, so as to be more liable than ordinaiy persons 
to any peculiar class of disease or degeneration, is negatived 
by the laborious investigations of Dr. Morgan. He has 
followed up with personal enquiries the 294 * university oars ' 
mentioned above, and he finds, as was to be expected, that 
since 1829, when his list begins, some have died, some have 
been killed, some have fallen into ill health, but 238 survive 
to describe themselves as hearty and strong. Of the deaths 
(39 in all) 11 were from, fevers, 7 firom consumption, 6 from 
accidents, 3 from heart disease, and lesser numbers from other 
special causes. Now it is heart disease which especially is 
attributed to athletic sports, and it is a surprise to find statistics 
showing that their patrons have suffered from it rather less 
than the rest of the population, and much less than 
the sailors whom we are so solicitous to keep in good 
health.^ Deaths from fevers certainly cannot be considered 
as evidence of an injured constitution ; indeed. Dr. Gkraves, of 
Dublin (a high authority in this matter) remarks, and the ex- 
perience of most of us will bear him out, that when zymotic 
diseases attack strong men the risk is greater than is ran by 
weaker frames. The end of 2 by drowning, and 3 by gun-shot 
wounds, shows the possession of energy and unselfish courage^ 
seldom the characteristics of a broken invalid. The cases of 
the 17 who do not frimish a good account of their health are 
mostly somewhat vague. Among so many, several must have 
hereditary tendencies to disease ; others say their medical 

* Mortality from heart disease in Begistrar-Gen, Beports for 10 years, 
8 per cent. ; in navy (1868), 13 per cent. ; among university oars, 6 J per 
cent. — TInivemty Oars, p. 28. 



ATHLETIC TRAINING 177 

attendants trace no connection between their complaints and 
previous muscnlar exertion, and in such a long period as forty 
years innumerable evil influences must bave been in action ; 
while in some families it seems traditional always to speak of 
their health as only moderate, and in others to look back upon 
the exuberances of their youth as follies. So the 17 out of 294 
is in fact a small number to be occasionally falling into the 
hands of the physician. 

Dr. Morgan calculates that the expectation of life at 20 
years of age of these university oarsmen was 42 years. Now 
according to Dr. Farr's Life Tables for Insurance the averago 
expectation of life at 20 is 40 years. So that any office which 
had accepted the batch at the ordinary rate would have reason 
to congratulate itself on having an extraordinarily good lot. 
And the conclusion is inevitable, that for young men in good 
health severe athletic training strengthens the constitution 
and lengthens life. 

It will of course strike everyone that our example here is 
taken from a specially select class of humanity. True, the 
fame of the university would not be entrusted to ono likely to 
break down and disappoint his colleagues. And herein lies a 
great advantage possessed by boat-racing above other athletic 
sports, namely, that it is to the interest of all concerned to 
exclude from the practice those who are likely to be injured 
by it. For that some are likely to be injured is never denied ; 
and it probably would be wise if the crews, instead of 
acting solely on their own responsibility, were to insist on all 
who joined them having their fitness to undergo training 
tested by a medical man. Mr. Maclaren says he woxdd not 
allow anyone to pull in a college boat whose chest measured 
less than 36 inches, but it is evident that such an absolute 
rule must be fallacious, for the circumference of the chest 
must bear in a well-built man a proportion to the height. 
The better test is the vital capacity or aerial contents of the 
lungs, which Dr. Hutchinson's spirometer and tables enable 
us to measure accurately. 



178 DIET IN HEALTH. 

Other forms of athletics have not the same safeguard. 
But still, the good sense of Englishmen is such that a lad 
very quickly finds out, or is told by his comrades, if any- 
thing renders the ambition of distinction in bodily exercise 
unsuitable for him. Where there is any suspicion of this 
being the case, parental authority may fairly be interposed. 

It is not necessary that everyone who trains should aim 
it being, or even wish to be a distinguished athlete. There 
are modified forms, or rather degrees, of the same process, 
which cannot be trusted indeed to produce the extraordinary 
development of nerve force needful for successful boat-racing 
and the like, but which nevertheless bring the body into a 
state of high health, very conducive to comfort and usefulness. 
For girls, as well as for boys, rowing is a capital exercise ; 
but safety requires that they should also learn to swim. 

Intellectual pursuits during training should be very mode- 
rate and (so to speak) mechanical. Hard head-work should 
not be carried on at the same time as hard training. It should 
be gradually given up at the beginning, and resumed gradually 
after the training has been gone through. But there is no 
reason why the systematic cultivation of the mind and body 
should not alternate to their joint advantage, and indeed it 
evidently has done so in the case of many of Dr. Morgan's 
cases, whose names make a conspicuous appearance in the 
class lists of classical and mathematical honours.^ 

The usual time allotted to training is six weeks. The 
objects to be attained in this period may be described as : — 

1. The removal of superfluous fe.t and waters 

3. The increase of contractile power in the muscles. 

3. Increased endurance. 

4. ' Wind,' that is, a power of breathing and circulating 

the blood steadily in spite of exertion. 

* The 294 university oarsmen include, at Oxford 6 firsts and 11 seconds 
in classics, 1 first and 2 seconds in mathematics ; at Cambridge 1 firsts 
and 5 seconds in classics, 8 wranglers and 21 senior optimes in mathe- 
matics. 



ATSLETIC TKAININa. 179 

The first object is aimed by considerably adding to the 
daily amount of nitrogenous and diminishing farinaceous and 
liquid food, and providiag that it should be so consumed as to 
be fully digested. The second and third are secured by 
gradually increasing the demands made upon the muscles, till 
they have learnt to exert at will all the powers of which they 
a.re capable, and for as long a period as the natural structure 
of the individual permits. Wind is improved by choosing as 
part of the training an exercise, such as running, which can be 
sustained only when the respiratory and circulating organs do 
their duty fairly. 

The muscles of the limbs become under a regimen of this 
kind more « corky,' or elastic, and more prominent when *put 
.up ' in a state of contraction. They improve in quality and 
efficiency, but they are not larger, and consequently not 
heavier, when measured in a state of repose. Were this the 
case we shoidd find the legs of the ballet-dancer and the arms 
of the blacksmith grown out of all proportion to their other 
•extremities. But observe the photographs of the former 
. which in hundreds vulgarise our shop- windows, and you will 
see a corresponding development of all limbs ; this, if good, 
has been the cause rather than the consequence of adopting 
the occupation. And go to some steel-puddling works, and 
you see equally bare upper extremities, which in their 
occasional repose are not inharmonious with the brawny 
Vulcan's calves and thighs. Ko anatomical museum, can show 
a specimen of healthy enlarged muscle, for in point of fact 
-» hypertrophy ' is a morbid process, and the part it affects is 
weaker in contraction, as we feel in hypertrophied hearts. 
Let not the trainer look for any enlargement of a muscle 
beyond that which its middle exhibits in a stat^ oF6pntraction 
at the expense of the two ends, and which is evidence of 
active innervation rather than of organic change. 

The skin of the trained man becomes soft and smooth, and 

apparently more translucent, so that the red bloom of youth 

fihines through it more brilliantly. The insensible perspiration 

ir 2 



180 DIET IN HEALTH. 

is regnlar and even ; while at the same time sweating is not 
so readily induced by bodily exertion, and it is never cold and 
sndden, even with mental excitement. 

Superflnons &t is removed from all parts of the person, as 
is evinced by loss of weight. This requires to be careftilly 
tested by the scales from time to time ; for if the reduction be 
carried beyond a certain point, which varies in different men, 
a loss of the power of endurance is felt, and probably future 
evil results may arise. This point is technically called the 

* fighting weight,' but the observation of it need not be con- 
fined to the pugilistic trade. 

Training increases wonderfully the vital capacity of the 
chest, so that a much greater quantity of air can be blown in 
and out of the lungs, and with a greater force than previously. 
And this vital capacity endures longer than any other of the 
improvements, for I have found in examination for insurance 
several dieuts, formerly in training, but who had laid aside 
violent exercise for some years, still retaining that mark of 
vigour to a considerable extent above the average. It is 
evidence of the permanent elasticity of the pulmonary tissue, 
an efficient protection against asthma, emphysema, and other 
degenerations of the organ of breathing. 

Indigestion, acidity of stomach, sleeplessness, weariness 
of life, nervous indecision, dyspeptic palpitations, and irregu- 
larity of the bowels, disappear under training. But if they 
exist, the regimen should be entered upon with more than 
usual caution and under medical advice. 

The following were the systems pursued at the universities 
in 1866, as given by Mr. Maclaren in the Appendix to the 

* Training in Theory and Practice,' and I believe they are still 
adopted by boating-men. 



ATHLETIC TRAININa. 



181 



THE OXFORD SYSTEM. 
Summer Races, 



A Day's T&aininq. 



Bise about 7 ▲.![. « 




So as to be in chapel. 






but early rising not 






compulsory. 


Exercise . . • 


A short walk or run . 


Not compulsory. 


Breakfast, 8.30 


Meat, beef or mutton . 


Underdone. 




Bread, or dry toast 


The crust only recom- 






mended. 




J.ea • • • • 


As little as possible 






rec6mmended. 


Exercise (forenoon) • 


None. 




Dinner, 2 p.m. • 


Meat, much the same as 






for breakfast . 






Bread • • . . 


Crust only recom- 
mended. 


t 


Vegetables (none al- 






lowed) • • 


A rule, however, not 
always adhered to. 




Beer, 1 pint. 




Exercise • • • 


About 6 o'clock, start 






for the river, and row 






twice over the course,' 






* the speed increasing 


• 




with the strength of 






the crew.' 




Supper, 8.30 or 9 • 


Meat, cold. 






Bread ; perhaps a jelly 






or watercresses. 






Beer, 1 pint 




Bed about 10 







Sleep • 
Exercise . 
Diet • 



• « 

Sv/mmary, 

• About 9 hours. 

. Walking and rowing about one hour. 

. Very limited. 



' The length of the course is nearly a mile and one-eighth. 



182 



• DIET IN HEALTH. 



IVinter Races. 



A Day's Tbainixo. 



Rise about 7.30 a.m. 




Early rising not com- . 
pidsory. 


Exercise • » « 




Not compulsory. - 


Brealcffist, 9 . • 


As for summer races. 


« . 


Exercise (forenoon) . 


None. 


• 


Luncheon about 1 tm. 


Bread or a sandwich. 
Beer, half a pint. 




Exercise • • 


About 2 o'clock start for 


1 


• 


the river, and row 


i 




twice over the course 


Crews are taken over j 
the* long course to 
Nuneham, perhaps 




• • • • 


twice during their 


Dinner at 5, in Hall . 


Meat as for summer 
races. 

Bread. 

Vegetables as for sum- 
mer races. 


practice. 




Pudding (rice), a jelly 


. • • 




Beer, half a pint. 




Bed, 10.30 


! 





N»B. — ^It is particularly impressed on men ii^ training that as little 
liquid as possible is to be drunk, water being strictly forbidden. 



Sleep 

Exercise 

Diet 



Suwtmary, 

* > As for summer races. 

• Nearly the same as for summer races ; luncheon 

being about equiralent to supper. 



ATHLETIC TRAINING. 



183 



THE CAMBRIDGE SYSTEM. 
Summer Baces, 



A Day's Training. 



Rise at 7 a.m. 
Exercise • 



Breakfast, 8.30 



Exercise (forenoon) 
Dinner about 2 f.m. 



Exercise 



Supper about 8.30 or 9 



Bed at 10. 



Run 100 or 200 yards 
* as fast as possible ^ . 



Meat, beef or mutton* . 

Toast, dry. 

Tea, two cups, or to- 
wards the end of 
training a cup and a 
half only. Water- 
cresses occasionally. 

None. 

Meat, beef or mutton. 

Bread. 

Vegetables, potatoes, 
greens • . 

Beer, 1 pint. 

Dessert, — Oranges or 
biscuits, or figs; wine, 
two glasses. 

About 5.30 start for the 

river, and row to the 

starting-postand back. 

Meat, cold. 

Bread. 

Vegetables — lettuce or 
watercresses. 

Beer, 1 pint. 



*The old system of 
running a mile or 
so before breakfast 
is fast going out, 
except in the case 
of men who want 
to get a good deal 
of flesh oflf.' 

Underdone. 



Some colleges have 
baked apples, or 
jellies, • or rice- 
puddings. 



Summary, 

Sleep Nine hours. 

Exercise About an hour and a quarter.^ 

Diet • Limited. 

N.B. — On Sundays men generally take a long walk of five or six miles. 

' The course is a trifle longer than at Oxford, and there is a pull of 1 j- 
milo to get to it. 



184 



DIET IN HEALTH. 



Winter Races, 



A Day's Teainino. 



Bise about 7 a.m. 

Exercise 

Breakfast, 8.50 . . . 

Exercise (forenoon) 

Luncheon about 1 p.m. . 



Exercise • 

Dinner about 5 or 6 
Bed about 10. 



Sleep • 
Exercise . 
Diet 



As for summer races. 



f> 



None. 

A little cold meat. 

Bread. 

Beer, half a pint, or biscuit with a glass 

of sherry ; perhaps the yolk of an egg 

in the sherry. 
About 2 o'clock start for the river and 

row over the course*and back. 
As for summer races. 



Summari/, 

* > Same as for summer races. 

. Nearly the same as for summer races, luncheon 
being about equal to supper. 



There is nothing very terrible in the discipline here 
enforced, while some latitude is permitted to peculiarities and 
a wish for variety, and plenty of time is left for business and 
social intercourse. Other plans are objectionable from in- 
volving, without any resulting advantage that I can see, a 
complete houleversement of the usual times and seasons 
adopted by the upper and middle classes in this country. For 
example, in Clasper's method dinner is to be at 12 o'clock, with 
nothing more than a very light tea afterwards, and no supper. 
Then a country walk of four or five miles is to be taken before 
breakfast, and a couple of hours' row after, and another hard 
row between dinner and tea.* * Stonehenge,' again, requires 
the time between breakfast and dinner to be spent entirely in 
billiards, skittles, quoits, rowing and running, in spite of 



Quoted by Mr. Maclaren from Howing Almanac for 1863. 



ATHLETIC TRAININQ. 185 

another hour's row being prescribed at 6 p.m. He also 
requires the aspirant to athletic honours to sleep bietween ten 
and eleven hours.* Only professionals are likely to carry oat 
such rales. The most donbtfnl point which a physiological 
critic would lay his finger upon is the exaggerated abstinence 
from flnids recommended in the Oxford scale. The use of 
water to the extent of the thirst felt by the individual pro- 
motes the vital renewal of the skin, kidneys, and digestive 
viscera, and cannot be injurious. But it should not be very 
cold, or swallowed in great quantities at once on a full 
stomach, or after extraordinary exertion, lest it should lower 
too much the bodily temperature. If the mouth be first 
rinsed out, and the draught imbibed calmly and deliberately, 
it quenches thirst much better than when rudely gulped, and 
is not likely to be taken in excess. 

It is probably not necessary in the present day to enforce 
sufficient tubbing to keep the skin clean and fresh. It is in 
fact more necessary to deprecate excess in the use of cold 
water. If a bath is taken between exercise and a meal, the 
chill should at least be taken ofi^, for there has been a con- 
siderable loss of temperature by perspiration, and more can- 
not be afibrded. The use of a cold bath is to contract the 
cutaneous arteries, and by throwing the blood back suddenly 
on the heart and lungs to stimulate them to increased reaction, 
so that the living stream should flow vigorously to the extre- 
mities. If the skin is already pale and cool, as after exertion,, 
it shows that they are already contracted, and rather demand 
relaxation. The time for a cold bafch is when the skin is idiU 
coloured, dry, and warm. 

Nothing is said here of the training of jockeys and others 
whose object is to reduce their weight to its extreme minimum, 
irrespectively of augmenting the strength, as that cannot be 
recommended on the score of attaining high health, nor i3 it 
likely to be voluntarily undertaken by healthy persons. 

' Article 'Boat-racing * in British Sural Sjports^ 1861. 



186 DIET IN HEALTH. 

The university scheme may fairly be accepted as a typical 
regimen for fully developing a young man's corporeal powers 
to fulfil the demands of an extraordinary exertion. It is a 
standard which wo may modify according to the circumstances 
for which the training is required. 

Thus, for instance, in training for the moors or for the 
thorongh enjoyment of partridge-shooting, the reduction of 
fat should not be carried so far, as steady endurance for many 
days together is required, and a treasure of adipose tissue as a 
basis of molecular growth must be retained. Butter may be 
allowed, milk in the tea, and eggs as a change for the lean 
meat at breakfast. For men who have got into middle life 
running is needlessly troublesome, and quick walking may be 
substituted both for that and for the rapid rowing. Never- 
theless, the times should be observed strictly, and the amount 
of the walking may be raised gradually np to that wanted for 
the day's sport. It will be necessary, however, to allot to 
exercise a considerable longer time than is allotted in the 
college training scheme. For it must be remembered that 
quick rowing for an hour is a violent exertion, and takes more 
out of a man, and practises the wind better than four hours' 
walking. The chest may be expanded by the employment of 
light dumb-bells or clubs (if heavy they strain the muscles). 
And the healthy action of the skin should be promoted by 
friction with rough towels and horse-hair gloves. 

The number of hours allotted to bed in the university 
schemes is too much for the purpose now proposed. Seven hours 
is quite enough, and if the person under training wants to retire 
before midnight, he ought to be astir before the time men- 
tioned above. There are few things more weakening than 
remaining in bed, or even in a bedroom which has been closed 
during the night, when thoroughly woke up. During sleep 
little air is required ; we all know the slow shallow breathing 
of a sleeper, by which the respiratory muscles are rested. 
Beasts get enough oxygen in their narrow dens, and man in 
bis f U3ty garret. But once awake, both expand their lungs 



ATHLETIC TRAINING. 187 

fully, instinctively demand fresh air, and snffer from tho 
want of it more at that bonr than at any other time during 
the day. If a Sybarite must indulge in the horizontal position, 
let him at all events open his window and take his tub before 
he does so. 

The time of the training should not be so long as six weeks; 
for in point of fact it is carried on by the exercise of the sport, 
and if such an extended period as used for boat-racing he 
adopted, there is a risk of over- doing the discipline. A fort- 
night is quite enough for the purpose. 

To those of our countrymen and women who have not the 
opportunity or inclination for spending their holiday in what 
is commonly called * sport,' the fashion of mountaineering i» 
a great boon. And even sportsmen, during the dead season,, 
when there is nothing to be killed, experience a compensation 
in finding something to go up. But a great deal of the 
advantage of the relaxation is often lost by not being already 
in training. At least the first week is wasted in getting inte 
condition, and is a period of as much pain as pleasure. This 
may bo obviated by a gradual adoption of the diet and 
discipline, modified as above, for a week or ten days before 
starting. 

The pain in the back and sides which hunting men often 
experience at the commencement of the season arises usually 
from imperfect expansion of the lungs in ordinary breathing. 
The muscles of the trunk are strained by the efibrt of expira- 
tion during exercise. The inconvenience may be prevented 
by a partial training. The diet should bo drier than usual, 
and all sweets and pastry left off, the chest expanded by 
dumb-bells and running, and the habit acquired of keeping 
the lungs as full of air as possible. Women, being weaker- 
muscled than men, often feel this pain to the extent of giving 
up altogether the healthy amusement of riding. The simple 
adoption of modified training gets over the difficulty. The 
dumb-bells should be used in private before putting on 



188 DIET. IN HEALTH. 

etajs, and particular attention paid to the injunction of 
thorouglily inflating the lungs. 

It used to be the custom before the commencement of a 
course of training to be bled, purged, and sweated. I do not 
think it of any service, and it induces constipation of the 
bowels, besides being weakening. Some take Turkish baths 
during athletic training, but they appear to derange the daily 
discipline, unless they are taken every day, which would be a 
decided excess. 

Ladies who are going to try training for athletic purposes 
•will find some attention to costume expedient. No portion 
of the garment should restrain the movements of the 
shoulders. Swing the arms round and round with a dumb- 
bell, and if the skin is chafed, or anything is heard to crack, 
give more room. Stays should fit close on the hips, and 
fihould of course have no shoulder-straps, till you are a 
grandmama. The drawers should not come below the knee, 
and should hang loose.^ The best defences to the lower 
extremities in rough ground are stout alpine shoes, and light 
leathern gaiters half way up to the knee supporting the long 
socks without garters. A woollen jersey should be worn next 
the skin. The skirt of the dress should be short and narrow, 
and the best materials are serge and homespun. Besides 
these the less drapery is worn the better. 

The form of a well-made woman's skeleton renders it 
inevitable that she should be heavier than a man of the same 
height. Let her remember this, and not try to carry reduction 
too far. 

Men as well as women must be warned that it is easy to 
carry reduction too far. After over-severe discipline athletes 
describe themselves as * fallen to pieces.' The most peculiar 
symptom is an occasional attack of sudden loss of power 

* There is a very good pattern for an athletic lady's suhligacula in a 
email bas-relief of a falling Amazon in the Elgin Eoom at the British 
Museum, (a marble shield Trith a Gorgon's head in the centre, &om the 
fitrangford Collection, labelled *Michaelis, p. 283.'). 



ATHLETIC TRAININa. 189 

after exertion. It is sometimes called 'fainting,' but there is 
no loss of sense, as in that state, and it is quickly relieved by 
liquid food. It is, pathologically, an acute and most timely 
warning of that consequence of overstrained muscle which 
constitutes * writers V * turners',' and ' blacksmiths' ' palsy, and 
which results in fatty degeneration, as is often seen in the 
similarly strained muscle of the heart, which has been cramped 
in its action by adhesions or lesed valves. The obviona 
remedy is to leave off training. 

The exercise and excitement combined of practising for 
boat-racing will sometimes induce palpitations of the heart. 
A physician should be consulted as to whether this arises from 
an organic cause ; if it does not, rest and a purge or two 
should be taken before a resumption of training; and it 
will be well to add a moderate quantity of port wine to the 
dietary. K the palpitations still return, there is no help for 
it but to give in and acknowledge that nature has not cut out 
everyone to the pattern of an athlete. 

The unusual stimulation of the sweat-ducts sometimes 
induces boils. The best preventive is to anoint the skin with 
a little sweet oil after the morning bath. If a spot gets 
tender and red, threatening a boil, touch it lightly every day 
with nitrate of silver, and give bark and chlorate of potass 
twice a day in the usual doses. (Decoct Cinch, fl. ^j. FoL 
Chlor, gr. xv.) 

A modification of training of considerable importance to 
notice is that which contemplates the reduction of superflaous 
plumpness, either for the sake of the appearance, or the 
general comfort of the sufferer. There may be a question 
whether the health is benefited by it, unless the previous diet 
or habits have been irrational and improper. 

Corpulence usually prevents exercise being taken to a 
sufficient extent for confidence to be placed in it as an efficient 
part of the treatment, and therefore the diet becomes a more 
essential feature. If an exhausting amount of bodily exertion 
be persisted in, the digestion of meat is interfered with, while 



190 DIET IX HEALTH. 

at the same time the absorption of such fat as unavoidably 
exists in the food still goes on, so that the muscles and nerves 
lose strength, while the adipose tissue grows. Besides this, 
if by violent means the weight is worked down, those violent 
means must be continuously sustained to keep it down ; and 
if they are neglected in consequence of more absorbing 
occupations, the inconvenience rapidly increases to a greater 
degree than ever. Many uncomfortably stout persons are 
very active in mind and body, and really could not add to 
their muscular discipline without risk of injury. 

The following may be taken as a modification of the train- 
ing regimen suitable for the reduction of corpulence. 

Daifs regimen for a three weehs* course. 

Rise at 7, rub the body well with horse-hair gloves, have 
s, cold bath, and take a short turn in the open air. Breakfast 
(alone) at 8 or 8.30, on the lean of beef or mutton, cutting off 
-the fat and skin, dry toast, or biscuit, or oat-cake, a tumbler 
of claret and water or tea without milk or sugar, or made in 
the Russian way with a slice of lemon. Lunch at 1 on bread 
or biscuit, Dutch cheese, salad, watercresses, or roasted 
.apples (without sugar or cream), hung beef, or anchovies, or 
red herring, or olives, and guch-like relishes. Drink, after 
eating, claret and water, or unsweetened lemonade, or plain 
water, in moderation. Dinner at any convenient hour. Eat 
no soup, fish, or pastry, but plain meat, of any kind except 
pork, rejecting the fat and skin. Spinach, French beans, or 
£iny other green vegetable may be taken, but no potatoes, 
made-dishes, or pastry. , A jelly or a lemon- water ice or a 
roast apple must suffice for sweets and dessert. Claret and 
water at dinner, and one glass of sherry or Madeira after- 
wards. 

Between each meal exercise, as a rule, in the open air, to 
the extent of inducing perspiration, must be taken. Running, 
when practicable, is the best form in which to take it. 



ATHLETIC TEAINING. 191 

If good Turkish, baths are accessible, four or five may be 
used in place of exercise between meals at intervals daily during 
this reductive training. And tborougb shampooing by an 
experienced hand should not be omitted. 

The use of Liquor Potasses in doses of from 10 to 20 
minims in water three times a day, has in some cases proved 
serviceable. It should be left off immediately that the urine 
becomes alkaline. 

The weight is to be accurately recorded at the commence- 
ment of the treatment and every four days, so that its loss may 
not be too rapid or excessive. Six or seven pounds are usually 
as much as it is prudent to lose during the fortnight. 

A more important sign of improvement is increased vital 
capacity of the lungs as measured by the spirometer. 

After the fortnight's course the severe parts of the discipline 
may be gradually omitted, but it is strongly recommended to 
modify the general habits in accordance with the principle of 
taking as small a quantity as possible of fat and sugar, and of 
the substances which form fat and sugar, and sustaining the 
respiratory function. Fat meat, rich milk, butter, malt 
liquors, pastry, starchy foods (such as potatoes, puddings), 
sweet vegetables (such as parsnips and beet-root), sweet 
wines (such as champagne) should be taken only most 
sparingly. An appetite should be acquired for lean meat, 
especially for beef, mutton, and venison, for game and poultry, 
for plain boiled fish, for poor new cheese, for green vegetables 
And salads, summer fruits, oranges, lemons, and pomegranates, 
almonds (fried and sprinkled with salt and cayenne), roast 
apples, olives, lemonade, buttermilk, claret, and hock. 
Aerated bread, captain's biscuits, and dried toast, all in 
moderation, are the most appropriate form of flour. 

Where obesity is congenital, or acquired before puberty, it 
cannot be removed by the means mentioned above ; indeed it 
<jan seldom even be usefully reduced. 



193 



CHAPTER VII. 

HINTS FOR HEALTHY TBAVELLERS. 

A MODERATE cotLTse of training is a good preparation previous 
to travelling, for business or pleasure, or for active military 
service; but it is well in these cases not to let the dietary 
become habitually too limited or careful. It is convenient to 
be able to eat without repugnance any food capable of sup- 
plying nutriment, even though dirty, ill-cooked, or of strange 
nature. There is often a choice only between that and going 
without. 

When actually on a carriage or railway journey it is unwise 
to make large meals. They are sure to be swallowed in a 
hurried manner, and in a state of heat and excitement very 
unfavourable to digestion. The best way is to make no meal 
at all till the journey is over, but to carry a supply of cold 
provisions, bread, eggs, chickens, game, sandwiches, Cornish 
pasties, almonds, oranges, captain's biscuits, water, and sound 
red wine, or cold tea, sufficient to stay the appetites of the 
party, and let a small quantity be taken every two or three 
hours. 

If this plan be adopted, not only is activity of mind and 
body preserved, but that heat and swelling of the legs which 
so often concludes a long day's journey is avoided. Attention 
to the matter is particularly necessary when the journey 
continues all night, and for several days in succession, since 
varicose veins and permanent thickening of the ankles have 





194 DIET IN HEALTH. 

sometimes resulted from this exertion being combined with 
too long fasts and hnrried repletion at protracted intervals. 

The less stimnlant a traveller consumes before he arrives 
at his sleeping place the better. Then the habitual allowance 
is of advantage. If a good wine is made in the country he 
is passing through, he will probably prefer to fare the same 
as his hosts; if not, Bordeaux and Burgundy are the best 
vintages when procurable, and Marsala in Italy. 

In France and Germany very good local beer is to be 
obtained, but landlords seem to object to its being publicly 
used as a beverage. "We ought to insist on our rights as 
tourists on this point. In apple districts cider is usually 
placed on the table gratis, and makes a good substitute for 
doubtful water. 

The water is very apt to disagree with tourists, especially 
in volcanic, basaltic, mountainous, and marshy districts. A 
pocket filter is a great protection, and boiling the water makes 
all organic matters harmless and gets rid of the greater part 
of the lime. But neither of these expedients remove the 
neutral and alkaline salts, which will sometimes act as a 
purgative. 

In almost all country places out of England it is impossible 
to avoid the greasy dishes which are apparently preferred by 
all except our own countrymen ; and a frequent consequence 
is rancid indigestion, with nauseous taste in the mouth, and 
flatulence or diarrhoea. A few drops of vinegar or lemon- 
juice and a little cayenne pepper in the plate are the readiest 
correctives. 

Another article of cuisine that offends the bowels of unused 
Britons is garlic. Not uncommonly in southern climes an egg 
with the shell on is the only procurable animal food without 
garlic in it. Flatulence and looseness are the frequent results. 
Bouilli, with its accompaniments of mustard sauce and water 
melon, is the safest resource, and not an unpleasant one, after 
a little education. 

By special favour potatoes can usually be obtained boiled 



HINTS FOB TRAVEL. 195 

witli tlieir jackets on (en chemise)^ but unless asked for are 
seldom produced. 

Raw ham will be avoided by all sane travellers who have 
heard of the frequency with which it is infected with live 
measle-worm and trichina spiralis. 

Rosined wine is an acquired taste; and the British 
pedestrian, when he first quenches his thirst at a Tuscan farm 
or rustic inn, is apt to exclaim that the landlord has drawn 
the wine in a varnish pot, and to sneer at the balsamic Vmo 
Vermuth, But it is a taste well worth acquiring by thirsty 
souls in warm climates, and to be patronised by philan- 
thropists,^ fbr there is no doubt that the wholesomeness of 
many Greek and Italian native drinks is owing to their pre- 
servation from decay and secondary fermentation by rosin, in 
place of fiery and fuselly spirit. The large quantity of this 
wine habitually consumed without prejudice by its admirers is 
very remarkable. Four years ago there was living, and per- 
haps still lives, at Menidi near Athens, a priest ninety years of 
age, who from early manhood had drunk a dozen bottles of 
wine per diem, partly at meals and partly at odd times. The 
American consul ascribes this venerable toper's toughness to 
the quality of his liquor.* 

It is a great convenience to be able to eat olive oil, which 
is much wholesomer than doubtful butter in warm climates ; 
and those who care for the future comfort of their sons and 
daughters will accustom them to the taste in youth. Re- 
pugnance to the flavour of goat's milk ought also to be got 
over by those who ever intend to frequent lands where the 
pasture will not support cows. A preference too for boiled 

* I understand that the flavour of Vino Vermuth is partly given by 
wormwood ; and if so, the acknowledged wholesomeness of the wine would 
seem an answer to M. Magnan and others who have been trying to fix upon 
the innocent herb the blame of what they call * Absinthisme,' and which is 
stated to contribute so largely to the degeneracy of the French nation. — See 
Les diverses formes du dUire alcoolique par le Dr. Magnan, Paris, 1874. 

' Second Report of State Board of Healthy Massachmetta, p. 258. 

2 



196 DIET IN HEALTH. 

milk, or milk that has been boiled, is a safe fancy to indulge. 
Irish peasants scarcely ever drink it raw, for fear of fever. 

On the Continent the household bread is usually unwhole- 
some and nasty, and captain's biscuits are never to be obtained. 
It is prudent to carry a store of them to use when the staff of 
life is found especially abominable. This does not apply to 
Spain, where delicious white, firm, fine-grained bread can be 
procured in places where it is the only thing eatable by a 
dainty person. 

A small tin of the usual tea employed at home is well 
worth the space it occupies. 

* Liebig ' is procurable in almost every civilised town, and 
a small store may be laid in when rough cookery is expected. 

A knowledge of simple methods of preparing food is often 
a great comfort to a traveller. A friend of mine was once 
considerably nonplussed in Norway, after he had bargained 
for some lamb, by having the animal handed over to him 
bleating, with a request that he would return the skin in the 
evening. The task was accomplished under difficulties, but 
the details are unpleasant. This is an extreme contingency, 
which need not be provided against by all vacation barristers 
acquiring the art of butchering ; but still it is worth while to 
learn in your own kitchen how to prepare an omelet, fry fish,, 
eggs, and ham, cut and grill a steak off a joint, boil and fry 
potatoes, scrabble eggs, mull wine, boil coffee, make * Liebig ' 
into good soup, &c. These accomplishments may be brought 
into play without wandering very far from home ; and it is 
astonishing how popular they render those sometimes trouble- 
some fellow-travellers, the ladies of the party. 

Travellers, -otherwise strong, are apt to get diarrhoea 
occasionally, partly from the unaccustomed diet, partly from 
the water, but very frequently also from the pestiferous state 
of the provisions for daily retirement in Continental inns. It 
is worth knowing that in many places, especially in France, 
the landlady has a small private establishment of her own, 
quite unobjectionable, of which she will lend the key to 



HINTS FOR TRAVEIi. 197 

favoured guests, especially Britons. In country places gentle- 
men will do well to worship Cloacina sub Jove. For other- 
wise diarrhoea will keep recurring again and again, easier 
induced by having occurred before ; and not unfreqnently it 
will leave traces of impei-fect digestion in the bowels for weeks 
after returning home. 

As a safeguard against accidental diarrhoea it is wise to be 
prepared with some chalk and opium powders {Pulvis GretoB 
aromaticics cum Ojpio, Pharm. Brit,) made up in 20-grain 
packets, in thin gutta-percha or oil silk, to keep them dry. 
In northerly latitudes half a packet, namely, ^ gr. of opium, 
can be taken after each relaxation. But in warm countries a. 
more efficient, at least a more permanently efficient remedy is 
to be found in lemon-juice. The patient should lie down flat, 
and keep sipping a mixture of half and half lemon juice and 
water, or simply sucking lemons, till the symptoms have 
ceased. The nausea and narcotism induced by opium are thus 
avoided, and there is no danger in taking an excess of the 
fruit. It is a good thing to get accustomed to the acidity of 
the flavour, for there is nothing so wholesome and convenient 
as a drink. 

Travellers in countries where the atmosphere is very dry, 
as in the vicinity of the Mediterranean, sometimes lose their 
appetite for breakfast from want of sleep. This inconvenience 
may be overcome by soaking a sheet or some towels in water 
and spreading them out on the floor of the bedroom, so as to 
difiuse moisture through the air breathed during sleep. 

I/6ng day's rides, especially in the heat, are liable to bring 
on an inert or semi-paralysed condition of the stomach, so that 
if a full meal be taken immediately it remains undigested, 
and is frequently thrown up again. This may be prevented 
by a rest and a hot bath between leaving the saddle and 
sitting down to table. If these cannot be had, it will be best 
to eat something very light, such as soup, eggs, bread, and in 
small quantities, and to make up the deficiency next day at 



198 DIET IN HEALTH. 

breakfast, which shonld be always the solidest meal in jonnieyd 
of this sort. 

Boils are sometimes very troublesome to equestrians. A 
small piece of nitrate of silver ought to be carried in the 
baggage, and on the first tenderness, redness, and hardness 
the part shonld be damped and the canstic lightly crossed 
twice over it. The object is not to make the cuticle rise in a 
blister, but to contract and render insensitive the cutis. Tho 
pressure of the tightened skin causes the boil to die away. 

Pedestrians will do well to make a good breakfast before 
starting, however early the hour may be. If tea or coffee are 
not relished on account of the time being unusual, beef tea or 
soup will be found an excellent substitute. If prepared over 
night they are easily warmed up in the morning. 

Advantage should be seized of every day of rest to feed 
weH, and fieitten up as much as possible. This does not put 
the body out of training, but in ^eict keeps it in a condition fit 
for continuous exertion. 

Beer, wine, and spirits should be avoided altogether during^ 
the day's work, but water, cold tea, or lemonade may be 
drunk according to thirst. An occasional pipe of tobacco 
seems to palliate better than anything else that dryness of 
mouth which constitutes false thirst. This false thirst natu- 
rally arises during exercise in a rarefied air, but in mountainous 
places it is often aggravated very much by eating snow or ice. 
Spring water, though scarcely over the freezing point, does 
not seem to have the same unpleasant effect. 

The sensation of cold is diminished by ardent spirits, but 
80 also unhappily is the power of resisting its deleterious influ- 
ence, and the temperature of the body is lowered by even 
moderate doses.* Instinct or experience has taught this to 
men whom we are pleased to call barbarians. The Indian 
porters in South America (it is stated by Mr. Salvin, the 
ornithologist), when they prepare for a stiff journey under one 

' See references in chapter on Alcohol. 



.HINTS FOR TRAVEL. 199 

of their Heavy loads throngh cold monntamons regions, care- 
fully eschew all strong drinks, and swallow large quantities of 
water as hot as the stomach will bear. 

Sea-voyages have a powerfol curative effect on some 
invalids, but they do not generally bring healthy persons into 
very good condition. If it is calm, landsmen over-eat them- 
selves, take too little exercise, sleep badly, and get their bowels 
constipated. If it is rough, they suffer from sea-sickness and 
the badness of ventilation below. 

The sea-sickness of short voyages may be considerably 
palliated by rational preparation, and pending the growth and 
schooling of that promising twin, the *Castalia,' it is well 
worth while to try and palliate it. In the first place care 
should be taken to finish all preliminary arrangements as long 
before starting as you can, so that a day or two may be given 
to rest and a temperance somewhat more than usual. In case 
the eyes or skin are dingy and yellow, take a purge of aloes 
or taraxacum. Go on board in good time, so as to secure a 
comfortable post. During a short voyage if it is evidently 
going to be rough, go below and lie down immediately if 
possible. While you remain on deck, be very warmly clothed, 
and especially let no chill affect the abdomen or back. For a 
short time, drawing in a full breath and fixing the diaphragm 
during the sinking vertical motion of the ship, will keep off 
nausea, especially in the standing posture ; the practice also 
assists you in getting your sea-legs ; but it cannot be depended 
on for long. Should the stomach feel empty, and still more if 
any dry retching occurs, take bottled porter and biscuit spread 
with a little butter and cayenne pepper — which last article, 
by the way, amply repays the space it will occupy in a traveller's 
pocket throughout a journey, so useful is it on all occasions. 
Nutritious food should be taken when practicable, but loading 
the stomach with trash brings on sickness; though, truly 
enough, it facilitates the process of vomiting, and prevents the 
regurgitation of bile, which is always peculiarly painful after 
dry retching. 



200 DIET IN HEALTH. 

If the voyage be by night, and sufficiently long to make a 
night's rest of say seven or eight hours at least, it is worth 
while to swallow a Ml dose of chloral on embarking, and to 
sleep through one's trouble. But when you have to wake up in 
two or three hours to disembark, you feel ill all the next day, 
and perhaps longer. 

Ice-bags, and all other specific * charms ' for sea-sickness, 
have turned out mere trade puffs ; and rational treatment, as 
above advised, remains the only hope for the landsman. 



201 



CHAPTER Vin. 

EFFECTS OF CLIMATE. 

The race of man exhibits great powers of resistance to exter- 
nal influences, and is able to occupy a length and breadth of 
the earth's surface such as is attained by no other animal or 
even plant. This arises not from any innate bodily strength, 
but from his being able to accommodate himself by the aid 
of reason to circumstances. Thus experience has led to the 
adoption of very different dietaries in different regions. An 
Esquimaux would find much difficulty in growing rice near 
his home, so he wisely dines on such meat as he can get or on 
whale-blubber. A Bengalee could not obtain a supply of flesh 
food without immense labour, and finds rice grown easily, so 
he lives almost entirely on the latter. The curiosities of food 
afford examples of the boldness of mankind in not being 
deterred by their repulsiveness to his senses from converting 
assimilable substances to his use, enough to make the simple 
reader shudder; but I do not know that the philosopher 
gains much knowledge from such recitals. Man learns to 
swallow, hon gre, mat gre, whatever contains aliment, and the 
art of living lies in the learning so to eat it as that it shall 
serve his turn. Climate influences diet mainly by the supply 
it affords. 

In most warm countries there is an abundance of starchy 
and sugary food, and but little animal. How shall this 
existent provision be made most available for the prolongation 
of life ? Let us refer back to the principle on which was 



202 DIET IN HEALTH. 

reckoned, in the first part of this volume, the requirements of 
the body for its daily work (p. 8), and draw the obvious in- 
ferences therefrom. The diet is in hot countries perforce 
one that entails the loading the digestive organs with a great 
excess of carbon, in order that enough nitrogen may be 
obtained. In the first place, therefore, the carbon should not 
be in too rapidly digestible a form. Starch and vegetable 
fibre, as supplied by grain and green food, are better than 
oleaginous matter in warm climates; for while the former 
only overloads the intestinal canal, the latter overloads the 
blood and tissues with useless and deleterious products. 
Then, it is essential that no frequent calls should be made for 
unusual exertion : the muscles and nerves must not be worn 
out, for the materials of their repair are few. Moreover, the 
supply of food must be continuously copious and accessible ; 
for starvation is badly borne by him who is hanging on to life 
* by the skin of his teeth.' No sudden changes must be made 
in the dietary, even in the form of the vegetable food ; for a 
new article is with difficulty digested by an unhabituated 
stomach, though it shoxdd be perhaps more ordinarily diges- 
tible than the usual nutriment. This is not the case with 
meat-eaters, who can bear change much easier from one kind 
of flesh-food to another. 

The English reader's interest in his fellow-subjects will 
naturally suggest to him the important bearing which these 
considerations have on the duties of both Government and 
individuals towards the inhabitants of our Indian possessions. 
Our first business is to keep them alive, at whatever cost to 
ourselves ; and the next to render them as little dependent as 
possible on the accidents of drought, flood, and other un- 
favourable contingencies of season, partly by storing grain, 
and (what is infinitely more important) by storing water, the 
means of producing grain, from one season to another. 
Tanks, artificial lakes, irrigation works, and roads, stamped 
with the latest improvements of modem science, will preserve 
the memory of our rule when the bronze statues of our leaders 



CLIMATE. 203i 

are as unintelligible as the Memnon. Wlio cares for, or knows 
of the martial exploits of the Pharaohs ? Yet their successful 
efforts for regulating the food supply of Egypt preserve fresh 
for ever our grateful remembrance of them. The heaven oF 
nations is in the hearts of men. 

Again, we must not expect to get woA out of vegetable- 
feeders in return for our bounty. If required to exert them- 
selves in any unusual way, when food is deficient, they simply 
die. The reason is evident : they have been living on their- 
own tissues, and the small quantity of albuminous matter in 
grain is a long time in buUding them up again; so that 
for weeks, or even months, their muscles are in a state of 
atrophy. A broken watch must be repaired before you call 
upon it to go. 

Also any variations made in the nature of their food must, 
be very gradual and well considered. 

Still, there is no impossibility in the gradual introduction 
of changes, at least in the preparation of food. Some method 
might be popularised of augmenting the proportion of nitro- 
genous matter in the dietary by mechanically reducing the- 
carbon, such as produces in Italy the highly nutritious- 
macaroni. Starch is readily washed out of the grain, and i» 
itself a valuable article of commerce for industrial purposes, 
as well as being capable of conversion into more digestible 
substances for use as food. Also the separation of starch and 
the storing it in a form less liable to decomposition and th& 
ravages of insects than ordinary grain, would be a great sourqe 
of safety to a graminivorous people. 

I had a striking illustration of the different values of 
vegetable and animal food a few years ago in the case of a 
robust Hindoo gentleman, who habitually lived on rice and 
vetches, which he imported himself from Bombay, and had 
cooked by a servant of the same faith as himself, so that hi» 
meal should not be defiled by the touch, or even the look of a 
Christian. The said servant went holiday-making to Green- 
wich, got drunk and into the lock-up, so that his master had 



204 DIET IN HEALTH. 

an involuntary fast of nearly two days ; and then he was so 
weakened that the labour of opening his letters brought on 
hiccup, vomiting, and extreme depression, so that he could 
not take food when at last he obtained it. The mention of 
beef-tea was an abomination to him ;* he said his ancestors 
had not put in their mouths animal food for 6,000 years, and 
he was not going to begin. But when the abominable sub- 
stance was craftily introduced to the other extremity of the 
digestive canal, it seemed to flow directly into his veins, 
which filled with blood, and he was well. The absorbents 
liad clearly not lost their natural habits by disuse for so many 
generations. 

Where the circumstances of a country are such that 
plants suitable for food cannot be grown, while there is a suf- 
ficient supply of animals to nourish the population, the inhabi- 
tants are taught by their hunting habits to endure extreme 
■cold and heat, and to be capable of violent physical exertion. 
But steady daily labour wears them out, and is abhorrent to 
their feelings. We may instance, as under several varieties 
of temperature, the Esquimaux, the Indians and half-breds of 
the Pampas, the Tartar hordes, and the Arabs of the Nubian 
Desert. These nations of meat-eating hunters and herdsmen 
are mightily strong and prolific, and have fulfilled to them the 
promise made to the sons of the wild Sheik Jonadab, of never 
lacking * a man to stand before the Lord for ever.' But that 
is only so long as they follow their ancestral traditions, and 
retain habits suited to none but sparsely inhabited lands. 
When the inevitable tide of civilisation overtakes them, and 
they become cxdtivators and craftsmen, they fall under the 
iiatural laws of population, and take their chances with the 
rest of malikind. Often the day goes against them in the fight 
of innovation, especially if it has been sudden; they fade 
away childless under our very eyes, like that vast American 
tribe, of which, it is said, the only extant remnants are a chief, 
a tomahawk, and six gallons of whisky. The only possible 



CLIMATE, 205 

remedy for this terrible state of things is beef. Our progress 
is progressively poisoning off our weaker brethren ; we are no 
more to blame for it than we are for crushing the beetles and 
daisies that lie in our path. Still, we are bound in mercy to 
tide them over the struggle, to let them assimilate gradually 
with the more civilised world. Hunters shoxdd have facilities 
afforded them of becoming herdsmen, and, in course of gene- 
rations, from herdsmen farmers and gardeners ; for the imme« 
diate transition from a purely animal to a principally vegetable 
diet, though borne by the individual, is fe.tal to the continuance 
of the tribe. 

The action of climate on diet seems to be effected by the 
food produce which it enables the soil to bring forth. The 
fixed inhabitants grow accustomed to it, and, according to the 
law of the survival of the fittest for the peculiar circumstances, 
are prosperous and prolific as a race, and healthy as indi. 
viduals, while following their ancient habits. But that historic 
fact does not at all show either that the diet is the best 
abstractedly, still less that it is the best suited to the climate. 
It seems absurd to argue that the inhabitant of the Polar 
Circle lives on animal food because the air is so cold, and at 
the same time that the burning plains of. the Pampas are a 
reason for the native^ thriving on flesh, or that the climatic 
circumstances of Northern Norway and Southern Spain are the 
cause of the peasantry living almost entirely on bread. The 
best diet in the abstract is a mixed diet, and mixed in the pro- 
portions selected by the experience of the most civilised nations ; 
and it is also the best for the individual who is accustomed to 
it to adhere to, under whatever sky he may be wandering. 
The higher the health he gains the better is he able to resist 
the adverse circumstances he may be subjected to. Experience 
does not justify an agreement with dieticians who desire us to 
alter our commissariat in accordance with the example of those 
among whom we dwell for a season, or in obedience to the 
thermometer, and M. Cyrisindubitably wrong when he blames 



1:06 LIET IN HEALTH. 

Britons for 'retaining their cnstoniary substantial regimen 
nnder other skies and in hot conntries.'^ 

In India and in Africa our soldiers suffer from fevers, agae, 
•dysentery, and are liable to contract cholera and other epi- 
demics ; bat the camps of onr foes are osnally still more severely 
ravaged at the same time, and it is observed that those gnflfer 
least who retain the habits of sensible men at home. Inflam- 
mations and degenerations of the liver also afflict onr conntiy- 
men in the East, and a certain proportion of this evil is due to 
intemperance, as it is in England ; but the great majority of 
the cases are traceable to the consequences of malarious fever. 
It does not appear that those who make a rational use of 
alcohol, as they would have done at home, suffer more than 
the abstinent. The principal thing to be remembered is that 
as the outgoings of water by skin and lungs are very great, 
the ingoings must be great also, and therefore that the fer- 
mented drinks must be taken in a dilute form, otherwise thirst 
will cause an excess of stimulant to be consumed. This 
applies equally to the warm summers in dry temperate climates, 
like Italy, as well as to tropical regions. 

The object of attention to diet in unaccustomed climates 
-should be to accommodate to the demands of the system the 
food which can be obtained, and to which we are obliged by 
necessity to restrict ourselves. If starchy food is to be got, 
«olely or mainly, a great deal of it must be eaten, and the 
digestion of this unusual mass is ^tcilitated by being taken 
alone and not mixed with meat ; and the meat, when it comes 
to hand, should form a separate meal. Thus the full force of 
flalivary digestion is brought into play. Involuntary vege- 
tarians are apt to starve themselves from want of inclination 
towards the flavourless viands. They should be warned of 
the danger of this, and directed to acquire a taste for vegetable 
relishes, onions, garlic, peppers and spices. If nothing but 
-animal food is within reach, again, still more is it imperative 
"to eat largely, if the body is to be preserved in its integrity, 

> TYaiii de V AliTneniation^ p. 221. 



CLIMATE. 207 

as has been argued in a previous chapter (p. 9). Sir John 
Ross found the Esquimaux devouring about twenty pounds a 
day of meat and blubber ; and his experience among his own 
men leads him to urge the desirability of acquiring, previously 
to a contemplated winter residence in Polar regions, a love for 
Greenland food, the large consumption of it being the true 
secret of life in these frozen countries. * The quantity of food,' 
he says, ' should be increased, be that as inconvenient as it 
may.' ^ Again, Sir Francis Head, in his famous journey across 
the burning plains of the Pampas, where beef and water were 
the only victuals to be had, got himself into magnificent condi- 
tion, not by dint of the limited slices of civilised society, but 
by eating flesh, morning, noon, and night, liberally.* Under 
both circumstances the addition of a small quantity of vege- 
table food would have rendered needless the excess of nitro- 
genous aliment. 

When the Engh'shman is in foreign countries it is more 
necessary than at home to pay that attention to diet which 
will ensure the highest condition, for to his constitution 
every place is less healthy than England. Plagues of all sorts, 
terrestrial and celestial, beset his path, and he must walk 
warily if he would return sound. At home he may have 
lived carelessly, and been lucky enough not to suffer, but he 
cannot hope for the same good fortune under less favourable 
auspices. This caution is not required by the sensible readers 
of these pages, but it may be useful in its application to their 
less wise dependents and clients, who, in countries where you 
are always thirsty and there is lots to drink, are as apt to 
yield to temptation as in England. The punishment of 
stupidity is surer and heavier than they are led to anticipate 
by former experience acquired in their own country. 

Exercise and clothing should be accommodated to the food. 
We should not in these particulars copy the manner of natives 

* Ross, Second Voyage for the Discovery of the North-West Passage, 
p. 413. 

* Head's Journey Across the Pampas (1828). 



208 DIET IN HEALTH. 

any more than we do their dietary. Active nmscularity 
renders the body less likely to suffer from the solar and 
malarious influences to which out-of-door occupations expose 
those who pursue them ; and the simple precautions of keeping 
the skin dry and warm after exertion, and of taking small pre- 
ventive doses of quinine, will make field-sports nearly as safe 
in the Tropics as in Europe, times and places of extraordinary 
risk being avoided. 

In the selection of fit persons to undergo with safety to 
themselves and others exposure to extremes of either cold or 
heat, the surest guide is their power of gaining weight and 
condition under a course of training. These are not always 
persons of the biggest muscles and bones ; indeed a moderately- 
sized frame is the toughest as a rule. Sheer pluck will some- 
times enable a most unfit subject to pass undetected through 
tests of endurance, and doubtless such a temper is valuable 
in a colleague ; but it will not supply the place of hardihood. 
The surest proof of hardihood is improvement under training. 

As the women desiring to undergo bodily hardship are 
more exceptional than men, so is it all the more necessary to 
test them thoroughly. The world has less claim on their 
assistance, and therefore they should not offer it without being 
sure that it is really worth having. Self-sacrifice is magni- 
ficent ; but it injures the object it professes to serve if it breaks. 
down. The wives of missionaries, travellers, emissaries to bar- 
barous nations, and the like, are of incalculable service while 
sound, but a serious impediment when sick. Their enduring 
courage may be taken for granted, as it is proved by their 
volunteeidng ; but unless they grow in strength and weight, 
or at least preserve their weight under a course of training, their 
place is home. 

The standard chapter in dietetic treatises on the due influ- 
ence of the seasons on the selection of food in temperate 
climates does not exhibit any practical contributions of science. 
We hardly require to be told to indulge more in weak pota- 
tions in July than in December, or to eat a better dinner when 



CLIM.VTE. 209 

our appetite is braced up hj a frost. Some of their refinements 
remind one of the dandies in Imperial Rome who. wore heavy 
finger-rings in winter and light in summer, and are beneath 
the notice of a healthy man. Some are positively repugnant to 
experience, as, for example, the I'ecommendation to keep out 
the cold by eating sugary and starchy dishes, on the ground 
that they are producers of heat by combustion. The loss of 
heat by evaporation makes it quite as necessary to sustain thb 
temperature of the body in summer as in winter, and the 
same amount of force has to be elicited ; so that, as a matter 
of fact, meals of bread and pastry and sweet fruits are more 
seasonable in warm weather than in cold, for they cause less 
feverishness and excitement than meat does. The succession 
in their due season of marketable articles affords a sufficient 
guide to their selection. As an almost universal rule, they are 
wholesomest when cheapest, if the simple directions given 
always for securing their soundness and freedom from adultera- 
tion be adhered to. 

Sir James Clark ^ remarks that * Change of air is not 
more valuable as a remedy in the cure of disease and its 
consequences, than as a preventive of disease, more especially 
in childhood and youth.' It is upon the appetite that its 
effect is first marked, and no doubt this is most prominent 
when the change is from an impure to a purer air. Yet I 
have knovni the mere change alone to have a beneficial influ- 
ence, as, for instance, a removal for a time from the sea-side 
or the fresh breezes of the Worcestershire hills to London. 
Observation does not incline me to have faith in the doctrine 
of acclimatisation. It seems to me that a long residence in a 
climate, instead of rendering it more salubrious to the resider, 
makes it less suitable in close proportion to its length. I 
cannot at all join Claud ian in his praise of the old man of 
Yerona, who attained the age of ninety without ever going out 
of the suburbs or into the city.^ He used his natural tough - 

* Cyclopedia of Practical MeSicinCt i. 49. 

• De Sene Veronensi Epigrammam 

P 



210 DIET IN HEALTH. 

ness to set a very bad example to his neighbours ; and if many 
followed it I am sure some must have suffered in mind and 
body. 

In choosing a place of education of children, it is desirable 
that the climate should be decidedly different from that en- 
joyed at home during the holidays. Denizens of the stagnating, 
oft-breathed atmosphere of a metropolis will do well to select 
a country school; dwellers on the high ground of central 
England will find what suits them best on the coast ; while 
both the sea-siders and country folks may venture, without 
risk of deterioration, to secure for their growing families the 
many advantages of instruction in a town. 

Clergymen whose health is below par, and even verging on 
disease, will often gain wonderfully by a mutual exchange of 
duty, provided tlie clvmates of their several spheres are different. 
Satirists say that parsons' livings always disagree with them ; 
and there is a strong spice of fact in the statement ; it is not 
fancy, but a real stagnation from monotony in their aerial 
and other surroundings. The remedy is easy and cheap, but 
the physiological conditions of it should be clearly understood. 
It would be a profitable subject for bishops and archdeacons 
to dilate upon in their charges, as it is quite as important to 
the public that clergymen should be kept in repair as that 
churches should be so attended to. 



211 



CHAPTER IX. 

STARVATION, POVERTY, AND FASTING. 

Starvation. 

There has always been a certain amonnt of importance 
attached to the diet and regimen of the sick, but not till the 
present generation do we find any notice taken by men of" 
science of the conseqnences to the healthy of its insufficiency. 
The remarkable researches of Chossat on Inanition * form the 
first important work published on this point. The results 
deduced by this physiologist from his experiments have been 
confirmed and expanded by later observers. 

The first and most important principle establishei by 
Chossat is that absolute deprivation of food and deficiency of 
food are physiologically identical in their action on the 
animal life. One acts quicker than the other, but the differ- 
ence is merely one of duration and degree. Both are equally 
fatal in the end, if not interfered with ; and the end in both is 
regulated by the same law. Death arrives when the body 
has lost ^ of its weight, whether that happens after days, or 
months, or years. 

The loss of temperature is a feature common to and 
identical in both. Starvation or abstinence proved almost 
«,lways fatal, in Chossat's observations, whenever the animal 
warmth fell to about 76° (Fahr.) in a red-blooded creature. The 
importance of the loss of temperature was shown by the fact 
ithat a renewal of consciousness and nerve-power could be 

1 Chossat sur VInanitiont Paris, 1843. 

p 2 



212 DIET IN HEALTH. 

effected, even from the torpor preceding death, hy the appH- 
cation of external warmth. This fact affords a most valuable 
hint for the management not only of absolutely starved, bnt of 
poorly fed individuals. 

The sensations of hunger need not be described. After a 
time these are appeased, and are succeeded by a grumbling 
and a dull aching in the small intestine. Then the secretions- 
of the abdominal canal diminish, and finally cease. Digestion 
becomes more and more difficult, the longer the abstinence^ 
In fact, an insufficient diet is not only hurtful immediately, 
but it brings on an additional danger, which acts in the same* 
direction, namely, an impediment to absorption. The appetite 
falls off, and it is only from habit that the sufferer is induced, 
to seek the food for want of which he is perishing. 

There is absolute constipation, as may bo daily noticed in 
hysterical subjects and others who do not take nutriment ;: 
and the forcible relief of this constipation by drugs makea 
matters worse, as we may also observe in the same hysterical 
subjects under foolish maternal discipline. 

The breathing goes on gradually getting slower and less 
deep. In a case of starvation for twenty-four hours. Dr. 
Smith found the exhalation of carbonic acid fall from 34 
ounces per diem to 22 ('Philos. Trans. 1859'). Fasting 
ecstatics hardly seem to breathe at all ; and if you watch at 
rest a London needlewoman, or pauper before she goes inta 
the house, the motion of the ribs cannot be seen, so little air 
does she draw in. Contrasted with this is the gasping^ 
rapidity with which the respiratory muscles act when forced, 
exertion sets them in motion. 

The alterations in the blood consequent on insufficient 
food depend on whether there has been a deprivation of water 
or not at the same time with solids. If there has, strange to 
say, the proportions of the ingredients of the circulating fluid 
are not affected, but the whole quantity is diminished. In 
animals starved to death, three-quarters of the blood was gone. 
But where water is abundant, and the starvation gradual and 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 215 

Biot immediately fatal, it is easy to see by the colouring of the 
lips that the change consists in the dilution of the nutriant 
stream with aqueous fluid. In a ghastly picture exhibited 
at the last season of the Royal Academy (1874), * The Door of 
a Casual Ward,' it was singular to notice how the secret of the 
weird and true effect of colour lay in the omission of vermilion 
from the flesh tints. This abstraction was natural, for the 
reason that it was an imitation of the inner work of nature, 
not of the mere outside. 

The nervous system shows how it sufiers from inanition 
by giddiness, fainting, hallucination, and delirium. During 
sleep the dreams are most characteristic, presenting wondrous 
scenes of festivity and sensual enjoyment. Lately, M., Parrot * 
has believed he has traced to inanition certain tissue changes 
in the nervous system, as well as in the other viscera, which 
would appear to be the material expression of the functional 
derangements first named. 

In an account by "Mr. Brett in the * Medico-Chirurgical 
Heview' (1841) of the denizens of the Indian prisons at 
Moorshedabad, Cawnpore, and Shahjehanpore, one of the 
most notable results of insufficient food was a peculiar glassy 
appearance in the eye, followed by inflammation and ulcer of 
the cornea, a copious secretion of tears and of the Meibomian 
glands, and finally blindness from destruction of the eyeballs, 
and death by emaciation. Strange to say, these dreadful 
symptoms in such a sensitive part were accompanied by no 
pain. These same phenomena were observed long ago by 
Magendie in dogs starved to death by deprivation of all nutri- 
ment, and they occur also when gelatine only is supplied. 

Among the poor, especially among children badly fed, very 
similar afiections of the eyes are frequent. They rarely, 
however, go on to the lengths mentioned above, for the 

* CompL rend.f Acad, des Sciences^ 1868, T. ii. p. 412. Dr. Brown- 
iSeqiiard calls this; Steatose interstitielle diffuse de Vencephale. By long- 
lasting insufficiency of food the brain is more or less converted into a suety 
4sub8tance. 



214 DIET IN HEALTH. 

sufferers come under medical care, are sent into hospitals or 
parish infirmaries, and are reinstated with nourishing diet. A 
recognition of the true origin of many ophthalmic epidemics 
in reformatories, pauper nurseries, and such like collections of 
infantile weakness, is very necessary to be impressed upon the 
managers of those institutions. Not being medical men, they 
are prone to apply, universally, principles of regimen suited 
only to their own over-fed; nurseries, and to cure all inflam- 
mations by restriction, till they discover their mistake by sad 
experience. 

If the lack of nitrogenous food is too prolonged, since it is 
the blood which is subjected to the greatest drain, and since 
in fat persons the blood errs by defect rather than by excess, 
inanition can exist while the body still retains its fat. In the 
case of the Welsh fasting- girl ^ the body was found after death 
plump, and with a considerable quantity of adipose tissue upon 
it, though the jury was quite right in finding that she was- 
indubitably starved to death. This is a fact of great import- 
ance in practice : one must be very circumspect in starving or 
bleeding a stout patient ; doubtless the store of adipose tissue 
may serve partly to nourish him, but it will not keep him 
alive. In our treatment of the poor we must apply the same 
reasoning, and not suppose that because a client, especially in 
old age, is fat, that he is therefore in good case, and capable of 
bearing restricted diet. Jailers have sometimes attempted,. 

.' This was a case of notorious imposition "which the daily papers in 1869 
detailed very fully. The parents made a show of her, decking her out like 
a bride on a bed, and asserting that she had eaten no food for two years- 
Some reckless enthusiasts for strict truth set four trustworthy nurses to 
watch her ; the Celtic obstinacy of the parents was roused, and in defence 
of their imposture they allowed death to take place in the usual time which 
it does after total deprivation of food. They were found guilty of man- 
slaughter with perfect justice, for the law rightly supposes everybody to 
know that a human. being without food must necessarily die. There was no 
need to prove the fact by a cruel experiment, and to visit a poor crazy 
swindler with the punishment of death. Thus to take the moral govern- 
ment of the universe into private hands is quite unjustifiable. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 215 

really more from mistaken kindness than Larsliness, to * tone 
down ' an obese prisoner with hard fare ; and the consequence 
usually is that the country is put to the expense of sending 
him to the infirmary. 

When entirely deprived of nutriment we are capable of 
supporting life for little more than a week. The Welsh fast- 
ing girl lived for eight days from the commencement of the 
time she was carefully watched. But so many circumstances 
influence the amount of resistance which the body can exhibit, 
and make it vary so much, that no practical importance 
attaches to the theoretical limit of possible existence. 

One thing which remarkably prolongs the duration of life 
is a supply of water. Dogs furnished with as much as they 
wanted to drink were found by M. Chossat to live three times 
as long as those who were deprived of liquids and solids at the 
same time. Miners who have got shut up in damp headings 
have experienced much relief by getting moisture from the 
walls of their prison. Even wetting the skin with sea- water 
has been found useful by shipwrecked sailors. The fact is 
water is a food necessary to the building up of the body, and 
I think a great mistake is made when we caution the underfed 
against a free use of it. And, moreover, water prevents that 
concentration of the circulating fluid which impedes absorp- 
tion, and which is a serious hastener of fatal results in those 
who have not enough to eat. 

Though, as was before noticed, a certain amount of fat on 
the body does not prevent the blood from being impoverished, 
and by its impoverishment leading to injurious results, yet fat 
is a considerable protection against starvation. The old tale 
of the pig which was buried by the fall of a clifi' at Dover, and 
was dug out alive after 160 days, as recorded by Mr. Mantell, 
the naturalist, sixty years since in the * Transactions of the 
LinnsBan Society ' (vol. xi.), is a standing case to cite. The 
loss of substance, amounting to three-quarters of the entire 
animal, is probably an exaggeration, as the weight previous to 
the imprisonment is estimated by guess ; but still the duration 



I 



216 DIET IN HEALTH. 

of the starvation, palliated only by the moisture "which oozed 
through the sides of the sty, is very remarkable, and may 
certainly be taken as evidence of the protection afforded by 
the adipose tissue. 

Life can be supported by a veiy minute quantity of food 
as long as complete inactivity of body is maintained. But 
under such circumstances the slightest exertion will bring on 
a fatal result. I attended for a long time a surgeon whose 
power of swallowing was completely lost by cancer of the 
CBSophagus. He was cheerful and happy as long as he lay in 
bed, but at last, during my absence from London, he thought 
a trip to Greenwich in a steamer would be an agreeable 
change, and died immediately after the exertion. 

An even, elevated temperature and the exclusion of the 
sun's rays, as in the * dim religious light ' of a closed bedroom, 
will enable life to go on slowly for a marvellous psriod ; as in 
the case of ecstatics, fasters, hysterical and insane persons. 
But if these are suddenly routed out, mentally excited, and 
forced to live like other people without due preparation, they 
die in spite of the soundness of all their organs. It is the 
same with convalescents from acute fevers, if they are inju- 
diciously roused to mental or bodily activity. 

Sex seems to have no appreciable influence on resistance 
to deficient diet ; but it is not so with age. It is an observa- 
tion of the rough old times when famine was oftener seen (and 
therefore we may trust Hippocrates^) that the younger a 
human being is, the easier is it starved, till we come to 
extreme old age, when the powers of life are considered by 
some physiologists, Celsus among the number, to give way 
quicker under famine than those of middle-aged men. How- 
ever, there is no difference of opinion as to its effect upon 
children. Yery large is the number of victims to this law of 
nature, and Malthusian optimists may admire its equity in 

> Aphorism xiii. Hippocrates does not define who are the yipotms who 
ho says bear starvation best ; but as an Ionian he would probably include 
all over 45. 



ST AKVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 217 

balancing population and food. Nevertheless, so long as wide 
tracts of the earth lie uncultivated, we may not imprudently 
suspend its operation as much as we can. Dispensary and 
parochial practitioners are sadly famihar with a mass of 
infantile sickness and death, which they classify on paper, to a 
certain extent, under heads prescribed by the Nomenclature of 
Disease, but which appeals to their hearts by its real terrible 
name, Starvation. Europe is deeply indebted to M. Parrot for 
the bold outlines with which (in the * Archives de physiologic ' 
for 1868) he sketches the condition in which an innumerable 
army of speechless martyrs are found in the great centres of 
civilisation. 

' In these little creatures,' he says, * we see the functions 
growing weaker and weaker with extreme rapidity, though in 
a gradual manner. The temperature, often lower in the 
interior of the body than in the axillsB, falls below 92° 
(Fahr.), and is never above 95°. (We all know what " blood- 
heat " is.) Usually not more than 90 beats in a minute can 
be counted in the pulse ; once the number was over 100, in 
another case it was below 64. The respiratory movements 
were less frequent than in the normal state, and often very 
weak. The cries, which in some were at first intense and 
prolonged, ceased little by little. The secretions, always 
scanty, ended by disappearing ; more than once the napkins 
put on in the morning were taken ofi" in the evening unsoiled 
and dry. The skin, rigid, dry, and cold, often oozed out a 
serous fluid, especially in the dependent parts of the body. 
Motionless in their cradles, icy cold, with the face livid and 
drawn, as if they were mummied, these still living babies 
looked like corpses. The beating of the heart could not be 
heard, and were it not for an occasional movement of the 
breath at long intervals, it would have been thought that a 
body some time dead lay under the eyes. In very truth death 
had already taken possession, slowly indeed, and as it were 
molecule by molecule, but with a sure and fatal grasp. . . 
The death of these children is due to starvation; and the 



218 DIET IN HEALTH. 

diseased appearances revealed by a post mortem examination 
should be looked at not as the cause of the malady, but as its. 
inevitable consequences.' 

A common symptom, in children, of a diet deficient in 
nutriment is diarrhoea. It assumes, when severe, the dysen- 
teric type, streaks of blood appearing in the light green^ 
mucous evacuations; and so it gets entered in the register- 
as * dysentery/ or * inflammation of the bowels,' or * enteritis. '^ 
But it does not appear to be contagious or epidemic, like the 
dysentery of camps ; and, in hard times, may be observed 
confined to the children of a district, to the children in arms 
even, according to the mode in which the pressure of scarcity 
falls on the population. 

Yet the sufferers are probably not either deliberately, nor 
completely, perhaps not even knowingly deprived of nutri- 
ment — 

Evil is wrought 

By want of thought. 
As well as by want of heart. 

Ask what they are fed upon, and compare it with what 
rational experience prescribes, controlled by the universally 
spread teachings of physiology, and you will see immediately 
that the dietary errs in not containing the essentials of exist- 
ence. The food is not, strictly speaking, unwholesome, but it 
errs by defect. It is not food at all. Reference to Chapters 
I. and II. makes this clear. It is there pointed out what 
children should eat, and everything else is what they should 
not. 

Not only youth, but health and vigour render the body 
less tolerant of abstinence. Invalids bear it better than strong 
people, with a few special exceptions. Such of us as have 
passed middle life cannot but remember, during the old reign 
of depletion and restriction, when for fear of victualling the 
disease they famished the patient, instances of the extreme- 
toughness of the human race. Among the sick, not the sound,, 
these instances are recollected. It is an act of mercy, in sieges, 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 21^ 

in shipwrecks, and such-like disasters, when meat and drink 
are scarce, to supply those on the invalid list first and most 
l>ountifully, No doubt it is an act of mercy, and to the honour 
of mankind will probably always be done ; but the physio- 
logist must pronounce it highly imprudent, and fai* from beings 
conducive to final success ; for the vigorous and active, whose 
blood is circulated rapidly, and whose muscles are in constant 
movement, really suffbr most, not only in feeling, but in their 
future health and strength. 

In order to preserve life as long as possible where suflfi- 
cient food for subsistence cannot be obtained, our aims should 
be to secure water, warmth, and complete inaction of the 
muscles. The direst famine does not necessarily exclude theso 
preservatives, and in the more insidious scarcities, whose effects 
are noticed chiefly in children, we can very often readily get 
as much of them as we want. 

In the apportionment of a spare supply, the youngest 
should have the nearest approach to a full ration, the active- 
men and women the next, and the invalids and aged the 
scantiest allowance. So is distributive justice best satisfied. 

It is a strange thing, and one which at first sounds para^ 
doxical, that the supply of the stomach even from tho 
substance of the individual body itself, should tend to prolong 
life. A case of starvation for twenty-two days in an open 
boat was recorded in the periodical prints last spring (April 
30, and May 1, 1874), in which the poor victims fought in 
their delirium, and one was severely wounded.^ As the blood 
gushed out, he lapped it up ; and instead of suffering the fatal 
weakness which might have been expected from the haemor- 
rhage, he seems to have done well. I would not build much 
on the rough memories preserved during such awful suffer* 
ings, were it not for the support afforded by some experimenta 
by a French physiologist, M. Anselmier, to whom the idea 
occurred of trying to preserve the lives of some dogs by what 

* Three men and two boys were out for 32 days with only 10 days* pro- 
visions, exclusive of old boots and jelly-fish. 



220 DIET IN HEALTH. 

lie calls 'artificial autopbagy.' He fed them on tLe blood 
taken from tbeir own veins dailj, and lie found that the fatal 
cooling incident to starvation was thus postponed, and the 
existence consequently prolonged. Life lasted till the emacia- 
tion bad proceeded to i^^ of the weight, instead of ^^j as in 
Cbo8sat*s experiments, and was extended to the fourteenth 
instead of the tenth day, which was its limit in those dogs 
who were not bled.* 

It is not likely that anybody will feel himself called upon 
to repeat M. Anselmier's dreadful experiment, but no one of us 
who run to and fro in the earth is secure from the possibility 
of shipwreck, or being buried alive, say in a mine or railway 
cutting, and thus involuntarily contributing a self sacrifice to 
that knowledge which may save the lives of others. For one 
famished crew that is picked up there are found dozens of 
empty wrecks, of which it is never known how the once 
living freight fared ; and for each empty wreck there are 
dozens which have left no trace. The prolongation of life 
without provisions is by no means a mere speculative discus- 
sion. Were I in such a strait mj reason would counsel me, 
and I hope I should have the courage, to wound my veins and 
•suck the blood. 

After starvation, either complete or partial, a sudden 
return to full diet is not to be attempted. Small quantities at 
a time of the most digestible food must be given ; and the 
temperature should be artificially sustained till such time as 
the system is able to generate its own heat, especially in the 
interior of the body. Tablespoon fuls of hot beef tea and of 
milk, constantly administered (* tea-cup diet '), form the most 
•appropriate nutriment. And it will be much assisted by 
admixture with a small quantity of pepsine ; but not too much, 
or there is risk of diarrhoea. 

* Archives Gin. de MldecinCy 1860, vol. i. p. 109. M. Aiisclmier con- 
jectures that the formation of heat was due to the keeping up of a certain 
degree of acti^vity in the gastro-intestinal absorption, and tlie consequent 
chemical action in the interior of the hody, where it would not be lost by 
radiation. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 221 

' Poverhj, 

The valuable calculations of Dr. Playfair, * On the food ot 
man in relation to his useful work/ ^ enables us to arrive at a 
very practical estimate of what amount of solid victual ia 
required by an adult living by bodily labour, to preserve his 
health under various circumstances. The circumstances 
which chiefly influence the required amount can be classified 

as follows : — 

1. Bare existence ; 

2. Moderate exercise ; 

3. Active work ; 

4. Hard work. 

1. The diet of * bare existence,' or * subsistence diet,' is cal- 
culated from the mean of sundry prison diets, of the convales- 
cents' diet at hospitals, that of London needlewomen, and of 
that supplied during the Lancashire cotton-famine, as reported 
by Mr. Simon. The result is that in a condition of low health 
without activity, 2^ ounces of nitrogenous matter (calculated 
dry), 1 ounce of fat, 12 ounces of starch, and ^ of an ounce of 
mineral matters, ^er diem, are necessary. The contents in 
carbon are 7*44 ounces. This being interpreted means that a 
man will die gradually of starvation unless his provision for a 
week contains three pounds of meat with a pound of fat on it, 
or the same quantity of butter or lard, two quartern loaves of 
bread, and about an ounce of salt and other condiments. If 
he cannot get the meat, he must supply its place with, at least, 
two extra quartern loaves, or about a stone and a half of 
potatoes, or between 5 and 6 pounds of oatmeal. Unless,, 
indeed, he is so fortunately situated as to be able to get 
skimmed milk, of which five pints a week will fairly replace 
the meat. Let it be understood that all these articles must 
be good of their sort, and contain no indigestible matter or 

1 Lecture delivered at the Boycd InstUution, London, April 28, 1865,. 
published by Edmonston and Douglas, Edinburgh. 



222 DIET IN HEALTH. 

adulterant. And tHere is no economy in substituting for real 
nutriment things wbich merely stay the hunger by occupying 
the stomach for a longer period. The completeness of tho 
digestion is thus interfered with, and a morbid derangement 
of the function induced, which causes part of the food to be 
wasted. 

A person brought to bare existence diet can undergo no 
toil, mental or bodily, under the penalty of breaking down. 

2. By * moderate exercise ' is meant the equivalent of some 
— say from five to seven miles — walking daily. Dr. Playf air 
takes as foirly representing the appropriate food of this class the 
dietaries of English, French, Prussian, and Austrian soldiers in 
a time of peace. The English soldier on home service, according 
to Dr. Parkes, receives from Government five pounds and a 
quarter of meat and seven pounds of bread weekly, and buys 
iidditional bread, vegetables, milk, and groceries. Such a diet 
is amply sufficient for anybody under ordinary circumstances 
of regular light occupation: but should extra demands be 
made upon mind or body, weight is lost, and if tbe demands 
continue to be made, the health would seriously suffer. Mr. 
Buckland remarks (* Soc. of Arts Journal,* 1863, quoted by Dr. 
Playf air), that though the sergeants in the Guards fatten upon 
their rations, the quantity is not sufficient for recruits during 
their drills. 

3. * Active labourers ' are those who get through such an 
Amount of work daily, exclusive of Sundays, as may be repre- 
sented by a walk of twenty miles. In this class are soldiers 
•during a campaign, letter-carriers, engineers employed on field 
work or as artizans. These habitually consume on the average 
about a fifth more nitrogenous food, and twice as much fat as 
the last class, while the quantity of hydrocarbons is not aug- 
mented, except in the Royal Engineers. 

4. * Hard work ' is that got through by English navvies, 
hard- worked weavers, full-fed tailors and blacksmiths. It is 
difficult to obtain exact information, but it would appear from 
Dr. Playfair's estimates that the customary addition to the 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 223 

diet is entirely in nitrogenous constituents. The higher their 
wages the more meat the men eat. 

This neglect of vegetables by the two last classes is in a 
physiological point of view imprudent, and possibly may be a 
contributing cause of that inordinate desire for alcohol which 
impoverishes and degrades many among them. The discovery 
of the production of force from the assimilations of starch, 
leads to a knowledge, opposed indeed to old prejudices, but 
supported by experience, that the raising of the energies to 
their full height of usefulness may be effected by vegetable 
food quite as well as by the more stimulating and more ex- 
pensive animal nutriment. 

Deficient diet, like all morbid conditions, both corporeal 
and mental, is a vitiating and degenerating influence. Famine 
is naturally the mother of crimes and vices, not only of such, 
sort as will satiate the gnawing desire for food, but of general 
violence and lawlessness, ill-temper, avarice, lust, and cruelty. 

The love of purposeless destruction exhibited by the 
Parisian Communists in our own day may be fairly credited to 
deficient food. No well-fed people could have wrecked the 
Vend6me column or burnt the town-hall and Tuileries, of 
which they were so proud. They were like hungry children 
smashing their dolls. And Thucydides, Boccaccio, and Defoe 
are all agreed as to the hideous wickedness exhibited at 
Athens, Florence, and London during their famine-fevers. 
The exceptional instances are those where individuals or 
nations have conquered by courage and self-restraint their 
natural selfishness, and have made the interests of others 
paramount to their own. Am I blinded by love of my country, 
or may I justly quote the history of the Lancashire cotton- 
famine as a case in point ? 

In all physiology there is no more convincing proof of the 
benevolent government of the universe and of its perfecting 
influence upon our race than the fact that directly a man 
begins to care for others in preference to himself alone, his 
care ceases to wear a;nd exhaust him. It rather seems to be 



224 DIET IN HEALTH. 

a sastaining force. Observe a lunatic, induced to work hard 
for some worthy object — he grows fat ; let him sit still and 
brood over his wrongs, and he dies emaciated. Let an hypo- 
chondriac's wife or child fall ill — he is cheerful and well directly ; 
but he relapses as they become convalescent, and grows as thin 
and miserable as ever when he turns his attention to his own 
health. This is the reason why in sieges and famine medical 
men have often remained sleek and plump, while their neigh- 
bours pined, and perhaps also why military officers bear short 
rations better than the men. Like all divine'truths, ' to love 
your neighbour as yourself * is found to be taught by material 
nature, as well as by revelation. 



Fasting, 

Fasting is the voluntary restriction of the diet for the 
express purpose of developing the higher features of the mind. 
It is * a means of grace,' and approved as such by religious 
men of most opposite creeds and diverse nationalities. I am 
not going to question their experience, and I should bow to it 
even if it differed from my own, which is not the case. Like 
all the material machinery by which the bodily man influences 
the spiritual man, this * means to an end ' not only admits of, 
but requires frequently to be brought into harmony with the 
progress of knowledge concerning physical life ; and there- 
fore I think that in a manual of this sort mention of it should 
not be omitted. 

In the first place, to be useful, fasting must be wholly 
voluntary. If forcibly imposed, even by imperious custom, or 
enjoined as an end in itself, its principal effect is to sour the 
temper and narrow the intellectual apprehension for the time 
being. In fact, its physiological action is a minor degree of 
starvation. 

To secure its being wholly voluntary, it should be private, 
as advised by the highest authority of all. 



STARVATION— POVERTY— FASTING. 225 

At the same time that the act is voluntary, the maniier of 
it is best prescribed by another. If the peculiar form and 
degree of abstinence are self-imposed, they are apt to be 
excessive, and to do harm without any corresponding advan- 
tage. 

One of the highest mental developments to be expected 
from fasting is the power of self-control by voluntary effort. 
If a man finds himself during a fast weakened in his ability 
to concentrate his thoughts and to keep up his attention, it is 
doing him no good. If the instinctive appetites, implanted 
by nature, fail after it, injury to the health and individual 
degeneration follow. For these reasons it is best that the 
matter on which abstinence is exercised should be rather a 
luxury than a necessary. It is quite safe for a healthy man 
to leave off tobacco, wine, or beer, spices and sauces, hot meat, 
or even meat altogether, or vegetables altogether (if vegetables 
are a luxury to him), or pastry, or sugar, or butter for a day 
or two at a time ; especially if he withdraws himself from the 
bustle of the daily occupations. But it is not wise to do this 
too frequently, or to let the low diet become habitual. Like 
all acts of free will, it is most powerful in its effects on the 
mind when rare, and when it presents the strongest contrast 
to the usual life. If once they become habits, the spiritual 
influence of acts ceases. 

Those who never feast will find a difficulty in advan- 
tageously fasting. 



227 



CHAPTER X. 

THE DECLINE OF LIFE. 

Everybody who has passed the age of fifty (or thereabouts) 
with a fairly unimpaired constitution will act wisely in dimi- 
nishing his daily allowance of solid food. At the 'grand 
climacteric ' (as this turn of life is pompously called) the 
movements of nutrition are retarded, and the constructive and 
evacuating actions of the system being diminished, there is 
less call for materials of repair. It becomes a moral duty to 
ravoid all articles of diet which personal experience has shown 
to be difficult of solution, to make smaller meals, and if need 
be, more frequent meals, so that the stomach may be never 
overloaded or too long idle. The saving up an appetite for 
the enjoyment of an abundant repast may be conceded as a 
liarmless folly in our juniors, but it is a shame to a grey head. 
If custom has made a man a large eater, he should endeavour 
to * spoil his dinner * by a late luncheon, and to prevent his 
appetite being too keen at midday by breakfasting not over 
early. 

Loss of appetite or disgust for food is always a very 
serious symptom in old people, especially if it comes on sud- 
denly, increases rapidly, and is accompanied pari passu by 
other signs of atrophy ; it is usually the first sign of what 
may be called * acute old age,' a sudden break-down. 

The very aged and those who have lost their teeth early 
run some risk of not being sufficiently nourished, from 
swallowing their food rapidly. They are hurried over their 

q2 



228 DIET IN HEALTH. 

meals through the thoughtlessness of those around them, and 
since they chew slowly aud secrete saliva slowly, the food 
remains undigested. Their juniors should remember this, and 
govern themselves accordingly. A kindly British matron^ 
who spent more hours at table than was good for her, told me 
that if she did not do so, she * should be a widow in a week,* 
and that she habitually ate too much to keep her aged husband 
in countenance. Not a word could be said against such piou» 
gluttony. 

The dishes of meat should be as soft and tender as possible,, 
and the firmer kinds should be finely cut with a mincing- 
knife. But vegetables should not be over softened in cooking r 
there should be suflBcient resistance in them to make chewing 
imperative, so as to excite the secretion of the fluids of the 
mouth, which are required for their solution. Soups and 
broths are nutritious, but should not contain solid vegetables,, 
except just enough to flavour them. Puddings and pastry are 
not of much use, and overload the tired stomach. 

I do not know the authority for the old proverb, vinum loo 
senum, but it seems a very dangerous one, as it may lead our 
ancient friends to think they may treat it like mother's milk, 
and measure its benefits by the quantity imbibed. The saying, 
however, does partially embody a truth — ^namely, that in the 
decline of life the advantages derived from fermented liquors 
are more advantageous, and the injuries it inflicts less injurious 
than in youth. The efiect of alcohol is to check the activity 
of destructive assimilation, the rapidity of that moulting of 
the body's substance by normal secretion which in healthy 
youth cannot be excessive, but which in old age exhansts the 
frame. Alcohol calmly arrests the energies of the nervous 
system which would fret the tissues to decay, and would 
seriously weaken them, were not the wear and tear to be 
continuously replaced by new material. Now, with years, the 
replacement by nutrition is much diminished, and we, never- 
theless, are apt to persist in using our brains as before. We 
shrink, rightly enough, from being shelved just when the 



DECLINE OF LIFE. 229 

rewards of our exertions are becoming due ; and we do not 
care to rival the centuries of the olive or the yew, unless we 
can, like them, * renew our age ' and bear fruit unto the end. 
Here, then, alcohol steps in as a help in need, and it is strictly 
in accordance with the teachings of physiology to increase, as 
years increase upon us, the moderate quantity we had been 
taking previously. I do not write for habitual revellers and 
muzzy dram-drinkers (the sooner they become tea-totallers the 
longer they will live), but for the temperate, users of natural 
good things, and I am sure that they may reasonably obey the 
instinctive desire to take more and stronger wine as they grow 
in years. 

The physiologist Moleschoti, moreover, states that *a 
glass or two of good old wine augments the amount of gastric 
juice, the liquid which performs mainly the digestion of 
albuminous aliments.' ^ So that here we find another reason 
for indulging the instinct. 

Elderly people are able to do with less sleep than younkers, 
and need not be alarmed at a certain shortening of their 
night's rest which is natural. But sometimes the shortening 
goes too far, even in health ; they cannot get to sleep for a 
long time after going to bed, and are worn out with restless- 
ness and rolling about — ^not to mention that they disturb others 
also in many instances. This inconvenience may often be 
obviated by having an egg, a sandwich, a few biscuits or other 
light repast the last thing, accompanied by a glass of bitter 
ale, or sound wine and water. Sweet, strong wines are 
those usually recommended for this purpose : Hufeland re- 
commends Malaga ; and Burgundy or Port, warmed, spiced, 
diluted and sweetened, is not a bad drink ; but probably the 
best for each individual is that which association or whim 
makes most agreeable to the palate. Some prefer gruel or 
arrowroot to be the vehicle of the alcohol, and it certainly 
-dilutes and distributes the virtues of the draught efficaciously, 

* Kreislau/dea Lebetis, letter 6. 



230 DIET IK HEALTH. 

and also warms up the stoxnach comfortably; but it has a. 
ooddling inyalidish look which shoald be avoided. 

Dr. Welsted considers that it contribntes to length of days. 
to associate as much as possible with young people, and to 
adopt such habits and manners as may attract rather than. 
repel them, to which last there is a temptation in old age. 
And, of the young people, he holds, that the best companions- 
are those whose spirits are high and joyous, and who we can 
induce to rally round and infect us with their life. * For,* aa 
he says, Hhat solitude which is associated with fear and 
sorrow breaks up the strength of both mind and body.* 

It is almost' needless to say that ease of mind, contentment 
with the present, and cahn confidence in a future happy 
renewal of the worn-out body and soul, are specifics suitable 
for all cases. It is not hard work that kills the active, nor 
idleness that kills the man of leisure, be he old or young, but 
worry. ' The Lord is at hand, be careful for nothing,' is &. 
motto which will prolong the lives of all. 



231 



CHAPTER Xr. 

ALCOHOL. 

§ 1. Physical Effects. 

' Que me, Bacche, rapis 
Tui plenum ? ' 

Most people have asked themselves the same question thai 
Horace asks. To what does the instinctive thirst for alcohol 
lead ? We see around us disease, misery, and death directly 
traceable to its abnse. Is there a nse ? Does a temperate 
consumer shorten or prolong his days ? Or does he gain a 
pleasure without any consequent good or evil ? 

It was with a view of satisfying myself on these points 
that fifteen years ago I began a series of experiments which 
are detailed in a former work.* I should not quote them, 
had they not been repeated much more fully and satisfactorily, 
and the results confirmed, by the great authority of that care- 
ful observer Dr. Parkes. 

The conclusions to which these, and indeed all similar 
experiments lead, are as follows : — 

1. Small quantities of dilute alcoholic liquids taken with 
the meals slightly increase the activity of the renewal of the 
nitrogenous tissues, mainly muscle ; that is to say, there is a 
more rapid destructive assimilation, and a more rapid recon- 
struction of those parts, as is shown by the augmented 

* Lectures, chiefly Clinical, 4th edit. 1865. 



232 DI£T IN HEALTH. 

fonnation of nrea and the sharpened appetite. Life is fuller and 
more complete, old flesh is removed, and food appropriated as 
new flesh somewhat quicker, than when no alcohol is ing^ested. 
There appears to be a temporary rise in the digestive powers 
of the stomach, which is probably the initiative act. 

2. The nerve fonctions are slightly blanted, an effect which 
is coincident with a lessened excretion of phosphorus, and 
probably due to a partial and temporary check to the renewal 
of the nervous tissue. Alcohol in small doses blunts sorrow 
and pain, checks the sensation of weariness which the over- 
rftpid functioning of the nerves has caused in mind or body, 
takes the points off the stings of daily life — ^but at the same 
time corrupts the delicate appreciation of higher delights. 
In respect of the senses there is lessened impressibility by light, 
by sound, by touch. The higher the sensibility of the part 
under ordinary circumstances, the more obvious its anasthesia 
under the influence of spirituous liquors. For instance, there 
is in the upper lip and cheeks a feeling of stiffness and pufii- 
ness, one of the first symptoms of lowered sensation, and 
familiar in cases of partial paralysis. There is a carelessness 
about changes of temperature ; the fire does not scorch and 
the east wind does not chill. The dartos and other muscles 
connected with the reproductive system are relaxed, as also 
the sphincter of the bladder, partly accounting for the 
increased micturition during indulgence. The pulse is 
quickened, a phenomenon always attendant on temporary 
debility of the heart's action.^ 

The * vital capacity ' of the lungs, as evidenced by the 
spirometer, is lessened to a moderate extent, which seems to 
show a diminished oxidation in the pulmonary tissue. 

3. A larger dose causes a sluggish action of the capillary 
circulation. In the parts usually exposed to the eye there is 
the muddy flush by which the artist and actor mark the face 
Qf the * fuddled ' man. And it is probable that the same 

> Dr. E. Smith, Trans, of Boyal Society, 1859. p. 732. 



ALCOHOL. 233 

vonous congestion is common to tlie surface of tlie body. As 
the same congestion begins to affect the deeper parts, as 
Flourens describes it in the cerebellum,^ and Brodie in the 
stomach,^ a want of co-ordination in the movements, and some- 
times vomiting from arrested digestion, follow. 

4. Life and warmth are so closely connected together in 
scientific as well as in popular notions, that perhaps the most 
striking evidence of diminished vitality is the lessened capa- 
bility to generate heat. And we have this evidence in the 
case of alcohol. MM. Dumeril and Demarquay published in 
1848 their observation, that intoxicated dogs exhibited a great 
loss of temperature; and Dr. Boecker^ and Dr. Hammond 
find in their own persons the same result from even moderate 
doses of spirits. This accords with and explains the ex- 
perience of Dr. Rae, that alcoholic drinks give no satisfaction 
to Arctic voyagers, and of Dr. Hayes (Surgeon and Commander 
in U.S. second Grinnell Expedition) that they actually lessen 
the power of resisting cold.* The * warming of the stomach * 
which dram-drinkers speak of with such gusto is, in fact, a 
fallacious sensation arising out of insensibility to external in- 
fluences. 

5. When the poisoning is still more profound, the conges- 
tion of the nervous centres produces complete apoplexy, and 
that of the stomach, gastritis. The traces of these morbid 
conditions are found after death, but the loss of life seems due 
to the paralysis of the respiratory muscles and the lowered tem- 
perature of the body. I am unwilling to enlarge further upon 
•dead drunkenness and fatal alcoholic poisoning, as I have no 
personal observations on the subject to record, and their 
•commonly reported characteristics are repeated here, princi- 
pally, to show their essential agreement in physiological nature 
with the temporary and harmless action of the substance. 

* Becherches sur lesfonctions du systeme nervcux, Paris, 1824. 
2 Philosophical Transactions^ 1811. 

■ Beitrdge zur Heilkunde^ i. 250. 

* American Journal of the Medical Sciences, 1850, p. 117. 



234 DIET IN HEALTH. 

6. After the check to vital functions cansed bj- alcobol has 
passed off, there ensnes a reaction in destructive assimilation, 
and the retained nitrogenous and phosphatic constituents of 
the secretions are abundantly excreted. And after this haa 
passed awaj, there is reason to believe that no injury remains, 
but that life goes on as before. 

7. The reaction may, however, be arrested by fresh doses of 
alcohol. And here is the line of safety overstepped. If the 
sensations of the reaction, which are disagreeable in proportion 
to the action, are not borne with, but are stayed with con- 
tinuous, though moderate doses, then there soon commence and 
rapidly proceed a series of degenerations of tissue of fatal 
tendency. These are simply perpetuations of that temporary- 
check to life given by the alcohol. 

8. If the primary action of the alcohol was on the nervons 
system, by reason either of its adjuncts, the largeness of the 
dose, or other circumstances, then the nervous system prin- 
cipally exhibits the derangement, and we have the varieties of 
delirium tremens. If the dose is smaller, more dilute, but yet^ 
from its frequent repetition not compensated by sufficient reac- 
tion, there follow degenerations of the circulating system, and 
as an immediate consequence degenerations of all the tissues^ 
which it feeds. The hver, the kidneys, the heart, and even 
the cellular tissue of the limbs degenerate, and almost every 
sort of chronic local inflammation may be with more or lesa 
frequency sometimes traced to alcohol taken in small repeated 
doses. In fact, the lowering of the vital functions, which 
might be harmless or beneficial when temporary, through 
being followed by a reaction generally equal and sometimes, 
even stronger than itself, is necessarily of a fatal nature — 
being partial death, it leads to total death if it is allowed. 
Secretion of new flesh being retarded, the organic material 
which ought to form it, grows into a semi-organic morbid 
tissue, bloodless, insensitive, useless, which we call cirrJiosis. 
This gradually dries up arid shrinks, like a scar, and thus 
puckers up the gland it is in, forming ' nutmeg liver,* * granular- 



ALCOHOL. 235 

kidney,' thickening of the mucous membranes in larynx and. 
elsewhere, and arterial degeneration. 

The * vital capacity ' of the chest is diminished to the ex- 
tent of from 20 to 30 cubic inches in chronic drinkers ; and 
this diminution does not vary, which seems to point to a per- 
manent loss of elasticity in the pulmonary tissue. 

9. By alcohol the aqueous portion of the urine is not- 
increased. Whatever augmentation in amount takes place, 
is due simply to the addition of the article drunk. Micturition,, 
however, is more frequent, and is due to the loss of power in 
the sphincters, combined with a tendency in the ingested 
alcohol to leave the blood rapidly and be felt as a foreign 
body in the bladder. This liveliness of the urinary organs- 
seems a preservative against the deleterious effects of the drug. 

10. When we consider how completely the whole 
body is saturated by alcohol taken in any marked excess, we 
cannot be surprised to hear that the evil effects of it are not 
rarely transmitted to future generations. In a recent work,^ 
Dr. Auguste Yoisin has published the results of an investiga- 
tion into the consequences to the children of the fathers ' 
addiction to intoxication, and very terrible they are. Of 
seventeen cases where the spark of germ-life was struck during 
the drunkenness of the father, in eleven infantile convulsions, 
caused the child's death shortly after its birth. Less fortunate 
were those who survived: three were idiots, two were 
epileptic, and one the subject of chronic myelitis. Of course- 
this list is not a full statistical representation of the conse- 
quences of the parent's excess : for those who escape do not 
become subject to medical examination, and there is no means 
of knowing how many they may be. But it is a very terrible 
list for all that. 

Chronic alcoholism in the parents is still more curst than 
the action of the acute condition above alluded to ; it does, 
not cut off the victims by a sudden blow, but allows them. 

* L'AIcoolisnie et la Sequestration des AlUnh, p. 3. 



•236 DIET IN HEALTH. 

to live on in indefinite wretcliedness. Of eighteen cases 
traced by Dr. Yoisin, eight were idiots and ten were 
•epileptic. 

The effects, then, on a healthy man of taking with a meal 
snch a quantity of fermented liquor as puts him at ease with 
himself and the world around, withoat untoward exhilaration, 
is a diminution of the wear of the nervous system, especially 
that employed in emotion and sensation. Thence there ensues 
a raising of the digestive powers and appetite, should they 
have been anywise unconsciously blunted by the psychical 
movements above mentioned. Just as ofben, then, as the zest 
for food is so far lowered, that it is found to be raised to the 
normal standard by a little wine or beer with a meal, the 
moderate drinker is as much really better, as he feels the better 
for his liquor. In cases, however, where the food is as keenly 
-enjoyed without the aid of any of the products of fermentation, 
their consumption is certainly useless. So long as alcohol, in 
the indirect mode mentioned, augments vital metamorphosis, it 
ministers to the force of the body. But it is not a source of 
force, and its direct action is an arrest of vitality. This should 
be clearly understood by all those who try to have rational 
rules to guide them in proffering advice as to the dietetic 
use of a ' stimulant.' That word means a ' spur,' and inas- 
much as a spur is employed either before or during the exertion 
it is supposed to bear upon, liquor is often resorted to as a 
means of invigorating a temporary effort. Now the truth is, 
that if it has any effect at all on a healthy man, it directly 
weakens nerve power, while at the same time it lowers the 
bodUy temperature, on the maintenance of which the capacity 
for muscular exertion depends. 

It cannot be concealed that even without infringing on 
high health, alcohol in small divided doses and between meals, 
■dram-drinker's fashion, deranges the metamorphosis of the 
tissues, and in the direction of arrest. And persistence in the 
habit must lead in the end to permanently diminished organisa- 
tion, degeneration, atrophy. Just as a disused limb wastes 



ALCOHOL. 23T 

away, so ranst the unrenewed tissues die off gradually, till 
they become unequal to the support of a healthy man's^ 
existence. 

The most dangerous use to which this so-called * stimulus '* 
can be applied, is to postpone and still worse to keep off alto- 
gether the natural reaction after indulgence. If head- workers 
or body- workers swallow drams of a morning never let them 
hope for success in their undertakings. Both body and mind 
will be incapacitated, the life shortened, and all the joy taken 
out of what remains. One of the most telling questions that 
can be asked of a life proposed for insurance is, ' Do you ever 
take spirituous liquors in the forenoon ? * If the answer is in 
the affirmative, an immediate rejection is the only safe course- 
for the office.* As to small quantities of beer or wine that are 
consumed between breakfast and the midday meal, the evidence 
against it is not quite so decisive, bat, at all events, it renders a 
man less fit for his daily work than he would otherwise be, and is. 
a dangerous downward movement towards the abyss of dram* 
drinking. It will generally be found to have been the first 
fatal step in the cases of women, of the upper classes who have 
adopted the practice. To the shame of our profession it must 
be confessed that many of us have erred unpardonably by 
sanctioning the habit in self-indulgent patients. 

There is a third side to the question — a man must be- 
viewed not only as a possible victor, but as liable to the reverse 
fortune, on the battle-field or in the struggles of life. Both 
sides cannot win. During the Crimean War the Eussian 
surgeons were reviled for serving out spirits to their troops 
under fire; but were they not wise to calculate the after 
consequences of an engagement, and to prepare the bodies of 

■ In the Finance Chronicle for October, 1875, a stiggestion is made to 
put the question thus : * Do you ever take spirits in the forenoon, except as 
a medical prescription ? * The latter clause is useless, for if an insurer is- 
in such low health as really to require spirits in the forenoon, he is already 
a bad life ; if he has got a doctor who orders them needlessly, he will reiy 
shortly become a bad life. 



238 DIET IN HEALTH. 

iheir clients for snccessfallj bearing blows and wonnds ? 
* They have stricken me and I knew it not,' says Solomon's 
drunkard; and oar accident ward at Christmas time wiil 
seldom fail to show proof of the power to resist severe injuries 
conferred by unwonted indulgence in the joys of Bacchus. A 
healthy man who gets the worst of it in any way, whose 
intellectaal or muscular energy goes down under the pressure 
of the work demanded, gets the worst of it in a less degree 
by the aid of strong drink. Give it him when ready to perish, 
from the drain on his nerve tissues, and his life is saved. The 
labourer whose limbs are stiff with his day's toil, and the 
brain- worker who still more acutely feels the wear and tear of 
Thread winning, are not wasting that part of their earnings 
which they spend on a fair ration of beer or wine at their 
evening meal. 

Are there, against the ill consequences traceable to alcohol, 
any other preservatives, besides those found in the purity of 
the liquor itself ? Any guardians, innate or acquired, resi- 
dent in the body of the consumer ? 

There are probably few readers of British literature, who 
have not smiled at Addison's light banter of the amateur 
self -doctor, who says he commits an excess on the first Monday 
in every month for the good of his health.* But, perhaps all 
are not aware that this is a strict carrying out of the opinion 
deduced by the ingenious Sanctorius from careful observa- 
tions made upon his own person. He says that * They who 
use regular diet want the benefit of those who debuuch once 
or twice a month.' ^ 

But if the previous aphorisms are read it will be seen that 
the author grounds his opinion on the fact, that the weight of 
the body is less next day * without any sensible evacuation.* 
This merely implies that less food has been assimilated, an 
advantage only to those who habitually eat too much. All 
the possible benefit of the monthly debauch might be 

> Spectator, No. 25. 

2 Medicina Statioa, Aph, 100. Qainceys translation. 



ALCOHOL. 239 

g£aned, in certainly a more dignified manner, hy a day's 
fasting. 

The only justification for an aphoiism pregnant with so 
mncli danger is the truth that occasional excesses, however 
much they may disturb the functions at the time, are infinitely 
less noxious than habitual dram-drinking. Tho most certain 
victims to alcohol are those who are always sipping, though 
' never drunk in their lives ; ' whereas we have all of us 
known many a toper who has attained green old age by letting 
an interval elapse between his bouts of riot. 

One collateral preservative is the kidney. If this organ is 
active above the wont of human kidneys, a large proportion 
of tho alcohol swallowed passes away unchanged and harmless 
in a short space of time, as is shown by the researches of Dr. 
Percy, Mr. Masing, and the French physiologists, MM. 
Perrin and Duroy, who have repeated their experiments. 

A further preservative against the dangers of alcohol is to 
be found in a full aeration of the blood. Those who can bear 
much liquor without constitutional effects have usually a high 
vital capacity of chest in proportion to their stature ; 
whereas those whose health is injured by it fail to raise the 
spirometer to the proper measure of cubic inches ; so that by 
this means, constitutions damaged by drink can be detected at 
insurance offices. It may be observed also, that a free supply 
of fresh air during meals modifies considerably the results of 
imprudence. 

Hence we may deduce these rules for the use of alcohol by 
healthy persons. 

(A.) Let it be taken never as a stimulant or preparative 
for work, but as a defence against the injury done by work, 
whether of mind or body. For example, it is best taken with 
the evening meal, or after toil. 

(B.) Let the increase in the desire for and power of digest- 
ing food be the guide and limit to the consumption of all 
alcoholic liquids. 



240 DIET IN HEALTH. 

(C.) Let the forms bo sucli as contain the least proportion 
of fnsel oil. 

(D.) Let all with an hereditary tendency to hysteria or 
other functional disease of the nervons system, refrain from, its 
nse altogether, even though as yet they are in good health. 
Among the hereditary tendencies must be classed a proclivity 
to delight in dmnkenness, which remarkably runs in families. 
Children with snch an heirloom had best be kept to as late 
an age as possible without tasting strong drink. 



§ 2. Moral Effects of Alcohol. 

All nations that have led the van in the march of civilisa- 
tion, have been addicted to drink — aye, and addicted to 
drunkenness. The Jews, the Greeks, the Bomans, the 
Grermans, the Swedes, the Danes, not to mention the English 
all round the globe, are amply attested by their own native 
literature to have been distinguished above their contempo- 
raries in this way.^ It is true that some reactionary races, 
famous as conquerors, have been abstinent, but they and their 
faiths are dying out, and the colouring they have given to 
civilisation is even now fainter than that left by the robuster 
races a thousand years before they were heard of. Yet we 
learn at the same time from the same impartial witness, that 
vice, and vice too of a sort which is destructive to the social 
well-being of a community, is conspicuously traceable on a vast 
scale to strong drink. We read of it in patriarchal times as 
leading to a breach of the instinctive reverence due to parents, 

* Dp. Bowditch contends that proneness to drunkenness is governed by 
climatic law, becoming stronger in proportion to distance from the equator. 
But as he allows of the influence of hereditary disposition, the law does not 
guide us to much inference. The widely dispersed races are not appreciably 
affected in their habits by isothermal lines. Facilities for growing the 
grape depend doubtless on climate, but I think Dr. Bowditch's own map and 
data exclude its influence On man in respect of alcohol. — See Third Annual 
Beport to State Board of Health of Massachusetts^ 



ALCOHOL. 241 

then to the vindictive cnrsing of a son, then to incest, then to 
murder, and so on in a continuous series up to the vnfe-beat- 
ings in yesterday's police reports. 

How shall this conflict be reconciled ? How is it that 
ignorance, poverty, and vice, which daily are degrading the 
individual drinker, spare the community? Is it that the 
statisticians have erred by collecting evidence only for the 
prosecution, and omitting a class to counterbalance the 
criminals ? I think so. The temperate man, who takes, in 
proportion to his needs, fermented liquors with his meals, has 
been put out of sight altogether. Yet is he the pillar of his 
country's prosperity, prolific, prosperous, and contented. It 
is probably his increase in number and power which balances 
the amount of vice and misery caused by excess in drink. It 
is not safe for the political economist to neglect his interest, 
as would be done by legislative measures tending to make the 
beverages he requires more difficult of attainment, by impedi- 
ments to their purchase or the enhancement of their price. 
Still less is it safe by social pressure to lead him to banish the 
beer jug or the bottle from his table, and hide it in secret 
cupboards, or to drive him to sly grog-shops between meals. 
He should rather be induced by the cheapness of wholesome 
fermented liquors to employ them for domestic use, and to 
forego the dangerous product of the still. 

In Nineveh of old (as Mr. Smith reads to us from the 
arrowhead records), Ishtar, goddess of carnal love, behaved at 
one time so scandalously, that the reigning sovereign per- 
suaded the heavenly powers to let him banish her to the 
nether world. (Few that read the published translation can 
forget the picturesque monotone in which her gradual decay 
into silence is narrated at solemn length.) But no sooner was 
she put down, than matters essential to the f ature continuance 
of the race went all wrong, and the fidghtened mover of this 
early repressive bill was obliged to petition for her return ; 
and back again she came in the same tedious way that she 
went. If this is history, it is a valuable experience ; if it is a 

B 



242 DIET IN HEALTH. 

myih, a prescient knowledge of man's nature is sliowii, pi^- 
nant of warning to the legislator. For there is no daji^r to 
a lawfol goyemment greater than for a well-behaved and good 
subject to feel himself deprived of his natural rights of 
developing his health and strength to its utmost ; ajid the 
sense of injustice is further aggravated bj this deprivation 
being for the sake of those morally inferior to himself. He is 
tempted habitually to treat the source of law with disrespect. 

We need not hesitate to transfer to the regulation of 
matters connected with alcoholic excess experience derived 
from another cognate temptation. The crimes attendant on 
both are developments of selfishness, and the want of that self- 
restraint which we were sent into the world to learn, and which 
a man may fairly complain of a so-called paternal legislation 
depriving him of the opportunity of learning. 

But the removal of the means of excess, out of false tender- 
ness to the exceeders, and at the expense of the temperate is 
one thing, and the repression of their excesses is quite another 
— nay more, they are antagonistic. Pagan and Christian 
moralists of old allowed the argument that drunkenness might 
be reckoned an extenuation of a crime committed under its 

influence. In the court of conscience possibly it may be so . 

perhaps the sin is less. And on the theory that it is 
the business of the temporal sword of justice to punish sin, as 
sin, and in proportion to its sinfulness, legislators were right 
in conceding the plea to criminals. Even now in Italy it 
legally mitigates punishment. But I believe I am correct in 
saying that a higher political education has in our age changed 
this view, and the province of law is daily more and more con- 
sidered to be confined to the protection of society, not of God. 
Now society, without a doubt, runs greater risk of damage by 
violence at the instigation of drunkenness than at the instigation 
of all other incentives whatever; and therefore justice has 
advanced so far as in theory to hold it an aggravation of an 
oflence. She feels that she ought to be most a terror to those 
from whom she is in greatest danger. In theory, yes — but 



ALCOHOL. 243 

she has not reduced her theory to written rules ; and in practice 
we daily read instances of the mediaeval prejudice prevailing, 
and of criminals lightly treated because they are drunk. I 
should like to see this barbarous squeamishness pass away, 
and to see society protected by adding some deterrent 
degradation to crime committed during intoxication. I should 
like, for instance, to see the brute who kicks his wife and 
children when in liquor well flogged, in addition to the 
penalty for assault. And drunken exposure of the person, and 
insults to young girls, might fairly be treated with the same 
indignity. True, this drunken beast is in his sober hours less 
thoroughly bestial than one who has done the same act out of 
sober and deliberate cruelty. But that makes him all the 
fitter a subject for active practice. The less innate turpitude 
there is in a criminal, the more possible it is to deter and reform 
him. Severity is worth practising when there is a chance of 
its being successful : just as when a patient has a good con- 
stitution, vigorous treatment of an accidental ailment is to be 
commended. 

Habitual intoxication might justly be made a ground for 
the dissolution of marriage, in that a wrong is done to the 
nation, as well as to the innocent partner, when it is burdened 
with members incapable of contributing to the common weal; 
which is so likely to be the case with the progeny of drunkards. 
When the wrong is involuntary, we pardon it ; but alcoholism 
cannot plead that excuse, unless it take its stand on the ground 
of insanity, which removes the question into another category 
altogether. Those who claim the rights of free agents must 
answer for all the consequences of their acts. 

Were the law to express such a marked disapproval of 
drunken husbands and wives, the benefit would extend much 
wider than the few whom it might free from the chain of 
matrimony : for it would teach men and women what a grave 
ofience is committed by risking the parentage of an idiot, and 
lead them to take means to avoid it. 

But can the State do nothing for that prevention which 

c 2 



244 DIET IN HEALTH. 

wo physicians have so long heen proclaiming is a nobler work 
than the most certain cure of a disease, without chaining that 
individual liberty we enjoy, so essential to the education of a 
citizen ? Yes — the legislative authorities have the opportanlty 
of materially advancing the good of their country : — 

(a) By cheapening through fiscal regulations all whole- 
some fermented drinks, snch as good beer and wine, and by 
laying the burden of taxation on the retail trade in spirits. 

Encouragement may be taken from what has lately 
happened in California. Mr. James Morrison writes to the 
Massachusetts Board of Health (1872) :— 

' Before the introduction of native wines, when the stronger 
alcoholic stimalants were used, drunkenness was very common 
in California. The native wines are now found in nearly 
every household ; they have supplanted to a great extent the 
use of the stronger alcohohc drinks. It is a fact, which no 
one familiar with California for the last twenty years will 
deny, that drunkenness is much less common now than for- 
merly. This change is undoubtedly due to the substitution 
of the wine of the country for the stronger alcoholic stiniTi- 
lants.' 

Again, the very decided effect which financial legislation 
can have upon the comparative consumption of different sorts 
of liquors is shown by the effect of the Budget of April 6, 
1872, which laid a heavy tax upon absinthe in France. 
Within a year from that date M. Bergeron was able to report 
to the temperance society that the consumption of the said 
liqueur had diminished by nearly one half. See Bevus des 
Deux Mondes, March 15, 1874, p. 476. 

Nevertheless the most powerful engine for securing to 
mankind the beneficial influences of alcohol without its atten- 
dant dangers, is to be sought in the habits and silent pressure 
of social life. As our race becomes more humanised by train- 
ing and experience, it is more to be trusted to make use of 
Heaven's gifts without abusing them ; and the degradation 
of mind and body which alcohol is capable of entailing will 



ALCOHOL. 245 

become hateful at the same pace as its true valae becomes 
understood. Such a progress is worth a hundredfold all pos- 
sible legislation. The man who prefers law to custom 
announces a principle which would set the means above the 
end, would stereotype imperfect efforts, and substitute cork 
jackets for the power of swimming. Towards the progress of 
temperate habits every man can contribute — and who more 
powerfdlly than the medical man ? — ^by the example of the 
moderate use of fermented beverages of the right sort at proper 
times, and by discountenancing excess. There is a difficulty 
in sending a drunkard to an asylum, but he is easily sent * to 
Coventry ' and made to feel that he is a degraded animal. 
There may possibly be some rare cases to be found of true 
* dipsomania ; ' where, without any other mental disease, the 
patients are carried off by an uncontrollable impulse to drink ; 
but they certainly are very rare indeed, and every alleged in- 
stance that I have investigated has always exhibited also some 
other form of insanity, sufficient to justify the imposition of re- 
straint, or else proved to be using the cant of the day, as an ex* 
cuse for wickedness. The few exceptional cases may be excep- 
tionally dealt with as they occur ; but as a rule I think it is 
better to give responsible animals the education of being their 
own gaolers than to let them lean on. the weak crutch of State 
inebriate asylums. 

Voluntary association for the purpose of mutual en- 
couragement in temperance, for the discouragement of drunken- 
ness and the use of ardent spirits, or for the prosecution of 
the sellers of adulterated beverages, stands on a different 
footing from legislative control. It is a step in self-education. 
But unhappily it has been stopped from useful employment by 
the fatal snare of exaggeration. The denouncement of alcohol 
as always a poison, and its use for good fellowship as a sin, is 
now inseparably united in our minds with societies for the 
promotion of true temperance ; and thus the latter virtue has 
been retarded by the fatal prejudice of being tied up in tie 
same bundle with a fallacy. The society formed in France 



4 



246 DIET IN HEALTH. 

about two years ago, niider the title * L* Association franQaise 
conire Vahus des boissons alcooHqties,* though it may not make 
such a noise as our teetotalism, has a better basis of action. 
The proposed object is to encourage the substitution of in- 
offensive and salutary drinks for spirits. It accepts and re- 
commends the use of beer, of natural wine, as well as of tea 
and coffee at meals, after the day's work is done, but sets its 
face sturdily against distilled liquors, facilities for liquoring 
between meals, and all excess. For my part I have faith in 
the continuous improvement of the human race ; and I think 
I can see, not so very far ahead in the fature, the influence 
of alcohol upon health perfected in its good, and deprived 
of its evil, without the dubious aid of any prohibitive legisla- 
tion. 

Some well-meaning persons think to discourage intem- 
perance in drink by affecting a cynical carelessness as to the 
quality of that which is consumed. They allow their guests 
' a little wine for their stomachs' sake,' but serve it out as like 
a drug as possible. It is nothing to them if it be adulterated 
or not — ' wipe away all poetry, all refinement from the cup,* 
quoth they, ' and it will cease to tempt.* This reasoning is 
utterly false. As long as a sensual pleasure is coarse and rude, 
it can be attractive only by its quantity, and all indulgence can 
be only excess. But let it dress itself in the charms of the 
heaven-born sense of beauty, let the enjoyment of it be shared 
with others, and be associated with noble and beautiful 
memories, and moderation becomes a law of its existence. The 
sensuality of the savage is selfish, shameless, and unbridled. 
With the advance of manners it first parts with its selfishness, 
then it acknowledges the evils of excess, and then curbs itself 
more till it ceases to be intemperance at all. True of other 
gratifications of instinctive desire, this is especially true in 
respect of drinking. The better the wine is, and the more 
attractive its aspect, the less likely are people to take too much 
of it. When Anacreon and Horace, Phidias and Cellini, 
Etruscan potters and Venetian glass-blowers, conspired to 



ALCOHOL. 247 

wreathe the goblet with a halo of romance, they substituted 
an elegant appreciation for a degrading animalism, and led 
society a step onwards in morality. And with reverence it 
may be noticed that our Divine Exemplar first manifested 
forth his glory by giving to his village neighbours not only 
wine, but a pleasanter wine than they were accustomed to. I, 
therefore, hold it to be a duty of everyone to see that what- 
ever sort of beverage is provided for his household should be 
the best of its sort, the most agreeable to the educated palate, 
and adorned with the most refined surroundings that circum- 
stances allow. However little a man's purse allows him to 
drink, let it be good. 




PAET m. 



DIETETICS IN SICKNESS. 



CHAPTER I. 

THE DIET AND REGIMEN OF ACUTE FEVERS. 

The principal fevers in the Nomenclature are small-pox, 
chicken-pox, measles, scarlatina, tjphns, enteric (or gastric), 
relapsing, yellow, remittent, cholera, mumps, influenza. The 
names are sufficient to explain what is meant here by fever. 
And now what is to be learnt from the adjective * acute ' ? It 
points to one of the most practical divisions of diseases we can 
have to guide us in treatment — that into acute and chronic. 
We are not always quite sure in which class to place the case 
we happen to be considering ; but in an overwhelming majority 
of instances there is no doubt at all ; and when we have decided 
the light thrown on the path to treatment is clear and bright. 
By * acute ' disease is meant such as has a tendency to progress 
in a circle towards recovery : each process, however dangerous 
and strange it may be, being a step towards the arrival at that 
result, if only the sick man's strength hold out. While of 
* chronic * the road is straight on from bad to worse, unless 
from the interposition of some extraneous agency foreign to 
the disease itself. Dr. Pierre Petit, in the preface to his 
' Commentary on AretaBus,' compares the former to race-horses, 
which run round to the goal, unless they founder on the way : 
one might in the same strain liken the path of the latter to 
that fatal descent which leads to Avemus. This distinction is 
of essential importance when we come to estimate the value of 
remedial measxires. Nearly all the fallacies which have over- 
laden our druggists' shops, not to speak of a variety of theories 
ending in * pathy,' which crop up from time to time, flow from ^M 



252 DIET IN SIGEN£SS. 

watching the aonte phenomena in disease, as an index of the 
effect of a medicine. Now, a very moderate spice of medical 
logic will suffice to show that it is only from the nnmerical 
comparison of many puhlic institutions for many years that an 
opinion can be formed in acute disease concerning that effect. 
Whereas in chronic disease, one cautious man may from a 
very small number of well-considered cases come to a reason- 
able conclusion as to the value of any really active medication. 
I am used, therefore, in instructing pupils, to insist very much 
on the differences between acuteness and chronicity : I believe 
the idea to be of great importance in the formation of the 
medical mind. And in the limited department of therapeutics 
treated of in this volume it must not be passed over, for in the 
most chronic cases there are acute phenomena, and in acute 
oases there are sometimes elements of chronicity which require 
a just estimate to be formed of them, when we come to test 
the efficacy of our efforts at relief. 

In acute fevers, it is evident that it is not our business to 
try and arrest the symptoms, any more than it is our business 
to arrest the rising tides. We must only take care that they 
do not swamp our boat, and the safest way to do that is to 
keep the vessel as sound as possible and as capable of resisting 
external agencies as we can make it. The value of nutrition 
in fevers has been observed from the earliest times : Hippo- 
crates thought so much of it that the point of his treatise, 
' On the management of acute diseases,' lies in his recommen- 
dation of the use of wine, and of a ptisan of barley which we now 
call * gruel.* The proper preparation of the latter he considers 
so important, that he condescends to tell us how to make it, so 
that it may be * thin, but not too thin ; thick, but not too thick,* 
as Miss Austen describes the perfection of this dietetic article. 
But during the dark ages of medical science a bugbear called 
Inflammation was set up, and acute disease grew to be con- 
sidered a devouring flame, which must be starved out by re-s 
moving fuel. The scare culminated in the French physicians 
of the last generation, who actually dejprived the sick of all food 



ACUTE FEVERS. 253 

whatsoever, as a mode of treatment, and called it diete. That 
was going too far, and the results terrified the neighbouring 
islanders, who in the person of Dr. Graves found a voice and 
maintained, not only in deeds but in words, that the ' feeding 
of fevers ' was the most essential feature in their cure. In 
following his master, Dr. Graves goes a step beyond the can- 
tious Hippocrates ; for though he sticks to gruel, barley water, 
and whey the first three or four days, he quickly after that 
proceeds to chicken broth, meat jelly, and strong soup. It 
would be a platitude to point out the difference in the mortality 
since this change of practice. Everybody acknowledges its 
wisdom, except a very few eccentrics. 

The great art of duly nourishing fever patients consists in 
giving a frequent, aknost continuous, supply of Hquid nutri- 
ment containing very soluble aHments in a dilute form. Per- 
haps I may be allowed to quote myself on this subject, and 
reproduce a clinical lecture I delivered at St. Mary's Hospital 
fourteen years ago. 

* The physician sees that a large supply of nitrogenous 
material must be wanting. The nitrogenous tissues are de- 
vitalised, are drained away in a disproportionate excretion of 
urea and other organic compounds, and nothing is taking their 
place. Shall he act antagonistically, and try to stop the passage 
of urea by the kidneys ? I do not know exactly how he would 
set about it ; but I do know that if he succeeded, he would do 
positive harm ; for the very worst cases of fever are those in 
which metamorphosis is active (as shown by the heat), while 
the excretion of urea is arrested (as shown by the lightness of 
the urine) ; they resemble cases of ursamic poisoning from 
diseased kidneys. The other principles of treatment which I 
noticed in my introductory lecture would not, perhaps, be so 
directly injurious, but common sense would still allot the palm 
to restoration here. Let it be your chief aim to supply that 
which you clearly see is passing away— nitrogenous tissue. 

* But how will you supply it ? Solid food would in all 
probability be vomited, from the unbearable loathing it excites. 



4 



254 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

If not vomited, it would lie for some time a mere foreign body 
outside the mncons membrane of the digestive canal, and then 
pass away by diarrhoea, with much flatns and f etior, and much 
disengagement of gas during putrefaction. Your beefsteak 
might as well have been at once thrown down its final destina- 
tion, the water-closet, to which it passes putrid, though undi- 
gested. Neither is it wise to fill the stomach with large quan- 
tities of victuals, for the same result follows. No * meals,' 
therefore, must be allowed ; and prudence suggests the giving 
in their place very small doses of nitrogenous aliment very 
frequently. These pass over the irritated stomach uncon- 
sciously, and are taken up gradually by the intestines, requiring 
but very little to make them fit for absorption. The suitablest 
food is that which is naturally supplied to the weakest stomach. 
The feeble digestive organs of babies can assimilate milk, and 
milk forms the most appropriate nourishment for the debili- 
tated viscera of the fever patient. By giving two or three 
ounces every hour, you may get down a quart and a half per 
diem. But under ordinary circumstances every two hours is 
often enough. If there is sufficient acid left in the stomach to 
coagulate the casein into clots, and cheesy lumps are rejected 
by vomiting, as happens sometimes in milder cases, you may 
guard against this by adding liquor calcis or soda-water to the 
milk, or you may supply its place by beef-tea. But it is the 
lumping of the cheese into solid masses that it is desirable to 
avoid, not the acidification, which is beneficial. If the patient 
takes thus a good supply of milk and beef-tea, not only is the 
imminent danger of death by starvation avoided, but the 
emaciation which follows during convalescence is much less 
extreme, and the dangers in its wake less formidable. 

* Eggs are a highly nutritious food : if taken raW, and di- 
luted with milk or water, they are quickly absorbed. But 
should they be delayed and putrefy, the products of their de- 
composition are peculiarly injurious : the sulphuretted hydro- 
gen and ammonia evolved are poisons to the intestines. I 
should recommend you to avoid eggs till convalescence has 



ACUTE FEVERS. 255 

restored the gastric powers. The same objection does not lie 
against milk, the lactic acid arising from whose decomposition 
assists in the solution of the caseine. Sour buttermilk is by 
no means to be despised as a food.'^ 

When a patient cannot be raised in bed without risk of 
exhaustion, a crockery or glass feeder is a convenience, but 
the same vessel, or even one of the same appearance, should 
not be used for food and for medicine. 

If the patient's mouth be foul, as in small-pox or putrid 
fever, it should be cleansed when he is fed. The administra- 
tion of nutriment should then be so frequent that it is not 
allowed to become again foul. In fact, the cleaner it is kept in 
the intervals, the better. 

Food taken by the mouth should be as near the tempera- 
ture of the body as possible. But when the febrile heat is 
high, or there is much nausea, some of it may be iced with 
advantage. 

When the stomach is inflamed, as we are taught by morbid 
anatomy to know it is in severe scarlatina, or when there is 
vomiting, only a few teaspoonfuls should be drunk at once, 
and everything cold and dilute. The admixture of pepsine, in 
quantity not exceeding 20 grains a day, is also beneficial to 
these patients. K it purges, it may be guarded with a few 
drops of laudanum. 

In obstinate vomiting and other instances where the 
ordinary paths of absorption refuse to fulfil their functions, it 
is necessary to get nutriment taken in by unusual routes. 
This is often the case at the height or later end of acute 
fevers, and then life may be sustained a long time by nutri- 
tive injections into the lower end of the bowel. Physiological 
experiments undertaken with the view of testing the power of 
absorption in these parts have demonstrated that many soluble 
drugs may be introduced into the blood through the mucous 
membranes. Opium, for instance, acts quickly when so given. 

' Lectures f chiefly Clinical, Lect. yI. of 4th ed. Xiondon, 1864. 



256 DIET IN SIC&NE6S. 

And if drugs, wLy not aliment ? Food thus administered in 
enema must be dilute, and it must be warm, and then very 
likely the still secreted intestinal juices which descend from 
above may dissolve a considerable amount of its starch and 
animal fibre. Yet, a surer way of securing the solution is to 
add a small quantity of pepsine to take the place of gastric 
juice, and also of diastase (in the shape of malt) to supply the 
deficiency of saliva. 

When life seems passing away under their eyes, the friends 
will often shrink from tormenting (as it seems to them) the 
sick man with food. Let them not despair ; many a one has 
recovered after the doctor has taken his leave with a sad shake 
of the head, and without making a fresh appointment. And 
let them also be stimulated by this fact — ^namely, that the pains 
of death are aggravated by, if not mainly caused by, the failure 
of nutrition. Even when apparently insensible, the dying 
suffer much increased distress from want of food, though they 
cannot expresp their sufferings. 

In respect of the use of alcohol in fevers, if any reader holds 
that it is morally wrong to give or take intoxicating drink 
under any circumstances, I must decline to argue with him. 
His notions about God's government of the universe are so 
different from mine, that we can have no common data to start 
from. I know of no material substance (except human flesh) 
which I would not administer, if it would contribute to save 
life and restore health, or if it would ease pain without 
risking the former objects. Or if he thinks that alcohol may 
be withheld by way of protest against its abuse, I can only look 
upon him as an erring enthusiast, who misunderstands the 
duty of a physician. I believe there are many diseases to the 
victims of which we are morally bound, not only to permit, but 
to enforce its use. These diseases are more notable from the 
multitudes attacked by them than they are by the number of 
their names. 

The use of alcohol in fevers is regulated partly by the tem- 
perature and partly by the condition of the nervous system. If 



ACUTE FEVEES. 257 

the heat of the blood, as taken at the axilla, is above 103° 
generally, and if above 105° always, there is a necessity for wine. 
And it should be continued till such time as the temperature is 
below 101° for twenty- four hours together. Again, if there is 
great prostration of strength, or tremulousness of the hands, or 
quivering in the voice and respiration, if there is delirium of a 
low muttering character when the patient is left quiet, then 
also it is required. Or if the patient is habituated to a full 
allowance, it is well to continue to give a little. A sharp, 
weak, unequal beat of the heart is a warning that some of 
these symptoms are likely soon to come on. All these 
indicate that the nervous system is feeling very sensitively 
the destructive metamorphosis going on, and has its power 
lowered by its sensitiveness. Then is the opportunity for 
the strong ansBsthetic we are speaking oi^ which I order with- 
out scruple, regulating the quantity and the frequency of the 
dose solely by its physiological eflFects, namely, diminution of 
temperature and steadiness of nerve force. 

But though I give it without scruple, I do not hold it as a 
specific, or even as part of the necessary cure of fever. Above 
all, the friends must be warned not to employ it as a sub- 
stitute for food : it may be useful as an adjunct, but can never 
take the place of true restoratives. 

The form of alcoholic liquor must depend a good deal upon 
the purses of those who pay for it. Sound port, burgundy, 
and champagne are the best, but I do not despise cheap gin 
when I can get nothing else. If the usual dietetic sources of 
alcohol cannot be trusted, as is often the case in low neighbour- 
hoods, spirits of wine may be used with advantage. 

It contributes greatly to the appetite of a sensitive person 
if the nurse is of fresh, clean, and cheerful aspect. Her dress 
should be of some washing material which does not rustle, of 
a soft warm colour, and not stuck out with crinoline or any 
sort of * dress improver.' Black is always nasty to the acute 
olfactory nerves of an invalid. Above all, she must have 
a quiet decided manner, and never fidget. 

S 



258 



DIET IN SICKNESS. 



Cookery for Fever Patients. 

White Wine Whey, 

(All Wheys are Sudorific and Nutritive). 

Put two pints of new milk in a saucepan and stir it over a 
clear fire till it is nearly boiling ; then add a gill of sherry, and 
simmer for a quarter of an honr, skimming off the cnrd as it 
rises. Then add a tablespoonfnl more sherry and skim again 
for a few minutes. 

The cnrd may be kept till cold, and then rubbed fine in a 
mortar and mixed again with the whey, if it is desired to 
make the drink more nutritions. 

Rennet Whey, 

To a quart of new milk, either warm from the covr, or 
heated up to the same temperature, add a large tablespoonfnl 
of rennet.^ Keep up the heat a little higher till the curd rises, 
and take it off with a spoon. 

In cases where all soHds are rejected by vomiting, ajid Tnillr 
only is ordered for diet, the caseine of the milk very often be- 
comes a bulky solid by immediate coagulation, and is thrown 
up as such. Yet the nutriment can be ill spared. In these 
cases the rubbing up of the curd iuto a fine paste (as advised 
in the last recipe) and mixing it in plain whey without wine, 
will make a food which may save a Hf e in great danger. 

Acidulated Edce Drink, 

1 oz. ground rice, two quarts water; boil and strain. 
Sweeten with barley-sugar, 1 oz. ; acidulate with 1 oz. lemon- 
juice (Children^ 8 Sosjpital), 



» See end of Chap. IL § 7, in First Part, p. 60. 



ACUTE FEVERS. 259 



The Invalid's Tea. 



Pour into a small china or earthenware teapot a cnp of 
quite boiling water, empty it out, and while it is stiU hot and 
steaming, put in the tea. Add enough boiling water to wet it 
thoroughly, and set it close to the fire to steam three or four 
minutes. Then pour in the quantity of water required boil- 
ing from the kettle, and it is ready for use. 

Lemonade, 

Pare a lemon very thin and put the paring in a jug with an 
ounce of sugar-candy. Squeeze the lemon into it, and pour on 
a pint of boiling water. Orange or pine-apple may be used in- 
stead of lemon as a variety. 

(Other aqueous drinks, good in both health and sickness, 
have been already mentioned at the end of Chapter II. § 10, in 
the First Part, p. 84). 

Lmseed Tea (Denmlcent and Diuretic), 

Whole linseed, one ounce ; 
White sugar, one ounce ; 
Liquorice root, half an ounce ; 
Lemon-juice, fourtablespoonfuls. 

Pour on the materials two pints of boiling water, let them 
stand in a hot place four hours, and then strain off the liquor. 
Do not give this to patients taking lead, iron, or copper. 

Barley Water. 

Wash two ounces of pearl barley with cold water. Then 
boil it for five minutes in some fresh water, and throw both 
waters away. Then pour on two quarts of boiling water, and 
boil it down to a quart. Flavour with thinly-cut lemon rind 
and barley-sugar to taste, but do not strain unless at the 
patient's special request. 

2s 



260 DIET IN SICKNESS. 



Water Qruel, 

Mix ODe large tablespoonfal of oatmeal into a smootli paste 
with a little cold water. Ponr in, mixing all the time, a pint 
of boiling water. Boil for ten minutes, stirring as before, and 
strain. It may be eaten with salt or sugar, according to 
taste. 

Another Qruel, 

Grits \ oz.; water f pint ; milk ^ pint ; sugar ^ oz. (^Ohil- 
dren's Hospital), 

Arrowroot, 

Mix one large tablespoonfnl of arrowroot into a smooth thin 
paste with a little cold water. Pour in a pint of boiling water, 
and flavour as required. 

In making * milk gruel ' and * milk arrowroot ' milk is sub- 
stituted for water. 

Rice Qruel — (somewhat astrmgent, in cases of diarrhoea). 

Take of, 

Ground rice, two ounces ; 

Cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce ; 
Water, four pints. 

Boil for forty minutes ; then add a tablespoon^ of orange 
marmalade. 

Bael Drmk — (In dn/sentery a/nd dia/rrhoea). 

The liquid extract of unripe Bael finit {Liquor BbUb)^ in 
the proportion of one or two tablespoonfuls to a pint of water. 

Ahim Whey — (In diarrhoea). 

Use alum in place of rennet to curdle the milk, in the pro- 
portion of about a quarter of an ounce to the first. Otherwise 
make it as rennet whey. 



ACUTE FEVERS. 261 



AVmand Drvrik — (jsofteni/ng and nutriiwe m chest cases). 

A useful and pleasant drink may be quickly prepared by 
rubbing up two ounces of tbe * Compound Powder of Almonds ' 
(to be got at any chemist's) with a pint of water. 

Olaret Oup for Iruoalids, 

Half a bottle of claret to a bottle of soda-water. Half a 
dozen drops of sweet spirits of nitre {spiritus cetheris nitrosi) 
put into the jng first gives a fruity flavour. 

JSgg Nogg of the British Pharmacopceia. 

Best French brandy, four ounces ; 
Cinnamon water, four ounces ; 
Yolk of two eggs ; 
Sugar, half an ounce. 

Put the sugar and egg yolk together, then add the rest. 

OleansiAig Wash for the Mouth "before Food, 

A tablespoonful of Condy's Solution or two tablespoonfals 
of the * liquor of permanganate of potash * of the British 
Pharmacopoeia, in a pint of lukewarm water. 

Ugg 8ovp» 

Water, one pint ; 

The yolk of two eggs ; 

Butter, a lump as large as a big walnnt ; 

Sugar, according to taste. 

Beat them np together over a slow fire, gradually adding 
the water. When it begins to boil, pour it backwards and 
forwards between the saucepan and jug till quite smooth and 
frothy. 



262 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Panado. 

Bread crumb, one ounce ; 
Mace, one blade ; 
Water, one pint. 

Boil, without stirring, till they mix and torn smooth, then 
add a grate of nutmeg, a small piece of butter, a tablespoonfiil 
of sherry, and sugar, according to taste. 

Whole Beef'tea. 

Make the cook understand that the virtue of beef-tea is to 
contain all the contents and flavour of lean beef in a liquid 
form ; and that its vices are to be sticky and strong*, and to set 
in a hard jelly when cold. 

When she understands this, let her take half a ponnd of 
fresh-killed beef for every pint of beef-tea required, and remove 
all fia.t, sinew, veins and bone. Let it be cut up into pieces 
under half an inch square, and soak for twelve honrs in one- 
third of the water. Let it then be taken out and simmered for 
two hours in the remaining two-thirds of the water, the quantity 
lost by evaporation being replaced fix)m time to time. The 
boiling liquor is then to be poured on the cold liquor in ^vhich 
the meat was soaked. The solid meat is to be dried, ponnded 
in a mortar, freed from all stringy parts, and mixed with the rest. 

When the beef-tea is made daily, it is convenient to nse 
one day's boiled meat for the next day's tea, as thus it has time 
to dry and is easier pounded. 

A wholesome flavouring for beef-tea is fresh tomato, now 
so commonly grown on a south wall in gardens. A piece of 
green celery stalk, or a small onion, and a few cloves, may 
also be boiled in it. Mushroom ketchup, which some cooks 
introduce, is of doubtful composition ; but a little Worcester 
sauce is a safe flavouring. 

Some further hints on the preparation of broths for the 
sick-room have already been given in Chapter 111. p. 92. 



ACUTE FEVEES. 263 

Quicker hut less economical Beef-tea, 

One pound of raw beef, minced, for each pint of water. 
Stir up cold and let it stand one hour. Then place the vessel 
in which they are mixed in a pan of water and heat them up 
to about 180° Fahr. for another hour over a slow fire. If 
boiled up to 212° the tea becomes gluey, and is not equally 
nutritious or digestible. Eun it through a coarse strainer, 
skim with a piece of bread, and flavour at discretion. 

Beef amd Hen Broth, — (Gouff6). 

Still quicker made, but still less economical, is the follow- 
ing:— 

Take lib. of lean beef ; 
Half a hen, boned. 

Pound together in a mortar ; add ^ oz. of salt ; put in a 
stewpan with 2^ pints of water ; and stir over the fire till 
boiling ; then add carrots, onions, leeks and celery, cut fine ; 
boil for half an hour ; strain, and serve. 

A few further remarks on beef -tea are made in the Chapter 
on Cookery. 

Chicken Broth, 

Skin, and chop up small, a small chicken, or half a large 
fowl, and boil it, bones and all,^ with a blade of mace, a sprig 
of parsley, and a crust of bread, in a quart of water for an 
hour, skimming it from time to time. Strain through a coarse 
cullender. 

Chicken broth, poured on sippets laid on the bottom of the 
dish, makes a good sauce for boiled chicken or partridge, when 
the invalid is well enough to be allowed solid food. 

^ Some people add the feet, which contribute a peculiar, and not always 
acceptable, flavour. And those to whom expense is an object may make a 
very good broth of heads, ends of pinions, and feet alone, which can be 
obtained cheaply from a poulterer. 



264 DIET IN SICKNESS. 



Mutton Broth. ' 

Lean loin of mutton, ono pound, exclusive of bone ; 
Water, three pints. 

Boil gentlj till very tender, throwing in a little salt and 
onion, according to taste. Pour out the broth into a basin, 
and when it is cold skim off all the fat. It can be warmed up 
as wanted. 

If barley or rice are added, as is desirable during convales- 
cence, they must be boiled first separately, till quite soft, and 
added when the broth is heated for use. 

Eel Broth. 

Skin, clean, and chop up into pieces an inch long, half a 
dozen small eels. Boil them in a pint and a half of v^ater, 
skim, and then cover over and stew for forty minutes. This 
makes a capital stock for a souchee of flounders, sole, or perch, 
and a very good change for convalescents from fevers. The 
object is to avoid giving butter sauce, which is apt to turn 
rancid. 

Boiled Pigeon or Partridge. 

Clean and season the bird, enclose it in a puff paste and 
boil. Serve in its own gravy, supplemented by the liver 
rubbed up with some stock, and do not forget the bread 
sauce. 

Bread Sauce. 

The crumb of a French roll ; 

Water, half a pint ; 

Black pepper, six to eight corns ; 

A small piece of onion and salt to taste. 

Boil till smooth ; then add a piece of butter about as big 
as a walnut, and mix for use. It is good hot with hot birds, 
cold withi cold birds, and is an excellent food for the sick. 



ACUTE FEVEES. 265 

Nutrient Enema, 
(In cases where the stomach rejects food) » 

Take of beef-tea half a pint, and thicken it with a tea- 
spoonfed of tapioca. Reduce If oz. of raw beef to a fine 
pnlp, pass it through a fine cullender, and mix the whole up 
with 20 grains of acid pepsine (Boudault's jpoudre digestive) 
and 4 grains of diastase, or a dessert- spoonfnl of malt flour. ^ 
(Fonssagrives. ) ^ 

It should have a bright rose tint, and exhale a rich meaty 
odour. Not more than a quarter of a pint at once should be 
used, and that slowly. Thus, frequent repetition is facili- 
tated. 

Pending the arrival of the pepsine and malt, the other por- 
tion of the liquid may be administered alone. 

Malt Tea, 
(Nutrient m cases where the mouth is too d/ry). 
Boil three ounces of malt in a quart of water. 

Biscuit and Milk, 

Soak for about eight hours, till it is quite pultaceous, a 
hard captain's biscuit in milk or in water. Pour off what it 
has not absorbed, and mix it up in a pint of new milk. 

Bread Pvddmg, 

Pour over a French roll haK a pint of boiling milk, cover 
it close, and let it stand till it has soaked up the milk. Tie it 
up lightly in a cloth, and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. 
Turn it out on a plate, and sprinkle a little sugar-candy over 
it. The addition of burnt sugar or tincture of saffron will give 
it the established yellow colour. 

* Where malt flour is used, the tapioca may be omitted. 
» Journal de Med, et de Chir, Prat,, 1862. 



266 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Edce Pvdding. 

Boil two onnces of rice in a pint of milk, assidnonsly stir- 
ring till it thickens. Take it off and let it cool. Then mix in 
well two ounces of hutter, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, and 
sugar in moderation, according to taste. Pour it into a but- 
tered dish and bake. 

Bice pudding is better for being twice cooked. The 
second day take off the brown skin, add some more milk, and 
bake it again. And you may do it the third time without dis- 
advantage. 

Batter Pudding. 

Flour, three teaspoonfuls ; 
Milk, one pint ; 
Salt, a pinch; 

Of powdered ginger, nutmeg, and tincture of saflRron, each 
a teaspoonful. Boil. 

The point in the three last recipes is the avoidance of eggs, 
which when baked or even when boiled so long as it is necessary 
to boil puddings, are quite insoluble in a weak stomach. If, 
however, they are dressed separately, and either kept raw or 
lightly heated they may be made into a custardy sauce, which 
is quite digestible in small quantities. To this a Httle wine 
may be added as a flavouring. 

The Invalid^ 8 Mashed Potato, 

Boil one pound of potatoes with their jackets on till they 
are mealy. Peel them, and rub them through a wire sieve ; 
when cool, add a small teacupful of fresh cream and a little 
salt, beating the mash up lightly as you go on, till it is quite 
smooth, and then warming it up gently for use. 



267 



CHAPTEE II. 

DIET OP CBRTAIN OTHBR INFLAMMATORY STATES. 

Inflammation arising from the congestion of any part of the 
body, whether in immediate consequence of injury, cold, heat, 
or other external accident, or from some previous disease or 
lesion, gets well soonest and safest when the blood is kept in 
as normal a condition as possible. The healthier the blood is 
and the more freely it circulates, the less are the throbbing, 
the swelling, the heat, the formation of mucus, pus, or fibrin, 
and the risk of ulceration or gaugrene. Bruises, wounds, sores, 
and the necessary gaps made by the surgeon's knife, all heal 
the readier for the blood being red and fluid. 

Now starvation has precisely the opposite effect to that 
desired : it augments the proportion naturally borne by the 
fibrin to the red globules ; it makes the circulating fluid more 
readily coagulable, more adhesive, and consequently more prone 
to stick to the sides of the minute vessels through which it 
ought to flow, more liable to block them up, and thus to favour 
their throbbing, swelHng, and sometimes rupture. Also, by 
letting effete material remain to form the bulk of the blood, 
it renders that fluid unfit to generate new tissue ; while pus, 
mucus, <fec. grow instead. Pus is, in fact, imperfect flesh 
strangled in its conception, plasm which has lost its plas- 
ticity. 

Our object then should be to keep the blood in the highest 
health, by giving it all the nutriment it is capable of duly 
assimilating. The arguments used regarding general fevers 



268 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

apply more forcibly here, in that the whole body not being so 
universally smitten with disease, the stomach (as yre are often 
told by the appetite) retains much of its assimilative power, 
and is more likely to make a good use of what is ^ven it than 
in the former case. 

When the desire for food is genuine and keen, there is no 
objection to the continuance of the ordinary allo^rance of 
animal and vegetable diet at the usual times. But care must 
be taken to notice that the appetite is real, and not a wish 
dependent on whim, habit, or the aim at appearing less ill than 
people suppose. 

The above rule, however, does not apply to stimulants. 
Beer, wine, or spirits, if allowed at all as a food or with food, 
must be restricted to smaller quantities than are taken in 
health. The patient's nutrition goes on better withont them 
altogether, unless the state of the nervous system, as in fevers 
should require the adventitious aid. (See last chapter.) 

When loss of appetite indicates that the powers of the 
stomach are in partial abeyance, then the nutrient administered 
should be liquid, easily convertible into chyle, and in frequent 
small doses, for the reasons before detailed. 

After surgical operations, and in many other cases w^here 
there is a tendency to a copious formation of pus, health is 
promoted by the use of fresh green vegetables and of lemonade, 
and of digestible fruits, such as recently gathered grapes, 
currants, blackberries, barberries, or whortle-berries. Oranges 
and pomegranates are cooling to the mouth, and occupy 
agreeably many a dull minute in the eating. They are all 
wholesomer before food than after. 

Allusion has been made to the use of alcohol as a protec- 
tion, in cases of traumatic injury and mental exhaustion, 
against the pernicious over-activity of the nervous system. 
And it is possible, too, that it may oppose the entrance of 
morbid and other poisons by retarding absorption, as is indi- 
cated in its popular reputation as a preservative against malaria 
and nozipus ^mes. But if it has failed in its mission, if the 



INFLAMMATION. 269 

wound, or the worry, or the virus have proved too strong for 
their force to be broken by an artificial buflFer, then there 
seems to be a serious doubt whether the patient is, or is not, 
worse off for having taken it. Just as after an operation under 
aneesthetics there may in some cases be a similar doubt. But 
an habitual tippler, as distinguished from an occasional ex- 
ceeder, is certainly in more danger from disease than a tem- 
perate man under the same circumstances. The venerable Dr. 
Christison, in a letter dated 1870, writes : — ' How can we ever 
hope to express numerically the influence of drunkenness 
(habitual) in aggravating the mortality from fevers, cholera, 
dysentery, and other zymotics ? . . . . Let me conclude with 
one illustrative fact. I have had a fearful amount of ex- 
perience of continued fever in our infirmary during many an 
epidemic, and in all my experience I have only once known an 
intemperate man of. forty or upwards recover. He was the 
excejptio quce jprohat regulam.^^ 

Hitherto common, or non-specific, inflammation has been 
spoken of. When the inflammation has a specific character, 
a new element is introduced into the treatment, and the 
general rules above alluded to do not apply. 

In Acute Rheumatic Fevee experience demonstrates that 
a nutrient analeptic diet retards recovery, and will even bring 
on a relapse during convalescence. It is a painful thing to 
restrain a patient from wholesome food when he craves for it, 
but in this instance it is our duty. If meat in any form, solid 
or liquid, be eaten, it seems to turn into lactic acid, which 
many think is already in excess in the rheumatic blood — at all 
events, it adds to the quantity of organic acids in the body. 
The power of ftdly converting it into living flesh is wanting, 
and until this power is regained a semi-conversion into the 
substance named takes place. The smell of sour TnilV in the 
skin of rheumatic fever patients is well known, and seems to 

* Second Annual Report of the State Board qf Health of Maeaachuaettat 
January, 1871, p. 339. 



270 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

support the theory allnded to. Meat augments it, and adds 
also to the acidity of the urine. The rodder and more muscnkr 
the meat is, tlie more it disagrees. 

Vegt»tablc food does Dot turn so copiously or so quickly add ; 
so that water prruol of oatmeal, grits or rice, soap maigre, jellies, 
spiced rice, plain boiled rice, panado, and other varions prepa- 
rations of bread, mashed potatoes, porridge, arrowroot and 
semolina pudding, Oswego com, and the like, must be used to 
satisfy the moutlis which often loudly complain of starvatioxL 
The canes wliicli prosiKjr are those where the appetite is keen, but 
has been denied any food beyond what is absolutely necessary 
to barely sustain life. The aqueous drinks shonld be 
alkaline. 

Even when the pains are gone and natore eaJls for the 
replacement of the lost flesh, the diet whicli promises most 
readily to replace it will sometimes bring on a relapse and 
you must very cautiously go back to * ordinary diet,* else 
you run a risk of eventually losing time by over-much haste. 

But it cannot be said of acute rheumatism as of other 
cyclical fevers that the diet is the most important part of the 
treatment. The action of variations of temperature, especially 
in the direction of cold, is so extremely injurious in prolonging 
the disease, increasing its painfolness, and endangering life 
by causing pericarditis, that indubitably a paramount value 
attaches to a scrupulous protection of the body against such 
changes. Freshness of air, so valuable in typhus and its allied 
states, is in this case a minor, very minor, consideration com- 
pared with its steady warmth. You must be careful even 
when making your daily stethoscopic examination not to expose 
the chest to chill. A careless and dangerous doctor may 
always be known by his neglect of precaution in these cases. 
Chilling the skin of a rheumatic fever patient not only turns 
the rheumatic inflammation into fibrinous inflammation (as in 
pericarditis), but it also still further deteriorates the process of 
nutrition. After a chill you will see the urine become turbid 
from the deposit of lithates, the effete products of a deranged 



INFLAMMATION. 271 

assimilation. Dieting tlie sick is useless unless appropriate 
means are adopted for securing the digestion of the diet. And 
the most essential means in rheumatic fever is attention to the 
temperature.^ 

Rheumatic fever sometimes, though rarely, assumes with 
singular rapidity a change which involves a complete reversal 
of the treatment. The patient becomes strongly delirious, and 
the temperature mounts to a higher degree even than in typhus ^ 
The high temperature is a source of much danger, and has 
been treated with great promise of success by cold baths. It 
is difficult to imagine a bolder piece of practice, hut m this case^ 
where the temperature is dangerously Jngh, it has certainly 
warded off death, and entailed no bad results to pay for its 
good. Pardon me this digression — it is to serve as an intro- 
duction of a few words respecting a dietetic expedient which I 
think may be an assistant to the more direct and powerfal cold 
bath, namely, the administration of large and frequent doses 
of alcohol. It has been already remarked how it reduces 
temperature in health, and also in the typhus state, and this 
the hyperpyrexia in rheumatic fever appears especially to 
demand. One case I had under my care many years ago of a 
young organist, who had delirium (without pericarditis) and 
hyperpyrexia in rheumatic fever, before the use of the cold 
bath in such cases had been thought of in England. He was 
treated with brandy every hour, and made a good recovery. 
The heart never became affected, for he spoke to me some 
years afterwards at a church-door and said he had been quite 
well ever since his attack. 

The treatment of chronic gout and the gouty diathesis re- 
quires consideration in a separate chapter. Here we are con- 
cerned only with the acute paroxysm of redness, swelling, and 
pain, the Inflammation of Gout. It is rendered more tolerable, 
less likely to be followed by disorganisation of tissue, and less 

> I have enlarged more fully on this important subject in Lectures 
chiefly Clinical, lectures xi., zii., and xiii., 4th ed. 



272 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

likely to become chronic, if it is treated by restricted diet and 
even temperature as ordinary rheumatic fever is treated. But 
ofbencr than in that disease we have cases whicli we must 
make exceptional ; for where the general health has been 
weakened by previous attacks, the severe discipline cannot be 
borne. Fortunately it is not so imperative, since gout leads 
not to the same immediate dangers as rheumatic fever. 

Soup Maigre, 

Take of butter, half a pound. Put it in a deep stewpan, 
place it on a gentle fire till it melts, shake it about, and let it 
stand till it has done making a noise ; have ready six medium- 
sized onions peeled and cut small, throw them in and shake 
them about. Take a bunch of celery, cut it in pieces about an 
inch long, a large handful of spinach cut small, and a little 
bundle of parsley chopped fine ; sprinkle these into the pan, 
and shake them about for a quarter of an hour ; then sprinkle 
in a little flour and stir it up. Pour into the pan two quarts 
of boiling water, and add a handful of dry bread-crust broken 
in pieces, a teaspoonful of pepper, and three blades of mace 
beaten fine ; boil gently another half hour. Then beat up the 
yolks of two eggs with a teaspoonful of vinegar and stir them 
in, and the soup is ready. 

The order in which the ingredients are added is very im- 
portant. 

Bread Soup. 

Take the crust of a stale roll, cut it in pieces, and boil it 
well in a pint of water with a piece of butter as big as a wal- 
nut, sturiug and beating them till the bread is mixed. Season 
with celery-salt. 

Alkaline Drink, 

Cut the rind of a lemon very thin, and put it in a jug with 
a tablespoonful of x)Owdered sugar-candy. Pour on it a 



INFLAMMATION. 273 

little boiling water, and when it is dissolved, half a pint of 
Vichy water, and half a pint of common water. 

V 

The White Drink (Decoction Blcmche), 

Burnt hartshorn, powdered, two ounces ; 
Gum arable, an ounce and a half ; 
Water, three pints. 

Boil down to a pint, strain, and add sugar. 

Isinglass Jelly, 

Boil an ounce of isinglass and a dozen cloves (if liked) 
in a quart of water down to a pint. Strain hot through a flan- 
nel bag on to two ounces of sugar-candy, and flavour with a 
little angelica root, or two or three tablespoonfuls of Liqueur de 
la Grande Chartreuse, if cloves are not relished. 

Hartshorn Jelly, 

Boil half a pound of hartshorn shavings (ndt * raspings,' 
which are adulterated with bone dust), or an equal weight of 
ivory turnings, in three pints of water down to a pint, strain, 
and add three ounces of white sugar-candy and an ounce of 
lemon-juice. Heat again up to the boiling point. As a 
variety in flavouring white Capri, Moselle, or champagne may 
be used in quantity not exceeding two tablespoonfuls. 

The gelatine derived from these sources claims no advan- 
tages over that obtained, as directed in cookery books, from 
calves' feet. But it is more soluble and digestible than if made 
from the ordinary * gelatine ' of the shops, which is manufac- 
tured from old bones, probably after maceration in acid. There 
is something gained by using for invalids dishes differing in 
name and substance from those usually set before the robust, as 
it is thus easier to secure their being made properly, and not 
according to the traditions of the kitchen. A cook whose 

T 



274 DI£T IN SICKNESS. 

* calves* feet jelly * has been commended, will demur to receive 
a recipe for its ingredients from the doctor, but will allow him 
to be in his legitimate province when he orders hartshorn or 
isinglass — they are, or were kitely, in the PharmacopoBia. 

Bread Fvdding (with e^^). 

Take of crumbs of bread, 2 onnces ; 
New milk, ^ of a pint, boiling hot. 

Pour the hot milk on the bread, and let it stand about an 
hour covered up ; then add the yolk of an egg, well beaten ; 
then a teaspoonful of rose or orange flower water, a little nut- 
meg, and half an ounce of sugar. (Instead of sugar, some 
prefer salt). Beat all up together. Tie up and boil, or steam 
or bake, three-quarters of an hour. 

Bread Pudding (without egg). 

Pour half a pint of boiling milk over a Prench. roll and 
let it stand, covered up, till it has soaked up the milk. Tie 
lightly in a cloth, and boil twenty minutes. 

Mutton Broth. 

J lb. of neck of mutton, free from fat, 1 oz. of carrots, 
1 02. of turnips, ^ o!z. of onions, ^ oz. of barley. Boil first 
the barley in ^ pint of water, for half an hour, and throw that 
water away ; then put the boiled barley and the meat in li 
pint of water ; boil and skim for a quarter of au hour ; then add 
the vegetables, and boil till the meat is tender. To make li 
pint of broth. 

l^e Tea. 

Take of red rosebuds (the white heels being taken off), 

half an ounce ; 
White wine vinegar, three tablespoonfuls ; 
White sugar-candy, one ounce. 



INFLAMMATION. 275 

Put them in two pints of boiling water and let them stand 
near a fire for two honrs, then strain. 

Similar acid drinks may be made of apple jelly, guava jelly, 
damson cheese, or syrnp of gooseberries, barberries, &c., and 
a variety is always agreeable. 

Sage Tea. 

Take of leaves of green sage, plucked from the 
stalks and washed clean, half an ounce ; 

Sugar, one ounce ; 

Outer rind of lemon-peel, finely pared from the white, 
quarter of an ounce. 

Put them in two pints of boiling water, let them stand near 
the fire half an hour, then strain. 

When the sage is dried, it must be used in rather less quan- 
tity than above mentioned. 

In the same manner teas may be made of rosemary, balm, 
southern- wood, &c., and are convenient to prevent a thirsty 
patient taking too much tea and coffee when not good for him. 
The use of acid is also avoided. 

Oatmeal Tea. 

Take of oatmeal a handful ; 

Boiling water a gallon. 
Mix in a deep vessel. Let the oatmeal subside, which it 
does in half an hour, and pour off the tea. By this process hard 
water is made digestible. 

The main difference between these recipes and those given 
at the close of the last chapter is, that nutrition is not made 
an object. When it is desired, the same means are available 
as in lower fevers. 



T 2 



277 



CHAPTER in. 

THE DIET AND REGIMEN OP WEAK DIGESTION. 

Chronic deficiency of power in the stomach, atonic dyspepsia, 
is evidenced by a sense of nneasy distention in the front of the 
waist, coming on an hour or so after food, and often lasting 
till it is temporarily relieved by the next meal or by sleep. 
There is no sharp pain on pressure, indeed gentle rubbing 
seems to give relief. The sensation hardly ever amounts to 
pain, except in highly nervous or hysterical persons, or where 
a great formation of air gives rise to colicky spasms. Portions 
of undigested food are apt to regurgitate, and are rancid with 
butyric acid. This occurs at a later period after food than the 
more familiar * acidity,' or sensitiveness to the normal acidity 
of the stomach which is found in nervous hyperaesthetic 
persons. 

Constipation, or what is called * sluggish liver,' is often a 
symptom which attracts the notice of a patient and brings him 
to a physician. And most cases have been already much 
aggravated by the attempt to obviate the inconvenience with 
the aid of purgative drugs. The constipation really arises 
from the extension of the want of tone in the stomach to the 
secretions and propulsive movements of the intestines, and 
the habitual indulgence in opening medicine increases this. 
From want of tone, also, the ilia and colon dilate, and are 
blown up with retained air. And the dilatation causes pain, 
especially in the waist and under the shoulder blades. 

If regular, the evacuations are pale, scanty, and unformed. 
Should any excess in eating nitrogenous food be committed, 



278 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

thcrt* is HomctiiuoH a temporary diarrhoea and fetor in wbat 
comes fn)ni tlie U>\velrt. Sometimes the looseneas is ahnost 
conHtant. 

Til is cnnilitioii of the digestive canal is well demonstralied 
hy thr asj)i«<»t of 1lie tongno, the lips, and the gums. They 
an» I'lilc, niid retain the impress of anything pressed upon 
them, and easily bleed. So that the tongue bears marks of 
the ttH'th along its e<ljre,and the efforts of swallowing elongate 
the nvnla. ^ometimes streaks of blood which have exuded 
are hawked up, and the tickling of the glottis by the lax 
pendant uvula causes a cough, and the patient is alarmed bv 
the fear of pulmonary consumption. 

Palpitation of the heart, and sometimes intermission of 
the pulse, are noticed, especially where the flatulence is (?reat 
The pulsation is rapid on excitement, but is soft and slow 
during repose. 

The urine as a rule is pale and watery, with a low specific 
gravity, indicating thus, by the deficiency of nrea, an imperfect 
nutrition. The phosphates are also deficient, but still form a 
cloud when the fluid is subjected to heat, showing its abnor- 
mal deficiency of acid. Care must be taken that these cha- 
racteristics of the renal secretion do not arouse a fallacious 
fear of Bright 's disease in the kidney. 

The intellectual faculties do not appear to be impaired, 
but there is a heaviness and disinclination for exertion which 
induces the patient to say they are, as an excuse for his slug- 
gishness. If sleep be indulged in during the day, it is unre- 
freshing, and oft^n leaves headache and weariness behind it. 

In the case of atonic dyspepsia, I have departed from the 
general plan of this little volume in giving details of the 
symptoms of the disease, because these symptoms have each 
a decided bearing on the dietetic treatment. The first-named 
group of sensations appear to depend on the quantity which 
is taken at once, and are much less perceived when small and 
frequent meals are made the rule. These moderate meals 
daring the day should be reinforced by a light supper on going 



WEAK DIGESTION. 279 

to bed. And the period of waiting before breakfast may be 
made less exhausting by a cup of milk with a teaspoonful of 
rum in it. 

Fluids should be drunk in moderation, and never at the 
commencement of the meal. For over-dilution weakens the 
gastric juice, which is scanty at first ; but when it is poured 
out more copiously, fluids assist the onward motion of the 
chyme through the pylorus, and obviate that delay which gives 
rise to the feeling of uneasiness. 

The nature of the food is of less importance than its quan- 
tity ; but still it has an influence. Rich, greasy sauces are 
especially to be avoided ; for, meeting in the stomach with 
the acidifying remnants of the former meal, they rapidly un- 
dergo the butyric fermentation and turn rancid. No acid is so 
disagreeable to the stomach and oesophagus as the butyric ; 
and therefore, when this forms, relief is often experienced on 
stopping that form of fermentation by another acid. A few 
drops of diluted phosphoric or muriatic acid, a teaspoonful of 
lemon-juice, or even a piece of sour apple, or a little Chili 
vinegar, often palliate the distress. But the wisest course is 
to avoid the cause. 

The bill of fare should be varied from day to day, but as 
simple as possible at each meal. Considerable comfort is often 
gained by dividing the animal from the vegetable food, taking 
one at one meal and the other at another. Vegetable food is 
much less likely to cause flatulence if taken alone. 

Vegetables should not be omitted from the dietary, or the 
future health will suffer. But such should be selected as cause 
least inconvenience, and the mode of dressing them adjusted and 
experimented upon till the patient finds how much and how 
many suit his peculiarities. Spinach can almost always be 
borne, either chopped up, or served as cabbage, or in soup. 
And so generally can tomatoes, squashes, vegetable marrows. 
Elector's caps, salsifis, scorzonera, beetroot and French beans. 
Peas must be very young and soft. Potatoes must be old, and 



280 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

cooked according to the recipe in the last chapter bnt one. 
Of cauliflower only the friable white flower is fit for eating. 

Raw fruit should never be eaten at the end of a meal. 
But roast apples, if taken with a little cream and hardly any 
sugar, are digestible enough. .Between meals, or as a separate 
meal, a bunch of grapes, a few strawberries, currants, or 
raspberries with a crust of bread, aid rather than impede 
digestion. 

All bread should be stale or toasted. The best is that 
which is closest grained and most friable. If the teeth are 
suflBciently sound, crust is preferable to crumb. Biscuits 
should be made with water, and not sweet. Of other farina- 
ceous food it may be remarked that almost all depends on the 
cooking. Pastry, from its mechanical texture, is very slow of 
solution, and should be cut out of the bill of fare altogether ; 
but the same flour made into bread pudding can generally be 
tolerated without inconvenience. Semolin'a, tapioca, and 
arrowroot are a safe variety. 

Cheese after dinner always disagrees. But it is nutritious, 
and is often missed much by the patient. If so, let him try it 
toasted as a separate meal. It should be quite new, cut into 
thin slices buttered and basted while toasting with a little cream. 
Let it be brought up on a hot- water plate, and not allov^ed to 
become hard and tough. 

Meat should be eaten twice a day. It ought not to be 
cooked a second time. A table of precedence in comparative 
digestibility is given in a former part of this volume,^ which, 
as far as the butcher's meat aud game is concerned, is appli- 
cable to the selection of food in atonic dyspepsia. If anyone 
can extend his acquaintance as far as ' Boast Beef,' he may con- 
sider that he is not an atonic dyspeptic. 

The wholesomest fish for weak digestions are boiled 
flounders, whiting, haddock, sole, plaice, brill, perch, among 
which a free choice may be made. Cod must be taken vdth 
more caution. It, however, bears cooking by dry heat better 

> Pa^e 123. 



WEAK DIGESTION. 281 

I 

than the afore-named, and if well done in outlets suits deli- 
cate stomachs often better than the others. Rich and oily- 
fleshed fishes, such as eels, herrings, pilchards, sprats, salmon, 
mullet, and those of very firm texture, such as turbot, tunny, 
pike, had best not be attempted by invalids at all. The condi- 
ment should be a squeeze of lemon or Duke of York's pepper 
sauce. 

It must be observed that so powerful is the influence of the 
mmd over the body that nothing is more common than for 
persons to exhibit wonderful idiosyncrasies respecting their 
capability of digesting peculiar articles of food. Those who 
have a strong will seem able by perseverance to use themselves 
to assimilate almost anything assimilable. The gratification of 
desire puts the nervous system into a state most favourable to 
the secretion of gastric juice, and the thwarting of a prejudice, 
however whimsical, upsets temper and stomach at the same 
time. 

Some dyspeptics get into a bad hftbit of erasing from their 
future bill of fare everything that has once seemed to 'be fol- 
lowed by inconvenience. The result is an unwholesome mono- 
tony of wrongly-selected victuals, and a despairing resignation 
to a needless abstinence. Let them, on the other hand, take 
the more hopeful course of addmg to their dietary everything 
that they have once found to agree, and they will have a choice 
nearly as extensive as their robust brethren could wish. If 
one cook cannot make a coveted article digestible, let them try 
another. 

Sugar at the latter end of meals certainly generates an excess 
of organic acids, and is to be avoided. But yet, in modera- 
tion, it promotes (as observed by Blondlot) the flow of gastric 
juice ; so that the custom adopted by Oriental nations ^ of 
taking a few bonbons and sweeties is in accordance with 
reason, and might prudently be experimented on in this coun- 
try. An excellent dietetic fillip to the appetite is a couple of 

^ See EaTvlinson's Dotes to Herodotus^ b. i. 



-282 DIRT IN SICKNfiSS. 

IM'psino lo7.«<ii£ro*(, or tho luune quantity made into pills with 
Htipir. 

A pMHl drink at nioals in atonic dyspepsia is bran-tea, caie 
Ihmd;^ tiikni that the bran is fresh, containing a fair proportion 
<»r rcin'aliii adhcrinfi^ to it, and that it is not boiled. It is better 
witlmut sii^rar or licinorice, which our forefathers used to pnt 
in it. 

Cold wjit<T ninst Ix) taken in great moderation by delicate 
persons. Tlie n^liiction of temperature certainly arrests 
yMMTftinn, us may Ixj found by chewing ice, and thouirh in 
robust stomachs there is a rapid glow of reaction and a conse- 
(juent feeling of hifn-atse, this is wanting to the weaker 
brethren we aiv now considering. Sapping tepid water, 
though not pleasant, is digestive. 

Fermented liquors are apt to cause a congestive flushing of 
the bniin, face, and neck, and a throbbing of the arteries. This 
may be viewed as an external evidence of what is goinir on nn- 
felt in the abdomen. If these symptoms are prominent a state 
of things is indicated not at all favourable to digestion and we 
may be sure that alcoholic stimulants, in the quantity taken are 
injurious. But that does not prove that in less quantity or 
more dilute, tliey may not be beneficial. There is a quantity 
capable of being arrived at in each separate case by experi- 
ment, 2)ar la voie d' exclusion^ which just succeeds in stimu- 
lating the appetite without flushing the face. "Veiy small 
indeed, that quantity is sometimes; yet it is an actual 
measurable quantity, not * infinitesimal.* It has a genuine 
physiological effect, to be accounted for by its observed action 
on the nervous system, and missed when it is not taken. I 
have known, for instance, the small sip of wine drunk at the 
sacrament of the Lord's Supper to make a decided differ- 
ence for good in the digestion of an immediately following 
meal. 

If a patient has the common sense to regulate himself accord- 
ing to the forementioned guide, there is not much need for 
interfering with the nature of the vintage he patronizes. Port, 



WEAK DIGESTION. 283 

Burgundy, and dry sherry agree if limited to tablespoonfnls. 
But if he persists in neglecting the warning, then we should 
persuade him to take claret, hock, or Capri. Not that these 
are really better for him, but they are more dilute. Beer, sweet 
champagne, and sparkling wines, in general, almost always give 
rise to fermentation. Some persons find it suits them not to 
have any alcoholic drink during the day, but to take a glass of 
hot whisky toddy on retiring to rest. 

Tea is most refreshing to the dyspeptic if made in the Rus- 
sian fashion, with a slice of lemon on which a little sugar-candy 
has been sprinkled, instead of milk or cream. One small cup 
of an evening is enough, and at breakfast its place is well 
taken by cocoa made from the nibs. 

Constipation is effectually obviated by the habitual employ- 
ment of green vegetables, porridge, brown bread, charcoal, and 
a few other articles of diet containing a good deal of unirrita- 
tive matter which yet is not dissolved by the solvents. Olive 
oil and mustard also assist in effecting the same object. But 
it is better to allow the continuance of constipation than to 
administer purgatives, and it is wise from the first to try and 
disabuse your patients of the fallacy that the bowels not open 
every twenty-fours are in mischief. 

Where there is a looseness, from the food passing away 
undigested, a few drops of laudanum at night will often give 
it a chance of solution by detaining it in the bowels. 

* Stomach cough 'and * stomach sore throat,' described at 
the beginning of the chapter, are best treated by not sitting 
down to breakfast without having gargled the throat with 
alum-water, or sprinkled the back of the fauces with dilute 
hydrosulphurous acid. If the mouth is foul and the breath 
heavy of a morning, a cleansing with a weak wash of Condy's 
Solution is also a good preliminary to eating. 

Palpitation of the heart and of the abdominal aorta are 
almost always made worse by special remedies directed to them, 
because the thoughts are thereby induced to concentrate them- 
selves on the suffering organs. They do not lead to any 



284 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

organic affection, and are nseful as an index to the improve- 
ment or decline of the patient. 

A low specific gravity of the urine is an indication for the 
use of tonic medicines. An abnormally high specific gravity 
shows that more vegetables should be eaten. 

When the medical attendant thinks fit in a case of atonic 
dyspepsia to order quinine and strychnine, alone or in. combi- 
nation, or iodide of potassium, care should be exercised not to 
eat within an hour before or after, as the mixing of the drug 
with food in the stomach diminishes the efficiency of both. 
But rhubarb or aloes, in the exceptional cases where they are 
advisable, may be used with advantage along with the meaJ ; 
while pepsine is beneficial only in that combination, and iron 
should be taken by itself after food. It is right, however, to 
say iron rarely suits well for long together. Cod-liver oil, a 
good dietetic tonic in some instances of this form of disease, 
agrees best the last thing at night, and made up with a little 
soda and milk. Daring the day it is apt to turn rancid, and 
return unpleasantly. Axomatics (such as teas or infusions of 
cloves, cinnamon, horse-radish, canella, and calumba) as also 
bitters (such as quassia, hops, and wormwood), are nseful 
only just before meals. I have seldom found mere bitters do 
good. 

The employment of alkaline mineral waters containing 
soda, especially Apollinaris aud dilute Vichy water, is some- 
times a great comfort. The only way in which we can explain 
this is that alkalies, as observed by Corvisart, by a sort of 
antagonism augment the secretion of gastric juice. They 
should be drunk, then, at the commencement of the meal, and 
not afterwards, when they would neutralize what is already 
secreted. 

Mineral acids, the most digestible of which is the phos- 
phoric, are best on a full stomach. 

As respects the general regimen, it should be of a bracing 
character. As much time as possible should be spent in the 
open air, but exercise should not be carried to the point of 



WEAK . DiaESTION. 285 

pTOduciiig over-fatigue. Riding in company, especially the 
company of ladies, is perfection ; but bowls, archery, croquet, 
and lavm-tennis are not to be despised as wholesome amuse- 
ments. Along with moderate exercise, sound rest, especially 
at night, in a quiet bed, should be secured ; but coddling in 
hot rooms, sleeping by day, and giving way to slight feelings 
of discomfort, or the avoidance of society under pretence of 
fearing fatigue, must be discouraged. 

An excellent device for invigorating the circulation, 
especially for women, is to take the morning bath by sitting in 
warm water and having a bucket of cold water poured down 
the spine from the nape of the neck, and then being rubbed dry 
immediately with a rough-dried towel. 

The quality of the water used by atonic dyspeptics is a 
matter of serious consideration. Hard chalky water produces 
flatulence, and frequently a grinding neuralgic pain in the 
epigastrium, so long as its use is persisted in : and the brighter 
and more sparkling it is, the worse it seems to agree. Chaly- 
beate waters, as a daily drink, though the taste of iron be 
very slight in them, in a few months produce a peculiar debility 
and anaemia ; even though at flrst, and when taken as a medi- 
cine for a short course, they had exhibited quite an opposite, 
efiect. 

The best places of residence are high, dry, and bracing. 
The air of the Surrey and Sussex Downs, or such a combina- 
tion of heather, fir- woods, and a sandy soil, as is to be found 
on Ascot Heath, seem the best specimens one can quote. It 
may be added that the last named enjoys the advantage of a 
chalybeate spring, a short course of which will benefit those 
cases where atonic dyspepsia has induced scantiness of the 
evacuations peculiar to women or strongly marked ansdmia. 
It agrees better than other forms of steel : which, as previously 
noticed, is seldom well tolerated in pure atonic dyspepsia. 

The cookery in cases of this complaint can hardly be too 
simple. The appetite should not be tempted by savoury com- 
pounds, but by so preparing the article that its peculiar taste 



i 



286 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

should be made prominent and attractive, and at the same 
time its texture made more soluble and digestible. The 
chapter on cookery in the First Part of this work may supply 
a few hints, and the few recipes that follow are efforts in the 
same direction. 



Duke of YorWs Universal Sauce. 
(See Pepys' Diary, February 10, 1668-9). 

Pound hard dried toast and a tablespoonful of peppercorns 
in a mortar, and boil them with an equal quantity of chopped 
parsley (or any other herb liked) and a dessert-spoonful of 
salt in a small teacupful of water. Add a teaspoonful of white 
vinegar, Tarragon vinegar, or lemon- juice. 

Beluh for Fish, 

Fish is made more digestible and has its flavour brought 
out by a few drops of lemon-juice squeezed over it. And a 
very wholesome sauce may be made by snipping up very small 
with scissors a fresh capsicum into a glass of sherry. The 
same may be advantageously added to soup in doses of a salt- 
spoonful to the plate. It does not provoke cough, like black- 
pepper. 

White Mayonnaise Sauce, 

Put the yolk of a hard-boiled egg in a small basin ; break 
it up fine with a wooden spoon, adding a pinch of salt and a 
pinch of pepper. Then keep on stirring briskly, while you 
pour in, drop by drop, the best sweet olive oil to the extent of 
about two dozen teaspoonfuls. With each eighth teaspoonful 
of oil, add a teaspoonful of white vinegar. Tarragon vinegar, 
elder vinegar, or otherwise seasoned vinegar, can be used by 
those who like them ; or a teaspoonful of French mustard may 
be added. 



WEAK DIGESTION, 287 

Boiled Flounders. 

Put the flounders in a stewpan with a moderate quantity 
of boiling water, seasoned with a little salt ; take off the scum, 
and continue the boiling ten minutes. Drain the fish on a 
fish-plate before the fire, and serve. 

Bice Milk (Qouffe), 

Blanch in plenty of water 2^ ozs. of best Carolina rice ; 

Cool with plenty of cold water, and drain ; 

Boil 3 pints of milk in a 2-quart stewpan ; 

Mix the rice in the milk, and stir on the fire till boiling ; 

Add a lump of sugar and a small pinch of salt — say ^ oz. 

of each ; 
Boil for an hour ; serve. 

Other milk soups — vermicelli, semolina, tapioca, &c. — are 
prepared in the same way, and form an excellent light 
supper. 

Potato Surprise. 

Scoop out the inside of a sound potato, leaving the skin 
attached on one side to the whole, as a lid. Mince up fine the 
lean of a juicy mutton chop, with a little salt and pepper, put 
it in the potato, pin down the lid, and bake or roast. Before 
serving (in the skin), add a little hot gravy, if the mince seems 
too dry. 

Bran Tea (^Digestive). 

Select good fresh bran, with glenty of the whitish powder 
adhering to it, and infuse it in wa^r at least 40° Fahr. under 
boiling point, in the proportion of about two ounces to the 
quart. A quart of boiling water may be cooled to the right 
warmth by the addition of half a pint of cold water. 



288 DIET IN SICKNESS. 



Egged Gocoa (Nutritive) . 

Rub the white and yolk of an egg with a teaspoonftil of 
soluble cocoa till quite smooth ; and then pour in gradually, 
still stirring, not more than half a pint of milk, warm from the 
cow if possible— if not, warmed but unboiled ; so that it may, 
be taken directiy. 

Almmid Soup {very nutritious). 

Wash a quarter of a pound of rice ; drain, and put it in a 
stewpan, with a pint and a half of milk, a pinch of salt, and 
half an ounce of sugar, and simmer over a slow fire for an 
hour. 

Blanch and peel a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds, 
and five bitter almonds ; pound them in a mortar, adding half 
a pint of milk during the pounding. Add a pint more milk 
when they are pounded smooth, and strain. Then warm but 
do not boil, the last mixture, stirring it all the time. Pour it 
when hot over the rice in a tureen. 



289 



CHAPTER IV. 

GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 

There can be no sort of donbt that good cheer indulged in, 
either by himself or his ancestors, is the principal canse of 
every man's gont. Even where it is hereditary, the patient 
will generally be found to have assisted in bringing it on by 
his own love of nice things. The cases where it is traceable 
to lead poison, peculiar exposure to cold and damp, and a few 
other rare causes, need not trouble us much, as when they 
do occur their pathology is very obvious. 

But if it is due to good cheer, shall we not be able to detect 
the identical article or articles, out of whose pleasant substance 
is made the scourge to lash us ? Shall we not be able, by ex- 
cluding this, to enjoy the cup without the bitter drop at the end 
of it ? 

Those of our fellow- citizens who drink Champagne, Port, 
Madeira, Sherry, Burgundy, are of all the population the most 
prone to gout. These liquors contain a peculiarly large pro- 
portion of alcohol ; and so, exclaim the growers of light wines 
and total abstainers, alcohol is the cause of gout. But wait 
— observe the Glasgow labourer and the Irish peasant, and 
the Swede and Russ, who consume in the .form of spirits six 
times the amount of alcohol that we do. They are quite free 
from gout. 

Is it the acid in these drinks ? Hardly — ^for they, really 
do not contain any marked excess. Or the sugar P No — or 
sweetened tea would be equally noxious. 

u 



290 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

Or it is the peculiar combination of all three P Possibly. 
Bat I think a more rational explanation is that the classes 
who are rich enough to enjoy these luxuries are rich enough 
to enjoy other luxuries also. In fact, the cases of gout 
originating in the individual himself, without his being able to 
throw any blame upon his pedigree, occur in those who daily 
consume a larger quantity of nutritious food than their bodies 
require, or than can, by the assimilative powers they possess, 
be converted into useful muscle. Hence there is an accumula- 
tion of oxidisable matters which fail to attain the end of their 
chemical transformations, which do not become urea. So that 
there remains in the system an excess of them, especially of 
uric acid, convertible into urate of soda, the characteristic 
deposit in gout. Other contributors to the production of gout 
run hand in hand with the over-eating of meat, rather than 
with indulgence in fermented liquors only. Laziness can 
hardly be dissociated from gluttony — picture the latter, and 
you picture the former. And laziness can easily be understood 
to actiin the same direction, by arresting the oxidation wHich 
is the .result of due exercise. Immoral self-indulgence of 
another sort aids the development of gout by the exhaustion of 
the nervous system, which it induces without corresponding 
muscular action.^ And the same steps of causation may be 
traced in a more honourable factor, intellectual ambition, v^ch 
tempts the possessor to use his brain and let his limbs languish. 
Damp cold also, by weakening and retarding the circulation 
helps in a minor degree the evil effects of gorging the digestive 
organs with nitrogenous food. Such seems to me tHe history 
of the origination of gout in the constitution. 

The part played by fermented liquors seems rather the 
bringing on of the acute attack, of which almost all habitual 
sufferers can cite an instance. One man takes some port vdne 
which he has left off for years, and the same night is woke up 
with the horribly familiar stab in the small joints. Another 

Tiwarax Otrydrrip Xuo^i/icA^y Uo^dypa, — Anthol, Gr<Bca, 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 291 

drinks a few classes of champagne, and feels his foot twinge 
and swell before he leaves the table. 

This consequence of an nnhabitual excess is of the greatest 
importance in diagnosis. For we may lay it down as nni- 
versally true that when a few glasses of wine or beer are 
followed soon by the inflammation of a joint or pain in a 
trunk nerve, the inflammation or pain is of a gouty 
nature.^ 

When a man day after day swallows more nitrogenous food 
than is wanted for the repair of his tissues, we may reasonably 
expect, from what we already know of the chemical changes in 
the body, the following results to follow, varying with the 
original constitution of his frame. If the stomach and the 
intestines are weak secretors of digestive solvents, the greater 
part of the excess passes through the abdominal canal in an 
undissolved state and partially decays there. The patient is 
liable to irregularity of bowels, fetid stools, flatulence, to 
diarrhcBa interchanging with constipation, to piles, uterine con- 
gestions, sometimes in youth to obstructions of the absorbents 
from the constant neighbourhood of abnormal rejecta, and so 
to abdominal tuberculosis and phthisis. If the digestive 
solvents are copious and strong, then indeed the excess is 
digested, and if he lives an active out-of-door life, like a hunting 
Indian of the Pampas, much of the albumen goes to form 
glycogen, and the balance is wasted in an unexplained way 
but does not necessarily act noxiously to a hardy frame. So 
that the weaklier members of society die young of ma- 
rasmus, rickets, consumption, &c., while the hardier ones 
survive to be succeeded by a race still more vigorous than them- 
selves, but very exclusive as to numbers. The violent muscular 
exertion, the high training, needful to oxidise the nitrogenous 
waste is inconsistent with the manners of civilised society ; so 
that a man in the prime of life with a vigorous stomach, who 
eats too much meat, habitually retains in his blood an excess 
of uric acid, into which this nitrogenous waste converts itself. 
J Cyr de r Alimentation, part ii. chap. ii. article 1. 

17 2 



292 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

The barm done hj sugar combined with copious xneat-eaidng is 
partly its easy conversion into lactic acid, and so the snbstitation 
of that element of nutrition already formed for the decom- 
position of the glycogen into it, leaving a further excess to 
form uric acid. Uric acid in the blood has been distincily 
traced as the cause of gout. Perhaps the imaginary first 
offender develops decided gout ; and that is the best thing 
that can happen, for it makes him more carej^ in future.^ 
More often he does not do so ; his bloodvessels get xused to the 
uric acid, and accommodate themselves to it, and so an inter- 
stitial organic degeneration is inaugurated. like other defects 
of form it becomes hereditary, is intensified in the next eenera- 
tion, and permanent in the family, sometimes cropping out 
and sometimes being overruled by crossing. The inherited 
diathesis is the most potent element in gout, and hence it is 
peculiarly an ailment of ancient and prosperous races. 

The views above stated as to the origin of gout can sug- 
gest but one line of preventive treatment. The children of 
gouty families should be brought up to a life of strict abstemi- 
ousness and muscular activity — *to scorn delights and Hve 
laborious days.' They must not compound for temperance in 
alcohol by indulgence in dainty meats, sweet pastry, soft beds 
or idleness. At the same time I would not encourage them 
to aim at high athleticism, to glory too much in their streng'tlu 
The result of this very often causes a reactionary depression 
at the period of middle life, which persons hereditarily healthy 
can resist, but which, in the case of those with ancestral 
tendency to gout, develops the disease. 

From the earliest years, vegetables should form a consider- 
able portion of the dietary. They should be famished in great 
variety, so that the young may acquire a taste and a digestion 
for them. The various sorts of * meagre' (or meatless) soups 
found in cookery books, and others which an inventive mind 

' In insuraiice business it is remarkable what a number of im^tanpes 
one finds of a proposer having had a single attack o^ gout and no more. 
It is a proof of sound sense^and instinctiTe liygiene in the British zaoe. 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM, 293 

"will snggest, should be habitual. Porridge for breakfast may 
be iaken to any amoant— what men are grown upon it in 
Northumberland and the north of Yorkshire ! And in butter- 
milk will be found the best quencher of the thirst and nourish- 
ing digester of other victuals as well as itself. As they grow 
up, the young people should be impressed with the reason of 
this temperance, and urged ^^o persevere in it, not only for their 
ownsakes, but as a moral duty for the sake of their descendants. 
A man has a right to choose for himself one of two paths, but 
he has no right to lead involuntary followers along that which 
seems the pleasantest at the moment. 

If the tackling with the disease by diet and regimen be 
undertaken only after the development of it has taken place, 
the task is much more difficult, but not a fair subject for 
despair. Dr. Garrod, than whom none has sought more 
diligently for medicinal remedies for gout, or more advanced 
our knowledge of its pathology, says that * if a gouty man 
could entirely lay aside his usual habits, and follow in all 
respects the dictates of nature, there would probably be little 
need to seek relief from medicine.' ^ By * nature ' must be 
meant the higher nature, reason or common sense ; for man's 
desires are so perverted by the prejudices of education, and 
by moral and physical inheritance, that one cannot well trust 
to their guidance in the treatment of disease. But by nature 
in this sense, that is by rational management, it seems pretty 
certain that gout may be so far checked as will enable the 
patient to enjoy life, to live to his full term, and to hand down 
an untainted constitution to his successors. 

An honest trial must be made, for three months at least, 
of an entire abstinence from all alcohol, except a little weak 
claret and water at dinner. If in that time weight is gained 
or not lost, let the rule of abstinence be established for good 
and all. 

If it is found that alcohol cannot, in the judgment of a com- 
petent temperate medical man, be left off, it will be best to take 
* Beynold's Si/stem of Medicine, rol. i. p. 875. 



294 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

as the habitual form of it, Hollands and soda-water. The 
quantity of spirit should not ever exceed a small wine^lassfol, 
and be taken either at dinner, or in cases of sleeplessness, at 
bedtime, but not at both. 

Meat should be eaten but once a day. In other respectSi 
the advice given in the last chapter as to food and cookery 
may be held valid for gouty persons as well as atonic djspep- 
tics. The obedience of the cook to orders is of paramount 
importance ; and it will be well also to warn our patient 
not to be trying this or that dish as good for gout, at the 
bidding of officious Mends, but to use his own judgment, 
usually sounder than theirs and also strengthened by self- 
interest. 

The digestion of gouty persons is much improved, by a 
winter sojourn in the dry warm air of the islands and high- 
lands which get the benefit of Mediterranean breezes. I am 
unwilling to insult one place by mentioning another, and am 
disposed rather to enlarge upon the general qualities by which 
that great nurse of the civilisation of the human race, the 
Mediterranean, can still earn gratitude, though we are out of 
her leading-strings. 

Without seeking for recondite cosmic influences, take the 
map of Europe, and consider the obvious characters of the 
waves and winds. The supply of fresh water brought by 
rivers to the Mediterranean is very much less than that whidi 
comes by the Gulf Stream from the Polar glaciers to the 
Atlantic. It is therefore Salter, and would be Salter still, and 
in course of generations all salt, were not a vast stream of 
Atlantic water flowing in through the Straits of Gibraltar. 
Being salter, it is more ready to remove moisture from the air, 
and less ready to part with it to the air under varying tem- 
peratures than the ocean which surrounds us at home. Its 
temperature also is more equalised throughout ; there are not, 
as with us, hot and cold streams, the vapours from whicdi meet 
in the air and precipitate their watery burden on the earth. 
So that the atmosphere is, in the first place, clearer, or has a 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 295 

minor degree of hygrometric saturation tlian in the British 
Isles, and, in the second place, is less rainy. 

Of course there is rain, and of course there is east wind 
and north wind in Italy as elsewhere ; but there is not that 
continuous depressing influence of the combination of a cold 
wind with a saturated air which we have. Then the avoidance 
of these black un-ltalian days does not involve an imprison- 
ment of a week or two in the house ; and, in traivelling, a 
change of residence of a few miles will often put you com- 
pletely under shelter. Those who go abroad with an old- 
fashioned guide-book, or take their ideas of Italy from the 
queer little pictures in blue body colour that used to adorn 
our nurseries, may be found grumbling, but those who have 
ever tried to travel in England, and have the faculty of com- 
parison, will be well content. When they see the deep indigo 
horizon, the mark of extra saltness in ocean, which so gene- 
rally bounds the traveller's landscape in Mediterranean lands, 
they will bless it for the clear air of which it is not only the 
indication but the cause. 

The high temperature of the great body of water, so in- 
timately intermingled with the land, preserves that of the air 
from the variations which we experience. This is of course 
most especially the case on the coast, but even inland it may 
be experienced. The sole exception is that of certain spots 
in the immediate vicinity of snow-clothed mountains, the air 
blowing over which in the early spring is much chilled. So 
that in such places as Florence, for example, a change of wind 
from the sea breeze to a Tramontana may cause a yery sudden 
fall of the thermometer. But yet the even temperature of 
Italy as a whole, compared with England as a whole, must bo 
allowed ; its exposed climates are less variable than our ex- 
posed climates, and its sheltered nooks more completely shel- 
tered than ours. 

There is a higher amount and degree of sunlight than in 
our skies, so that all the chemical actions in the animal body 
must be intensified. A conspicuous evidence of this is the 



i 



296 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

readiness with which the skin of the face becomes tanned eyen 
in the short and fresh winter days. 

Again, Uie nervous system is much more awake to the 
effects of alcohol ; so that instinctively less qnautities are 
taken to produce the required effects. There are Bonth of the 
Alps very few, if any, water drinkers ; but there are also very 
few indeed who indulge in strong drink. One does not * fsel 
to want it.' A single glass of Orvieto or Capri there seems 
to produce as much exhilarating relief as an allowance of the 
domestic port or sherry containing five times the quantity of 
spirit. And not only is it felt superfluous, but positive dis- 
comfort is felt as the immediate effect of what appears to a 
stranger moderate doses of alcohol. 

A corresponding observation may be made in respect of 
animal food. Less is hankered after by the invalid, and, 
moreover, a less rich or fat meat than in England. Without 
a failure of appetite, he yet feels satisfied with a smaller 
quantity. 

In Italy and Spain sleep is less profound, and easier shaken 
off and dispelled by slight disturbances. This light and short 
repose is soon found to be the custom of the country, and the 
mind being set at rest is satisfied with it. 

There are no lands where there is so much variety to 
divert the mind from preying on its own thoughts as these. 
It may be doubted whether the past, the present, or the future 
offers most to attract the attention. If none of the strata of 
historical relics interest the traveller, he can still hardly help 
feeling their present picturesqueness, and the loveliness of 
the forms and colours by which they are surrounded ; while 
to the social or political observer the specimen of a naturally 
intellectual and industrious people, long restrained by unto- 
ward circumstances, and now at length bursting out for good 
and for evil into new life, is unique. He desires to live, were 
it only to see what becomes of them. 

Now reflect how these various agencies may act on the 
human body. The dryness of air, without excessive heat or 



GOUT AND EHEUMATISM. 297 

cold, renders it nniiecessaTy for mncons membranes to put on 
their slimy coats of mncus. They are in a more active con- 
dition for the work of absorbing oxygen, digesting, extracting 
nntriment or water, or whatever else they are required to do. 
They are filled with blood, and pass it on rapidly with its 
fresh burden of renewed life to the tissues. So that the dis- 
integration and removal of the effete products that cause gout 
is actively promoted. 

The evenness of temperature renders it possible for all, 
invalids included, to be a great deal in the open air, and take 
the exercise which has been described as so essential to those 
of gouty constitution. 

The action oi sunlight in reddening the blood is familiar 
to even the poets. The etiolated plant of northern climes is 
quickly by it rendered crisp and hardy, and the same effect 
may be inferred to take place in the etiolated animal. It is 
of great importance in atonic gout. 

Spite of all the arguments of philanthropists, alcohol will 
always remain an evil necessity to brain- working populations 
in northern climes. I do not know but what its occasional 
use is a necessity in all climes. But certainly a little goes 
farther in the south, and therefore less is requisite, if any. 
Thus is avoided the temptation to the slight daily excess, 
which is the most dangerous temptation to the gouty. 

It is not alone on the passing traveller that Italy's special 
(I will not call it fatale) *dono dibellezza' acts. There is 
scarce a peasant but what is proud of the external aspect of 
his country, and I am not at all sure that this feeling is not as 
powerful an assistant as any material agency in enabling him 
to live and flourish contentedly on what would starve or drive 
into melancholy madness an English convict or pauper. Do 
not set down this as sentimentalism or artistic whim. Con- 
sider how continually the converse of the experiment is im. 
pressed upon us by blue-books and sanitary reporters, who 
are constantly repeating that a monotonous colourless life, such 




298 DIET IN SICENESa 

as finds its exaggerated type in solitary confinement, renders 
absolutely requisite an excessive quantitj, and under other 
conditions an nn wholesomely stimulating qnalitj, of food to 
preserve in health the mind and body, althong'h no complaint 
is made by the sufierer. Why then should it not be true 
that the daily life among picturesque and cheery scenes saves 
the victuals, although the benefited are ignorant of their 
blessings ? 

But it is indubitably for the stranger, as Filicaja complains 
in his touching sonnet, that this banquet of sweets is princi- 
pally spread. The temporary resident profits more than the 
native by the fair scenes and their associations, by their 
ennobling and rousing efiect on the mind, and through the 
mind on the body. They have for him the additional charm 
of variety and novelty. 

I have dwelt somewhat lengthily on the effects of a warm 
tonic climate in this chapter, not because its benefits are ex-* 
clusively, or even principally confined to the gouty, but to 
finish up the subject as a whole, and be enabled in speaking of 
the treatment of other diseases merely to refer to it. 

The most expedient form of exercise for a gouty person is 
riding, as he will not be deterred from it by a little tenderness 
of foot or ankle so often as if he only walks. 

Gouty persons suffer frequently from relaxed, sluggish 
piles, especially when travelling. The best regiminal treat- 
ment for them is to take some cayenne pepper with food as an 
astringent to the mucous membrane of the rectum, and to not 
only wash the external orifice, but to dash quite cold water 
against it till a glow of reaction is felt in the bowels, every 
time after the bowels have been opened. A full supply of 
green vegetables in the dietary should be secured. 

I cannot reconmiend that the nialaise which gouty persons 
often feel for a considerable period, no better and no worse, 
should be put an end to by a debauch productive of an acute 
paroxysm. It possibly may hasten the advent of the attack, 



GOUT AND RHEUMATISM. 299 

but there is no proof of its bringing the end of it any nearer. 
Whereas other treatment, which it is not the place to discuss 
here, accomplishes both objects, and gives a chance of escape 
altogether. 

Timid sufferers will sometimes demand spirituous liquors 
* to keep the gout out of the stomach,' as they say. Now real 
gouty gastritis is a very terrible malady. I had once the op- 
portunity of examining the stomach of a debauchee who died 
of it, and found the mucous membrane in a state exactly re- 
sembling that produced by oxalic acid. This, however much 
to be dreaded, is not likely to be kept off by alcohol. But in 
point of fact such affections of the stomach are very rare, and 
when they do occur, do not appear to be retrocedent, or to 
arise from repulsion of the external inflammation into the 
viscera, but to be an extension of the morbid process, just as 
inflanmiation in pericarditis is an extension of the rheumatic 
fever. So that one does not see how anything but harm can 
be done by alcohol. 

In spite of its rarity, it is curious how much patients talk 
about 'gout in the stomach.' I have ofben thought that 
medical men must have called by that name attacks of acute 
dyspepsia from indigestible food, or of windy spasms, or of 
gastric neuralgia. These last are likely enough to happen to 
the gouty, but differ nowise in their requirements from the 
same ailments occurring in others. 

The regimen of Rheumatic Gout does not vary except in 
the details, which must be suited to each individual case, from 
that of Gout. 

Chronic Rheumatism, or the rheumatics, seldom need lay a 
patient up, if he will adopt the simple dietetic expedient of 
eating a certain quantity of fresh mustard with every meal, 
much if he is worse than usual, a little if he is pretty comfort- 
able. He should avoid bathing in cold water, which will tend 
to derange his digestion. 

We must, however, carefully make the diagnosis in each 



300 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

instance between chronio rheomatism, which is a disease of 
the fibrons tissaes, and neuralgic pains, which nm along the 
lines of the nerves. The latter are not unfirequently benefited 
by cold water, and are aggravated by warmth, especially by a 
hot bed. Medicinal treatment is here essential. 



i 



3o: 



CHAPTBK V. 

GRAVEL, STONE, ALBUIONUBIA AND DIABETES. 

Urinabt diseases form a separate class for the consideration 
of the dietician, hecanse in them we have to keep in mind not 
only what is likely to affect the general health, bat also what 
will affect the kidneys and bladder specially, by producing a 
secretion capable of exercising a locally deleterions action. 

Uric add forms the nncleus of the great majority of nrinary 
concretions, and many entirely consist of it. The small red 
grains, like cayenne pepper, and the brown lumps of gravel or 
stone, are all of considerable hardness and of smooth exteriors, 
so that their presence is often unfelt till they make themselves 
evident, either by passing out into daylight, or by concreting 
together and becoming large enough to be a mechanical im- 
pediment. The great object in treatment must be to prevent 
the deposit of uric acid in the renal secretion ; and when the 
tendency to it is once proved, not to await the advent of 
symptoms which only arise at late periods of the disease. 

Uric acid is deposited only when it is in excess. Excess 
of uric acid in the system is« if not absolutely identical, at all 
events closely related to the diathesis of gout. So that all 
that has been said about the regimen pf that disease may be 
applied without any reservation to this contingency also. The 
strict observation of it is the more urgent in the degree that 
stone is the more painful and dangerous of the two. 

Oxalate of lime is a substance whose veiy presence in the 
urine is decidedly abnormal and morbid. It may be derived 



302 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

by occasional accident from some article of food, snch as 
tomatoes, or rhubarb, or sorrel, without inconvenience accru- 
ing ; but when not to be accounted for in this way, it eyidences 
a departure from health, and the persistence of its deposit leads 
to a most painful form of stone. Its shape is sharp-pointed 
crystals, and these grow together into knobby masses, which 
whether from their form or other unexplained causes give 
rise to great agony in the parts they come into contact mth. 
It is of great moment, therefore, to detect its existence in the 
urine at an early date, so as to anticipate the evil results. 

Oxalate of lime is often found in children who live in the 
'.country and have been under-fed. In this case it would appear 
to arise from their eating an excess of acid fruits and bad 
vegetables, and drinking hard unboiled water. Chemists tell 
us that citric, malic, and other organic acids distributed 
through the vegetable world, are liable to conversion into 
oxalic ; so that it is not necessary that it should be naturally 
a constituent of the food eaten, but may arise during its fer-> 
mentation or digestion. 

It also is formed in the urine of adults in consequence of 
exposure to damp cold, deficiency of fresh air, and a low 
monotx)nous diet. The debility arising from frequent attacks 
of gout also induces the formation, so that it appears mingled 
with urate of ammonia or soda, easily distinguishable from 
that amorphous deposit by the pointed octohedral shape of the 
crystals under the microscope. The persons in whom I have 
found oxalate of lime have been of a nervous sensitive consti- 
tution, and those"'of the male sex have frequently suffered from 
nocturnal seminal emissions. They always feel much the 
irritation of the neck of the bladder induced by the morbid 
urine. 

The indication afforded by the formation of oxalate of lime 
is to secure a generous animal diet, warm clothing, fresh air, 
gentle exercise and rest ; but, above all, that repose of mind 
the want of which is a prominent cause of the indigestion. 
Jlhubarb, sorrel, apples, pears, and in short any raw fruit and 



GRAVEL AND STONE. 303 

vegetables, shonld be avoided. Watercresses and lettuce are 
the least objectionable, as they are sedative to the nrinary 
organs and prevent a scorbutic condition of the blood. A 
small quantity of old spirits and water at meals, does not in 
general disagree. 

Phosjphcktic salts are a natural ingredient in the urine. The 
healthier a man is the more of them does he excrete. In the 
normal condition of acidity of the urine they are quite dis- 
solved. But when from the irritating presence of a foreign 
body, such as a uric acid calculus for instance, the sur&ce of 
the mucous membrane of the urinary apparatus becomes so 
alkaline that it makes the water alkaline also, then the phos- 
phatic salts are concreted into crystals and solid masses. Thus, 
the uric acid calculus, or other foreign body, becomes coated 
with a layer of a nature quite different from its own. Idio- 
pathic, or constitutional inflammation of the bladder and 
kidneys, may also deprive the urine of its healthy acidity, and 
cause phosphatic gravel to concrete without any visible nucleus 
to concrete upon. But I cannot say I have seen the same 
happen from the temporary alkalinity dependent on taking 
soda, magnesia, or potash in the medicine or diet. However, 
where there is a fear of this result, in case of an alkali being 
required, it is wise to use the more difTusible one, ammonia. 

The treatment of the morbid condition here alluded to is 
wholly surgical. The mechanical removal of the cause of 
irritation is imperative where it is possible. Where it is im- 
possible, the special treatment of the local inflammation 
causing it is the only rational procedure. 

Gravel formed of the strange greenish substance called 
* cystine ' is very rare. I have met with only one person who 
has ever passed it, and he seems to be nowise deteriorated in 
health. From the large quantity of sulphur it contains (2G 
per cent.) it would seem to be formed by the decomposition of 
some animal matter, perhaps solidified mucus. 

Chronic AlJymnirmrta, or Bright's disease of the kidneys, 
is a complex state, the complications of which involve several 



Sf)4 DIET 15 sicxir£aa. 

<'omlition«< with fte[)iimte bearings <m the ^lyripp of tibe 

appropriatir diot and regimen. 

The <'Hsr>ntial featare in Bright*B Hi nn ai^e i^ an 
natrition of the arnaller bloodvesselB, by rrmfiun of whiditiieT 
JojM* their olastirity and tone, become thick mnd firmble, aie 
€ibfitructffd, and are anable to snpplj the glandular utraclm e 
€if the kidney with the blood for depuration. TTfm^^ % leiai- 
tion of tho urea which shoold be cleansed oat from the drcn- 
luting hlrKKl. The blood thus fooled, ftdls to absorb snffideni 
ozy^(;n, iH ini]>crfectly aerated, and cannot renew its red 
pailiclf^. Hence, with the retention of nrea there is *»«Mnm 
alHO. Uy i he force of the heart the fluid is still driven along, 
but it uu*i'\H obstruction, instead of help, in its oonise firam 
the action r^f the capillaries ; and there ensues an exudation of 
the eiiHicNt c*zudcd, that is the serous, part of its snbetance into 
the noartfHt ojwn space. Hence the urine, at the same time 
tliat it lacks the urea which it ought to cany away, is 
loaded with albumen abnormally abstracted from the circula- 
tion. 

The object aimed at by the dietician should be to snpply 
the nutrient organs with aliment which is the most readily 
and rapidly convertible into blood and tissue, namely, diges- 
tible aTiinial food in frequent moderate quantities. The food 
must be albuminous, because one of the serious oonseqnences 
of the disease is the loss of albumen exuded through the renal 
vessels ; and it must be easy of digestion, because the strengih 
of the solvent juices is diminished ; and it must be frequent 
because only small quantities can be taken at once. The phy- 
sician will also feed the ansBmic blood with iron, and in his use 
of drugs will choose such as contribute to rectify the defi- 
ciencies of the digestion. Bearing in mind the fouling of the 
blood with effete matters, he will advise a copious use of aque- 
ous drinks, which flow out readily by the kidneys, carrying 
with them such constituents of the diseased body as are 
soluble in water. Especially will he carefully disabuse the 
mind of his patient of the notion that the drinking of water 



GRAVEL AND STONE. 305 

leads to dropsy, and that the thirst should be thwarLed on 
this ground. The warning is very necessary ; for an albumi- 
nuriac hardly ever escapes at least some subcutaneous collec- 
tion of fluid in the face, or legs, and if his doctor has previ- 
ously been urging on him the use of diluents, he accuses them 
of having caused the symptom. In point of fact the best and 
only thoroughly safe diruotic for the relief of albuminurious 
dropsy, is water, and it is also a valuable preventive. 

In disease of the structure of the kidneys, and especially in 
albuminuria, it is obvious that harm must be done by alcohol. 
There is no thoroughfare through the kidneys for the natural 
amount of urea and phpsphates, still less for the alcohol. Thus 
the ordinary safety-valve is shut up. In this condition coma is 
often brought on prematurely by neglect of the warning voice 
of the sensations. Albuminuriacs will always remark that they 
feel stupid and sleepy after their accustomed amount of wine, 
and this should bo a hint to their medical attendant to leave 
it off, instead of encouraging them to persist on the plea of* 
weakness, as is often done. 

An additional reason in behalf of abstinence is that 
albuminuria, at least in its chronic form, indicates a degenera- 
tive diathesis, which has been already pointed out as one of 
the bad influences upon health of alcohol. Whether alcohol 
or cold be the sharper blade of the shears, so apt to cut short 
life's thread by Bright's disease, I care not greatly ; inasmuch 
as it cannot bo questioned that both of them have that 
tendency. It is their union which is so irresistible a foe to 
the poorer working classes who come to hospitals, and it is 
the avoidance of that union which protracts the lives of our 
wealthy patients. I cannot repent of including albuminuria 
with its attendant evils among the diseases caused by alcohol, 
and I very much object to the gin and whisky punch, the hot 
grogs, and the spirituous diuretics which I have known 
albuminuriacs advised to drink. If they must have the 
liquors, let them at any rate indulge in an occasional bout 
and be done with it, and not consume their poison in its most 

X 



306 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

fatal form of small repeated doses. Warm dilaoDts are jost 
as good diarctics without alcohol as with it. In cases of in- 
somnia in an albuminarions diathesis, the being precluded bj 
pmdence from the free use of opiates is a serious trouble. It 
is worth while to try the dietetic night-cap of lactate of 
soda, for which a recipe is given at the end of Chapter VII. 
{infra). 

There is considerable diflficulty in persuading patients to 
persist in a systematic milk diet ; but if it cau be managed, I 
am persuaded nothing would give a better chance of putting 
a stop to the progress of the lesion under consideration. 

In Diabetes certainly life is prolonged, and the risk of the 
intercurrent maladies diminished, by a diet in "which sugar 
and articles which form sugar, are, as far as practicable ex- 
eluded. 

M. Bouchardat, Professor of Hygiene at the University of 
Paris, gives the following list of eatables whose chemical 

compoRition makes them injurious to diabetics ^ : . 

Sugar ; — 

Bread of any kind, or pastry ; — 

Rice, maize, and other starchy grains ; — 

Potatoes, arrowroot, tapioca, among root products • 

Sago, among piths ; — 

Among manufactured starches, macaroni, vermicelli 
and semolina ;-^ 

Of vegetable seeds, peas and beans of all sorts and 
chestnuts ; — 

Radishes, turnips, beet-root, carrots ;— 
All preserved fruits, apples, and pears ; — 
Honey, milk, beer, cider, sweet and sparkling- wines 
lemonades, and such like sweetened acid drinks. 

Happily the list of permissible articles of diet is somewhat 
longer, and might easily be extended by the introduction of 

* The list has been somewhat modified in translation ; but the spirit 
has been adhered to. 



DIABETES. 307 

nutritious eatables kept out of European markets by want of 
demand. The diabetic may eat without fear — 

Meat of all kinds, brown or white, boiled, roast, or grilled, 
and seasoned with any sauce pleasing to the palate, provided 
there be no flour or sugar in it ; — 

To the curious gourmet, affected with diabetes, it may be 
mentioned that Professor Bouchardat especially commends the 
flesh of carnivorous animals, and advises their trying cat, dog, 
and fox. Probably larks, robins, and ducks will be more to 
their taste. The liver, however, should not be eaten, and by 
removing the fat a great deal of the rank flavour of the car- 
nivora is avoided ; — 

All sorts of fish, shell-fish, lobsters, turtle and terrapin ; — 

Eggs ;— 

Cream and cheese ; — 

Spinach, endive, lettuce, sorrel, asparagus, hop-tops, arti- 
chokes, French beans, Brussels sprouts, cabbage (the last 
* very good with pickled pork or bacon,' says the good-natured 
professor) ; — 

Salads of cress, endive, American cress, com salad, dande- 
lion, lettuce, with a full allowance of oil and hard boiled 

eggs;— 

(To this list we may be allowed to add mushrooms) ; — 
Fresh vegetable gluten, i.e, dough with the starch washed 

out, may be made into an agreeable dish with grated Parmesan 

or Gruyere cheese and butter ; — 

Anchovy and Ravigote butter (see Gouffe) ; — 

For dessert, olives. On high days and holidays, when the 

patient has begun to improve, some fresh summer fruit, of 

course without sugar ; — 

The wearing hunger may be much appeased by chewing 

cocoa beans. 

For drink, a bottle and a half of good claret or Burgundy 

may be taken in the day. Those who prefer it may take 

instead brandy and soda-water, one part of the former to nine 

of the latter. Fresh beef-tea is a capital quencher of thirst. 

X 2 



308 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

CoflTco, with cream.' 

It maybe observed that several of these last-named victuals 
are not entirely devoid of sugar, starch, or inosite; but the 
quantity \h ho nmall tliat they may be conceded as a variety,aiid 
are nr>t considrrod dangerous by onr chief aothoritj on the 
subject w}i() lias hero been quoted, ^o serious enlargement of 
this ynenu has l>eon attempted by subsequent 'writers cm tlie 
subject, exropt Dr. Donkin, who has brought forward a large 
collection of cnpcR to show that the sugar of milk is not to be 
feared nH an article of diet, inasmuch as it is not in a form which 
is capable of being excreted as diabetic sugar, and therefore not 
liable to increase the disease.' This opinion has also the support 
of Dr. lk;nce Jones, who maintained that daring digestion the 
sugar of milk is converted entirely into lactic acid ; in fiict, 
that it undergoes in the stomach the same change that it does 
in the air under the influence of casein as a ferment.* 

So eligible does Dr. Donkin find milk as an article of dia- 
betic diet that he has persuaded some patients to restrict them- 
selves entirely to it, deprived of its cream and of some portion 
of its scrum. And in cases of the milder forms of the disease 
remarkably beneficial results appear to have followed. 

The plan is to take no food whatever except skim milk. 
Tho quantity must bo proportioned to appetite ; but if a gallon 
and a half is not found enough, then no more fluid milk must 
bo taken, but only curd or junkets. (It may be mentioned 
that a sprinkle of nutmeg and a taste of Madeira will 
make the junkets much more palatable).^ Kthe patient is not 
decidedly better after a week's trial of the treatment he is 
advised to leave it ofi*. 

Diabetic patients should always chew slowly, eat often 
but moderately ; and drink should be taken in the same 
fashion. 

* Bouchardat, Du Diabite sucrit Paris, 1852. 

' On the Relation between Diabetes and Food, p. 61. 

' Lecture on Digestion, &c., Medical Timea, April 1851. 

* See Fart I. chap. ii. § 7, ' On Dairy Produoe.' 



DIABETES. 309 

They will assist digestion much by wearing a flannel belt 
round their waist next the skin. 

They should take a great deal of gentle exercise in the open 
air. 

The digestion will also be improved by quinine and strych- 
nine, to which may be added, with the approbation of the 
dietician, cod-liver oil. The action of soda, also, in augment- 
ing the secretion of gastric juice, may be brought into play by 
the dietetic employment of Vichy water. 

Among the substances forbidden to diabetics, is unhappily 
included that which is proverbially the one thing needful, * the 
staff of life.* Bread is the article of diet most prominently 
starchy and deleterious, and at the same time the most diffi- 
cult to deny. To get over this difficulty, M. Boachardat de- 
vised a sort of sham bread made of gluten. But it is agreeable 
neither to the eye nor to the taste, and the patients on whom I 
have tried it have preferred going without bread altogether.^ 
A much more palatable substitute is proposed by Dr. Pavy in 
his well-known work on Diabetes — ^namely, cakes made of 
powdered almonds and eggs. 

However, my own opinion is that we do not act wisely in 
enforcing a diet which is really intolerable to the patient. 
The object to be gained is to conciliate the stomach, appetite, 
and fancy, into taking the greatest possible amount of animal 
food and oleaginous matter ; in fact, to assimilate the patient, 
as much as possible, to the Esquimaux with their * Polar ' 
diet, or to Pampas Indians, who have nothing but water and 
beef, beef and water, from the cradle to the grave. And if 
he eats the heartier for having a biscuit, or crust, or glass of 
porter, or even a forbidden vegetable with his meals, it is better 
to give him his way than to tempt him to break through all 
rules altogether by playing the tyrant. 

There is a doubt felt how far the patient's unnatural thirst 
ought to be gratified. Abstinence diminishes the quantity of 
urine, of course. But is that an advantage ? It would seem 

* Ltciures Chiefly Clinical^ lect. zuvii*. 



i 



310 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

better, if the blood gets loaded witb sugar, as analysis proves 
it to be, for tbe foreign ingredient to be Tvaslied ont bj an 
ample outflow, tban for it to remain at tbe risk of poisoning the 
tissues. It will be found that the thirst is closely proportioned 
to the amount of sugar requiring expulsion. When the diet is 
changed from starchy to meaty food, much less is drunk, and 
much less evacuated by the kidneys, although no restriction 
has been laid upon the appetite for liquids. I do not, there- 
fore, check patients in drinking as much dilnent as thej 
wish. 

In all diseases which affect the mucous membrane of the 
urinary apparatus, such as the irritation of a stone in the 
kidneys, ureter, or bladder, an enlarged prostate, gonorrhoea, 
Ac, malt liquors are peculiarly deleterious. They increase 
the secretion of pus, and often bring it back again when it has 
stopped for several days. I have known a gleet which had 
been quite well for a fortnight, brought on again on two 
separate occasions, by taking porter at luncheon ; and the 
urethra did not recover itself so as to bear malt liqnor till after 
a course of quinine. This is not to be accounted for by the 
alcohol contained in the beer, since neither weak spirits and 
water nor sound claret has the same effect ; but it mnst arise 
from some peculiar condition of the transformed malt forming 
an irritating ingredient in the water. 



311 



CHAPTER VL 

DEHCIENT EVACUATION. 

CosTiVKNESS must be regarded as a disorder of the whole 
system, and not of the intestinal canal alone. The first object 
of treatment should be to relieve the body of the presence of 
excrementitions matter, the predominance of which in the 
blood is shown by the dingy, feculent tint of the complexion, 
the sluggish thoughts, the headache, and the slow circulation. 
Purgatives, then, may judiciously be used to commence with ; 
for the immediate relief they afford to the feelings of discom- 
fort is great. But let not the relief be set down to the mere 
' clearing out the bowels ; ' it is the cleansing of the blood 
which is the real aim of the remedy, and the real cause of the 
relief. An inspection of what comes away shows that it has 
been newly made ; it is fresh bile and other constituents of 
recent feoces, not of those which have rested long in the canal. 

Nothing is easier than thus with a vigorous pill and draught 
to drive away, as by a charm, the patient's discomforts ; and 
he is ready enough to cry out that no more is wanted. But 
what is the consequence of leaving off treatment P The 
renewal of the blood and tissues not having had time to regain 
its original activity — there not being enough new-made blood 
to carry on vigorous life — the effete materials again collect, 
and the disease takes a fresh start. Again and again the 
coarse expedient is called for, and at last fails to effect its 
object of giving relief. 

To avoid this evil consequence it is prudent to administer 
no quickly-acting purgatives which completely empty the 



312 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

ubdoniiiml canal, but rather such as cause a gradual increase 
in the 8(>lid mutter of the stools. Aloes and rhnbarb are the 
bi'st ovacuutive ; and I find it also beneficial to combine with 
the chosen drug some resin, which acts as a tonic to the 
mucous membrane, and prevents the exudation of serum and 
mucus. Two or three grains of aloes-and- myrrh pill, every 
night, will in a week produce all the good effect of strong 
purgation ; and it will produce the good permanently instead 
of merely for a time. 

All superfluous food of the sort that has the property of 
arresting evacuation must be left off. Wine, beer, tea, and 
coffee, must, on this account, be excluded from the dietary; 
and milk, cocoa, whey, soda-water. Seltzer- water, Ac., snbsta- 
tnted for them. 

Water is a very ready remedy, and certainly a very 
rational one, when the evacuation by destructive assimLLation 
is deficient. The experiments of Dr. Bocker and of Dr. I^ck* 
show the increase of interstitial metamorphosis by this agent to 
be in close proportion to the quantity taken ; and all who have 
heard or read of the agreeable sensations of patients daring 
their submission to the * Water-cnre ' cannot question its capa- 
bility of removing matter from the tissue. Herein lies its 
strength ; for, as Dr. Bocker observes, ' the demand for new 
tissue, as expressed in the sensation of hunger, keeps place 
exactly with the extent of the metamorphosis.* 

A much less amount of water drinking than is involved in 
a hydropathic course will often be of great service. Let the 
patient take, the first thing of a morning, a tumbler of water 
made spicy by a few cloves which have been placed overnight 
in the tumbler and had boiling water poured on them — a weak 
clove-tea in fact. 

Warm hip-baths are also of great service, and can be borne 
from the first even by those reduced to extreme anaemia and 
lifelessness. Afterwards a cold douche bath, administered by 

* Zeitschrift der K. K. Gcsdhchaft der Aertze eu Wien, April 1854, 
and Vierordfs Archiv. p. 150. 



DEFICIENT EVACUATION. 313 

sitting in warm water and having a bucket of cold water 
poured down the spine, or squirted against the loins with a 
garden syringe, is of essential use, by actively promoting the 
life of the skin and capillaries. Raising the specific gravity 
of the water by the addition of salt, prevents the chill which 
fresh water is apt to impart. 

Green vegetables, of which spinach is the completest 
specimen, should be freely eaten, and summer fruits. Porridge 
is an excellent breakfast ; and brown bread, so that it be not 
new, is beneficial as supplying a good quantity of material for 
the bowels to act upon. Watercresses and dandelion are useful 
eaten raw, and the watery extract from the root of the latter 
forms a suitable drug to assist the digestive organs. Horace 
recommends lettuces, and with some reason.. Both they and 
spinach may be made into soup. 

Roast apples and stewed prunes are much better suited 
than pastry as a second course for the patients we are now 
considering. Stewed prunes can also be taken with meat. 
Figs can be eaten either cold or in a pudding. 

Bacon — the most soothing of fats to the digestive canal — 
eaten at meals, or two teaspoonfuls of salad oil taken at bed- 
time, prevent that drying and hardening of the contents of 
the bowels which causes much of the inconvenience, and they 
also augment the activity of the liver. 

Red wines should be avoided by the costive ; they cause 
piles. The best of the white sorts are Chablis, Sauterne, and 
Capri. 

A careful diagnosis should be made between deficient 
evacuation (as above described), from costiveness, and that 
which depends on ansBmia or old age. 

In ansBmia there is almost always joined with it (in the 
female sex) a deficiency of catamenial discharge. It is scanty, 
pale, or even altogether absent. This is an indication for the 
use of iron, phosphatic salts of lime, and cod-liver oil. A diet 
drink of cinchona is especially useful in such cases. 



:il4 DIET a SCKSSSSL 



A!w&-<9 Q^ tbe comnely groimd Sootck ^^^^ynaml Mix 
two thiAirfiyyynfnlM of it with a small teftcapfiil of cold water 
till it U of uniform consistenoe. Then poor in a pint o^ 
boil in 1^ water, mnd keep bofling and sUfriii g it for forty 
minotes. It is then fit to eat, bat may be kept aiminering tiH 
wanted, if a little more water be added as the other steams 
awaj. It sbonld be served in a sonp plate quite hot, and cold 
milk added to rednce it to an eatable temperature. 

Some like salt with it, and some like treacle. 

Brown Bread, 

One of the most nsef al purposes to which to apply brown 
bread is to make it into bread sauce, in the manner before 
mentioned for white bread, ^iized with tomatoes, it makes a 
capital sance for costive persons. 

Brown bread biscuits are also eligible. 

Oatmeal Flwmmery. 

Take crushed Embden grits in proportion to the quantity 
required. Put them into a broad pan, cover with water, stir 
up together, and let stand for twelve hours. Then pour off 
the water so long as it runs clear. Add fresh water, mix, and 
let stand twelve hours more. Repeat the same process a 
third time. When the oatmeal has been thus macerated thirty- 
six hours, strain it through a hair sieve and boil it, stirring 
vigorously till it is quite thick. Pour it, to cool, in a dish, and 
eat it cold with milk, or a little wine and sugar. 

Lettuces with Ora^y (GouffS). 

Take eight round and full cabbage-lettuces ; trim off all the 
outside leaves ; wash and blanch for ten minutes ; cool tlfem 



DEFICIENT EVACUATION. 315 

well ; squeeze the water out : cnt them in two ; lay them open 
on a dish, and season them with three pinches of salt ; tie the 
halves together, and put in a two-quart stewpan ; cover them 
with broth, and add two gills of stock-pot fat, one faggot,^ ailfl 
one onion with two cloves stuck in it ; place a round of paper on 
the top, and simmer for two hours ; when cooked, drain on a 
cloth ; untie and open the lettuces again ; cut the stalks out* 
and fold the leaves round, giving to each piece an oval shape, 
about three inches by two, and dish them in a circle. 

Reduce a pint and a half of household gravy to half the 
quantity ; pour it over the lettuces, and serve. 

Thin slices of crumb of bread, cut to the shape of the 
lettuces, can be put between each lettuce. 

SpinacJi Broth, 

Pick all the stalks from a pound and a half of fresh spinach ; 
wash it and chop it ; put it in a three-quart stewpan with four 
ounces of butter ; stir it over the fire for five minutes ; add an 
ounce of flour and stir again for three or four minutes. Then 
stir in two quarts of chicken broth till it boils. Simmer it on 
a cool stove for half an hour and add a small teaspoonful of 
cream. Serve with it some pulled bread, fried or baked. 

Endive or l^tuce broth may be prepared in the same way. 

Vegetable Soujps in general. 

The making of vegetable soups resembles the making of 
salads. The maker must not depend mechanically upon recipe, 
but must readily take advantage of accidental supply, and 
above all must let the products be distinguished by variety. 
There is nothing from the kitchen garden but what a handy 
cook can make into soup, by frying or otherwise dressing 

' A faggot should contain a small handful of parsley, a sprig of thyme 
and a bay-leaf. It should be tied up with string, so that none of the leaves 
break off in coo!dng. It is a perfectly wholesome seasoning. 



316 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

whatever tlie gardener or shop supply in most abundance. The 
more vegetable, and the more sorts of vegetable, and the less 
meat, the wholesomer it is for those interested in the preceding 
chapter. Crafly cooks sometimes put in a claim to scientific 
distinction by the simple process of cutting the herbs, &c., into 
different forms, and then giving different titles to the product 
— *Hochepot,' 'Jardiniere,' * Brunoise,' 'Julienne,' 'Spring,' 
' Cressi,' ' a la Paysanne,' &c. There is tenfold more difference 
between any one of these as made by a good and as made by a 
tasteless cook, than there is between the bearers of the several 
names. 



31 






CHAPTER VII. 

NERVE DISORDEBS. 

§ 1. Htsteru. 

It has been authoritatively stated that * the physician can do 
bnt little for one who is bom hysteric ; i,e. for one whose 
disease is but an exaggeration of her habitual, constitutional 
state.' * I cannot agree in that sentence, for I am sure that a 
judicious medical adviser may very often give, even to such a 
bom sufferer as above described, advice which will enable her 
not only to be comfortable herself, but to be a useful member 
of society. And of such advice one point of dietetic regimen 
will always form a part in every single case — ' Let no fer- 
mented or spirituous liquid ever cross your lips.' I have not 
a shadow of a doubt that at least one-third of the subjects of 
hereditary hysteria we come across, would never have 
developed into the declared disease had they observed this 
abstinence. 

Hysteria has already been spoken of, in a chapter conclu- 
ding the Second Part of this volume, as kept up, if not 
originally started, by alcohol. This is most especially true 
(according to my observation) of those irregular chronic 
forms of the ailment where there are few, if any, stormy 
paroxysms or convulsions. I have been surprised to find how 
often a total abstinence from fermented and spirituous liquors 
is followed by a restoration of the invalid's strength. That 

* Bejnolds* St/stem of Medicine, vol. ii. p. 825. 



318 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

incapacity for ozortion, which made a witty hysteriac nj Ae 
other dny that she should take * Non posgutnua* as her motto, 
vanishcH as if hj magic, and yoar patient cheerfully adopts aB 
the farther means for her cure. 

Sometimes alcohol can bo identified as the guilty agent bj 
the disease ceasing on the indulgence being left off. A dragr- 
man's viife, of a refined sensitive nature, became sabjectto 
attacks of convulsive sobbing and depression of spiriiB 
especially daring changeable weather; she also freqnentlj 
vomited her food immediately it was swallowed, and at last 
entirely lost the tone of her voice, being nnable to speak above a 
whisper when nnder the excitement of consnltm^ me. She 
had a bitizen-faced ropellant kind of manner, -which sat Yerj 
oddly on a really modest Christian lady ; and in short was 
aboat the most typical case in illustration of the symptoms of 
hysteria I have ever encountered. Long and in^enionsly did 
she elude the discovery that she was given to secret dram- 
drinking, but was at last persuaded to place herself nnder the 
care of a kind Quaker couple, who saw that she had no intoxi- 
cating liquor for two months. All the aphonia, vomiting, and 
other hysterical symptoms went away during this time and it 
is believed have not returned. 

Such is the most usual eflFect produced on a woman pre- 
viously healthy, by frequent small doses of alcohol. She 
becomes hysterical, but rarely does she get delirinm tremens 
from it alone. That form of nervous tornado attacks the 
female sex only in old age, when the feminine characteristics 
are annulled, or in consequence of intense mental excitement • 
whilst in man delirium tremens is much more readily indnced, 
and hysteria only exceptionally. 

It is not here meant to be implied that hysteria in all cases 
or even in any large proportion of cases, is bronght on by 
tippling. Such an idea is quite negatived by the age and 
social condition of most of its victims. Compared with here- 
ditary and educational influences, with mental depression, 
with starvation, with tea-drinking, with pelvic irritatior with 



HYSTEEIA. 319 

indigestion, the experience of the ailment (as collected by M. 
Briquet^), shows the evil power of alcohol to be inconsiderable 
in the number it thus initially affects. Still I cannot but 
think that if they had been made from clinical records in this 
country, his statistics would have assigned more importance 
to it as an originating influence. What we are concerned with 
now, however, is its injurious action on the disease already 
established. Of that I have no doubt. And I find a full ex- 
planation of the fact in the physiological influence which 
alcohol exerts over the nerve-tissue even in the state of health. 
The nutrition of that part of the frame is invariably and 
essentially interfered with, and the interference is of the same 
character as that found in hysteria. Hysteria is a disturbance 
of the nervous system, and upon the nervous system falls 
the chief brunt of alcoholic action. Hysteria is a disease of 
an exhausted nervous system which fails to complete the 
evacuation of the debris of nerve-metamorphosis, and to ex- 
actly the same essential source are traced the degenerations 
following the abuse of alcohol. The making a large quantity 
of watery urine, deficient in acid, deficient in phosphates, 
though easily exhibiting what remains of those salts by reason 
of its want of acid, is one of the most invariable signs of 
hysteria. A reference to a former chapter on alcohol will show 
what a close connection there is between this arrest of meta- 
morphosis and that caused by alcohol, which reduces the urine 
to a precisely similar state. That the nervous system is the 
primary sufierer by the temporary action of alcohol, is obvious ; 
and of hysteria mental depressions, weariness; anxiety, 
sorrow, are the most frequent causes. 

It is the fashion now-a-days to ridicule the long list of 
difiusible stimulants employed by our fathers, and to exclaim 
against their repulsiveness. The accusation is just ; but at all 
events this repulsiveness had one advantage, that the patient 
was very williug to give up taking them when the need was 

* Briquet sur VHyatirie, (See references in Index.) 



320 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

over; whereas the dainty poisons which have insidiously taken 
their place become to the weak-minded hysteric more and more 
attractive the longer they are employed. 

There is in the treatment of hysteria a difficuty of diag- 
nosis which especially concerns the use of alcohol, namely, that 
arising from the freqnent occurrence in the same person, and 
at the same time too, very often, of some variety of neuralgia, 
such as intermittent tic, brow ague, and stitch in the side, 
which when they occur alone are benefited by high living 
and pert wine. A trimming treatment is necessary here ; but 
if the hysteria predominates, I strongly object to the employ- 
ment of alcoholic stimulants. 

The momentary relief afforded by the poison puts a moun- 
tainous difficulty in the path of those who would give their 
clients advice grounded on the truths established by science. 
We feel ourselves so weak, that some have swallowed the 
fallacies of teetotalism, so as to be able to * answer a fool 
according to his folly.' Others of us, to keep one another up 
by mutual moral support, banded together two years ago, to 
sign a protest against the misuse of alcohol in medicine. And 
I do think that the later movement has had considerable 
effect in rousing the consciences of medical men to the mean- 
ness of conciliating patients, especially nervous patients, by 
allowing them to drown pain in what is finally a poison. 

The really easiest way of breaking off the habit of yielding 
to the perverted sensation which so insidiously cries for alcohol, 
is immediately and altogether to relinquish it. Terrible some- 
times is the struggle, yet it is a bracing and ennobling con- 
flict ; whereas the long-continued daily annoyance of giving 
it up little by little is on the whole quite as painful, and is 
often enfeebling to the mind. Moreover, courage is likelier 
to fail in a month than in a day. 

A generous nitrogenous diet is essential in the treatment 
of hysteria. At first porridge and milk and finally meat, 
should be eaten at breakfast, and the last will be found to be 
less repulsive and easier digested if the internal viscera be 



HYSTERIA. 32 1 

previously braced np by a shower bath, or a cold douche to 
the spine. The best drink is milk and soda water, in the pro- 
portion of about half of each. 

The hysteric temperament will in the female sex sometimes 
cause functional derangement of the uterine evacuation, either 
by excess, defect, or painfulness. As a rule, all local treatment 
is to be avoided, and the attention of the patient withdrawn 
from what is, in point of fact, a mere accidental symptom, and 
turned to a due regulation of the diet and regimen. The 
same rule will apply to irritation of the urinary organs. 

Pollutio noctuma in men is usually traceable to an inherited 
cause. Excluding the cases when this annoyance depends on 
worms or on piles in the rectum, it will be found that nine- 
tenths of the remaining subjects of it come of hysterical 
families, and may be relieved by anti-hysteric treatment. If 
it is associated with i/mpotentia coram foemina the diagnosis 
of the temperament is the more easy. Here again local inter- 
ference is most pernicious. 

§ 2. Delibium Tremens, Alcoholism. 

Nobody but a whimsical doctrinaire would propose to 
relieve physical phenomena really similar in essential matters 
to such as are caused through a drug, by administering an 
additional similar stimulant. No man of plain, unclouded 
common sense does so in words ; but in act, the vulgar 
drunkard looks upon himself as performing a feat of wisdom, 
when he takes * a hair of the dog that bit him.'* What this 
does (if it is strong enough to do anything) is to stop the 
painful process of eliminating the toxic agent. It is equiva- 
lent to an attempt to soothe retching when a man has swallowed 



1 



.8i noctuma tibi noceat potatio vini, 
Hoc tu mane bibas iterwn^ etfuerit medidna, 
* If overnight's debauch doe« hurtful prove, 
A glass next morning will your pains remoro.' 

Sanctorius. 
T 



322 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

an otince of landannm. The retching may be soothed certainly, 
and by an additional dose of the laudanum itself ; but the 
BufTerer is all the worse in the end. 

As a remedy for drunkenness some have employed the 
agency, supposed to be antagonistic to alcohol, of sulphuric 
ether. It has been useful in dead-drunkenness (coma), and 
those who have indulged in secret will sometimes steady 
themselves and cover the airy evidence of their brandy dram 
with an odour which hopes to pass as an article of materia 
medica. I suspect the proceeding differs in no wise from that 
above named. The safest and quickest, though not the plea- 
santest, cures for the remorse of a guilty stomach, are patience 
and diluents. Let the sick man, if he still on principle adheres 
to his ' hair,' make it as little a one as possible, and drowned, 
as completely as possible, in the antagonistic fluid, water ; and 
let the patience be seasoned with repentance ; and then he may 
calculate safely on being no worse in the end for his temporary 
folly. In this case what happens, probably, is a retention of 
effete matters, especially in the nervous tissue, proportionally 
greater than what is experienced by the moderate in the ratio 
of the amount of alcohol held in the body at once — a retention 
followed by a copious evacuation, not only of the retained 
matters, but of the results of an increase in destructive assimi- 
lation. Hence a feeling, not of satisfaction, as when retained 
effete matters are got rid of by a timely purge, but of painful 
exhaustion. The body is actually lighter, as noticed by 
Sanctorius, but from weariness, feels heavier. After the 
evacuation has gradually ceased, there is no reason to doubt 
that the body quite recovers itself, for temporary functional 
disturbances, when time is allowed for full completion of 
the crisis, leave no organic traces, but pass like a cloud over 
a tiel^f com. 

Sot that the occasional drunkard if he also takes an oc- 
casional bout of penitence and temperance, probably does not 
shorten his days. But that he thereby lengthens them or 
gladdens them, is a foolish and dangerous fancy ^introduced by 



ALCOHOLISM. 323 

the Italian physiologist above qnoted, who argaed from some 
observations on himself that they who live a regular life miss 
the advantages secured by others who commit a debauch every 
three or four weeks. The fallacy of this has been already de- 
monstrated as regards the body, and one can hardly imag^e 
anyone to contend that it is beneficial to the mind. The 
monotonous dulncss to which the habits of some of our half 
educated classes condemn their families is no doubt a tempta- 
tion to try drink as a change ; but as far as I can see, the in- 
dulgers are all the duller afterwards, and their wits instead of 
being enlivened are muddier than ever during the reaction. 
Some are even made melancholy during the primary action of 
the alcohol. Besides this, there are multitudes of modes of 
mental relaxation of a wholesome character, which really do 
what alcohol pretends to do, that is, forcibly instil a fresh 
line of thought and relieve the wear of continuons boredom. 
Dramatic entertainments, either on stage, platform, or pulpit, 
afford the readiest resource ; but of course any hobby in which 
the patient may himself act a part, is much more valuable. 
In many cases some employment which involves' athletic 
exercise, such as volunteering, is very useful ; and if a patient 
can once be interested in cricket or football, he ceases to be a 
patient. All these are much healthier stimulants than alcohol ; 
and, moreover, whatever sanatory merits intoxication might 
have, the moral objections to it would outweigh them all, and 
in spite of the authority of Sanctorius and our gratitude to 
him as a physiologist, I hope I shall never again hear anyone 
advised to get drunk for the good of his health. 

Delirivm Ehrietatis, * mad drunkenness,* is the systematic 
name given to a form of intoxication, whose peculiarity de- 
pends on the diathesis or temperament of the sufferer's brain. 
While most grow stupid, quarrelsome, or maudlin under drink 
some (with probably a latent taint of insanity in them) have 
a dangerous tendency to grow furious, and to have delusions 
which still further excite their fury. The affection is, in fact, 
a sort of mania, exhibited only during the presence of alcohol 

T 2 



324 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

in tho blood. Indeed in Dr. Darwin's days, it was apparently 
considered tme mania ; and as bleeding was nsnal in mania 
then, it was practised for delirium ehrietatis also, thongh not 
with the approbation of that far-sighted physician, who, in 
this and many other things, was mnch in advance of his gene- 
ration. He says * venesection I believe sometimes destroys 
those who would otherwise have recovered in a few honrs.' * 
He recommends emetics and watery liquids, which are anta- 
gonistic to alcohol, and therefore I presume he would join me 
in classing this among the diseases where alcohol is to be 
avoided. It is important to distinguish it from madness, in 
which alcohol is sometimes useful, as will be afterwards 
noticed. A few hours will certify the diagnosis, as delirium 
ehrietatis is soon recovered from, unless the patient be a constant 
tippler. 

Delirium Tremens — or ' the horrors ' — is the familiar and 
distinct form of disease of the nervous system arising from 
the long-continued deleterious influence of alcohol on health. 
Its pathology has already (p. 131, &c.) been assigned to an 
arrest of the renewal of the tissues, especially those which con- 
tain phosphorus ; an arrest found by experiment when even 
small quantities of alcohol are ingested, and apparently directly 
proportioned to the continuousness of the ingestion. Ifc is 
distinct from delirium ehrietatis, not only in its symptoms, 
which are too well known to need repetition, but in the fact 
that these symptoms seldom, if ever, follow immediately on 
an unusual excess. It is true that a man may be mad- drunk, 
and after a time drivel off into the horrors, if he is an habitual 
dram-drinker ; but he does not, as a rule, get struck with the 
horrors during his debauch. Indeed, this form of disease, as 
often as not, is the consequence of a sudden omission of the 
customary stimulant. It is on the ground of this last-named 
fact, apparently, that some practitioners have thought it best 
to continue the use of alcohol, while the patient is still raving 

* Zoonomiaf ii. 1, 7i 3. 



ALCOHOLISM. 325 

wid trembling from its efifects. I do not understand them to 

• suppose that they are acting on any homcBopathic principle : 
"' they aim only at fending oflf the danger of the excessive crisis 

"by restoring that condition of alcoholic saturation the patient 
^ enjoyed previously, and during which he did not fall into 

• delirium tremens. I cannot agree with those practitioners. 

• Truely enough the raving, and the terror, and the trembling, 
'^ and the sweating, and the awfal chaos of dreaming and 

■ "wakefulness, in which the poor wretch is plunged, are made 

■ somewhat more tolerable by the dose — the pains are palliated. 
" Nevertheless, there is a higher aim of treatment than pallia- 
' tion of pain; the danger to life does not depend on these 
' symptoms, but on the suspension of the controlling functions 
> - of the brain : and to that suspension and danger each addi- 
I tional drop of alcohol must contribute its share. I feel sure 

that life is risked by the alcoholic treatment of delirium 
tremens ; and the risk to life is in this disease especially the 
paramount connderation. For the patient has brought it on 
himself by his own fault, and so long as he does not die I am 
Tery little anxious to spare him the pains and penalties of his 
self-indulgence, which pains and penalties may perhaps con- 
tribute useful lessons of future conduct. 

My own plan of treatment has been to cut off the supply 
of alcohol — at once, and, so far as my power extends, for 
ever. Where there is no vomiting, I give a mustard emetic ; 
and then a purgative enema. If the patient is quiet enough, 
the vital temperature, lowered by the alcohol, should be 
kept up by a warm bath, or at least by hot ablutions. And 
fresh material for new tissue, with assistance in getting rid of 
effete tissue, should be assiduously furnished in the shape of 
meat and water united, as beef-tea with the pounded beef in 
it. A sift of pepsine mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, 
will make it spicy for the jaded stomach, and promote its 
digestion. The addition of pepsine is especially desirable if in 
consequence of vomiting the food has to be taken by enema. 
(See recipe for the enema, p. 265.) 



326 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

It will be Been tliat the intention of the above-mentioned 
treatment is to evacuate the alcohol, and to counteract its 
suspensory influence on the vital warmth and on the assimila- 
tion and renewal of the nervous tissue. 

There is one other highly iu^portant measure, which is 
rendered needful by the reduced power of the nervous system 
during its fanctional arrest. The functions that depend upon 
it must be spared work. Complete quiet, and shielding from 
whatever can excite the n\ind, is important, not only during 
the disease but during convalescence, lest a relapse should 
occur. The excitement may be so mild as scarcely to occur 
to us as a risk ; yet by the frail machinery and unfed tissues it 
cannot be borne. I will quote an example from my note-book. 
An earnest young curate who came under my care for delirium 
tremens, contracted by drinking bad brandy to support him 
in his daily ministration to a large country parish, had got so 
well again that I consented to his breaking the intolerable 
idleness of a Sunday in London, by hearing a famous preacher. 
During the night (to my shame) he had a relapse, and 
acknowledged that the cause was the contagious enthusiasm 
of the orator. Another case is strongly impressed on my 
memory by being the only young female patient I have lost 
by delirium tremens. She was an upper housemaid at a large 
hotel, and had been long in the habit of secret drinking 
without discovery, as was proved by the great store of empty 
brandy bottles found in her boxes. On being falsely accused 
of theft, she suddenly broke down into delirium tremens and 
died in two days. The weakness of the nerve tissue which 
gives way under such moderate pressure as it could easily 
resist in health, is explained by the arrest of its vitality 
indicated by the non-excretion of phosphates during the after 
effects of alcoholic anaesthesia, as before described. We 
must not forget to allow for it in the treatment of patients. 

It is rather beyond the scope of the subject in hand to 
speak of the influence of other ansBsthetics in disease ; yet I 
cannot pass on without saying that if an ordinary dose of 



AGUE AND INTERMITTENTS. 327 

opium or its alkaloids, or of hydrate of chloral, gives a patient 
a few hours' sleep, he seems to me none the worse for it. But 
is is most dangerous to look upon them as specific, and to 
administer them in continuous reprises till sleep follows, or in 
the enormous doses that have been employed by some practi- 
tioners. The reason for those quantities being tolerated is 
that absorption has been arrested, and that they have passed 
away harmlessly. But supposing that absorption should be 
suddenly restored, the toxic dose can hardly fail to cause 
sudden death. No advantage is gained, and a great risk is in- 
curred.^ 

In chronic alcoholism I allow the same argument to hold 
good. I have never found harm to arise fitx)m leaving off 
alcohol altogether and at once. I am not prepared to deny 
that delirium tremens may have been the result, in some 
cases, of such precipitation, but it has not happened in my 
experience ; and I should be ready, if it did happen, still to 
treat it in a rational way, confident that the patient, in spite 
of the accident, was still gaining a positive advantage by ab- 
stinence. 

§ 3. Ague and Intermittents. 

In ague, alcohol should not be spared as an article of diet ; 
and taken more freely than usual it contributes to lengthening 
the interval aiifi shortening the paroxysms, converting quotidian 
into tertian, and curing tertian altogether. And, in brow- 

' It is surprising to find such a generally judicious physician (Dr. Todd) 
an advocate of the homoeopathic treatment of alcoholic poisoning^. In the last 
of his Clinical Lectures on certain Acute Diseases (one on the therapeutical 
effects of alcohol) he commends the free administration of wine to a child 
of three years old, who was dying from convulsions and hemiplegia in con- 
sequence of having swallowed a large quantity of gin, and regrets that brandy 
had not also been poured in by the rectum. He relates also speciihens of 
delirium tremens similarly managed, but their result cannot be said to 
justify the use of brandy except to a most bigoted adherent. He himself 
does not propose to act in the same way in respect of other articles of the 
materia medica. 



328 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

ague, nearalgia, inconstant sciatica, and other inteimittent 
diseases of similar nature, it is sometimes equally efficacious. 
But, given during the paroxysms I have not found so much 
benefit — ^perhaps it is not absorbed. 

In ague the combination in which alcohol is offered is of 
considerable importance. The most generous red wines should 
be used, and the distance at which their bouquet may be smelt 
may be taken as a rough test of their utility. I remember 
learning a lesson on this point from a most unscientific source. 
I was chatting in the market-place at Dijon with a farmer's 
wife, when she incidentally mentioned that her husband was a 
great sufferer from ague, and was quite tired of swallowing 
quinine. I advised her to take home a good supply of Bur- 
gundy in her market-basket, and begged to contribute the few 
francs I had in my pocket. She tripped straight off to a 
grand wine-merchant's office ; but instead of comiug out fully 
laden, she bore only two bottles, to the price of which she had 
contributed out of her own purse. It was of a vintage such 
as is allowed to trickle slowly over the tongue at the table of 
a prince, and I promptly called her a prodigal. * No, no,* said 
she, ' I am not ; a mouthful of this is worth to a sick man 
a bucket of commoner wine ' — ^and yet the common wine 
of Dijon is not to be sneered at. She was quite right ; there 
is no wine like Burgundy for ague, and the price (provided 
the merchant be honest) is a direct measure of its medicinal 
value. 

§ 4. Other Diseases of the Nervous System. 

Alcohol has been used with great advantage in Sunstroke. 
Dr. Maclean (in his article on the subject in Reynolds' system 
of Medicine) strongly commends the employment of Warhtirg's 
Tincture, the only known ingredient in which is alcohol, and 
in addition a judicious quantity of dietetic stimulants. The 
treatment advocated by this gentleman does not seem to have 
yet taken hold of the Anglo-Indian medical mind, for the 



SUNSTEOKE. NEURALGIA. 329 

author speaks of venesection still being employed on a large 
and fatal scale quite recently. So that numerical evidence of 
success cannot be furnished. I should expect it when col- 
lected to be decisive ; for there are reported in sunstroke 
several most important symptoms which connect its pathology 
with that of other morbid states benefited by alcohol, viz., a 
copious excretion of solids in the urine, a high temperature of 
blood, delirium, weakness of the sphincters, trembling of the 
muscles, and death by syncope or coma. 

I have never had a case of genuine sunstroke under my 
care, the best imitation of one which this cloud-kerchiefed 
climate has afforded me, having been caused by long sitting 
at a desk with a bald head close to an Argand gas-burner. 
But if ever I were to practise in a hot climate, I should un- 
hesitatingly adopt Dr. Maclean's treatment, both as to the use 
of ice and of alcohol. 

In ccmcussiwi of the hram from accident, stimulants are 
usually administered before the arrival of a surgeon, and no 
injurious consequences appear to follow. And blows on the 
head which happen to revellers produce as a rule much less 
cerebral lesion afterwards than is expected from their violence. 
The hint should not be lost, especially since some of the symp- 
toms of severe jar to the brain-tissue much resemble those 
recorded as produced by sunstroke ; indeed, so closely as to 
have suggested the insertion of this paragraph in its present 
place. 

Neuralgia is often decidedly benefited by alcohol, as has 
been already said. Taken dietetically at meals it involves no 
risk of tempting the patient to intemperate indulgence ; and 
if good generous wine be the vehicle, a very moderate quantity 
often suffices. Spirits are not nearly so effectual, and require 
to be employed in larger doses. 

But this is not all that the sufferer asks ; he wants to 
know if he may not have recourse to the remedy when his 
agonies are upon him ; for neuralgia is not like ague, and is 
relieved in an unmistakable manner by alcohol during the 



330 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

paroxysm. It is hard to refuse, and tinless the patient snr- 
passes the average in folly, I do not re^se. Bat at the same 
time I give this caution — ^that the intended dose should be 
fixed upon, and not exceeded even if the pain remain as severe 
as ever. The chief benefit is by no means immediate, bnt 
consists principally in shortening the paroxysm. An intimate 
friend of mine with an * Irritable stump,' often brought on 
(like Nelson's) by cold or mental annoyance, on the invasion 
of the spasmodic movements takes half a tumbler of very hot 
spiced port (bishop) or of stiff whisky toddy, and then waits 
patiently till the trouble ceases. This it usually does in one 
or two, instead of lasting twenty-four, hours. But whatever 
happens, he strongly advises that the stimulant should not be 
repeated. 

Hypochondriasis is too generally a constitutional and here- 
ditary complaint to be a good test of the virtue of any remedy. 
The few hypochondriacs in whom I have witnessed any im- 
provement have been persons who had been living a dull 
abstemious life, and have been persuaded on sanatory grounds 
to indulge the palate and the fancy from time to time with 
unwonted liberality. It is very possible that Sanctorius' 
monthly excess might be a sanatory measure here, though one 
is loth to give advice which is capable of misinterpretation. 
But the daily and habitual use of alcohol in hypochondriasis is 
worse than useless ; in fact, deleterious. I have known several 
cases receive much benefit from entirely leaving it oflT. 

There is a peculiar form of Hypochondriasis which arises 
from eating too little vegetables and too much meat. It is 
distinguished by the high specific gravity of the urine (1*025 
to 1*035) dependent on the presence of urea alone without 
sugar. There is in these cases often a remarkable lassitude 
and apparent paralysis of the limbs suddenly occurring after 
exertion. Sometimes there is emaciation. Both these 
symptoms usnally lead the patient and his friends to attribute 
the morbid state to insufficient nutrition, and to increase more 
and more the proportion of meat in spite of the aggravation 



INSANITY. 351 

of the ailment. A rapid cure attends the diminntion of the 
meat meals to one daily, and the supplying their place with 
plenty of porridge and green vegetables. 

In mania, melancholia, and dementia the most recent 
experience seems nnanimons in recommending alcohol. Dr. 
Maudsley makes no distinction between them in speaking of 
the therapeutics of insanity ; and indeed seems to proportion 
the strength of the liquor to the violence of the disease. He 
speaks of * wine ' as a prophylactic against madness in general, 
and * brandy ' as a remedy in maniacal excitement. I cannot 
find, as I should have liked, any warning bearing on cases 
which can be traced to drunkenness in the individual affected, 
though it can hardly be doubted that such do exist, and require 
special management. Even if the sequence of causation have 
been reversed, and the intemperance be the consequence of the 
madness, the association of the two must surely modify the 
treatment. It may be that Dr. Maudsley approves of the 
homoeopathic therapeusis of alcoholism, and his evidence to its 
prudence would be very valuable ; but it should be distinctly 
and boldly expressed. 

Leaving this branch of the question open, it may be freely 
granted that his sketch of the current practice in curable dis- 
orders of the intellect is correct, and his confidence in its success 
is not misplaced. But here, as in health, I would limit the 
quantity, as a rule, to that which suits the stomach best and 
increases the appetite. 

The advantage of an ample and nutritious diet in insanity 
is daily more and more forcing itself upon the proprietors of 
lunatic asyloms, though their interest of course would tempt 
them to an opposite creed. It is good economy in the end to 
feed highly even pauper lunatics, unused as they may have 
been to such treatment ; for by such means cures are effected, 
and the country relieved of the charge. 



332 DIET IN SICKNESS. 



Harmless Sleejping'draught for Nervous Insomnia, 

To a tnmbler of soar cnrds and whey add a full teaspoon- 
ful of carbonate of soda, or as much more as is required to 
make it alkaline. Sweeten it with sugar or treacle, and grate 
some nutmeg on the top. It may be taken cold, but is best 
hot. 



333 



CHAPTER VIII. 

SCROFULA, RICKETS, AND CONSUMPTION. 

Section I. 

Scrofula is indnbitably an hereditary disease ; and some obser- 
vations incline one to the suspicion that the development of the 
ancestral stain is more common when it is on the maternal side 
than when it is derived from the father. A faulty early nutri- 
tion would seem to have as much influence in drawing it out, 
as is exerted by the source of the vital spark itself. For this 
reason a mother who is conscious of scrofula in her family, 
even should she never have been herself afflicted, should deny 
herself the privilege of suckling her infants ; and a healthy 
irreproachable wetnurse should be got to supply her place. On 
the other hand, when it is from the father's side that danger 
is feared, it is peculiarly incumbent on her to play her impor- 
tant part with assiduity, and to protract the time of lactation 
to its full period, observing accurately the suggestion made in 
the first chapter of the Second Part of this volume. I cannot 
too strongly urge upon all the duty of impressing this upon 
both rich and poor patients. 

The nursing mother will act wisely also if she takes after 
her meals small doses of the Syrup of the Phosphates, or Par- 
rish's Chemical Food. 

Lactation ended, the child's diet should be arranged so as 
to contain a rather larger proportion of animal food than 
recommended for ordinary nurseries, and the instinct for a 
carnivorous nutriment should be encouraged, or at least not 



334 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

thwarted. Warm clothing, irnich snnlight, frequent exercise 
in the open air, and an annual breath of sea air, will power- 
fully aid in keeping oflf the dreaded disease . 

The * weariness to the flesh * induced by over much study 
must be sedulously prevented. It spoils the appetite and di- 
gestion, so essential to the object of our care. 

The cold plunge bath, well ventilated rooms, moderation in 
the pursuits of pleasure and ambition, and a virtuous life, will 
usually carry our patients safely up to manhood and woman- 
hood, and after that they may be considered safe. 

Supposing the tendency is so strong that in spite of these 
precautions the disease appears, I do then think drugs are 
usefttl, but chiefly those which have the nearest relation to ali- 
ments, such as iron, the phosphates, cod-liver oil. Their effect 
on the appetite must be carefully watched ; and the end must 
not be sacrificed to the means — ^if they spoil the appetite they 
must be left off* immediately. 

In this case also, I think alcohol is of service, employed 
with the same watchfulness as articles of the pharmacopoeia. 

Section II. 

Rickets (RacMiis) is distinguished from scrofula by being 
very rarely, if ever, hereditary. It consists in a softening of 
the bones, especially of the vertebrae, in children who do not 
absorb enough bone-building materials in their food. I think 
I cannot do better herp than quote the words of Dr. Trousseau, 
who, with his usual happiness of expression, has put before 
the world the striking results of M. Jules Guerin's re- 
searches : — 

* Of all causes, that most sure to produce rickets is improper 
food. 

* In his first works M. Jules Guerin had adopted the 
idea generally admitted that rickets and scrofala are occasioned 
through deficient feeding ; and by that term according to vul- 
gar prejudice was meant suckling carried on too long. But 



EICKETS. 335 

liis observation taught him soon that the direct converse of 
this proposition was tme, and that the babies who became 
rickety were not those who had been kept too long at the 
breast, but those on the contrary who had been prematurely 
weaned. In fact, it appeared to be true enough that under 
the influence of an insufficient supply of proper food, the malady 
developed itself; but by proper food was to be understood 
something different from what was commonly meant. Experi- 
ments tried upon animals made the question quite clear. In 
these experiments M. Jules Gu6rin set himself to find out if 
it were feasible to produce rachitis at will. He took a number 
of puppies in equal condition ; and having let them suckle for 
a time, he weaned suddenly half the lot and fed them on raw 
meat, a diet which at first sight would seem the most suitable 
for carnivorous animals. Nevertheless, after a short time, those 
who continued to take the mother's milk had grown strong 
and hearty, whilst those who had been weaned on an appa- 
rently more substantial diet pined, and were taken with 
vomiting ; then their limbs bent, and at the end of four or five 
months the poor little beasts showed all the symptoms of con- 
firmed rickets. From these experiments we must conclude 
with M. Jules Guerin that the rachitis depended in great 
measure on the derangements of nutrition which claimed 
improper diet as their cause. A diet which is taken to at a 
wrong season may fairly be called improper. For carnivora, 
it is flesh before the age of suckling has passed; for her- 
bivora (and an experiment bearing on the point has been made 
on pigs) it is vegetable feeding, given to them too soon, when 
they ought to be still at the teat. In the human race the same 
thing happens. Rickets is never so common as it is in babies 
weaned ere the topthing is forward enough, and brought up on 
pap, vegetables, or even meat.' ^ It would be waste of time to 
point the moral of these valuable sentences. 

The daily addition to the dietary of a small quantity of the 
phosphatic salts is still more indicated here than in scrofula. 

' Trousseau, Clmique Medicalc, vol, iii. p. 484, 3me ed. 



336 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

But still nothiog can take the place of milk, an article of 
diet in which our labouring population, both in town and coun- 
try, is sadly deficient. I have no fault to find with coal clubs 
and clothing clubs, but I am sure that as a preserver of infan- 
tile health a * cow club * is worth them all. Even the small 
weekly contribution, so difficult to extract from our reckless 
race, can be dispensed with, by arranging the price paid on 
delivery, so as to cover keep, insurance, contract for veterinary 
attendance, and replacement of superannuated animals. Chari- 
table help is most valuable when it takes upon itself the duty 
of advice and superintendence. But still, oh. Lady Bountiful, 
do not let your spare and skim milk go to the store pig, when 
there are half-a-dozen children growing np bow-legged and 
crooked within a mile of your lodge-gate for lack of it. Do 
not give it, but bestow the much greater boon of selling it — 
as low as you like, but still sell it, and it will be much more 
sought after, and will add many a straight-built labourer to 
the population. 

Section ni. 

Consv/mption, — Since the introduction into our materia 
medica of Cod-liver oil by Dr. Bardsley of Manchester, the pro- 
fession has been growing gradually, but surely, convinced of 
the all-importance of the dietetic treatment of pulmonary con- 
sumption. Cod-liver oil is a typical aliment, representing 
what is the fittest of all known substances to supply the defi- 
ciency that constitutes the disease. To use the language of 
microscopic physiology, *the basis of molecular growth* is 
poisoned, so that instead of gland, or elastic or areolar tissue, or 
bloodvessel, or epithelium, &c., fit for their various duties, being 
formed, only a useless cheesy substance is the product of nutri- 
tion. The due powers of life are lacking in it. We call it 
* tubercle,' and look upon it, if we are thoughtful people, as an 
infant tissue strangled in its cradle. To save then the parts 
threatened with tubercle, we must anticipate the formation of 
the imperfect matter by supplying a groundwork for perfect 



CONSUMPTION, 337 

tissue. This groxuidwork is laid by freshly assimilated 
oleaginoTis snbstance; oleaginoiis substance is what is fur- 
nished by nature for the primary growth and nutrition of all 
the higher tissue of animal bodies ; and indeed many physiolo- 
gists assert that without it there is no growth ; so that in 
administering it we are closely imitating the wisest teacher of 
medicine, mother Nature. 

The reason, then, for giving cod-liver oil is to counteract 
the tendency to form morbid solids by supplying the most 
suitable material for healthy soHds, in short, by overcoming 
evil with good. This is a much higher aim than the mere 
replacement of the plumpness of flesh whose waste gives the 
name to the disorder. The object is not so much to cure 
emaciation, as to cure the cause of the emaciation. Very 
necessary it is to understand this ; for not a few tuberculous 
and many tuberculously inclined patients are well furnished 
with fat, and some are even corpulent ; and they will demur 
to the prescription of our remedy, if they are allowed to re- 
tain the dominant idea that all it can do is to fatten. Young 
women, especially, of consumptive famiUes will often object to 
the risk of losing the elegant slimness of youth, and insist 
that they are as plump and round as they ought to be. What 
they say may very likely be true ; but yet their store of fat 
can only keep up the temperature of the body, and cannot be 
used again for nutrition. For the purpose of nutrition, 
recently assimilated fat is requisite; and thus tuberculosis 
iJ^y go on unchecked for lack of it, even in a corpulent 
person, since his store of fat is not available for digestive 
purposes. 

At present cod-liver oil is the most readily assimilated fat 
we know of : and so to it all other means of treating this 
class of diseases have a reference. Some substances ground 
their claims for notice on being substitutes for it, and drugs 
of various kinds act beneficially by preparing the stomach to 
digest it ; but anything which does not look to it for a cha- 
racter is of only accidental utility. 

z 



S38 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

I heaiiilj wish that some of the efficient snbstitiites for 
fish-oil were more agreeable to the palate; for it mnst be 
confessed that the taste and smell are a serioos impediment to 
its employment. Snet is apparently the best ; in milk saet is 
to some persons not repugnant, and its digestibiliiy is in- 
creased by its being made into an emnlsion with one of the 
gastric solvents, to be obtained in the shops under the name 
of 'Pancreatio emnlsion.'^ Milk, by itself, comes next in 
▼alue, and a milk diet has from the earliest times been re- 
commended in advanced phthisis. Bnt the large quantify 
required to be swallowed often deranges the stomach and 
produces repugnance. So that in reconmiending it to a 
patient it is necessary to warn him of this difficulty, and 
take example by our master Hippocrates, who, in advising 
a consumptive to drink a large quart jug (rpucorvXov 
tfvXu-a -^) of mare's milk the first thing every morning, adds 
significantly ' if he can.' 

Devonshire cream has been used as a substitute, but I 
cannot say it has proved in my hands an efficient one. If 
taken in sufficiently large quantities to be of service, it is apt 
to exercise a purgative exH^ion. 

For my part, I think it is wisest to try and get habituated 
to the fish-oil, adopting some of the various little devices 
which are used to diminish its nauseousness. In the first 
place it is essential that the article should be the best of its 
sort, that is, as free from smell, taste, and colour as possible, 
showing its careful and recent preparation. Though they do 
not always tell their customers, the importance ^f this fresh- 
ness is well known to manu&cturers. I learnt so when pre- 
scribing it for a stranger a few years ago : her husband, who 
was present, stopped me when I was describing what cod-Hver 
oil should be, saying he knew all about that, for he made 
it, and engaged that she should have it * fresh prepared 
daily.' 

' The credit of introducing this to the profession is due to Dr. DobelL 
' Equal to two pints and a quarter. 



CONSUMPTION, 339 

Some patients will take the oil easiest in milk. Some find 
the taste covered by eating a piece of red herring, or anchovy, 
or sardine, before and after the dose. Some prefer the bitter 
aromatic of coffee to counteract the rankness ; and this fancy 
one is glad always to hear of ; for it gives an opportunity for 
recommending a bitter drag which assists powerMly in the 
assimilation of the oil. If coffee is approved of, I then advise 
the oil to be taken as a parenthesis in a mixture of quinine, or 
of strychnine, or of both together. A sip of the medicine is to 
be taken, then the oil swallowed, and washed down with the 
remainder of the draught. If there is persistent nausea after« 
wards, a few drops of hydrocyanic acid may be added each 
time. Nausea may also be avoided by taking the oil on going 
to bed. Where there is cough, sheets should be previously 
warmed, to induce sleep as soon as possible. 

But the taking of cod-liver oil is not an exemption from all 
other care. The student of the literature of the subject will 
find his faiih. claimed by two extreme parties, one of which is 
all for beef steaks and porter — in short, for as carnivorous a 
diet as possible — the other in favour of pulse and herbs, seeds 
and potatoes only. Both are as far right and as far wrong as 
it is probably possible to be. They are quite right in what 
they include, and quite wrong in what they exclude. The 
food should be as like that of health as the digestion of the 
patient will allow, that is to say, mixed and varied, liberal in 
frequency, and moderate in quantity. The whims of appetite 
should not be thwarted, nor the prejudices of theory indulged ; 
the demands of muscular exertion should be provided for by 
the starchy ingredients of the dietary, and the increased wear 
and tear of the machinery by the nitrogenous. 

The full powers of digestion should be brought into 
activity by plenty of open air and exercise within the bounds 
of weariness. And this is the reason why English patients 
are confidently advised to live during the winter months in 
more genial climes than their own. They get thus more sun- 
light and oxygen without damp But also the mere change is 

z 2 



340 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

good ; for it has been fonnd that to those living in parts of 
Britain where the atmosphere is soft and mild, as in the West, 
a colder and more bracing air, provided it be dry, is very 
often beneficial. From Cornwall the small trading vessels will 
sometimes carry a consumptive miner to pass the winter in 
Greenland ; and patients have been sent with advantage from 
snch localities as Leghorn to the exhilarating sharpness of a 
snow-clad Alpine upland. But this last plan requires great 
caution. The test of a climate suitable for a consumptive to 
winter in, is not the mean height of temperature or even the 
absence of extremes, but the number of days suitable for 
getting an appetite by air and exercise under the open sky. 
And the test of whether the patient is suitable to the cUmate 
and the climate to the patient is whether he is able to avail 
himself of this advantage. 

Much more confidently can the recommendation be given 
that the advantages of a sea-life should be &vourably pat 
before the youths of families, where there is an ancestral 
tendency to pulmonary tubercle. I do not mean that thej 
should be driven into it against their will, but that it should 
be made as attractive as possible.- The healthy state of a 
young sailor's digestive organs is the best guarantee that can 
be obtained against consumption. 

As to the use of alcohol in threatened cases, and in the 
early stages of tubercle, I have no hesitation in pronouncing 
an opinion adverse to it, except in the quantities I have re- 
commended in health, namely, such as will add to the digestive 
powers, and increase the appetite. But if the morbid matter 
has broken down, and there is either nocturnal perspiration, 
copious purulent expectoration, diarrhoea, extreme emaciation, 
or depression of spirits, wine, especially port wine, in quantity 
equal to the occasion, is often of decided use. When the 
demand for it has passed away, it should be left off. 



341 



CHAPTER IX. 

DISEASE OF THE HEABT AND BLOOD VESSELS. 

Section I. 

Ik disease of the heart the most remarkable change in respect 
of digestion is the slowness with which liquids are absorbed 
by the stomach and intestines. If much is drank at once it 
will remain a long time gurgling about, and, instead of assist- 
ing digestion, will offer an impediment and cause inconvenience. 
The reason of this is the slackening of the circulation of the 
blood, which is directly or indirectly effected by each of the 
various cardiac lesions separately. Whether the heart be too 
thick or too thin, too large or too small, whether the openings 
of valves are obstructed by warty growth, or whether their 
stretched curtains fail to control the flux and reflux of the 
current, the practical result is one, namely, that the vital 
stream becomes unnaturally sluggish. Now, it is a well-known 
law governing the passage of liquids through membranes that 
such passage is promoted by the rapid moyement, and retarded 
by the sluggish movement, of the fluid towards which the 
endosmosis is tending. It is clear, therefore, that the absorp- 
tion of drinkables from the digestive canal into the blood must 
be deficient in close proportion to the obstruction presented by 
the defective machinery of the circulation. 

The adoption of a dry diet contributes greatly to the com- 
fort of the patients now being considered. The dinner should 
never be prefaced by soup, and the drink should be taken 



342 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

only in sips daring the meal. And what is taken should not be 
cold, but at least have the chill taken off. When thirst occnrs 
between meals, the same mle of sipping should be observed. 
In this way quite a suiBciency to supply the requirements of 
the kidneys may be introduced — indeed, more is probably got 
into the blood than when larger quantities are gulped down at 
once, chilling and paralysing the absorbent powers of the 
mucous membranes. 

Independent of the inconvenience which the indigestion of 
fluids causes, it may be feared also that the distention of the 
stomach accompanying it interferes with the already laborious 
action of the heart, and aggravates the organic source of the 
malady. This is especially the case in Dilatation with Thinning 
of the heart's walls, and is least noticeable in Valvular 
Disease. 

Where Heart-disease is complicated with obesity, especially 
if the &it is accumulated in the chest, the enforcement of a 
dry diet is still further to be viewed as imperative ; inasmuch 
as it contributes powerftilly to the reduction of the hypertro- 
phied adipose tissue. 

The only symptom which may perhaps render it a doubtful 
policy is the occurrence of dropsy. Should this be very de- 
cided, it is of importance to keep the kidneys active to a 
degree that can be accomplished only by the ingestion of a 
considerable supply of watery drink. I think, however, this 
should be always followed up by purgative medicines, often 
even by mercurials. And when the necessity has ceased, the 
dry regimen should be resumed. 

The dietary of peitsons with imperfect hearts should be 
more nitrogenous than if they were sound. What we have to 
dread is the atrophic degeneration of the cardiac muscle, for 
till this degeneration occurs the original lesion is not aggra- 
vated ; and the constitution often gets so used to the state of 
mechanism of the heart that no inconvenience of any kind is 
felt. The importance of the existence or non-existence of 
valvular disease lies not so much in the injury it directly 



DISEASE OF THE HEAET AND BLOOD VESSELS. 343 

inflicts, as in the likelibood of the induction of other lesions of 
the heart. If the muscular structure remains healthy, injured 
valves do not appear capable of causing death. But very 
surely are they fatal when they are followed by dilatation or 
thickening or degeneration of the cardiac walls, with the sad 
train of dropsies, apoplexy, pulmonary haBmorrhage, Ac. 

In 2161 post-mortem examinations at St. George's Hospital 
in ten years, the cardiac valves were diseased without the 
walls of the heart being affected 113 times ; but in every case 
there were other lesions amply sufi&cient to account for death 
quite independent of the valves, such as accidents, surgical 
complaints, cancer, low fever, Ac. In one alone, where ana- 
sarca from granular kidneys was the immediate cause of 
death, could any symptom be debited to diseased valves with 
healthy heart, and that symptom was pulmonary hssmor- 
rhage.^ 

In the classes of people represented "by hospital patients, 
the probability that valvular disease will be= followed by its 
unhappy consequences is very great. When a patient thus 
affected leaves our hospital wards, we expect to see him again 
shortly, and on each fresh admission with a more severe com- 
plaint. But the same expectation must not be applied to the 
more comfortable classes of society. Persons in easy circum- 
stances have valvular lesions for years and years, perhaps 
through the greater part of a long life, and not only continue 
to live, but even fail to experience symptoms bad enough to 
consult a medical practitioner. In my volume of Clinical 
Lectures^ I gave some two dozen examples of persons found, 
when examined for insurance, to have valvular lesions, but 
who, during periods varying from 50 years downwards, had 
not in anywise suffered i^a consequence. This I attribute to 
their being independent of daily labour for daily bread — in fact, 

' Decennium Pathologicumf MS. in library of Medioo-ChirurgicalSociety, 
chap. z. sect. !• 
' Lect zxr. 

i 

■ \* 

» > 

\- 



344 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

to ease of mind and bodj. Treatment in these eases is worth 
while, for it is likely to be snooessfol. 

The renewal of the destroyed tissue being impossible, and 
equally so any mechanical compensation for the arrested 
function, it is obvious that, in the treatment of the disorganised 
yalves themselves, restorative medicine, in the strictest sense, 
must be quite at fault. But indirectly it is almost as effective 
in prolonging life as if it could put in a new valve, or make 
another muscle do duty for the resting ventricle. It may 
repair those reparable conditions which are injurious, and 
which by bringing on enlargement constitute the real danger 
in cardiac cases. The great hope, then, of warding off this 
atrophic degeneration lies in the full digestion of a generous 
diet, to keep the blood red and fluid for the continuous repair 
of the endangered muscle. 

While we bid our patients live generously, we must 
disabuse them of the notion that the advice includes a free 
allowance of alcohol. Alcohol is really the most ungenerous 
diet possible. Addiction to it impoverishes the blood, and is 
the surest road to that degeneration of the muscular ^bres 
which is so much to be feared. And in diseases of the heart 
it is especially hurtful, by quickening the beat, causing 
capillary congestion and irregular circulation, and mechani- 
cally dilating the cavities. Let the ferment'Od drink be 
limited to that quantity which increases the appetite. In a 
great many instances this may be very shortly described as 
none at all, but often also, whether irom the force of habit or 
the nature of the constitution, a sip of wine enables a sufficient 
dinner to be eaten, and to be more ^illy digested than when 
not thus assisted. Hock and champagne are the best adapted 
for the purpose, as a small quantity of these wines is inspirit- 
ing, with a minimnm of alcoholic contents, and their diuretic 
action is beneficial. 



DISEASE OP THE HEAHT AND BLOOD VESSELS. 345 



Section II. 

In an liabitnal state of a/rtericd high pressure^ or plethora, 
that is to say, when the pnlse rises but little under the fingers 
of the feeler, but is wide and heaving, and difficult to oblite- 
rate, there is considerable danger of local congestions and 
hsBmorrhage, leading sometimes to rapid results by congestive 
pneumonia and apoplexy, sometimes to Bright's disease of the 
kidneys, and sometimes relieving itself by an attack of gout. 
Combined with the mercurials and purgatives, which it is not 
the business of this volume to discuss, I feel sure that a restricted 
diet is extremely beneficial. Boiled fish once a day is the best 
animal food, and the vegetables should consist of what has 
been denominated in an earlier part of this work the ^diluent' 
class. The omission of alcohol is essential ; but whether it is 
left off gradually or with a sudden effort, must depend on the 
special cases. 

This state of high pressure seems to me to depend on a 
want of elasticity or tone in the coats of the arteries, and this 
deficient tone is caused in many cases by the contact of a 
blood loaded with those waste products of nitrogenous food 
which has been alluded to in the chapter on Gout. Still the 
prescription for the dietary in the last paragraph is not based 
on the pathological theory I have ventured to set forth, but 
a practical observation of its satisfactory result in those 
instances where it has been courageously followed. 

I use the word ' courage ' because it is so much easier to 
command than it is to obey in these cases. There is a feeling 
of weakness and of want of will for both mental and muscu- 
lar effort which the sensations persuade the patient might be 
relieved by nitrogenous food and by alcohol ; in fstct, they are 
the same sensations which in health are so relieved. It re- 
quires a most dangerous experience to convince him that 
they will be really aggravated in the end during his present 
morbid state by these coveted indulgences. It requires either 



346 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

a most dangeroiLB experience or a bold faith in the teachings 
of unbiassed reason. 

The state of high pressure in the arteries I believe to be 
in its essence functional and capable of cure ; but owing to 
the difficulties of enforcing rational treatment, it leads in 
practice to the great number of unhappy results above 
enumerated, and through them indirectly to other incurable 
diseases. 

Very different in its pathology is arterial degeneration. It 
is essentially an organic lesion, which may indeed supervene 
on the dilated condition of the tubes induced by high pressure, 
but is irretrievably chronic. We cannot hope to regain lost 
ground, and can at best look forward only to stopping as we 
are. The hardened arteries (which can be felt under the 
finger, even when we have compressed the pulse, stiff and un- 
yielding) have lost their elasticity, and the stream of blood 
strikes them with a sharp stroke, easily obliterated. The 
pressure is not usually great, the blood-wave wants fimmess 
and support ; but the tubes are so finable that they are readily 
ruptured, as in the last described disease. So that local 
haBmorrhages and their several consequences are apt to occur. 

The evil results cannot be guarded against in the same 
way as was advised for plethoric high-pressures. There is no 
excess of blood in the arteries, and the induction of a compa- 
rative condition of ansBmia would cause the circulating fluid to 
strike the weakened tube all the sharper, firom its being thin 
and watery. Moreover, the degenerated part would tend to 
further degeneration by being under-nourished. No attempt 
should be made to restrict the nitrogenous diet below that 
which has been found best in health. And presuming that 
the quantity of alcohol hitherto employed has been moderate, 
it needs only a little diminution to suit the altered circum- 
stances of work and rest adopted by the invalid. 

It is sometimes usefiil to employ small doses of digitalis 
where the heart is weak and irregular ; but the dietician should 
carefully watch its action, and if nausea follows the dose, he 



DISEASE OF THE HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS. 347 

mtist not allow it to be persisted in. The appetite is of more 
importance than the regularity of the poise. 

Iron is well borne in most cases. I wonld strongly advo- 
cate also a change from the climate of England, where degene- 
rative disease is the role and acute disease the exception, to 
Italy, where degenerative disease is the exception and acute 
disease the rule — a change, if not for life, at all events for long 
enongh to alter the constitution. Reasons have been given in 
the chapter on Gout and Rheumatism why the change should 
be especially beneficial to the assimilative organs, and it is by 
keeping the assimilative organs in good trim that we may hope 
to stop the downward progress of degenerating arteries. 



Section in. 

When the degeneration is local, it does not much affect the 
capillaries or smaller tubes, so that heBmorrhage does not 
threaten ; but there is a tendency to the formation of a pouch 
in an artery through the yielding of the sides of the tubes : — 
aneurism. The distinction of its different forms is unimpor- 
tant to our present purpose. 

Now, it is to be noticed that it is by the absence of aneu- 
rism that the peculiarity of the Mediterranean climate above 
allnded to is shown. In the statistics of Milan Hospital (Eeii- 
diconto della Beneficenza delV Ospedah Maggiore^ &c., 1862) 
I find but 4 instances of thoracic aneurism in 61,761 patients, 
or 1 in 15,440 ; whereas at St. Mary's Hospital, London, I 
find 29 in 7,819 patients, or 1 in 252. Again, at Genoa, I 
find the last published bills of mortality (for 1860, printed by 
Dr. GKovanni du Jardin) without any deaths by aneurism. 
The corresponding report for London contains 103. The dif- 
ferences are so great, that the limited range of the observation 
is unimportant, and I cannot but conclude that there is some- 
thing in the climatic influences of England favourable to, and 
something in Milan and Genoa antagonistic to, the degenera- 
tion of arteries as shown in its most formidable result. 



S48 DIET IN SIGENESSL 

Bat in the immediate treatment of anenrism once formed the 
Kienoe of diet plays a differoit part, a part different &om that 
which it phiys in anj other diseases. In them it aims at restoring 
health hj removing that which is snperflnons, or by replacing 
what is deficient, so as to bring the body directly into a state 
as near the fnll natnral state as possible. Here its intention 
more resembles that of a drag ; it makes a sacrifice to realise 
afatare advantage ; it wonld bring the blood temporarily into 
a morbid condition to accomplish a certain definite object. 

In the dietetic treatment of anenrism the object is to make 
the blood abnormally watery and fibrinous ; to explain the 
advantage of which it will be necessary to recapitnlate a little 
elementary pathology. 

By Amevrifut I mean a poach in an artery formed through 
the yielding of the sides of the tnbe. The danger is lest 
they should go on yielding, burst, and let out the life-blood. 
Therefore, if the artery be a small one, and capable of being 
spared till it is replaced by a collateral circulation, mechanical 
saigeiT can save life by tying, compressing, obliterating it, 
or by removing the limb where it is situated. In the largest 
arteries such trenchant treatment is obviously impossible; 
vet there are found from time to time instances of aneurism 
in even the largest arteries being rendered innocuous by a 
natural process. In patients who had died of other diseases, 
the pouch has been found plugged up, and leakage prevented 
by a firm caulk of fibrin, clotted out gradually from the blood, 
and usually adherent to the roughened or torn sides of the 
artery. This is a cured aneurism. 

Why is not this happy cure always found ? In a great 
many cases because the mouth of the pouch is so wide and 
open that the blood cannot stagnate long enough to form a 
clot. But in others also, because the fluid is so rich in non- 
ooagulating material (to wit, blood-discs) that it coagulates 
with difficulty, and under some circumstances not at all. 

In such a case — ^that is to say, in a person whose fresh 
colour, muscular development, and good digestion show h™ 



DISEASE OF THE HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS. 349 

to be healthy-blooded — if an aneurism forms, the best chances 
of restoration to safety are to be sought in making the circu- 
lating liquid — first, unnaturally stagnant, and secondly, un- 
naturally coagulable by excess of fibrin and water. 

These objects can be attained by keeping the patient in 
bed and starving him. Thus is produced an artificial 
anaemia, a state of blood in which the red discs are deficient 
and the fibrin is in excess, a state in which coagulation is at 
its maximum and the force of the heart at its minimum. 
The method is commonly known as Valsalva's, and it has 
met with a sufficient measure of success to warrant a trial of 
it being made in every case where no impediments lie in the 
way. About fifteen years ago, I published a clinical lecture 
on several patients treated thus, and I concluded that * not 
merely is it the best mode, but the only honest mode, of 
treating aneurisms of the trunk vessels; because it is the 
only one we at present know consonant to reason and ex- 
perience.' * 

The most successful cases are those where the sac is in 
the descending and abdominal aorta, as that of the stone- 
mason I mentioned in the lectures just quoted. Yet others 
are not to be despaired of. In the * British Medical Journal,' 
(December 16, 1865) is published a case, by Dr. Waters of 
Liverpool, of thoracic aneurism successfully treated by rest 
and low diet, and Mr. Tufnell of Dublin has advocated its use 
in those cases of aneurism which would come under the care 
of a surgeon. 

Bread and water, or pudding and water, as advised by 
Valsalva, and used as punishment diet at prisons, is the most 
effective. Valsalva gave as little as half a pound of pudding 
in the morning, and half a pound in the evening, till the pul- 
sation of the tumour was arrested, and then he gradually in- 
creased the quantity till ordinary diet was resujned, carefully 
watching against a relapse, however, during this latter process. 

' Lectures, Chiefiy dinioal, lect xziv. 



S50 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

And I agree that it is better at onoe to try the experiment 
with extreme rigour, and give it np if necessity will haye it so, 
than to shiver and Yacillate on the brink of the serious struggle 
for life, perhaps too late to be of use. 

The confinement to bed must be absolute. 

To the future conduct of those who have suffered from 
aneurism, and in whom a recurrence of the disease is, of course, 
to be feared, it is obvious that the principles above advocated 
do not apply. The formation of an aneurismal sac is a 
degenerative process ; and starvation, bleeding, and confine- 
ment to bed would be most deleterious, as tending to induce 
further debility and d^eneration. The anesmic dietary is for 
the sole purpose of bringing about the formation of a dot, and 
the prevention of further d^eneration of the arteries must 
follow an opposite path. Iron, nutritious food, good dry air, 
moderate exerciae, and suitable clothing, as before advised, 
should be peraeveringly adhered to for the rest of the patient's 
life. 

Section IV. 

Piles, and hannorrhoidal conditions of the rectum which 
result in producing them, though the actual tumour be not 
developed, are considerably affected by diet, not so much 
because of their nature, as because of the part where they are 
situated being the termination of the alimentary canal. They 
are essentiaUy dilatations of the veins, and they have the same 
nature as vaiix in the 1^ or elsewhere; the conditions of 
heredity are the same ; both diseases reappear in the same 
family and interchange successions. Varicose veins are 
most frequently found in the underfed. But of piles the com- 
monest immediate cause is luxurious living, not so much 
excess, which to a certain extent cures itself as an habitual 
richness of diet, just within the bounds of excess, and therefore 
long continued. The constant repletion of the portal veins 
with loaded blood, makes them (unprotected as they are by 
valves) weigh heavily on the venous plexuses of the lower 



DISEASE OF THE HEART AND BLOOD VESSELS. 351 

bowel, and with, or even without, an hereditary tendency these 
yenous pleiaseg readily dilate and a h«inorrlioidal condition is 
founded. 

This is the most useful time for the dietician to interfere. 
The simplest expedient is to cut off one meal, any one the 
patient chooses, leaving the hours of the others the same as 
before. Thus is gained a period of repose for the oppressed 
veins. During this interval it is useful to give the rectum a 
tonic shock by dashing cold water against the external orifice 
or having a plunge into open water, at the same time not 
omitting active athletic exercise. Jumping is especially 
beneficial. As the healthy appetite for plain food returns, 
the local disease is less troublesome : and this healthy appetite 
is encouraged by muscular exertion. If rest for the limbs is 
wanted, lying on one side rather over to the face is a better 
position than sitting ; and the same should be adopted at 
night. The bed should be hard and elastic. 

Wine and beer should be left off for a season ; and when 
at first resumed, still white wines, such as Hock, Moselle, or 
Capri, should alone be drunk. Of malt liquors stout should 
be avoided, and light bitter draught ale selected with caution. 

A useful ingredient in the dietary is pepper, especially 
cayenne. It causes a smarting sensation during evacuation, 
followed by a bracing warmth which quickens the local circu- 
lation to great advantage. It is best eaten at dinner, and next 
morning the effect is perceived. The immediate discomfort is 
relieved by the usual cold douche directly applied, as indeed 
is most convenient. 

At this stage the disease is removable without leaving 
any traces of its existence. But it is not so when the stag- 
nant blood has once formed firm nodules by coagulation. 
These may shrink up, indeed, so as to be no inconvenience ; 
but they are always liable to fill again, and they throw the 
mucous membrane into roughnesses and folds, even when empty, 
so that it is necessary to continue always such preventive 
xneasures as will keep the nuisance asleep. The dietary should 



S52 DIET IN 8IGE37ES8. 

inclnde a mncli larger proportioii of vegetables, especiallj of 
green anti-scorbatic and dfluent vegetables (see pages 41 and 
42), than is nsnaL Sweet oil and fresh bacon maj be nsed to 
keep the contents of the abdomen from concreting into hard 
Inmps, and brown bread and brown bread biscuits are often 
f onnd of essential service. 

During an inflammatory condition pepper, and aloes, and 
other articles which give rise to local smarting will not be 
tolerated, bat they seem to me to be of service in the end for 
all that. 

Let it be understood that this dietetic treatment is not in 
any way to supersede the recurrence to lenitive drugs, which 
prevent the concretion into irregular lumps of the contents of 
the bowel, but rather to assist them. And in advanced cases 
where it has been thoroughly tried without the effect of bring, 
ing the local lesion into a permanently dormant state, I think 
recourse may even be had to the surgical operation of 
removal. 

In concluding this little volume I will make the last para- 
graph into a general proposition, and beg that no mistake may 
be made as to the object of the third part, which treats of the 
dietetics of disease more systematically than is usual in works 
of this sort, whilst it omits aU mention of pharmacopoeal 
agents, except so far as they bear on the food question. The 
reader must not suppose that this is done from any scepticism 
as to the value of drugs in the treatment of disease, or in a 
hope of replacing them by diet. It is rather a &ith in their 
potency which restrains my pen, and a feeling that we are just 
now going through a crisis in our knowledge of their action 
in which direct experiment is reftimishing the worn places in 
bare observation. 

I also contend that the intention of food should be quite 
different from that of medical drugs, and that to confound the 
two must lead to errors in practice. The intention of food is 
to bring the worn and &illng tissues into a more active state 



DISEASE OF THE HEART AND BLOOD-VESSELS. 353 

by adding the elements of their STibstance ; which is done 
directly by nutriment containing these elements, indirectly by 
accessory food (such as alcohol, spices, flavourings) promotive of 
the assimilation of the former. On the other hand medicines 
have no thought of adding the means of life to the body ; 
they aim at restoring the balance of existing vital processes, 
usually by reducing the force of normal processes to the 
level of others enfeebled by disease. When fchey so far 
reduce the normal processes as to derange the balance they 
are called poisons. Such is the logical classification according 
to their uses of substances designed for absorption into the 
body, and I am isure it must never be lost sight of as a 
principle of selection in therapeutics. 

Let it be noticed that it is the intention, which places a 
substance in one or other of these classes. Many of our most 
trustworthy agents are capable of being employed in several 
capacities, sometimes in more than one at the same time ; and 
it contributes in no small degree to success to see clearly the 
separate motives of their use in the individual instance. 
Take for example * coffee ' — it is a nutriment, though a poor 
one ; but it is a valuable accessory, making other food more 
available ; and it may also be used as a msdicine to the nerves, 
as in neuralgia or opium poisoning. * Alcohol ' is mainly an 
accessory food, but it may be also a medicine, administered 
without stint to stupify the nerve action, which a fever 
patient is too weak to bear. It may unhappily also be a 
'poison. * Olive oil ' is also a nutriment, an accessory, and a 
medicine (in constipation). * Water ' taken in the small 
quantities just enough to stay thirst, may be entirely used as a 
nutriment, supplying the blood with an essential part of its 
substance ; in the larger supply usual in daily life it is an 
accessory, enabling other articles of diet to be easier digested ; 
in copious doses it is used as a medicine by crowds upon 
crowds ; if its medicinal action is pushed too far, it is also a 
poison. * Strychnine ' is never indeed a nutri/ment to the 
human race ; but its use in some cases of indigestion may class 

A A 



354 DIET IN SICKNESS. 

it as an aceessoryy and when employed in tliat capacity, the 
medicinal effect mnst be carefully watched for and shmrned ; 
just as when we give it as a medicine we mnst guard against 
the potsaiums. And so on we might go through no small por- 
tion of the pharmacopoeia. Let these pages cause no confusion 
to be made between giving a substance as a nutriment^ an 
accessory, a medicine, or a poison, or the author will regret their 
publication. 



ALPHABETICAL INDEX. 



■•^^ 



ACC 

ACCESSOEY food, 363 
Acids in dyspepsia, 279, 284. 
Adulteration, 43, 47, 69, 68, 74, 

77, 78, 240, 246, 273 
Ague, 327 

Air, as a defence against intoxica- 
tion, 239 
Albuminuria, 303 
Alcohol, abstinence from, in gout, 290 

— different forms of, 66, 240, 244, 
267, 296, 328 

— influence of nationality in con- 
sumption of, 240 

— use of in atonic dyspepsia, 282 

consumption, 340 

fevers, 266 

intermittents, 328 

— injurious to albuminariacs, 306 

children, 160, 163, 292 

hysterics, 317 

nurses, 140 

— moral effects of, 240 

— physical effects of, 114, 231, 296, 
306, 323, 344, 363 

Alcoholism, 321 
AlkaUne drink, 272 
Almond, 42, 309 

— drink, 261 

— soup, 288 
Aneurism, 348 
Arrowroot, 66, 260 

Arterial degeneration, 234, 346 
Artichoke, 36, 307 
Artichoke, Jerusalem, 33 
Asparagus, 32, 34, 307 
Athletic training, 176, 193 
Athleticism, evils of, 292 
Atonic dyspepsia, 268, 277 



GHA 

BACON, 63, 313, 362 
Bael drink, 260 
Barley, 64 

— water, 84, 269 

Bath, douche, 286, 312, 361 

Bathing, 186, 334 

Batter pudding, 266 

Bed, lying in, 186 

Beef and hen broth, 263 

Beef-tea, 92, 264, 262, 307 

Beer, 77, 237, 244, 306, 310, 35 J 

Boils, 198 

Bottling wine, 106 

Bran tea, 282, 287 

Brain, concussion of the, 329 

Bread, 61, 309 

— brown, 283, 314, 362 

— pudding, 266, 274 

— sauce, 264 

— soup, 272 

Bright's disease of kidneys, 234, 

303 
Biscuits, 63 

— and milk, 266 
Butter, 69 
Buttermilk, 67 



CABBAGE, 32, 36, 307 
Cardoons, 36 
Carnivora, flesh of, 307 
Carrots, 33 
Caviare, 30, 62 
Celery, 40 

Cellulose, conversion into sugar, 50 
Change of air, 209 
Chanterelles, 38 



356 



INDEX. 



CHE 

Cheerfalness. 72, 124, 230, 246, 257 

Cheese, 69, 280, 307 

Chettnots, 36 

Chewing, 111, 113,115 

Chicken broth, 263 

ChUdien, diet of, 139, 149 

Chocolate, 46, 98 

Cirrhoeis from alcohol, 284 

Claret cnp, 85, 261 

Cleanliness, 38, 41, 83, 87, 99, 185, 

193 
Climate, effects of, 201, 240 {note) 

in atonic dyspepsia, 285 

in consumption, 889 

in ffout, 294 

— of Italy, 294, 347 
Clotted cream, 58, 838 
Cocoa and egg, 288 
Cod-oil, 386 

Coffee, 46, 97, 307, 353 
Colliers, 174 
Colostrom, 55 

Commercial life, diet of, 157 
Condy's wash, 261 
Constipation, 283, 311, 352 
Consumption, pulmonary. 336 
Cookery, 43, 87, 113, 162, 193 
Corpulence, reduction of, 189 
Cow-club, 336 
Crabs, 31 
Cream, 67, 307, 338 

— reckoner, 54 
Cucumber, 32, 40 
Cups, 85 
Curaijoa, 86 
Curds, 68 



DEGENERATION, arterial, 234, 
346 

— of muscular fibre, 19, 26, 27 

— from overtraining, 188 
Delirium tremens, 321 
Diabetes, 133, 306 
Diarrhoea, 194, 197, 260, 338 
Diet, dry, 341 
Digestibility, degrees of, 123 
Digestion, 107 

Digitalis, 346 

Diluents, 41, 42, 84, 121, 132, 270, 
306, 312, 323, 324, 345 



GBO 

Disease, transmission of, in meat, 
26 

in milk, 55 . 

Dress, 163, 188, 207, 308, 334 
Drags and diet, 362 
Ducks, 28, 307 
Dynamic equivalents, 1 1 



EEL broth, 264 
Egg nogg, 261 
Egg soup, 261 
Eggs, 60, 100, 102, 254 
££iotion, action of, 113 
Endosmosis, 115, 341 
Enemata, nutritive, 255, 265, 326 



FAGGOT for flavouring, 315 
Famine, 202, 223 
Fasting, 128, 224 
Fevers, 261 
Fish, 29 

— best for invalids, 280 

— sauce, 99, 286 
Flatulence, 94, 278, 286, 342 
Flavourings, 40, 87, 96, 316 

— poisonous, 74 
Flounders, 287 
Food and work, 9, 16 

— natural, of man, 3 

^ quantity of, 8, 14, 16, 122. 278 
Fraud, 43, 49,* 61, 64, 62, 66, 68, 
74, 240 (see also ' Adulteration ') 
French beans, 37, 307 
Fruit, 42, 268, 306, 307 
Fusel-oil, 78, 240 



GAME, 29 
Gardeners* diseases, 172 
Garlic, 40, 102, 194 
Geese, 28 
Gelatine, 273 
Gout, 289, 301 
— in the stomach, 299 
Grape sugar, 47, 66 
Gravel, 301 
Greediness, 164 
Grits, 64, 260 
Groceries, 43 



INDEX. 



357 



HAB 

HABIT, force of, 4 
HAm, 53 
Hartshorn drink, 273 
— jeUy,273 
Heart, disease of, 841 
Heat, 111, 178 
Hypochondriasis, 330 
Hysteria, 817 



ICE, 85, 06 
Idiot<7^ of drnnkards' children, 
285 
Infants, diet of, 139, 833, 334 
Inflammation, diet for, 267 
Insanity, 881 
Intermittent diseases, 827 
Intemperance, dangers of, 163, 240 
Iron in medicine, 81, 285, 384 
Isinpflass jelly, 273 



jtm 



KETS, 58, 308 



KIDNEYS, activity of, defence 
against alcohol, 239, 305 
— diseases of, 801 



LACTATE of soda, 806, 332 
Lead, poison of, 172 
Lemonade, 84, 259 
Leeks, 34 
Lentils, 37 
Lettuces, 41, 314 
Liebig^s food for infants, 145 
Literary life, diet of, 161 
Liver, sluggish, 277 
— use of, 132 
Linseed tea, 259 

Luncheon, 40, 153, 158, 190, 279, 
280 



MACARONI, 48, 203 
Maize, 64, 103 
Malt liquors, 77, 306, 310 
Malt tea, 265 
Mayonnaise, 286 



PHT 

Meals, 124, 129, 158, 193 
Meat, choice of, 17 

— diet in diabetes, 307 
injurious, 270 

— storing of, 96 
Medicine, definition of, 358 
Milk, 6, 54, 135, 335, 336 

— diet, 306, 308, 335, 338 

— diseased, 56 

— goats', 195 

— skim, 308 
Mineral waters, 84 
Mixed diet, 6 
Morels, 38 
Mothers, diet of, 139 
Mould, blue, 57 
Mushrooms, 37« 307 
Mustard, 53, 299 
Mutton broth, 264, 274 

— club, 21 



F:URALGIA, 329 
Noxious trades, 171 
Nurse, choice of, 257 
Nutrition, 131, 352 
Nuts, 42 



OATMEAL, 64, 260, 314 
— flummery, 314 
— tea, 275 

Obesity, 342 see Corpulence 
Old age, 216, 227 
Onions, 40, 05, 102 
on, 61, 196 
Olives, 61, 195, 307 
Oxalate of lime, 301 
Oysters, 31 



PANADO, 262 
Farrish's chemical food, 333 
Parsnips, 34 
Partridge, 29, 89, 264 
Peas and beans, 36, 37, 50, 306 
Pepper, 62, 194, 199, 286, 361 
Pepsine, 256, 265, 284 
Phosphates in medicine, 336 
— ' — urine, 303 
Physicking, 155 



358 



INDEX. 



PIG 

Picklem 52 
Pigeon, 264 
Piles. 172. 298, 360 
Plethora, 345 
Poison, irhat, 354 
Polar diet, 207, 309 
Pollutio noctnrna, 321 
Porridge, 314 
Potato. 32 

— for invalids, 266 

— surprise, 287 
Poultry, 28 
Poverty, 221, 247 
Preserved food, 96 
Professional life, diet of, 161 
Puff-ball, 38 
Purgatives, 311,326 



EAISINS, 48 
Rheumatic fever, diet in, 269 
Rheumatism, chronic, 299 
Rennet, 60, 268 
Rest, 126, 162, 169, 166, 186, 326, 

361 
Rice, 48 

— gruel, 260 

— in broth, 264 

— milk, 287 

— pudding, 266 
Rickets, 146, 334 
Riding, 187, 197, 298 
Roasting, 88 

Rose tea, 274 

Rosin, use of in wine, 195 

Rot in sheep, 20 

Rye, 64 

Rowing, 176, 177 



SAGE tea, 276 
Salad, 38, 268, 307 
Salsafy, 34 
Salting, 96 

Sauce, universal, 99 (note), 286 
Sausages, 63 
IScrofula, 333 
Seakale, 34 
Sea-sickness, 199 
Semolina, 48 
Sewing-machine workers, 172 



URI 

Shell-flsh, 31, 307 

Sleep after dinner, 125, 129 

— want of, 197, 229, 832 
Soup for poor, 92 

— meagre, 272 

— vegetable, 315 
Sour crout, 35 
Spices, 63, 96 
Spinach broth, 279, 315 
Spirituous liquors, 78, 159, 163 
Starch, conversion of, 113 
Starvation, 211, 263, 269, 345, 349 
Stomach cough, 278, 283 
Strychnine, 284, 339, 353 
Suckling, 139, 333 

Suet, 338 
Sugar, 47, 306 

— action of, in digestion, 281, 292 

— formation in body, 133, 306 
Sunstroke, 328 

Swiss condensed milk, 58, 144 



TEA, 44, 128, 172,269, 283 
Tea-tasters, 174 
Teeth, 3, llfi, 162 
Teething, 146 
Temperance societies, 245 
Temperature, calculation of, 91 
— dangerously high, 271 
— influence of, in digestion. 111, 

174 
Terrapin, 307 
Thirst, 186, 307, 309 
Toast and water, 84 
Tomatoes, 39, 40, 314 
Training (see ' Athletic training ') 
Travelling, hints about, 193 
Treacle, 47 
Trichina, 24 
Tripe, 123 
Truffles, 38 
Tubercles, softening of, arrested by 

alcohol, 340 
Turkeys, 28. 89 
Turtle, 30, 307 



u 



RIC acid, 301 



INDEX. 



359 



VAR 

VAEIETY, 128, 146, 151, 172, 
279, 296 
Vegetable food, uses of, 31,40, 203, 
268, 279, 292, 313, 330, 352 

— marrow, 36 

— soups, 815 
Vegetables, cookery of, 93 

— storing of, 96 
Vermicelli, 49 
Vichy water, 284, 309 
Vinegar, 49, 194 



WATER, as a drink, 79, 185, 353 
— as a remedy, 304, 312, 353 
— gruel, 64, 260 
Whey, 57, 258, 308 
Wine, 65 (see also 'Alcohol *) 



YEA 

Wine, good influence of, 244, 257, 
268, 282 

— cellaring of, 78, 104 

— choice of, 68, 163, 257, 283, 344, 
351 

— in old age, 228 

— red, 106, 313 

— rosined, 195 

— spirits of, 79 

— varieties of, 67 
Winter greens, 35 
Women's work, 208 
Worms, round, 41 

— tape, 22 

YAMS, 33 
Yeast, 63 



L0HD09 : PBINTED B7 

SPOTTISWOODB AKD 00., HBW-8TBBBT SQUABR 

AHD PABLIAUENT 8TBBBT 



^? 1 1 



.•:■ %. -. - 



