Price 50 Cents. 






BOSTON RECEIPTS. 



CONTAINING OVER 



Tffo Hiinflreil Comoii-Seiise Receipts, 



FOIi ECONOMICAL AN^D HEALTHFUL COOKING, TESTED BY 
A HOUSEKEEPER OF TWENTY YEARS' EXPERIENCE. 



With blank pages interleaved for additional receipts: 



^c 



CX^* 



BOSTON : 

PUBLISHED BY A. WILLIAMS & CO. 

283 Washington Street. 

1876. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 



CONTAINING OVER 



Two Hniitoefl Gomoii-Seiise Receists, 



FOB ECONOMICAL AND UEALTUFUL COOKING, TESTED BY 
A UOUSEKEEPER OF TWENTY YEARS' EXPERIENCE. 



With blank pages interleaved for addi^nal receipts. 






/y/36j- 



BOSTON: 

PUBLISHED BY A. WILLIAMS & CO. 

283 "Washington Street. 

1876. 









Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1875, by Clara C. Fat, 
in the office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 



rre«8 of Wright tc Potter, 79 Milk St., Boiton. 



PEEFACE. 



These receipts have been thoroughly tested by experi- 
enced housekeepers, and are published for the first time for 
the Fair in aid of the Massachusetts Infant Asylum. 

In the hope that they may prove a welcome assistant to 
the inex^^erienced and to those desirous of making the 
kitchen and dining-room places to be enjoyed, not dreaded, 
an effort has been made to simplify these receipts, and to 
select those only which are practical and economical ; as 
in housekeeping it is not so much what is iLscd as what is 
wasted that makes living so expensive. 

The home influence of a wife and mother depends more 
than we realize upon the knowledge she may have of the 
kitchen, and the good nature of the husband and family on 
an orderly house and well-served meals. 

Let mothers teach their daughters to be good house- 
keepers before they leave the home roof, that they may 
know when they are well served, and be able also to teach 
others. It is worry, and not work, which tires. 



SUGGESTIONS. 



Always use good materials. Avoid strong butter, as it 
injures the other ingredients. 

Porcelain-lined vessels are best for cooking all acid fruits 
or vegetables. 

Use farina-boiler for milk, custard and blanc mange. 

In making cake, measure with a teacup, dissolve the 
soda in the milk, and mix the cream of tartar with the 
flour. 

Have the eggs thoroughly beaten. 

The dried skin of salt codJBsh is effective in settling 
coffee ; an inch square is sufficient for a quart. 

The finest powdered sugar should be used for frosting. 



CONTENTS. 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 




PIES 








Omelet, .... 


9 


Cream Pie, . 


14 


Breakfast Dish, No. 1, 


9 


Charlotte-Russe Pie, 






15 


Squash Fritters, 


9 


Lemon Pie, 






15 


Indian Frilters, . 


9 


Chocolate Pie, . 






15 


Fritters 


10 


Mince Pie, . 






. 15 


Scalloped Tomato, . 


10 


Squash Pie, 






. 16 


Chopped Potato, 


10 


Custard Pie, 






16 


Breakfast Dish, No. 2, . 


10 


CAKE 




PUDDINGS. 




Fruit Cake, No. 1, 


. . 16 


Delmonico Pudding, . 


10 


Doughnuts, No. 1, 








Plum Pudding, . 


11 


Loaf Cake, No. 1, 








Devonshire Pudding, 


11 


Nut Cake, No. 1, 








Malberry Pudding, . 


11 


Lady Cake, 








Tapioca Pudding, No. 1, . 


11 


Composition Cake, 








Soft-Cracker Pudding, 


11 


Loaf Cake, No. 2, 








Cake Pudding, . 


11 


Cary Cake, . 








Baked Indian Pudding, . 


12 


Currant Cake, . 








Cracker Pudding, 


12 


Cider Cake, No. 1, 








Concord Pudding, 


12 


Gold Cake, . . 








Cottage Pudding, 


12 


Silver Cake, No. 1, 








Raw-Rice Pudding, . 


12 


French Cake, . 








Tapioca Pudding, No. 2, . 


12 


Sponge Cake, . 








Ohio Wedding Pudding, . 


13 


Berry Cake, 








Berry Pudding, . 


13 


Doughnuts, No. 2, 






18 


Sunderland Pudding, 


13 


Picnic Cake, . . 






19 


Snow Pudding, . 


13 


Doughnuts, No. 3, 






19 


Apple Tapioca Pudding, . 


13 


Marble Cake, No. 1, . 






19 


Spice Pudding, . 


14 


Ginger Sponge Cake, 






19 


Troy Pudding, . 


14 


Tumbler Cake, . 






19 


White-Mountain Pudding, 


14 


Taylor Cake, 






19 


Steam Pudding, . 


14 


Macaroon Frosting, . 






20 


Rice Pudding, . . . . 


14 


Velvet Cake, . . 






20 



6 


CONTENTS. 




Nut Cako, No. 2, . . 


20 


Biscuit, 


Cleveland Cocoanut Cake, 


20 


Rolls, 




Cup Cake, .... 


20 


Gloucester Third Bread, . 




Plain Silver Cake, 


20 


Centrc-TIarbor Corn Cake, 




Silver Cake, No. 2, . 


21 


Rye ISfuffins, 




Crarry Cake, 


21 


Muffins, No. 1, . 




Coccanut Cake, No. 1, 


21 


Bunns, No. 1, . . . 




Tea Cake, No. 1, 


21 


Boston Brown Bread, 




Cheap Cake, 


21 


Cream-Tartar Biscuits, 




Peak Cako 


21 


Muffins, No. 2, . 




Quick Sponge Cake, . 


22 


Brown Bread, . 




Salem Sponge Cake, . 


22 


Bunns, No. 2, . . . 




Cambridge Cake, 


22 


Graham Muffins, No. 2, . 




Cider Cake, No. 2, . 


22 


Methodist Brown Bread, . 




Lemon Cake, No. 1, . 


22 


Parker- TTouse Rolls, . 




Lady-Fingers, . 


22 


Muffins, No. 3, . . 




Bramhall Cake, . 


23 


Rye Cakes, 




Pound Cake, No. 1, . 


23 


MEAT. 




Cream Cakes, . 


23 


Veal Cutlets, 




Tea Cake, No. 2, 


23 


Potted Pigeons, . 




Doughnuts, No. 4, 


23 


Chicken Pot-Pie, 




White-Mountain Cake, . 


23 


Fried Chickens, . 




Chocolate Cake, 


24 


Pii.in, 




Rice Cake, .... 


24 


BouilliBeef, 




Cocoanut Cake, No. 2, . 


24 






Almond Cake, . 


24 


risH. 




Doughnuts, No. 5, 
Measure Cake, . 


25 
2") 


To Stew a Haddock, . 
Fish Chowder, . 




Coffee Cake, 


25 


Clam Chowder, . 




Long-Ifland Cako, 


25 


Fried Fish,. 




Marble Cake, No. 2, . 


25 


Broiled Salmon, 




Pound Cake, No. 2, . 


27 


Corned ITalibut, 




Fruit Cake, No. 2, . 


26 


Boiled Salmon, . 




Fruit Cake, No. 3, . 


25 


Stewed Oysters, 


Fruit Cake, No. 4, . 


26 


SAUCES. 


Cocoanut Loaf, . 


26 


Pudding Sauce, No. 1, 


Chocolate Loaf, 


26 


Liquid Sauce 


Lemon Cake, No. 2, . 


26 


Pudding Sauce, No. 2, 


Icc-Cream Cake, 


27 


Pudding Sauce, No. 3, 


Cake 


27 


Cold-Pudding Sauce, 


Tea Cake, No. 2, 


27 


Pudding Sauce, No. 4, 


BREAD. 




Moorpark Fish Sauce, 


Wheat Bread, . 


. 27 


COOKIES AND GINCERBnEAD 


Boiled Brown Bread, 


28 


Cookies, No. 1, . 


Graham Muffins, No. 1, . 


28 


Plain Cookies, .... 


Indian Cake, 


28 


Thin Molasses Gingerbread, . 


White Corn Cake, . 


28 


Corsican Gingerbread, 





Ginger Snaps, . 
Jumbles, No. 1, . 
Seed Cakes, 
Cookies, No. 2, . 
Jumbles, No. 2, . 
Scotch Cookies, . 
Currant Cookies, 
Bethlehem Cookies, 
Molasses Cookies, 
Snipidooclles, 
Canterbury Cookies, 
Soft-Sugar Gingerbread, 
Molasses Drop Cakes, 
New York Gingerbread, 
Molasses Gingerbread, No, 
Gingerbread, No 1, 
Molasses Gingerbread, No. 2, 
Sugar Gingerbread, . 
n.ard Gingerbread, . 
Brighton Gingerbread, 
Gingerbread, No. 2, . 

SWEKT DISHES, 

Charlotte-Russe, 
Tapioca Custard, 
Tapioca Cream, . 
Chocolate Custards, . 
Spanish Cream, . 
Velvet Cream, . . ■ 
Ice Cream, . 
Blanc Mange, 

CANDY. 

Barley-Sugar Candy, 
Chocolate Candy, 
Chocolate Caramels, . 
Chocolate Cream-Drops, 
Molasses Candy, 

PRESERVES. 
Raspberries and Blackberries, 
Strawberries and Cherries, 



CONTENTS. 


7 


86 


Pineapples, 


. 43 


36 


Pears, 


43 


37 


Plums 


43 


37 


Peaches 


. 43 


37 


Wine Jelly, 


43 


37 


Currant Jelly, . 


43 


37 


Crabapplc Jelly, 


44 


37 


Barberries, .... 


. 44 


37 


Cranberries, 


44 


. 38 


Quinces, .... 


44 


. 38 


PICKLES. 




38 


Spiced Currants, 


44 


. 38 


Tomato Catsup, . 


44 


38 


Shilley Sauce, . 


45 


38 


Pickles 


45 


38 


Mangoes, . . . . 


. 45 


39 


Chow-ChoTv, 


45 


39 


Picallilli, .... 


45 


39 


Raspberry Vinegar, . 


46 


39 






39 


MISCELLANEOUS. 






Com Chowder, . 


46 


39 
40 


Egg Cordial, 


46 


Flour Gruel, 


. 46 


Yeast 


. 46 


40 
40 


"Washing Blankets, . 


46 


Currant Wine, . 


47 


40 


To Clean Black Silk, 


. 47 


40 


For Bums 


47 


41 


Succotash, .... 


. 47 


41 


Rich Paste, 


. 47 




Common Paste, . 


47 


41 


Strawberry Shortcake, . 


47 


41 


Maccaroons, 


. 47 


42 


German Potatoes, 


. 48 


42 


Salad Dressing, . 


48 


42 


Lobster Salad, . 


. 48 




Chicken Salad, . 


. 48 


. 42 


Boiled Coffee, . 


48 


42 


Boston Baked Beans, 


. 48 



BOSTON RECEIPTS, 



X^rtiiltfiLst t^hhtn. 



OMELET. 

Six eggs, the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and the yolks 
well beaten ; one teacupful of warm milk, with a table- 
spoonful of butter melted in it ; one tablespoonful of flour, 
wet to a paste with a little milk, and poured to the milk ; 
one tcaspoonful of salt and a little pepper. Mix all except 
the whites, add these last, then cook immediately in a 
frying-pan. Ham chopped fine and added improves this. 
Some like sweet herbs added, and some fine-cut onion. 

BREAKFAST DISH, No. 1. 

Cut cold roast beef into small pieces and put it into a 
baking-dish, add some grai-y, a little pepper and salt, and 
cover with a thick crust of mashed potato. Brown in the 
oven. 

SQUASH FRITTERS. 

One cup of squash, two cups of milk, three eggs, salt, 
nutmeg, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda, flour enough to 
make a batter, a little sugar. 

INDIAN FRITTERS. 

One pint of sifted Indian meal, four tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two eggs, one quart of sour milk, salt and soda. 
Cook like buckwheat cakes. 

2 



10 BOSTON RECEIPTS. 



FRITTERS. 



One pint of milk, two eggs, spice, sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream-tartar, one-lialf teaspoonful of soda, flour for 
a batter, not very thick. Fry quickly. 

SCALLOPED TOMATO. 

Peel and slice some tomatoes, then pound some crackers, 
butter a deep dish, and sprinkle in a layer of crumbs ; then 
put in a layer of tomato, season with butter, pepper, salt, and 
a little sugar ; add alternate layers of tomato and crumbs, 
seasoning each one until the dish is full, having crumbs on 
top. Bake half an hour in a quick oven. 

Oysters done in the same manner. 

CHOPPED POTATO. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes quite fine, add a little butter 
and salt, put it into a frying-pan well buttered, and let it 
stand on the stove where it will brown slowly. Invert it on 
a large plate. 

BREAKFAST DISH, No. 2, 

Beat an e^gg and one saltspoonful of salt together, add 
one-half pint of cold water ; dip into it slices of bread. Fry 
them in butter : serve hot. 



pwihling? 



DELMONICO PUDDING. 

The yolks of three or four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
corn-starch, five of white sugar, one teaspoonful of vanilla, 
a pinch of salt, mixed together and stirred into one quart 
of boiling milk ; boil three minutes, pour into a baking- 
dish. Beat the whites of the eggs with four tablespoonfuls 
of sugar. Brown in the oven. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. H 



PLUM PUDDESTG. 

One and one-third loaves of baker's bread, one and one- 
third quarts of boiled milk, one and one-quarter pounds of 
stoned raisins, one pound of currants, one-quarter pound of 
citron, one pound of suet chopped well, three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar, two nutmegs, one tablespoonful of mace 
and cinnamon together, the peel of one lemon grated, one 
glass of wine and one of brandy, ten eggs. Bake two 
hours. 

DEVONSHIRE PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, one pound of suet, one pound of 
currants ; eggs enough to wet it with. Boil five hours. 

MALBERRY PUDDING. 

Six large spoonfuls of arrowroot, six eggs ; let them be 
well beaten together ; boil one quart of milk, pour it into 
the same, stirring all the time. Eat with a rich sauce. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING, No. 1. 

One quart of milk to two-thirds of a cup of tapioca ; soak 
over night; then add three eggs, sugar enough to sweeten, 
butter size of one-half of an egg, spice. Bake three- 
quarters of an hour. 

SOFT-CRACKER PUDDING. 

Four soft crackers, four eggs, a piece of butter, a little 
salt, one quart of milk. Bake ; to eat with sauce. 

CAKE PUDDING. 

Line the bottom and sides of a dish with cake ; put a little 
wine on each piece of cake. The yolks of ten eggs to a quart 
of milk, a custard-cup of sugar, salt and lemon ; cook the 
same as soft custard ; pour on to the cake. Have ready the 
whites of the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, flavored with 
rose ; put it on the top of the custard. Put in a moderate 
oven and brown. To be eaten cold. 



12 BOSTON RECEIPTS. 



BAKED-mDIAN PUDDING. 

Scald one quart of milk ; stir in, while hot, one-half pint 
of meal, one teacnj^ful of molasses, salt. Let it cool an 
hour or two, then pour into a deep earthen dish well 
buttered ; pour in one-half pint or more of cold milk, and 
stir when put into the oven. Bake three or four hours. 

CKACKER PUDDDs^G. 

Three pounded crackers, three eggs, three tablespoon- 
fuls of sugar, salt and sj^ice. Pour a quart of boiling milk 
gradually on to the crackers, add the sugar, eggs and sj^ice ; 
turn into a buttered dish, and bake half an hour. Serve 
with sauce. 

CONCORD PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, one-half 
a cup of butter or suet, t^vo cups of stoned raisins, four 
cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream -tartar, spice and salt. Boil four or five hours, or 
steam. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two and one-half tablespoonfuls of butter, one teacup of 
sugar, one teaspoonful of soda in one teacup of milk, two 
teaspoonfuls cream-tartar in one pint of flour, one egg\ 
bake three-quarters of an hour and serve hot with sauce. 

Very nice steamed. 

RAW-RICE PUDDING. 

One quart of cold milk, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of sugar, one cup of rice, spice and raisins, two eggs. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING, No. 2. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of tapioca two hours ; cook in 
a quart of milk, yolks of four eggs, stirred in with one cup 
of sugar; cook one-half hour. Beat the whites of the eggs 
to a stiff froth, add one-half cup of sugar ; put over the top 
in larjre balls. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 13 



OHIO WEDDING PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses boiled with a half cup of butter, 
one cup of milk, four cups of flour, one cup of raisins, one- 
half teaspoonful saleratus, one nutmeg, and a little cinna- 
mon. Boil three hours. 

Sauce . — One cup of sugar and three eggs . Longer beaten 
the better. 

WHITE-MOUNTAIN PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one-half cup of milk, a small 
piece of butter, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two and one-half cups of flour, flavor 
with lemon ; frost it and serve with sauce. 

TROY PUDDING. 

One cup of suet, one (scant) cup of molasses, one and 
one-half cups of sour milk, two and one-half cups of flour, 
one cup of chopped raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
teaspoonful of salt. Boil three hours. Serve with liquid 
sauce. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Soak one ounce of gelatine in a pint of cold water for 
two hours, then place it over the fire, stir, and remove as 
soon as it is dissolved ; when nearly cold, beat to a stiff 
froth with an egg-beater. Beat the whites of three eggs to 
a stiff froth, together with the juice of three lemons and 
fine sugar to suit the taste. Mix the whole well together, 
then pour into a mould and set away to cool. Serve with 
soft custard made from the yolks of the eggs. 

APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Eight tablespoonfuls of tapioca, one and one-half pints 
of cold water, one teaspoonful of salt ; soak three hours ; 
seven apples ; take out cores and fill with sugar ; pour the 
tapioca over the apples. Bake one hour. 

Sauce. — Three eggs and one^ cup of sugar well beaten 
together and flavored, without cooking. 



14 BOSTON BECEIPTS, 



SPICE PUDDmG. 

One cuj) of milk, one cup of molasses, piece of butter 
half tlie size of an egg, one teaspoonful soda, one tea- 
spoonful mixed spice, flour enough for a stiff batter. 
Steam two hours. 

SUNDERLAND PUDDING. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, five spoonfuls of flour, a 
little salt. Bake in little cups, two-thirds full, twenty- 
minutes ; butter the cups well, and serve with sweet sauce. 

BERRY PUDDING. 

One cup sugar, one large spoonful of butter, one cup of 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls 
cream tartar, four cups of flour, one quart of berries. Boil 
two hours. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of sour 
milk, one-half cup of butter, one cup of fruit, one egg, 
three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda ; steam three hours and not stop boiling. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Boil some rice and turn into buttered cups ; when cold 
turn on a platter ; make a cavity in the top of each and fill 
with jelly. Serve with sweetened cream. 



^ItiU 



CREAM PIE. 

Cake. — Two cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, three cups of 
flour, one teaspoonful of cream-tartar, four eggs, one half a 



BOSTON BECEIPTS. 15 

Cream. — Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
flour, one and one-half pints of milk ; beat eggs, sugar and 
flour to a cream, and pour into the milk when boiling. 
Flavor. 

CHARLOTTE-RUSSE PIES, 

One and one-half cups of sugar and three eggs beaten 
together (about five minutes), one teaspoonful of cream- 
tartar stirred into two cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of 
soda in one-half cup of cold water, — add tliat the last. 
Flavor. 

Filling. — One cup of sugar, two eggs, four teaspoonfuls 
of corn-starch in a pint of boiling milk ; put in while on the 
fire and let boil up. Little salt and flavoring. 

LEMON PIE. 

The juice and rind of two lemons, two cups of sugar, 
two cups of milk, two tablespoonfuls of maizena. Scald 
the milk, dissolve the maizena, and stir in the milk, also 
the yolks of six eggs. When baked, add the whites of the 
eggs beaten with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and place in 
the oven to brown. This is for two pies. 

CHOCOLATE PIE. 

One-half pound of sweet chocolate, one cup of powdered 
sugar, the yolks of two eggs, one cup of boiling milk. Mix 
the sugar, chocolate and eggs, turn into the hot milk, and 
let boil until thick enough. 

Cake for the Pies. — Two cups of sugar, three cups 
of flour, three eggs, one cup of milk, small piece of butter, 
two even teas230onfuls of cream-tartar, one even teaspoon- 
ful of saleratus. 

Frosting. — ^Take whites of two eggs and beat powdered 
sugar in until thick enough. 

mince pies. 
Boil three pounds of beef until tender, take it out and 
leave the liquid to cool ; when your meat is cold, choj) fine. 



16 BOSTON RECEIPTS. 

To one bowl of meat add two bowls of chopped apples and 
one bowl of fmit, consisting" of stoned raisins, currants and 
a little citron ; add a little brandy, cider, sugar, molasses, 
salt and mixed spices ; take the fat which has risen on the 
liquid and chop with the meat. The liquid will make nice 
soup. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Steam squash until tender; then strain and add milk, 
salt, spice, sugar, and fine-sifted cracker, — half a cracker 
and one egg to a pie. Bake in deep plates, with a lining 
and rim of paste. Bake half an hour. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
a little salt and flavor. Bake the same as squash pies. 



^^\\\Kt. 



FRUIT CAKE, No. 1. 

Three eggs, one cup of butter, one-quarter cup of molasses, 
two cups of brown sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one and 
one-half cups of chopped raisins, four cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of soda, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg. 

DOUGHNUTS, No. 1. 

Five spoonfuls of cream, five spoonfuls of sugar, three 
eggs, flour, salt and spice. 

LOAF CAKE, No. 1. 

Connecticut Election Cake.— Two pounds of flour, 
one pound of sugar, one-half pound of butter, one-half pound 
of lard, one pint of milk, one-half pint of yeast, onc-lirJf 
pint of wine, three eggs, three nutmegs, raisins. Beat the 
eggs and yeast together and let rise. In the morning, 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 17 

when risen, add the milk and part of the flour; at noon it 
should be light enough to add the rest of the flour and half 
of the sugar and butter ; before going to bed mix all 
together, adding raisins, &c. ; in the morning put it in the 
pans, let it stand an hour and then bake. This makes three 
or four loaves. 

NUT CAKE, No. 1. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one cup of sour milk, 
one-half cup of butter, one cup of nut-meats, one cup of 
raisins, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one of 
cinnamon, two eggs. 

LADY CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, one cup of milk, three 
cups of flour, one-quarter of a pound of butter, juice and 
rind of one-half of a lemon, one-quarter teaspoonful of soda. 

COMPOSITION CAKE. 

Two and one-quarter pounds of flour, one and three- 
quarters pounds of sugar, one and one-quarter pounds of 
butter, six eggs, four nutmegs, one pint of milk, two tea- 
spoonfuls of soda, some cloves, two pounds of fruit, one 
gill of brandy. This makes two large loaves. 

LOAF CAKE, No. 2. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of brown sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, two cups of chopped raisins, two and 
one-half cups of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, 
one-half teaspoonful each of cloves and nutmeg. 

CARY CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
two and one-half cups of flour, the whites of eight eggs, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream-tartar. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

One cup of sugar and two eggs beaten together ; add one- 
half cup of butter, one cup of flour, with one teaspoonful 

3 



18 BOSTOX liECEIPTS. 

of cream-tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda in one-half cup 
of sweet milk, one cup of flour, one cup of currants, nutmeg. 

CIDER CAKE, No. 1. 

Eight cups of flour, four cups of sugar, tvvo cups of 
molasses, two cups of butter, six eggs, four nutmegs, one 
pint of cider, two teaspoonfuls of soda, four or five pounds 
of fruit. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One cup of brown sugar, one-half cup of butter, one- 
half cup of milk, a little soda, two cups of flour, yolks 
of three eggs, nutmeg. 

Silver Cake (Xo. 1) the same, excepting use wiiite 



FRENCH CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
three cups of flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of cream- 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda in one cup of sweet 
milk. Slow oven. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs beaten separately, one cup of white sugar, 
one cup of flour ; flavor. Bake in a quick oven. 

BERRY CAKE. 

One cup of sweet milk, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
berries, three cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of soda, 
one spoonful of butter. Sei've hot. 

DOUGHNUTS, No. 2. 

One scant cup of sugar, one even cup of milk, one scant 
spoonful of butter softened, one egg, two teaspoonfuls 
cream-tartar, one of soda. Mix the sugar and butter to- 
gether, break the egg into it, then put the soda and cream- 
tartar both into the milk, add spice, and roll out as soft as 
you can. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 19 



PICNIC CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, frvvo teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one of 
soda, three cups of flour, one-half cup of corn-starch ; fla- 
vor with lemon or vanilla. 

DOUGHNUTS, No. 3. 

One andx)ne-half cups of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, a small piece of butter ; salt and nutmeg. 

MARBLE CAKE, No. 1. 

Light.— Two cups of flour, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of 
cream-tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, the whites of 
three eggs. 

Dark.— One-third cup of molasses, one-third cup of 
brown sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of 
butter, one teaspoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, one 
scant teaspoonful of soda, the yolks of three eggs, one and 
one-half cups of flour. 

ginger sponge cake. 
One cup of molasses, one cup of butter, one cup of sugar, 
one cup of milk, three cups of flour, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful each of cassia, ginger and saleratus. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 

Four eggs, one tumbler of butter, one tumbler of sugar, 
one tumbler of molasses, four tumblers of flour, one tum- 
bler of currants, one tumbler of raisins, one teaspoonful of 
soda, spices. 

TAYLOR CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of butter, 
one and one-half cups of cider, four eggs, five cups of 



20 BOSTON RECEIPTS. 

flour, one teaspoonful of soda, one nutmeg, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, fruit. 

MACAKOON FROSTING. 

White of one egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of cinnamon. 

VELVET CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of butter, one cup of cold water, four eggs, mace, one even 
teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar. 

NUT CAKE, No. 2. 

One cup of butter, two cuj^s of sugar, three cups of flour, 
five eggs, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cream- 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one cup of nuts, with 
a little flour ; English walnuts are most desirable. Some 
chop them, and some do not. 

CLEVELAND COCOANUT CAKE. 

One-half pound flour, one-half pound sugar, one-quarter 
pound butter, three eggs, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon- 
ful cream-tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, Bake in jelly- 
pans, five layers. 

Frosting. — Whites of four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of 
sugar to each. Spread frosting on each cake when from 
the oven a few minutes. Sprinkle grated cocoanut over 
each cake, then over the whole. One cocoanut will suflice. 

CUP CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup of milk, three cups of flour, three eggs, even 
teaspoonful cream-tartar, half an even teaspoonful of soda. 

PLAIN SILVER CAKE. 

For Cream or Washington Pies. — The whites of four 
eggs beaten to a froth, three and one-half cups of flour, one 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 21 

and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of milk, two level teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one of soda. 

SILVER CAKE, No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
of milk, two cups of flour, the whites of three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream-tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Flavor with bitter almonds. 

CRAKRY CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two- 
thirds of a cup of milk (sweet), four eggs, three cups of 
flour, one teaspoonful of mace or nutmeg, two-thirds of a 
teaspoonful of cream-tartar, one-third of a teaspoonful of 
saleratus. 

COCOANUT CAKE, No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, four cups of flour, 
one-half cup of milk, one cup of grated cocoanut, whites 
of six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of yeast powder. 

TEA CAKE, No. 1. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, three 
eggs, one and one-half cups of milk, three cups of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one teaspoonful of salera- 
tus. Bake about half an hour. 

CHEAP CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two tea- 
spoonfuls cream-tartar, two eggs, one pint chopped rai- 
sins, one nutmeg, flour enough to thicken. Bake slowly. 

PEAK CAKE. 

Three cups of sugar, one and one-half cups of butter, 
one cup of milk, five eggs, five cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar. 



22 BOSTON RECEIPTS. 



QUICK SPONGE CAKE. 

Three cups of flour, three cups of sugar, six eggs, the 
peel of one lemon, the juice of two. Beat all up together ; 
add a teaspoonful of saleratus, and bake it directly. 

SALEM SPONGE CAKE. 

Twelve eggs, one pound of flour, one and one-half 
pounds of sugar. Beat the yolks a little, then add the 
sugar ; when well mixed add a wineglass of rose-water and 
the whites beaten to a strong froth ; then the flour by hand- 
fuls, the peel of a fresh lemon grated and the juice of one. 
As you put it into the oven sift on a little sugar, but do not 
let it stand. Bake in hearts and rounds. 

CAMBRIDGE CAKE. 

One cup of milk, one cup of molasses, one cup of butter, 
two cups of sugar, five eggs, tsvo pounds of currants, one 
pound of raisins, one-half a pound of citron, one wineglass 
of brandy, one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream-tartar. 

CIDER CAKE, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, three cups of flour, one cup of but^ 
ter, one cup of cider, one teaspoonful of soda ; cinnamon 
and nutmeg ; raisins improve it. 

LEMON CAKE, No. 1. 

Two eggs, two cups of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, 
one cup cf milk, three cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
soda, two teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, the grated rind of one 
lemon. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Beat tvv'^o eggs light, add a cupful of sugar, all but a 
tablcspoonful ; mix with sifted flour a teaspoonful each of 
cream tartar and soda ; stir in flour enough to make a stiS* 
dough ; roll it thin and sprinkle the top with sugar, cut the 
dough into strips about the size of the middle finger. 



BOSTON BECEIPTS. 23 



BRAMHALL CAKE. 

Two-thirds of a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of molasses, one and one-half cups of water, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, two eggs, five cups of flour, spice and 
fruit as you please. 

POUND CAKE, No. 1. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one pound of 
flour, nine eggs. 

CREAM CAKES. 

Two cups of flour, one cup of butter, one-half a pint of 
water; boil butter and water together, stir in the flour 
gradually while boiling ; when cool add five eggs, drop on 
tin and bake in a quick oven. 

Cream. — One pint of milk, one-half a cup of flour, one 
cup of sugar, two eggs. Beat eggs, sugar and flour to- 
gether, and stir in gradually while boiling; flavor with 
lemon. Fill when cool. 

TEA CAKE, No. 2. 

One even cup of sugar, four even cups of flour, one egg, 
a piece of butter the size of an egg, one and one-half cups 
of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

DOUGHNUTS, No. 4. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of milk, two eggs, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
tablespoonfuls of solid butter, flour. One cup of sour milk 
and one cup of sour cream can be substituted for the two 
cups of milk, omitting the cream-tartar. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Eight eggs, leaving out two yolks, two cups of Tsugar, 
not quite a cup of butter, two cups of flour, six tablespoon- 
fuls of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda. This quantity makes four cakes, to 



24 BOSTON IlECEIPTS. 

be put together with frosting. Mix well together the sugar 
and l)uttcr, then put the soda in the milk and add it to the 
other ; put the cream-tartar into the flour, then add alter- 
nately a little flour and a little white of e^g until all is in. 
Bake all at once in four pans (straight edged), make 
ordinary frosting, and put between when almost cold, the 
same as you would in jelly cake, and flnish with frosting. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
five eggs (omitting the whites of tAvo) , one-half teaspoon- 
ful of soda, one teaspoonful of cream-tartar, three and one- 
half cups of flour. 

FrwOSTiNG. — The whites of the two eggs, six heaping 
tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate, one cup of powdered 
sugar, one teasj^oonful of vanilla ; frost when the cake is 
hot. This makes two loaves. 

EICE CAKE. 

One-half a pound of rice-flour, one half a pound of sugar, 
one-quarter a pound of butter, three eggs. Rose or vanilla 
extract. 

COCOANTT CAKE, No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, one-half a 
cup of sweet milk, two cu^^s of flour, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream-tartar, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, 
one cup of dessicated cocoa-nut. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one-half cup of butter, 
one-half cup of milk, two cups of flour, whites of six eggs, 
beaten to a froth, one teaspoonful cream-tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of extract of almonds, 
a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds strewn over the 
top. Bake thirty minutes. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 25 



DOUGHNUTS, No. 5. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, two 
tablespoonfuls of butter melted, one teaspoonful of soda, 
nutmeg ; roll soft. 

MEASURE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup 
cream, two and one-half cups of flour, two eggs, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, spice to taste. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of strong coffee, one cup of molasses, four cups 
of flour, two cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, four 
eggs, two even teaspoonfuls each of soda, cinnamon and 
cloves, two nutmegs, one pound of fruit. 

LONG ISLAND CAKE. 

One-half pound of butter, one pound of flour, one pound 
of sugar, four eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda, one-half pint of milk, citron and fla- 
voring. 

MARBLE CAKE, No. 2. 

Light. — "Whites of six eggs, one and one-half cups of 
white sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, one-third of 
a cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one and three- 
fourths cups of flour, lemon flavor. 

Dark. — Yolks of six eggs, one and one-half cups of 
brown sugar, three-fourths of a cup of butter, one and 
three-fourths cups of flour, one-half teaspoonful of cream- 
tartar, one teaspoonful each of allspice, cinnamon and 
cloves. Place layers of each mixture alternately. 

FRUIT CAKE, No. 3. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, 
one pound of flour, two pounds of stoned raisins, two 
pounds of currants, one i:)ound of citron, ten eggs, one-half 
cup of brandy, nutmeg, clove, cinnamon, mace to the taste. 



26 BOSTON BECEIP-TS. 



LEMON CAKE, No. 2. 

One cnp of butter, five eggs beaten separately, three 
cups of sugar, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful each of 
soda and cream-tartar, four cups of flour, peel and juice ol 
one lemon, 

FRUIT CAKE, No. 2. 

Five eggs, three full cups of sugar, two small cups of 
butter, live cups of flour, one cup of milk or wine, one 
pound of currants, one pound of raisins, one-half pound of 
citron, one nutmeg, seven-eighths of a teasjioonful of cinna- 
mon, one-quarter of a teaspoonful of cloves, two table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, one-third teaspoonful of soda (dis- 
solved) . 

FRUIT CAKE, No. 4. 

Two cups of brown sugar, one and one-half cups of but- 
ter, three cuj^s of flour, three eggs, one-half cup of mo- 
lasses, one teaspoonful of soda, one cup of sweet milk, cin- 
namon, nutmeg and fruit. 

COCOANUT LOAF. 

One cup of butter, two and one-half cups of sugar, four 
cups of flour, whites of six eggs, one cup of milk, four tea- 
sjDoonfuls of yeast powder. 

Frosting. — Whites of five eggs, two teacupfuls of grated 
cocoanut; sweeten to taste with powdered sugar. Bake the 
cake in thin sheets and put the frosting between when 
nearly cold, and on top. 

CHOCOLATE LOAF. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and one-half 
cups of flour, seven eggs, leaving out the whites of four, 
one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful cream-tartar ; flavor' with vanilla. 

Frosting. — Whites of four eggs, two cups of sugar, 
eight (heaping) tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate. 



BOSTON BECEIPTS. 27 



POUND CAKE, No. 2 (MEASURED). 

One cup of milk, three cups of sugar, two cups of butter, 
four cups of flour, five eggs ; flavor, 

ICE-CREAM CAKE. 

To Eat with Cream. — One cup of sugar, one-half cup 
butter, two cups of flour, one-half cup of milk, tliree eggs 
beaten separately, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful cream-tartar ; flavor to suit taste. 

CAKE- 

One cup of butter, two and one-half cups of sugar, one 
cup of milk, four cups of flour (before sifted), five eggs, 
two-thirds of a teaspoonful of cream-tartar, one-half tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

TEA CAKE, No. 2. 

One and one-half pints of flour, three tablespoonfals of 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls cream-tartar in the flour, three eggs 
well beaten, three tablespoonfuls of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful of soda in a cup of milk. Bake twenty minutes. 



1|njail. 



WHEAT BREAD. 

Sift into a bread-pan three pints of flour, add one teacup- 
ful of yeast (in which has been dissolved a pinch of soda), 
a little sugar and salt, one quart of mixed milk and water, 
or water with a small piece of lard or butter; knead until 
perfectly smooth. Mix at night; in the morning divide 
into loaves, knead again, and let rise for an hour. Bake 
three-quarters of an hour. In cold weather mix with tepid 
water. 



28 BOSTON EECEIPTS. 



BOILED BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of Indian meal, one cup of lye meal, one-half 
cup of flour, two cups of sweet milk, one cup of sour milk, 
one teas230onful of soda, one-half cup of molasses, salt. 
Boil three hours. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS, No. 1. 

One quart of Graham flour, add one teaspoonful of salt, 
five tahlespoonfuls of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of yeast. 
Stir as thick as pound-cake. Let it stand over night (if for 
breakfast) ; when ready to hake add a well-beaten egg and 
a teaspoonful of soda. Bake one-half hour. 

INDIAN CAKE. 

One pint of sweet milk, tw^o teacup fuls of meal, one-half 
teacupful of sugar, one egg, one-half teacup ful of flour, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half teas^Doonful of soda, 
salt. 

WHITE CORN CAKE. 

Two cups of sweet milk, two cups of corn flour, one cup 
of wheat flour, one-half cuji of sugar, one spoonful of soda, 
two spoonfuls cream-tartar, two eggs, salt. 

BISCUIT. 

One pint of scalded milk, with one tablespoonful of lard 
boiled in the milk. Let this stand until lukewarm, then 
add a tablespoonful of sugar, one teacuj^ful of yeast, flour 
enough for a stiff" batter. Let it stand to rise at night; in 
the morning, about an hour before baking, mould and cut 
out; bake in a quick oven. 

ROLLS. 

In the evening take two quarts of flour, make a hole in 
the middle and put in one tablespoonful of white sugar, a 
piece of butter size of an egg (melted in milk when 
hot), one quart cold, boiled milk, one-half cup of yeast; 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 29 

stir it up and let rise over night ; in the morning knead 
well and let rise until noon, then cut out with round cutter, 
put a little piece of butter on one half, turn the other half 
over onto it, leave until fifteen minutes of tea-time. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

GLOUCESTER TIIIKD BREAD. 

One jDint of Indian meal, one-half a pint of rye meal, 
one-half cup of molasses, one cup of yeast, salt. Scald the 
Indian meal with boiling water until about as thick a? 
griddle-cakes; leave until milk-warm, then add rye meal, 
molasses, yeast, salt, and knead with flour ; mix at night 
for breakfiist. 

CENTRE-HARBOR CORN CAKE. 

Two cuj)S of flour, one cup of corn-meal, two cups of 
milk, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. 

If the milk is sour, leave out the cream-tartar. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups of Indian meal, two cups of rye meal, one cup 
of wheat flour, one pint of milk, two-thirds of a cup of 
molasses, one teaspoonful of soda; steam or boil four hours 
in a two-quart pan. 

BmfNS, No. 1. 

One and one-half cups of milk, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of currants, a scant cup of yeast, two eggs, a little salt, 
a piece of butter the size of an Qgg, one even teaspoonful 
of soda. Make a thin batter, at night, of the milk, yeast, 
and one-half cup of sugar ; add the rest in the morning. 

CREAM-TARTAR BISCUITS. 

Take a heaping quart of flour, mix into this thoroughly 
with your hands two heaping teaspoonfuls of cream-tartar, 
add a small piece of lard, about as large as an Englisli 
walnut, one teasi)oonful of soda dissolved in one jDint of 
milk ; knead up very softly, roll and cut out. 



30 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 



MUFFINS, No. 1. 

One pint of new milk, one cup of sugar, one egg, a piece 
of butter the size of an Qgg, one q\\]} of yeast; stiff as 
j)ouncl-cake. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

Two cups of rye meal, one-half cup of yeast, one-half 
cup of sugar, three cuj^s of lukewarm water, one teasj^oon- 
ful of salt ; stir quite stiff with wheat flour. 

MUFFINS, No. 2. 

Three cups of flour, two cups of milk, including one egg, 
half cup of sugar, two teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, one ten- 
spoonful soda, piece of butter the size of a walnut. 

BROWT^ BREAD. 

One pint of sour milk, one cup of flour, one cup of In- 
dian meal, one cup of rye meal, two-thirds of a cup of mo- 
lasses, salt, one heaping teaspoonful of soda. Steam three 
hours. 

BUNNS, No. 2. 

One pint of milk, tw^o-thirds of a cup of yeast, three- 
fourths of a cup of butter ; mix up as bread, and rise over 
night ; then mix in three eggs, one and one-half cups of 
currants, two cups of sugar, one teaspoonful of saleratus. 
Let it rise until night, make them in cakes, and stand one 
hour before baking. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS, No. 2. 

One-half a pint of Graham flour, one-half a pint of wheat 
flour, one pint of milk, a pinch of salt. Bake in cups. 

METHODIST BROWN BREAD. 

Four cups of Indian meal, two cups of Graham meal, one 
cup of molasses, four cups of milk or water, one cup of 
yeast, one teaspoonful of soda. Mix, and steam seven or 
eight hours as soon as mixed. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 31 



PARKER-HOUSE ROLLS. 

Two quarts of flour, into which rub a large spoonful of 
lard, one i:)int of cold, boiled milk, one-quarter cup of 
sugar, one-half cuji of yeast ; make a hole in the flour, 
pour in the liquid, and let it rise over night; in the morn- 
ing knead, and let rise until noon ; then knead and roll out, 
cut out with a round cutter, and butter one half, turn the 
other half over onto it, and let rise until tea-time ; bake in 
a quick oven. 

MUFFINS, No. 3. 

One quart of milk, one quart of flour, three eggs drop- 
ped into the milk without beating. 

RYE CAKES. 

Two cups of rye meal, one cuj3 of flour, a little salt, one 
cup of sour milk, one-half cup of molasses, two-thirds of a 
spoonful of butter, one-half spoonful of soda; bake in 
gem-pans. 



VEAL CUTLETS. 

Cut the cutlets from the fillet and trim them to the size 
of a dollar ; take crumbs of bread grated fine, parsley and 
thyme chopped very fine, nutmeg, pepper and salt, mix 
them well together ; beat up the yolks of two eggs on a 
plate, dip the cutlets in them, roll them in the crumbs and 
fry in butter a light brown. Serve with a little brown 
gravy. 

POTTED PIGEONS. 

Place the pigeons, breast downward, in a porcelain ket- 
tle, near enough together to prevent moving; then fill 
the bodies with a well-seasoned dressing, add cold water 



32 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 

and a few cloves, cover tightly, and boil slowly for three 
or four hours ; toast some crackers, cover the pigeons with 
them and stew five minutes, dish them into a deep dish, 
thicken and season the gravy and pour over them. 

CHICKEN POT-PIE. 

Cut up the chicken as for chicken pie, put it in a kettle, 
cover it with water, add a little salt, and boil until tender : 
have ready a light, raised dough cut into squares, lay it on 
the top of the chicken, cover tightly aud boil fifteen min- 
utes (without raising the cover), lay the chicken into a 
deep dish, cover it with the crust, season and thicken the 
gravy and pour over it. 

FRIED CHICKENS, 

Cut up your chickens (if old parboil them; , have ready 
grated bread or crackers, rub them well in the crumbs and 
fry a liglit brown over a slow fire ; take them from the pan, 
put in a lump of butter rolled in flour ; when melted stir in 
half a pint of cream, return the chickens, allow them to 
simmer a sliort time, and when dished up f)our the gravy 
over them. 

PILAN. 

A TuPtKiSH Dish. — Prepare a beef soup, seasoned witli 
tomatoes, pepper and salt ; while it is boiling add half the 
quantity of rice well washed ; let the two boil together for 
twenty minutes, until the soup is absorbed by the rice ; 
melt quickly half a pound of butter, mix it immediately 
with the rice and serve in five minutes ; cut cold turkey or 
chicken in small pieces and mix with the rice while it is 
boiling and before adding the butter. 

BOUILLI BEEF. 

To bouilli a rump of beef weighing twenty pounds, it 
will take five or six hours to cook. Have the bone taken 
carefully out, wash the beef in cold water, tie it up nicely 
and put it in a very large pot full of cold water, T\ith the 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 33 

bone under the beef to prevent its burning ; put in eight 
onions, one-half of a red pepper in j^ieces, one turnip, two 
carrots cut in rounds, four potatoes, six tomatoes, if in sea- 
son, one head of celery, two dozen cloves and some salt ; 
let it boil as fast as possible, taking off the scum as it rises, 
until the water is reduced to one-third the original quantity ; 
then set it on the side to stew gradually ; when nearly done, 
tal:e the meat out and talie off the fat; brow^n some butter 
and flour in the frying-pan very carefully, stir it into the 
gravy, and return the beef to the pot for half an hour ; add 
to the gravy wiien sent to the table some pickles cut fine 
and a little tomato catsup. 



i\^. 



TO STEW A HADDOCK. 

Cut the fish in square pieces and sprinkle with salt, mace 
and cayenne pepper ; stew in a covered saucepan for fifteen 
minutes, then add one-half a pound of butter rolled in flour 
and half a tumbler of wane, and let it boil a few minutes 
more. Serve with the skin side up and the gravy in the 
same dish. No water to be used. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Four or five pounds of cod or haddock for an ordinary 
chowder. Cut your fish into convenient jDieces and have 
ready six large potatoes peeled and sliced, a quarter of an 
inch thick (four onions sliced, if you like) ; place your ket- 
tle on the fire until it is hot, then put in a half a pound of 
salt pork cut in slices, fry until the pork is crisp, then take 
it out and put in a layer of fish, potatoes and onions, and 
dredge in flour, salt and pepper ; continue this until you 
use all of the ingredients, cover with cold water and boil 

5 



34 BOSTOX RECEIPTS. 

thirty minutes ; when nearly dono, add a quart of milk and 

eight hard crackers that have been dipped in cold water ; 

boil five minutes. 

cla:m choavdek. 

Wash the clams, pour boiling water over them and let 
them scald ten minutes ; take them from the shell, cut off 
the black heads, separate the body from the hard part and 
chop the hard part very fine ; be sure to remove the trans- 
parent string in the body; then make the same as fish- 
chowder, using clams instead ; use a teacupful of the brotli. 

FRIED FISH. 

Fi-y slices of salt pork until crisp, roll the fish in Indian 
meal and fry a light brown in the fat. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Cut in thick slices and j^lace on a larded gridiron, broil 
slowly about twenty minutes, dish it, and rub over a little 
butter. Serve hot. 

CORNED HALIBUT, 

Sprinkle the fish with salt and let it remain over night ; 
in the morning dredge a little flour over it and bake in a 
quick oven half an hour. Serve hot. 

BOILED SALMON. 

Rub a little salt into the fish, flour a cloth, pin it up and 
put into boiling water ; allow ten minutes to a pound after 
it begins to boil. Serve with drawn butter or flsh-sauce. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

To one quart of solid oysters add one quart of milk and 
one quart of water ; remove all the scum which rises while 
it is cooking ; pound and sift two and one-half crackers and 
stir to a cream with a quarter of a pound of butter, and add 
to the milk just before it comes to a boil ; then take up im- 
mediately and serve. 

For scalloping oysters, see " Scalloped Tomato." 



BOSTON EECEIPTS. 35 



PUDDING SAUCE, No. 1 (^^^T^OUT BUTTER) . 

Beat together one cup of sugar and one Qgg, tliorouglily ; 
boil half a cup of milk (or cream, if you prefer), pour it 
boiling on the egg and sugar, stirring it well ; then stir in 
a little wine. 

LIQUID SAUCE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar beaten to a cream 
with one-half a teaspoonful of yanilla and two tablespoon- 
fuls of wine ; then add one-half a pint of boiling water. 

rUDDING SAUCE, No. 2. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one egg; beat 
to a light froth ; turn on one cup of scalding milk, then add 
one wineglass of wine. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 3. 

Two e2:gs beaten with one cup of sugar ; add this to four 
tablespoonfuls of boiling milk ; set this on top of the tea- 
kettle and stir until it thickens ; add wine or brandy. 

COLD-PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cup of white sugar, beaten with the whites of two 
eggs, one cup of cream ; flavor. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 4. 

Four tablespoonfuls of fine sugar, two of butter, one of 
flour; stir to a cream; white of one egg beaten to a stiff 
froth added ; pour into the dish a gill of boiling water, stir- 
ring very fast ; nutmeg and wine. 

MOORPAEK FISn SAUCE. 

Boil slowly a little lemon-peel in a pint of milk, thicken 
with a bit of butter rolled in flour ; then add two teaspoon- 



36 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 

fuls of essence of anchovy, and boil it up. If lialf (or less) 
cream be boiled with the milk, it will be still better. 



;Cc[t»^ii^^'*i anil ^int^crhtcuA* 

COOKIES, No. 1. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, half a 
cup of milk, one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls of 
cream-tartar ; flour to roll soft. 

PLAIN COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cUp of milk, 
one teaspoonful of soda, two teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, 
flour enough to roll. 

THIN MOLASSES GINGERBREAD. 

One pound of butter, one quart of West India molasses, 
one teacup of ground ginger, tuo teaspoonfuls of soda 
stirred into the molasses, flour enough to make it roll on 
tin sheets. 

CORSICAN GINGERBREAD. 

Two pounds of flour, one and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one pound of butter, nine eggs, one glass of wine and one 
of rose-water, a little ginger ; spread with a knife on the 
sheets. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of butter, two teaspoon- 
fuls of saleratus, two tablespoonfuls of ginger, little salt, 
flour sufiicient to roll it. 

JUMBLES, No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one-half cup of sweet milk, three eggs, spice ; as soft 
as you can roll smooth. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 37 



SEED CAKES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of caraways, two teaspoonfuls 
cream-tartar, one teaspocnful of scda, flour enough to roll 
smooth. Half the receipt makes many. 

COOiaES, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one cujd of butter, one cup of milk, 
one teaspocnful of saleratus, flour. 

JUMBLES, No. 2. 

Rub six ounces of butter into a quart of flour, then mix 
six ounces of sugar into three well-beaten eggs, mix all the 
ingredients together, and f-avcr to taste ; roll them out thin 
and cover with powdered loaf-sugar. 

SCOTCH COOKIES. 

Three-quarters of a pound of butter rubbed in one pound 
of f.our, three eggs, cne pound of brown sugar, four table- 
spoonfuls of cinnamon ; roll thin and bake in a quick oven. 

CURRANT COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, three cups cf s^ugar, one cup of cur- 
rants, one-half cup of milk or cream, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful cf scda, flavor with nutmeg and cinnamon, flour 
to make it rather stiff. 

BETHLEHEM COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, four eggs, cne cup of butter, tvvo 
tablespoonfuls of sour milk, one-half teaspocnful of soda, 
nutmeg ; stiff as you can roll. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of butter (boiled to- 
gether) ; stir in when hot ; one teaspocnful of soda, one tea- 
spoonful of ginger, one-half cup of sugar ; stir it stiff. 



88 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 



SNIPIDOODLES. 

One cup of sugar, one egg, one cup of flour, one-half 
cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonfnl of baking-powder in the 
flour, one tablespoonful of butter, butter and sugar beaten 
together, cinnamon ; bake in thin sheets, and sprinkle with 
sugar while hot. 

CANTERBURY COOKIES. 

Two cups of sugar, one ^gg, one cup of cream, one cup 
of butter, one teaspoonfnl of soda, five cups of flour. 

SOFT-SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Two and one-half cups of milk, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of butter, two eggs, one-half a teaspoonfnl of soda, 
one teaspoonfnl of cream-tartar and ginger. 

MOLASSES DROP CAKES. 

One cup of molasses, one-half a cup of butter, three 
cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls of ginger, one teaspoonful 
of soda. Beat the ingredients well together, and drop 
with a spoon on a buttered tin. 

NEW YORK GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter, one-half a 
cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, three eggs, one tea- 
spoonful cream-tartar, one-half a teaspoonful of soda, one 
tablespoonful of yellow ginger. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD, No. 1. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of molasses, one ^^g^ one 
cup of sour milk, one-half cup of melted butter, one-half 
tablespoonful of ginger, one tablespoonful of soda. 

GINGERBREAD, No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of butter, tliree 
eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda, two-thirds of a cup of 
milk, ginger ; soft as you can roll out. 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 89 



MOLASSES GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

Mix one cup of sngai', one-half cup of butter and two 
teaspoonfuls of ginger well together ; then take one egg, 
beat and mix with sugar and butter, one teaspoonful of 
soda in a cup of molasses, another teaspoonful of soda in a 
cup of sour milk, a scant teaspoonful of salt, flour to judg- 
ment. If the milk is sweet, leave out the last soda. 

SUGAR GINGERBREAD. 

Two pounds of flour, three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
one and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one-half tea- 
cupful of ginger, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in three tablespoonfuls of milk. Bake in sheets. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One and one-half pounds of sugar, one pound of butter, 
one cup of milk, eight eggs, ginger, one teaspoonful of 
soda, flour enough to make it hard enough to roll. 

BRIGHTON GINGERBREAD. 

One quart of molasses and one teacitpful of butter melted 
together on the stove, then add one tablespoonful of fine 
soda, one-half pint of milk, two-thirds of a cup of ginger ; 
mould hard with flour ; bake very thin. 

GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one-half cup of 
milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, two eggs. 



wtti gli.*}liu«» 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

1. Soak one ounce of gelatine in a pint of milk for two 
hours, then place it over the fire and stir until the gelatine 
is entirely dissolved, then remove, and when nearly cold 
beat thoroughly with an egg-beater. 2. Flavor one quart 
of cream with one tablespoonful of vanilla, one wineglass 



40 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 

of wine or brandy, and fine sugar to taste. 3. Ponr tlie 
two mixtures together, beat them thoroughly, then pour 
into moulds lined with sponge-cake, cut to lit; stand the 
moulds on the ice or in a cool place until wanted for use. 

TAPIOCA CUSTARD. 

Put foui' tablespoonfuls of tapioca to soak over night in 
a pint of water; in the morning add one quart of milk, put 
on the iiYQ and let it come to a boil, then stir in the j'olks of 
three eggs, one cup of sugar, salt and flavor ; turn it into 
a dish, and put the whites of the eggs, well beaten, on top. 
To be eaten cold. 

TAPIOCA CKEAM. 

Soak three tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca over night in 
two cupfuls of water ; in the morning boil three pints of 
milk, then stir into it three tablespoonfuls of corn-starch 
moistened with a little water, and the yolks of three eggs 
beaten with six tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little salt, and a 
teaspoonful of essence of lemon. Pour it into a dish, then 
beat the whites of three eggs with one cup of powdered 
sugar, and pour oveii the top ; put it in the oven and let it 
remain until a very delicate brown. To be eaten cold. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTAKD. 

One and one-half pints of milk, seven tablespoonfuls of 
sugar dissolved in the milk. Save out a little of the milk 
cold and dissolve in it three tablespoonfuls of corn-starch, 
one ounce of grated chocolate stirred in evenly. As you 
pour these together, stir continually ; then pour into cups. 

SPANISH CPEAM. 

One and one-half pints of milk, one-half ounce of gela- 
tine soaked in milk until dissolved. Peat the yolks of three 
eggs with four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and boil ; beat the 
whites cf the eggs to a stiff froth, after taking from the 
stove, and pour over. Flavor with vanilla. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Take one-half a box (one-ounce-and-a-half box) of shred 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 41 

gelatine, pour one-half a pint of cold water on, and let it 
stand a few minutes, then add a pint of hot water, and 
sweeten to taste ; flavor with either a little wine, vanilla or 
lemon, as you please ; put it over the fire and let it come to 
a boil, then strain it and set away to cool ; take a pint of 
good cream and whip it, and as the foam rises skim it off 
and put it over the jelly, before it has firmly congealed ; 
when you have all tlie foam which will rise from whipping 
the cream, pour all into the jelly and beat together, pour 
into a mould, and eat with sweetened cream. 

ICE CREAM. 

One quart of milk, one cup of sugar, two eggs, two tea- 
spoonfuls of corn -starch, a very little salt and flavor. Very 
nice made like soft custard. 

BLANC MANGE. 

One quart of milk, three heaping tablespoonfuls of corn- 
starch, a little salt and flavor. Place the milk over the fire, 
wet the corn-starch with a little cold milk, when the milk 
boils stir it in and boil two minutes. Use a farina-boiler. 



^antljT, 



BARLEY-SUGAR CANDY. 

One-half a pint of water, the white of one egg, one 
pound of sugar, a little grated lemon-peel ; boil until a 
piece will harden in cold water. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

One and one-half pounds of brown sugar, one-half pint 
of milk or cream, boil sugar and milk together fifteen min- 
utes, then add one-quarter of a pound of grated chocolate, 
butter the size of an egg, one teaspoonful of vanilla ; boil 
until thick; pour into buttered pans; when nearly cold 
mark in squares. 

6 



42 BOSTOX RECEIPTS. 



CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One-half pound of chocolate, tvvo large cups of sugar, 
one and one-half cups of molasses, one-half cup of milk, 
a piece of butter size of an Qgg. Boil from twenty min- 
utes to half an hour. Half of the quantity makes a good 
panful. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM-DPtOPS. 

One cup of powdered sugar, a quarter of a cup of cold 
water ; beat water and sugar together about a minute, then 
put on the stove. Be sure not to stir it when on the stove ; 
let it boil five minutes ; take it off, and let the saucepan 
stand in cold water, and stir until it becomes creamy; 
make it into balls and dip them into melted chocolate, 
dissolved by setting a dish of grated chocolate in hot water. 

MOLASSES CAXDY. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, a piece of butter 
the size of a large walnut ; boil until a piece will harden 
in cold water. 



RASPBERRIES. 

Mash the berries (weigh before mashing), add two- 
thirds the weight of sugar ; boil five minutes ; skim very 
carefully ; put into the jars while boiling hot, and seal im- 
mediately ; cook quickly, being careful not to let them 
burn. 

Blackberries done in the same manner. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Weigh, and add half the w^eight of sugar; let them re- 
main in the sugar all night, keeping them in a cool place. 
In the morning place over the fire ; when they come to a 
boil, can and seal immediately. 

Cherries done in the same manner. 



B0ST02^ BECEIPTS. *^ 

PINEAPPLES. 

rare and cut the pineapples in sn-all pieces ; allow o-" 
thii-a of a pound of sugar to a pound of frmt; !«' then e 
rnain in the sugar all night. In the mon«ng place o,ci 
ZZ; when they come to a boil, can and seal ™me- 
diately. Use nice fruit. 

Peel the pears with a^lvcr knife to prevent tui-ning 
dark hare ready a large dish of cold water, in wh.ch place 
tft-uUas fastis pe5ed until you have enough to pre- 
serve Weigh the fruit and put it over the fire ^^ ith cold 
;X enougl to cover; ,vhen the fruit is tcnde.^ add or^- 
ouarter of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit, bo. l.ve 
Sites, then put into the jars while boiling hot, and seal 
immediately. ^^^^^^ 

Prick the plums to prevent bu,^ting; add a pound of 
suo-ar to a pound of fruit, and let them stand o.ern.ght. 

n'-the morning place over the tire and boil five — s; 

put into the jars while boiling hot, and seal immediately. 

PEACHES. 

Peel and wei-h the peaches, allowing a quarter of a 
pomlf sugar To a poL of H-uit; P^- the whole m^ 
preserving-kettle and let remam over mght. In tl e mom 
L place over the fire and let remain two mnrutes afte 
coming to a boil, then put into the jars while boilmghot, and 
seal immediately. 

WINE JELLl. 

Pour one pint of cold water over one box of gelatine 
add one pin 'of sugar, the juice of one lemon^^tl^ee-qua,- 
ters of a pint of Sherry wine and one qnait ot bo.lm, 
water. Strain it into shallow dishes to cool. 

CUKEANT JEI.LY. 

Mash the eun-ants, put them on the stove until all the 
JX out, then put them into the jelly-bag. squee.e^ he 
juice out, add equal weight of sugar, skma, boil fifteen 
minutes. 



44 BOSTON RECEIPTS. 



CRAB- APPLE JELLY. 

Remove the stems and eyes and cut out any defects, then 
put them on the stove with as much water as will just cover 
them. Let them stew very slowly until they are very soft ; 
strain them, and add a pound of sugar to a pint of juice ; 
boil one-half hour, skim ; one peck makes about twenty- 
one tumblers. 

P>ARBERPtIES. 

One quart of barben-ies, one quart of molasses, let the 
molasses come to a boil, add berries, and boil thirty min- 
utes ; add sweet apples if jou like, and one extra quart of 
molasses. 

CRANBERRIES. 

Weigh your berries, put them in the kettle with water 
enough to cover, stew until tender, then add a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit, and boil ten minutes. 

QUINCES. 

Pare, quarter and core the quinces, weigh and steam 
them until tender; then put them into your preserving- 
kettle with the sugar (allowing a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit), add a little water, and boil five minutes. 



Picltks. 



SPICED CURRANTS. 

Five pounds of currants picked from the stems, four 
pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, cinnamon and 
cloves (put the spice in a muslin bag) ; put the vinegar 
and sugar together, let it come to a boil, and skim ; then 
put in the fruit and spice and boil slowly two hours. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One bushel of tomatoes, boiled until soft, squeeze 
through a hair sieve ; half a gallon of cider vinegar, one 
pint of salt, two ounces of cloves, one-quarter of a pound 
of allspice, two tablespoonfuls of cayenne pepper, three 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 45 

tablespoonfuls of black pepper ; chop fine a dozen onions, 
and add when the catsup is about half done ; boil about 
two hours, or until thick. In filling the bottles, leave room 
in the top to pour a little vinegar to prevent mould. 

SIIILLEY SAUCE. 

Twelve ripe tomatoes, two peppers, one large onion, two 
cups of vinegar, one-half cup of sugar, one tablespoonful 
of salt, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one of allspice, one 
of cloves, one nutmeg; simmer three hours. 

PICKLES. 

Pour on to the cucumbers, for three successive mornings, 
boiling water enough to cover, add a handful of coarse 
salt. The night before j)ickling throw on cold water, and 
drain ; put into jars with ground spice in a bag, sugar and 
salt enough to taste, alum size of an English w^alnut to 
each jar ; pour vinegar hot in each jar, and cover tight 
while hot. 

MANGOES. 

Lay' the melons in salt and water three days, after re- 
moving the inside ; then wipe them dry inside and out ; fill 
with small onions, tomatoes, raisins, horse-radish, wiiole 
peppers, cloves, whole cinnamon and white mustard-seed. 
Scald vinegar with alum, and cover well ; add a cup of 
brown sugar and peppers ; put in jars, and cover tight 

while hot. 

Ciiow-cno^v. 

One peck of green tomatoes, chopped, add one cup of 
salt ; let them stand over night ; drain them and add two 
green pepjDers, two onions, chopped, one cup of grated 
horse-radish, one cup of sugar, one tablespoonful of cinna- 
mon, two of cloves and two of allspice ; cover the whole 
with vinegar, and cook three hours. 

PICALLILLI. 

One peck of green tomatoes, sliced, ten onions, one tea- 
cupful of salt ; let them stand over night and drain; then 
add one teacupful of mixed cloves and allspice, one tea- 



46 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 

cupful of white mustard-seed, one pound of brown sugar ; 
cover with vinegar, and boil three hours. 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

To three quarts of fresh, ripe berries put one quart of 
good vinegar, let it remain one day, then strain, put to 
each pint of juice one pound of sugar ; boil the whole half 
an hour. 



^|j.*iccniint0tt.*j* 



CORN CHOWDER. 

Corn cut from twelve ears, boil it in two quarts of wat^r 
for two hours, add three onions (omit them if you choose), 
three slices of jjork, twelve potatoes, sliced, one quart of 
milk ; season to your taste. 

EGG CORDIAL. 

Beat the yolk of an egg with two teaspoonfuls of white 
sugar in a goblet, add two teaspoonfuls of wine or whis- 
key, and fill the goblet half full of milk, beat the white of 
Qgg very light and place upon the top. 

FLOUR GRUEL. 

Tie a teacupful of flour into a cloth, leaving a little room 
for it to swell, boil steadily for four or five hours, then take 
it out of the cloth and place in plate in a cool oven to dry 
thoroughly. When wanted for use, grate a tablespoonful 
and mix with a little cold milk, add a pint of boiling milk, 
a little salt, and boil five minutes. 

YEAST. 

Peel and boil eight medium-sized potatoes until soft, 
then mash and add a little boiling water, a teacup of flour, 
a little sugar and salt, then add three pints more of boiling 
water ; when lukewarm, add half pint of yeast ; keep in a 
cool place. 

WASHING BLANKETS. 

One-half pint of soft soap, two tablespoonfuls of pow- 
dered borax, cold water to cover; let them stand over 



BOSTON RECEIPTS. 47 

night ; rinse in tepid water two or three times ; no rubbing. 
(For one piece.) 

CURRANT WINE. 

Two gallons of water, one gallon of juice, eight pounds 
of sugar to one gallon when mixed. 

TO CLEAN BLACK SILK. 

One teaspoonful of powdered borax in one quart of tej^id 
water. 

FOR BURNS. 

Equal parts of linseed oil and lime water; shake the 
mixture well and bind on to the burn. This is also good 
for chilblains. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of shelled beans and a dozen ears of sweet 
corn ; boil the beans forty minutes, then cut the corn from 
the cob, add to the beans and boil fifteen minutes, add but- 
ter and salt, and serve. 

RICH PASTE. 

Four cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of lard, 
chopped together very fine; mix with ice-water. This 
quantity will make three pies, 

COMMON PASTE. 

Three cups of flour, one-half cup of butter and one-half 
cup of lard ; mix in the same manner. 

Brushing pies over the top crust with the white of egg 
improves their appearance. Soft crackers pounded and 
sifted improves squash pies. Allow one-half cracker to a 
pie. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Mix some dough as you would for quick biscuit ; bake in 
one cake on a round tin ; when it is baked split it open and 
butter it well. Have your berries prepared with sugar 
(and cream if you like) , put them upon the lower crust of 
your cake and place the upper one over it. 

MACCAROONS, 

Beat together two cups of flour, one-half cup of butter. 



48 BOSTON BECEIPTS. 

one cup of sugar and one egg ; stir the mixture together, 
flavor with almond, mould in small cakes and dip in dry 
sugar ; bake brown. 

GERMAN POTATOES. 

Wash and peel your potatoes, lay them in cold water ; 
about half an hour before your roast is done put them in 
the pan with your meat. If your potatoes are large, cut 
them in halves. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Yolks of two raw eggs mixed with a teaspoonful of dry 
mustard, oil i^ut in gradually until quite thick ; thin it with 
vinegar until it is as thick as cream; add teaspoonful of 
salt. Teacup of Lucca oil for this quantity. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Open the lobster carefully, take out all the meat, chop it 
coarse, add a little vinegar, and let it stand a few hours ; 
chop some celery or lettuce, add this with the salad-dress- 
ing the last thing before serving. 

Chicken salad the same, using boiled chicken instead of 
lobster. 

BOILED COFFEE. 

Allow a tablespoonful of ground coffee to each i^erson 
and one extra, break and stir an eg^ into the coffee, add 
the shell, fill the pot half full of boiling water, boil three 
minutes, remove it, j^our out a cupful and turn it back, add 
a little more boiling water, and let it settle five minutes. 
Serve it with hot milk or cream. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Pick your beans over carefully and soak them in cold 
water over night. In the morning draw oft" the water and 
put them into fresh cold water, place them over the fire 
and i)arboil until by blowing them the skins will crack, 
thoroughly drain them, put them into the beanpot with a 
little salt and a piece of fat salt pork gashed on the top, 
allowing a pound of pork to a quart of unsoaked beans ; 
fill the pot with boiling water, and bake in a moderate 
oven eight hours, adding water occasionally as it cooks 
away. 



\ 



M 



