CIHM 


fCMH 


Microfiche 


Collection de 


Series 


microfiches 


(Monographs) 


(monographies) 




Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions/lnstitut canadien de microreproductions historiques 



"^^^ tb^ ^^v ^^p ^^v 



storiques 



Technical and Bibliographic Notes / Notes techniques et bibliographiques 



Th3 Institute has attempted to obtain ttie best original 
copy available for filming. Features of this copy which 
may be bibliographically unique, which may alter any of 
the images in the reproduction, or which may 
significantly change the usual method of filming are 
checked below. 







Coloured covers / 
Couverture de couleur 



□ Covers damaged / 
Couverture endommagee 

□ Covers restored and/or laminated / 
Couverture restauree et/ou pelliculee 

I I Cover title missing / Le titre de couverture manque 

I I Coloured maps / Cartes geographiques en couleur 

□ Coloured ink (i.e. other than blue or black) / 
Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire) 

I I Coloured plates and/or illustrations / 



Planches et/ou illustrations en couleur 

Bound with other material / 
Relie avec d'autres documents 



n 



n 



Only edition available / 
Seule edition disponible 

Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion along 
interior margin / La reliure serree peut causer de 
I'ombre ou de la distorsion le long de la marge 
interieure. 

Blank leaves added during restorations may appear 
within the text. Whenever possible, these have been 
omitted from filming / Use peut que certaines pages 
blanches ajoutees lors d'une restauration 
apparaissent dans le texte, mais, lorsque cela etait 
possible, ces pages n'ont pas ete filmees. 



L'Institut a microfilme le meilleur exemplaire qu'il lui a 
ete possible de se procurer. Les details de cet exem- 
plaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du point de vue bibli- 
ographique, qui peuvent modifier une image reproduite, 
ou qui peuvent exiger une modification dans la metho- 
de normale de filmage sont indiques ci-dessous. 

I I Coloured pages / Pages de couleur 

I I Pages damaged / Pages endommagees 



D 



Pages restored and/or laminated / 
Pages restaurees et/ou pelliculees 



Pages discoloured, stained or foxed / 
Pages decolorees, tachetees ou piquees 



v/ Pages detached / Pages detachees 



I \/\ Showthrough / Transparence 

Quality of print varies / 
Qualite inegale de I'impression 



D 
D 



D 



includes supplementary material / 
Comprend du materiel supplementaire 

Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata slips, 
tissues, etc., have been refilmed to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages totalement ou 
partiellement obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une 
pelure, etc., ont ete filmees a nouveau de fagon a 
obtenir la meilleure image possible. 

Opposing pages with varying colouration or 
discolourations are filmed twice to ensure the best 
possible image / Les pages s'opposant ayant des 
colorations variables ou des decolorations sont 
filmees deux fois afin d'obtenir la meilleure image 
possible. 



D 



Additional comments / 
Commentaires supplementaires: 



Pages 131 and 132 are missing. 



F 



This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below / 

Ce document est filme au taux de reduction Indique ci-dessous. 



lOx 








14x 








18x 








22x 






26x 






30y 


























s/ 














1 

1 






OOw 






12x 








16x 








20x 






24x 








9Ay 







The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks 
to the generosity of: 

Kings County Historical and Archival 
Society Inc., Library 

The images appearing here are the best quality 
possible considering the condition and legibility 
of the original copy and in keeping with the 
filming contract specifications. 



Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed 
beginning with the front cover and ending on 
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. Ail 
other original copies are filmed beginning on the 
first page with a printed or illustrated impres- 
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed 
or illustrated impression. 



The last recorded frame on each microfiche 
shall contain the symbol — *• (meaning "CON- 
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END"), 
whichever applies. 

Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at 
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be 
entirely included in one exposure are filmed 
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to 
right and top to bottom, as many frames as 
required. The following diagrams illustrate the 
method: 



L'exemplaire filmd fut reproduit grace it la 
g^n^rositd de: 

Kings County Historical and Archival 
Society Inc., Library 



Les images suivantes ont 6t6 reproduites avec le 
plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et 
de la nenet4 iie l'exemplaire film6, et en 
conformity avec les conditions du contrat de 
filmage. 

Les exemplaires originaux dont la couverture en 
papier est imprimde sont film6s en commencant 
par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la 
dernidre page qui compone une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second 
plat, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires 
origiraux sont film*s en commenpant par la 
premiere page qui comporte une empreinte 
d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par 
la dernidre page qui comporte une telle 
empreinte. 

Un das symboles suivants apparaitra sur la 
dernidre image de cheque microfiche, selon le 
cas: le symbole — *• signifie "A SUIVRE", le 
symbole V signifie "FIN ". 

Les cartes, planches, tableaux, exc, peuvent etre 
filmAs d des taux de reduction diff6rents. 
Lorsque le document est trop grand pour etre 
reproduit en un seul clich6, il est film6 d partir 
de Tangle supirieur gauche, de gauche A droite, 
et de haut en bas, en prenant Is nombre 
d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants 
illustrent la mdthode. 



1 


2 


3 




1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHA'T 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No, 2) 



1.0 



f.l 



1.25 



!i'ir ill 3.2 



Si; 



)3.6 



II4.C 



1.4 



11= 

[ 2.2 
2.0 

1.8 
1.6 



^' d?ELIED IM/1GE 



I6SJ Last Mom Street 

Rochester, New York U609 USA 

('161 48? -OMO- Phone 

{^16) 288 ~ 5989 - Fox 



4 



m 



V 



'M 






y-k 



=t| 



llj. 


iiN^ 


w M 


' i"K n 


''■ ■ 


1 w'X 


* M|i i 


Hi 



IV 



# 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



1 






* 



t; 



» 



^ 



i^^i 



S£ 



i: 



TRIED, TESTED, PROVED. 



» 



THE 



Home Cook Book. 



COMPILED FROM RECIPES CONTRIBUTED BY LADIES OF TORONTO AND 

OTHER CITIES AND TOWNS: PUBLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT 

OF THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN. 



TOEONTO, CANADA : 

Belford Brothers, Publishers. 



MDCCCLXXVII. 



Kiitfiea acconlin^ to Act of tlio Piirli.unont of Caniidii, in tho your 
Olio thoiisaiKl oiKht liiiinlrcd and sovont.y sevoti, by Uklkoiii) 
JinoTiir.Hs, in tlio Ofiico of tho Minister of Agricultuio. 



T no ITT & Todd, 

rHINTEUH AND STERI.OTYrEns. 



Hunter, Rose & Co., Binders, 

TORONTO. 



A 



1/ 



!#»«^« 



mmmaamt •rti*>**w»w»-tt. .',-T2i. ga^;3 



INDEX. 



EltS, 



I'UKFACK 

UOUSKKKEPIN(} Hxact K;;i;M;c.^ WaU^hfuhH^ss; l.n;u,ptuoBH.Hon.o 

I' oolmg, Cunifoit, Clotliiuj,', I'ooil, Sorv.uita 
T\IJLE TAl K_Uet>uomoi.t, Uof-ularity, Sotting of* Table;" SorviiiK 

liUiidi, Diiinor, (^i-ockory, Dining' U(,omi 
niNNF-. KTiyirETTE-InvitationH. When to' Arrive; Intmh.^tion^; 

»untmo, Getting to Tabic. Table. Order of Wiuos, In.livi.lnMl 

iitiqiiotto 



TAors. 
5 

0-18 

I'.i— 2;t 




Rmn^f'^''~'''"°''°"'^'''°''''''''^''-"''I"»Waro;stoneWare.Br^ 



SOUPS 



37-42 
43—47 
4a— 49 



FISH 50-02 

MEATS 75-86 

SALADS, SAUCESrAND PICKLES ^^~^*^ 

SWEET PICKLES ,. '"^'^^^^^ 100-123 

SOUll PICKLES " 124-125 

VEGETABLES ' 110-154 

PUDDINGS 155-165 

PUDDING SAUcJeS 100-201 

PIES 202-20,5 

CUSTAEDS, CREAMS,' ETC 200-217 

ICES 218—231 

FRUITS 232-237 

CANDY .'."'.*.' 23&-258 

BREAD AND YEAST 259-204 

WEIGHTS AND MEASURES 205-294 

CAKES •■ 294 

DRINKS 295—341 

M1SCELLANEOTT8 »12-352 

SICK ROOM. AND MEDICINAL RECEIPTS ^" " ^''" 

BILLS OF FARE . "J^i-J'ai is 370-380 

381-384 



I 



il 



I 



I 



'0**^-^ 



S-^Mf-. 



THE 



r 



f^ 



««' 



Home Cook Book, 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



Word of ptcc to women ; wor.l timt makoH hor the 

ttachment fro,n those at home, an.l a so„,l r..|,o,- rf 

hose ha are without. Success iu hou.s;koer Is 

credit to the woman of intellect, and lustre to a wom™'^ 

c ed,t..ble tor any woman to he without as for a man not 

oTohs " r Z;^' "'"-^ " ''™'' ''" «"<"' «" »"»'. over 
so l,ol,.hed a gentleman ; if deficient in these points of 

»oll-in.eservafon you set him down for a wealchu and 
his real weight in society goes for very 1 tX 5', 
.-tter how talented a worn,™ n..ay he i- f^^^tl M 
1.0 church or society, if she is an , ,,iftw n ho ," 

and a blemish m her garments. ' 



10 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



11 



Housekeeping ought not to be taught in classes and by 
professors ; though when early training is lacking they 
may be of use. It is one of those things to be imbibed 
without effort in girlhood, instead of being taken up at 
marriage and experimented on with varying certainty for 
the rest of one's natural life. There is no earthly reason 
why girls, from eight to eighteen, should not learn and 
practice the whole round of housekeeping, from the first 
l)eating of eggs to laying carpets and presiding at a din- 
ner party, at the same time that they go on with music, 
languages, and philosophy. The lessons would be all the 
better learned if, instead of sitting down at once out of 
school hours, the girl was taught to take pride in keeping 
her room nice, or in helping about such work as canning 
fruit for the season, hanging clean curtains, or dusting 
every day. The wealthiest women of the oldest families 
in society are not above seeing to these things themselves, 
and they know how it should be done. They were bred 
to it as part of a lady's duty. But if a woman finds her- 
self ignorant or half taught how to keep house, there is 
nothing so difficult to learn that she may not be proficient 
in a year or two at most. An intelligent woman will suc- 
ceed in most duties at first trying. Housekeeping is an 
exact science, and works like the multipHcation table if 
one only has learned it. But if one is shaky in figures 
how is he ever to keep accounts ? There is no chance 
about housekeeping. If Mrs. Smith's sitting room is 
always neat and fresh, it is because she sweeps it with tea 
leaves, and sponges the carpet with ox gall, and dusts it 
with a damp cloth, and keeps a door mat on the porch, 
and sends the boys back every time to use till they get the 



!S and by 

ing they 

imbibed 

en up at 

ainty for 

y reason 

jarn and 

the first 

at a din- 

h music, 

)e all the 

ce out of 

I keeping 

canning 

■ dusting 

families 

mselves, 

^ere bred 

inds her- 

there is 

)roficient 

will suc- 

ing is an 

I table if 

1 figures 

3 chance 

room is 

with tea 

i dusts it 

le porch, 

y get the 



HOrSEKEEPING. jj 

habit of keeping clean. While you hang a newspaper 
before the what-not and throw one over the work table 
sweep with a soft broom, butting the ]>road side of it at 
every stroke against the mouldin-^ : instead of carryin.^ 
all the dust clean from the cre.i >. .lext the wall by" one 
engthwise sweep with the co.:..or of the brooni, you 
blow the dust off some places ami giye a hasty rul, at 
others ; pass the stoye with a touch from the hearth 
brush mstead of blacking it, and Ic^t the boys track in 
mud and dust enough to deface a new carpet its fu-yt 
season while you take it out in scolding-which was 
neyer known to brighten rooms yet. So, when your 
feather cake fails, though you made it precisely by the 
rule which the other day came out like bleached sponcre 
there is a yery good reason for it, you did not stir it lis 
much as the first time, or you beat it a little too long and 
lost he best efferyescence of your soda, or your bakin^ 
powder had been left open a few minutes at a time on 
baking days and lost strength. By practicing the same 
recipe carefully all these and other points fix themselyes 
ni your mmd, so that success is certain. Those clever 
cooks, whose success is so much a matter of instinct 
ol)serve all these points unconsciously each time, and' 
lay It to luck! There's no such word in housekeeping 
ihis labour does not only mean keeping things clean 
and having plenty to eat. It goes from the outside of 
«ie house to the inside of the travelling-bags of those 
who leave it. The mistress must observe the outside of 

her house regularlv: on Sa+in-.ln.- io +i,.. ..,.,,4 __,_ . , 

,. , ."? . • " - -^'^-■" J '•■ t^i^ iiiOnt cuiivenient 

time to see if window-blinds need washing, if tho catches 
are in repair, if the shades inside hang straight, and the 



12 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



curtains drape well, if tho walks, steps, aud piazzas are 
neat, and the door knobs and paint in order, making a 
note of every want, and having it attended to nt once. 
Dexterity with tools is very convenient to any one, and I 
have known accomplisliod women who would set a pane 
of glass, put on a door knob, and hang a gate in the best 
style. One of the valued contributors to the New York 
press is a woman wdio reads Plorace in Latin, and 
Bastiat's political economy, makes point-lace and em- 
broid.'rs beautifully, who at the gold mines with her 
husband built the ehimney to her house, and finislied 
most of the interior with her own hands. A little care, 
weekly, kee])s a place in that bright order that so attracts 
and welcomes one at sight. It looks as if whole people 
lived in it, with Hve sensibilities ajd intelligence. In- 
doors the same spirit is refiected. The bell-pull never is 
left for weeks after it gets loose, the gas burners are never 
suffered to leak, or grow dim ; the kerosene lamps are 
large enough to give good light, and of the best pattern 
for safety, and for the eye. The stoves are the open 
''Fireside" kind, the modern version of the old Franklin 
stoves— giving the ventilation and delight of an open fire, 
burning either coal or wood, with bars and fender like a 
grate; yet, capable of being shuL up as tightly as any 
base-burning heater by two tight fitting covers that may 
be removed and put away at pleasure. The health, the 
comfort, the luxury of such an addition makes up for 
many a deficiency beside. The carpet was well-chos-u 
at first iu small figure and warm colours of good (luality, 
whether Brussels or three-ply, and it looks well tm long 
as it lasts, and kept clean by shaking twice a year, 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



13 



laid straight and stretched smooth over a soft lining, 
which saves the carpet and saves noise ; darned at 
the first break with wool, matching the pattern, it will 
not bo shabby in ten years. It is pleasant to have 
thmgs last with the family, and grow to seem a part 
ol it. The true sentiment of the sharp, genteel woma.:, 
was expressed by the housekeeper who "liked to 
have her carpets wear out so she could have new 
ones." She let lodgings to have company, and money 
to dress by, against her husband's wish, and her 
only dread was that of "settling down and having a lot 
of children with no theatres, no opera, nobody to see." 
The home feeling, the attachment that grows for the 
pleasant enduring objects of daily use is one of the rare 
plants of sentiment that the housekeeper does well to 
cherish. There should be care at first to have things 
agreeable and handsome as possible, that they need not 
be a daily eyesore, and there need be no reason for wish- 
mg them to wear out. Manufactures constantly add 
service to trade by placing better patterns in rrach of 
moderate pursers. Thus, the mottled carpets in oak and 
brown, ash and crimson, maroon and elm-leaf yi-llow, 
with l)orderB to match, so admired in velvet au<l' J3rus- 
sels, are found in fine threc-plysand ingrain, and in the 
newer Venetians of hemp and wool, liketbe old-fashion- 
ed stair carpet that lasts so long. A wcml f,)r these new 
\ enetians, which is on account of their artistic quality, 
likely to be overlooked, because they are so cheap. All 
the best colours and patterns of Ih-ussels, in two shades, 
in mottled, moss or leaf designs, are afforded in this 
carpet, which is durable as the cimscience of a house- 



14 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



keeper could exact. Two rules are enough for the looks 
01 a carpet ; choose small figures and avoid contrasts of 
colour. Small figures, however, have difierent mean- 
ings to different people. As a rule, a small figure is not 
more than three inches at most, any way across. Very 
very few rooms there are, hut look hetter with carpets 
of small design. Then the oil-cloth under the stove 
must match, ii possihle, and he hound with leather 
strips to ket^p the edge from getting unsightly. The 
woodbox or basket is covered with wool work on canvas 
or applupie of bright cloth on Turkish toweling, makin- 
a handsome bit of furniture. A scrap basket, with ap! 
phque border, and a bright lining, goes far toward keep- 
ing a room tidy. The mistress will try to have her 
rooms in keeping with the style by a few pieces of furni- 
ture in the fashion of the day, a Turkish chair embroid- 
ered in wools, a straight-l)acked one in unbleached 
towelmg and appliqiu' of crimson, blue, Idack and gold, 
a stand covered with velvet, or a home-made easel with 
the single good picture the house affords on it, a jar- 
diniei-i; of titles or wickerwork in the window, or a 
bamboo lounge, things not expensive in themselves, yet 
lencliug a graceful air to quiet surroundings. As for 
chairs, solas and himbrequins, artists have been insist- 
ing on chintz for the last ten years, and women have as 
steadily bought woollen reps, which the doctors tell us 
harbours dust, absorbs vitiated matter from the air, and 
is absolutely dangerous in disease from the contagion it 
holds. But women of the best taste, who like to have 
their rooms pretty, will choose chintz, when they can- 
not aftbrd silk and satin, and often when they can, for 
its intrinsic beauty. 






"■<s**»ais««l.' 



her 



for 



I 



r 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



15 



It IS of more account to have broad seats and deep 
cushions to chairs and sofas, than to have them covered 
with rich materiah See that there are plenty of low seats 
in your sitting-room, for much of the furniture seen is 
of very little use for rest and ease, points essential to 
the health and comfort of women and children. If a 
woman will only start with the intention of making her 
house comfortable, she will gain all the admiration she 
wants. There are many elegant rooms in private 
houses, where there are only one or two that come up to 
the idea of comfort. Now that is a very important word 
one that cannot be infringed on without losing health. 
The mistress of a house must see that it is ventilated 
from top to bottom, by having every window and the 
skylight, if there is one, open at least once a day— if 
possible when the sun is shining. She is responsible 
for the health of the household, and must allow no scent 
of decay, whether from vegetables or meat, barrels or 
refuse in the cellar, no slops anywhere about the prem- 
ises, no mouldering food in closets, no confined bed- 
rooms or closets with old clothes or soiled linen to taint 
the air, no dead, musty smell in any room, however 
seldom used, no sickly smell escaping from rooms where 
there is illness. She must see that fires are started as 
early in the fall and kept as late in the spring as the 
weakest, chilliest of her family desires, for these slow 
chilly days take more life, and play more mischief with 
nerves and blood than she could bear to think of, could 
she see their effects. She must look after the clothing 
from a hygienic view, to see that her children and fam*' 
ily are wai-m enough and cool enough, so warding off 



10 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



many ai, attack of cramps, coiiglm and neuralgia. The 
foo.] must b. of the Lost quality, an.l sh. must lno,r that 
It IS. It pays to give an extra shillino- <,„ tho half barrel 
for selected potatoes and apples, as they go farther and 
make more muscle than poor on.s, and don't poison 
anybody. Sharp scrutiny of ..o,s, meat, butter, and 
milk, 18 a benefit to others as well as her own family 
by raising the standard of provisions, besides more direct 
gam. More disease comes into the world in the shape 
of tainted butter and milk, than any one dreams of but 
the doctors. II she gets the hygienic craze about food 
don t let her carry it to the verge of confounding things 
iH-althful ' with things uneatable, for badly cooked 
oatmeal and graham "gems" are as distressing to deli- 
cate organisms as the richest mince pie and old cheese 
together. That slight sour tinge, which nobody noticed 
in the home-made bread, that solid pudding, which yet 
was not <p,ite rejected at dessert, are rc-sponsible for the 
>ad breath of the children and the beginning of a sick 
headache in their elders. Never be satisfied with any 
l>nt the nicest cooking, with var-'^ty enough to make 
your table a dc-light as well as a necessity. And don't 
et anybody lay it to you that you are pampering your 
family, and devoting yourself to a low sphere of action, 
lou are dmng no such thing, but are giving them strong, 
active bodies, steady nerves and tempers, and clear 
brams to meet their work with. Jiy just so much 
as you neglect your part of the work, tliey will fail in 
theirs, lou are the engineer to feed the fires, and 
keep the wheels oiled, and tho whole family svstem 
depends on you. Don't dare to call such work low 



! 



-"Wiii*^ 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



17 



V 






There is a great work to be done in American kitcliens. 
lou may and ougiit to delegate as much to hired helpers 
as you can, but you rjM see that all is done as it should 
be. And one receipt lor training service is given, that is 
the whole secret in a nut-shell. If child or servant leaves 
anything undone, or ill-done, don't scold, but insist on 
having It done immediately as it ought to be. Put the 
badly ironed shirts in the basket to be done over, have 
the house-girl who left the china badly washed, take it 
out ol the closet and do it right, time after time, and let 
her get tired of doing her work over before you get tired 
of telling her. It is no harder to do work nicely than to 
half do it, indeed the careless way is the "hardest. 
Finally, let your housekeeping be as hberal as you can. 
Whether well-to-do, or in narrow circumstances, you will 
hold that waste is a sin, against yourself and the world. 
By keeping strict account of every cent received and paid 
out, you can gauge your means, laying by what is proper, 
but within that limit be good to yourself and vours. Make 
the most of your money. Jt was no less a divine than 
the orthodox Doctor John Hall, who said that, of the two 
faults, he had far rather see people extravagant than 
penurious. Stint m)\vhere in cleanliness, light, and 
warmth, and let what you have be the best and prettiest 
for the cost. By thesg things men live, in body at least, 
and the soul is very dependent on its surroundings, or 
at any rate greatly assisted by favourable ones. It is an 
every-day wonder to see how little rich people get for their 
money ; the common-place houses, with so Httle that is 
light or striking or original in them, the dull service, the 
narrow round of enjoyments. In some sense housekeep- 



18 



THE HOME CCOK BOOK. 



mo t, compas»,„g ,l„Ke„It ends with invention. Tho«e 

tt 1 ■: r" 77 "'"'"'"'™^- N^^^' «""'' «-t -y- 

Everywhere there are people living in en.all common ways 
e a"s« i;ey are absolutely afraid of the expense o rTe 
notice which a plcasanter life would brinR. Half the 
nice ie» of life involve only care to secure tLm^^milt 
a dollai of expense. Good manners cost nothin.^ -ood 
taste IS saving, and good housekeeping act«ally°„mkes 
money. Though this book is an lid lo the Sous 
housekeeper m one direction only, that is on ihe way to 

How IS It that the most brilliant and cleverest nation in 
he world has also the best cooking? p„t these tilings 
together, and do your best according to their result 












• ■•^■:mmmssat»^ 






TABLd: TALK. 



In all attempts at refinement, one cardinal point 
should be kept in view— that manners were made for 
men, not men for manners. Nice customs courtsey to 
g-eat kings, and the greatest of these is convenience. 
Most rules will be found to serve convenience, and there 
18 no good breeding where etiquette is not observed for 
this end, the order and comfort of all concerned, uot for 
the sake of definining one's social position. When any 
one begins to study manners as a set of arbitrary rules, 
followed because every other desirable acquaintance 
does the same, politeness breeds a sort of pharisaism 
that the best bred persons look down on as supremely 
vulgar. If any mistress of a house looks here for rules 
that will aid her to affect a trifle more of style than her 
neighbours she will only be disappointed. If any 
woman wishes hints how to reauce her household to 
regularity and make her children neat and gentle in 
habits, it may be that she will not And this chapter in 
vain. 

Martinet regularity as to hours and minutes is no 
longer held the saving virtue in a household. The rule 
in many families keeps all the rest waiting for a meal 
if one is tardy. Modern custom both for the family and 



20 



THE IIOMK COOK BOOK, 



at of lioso ..xiu.etc,!. No guest sl,o„l,l f.„| „V„„tal 

.. «,t , tU,,«.„„. eaiv as for a dinner ,,art.. This 
8 the „„Iv ,.„y t„ insure succos-, for hostL.s an.l ser- 
vaUer",!";' "T 7 ""'"'' °"' ""^ Sivcs mistress and 
t s just as eas^ „» e-mmon ways, and no sudden vis- 

elul and the housemother should see that a man finds 

uni ; i T"? " ''"'"" "" '"' ''"^'^ "»>■"■'"■'■« '•)«'■• 

gence b of one „ „„„ house, and it should he of th,. ut- 
most n,ce y. Why should it he too much to „ ovile 

at Thl't", ;'";?"" "'''"■'^'""' ""■'•'• ■■'' ''™- - -11 a 

Iv^' ,"" r; ","' '"" "'"•'' '■'"• "'•■ "■""'■.nont it 

V ^. We should then exjieet to see the tahle snrea.l 

"■ . . snowy eloth, less starched than „,any house- 

-cepc, s tlnnk necessary, finish and pliancy given 1 y 

plenty of wax in the starch, which wil keep it clea t e 

™.nd, and he pi„n„l up at the corners to keep'it r 
the floor , necessary. For ceren.onious occasions a 

piot.et a hands„„,e tahle, keep the upper cloth from 



I 



% 



TAHLE TALK. 



21 



wearing, and because dishes make less noise when set 
down on it. 

For ])reakfast the coflfee is set before the mistress, the 
cups and spoons ranged in their saucers in front of it, in 
two rows if there are many of them; th meat and 
phites, which shouhl he warm, before the master; salt, 
l»utter and castor at the corner to the right of both, 
head and foot, if the tabic is a large one, when two Hots 
of these things will bo convenient. Otherwise put them 
in the centre with the dishes in regular order around 
them, and relishes at the corners. To meet this order, 
it is a trifle to have dishes in pairs of the same size, and 
use them always together for different things. Fruit, 
whether berrios, bake.l apples, or pears, is served first 
at breakfast, then oatmeal or wheaten grits, now found 
on every good table in cities at least, then meats and 
vegetables, with toast, hot cakes and coffee following. 
Hot rolls come wrapped in a napkin to keep them warm, 
griddle-cakes between two hot plates, and all meats 
covered-. Baked potatoes are scrubbed with a manilla 
brush, the ends cut off, rinsed twice, and eaten without 
paring, as the best flavour goes with the skin. This is 
the custom with the best society in this country and 
abroad. Eggs are washed with a cloth in cold water 
before boihng, and eaten in egg cups from the shell, 
chipping the small end off, or broken into larger glasses,' 
or held in the napkin and eaten from the shell with 
entire good form, in either method. Where individual 
salt-cellars are used they should be emptied after each 
m(>al, and the salt thrown away, that one person may 
not use it after another, and they should be very small, 



22 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



that there be less wasted. Butter should be piled round 
a lump of ice in little pats. To be very nice, as many 
have learned to like it from living abroad, it should be 
cliurned daily from perfectly sweet cream, worked with- 
out being touched by the hands or with water, and with- 
out a particle of salt. Thus it has the delicate flavour 
of cream at its best. Honey is especially a breakfast 
delicacy, and so is maple syrup, which should be served 
in small saucers to be eaten with hot biscuit. A basket 
of crisp cakes, toasted rusk and crackers, will accom- 
pany coffee. 

For lunch the coloured table cloths may be used if 
ever, though their use is gradually dropped because the 
colours do not wash well. White cloths with striped 
border in colourp, or fine gray or unbleached damask, 
with napkins to match, assist the easy half-dress style 
of this repast. Cups of broth and thick chocolate, Vvith 
light meats, hashes, croquettes, and stews. Salad and 
fruit are the staple variety, and rather more attractive 
than the cold meat, tea and cracker fare too often set 
apart for this hurried meal. Nowhere is negligence 
more annoying than at luncheon, and the cloth, glasses, 
and arrangements should be fastidiously neat to do 
away with the disagreeable feeling that every})ody is too 
busy with drudgery to look after comfort. Insist that 
the girl m'Iio waits on the table has her hair neat, her 
hands washed, and a clean apron and collar on. An 
unkempt servant will spoil the ])est dinner appetite was 
ever sharp-set for. Ceremonious lunches mean an 
hour's visit with a meal, at which salads, shell-fish, 
chops, in paper frills, and broiled chicken play a part, 
with ices, tarts, and fancy cakes for dessert. Mixed 



TABLE TALK. 



23 



drinks, like Eegent's punch, or claret sup, with ale and 
beer, are more in keeping at lunch than wines. These 
drinks are served from the side-board, the malt liquors 
in common goblets, the claret cup in tumblers, the 
punch in small cups. Beef tea is taken from cups held 
in small saucers, or in small Chinese bowls, with little 
saucers. The absence of all ceremony with the presence 
of light charming detail makes the luncheon attractive. 
For dinner, the family table wants to have less the air 
of hotel arrangements. More delicate napery and ware, 
whether the latter is only " seconds," or the fmest egg- 
shell china ; lighter, more convenient, knives and forks, 
and heavier teaspoons, nice thin glass for drinking, 
thick cut crystal for sweets, with above all things a well 
kept cruet stand, make the difference in favour of home 
taste and home comfort. Keep all cracked and nicked 
ware from the table. Buy nothing that cannot be 
replaced without regret, but let each article be the best 
of its material. There is choice in the quality of stone 
ware and blown glass as well as in the shapes of each. 
The plainest is always most satisfactory of inexpensive 
things. The old fashion of furnishing dining-rooms in 
dark and heavy styles is reversed. The room is light, 
cheerful, warm in colour, the chairs broad and substan- 
tial, the table lower than it used to be, two points which 
add sensibly to the comfort of those who use them. 
Have the chair feet shod with rubber tips which come 
for the purpose, or if on castors, cover the wheel with 
rubber so that they can move without noise. See that 
the room is light and especially warm, for people want 
comfort at meals of all times, and they feel the cold 
more in sitting. 



DINNER ETIQUETTE. 



Directions for a coremoniouH dinner naturally include 
those for the family table, as much form in serving 
being kept as may be convenient. The number of guests 
lor a state dinner rarely exceeds twelve. 

Written invitations are always complimentary and in 
liner style than any other for small pai'ies, but persons 
who entertain often, have engraved cards with blanks 
left lor the name of guest, and date, for convenience. 
The following is a form adopted for dinner cards, a 
large, nearly square form being used : 

Mr, and Mrs. 



Request the pleasure of 

- Company (tianio.) 

date and No. 

- - -o'clock. 

The favour of an answer is requested, 
(or) E. B. V. p, 

For a gentleman's party the host's name alone 
appears on the invitation. An early answer must be 
sent m all cases, either to accept or dt-cline. Not to do 
so IS the grossest rudeness. 





I 




tow 




nee 




par 




an( 




IV^r 




nai 




gU( 




wo 




tat 




tht 




1 




pa] 


.i 


gla 




us 




sh( 




tin 




ini 




0C( 




dh 




ar 




ro( 




th 




or 




hi 




he 




be 




eil 




to 




in 









DINNER ETIQUETTE. 



25 



Invitations are always sent to persons in the same 
town by private messenger. Outside envelopes are 
necessary only when sent by mail to another city. No 
particular excuse need l)e sent. It is enough to say " Mr. 

and Mrs. regret that they are unable^ to accept 

Mr. and Mrs. kind invitation for the date 

named." When the dinner is to meet any particular 
guest or distinguished person, it is made known by the 
words, " To meet So-and-So," at the head of the invi- 
tation, or after the name of the invited person before 
the date. 

Written invitations are on note sheets of mill-finished 
paper with sido fold, the fancy rough and the highly 
glazed papers of eccentric shapes and fold being out of 
use. The large envelope, nearly square, allows the 
sheet to be doubled once to fit. Cards have the same 
finish, neither dull nor highly polished. The cipher of 
initials entwined is preferred to the monogram, and 
occupies the corner of the note sheet. 

Guests arrive at any time during the half hour before 
dinner, and after leaving wraps in the dressing room, 
are met by the host and hostess at the door of the drawing 
room. Introductions follow if the guest is a stranger. If 
the party is given in honour of any distinguished person, 
or favourite visitor, the other guests are brought up to 
him or her and presented. It is an omen of success for 
her evening if the hostess can make conversation general 
before dinner. To this end, have some novelty at hand, 
either in the shape of a personage whom everybody wants 
to meet, or a hp.w picture, a grotesquo group, a rare plant 
in the drawing-room, tiie latest spice of news to tell, or 



26 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



a pretty girl to bring forward. Whatever the attraction, 
bring it on at once, to prevent that very stupid half hour. 
At the hour, the servant comes in and tells the hostess 
dinner is served. The arranging of the guests has all 
been considered beforehand. If she wishes people to 
think her dinner a pleasant one, the hostess will see that 
the likings of her guests are consulted in pairing off for 
the table. Host and hostess intimate to the gentlemen 
whom they are to escort. " Mr. Lance, will you be kind 
enough to take Miss Dart in to dinner. Mr. Curtis, be 
BO good as to see Uvh. Vane. Jermingham, I know you'd 
prefer Miss Olney, she's sucli a good listener. ]\[r. King, 
if you want to finish telling that story to ^Frs. Capron, 
suppose you give her your arm," and so on. If the guest 
to bo honoured is a lady, the host offers her his arm and 
goes out first, the hostess last. If a gentleman, he escorts 
the hostess, and the host follows the company. Before 
dinner is announced, after the guests have arrived, the 
host has the names of each person written on a card and 
laid on the plates at the place where he or she is to sit. 
This does away with that awkward moment when the 
guests are in the dining room waiting to be told their 
places. The method long used at public dinners is now 
adopted for private ones in the best circles. 

The standard size for dinner tables is four and-a-half 
feet wide, by any length desired. Bound tables for gen- 
tkanen's dinners, where all are wanted in the conversa- 
tion are made seven feet across. Dining chairs should 
have cushioned seats covered with line leather, but no 
arms, or very low ones, that will not impede the ffow of 
ladies' dresses. People who make a study of entertain- 






DINNER ETIQUETTE. 



27 



ing are particular on such points. Each gcr.tleman 
offers his right arm to the lady he takes to dinner and 
seats her on his left, which gives occasion for a pretty 
piece of attention on his part. On reaching their places, 
he draws out her chair for her, and as her hand leaves 
his arm he takes the tips of her fingers and hands her 
to her seat, relinquishing his touch with a slight how or 
glance of acknowledgment. Of course, the honoured 
guest, if a lady, takes the right hand of the host ; if a 
gentleman, he is at the right of the hostess. 

Small can-sliaped pitchers of engraved crystal, holding 
about a quart, are placed with ice water between eacli pair 
of guests. The napkins are folded Hat, with a thick piece 
of bread on each, a cruet-stand and silver salt celler is at 
each corner, and a silver l)utter dish at each end. The 
small individual salt cellars and butter plates, have an 
air of hotel arrangements which it is desiral)lc to avoid at 
home dinners, though entirely admissable and convenient 
at breakfast. If wax lights are used, there should be as 
many candles as guests, according to the old rule. These 
are in branches held by Sevres and Dresden figures, 
above the heads of the guests. Nor are wax lights by any 
means the extravagance they seem. Dinner napkins 
are from three-quarters to seven-eighths of a yard S(iuare, 
and should match the cloth, for which Greek, Moresque, 
and Celtic filigrees and diaper patterns are preferred to 
large arabesques and fruit pieces. French napkins of 
fine fringed damask, with crimson figures of lobster and 
crawfish woven in the centre, are sometimes used at first 
and removed with the fish. Decorations must be choice 
and used with discretion. Flowers should l)e fine but 



■>^m&- 



28 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



few, for cultivated senses find their odor does not mingle 
pleasantly with that of food. All artificial contrivances, 
like eporgnes and show-pieces, tin gutters lined with 
moss and filled with ilowers for the edges of a table, or 
nnrror plates to refiect baskets of blossoms, are l)anished 
by the latest and best taste. The finest fruit grouped in 
the centre of the table, set off with leaves, the garnished 
dishes, th(> lustre of glass and silver, and the colours of 
dehcately painted china, need no improvement as a 
picture. A low silver basket of flowers at the sides, and 
a crystal bouquet holder with a delicate blossom and 
leaf, sparingly introduced, are all that is allowed for 
ornament's sake. Large dinner services of one pattern 
are no longer chosen. The meats and large dishes are 
HI silver or electrotype ware, the sweets come in heavy 
English cut crystal, and each course brings with it plates 
of a different ware. 

The order of wines is sometimes perplexing, and the 
novice should remember that Chablis or Sauterne comes 
with the small oysters before soup, and that Sherry is 
drank after soup. Claret may be taken by those who 
prefer it during a whole dinner with entire propriety. 
Champagne comes with tlie roast, and Burgundy with 
game. The French and Germans reserve champagne 
lor a dessert wine, but we drink it with both roast and 
dessert. After dessert comes coffee, which should bo 
served, however, in the drawing-room. Fingerbowls 
with warm water are placed on the napkin on the dessert 
plate, and removed by the guest to the left, to be used 
by dipping the fingers in lightly and drying them on the 
d'oylay. When the ladies are quite thrJugii with dessert 









DINNER KTK^UETTE. 



29 



the hostess catches the eye of each or raises her gloved 
hand shghly, as a signal, and they leave the tahle, the 
oldest lady going iirst, the youngest last, followed hy the 
hostess — the youngest gentleman, or the one nearest the 
door, taking it on himself to hold the door oi)en. After 
half an hour a guest is at liberty to withdraw, hut a 
dinner party rarely breaks up till half past ten or later, 
if cards and dancing follow. 

As to the individual etiquette of the table, on seating 
himself a guest draws off his gloves, and lays them in his 
lap under the napkin, which should be spread lightly not 
tucked in the dress. The raw oysters are eaten with a 
fork; the soup, only a ladleful to each plate, is sipped 
from the side of the spoon, without noise, or tilting the 
plate. The head should never stoop toward the plate or 
cup, but the shoulders kept straight and the food lifted 
to the mouth, the head l)ent naturally a little. A quiet 
celerity in eating is preferable to the majestic deliberation 
which many people consider genteel. Bread should be 
broken, never cut at table, and should be eaten morsel 
by morsel, not crumbed into soup or gravy. Food 
should not be mixed on the plate. Sweet corn is brought 
on, tied in its husk by a strip of leaf, and should be 
eaten from the cob, breaking the ear in two, and holding 
the piece in the left hand. Asparagus should not be 
touched with the fingers, but the tender part cut up, 
and eaten with the fork. Fish is eaten with the fork, 
assisted by a piece of bread in the left hand. IMacca- 
roni is cut and taken with the fork, unless served with 
the tomatoes, when a teaspoon is allowed, as with green 
peas, Qind stewed tomatoes alone. Cheese is crumbled 



mf 



^■s^wii^fca^ 



30 



THE HOME COOK HOOK. 



with the fork and eaten with it, never touched by the 
finj^'ers. Pastry should be broken by the fork without 
the aid of a knife. Game and chicken are cut up, never 
picked with the lingers, unless in the indulgence of a 
family dinner, when the bono may be held in oni^ hand 
and eaten. Pears are held by tin; stem to be paired, 
and then cut and eaten like apples, beginning to remove 
the skin at the blossom end. Oranges are held on a 
fork while peeled and divided without breaking the skin. 
Cherries in pie, or natural, should have the stones 
passed to the luipkin held at the lips and returned to 
the plate, and grape seeds and skins are disposed of in 
the same way. Salt ii, left on the edge of the plate, not 
on the table. Ladies take but a single glass of any wine 
at most, having their glasses half-filled with champagne 
a second time. It is beginning to be the custom to take 
soft bread as well as ice-cream with cake. Cocoanut 
pudding looks pie, but is helped and eaten with a spoon. 
Small meringues are best eaten with a spoon, though 
the practice is to take them in the fingers. 



i^ 



SOCIAL OBSERVANCES. 



•^ 



The simplest society duty is, that of malduf,' calls. A 
new comer should return each call within two weeks 
after it is made. After this, a call once in six months, 
or a year, serves to keep up ac{|uaiutance. Calls are 
due to a hostess two days after a dinner party, and two 
days after a ball, and a week after a small party, though 
these are amply fulfilled by leaving one's card in the 
case of a gentleman, a personal call being polite from a 
lady who has more time. 

In town, leaving a card with the corner bent signifies 
that it was left by its owner in person, not sent by a 
servant. Bending the edges of a card, means that the 
visit was designed for the young ladies of the house, as 
well as the mistress of it. If there is a visitor with the 
family whom you wished to see, a separate card should 
be left for that person, naming him or her to the ser- 
vant. A card should also l)e left for the host, if the call 
was designed as a family matter, but more than three 
are not left at one house. 

Visits of condolence are paid within a week after the 
funeral, and are as well expressed by leaving a card and 
kind inquiries of the servant. This is the only proper 
thing to do in case of sickness, beside asking if one can 



32 



THE HOWE COOK BOOK. 



be of use. Visits of congratulation are paid in person. 
After the birth of a child, cards and inquiries are left 
at tlui door, when the lady is able to receive her friends, 
she sends her card in n-turn " with thanks for kind in- 
quiries," after which calls are made on her in person. 

Bending the corners of the cards to signify "condo- 
lence," " felicitation," "to take leave," etc., is not used 
so nuich as a penciled word or two, to express one's 
"kind inquiries," if there is trouble in the house, or 
" best wishes," if there is a wedding, or engagement. 

The P. P. C. card when one is going away, is a con- 
venient way of letting friends know of your absence, the 
initials of " pour pore ndre couf/e" being often relinqiushed 
for the plain English "to take leave." On returning, 
cards are sent to all the friends one wishes to see, with 
one's address, and receiving day, when one day of the 
week is set apart for company. 

From three to six are proper calling hours, and a 
visit may be from five minutes to half an hour, never 
longer, unless with a very intimate friend. A gentle- 
man leaves his umbrella in the hall, but carries hat 
and cane with him, keeping the former in his left hand, 
never venturing to lay it on table, or rack, unless in- 
vited to do so by the lady of the house. Her not doing 
so is a sign that it is not convenient for her to prolong 
his call. 

A soft hat is tolerated, but the dress hat is usually 
carried. 

The lady of the house rises to receive any guest, un- 
less it be a very young one, and gives her hand. After 
the visit, she receives a gentleman's bow, and if disposed 



1 



SOCUL OnSERVANCES. 



33 



to be very polite, walks with liiiu to the door of the room. 
She sees a lady visitor to the street door, if tlie parlour 
is on the same floor. If not, going to the head of the 
stairs is sufficient courtesy except to elderly guests. A 
gentleman must escort a lady who makes him a busi- 
ness call to the outer door, and to her carriage, if she 
has one. A caller should take leave as soon as possible 
on the arrival of another visitor, unless asked to stay. 

Where a lady has a large ac(piaintance, it is most con- 
venient for her to set apart a day for receiving their 
calls, of which she admonishes them by her visiting card 
on which the day of the week is pencilled. 

Unless specially invited otherwise, her friends will 
confine their visits to that day of the week. 

To these afternoons the hostess appears in usual 
afternoon dress ; her rooms are attractive with flowers 
and pictures, but no refreshments are served. Her 
guests find her, not sitting at the receipt of customs, 
but busy with some elegant trifle of lace or wool-work, 
writing letters, or touching a sketch, to be laid aside on 
the entrance of visitors. 

The set afternoon reception is announced by this form 
of card, the hostess usually preferring to have some 
young lady with her to add to the attractions of her 
house. 

Mrs. L. Persifeb, 

MisB Arnold, 

At Home, 

Saturday, January thirteenth, 

from three until six. 

(Name and No. of street.) 



34 



THE HOME COOK HOOK. 



h 1 



If tijore be a card receiver in the hall, the visitor's card 
IS left in it, that the hostess may have the pleasure after- 
ward of recalling all the friends who favour her with 
their i)rcsence. 

Coffee, chocolate, cake and ices, are to be found in a 
side room at such receptions. 

The form of card for afternoon tea, which means ladies 
in visiting or carriage dress, a harlequin tea service, each 
cup different, or a set of choice East India China, rooms 
coosy with warm curtains, and signs of womanly occupa- 
tion, everything in short to have the daintiest home-look 
possible, are issued in this fashion : 

Mi's. BuAnr.KY C'owlks, 
Friday, January ISth, 
Tea at 4 o'clock. 
(Name and No. of street.) 

Guests arrive in the live minutes before the hour, or the 
five minutes after. The tea is brought in punctually and 
placed on the hostess' table in the corner, where are the 
urns of black, green and Eussian tea for those who like 
each, a basket of wafers, delicate sandwiches of chicken 
or thin sliced meats, and a basket of fancy cake. If the 
English style is followed, the cups of tea are carried to 
the guests on a tray, and tiny table to rest the cups on 
placed in reach of each group. 

Cards are issued for dinner parties and afternoon recep- 
tiims in distinction from evening parties and weddings, 
invitations to which are engraved on notepaper. Written 
invitations are more complimentary than printed ones, 
but the idea of cards and engraved requests is to save 
the labour of writing notes for a large party, or 



KOCIAL OBSEUVANCEK. 



35 



where one entertains continually. Writtm invita- 
tions for til*' honour and style of the thing, cards 
and cnf^raving for convenience, though this is perhaps 
contrary to the popular notion. Written invitations 
should he as fastidiously correct iis printed ores, on 
niill-linished side-fold note sheets with cipher m the 
corner, and written in the same form as cards, unless to 
a familiar friend, when such precisiim would he absurd. 
Outside envelopes are only used when invitations are 
Kent by mail. And whether so rtuiuested in the note or 
not, answer to accept or decline should he sent as soon 
as possible, no matter how slight the invitation may he, 
even to dine with a gentleman, or go to a picture gal- 
lery. It will not do to present oneself without a word 
to announce one's coming, or to stay away and apolo- 
gize the first time of meeting. Good breeding is hardly 
shown in nicer points than this. 

The person entering a room is the one to salute the 
company hy a good morning, or how do you do, and to 
make his adieus, to which the rest respond. Where a 
stranger enters a small company, each one should be 
separately presented. The guest salutes hostess and 
host before speaking to anyone else, and if the party is 
large, is introduced to two or three convenient persons 
that he may have somebody to talk to, though in a pri- 
vate house guests may accost each other without formal 
presentation. Near the close of a party, the host and 
hostess usually are to be found near the door of the par- 
lour, and guests take leave of them with a bow and 
compliment for a pleasant cvcmng, then pass to iu.e 
dressing rooms after wraps and vanish without further 



-U.,.^ - 



36 



THE HOME COOK iiOOK. 



i 11 




ceremony. In small circles a bow should be given to 
each person about one, and leave taken of any special 
triend whose conversation has been particularly pleasant 
A -entleman does not shake hands with a lady not of 
his knidred, unless she offers to do so. Unmarried 
ladies do not give tlieir hands in salute to anv but gen- 
tlemen relations. Ladies in any case give the hand, 
the gentleman respectfully presses it without shakin-. 
It IS a piece of stupid bad breeding, however, not to take 
the hand of anyone offered in ignorance of the rule, 
ihe best breeding always adapts itself to the customs of 
those about one. 

When a gentleman escorts a lady to a party, he waits 
for her near the door of the ladies' dressing-room till 
she shows herself, gives her his right arm, or gives it to 
the elder lady if he takes two, and goes up to the host- 
ess with her to make salutations, then after a sentence 
or two, turning away to join the company. After a 
dance with any lady it is proper to take half a turn 
round the room in promenade with her, and take her to 
the refreshment room if she wishes, always leaving her 
with her chaperone. An unmarried lady does not ask 
gentlemen to call, but the gentleman asks permission 
for the favour of her, or waits to be invited by her 
father or mother. 









' t^fftt I IF^^fa^'" 



given to 
ly special 
pleasant, 
fly not of 
nniarried 

but gen- 
lie liaml, 

shaking. 
)t to take 
the rule, 
istoms of 

he waits 
.'oom till 
ives it to 
the host- 
sentence 

After a 
f a turn 
iG her to 
ving her 

not ask 
^■mission 

by her 



THE 

LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERS. 



It often happens that a good deal of knowledge which 
we are not conscious of possessing — but which finds its 
way somehow into the brains of big and little people as 
wiiU— comes very readily to hand when it is needed. It 
so happened with Annie and Jennie, whose first practi- 
cal lessons in housekeeping began after breakfast, one 
morning when Bridget was absent, at her sister's funeral, 
and in consequence of an accident by which mamma 
sprained her ankle. 

And the doctor had said, with a very wise shake of 
his head, and any amount of wisdom in his eye, that 
*' Little Mother " .must not step on that foot for three 
days, she grew still whiter with dismay, for Bridget 
would not be back until (piite late in the day, and how 
was all the house work to be done and nobody to do it ? 

It was thus that Annie's and Jennie's first practical 
experiences in housekeeping began, and as our object in 
teUing you how and what they did is to give you some 
ideas how you should manage in similar circumstances. 
I must not pass over their mother's first caution : Before 
commenciug your work iwcpare yourselves for it. This 
they did by putting long sleeved aprons over their 






if 



38 



THE IIO^IE COOK BOOK. 



^ 



dresses, rolling back their sleeves when it was evident 
the right place to begin with was 

THE DINING ROOM. 

The first thing here to do, was the clearing of the 
table. In this, all the clean silver, china, and dishes 
that had not been used, were first put away in the silver 
drawer, the china closet and on the side-board. Next, 
the dishes to be cleaned were collected together ; the 
silver and tlie knives were first put into a pitcher of hot 
^er, with the bowls and blades downwards. Next, the 
water was emptied from the glasses, and the coffee from 
the cups into a basin, and while Annie took these into 
the kitchen and placed them there on the table, Jennie 
gathered the plates in a pile, the cups and the saucers, 
each by themselves, in which way they were (juickly and 
easily carried to the kitchen. 

They were careful not to take too many at once, as 
they would be liable to break them. Then the table- 
cloth was folded and laid in the side-board ; the napkins 
were put in the napkin l)asket ; the dining room fioor 
was nicely swept and thefm-niture dusted ; the .coal stove 
was attended to, that the fire was not too lively and not 
too low ; and then, after kissing and petting mamma a 
few minutes, the Httle housekeepers set about 

THE WASHING OF THE DISHES. 

This, of course, with "Little Mother" at the head of 
affairs, was no disagreeable work, you may be sure. The 
large tin dish-pan, as bright as silver, was placed in the 



I 



THE LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERS. 



39 



1 evident 



g of the 
d dishes 
lie silver 
[. Next, 
lier ; the 
er of hot 
^ext, the 
ffoe from 
lese into 
, Jennie 
saucers, 
ckly and 

once, as 
e table- 
napkins 
)m floor 
)al stove 
and not 
innna a 



head of 
e. The 
'd in the 



sink ; the hot and cold water faucets turned on until the 
temperature of the water was hot enough for cleansing 
the dishes, and not too hot for the hands; then Miesuds 
was made by stirring about in the water the soa[ -shaker 
(a little tin box with soap in it, and perforated with holes 
having a long handle like a dipper). Then the glasses 
were first washed and quickly wiped on clean dry towels ; 
then the silver ; then the pretty china cups, saucers, 
plates and other dishes, which were then rinsed by pour- 
nig clear hot water over them in another pan, from which 
they were wiped with the coarser towels. This finisl^ed, 
Jennie removed the dishes from the kitchen table, putting 
the silver, glass and china away, while Annie washed 
the sauce-pans and the tins, putting them in their places 
in the kitchen ; then brushed the range and swept the 
kitchen floor; after which they washed their hands well 
and dried them on the roller-towel ; and then our little 
housekeepers set themselves about preparations for 

THE CHAMBEPt WORK. 

First, the two little girls wc-t into mamma's room, 
and put on over their bright glossy curls two little 
Martha Washington dusting-caps of pink and blue cam- 
bric, trimmed around the edges with scolloped ruffles, 
and ornamented with pretty litth^ fanciful bows of pink 
and blue cambric, with scalloped edges. Then Annie 
took the |,ails and cloths, and Jennie the brushes, and 
])rooms, and went up stairs. 

The first rule of chamber work is to open the windows 
and turn down the bed clothes to air them well ; beating 
up the pillows and the mattress. As Annie and Jennie 



40 



THE HOME COOK BOOTC. 



Ml 



,^ 



always did this the first thing after dressing in the morn- 
ing, and heforc going down to hreakfast, the first thing 
now to do was to maki; up the hed. While Annie went 
to the further side, Jennie remained on the other, and 
thus, each sheet and hlankett was brought up and laid 
over straight and smooth, with not a wrinkle in sheet 
or blanket, or a single article out of line. When all was 
done, the spread and blankets were turned neatly back, 
with the pretty ruffled sheet lying back on the nice white 
counterpane ; the clothes were all neatly tucked and 
folded at the sides and the corners, and the pillows put 
up against the headboard. Then, while Annie washed 
the bed-room service, first emptying the waste water, and 
then washing out the cleanest dishes in warm suds, 
Jennie brushed the room, dusted the furniture and put 
the hair and clothes-brushes in order, and arranged the 
bureau and toilet table. They followed the same order 
in their brother John's room, which was all of the cham- 
ber work to be done that day, and then went down stairs. 
By this time the little housekeepers began to feel tired, 
and so they rested a while in their two little easy chairs 
hi mamma's room, talking to mamma and each other 
until it came the time for getting ready for the 

LUNCHEON. 

As John took his dinner with him to school, and papa 
ate his mncheon down town, and would not be home 
until the five 'o'clock dinner, there was only mamma and 
the two little girls to partake of this repast together ; and 
as mamma's luncheons were such cosy, tasteful though 
shnple meals, we may gain some suggestions from the way 



V 



THE LITTLE HOU!-EKEEPERS. 



41 



our little housekeepers prepared them. The first thing 
to do in getting any meal, is to decide upon the various 
dishes to be served. A look at the supply of prepared 
food was quite disheartening to the ambitious desires 
of the little housekeepers, as there was bread and cake 
and cold meat in plenty, and it seemed as though there 
would be no opportunity fov practicing their skill in 
cooking. But mamma, who saw the troubled look on 
the httle faces, made out the following 



BILL OF FARE: 

Tea. 
White Bread. Brown Bread. Crackers. 

Ham. 

Cheese Sandwiches. 

Jumbles. Preserved Strawberries. 

Whipped Cream. 






Now, it must be remembered, that in this arrange- 
ment, the bread was at hand ready to slice ; the ham 
was boiled, ready to cut ; and the strawberries ready in 
the little glass can to be opened. There remained, 
therefore, jumbles and tea to make, and the cheese 
sandwiches to prepare. Following mamma's advice, 
they first undertook the jumbles, of which they were to 
make but half the recipe. They selected for this " Ex- 
cellent Jumbles," in the Home Cook Book, and while 
Jennie held the book and read the ingredients, Annie 
collected them together. Thus : one-half a cup of but- 
tes, one cup of sugar, and one-half cup of cream, and 
one-half teaspoon of soda. When Jennie came to the 
one egg of the recipe, they had some trouble how they 
should manage to make it half an egg ; but after con- 
sultation with mamma, they concluded to vai-y from the 



42 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



given rule, and put the whole egg in. Then Jennie read 
on: A little nutmeg; flour enough to stiffen it, so as 
to bake m rings ; bake quickly." 

The flour was sifted ; the butter and sugar first 
creamed together by Annie, while Jennie beat the yolk 
of the egg, and added it to the creamed sugar and but- 
ter; then they put in the nutmeg, the cream and the 
soda ; then the beaten white of the egg, and the sifted 
flour ; then they put the jumbles into the huttered rinc^s 
and haked them. As the oven was quick and hot, I am 
happy to say these jumbles were a success. In takin- 
them out of the tins when done, they did not pile them on 
one another, but placed them carefully about on a lar-e 
plate to cool. Then the little housekeepers made the 
tea, accordnig to the directions in the Cook Book and 
also the cheese sandwiches, which were a complete'suc- 
sess. The cutting of the ])read was a difficult task, since 
to be nice the slices should be even and thin, but it was 
managed nevertheless with patience and care. When 
all was ready, the cream nicely whipped, the strawber- 
ries put in the preserve dish, the little round table in 
mamma's room drawn out, and the luncheon arranged 
they were just ready to sit down to enjoy the fruits of 
their labour, what should they hear but Bridget's voice 
at the door. So it came to pass, that with the luncheon 
ended for this time the practical experiments of our little 
housekeepers. But it all goes to prove that, if we live 
with our eyes open, we shall all of us find that, with 
such help as our Home Cook Book, we shall be ready 
for those emergencies which come to l^ig as well as the 



little housekeepers, when Bridget is not at hand 



w*if^=«^,'»n ^'■-- 



snnie read 
I it, so as 

igar first 
the 3'olk 
and but- 
and the 
;he sifted 
!red rings 
iot, 1 am 
n taking 
' them on 
n a large 
lado the 
ook, and 
ete suc- 
sk, since 
it it was 
When 
;rawber- 
table in 
■ranged, 
ruits of 
's voice 
:ncheon 
ur little 
we live 
i, with 
i ready 
as the 



OUR SUSAN'S OPINION OF A KITCHEN. 



'•My opinion of a kitchen?" said Susan, in a tone, with 
a glance, and a wave of her fork that spoke unwritten 
volumes, as she translated the perfection of fried cakes 
from the frying kettle to a tin colander to drain ; " my 
opinion of a kitchen ? Well, that woul*"" vary somewhat 
with the mansion that contained it. In any case, how- 
ever, it would be the pleasantest room in the house, if I 
had the ordering of thinirs." 

The queen of our kitchen said this with a half smile 
and a half apology, as she continued : " It makes a good 
deal of difference, you know, to one who is to spend the 
best part of her time there. I often think that many 
people with whom money is no object, have very limited 
ideas of their responsibilities when it comes to the ser- 
vant's quarter in the houses they build, with all they may 
have of modern improvements and conveniences. 

" I have no conceit of those fine houses," said she, 
with considerable asperity of manner, "with not a room 
in it but where a regiment might meander comfortably 
about among the furniture but the kitchen, which is only 
large enough for the range, the sink, the ironing table, 

and the cook. Neither for my part, conld T ever 

see what those people are thinking about who do not 
keep servants, and where the mistress expects to do her 



■■M 



!» 



44 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



» > 



f I 



: 



own work, who allows, of all rooms in the hoiL^o, her 
kitchen to be built a dark little ])ox of a place, pervaded 
with the sole idea of irork. Of work, too, without one 
gleK 1 of cheerfulness about it, and from which everyone 
who enters escapes with a glad feeling of relief. For 
my part," she continued, "I don't see why making fried 
cakes, and l)aking biscuit, and washing dishes, might not 

be made as l>right and attractive as, well, as any 

thing else one has to do in the way of house work. 

"My opinion of a kitchen, ' as is a kitchen,' is one with 
room enough about for the ma ay little things and com- 
forts that give it a home-like look; a 'living room,' as we 
used to call our kitchen in the old home. For instance 
this comes the nearest my idea of it ; always excepting 
that,'' she said, with a gratified glance around at the 
pretty clock on its pretty bracket, and the newspaper 
rack, (for Susan enjoyed the papers,) at the various nick- 
nacks, and the landscapes, and home views, which Susan 
prized far above the costly conventional fruit and game 
pieces on the dining room walls. And then Susitu's 
glance wandered, with a pleased softened look to the 
sunny window, with its geranium pots and hanging 
basket, near which the most cheerful of canaries in his 
cage made all the air melodious with song. Here, also, 
stood an easy chair inviting rest for those moments of 
waiting upon work which so often occur, and near it a 
stand with drawers for all sorts of little treasures which 
contained all of fancy work in which Susan ever indulged, 
" That easy chair, and that window, are great comforts 
to me," she resumed. "' Now, if there was but one 
window to my kitchen, and the sink before that, as 1 see 



mutM 



ou" Susan's opinion of a kitchen. 



45 



in so many kitchens, if 1 had to take refuge in a stiff- 
backed chair in a dark corner or the middle of the room 
Nvhere I coukl reach out and touch the walls all around 
while I was waiting for the biscuit to rise, or the cake 
was baking, as I sat there glaring at some dark melan- 
choly paper, instead of this brig! , cheerful tint of gray, 
with its hints of rose and violet, and then with the 
wood-work about, of an ugly, dingy blue, or mud col- 
oured brown, instead of this bright-grained wood, with 
gleams of sunshine in it on theuarkest days, and that is 
so easy to keep clean and is as I'retty as a picture. 1 
think if thi>i was that kind of a kitchen, I would run 
away with the milkman some bright morning— I actu- 
ally think 1 would." This is a standing joke of our 
Susan's, but one nevertheless that brings fear and con- 
sternation in our household whenever ii is revived. " 1 
suppose I was spoiled for that sort of thing in my early 
days," said she, meditatively, with a look in her eyes 
that went out for the moment, " over the hills and far 
away," to the kitchen, where we first found our Susan. 
It was a wide, long room — so wide and long that the 
dresser and clock and tables and large old-fashioned 
furniture that stood here and there, never intruded 
themselves, but in large, comely, decorous, but uncom- 
promising dignity, formed each a part of the harmoni- 
ous whole. There was an indescribable charm about 
it, always orderly, always bright and the centre of a 
home-life where its duties went on in that easy cheerful 
way, a pleasure both to sight and sense. About its 
many windows, all the summer time, the roses clam- 
bered in sweet confusion, and through which the scent 



t 



4() 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



m^ 



of the fragrant sweet-briar came Hoating in, with the 
song of the woodland birds and the pleasant farm 
sounds, and a vision of the far away hills, in their ever 
varying beauty of light and shadow ; while within, in 
conscious enjoyment of it all, was Susan, stepping mer- 
rily about, making custard pies, or folding the fragrant 
linen, fresh from the line, for the morrow's ironing. 
But the prettiest picture of that old kitchen was of a 
winter evening, when the winds blew furiously without, 
of the grand old Ih'e-place, with its heaping wood fire, 
over which on tlie crane the kettle hung, humming and 
singing, and sending up the chimney white clouds of 
steam, while before it stood the tin baker, which held 
the rich juicy roast, or the light snowy biscuit, the like 
of which never came out of any range that ever was, or 
will be invented ; while the fire lighted up the fine old 
room with a rich warm glow, as Susan set the table w'itli 
its snowy linen and polished ware, and golden butter, 
and luscious honey in the comb, and all those charming 
fancies she knew so well how to prepare. And to com- 
plete the picture, the comfortable easy chairs by the 
fire where the grandmother sat in placid enjoyment with 
her knitting, and not very far away, the father, tired 
with the work of the day, giving himself to the rest and 
comforts of the evening hour. This is the picture that 
rose 80 vividly before me, but which had faded all too 
suddenly from our Susan's past. 

Ah, well! said she, after a time coming out of her 
reverie with a little sigh and back again, to her opinion 
of a kitchen. 

"It is not all of life to live" — making a hap-hazard 



I 



'I 



OUR srSAN's OPINION OF A KITCHEN. 

selection from her small stock of poetical fancies, but 
checking herself before reaching the concluding lines of 

this stanza. 

"My opinion," she said, with a sudden change of tone 
and manner as she sniffed the air— is— that until some 
contrivance is invented to cf.rry out all the steam, smoke, 
and smell of frying, that with all my care, and in spite 
of windows, and doors, and ventilators, will hang about 
my kitchen, the millenium won't come ; and if it does, / 
shan't be in it." 

As she said this, we looked around, and there stood 
tl.e Pater. And we knew by the look in his eyes that he 
had heard these words of Susan's. And thus it will 
happen, that the Pater who is a born inventor, l)ut who 
in the hurry and worry of business hfc has limited 
opportunities for the indulgence of this natural bent of 
his genius, will seize upon this idea with the pretext of a 
duty, and with which he will retire to the depths of his 
inner consciousness, there to evolve some stange contriv- 
ance hereafter to assume form and shape for the perfect- 
ing of "Our Susan's" kitchen. 




If 



UTENSILS 

NECESSARY IN THE KITCHEN OF A SMALL FAMILY. 



WOODExN WARE. 



Kitclien Table; Wash Bench; Wash Tubs, (three 
sizes) ; Wash Board : Skirt J^oard ; Bosom Board ; Bread 
Board ; Towel Roll ; Pot.itoe Masher ; Wooden Spoons ; 
Clothes Stick ; Flour Barrel Cover ; Flour Sieve ; Chop- 
ping Bowl ; Soap Bowl ; Pails ; Lemon Squeezer ; Clothes 
Wringer ; Clothes Bars ; Clothes Pins ; Clothes Baskets ; 
Mop ; Wood Boxes, (nests). 

TIN WAKE. 

One Boiler for Clothes ; one Boiler for Ham ; one 
Bread Pan ; two Dish Pans ; one Preserving Pan ; four 
Milk Pans ; two Quart Basins ; two Pint Basins ; two 
quart covered Tin Pails; one four-quart covered Tin Pail; 
Sauce Pans with covers, two sizes ; two Tin Cups v/ith 
handles; four Jelly Moulds, (half-pint) ; two Pint Moulds 
for rice, blanc-mange, etc. ; one Skimmer ; two Dippers, 
different sizes ; two Funnels, (one for jug and one for 
cruets) ; one ({uart measure, abo, pint, half-pint and gill 
measures, (they should be broad and low as they are more 
easily kept clean) ; three Scoops ; Bread Pans ; two round 




UTENSILS. 



49 



Jelly Cake Pans, and two long Pie Pans ; One Coffee 
I'ot'; one Tea Steeper ; one Colander ; one Steamer ; one 
Horse lladish Grater ; one Nutmeg Grater ; one small 
Salt Sieve; one Hair Sieve for straining jelly; one 
Dover's Egg Beater; one Cake Turner; one Cake Cutter; 
one Apple Corer; one Potato Cutter; one dozen Muffin 
EingH ; one Soap Shaker ; lee Filter ; Flour Dredge ; 
Tea Canister; CotiVe Canister; Cake, Bread, Cracker, 
and Cheese Boxes ; Crumb Tray ; Dust Pans. 

IRON WARE. 

Range ; one Pot with steamer to fit; one Soup Kettle ; 
Preserving Kettle (porcelain) ; Tea Kettle ; large and 
small Frying Pans; Dripping Pans; Gem Pans ; Iron 
Spoons of different sizes ; one Gridiron ; one Griddle ; 
one Waffle Iron ; Toasting Rack ; Meat Fork ; Jagging 
Iron ; Can Opener ; Coffee Mill ; Flat Irons ; Hammer ; 
Tack Hammer ; Screw Driver ; Ice Pick. 

STONE WARE. 

Crocks of various sizes ; Bowls holding six quarts, 
four quarts, two quarts, and pint bowls ; six Earthen 
Baking Dishes, different sizes. 

BRUSHES. 

Table Brush : two Dust Brushes ; two Scrub Brushes; 
one Blacking Brush for stove; Shoe Brush; Hearth 
Brush : Brooms. 



SOUPS 



i I 



41 



" No useless dish our table crowds ; 

Hiiniionionsly ranged a)id consuuautly just, 

As in a concert instruments resound, 

Our ordered dislies in their courses chime." 

The basis of all good soups, is the broth of meat. 
This may be made b;, boiling the cracked joints of beef, 
veal or mutton, and is best when cooked the day before 
it is to be eaten. After putting the meat into the pot, 
cover it well with cold water and let it come to a boil, 
when it should l)e well skimmed. Set the pot where it 
will simmer slowly until it is thoroughly done, keeping 
the pot closely covered the while. The next day, when 
the soup is cold, remove the fat, which will harden on 
the top of the soup. After this, add the vegetables and 
the herbs you use for seasoning, cooking all well together. 
Before sending to the table, the soup should be strained. 
A good stock for soups may be made from shreds and 
bits of uncooked meat and bones, poultry and the re- 
mains of game. When these are all put together and 
stewed down in the pot, the French term it consomme, 
and use it chiefly in the preparation of brown soups. 

Soups may be varied in many ways, chiefly in the kinds 
of vegetables and difi'erent seasonings used, — as in herbs, 



I 



•-«ji^.,,..--^6^^H^f*r*^K#iai^.;^ 1 ■ 



valuable: recipes. 



61 



burned caramel, eggs or slices of bread fried to a crisp 
in butter, wliicli impart a savoury relisb. 

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP. 

Mrs. Frisbie. 

Rub t)ie yolks of tbree or four hard boiled eggs to a 
smooth paste, with a little melted butter, pepper and 
salt, to these add two raw ones, beat in light, add enough 
Hour to hold the paste together, make into balls, with 
floured hands, and set in a cool place until just before 
your soup comes off, wdicn you put them in carefully and 
boil one minute. 

ANOTHER SOUP FOR SUET. 

Mrs. G. B. ^Y.vllie, 

One tea oup pearl barley in about one pint cold water, 
bring to the boil till it swells, l)oil in a tin pail, in hot 
water, four quarts milk, put in your barley and keep 
simmering for three or four hours, add, then senintj, one 
teaspoonful of salt. 

POTATO SOUP. 

Roil a shank of l)eef U\o days before you want your 
soup, strain into a crock and let stand till you need it, 
the fat will rise to the top, this you must take off before 
l)eginning to make your soup, now take your soup pot, 
and in about two tablespoonfuls of this same fat, fry 
brown four large onions sliced, put in half your stock, 
have ready a put of nicely mashed potatoes, stir the pot- 
atoesinto the soup till about the thickness of thick cream, 






ir'i 



52 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



^ '; 



II 



I 



and season with pepper and salt. The remaining stock 

is valuable for graveys, &c., or. Scotch broth instead of 
mutton. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Mrs. G. B. Wyllie. 

Take one-half teacup barley, four quarts cold water 
bring this to the boil and skim now put in a neck of 
mutton and boil again for half an hour, skim well the 
sides of the pot also ; have ready two carrots, one large 
onion, a small head of cabbage, one bunch parsley, one 
sprig of celery top : chop all these fine, add your chop- 
ped vegetables, pepper and salt to taste. This soup 
takes two hours to cook. 

SUET SOUP. 

MADE WITHOUT MEAT. 

In your souj) pot put about a quarter of a pound of 
butter, set on the stove, slice into it four large onions ; 
fry them a nice brown, stirring all the time. Now put 
in four quarts of cold water, one large coffee cupful of 
split peas previously washed ; boil four hours. Before 
serving stir smartly with your potato-masher, strain 
through a colander into your tureen. Many like tomato 
catsup in this, but it is better to serve that separate. 

TO KEEP STOCK FOR SOUP. 

MrH. G. B. Wyllie. 

Cover your crock with a cloth, and tie down, as a lid 
causes it to ferment. 



\% 



.1 

"Jf 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 63 

POTATOE SOUP FOR LENT. 

Mr. G. B. Wyllie. 

Slice and fry to a nice brown four large onions in quarter 
pound of butter in your soup pot, add four quarts of 
skim milk, bave pealed and boiled a good three pints of 
potatoes, mash them fine and reduce smooth with the 
milk from your soup pot; repeat this till all the potatoes 
are in your soup pot ; just bring to a boil and add pepper 
and salt to taste. 

OX TAIL SOUP. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Take two ox tails and two whole onions, two carrots 
a small turnip, two tablespoonfuls of flour, and a little 
white pepper, add a gallon 'of water, let all boil for two 
hours; then take out the tails and cut the meat into 
small pieces, return the bones to the pot, for a short 
time, boil for another hour, then 'strain the soup, and 
rinse two spoonfuUs of arrowroot to add to it with the 
meat cut from the bones, and let all boil for a quarter of 
an hour. 

BEEF SOl ':\ 

Mrs. Wm. II. Low. 

Cut all the lean of the shank, and with a little beef suet 
in the bottom of the kettle, fry it to a nice brown ; put in 
the bones and cover with water ; cover the kettle closely ; 
let it cook slowly until the meat drops from the bones ; 
strain through a colander and leave it in the dish during 
the night, which is the only way to get ofif all the fat. 



. : 



54 



THE HOME COOK ROOK. 



The day it is wanted for the tahle, fry as hrown as possi- 
ble a carrot, an onion and a very small turnip sliced thin. 
Just before taking up, put in half a teaspoonful of sugar, 
a blade of mace, six cloves, a dozen kernels of allspice, a 
small tablespoonfiil of celery seed. With the vegetables 
this must cook slowly in the soup an hour ; then strain 
again for the table. If you use vermicelli or pearl barley, 
soak in water. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Shred two onions and fry brown in a half spoon of but- 
ter; add a little mace, salt and pepper; then a spoonful 
or so of stock ; rub a tal)lespo()nful of Hour smooth with 
a little butter and let fry with the onions; strain through a 
colander, then add more stock if desired; cut turnip, car- 
rot and celery in lillets ; add a few green peas ; boil ten- 
der in a little water and add both water and vegetables to 
the soup. If wished, the flour can be left out, and it will 
make a clear light-coloured soup. In that case the onions 
should be cut in hllets and boiled with the vegetables. 



MUTTON SOUP. 

Mis. Whitehead. 

Boil a leg of mutton three hours ; season to your taste 
witli salt and pepper, and add one teaspoon of summer 
savory ; nuike a batter of one egg, two tablespoons of 
milk, two tables])oons of flour, all well beaten together: 
drop this batter into the soup with a spoon, and l)oil for 
three minutes. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



55 






VEAL SOUP. 

To about three pounds of a joint of veal, which must 
be well broken up, put four quarts of water and set it 
over to l)oil. Prepare one-fourth pound of macaroni by 
boiling it by itself, with sufficient water to cover it ; add 
a little butter to the macaroni when it is tender ; strain 
the soup and season to taste with salt and pepper ; then 
add the macaroni in the water in which it is boiled. 
The addition of a pint of rich milk or cream and celery 
Havour is relished l)y many. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Anonyiiious. 

Take the turkey bones and cook for one hour in water 
enough to cover them ; then stir in a little dressing and 
a beaten egg. Take from the fire, and when the water 
has ceased boiling add a little butter with pepper and 
salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Take one quart of water, one teacup of butter ; one 
pint of milk, two teaspoons of salt, four crackers rolled 
tine, and one teaspoon of pepper ; bring to full boiling 
heat as soon as possible, then add one quart of oysters : 
let the whole come to boiling heat quickly and remove 
from the fire. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. T. V. Wadskier. 

Pour one quart of boiling water into a skillet; then 
one quart of good rich milk ; stir in one teacup of rolled 



56 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



■U 



'^ii 



1. 



1 



lit: 



cracker crumbs ; season with pepper and salt to taste. 
When all come to a boil, add one quart of good fresh 
oysters ; stir well, so as to keep from scorching ; then 
add a piece of good sweet butter about the size of an 
egg ; let it boil up once, then remove from the fire im- 
mediately ; dish up and send to table. 

CLAM SOUP. 

Mrs. A. A. Carpenter. 

Cut salt pork in very small squares and fry light 
brown ; add one large or two small onions cut very fnie, 
and cook about ten minutes ; add two quarts of water 
and one quart of raw potatoes sliced ; let it boil ; then 
add one quart of clams. Mix one tablespoonful of tiour 
with water, put it with one pint of milk and pour into 
the soup and let it boil about five minutes. Butter, 
pepper, salt, Worcestershire sauce to taste. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

Mrs. Robert Harris. 

One large lobster or two small ones ; pick all the meat 
from the shell and chop fine ; scald one quart of milk 
and one pint of water ; then add the lobster, one pound 
of butter, a tablespoonful of Hour, and salt and red pep- 
per to taste. Boil ten minutes and serve hot. 

PLAIN CALF'S HEAD SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Take a calf's head well cleaned, a knuckle of veal, and 
r>nt them both into a large kettle ; put one onion and 



r^lS0S^^^i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



67 



a large tablespoon of sweet herbs, into a cloth and into 
the kettle, with the meat over which you have poured 
about four quarts of water. If you wish the soup for a 
one o'clock dinner, put the meat over to boil as early as 
eight o'clock in the morning ; let it boil steadily and 
slowly and season well with salt and pepper. About 
one hour before serving, take off the soup and pour it 
through a colander, pick out all the meat carefully, chop 
very fhie and return to the soup, putting it again over 
the lire. Boil four eggs very hard, chop them tine, and 
slice one lemon very thin, adding at the very last. 



VERMICELLI SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

A knuckle of lamb, a small piece of veal, and water to 
cover well ; when well cooked, season with salt, pepper, 
herbs to your taste, and a small onion, to v iiich you 
may add Halford or Worcestershire sauce, about a table- 
spoouful. Have ready one-quarter of a pound of vermi- 
celli, which has been boiled tender ; strain your soup 
from the meat, add the vermicelli, lei it boil well and 
serve. 



GUMBO SOUP.- 

Anonymous. 

Put on half a peck of tomatoes in a porcelain kettle 
and let them stew ; have half a peck of ochra cut in fine 
shreds ; put them with thyme, parsley and an onion cut 
line, into the tomatoes and let them cook until quite 
tender. Fricassee one chicken in ham gravy ; then take 
5 



h I 



58 



TIIK HOME COOK IJOOK. 



the yolk of four eggs, a little vinegar, the juice of one 
lemon, and season to taste, beating the eggs into the 
vinegar; pour this over the chicken, and put all then 
into the tomatoes, letting the kettle he nearl.y tilled with 
water. Boil all together four or five hours. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Mrs. C. li. Wheeler. 

One soup-bone, one (juart of turtle beans, one large 
spoonful of powdered cloves, salt and pepper. Soak the 
beans over night, put them on with the soup-bone in 
nearly six quarts of water and cook five or six hours. 
When half done, add the cloves, salt and pepper ; when 
done, strain through a colander, pressing the pulp of the 
beans through to make the soup the desn-ed thickness, 
and serve with a few shces of hard-boiled egg and lemon 
sliced very thin. The turtle beans are black and can 
only be ol)tained from large grocers. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Mrs. Wliitehead. 

Boil chicken or beef four hours ; then strain ; add to 
the soup one can of tomatoes and boil one hour. This 
will make four quarts of soup. 

TOMATO SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

C. 0. Van Cline. 

One (|uart of tomatoes, one quart of water, one quart 
of milk. Butter, salt and pepper to taste. Cook the 
tomatoes thoroughly in the water, have the milk scald- 



m 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



59 



ins, (over water to prevent scorching.) When the toma- 
toes are done add a large teaspoonful of salaratus, which 
will cause a violent effervescence. It is best to set the 
vessel in a pan before adding it to prevent M&ste. 
When the commotion has ceased add the milk and 
seasoning. When it is possible it is best to use more 
milk than water, and cream instead of butter. The soup 
is eaten with crackers and is by some preierred to oyster 
syrup. This recipe is very valuable for those who keep 
abstinence days. 



ASPARAGUS SOUP. 



Mrs. D. 



Three or four pounds of veal cut fine, a little salt 
pork, two or three bunches of aparagus and three quarts 
of water. Boil one-half of the asparagus with the meat, 
leaving the rest in water until about twenty minutes 
before serving ; then add the rest of the asparagus and 
boil just before serving ; add one pint of milk ; thicken 
with a little flour and season. The soup should boil 
about three hours before adding the last half of the 
asparagus. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

Four pounds of lean beef cut in small pieces, one-half 
peck of green peas, one gallon of water ; boil the empty 
pods of the peas in the water one hour ; strain them out ; 
add the beef and boil slowly one and a half hours. Half 
an hour before serving strain out the meat and add the 



60 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



peas; twenty minutes later add oue-half cup of rice 
flour ; salt and p- pper to taste ; and if you choose, one 
teaspoon of sugar. After adding the rice, stir frecjucntly 
to prevent burning. 

CORN SOUP. 

Mrs. W. P. Nixon. 

One small beef bone, two ipiarts of water ; four toma- 
toes, eight ears of corn ; let the meat boil a short time 
in the water ; cut the corn from the cob and put in the 
cobs with the cut corn and tomatoes; let it boil about 
half an hour ; remove the cobs ; just before serving add 
milk, which allow to boil for a few moments only ; 
season with salt and pepper. 

CORN SOUP. 

Anonymous. 

One quart of corn cut from the cob in three pints of 
water : when the grain is quite tender, mix with them 
two ounces of sweet butter rolled in a tablespoon of 
flour ; let it boil fifteen minutes longer; just before tak- 
ing up the soup, beat up an egg and stir in with pepper 
and salt. 

TURTLE BEAN SOUP. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Take a quart of black beans, wash them and put them 
in a pot with three quarts of water ; boil until thoroughly 
soft ; rub the pulp through a colander and return it to 
the pot ; add some thyme in a clean cloth, and let it boil 



I 



^^^H 






BH^HH 






i 




VALUABLE 


RF.niPES. 




Gl 


[ 
■ 


a few ramakm for flavour ; slice suoQt m,rd boiled eggs 
and dvof^mt kt^mm wtup ; add a little butter, pepper 
and salt. 

UP A M QOTTT) 



Mrs. Whitehead. 

One pint l)eans, four quarts water, small piece fat 
beef ; boil three hours and strain. If too thin add one 
tablespoon flour. 

POTATO SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Boil five or six potatoes with a small piece of salt 
pork and a little celery ; pass through a colander and 
add milk or cream (if milk, a little butter,) to make the 
consistency of thick cream ; chop a little parsley fine 
and throw in ; let boil five minutes ; cut some dry "bread 
in small dice, fry brown in hot lard ; drain them and 
place in the bottom of soup tureen, and pour the soup 
over ; chop two onions and boil with the sou]i, if liked. 

FORCE MEAT BALLS. 

Mrs. James S. Oibbs. 

.Mix with one pound of chopped veal or other meat, 
one egg, a little butter or raw pork ch(jpped fine, one 
cup or less of bread crumbs ; the whole well moistened 
witli warm water, or what is l)ettcr, the water from 
stewed meat ; season with salt and pepper ; make in 
small balls and fry them brown. 



Ws^^^ 



m ! 



62 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

EGG J3ALLS FOR SOUP. 

M. A. T. 

Boil four eggs ; put into cold water ; mash yolks with 
yolk of one raw egg, and one teaspoon of tlour ; pepper, 
salt and parsley ; make into balls and boil two minutes. 

NOODLES FOR SOUP. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Rub into two eggs as much sifted flour as they will 
absorb; then roll out un^U thin as a wafer : dust over 
a little tlour, and then roll over and over into a roll ; 
cut off thin slices from the edge of the roU and shake 
out into long strips ; put them into the soup lightly Lud 
boil for ten minutes ; salt should be added while mix- 
ing with the flour — ^ibout a saltspaonful. 

CABAMEL, OR BURNED SUGAR. 

Put two ounces of brown or white sugar in an old tin 
cup over a brisk tire, stir this until it is quite dark and 
gives forth a burned smell, then add half a cup of cold 
water ; let it boil gently a few minutes, stirring well and 
all the while. Take oft", and when cold bottle for use. 
This keeps well, and may be used for flavoring gravies 
and soups. 

CROUTONS. 

These are simply pieces of l)read fried brown and 
crisp to be used in soups. 



M 






'.MTaMBlMwlln» riiiliMir 



F 1 3 H, 



" The silvery fiKh, 
Grazing at large in ineaJows subuuirine, 
Fresh from the wave now cheers 
Our festive board." 

— Anon 

Fish are good, when the gills are red, eyes are full, and 
the body of tlu; lish is firm and stiff. After washing them 
well, they should be allowed to remain for a short time in 
salt water sufficient to cover them ; before cooking, wipe 
them dry, dredge lightly with flour, nnd season vitii S'.lt 
and pepper. Salmon trout and other snuili f3^h ait 
usually fried or broiled ; all large fish should hi- nut in a 
cloth, tied closely with twine, and placed in cold atdr, 
when they may be put over the fire to boil. When fish 
are baked, prepare the fish the same as for boiling, and 
put in the oven on a wire gridiron, over a dripping pan. 

SUGGESTIONS AS TO FISH, POULTRY, &c. 

Miss Riiey. 

Cod-Fish — requires great care in cleaning, particularly 
in cleansing the back-bone from blood which spoils its 
appearance, and sometimes renders it too unsightly for 
the table. Fishes that are to le dressed in their scales, 



ill 



S?il 



64 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



if i<! 
I I 



i ' 



should be dipped in water, and rubbed with a coarse 
towel to remove the shine. All salt fish should be 
properly soaked in water, previous to cooking. It is 
asserted that a small proportion of sugar will keep fish 
perfectly fresh for several days ; it also cures salmon and 
white fish with a little salt added to please the taste. 
Fresh water fish has often a muddy smell and taste ; to 
take this ofi", soak it in strong salt and water after it is 
nicely cleansed, then dry and dress it. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

Lay the fish open ; put it in a dripping pan, with the 
back down ; nearly cover with water ; to one fish put two 
tablespoons salt ; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one- 
half hour ; dress with gravy, butter and pepper ; garnish 
with sliced eggs. 

For sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, one 
tablespoon of flour, one-half pint boiling water ; ])oil a 
few minutes, and add three hard boiled eggs, sliced. 

FISH A LA CREME. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 

Take any firm salt water lish, rul) it with salt and put 
it in a kettle with enough boiling \\ater to Cv)ver it. As 
soon as it boils set it back where it will simmer, lot it 
stand for an hour, then take it up and draw out all the 
bones. Put one ounce of flour into a sauce-pan, to which 
add by degree one quart of cream or new milk, mixing it 
very smoothly, then add the juice of one lemon, one 



■..Mmm-m , 



■-"^"^^iifa^- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



65 



onion chopped fine, a bunoli of parsley, a little nutmeg, 
salt and pepper. Put this on the fire, stirring it till it 
forms a thick sauce ; stir in a quarter of a pound of 
butter ; strain the sauce through a sieve. Put a little on 
a dish, then lay the fish on it and turn the remainder of 
the sauce over it. Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs, 
spread over the whole, and bake half an hour a light 
brown. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

■ To one teacup of milk, add one teacup of water ; put 
it on the fire to scald, and when hot stir in a tablespoon 
of flour, previously wet with cold water ; add two or 
three eggs ; season with salt and pepper, a little celery, 
vinegar and three tablespoons of butter. Boil four or 
five eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut in slices, and 
lay over the dish. Then pour over the sauce and serve. 

BAKED HALIBUT OR SAL1\[0N. 

Let the fish remain in cold water, slightly salted, for 
an hour l)efore it is time to cook it ; place the gridiron 
on a dripping pan with a little hot water in it and bake 
in a hot oven ; just before it is done, butter it well on 
the top. and ])ro\vn it nicely. The time of baking de- 
pends upon the size of the fish. A small fish will bake 
in about half an hour, and a large one in an hour. 
They are very nice when cooked as above and served 
with a sauce which is made from the gravy in the drip- 
ping pan, to which is added a tablespoon of catsup and 
another of some pungent sauce and the juice of a lemon. 
Thicken with brown flour moistened with a little cold 



66 



THE HOME COOK liOOK. 



if 



f: fi 



water. Garnish handsomely with sprigs of parsley and 
currant jelly. 

BAKED BLACK BASS. 

Mrs. P. B. Aver. 

Eight good sized onions chopped fine; half that 
quantity of hread crumhs ; hutter size of hen's egg ; 
plenty of pepper and salt, mix thoroughly with anchovy 
sauce until quite red. Stuff your fish with this com- 
pound and pour the rest over it, previously sprinkhng 
it with a little red pepper. Shad, pickerel and trout 
are good the same way. Tomatoes can be used instead 
of anchovies, and are more economical. If using them, 
take pork in place of butter and chop fine. 

BROILED WHITE FISH-FRESH. 

Mrs. G. E. P. 

Wash and drain the fish ; sprinkle with pepper and 
lay with the inside down upon the gridiron, and broil 
over fresh bright coals. When a nice brown, turn for 
a moment on the other side, then take up and spread 
with butter. This is a very nice way of broiling all 
kinds of fish, fresh or salted. A little smoke under the 
fish adds to its flavour. This may be made by putting 
two or three cobs under the gridiron. 

SALT MACKEREL. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Soak the fish for a few liours in lukewarm water, 
changing the water several times ; then put into cold 



,,««SI««fi«# 



i-?SftiHS",' ■ A'JtBSr^a^ 



^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



67 



water loosely tied in cloths, and let the fish come to a 
boil, turning off the water once, and pouring over the 
fish hot water from the tea kettle ; let this just come to 
a boil, then take them out and drain them, lay them on 
a platter, butter and pepper them, and place them for a 
few momenta in the oven. Serve with sliced lemons, 
or with any nice fish sauce. 

BOILED CODFISH— SALT. 

•Soak two pounds of codfish in lukewarm water over 
night or for several hours ; change the water several 
times ; about one hour before dinner put this into cold 
fresh water, and set over the fire ; let it come to a boil, 
or just simmer, for fifteen minutes but not to boil hard, 
then take out of the water, drain and serve with egg 
sauce, or with cold boiled eggs sliced and laid over it, 
V ith a drawn l)utter or cream gravy poured over all. 

EELS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer, 

Skin and parboil them; cleanse the back 'nme of all 
coagulations ; cut them in pieces about three inches in 
length ; dip in fiour and cook in pork fat, brown. 

CHOWDElI. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Five pounds of codfish cut in squares ; fry plenty of 
salt pork cut in thin slices ; put a layer of pork in your 
kettle, then one of fisli ; one of potatoes in thick slices, 
and one of onions in slices ; plenty of pepper and salt ; 



I 



k.#! 



G8 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



J I 



repeat as long as your materials last, and finish with a 
layer of Boston crackers or crusts of bread. Water suffi- 
cient to cook with, or milk if you prefer. Cook one-half 
hour and turn over on your platter, disturhins as little 
as possible. Clams and eels the same way. 

POTTED FISH. 

Mrs. (iridley. 

Take out the backbone of the fish ; for one weighing 
two pounds take a tablespoon of allspice and cloves 
mixed ; these spices should be put into little bags of not 
too thick muslin ; put sufficient salt directly upon each 
fish ; then roll in a cloth, over which sprinkle a little 
cayenne pepper; put alternate layers of fish, spice and 
sago in an earthern jar ; cover with the best cider vinegar ; 
coyer the jar closely with a plate and over this put a cov- 
ering ot <lough, rolled out to twice the thickness of pie 
crust. Afake the edges of paste, to adhere closely to the 
sides of tbe jar, so as to make it air-tight. Put 'the jar 
mto a pot of cold water ami let it boil from tbree to five 
hours, according to (juantity. Ready when cold. 

Sauces for ^'Fish and Meat' will follow " Meats." 



To 



SHELL FISH. 



i I' 



OYSTERS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon 
the top of a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven ; open 



■-?««i«i*?. 



VALUABLE nECIPES. 



69 



the shells with an oyster knife, taking care to lose none 
of the liquor, and serve quickly on hot plates, with toast. 
Oysters may he steamed in the shells, and are excellent 
eaten in the same manner. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Drain the oysters well and dry them with a napkin. 
Ilavt' ready a griddle hot and well l)uttered ; season the 
oysters; lay them to griddk' and l)rown them on both 
sides. Serve them on a hot plate with plenty of butter. 

CREAMED OYSTERS. 

Clura E. Thatclur. 

To one (piart of oysters take one pint of cream or 
sweet milk ; thicken wuth a little flour, as for gravy ; 
when cooked pour in the oysters with liquor ; pepper, salt 
and butter the mixture. Have ready a platter with 
slices of nicely browned toast, pour creamed oysters on 
toast and serve hot. 



OYSTERS A LA CREME. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyon, 



•# 



One quart of oysters, one pint of cream; put the 
oysters in a double kettle, cook until the milk juice begins 
to flow out; drain the oysters in a colander: put the 
cream on the same way ; when it comes to a boil, thicken 
with flour wet with milk as thick as corn starch ready 
to mould ; then put in the oysters and cook five minutes. 
Serve hot on toast. 



70 



THE HOME COOK BOOK, 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. J. B. Lyoii, 

Drain the oysters from the liquor ; put them in a hot 
pan or ..pider; as soon as they hegin to curl, add butter, 
pepper and salt. Serve on toast, or without, if preferred. 

STEWED OYbTERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

In ail cases, unless shell oysters, wash and drain ; mix 
half a cup of butter and a tablespoon of corn stitrch ; put 
with the oysters in a porcelain kettle ; stir until they 
boil ; add two cups of cream or milk ; salt to taste ; do 
not use the liquor of the oysters in either stewing or 
escaloping. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

MrH. Andrews. 

Butter the dish, (common cart*-rn pie-piates are the 
best,) cover the bottom of the dish vvith viry firitj bread 
crumbs ; add a layer of oysters ; sea?., n ^vilh popper and 
sait; alternate the crumbs and oyster.s until you have 
throe layers ; finish with crumbs ; cover the top with 
smal! piecew of butter ; finish around the edge with bread 
cut into sma:! oblong pieces dipped in butter ; bake half 
an hour ; unlei^s shell oysters, wash them thoroughly 
and strain. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Aunt Maggie. 

Make some rich puff paste and bake it in very small 
tin patty pans ; when cool, turn them out upon a large 



f 



@^vl 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



71 



dish ; stew some large fresh oysters with ca few cloves, a 
little mace and nutmeg ; then add the yolk of one egg, 
boiled hard and grated ; add a little butter, and as much 
of the oyster liquor as will cover them. When they have 
stewed a little while, take them out of the pan and set 
them to cool. When quite cold, lay two or three oysters 
in each shell of puff paste. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Mrs. I). Wndskier. 

Ise the largest and best oysters; lay them in rows 
upoji a clean cloth and press another upon them, to 
absorb the moisture ; have ready several beaten eggs ; 
and m another dish some finely crushed crackers ; in the 
frying pan boat enough butter to entirely cove^ the 
oysters ; dip the oysters first into the eggs, then into the 
crackers, roiling it or them over that they may become 
well inci usted ; drop into the frying pan and fry quicklv 
to a hght brown. Serve dry and let the dish be warm". 
A chafing dish is best. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. W. r. Brown, 

For a quart can, drain the oysters dry as possible ; 
put a piece of butter the size of an egg into your spider,' 
and let it get quite brown ; put in your oysters and as 
soon as they commence to cook, add as much more 
butter, which has been previously well mixed with a 
tablespoon of flour ; let it cook a moment and add one 
egg, beaten with a tablespoon of cream; let this cook a 
moment and pour all over toasted bread. 






72 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



STEWED OYSTEKS. 

Mrs. T. McMisb. 

Drain the li(iuor from two quarts of firm, plump oys- 
ters, mix with it a small teacup of hot water, add a little 
salt and pepper, and set over the fire in a saucepan. 
When it hoils, add a large cupful of rich milk. Let it 
hoil up once, add the oysters, let them boil five minutes. 
When they ruffle, add two tablespoons butter, and the 
instant it is melted, and well stirred in, take off the fire. 



J (r 



BEEFSTEAK AND OYSTER PIil. 

MiHS Riley. 

Beat the steak gently with a rolling pin, and season 
with pepper and salt. Have ready a deep dish lined with 
not too rich a pastry. Put in the meat with layers of 
oysters ; then the oyster liquor with a little mace, and a 
teaspoon catsup ; cover with top crust and bake. Veal 
will do as well as beef. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Crush and roll several handfuls of Boston crackers ; 
put a layer in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish. 
Wet this with a mixture of the oyster Hquor and milk 
slightly warmed. Next a layer of oysters sprinkled with 
salt, pepper, and small bits of butter ; then another layer 
of the moistened crumbs, then a layer of oysters, and so 
on till the dish is full. Let the top layer be of crumbs, 
and beat an egg into the milk, which you pour over them. 
Stick bits of butter thickly over it, and bake half an hour. 



.fc.»«rt«w^. !. 



^ ,'■ 



73 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. C. G. Smith. 

'^ n nied kettle, u.th strou. salt a,na water to cover them • 
lot tliem come to a boil, an<l then skim them into cold 
water ; scald whole peppers, mace, and cloves in a little 

vinc.gar ; the quantity of these must be determhied by the 
|uniber of oysters ; when the oysters are cold, put them 
nto a stone jar with layers of spice between them, and 

make liquor enough to cover them from the liquor in 

which they were cooked; spice your vinegar and cold 

water to taste. 

LOBSTER CHOWDER. 

Mrs. Lambkin. 
Four or five pounds of lobster, chopped fine ; take the 
^voen part and add to it four pounded crackers ; stir this 
luto one quart of boiling milk ; then add the lobster a 
piece of butter one-half the size of an egg, a little pepper 
and salt, and bring it to a boil. 

LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

M. A. T. 

The same mixture as given for stuffed lobster, without 
the cream ; made into pointed balls, dipped in egg, and 
then rolled m cracker and fried in very hot lard; served 
dry and garnished with parsley. 

CLAM STEW. 

Mrs. M. L. S. 

Lay the clams on a gridiron over hot coals, taking them 
out oUhe shells as soon as open, saving the juice; add a 



;> 



74 



THE HOMK COOK BOOK. 



little hot water, pepper, a very little salt and butter rolled 
in flour aufficient fir seasoning; cook for five minutes 
and pour over toast. 

CLAM FRITTERS. 

M. A. T. 

Twelve clams chopped or not ; one pint milk ; three 
eggs ; add liquor from clams ; salt and pepper, and flour 
enough for thin batter. Fry in hot lard. 

TRIPE A LA LYONNAISE (LYONS 1 SPTOiN). 

When any cold tripe remains, cut it ia thin slices 
about an inch square, and wipe it very dry. Mince two 
onions, put some butter (in the proportion of 3 oz, to 1 
lb. of tripe) into a frying-pan with the onions ; when 
they are about half done put in the cripe, and let all fry 
for about ten minutes ; season with pepper and salt, 
and three tablespoonfuls of vinc^^ur to each pound of 
tripe. Serve very hot. 

TRIPE. 

From Lady Harriet St. Clair's Dainty Dishes. 

Staved Tripe. — Select two pounds of double tripe well 
cleaned and blanched, cut in pieces of rather less than 
a quarter of a pound each, put in a clean stew-pan with 
a pint of milk and one of water, two tea -poonfuls of salt, 
one of pepper, eight middle-sized onions carefully 
peeled ; set it on to boil, which it should do at first 
rather fast, then simmer till done, which will be in 
rather more than half n.n hour. Put it into n deep dish 
or tureen and serve with the milk and onioi 



I 



i 



% 



iff^iir"' ■•"' "'—"-■-■*"■ 



POULTRY AND GAME. 



" Whoso seeks au audit here, 
Propitious pays his tribute—game or lish, 
Wild fowl or venison, and his errand speed." 

POULTEY. 



— COWPER. 



When poultry is brought into the kitchen for use it 
should be kept as cool as possible. The best posi- 
lion in which to place it is with the breast down- 
wards on a shelf or marble slab. The crop should be 
taken out. Choose fowls with a thin, transparent skin, 
white and delicate. Time required to boil poultry : a 
chicken will take about 20 minutes ; a fowl about » 
minutes ; a small turkey an hour and a half ; a large 
turkey two hours or more. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Take',. :vOung fowl au<l fill the inside with oysters; 
place in a jar and plunge ii'to a kettle of water ; boil for 
one and one-half houi-s ; tiiere will be a quantity of 
gravy in the jiir from the i . ce oi the fowl and the 
oysters ; make this into a wmte sa 'o with the addition 
of egg, cream, or a Httle flour and Her : add oysters, 
or serve up plain with the fowl. This in ery nice with 
the addition of a little parslc/ to the sauce. 



76 



THK HOME COOK BOOK. 



ROAST TURKEY OR CHIClvEN. 

llaving picked and drawn the fowls, wash them well 
in two or three waters ; wipe them dry ; dredf];e them 
with a little flour inside and out, and a little pepper and 
salt -, prepare a dressing of hread and cracker crumhs, 
till the bodies and crops of the fowls and then l)ake them 
from two to three hours ; baste them fret^uently while 
roasting ; stew the giblets in a saucepan ; just before 
serving, chop the giblets fine ; after taking up the 
chicken, and the water in which the giblets were boiltMl, 
add the chopped giblets to the gravy of the roast fowl ; 
thicken with a little flour, which has been p viously 
wet with the water ; boil up, and serve in a gravy-dish. 
Roast chickens and turkey should be accompanied with 
celery and jellies. 

TO BOIL A TURKLY. 

Mrs. Hubert Beaty. 

Make a stuffing for the craw of chopped bread and 
butter, cream, oysters, and the yolks of eggs ; sew it in, 
and dredge flour over the turkey, and put it to boil in 
cold water, with a spoonful of salt in it, and enough 
water to cover tin ra well; let it simmer for two hours 
and a half, or, if small, less time ; skim it while boil- 
ing; it looks nicer if wrapped in a cloth dredged with 
Hour; serve it with drawn butter, in which put some 
oysters. 

ROAST CHICKENS. 

Mrs. Jas. Beaty. 

Wash them clean outside and inside ; stuff them as 



I 






mmm 



¥ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



77 






directed for turkeys; baste them with butter, bird, or 
drippings, and roast them al)out an hour. Chickens 
should hv cooked thoroughly. Stew the inwards till 
tender, and till there is but little water; chop them and 
mix in gravv from the dripping-pan ; thicken with brown 
flour; season with salt, pepper, and butter. Cran- 
berry or new made apple sauce, is good with them. 

TO STEW BIRDS. 

l^^N. Jas. Beaty. 

Wash and stuff them with bread crumbs, seasoned 
with pepper, salt, butter or chopped salt pork, and fasten 
tlum tight. Line a stew pan with slices of bacon, add a 
quart of water and a bit of butter the si«e of a goose egg, 
or else four slices of salt pork. Add if you like sliced 
onions, and sweej herbs and mace. Stew till tender, 
then take then? up and strain the gravy over them. Add 
boiling water if the liquor is too much reduced. 

ON THE PllEPARATION OF HASHES, GRAVIES, 

AND SAUCES. 

Mrs. Jas. Beaty. 

There is nothing worse for the health, or for the palate, 
than a poor hash, while a good hash is not only a 
favourite dish in most families, but an essential article 
of economy and convenience. For this reason a separate 
article is devoted to this subject. The fallowing are the 
ways in which hashes are spoilt. The first is by cooking 
them. Meat, vvIum on. , conked, should only be heated. 
If it is again stewed or fried, it tends to make it hard or 



0'.. 




1 1 



I 
M 1 



78 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



tough, and diminishes its ilavoiir. The second is by fry- 
ing the butter or uravif in wliich they arc prepared. It 
has l)eeu shown that this is very injurious to the health- 
fuhiess of food. Butter and oils may he melted without 
changing their nature, but when cooked, they become 
much more indigestible and injurious to weak stomachs. 
The third mode of injuring hashes is l)y putting in flour 
in such ways that it is not properly cooked. Flour 
dredged on to hashes while they are cooking imparts the 
raw taste of dough. The fourth mode is by putting in 
so much water as to make them vapid, or else so much 
grease as to make them gross. The fifth is by seasoning 
them with so little care, that they either have very little 
savory taste, or else are so hot with jiepper and spice as to 
be unhealthy. If a housekeeper will foMow these direc- 
tions, or give them to a cook who will follow them exactly, 
sIk^ will always have good and healthful hashes. 

TO CUliRY CHICKIIN. 

Mrs. W. Artlmrs. 

Slice an onion and brown in a little butter ; add a 
spoonful of curry powder ; allow it to remain covered 
for a few minutes to cook ; add a little more butter and 
put in chicken, veal, li'c, &c.; cut up small, thicken 
with a little flour. This is excellent. 

BAKED CHICKEN. 

AnonyiuouR. 

Cut the fowls open and lay them fiat in a pan, break- 
ing down the breast and the back bones ; dredge with 






nam 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



79 



flour and season well with salt and pepper, with bits of 
butter ; pat in a very hot oven until done, basting fre- 
quently with melted l)utter ; or when half done take out 
the chicken and finish by broiling it upon a gridiron 
over bright coals ; pour over it melted butter and the 
juices in the pan in which it was baked. 



,• 



CHICKEN feicasbep:;. 

Sarah Page. 

Cut up the chickens and put on the fire in a kettle 
with cold water sufficient to cover, aJd a little salt or 
salt pork shced, if you like ; boil until tender, and cut 
up and put in part of a head of celery. When tender 
have ready hot l)aking-powder biscuits broken open and 
laid on a platter ; on this place the chicken ; thicken 
the gravy with flour moistened with water or milk, and 
pour it over the chicken and biscuits. If you prefer, 
use a good-sized piece of butter to season instead of the 
salt pork. Oysters are an addition. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Mrs. Bauslitr. 

Cut the chicken ; pieces, lay it in salt and water, 
which change 8e\^.,u times; roll each piece in flour; 
fry in very hot lard or butter, season with salt and pep- 
per; fry parsley with them also. IMake a gravy of 
cream seasoned with salt, pepper and a little mace, 
thickened with a little flour in t)io p;in in wlvlch the 
chickens were fried, pouring oft' the lard. 






: 


1 J 


■ ! 


, 


fir, 



®0 THE IIuJIE COOK BOOK. 

DRESSING FOR CHICKENS OR TURKEY. 

Mrs. P. D. 

Chop bread crumbs quite lino, season well with pep- 
per, salt, and plenty of l)utter; moisten with a very little 
water, and add a few oysters with a little of the liquor, 
if you please. The best authorities say the dressing is 
the finest when it crumbles as the fowl is cut. 

DRESSING FOR TURKEY. 

C. Kennicot. 

One pint of soaked bread, two tablespoons of sage, 
two tablespoons of summer savory, two teaspoons of 
salt, two teaspoons pei)per, butter size of an egg. 

CHICKEN CHEESE. 

Two chickens boiled tender, chop, but not too fine ; 
salt and pei)[)er ; three or four eggs boiled and sliced ; 
line dishes or moulds with them ; pour in the chicken 
iind the li(]Uor they were boiled in ; when cold slice. 
Should be boiled in as little water as possible. 

CURRY. 

Miss IJrokovwki. 

To make curry with rabbit, chicken, or any; other 
meat. Hour the meat and fry it a nice light brown ; fry 
also two large onions in the same way; mix a table- 
spoonful ()f curry powder, and a small (juantity of 
cayenne in a tea cup, with warm water in the coiisiHtHUfiy 
of cream, and cover every part of the meat with the 



\ 



« • 






MW 



VALTJADLE RECIPES. 



81 



le 
is 



mixture ; have ready some nice stock or thin gravy ; 
put all togetlier into a stew-pan, and let it stev gently 
for twenty minutes; hefore serving slice two or three 
apples, lot them stew away ; this addition is thought to 
he a great improvement, as it makes the curry milder; 
rice to he hoiled very dry and served around the dish. 

JELLIED CHICKEN. 

M. A. T. 

Boil a fowl until it will slip easily from the hones ; let 
the water he reduced to ahout one pint in hoiling ; pick 
the meat from the hones in good sized pieces, taking out 
all gristle, fat, and hones; place in a wet mould; skim the 
fat from the liquor ; a little hutter ; pepper and salt to 
the taste and one half ounce of gelatine. When this dis- 
solves, pour it hot over the chicken. The liquor Uiust he 
seasoned pretty high, for the chicken ahsorhs. 

(^HTCKEN PIE. 

Mrs. H. 

Stew chickens until tender; line the sides of a deep pie 
dish with nice pastry; put in the chicken, and the water 
in which it has hoiled, (which should he hut half a pint); 
season with a large piece of butter, salt and pepper, and 
then cover loosely with crust. While this is haking, 
have ready a quart can of line oysters ; put on the fire a 
pint of rich milk, (or the liquor of the oysters will do); 
let it come to a boil; thicken with a little flour, and 
season witli huttor, pepper, arid salt ; pour this over the 
.oysters hoiling hot, and ahout lifteen minutes hefore the 



( » 



I 







! !' 



H: 



82 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



pie is done, lift the crust and pour the oysters and all into 
the pie ■ then return to the oven to finish. 

CHICKEN LOAF. 

Mrs. W. II. Low. 

Take two chickens, boil them in as little water as pos- 
sible until the meat will drop from the bones ; cut it with 
a knife and fork, then put it back into the kettle ; put in 
plenty of butter, pepper and salt ; heat it thoroughly ; 
boil an egg hard and slice it and place it in the bottom 
of a dish ; pour it in hot, place a weight upon it, and put 
it away to cool ; it will come out in form. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Marion Harland. 

Minced chicken ; a])out one-cpiarter as nmch line bread 
crumbs as you have of meat ; one egg beaten light to 
eacli cup of meat ; gravy enough to moisten the crumbs 
and chicken ; or, if you have no gravy, a little drawn 
butter ; pepper and salt and chopped parsley to taste ; 
yolks of two hard boiled eggs rubbed fine with the back 
of a silver spoon, added to the meat ; mix up into a paste 
with as little handling as may be ; nor nmst the paste be 
too wet to mould readily ; make with floured hands into 
rolls or ovatt! balls, roll in Hour until well coated, and 
fry a few at a time, lest crowding should injure the 
shape, in nice dripi)iiig, or a mixture half lard and half 
butter. As you take them out lay in a hot colander, 
that every drop of fat may be drained off. Serve in a 
heated dish with cresses or parsley. 



t 



f 



MIffiWiWffil 



mm 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 88 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 

Four and one-half pounds chicken boiled and chopped 
very fine ; moisten to a thick pulp with the liquor in 
which it has been boiled. Mix with this a pint and a 
half of mashed potatoes, beaten to a cream ; three eggs, 
one teaspoon of mustard, sweet majoram, salt and pepper 
to taste ; a little celery chopped very fine ; soften with 
milk till very soft, and add a quarter of a pound of butter. 
Mould into forms, dip in egg and cracker dust, and fry 
in boiling lard. 



« • 



CHICKEN PATES. 

Mince chicken that has been previously roasted or 
boiled, and season well ; stir into this a sauce made of 
half a pint of milk, into which while boiling a teaspoon- 
ful of corn starch has been added to thicken , season with 
butter, about a teaspoonful, and salt and pei)per to 
taste. Have ready small pate pans lined with a good 
puff paste. Bake the crust in a brisk oven ; then fill the 
pans and set in the oven a few minutes to brown very 
slightly. 

DUCKS. 

Miss S. P. 

When roasted, use dressing as for turkey, with the 
addition of a few slices of onion. Many cooks lay over 
the game slices of onions, which take away the fishy 
flavour, removing the onion before serving. Make a 
sauce with the drippings in the pan in which the game 



wfumim u m 




84 



THE IIOMK COOK BOOK. 



m 






ft ■. 



' 



t 



is roastod, and to which are put the chopped giblets, 
which are previously well cooked ; thicken tlie gravy with 
brown flour, moistened with water. Serve with currant 
jt'lly. 

HOAST GOOSE. 

Stuff and roast in the same manner as ducks. Many 
cooks cover poultry with a paste of flour and water while 
baking, removing it before it is served. 

TO ROAST WILD FOWL. 

M. A. T. 

Put an onion, salt and hot water into a pan, and baste 
for ten or lifteen minutes; change the pan; put in a slice 
of salt pork and baste with butter and pork drijjpings very 
often ; just before serving dredge lightly with flour and 
baste. Ducks take from twenty-live to thirty-live minutes 
to roast, and woodcock and snipes lifteen to twenty-live. 

Do not draw or take off the heads of (uther. Garnish 
with fried or toaste;! bread, lemon, parsley, and currant 
jtdiy. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES, AND QUAILS. 

Miss Hiimh Pago. 

Clean nicely, using a little soda in the water in which 
they arc washed; rinse them and dry, and then fill them 
with dressing, sewing tiiein up nicely, and binding down 
the legs and wings with cords. Put them in a steamer 
over liot water, and lot them cook until just done. Then 
place th(Mi in a pan with n little butter ; set them in the 



MMaaHUa 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



85 



t^. 



oven and baste them frequently with melted butter until 
of a nice brown. They ought to brown nicely in about 
iifteen minutes. Serve them on a plattur, with sprigs of 
parsley alternating with currant jelly. 

Q[TAIL ON TOAST. 

After the birds are nicely cleaned, cut them open down 
the l)ack ; salt and pepper them, and dredge with lour.-*»v 
Break down the breast and back-bones, so they will lie flat,^ . 
and place them in a [)an with very little water and but- 
ter in a hot oven, covering theui up tightly until nearly 
done. Then place them in a spider in hot butter, and fry 
a moment to a nice brown. Have ready slices of baker's 
bread toasted, and slightly buttered upon a platter. The 
toast should be broken down with a carving knife, so that 
it will be tender. On this place the quail ; make a sauce 
of the gravy in the pan, thicken lightly with browned flour, 
and pour over each quail and the toast. 

A SUGGESTION. 

M. A. T. 

Singe all poultry with alcohol, and dip quails into clari- 
tied butter for broiling. 

PRESSED CHICKEN. 

MiH. C. Belford. 

Cut up the fowls and place in a kettle with a tight cover, 
HO as to retain the steam; put about two teacups of water 
and plenty of salt and pepper over the chicken, tlieu let 
it cook until the meat cleaves easily from the bones, cut 



^ ^. 



^ a*. iii 







ffntfigW i 



86 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



or chop all the meat (freed from skin, hone and gristle) 
ahout as for chicken salad ; season well, put into a dish 
and pour the remnant of the juice in which it was cooked 
over it. This will jelly when cold, and can then be sliced 
or set on the table in shapy. Nice for tea or lunch. The 
knack of making this simple dish is not having too much 
water ; it will not jelly if too weak, or if the water is 
allowed to boil away entirely while cooking. 

PIGEON PIE. 

Mrs. L. 

Make a fine puff paste ; lay a border of it around a large 
dish, and cover the bottom with a veal cutlet, or a very 
tender steak free from fat and bone ; season with salt, 
cayenne pepper, and mace. Prepare as many pigeons as 
can ' ; put in one layer of the dish; put in each pigeon a 
sr lump of l)utter, and season with pepper and salt ; 
If 1 lem in the dish breast downwards, and cut in slices 
a ha f dozen of hard boiled eggs, and lay in with the birds ; 
put n more butter, some veal broth, and cover the whole 
with crust. Bake slowly for an hour and a half. 



Be si 

Com II 
And \ 



GEI 



All sa 
salt ma} 
is boiled 
put to C( 
tract, th 

For m 
extract t 

In boi 
which is 
meat coi 

Re mo 
more gei 
Allow tw 
meat. 

lioast : 

iliiuUtos 

meat. ] 



MEATS. 



— " Cook, Hoe all your sawces 
Be sharp aiul poyuant ia the palate, that they may 
Commend you ; look to your roast and baked meats haudsomoiy 
And what new kickshaws and delicate made things." 

—Beaumont and Flktcher. 

GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING MEATS. 

All salt meat should be put on in cold water, that the 
Bait may bo extracted while cooking. Fresh meat, which 
IS boiled to be served with sauces at the table, should be 
put to cook m boiling water; when the outer fibres con- 
tract, the inner juices are preserved. 

For making soup, put the meat over in cold water, to 
extract the juices for the broth. 

In boiling meats, if more water is needed, add that 
which IS hot, and be careful to keep the water on the 
meat constantly boiling. 

Remove the scum when it first begins to boil The 
more gently meat boils, the more tender it will become. 
Allow twenty minutes for boiling each pound of fresh 
meat. 

^ Roast meats require a brisk fire. Baste often. Twenty 
xumutcs 18 required for roasting each pound of fresh 
meat. The variation in roasted meats consists simply 



n 



-grv^ 



88 



THE HOMK COOK BOOK. 



Pl 



ill the iiiotljod of proparing them to cook, before putting 
them in the oven. Some are to he hirdeil, some Htuffed 
with hread dressinf];, and others pUiin, only seasoning 
with pepper and salt. 

A piece of red pepper, cooked in a hoiled dinner, is 
very nice. 

ROAST BEEF. 

MrH. C. n.'lfoid. 

Prepare for the oven by dredging lightly with flonr, 
and seasoning with salt and pepper ; place in the oven, 
and baste frequently while roasting. Allow a quarter 
of an hour for a pound of meat, if you like it rare ; 
longer if you like it well done. Serve with a sauce, 
made from the drij^pings in the pan, to which has been 
added a tablespoon of Harvey or Worcestershire sauce, 
and a tablespoon of tomato catsup. 

YOltKSlllIlE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Gale. 

One and a half pints milk, six large tablespoonfuls 
flour, three eggs, one saltspoonful salt ; bake under the 
meat for one hour and a half. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDINC. 

Mrs. Joseph B. Leake. 

To be eaten with roast beef, instead ■ ■ a vegetable. 
Three tablespoons Hour, mixed with one pint of milk, 
three eggs and a little salt. Pour into a shallow tin 
baking pan ; put into oven, an hour before dinner, for 



fgitjw 




Valuable li cipes. 



d9 



ton mintiteH : hen put it under the roasting betf and 
leave it till von take uj) the l)eef ; leave it ii about five 
minutes after you Luke up the beef; then pour >ff the 
fat and send it to the taole. 

BEEFSTEAK AND MUSHBOOMS. 

Mrs. I'orry H, Smith. 

Pt t in a saucepan one ounce of butter, ^ small oiiion 
chopped 'Ine, a little ground sage, and a little thyme, 
and put it over the lire ; whtn hot, shake in two table- 
siJoouH of flour, and when it becomes brown, i at in one 
gill of water, and let it boil for half an hour. Then add 
three tablespoons of beef stock, a little salt, a little 
nutmeg and on. wine glass of sherry wine. Put in one 
can of Hi ishrooms, and let it Ijoil for ten minutes. Poui' 
this over a nicely broiled beefsteak. 

BEOTLED BEEFSTEAK. 

Lay a thick tender teak upon a gridiron over hot 
coals, having gr. is« , the bars with ntter before the 
steak has been put u pon it ; (a steel griu , . on with slender 
bars is to be i)referr<(l, the broad flat iron bars of grid- 
irons commonly used fry and scorch the meat, impart- 
ing a disagreeable flavour). When done on one side, 
have ready your platter warmed, with a little butter on 
it ; lay the steak upon the platter with the cooked side 
down, that the juices which have gathered may run on 
the platter, but do not pnss the meat; then 'lay your 
beefsteak again upon the gi'idiron quickly and cook the 
other side. When done to your liking, put again on the 



I 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No, 2) 



1.0 



i.l 



1.25 



■ 3.2 









13.6 



1.4 



2.5 
2.2 



1112. mil 2.0 



1.8 



1.6 



A dfifLJED INA>1GE Inc 



1 65 J Eost Mam Street 

i^ochestet. New Yorl< 14609 USA 

."6) 482 - OJOO - Phone 

{7)6) ?B8 - "iqRg - ro« 



:JS 



90 



THE HOME CCOK BOOK. 



platter, spread lightly with butter, place where it will keep 
warm for a few moments, but not to let the butter be- 
come oily, (over boiling steam is best) ; and then serve 
on hot plates. Beefsteak should never be seasoned with 
salt and pepper while cooking. If your meat is tough, 
pound irell with a steak mallet on both sides. 

BEEF LOAF. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three and a half pounds veal or beef, minced very fine, 
and uncooked ; four large crackers, crushed very*^ fine ! 
one egg, one cup of milk, butter size of an egg, one 
tablespoon salt, one of pepper; mix in shape of a loaf, 
and bake in a slow oven two hours and a hall, basting 
often ; to be eaten cold ; very nice for tea or lunch. 



BP]EP EN MIBOTON. 

Mrs. 8. MeMaster. 

Cut thin slices of cold roast beef, and put them into a 
frymg pan with some butter and six onions, turn the 
pan frecpiently, then mix a little broth, add pepper and 
salt, and after a few boils serve up hot. 

BEEP WITH TOMATOES. 

Mrs. P. B. Aycr. 

Eight pounds fresh plate beef, second cut broiled ; boil 
tender two quarts tomatoes, three cloves, plenty butter, 
pepper and salt ; when cooked nicely and thick, strain 
through a colander and pour over your beef and serve 
liol or cold. 



•■ 



h^,. 



V 



Ig 



" 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 91 

TO BOIL CORNED BEP^^F. 

Mrs. 0. Beaty. 

Put the beef in water enough to cover it, and let it 
heat slowly, and boil slowly, and be careful to take off 
the grease. Many think it much improved by boiling 
potatoes, turnips, and cabbages with it. In this case 
the vegetables must be pealed and all the grease care- 
fully skimmed as fast as it rises. Allow about twenty 
minutes of boiling for each pound of meat. 

BFEF OR VEAL STEWED WITH APPLES. 

Mrs. James Beaty. 

Rub a stewpan with butter ; cut the meat in thin 
slices, and put in with peppe •, salt, and apple, sHced 
fine ; some would add a little onion. Cover it tight, 
and stew till tender. 



.11 



%,,, 



li 



I 



I ! 



r 



DOMESTIC RECEIPTS 



TO COOK A HAIVE (VERY FINE). 

MiH. J. Beaty. 

Boil ca common-sized ham four or five hours, then 
sldn the wliole and fit it for the table ; then set it m an 
oven for half an hour, then cover it thickly with pounded 
rusk or bread crumbs, and set it back for half an hour. 
Boiled ham is always improved by setting it into an 
oven for nearly an hour, till much of the fat fries out ; 
and this also makes it more tender. 

TO BOIL A LEG OF VEAL OR MUTTON. 

MiHS Kate Beaty. 

Make a stuffing of bread and a quarter as much of 
salt pork, chopped fine and seasoned with sweet herbs, 
pepper and salt. IMake deep gashes, or, what is better, 
take out the bone with a carving-knife and fill up with 
stuffing, and saw up the opening with strong thread. 
When there is a flap of flesh lap it over the opening and 
sew it down. Put it into a large pot and fill it with 
water, nutting in a tablespoonful of salt, and let it sim- 
mer slowly three hours. If it is needful to add water 
pour in hoiitng water. 



t 



^^.-s^Et^ffi^^^aaa^w*^™"*^ ■ 



tj S^aj.j-aa^ - ■ ^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



93 






SA.LLIE MUNDEirS WAY OF DRESSING COLD 

MEAT. 

Mince beef or mutton, small, with onions, pepper and 
salt ; add a little gravy, put into scallop shells or small 
cups, making them three parts full, and fill them up 
with potatoes mashed with a little cream, put a bit of 
butter on the top and brown them in an oven. 

BOILED BEEF (COLD). 

Madame E. Peruet. 

To use next day or when you like, for breakfast. 

Melt a good lump of butter, about two ounces, over a 
slow tire,"into a tablespoonful of flour ; when it has 
simmered a little add some chopped onion (to taste) and 
a dessert spoonful of chopped parsley when brown ; 
season with pepper and add a little stock or gravy, or 
water ; mince the meat, put it in with the rest, and let 
it heat gradually ; when nearly boiling thicken with a 
teaspoonful of flour. Add a little catsup or saucp of 
any kind. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Miss Sarah Page. 

Take a piece of beef four or five inches thick, and 
with a knife make small holes entirely through it 
at Slight distances apart. Then take strips of fat salt 
pork, roll the; 2 in pepper and cloves. Lay on a pan, 
cover closely, and put over in a steamer, and steam for 
three hours". When done thicken the gravy in the pan 
with a little flour. This is excellent when eaten as cold 
meat. 



i^. % 



i3,m^m'S'^mFm!>>''^^m'. 



94 



THE HOMK COOK BOOK. 



i' 



n ! 



'•«!; 



MOCK DUCK. 

Mrs. ('. C. Stratton. 

Take the round of beefsteak, salt aud pepper either 
side ; prepare broad or crackers with oysters or with- 
out, as for stuffing a turkey ; lay your stuffing on the 
meat ; sew up and roast about an hour ; and if you do 
not see the wings and legs you will think you have roast 

duck. 

BEEF OMELET. 

Mrs. S. B. Adams. 
Four pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped tine ; 
six eggs beaten together ; five or six soda crackers rolled 
finc,°li^ile butter and suet, pepper, salt, and sage, if 
you choose ; make two loaves, roll in cracker ; bake 
about an hour ; slice when cold. 

SPICED BEEF. 

Mrs. E. 11. Harmon. 

Four pounds of round of beef chopped fine ; take 
from it all fat ; add to it three dozen small crackers 
rolled line, four eggs, one cup of milk, one tablespoon 
ground mace, two tablespoons of black pepper, one 
tablespoon melted butter; mix well and put in any tin 
pan that it will just fill, packing it well; baste with 
butter and water, and bake two hours in a slow oven, 

MEAT FROM SOUP BONES. 

Mrs. DeForcst. 
Before thickening the soup or putting in the vege- 
tables, take out a large bowl of the liquor ; take the 









a 



VALUAHLE RECIPES. 



95 



meat from the bones, chop it fine, season with catsup 
and spices ; pour over the Ucpior, which should be thick 
enough to jelly when cold ; put into moulds and serve 
cold in slices. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. 

Mrs. J. B. E. 

Chop fine some cold beef ; beat two eggs and mix 
with the meat and add a little milk, melted butter, and 
salt and pepper. Make into rolls and fry. 

BEEF CAKES FOR A SIDE DISH OF DRESSED 

MEAT. 

Mrs. S. MoMaster, Toronto. 

Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat 
bacon or ham ; season with pepper and salt, and a little 
shalot or garlic. Mix them well, and make into small 
cakes three inches long and half as wide and thick ; fry 
them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick 
gravy. 

BEEF OR VEAL LOAF. 

Three pounds of meat chopped fine with one-fourth 
of a pound of salt pork, six Boston crackers powdered 
fine, one sheet of Cooper's isinglass dissolved in a coffee- 
cup of warm water, one tablespoon of butter, one tea- 
spoon of salt, and one of pepper, one of powdered cloves, 
or a nutmeg grated. Mix well together with two eggs ; 
bake one hour. This will shoe well when cold. 






If! 



i f 






95 THE liOME COOK BOOK. 

PRESERVED BEEF. 

Mrs. Carter. 

For preserving one liuiulred ])OUU(ls beef : Six pounds 
salt, two ounces salt-petre, two tal.lospoons soda, two 
pounds sugar, four gallons water ; mix well together ; 
sprinkle the bottom of the barrel with salt ; put m the 
beef with very little salt between each layer ; pour over 
the brine and put on a weight to keep all well covered. 

TO CORN BEEF. 

Mrs. A. M. Gil)bK. 

To each gallon of cold water, put one quart of rock 
salt, one ounce of salt-petre and four ounces of brown 
Bucrar, (it need not be boiled), as long as any salt remams 
undissolved, the meat will be sweet. If any scum should 
rise, scald and skim well ; add more salt, salt-petre and 
sugar ; as you put each piece of meat into the brme, rub 
over with salt. If the weather is hot, gash the meat to 
the bone, and put it in salt. Put a flat stone or some 
weight on the meat to keep it under the brine. 

Or this: To every four gallons of water allow two 
pounds of brown sugar and six pounds of salt, boil about 
twenty minutes, taking off the scum; the next day turn 
it on the meat packed in the pickling tub ; pour off this 
brine ; boil and strain every two months, adding three 
ounces of brown sugar and half a pound of common salt. 
It will keep good a year. Sprinkle the meat with salt 
the next day, wipe dry before turning the pickle over it. 
Let it entirely cover the meat ; add four ounces salt-petre. 
Canvas lids are excellent for covering, as they admit the 



T 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



97 



air and excliKlo flien. Mutton and beef may be kept 
sweet several weeks by simply rubbing well with dry salt 
and closely covering. Turn the pieces whenever the 
vessel is uncovered. 

BOILED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. EUi>^. 

Half boil a tongue, then stew it with a sauce made of 
a little broth, tlour, parsley, one small onion, one small 
carrot, salt and pepper, and one can of tomatoes cooked 
and strained. Lay the tongue on a dish and stram the 
sauce over it. 

VEAL CAKE. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Butter your mould, then put in a layer of veal and 
ham, cut in thin slices, season it with cayenne, salt, a 
little' beaten mace, some parsley, and a very little sha- 
lot some eggs boiled hard and cut in slices ; press it 
down and bake it, make a little veal gravy with a few 
shreds of Isinglass, strain it, and add a small quantity 
of catsup, pour it over hot, when cold turn it out. 

PICKLED POEK (EQUAL TO FRESH). 

Mrs. Dr. Olipbant. 

Let the meat cool thoroughly, cut into pieces four to 
six inches wide, weigh them and pack as tight as possi- 
ble salting lightly. Cover the meat with brme as strong 
as 'possible. Next day pour off a gallon of the brme 
and mix with it a ta lespoonful of saltpetre for every 



i> w 



98 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



f-:; 



lnuuhc'd pounds of meat, and return it to the barrel. 
Let it stand one month, take out the meat and let it 
drain twelve hours. Put tlie brini; into an iron kettle, 
add a (juart of molasses or two pounds sugar, and l)oil 
till clear. When cold return the meat to the barrel and 
pour on the brine. Cover it close, and you will have 
the sweetest meat you ever tasted. 

STEWED TONGUE. 

Mrs. .!. Ellis. 

Cut square lillets of bacon, which dredge with a mix- 
ture of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a little allspice. 
Lard the tongue with the lillets ; put in a sauce-pan 
two ounces of bacon cut in slices, four sprigs of parsley, 
two of thyme, a little garlic, two cloves, two carrots cut 
in small pieces, two small onions, salt and pepper. Lay 
the tongue on the whole ; wet with a glass of white 
wine and a glass of broth. Set it on a moderate fire 
and simmer about five hours, keeping it well covered. 
Put the tongue on a dish and strain the sauce over it. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Mrs. G. Brown. 

Boil well in clear water until tender, seasoning the 
water with salt ; serve with egg sauce, and garnish 
with parsley, sliced lemons, or some sour jelly. 

MUTTON A LA VENISON. 

Mrs. J. B. L. 

Take a leg of mutton and lard it well with strips of 






— ."tlW-.** t35»ivasip-.l" 



VALUABLK UKCIPEt4. 



99 



salt pork insortea in deep slits in the meat, which has 
been previously rolled in pepper and cloves ; hake two 
hours or according to the size of the roast, basting fre- 
quently while in the oven ; about an hour before serving, 
spread over it currant jelly, return to the oven and let 
it brown. 

MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut them nicely, clearing away all ragged ends and 
edges ; fry for a few nKnnents covered closely, and then 
dip each piece in cracker crumbs and beaten egg, or you 
may prepare them as for frying; then, lay them in a 
dripping pan, and put into the oven to bake ; baste fre- 
quently with a little melted butter and water. 

KOAST VEAL. 

Mrs.D. S. F. 

Prepare a leg of veal for the oven, by washing, dry- 
ing, and larding it with strips of fat bacon or ham, and 
dredging it well with Hour, and seasoning with salt and 
pepper; baste frequently and serve with the gravy 
thickened. A roast fillet of veal should be prepared by 
stuffing it with bread crumbs, seasoned with chopped 
ham, summer savory, pepper and salt. Dredge lightly 
with flour and bake. 

NECK PIECE OR SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Mrs. C. C. Stratton. 

Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a kettle ; 
put it on the stove ; when it begins to fry, put m the 



\ 



I 
1 



! 
I 

1; I 




100 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



voal, season it and let it fry until brown ; then add 
water sufficient to cook it. AVlujn done take cream and 
Hour well stirred, and tliicken as for fricasseed chicken, 
and you have a nice dinner, very like chicken and much 
cheaper. Two pounds of veal will make a dinner for 
six or eight, providing it is not all bone. 

VEAL PATES. 

Mrs. n. Baird. 

Chop some cold veal tine, moisten with cream and an 
egg, beaten; season with salt, sweet marjoram, and 
])owdered mace ; then make up with the hands in the 
shape of cones or patty-cakes, and roll in crumbs. 
Either fry in a buttered pan or bake in a hot oven. 

PATE OF VEAL. 

Mrs. L. J. Tilton. 

Three and one-half pounds of the leg of veal, fat and 
lean, chopped line; si.x or eight small crackers rolled fine ; 
two eggs, piece of batter the size of an egg, one table- 
spoon of salt, one of pepper, and one of nutmeg; a slice 
of salt pork chopped fine. Work all together in the 
form of a loaf; put bits of butter and grate bread 
crumbs over the top. Bake two hours ; to be cut in 
slices when cold. 

VEAL CUTLETS, A LA FRIED OYSTERS. 

Mrs. A. M. Oibbs. 

Cut the veal in small pieces three or four inches 
square ; dry with a towel ; season to taste ; have ready 



con'' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



101 



a beaten egg and crackers rolled ^ne, each on separate 
dishes ; dip each piece of the cutlet in tlie egg, then in 
the rolled cracker ; have enough lard or butter hot in 
your Bpidcr so that it will nearly cover the cutlets when 
you put them in. A rich gravy can be made after the 
meat is done by adding a little boiling water. 



HASHED LAMB OR MUTTON— COLD MEAT 

COOKERY. 

Madame L. Fernet. 

Take your bones, and stew them in a little water with 
an onion, some salt and pepper, and, if you like, a little 
savoury herbs; when the goodness is all out of the 
bones, and it tastes nice, thicken the gravy with a tea- 
spoonful of corn starch, and if it is not very strong put 
in a bit of butter, then place your stew pan on the hot 
hearth, and put in your slices of meat. Warm but not 
boil. Serve with toasted bread. 



SPICED VEAL. 

Mrs. C. E. Brown. 

Take four pounds veal, chop it fine and season highly 
with salt, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon ; add four small 
crackers rolled out, one egg, and a lump of butter nearly 
the size of an egg ; mix thoroughly together and press it 
in a baking tin, and bake two and a half hours. When 
thoroughly cold, siics for tea. Some prefer it in rolls, 
r.-^n-""v^i'i"+ fr>v aiipinnr flnrl bakpd fvom one-half to three- 

quarters of an hour. 




102 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

JELLIED VEAL. 

M. A. T. 

Boil the veal tender, pick it up fine, put in a mould, 
add the water it was hoiled in, and set it in a cold place ; 
S(\ason with salt and popper to taste ; a layer of hard 
boiled egfjs improves it. 

FRICANDEAU. 

Mrs. J. M. Brown and Mrs. M. L. 

Three and one-half pounds of cold roast veal chopped 

fine, one tablespoon of salt and one of pepper, one-half 

of a nutmeg, four or five rolled crackers, three eggs. If 

the veal is thin, add a piece of butter half as large as an 

egg, and tablespoon of cream. Form all this in a large 

roll, and spot the roll over with bits of butter ; then 

strew over it the pounded crackers, (a little of the cracker 

should be mixed with the meat), put it in the oven, and 

from time to time add a little water. Cook slowly two 

hours. When cold, slice thin, and it makes an excellent 
relish. 



SWEET BREADS. 

Scald in salt and water, take out the stringy parts ; 
then put in cold water a few minutes ; dry in a towel ; 
dip in egg and bread crumbs, and fry lu'own in butter ; 
when done place in a hot dish ; pour into the pan a cup 
of sweet cream, a little pepper and salt, and a little 
parsley chopped fine ; add flour, and when boiling pour 
over the sweet breads ; add mushrooms, if desired. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 103 

SWEET BREADS— BROILED. 

Mrs. Bates. 

Parboil, rub them well with butter, and broil on a clean 
gridiron ; turn them often, and now and then roll tht!m 
over in a plate containing hot melted butter, to prevent 
them from getting hard and dry. 

CALF'S LIVER— FRIED. 

Cut in thin slices ; wash and drain them, roll them in 
corn meal or cracked crumbs, and fry in fresh or salt 
pork gravy or butter. 

CALF'S LIVER— STEWED. 

Boil till partly done ; take out of the sauce-pan ; chop 
in small pieces ; put back in the sauce-pan ; skir -ell ; 
stew until tender ; season with butter, pepper and salt ; 
thicken with a little flour, and serve over slices of toasted 
bread. 

CALF'S LIVER— MARINE. 

Mrs. J. M. Ayer. 

Lard the liver; add pepper and salt sufficient to 
season it, then roll and tie it ; cut two onions in thin 
slices and lay in the bottom of an earthen crock ; add 
two slices of salt pork cut thin, and lay the liver on 
that ; add more pepper and salt, a little vinegar and 
salad oil, and set in a cool place for twenty- four hours. 
Cook over a slow lire from half-past two until six; a 
wine-glass of claret added at half-past four is excellent. 



104 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



This is arranged for dinner at niglit ; of course the rule 
for time will do for noon dinner. Easily mistaken for 
canvas-back duck. 

TO llOAST VENISON. 

Mrs. Porter. 

Wash a saddle of venison thoroughly in several 
waters, then rub it over with vinegar, red pepper, and a 
little salt ; lard with strips of salt pork rolled in seasoned 
bread crumbs ; season if you like, with sweet marjoram 
and sweet basil, one teaspoon each, also pepper ; then 
rub the whole with currant jelly, and pour over it 
one bottle of claret wine. Let it stand all night, and 
next morning cover the venison with a paste made of 
flour and water half an inch thick ; then cover with 
soft paper, and secure well with strings ; place it in the 
dripping-pan with some claret, butter, and water, and 
baste very often ; half an hour before you take it up, 
remove paste and paper, baste it with butter and dredge 
with flour to make it brown. 

Fob Sauce. — Take a pound and a half of scraps of 
venison, with three pints of water, a few cloves, a few 
blades of mace, one-half a nutmeg, and salt and cayenne 
pepper to taste ; boil it down to a pint, skim oft" the fat 
and strain ; add half a pint of currant jelly, one pint of 
claret and one-cjuarter pound of butter, divided into bits 
and rolled in flour. 

TO COOK SLICED HAM (VERY NICE). 

Madame E. Ternet. 

Cut raw ham in slices, soak in scalding water half an 
hour, lay your slices in a frying pan, pepper each, and 



. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



105 



lay on each slice a little made mustard ; pour in half a 
teaspoonful of vinegar to each sline ; fry quickly, turn 
often. When done take out, serv a a dish ; add to 
the gravy a spoonful of wine, (if y- i have any handy), 
and a teaspoonful of sugar. Boil tip once ; pour over 
your ham, and serve. 

OXFORD SAUSAGE. 

M. A. Sadler. 

Take one pound of young pork, fat and lean, without 
skin or gristle, one pound of lean veal, one pound of 
beef suet chopped very fine together. Put in half a 
pound of bread crumbs, six sage leaves, a teaspoon of 
pepper and two of salt, some thyme, marjoram and 
savoury shred fine. Mix well together. 



SAUSAGES. 

Mrs. C. Bradley and others. 

Six pounds of lean fresh pork, twelve teaspoons of 
sage, and six teaspoons of pepper, six teaspoons of salt, 
(and two of cloves, and one nutmeg, if you prefer), 
grind or chop very fine ; mix these ingredients thor- 
oughly, and pack in a jar, and pour hot lard over the 
top. 

HAM SANDWICHES. 

Mrs. W. Butterfield. 
V/iiup liuc nuliiu v;uiu uuiicu. liaui, a iitlic itii/ witii luQ 

lean ; add tongue and chicken also chopped fine j make 

8 



106 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



^l 



a dressing of one half a pound of butter, three table- 
spoons of salad oil, three of mustard, the yolk of one 
egg, and a little salt ; mix well together and spread over 
the meat smoothly on thin slices of bread. Very nice. 

TRAVELLING LUNCH. 

Mrs. J. L. B. 

Chop sardines, ham, and a few pickles quite fine ; mix 
with mustard, pepper, catsup, salt, and vinegar ; spread 
between broad nicely buttered. This is to be cut cross- 
wise, like jelly cake. 

BAKED HAM. 

Mrs. W. G. Davis. 

Most persons boil ham. It is much better baked, 
if baked right. Soak it for an hour in clean water and 
wipe it dry, next spread it all over with thin batter, and 
then put it into a deep dish with sticks under it to keep 
it out of the gravy. When it is fully done and the 
batter crusted on the flesh side, take off the skin and set 
it away to cool. 

BOILED HAM, 

Mrs. C. Waggoner. 

Take a ham weighing about eight or ten pounds ; soak 
it for twelv o or twenty-four hours in cold water ; then 
cover it with boiling water, add one pint of vinegar, two 
or three bay-leaves, a little bunch of thyme and parsley, 
(the dried and sifted will do, or even the seeds of parsley 
may be used, if the fresh cannot be procured) ; boil very 



t 



i«* 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



107 



slowly two hours and a half, take it out, skim it, remove 
all the fat, except a layer half an inch thick ; cut off with 
a sharp knife all the hlack-looking outside ; put the ham 
into your dripping pan, fat side uppermost, grate bread 
crust over it and sprinkle a teaspoon of powdered sugar 
over it ; put it in the oven for half an hour, until it is a 
beautiful brown. Eat cold; cut the nicest portion in 
slices; the ragged parts and odds and ends can be 
chopped fine and used for sandwiches; or, by adding 
three eggs to one pint of chopped ham, and frying brown, 
you have a delicious omelet for breakfast or lunch. The 
bones should be put in a soup-kettle, the rind and fat 
should be rendered and strained for frying potatoes and 
crullers. Ham cooked in this way will go much farther 
than when cooked in the ordinary manner. 

BOILED AND BAKED KAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil your ham tender ; cover it with the white of a raw 
egg, and sprinkle sugar or bread crumbs over it ; put it 
in the oven and brown ; it is delicious also covered with 
a regular cake icing and browned. 

TO BOIL A HAM. 

M. 

Wash and scrape the ham clean; put it on in cold 
water enough to cover it : put into the water two onions, 
two carrots, a head of celery, a dozen cloves and a hand- 
ful of timothy hay ; boil without stopping until the skin 
will readily peel from the ham ; cover the ham with rolled 



\ 






108 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



crackers, or bread crumbs that have been browned and 
rolled, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. 

SALTING PORK. 

A. M. G. 

Cover the bottom of the barrel with salt an inch deep ; 
put down one layer of pork and cover that with salt half 
an inch thick ; continue this until all your pork is disposed 
of; then cover the whole with strong brine; pack as 
tight as possible, the rind side down or next to the barrel; 
kJep the pork always under the brine by using an inner 
cover and clean stones. Should any scum arise, pour 
off the brine, scald it, and add more salt. Old brine can 
be boiled down, well skimmed, and used for a fresh supply. 

CURING HAMS. 

Mrs. Mulford. 

Hang up the hams a week or ten days, the longer the 
tenderer and better, if kept perfectly sweet; mix for 
each good-sized ham, one teacup of salt, one tablespoon 
of molasses, one ounce of salt-petre ; lay the hams in a 
clean dry tub ; heat the mixture and rub well into the 
hams, especially around the bones and recesses ; repeat 
the process once or twice, or until all the mixture is 
used ; then let the hams lie two or three days, when 
they must be put for three weeks in l)rine strong enough 
to bear an egg ; then soak eight hours in cold water ; 
hang up to dry in the kitchen or other more convenient 
place for a week or more ; smoke from three to five 
days, being careful not to heat the hams. Corn cobs 



and 
are 
up ( 



SI 



S1Z( 



^»*" 



If 



VALUABLE KECIPES. 



109 



and apple-tree wood are good for smoking. The juices 
are better retained if smoked with the hock down. Tie 
up carefully in bags for the summer. 



SALADS, SAUCES, AND PICKLES. 



I 



•• To make this condiment, your poet begs 
The powdered yellow of two hard-boiled eggs ; 
Two boiled potatoes, passed through the kitchen sieve, 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give ; 
Let onions atoms lurk within the bowl, 
And, half suspected, animate the whole ; 
Of mordant mustard, add a single spoon ; 
Distrust the condiment that bites so soon ; 
But, deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault 
To add a double quantity of salt ; 
Four times the spoon with oil from Lucca crown, 
And twice with vinegar, procured from town ; 
And lastly, o'er the flavoured compound toss 
A magic soupcofi of anchovy sauce. 
0, green and glorious ! 0, herbaceous treat ! 
'Twould tempt the dying auchoruc to eat ; 
Back to tlie world he'd turn his fleeting soul, 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl ; 
Serenely full, the epicure would say, 
' Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day.' " 

— SiDNKY Smith. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Morgan. 

Cut the white meat of chickens into small bits, the 
size of peas, (also the dark meat, if you like), chop the 



110 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Plii ., 



whole parts of celery nearly as small. Preimre a dress- 
ing thus : Buh the yolks of hard boiled eggs smooth ; to 
each yolk put half a teaspoon of mustard, the same 
quantity of salt, a tal'lespoon of oil, and a wine glass of 
vinegar ; mix the chicken and celery in a large bowl and 
pour over this dressing with a little cream added. The 
dressing must not be put on till just before it is served. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Higgins. 

Two chickens, chopped coarse ; eight heads of celery, 
three eggs, one pint vinegar, one tablespoon Hour, one 
tablespoon sugar, rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine 
powder, then add the salt, mustard, and oil, mixing well 
together ; then add the cream ; and after that the 
vinegar and raw egg. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Hobbs. 

Three chickens chopped hne, both light and dark 
meat ; the juice of two lemons ; eight or ten eggs boiled 
hard ; the whites chopped fine and the yolks mashed 
tine, moisten with six teaspoons melted butter, two of 
sweet oil ; to which add one tablespoon of mustard, one 
of pepper, one of salt, one of sugar, three of cream ; and 
last, add six large bunches of celery chopped tine, with 
sutticient vinegar to moisten the whole. 

FRENCH POTATO SALAD. 

Slice some cold boiled potatoes into a salad bowl, 
sprinkle over them some parsley and a small quantity 



» 



VALUi^BLE RECIPE8. 



Ill 



1 
« 



of onions cut very fine, and then pour over a sauce made 
of the followmg ingredients : mustard, pepper, and salt, 
and a small quantity of vinegar, rub well together be- 
fore pouring in some fine olive oil, whip all till the sauce 
looks creamy. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mary Norton. 

Take the breasts of four well boiled chickens, cut in 

small pieces, but not too fine ; mix with the chicken 

eight teacups of celery cut also in small pieces, and, with 

the above, the chopped whites of twelve hard-boiled 

eggs. For dressing, the yolks of four raw eggs ; beat 

into them half of an ordinary sized l)ottle of olive oil, 

beginning with a teaspoon, and adding no more than 

that at a time, until it is thoroughly mixed ; then add 

the well-mashed and pulverized yolks of twelve eggs, 

salt and pepper, three tablespoons mustard, a pinch 

of cayenne pepper, and a gill of vinegar ; then stir this 

dressing thoroughly into the mixed chicken celery and 

whites ot eggs. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Mrs. Parmelee. 

Boil one chicken tender, then take the meat and chop 
up, take two tablespoons of mustard, 3 eggs boiled hard, 
chop the whites with the chickens, the yolks rub up fine 
with the mustard, one tablespoon of salt, three table- 
spoons melted butter, one tablespoon black pepper, 
vinegar enough to moisten it, chop three heads of celery 
to one chicken, mix all together and serve. 




112 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR CABBAGE OR LETTUCE. 

Mrs. Parmelee. 

Three egga, two teaspoons black pepper, one teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon mustard, three of melted butter, 
six teaspoons sweet cream, one coffee cup of vinegar ; 
put all together, on stove, and cook till it looks £ looth 
like cream, stirring all the time to keep from burning ; 
then, when cold, put over cabbage chopped fine. 



( 



6' , ■ 



I! 



SALAD. 

Miss Ada Ring. 

Two eggs boiled hard, one teaspoon mustard, two 
tablespoons vinegar, one cup milk, two heads celery, 
and one-half cup sugar. 

FISH SALAD. 

M. A. T 

Boil tender a white-fish or trout ; chop fine ; add 
same quantity chopped celery, cabbage or lettuce ; sea- 
son same as chicken salad. 

VEGETABLE SALAD. 

Anonymous, 

Take cold vegetables left from dinner, such as pota- 
toes, peas, string beans, shell beans, beets, etc., and chill 
them on the ice ; cover with mayonaise, and serve. 
You may use for this any salad dressing. 



.V 



< 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

POTATO SALAD. 



113 



M. / T. 

Sliced cold boiled potatoes; almonds blanched and 
quartered ; hickory nuts, also, if liked (both of these 
may be omitted). A very small quantity of chopped 
onions ; pour over this any good salad dressing, not too 
much, and garnish with chopped parsley ; cold boiled 
bee is, sliced lemon, and anchovies, may be added to the 
salad, if liked. 

ASPARAGUS SALAD. 

Boil the asparagus in water until tender; cut off 
the hard ends, and set the rest away. When cool, cut 
in inch long pieces, and put it in your salad dish. Pour 
over a mayonaise dressing, and garnish with a few 
capers. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Mrs. King. 

Take a doi^en ripe " white spine" cucumbers ; wash, 
pare, and cut into strips, taking out the seeds ; cut into 
pieces, like small dice ; to each dozen cucumbers take 
twelve large white onions chopped ; six large green pep- 
pers, also chopped ; one-quarter pound each of black 
and white mustard seed, and a gill of celery seed; mix 
all well together ; add a teacup of salt, and hang up in 
a cotton bag to drain for twenty-four hoiurs. Then add 
enough clear cold vinegar to cover it ; put into stone 
jars and fasten nearly air-tight. In six weeks it will be 
fit for use. Excellent. 






>i 



114 TIIR HOME COOK BOOK. 

CADBA E -^ T.AD. 

Mr. tt'Hi'l. 

First prepare tlii ..,«J>bage b> .' ttiiig it staiitl for Home 
time in cold wh'''V in order to make it crisp ; dry w<"U 
and shave m finely an possible. Choose a firm white 
cabbage. DresHing : Rub together a pu '^e of butter the 
size of a walnut, and on*^ tal»lospoon of Hour; stn- m 
two tablespoons of vinegar, tnd scald for a minute ; :hen 
add the yolk of an egg (beaten) and two tablespoons of 
cream ; salt and pepper to taste. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR CHOPPED CABBAGE OR 

LETTUCE. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Three eggs, two teaspoons black pepper, one teaspoon 
salt, one tablespoon mustard three tablespoons melted 
butter, six teaspoons sweet cream, one coffee-cup of good 
vin' "ar. Put all on the stove and cook until it looks 
liki . ream taking care to stir it all the time. 

DRESSING FOR SALAD. 

Mrs. Hoge. 

Two raw eggs, one tablespoon of butter, eight table- 
spoons of vinegar ; one-half teaspoon of mustard ; put 
in a bowl over boiling water and stir until it becomes 
like cream ; pepper and salt to your taste. 

SAT.AD DRESSING. 

Mrs. A. A. Carpenter. 

The volks of four eggs, two-thirds of a cup of oil, red 



i 
t t 



VALUABLE RECIPrS. 



115 



pepper, salt and mustard to taste, the juice of two 
lemons, and last of all, one cup of thick cream. If the 
dressing is for chicken salad, use the oil or fat I-omthe 
chicken instead of sweet oil. Be sure and put the cream 
in last, just before sending to taule. 



SAUCES FOR MEAT OR FISH. 



red 



DKAWN BUTTER. 

Drawn butter forms the basis of most sauces. From 
this a great variety may be made, by adding to this dif- 
ferent" flavours-anchovies, ochra, onions, celery, par- 
sley, mint, and relishes-using those flavours which 
are suitable for the meat, game, or fish, with which the 
sauces are to be served. A good standard receipt for 
drawn buttei is as follows : 

Rub one tablespoon of flour with one-quarter ot a 
pound of butter ; when well mixed, put in a saucepan 
with a tablespoon-of milk or water ; set it m a dish ot 
boiling water, shaking it well until the butter melts and 
is near boiling. It should not be set directly on the 
stove or over the coals, as the heat will make the butter 
oily and spoil it. 









116 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

AiELTED BUTTEIl OR PARSLEY SAUCE. 

Miss A. C. 

One tablespoon of butter, one te.aspoon of flour, rubbed 
together, one tablespoon chopped parsley, first boiled 
live minutes in water and squeezed out ; two tablespoons 
water; shake over a clear fire, o«t' uw/, until it boils ; 
add the parsley gradually. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. Salter. 

Mix one tablespoon of white sugar to half a teacup of 
good vinegar ; add the mint and let it infuse for half an 
hour in a cool i3lace before sending to the table. Serve 
with roast lamb or mutton. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. B. L. 

Mix two tablespoons of flour with half a teacup of 
butter ; have ready a pint of boiling milk ; stir the flour 
and butter into the milk ; take three heads of celery, cut 
into small bits, and Ijoil for a few minutes in water, 
which strain off; put the celery into the melted butter, 
and keep it stirred over tlie fire for five or ten minutes. 
This is very nice with boiled fowl or turkey. 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Anonymous, 

Cream together a large tablespoon of butter with a 
little flour, and put over a gentle heat; add a little 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



117 



chopped parsley, a little grated onion, pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg ; when these ingredients are well mixed, add half 
a pint of cream or milk and let it boil for fifteen minutes. 
If used with fresh fish, a little horse radish may be 

added. _„ 

EGG SAUCE. 

Miss Hattie Buck. 

Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard ; mash them 
with a teaspoon of mustard, a little pepper and salt, 
three tablespoons of vinegar, and three of salad oil. A 
tablespoon of catsup improves this for some. Nice for 

boiled fish. ^ 

EGG SAUCE. 

Mrs. C. Helforcl. 

Prepare drawn butter, and to this add three or four 
hard-boiled eggs sUced or chopped. 

FISH SAUCE. 

One-quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; one tablespoon 
of finely chopped parsley, a little salt and pepper and the 
juice of two lemons. Cream the butter ; mix all well 
together, adding at the least a teaspoon of mayonaise. 
Less lemon juice may be used if preferred. 

WHITE SAUCE FOR FOWLS. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Take half a pint of cream, and put some flour and 
butter mixed together to thicken it, some nutmeg grated, 

^_ ^„, — « cY>A anrna nvst.PT Of cucumbcr catsup — 

cayuiiiit; pcppci, ttii-i i-i-.i.t^ -^. i • i " 

or a little of both ; stir it over the fire till it thickens. 



"t^ 






i LI 



"!' f.l 



118 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GOVERNOE'S SAUCE. 

Mrs. Midgley. 

Slice a peck of green tomatoes, sprinkle salt over 
them, say about a cupful, and let them stand one night ; 
in the morning pour off the liquor, and put them in a 
kettle with vinegar enough to cover them, add six green 
or red peppers, (moderate size), four large onions 
chopped fine, one cup of brown sugar, one cup of scraped 
horse-radish, a tablespoonful of cloves, onr of allspice, 
a teaspoonful of cayenne, one of white pepper ; let it 
simmer till soft, put into jars and always keep it air 
tight. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

Mrs. C. S. Horseman. 

Thirty-six ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, two 
onions chopped fine, two cups of sugar, two tablespoons 
of salt, two teaspoons of ground cloves, two teaspoons 
of mustard, two teaspoons of cinnamon, two cups of 
vinegar, and boil half a day. 

TOMATO CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. Baud. 

Nine ripe tomatoes, peeled and cut small, red peppers • 
and one onion chopped fine, one teacup vinegar, two 
tablespoona brown sugar, one tablespoon salt, one tea- ' 
spoon ginger, one of cloves, one of allspice, vinegar in ,' 
last ; stew one hour. ' 



X 



VALUABLE EECIPEB. 



119 



ppers ' 
, two 

3 tea- * 



GOVERNOR'S SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

One peck green tomatoes, four large onions, six red 
peppers, one teacup grated horse-radish, one teaspoon 
cayenne and one of hkick pepper, one teaspoon mus- 
tard, half cup sugar ; slice the tomatoes and sprinkle 
one teacup salt on, and lay all night ; drain well in the 
morning, then simmer all together till cooked through. 

SHIRLEY SAUOE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Wash, peel, and slice two dozen ripe tomatoes, four 
large onions, and four green peppers, not too large ; add 
four tablespoons sugar, one pint vinegar ; boil tomatoes 
and onions iirst, strain, then boil all slowly till done. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Twelve large ripe tomatoes, six green peppers, one 
large onion, all chopped fine, one tablespoon salt, one 
teaspoon ginger, one of cinnamon, one of allspice, one 
of cloves, one tablespoon sugar, two cups vinegar ; boil 
thick. 

WINTER SAUCE. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One peck green tomatoes chopped fine, two dozen large 

onions peeled and chopped, one dozen green or red pep- 

' pers chopped fine ; salt, pepper, and spice to suit taste ; 



120 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



one cup brown sugar, vinegar to cover ; pour the vinegar 
over all boiling hot, and bottle for winter use. 

ENGLISH SAUCE. 

Mrs. Suider. 

One pound brown sugar, half-pound salt, half-pound 
garlic, half-pound onions, quarter-pound pepper, quarter- 
pound ground ginger, half-pound mustard seed, one 
pound raisins, two pounds apples, half-ounce cayenne, 
two quarts vinegar. The raisins to be chopped, apples 
to be pealed and cut and boiled in one pint of the vinegar; 
garlic and onions must be chopped tine and well bruised ; 
the sugar made into a syrup with one pint of the vinegar. 
When the apples are cool, mix the whole, including the 
remainder of the vinegar ; blend well together and jar. 

TOMATO MUSTAED. 

M. R. Board. 

One peck of ripe tomatoes ; boil with two onions, six 
red peppers, four cloves of garlic, for one hour ; then add 
a half-pint or half-pound salt, three tablespoons black 
pepper, half-ounce ginger, half-ounce allspice, half- 
ounce mace, half-ounce cloves ; then boil again for 
one hour longer, and when cold add one pint of vinegar 
and a quarter-pound of mustard ; and if you like it very 
hot, a tablespoonful of cayenne. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Mrs. E. H. Deuuison. 

To nine large ripe tomatoes and three green peppers, 



1 



VALtJABLE RECIPES. 



121 



add one onion chopped fine, two cups of vinegar, two 
tablespoons of sugar, and one of salt ; steam one hour, 
then add one teaspoon of ginger, one of allspice, and one 
of cloves. 

HOKSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Two teaspoons of made mustard, two of white sugar, 
half a teaspoon of salt, and a gill of vinegar ; mix and 
pour over grated horse-radish. Excellent with beef. 

MADE MUSTARD. 

Pour a very little boiling water over three tablespoons 
of mustard ; add one saltspoon of salt, a tablespoon of 
olive oil, stirred slowly in, and one teaspoon of sugar ; 
add the yolk of an egg, beaten well, and pour in vinegar 
to taste. It is best eaten next day. 

CELEEY VINEGAR. 

Soak one ounce of celery seed in half a pint of vinegar; 
bottle it and use to flavour soups and gravies, 

SPICED CURRi^NTS. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Six pounds currants or gooseberries, five pounds 
sugar, half a pint of vinegar ; spices, cloves, and cinna- 
mon. Boil till thick. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Five pints vinegar, four pounds green gooseberries, 

V 



't 



30' 






122 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



one-half pound brown sugar, one-half pound raisins, 
one-quarter pound currants, one-quarter pound common 
salt, two ounces mustard, two ounces onions, one-half 
ounce chilies, one-half ounce allspice, one-half ounce 
ground ginger, one-half ounce ground mace, one-half 
ounce turmeric, one nutmeg. Boil the vinegar, currants, 
raisins, onions, gooseherries, and chilies till quite soft, 
then pour through a fine sieve on the remaining ingre- 
dients. 

FRENCH PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Beat four ounces butter to a cream ; stir in one- 
quarter ounce brown sugar; add the yolk of one egg 
and one gill of wine ; put it on the stove, stirring all 
the time till it simmers. Grate nutmeg over it before 
sending it to table. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Boil the tomatoes until quite soft, and rub them well 
through a sieve ; to every quart add two ounces shalots 
and large red peppers, or one teaspoonful cayenne pep- 
per, one ounce bruised ginger, one spoonful salt, a few 
cloves ; boil until reduced one-third ; ten minutes before 
taking off the fire add a half-pint vinegar to each 
quart. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. George Simpson. 

Take a bushel of nice ripe tomatoes, and split, and 



li 



iy 



VALUABLE KECIPES. 



123 



h 



sprinkle with salt, and lay twenty-four hours ; mash 
them up and run through a sieve so as to waste nothin- 
but seed and skin, and season to taste with red ])e')per 
and cloves ; ].oil until it begins to settle at the bottoni of 
the kettle, then add one quart of vinegar, then bottle 
and seal up tight. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 

Mrs. Spence. 

Boil one peck tomatoes for one hour with six red 
peppers, strain through a colander, and add a' half 
pound salt, three tablespoons of black pepper ground 
one ounce ginger ground, one ounce allspice round' 
half ounce cloves ground, two onions ; boil for another 
hour, then add quarter pound mustard and half pint of 
vniegar, then bottle. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Mrs. J. B. Adams, Mrs. Henry Stevens, aud Mvh. R. Harris. 

Eight pounds of ripe or partially ripe fruit, four 
pounds brown sugar, one pint of good vinegar, two ounces 
each hne cloves and cinnamon tied in a bag.- boil the 
berries and sugar for three or four hours, then add 
spice ; boil a little more ; put in a jar and cover well. 
Will keep two years by occasionally scalding and add- 
ing a httle vinegar and spice. 



SWEET PICKLES. 



I'i 



PICKLED CHERIIIES. 

Five pounds of cherries, stoned or not; one quart of 
vinegar, two pounds of sugar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce of cloves, one-half ounce of mace ; 
boil the sugar and vinegar and spices together, (grind 
the spices and tie them in a muslin bag), and pour hot 
over the cherries. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Mrs. Meek. 

To seven pounds plums, four pounds sugar, two 
ounces stick cinnamon, two ounces cloves, one quart 
vinegar, add a little mace ; put in the jar first a layer of 
plums, then a layer of spices alternately; scald the vine- 
gar and sugar together, pour it over the plums ; repeat 
three times for plums, (only once for cut apples and 
pears), the fourth time scald all together ; put them into 
glass jars and they are ready for use. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

Mrs. Watson. 

For one peck of sweet apples take three pounds of 
sugar, tw^o quarts of vinegar, one-half ounce of cinna- 
mon, one-half ounce cloves ; pare the apples, leaving 
them whole ; boil them in part of the vinegar aild sugar 



i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



125 



until you can put a fork through them ; take thorn out ; 
heat the remainder of vinegar and sugar and pour over 
them. Be careful not to hoil them too long or they will 
break. 

SPICED CUERANTS TO BE EATEN WITH MEATS. 

Mrs. Carsou. 

Four quarts currants, one pint of vinegar, three 
pounds sugar, one tablespoon cinnamon, one of allspice, 
one of cloves, one of nutmeg ; cook one hour ; keep in cool 
place, tightly covered. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

Mrs. C. D. Howard. 

Take five pounds of brown sugar to one gallon of pure 
cider vinegar ; boil it hard for thirty minutes, skimming 
oif the scum till clear ; rub off the peaches in the mean- 
time out of boiling water (quickly) with a flannel cloth, 
sticking four cloves in each peach ; and put a bag of cin- 
namon into the boiling syrup. If the peaches are 
'"ngstones, put them into the boiling syrup for fifteen 
oi twenty minutes ; if freestones, lay them in the jar in 
layers, and pour the syrup over them while hot ; then 
put a small plate over to keep them from rising, and 
cover tightly with cloth or paper. In four days look at 
them, and if necessary, boil the syrup again, "and pour 
on while hot; keep them in a cool place while the 
weather is hot to prevent their souring. The White 
Sugar Cling is nice for pickling, .and the Blood Peach is 
very rich, but dark. Small pears can be pickled in the 
same manner, if the skin is taken ofif. 



SOUR PICKLES. 

" Who pepperi'd the liighest was surest to please." 

PREPARED MUSTARD. 

C. I). Adams. 

Two tablespoons mustiird, one teaspoon sugar, one- 
half teaspoon salt, boiling water enough to mix it ; when 
cold, add one tablespoon salad oil and vinegar enough 
to thin it. This will keep a week or two. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLE. 

Mrs. Joseph Saulter. 

Cut half-peck of green tomatoes and six large onions 
into thin sHces ; let them remain in salt and water over 
night ; then pour off the brine and put them in a preserv- 
ing kettle with four tablespoonsful of sugar, four of the 
best mustard, two teaspoonsful of ground cloves, two of 
cinnamon, one of cayenne pepper, and one of curry 
powder, and let them simmer for one hour ; then put 
them in stone or glass jars. 

GREEN TOMATO PICKLES. 

Mrs. Spence. 

Slice one peck of tomatoes into ajar, sprinkle a little 
salt over each layer ; let them stand twenty-four hours, 
drain off the liquor ; put the tomatoes into a kettle with 
a teaspoonful of each of the following spices : ground 



1 



I 






II 



It 



ft 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



127 



I 



i 



ginger, allspice, cloves, mace, cinnamon, a teaspoonful 
of scraped horse-radish, twelve small or three large red 
peppers, three onions, a cup full of brown sugar ; cover 
all with vinegar ; boil slowly for three hours. 

Neither add to nor take from any of the ingredients or 
quantities given in the recipe, as it is perfect. 

OUDE SAUCE. 

C. Kennicott. 

One pint green tomatoes, six peppers (not large) ; four 
onions, chop together ; add one cup salt, and let it stand 
over night ; in the morning, drain ofif the water ; add one 
cup sugar, one cup horse-radish, one tablespoon ground 
cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, cover with vinegar, 
had stew gently all day. 

MY MOTHEE'S FAVOURITE PICKLES. 

Mrs. Savage. 

One quart raw cabbage chopped fine ; one quart boiled 
beets chopped fine ; two cups of sugar, tablespoon of 
salt, one teaspoon black popper, one-fourth teaspoon red 
pex)per, one teacup of grated horse-radish ; cover with 
cold vinegar, and keep from the air. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

Three hundred small cucumbers, four green peppers 
sliced fine, two large or three small heads cauliflower, 
three heads of white cabbage shaved fine, nine large 
onions sliced, one large root horse-radish, one quart of 



1 



M 



/! 



II 



Iffl 



s }J 



128 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



green beans cut one inch long, one quart green tomatoes 
sliced ; put this mixture in a pretty strong brine twenty- 
four hours; drain three hours, then sprinkle in one- 
fourth pound black and one-fourth pound of white mustard 
seed ; also one tablespoon black ground pepper ; let it 
come to a good boil in just vinegar enough to cover it, 
adding a little alum. Drain again, and when cold, mix 
in one-half pint of ground mustard ; cover the whole 
with good cider vinegar ; add turmeric enough to colour, 
if you like. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Select solid heads, slice very fine, put in a jar, then 
cover with boiling water ; when cold, drain off the water, 
and season with grated horse-radish, salt, equal parts 
of black and red pepper, cinnamon, and cloves whole ; 
cover with strong vinegar. This is convenient and 
always good. 

INDIA PP-'KLE, 

Mrs. George Simpson. 

Take three quarts vinegar, quarter pound mustard, 
half ounce ])lack pepper, one ounce cloves, one ounce all- 
spice, one ounce turmeric, one ounce ginger, one ounce 
cayenne pepper, handfull salt, same of sugar; boil 
for twenty minutes. When cold put in the vegetables 
and cover closely; if the liquid should become thin, boil 
again and add more mustard in three week? after 
making. 



i 






i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

TOMATO MUSTARD. 



129 



Mrs. George Sinipson. 

Slice and boil for an hour, with six small red peppers, 
half hushel of ripe tomatoes stram through a colander 
and boil for an hour, with two tablespoonsful of black 
pepper, two ounces ginger, one ounce allspice, half 
ounce cloves, one-eighth ounce mace, quarter pound 
salt. When cold add two ounces mustard, two ounces 
currie powder, and one pint of vinegar. 

PICKLED CAULIFLOWER. 

After cutting off all the g.gen leaves, put the cauli- 
flower into boiling water, with a good supply of salt, 
and boil from three to five minutes ; take them out of 
the salt and water, dip them in clear cold water one 
minute, to send the heat to the heart of the cauliflower, 
cut them in pieces convenient to put in jars, then make 
a mixture of one tablespoon of mace, one of cloves, one 
of allspice, one of ginger, two of white mustard seed, 
and a red popper pod ; with each a gallon of vinegar. 
Let the mixture boil and pour it upon the cauliflower ; 
cover it closely and let it stand one week, then 
pour off the vinegar, scald it, and return it hot again to 
the cauliflower ; then put it in jars ready for use. 
The best cfder vinegar should be used, and if it is not 
perfectly clear it will dissolve the cauhflower. 

PICKLES. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Slice one peck green tomatoes, and one quart small 



130 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



white onions, each in a separate dish, with a small tea- 
cup of salt on them ; to stand over night. Drain well, 
then take two quarts vinegar, one pound brown sugar, a 
few pepper pods, capsicums, some mace and ginger root, 
and put all together and simmer until tender. A very 
nice pickle. 



N'l 



ANOTHER GOOD PICKLE. 

Two quarts small cucumbers, one quart small onions, 
two small cauliflowers, one quart beans ; let them lie 
over-night, with a small teacup of salt in a gallon of 
water ; in the morning put them on the stove and let 
them come to a scald, then take out and let them cool. 
To two quarts of vinegar put one ounce of curry powder, 
one ounce turmeric, one ounce ground ginger, two 
ounces mustard, one teaspoon cayenne pepper, two or 
three tablespoons salad oil ; mix all together, and let it 
just come to a boil and pour over the vegetables. 

FRENCH TOMATO PICKLE. 

One peck green tomatoes, six. onions nicely sliced ; 
sprinkle one teacup salt over and stand all night ; then 
drain well and scald in weak vinegar ten or fifteen 
minutes; drain again and scald with two quarts strong 
vinegar, one pound sugar, two tablespoons curry pow- 
der, two tablespoons turmeric, two teaspoons cinnamon, 
two teaspoons cloves, two teaspoons allspice, two tea- 
spoons mustard ; simmer all together slowly a few 
minutes. It is a beautiful rich pickle. 



mi 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



133 



pound mustard, a tablespoonful of red peppers, and a 
half pint vinegar. Peel the tomatoes, and boil an hour 
with six red peppers : then add the other spices (ex- 
cepting the mustard and vinegar, which are added after 
the sauce is strained through a colander and cooled), 
and boil another hour. 

WORCESTER SAUCE. 

Mrs T. B. Riley. 

One ounce cayenne pepper, one quart vinegar, two 
tablespoonsful soy, three cloves garlic pounded, three 
cloves shalots pounded, five anchovies bruised fine. 
The whole to be well mixed and rubbed through a 
sieve. Keep for ten days corked up, and then bottle for 
use. Strain or not as preferred. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. T. B. Riley. 

Take one bushel of ripe tomatoes, boil them until they 
are soft, squeeze them through a fine wire sieve, and 
add half a gallon of vinegar, one pint of salt, two ounces 
of cloves, a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces 
cayenne pepper, three tablespoonsful of ground peppers, 
five heads of garlic (skinned and separated). Mix 
together and boil three hours, or until reduced to about 
one half. Bottle without straining. 

HORSE-RADISH SAUCE. 

Grate very tine a stick of horse-radish ; with two 
tablespoons of it mix a teaspoonful of salt and four 






134 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



.» i 



I I 




tablespoons of cream ; stir briskly and add by degrees a 
wineglass of vinegar. 

TOMATO MUSTAliD. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One peck of tomatoes, one teacnpful of salt ; boil in a 
preserving pan half an hour; pulp it through a colander 
and return to kettle with the following : one dessert 
spoon of cloves, (ground spices), one of allspice, one of 
black pepper, one of ginger, one of cayenne, a little -ar- 
ic, some onions, and a little curry powder. Le"t it 
boil down considerably, then strain through a sieve and 
add flour of mustard, until the proper thickness is ob- 
tained, and simmer for a short time ; then bottle for 
use. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One bushel of good ripe tomatoes, one-half gallon of 
good vinegar, also fresh ground spices, quarter pound 
allspice, two ounces cloves, three tablespoons black pep- 
per, SIX large onions or two heads garlic, one pint and 
a half of salt, four large red peppers ; boil for a length 
of time, and strain through a sieve, and add the vine^^ar 
iast; boil until it is thick enough. 

EAST INDIA PICKLES. 

Mrs. Ellas. 

One h.alf peck sliced green tomatoes, one half peck 
Bhced white onions, twenty-five small cucun.bers, two 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



135 



cauliflowers cut in small branches ; sprinkle sail over 
these plentifully and let stand twenty-four hours, and 
then drain well ; mix half a cup of grated horse-radish 
root with half an ounce of turmeric, (get at drug store), 
half an ounce of each of ground cinnamon and cloves, 
one ounce of ground popper, one pint of ground mustard 
seed, one pint of brown sugar, two bunches of chopped 
celery. Put this mixture into a porcelain kettle in lay- 
ers with the vegetables. Cover with cold cider vinegar, 
and boil slowly for two hours. The turmeric gives the 
pickles the yellow colour peculiar to East India pickles, 
and in taste and appearance they cannot be distin- 
guished from the genuine. 

MRS. ELLAS' CHOW CHOW. 

Two quarts tomatoes, two white onions, half dozen 
green peppers, one dozen cucumbers, two heads of cab- 
bage, all chopped fine ; let thin stand over night ; 
sprinkle a teacup of salt in it. In the morni.ig drain 
off the brine, and season with one tablespoonful celery 
seed, one ounce turmeric, half teaspoon cayenne pepper, 
one cup brown sugar, one ounce cinnamon, one ounce 
allspice, one ounce black pepper, one quarter ounce 
cloves, vinci^ar enough to cover, and boil two hours. 

DEAWN BUTTEE, OE MELTED BUTTEE. 

Miss Beaty. 

Eub in two teaspoonsful of flour into a quarter of a 
pound of butter ; add five tablespoonsful of cold water ; 
set it into boiling water and let it melt, and heat until 
it begins to simmer, and it is done. Never simmer it 



5 



w 



11, 111 W" ' I H ■' 



136 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 







on coals, as it fries the oil and spoils it. Be careful not 
to have the flour in lumps. If it is to be used, with fish, 
put in chopped eggs and nasturtium, or capers. If 
used with boiled fowl, put in oysters while it is simmer- 
ing, and let them heat through. 

BUENT BUTTER FOR FISH OR EGGS. 

Miaa Beaty. 

Heat two ounces of butter in a frying-pan till a dark 
brown, then add a teaspoonful of vinegar, half a tea- 
spoonful of salt, and half a dozen shakes from the 
pepper-box. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Miss Beaty. 

Pour boiling water on the tomatoes; let them stand 
until you can rub off the skin, then cover them with 
salt and let thcui stand twenty-four hours. Then strain 
them, and to two quarts put three ounces of cloves, two 
ounces of pepper and two nutmegs. Boil half an hour, 
then add a pint of wine. 

CURRIED DISHES. 

Miss Beaty. 

Chickens pnd veal are most suitable for curries. Boil 
the meat till tender, and separate the joints. Put a 
little butter in a stew-pan with the chickens, pour on a 
part of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, enough 
to cover itj and let it stew twenty minutes more Pre- 
pare the curry thus : for four pounds of meat take a 



I 



a'^'^^fr^^'-ga p : %'^ - ' ^HP i S^^ - i gi " ^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



137 



tablespoonful of curry powder, a teacup of boiled rice, 
and a tablespoonful of flour and another of melted but- 
ter, a teacup of the liquor and half a teaspoonful of salt ; 
mix them, and pour them over the meat, and let stew 
ten minutes more. Rice should be boiled for an accom- 
paniment. 

RIPE TOMATO PICKLES. 

MrB. C, M. Dickerman. 

To seven pounds of ripe tomatoes add three pounds 
sugar, one quart vinegar, boil them together fifteen min- 
utes, skim out the tomatoes and boil the syrup a few 
minutes longer. Spice to suit the taste with cloves and 
cinnamon. 

PICCALILLI. 

Mifi. Larakin. 

One peck of green tomatoes ; (if the flavour of onions 
is desired, take eight, but it is very nice without any), 
four green peppers ; slice all, and put in layers, sprinkle 
on one cup of salt, and let them remain over night ; 
in the morning press dry through a sieve, put it in a 
porcelain kettle and cover with vinegar ; add one cup of 
sugar, a tablespoon of each kind of sjnce ; put into a 
muslin bag; stew slowly about an hour, or until the 
tomatoes are as soft as you desire. 

TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS BROWN. 

Miss Brokovski. 

Take the small buttons and rub them very clean with 

10 



I 



t: 



i 



138 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



a flannel, and some vinegar ; then put thcni in a dish 
with a litth^ salt over them to draw the Hquor from them, 
then put them into a kettle to stew very gently in their 
own liquor ; boil them in good vinegar, with mace, cloves, 
and black pepper. 

TOMATOES WHOLE FOR WINTER USE. 

Mrs. J. Sanlter. 

Fill a large stone jar with ripe tomatoes, then add a 
few whole cloves and a little sugar ; cover them well 
with one half coM vinegar and half water ; place a piece 
of flannel over the jar well down into the vinegar, then 
tie down with paper. I have kept tomatoes in this way 
the year round, and can cheerfully recommend them. 
Should mildew collect on the flannel it will not injure 
the tomatoes in the least. 



If: 

1111 



CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs. John Corthell. 

Two heads cabbage, two heads cauliflower, one dozen 
cucumbers, six roots of celery, six peppers, one quart of 
small white onions, two quarts green tomatoes ; cut into 
small pieces, and boil each vegetable separately until 
tender, then strain them. Two gallons of vinegar, one- 
fourth pound of mustard, one-fourth pound of mustard 
seed, one pot of French mustard, one ounce of cloves, 
two ounces of turmeric ; put the vinegar and spices into 
a kettle and let them come to a boil ; mix the vegetables 
and pour over the dressing. 



l^V-.■--::'^*■..'*_^'**■■-•'**".V^•-:li^^l^■^:' 



'ft- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



130 



a dish 
n them, 
11 their 
, cloves, 



5E. 



Ill add a 
era well 
i a piece 
ar, then 
;his way 
d them, 
ft injure 



le dozen 
quart of 
cut into 
ely until 
^ar, one- 
mustard 
f cloves, 
lices into 
igetables 



PICKLED OYSTEES. 

Mrs. Carl HanimonJ. 

Wash the oysters and scald thom in strong salt and 
water ; skim them out and throw into cold water ; scald 
vinegar well and whole pepix'rs ; let it get cold. Put 
the oysters in a stone jar ; make liquor to cover them of 
water they were scalded in, and vinegar. A cup of vin- 
egar to one quart liquor, to be used cold. 

BRINE THAT PRESERVES bCTTER A YEAR. 

Mrs. D. McCrancy. 

To three gallons of ])rine strong enough to hear an 
egg, add one-quarter pound good loaf sugar, and one 
tablespoonful of saltpetre ; boil the brine, and when it is 
cold strain carefully. Pack butter closely in small jars, 
and allow the brine to cover the butter to the d:,pth of 
at least four inches. This completely excludes the air. 
If practicable make your butter into small roles, wrap 
each carefully in a clean muslin cloth, tying up with a 
string ; place a weight over the butter to keep it all sub- 
merged in the brine. This mode is most recommended 
by those who have tried both. 



^' 



•Tt" 



^ 



- y - gfC-W 



.BREAKFAST AND SUPPER. 



" Dinner may bo pleasant; 
So may Hocial tea ; 
But yet, methinks the breakfast 
Ts'best of all the three." 

— Anon. 



RELISHES. 



OYSTEK STEW. 

Mrs. A. H. Ewing. 

strain the juice fromtl.e oystei-s pkeed in the colui- 
der into a stoNV i.au; let it come to a boil ; remove the 
Imandacleav liquor .'ill --'"' '»'■" f f,;™* ^ 
upon the oysters, and rinse thoroughly ; add them to 
he liquor, vith a cup ot cream or milk, butter, Bait, and 
cayenne pepper. Have ready buttered dice-shaped 
^ecroftoart upon a meat dish ; pour the oysters over, 
garnish with parsley, and serve hot. 

TOAST. 

Toast the bread very quickly, dip each slice in boil- 
in- water (a little salt in the water), as soon as you 
h<^.e toasted it; then spread it with butter ; cover and 
keep hot as vou proceed. Make milk toast m the same 




ER. 



) coli.n- 
ove the 
d water 
tbepa to 
salt, and 
i-sliaped 
^rs over, 



in boil- 
i as you 
over and 
;be same 



' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



141 



^ 



r«T^ 






way, keeping the milk at nearly boitmg heat ; it is bet- 
ter to spread the butter on the bread after it is dipped 
in hot milk, than to m.lt it in the milk ; thicken what 
milk is left with a little < n-n starch, and pour over the 
toast when sent to the table. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Helena Smith. 

Beat up six eggs with two ounces of butter, one table- 
spoonful of cream of new milk, a little chopped parsley, 
and salt ; put all in a saucepan, and keep stirring over 
the lire until it begins to thicken, when it should be im- 
mediately dished on buttered tv.ast. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

!*Irs. M. J. Savage. 

To one egg thoroughly beaten, put one cup of sweet 
milk and a little salt. Slice light bread, and dip into 
the mixture, allowing each slice to absorb some of the 
milk ; then brown on a hot buttered griddle ; spread 
with butter and serve hot. 

TONGUE TOAST. 

M. A. P. 

Take cr-ld boiled tongue, mince it fine ; mix it with 
cream or milk, and to every half pint of the mixture, 
allow the well beaten yolks of two eggs ; place over the 
fire and let it simmer a minute or two ; have ready some 
nicely toasted bread ; butter it ; place it on a hot dish 
and pour the mixture over ; send to the table hot. 



^ 



n 



..J 



ci 



142 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON TOAST. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Takf the Yulks of six .--^s, beat them well and add 
three cups of sweet milk ; take baker's bread not too 
stale and cut into slices ; dip them into the milk and 
eggs, and lav the slices into a spider, with sufficient 
merited butter hut to fry a nice delicate brown ; take the 
Avliites of the six eggs, and beat them to a froth, adding 
a large cup of white sugar : add the juice of two lemons, 
heating well, and adding two cups boiling water ; serve 
over the toast as a sauce, and you will find it a very de- 
licious dish. 

FRIED BKEAD IN BATTER. 

M. A. T. 
Take one tablespoon sweet light dough ; dissolve it 
in one cup sweet milk ; add three or four eggs, one and 
a half cups Hour, one teaspoon of salt : cut some tlnn 
slices of light ])read, dip in this batter, and fry m hot 
lard; sprinkle with powdered sugar, and garnish with 

jelly. 

CODFISH BALLS. 

Mrs. Banks. 

Take four cups of mashed potatoes, three cups of 
boiled codtish minced tine, add butter; mix well to- 
gether; then add two well beaten eggs, beatmg it up 
again thoroughly ; drop by spoonsful into hot lard and 
fry the same as doughnuts. Are nice fried in croquette 
baskets. 



^ 



■.fr 



■ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 1'*^ 

CODFISH PUFF. 

Mrs. Banks. 

Rocipe the same a;: for codiisli balls put in an earthen 
baking plate ; smooth over the top. and put over some 
butter, and then in a hot oven to bake. 

CODFISH HASH. 

Mrs. N. r. Wilder. 

One pint boiled picked codfish Avell freshened, one 
quart cold boiled chopped potatoes mixed well together, 
three slices salt pork freshemd, cut in very small pieces 
and fried brown ; remove half the pork, and add your 
fish and potatoes to the remainder ; let it stand and 
steam five minutes without stirring ; be careful not to 
let it burn ; then add one-third cup milk and stir thor- 
oughly ; put the remainder of the pork around the edge 
of 'the spider, and a little butter over it ; simmer it over 
a slow fire for half an hour, until a brown crust is 
formed, when turn it over on a platter and serve. 

BEEF HASH. 

Chop fine cold beef, either boiled or baked; have 
ready cold boiled potatoes ; to one pint of meat put one 
pint and a little more of potatoes, chopped fine ; have 
ready a spider, with a good piece of butter in it ; put in 
the hash ; season with pepper and salt, and then add 
rich milk or cream. Milk is a very great improvement. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 
One and one-half pounds nice corned beef, boiled 



ir^s'^^ispr^ 



^!t»l^l)$- 




i i 



ii 



144 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



teudiT and clioi)i)o.l line ; one-third more potatoes when 
chopped than meat ; three large onions sUced fme and 
hrowned in butter, and Nvhen tender, add the meat and 
potatoes, well seasoned with salt and pepper : enough 
water to moisten. A small red pepper chopped line is i 
great improvement. It is good without onions also. 

BREAKFAST STEAK. 

A nice steak of beef or veal ; pound it with a steak 
mallet, if tough ; lay in a baking tin, dredge it lightly 
with flour, season with salt and pepper, and, if you like, 
a little chopped parsley ; then put in the oven and bake 
for twenty or thirty minutes, or until sufficiently well 
done ; take it up, put it on the platter, spread with but- 
ter, and dredge into the juices of the meat in the baking 
pan a little tiour, and season with butter ; let this boil 
up and pour over the steak. This is very nice. 

SIDE DISH. 

R. A. Sibley. 

Chopped cold meat well seasoned ; wet svith gravy, if 
convenient, put it on a platter ; then take cold rice 
made moist with milk and one egg, season with pepper 
and salt ; if not sufficient rice, add powdered bread 
crumbs ; place this around the platter quite thick ; set 
in oven to heat and brown. 

ANOTHER SIDE DISH. 

11. A. Sibley. 

Cold turkey, chicken or any cold meat, chopped fine, 



fi 



8 

r 
a 

CI 







[l 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



145 



i) 



seasoned Nvitli salt, [.ei.i.er, ami gravy ; lay pie crust 
round the ed^e of the platter, and cover the same ; bake 
a nice brown in the oven. Very little meat makes a 
dish for several persons. 

A NICE BREAKFAST DISH. 

Harriet N. Jenks. 

Mince cold beef or lamb : if beef put in a pinch of pul- 
verized cloves ; if lamb, a pinch of summer savoury to 
season it, very little pepper and some salt, and put it in 
a Inikinj.^ dish': mash potatoes and mix them with cream 
and butt.r and a little salt, and spread them over the 
meat; beat up an eg- with cream or milk, a very little ; 
spread it over the potatoes, and bake it a short time, 
sufficient to Nvarm it through and brown the potatoes. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

S. S. Tierce. 

Take cold roast meat (either beef, veal, or mutton); 
clear it from gristle ; chop fine ; season ^vith pepper and 
salt ; boil and mash some potatoes, and make them into 
a paste Avith one or two eggs ; roll it out with a little 
fiour- cut it romid Avith a saucer; put your seasoned 
meat on one half; fold it over hke a puf^' : ^' 't neatly 
round, and fry it a light brown; Nice breakfast. 

RICE CAKES. 

Mrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

One teacup of soft boiled rice, the yolk of one^egg, a 
pinch of salt, two tabiespoi^ns of sifted fiour, beaten wea 



i 1 



146 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



together ; add sweet milk until it is about the consistency 
of sponge cake or thick cream, and just before baking 
stir in lightly the beaten white of the egg. Tlie less flour 
used the better for invalids. 

VEAL STEW. 

Two pounds of veal steak cut in strips ; put in cold 
water in a skillet or spider and over the fire. The water 
should be just sufficient to cover the meat. Pare, wash 
and slice one sm:)l potato and put in with the meat. 
Stew for twenty or thirty minutes gently, taking care 
that the water does not boil away. Have ready two or 
three eggs boiled in the shell. When the meat is tender 
add to the broth one cup of fresh milk and one heaping 
tablespoon of flour wet with milk; season all with butter, 
salt and pepper, and, if you like, a little parsley. Cut 
the hard boiled eggs in slices and put into the broth. 
Let all boil up once, and serve with or without toast on 
the platter. A very nice breakfast dish. 



TO STEW MUSHROOMS. 

Miss Brokovski. 



Peel them and put them to stew in some milk till 
tender, when sufliciently done, put to them some butter 
and flour mixed together, a little cayenne, and some salt; 
part cream instead of milk will improve them. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Mrs. L. M. Angle. 

Break six or seven eggs into a buttered dish, taking 



/ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



147 



4 



care that each is whole, and does not encroach upon the 
others so much as to mix or disturb the yolks ; sprinkle 
with pepper and salt, and put a bit of butter upon each. 
Put into an oven and bake until the whites are set. 
This is far superior to fried eggs, and very nice for 
breakfast, served on toast or alone. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Break as many eggs as you wish to use, one at a time, 
and drop carefully into a spider tilled with boiling water. 
When the whites of the eggs are well set, slip a spoon 
carefully under and take out, laying each upon a small 
piece of buttered toast on the platter. Put a very small 
piece c. Dutter on each egg, a slight dash of pepper, and 
serve immediately. 

OMELET— (SPLENDID). 

Six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately ; half 
pint milk, six teaspoons corn starch, one teaspoon of 
baking powder, and a little salt ; add the whites, beaten 
to a stiff froth, last; cook in a little butter. 

EGG-OMELET. 

Mrs. Caryou. 

Six eggs beaten separately, half pint sweet milk, six 
teaspoons of corn starch made smooth in a little of the 
milk, one teaspoon baking powder, a little salt ; add the 
whites last, cook in a hot pan with a little butter"; when 
nicob' browned, roll over on hot dish and serve at once. 



' 



'4 



K ' 






148 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



OMELET. 



Mrs. Midgley. 

Six eggs, teacup of milk, pepjier and salt ; beat yolks 
and whites separately ; add pepper and salt with yolks, 
then stir in the milk ; lastly stir in the whites very 
lightly ; have your pan very hot, put a good bit of but- 
ter in your pan, then the mixture. Cook ten minutes, 
put in the oven for three minutes,'slip on a hot plate, 
and eat. 

OMELET. 

Miss E. C. Harris. 

One cup of milk, one tablespoon flour stirred into the 
milk ; four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; 
one-half tablespoon melted butter stirred into the mix- 
ture ; a little salt. Stir in the whites before putting 
into the spider. Cook on top of the stove about ten 
minutes, then set the spider in the oven to brown the 
top. To be eaten as soon as taken from the oven. 
Very nice. 

FRIED OMELET. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 

Three eggs, two gills milk, two tablespoons flour, a 
little salt and pepper, fried on hot griddle. 

FRIAR'S OMELET. 

Mrs. DeForest. 

Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce ; stir in one-fourth 



■pr«t<!«wj««Brt,--fl-»B,«w|»< 



^% ..'■ ?;%t. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



149 



J 



pound of butter, ditto white sugar ; when cold, add four 
well beaten eggs and a few spoons of cream ; put it into 
a baking dish, well buttered, and thickly strewn with 
bread crumbs on the bottom and sides ; strew currants 
over the top. Bake forty-five minutes ; turn on a plat- 
ter, and sift sugar over it. Serve with sugar and cream, 
or a boiled custard ; the latter is much the nicer. 

FRENCH OMELET. 
M. 

One cup boiling milk with one tablespoon of butter 
melted in it ; pour this on one cup of bread crumbs, (the 
bread must be hght) ; add salt, pepper, and the yolks of 
six eggs well beaten ; mix thoroughly; and lastly, add the 
six whites cut to a stiff froth ; mix lightly and fry with 
hot butter ; this will make two ; when almost done, turn 
together in shape of half moon. 

BAKED OMELET. 



Mrs. Ed- 



Pily. 



Six eggs, two tablespoons ui Hour, a little salt, one 
cup of milk ; take a little of the milk, and stir the flour 
into it; add the rest of the milk, and the yolka of the 
eggs; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
and pour into the flour, milk, and yolks ; put a piece of 
butter the size of a small egg into an iron spider, and 
let it get hot, but not so the butter will burn ; then pour 
the mixture in and put in a moderate oven to bake in 
the spider. It takes about ten minutes to bake. Then 
sHd a knife und^r and loosen, and slip off on a large 
plate or platter. 



,-.* 



i I 



I* 



11 



150 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

YEAL OMELET. 

Mrs. J. S. (rauo. 

Three pounds of lean veal, two eg^s, six small butter 
crackers, one tablespoon of tliyme, one of salt, one of 
pepper, two of milk ; knead it like bread, and bake it two 
hours in a slow oven, basting it with butter often, then 
slice for tea. 

CHEESE SCALLOP. 

Soak one cup of dry bread crumbs in fresh milk. Beat 
into this three eggs ; add one tablespoon of butter and 
one-half a pound of grated cheese ; strew upon the top 
sifted bread crumbs, and bake in the oven a delicate 
brown. An excellent relish when eaten with thin sHces 
of bread and butter. 

FISH RELISH. 

After Marion Harland. 

One cup of drawn butter with an egg beaten in, two 
hard boiled eggs, mashed potato (a cup will do), one cup 
of cold fish (cod, halibut, or shad), roe of cod or shad, 
and one teaspoon of butter, one teaspoon of minced 
parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Method : Dry the roe 
previously well boiled ; mince the fish tine and season ; 
wash up the roe with the butter and the yolks of the 
boiled eggs ; cut the white into thin rings ; put a layer of 
mashed potatoes at the bottom of a deep buttered dish ; 
then alternate layers of fish ; drawn butter with the 
rings of the whites imbedded in tliisroe; more potato at 
top; cover and set in the oven until it smokes and 



^ I 



^ r, 



i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



151 



bubbles ; brown by removing the cover a few minutes. 
Send to table in the baking dish, and pass pickles with 

it. 

BliEAKF\ST GETJS. 

Mrs. Brown. 

One cup sweet milk, one and a half cups flour, one 
egg, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon baking powder; 
beaten together five minutes ; bake in hot gem pans in 
a hot oven abort fifteen minutes. 

POTATO CAKE. 

Mrs. S. McMastcr. 

Crush cold boiled potatoes with butter and salt ; mix 
in a small proportion of flour and a little yeast (the 
last may be omitted at pleasure), and with milk work 
the whole to the consistency of very firm dough ; roll it 
out to the thickness of an inch and a half or two inches; 
cut it out the size of your frying pan, previously greased, 
and in it lay your cake after flouring it all over ; bake 
covered with a plate, shake and shift it a little from time 
to time to prevent burning ; when half done turn it, and 
cover with a plate again. 

RICE FRITTERS. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Boil three tablespoonsful of rice until it swells to the 
full size, then drain quite dry and mix with it four eggs 
well beaten, quarter pound of currants and a little 
grated lemjm peel, nutmeg and sugar to the taste ; stir 
in as much flour as will thicken it, and fry in lard. 



i' i 



I 



152 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BREAKFAST BUNS. 

Mrs. J. W. Preston. 

Two cups of flour, three-fourths cup of corn meal, 
three-fourths cup of hutter, one-half cup of sugar, two 
eggs heaten, one cup of milk, three teaspoons baking 
powder ; hake in hot oven twenty minutes. 

QUICK SALLY LUNN. 

One cup of sugar, one-half a cup of butter ; stir well 
together, and then add one or two eggs ; put in one good 
pint of sweet milk, and with sufficient flour to make a 
batter about as stiff as cake ; put in three teaspoons 
of baking powder ; bake and eat hot with butter, for tea 
or breakfast. 

BREAKFAST CAKE. 

Mrs. C. Bradley. 

One pint of flour, three tablespoons of butter, three 
tablespoons of sugar, one egg, one cup sweet milk, one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda ; to be 
eaten with butter. 

RYE CAKES FOR TEA. 

Harriot N. Jenks. 

Two teacups of rye flour, one of wheat flour, ne of 
sour milk, one teaspoon of soda, put in the sour milk, 
and while foaming stir it in the flour and rye, with one- 
half teaspoon of salt, one-half teacup of molasses : make 
it still and turn it into a buttered pan ; p.pread it smooth 
with a spoon dipped in hot water ; bake one-half hour. 



N^ 



^^ 



i 



1 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 153 

JOLLY BOYS. 

Jeannie Bray ton. 

One quart corn meal; scald and cool; one pint of 
flour, two eggs, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, 
a little milk, salt ; make as thick as pancakes, and fry 
in hot lard. Nice for breakfast. 

GRAHAM BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Gibbs. 

Two cups of Graham floar, one cup of wheat flour, 
two eggs well beaten ; mix with sweet milk, to make a very 
thin batter ; bake in gem irons ; have the irons hot, then 
set them on the upper grate in the oven ; will bake in 
fifteen minutes. 

TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. H. P. Stoweli. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, piece of 
butter size of an egg, one teaspoon cream-tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one pint of flour. Eaten warm. 

COTTAGE CHEESE. 

Mrs. Gibbs. 

Pour boiling water on the thick milk in the pan in 
which it has turned, stirring while you pour ; as soon as 
the milk separates from the whey and begins to appear 
cooked, let it settle ; in a minute or two most of the 
water and whey can be poured oil ; if not sufficiently 
11 



154 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 






i 



i 



I 



' 



cooked, mor(^ hot water may be used ; set the pan on 
edge, and with your spoon or hand draw the curd to the 
upper side, pressing out as much water as possible ; if 
desired, it can stand a few moments in cold water; 
when squeezed dry, work the curd fine, rolling it be- 
tween the hands ; add salt and cream to taste ; in very 
warm weather when the milk has turned quickly, it is 
very palatable without the addition of cream. 

WHITE CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Cheeseborougli. 

One pint of meal thoroughly scalded with hard-boil- 
ing water ; butter the size of an egg, and one well- 
beaten egg ; add milk to make it just thin enough to 
flow over the pan. Have the batter an inch thick, and 
then bake. 

YPSILANTI EGG ROLLS. 

Miss Norris. 

Allow one egg for each person, two cups of milk for 
three eggs, four teaspoons of flour ; beat whites and 
yolks separately, and add the eggs last. Put a very 
little of the mixture into a hot frying pan well greased 
with butter ; roll as you would omelet, and put on a 
platter. Send in hot. For breakfast or tea. Can be 
eaten with sugar. 



^ 



r 



1 



VEGETABLES. 



" Witnees, thou best Anana, thou the pride 
Of vegetable life, beyond whaet'er 
The poets imaged in the golden age. 
Quick, let me strip thee of thy tui.y coat, 
Spread thy ambrosial stores, and feast with Jove." 

— Thompson. 

BOILED POTATOES. 

Old potatoes are better for being peeled and put in 
cold water an hour before being put over to boil. They 
should then be put into fresh cold water, when set oyer 
the fire. New potatoes should always be put into boiling 
water, and it is best to prepare them just in time for 
cooking. Are better steamed than boiled. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

Mrs. F. D. J. 

Peel the potatoes, and let them stand in cold water 
for half an hour ; then put in the steamer over boiling 
water and cook them until mealy and quite tender. Have 
ready an earthen basin, or a bright tin pan, into which 
you will put your potatoes, so that while mashing and 
preparing, they can be kept on the stove and hot. Now 
mash well and finely with the potato-masher, and then 
season with salt ; allow a generous piece of butter, and 
lastly, add a teacup of rich milk ; mix altogether well, 
and then take up on a deep dish= 

There will now be three or four ways to finish this, 



JtSS 



156 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



l> \\ 



m 



and which are, first l)y putting a little butter on the top, 
after smoothing nicely, and putting it a moment at the 
mouth of the oven, and then serving quite hot; or you 
may put it into the oven, which shouldhe quick and hot, 
and bake the crust of a rich brown. Or, again, the top 
may l)e scored a golden brown with steel bars made for 
this purpose. Or, lastly, after mashing the potato, put 
it into a mould and shape it ; then loosen it from the 
mould and turn it on to a flat piece of sheet iron, large 
enough to cover the l;ottom of the mould with handles 
at the sides. Then have ready hot lard in which you 
immerse the moulded potato and fry a rich golden brown. 
Take out and with a knife under, slide carefully on ycur 
platter. Garnish the dish around with curled parsley 
leaves. If the potato is put in the oven to brown, it 
should be put in a baking plate and may be sent to the 
table in the dish in which it is baked, with a knitted 
cover over. 

FRENCH POTATOES. 

Mrs. W. G. DaviB. 

Peel and cut some potatoes in slices lengthwise, wipe 
dry and drop them in boiling lard ; serve very hot. 

POTATOES AND CREAM. 

Mince cold boiled potatoes line ; put them into a spider 
with melted butter in it ; let them fry a little in the 
butter well covered; then put in a fresh piece of butter, 
season with salt and pepper, and pour over cream or rich 
milk; let it boil up once and serve. 



a 

V 

t: 

li 

E 
I 



4 



VALUABLE REeMHb^ ^^' 

lOTATOES FRIED. 

Mrs. A. 

Pare potatoes ; cut in pieces one-half inch wide, and 
as long as the potato; keep them in cold water till 
wanted ; drop in hoiling lard ; when nearly done, take 
them out with a skimmer and drain them ; hoil up the 
lard again, and drop them back, and fry till done ; this 
makes them puff up ; sprinkle with salt andjserve very 
hot. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Take finely mashed potato and mix through it sufficient 
salt, pepper, and butter to season well, with sweet milk 
or cream to moisten; mix thoroughly with this one 
beaten egg, and then make up into small rolls, 1)eing 
careful to have the surface perfectly smooth. Have 
readv one plate with a beaten egg upon it, and another 
with cracker crumbs. Dip each roll into the egg and 
then into the crumbs, and fry of a rich golden brown in 
hot lard. Lay the croquettes on brown paper first, and 
serve on a napkin. 

PARSNIPS. 

• Boil until tender in a little salted water ; then take 
up ; skim them, cut in strips, dip in beaten egg, and fry 
in melted butter or hot lard. 

TURNIPS. 
Boil until tender : mash and season with butter, pep- 

-, T..1 • 1 __.:n. ,.«r.ni« QciVfO With 

per, salt, and a iitue ricn muiv ui ^eaii.. d--- 
mutton. 



»«1 






mmv^mm' 



158 



s \ 



t! 



ill 



r 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BEETS. 



Clean thene nicely, but do not pare them, leaving on 
a short piece of the stalk. Then put over to boil in hot 
water. Young beets will cook tender in an hour ; old 
beets require several hours boiling. When done, skin 
quickly while hot ; slice thin into your vegetable dish, 
put on salt, pepper and a little butter ; put over a 
little vinegar and serve ho+ or cold. 

BAKED SQUASH. 

Cut in pieces, scrape well, bake from one to one and 
a half hours, according to the thickness of the squash ; 
to be eaten with salt and butter as sweet potatoes. 

FRIED SQUASHES. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

Cut the squash into thin sUces, and sprinkle it with 
salt • let it stand a few moments ; then beat two eggs, 
and 'dip the squash into the egg ; then fry it brown m 
butter. 

SUMMER SQUASHES. 

Cook them Nvhole ; when tender, if large, skin and 
remove the seeds ; if small, this will no^, be necessary ; 
drain and press the water out with a plate ; then put 
them in a stew-pan, and season well with butter, pepper, 
and salt, and a tablespoon of cream. 

GREEN CORN— BOILED. 

Throw the ears, when husked, into a kettle of boiling 



I 
f 



V.\LUABLE RECIPES. 

Nvater, slightly salted, and boil thirty minutes, 
in a napkin. 



169 

Serve 



GREEN CORN OYSTERS. 

To a pint of grated corn add two well beaten eggs ; 
one-half cup of cream, and a half cup of flour, with one- 
half spoon of baking powder stirred in it ; season with 
pepper and salt and fry in butter, droppmg the batter 
in spoonsful ; serve a few at a time, very hot, as a rehsh 
with meats. 

GREEN CORN PATTIES. 

M. 

Grate as much corn as will make one pint- on. ' Ja- 
cup flour, one teacup butter, one egg, peppe; and sfMt 
to taste. If too thick, add a little milk, ano fry hi 
butter. 

SOUTHERN WAY OF BOILING RICE. 

Mrs. Stotesbury. 

Pick over the rice ; rinse it in cold water until perfectly 
clean, then put it in a pot of boiling water, allowing a 
quart of water to less than a teacup of rice ; boil it hard 
seventeen minutes ; drain off the water very close, and 
let it steam fifteen minutes with the lid off. When care- 
fully done in this way, each kernel of rice stands out by 
itself, while it is perfectly tender. The water m which 
the rice has been boiled makes, it is said, good starcii 
for musUn, if boiled a few minutes by itself. 



!/' 






f 



\ 



111 



160 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Mrs. Samuel McMaster. 

One pint of greeiin grated corn, two tablespoons of 
milk, three eggs, two tablespoons butter ; flour to make 
a batter ; and fry on griddle with butter. 

SUCCOTASH. 

One pint of green corn cut from the cob, and two- 
thirds of a pint of Lima beans ; let them stew in just 
enough water to cover them until tender, then season 
with butter, pepper, salt, and a little milk ; simmer to- 
gether a few moments and serve. 

CANADIAN BAKED BEANS. 

Mr3. Higgins. 

Boil the beans until they begin to crack, with a pound 
or two of salt fat pork ; put the beans in the baking- 
pan ; score the pork across the top, and settle in the 
middle ; add two tablespoons of sugar or molasses, and 
bake in a moderate oven two hours ; they should be 
very moist when first put into the oven, or they will 
grow too dry in baking. Do not forget tlio sweetening 
if you want Yankee baked beans. 

GREEN PEAS. 

Shell and put into boiling water, cook from thirty to 
thirty-five minutes ; drain aud season with rich milk or 
cream, butter, pepper, and :ialt ; sonic cooks also add a 
little flour or corn starch to thicken the gravy, but which 



«M 



of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



161 



should be used very sparingly, not more than a teaspoon. 
Be sure the peas are young ; old peas are fit for nothing 
but soup. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Cut off the green ends, and chop up the remainder of 
the stalks ; boil until tender, and season with salt and 
pepper ; have ready some toasted bread in a deep dish ; 
mix together equal parts of flour and butter to a cream ; 
add to this slowly enough of the asparagus water or 
clear hot water to make a sauce ; boil this up once ; 
put the asparagus ou the toast and pour over all the 
sauce. 



BAKED CABBAGE. 

Boil a cabbage, then put in a colander, and drain it 
until perfectly dry ; then chop fine ; put in pepper, salt, 
and a little cream, and put in an earthen baking-pan 
and into the oven. Bake one hour. 

DRESSED CABBAGE. 

Mrs. B. J. Seward. 

One small teacup of vinegar, one egg, two tablespoons 
of sugar, one teaspoon of salt, and butter half the size 
of an egg ; beat the egg before mixing with the other 
ingredients, which should be previously put over the 
fire, then put in tlie egg ; stir until it boils ; cool and 
pour over chopped or shaved cabbage. 



/ 



i.-iMlPS'Ji 



162 the home cook book. 

CAULIFLOWElI. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

Remove the leaves ; cut the main stalk close to the 
tlower ; lay it in hoiling milk and water slightly salted, 
with the stalk down : when done, take out carefully and 
drain in a colander, then place in the vegetahle dish 
and pour over it a rich drawn hutter dressing. 

ESCALOPED TOMxVrOES. 

Put into an earthen haking dish a layer of cracker 
cruml)s and small hits of hutter ; then a layer of toma- 
toes with a very little sugar sprinkled over them ; then 
another layer of cracker crumhs seasoned with hutter, 
and a layer of tomatoes, until your dish is full, with 
the cracker crumhs at the top ; pour over all this a little 
water to moisten, and hake half an hour. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

Mi-H. Saulter. 

Put ripe tomatoes into hot water and skin them ; then 
throw them into an earthen stew pan, (a new tin will 
do, hut not so good); cut up and let the tomatoes cook 
gently a few minutes ; season with hutter, pepper, salt, 
and serve. Or you may add l)read crumhs and sugar 
to the tomatoes if preferred. Some cooks stew tomatoes 
for a long time, hut the flavour is finer if allowed to sim- 
mer hut a few moments, just sufficient time to heat well 
through. 



i 



i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 



163 



Wash, wipe and then cut m two ; place them in a 
baking tin with the skin side down, and season with 
pepper and salt, and place in a hot oven; take up care- 
fully when done, and put bits of butter on each piece of 
tomato. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Cut a large Feejee tomato in half, flour the cut side, 
heat very hot, and put the floured side down; when 
brown on one side, turn ; when done, pour over a teacup 
of hot cream or rich milk. 

TOMATO HASH. 

Butter the dish well ; put in a layer of sliced toma- 
toes, a layer of cold meat, sliced thin; then a layer of 
bread and butter, and so on unti the dish is full, 
seasoning well with pepper and salt, and beaten eggs 
poured over the top. Bake brown. 

MACARONI. 

Mrs. M. C. Oridloy. 

Cook macaroni in water until soft; then put in a 
deep dish with alternate layers of grated crackers and 
cheese, a little salt ; fill up the dish with milk and bake 
one hour. 

MACARONI AU TOMATO. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

Throw one pound of macaroni into a preserving kettle 



I % 



1; -J 



4 



1 4 



164 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



half filled with boilmg water, (be sure that the water is 
boiling), and a small teaspoon of salt. Let it boil for about 
twenty minutes, or until it is tender; then drain in a col- 
ander before putting on a dish. Have about two table- 
spoons of cheese grated and sprinkle over it, then pour 
over a tomato sauce which has been strained, and made 
as follows : Two hours before the macaroni is put on 
the tire, take a quart of canned or fresh tomatoes and 
put in a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, half a 
small onion, a teaspoon of parsley cut fine, a piece of 
lard the size of an egg. Let it boil slowly for two hours; 
if it gets too dry add a few spoonsful of water. 

ONIONS— BOILED. 

Select those of uniform size ; remove the outer skin, 
then boil until tender in a large quantity of milk and 
water ; the flavour will be more delicate. Drain them 
when tender, and season with butter, salt, and pepper. 



I 

the; 
the 
but 



ONIONS— FRIED. 

Peel and slice and fry in lard or butter ; season with 
pepper and salt, and serve hot. 

MUSHROOMS— FRIED. 

When peeled put them into hot butter and let them 
heat thoroughly through— too much cooking toughens 
them. Season well with butter, pepper, and salt. Serve 
on buttered toast ; a teaspoon of wine or vinegar on each 
mushroom is a choice method. 



n. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

MUSHROOMS— STEWED. 



165 



If fresh, let them lie in salt and water about one hour, 
then put them in the stewpan, cover with water and let 
them cook two hours gently. Dress them with cream, 
butter and flour as oysters, and season to taste. 



1 ^ 



,.|.««gfffi«!«f^ 



PUDDINGS. 



And solid pudding against empty praise." 



EVE'S PUDDING. 

If you want a good pudding, mind what you nre taught ; 

Take eggs, six in number, when bought for a groat ; 

The fruit with which Eve her husband did cozen, 

Well pared, and well chopped, at least half a dozen ; 

Six ounces of bread, let Moll eat the crust, 

And crumble the rest as tint? as the dust ; 

Six ounces of currants, from the stem you must sort. 

Lest you break out your teeth, and snc/i aii the sport ; 

Six ounces of sugar won't make it too s vtct, 

Some salt and some nutmeg will make it c •'mpirite ; 

Three hours let it boil without any flutter, 

But Adam won't like it without wino and l\\.t:r. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. K. TIarmon. 

One cup of su. t chopped fine, one cup chopped raisins, 
one cup of molasi-rs, one cup of sweet milk, three tea- 
spoons baking powder : spice to your taste ; four cups 
of flour ; mix and steara three hours. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Two cups of chopped suet, two of raisins, ''two of 
molasses, four of flour, one of milk, three teaspoons of 



a»!SftSiJJE«li,«*e«J«»i 



' r 



^tA 



\\ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



167 



M 



% 



baking powder ; boil three and one-half hours ; eat 
while hot. Sauce for same : One cup of sugar, one- 
half of butter, one egg, one tablespoon of wine or 
vinegar ; beat fifteen minutes and heat to a scald. 

MADEIRA PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. C. Smith. 

One-half i-ound chopped suet, three-quarters of a 
pound bread crumbs, six ounces moist sugar, one-quar- 
ter pound flour, two eggs, two wineglasses of sherry ; 
mix the suet, breadcrumbs, sugar, and flour well together. 
When these ingredients are well mixed add :he eggs and 
two i^dasses of sherry, to make a thick batter ; boil three 
hours and a half; serve with ^\ine sauce. 

UNRIVALLED PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. E. Smith. 

Two pounds and a half of raisins, one or three quar- 
ters pound of currants, two pounds of the finest 
moist sugar, two pounds bread crumbs, sixteen eggs, 
two pounds finely chopped suet, six ounces of mixed 
candied peel, the rind of two lemons, one ounce of 
ground nutmeg, one ounce of ground cinnamon, half an 
ounce of pounded bitt'^r almonds, one- quarter of a pint 
of brandy. Mode : stone and cut up the raisins, do 
not chop them ; wash and dry the currants ; cut the 
candied peel into thin slices ; mix all the dry ingredi- 
ents well together, and moisten with the e""B which 
should be well beaten and strained ; then stir in the 
brandy ; and when all is thoroughly mixed, add butter 




w 



■ f 



.1 



^gg THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ana flo„. a.a p.ft tUe Vf^^^^tr^t^^^^ 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Banks. 

onf.+ one CUP molasses, one 
Three cups flour, one "■P.^^^'j^'^X^.alt teaspoons 

::rret=s^----uaa..^^^^^ 

PUDDING. 

Mrp. MetcaH. 

Oneteacnp sugar U.reo ^^^;:S:'J'C 
one egg, one teacup of -^^'^'^H^^^^-/^^, Lnube sour 

rr:rt^::i-'trar;r:iu pan a.out >,au 

IXfC^t in a few currants improves.. 

SUET PUDDING. 

MrB. W. Butterfield. 

t one CUP of molasses, one cup of 
one cup of ^^ ^ ^^^^^,^^,, ^ups of flour 
milk, one cup of laisms, tui tablespoon of 

"- egg, o- '^t^^eraVttotXoneteaspoonofsoda, 
:S:inr:S;%tean> three Uours. 

STEAMED PLUM PTJDMNG. 



Mis. "■ ■• • 



One 



ana one-fourth cups beef suet, two cups ra,snrs. 



■^, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



169 



U^ 



I I 



It 

i 



four cups flour, one cup milk, one cup molasse%, one 
teaspoon soda, one teaspoon salt. Season with nutmeg, 
cloves, cinnamon, and allspice to taste ; steam four hours. 
Do not uncover the steamer, but raise occasionally, to 
fill the kettle with boiling water. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. E. Houghton. 

One cup suet, one cup sweet milk, one cup molasses, 
one cup sugar, one cup currants, two and a half cups 
raisins, four cups flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon cloves, one teaspoon spice, one teaspoon soda ; 
boil three hours. 

ENGLISH FRUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. S. Bristol, 

One pound currants, one pound stoned raisins, one 
pound sugar, one pound suet, two pounds of grated or 
soaked bread, six eggs, one-half teaspoon saleratus, one 
teaspoon sf^lt, and one grated nutmeg ; crumb the soft 
part of the bread fine ; soak the crust with boiling milk, 
or water will do ; beat up the eggs and put all together, 
mixing thoroughly with the hands ; take a square piece 
of cotton cloth and lay it in a tin pan, put the pudding 
into the cloth and tie down close ; put into a pot of boil- 
ing water, and boil five hours ; as the water boils away, 
keep adding more. 

12 



^ 



u 



'] 






170 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

M. Walker. 

One pound raisins (stoned), one pound of currants, 
one pound suet very finely chopped, one pound flour, 
seven eggs, two wineglasses brandy, three of gwciot wine, 
sugar and spice to taste, (it may reqni little sweet 

milk); tie it tightly in a well floured cioth, wliicn should 
be first dipped in hot water, and boil four hours, or it 
may be boiled in a pudding form. 

SNOWDON PUDDING. 

Madame E. Pornet. 

Quarter pound bread crumbs, half pound suet, quar- 
ter pound sugar, two eggs well beaten, two tablespoons- 
ful preserves, two ounces candied citron or orange peel. 
Butter a mould or basin, stick some of the citron over it, 
pour in your mixture, and steam for three or four hours; 
melt some of the preserves, and pour over the pudding 
for sauce. 

FANNY L'S BATTER PUDDING. 

' Six eggs, eight tablespoons flour, one quart sweet 
milk, very little salt. Bake in a quiet oven. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Hempstead. 

One pint raisins, one pint currants, one pint suet, one 
pint flour, oue-hali pial bread crumbs, oji'^ cup milk, 
five eggs, spices to taste, a little candied orange and 



K< 



fi 



VALUABLE RROIPES. 



171 



i 



^^. 



fl 



lemon ; mix all together and boil three hours, 'i e 
eaten with wine sauce. 

BIRD'S NEST. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

Pare six or eight large apples (Spitzenbergs or Green- 
ings are best), and remove the core by cutting from the 
end down into (he middle, so as to leave the apple whole, 
except where the core has been removed ; place them as 
near together as they can stand with the open part up- 
ward in a deep pie-dish ; next make a thin batter, using 
one quart sweet milk, three eggs with sufficient flour, 
and pour it into the dish around the apples, also filling 
the cavities in them ; bake them in a quick oven ; eat 
them with butter and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Miss Kiley. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons sugar, four table- 
spcons corn stare , two and a half tablespoons choco- 
late ; scald the miH- over boiling water ; dissolve the 
corn starch in a litiic seal* d milk, and before it thick- 
ens add ti.e chocolate lissolved in boiling water; stir 
until suificiently cookd. Use with cream, or sauce of 
butter and sugar stirred to "earn. 

COCOANUT PUi^^'ING. 

C. A. Tinkham. 

One quart sweet milk, ten tablespoons grat 1 cocoanut, 
one cup powdered sugar, and whites of ten r^ gs ; bake 



«m- 



h * 



172 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



one hour, evenly and slowly ; to be served cold, with 
sugar and cream. 

ALMOND CUSTAED PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. 

Make a delicate sponge cake and stick it full of blanched 
almonds. Pour over a little wine, and then a rich 
vanilla custard. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Boil until white, mealy, and very tender some potatoes ; 
rub them finely washed through a colander ; to a pint 
bowl of them while hot add one-quarter of a pound of 
butter, and mix well ; beat the yolks of six eggs well with 
one pound of fine sugar ; add the grated rind and juice 
of one lemon, and then the beaten whites ; stir lightly 
in, and bake in pie plates lined with paste ; eat cold. 

QUEEN'S PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. P. Wightman. 

One quart of sweet milk, one pint of bread crumbs, 
five eggs, one teaspoon of corn starch, one large or two 
small lemons, one cup of common sugar, and one of 
pulverized sugar ; bring the milk to a scald, pour it over 
the bread crumbs and let it cool ; beat the yolks of the 
eggs and one cup of common sugar together, and mix in 
the corn starch also ; just before putting in to bake, add 
the grated rind of the lemon, and bake twenty minutes. 
Beat the whites of the eggs and one cup of pulverized 
sugar together, and add the lemon juice ; when the 



\ 



y^ 



[, with 



anched 
a rich 



tatoes ; 

a pint 
)und of 
ell with 
id juice 

lightly 
!old. 



3ruml)s, 
B or two 
. one of 
r it over 
ts of the 
d mix in 
ike, add 
ninutes. 
ilverized 
hen the 



t 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



173 






>^ 1 



pudding is done, put this on the top and set it in the 
oven again for a few minutes ; to be eaten cold. 

EOLY— POLY. 

M. 

Take one quart of flour ; make good biscuit crust ; roll 
out one-half incli thick and spread with any kind of fruit, 
fresh or preserved; fold so that the fruit will not run 
out; dip cloth into boiling water, and flour it and lay 
around the pudding closely, leaving room to swell ; 
steam one or one and one-half hours ; serve with boiled 
sauce ; or lay in steamer without a cloth, and steam for 
one hour. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

One cup suet, half cup molasses, half cup sugar, two 
eggs, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon- 
ful soda, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, dissolved in the 
milk, which you add the last thing. Butter a dish or 
bowl, strew raisins on the bottom ; steam two hours. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Gale. 

One and a half pounds of suet, one pound stoned 
raisins, one pound currants, eight eggs, half grated nut- 
meg, two ounces candied peel, one teaspoonful ground gin- 
ger, half pound bread crumbs, half pound flour, two 
pounds dark sugar, half pint milk. Boil ten hours and 
serve with brandy sauce. Excellent. 



wyy j y' - - " ,-!"^:? 



^ 5 



I. ^- 



: 5 i 



174 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler and others. 

Two quarts of milk, half a teacup of rice, a little less 
than a teacup of sugar, the same quantity of raisins, a 
teaspoon of cinnamon or allspice ; wash the rice, and 
put it with the rest of the ingredients into the milk; 
bake rather slowly from two to three hours ; stir two or 
three times the first hour of baking. If properly done, 
this pudding is delicious. 

COTTAGE PUDDiNG. 

Mr. G. S. Whitaker. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, one pint of 
tlour, two tablespoons of melted butter, one teaspoon of 
soda, two teaspoons of cream tartar, one egg. 

RICE AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. R. Beaty. 

One cup of rice boiled very soft ; stir well to keep from 
burning ; eight large apples, stewed ; press the pulp 
through a sieve, mix it thoroughly wHh the rioe ; add 
half a teaspoonful of butter and yolks of two eggs well 
beaten ; sweeten to taste. Bake. Beat the whites of 
the eggs and put on the top. It is nicer almost cold. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. Kent. 

One cup of suet, one cup of sour milk, one-half spoon 
soda, one cup sugar, nutmeg and salt, and fiour to 
stiffen. 



ttle less 
isins, a 
ice, and 
e milk; 
r two or 
ly done, 



B pint of 
jpoon of 



eep from 
the pulp 
•ice ; add 
eggs well 
whites of 
lost cold. 



lalf spoon 

I UUUX lO 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 175 

A QUICK PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. VV^. D. 

One-half pint of milk, one-half pint of cream, three 
eggs beaten sei)arately, little over one-half pint flour ; 
season with lemon or vanilla. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Two quarts scalded milk with salt, one and one-half 
cups Indian meal (yellow) ; one tablespoon of ginger, 
letting this stand twenty minutes ; one cup molasses, 
two eggs (saleratus if no eggs), a piece of butter the size 
of a common walnut. Bake two hours. Splendid. 

CORN MEAL PUDDING. 

Etta C, Springer. 

One quart of sweet milk, boiled ; stir in four table- 
spoons of corn meal ; stand till cool ; ])ut in four beaten 
eggs, sweeten to taste ; two tablespoons of butter. 
Bake two hi t. 

SAGO AND APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

3oil a cup of sago in boiling water with a little cinna- 
mon, a cup of sugar, lemon tlavouring ; cut apples in 
thin slices, mix them with the sago ; after it is well 

dish and bake half an hour. 



J V' 



I 



irjQ THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. McGee. 

When roasting a piece of beef lay it on sticks in yoiir 
bake pan. so that the juice of the meat will drop mto 
the pan beloNv ; three-quarters of an hour before the beet 
is done, mix the following pudding and pour it mto tiie 
pan under the meat, letting the >ippingH contmue to 
fall up.m it : one pint milk, four eggs well beaten, two 
cups flour, one teaspoon salt. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of 
water, one tablespoon corn starch, one cup sugar, one 
efra and a'piecc of butter the size of a small egg ; boil 
the 'water ; wet the corn starch with a little cold water, 
and stir it'in; when it boils up pour H on the sugar 
and butter ; after it cools add the egg and lemon. ] Bake 
with upper and under crust. 

AUNT LUCY'S APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Peel some apples, stew until tender, (not too much 
water), put through the colander ; for one pie take three 
eacra, one-third cup butter, one-third sugar, flavour wi h 
lemon (fresh or extract), and nutmeg; use on^y the yolks 
of the eggs in the pie, and cover with the whites, and 
brown the same as for lemon pies- 



I 

'1 



k 



•I* 



5 in your 
rop into 
the beef 
into the 
dtinue to 
.ten, two 



le cup of 
ugar, one 
egg; boil 
»1(1 water, 
he sugar 
m. ! Bake 



IE. 

too much 
take three 
ivour with 
y the yolks 



t 









A 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 1"' 

OKANGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Peel and cut five good oranges into thin slices, taking 
out all seeds ; put over them a coffee cul) of fine white 
sugar. Let a pint of milk get boiling hot, by setting m 
hot water; add the yolks of three egga well beaten, one 
tablespoon of corn starch made smooth in a little cold 
milk; stir all the time, and as soon as thickened pour 
it over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add a 
tablespoon of sugar, and spread it over the top for frost- 
ing ; set in oven a minute to harden. Can be eaten 
hot, but is best cold. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. Frisbio. 

One-third of a box of gelatine, (the best you can find) ; 
soak ten minutes in cold water ; put un the stove and 
Btir until it is dissolved ; let it cool, then beat to a froth ; 
take the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth, one cup of 
sugar, flavour with lemon ; mix all together and put in 
small cups first wet in water, and set away to cool and 
harden. Make a soft custard of the yolks, turn over 
the pudding when cold, and it is ready for the table. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One teacup of sugar, three tablespoons melted butter, 
one eee. one teacup of milk, two heaping cups of flour, 
one teaspoon of soda, two of cream tartar, if the miiK 



k 



178 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



be sour, leave out the cream tartar. Bake in a pan 
about half an hour ; add fruit if you Hke, it is quite an 
improvement. 



\ 



PUDDINGS. 






i\ 



m 



\a 



Mrs. Upham. 

Apple Dumpling. — One quart of flour, two table- 
spoonsful baking powder, two tablespoonfuls of lard or 
butter rubbed in flour, a little salt. Mix with water 
soft enough to roll. Slice your apples thin. Make 
either one large one or several small ones. 

Steam Fruit Pudding. — One cup sour milk, two eggs, 
butter size of half an egg, one teaspoonful of soda, a little 
salt. Stir flour to make a stiff batter. 

Sauce for Pudding. — One half cup boiling water, 
one tablespoon corn starch, two tablespoonsful vinegar, 
one tablespoonful of butter, one cup sugar, one-half 
nutmeg. 

Floating Island.— Put a quart of milk over to boil, 
sugar, salt, and flavouring to taste; separate three 
eggs ; beat the whites to a stiff froth ; drop them in the 
boiling milk from a tablespoon, letting them remain 
half a second ; then take two tablespoonsful and one- 
half of corn starch ; put it into the boiling milk ; let it 
remain five minutes, then add the yolks ; let it then 
boil two minutes, and take it off to cool ; then place it 
in a glass dish ; drop the whites upon it with a spoon- 
ful of cm-rant jelly on each. 



ij 



\ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 1'^ 

PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Upham. 

Apple Float.— A pint of stewed, well-maslied apples, 
the whites of three eggs beateu to a stiff froth, four 
large tablespoonsful of sugar ; then add the apples and 
sugar alternately, a spoonful of each, and beat all 
together until it stands up perfectly stiff ; it will swell 
immensely. Serve this in saucers on a custard made 
of the yolks of the eggs, one pint of milk, two table- 
spoonsful of sugar, and flavour with vanilla. 

Apple Meringue.— Prepare a pudding dish two- 
thirds full of nice sour apples, add one and 
one-half cups of water, and one cup of brown 
sugar, and some salt. Cover closely, and let them 
simmer in the oven until done to a mash. Beat the 
whites of five eggs, one cup of sugar, and the juice 
of a lemon, until they are a stiff froth ; pour over the 
apples and set in the oven to brown. Peaches or other 
canned fruits are very nice. The yolks of the eggs make 
a rich custard if beaten and stirred into a quart of boil- 
ing milk. Sweeten, season, and pour over it. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mias M. 

Take three-quarters of a lb. of suet, three eggs, and 
half pint of milk, flour sufficient to make a thick 
batter; to be well mixed together, and the suet not 
chopped too small ; boil two hours. 



T 



1 




180 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

"OUR OWN LITTLE PUDDINGS." 

Miss Brokovski. 

Boil half a pint of milk, pour it over the crumbs of a 
"penny roll," or a "Sally Lunn" stale, two eggs, two 
ounces suet chopped fine, a little grated lemon peel, 
twelve bitter or sweet almonds ; sweeten to your taste 
with fine sugar, and a little nutmeg ; bake in teacup ; 
sweet sauce put over them. 

PRETTY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Charles Bradbury. 

One tablespoon fiour wet with one-half cup of cold 
milk, the yolks of three eggs beaten, one small cup sugar ; 
mix these together ; put one quart of milk in a kettle 
and set it in boiling water ; when the milk is at the boil- 
ing point, stir in the above mixture with vanilla or rose 
flavouring ; stir till it begins to thicken, then take it off 
and let it cool a little ; pour it into a pudding dish or 
cups; then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, 
add a teaspoon of fine white sugar, and drop it on the 
top of the custard in rounds about as largo as an egg ; 
put a small spoon of currant or other tart jelly on the 
middle of each round ; serve cold. 

POUND CAKE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. L. Nichols. 

One cup sugar, one-half of butter, rub to a cream, add 
one cup of milk, three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten 
separately, one teaspoon of soda in the milk, two tea- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



181 



\ 



spoons of cream tartar in the flour ; fruit ; bako oi steam 
an hour. 

MADEIRA PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Four eggs, four tablespoons butter, sugar and flour ; 
beat all very light and then add flavouring; bake in 
small cups in a quick oven; serve immediately, with 
sauce. 

MATRIMONY SAUCE. 

Put a bit of butter into cold water in a saucepan, dust 
in a little flour, stirring one way till they are completely 
mixed ; then add some brown sugar and a tablespoonful 
or so of vinegar ; continue stirring till it boils ; pour into 
a sauce dish and serve with your dumplings. 

PUDDING— APPLE AND LEMON. 

Mrs. R. Beaty. 

Four eggs, whites of three to dl kent for the top, six 
apples stewed or grated fine, four cnrces of butter, six 
ounces of white sugar, juice and rind of one lemon. It 
is nicer cold. 

PRESERVES PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Beaty. 

One pint of bread crum1)H, one quart of milK, eignu 
tablespoons sugar, yolks of foiur eggs ; beat yolks and 



' \- 



182 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



? 



sugar together, then stir in the crumbs with the boiling 
milk and the rind of one lemon. When the pudding is 
done, beat the whites to a stiff froth with two table- 
spoons white sugar. Spread the pudding with jam or 
jelly over the top, then put on the whites of egg and 
bake to a light brown. 

TEN CENT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Joseph Robinson. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of suet, one cup of cur- 
rants, one cup of raisins, one and a half cups of milk, 
quarter of a teaspoonful of soda, three cups flour[ 
pices to taste, and a little brandy or whiskey! 
f mixed over night so much the better, adding 
he soda in the morning dissolved in a little 
«varm water; tie in a cloth like plum pudding, and 
steam three hours. This size must not be boiled. 
If double quantity is made four hours' steaming is 
required. Sauce made as for plum pudding, or wine 
sauce. This pudding is very nice warmed up the second 
day. 

BATTEK PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. L. Bristol. 

One pint of milk, four eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately, ten tablespoons of sifted flour, a little 
salt ; beat in the whites of the eggs the last thing before 
baking ; bake half an hour. 

STEAMED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. M. G. Hubbeli. 

Two eggs to two teacups of sour milk, two teaspoons f 



*l 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



183 



k 



X 



ealeratiis and salt ; stir very thick or it will be heavy ; 
then add any fruit you wish ; steam two hours ; eaten 
with sweetened cream. 

AMHERST PUDDING. 

Mrs. F. M. Cragin. 

Three cups of flour, one of suet, one of milk, one of 
molasses, two of raisins ; salt and spice to your taste ; 
one teaspoon saleratus ; boil in a bag three hours. For 
sauce : One cup of sugar, one-half of butter, one egg. 

CUP PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. Midgley. 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, the same 
of flour, the same of milk, about half a cup of butter, 
and a teaspoonful and a half of baking powder ; butter 
your cups, pour in a small quantity of preserves, then 
fill with batter half way, and steam twenty minutes. 

MARMALADE PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Half pound suet, half pound grated bread crumbs, 
half pound sugar, three ounces orange marmalade ; mix 
these ingredients together with four eggs ; boil four 
hours. Lay a few raisins open in the bottom of the 
mould. Sauce: Two ounces butter, and two ounces 
white sugar ; beat to a cream and flavour with brandy or 
lemon. 



f' 



14 * 



i '■ 



I 



184 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Mrs, J. H. Mead. 

Half pound stale bread crumbs, three-quarters of a 
pound of flour, ten dr twelve ounces of boei suei, half a 
teaspoon of salt, two eggs well beaten, rne cup milk ; 
make into a smooth paste; add fruit if desired ; boil three 
and a half hours. 

POTATO PUDDING. 

Mrs. P. 

One pound of potatoes, half pound sugar, half p^und 
butter, eight eggs, a nutmeg, sweet and oitter ..I mends 
to taste, one glass spirits, a small cup of .ream ; potatoes 
and butter to be beaten to a cream, '^hen the other 
ingredients added and let stand for two hours before it 
is ovened. This quantity makes a large pudding. 

APPLE AND BREAD-CRUMB PUDDING. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Pare and chop fine half a dozen jooking apples, grease 
a pudding dish and put in a layrr hiU an inch thick of 
grated bread, add bits of butter [iai. m a layer of chopped 
apples with sugar and nutmeg, and repeat till the dish 
is full ; pour over the whole a teacup of cold water ; bake 
thirty minutes. Requires no sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Two egg«, one cup Bugar, one cup milk, three and ,a 
half cups flour, one teaspoon soda, two cream tartar, 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



185 



*• 



one tablespoon butt< r melted and put in the last thing ; 
Bteabi one and a half or two hours. 

PAllADIRE PUDL'uXG. 

One pint bread crumbs, one pin. suet, four eggs, four 
apides minced fine, one cup currants, halt-cup raisins, 
ontf cup milk, spiceto taste ; thicken with tlour, one and 
a half cups sugar; put m a mould and steam or boil 
three and a half hours. 

SWEET MANCHESTER PUDDING. 

One pint bread crumbs, three eggs, one cup sugar, 
one pint milk, piece of butter size ( fan egg, flavour with 
lemon; put a layer of bread crumbs in the dish, then 
one oi jam, and so on till full; finish with crumbs; pour 
the cubtai I oi vhe top. To hv eaten with cream. 

SMALL AND CHEAP i . UM PUDDING. 

One cup Suet, one cup raisins, one cup^ currants, one 
cup molasses, one egg, four cups fiour. one cup milk, 
one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cloves, one teaspoon 
cinnamon ; boil or steam throe hours. 

QUEEN OP PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one q^art milk, four eggs, 
(the yolks), piece of butter size of an egg, sugar to sweeten, 
flavour with lemon. When baked, spread with jelly, 
then the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff frotli, with a 
little sugar and lemon spread on the top^ Ijrown s^'^'ht* 
ly in a hot oven. To be eaten with sugar -and crL„m, 

13 






MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No, 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



ISO 



1^ 



2.8 



nil T 9 

I 5 6 J-/ 



13.6 



4.0 



1.4 



II 2.5 
2.2 

2.0 



1.8 



1.6 



^ /APPLIED irvHGE Inc 



'6!3 3 Eas' Mam Slreel 
Rochester. New York 14609 USA 
••"'■' '•82 0300 - Phone 
,H8 - 5989 - Fax 



■ ii 



186 



f 



ii 



li 






THE liOME COOK BOOK. 

SUET PUr>DING. 



One cup suet, one of bread crumbs, one of flour, half- 
cup of milk with half a teaspoonful of soda, one cup 
molasses, one spoonful cream tartar. If you wish to 
make it richer, add a cup of currants and a few raisins. 

DELIGHTFUL PUDDING. 

One quart boiled milk, put one half of a tumbler of 
mashed potatoes, one half tumbler of flour, and a small 
piece of butter ; when cool add three beaten eggs ; bake 
half an hour. To be eaten with sugar and cream or 

milk. 

ANOTHER. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one spoonful of butter, one 
cup sweet milk, one pint flour, two and a half teaspoons 
of baking powder; bake three quarters of an hour; 
serve with sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

Two cups of flour, one of sugar, one and a half cups 
of milk, two tablespoons butter, one or two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar and soda. Flavour with 
lemon ; bake one hour in a moderate oven ; serve with 
cream or sauce. 

FRENCH RICE PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

Steam or car^^ully cook one cup full of rice. Mean- 
while take sii^rated tart apples, yolks of four eggs, one 



i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



187 



i 



cup of sugar, nutmeg to taste, one glass best wine, and 
one lemon, i^art of juice of which you reserve for whites 
of eggs ; l)ake these, well whipped together, in the oven. 
Then form a pyramid of layers of rice and the apple 
mixture, making the lirst and last of rice ; then take 
the whites of the eggs whipped stiff and flavoured with 
the lemon juice ; cover the whole evenly with a long 
bladed knife dipped in cold water ; sift and put white 
sugar over the whole, and place in the oven until of a 
delicate brown colour. If the sugar l)e not sifted on 
top the surface is only glazed and pasty in appearance. 

CHRISTMAS TLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One pound raisins chopped fine, one pound currants, 
three-quarters pound bread crumbs, half-pound flour, 
three-quarters pound of beef suet, three eggs, one-half 
pound citron and lemon peel, half a nutmeg, and one 
teaspoon ground ginger, two teaspoons cook's friend, 
sweet milk enough just to wet all ; tie in a cloth and boil 
three hours. 

STEAMED PUDDING. 

Mrs. Snider. 

One cup molasses, on« cup suet, three cups flour, one 
cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, two teaspoons cream 
tartar, one teaspoon ginger, one cup each of currants 
and raisins ; steam two hours. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs, Snider. 

Pare and slice half a dozen cooking- appes ; grease a 



u 



n if 



188 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



pudding-dish, put a thick layer of grated bread crumbs, 
add bits of butter, then a layer of apples, with sugar 
and nutmeg, and repeat until the dish is full ; pour over 
the whole a teacup of cold water, and bake thirty min- 
utes. 

PLUM PUDDING, 

Miss M. R. Beard. 

Half pound of raisins, quarter pound of currants, 
quarter pound of sugar, bread crumbs, quarter of a 
pound of Hour, half pound suet, six eggs, half cup milk ; 
nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt; half pound citron and 
lemon peel ; to boil five hours. 

CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 

Misf? L. Stagman. 

Heat three pints of milk to a boiling point ; stir into 
it the yolks of eight eggs well beaten, and one large 
tablespoonful of corn starch; let it then thicken a 
little, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Lay slices of 
sponge cake in a pudding dish ; pour over the pudding ; 
add to the top of it the whites of eight eggs well beaten, 
and flavour with lemon; then set it in the oven to 
brown lightly. To be eaten cold. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Mrs. Freeman. 

Soak a pint of bread crumbs in milk for an hour, 
then squeeze with the hands to a pulp, -and mix "fell 
with a gill of Alk ; then add three tablespoons of sugar, 



I 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



189 



large 



I 



one-quarter pound raisins, one-quarter pound of melted 
butter, and the yolks of four eggs ; then beat the whites 
of the eggs to a froth and mix with the res. ; turn the 
mixture into a dish and bake about farty minutes. 
Serve with wine sauce, hot or cold, according to taste. 

BAKED CRACKER PUDDING. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowell. 

Two quarts of sweet milk, seven Boston butter crackers 
rolled, three eggs, a little nutmeg, a little salt, sweeten 
with sugar to taste. Bake two hours and a half in a 
moderate oven. 

THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Mrs. John Morse. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one pint of milk, the yolks 
of three eggs ; bake in the oven a short time, until it 
becomes stiff ; then place preserves over this, and beat the 
whites of the three eggs to a froth and lay all over this 
again ; sprinkle white sugar on the top, and allow it to 
bro^n in the oven for a few minutes.. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Mrs. ^ohu Morse. 

Half pound suet, one pound figs, chopped ; one pound, 
bread crumbs, half pound sugar, one egg, one nutmeg, 
half teaspoonful of baking soda ; grease the tin mould 
well; boil three hours tied in a cloth ; it requires milk 
enough to moisten it, one cup of flour ; to be eaten with 
wine sauce. 



iJir ii iii«»iii«n<iiiiiiiiiii\iiiiiiiiiimiWiriiri iiMilij 



/ '* 




190 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

APPLE brp:ad pudding. 

Mrs. O. L. Wheelock. 

Pare core, and chop oiic-lialf dozen sour apples ; dry 
bread in the oven until crisp, then roll ; butter a deep 
dish and place in it a layer of crumbs and apples alter- 
nately, ^vith spice, and one-half cup of beef suet chopped 
fine ; pour in one-half pint of sweet milk, and bake till 
nicely browned ; serve with hard sauce. 
APPLE PUDDING. 

Mrs. W. Guthrie. 

Five e^gs, one pint milk, four tablespoons flour, four 
apples grated ; bake one hour and a quarter. Serve 
with sweetened cream or pudding sauce. 
APPLE SAGO PUDDING. 

Mrs. K. 
One cup sago in a quart of tepid water, with a pinch 
of salt, soaked for one hour ; six or eight apples pared 
and cored, or quartered, and steamed tender, and put m 
the nudding dish ; boil and stir the sago until clear, 
adding water to make it thin, and pour it over the 
apples ; this is good hot with butter and sugar, or cold 
with cream and sugar. 

HUCKLEBEREY PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One brick loaf, wet it with boiling milk, say one pint, 
four eggs, little salt, and one quart of berries. Boil one 
and a half hours. Serve with wine sauce. 



i 



1 



101 

VALUABLE RECIPES. 

BLACKBEEKY PUDDING OE OTHEE BEEEIES. 

M. 

0:.e and one-half pints sifted flour ; put » littk of «>i^ 
into one and one-half pints of fresh hemes, lo the 
halanee of the flour add salt sufficient o ---.»- 

even teaspoon soda dissolved '« ""t, iTof'sv uno 
milk, then fill the cup three-fourths fu 1 of sj.up or 
molasses; stir all into a smooth hatter ; -''^ ^ * f 
berries ; mix lightly so as not to break. Pu into a 
bXred mould fnd place in hoihng ™ter tha does ™t 
quite reach the top of the mould. Do no k^t .t stop 
boiling for an instant. It must boil at least two hours. 
Serve with boiled sauce. 

FIG PUDDING. 
E. M. Walker. 
One-half pound figs, one-quarter pound grated bread 
two and a half ounces powdered ^ugar, three ounces 
luLr, two eggs, one teacup of milk. Chop the fig 
small and mix first with the butter, then all the other 
niients by degrees ; "»«- a mo,Ud spnnk e^with 
breal crumbs, cover it tight and boil for three hours. 
PLAIN FEUIT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

One cup of suet, three cups flour, one cup currants 
one eup of molasses, one cup of milk, one teaspoon of 
Boda, one of salt, one of ginger, half teaspoon cloves 
and one of cinnamon. Steam or boil three or four 
hours. 



Ii (. 



It 



if .! 



102 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs, Hamilton. 
Allow a pint of cold milk, four tablespoonsful of flour, 
two eggs, and a little salt ; stir the tlour Bmooth ma 
pirt ^.d beat them welliwith the mixed flour ; then add 
Ihe remainder of the milk, and when we 1 stirred together 
pour into a buttered dish and bake half an hour. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. J. D. Odell. 

Soak one cup of tapioca over night, peel and core as 
many apples as needea, and fill the cores with sugar 
place them in a dish and pour over the tapioca, and 
hake until transparent. 

CUKEANT PUDDING. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

Slice a baker's loaf, add butter, stew and sweeten 
three pints of currants, turn over the bread and set 
away until cold. Serve without sauce ; slice the bread 
thin. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

Half pound of sugar, half pound of butter, five eggs 
half gill brandy, rind and juice of one large lemon; beat 
well the butter and sugar ; whisk the eggs; add them to 
the lemon, grate the peel; hne a dish with puff paste 
and bake in a moderate oven. 



\ 



)f flour, 
th in a 
len add 

iogether 



, core as 
I sugar ; 
oca, and 



sweeten 

and set 

,he bread 



five eggs, 
men; beat 
Id them to 
)uff paste 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 1^° 

BAKED BATTER PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

Beat separately the yolks and Avhitcs of three eggs 
mix three tablespoons of flour with a pint of milk and 
a small piece of butter ; add the eggs ; bake in a quick 
oven. Serve with sauco. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

One and a-half cups flour, one and a-half cups suet, 
cue cup of currants, one cup of golden syrup, spices to 
taste, two tea,«poons cream of tartar. Steam four hours. 

CHERRY PUDDING. 

H. N. Jeuks. 

A pint of bread crusts or soft crackers, scalded in a^ 
quart of boiling milk, piece of butter the size of an egg, 
one teaspoon of salt, three eggs, one and a half teacups 
of sugar if eaten without sauce, and if with sauce a 
tablespoon of sugar; a pinch of pulverized cinnamon, 
and a quart of stoned cherries ; bake quickly. 

JELLY PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler. 

One quart of milk, one pint of bread crumbs, yolks 
of four beaten eggs, one-half cup of sugar ; bake about 
half an hour ; when cool, spread jelly over the pudd..,! 
beat the whites with a little sugar, and spread on top 
for frosting : set back in the oven a few minutes after 



^ 



194 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Ih \ 



:) 






V, •' 



1 



the whites have been spread on the pudding ; excellent 
for Sunday dinners, as it may be eaten cold. 

KISS PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

One quart of milk, three tablespoons of corn starch, 
yolks of four eggs, half cup sugar, and a little salt ; put 
part of the milk, salt, and sugar on the stove and let it 
boil ; dissolve the corn starch in the rest of the milk ; 
stir into the milk, and while boiling add the yolks. 
Flavour with vanilla. 

Frosting. — Whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth, 
half a cup of sugar ; flavour with lemon, spread it on 
the pudding, and put it into the oven to brown, saving 
a little of the frosting to moisten the top ; then put on 
grated cocoanut to give it the appearance of snow flake. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Mrs. Wyllie. 

Take three or four penny sponge cakes, cut into 
squares ; Hne a well buttered mould with raisins ; place 
the cake in the mould, adding raisins; pour over a rich 
custard, and steam for one and a half hours. 

TO MAKE A DANDY PUDDING. 

Miss Brokovski. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of currants, half a 
pound of suet, four ounces of treacle, a little nutmeg ; 
mix it well together with milk, and boil it four hours. 



•I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 195 

MERINGUE PUDDING. 

Mrs. C. A. Rogers. 

One pint of stale broad crumbs, one quart of milk, the 
yolks of four eggs, butter the size of an egg, a small cup 
"of sugar, salt, the grated rind of one lemon ; bake three- 
quarters of an hour. When cool, spread the top with 
preserves or jelly ; beat the whites of the eggs with five 
tablespoons of pulverized sugar ; spread on the puddmg, 
and brown in a quick oven ; eat with cream. 

ORANGE rUDDING. 

Mrs. .J. G. Hamilton. 

Peel and cut live sweet oranges into thin slices, taking 
out the seeds ; pour over them a coffee cup of white 
sugar ; let a pint of milk get boiling hot, by setting it 
in a pot of boiling water ; add the yolks of three eggs 
well beaten, one tablespoon of corn starch, made smooth 
with a little cold milk; stir all the time; as soon as 
thickened, pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a 
stiff froth, adding a tablespoon of sugar, and spread 
over the top for frosting ; set it in the oven for a few 
minutes to harden; eat cold or hot (better cold), for 
dinner or supper. Berries or peaches can be substituted 
for oranges. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Mrs. White. 

Put in'a basin one-fourth p-'md of flour, the same of 
sugar, same of bread crumbs : oa chopped suel?, the juice 



m-yvt^.iimltlliiv 



't-f 



19G 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 




of one good-sizeil lemon, and the peel grated ; two eggfi, 
and enough niilk to make it the consistency of porridge ; 
hoil in a basin for one hoiu' ; serve with or without sauce. 

CRACKED WHEAT PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

Cook cracked wheat enough for two meals ; stir in a ^ 
few minutes before taking up, raisins, dates, or any 
dried fruit ; next day prepare a custard as usual, and 
stir thoroughly through the wheat, and bake just long 
enough to bake tlie custard ; thus you have two desserts 
with but nttle trouble. Very palatable and nutritious. 

GERMAN PUDDING. 

A. S. Ewing. 

Beat six eggs separately until very light ; add one pint 
milk to the yolks, six tablespoons flour, one-half spoon 
butter, one-half nutmeg and saltspoon salt ; stir in whites 
of eggs last. Bake half an hour. 

S^ucE.— Six tablespoons sugar, one-half pound butter 
worked to a cream, one egg, one wineglass wine, one-half 
nutmeg ; put on the lire and let it come to &, l»oil. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Mrs. E. Wood. 

One and a half quarts milk, boiled, one-half cake of 
chocolate stirred in milk, small cup of corn starch dis- 
solved in little water, add two eggs, with one cup of 
siiffar, a little salt. Cream for sauce. 



\ 



vo eggn, 
jrridgo ; 
it sauce. 



tir in a , 

or any 

lal, and 

ist long 

desserts 
itritious. 



one pint 
If spoon 
in whites 

id butter 
, ope-balf 

il. 



; cake of 
irch dis- 
le cup of 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 1^7 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Am. S. F. McMaster. 

Peel and cut five good sweet juicy oranges into thin 
slices, taking out all the seeds ; pour over them a coffee 
cup of white sugar. Let a pint of milk get boiling hot 
by setting in boiling water ; add the yolks of throe eggs 
w^ell beaten, one tablespoon corn starch made smooth in 
a little cold milk ; stir all the time, and as soon as thick- 
ened pour over the fruit. Beat the whites to a stiff 
froth; add a tablespoon sugar and spread it on for 
frosting ; set it in the oven a few minutes to harden. 
Substitute any fruit if you prefer; peaches arc nice 
done this way. 

STEAM PUDDING. 

Mrs. B. 

Two cups flour, half cup suet, one cup sugar, one cup 
milk, one egg, a teaspoonful of soda, fruit to suit your 
taste ; steam two and a half hours. 

CABROT PUDDING. 

Mrs. McMaater. 

One and a half cups flour, one cup sugar, one cup suet, 
one cup raisins, one cup currants, one cup potatoes 
grated, one cup carrots grated, one teaspoon soda ; steam 
or boil three hours. 

BOILED PLUM PUDDING. 

Mrs. Hill. 

One cup milk, one cup molasses, one cup suet chopped, 



198 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



one cup raisins, one teaspoon soda, three cups flour, 
half a nutmeg; boil three hours and serve with wine 
sauce. 



1 V 



^ 



ti} 



i 



ht 



TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs, Ilico. 

Cover three tablespoons tapioca with water ; stand 
over right ; add one quart milk, a small piece of butter, 
a little salt, and boil ; beat the yolks of three eggs with 
a cup of sugar, and boil the whole to a very thick cus- 
tard ; flavour with vanilla ; when cold cover with whites 
of eggs beaten. 

CREAM TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Mrs. A. T. Hall. 

Soak three tablespoons of tapioca in water over night ; 
put the tapioca into a quart of boiling milk, and boil 
half an hour ; beat the yolks of four eggs with a cup of 
sugar : add three tablespoons of prepared cocoanut ; stir 
in and boil ten minutes longer ; pour into a pudding 
dish ; beat the whites of the four eggs to a stiff froth, 
stir in three tablespoons of sugar ; put this over the top 
and sprinkle cocoanut ever the top and brown for five 
minutes. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

Mrs. D. 

One-half package Coxe's gelatine ; pour over it a cup 
of cold water and add one and one -half cups of sugar .- 
when soft, add one cup boiling water, juice of one 



♦■ 



t 



1 



ti 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



199 



lemon and the whites of four well beaten eggs ; beat all 
together until very light ; put in glass dish and pour 
over it custard made as follows : One pint milk, yolks of 
four eggs and grated rind of one lemon ; l)oil. Splendid. 



U 



4 ^^/ 



RICE SNOW BALLS. 

Boil a pint of rice in two quarts of water, with a tea- 
spoon of salt, until quite soft, then put it in small cups, 
having them quite full ; when perfectly cold, turn them 
into a dish, take the yolks of three eggs, one pint of 
milk, one teaspoon corn starch ; flavour with lemon, 
and cook as you do soft custard ; turn over the rice half 
an hour previous to eating it. This is a nice dessert in 
hot weather. Sweet meats are a good accompaniment. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

Mrs. 0. L. Parker. 

One pound sugar sifted, one of choc^ u,te chopped very 
fine ; mix together ; beat the white of an egg, and stir in 
your chocolate and sugar ; continue to beat until stiff 
paste ; sugar your paper, drop them on it, and bake in a 
slow oven. 

CREAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. Watson Thatcher. 

One and one-half cups of flour, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one-half pint of boihng water ; boil butter and 
water together, and stir in the flour while boiling ; let it 

«nol nryA ctAA 4^xTCk \%rci}\-}\fia'i-a-n dctrta • rli^nrv nn fma an/1 

bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. Fill them with the 



4 



ff^ 



!<? 



liV 



IM 



200 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



following: One pint of milk, one cup of sugar, two- 
thirds of a cup of Hour, two eggs; beat the eggs, flour, 
and sugar together, and stir them in the milk while it is 
boiling. ^Yhen partially cool flavour with lemon, ihese 
are favourites in bake shops. 

DESSERT PUFFS. 

Mrs. N. C. Gridley. 

One pint sweet milk, scant pint flour, three eggs, 
(whites and yolks beaten separately) ; bake in cups. To 
be eaten with Hquid sauce. 

PUFF PUDDING. 

Mrs. C, A. Rogers. 

Five tablespoons of flour, five tablespoons of milk, five 
eags stirred smooth ; turn on a pint of boihng milk, and 
bake twenty minutes. To be eaten with hard sauce. 

GEEMAN PUFFS. 

H. M. Brewer. 

One pint sweet milk, five tablespoons flour, one table- 
Bpoon melted butter, six eggs, leaving out the whites ot 
three ; bake in buttered cups, half filled, twenty mmutes 

in hot oven. 

For SAUCE.-Beat the whites of five eggs to a still 
froth, and one coffee cup powdered sugar, and the juice 
of two nrariffea : turn the pudding from the cups on to a 
platter, and cover with the sauce just before sending to 
the table. 



4'. 
I 






h <li 



,--#-' 



:,PLM^iait^sc.lt^/-^frt»Miim^mt^> 



,)i»iit»a'^j»^^^'^'" 



two- 
flour, 
Bit is 
L'hese 



prrorg. 



S. 



To 



Ik, five 
Ik, and 
ice. 



e table- 
bites of 
minutes 

) a stiff 

lie juice 

on to a 

nding to 



T 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 201 

GEEMAN PUFFS. 

Mrs. E. P. Thomas, ^ 

One pint sweet milk. ' . r eggs, five tablespoons flour, 
and a little salt. Bake iree quarters of an bour. 

LEMON FRITTERS. 

After Marion Harland. 

Beat up tbe wbipped and strained yolks of five eggs 
witb one-balf a cup of powdered sugar ; add tbe grated 
peel of balf a lemon, one teaspoon of mingled nutmeg 
and cinnamon, a little salt, and one-balf a cup of cream ; 
tben tbe wbites of tbe eggs, and tben two beaping cups 
of prepared flour ; work all togetber quickly and ligbtly 
into a soft paste, just stiff enougb to roll out ; pass tbe 
rolling-pin over it until it be about tbree-quarters of an 
incb tbick ; cut into small circular cakes witb a tumbler 
or cake-cutter, and fry in bot lard. Tbey ougbt to puff 
np like crullers. Drain on clean bot paper, and eat 
^varm witb a sauce made of tbe juice of two lemons and 
tbe grated peel of one, one cup of powdered sugar one 
glass of wine, and tbe wbites of two eggs beaten stiff. 



14 



. ^ 



^ 





!" i'' 



m 



f, <. 



'■*V*^-^ 



- ...^ ...■?,•-; JSj*^W** 



te^fllfiBWft-i^'V^- 



i m<mw»i 



ufUMjm^ff^- 



PUDDING SAUCES. 




" I crack my brains to find out tempting sauces, 
And raise fortitications in the pastry." 



PUDDING SAUCE. 

Anonvmous. 



One cup of butter, one cup of milk, one cup of sugar, 
three eggs, flavour to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. Dunham. 

One-half cup ot butter, one cup of sugar, two eggs 
well beaten, and pour on one cup of boiling water ; 
flavour with nutmeg or other flavour. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. A. E. Scranton. 

Four tablespoons of white sugar, two tablespoons of 
butter, one tablespoon of iiour ; beat all to a cream and 
add the white of one egg well beaten ; then add one gill 
boiling water ; stir well ; flavour to taste. 

FOAMING SAUCE. 

Mrs. King. 

One-half teacup of butter, the same of sugar : beat 
to a froth ; put in a dish and set in a pan of hot water ; 



*i 



\ 



l.>. 



^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



203 



sugar, 



eggs 
water ; 



oons of 
am and 
one gill 



t 



V : 



t water ; 



add a tablespoon of hot water, or if preferred a little 
vanilla ; stir one way until it comes to a very light 
foam. 

WINE PUDDING SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
of wine, one egg; beat ])utter, sugar, and eggs together; 
set it on the stove and heat, pour in the wine, add a 
little nutmeg ; pour from one dish to another a few 
times, and send to the table. 

WINE SAUCE. 

M. A. T. 

Two teacups of sugar, one teacup of butter, ; stir to 
a cream ; beat two eggs very light, and stir all together ; 
add one teacup of wine ; mix and set on top of tea ket- 
tle of boiling water. It must not be put on the stove, 
nor boil. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. R. Beaty. 

One cup of milk, one teaspoonful butter, one egg, one- 
half cup pulverized sugar, one glass wine, nutmeg, one 
teaspoonful corn starch ; beat sugar and butter to- 
gether well ; beat the egg well, and mix. Boil the milk 
and cornstarch, and mix all together before bringing to 
table. 

EXTEA NICE PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, well beaten, then 



mmvlmtHnmfimimfgpi- 



204 



THK HOME TOOK nOOK. 



t 



I! I 



add two eggs and beat some-time : when ready for cook- 
ing add a cup of sherry wine, and put it over a pot of 
boiling water, and k't it cook ten minutes, stirring very 
often. It is then ready for the table. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

MrB. B. V. Hutchinson. 

Two eggs well beaten, one cup pulverized sugar. 
When mixed pour over one cup boiling milk, and stir 
rapidly. Flavour as you please. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mrs. Ancircws. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, yolks of 
three eggs ; one teaspoon of corn starch or arrow root ; 
f.tir the'^whole until very light ; add sufficient boiling 
water to make the consistency of thick cream ; wine or 
brandy to suit the taste. 

SAUCE FOR APPLE PUDDING. 

M. 

Boil good molasses with a little butter and serve hot. 
HARD SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS, RICE, ETC. 

M. 

Take one teacup sugar, one-half teacup butter, stir 
together until light ; flavour with wine or essence of 
lemon. Smooth the top with a knife and grate nutmeg 
over it. 






11 i' 



•<*<iM«MHwa4fi|MHI{ 



i^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

WINE SAUCE. 



205 



Brown one cup of sugar and a piece of butter the size 
of a hen's egg, in a saucepan. Pour two-thirds of a 
teacup of boiUng water slowly over the mixture ; when 
ready to serve add one-half cup of currant wine. 

V/INE SAUCE. 

Mrs. Pulsifer, 

Two ounces of butter, two teaspoons of flour, one- 
quarter of a pound of sugar, one gill of wine, and half a 
nutmeg grated ; mix the flour and butter together, add 
one-half pint boiling water and the sugar and wine ; 
just before serving add the grated nutmeg. Serve hot. 

GERMAN SAUCE. 

M. D. Harris. 

The whites of two eggs, the juice of one lemon, sugar 
enough to beat up to a proper consistency for serving. 



■< B p i gWB [a ^. e . ^ ^-* .. - ^ . : 



PIES. 



I; 



PASTRY. 



V 



Drink now the strong beer, 

(;v>t the whito loaf here, 
The while the meat is ashredtUng 

For the rare luince vie, 

And the plains stand l)y 
To till the paste that's a kneading. 

— Old SoN(i. 



li 



FINE PUFF PASTRY. 

Ono pound of Hour, a little more for roUiug pin and 
board, and half a pound of l.utter and half a pound of 
lard. Cut the butter and lard through the flour (which 
Hhould be sifted) into small thin shells and mix with 
sufficient ice water to roll easily. Avoid kneading it and 
use the hands as little as possible in mixing. 

PLAINER PASTRY. 

One cup of butter, one cup of lard, a little salt, cut 
through the Hour and mix lightly together. Some cooks 
mix the lard through the flour and mix with water and 
then roll out ; when in a sheet cut the batter into thm 
sheets, fold over and lay aside, cutting oi^' from the roll 
what is used for the bottom or top crust as wanted. 



% 



1 



f. 
I 



1 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

.^STRY OF GRAHAM FLOUR. 



207 



Half a pound of Graham flour, one cup of sweet cream, 
a little sait; mix and roll and bake in the usual ^vay 
with fruit between the crusts. 

RICE PIE. 

Mrs. A. S. Ewiiig. 

One quart of milk, boiled ; one small teacup of rice 
flour mixed in a little cold milk ; add to the boihng milk 
two tablespoons of butter ; when cold, add fave eggs ^-ell 
beaten; sweeten to taste ; flavour with vanilla, and bake. 

FRUIT PIE. 

Mrs. M. r. Carroll. 

Must be baked in a two-iuart tin basin ; to give it the 
vi.4it shape the l)asin must be of nearly the same size 
t.H) and bottom ; lirst make a nice pie crust ; pu a layer 
of it in the l)ottom, but not around the side o the dish , 
then a laver of chopped sour apples, two inches thick ; 
then a kyer of chopped raisins ; sprinkle sugar over 
this, pieces of butter, and any spice you like--cloves and 
nutmeg are nice; another layer of crust and ruit, etc 
until vour dish is full ; put a crust on the top ; bake 
slowly for two hours ; when done, turn bottom upwards 
on a plate, and before putting it on the table sprinkle 
tine sugar over it. It is quite as good when warmed 
again as when first baked. It takes one pound o 
raisins, ten or twelve good sized apples, two large cups 
of sugar, more if you like. 



( • 



i 




u 


1 


\\ 


'i.! 


«! 


1 : 


1 


"'i 




i 



|J::u 



'11! 5 I 



I 



I 



208 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CENTENNIAL APPLE PIE. 

Miss L. Winstanley. 

Peel one dozen and a half of good apples, take out the 
cores, cut them small, put into a stewpan that will just 
hold them with a little water, a httle cnmamon, two 
cloves, the rind of a lemon ; stew over a slow lire until 
quite soft, then sweeten them, pass ic through a hair 
sieve, add the yolk« of four eggs and one white, quarter 
of a pound of good butter, half a nutmeg, the pee of a 
lemon grated, and the juice of one lemon ; heat al well 
together"; line the inside of the pie dish with good pufl 
pa'ste; put in the pie and bake half an hour. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One quart of strained pumpkins, two quarts rich milk, 
one teaspoon of salt, and two of ginger cooked with the 
pumpkins ; six well beaten eggs, and one and a half tea- 
cups of sugar. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three cups chopped cooked meat, six cups of apples 
chopped fine ; make moist with boiled cider and sweeten 
with molasses or dark sugar; spice to your taste, using 
cloves, cinnamon, allspice, and a very little black pepper ; 
put currants and raisiup. into the pies when ready to 
bake. 



t 



\\ 



Si, 



f 



u 



I ! 



VALUABLE RECIPFS. 209 

PIE PLANT PIE. 

Mrs. Cftvson. 

One cup of stcwed pie plant, oue cup of sugar, one 
tablespoon of flour, yolk of one egg ; flavour with lemon ; 
beat all together thorougiily. Don't use pie plant too hot 
for fear it will cook the egg. Bake with just an under 
crust, and use white of an egg for frosting. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One lemon rind and juice, one cup of sugar, one cup 
of water, one tablespoon of corn starch cooked m water 
till thick, three eggs, two of whites saved for frosting, 
half cup of sugar. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. C. Belford. 

One-half pound grated cocoanut, three-quarters of a 
pound of white sugar, six ounces of butter, five eggs (the 
whites only), two tablespoonsful rose water, one tea- 
spoonful nutmeg. Cream the butter and sugar, beat 
till very light, and add the rose water ; then add the 
cocoanut with as little and light beating as possible ; 
finally whip in the stiftened whites of the eggs with a 
few skilful strokes, and bake at once in open shells. 
Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over them. These 
are very pretty and delightfui pics. 



:ii 



4^' 



210 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON PIE. 

» 

Mrs. iieorga Virtue. 

The juice ^mi rind of two l^"mon«, two cups white 
sugar, one cup of milk, two tablespoon^ful corn starch, 
,ak. 01 ten eggs ; bak. in two pies ; beat the whites of 
'eg^,* to a frotli ; beat into it a teaspoonful powdered 
sugar; pou r over the pies, and pui n the oven to brown. 

MINCE PIES. 

Miss Prissie. 

Three pounds of raisins, stone and chop them a little ; 
three pounds of currants, three pounds of sugar, three 
pounds of suet chopped very line, two ounces candied 
lemon peel, two ounces of candied orange peel, six largo 
apples grated, one ounce of cinnamon, two nutmegs 
the juice of three lemons and the rinds grated, and halt 
a pint of brandy. Excellent. 

LEMON PIE. 

Miss Prissie. 

The juice and rind of one lemon, one cup of sugar, 
the yolks of two eggs, two tablespoonsful of iiour, a tea- 
cupful of milk ; line the dish with paste ; pour in the 
custard ; bake until done ; heat the whites of the eggs ; 
add four tablespoonsful of powdered sugar, spread on 
the pie and brown lightly. 



i 



\ 



i i 






)s wliite 
1 starch, 
vbites of 
lowdercd 
,0 brown. 



11 a little ; 
;ar, three 
3 candied 
, six large 
nutmegs, 
, and half 



of sugar, 
our, a tea- 
3ur in the 

the eggs ; 
spread on 



^ 



VAIiUABLE RECirES. ^ll 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Joseph HauUer. 

One lemon, one cup of sugar, hail a cup water 'wo 
eggs, one teaspoon! il butter ; line vour pic plate with a 
nice crust ; pour in the above ; bake m a quick oven. 

ANOTHEll. 

One lemon, one tablespoonful corn stai h, butter the 
size of an egg, one teacup of sugar, one teacup water ; 
bake as al>ove. 

MOCK MINCE PIES. 

Mrs. J. King. 

Six tablespoons of rolled crackers, two cups of warm 
water, one cup of chopped raisins, one cup of whole 
raisins, half a cup of vinegar, half a cup of melted butter, 
one cup of yellow sugar, one cup of molasses, one table- 
spoon cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. 

LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. G. Wyllie. 

Half a cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups of 
sweet milk, yolks of six eggs, one tablespoon of flour, 
one good lemon ; use whites for frosting. 

^ LEMON PIE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One lemon, juice and rind grated, one c^up of^ sugar, 
yolks ot two eggs, one cup of water, one heaped table- 



"!3fK^ 



"■BBT 



w 



■i ^ j 



^Vi I ii 



212 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



spoonful of corn starch ; put all in a small tin pail, 
stand the pail in a pot of l>oiling water, and boil thick ; 
make a nice puff paste, line the plate and cook the paste 
alone ; when done a very light brown pour in your mix- 
ture ; put on the top the whites of the eggs beaten stiff 
with sugar. 

LEMON IIAISIN PIE. 

Anonymous. 

One cup of sugar, one lemon, one cup of raisins, one 
cup water : chop lemon and raisins hue, cook m the 
water- three-quarters of an hour. 

ISIINCE PIES. 

SiK pounds of l"an fresh l)eef boiled tender, when 
cold, chopped line, a pound of l)eef suet chopped fme, 
five pounds of apples chopped, two pounds of raisms, 
(seeded), two pounds currants, half a pound of citron, two 
tablespoons of cinnamon, one of grated nutmeg, one 
tabh^spoon of cloves, ..ne tablespoon of allspice, one 
tablespoon of salt, three pounds of brown sugar, a quart 
of wine, phit of brandy, and the liquor the meat is boiled 
in. Keep in a stone jar tied over with a double paper. 
It should be made, at least, the day before it is used, 
and when you make pies add a little more wme to what 
you take out for the pies, and more chopped apples. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. Higgins. 

Six pounds of beef and six pounds of apples, chopped 



1 



1 






VALUABLE REfirES. 



21B 



tin pail, 
il thick ; 
:he paste 
our mix- 
aten stiff 



isms, one 
)k in the 



ler, when 
)ped Rne, 
»f raisins, 
itron, two 
;mog, one 
ipice, one 
xr, a quart 
i is boiled 
ble paper, 
it is used, 
lie to what 
apples. 



8, chopped 



fine; four pounds of sugar, two of citron, three of raisins, 
three of currants, one of suet, two quarts of boiled cider, 
one-half cup of salt, two nutmegs, two tablespoons of 
ground cloves, two of allspice, two of cinnamon ; when 
used, enough sweet cider should be added to make the 
mixture quite moist. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Mrs. .7. M. Dnrand. 

Two pounds of raisins, one of currants, one of suet, 
two and one-half of sugar, one-quarter of citron, one- 
eighth of cinnamon, two chopped pippins, three lemons, 
two nutmegs ; wine, l)randy, and cloves to taste. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. .lames Morgan. 

Boil beef until tender itlirce pounds after it is boiled); 
when cold, chop fine ; add three pounds of fine chopped 
suet, and mix with the beef ; add a tablespoon of salt, 
six pounds of apples, four pounds of currants, six pounds 
of raisins, two pounds of citron; season to taste with 
powdered cinnamon, mace, cloves, and nutmeg ; add 
boiled cider, brandy, and wine until quite soft ; mix well 
and pack in stone jars, pour brandy over the top and 
cover tightly. This will make about five gallons ; add 
two pounds sugar. 

MOCK MINCE PIE. 

Mra. G. F. DeForest. 

One egg, three or four large crackers, or six or eight 



-' J ^i iiw>iii <»w«ww!tP»*"«^p^qw 



ijqj|f|J^i*H«; >W^^4«|Ua 



214 



THE HOME COOK LOOK. 






r 



small ones, one-licalf cup of molasses, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half cup vinegar, one- half cup strong tea, one cup 
chopped raisins, a small piece hutter, spice and salt. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs. M. A. Green. 

Boil nearly one pint of new milk ; take two small 
tahlespoons of corn starch beaten with a little milk ; to 
this add two eggs ; when the milk has ))oiled, stir this 
in slowly with one scant teacup of sugar and one-half 
cup of butter, two teaspoons of lemon. Cakes : Three 
eggs, one cup of white sugar, one and a half of flour, 
one teaspoon of baking powder, mix it in flour ; three 
tablespoons of cold water ; bake in two pie-pans in a 
quick oven ; split the cake while hot, and spread in the 
cream. 

ORANGE TART. 

Mrs. P. 

Squeeze two oranges and boil the rind tender, add 
half a teacupful of sugar and the juice and pulp of the 
fruit, an ounce of butter ; beat to a paste ; line a shal- 
low dish with light pufif paste, and lay the paste of 
orange in it. 

MINCE PIE. 

Mrs. Samuel Piatt. 

Two pounds of boiled tongue, four pounds of suet, 
six pounds of currants, three pounds of chopped apples, 
the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, 



i 



W 



^»i' iii p »j, « m w»i»»i—— mn 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



215 



p sugar, 
one cup 
salt. 



,0 small 
milk ; to 
stir this 
one-half 
i : Three 
of flour, 
ir; three 
lans in a 
ad in the 



ider, add 

p of the 

le a shal- 

paste of 



3 of suet, 
ed apples, 
yeet wine, 



^ 



a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, a quarter of 
an ounce of mace, one pound of citron, one pound of 
orange and lemon peel. 

CEANBERRY TART. 

HITS. P. 

Take Cranherries, pick and wash them in several 
waters, and put them in a dish with the juice of half a 
lemon, quarter pound of moist sugar or pounded loaf 
sugar, to a quart of Cranberries ; cover it with puff paste 
or short crust, and bake it three-quarters of an hour. 
If short crust is used, draw it from the oven five minutes ^ 
before it is done, and ice it ; return it to the oven, and 
send it to the table cold. 

CREAM PIE. 

Mrs, John Tliomas. 

One cup powdered sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
cream tartar and one-half teaspoon soda, five eggs beaten 
separately, grated rind of lemon. Cream: Set in hot 
water one-half pint of milk ; when scalding hot add one- 
half cup sugar, a little salt and one egg beaten together ; 
stir until thick, and when cool add one tablespoon 
vanilla ; put between crusts. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. r. B. Ayer. 

One crust, one small cup of dry maple sugar dissolved 
in a little water, two cups of strained squash stirred in 
the sugar ; add four eggs, two teaspoons of allspice, two 



' : «» " ' ■'-'""''' 



IRK 



216 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



cups of milk, one teaspoon of butter, and two of ginger, 
added last. This makes two pies. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Mrs. L. H. Davis. 

Two teacups of boiled squash, three-fourths teacup of 
brown sugar, three eggs, two tablespoons of molasses 
one tablespoon melted butter, one tablespoon ginger, one 
teaspoon of cinnamon, two teacups of milk, a little salt. 
Make two plate pies. 

CUSTARD PIE. 

Mrs. E. E. Marcy. 
Make a custard of the yolks of three eggs with milk, 
season to the taste ; bake it in ordinary crust ; put it in 
a brick oven, that the crust may not 1- 1^^^^' ^^^ ^^ 
soon as that is heated remove it to a place m the oven 
ofa more moderate heat, that the custard may bake 
slowly and not curdle ; when done, beat the whites to a 
froth ; add sugar and spread over the top, and return to 
the o^en to brown slightly ; small pinch of Bait added to 
a custard heightens the flavour ; a little soda m the 
crust prevents it from being heavy. Very nice. 

TORONTO PIE. 

Mrs. D. 

One cup of sugar, three eggs, one and one-half cups 
of flour, one teaspoon of baking powder; flavour to 
taste ; bake as for jelly cake in layers, and spread between 
the layers raspberry jam. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



217 



nnger, 



acup of 
Dlasses, 
rer, one 
tie salt. 



hh milk, 
put it in 
and as 
the oven 
lay bake 
lites to a 
return to 
added to 
la in the 



4 



COCOxVNUT pm. 

Mrs, Thomas. 

Grate fresh cocoanut ; to one cup of cocoanut add one 
and one-half cups of sweet milk, the yolks of four eggs, 
a little salt, and sweeten to taste ; one tablespoon of 
melted l)utter ; beat the whole five or six minutes ; beat 
the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and put over the 
top just long enough to slightly brown before taking the 
pie from the oven. If you use dessicated cocoanut, soak 
it in the milk over night. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

Mrs. Saulter. 

One and one-half pints of milk, six eggs, one cocoa- 
nut, three cups of sugar, one-lialf cup of butter ; mix 
sugar and butter, then the eggs, then the cocoanut, and 
lastly the milk. 

LEMON TABTS. 

IMrs. Edward ThoraaB. 

Mix well together the juice and grated rind of two 
lemons, two cui)S a sugar, two eggs, and the crumbs of 
sponge cake ; beat it all together uiitil smooth ; put into 
twelve patty pans lined with i)uff paste, and bake until 
the crust is done. 



half cups 
llavour to 
,d between 



16 



T 



/ '^ 






CUSTARDS, CREAMS, ETC. 



They servo up salmou, venison, and wild boars, 
Bv hundreds, dozens, and by scores, 
Hogsheads of honey, kilderkins of mustard. 
Plum iDuddings, pancakes, apple pies, and custard." 



i i 



':. 



i ^ 






EICE CUSTAKD. 

Mrs. G. M. Dickerman, 

To half a cup of rice, add one quart of milk, and a 
little salt ; steam one hour, or until quite soft ; heat the 
yolks of four eggs with four tahlespoons of white sugar ; 
add this just hefore taking oil" the rice ; stir in thoroughly, 
hut do not let it hoil any more ; flavour with vanilla. 
Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with sugar ; 
after putting the mixture into the pudding dish in 
which you serve it, put the whites over it, and let it 
slightly hrown in the oven. 

KICH CUSTARD. 

Mrs. Morgan. 

One quart of cream, the yolks of six eggs, six ounces 
of powdered white sugar, a small pinch of salt, two 
tahlespoons of brandy, one tablespoon of peach water, 
half a tablespoon of lemon brandy, an ounce of blanched 
almonds pounded to a paste ; mix the cream with the 
Busar, and the volks of the eggs well beaten , scald them 






c. 



d." 



V, and a 

beat the 

tc sugar ; 

)roughly, 

vanilla, 
h sugar; 

dish in 
nd let it 



IX ounces 
salt, two 
3h water, 
blanched 
■vnth the 
cald them 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



219 



together in a tin ]iail in l)oiling water, stirring all the 
time until sulHcicntlv thick : when cool, add the other 
ingredients, and pour into custard cups. 

BOILED CUSTAHD. 

Mrs. T. KingsfoiJ. 

Two tablespoons of the corn starch to one quart of 
milk ; mix the corn starch with a small quantity of the 
milk and flavour it ; beat up two eggs. Ilcat the re- 
mainder of the milk to near boiling, then add the mixed 
corn starch, the eggs, four tablespoons of sugar, a little 
butter and salt. Boil it two minutes, stirring briskly. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Mrs. R. M. rickeriii!^'. * 

One quart milk, eight eggs, one-half pound of sugar ; 
beat to a good froth the eggs and sugar. Put the milk 
in a tin pail and set it in boiling water ; pour in the 
eggs and sugar and stir it until it thickens. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Mrs. Bt'iidelari. 

One teacup of tapioca, soaked over night in a pint of 
milk ; in the morning add one quart more, and when 
boiled till the tapioca is clear add the yolks of three 
eggs, well beaten, with one cup of sugar. Beat the 
whites to a foam. Sweeten and flavour the whole with 
vanilla. This pudding is better eaten cold. 



( 



220 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



h 



"r 




CHOCOLATE CUSTAED. 

Mrs. Iliggins. 

Throe ounces Baker's chocolate, three pints milk, four 
tahlespoons white sugar, two tahlespoons brown sugar ; 
prepare a soft custard of the milk and the yolks of hve 
eggs and the white of one ; dissolve the chocolate rn a 
cup of warm milk and heat it to boiling point ; when 
cool, sweeten it with brown sugar and flavour with the 
extract of vrnilla ; pour the whole into a dish and cover 
with the whites of the live eggs beaten stiff, with a little 
sugar ; brown slightly and serve cold. 

SAGO CUSTAKD. 

C. D. Adams. 

Three tablespoons sago boiled in a little water till 
clear ; add one quart of milk, let it come to a boil, then 
add live or six well-beaten eggs and sugar to taste. Fut 
the vessel containing the custard in a kettle of boilmg 
^vater ; stir it briskly till it thickens a little ; flavour 
with vanilla after it is partly cool. 

APPLE CUSTARD. 

Mrs. F. B. Orr. 

Pare, core, and quarter one dozen tart apples, strew 
into it the grated rind of one lemon ; stew until tender 
in very little water ; then mash smooth with back ot a 
spoon. To one and a half pints of strained apple, add 

)Ounds sugar ; leave it until cold ; 



one and a quarter p 



beat six eggs 



lioht and stir alternately into one quar 



tof 






VALUABLE RECIPES. 



221 



lilk, four 
1 sugar ; 
■■i of iive 
ate in a 
t ; when 
with the 
nil cover 
h a little 



vater till 
boil, then 
sto. Put 
f hoiling 
: flavour 



lies, strew 
til tender 
back of a 
ipple, add 
util cold ; 
le quart of 



f 



* 



milk with the apples ; put into cups or deep dish, and 
bake twenty minutes ; to be eaten cold. 

APPLE CUSTAEDS. 

Ills. C. M. Dickcnnnn. 

Take six tart apples, pare and quarter them, put into 
a baking dish with one cup water ; cook until tender, 
but not to pieces, then turn them into a pudding dish 
and sprinkle sugar over to cover them ; beat eight eggs 
with sugar, and mix with them three pints of milk, a 
little nutmeg ; turn it over the apples, and bake twenty- 
five minutes. 

CARAMEL CUSTAPD. 

Mrs. Perry Smith. 

One quart of milk, one cup of white sugar, one cup 
of brown sugar, two tablespoons corn starch, four eggs 
and a pinch of salt and vanilla. Place the milk with 
the white sugar and salt in a farina kettle over the lire ; 
if you have not such a kettle, a tin pail set in a pot of 
hot water will answer the purpose ; l)eat the eggs with- 
out separating in a large bowl, and wet the corn starch 
with a little cold milk ; put the brown sugar in a tin 
pan and set over the lire; stir until it is thoroughly 
scorched, ])ut not burned ; then turn the scakV^g milk 
on the eggs ; put the mixture in the kettle aga.n over 
the lire ; stir in the corn starch until it thickens ; lastly, 
stir in the scorched sugar and remove from the fire ; 
then add a generous amount of vanilla. The scorched 
sugar falls into the custard in strings, but these will 



.s. 



IlicU 



^■1 


^r 


i 


^^■l;': 


'J 


^m^^i'fi' 


y' 


; ■ 




I if 


i 




S 11 ■ 


]■ 




Ir' 






ik ;^ 


¥ 



222 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

difisolvc with visoiirous stirring after removal from the 
fire. Turn into custard glasses and serve cold. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mrs. K. E. Marcy. 

Onu-half package gelatine, one pint of water ; soak 
twenty minutes ; add two cups of sugar ; set it on the 
stove" to come to a hoW ; wlien nearly cold, add the 
whiti's of four eggs beaten stiff, the juice and rmd of 
two lemons, and pour into a mould ; turn over the form 
ALake a custard of the yolks of four eggs, a quart ot 
milk, and a small tahlespoonful of corn starch ; s^.•eet- 
en to taste. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

Mrs. E. S. Miller. 

One tumbler of currant jelly, one pint of powdei-ed 
sugar, five eggs ; beat the whites of the eggs very stiff 
before putting in the jelly ; then beat well ; add the 
sugar gradually and beat it perfectly stiff ; chill it 
thoroughly on the ice and serve in a glass di^a half 
filled with cold milk ; cover it with the island m spoons- 
ful standing in peaks. It is to be eaten with cream. 

APPLE FLOAT. 

Mrs, O. L. Parker. 

To one quart of apples, partially stewed and well 
mashed, put the whites oi three eggs well beaten, and 
four heaping tablespooons of loaf sugar ; beat them to- 



om the 



r ; soak 
t on the 
add the 

rind of 
he form, 
(juart of 

; sweet- 



powdered 
very stiff 

add the 
; chill it 

diisii half 
in spoons- 
iream. 



and well 

eaten, and 
them to- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. "^^^ 

gether tor fifteen minutes, and eat with rich m.lk and 
nutmeg. 

WHIPPED CKExVM. 

Mix one pint of cream with nine tablespoons of fine 

Bu'ar and one gill of wine in a large bowl ; wh^. these 

V Ui the cream dasher, and a. the froth rises, skim into 

Uie disb in which it is to be served. Fill the dish full 

to the top, and ornament with kisses or macaroons. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Boil one ounce of (-elatine in one pint of new milk 
until dissolved ; add four eggs Nvell bea en and half a 
pound of sugar ; stir it over the fire until the eggs th.ek_ 
en ■ take it off the fire and add a full wme-glass of peaeft 
xvater; and when cool pour it into moulds ; serve with 
cream. 

VELVET CREAM. 

Mrs. it. Harris. 

Nearly a box of gelatine, .oaked over night in a cup 
of wine f melt it over the fire, with the sugar ; when i 
is warm put in a quart of cream or new m.lk and strain 
tt Tnto moulds. If the wine is too hot, it wiU curdle the 

™"'' CHOCOLATE CBEAM. 

Mrs. Spruaiice. 

Soak one box of Coxe's English gelatine (in cold water 
sufficient to cover) one hour ; one quart oi milK Doiied ; 



!„■ 



I 



-tivi'l 



P.i' 



224 



THK HOMK COOK HOOK. 






?!i 



Ll^: 



h 



scrape two ounces of French chocolate, mix with eight 
Hpoonfi of white suf^ar ; moisten this witli three spoons of 
the boilin^ milk ; then stir in th(' gelatine and the yolks 
of ten well-beaten eggs ; stir three minutes briskly ; take 
off, strain, and add two teaspoons of vanilla ; strain and 
put in moulds to cool. Serve with sugar and cream. 

CHOCOLATE Cl^EAlM. 

Mrs . King. 

Half a cake of chocolate dissolved in a, little hot water; 
put in a cup of milk, and when it boils have live eggs 
well beaten and mixed with two cups of milk: pour the 
hot chocolate into the eggs and milk ;• stir w( 11 and boil 
all together for a few minutes ; sweeten to your taste. 
To be eaten cold. 

COCOANUT rUFFS. 

The whites of three eggs, one cup of ground sugar, 
one teaspoonful of the extract of vanilla, one table- 
spoonful of corr starch, two cups of .lessicated cocoa- 
nut. Beat the whites well.- then add the sugar, and 
beat over steam, until a crust forms on the bottom and 
sides of the dish. Take it o& the steam, add the other 
ingredients and drop in small pieces on buttered tins. 
Bake rather quickly to a light brown. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Miss E. Winstanley. 

One cup of grated chocolate, three cups of sug.ar, one 
cup of molasses, one cup of milk, and a small piece of 



VALUAJJLt: KECIPES. 225 

l)utter. Boil for about twenty minutes, stirring all the 
time ; pour into a buttered pan ; when nearly cold mark 
off in Hmall squares. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Soak half an ounee of Coxe's gelatine in a little cold 
water half an hour ; then place it overboiling water and 
add one gill of strong coffee and one gill of sugar ; 
when the gelatine is well dissolved, take from the tire ; 
stir in three gills of cold cream and strain into y.nir 
mould. Be sure that this lias been previously wet with 
cold water. 



> 

■t 



ORANGE CREAM. 

Make according to above rule, adding one gill of 
orange juice and the grated rind of one orange which 
has been previously soaked in the orange juice while the 
gelatine is dissolving over the boiling water, and the 
beaten yolks of two eggs when you take off, and quite 
hot. 

APPLE CREAM. 

Mrs. Mann, 

One cup thick cream, one cup sugar, beat till very 
smooth; then beat the whites of two eggs, and add; 
stew apples in water till soft; take them from the water 
with a fork ; steam them if you prefer. Pour the cream 
over the apples when cold. 



_^ -.li'mff B.1iyn* *6g.tya . !>-■■ " .--i-M^A ;;■ 



38 



226 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

FRUIT CREAMS. 



These consist of a rich cream ; bhinc mange poured 
over fruit and set on ice to chill. 

PISTACHIO AND ALMOND CREAMS. 
Make a nice vanilla ice-cream ; have ready pistachio 
nuts ^vhich have been prepared by pouring boihng ^vater 
over'them and letting them stand in it a few moments ; 
then strip off the skins and pound to a paste m a mor- 
tar, and miK with the cream. Freeze. 

ITALIAN CREAM. 

E. V. Case. 

Take one quart of cream, one pint of milk sweetened 
very sweet, and highly seasoned with sherry wme and 
vanilla; beat it with a ^vhip dasher, and Remove the 
froth as it rises until it is all converted mto troth Ha^e 
ready one box of Coxe's sparkling gelatine dissolved in 
a Utile warm water ; set your frothed cream into a tub 
of ice ; pour the gelatine into it, and stir cons antly 
until it thickens, then pour into moulds, and set m a 
cool iilace. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Two tablespoons of tapioca dissolved very soft, three 
volks of eggs beaten and sweetened to the taste ; boil 
Te ' rf of milk, when cool stir in the tapioca and 
flavour ; beat the whites very Ught and mix all together ; 
let boil ten minutes, pour into moulds. 



) 



poll 



:ed 



stachio 

ig water 

ments ; 

a mor- 



^^eetened 
;ine and 
lOve the 
h. Have 
lolved in 
to a tub 
)nstantly 
set in a 



oft, three 
Lste ; boil 
)ioca and 
together ; 



} 



VALUABLE RECIPES. "^''^'^ 

TAPIOCA MERINGUE. 

Mrs. Spruance. 

One teacup of tapioca soaked in one and a half pints 
of warm water three hours ; peel and core eight tart 
apples ; fill apples with sugar, grating a little nutmeg 
or moistening with wine. One hour before needed pour 
the tapioca over the apples and bake, servnig in the 
dish baked in. The additicm of the whites of four well- 
beaten eggs spread over the top and browned shghtly 
improves it. 

LEMON SPONGE. 

MrB. Lambkin. 

Two ounces of gelatine ; pour over one pint of cold 
water ; let it stand fifteen minutes ; add half a pint of 
boiling water, three-quarters of a pound of white sugar, 
and the juice of four lemons. When the gelatine is cold, 
before it begins to get firm, add the well beaten whites 
of three eggs ; beat the whole lifteen minutes, until the 
mixture is quite white, and begins to thicken; then put 
in a mould hrst wet in cold water. 

SNOW SOUFFLE. 

Mis. J. Louis Harris. 

Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth ; dissolve 
one-half box of gelatine in a little more than a pint of 
hot water, two cups of sugar, and the juice of two 
b.mions : when this is dissolved and cooled, stir into it 
the eggs you have beaten, beat the whole together until 




228 THK HOME COOK book, 

it is white and stiff; mould and pour around it soft 
custard. 



I- 



ft 



1^ .!. 



«ii.Z! ! 



CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. A. M. (lihbs. 

Whip one quart ritdi croani to a stiff froth, and drain 
well on a nice sieve. To one scant pint of milk add six 
eg^'s beaten very light ; make very sweet ; tiavonr high 
with vanilla. Cook over hot water till it is a thiek cus- 
tard. Soak one full ounce Coxe's gelatine in a very little 
water, and warm over hot water. When the custard is 
very cold, heat in lightly the gelatine and the whipped 
cream. Line the bottom of your mould with buttered 
paper, the sides with sponge cake or lady-tingers fasten- 
ed together with the white of an egg. Fill with the 
cream, put in a cold place or in summer on ice. To 
turn out dip the mould for a moment in hot water. In 
draining the whipped cream, all that drips through can 
be re whipped. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

Take one quart of thin cream, sweeten and flavour ; 
whip the cream until all in froth; then take half box of 
gelatine, put in as little cold water as possible to soak, 
and set on the stove to melt ; have the gelatine cool be- 
fore putting into the cream ; have a dish already lined 
with cake or lady-fingers, pour the cream into it and set 
on ice until ready for use. 



t 



t 



I 



VALUABLE IlECIPES. 220 

CHARLOTTE 

Mrs. W. W. Kimball. 

One quart rich cream, three tablespoons of Madeira 
wine, whites of two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, one tea- 
cup of powdered sugar, half a box of gelatine dissolved 
in half a cup of sweet milk ; flavour with vanilla ; beat 
the cream and wine together; add the eggs, then the 
sugar, and last, the gelatine. 

RICE CHARLOTTE. 

E. M. Walker. 

Blanch one-fourth pound of rice, and boil in one (piart 
of milk, with a little sugar and vanilla ; when soft, let it 
cool, and then mix it with one pint of whipped cream ; 
oil a mould and fill with a layer of rice and preserves, or 
marmalade, alternately; let it stand until stifl', and then 
turn it out. 

BLANC MANGE— ARROWROOT. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Boil one quart of milk, reserving one gill to wet up 
your arrowroot with ; when it boils up, stir in two and a 
half tablespoons of arrowroot, and after a few minutes 
add one tablespoon crushed sugar, one tablespoon rose- 
water, and a little salt; pour into moulds. 

CHOCOLATE MANGE. 

H. 1). F. 
One box of Coxe's gelatine dissolved in a pint of cold 



r 



230 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



M 




.•ater. tluTO pints of milk; put over to l.o.l «.tl. mo 
CUP of French chocolate ; when the nnlk ,8 ,,ust scaiaed, 
Tour in the fielatin.. ; Mveef.n to taste ; hod ine n,m- 
nte" then take fronr the tire, Havour with van.Ua, pour 
tato mouhls. When col,l, serv,- with pow.h.-e.l sugar 
and cream. 

MONT JU.ANC. 

Mis. V. 15. (»iT. 

Oue-thirrt hox ot gelatine, «rat.a rin.l of two lemons 
two cups of susar, one phit ,.1 ho.hng water. belo>x 
e mixture Rets stiff, stir in the whites of hve eggs 
t::ta s'tiff froth. Eat w.th cnstara, hoiled^made 
with yolks ot eggs ami one pint ol UnUn~i nnlk. bmet- 
en to'taste, flavour with vanilla. Excellent. 
A SOIFLE DESSERT. 

A. S. EwillK. 

Pat a teacup of tapioca into suBicient cohl J'^'^^^ 
uvtilthe lumps hecome almost transparent squeeze 

llfce them into it, sweeten or not, then eat when cold, 
with cream aud sii^ar. 

JELLIED GIUPEB. 

Mrs. A. M. Lewis. 

AVery delicate dish is made of one-third of a cup of 
riee two cups of grapes, halt a cup of Nvater, and two 
spo;ns of sugar. Sprh,kle the ^^"'^ ^'^ f^^ ^^^^ 
the grapes, while placing them m a deep dish . pour on 



\ 



li one 
aided, 
e min- 
i, pour 
sugar 



r 



h 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



231 



the water, cover close and simmer two hours slowly ni 
the oven. Serve cream as sauce, or cold as pudding. 
If served warm as pudding, increase slightly the pro- 
portion of rice and sugar. 



emons, 

Before 

^e eggs 

d, made 

Sweet- 



ter ; boil 

squeeze 

ire, then 

len cold, 



a cup of 

and two 

tr among 

pour on 



•dH 



ICES. 






(Hittenng b'MutreB of coloured ico, 
Sweeteueil wiili syrups, tinctured with spice ; 
Creams aiid cordials and sugared dates; 
Syrian applts, Othmanec quinces, 
Limes and citrons and apricots, 

And wines that are known to Eastern princes. 

»♦•«•** 

And all that the curious palate could wish. 
Pass in and out of the cedarn doors. 

— T. B. Aldrich. 



n 

■V i (f 

i if 




Use one part of coarse table salt to two parts of ice 
broken the size of a walnut. This should be firmly 
packed around the cream pail to the height of the freezer. 
For three pints of cream, one and a half pints of Avatcr 
should be poured over the ice in the freezer, and f(jr 
every additional quart of cream one pint of water should 
be added to the ice after packing. When there is no 
ice-cream freezer convenient, ices may be frozen by put- 
ting the cream to be frozen in a tin pail with a close 
cover. This ice and salt for packing may be put in a 
larger pail and packed firmly around the pail of cream 
to be frozen. Let this stand to chill for twenty or thirty 
minutes, then remove the cover and stir the freezing 
mixture within until stiff. Then re-pack, cover the 
whole closely with a woollen cloth or carpet and leave 
for an hour or two in a cool place. 



.^j 



^'^^W' 






Valuable recipks. 
CUERANT ICE. 



233 



One pint of cui'rant juice, one pound of sugar, and 
one pint of water; put in freezer, and when partly 
frozen add the whites of three eggs well hcaten. 

ORANGE AND LEMON ICES. 

The rind of three oranges grated and steeped a few 
moments in a little more than a pint of water ; strain 
one pint of this on a pound of sugar and then add one 
pint of orange or lemon juice ; pour in the freezer, and 
when half frozen add the whites of four eggs beaten to 
a stitT froth. 

ORANGE ICE. 

.luice of six oranges, grated peel of three, juice of two 
lemons, one pint of sugar, one pint of water, and freeze. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Mrs. Thomas. 

Mash with a potato pounder in an earthen bowl one 
quart of strawberries with one pound of sugar, rub it 
through the colander and add one quart of sweet cream 
and freeze. Very ripe peaches or coddled apples may 
be used iilstead of strawberries. 

LEMON ICE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Six lemons, iuice of all and c[rn.ted rind of three, ons 

large sweet orange, juice and rind, one pint of water, 
16 



u 




V 



i ^f 



f' 



THE IIOMR COOK BOOK. 

one pint of sugar ; squeeze out every drop of juice, and 
steep in it the rind of orange and lemons one hour, strain, 
squeezing the hag dry ; mix in the sugar, and then the 
water ; stir until dissolved, and freeze hy turning in a 
freezer, opening three times to l)eat all up together. 
Many prefer it to ice cream. 

OIUNGE ICE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Six oranges, juice of all, and grated peel of three, two 
lemons, the juice only, one pint of sugar, dissolved in 
one pint of water; prepare and freeze as you would 
lemon ice. 

ICE CREAM. 

M. 

One pint milk, yolks of two eggs, six ounces sugar, one 
tablespoon corn starch ; scald until it thickens ; when 
cool, add one pint whipped cream and the whites of two 
eggs, beaten stiff ; sweeten, flavour, and freeze. 



ICE CREAM. 



Mrs. W. H, Oviugton. 



Scald one quart of milk with one sheet of isinglass 
(broken), and a vanilla bean; when cool, strain, mix 
with one pint of cream whipped to a froth ; sweeten to 
taste and freeze. 






VALUABLE RECIPES. 235 

A NICE DESSERT DISH. 

Mrs. J. Thorney. 

Fill a qiiar;. I jwl with alternate layers of thinly sliced 
apples and su^^ar, and add half p cup of water, covered 
with a saucer, held in place by a weight ; hake nlowly 
three hours; let it stand until coin, and you will turn 
out a round tiass of clear red slices, imbedded in firm 
jelly. For an accompaniment to a dessert of blanc 
mange, rennet custard, cold rice pudding, or similar 
dishes, or even with nice bread and l)utter, there is noth- 
ing better. 

AN EXCELLENT DESSERT. 

Mrf. J. Young Scammou. 

One can or twelve large peaches, two coffeecups of 
sugar, one pint of water and the whites of three eggs ; 
break the peaches with and stir all the ingredients to- 
gether ; freeze the whole into form ; beat the eggs to a 
froth. 



im= 



II 



i 



DISHES FOR DESSERT. 



♦^ 



." 



SNOW DiUFTS. 



Mrs. S. McMiister. 



i^ 



Half a box of gelatine, one pint of boiling water, juice 
of two lemons, two cups of sugar, whites of five eggs ; 
dissolve the gelatine in the water ; a(hl the lemon and 
sugar mixed together ; put in mould to cooh when cool, 
biU not cold, take the whites of the eggs heaten stiff, 
sweetened and flavoured, and lioat them on boiling milk 
for about one minute. Now take the gelatine- from your 
mould (instantly place the mould in cold water), and 
with a fork beat up the gelatine that has become firm 
into hiU, ])ut not into li(pud. Now take your mould 
and add spoon about of the broken up jelly and the 
whites of eggs, filling up the mould with the jelly that 
became soft in spite of you ; place to cool. Serve on a 
dish surrounded by a custard made from ^lie yolks of 
the eggs and one more ; one pint of milk. 

MACEDOINE OF FEUIT. 

Wine jelly and fruit in alternate layers frozen together. 
The fruit may be of any and all sorts, and may be can- 
died or preserved, or slices of pear, apple, etc. ; may be 
boiled in syrup and then drained ; the mould must be 



€>■ 



VALUABLE RKCIPES. 



237 



filled after the jelly has liegun to form, l)ut hefore it is 
Btitf, and the iirBt layer nhould he of jelly ; when filled, 
place the mould hi salt and ice prepared as for freezing 
ice cream : cover closely, and let it remain several 
hours. 



it 



r, juice 

on and 
en cixfl, 
311 stiff, 
iig milk 
)m your 
;r), and 
me firm 
: mould 
and the 
illy that 
■ve on a 
yolks of 






together, 
he can- 
may l)e 

must be 



{ 



1^ 

i 

i ■ li 



FRUITS. 






If' 1 1 ' 



1 



:( , 



I 



" Fruit of all kinds, in coat 
RoukH, "!• smooth rind, or licarded husii, oi shfll, 
Hlio g(itluu-H trilmte large, and on the board 
Heaps with unsparing hand." 



Paradise Lost. 



Iking me berries or such cooling fruit 
As tlie kind, hospitable woods provide. 



-COWPER. 



Fruits for proHerving Hliould he carefully Belected, 
removing all that arc imperfect. They arc in the hest 
condition when not fully ripe, and as soon as possible 
after they are picked. Small fruits should not he 
allowed to stand over night after they are picked when 
they are to he preserved. Use only the finest sugar for 
preserving. When fruit is sealed in glass cans, wrap 
paper of t^wo or three thicknesses around the cans. The 
chemical action of light will affect the quality of the 
preserves when perfectly air-tight. With this precau- 
tion, glass cans are preferable to any other for preserv- 
ing fruit. One-half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
is a good rule for canned fruit, although many house- 
keepers use but one-quarter of a i>ound of sugar to a 

pound of fruit. 

An excellent rule for canning the larger fruits, as 
peaches, pears, etc., is to ])Iace them in a stt-amer over 
a kettle of boiling water, laying first a cloth ii^he hot- 



't 



VALUABLE UECIl'ES. 



23U 



E Lost. 



OOWPEB. 



Hclected, 
11 tlic best 
■i possible 
(1 not ))e 
ked when 
i sugar for 
;an8, wraj) 
cans. The 
iity of the 
is precau- 
ir lu'eserv- 
md of fruit 
my house- 
sugar to a 

fruits, as 
earner over 
in the bot- 



I 



torn of the steamer. Fill this with the fruit and cover 
tightly. Let them steam for fifteen minutes, or imtil 
they can be easily pierced with a fork, (some fruits will 
require a longer time). Make a syrup of sugar of the right 
consistency. As the fruit is steamed, drop each for a 
moment in the syrup, then place in the cans, having 
each one-half full of fruit, and then iill up with the hot 
syrup, then cover and seal. 

A SUGGESTION. 

For canning all large fruits, where no other method 
is given by contributors, the directions for canning large 
fruits are given in the recipe for Preserved Peaches. 
For canning all of the small fruit, follow the directions 
given in preserved Cherries. They are both excellent. 
If less sugar is preferred use one-quarter of a pound of 
sugar to a pound of fruit. The syrup should be pre- 
pared by adding a pint of water in your preserving ket- 
tle to each pound and a half of sugar ; let it boil up 
gently and skim until perfectly clear, when it is ready 
for the fruit. 

SUGAKED FKUITS. 

Beat the white of the eg-i ju..l enough to break, then 
dip line stems of cherries or currants into the egg and 
then into powdered sugar, and dry on a sieve. 

BAKED APPLES. 

Pare as inMuv apples as you wish of some nice variety, 
neither swet . nor sour ; core them by using an apple 



■•siimalM 



wmsiKsaii^- 



A 



i '■' 



If 



240 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



corer or a steel fork ; set them in biscuit tins and fill 
the cavities with sugar, a little butter, and some ground 
cinnamon, if you Uke ; set them in the oven and bake 
until done. 

BAKED PEARS. 

Place in a stone jar, first a layer of pears (without par- 
ing) ; then a layer of sugar, then pears, and so on until 
the jar is full. Then put in as much water as it will 
hold. Bake in oven three hours. Very nice. 



^/ 



I 



QUINCE PEE SERVE. 

Mr«. Bendelari. 

Pare, core, and quarter your fruit, then weigh it and 
allow an equal quantity of white sugar. Take the peel- 
ings and cores and put in a preserving kettle ; cover 
them with water and boil for half an hour ; then strain 
through a hair sieve and put the juice back into the 
kettle and boil the quinces in it a little at a time until 
they are tender ; lift out as they are done with a drainer 
and lay on a dish ; if the liquid seems scarce add more 
water. When all are done throw in the sugar and allow 
it to boil ten minutes before putting in the quinces ; let 
them boil until they change colour, say one hour and a 
quarter, on a sIoav fire ; while they are boiling occasion- 
ally slip a silver spoon under them to see that they do 
not burn, but on no account stir them. Have two fresh 
lemons cut in thin slices, and when the fruit is being put 
in jars lay a slice or two in each. 



] 



3 and fill 
e ground 
md bake 



lOut par- 
on until 
8 it will 



!;li it and 
the peel- 
[e ; cover 
en strain 

into the 
me until 
a drainer 
idd more 
md allow 
nces ; let 
•ur and a 
occasion- 

they do 
two fresh 
being put 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

BAKED QUINCES. 



241 



One dozen nice quinces, cored and well rubbed. Put 
in baking pans, and till the centre with pulverized sugar. 
Bake and serve cold, with or without cream. 

PRESEEYED PEACHES. 

Select peaches of fine quality and firm. If too ripe 
they are not likely to keep perfectly. Pare them and 
place them in a steamer over bo'iiug water and cover 
tightly ; an earthen plate placed in the steamer under 
the fruit will preserve the juices which afterwards may 
be strained and added to the syrup. Let them steam 
for fifteen minutes or until they can be easily pierced 
with a fork ; make a syrup of the first quality of sugar, 
and as the fruit is steamed drop each peach into the 
syrui) for a few seconds, then take out and place in the 
cans; when the cans are full, pour over the fruit the hot 
syrup and seal inmiediately. Inexperienced house-wives 
will do well to remember that the syrup should be well 
skimmed before pouring over the fruit. We prefer the 
proportions of half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
for canning, although numy excellent house-keepers use 
less. Tliis rule is excellent for all of the large fruits— 
as pears, quinces, apples, etc. 

PRESERVED PLUMS. 

Jennio June. 

Allow to every pound of fruit three-quarters of a 
pound of sugar ; put into stone jars alternate layers of 
fruit and sugar, and place the jars in a moderately warm 



-^ n't Mil 



1 


. ' 


,;! 1 


^1 





242 



THK HOME COOK BOOK. 



oven. Let them remain there until tlie oven is cool. 
If prepared at tea time let them remain until morning ; 
then strain the juice from the plums, boil and clarify it. 
Remove the fruit carefully to glass or china jars, pour 
over the hot syrup and carefully cover with egg, tissue 
paper, or thick white paper pasted, or bladder tied 
closely down. 

PRESERVED PEARS. 



w 



I' 



Mrs. Midgley. 

To six pounds of pears, four pounds of sugar, two 
coffee cups of water, the juice of two lemons, and the 
rind of one, a handful of whole ginger ; boil all together 
for twenty minutes, then put in your pears and boil till 
soft, say about a quarter of an hour ; take them out and 
boil your syrup a little longer ; then put back your fruit 
and give it a boil ; bottle whilst hot ; add a little cochi- 
neal to give them a nice colour. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Jennie June. 

Stone the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound take 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. First dissolve the 
sugar in water in the proportion of a pint of water to a 
pound and a half of sugar ; then add the fruit and let it 
boil as fast as possible for half an hour, till it begins to 
jelly. As soon as it thickens put in pots, cover with 
brandied paper, next the fruit, and then cover closely 
from the air. 



1 



■'*«*;: 



is cool, 
lorning ; 
larify it. 
,r8, pour 
g, tissue 
Ider tied 



gar, two 
and the 
together 
I boil till 
a out and 
y'our fruit 
tie cochi- 



tund take 
38olve the 
ater to a 
md let it 
begins to 
over with 
er closely 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

C/^NNED CHEIUUES. 



243 



Prepared in the same manner, allowing but half a 
pound of sugar to a pound of fruit ; after putting the 
fruit into the syrup let it scald, (not boil hard), for ten 
or fifteen minutes and then can and seal. A few of the 
cherry stones put in a muslin bag and put into the syrup 
to scald with the fruit imparts a line flavour; they 
should not bo put in the jars with the fruit. This 
method is excellent for use with all the small fruits, as 
strawberries, raspberries, and also plums. 

PRESEliVED OKANGE PEEL. 

Mrs. A. N. Arnold. 

Peel the oranges and cut the rinds into narrow shreds, 
boil till tender, change tbe water three times, stiueeze 
the juice of the orange over the sugar ; put pound to 
pound of P- ; "* and peel; boil twenty minutes all to- 
gether. 

CITRON PRESERVES. 

Carter. 

Cut the citron in thin slices, boil in water witn a small 
piece of alum until clear and tender, then rinse in cold 
water. Make a syrup of three-fourths pound of sugar 
to a pound of citron ; boil a piece of ginger in the syrup ; 
then pour the citron in and let it boil for a few minutes. 
Put in one lemon to five of the fruit. 



masm 



i 



244 THE HOME COOK BOOK- 

SPICED PEACHES OR PEARS. 

Mrs. Henry M Kuiekerbockor. 

To ten pounds ^ood mellow peaches, use five pounds 
sugar, one pint of good vinegar, and some whole cloves 
or cinnamon. Take the sugar, vinegar, and cloves, and 
let them come to a hoil, and turn over the fruit. This 
do three days in succession, and the last day put the 
fruit into the syru[), a few at a time, and let them just 
hoil up. 

CANNED PINE APPLE. 

Mrs. F. L. Bristol. 

For six pounds of fruit when cut and ready to can 
make syrup with two and a half pounds of sugar and 
nearly three pints of water ; hoil syrup five minutes and 
skim or strain if necessary ; then add the fruit, and let 
it hoil up ; have cans hot, fill and shut up as soon as 
possihle. Use the hest white sugar. As the cans cool 
keep tightening them up. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

« 

MisH Bliiikie. 

After the herries are pulled, let as many as can he put 
carefully in the preserve kettle at once, he placed on a 
platter. To each pound of fruit add three-fourths of a 
pound of sugar; let them stand two or three hours, till 
the juice is drawn from them ; pour it in the kettle and 
let it come to a hoil, and remove the scum which rises ; 
then put in the herries very carefully. As soon as they 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



245 



f 



4 



come thorouglily to a l)oiri)ut them iu warm jars, and 
seal while boiling hot. Be sure the cans are air tight. 

CANNED CURRANTS. 

Mrs Wicker. 

Put sufficient sugar to prepare them for the table, 
then boil them ten minutes and seal hot as possible. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Small ])acliet gelatine, pint and a half boiling water 
poured on the gelatine, stir until dissolved ; one teacup of 
white sugar, a little tartaric acid, the whites of three eggs 
beaten, flavour with lemon ; pour into a shape and let 
stand till next day. 

APPLE PRESERVE, GOOD. 

E. Pcrnet. 

Weigh equal quantities of good brown sugar and 
apples, peel, core, and cut the apples into small square 
pieces ; make a syrup of one pint of water to three 
pounds of sugar, boil until pretty thick, then add the 
apples, the grated peel of a lemon or two, a little whole 
white ginger (if liked) ; boil until the apples are clear 
and begin to fall, then it Y/ill be done. 

TO CAN TOMATOES. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

-Wash your tomatoes and cut out any places that are 



i 






CS 



up 



If- 



'I 



I'/ 



246 



THE IIOMK COOK BOOK. 



green or imperfect ; then cut them up and put over to 
cook with a little salt ; boil them till perfectly soft ; then 
strain them through a colander ; turn them back to cook, 
and when they have come to boiling heat, pour them 
into stone jugs (one or two gallon jugs, as you prefer). 
They will keep a day or two in winter if all are not used 
at a time; put the cork in, and have some canning 
cement hot and pour over the cork. The jug must, of 
course, be hot, when the tomatoes are poured in. 

CRANBEaEY SAUCE. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One quart cranberries, one quart water, one quart 
sugar, stew slowly. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

Mrs. D. S. Muuger. 

Beat six eggs, one-fourth pound butter, one pound 
sugar, the rind and juice of three lemons ; mix together 
and set in a pan of hot water to cook. Very nice for 
tarts, or to eat with bread. 

PEACH BUTTER. 

Mrs. M. L. 

Take pound for pound of peaches and sugar ; cook 
peaches alone until they become soft, then put in one- 
half the sugar, and stir for one-half hour; then the 
remainder of sugar, and stir an hour and a half. Season 
with cloves and cinnamon. 



^ 



1 



k 



i r* 



247 

VALUABLE RECIPES. 

TOMATO BUTTER. 

Mrs. Johnson. 

may not burn. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. H. Brown. 

Take "reen apiilea that ^vUl cook nicely ; -luartcr 
tJelu. vvithoit paring, put them in a pan or ket o 
and cover over with water, and keep them covered ; let 
then boU slowly until entirely done ; then pn m a ag 
and drain (not squeeze) the-.. Put a 1'°""^ «f .f f 
tugar to a pint of juice. This is very eas.ly made m the 
winter ; is best made day before using. 

APPLE JELLY FOR CAKE. 

Mrs. i". B. Ajar. 
Grate one large or two small apples, the rind and juice 
of !ne lemon; add one cup sugar ; boil three mmut.s. 

DAMSON CHEESE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Twelve pounds of damsons ; put them into the oven ; 
when they are soft take out the stones crack them, and 
Ihn blanch the kernels, then add three and a haW 

])oil about three hourH ; wci tue 



pounds of lump sugar 



248 



THE HOME COOK DOOK. 






i:i 



11 i 



■|?! 



kl 



moulds before using them ; weigh the damsons before 
they are pat into the oven. 

APPLE JELLY. 

MisH Beaty. 

Boil tart peeled apples in a little water till glutinous, 
strain out the juice, and put a pound of white sugar to 
a pint of juice. Flavour to taste ; boil till a good 
jelly, then put into moulds. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Take seven pounds of ripe apples — such as are excel- 
lent boilers — and if the rind is red the colon*' of the jelly 
will be beautifully tinged ; cut the fruit in pieces, with- 
out peeling or extracting the cores, and only removing 
the stalks and the eyes ; add two quarts of water, and 
boil or bake till the whole is a pulp, which pour into a 
jelly bag, placed near the fire, (as the pulp thickens in 
cooling); add eight ounces of white or loaf sugar to each 
pint of the liquid, with the juice of a small lemOn, and 
the peel cut very thin ; boil to a tolerably thick- jelly, 
which may be ascertained by trying a little on a plate ; 
strain again through the bag or a piece of muslin, and 
run into moulds or pots. When cold lay a piece of tissue 
paper over, and put by in a dry place. This jelly will 
keep two or three years. 

TO MAKE AN ORNAMENTAL PYRAMID FOR A 

TABLE. 

Miss Beaty. 
Boil loaf sugar as for candy, and rub it over a stiff 



f 






f 



I 



VALUADLK IIKCIPKS. 



•249 



well buttered ; Bet it 0,1 a table, and begin at the bot- 

:r,r«u';b::u . 00..™!. ^1.., ^^^ 

the pasteboard for.n and se', the pyra.nMl u ' « ;;» ™ 
of the table «ith a s.nall Int of wax candle burmng^ith 
it, and it looks very beaut'lul. 

CUSTARD JELLY. 

Make a boiled custard of one -imu-t of t-^ 'nilMhree 
e.„, one teaoui, of su^ar, two teaspoons of vauiUa , 
» a balf box of gelatine in as little water as wdl 
cZv t, and when well dissolved add the ju.ee ot o «, 
emon »d two glasses of sherry ; sUr the e,,sU d «el 
while pouring in this mixture; strain thiough a sR%t 
Mo a niould. Serve with whipped ereain, flavoured 
with wine and vanilla, or with ricli cream. 

SNOW .JELLY. 

A naoUane of gelatine soaked till qnite soft in a cup of 
coUirter.°then'add about a .piart of ^"f^^;^^^^ 
till .niite dissolved; add juice and grated nnd of thice 
Imons; sugar to taste; strain through mus in, and set 

la cold place. When ,uite stiff, beat m the whi os o 
four well-beaten eggs, and then pour mto moulds. It 

wiU make about a ,uart and a half. This is very »u^- 

able for invalids who cannot take wine, also an exceed 

ingly ornamental jelly. 
17 



i-a.*.!. — 






'^'^0 TIIK HO.MK COOK BOOK. 

OIIANGE MARMALADE. 

Mrs. Midgley, 

Nine Sevilk- oranges, three sweet oranges, four lemons, 
cut across the grain as linely as possible ; place in a 
deep dish with four (juarts of water; let it stand thirty- 
six hours ; boil two hours, (water as well); then add 
(;iglit pounds of cruslud sugar ; boil one hour longer, or 
until you think it will ji'lly ; the addition of a wineglasbful 
of s]»irits when nearly l)oikd has the etfect of causing all 
impurities to rise to the surface, and clarifies the jelly. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Mr.« N. P. luglehart. 

Take juicy apples, (Ramboes, if possible); take the 
stem and top off, and wash them nicely, then cut up 
into quarters and put cold water upon them, just enough 
to cover them : boil them soft, afterward strain them 
through a jelly bag ; then take two pints at a time with 
two pounds of crushed sugar ; boil twenty minutes, then 
do the same with the other juice ; to be economical, pare 
and core the apples ; don't strain so close, but that you 
can, by adding a little more waier, use the apples for 
sauce or pies. . 

CRAB APPLE JELLY AND JAM. 

Mrs. Lucllam. 

Remove stems and blossoms from the apples; let 
them scald, and pour off the first water: nextiiut thorn 
in plenty of water and let them cook slowly ; as they 



I 
1 



i 



ABLE llECIPES. 



251 



V lemons, 
ice in a 
[1 tliirty- 
lun add 
:)nger, or 
oghisbful 
using all 
he jelly. 



;ake the 
1 cut up 
t enough 
du them 
imo with 
tes, then 
3al, pare 
ihat 30U 
pies for 



•les; let 

lit thcni 

as they 



^ 



1 

1 



to soften dip off tlie juice for jelly, straining it 
thnvwfch Hanni'l. Uno pound of juice to a pound of 
sugar for jelly. Next add more water ; let apples stew 
very soft ; strain through a sieve, which takes out cores 
and seeds ; to this pulp add brown sugar, pound for 
pound ; it needs careful cooking and stirring. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Mrs. \V. (tuthrie. 

One paper of gelatine ; let it stand one hour in warm 
water ; then add one quart of boiling water, the juice of 
three or four lemons, and a pint and a half of sugar. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

Mrs. J. r. Hoit. 

Soak one package of gelatine m one-half pint cold 
water for one hour ; add the juice of three lemons, two 
pounds sugar and one quart boiling water ; when all are 
dissolved add one pint of orange juice; strain carefully 
and set on ice till ready for use ; eight oranges usually 
make it. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. J. P. Hoit. 

Jam and strain the currants ; to each pint of juice add 
one pound sugar; boil the juice fifteen minutes without 
sugar, and the same time after it is in ; strain into glasses. 

When pouring hot fruit or jelly in cans or glasses, wring 
a towel out of cold water, lay it on a table, and set the 
cold cans upon it, p- ug the boiling fruit into them. 



-Sat* 



iiiiBffiriMtii 



252 



THE HOME COOK ROOK. 



f m 



ii 



„ V, i ! 

Hi'. 



\ * 

• ! 



Care should be taken not to set two cans ou the same 
spot without lirst wotting the towel. 

GELATINE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Take a -oo.l packt-t of gelatine, the juice and rinds 
of three lemons, soak for one hour in a pint of cold 
water ; tl) u add three pints vA boiUiuf water, two pounds 
of white Hugarone pint of wine; strain into moulds, 
and set out to cool. 

TO TEESERVE QUINCES. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Pare, eoro, and quarter a peck of (luinces, then weigh 
them ; pnt the parings, cores, and seeds into a preserv- 
ing kettle, cover them with water, and hoil slowly for 
twenty minutes ; then strain them, put the water back, 
and put in the quinces, a few at a time, and simmer 
them g-ntly until tender, say five to ten nnnutes ; lay 
them on a dish ; when all are done add the sugar and a 
little warm water. Let them boil for a few mniutes un- 
til clear, then put in all the quinces and boil them 
without stirring until they become a clear garnet, which 
will be about one hour. Have ready two lemons sliced 
thin and seeds taken out ; put them in a few minutes 
before taking off the fire. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mrs. C. Wheeler. 

Take the currants when they first ripen ; pick them 



♦ 



t 



VALUABLE RECirES. 



253 



e same 



1 rinds 
of cold 
pounds 
noulds, 



n weigh 
preserv- 
)wly for 
iv back, 
simmer 
ten ; lay 
ar and a 
utes un- 
3il them 
st, which 
ns sliced 
minutes 



k 



i 



ick them 



from the stems and put them on the stove in a stone 
jar, bruising thorn with a wooden spoon ; then wlu n 
warm, squeeze through a coarse cloth or flannel, and 
put the juice on in a new tin pan or porcelain kettle ; 
one quart of juice requires two pounds of sugar, or a 
pound to a pint ; boil fifteen minutes ; to be a nice 
ook)ur the currants should not come in contact with 
iron spoons or tin dishes, unless new and bright ; should 
be made quickly. It never fails to jelly good if the cur- 
rants are not too ripe. The same method for jam, only 
do not strain the currants, but mash them well. Cur- 
rants should not bo dead ripe for jelly or jam. 

GOOSEBERRY JELLY. 

E. M. Walker. 

Boil six pounds of green uni pe goo: .-berries in six 
])ints of water, (they must be well i-oiled but not burst 
too mucin ; pour them into a hnal aad let them stand 
covered with a cloth for twenty-four hours, then strain 
through a jelly bag, and to every pint of juice add one 
pound of sugar. Boil it for an hour, then skim it and 
boil for one half hour longer with a sprig of vanilla. 

TO PRESERVE CITROX. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Pare tlie citrons and cut, them into slices about an inch 
and a half thick, then into strips the same thickness,leav- 
ing them the full length of the fruit ; take out all the 
seeds with a small knife, then weigh, and to each pound 
of citron put a pound of white sugar, make a syrup; to ten 



t 



I i 



254 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



i 



">. M 



rti 



pounds put a pint of water, and simmer gently for 
twenty minutes ; then put in the citron and boil for one 
hour /or until tender ; before taking off the fire put m 
two lemons, sliced thin, seeds taken out, and two ounces 
of root ginger ; do not let them boil long after the lemon 
and gingor°are put in ; do not stir them while boihng. 
The above is very tine if carefully attended to. 

APvTIFICIAL HONEY. 

Mis. Olipliant. 

Mix together ten pounds white sugar, two pounds 
clear bee^' honey, one quart of hot water, half an ounce 
of cream tartar ; when cool flavour with two or three 
drops otto roses and sprinkle in a handful of clear yellow 
honey comb broken up. This will deceive the ])est 
judges, and is perfectly healthy. 

CORN STAllCH JELLY. 

One quart boiling water ; wet five tablespoons corn 
starch, one teacup sugar, a pinch of salt, with cold water, 
and one teaspoon lemon or vanilla extract for flavour- 
incr • stir the mixture into the boiling water, boil live 
mhiutes, stir ail the while ; pour into cups previously 
dipped in cold water. This quantity will fill six or seven 
cups. If wished richer, milk may be used instead of 
water. Good for invalids. 

GELATINE JELLY. 

Dissolve one ounce package of sparkling gelatine in a 
pint of cold water for one hour ; ad^ the rmd and juice 



$ 



i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



255 



^^ 



i 



of two or three Ir.rge lemons, one and a half pounds of 
sugar, then pour on this mixture one (luart of boihng 
waler, add one pint of orange or raspl)erry juice, and 
pour into mould. This flavouring is very nice, and is 
to supersede the necessity of wine, which some consider 
indispensable in the same proportion. 

RHUBAllB JAM. 

Mrs. T. W. Anderson. 

Cut into pieces about an inch long, put a pound of 
su^ar to every pound of rhubarb, and leave till morning ; 
pour the svrup from it and ])oil till thickens ; then add 
the rhubarb and boil gently fifteen minutes; put up ni 
you do currant jelly in tumblers ; it will keep good a 
year. 

GOOSEBERRY JAM. 

Take what quantity you please of red rough ripe 
gooseberries, take half the quantity of lump sugar, 
break them well, and boil them together for half an 
hour, or more, if necessary. Put into pots and cover 
with papers. 

LEMON PRESERVE FOR TARTS. 

Mrs. W. G. Davis. 

One pound of sugar, four ounces of butter, six eggs 
leaving out the whites of two, the juice and grated rind 
of three lumens ; put into a p-aucepan and stir over a 
slow fire until it becomes as thick as honey. 



fc^.y" 



r 



mH^ 



X 



256 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GRAPE JAM. 

TMrs. S. W. Chcever. 

Take your grapes, separate the skin fi'om the pulp, 
keeping thorn in separate dishes, put the pulps in your 
preserving kettle with a teacup of water ; when thor- 
oughly heated, run them through a colander to separate 
the seeds ; then put your skins with them and weigh ; to 
each pound of fruit, put three-fourths of a pound of 
su^ar ; add merely water enough to keep from burnmg; 
cook slowly three-fourths of an hour. Thi. is a delicious 
jam, and worth the trouble. 

BLACKBEERY JAM. 





^■1* 






n 





' 



R»' 



], 



M. A. T, 

To each pound of fruit add three- fourths of a pound 
of sugar ; mash each separately ; then put together and 
hoil from one-half to three-fourths of an hour. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

To live or six pounds of fine red raspberries (not too 
ripe) add an equal (piantity of the finest quality of white 
sugar. Mash the whole well in a preserving kettle ; add 
about one quart of currant juice, (a little less will do), 
and boil gently until it jellies upon a cold plate ; then 
put into small jars : cover with brandied paper, and tie a 
thick white paper over them. Keep in a dark, dry, and 
cool place. 



i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



257 



and 



i 



QUINCE JA.M. 

Mrs. r. B. Ayer. 
Boil your fruit in as little water as possible, until soft 
enough to break easily; pour off all the water and rub 
with a spoon until entirely smooth. To one pound o 
the (luince add ten ounces of brown sugar, and boil 
twenty minutes, stirring often. 

riNE-APPLE JAM. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

Grate your pine-apple; to one pound of the apple add 
three-fourths of a pound of loaf sugar ; boil ten mnuites. 

CHANGE MAEMALADE. 

Mrs. J. Young Scammon. . 

One dozen Sevill oranges, one dozen connnon 
oran-es, one dozen lemons ; boil the oranges and lemons 
whole in water f n- live hours ; scoop out the msule re- 
moving the secMls ; cut the peel into thin slices with a 
knife, and add to every pound of pulp and peel a pint -• 
water a.nd two pounds of sugar. Boil twenty minutes 

ORANGE ^[AIUfALADE. 

^IiH. 'Win. Bracket. 

Take seven oranges and five lemons ; boil in water 
two or three liours ; throw away the water, and open tiie 
oranges and lemons, taking out the seeds ond preserv- 
ing all the pulp ami juice possible; cut tlie vmds m 
email strips or chop them, but cutting in strips is better ; 



.V 



(i 



. ? 



U i 



I 



" "''^'li 



258 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



weigh it all when this is done : then put three pounds 
of sugar to two of the pulp, and boil slowly till clear. 

SIBERIAN CRAB JELLY. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Boil a peck of crabs for two hours in as mucli water 
as win cover them, then put them into a jelly bag and 
allow to drain, (do not S(|ueeze them) ; to each pint of 
syrup, put one pound of loaf sugar, and boil for half an 
hour. Select the reddest crabs you can find and the 
jelly will be a beautiful colour. 

APPLES FOR PRESENT USE. 

Mrs. Joseph Saulter. 

Take about twenty nice snow or other good cooking 
apples, and wipe them clean, and place them in a pre- 
serving kettle with water enough to about half cover 
them ; then add two cups of sugar, half a cup of vinegar, 
and a dessertspoonful of ground cinnamon ; cover them 
down tightly, and let them simmer over a slow fire until 
the apples become soft; use them cold. 



1 



i 



ikS 






CANDY. 



i 



" Sweets to the Sweet." 

In order to understand the secret of candy making, it 
will be necessary to understand the action of heat upon 
sugar. The first step in this process is the reduction of 
sugar to a syrap, which is done by adding water to 
sugar in the proportion of a pint and a half of water to 
three and a half pounds of sugar. When this boils up 
in the kettle we have simple syrup. A few more min- 
utes of ])oiling, reduces the water which holds the sugar 
in a perfect solution. At this stage, if the syrup is al- 
lowed to cool, the candy crystallizes on the sides of the 
dish, and we have rock candy. If, inscead of allowing 
it to cool at this point, we allow it to reach a higher de- 
gree of heat, we shall find, in putting a spoon into the 
syrup, when drawing it out a long thread of sugar 
will follow the spoon. It is to this point that confec- 
tioners bring the syrup for the greater number of can- 
dies produced. The greatest skill is required on the 
part of the operator to push the boiling sugar to this 
point without allowing it to reach the caramel state, 
when it becomes bitter and dark and is no longer fit to 
use as a confection. The proportion of sugar and water 
for candy making will be thret and one-half pounds of 
sugar to on(! and one-half pints of water. To this add 
one teaspoon of cream of tartar, which will prevent the 



I i' 



I*"' 



I 



200 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



tendency of the sugar to assume the granular condition. 
To test tho candy, drop into cold water. When this 
becomes at once hard and brittle the vessel should be at 
once removed from i' e fire. Flat sticks are fornud by 
pouring the candy into long flat pans, and when cooling 
crease the mass, which will readily break into sticks 
when cold. To nuike round stick candy, when cool 
enough to handle and while M-arm enough to mould, roll 
into sticks with the hands. To colour candies, take 
small i)ortions of the candy while cooling, and colour, 
then put together in strips and twist slightly. 

LEMON CANDY. 

Put into a ktitlc three and one-half pounds of sugar, 
one and one-haJf pini.' «'l" water, and one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar. Let i boi! until it becomes brittle 
when dropped in cold water ; wi;i n suiliciently done take 
off the fire and pour in a scaliow dish which has been 
greased with a little biittor. When this has cooled so 
that it can be handled, add a teaspoon of tartaric acid 
and the same quantity of extract of lemon, and work 
them into the mass. The acid must be fine and fr(>e 
from himps. Work Ibis in until evenly distril)uted, and 
no moi( . as it will tend to destroy the transparency of 
the candy This method may be used for i)reparing all 
other candies, as pine-apple, etc., using different 
flavours. 



^ 



a 



CREA^r CANDIES. 



Thr( e and one-half pounds of sugar to one and one- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



261 






lialf pints of water ; dissolve in the water l)efore putting 
with the sugar one-quarter of an ounce of tine white 
gum arabic, and when added to th(! sugar put in one tea- 
spoon of cream of tartar. The candy shouhl not he 
boiled quite to the brittle stage. The proper degree can 
be ascertained if, when a small skimmer is put in and 
taken out, when blowing through the holes of the skim- 
mct, the melted sugar is forced through in feathery 
lilaments ; remove from the fire at this point and rub the 
syrup against the sides of the dish with an iron spoon. 
If it is to be a chocolate candy, add two ounces of choco- 
late finely sifted and such flavouring as you prefer, 
vanilla, rose, or orange. If you ^'ish to make cocoanut 
candv, add this while soft and stir until cold. 

EVEETON TOEFEE. 

Miss Wyllie. 

Take one pound of treacle, the same quantity of moist 
sugar, half a pound of butter ; put them in a saucepan 
large enough to allow of fast boiling over a clear tiro ; 
put in the butter first, and rub it well over the bottom 
of ihe saucepan, and add the treacle and sugar, stirring 
together gently with a knife ; after it has boiled for 
al)out ten minutes ascertain if it is done by having 
ready a basin of cold water, and drop a little of the 
mixture into it from the point of a knife ; if it is 
sufficiently done, when you take it from the water 
it will be quite crisp.. Now prepare a large, shallow tin 
pan or dish rubbed all over with butter to prevent its 
adhering, and into this pour the toffee from the sauce- 
pan to get it cold, when it can be easily removed. 



mm 



I / 



r 

tf 



\ 



lit 

;4 ■ ■ 






» 



262 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CANDY. 



One pound sugar, one and a half cups water, three 
tablespoons rose water ; boil twenty minutes ; then pull. 

CANDY. 

Carrie A, 

One-lialf pound sugar, one-half cup syrup, butter the 
size of a walnut ; add little water \o the syrup, and have 
the sugar thoroughly dissolved ; to try it, drop a spoon- 
ful in a glass of ice water, if brittle, it is done. 

CANDY CARAMELS. 

Mary H. 

One pint cream, one pound sugar, one cup butter, one- 
fourth cup chocolate, one cup of molasses. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One cup of fine granulated sugar, one cup of New 
Orleans molasses, one-fourth cup of milk, a piece of 
butter the size of an egg, one cup of chocolate after it is 
cut up, if made single quantity ; if doubled, it is as well 
not to put the chocolate in till about done, and then the 
same quantity of the recipe will suffice, as it retains the 
flavour ii not cooked as much. Boil till it will stiffen in 
water ; pour into flat buttered pans to the thickness of 
half an inch. Use Baker's chocolate. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer, 

Two cups of brown sugar, one cup molasses, one cup 



f 



\ 



t 



VALUABLE RKOIPES. 



263 






chocolate grated fine, one cup boiled milk, one table- 
spoon flour ; butter the size of a large English walnut ; 
let it boil slowly and pour on flat tins to cool ; mark off 
while warm. 

CREAM CANDY. 

One pound white sugar, one wineglass vinegar, one 
tumbler water, vanilla ; boil one-half hour, and pull, if 
vou choose. 

COCOANUT DROPS. 

Mrs. P. B. Ayer. 

To one grated cocoanut, add half its weight of sugar 
and the white of one egg, cut to a stiff froth ; mix thor- 
oughly and drop on buttered white paper or tin sheets. 
Bake fifteen minutes. 

KISSES. 

E. S. P. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
half cup milk, one teaspoon cream of tartar, one-half of 
soda, flour enough to make a stiff dough ; drop on tins 
and sprinkle over with powdered sugar. Bake m a 
quick oven. 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Mrs. Benham. 

One cup molasses, two cups of sugar, one tablespoon 
vinegar, a little butter and vanilia ; boil ten minutes, 
then cool it enough to pull. 



1# 



v./ f 




2G1 



TlIK HOMK COOK BOOK. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 



.TnVui French 



Oiu> cup molasst'S, one cui) sii<^ 



■ar, one tahirspoon 



vinc'i'ar, pu'C* 



() 



f butter size of au ej^g; 



boil (but do not 



stir) until it banlens ^^lu'n (lr'>-v, 



stir in a teaspoon 
when cool, pull an( 



f soda, nv 
("I cut in slid 



] '1) colli water ; tbcn 
<.ii buttered tins ; 



Or, two cups sugar; 



Uo tablespoons vinep;ar 



boil 



,oda, cool and pull, or cut in 



boiling. 



when done add a teaspoon ,.,•.• 

s.piares without pulling: do not stir whde it is 

BUTTER SCOTCH CANDY. 

Four cups brown sugar, two of butter vinegar to t^iste^ 

\, f V on.l •! little soda; boil halt an 

two tablespoons watei, and a 1i"il s i . 

hour; drop a little in hot water, and if cnsp, it is done. 
BUTTEH SCOTCH. 

Fanny Wuggi'ncr. 

Three tablespoons of niolasse., two of sngar, two of 
^vater, one of butter ; add a pirch oi soda before taking 
up. 

SUGAli TOFFEE. 

Mis. JostpVi B. Leiiko. 

Tl,„.. pou.uls boKt l.ro«n «.fav, one ,..mud butter, 
euouUiter to .noiston He >■ gar ; b ,V; >mt>l m»i, 
«lieu dronied into coUl water, then pour into piu.-, or 
;ponplaU->a«thina» possible. It --"3' -,.h es 
to boil fast, Nvithout stirring, three-quarte. ' of an h..«r. 




% 



BREAD AND YEAS. 



.. Thcvo is scent of Syrian mynli, 
There i^ iaoensc, there 13 spice, 
There are delicate cakes and loaves, 
CakeB of meal and polypi." __q^^,,,^ Qdk. 

" But I ate naught 
Till I that lovely child of Cores s.w. 
1 large sweet round and yollosv c.ko ; bow Uien 
Colli f-m such a dish, my fnends.ubstam. 

GENEP^VL DIBECTIONS FOB HIKING BBEAD. 

1 i.v n.l ihere are three ivn- 
in tU. -»P-'*'°" : f;,l''; t V Lt and strength 

TT' rreu" Fit shou'i Eo .4.ite and ,ry crumb- 
to kneaa it Aveli. i lu 1 i,^ tlie hand. 

^-'»^"^""TuX; V rluing the quality of 

A vevy good »';"'""' '' , ^.jj.., small quan- 

,eas, .ill be to add a httlc flom to a « J ^^ ^^^ 

iitv « ttln" it in a warm place. " "> 
titj, E tun, 11 ^,^ j^ „3^_ 

or tite - vnu, * ■ " ^^"''g' ,j ,,t the sponge «itl. ^'arm 
When you mak« biead n b ^^^^.^ 

,nilk or /.er, keeping .t rn ^J^'™ ? «„„, mto 

«n "rr ''t;::rl'tt tilt; rise a.un. 
one large loaf. ^i !'> , ■^ -^i^ smaller 

and then when suft. "U) M ^,_„^,,,, ^e 

""'^•"' 'f," :t'thn";ho:srff with flour; it should 

Xarvv-- - '-• , , , ^-. „.q1I io lUUttC • — 



be as soft as it can 



be to knc - 1 ^ve^i- 



18 



% 



•iiatiiHiii 



1^^ 



I 



ii 



II f 



s ' 




266 



Tllh HOME COOK DOCK. 



or biHcuits a nice colour, wet the dough over top with 
water just before putting into the oven. Flour should 
always be sifted. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. E. S. C'hf'HcbiuiiKh. 

Put two tablespoons of hops in a muslin bag and boil 
them in three quarts of water f-r a few minutes ; have 
ready a quart of hot mashed potatoes, put in one cup of 
flour, one tablespoon of sugar, one of salt ; pour over 
the mixture the boiling hop v.ater, strain through a col- 
ander, put a pint or less of fresh baker's yeast, or two 
cakes of yeast in while it is warm, and set it in a warm 
place to rise. This yeast will keep three or four weeks, 
if set in a cool place. In making it from time to time. 
use a bowl of the same to raise the fresh with. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. Mary Ludlam. 

Six good potatoes grated raw, a little hop tea, one 
quart of boiling water, three-fourths cup of brown sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt; when cool, add yeast to rise; 
keep covered and in a cool place. 

BEST BAKING POWDER. 

Mrs. Oliphant. 

Tartaric acid, four parts, by weight; bicarbonate 
Boda. five parts, by weight ; baked flour, nine parts, by 
weight. The flour should be absolutely dry. The tar- 
taric acid and the soda must also be dry, and pulverized 



at 
tfi 
ti 
a 



'"*#:■ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



'267 



as fine as possible separately in n clean porcelain mor- 
tar. When thus prepared sift all together repeatedly 
till perfectly mixed ; then put into well-corked bottles, 
and use two teaspoonsful to each pint of flour. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. 01 pliant. 

To make one loaf : — Rye meal unsifted, half a pint ; 
Indian meal sifted, one pint ; sour milk, one pint ; mo- 
lasses, half a gill. Add a teaspoonful of Kalt, one tea- 
spoonful ol soda dissolved in a little hot water ; stir 
well, put in a greased pan, let it rise one hour, and 
steam four hours. 

SALT RISING BREAD. 

Mrs. Upharu. 

At supper time take one-fourth teaspoonful of salt, 
same of soda, and one teaspoonful of white sugar ; over 
this pour one teacupful of boiling water, and add one 
cupful of cold water ; stir in three desertspoonsful of 
Indian meal and flour enough to mnkc a thick batter, 
and cover tightly. In cold weather place it where it 
will be warm all night. In the morning place your 
bowl in a dish of water as hot as you can hold your finger 
in. Stir it often and thoroughly for an hour. Sift in a 
ten (pi art pan two-thirds full of flour, into it stir enough 
warni water, one tablespoonful of salt, and one-half tea- 
spoonful soda, to make a thin batter; then stir your 
yeast in thoroughly and place in a warm place, where 
4««„^i.+a r^f Pnlfl nir will reach it. Let it rise to the 

top of pan. 



268 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. W. C. Harris. 

Boil in separate paii.s one-half enp of hop8 and two 
potatoes : strain both liquids Imiling hot on a large cup 
of Hour, one spoon of salt, half cup of sugar, and a cup 
of yeast. Pour it into a jug and set it in a cool place. 

C400r> YEAST. 

Mrs. Packard. 

Grate six good sized potatoes (i-aw have ready a 
galbn of water in which has been well boiled three hand- 
fuls of hops ; strain through a cloth or sieve, while boil- 
ing hot, over the potatoes, stirring until well cooked, or 
the mixture thickens like starch; >idd one teacup of 
sugar, oiu'-half cu}) of salt ; when suiliciently cool, one 
cup of good yeast. Let it stand until a thick foam rises 
upon the top. Care nmst l)o taken not to bottle too 
soon, or the bottles may burst. Vsc one coffee cup of 
yeast to six loaves of bread. If kept m a cool place this 
yeast will last a long time, and housekeepers need not 
fear having sour bread. 

YEAST FOB BREAD. 

Miss L. ytngiiian. 

Grate ten oi- twelve good sized raw potatoes in a col- 
ander and let the water drip off them, and then add 
three party of a saucerful of riour to the potatoes, and 
three parts of a cup of sugar ; then boil a good pinch of 
hops twenty minutes and throw over all ; when hike- 



T 



miasn 



and two 

arge cup 

lul a cup 

place. 



ready a 
ev liand- 
lilo boil- 
okod, or 
acup of 

OOI, ODf 

am rises 
)ttle too 
3 cup of 
lacG this 
need not 



Q a col- 
len add 
)es, and 
pinch of 
in hike- 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



269 



warm add a cup of yeast, and when it rises add a table- 
spoonful of salt. This will keep three weeks. 



YEAST THAT WILL NOT SOUR. 

Mrs. .1. B. A.liims. 

-Boil two ounct's of hops in two quarts of water; put 
one cup of brown sugar in a jar ; l)oil and strain the 
hops and pour into the jar. Add one cup of flour stirred 
smooth ; let it stand in a warm kitchen till it ferments. 
Add six potatoes boiled and mashed, and one cup of salt. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. .\nna Mfirhlc. 

Two quarts of wheat bran, one of Indian bran, two 
K'allonK of boiling water ; simmer an hour or so; put in 
a handful of hops. As soon as the water boils, add one 
teacup of molasses and one tal)l(>spoon of ground ginger. 
When cold put in a teacup of yeast and cork tlghUy. 
Keep ct A. 

BREAD. 

Mrs. F,. S. Clu'Sfbrougl). 

Take four quarts of sifted flour aid a teacup of yeast, 
a pinch of salt, and wet with warm milk and water stift' 
enough to knead. Work it on the board until it re- 
quires no more flour. If made at night the bread will 
1)0 light enough to work over and put in pans early in 



m/immmm 




) Xi 



H 



Rt J 



270 




THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



the morning. This quantity will make two large loaves. 
One-third of the hmip may he taken for rolls, which can 
be made by working in butter the size of an egg, and 
setting aside to rise again: when light the second time 
make out in oblong shapes ; cover them with a cloth and 
let them rise again. As soon as they break apart bake 
in a quick oven. They will not fail to be nice if they are 
baked as soon as they seam. This is the great secret of 
white, flaky rolls. Two or three potatoes will improve 
the bread. Good housekeepers always have flour sifted 
in readiness for use, and never use it in any other way. 

BREAD. 

M. E. R. Lyndc. 

The sponge is made over night in the centre of a pan 
of flour, with milk and warm water and a cup of home- 
made hop and potato yeast to about four loaves. The 
yeast is put in when about half tlie flour and water are 
mixed, and then the remainder of the water is added 
and the sponge beaten with a wooden spoon for flfteen 
minutes and left to rise over night in a moderately warm 
place. In the morning, the bread-dough mixed and 
kneaded for half an hour, adding flour to nuike a stiff" 
dough, and left to rise in a mass. It is then made into 
small loaves, being kneaded with as little flour as 
possible, and put in pans to rise the second time, all the 
while kept moderately warm, and when liglit bake in a 
moderately hot oven. The important part of said recipe 
is the beating of the sponge flfteen minutes, as given. 



^^-bsate. 



a loaves, 
hich can 
egg, and 
ind time 
:loth and 
art bake 
they are 
secret of 
improve 
ur sifted 
ler wav. 



of a pan 
)f liome- 
es. The 
vater are 
is added 
or fifteen 
:'ly warm 
xed and 
:e a stiff 
lade into 
Hour as 
e, all the 
)ake in a 
jd recipe 
18 given. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 271 

EXCELLENT BREAD. 

Mrs. Geo. W. Pitkin. 

Four potatoes mashed line, four teaspoons of salt, two 
quarts of lukewarm milk, one-half cake compressed yeast 
dissolved in one-half cup of warm water, flour enough to 
make a plial)le dough; mould with hands well greased 
with lard ; place in pans, and when sufficiently light, it 
is ready for baking. 

YEAST. 

Mrs. John A. Frnsor. 

Monday — boil two ounces of hops in four quarts of 
waterlfor half an hour, strain it, and let it stand till cold, 
then put in a small handful of salt and half a pound of 
sugar, beat up one pound of flour, with some of the 
liquor, mix all together. On Wednesday boil and mash 
three pounds of potatoes and add to it, let it stand till 
Thursday, then bottle and it is ready for use ; shake well 
before using. To be kept warm while making, and in a 
cool place after. 

RUPEEIOE BREAD. 

Mrs. D. C. Norton. 

Scald one quart of sour milk ; when cool enough, set 
your sponge with the whey ; take about three quarts of 
flour, make a hole in the centre, put in the whey about 
a good teaspoon of salt, one teacup of good hop yeast 
(home made is best), and stir quite stiff with a Bpoon ; 
wrap in a tliick cloth so as to keep as warm as possible 



tmrnmrn 



m'ifi' 'ImTttttts; : 



272 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



: 



in cold weather, in summer it is not necessary. In the 
morninj? knead well, adding flour until stiff enough, and 
keep warm until light ; then set it in pans to rise : no 
saleratus is needed. iJread made in this way will never 
fail to be good if good flour and yeast are used. 

WHEAT BliEAD. 

Mrs. D. W. Thntchor. 

Take a pan of flour, and put in a small handful of salt 
and a bowl of soft yeast and one pint of lukewarm milk, 
mix stiff with flour and let it rise. Then knead it into 
pans, and let it rise, and if wanted very white, knead it 
down two or three times ; this makes it whiter, but loses 
its sweet taste ; bake forty-five minutes. 

RICE BREAD. 

Mrs. E. S. Chesebrough. 

Boil a teacup of rice quite soft ; while hot, add butter 
the size of an egg, one and a half pints of milk, rather 
more than one-half pint of bolted corn meal, two table- 
spoons of flour, two eggs and a little salt. Bake just 
one hour. The bread should be about two inches thick. 



\ 



/^ 



SPLENDID BROWN BREAD. 

One quart sour milk, half cup of molasses, one cup of 
lard, one tablespoon even of soda, one tablespoon salt, 
Graham flour enough to nsakf^ a ptiff battor ; juit it i?i a 
two quart tin pail and cover with the lid; suspend the 
pail by a stick through the handle in a pot of boiling 



^J^-- 



\ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



273 



/^ 



water and keep l)oiling three hours, take it off and after 
removing the lid hake in the same pail in a slow oven. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. C. 0. Smith. 

One pint of sweet milk, four tahlespoons of molasses, 
one cup of Indian meal, two cups of rye or Graham flour, 
one teaspoon of salt, one of saleratus ; mix with a spoon, 
and steam three hours, and hake half an hour or more. 

« 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. F. E. StearuR. 

One and one-half cup.s of Graham flour, two cups of 
corn meal, one-half cup of molasses, one pint of sweet 
milk, and one-half a teaspoon of soda; steam three 
hours. 

BROWN BREAD TOAST. 

Cut the hread in slices and toast. Put it in the dish 
for the table, take a bowl of thick cream, add a little 
salt, then pour over the toast ; put it in the oven until 
it heats through. 

TRAVELLER'S BREAD. 

Take Graham flour (unsifted) ; and currants, figs, 
dates or raisins may be used by chopping them ; stir 
((uite stiffly with the coldest water as l)riskly as possible, 
so iis to iiicorucu'sitc ;iir witli it : then knead in all the 
unbolted wheat Hour you can ; cut in cakes or rolls one- 
half inch thick, and bake in a quick oven. 




iOHi 



274 



THE HOME TOOK BOOK. 



I it 



STEAMED CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Jano Conger. 

Tiiko til «,'0 cups of meal, and one of rioiir, scald two 
cups of the meal with boiling water, add the other cup 
of meal and flour, two cups of sour milk, one cup 
molasses, one teaspoon of soda, a little salt. Steam 
three hours. 

OLD FASHIONED GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. Pulsifor. 

One tea cup of good yeast, one quart of warm w^ater, 
one teaspoon of salt, two cups sugar, or less, one small 
teaspoon soda, stir in enough white winter wheat Graham 
flour to make it stiff enough to drop off the spoon readily, 
grease your bread pans, put in, and set to rise, let it get 
(piite light, then l)ake in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs. Win. Blair. 

Take part of the sponge that has been prepared for 
your white bread, warm water can be added, mix it with 
Graham Hour (not too stiff). 

For Br.owN Biscuit. — Take this Graham dough, as 
prepared for bread, working in a little butter. Butter 
the size of an egg is sufficient for two dozen biscuits. 






CORN BREAD. 

Mrs. Juliet L. Straycr. 

One-half pint of buttermilk, one-half pint of sweet 
milk ; sweeten the sour milk with one-half teaspoon of 



VALUABLE RECIPEB. 



276 



soda ; beat two eggs, whites and yolks together ; pour the 
milk into the eggs, then thicken vith about nine table- 
spoons of sifted corn meal. Put the pan on the stove 
with a piece of lard the size of an egg ; when melted 
pour it in the batter ; this lar(] by stirring it will grease 
the pan to bake in ; add a teas^ ooii of salt. 

COKN BREAD. 

Mrs. Wm. H. Low. 

Two tablespoons of sugar, one tablespoon butter, two 
eggs ; stir all together, add one cup of sweet milk, three 
teaspoons of liaking powder, and three-fourths of a cup 
corn meal ; flour to make it (piite stiff. 

INDIAN I3READ. 

MrB. A. T. Hall. 

jOne pint of meal, one pint of flour, one pint of milk, 
one teacup of molasses, one teaspoon of soda, one-half 
of cream tartar ; steam two hours and bakelialf an hour. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. J. 13. Hobbh. 

For one loaf, take two cups of wh>e w-ead , porge, to 
which ;^dd two tablespoons of brown 8U';i.c, and Graham 
flour to make a stiff batter : let it rise, after which add 
Graham tiour sufficient to knead, but not very stiff; then 
put in the pan to rise and bake. 



mm 



276 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Mrs. H. P. Stowoll. 

Set sponge of fine flour, same as for wheat bread ; 
when sufficiently raised, instead of mixing with fine flour, 
mix with Graham to the usual consistency ; mould with 
fine flour a little, raise once, then it is ready for the 
oven. Sweeten with syrup or sugar, if desired, though 
I think it better without either. • 



ROLLS. 

Mrs. H. V. Waitc. 

To the quantity of light bread dough that you would 
take for twehc persons, add the white of one egg well 
l)eaten, two tablespoons of white sugar, and two table- 
spoons of butter ; work these thoroughly together ; roll 
out about half an inch thick : cut the size desired, and 
spread one with melted butter and lay another upon the 
top of it. Bake delicately, when they have risen. 






FRENCH ROLLS. 

Mrs. ThoB. Orton. 

Take one-half cup of yeast, rub a small one-half cup 
of butter in the flour (you will have to guess the 
quantity), then add the yeast, and water enough to wet; 
mix as for soda biscuit. Let it rise till morning. Roll 
in thin sheets, av.^^ cut into nquarcs, spread a very little 
butter on each, and sprinkle a little flour on to roll up. 
Put in the pan when light, bake twenty minutes. Nice. 



t 



i». \ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 



277 



Etta C. Springer. 

One quart flour, add two eggs, ono-lialf pint milk, 
tables})oon of yeast, knead it well ; rise till morning. 
Work in one ounce of butter and mould in small rolls ; 
bake immediately. 



■^ 



BROWN ROLLS. 



Mrs. Mt'laucthon Starr. 



One quart Graham flour, milk enough to make a stift* 
batter, one-third cup of yeast, and mix over night ; in 
the morning add two eggs, one large tablespoon of sugar, 
one-fourth teaspoon of soda, piece of butter half the size 
of an egg, and a little salt ; put in cups, and let stand 
twenty minutes before baking. 

FRENCH BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Lind. 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one egg, ^or the 
whites of two), half a cup of sour milk, half a teaspoon 
of soda, flour to roll ; sprinkle with sugar. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Norcross. 

One cup of hot water, two of milk, three tablespoons 
of yeast ; mix thoroughly ; after it is risen, take two- 
thirds of a cup of butter and a little sugar and mould 
it ; then let it rise, and mould it into small cakes. 




..mgUBum^' 



I 



\ 



278 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

TO MAKE STALE J. READ OR CAKE FRESH. 

>frs. M. (i. Adams. 

Plunge the loaf one instant in cold water; lay it upon 
a tin in the oven ten or fifteen minutes. Cake and rolls 
may be thus made almost as nice as if just baked, but 
must be eaten immediately. 

GRAHAM BISCriTS. 

^frx. Ikodic. 

One quart of Graham Hour, three and one-half heap- 
ing teaspoons of baking powde •. one teaspoon of salt, 
one of butter. Make into soft dough with milk. 

RYE BISCUIT. 

Mia. Laiukiti. 

Two cups rye meal, one and a half cups flour, one- 
third cup molasses, one egg, a little salt, two cups sour 
milk, two even teaspoons saleratus. 

T^rxs. 

Two coffee-cups bread dough, two eggs, one cup 
sugar, spices, a few cuiTtmtg. Mould like rusk and let 
them rise before baking. 

BUNS. 

M. 

Take one large coffee-cup of warm milk, one-quarter 
cake of yeast and salt ; make sponge ; let rise ; when 



» 



I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



279 






i; 



light work into a Jouf];h, adiliiif; oiie-lialf teacup of sugar, 
one f^gg, > utter twice the size of an egg ; let rise ; roll into 
a sheet ; butter it ; cut into strips three inches wide and 
inches long ; fold, not q 'te in the middli' : ht rise a n 
and bake; wlun in a duugh. ii rises hetorc \ou 
ready, push it down. xcellent. 

Rf'SKS. 

Mrs. I'. B. Ayer. 

To one tuml-ler of warm milk add a half gill of yeast, 
three eggs and .i coffeecup of sugar beaten together, two 
ounces of butter rubbed into Hour, of which ^y'^o ni 'v 
enough to enable you to mould it ; let it rise u\ -;ht ; 

when very light, roll u? d put on tins to raise ag fter 

which bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. 

RUSKS. 

Milk enough witi le-half cup of yeast to make a pint ; 
make a sponge and rise ; then add one and a half cups 
uf white sugar, three eggs, one-half cup of butter ; spice 
to your taste ; mould, then put in pan to rise. When 
baked, cover the tops with sugar dissolved in milk. 

SODA BISCUITS. 

M. 

To each quart of llour add one tablespoon of shorten- 
ing, one-half teaspoon of salt, and three and a half heap- 
ing teaspoons of Price's Cream Baking 1 )wder ; mix 
baking powder thoroughly through the flour, then add 
other ingredients. Do not knead, and Sake quick. To 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 


m |2.8 2.5 
ii ilM 2.2 


I.I 


r 11 M 

i m 2.0 

1/ 

«- u 
k.UU 






1.8 







1.25 



.4 



1.6 



^ APP LIED I NA^GE Inc 

^^ 16b3 Eas^ Mam Street 

■I:; Rochester, New Vork U6C>^i USA 

= v716) «82 - OJOO - Phone 

= (716) 288 - 5989 - Fox 



280 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



i- 



vit out tl,e l.abng „„„.<Ior, nsins instead t,vo hoanin^ 
.a loo„3 cream tartar and one of s„.,a. It «„„,, L; 
»iij bake m five minutes. ' 

CREAM BISCUITS. 

Afrs. A. M. Gibbs. 

bou-l'or ^''""r^ t^^W^-^^PooiiH of «oui- cream ; put in a 

01 Ola u 1 ttle salt; pour the crean. in the flour, mix 
^ott and bake m a quick oven. 

STRAWJ3ERRY SHORTCAKE. 
Make good biscuit crust ; bake in two tins of same 
shape and size; mix berries with plentv of su^ar • opcn^ 
the shortcake, butter well and place berries In I'a^e 
alternated with the crust ; have the top layer of berrL^ 
and over all put charlotte russe or whipped cream. 

ORriNGE SHORTCAKE. 

M. 
Make a nice shortcake; spread in layers of sliced 
oranges with sugar and a little cream. To be eaten with 
sweetened cream. 

APPLE SHORTCAKE. 

M. 

Season api3le sauce with butter, sugar, etc. ; make a 
nice shortcake, open and butter it and nut th. nn.lp 
sauce m layers. Serve with sweetened cream. 



t 



^^"i^inflipi iiii(pi*iiw-'*w'fHw^^ 



/ 

( 



oportions 
' heaj)ing 
?oo(l they 



put ill a 
iii-ds full 
teaspoon 
our, mix 



of same., 
ir ; open 
I layers, 
'■ berries 
m. 



f sliced 
;en with 



nake a 

1 nnnlp 

- "i-X — 



T 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Mrs. J. fi. Brown. 



281 



One quart of warm milk, one-half cup of butter one 
lor stilt batter. Bake one hour. 

CEEAM CAKES. 

Six eggs beaten separately, a half pint of sour cream 
one pint of sweet milk, one and one-half teaspoo s ^^ 
bakmg powder, flour enough to make a thin batteiTbli: 

BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Rice. 

JeZ7J^l') "": '"" """'■■ ""^^ ^Sgs. ricce hutter 
soaa, one tablespoon butter. 

TEA CAKES. 

• -Mrs. E. S. Chesebrough. 

One quart of sifted fiour, one pint sweet milk bntter 
s.ze of egg, two eggs, two teaspoons sugar, one ;f sodl 
two of cream tartar; bake in small pattl-pans. 

WHEAT GEMS. 

Mrs. W. H. Oviiiglon. 

not very stiff, two large spoons melted butter, yeast to 
ra.se them, a little soda and salt. Bake in gem Ions! 

1.9 



I 



B 



I \ 

,1 



FM 






.1 

i 

1 

1 

I 
■ 



^^^ THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Mi's. E. [{. Harmon. 

One quart of sweet milk, one cup syrup, one teaspoon 
soda, two teaspoons cream tartar, little salt ; mix cream 
tartar in Graham flour, soda in milk, and make it as 
stiff with the flour as will make it drop easily from the 
spoon into muffin rings. 

POP OVERS. 

Mrs. Andrews. 

One cup milk, one cup flour, one egg, beaten sepa- 
rately. Bake in cups, a tablespoon to each cup. 

POP OVERS. 

S. S. Pierce. 

One cup flour, one cup milk, one egg, piece butter 
size of a walnut, a little salt : to be baked in scallops in 
a very quick oven. This rule makes twelve. 

POP OVERS. 

Mrs. King. ' 

_ Three cups of milk, three cups floui, +hree eggs, a 
httle salt, one tablespoon m.elted butter put in the list 
thing ; two tablespoons to a puff. 

PUFFS. 

^Irn. Wrc'ii. 

Two eggs beaten separately, two cups milk, two cups 
of flour, butter the size of a walnut ; drop into hot irons 
and bake quickly. 



m- 



iiirii iii^iMi 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

OBAHA^r PUFFS. 

^Irs. n. S. Wlioolock. 



288 



FEITTEI^S. 

Mrs. Brown. 
One pint-sweet milk, four eggs, one ,uart flour and 
Inee teaspoons baking powder sifted together S-ve 
warm with maple syrup. ^^^ 

APPLE FETTTEBS. 
M. 

One teacup of sweet milk, one tablespoon of sweet 
liglit dough dissolved in milk, three e.^^s be^to. 
rately, one teaspoon of salt, erne and n^!^.^ J:, 
flour, one tablespoon of sugar, and the g. u 1 ,1 r 
^-n, peeled apples sliced without thet^ ^ til 
liot lard with a piece of apple in each on ; Z^k 
with poMdered o. spiced su,ar. Let them stan aft ' 
making and they will be lighter. Good 



MUFFINS. 

Mrs. W. H. Low 

One tablespoon of butter, two 

rau — a4-ii. ^n i. n 



tables) 

eggs— stir all together ; add one cup of sw 
teaspoons of baking powder, flour to mak 
i^ake twenty minutes in a quick oven 



wons sugar, two 



fee 



a stiff batter. 



284 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

MUFFINS. 



Beat four eggs into a full tablespoon of lard, mix into 
them one and one-half pints sour milk, effervescing with 
a teaspoon of soda ; add enough fiour to make the con- 
sistency of pound cake. Bake in heated rings. 

RYE MUFFINS. 

Mrs. Bartlctt. 

Two cups of rye, one of fiour, one of sugar, one egg, 
one teaspoon of soda, and a little salt ; mix quite stiff 
with sour milk. 

INDIAN MEAL MUFFINS. 

Two cups of Indian meal scalded with as little water 
}is possible, one coff'eecup of flour, one teacup of sweet 
milk, one tablespoon of shortening, one-half cup of 
brown sugar, a small cup of yeast ; mixed over night. 

WAFFLES. 
M. 

Yolks of three eggs, one quart milk, half cup melted 
vbutter, one heaping teaspoon baking powder. After- 
wards add the whites of the eggs and flour enough to 
make a thin batter. 

WAFFLES. 
M. 

One pint sour milk, three tablespoons melted butter, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



286 



mix into 
;ing with 
the con- 



one egg, 
lite stiff 



e water 
i sweet 
cup of 
light. 



melted 

After- 

ugh to 



butter, 



three eggs, beaten separately, one teaspoon soda, a little 
salt, flour enough to make a thick batter. 

' RICE CROQUETTES. 

C. T. C. 

Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk or water, 
till tender ; while warm add a piece of butter the size 
of an egg, two eggs; make into rolls, dip them in 
crumbs and fry them in lard or butter. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

One^teacup .rice, one pint milk, one pint water, a lit- 
tle salt ; buUer a tin, put in the mixture and swell on 
the stove. v.Iiere it will not quite simmer. When dry, 
add two (>-,^s, beaten light, with two tablespoons of su- 
gar and one of butter. Have ready cracker crumbs 
spread on a board thickly. Make a roll of the rice in 
the crumbs ; drop in hot lard and brown. 

GOOD BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. J. H. Browu. 

* 

Three eggs well beaten, two and a half teacups of 
flour, one pint of sweet milk, a little salt. Make a bat- 
ter of these, put in cups or rings and bake in a quick 
oven. 

BANNOCKS. 
M. 

One pint corn meaL pour on it !)oiiing water to thor- 
oughly wet it. Let it stand a few minutes ; add salt 



4 
,< 

i 



^^^ THE HOME COOK HOOK. 

and one o<,m and a little sweet cream, or a tablespoon 
melted butter. Make into balls and fry in hot lard 






ENGLISH PANCAKES. 

Mr. .Toscpli l.'oliiuson. 

Make a l,atter of two t.^acups of tlour, four c^^.rg, .^nd 
om- quart of nulk. Add, as a ^reat improvement, one 
tab espoonful of brandy with a little nutmej? scraped in. 
Make the size of frying pan. Sprinkle a little ^ranu- 
a ed sugar over the pancake, roll it up, and send to the 
table hot. 



WAFFLES. 

Mrs. S. M(;Mii.stor. 

One quart of sweet or sour milk, four eggs, two-thirds 
ol a cup ol l,utter, half a teaspoonful of salt, three tea- 
spoons of baking powder : flour enough to make a nice 
batter. It you use sour milk leave out the baking pow- 
der and use two teaspoons soda. Splendid. 






'm ■ '■ 



MUFFINS, FOR BEE/VKFAST. 

Mrs. S. McM, 

Three eggs, one cup milk, one tablespoon of crood 
butter melted, one tablespoon sugar, a little salt, two 
heapmg teaspoons good baking powder, flour enough 
to make a batter ; bake in muflin rings ; when almost 
done moisten over the top with a feather dipped in 
sweetened milk. 



j-jraMfjg .jtei. 



•yww 



iblospoon 
lard 



'^'gs, an a 
lent, one 
fapod in, 
e granu- 

Ul to tlU:! 



'o-tliirdH 
n-ee tea- 
e a nice 
ing pow- 



)f good 
lit, two 
enough 
almost 
>ped in 



^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

TEA BISCUITS. 

Mrs. Artliurs. 



287 



One quart flour, four teaspoonsful baking powder, about 
the size of an egg of butter, cue ta1)lespooniul of brown 
sugar, a teaspoonful of salt, and half cup of currants ; 
grate in a little nutmeg ; bake twenty minutes in a quick 
oven. 

MRS. CURTIS' MUFFINS. 

Mrs. I' pi mm. 

One quart flour, two and one-half teaspoonsful baking 
powder. Mix all dry in flour. Add cold water enough 
to make a stiff batter, and thena tablespoonful of melted 
lard. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs. J. D. Odcll. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one tablespoon sugar, 
two tablespoons of butter, one teaspoon salt, two tea- 
spoons baking powder, two tablespoons yeast ; flour to 
make a stiff batter; bake in rings when light. 

BREAD CAKE. 

Mrs. .1. D. Odell. 

Two cups dough, one and one-half cups sugar, one 
half cup butter, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one 
teaspoon soda, two eggs, one teaspoon each of cinna- 
mon, clo , es, and allspice. 



■-**!!!1W^^B= 



Tnf^ "OMR COOK BOOK. 

(tEMS. 

Mrs. Miinshaw. 

sn?„? r'' ''""'' '^'' "^' " ^^'^^""^' ^^^^-^^ t^'^«Poons 
sugar three eggs, one-half o„p sweet milk, flour enough 

o make a mee thick batter ; have your gem-pans burn- 
ing hot; bake in a very hot oven. 

PORT HOPE BISCUITS 

Mrs. Crawford. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one of butter, one-half cup 
o milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one teaspoonful 
ot carbonate soda, flour sufdcient to roll very thin ■ 
flavour with nutmeg. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, one cold 
coffee, four cups sifted flour, half cup of butter, small 
teaspoon of allspice, two teaspoons of baking powder. 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

Mrs Carsou. 

Three cups of yellow corn meal, one cup of flour, two 
cups of sweet milk, one cup of sour milk, half cup of 
molasses, one teaspoon of soda ; dissolve soda in hot 
wa er, pour half in the sour milk and half in molasses ; 
steam three hours and bake half an hour in a auick 
oven : just brown the top. 






■■■i.&!?y<»*--^i»?Wi |i i ^l«; ■ ■ « «,~ ji >.» j Bim 



"jfSSSaBBSBSs. 



easpoous 
ir enough 
ns buni- 



VALUARLE RECIPES. ^f^i) 

SALLY LUNN FOR BREAKFAST. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Four teacups of flour, two tablespoons of sugar, one 
ol lard, four eggs, four teaspoonsful of bakin^r powder • 
use half milk and half water to a thin batter, and l,ake 
in a quick oven. 



half cup 
spoonful 
T thin; 



WAFFLES. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Onej]uart of milk/four eggs, two-thirds cup of butter, 
half teaspoon of salt, three teaspoons of baking powder • 
flour enough for a batter, and bake in waffle irons and 
eat hot. 



)ue cold 
f, small 
ivder. 



CORN BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. Parmolce. 

One-half cup of sweet milk, two cups of flour, one 
corn meal, two eggs, butter size of an egg, tablespoon 
of baking powder mixed with flour ; bake in small ^em 
tms and cook quarter of an hour in a quick oven "^ 



ir, two 
cup of 
in hot 
asses ; 
quick 



AiUFFINS. 

Mrs. Spense. 

One quart of flour ; mix five teaspoonsful of Cook's 
friend in the flour, a piece (^^ „utter the size of two e^gs 
five teaspoons of sugar, .and as much milk as will make 
a stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes in rin^s. 



' *^3k 



•290 



w 



THE HOlNrE COOK HOOK. 

GJUHAM CAKES. 



Mrn. Spouco. 

One pint Graham flour, one pint white flour, one 
tahlespoonful of butter or shortening, two tabh'spoons- 
ful of molasses, two teas])oonHful of cream tartar, one 
teaspoonful of soda ; sift eream tartar and soda in with 
the white flour; do not sift the Graiiam flour ; rul) well 
together ; then rub your shortening in thoroughly ; wet 
with milk or water not too stifl' ; roll out and cut in 
cakes ; bake in a quiet oven. Baking powder may be 
used instead of cream of tartar and soda. 

BUNS. 

Miss Miller. 

Set in the evening, a pint of milk, butter the size of 
an egg, three tablespoons of yeast, and flour enough to 
make a thick batter. Warm the milk and butter to- 
gether ; add the yeast and flour. In the morning add 
two eggs, four tablespoons of sugar, and enough flour 
to roll in the hand, not on the board. After mixing let 
it stand till quite light : then make into buns, and let 
them stand four hours in the pans before baking. Bake 
about a quarter of an hour. 

SALLY LUxNN. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Four teacups flour, two tablespoons sugar, one table- 
spoon of lard, four eggs, four tablespoons of baking 
powder ; mix with half milk and water to a thin batter ; 
bake in a quick oven. 






\\\' ' iiilM>[Tiihil['"' 



flour, one 
jlospooiiH- 
artar, ono 
:1a in with 
; rub well 
^'hly ; wet 
nd cut in 
er may be 



he size of 
enough to 
butter to- 
rning add 
ugh liour 
mixing let 
, and let 
ig. Bake 



jne table- 
)f baking 
in batter; 



VALUABLE RECIPES. "201 

('EMS FOK JiUEAKFAST. 

Mrs. C'fvrson. 

One and a half cups of sweet milk, two cups of Hour, 

one cup of corn meal, two eggs, butter the size of an 

egg, one tablespoon of baking powder mixed dry in the 

Hour ; bake in small tins, and cook quarter of :^.n hour 

■ in a quick oven. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

One pint of corn meal, one teacup of flour, two eggs, 
one pint of sweet milk, one tablespoon of molasses, one 
tal)lospoon of melted butter, a little salt, one teaspoon 
ot soda, one teaspoon of cream of tartar ; bake in square 
tins. 

GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. Orson Smith. 

Two quarts warm water, one teaspoon salt, one cup 
flour, one cup corn meal, one half teacup yeast, two 
eggs well beaten and added the last ; raise over night. 

CORN BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Mrs. W, A.Carson. 

One and one-half cups sweet milk, two of Hour, one 
of corn meal, two eggs beaten light, butter size of an 
egg, tablespoon of baking powder mixed in flour ; bake 
in gem pans, and have them hot before putting in the 
mixture ; cook quarter of an hour in a quick oven. 



■-^ 



m ^ 



I 



III 



292 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

SPLENDID COEN CAKE. 

Mrs. \V. A. CarROU. 

One pint of corn meal scalded with hot water ; make as 
thin as mush, let it stand until quite cool ; then add one 
teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of melted butter, three 
eggs beaten light ; make al)out as thick as pound cake, 
and hake one hour in a slow oven. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Edith. 

Scald the meal at night ; let it stand where it will 
keep slightly warm until morning : then, for any ordin- 
ary four quart panful, add sutiiicient sour milk to render 
the right consistency — generally a large teacupful is 
enough ; saleratus. one tablespoonful ; salt, at time of 
scalding the meal: if the meal is very line, do not use 
boiling water. 

QUICK BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of buckwheat flour, one-half a teacup of 
corn meal or whe.it flour, a little salt, and two table- 
spoons of syrup. Wet these with cold or warm water 
to a thin l)atter, and add, lastly, four good tablespoons 
of bakinfj powder. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Lake Forest, 

One quart buckwheat flour, four tablespoons yeast. 
one tablespoon salt, one handful Indian meal, two 



U 






; make as 
n add one 
ter, three 
md cake, 



L'e it will 
ay ordin- 
to render 
,cupl"iil is 
1; time of 
not use 



;eacup of 
vo table- 
•m water 
)lespoons 



IS veast. 
eal. two 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



298 



tablespoons molasses, not syrup. Warm water enough 
to make a thin batter ; beat very well and set in a warm 
place. If the batter is the least sour in the morning, 
add a little soda. 

OATMEAL GRIDDLE CAKES. 

Mrs. J. M. Wethorell. 

One cup oatmeal, one cup flour, one teaspoon sugar, 
one teaspoon baking powder, one-half teaspoon salt ; 
sift the baking powder in with the flour ; add '?old water 
to make a batter of the consistency of buckwheat cakes ; 
beat very well together and bake imuioAiatcly. This 
receipt is sufticient for a family of three. 

MUSH. 

Indian or oatmeal mush is bust ade in the following 
manner : Put fresh water in a kettle over the Are to 
boil, and put in some salt ; when the water boils, stir in 
handful by handful corn or oatmeal until thick enough 
for use. In order to have excellent mush, the meal 
should be allowed to cook well, and long as possible 
while thin, and before the tinal handful is added. When 
desired to be fried for breakfast, turn into an earthen 
dish and set away to cool. Then cut in slices whenyou 
wish to fry ; dip each piece in beaten eggs and fry on a 
hot griddle. 

OATMEAL GEUEL. 

Take two tablespoons of oatmeal, pour on it a pint of 
cold water ; let it stand half a day, then pour it through 




294 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



a sieve and boil well one-quarter of an hour, stirring all 
the time ; season according to taste. The coarse meal 
to be rejected. Good for invalids or children. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Ten eggs are equal to one pound. 

One pound of brown sugar, one pound of white sugar, 
powdered or loaf sugar broken, is equal to one quart. 

One pound of butter, when soft, is equal to one quart. 

One pound and two ounces Indian meal is equal to 
one quart. 

One pound and two ounces of wheat flour is equal to 
one quart. 

Four large tablespoons are equal to one-half gill. 

Eight large tablespoons are equal to one gill. 

Sixteen large tablespoons are equal to one-half pint. 

A common sized wine glass holds half a gill. 

A common sized tumbler holds half a pint. 

Four ordinary teacups of liquid are equal to one quart. 



irring all 
rse meal 



CAKES. 



:es. 

te sugar, 
luart. 
le quart, 
equal to 

equal to 

ilf pint. 
le quart. 



But then my fare was all so light and delicate ; 
The Fruit, the Cakes, the Meats so dainty frail, 
They would not bear a bite— no, not a munch- 
But melted away like ice. 

— Hood. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

In making Cake, it is very desirable that the materials 
be of the finest quality. Sweet, fresh butter, eggs and 
good Hour are the first essentials. The process of put- 
ting together is also quite an important feature, and 
where other methods are not given in this work by con- 
tributors, it would be well for the young housekeeper to 
observe the following directions : Never allow the butter 
to oil, but soften it by putting it in a moderately warm 
place before you commence other preparations for your 
cake ; then put it into an earthen dish (tin, if not new, 
will discolor your cake as you stir it), and add your 
sugar ; beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; add the 
yolks of the eggs, then the milk, and lastly the beaten 
whites of the eggs and flour. Spices and liquors may 
be added after the yolks of the eggs are put in, and 
fruit should be put in with the flour. 

The oven should be pretty hot for small cakes, and 
moderate for larger. To ascertain if a large cake is suffi- 



MapoHw 



f n 



296 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



I I 



; i 



< ! 

I* 



ciently baked, pierce it with a broom-straw through the 
centre ; if done the straw will come out free from dough; 
if not done, dough will adhere to the straw. Take it out 
of the tin about fifteen minutes after it is taken from the 
oven (not sooner), and do not turn it over on the top to 
cool. 

ICING. 

The following rules should be observed where boiled 
icing is not used : 

Put the whites of your eggs in a shallow earthen dish, 
and allow, at least, a quarter of a pound or sixteen table- 
spoons of the finest white sugar for each egg. Take part 
of the sugar at first and sprinkle over the eggs ; beat them 
for about half an hour, stirring in gradually the rest of 
the sugar ; then add the flavour. If you use the juice of a 
lemon, allow more sugar. Tartaric acid and lemon juice 
whitens icing. It may be shaded a pretty pink with 
strawberry juice or cranberry syrup, or coloured yellow 
by putting the juice and rind of a lemon in a thick muslin 
bag and squeezing it hard into the ogg and sugar. 

If cake is well dredged with flour after baking, and 
then carefully wiped before the icing is put on, it will 
not run and can be spread more smoothly. Put frcstin" 
on to the cake in large spoonsful, commencing over the 
centre ; then spread it over the cake, usirg a large knife, 
dipping it occasionally ir cold water. Dry the frosting 
on the cake in a cool, dry place. 



f> » 



V 



FROSTING. 

Mrs. Louiso Dewey. 

One pint granulated sugar, moisten thoroughly with 



j| If 



rough the 
m dough ; 
'ake it out 
I from the 
ihe top to 



re boiled 

hen dish, 
sen table- 
['ake part 
eat them 
e rest of 
juice of a 
ion juice 
ink with 
d vellow 
k njuslin 
ir. 

ing, and 
, it will 
frosting 
over the 
56 knife, 
frosting 



ly with 



. 



VALUABLK KKCIPEK. 



207 



water sul'ticient to dissolve it when heated ; lot it boil 
until it threads from the spoon, stirring often ; while the 
sugar is boiling, beat the whites of two eggs till they are 
hrni; then when thoroughly beaten, turn them into a 
deep dish, and when the sugar is l)oil('(l, turn it over the 
whites, beating all together rapidly until of the right con- 
sistency to spread over the cake. Flavour with lemon if 
preferred. This is sufHcicnt for two loaves. 

FK0ST1X(; I'OB CAKE. 

Klla (iuild. 

One cup frosting sugar, two tablespoons of water boiled 
together; take it off the stove and stir in the white of one 
egg beaten to a stiff froth ; stir all together well ; then 
frost your cake with it, and you will never want a 
nicer frosting than this. 

ICE CREAM ICING FOR WHITE CAKE. 

Mis. r. B. Aver. 

Two cups pulveri/icd sugar boiled to a thick syrup; 
add three teaspoons vanilla ; when cold, add the whites 
of two eggs well beaten, and ffavoured with two teaspoons 
of citric acid. 

ICING. 

Mis. H. r, Stowt'll. 

One pound pulverized sugar, pour over one tablespt)on 
cold water, beat whites of three eggs a little, not to a 
stiff froth ; add to the sugar aud water ; put in a deep 
bowl ; place in a vessel of boiling water and heat. It 

20 



fc«es 



298 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



:? 



will become thin aitcl clear, afterward begin to thicken. 
When it becomes (juito thick remove from the fire and 
«tir while it becomes cool till thick enough to spread 
with a knife. This will frost several ordinary sized 
cakes. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Mrs. C. H. Whoeler. 

Whites of two eggs, one and one-half cups of line 
sugar, six great spoons of grated chocolate, two tea- 
spoons of vanilla ; spread rather thickly between layers 
and on the top of cake. Best when freshly made.*^ It 
should be made like any frosting. 

BLACK FRUIT CAKE. 

Mrs. C. H. Wheeler, 

Three-fourths pound of butter, one pound sugar 
(brown), one pound flour, two pounds currants, three 
pounds raisins (seeded), one-half pound citron, one- 
fourth pound almonds, eight eggs, one nutmeg, cloves 
and cinnamon, one wineglass of brandy. The raisins' 
are better if soaked in brandy over night. 

BLACK CAKE. 

Mrs. G. F. DeForrest. 

Two pounds <^f liour, two pounds sugar, two pounds 
butter, eight pounds raisins, four pounds currants, one 
pint brandy, two pounds citron, twenty-four eggs, two 
ounces nutmeg, two teaspoons of cloves: add a little 
molasses to make ii more moist and black. This makes 



to thicken, 
the fire aud 
I to spread 
:iiary sized 



ips of fine 

e, two tea- 

'een layers 

made. It 



ind Bugar 
int8, three 
tron, one- 
leg, cJoves 
he raisins 



70 pounds 
rants, one 
eggs, two 
M a little 
liis makes 



# 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



299 



two very large loaves, baked in tin pans or hoops. For 
weddings. Splendid. 

COOKIES. 

Mis. (i. W.vUic. 

One cup of butter, one eup of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoon of soda, three eggs, flour enough to roll out thin. 

]\[0L ASSES COOKIES. 

Mrs. v.. Wyllic. 

One cup of molasses, one tablespoon of soda ; dissolve 
in half a cup of boiling water ; one tablespoon ginger, 
two tablespoons butter, and flour enough to roll out thin ; 
cut with cake cutter, and cook in (piick oven. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. A. C. 

One and a half cups of sugar, one of butter, two eggs, 
half a cup of sour cream, one teaspoon of soda ; mix 
just so that you can roll out; then sprinkle with sugar 
just before putting in oven ; bake (piick. 

COOKIES. 
One tablespoon of butter, one cup of sugar, one egg, 
half a cup of milk, half a teaspoon of soda, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, flour to roll ; cut in round cakes 
and bake in a rather quick oven. - ^ 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. W. Baird. 

One cup of sugar, ouo of ])uttcr, two eggs, spices to 
taste, two tablespoons of milk, one teaspoon of soda and 



t."prf»»' 



,l^^«,^^ 



300 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



t4 



> 



half of cream of tartar; beat all together with Hour 
enough to roll out thin. 

COOKIES. 

Mrs. StotcKbiiry. 

Two eggs, (>n(; eup of butter, one of sugar, half tea- 
spoonful of soda, ami flour enough to make a dough; 
roll thin and bake (|ui(;kly. 

DROP COOKIES. . 

MiH. J. D. Odoll. 

Two I'ups of sugar, one cup of milk, half cup of butter, 
three-quarters cup of flour, two teaspoonsful baking 
powder, two eggs. 

WHITE COOKIES. 

Mrs. J. l{. Silhman. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
four eggs, two tablespoonsful caraway seeds ; add flour 
enough to roll, and cut out. 

COOKIES. 

]Mrs. W. A. Carson. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, one-half of sour milk, 
one teaspoon of soda. Hour enough to roll out thin ; cut 
with a sharp tin cake cutter ; bake in a quick oven. 

POOR MAN'S DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. (loorgo Virtue. 

One quart of flour, two saltspoons of salt, four tea- 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



801 



spoonsful of ye. ,t powder, one and one-half cups of 
sugar, one cup of milk, nutmeg. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Ada King. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, two tablespoons of melted 
butter, two-thirds cup of milk, two even teaspoons of 
cream tartar, one even teaspoon of soda, flour enough to 
roll, salt and nutmeg. 



^ 4 






NELL'S GINGER CAKE. 

Mrs. S. Mc^Fastcr. 

Two cups :uolasses, one large tablespoon of lard, one 
of ginger, oik' of salt, one cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoon of s.),la, four cups and one-half of sifted flour. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Mrs. B. Mc^faster. 

Three eggs, two and one-half cups sweet milk, two 
cups sugar, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one of 
soda; spices to taste ; rollout and cut in shapes, and 
fry in boiling lard ; while hot dip in flne sugar. 






CREAM CAKE. 

Mamie Nevett. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of cream, two 
cups of flour, one tcaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 
one teaspoonful of soda. 



a 



1!. 




n 



•^eT^T-m-.. 



f ,'rtff'i'^- 



ii02 THE IIOMK COOK IJOOK. 

(IINGEH CAKES. 

Mrs. Joseph Saulkr. 

Two cups of syvui) and one cup of lard, scalded 
together ; add one dessertspoonful of baking soda ; 
when cool add Hour enough to make a dough ; ginger to 
taste; roll out and cut into shapes with cutter; hake in 
a medium oven : ruh a little syrup over the ops before 
baking. 

GlNGEriBlJEA]). 

Mi.s8 L. Stagm'in. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, two cups of 
molasses, live and c^ne-half cups of flour, six eggs, one 
cup of butteruiilk, ginger ;ind ciimamon essences to 
taste, and one dessertspoonful of soda. 



WHITE GINCiEUBllEA]). 



Ettio. 

Hub half a pound of butter into one pound of lloir, 
add half a pound of loaf sugar, which should be fmely 
pounded and sifted, and the rind of one lemon veryfine- 
ly minced, one ounce of ground ginger and a nutmeg 
grated. Mix these well together ; make one gill of milk 
just warm, stir in half a teaspoonful of carl)onato of 
soda, and work the whole into a smooth paste ; roll it 
out into Ciikes, and bake in a moderate oven fr(.>m 
fifteen to twenty minutes. 



I 



VALUABLE UKCIPES. ^03 

GINGER SPICE CAKE. 

Mi-H. J. D. Oadl. 

One cup of molassm Inilf a cup oi butter, half 
a cup of milk, two eggs, one teaspoon of cloves, 
one teaspoon of cinnamon, on(! teaspoon of baking pow- 
der, salt ; bake in a (luick oven. 

GINGER CAKE. 

Mrs. Howe. 

Three eggs, three-quarters of a cup of sugar, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of milk, three quarters of a cup of 
butter, one teaspoon of soda, (me teaspoon of cream of 
tartar, one tablespoonful of ginger, one of cinnamon, 
allspice, three cups of Hour. 

WALNUT HILL'S DOUGHNUTS. 

MiH. Howe. 

One teacup sour cream or milk, two teacups of sugar, 
one teacup of butter, four eggs ; spice with nutmeg and 
cinnamon; one teaspoonful of soda; beat all well to- 
gether with some of the flour ; then mix with the hands 
till stiff enough to roll ; cut in diamond cakes and fry 
in hot lard. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mrs. Howe. 

One teacup of sugar, half a cup of sweet milk, two 
eggs, three tablespoons melted butter, half a teaspoon- 
ful of soda ; spice with cinnamon and nutmeg. 



% 







! 



V 






^1 



' 7 i^ 



;{0I TFIE HOME COOK BOOK. 

IIICE FLOL'U CAKE. 

Ten . y:'-\, uuc p()i ndof suj;;ar, "ko pound of rico Hour ; 
flavour vMtf/ IciiKm ; Uoiit tlu' eggs iiud HUgar half an 
hour, llion add the Hour. 

BOFT GlKl,]' U CAKE. 

^^|•s. W. A. C'liison. 

Two GggB, one .tud one-half cups of molasses, three 
tablespoons of l)utter, one teacup of milk, one teaspoon 
of soda and two of cream of tartar. 

(JINGER COOKIES. 

Mrs. \V. A. Caison. 

Two cups of molasses, two-thirds of a cup of butter, 
two teasi)0()ns gimrer, three teaspoons soda dissolved in 
a iittli' boiling water in a cup ; now till the cup with 
butter inilK' ; do not mix too thick. 

SPICE CAKE. 

Mrs, Cook. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, iialf cup butter, half 
of sour milk, two eups of raisins chopped, three eggs, 
half a nutmeg, one ti'aspocm cinnamon, one of cloves, 
one saleratus ; mix rather stiff"; l>ake in loaf tins in 
moderate oven. 

SPONOE JELEY (^AKE. 

Mrs. li. ,1. liilford. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, two tea- 




VALUAl^LK RECIPES. 



305 



rn 



spoonsful baking powder, five tablespoons boiling water. 
This is (piickly made, and you may use any filling you 
ehoose. 

FUITTEKS. 

Mrs. Isiiiic Slmnnuii. 

Two eggs, two cups sour milk, one teaspoon sodii, 
four tablespoons l)utter. Hour to tliicken, fiy in boiling 
lard. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs. Teil Tliomaa. 

One pint molasses, five eggs, one cotTee-cup sour milk, 
on,' I'utter, one tablespoon ginger, one tablt'spoon soda, 
Hour to tbicken ; bake in a long tin. 

CREAM SPONGE CAKE. 

' Mrs. John Thomas. 

One cup sugar, one-lialf cup cream, two eggs, one cup 
Hour, one-balf teaspoon en am tartar, one-fourtb soda, 
Havour witb a few drops of leuKm essence. 

.TELLY CAKE. 

:\Irs. .Toliii Tlioiiias. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, 
tliree tablespoons milk, one cup flour, essence, one tea- 
spoon Cook's Friend, or one-balf teaspoon cream tartar 
and one-fourtb soda ; bake in two jelly tins in a 
moderately warm oven : beat tbe sugar and butter well 
together. 






Ij. 



Mta 




msismim'- 



^MP* 



306 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LOAF CAKE. 

MiH. John Thomas. 



One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one egg, one cup 
sweet milk, one pint flour, one cup raisins, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, one teasj)oon cream tartar, essence. 

LIGHT TEA CAKES. 

Mrs. John Thoinns. 

One and one-half cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, 
three eggs, three tablespoons sour milk, in which dissolve 
one-half teaspoon soda, flt)ur ; mix as soft as possible 
and roll white sugar on top before cutting into rings. 

FEATIIEII CAKE. 

Miss Kimiip. 

White sugar one cup, butter one-half cup, flour two 
cups, eggs three, two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
nutmeg or other flavouring to suit the taste. Very good. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Augusta Simmers. 

One cup of butter, three eggs, one of milk, four and 
one-half cups of flour, four teaspoonsful Cook's Friend, 
two teacups of desicated cocoanut. 

* 

GERMAN EINGS. 

Augusta Simmers. 

One-half pound of flour, one-half pound butter, one 
tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon brandy, two eggs ; 






*^HIK 




one cup 

half tea- 



p butter, 
dissolve 
possible 

i-iiif^s. 



lour two 

powder, 

tivy good. 



four and 
i Friend, 



itter, one 
ro eggs; 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



307 



beat all together ; make them in rings and put cinnamon 
and sugar on the top. 

POUND CAKE. 

Augusta SimmerH. 

One pound of Hour, three-fourths of a pound butter, 
three-fourtliK of a pound sugar, eight eggs ; flavour to 
taste. 

1, 2, 3, 4 CAKE. 

Augusta Siniincrs. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, tln-ec cups of flour, 
four eggs add ; a little rnori^ flour, roll out very thin on 
s..gar, cut any shape, and bake ([uickly. 

RICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Bciidelari. 

Half a pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, six eggs, 
one teaspoon vanilla ; break in the eggs on the tk)ur 
and sugar, whip for half an hour with the back of a 
dinner knife ; bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven. 

RICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

Break six eggs on half a pound of rice flour and 
half a pound of crushed white and sifted sugar, then 
beat all together for flfteen minutes, and flavour with a 
few drops of essence of lemon ; line a dish with buttered 
paper and bake half an hour. 



\W 



41 




|H|Hannif: 7 


^^H k 


i^'^i 


^^K '' 


^&,1 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CUP CAKE. 

S. T. iM. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup l)uttcr, three 
eggs well beaten, a little nutmeg, and two teaspoonsful 
of Cook's Friend or baking powder, and sufficient flour 
to make a rather thick batter. 

cur CAKE. 

Mrs. Aithui-H. 

One cup of butter, one of sifted sugar, one of milk, 
three cups of Hour, three eggs, three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, tlavour with essence of lemon ; lino a dish 
with buttered pai)er and bake one hour. 

PLAIN FPUri: CAKE. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

One-half pound of well washed currants, and one-half 
pound of raisins, one cup of butter beaten to a cream, 
one cup of whit.' sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of 
Hour, three eggs, and three teaspoonsful of baking 
powder : paper a dish and bake one hour. 

DllOP CAKKS. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

One ]tint of Hour, one-half pound of butter, one-fourth 
pound of sifti'd sugar, half a, nutmeg grated, a handful 
of currants, two eggs, and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder ; to be baked in a slack oven for ten minutes. 
The above quantity will make about thirty cakes. 



er, three 
poonsful 
cut flour 



of milk, 
)nsful of 
no a dish 



one-half 
a cream, 
e cups of 
f baking 



lie-fourth 
L handful 
if baking 
minutes. 

(S. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. ^^^ 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. W. Arthurs. 

Fom- esgs, two cui-s M.gar, two .ui-» H"'"'. "'"^^•''^''' 
cup cokl ^vator, three tean«on»ful Cook's Fr,on,l-. beat 

the eggs separately. 

CUP CAKE. 

Mrs. Arthurs. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups Hour, four 
eggs, cup milk, three teaspoonsful Cook's Friend. 
(iEiniAN LADIES' lMN(iEUS. 

Helena Smith. 

Beat the volk« of live egRS with half a run.l of suRar 
to, Kfteeu .uiuutes ; a,W half a ,.ou„.l ..1 Wane ert 
ahn«u,l» eut line, the gratea riu.l o, one ™-» ^ ' - 
well ; add lialf a poan.! of fl..ui- very gra.lua 1> , lol « t 
L paste and eut into strips the length and «,ze ot the 
forefinger ; bake in a moderate oven. 

mt'E CAlvE. 

Heleilft Smith. 

One eup of white sugar, one of rice Hour, live eggs 
one teaspoonful ot any essence 1'™'';"-'^'' ■/™'. '' 
together tor twenty minutes ; bake halt an hour ni a 

moderate oven. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Mrs. (loorf^o Virtue. 

Beat cme-half pound fresh butter to a er..a.« 
equal weight sifted sugar and dried sugar, tue yolk= and 



I i 



; il 



^^ 



» m 



^ueasms^: 



irtifiwumiWHiillMirnKiM 




il 



V > 



\ 



y>'- ■: 



i'L I 



310 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



whites of eight ej^'j^'s separately whisked, two ounces 
candied oranj^'e |)ee!, one-halt' teaspoonful of mace, a 
glass of hrandy, one pound (lour stirred in by degrees, 
one and one-quarter pounds of eiu-rants, four ounces of 
powdered almonds ; bake two hours. 

SWEET SANDWICHES. 

Clara Siiiitli. 

Five eggs, one-half pound white sugar, one-fourth 
pound butter, all beaten together until very light ; add 
one-fourth pound flour mixed with a teaspoonful of 
Cook's Friend. 

SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

Clara Smith. 

One cup butter, two of brown sugar, live eggs (not 
divided,) one cup milk, four of ilour, one of raisins, 
spice to taste ; use Cook's Friend in the liour; bake 
three hours. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. W. T. Eyre. 

Two eggs, cup of sugar, cup of Hour, two tablespoons- 
ful of water ; white of one egg and teaspoonful of sugar 
mixed together to make the cocoa stick. 



'D^ 



CENTENNIAL CAKE. 

Mrs. (xoorge Virtue. 

Five eggs, three cups of powdered sugar, one cup of 
cream or milk, one cup of butter, four cups of flour, the 






VALUABLE RECIPES. 



311 



ounces 
mace, a 
degrees, 
iiinces of 



e-fourth 
lit ; add 
oiilul of 



ggsdiot 
raisins, 
r ; bake 



'spoons- 
of sugar 



G cup of 
our, the 






rind and part of juice of one lemon, and a little baking 
powder, or use prepared tlour. 

LUNCHEON CAKE. 

M. a. 

One-half pound butter, one pound tlour, one-half 
ounce caraway seeds, one-fourth pound currants, six 
ounces moist sugar, one ounce candied peel, three eggs, 
one-half pint milk, one small teaspoonful of carbonate 
of soda ; bake in a moderate oven from one to one and 
one-half hours. Proved to be very good. 

PLAIN SPONGE FOR JELLY OR COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. R. Beaty. 

One cup flour, one cup sugar, three eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately, one teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoonful soda, four tablespoons cold 
water. Flavour to taste. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

Fanuie. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup milk or water, two cups of Hour, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream of tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, and 

a little nutmeg. 

JOE'S CAKE. 

Fiinnio S. 

Two cups of sugar, one-half cup butter, two eggs, half 
a cup of raisins chopped fine, half a cup of curraiity, si 



^i4i*ii>e^ 



312 



THE HOME COOK 1500K. 



little loiiioii-peel, oiif tciispoonfiil of essence of lemoii, 
oTio-hair cup of milk, two tcaspoousful of baking powtler 
and three cups of tloiir. 

CIIOCOLATi: DKESSIXG VOU CAKE. 

^rl■s. S. Me Master. 

One bar and a half chocolate, iive tablespoons sweet 
nnlk, four of powdered sugar ; boil soft and thick ; 
when cool add whites of two eggs and sugar to thicken. 

PUFF CAKE. 

Mrs. S;un. McMastrr. 

One cup of sugar, one of ilour, ihvw eggs, three tea- 
spoons cold water, two of l)aking powder, a pinch of salt ; 
bake in sponge cake pans. 

The I'.vsn-: I'ou Ahove.^- One cup of milk, one table- 
spoon of corn starch, one egg, a [)inch of salt; cook like 
boiled custard ; split each cake open with a knife and 
fill tlie space with the paste, taking care not to let any 
appear outside the cakes. These may be made extra 
nice by iceing with chocolate dressing. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. D. Odell. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one cup of milk, two 
cups of tlour, piece of butter the si/e of a small egg, 
one egg, two tcaspoonsful baking powder. Iceing. Wliites 
of two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup chocolate ; 






lemon, 
powder 



IS swet't 

thick ; 

tbickeii. 



tree tea- 
of salt ; 



e table- 
:'Ook like 
Liife ami 
i let any 
:1c extra 



lilk, two 
lall egg, 

. WliitOH 

locolate ; 



^l3 

VALUABLE RECIPES. 

,,eat .11 togetlK. ana cook in a ff^^^'^^T^Zf^' 

x-1 +1. HI-.. \oAn(^ ■ spread between the cawcs- 

until sniootli liwt' letiiic , ^i ^ 

CHOCOLATE CAKf- 

One cup of butter, one cup milk, tbree of sugar, four 
iTnv six c^'gs one teaspoon of soda, two tea 

cups Ot ilOUl, SIX C^^S, urn i , i:i ^ \^.\]y 

spoons of cream of tartar; bake in ^■''^'''^'^'\''^. 

whipped together. 

COCOA^^TT CAKE. 

M. R. Beard. 

One cun of In.tter, tln-o« ot »ngav, .,no of milk, four ot 
J-.l,nt,on«o^U;^^>5-^ 

tnvhiv five eggs ; baue m laNti" ^"^'^ j . 

taiiai, uv^ ^ob ' TTolf n Doiind ot white 

to place ^-tween the layers Hal^^^ 

su^^ar to the whites of two eggs, whip tuc c„„h 

Ih^'rated cocoanut in, and place between the layeis. 

MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

M. R- Beard. 

- Ono-lmlf ™p ot sugar, one-half <■»!>"' J-"-; °- 
c„p of nnlk, two and one-fourth cups of flour, on tea 
• spoonful Boaa, two teaspoonstul of cream of taitai, t.o 
eggs, a little nutmeg. 



i i 



.-•4 



■"'TfTt*"'Bilffii«lt.lffiirt'"-"f-ft<nT^ 



314 



It ; if) 



'IF 



'I HE HOME COOK BOOK. 

COTTAdE PUDDING. 

M. 11. liearcl. 

One-half cup of sugar, one cup of milk, one pint of 
Hour, three tablcHpoonsful of melted butter, one tea- 
spoonful soda, two of cream of tartar, two eggs, a little 
salt ; hake one-quarter of an hour in suuill pans. 

FEU IT CAKE. 

Mrs. Siiitlor. 

Half a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar ; rub 
well together ; four eggs well beaten, half a teasi)oon of 
soda, one wine glasrt of whiskey, half a nutmeg, fruit t-^^ 
suit the taste, flour to stiffen ; bake in a slow oven ; 
this cake will keep for weeks. 

CRULLIES. 

Mrs. Snitler. 

^V Threg eggs, two cups of sugar, one ciip of butter, two 

cups of sour milk, two teaspoons Cook's Friend, spice, 
flour to stiffen ; cut in rings and fry in hot lard. 



MOLASSES CAKE. 

MrH. Snider. 



m-: 



One cup of butter, one cup of brown sugar, one cup 
of molasses, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, 
four eggs, one and a half teaspoons of cream tartar, one 
teaspoon of soda, two pouv.ds (^f rsiisins chopped fine., 
nutmeg ; ])ake in a slow oven. 



no pint of 
one tea- 
^H, a little 
ns. 



I gar ; rub 
as)ioon of 
g, fruit t-^ 
ow oven ; 



utter, two 
'ud, spice, 
;d. 



r, one cup 
3 of flour, 
artar, one 
pped fine. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 315 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Mrs. Snider. 

Five cups of flour, three cups of molasses, one cup of 
butter, one cup of milk or water, two tabl(>spoons gin- 
ger, two eggs, one teaspoon sotla ; bake slowly. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MrH. Upliani. 

The weight of eight eggs in sugar, half flie weight in 
flour, and the juice and rind of one lemon ; Ix^at two 
eggs separately. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

MrH. Upliaui. 

One pint of molasses, one cup of butter, a teaspoon- 
ful each of ginger, cloves, and soda ; put all over the tire 
together and let it coma to a boil, using a large vessel, 
. as it is likely to foam over ; when nearly cool add flour 
enough to make a stiff dough ; roll out and cut into 
small cakes. 

WINTER SPONGE CAKE. 

MrH. Upham. 

Take four eggs, two cups of sugar, two coft'ee-cups of 
flour, two teaspoonsful cream tartar, two-thirds a cup 
boiling water, and lemon to flavour; add the water 
last ; pour into a pan and place into a well-heated oven. 
This, though api)arently very thin, will come from the 
oven a most delightful cake. 



t';! 



^^^ 




310 



Fiv( 



THK HOME COOK BOOK. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Mis. Upham. 
pomuls of secdi'd raisms, Invo poundB of cur- 



rants, one poiiiul of citron, twelve ep;us, one pound of 
butter, one pound sugar (brown), on% colfee-fup of 
mobisses, a little brandy, one tea-cup of spiees. 

ICEING FOB ANY CAKE. 

Mrs. Upliam. 

Instead of beating tlie eggs to a stiiV froth, as is gen- 
erally the case, take four tablespoons of suga.' to the 
egg, "and stir thoroughly; then spread on cake; 'vili 
make a nnu-h harder iceing than beating it. 

CAKE. 

Mr. Upham. 

Cream iilled cakes: These delicious cakes are very 
easily made if care is taken to have the water boiling. 
Measure out one-half pint and put in a small kettle ; 
immediately after it comes to a boil again put in two- 
thirds of a cup of butter and one and a half ci-ps of 
Hour ; stir briskly for a moment, leaving it over the tire ; 
remove this mixture and place in a dish where it will 
gOit entirely cold; beat live large fresh eggs very 
thoroughly, then stir in your cold mixture a spoonful at 
a time ; stir it all until smooth and free from lumps ; 
drop them upon a greased dripping pan in small pear- 
shaped cakes ; bake half an hour in a real hot oven ; 
don't be afraid they will burn unless you see them doing 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



317 



la of cnr- 

pouiid of 
fee-eiii) of 

s. 



as IS gen- 
ial' to the 
cake ; 'vill 



?s are very 
,ter l)oiling. 
lall kettle ; 
put in two- 
alf ci'ps of 
•er the lire ; 
here it will 
eggs very 
spoonful at 
fom lumps ; 
small pear- 
li hot oven ; 
them doing 



i' 



so. When done they will he hollow inside, of a hrjght 
hrown colour; if not well done they will riiitt.n. The 
ov.ii uuist he hot when you put them in, and if k<"pt so 
success is sure. 

Filling or ("ream : Put a little nnn-e than om; piut ot 
milk in a pail and set in hoiling water; heat two eggs, 
two-thirds cup of corn starch, one full cup sugar, cme- 
half teaspoonful salt, and some vanilla, thoroughly to- 
gether ; add a full half cup of milk, and stir all into 
vour hoiling milk : it should he very thick ; cut open 
your cakes near the hottom and fill very full of cream ; 
he sure the cream is cold. 

DKIEJ) APPLE CAKE. 

^Irs. Broilu'. 

Soak three cupsful of dried apples overnight in warm 
water, chop slightly, then let them sinnner for one hour 
and a half in two cups of syrup ov molasses ; add two 
eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, half cup 
of hutter, one teaspoonful of soda. Hour enough to make 
a stitT hatter ; hake in a quick oven. 



♦ 



CHEAP AND GOOD CAKE. 

Ada Kiiig. 



One cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of hutter, three- 
fourths cup water cold, one and three- fourths cup of 
tlour, whites of two eggs, one teaspoon of lemon, haking 
powder used. 



m 



n.^i 



f 




I If 






'A, 






It 1 




318 THE IIOMK COOK UOOK. 

SIMCK CAKK. 

Oiu' cup of su-ar. ll.m-fourtlis cui) of butter, fill up 
witli milk, oiK^ i"^'A, oiu- iiiid thrcr-lourtlis cup of hour, 
one Kinall tfiispoon Hoda, one deHSfrt npoon of cinna- 
mon, cloves, and allspice. 

FliriT CAKE. 

MiH. .1. 1>. Odell. 

One cup butter, two cups of su^ar, one cup molasses, 
six cups Hour, one cup sour cream or milk, tliree eggs, 
one teaspoon soda, one pound raisins, one pound cur- 
rants, one-fourtli pound citron, three nutmegs, cloves 
and mace one tablesi)oon each. This will make one 
large cake or two small on(^s. 

("OHN STAUCII CAKE. 
Two cups pulverized sugar, two-thirds cup melted 
butter, one-half .-up milk, two teaspoons baking powder, 
one teaspoon vl lilla, one paper corn starch, six eggs. 

CKEAM PUFFS. 

Mrs. J. D. Odell. ||^ 

One and one-half cups flour, two-thirds cup butter, 

one-half pint water ; boil butter and water together, stir 

in flour while boiling, let it- cool, and add live well beaten 

ea-^s ; drop on tins and bake in a (luick oven. When 

oo ' . A, ., « ,, • . -. rv„„ „^vi+ of "^ilk one CUD 

cool iili witii tile foilowiiig: OUv pmt- oi ...ma, ^l.- 
Bugar, two-thirds cup corn starch, two eggs ; beat sugar, 



I, 



f^mimi' 



VAUATiliK UKCirKS. 



319 



VV, fill up 

I of Hour, 
of cimia- 



» molasses, 
tliri'c eggH, 
[)onn(l cur- 
egs, cloves 
make one 



Clip melted 
ing powder, 
six eggs. 



# 
cup butter, 

together, stir 

3 well beaten 

(ven. When 

silk, one cup 

; beat sugar, 



V 



eggs, and Hour together ; sth- in the milk while boiling ; 
tlavour with lemon or viinillii. 

VLAIN KUIUT CAKi 

IVIrs. Hftmiltou. 

Three .M,i.s of sugar, cue and a, half of butirr, one 
and a half of molasses, .ue of u.ilk, four eggs, one tea- 
spoonful soda,twoteaspoousful cinnamon, two teaspoons- 

ful cloves, two teaspoonsful nutmeg, two pounds currants, 
• me-half pound citron, one glass of wine, Hour t.) uuike a 
stiff batter. 

IMTIS. J. n. SILLIMAN'S SIMCK CAKE. 
Take one cup of butt.r, two cups of molasses, 
four eggs, two tablespoonsful of allspice, two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, one cup of nnlk, three cups 
of flour. 

MRS. J. R SILLIMANS WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 
Take two tumblers of white pulverized sugar, one and 
a half tumblers sifted flour, one teaspoonful cream tar- 
tar, white of ten eggs beaten very stiff; then add the 
flour and sugar, and beat as little as possible ; bake m 
aliow oven. 

LOVELY SPONGE CAKE. 

< Mrs. .1. D. King. 

One pound of sugar, one-half pound of flour, ten 
eggs, one grated lemon ; beat sugar and yoiks to a cream, 



'•7^ *-^^mi^Ui 



nmm m imimiM »^::_, 



320 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



whites to a stiff froth ; add lemon to the sugar and eggs 
when l)eaten. Takes two persons to make it. 

VANITY CAKE. 

Mi«. Hiiniilton. 

Two eggs, one cup Hour roHed thin as a wafer ; cut 
in patterns ; hoiled in lard. 

SODA CAKE. 

Mrs. Hamilton. 

Two c'ui)s sugar, one-half cup hutter, one cup of milk, 
three and a half of flour, two eggs, one tcaspoonful Cook's 
Friend ; flavour with lemon. 

NICE LITTLE CAKES-CHEAP. 

Madiuiie E. Pernct. 

One-half cup hutter, one-half cup sugjir, one-half cup 
milk, three cups Hour, two eggs, two spoonsful leaking 
powder. Mode— Beat the eggs, add the sugar, the hatter 
well beaten, and half a nutmeg if the flavour he approved 
of, if not any other spice, or a few drops of essence of 
any kind ; mix the baking powder well with the flour, 
and add by degrees to the mixture ; bake in small patty 
pans half an hour in a (juick oven. They will be found 
very good if j roper ly made. 

SANDWICH CAKE. 

Miss Krokovski, 

One coffee tup of su^, one large tablespoonful of 
butter beaten to a cream with the sugar, three eggs 



V 



lWiw^^ 



^^>^%>^. 



-~n*- ■9W^:-'m»^j' ,m mmii 



'h'i 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



32] 



f and eggs 



afer ; cut 



1 of milk, 
111 Cook's 



-half cup 
1 baking 
he batter 
ipproved 
^sencG of 
he flour, 
all patty 
je found 



t)nful of 
ee eggs 



beaten separately, one heaping coffee-cup of flour, three 
teaspoonsful of baking powder mixed well through the 
flour, and one tablespoonful of milk ; if cream of tartar, 
two teaspoonsful and one of soda, mixing the cream 
tartar in the flour, and putting soda in the milk. Mix 
all together, seasoning with extract of lemon ; beat well 
for a few minutes ; bake on four flat tins in a quick 
oven. This may be put together with jelly or custard or 
cocoauut, using the desicated cocoanut, moistened with 
the whites of three eggs beaten to a froth, and iced over. 



LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

JFrs. Joseph Saiilter. 

Jireak one pound of loaf sugar into suiall lumps, put 
to it one-quarter pound of butter, the yolks of six eggs 
with the whites of four, the juice of three lemons, and 
the peel of two grated ; put these into a pan, let them 
simmer over a slow lire until the sugar is dissolved ; 
continue to stir it gently one way while it is on the fire, 
or it will curdle ; keep it in a jar like mince meat ; let 
it simmer till it begins to thicken, or looks like honey. 



SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

MisH Isaac Khanuon. 

One-half pound of flour, and butter and sugar 
firmly pounded, one eg«r, and a teasnoonfnl of 

J. — — - 

mace ; roll them out the size f»u like ; bake them in a 
slow oven. Excellent, 



1 '-" 



qo9 



\\ 



'\ 



i 

if 




THE HOME COOK HOOK. 

EXCELLENT CAKE. 



.Mrs. .Idscjili Hobiiison. 

One pouiul tlour, ouc-liaH" pound butter, tluve-foui-tlis 
pouiul sugar, oii(!-luilf pint of milk, livo eggs, two table- 
spoonsful of lu'andy, one tcaspoonful of soda and two of 
cream of tartar. Tut half this (piantity into a cake tin 
for a plain cake, then add one cup of currants to the 
remainder, which will make a nice variety of cake. 

EltUlT CAKE. 

Mrs. Ini Mtitcalf. * 

One pound butter, out' pound brown sugar, one cup 
molasses, nine eggs, half a pint brandy, one pound flour, 
one-half pound nunu', three pounds raisins, three pounds 
currants, (me pound citron, nutmeg and cloves to taste; 
rub one-half pound flour with fruit ; steam two hours 
in a dish, then bake one hour. 

spon(;e cake. 

i\rrs. Tra Motcalf. 

Three eggs, one cup white sugar, one teaspoon of 
cream of tartar, one-half of soda, three tablespoons of 
boiling water, flour to thicken. 

FIG CAKE. H 

Mr«. Trusbio. 

For the white ptirt : Take two cups of sugar, two of 
tlour, two-thirds of sweotjuilk, one-half of butter, whites 
of ftve eggs, two teaspofl^ baking powder; bake this in 
two round tins like you ^ii-i jelly cake. For tig or dark 



-fourths 
ro tlible- 
d two of 
cake tiu 
ts to the 
ke. 



one cup 
nd flour, 
p pounds 
to taste; 
vo hours 



spoon of 
spoons of 



ir, two of 

dY, whites 
ke this in 
ig or dark 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



323 



part: Take one cup of brown sugar butter size of wal- 
nut, one cup flour, one cup chopped flgs, one-half cup 
sweet milk, one egg, one teaspoon b.iJung powder ; when 
done place the tig cake between the light cake, with a 
little frosting. 

SPONGE JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Three eggs beaten sei)arate. one cup sugar, one cup 
flour, two teaspoons baking powder put into the flour, 
and three tal)lespoons boiling wati-r. Mix all together 
and cook in jelly tins in a quick oven ; place either jelly 
or chocolate frosting between the cakes. 

CHOCOLATE FliOSTlNG. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One-half cup chocolate grated, one - p sugar, yolk of 
one egg, small cup half full of sweet milk ; put on stove 
and stir while cooking till it will candy when dropped 
in cold water. 

WASHINGTON CREAIM CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup sweet milk, four eggs, 
three cups flour, three even teaspoons baking powder, 

butter size of an egg. 

I'ltiffiLii 

/-i__,.- ^„T> \\T ,c.T,y^i^mnx3 rfivi.' — Oiif rvint of sweet 
milk, three eggs, one cu||;floiir, one sugar, flavour with 



#1 



^-^-^fmsittsmci^v, v™,.^«s»w^w,:.- 



1^' Is 



' '\i 



324 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



anything; after it is cooked add hall' cup butter, and 
place between the cakes as you wcjiild jelly. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

MrH. Carson. ^^ 



One cup molasses, «)ne cup brown sugar, one cup cold 
coffee, four cups sifted Hour, one-half cup butter, two 
teaspoons baking po\vder and a small teaspoon allspice. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. {'harlcH Ho;,'er.s. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one cup sifted 
flour, one-half cup corn starch, one-half cup milk, one 
teasjjoon of baking powder, four eggs, using the whites 
only. 

POUND CAKE. 

'" Mrs. Charles Rogers. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, four eggs beaten 
separately, one and one-half cups sifted Hour ; mix 
batter and sugar to a cream, then put in yolks beaten 
light, jhe flour and whites last. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Carson. 

One cup butter, two cups white sugar, one cup milk, 
three coli'ee-cups sifted flour, whites of six eggs beaten 
light, three even teasjioons of baking powder, one 
cocoanut grated ; do not use the milk of nut ; mix and 
bake in oven. 




VALUABLE RECIPES. 325 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One half cup ])uttor, two eups riiigar, half cup inilk, 
three of Hour, three teaspoons haking powder, and 
yolks of four eggs. 

For the silver cake use the same receipt, only in place 
of the yolks of eggs use the whites of four eggs. 

For marhle cake same receipt, using brown sugar one 
cup, and one cup molasses, and some spices, and drop 
in dish on the white cake or silver receipt. 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Mrs. Charles Rogers. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, two 
eggs, three teaspoons l)aking powder, put hi three cups 
sifted tloui-, llavour and add fruit. This receipt makes 
tw^o cakes. 

LEMON CHEESE CAKE. 

Mrs, C! arson. 

Two cups sugar, half cup butter, three-quarters cup 
sweet milk, whites of six eggs, three cups flour, three 
teaspoons baking powder. 

Sauce for Leaion Cheese Cake. — Grated rind and 
juice of two lemons, yolks of three eggs, half cup but- 
ter, one cup sugar ; mix all together, and sot on stove, 
and cook till thick as sponge, silrring all the time ; then 
use like jelly between the qflteb. 



'I 



VI 



u 



''•\ '.] 



M 



( : J 



III 



i i 



^.^ 



326 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

GINGEPt DROP CAKES. 

Mrs. Carson. 

Two cups of molasses, two cups of sugar, two cu])s of 
l)utt<'r or lard, two cups of sour milk, two tablespoons 
of soda, two spoons of ciiniamon, one of cloves, nine 
cups of Hour, and ginger to suit taste ; drop from spoon 
into a pan, and cook in oven, taking care not to burn. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. CarKon. 

One cup of l)utter, two cups of sugar, tbree and a balf 
cups of Hour, one cup of milk, two eggs, two teaspoons 
cream of tartar, one teaspoon soda ; stir all together with- 
out separating eggs ; put soda in milk, and stir the 
cream of tartar in Hour ; bake the same as jelly cake, 
and use frosting between made of whites of three eggs 
and fine white sugar. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. Taylor. 

Half cup of butter, one of sugar, one of Hour, one-half 
of corn starch, one-half cup of milk, one teaspoon of 
baking powder, four eggs, whites alone. 

CALIFORNIA CAKE. 

Mrs. Taylor. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, one cup of 
milk, two eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder, three 
cups of sifted flour, flavour, or add fruit. This make? 
two cakes. Bake in bread tins. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



'i^ 



327 



cups of 
espoons 
3S, nine 
n spoon 
burn. 



d a half 
aspoons 
[or witli- 
stir the 
ly cako, 
rec eggs 



one-half 
ipoon of 



) cup of 
3r, three 
3 make? 



PAN DADDLINGS. 

Mrs, Rogers. 

Four cups rye meal, two cups of Indian meal, one 
cup of molasses, plenty of suet, a little allspice, one egg, 
milk to thin it to a hatter that will drop from the spoon, 
one teaspoon of soda, three chopped apples ; fry in hot 
lard like fried cakes ; dip the spoon in the lard and dip 
up your hatter and drop into hot lard ; fry a light hrown. 

I'lUEI) CAKES. 

Mr.,. Carson. 

One cup of sugar, two eggs, half a cnp of shortening, 
one teaspoon of soda, one cup of sour milk, cut in rings ; 
have your lard very hot, in which place a peeled potato 
to keep lard from burning, and drop in your cakes ; they 
will come to the top of lard when light ; fry a dark 
brown; when taken out sprinkle sugar over them. 

FRENCH CAKES. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of sugar, half a cup of 
butter, one cup of milk, one wineglass of wine, three 
eggs, spice to taste, one teaspoon of soda ; rub the but- 
tri^and sugar together, then add the milk ; part of the 
ttour, soda in the wine next ; then the rest of the flour, 
and eggs beaten separately, the whites last ; bake in 

square tins. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Smith. 

One cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, half a cup of 
sweet milk, two cups of flour, three eggs, one and a-half 
teaspoonsful of baking powder ; bake in jelly tins. 



ll 



328 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Oranok FitosTixo FOR Samk.— One oran^'f, grate off 
the outside, and mix with juiee, and add siifrar until 
quite stiff, ano make like jeliy cake ; make four layers 
of tlie cake. 



MliS. ROGER'S CAKF.. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup water cold, whites of 
eleven eggs, three teaspoons of l)aking powder, one and 
one-half cups flour, two-thirds cup ))utter ; stir hutter 
a,nd sugar up together till it is light ; put whites into 
sugar and butter, flour and powder "in last. 



m 



MRS. ROGER'S POUND CAKE. 



Oi^e cup of butter, one of sugai-, four eggs beaten 
separately, one and one-half cups of sifted flour ; mix 
butter and sugar to a cream, theii ])iit in yolks beaten 
light, then flour and whites last. 



CORN STARCH CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One cup butter, three cups sugar, beaten to a cream, 
then add in the following order : two scant cups flour, 
whites of eight eggs, three teaspoons of baking powder 
mixed with flour, and lastly, one and one-half cups of 
corn starch mixed smooth in on( 



ip 



lavour 



as you please ; bake in an ordinary flat tin pan, and cut 
in diamonds when cold. 



, grate ofT 
ingar until 
our layers 



whites of 
r, one and 
stir butter 
liite.s into 



gs beaten 
lour ; mix 
Iks beaten 



I a cream, 
lilts flour, 
ig powder 
f cups of 
; flavour 
1, and cut 



X 



VAIiUABLK RECIPES. 32i) 

WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira ^lotcalf. 

Whites of eigli eggs, one and a half tumblers vhito 
6u-ar, one of nour, one teaspoon of cream of tartar, 
flavour to taste, bake in flat tins, and 'f you choose, ice 
with - chocolate icing" No. 1 ; cut m diamond shapes. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Irft Metcalf. 

One cup <^f butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk, three eggs, four teaspoons of baking powder, one 
large cocoanut grated. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. Kogere. 

One cup of butter, two cups of white sugar, one cup 
of milk, three coffee cups of flour, «^i^- of six eggs, 
well beaten, three teaspoons baking powder, onciiiicpa- 
nut grated ; do not use the milk of nut. 

COCOANUT CAKE MADE AS JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. ^ 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
milk five cups of flour, six teaspoons of baking powder, 
whites of eight eggs ; bake in jelly cake pans ; for dress- 
iucr to put between take the whites of six eggs beaten 
stiff half a pound of dessicated cocoanut, and one cup 

of powdered sugar. 
22 



I 



■;^sa«, Wi»si<s-««««, .-■ 



y 



^^^' THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

LEMOxN CHEESP] CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metealf. 

For the cake take part of two cups of susar, half a 
cup of butter, three-quarters of a cup of Bweet milk, 
whites of BIX eggs, three cui,h of flour, three teaspoons 
of baking powder. 

Jelly for Lemon Cheksk Cake. -Grated rind and 
. juice of two lemons, yolks of three eggs, half a cup of 
butttT, one cup of sugar, mix all together, and set .n 
the stove and cook till thick as sponge, taking care not 
to burn ; use like jelly between the cakes, or bake 
one squai-e cake and put the dressing on top and^cut in 
shape of diamonds. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Mrs. \V. A. Carson. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, five eggs, leav- 
ing out two of the whites ; one scant cup of milk, two 
full teaspoons of baking powder ; mix well in three cups 
of sifted flour ; bake in two long tins. 

For FaosTixo.-Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff 
fioth add a scant cup and a half of sugar; flavour with 
vanil a, six tablespoons grated chocolate • the cake must 
oe cola. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Mrs. W. A. Ciusoii. 

Three.,ju,.rt,.rK of a cup of butter beaten to a cream 
o.e cup of sugar; the yolU of eight eggs, two eups"f 

-l.oon 0. »oua diBsoived i„ half a cup of sweet milk. 



' Mi i lHIIMIi 



igar, half a 
Bweet milk, 
i teaspoons 

(I rind and 
If a cup of 
and set oii 
ig care not 
'H, or bake 
ancUciit in 



eggs, leav- 
' milk, two 
three cups 

to a stiff 

avour with 

cake must 



a cream, 
^o cups of 
lalf a tea- 
milk. 






I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 331 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

White Part. — One cup of butter, two cups of white 
sugar, half a cup of sour cream or l)uttermilk, three and 
a half cups o: Hour, whites of seven eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful of soda. 

Black Part.— Two cups of l)rown sugar, one cup r)f 
butter, one cup of molasses, five cups of flour, half a cup ' 
of sour cream or buttermilk, yolks of seven eggs, one 
grated nutmeg, two tablespoonsful of cinnamon, one 
tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoonful of allsj)ice, 
one teaspoonful of black pepper, one teaspoonful of 
soda. 

.TELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

One cupful of white sugar, three eggs, yolks and 
whites beaten separately ; one cup of Hour, from which 
a tablespoon of flour is taken and its place supplied by 
corn starch ; half a teaspoonful of soda, and one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar. If for sponge cake use 

four eggs. 

VELVET CAKE. 

Mrs. D. McCraney. 

Half pound of butter, one pound of pulverized sugar, 
one pound of flour, four eggs, one teacup of cold water, 
half teaspoonful of soda, one of cream of tartar, flavour to 
taste ; bake an hour, add fruit and spice if desired, or 
make into chocolate cake by being baked as jelly cake. 



"T«3^E^^aiiiaa^^ 






332 




:t 1 



!l 




THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



LINCOLN FRUIT CAKE. 



Mrs. D. McCraney. 

One pound of butter, one pound of brown sugar, one 
])uund of Hour, six eggs, two cups c^" sour cream or 
'outteruiilk, one grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful of 
powdered cinnamon, one tablespoonful of rose water, 
lemon peel and fruit to taste, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water and stirred into the milk just be- 
fore adding it to the cake. 

CKEAM CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One pint of good cream, two tablespoons flour, one- 
half cup white sugar, whites of two eggs well beaten ; 
bake in flat tins and frost with soft frosting. 

CREAM CAKE NO. 2. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

One cup of cream, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, 
two eggs, one teaspoon of soda. 

SILVER CAKE. 

Mrs. Ira Metcalf. 

Two cups of line white sugar, two and one-half cups 
of sifted Hour, one-half cup of butter, one-quarter cup of 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoon of soda dissolved in the 
milk, one teaspoon of cream of tartar, the whites of 
eight eggs. Flavour to taste. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Five eggs, one and one-half cups of flour, one and 



I 

i 



up;ar, one 
cream or 
oouful of 
ise water, 
il of soda 
k just be- 



lour, one- 
1 beaten ; 



8 of flour, 



half cups 
ter cup of 
ed in tbe 
whites of 



VALUABLE RECIPEH. 



333 



one and 



one-half cups sugar, one-third cup of water, one-quarter 
teas poon soda, one-half cream of tartar ; llavour with 
lemon. 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. U. Baird. 

Three eggs, a small teacup of sugar, one cu}) of Hour, 
whites and yolks of the eggs beaten together ; tiavour, 
and bake in two layers, in a (luick oven. 

COCOANUT CAKE. 

Mrs. H. IJaird. 

Three ( .i^gs, one cup of sugar, one cup of milk, two 
cups and one-half of flour, one tablespoon of butter, one 
teaspo( 11 of soda, two teaspoons of cream of tartar. 
Beat with a fork. Add milk and whites of the eggs to- 
gether ; only half of the whites ; keep the rest for icing 
with cocoanut. 

LUCY'S TEA CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, ^ne-half cup of uutter, 
one teacup of milk, two cups of i^-m; and a few currams. 
•CORN ST' 11 CAKE. 

Mrs. Baird. 

Whites of six egf^s. one cup of butter, two cups of 
flour, one cup of corn starch, two cups of sugar, one cup 
Qf g-weet milk, one-half teaspoon of soda, one ot cieam 
of tartar. 



I 



1 Isi 



^^,,««i*i***f»:'i 



i '* :« 



f^. I 



834 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CAKE— WASHINGTON. 

Mrs. J. II. Mead. 

(3ne and three-quarters pounds of flour, one and one- 
quarter of a pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, four t'ggs, a wine glass of brandy and one of 
wine, one pint of milk, a teaspoon of soda, one nutmeg, 
two pounds of raisins, eurrants, and candied fruit. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. II. MoaJ. 

One dozen eggs, ten ounces of flour, one pound line 
white sugar ; break the eggs into the sugar, place on the 
stove and heat till milk warm, then take them oft' and 
beat till quite cold ; flavour with essence of lemon, gtir 
in the flour very lightly ; butter your baking tins and 
sift sugar all over the bottom and sides ; put in the 
mixture, sift sugar on the top and bake in a very 
moderate oven. 



:> 



LEMON CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Half a cup of milk, half a cup of butter, two small 
cups of sugar, three small cups of flour, whites of four 
eggs, two teaspoons of cream of tartar, one teaspoon of 
soda ; flavour with lemon ; beat the butter to a cream, 
add eggs well whipped, then sugar ; mix cream of tartar 
in the fiour, and soda in milk. 



q!--'aw*a(Mi"™K 



?) and one- 
)!' a pound 
nd one of 
e nutmeg, 
fruit. 



pound line 
lace on the 
3m off and 
emon, gtir 
; tins and 
put in the 
in a very 



two small 
;es of four 
easpoon of 
) a cream, 
oa of tartar 



t 



VALl-AMLE RECIPES. 3S5 

JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of butter, 
one and a half cups of Hour, one tablespoon of baking 
powder, two-thirds of a cup of milk ; beat the butter to 
a cream, and add the yolks of the eggs well beaten ; beat 
the whites to a froth and add them to the sugar ; mix all 
together ; then put in the flour with the baking powder 
well mixed in ; last of all add the milk ; flavour with 
essence. 

DELICATE CAKE. 

Mrs. J. H. Mead. 

The whites of twelve eggs, three-quarters of a pound 
of butter, three-quarters of a pound of sugar, one pound 
of flour, two tablespoonsful of milk, two tablespoonsful 
Cook's Friend. Beat the eggs to a froth, beat butter 
and sivmv to a cream ; mix the baking powder well with 
the flour, and add milk. If half corn starch is used m 
place of flour it will be an improvement, and if for jelly 
cakes bake in square tins, and when cold cut into shces ; 
they are delicious filled with lemon honey in place of 

jelly. 

RICE CAKE. 

Mrs. Mackie. 

Riv oaa^ one onn of white sugar, two cups of ground 
rice ; beaten thoroughly. 



m 






«530 THE IIO.^IE COOK BOOK. 

COliN STARCH CAKES. 

Mrs. Maekie. 

One cup of Hour, one cup of cornstarch, one cup of 
sugar, half cup of butter, whites of four eggs, half cup of 
sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda. 

CLOYE CAKE. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups of sugar, one cup-of 
butter, one cup of chopped raisins, one-half cvrp' of 
sweet milk, two cups of Hour, one tablespoon of cloves, 
one-half teaspoon of soda. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two pounds of raisins, stoned, two pounds of cur- 
rants, one pound of butter, one pound of sugar, one and 
one-quarter pounds of flour, ten eggs, one wine glass of 
brandy, one wine glass of Mine, one ta1)lespoon of cloves, 
one tablespoon of allspice, two tablespoons of cinnamon, 
one nutmeg, one teaspoon of sweet almond-meats 
blanched and cut in slices, two ounces candied lemon, 
two ounces citron ; a little molasses improves it, nearly 
a teacup ; flour the fruit, using it out of that weighed 
out for the cake ; put a half teaspoonful of soda or one 
teaspoonful of baking powder with it on the fruit ; bake 
three hours, slowlv. 

POUND CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, one pound of butter, one 
l)0und of flour ; llnvonr with lemon : beat tb.e ])nttera]id 
sugar together, tlien add the yolks well beaten, after 



ii 



**"'■'"' "■'"^''Jtf—iiMrmSHI^^'^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



337 



^ 



ne cup of 
lalf cup of 
ilf of soda. 



me cup^f 
If cxfp' of 
of cloves, 



s of cur- 
, one and 
e glass of 
of cloves, 
iniiamon, 
nd-meats 
id lemon, 
it, nearly 
; weighed 
la or one 
lit ; bake 



itter, one 
liter and 
en, after 



them the whites ; beat to a stiff froth, then add tiour. 
Half a pound of tigs and same of almonds sliced makes 
it very nice. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

White Part. — Whites of seven eggs, two cups «ff 
white sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet milk, 
four cups of Hour, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, 
one teaspoon of soda. 

Brown Part. — Yolks of seven eggs, two cups of brown 
sugar, one cup of molasses, one cup of sour milk, one 
cup of butter, five cups of flour, two tablespoonsful of 
cloves, one nutmeg, one teaspoon and a half of soda. 

PLAIN SPONGE CAKt. 

One egg, one teacup of sugar, one cuj) of sweet milk, 
two cups and a half of flour, one dessert spoon of butter, 
two teaspoons cream of tartar, one teaspoon of soda, 
and a little sa^'. Bake fifteen minutes in pans size of 
a breakfast T - > 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, one cup of coffee cold, one cup of currants, 
one teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of mixed spices, 
two or four eggs, flour to thicken. 

CAKES WITHOUl: BUTTER. 

Five ecfCTH well beaten, volks and whites separately, 
one pound of powdered sugar ; when well mixed let it 



a 



>«i«S»teti% 






i f 



338 



THE HOME COOK DOOK. 



stand nil hour, then add one pound of flour, chop the 
mixture in very small cakes on tin plates; any flavour- 
ing may he used. 



CO^rPOSITION CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Five cups of flour, two cups of hutter, three of sugar, 
one of milk, five eggs, one teaspoon of soda, two of cream 
of tartar, fruit as you please, cinnamon, nutmeg and 
clove to taste. 

FRUIT LOAF. 

Mrs. H. Haird. 

One pint of bread sponge, one cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of molasses, one of butter, half cup of sweet 
milk, one cup of raisins, one of currants, a little lemon 
and citron peel, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one tea- 
spoon of cloves, one of allspice, two or three eggs. Beat 
eggs, ))utter and sugar, add all together with flour 
enough to stiffen as an ordinarv fruit cake. 



m 



ORANGE CAKE AS JELLY CAKE. 

Mrs. H. Baird. 

Cake part. — Five eggs, two cups of sugar, two cups 
of flour, half a cup of cold water, one teaspoon of cream 
of tartar, half a teaspoon of soda. Dressing — Use the 
grated rind of one large orange, and the juice ; stiffen 
with the white of one egg and sugar. 



chop the 
flavour- 



of sugar, 
of cream 
meg and 



m sugar, 
of sweet 
le lemon 
, one tea- 
gs. Beat 
ith flour 



wo cups 
of cream 

-Use the 
: stiffen 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

GINGEK NUTS. 



339 



Mrs. H. Baird. 

One and thvee-quarter pounds of syrup, one pound of 
moist sugar, one pound of butter, two and three-quarter 
pounds of flour, one and a half ounces of ground gniger, 
one and a half ounces of allspice, one and a half ounces 
of coriander seed, salvolatile size of a hean, a little 
cayenne. Hour enough to roll out hut not thin, cut with 
a wineglass or roll between your hands into small balls 

^"' ''"'''''- GINGER CAKE. 

Mrs. 11. Bainl. 

One cup of molasses, half a cup of butter, two-thirds 
of a cup of water, one teaspoon almost full of ginger 
two teaspoons of soda ; mix in tlour enough to let it 
drop off the spoon ; bake in a tin about two inches deep. 

CUP CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of 
flour, four eggs, a teaspooiiful of soda dissolved m a cup 
of milk, two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar mixed mto 
the flour ; flavour with essence of any kind. 

ALMOND CAKE. 

Stir two eggs with half a pound of white sugar till 
verv hght; half a pound of unpeeled split almonds as 
xuuchsoda as will lie on the point of a knife, half a 
pound of flour ; roll it out and then put into a flat tin ; 
brush it over with the yolk of an egg ; bake ti^^l ^ 
brown ; then cut into long slices ; set them on e(.ge an_ 
roast them. 



m 



H 



«' 



L. ifir-i t #iw fa.": 




340 



THE HOxME COOK BOOK. 

LEMON HONEY. 



i our ounces of butter, one pound of sugar, six eggs 
leaving out two whites ; grate the rinds of three lemons 
and add the juice. Let all simmer over the lire till it 
becomes of the consistency of honey. Great care must 
be taken that it does not burn. 

FliUIT'CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one pound of sugar, three-quar- 
ters of a pound of butter, two pounds raisins, two pounds 
currants, one pound mixed peel, one-quarter pound al- 
monds, two ounces mace, ten eggs, rose water and 
brandy. 

BIRTHDAY CAKE. 

One pound and a half of line sugar, one pound and a 
half of butter, theee pounds and one-half of currants, two 
pounds of flour, one-half pound candied peel, one-half 
pound almonds, two ounces spices, the grated rind of 
three lemons, eighteen eggs, one gill of brandy. Paper 
the hoops, and bake three hours. Ice when cold. 

NELL'S CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two of sugar, five eggs, leaving out 
two ot the whites, one scant cu]) r mUk^ two full tea- 
spoons of baking powder ; mix w. in three cups flour • 
bake in two long shallow tins. Dressing: Beat the whites 
of the two eggs to a stiff froth, add a scant cup and a 
half of sugar ; flavour with vanilla, add six tablespoons 
of grated chocolate ; add the dressing when the cake is 
cold, and cut in diamond slices. 



-"''^5«-w^(iBijfmi«i(^- 



CU. 



r, SIX eggs, 
ree lemons 
3 lire till it 
care must 



hree-quar- 
wo pounds 
pound al- 
i^ater and 



md and a 
rants, two 
one-half 
d rind of 
r. Paper 
Id. 



iving out 
full tea- 
ps flour ; 
10 whites 
p and a 
lespoons 
3 cake is 



VALUABLE BECIPES. 341 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Mrs. S. McMaster. 

Two cups of Hour, two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
water, two teaspoons of baking powder, yolks of five 
eggs, whites of three ; bake like jelly cake. Dressing- 
Whites of the two eggs, grate the rind of two oranges, 
add the juice, sugar to thicken; put this het\\een the 
cakes and set back in the oven for a minute. 



• fi 




1 



j^.fJaaa ->m».t', r 



,2Sr*?'.X,i**ti«i«»*i 



DRINKS. 




Tho bubbling and loud IiisKing urn, 
Throws up a stoaniing column ; and the cups 
That cheer, but not ineuriato, wait on each ; 
So let us welcome peaceful evening in. 



— CoWPER. 



TEA. 



Wheu the water in the tea-kettle begins to boil, have 
ready a tin tea-steeper ; pour into the tea-steeper just a 
very little of the boiling water, and then put in tea, 
allowing one teaspoon of tea to each p rson. Pour over 
this boiling water until the steeper is little more than 
half full ; cover tightly and let it stand where it will 
keep hot, but not to boil. Let the tea infuse for ten or 
fifteen minutes, and then pour into the tea urn, adding 
more boiUng water, in the proportion of one cup of 
water for every teaspoon of dry tea which has been 
infused. Have boihng water in a water pot, and weaken 
each cup of tea as desired. Do not use water for tea 
that has boiled long. Spring water is best for tea, and 
filtered water next-best. 

TEA A LA EUSSE. 

Pare and slice fresh, juicy lemons ; lay a piece in the 
bottom of each cup, sprinkle with white sugar, and pour 
hot, strong tea over. Or the lemon may be sent around 
in sHces with the peel on. No cream is used. 



■3S8SS 



««f\.. 



PER. 



boil, have 
eper just a 
•ut ill tea, 

Pour over 
more than 
lere it will 

for ten or 
rn, adding 
lie cup of 

has been 
nd weaken 
ler for tea 
r tea, and 



iece in the 
■, and pour 
Bnt around 




VALUABLE RECIPES. 

ICED TEA A LA RUSSE. 



848 



To each glass of tea add tlie juice of half a lemon, fill 
up the glass with pounded ice and sweeten. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Scrape Baker's chocolate line, mix with a little cold 
water and the yolks of eggs well beaten ; add this to 
equal parts of milkman i water, and boil well, !)eing care- 
ful that it does not burn. Sweeten to taste and serve 

hot. 

COFtEE. ^ 

Miss Riley. 

The following is a delicious dish either for summer 
breakfast or dessert : Make a strong infusion of mocha 
coffee ; put it in a porcelain bowl, sugar it properly and 
add to' it an equal portion of boiled milk, or one-third 
the quantity of a rich cream. Surround the bowl with 
pounded ice. 

Roasting Coffer.— This process should be carefully 
watched and superintended. When the berry crackles 
and becomes crisp it is su i'ticiently roasted. Once taken 
off the roaster, it should be placed in several thick folds 
of flannel, to preserve the oil and aroma. When cool, 
place it in an air-tight cannister. 

CURRANT WINE. 

Mrs. J. P. Odell. 

One quart currant juice, three pounds of sugar, suf- 
ficient water to make a gallon. 



I 






ijLMiUJKi'fWi;:'- ■■-tH.'^^'^' 



S^^S^^&^liWi 



m: 



% 



•;6 



344 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

Mrs. John Morse. 

Four pouii'ls of white sugar; fiix quarts of water, put 
over a slow fire, milk warm, add whites of two eggs wel 
heaten ; bring the whole to nearly boiling pomt; let boi 
and strain immediately ; when cold add six ounces of 
tartaric acid; flavour with lemon; a wineglass to bo 
used in a tumbler of water ; add half a teaspoonful ox 

baking soda. 

SODA CREAM. 

M. G. Band. 
• Two and one-half pounds white sugar, one-eighth 
pound tartaric acid, both dissolved in one quart of hot 
water ; when cold, add the beaten whites of three eggs 
stirring well ; bottle for use. Put two large spoons of 
this syrup in a glass of cold water, and stir m it one- 
fourth of a spoon of bicarbonate of soda. Any tiavour 
can be put in the syrup. An excellent drink for summer. 

RASPBERRY ACID. 

Mrs. G. W. Pitkin. 

Dissolve five ounces of tartaric acid in two quarts of 
water ; pour it upon twelve pounds of red raspberries in 
a large bowl ; let it stand twenty-four hours ; strain it 
without pressing; to a pint of this liquor add one and a 
half pounds of white sugar ; stir until dissolves. Bot- 
tle but do not cook for several days, when it is ready for 
use. Two or three tablespoons in a glass of ice wiiiux 
will make a delicious beverage. 



1 



I 



vater, put 
> eggs well 
t; let boil 
ounces of 
ass to bo 
poonful of 



-WBUABLE RECIPES. ^' 

RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrn. W. S. Walker. 

To lour .luarts red raspberries, put enough vinegar to 
cover, and let them stand twenty-four hours ; scald and 
strain it ; add a pound of sugar to one pint of juice ; 
boil it twentv minutes, and bottle ; it is then ready for 
use and will keep years. To one glass of water add a 
great spoonful. It is much relished by the sick. \ ery 
nice. 



11! 



one-eighth 
art of hot 
three eggs, 
spoons of 
r in it one- 
ny flavour 
3r summer. 



RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 

Mrs. Joseph B. Leake. 

Fill a jar with red raspberries picked from the stalks. 
Pourinasmuch vinegar as it will hold. Let it stand 
ten days, then strain it through a sieve. Don't press 
the berries, just let the juice run through. To every 
pint add one pound loaf sugar. Boil it like other syrup ; 
skim, and bottle when cold. 



,•0 quarts of 
spberries in 
5 ; strain it 
I one and a 
)lves. Bot- 
is ready for 
^f ice water 



1 

\ 



BLACKBERRY SYRUP. 

Mrs. Bausher. 

To one pint of juice, put one pound of white sugar, 
one-half ounce of powdered cinnamon, one-fourth ounce 
mace, and two teaspoons cloves; boil all together for 
quarter of an hour, then strain the syrup, and add to 
each pint a glass of Krench brandy. 

23 



■■ *^^KF,-' ".sSlI^^ 



-^.«Ks^^^sas^-..^s,^.^.:i;^^^^^^^,li^^ ^^4 



!'■! 



m : 



84G 



THE l[OMK COOK BOOK. 

LEMON SYllUP. 

Mrs. Do Forrest- 



Par., off tl.c yeU..w ri.ul of the len.o.., slice ho lemon 
, ! mr of lemon and a thick layer of BUgar u» 
"v ' ,H ove lose «ith a B.ucer, and set n, a 
:;';;' ;;lt • ^n. .s an e.cel.ent .-emeay for a cold. 

SPLENDID (lINGEli BKEU. 

Mrs. H. I'. IlrUtul. 
Five aallon^ of water, one-lialf pouncl ginger root 
JX^:^^^>unas of sugar, one-ei^U.po^ 
of tartar, on. Lottie of eBsence of lemon, one 
tartaric acid, one quart of yeast. 

GINGEK WINE. 

Mrs. Olipliant. 

One half pound of cmnamon hark, four ounces of 
pirn ttoU-o ounces of mace, three quarter o^an oune. 
of capsicum, three quarters of a pound of Ring r lOOt 
five gallons of alcohol; macerate and stram oi f^t«, 

stand six months before use. 

GINGER WINE. 

Mrs. Betts. 

I»OREDm«s : Ten gallons of water, one pound bruised 









I 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



S47 



,lie lemon 
; sugar in 
I set in a 
a cold. 



finger root 
id of cream 
e ounce of 



: ounces of 
of an ounce 
ginger root, 
in or filter, 
yrup, thirty 
a,cid,oneand 
warm water, 
oft water to 
al and let it 



jound bruised 






ginger, thirty-two pounds raw suf^ar, ten lemons, ton 
Seville oranges, four i)t>unds of raisins, onc-hal ounce 
of isinglass. Peel the fruit, and express the juice. 
Boil the water, ginger, and sugar half an hour ; pour it 
boiling hot upon the peel ; add the juice. When nearly 
cold put in a little yeast spread upon a toast. Let it 
stand three days, stirring it twice a day ; then put it 
into a cask with the raisins and isinglass. Continue 
stirring twice a day for ten days. It must not be stop- 
ped tin it has ceased to ferment. Fit for use in three 

months. 

RED CURRANT WINE. 

MrH. Belts. 

For every gallon of water take one gallon of currants 
off the stalks, briiise well a ul i -t .hem stand over night. 
Next morning mash them v;«il vv rh your hands and 
strain through a hair sie e To )very gallon of the 
liquor add four pounds of su i. tlinse the cask well 
with brandy and strain the li-iuor i-gain when putting 
in, by which you will see whether tiie sugar is dissolved. 
Lay the bung lightly on and stop it up in ten days. 

BOSTON CREAM (A SUMMER DRINK). 

Mrs. Kerr. 

Make a syrup of four pounds of white sugar with four 
quarts of water ; boil ; when cold add four ounces of tar- 
taric acid, one and a half ounces of essence of lemon, 
and the whites of six eggs beaten to a stiff froth ; bottle. 
A winedass of the cream to a tumbler of water, with 
sufficient carbonate of soda to make it effervesce. 



I 



f,\ 



348 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

HOT MULLED WINE. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

To every pint of wine allow one large cup of water, 
one tablespoon of sugar, half a salt spoon of cloves, half 
a salt spoon of cinnamon, half a salt spoon of nutmeg. 
First tie your spices in a muslin bag, and put the water 
mto a porcelain saucepan with the spices, and when it 
has simmered a few minutes add the wine. 

CHAMPAGNE CUP. 

Mrs. Bendelari. 

One quart bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda 
water one liqueur glass of brandy, two tablespoons of 
powdered sugar, a few thin strips of cucumber rmd ; 
make this just in time for UF.e, and add a large piece of 

ice 

CLAEET CUP. 

Mrs. Bendelari, 

One quart bottle of clar-^t, one bottle of soda water, 
one lemon cut very thin, four tablespoons of powdered 
sugar, quarter of a teaspoon of grated nutmeg, one 
liqueu'r glass of brandy, one wine glass of sherry wine. 
Half an hour before it is to be used, put in a large piece 
of' ice, so that it may get perfectly cold. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Mrs. Christopher Patterson. 

Seven pounds of loaf sugar, three quarts of water, 
four ounces of citric acid, one d achm of oil of lemon. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



349 



3f water, 
oves, half 
nutmeg, 
the water 
\ when it 



8 of soda 
spoons of 
ber rind ; 
;e piece of 



Dda water, 
powdered 
;meg, one 
erry wine, 
arge piece 



of water, 
of lemon. 



Dissolve acid in warm water ; mix ; don't put the acid 
in a brass kettle; when quite cold put in the oil of 
lemon and bottle. 

GINGER LIQUEUR. 

Mrs. Christopher Patterson. 

One gallon of strong malt whiskey, four pounds of 
lump sugar dissolved in one pint of boiling water, five 
ounces of bitter almonds, five ounces of sweet almonds, 
five ounces of bruised ginger, the rind of six lemons ; 
mix all in a jar ; in five or six days filter and bottle- 

ESSENCE OF GINGER. 

Mrs. Christoplicr Patterson. 

Infuse four ounces of well bruised ginger, and an 
ounce of lemon peel sliced thin in a pint and a half of 
strong rectified spirits (of brandy); let it bo closely 
stopped and shaken every day. 

RED CURRANT CORDIAL. 

Mrs. Spence. 

To two quarts of red currants, put one quart of 
whiskey; let it stand twenty-four hours, then bruise and 
strain through a flannel bag. To every two quarts of 
this liquor, add one pound of loaf sugar, and quorter of 
a pound of ginger well })ruised and boiled ; let the whole 
stand to settle, then straia or filter; bottle and cork, 
seal the corks tightly. 

N. B.— It is an improvement to have half red raspberry 
juice if the flavour is liked. The above is fit for use in 
a month. 



i 



»!«*^ii«W'i'»*irt,ftiiM4«,«e&Bi,i-i 



350 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

WHITE CURRANT CORDIAL. 

Mrs. Spencc, 

To every (luart of white currants bruised, add one 
quart of best whiskey, the rind of a fresh lemon pared 
very thin, let it stand for two days, then strain or filter. 
To the above add one pound of loaf sugar, quarter of an 
ounce of the best ginger, and juice of the lemon. Bottle 
and seal ; it will be fit for use in a month, and the longer 
it is kept the better it is. 

CHERRY WHISKEY. 

Mrs. Spence. 

Take eight quarts of fine ripe cherries ; put them into 
a jar, then pour over them six quarts of either good whis- 
key or brandy ; let it stand for a month, then take out 
the fruit, bruise it in a mortar, put it back into the liquor, 
and let it stand another mouth ; strain off the liquor, 
and to every quart add three-quarters of a pound of loaf 
sugar made into a syrup ; pour boiling hot into the cold 
liquor ; let it stand to settle and cool ; when quite cold 
bottle and cork well. Excellent, and improves by keep- 
ing. 

BLACK CURRANT CORDIAL. 

Mrs. Speucc. 

To every four quarts of black currants, picked from 
the stems and lightly bruised, add one gallon of the best 
whiskey ; let it remain four months, shakhig the jar 
occasionally ; then drain off the liquor and strain ; add 



m^^ 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



351 



add one 
on pared 
or filter, 
rter of an 
1. Bottle 
he longer 



bhem into 
ood whis- 
take out 
he liquor, 
le liquor, 
nd of loaf 
o the cold 
[uite cold 
} hy keep- 



died from 
tf the best 
5 the jar 
:ain ; add 



r 



three pounds of loaf sugar and a quarter of a pound of 
best cloves, slightly bruised ; bottle well and seal. 

GINGEll CORDIAL. 

To one pound of picked currants, red or black, add 
one quart of whiskey, one ounce of bruised ginger ; put 
in a stone jar and let it stand for twenty-four or thirty- 
six hours ; strain through a flannel bag, and add half a 
pound of sugar ; when it is all melted, bottle. 

CHERRY CORDIAL. 

To six pounds of cherries add three pounds of sugar 
and one gallon of whiskey. Shake the jar often for the 
first three weeks, then bottle. 

LEMON SYRUP. 

Pour six quarts of boiling water on five pounds of 
white sugar, one and a half ounces of tartaric acid, and 
a little whole ginger ; let stand till cold ; then add one 
small bottle of essence of lemon. Strain and hot' 

CREAM NECTAR. 

MrH. Sponce. 

Dissolve two pounds of crushed sugar in three quarts 
of water ; boil down to two quart*' ; drop in the white 
of an egg while boiling ; then strain, and put in the tar- 
taric acid ; when cold drop in the lemon to your taHte ; 
then bottle and 3ork. Shake two or throe times a day. 



1: f! 




352 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

HOP BEER. 

Mrs. Dickinson. 

One handful of hops, boil an hour, strain, and add 
one pint of molasses, and enough water to make two 
gallons. When milk-warm, add one cup or cake of 
yeast ; let it stand over night ; skim and pour it off from 
the yeast carefully; add one tablespoon of wintergreen, 
and bottle for use. 



^i:J 



and add 
make two 
r cake of 
it off from 
ntergreen, 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



LIME WATER. 

Mrs. E. B. Lynde. 



One of the most useful agents of household economy, 
if rightly understood, is lime water. Its mode of prepa- 
ration is as follows : Put a stone of fresh unslacked 
lime about the size of a half-peck measure into a large 
stone jar or unpainted pail, and pour over it slowly and 
carefully, (so as not to slacken too rapidly,) a teakettle 
full (four gallons,) of hot water, and stir thoroughly ; 
let it settle, and then stir again two or three times in 
twenty-four hours. Then bottle carefully, all that can 
be poured off in a clear and limpid state. 

Uses.— It is often sold bv druggists as a remedy for 
children's summer complaints, a teaspoon being a dose 
in a cup of milk, and when diarrhcea is caused by acid- 
ity of the stomach, it is an excellent remedy, and when 
put into milk gives no unpleasant taste, but rather im- 
proves the flavour. 

When put into milk that might curdle when heated, 
it will prevent its so doing, and can then be used for 
puddings and pies. A little stirred into cream or milk, 
after a hot day or night, will prevent its turning when 
used for tea or coffee. 

It is unequalled in cleansing botthjs or small milk 
vessels, or babies' nursing bottles, as it sweetens and 



854 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Ui 



purifieB without leaving an unpleasant odour or flavour. 

A cupful, or even more, mixed in the spDuge of bread 

or cakes made over night, -will prevent it from souring. 

PREbElWING AUTUMN LEAVES. 

Mrs. €. H. Wheelflv. 
These may be easily preserved and retain their natu- 
ral tints, or nearly so, by either of the following method:: : 
As they are gathered tliey may be laid between the 
leaves of a magazine until the Look is full, and 1.' ft with 
a light wei>,dit upon them until the moisture of the 
loaves has been absorbed ; two or three thicknesses of 
paper should intervene between the leaves, ff the leaves 
are large or in clusters, take newspapers, lay theiu on a 
shelf ar d use in the same manner as above. Then -lip 
the kuves into uieliod wax (such as is used for moahling 
fruits, etc.) into »» Uich you will have to put a few drops 
of turpentine and li;y i-p'>u newspapers to harden per- 
fectly. This will miil.« the leaves pliable and natrtral, 
and gives suiHioierst gloss. Great care should be taken 
that the wax. is of right temperature. This can be 
ascertained by the first hsaf which is dipped in. Draw 
out gently over the pan both sides of the leaf and hold 
it up by the ;stem. If the wax is too hot the leaf will 
viirivel — if too cool it will harden in lumps on the leaf. 
Another method is to iron each leaf with a middling 
hot iron until the moisture is all out of them. Are best 
without varnish. 

SKELETON LEAVES. 
Boil the leaves in equal parts of rain water and soft 
soap until you can separate the pulp from the skin ; 




VALUABLE RECIPES. 



356 



' i 



)r flavour. 
! of bread 



L souring. 



heir natu- 

methodi- : 

;ween th» 

i Itft with 

re of the 

messes of 

the leaves 

\,\uy::i on u, 

Then lip 

moulding 

few drops 

irden per- 

d natrii'al, 

il be taken 

is can be 

in. Draw 

f and hold 

le leaf will 

n the leaf. 

\ middling 

Are best 



er and soft 
the skin ; 



take them out into clear water ; lay the leaf to be cleaned 
on glass, the upper side of the leaf next to the glass ; 
then with a tooth brush remove all pulp and skin, turn 
the l(!af and repeat the process ; when thorou.qhly done 
I)ut the leaf to bleach in this solution : One pound sal 
soda, dissolved in live pints rain water ; one-half pound 
chloride of lime, in three pints water ; allow twenty-four 
hours for the latter to dissolve. Strain out the sediment, 
and pour out the clear solution of lime into the solution 
of sal soda. The result will be a thick butter-milk solu- 
tion, otherwise the lime was not strong enough. Filter 
this until it is perfectly clear. For leaves, use one part 
of solution to one part of water ; for ferns, use the solu- 
tion full strength. When p.-fectly white, remove to 
clear water ; let stand for several hours, changing two 
or three times ; the last water should be a little blue ; 
float out on paper, press in books when nearly dry. In 
mounting use mucilage made of five parts of gum arable, 
three parts white sugar, two parts of starch ; add a very 
little water, boil and stir until thick and white. 

TO RESTORE FROZEN PLANTS. 

R. H. Knapp. 

As sooLi as discovered, pour cold water over the plant 
wetting every leaf thoroughly. In a few moments it 
will be crystallized with a thick coating of ice. In this 
state place it in the dark, carefully covered with a news- 
paper. The ice will slowly meii, leaving the plant in 
its original state of health. 



1 



p.^tfS'Oi 



356 THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

FOB CRYSTALLIZING GRASS. 

Mrs. Ludlam. 

Take onoand one-half pounds of rock alum, pour on 
three pints of hoiling water ; when quite cool put into a 
wide-mouthed vessel, hang in your grasses, a few at a 
time. Do not let them get too heavy, or the stems will 
not sui)port them. You may again heat alum and add 
more grasses. By adding a little colouring it will give 
variety-. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One ounce of lard, one ounce of spermaceti, one ounce 
of camphor, one ounce of almond oil, one-half cake of 
white wax ; melt and turn into moulds. 

CAMPHOR ICE. 

Mrs. Bartlett. 

One-half ounce each of camphor gum and white wax, 
spermaceti and sweet oil ; melt slowly the hard ingre- 
dients and then add the oil. 

COLD CREAM. 

Mrs. Anna Marble. 

Four ounces sweet almond oil, two ounces of rose 
water, two ounces of white wax, two ounces of cocoa 
butter, two of sjiermaceti ; put a bowl in a pan of boiling 
water; cut the spermaceti, white wax, and cocoa butter 
in small pieces ; put them in the bowl, also the oil and 
rose water. When melted, stir contents until cold. 



m, pour on 
put into a 

a fow at a 
stems will 

m and add 

i will give 



one ounce 
alf cake of 



white wax, 
lard ingre- 



es of rose 

!8 of COCOfi 

n of boiling 
Dcoa butter 
;he oil and 
1 cold. 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 

TO BEAUTIFY TEETH. 



857 



Dissolve two ounces of borax in three pints of boiling 
water, and before it is cold add one teaspoon of spirits 
of camphor ; bottle it for use. A teaspoon of this with 
an equal quantity of tepid water. 

HAIR TONIC. 

Mrs. A. M. 

One-half ounce sugar of lead, one-half ounce of lac 
sulphur, one quart of rose water, six tablespoons castor 

° * FOE CLEANING HAIRBRUSHES. 

Mr8. C. H. Wheeler. 

Use spirits of ammonia and hot water ; wash them 
well and shake the water out, drying on a coarse towel ; 
they will look white and clean as new. Little or no 
soap is needed. 

TO CLEAN HAIRBRUSHES. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Do not use soap, but put a tablespoon of hartshorn 
into the water, having it only tepid, and dip up and 
down until clean ; then dry with the brushes down, and 
they will be like new ones. If you do not have ammo- 
nia, use soda ; a teaspoonful dissolved in the water will 
do very well. 

JAPANESE CLEANSING CREAM. 

One-fourth pound of white castile soap, three ounces 
of ammonia, one of ether, one of spirits of wine, one of 



«» 



358 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



\'A 



glycerine ; cut the soap line and dissolve in one quart of 
rain water ; then add four quarts rain water, and then 
all the ingredients. For cleansing silks. 

SALT OF l.RMON TO TAKE OUT IRON RUST. 

^.■.•;, \;. 
One ounce of crcai.i tartix, o.ie ounce of salt of sorrel. 

STARCH POLISH. 

Mrs. C. Patterson. 

Take one ounce of spermaceti and one ounce of white 
wax, melt and run it into a thin cake on a plate. A 
piec(> the flzc of a quarter dollar added to a quart of 
prepared starch gives a heautiful lustre to the clothes 
and pre\ ents the iron from sticking. 

COUGH MLXTURE. 

Mrs. C. Patterson. 

Two ounces of gum arable, one ounce of paregoric 
elixir, two ounces of sugar candy, juice of one lemon ; 
mix with six glass. 3 of hot water. One wineglass to be 
taken morning, noon, and night. 

TO KEEP EGGS FOR WINTER USE. 

Mrs. C. Patterson. 

Take a pint of unsla^ iied lime, ana a pint of salt ; 
put them into a pail of water ; the eggs must be well 
covered with the mixture. 



f'^ 



no (jiiart of 
, and then 



)N RUST. 



t of sorrel. 



ce of white 

plate. A 

I quart of 

le clothes 



paregoric 
16 lemon ; 
3[lass to be 



3E. 



t of salt ; 
3t be well 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 359 

RECEIPT FOR COLD. 

Miss J. B, Riley. 

One pound of liverwort put into fou quarts of water 
and boiled down to one quart ; add, while warm, a ([uar- 
ter pound of ball li luorice and a quarter pound of loaf 
sugar ; when cool add a half pint of ghi. Dose — half a 
large wineglass half an hour before each meal. 

FOR CLOTHES THAT FADE. 

One ounce sugar of lead in a pail of rain water. Soak 
over night. 

TO WASH CALICO. 

Mrs. Edward Ely. 

Blue calicoes or muslins will tain their colour if one 
small teaspoon of sugar of lead is put into a pail of water 
and the articles washed in water. 

BLACK CALICOES. 

Wash black percales or calicoes as usual, rinse in 
was.' witl a strong solution of salt. This will prevent 
black from i inning, and also colours. 

TO VASH WOOLLEN BLANKETS. 

MrB. J. A. Packard. 

Dissolve soap enough to make a good suds in boiling 
water, add a tablespoon of aqua ammonia ; when scald- 
ing hot, turn over your blan' ts. If convenient, i a 



m 



i « 



360 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



pounder, or any wav to work thoroughly through the 
sudB without rubhiiig on a board. Rinse well ni hot 
water. There is usually soap enough from the lirst suds 
to make the second soft ; if not, add a little soap and 
ammonia ; and after being put through the wrniger, let 
two persons, standing opposite, pull them nito shape ; 
dry in the sun. White flannels may be washed m the 
same way without skrinking. 



TO ^yASH WOOLLEN. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

To every pail of water, add one tablespoon of ammo- 
nia and the same of beef gall ; wash out quickly, and 
rinse in warm water, adding a very little beef gall to the 
water. This will remove spots from carpets, malung 
them look fresh. 



TO WASH CARPETS. 

E. A. Forsyth. 

Spread the carpet where you can use a brush ; take 
Irish potatoes and scrape them into a pail or tub of 
water and let them stand over night, using one peck to 
clean a large carpet ; two pails of water is sufficient to 
let them stand in, and you can add more when ready to 
use • add two ounces of beef gall and use with a brush, 
as to scrub a floor ; the particles of potato wiii help 
cleanse ; when dry. brush with a broom or stiff brush. 



VALUAIU^K HRCIPKS. 



5301 



rough the 
^ell ill hot 
lirst suds 
e Foap and 
ringer, let 
ito shape ; 
shed in the 



1 of aramo- 
uickly, and 
3f gall to the 
eta, making 



hrush ; take 
,il or tub of 
; one peck to 
) sufficient to 
hen ready to 
dth a hrush, 
iato will help 
stiff brush. 



H( 



WASJIINr; FLUID. 

Mrs. A. 1'. liij,'loli;irt. 

Nine tabk'sp(»()iis iiiislackrd linic, two pounds of Hal 
)da, four (piarts watt r; let this Hiumier half an h 



then bottle up. 
water. 



!i iiaii an Hour, 
Take a .^uiall teacup to a boiler of 

WASIIlNd I-'LUII). 

MiK. A. W. I). 



One pound sal .sothi, one pound potasji, eaeh dissolved 
in one gallon of water (.separately); then mix together 
and botth'. 

EXCELLENT FAMILY SOAP. 

Mrs. F. Kiiiipp. 

iNtiREniHNTs. — One box of lye, live pounds of grease, 
one pound of resin, one and a half gallons of soft water ; 
make in an iron pot. When the water boils, put in the 
lye ; when this is dissolved add the grease ; stir till all 
is melted ; then add one* pound of resin gradually, and 
boil for an hour and a half; keep stirring with a stick, 
and add hot water to keep up the original cpiantity ; 
pour into wet tins, and let it stand for twenty-four hours ; 
cut into bars and keep in a dry warm place for a month. 

TO MAKE (lOOD STAllCH. 

Mrs. D. 

Mi\ the starch with cold water, add boiling water 

until it thickens, then add dessert spoon of sugar, and 

a small piece of butter. ]\rakes a stiff and glossy tinish 

equal to laundry. 
24 



i: 



m 



I 



302 TlIK IIOMK COOK ItOOK. 

AN EXCELLENT ILUID SOAP. 

Mrs. Kato Jolmson. 

Pour twelve quarts soft boiling water on two and one - 

half pounds of uuHlacked lime ; disHolve five pounds sal 

Boda in twelve (juarts soft hot water ; then mix and let 

them remain from twelve to twenty-four hours. Pour 

off all the clear tluid, bein<.^ careful not to allow any of 

the sediment to run off; boil three and one-half pounds 

clean grease and three or four ounces of rosin in the 

above lye till tlie g -oase disappen-s ; pour into a box 

and let it stand a day to stiffen and then cut in bars. 

It is as well to put the limo in all the water and then 

add the soda. After pouring off the tluid, add two or 

three gal'ons of water and let it stand with the lime 

and soda dregs a day or two. This makos an excellent 

washing Huid to boil or soak the clothes in, with one 

pint in a boiler of water. 

CLEANING SILVER. 

Mrs. O, L. Pftrkor. 

Never put a partich* of soap about your silver if you 
would have it retain its original lustre. When it wants 
polish, take a piece of soft leather and whiting and rub 
hard. ' The proprietor of one of the oldest silver estab- 
lishments in the city of Philadelphia says that house- 
keepev4 ruin their silver in soap suds, as it makes it 
look like pewter. 

POLISH FOU ZINC OR TIN. 

MiH. ThoH. A. Hill. 

To three pints of water, add one ounce of nitric acid, 



wo and one- 

pouncls sal 

iiix and let 

)ur8. rour 

[low any of 

lalf pounds 

osin in the 

into a box 

ut in bars. 

sr and then 

add two or 

ith the lime 

m excellent 

a, with one 



diver if you 
hen it wants 
ing and rub 
silver estab- 
} that house- 
it makes it 



f nitric acid, 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



3G3 



two ounces of ornery, and eight ounces of pumice stone; 
shake well together. Any druggist will liU it for fifteen 
cents. 

STOVE POLISH. 

Mrs. 0. L. Parker. 

Stove lustre, when mixed with turi)ontino and applied 
in the usual manner, is blacker, more glossy, and more 
durable than when mixed with any other liquid. The 
turpentine prevents rust, and when put on an old rusty 
stove will make it look as well as new. 

TO EXTRACT INK. 

To extract ink from cotton, silk, and woollen goods 
saturate the spot with spirits of turpentine and let it 
remam several hours; then rub it between the hands. 
It will crumble away without injuring either the colour 
or texture of the article. 

TO TAKE INK OUT OF LINEN. 

Dip the spotted part in pure tallow, melted ; then wash 
wot the tallow and the ink will disai)pear. 

PATENT SOAP. 

Mrs. Ludlain. 

Five pounds hard soap, one ({uart lye, one-fourth 
ounce pearl-ash ; place on the fire and stir well until the 
BoapisdiHHolved; add one half pint spirits of turpen- 
tmo, one gill spu-its hartshorn, and stir well It h 
then lit for use. The linest muslin may be put to soak 



>S9(«**4«fe«Hi.«ui«fei!tS! 



iiwifillifr' 



364 



THE HOME COOK BOOK. 



Ucl 



ikIi^ 



ill this suds, and if left for a time will become boaiiti- 
fiiUy white. A small portiou of soap put into a little 
hot water, and a flannel cloth will save hard labour and 
a bru^di in cleaning paint. One who has tried it thinks 
it worth the price of the book. 

FOK BLEACHING COTTON CLOTH. 

MrH, C. li. Wlieoler. 
One pound chloride of lime, dissolved and strained ; 
put in two or three pails of water ; thoroughly wet the 
cloth and leave it in over night ; then rinse well in two 
waters. This will also take out mildew, and is ccpially 
good for brown cotton or white that has become yellow 
from any cause, and will not injure the fabric. 

TO KK^IOVE TAR. 

Uub well with clean lard, afterwards wash with soap 
and warm water. Apply this to either hands or clothing. 

JAVELLE WATER FOR MILDEW STAINS. 
One pound of chloride of lime, two of washing soda, 
two gallons of soft water ; pour one gallon of boiling 
water to the ingredients to dissolve them, adding the 
cold water when dissolved. 

COLOURING COTTON CARPET RAGS. 

Mrs. S. I. Parker. 

j3f^uE,— For five pounds of cloth, take five ounces of 
copperas, with two pails of water in a tin or copper 
boiler ; set it over the lire till the copperas is dissolved 
and it begins to heat, then put in the cloth, stirring it 
frequently till it boils, one-half or three-fourths of an 



iJQb' 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



365 



onie boaiiti- 
iiito a little 
I labour and 
led it thinks 

•Til. 

id strained ; 
;lily wet the 
well in two 
d is C(inally 
come yellow 
ic. 



h with soap 
i or clothing. 

STAINS. 

ishing soda, 
n of boiling 
, adding the 

:iAGS. 

vo ounces of 
[n or copper 
is dissolved 
h, stirring it 
ourths of an 



hour ; then remove the cloth where it can drain ; pour 
away the copperas water and take two ounces of prus- 
siate of potash in about two pails of water in the same 
vessel ; when it is well dissolved and hot, put in the 
cloth from the copperas water, stirring it thoroughly 
till it boils, one-half an hour, then remove the cloth : 
add (with care and caution, on account of the spattering 
which ensues) one tablespoon of oil of vitriol, and stir it 
well in the dye ; replace the cloth, stirring it briskly till 
it has boiled one-half an hour. Should be well rinsed 
and washed in clear water to prevent the dye from mak- 
ing it tender after colouring. 

Yellow. — For five pounds of cloth dissolve one-half 
pound of sugar of lead in a tub of warm water and 
twelve ounces of bichromate of potash in another tub of 
cold water ; soak, rinse, and wring the cloth in the lead 
water first, then in the other, and return from one to the 
other, till the right shade of colour is obtained. 

Oranok. — Dip the yellow coloured cloth into strong 
lime water ; if it should not turn, boil it ; rirse all well. 

GiiEEN. — Put your Idue cloth in the yellow dye in the 
same manner as for colouring yellow. Old calico will 
take a darker shade of blue or green in the same dye 
with the white cloth. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

Mrp. (i. Wyllio. 

One pint salt, two pints fresh lime, three gallons water; 
mix well and put in eggs without cracking the shell ; 
they must be kept covered with the brine. 



K«HM 



' ' 



;^ 



fiii^ 



3GC THE HOME COOK BOOK. 

TO PEE SERVE EGGS. 

Mrs. Midgloy. 

Tako a [.atent pailful of spring water, pour it into a 
stone jar, take one pound of lime, ono pint of Liverpool 
Halt; let it stand lor three days, stir it every day, then 
pour it oir, and put in your eggs. 

now TO MAKE UP SHIRT BOSOMS. 

Take two ounces of fine gum arable powder ; jnit it 
in a piteher and pour into it a pint or more of boiling 
water, according to the degree of strength you require, 
and then having covered it let it stand all night; in the 
morning pour it carefully from the dregH into a clean 
iK)ttle, cork and keep it for use. A tablespoimful of 
gum stirred into a pint of starch made in the usual man- 
ner will give to lawn, either whiti^ or printed, a look of 
newness when nothing else can restore^ them after they 
have been washed. 

lllONIN(i. 

To keep starch from sticking to irons rub the irons 
with a little piece of wax or sperm. 





GREASE ERASER. 

ftli'h. Oliphant. 

Benzine, alcohol, ether, e(pial parts ; mix; apply with 
sponge (patting the sj.ot) ; put a piece of blotting paper 
on each side and iron with a hot flat iron. 



ur it into a 
! Liverpool 
^ (lay, then 



MB. 

Icr ; put it 
! of boiling 
>u roquiro, 
1,'lit; in tlio 
iito a clean 
poonfiil of 
usual nian- 
, a look of 
after they 



J the irons 



apply with 
ting paper 



VALUABLE RECIPES. ^(X 

TO KEEP GLASS JAllS FlIOM BREAKING 
when pouring in boiling fruit, wrap a cold wet cloth 
round each jar. 

TO PREVENT RED ANTS. 

Put one pint of tar in an earthen vessel, pour on it 
two (piarts of boiling hot water, and place it m your 
closet. 

CLEANING MARBLE. 

Mrs. (jriiy. 

Dissolve a large lump of Spanish whiting in water 
which has previously dissolved a teaspoon of washnig 
soda, take only sutUcient water to moisten the whitmg, 
and it will become a paste ; with a tlannel cloth rub the 
marble well, leaving it on for a while and repeatmg the 
process two or three times, if necessary. Wash off with 
soap and water, then dry the marble wc-ll and polish 
with a soft duster. 

FURNITURE POLISH. 

No. 1. Shellac varnish, linseed oil, and spirits of 
wine, equal parts. No. 2. Linseed oil, nlcoliol, e<iual 
parts. No. B. Linseed oil live ounces, turpentine two 
ounces, oil of vitriol one-half ounce. 

CLEANING WHITE PAINT. 

Mrs. C. Btlfonl. 
a • -i.,. ,,f ..«,,.i^,.;.j usiiMl in snfticient quantity to 
soften the water and ordinary hard soap, will make the 




m 



308 



THE HOME COOK liOOK. 



paint look white and clean with half the effort of any 
other method I have ever tried. Care should be taken 
not to have too much ammonia, oj- the paint will he 
injured. 



I 



HAED SOAP. 

Mrs. Miiry A. OiUll. 

Six i)ounds of clean grease, six pounds of sal soda, 
three pounds of stone lime ; slake the lime and put it 
into four f,allons of soft water ; add the sal soda, and 
when dissolved let it settle. Pour off the water into an 
iron kettle, and add the grease melted, and boil. If the 
soap does not come after boiling a few minutes, add 
more soft water till it is of the consistency of honey. 
Wet a tub and pour the hot soap into it. When cold, 
cut into pieces and lay it away to dry. Always make 
soap in an iron kettle. 



yi' 'i 



r' 



rt of any 

be taken 

nt will be 



sal soda, 
ticl put it 
ioda, and 
r into an 
1. If the 
itos, add 
if Ijoiicy. 
tien cold, 
,\H make 



THE SICK ROOM. 



Ech; Gruiol.— Boil ej^'gs fro ii ouo to tbree liours until 
bard cnougb to grate; tben boll new milk and tbicken 
witb tbo egg, aud add a little salt. Excellent in case of 
nausea. — Mrs. Bartlktt. 

Gruel for I\fakts.~To make a gruel for infants 
suffering froui marasmus, take; one pint of goat's milk 
and tbe yolks of two eggs l)oiled sulliciently bard to 
reduce to an impalpable powdtT ; add a pint of boiling 
water, a little salt or sugar, and administer by a nursiag 
bottle. — J)r. Small. 

Bref Tea.— To one pound of lean beef add one and 
oue-balf tumblers of cold water ; cut tlic beef in small 
pieces, cover and let it boil slowly for ten miinites, and 
add a little salt after it is boiled. Excellent. 

Berk Jelly for Invalids. -Tbree small onions, tbree 
small or one and one-balf large carrot>, a lew wliole 
cloves and black pepici, o)'e small teaspoon of sugar, 
one slice of bam, two cai*"s feet, one and a balf pounds 
of beef. Put in tbe onions and otber ingredients in 
succession. I'lace tlu; bam on top, tben thb c^^lf's fret, 
and hifstiy tlu' beef; no water; put .;. 'Jie s'do of tbe 
range, and let it stand until reducc^l to j, w ft mass, tben 
add a quart of water and let it boil one h.)ai' ; strain and 
let stand until cold, wben take off tbe fat. Us(> by dis- 
solving a little in bot water.— Mrs. J. A. Ellis. 



^* ■it^.'.^mm:- .mjTstk'H 



370 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 




Panada.— Two thick slices of stale bread half an inch 
in thickness; cut off the crust, toast them a nice brown, 
cut them into squares of two inches in size, lay them in 
a bowl, sprinkle a little salt over them and pour on a 
pint of l)oilin^^ water. 

Feveu and Aoi'e.— Four ounces galangal root in a 
quart of gin, steeped in a warm place ; take often. — Mrs. 
II. A. Sibley. 

For a Caked Breast.— A llKiULANo Remedy.— 
Bake large potatoes, put two or more in a woollen 
stocking ; crush tlu'Ui soft and apply to the breast as 
hot as can be borne ; rtq)eat constantly till rtdieved. — 
Mrs. (;. P.. WvLi.iK. 

To Ci'itK A SriNii OK Biir, oi; Wasp.— "Nrix common 
earth with water to about the consistency of mud. 
Ai)ply at once. — ^[i;s. Stokv. 

An Tndlvn ^tE^n•:l)V i'or a Cakf.d Biikasi' or Swollen 
Glands.— Gather mullein leaves, saturate in hotjvinegar, 
and apply to the skin very hot ; cover with tlaunel and 
keej) rt'ixating till cured. -Mrs. G. B. Wvli.ik. 



fM 



If an inch 

ice brown, 

ly them in 

pour on a 

root in a 
bcu. — Mrs. 

liKMKDY. — ■ 

a woollen 

breast as 

reHi>ve(l. — 



\ common 
y of mud. 

U SWOI.LKN 

i()t]vinegar, 
tbinnel and 

1,1 K. 



MEDICINAL RECEIPTS. 



Grani>motiie[i's Salve for Everythino. — Two pounds 
of rosin and half a tea'T;) of mutton tallow after 
it Ib hard, half as nnicn becHwax, and half an 
ounce of camphor f^um ; ])ut all toj^'ether into an old 
kt'ttle, and let it dissolve and just come to a boil, fltir- 
rinj^' with a stiek ; then take half a [)ail of warm water, 
just the chill off, pour it in and stir carefully initil you 
can get your hands around it. Two persons must each 
take half and pull like eandy until ((uite white and brit- 
tle ; put a little grease on your liands to prevent stick- 
ing, and keep them wet all the time. Wet the table, 
roll out the salve, and cut it with a knife. Keep it in a 
cool place. — Mrs. Gardner. 

Cholera KE>n';i)Y. — Mix in a small l)ottl<' ecpial parts 
of tincture of opium (laudanum), rhubarb, capsicum 
(red popper, double strength), camphor, and spirits of 
nitre, essence of pei)i)ermint double strength. Shake 
well, and cork tight. Pose : From live to thirty drops 
every fifteen minutes. Dose for children, from two to 
ten drops. — Mrs. Garhner. 

Fio Paste for Constipation. — One-half pound of 
good figs chop]ied fine, one-half pint of molasses, two 
ounces powdered senna leaves, one drachm tine powder- 
ed coriander seed, one drachm of line jtowdered card- 
amom seed. Put the molasses on stove and let it come to 



372 



VALUABLE RECIPES. 



* l< #■ 




:< I \ 't 



a boil, then stir w all the rest and i)ring to a boil again. 
A teasi)oonfiil once in a while is a dose. It will keep, 
when covered, lor a year. — Miis. Gaudnkr. 



Ci'RE loii LoiLS. — Tbatait, xxxviii. 



21. — do thoit ami 



For Canker Sore Mouth. — Burn a corn cob and 
apply the ashes two or three times a day. 

Cure for Corns. — The strongest acetic acid, ai)pli(d 
night and morning, will cure hard and soft corns in a 
week. 

PiiNii Wou>[. — Put a pviiny into a tablespoon of vine- 
gar; let it remain until it becomes green, and wash 
the ring worm with this two or thre(^ times a day. 

CuRK FOR CiriLHLAiNs. — Place red hot coals in a ves- 
sel, and throw upon them a handful of corn meal; hold 
the feet in the dense smoke, renewing the coals and 
meal, till the pain is relieved. This has hwn known to 
nuike very marked cures when all other remedies have 
failed. 

Cure for PiirefMATisM and Bilious IIeadaciie. — 
Finest Turkey lirabarb, half an ounce, carbonate 
magnesia, one oniifo ; mix intimately ; ke(p well corked 
in glass bottle. Dose : One tcaspoonful, in milk and 
sugar, the first thing in the morning; repeat till cured. 
Tried with success. — F. A. K. 

TooTHACiii:.— At a meeting of the London Medical 
Society Dr. Blake, a distinguished physician, said that 
he was able to cure the most desperate case of toothache. 



oil ap;ain. 
will koep, 

tJiOK aiiil 

cob and 

, applied 
orns in a 

a of vinc- 
nd wash 
[ay. 

in a vos- 
cal ; hold 
t'oals and 
known to 
lies havo 

lDACIIE. — 

•arbonatc 
j11 corked 
milk and 
ill cured. 

Medical 
Haid that 
3othache, 



I 



■i 



TilE HOME COOK BOOK. 



373 



unless thr liseaKe van nuuected with rluumatisui, by 
tiie ai)plication of the foUowin-^ remedy : Alum reduced 
to an impulpabli- powder, two <lraehnis ; nitre spirit of 
ether, Hcven dm hniH ; mix and apply t' i 'th. 

Tried with HUccess. 

(tueask from Cloth.— Cireaso can be reni(i d from 
cloth by a paste of fuller's earth and turpentine. This 
should be rubbed on the fabric until the turpentine has 
evaporated and a white powder produced. The latter 
can bo brushed off, and the grease will ha\ • di.sappea. .il. 

To Mknd China.— Tiik(! a very thick nolution of gum 
aiabic in water, and stir into it plaster o^ ? 'ri until the 
mixture becomes of a proper consistenc. nply it with 

a brush to the fractured edges of the , and stick 

them together. In three days the art es cannot be 
broken in the same place. The whiteness of the cement 
renders it doubly valuable. 

How TO ( K A Bone Felon.— Of all painful things 
can there be any so excruciatingly painful as a bone 
felon ? We know of none that the Uesh is heir to, and, 
as this malady is quite fre([uent and the subject of much 
earnest consideration, we give the latest recipe for its 
cure, which is given by that high authority, the Lond(m 
Lnucet:—'' As soon as the pulsation which indicates the 
disease is felt, put directly over the spot a fly blister, 
about the size of your thumb nail and let it remain for 
six hours, at the expiration of which time, directly under 
the surface of the bUster, may be seen the felon, which 
can be instantly taken out with the point of a needle or 
a lancet." 



MICROCOPY RESOLUTION TEST CHART 

(ANSI and ISO TEST CHART No. 2) 



1.0 



I.I 



1.25 



m 
m 

m 

1^ 



II 2.8 

illM 

m 

114.0 



1.4 



II 2.5 

1 2.2 

2.0 
1.8 



1.6 



A APPLIED IM^GE 



■b'li Eqsi Mam Street 

-ochester. New York 14609 USA 

nh) ««,- - 0300 - Phone 

■ ' . -- sgag - fax 



•mmm^mm,^ 



„«,.«ri^,«i,;r<^a;wHfew»iS-^ ; 





374 



VALUABLE RECirES. 



How TO GET RID OF 1' LIES. — A clergyman, writing from 
Ireland, says : — " For three years I have lived in town, 
and during that time my sitting room has heen free 
from liies, three or four only walking ahout my break- 
fast tahle, while all my neighbours' rooms were crowded. 
I often congratulated myself on my escape, 1)ut never 
knew the reason of it until two days ago. 1 then had 
occasion to move my goods to another house, while I 
remained on for two days longer. Among otiicr things 
moved were two boxes of geraniums and calceolarias, 
which stood in my window, the latter always being open 
to its full extent top and bottom. The boxes were not 
gone half an hour before my room was as full of flies 
as those around me. This, to me, is a new discovery, 
and perhaps it may serve to encourage others in that 
which is always a source of pleasure, and which now 
proves also to be a source of comfort, viz,, window 
gardening." 

Smallpox BiiJiEDY.— The following remedy a friend 
tried in Ohio in a case of contUiont smallpox, when the 
doctor had little hope of saving the patient, and it saved 
the \voman'8 life. The remedy is sure in scarlet fever. 
" I herewith append a recipe which has been used to 
my own knowledge in a hundred cases. It will prevent 
or cure tlie small pox, even though the pittings are 
lining. When Jenner discovered cow pox in England, 
the world of science hurled an avalanche of fame upon 
his head, and when the most scientific school of medi- 
cine ill the world (that of Liaris), published this panacea 
for the small pox, it passed unheeded. It is unfailing 






THE HOME COOK IJOOK. 



375 



ting from 
in town, 
jeen free 
ay break- 
crowded. 
)ut never 
then had 
?, while I 
or things 
ceolarias, 
eing open 
wore not 
.11 of flies 
:li SCO very, 
•s in that 
hich now 
, window 



a friend 
when the 
ul it saved 
•lot fever, 
a used to 
ill prevent 
ttings are 

England, 
amo npon 
. of medi- 
[« panaeua 

unfailing 



as fate, and concpiers in every instance. It is harmless 
when taken by a well person, it will also cure scarlet 
fever Take sulphate of zinc, one gram ; toK glove 
(./i./i^«/i.s) one grain ; half a teaspoon of water, \\hen 
thoroughly mixed, add four ounces water, lake a 
spoonful Jverv hour, and either disease will disappear 
in twelve hours. For a child, smaller doses, according 
to age." 

For llYDiiopnoBiA.-Franklin Dyer, a highly respec- 
table farmer of Galena, Kent county, Md., gives the fol- 
lowing as a sure cure for the l)ite of a mad dog. He 
has tested it with most gratifying results : Elecampane 
is a plant well known and found in many gardens. Im- 
mediately after being ))itten, take one and a halt ounces 
of the root of the plant, the green root is preferable. 
The dried to be found in drug stores, will answer ; 
bruise it, put it in a pint of fresh milk, boil down to half 
a pint, strain, and when cold drink it, fasting at least 
six hours afterwards. The next mornmg repeat the 
dose, fasting, using two ounces of the root. On the 
third morning, ^ake another dose prepared as the last, 
and this will be sufficient. After each dose, nothing to 
be eaten for at least six hours. I had a son who was 
bitten by a mad dog eighteen years ago, and four other 
children in the neighbourhood were also bitten. They 
took the above, and are now alive and well. I have 
known many who were cured. It is supposed that tlie 
root contains a principle, which, being taken up by the 
blood in its circulation, counteracts or neutralizes the 
deadly effect of the virus of hydrophobia, i feel so 



" J I jKijiiifeiiM 






nyo 



VAIATAULK ItECIl'KS. 



? I 



,ilt 



miu'li conlidoiico in this siinjih' rciiKuly that I am will- 
ing aou should ,u,iv(' lav luTuic in i-onnt'i-tion with this 
statenient. 

Foil Fklon. — Take common rock salt, as used for salt- 
ing down i)ork or heel", dry in an oven, then [-ound it 
line and iui\ with s))irits ol" turpentine in equal parts ; 
put it in a rag and wrap it around the parts alfected ; 
as it gets dry put on more, and in twenty-four hours 
you are cured. The felon will he dead. No harm to 
try it, as 1 have with success. 

CvRK FOR Nkiuvloia. — A friend who suffered horrihlo 
pains from neuralgia, hearing of a noted physician in 
Germany who invariahly cured the disease, went to him, 
and was permanently cured after a short sojourn. The 
doctor gave him the remedy, wlii(di was nothing but a 
poultice and tea made from our connnon iield thistle. 
The leaves are macerated and used as a poultice on the 
parts affected, while a small (ju.antity of the same is 
boiled down to the proportion of a ([uart to a pint, and 
a small wine glass of the decoction drank before each 
meal. Our friend says he has never known it to fail of 
giving relief, wdiile in almost every case it has effected a 
cure. God gave herbs for the healing of the nations. 

TiNCTi'HE OK Ioi>iNK ON CouNS. — Dr. Bajis states that 
corns may be rapidly cured by the applicat'"' (^f tlio 
Tincture of Iodine ; the corn disappearing in course 
of a few days, if touched wuth the Tincture severu' times 
a day. If the corn be situated betwceri the toes, it 
should be covered with a piece of linen steeped in a 
mixture of the Tincture and (Jlyueduc. -Mrs. C. 
Patterson, 



. 



THE HOME COOK HOOK. 



377 



am -will- 
witli this 

I for salt- 
l>oiiii(l it 
[il parts ; 

alfticted ; 
111' hours 

liariii to 

il liorril)lo 
'sician in 
it to him, 
ini. The 
ing but a 
(I thistle. 
ice on the 
same is 
pint, and 
fore each 
to fail of 
clfectcd a 
lations. 

tates that 
i' (^f the 
> course 
era' times 
J toes, it 
i'[)e(l in a 
-Mrs. C. 



Flannkls von Fomkntation.— Fold the Uannel the 
size i,o lit over a pot of hoilin<,' watci, and cover with 
a Ud ; in a few minutes it will l»e hMcr than if wrung 
out of boiling water and yet dry at the corners ; roll it 
up covered, and convey fiuickly to the i)atient. J. Iv. 

GiL.MOUIl. 

For Hoaksrness.— Squeeze the juici^ of half a lemon 

s), one 



i> ' 



aU loaf sugar (two tablosi)oonHj 
full teaspoon of glycerines and on(3 full tablespoon of 
whiskey ; pour over this boiling hot water to nearly iill 
the bowl, and drink hot just before going to bed. 

For Sore Throat.— Cut slices of salt i)ork or fat 
bacon ; sinnner a few moments in hot vinegar, and 
apply to throat as hot as possible. When this is taken 
off, as the throat is relieved, put around a bandage of 
soft lianmd. A gargle of equal parts of borax and alum, 
dissolved in water, is also excellent. To be used fre- 
quently. 

Healing Lotion,— One ounce f^lycerine, one ounce 
rose-Avater, ten drops carbolic acid. This preparation 
prevents and cures chapping of the skin, and at the 
same time bleaches it. It is also excellent for sore lips 
and gums. I consMier it an indispensable adjunct to 
the toilet table.— Mrs. A. YocuM. 



To STOP Bleeding. 
jut. — Mrs. a. M. 



-A handful of lloui- bound on the 



To Prevent Contagion from Eruptive Diseases. — 
Keep constantly, in plates or saucers, sliced raw onions 
in the sick room, if possible. As fast as they become 



11 



25 



%~:^^^mtm'^«f-- 



■^,'SS*sSS«S8fe.*i 



378 



VALUABLE KECIPES. 




discoloniva, replace hy fresli ones. During any epi- 
demic of skin diseases that are eruptive, oni(ms, except 
those taken fresh from the earth, are unsafe, as thi^y 
are peculiarly sensitive to disease. 

To llKSToui'] I'lioAt Stuokh OK Li(iUTNiN(}.— Sliower 
with cold water for two hours ; if thc^ patient does not 
show signs of life, put salt in the water, and continue to 
shower an hour longer. 

Foil TooTii.vcnu.— Of powdered alum and line salt, 
G(pial quantities; apply to the tooth :ind it will give 
speedy relief. -Mus. Bahtlett. 

Fou HEADAciii:.— Pour a few drops of ether on one- 
lialf ounce of gum camphor and pulverize ; add to this 
an e(pial (piantity of carhonate ammonia pulverized ; 
add tw(!nty drops peppermint ; mix and put in an open- 
mouthed hottle and cork.— Miis. A. M. Gibiss. 

Salve vok (Uiilblatns.— Fry out nicely a little mutton 
tallow; into this while melted, and after it is nicely 
strained, put an equal quantity of coal oil ; stir well 
together while it is cooling. 

To Eemove Discolouration puom Bruisks.— Apply a 
cloth wrung out in very hot water, and renew frequently 
until the pain ceases. Or, apply raw heefsteak. 

Cure for Wasp STixa.— Apply a poultice of saleratus 
water and Hour, and bind on the sting. Apply slices of 
raw onion for a bee sting. 

Cure for Sijmmer Complaint.— Two ounces tincture 
rhubarb, one of paregoric, one-half of essence of pepper- 



1 



TlIK HOME COOK J500K. 



379 



; any cpi- 
ons, except 
{■(', as tlui.y 

}. — Shower 

nt (l()(^s not 
coiitiime to 



il line salt, 
t will Jii've 



her on one- 
add to this 
pulverized ; 
in an open- 

i, 

ittle mntton 
it is nicely 
1 ; stir well 

s. — Apply a 
\ frequently 

eak. 

of saleratus 
ply slices of 

ices tiuctui'c 
;e of peppcr- 



! 
4 



mint, one-half of essence of aunis, one-half of prepared 
chalk. Dose for adult, one teaspoon in a little water ; 
take as often as needed.~Mus. L. BiiAbLEY. 

Thk isEST Deodouizku.— Use l)romo-chlorahnn in the 
proportion of t)ne tahlespoon to eight of soft water ; dip 
cloths in this solution and hang in the rooms ; it will 
purify sick rooms of any foul smells. The surface of 
anytiiin- may he purified hy washing,' well and then ruh- 
hinj,' over with a weakened solution of bromo-clilorahim. 
A weak solution is excellent to rinse ihv. mouth with 
often, when from any cause the breath is offensive, it 
is also an excellent wash for sores and wounds that have 
an otfensive oilour. 

To Destroy Bed Buos, Motub, and Other Vermin. 
—Dissolve alum in hot water, making a very strong 
solution ; apply to furniture or crevices in the walls with 
paint brush. This is sure destruction to those noxious 
vermin, and invaluable because easily obtainiMl, is 
perfectly safe to use, and leaves no unpleasant traces 
behind. When you suspect moths have lodfjed in the 
borders of carpets, wet the ed;,'es of the carpets with a 
strong solution ; whenever it reaches them, it is certain 
death. 

How TO Sei.ect Meats.— An English journal gives 
the following hints on this subject :— "Good and whole- 
some meat should be neither of a pale rosy or pink 
colour, nor of a deep puri)le. The lirst denotes the 
diseased condition, the last proves the animal has died 
a natural death. Good meat has more of a marble look, 



380 



VALUABLE KECH'KS. 



It;- : 



in conKeqiionco of the bi-ancliiiig of the veins which Biir- 
round the a(lii)Ose cells. The fat, especially of the inner 
organs, is alway lirin and siiety, and ne\er moist, while 
in <^eneral the fat from diseased cattle is fiahby and 
watery, and niore often resembles jelly or l)oiled parch- 
ment. Wiiolesoiiie meat will always show itself firm 
and elastic to the toueh, and exiiihit no dampness, while 
diseased meat will appear soft and moist, in fact often 
mort! wet, so that the liqnid substances run out of the 
blood wh.'n pressed liard. (IoojI meat has very little 
smell, while unsound meat has a disagreeable, cadaver- 
ous smell, and diffuses a certain medicinal odour. This 
can be distinctly proved l)y cutting the nu-at through 
with a knife and smelling the blade, or pouring warm 
water over it. Lastly, bad meat has the peeuliarity 
that it shrinks considerably in the boiling ; wholesome 
meat rather swells, and does not lose an onnce in weight. 



I! ii 



*! rti 



wliicli sur- 
(^f tlic inner 
noist, while 
rtiiLby and 
»il(;(l parcli- 

itself lirra 
HiL'Ss, while 
1 fact often 

out of the 
1 wry little 
•le, cadaver- 
dour. This 
'at through 
n-ing warm 

peculiarity 

wholesome 
c in weight. 



BILLS OF FARE. 



In tho accompanyiuK' Bills i>f Fiiie, tln^ ;irniii!,'oiiU'iii of tho vurioiis 
coius"s will lie sujj'K'i'stfil liy tho form in \vlii(.-h they iiro {,'ivi'ii : 

M'ENU. 

BREAKFAST— No. 1. 

Imuc lloruiiiy. Buttorcil '^oll^st. 

lit'efstoak. 

French Rolls. Totiitoes a la (Jienie. 

Buckwheat Cakes. 

Tea. ("oiTee. Clu)C()late. 

BREAKFAST -No. 2. 

BroiUMl Spring Chickens. 

Homo Rolls. Irish Potatoes. 

Scramhlea E^'f,'s. Fried Oysters. 

Rye and Indian Loaf. 

Coffee. Tea. Chocolate. 

BREAKFAST—No. 3. 

White Fish. Potatoes. 
MuUius. 

Fried Ham. F'rk Omelette. 
Cotleo. Tea. Chocolate. 



LUNCHES. 

LUNCH PARTY— No. 1. 

Beef Tea, served iu small porcelain cups. 
Cold Chicken and Oyster and other forms of Croquettes. 
Chicken Salad. Minced Ham Sandwiches. 

Escalloped Oysters. 
Tiitti Frutti. Chocolate Cream. 

Cake Basket of :\Iixed Cake. 
Mulled Cliocolato. 
Mixed Pickles. Biscnits, etc. 

Ice Cream and Charlottes can either ho added or suhstitutcd. For 
tweuty guests, allow one gallon. 



:\H'l 



DiLiiS or I'Aur,. 









Swoi't iiml liisli I'oliitoos. 



LUNCH PARTY No. 2, 

(KstiT I'io. lioilid l'iutii(l;^f. Cold liaui. 

Hwwt I'ii'kli's. Saiulwiclios. 

I'.Miiid iiud Friiil Ctikf. ryiiiiiiids of Wine .IfUy. 

liliiui! Maiij-^o. Snow Jelly. 

riuoiipplf Flniumiiy. 

KisHcri. MaciiroouH. Icu Cream. 

DINNERS. 

DINNER No. 1. 

i-'iusr coiMtsi:. 

Oyster Soiii), with Celery. 

sicciiM) coriisi;. 

lloasl 'rurkey. 

( 'ro(|iiettes of Uice. 

iniiii' coi'usK. 
(^uail ou Toast. 
Vi't^etrtblcs. I'iekies. EHcalloind Tonialocs, 

Maearoni. Jelly. 

PES8EUT. 

Almond I'ndilint?. 

Mince Tie. Lemon I'ie. 

Cliecse. Trnits. Nuts. 

ColTee. 

DINNER -No, 2. 

I'M'iSr t'OUKSK. 

Raw OysterH. 
White and lirown Soup. 

si;t'ONii couiiKi:. 

Doileil White Fish, with Sauce and Sliced Lemon. 

iniun coriisK. 

Itoast Beef. 

FOUKTH COUUSE. 

l^oast Turkey. Ducks. 

Vegotttbles in season. < ro.iuette^ of Rice or Hominy. 

Cranberry Sauce. Currant Jelly. 

HESSEUr. 

Cream Custuvd. T;(^mon Pie. 

Fruits. Nuts. 

CotToe. 



THE IIOMC COOK BOOK. 

TEA. 



Tea. 



TEA— No, 1. 

("utTte. Cliocoliitc. 



383 



Hisciiits. 

Oyster SiunhviclicK. Cliickcn Saliul. 

('(lid TuiiKiio. 

Ctikc uiul I'li'scrvcs. 

ice Cniiiii iiiiil Ciiko later in tlir cvciiiiij,'. 

TEA — No. 2. 

'I'm, ColTci', cir ( 'luii'nhitt'. 

Espall"i>((l 111- I'rinl (hstcrs. Miitliiis. 

Siii'('il I'lirki V aiiil Ham. 

Cold llisciiits. 

SiirdiiicH mid Slictcd liciiions. 

Thill slifi's of Brcii.l, n.llcd. Sliced I'n'.sci Mvatn. 

(Jakr ill variety. 



SUPPERS. 

SUPPER— No. 1. 

Cold Roast Turkey. Chicken Salad. 
(Jiiail oil Toast. 
Ham ( 'ro(jiiettcs. Fricasseed Oysters. 

Charlotte Uusse. Vanilla Cream. 

Chocolate Cako. Cocoaiiut ('ake. 

Mixed Cakes. 

Fruit. 

(Joffeo and CHiocolato. 

SUPPER— No. 2. 

Cold Roast Partridges or Ducks. 

Oyster Tatties. Cold Boilcil Ham. Dressed Celery. 

Oysters or Minced Hani Saiulwielies. 

Raw Oysters. Chicken Croquettes or Fricasseed Oysters. 

Wine Jelly. Ice Cream. lUscuit (Uace. Cakes. 

Fruits. Chocolate. CotTee. 

I'ickles and Biscuits. 



384 



THE HOME COOK UOOK. 



.1 



ALLOWANCE OF SUri'LIES FOU AN ENTEllTATNMFNT. 

In inviting guests, it is safe to calcutatc tli;it out of ono hundred 
and fifty, but two-thirds of the nunil)or will ho present. If live 
hundred are invited, not more than tlu'ce hundred can he counted 
upon as accepting. 

Allow one quart of oysters to every three persons present. l"'ivo 
chickens (or, what is hettor, a ten-pound tin-key, boiled and 
minced), and fifteen lieads of celery, are enough for chicken salad 
for fifty guests ; one gallon of ice cream to every twenty guests; 
one hundred and thirty sandwiches for ono hundred guests; and 
six to ten quarts of wine jelly for each hundred. For a company 
of twenty, allow throe chickens for salad ; ono hundred piekhul 
oysters ; two moulds of Charlotte Itusso ; one gallon of cream ; 
and four dozen biscuits. 

COLD LUNCHES FOR WASHING DAYS, OR OTHER DAYS 
OF EXTRA LABOUR. 

Lunch No. 1. — Cold corn beef, nicely sliced; baked potatoes; 
bread, butter, and pickles. Dessert— mince pie nnd cheese. 

Lunch No. 2. — Chicken pie ; baked potatoes ; rolled bread or 
biscuit. Dessert — cake and custard. 

Lunch No. 3. — First course : Raw oysters, with lemon and 
crackers. Second course : Cold veal, with jelly and Saratoga pota- 
toes ; bread r,nd butter. Dessert— cherry pic with cheese. 

Lunch No. 4. — Casserole of fish, with mushroom catsup; broad 
and butter. Dessert — pio with choose. 

ECONOMICAL DINNERS. 

Sunday. — Roast beef, potatoes, and greens. Dessert — pudding 
or pie, cheese. 

Monday. — Hashed beef, potatoes, and bread pudding. 

TuKSDAY. Broiled beef, vegetables, applo pudding. 

Wkdnksday. — Boiled pork, beans, potatoes, greens, and pie or 
rice pudding. 

TnuusuAY. — Roast or broiled fowl, cabbage, potatoes, lemon pie, 
cheese. 

Friday. — Fish, potato croquettes, escalloped tomatoes, pudding. 

Saturday.—.! la mode beef, potatoes, vegetables, suet pudding 
and miuce pie, cheese. 



i 



/ 



ATNMKNT. 

•no Imndroil 

3ut. If livo 

bo counted 

esoiit. Five 
b()il<'(l iuiil 
lickou salad 

LMlly glK'StH; 

gnosis; iii'd 
a company 
Ired pickhul 
I of croain ; 

£IER DAYS 

:'d pntatorH ; 

llCCKO. 

od bread or 

lemon and 
iratoga pota- 
ose. 
itMip; broad 



irt— padding 

nr 

o* 

, and pie or 

3, lemon pie, 

les, pudding, 
net pudding 



Queen^s Hotel, Toronto. 



Mock Turtle. 



SOUP AND FISH. 

Biilinoii Trout, Oyster Sauce. 



BOILED AND ROAST. 

Conie.l IW'of lui.l C.il.l.an.-. l.i'« "f Mutton. Ciiix-r Sauco. 

McCiirli'r'M I'ri/.o Kilm of r.cnf, Horsf Kiulisli. 

HikMI.m.I' Mutton, KiMlCiinant .Jolly. Ktullrd Turkey, (iililot Hiiute. 

Mritton'M I'rizo Hirloin of Ufif. with l'n«iHli I'uIFh. 

ENTREES. 

Sui.rcnif of I'niiiic- H.ai, nu Cluuni.Mii^nnM. I'ill.t of li. . a In Touloufio. 
French rattii.s, h. la Finauciero, Kwect liroa.l ]^rlns^,l■. Iruruiwhrd with 
Cirofu I'ciis. Chicken FrieasKo, a hi Koyale. Filli-t of Vonison, I>Hr.h''l, 
I'ort Win-e Snure. (>ynter Volauveiit. IVlnlerloin of I'ork, Saiic- Kohnt. 

ORNAMENTAL. 

Boned Turkey, Deeore a I'Aspie. Sii^av Cured llaui, a la (hilot. (limie Pie, a 
hiSuri>ri«o. I'.ulTalo Tongue, Deeore tin Venlure. Cliicken Mayonuaisie, n 
la rarisieue. Lohster Salad, ii hi Corsair. 

CAME. 

rartiiilt;efl, liread Saiu'o. 
Saddle of VeniHon, (irai)e Jelly. Wihl Turkey, Crauherry Sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled rotatoes. Mash. d Potatoes. (':ihl.;u;e. Toinatoes. 

Swei't Corn. I'arsniiis Fri. d in I'-nt t.'r. 

PUDDINGS AND PASTRY. 

Bukeil Taiiioea, Wine Same. Cliristman I'liini, lirandy Sauce. Mince I'io. 
lAinon Cream Tie. I'lum Tart. l{Mspl>erry Tart. 

DESSERT. 

Walnuts. Almonds. Filherts. Muscatel Ihiisins. Al)llle^'. 

Ornamented Fruitcake. .lelly Drops. I'ouuil Cake. Silver Cako. 

Siniuish MaccarooiiH. Mushroom Kisses. Chain paKne Jelly. 

Charlotte KusH. Oranpes. Mavarian Cream. 

FIIKNCH COFFFK. 



SUERUY. 



CHAMPAONK. 



ALE. 



i 




s 




ii:ii 



:,--"!S": 



m - .M 






TORONTO, CANADA. 



■?//.-* h V/.« 



The " Qi-kkn's"' is ono uf tlii' laiKcsJ and moi-t ronifortiiblo Hotels in 
the roniiiiion tif Ciiinila ; iuul Ik iiic! adjacout t(i llic Tjukc, (■ouiuiaiulH 
a splendid view of 'J'monto IJiiy iiud l„iK(' Oiitiuio. It is \v<'ll l<n.)\\u as 
one of till' coolcsl lioiiM's in Suiiniicr, in CiMiadii, and is clcfriinriv fnr- 
nislicd tlnon'/liuut ; i.ioiiis iii siiit,\ wiWi liatli-rounis. etc , atl:iclicd, on 

OMTV llooi'. 

In 1S71, a Siiilr oi' Apintnicnls \v;is occiniit'i) liy (fis Tmpn i:il lii'di- 
Uf'ss tlic (iraiid 1>ii1m' Ai. i:\is of liiissia. 

Ilis Ivxecllcncv tiir Ivirl of i>iii-i:i;iN, K.I'., etc., (iovciiior-dcni'ial of 
(Canada, ;ind tin' Coinitcss of Dri'rr.KiN', on the oi','a-,ion of each visit to 
'l"oro!it-o, i'n;<a';('l sipai'f nu'nts al llii' " (}i;i:k.n's." 

'I'lic (Ironnds al "III ii liciiin- Imtli sp;icioiis ;ind iiiiy, with ( 'roipicl and 
Clicvalciii' l.awn^, ii'ndi r il uih' of llic most jilci'-anl and ili'siraiijc 



Hotels for liii^imss np'iV jilensnii' s.^kiTs, and ihi 



' t r iNi'llinu; piihiic. 



Term.'; fof l'.o;nd, per day tr-."ii' to !|f;!.,"ill, accordiii;: t^ li,|-:ilion of 
rooms. 

llatli-rooms, etc., atlaidicd, ftl.Tai p.'c day addilional. 



McGAW & WINNETT, 

rHOl'HiKi'itli.s. 



ToitONTO, Out. 



"*5S 



ssasr- 



rtfew 



^J- *s!il -Siii 



1|) 



table HutoLs in 

ilic, I'diuuiaiuls 

Well kiii>\\ii im 

^ cictranHv fiir- 

•■ , iltt-icllcl, (HI 

riiilH'i iai lli';li- 

nur-dciiciiil of 
r (Mcli visit til 

h ( 'i(»i|iiff and 
■A\\i\ il('--ir;ilili' 
II,'-: |>ii!i;ir. 

: to li'caliiiM of 



TT, 



1 



Piiii-TOIiS. 



E. BUTTERICK & COS PATTERNS. G. A, 
WALTON, Agent, 85 King St. West, Toronto. 

SPLENDID TRIUMPH 

AT lUK 

Aiiiericaii Ceiimiial, 1816 
WHEELER 

AND 

WILSON 

VICTORIOUS, 





t.ie jii.l-osuuMin m.MiMv ''7 '";', \ ■',■.;,,,,;,,,„,, (■,.tisr.,n>nl Iv tlu'V ivo..ni- 



Sliiiidin-d ScwiiiL; IMiuliiiic of tlic winlil. 

ll'iioM Tni; Oi'KiciAii Ui:roHr.| 

AWARDS TO WHEELER & WILSON : 

n tllo nn. l".;^manshi,. .,f its parts. ,roat or ..m; ) V. ^'|-;,*;;'".i;*'i ^ ^f 
to ditlVront Uin.lM of ^v„rk, l>otli m cloth ''"'\ ''I'^Vu i,, v ' 
ease, .uia raiMdity nf motion, an.l i'"''U'.','**'','"T«.'« ,' '? s -wiiiL. Macliine " 
2. A Mo.lal and J)i,>lon.a for " Tl,o New W l»'"ler & ^'^ ' r' ,^,V:'^'"^/^^^^^^^^^ 

for leatlier, for the followiiifi reason: " bupeuoi -lU.ilitj of work in 

leather stiteliiiii,'-" . . ^ , 

J. U. Hanvm-.y, rresidcnt. A. T. r.omionN, lUmtoy Occml. 

TORONTO OFFICE 85 KING ST. WEST 

C. A. WALTON, Manager. 



«/«^---^ 



( 



r 



V Jii! 



FURNITURE. 



fl© Q'sliawa Oabinel Cq-'j,, 

NO. 97 YONGE STREET, 

KVA'IV CONSTANTLY ON HAND AN IMMENSE STOCK OF 

Parlor Suites, Bedroom Suites, Whatnots, 
Centre Tables, Sideboards, Cribs, 

Hat Racks, Children's Chairs, Pillows, 

Cradles, Mattresses, &c., &c. 



SI'ECIAL ATTENTION (IIVEN TO 

f;ir//r.'/ ^itinn ^JniirrJ, (Oltomiuir;, ^iml 
§cmicrfi, Sender ^taoU, und 

ORDERED WORK OF ALL KINDS. 



'i'lit' Wiiii'ioiiuis iuc I'xU'iisivc ami tlic Slock always well assorted- 



NEW DESIGNS, GOOD WORK, LOW PRICES, 



Al' TlIK 



OSHAWA FURNITURE STORE, 

97 YONGE STREET. 



:^m' T* 



I* 




J 



?l 



:et, 

STOCK OF 

tnots, 
lbs, 
Pillows, 
&c., &c. 



f ami 

KINDS. 

) well iissorlc'd' 

PRICES, 

STORE, 






i 




nw 



■n 




,'J I'J'L 



Bii 






Triumph at the Centennial, 1875. 





THE UNITED STATES CHNTKNNIAL COMMISSION HAS 

AWAUDKD THE 

DECKER BROTHERS' 

Grand, Square, d Upright 

upon tlic iiiiiiiiiiiKuis rreoiiiiuciulation of tho Jiidj^'cs of (Iroiiit No. 

XXV., tlie FIliST MEDAL and IIKiUHST AWARD, for 

till essential (iiiulitios iu riano-Fortes, .such na-- 

" Power and Evenness of Tone," 

"Precision and Elasticity of Touch," 

" Great Excellence of Workmanship," 

"Intelligence in Construction." 

Thus, liy the force of their own K^niuH, tiie Docker Brothers liavo in 
h'ss tlian fifteen years placed thi'niselves at the head of the few great 
Piano-Forte makers of the world. 



Mason, Biscli & Ue'wcom'be 

SOLE A(JENTS FOll CANADA, 



ij '■ 



HAEEY FIFEE, 



(LaTK ok II. I'llKK & Co.) 



75 <fc 77 Yonge St., first door from King, 



MANUFACTURER & IMPORTER OF 



CHILDREN'S 

CARRIAGES, 

Refrigerators, Filters & Coolers, 



Toilet Sets, Baths, Woodeiiware, Rodgers' Cutlery, 

Cornices, Hardware, Coal Oil, Stoves, Clothes 

Wringers, Lamps and General House 

Furnishing Goods. 

AGENT FOR NATIONAL WIRE MATTRESS. 

Bird Cages and Birds always on hand. Canaries 

^t $350 in full song always on hand. 

Parrots from $8 up. 

SOLE AGENT FOR BERNARD'S SAFETY OIL. 



.- 



Reineinlx^r the house. First Poor 
tVoiii Kin^-, East Side. 



' 



u 



^, 



orn King, 



lGES, 

'Coolers, 



^ers' Cutlery, 
5, Clothes 
[oiise 



TTRESS. 

d. Canaries 
hand. 



Y OIL. 



•st Poor 

le. 



