Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



lO 




fearvart) CoUege Xtbrar^ 



1%^ Lfr^JT^rltfi^^Q^ 




I 



SIX 



LITTLE COOKS: 



OB 



AUNT JANE'S 



COOKING CLASS. 



CHICAGO : 
JANSEN, McCLURG & CO. 

1877. 



Jo^ If 7 7. ■'« 




SIX LITTLE COOKS; 

OB, 

AUNT JANE'S COOKING CLASS. 



riKST DAT. 

"Oh, Annt Jane," said Grace, looking up quickly 
from the story-book she was reading, " I wish you would 
teach us all how to cook! " 

But here am I, the author, plunging at once into the 
middle of my story without a word of explanation, not 
even a preface. Of course, no one can understand any- 
thing about it unless I go back a little, and tell you how 
it began. 

Aunt Jane had come to make a visit to Mrs. Yernon, 
Grace's motlier, and had brought her own little girl. Amy, 
to spend the vacation. Next door lived Edith Lane, a 
very intimate friend of both the girls, and just across the 
street, Rose and Jessie Carroll, Grace's cousins; and these 



6 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

five, witli little Mabel Vernon, made a happy company 
who were almost always together. Mabel was just nine 
years old, and the others were from ten to twelve, so tliere 
was not difference enough in their ages to prevent their 
b^ing the best of playmates. 

Well — as I began to say, Grace was reading about a 
wonderful little girl who made such remarkable things in 
the way of cakes and puddings, that our . young person 
was seized with a desire to do likewise without delay. 
Aunt Jane was the kindest of aunts and the best of cooks, 
and Grace knew that if she would take the trouble to 
teach them, they would be well taught. 

" I should like that of all things," said she, in answer to 
Grace's exclamation, "provided your mother consents." 

"Oh, she'd be perfectly delighted," cried Grace; "she 
often says she wishes she had time to teach us herself." 

"Very well, then; run and ask her if we may begin 
this afternoon." 

"And cn't Rose and Jessie and Edith come too?" 
inquired Grace eagerly. " They all want to learn, just as 

much as I do." 

" Not quite so fast," said Aunt Jane, smiling. " Sup- 
pose we begin with those in the house first, and if it works 
well we can invite the others afterwai'ds." 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 7 

So Grace ran off to get her mother's answer, tripping 
over a footstool as she went, banging her head against 
the edge of the door in her haste to get round it, and 
catching her sleeve in a corner of the banisters. She 
alwaiys began everything with the same wild enthusiasm, 
but was somewhat apt to grow weary of the new em- 
ployment before she had thoroughly tried it. 

" Yes, of course," she called out, while she was still on 
her way down stairs, " mamma says you couldn't do her 
a greater favor. May we begin now?" 

" I think we will wait until after dinner," said her 
aunt. "Then we shall not be inteiTupted, nor be in 
Ehoda's way.". ii^ 

As it was summer, the family dined in the middle of 
the day, and as soon as propriety would allow, the im- 
patient children announced that they were ready. 

'' But I think I see the need of some preparations first," 
said Aunt Jane. 

" Washing our hands ? Oh, Aunty, we all washed them 
just the last thing^ before dinner!" 

"And you ate your breakfast yesterday, but that didn't 
prevent your wanting it again this morning ! The very 
last thing a neat cook does before she goes to work is to 



c 



8 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

wasli her hands and clean her nails carefully; and, not to 
disturb Khoda more than is necessary, you may do it in 
your own rooms. But I see something else that is wanted 
— or rather, I donH see it, because it isn't here!" 

'' Oh, I know," said Mabel. "Aprons!" 

" But we haven't any," said Grace. " I never wear 
aprons with my calico dresses." 
O " But an apron is almost as necessary for cooking — for 

neat cooking, I mean, — as a pair of hands. I have one 
in my trunk that will do for -Amy, and you can borrow a 
couple more from your mother. To-morrow I'll get some 
gingham and make you each one; that is, if you should 
ever carq to try it again." 

" Oh, Aunty!" and " Oh, mamma!" broke in chorus 
from three pairs of rosy lips. 

" Well — we shall see. And now there is one thing 
more I should like to have you do. Bring a little blank 
book, in which you can write down the recipes we try, 
and if any of them should prove not to be good, we'll 
cross them off without mercy." 

The book was quickly brought, and Grace wrote down 
from her aunt's dictation, as follows: 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 9 

No. 1. — Scjsan's Cake. 

Three cups flour, two of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, two of cream tartar. Two cups seeded raisins, or 
one of well- washed currants, added, makes a delicious 
fruit cake. 

No. 2. — ^Baked Custard. 

One quart milk, six eggs — omitting two whites — (five 
will do when they are scarce, and omit one white) — six 
tablespoonfiils granulated sugar, flavoring to taste. Bake 
in small cups. 

No. 3. — ^POPOVEBS. 

One cup flour, one of milk, one egg, a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt. Bake in gem pans. 

" What a funny name, Aimty — ^popovers I " exclaimed 
Mabel, when Grace had finished writing. 

"Perhaps you call them muffins here," replied her 
aunt, " but I like the old-fashioned name. At all events, 
I know they are very good." 

"Why do you call it Susan's cake. Aunt Jane? " asked 
Grace. 

" Because our old German cook, Susan, showed me how 



10 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

to make it," said Mrs. King (by the way, Mrs. King was 
Aunt Jane's company name,) " and I never happened to 
meet with it anywhere else." 

"What next, Aunty?" 

" That will be enough for to-day. We will try all those, 
and if they do well you shall have some more next time. 
Now let us go down to the kitchen." 

Ehoda, the black cook, looked with some suspicion on 
the small army invading her precincts, but she knew by 
experience that the children were well-behaved and re- 
spectful, never giving unnecessary trouble or returning 
saucy answers if checked; so she made up her mind to 
bear the infliction with a good grace. 

"You shall make the cake, Grace, and Amy the cus- 
tard," said Aunt Jane. " Mabel may help you with tliese, 
now, and she and I will come again, just before tea, and 
attend to the popovers. Now begin by collecting what is 
named in your recipes." 

Every thing was soon neatly arranged on the large 
kitchen table, and Aunt Jane began her instructions. 
She told the girls to break the eggs with yolks and whites 
separate for the cake; together for the custard, and showed 
them how to do it neatly without mingKng the two. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 11 

Tliose for the cake were to be beaten first, so as to use the 
same dishes for both, and not soil a second set. Each egg 
was to be broken by itself into a cup first, before going to 
join its companions in the dish, as a single one carelessly 
thrown in when not perfectly fresh, might spoil the entire 
mixture. This is a rule it is never safe for the most skill- 
ful cook to neglect. 

" But what shall we do with the two extra whites that 
are left from the custard, Aunty? " asked Mabel. 

" Khoda will save them to clear the coffee with," re- 
plied Mrs. King. '^ But if there were more we could 
easily use them in our cooking, for many nice things are 
made with the whites alone." 

When the eggs were beaten, one part to a yellow cream 
and the other to a stiff white froth, the sugar and butter 
were rubbed together, little by little, with a strong spoon. 
Then the yolk of egg was added and stirred imtil the 
whole was perfectly smooth. The cream tartar was 
thrown into the flour, ready to be passed through the 
sieve, and then Aunt Jane told Grace to take a quarter 
cup of warm water (not boiling) to dissolve her soda in. 

" Some people throw the soda directly into the sour 
milk," said she, " but it is a poor way, and accounts for 



12 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

the unpleasant little lumps of alkali we sometimes find 
in cake and biscuit. Mabel, while Gracie is putting her 
cake together, you may butter and warm the cake-tins, 
otherwise she would have to wait and do that first, for 
the cake musn't stand a minute longer than is necessary 
after the soda is once in." 

Then the whites of eggs were stirred in, all but the 
liquid remainder which had settled, and which was well 
beaten before being added, and the water containing the 
soda was carefully poured off into the sour milk, leaving 
the sediment in the bottom of the cup. The milk bubbled 
and foamed, as much as to protest against such doings, 
and would soon have overrun its bounds altogether, but 
that just at the critical moment it was tumbled into 
the rest of the mixture, a beautifal cataract of white 
foam. 

"It's for your own good, you know," said Grace, ad- 
dressing it. " It's to make you sweet." 

All else being ready, the flour was now sifted in, Grace 
stirring vigorously all the while. "When the whole was 
amoothly mixed, the little tins were filled rather less than 
half ftill, and all set into the large dripping-pan to bake. 

" Anything so delicate as this might be injured by not 



AUNT jane's COOXING CLASS. 13 

being taken ont the moment it was done," said Aunt 
Jane, " so the best way is to do it all at once; besides 
which, it saves trouble." 

In the meantime, Amy had prepared her custard, ex- 
cept the flavoring. " What kind shall I put in, mamma?" 
said she. 

" Suppose we try some bitter almond to-day," answered 
her mother. " Nothing can be more delicious to those 
who like it, and I see your Aunt Nelly does, or she 
wouldn't have this great bottle of it in the pantry. One 
teaspoonful will do if it is as strong as it ought to be, and 
if we find it not enough, we can add more next time. 
It is always better to put too little of any flavoring or 
spice than too much." 

Another dripping-pan was brought and half filled with 
boiling water, which was ready in the teakettle, that the 
China cups might not be burnt. These were then filled 
to within a quarter of an inch of the top, set into the pan 
of hot water, and the whole placed in the oven. 

" Tour recipe doesn't say how long we must bake these 
things," said Grace. 

" There is very little use in giving any exact direction 
about that," answered her aunt. " Stoves vary so much 



/ 



14 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

that half an hour in one means the same as three quar- 
ters in another. I think this one will bake the cake in 
half an hour, and the custard in somewhat less, but we 
must watch them. There is no absolute rule but experi- 
ence." 

Aunt Jane was right, and everything was done to a 
turn, just as she predicted. When the cakes were taken 
out they were placed on the sieve for a short time to cool. 
A Kttle nutmeg — ^very little — was grated over the top of 
each custard, and all were set away in the dark pantry, 
out of the reach of flies and dust. About three-quarters 
of an hour before tea-time, Mrs. King showed Mabel, as 
she had promised, how to make the popovors. 

*' I think we shall have to double this recipe," said she, 
" for it makes only twelve, and as we are eight at our 
table, with the boys, and shall want to leave some for 
Ehoda and the rest, we'll take two eggs, and so on." 

■ 

Then Aunt Jane told Mabel that the great point was 
to have her mixture perfectly smooth and without lumps, 
which would be done only by adding the milk very slowly 
to the flour, stirring constantly. The eggs, beaten to- 
getlier without separating yolks and whites, went in last 
of all. Then half of the little straight-sided tins, buttered 



«^ 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 15 

first, of course, and warmed, were filled less than half full, 
and pop they went into the oven. " They ought to bake 
in fifteen minutes," said Aunt Jane. 

. And so they did. You ought to have seen those muf- 
fins, or popovers, or whatever else you like to call them, 
when they came out of that oven. How they had risen 
and over-topped their boundaries,* and how they bulged 
out over the sides, and fiowed about in waves of brown 
crust! Mabel fairly danced with delight, clapping her 
hands and throwing her arms round Aunt Jane's neck in 
an ecstasy of gratitude. In the meantime, Rhoda quietly 
filled the rest of the tins and set them in the oven to be 
ready when the second installment was called for. The 
three cooks marched into the supper-room in triumph, 
and when the excellent appetites of the family showed 
their full appreciation of what was set before them, you 
have seldom seen a prouder set of girls than ours were 
after their first day's efforts at cooking. 



1 



f 



/ 

t — - 



16 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



SECOND DAT. 

What do you think was the first question Mi's. King 
heard the next morning, almost before she had opened 
her eyes? It was, " Oh, Aunt Jane, are we going to 
cook again to-day?" 

" Cook?" said Aunt Jane, sleepily, " cook what? Oh, 
yes, I remember. I can tell you better after I have had 
a cup of cofiee. I never know anything before break- 
fast." 

She relented so far, however, as to tell Grace at the table, 
in order to set her mind at ease, that she thought it would 
be best to postpone the next lesson until another day, 
and devote her energies to the making of aprons. 

"One apiece will be enough," said she, "for you 
couldn't very well be in the kitchen on washing and iron- 
ing days; so when the apron is soiled it can be made 
clean in the early part of the week, and you can use it 
again in the latter part. You may go in and ask Aunt 
Carroll and Mrs. Lane if they would like to have their 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 17 

little girls join the cooking-club, and then we shall know 
how many aprons will be needed." 

There was not much doubt about the answer, but to 
make matters sure, all those invited came instantly rush- 
ing in, out of breath, to say that their mammas were 
very much obliged and when should they come and what 
should they bring with them and what kind of cloth 
would be needed for the aprons and how much? As all 
this was without a pause, of course the truthful historian 
is not allowed to introduce any punctuation. 

" Oh, I'll attend to all that," said Aunt Jane, as soon 
as she could get in a word. " The aprons shall be my 
present to the club. I'll go down town now and get the 
materials, and if you like, we'll have a sewing-bee after- 
wards, and you can help make them up. Many hands 
make light work, you know." 

Agreed to on all sides. 

Three pretty ginghams were chosen, two of each color, 
so that they could easily be distinguished; Mrs. King 
cut them out and ran them up on the sewing-machine, 
and the children finished them off under her direction. 
Good, serviceable aprons they were, high in the neck and 
coming down to the very bottom of the dress — loose and 
2 



18 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

easy, yet not clumsy. They had sleeves gathered into a 
wristband and buttoned at the wrist, so that in summer 
they could be worn without a dress, if desirable, while in 
winter they would cover a close sleeve. When the little 
circle were waiting for their work, Aunt Jane said: 

" While I am cutting out I'll tell you something, if 
you like, about what happened to me in one of my experi- 
ments in cooking when I was about Grace's age." 

Chorus of voices, " Oh, do, do!" 

" We lived in the country then, and my mother had a 
large family of young children, and was so burdened with 
cares that life was very hard for her. Half the time we 
could not get any servant, and it was only as a great favor 
that a woman would come now and then to help with the 
washing. As I was the oldest daughter, I was brought 
up to think it my business to do what I could to help 
along, and I eing strong and quite intelligent for my age, 
I really was of great use. One summer we had an un- 
usually fine crop of tomatoes in the 'garden, (tomatoes 
were not as common then as they are now, and were con- 
sidered a great treat,) and my overworked mother was 
lamenting that she could not make up a quantity of cat- 
sup, which my father was very fond of. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 19 

" 'Let me do it, mamma,' I cried; ' I know I could if 
you would just show me how.' 

"As there was nothing complicated about the recipe, my 
mother consented, and I had a whole day set apart for the 
business. First, I was obliged to go and gather the to- 
matoes, as no one else had time for it; and I was so deter- 
mined to do myself credit that I brought in one basketful 
after another until I had a wash-tub full. After that, 
they had to be looked over and cut up, and a variety of 
things put with them, — I don't remember exactly what, 
but it was a very troublesome recipe. The end was that 
I had a large wash-boiler tilled with the rich red mass, 
and it was set on the stove to boil. If I were doing the 
same thing now, I should divide the quantity into at least 
four parts and heat them in separate vessels; but I did 
not know what poor economy of time and trouble it is to 
cook too much of anything at once." 

" You hadn't any Aunt Jane to teach you," observed 
Jessie. 

" 1^0 ; and my mother, who had the best practical good 
jB^nse of any woman I ever saw, was in another part of 
the house taking care of a sick babv, and had to leave me 
to my own devices. As my catsup would of course take 



20 BIXLITTLECOOKS. 

a long time even to ' come to a boil/ as it is called, there 
was no nse in my standing in the hot kitchen watching it 
all the time, so I left a good fire under it and took my 
book out into the wood-shed, where it was cooler. I am 
sorry to be obliged to confess that at that time I was a 
regular bookworm, which I hare since discovered to mean 
a person who selfislily pursues her own pleasure in read- 
ing, generally to the neglect of plain duties which are 
staring her in the face, if she would only raise her eyes to 
see them." 

" Oh, I know whom you mean^ Aunt Jane," interrupted 
Grace, "just as well as if you said the name, though you 
a/re looking the other way so carefully!" 

" I made no personal remarks, Gracie; one bookworm 
is very much Kke another, as far as my observation goes. 
But, as I was saying, I took my book, which happened to 
be a delightful new story, (and story-books were very 
scarce with me in those days), and was soon absorbed in 
it. I don't know how long I read, but at last I thought 
of my tomatoes, and with the thought, or perhaps sug- 
gesting it, came a most powerful odor from the kitchen, 
which I knew betokened no good. Then I ran in fast 
enough, and there was my great boiler full of toma- 
toes — " 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 21 

^ Burnt, Aunt Jane?^ said Eose. 

^' The lower layer burned almost to a crisp, and the 
whole mass so penetrated through and through with the 
oflfensive taste, that tliere was nothing to be done but lift 
off the boiler and turn the whole contents into the swill- 
pail! You may imagine the misery and mortification of 
that moment. My mother arrived on tlie scene at the 
same time, and I expected the reproaches I deserved; but 
she, remembering my patient toil through the early part 
of the day, and my good intentions, kindly tried to laugh 
it off, knowing that the consciousness of my failure would 
he punishment enough- * I have heard of " cooking by 
the book," ' said she, ^ but I never saw it done exactly in 
that way before.' 

" We had no tomato catsup that year." 

"Oh, Aunt Jane, that was too bad!" exclaimed the 
chorus. " Do you think we shall ever do anything like 
thatr 

"Nothing quite. so bad, I hope, but I wouldn't advise 
you ever to take a very interesting book into the kitchen 
with you. Time flies so fast when we are reading, that 
it isn't safe to trust ourselves." 

" What am I going to make first, Mrs. King? " inquired 
Edith. "And I, and I?" chimed in several other voices. 



22 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

" I will give you some recipes to write down in your 
book," said Aunt Jane, " and then we can choose from 
among them. And as I don't think seven of us at once 
would be very welcome in the kitchen, I propose that we 
should divide the club into two parts, only half of them 
to work at one time." 

Chorus of groans, " Oh, that won't be half so nice!" 
" I think it will be nicer," said Mrs. King. ^' If there 
are so many of us we shall only get in each other's way, 
and then think of the quantity of dishes we should 
use !" 

So it was settled that Eose, Edith and Grace should be 
the performers for the next afternoon, and in order that 
all might be quit^ ready, Mrs. King gave them the foL 
lowing recipes, which they copied into their boqks: 

No. 4 — K, K.'s Wine Jellt. 

Dissolve one ounce of Cox's sparkling gelatine in a 
pint of cold water; then pour, over it a quart of boiling 
water; add the grated rind of one lemon and the juice 
of three, half a pint of Sherry wine, a pinch of ground 
cinnamon, and sugar to taste. One-and-a-half pounds 
(or pints) of sugar will be enough for most palates. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 23 

No. 6 — Chocolate Cake. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three and a half of flour, 
one scant cup sweet milk, five eggs, omitting two whites, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half do. soda, one do. 
extract vanilla. 

Meringue for the same. Beat the whites of the two 

eggs very light with one and a half cups powdered 

sugar; six tablespoonfuls grated chocolate, two teaspoon- 

fuls vanilla. Put the meringue on while the cake is hot, 

and leave it in the pan to cool. 

"I don't see ho|^ any one can judge of what a 'cup- 

full ' is, Aunt Jane," said Eose, " cups are of such differ- 
ent sizes. Papa's coffee-cup is a perfect monster, and ' 
mamma's tea-cup is a mite, small enough 'for a fairy." 

" Kitchen cups are not apt to vary much in siz^" re- 
plied Aunt Jane, " and those are what are taken as a 
measure. If there is a great difference, we should choose 
one of a medium size. Then, you must remember, that 
when there are several things measured in cups, they will 
be proportioned to one another; so if you find after one 
experiment that your cake has not enough eggs in pro- 
portion to the other ingredients, you will know that your 
cups are too large; if the egg is too predominating, it 



I 






24 • SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

will be because the cups are too small; so you will-^feoon ^ 
learn the happy medium." / 

" Besides," said Edith, " I suppose every little girl will 
have some grown person to show, her about these things , 
the first time, and then, after that ^he can remember. 
Won't you give us some more receipts, Mrs. King?" 

" Here they are," said Aunt Jane. " The next is " 

No. 6 — Sponge Cattr. .^- 

Ten eggs, three cups flour, three of sugar, juice and 
rind of one lemon^ half a tea-cupfuL^Jold water. Beat 
the <§gs separately, then add sugar and lemon to the 
^yolks, then the whites, and lastly, sift in the flour. A tea- 
4)<>onful of baking-powder, dissolved in half a cup of 
cold water, is thought by many to be an improvement. 

No. 7 — Boiled Custaed. ^^ 

One quart milk, sii eggs, two teaspoonfuls vanilla 
extract; sweeten to taste. * 

" That's another thing I am sure would drive me dis- 
tracted," said Grace. " How can you know .that sugar 
ajpnough for your taste would be enough for anybody 
else's?" • 



J?: J 



%* 



* > 



AUNT jane's cocking CLj^SS* . 25 

"Only by practice, my dear," answered jier aunt. ' 
" The amount of feugar some people require in custards 
and sauces is really sickish to otlf?rs, ajjd each cook must 
consult the \?ishes of her own family. But now Jet us 
go on to '* 

• No. 8 — Mock Sponge Cake* *" 

Six eggs, beaten one minute, whites and yolks to- v i 
gether, three cups sugar, beaten with the eggs for five 
minutes, one cup cold water, three teaspoonfuis baking ^ 
powder, rind and juice of one lemon, nearly tliree cups 
flour. , 



<» 



No. 9 — ^Tipsy-Cake. 



Take either Mnd of sponge-cake, cut it into oblong 
pieces, stick it full of blanched almonds cut into slices, 
poiir over it as much wine as it will absorb, lay it in a 
glass bowl (if you have one), and pour over it the boiled 
custard for which the receipt is given above. 

No. 10 — ScPFT Custard. 

One quart milk, one tablespoonful corn-starch, two 
t< spoonfuls vanilU, five onnces sugar, three eggs, fcj^inch 
salt. ^ ' ^^ 

" There's an exact amount of sugar," observed 5aith. 



f 



r ■ 



26 " SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

" That is taken from Mrs. Miller's receipt-book," said 
Aunt Jane, " and she is always exact about everything. 
But I think these will' do for to-day, and you may come 
in to-jnorrow, as sooi> as Khoda's dinner dishes are out 
of the way." 

At the appointed time our three little women, with 
<-■ \ Aunt Jane at their head, proceeded to the kitchen, in the 
* newest of aprons, the cleanest of hands and the gayest of 

. spirits. 

" I think it would be a good plan to make something 
to-day in the way of a dessert," said Mrs. King; " that 
>fvill be nice to have cold for dinner to-morrow." 

" Oh, do let us make tipsy-cake," said Grace. " I lave 
tipsy-cake! Don't you. Aunt Jane? " 

" I generally save my love for my friends,'^ replied her 
aunt, laughing, " but I like tipsy-cake very much. You 
may make the custard, Grace, and 1R<^J the cake; and as 
your mamma said she wanted some jelly to send to some 
poor sick women, Edith shall try her hand at that." 

''Which kind of sponge-cake shall I make?" asked 
Eose, " the mock or the other? " 

" Either is very good, but I think to-day we will make 
the simpler kind, as it is only to put in custard. That is 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 27 

a very good way, too, to use sponge or any other kind of 
light cake that has grown a little dry. Take one of those 
yellow dishes to stir the cake in; it is never as well to use 
tin for any such purpose. Edith, I had your gelatine 
put to soak before dinner, or it would not have been ready 
now. That is something one must always think of be- 
forehand. Don't break the whites and yolks separately 
for the custard, Grace; and set the tea-kettle into the 
stove, so that the water will be boiling when you need it. 
That is one thing which should always be ready for use 
in the kitchen. One must have plenty of liot water." 

" What do I want hot water for. Aunt Jane? " 

" Oh, didn't I tell you? Any thing in which milk and 
flour or milk and eggs are to be boiled together, has to be 
very carefully treated to prevent its getting lumpy. We 
always set the vessel in which custard is to be made, into 
another containing boiling water; or, what is still better, 
have one that will fit into the top of the other, and so 
heat it by the steam." 

" How long shall I beat the eggs? " asked Grace. 

'^ I think you have whipped them long enough — 
they don't require much beating for custard. Let me see . 
how they look. If there is the least suspicion of an 



28 BIX LITTLE COOKS. 

*eye' in tliem they must be strained; but these seem all 
right. Now stir in the sugar and vanilla, and then pour 
slowly into the warm milk, and keep stirring until it is 
as thick as good rich cream. How I wish my garden 
were near enough for me to step in and get you a hand- 
ful of fresh peach leaves! " 

"What would you do with them, Aunt Jane?" said 
Hose. 

" I would boil them in the milk first, or rather, not let 
it actually come to a boil, but just heat them together to 
bring out the taste of the peach leaves, and then let it 
cool before stirring in the eggs. I think there is no 
flavor more delicious." 

Then Mrs. King showed Edith how to make her jelly, 
first rolling the lemons on the table, so as to break up the 
hard inner walls and squeeze out the juice more easily. 
"You may leave out the cinnamon," she said; "as the 
jelly is for sick people, they might not relish the taste. 

When it is ready, you must dip the flannel bag you are 

« 

going to strain it through into hot water and wring it out 

as dry as possible, so that the jelly may run through 

easily." 

" Shan't I squeeze the jelly-bag a little? " asked Edith, 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 29 

when the operation was about half over " It seemsto run 
through so slowly." 

" Not unless you want the jelly to be thick and muddy- 
lookinor. You mustn't even shake it. Leave it in a 
warm place, and all will run through that ought to. In 
the meantime, if you want something to do, you may 
blanch the almonds for the tipsy-cake." 

Mrs. King then showed her how to do this, by putting 
the shelled nuts into boiling water until the wrinkled 
brown skin would rub oif easily, after which it was easy 
to cut them into thin slips ready to garnish the cake. 

The jelly ran through at last, though Edith firmly be- 
lieved it never would, and was beautifully clear. Then 
it was poured into several small moulds and set away in 
the ice-box, as the weather was warm. In winter, the 
pantry would have done very well. . The sponge-cake 
looked light and spongy, and the custard was as smooth 
as fresh cream, but Aunt Jane said it would be better to 
leave theipi separate until just before dinner, and then dip 
the cake in wine and pour the custard over it, as other- 
*wise it might become too soft and lose its shape. Need 
1 say that the dessert was excellent, and that the sick peo- 
ple enjoyed their jelly? 



30 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



THIED DAT. 

" To-day it is the little ones' turn," said Aunt Jane the 
next morning. " What nice things can we contrive for 
them to do?" 

" Something easy, please," said Mabel, who was a timid 
little thing, and hadn't much confidence in herself. 

" Something nice," said Jessie, who was a year older 
and twice as ambitious. " Just as good as what the big 
girls make." (The big girls, by the way, were of the 
venerable ages of eleven and twelve.) 

" Something that my mamma chooses," said Amy, 
" and then it will be sure to be good." 

" I shall try to please you all," said Aunt Jane, patting 
her little daughter's soft cheek. " Amy can make some 
Daisy cake for tea, Jessie shall try her hand at a cherry- 
pudding for dinner, and Mabel may undertake the sauce. 
Now you may write down the recipes." 

No. 11 — Cherry Pudding. 
Two cups milk, one tablespoon butter, two eggs, two 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 31 

teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one of soda, three light pints 
flour, or enough to make a stiff batter, one quart cherries, 
measured after stemming. Boil or steam two hours. 

^ No. 12 — Berry Pudding. 

The same recipe as for No. 11, substituting berries for 
cherries. 

No. 13 — Daisy's Cake. 

Three eggs, half a pint sugar, half a pint flour, two 
tablespoonfuls sweet milk, one teaspoonful baking powder, 
rind and juice of one lemon. 

No. 14 — Creamy Pudding-Sauce. 

Half a pound brown sugar, a quarter of a pound butter, 
four tablespoonfuls sweet cream, juice and rind of one 
lemon. 

" First we will attend to the pudding, as that takes the 
longest to cook," said Aunt J^ie. " Amy, you may beat 
the eggs and grate and squeeze the lemon for your cake; 
Mabel may pick the cherries off their stems, and see that 
every one is perfectly clean — ^no scrap of a leaf or any- 
thing else sticking to it — and Jessie can begin upon the 
pudding." 






32 SIX LITTLE COOKS 

"What is a 4ight pint,' Aunt Jane?" said Jessie. 

"A pint not pressed down very hard. One of the 
first things you have to learn is just how to measure 
flour. It musn't be packed too hard, or jour cake will 
be liard too; it musn't be put in too lightly, or the cake 
will fall and be heavy and ' soggy.' It must be pressed 
down just hard enough, and that you'll soon learn how 
to do." 

" I don't see any half-pint measure here, mamma," said 
Amy. 

"A common tumbler holds half a pint; not one of 
those that slant in towards the bottom, but one that goes 
down straight, like this. Now, Jessie, you may warm 
the butter a little, so that it will stir easily into the milk. 
We need not be as particular not to melt it as we are in 
making cake. Dissolve the soda in a quarter of a tea- 
cup of warm water — ^not boiling, remember, or you 
destroy its strength — measure your flour and put the 
cream tartar into the sieve with it, so that it may be 
thoroughly mixed." 

"Can't you ever use flour without sifting. Aunt Jane?" 
asked Jessie, who was not fond of taking extra trouble. 

" Never, if you want to be sure of having things nice," 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 33 

said her aunt. " In the first place, you often find scraps 
of other things in the flour, like little sticks or straws; 
and then the sifting makes it much easier to mix with 
any liquid, and less liable to be lumpy. Now beat the 
eggs — not very long — and then stir all together, putting 
the flour in last. Ah! your pints must have been a little 
too light; that is not quite what is called a stifi^ batter; 
we must put in a little more. There, that will do. Now 
stir it in very thoroughly, putting in the cherries gradu- 
ally." 

" What's that funny-looking thing for, Aunt Jane?" 
asked Jessie. 

" That is called a form, and is to pour the pudding 
into. In old times, before such things were known, we 
used either to bake our batter-puddings in the oven, or 
make them stiff enough to tie in a cloth. This is a great 
improvement." 

The batter was now poured mto the form, (which was 
previously well buttered,) leaving a little room for it to 
swell in, and the form, after being tightly closed, was 
plunged into the kettle of boiling water ready to receive 
it. " Now we can forget all about it for two hours," 
said Aunt Jane, " except that we must be sure not to let 



• 1 



34 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

the water boil away so tliat any part of the form is left 
nncovered. Kow, Amy dear, for your cake." 

Amy had the eggs beaten and every thing measured 
out, so there was nothing to do but put it together, 
which was a very simple matter, there being no butter. 
First the sugar and yolks were beaten up, then the lemon 
was added, then the milk; afterward a little flour (sifted 
with the baking-powder) and a little white of egg alter- 
nately, until all was in. , 

"This can be baked in one large cake or in the little 
gem-tins, just as you please, Amy," said her mother. 
"Whichshallitbe?" 

"Oh, the little ones, please 1 They look so cunning, and 
then it seems so much more when there are a good many 
of them !" 

"Very well; you may butter the tins and fill them 
half full, then put them all into one pan, as we did the 
first day. Are you almost tired of waiting for your turn, 
Mabel r 

" Oh, no," said Mabel, " I love to look on and see 
the girls doing these things." 

" We must get out the scales for your ' creamy sauce/ 
and you can learn how to weigh things. We will take 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 35 

the sugar first, because that will not soil anything. And 
that reminds me of a suggestion I saw in an excellent 
receipt-book lately, that there should be paper bags ready 
to slip sugar and flour and such dry things into after they 
were weighed and measured, so as to save using so many 
dishes. I thought it would be a good plan to try it." 

" Shall we make some bags, aunty?" 

"]^o, I think we need not do that if Khoda will save 
us some of those that are sent from the grocers. They 
are usually only burnt up. Now take a good large bowl 
for beating your pudding-sauce in, so that you won't be 
afraid of spattering anything. You must stir the butter 
to a cream first with the smallest-sized wooden spoon, 
then add the sugar, little by little, and afterward the 
cream, beating tliem all the while until they are as light 
as possible. The lemon goes in last. Some people put 
a little wine, but I think we'll do without that. Now 
we will just take off the cover of the tea-kettle and set 
the bowl into it. After a while it will all be melted to- 
gether into a thick, creamy froth, and then it may be 
taken off, but it must not be allowed to get cool until it 
is served. You must ask Rhoda to keep it in a warm 
place, and then just heat it up the last thing before she 



86 6IX LITTLE COOKS. 

Eeitds in tlie pudding, liut not boil it. Pudding sauces 
should never boil." 

" Do Just see how Mabel has spelt ' recipe ' on tlie 
cover of lier book!" said Grace, who had just come in 
aud was spying around. "Bessipy-book!" 

"That's a very natural mistake," said Aunt Jane 
kindly, " and it isn't quite polite in you to laugh at her. 
She spells it as it sounds. "Wlien I was a little girl 
nobody said anything but receipt-books; now that 
'recipe ' seems to be the fashion, I have adopted it, but I 
find myself quite as often speaking of ' receipts,' and I 
think there is something to be said in its favor. How- 
ever, the main point ia to find out whether the dishes 
made after our recipes are good. Mabel has plenty of 
time yet to learn how to spell them." 

When the pudding came on the table, attended by its 
foaming sauce, there was a general murmur of approba- 
tion ; but after everybody had been helped, and had eaten 
the first spoonful, the murmur changed to many-voiced 
applause. 

"Really remarkably good," said papa; "you don't 

'■- say that my little Mabel actually made this 

[abel, I see you are destined to be the support 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 37 

of your father's gray hairs. Wliat shall we do to reward 
these industrious cooks?" 

" I know what I wish you would do," said Grace; " but 
I'm afraid you won't." 

"No harm in telling what it is," said her mother. 
" Perhaps we will." 

"Let us make some candy this afternoon, and ask all 
the other girls to come in," said Grace, boldly, looking 
ont of the comers of both eyes at once, to see the eftect 
of her proposition. 

" I think you might better ask Aunt Jane first if she 
chooses to spend the afternoon as well as the morning in 
your instruction." 

" Aunt Jane would like the fun as well as any body," 
observed that obliging relative. 

" Then, as this happens to be Rhoda's afternoon out, 
and you can have the kitchen all to yourselves, I, — think, 
— perhaps, — you, — may! " 

Chorus of " Oh, good, good; that's perfectly splendid! " 

"Aunt Jane, do you know how to make caramels?" 

"And cream candy?" 

"And cocoanut drops? " 

"And butter-scotch?" 



38 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

"And taffy?" 

"And chocolate creams? " 

" Well, I must say/' said Mrs. King, langlnng, " you 
are very moderate in your demands. Yes, I know how 
to make all tliose and ever so many more; but we won't 
undertake to exhaust my knowledge in this one after- 
noon. Get your books, and I will write down some of 
the most favorite recipes." 



"'^ No. 15 — Chocolate Caramels. 



■ '4 



Half a pint milk, one and a half ounces (or squares), of 
Baker's unsweetened chocolate, softened over the fire 
with as little water as possible; let the milk boil, then 
stir in the chocolate very hard, add half a pint granulated 
sugar and two tablespoonfuls molasses; boil until very 
thick, taking great care not to burn it, pour on well-but- 
tered tins, and when partly cold cut it into small squares. 

No. 16 — Chicago Caramels. .-- 

One cup chocolate, (measure after breaking into small 
lumps,) one of boiled milk, two of brown sugar, one of 
molasses, one tablespoonful flour and one of melted but- 
ter; boil slowly, until it will stiffen in cold water. 



\ 

V 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 39 

No. 17 — CocoANUT Drops. 

Grate a cocoanut, take half its weight in sugar, "beat 
the white of one egg to a stiff froth, and stir with it 
enough of the cocoanut and sugar, well mixed together, 
to make into small cakes, which should be baked on but- 
tered paper, in a very moderate oven. If any cocoanut 
is left over, beat another egg and stir in the rest. 

No. 18 — Ckeam Candy. 

One pound granulated sugar; one-half teaspoonful 
cream tartar, one wine-glass vinegar; water enough to 
wet the sugar; flavor to taste willi lemon or vanilla. 
Boil until it will harden in cold water, but not become 
brittle; it must be tried frequently; then pour into plates, 
and when nearly cold, pull until it becomes white. If 
. you do not wish to take this trouble, a very good candy 
can be made by pouring it into a pan and leaving it to 
harden. 

No. 19 — Chocolate and Cream Candy. 

One .pound sugar, water enough to moisten it; boil 
until it becomes sugary when stirred in a saucer without 
water; then take it off the stove and stir until nearly 



40 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

hard. To half the quantity add one ounce grated choc- 
olate, which you must stir in a separate dish; when near- 
ly cold spread the chocolate candy smoothly out in a 
deep, square pan, well buttered, and the white over it; 
when cold they will adhere to each other. 

No. 20— Soft Candy. 

One pound bro^vn sugar, three tablespoonfuls water; 
while boiling add a quarter of a pound butter; when 
thick and roj^y, take it from the fire and stir till it grains; 
then ])our into buttered plates. For nut candy make the 
above recipe, stin'ing in nuts while it is still over the fire. 

No. 21 — MoRRisviLLE Candy. 

One pound coffee sugar, one-half pint New Orleans 
molasses, one-half pint water, two teaspoonfuls butter, 
one of soda; stir all together and boil till it thickens; 
when sufficiently boiled it will be waxy. 

No. 22 — ^EvERTON Taefy. 

One and a half pounds brown sugar, three ounces but- 
ter, one and a lialf teacups cold water. Boil all together 
with the grated rind of one lemon, and when cold add 
the juice. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 41 

Ifo. 23 — Maple Chocolate Balls. 

Crack half a pound maple sugar into small bits, and 
melt it with a wine-glassful of cold water; when perfectly- 
dissolved let it boil hard for five minutes; while the sugar 
is boiling, crack the chocolate and put it in a bowl over 
a boiling tea-kettle; when the sugar is boiled, take it 
from the fire, put it in a cool place, and beat so stiff that 
it may be made into balls; flour the hands slightly, and 
roll into balls of the size of a marble, placing each one, 
as done, on a buttered plate; when hard, drop them one 
at a time in the chocolate; turn them carefully with a 
fork until covered with the chocolate, then place them on 
buttered paper to cool and harden. 

K^o. 24 — Molasses Candy. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, two tablespoons 
melted butter, one do. vinegar; boil without stirring until 
it hardens in cold water, then stir in a teaspoonful soda 
and pour on buttered tins; when cool, pull and cut into 
sticks. Never stir molasses candy while it is boiling. 

No. 25 — Butter-Scotch. 
One cup butter, one of molasses, one of vinegar, a 



42 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

pinch of soda; boil half an hour, then try by dropping a 
little into water; if crisp, it is done. 

" We made some last winter by a receipt almost ex- 
actly like that," said Hose, " and it was perfectly awful. 
It never pjot hard at all." 

"What kind of molasses did you use?" asked her aunt. 

" I don't know; whatever we happened to have." 

"You must always take New Orleans molasses for 
candy. We'll try some with that this afternoon, and I 
think you won't complain of it. Now here is one that I 
think is the best of all." 

No. 26 — Chocolate Ceeams. ' '** 

One pound white sugar, water to moisten it, half a 
teaspoonful acetic acid, flavor with vanilla. Try the 
candy just as for chocolate and cream, ( No, 19.) When 
it is sugary, take it off the stove and stir until nearly 

hard, then roll into small balls of equal size and put 
them on a buttered plate to cool. For the coating, put 
one-half pound chocolate into a pan and set it over a 
kettle of boiling water; stir until entirely melted. Add 
a little vanilla, and white sugar enough to thicken, and 
keep in a warm place. When the white cream-drops 





* 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 43 

are cold, take a fork and roll them in the melted choco- 
late; if not smooth let them cool a little, and then form 
them with the hand. 

" Now," said Aunt Jane, when all this had heen written, 
" what kind shall we make?" 

" Chocolate creams ! " said several voices at once. 

"Yery well; but we have no acetic acid. If you can 
pursuade one of the boys to run around to the drug store 
and get some, we'll try something else first." 

" Butter-scotch is very nice," suggested Mabel. 

"And very easy, too," said her aunt; " so you little ones 
may cook some of that while we are doing the other. But 
do be careful not to bum your dresses! Mamma would 
think a plateful of candy a poor recompense for a singed 
apron, not to speak of worse mishaps. So I hope you'll 
be very careful." 

"How delicious it looks," exclaimed Edith, gazing 
into the sauce-pan where the cream candy, which they 
decided on trying first, was slowly boiling. 

" I think it will be good," said Aunt Jane. " But I 
must warn you not to be disappointed if you don't suc- 
ceed well the first time you try it, nor the second. It is 



44 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

60 entirely a matter of judgment to know just how long 
to boil it, just when it has reached the exact point of 
' sugaidness ' that it really needs long practice before you 
can do it without a mistake." 

" It seems to me you do nothing but try it," said 
Grace, as she saw her aunt for the dozenth time drop a 
little of the boiled sugar into a saucer, and, after stirring 
it awhile, pour it back again. "I shouldn't have the 
patience to do that so many times." 

" Then you will never be a successful candy-maker," 
said her aunt very decidedly. 

By this time the acetic acid had arrived, and the much- 
desired chocolate creams were begun. "Be sure," said 
Aunt Jane, while the chocolate was melting, " to stir it 
only by constantly rubbing it one way, against the side of 
the pan. Don't stir it round and round. The main body 
of it should be disturbed just as little as possible." 

" Why wouldn't it do to use vanilla chocolate," said 
Eose, " and not put the vanilla in separately? " 

"Because, in the first place, it would be very expensive, 
and then you don't want sweetened chocolate to make 
candy of. Melting the sugar in it while it is cooking, is 
an important part of the process. Now, I think it will 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 45 

be firm enough. Suppose we try a ball, and if it is not, 
we can boil it a little more." 

But it was, and as it was necessary to keep it liquid, 
the pan was set over hot water at the back of the stove, 
the result being a most inviting-looking dishful of brown 
figures of various sorts; for the girls, in defiance of the 
recipe, had exercised their taste in making cones, lozenges, 
pipe-stems and various fancy shapes, the rich liquid giv- 
ing an impartial coating to all. 

" There's only one fault to be found with these things," 
said one of the boys, as he devoured the share which had 
been assigned to him, " there are not enough of them." 



46 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



FOUKTH DAT. 

" Girls, let ns give them all a surprise to-morrow," 
whispered Aunt Jane mysteriously one evening. " Sup- 
pose we ask Khoda to let us cook the breakfast." 

" All by ourselves? " asked Mabel with large eyes. 

" All by ourselves! That will be the joke of it. How 
astonislied your papa and mamma will be to see a breakfast 
that their own little daughters have prepared for them ! 
They will think we are getting on famously." 

So they all stole out to the kitchen, and finding Khoda 
in a good humor, the plan of operations was soon made. 
The recipes were as follows: 

No. 27 — Yeal Hash. 

Cut off every scrap of fat, gristle and skin from the 
veal, chop rather fine, and heat together with a small 
lump of butter, a little milk or cream, and salt and pepper 
to taste. When done there should be no liquid visible. 
Serve on toast, which should be dipped in boiling water as 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 47 

fast as toasted, and immediately buttered. Set in the 
oven or heater until the last moment, as it is very poor 
when cold. When served for dinner, the dish may be 
garnished with slices of lemon. 

No. 28 — ^Lexington Avenue Potatoes. 

Chop cold boiled potatoes as fine as for corned beef 
hash. Put them in a sauce-pan with a lump of butter and 
milk or cream enough to cover them ; add a little chopped 
parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir until the milk 
is quite absorbed, and serve hot. 

No. 29 — ^Elmhurst Johnny Cake. 

One and a half cups corn meal, half a cup of rice, two 
eggs, two tablespoonfuls sugar, two heaping do. of butter, 
three heaping do. of flour, one cup milk, three teaspoon- 
fills baking powder. Scald the meal until every particle 
of it has been wet by the boiling milk, then add the rice, 
and afterward the other ingredients. 

No. 30 — Plain Omelette. 

Take one egg for every two persons at table; beat them 
well with a pinch of salt and a little parsley; for four 
eggs a frying pan about the size of a dinner plate will be 



48 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

required. Put a tablespoonful of butter into the pan, 
and when this is melted pour in the omelette. The mo- 
ment it begins to cook raise the edge (which will be done 
first) with a knife, and as soon as the whole is " set " so 
that no liquid part remains, fold it together and serve. 
If more than this is required, it will be best to make two 
omelettes. 

"Now I am going to getEhoda's directions for coffee," 
said Aunt Jane, " for I don't know any one else who 
makes it quite so nicely. You must tell us your secret, 
Khoda." 

" Why, laws, honey," said Khoda, highly flattered, " I 
jus' take 'nuf coffee and stir it up with an egg or two, 
'cordin' as I happen to have 'em, and put 'bout as much 
water to it as I think they'll drink, and let it bile till its 
done. That's all." 

" Well, Aunt Jane," said Grace, very gravely, " I sup- 
pose I am to write down Khoda's recipe. ISTumber 31. 
About enough coffee, some hot water, as many eggs as 
vou happen to have, stir it all up together, and let it boil 
till its done. Is that it?" 

" I think, perhaps, I can make it a little more definite, 
and easier for other people to understand," said Aunt 



i 



^^^^■i_i».^d 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 49 

Jane, " but I'm afraid I slian't be able to put E-lioda's 
judgment into the receipt-book. Tlie reason why so many 
people make poor coffee is that they never iind out just 
how much coffee to put to just how much water, nor ex- 
actly how long to boil it. Another thing that you are 
almost sure to find where the coffee is bad, is that the 
coffee-pot is not thoroughly emptied, washed and scalded 
after each using. I have known cooks who never even 
threw out the grounds of the day before until they 
wanted to use the coffee-pot again for breakfast! Now 
look at the inside of Ehoda's. You see it has not only 
been emptied and washed, but wiped perfectly dry, so 
there will be no old, stale taste to mingle with the fresh 
one. I will give you my recipe, which means the same 
as Khoda's." 

'No. 31 — To Make Coffee. 

One quart boiling water, half a pint ground coffee, one 
egg, half a pint cold water; mix the coffee first with the 
egg, (which should not be beaten,) then with the cold 
water very thoroughly; pnt it in the coffee boiler, pour 
on the boiling water and let it boil fifteen or twenty min- 
utes, then set it where it will not boil, and throw in one- 



.X 



50 



SIX LITTLE OOOKS. 



\ 



i^] 






l^- - 



half gill of cold water. After standing a moment it will 
be ready to serve. This makes very rich coflfee. If it is 
desired less strong, take less coffee, and cold water in 
proportion. 

"How mnch is a gill, mamma?" asked Amy. 

"A gill is a quarter of a pint; half a tumblerful, or 
about two small wine-glassfuls," said her mother. " A 
half gill may be measured by putting four even table- 
spoonfuls of water into a cup and noticing how high they 
come up. Then you will always have your measure at 
hand." 

"Is that all we are going to have for breakfast?" in- 
quired Grace. 

"Touwill think it is quite enough when you have 
done cooking it, Gracie. It is rather an elaborate break- 
fast. Now if two of you will run and slip on your cook- 
ing aprons, we will begin our preparations to-night. We 
should have to get up almost too early if we should try 
to do it all in the morning." 

Grace and Amy were ready in a twinkling, and wliile 
one chopped the cold potatoes left from dinner, the other 
prepared the veal, and cut it into small lumps ready for 
mincing. When the potatoes were done, the veal took 



¥ 



ATJNT jane's cooking CLASS. 51 

their place in the chopping- bowl, and after being minced 
was mixed with a little salt and pepper, and set away in 
the ice-box for the night. 

Bright and early the next morning, the four conspira- 
tors, (as Grace called them, because their movements 
were so secret,) repaired softly to the kitchen, where 
Rhoda had a good clear fire. Grace set about the Johnny- 
cake, while Amy ground the coffee, and Mabel beat up 
the eggs for an omelette. 

" You see, Rhoda keeps her roasted coffee in a glass 
jar," said Aunt Jane. " That is an improvement on the 
old way of shutting it up in tin canisters, which are much 
more apt to acquire a stale odor." 

" Do the glass jars come on purpose? " asked Amy. 

" No, they are meant for preserves, but the reason they 
are so good for this purpose is that they can be closed up 
tightly from the air. You see this one can't be opened 
without the wrench." 

"When the Johnny-cake went into the oven, Grace took 
charge of the veal and potatoes at the back of the stove, 
while the little girls toasted bread at the front. When 
all else was ready to dish, Mabel turned her omelette into 
the spider, and it was done in a few minutes and sent in 



52 



SIX LITTLE COOKS 



^'1 



^1 



to the table smoking hot. Then the girls went to their 
rooms to wash their hands and take off their aprons, but 
their flushed faces betrayed at the breakfast table tliat 
something mi usual had taken place. 

^ " What gave you all such rosy cheeks?'' inquired Mr. 
Vernon. " You must have been snowballing, or doing 
something of tliat kind." 

" Give you three guesses to find out, Papa,'' said Grace, 
'' and if you don't guess rightly you can't have any break- 
fast." 

" Jumping two hundred and fifty times from the roof 
of the coal-shed doT\Ti to the ground," said her father. 

"JSTo, not that. Oh, how far off you are! You're not 
even warm." 

" Running races with the steam-cars, to see which 
could travel a mile in the shortest time." 

" Wrong again ! Why papa, you're perfectly freezing." 

'' Well, as my breakfast is to depend on it," said her 
falhei, "I think it won't be safe for me to risk another 
cuess. I'll turn over my third one to mamma." 

It is to be feared that mamma may have received a 
hint fi'om a glance of Aunt June's eyes, for she suggested 
quite promptly: 



ATJNT jane's cooking CLASS. 53 

" Cooking tlie breakfast.^' 

" Eight at last! And what do you think of it, now you 
know who did it?'' 

^^ I think it looks superior to any thing tliey have at 
Delmonico's, but you don't mean to say j^ou made this 
coffee?" 

" Yes we did — every drop of it! Ask Aunt Jane if 
we didn't." 

" I'll tell you what it is," said Mr. Yenion, '^ I believe 
there's some hocus-pocus about this matter. Your Aunt 
Jane gets behind you some how or other, and takes hold 
of your hands, just as we do of baby's when we make her 
write a letter; and you get the idea that you have done 
the whole thing yourselves." 

" IsTo, no, no! It's all honest Indian. She doesn't come 
near us. She just sits at one end of the table and tells 
us what to do, and we do it. She never touches a thing." 

" I think Aunt Jane deserves a gold medal," said Mr. 
Vernon. 

" I wish we could do something by ourselves this after- 
noon, without troubling her," said Grace. " Don't you 
tliink we are enough advanced now, mamma?" 

" I suppose you might make something very simple. 
How would ginger-snaps do, for instance?" 



r 1'7 ti 



:\f 



fp 






it:f 



54 



SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



" Oh, that would be capital!" exclaimed Grace. " We 
haven't had any ginger-snaps in an age. Are they hard 
to make, Annty ? " 

" Not at all hard to mix up, but they require a good 
deal of patience to roll and cut out. However, I don't 
suppose you would mind that." 

" Oh, the longer it took the better I should like it! I 
want to make a good large panful. Please give me tbe 
receipt." And Grace drew out' her note-book a,nd pencil, 
which, with a variety of other stores, she always kept at 
hand in her pocket. 

" Do let your aunt finish her breakfast in peace!" said 
Mr. Vernon. " I won't have her plagued all the time. 
By and by, Grace, you can attack her«,gain, but now let 
us think of something else." 

Aunt Jane did not wait to be attacked. After break- 
fast she gave the girls, of her own accord, |f he recipes 

which follow. 

« 

1^0. 32 — Ginger Snaps. ^^ 

One cup butter or lard; if only lard is used add a little 
salt. One and a half cups molasses, one cup sugar, a 
quarter of a cup sour milk, two teaspoonfuls soda, two 
do. ginger, flour enough to roll easUy^ 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 65 

No. 33 — German Puffs. 

Take six eggs, leaving out three whites, one pint milk, 
five tablespoonfuls flour, one of softened butter. Bake 
in gem pans. Whip the whites of the eggs; afterward 
stir in the juice of six oranges and half a pound pow- 
dered sugar. When the puffs are done, pour the frosting 
all over them. 

No. 34 — Dover Cake. 

One pound sugar, one do. flour, one-half do. butter, 
six eggs, half cup milk, half teaspoonful soda. 

No. 35 — Henry Clay Cake. 

One pound flour, one do. sugar, one ounce butter, one- 
half pint cream, one teaspoon soda, juice and rind of one 
lemon, one-third of a grated nutmeg. For some tastes 
the nutmeg is better omitted. 

No. 36 — ^Lemon Cake. 

One pound flour, one do. sugar, one-half do. butter, 
one small teacup milk, small teaspoonful soda, four eggs, 
mix as usual; the last thing before putting in the oven, 
stir in the juice of a large fresh lemon. 



I 









.1 



4 



56 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



Ko. 37 — TcDOR Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, 
three cups flour, three eggs, one teaspoon soda, two cream 
tartar. 

No. 38 — Mother's Cookies. 

One cup butter, two of sugar, three well-beaten eggs, 
a quarter of a teaspoonful soda, half a nutmeg, small 
half-teaspoonful cloves or cinnamon. 



*^ Xo. 39 — Ellen's Cookies. 



Three-quarters of a cup lard, the same of butter, one 
cup milk, one teaspoon soda, rind p.nd half the juice of 
one lemon, just enough flour to roll it out with. Very 
rich.. 

ITo. 40 — ^Plain Cookies. 



• One pound flour, one-half do. sugar, six oz. butter, 
three eggs, one teaspoon soda, a little nutmeg or other 
ij spice. If richer cookies are desired take one-half pound 

butter. 

1^0. 41 — Bridget's Cookies. 
cnps sugar, one do. butter, one do. milk, two 



f I 

•f I 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 57 

eggs, two even teaspoons soda, four of cream tartar; spice 
if you like it; enough flour to roll easily. 

No. 42 — PooE Man's Cake. 

One cup sugar, two do. flour, one do. milk, one heap- 
ing tablespoonful butter, one small teaspoon soda and 
two of cream tartar, one egg, one-half teaspoonful mixed 
cinnamon and cloves. . Half a cup of seeded raisins im- 
proves it. 

No.' 43 — ^EiNa Jumbles. 

One pound butter, one do. sugar, one and a quarter of 
flour, four eggs. Two tablespoonfuls of any kind -of 
flavoring, or a small wineglass of rosewater. Cream the 
butter, add the sugar, then the yolks of eggs, then half 
the flour, then the whites, then the rest of the flour, 
stirred lightly. Cut out with a tumbler or cake-cutter, 
and from the middle of each, with a smaller cutter or the 
top of a canister, cut a round hole. Bake quickly, and 
sift fine sugar over them as soon as they are done. 

No. 44 — Plain Jumbles. 

One egg, one Qup sugar, one-half do. butter, three tea- 
spoonfuls milk, one do. cream tartar, one-half do. soda. 



58 BIX LITTLE COOK8. 

No. 46 — Lemon Jumbles. 

The above recipe, with the juice and rind of one large 
lemon, or the juice of two and the grated rind of one. 

" There!" said Aunt Jane, when the last one had been 
written down, " I think I have given you occupation for 
along time — that is, if you make up all these good things. 
Which do you mean to begin on? " 

^' Oh, please let us make ginger-snaps and some one 
other kind, and we'll all help each other. Tell us some 
kind of nice cookies." 

" You might better take something that is not to be 
rolled out, as there is but one rolling-board and pin. 
Suppose you try Tudor cake? The materials are not ex- 
pensive, and if you spoil them there will not be much 
lost." 

" Now, Aunt Jane, that's too bad! "We're not going to 
spoil anything! Just examine us and see if we don't 
know how to put cake together! " 

"^ Well, take that recipe, aixd tell me how you would go 
to work." 

" First, we'll rub the butter to a cream, then stir in the 
sugar, then the yolks of eggs; (while one has been mixing 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 59 

it, the- others have been beating the eggs, you know) 
then the milk and part of the flour; then — " 

"No," said her aunt; "you've left out something." 
"Oh, yes; first you measure the cream tartar and sift it 
with the flour; then you put the whites of the eggs, then 
the soda, carefully dissolved in warm water, and poured 
off* without the dregs; then the rest of the flour, and then 
you bake it." 

" Yery well indeed, and you musn't forget to line your 
cake-pan with buttered paper if you want the cake very 
delicate, though it is not absolutely necessary. And you 
must always warm the pan or cake-tins first. Now tell 
me how you'll set about the ginger-snaps." 

" Oh, that's easy. Let me see — ^no eggs; I'll take lard, 
because that's easiest; set it near the fire to soften, stir in 
the sugar, and then the molasses. and ginger; dissolve the 
soda in warm water and put it into the sour milk, and 
stir them in; and then just keep stirring in flour until 
you think you can roll it out." 

" When it gets too hard to stir with the spoon, you may 
mix it with your hand," said Aunt Jane. " But don't 
get in too much flour; it wants to have just as little as 
possible; and don't forget to flour the pie-board." 



60 



SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



^■■■- V 



" Why do you say ' softened' butter, Mamma, in some 
of these receipts?" asked Amy. 

" Because you never really 7nelt butter for cake, even 
quite common cake; that is, you don't let it turn to oil. 
The nicest way is to set the cup or bowl with it in, into a 
pan of boiling water, and then it softens enough to have 
the sugar stirred into it, which is the main thing. For 
the more delicate kinds of cake, butter must be rubbed to 
a cream, either with a wooden spoon or with the hand." 

^^It seems to me nearly every thing has the juice and 
rind of a lemon in it," said Mabel. 

" Fresh lemons are a great addition to cake," said Aunt 
Jane, " bat you musn't make the mistake of flavoring 
every thing alike. There are some houses where all their 
cakes and custards and puddings taste alike, though they 
have a variety of recipes, because they make every thing 
with lemon, or nutmeg, or cinnamon, or whatever their 
taste may incline them to. For instance, I would never 
put lemon into any two things to be eaten at the same 
meal. You can have vanilla, or bitter almond, or rose 
water, or, what is often best, no flavoring at all." 

" There is one condition I must positively make," said 
Mrs. Vernon, as the impatient cook^ left the dinner table. 



I 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 61 

" I can not liave Elioda come back from her ' afternoon 
out' to find a disorderly kitchen and a great pile of 
dishes and pans to be washed. If you work in her nice, 
clean kitchen, you must clear up all traces of yourselves 
before she comes back." 

"Oh, yes, we will,'' said all at once, and they did it, 
too, for they knew that if they failed to keep tlieir part 
of the agreement they would not enjoy the privilege an- 
other time. So as soon as Khoda had washed the dishes 
and " tidied up," as she called it, in the kitchen, they 
took possession of her dominions and set to work, after a 
parting caution from Aunt Jane as to the prime necessity 
of clean hands and nails. 

We need not follow them through the afternoon's oper- 
ations, which were quite successful, and produced a great 
dish full of nice ginger-snaps, and two flat, thin pansful of 
cake. Then they washed the utensils they had used, 
scraped the flour from the pie-board, and wiped it from 
the table without spilliug any on the floor except a little 
dusting of it, w^hich was easily disposed of with a broom, 
and put every article back into its place. 

" Why, bless ye, honey," said Khoda, when Mrs. Yer- 
non asked her about it in the evening, " you wouldn't 
never have knowed they'd been there at all!" 



;i 



62 



SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



1 



m 

m 



m 



FIFTH DAT. 

" Grace, you and I are invited out to exercise our art 
to-day," said Mrs. King, one morning. "Your Aunt 
Carroll has sent over to say that she expects company to 
lunch; her cook is sick, and the other girl very busy iron- 
ing, and as it wiUbe all she can do herself to entertain her 
friends and see to the table, she would like to have us 
get the lunch ready, with Eose and Jessie's help, and 
then I am to be company, and you three girls are to wait 
on table." 

"That will be glorious!" said Grace. "May I write 
down the recipes now?" 

" Yes, and Rose can copy them jfrom your book. We 
will begin with" 

No. 46 — Chocolate. 

Take two oz. (or two squares) of Baker's chocolate, 
break it into a little boiling water and stir over the fire 
until it becomes a smooth paste. If unsweetened choco- 



UL 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 63 

late is used, add eight even tablespoonfuls granulated 
sugar, then add, little by little, a pint of boiling water 
and a pint of scalded milk. Stir it thoroughly, and 
allow it to simmer (not boil) for ten minutes; then serve. 

No. 47 — Saratoga Potatoes. 

Pare raw potatoes; slice them as thin as possible with 
a potato-cutter (when this is not at hand, they must be 
Bhxmed with a knife); lay them in cold water for an hour 
or more, then dry them in a towel. Have melted lard at 
least two inches deep in a kettle; when it is hot cover the 
surface with the dried slices, sprinkle a little salt over 
them, turn them with a skimmer, and when done lay 
them on a doubled brown paper in the open oven. Fry 
them all in this way, piling them up on the paper as fast 
as they are taken out of the kettle. 

No. 48 — Chicken Croquettes. . 

14 oz. boiled chicken, chopped fine, one-half pint milk, 
a quarter of a ib. butter, one teaspoonfiil salt, two even 
tablespoonfuls flour, a pinch of Cayenne pepper ( very 
small). Mix the flour smooth in a little milk, put the rest 
of the milk to heat over a saucepan of boiling water, and 



64 



SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



wlujn Rcalded pour in the flour, with the salt, pepper and 
butter; when like thick cream, mix thoroughly with the 
cliickea and put it aside to become cold and stiff; then 
make it into twelve long shaped balls, press them per- 
fectly smooth, roll them in beaten yolk of egg, afterward 
in bread crumbs; fry in lard deep enough for them to 



swim ni. 



No. 49 — Yeal Balls. 



One and a half lbs. veal, chopped very fine, three oz. 
salt pork do., one teaspoonful summer savory, one and a 
liulf do. salt, one-half do. sage, two-thirds do pepper; mix 
thoroughly and make into flat balls. Let them fry slowly 
in lard or drippings for half an hour. 

No. 50 — Mixed Ceoquettes. -— 

One chicken, two lbs. veal; boil separately, putting 
them on in cold water, just enough to cover them. Chop 
fine with one-third of a loaf bread, season with salt, pep- 
per and a very little mace, beat three eggs light and mix 
with the above, together with the broth of the chicken; 
make up in oblong balls and fry in hot lard and butter, 
equal parts. 



^ 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 65 

"We're not going to make all these to-day, are we, 
Aunt Jane?" inquired Grace, at this stage of her writing. 

" By no means," said her aunt, " but I thought I 
might as well give you several croquette receipts at once. 
"We can select from among them when we find what ma- 
terials Aunt Carroll has on liand." 

" How can we t^U whether a tablespoonful is meant to 
be heaping or not, mamma, if it isn't water or some such 
thing?" asked Amy. 

" Salt is always to be measured even ; also soda, cream 
tartar and any kind of spice. Of such things as sugar or 
flour, it is understood that they are to be a little heaped — 
about as much as the depth of the spoon-bowl, unless it 
is expressly stated ' even.' " 

"What else are we to make for lunch, Aunt Jane?" 

" We must have some salad, and for that I will give 
you recipe" 

No. 51 — Mayonnaise Dressing. 

Take the yolk of one egg in a large bowl, and stir it 
with the right hand, pouring in with the left, not more 
than a teaspoonful at a time of olive oil, until you have 
used half a tumblerful; this will make a thick batter. 



66 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

Into the tumbler which contained the oil put half a wine 

glass of vinegar, a small half teaspoonful of mustard and 

an even teaspoonful salt; also a dusting of Cayenne pep- 

^ per, very small; mix these thoroughly, and add slowly to 

l|( the oil batter, stirring all the time. Whfen much salad is 

j used in a family, it is well to make double or treble this 

quantity, which, if closely covered and kept in a cool place, 
will keep for weeks. 

4 

, No. 52 — Dresden Dressing. 

Hub the yolks of three hard boiled eggs quite smooth; 
add half a small onion, grated, two tablespoonfuls chopped 
parsley, one teaspoonful salt, one do. sugar, one small do. 
dry mustard; mix well, and while stirring fast add a wine- 
glassful (or a quarter of a tumblerful ) of sweet oil; when 
quite thick, stir in the same quantity of vinegar. This 
may be used for cold beef, mutton or veal. The meat 
should be cut into small bits and mixed with the dressing 
before serving. A palatable lunch-dish. 

" I'm sorry you haven't learned to make pastry yet," 
said Mrs. King, " for some kind of pudding baked in a 
paste, is an elegant addition to a lunch table. I think 
your next lesson must be on paste, and tlien I have some 



MM 



> ■• 



ATJNT jane's cooking CLASS. 67 

beautiful recipes for you. There is no time for jelly or 
blaiic-mange; we must substitute some sort of meringue 
or custard, according to what materials we find ready." 

"We shall have to have somebody else's bread, shan't 
we?'' 

" Tes, we must have a plate of plain bread, but we • 
ought to have some biscuits or rolls of some kind. Rolls 
have to be made with yeast, and that is rather beyond our 
powers, but we can have popovers or soda-biscuit, or bet- 
ter still, Mrs. Miller's breakfast puffs." 

No. 63 — ^Breakfast Pcjffs. 

Tliree-quarters of a pound flour, one oz. butter, one 
pint milk, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful salt. Beat the 
eggs together and stir them into the milk, pour about 
two-thirds of the milk on the flour, stirring gradually, 
that it may be perfectly smooth; melt, and add the but- 
ter, and beat very hard for three minutes, then add the 
remainder of the milk, pour the batter into gem-pans and 
bake in a very quick oven. 

No. 54 — Graham Popovers. 
One pint graham flour, one do. white flour, one 






•V 



■ I ^ 



% 



\ 



68 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

quart milk, two even teaspoonfuls salt, tliree eggs. Put 
together exactly like breakfast puffs. 

" Then, of course, we must have some cake," said Aunt 
Jane, " and it musn't be in loaves, for they wouldn't cut 
nicely so soon after baking. I think Susan's cake is the 
nicest in the world to eat fresh, but you have made that 
already, so I will give you some other recipes, and we will 
select from them afterward." 

No. 56 — Drop Cake. 

Weigh one lb. flour, from which take out three even 
tablespoonfuls, one lb. sugar, a quarter of a pound 
butter, one-half pint sweet milk, two-thirds of a teaspoon- 
ful soda, two of cream tartar, or one and a half table- 
spoonfuls baking-powder, five eggs. Butter a dripping- 
pan, and drop on the batter in separate spoonfuls. Bake 
in a quick oven. 

No. 56— Jelly Cake. 

Make drop-cake batter; have ready three well buttered 
jelly-cake tins, spread them a quarter of an inch deep 
with the batter and place them in the oven; watch them 
closely, aa they require only a few minutes to bake; have 



MHBl 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 60 

ready three pieces of brown paper on the kitchen table, 
on which to turn them out, upside down ; wipe the pans 
perfectly smooth, butter and refill them, and while the 
second set is in the oven spread those on the table with 
jelly; when the second trio is ready, tuni the cakes upside 
down on the first and proceed as before; the third trio 
completes the loaves. 

No. 67 — ^White Icing. 

Beat the whites of two eggs until jfrothy only, not 
white; add ten oz. sugar, slowly, with one hand, 
while you beat with the other. Flavor with lemon juice 
or vanilla. 

No. 58 — Chocolate Icing. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, add half a 
pint of grated sweet chocolate, and half a pint pulverized 
(not granulated,) sugar. 

No. 69 — Obangb Icma. 

Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth; add a 
quarter of a pound powdered sugar, and the grated rind 
and soft pulp of two large sour oranges and one lemon, 
Thei^ should be a gill of the juice, (half a tumbler full.) 
If it makes less than this, add another orange. 



8IX LITTLE COOES. 

Ko. 60— Orakoe Cake. 
id bake drop cake aa in the directionB for jel 
spread with orange icing; for a top-icing i 
loaf, more sugar must be added. 

No. 61 — Chocolate Cake No. 3. 
t directions for jelly cake, substituting choc 
for jelly. 

No. 62 — Cream Cakes. 
)int milk, the yolks of three eggs, one and 
spoonfuls sugar, one teaspoonful vanilla, o 
f even tablespoonfuk com starch. Leave o 
Ilk to mix tlie starch with smoothly; bo3 t 
fflien hot atir in the starch until thicker th; 
tard; then add the other ingredients, beat' 
ind continue stirring until it is so thick 
)ur from the spoon, but only drop from it. ' 
Miessfully, the milk must be heated-over, or i 
iter; never directly on the stove. When 6 
thick enough, proceed as in directions for jel 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 71 

No. 63 — Number Cake. 

Oiie cup butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four eggs, 
half a cup milk, half a teaspoonful soda and one of cream 
tartar. A very little spice improves it to some tastes; 
not more than half a teaspoonful in all of cinnamon, 
ground cloves and allspice mixed. A variation may be 
made by putting a whole cup milk, a teaspeonfiil soda 
and two of cream tartar. This makes a still lighter mix- 
ture. 

" Now there is a grand store of recipes to select from," 
said Mrs. King; " we'll go over and set about our lunch." 

E(^se and Jessie were watching for them impatiently, 
and after a little consultation with her sister, Aunt Jane 
went into the kitchen with her three pupils. 

" A hot fire and a tea kettle full of water," said she. 
" So much is readv at all events." 

w 

"I thought Bridget was ironing to-day," observed 
Grace. 

" So she is," said Kose, " but she has her own little 
charcoal iron-heater in the laundry, and she won't in- 
terfere with us at all. And I've found out where every- 
thing is, so I can bring out anything you want, Aunt 
Jane." 



72 SIXLITTLECOOK8. 

" I made out a list of wliat we should have, EoBie, 
wlieii I talked it over with vour uiother. I find elie has 
cold boiled cliickeit ready, thinking we should want 
chicken salad; but we are to have croqiicttea instead; 
also Sai'atoga potatoes; lettuije, with Mayonnaise dressing; 
cold tongue, which was boiled yesterday, and only needs 
cutting up; tipsy-cake, made with some sjjonge-cate from 
the baker's; chocolate, breaktast-puffs and drop-eakes." 

" Oh, Aunty! can we era' get it all ready in time?" 

" I think so; it is only nine o'clock now, and the luncli 
is not to be served until one. Why, we should be per- 
fect snails if we did not finish it in four hours! Your 
mamma will set tlie table before her friends come, so we 
shall have nothing to do but prepare the eatables. I 
sent over to her before breakfast, wlien I first heard that 
she expected company, to have some potatoes pared and 
laid in cold water," 

"What was that for, Aunt Jane?" 

"You'll pee presently. Now let us go to work at once. 
Get the scales, Eose, and weigh out the materials in 
Gracie's recipe for ' chicken croquettes'; Jessie, you may 
take tlie potato-slicer and cut the potatoes, for they 
have to lie anotlier hour in cold water yet; Grace, I think 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 73 

you may be trusted to make the soft custard all by your- 
self; I'll have an eye to you, and tell you if I see any- 
thing going wrong." 

" Are these the potatoes that puff out like little bal- 
loons, Aunt Jane?" said Jessie. 

"Yes, the very same; and you shall fry them, too, so 
that it will be all 'your own dish. Now, Eose, as chopping 
the chicken is merely a mechanical operation, and rather 
a long one, I'll do that while you get the batter ready to 
mix with it." 

When this was done, Mrs. King showed Rose how to 
make up the croquettes, somewhat in the shape of a 
short, fat sausage, and while this was going on, she her- 
self grated the stale bread in which they were to be 
rolled. Then all was set away until it should be time to 
cook them. 

Next came the Mayonnaise dressing, which was com- 
mitted to Grace's care, after she had finished her custard, 
and Hose undertook to make some drop-cakes. Jessie, 
who was the youngest, was. shown liow to make up and 
melt the chocolate. After Grace had finished the salad- 
dressing, she set about making the breakfast puffs, ac- 
'cording to her recipe, and so the morning wore away 
until past twelve o'clock. 



74 BIX LITTLE COOKS. 

" Now it's time to go to work in earnest," said Aunt 
Jane, whose sharp eyes had been inspecting every opera- 
tion, while she gave a wotd of advice to one, of encour- 
agement to another, or of reminder to a third. In the 
meantime she herself had not been idle, but had cut up 
a tempting-looking plateful of cold tongue, garnished 
with pretty sprigs of parsley, prepared the lettuce in a 
salad-bowl ready to receive the dressing, and neatly 
trimmed the drop-cakes, which required to be cut apart 
when they came out of the oven. 

" N^ow for a deep frying-pan of hot lard for the po- 
tatoes; Jessie, you mustn't think of another thing but 
your Saratogas from now to lunch time. Gracie may 
make the chocolate, now that her puifs are off her mind, 
and Eose, you must fry the croquettes. As it will be 
some time before they are ready to turn, you may cut up 
the sponge-cake and stick it full of those almonds that 
Jessie is cutting up; then pour the wine over it, and 
lastly the custard, which must be cold by this time, as it 
has been standing in the ice-box. Now the grand crisis 
approaches." 

At five minutes before one o'clock everything was fin- 
ished and ready to "dish"; the girls took off their cook- 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. , 75 

ing aprons and washed tlieir hands, then carried in the 
hot part of the lunch, all the rest having been previously 
placed on the table or the sideboard. " Some time when 
we have company at home, and Ehoda gets the lunch," 
said Aunt Jane, " I'll sliowyou girls how to set a table as 
beautifully as your mother does, if I can. See how every- 
thing has been provided for — not a fork or spoon forgot- 
ten! That's one of the great secrets of making any meal 
go smoothly." 

The bell r3,ng; Mrs. King took her seat among the 
guests, and the " three Hebes," as one of the ladies 
called them, waited on the table very gracefully and 
prettily, according to their previous instructions, which 
we will not stop to detail here, as Aunt Jane repeated 
them on another occasion. When the grown people had 
retired^ the waiters took their places at the table, and 
though their excitement had prevented them from feeling 
hungry while the lunch was in preparation, when they 
did finally sit down to it, you would have thought they 
had had nothing to eat for a week. 



BIX LITTLE COOES. 



SIXTH DAT. 



" You said you would show ns how to make pie-cruBt, 
Aunt Jane," said Grace one day, "Can't we learn to- 
day«" 

" Juat as well as any other day," answered JTrs. King, 
who was always glad to give pleasure, and was delighted 
to find that the interest of the Httle people in cooking 
was still kept up. " But as that is something that re- 
quires not only judgment, but strength, it will not he 
best for the little ones to attempt it for another year or 
two yet. You three older ones may begin this room- 
ing." 

Wliat was the astonishment of the amateurs when 
Aunt Jane gravely directed them to take all their mate- 
rials into the cellar! 

"To have ^perfect paste," she said, "you must have a 
cool place to make it in. To-day the kitchen is very hot, 
and although your pies would taste just as good, the paste 
would not be so flaky nor look as handsome if it were 
made so near the fire. In winter it would do verv well." 



ATJNT JANETS COOKING CLASS. 77 

Fortunately, Mrs. Yemon's cellar was dry, airy and well- 
lighted, so that it was a very pleasant place to be in on a 
hot day. " There's only one thing more I should like to 
have," said Mrs. King, " and if I lived next door I would 
send in and get it; and that is, a marble slab to roll the 
paste on. I always keep one expressly for the purpose." 

" I know the very thing, Mrs. King," said Edith, " and 
there is one next door! When our hall-table slab was 
broken. Papa had it set out in the shed, and there it is 
now, just as large as life! May I go in and get it?" 

" It would be rather heavy for you, I think; but if you 
think your mother would not object to our using it, you 
and Grace may go and bring it, together." 

Off flew the girls, and in a few minutes came back in 
triumph, lagging between them an oblong piece of pol- 
ished marble, with a great comer broken off, to be sure, 
but large enough for their purpose. In the mean time, 
Mrs. King had told Rose to weigh out the materials for 
the following recipes. 

^^^ No. 64 — Puff Paste. 

One lb. flour, three quarters of a lb. butter, one 
quarter of a lb. lard; salt, ice- water. 



78 BIX LITTLE C00K9. 

No. 65 — Plain Pie-Crust. — 
One lb. flour, a quarter of a lb. butter, a quarter of a 
lb. lard; or, one cup butter, one cup lard, one quart 
flour. 

" Every thing must be cold for paste," said Aant Jane, 
again, " so I have had both the lard and batter hardened 
oil the ice, as you eee. As we only want two kiiids of 
crust to-day, Koae may make one and Edith the other. 
Grace can be general helper for the present; by-and-bye 
we shall find Bomething for her to do." 

Each pastry-cook took her station at an end of the table, 
her materials being neatly ranged near her. A pitcher 
of ice-water stood between tliem. 

" The beginning is the same for both," said Aimt Jane. 
" Take the plate with the lard on in your left hand and 
cut off little bits of lard with a knife, throwing them into 
the flour as you go along. No matter if they are as 
small as peas. Now enough salt to make the lard as salt 
as butter; about half a teaapoonful, I think." 

" It seems to me there's salt in everything," remarked 
Grace. 

"Very few things are made without it," answered her 



AUNT JANETS COOKING CLASS. 79 

aunt; "nothing, I believe, that contains flour. (Now, 
girls, stir that lard thoroughly through the flour with a 
large knife.) We don't put it into preserves or canned 
fruits, and there are a few things, like blanc-mange, where 
it is not needed; but it must be added wherever there are 
eggs 6r flour, and is always present when any butter is 
used. Now, you pastry cooks, pour just enough water 
into the flour and lard to mix it into a loose paste that 
you can roll out with the rolling-pin. It must all be 
done with a knife, and as rapidly as possible. .Never 
touch paste with your hands until you begin to roll it." 

While this direction was being carried out, Mrs. King 
gave the girls some of the various notions about making 
pie-crust. 

" Many people — indeed some of the very best cooks — 
think it quite as well to cut the butter as well as the 
lard, into the flour, and some people chop them in with 
a chopping-knife; but I like my old-fashioned way best. 
Now, Rose, as yours is the puff-paste, you may use the 
slab first and the others may look on. Sift a dust of flour 
over your marble pie-board." 

" Oughtn't some of the flour to have been kept out for 
that, Mrs. King?" asked Edith. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 81 

they are not salt enough. Though I think, on the whole, 
I prefer our fashion. Now, Rose, you may touch your 
paste with your hands for the first time. Sift a dust of 
flour over the dough tliat you have spread with hatter, 
then roll it into the shape of a fat bolster. Now roll it 
out again thin with the rolling-pin, — not too thin, but 
rather more than half an inch thick, — then spread on the 
next portion of butter, sift flour over it, and roll it again, 
and so on until the butter is all in. Always roll from 
yourself; don't bring back the pin backwards over the 
same ground." 

"Why not. Aunty?" 

"Your paste will not flake as finely; and you must re- 
member that I am showing you the most elegant way of 
making it. Wlien you don't care to have it look so hand- 
some, or are making it for plain family pies, you can. 
shorten the operation a good deal. And after making it 
a very few times, you will not need to weigh or measure 
at all, except for puff-paste, and many cooks don't do even 
that. You learn to feel just how much lard and butter 
are needed in proportion to the flour you have, and much 
of the trouble is saved." 

" What kind of pies are we going to make, Aunt Jane? " 
6 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 83 

things tlieir strictly correct names, I suppose we must go 
on calling them pies, as the rest of the world do." 

" I thought ' tart ' meant ' rather sour,' said Eose." 

" So it does, in one of its English meanings; but the 
name as applied to a pie comes from the French. Your 
paste looks very nice, Edith; now set it in the ice-box 
while we consider what will be the nicest material to fill 
our pie-puddings with." 

" Then is pumpkin really the only pie. Aunt Jane? " 

"Oh, no! all meat pies are properly so named. I don't 
know when they left off calling them ^pasties' in old 
England. * Bring pasties of the doe,' you remember." 

" Yes," said Grace, " and when I used to hear Walter 
spouting Marmion, I thought it was spelt dougJiP 

"What a funny idea," said Aunt Jane. "It never oc- 
curred to me before. But now I will give you some 
recipes." 

"And are we to call all such pies, ^puddings,' after 
this, Aunt Jane ? " 

" Oh, no," said Aunt Jane, laughing; " I only thought 
I would tell you what you might hear them called at 
fashionable tables, so that you would not exhibit any 
surprise. No matter what is set before you, at houses 



AUNT jane's cooking 0LA6S. 85 

" Is it as good, Aunt Jane?" 

"Why, no, I can't say that it is, but it saves a vast 
deal of trouble, and if you are fortunate enough to get it 
quite fresh, there is not so much difference. Here is an- 
other good recipe." 

No. 68 — CocoANUT Custard Pie. ... - 

One lb. cocoanut, half a pound powdered sugar, 
one quart milk, six eggs well beaten together, half a tea- 
spoonful nutmeg, and two of vanilla or rose-water. Boil 
the milk, take it from the fire and stir it gradually into 
the eggs, then add sugar and seasoning, and when nearly 
cold, the cocoanut. This may be baked in paste or in a 
dish or cups by itself. 

No. 69 — ^Apple Puddino. 

Peel, quarter and core enough sour apples to make a 
pint of apple-sauce when stewed; they must be scantily 
covered with water; two oz. butter, four do. sugar, a 
little nutmeg and mace, the grated rind of a lemon, the 
beaten yolks of two eggs, one wineglassful milk. When 
all these have been well beaten together, beat the whites 
of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly. 
Bake in a paste-lined dish. 



So BIS LITTLE COOKS. 

No. 70 — CusTAED Pie. 

One even tablesi>oonful cora-etarch, two do. milt; pnt 
tlie rest of a quart of milk over boiling water, and when 
it is scalding (not boiling), etir in the starch earefnlly, 
with one-third of a tumblerful sugar and a few grains of 
salt. When slightly thickened, pour on it four well- 
beaten eggs (yolks and whites together). Bake in paste. 
The custard should be an inch deep. 

No, 71 — Okange Pudding. 

One-half pound sugar, a quarter of a ponnd butter, six 
eggs, two oranges. Grate the rind from the oranges and 
squeeze the juice, beat the butter to a cream and add the 
sugar to it little by little, throw in the yolks of the eggs 
aa you break them, beating them with the mixture, add 
the orange rind and jnice, and finally the whites of eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth ; these must be added slowly. Bake 
in paste. 

No. 72 — MiELBOEOTrGH Pudding. 
One pint sour apple-sance, the apples being stewed 
with only just enough water to keep them frgm burning, 
and just long enough to enable you to pass them through 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 87 

a colander; one-half lb. sugar, one-half do. butter, six 
well-beaten eggs, the juice of two lemons and the grated 
rind of one. Bake in puff paste. 

No. 73 — ^Lemon Pudding. 

Half a dozen tart apples, stew and strain through a 
colander, grated rind and juice of two large lemons or 
three small ones, one teacup cream, one-half do. butter, 
two cups sugar, yolks of six eggs. Bake one hour in 
puff paste. 

No. 74 — Lemon Pie. 

One large or two small lemons, rind and pulp; after 
the seeds are taken out, squeeze the pulp well in half a 
tumbler of water, and strain; yolks of four eggs well 
beaten, one tablespoon flour stirred with the egg, two 
do. melted butter, the whole well beaten together. Bake 
until done; then having beaten up the whites of four eggs 
with three tablespoonfals powdered sugar, spread it 
smoothly over the top and set it in the oven a few min- 
utes to brown. 

" Now let /as look over our recipes," said Mrs. King. 
" Lemon piadding is always good, and very simple; 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 89 

King examined into the condition of the fruit-closet. 
Here she found a quantity of ripe currants and raspber- 
ries, and though she declared it was a pity to spoil any- 
thing so nice by cooking it, still, to show the girls what 
could be done with them, she decided to try two recipes 
— the following an English one: 

No. 75 — CUKKANT AND EaSPBERRY TarT. 

Three half-pints currants, measured after being stripped 
from the stalks, one half-pint raspberries, three heaping 
tablespoonfuls crushed sugar; turn a small cup upside 
down in a deep pie dish, fill the dish with the mixture 
of currants, raspberries and sugar, cover with puff p^te, 
bake from half to three-quarters of an hour. To be 
eaten cold, with white sugar sifted over it. 

No. 76 — Currant Pie. 

Line a pie-dish with paste; in it put a layer of currants 
and a layer of coffee-sugar alternately until full ; dredge 
an even tablespoonful of flour over the top, cover with 
paste, and oake. All pies of this sort should have a slit 
cut in the center, and should be well pressed down around 
the edges. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 91 

round cakes of the size of the top of a tumbler were cut 
out. From half of these, smaller circles were cut from 
the inside with the top of a canister, and the ring thus 
formed was laid on the other, the under surface being 
first wetted. These when baked made little hollow puffs, 
which were filled with jam or jelly and presented quite 
an elegant appearance. 

The remains of the plain pie-crust, after two currant 
pies had been made fi'om it, was rolled out into short- 
cakes, with as much flour as they could be made to ab- 
sorb, and made a welcome addition to the tea-table. 

A high authority says that pastry, with the exception 
of mince-pies, should always be eaten the day it is 
baked; but as this is not convenient to most house-keep- 
ers, the expedient of slightly heating the paste just be- 
fore serving is often practised with good effect. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 93 

egg on toast to a sick friend in the evening. The kitchen 
fire was a mass of dead coals and smouldering ashes, and 
my only servant was out; even if I could have made up 
another fire I couldn't have had any clear coals for toast- 
ing, so I made a compromise by holding some water in 
a little tin cup over a gas-burner, and half-boiling an egg 
in that! Then I spread a slice of bread and butter — not 
toast! — and emptied the egg over it. My friend had the 
complaisance to eat it; but I know it must have been a 
dreadful mess." 

"What could you have done any better, Aunt Jane? " 
asked Grace. 

" I could have told the maid, before she went out, to 
leave me a proper fire, -which it is never safe to be with- 
out when there is sickness in the house; and 1 could have 
had on hand, what I afterwards bought, cm arrangement 
which fastens on the gas fixture and heats water quite as 
soon as the flame of a fire. To be sure, I could not have 
made toast with it, but I could at least have accomplished 
a decent poached egg." 

" Will you let us make mamma's gruel to-day, Aunt 
Jane?" 

" Certainly, and as it is not time for it yet, I'll give 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 95 

very clear, and flavor as above. An easily miide and 
nutritious food, which can be prepared in fifteen minutes. 

No. 79 — Mrs. Miller's Beef Tea. 

One lb. lean, iuicy beef, one pint cold water, two even 
teaspoonfuls salt. Cut the beef in bits about an inch 
square, cover it with the cold water, and let it stand one 
hour. Heat it slowly over the fire till it reaches the boil- 
ing point, then strain and season. 

" They seem to be very much afraid we shall take fat 
beef. Aunt Jane," said Mabel. 

"The least particle of fat spoils the tea," answered 
Aunt Jane, " and as a person is supposed to read over 
only the one recipe she is using, of course the direction 
must be repeated each time. But here is something that 
ought perhaps to have come before the beef tea; in old 
times it would certainly have done so." 

No. 80 — Indian Meal Gruel. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls white Indian meal into a thin 
paste with cold water; stir this into a quart of Tx>iling 
water, in which has been dissolved one teaspoonful salt ; lx)il 
it four hours, stir a teaspoonful wheat flour into a cupful 



ATJNT jane's cooking CLASS. 97 

• 

" In every recipe where meal of any kind is stirred into 
boiling milk," said Mrs. King, " it is better to pour the 
milk into the dish containing the meal, then turn the 
whole back into the saucepan. It is very difficult to keep 
porridge from getting lumpy if you stir in the flour while 
the milk is over the fire." 

No. 84 — Imitation of Asses' Milk. 

Put into a saucepan one half-pint milk and the same of 
water; while they are coming to a boil, beat up two eggs 
very light, yolks and whites together; pour the boiling 
mixture on the egg, but do not boil afterwards; sweeten 
with white sugar-candy. 

No. 85 — ^Panada. 

To one gill (or half a tumblerful) of wine, add one and 
a half tumblerfuls boiling water; flavor with nutmeg or 
lemon and sweeten slightly. Stir in grated bread or 
crackers to make it as thick as gruel, and let it boil up 
once. 

No. 86 — ^RicE Blanc Mange. 

Four tablespoonfuls ground rice and one saltspoon salt, 
wet with cold milk and stirred into one quart boiling 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 99 

to melt the surface next the mould; but tapioca is so 
sticky, this is not always sufficient." 

No. 88. — ^Akrowroot Gruel. 

One oz. arrowroot, mixed smooth in cold milk and 
stirred into one pint boiling milk, with one heaping tea- 
spoon sugar, and a pinch salt; stir until it is thick as 
cream, then cool a little, and serve. 

No. 89. — ^Arrowroot Jelly. 

Wet two heaping teaspoonfuls Bermuda arrowroot in a 
little cold water, then stir into one cup boiling water, in 
which two teaspoonfuls white sugar have been dissolved. 
Stir until clear, boiling steadily, then add the lemon. Wet 
a cup with cold water and pour in the jelly to stiffen. 
To be eaten cold with sugar and cream. The same re- 
cipe, made with milk instead of water and one additional 
teaspoonful of arrowroot, makes a delicious blanc-mange. 
It must be boiled until well thickened. 

"Don't they always give sick people chicken-broth, 
Aunt Jane?" asked Mabel. 

^' When the sick people begin to get well, they general- 



AUNT jane's cooking class. 103 

No. 92 — Beef Steak «aking cocoa, Aunt 

Broil one lb. of tender, jnicy beef 
son with salt and pepper; cut it i^^'^ ^ *^°^® °^ *® 
on a pint of boiKng water, steep racahout des Arabes,', 
press weU, and pour off the liquid*"^® ^^ preparation is 

rlile to give you any. 

No. 93 — ^Beef SAiio think delieions when 
Scrape or chop fine a Kttle raw? ^^ ^^ made-cocoa 
juicy piece; season with pepper and 
thin sKce of thinly buttered bread ; 
slice, and cut into three or four neat^^^ ** *^^ S^^^^' 
cording to the size of the loaf. \Bremer, when she 

drink, ' De nectar 
" Kaw beef ! " exclaimed Grace, " that 

I hope nobody will ever give me any! " 

" Most people find it exceedingly nice, C 
you had such a sandwich put into your hi s^^Hs, some- 
knowing what it was made of, I've no doub^ water; boil 
do the same. Kaw beef is very nourishing ^ilk (better 
digested; that is why it is recommended for sicSj ^ ^^^' 

No 94— Toast- Water. 

a little 

Toast two thin slices of bread thoroughly, but wiv j^^^^ 
burning them. It is a great mistake to think that to 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 103 

"Aren't there any recipes for making cocoa, Aunt 
Jane?" asked Grace. 

"Yes, plenty; but as they are sure to come on the 
packages of cocoa, or broma, or 'racahout des Arabes,'. 
or alkethrepta, or whatever other name the preparation is 
called by, I don't think it worth wlKle to give you any. 
There is one drink, though, I used to think delicious when 
I drank it fresh from the mill where it was made — cocoa 
shells. Did you ever see any? ' " 

"No; I never heard of them." 

" I've no doubt that they are to be had at the grocers, 
and I'll give you the directions. Miss Bremer, when she 
was in this country, used to call this drink, ' De nectar 
of de gods.' " 

No. 97 — Cocoa Shells. 

One quart boiling water, two oz. cocoa-shells, some- 
times called nibs, wet first with a little cold water; boil 
an hour and a half, strain, add one quart milk (better 
if you can have it part cream), let it heat nearly to boil- 
ing, then take off and serve. 

" Now, as the doctor said Mamma might eat a little 
something besides her gruel to-day, suppose we try how 



ATJNT jane's cooking CLASS. 105 

fill the little sugar-bowl about half full of sugar and the 
cream-jug the same; a small knife and fork, — ^yes, I think 
that's all. Have a plate of butter on the table ready for 
the toast, and a large bowl for boiling water to dip it in; 
we'll make the tea first. The old rule is, a spoonful apiece 
and one for the pot, but that allows for two cups, and 
mamma will want only one, so one teaspoonful, a little 
heaped, will be plenty." 

" Shall we make it in the little tea-pot. Aunt Jane? " 
" No, we must take Ehoda's steeper, for this is English 
breakfast-tea, and must be boiled a few minutes. Oolong, 
or any kind of green tea, should only be steeped, but you 
cannot get the fiiU flavor of this kind without boiling it. 
Scald the steamer first and tlirow out the water; now put 
in the tea and pour on about half a pint of boiling water 
from the tea kettle, then set it where it will simmer for 
five minutes. Now you may toast the bread, Mabel; you 
see Ehoda has cut a beautiful even slice. Grace, pour 
some boiling water into this frying pan, then break the 
egg very carefully into a saucer, and slide it off into the 
hot water." 

Grace did so, and then her Aunt told her that she 
must not try to poach eggs in water that was boiling 









I 



( ■ 



ii 



t- ( 



Ii 



ft ' ! I ■ r . 




1,1! ■m 



'li 






»■' 



^^ ^ 



' :i 



!■ 'ir 






106 



SIX LITTLE COOKS. 



liard, or they would fly in pieces. The water must be 
boiling to begin with, but afterwards merely simmer un- 
til the white was cooked so that no liquid part remained; 
then the yolk wotfld be sufficiently done. By the time 
this was done, Mabel's toast had been dipped and but- 
tered and laid on the plate; the egg was then carefully 
lifted off with a skimmer and placed upon it, covered 
with a large bowl, the tea poured off the leaves into the 
little tea-pot, a small pitcher of hot water added in case 
it should be too strong, and then Grace, being the taller, 
started off with the waiter, Mabel going along for com- 
pany. 

" Whatever else you do, girls," said Aunt Jane, as they 
were on the way, '^don^t make tea with water that doesn't 
boil! There is more wretched stuff drunk under the 
name of tea, from this cause, than from any other. Many 
a girl I have had say to me, 'Why, it has boiled!' when 
I saw from the looks of the tea that it hadn't been made 
with boiling water. The idea that it must actually be 
boiling hard at the moment it touches the leaves, is al- 
most impossible to get into their heads." 

At the door of the sick room Mabel took off the bowl 
that had covered the toast and egg, and put it on a table 



I ■[' 



* 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 107 

in the hall, and the little girls were rewarded by a smile 
from their mother, and by hearing her remark that noth- 
ing had tasted quite so good to her since she had been 
sick as this little meal of her daughters' preparation. 



\ 



I 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 109 

that long speech; do sit down and rest a few minutes. If 
your papa says yes, we'll go to the pic-nic with pleasure, 
and as for having a cooking-party at Mrs. Lane's, you 
must ask Aunt Jane about that.'^ 

"Oh, I know Aunt Jane will say 'yes,' she's such a 
dear, good, kind, first-rate Aunty 1 Won't you. Aunt 
Jane?" { 

"After all that praise, I'm afraid I might lose my 
reputation for amiability if I said 'no,' " said Mrs. King, 
laughing; " but luckily, I don't want to say no. I think 
the notion is capital, and I am for accepting at pnce." 

" Oh, you best of aunts! " exclaimed Grace, embracing 
her aunt rapturously. " I'll run and tell Mrs. Lane now 
— may I, mamma?". 

" I think Mrs. Lane will be able to wait until after break- 
fast," answered Mrs. Vernon, " and you must remember 
that you haven't consulted your father yet." 

" Oh, I know beforehand what KeHl say; ' Just as your 
mother pleases.' I haven't asked papa's consent to any 
thing a thousand times in my life not to know that by 
this time. I hope he'll come down soon, though, so I 
can go through the motions." 

As Grace had foretold, her father made no objections, 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. Ill 



No. 99 — French Cake. 

One pound sugar, one-half do. butter, one do. currants, 
dredged with flour, three cups flour, four eggs; spice to 
taste, half a teaspoonful soda dissolved in three tablespoon- 
fuls milk. 

# 

No. 100 — Loaf Cake. 

Two cups risen dough taken from bread after its second 
rising. Have ready two cups sugar, one do. butter, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful soda, two tablespoonfuls milk or 
cream, half a pound seeded raisins, one teaspoonful cloves, 
half as much grated nutmeg. 



I 



"In old times it used to be called baking when things 
were cooked in an oven, and roasting when they were 
placed before the open flre on a spit, or what is called a 
'Dutch oven' — a tin arrangement with only the side 
toward the fire open, so that the whole heat, direct and 
reflected, might be concentrated on the meat; but in these J 

days when there are very few open fires, every thing is ; 

baked, and it is generally said that meat is roasted, and \ 

all other things baked, in the oven. Here are some cake 
recipes." . 



i 



i: 



112 61X LITTLE COOKS, 

Ko. 101 — Fkuit Gingeebeead. 
TVo lbs. flour, three-quarters do. butter, one d( 
eoffee-Btig.ir, one do. raisins, one do, currants, two cup 
molasses, one-half do. sour cream (or milk, if you cannc 
get cream), six eggs beaten eeparately, one heaping tea 
poonful fct.da, two tablespoonfiila ginger, one teaspoonfu 
cinnamon and one of cloves. Cream the butter and sugai 
warm the molasses a little and add to them; next th 
beaten yolks, then the the milk and spice, soda, flour aw 
whites, well beaten ; last, the fruit, which must be dredgei 
with flour. Beat all together well, the last thing befor 
baking. Bake in two loaves, in a moderate oven, Thi 
cake will keep a long time. 

Ko. 102 — Plaik- Gingekbeeah. 

One cup butter, one' -do. sugar, one do. molasses, om 
do, sour milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful soda, one of cin 
namon, and one tablespopnftii ginger, nearly five cups oJ 
flour. Be careful not to get it too hard ; it should be abou 
as thick as cup-cake batter, 

No. 103 — Stokqe GiNGEEBEEAn, WnHoijT Eggs. 
Three cups flour, one of molasses, one of flugar, one oi 






AUNT JANK's cooking CLASS. 113 

milk (sour Is best), one heaping tablespoonfal butter, two 
teaspoons saleratus (not soda), two do. ginger, one do. cin- 
namon. Mix the molasses, sugar, butter and spice to- 
gether; warm them a little and beat until they are very 
light in color; then add the milk, the saleratus, and lastly, 
the flour. Beat hard five minutes and bake in shallow 
pans, or, if preferred, in small cake-tins. 

No. 104 — Tea-Biscufp. 

One quart flour, two heaping tablespoonfuls lard, two 
cups milk (new milk, if you can get it), one teaspoonful 
soda and two of cream tartar, one saltspoon salt. Sift 
the cream tartar into the flour, then put in the salt, then 
the lard, rubbed lightly through the flour with the hands, 
next the soda, dissolved in a little of the milk, then, as 
rapidly as possible, the rest of the milk. Knead all to- 
gether as fast as you can, roll out lightly and cut into 
cakes at least half an inch thick. Bake in a quick oven. 

" Now, I believe I have given you all the receipts we 

> 

shall need," said Mrs. King, " besides a good many others. 
Tou know we have a pretty large party to provide for; 
eight Tfrom here, three from Mrs. Lane's, and five from 
8 



114 SIX LITTLE COOES. 

Aunt CarroH'B — sixteen hungry people! Here is our b 
of fare, tlist she and I made out together. 

"Veal loaf, ham-eandwiches, potato salad, butten 
biscuit, short-cakes, black cap and hncklebeny pies, lo 
cake, soft gingerbread, iced tea and coffee for the grov 
folks." 

"And what shall we have to drink, Aunt Jane?" 
" Oh, I think little folks can get on very well with ic 
water. However, there is a very nice preparation calli 
lemon sugar, that makes a pleasant drink when mist 
with water, and we'll take along a bottle of that. I a 
vised Mrs. Lane against lemonade, it is bo troubleson 
and hard to manage." 

" Are we going to make every thing to-morrow ?" 
"Mrs. Lane will have the veal and pork weighed ai 
cliopped up at tlie buteher's, and the ham boiled to-dj 
for the sandwiches, and as her cook is going to bakebrei 
to-morrow, we shall have some light dough ready for tl 
loaf-cake; everj' thing else I think we can prepare on 
selves." 

The next morning saw a busy scene at Mrs, Lane' 
Six clean-aproned little girls bustled about the kitche 
like peas on a hot shovel, somebody said ; • Ellen, the coo 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 115 

had to be on hand to give out materials and utensils. Mrs. 

Lane said she could not keep out of the kitchen, it was so 

delightful to watch them, and Aunt Jane sat by a corner 

of the table up against the wall, in the character of the ! 

Genius of the place, inspiring every one with the power i 

suited to the pccasion. 

" The dough will be ready for your loaf-cake very soon, 
Edith; you must be ready for it. Take your recipe and • 

put the materials together just as we always do, and Mabel 
and Amy will stone the raisins." 

" Shall we weigh them first, Aunt Jane?" ' 

" No, raisins musn't be weighed until after the seeds 
are taken out Rose, you may set about the veal loaf; , 

the meat is all ready, mixed by the butcher; Ellen will "; 

give you some bread to crumb up, and you can see by 
your recipe what else you will want." 

" I^m waiting patiently for my turn, Aunt Jane," said 
Grace. 

" Yes, I see. Tou may have either the soft ginger- 
bread or the pies for your share. Which will you take? " 

"Oh, the pies, if I may make them all alone 1 May T 
go into the cellar and do it all by myself?" 

" Yes, if you want to," said Mrs. King. " But wouldn't 
you mther have a little oversight and advice? " • , 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 117 

cupsof flour rather large, and those of butter and lard 
rather small." 

Grace went oft' in high glee, and Mrs. King turned to 
Jessie. 

" Here is a good little girl who can chop the ham for the 
sandwiches if Ellen will cut some slices for hen Of 
course we can't make them before to-morrow morning, 
but the ham can be chopped and shut up tight in a cold 
place, and it will be quite as good. The bread that is just 
going in to bake will be exactly right to cut up by that 
time." 

" I never heard before of chopping ham that was to go 
in sandwiches," observed Ellen; " I always saw the slices 
just put in whole." 

" And did yon ever see any one try to bite through a 
good thick piece of ham and two slices of bread, Ellen?" 
said Mrs. King. " I have, and dreadful work they made 
of it. Some people are so particular that they grate the 
ham, but I think it is just as good chopped up into rather 
small pieces; not too fine, Jessie, but about a quarter of 
a mouthful." 

When Mabel and Amy had finished stoning the raisins, 
Mrs. Kipg set one of them to making the salad dressing, 



I 



Eose had finiBhed tlie veal loaf and packed 
ready to go into the oven when Ellen's I 
irae out, she set abont trying a new recipe. 

No. 107 — Gicakdma'b Shoet-Cake. 

lund sifted flour, dried in the oven for a few 
not browned, a quarter of a pound bntl 

tablespoonl'ul lard, a salt- spoonful salt, a \ 

dissolved in just enough vinegar to cov 
worked in. Put together with ice-water, 

alf an inch tliick. Cut into squares, prick 

i bake light brown. 

can any one tell how much a pinch in, j 
sked Eose. " Is it about as much as when 
leh of anybody's arm ? " 
10," said her aunt, laughing, "a pinch is 
much," showing her by taking up some sod 
r finger and thumb. "A pinch is a pinch, t 
ook gets to feel those things after a w 
sort of instinct about it." 
the salad dressing is done, aunty," said M 
hall I do with it?" 



120 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

"Ask Ellen for a funnel, and we'll pour it into this bot- 
tle and cork it tightly. We musn't forget to take along 
a small bottle of vinegar, too, for some people, especially 
children, don't like so large a proportion of oil." 

" May I make the biscuit now? " asked Edith, when 
her loat-cake was kneaded into loaves and set to rise in 
the pan. 

" Better wait until the bread comes out. The ginger- 
bread is in already, and we must leave a place for Grace's 
pies. Your biscuits will contain soda, you know, and so 
musn't stand a moment after they are mixed before they 
go into the oven; I wonder what keeps Grace so long at 
her pies; it seems as if they ought to be ready by this 
time." 

It was not long before Grace came in, a pie carefully 
balanced on the palm of each hand. A glance at their 
extremely ornate appearance explained the delay. In the 
middle of one she had made not a bad imitation of a rose, 
whose paste leaves stood out quite naturally; around this 
was a series of rings laid over one another like shingles, 
producing a very pretty effect, and round the edge was a 
border made of long strips interlaced so as to make a sort 
of braid. The other was bordered with a series of little 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 121 

buttons, touching one another; inside of this was a circle 
of leaves quite neatly made, with a slender vine con- 
necting the ends, and in the center in fat letters and fig- 
ures was the date, "July 4, 1876." 

"Why, Grace, what a pie-ist you are! " exclaimed her 
brother Kob, who had stolen in to take a peep at the do- 
ings of the busy bees. "You're the Great Champion 
American Ornamental Pie Constructor, and no mistake. 
That pie's too fine to eat; let's send it to the Centen- 
nial." 

" You may send your piece there if you like, Kob," 
said his aunt, " but the rest of us would prefer to eat ours 
ourselves. Now, Edith, Ellen says it is safe for you to 
make your biscuit, and when that comes out, our work 
will be done for to-day." 

A new idea came into Aunt Jane's head, however, and 
she whispered privately to Edith, " I'm coming over by- 
and-by to contrive a little surprise for the rest of them. 
Do you have sixteen nice large eggs ready after dinner 
and some boiling water." 

So in the afternoon she slipped over alone, and telling 
Mrs. Lane she wanted to have a private conference with 
Edith, proceeded to the kitchen. First she gave her this 
recipe: 



I 



j 



AUNT jane's cooking 0LAS3. 123 

A teaspoonfiil each of black pepper and dry mustard, 
with two of salt, would, she thought, be enough. When 
the whites were refilled and carefully placed on their ends 
in a dish, touching each other closely that they might 
not lose shape, it was found that there was still a consid- 
erable quantity of the seasoned yolk left. 

" We'll put that into the salad-dressing," said Aunt 
Jane. "It can't hurt it, and it may make it a little 
nicer. I shall be in here again the first thing to-morrow 
morning." 

There was not much left to be done the next morning. 
Aunt Jane went in very early to Mrs. Lane's to superin- } 

tend the making of the sandwiches.' 

" They rMjbst be cut thin, and they must be small," 
said she to Edith, " if you want them to be good. Those 
dreadful lumps of thick bread with great mats of ham be- 
tween that some poople mistake for sandwiches, are fit 
only for savages, and ours are to be eaten by civilized 
beings." 

Then she showed Edith how to butter the bread, so 
that the slices should exactly fit, one on the other; the 
chopped ham was scattered thickly over the lower one, a 
little mustard wet up with vinegar was sprinkled lightly 



AUNT JANE'& cooking CLASS. 125 

vious tilings that are forgotten, every one thinking them 
a matter of course. Now, we have reduced gipsying to 
such a system that our picnics are nearly as well served 
as our dinner-tables." 

It is pleasant to be able to say that the good things 
which our young friends had expended so much labor 
upon proved very satisfactory. The veal loaf was especi- 
ally liked, while Grace's ornamented pies and Edith's 
pretty stuffed eggs were much admired by the young peo- 
ple. There was only one thing that would have pleased 
them better; they would have liked to do some of the 
cooking on the spot. 

" That's all very well for young ladies and gentlemen 
who want to make a frolic of it," said Aunt Jane, " but 
we old folks like to rest when we get out into the woods; 
we don't want to work. If I have to do that, I'd 
rather it should be in my own comfortable kitchen." 

" I can tell you we're very thankful to have such a 
pleasant excursion as this, any way you like to manage 
it, Aunt Jane," said Rose, speaking for the rest; and 
they all agreed with her. 



• 1 < 



1l 






AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 129 

cake in the house," said Mrs. Yemon, after her friends 
were gone; " but to-day happened to be one of the times." 

"Why can't we make some this afternoon, mamma?" 
inquired Grace, whose taste for cooking seemed to grow 
with exercise, instead of wearing oflf as her mother had 
feared it would, — " though I don't believe any one missed 
the cake at all, for they all seemed to enjoy their lunch 
very much." 

" I think your idea is a good one, Gracie," said Mrs. |j 

King, " and I have some nice recipes that we haven't 
tried yet; so if mamma has no objection, we'll do as much* 
as we have time for. What are you going to have for t 

dessert?" 1 

if 

" I haven't the slightest idea," said Mrs. Yernon, " I 
suppose Khoda will make a pudding of some sort." 

" Well, if we happen to think of anything nice, we'll 
make it, and Ehoda won't object to having some of her 
work done beforehand. Come, girls, on with your aprons 
again, that is, if you want to, and we'll see what we can 
do." 

The little girls had become such enthusiasts in the mat- 
ter of cooking, that this invitation was never given in 

vain, for Aunt Jane was a charming companion, and qn- 
9 



130 BIX LITTLE COOKS. 

livened the hours passed in the kitchen with Boch pleasant 
conversation that they wanted no better amusement 

"I wish we could mate some blane-mange," said 
Mabel. " I like that better than anything else." 

" It is too late to have that to-daj," replied Aimt Jane, 
"because it wouldn't have tinie to get hard. "We can 
make some for to-morrow's dessert, but even then we 
must use farina or corn-stareh, because gelatine needs ta 
Boak for a long time. Most people prefer these because 
there is more body to them; but I will give you some 
recipes for both kinds." 

TSo. 109 — Blanc-Mange. 

One quart milk, one oz. Cooper's gelatine or isinglass, 
two teaspoonfals vanilla, three-q^uarters of a cup sugar. 
Keep out one cupful of the milk, and soak the gelatine 
in it for not less than an hour; scald the rest of the milk, 
and pour into it, afterward heatipg (not boiling), all to- 
gether until the gelatine is perfectly dissolved. Stir fre- 
quently, then add the sugar and pour into moulds wet 
with cold water. To be eaten with cream, boiled custard, 
or any kind of preserves or canned fruit. 

" It doesn't tell what kind of sugar you must take,'' 
remarked Mabel. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 131 j 

I 

*^ I use granulated sugar for almost all kinds of cook- 
ing," replied Aunt Jane. " It is so easy to manage. For 
hard pudding-sauce, or for sifting over the top of pies 
or cake, you should have powdered; and for ginger- 
bread or any kind of cake or pudding made with molasses, 
coffee sugar is nicest, unless brown is expressly men- 
tioned. Here are some more receipts for you." f 

* 

No. 110 — ^Farina Blanc-Mange. . . 

One quart new milk, two ounces farina, half a salt- 
spoon salt. Put the milk over boiling water, keeping 
out a little to mix with the farina. When the hot milS: 
has a film over it, add the farina and salt, and stir until 
it forms quite a thick batter; then pour into moulds wet 
with cold water. 

No. Ill — Chocolate Meringue. 

Dissolve three tablespoonfuls corn-starch in two table- 
spoonfuls milk; break up two ounces of sweetened choco- 
late in a tin basin over boiling water, and to it add 
gradually the rest of a pint of milk; stir until perfectly 
smooth, and when it is scalding, pour in the starch and 
stir till it thickens; then add the yolks of three eggs 
beaten with two large tablespoonfuls sugar, and stir until 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 133 

No. 114 — Tapioca Blanc-Mange. 

Soak one-half pound tapioca in a cup of cold water 
for four hours. Heat one pint rich milk and stir the 
tapioca into it. When it is quite dissolved, add three- 
quarters of a cup sugar and a pinch of salt. Boil slowly 
fifteen minutes, stirring all the time; take from tlie fire 
and beat till nearly cold, then add two teaspoonfuls of 

vanilla or bitter almonds, and pour into a mould dipped 
in cold water. 

. No. 116 — Chocolate Cream. 



Mix together according to previous directions two 
ounces chocolate, three eggs, a quarter of a pound sugar 
and a pint of milk. Stir over boiling water until smooth 
and creamy. Toast slices of any light, common cake, and 
pour the hot cream over them. 

"We'll take the corn-starch blanc-mange for to-mor- 
row," said Aunt Jane, "but we must find something for 
to-day's dessert. What shall it be ?" 

" Tip-top pudding," said Grace; " such as Ehoda 
makes." 

"Can't we have our Queen of Puddings, mamma?" 
said Amy. 



previously soakt 
in a buttered pu 
front of the ove: 
a meringue ma 
cup of sugar. 
Bake only to 

_ ] 
One qnart mi 
beaten separatel 
of white sugar, ; 
soda. Soak the 
well beaten, the: 
the whites. Ea 
or raisins mates 

„-No. 11 

Four eggs, tl 

sugar, one teaap 

some stale breat 

" I should lib 

"IfKhodaha 

and see. Oh, v 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 137 

" How do you boil puddings, Aunt Jane?" 

" If they are liquid you must boil them in a tin foim ; 
but for any kind of dough or paste puddings a square of 
heavy unbleached shirting is the best thing that ever was 
contrived. It must first be wrung out of boiling water, 
then well floured on the inside, then the edges gathered 
together and tied with a strong string, leaving a little 
room for the pudding or dumplings to ' swell ' in." 

" I wish we could make a dumpling," said Grace. 
" We haven't had one in a long time." 

"We will, the first time we come in to cook in the 
morning, l^ot to-morrow, because, we shall have Mabel's 
blanc-mange for dessert. How are you getting on, Ma- 
bel?" 

" Pretty well, I think. Is'nt it thick enough now? " 

" Yes, I think it is. Don't forget to wet the inside of 
your moulds with cold water." 

While the bread and butter was soaking in custard, the 
other girls had been preparing the materials for some 
light cakes, for which Mrs. Bang had given them the 
recipes. 

No. 120 — ^Emily's Cake. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, three eggs, half a 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. IS 

scales and sugar into the other," said Grace. "Whi 
was that for?" 

" Oh, that's old-fashioned sponge-cake. Hardly an 
one makes it eo now, but it can't te denied that it is tl 
jnoBt elegant and exact way, and can TWt fail if yoi 
materials are good and your oven just right. You ma 
as well write it down." 

Ko. 123 — Ne Plus Ultra Sponqe Caxe. 

Ten eggs, their weight in flour, half their weight i 
sugar, juice and rind of a lemon. 

"Why is tliat any better than weighing things by tl 
pound, Aunt Jane? " 

"On account of the difference in the size of eggs. I 
they happen to be small, your cake may be rather plair 
if they are uncommonly large it will be stiff and effc/j 
Using them as a measure of weight keeps every thing i 
its due proportion." 

" I should like to try it some time, jnst for fun," sai 
Grace. 

" So you shall. Of course the eggs are beaten separate); 
and very light; the sugar goes with the yolks after the 
are thoroughly beaten, and is beaten again with then 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 141 

" You hare to ^ake the sauce first, and then keep it f 

hot over the steam of the tea-kettle," said Ehoda, " 'cause 
the pudding must be served the minute it's done." v 

" Now for the Jenny Linds," said Grace. 



I 



No. 126 — Jenny Linds. 

One tumblerful milk and the same of flour, half a tea- j 

spoonful salt and one egg. When the egg is well beaten 
stir in half the milk, then salt and flour, and beat all to- 
gether; then add the rest of the milk. Bake in patty- f 

pans and serve with 

No. 127 — Jelly Sauce. 

Half a cup currant jelly, two tablespoonfuls melted 
butter, the juice and half the grated peel of a lemon, 
half a teaspoonful nutmeg, one tablespoonful powdered 
sugar, two glasses wine. Beat the jelly to a smooth bat- 
ter, then add gradually the butter, lemon and nutmeg; 
beat hard, then add sugar, and lastly wine. Keep warm, 
and also well covered, to prevent the escape of the flavor. 

" That's very rich sauce," observed Amy. 

"Yes, too rich for frequent use. When we make 
dumplings I'll give you . the receipts lor some plainer 
ones." 



/ 



" Oh, no, I don't believe i 
It sounds excellent." 

"Then there's aparticnlai 
tnow of, and that I don't 1 
receipt for. And then you 
old-fashioned pound cake." 

" Oh, we're always havin] 
it! Please let us put that 
give us Bometbing new." 

" So be it, then, but I'll 
think of it. That won't hn 

No. 128—1 
One pound engar, one ( 
butter. Many people use ^ 
of butter, and some add a 
menselyy and bake with a 
is once set in the oven, o: 
heavy. 

No. 129— Com 

One qnart flour and oi 

t<^ether; stir in six e^= bea 

of a Cttp softened butter. ' 



i 



AXJNT jane's cooking CLASS. 145 

" It will all sink to the bottom of the cake if it isn't," 
replied Mrs. Bang. "And even when it is carefully 
dredged, it will sometimes have a strong inclination to 
fall, especially if the batter is at all too thin, or the oven 
too slow. It requires care and judgment to bake fruit cake 
well. One great thing is to keep the heat perfectly even. 
Here is one you can try next winter, but I should advise 
you to make only half the receipt for the first time." 

" Oh, I know what that means," said Grace, tossing her 
head. " You think we're going to spoil it." 

" I think it is just as well to be careful, and that it 
would be a pity to waste those good nuts. But here's the 
recipe." 

No. 132— Nut-Cake. 

Two cups sugar, one of butter, three of flour, one of 
cold water, four eggs, one teaspoonful soda and two of 
cream tartar, two cupfuls hickory nut kernels carefiilly 
picked out, without any teeth-breaking scraps of shell left 
among them. 

" Why don't some of these receipts say baking-powder? " 
asked Mabel. " Ehoda always keeps it in the kitchen." 
10 



ATJNT jane's cooking CLASS. . 147 

to simple cooking. But I don't tliink you've had my 
favorite muffins yet." 

No. 134 — Indian-Meal Muffins. 

Two cups corn-meal, one of flour, two and a half of 
milk, three eggs, one tablespoonful lard, two of white 
sugar, one teaspoonful soda, two of cream tartar, one of 
salt. Beat whites and yolks separately, melt the lard, sift 
soda and cream tartar together with the flour (which must 
be added last of all,) and then beat with all your might. 
Bake in small patty-pans. 

No. 135 — Gbaham Biscuit. 

Three cups Graham flour, one of white flour, three of 
milk, one tablespoonftd lard, one well heaped of white 
sugar, one salt-spoon salt, one teaspoonful soda and two 
of cream tartar. Mix as for soda buscuit (No. 104). 

" We might have some Sally Lunns, Mamma," said 
Amy. " They're good. " 

" Yes, but really Sally Lunns are made with yeast, and 
the modem imitations are not quite the Bame thing. 
Our ' company tea-cake' (No. 129) is not very diflferent; 
but 111 give you the recipe." 



T LuNNa. 

;ap milk, half a cup \. 

gga, one teaspoonful & 
much soda. Eggs to 
lelted; cream tartar eif 
ed in hot water, as net 



int warm water, one wi 
salt. Beat the e^ w 
,ter, add the salt, half i 
iroughly, then stir in 1 
MiB verv hot, butter the 
3ven. To hare these 
• being heated and b 
ripping-pan on the top 
1 in from a pitcher, tl 
>oling. Made with m 
ailed Graham puffs. 

lur, Aunt Jane!" 

ito general use in tl 

mglit fine flour extrem* 



t 



ATTNT jane's COOKING CLASS. 149 

nnwholesome for everybody, and would have been glad to 
abolish it entirely if he could. It is not quite such a fa- 
vorite now as it was once, but still everyone allows that it 
is more wholesome than fine flour, and it makes a pleas- 
ant variety for our table. Brown bread is made with 
yeast, like white." 

" Have you decided yet what we shaU have for tea, 
Aunt Jane?" 

"We'll have huckleberry cake, certainly; and I was 
going to have tea-cake, but I think some biscuit and waf- 
fles will be best. Tou all want to get through in time to 
l)e dressed for tea, so we'll contrive not to have you too 
late in the kitchen. The biscuits may be put in to bake 
an hour beforehand, as it will not hurt them to stand 
half an hour if they are kept in a warm place; and, before 
you make them, you may "mix the batter for the huckle- 
berry cake, all but the soda, which Ehoda will add the last 
thing, and the same with the waffles, which, of course, 
she will have to bake. Some time when we have only 
our own family, I should like to have you learn to finish 
them entirely." 

" We have no recipes for waffles, aunty." 

" Tou shall have, if you will get out your note-books. 



ACST JAXE S COOKIXO CLASS, l.>l 

Xo. 140 — Bakby's Wafflics, 
Odc and a half lbs, of flour, one pint or loss of ImiiKhI 
rice, two "and a half pints of sweot, rich initk, oim loa- 
spoonful of 'salt, four eggs. Piit tlio rico in a linu'-ijimrf. 
bowl, separating tbe eggs, putting the yolks witli tho rico; 
add the salt, flour, and two pints of tlio milk, lieatiiij; vory 
thoroughly, then the remaining half pint of milk; limit 
the whites of the eggs to a atitf froth, wld tlioni U* tlm 
batter, and beat well together. When thorouj^hly btuiloii, 
make the batter still lighter by lifting and pouring it 
■with a tin cup for five minutes. 

"Which of these shall we try, aunty!" 

"The second, I think, although I should pntfcr (;itli(;r 
of the others, but we want something very simjile, that 
will not detain you late in the kitclieri. Wo hiiveri'l; 
thought of any sweet-cake yet." 

" Let's have some with fruit in," saM Mal«;l, " \hu:iih'.<: 
I like to stone the raisins," 

"Here iaa very nice recAi>c for that, and one that oii;(Iit 
to ■ made to-day, becau:^ it wouldn't cnt in niw! rijccit 
if we put it off till to-morrow. Tlnfn in Un: morning wii 
can make e^jme jumbles bo ax to ttavea littlt: vari<;ty; ]if,- 
sides which, some j>eop]e are afraid of fruit i-alcu," 



153 SIX LITTLE COOES. 

No. 141 — Aurora Cake. 
Eleven oz. butter, one and a half pints sugar, two and 
a half pints flour, half a pint milk, one gill mixed wine 
and brandy, one and a half lbs. stoned raisins, a quarter 
of a teaspoonful baking powder sifted with the flour, five 
eggs. Cream the butter, add the sugar and yolks and 
beat until very light; stir in the milk, add alternately the 
whites beaten to a dry froth, and the flour, then the wine, 
and lastly the fruit ; bake in deep pans, buttered, and lined 
with paper. 

" There's some business for you, Mabel ; it will take you 
a long time to find all the seeds in a pound and a half of 
raisins. In the mean time, the rest of us will be getting 
the other ingredients ready." 

By tea-time the next evening, three nicely dressed chil- 
dren were ready to take their places at the table; and 
when the visitors learned that the fresh tea-biscuit, the 
waffles and huckleberry cake, the rich, delicate jumbles 
and fine fruit cake, were the work of those little hands, 
they could scarcely believe their ears. 

" But we had to have help with the baking, you know," 
said Grace, who was too honest to take more praise than 
she deserved. " Tou musn't give us credit for that," 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 153 

"That will all come in time," answered Mrs. Brown, 
" and I should be very proud if my little girls could make 
as nice things as those, even if somebody else did bake 
them." 



I 

r 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 155 

" Tliat will be the next thing to eating them," said 
Aunt Jane. " I know a good many ladies who really en- 
joy sitting down and poring over a cookery book, 
though they haven't the least intention of making the 
things. I shall take a great deal of pleasure in thinking 
of the nice desserts and tea-dishes and lunches you make." 

" Who'S going to cook to-day. Aunt Jane?" 

" Only the older girls. Boiled dough of all sorts be- 
longs to the department of pastry, and that, you know, 
the little ones haven't begun upon yet. So if you don't 
mind the rain, you may go for Kose and E/lith.' 

" Papa says that people who are afraid of rain must be 
made of either sugar or salt, and think they are going to 
melt. So as I seem to be composed of pretty solid flesh, 
I think I'll go." 

It didn't take long to collect the party, who had been 
groaning a little over being obliged to spend the day in- 
doors, and were glad of something to do. 

Aunt Jane received them in the parlor, where they 
were to write their recipes. She had in her hand a very 
old-looking brown book, which when opened showed 
pages yellow with age, covered with fine manuscript in 
faded ink. 



ATTNT jane's COOKING CLASS. 157 

eggs very light; boil the milk and then add to it half the 
eggs (beaten together) and boil the mixture till it becomes 
a curd, stirring frequently with a knife; then mix in the 
bread, and afterward stir all together, including the cur- 
rants, into the butter and sugar; then add the remaining 
half of the egg, and by degrees the liquor and spice. 
Line patty-pans or pie dishes with puff paste, fill with the 
mixture, sprinkling the reserved currants over the top; 
then bake. 

"What an elaborate receipt! " exclaimed Hose. 

" Not more so than some we have made. It is because 
the directions are so very full that it seems long. It is 
an old English recipe, and a real English housekeeper nev- 
er cares how much time she spends on any thing that is 
to be very nice. Here we like to get through everything 
as fast as possible, and use our time for something else." 

'' I have often read about cheese-cakes in English sto- 
ries," said Edith, " such as Miss Edgeworth's and Mrs. 
Barbauld's, and the children always seemed to think them 
a great treat." 

" Here is another recipe, which seems very much like 
our modern 'floating island.' " 






loo SIXLITTLECOOKS. 

No. 143 — A Good Ckeam. 
To one quart of boiled milk add the yolka of six egg 
well beaten up with four tablespoonfuls white sugar; (ii 
not eweet enough for your taste you can add more sng 
ar;) let the milk stand a tew minutes before you put ii 
the eggs. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth am 
then stir them in the hot cream ; they will rise to the toj 
and then may be taken off and drained, and after you 
cream is dished you can put the froth on the top. Toi 
boil whatever flavor you choose in the milk, and call you 
cream after the flavor. 

" That's simple enough, any way," said Eose. 

"Tea, it's very simple, but I think our taste now-a 
days requires that the eggs and milk should te thietene< 
together by a little boiling. But here's something I knov 
you never saw." 

Kg. 144 — GlNOEEBEEAD-NuTS. 

Tyo pounds flour, one of butter, half a pound brow] 
sugar, one quart sugar-house molasses, two ounces gingei 
one teaspoonful allspice, one of cinnamon, and the sami 
of cloves. Cut up the butter in the flour, crash the snga 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 169 

fine with the rolling pin, mix it with the flour, and after- 
ward add the spice and molasses. Flour your pie-board 
and take the dough, a large handful at a time, and knead 
it in separate cakes; then knead all very hard together 
for a long time. Cut the lump in halves, roll it out in 
two even sheets about half an inch thick, and cut in little 
cakes the size of a cent. Bake on buttered tins in a very- 
moderate oven, as gingerbread is more apt to scorch than 
any other cake. 

" Why, what mites of cakes, Mrs. King," said Edith. 
" Hardly larger than a thimble." 

" Oh, they didn't have nickel cents in those days," 
replied Mrs. King. " This means an old-fashioned cop- 
per cent, more like the top of this little canister in size. 
I remember the gingerbread-nuts perfectly, and very 
good they were; but it required a world of patience to 
make them. Another way, and one I liked better, was to 
roll them into little balls like marbles. Here is a recipe 
that I used to think very good. I don't know how I 
should like it now." * 

. __ No. 145 — Honey Cake. 

Four cups flour, four eggs, two cups honey, one tea- 
spoonful pearlash, nutmeg or cinnamon to taste. 



IbO SIX LITTLE COOK 

" What is pearlash, Aunt Jaoe? " 

" A kind of alkali formerly used in 
afterward supplanted bj aaleratns, 
Pearlash is a refined preparation of po 
from wood ashes." 

"Then it must be what they mal 
Grace. 

"Yes, the same thing. Lye is ar 
form. From this dear old receipt-boi 
direction for making soap, if you li 
soft." 

" Thank you, ray dear aunt, we w< 
long as we can buy it ready-made, 
ever cast away on a desert island an 
wash with, we may be glad to liave th' 

" Now it is time to tliink of our dm 
Jane. 

No. 146— Ckdst for Ddu 

Two cups milk, one heaping tablespi 
same of butter, one teaspoonful soda 
tartar, one salt-spoon salt, flour enouf 
dough. Some people prefer it made ■« 



J«^^^-r^T^-r^^^.«« 1^1 '• 



AUKT jane's cooking CLASS. 161 

en eggs to a pound of flour, mixed with water enough 
to make a dough; the other ingredients the same. 

No. 147 — Suet Paste. 

Eub well with half a pound finely chopped beef suet, 
three-quarters of a poimd flour, and one ealtspoon salt; 
make into a paste with cold water, work it well, beat it 
with the rolling-pin, and roll it out two or tlu*ee times. 
This paste answers for any kind of boiled fruit pudding. 

No. 148 — Potato Paste. 

Mash one pound boiled potatoes, while still warm, and 
rub into them with the hands three-quarters of a pound 
flour and half a teaspoonful salt; make it into a stiff 
paste with cold water; beat and roll as above. Especial- 
ly nice for roller dumplings. 

" What are they, Aunt Jane? " 

" Ton may as well write down the recipe." 

No. 149 — ^EOLLER DuMPLINOS. 

Take any of the above kinds of paste and roll out very 
thin. Then spread it evenly to within half an inch of the 
edge with any kind of jam or similar preserve (not 
11 



1C2 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

liquid), then begin with the side next you and roll up 
carefully to the shape of a bolster. Tlie farther edge should 
be left uncovered for an inch, and the edges wet all round 
that they may adhere to each other. Then take a piece 
of stout cloth of the same shape as the roll, but larger, 
roll the dnmpling in it, and tie up the ends, first dipping 
the cloth in hot wat«r, wringing it out and flouring the 
inside. 

" Then you boil it, I suppose," said Edith. 

" Oh, yes, that is always understood of a dumpling, 
though I have seen a recipe for a baked one, I never 
tried it, but I have it here, and you may copy it if you 
choose," 

No. 150 — Bakeo Apple DuMPLiKoa, . 

Prepare a regular "dumpling-crust"; roll it out, cut 
into squares and in the center of each lay a juicy, tart 
apple, pared and cored; bring the comei-s of the square 
neatly togetlier and pincli them slightly. Lay in a but- 
tered baking pan, the joined edges downward, and bake to 
a fine brown. When done, brush over with beaten egg 
and set back into the oven to glaze for a few minutes. 
Sift powdered sugar over them and eat with sauce. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 163 

No. 151 — To GLAZE Pastry, 



1 • 

t 






The appropriate glazing for meat pies is made with 
beaten yolk of egg alone, laid on with a feather or paste- \ 

brush; for a lighter color (like that for the baked dump- 
lings), the whole of the egg may be beaten together. The 
best method of glazing fruit tarts before they are sent to 
the oven is to moisten the paste with ice-water, sift sugar 
thickly upon it, and press it lightly with the hand; but 
when a whiter icing is preferred, the pastry must be drawn 
from the oven when nearly baked and brushed with white 
of egg whisked to a froth, then well covered with the 
sifted sugar and sprinkled with a few drops of water be- 
fore it is put in again. 

No. 162 — ^Flakst Paste. 

After mixing together as for puff paste (No. 64), and 
giving the first application of butter, brush over with 
whipped white of egg before you fold it to roll out again. 
Repeat this process each time, or four times in all. 

" That has nothing to do witii dumplings, has it, Aunt 
Jane?" 

" No, but I was reminded of it by the directions for 



164 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

glazing. It does not make the paste taste 
anything, it will not be qnite as tender, b 
very elegantly, and is handsome when yoc 
for company." 

No, 153 — Baking Powdek Bibi 
One lb. flour, one tablespoonful butter ai 
three-quarters of a pint sweet milk, one ev 
salt and fire of baking powder, sifted with 
the shortening through with the hand ni 
pour in the milk, mix lightly, and roll o 
board withont any kneading, cnt with a 
and bake in a quick oven. 

*'What do you give us biscuit now for 

" Because the very same recipe makes caj 

paste, and I want to give you your chc 

come to what we shall have to-day — ^peach 

*' Oh, good ! I didn't know we had any j 

" I think the fact has been carefully cone 

because the peaches are not ripe enough tc 

are rather hard and green, but they will di 

a pie." 



AUNT jane's *COOKING CLASS. 165 

Ko. 154^ — ^Peacii Dumpung. 

Make a paste by any of the above recipes; roll it out 
to half an inch thickness, pile as many cut-up peaches on 
it as you think the paste will cover, mixing through tlieiu 
a tablespoonful of coffee sugar; gather the edges of tlio 
paste carefully together, so as to make the dumpling as 
nearly as possible a round ball; tie it in a well-floured cloth 
wrung out of hot water; turn a plate upside down in the 
kettle to prevent the cloth from sticking to it; plunge the 
dumpling into boiling water and boil two hours. 

"Now we will go down to the kitchen," said Aunt 
Jane, " and while Grace is making the paste, liose and 
Edith, between them, can make some cake for tea." 

"Shall I go into the cellar to make it, Aunt Jane?" 
asked Grace. 

" Oh no, that is not necessary for boiled paste, or dough, 
as some people call it, though dough is properly only 
what is raised with yeast. It will be just as nice ma^le 
here, and it is more sociable for us to be all togethw. 
Make your paste from the first recipe — simple ^ dumpling 
crust.' Xow, Eose, as we have had nothing here for a 
long time but fine cake, you may make mints ginger rnjj>- 
cakes, after one of these old recipes.'' 



Ibb BIX LITTLB COOES. 

No, 155 — Molasses Cop-C. 
Two cups molasses, two of brown sugt 
of rich milk, one of butter, five of siftet 
one heaping tablespooaful ginger, one 
spice and one of cloves. Bake in i 
moderate oven. If not spiced enough t 
more ginger. 

"Why do they so often speak of 'rich 

" I Buppose because some people use s 
cooking, after taking off the cream foi 
person who writes the recipe doesn't wan 
tide spoiled. Never use skim-milk in 
can get any other. Oh, I forgot that t 
not prepared yet; you two girls may pa 
up while Gracie is making the paste, an 
will help you to prepare your materials.' 

"Does this paste look about right, Ai: 
Grace when she had rolled it out. 

"Yes, just right; now we must have 
pan or a round vegetable-dish to lay i 
peaches in place. If Khoda will wring 
hot water for you, you can rub it inside 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 167 

lay it in tlie dish, put in your paste and afterward 
the peaches and sugar which the girls have been getting 
ready for you, and then all you have to do is to gather 
the edges together and press them tightly so that no wa- 
ter can get inside. Now we will tie up the cloth, not 
too close to the ball, because there must be a little room 
left for it to swell in, nor too loosely, because that would 
let it fall out of shape; but just — so ! " 

" I quite long for dinner-time to come," said Grace. 
"Not so much because I want to taste it myself as to see 
how the rest like it, especially mamma and papa.'' 

" You may make your mind perfectly easy about that, 
Grace; I know it will be good." 

"Are apple dumplings made in the same way?" 
"Yes; and so are cherry and blackberry and huckle- 
berry, and any thing else you like to use. Many people 
make all these things into what they call ' bolsters,' or 
rollers, but I dont think they are nearly as nice as when 
the fruit is all kept together in the middle." 

"What a queer name for anything to eat — bolsters! " 

" I don't think it's an agreeable one, so I never call 

them so. Sometimes they are called ' valise puddings,' 

which isn't so bad, but that there isn't anything in the 



168 SIX LITTLE COOES. 

valises used now-a-days (which are shaped like little 
trunks,) to remind you of them." 

" What kind of eauce must we have for this? " 
"At home we always had them served in this way: a 
plate of butter was set by the one who served the damp- 
IiDgB, and a piece of it was placed directly in the mid- 
dle of each helping; this was covered with a great 
spoonful of white sugar and the eater distributed them 
for himself, so we'll have it done in that way to-day, to 
remind your mother of old times." 

" But I supp(^e some people eat sauce with it, don't 
they?" inquired Eose. 

"Yes; generally hard sauce, though liquid sauce is 
equally admissible." 

" How do you make hard sauce, Aunt Jane? " 
" Why, did I never tell you? Then you must have the 
recipe for it straightway." 

^ No. 156 — Haioj Sauce. 
Beat to a cream one cup butter, to which add three 
cnpe powdered sugar. Beat long and hard, then place 
upon a small dish and smooth into shape with a knife- 
blade dipped in cold water. It is made richer by having 



mr- 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 169 

half a cup of wine, or the juice of a lemon, or both, 
beaten up with it. When smooth, grate nutmeg thickly 
on the top. 

"Here i. softer e...Md, Bice one:.' | 

-^ No. 157 — FEurr Pudding Sauce. . : 

Half a cup of butter, two and a half cups sugar, one 
cup boiling water, one dessert spoonful com starch wet ! 

■ 

with a little cold milk, one glass of wine, the juice and ; 

half the peel of a lemon. Cream the butter and sugar 

together; pour the corn starch into the boiling water and 

stir untilVell thickened; beat all together five minutes 

in a bowl off the fire, heat then until nearly boiling, add ' 

the wine and serve. 



No. 158 — ^Feench Sauce. 

Beat half a pound butter to a cream, stir in half a 
pound brown sugar, add the beaten yolk of an egg and 
one giU of wine, place it over the fire and keep stirring 
till it simmers. Grate nutmeg over it before it is sent to 

table. 

« 

" That is an excellent sauce for apple dumplings,'' ob- 
served Aunt Jane, "but I can tell you of one much 



I 



1 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 171 

" Have you come to the end of your dumpling recipes, 
Aunt Jane?" 

'' By no means, but we have about come to the end of 
our time, for Rhoda will want us to get out of the way so 
that she can cook the dinner. So we'll just -get the cup- 
cakes into the oven, and leave the rest of our recipes un- 
til another time." 



ArNT jane's cooking class. 173 

"We haven't asked her, but I know she will," said 
Grace, and ran off to make sure of it. 

Any one who knows Aunt Jane can easily guess the 
answer. Soon after breakfast on Thursday morning she 
met the three older girls at Mrs. Carroll's. 

" Mamma is just going to have a simple lunch to-day 
and a late dinner," said Kose, " so that nothing can possi- 
bly interfere with us, and we'll have the whole day to our- 
selves." 

" Tour mother and I have had some consiiltation about 
our refreshments and other matters," said Mrs. King. 
" At first we were going to have the good old-fashioned 
hours of four to eight, but there must be a birthday cake, 
and that wouldn't be any thing without candles, and the 
candles won't show by daylight; so, all things considered, 
as the weather is very hot and the visitors wouldn't want j 

to come out early in the afternoon, the invitations have i 

been made from five to nine." 

" The three little ones are going round giving them 
this morning," said Eose. 

" So we will have a regular tea (only there won't be 
any tea,) at half-past six; and about a quarter before nine 
we'll' have the cake, all lighted up, and some lemonade." 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 175 

repeated fotir times, the water looking less and less black 
after each operation. After the fifth water was poured 
off, Mrs. King said they were ready to dry. 

*' Now take this large crash towel and rub them in it, 
a few at a time," said she. 

It was surprising to see how much dirt and how many 
scraps of foreign matter the currants had contrived to re- 
tain in spite of all their duckings and sousings; but 
towels were plenty and Rose was almost nervously neat, 
and she did not let them go until they were what she 
called "really, truly, eatably clean." 

" This fruit is all for the birthday cake," said Aunt 
Jane, as she showed her pupils how to shred up citron. 
" What we will have on the tea-table will be quite plain." 

""What else are we going to have for tea?" asked 
Grace. 

"First and foremost, cold boiled ham and cold tongue; 
those are the solids; then biscuit, jam puffs, chocolate, 
and, if you choose to make them, lemon jelly and soft 
custard." 

" Of course we will! " 

" Berries are so common everywhere, that I think the 
little girls would like the jelly better. We can have a 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 177 

half a teaspoonful cream tartar, a quarter of a teaspoonful 
soda. 

" How can we ever measure a quarter of a teaspoonful, 
Aunt Jane?" 

" Measure A^our half one of cream tartar and divide it 

t/ 

into two little piles; then make a pile of soda of the size 
of one of these. That isn't hard to do." 

"And what will be the name of the birthday cake, 
Aunt Jane?' 

"What I made for Amy's last birth-day was Dover 
cake, and I don't think there's anything nicer for the pur- 
pose. You have it in your receipt-books, number 34. 
To that we add a pound of raisins, a pound of currants, a 
quarter of a pound of citron, a glass of brandy and some 
spice, and that makes a fruit-cake of it. This recipe 
makes a very large loaf, which of course must be iced, so 
it will present quite an imposing appearance. Usually 
we bake it in two loaves, but to-day it must go into a 
four quart tin pan." 

Mrs. King didn't have to tell the girls a word about 

putting the cake together that day, they had done it so 

often before. She watched them with great pleasure as 

one set about beating the whites of eggs, another the 
12 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 179 

" I have a bright idea, girls," said Aunt Jane when the 
oven door had been closed upon the cake from which so 
much was expected. " Instead of soft custard, suppose 
we make whipped cream for to-morrow, as this is a great 
occasion." 

" Oh, that would be perfectly delicious," cried Kose. 
"Everybody likes whipped cream, and it will look so 
much more like a party than custard, such as we have 
every few days. Is there any particular recipe for it, 
Aunt Jane ? " 

" Yes, indeed; I'll give it to you now, though we can't 
make the cream till to-morrow, because it must be fresh." 

No. 162 — ^Whipped Cream. 

One pint cream, one small cup fine sugar, one gill wine. 
Mix all together in a large bowl and beat hard with a 
whisk, or what is still better, churn with a whip-chum. 
As the froth rises, take it carefully off with a spoon, and 
place in the dish in which it is to be served. 

"That will look beautiful with the jelly," said Edith. 
" What kind shall we make to go with it? " 

"We haven't tried orange jelly yet; and as there is to 
be wine in the cream, we don't care for wine jelly to eat 



AUNT JANE S COOKING CLASS. 181 

After Edith had grated the peel of the oranges and 
lemons, and squeezed out the juice very thorough!}^, she 
threw in the cinnamon, and then poured on them a pint 
of boiling water. The whole was then closely covered, 
that the flavor might be completely diffused. Then, as 
it was to remain so for half an hour, Edith left it and 
made the cocoanut drops; after which the jelly- water 
was strained and the sugar stirred in. It was then put 
over the fire until it boiled, when the soaked gelatine was 
stirred in, and as soon as this was dissolved, the whole 
was poured into a flannel bag and run into moulds. 

The cocoanut drops, being made after the following sim- 
ple recipe, did not take a very long time. '^ 

No. 164 — Cocoanut Wafers. 

Half a pint powdered sugar, the same of desiccated co- 
coanut, three even tablespoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoon- 
ful vanilla, two eggs. Beat the eggs and add successively 
the sugar, vanilla, flour and cocoanut. Bake on buttered 
paper. 

When the birth-day cake came out, after being in- 
spected by many admiring eyes, it was set away in the 
pan to cool. " We must ice it over the top," said Aunt 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 183 

cup-cake, using tlie after-dinner coffee-cups for it, so as to 
make a small quantity, and two eggs instead of four. 
She found some diflSculty in estimating half the quantity 
named of soda and cream tartar, but after much solemn 
consultation among the three, it was measured out, and 
the cake proved excellent, though a little broken on the 
under side, owing to the difficulty of getting it out, the 
tins not having been buttered. Amy had moused about 
till she found an old receipt-book of her aunt's, in which 
there were directions for " sugar drops," a confection not 
named in her mother's list; so she copied it into her book 
and made half the quantity, for fear they should not turn 
out well. 

No. 165 — Sugar Deops. 

Beat the whites and yolks of four eggs separately to a 
light foam; dilute the yolks with two teaspoonfuls of 
water, add the whites and beat for some time together; 
then add by degrees a pound of fine powdered sugar, and 
afterward a quarter of a pound of flour, beating con- 
stantly. Flavor with extract of lemon or orange juice. 
Drop spoonfuls ot the mixture on buttered paper, ice 
them over with powdered sugar, and bake about ten 
minutes. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 185 

rest the edges of the cake on and support it. A round 
loaf of cake will often fit into the top of a vegetable dish." 

As soon as the cake was thickly iced, and before it was 
dry, Aunt Jane said she would show the girls what she 
once saw done by a professional cook. She had procured 
from the confectioner's some pink frosting-sugar, and had 
made a little horn of white paper with an opening at the 
small end about as large as the head of a pin. Then she 
traced very lightly with a pin-point on the icing a pretty 
border in a sort of embroidery pattern, and in the center 
the word " Jessie," with the date of the anniversary un- 
derneatji it. 

" Now, Eose," said sh€, '' take tiiis in your hand and go 
slowly over all the pattern I have traced on the top of 
the cake. The pink sugar will run out through the little 
hole in the end of the horn, and as the icing dries it will 
close in round it and keep it in place, even after it is cut. 
Not so fast! Tour lines will be too thin; and not too 
slowly or you will make a heap instead of a fine line. 
There; now that your hand moves steadily it looks very 
pretty." 

" It is too bad to spoil this handsome cake by sticking 
candles into it," said Edith. 



I 

t 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 187 

same saucer; and as for the biscuit, made by Eose, and 
Grace's puffs, filled with different kinds of jelly, all that 
needs to be said of them is that they were worthy of Aunt 
Jane's Cooking Class. 



I. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 1S5> 

in tlie matter. All I do is to look at them : tliev would 
feel quite hurt if I touched anything." 

'^I am delighted to hear it. I had no idea that the 
fancy would hold out so long. "What do you think would | 

be nice in the way of sweets? " 

"Peaches are tolerably plenty now, and I should like 
to show the girls some ways of using them. An open pie 
in puff paste would be very handsome." i 

"Elegantl Anything else?" J 

r 

" A chocolate meringue makes a good variety, and we 
might have coffee instead of chocolate, so as not to have . 

too much of the same thing, and some light cake, not very i 

rich. KoUs are the best thing in the way of bread, but 
as they are out of our line, we will make some biscuit 
instead. And you must not forget that the children 
have the promise of setting the table, so we must do what 
we can to-day to give them more time." i 

"Arrange everything just as you please," said Mrs. 
Yemon ; "I'm only too thankful to have it off my hands." ■ 

Then Mrs. King brought her little army together and ji 

explained the bill of farfe to them. They found the pros- 

I 

pect of getting up such a handsome lunch very exciting, 
and wanted to begin at once. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 191 

While Amy put the cake together, Mrs. King and 
Mabel pared, stoned and cut up the peaches. Then Mabel 
weighed them, and found that there were two pounds. 
These her aunt told her to put over the fire in a sauce- 
pan with one pound of white sugar and a cupful of water. 
"We don't stew peaches for ordinary pies," said she, 
"but as I want this one to look handsome as well as taste 
nice, I am going to take extra pains with it." 

When about half cooked the peaches were taken off the 
fire and set away for awhile, and by the time Grace's 
paste was ready to roll out, they were cool enough to use. 
AVlien a couple of pie-plates haxJ been lined with paste, 
the stewed peaches were poured into them until even 
with the top; across this strips of paste were laid in dia- 
mond-shaped lattice- work, each strip being twisted like a 
strand of worsted cord before it was placed over the com- 
pote; then a margin of paste just the size of that of the 
pie-dish, was laid on, the under surface being first wet 
with cold water. 

"Why did you stew these first, Aunt Jane?" asked 
Grace. _ 

" For several reasons. Unless the peaches had been 
piled up high in the middle, which would have njade the 



!! 



H 



V 



■^^' 



^•l^^ 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 193 

as cook. At the same time Mabel was invited to spend 
the morning with Jessie, with the promise that she should 
come home when the little waiters ate their lunch. 

She would rather have stayed and helped at home, but 
having a strong suspicion that she would be somewhat 
in the way, she went off very pleasantly, and the cooking 
party set to work in good earnest. 

" Now for our new recipe," said Aunt Jane. 

No. 169 — Stewed Sweetbreads. 

Lay the sweetbreads in milkwarm water for an hour, 
having first carefully trimmed off all bits of skin and 
fat. Then throw into boiling water and boil hard ten 
minutes, after which cool them off in ice- water until they 
become white and firm. Then stew until tender in a 
very little water, add for each one a heaping teaspoonful 
of butter, a little chopped parsley with pepper and salt, 
and a little cream, together with the yolk of a hard boiled 
egg rubbed to a powder. Let them simmer in tliis gravy 
for five minutes; then send to table in a covered dish. 

"The sweetbreads will require three-quarters of an 
hour to stew," said Aunt Jane, " so we will begin on them 
13 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 193 

the winter it would be quite a curious experiment to see 
how well you could do it And in the mean time, per- 
haps your mother will get a parer for you." 

" Shan't we need something else beside peach pie for 
dessert, Aunt Jane?" said Grace. 

" I was thinking of a chocolate meringue," replied her 
aunt, such as you have a receipt for, No. 111. I think 
you might set about that immediately, and then it will 
have time to get cold. When it is done, you may make 
Tip the potato croquettes, and get ready the egg and bread- 
crumbs to fry them in. They won't suffer by standing 
two or three hours. Amy, you may take this delicate 
young cabbage that I found in market yesterday, and 
slice it with the cutter into fine shreds; then make this 
dressing for it." 

No. 172 — CoLDSLAw Dressing, 

Beat two eggs in a bowl that fits in the top of a tea- 
kettle; add a gill of vinegar and water mixed, an ounce 
of butter, an even teaspoonful of salt and one of sugar; 
place the bowl over boiling water and when hot stir until 
it is thicker than boiled custard; then strain, and leave it 
until perfectly cold before pouring over the coldslaw. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 197 

is Called, abroad, set exactly opposite another, and how 
the double supply of knives, forks and spoons must be 
made into a square around each napkin. A dish of fruit 
stood in the center of the table, with a lovely arrange- 
ment of flowers on each side of it, and some of the dishes 
and various relishes were also set on, but the most im- 
portant of the instructions related to the manner of serv- 
ing. 

" There musn't be any rattling and clattering of spoons 
and dishes when you are changing plates. Each plate 
that is to be used for pie must have a place by itself with 
a saucer on it for the meringue; then when you have re- 
moved the first set of plates, which must be done as quiet- 
ly as possible, you must take one plate and saucer in each 
hand and set them before two guests; then go back to the 
table for two more. You will not need extra knives and 
forks and spoons, because all these are put on at first by 
each plate. Then for the fruit you .must lay a doyley on 
each fruit plate, set the finger bowl on it, and carry them 
round in the same way. As it is probable that only forks 
will be used for the pie, the knives will remain on the 
table ready for the fruit ; but you must look at each place, 
and if you see one without a knife, lay one down quietly 
at the right hand when you put on the finger glass." 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 199 

t 

of the guest; when you set down any thing, like a cup or 
plate, it must always be done from the right haud.^ 

" I see why you should pass a thing at the left side. 
Aunt Jane," said Rose, " but I don't see why you shouldn't 
always do it from the same side." 

" Because when you are setting down anything before 
a person seated at the table, it is apt to bring your elbow 
inconveniently near her, unless you are constantly on the 
watch to prevent it, and it is much simpler to set things 
down alwavs from the other side. You'll find it so as 
soon as you begin to do it." 

Many more were the particulars into which this good 
aunt entered with her attentive and zealous little pupils, 
but we have not time to detail them now. "We must go 
back to the kitchen, where the final cooking was still to 
be done. 

" Now the sweet-breads are ready for their last immer- 
sion, Grace. Just follow the directions and you can't 
miss doing them well. The croquettes will go over in 
about fifteen minutes, and the lard must be ' hissing hot ' 
to be ready for them. Amy, you may take a large knife 
and fork and cut up the coldslaw a little, before you pour 
over the dressing. It is very unmanageable when it is in 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 201 



FOUETEENTH DAY. 

" Don't you think it's about time for us to cook another 
breakfast, Aunt Jane?" asked Grace. '• We want to have 
some different things this time; none of the same except 
the coffee." 

" I'm willing," answered her aunt. " "We'll do it to- 
morrow if you like; and in the mean time I must give 
you some breakfast recipes. Here is one of the oldest, 
easiest and most respectable." 

I^o. 174 — Corned Beef Hash. 

Take tender boiled corned beef, entirely free from fat or 
gristle, chop it fine, and mix with it chopped boiled pota- 
toes in the proportion of one cup of beef to three of pota- 
toes. Add enough salt to season the potatoes, pepper to 
your taste, mix very thoroughly together and let it stand 
over night. Half an hour before the time to serve, place 
it on the fire in an iron frying pan, with one tablespoon- 
ful of cold water and a teaspoonful of butter to each cup of 



AUNT June's cooking class. 303 

Wlien this is done, add to it two eggs beaten very light ' 
and a teacupful cream or milk, with salt to taste. Beat 
again and bake in a quick oven until browned. 

" We made the croquettes for lunch, you remember," 
said Aunt Jane, " and the puff is very liard on your little 
arms, for it is nothing without a great deal of beating; so 
we'll be contented this time with maitre d^hotelP 

" What does that mean. Aunty? " 

"A maitre d'hotel is the chief steward of a hotel or 
restaurant, or, in very elegant establishments, of a private 
family, and as he often combines a knowledge of cookery 
with his other accomplishments, it was natural to name a 
dish after him. In case you should ever want to cook a 
winter breakfast, I'll tell you a way to do codfish." 

No. 177 — ^TossED-up Codfish. 

Pick to pieces cold boiled codfish, or use the desiccated, 
which is already prepared. Prepare half a pint of thin 
drawn-butter, to which add half a pint sweet milk, three 
liard-boiled eggs cut up fine, a tablespoonful of butter, a 
few grains red pepper and some chopped parsley. Heat 
this till nearly boiling, then throw in the fish and boil up 
once, after which serve in a deep dish on buttered toast. 
It must be hot. 



ACN .ane's cookixo class. 205 

Ko. 181 — Omelette, au^Jin<^s hi'vlhs. 

Make according to the above recipe, but before turning 
into the frying-pan add two tablespoonfuls clioppoii 
parsley, green thyme and sweet niajorani, mixed tv>getlier 
with pepper and salt* Put a good lump of butter into 
the frying-pan, and when hot turn in the omelette and 
fry to a light brown. To make a ham omelette of this: 
take half the amount of herbs and two tablespoonfuls 
finely chopped ham. 

No. 182 — Charlotte Muffins. 

« 

One quart flour, three eggs, beaten separately and very 
stiif, three cups sour milk and a small tea8j>oonful soda, a 
little salt. Beat hard, and bake in muffin rings on a 
griddle. 

No. 183 — EicE Muffins. 

One cup cold boiled rice, one pint flour, two eggs, one 
tablespodnful butter, one teaspoonful salt, one quart milk, 
or enough to make a thin batter. Beat hard and bake 
quickly. 

" Now I think," said Mrs. King, " that we ought to be 
able to get a good breakfast out of all these recipes. You 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 207 

gravy, add butter, hot water and any kind of catsup, to- 
mato being the nicest. Add pepper or a teaspoonful of 
Worcestershire sauce, a tablespoonful of currant jelly and 
a little salt. Heat this nearly to boiling, then put in the 
meat and let it remain just long enough to make it also 
boiling hot. Having been once cooked it is better not to 
cook it again unless it was under-done at first, in which 
case it may simmer a few minutes longer. Serve in a 
covered dish, that it may be eaten hot. 

" I should think we ought to know by this time that 
things are to be eaten hot," remarked Grace. 

" It is something that can't be too often impressed on 
the minds of cooks and waiters," answered Aunt Jane. 
'^ How many good breakfasts are spoiled by being eaten 
half cold! To be sure, if servants are directed to ring 
the bell after the meal is on the table, and then the family 
is late in coming down, then cook can't be blamed if her 
dishes are spoiled. But I have one more recipe to give you 
for a very favorite dish of mine." 

No. 186 — Junkets. 

A cup and a half Indian meal, a handful of flour, half 
a teaspoonful soda, one teaspoonful salt, boiling water to 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 209 

" Here is something else that we must try some time 
or other. They are good for breakfast or tea." 

'No, 187 — Virginia "Wafers. 

One i^ound flour, two tablespoonfuls butter, half a tea- 
spoonful salt. Mix with sweet milk to a stiif dough, 
working thoroughly. Koll out very thin, cut into round 
cakes and roll these out again as thin as you can handle 
them. Dredge a little flour over a baking pan and lay 
them carefully in. Bake in a very quick oven. When 
first made they should be as thin as paper. They swell 
a little in baking. 

" Is there anything we ought to get ready to-night, 
Aunt Jane?" asked Grace. 

"Nothing that is really necessary," replied her aujit, 
"but we may do something to shorten the work a little 
to-morrow. Amy, you may cut up the potatoes and 
parsley, Mabel may measure out the herbs for the ome- 
lette and chop the ham very fine, and Grace may cut up 
the mutton. Don't put in any fat, Gracie, or at least very 
little. A strong taste of it is sure to make the dish dis- 
agreeable." 

As there was somewhat more to do on this occasion 
14 



SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

ras one when they had preiiared breatfae 
condescended to allow Khoda to mal 
e have graduated on that," they r 
e've shown once that we are able do 
ther give our time to new things," 
> the l>elvidere cakes, which required tl 
of any of the dislies, while Grace co 
als for the dish of mutton, and stiirt 
na. Mahel gave her wliole mind to tl 
ay, after her cakes liad gone int« tl 
id cooked the omelette. 
•nust have the whole front of the stov 
and omelette must he cooked the vei 
liers can be kept hot. If I had thongl 
have advised a baked omelette, but il 
"Well, Amy, we'll give you the hotte 
je back of the stove, and remember ne: 

he back place didn't turn out to be h' 
a part of the muffins were baked, tl 
ick and tlie omelette took its place whe 
Then the rest of the muffins were le 
ike and send in hot, and the cooks e 
lien for the breakfast table. 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 211 

^' This muttoii'Stew rather beats Ehoda," observed Mr. 
Vernon as he took his second helping, " though IVe noth- 
ing to say against Khoda, in a general way. And I don't 
believe there's any cook out of France can get up a bet- 
ter dish of potatoes than that; eh, Mabel? I always said 
nay daughters should each have a profession, and I don't 
know but that we shall have to make cooks of them." 

" Oh, papa," exclaimed Grace in high indignation, " if 
you're going to do that, I think we'd better not learn any 
more!" 

" Oh, I'll throw in a little music and drawing and 
mathematics and such things, so that you can take your 
choice. But still, if the worst comes to the worst, you 
know " 

" I think ' the worst ' will probably be Rhoda's being 
sick some time or other," said Mrs. Vernon; " and then * 
I'm sure we shall be very glad to have our little daughters 
take her place." 

After breakfast Mrs. Bang beckoned Mabel aside and 
asked her if she wouldn't like to make something for 
dessert all bv herself. Of course Mabel said she would, 
and her aunt gave her this recipe, saying it was an old 
one of her own mother's. 



[K LITTLE COOKS, 

— Mothek's liicB Podding. 
ti cups milk; bake five bours. 

line, that is the ehortest receipt I evei 

re is of it," answered her aniit, "ex- 
■ae any cook would know that then 
lit added — perhaps a teaspoonful, Yoi 
: carefully to get out any specks of din 
buttered baking-dish with the mill 
3ven door and forget all about it, it 
and slow. If the fire is a quick one 
De turned so as to shut off the heat 
process of heating, the watery part ol 
!8, and the rich, creamy remainder he 
ted with the rice, that there is no nee< 
If you want to make it still better 
of raisins, not stoned, Out I'ust care 
after the pudding has been in abou 
■u may just stir them up in it; it wil 

1 it, Aunt Jane?" 

ir sauce with it myself, but yon ma; 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 213 

make some hard sauce from your N'o. 156 recipe, in case 
the others should wish for it. It may be made as soon as 
you have set in the pudding, and then left in the ice-box 
until dinner-time." 

" Won't you let me write down some more receipts, 
aunty?" 

'• Oh yes, a dozen of them if you want them, and the 
other girls can copy them into their books aftenvards. 
I'll give you some that you can use next winter." 

No. 189 — ^Apple Charlotte. 

Butter a deep pie-dish ; place a layer of buttered bread 
(without crust), on the bottom, then a layer of thin slices 
of apple, pared and cored, grate a little lemon peel on 
them, and squeeze on a few drops of juice, then a layer of 
sugar — perhaps two tablespoonfuls — and one tablespoon- 
ful of water; then begin with another layer of bread and 
butter, and so on until the dish is full; cover the top 
closely with the peel of the apples, to preserve the char- 
lotte from burning; this can be removed when the dish 
is served, and a little fine sugar sprinkled over the top. 
Will require from three-quarters of an hour to one hour 
in baking. 



214 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

No. 190 — Suet Pudding. 

One cup chopped suet, one of seeded raisins, one of 
milk, three of flour, butter the size of an egg, grated rind 
of a lemon, one teaspoonful soda, spice or not, according 
to taste; boil in a form four hours. 

No. 191 — Foaming Sauce. 

One cup butter beaten to a cream ; add one of sugar 
and one wine-glass of wine; beat together thoroughly. 
Heat one and a half wine-glassfuls of wine by setting it 
in hot water, and add it to the other, but do not stir after- 
ward. Let the whole stand in hot water until served. 

No. 192 — Cottage Pudding. 

One cup sugar, half a cup milk, half a teaspoonful soda, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one and a half cups flour, 
one ef^g, or two if you prefer it; stir well together; bake 
twenty minutes. To be eaten with liquid sauce. 

No. 193 — Syracuse Sauce. 

One cup of butter and two of sugar rubbed togetlier 
to a light cream; yolks of two well-beaten eggs stirred in, 
then one cup hot (not boiling) wine. Whites of the 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 215 

eggs to be beaten to a froth and stirred in at the last mo- 
ment before serving. 

No. 194 — Rich Indian Pudding. 

Eight tablespoonfuls meal (heaping), six eggs, one 
quart milk, six oz. sugar, a quarter of a lb. butter, one 
glass wine. Scald the milk and wet every particle of 
the meal with it; then add the other ingredients. Bake 
slowly two hours. This requires no sauce. 

No. 195 — Plain Indian Pudding. 

Boil a quart of milk and pour it on a pint and a quarter 
of corn meal; mix until every grain has been wet with 
the milk; boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally; 
then add half a pint molasses, one teaspoonful ginger and 
the same of salt. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a 
slow oven. 

No. 196 — Suet Indian Pudding. 

One quarter of a pound suet, chopped fine, half a 
tumbler molasses, half a teaspoonful salt, one pint corn 
meal, one pint boiling milk, half a pint cold milk, two 
teaspoons ginger and the same of cinnamon. Put together 
as in the above recipe, except that the meal is to be mixed 



L 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 217 



LAST DAY. 

" Oh, Aunt Jane, must you really go next week? Can't 
you stay just a little longer? What shall we do without 
you?" 

" It's very hard for me to go, Gracie, but yon must re- 
member that there are some people waiting at home who 
have had to do without me all summer. And then Amy 
must be back in time for the opening of school." 

" I shall miss Amy so much! " said Mabel plaintively. 

" Oh, you and Amy must write to each other and tell 
all your experiences, and next summer I hope your 
mamma will bring you both to see us." 

" Don't you think it would be a good thing," said Mrs. 
Vernon, who came in at that moment, " to have one grand 
cooking frolic to close up with, and ask both the other 
families in? Considering what famous little cooks these 
girls have become, I think it would be quite exciting." 

"It's an excellent idea," replied Mrs. King. "We 
must look over our recipes and pick out the nicest, and 



218 SIX LITTLE COOKS. 

try to show ourselves off to the best possible advantage. 
I really think we can make a very creditable display." 

" What do you say to the day after to-morrow?" asked 
Mrs. Yernon. " That will give us time to get ready with- 
out crowding, and it won't carry the children's excite- 
ment about it over into another week." 

"That will suit me as well as any time," replied Mrs. 
King, " and I want to collect all my ' cooking-class ' this 
afternoon to give them some additional recipes that they 
can try by themselves in the winter, and see how much 
they remember of what I have told them. I think they 
are pretty well grounded in the ai*t." 

Accordingly the class was called together for a general 
examination and review. They thought it great fun, and 
ranged ftiemselves in a straight line just as they did at 
school in spelling-class, so that they could " go up and 
down " when anybody missed. Then. Aunt Jane began 
her catechism, passing on the questions to the next in 
order if they were not answered promptly. 

" What is the first thing you must provide yourselves 
with when you are going to cook?" 

" Clean hands and nails and tidy hair." 

"Next?" 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 219 

"Clean aprons." 

"What must you have in the kitchen?" 

"A good fire and plenty of hot water." 

" What is the rule about dishes and other utensils?" 

," To use just as few as we possibly can, and manage so 
as. to take the same one for several things when it won't 
spoil the taste of what we're making." 

'^ Wliat ought you to do with flour? " 

"Sift it, always." 

" What must you do in breaking eggs?" 

" Break each one into a separate saucer before you put 
it with the rest." 

"And if you accidentally get one in that isn't fresh?" 

" Throw away the whole dishful! " 

" How about separating the yolks and whit6B?" 

" Break them separate for all kinds of delicate cake, or 
for anything that is to be very light But the recipes 
generally give you directions." 

"Is there anything where it is best not to separate 
them?" 

"Baked custards, and gingerbread, and such things." 

" Bather indefinite, but no matter. When must you 
use ' cooking butter '? " 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 221 

" When you are going to use gelatine or tapioca, what 
then?" 

"Think of it a long time beforehand, and put it to 
soak." 

"How do you strain jelly? " 

" Pour it into a bag and then don't touch it till it has 
all run through." 

" Suppose it won't run through?" 

" Then you set it, very carefully, in a hotter place." 

" How do you make pastry? " * 

" In a cold place, and hardly touching it with your 
hands." 

" And when there is more than one layer of it? " 

" Wet the parts that touch each other with ice- water." 

" What do you do with tea-pots and coffee-pots? " 

" Scald them before you begin, and empty and wash 
and wipe them as soon as they are done with." 

" Is there anything else that you heat before using it? " 

" All sorts of tins to bake cake in." 

" What is your rule in regard to seasoning and flavor- 
ing?" 

"Better put in too little than too much; you must 
keep trying it unless there is an exact quantity men- 
tioned." 



TTLE COOKS. 

iure to do when yon are cooting 

dy at the time it is ordered, and 

out Bervin;; it." 

mr from getting lumpy? " 

nooth, first with a little milk or 

ling the rest to it slowly." 

)ut eggs into boiling milk what 

e fire and poiir it into the eggs> 

e." 

r baking cake nicely?" 

I doors any more than you can 

; only you must be sure not to 

lings from burning that are on 

mother thing that has boiling 

ng eggs or boiling them in their 

iter be ? " 

not boiling violently." 
idian meal from having that raw 
n things made with it?" 



ATNT jane's, cooking CLASS. 223 

" By scalding the meal so tliat no part of it is not wet 
witli the boiling milk or water." 

" How can you make pie-crust look nice and as if it had 
been freshly baked?" 

" By heating it a little in the oven just before it is sent 
to table." 

" I must say," said Aunt Jane when all these questions 
had been asked and answereo, " I think you stand ex- 
amination very well. I hope you won't let your knowl- 
edge rust out for want of practice. Now you know I've 
given you a mere sprinkling of recipes from among the 
thousands you might make if you had time and oppor- 
tunity. Is there anything else you would like to have 
directions for?" 

"Doughnuts," exclaimed two or three voices at once. 

"Fortunately," said Aunt Jane, " I have an excellent 
recipe for them. When 1 was a little girl we did'nt 
know that doughnuts could be made in any other way 
than raised with yeast; but you can make such good ones 
with soda that one does'nt miss the yeast at all, and it is 
much less trouble." 

No. 197 — Jenny's Doughnuts. 
Two cups sugar, four tablespoonfuls melted lard, four 



IX LITTLE 



eggs, one pint sour milk, one heaping teaspoonfnl 6oda 
and one of nutmeg; flour enongli to roU out with, 

" I ought to tell you also that risen bread dough with a 
lump of butter kneaded into it makes very nice crust for 
dumplings; and in my young days we used to think that 
plain dougli made into balls about the size of an apple 
and boiled a long time, made the most delicious dump- 
lings in the world when they were eaten hot with molas- 
ses." 

"Don't you think, Mrs. King," said Edith, "that it 
seems sometimes rather a pity to spend so much time and 
money on things that are used up so soon, and after all 
don't do you any more good than plain ones?" 

" If each one was eooting for herself alone I should 
think it a very poor business," answered Aunt Jane; " but 
when you think how much our social pleasure is increased 
by having nice things, aud that when we make them we 
are gratifying our fathers and mothers and brothers, it 
doesn't seem so much like waste time. To enjoy cooking 
you must never think of your own satisfaction in eating 
what you make, but of the pleasure you are going to give 
otliers-." 



AUNT jane's OOOKINa CLASS. 225 

"I read a very funny story about a man's cooking, 
lately," said Eose. " I think any of us would have more 
sense than he did, if we are little girls." 

" What was it, my dear? " asked her aunt. 

" It was about Lord Byron and some of his friends. They 
had a receipt for a very rich plum-pudding and wanted 
to have a gi'eat treat; they were in some foreign country, 
I forget exactly where, and they had to teach their cook 
how to make this dish which he had never heard of. So 
after going to great trouble to get the materials, and fol- 
lowing the directions as precisely as they possibly could, 
finally the pudding came to table, but it was in the form 
of soup; they had forgotten the bag!" 

The girls laughed heartily at this, and at the thought 
of Lord Bvron's blank face when he took off the cover 
and looked into the tureen. " You never gave us any 
receipt for plum-pudding, Aunt Jane," they said. 

" Any common bread-pudding may be made as rich as 
you please by adding fruit almost ad lihiturrb^'^ replied she. 
" You can just mix in currants and raisins (well washed 
and well seeded always, remember), until it looks full 
enough. A real old-fashioned plum-pudding one seldom 
15 



AUNT jane's CdOKINa CLASS. 227 

No. 200— Our Own Pudding. 

Two teacups uncooked rice, one quart milk, two eggs, 
one half cup sugar, raisins if you wish. If made with 
boiled rice the eggs may be left out. 

No. 201 — ^Union Park Pice Pudding. 

One and a half teacups boiled rice, one half pint milk, 
a saltspoonful salt, one-half cup sugar, yolks of three eggs. 
Bake only until "set." Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
froth, season with lemon, return to the oven and brown. 
To be eaten cold. 

" Then here are a few others," said Aunt Jane, " that I 
picked out as being especially good, which I w^ant to 
give you before we close." 

No. 202 — ^North-Side Corn Bread. 

One cup meal, half a cup flour, one of sour milk, one 
tablespoonful melted butter, one of sugar, one teaspoonful 
soda, two eggs. 

No. 203 — ^Paste for Tarts. 

One and a quarter pounds butter, one and a half do. 
flour, a quarter of a pound of granulated sugar; rub all 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 229 

ful soda, and three of cream tartar. Sift the soda and 
cream tartar with the flour and mix well; rub the butter 
very tine through the flour, stir in the milk, then work 
lightly into shape on a floured board, roll about half an 
inch thick, cut, lay in buttered pans and bake in a quick 
oven. This may, for variety, be cut into strips an inch 
wide and as long as the pan will allow. 

" ITow, girls," said Aunt Jane, " we must stop. It's 
such fascinating work to talk over these nice recipes that 
we are rather apt to let them steal away our time. This 
is the day for deciding what we shall get ready for the 
good-by tea-party for our three families and some other 
friends that mamma Yernon is going to invite in our 
honor. First, as to the drinks, we will have tea, coflTee 
and chocolate. Now,, what is there in the way of bread 
that we can give them ? " 

" Tea biscuit, Yirginia wafers, company tea cake, Sally 
Lunns, breakfast puffs," said Grace, consulting her list. 

'' I think we'll leave off those last two and have plenty 
of the others. Now, we may as well assign to each what 
she is going to make. Grace may take the biscuit and 
wafers. Rose some baking-powder biscuit, and Edith the 
tea cake. What sweet cake shall we have? " 



AUNT jane's cooking CLASS. 231 

" So we will, and now I think our list of dainties is 
full enough. We'll make the fruit cake to-day, the others 
to-morrow, except the sponge, which must be made the 
same morning; the jelly to-morrow, and the whipped 
cream and meringue the next day, so as to have them 
nice and fresh. All kinds of biscuit and tea cake, of 
course, must be made the day they are eaten." 

I wish I could tell you of the fun they all had in pre- 
paring this feast of good things, and the well-deserved 
compliments that were paid them by every one who joined 
in the repast. But as my efforts have been linlited to 
giving my little readers some account of 4heir cooking 
lessons, I must not transgress bounds by describing any 
thing outside. Tou can imagine for yourselves that it 
was a proud and happy day for the mothers and fathers 
of our little friends when they had such convincing proof 
of their children's progress as was afforded by the excellent 
supper prepared , by them, and that the young peo- 
ple themselves, when they shall put in practice in future 
years the lessons of that happy time, will always look 
back with pleasure and gratification to the summer in 
which they were members of Aunt Jane's Cooking Class. 



SIX LITTLE COOES. 



AFTERTHOFGHT. 

I am told that prefaces are out of foahion; bat as I ba^ 
BOmething to say, — not to my readers, exactly, but to the 
mothers and aunta, — I have begged penniaaiDii to introduce 
here. This Utile volume does not profess to be a complete hand 
book of cookery, and many topics ralatiny to that deiightful ai 
are left untouched. My object ia only to excite such an intere 
in the puTHuit of it as may induce little people of ten or tweli 
years old to make some playful attempts at a beginning, vith tl 
hope ttat in future yeais they may be indined to foEow it up i 
aeriouB earnest. 

A word aa to the recipes, which have all been thoroughly teatei 
Some of them are tjken from those precious old maniiscript boo! 
which we all remember aa the unfailing storehouses of goo 
thing?; others have been contributed by the kindness of frienc 
at whose tables 1 haye enjoyed the diahea they represent; an 
for such as are due to neither of these Bourcea, I am indebl* 
principally to Mrs. Miller's charming work, " In the Kitchen, 
and Marion Harland's admirable manual, entitled " Conunc 
Sense in the Household." With these acknowledgments, whi< 
my conscience vrill not pllow me to withhold, I take n 

The Authob. 



INDEX. 



BISCUIT. TEA-CAKES, ETC. 

Bating Powder Biscuit 164 

Graham Biscuit 147 

SodaBiaciiit 228 

TeaBisenit 118 

Belvidere Cakes 1208 

Huckleberry Cake 144 

EimliurBt Johnny Cake 47 

Gramdnia's Short Cake 119 

Company Tea Cake liJ 

North Side Com Bre,' 1 227 

Junkets 207 

Laplanders 14^ 

Indian Meal MuiEna 147 

Charlotte Muffins 205 

RiceMuffina 20.1 

Popovera 9 

Graham Popovers 67 

BreaJjfiist Puffs 67 

German Puffs 55 

Sally Lunns 148 

Virginia Wafers "19 

Ba,rby's Waffles 151 

Buffalo Vfiiffles 150 

Geneva Waffles lol 



BREAKFAST DISHES. 

Tossed-up Codfish. S 

Drawn Butter 2 

Corned Beef Hash 

Veal Haah 

Mutton Eethauffe 

Omelette Aui fines iier 

Milk Omelette 

Plain Omelette 

South Side Omelette. . 
Lexington Avenue Pot; 
Maitie D'Hotel Potatei 
Potato Puffs 

Chocolate 

Cocoa Shells , 

Coffw '. 

ina Bakery Coffee - 

CA.KE. 

Aurora Cake 

Bread Cake.'.. ,,.,.., 

Oh'-eseCflke 

C::ci.-o!ate Calre 



CI ocolate Cake No 2 
C ic a Lit U it rs 
( ffpe f kp 
flm'-la 1 take 
f fa C le 
n fly f k 
D vet ( ake 
Drop Cjke 
1 mily s C \. 
frnii-h Cflkp 
iienr> Clay Cik 
Hoitei ( } 
Telly C k 



I 1 



1 akp 



1/) f f ke 
"Martlia k 
Mola Bi L Lk 
T\un bei f^ae 
hit Cake 
Oraig Cak 
Poor Man t ( nl e 
I oun 1 1 ke 
Puff fikp 

po Rp Cake 
Mock SpO I ike 
Is e Plus I va ''ponfro Cake 
Sirall ^ponceCakea 

ugfar Gill's 
Susan B * ake 



Bridget s Cooties 
Cn p Cookies 
FUen 8 Cook e s 
Muther a CookieB 
PliLiii Cookies 



PI M C ngerbread 
p n^ (ill gf.r\ read 
pprl e 1 Nuts 
< ^er S apt) 
Lf Tumbles 
1 lain J mljles 
Ring Ju hlea 



Chooolatp Ic ng 
W h te I ng 

CO\FFCT!OXERy 
Batter Scotch Caodj 
C ■cam Candj 

(loeolitc dTreaJi Cindy 
Molasaes Candy 
Mo iiiville Candy 
Soft C4n ly 
^ugrar Candv 
f h casfo Ciran els 
CI ocolate CoxaD eU 
M pi Cliocolate BaJls 



INDEX. 



235 



PAGE. 

Chocolate Creams 42 

Cocoanut Drops 39 

Sugfar Drops 183 

Everton Taify 40 

CUSTARDS, JELLIES, ETC. 

Blanc Mange » 130 

Chocolate Blanc Mange 132 

Com Starch Blanc Mange. . . 132 

Farina Blanc Mange 121 

Rice Blanc Mange 97 

Tapioca Blanc Mange 133 

A Good Cream 158 

Chocolate Cream 133 

Whipped Cream 179 

Baked Custard 9 

Boiled Custard 24 

Soft Custard 25 

Orange Jelly 180 

Tapioca Jelly 98 

WineJellv 22 

Chocolate Meringue 131 

LUNCH DISHES. 

Qhicken Croquettes "63 

Mixed Croquettes 64 

Potato Croquettes 194 

Potato Ribbon 194 

Saratoga Potatoes 63 

Stewed Sweetbreads 193 

Stuffed Eggs 108 



PAGE. 

Veal Balls 64 

Veal Loaf 110 

Coldslaw Dressing 19'> 

Dresden Dressing 66 

Mayonnaise Dressing 65 

Simple Salad Dressing 118 

PASTRY. 

Flaky Paste 163 

PuffPa^ste 77 

Paste for Tarts 227 

Cup Pie Crust 116 

Plain Pie Crust 78 

To Glaze Pastry 163 

Apple Pie 192 

Cocoanut Custard Pie. ^* . . . . 85 

Currant Pie 89 

Currant and Raspberry Tart . . 89 

Custard Pie 86 

Lemon Pie. 87 

Apple Pudding 85 

Cocoanut Pudding 84 

Esther's Pudding 84 

Lemon Pudding 87 

Marlborough Pudding 86 

Orange Pudding 86 

PUDDINGS. 

Dumpling Paste -. . . 160 

Pofcato Paste 161 

Suet Paste 101 



]6fl ' Jell}- Sauce 14 

■2J;i I Lemon Saiioe H 

:3i Sj-racuKe Sauce 21 



STCK ROOM COOKERY. 

Beef and Sago Broth 10 

Chicken Broth li> 

P^fTgNog la 

FfajtBeed Lemonade 10! 

Arrowroot Gruel «! 

Iniliin Meal Gruel !) 

Oftf meal Gruel » 

Plain Gruel 9 

Bice Gruel 9 

Arrowroot Jelly 0' 

Imitation Asaes' Milk 9 

Panada 9 

Beef Sandwiches 10 

Ue.*teak Tea 10 

I^uisa's Beef Tea » 

Mrs. Miller's Beef Tea 9: 

Old Fashioned Beef Tea ft 

To.i.st Water : 10 



