





NYPL RESEARCH LIBRARIES 
















































3 3433 07897562 4 




1 I 




THE OFFICIAL HANDBOOK FOT? 

NATIONAL TRAINING 
FOR COOKERY 

< 

CONTAINING 

* 

THE LESSONS ON COOKERY 



WHICH CONSTITUTE 



frc dumrse -of $mtmdwn in the 

u '* -^ o 



WITH 



LISTS OF UTENSILS NECESSARY, AXD LESSONS OX 

CLEANING UTENSILS. 



COMPILED BY R. O. C. 

AND TESTED IN THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL. 



' The number of inhabitants who may be supported in any country, upon its internal 
produce, depends about as much upon the state of the Art of Cookery, as upon that of Agri- 
culture, but if Cookery be of so much importance, it certainly deserves to be studied with the 
greatest care. Cookery and Agriculture are arts of civilized nations : Savages understand 
neither of them." Count 



LONDON - 
CHAPMAN AND HALL, 193, PICCADILLY. 



' \3 



[A/I rights resei"ve3. ] 

/Vl \\ 




LONDON : 
BRADBURY, AGN'E\V, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS. 



. 



. 



V. 



. 



, 

'. .'" /', ; 

. * t 

V ..*.'; 
. . 



PREFACE. 



I. THIS work has been written to explain in an 
easy way the first principles of good Cookery, and 
in the form of lessons is especially addressed to 
those who wish to carry them into practice. It has 
been the aim of the writer to leave no detail, 
however small, vaguely stated. It is taken fcr 
granted that the learner has no knowledge on the 
subject. The loose expressions, such as " a pinch," 
" a little," found in all cookery books, are therefore 
avoided, and precise quantities are given. 

II. The work is not to be regarded as an exhaus- 

o 

tive cookery book with numerous recipes. It aims 
to be rather a grammar than a dictionary. 

III. The lessons give a sufficient number of 

o 

examples of cookery illustrating many degrees of 
cost : thus the rich may have a dish of curried rabbit 
for $s. Sd., and the poor may have a dish of curried 
tripe for iof^. 



iv Preface. 

IV. The work has been used and tested in the 
National Training School for Cookery since 1875, 
and the instructors now employed in local schools 
throughout the country have been taught and prac- 
tised by means of these lessons. 

V. It has been found that it is most convenient 
to practise the lesson with the instructions in sight 
close at hand. An edition of each lesson has been 
printed on separate sheets of thick paper, for the 
use of students and teachers, which may be obtained 
at the National Training School for Cookery, or at 
any of the local schools. 

VI. The writer requests that the notice of any 
errors and omissions which are inevitable in a work 
of this kind may be communicated to R. O. C., 
at the National Training School for Cookery, Exhi- 
bition Road, London, S.W. 

R. O. C. 

JULY, 1877. 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

PREFACE I 

LISTS OF UTENSILS 7 

LIST OF CLEANING MATERIALS II 

LESSONS ON CLEANING 12 

LESSONS ON COOKERY 17 

INDEX ............ 405 



LIST OF UTENSILS REQUIRED IN A FIRST 
CLASS SCHOOL KITCHEN, 

AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. 

LIST NO. I. 

& d. 

3 copper stewpans, varying in size from 3 pints to 3 quarts . i 18 6 
3 enamelled stewpans, sizes from I pint to 2 quarts . ..096 

1 copper sautepan, \is.\ 12 iron saucepans, sizes from I pint 

to 2 gallons, i 2s. gd. i 14 9 

Iron pot for boiling 096 

Stock pot, to hold 8 quarts . . . . . ..0150 

Frying pan 020 

Iron omelet pan o i o 

Fish kettle 086 

Frying basket and pan . 080 

Copper preserving pan . . . . . . . .150 

2 gridirons 090 

Best brass bottle jack 0150 

Block tin screen and dripping pan 136 

Steamer and saucepan . . . . . . . .086 

Weights and scales, to weigh from joz. to 14 Ibs. . ..190 

Coffee mill, i 2s.; i marble mortar and hardwood pestle, 

i $$ - .270 

6 kitchen knives, js. yd.; 3 kitchen forks, 5 s o 12 9 

j 2 iron spoons, 4^. ; 6 wooden spoons, various sizes, i s. 6d. 056 
i fish slice, is. i egg slice, ^d. . . . . ..019 

3 larding needles, 2s. ^d. ; i trussing needle, gd. . . .030 

i set of skewers, 2s. ; i corkscrew, is 030 

i flour dredger, is. 6d. ; i sugar dredger, 2s. . . .036 

i paste board, 3^. 6d. ; i chopping board, y. 6d. . ..070 

i rolling pin, is. 6d. ; i cutlet bat, $s. 6d. . . . .050 

i chopper, 3 j. 6d. ; i saw, 4^. 6d. . . . . ..080 

i box of fluted cutters, 4^. 6d. ; i box of round cutters, 3^. 6d. 080 
i box of vegetable cutters 056 

1 egg whisk, is. 6d. ; i grater, is 026 

2 flour tubs, or i double bin 090 

2 cake tins, 2s. ; i coffee pot (French), to hold 3 pints, 4^. 6d. 066 

Cany forward. . . . ,18 4 9 



8 National Training School for Cookery. 

s. d. 

Brought fonvard . . . .1849 

2 block tin jelly moulds, sizes i pint and i quart . ..060 

2 white china moulds, sizes i pint and i quart . . .016 

1 iron kettle, to hold 3 quarts, js. 6d. ; 3 baking sheets, ~s. 6rf. 015 o 

2 Yorkshire pudding tins, sizes i pint and i quart . .026 
2 tartlette pans, and 12 patty pans . . . . ..030 

2 soufflee tins, sizes i pint and i quart . . . . .030 

2 strainers, for gravy, &c. $s. ; i silk sieve, 2s. . . ..070 

2 wire sieves, 6s. ; 4 hair sieves, various sizes, los. . .0160 
i seasoning box, $s. ; i spice box, 2s. ^d. . . . . . o 7 3 

i tin cullender, is. 6d. ; toasting fork, is. . . .026 

i paste brush, is. ; i steel, is. . . . . . ..030 

i string box and scissors, 4^. 6d. ; i basting ladle, 2s. . .066 

i jelly bag and stand, 9.?. 6d. ; i tammy cloth, 2s. yf. . . oil 9 

6 pudding basins, sizes from -i pint to 3 pints . . .036 

12 basins (8 common, sizes from i quart to 4 quarts, and 4 

lip basins, from i quart to i gallon) . . . . o 14 a 
6 dishes, 5^. ; 6 pie dishes, sizes from i pint to 2 quarts, 5^. o 10 o 
24 plates, 8s. ; i salting pan, to hold 3 or 4 gallons, 4^. 6ct. . 012 (> 
i bread pan and cover, 3^. ; i cheese pan and cover, y. . . o 6 o 

3 wooden trivets, various sizes . . . . . .026 

i black board for lectures (size about 5 feet by 4 feet) ..250 
Kitchen range ..... . from ^9 to 10 o o 

Gas stove ........ from 12 to 14 o o 

Frymometer (for testing the heat of fat for frying) . .0106 
Frymometer [Cetti's, 11, Brooke Street, Holborn], for testing 

the heat of the oven for baking ..... o 10 6 
Fitting frymometer in the oven door . . . . .050 



^ 9 3 



LIST OF UTENSILS REQUIRED IN A -SECOND 
. CLASS SCHOOL KITCHEN, 

AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. 



LIST No. 2. 

5 iron saucepans and covers, sizes I pint, lipint, i quart, 

quart, and 4 quarts . . . 
i iron saucepan and steamer ...... 

i gridiron 

i frying pan 

i iron kettle 

i tin cullender 

i Yorkshire pudding tin 

i baking tin 

i paste board 

i rolling pin 

i brass bottle jack 

i tin roasting screen and ladle 

i coal scuttle 

i coal shovel 

i cinder sieve 

i set fire irons 

6 iron spoons 

6 knives and forks 

3 wooden spoons 

6 tea spoons 

6 basins, various sizes 

3 pudding basins 

3 pie dishes 

6 dishes, various sizes 

12 meat plates 

Seasoning box 

i toasting fork 

i dust pan 

i salt cellar, is. ; i pepper box, 6d 

i mustard pot and spoon 

i hand bowl 

Carry forward . 



* <* 



o 


9 


I 





6 


O 


o 


I 


8 


o 


I 


6 


o 


H 


6 





I 


o 





o 


10 


o 


I 


o 


o 


4 


o 


o 


I 


6 





10 


o 





19 


6 


o 


3 


6 


o 


o 


9 





2 


3 





3 


6 


o 


2 


o 


o 


12 











6 


o 


I 


6 





2 


6 





I 


o 





I 








5 


o 





4 


6 


o 


4 


6 


o 


i 





o 


o 


IO 


o 


i 


6 


o 


*> 


6 





2 


o 



13 



io National Training School for Cookery. 



Brought forward . . .51311 
i steel ........... 020 

1 dish tub . . . ....... 040 

2 brown pans .......... 020 

3 jugs ........... 020 

i meat saw .......... 020 

i chopper .......... 023 

Scales and weights ......... 046 

i corkscrew . . . ....... 016 

i grater . . . ........ oio 

i coffee pot, 2s. 3^. ; i tea pot, 3 j. ..... o 5 3 

i cake tin ... ..... ..oio 

i flour tub . . . . . . . . . .026 

Black board for lectures (size about 5 feet by 4 feet) ..250 
vSmall range ........ about 212 6 

12 i 5 



LIST OF CLEANING MATERIALS AND UTENSILS 

REQUIRED, 

AND THEIR AVERAGE COST. 

J. <? 
i pail, wooden 036 

Scrubbing- brush o 



o 



Set of blacklead brushes 04-6 

Sweep's brush oio 

Flue brush .... 016 

Sink brush 009 

Sieve brush 009 

Dust pan and brush 046 

Broom (hair) 036 

Bass broom 020 

2 tubs, 4s. 6d. each 090 

i hearthstone 006 

i box of blacklead . . . . . . . . .006 

Whitening ooi 

Rottenstone ooi 

Bath brickdust .001 

\ quire emery cloth 009 

6 IDS. of soda 007 

i bar of scrubbing soap o o 1 1 

Sand 006 

Salt .006 

White chalk 002 

i yard of house flannel 006 

i leather oio 

i pair of gloves 009 

i coal shovel 030 

i cinder sifter 026 

i dust pan and coal hammer 063 

i coal scuttle 046 

i set of fire irons 0106 

3 6 8 



LESSONS ON CLEANING STOVES, GRATES, AND 

KITCHEN UTENSILS. 

TO CLEAN AN OPEN KITCHEN RANGE. 

1. We should rake out all the cinders and sift them into 
a scuttle for use. 

X.B. All the dust should be thrown away. 

2. We take a sweep's brush and sweep down all the soot 
from the flues and oven. 

3. We mix some pounded black lead in a gallipot with 
enough water to make it into a smooth thick liquid. 

4. We dip the black lead brush in the mixture, and 
black-lead the whole of the range, beginning from the top 
of the stove, by the dampers, and then downwards. 

5. When the black lead is dry we brush it all over with 
a dry brush. 

6. We then take another brush and polish the range all 
over, so as to make it quite bright. 

N.B. The bars of the stove should be done in the same way. 

7. We take the sweep's brush and sweep the remaining 
soot and dust from the stove and the hearth. 

8. We polish the steel handles and bolts of the oven by 
rubbing them with emery paper. 

9. The brass handles and bolts we should polish with 
bath brickdust and a leather. 

10. We get a flannel and a pail of hot water, put in it 
some soda, and wash the hearth all over. 

N.B. We must not wet it too much. 

11. We take a hearthstone and rub it all over the hearth. 



Lessons on Cleaning. 



IS. V\*e then wring the flannel out in the hot water, 
and smooth the hearth over, rubbing it lightly all in one 
direction. 

13. We must black-lead and polish the inside of the 
fender in the same way as we did the range, and brighten 
the rim of it by rubbing it with emery paper. 

Now it is finished. 



TO LAY A FIRE. 

1. We should place a few sifted cinders at the bottom 
of the grate. 

2. We then put in a piece of crumpled paper, and 
arrange the sticks over it, laying them across each other. 

3. We now put a few pieces of coal on the top, rather to 
the front, so as to leave a good draught at the back to 
draw the fire. 

4. When the fire is lighted and has burned up a little 
we can add more sifted cinders mixed with the coal. 

5. We should only put small quantities of coal and 
cinders on the fire at a time. 

Now it is finished. 



TO CLEAN A CLOSE KITCHEN RANGE. 

1. We proceed in the same way as for an open range 
(see notes I and 2), 

2. We must now take down the doors of the flues at the 
back of the range, and take off all the lids of the flues over 
the oven and boiler. 

3. We take the turk's head or flue brush, push it care- 
fully up each flue at the back, so as to sweep them as clean 
as possible. 

4. We must then put it in the flues above the oven and 
boiler, and sweep all round. 



14 National Training School for Cookery. 

5. We should pull out the drawer just below the oven, irt 
which we shall find the soot has fallen. 

6. We empty all the soot away and sweep out the drawer 
clean. 

7. We now take the sweep's brush and sweep down the 
range. 

8. We black-lead, polish the range, and clean the hearth 
and fender as described for an open range (from note 3 to 
end). 

9. We take down the iron plate-rack across the top of 
the range, and rub the bars with emery cloth. 

10. We should dust the fire-irons, and if the}' are rusty, 
they should be rubbed with emery cloth or oil and leather. 

Now it is finished. 



TO CLEAN A GAS STOVE. 
1. We require the same materials as for a kitchen 



range. 



2. We lift out the bars at the top, and rub them with 
emery cloth until they are quite clean and bright. 

3. We wash the top of the stove with a flannel dipped in 
hot water and soda, so as to remove all grease and dirt ; 
we then wring out the flannel, and partially dry the top of 
the stove. 

4. We now black-lead and polish it in the same way as 
for the kitchen range. 

X.R. We must be careful not to stop up the gas holes with black lead. 

5. We place the bars back over the stove. 

6. We polish the brass handles of the gas burners with 
bath brickdust and a leather. 

7. We wash the tiles round the stove with the flannel, 
hot water, and soda. 

8. We dry them with a cloth. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cleaning. 15 



TO CLEAN AN IRON SAUCEPAN. 

1. We should wash the saucepan well in hot water and 
soda. 

N.B. All the black should be removed from the outside and bottom. 

2. We must soap the palm of one hand, and rub the 
inside of the saucepan. 

N.B.- In washing any greasy utensil it is best if possible to use the hand 
instead of a flannel, as the latter retains the grease and so keeps putting 
the grease on again instead of rubbing it off. 

3. We mix some sand and powdered soda together, and 
then dip the soap into it and rub the inside of the saucepan 
until it is quite clean and bright. 

4. We now rinse it in water and dry it with a cloth. 

5. We should clean the lid in the same way. 

N.B. A white enamelled stewpan is cleansed in the same way, great care 
should be taken to remove all the stains off the white enamel inside. 

N.B. Salt might be mixed with the sand and used to remove the stains from 
the enamel. 

Now it is finished. 



TO CLEAN A COPPER STEWPAN. 

1. We mix some sand and salt together on a plate, half 
the quantity of salt to that of sand. 

2. We wash the stewpan well in hot water and soda. 

3. We soap the hand, dip it in the salt and sand, and 
rub the inside of the pan until all stains are removed and it 
has become clean and bright. 

4. We rinse it out well in the water, dry the inside 
quickly, and then turn over the pan and clean the copper 
outside. 



1 6 National Training School for Cookery. 

5. We should rub it in the same way with a soaped hand 
dipped in sand and salt. 

N.B. If there are many stains on it, an old half lemon or vinegar might 

be used to remove them. 
N.B. Only the copper part should be cleaned \\ith lemon or vinegar. 

6. We now rinse it again thoroughly, and dry it quickly 
with a cloth. 

Now it is finished. 



LESSONS ON COOKERY, 



ROASTING. 

Now we will show you how to roast meat at an open 
range, but first we must see that the fire is clear and 
bright. 

1. We must take the shovel and put it in at the back of 
the fire and push all the red hot coals to the front. 

2. We put fresh coal at the back, packing it together 
rather closely, but taking care that we leave a draught at 
the back, to draw the fire and make it burn clear and 
bright. 

3. We must fill in all the spaces in the front of the fire 
with small lumps of coal or coke. 

N.B. If it be a close range with which we are dealing, we should pull out 
the centre damper only, which will create a draught at the back, and 
help to draw the fire up quickly. 

4. We now take our joint, say a leg of mutton. 

5. We must see that it is quite clean, and, if necessary, 
we must scrape it with a knife and wipe it over with a 
clean cloth. 

N.B. Meat should not, as a rule, be washed in water, as it takes some of 
the goodness out. If meat has been kept some time and is not quite 
fresh, then you might wash it with a little vinegar and water, but it must 
be well wiped afterwards. 

6. We take the leg of mutton and with a sharp knife cut 
off the knuckle bone. 

N.B. The knuckle bone we put aside ; it can be used with beef for beef tea, 
or be put in the stockpot, or the trimmings and one pint of water will 
make gravy for the joint when done, allowing it to simmer while the 
joint is roasting. 

B 



1 8 National Training School for Cookery. 

7. We trim off the piece of flank and remove the thick 
piece of skin from the part where the leg joins the loin. 
(These trimmings must be put aside, as they can be used 
for other purposes.) 

8. We must now weigh the leg of mutton, so as to find 
out how long it will take to roast it, as a quarter of an 
hour is allowed for each pound of weight, and one quarter of 
an hour besides. 

N.B. When \ve have a joint -without bone, such as rolled ribs <>f beef or 
topside of beef , we must allow twenty minutes to each pound of weight, 
as it is all solid meat. 

9. We take the leg of mutton, which weighs say sewn 
pounds, it will therefore take two hours to roast. 

10. We put the roasting screen in front of the fire to 
keep off the draught and keep in all the heat. 

11. We put the dripping pan clown on a stand within the 
screen, close to the fire, with the dripping ladle. 

12. We hang the roasting jack up from the mantelpiece 
i)ver the dripping pan. 

X.B. Some roasting screens contain the dripping pan and the jack, which 
are of course more convenient. 

13. We take the hook of the roasting jack and pass it 
through the kmtcklc-cnd of the leg. 

14. We must wind up the jack with the key, before we 
put the joint on, so as to make it twist the meat round. 

15. We must put the joint close to the fire for \\\Q first 
'c minutes. 

16. After that time we can draw the joint a little further 
back, or it will cook too quickly and become burnt and dried. 

N.B. Meat that is frozen must be placed some way from the fire at first, 
and then drawn gradually towards it, as it must thaw slowly or it may 
become tough. 

17. We must baste the joint every five minutes with the 
drippings that run from it into the pan, using the dripping 
ladle. 

18. We let the joint roast for two hours, as its weight is 
seven pounds. 

19. After that time, and just before we dish up the 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Roasting. 19 

joint, we must sprinkle about a saltspoonjul of salt over it, 
and then baste it well. 

20. We must take a large dish and warm it well. 

21. Now we can take the hook of the jack, and place the 
joint on to the hot dish, and draw out the hook. 

22. We take about a gill of hot stock and pour it into the 
dish. [This makes the gravy, and when the joint is cut, 
the juices from the meat will add to it.] 

23. We must take a piece of demy paper and cut it like 
a fringe. This we put round the end of the knuckle bone. 

X.B. The dripping in the pan should be poured into a basin, and when it is 
cold there will be under the crust of dripping a good gravy. When the 
dripping is required for use it must be carefully removed from the top 
of the gravy, and clarified. (See Lesson on " Frying.") Nearly all 
joints can be roasted in this way. Attention should be paid to the rules 
explained above concerning joints of meat without bone. 

Now it is finished. 



H 2 



2O National Training School for Cookery. 



BOILING. 



Now we will show you how to boil meat. 

1. We must give attention to the fire, and build it up 
gradually with small pieces of coal, so as to make it burn 
clear and bright. 

2. We must not have a smoky fire for boiling, or the 
meat will get smoked, we should start with a good fire, 
and keep it up by adding occasionally small coal, and so 
prevent smoke as much as possible. 

X. B. We do not require such a clear bright fire as for roasting. 

3. We now take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold 
the joint to be cooked. 

4. We fill the saucepan almost full of cold water, and 
put it 011 the fire to warm. 

X.B..S0// should always be added to the water in the saucepan to make 
the water taste, unless the meat to be cooked is already salted, in which 
case it should be omitted. 

5. We now take the joint, say, for example, a piece of 
the silver side of beef salted. 

6. We must see that it is quite clean, and if necessary 
we must scrape it with a knife, and wipe it over with a 
clean cloth. 

X.B. Meat should not as a rule be washed in water, as it takes some of the 
goodness out. J/iv/ that lias been kept some time, and is not quite 
fresh, might be washed with vinegar and water, but it must be well 
wiped afterwards. 

X.B. Salt meat must not be washed with vinegar and water, but only with 
salt and water. 

7. We must now weigh the piece of salt beef, so as to 
find out how long it will take to boil, as ten minutes are 
allowed for each Ib. of meat. 

X.B. This rule refers to the boiling of all meat except pork, which requires 
fifteen minutes to each Ib. of meat. 

A. In boiling meat to be eaten the joint should be first plunged into boiling 
water, in order that the albumen on the outside of the joint may become 
hardened, and so prevent the escape of ihejiticrs of flic meat. 

B. The temperature of the water should then be lowered gradually (by 
adding a small quantity of cold water and drawing the saucepan to the 
side or the fire), and the meat allowed to simmer gently, or it svill become 



tough. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Boiling. 21 

C. In boiling meat for the purpose of making soup, the meat should be put 
into cold water, in order to extract all the goodness from the meat. 

D. The water should be brought gradually to boiling point, then moved to 
the side of the fire, and left to simmer gently for some length of time. 

N.B. Salt meat must be put into warm water, so as to extract a little of 
the salt before the pores of the skin are closed up ; if the meat were put 
into boiling water the pores of the skin would be closed, and the meat 
would be hardened by the salt not being allowed to escape. 

8. When the water in the saucepan is warm, we take the 
beef, which weighs, say, eight pounds (it will therefore take 
about one hour and twenty minutes), and put it in the sauce- 
pan; there should be only just enough water to cover the 
joint. 

9. We let the water just boil up, and then we should 
move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
gently for the remainder of the time. 

10. As soon as the water comes to the boil we must 
take a large spoon and skim the water carefully. 

N.B. The scum should be skimmed off directly it rises, or it will boil down 
again in the meat and spoil it. Scum is the impurity which rises from 
the meat. 

N.B. We must be very careful not to let the meat boil, or it will be 
hardened and tough. 

11. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, we take it 
carefully out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish for 
serving. We pour about a gill of the liquor (in which it was 
boiled) round the joint (this makes the gravy, and when 
thej'oint is cut the juices from the meat will add to it). 

N.B. The liquor from toiled meat can always be used for different pur- 
poses, and should therefore never be thrown away, but poured into a 
clean basin and put aside to cool, the fat should be carefully removed 
from the top of the liquor, while it is cold, before being used. Salt 
liquor is often used for making pea soup. 

Now it is finished. 



22 National Training School for Cookery 

BAKING. 

Meat, Bread, Pastry, &c. 



Now we will show you how to bake meat. 

1. We must have z. good fire, and keep it up, adding by 
degrees small pieces of coal, as the oven is required to be- 
very hot. 

N.B. --If it is a close range with which we are dealing, we should pull out 
the damper placed over the oven in order to draw all the hecit of the fire- 
towards the oven. The ventilator of the oven should be closed. 

N.B. In kitchen stoves there is usually either a handle at the top of the 
oven, to be pulled out for opening the ventilator, or a slide ventilator 
at the bottom. 

2. We should test the /leatof the oven by the thermometer 
which is fixed in the door of the oven, the heat should rise 
to 240 Fahrenheit 

3. We take the joint, see that it is clean, as directed in 
" Lesson on Roasting," Note 5, and weigh it, so as to find 
out how long it will take to bake, as ten minutes are allowed 
for each pound of weight. 

N.B. When we have a joint without bone we must allow about fifteen 
minutes to eac\\ pound of weight, as it is solid meat. 

4. We take the hot water tin, on which the stand for the 
meat is placed, lift up the upper tin or tray and fill the 
under tin Jialf full of warm water, we then fit on the 
upper tin. 

N.B. In one corner of the upper tin is a small hole or escape for the steam. 
The water below must o\\\\ just reach this hole, and not come into it. 

N.B. The water is placed in the tin to prevent the //// and the meat from 
getting burnt, and so causing a disagreeable smell. 

5. We place the stand on the Jiot water tin to raise the 
joint and prevent it from standing in its own dripping, 

which would sodden and spoil the meat. 

6. We now take the/0*;//, which weighs say seven pounds 

(it will therefore take one Jiour and ten minutes to bake], 
and put it on the stand. We should dredge flour over it. 

7. We put the //;/ with the meat in the oven. The oven 
should be kept very hot for the first five minutes, in order to- 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Baking. 23 

form a brown crust on the outside of the joint, to keep in 
the juices of the meat. After that time the ventilator of 
the oven should be opened, so as to allow the steam- to 
escape, or the meat would get soddened. 

N.B. Meat that is frozen must be gradually warmed, to thaw it before 
shutting it up in the hot oven, or it would be tough. 

8. We must baste \hejoint every fifteen minutes with the 
drippings that run from the meat into the pan, using the 
dripping ladle. 

N.B. Joints that are not \eryfat must be even more frequently basted, or 
they would burn : if there is not sufficient dripping from the meat, a 
little extra dripping should be put into the pan. 

N.B. Joints that have no fat should be covered with a piece of ivhitey brown 
paper which has been spread with butter or dripping it will prevent the 
meat catching too quickly. 

9. We should turn the joint over occasionally, as the 
upper side will get browned quicker than the lower. 

N.B. Potatoes, washed and peeled, or a small suet or dripping and flour 
pudding (see " Puddings," Lesson No. 28), or a Yorkshire pudding (see 
" Puddings," Lesson No. 29), might be baked under the meat, but they 
should only be put in half an hour before the meat is finished. 

10. Just before we dish up the/0/xtf, we should sprinkle 
about a saltspoonful of salt over it, and then baste it well. 

11. We serve the joint on a hot dish (as described in 
" Lesson on Roasting," Note 22, and act with regard to 
the dripping according to the " N.B." after Note 23.) 

N.B. Pastry or bread, &c., should not be baked in the oven at the same 
time as the meat, as the steam would prevent their baking properly. 
For baking small patties and tartlets made of Pttjff Paste, the heat of 
the oven should rise to 300 Fahrenheit. For meat pies, tarts, &c.. 
the heat should rise to 280. For bread the heat should rise to 280, 
and must be reduced after a quarter of an hour to 220. 



Now it is finished, 



24 National Training School for Cookery. 

FRYING. 

And Lessons on Clarifying Butter, Fat, and Dripping. 

The principles of frying. 

1. We must have a clear bright fire. 

N.B. We must be very careful it is not smoky. 

2. We should be careful that the utensil used is very 
clean, for if there is anything sticking at the bottom of the 
pan, it will quickly catch or burn, and so spoil the contents. 

3. We should clarify all fat (not lard), dripping, and 
butter, before using them, to remove the impurities from 
the former, and the butter-milk, and other water)" sub- 
stance, from the latter. 

N.B. Fat need not he clarified more than once. After using it \ve should 
always pour it off carefully in a basin, and when it is cold \ve should 
remove the sediment from the bottom of the cake of fat. Butler must 
be clarified each time it is used, to remove all watery substances. 

4. We must have the/*?/ very hot ; good frying depends 
on the fat being properly heated. 

5. We should test the heat of the fat by a frimometer, 
if possible ; the heat should rise to 345 degrees Fahrenheit 
for ordinary frying, and 400 degrees for ichitcbait. 

X.B. If there is no frimometer, the heat of the fat may be tested by the 
look as/// gets quite still and begins to smoke when it is very hot or 
by throwing in a small piece of crumb of bread, and if it fries directly a 
light brown, the fat is ready for use. 

6. We should use a deep pan with plenty of fat, so that 
anything put in may be entirely covered. 

7. We can fry bacon in its own fat, it only requires 
watching and turning till it is done (see Lesson on " Liver 
and Bacon," from Note i to Note 5). 

8. We can fry chops or steaks, or slices of meat, in either 
an oz. of clarified dripping or butter. 

9. We should melt the fat first, but it does not require 
to be heated. 

10. We must be watchful, when the meat is frying, not 
to allow it to burn ; we should turn it over occasionally. 

N.B. If there is a gridiron it is much better to grill chops and steaks, as it 
prevents their being greasy (see Lesson on a "Grilled Steak"). For 
frying Fish, see "Fish," Lessons Nos. 3, 6, j, and 13. For frying Meat, 
Rissoles, Potatoes, &c., see "Cooked Meat," Lessons Nos. 2 and 6; 
" Australian Meat," Lesson Xo. 8 ; " Entrees," Lessons Nos. 4 and n ; 
and " Vegetables," Lessons Nos. 3 and 4. 



Lessons on Frying and Clarifying Fat. 25 

To render down or clarify fat. 

1. We take any scraps of cooked or uncooked fat, and cut 
them up in small pieces. 

2. We put the pieces in an old but clean saucepan, and 
pour in just enough cold ivater to cover them. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire and keep it boiling ; 
it will take about an hour, the lid should be off the saucepan. 

4. We must stir \.\\Q fat occasionally, to prevent It from 
burning or sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 

5. When the water has evaporated, and the pieces of fat 
are cooked, we should pour the melted fat through an old 
sieve into a basin, and when cold it can be used for all 
frying purposes instead of lard. 

To clarify dripping. 

1. We should put the dripping in a saucepan, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

2. When it boils we pour it into a basin in which there 
should be half a pint of cold water. 

3. When the dripping Is cold, we take a knife and cut 
round the edge, so as to take out the cake of dripping. 

4. We should scrape off all the sediment that will be 
found on the bottom of the cake, and wipe it dry with a cloth. 

To clarify butter. 

1. We put the quantity of butter required for present use 
in a small saucepan, and put it on the fire and let it boil. 

2. When the butter has boiled, we must take a spoon 
and remove the white scum from the top. 

3. We should then pour the clear butter carefully into 
the pan for use, as below the butter will be a little more 
watery substance. 

Now it is finished. 



26 National Training School Jor Cookery. 

COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. i 

HASHED MEAT. 

Average cost of " Haslied Meat." 

o 

INGREDIENTS. 

. 

1 lb. of scraps of cold meat and bone ........ 6 

2 small onions .............................. i 

i carrot .................................... 

i a turnip .................................. { 

i bunch of herbs (consisting of i bay leaf, a j 

sprig of marjoram, thyme, parsley,) .... / 4 

About a tablespoonful of flour ............ ; 

i dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup ...... I 

Sippets of bread .......................... \ 

Salt and pepper .......................... ; -4 

i an oz. of butter ........................ ) 



Time required, about /:;<' hours ; or, if the stock for the gravy is already 
made, then only half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to Hasli Cold Meat. 

1. We take any remains of cold meat, cut off all the meat 
from the bone, and cut it into thin slices. 

2. We chop the bone in pieces and put them into a 
saucepan. 

3. We take one onion, peel it and cut it in quarters. 

4. \Ve take one carrot, wash it, scrape it, and cut it in 
quarters. 

5. We take half a turnip, peel it, and cut it in half. 

6. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a 
cloth. 

7. We take one bay leaf, one sprig of marjoram and 
thyme, and the parsley, and tie them tightly together with 
a piece of string. 

8. We put the herbs and the vegetables into the saucepan 
with the bones, and pour in enough cold water to cover 
them. 



Lessons on Re- Cooking Meat. Hashed Meat. 27 

9. We put the saucepan on the fire and when it boils we 
should add pepper and salt, according to taste. 

10. We now put the lid on and move the saucepan to 
the side of the fire to stew gently for one hour, or one Jwur 
and a half ; we should watch it and skim it occasionally. 

11. We take a small onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 

12. We put half an ounce of butter into a frying pan. 

13. We put the pan on the fire, and when the butter is 
melted we add the sliced onion, and let it fry a nice brown. 

14. We must shake the pan occasionally to prevent the 
slices of onion from sticking to the bottom of the pan and 
burning. 

15. When the onion is sufficiently browned, we strain off 
the butter and put the onion on to a plate. 

16. When the bones have stewed long enough, we should 
strain off the liquor into a basin. 

17. We wash out the saucepan and pour back the liquor. 

18. We put a tdblespoonful of Jlour into a small basin. 

19. We add a tablespoonful of the liquor to the flour and 
stir it into a smooth paste. 

20. We stir this paste gradually into the liquor in the 
saucepan. 

21. We also add the browned onion and a dessertspoonful 
of mushroom ketchup. 

22. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the sauce 
until it boils and thickens. 

23. We let it boil for two or three minutes, until \hzflour 
is cooked. 

N.B. We should be careful to stir the sauce smoothly while it boils, or it 
will be lumpy. 

24. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
and when it is off the boil we lay in the pieces of meat to 
warm through. 

N.B. We must not let the sauce boil while the meat is in it, or the meat 
will get hard and tough. 

25. We cut a thin slice of bread, and cut it into square 
pieces. 



28 National Training School for Cookery. 

26. We cut these square pieces in half, cornenvise, mak- 
ing the pieces into triangles. 

27. We put one ounce of clarified dripping (see Lesson on 
<l Frying ") in a frying pan to melt. 

28. When the dripping is quite hot we put in the sippets 
of bread, and let them fry a light brown. 

29. We should turn them, so that they get browned on 
each side. 

30. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate, and 
when the sippets are fried we turn them on to the paper to 
drain off the grease. 

N.B. If liked, the bread could be toasted before the fire instead of fried ; 
in which case the bread should be cut into sippets after it is toasted. 

31* For serving, we put the slices of nicat on a hot dish, 
in the centre, strain the sauce over them and put the sippets 
of bread round the edge of the dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Re- Cooking Meat. Meat Fritters. 29 

COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. 2. 

MEAT FRITTERS. 

Average cost of " Meat Fritters" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Slices of cold meat 6 

6 oz. of flour i 

i tablespoonful of salad oil ) 

Salt / 



2 eggs 



Dripping for frying J 

10 

Time required, about half an hour (and one hour for the batter to rise). 



Now we will show you how to make Meat Fritters, i.e. 
frying meat in batter. 

1. We put six ounces of flour and half a saltspoonful of salt 
into a basin. 

2. We add a tablespoonful of salad oil and mix the flour 
into a smooth paste. 

N.B. We must be careful that the oil is quite sweet. If oil is objected to, 
one ounce of melted butter can be used instead. 

3. We now stir in smoothly by degrees, half a pint of 
tepid water ; we must be careful that there are no lumps. 

4. We break two eggs, put the whites on a plate (the 
yolks we should put in a cup, as they will not be required 
for present use). 

5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the 
whites of the eggs, and whip them to a stiff froth with a knife. 

6. We stir the whipped whites of the eggs lightly into the 
batter. 

N.B. In winter, clean snow might be used in the batter instead of the whites 
of eggs. 

N.B. This batter might be made without the whites of eggs, in which case 
it should be mixed with half a pint of beer, instead of the water, but the 
batter made with beer will not rise as much as when eggs are used. 

N.B. The beer will not taste after the batter is fried. 



30 National Training School for Cookery. 

7. We stand the batter aside for one hour to rise, or 
until required for frying, but it should not stand longer 
than two hours. 

8. We put half a pound of clarified dripping (see Lesson 
on " Frying ") into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to 
heat. 

9. We take some cold meat, and cut it up into thin slices. 

N.B. Cold boiled, or roast pork, or boiled bacon is very nice fried in 
Kittcr. 

10. When the batter has risen and the fritters arc re- 
quired for use, \ve stir the batter lightly with a spoon, so as 
to be sure that there arc no lumps settled at the bottom. 

11. When the dripping is quite hot and smoking, we take 
the slices of meat, dip them in the batter so that they are 
quite covered, and then drop them into the hot fat. 

N.I'.. Wr must not put in too many slices at a time, as they should not 
touch each other. 

12. We must turn them over so that they are fried a 
nice brown on both sides. 

13. We put a piece of kiteJien paper on a plate. 

14. As the fritters are fried, we take them carefully out 
of the fat with a perforated spoon, and put them on the 
paper to drain off the grease. 

N.R We must l>e careful to skim flic fat from time to time, or the little 
loose : of batter will burn and spoil the fat. 

N.I'. Slices of apple or orange can lx? fried in this batter in the same way, 
only that the batter should be sweetened, and sugar sprinkled over the 
fritters when they are fried. 

N.B. Fish can be fried in batter the same way, only that the batter is 
usually made with beer instead of white of egg. 

15. For serving, we turn the fritters on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat --Goblet Pie. 31 
COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. 3. 

GOBLET PIE. 

Average cost of a " Goblet Pie? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Any scraps of cold meat 

2 tablespoonsful of chopped suet ij 

2 do. of moist sugar 

2 do. of currants 

2 do. of plums 

2 do. of chopped apples 

5 lb. of flour \ % 

5 of a teaspoonful of baking-powder j 

i oz. of dripping 



4l 



Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a " Goblet Pie." 

N.B. This pie is made with equal quantities of ingredients. 

1. We take any scraps of cold meat (the smallest scraps 
would do that would not do for anything else), put them 
on a board, and chop them up as finely as possible (there 
should be about two tablespoonsful of chopped meaf)* 

2. We take about two ounces of suet, put it on a board, 
cut away the skin, and chop it up very finely (there should 
be about two tablespoonsful). 

3. We take tivo small apples, peel them, cut out the core, 
and chop them up finely (there should be about two table- 
spoonsful). 

4. We take two tablespoonsful of plums, stone them, and 
chop them up in small pieces. 

5. We take tiuo tablespoonsful of currants, wash them, 
dry them in a cloth, and pick them over. 

6. We put all these ingredients into a basin with two 
tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and mix them all well 
together with a spoon. 

7. We then turn the mixture into a small pie dish. 



3 2 National Training School for Cookery. 

8. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin, and 
mix into it a few grains of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonfut 
of baking poivdcr. 

9. We take one ounce of clarified dripping and rub it well 
and lightly into \hzflour with our hands, until it resembles 
sifted bread crumbs. 

10. \Ve now add to it sufficient water to mix it into a 
stiff paste. 

11. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 

12. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste 
to the shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to 
about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 

13. We wet the edge of the pie dish with water. 

14. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut a strip of the 
paste, the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it 
round the edge of the dish. 

15. We should cut this strip of paste from round the edge 
of the/tf.r/V, leaving the centre piece rather larger than the 
top of the pie dish. 

16. We wet the edge of \\\z paste with icatcr. 

17. We take the remaining piece of paste, and place it 
over the pie dish, pressing the edges together with our 
thumb. 

N.B. We must be very careful not to break the pa^lc. 

18. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and trim off all the 
rough edges of \\icpastc, round the edge of the dish. 

19. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we 
make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the 
paste firmly with our thumb, to keep it in its proper place. 

20. We make a little hole with the knife, in the centre of 
the pic to let the steam out while the/z> is baking. 

21. We put the pie into the oven (the heat should rise to 
220), to bake for half an hour. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat. Curry. 
COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. 4. 

CURRY. 

Average cost of a " Curry" (made with cold meat). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Scraps of cold meat 6 

2 oz. of clarified dripping i 

(or butter 2<1.) 

i .apple \ 

i onion ^ 

i dessertspoonful of curry powder ) 

Salt / 



Time required, about three quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Curry. 

1. We put two ounces of clarified dripping or butter into a 
saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat. 

2. We take one onion, peel it, put it on a board, and chop 
it up as finely as possible. 

3. When the dripping is quite hot we put in the chopped 
onion to brown ; we must be careful it does not burn. 

4. We should shake the saucepan occasionally to prevent 
the onion from sticking to the bottom. 

5. We take the cold -meat and cut it up into small pieces. 

6. We take one small apple, peel it, take out the core, and 
chop it up very finely on a board. 

7. When the onion is sufficiently brown we should straiK 
it off, and pour the dripping back into the saucepan. 

N.B. We should put the browned onion on a plate, 

8. We now put the pieces of cold meat into the saucepan, 
and let them brown on both sides. 

9. We add one dessertspoonful of curry powder, the chopped 
apple, and a little salt, according to taste. 



34 National Training School for Cookery. 



10. \\'e now pour in half a pint of cold water, and put 
back the browned onion. 

N.P>. If the onion had been left in while the meat was browning, it would 
have got burnt. 

11. \Ve should stir smoothly and carefully until it boils, 
and then move it to the side of the fire to simmer for half 
an hour. 

12. The lid should be oft" the saucepan as the sauce is to 
reduce. 

13. Kor serving we take the meat out of the saucepan 
and put it on a hut dish and pour the sanee over it. 

N.I 1 .. /' v'.W rice should be served with the curry (<ee Lesson on " Rice "). 

\<>w it is finished. 



Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat --Shepherd's Pie. 35 

COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. 5. 

SHEPHERD'S PIE. 

Average cost of a " Shepherd's Pie'' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Scraps of cold meat ........................ 6 

i small onion ............................ | \ 

Pepper and salt ....... ; .................. j 

i i Ib. of potatoes .......................... iv 

i oz. of butter .............................. i 

i a gill of milk .............................. 



Time required, about an hour and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Shepherd's Pie. 

1. We take one and a Jialf pound of potatoes, wash them, 
and boil them as described (see " Vegetables," Lesson No. i.). 

N.R. This quantity of potato will cover a quart pie dish. 

N.B. Any remains of cold potatoes should be used instead of boiling fresh 



ones. 



2. We put one ounce of butter and half a gill (one gill is 
a quarter of a pint) of milk into a saucepan, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

3. We put the boiled potatoes into another saucepan, and 
mash them up with a fork or spoon. 

4. When the milk boils we pour it into the mashed 
potatoes, and stir them into a smooth paste. 

5. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the potatoes 
just boil ; we must be careful they do not burn. 

6. We take any scraps of cold meat, cut them in small 
pieces, and put them in a pie dish in layers. 

7. If there is not much fat with the meat, we should mix 
a few slices of pork fat with the meat. 

8. We take one small onion, peel it, and chop it up as 
.finely as possible on a board. 



c 2 



36 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We sprinkle each layer of meat with plenty of pepper 
and salt, and a little of the cJiopped onion. 

10. We fill the dish half full of cold water. 

^ : .]'>. If there is any cold gravy it would, of course, be better thnn the 
water. 

X.I'.. The pie dish should be quite full of meat, and rather heaped in the 
centre, so as to raise the crust of potato. 

11. We take the mashed potato and put it over the top of 
the meat, smoothing it over neatly with a knife. 

12. We take a fork, and mark all over the top of the 
potato. 

N.B. If liked, the mashed /<>/<//<> might be mixed \\ith h:ilf its \\eightof 
Mour into a dough, to make a more s;ib~i.uitial crust; it mu>t be then 
rolled out with a rolling-pin like pastry. 

13. We put the pic dish into the oven, or into a Dutch 
oven in front of the fire, for half an hour, to brown the crust 
'.)f potaio and warm the meat through. 

Xow it is finished. 



Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat. Fried Rissoles. 37 

COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. 6. 

FRIED RISSOLES. 

Average cost of " Fried Rissoles " made of cold meat. 
(This quantity makes about 8.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Scraps of cold meat, 2 oz i 

2 tablespoonsful of 'chopped suet i 

2 do. of bread crumbs i 

2 clo. of chopped parsley v 

1 tablespoonful of chopped herbs, marjoram | 

and thyme / 

2 eggs 2 

Crumb of bread I 

Salt and pepper j 



Use of dripping for frying 



6V 
Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Rissoles with cold 
meat. 

1. We put about half a pound of clarified dripping into 
a saucepan and put it on the fire to heat. 

2. We take some scraps of cold meat, and chop it up as 
finely as possible on a board, when chopped there should 
be about two tablespoonsful. 

3. We take two ounces of suet, put it on a board, cut 
away the skin and chop it up as finely as possible. There 
should be two tablespoonsful. 

4. We take a grater and grate some crumbs of bread on 
to a piece of paper. 

X.B. More than two tablespoon sful of bread crumbs will be required, as 
the rissoles should be dipped in bread crumbs before they are fried. 

5. We take two or three sprigs of parsley, wash it and dry 
it in a cloth. 

6. We put the parsley on a board and chop it up finely ; 
there should be two tablespoonsful. 

7. We take a sprig of marjoram and a sprig of thyme, 



38 National Training School for Cookery. 



take away the stalks and rub the leaves through a strainer, 
or chop them up finely on a board. 

N.H. The sfu Iks of the herbs are bitter to taste, and can therefore only l>e 
used for flavouring and not for eating. 

8. \Ye put the meat, suet, and tico tablespoonsful of bread 
crumbs into a basin and mix them together. 

9. \Ye no\v add the Jicrbs and a teaspoon/til of salt. 

X. I>. If liked, a little chopped onic>n or chopped lemon peel might be added. 

10. We break one egg into the basin and mix all together 
lightly. 

11. \Ye take a board, flour it. and turn the mixture on 
to it. 

12. We also Hour our hands, to prevent the mixture from 
sticking. 

13. We form the mixture into little balls, and \ve should 
sprinkle a little four over them. 

14. We break an egg on U a plate, and beat it very 
slightly with a knife. 

15. We put the balls into the egg and egg them well all 
over. 

16. We now put them into the bread crumbs and cover 
them well, but not too thickly. 

N.I'.. \\Vim: refill to finger them as little as possible. 

17. We put the rissoles into a frying basket, a few at a 
time, as they must not touch each other. 

18. When the fat in the saucepan is quite hot and 
smoking, we put in the frying basket and let the rissoles 
fry a pale brown. 

19. If there is not sufficient fat to cover the rissoles, we 
must shake the basket occasionally, that they may get 
fried on all sides alike. 

N.R. If there is no fr\ ing-basket, \ve should carefully put the rissoles into 
the/// 1 with a ^poon, and then we must turn them over, so as to g-t 
them equally browned. 

20. We put a piece of kitchen paper on a plate. 

21. When the rissoles are fried, we turn them carefully 
on to the paper to drain off the grease. 

22. For serving, we put them on a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Re-Cooking Meat. Minced Meat. 39 

COOKED MEAT. 

LESSON No. 7. 

MINCED MEAT. 

Average cost of " Minced Meat" with rice or potatoes. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
Scraps of cold meat -, 3 

1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ) 

Pepper and salt j 

2 lb. of Patna rice or i Ib. of potatoes i\ 



!. 



- Time required to cook the potatoes, half an hour ; to cook the mince, five minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Mince of cold 
3 meat. 

1. If the mince is served with rice (see Lesson on u Rice "), 
or if with mashed potatoes (see " Vegetables," Lesson No. 2). 

2: We put any scraps of cold meat on a board, and mince 
it up with a sharp knife. 

3. We put the minced meat into a saucepan with about a 
tablespoonful (or enough to moisten the mince) of mush- 
room ketchup, or some gravy, and season it with pepper and 
salt to taste. 

4. We put the saucepan on the fire to let the mince just 
warm through. 

5. We should stir it occasionally, to prevent the meat 
from sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 

6. For serving we turn the mince on to a hot dish, with a 
border of boiled rice or mashed potato. 

Now it is finished. 



4O Xational Training School for Cookery. 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. i. 

MULLIGATAWNY. 

Average cost of " 'Mulligatawny Soup* (3 quarts) made 

from "Australian Meat." 

INGREDIENTS. 

tf. 

2 Ib. tin of Australian calf's head .......... i o 

2 Ibs. of Australian mutton .............. i 2 

2 apples ................................ o i 

2 ler!^ .................................. O I 



2 carrots, r turnip ........................ o \\ 

2 g> iod-sixc'd onions ...................... o i 

2 tablespoonsful of iluir ................ ( 

i tablespoonful of curry powder ........ o i 

- ' :unl si:L,'.ir ........................ ' 

A bouquet <^.\: I [ o 1 

.............. j 

2 



we will show you how to make Mulligatawny S 

1. \\'c take a tin of Australian mutton and open it care- 
fully. 

2. \\'e take a spoon and carefully remove all the fat 
from the top of the meat. 

N.I'.. . .<niM only !>< rvnmvrd from that j art of the meat which is 

[Hired for immcdiuti- i. 

N.B. The/// should lie clarified, l.y jmtting it into boiling \\ater, and 
when cold can then be used a.-, dripjiing. 

3. \\'e take tico pounds of tJic mutton out of the tin, put 
it in a basin with tico quarts vf -icarm icatcr. 

4. \\'e take tico apples, peel them, and put them on a plate. 

5. We cut the apples in quarters, cut out the core, and 
tnen cut the quarters into slices, and put them into a sauce- 
pan with ti^'o ounces of tJic clarified fat. 

6. \Ve take one turnip and two good-sized onions, peel 
them, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and give one stir to 
the vegetables with a wooden spoon. 



Lessons on Australian Meat.- -Mulligatawny. 

8. We take two leeks, wash them well in cold water, and 
cut off the green tops of the leaves. 

9. We cut the leeks up and put them in the saucepan. 

10. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them with a 
knife, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 

11. We give one stir with a wooden spoon to mix the 
vegetables together, and let them fry for ten minutes. 

12. We also add a sprig" of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a 
sprig of marjoram and two bay-leaves, tied tightly together 
with a piece of string. 

13. When the vegetables have fried for ten minutes we 
take half a pint of the liquor (in which the meat is soaking),, 
pour it into the saucepan, and let it boil and reduce to a. 
quarter of a pint. 

14. We should stir the vegetables occasionally. 

15. We put two tablespoonsful of flour and one tablespoon- 
fnl of curry powder into a basin, and mix them into a 
smooth paste with one gill (quarter of a pint) of the liquor. 

16. We stir this mixture into the saucepan with the 
vegetables. 

17. We now put the meat and the remaining liquor into 
the saucepan, put the lid on and let it come to the boil. 

18. When it boils we should put one saltspoonful of salt 
and half a saltspoonful of moist sugar into the saucepan. 

19. We now move the saucepan to* the side of the fire 
and let it simmer for two /tours and a half. 

20. We should watch it, and skim it occasionally with a 
spoon. 

21. After that time we strain off the soup through a 
strainer into a basin. 

22. We pour the soup back into the saucepan. 

23. We open the two pound tin of calf's head, remove 
all the fat from the top, and stir the contents of the tin 
into the soup in the saucepan. 

24. For serving we pour the soup into a hot soup-tureen. 

Now it is finished. 



42 National Training School for Cookery. 



AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. 2. 

BROWN PUREE. 

Average cost of " Jlrowu Puree" (i pint and a half) made 
from "Australian Mince Meat'.' 

INGREDIENTS. 

if. 

1 lb. of Australian miner meat o 7 

2 carrots ami i Miiall turnip o i I 

slicks o i 

,cks of celery o i 

i onion, stuck will) 4 < j 

A boiKjurt garni 5, thxnif, f 

and marjoram i i 

A ^; .r g of par-ley ' 

i teaspoonful of Liebig's extraci o i 

i o| 
Time / 



Now we will slmw you how to make a Hrwn l^nrcc. 

1. \\"e take a tin of Australian -wince meat and open it 
carefully. 

2. \Ye take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from 
the top of the meat f 

X.I'.. The /;/ should only be removed from that part of the mc<it \\hieh is 

required for immediate i. 
N.B. The/;// 1 should \K clarified by putting it into boiling \vater, and \\hrn 

cold can then be ' drip])ing. 

3. \Ye take out one pound of meat, scrape off the jelly 
(which we put aside), and put the meat in a mortar. 

4. \Ye pound the meat well with a pestle. 

5. We put t:<.v quarts of water into a saucepan, and put 
it on the fire to boil. 

6. We take two carrots, wash them, and scrape them 
with a knife. 

7. We take two leeks, cut off the outside green leaves, 



Lessons QJI Australian Meat. Brown P2irde. 43 

wash them thoroughly in cold water, and cut them in 
-quarters. 

8. We take two sticks of celery, wash them, and scrape 
them clean with a knife. 

9. We tie these vegetables into a small bundle with 
string. 

10. We take one small turnip and peel it. 

11. We take an onion, peel it, and stick /#;/r cloves in it. 

12. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in all these vegetables. 

13. We also add a bouquet garni, consisting of two bay 
.leaves, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, tied tightly together. 

14. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in cold water, 
wring it in a cloth, and put it in the saucepan. 

15. We take the jelly which came from the meat, and a 
little more out of the tin, and put it in the saucepan. 

16. We also stir in one teaspoonful of Liebig's Extract, 
or ten or twelve drops of caramel (see note below) for 
colouring. 

17. We let the vegetables boil gently for one hour and a 
half. 

X.B. The lid should be on the saucepan. 

18. After that time we stir in the pounded meat, and 
season according to taste. 

19. \Ve take a cullender and strain tine puree through on 
.to a hot dish. 

N.B. For making caramel (browned sugar) for colouring gravies, &c. We 
put a quarter of a pound of moist or loaf sugar into an old saucepan, and 
put it on the fire and let it burn until it has become quite a dark brown 
liquid ; we add to it half a pint of boiling water and let it boil for five 
minutes, stirring it occasionally ; we then strain it, and pour it in a 
bottle, and it is ready for use at any time. ]_ 

Now it is finished. 



44 National Training School for Cookery. 



AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. 3. 

IRISH STEW. 

Average cost of " fris/i S/ezc," made from Australian Meat, 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i \ 11 >s. of Australian meat roV 

1 1 lb. of potatoes il 

\ 11). of onions T 

i i 
. <il\'Ht <'//< 



X)\v we will show vou how to make an Irish 

J 

1. We wash one and a half pound of potatoes well in 
cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 

N.I'. It" i t very i,'ood, or arc in any way diseased, \\r 

should take a sharp knife, \-<-\ them, and carefully cut out the IT, 

any /'/,/</ ! I'mut t . but it i-> much better to steam or 

boil them in their sk: 

2. \Ve take a potato steamer, fill the saucepan with hot 
water, and put it on the fire to boil. 

3. \\'e take Jialf a pound of onions and peel them. 

4. When the water is quite boiling we put fas. potatoes in 
the steamer, and sprinkle them over with salt. 

N.P). As the onions are to be mien uith the potatoes, \ve put them in 
saucepan of boiling \\ater, and they can be boiled \\hile the potatoes 
being steamed. 

5. We place the steamer on the saucepan of boiling 
water, and cover it down tight to keep the steam in. 

6. We let \\\z potatoes steam, and the onions boil, for half 
an hour. 

7. We take a tin of Australian meat and open it carefully. 

8. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from 
the top of the meat. 

X.B. The fat should be clarified, by putting into boiling water, and when 
cold can then be used as dripping. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Irish Stew. 45 

9. We take one and a half pounds of meat out of the tin 

and cut it in slices. 

10. We should take a fork and put it in \\\Q potatoes and 
the onions to feel if they are quite tender. 

11. When they are sufficiently cooked, we take the 
potatoes out of the steamer, put them on a board, peel 
them carefully, and cut them in slices. 

12. We take the onions out of the saucepan, put them 
on a board, and cut them in slices. 

13. We take a large saucepan, put in a layer of potatoes, 
then a layer of onions, and then a layer of meat. 

14. We should sprinkle a little pepper and salt over each 
layer of meat for seasoning. 

15. We pour half a pint of warm water into the saucepan, 
put it on the fire, and let the meat and vegetables simmer 
until they are thoroughly warmed through. 

16. For serving we turn the Irish Stew out on to a hot 
dish. 

Now it is finished. 



46 National Training School for Cookery. 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON Xo. 4. 

SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Average cost of " Sausage Rolls " (about two dozen) made 
from '' Australian Mince Alcat." 

INGREDIENTS. 

' Ib. of mince meat 3 ' 

i lb. of flour 

\ lb. of dripping 4 

it* -'il ot 1 M king pimdi-r j 

S : ing : \ 

' 

i egg i 

1 1 

Time rC'/nircJ, //.///"./// //<///. 



\u\v we will show you how to make Sausage Rolls. 

1. We take a tin of Australian mince meat and open it 
carefully. 

2. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from 
the top of the meat. 



N.I'.. Thr fat should be clitrificJ by putting it into a basin of boiling \\atcr, 
and \\lu-n cold can then !< u.-'-d as dn])])ini;. 

3. \\'e take half a ponnd of the mince meat out of the tin, 
put it in a basin, and season it well \\\\\\ pepper and salt. 

4. We take four sage leaves, put them on a board, and 
chop them up as finely as possible with a knife. 

5. We mix the chopped sage well into the mince mcat\\\\.\\ 
a spoon. 

6. We put one pound of flour into another basin. 

7. We add to it one teaspoon ful of baking poicder, salt 
(as much as would cover a threepenny piece], and half a 

pound of clarified dripping. 

8. We rub the dripping well into \\\G flour with our hands.. 

N.B. We must mix it thoroughly, and be careful not to leave any ///;/;/>.. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Sausage Rolls. 47 

9. We add enough water to the flour to make it into a 
stiS. paste. 

10. We flour the paste board. 

11. We turn \.\\Q paste out on the board. 

N.B. We should divide \\\t paste in two, so as not to handle it too much. 

12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out each 
portion into a thin sheet, about one-eighth of an inch in 
thickness. 

13. We cut \\\Q paste into pieces about six inches square. 

14. We should collect all the scraps of paste (so that 
none is wasted), fold them together, and roll them out and 
cut them into squares. 

N.B. There should be about two dozen squares of paste. 

15. We should put about a tablespoonful of the mince 
meat into the centre of each square of paste. 

16. We fold \\-\Q paste round the meat, joining it smoothly 
down the centre, and pressing the ends of the paste together 
with our finger and thumb. 

17. We take a baking tin, grease it well, and place the 
sausage rolls on it. 

18. We break one egg on to a plate, and beat it slightly 
with a knife. 

19. We take a paste brush, dip it in the egg, and paint 
over the tops of the rolls. 

20. We place the tin in a hot oven to bake for 15 
minutes. 

X.B. We should look at them once or twice, and turn them if necessary, so 
that they shall be equally baked. 

21. For serving we take the rolls off the tin and place 
them on a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



48 National Training School for Cookery. 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON Xo. 5. 

CURRIED RABBIT. 

Average cost of " Curried Australian Rabbit" 

INGREDIENTS. 

. d. 

2 lb. tin of Australian rabbit i o 

2 oz. of butter or dripping o i 

2 moderate si/.ed onions o i 

i good sixed apple o o} 

i dessertspoonful of curry po\vder I 

Salt and flour '. i 

1'atna r . ed with the cum o i' 



J'imc required^ 

Xow \vo will show you how to make a Curry of Austra- 
lian Rabbit. 

1. \Ve take a tico pound tin of rabbit and open it carefully. 

N.l'.. Any other u\it could \ fur th- , :/rry instead of the rabbit. 

2. We take a spnon and carefully remove all the/atf 
from the top of the meat. 

N.l 1 .. The /"/ should !>< ,/', y putting it into a basin of boiling \\ater ; 

when cold can ! u>i-d as dripping. 

3. \Ve put tico ounces of butter or clarified dripping into 
a stewpan. N 

N.B. If the f.if from the rabbit has been clarified in time, it can be iiM-d 
instead of the butler or dripping. 

4. We put the stewpan on the fire to heat \\\z fat. 

5. We take tico moderate sized onions, peel them, and 
cut them in slices. 

6. When ihcftjf is quite hot, we put in the onions to fry 
brown. 

N.R. We must watcli it, and stir the onions occasionally, and not let them 
burn or stick to the bottom of the pan. 

7. We turn the rabbit out of the tin on to a plate. 

8. We take a good sized apple, peel it, take out the core, 
and chop it up as finely as possible. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Curried Rabbit. 49 

9. When the onions are sufficiently browned we take all 
the pieces carefully out of the stewpan with a perforated 
spoon, and put them on a plate. 

10. We take the pieces of rabbit, dry them in a cloth, 
and sprinkle them over well withfaur. 

11. We now put the pieces of rabbit into the stewpan to 
fry a nice brown. 

12. We must turn the pieces occasionally so as to let 
them brown on both sides alike. 

13. We put a dessertspoonful^)/ curry powder into a cup, 
and mix it into a smooth paste with a little cold water. 

14. When the rabbit is browned, we put the chopped 
apple and the fried onion into the stewpan. 

15. We stir in smoothly the curry paste, and then add 
half a pint of cold water or stock t and salt according to 
taste. 

16. We give one stir with a spoon and mix it all together. 

17. We now put the lid on the stewpan, draw it rather 
to the side of the fire, and let it stew very gently for about 
a quarter of an hour, until the apple is quite tender. 

18. We must boil the rice as directed. (See Lesson on 
" Rice.") 

19. For serving, we turn the curry on to a hot dish, the 
rice can be put as a border on the same dish as the cuny, 
or served on a separate dish. 

i 

Now it is finished. 



D 



50 National Training School for Cookery. 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. 6. 

MEAT PIE. 

Average cost of a " Meat Pic" (a quart dish) made from 
Australian mutton or beef and kidneys. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 
\ \ lb. of Australian mutton or beef ........ o io| 

5 lb. Do. kidneys .............. o 3$ 

: , ( lb. of flour ............................ o i : j 

1 lb. of dripping ....................... o 2 






, 



i teaspoonful of baking powder 
pepper and salt ...................... ) 

i 6 
Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pie. 

1. \Ve take a tin of Australian mutton or beef and open 
it carefully. 

2. We take a spoon and carefully remove the fat from 
the part of the meat which is required for use. 

X.H. All the/// should not be removed, as the meat not required for imme- 
diate use will keep better with the//? 1 on the top ; but a tin of Austra- 
lian meat will not keep more than two or three days after it has once 
been opened. 

3. We take a tin of kidneys, open it carefully and remove 
the f af from the part of the meat which is required for use. 

N.B. The/// should be clarified, by putting it into boiling water, and 
when cold can then be used as dripping. 

4. We take one and a Jialf ponnd of the meat (mutton or 
beef] out of the tin and cut it neatly into nice sized pieces, 
and season the pieces with pepper and salt. 

5. We take half a ponnd of the kidneys and cut them up 
in pieces. 

6. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin 
with a small teaspoonful of baking powder and salt (to- 
co ver thinly a threepenny piece). 

7. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping and 
rub it well into thejfiour with our hands. 

N.B. We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Meat Pie. 51 

8. We add sufficient water to make it into a stiff paste; 
It will take rather less than one gill (quarter of a pint). 

9. We take a board, flour it, and put the paste on it. 

10. We take a quart pie-dish and fill it with the pieces 
of meat and kidney. 

11. We take a little of ti\e jelly out of the tin and put it 
in the dish with the meat, to make the gravy. 

12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste 
to the shape of the top of the pie-dish, only rather larger. 

N.B. We should keep our hands floured, to prevent the paste sticking. 

13. We take a knife, dip it in the flour, and cut off a 
strip of the paste about one inch wide. 

N.B. This strip should be cut off from round the edge of ihe paste, leaving 
the centre piece the size of the top of the pie-dish. 

14. We wet the edge of the pie-dish with water, and 
place the strip of paste round the edge. 

15. We now wet the strip of paste on the pie-dish. 

16. We take the piece of paste, lay it over the top of the 
pie-dish, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 

17. We take a knife, flour it, and trim off the rough 
edges of the paste. 

18. We take the knife, and with the back of the blade, 
we make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing it 
with our thumb, to keep it in its proper place. 

19. We should make a small hole in the centre of the 
paste, to let out the steam, whilst it is baking. 

20. We can ornament the top of the pie with the remains 
of the paste, according to taste. 

21. We put the pie into a quick oven to bake for half an 
hour. 

22. We must look at it occasionally, to see that it does 
not burn. 

Now it is finished. 



I) 2 



52 National Training School for Cookery. 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. 7. 

FRICASSEE OF MUTTON. 

Average cost of "Fricassee of Mutton" made from Aus- 
tralian meat. 

INGREDIENTS. 

*. d. 

2 Ibs. of Australian mutton i 2 

2 oz. of butter o j 

i \ ox. of flour | i 

] Vpper and salt I 

i doz. mushrooms o 4 

cad o 

About i pint of milk o 2 

i IT 
Timer ', ,//','/// half <.in 



Now we will show you how to make Fricassee of Mutton. 

1. \Ve put ti(.'o ounces of butter into a saucepan and put it 
on the fire. 

2. \Vhen the butter is melted, we stir in one and a Jialf 
ounce of flour, and a \\tt\Qpepper and salt according to taste. 

3. \Yc now pour in tJircc quarters of a pint of cold milk, and 
stir smoothly with a wooden spoon, until it boils and 
thickens. 

4. \Ye take one dozen of mushrooms, peel them, and cut 
off the end of the stalks. 

5. We add these mushrooms to the sauce and let them 
stew gently, until they are quite tender. 

6. We take the/r*/ and stalks of the mushrooms, wash . 
them in cold water and put them in a small saucepan, with 
about a gill of milk. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it stew gently, 
to extract \hz flavour of the mushrooms. 

8. We take a tivo pound tin of mutton, open it carefully, 
and remove all the fat from the top of the meat with a spoon. 

X.B. Theyfr/ should be clarified by putting it into boiling \vater, and when 
cold can then be used as dripping. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Fricassee. 53 

9. We turn the meat out of the tin and cut it in small 
pieces. 

10. We cut a thin slice of crumb of bread, put it on a 
board, and cut it up in small square pieces. 

11. We cut these square pieces in half, cornerwise, mak- 
ing them into triangles. 

12. We put three ounces of clarified dripping into a frying 
pan and put it on the fire to heat the fat. 

13. We take a piece of kitchen paper and put it on a 
plate. 

14. When the/<?^ is quite hot and smoking, we throw in 
the sippets of bread and let them fry a pale brown. 

15. We then take them out of the frying pan, and put 
them on the piece of paper to drain off the grease. 

16. We sprinkle a little salt over the sippets, and keep 
them warm till required for use. 

17. W T hen the rmishrooms are sufficiently cooked, we 
should strain the milk (in which the mushroom peelings 
were stewed) and stir it smoothly into the sauce. 

18. We draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
when the sauce is a little cooled, we put in the -slices of 
mutton and let them just warm through. 

N.B. We must be careful that the meat does not boil, or it will be hardened. 

19. We now take out the pieces of meat and put them 
on a hot dish. 

20. We pour the sauce over the meat, and arrange the 
mushrooms in the centre. 

21. We place the fried sippets of bread round the edge of 
the dish. 

Now it is finished. 



54 National Training School for Cookery. 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON KG. 8. 

RISSOLES, 

Average cost of " Rissoles," made from Australian meat. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

lb. of Australian meat ^V 

\ lb. of flour 1 1 

4 O7.. of dripping 2 

Salt and pepper ( ; 

A few sprigs of dried herbs j 

1 egg i 

2 oz. of vermicelli or some bread crumbs . . . . ) , 
Clarified dripping (for frying) / 

!! 

Time required, one hsur. 



Now we will show you how to make Rissoles of 
A ustralian meat. 

1. We put one pound of clarified dripping into a saucepan 
and put it on the fire to heat. 

N.B. We must watch it and be careful it does not burn. 

2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin with salt (to 
cover thinly a threepenny piece) > and four ounces of clarified 
dripping. 

3. We rub the dripping well into \\izflonr with our hands, 
until it is quite a powder. 

4. We then add a little cold water and mix it into a stiff 
paste. 

5. \\ J Qjftour a board and turn ftie paste out on to it. 

6. We take a tin of Australian meat, open it carefully, 
and with a spoon remove all the fat off the part of the 
meat required for immediate use. 

N.B. The/af should be clarified by putting it into boiling water; and 
when cold can then be used for dripping. 

7. We take half a pound of meat out of the tin and scrape 
off as much of \.\\Q jelly as possible. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Rissoles. 55 

8. We put the meat on a board and chop it up as finely 
as possible. 

N.B. Minced meat might be used, which would not of course require 
chopping up. 

9. We take a small bunch of dried herbs and rub the 
leaves into a powder. 

N. B. The stalks of the herbs need not be thrown away, as they can be used 
in soups for flavouring. 

10. We sprinkle the herbs over the meat, also a little 
pepper and salt, and a \tiX\sflour. 

11. We take a rolling pin and roll out the paste as thin as 
possible. 

12. We cut the paste into rounds with a cutter (which 
should be dipped in flour) ; the rounds should be rather 
larger than the top of a tea-cup. 

13. We put some meat into the centre of each round of 
paste. 

14. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it up 
slightly with a knife. 

15. We take a paste-brush, dip it in the egg, and just wet 
the edges of the paste with the egg. 

16. We fold the paste carefully over the meat, pressing 
the edges together with our thumbs. 

17. We take two ounces of vermicelli and rub it between 
our hands, crushing it up as finely as possible. 

18. We put this crushed vermicelli on to a piece of 
paper. 

19. We put the rissoles into the plate of egg, and egg 
them well all over with the brush. 

20. We then turn them into the crushed vermicelli, and 
^over them well with it but not too thickly. 

X.B. We must be careful to finger them as little as possible, so as not to 
rub off any of the egg or vermicelli, or the rissoles will burst while frying. 

N.B. Bread crumbs might be used instead of vermicelli. 

21. We take a frying basket and put in the rissoles ; we 
.must be careful that they do not touch each other. 

22. When the fat in the saucepan is quite hot and 



56 National Training School for Cookery. 

smoking, we put in the frying-basket and let the rissoles fry 
for a minute or two until they have become a pale brown. 

23. We take a piece of kitchen paper and put it on a 
plate. 

24. As the rissoles are fried we turn them from the fry- 
ing-basket on to the piece of paper to drain off the grease. 

25. We then put them on a hot dish and they are ready 



for serving. 



Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Savoury Hash. 57 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. 9. 

SAVOURY HASH. 

Average cost of a "Savoury Hash" made from Aus- 
tralian Mutton. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 
i J Ib. of Australian mutton o zoj 

1 oz. of butter o i~ 

2 oz. of flour 

I an onion . 

SOT 

\d. of mixed pickles, or i teaspoonful of ' 



vinegar 



i dessertspoonful of chopped herbs ) L 

Pepper and salt J 

i dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup .... o o\ 

Time required, about ten minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Savoury Hash. 

1. We put one ounce of butter into a saucepan and put it 
on the fire to melt. 

2. We take half au onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 

3. We put the onion into the butter. 

4. We also stir in half an ounce of flour, and let all fry 
for a minute or tivo to brown. 

5. We take a tin of Australian mutton, open it carefully, 
and remove the fat from the part of the meat required for 
immediate use. 

N.B. We should clarify the fat by putting it into boiling water, and when it 
is cold it can be used as dripping. 

6. We take one and a half pound of the mutton out of the tin. 

7. If all the meat is required for present use, we should 
turn it all out of the tin, and we should then rinse out the 
tin with half a pint of warm ivatcr to make the gravy for 
the hash. 

N.B. If all the meat has not been taken out of the tin, \ve should take some 
of the jelly out of the tin, and melt it in half a pint of warm water to. 
make the gravy. 



58 National Training School for Cookery. 

8. We pour this gravy into the saucepan with the flour 
and butter, and stir well until it boils and thickens. 

9. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire to 
keep warm. 

10. We take a halfpenny worth of mixed pickles, and chop 
them up finely. 

11. We stir the chopped pickles or a teaspoonful of vinegar 
into the sauce. 

X.H. If the flavour of the pickles or the vinegar is disliked, they might be 
omitted. 

12. We take a sprig or two of parsley (wash it and dry it 
in a cloth), and a sprig of marjoram and tliymc, take away 
the stalks, and chop up the leaves finely on a board. 
(There should be about a dessertspoonful.) 

13. We cut the meat up into neat pieces, and sprinkle 
over each piece some of the chopped herbs and a little pepper 
and salt. 

14. We put the meat into the saucepan of sauce and let 
it just warm through for about five minutes. 

15. We now pour into the sauce a dessertspoonful of 
mushroom ketchup. 

16. For serving we put the meat on a hot dish and strain 
the sauce over it. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Australian Meat. Mince. 59 
AUSTRALIAN MEAT. 

LESSON No. 10. 

MINCE. 

Average cost of "Mince" served with "Mashed Potatoes" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i lb. of Australian mince meat .............. 6 

ij lb. of potatoes .......................... i J 

i oz. of butter .............................. i 

I gill of milk .............................. i 

i tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ...... ) 

Salt and pepper .......................... j 



10 



Time required, about forty minutes. 



Now w r e will show you how to make a Mince served with 
Mashed Potatoes. 

1. We take one and a half pound of potatoes, wash them well 
in cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 

2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut 
out the eyes and any black specks about the potato. 

3. We put them into a saucepan with cold water, enough 
to cover them, and sprinkle over them one tcaspoonful of 
salt. 

4. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil the potatoes 
for from twenty minutes to half 'an hour. 

5. We should take a fork and put it into the potatoes to 
feel if the centre is quite tender. 

6. When they are sufficiently boiled, we drain off all the 
water, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, with 
the lid half on, to steam the potatoes. 

7. We put one ounce of butter and one gill (quarter of a pint) 
of milk into a small saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 

8. When the potatoes have become quite dry, we should 
take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a piece of 
paper on the table. 



60 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We should mash them up smoothly with a spoon or 
fork. 

N.B. The best way to mash potatoes is to nib them through a wire sieve ; 
we can then be sure there are no lumps left. 

10. When the ;/////' boils we should pour it into the 
masJicd potatoes, and stir it till it is quite smooth. 

11. We add pepper and salt according to taste. 

12. We stand the saucepan of masJied potatoes by the side 
of the fire to keep warm until required for use. 

13. We take a tin Q{ Australian mince meat, open it care- 
fully, and remove all the fat from the part of the meat 
required for immediate use. 

N.B. This fat should be clarified by putting it into boiling water, and when 
cold it can be used as dripping. 

14. We take one pound of the mince out of the tin, put it 
in a saucepan with one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup > 

and stir it into a paste. 

15. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the mince 
just warm through. 

N.I 1 .. Wr should be very careful that it does not boil, or the meat will get 
hardened. 

16. 1 'or serving we make a wall of the mashed potatoes 
round the edge of a hot dish, and we pour the mince in the 
centre ; we should stand the dish in front of the fire to 
colour the potato a pale brown. 

Xo\v it is finished. 



Cooking Meat. --(Entrees).- Indian Ciirry. 6 

ENTREES. 



LESSON No. i. 

CURRY. 

Average cost of a u Curry (Indian} of Rabbit" &c. 

INGREDIENTS. 

*. (L 

1 rabbit or chicken, etc ................. 2 6 

Half an ounce of coriander seed ....... 

2 cloves of garlic ..................... 

1 dessertspoonful of turmerick ......... 

8 berries of red pepper ............ ... 

2 inches of the stick of cinnamon ..... 

6 cardamomums ..................... 

A small piece of green ginger, about the 

size of a nut ........................ > 

5 small onions . ..................... I 

Salt ................................ j 2 

3 ounces of fresh butter .................. o 3! 

Half a pint of cream or good milk ........ i o 

Thejuice of half a lemon ................ o i 



Time required, about huo hours. 




Now we will show you how to make a Curry. 

1. We take a rabbit [which has been skinned and pro- 
perly prepared for cooking] and put it on a board. 

2. We cut it up in the same way as for carving, thus : 
taking care that the pieces are nearly all of one size. 

N.B. Chicken, veal, and other meats would serve the purpose for curry as 
well as rabbit. 

3. We take a quarter of an ounce of coriander seed, put it 
Into the mortar and pound it very finely with a pestle. 

4. We take the pounded seed out of the mortar and put 
it on a piece of paper ; we must scrape out the mortar 
cleanly so that none be lost. 

5. We take two cloves of garlic, peel them with a sharp 
knife and place them in the mortar. 

6. We also put into the mortar a dessertspoonful of tur- 
merick. 



62 National Training School for Cookery. 

7. We add eigJit berries of red pepper and one incJi of the 
stick of cinnamon. 

8. We put in four cardamomums. 

9. We take a piece of green ginger about the size of a 
nut and slice it very thinly. 

10. We take three small onions and peel off the two outer 
skins. 

11. We divide the onions into quarters and place them 
and the sliced ginger in the mortar. 

12. We must no\v pound up all these spices and the 
onions as finely as possible with the pestle. 

13. We now add to them the pounded coriander seed and 
mix them all up together. 

14. We turn all this pounded mixture out of the mortar 
into a half-pint basin. 

15. We take a tcacupfnl of cold water and rinse out the 
mortar, and then pour the water on to the pounded mixture 
in the basin. 

16. We take the pieces of rabbit and wash them in cold 
water. 

17. We take the pieces of rabbit out of the cold water 
and place them on a sieve to drain. 

18. We take a stew-pan and put in it three ounces of fresh 
butter. 

19. We put the stew-pan on the fire to melt the butter. 

N.B. We must be careful that it does not burn. 

20. We take two small onions and peel off the two outer 
skins. 

21. We divide the onions in half down the centre, and 
cut them up so that the slices are in half circles. 

22. We put these sliced onions into the melted butter,. 
we add also two cardamomums and let them fry a pale 
brown. 

23. We then take the onions carefully out of the stew- 
pan with a slice, and place them on a piece of whitey-brown 
paper to drain off the grease. 



Cooking Meat. (Entries}. Indian Curry. 63 

24. We now take the basin of spices, and add as much 
cold water as will make the basin three parts full. 

25. We add to the basin of spices a small dessertspoon- 
ful of salt. 

26. We now pour all the contents of the basin into the 
melted butter in the stew-pan, to cook for about twenty 
minutes, stirring well all the time with a wooden spoon. 

N.B. To test when the spices are sufficiently cooked, you should smell 
them, and if they are quite done, no particular spice should predo- 
minate. 

27. We now place the pieces of rabbit in the stew-pan 
to brown. 

28. We must turn the pieces of rabbit occasionally so- 
that they get brown on all sides. 

29. We now pour into the stew-pan a teacupful of cold 
water to make the meat tender. 

30. We put the lid on the stew-pan, and let it all cook 
steadily for about an hour. 

31. We must watch it carefully, and stir it perpetually. 

N.B. A good deal of stirring is required. 

32. We must add by degrees a teacupful of cold water, 
to wash down the bits of spice which will stick to the sides 
of the stew-pan. 

33. We must also add by degrees, half a pint of cream, or 
good milk \watcr might even be used instead] and mix it 
well together with a wooden spoon. 

N.B. We must be careful that no pieces of meat or spices stick to the 
bottom of the pan. 

34. We now take half the fried onions, chop them up 
finely, and add them to the curry. 

35. We then put into the mortar five coriander seeds, and 
one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and pound them well 
together with a pestle. 

36. When the rabbit is quite done, we take the pieces 
out with a fork, arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and 
pour the gravy round. 

37. We then sprinkle over the rabbit the remainder of 



64 National Training ScJiool for Cookery. 

the fried onions, and the pounded cinnamon and coriander 
seed. 

38. We take afresh lemon, cut it in half, and squeeze all 
the juice of it through a strainer over the rabbit. 

Pat n a rice should be served with the above curry. 

Now it is finished. 



Cooking Meat. (Entries.) Qitenelles of Veal. 65 

ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 2. 

QUENELLES OF VEAL. 

Average cost of " Quenelles of Veal (about 1 2) and the 

Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

1 Ib. of the fillet of veal i 3 

2 oz. of butter o 2 

2f oz. of flour o of 

if pint of 2nd white stock o 3 

2 eggs o 2 

i dozen button mushrooms o 6 

i gill of cream o 6 

i teaspoonful of lemon juice { i 

Salt -..../ 

2 III 

Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Quenelles of Veal. 

1. We put one ounce of butter and two ounces of flour into 
a stew-pan and mix them well together with a wooden 
spoon. 

2. We add one gill (quarter of a pint) of second white 
stock. 

3. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir well until it 
boils and thickens, and leaves the sides of the stewpan. 

4. We now pour this mixture or panada (as it is called) 
on to a plate. 

5. We stand the plate aside to cool. 

6. We take one pound of the fillet of veal and put it on 
a board. 

7. We take a sharp knife, cut away all the skin and fat, 
and cut up the meat into small pieces. 

8. We put these pieces of veal into a mortar, and pound 
them well with the pestle. 

9. We place a wire sieve over the plate ; we take this 



66 National Training School for Cookery. 

pounded meat and pass it through the sieve, rubbing it with 
a wooden spoon. 

10. When the panada on the plate is cold, we put half of 
it and one egg in the mortar and pound it to a cream. 

11. We then add half the meat, and salt and pepper to 
taste, and pound all well together with the pestle. 

12. We put into the mortar the remainder of the panada, 
and break in another egg and add the rest of the meat. 

13. We pound these well together again with the pestle. 

14. We turn the mixture from the mortar into a basin. 

15. We take a saute-pan and butter it inside. 

16. We take a dessertspoon and fill it with the mixture, 
shaping it to the form of an oval with a knife, which we 
must dip occasionally into Jiot water to prevent the mixture 
from sticking. 

17. We take another dessertspoon and dip it into boiling 
water. 

18. We scoop the quenelle from the first spoon into the 
second spoon, and put it into the saute-pan, and continue 
doing this till we have used up all the mixture. 

19. We must now make the sauce to be served with the 
quenelles. 

20. We take a stewpan, and put in Jialf aji ounce of 
butter and tJiree quarters of an ounce ofjlour. 

21. We put the stewpan oil the fire, and mix their, 
together with a wooden spoon. 

22. We take one dozen of button mushrooms, cut oft" th : 
end of the stalks and wash them well in cold water. 

23. We take them out of the water, put them upon a 
board, and peel them carefully with a sharp knife. 

24. We pour in half a pint of second ivhitc stock to the 
mixture in the stewpan, and add the mushroom peelings for 
flavouring. 

25. We must stir well until it boils and thickens. 

26. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire with the 
lid half on, and let it bo'l for a quarter of an hour. 



Cooking Meat. (Eriir/es.) Quenelles of Veal. 67 

27. We then take a spoon, and skim off all the butter 
from the top of the sauce. 

28. We now stir into the sauce one gill of cream, and 
stand the stewpan aside to keep warm, until required for 
use. 

29. We take the peeled mushrooms and put them in a 
stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 

30. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice 
and pour in one tablespoonful of cold water. 

31. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them 
to the boil. 

32. We now pour boiling' water carefully into the saute- 
pan, enough to cover the quenelles. 

X.B. We must be careful to pour the water very gently into the saute-pan 
or the quenelles will be spoiled. 

33. We put the saute-pan on the fire to poach the quenelle* 
for ten minutes. 

N. B. We must watch them and occasionally turn them carefully with a spoon. 

34. When the quenelles are done, we lift them carefully 
out of the water, and lay them on a cloth to drain off the 
water. 

35. For serving we must arrange them tastily in a circle 
on a hot dish. 

36. We fill in the centre of the dish with the boiled musli- 
rooms. 

N.B. Peas (see "Vegetables," Lesson No. 9) or spinach (see "Vegetables," 
Lesson No. 8) may be served with them instead, according to taste. 

37. We take the stewpan off the fire, and pour the sauce 
through a strainer over the quenelles. 

Now it is finished. 



E 2 



National Training School for Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 3. 

BRAISED FILLETS OF BEEF. 

Average cost of " Braised Fillets of Beef " 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

1 Ib. of fillet of beef r 4 

A piece of the fat of bacon o 3 

A bouquet garni of par>ley. thyme, and ) , 

hay leal .'....'. ( 

2 young carrots o i 

I onion, and \ of a stick of ci-lrry o i 

A pint of good stock o 7', 



Time required (fke stock should kmtk about one kottr **d a kalf. 



Now we will sliow you how to lard and \X3\seFilletSofBeef. 

1. \\'e take ouc pound of fillet of beef (cut from the under- 
cut of the sirloin), and put it on a board. 

2. \Vc take a sharp knife, and cut the beef into small 
round fillets, to about the size of the top of a breakfast cup, 
and about three quarters of an inch in thickness, and trim 
them neatly. 

3. We take a strip of the fat of bacon (nearest the rind 
is best, as it is harder), about one inck wide. 

4. We take a sharp knife and cut up this piece toibacon 
into little strips, an inck long, and the one-eighth of an inck 
in width and thickness. 

5. We take ca.c\\ fillet and hold it in a clean cloth. 

6. We take a larding needle with a little strip of bacon 
in it, and lard each fillet neatly in regular rows ; until one- 
side of tine fillet is entirely covered with strips of bacon. 

7. When we have larded all the fillets, we lay them care- 
fully in a clean saute-pan. 

8. We add a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of 
parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf, all tied neatly and tightly 
together. 



Cooking Meat. (Entries.} Braised Fillets of Beef . 69 

9. We take two young carrots, scrape them clean with 
a knife, and cut them in halves. 

10. We take an onion and peel it carefully. 

11. We add these vegetables and a quarter of a stick of 
celery to the fillets in the saute-pan. 

12. We now pour in a pint of good stock, put the saute- 
pan on the fire, and baste \.\\Qfillets continually. 

N.B. The stock must not cover the meat. 

13. We take a piece of kitchen paper, and cut a round 
to the size of the saute-pan and butter it. 

14. As soon as the stock boils, we lay this round of paper 
on the fillets in the saute-pan. 

N.B. This paper is to prevent the meat browning too quickly. 

15. We must lift the paper every now and then, when 
we require to baste tins fillets. 

16. We should put the saute-pan into a very hot oven, 
to brown faz fillets. 

17. We let i\\Q pint of stock reduce to a half glaze, which 
will take about half an hour. 

18. We must watch it, frequently raise the paper, and 
baste \hefillets with the stock. 

N.B. If the fillets are not brown enough, we take a salamander and heat it 
in the fire. 

19. We hold the salamander over the fillets, to brown 
them a nice colour. 

20. For serving, we take the fillets carefully out of the 
saute-pan, and arrange them on a hot dish in a circle, on a 
border of mashed potatoes. (See "Vegetables," Lesson No. 2.) 

N.B. We must stand this dish on the hot plate, or near the fire to keep 
warm until the sauce is ready. 

21. We put the saute-pan on the fire, and let the sauce 
reduce to a half glaze. 

22. We then strain the glaze round the meat. 

N.B. The centre of the dish may be filled in with mixed vegetables, i.e.. 
peas and beans, which should be cut in the shape of dice, carrots and 
turnips cut with a cutter, to the size of the peas. 

Now it is finished. 



70 National Training School for Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 4. 

MUTTON CUTLETS. 

Average cost of " Mutton Cutlets!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. d. 

3 Ibs. of the best end of the neck of mutton . . 30 

Bread crumbs o i 

r egg o i 

Salt and pepper o o , 

3 ounces of clarified butter o 3! 



Time required, about three-quarters ^f an hsur. 



Now we will show you how to fry Mutton Cutlets. 

1. We take three pounds of the best end of the neck of 
mutton and put it on a board. 

2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, 
leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 

3. We saw off the chine bone, which lies at the back of 
the cutlets. 

4. We joint each cutlet with the chopper. 

5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet close to 
the bone. 

6. We take a cutlet-bat, wet it, and beat each cutlet to 
about half an- inch in thickness. 

7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch 
of the rib bone bare. 

8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. 

N.B. The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be 
clarified and used as dripping. 

9. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of 
paper. 

10. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the 
sieve. 



Cooking Meat. (Entries :) Mutton Cutlets. 71 

11. We take one egg and beat it on a plate with a knife. 

12. We season the cutlets on both sides with pepper and 
.salt. 

13. We lay them in the egg, and egg them well all over 
with a brush. 

14. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover 
them well. 

N.B. We should be careful to finger them as little as possible, and lift 
them by the bare bone. 

15. We take a saute-pan, and pour in it one ounce of 
melted clarified butter or lard or clarified dripping (see 
Lesson " Frying.") 

16. We now lay in the cutlets with the bones to the 
centre of the saute-pan. 

17. We pour over them two more ounces of melted clarified 
butter or fat. 

18. We must now put the saute-pan on a very quick fire 
for about seven minutes. 

19. We must watch and turn the cutlets when they have 
become a light brown, so as to fry them the same colour on 
both sides. 

20. We place a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 

21. When the cutlets are done we take them carefully out 
with a fork, and lay them on the paper on the plate to drain 
off the grease. 

N.B. We should be careful not to stick the fork into the meat (or the gravy 
will run out), but into the fat. 

22. For serving, we arrange them nicely in a dish, in 
a circle, one leaning over the other ; the centre may be 
filled with any vegetable according to taste. 

Now it is finished. 



72 National Training School for Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 5. 

CHAUD FROID OF CHICKEN. 

Average cost of " Chand Froid of CJiickcn" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

T chicken 3 6 

\ a pint of white .since i o 

1 gill of cream o 6 

2 t able-spoonsful of aspic jolly ( 

< "hopped pieces of :i*pic jelly j 

Mixrc! vegetal >les o 9 

i gill of mayonnaise sauce o 5 

~7~\ 

Time ;<////;<. one hour and three-quarters. 



\ow \vc will show you how to make CJiaud froid of 
Chicken. 

1. \Vc put half a pint of white sauce (sec " Sauces," 
Lesson No. i), in a stewpan. 

2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and stir well 
with a wooden spoon till the sauce is reduced to oiiegUKpr 

quarter of a pint.} 

3. We then add one gill (or quarter of a pint] of crcav;. 
and stir again until it just boils. 

4. We take a tammy sieve and stand it over a basin. 

5. We take the stewpan off the fire and pass the contents 
through the sieve into the basin. 

6. When it is all passed through into the basin, we stir 
in two tablcspoonsf nl of aspie jelly (see u Jelly," Lesson No. 2.) 

N.B. This aspic jelly should be made with chicken as well as veal. 

7. We take a cold roast chicken (see "Trussing a Fowl for 
Roasting "), and put it on a board. 

N.B. The chicken must be young, as the flesh should be as white as 
possible. 

8. We cut it up in the same way as for carving, taking 



Cooking Meat. (Entries. ) CkaudFroid of Chicken. 



care that the pieces are all of one size. We must remove 
the skiu and neatly trim each piece. 

9. We take these pieces of chicken and dip them in the 
sauce, covering them well over. 

10. We stand a drainer over a dish. 

11. We place the pieces of chicken on the drainer, and let 
them remain until the sauce is set over each piece. 

12. For serving we arrange the pieces of chicken on 
chopped aspic jelly (see "Jelly," Lesson No. 2,) in a circle on 
a dish. 

13. The centre should be filled in with mixed vegetables, 
i.c., cooked potato, carrot, and beet-root, stamped out with a 
vegetable cutter, cooked French beans, cut to the shape of 
dice, and green peas, all mixed together, with tiuo table- 
spoonsful of mayonnaise sauce. (See " Sauces,'" Lesson No. 3.) 

Now it is finished. 



74 National Training School for Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

LESSON* Xo. 6. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Average cost of " Grilled Veal Cutlets" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 
3 Ib.s. of the best end of the neck of veal .... 3 o 

Savory thyme ) 

The rind of half a lemon J o i 

i bunch of parsley J 

i ounce of butter o \\ 

i teaspoonful of lemon juice o oj 

i egg o i 

\ V-pper and salt \ 

Bread crumbs j 

3 4* 
\ Ib. of bacon for rolls o 6 



10! 



Time rcijitircd, iibsitt half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to grill Veal Cutlets. 

1. We take three pounds of the best end of the neck of 
real, or veal cutlet, and put it on a board. 

2. \Ye take a saw and saw off the end of the rib boiu\ 
leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 

3. \Ye saw off the chine bone, which lies at the back of 

the cutlets. 

4. We joint each cutlet with the chopper. 

5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet close to 
the bone, so as to get an extra cutlet between each bone. 

6. We take a cutlet bat and beat each cutlet to about 
half an incJi in thickness. 

7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch 
of the rib bone bare. 

8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. 

N.B. The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be 
clarified, and used for dripping. 



Cooking Meat. (Entrees?) Veal Cutlets. 75 

9. W T e take a little savoury thyme, put it on a board, and 
chop it up very finely (the thyme, when chopped, should fill 
a saltspoon.) 

10. We take half a lemon and peel it very thinly. 

11. We chop this lemon rind up very finely. 

12. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it in cold 
water, and dry it in a cloth. 

13. We chop this parsley up very finely, on a board. 

14. We put one ounce of butter on a kitchen plate, and 
put it in the oven to melt. 

15. When the butter is melted, we add a iablcspoonful 
of lemon juice and the chopped thyme, lemon rind, and 
parsley. 

16. We add one egg m& pepper and salt to taste, and beat 
all up together with a knife. 

17. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of 
paper. 

18. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the 
sieve. 

19. We dip each cutlet into the plate, and cover them 
all over with the mixture. 

20. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover 
them well. 

X.B. We should finger them as little as possible. 

21. We take a gridiron and hold it to the fire to warm. 

22. We arrange the cutlets on the gridiron. 

23. We place the gridiron in front of a bright fire, but 
not too near, or the bread crumbs will burn before the 
cutlets are sufficiently cooked. 

24. We should then let them grill for about ten mimites, 
and when they have become a pale brown on one side, we 
should turn the gridiron so as to brown them on both sides 
alike. 

25. For serving, we arrange the cutlets on a wall of 
mashed potatoes, (see " Vegetables," Lesson No. 2} in a 
circle on a hot dish, one leaning over the other ; the centre 



76 National Training School for Cookery. 

may be filled in with rolls of bacon, (see below) and with a 
ick brown sauce (see "Sauces," Lesson No. 2). 

Now it is finished. 



For Rolls of Bacon. 

1. \Ve cut some ////;/ slices of bacon, about two inches 
wide, and about four inches in length. 

2. We roll up these strips of bacon. 

3. We take a skewer and run it through the centre of 
each roll of bacon. 

4. We place this skewer, with the bacon, on a tin and 
put it in the oven for six minutes. 

6. For serving, we take the rolls of bacon off the skewer, 
and arrange them in the centre of the cutlets, as described 
above. 

\o\v it is finished. 



Cooking Meat. (Entries?) Fricassee of Chicken. 77 



ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 7. 

FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. 

Average cost of a " Fricassee I Average cost of a " Fricassee 
of Chicken." of Cold Chicken! 



INGREDIENTS. 



J. 



i young chicken 

i small carrot 

^ an onion 

1 stick of celery 

2 or 3 sprigs of parsley 

i sprig of thyme \ c 

1 bay leaf , 

2 cloves 

6 peppercorns 

i blade of mace 

ij pint of second white stock . . o 

1 oz. of butter o 

1 2 oz. of flour o 

2 dozen of button mushrooms f 
Fried bread ) 

i gill of cream o 



d. 

6 



-3 



o 

6 



INGREDIENTS. 

Some cold chicken, i one . . 

i a carrot 

J of an onion 

k, a stick of celery 

A bouquet garni, of parsley, 

thyme, and bay-leaf 

i gill of cream 

i clove . 



d. 

9 



3 peppercorns 

g a blade of mace 

i pint of good white stock 

\ an oz. of butter 

i oz. of flour 

i dozen button mushrooms 

Fried bread 

Salt 



o 
o 

o 
o 
o 
o 



7* 



o| 



3 6J 



Time required, about one hour and a half. Time required, about forty minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Fricassee of 
Chicken. 

1. We take a young chicken, clean it, draw it (see "Trussing 
a Fowl for Roasting," from Note I to Note 12), and skin it. 

2. We cut the chicken into joints, and put them in a 
basin of cold water for about ten minutes. 

3. After that time we take the pieces of chicken out of 
the water and dry them in a clean cloth. 

4. We take one small carrot, wash and scrape it clean, 
and cut it into slices. 

5. We take half an onion and peel it. 

6. We take one stick of celery and tivo or three sprigs of 
parsley, and wash them in cold water. 



78 National Training School for Cookery. 



7. We put these vegetables into a stewpan. 

8. We add to them one sprig of thyme, one bay leaf, tii'o 
cloves, six peppercorns, and one blade of mace. 

9. We now put in the pieces of chicken, and add one and 
a half pint of second ichite stock. 

10. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil gently for 
about half an hour. 

11. When the pieces of chieken are quite done, we take 
them out of the stewpan, wash them in a basin of cold 
water, and dry them in a cloth. 

12. We strain the stock from the stewpan into the basin. 

13. We take tn'o dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the 
ends of the stalks, wa>h them in cold water, and peel 
them. 

14. We take the peeled mushrooms, and put them into 
the stewpan with ^ piece of buffer the size of a nut. 

15. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice, 
and pour in a tablespoon/til of cold water. 

16. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them 
to the boil. 

17. We then take the stewpan off the fire and turn them 
on to a plate. 

18. We wash out the stewpan, and then put in it one 
ounce of butter. 

19. We put the ste\vpan on the fire to melt the butter. 

20. We then add one and a half ounce of flour to the 
butter, stirring it well with a wooden spoon. 

21. We now remove all \.\^ grease from the chicken stock. 
and add it and the trimmings of the mushrooms to the 
stewpan, and stir well until it boils. 

22. We must now move the stewpan to the side of the 
fire, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes. The cover 
of the stewpan should be half on. 

23. After that time we take a spoon and carefully skim 
.off all the butter that will have risen to the top of the sauce. 

24. We now put the stewpan over the fire to boil, and 



Cooking Meat. (Entries?) Fricassee of Chicken. 79 

let the sauce reduce to about one pint, and then add one gill 
of cream. 

25. We take the pieces of chicken- and put them in 
another stewpan, with the two dozen of button mushrooms. 

26. When the sauce is sufficiently reduced, we strain it 
over the chicken. 

27. We then stand the stewpan in a saucepan of hot 
water over the fire until the chicken is quite hot. 

28. For serving, we arrange the fricassee of chicken on a 
hot dish, with fried bread (as described in "Vegetables," 
Lesson No. 8, Note 13 to Note 17). 

Now it is finished. 



Now we will show you how to make a Fricassee of Cold 
Chicken. 

1. We take some cold roast or boiled chicken. 

2. W T e cut away all the meat from the bone, and cut it 
up into neat pieces. 

3. We put one pint of good white stock (see " Lesson on 
Stock "), and the chicken bones into a stewpan. 

4. We take half a carrot, wash and scrape it clean, and 
cut it into slices. 

5. We take a quarter of an onion and peel it. 

6. We take half a stick of celery and wash it in cold 
water. 

7. We put these vegetables into the stewpan. 

8. We add to them a bouquet garni (consisting of a 
sprig of parsley, one sprig of thyme, and one bay leaf tied 
tightly together), one clove, three peppercorns, and half a 
blade of mace. 

9. We put the stewpan on the fire and let it boil for 
twenty minutes. 

10. After that time we strain the stock into a basin. 



So National Training School for Cookery. 

11. We take one dozen of button mushrooms, cut off the 
end of the stalks, wash them in cold water, and peel them. 

12. We take the peeled muslirooms and put them in a 
stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a nut. 

13. We squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon jnicc\ 
and pour in a tablespoonful of cold water. 

14. We put the stewpan on the fire and just bring them 
to the boil. 

15. We then take the stewpan off the fire and turn them 
on to a plate. 

16. We put half an ounce of butter into a stewpan. 

17. We put the stewpan on the fire. When the butter is 
melted we put in one ounce of flour, stirring 1 it well with a 
wooden spoon. 

18. We now add the ehicken stock, and the mushroom 
peelings, and stir the sanee well until it boils. 



19. We let it boil for ten minutes to cook theyftw. 

20. After that time we add i m<. 'gill of cream, and salt to 
taste. 

21. We put the pieces of chicken and the button mnsh- 
.rooms into another stewpan. 

22. We strain the sauce over the chicken, and then stand 
the stewpan, in a saucepan of hot water, over the fire until 
the chicken is quite hot. 

23. For serving, we arrange the fricassee of chicken on a 
hot dish, with somc/r/<v/ bread (as described in "Vegetables," 
Lesson No. 8, Note 13 to Note 17), put round the edge. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. (EnMes). Beef Olives. 81 



ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 8. 

BEEF OLIVES. 

Average cost of " Beef Olives" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

i^ Ib. of beef or rump steak, or the fillet ) 
of beef J 

2 oz. of beef suet o i \ 

3 oz. of bread crumbs o i 

i teaspoonful of chopped parsley o o\ 

% of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and ) ,_ 

marjoram / 4 

A little grated lemon rind and nutmeg . . ) 1 

Salt and pepper } * 

i egg o i 

i pint of brown sauce or stock i o 



3 4i 



Time required, about one hour. 

Now we will show you how to make Beef Olives. 

1. We take one and a half pound of beef or rump steak, or 
\hQfillet of beef, and put it on a board. 

2. We cut the beef in slices about half an inch in thick- 
ness and four inches in length, and beat them out with a 
wet cutlet bat. 

N.B. We should be careful that all the slices are of the same size. 

3. We take the trimmings that remain, chop them up 
very finely, and put them in a basin. 

4. We take two ounces of beef suet, and put it on a board. 

5. We take a knife and cut away all the skin, and chop 
the suet up very finely. 

6. We stand a wire sieve over a piece of paper. 

7. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the 
sieve. (There should be tJiree ounces of bread crumbs.} 

8. We take a little parsley and chop it up finely. (There 
should be one teaspoonful of chopped parsley.} 



82 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We take a little tJiymc and marjoram and chop them 
up finely. (There should be about a quarter of a teaspoonfid 

of chopped thyme and marjoram] 

10. We add all these things (i.e., suet, bread crumbs, 
parsley, thyme, and marjoram] to the chopped beef in the 
basin. 

11. We also grate about half a teaspoon ful of lemon rind, 
and nutmeg (as much as would cover a $d. piece] into the 
basin. 

12. We season it with pepper and salt according to taste, 
and add one egg, and mix all well together with a wooden 
spoon. 

13. We take this mixture out of the basin, and form it 
into pieces the shape and size of a cork. 

14. We roll up each slice of beef, placing a piece of 
stuffing in the centre. 

15. We should tie each roll round with a piece of tivinc 
to fasten it securely together. 

16. We place these rolls in a stewpan, with about one 
pint of brown sauce (see " Sauces," Lesson. No. 2), QV good 
stock (see Lesson on " Stock.") 

17. We put the stewpan on the fire and let them stew 
gently for three quarters of an hour. 

18. For serving, we arrange the beef olives on a hot dish 
in a circle, pouring the sance round the edge ; the centre 
may be filled in with dressed spinach (see " Vegetables," 
Lesson No. 8), or with mashed potatoes (see "Vegetables," 
Lesson No. 2.) 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. (Entries}.- -Irish Stew. 83 

ENTREES. 

LESSOX No. 9. 

IRISH STEW. 



Average cost of an " Irish Stew" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 
3 Ibs. of the best end of the neck of mutton ) 

or the scrag end . . . . j ^ 

i teaspoonful of salt ' ) L 

i saltspoonful of pepper J * 

i doz. of button onions or two moderate ones o t 
6 large potatoes o 2 

3 3i 
Time required, about two hours. 



Now we will show you how to make an Irish 
Stew. 

1. We take the best end of the neck of mutton and cut 
and trim the cutlets in the same way as for "haricot 
mutton' (see "Entrees," Lesson No. 10, from Note I to 
Note 8). 

2. We place the cutlets In a stewpan. 

3. We sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt and a 
saltspoonful of pepper, and pour in one and a half pint of cold 
water. 

4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when it has come 
to the boil we should skim it. 

5. We now draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and 
let it simmer gently for one hour. 

6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally and re- 
move z\\fat. 

7. We take Jialf a dozen of potatoes, wash, scrub them, 
and peel them. 

8. We cut these potatoes in halves. 

9. We take one dozen of button onions, or two moderate- 
sized ones, and peel them carefully. 



F 2 



84 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We add the onions and potatoes to the stew, and let 
it simmer for one hour. 

11. After that time we should take a fork and feel if the 
vegetables are quite tender. 

12. For serving we arrange the cutlets in a circle on a 
hot dish, and pour the sauce round, and the vegetables in the 
centre. 

S'.B. The scrag end of the neck of mutton might be used instead of the 
end, but care should be taken in cleansing it before use. 

No\v it is finished. 



Cooking Meat.- -(Entrees). Haricot Mutton. 

ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 10. 

HARICOT MUTTON. 

Average cost of " Haricot Mutton! 1 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

3 Ibs. of the best end of the neck of mutton 3 o 

i onion o o} 

Pepper and salt ) \ 

i tablespoonful of flour } - t 

i pint of second stock o 3! 

i carrot o o| 

i turnip o o\ 

i dozen button onions o i 



Time required, about one hour and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make Haricot Mutton. 

1. We take the best end of the neck of mutton and put it 
on a board. 

2. We take a saw and saw off the end of the rib bone, 
leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 

3. We saw off the chine bone which lies at the back of 
the cutlets. 

4. We joint each cutlet with a chopper. 

5. We take a sharp knife and cut off each cutlet. 

6. We take a cutlet-bat and beat each cutlet to about 
rather more than half an inch in thickness. 

7. We trim the cutlet round, leaving about half an inch 
of the rib bone bare. 

8. We form the cutlets to a good shape. 

X. B. The trimmings of the cutlets should be put aside, as the fat may be 
clarified and used for dripping (see Lesson on " Frying "). 

9. We take one onion, peel it, and cut it in slices. 

10. We put the onion and the cutlets in a stewpan, with 
two ounces of butter. 



86 National Training School for Cookery. 

11. We put the stewpan on a quick fire to fry the cutlets 
a nice brown. 



. We must watch and turn the cutlets when they have 
become a light brown, so as to fry them the same colour 
on both sides : We then remove the cutlets from the stew- 
pan. 

13. We should pour off the grease from the stewpan (and 
leave the onion], and then add one tablespoonful of floui\ 
and pour in by decrees one pint of second stock, and stir well 
until it boils. 

14. We strain this sauce, and return the cutlets with the 
sauce into the stewpan. 

15. We take one carrot, wash it, and scrape it clean with 
a knife, and cut it in the shape of young carrots, or into 
fancy shapes with a cutter. 

16. We take t:co turnips, peel them, and cut them in 
quarters. 

17. We take one dozen button onions and peel them very 
carefully, so as not to break them in pieces. 

18. We put the stewpan on the fire and let the meat 
stew gently for Jialf an hour, then add the prepared vege- 
tables, and let all simmer for Jialf an Iiour. 

19. After that time we should take a fork and feel if the 
vegetables are quite tender. 

20. For serving we arrange the cutlets in a circle on a 
hot dish with the vegetables in the centre ; we remove ail 
grease from the sauce and pour it round. 

N.B. The scrag end of the neck of mutton might be used instead of the 
best end, but care should be taken in cleansing it before use. 

Xow it is finished. 



Cooking Meat. (Entrees). Croquettes of Chicken. 87 



ENTREES. 

H 

LESSON No. n. 

CROQUETTES OR RISSOLES OF 

CHICKEN. 

Average cost of " Croqjiettes or Rissoles of Chicken ' 

(about 15). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 a cold chicken i 9 

2 oz. of lean ham or bacon o 6 

6 mushrooms o 3 

i oz. of flour } 

i oz. of butter j 2 

\ a gill (i gill is 5 pint) of cream o 3 

i gill of stock o 2 

Seasoning o o 

The juice of half a lemon o i 

i egg o i 

\ Ib. of bread crumbs o 2 

3 
If for rissoles with paste 

4 oz. of flour and 3 oz. of butter o 



3 I0 
Time required, about one hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Croquettes or Ris- 
soles of Chicken. 

1. We take the half chicken (either roasted or boiled], cut 
away all the flesh from the bones, and put it on a board. 

2. We cut away the skin, and mince the meat up very 
finely. 

3. We take the mushrooms, wash them, peel them, and 
mince them and the ham up finely on the board, mixing 
them with the minced chicken. 

4. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it on 
the fire. 

5. When the butter is melted we stir in one ounce offlour t 
and mix it to a smooth paste. 



88 National Training School for Cookery. 



6. We now add the stock, and stir again smoothly until 
it boils and thickens. 

7. We move the stewpan to the side of the fire and stir 
in half a gill of cream . 

8. We take half 'a lemon and squeeze the juice of it into 
the sauce. 

N.B. We must be careful not to let any//>j fall in. 

9. We season the sauce with pepper and salt according to 
taste, and, if liked, we might grate about half a saltspoonful 
of nutmeg into it. 

10. We now stir in the minced chicken, ham, and musli- 
rooms until all arc well mixed together. 

11. We take a plate and turn the contents of the stew- 
pan on to it. 

12. We take a piece of kitchen paper, cut it to the size of 
the plate, butter it, and la}- it on the top of the mixture, and 
stand the plate aside to cool. 

13. When the mixture is cold we put one pound and half 
of lard w clarified dripping in a deep stewpan, and put it 
on the fire to heat. 

14. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through a 
wire sieve on to a piece of paper. 

15. If rissoles are required we put four ounces of Jlour on 
a board, and rub into it three ounces of butter until both are 
thoroughly mixed and there arc no lumps remaining. 

16. We mix \\\v flour and butter into a stiff smooth paste 
with cold water. 

17. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, sprinkle some flour 
over the board, and roll the paste out into as thin a sheet as 
possible. 

18. We flour our hands, dip a knife in flour (to prevent 
any sticking), and form the chicken mixture into any fancy 
shapes for croquettes either in balls or long rolls, &c., or 
we can roll it in the paste for rissoles. 

19. We break an cggQ\\ to a plate and beat it up slightly 
with a knife. 



Cooking Meat. (Entrdes). Croquettes of Chicken. 8 9 

20. We dip the croquettes or rissoles into the egg, and 
egg them well all over with a paste brush. 

21. We now roll them in the bread crumbs, covering 
them well all over. 

N.B. We must be careful to cover them smoothly and not too thickly. 

22. We take a frying basket and arrange the croquettes 
or rissoles in it, but we must finger them as little as possible, 
and not allow them to touch each other. 

23. When the fat on the fire is quite hot and smoking, 
we put in the frying basket for two minutes or so, to fry 
them a pale yellow. 

24. We put a piece of whity-brown paper on a plate, 
and as the rissoles are fried we turn them on to the paper 
to drain off the grease. 

25. For serving we arrange them tastily on a hot dish, 
with fried parsley in the centre. 

N.B. Cold veal or pheasant, &c., might be used for the rissoles and cro- 
quettes instead of chicken, if preferred. 

Now it is finished. 



90 National Training School for Cookery. 

ENTREES. 

LESSON No. 12. 

CURRIED RABBIT. 

Average cost of " Curried Rabbit or Vcair 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. d. 

1 rabbit or i } Ib. of veal cutlet i 6 

:{- Ib. of butter o 4 

2 onions ) 

> o 2 

1 apple j 

2 tablespoonsful of curry powder o 4 

i pint of good stock o 8 

i gill (\ pint) of cream o 6 

i lemon I o 

% a teaspoonful of salt J 



3 8 

Time ;v/;//;v./, absut . rs <:/;u' a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Curry of rabbit 
or I'cal. 

1. \Ye put a quarter of a pound of butter into a stcwpan 
and put it on the fire to melt. 

2. \Ye take tico onions, peel them, put them on a board, 
and chop them up as finch" as possible. 

3. We put the chopped onions into the incited butter, and 
let them fry a light brown. 

N.I'. \Ve must be careful that they do not burn. 

4. We take a rabbit (which has been skinned and pro- 
perly prepared for cooking), wash it well, and dry it in a 
cloth. 

5. We put the rabbit on a board and cut it up in pieces 
of equal size. 

6. If veal is used we should put it on a board and cut it 
into equal sized pieces. 

N.B. If preferred chicken can be used instead of rabbit or veal. 

7. When the onions are fried we strain them from the 
butter. 



Cooking Meat. (Entries). Curried Rabbit. 91 

8. We put the butter back into the stewpan. 

9. We now put in the pieces of meat, put the stewpan 
over a quick fire, and let it fry for ten minutes. 

10. We must watch it and turn the pieces of meat occa- 
sionally, so that they are fried on both sides alike. 

11. We take an apple, peel it, cut out the core, and chop 
it up as finely as possible on a board. 

12. When the meat is fried we add to it two tablespoons- 
fnl of curry powder y and Jialf a teaspoon/til of salt, and stir 
well over the fire for five minutes. 

13. We then put in the fried onions, the chopped apple,. 
and one pint of good stock. 

14. We move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let 
it simmer gently for two Jwurs. 

15. After that time we stir in one gill (quarter of a pint) 
of cream. 

16. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel 
it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife (the peel we 
should put aside as it is not required for present use). 

17. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze the juice of it 
through a strainer into the stewpan. 

18. For serving we take the pieces of meat out of the 
stewpan and arrange them nicely on a hot dish, and pour 
the sauce over the meat. 

N.B. Boiled rice (see Lesson on " Rice") should be served with the curry. 

Now it is finished. 



92 National Training School for Cookery. 



RICE. 

Average cost of " Boiled Rice" to be served with 

Curry, c. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ lb. of Patna rice ) ^ 

5 of a teaspoonful of salt J 



i.V 



Time required, about half tin hour. 

Now we will show you how to boil Rice to be served 
with curry, &c. 

1. \Yc take a large stcwpan and pour in it four quarts of 
water. 

2. We put the stcwpan on the fire to boil the water. 

3. \Yc take Jialf a pound of Patna rice, put it in a 
basin of cold water, and wash it well. 

4. \Ye drain off the uatcr and rub the rice with our 
hands. 

5. \Yc must carefully pick out all the yellow grains and 
bits of black. 

6. \Yc must wash the rice in this manner four times. 

7. Just before putting the rice on to boil we must pour 
some fresh cold water over it. 

8. When the water in the stcwpan is quite boiling, we 
throw the rice into it, stirring it round with a spoon. 

9. \Ye must add one quarter of a tcaspoouful of salt, 
which will make the scum rise. 

10. We must take a spoon and skim it occasionally. 

11. The rice should boil fast from fifteen to twenty minutes. 

N.B. To test if the rice is sufficiently boiled, we should take out a grain or 
two, and press it between the thumb and finger, and if quite done, 
it will mash. 

12. We now pour the rice out of the saucepan into a 
cullender to drain off the water. 



Lessons on Cooking. Boiled Rice. 93 

13. We take the cullender which contains the rice, and 
hold it under the tap. 

14. We turn the tap and let the cold water run on to 
the rice for one or two seconds. (This is to separate the 
grains of rice.) 

15. We take a clean dry stewpan and put it at the side 
of the fire. 

16. \Vhen the water is quite drained from the rice t we 
turn it from the cullender into the dry stewpan at the side 
of the fire. 

17. We put the lid half on the stewpan. 

18. We watch it, and stir it occasionally, to prevent the 
grains from sticking to the bottom of the stewpan. 

19. When the rice is quite dry, we take it out carefully 
with a wooden spoon, and place it lightly on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



94 National Training School for Cookery. 

STEWS. 

LESSON No. i. 

A-LA-MODE BEEF. 

Average cost of " A-la-Modc Beef." 

INGREDIENTS- 

s. d. 

i cow-heel o 6 

An ox-cheek 2 o 

3 oz. of dripping .'.... o i V 

3 carrots o i \ 

6 onions o 2 

r bunch of herbs (marjoram, thyme, parsley, ) i 

- - - 4 -i 



and bayleaf) 

2 tablespoonsful of flour ) 

Pepper and salt j 

Time required, three //<>;// . 



o 



Now we will show you how to make A -la-mode Beef. 

1. \Yc take a dressed cow-heel and wash it thoroughly in 
water. 

2. \Ye put the cow-heel on a board, and cut off all the 
Jlesli ; we cut \\\<z flesh into neat pieces. 

3. We take an ox-check and wasli it well in cold water. 

N.B. \\V must be sure it is quite clean and free from all impurities. 

4. \Yc put the ox-cheek on a board, and rub it well with 
salt. 

5. \Ye then rub it quite dry in a clean cloth. 

6. \Yc put three ounces of clarified dripping into a large 
saucepan, and put on the fire to melt. 

7. \Vc cut the ox-cheek up into neat pieces. 

N.B. We should weigh the flesh of the o.v-chcck and ccn;<-hccl, so as to know 
how much -safer should be added, as i pint is allowed to each //>. of meat. 

8. \\zflonr each piece. 

9. \Ylicn the dripping is melted, we put in the floured 
pieces of ox-cheek, and let them fry a nice brown. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. A- la- Mode Beef. 95 

10. We must stir the pieces occasionally, and not let 
them stick to the bottom of the saucepan. 

11. We take three carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, 
and cut them in slices with a sharp knife. 

12. We take six onions, peel them, and cut them in 
slices. 

13. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it, and dry it 
in a cloth. 

14. We take one sprig of marjoram, thyme, one bay -leaf, 
and the parsley, and tie them tightly together with a piece 
of string. 

15. We put these vegetables and the bunch of herbs into 
the saucepan. 

16. We also pour in the proper quantity of water, 
namely, one pint of water to each pound of meat. 

17. We put two tablespoonsful of flour into a basin, and 
mix it into a smooth paste with cold water. 

18. We now put the pieces of cow-heel into the saucepan, 
and plenty of pepper and salt to taste. 

19. We stir \hzpaste smoothly into the saucepan. 

20. We put the lid on the saucepan, and when it boils 
we should move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let 
It stew gently for three hours. 

21. We must watch it and skim it very often. 

N.B. We must be always careful to skim anything that is cooking directly 
the scum rises, or it will boil down again into the meat and will spoil it 
scum is the impurity which rises from the meat or vegetables. 

22. When the stew is finished, we pour it into a large 
dish or a soup tureen ; it is then ready for serving. 

N.B. The bones of the cou'hecl should be put into the stockpot. 

Now it is finished. 



96 National Training School for Cookery. 

STEWS. 

LESSON No. 2. 

BRAZILIAN STEW. 

Average cost of a " Brazilian Stci^" 

o 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

4 Ibs. of shin or sticking of beef 2 o 

2 carrots o i 

2 turnips o i 

4 onions o 2 

A bunch of herbs, /'.(-.. marjoram, thyme, ) 

and par>ley j o o} 

Pcp|>or and salt ) 

i gill of vinegar o o\ 

2 5 
Time re ;:tircd, <:*.-/ three h,~ur c.nd ten minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Brazilian 
Slrw. 

1. \Ve take four pounds of the shin or sticking of beef , put 
it on a board, and cut all the meat off the bone. 

2. We cut the meat up into neat pieces. 

3. We put some vinegar into a basin ; we dip each piece 
of meat into the rinegar. 

N.B. Putting meat into vinegar will make in tender, therefore any tough 
pieces of meat may be used for this stew. The vinegar will not be 
tasted when the meat is cooked. 

4. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, 
and cut them into slices with a sharp knife. 

5. We take two turnips and four onions, peel them, and 
cut them up into slices. 

6. W r e put the pieces of meat into a saucepan, arranging 
them closely together. 

7. We should sprinkle some pepper and salt over the 
meat. 

8. We now put in all the vegetables, and we also add a 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Brazilian Stew. 97 

small bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram, thyme, 
and parsley, tied tightly together. 

N. B. We put no water in this stew ; the vinegar draws out the juices of the 
meat, and makes plenty of gravy. 

9. We shut down the lid tight, put the saucepan by the 
side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for at least three 
hours. 

10. For serving we turn the stew on to a hot dish, or in 
a soup tureen. 

Now it is finished. 



98 National Training School for Cookery. 

STEWS. 

r 

LESSON No. 3. 

IRISH STEW. 

Average cost of an " Irish Stew" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 Ibs. of potatoes 2 

i Ib. of the scrag end of mutton 8 

i Ib. of onions \ 

Pepper and salt ) 

ii 
Time required, ab<.ntt three hours. 



Now we will show you how to make an " Irish Stew'' 

1. \Ve take two pounds of potatoes, wash them well in 
cold water. 

2. We take a sharp knife, peel them, carefully cut out 
the eyes or any black specks about the potatoes, and cut 
them in slices. 

3. \Ve take one pound of onions, peel them, and cut them 
in slices. 

4. We take one pound of tJie scrag end of the neck of 
mutton, wash it in cold water, and scrape it clean with a knife. 

5. We put the meat on a board, and cut it up in small 
pieces. 

6. We take a large saucepan, put in a layer of meat, then 
a layer of potatoes, then a layer of onions. 

7. We should sprinkle a little pepper and salt over each 
layer for seasoning. 

8. \Ve continue to fill the saucepan in this way till there 
is no meat or vegetables left. 

9. We now pour in sufficient cold water to cover the 
bottom of the saucepan (about half a pint}. 

10. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it has 






Lessons on Cooking Meat. Irish Stew. 99 

come to the boil, we draw it to the side of the fire and let 
it stew gently for from one hour and a half to two hours. 

11. We must watch it, and stir it occasionally to prevent 
its catching. 

12. For serving we turn the stew out on a hot dish. 

X.B. If a larger quantity of potato is required in the stew, the extra quantity 
of potato should be parboiled (see note below), and then cut in slices, and 
added to the stew 4 an hour before it is ready for serving. If all the 
potatoes were put in with the meat at first, so much water would be 
required that the stew would be spoiled. 

N. B.--For parboiling (or hal f boiling) potatoes we wash them, and peel them, 
put them in a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them, put the 
saucepan on the fire, and let \.\\e potatoes boil for about a \ of aft hour. 

Now it is finished. 



G 2 



TOO National Training School for Cookery. 

STEWS. 

LESSON No. 4. 

STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF (cold). 

Average cost of " Stewed Brisket of Beef " 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

7 Ibs. of brisket of beef at 9</. per Ib 5 3 

2 carrots o i 

1 turnip o ol 

2 onions o i 

i head of celery o 2 

i leek o i 

Bouquet garni (i.e., sprig of thyme, mar-^ 

jorum, and bay leaf) 

6 cloves I 

12 pi-ppercorns 

6 allspice 

i tablespoonful of salt 



5 
Time rC'juircd, tibsnt four hours. 



Now we will show you how to stew Brisket of BceJ\ 
to be served cold, 

1. We take seven pounds of brisket of far/ (not very fat), 
see that it is quite clean, and, if necessary, scrape it with 
a knife and wipe it with a clean cloth, and then put it into 
a large saucepan. 

2. \Ve take two carrots, wash and scrape them clean and 
cut them in halves. 

3. "We take one turnip and two onions, wash them and 
peel them, and cut the turnip in quarters. 

4. We take one leek and one head of celery, wash them 
well in water, cut the long green leaves off the leek, and the 
green tops from the celery. 

5. We add all these vegetables to the meat in the 
saucepan. 

6. We also add a bouquet garni, of thyme, marjoram* 
and a bay leaf tied tightly together, six cloves, twelve pepper- 



JLessons on Cooking Meat. Stewed Brisket of Beef, i o i 

corns, sir allspice, one tablespoonfnl of salt, and three quarts 
of cold ivatcr. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes 
to the boil we should skim it well. 

8. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
and let the contents simmer gently for three Jiours, we must 
watch it and skim it occasionally. 

9. After that time we take the meat out of the saucepan 
and put it on a dish. 

10. We take a knife and carefully remove the flat bones 
at the side of the beef. 

11. We place the beef between two dishes and some 
heavy weight on the top to press the beef. 

12. We pour the stock through a strainer into a basin, 
and when it is cold we should remove every particle of fat. 

13. We then put the stock in a stewpan, and put it on 
the fire to boil, without the lid, so as to reduce the stock to 
a glaze, about a gill (a quarter of a pint). 

14. We now take the beef and with a paste brush cover 
the joint with the glaze, brushing it over several times until 
all the glaze is used up ; as soon as the glaze is cold and set 
on the beef, it is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



IO2 National Training School for Cookery. 

TRIPE. 

LESSON No. i. 

CURRIED TRIPE. 

Average cost of " Curried Tripe? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

lib. of tripe 8 

\ Ib. of I'atna rice o;| 

i onion o'. 

Flour, sugar, and curry powder 1 1 

xoj 

7 hue required, tifoitt three hsnrs. 



Now we will show you how to make a Curry of Tripe. 

1. We take one pound of tripe, put it in a saucepan of 
cold water, and let it boil up. Immediately it boils take it 
out of the water. 

N.B. This is called blanching. 

2. After the tripe has been blanched, we scrape it with 
a knife to thoroughly cleanse it. 

3. We cut the tripe up into small pieces. 

4. We take a saucepan and lay the pieces of tripe in it, 
and pour in sufficient cold icater to cover the tripe. 

5. We take a small onion and peel it, and cut it partially 
through. 

6. We put the onion into the saucepan of tripe. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils 
we must remove it to the side of the fire and let it simmer 
for not less than two hours and a half. 

8. After that time we try the tripe with a fork, and if it 
is sufficiently cooked it will be very tender. 

9. We take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

10. We take the pieces of tripe out with a fork and put 
them on a dish. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Curried Tripe. 103 

11. We take a small saucepan and put in it one ounce of 
flour, one dessertspoonful of curry poivder, and half an ounce 
of dripping, and mix them all well together with a wooden 
spoon. 

12. We add cold water, sufficient to make the above into 
a stiff paste. 

13. We now pour in half a pint of the liquor in which 
the tripe was boiled. 

14. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the mixture 
well until it boils and thickens. We must not let it get 
lumpy. 

15. We stir in a quarter of a teaspoonful of broivn sugar 
and salt according to taste. W T e must now stand the 
saucepan aside to get cool. 

16. We take the onion which was boiled with the tripe, 
and cut it in shreds and add it to the sauce. 

17. When the sauce is a little cool we put in the pieces 
of tripe and just let them warm through. 

18. We take a dish and warm it, and pour the tripe and 
sauce on it, keeping it as much in the centre of the dish as 
possible. 

19. We take a teacupful of Patna rice, wash it well in 
two or three waters, and put it in a saucepan full of boiling 
water. We must be sure the water is boiling. (N.B. Rice 
should be boiled in plenty of water.) We add to it a 
saltspoonful of salt. 

20. We must let it boil from a quarter of an hour to 
twenty minutes, after that time we must feel the rice to see 
if it is soft. 

21. When the rice is sufficiently cooked we strain it off, 
and pour cold water over it. 

22. We then put the rice back into the empty saucepan, 
and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire to dry the 
rice. The lid should be only half on the saucepan. 

23. When the rice is quite dry we take it out of the 
saucepan and arrange it round the tripe. 

Now it is finished. 



IO4 National Training School fen' Cookery. 

TRIPE. 

LESSON No. 2. 

TRIPE IN MILK. 

Average cost of " Tripe in J\Iilk" 
INGREDIENTS. 

S. d. 

lib. of tripe o 8 

3 or 4 good sized onions o 2 

i pint of milk o 2 

Seasoning and flour o oV 



i oV 



Time rcijitiriJ, about /7r<> hour* </;/</ </ half. 



Now we will show you how to cook Tripe in J\lilk. 

1. We take one pound of tripe, put it into a saucepan 
of cold water to boil up and blanch. When it boils we 
take it off the fire. 

2. After the tripe has been blanched, we take it out 
of the water and scrape it with a knife to thoroughly 
cleanse it. 

3. We put the tripe on a board and cut it in small 
pieces. 

4. We take three or four good sized onions, peel them 
and cut them partially through. 

6. We put the tripe and onions into a saucepan with one 
pint of milk. 

6. \Ve put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

7. When it boils we should move the saucepan to the 
side of the fire, and let it simmer for not less than tivo 
hours. 

8. After that time we should feel the tripe with a fork, 
and if it is sufficiently cooked it will be very tender. 

9. We take the saucepan off the fire and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat.- Tripe in Milk. 105 

10. We take the onions out of the saucepan and put 
them on a board and chop them up finely. 

11. We take the tripe out of the saucepan and arrange it 
on a warm dish. 

12. We stand the dish near the fire to keep warm. 

13. We take a dessertspoonful of flour and mix it to a 
smooth paste with cold milk. 

14. We stir, by degrees, the paste into the hot milk, and 
let it boil and th.icken. 

15. We now stir the onion into the milk and let it warm 
through. 

16. We season the onion sauce, according to taste, and 
pour it over the tripe. 

Now it is finished. 



io6 National Training School for Cookery. 

TRIPE. 

LESSON No. 3. 

TRIPE A LA COUTANCE. 

Average cost of " Tripe a la Contance" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

i Ib. of thin tripe o 8 

\ Ib. of bacon o 6 

1 small carrot o o4 

4 mushrooms o 2 

V a large onion or 6 small green onions . . j 
Bouquet garni . o 24 

2 shalots and parsley ) 

2 oz. of butter o 2 

i tablespoonful of I larvey sauce | 

i tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. . . . ) 

i oz. of flour o oj 

i pint of stock o 7 } 

The juice of half a lemon o i 

Nilt and pepper o o\ 



Time rC'/itireJ, <7/W/ two hours ijint </ 



Now we will show you how to cook Tripe d la Con- 
tancc. 

1. We wash the tripe well in cold water. 

2. We put the tripe in a stewpan with cold water enough 
to cover it. 

3. We put the stewpan on the fire and bring it to the 
boil. 

N.B. This is to blanch the tripe. 

4. We then take the tripe out of the stewpan and dry it 
in a clean cloth. 

5. We put the tripe on a board, and with a sharp knife 
cut it into strips about tico inches wide and four Indies in 
length. 

N.B. Only the/// /// part of the tripe can be used for " tripe d la Coutiutcc ;" 
if there are any thick pieces they can be cooked with milk and onions 
(see "Tripe," Lesson No. 2). 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Tripe a la Coutance. 107 

6. We take the half pound of bacon and cut it in very 
.thin slices, the same size as the strips of tripe. 

7. We take one shalot, peel it, and two or three sprigs of 
parsley, and chop them up finely on a board. 

8. We lay one slice of bacon on each strip of tripe,. 
sprinkle a little chopped shalot and parsley over each slice of 
bacon, roll them up together, and tie them firmly round 
with a piece of string. 

9. We take the carrot, wash it, scrape it clean with a 
knife, and cut it in slices. 

10. We take the half onion and the other sJialot, peel 
them, and cut them in slices. 

11. We take a sprig of marjoram, tJiyme, and a bay -leaf 
and tie them tightly together with a piece of string. 

12. We take the mnsJirooms, wash them, and cut off the 
end of the stalks. 

13. We arrange the rolls of tripe and bacon in a stewpan, 

14. We also add all the vegetables and the herbs. 

15. We pour in a pint of stock, and put the stewpan on. 
the fire. 

16. W T hen it just boils we remove the stewpan to the 
side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for two 
hours. 

17. After that time we take out the rolls of tripe and put 
them on a plate. 

18. We take a strainer, hold it over a basin, and strain 
the stock. 

19. We put two on) ices of butter into another stewpan, 
and put it on the fire to melt. 

20. When the butter is melted we add to it one ounce of 
four, and mix them smoothly together. 

21. We now add the stock, and stir it over the fire until 
it boils and thickens. 

22. We take half a lemon and squeeze \\\z juice of it into 
the sauce. 

X.B. We must be careful not to let any ///>.? fall in. 



loS National Training Sc /wo I for Cookery. 

23. \Ye also stir in one tablespoon fid of Harvey sauce, and 
one tablcspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and season the sauce 
with pepper and salt. 

24. \Ve now place in the rolls of tripe, and let them 
warm through. 

25. For serving we arrange the rolls of tripe in a circle 
on a hot dish, with some puree of carrot, or spinach (see 
" Vegetables," Lessons Nos. 6 and 8), or with a mixture of 
vegetables (according to taste), in the centre, and pour the 

.sauce round the edge. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Braised Fillet of Veal. 109 

BRAISED FILLET OF VEAL. 

Average cost of "A Braised Fillet of Veal" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

35 Ibs. of the fillet of veal ................ 3 6 

\ Ib. of the fat of bacon .................. o 6 



A bouquet garni of parsley, thyme, and ) t 

bayleaf .......................... j 

1 onion ................................ o o 

3 pints of good stock .................... i 10 

2 young carrots ........................ o i 

Celery and turnip ...................... ) ,. 

Salt.. ......... ....................... / 

6 
Time required (the stock should be made the day before], about one hour and a half.. 



Now we will show you how to Braise a Fillet of Veal. 

1. We take three and a half pounds of the fillet of veal, 
put it on a board, and cut off all the skin with a sharp knife. 

2. We lard this fillet in the same way as for fillets of 
beef (see " Entree," Lesson No. 3, from Note 3 to Note 7). 

3. We place the fillet carefully in a clean braising pan. 

4. We add a bouquet garni, consisting of a sprig of parsley,. 
tJiyme, and a bay-leaf, all tied neatly and tightly together. 

5. We take two young carrots, wash them, scrape them 
clean with a knife and cut them in halves. 

6. We take an onion and a quarter of a turnip, and peel 
them carefully. 

7. We add these vegetables, and half a stick of celery, to- 
the fillet in the braising pan. 

8. We now pour in about three pints of good stock (the 
stock must not cover the meat}, put the stewpan on the fire,, 
and baste the fillet continually. 

9. We take a piece of kitchen paper, cut a round to the 
size of the braising pan and butter it. 

10. As soon as the stock boils, we lay this round of paper 
on the fillet in the stewpan. 

N;B. This paper is to prevent the meat from browning too quickly. 



TIO National Training School for Cookery. 

11. We keep the lid of the braising 1 pan on, and place it 
in a hot oven, and let it cook slowly for one hour and a 
quarter. 

12. \Ve must watch it, frequently raise the paper, and 
baste the 1'cal with the stock. 

13. We take the ^cal out of the braising pan, and place 
it on a hot dish. 

N.R. We must stand this dish on the hot plate, or near the fire, to keep 
warm until the sauce is ready. 

14. We put the braising pan on the fire and let the sauce 
reduce to a half glaze. 

15. We then strain the glaze round the meat. 

16. We serve it with dressed spinach (see "Vegetables," 

"Lesson No. 8), or with dressed carrots a)id turnips (sec 
""Vegetables," Le >n N<. 



Now it is finished. 



L cssons on Cooking Meat. Roast Bulloctis Hea rt. r i r 



ROAST BULLOCK'S HEART. 

Average cost of a " Bullock's Heart stuffed" and " 

Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 



" Bullock's Heart." 

s. d. 

i bullock's heart 2s. or 2 6 

: { Ib. of suet, o 2 

| Ib. of bread crumbs o o| 

i gill (\ pint) of milk o OT 

Salt and pepper 

i tablespoonful of chopped 

parsley 

i dessertspoonful of chopped \ o 
mixed herbs : thyme, 
lemon thyme, and marjo- I 

ram ' 

-% Ib. dripping 



O 2 



"Sauce." 

s. d. 

i small onion o o\ 

Salt and pepper I 

-J oz. of flour j 

i oz. of butter o 

i dessertspoonful of mush- 
room ketchup 



O 0| 

I 

O Or 



O 2 



3 o 



Time required, about two hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to stuff a Bullock's Heart 
and roast it. 

1. We must first prepare the fire for roasting, as described 
in " Roasting," Lesson No. I. 

2. We take a bullock's heart, and wash it thoroughly in 
salt and ivater. 

3. We must be careful to cleanse all the cavities of the 
heart, and to remove all the blood. 

4. We take it out of the salt and water, and put it into 
a basin of clean water and wash it again, until it is quite 
clean. 

5. We now wipe it thoroughly dry with a cloth. 

6. If the heart is not quite dry, it will not roast 
properly. 

7. We put the heart on a board, and with a sharp knife 
cut off \hzjlaps, or deaf ears (as they are called). 

j^B. These \ve should put aside for gravy. 



ii2 National Training School for Cookery. 

8. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, 
cut away all the skin, and chop it up as finely as possible. 

9. We should sprinkle a little flour over the suet to pre- 
vent it from sticking to the board or knife. 

10. We grate some bread crumbs with a grater on to the 
board. 

11. We take tii'o or three sprigs of parsley, wash them in 
cold water and dry them in a cloth. 

12. We put the parsley on a board and chop it up as 
finely as possible ; when chopped there should be about 
one tablespoonfuL 

13. We take a sprig of thyme, lemon thyme, and marjoram, 
rub them through a strainer, or chop them up finely on a 
board ; there should be about one dessertspoonful of the- 
mixed herbs. 

14. We now mix the chopped suet and bread crumbs 
Avell together. 

15. We then add the parsley and the herbs, one tcaspoon- 
ful of salt, and pepper to taste, and mix them thoroughly 
together. 

16. We now mix it with one gill (a quarter of a pint) of 
milk. 

17. We take the heart and fill all the cavities with the 
stuffing, pressing it in as firmly as possible. 

N.B. If there is any stuffing over, it can be put aside for the sauce. 

18. We take a piece of kitchen paper, and grease it well 
Avith a piece of butter or dripping. 

19. We place this piece of greased paper over the top of 
the heart where the cavities are, and tie it on tightly with 
string. 

20. We put the roasting screen in front of the fire, to 
keep off the draught, and to keep in all the heat. 

X.D. A chair with a cloth over it, would answer the purpose if there was 
no screen. 

21. We put the dripping-pan, or a large dish, down on a 
stand within the screen close to the fire, with the dripping 
ladle or a large spoon in it. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Roast Bullocks Heart. 113 

22. We hang the roasting-jack up from the mantelpiece 
over the dripping-pan. 

N.B. If there is no roasting jack, we can manage with a strong piece of 
worsted tied to a poor man's jack. 

23. We must wind up the jack with its key, before we 
put the meat on. 

24. We take the hook of the roasting-jack and pass it 
through the heart, and hang it on the jack or the worsted. 

N.B. If the heart is hanging from a piece of worsted, we must twist the 
worsted occasionally to make it. go round. 

25. We put about one ounce of clarified dripping into the 
dripping-pan and baste the heart occasionally. 

26. It will take about two hours to roast. 

27. We now take the deaf ears out of the water and put 
them into a saucepan with one pint of cold water. 

28. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

29. We take one small onion, peel it, and cut it in 
quarters. 

30. When the water boils, we put in the onion, and a 
little salt and pepper to taste. 

31. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
put the lid on, and let it stew gently until five minutes 
before the heart is done. 

32. We must watch it and skim it occasionally. 

33. After that time we strain the liquor into a basin. 

34. We wash out the saucepan, and put in it one ounce 
of butter and put it on the fire to melt. 

35. When the butter is melted, we add one tablcspoonful 
of four, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden 
spoon. 

36. We now pour in by degrees the liquor and stir 
smoothly until it boils and thickens. 

37. We then stand the saucepan by the side of the fire 
until required for use. 

38. When the heart is roasted, we take it down, place 

the heart on a hot dish and draw out the hook. 

H 



1 1 4 National Training School for Cookery. 

39. We cut the string and take off the greased paper. 

40. If there was any stuffing over, we now stir it into 
the sauce ; we also add one dessertspoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. 

N.B. If the flavouring of mushroom ketchup is disliked, it may be omitted. 

41. \Ye pour the sauce round the Jieart on the dish, and 
it is then ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Cornish Pasties. 115 

CORNISH PASTIES. 

Average cost of " Cornish Pasties" (about 12). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

\ Ib. of buttock steak or beef skirt o 5 

2 Ib. of potatoes o OT 

i onion o o| 

i Ib. of flour o a| 

i Ib. of dripping o 4 

Salt and pepper ) , 

i teaspoonful of baking powder j 

i oj 
Time required about one hour. 



Now we will show you how we make Cornish Pasties. 

1. We take half a pound of buttock steak or beef skirt, put 
it on a board, and cut it up into small pieces. 

2. We take half a pound of potatoes, wash and peel them, 
put them on a board, and cut them up into small pieces. 

3. We take one small onion, peel it, put it on a board, 
and chop it up as finely as possible. 

4. We put one pound of flour into a basin with a little 
salt, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

5. We put in half a pound of dripping, and rub it well 
into ^^ flour with our hands. 

6. We now add enough cold water to mix it into a 
stiffpaste. 

7. ^NQ flour a board and turn ih^ paste on to it. 

8. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll the paste out 
Into a thin sheet, about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 

9. We cut the paste into pieces about six or seven indies 
square. 

10. We place a little of the meat and potato in the centre 
of each square, sprinkle over it a little pepper and salt, and 
a very little of the chopped onion. 

11. We fold ^LQ paste over the meat, joining it by pressing 
the edges together with our thumb and finger. 

H 2 



n6 National Training School for Cookery. 

12. We grease a baking tin and put the pasties on it. 

N.B. If there is no baking tin we should grease the shelf in the oven to- 
prevent the pasties from sticking. 

13. We put the tin into the oven to bake for from Jiaif 
an Jtonr to three quarters of an hour. 

14. For sen-ing, we put the pasties on a dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons OH Cooking Meat. Grilled Steak. 117 



A GRILLED STEAK. 

Average cost of '' Grilled Steak." 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 lb. rump steak 8 

Lemon, pepper, and salt i 

Butter and salad oil i 



10 
Time required about ten minutes. 



Now we will show you how to Grill a Steak (either beef 
or rump steak will do, but the latter is more tender). 

1. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it, dry it well 
in a cloth, and put it on a board. 

2. We must chop the parsley up very fine with a knife. 

3. We take a quarter of an ounce of butter and mix it 
well with the chopped parsley. 

4. We sprinkle over it pepper and salt (according to 
taste), and six drops of lemon juice. 

5. We make it all up into a small pat. 

6. We take half a pound of rump steak, half an inch in 
thickness. 

7. We pour about a tablespoonful of salad oil on to a plate. 

8. We dip both sides of the steak into the oil. 

9. We take a gridiron and warm it well by the fire. 

10. We place the oiled steak on the gridiron, and hang it 
on the bars of the stove close to the fire to cook quickly. 

N.B. If the meat is at all frozen it must be warmed gradually through, 
before putting it quite near the fire, or it will be tough. 

11. We must turn the gridiron with the steak occa- 
sionally ; it will take from ten to twelve minutes, according 
to the brightness and heat of the fire. 

12. When the steak is sufficiently cooked, we must place 
it on a hot dish ; and we should be careful not to stick 



iiS National Training School for Cookery. 

the fork into the meat (or the gravy will run out, but into 
the fat). 

13. We take the pat of green butter and put it on the 
, spreading it all over with a knife. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Liver and Bacon. 119 

LIVER AND BACON. 

Average cost of " Liver and Bacon? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 Ibs. sheep's liver i 4 

i Ib. bacon o 10 

i dessertspoonful of flour \ , 

i small onion j 

Time required about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to cook Liver and Bacon. 

1. We take one pound of bacon, put it on a board, and cut 
it in thin slices. 

2. We cut the rind off each .slice of bacon. 

3. We put these slices of bacon into a frying-pan. 

4. We put the frying-pan on the fire to fry the bacon. 
It will take about ten minutes. 

N.B. If the bacon is not very fat, we must put a small piece of dripping in 
the frying-pan with the bacon. 

5. We should turn it when one side is fried. 

6. We now take a sheep's liver (it will weigh about 
two pounds), put it on a board, and cut it in slices. 

7. We put about tivo tablespoonsfnl of flour on a plate. 

8. We dip the slices of liver into the flour, and flour 
them well on both sides. 

9. When the bacon is fried we take it out of the frying- 
pan and put it on a warm dish. 

10. We stand the dish near the fire to keep warm. 

11. We put the slices of liver in the frying-pan, a few at 
a time, as they must not be on the top of each other. 

N.B. If the flavour of onion is liked, a small onion, peeled, and cut in slices, 
might be fried with the liver. 

12. The liver will take about a quarter of an hour to fry. 

13. We should watch it occasionally, and turn it once. 

14. To see when the liver is sufficiently cooked we 



I2O National Training School for Cookery. 

should cut a slice; the inside should be of a brownish 
colour. 

. 15. When the liver is all cooked we should place it on 
the dish with the bacon. 

16. We put a dessertspoonful of flour in a cup, and mix it 
into a smooth paste with nearly a gill (quarter of a pint) of 
water. 

17. We pour \\\cj?onr and icater into the frying-pan and 
stir it until it boils and thickens. 

18. We pour this sauce over the liver and bacon. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Beef Steak Pie. 121 

MEAT PIE (BEEF STEAK). 

Average cost of a " Meat Pie r ' (in a quart dish). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

IT Ib. buttock steak i 3 

| Ib. bullock's kidney o 6 

Seasoning o o\ 

i Ib. flour o 2j 

5 Ib. clarified dripping o 4 

i teaspoonful baking powder o oj 



2 4 

Time required about two hours and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pie. 

1. We take one and a Jialf pound of buttock steak, put it 
on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 

2. We should cut away all the skin. 

3. We take half a pound of bullocks kidney, put it on a 
plate, and cut it in slices. 

4. We put one tablespoonful of flour, one teaspoonful of 
salt, and a teaspoonful of pepper on to a plate, and mix 
them well together. 

5. We dip each slice of meat and kidney into the season- 
ing, and roll them up into little rolls. 

6. We arrange these rolls of meat and kidney in a quart 
pie dish, and fill up the dish two-thirds with water. 

7. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 

8. We add one teaspoonful of baking powder and half a 
saltspoonful of salt to the flour, and mix them well together. 

9. We take half a pound of clarified dripping, cut it in 
small pieces, and rub it well into ft\z flour with our hands. 

N.B. We should be careful that there are no lumps of dripping in the flour. 

10. We then add by degrees enough cold water to make 
it into a stiff paste. 

11. We take a rolling-pin m& flour it. We also sprinkle 
flour on the board, and flour our hands to prevent \hzpaste 

from sticking. 



122 National Training School for Cookery. 

- . 

12. We take the paste out of the basin and put it on a 
board. 

13. We roll out the paste once to the shape of the pie dish, 
only rather larger, and to the thickness of about one-third 
of an incJi. 

14. We wet the edge of the dish with water. 

15. We take a knife, dip it m flour, and cut a strip of the 
paste the width of the edge of the pie dish, and place it 
round the edge of the dish. 

N.B. We should cut this strip of paste from round the edge of the paste, 
leaving the centre piece the size and shape of the top of the pie dish. 

16. We wet the edge of the paste with water. 

17. We take the remaining paste and place it over the 
pie dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the 
edge. 

N.P.. \Ve must be very careful not to break the paste. 

18. We take a knife, clip it in flour, and trim off all the 
rough edges of \\\v paste round the edge of the dish. 

19. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we 
make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the 
paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 

N.B. We can ornament the top of the pie with any remaining paste to our 
fancy. 

20. We make a hole with the knife in the centre of the 
pie to let out the steam while the/vV is baking. 

X.B. If there was not an escape for the steam it would sodden the inside of 
the crust, and so prevent it from baking properly. 

21. We put the pie into the oi'en to bake gently for two 
hours. We must watch it occasionally, and turn it to 
prevent its burning. It should become a pale brown. 

N.B. Meat pies should be put in the hottest part of the oven first, which, in 
most ovens, is the top, to make the crust light, and then put in a cooler 
part to cook the meat thoroughly. 

N.B. This pie could be made with veal or mutton instead of steak. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Beef Steak Pudding. 123 

MEAT PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Meat Pudding " (a quart basin.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. d. 

6 oz. of suet o 3! 

i Ib. of flour o 2j 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder o o^ 

Seasoning o Oj 

i| Ib. of buttock steak, lod. per Ib i 3 

2 Ib. bullock's kidney, is. per Ib o 6 

^ 3z 
Time required about two hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Meat Pudding. 

1. We take a large saucepan full of cold water, and put 
it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take six ounces of suet and put it on a board. 

3. We take a knife and cut away all the skin, and chop 
up the suet as finely as possible, and sprinkle a \\\.\\e flour 
over the suet to prevent its sticking. 

4. We put one pound of flour into a basin, and add to it 
a. teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of salt 
and mix all well together. 

5. We now add the chopped suet and rub it well into the 
flour with our hands. 

N.B. We should be careful not to leave any lumps of suet. 

6. We then add by degrees about half a pint of cold water 

to make it into a paste ; we should mix it well. 

7. We put one teaspoonful of salt and one teaspoonful of 
pepper on a plate, and mix them together. 

8. We take one pound and a half of buttock steak, put it 
on a board, and cut it in slices about three inches long and 
two inches broad. 

N.B. We should cut away all the skin. 

9. We take half a pound of bullock's kidney, put it on a 
board, and cut it in slices. 



124 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We dip each slice of meat and kidney into the plate 
of seasoning. 

11. We take a quart basin and grease it well inside with 
dripping. 

12. We take a rolling pin andjfo///' it ; we also sprinkle a 
very little flour on the board to prevent \\\z paste sticking. 

N.B. In making paste \ve should always keep our hands well floured to 
prevent its sticking to them. 

13. We take the/vwV out of the basin and put it on the 
board. 

14. We cut off about one-third of the paste, and lay it 
aside for the cover or top of the pudding. 

15. We roll out the remainder of the paste to a round 
twice the size of the top of the basin ; it should be about 
one-third of an incJi in thickness. 

16. We line the basin inside smoothly with the/w/V. 

17. We place the slices of meat and kidney in the basin, 
fitting them neatly in. 

18. We pour in about one gill and a half of water t so as 

to fill the basin to within half an inch of the top. 

19. We roll the remaining pieces tf paste to a round, the 
size of the top of the basin, to about a quarter of an incJi in 
thickness. 

20. We wet the edge of \\\c paste in the basin with cold 
7cY7/tv, and cover over the top of the basin with the round 
Q{ paste. 

21. We must join the paste together at the edge of the 
basin, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 

22. We take a knife, yKp&r it, and trim the edges of the 
paste neatly round. 

23. We take a small pudding cloth, wring it out in warm 
water, andjfour it. 

24. We put this cloth over the top of the basin, tying it 
on tightly with a piece of string under the rim of the basin. 

25. We tie the four corners of the cloth together over 
the top of the pudding. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Beef Steak Pudding. 125 

26. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the pudding and let it boil for tivo hours. 

N.B. The lid should be on the saucepan. 

N.B. We should keep a kettle of boiling water and fill up the saucepan, as 
the water in it boils away. 

27. After that time we take the pudding out of the sauce- 
pan and take off the cloth. 

28. We place a hot dish on the top of the pudding, turn 
the basin and dish quite over, and carefully raising the 
basin, we should leave ^& pudding in the middle of the dish 
unbroken. 

N.B. This pudding might be made of beef skirt or Australian beef. 

Now it is finished. 



126 National Training School for Cookery. 



PIG'S FRY. 

Average cost of this dish, i.e., "Poor Man's Goose" (i quart 

dish) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i Ib. of pig's fry 6 

z\ Ibs. of potatoes 2} 

i onion o\ 

Sage and seasoning o\ 

Total 9* 

Time required about one hour and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to cook Pigs Fry "Poor 

Man" s Goose." 

1. We take tico and a Jialf pounds of potatoes, and put 
them in a basin of cold water. 

2. We take a scrubbing brush and scrub and wash the 
potatoes well. 

3. We put \\\c potatoes into a saucepan of cold water. 

4. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

5. As soon as it boils we take the potatoes out of the 
water (N.B.--This is called par-boiling potatoes}, we peel 
them, and cut them in slices with a sharp knife. 

6. We take one onion and peel it. 

7. We take two or three sage-leaves and put them on a 
board. 

8. We chop up the onion and sage together on the board 
Avith a sharp knife. 

9. We take one pound of pig s fry and cut it in small 
pieces. 

10. We take a quart pie-dish and grease the dish with 
dripping or fat. 

11. We put a layer of sliced potatoes in the bottom of the 
pie-dish. 

12. We sprinkle a little of the chopped sage and onion, 
pepper and salt, over the potatoes. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Pig's Fry. 127 

13. We now put a layer of the pig's fry. 

14. We sprinkle a little of the chopped sage and onion, 
pepper and salt, over the pig's fry. 

15. Now we add another layer of sliced potatoes, and 
sprinkle them with a little of the chopped sage and onion, 
pepper and salt. 

16. We put in another layer of pig's fry, and sprinkle 
the remainder of the chopped sage and onion, and a little 
pepper and salt on the top. 

17. We cover these layers with the rest of the sliced 
potatoes. 

18. We now fill up the pie-dish with water for gravy. 

19. We take the skin usually sent with the pig's fry and 
put it over the top of the pie-dish. 

SO. If the skin is not sent we must take a piece of whity- 
brown paper and grease it with some dripping or fat, and 
put that over the pie-dish instead. 

21. We put the pie-dish into a moderate oven to bake 
for from three quarters of an hour to one hour. 

Now it is finished. 



128 National Training School far Cookery. 

BOILED PIG'S HEAD (salted) WITH 

ONION SAUCE. 

Average cost of " Pig's Head' ^d. or 6d. per Ib. 

INGREDIENTS. 

For " Brazil." For " Onion Sauce." 

s. if. d. 

\ a pig's head i 3 3 onions i 

3 gills of milk \\ 

A dessertspoonful of flour o} 



o i 



40 peppercorns 

2 blades of mace 

4 cloves 

12 allspice 

A bunch of herbs ) 

2 large onions I 



\ oz. of butter 
Pepper and salt 






3i 



Time required (after salting) for boiling pigs head about /T..V ho:ir< ; for 

hi to bra- oi, /iv<> hours. 



Now we will show you how to boil Pig^s Head. 

1. We take \\ pi^s head, wash it thoroughly in plenty of 
tepid water. 

2. \Ye take out the brains and throw them away. 

3. We cut out the little veins and all the splinters of bone. 

4. \Ye wash the head in all parts with plenty of salt, 
thoroughly cleansing it from blood. 

6. \Ve lay the head in piekle (sec Pickle for Meat) for 
three days. 

6. When the head is salted, we put it into a saucepan 
with cold water enough to cover it. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

8. When it boils we draw the saucepan to the side of the 
fire, and let it simmer gently for from one hour and a half 
to two hours, according to the size and age of the pig. 

N.B. Boiled pig* s head is eaten with boiled rabbit, or with veal, or with 
CIIIOH saitcc. 

X.B. If preferred the pi^'s head can be made into brawn (sec belou). 

For making Onion Sauce, 

9. We take three or four onions, peel them, and cut them 
in quarters. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Pig's Head. 129 

10. We put them into a saucepan with water enough to 
cover them. 

11. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil until the 
onions are quite tender. 

12. We then strain them off, throw the water away, put 
the onions on a board, and chop them up small. 

13. We throw the onions into a saucepan with three gills 
{one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk, put it on the fire, 
and let it come to the boil. 

14. We put a dessertspoonful of four into a basin and 
mix it with half an ounce of butter into a paste with a knife. 

15. We stir this paste smoothly into the boiling milk and 
' .onions, and continue to stir it until it boils. 

16. We season the sauce with pepper and salt to taste, 
and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep 
warm till required for use. 

17. We take a grater and grate some bread crumbs on to 
a plate. 

18. We put the plate in the oven or in a Dutch oven to 
brown the bread crumbs. 

19. When \hz pig s head is sufficiently boiled we take it 
out of the saucepan and put it on a hot dish. 

20. We take out the half tongue, skin it, and put it back 
on the dish with the head. 

21. We sprinkle {he browned bread crumbs over the/^V 
head, and pour the onion sauce round it, or, if preferred, it 
may be served separately in a sauce boat. 



For making the pig's head into Braivn. 

1. We salt and boil the pig's head in the same way as 
above from Note i to Note 8. 

2. When the/^\r head is sufficiently boiled we take it 
out of the saucepan and put it on a board. 

3. We cut all the meat off the bones, and cut it into 
small pieces the shape of dice ; we also cut up the ear and 
the tongue (the tongue should be previously skinned.) 



130 National Training School for Cookery. 

4. \Ve put the bones back into the saucepan with a quart 
of the liquor (in which the Jiead was boiled), foity pepper- 
cdrns, tico blades of mace, four cloves ^ and ticeli'c allspice. 

5. \Ve also add a buncJi of Jierbs, namely, a sprig of 
marjoram^ thyme, and tico bay leares tied tightly together. 

6. We take tico onions, peel them, cut them in quarters, 
and put them into the saucepan. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it come to 
the boil, we should remove the lid and let \fatliquor reduce 
for about half an hour. 

8. After that time we strain the liquor into a basin. 

9. We pour one pint and a half of the strained liquor back 
into the saucepan and put it on the fire. 

10. We now put the pieces of meat into the liquor, season 
it with pepper ('and salt if necessary) to taste, and let it come 
to the boil. 

11. We take a basin or tin mould, rinse it in cold water. 

12. We then pour the meat and the liquor together into 
the wet basin or tin, and stand it aside to get cold and set. 

13. For serving we turn the braicn out of the basin on 
to a dish. 

Nw it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Pork Pie. 131 

PORK PIE. 

Average cost of "Pork Pie' (i Ib.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

\ Ib. lard o 3 

i Ib. pork (either loin or leg) o 10 

Seasoning o o\ 

i Ib. of flour o 2^ 

i egg o i 



Time required two hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Pork Pie. 

1. We put a quarter of a pound of lard and a quarter of 
a pint of cold water into rather a large saucepan. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

N.B. We must watch it, as if it boils over it will catch fire. 

3. We take one pound of lean pork (cut either from the loin 
or from the leg), put it on a board, and cut it up in pieces 
of about one incJi square. 

4. We put one pound of flour into a basin. 

5. When the lard and water are quite boiling, we pour 
them into the middle of the flour and mix them well with 
a spoon. 

6. When the paste is cool enough we should knead it well 
with our hands. 



N.B. More water must not be added, as the paste is required to be 
rather stiff. 

7. We take the paste out of the basin, and put it on a 
floured board. 

8. We cut off a quarter of tJie paste, and the remainder 
we mould into the shape of a basin, pressing it inside with 
one hand and supporting it outside with the other. 

9. We should shape it as evenly as possible, and it should 
be about one-third of an incJi in thickness all round. 

10. We should take a knife, flour it, and cut the top of 
the shape level all round. 

I 2 



132 National Training School for Cookery. 

11. We dip the pieces of pork into cold water, then season 
them well with pepper and salt. 

12. \Ye should put these pieces inside the mould of paste 
as close together as possible. 

N.Pi. The pie can be flavoured, if liked, with chopped sage, about a tea- 
spoonful sprinkled well amongst the pieces of pork. 

13. We take the remainder of the paste and roll it out 
(with a floured rolling pin), and cut it to the size of the top 
of the mould and to about the thickness of one-third of an 
inch. 

14. We take an egg and break it into two cups, dividing 
thejWX* from the icliite. 

15. We take a paste brush, dip it into the ichitc of egg, 
and egg the edge of the mould ^ paste. 

16. We take the piece of paste and put it over the top of 
the/vV, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 

17. We cut little leaves out of the remaining paste, dip 
them in the icliitc of t/ie egg, and stick them on the top of 
the pie. 

18. We wet the pic all over with thej'^/X' of egg. 

19. We put the pie in a moderate oven to bake for ti^o 
hours. 

\- >w it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Sausage Rolls. 133 



SAUSAGE ROLLS. 

Average cost of " Sausage Rolls. " (about one dozen) made 
with cooked or uncooked meat. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
\ Ib. of cooked (or uncooked 5^.) meat ...... . . 3! 

i Ib. flour ................................. -2\ 

\ Ib. dripping .............................. 4 

i teaspoonful baking powder ............. 

Seasoning ............................... 

J a shalot ................................ > I 

i small onion ........................... 

4 sage leaves ........................... 

i egg ...................................... i 



Time required half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Sausage Rolls. 

1. We take half 'a pound of 'meat (cooked or uncooked], put 
it on a board, take away all the fat, and mince the meat up 
as finely as possible. 

2. We take the mince meat, put it in a basin, and season 
it well with pepper and salt. 

3. We take four sage leaves, put them on a board, and 
chop them up as finely as possible with a knife. 

4. We take half a shalot and one small onion, peel them, 
and chop them up upon the board. 

5. We mix the chopped sage, shalot, and onion well into 
the 'mince meat with a spoon. 

6. We put one pound of four into a basin. 

7. We add to it one teaspoonful of baking powder, a 
quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and half a pound of 
clarified dripping. 

8. We rub the dripping well into the flour with our 
hands. 

N.B. We must mix it thoroughly and be careful not to leave any lumps. 

9. We add enough zvater to the flour to make it into a 
stiff paste. 



134 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We flour the paste board. 

11. We turn the paste out on the board. 

X.B. We should divide \.\\z pjstc in two, so as not to handle it too much. 

12. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out each 
portion into a thin sheet, about one-eight Ji of an inch in 
thickness. 

13. We cut thc/vDvV into pieces about six inches square. 

14. We should collect all the scraps of paste (so that 
none is wasted), fold them together, and roll them out and 
cut them into square 

N. I'..-- There should l>c about M : juste. 

15. We should put about a tablespoonful of the mince 
meat and herbs into the centre of each square ^1 paste. 

16. We fold \\\c paste round the meat, joining it smoothly 
down the centre, and pressing the etuis f the paste together 
with our finger and thumb. 

17. We take a baking tin, grease it well, and place the 
sausage rolls on it. 

18. We break one egg on to a plate, and beat it slightly 
with a knife. 

19. We take a paste brush, dip it in the egg\ and paint 
over the tops of the rolls. 

20. We place the tin in a hot oven to bake to? fifteen 
minutes if the meat is already cooked, but if raw meat is 
used, then Jtalf an Jionr is required. 

N.H. \\'e should look at them oner or twice, and turn them if necessary, so 
that they shall be equally bakrd. 

21. For serving we take the rolls oft" the tin and place 
them on a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Sea Pie. 135 

SEA PIE. 

Average cost of a " Sea Pie " (about two quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 Ibs. of buttock steak at lod i 8 

2 onions o i 

i small carrot o o| 

\ a turnip ) , 

Pepper and Salt } 

\ Ib. of flour o if 

i Ib. of suet i 

i teaspoonful of baking powder j 



Time required about two hours. 

Now we will show you how to make a Sea Pie. 

1. We put two pounds of buttock steak on a board, and cut 
It in slices with a sharp knife. 

2. We take two onions, peel them, and slice them as 
thinly as possible. 

3. We take a small carrot and half a turnip, wash them, 
scrape the carrot clean with a knife, peel the turnips, and 
cut them in thin slices. 

4. We season the slices of meat with pepper and salt to 
taste. 

5. We put the slices of meat in layers in a two quart 
saucepan, sprinkling a little of the sliced vegetables on each 
layer of the meat. 

6. We pour in enough cold water just to cover the meat. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the 
boil, and then move it to the side of the fire to simmer. 

N.B. During this time we make the crust. 

8. We take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, 
cut away all the skin, and chop it up as finely as possible. 

9. We should sprinkle a little flour over the suet, to 
prevent it sticking to the board or knife. 

10. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, 



136 National Training School for Cookery. 

and mix into it Iialf a saltspoonful of salt, and one teaspoonful 
of baking powder. 

11. We now put in the chopped suet and rub it well into 
theyftw with our hands. 

12. \Ye add sufficient cold water to mix it into a stiff 
paste. 

13. \Ve flour a board and turn \\\Q paste out on it. 

14. \Ye take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste 
to the size of the saucepan. 

15. This quantity of paste will roll out to the size of a 

t:co quart saucepan, so that if a smaller saucepan is used 
less paste will be required. 

16. \Ye put this/w.v/V over the meat in the saucepan, and 
let it simmer gently for one hour and half. 

N.B. The lid should 1 % on the >uucep;in. 

17. \Ve must watch it, and be careful to pass a knife 
round the sides of the saucepan, <>r thc/vw/V will stick. 

N.H. Sailors add si. -fscs to the//V when they cun get them. 

18. IMI- serving, A\'e carefully remove the crust, turn the 
meat, vegetables, and graiy on to a hot dish, and place the 
crust over it. 

X< >\v it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. Sheep's Head. 137 



SHEEP'S HEAD. 

Average cost of " Sheep's Head" consisting of i quart of 
broth and i dish of boiled sheep's head, with vegetables 
or browned sheep's head. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

1 sheep's head \ o 

Salt } , 

4 peppercorns j 4 

2 turnips o i 

i carrot o oi 

i onion o o^ 

\ small head of celery o i 

1 sprig of thyme ) i^ 

2 sprigs of parsley j 

Toasted crusts of bread o o\ 

2 oz. of flour o 05 

i oz. clarified dripping or J oz. butter o o 

J* 

Time required (after the sheep's head has been soaked for 2 hours] one and a half hours. 



Now we will show you how to cook Sheep's Head. 

1. We take a sheep's head (which has been previously 
chopped half way through by the butcher) and put it in a 
basin of warm water, with a dessertspoonful of salt. 

2. We should wash the head thoroughly, carefully re- 
moving the brains (which should be put aside) and all the 
splinters of the bones. 

3. We should wash away all the blood and matter from 
t\\Q passages of the nose, tJiroat, and ears, and clean round 
the gums. 

N.B. If this is not thoroughly done the sheep's head will be spoiled. 

4. We now put the sheep's head in a basin of salt and 
ivater, to soak for tivo hours. 

5. After the head has been soaked, we take it out oi the 
water and carefully cut the tongue out with a knife. 

6. We tie the head together with a piece of string, to 
keep it in shape. 

7. We put the head and the tongue in a large saucepan. 



138 National Training School for Cookery. 

8. We pour in sufficient lukcicarm icater to cover the 
head. 

9. We add a good saltspoonful of salt and ^peppercorns. 

N.H. If liked, one ounce of pearl barley or rice, previously washed, may be 
now added. 

10. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil very 
gently for I hour. 

11. \Vc must watch it and skim it occasionally with a 
spoon, removing as much of they/?/ as possible. 

12. We take /:.'<> turnips, wasli them in cold water, peel 
them, and cut them in quarters with a sharp knife. 

13. We- take a carrot, scrape it clean with a knife, and 
cut it in pieces. 

14. We take a good-sized onion, peel it, and cut it in 
quarters. 

15. We take half a small Jicad of celery and tico sprigs of 
parsley and \\asji them in cold water. 

16. When the sheep's head has boiled for an hour we 
should add all these ^'cgctabLs. 

17. We also add one sprig of thyme. 

18. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire 
and let it simmer gently for one hour and a half. 

N.I',. Thr l.d should lx- on the saucepan. 

19. Half an Jiour before the sliccp* s head is finished, we 
wash the brains well in cold water (removing all the skin). 

20. \\ e tie the brains up in a piece of muslin and put 
them in the saucepan with the head, to boil for ten minutes. 

21. We put one ounce of clarified dripping, or half an ounce 
of butter, into a small saucepan. 

22. We put the saucepan on the fire to melt the drip- 
ping, and then add Jialf an ounce of four and mix them well 
together with a spoon. 

23. We take one gill (a quarter of a pint) of broth from the 
saucepan in which the head is boiling, and add it by degrees 
to the sauce, stirring it as smoothly as possible until it boils 
and thickens. 

24. We now move the saucepan to the side of the fire. 



Lessons ou Cooking Meat. Sheep's Head. 139 

A , 

25. When the brains have boiled for ten minutes we take 
them out of the saucepan, take them out of the muslin, and 
chop them up in small pieces with a knife. 

26. We add the brains to the sauce. 

27. When the sheep's head is sufficiently cooked we take 
it out of the saucepan, cut away the string, and place it on 
a warm dish. 

28. We take the tongue, skin it carefully, and place it on 
the same dish. 

29. We take out the turnips, put them in a basin, and 
mash them with a fork. 

30. We take out the carrot and arrange it alternately 
with the mashed turnips round the sJiecp's head. 

31. We take the brain sauce and pour it over the sheep's 
head. 

32. We should pour the broth carefully into a basin, 
without the bread or vegetables. 

N.B. Bread or vegetables should never be kept in broth, as they would turn 
it sour. 

33. We put the basin of broth away until required for 
use. 

N.B. All the fat should be removed from the broth before it is used. 

N.B. When the broth is required for use, a few toasted crusts of bread 
might be added, and a little chopped parsley. 

N.B. The fat from the broth should be melted down into dripping. 



N.B. If the sheep's head be preferred browned. 

1. We proceed as above (see from Note I to Note 17). 

2. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently for one hour. 

N.B. The lid should be on the saucepan. 

3. We take a piece of stale bread and grate a tablespoon- 

ful of bread crumbs with a grater. 

4. We mix with these crumbs a teaspoonful of parsley, 
and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs > chopped up finely. 

5. When the head has simmered for one hour, we take it 
out of the saucepan. 



140 National Training School for Cookery. 

. _% 

6. We cut the string round it, and lay it on a dish. 

7. We sprinkle the bread crumbs and herbs over the 
head, and put a few tiny pieces of dripping on it. 

8. We put the dish in the oven, or in front of the fire, for 
ten to fifteen minutes ; it will be then ready for serving". 

9. We take the brains and wash them well in cold 
water (removing all the skin). 

10. We tie the brains up in a piece of muslin and put 
them in the saucepan of broth (in which the s/ieefs head was 
boiled) to boil for ten minutes. 

N.B. For serving, the tongue should be skinned as above, and served 
separately with the brain sauce (see above from Note 21 to Note 27). 

11. We proceed with the brotli the same as above, from 
Note 32. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Meat. --Stewed Steak. 141 

STEWED STEAK. 

Average cost for " Stewing a Steak!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

i Ib. of rump steak i 4 

i carrot o i 

1 turnip o i 

2 sticks of celery | 

i onion j 

i oz. of butter o \\ 

i tablespoonful of flour I x 

Pepper and salt j 



Time required about one hour. 



Now we will show you how to Stew a Steak (either beef 
or rump steak will do, the latter is more tender). 

1. We take one pound of rump steak, one and a half inch 
in thickness, and put it on a board. 

2. We cut off all the skin and fat from the steak. 

3. We take one carrot, one turnip, and a few celery leaves, 
and wash them well in cold water. 

4. We take a sharp knife and scrape the carrot clean. 

5. We take the turnip, cut it in half (as not all will be 
required), and peel off the outside skin. 

6. We take a sharp knife and peel the carrot and turnip 
very thinly into ribbons, leaving just the centre part of each 
vegetable. 

7. We take one onion, peel it, and put it on a board. 

8. We shred the onion and celery. 

9. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and we put 
the steak in it to brown. 

10. We put the onion and celery, and the insides of the 
carrot and turnip (left after peeling), into the stewpan 
with the steak. 

11. We put the stewpan on the fire. 

12. W T e must look occasionally at the steak, and when it 



142 National Training School for Cookery. 

is sufficiently browned on one side we must turn it care- 
fully over to brown the other. 

13. When the steak is sufficiently browned on both sides, 
then put in the vegetables. 

14. We take a basin and put in it a tablespoonful of four, 
half a teaspoon/ill of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and 
mix them together with a wooden spoon, and one pint of 
i^ater or stock. 

15. We stir them all well together into a smooth sauce. 

16. We pour this sauce into the stewpan, with the steak and 
vegetables, and stir all together until it boils and thickens. 

17. We let it gently simmer one Jiour. 

18. We take the fat which we have cut oft" the steak and 
cut it into small pieces. 

19. We put the pieces of fat on a tin dish. 

20. We put the fat in the oven to cook till brown. 

N.P.. It is l>etu-r f<>r ^t<- 'k to cook the fat separately as it keeps the 

gr.ivy of tli<- >U-;ik frr<- from grra.se. 

21. We take the thin pealings from the carrot and turnip, 
and put them on a board and shred them finely with a 
sharp knife. 

22. We put these shredded vegetables into a small sauce- 
pan witli about & gill of cold water . 

23. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil until the 
vegetables are quite tender ; we must feel them with a fork. 

24. When the steak is sufficiently stewed, we must put 
it on a hot di^h. 

25. We take a strainer and strain the gravy, in which 
the steak has been stewed, over the steak. 

26. The stciced vegetables must be thrown away, as all 
the goodness is out of them. 

27. We take the tin dish out of the oven, and place the 
pieces of fat about on the steak. 

28. We take the boiled shredded vegetables and garnish 
the steak with them. 

N.P.. Any other vegetables can be used for garnishing, i.e., peas, French 
benns. asparagus, &c. 

Now it is finished. 



I 

Lessons on Cooking' Meat. Toad in the Hole. 143 
TOAD IN THE HOLE. 

Average cost of " Toad in tJie Hole" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

6 ozs. of flour o i 

i egg o i 

i pint of milk o 2 

IT Ibs. of meat (either beef or mutton) .. \ 
Seasoning j 

i 4 
Time required about one hour and three quarters. 



Now we will show you how to make Toad in the Hole. 

1. We put six ounces of flour into a basin, with half a 
saltspoonful of salt. 

2. We break one egg into tJie flour and stir in smoothly 
and by degrees one pint of milk. 

N.B. We must be careful that it is not lumpy. 

3. We should beat it up as much as possible, as it will 
make the batter lighter. 

4. We take one pound of meat, put it on a board, and cut 
it in neat pieces. 

N.B. Buttock steak, beef skirt, or any pieces of mutton might be used ; for 
instance, the short bones from the neck of mutton. Sausages or cold meat 
might very well be used. 

5. We take a pie dish or a tin and grease it inside with 
clarified dripping. 

6. We season the pieces of meat with pepper and salt+ 
and place them in the greased dish. 

7. We pour the batter over the meat, and put the dish in 
the oven to bake for one Jiour. 

8. After that time it is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



144 National Training School for Cookery. 



TRUSSING A FOWL FOR BOILING, 

Average cost of a " Boiled Fowl " and " Egg Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

i fowl 3 6 

i \ o/.. of butter o i J 

Stock or water 

i carrot , 

i small onion 

A bouquet of herbs , 

O 2 

i ox. of flour ) , 

i pint of milk I 

Gill of cn-.im . . 06 



o i 



4 
Time required about one hour and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to prepare a Fowl, and truss 
it for boiling. 

1. \Ye take a fowl that has been already plucked, and 
put it on a board. 

2. \Vc prepare it and clean it in the same way as 
described in ' Trussing a Fowl for Roasting," from Note i 
to Note 12. 

3. We take a sharp knife and cut off the claws, and the 
end of the legs of the /<>:..'/ to the first joint. 

4. We take a twist of paper or taper and light it. 

5. We take \\\\i fowl up by its legs, and hold the lighted 
paper under it to singe off the little hairs, 

6. We then hold the fowl up by its wings and singe the 
other end. 

N.B. We must be careful in singeing not to blacken or mark the fowl in 
any way. 

7. We turn thejfae//on its back with the tail towards us. 

8. We put our hands through the incision (made for 
drawing the fowl], and pass two fingers round the inside 
of the leg, so as to loosen the outside skin. 

9. We draw this outside skin right off the legs, and 
press the legs well into the sides of the fowl, forcing the 
breast up to give \\\cfowl a good shape. 



Cooking Poultry. Trussing Boiled Fowl. 145 

10. We pull this outside skin and turn it neatly inside 
the fowl over the joints of the legs. 

11. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the 
breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. 

12. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the 
neck. 

13. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck 
towards us. 

14. We take a trussing needle and thread it with fine 
twine. 

15. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it 
through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and 
out on the other side through the other thigh. 

16. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take 
the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the 
middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone, called 
the sidesman or stepmother's wing, catching up the skin 
which folds over the incision, and out through the other 
little bone and wing. 

17. We must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as 
firmly as possible at the side of the fowl. 

18. We turn the fowl over on its back, keeping the neck 
still towards us. 

19. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing 
the fowl), and lift up the end of the breast bone. 

20. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it 
through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over 
one leg, back through the body close to the back bone, and 
tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. 

21. We take a piece of kitchen paper and butter it well. 

22. We take this piece of buttered paper and wrap it 
well round the fowl. 

23. We take a large saucepan half full of hot second 
white stock or water, and put it on the fire. 

N.B. The reason why second white stock should be used is that the good- 
ness which comes from the fowl after boiling adds to the goodness of 
this stock, which can afterwards be used for soup. 

N.B. If hot water be used, the goodness which comes from the fowl after 
boiling is only wasted, as it is not of sufficient strength to make the large 
quantity of water of any use, 

K 



146 National Training School far Cookery. 

24. \Yhen the water is quite boiling, we place the fowl 
in the saucepan with its breast downwards. 

25. \Ye also put into the saucepan one carrot, which lias 
been scraped, a small onion, which has been peeled, and a 
bouquet of herbs for flavouring. 

26. The foicl will take from three-quarters of an Jionr to 
one Jionr to boil, according to its size. 

N.Il.V\'r inn-t not allow it to /W/ /;./, only to simmer. The saucepan 
should be at the side of the t 



Xow we must make the 1-'^' Sauce to be served with 
the boiled fowl. 

1. \Yc take a small saucepan full <f hot water, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

2. \Yhen the water i^ quite boiling, we put in two eggs 
to boil for ten minute*. 

3. \Yc take a stewpan and put in it one ounce, of butter 
and one ounce of Jionr. 

4. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 

5. \Ye pour in lialf a pint of milk. 

6. \Ye put the stewpan <>n the fire, and stir the mixture 
with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. 

7. \Ye must then remove the stewpan to the side of the 
fire until required for use. 

8. When the eggs are sufficiently boiled, we take them 
carefully out of the saucepan with a spoon. 

9. We take the eggs and knock them against the edge 
of a basin to break off all the shell. 

10. YYe take a small basin of cold water. 

11. We cut the eggs in half and take out the jW$\ 

12. We put the whites into cold water to prevent their 
turning yellow. 

13. We take the whites of tJic eggs out of the water and 
cut them to the shape of small dice. 

14. We add the pieces of white of egg to the sauce in the 
stewpan. 



Cooking Poultry. Trussing Boiled Fowl. 147 

15. We now add one gill of cream to the sauce. 

16. We move the stewpan to the centre of the fire, and 
stir well till it boils again. 

N.B. We must be careful in stirring not to break the pieces of egg. 

17. When the fowl is sufficiently boiled we take it out 
of the saucepan ; we take off the buttered paper, and place 
the/tfzt'/ on a hot dish. 

18. We take a knife and cut the twine, and draw it all 
out of the foivl. 

19. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the sauce 
over \\\z foivL 

0. We take a wire sieve with the hard boiled yolks of 
the eggs, place it over the fowl, and rub the yolks through 
on to the breast. 

N.B. The neck, gizzard, liver, heart, and claws of the fowl (namely the 
Giblets], should be put aside, and when properly prepared can be used 
for soup (see "Soups," Lesson No. 6), or should be put in the stock pot. 

N.B. To clean and prepare the giblets for use. 

A. We take the gizzard, cut it very carefully with a knife down the centre, 
where there is a sort of seam (we must be sure only to cut the first or 
outer skin), and draw off the outer skin without breaking the inside, 
which should be thrown away. 

B. We take the outer skin of the gizzard, the heart, and liver, wash them 
well in water, and dry them in a cloth. 

C. We take the neck, cut off the head, which is of no use, draw the skin 
off the neck, and wash the latter well in water, so as to remove the 
blood and any impurities. 

D. We put the claws and ends of legs in a basin of boiling water for some 
minutes, then take a knife, cut off the nails, and draw off the outer skin, 
which can be pulled off like a glove. 

Now it is finished. 



K 2 



148 National Training School for Cookery. 



TRUSSING A FOWL FOR ROASTING. 

Average cost 'of "Roasting a Foicl' and making "Bread 

Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. if. 

i fowl .................................. 3 6 

i oz. of butter .......................... o T { 

i penny roll ............................ o i 

i onion ................................ o ol 

| pint of milk ............................ o i 



i tablespoonful of cream .................. o i 



3 1 1 V 



Time rcqit. ut three t/ii^rtfrs <_/".;;/ hour. 



\uw we will show you how to prepare a I i \>\d and truss 
it for roasting. 

1. \Ve take a suitable fowl that has been already plucked, 
and put it on a board. 

2. We turn thefow/on its breast, and make an incision 
of an inch long down the neck, three inches below the head. 

3. \Ye pass our thumb round this incision and loosen the 
skin. 

4. We take a sharp knife and put it under the skin, and 
cut oft" the neck as near the body as possible. 

5. We must be careful in cutting off the neck to leave a 
piece of skin to fold over on to the back of the neck and 
cover the opening. 

6. We take out the crop which lies in the front of the neck. 

7. Then with our finger we loosen the liver and the 
other parts at the breast end. 

8. We must now turn the foii'l round, and make an inci- 
sion at the vent, about one inc/i and a half Vide. 

9. We must put our hand through this incision into the 
body and draw out all the interiors carefully, so as not to 
mess t\\e fou'l. 



Cooking Poultry. Trussing Roast Fowl. 149 

10. We must be very careful not to break the gall bag, 
or the liver will be spoiled. 

N.B. We take the liver, heart, and gizzard, and put them in a basin of 
water, with about half a teaspoonful of salt ; the other interiors should 
be thrown away. 

N.B. We should look through the fowl from one end to the other and see 
it is perfectly cleared out. 

11. We take a damp cloth and wipe out the inside of the 
fowl to clean it thoroughly. 

N.B. If the fowl is not quite fresh, we should use a little vinegar and water 
on the cloth we use for cleaning it, and then take a clean cloth and wipe 
it quite dry. 

12. We take a sharp knife and cut off the claws from 
the legs of the fowl. 

13. We take a basin of boiling water, and hold the end 
of the legs of the fowl in the water for a minute or two. 

14. We then take off the outside skin as far as to the 
first joint. 

15. We take a twist of paper or a taper and light it. 

16. We take the/<w/ up by its legs and hold the lighted 
paper under it to singe off the little hairs. 

17. We then hold the foivl up by its wings and singe 
the other end. 

X.B. We must be careful in singeing not to blacken or mark the fowl in 
any way. 

18. We turn the fowl on its breast, and draw tightly the 
breast skin over the incision on to the back of the neck. 

19. We cross the ends of the wings over the back of the 
neck. 

20. We now turn the fowl on its back with the neck 
towards us. 

21. We take a trussing needle arid thread it with fine twine. 

22. We hold the legs up and press the thighs well into 
the sides of the fowl, forcing the breast up to give the fowl 
a good shape. 

23. We take the threaded trussing needle, and pass it 
through the bottom of one thigh, through the body, and 
out on the other side through the other thigh. 

N.B. If liked, a part of the gizzard and liver (when cleaned, see Note at 
the end of "Trussing a Fowl ior Boiling ") can be put into the wings of 
the fowl. 



150 National Training School for Cookery. 

24. We must now turn the fowl on its breast, and take 
the threaded trussing needle again, and pass it through the 
middle of the pinion or wing, through the little bone called 
the sidesman or stepmother's wing, catching up the skin 
which folds over the incision, and out through the other 
little bone and wing. 

25. \Ve must pull this twine very tightly and tie it as 
firmly as possible at the side of the/^rc-/. 

26. \Yc turn t\\v fowl over on its back, keeping the neck 
still towards us. 

27. We put our finger in the incision (made for drawing 
the_/r :,.'/) and lift up the end of the breast bone. 

28. We take the threaded trussing needle and pass it 
through the skin over the bottom of the breast bone, over 
the end of one leg, back through tin- body close to the 
backbone, and tie it firmly over the other leg at the side. 

N.I'. If there is no gravy rr.i \j f-r ^-rving \\ith the wast find, we should 
prepare it now u-ee Note at the end). 

29. We now put the screen with the jack and dripping- 
pan before the fire. 

30. We must make up the fire in the same manner as 
described in AY<?.v///. . 

N.B. \\'e do not require such a large fire as for roasting meat. 

31. We take the trussed fowl and pa the hook of the 
jack through the back of the fowl, and hang it up on the 
jack. 

N.B. If the fire is very fierce, \ve should take a piece of \vhity brown paper, 
butter it, and tie it over the fowl so as to prevent it from burning. 

32. We put one ounce of butter in the dripping-pan to 

melt. 

33. We use this melted butter to baste the fowl, as the 
fowl is not very fat, there will not be much dripping 
from it. 

34. The fowl will take from Jialf an hour to tJirce-quartcrs 
of an Jionr to roast, according to its size. 

35. We must baste the fowl frequently. 

N.B. While the fowl is roasting, \ve should make the bread sauce (see below). 
N.B. If liked, the roast fowl can be garnished with rolls of bacon (see the 
end of "Veal Cutlets," Entrees, Lesson No. 6). 



Cooking Poultry.- -Trussing Roast Fowl. 151 

36. When the fowl is quite done, we take it off the jack, 
and put it on a hot dish. 

37. We take a knife and cut the twine, and draw it all 
out of the fowl, and take off the paper before serving. 



For making Bread Sauce. 

1. We take a French penny roll, and cut it in half. 

2. We pull out all the inside crumb, and put it on a plate. 

3. We pull this crumb apart into small pieces. 

N.B. If a French roll cannot be procured, bread crumbs can be used instead, 
about i| ounce. 

4. We take a small onion, and peel it with an onion knife. 

5. We take a small stewpan and put in it the peeled onion. 

6. We pour in half a pint of milk. 

7. We now put in the crumb of the roll. 

8. We add. five peppercorns, and salt to taste. 

9. We stand the stewpan aside with the lid on, for a 
quarter of an Jiour, to soak the crumb. 

10. After that time we put the stewpan on the fire, and 
stir the sauce smoothly with a wooden spoon, until it boils. 

11. We now add a tablcspoonful of cream, and stir the 
.sauce until it just boils again. 

12. Before serving the sauce, we must take out the onion t 
and pour the sauce into a sauce tureen. 

N.B. The neck, gizzard, liver, and claws of the fowl, when properly pre- 
pared (see Note at the end of " Trussing a Fowl for Boiling "), can be 
used for soup, or gravy, to be served with the Roast Fowl. For making 
the gravy, we put the giblets into a saucepan with enough water to cover 
them (about \ a pint], we also add half on onion (peeled), 6 peppercorns, 
and salt to taste. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it comes 
to the boil, we move it to the side to simmer while the fowl is roasting. 

For serving, we strain the gravy into a basin and colour it, if necessary, by 
stirring in a quarter of a teaspoonful of " Liebig s Extract," or ten or 
twelve drops of caramel (see Note at the end of "Australian Meat," 
Lesson No. 2, " Brown Puree"), we then pour it in a sauce tureen, or 
round ihefozvL 

Now it is finished. 



152 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. i. 

CLEAR SOUP. 

Average cost for making " Clear Soup" (to be served] with 
Vegetables or Savoury Custard (about 3 pints}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. J. 

2 quarts of stock 2 4 1 

\ lb. of gravy bc'ef o 9 

2 carrots o i 

2 turnips o i 

i \ k-ek o o ] 

i >. abbage lettuce o i 

i tnblfspoonful of young pons I 

Salt ) 



/' 
i lump of sugar ...................... 



''1 





.ttt-r o o] 

O 2j 

Time rfi/uir ' ty before), about one hour and a half. 



No\v we will show you ho\v to make Clear Soup. 

1. \Vc take tico quarts of stoek (sec Lesson on "Stock") ; 
\\-c must be careful to remove from it all fat. 

2. \Ye put the stoek int<^ a stewpan. 

3. \\"e take three quarters of a pound of gravy beef (horn 
the shin of beef), put it on a board, and cut off all the fat 
and skin with a sharp knife. 

4. We chop the beef up very fine. 

N.B. The proportion of beef for clarifying stock is one pound to every 
five pounds of meat with which the stock is made. 

5. We put the chopped gravy beef mto the stewpan. 

6. We take one carrot, one turnip, and one leek, and wash 
them well in cold water. 

7. We take the vegetables out of the water and put 
them on a board. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Clear Soup. 153 

8. We take a sharp knife, and scrape the carrot quite 
clean, and slice it up. 

9. We take the turnip, peel it, and cut it in small 
pieces. 

10. We take the leek and cut off part of the long green 
leaves, and the little straggling roots, and chop up the 
remainder finely. 

11. We put all these vegetables into the stewpan, and 
stir them all 'well with an iron spoon, until they are well 
mixed with the feefand stock. 

12. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the contents 
until it boils. 

13. We now take a large spoon and skim it carefully. 

14. We must stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes. 

15. We take a clean soup cloth and fix it on the soup 
stand. 

16. We take a large basin and place it below the cloth. 

17. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the 
contents carefully into the cloth, and let it all pass into> 
the basin. 

N.B. The chopped gravy beef acts as a filter to the soup. 

18. After the soup has all passed through, we remove the 
basin and put a clean one in 'its place. 

19. We take a soup ladle and pour a little of the soup 
(at a time) over the meat in the cloth, and let it pass 
through very slowly. 

N.B. We must be careful not to disturb the deposit of chopped beef, which 
settles at the bottom of the cloth. 

N.B. If savoury custard should be preferred in the soup instead of shredded 
vegetables, see No. 31. 

20. We take a small carrot, turnip, half a leek, cabbage 
Lettuce, and a tablespoonful of young peas, and wash them in 
cold water. 

21. We put the vegetables on a board, scrape the carrot 
clean, and peel the turnip with a sharp knife, and cut off 
all the outside leaves of the lettuce and the long green 
leaves of the leek. 



154 National Training School for Cookery. 

22. We must shred the carrot, turnip, leek, and cabbage 
lettuce very finely in equal lengths. 

23. We put the shredded carrot, turnip, and leek into a 
small saucepan of cold water with half a saltspoonful of salt. 

24. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it just come 
to the boil. 

N.B. This is to blanch the vegetables. 

25. We take the saucepan off the fire and strain the 
water from the vegetables. 

26. We take a stewpan, and put in the blanched vege- 
tables and cabbage lettuce and peas ; we add a lump of sugar 
and half a pint of the clear soup. 

27. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil fast, and 
reduce the soup to a glaze over the vegetables. 

28. We take the basin of strained soup and pour the 
soup on the vegetables in the stewp.m, and let it just boil. 

29. We then remove the stewpan to the side of the fire, 
and let it boil gently fur half an hour. 

30. Km- serving \\ e p<>ur the soup into a hot soup tureen. 

For Savoury Custard. 

31. We take the yolks of tico eggs and the white of one, 
and put them in a small basin. 

32. We add one gill of the clear soup, and a quarter of a 
saltspoonful of salt. 

33. We whisk up the eggs and the stock well together. 

34. We take a small gallipot and butter it inside. 

35. We pour the mixture into the gallipot. 

36. We take a piece of whity-brown paper and butter it. 

37. We put this buttered paper over the top of the 
gallipot and tie it on with a piece of string. 

38. We take a saucepan of hot water and put it on the 
fire. 

39. When the water is quite boiling, we stand the little 
gallipot in it. 

N.B. The water must not quite reach the paper with which the gallipot is 
covered. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Clear Soup. 155 

40. We draw this saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
let it simmer for a quarter of an Jiour. 

N.B. It must not boil or the custard will be spoiled. 

41. We take the gallipot out of the saucepan, take off 
the buttered paper, and turn the custard out on to a plate 
to cool. 

42. We cut the custard into small pieces the shape of 
diamonds. 

43. Just before serving, we pour the soup into the hot 
tureen, and add the savoury custard to the soup. 

Now it is finished. 



156 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 2. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

Average cost of " Tapioca Cream " (about I pint). 

INGREDIENTS 

s. d. 

i pint of white stock o 7-] 

1 oz. of tapioca o i 

Yolks of 2 eggs o 2 

2 tablespoonsfiil of cream or good milk . . | r> " 
Pepper and >alt ) 

i '! 

Time required for making (the stock th-nild be made the day before], about a quarter 

of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Tapioca Cream. 

1. We take one pint of ^hitc stock (sec " Lesson on 
Stock,") and pour it in a stewpan. 

2. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 

3. We take one ounce of prepared crushed tapioca. 

4. When the iMte stock boils, we stir in gradually the 
tapioca. 

5. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let 
it all simmer until the tapioca is quite clear. 

6. Now we must prepare the liaison. 

7. We put the yolks of tico eggs in a basin, and add to 
them /:<:'<? tablcspoonsfnl of cream or good milk. 

8. We just stir it with a wooden spoon, and then pour 
the mixture through a strainer into another basin. 

9. We now take the stewpan with the loJdte stock, off 
the fire, and stand it on a piece of paper or wooden trivet 
on the table. 

10. When the stacfy. \*>. cooled a little we add by degrees 
tiao or three tablcspoonsfnl of it to the liaison, stirring well 
all the time. 

N.R. We must be careful that the eggs do not curdle. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Tapioca Cream. 157 

11. We now add this mixture to the remainder of the 
stock in the stewpan and stir well. 

12. We add pepper and salt to the soup according to 
taste. 

13. We place the stewpan of soup on the fire to warm 
before serving. 

N.B. It must not boil. For serving we pour it into a hot soup tureen. 

Now it is finished. 



158 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS 
LESSON No. 3. 

BONNE FEMME SOUP. 

Average cost of "Bonne Fcinmc Soup" (one pint and a half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. J. 

2 lettuces .............................. o 2 

2 leaves of sorrel ........................ o i 

4 sprigs of tarragon ...................... o i 

4 sprigs of chervil ........................ o i 

i a cucumber ............................ o 2 

I oz. of butter .......................... o o j 

It .................................. ) , 

i saltspoonful of sugar 



i=V pint of white st->ck .................... o 

The yolks of 3 eggs ...................... o 3 

i gill of cream or milk .................... o 6 

The crust of a French roll ................ o i 

* 4* 
Time required, about half an hour. (T ' ' : ' be made the day before. ) 



Now \vc will show you how to make Bonne Fcuiuic Soup. 

1. We take tico lettuces, t:co /cares of sorrel, four sprigs of 
tarragon, four sprigs of c/icrril, and wash them well in cold 
water. 

2. We take these vegetables and herbs out of the water, 
put them upon a board, and shred them finely. 

3. \Ye take a cucumber and cut it in half. 

4. We peel half the cucumber, and cut it up in thin 
slices, and then shred it with a sharp knife. 

5. We put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put 
it on the fire to melt. 

6. We place all the shredded vegetables and herbs in the 
stewpan to sweat for jive minutes. 

7. We sprinkle over them half a saltspoonful of salt, and 
a saltspoonful of castor sugar. 

8. We must watch it occasionally, as the vegetables must 
not burn or in any way discolour. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Bonne Femme Soiip. 159 

9. We take a pint and a half of wl tit e stock (see " Lesson 
on Stock ") and put it in another saucepan. 

10. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

11. We must now make a " liaison'.' 

12. We take \\\z yolks of three eggs, put them in a basin, 
and beat them well. 

13. We stir in one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream or 
milk. 

14. When the stock is quite boiling, we pour it into the 
stewpan with the vegetables, and let all boil gently for ten 
minutes until the vegetables are quite tender. 

15. After that time we take the stewpan off the fire, and 
stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 

16. We take a French roll and cut off all the crust. 

17. We put the crust on a tin, and put it in the oven to 
dry for a minute or two. 

18. When the stock has cooled a little, we stir in the 
liaison, straining it through a hair-sieve into the stewpan. 

19. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire to keep 
warm until required for use. 

N.B. We must not let it boil as, now the ''liaison" is added, it would 
curdle. 

SO. We take the tin out of the oven and turn the dried 
crust on to a board. 

21. We cut this crust up into small pieces, and in any 
fancy shape, according to taste. 

22. We place these pieces of crust in a hot soup tureen 
and pour the soup over them. 

Now it is finished. 



160 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 4. 

PUREE OF POTATOES. 

Average cost for making a "Puree of Potatoes" (about 

I pint and a half.) 

INGREDIENTS. 

jr. d. 

i lh. of potatoes o i 

1 small onion o o 

2 leaves of celery o i 

i oz. of butter o i \ 

\ ! pint of white stock o xoi 

s.iit \ 6 " 

i pill of cream J 

Fried bread .... 02 



i 10} 

Time required (the stock should /< ;.'</< the d,iy before], about three-quarters of an 

lunir. 



Now we will sliow you how to make a Puree of Potatoes. 

1. We take one pound of potatoes, put them in a basin of 
cold water and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 

2. \Ye take a sharp knife and peel the potatoes, and cut 
them in thin slices. 

3. We take a small onion, wash it well in cold water, and 
peel it. 

4. \Ve take two leaves of celery and wash them. 

5. \Ye take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter. 

6. We now add the sliced potatoes, the onion, and the 
celery. 

7. We put the stewpan on the fire and let the vegetables 
sweat forjfc't- minutes ; we must take care that they do not 
discolour. 

8. \Ve pour into the stewpan one pint of white stock and 
stir frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent it from 
burning. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Purde of Potatoes. 1 6 1 

9. We let it boil gently till the vegetables are quite 
cooked. 

10. We put half a pint of white stock into a stewpan and 
put it on the fire to heat. 

11. We now place a tammy-sieve over a basin and pass 
the contents of the stewpan through the sieve with a wooden 
spoon, adding by degrees the half pint of hot white stock, 
\vhich will enable it to pass through more easily. 

12. We take the stewpan and wash it out. 

13. We pour the Puree back into the stewpan. 

14. We add salt according to taste, and one gill (quarter 
of a pint) of cream and stir smoothly with a wooden spoon 
until it boils. 

15. For serving we pour it into a hot soup tureen. 

N.B. Fried bread cut in the shape of dice should be served with the purde 
(see " Vegetables," Lesson No. 8, from Note 13 to 17). 

Now it is finished. 



1 62 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 5. 

SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Average cost of " Spring Vegetable Sonp " (two quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 Ibs. of the shin of beef i o 

2 Ibs. of the knuckle of veal i o 

Salt ; 1 o i 

2 young carrots ) 

i young turnip o o\ 

i leek o ov 

\ uf a ln-ad of celery o i 

i cauliflower o 4 

'! "f P'-.i- ). _ 

] of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda . . ) 



2 TO 



. 'i r 'X< about Jii'C fours. 



Now we will show you how to make tico quarts of Spring 
Vegetable Soup. 

1. \Vc take two pounds of shin of beef , and two pounds of 
knuckle of 1'cal, and put them on a board. 

2. \Ye must cut off all the meat from the bone with a 
sharp knife. 

3. \Ye cut off all the fat from the meat (the fat we put 
aside for other purposes i. 

4. "\Ye take a chopper and break the bones in halves. 

5. We take out all the marrow inside the bones, and put 
it aside for other uses. 

N.B. If the fat and marro\v were to go into the soup they would make it 
greasy. 

6. \Ye take a stockpot or a large stewpan, and put the 
meat and bones into it. 

7. We pour m five pints of cold water. 

8. We put in a teaspoonful of salt. This will assist the 
scum to rise. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Spring Vegetable Soup. 163 

9. We put the stockpot on the fire, with the lid on, and 
let it come to the boil quickly. 

10. We take a spoon and remove all the scum as it 
rises. 

11. We now draw the stockpot rather to the side of the 
fire and let it simmer gently for five hours. 

12. We take two young carrots, scrape them clean with a 
knife, and cut them in slices. 

13. We take one young turnip, peel it, and cut it in slices. 

14. We take half a head of celery and one leek, wash them 
well in cold water, and cut them in squares with a knife. 

15. We take one cauliflower, wash it in cold water, and 
put it in a basin of cold water, with a dessertspoonful of 
salt, for two or three minutes. 

16. We then take the cauliflower out of the water, and 
squeeze it dry in a cloth. 

17. We take a knife and cut off all the green leaves and 
the stalk from the cauliflower, and pull the flower into 
sprigs. 

18. We must watch and skim the soup occasionally, and 
we should add a little cold water to make the scum rise. 

19. One hour before serving the soup we should add the 
vegetables. 

20. We must first put in the sliced carrots, and the cut 
up celery and leek. (These vegetables take the longest to 
boil.) 

21. In half an hour we should add the sliced turnips, and 
fifteen minutes after that the cut up flower of the cauli- 

Jlower. 

22. We take a saucepan full of hot water, and put it on 
the fire to boil. 

23. When the water is quite boiling, we put in one gill of 
shelled peas, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a salt- 
spoonful of carbonate of soda, and let it boil from fifteen 
to twenty minutes, according to the age of the peas. 

N.B. The cover should be off the saucepan 



L 2 



164 National Training School for Cookery. 

24. After that time we should feel the peas, and if they 
are quite soft we take them out of the saucepan and drain 
them in a cullender. 

25. For serving, we put the boiled peas into a hot soup 
tureen, and ladle the soup and the other vegetables from the 
stockpot out into the tureen. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Giblet Soup. 165 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 6. 

GIBLET SOUP. 

Average cost of " Giblet Soup " (about three pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 sets of giblets 2 o 

5 of a head of celery o i 

i carrot o o 

1 turnip o o 

2 small onions o Oj 

2 cloves \ 

1 blade of mace r 

A bouquet garnie of parsley, thyme, lemon- i 

thyme, basil, marjoram and bay leaf . . ) 

2 quarts of second white stock I z\ 

i j oz. of clarified butter o if 

i oz. of flour o o^ 

| a pint of Madeira i 8 

30 drops of lemon juice o i 

A few grains of Cayenne pepper ) , 

Salt / 

5 5 

(Stock made the day before}. Time required, about three hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make Giblet Soup. 

1. We take two sets of goose or four of ducks giblets, scald 
and skin the claws, ends of legs, &c., and wash them clean 
in cold water (see Note for " Cleaning Giblets " at the end 
of " Trussing a Fowl for Boiling "). 

2. We should put them into boiling water to blanch 
them, for five minutes. 

3. We then lay them in a basin of cold water, and wash 
and scrape them clean. 

4. We take them out of the water and drain them. 

5. We take a knife and cut the giblets in pieces to about 
one and a half inch in length. 

6. We put the pieces of gib let into a stewpan. 

7. We take a quarter of a head of celery and wash it well 
in cold water. 



1 66 . National Training School for Cookery. 

8. We take one carrot, wash it in cold water, and scrape 
it clean with a knife. 

9. We take one turnip and two small onions, wash them 
in cold water and peel them. 

10. We add these vegetables to the giblets in the stewpan. 

11. We also put in two clorcs, one blade of mace, and a 
bouquet garni, consisting of parsley, one sprig of thyme, 
lemon-thyme, basil, marjoram, and one bay -leaf, all tied 
tightly together. 

12. We pour in two quarts of second white stock. 

13. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil gently 
for two hours ; we must skim it occasionally. 

14. After that time, we take out the best pieces of the 
giblets, and trim them neatly. 

15. We put these pieces aside until required for use. 

16. We leave the stewpan on the fire to boil for half an 

hour. 

17. We put an ounce and a half of clarified butter, and 
one ounce of flour into a stewpan. 

18. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let \\\z flour and 
butter fry for a few minutes, stirring it well with a wooden 
spoon. 

19. We now add the stock and stir it well until it boils. 

20. We must now remove the stewpan to the side of the 
fire, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes (the cover of 
the saucepan should be only half on). 

21. After that time, we take a spoon and carefully skim 
off all the butter that will have risen to the top of the soup. 

22. We now strain the soup into a basin, add to it half 
a pint of Madeira, thirty drops of lemon juice, a few grains 
(just enough to cover thinly a threepenny piece) of Cayenne 

pepper, and salt according to taste. 

23. For serving, we pour the soup into a hot soup tureen, 
and add to it the pieces of giblet that were put aside. 

N.B. If the wine is disliked, it may be omitted. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Mock Turtle Soup. 167 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 7. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Average cost of " Mock Turtle Soup " (about two quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 a calf's head 5 o 

3 oz. of butter ( 

2 a tablespoonful of salt J **" 

5 Ib. of lean ham o 4 

i shalot | 

i clove of garlic J 

6 mushrooms o 

i carrot N \ 

J head of celery 

i leek 

i onion 

% a turnip 

Bouquet garni (/. e. sprig of thyme, mar- 
joram, parsley, and a bay leaf) 

i blade of mace 

6 cloves 

3 oz. of flour 

2 wine glasses of sherry '. o 8 

The juice of \ a lemon o i 

i dozen forcemeat balls (see "Entrees," 

Lesson No. 8) o 45 



i 




7 Si 



Time required, about six hours. 



N.B. If the soup is required to be made in one day, the stock should be 
made early in the morning, so as to give time for it to get cold to have 
the fat removed. 



Now we will show you how to make Mock Turtle Soup. 

1. We take half a calf's head, and wash it well in water, 
to remove all blood and impurities. 

2. We cut all the flesh from the bones, and tie the flesh 
up in a very clean cloth or napkin. 

3. We put it in a large stewpan with the bones and four 
.quarts of cold water, and half a tablespoonful of salt. 

4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it come to 
the boil. 



1 68 National Training School for Cookery. 

5. As soon as it boils, we should skim it carefully with 
a spoon, and move the stewpan to the side of the fire to 
stew gently for tliree hours. 

X.B. \Ve should watch it and skim it occasionally. 

6. After that time we take out the calf's head, and pour 
the stock through a strainer into a basin. 

7. We stand the basin of stock aside to get cold, when 
we should carefully remove every particle of fat from the 
top of the stock. 

8. We must now make some forcemeat (see " Beef 
Olives," Entrees, Lesson No. 8, from Note 4 to Note I2) v 
and make it up into little balls, about one dor-en. 

9. We take six mushrooms (cut oft" the end of the stalks), 
one onion, and half a turnip, wash them, peel them, and cut 
them up in slices. 

10. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut 
it in slices. 

11.. We take half a head of celery, and one leek, wash 
them, cut oft" the long green leaves (to be thrown away), 
and cut them in slice 

12. We put a quarter of a pound of lean ham on a board,, 
and cut it up in small piece>. 

13. We put one ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it 
on the fire to melt. 

14. We add the ham and all the sliced vegetables to the 
butter in the stewpan. 

15. We also add one sJialot (peeled), one clove of garlic,, 
one blade of mace, six cloves, and a bouquet garni (consisting 
of a sprig of thyme, marjoram, parsley, and a bay leaf, tied 
tightly together). 

16. We let all these vegetables and herbs, &c., fry in the 
butter for ten minutes. \Ve must stir them occasionally. 

17. After that time we add three ounces of flour, and stir 
well. 

18. We now add the stock and stir it until it boils, then 
move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer 
for about ten minutes. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Mock Tiirtle Soup. 169 

19. We must then take a spoon and remove every 
particle of scum. 

20. We now strain the soup into another stewpan. 

21. We take the calf's head out of the cloth, and cut it 
up in small and neat pieces. 

22. We add the pieces of calf's head to the soup, also 
two iviue glasses of sherry, the dozen forcemeat balls, and 
squeeze in through a strainer ihe juice of half a lemon. 

23. We let the soup just come to the boil, and then pour 
it in a hot soup tureen for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



170 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 8. 

POT-AU-FEU OR SOUP. 

And use of Meat from which the Soup has been made. 

Average cost of " Pot-an-fcn" consisting of about fii'c 
quarts of soup, and a disJi of meat icit/i vegetables* 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

4 Ibs. of beef, or 4 Ibs. of the meat oft" the ox 

cheek 2 o 

Sago or tapioca for soup o o 

. salt, 2 turnips o i 

2 earrots o i 

2 leeks o i 

i ] i.irsnip o i 

1 small head of celery o 2 

2 or 3 sprigs of jursley o ol 

i cal >t iage o i 

j bay-leaf, thyme and marjoram, and i onion, 
stuck with 3 cl' >\i-s o i 

- 9 
Tn . n ./, a belt t four hour;. 



Now we will show you how to make Pot-au-feu. 

1. We put six quarts of icatcr in a large pot. 

2. We take four pounds of the sticking piece of beef, or 
four pounds of the meat off the ox cJieek, without any bone, 

tie it up firmly into a shape with a piece of string, and put 
it into the pot. 

3. We put the pot on the fire to boil. 

4. When the water is quite boiling we put in half an 
ounce of salt, and then move the pot to the side of the fire 
to simmer. 

5. We take two carrots, two leeks, ti^'o turnips, one parsnip, 
one small head of celery, and wash them well in cold water. 

6. We scrape the carrots and the parsnip, and cut them 
in quarters with a knife. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Pot-au-Feu or Soup. 171 

7. We take the leeks and cut off the long green leaves, as 
only the white part is required. 

8. We take the Jiead of celery and cut off the green tops 
of the leaves. 

9. We tie the leeks t the celery, and the parsnip and carrot 
together with a piece of string. 

10. We take a cabbage, cut it in two, and wash it 
thoroughly in cold water, and tie it firmly together with 
string. 

11. We should skim the Pot-au-feu occasionally with a 
spoon. 

12. When the Pot-au-feu has boiled very gently for one 
hour, we add to it all the vegetables, except the cabbage. 

13. We take one bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, a sprig of 
tJiyme, a sprig of marjoram, and tie them together with a 
piece of string. 

14. We put these herbs into the pot. 

15. We take one onion, peel it, and stick three cloves in it. 

16. We put the onion into the pot. 

17. When the vegetables have been two Jiours in the pot 
we put in the cabbage. 

18. When the contents of the pot has simmered gently 
for four Jiours, we take out the meat and put it on a hot dish. 

19. We garnish the meat with the carrots, turnips, and 
parsnips, and pour over it about half a pint of the liquor for 
gravy. 

20. We take out the cabbage and serve it in a hot vege- 
table dish. 

21. We strain the liquor through a cullender or cloth into 
a basin, and put it by to cool. 

22. We do not remove the fat until the liquor is required 
for use ; it keeps the air from it. 

To make a soup of the liquor. 

23. We put tiuo quarts of the liquor in a saucepan, and 
put it on the fire to boil. 



172 National Training School for Cookery. 

24. We take tivo ounces of crushed tapioca or small sago, 
and when the liquor boils we sprinkle in the tapioca or sago, 
and let it boil for fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally. 

25. We then pour it into a soup-tureen, and it is ready 
for use. 

N.B. If liked, Beef u-la-mode, or rissoles (see "Cooked Meat," Lesson 
No. 6), can be made with the meat from \\\e pot-au-ftit. 

For " Beef a-la-mode" 

1. We put two ounces of dripping into a saucepan and 
put it on the fire to melt. 

2. We then stir in one tablcspoonful of flour. 

3. We take one pound and a half of the meat and cut it 
in neat pieces. 

4. We put these pieces of meat into the saucepan. 

5. When it comes to the boil we turn over the slices of 
meat and pour in Jialf a pint of cold water. 

6. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean and cut it 
in slices. 

7. We put the 'carrot into the saucepan ; we also add a 
bunch of herbs, namely, a sprig of marjoram and thyme, and 
a bay-leaf, tied tightly together. 

8. We let it just come to the boil and then move the 
saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for 
tJirec hours. 

9. We should watch it and stir it occasionally. 

10. For serving, we turn the meat on to a hot dish, and 
place the carrot on the top of the meat. 

Now it is finished. 



Making Soup. Dr. Kitcheners Broth. 173 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 9. 

DR. KITCHENER'S BROTH. 

Average cost of " Dr. Kitchener s Broth ): (about 5 quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4 oz. of Scotch barley i 

4 oz. of sliced onions i 

2 oz. of dripping i 

3 oz. of bacon ii 

4 oz. of oatmeal ) 

Pepper and salt j 

5 quarts of liquor 



Time required, about two liours. 

Now we will show you how to make Dr. Kitcheners 
Broth. 

1. We take four ounces of Scotch barley, wash it well, and 
let it soak in a basin of cold water for two hours. 

2. We put five quarts of liquor into a saucepan, and put 
it on the fire to boil. 

3. We take two or three onions, peel them, and cut them 
in slices. (There should be about four ounces?) 

4. We drain off the barley and put it and the onions into 
the liquor, and let it boil gently for one hour. 

5. We put three ounces of bacon into another saucepan 
with two ounces of clarified dripping. 

6. We put the saucepan on the fire to fry the bacon brown. 

7. We then add by degrees four ounces of oatmeal, 
stirring it well until it is a paste. 

8. We now stir in by degrees the broth, and season it 
with pepper and salt according to taste. 

9. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let 
it simmer gently for at least half an hour. 

10. For serving we pour the broth into a hot soup tureen 
or basin. 

Now it is finished. 



174 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 10. 

CROWDIE. 

Average cost of " Crowdic" or "Scotch Broth" made with 

liquor from boiled meat. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 gallons of liquor from meat 

\ pint of oatmeal o\ 

2 onions i 

Salt and pepper o.j- 



ri 

1 



Time ;v///v7, half 'an hour. 

Now we will show you how to make Croi^die, or Scotch 
Broth. 

1. We take tico gallons of any meat liquor, either salt or 
fresh, remove all the/*?/ from it, and put it into a saucepan. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

3. We take half a pint of oatmeal, put it in a basin, and 
mix it into a smooth paste, with about a gill (a quarter of 
a pint) of the liquor. 

N. \\.--Halfa pint of oatmeal is sufficient to thicken hw gallons of liquor. 

4. We take tico onions, peel them, put them on a board, 
and chop them up as finely as possible. 

5. We stir the chopped onions into the paste, and add salt 

and pepper to taste. 

X.B. If salt liquor is used, salt should not be added. 

6. When the liquor in the saucepan is quite boiling 1 , we 
stir in \\\z paste smoothly. 

7. We let it boil for twenty minutes; we should stir it 
occasionally ; it must not get lumpy. 

8. For serving, we pour it into a soup tureen or basin. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soiip. Milk Soup. 175 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. u. 

MILK SOUP. 

Average cost of "Milk Soup" (about two quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d ', 

4 potatoes 2 

2 leeks or onions i 

2 oz. butter 2 

i oz. salt j. , 

Pepper J 

i pint of milk 2 

3 tablespoonsful of tapioca i \ 



required, about huo hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make Milk Soup. 

1. We put tivo quarts of water into a large saucepan, and 
put it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take four large potatoes, wash and scrub them 
clean in cold water, peel them, and cut them in quarters. 

3. We take two leeks, cut off the green tops of the leaves, 
wash them well in cold water, and cut them up. 

N.B. Onions can be used instead of leeks, only they would give a stronger 
flavour. 

4. When the water is quite boiling we put in ti\z potatoes 
and leeks. 

5. We put in two ounces of butter, a quarter of an ounce- 
of salt, and pepper to taste. 

6. We let it boil till done to a mash. 

7. We then strain off the soup through the cullender. 

8. We rub the vegetables through the cullender with a 
wooden spoon. 

9. We return \hz pulp and the soup to the saucepan, add 
one pint of milk to it, and put it on the fire to boil. 



1 76 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. When it boils we sprinkle in by degrees tJirec table- 
spoonsful of crushed tapioca, stirring it well the whole time. 

11. We let it boil gently fifteen minutes. 

12. For serving, we pour the soup in a hot tureen. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Cabbage Soup. 177 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 12. 

CABBAGE SOUP. 

Average cost of making " Cabbage Soup " (about one quart 

and a half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1 cabbage 2 

2 oz. butter -z\ 

f of a pint of milk 2 

Pepper and salt } L 

A slice of bread . | 



Time required, about one hour and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make Cabbage Soup. 

1. We put three pints of water into a saucepan, and put 
it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take a good sized cabbage, wash it well in cold 
water, and trim off the outside dead leaves. 

3. We cut the cabbage up, as we cut a lettuce up for a 
salad, but not into small pieces. 

4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we 
put in the cabbage. 

5. We also add tivo ounces of butter, and pepper and salt 
for seasoning, and let it boil for one hour. 

6. After that time we pour in three quarters of a pint of 
milk, and let it boil up. 

7. We take a slice of bread, stick it on a toasting fork, 
and toast it slightly on both sides in front of the fire. 

8. We cut the toasted bread up in pieces, the size of dice, 
and put them into a hot soup tureen or basin. 

9. We pour the cabbage soup on to the bread in the soup 
tureen, and it is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 

M 



178 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 13. 

PEA SOUP. 

Average cost of "Pea Soup" (about 2 quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1 quart of split peas 5 

2 onions i 

i turnip oV 

i carrot oV 

i head of celery 2 

Teaspoonful of salt ) i 

\ a teaspoonful of pepper I 

Cooked or uncookr.l IH. ... 2 



Time ) , . ./".'; .' '.< /,.-/;. ikcJ ,;// /;. .' /;<<< hstirs iintf i/ h<ilf. 



Now \vc will show you how to make Pea Soup. 

1. \Vc put a quart of split peas into a basin with cold 
water to cover them, and let them souk for ticcli'C hours. 

N.P.. This should be done over night. 

2. We put /:.(' quarts of cold water and the J///V /#w 
into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 

N.B. If there is any liquor from lx)iled meat it would of course be better 
than water for the soup. 

3. We take livo onions and one turnip, wash them in 
cold water, peel them, and cut them in halves. 

4. We take one carrot, wash it, and scrape it clean with 
a knife. 

5. We take one Jicad of celery, cut off the ends of the 
root, and wash it well in cold water. 

6. When the water in the saucepan is boiling we put in 
all the vegetables. 

7. We add twopennyworth of cooked or uncooked bones, 
and season it with one teaspoonful of salt and Jialf a tea- 
spoonful of ground pepper. 

N.B. If some liquor (in which meat or pork has been boiled) is used the 
addition of bones will not then be necessarv. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Pea Soup. 179 

8. We let it all boil slowly for tivo hours, and we must 
watch it and skim it occasionally. 

9. After that time we take the bones out of the saucepan. 

10. We place a cullender or wire sieve over a basin. 

11. We pour the contents of the saucepan into the 
cullender, and rub them through into the basin with a 
wooden spoon. 

12. The pea soup is then ready for serving. 

13. Powdered (dried] mint, and toasted bread, cut to the 
shape of dice, should be handed with the soup, either put 
in, or served separately on plates. 

Now it is finished. 



M 2 



i So National Training School far Cookery. 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 14. 

GERMAN PEA SOUP. 

Average cost of " German Pea Soup " (about three pints) 

made without Meat. 

INGREDIENTS. 

\ of a stick of German pea soup sausage (to be 

bought at 8<1. the stick) zd. 

3 pints of water 

T. Barter vf an hour. 



Now we will .show you how t<> make Pea Soup from the 
German pea soup sausa^ 

1. We put three pints of warm water into a saucepan, 
and put it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take a quarter of a stick of German pea soup 
sausage, and scrape it into a basin. 

3. \Ve add to it a very little warm water, let it soak, and 
then mix it int<> a smooth paste. 

N.B. We in-. careful that there are no lumps in the/<7.7<-. 

4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
should stir \\\^ paste in smoothly. 

5. It is now ready for use and should be poured into a 
hot soup tureen. 

N.R. If the soup is preferred thinner, more water might be added. 

N.R. A dessert-spoonful of chopped mint might be added to the soup, if the 
flavour is liked. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Macaroni Soup. 181 

SOUPS. 

LESSON No. 15. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

I 

Average cost of "Macaroni Soup" made from Bones 

(about 3 pints). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d, 

Bones (if bought) 2 

i tablespoonful of salt and peppercorns . . . . \ ! 

1 good-sized turnip and 4 leeks j 

2 carrots i 

4 onions, 2 cloves, and a blade of mace 2 

A bunch of herbs, i.e. marjoram, thyme, lemon ) L 

thyme, and parsley J 

\ Ib. of macaroni i \ 



Time required, about two and a half hours. 



Now we will show you how to make Soup from Bones. 

1. We take the bones and cut off all the meat that can be 
used. 

N.B. Cooked or uncooked bones can be used. 

2. We break up the bones in pieces and put them into a 
saucepan, with cold water enough to cover them, and one 
quart more. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

4. When it just boils, we put in a tablespoonful of salt, to 
help the scum to rise. 

5. We take one good-sized turnip, peel it, and cut it in 
quarters. 

N.B. When turnips are used only for flavouring, they can be peeled thinner 
than if for eating. 

6. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them, and cut 
them in quarters ; we takejfow leeks t wash them, and shred 
them up finely. 

N.B. As these vegetables are prepared, they should be thrown into cold 
water to keep them fresh. 



182 National Training School for Cookery. 

7. We take four onions, peel them, and stick two cloves 
into the onions. 

N.B. The outer skins of the onions can be put into a saucepan by the side 
of the fire to brown ; when browned, they are useful for colouring gravies 
and soups. 

8. We should skim the soup well and then put in the 
vegetables ; we also add a blade of mace and a teaspoonful 
of peppercorns. 

9. We must move the saucepan to the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently for two hours and a Jialf. 

10. We should raise the lid slightly to let out the steam, 

N.B. The soup can be thickened with macaroni, vermicelli, barley or rice. 

11. If the soup is thickened with macaroni^ we take a 
quarter of a pound of macaroni and wash it well in two or 
three waters. 

12. We put the macaroni into a saucepan with plenty of 
cold water, and sprinkle a little salt over it. 

13. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil until 
the macaroni is quite tender ; it will take about Jialf an 
hour. 

14. We should feel the macaroni with our fingers to sec 
that it is quite soft and tender. 

15. When it is sufficiently boiled, we strain the water off 
and pour some cold water on it, and wash the macaroni 



agan. 



16. We put the macaroni on a board, and cut it into 
small pieces about a quarter of an inch in length, it is then 
ready to be put into the soup. 

N.B. If barley is used instead of macaroni, it will take a much longer time 
to boil, but if vermicelli is used, it takes a very short time to boil. 

17. When the soup is ready for use, we should put the 
macaroni into a soup tureen and strain the hot soup over it. 

N.B. It is better to boil macaroni separately as the first water is not clean. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soztp. Stock. 183 



STOCK. 

Average cost of brown or ivhite " Stock "for soup (about two 

quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. d. 
4 Ibs. of shin of beef, or 2 Ibs. of knuckle ) 

of veal and 2 Ibs of beef j 

4 young carrots or 2 old ones o 2 

i turnip o o^ 

i onion o o 

i leek o o 

Half a head of celerv I 

Salt. I 



Time required, about Jive hours. 



Now we will show you how to make Stock for soup. It 
should be made the day before it is required for use. 

1. We take four pounds of shin of beef and put it on a 
board. 

2. We must cut off all the meat from the bone with a 
sharp knife. 

3. We cut off all the fat from the meat. (Thejfc/we put 
aside for other purposes.) 

4. We take a chopper and break the bone in half. 

5. We take out all the marrow inside the bone, and put 
it aside for other uses. 

N.B. If the fat and marrow were to go into the stock it would make it 
greasy. 

6. We take a stockpot or a large stewpan, and put the 
meat and bone into it. 

7. We pour m five pints of cold water. 

N.B. One pint of water is allowed for each pound of meat and one pint over. 

8. We put in half a teaspoonfnl of salt. This will assist 
the scum to rise. 

9. We put the stockpot on the fire with the lid on, and 
let it come to the boil quickly. 



184 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We take four young carrots, scrape them clean with 
a knife, and cut them in pieces. 

11. We take one turnip and one onion, peel them and cut 
them in quarters. 

12. We take a leek and half a head of celery and wash 
them well in cold water. 

13. We take a spoon and remove the scum from the 
stock as it rises. 

14. Now we put in all the vegetables^ and let it simmer 
gently for five Jiours. 

15. We must watch and skim it occasionally, and we 
should add a little cold icater to make the scum rise. 

16. We take a clean cloth and put it over a good-sized 
basin. 

17. We put a hair-sieve on the top of the cloth over the 
basin. 



18. When the stock has been simmering forfa'c Jiours we 
take the stockpot off the fire. 

19. We pour the contents into the sieve, which contains 
the meat, bone, and vegetables ; and the cloth very effectually 
strains the stock. 

N. B.- The meat and bone can be used again for second stock, with the 
addition of fresh vegetables ami water. 

20. We take the basin (into which the stock has been 
strained), and put it in a cool place till the next da}', when 
it will be a stiff jelly. 

21. When this stock jell}' is required for use, we must 
take off the fat from the top with a spoon. 

22. We take a clean cloth and dip it in hot water, and 
wipe over the top of the jelly so as to remove every particle 
of fat. 

23. Now we must take a clean dry cloth and wipe the 
top of the jelly dry. 

N.B. For some soups, vegetable soups, or purees, white stock is required. 
White stock is made in the same way, only with veal instead of beef, 
and it can also be made of veal and beef mixed, or rabbit and beef, but 
veal alone is considered best. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Soup. Vegetable Stock. 185 
VEGETABLE STOCK. 

Average cost of " Vegetable Stock " (about two quarts). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1 cabbage i 

3 large or 6 small onions ijj 

2 carrots i 

1 turnip o| 

2 oz. of butter 2j 

3 cloves 

30 peppercorns 

A bunch of herbs (thyme, marjoram, and a 

bay-leaf) 

Salt 



Time required, about two hours and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make Vegetable Stock. 

1. We take one cabbage, wash it well in cold water, and 
cut it in quarters. 

2. We take two carrots, wash them, scrape them clean, 
and cut them in quarters. 

3. We take one turnip, peel it, and cut it in quarters. 

4. We take three large or six small onions, and wash 
them clean (the skins are to be left on). 

5. We put all these vegetables into a saucepan, with two 
ounces of butter. 

6. W T e also add a bunch of kerbs (namely, a sprig of 
thyme, marjoram, and a bay-leaf) tied tightly together, three 
cloves and thirty peppercorns. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let the 
vegetables and herbs sweat in the butter for ten minutes. 
We must stir them and not let them burn. 

8. We now pour in three quarts of cold water, and add 
salt according to taste. 

9. When the water boils we move the saucepan to the 
side of the fire and let it simmer gently for two hours. We 
must watch it and skim it occasionally. 



1 86 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. After that time we strain the stock into a basin, and 
it is ready for use. It is now reduced to two quarts and 
Jialf a pint. 

N.B. This stock can be used for thick vegetable soups. 



Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Boiled Turbot. T 8 7 

FISH. 

LESSON No. i. 

BOILED TURBOT AND LOBSTER 

SAUCE. 

Tuibot varies in price considerably. 

Average cost of ingredients for "Lobster Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

Lobster 2 o 

2 oz. of butter o 2$- 

i tablespoonful of cream o IT 

\ an oz. of flour o o| 

2 4 

Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to boil Turbot and make 
Lobster Sauce. 

1. We take the titrbot. 

2. We put it in a basin of cold water and wash it well. 

3. We get a fishkettle and fill it with cold water, add to 
it as much salt as will make the water taste salt, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

4. We take the turbot out of the basin. 

5. We put it on the drainer of the fishkettle, and put it 
in the kettle of boiling water, so that it is well covered with 
water. 

6. We let it boil for tiventy minutes or half an Jionr. 

7. W'e must watch it and skim the water if necessary. 

N.B. While the turbot is boiling, we should make the lobster sauce (see 
below). 

8. When the fish is sufficiently boiled, the flesh will 
divide from the bone. 

9. Now we take the drainer carefully out of the fishkettle, 
stand it across the kettle a minute to drain, and slip the fish 
carefully on to a hot dish for serving. 



1 88 National Training School for Cookery. 

For Lobster Sauce. 

1. We take a small lobster it should be a hen lobster if 
possible. 

2. We put the lobster on a board. 

3. We take a chopper and break the shell of the lobster 
by hitting it with the blade of the chopper, not with the 
edge ; 1st because it would cut the lobster in pieces, and 
2nd because it would spoil the edge of the chopper. 

4. We break all the shell off the claws and back with 
our fingers and take out all the flesh. 

5. We cut this flesh up with a sharp knife to the size of 
small dice. 

6. If the lobster is a hen lobster we shall find a bit of coral 
in the neck, and a strip of it down the back. 

7. We take all this coral out of the lobster and wash it 
carefully in cold water in a small basin. 

8. We take the coral out of the basin and put it in a 
mortar with one ounce of butter. 

9. We pound the coral and the butter well with the 
pestle. 

10. We take it out of the mortar, and scrape the mortar 
out quite clean with a palette knife, for none must be lost. 

11. If we have not a palette knife we can manage as well 
with a piece of uncooked potato cut into the shape of a 
knife blade with a thick back, with this we can scrape all 
out of the mortar. 

12. We take a hair sieve and put it over a plate. 

13. We rub the pounded mixture through the sieve with 
the back of a wooden spoon. 

14. We must turn up the sieve when all the mixture has 
passed through, and we shall find some sticking on the 
underneath part. 

15. We scrape all this carefully off with the spoon. 

16. We make it all into a little pat. 

17. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter 
and half an ounce of flour. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Lobster Sauce. 189 

18. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 

19. We add one gill and a half (one gill is quarter of a 
pint) of cold water. 

20. We put the stewpan on the fire. 

21. We stir the mixture smooth with a wooden spoon 
until it boils and thickens. \Ve add a large tablespoonful of 
cream, and stir well till it boils again. 

22. We then take the stewpan off the fire and stand it 
on a piece of paper on the table. 

23. We add to the mixture in the stewpan the pat of 
coral butter by degrees to colour it. 

X.B. If there is no coral, the sauce might be coloured with half a teaspoon- 
ful of essence of anchovy. 

24. We stir it quite smoothly with a wooden spoon, it 
must not be lumpy. 

25. We now add pepper and salt and a few grains of 
cayenne pepper, according to taste. 

. 26. We take the chopped lobster and mix it into the 
sauce, and add a little lemon juice. 

27. We pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve it 
with the turbot. 

Now it is finished. 



190 National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 2. 

FISH PUDDING. 

Average cost of "Fish Pudding and Egg Sancc" 

INGREDIENTS. 



"Haddock." 

S. if. 

Haddock .................... i o 

2 Ibs. of potatoes . . '. ......... o 2 

3 oz. butter .................. o 3 \ 



egg 



o i 



Sauce. 



2 oz. of butter .................. jl 

. of flour .................... o\ 

| gill of cream .................. .} 

2 eggs and salt .................. J 



T\ 



Time rcquifiJ, ,./,'/// <V/L- //tW and a half. 



\<>w \vc will show you how to make a Fisli Pudding of a 
Haddock. 

N. P.. Any <\>/./ boilcdfsk can be used for ti&jishpltdding, instead ot" htidJJik. 

1. We take a fishkettle of warm water, and we put in it 
a little jw//, and put it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take a Jiaddock, and put it into a basin of cold 
water and wash it well. 

3. We take the Jiaddock out of the basin and put it into 
the fishkettle of boiling water, laying it carefully on the 
drainer so that it is well covered with water. 

4. We let it simmer im fifteen minutes. 

5. We take six potatoes, put them into a basin of cold 
water, and scrub them well with a scrubbing-brush. 

N.H. Any c<>ld potatoes can of course be used instead of boiling fresh ones. 

6. We take the potatoes out of the basin, and dry them 
with a cloth. 

7. We take a sharp knife and peel the potatoes. 

8. We take a saucepan of cold water, and \?cy \\\z potatoes 
in it. 

9. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. It must not 
boil less than twenty minutes, or more than three-quarters 

an hour, according to the size of t\\Q potatoes. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Fish Pudding. 191 

10. When we think the potatoes are sufficiently done, we 
take a steel fork and try the potatoes, to see if they are 
tender all through. 

11. When they are quite boiled, we drain off all the water 
from the saucepan, and sprinkle the potatoes with a little 
salt. 

12. We put on the lid of the saucepan, and stand it 
by the side of the fire to steam the potatoes until they have 
become quite mealy and dry. 

13. We should shake the saucepan every now and then, 
to prevent \.\YQ potatoes from sticking to the bottom. 

14. When the haddock is sufficiently boiled, we take it 
carefully out of the fishkettle. 

15. We take a sharp knife, and cut off the head and tail 
of ihefa/t. 

16. We skin ihefa/i from the head to the tail. 

17. We cut up ihejls/i and take out all the bones. 

18. W r e cut \\\<t fisJi up into small pieces the size of dice, 
and put them in a large basin. 

19. When the potatoes are steamed, we take them out of 
the saucepan with a spoon. 

20. We have a wire sieve ready standing over a large 
plate. 

21. We rub \.\\Q potatoes quickly through the sieve with a 
wooden spoon, 

N.B. The potatoes when sifted should be of the same weight as ihejis/i. 

22. We add the sifted potatoes to the haddock, and mix 
them well together with a wooden spoon. 

23. We add salt &&& pepper, and a few grains of Cayenne 
pepper to taste. 

24. We put in two ounces of butter. 

25. We take one egg, and beat.it slightly in a basin. 

26. W T e pour the egg into the above mixture, and mix 
all together to a thick paste. 

27. We take a large-sized flat tin, and butter it well with 
our fingers. 



1 92 National Training School for Cookery. 

28. We put the mixture on to this tin, and shape it as 
well as we can like a haddock. 

N.B. If preferred, the mixture can be formed into cutlets, or croquette 
shapes, or as fish cakes, and egged and bread crumbed and fried in 
dripping, as for lobster cutlets (see "Fish," Lesson No. 7, Note 34 to 
Note 40). 

29. We put some little bits of butter all about on the 
shape. 

30. We put the tin into a quick oven for a quarter of an 
Jiour. It should become a pale-brown colour. 



Now we will make the Sauce. 

1. We take a stewpan, and put in it tico ounces of butter 
and one ounce and a half of flour. 

2. We mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 

3. We add half a teaspoonful of salt. 

4. We pour in half a pint of cold water. 

5. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir all smooth 
with a wooden spoon until it boils. 

6. We now add tico tablespoonsfiil of cream, and let it 
boil, stirring all the time. 

7. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire. The 
mixture must not boil a^ain, but only keep warm. 

8. We take a saucepan of warm water and put it on the 
fire to boil. 

9. When the water boils we put tico eggs in to boil for 
ten minutes. 

10. We put the eggs into cold water for a minute, and 
then shell them. 

11. We cut the eggs with a sharp knife into little square 
pieces. 

12. We take the stewpan of sauce off the fire, and stand 
it on a piece of paper on the table. 

13. We add the cut-up eggs to the sauce, and stir them 
lightly in, not to break the pieces of egg. 

14. For serving we move the fish pudding carefully on 
to a hot dish, and pour the egg-sauce round. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. '-Whitebait. 193 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 3. 

\ 

WHITEBAIT. 

Whitebait varies in price ; it is in season from July to September. 

Now we will show you how to fry Whitebait. 

1. We take the whitebait^ wash them in iced water, pick 
them over carefully, and dry them well in a cloth. 

2. We take a sheet of paper and put ^on it a good tea- 
cup fnl of flour. 

3. We take the whitebait, and sprinkle them in the flour. 
They must not touch each other, and we must finger them 
as little as possible. 

4. We take up the paper and shake the whitebait well 
in \heflour, so that they are well covered withfaur. 

5. We turn the whitebait from the paper of flour into a 
whitebait basket, and sift all the loose flour back on to the 
paper. 

6. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a 
half of lard or clarified dripping. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. 
When the fat smokes it will then be hot enough. 

N.B. The fat requires to be much hotter for frying whitebait than for any- 
thing else. 

N.B. If possible the fat should be tested by a frimometer, and the heat 
should rise to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 

8. We then turn the whitebait a few at a time into the 
frying basket and put it into the fat for one minute. The 
whitebait should be quite crisp. 

9. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, 
stand the plate near the fire and turn the fried whitebait 
on to the paper to drain off the grease. (We serve them 
on a napkin on a hot dish. Lemon cut, and thin slices of 
brown bread and butter should be served with the white- 
bait^) 

Now it is finished. 

N 



194 National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 4. 

SOLE AU GRATIN. 

Average cost of " Sole an G 'rat '/;/." 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. /. 
i sole i o 

1 '.irsley and \ of shalot o o\ 

4 mushrooms o 2 

A teaspoonful of lemon juice | ^ 

Salt and pepper I 

2 tablesj&onsful of gla/e o 3 

i ox. butter o o\ 

C'rumhs o o\ 



Time required, til\nit one hour. 

Now we will show you how to cook Sole an Gratin. 

1. We take a small sole and cut off with a sharp knife 
the outside fins. 

2. We cut through the skin only, across the head and 
the tail, on both sides of \\\v fish. 

3. We take the skin off from the tail to the head. 

4. We wash the sole in cold water and dry it with a 
cloth, and nick it with a knife on both sides. 

5. We can cook the sole in fillets, if required, or whole. 
(N.B. --If in fillets, we fillet the sole the same as for the 

fried fillets in Lesson No. 6.; We are going to cook the 
sole whole. 

6. We take a small buncJi of parsley and dry it well in a 
cloth. 

7. We chop \.\\Q parsley up finely on a board. 

8. We chop a quarter of a shalot up finely and mix it 
with the parsley. 

9. The chopped parsley and shalot should fill a tablespoon. 

10. We take four small mushrooms, cut off the roots, and 
then wash the mushrooms well in a basin of cold water. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Sole au Gratin. 195 

11. We take them out of the water, dry them in a cloth 
and peel them. 

12. We chop them up finely. 

13. We take a dish, and spread a little butter on it with 
our fingers. 

14. We sprinkle half of the chopped parsley, sJialot, and 
mushroom over the bottom of the buttered dish. 

15. We pour half a teaspoonful of lemon juice over the 
chopped parsley, sJialot, and mushroom in the dish, also 
sprinkle half a saltspoonful of salt and a quarter of a salt- 
spoonful of pepper. 

16. We lay the sole carefully in the dish, and sprinkle 
over it the remainder of the chopped parsley, sJialot, and 
musJiroom. 

17. We sprinkle over the sole pepper and salt (enough 
to cover a threepenny piece], and squeeze over it half a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice. 

18. We take half an ounce of butter and cut it in small 
pieces and put them over the sole. 

19. We pour over it two tablespoonsful of half glaze. 

N.B- Glaze can be bought, or it can be made by reducing some strong 
stock over the fire. 

20. We take a wire sieve and put it over a piece of 
paper. 

21. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through 
the sieve. 

22. We take these bread crumbs and put them on a flat 
tin. We put this tin into the oven to dry, and slightly 
brown, the bread crumbs. 

23.' When the crumbs are done we sift them over the 
sole. 

24. We now put the dish into a brisk oven for ten 
minutes. We must take a fork and feel in the thick part 
of the sole if \\IQ fish is tender. 

25. We carefully move the sole with a slice on to a clean 
dish, and pour the sauce round. 

Now it is finished. 

N 2 



196 National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 5. 

FILLETS OF SOLES A LA MAJTRE 

D'HOTEL 

Average cost of " Fillets of Soles a hi Maitre d* Hotel" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

Sole i o 

Lemon juice o o\ 

i oz. of butter o i 

: { o?.. of flour o o j 

gill of cream o 3 

i 4? 
Time required about h^lfan hour. 



Now \ve will show you how to cook Fillets of Soles a la 
Maitre d Hotel. 

1. We take one sole and fillet it in the same way as for 
fried fillets (see " Fish," Lesson No. 6). 

2. We take the bones and fins of the sole and put them 
into a stewpan, with Jialf a pint of tenter and put it on the 
fire to boil. 

3. We take a flat tin pan and butter it with our fingers. 

4. We fold the fillets loosely over and lay them in the 
buttered tin. 

5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonfitl of salt over 
the fillets and squeeze six drops of lemon juice, and cover 
them with a piece of buttered paper. 

6. We put the tin with the fillets into a sharp oven for 
six minutes. 

Now we will make the Sauce. 

1. We take a small bunch of parsley, wash it, dry it, and 
chop it finely with a knife on a board. 

2. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of butter 
and three-quarters of an ounce of flour. 



Cooking Fish. Sole a la Maltre d? Hotel. 197 

3. We mix them smoothly together with a wooden 
spoon. 

4. We take the saucepan of fish stock and pour it by 
degrees through a strainer into the stewpan of butter and 

flour, stirring well. 

5. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture 
smoothly with a wooden spoon ; we now add two table- 
spoonsful of cream and stir it well until it boils. 

6. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

7. We add the chopped parsley to the mixture. 

8. We add half a ieaspoonful of lemon juice, salt, and 
pepper to taste, and stir the sauce well. 

9. Now we take the fillets out of the oven and arrange 
them on a hot dish for serving ; we add the liquor from 
the fillets of soles out of the tin, to the sauce. 

10. We pour the sauce over *ti\z fillets of soles. 

N.B. If there is no cream, the sauce can be made with milk ; the bones of 
the fish should therefore be boiled in half a pint of milk instead of water. 

Now it is finished. 



198 National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 6. 

FRIED FILLETS OF SOLE. 

Average cost of " Fried Fillets of Sole and AncJwvy Sauce. 

INGREDIENTS. 



/> " Fri(<1 Sole." 

5. </. 

Sole i o 

i egg o * 

Crumbs o o\ 



/',; " Anihcny Sauce." 

d 

i oz. butter ij 

A-oz. flour \ 

Anchovy saiav 



Time required about half an hour. 

Now we will show you how to Fry Filleted Soles. 

1. We take one sole, wash it well, and lay it on a board. 

2. \Ve take a sharp knife and cut off all the outside j#X, 

the /lead, and the tail. 

3. We take the skin off the sole, from the tail to the Jicad. 

4. We cut down the centre of \X\afisJi. 

5. We slide the knife along carefully between the flesh 
and the bones, holding the flesh in one hand and drawing 
it gently away as the knife cuts it away from the bone. 

6. We do both sides of the fish alike, and it will make 
four fillets. 

7. We put each fillet separately on a plate, and rub it 
over \\\\\\ flour. 

8. We take a wire sieve and stand it over a piece of 
paper. 

9. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the 
sieve. 

10. We take one egg and beat it on a plate with a knife. 

11. We lay the fillets in the egg, and egg them well all 
over with a brush. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Fried Fillets of Sole. 199 

12. We then put them in the bread crumbs and cover 
them well. We should be careful to finger them as little 
as possible. 

13. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a 
half of lard or clarified dripping. 

Now we must make the Butter Sauce with Anchovy (see 
below). 

14. We put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. 
Test the heat of it by throwing in a piece of bread, and if 
it makes a fizzing noise it is ready. 

N.B. The heat is tested best by a frimometer ; the heat should rise to 345. 

15. We take a frying basket and place in it ft\ fillets. 

16. The fillets should be slightly bent, or folded over, to 
prevent their being quite flat when fried. 

17. When the fat is quite hot we put in the frying 
basket with the fillets for three minutes. 

18. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 

19. When the fillets are done, they should be a pale 
brown ; we turn them out on to the paper on the plate to 
drain off the grease. 

20. We serve them in a hot dish on a napkin, garnished 
with a little fried parsley [Refer to " Fish," Lesson No. 7, 
Note 41]. 

1. We take a stewpan, and put in it one ounce of butter 
and half an ounce offiour. 

2. We mix them well with a wooden spoon. 

3. We add one gill and a half of cold water. 

4. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir well with a 
wooden spoon until the mixture is quite smooth and boils. 

5. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

6. We now add one tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, and 
stir it well into the butter sauce. 

7. For serving we pour it into a sauceboat. 

Now it is finished. 



2OO National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 7. 

LOBSTER CUTLETS. 

Average cost of "Lobster Cutlets" (about scrcn). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i Lobster from 2.*. to 3 o 

\\ oz. of butter o i\ 

\ a gill of cream o 3 

Seasoning and flavouring o i 

i oz. of flour o o V 

i egg o i i 

lliv.nl o o\ 

1 '.irsley o oi 

3 9} 
Time required ,//v/ three /h<nr.<. 



Xo\v \ve will sho\\- you ho\v to make Lobster Cutlets. 

1. \Yc take a small lobster it should be a hen lobster if 
possible. 

2. \Ye put the lobster on a b>ard. 

3. \Ye take a chopper and break the shell of the lobster 
by hitting it with the blade of the chopper, not with the 
edge ; 1st, because it would cut the lobster in pieces, and 
2nd, because it would spoil the edge of the chopper. 

4. \Ye break all the sliell off the claics and back with our 
fingers and take out all \\\v flesh. 

5. We cut this JlesJi up in pieces with a sharp knife to 
the size of small dice. 

6. If the lobster is a hen lobster we shall find a bit of 
coral in the neck, and a strip of it down the back. 

7. We take all this coral out of the lobster and wash it 
carefully in cold water in a small basin. 

8. We take the coral out of the basin and put it in a 
mortar with one ounce of butter. 

9. We pound the coral and the butter well with the 
pestle. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Lobster Cutlets. 201 

10. We take it out of the mortar and scrape the mortar 
out quite clean with a palette knife or a slice of raw potato, 
for none must be lost. 

11. We take a hair sieve and put it over a plate. 

12. We pass the pounded mixture through the sieve with 
a wooden spoon. 

13. We must turn up the sieve when all the mixture has. 
passed through, and we shall find some sticking inside. 

14. We scrape all .this carefully off with the spoon. 

15. We make it all into a little /<?/. 

16. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of flour 
and half an ounce of butter. We mix them well together 
with a wooden spoon. 

17. We add one gill of cold water (one gill is a quarter- 
pint). We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture 
with a wooden spoon till it boils and thickens. 

18. We add one tablcspoonfnl of cream and stir smoothly 
until it boils. 

19. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

20. We now stir in by degrees the pat of coral butter.. 
We must be sure the sauce is quite smooth and not 
lumpy. 

21. We add salt and pepper and a few grains of cayenne- 
pepper, according to taste, and about six drops of lemon juice y , 
and mix well. 

22. We add the chopped lobster and stir lightly, not to 
break up the lobster, but only to mix it with the sauce. 

23. We take a clean plate and pour the mixture from 
the stewpan on to it, smoothing it with a knife. 

24. We take a piece of paper and cut it round to the 
size of the plate. We butter it with a knife. 

25. We put the buttered paper over the mixture which 
is in the plate, to prevent the dust from getting in. 

26. We take the plate and stand it on ice (if possible), 
or put it in a cold place to cool. 



.202 National Training School for Cookery. 

27. \Ye take a wire sieve and put it over a piece of 
paper. 

28. We take a piece of crumb of bread and rub it 
through the wire sieve. 

29. \Ye take one egg and beat it slight!}' with a knife on 
a plate. 

30. We take a saucepan and put in it one pound and a 
Jialf of lard or clarified dripping. 

31. \Ye put the saucepan on the fire to heat the fat. It 
must not burn. 

32. \Ye take the plate of lobster mixture, which should 
by this time be cold and rather stiff. 

33. \Yc shape the mixture into cutlets. This quantity 
will make seven. 

34. \Ye dip the cutlets into the egg* and egg them well all 
over with a brush. 

35. \Ye take them carefully out of the egg and cover 
them well with the bread crumbs. 

N.Il. -If the cutlets are not well covered with cgi; and bread-crumbs they 
will burst in the frying. 

36. We take a frying basket and lay in it the lobster 
cutlets, a few at a time, so as not to touch each other. 

37. When the fat is quite hot we should test it by a 
frimometer if possible, and the heat should rise to 345, 
or by throwing into it a piece of bread. If it makes a 
sharp fizzing noise it is ready. 

38. \Ye put the frying basket into the fat for three 
minutes, or perhaps less. The cutlets should become a pale 
brown. 

39. We get a plate with a piece of whitey-brown paper 
on it, ready to receive the cutlets when they come out of 
the boiling fat. This is to drain all the grease from them. 

40. We take the small claims of the lobster and stick 
them into the end of each cutlet to represent the bone. 

41. We take a few sprigs of parsley, wash them, and 
dry them in a cloth, and put them into the frying basket. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Lobster Ciitlets. 203 

42. We just toss the basket with the parsley into the 
boiling /#/ for a second. 

43. We arrange the cutlets on a napkin on a hot dish, 
and garnish them with the fried parsley. 

Now it is finished. 



2O4 National Training School for Cookery, 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 8. 

BOILED COD FISH AND OYSTER 

SAUCE. 

Cod-fish varies in price considerably. 
It is in season from October to February. 

Average cost of " Oyster Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

5. a. 

i dozen oysters i 6 

J-oz. butter I 5 

J-oz. flour ) 

i tablespoonful of cream o i \ 

Lemon-juice and cayenne pepper o o\ 

i 8} 
Time r. ' 'y minutes. 



Now we will show you how to cook Cod Fish, and make 
Oyster Sauce. 

1. We take a slice of cod weighing one pound. 

2. We put it in a basin of cold water and wash it 
well. 

3. We take a small fish-kettle of boiling water, and add 
to it as much salt as will make the water taste salt. 

4. We put the fish-kettle on the fire. 

5. We take the cod out of the basin and place it on 
the drainer in the fish-kettle, and let it boil for fifteen 
minutes. 

N.B. It must not boil fast. 

6. When the slice of cod is sufficiently cooked the flesh 
Avill leave the bone. 

N.B. The bone is usually left in or the fish would break to pieces. 

7. We serve the slice of cod on a folded napkin on a 
hot dish with oyster sauce. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Oyster Sauce. 205 

For Oyster Sauce. 

1. We take one dozen oysters and the liquor that is with 
them, and put them into a small saucepan. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire and bring them to 
the boil, this is to blanch the oysters. 

3. We take the saucepan off the fire as soon as it boils. 

4. We take a basin and pour into it the oyster liquor 
through a strainer. 

5. We take the oysters out of the saucepan and lay them 
on a plate. 

6. We take off the beards and all the hard parts of the 
oysters, leaving only the soft part. 

7. We take a stewpan and put in half an ounce of butter, 
and a qiiarter of an ounce of flour. 

8. We mix the flour and the butter well together with 
a wooden spoon. 

9. We now add to the contents of the stewpan the 
oyster liquor which is in the basin. 

10. We put the stewpan on the fire and stir the mixture 
well with a wooden spoon until it boils and thickens. 

11. We now add one tablespoonful of cream, and stir 
again until it boils. 

12. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

13. We add six drops of lemon juice and a few grains of 
cayenne pepper according to taste. 

14. We take the trimmed oysters and cut them into 
small pieces. 

15. We add the pieces of oyster to the mixture in the 
stewpan and mix all together with a wooden spoon. 

Now it is finished. 



206 National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 9. 

GRILLED SALMON AND TARTARE 

SAUCE. 

Salmon varies in price considerably. 
It is in season from May to August. 

Average cost of " Tartarc Sauce" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 CS .................................... 2 



Salt and pepper .......................... | 

A tahlespoonful of French vinegar .......... J i 

1 'ar>ley .................................. ' 

Gherkins or capers .......................... i 

of oil ................................ 6 

10 
Time rer.iiid ,:' tit fifteen minutes. 



Now we will show you how to cook Salmon and make 
Tartarc Sauce. 

1. \Vc take a thick slice of salmou weighing one pound. 

2. We cut the salmon into two thin slices as it will cook 
better than in a thick piece. 

3. We put the salmon in a basin of cold water and wash 
it well. 

4. We take it out of the basin and dry it well with a cloth. 

5. \Ve take a plate and pour on it about a gill of salad oiL 

6. We dip the slices of salmon into the oil on both sides, 
the oil will prevent the fish from drying whilst cooking. 

7. We season the slices on both sides with pepper and 
salt. 

8. We take a gridiron and heat it on both sides by the 
fire. This is to prevent the fish sticking. 

9. When the gridiron is hot, we place on the slices of 
salmon and let them grill for a quarter of an /tour. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Grilled Salmon. 207 

10. We must turn the gridiron occasionally so as to 
cook thefts/I on both sides, which should become of a pale 
brown colour. 

11. When ihefis/i is quite done we can remove the bone 
in the centre of each slice. We serve the salmon on a 
napkin on a hot' dish. 

For Tartare Sauce. 

1. We take tivo eggs and put the yolks in one basin, and 
the whites (which will not be wanted) into another basin. 

2. We take a wooden spoon and just stir the yolks 
enough to break them. 

3. We add to them a saltspoonful of salt, and half a 
saltspoon ful of pepper, and a tablespoonful of French vinegar. 

4. We take a bottle of salad oil, and, putting our thumb 
half over the top, pour in drop by drop, the oil, stirring 
well with a whisk the whole time ; a gill of oil will be 
sufficient. 

5. If the sance is not sharp enough to taste we add about 
a teaspoonful more of vinegar, stirring it in smoothly. 

6. We might now stir in a teaspoonful of ready-made 
mustard or tarragon vinegar if it is liked. 

7. We take a small bunch of parsley, and put it in a 
small saucepan of boiling water with a little salt and soda- 
(enough to cover a threepenny piece} for two or three seconds. 
(N.B. Soda is to keep the parsley green). 

N.B. This is called blanching or parboiling Parsley. 

8. We take the parsley out and dry it thoroughly by- 
squeezing it in a cloth. We put it on a board and chop it 
up finely. There should be a teaspoonful. 

9. We take a few gherkins or capers and chop them up 
finely on a board, there should be enough to fill a table- 
spoon. 

10. We take these chopped gherkins or capers and H the 
chopped parsley and put them all into the sauce and fmix 
them in with a spoon. 

11. We serve the sauce in a sauce tureen. 

Now it is finished. 



2oS National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 10. 

BAKED MACKEREL OR HERRING. 

Average cost of " Mackerel or Herring " (baked with 
bread crumbs and herbs). 

INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

2 mackerel 6</. or herrings 2</. 

i dessertspoonful of chopped herbs and onions i 

i dessertspoonful of chopped parsley o^ 

1 dessertspoonful of bread crumbs I o i 

Pepper and salt j 

2 o/.. of dripping i 



With Herrings, ~,(f. 
With Mackerel. 9^. 

Time required nbsut fsrty minutes. 



Xow we will show you how to bake Mackerel or 
Herrings with herbs and bread crumbs. 

1. We wash the mackerel or Jierrings in cold water, dry 
them in a cloth, and put them upon a board. 

2. We take a sharp knife, cut off the heads of the fish 
and carefully split open each fish and take out the back 
bone. 

3. We lay oncfa/i open flat on a tin (skin downwards). 

4. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it in water, and dry 
it in a cloth. 

5. We put the parsley on a board and take away the 
stalks and chop it up as finely as possible (there should be 
about a dessertspoonful}. 

6. We take half an onion, peel it, put it on a board, with 
a sprig of thyme and marjoram, and chop it up finely (there 
should be about a dessertspoonful). 

7. We take a grater, stand it on the board and grate a 
few bread crumbs (there should be about a dessertspoonful}. 



Cooking Fish. Baked Mackerel or Herring. 209 

8. We mix the onion, Jierbs, and bread crumbs together. 

9. We sprinkle pepper and salt to taste, over the fish in 
the tin. 

10. We then sprinkle over the fish the mixture of herbs 
and bread crumbs. 

11. We take the other fish and lay it over the one in the 
tin (skin upwards). 

12. We put tn'o ounces of clarified dripping in a saucepan, 
and put it on the fire to melt. 

13. We pour the melted dripping over thcfis/i in the tin. 

14. We cover the tin with a dish, and stand it on the hot 
plate or in the oven to bake for half an hour. 

15. We must watch it and baste it occasionally with the 
dripping. 

16. For serving, we turn the fish carefully out of the tin 
on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



o 



2io National Training School for Cooker v. 

<_> -j ^ 

FISH. 

LESSON No. \ i. 

BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. 

Average cost of a " Stuffed Haddock " (baked). 

INGREDIENTS. 

rf. 

i Haddock 6 

I' read crumbs i 

i dessertspoonful of chopped ixirslrv ol 

i teaspoonful of chopped herbs ol 

1 Vpper and salt I 

2 07.. of suet I 

r 

2 oz. of dripping r 



1 1 



77 ;//<><</"." three-quarters of an hour. 



Now \vc will show y>u how to Stuff a Haddock and 
Hake it. 

1. \Vc take a haddock* wash it, clean it carefully in cold 
water, and dry it in a cloth. 

2. We stand a prater on a piece of paper and grate some 
hread crumbs. 

3. \Vc take a sprig of parsley* wash it in cold water, and 
dry it in a cloth. 

4. We put \\-\e parsley on a board, and chop it up finely. 
(There should be about a dessertspoonful) 

5. We take a small sprig of thyme and marjoram, take 
away the stalks* and chop the herbs up finely on a board. 
(There should be about a teaspoonful.} 

\ B. The stalks will do for flavouring, but they cannot be eaten as they 
are bitter. 

6. We mix all the herbs together with two tablespoonsful 
of the bread crumbs. 

N.B. The remainder of the bread crumbs \ve shall require for rolling the 
fish in. 

7. We add pepper and salt to taste, and mix the stuffing 
together with tivo ounces of suet. 



Cooking Fish. Baked Stuffed Haddock. 211 

8. We stuff the belly of \\\QJisk with the stuffing and sew 
it up. 

9. We break an egg into a plate, and brush the fish over 
with it, then roll it in the bread crumbs, covering it well all 
over. 

10. V^Q grease a dish or tin with a piece of dripping. 

11. We lay thcfa/i on the dish or tin and put it into the 
oven to bake for from half to three-quarters of an hour, 
basting it frequently with dripping. 

Now it is finished. 



o 2 



212 National Training School for Cookery. 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 12. 

FISH BAKED IN VINEGAR. 

Average cost of " Fish Baked in Vinegar? 

INGREDIENTS 

ii. 

6 Herrings 6 

30 peppercorns \ 

i blade of mace f 

i shallot j 

i bay leaf j 

i gill ( 1 pint) of vinegar I \ 

Salt J 



7 a 



Time ;-(.////;<</, iit-out si\ hours. 

Now \vc will show y>u how to Jnike J : ish (such as 
herrings or mackerel], in Vinegar. 

1. \Ye take the fish, wasli them, ami clean them tho- 
roughly in cold water. 

2. \Ye put the fish on a board, and cut them into thick 
pieces. 

3. \Ve lay these pieces close together in a stone jar, with 
thirty peppercorns and half a teaspoonful of salt. 

4. \Ve add one blade of mace and a bay-leaf. 

5. \Ve take one shallot, peel it, and add it, or part of it 
(according to taste), to \\\c fis/i. 

6. \Ye pour in one gill (a quarter of a pint) of vinegar, and 
tie a piece of brown paper tightly over the top of the jar 
with a piece of string. 

7. \Ye put the jar into a very slow oven to bake for six 
Jiours, or it may stand in a baker's oven all night. 

X.B. The fish is to be eaten cold. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Fried Plaice. 213 



FISH. 

LESSON No. 13. 

FRIED PLAICE. 

Average cost of " Plaice " (fried). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d, 

i Plaice 9 

i egg i 

Bread crumbs ) , 

Dripping for frying / 

io| 

Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to fry Plaice in Egg and 
Bread Crumbs, or Batter. 

1. We put about half a pound of clarified dripping into a 
saucepan, and put it on the fire to heat 

2. We take the plaice, wash it in cold water, and dry it 
in a cloth. 

3. We put i\\Q plaice on a board, and with a sharp knife 
carefully remove the skin from the back side of the^//, and 
cut off the head and the tail. 

4. We hold a grater over a piece of paper and grate 
some bread crumbs. 

5. We cut up fa& fish into slices or fillets. 

6. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it lightly with 
a knife. 

7. We dip the slices of fish into the egg, and egg them 
well all over. 

8. We then roll them in the bread crumbs, covering them 
well. 

N.B. We must shake off the loose crumbs. 

9. When the dripping is quite hot and smoking we care- 



214 National Training School for Cookery. 

fully put in the fisli, fingering it as little as possible, so as 
not to take off any of the egg or bread crumbs. 

N.B. We should not put too many pieces at a time into the dripping, as 
they must not touch each other. 

10. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on to a plate, 
and as thejfo// is fried we take it out of the dripping care- 
fully with a slice, and la}' it on the paper to drain off the 
grease. 

N.B. Soles or any fish can be fried in the same way. 

N.B. For frying fish in batter, we dip each piece of fish in the batter, made 
as for meat fritters (see Cooked Meat, Lesson Xo. 2), and fry it in the 
same way as above. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Fish. Boiled Fish. 215 

FISH. 

LESSON No. 14. 

BOILED FISH. 

Average cost of the Sauce to be served with boiled fish 

(about half a pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i dessertspoonful of cornflour or arrowroot .... o| 
i teaspoonful of vinegar or lemon juice Oj 



Time required for boiling fish, about twenty minutes to three-quarters of an hour, 

according to the size of the fish. 



Now we will show you how to Boil FisJi and make the 
Sauce. 

1. We put a saucepan or fish-kettle of water on the fire 
to boil. 

2. We take the fish and clean it thoroughly in cold 
water. 

3. When the water is quite boiling, we put in thejis/i on 
a strainer or a plate (there should be sufficient water just to 
cover thejis/i). 

4. We also put in some salt, enough to make the water 
taste salt. 

5. W T e put the lid on the saucepan, and move it to the 
side of the fire to simmer gently for from twenty minutes to 
three-quarters of au hour (according to the size of the fish). 

6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally. 

7. When we find that the skin of ihejis/i is cracking, we 
shall know that it is sufficiently boiled. 

While t\\QJis/i is boiling we make the sauce. 

8. We put a dessertspoonful of corn flour or arrowroot 
into a small saucepan, and mix it into a smooth paste with 
cold water. 



216 National Training School far Cookery. 

9. \Ve now add to it half a pint of the icater in which 
\\\cfis/t was boiled. 

10. \Vc put the saucepan on the fire and stir it until it 
boils and thickens. 

11. We then take the saucepan oft" the fire, and stand it 
on a piece of paper on the table. 

12. \Ve flavour the sancc with a teaspoonful of vinegar or 

lemon juice, and season it with pepper and salt according to 
taste. 



N.I;. If liked, the :ncc can be coloured \\ith //,;//"<; f t \i ,v/>, vnfn 7 of 

(burnt sui;. in. See Note at end of '" Brown 1'uivc " (Australian Moat, 

Nu. ^i. 



13. IMH- serving, we take the fish carefully out of the 
saucepan and place it on a hot dish, we pour the sauce into 
a >auce boat or a basin, or round thc_/Ls7/. 

\ >\v it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. --Boiled Potatoes. 217 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. j. 

BOILED AND STEAMED POTATOES. 



Time required for boiling : 

Old potatoes, about half an hour. 
New potatoes, about hvcuty minutes. 
Steamed potatoes, ha If an hour. 



Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. 
For boiling Old Potatoes. 

1. We wash two pounds of potatoes well in cold water, 
and scrub them clean with a scrubbing brush. 

N.B. If the potatoes are diseased then we take a sharp knife, peel them, 
and carefully cut, out the eyes and any black specks about the potato, but 
it is much better to boil them in their skins. 

2. We put them in a saucepan with cold water, enough 
to cover them, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire, to boil the potatoes 
for fro HI twenty minutes to half an hour. 

4. W T e should take a fork and put it into the potatoes, to 
feel if the centre is quite tender. 

5. When they are sufficiently boiled, we drain off all the 
water, and place a clean cloth over the potatoes in the 
saucepan. 

6. We stand the saucepan by the side of the fire, with 
the lid on, to steam the potatoes. 

7. When the potatoes have become quite dry, we take 
them carefully out of the saucepan, peel them without 
breaking them, and place them in a hot vegetable dish for 



serving. 



Now it is finished. 



218 National Training School far Cookery. 

For boiling Ncic Potatoes. 

1. We wash tico pounds vi potatoes in cold water. 

2. We take a knife and scrape them. 

3. We take a saucepan of warm water, and put it on the 
fire to boil. 

4. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the new 
potatoes, and sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of salt. 

5. We let them boil for a quarter of an hour ; we should 
take a fork and put it in \ht potatoes > to feel if the centre is 
quite tender. 

6. We then drain off all the water, and place a clean 
cloth in the saucepan, over the potatoes, and stand the 
saucepan by the side of the fire with the lid on. 

7. When the}' have become quite dry, we take them out 
of the saucepan, and arrange them on a hot vegetable dish 
f- >r serving. 

X< w it is finished. 



For Steamed Potatoes. 

X.B. Old potatoes only, can \x: steamed. 

1. We wash the potatoes well in cold water, and scrub 
them clean with a scrubbing brush. 

N.B. It is best to steam the potatoes in their skins, but they can be peeled 
if preferred. 

2. We take a potato steamer, fill the saucepan with hot 
water, and put it on the fire to boil. 

3. When the water is quite boiling, we put the potatoes 
in the steamer, and sprinkle them over with salt. 

4. We place the steamer on the saucepan of boiling 
water, and cover it down tight to keep the steam in. 

5. We let the potatoes steam for half 'an hour. 

6. We should take a fork and put it in faz potatoes, to 
feel if the centre is quite tender. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Steamed Potatoes. 219 

7. When they are sufficiently steamed, we take them 
carefully out of the steamer, peel them without breaking 
them, and arrange them on a hot vegetable dish for 
serving. 

Now it is finished. 



220 National Training School for Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 2. 

MASHED, SAUTE, AND BAKED 

POTATOES. 

Average cost of a dish of "Potatoes" 

INGREDIENTS. 



I- or " Mashed Polatoc:." 

d. 
2. ibs of old potatoes ............ 2 

i ox. of butter .................. 1 1 

i L;ill of milk .................. I 



1 'upper and salt .............. I 



Time required, about forty Jiiinu: 



I-\'i- " & Potato* 

d. 

N"i'\v potatoes 2 

2 O7.. of butter | , 

Salt ) - 



Time required, ,//c',v/ h^ilf an hour. 



Time required for Bob . ^out three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to dress Potatoes. 
Kor a dish of Maslied Potatoes. 

1. We take /;<.'<> pounds of old potatoes, wash them, and 
steam them as for steaming potatoes (see "Vegetables, Lesson 
No. i"). 

2. We take a stew-pan and put in it one ounce of butter, 
one gill of milk, and pepper and salt to taste. 

3. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 

4. We place a wire sieve over a plate. 

5. We take the steamed potatoes, one at a time, out of 
the steamer, put them on the sieve, and pass them through 
on to the plate as quickly as possible, rubbing them with a 
wooden spoon. 

6. We take the sifted potato and stir it into the boiling 
milk, in the stew-pan. 

7. We must now beat it all lightly together, and then 
turn it into a hot vegetable dish for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Baked Potatoes. 221 

<j <_> 

For Saute Potatoes 

1. We take some new potatoes, as small as possible, wash 
them in cold water, and scrape them clean. 

N.B. If the potatoes are large, they should be cut in halves, or even in 
quarters, and trimmed. 

2. We put them in a saucepan, with cold water. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and only just bring 
them to the boil. 

4. W T e then drain off the water, and wipe the potatoes 
dry in a clean cloth. 

5. We take a thick stewpan and put in it two ounces of 
butter, and the potatoes. 

6. We put the stewpan on a quick fire for about twenty 
minutes, to brown the potatoes ; we must watch them, and 
when they have begun to brown we should toss them occa- 
sionally in the stewpan, so as to brown them on all sides 
alike. 

7. We then strain off the butter, sprinkle them over with 
salt, and serve them on a hot vegetable dish. 

Now it is finished. 



For Baked Potatoes 

1. We take the potatoes, wash, and scrub them well with 
a scrubbing-brush in a basin of cold water. 

2. We take them out of the water, and dry them with a 
cloth. 

3. We put them in a brisk oven to bake ; they will' 1 take 
from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour, according to 
the heat of the oven, and the size of fas potatoes. 

4. We take a steel fork or skewer, and stick it into the 
potatoes, to see if they are done. They must be soft inside. 

5. We take a table napkin and fold it. 

6. We place the folded napkin on a hot dish. 

7. When the potatoes are sufficiently baked, we take 
them out of the oven, and arrange them on the napkin for 



serving. 



Now it is finished. 



222 \atioHn! Training School for Cookcrv. 

O -/ -^ 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON Xo. 3. 

FRIED POTATOES. 

Average cost of " Potato Chips or Fried S/u\'s of Potato* 

INGREDIENTS. 

i lb. of Potato- i 

I i 

The use of ij lb. ' ' urd for f 

Time, : :t minutes fir cither. 



Xow we will show vou how to drc^s 

t 

F ] /', / it Chips 

1. \Vc wash the potatoes well in cold water, and scrub 
them clean with a scrubbing-brush. 

2. \Ye take a .sharp knife, peel them, and carefully cut 
I the eyes and any black specks about them. 

3. \Ye must n<>\v peel the/tfte&tef ver}' think' in ribbons, 
and twist them into fancy >hapes. 

4. \\\ take a -aucepan and put in it one pound and 
half of clarified fat o- ////. 

5. \Ye put the saucepan on the fire to heat the/*?/. \\"e 
mu^t te>t the heat of it with a piece of bread (sec Lesson 

" I'ryiiv^"). 

6. \\"e take a flying-basket and put the ribbons tf potato 

in it. 

7. When \\\d fat is quite hot we put in the flying-basket 
with \^ potatoes for about si.v minutes. 

8. We place a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 

9. When the chips are done, they should be quite crisp 
and of a pale brown colour. We turn them out on to the 
paper, to drain off the grease, and sprinkle over them a little 
salt. 

10. We serve them on a hot dish. 

Xow it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Fried Potatoes. 223 

For Fried Slices of Potato 

1. We take \\\z potatoes, wash them clean, and peel them 
with a sharp knife. 

2. We put the potatoes on a board, and cut them in 
slices, about onc-eiglitJi of an inch in thickness. 

3. We take a saucepan and put in it one and a half pound 

of clarified dripping or lard. 

4. W 7 e take a frying-basket and place in it the sliced 
potatoes. 

5. We put the saucepan on the fire to warm the/*?/. 

6. When the fat is warm, but not very hot, we place in 
the frying-basket with the slices of potatoes, and let them 
boil in the/tf/, until they are quite tender. 



N.B. We should take out a piece of potato and press it between the thumb 
and finger, to fe^el that it is quite tender. 

7. We must now take out the frying-basket with the 
potatoes and place it on a plate. 

8. We leave the fat on the fire to heat. 

9. When the fat is quite hot, we place in the frying- 
basket with \h.Q potatoes for about two minutes. 

10. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate. 

11. When the potatoes are fried, they should be a pale 
brown ; we turn them out on to the paper to drain off the 



grease. 



13. We should sprinkle a little salt over them. 
13. For serving we arrange them on a hot dish, 

Now it is finished. 



224 National Training School for Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 4. 

POTATO CROQUETTES. 

Average cost of " Potato Croquettes" (about 18). 

INGREDIENTS. 

</. 
2 Ibs. potatoes .......................... 3 

i ox. butter .......................... I , 

i tablespoonful of milk ................ I 



-'.?* ............................ ...... 3 

A small bunch of paisley ..... ........... i 

Bread crumbs ........................ I 

per and salt ...................... I 



//;;/< . .:', about cue liour. 



\n\v we will show you lm\\- to make Potato Croquettes. 

1. \Ye take two pounds of potatoes, wash, scrub, and boil or 
steam them (see "Vegetables," Lesson Xo. i). 

N.I'. Any remains ol could be used up in this \vay, instead of 

boiling frebh ones. 

2. \Ve place a wire sieve <>ver a plate. 

3. We take the potatoes, one at a time, place them on 
the sieve and rub them through with a wooden 'spoon as 
quickly as possible on to the plate. 

N'.B. The/- can be pas>ed through the sieve much quicker while 

they are hot. 

4. \Ye put i oz. of butter and a tablespoonful of milk into 
a stewpan, and put it on the fire. 

5. \Yhen the milk and butter are hot, we stir in smoothly 
the sifted potato. 

6. \Ye take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

7. \Yc break two eggs, put the whites in a cup (as they 
are not required for present use), and stir t\\z yolks, one at 
a time, into fat potato in the stewpan. 

8. \Yc take t'^'o or tJiree sprigs of parsley, wash them in cold 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Potato Croquettes. 225 

water, dry them in a cloth, and chop them up finely on a 
board (there should be about a tedspoonfut). 

9. We sprinkle the parsley into the stewpan, and season 
the potato according to taste with pepper and salt. 

10. We turn the potato mixture on to a plate and stand 
it aside till cold. 

11. We put I Ib. of clarified dripping into a deep stewpan, 
and put it on the fire to heat; we must be careful it does 
not burn. 

12. We take some crumb of bread, and rub it through a 
wire sieve on to a piece of paper. 

13. When the potato mixture is cold, we form it into 
croquettes or balls, according to taste. 

14. We break an egg on to a plate and beat it up slightly 
with a knife. 

15. We dip the croquettes into the egg, and egg them 
well all over with a paste brush. 

16. We now roll them in the bread crumbs, covering 
them well all over. 

N. B. We must be careful to cover them smoothly and not too thickly. 

17. We take a frying basket and arrange the croquettes 
in it ; but we must finger them as little as possible, and 
not allow them to touch each other. 

18. When the fat on the fire is quite hot and smoking 
(we should test the heat by throwing in a piece of bread 
which should fry brown directly), we put in the frying 
basket for two minutes or so to fry the croquettes a pale 
yellow. 

19. We put a piece of whitey-brown paper on a plate, 
and as the croquettes are fried we turn them on to the 
paper to drain off the grease. 

20. We put three or four small sprigs* of parsley (washed 
and dried) into the frying basket, and just toss the basket 
into the boiling fat for a second or so. 

21. For serving, we arrange the croquettes tastily on a 
hot dish, with ft& fried parsley in the centre. 

Now it is finished. 



226 National Training School for Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 5. 

BRUSSELS SPROUTS. 

Average cost of dressing " Brussels Sprouts:' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

P.russels sprouts 6 

Salt j 

a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda .... f 

i ounce of butter i 

Pep[>er ) 

7\ 
Time rc:ui)\d, ,.\V/// hjlfiiti hour. 



Now we will show you how to dress Brussels Sprouts. 

1. \Ve take the Brussels sprouts, wash them well in two 
<>r three waters, and trim them. 

2. \Ve take a saucepan with plenty <>f warm water in it. 

3. \Ve put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

4. \Yheii the water is quite boiling, we add a tablespoon- 
ful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. 

5. \Ve put in the sprouts, and let them boil quickly for 
from ten to ticcnty minutes, according to their age. 

N.B. Young sprouts take the shortest time to boil. 

6. \Ve must keep the lid off the saucepan the whole time, 

7. After that time, we pour the sprouts into a cullender 
to drain. 

8. When the sprouts arc quite dry, we put them in a 
sautepan with one ounce of butter. 

9. We sprinkle over them a little pepper and salt, and toss 
them over the fire for a few minutes, but they must not fry. 

10. For serving, we arrange them tastily on a hot vege- 
table dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. - Carrots & Turnips. 227 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 6. 

CARROTS AND TURNIPS. 

Average cost of dressing " Carrots and Turnips? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d, 

Carrots or Turnips ) , 

2 tablespoonsful of salt ) 

Half a pint of good stock 3! 

Dessertspoonful of castor sugar o\ 

Half an ounce of butter . . oi- 



Time required, about threc-qiiarters of an 



Now we will show you how to dress Carrots and Turnips. 
For Carrots 

1. We take a saucepan of water, and put it on the fire to 
boil. 

2. When the water is quite boiling, we add a tablespoon- 
ful of salt. 

3. We take the carrots, and if they are quite young, we 
put them into the saucepan of boiling water, to boil for 
twenty minutes. 

4. We must take a fork and stick it in the carrots to feel 
that they are quite tender all through. 

5. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, 
and rub them clean with a cloth. 

N.B. If the carrots are old we should wash, scrape them clean with a 
knife, and cut them to the shape of young carrots, or cut them in 
quarters, or in fancy shapes, with a cutter, before boiling. 

6. We should let them boil for from half an hour to- 
three-quarters of an Jiour. 

7. We take a stewpan and put the boiled carrots in it. 

8. We pour in some good stock, enough to cover them. 

9. We put in a piece of butter, the size of a nut, and 
sprinkle about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar over them. 

p 2 



228 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and reduce 
to a glaze over the carrots. 

11. \Ve then take them out of the stewpan, and they are 
ready for serving. 

For Turnips 

1. We take the turnips and wash them well in cold 
water. 

2. We take them out of the water, put them on a board, 
peel them with a sharp knife, and cut them in quarters, or 
cut them out with a round cutter. 

3. We take a saucepan of water and put it on the fire to 
boil. 

4. When the water is quite boiling we add a tablespoon- 
fit! of salt. 

5. We now put in the cut up turnips, and let them boil 
for from ten to fifteen minutes. 

6. When they arc sufficiently boiled, we take them out 
of the saucepan, and put them into a stewpan with some 
good stock, enough to cover them. 

7. We add to them a piece of butter, the size of a nut, 
and sprinkle over them about a teaspoon ful of white castor 



ii gar. 



8. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and reduce to 
a glaze over the turnips. 

9. We then take them out of the stewpan, and they are 
ready for servin . 

N.B. The turnips and the carrots, as described above, can be served with 
braised veal (see Braised Fillet of Veal) or separately as a vegetable. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. -Boiled Cauliflower. 229 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 7. 

BOILED CAULIFLOWER AND CAULI- 
FLOWER AU GRATIN. 

Average cost of dressing " Cauliflower au Gratin" 

INGREDIENTS- 

d. 

Cauliflower 6 

Salt i 

Half an ounce of butter \ i 

1 ounce of flour ; 

Tablespoonful of cream i 

2 ounces of Parmesan cheese ) 

Cayenne pepper j ^ 

~\ 
Time reqtiired, aboiit an hour. 



Now we will show you how to dress a CauKflower. 

1. We take a cauliflower and wash it well in two or three 
waters, and take a knife, and cut off the end of the stalk 
and any withered outside leaves. 

2. We put it in a basin of cold water, with a dessertspoon- 
ful of salt, and let it stand for two or three minutes. 

3. We take a large saucepan full of water, and put it on 
the fire to boil. 

4. When the water is quite boiling we put in a table- 
spoonful of salt. 

5. We take the cauliflower out of the salt and water, 
and place it in the saucepan with the flower downwards, 
and let it boil till it is quite tender for from fifteen or 
twenty minutes. 

6. We must take it carefully out with a slice, and feel 
the centre of the flower with our finger, to see that it is 
quite tender. 

7. After that time we take it out of the saucepan, and 
put it on a sieve to drain. 

8. For serving, we place it on a hot vegetable dish. 



230 National Training School for Cookery. 

If Cauliflower an Gratin be required 

1. We take the cauliflower and wash it, and boil it in the 
same way as described above, from Note I to Note 6. 

2. When the cauliflower is sufficiently boiled, we take it 
out of the saucepan with a slice and put it on a plate. 

3. \Ve take a knife and cut oft" all the outside green 
leaves. 

4. We take a cloth and squeeze all the water out of the 
cauliflower. 

5. We put half 'an ounce of butter and one ounce of flour 
in a stewpan, and mix them well together with a wooden 
spoon. 

6. We pour in one gill (or quarter of a pint) of cold 
water. 

7. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly 
until it boils and thickens. 

8. We now add one tdblespoonful of cream, cayenne 
pepper (about as much as would very thinly cover Jialf the 
top of a threepenny piece), and salt, according to taste. 

9. We stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, until the 
sauce is required for use. 

10. We Like tico ounces of Parmesan cheese, and grate it 
\vith a grater on to a piece of paper. 

11. We n\v take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on 
a piece of paper on the table. 

12. We stir rather more than half the grated cheese into 
the sauce. 

13. We place the cauliflower on a tin dish. 

14. We pour the sauce all over the cauliflower. 

15. We take the remainder of the grated cheese and 
sprinkle it over the cauliflower^ and brown the top of it with 
a hot salamander. 

16. The cauliflower should become a pale brown, and be 
served hot. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Spinach. 231 
VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 8. 

SPINACH. 

Average cost of dressing " Spinach'.' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 Ibs. of spinach o 6 

Salt \ 3 

3 ounces of butter j 

Half a gill of cream o 3 

Pepper I i 

A slice of bread j 

i i 
Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to dress Spinach. 

1. We take two pounds of spinach and place it on a board. 

2. We must pick off all the stalks from the leaves. 

3. We put the leaves in plenty of cold water, and wash 
them two or three times. 

4. We turn the spinach on to a cullender to drain. 

5. We take a large saucepan and put the spinach into it, 
sprinkle a saltspoonful of salt over it, and put it on the fire 
to boil. The drops of water on the leaves and their own 
juice are sufficient without adding any water. 

6. We let it boil quickly for ten minutes, with the 
cover off. 

7. We then pour the spinach into the cullender to drain. 

8. We must now press all the water out of the spinach, 
squeezing it quite dry. 

9. We put it on a board and chop it up as finely as 
possible. 

N.B. If preferred, the spinach might be rubbed through a wire sieve 
instead of chopped up. 

10. We take a stewpan and put in it one ounce of btitter. 



232 National Training School for Cookery. 

11. We put the spinach in the stewpan, and add about 
half a saltspoonful of pepper and a saltspoonful of salt or more, 
according to taste, and half a gill of cream, and mix all 
together with a wooden spoon. 

12. \Ye put the stewpan on the fire and stir the spinach 
until it is quite hot. 

13. We cut a slice of crumb of bread, about a quarter of 
an inch in thickness, put it on a board, and cut it up into 
triangular pieces. 

14. \Yc take a frying-pan, and put into it tiuo ounces of 
butter or clarified dripping. 

15. We put the frying-pan on the fire to heat thcfaf. 

16. When the fat is quite hot, we throw in the pieces of 
bread, and let them fry a pale brown. 

17. We take the pieces of fried bread and arrange them 
round a hot vegetable dish to form a wall. 

18. We serve the dressed spinach in the centre. 

Xo\v it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Peas. 233 
VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 9. 

PEAS. 

Average cost of dressing " Peas!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d, 

\ a peck of Peas i o 

Salt i 

of a saltspoonful of carbonate of soda . . > o of 

2 an ounce of butter ) 

Castor sugar o oj 

i i 
Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to dress Peas. 

1. We take the peas and shell them. 

2. We take a saucepan full of warm water and put it on 
the fire to boil. 

3. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the shelled 
peas, a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a saltspoonful of 
carbonate of soda. 

N.B. The soda will keep the peas a good colour. 

4. We let them boil for from fifteen to twenty minutes, 
according to the age of the peas. (The cover should be off 
the saucepan.) 

5. After that time we should feel the peas, that they are 
quite soft, we then take them out of the saucepan and drain 
off all the water in a cullender. 

6. We now turn the peas into a saute-pan with half an 
ounce of butter. 

7. We sprinkle about half a teaspoonful of salt, and 
about a teaspoonful of castor sugar over the peas, and toss 
them over the fire for a few minutes, but they must not fry. 

8. For serving, we arrange them on a hot vegetable dish. 

.Now it is finished. 



234 National Training School for Cookery. 

VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 10. 

HARICOT BEANS. 

Average cost of "Haricot Beans'" with "Parsley and Butter. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
I pint of beans ............................ 3 

i 02. of butter .............................. i 

A sprig of parsley ........................ | 

Pepper and salt .......................... / o^ 

\ 02. of clarified dripping .................. ) 



Time required, after the leans arc soaked, about tu'O hours and ten minutes. 



Now we will show you how to boil Haricot Beans, and 
serve them with parsley and butter. 

1. We soak one pint of haricot leans in cold water all 
night. 

2. We put them int> a saucepan with three pints of cold 
icater, and a quarter of an ounce of clarified dripping. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils 
we move it rather to the side of the fire and let it boil very 
gently for tiao Jiours. 

4. After that time we turn the leans on to a cullender, 
drain off the water, and put the leans back into the dry 
saucepan with one ounce of butter. 

5. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, and dry it in a 
cloth, put it on a board and chop it up as finely as possible. 

6. We sprinkle the parsley over the leans and season 
them with pepper and salt. 

7. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the contents 
carefully for about five minutes. 

8. For serving, we turn the beans on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Turnips. 235 
VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. u. 

TURNIPS. 

Average cost of a dish of " Turnips " boiled and mashed. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4 large turnips 4 

i oz. of butter ) 

Pepper and salt j 

5 
Time required, about three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to boil Turnips and mash 
them. 

1. We put two quarts of warm water and a tdblespoonful 
of salt into a saucepan, and put it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take some turnips, wash them in cold water, and 
peel them thickly with a sharp knife. 

3. If the turnips are very large, we should cut them in 
quarters. 

4. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we 
put in the turnips and let them boil gently until they are 
quite tender. 

5. We should feel them with a fork to see if they are 
tender all through. 

6. We then turn them into a cullender and drain them 
very dry. 

7. For serving, we put them on to a hot dish. If mashed 
turnips are required, 

8. We boil them as above. 

9. We squeeze them as dry as possible in the cullender, 
pressing them with a plate. 

10. When the turnips are quite free from water, we hold 
the cullender over a saucepan and rub the ttirnips through 
with a wooden spoon. 



236 National Training School for Cookery. 

11. We put one ounce of butter into the saucepan with the 
turnips and pepper and salt to taste. 

12. \Ve put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the contents 
until the butter is well mixed with the turnips and they are 
thoroughly warmed through. 

13. For serving, we turn the turnips on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Cooking Vegetables. Carrots. 237 
VEGETABLES. 

LESSON No. 12. 

CARROTS. 

Average cost of a dish of " Carrots? 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Carrots, 6 young 3^. , or 4 old j 

i tablespoonful of salt \ 4 

A small piece of soda the size of a nut ) 



Now we will show you how to boil Carrots. 

1. We put two quarts of warm water into a saucepan 
with one good tablespoonful of salt, and a small piece of soda 
the size of a nut, and put it on the fire to boil. 

2. We take the carrots and cut off the green tops and 
wash the carrots well in cold water. 

3. We scrape the carrots clean with a sharp knife, and 
carefully remove any black specks. 

4. If the carrots are very large we cut them in halves 
and quarters. 

5. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the carrots and let them boil until they are tender. 

N.B. Young carrots need not be cut up, nor do they take so long to boil as 
old ones. 

6. For serving we turn the carrots into a cullender to 
drain, and then put them on a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



238 National Training School for Cookery. 

SAUCES. 

LESSON No. i. 

WHITE SAUCE. 

Average cost of " White Sauce" (about one pint and a half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. /. 

1 pint of white stock o 7^ 

2 oz. of butter o 2} 

i and 4 oz. of flour o o j 

6 Mushrooms o 3 

I lalf a pint of cream . , i o 

2 Of 

Time required (if the Steck is made], about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make White Sauce. 

1. We put tn'o ounces of butter into a stewpan. 

2. We put the stewpan on the fire, and when the butter 
is melted we stir in one onnce and a half of flour with a 
wooden spoon. 

3. We add one pint of white stock (see Lesson on "Stock;, 
and stir it until it boils. 

4. We take half a dozen mushrooms, wash them and peel 
them. 

5. We add them to the sauee. 

6. We let it come to the boil again, then move the stew- 
pan to the side of the fire, with the lid half on, to simmer 
for twenty minutes, to throw up the butter. 

7. As the butter rises we skim it off with an iron spoon.' 

8. We pour the sauce through a tammy cloth into 
another saucepan. 

9. We put this saucepan on the fire, and stir till it boils, 
then add half a pint of cream. 

10. We pour it into a basin and stir while it cools, it is 
then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Sazices. Brown Sauce. 

SAUCES. 

LESSON No. 2. 

BROWN SAUCE. 

Average cost of "Brown Sauce" (about one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

i pint of brown stock o 8 

1 and j oz. of flour \ i 

Salt and pepper j 

2 oz. butter o 2 

4 mushrooms o 2 




Time reqiiired, aboiit 15 minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make Broivn Sauce. 

1. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and put it 
on the fire to melt. 

2. We take four mushrooms (if large, or six smalt], wash 
them well in cold water, cut off the end of the stalks, and 
peel them. 

3. When the butter in the stewpan is melted, we stir in 
tivo ounces of flour, and mix them into a smooth paste with 
a wooden spoon. 

4. We now add one pint of brown stock and the mush- 
rooms, and stir the sauce smoothly over the fire, until it 
boils and thickens. 

N.B. The mushrooms might be omitted if liked, and the sauce flavoured 
according to the dish with which it is to be served. 

5. We then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer gently for ten minutes. 

6. We must watch it carefully, and skim off all the 
butter as it rises to the top of the sauce. 

7. We season the sauce with pepper and salt according to 
taste. 

N.B. If the sauce is not brown enough in colour, a teaspoonful of caramel 
(burnt sugar) might be stirred into it. 

8. We now strain the sauce through a tammy sieve into 
a basin, and it is then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



240 National Training School for Cookery. 

SAUCES. 

LESSON No. 3. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Average cost of " Mayonnaise Sauce" (about lialf a pint}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 eggs 2 

Salt and pepper ) 

i teaspoonful of French vinegar \ 

i t'-aspoonful of mustard ( . 

i teaspoonful of Tarragon vinegar j 

i gill of salad oil 6 



Time required, about 10 minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make Mayonnaise Sauce. 

1. We take tivo e^s and put the yolks in one basin and 
the ichitcs (which will not be wanted) into another basin. 

2. We take a wooden spoon and just stir the yolks 
enough to break them. 

3. We add to them a saltspoonful of salt and Jialf a salt- 
spoonful of pepper, and a tablespoonfnl of French 1'incgar. 

4. We take a bottle of salad oil, and, putting our thumb 
half over the top, pour in, drop by drop, the oil, stirring 
well with a whisk the whole time ; a gill of oil will be 
sufficient. 

N.B. \Ve might add a tea spoonful cf ready-made mustard or tarragon 
vinegar if liked, stirring it in smoothly. 

5. The sauce is now ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Sauces. Sauce Piquante. 241 

SAUCES. 

LESSON No. 4. 

SAUCE PIQUANTE. 

Average cost of Sauce Piqnantc or sharp sauce (about 

half a pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i shalot, half a carrot, 3 mushrooms 3 

i oz. of butter i j 

i oz. of flour o| 

Half a pint of good brown stock 3! 

i sprig of thyme 

1 bay leaf 

Salt and Cayenne pepper 

2 tablespoonsful of vinegar 

Time required, about twenty-Jive minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make Sauce Piquautc or 
sharp sauce. 

1. We take a shalot and three mushrooms, and peel them, 
we scrape half a carrot, and then chop them up together 
very finely on a board. 

2. We put the chopped shalot, carrot, and mushroom into 
a stewpan with one ounce of butter. 

3. We put the stewpan on the fire and fry them brown. 

4. We then stir in one ounce of flour and half a pint of 
good brown stock (see Lesson on " Stock "). 

5. We also add one sprig of thyme, a bay -leaf, and one 
tablcspoonful of Harvey Sauce, and stir the sauce well until 
it boils. 

6. We then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, 
and let it simmer for twenty minutes. 

7. We season the sauce with salt according to taste, 
Cayenne pepper (enough to cover very thinly half the top of 
a threepenny piece), and tivo tablespoonsful of vinegar. 

8. We strain the sauce and it is then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 

Q 



242 National Training School for Cookery. 

SAUCES. 

LESSON No. 5. 

DUTCH SAUCE. 

Average cost of " Dutch Sauce!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

Half a pint of melted butter 3 

5 yolks of eggs 5 

Salt and Cayenne pepper I T 

2 teaspoonsful of lemon juice I 

9 
Time rc.jnirfJ. <//v-v/ ten r.iinntfs. 



Now we will show you how to make Dutch Sauce. 

1. We take half a pint of melted butter and put it into a 
stewpan. 

2. We add \\\c yolks of fire eggs. 

3. We stand the stewpan in a saucepan of hot water over 
the fire, and stir well with a wooden spoon. 

4. We season it with salt according to taste, and Cayenne 
pepper (enough to cover very thinly half the top of a threepenny 

piece}. 

5. We must stir continually until it thickens, and we 
must not let the sauce boil or it will curdle. 

6. Just before the sauce is finished we stir in tivo tea- 
spoonsful of lemon juice. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Pastry. Puff Paste. 24 

PASTRY. 

LESSON No. i. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Average cost of ll Puff Paste" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ lb. of flour \ 

5 lb. of fresh butter 5! 

Yolk of i egg | 

Salt i 

A few drops of lemon juice ) 

7\ 
Time required, one hour and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make Puff Paste. 

1. We take a quarter of a pound of flour and put it in a 
heap, on a clean board, and make a well in the centre of 
ft\z flour. 

2. We take half the yolk of an egg and put it in the 
well. 

3. We add six drops of lemon juice. 

4. We take a quarter of a pound of butter and lay it on a 
clean cloth. 

5. We fold the cloth over the butter and squeeze it to 
get all the water out of the butter. 

6. We mix all these ingredients well together (with our 
hands), adding water to make the paste of the same con- 
sistency as the squeezed butter. 

7. We take a rolling pin and flour it, and also sprinkle 
flour on the board to prevent the paste from sticking. 

8. W r e roll out the paste rather thin, to about a quarter 
of an inch in thickness. 

9. \Ve place the pat of squeezed butter on one half of the 
paste and fold the other half over the butter, so as to cover 
it entirely, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 

Q 2 



244 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. \Ve let it stand on a plate in a cool place for a quarter 
of an hour. 

N.B. It is not necessary to do this in cold weather, it might be rolled at 
once. 

11. We bring the paste back and place it on the board, 
we roll it out with the rolling pin and fold it over in three. 

12. We turn it round with the roucrh edc^es towards us. 

*> o 

13. \Ve roll it again and fold it in three. 

14. We put it aside again for a quarter of an hour. 

15. \Vc bring it back on the board and roll it with a 
rolling pin and fold it in three, twice as before. 

16. \Ve put it aside again for a quarter of an hour. . 

17. \Ye bring it back to the board and roll it and fold it 
in three as before. 

18. \Ve put it aside for another quarter of an hour. 

19. \Ve bring it back to the board, and roll it out ready, 
cither to cover an apple tart, to make tartlets, or patty cases. 

20. If the paste is used for an apple tart, \ve put it over 
the apples in the same way a> the short crust over the fruit 
tart (see "Pastry," Lesson No. 2). 

21. If the/v?.\7Vis used for tartlets, the paste should be 
one-eighth of an inch thick. 

22. \Ye take the tartlet tins and wet them with \\\z paste 
brush. 

23. \Ve cut the paste out with a cutter, a size larger than 
the tins. The cutter must be floured or the paste will stick 
to it. 

24. We fix the paste into the tins, and put a dummy to 
prevent \\\t paste rising straight. 

25. We put the tins on a baking sheet. 

26. We put the baking sheet in a hot oven for six 
minutes, the Jieat of the oi'en should rise to 300 Fahrenheit) 
according to the thermometer fixed in the oven. 

27. When the tartlets are baked sufficiently, we take 
them out of the oven. 



Lessons on Making Pastry.- -Puff Paste. 245 

28. We take out the dummies, and turn the paste out of 
the tin. 

29. We fill in the tartlets with jam. 



N.B. If Patty Cases are required, 

1. We take ft\&puffpaste> it should be half an inch thick, 
and stamp it out with a round cutter, the usual size of an 
oyster patty. 

2. We take these cut rounds, and place them on a 
baking sheet. 

3. We take a round cutter, three sizes smaller, and dip it 
in hot water, and stamp the cut rounds of paste in the 
centre, but not right through. 

4. We put the baking sheet in a hot oven for six minutes. 

N.B. The heat of the oven should be the same as for tartlets. 

5. When the patties are sufficiently baked, we take the 
baking sheet out of the oven. 

6. The cut centre of each patty case will have risen so 
that we can take it off. 

7. We take a small knife, and with the point cut out all 
the moist paste from the centre of the patty case. 

8. Now r the cases are ready to be filled in with either 
prepared oysters, minced veal, chicken, or pheasant, &c., 
according to taste. 

Now it is finished. 



246 National Training School for Cookery. 

PASTRY. 

LESSON Xo. 2. 

SHORT CRUST. 

Average cost of " Short Crust.'' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6 ox. of flour i 

4 oz. of but ter 4 ' 

i oz. of castor sugar 

Yolk of i eg<; 

Silt ( 

A tr.i-poont'ul of lemon juice } 



Time rttjuircJ for nuking, about a quarter of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Short Crust. 

1. We take six ounces of four and/iw ounces of butter. 

2. \Ye put these on a clean board, and mix them well 
together, rubbing them lightly with our hands until there 
are no lumps of butter left, and the flour and butter 
resemble sifted bread crumbs. 

3. We take a large tablespoonful of castor sugar. 

4. We mix the sugar well into the buttered flour. 

6. We heap it on the board, making a well in the centre. 

6. We take the yolk of one egg and place it in the well. 

7. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over 
the egg. 

8. We add a teaspoonful of lemon juice. 

9. We add a large tablespoonful of cold water. 

10. We slowly and lightly mix all these ingredients with 
our fingers until they are formed into a stiff paste. 

11. We must keep our hands and the board well floured 
that i\\c paste may not stick. 

12. We fold the paste over and knead it lightly with our 
knuckles. 



Lessons on Making Pastry.- -Short Crust. 247 

13. We take a rolling pin and flour it, and roll out the 
paste to the size and thickness required. 

14. If the paste is for a fruit tart we roll it out to the 
shape of the pie dish, only a little larger, and to the thick- 
ness of about a quarter of an inch. 

15. We arrange the fruit in the pie dish, heaped up in 
the centre. 

16. We sprinkle a tablcspoonful of moist sugar over the 
fruit, or more or less according to the fruit used. 

17. We take a paste brush and wet the edge of the dish 
with water, or a little white of egg. 

18. We cut a strip of the paste the width of the edge of 
the pie dish and place it round the edge of the dish. 

19. We take the paste brush again, and wet the edge of 
the paste with water or white of egg. 

20. We take the remaining paste and lay it over the pie 
dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 

21. We must be very careful not to break the paste. 

22. We take a knife and trim off all the rough edges of 

round the ede of the dish. 



23. We take a knife and with the back of the blade we 
make little notches in the edge of the paste, thus, pressing 
the paste firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper 
place. 

24. We take a skewer and make a little hole through 
the/tfjfe on either side of the tart, to let out the steam. 

25. We take the paste brush, and wet the tart all over 
with water. 

26. We sprinkle some castor sugar over the tart. This 
is to glaze it. 

27. We now put the tart into a hot oven (the heat of 
the oven should rise to 240 Fahrenheit] for half an four, or 
three quarters of an hour, according to the size of the tart. 
We must watch it occasionally and turn it, to prevent its 
burning. It should become a pale brown. 

Now it is finished. 



248 National Training School for Cookery. 

PASTRY. 

LESSON No. 3. 

GENOESE PASTRY. 

Average cost of " Genoese Pastry" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

6 ozs. of flour .......................... o i 

6 ozs. of butter ........................ o o ,' 

8 ozs. of castor sus^ir .................... o 3 

7 eggs ................................ o 7 



52 



Time n'lnircd, iib^nt one hour. 



Now \ve will show you how to make Genoese Pastry. 

1. \Ve take a small stcwpan and put in it six ounces of 
butter. 

2. \Ve put the stewpan on the fire to melt the butter. 
\Ve must be careful that it docs not burn or boil. 

3. We take a round tin two inches deep and fit into it a 
sheet of paper, cut round so that it will allow one inch of 
paper to be above the 'edge of the tin. 

4. \Ye must butter the paper with a paste brush dipped 
in the melted butter. 

5. We stand a wire sieve over a plate, and rub through 
it sz'.v ounees of flour. 

6. We take a large basin and break into it seven eggs. 

7. We add half a pound of castor sugar. 

8. We take a large saucepan of boiling water and put it 
on the fire. 

9. We stand the basin containing the eggs and sugar in 
the saucepan of boiling water, and whip the eggs and sugar 
for twenty minutes. The}- must not get very hot. 

10. We take the basin out of the saucepan, and stand it 
on the table. 



Lessons on Making Pastry. Genoese Pastry. 249 

11. We now add the butter and then sprinkle in the 
sifted flour, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon all the 
time. 

12. We pour this mixture into the prepared tin. 

13. We put the tin into a quick oven to bake (the Jieat of 
the oven should rise to 220) for half an Jwur. The mixture 
should become a pale brown. 

N.B. When the paste is sufficiently baked no mark should remain on it if 
pressed with the finger. 

14. When it is quite baked, we take the tin out of the 
oven, and turn the cake upside down on a hair sieve to 
cool. 

15. When it is cold we cut it into little shapes with a 
cutter. Sandwiches of jam can be made with it if required. 

Now it is finished. 



250 National Training School for Cookery. 

PASTRY. 

LESSON No. 4. 

ROUGH PUFF PASTE. 

Average cost of "Rough Puff Pasted 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

8 ozs. of flour i } . 

6 ozs. of butter 6j 

The yolk of i rtji; ) 

S.ilt ,. i 

^ .1 teaspoonful of lemon juice ) 



Time re ;nh\\i, about a yiurter ?f an //<>/// to in a Ice. 



Xo\v \ve will show you h<\\- to make l\ong/i Puff Paste. 

1. \Ye take eigJit ounces of flour and six ounces of butter 
and put them on a clean board. 

2. We take a knife and chop up the butter in \\\cj!t>nr. 

3. We heap it on the b >ard, making a well in the centre. 

4. We take \\\v yolk of one egg, and place it in the well. 

5. We sprinkle a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt over the 
e^g, and squeeze half a tcaspoouful of leinon juice. 

6. We add a large tablcspoonful of cold icater, and beat it 
up slightly with a knife. 

7. We no\v slowly, and lightly, mix it all with our 
fingers, adding more water if necessary, until it be formed 
into a stiff paste. 

8. We must keep our hands and the board well floured, 
that the paste may not stick. 

9. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste, 
and fold it over in half. 

10. We turn it round with the rough edges towards us. 

11. We roll it again and fold it in half. 



Lessons on Making Pastry. Rough Pujff Paste. 251 

12. We must roll out the paste, and fold it twice more 
as before. 

N.B. The paste is now ready to be used for a meat pie, apple tart, tart- 
lets, &c. The heat of the oven should rise to 280, but it must be reduced 
down to 220 after the first quarter of an hour. 

Now it is finished. 






252 National Training School for Cookery. 

PASTRY 

LESSOX No. 5. 

SUET CRUST FOR BEEF-STEAK 

PUDDING. 

Average cost of "One Quart Beef-Steak Pudding i 

Oysters" 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. <f. 

| lb. of flour o i \ 

5 ozs. of beef suet o 2 : { 

2 Ibs. of rump or l)ecf->u-ak i 

I Vpper and salt ) ~ 

i (loz. of oysters 2 o 

i gill of stock o i ] 

7~^ 

Time re :ii ire .' three h, ttrs iind a half. 



Now we will show you liow to make Suet Crust, to be 
used for either a Beef-Steak Pudding, or Roly-Poly, &c. 

1. \Ve take fii'c ounces of beef suet, and put it on a 
board. 

2. \Ve take a knife, and cut away all the skin, and chop 
up the suet as finely as possible. 

3. \Yc put half a pound of flour into a basin, and add to 
it the chopped suet and a teaspoon/id of salt* 

4. \Ye rub the suet well into \\\c flour with our hands. 

5. We then add, by degrees, enough cold water to make 
it into a smooth paste. We should mix it well. 

6. We take the paste out of the basin, and put it on a 
board. 

7. We take a rolling-pin and flour it. We also sprinkle 
flour on the board, to prevent the paste from sticking. 



Lessons on Making- Pastry. --Suet Crust. 253 

8. We roll out the paste once, to the thickness of rather 
more than one-eighth of an inch. 

N.B. Now the paste is ready for use, and if it is required for beef-steak 
pudding 

9. We take a quart pudding basin, and butter it well 
inside. 

10. We line the basin smoothly inside with paste. 

11. We take a knife, flour it, and cut away the paste 
that is above the edge of the basin. 

12. We fold this paste together, and roll it out to a 
round, the size of the top of the basin, one-eighth of an 
inch in thickness. 

13. We take two pounds of rump or beef-steak, put it on 
a board, and cut it into thin slices. 

14. We flour the slices well (using about a tablespoonful 
of flour), and season them with plenty of pepper and salt. 

15. We take one dozen oysters, and the liquor that is with 
them, and put them into a saucepan. 

16. We put the saucepan on the fire, and just bring 
them to the boil. 

N.B. This is to blanch the oysters. 

17. We take the saucepan off the fire, and strain the 
oyster liquor into a basin. 

18. We take the oysters and lay them on a plate. 

19. We cut off the beards and all the hard parts of the 
oysters, leaving only the soft part. 

20. We roll up the slices of beef-steak, and fill the basin 
with the meat and the oysters. 

N.B. If oysters be disliked, kidneys might be used instead, or the pudding 
might be flavoured with shallot, parsley, and mushrooms, according to 
taste. 

21. We now pour into the basin the liquor from the 
oysters, and one gill of stock (see Lesson on " Stock "). 

22. We wet the paste round the edge of the basin with 
cold water, and cover over the top of the basin with the 
round of paste. 



254 National Training School for Cookery. 

23. We must join the paste together at the edge of the 
basin, pressing it down with our thumb. 

24. \Ye take a pudding cloth, flour it, .and lay it over 
the top of the basin, tying it on tightly with a piece of 
twine. 

25. We take a large saucepan of ivarm water, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

26. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the 
pudding, and let it boil for three hours. 

27. For serving, we take off the cloth and turn the 
pudding carefully out of the basin on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Pastry. Short Crust. 255 

PASTRY. 

LESSON No. 6. 

SHORT CRUST FOR APPLE TURNOVERS 
AND APPLE DUMPLINGS, &c. 

Average cost of " Apple Turnovers " (about three). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
f Ib. of flour 2 

J Ib. of clarified dripping or butter 2 

a teaspoonful of baking powder ^ 



3 apples 

3 teaspoonsful of moist sugar 



Time required, about half an hour. 

Now we will show you how to make Apple Turnovers. 

1. We take three apples, peel and quarter them, cut out 
the core, and cut them into thin slices. 

N.B. One apple is required for each turnover. 

N.B. If a fruit pie or apple dumplings are required, see below. 

2. We put three quarters of a pound of flour into a basin, 
and mix into it half a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

3. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping or 
butter, and rub it well into ft\z flour with our hands. 

4. We add enough cold water to moisten it, and mix it 
into a stitt. paste. 

5. We take a board, flour it, and turn the paste out on to it. 

6. We flour a rolling pin, and roll out \he paste to about 
a quarter of an inch in thickness. 

7. We cut the paste into rounds ; each round should be 
about the size of a small plate. 

8. We lay the apple on one half of the round of paste y 
and sprinkle over it one teaspoonful of moist sugar. 



256 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. \Ve wet the edges of the paste, fold the paste over the 
tipple, pressing the edges together with our thumb. 

N.R. We must be careful to join the /./.</( together on all sides, or the 
juice of the apple will run out whilst it is cooking. 

10. \Ve grease a tin with a little dripping, and place the 
tii mows on it. 

11. We put the tin into the oven (the Jicat of it should 
rise to 22O C ) to bake for a quarter of an Jiour. 

12. For serving we place the turnovers on a hot dish. 

F< >r Baked Apple Dumplings. 

1. We divide the paste into three portions. 

2. We take three apples, peel them, and cut out the core 
from the centre. 

X.I'. We must not cut the apple* in pieces. 

3. We fill the centre of the apples with moist sugar. 

4. We press each apple int the centre of each portion of 
paste, and gradually work the paste over the apple, until the 
apple is entirely covered in. 

N.I'. Wr must ] very careful to join the /,/c/V together as neatly as pos- 
sible, so as not to show the join ; and then- nn-a be no cracks in the 

5. We grease a //;/, as described above, place the 
dumplings on it, and put it in the oven (the Jicat should 
rise to 2JO ) to bake for a quarter of an hour. 

6. For serving we take the dumplings off the tin, and 
put them on a hot dish. 

1. If the paste is for a Fruit Pie, we roll it out to the 
shape of the pic dish, only a little larger, and to the thick- 
ness of about a quarter of an inch. 

2. We arrange the fruit in the pic dish, heaped up in the 
centre. 

3. We sprinkle a tablespoonful of moist sugar over the 
fruit, or more or less according to the fruit used. 

4. We take a paste brush and wet the edge of the dish 
with uatcr, or a little ic/iite of egg. 



Lessons on Making Pastry. Short Criist. 257 

5. We cut a strip of tJie paste the width of the edge of the 
pie dish, and place it round the edge of the dish. 

6. We take the paste brush again and wet the edge of the 
paste with water or white of egg. 

7. We take the remaining paste and lay it over the pie 
dish, pressing it down with our thumb all round the edge. 

8. We must be very careful not to break \.}\z paste. 

9. We take a knife and trim off all the rough edges of the 
paste round the edge of the dish. 

10. We take a knife, and with the back of the blade we 
make little notches in the edge of the paste, pressing the paste 
firmly with our thumb to keep it in its proper place. 

11. We take a skewer and make a little hole through the 
paste on either side of the tart, to let out the steam. 

12. We take the paste brush and wet the tart all over 
with luater. 

13. We sprinkle some pounded loaf sugar over the tart, 
this is to glaze it. 

14. We now put the tart into a hot oven (the heat of it 
should rise to 240) for half an hoiir, or three quarters of an 
hour, according to the size of the tart. We must watch it 
occasionally and turn it, to prevent its burning ; it should 
become a pale brown. 

N.B. If a better crust is required for apple turnovers, &c., see "Pastry," 
Lesson No. 2. 

Now it is finished. 



258 National Training School for Cookery. 

PASTRY. 

LESSON No. 7. 

FLAKY CRUST FOR PIES AND TARTS. 

Average cost of " Flaky Crust " (to cover a four 

pint pie or tart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1 lb. of flour 2} 

| lb. of butter 8 

2 eggs 2 

i teaspoonful of baking powder o{ 



i o.V 



Time required (fir making the pastry], about a tjuarter of an hour. 



Now \ve will show you how to make Flaky Crust for pies 
or tarts. 

1. We put one pound of flour into a basin, and mix into it 
a teaspoonful of baking powder. 

2. We break two eggs, put the whites on a plate (the yolks 
we put aside in a cup), and whip them to a stiff froth with 
a knife. 



3. We add the whipped whites of tJie eggs to the _/?<?//;', and 
mix it into a stiff/><7.$7V with water (about one gill). 

4. \\ J Q flour a board, and turn \.\\z paste out on it. 

5. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to 
a thin sheet. 

6. We divide the hvlj "-pound of butter into three portions. 

7. We take one portion of the butter and spread it all 
over the paste with a knife. 

8. We sprinkle a little flour over the butter and fold the 
paste into three. 

9. We flour the rolling pin and roll out the paste, and 
spread another portion of the butter over it. 



Lessons on Making Pastry. Flaky Crust. 259 

10. We fold the paste as before, roll it out, and add the 
remainder of the butter. 

11. We then fold the paste again, and roll it out to the 
size and thickness required either for a fruit pie or an open 
tart. 

N.B. This crust should be baked in a quick oven (the heat should rise to 
240). 

N.B. The top of & fruit pie should be brushed over with water, and then 
sprinkled with founded white sugar. 

N.B. For an open tart we take a tin (the size required) and grease it with 
clarified dripping or butter. We should roll out the paste to a thin 
sheet about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and rather larger than the 
size of the tin. We place \he paste in the greased tin, pressing it into the 
shape of the tin with our thumb. We should place a dummy or a 
piece of crust of bread in the centre of the paste to prevent the paste 
from rising while baking. We put the tin in the oven to bake for 
twenty minutes. The Jam should be put into the tart after it is baked. 

Now it is finished. 



R 2 



260 National Training School for Cookery. 

* 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. i. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Cabinet Pudding" (about one pin" 

and a half}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d . 

i doz. cherries or raisins and two or three \ , 

pieces of angelica I 

i doz. finger biscuits and \ a doz. r.uafias . . 07 
i oz. of loaf sugar and 15 drops of essence ) , 

of Vanilla J 

4 eggs o 4 

i pint of milk o 2! 

i 3* 
Time required, about one hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Cabinet Pudding. 

1. We take a pint and a naif mould, and butter it inside 
with our fingers. 

2. We take a dozen raisins, or dried c/ierrics, and two 
or three pieces of angelica, and ornament the bottom of the 
mould with them. 

3. We take one dozen stale sponge finger biscuits and 
break them in pieces. 

4. We partly fill the mould with pieces of cake and half a 
dozen ratafias. 

5. We take 4 yolks and 2 ivhites of eggs, and put them in 
a basin. 

6. We add to the eggs one ounce of white sugar, and whip 
them together lightly. 

7. We stir in by degrees one pint of milk. 

8. We flavour it by adding fifteen drops of essence of 
Vanilla. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. " Cabinet" 261 

9. We pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould. 

10. We place a piece of buttered paper over the top of the 
mould. 

11. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and 
stand it on the side of the fire. 

12. We stand the mould m the saucepan to steam for 
from three quarters of an hour to an hour. 

N.B. The wafer should only reach half-way up the mould, or it would boil 
over and spoil \tepudding. 

13. For serving, we turn the pudding carefully out of the 
mould on to a hot dish. 

N.B. For a cold " Cabinet Pudding" see " Puddings," Lesson No. 27. 

Now it is finished. 



262 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 2. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Lemon Pudding? 
INGREDIENTS. 

S. (f. 

3 lemons o 6 

6 ozs. of sugar o i ' 

6 eggs o 6 

i gill of cream o 6 

i gill of milk o o\ 

3 ozs. of cake crumbs ( 

i inch of cinnamon stick j 

2 o 
Time required, about <>//<' hour. 



Now we will show y<>u how to make a Lemon 

1. \Ve take three lemons, wipe them elean in a cloth, and 
grate the rind of them on six lumps of sugar. 

2. \\'e take an inch of the stick of cinnamon, and put it in 
a mortar. 

3. \Ve pound the cinnamon well in the mortar with the 
sugar. 

4. \\'e put this into a basin. 

5. \Ve take tliree ounces of cake crumbs, and add to the 
above in the basin, and mix all well together. 

6. \Ye take the tJiree lemons, cut them in halves, and 
squeeze \\\^ juice of them into the basin through a strainer. 

7. We add the yolks of six eggs, and beat them in with 
the above. (Two of the whites of eggs we put on a plate, 
the others we put aside.) 

8. \Ve stir in well and smoothly one gill (quarter pint) of 
cream and one gill of milk with a wooden spoon. 

9. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth 
with a knife, and add them at the last moment to the above 
mixture, stirring it lightly. 



L essons on Making Puddings. " L emon. " 263 

10. We take a pie dish, and line the edge of it with puff 
paste (see "Pastry," Lesson No. i). 

11. We pour the mixture into the/zV dish. 

12. We put the pie dish in the oven (the heat of it should 
rise to 220) to bake till the mixture is set, and of a light 
brown colour ; it is then ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



264 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LF.SSON No. 3. 

APPLE CHARLOTTE. 

Average cost of " Apple C/utrlotte" 

INGREDIENTS. 

. </. 

2 Ibs. of apples o 6 

\ U). of loaf sugar o 2 

rind of one lemon o i 

Bread and clarified butter o 6\ 



3i 



Time rfijnircd, c// ft I ,/ half. 



Now we will .sln>w y<>u how to make an Apple Charlotte. 

1. We take /\v pounds of good cooking apples, and peel 
them thinl)- with a .sharp knife. 

2. We take a knife and cut them in S/I'IYS, and take out 
the iv;r. 

3. \Ve put these .\//V,Y/ apples into a steupan, with 
sufficient sugar to sweeten them, and one gill of water. 

4. \\\- take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel it 
very thinl}*. 

5. We take the rind of the lemon, and tie it together with 
a piece of twine, and put it in the stewpan with the apples. 

6. \Ye put the stewpan on the fire, and stir well with a 
wooden spoon until it boils, and the apples are reduced to 
about half the quantity. It will take from one hour to one 
Jionr and a Jialf. 

7. \Ve take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table, and we must take out the lemon 
peel. 

8. We take a plain round tin mould (about one pint and 
a half). 

9. We cut a slice of the crumb of bread, one-eighth of an 
inch in thickness, and round to the size of the mould. 



Lessons on Puddings. Apple Charlotte. 265 

10. We put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan to 
melt and clarify. 

11. We must cut the round of bread into quarters, dip 
them in the clarified butter, and place them at the bottom 
of the mould. 

12. We now cut slices of the crumb of bread, one-eighth of 
an inch in thickness, and the depth of the mould in length. 

13. We cut these slices into strips an inch wide. 

14. We dip these strips into the clarified butter, and place 
them round inside the mould, allowing them to lie half over 
each other. 

15. We must now pour the apples into the middle of the 
mould. 

16. We cover the apples with a round of bread dipped in 
the clarified butter. 

17. We put the mould into a good oven (the heat of the 
oven should be about 220) to bake for three-quarters of an 

hour. 

X.B. The bread should be quite brown and crisp. 

18. For serving, we turn it carefully out of the mould on 
to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



266 National 7 raining' School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS 

LESSON No. 4. 

PANCAKES. 

Average cost of " Pancakes " (about cigJit}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

3 ozs. of flour i 

2 eggs j 

\ a pint of milk i 

\ a saltspoon of salt i 

3 ozs. of lard ) 

The juice of a ' < >f a lemon i 

2 oxs. of moist suv;ar i 



Jt 

Time rci/ttireJ, ,;/v/// /;,<// /i- W////Y.V.-. 



Now \ve will show you huw we make Pancakes. 

* 

1. \Ve take //vv<- ounces of Jlour, and put it in a basin. 

2. \Ye add half a saltspi *>onful of salt, and mix it well into 



3. \\'e break tii'o eggs into the four, and add a dessert- 
spoonful of inilh\ and mix all well together with a \\-ooden 
spoon. 

4. We stir in gradually half a pint of milk, making the 
mixture very smooth. 

N.B. If possible it is better to let this mixture stand before frying it into 
pancakes. 

5. We put a frying-pan on the fire, and put into it a piece 
of lard the size of a nut, and let it get quite hot, but it must 
not burn. 

6. We then pour into the fryingpan tico large table- 
spoonsful of the batter, and let it run thinly all over the 
pan. 

7. When the pancake has become a light brown on one 
side, we should shake the pan, and toss the pancake over, to 
brown the other side the same. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Pancakes. 267 

8. We should stand a plate on the hot-plate, or in the 
front of the fire to heat. 

9. When the pancake is fried, we turn it on to this heated 
plate. 

10. We should squeeze about fifteen drops of lemon juice, 
and sprinkle a teaspoonful of moist sugar over it. 

11. We now roll up the pancake y and place it on the edge 
of the plate, so as to leave room for the remainder of the 
pancakes. 

N. B. We should fry all the pancakes in this manner, adding each time a 
piece of lard the size of a nut. 

12. For serving we arrange the pancakes on a hot dish, 
placing one on the top of the other. 

Now it is finished. 



26S National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 5. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Average cost of "Rice Pudding" (about one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1 1 oz. of Carolina rice o! 

Butter o} 

i tablespoonful of moist sugar o{ 

i pint of milk 2! 

Time required, ,i: h.<ur<. 



Now we will show you how to make a plain Rice 
Pudding. 

1. \Yc take a//;// disJi and butter it well inside. 

2. \Ye lake sue ounce and a half of Caroline rice, and wash 
it well in two or three waters. 

3. \Ye put the rice into the buttered dish, and sprinkle 
over it a tablespoonfnl of moist sugar. 

4. \Ye fill up the dish with new milk. 

N.B. Xntmfg may bo grated, or pounded cinnamon be sifted, over the top 
of \\iefui1ding before it is put in the (/. en. i 

5. YYc put the dish into a moderate oven (the heat 
should be about 22cv) to bake for two hours. 

6. We must watch it occasionally, and as the rice soaks 
up the ;;////*, more ;/////' should be added (carefully lifting 
up the skin and pouring the uiilk in at the side), so as to 
keep the dish always full. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings.- -Custard. 269 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 6. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Custard Pudding" (about one pint 

and a half}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
4 eggs .................................... 4 

i pint of milk .............................. 2 

Grated nutmeg .......................... ) , 

i tablespoonful of castor sugar ............ | 

Butter and flour for paste .................... 2 



Time required, about thirty-five minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Custard Pudding. 

1. We take a pint and a Jialf dish, butter it well inside, 
and line the edge with paste (see " Pastry," Lesson No. 2). 

2. We break four eggs, and put the yolks into a basin. 
(Two whites of eggs we put on a plate, the others we put 
aside.) 

3. We stir one pint of milk in with the eggs. 

4. We add a tablespoonful of castor sugar. 

5. We whip the whites of the tiuo eggs with a knife to a 
stiff froth, and add it to the basin, mixing it all lightly. 

6. We pour this custard into the buttered dish lined with 
paste. 

7. We grate half a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top. 

8. We put the dish into a moderate oven (the heat should 
rise to 220) to bake for half an hour. It is then ready for 



serving. 



Now it is finished. 



270 National Training School for Cookery. 



PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 7. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Plum Pudding? 

o 

INGREDIENTS. 



INGREDIENTS. 

* Ib. of beef suet 


s. 
o 


d. 


l.NdKi-.DiK.N i> tor tfranay . 

II V//t' A",7 //('I'. 

\. 


f 
d. 


V Ib of rnrrint^ 


o 




^ I'fTJTS . .... O 


Q 








i gill of cream (or milk \] o 


6 


', Ib. of mixed candied peel, i 





3 


i wineglassful of brandy or | 


6 


1 Ib of bread crumbs I 






i dt-s^L-rtspoonful of sugar .... o 


J 


\ Ib. of flour J 


o 


2 I 






I Ib. of moist sugar 


o 


2 


i 


3+ 


i lemon 


o 


2 




.^ 




o 


4 






i gill (\ pint i of milk 


o 


o) 








o 


fi~ 








o 


ij 






-} of a teaspoonful of salt .... ( 
'. a nutmeg j 


o 










2 


-^^ 







Time rtqiiinJ. c:r 



,ind a /;.;//". 



Now we will show you how to make a Plinu Pudding. 

1. \Ve put a saucepan of i^arm water on the fire to 
boil 

2. We take Jialf a pound of beef suet, put it on a board, 
cut away all the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as 
possible with a sharp knife. 

3. We take half a pound of currants % wash them clean in 
water, and rub them dry in a cloth. 

4. We take up the currants in handfuls, and drop them 
a few at a time, on to a plate, so as to find out if there are 
any stones with them. 

5. We take half a pound of sultana raisins, and pick 
over. 

* B. If large raisins are used, they should be stoned. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Plum. 271 

6. We place a wire sieve over a piece of paper. 

7. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the 
sieve. (There should be a quarter of a pound of bread 
crumbs^) 

8. We take a quarter of a pound of mixed peel, citron, 
lemon, and orange, and cut it up into small pieces. 

9. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a kitchen 
basin, and add to it the chopped suet, and half a teaspoonful 
of salt. 

10. We rub the suet well into \hzflour with our hands. 

N.B. We should be careful not to leave any lumps. 

11. We now add the bread crumbs, the currants and 
raisins, half a pound of moist sugar, and the pieces of 
candied peel, and mix all well together. 

12. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate 
the rind of it into the basin. 

13. We also grate half 'a nutmeg into the basin, and add 
two ounces of almonds (previously blanched and chopped 
up finely). 

14. We break four eggs into a basin, and add to them 
one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk and a wineglassfid of 
brandy. 

15. We stir this into the ingredients in the basin, mixing 
them all together. 

16. We take a strong pudding-cloth, sprinkle about a 
teaspoonful of flour over it, and lay it in a basin. 

17. We turn the mixture from the basin into the centre 
of the floured cloth. 

18. We tie up the pudding tightly in the cloth with a piece 
of string. 

N.B. If preferred, the pudding might be put into a buttered mould and a 
cloth tied over the top. 

19. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in \hzpudding, and let it boil for Jive hours. 



2 ~2 National Training School for Cookery. 

20. For serving, we take the pudding out of the cloth 
and turn it on to a hot dish. 



X.B. Brandy or li'inc sauce (see below) can be served with the pudding if 
liked, either poured over it or served separately in a sauce boat. 



For Brandy or Wine Sauce. 

1. We put three yolks of eggs into a small stewpan. 

2. We add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, one gill (a 
quarter of a pint) of creaui or ;/////, and a wineglassful of 
brandy or sherry, and whisk all well together with a whisk. 

3. We take a saucepan, fill it half full of hot water, and 
put it on the fire. 

4. We stand the stewpan in the saucepan of hot water. 
and whisk the sauce well for about SLV or eight minutes. 

X.B. \Ve must be careful that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. 

5. After that time we take the stewpan out of the 
saucepan. 

6. We pour the sauce over thc////w pudding (see above) 
or into a sauce-boat. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Vennoise. 273 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 8. 

VENNOISE PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Vennoise Pudding" (one pint and a 

half mould}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

5 oz. of crumb of bread o 2 

2 ozs. of candied peel o 2 

3 ozs. of castor sugar \ t 

i oz. of lump sugar j 

i lemon o 2 

4 eggs o 4 

a pint of milk o i^ 

i gill ( j pint) of cream o 6 

3 ozs. of Sultana raisins o i 

i wineglassful of sherry o 6 

Time required, about two hours. 



Now we will show you how to make a Vennoise 
Pudding. 

1. We take a piece of stale crumb of bread (about five 
ounces), put it upon a board, and cut it up in the shape of 
dice. 

2. We put the bread into a basin with three ounces of 
castor sugar and three ounces of sultana raisins. 

3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and grate 
the rind of it into the basin. 

4. We chop up two ounces of candied peel and put it into 
the basin. 

5. We pour in a wineglassful of skerry. 

6. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to 
boil. 

7. We put one ounce of lump sugar into a stewpan, and 
put it on the fire to brown. 

8. When it has become a dark brown liquid we add to 



274 National Training School for Cookery. 

it half a pint of milk, and stir it until the milk is sufficiently 
coloured. 

N.B. We must be careful that the sugar is quite dissolved, that there be 
no lumps left. 

9. We then stand the stewpan on a piece of paper on the 
table. 

10. We put the yolks of four eggs into a basin (the whites 
we should put aside, as they are not required for present 
use). 

11. We pour the coloured milk into the eggs, stirring well 
all the time. 

12. We stir the ;;////' and eggs into the ingredients in the 
basin. 

13. We also add one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cream. 

14. We take a///// and a half mould and butter it inside. 

15. We pour the pudding into the mould. 

16. We butter a piece of kitchen paper and lay it over 
the top of the mould. 

17. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
place in the mould to steam (the water should only reach 
halfway up the mould, or it will boil over and get into the 
pudding). 

18. We let the pudding steam for one hour and a half. 

19. For serving, we take the buttered paper off from the 
top of the mould, and turn the pudding out carefully on to 
a hot dish. 

N.B. German Sauce (see " Puddings," Lesson No. 10) can be served with 
the pudding if liked, either poured round it, or served separately in a 
sauceboat. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Amber. 275 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 9. 

AMBER PUDDING, 

Average cost of an "Amber Pudding" (one pint dish}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

6 apples o 4 

3 ozs. of moist sugar o i 

1 lemon o 2 

2 ozs. of butter o 3 

3 eggs o 3 

Puff paste o 4 

i 5 
Time required, about one hour and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make an Amber Pudding. 

1. We take six large apples, peel them, cut out the core, 
and cut them up into slices. 

2. We put the apples into a stewpan with three ounces of 
moist sugar, and two ounces of butter. 

3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and peel 
it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife. 

4. We cut the lemon in half and squeeze the juice through 
a strainer into the stewpan. 

5. We also add the lemon peel. 

6. We put the stewpan on the fire and let it stew till the 
apples are quite tender (it will take about three-quarters of 
an /tour). 

7. We place a hair sieve over a large basin. 

8. When the apples are sufficiently stewed, we pour them 
on to the sieve and rub them through into the basin with a 
wooden spoon. 

9. We stir the yolks of three eggs into the basin. 



s 2 



2 76 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. \Ve take a pie-dish (about one pint}, and line the edge 
\\\\\\ puff' paste (see " Pastry," Lesson No. l). 

N.B. If we have no puff paste, short paste (see "Pastry," Lesson Xo. 2) 
will do. 

11. We pour the mixture into the pie-dish, and put it in 
the oven (the heat should be 240) for twenty minutes. 

12. We whip the whites of t/ie eggs to a stiff froth. 

13. When the pudding is a light brown, we take it out 
spread the whipped whites of the eggs over the top, and sift 
about a dessertspoonful of castor sugar over it. 

14. We put the dish back in the oven till the icing is a 
light brown ; the pudding is then ready for serving. 

Nov; it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. --Brown Bread. 277 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 10. 

BROWN BREAD PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Broivn Bread Pudding and German 

Sauce" (one pint mould}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

A loaf of brown bread o 2 

i lemon o 2 

Half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla. . "J i 

3 ozs. of castor sugar ) 

i gill (5- pint) of milk o of 

i gill || pint) of cream o 6 

4 eggs o 4 



i 4* 

German Sauce. 

2 eggs o 2 

i wineglassful of sherry o 6 

i dessertspoonful of castor sugar o o 



Time required, about one hour and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Brown Bread 
Pudding. 

1. We take a stale brown loaf and cut off all the crust. 

2. We put a wire sieve over a plate and rub the crumb 

of bread through it. 

3. We put one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk into a 
stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. 

4. We put five ounces of the bread crumb into a basin, 
with three ounces of castor sugar. 

5. \Ve take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate 
the rind over the bread crumbs. 

6. We also add half a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla. 

7. We put a stewpan full of warm water on the fire to 
boil. 



278 National Training School for Cookery. 

8. When the milk boils we pour it over the crumbs. 

9. We put one gill (quarter of a pint) of cream into a 
basin, and whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 

10. We add the cream to the other ingredients, and also 
stir in one at a time the yolks of four eggs (the whites of two 
of the eggs we put on a plate, the others we put aside). 

11. We whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth 
with a knife, and then stir them lightly into the basin, 
mixing all the ingredients together. 

12. We take a pint mould said butter it well inside. 

13. We pour the mixture into the mould, butter a piece 
of kitchen paper, and place it over the top. 

14. When the water in the stewpan is quite boiling, we 
stand the mould in it to steam the pudding (the water 
should only reach half-way up the mould, or it will boil 
over and spoil the pudding}. 

15. We let it steam for one hour and a quarter. 

16. For serving we take off the buttered paper, and turn 
the pudding on to a hot dish. 



GERMAN SAUCE. 

1. We put the yolks of two eggs into a stewpan with a 
wineglassful of sJierry and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 

2. We put the stewpan on the fire and mill it with a 
whisk till it comes to a thick froth. 

N.B. We must be careful that the sauce does not boil, or it will curdle. 

3. We pour the sauce round the pudding. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings --Carrot. 279 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. u. 

CARROT PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Carrot Pudding" (one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

3 or 4 carrots o \\ 

3 ozs. of bread crumbs o i 

2 ozs. of butter o 2 

a gill of cream o 3 

2 eggs o 2 

| a gill of sherry c 3 

i oz. of castor sugar o i 

i tablespoonful of orange flower water .... o i| 

Puff paste o 4 

i 7 
Time required, about three quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Carrot Pudding. 

1. We take three or four carrots (according to their size), 
wash them and scrape them clean with a knife. 

2. We take a grater and grate all the red part of the 
carrots into a basin (there should be about a quarter of a 
pound). 

3. We stand a wire sieve over a plate. 

4. We take some crumb of bread and rub it through the 
sieve (there should be about three ounces of bread crumbs). 

5. We put the bread crumbs into the basin with the 
carroty we also add one ounce of castor sugar. 

6. We put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and put it 
on the fire to melt. 

7. When the butter is melted, we take the stewpan off 
the fire and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 

8. We then stir into it half a gill (one gill is a quarter of 
a pint) of sherry, half a gill of cream, and a tablespoonful of 
orange flower water. 



280 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We also add the yolks of two eggs (the whites we put 
on a plate). 

10. \Ye whip the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth 
with a knife, and then stir them lightly into the stewpan, 
mixing all the ingredients together. 

11. We then pour the contents of the stewpan into the 
basin with the carrot and bread crumbs, and mix them well 
together. 

12. We take a pie-dish (about one pint] and line the 
edge of it with puff paste (see " Pastry," Lesson No i). 

13. We pour the pudding into the pie-dish, and put it 
into the oven (the Iieat should be 240) to bake for Jialf an 
hour ; it is then ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Alexandra. 281 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 12. 

ALEXANDRA PUDDING. 

Average cost of an "Alexandra Pudding'' 1 (one pin f). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. a. 

10 eggs o 10 

2 ozs. of castor sugar o i 

i gill ($ pint) of milk o o| 

5 a pint of good cream i o 

i teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla o i 



2 0| 



Time required, about one hour and twenty minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make an Alexandra 
Pudding. 

1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 

2. We put \.\\e yolks of ten eggs into a basin (the whiles 
of five of 'the eggs we put in another basin, the others we 
put aside). 

3. We stir into thejW/fo of the eggs two ounces of castor 



sugar. 



4. We also add one gill (quarter of a pint) of milk and 
half a pint of good cream. 

5. We whip the whites of the five eggs slightly with a 
whisk or knife. 

6. We take a plain tin mould (about one pint) and butter 
it inside, we cover the bottom with three rounds of buttered 
paper. 

7. We add the whipped whites of the eggs, and a teaspoon- 
ful of essence of Vanilla to the mixture in the basin, and stir 
all lightly together. 

8. We pour the mixture through a strainer, into the 
mould, and tie over it a piece of stiff paper with a string, 



282 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. When the water in the saucepan boils we stand in 
the mould. (The water should only reach half way up the 
mould, or it will boil over and spoil \hepudding.) 

10. We let it simmer gently until the pudding is quite 
firm. (It will take about one hour and a quarter?) 

N.B. It must on no account boil fast. 

11. After that time we take the pudding out of the sauce- 
pan and stand it in ice. 

12. For serving, we take off the buttered paper and turn 
the pudding carefully out on to a dish, and ornament it 
with red currant jelly according to taste. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Blanc- Mange. 28; 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 13. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

Average cost of " Blanc-mange" (about one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

4 tablespoonsful of cornflour 2 

i quart of milk 4 

3 ozs. of loaf sugar * 

i inch of the stick of cinnamon or lemon peel J 

7 
Time required, about a quarter of an hour to make, and about three quarters of 



an hour to get cold. 



Now we will show you how to make a Blanc-mange. 

1. We put one quart of milk into a saucepan with three 
ounces of loaf sugar, and one incJi of the stick of cinnamon- or 
the peel of 'a quarter of a lemon for flavouring. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

3. We put four tablespoonsful of cornflour into a basin 
and mix it smoothly with a tablespoonful of cold milk. 

4. When the milk in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
stir in the cornflour quickly and let it boil for two minutes, 
stirring continually. 

N.B. We must be very careful not to let it get lumpy. 

5. We take a quart basin or a mould and rinse it out in 
cold water. 

6. We now take the piece of cinnamon or lemon peel 
out of the cornflour, and pour the cornflour into the basin, 
and stand it aside to cool. 

7. When the blanc-mange is quite cold, we turn it out of 
the basin on to a dish, and it is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



284 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 14. 

BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Boiled Batter Pudding" (about a pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

! Ib. of flour ) , 

Salt / 

2 eggs 2 

I pint of milk 2 \ 



rS 

54 



Time required, about ln<o hours and fifteen minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Boiled Batter 
Pudding. 

1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 

2. \Vc put Jialf a pound of flour into a basin and mix 
Jialf a saltspoonful of salt with it. 

3. We break tico eggs into the flour, and beat them well 
together. 

4. We now add by degrees unc pint of milk, stirring 
smoothly all the time, until the batter is well mixed. 

5. We let the batter stand for one hour. 

6. We take a pudding basin and grease it inside with 
butter. 

7. We stir the batter, and then pour it into the basin. 

8. We dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, wring it out 
and flour it well. 

9. We place the cloth over the batter and tie it on 
securely with a piece of string, just below the rim of the 
basin. We pin or tie the four corners of the cloth over 
the top. 

10. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling we 
put in t\\Q pudding, and let it boil for one hour. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Boiled Batter. 285 

11. For serving, we take the basin out of the saucepan, 
take off the cloth, and turn the pudding carefully out on a 
hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



286 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 15. 

CORNFLOUR PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Cornflour Pudding" (in a cup). 

INGREDIENTS. 

2 dessertspoonsful of cornflour i 

I pint of milk i 

6 lumps of sugar 

i egg i 



Jl 

Time required, <;/v/ </// hour. 



Now \ve will show you how to make a Cornflour Pudding 
(in a cup, for infants or invalids*. 

1. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire 
to boil. 

2. We put tico dessertspoonsful of cornflour into a sauce- 
pan. 

3. We pour in by degrees half a pint of milk, mixing it 
very smoothly. 

N.B. \Ve must be careful that it docs not get lumpy. 

4. We now add to it six lumps of sugar, put the sauce- 
pan on the fire and stir smoothly until it boils ; it will take 
about ten minutes. 

5. We then move the saucepan to the side of the fire. 

6. We break one egg into the saucepan, and beat it up 
until it is all well mixed. 

7. We take a cup (just large enough to hold \\\z pudding), 
and grease it inside with a piece of butter. 

8. We pour the mixture out of the saucepan into the 
cup. 

9. We take a small cloth, wring it out in boiling water, 



Lessons on Making Puddings, Cornflour. 287 

flour it well, and tie it over the top of the cup with a piece 
of string. 

N.B. We should tie the four corners of the cloth over the top of the cup. 

10. When the 'water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the cup and let it boil for twenty-five minutes. 

11. For serving, we take the cloth off the cup, and the 
pudding may be turned out or not, according to taste. 

Now it is finished. 



288 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 16. 

BATTER PUDDING. 

Average cost of a <l Batter Pudding " (in a cup). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i tablespoonful of flour \ 

i teacupful of milk ) , 

Salt J 

Time required, about ihirty-fe-ce minutes to nuke and thirty minutes to stand. 



Now we \\\\\ show you how to make Batter Pudding- 
(in a cup for infants or invalids). 

1. \Yc put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire 
to boil. 

2. We put a table spoonful of flour into a basin with a 
few grains of salt. 

3. We break cue egg into the basin and mix it well into 

\bejlour. 

4. We now add by degrees a teacupful of milk, stirring 
vigorously with a wooden spoon. 

5. We let the batter stand for Jialf an Jiour. 

6. After that time we take a cup (just large enough to hold 
the batter] and grease it well inside with a piece of butter. 

7. We stir the batter, and then pour it into the cup. 

8. We take a small cloth, wring it out in boiling water, 
Jlonr it well, and tie it over the top of the cup, with a piece 

of string. 

N.B. \Ve tic the four corners of the cloth together over the top of the cup. 

9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the cup, and let it boil for half 'an hour. 

10. For serving, we take the cloth off the cup, and the 
pudding may be turned out or not, according to taste. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Cornflour * 289 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 17. 

CORNFLOUR PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Cornflour Pudding" (about one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4 tablespoonsful of cornflour i 

1 quart of milk 5 

3 tablespoonsful of pounded sugar i 

2 eggs 2 

i inch of the stick of cinnamon or a bay leaf I i 

Grated nutmeg j 

IE* 

Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Pudding. 

1. We put four tablespoons/id of cornflour into a basin, 
and mix it quite smooth with a tablespoon/id of cold milk. 

2. We put the remainder of the quart of milk into a 
saucepan with three tablespoonful of pounded S2igar and one 
incJi of the stick of cinnamon or a bay-leaf. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

4. When the milk boils we pour it on to the mixture, 
stirring it smoothly all the time. 

5. We break two eggs into the cornflour, and beat it up 
lightly. 

6. We take a quart pie-dish and grease it inside with 
butter. 

7. We pour the mixture into the pie-dish, and grate half 
a teaspoonful of nutmeg over the top. 

8. We put the dish into the oven (the heat should be 
220) to bake for half an hour. 

9. It will then be ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



2 go National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 18. 

RICE PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Rice Pudding' (about one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ Ib. of rice i| 

1 quart of milk 5 

^S 2 

2 oz. of moist sugar o* 

2 oz. of suet i 

Grated nutmeg o} 



10 



Time required, from forty minutes to an hour. 



Xow we will show you how to make a Rice Pudding. 

1. We wash /in If (7 pound of rice in two or three waters, 
and then put it into a saucepan of cold icater, and put it on 
the fire till it boils and swells. 

2. We break ti^'o eggs into a basin. 

3. We add to them Av<> ounces of moist sugar and one 
quart of milk, and stir them together. 

4. We put t:co ounces of suet on a board, cut away all 
the skin, and shred it as finely as possible. 

5. We take a quart dish, and grease it inside with clarified 
dripping or butter. 

6. We drain off the rice on a cullender as dry as possible, 
and lay it in the greased dish. 

7. We pour the mixture of milk and eggs over the rice, 
and sprinkle the shredded suet over the top. 

8. We take a grater, and grate half a teaspoonful oj 
nutmeg over the top. 

9. We put the dish into an oven (the heat should be 
220) to bake for horn forty minutes to an hour. 

10. After that time it is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Cur aids. 291 
PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 19. 

CURATE'S PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Curates Pudding " (about one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i Ib. of potatoes i 

3 eggs 3 

i pint of milk 25 

Sugar o| 



Time required, abo^lt one hour. 

Now we will show you how to make a Curates or Sivcct 
Potato Pudding. 

1. We take one pound of potatoes, wash them, and boil 
them as described (see "Vegetables," Lesson No. i). 



N.B. Any remains of cold boiled potatoes could be used instead of fresli 
ones. 

2. We rub these boiled potatoes through a cullender into 
a basin with a wooden spoon. 

3. We break three eggs into another basin, and stir into 
them one pint of milk. 

4. We stir the milk and eggs smoothly into the potatoes, 
and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. 

5. We take a quart pie disk, grease it inside, and pour 
the mixture into it. 

6. We put the pie dish in the oven (the heat should be 
220) to bake for half an hour ; it will then be ready for 



serving. 



Now it is finished. 



T 2 



292 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 20. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Bread Pudding " (one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i Ib. 'Of scraps of 'bread ....;;;; .............. i 

1 quart of milk ....;:.. ....... ... .......... 5 

2 eggs .................. . : . ............... 2 

2 tablespoonsful of moist sugar ......... * . . . . o 

4 oz. of raisins or currants .................. i 



10 
Time required, three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Bread Pudding. 

1. We put one pound of scraps of bread into a basin, with 
plenty of cold water to soak. 

N.B. Any scraps of bread, either crumb or crust, however stale, so long as 
they arc not mouldy or burnt, can be used for this pudding. 

2. We put one quart of milk into a saucepan, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

. * 

3. We put into the ;///// a piece of butter the size of a 
nut, to prevent it from burning. 

4. We take the bread out of the basin and squeeze out 
all the water. 

5. We empty the water out of the basin, and put back 
the bread. 

j 

6. When the inilk boils we pour it over the bread, and 
let the bread soak until it is soft. 

7. We break two eggs into a small basin, add to them 
two tablespoonsful of moist sugar, and beat them lightly 
together. 

8. We take four ounces of large raisins and stone them, 
or, if currants are preferred, we should wash them, dry them 
in a cloth, and pick them over to see there are no stones 
with them. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. -Bread Pudding. 293 

i 

9. We now beat the bread up with a fork as smooth as 
possible. 

10. We put in the raisins or currants, and the eggs and 
sugar, and mix them all well together. 

11. We take a pie disk or tin, holding two pints and a 
half, grease it well inside, and pour in the mixture. 

12. We put it in the oven (the 'heat should be 220) to 
bake for half an hour ; it will then be ready for serving. 

-Now -it 'is Finished. 



294 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 21. 

TREACLE PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Treacle Pudding" (one quart}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

i Ib. of flour 2\ 

\ Ib. of suet 2 

i teaspoonful of baking powder ) 

Salt oj 

i teaspoonful of ground ginger ; 

About a Ib. of treacle I 

About \ of a pint of milk oj 

i egg i 

7 
Time required, two hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Treacle Pudding. 

1. We put a large saucepan of warm water on the fire to 
boil. 

2. \Ye take a quarter of a pound of suet, put it on a board, 
cut away the skin, and chop up the suet as finely as possible. 

3. We put one pound of flour into a basin with a little 
salt, and one teaspoonful of baking powder. 

4. We add the chopped suet and one teaspoonful of ground 
ginger, and mix all well together with a spoon. 

5. We put a quarter of a pound of treacle into a basin 
with a quarter of a pint of milk and one egg> and mix them 
together. 

N.B. If liked, rather more treacle can be added. 

6. We stir this into the mixture in the basin, and add 
more milk if required to make the pudding moist. 

N.B. When the pudding is mixed it should be rather stiff. 

7. We take a quart basin, grease it well inside, and pour 
the mixture into it. 

N.B. We should be careful that the basin is full, for if not quite full the 
water will get into it and spoil the pudding. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Treacle. 295 

8. We sprinkle some flour over the top of the pudding, 
put a cloth over it, and tie it tightly down with a piece of 
string, just below the rim of the basin, and tie or pin the 
corners of the cloth together. 

9. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the pudding, and let it boil for two hours. 

10. For serving, we take the pudding out of the saucepan, 
take off the cloth, place a hot dish over the pudding, and 
turn it carefully out of the basin. 

Now it is finished. 



296 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 22. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Plum Pudding*' (three-quarters of 

a pound}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

5 oz. of bread crumbs ...................... i V 

7 oz. of flour .............................. o\ 

1 1!). of suet ................................ 2 

\ \\>. of raisins ............................. . t| 

\ Ib. of currants ............................ ij 

2 oz. of moist sugar ........................ oV 

2 oz. of candied ]>rel ........................ i 

i t' spoonful of baking powder .............. oj 



i gill (\ pint) of milk 



ii 



Time rc,]iiircJ, .' ./ half hours. 



Now we will show you how to make a Plum Pudding. 

1. We put a large saucepan of is arm isatcr on the fire to 
boil. 

2. We stand a grater on a piece of paper, and grate some 
bread crumbs ; there should be Jlrc ounces. 

3. We take a quarter of a pound of suet and put it on a 
board. 

4. We take a knife, cut away all the skin, and chop up 
the suet as finely as possible. 

6. We should sprinkle flour over the suet to prevent it 
sticking to the board or knife. 

6. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, wash them 
well in cold water, and rub them dry in a cloth. 

7. We take up the currants in handsful and drop them, a 
few at a time, on to a plate, so as to find out if there are 
any stones mixed with the currants. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Plum Pudding. 297 

8. We take a quarter of a pound of large raisins and 
stone them. 

9. We take two ounces of mixed candied peel, i.e., citron 
lemon, and orange, and cut them up into small pieces. 

N.B. If disliked, the candied peel may be omitted. 

10. We put seven ounces of flour into a basin, and add 
to it the chopped suet, quarter of a saltspoonful of salt, and a 
teaspoonfiil of baking poivder. 

11. We rub the suet well into theJZour with our hands. 

N.B. We should he careful not to leave any lumps. 

12. We nowjadd ..the, bread crumbs, the currants and 
raisins, two-minces of moist sugar, the pieces of candied 
peel, and mix all well with a wooden spoon. 

N. B. If preferred, treacle may be used instead of sugar. 

13. We break two eggs into a basin, add to them one gill 
(a quarter of a pint) of milk and beat them up. 

14. We now stir the milk and eggs into the pudding and 
mix all well together. 

: > 15. 'We take a cloth, wring it out of hot water, flour it, 
and lay it over a quart -basin. 

N.B. We should be careful that the cloth is strong and that there are no 
holes in it. 

16. 'We turn the mixture from the basin into the centre 
of the floured cloth. 

17: We hold up the four corners of the cloth and tie up 
the pudding tightly with a piece of string. 

18. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the pudding, and let it boil for two hours. 

N. B. The lid should be on the saucepan. 

19. For serving, we take ft\& pudding out of the cloth- and 
turn it on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



298 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 23. 

TAPIOCA AND APPLES. 

Average cost of " Steiced Tapioca and Apples? 

INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

2 tablespoonsful of Tapioca o 

6 apples 2 

4 cloves and the peel of half a lemon I 

2 tablespoonsful of sugar o$ 



Time required (after the tapioca has soaked twelve hours), abcut three- 
quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a stew of Tapioca 
and Apples. 

1. We put tico tablcspoonsfnl of tapioca into a basin with 
one pint of water t and let it soak for ticeli'e /tours. 

N.B. This should be done over-night. 

2. We take six apples, peel, quarter, and core them. 

3. We put m four clones (for flavouring). 

4. We take one lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth, and 
peel half of it very thinly with a sharp knife. 

N.B. We must be careful not to cut any of the white, as it is very bitter. 

5. We put the soaked tapioca into a large saucepan, with 
the lemon peel, and livo tablespoonsful of pounded white 



sugar. 



6. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir it well until 
it boils. 

N.B. We should be careful not to let any stick to the bottom. 

7. We let it boil for ten minutes, until the tapioca has 
become clear. 

8. After that time we put the apples into the saucepan 
arranging them at the bottom, so that they are covered 
with the tapioca. 



Lessons on Puddings. Tapioca and Apples. 299 

9. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let 
the apples stew gently for from fifteen to thirty minutes y 
according to their size. 

10. We must not let them boil, or they will break. 

11. When they are stewed quite tender, we take them 
out of the saucepan and put them on a dish. 

12. We pour the tapioca over the apples. 

N.B. If liked, the tapioca sauce can be coloured by stirring in about half a 
teaspoonful of cochineal. 

Now it is finished. 



;oo National Training ScJwol for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 24. 

INVALID PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Invalid Pudding " (half a pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

3 tablespoonsful of chopped suet 2\ 

3 do. bread crumbs i 

do. flour ' o^ 

3 do. moist sugar o} 

3 do. milk o\ 

2 eggs 2 

'J'imc required, about one hour and thrcc-ijn<irL 



Now we will show you how to make an Invalid 
Pudding. 

1. \Yc take about a quarter of a pound of mutton suet, 
put it upon a board, and chop it up as finely as possible. 

2. When it is chopped there should be about three table- 
spoonsful. 

N.B. Mutton suet is much lighter of digestion than beef suet. 

3. We put a saucepan half full of warm water on the fire 
to boil. 

4. We take a piece of bread and a grater, and grate 
some bread crumbs on to a piece of paper. There should 
be about three tablespoonsful of bread crumbs. 

5. We put the bread crumbs and the chopped suet into a 
basin with three tablespoonsful of flour and three table- 
spoonsful of moist sugar. 

6. We mix all these well together. 

7. We now break in two eggs, and add three tablespoonsful 
of milk, and stir all well together with a spoon. 

8. We take a half-pint pudding basin and grease it well 
inside. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Invalid P lidding. 30-1 

9. We pour the mixture into the basin. 

10. We take a cloth, dip it in hot water, and flour it. 

11. We put this cloth over the top of the basin, and tie 
it on with a piece of string, just under the rim of the basin. 

12. We tie the four corners of the cloth together loosely 
over the top of the basin. 

13. We put this basin into the saucepan of boiling water, 
but we must be very careful that the water only reaches 
half way up the basin, or it will boil over and get into the 
pudding. 

14. We let the pudding steam for one hour and a half. 

N.B. We keep a kettle of water boiling to add to the water in the saucepan 
as it boils away. 

15. After that time we take the basin out of the sauce- 
pan, take off the cloth, and carefully turn the pudding out 
on to a warm dish. 

Now it is finished. 



302 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 25. 

SEMOLINA PUDDING. 

Average cost of " Semolina Pudding" 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

| pint milk ij 

i tablespoonful crushed semolina oj 

i egg . i 

I dessertspoonful moist sugar J ^ 

Butter and nutmeg j 

3\ 
Time required, about twenty-five minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Semolina Pudding. 

1. We put half a pint of milk and one tablespoonful of 
semolina into a saucepan. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir occasionally 
until it boils and swells, then we set it by the side of the 
fire. 

3. We break one egg into a basin and add to it a dessert- 
spoonful of moist sugar and beat them lightly together wit.i 
a fork. 

4. We take a three-quarters of a pint pie-dish and grease 
it inside with a piece of butter. 

5. When the semolina is sufficiently cool, we stir in lightly 
the sweetened egg. 

6. We pour this mixture into the pie-dish. 

7. We take a grater and a nutmeg and grate a quarter of 
a teaspoonful over the mixture. 

8. We put the dish into the oven (the Jieat should be 
22O C ) to bake for a quarter of an hour. 

N.B. Puddings can be made in the same way with sago, tapioca, or rice. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Puddings. Batter and Fruit. 303 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 26. 

BATTER AND FRUIT. 

Average cost of ''Batter and Fruit Pudding" (one pint 

and a half). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
5- lb. of flour ................................ of 

Salt .................................... i x 

pint milk .............................. J 

2 eggs .................................... 2 

\ lb. fruit .................................. of 

2 oz. butter . ............................... of 



Sugar 



required, about forty minutes. 



C 3 
04 



Now we will show you how to make a Batter Pudding 
'tfh. fruit in it. 

1. We take a quarter of a pound of Jiour and put it in a 
basin. 

2. We add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. 

3. We stir in gradually half a pint of milk. 

4. When it has become sufficiently liquid, we should beat 
it with a spoon instead of stirring it, as that will make it 
lighter. 

5. We break an egg into a cup, and then add it to the 
batter, beating it up lightly all the time, until it is thoroughly 
mixed. 

6. We then break a second egg into the cup and add it to 
the batter, mixing it thoroughly as before. 

N.B. Eggs should always be broken separately into a cup to see if they are 
good before cooking. 

The more the batter is beaten the lighter it becomes. 

7. We take a pint and a half pie-disk and grease it well 
inside with butter. 

8. We pour the batter into the pie-dish. 



304 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We take a quarter of a pound of damsons (or any 
other fruit), and wipe them with a cloth to be sure that 
they are quite clean. 

10. We sprinkle the/)'//// into the batter, and put two or 
tJircc bits of butter on the top to prevent its being dry. 

11. We put the pie-dish into the oven (the Jicat should be 
220) to bake for half an hour. 

12. After that time we take the pie-dish out of the oven 
and sprinkle some sugar over the top. 

N.B. Sugar should, of course, be eaten with the batter pudding. 

X.R. If sugar was added to the batter before it was baked it would make t 
heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Cold Cabinet. 305 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 27. 

COLD CABINET PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Cold Cabimt Pudding" (one pint mould]. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

6 sponge finger biscuits o 3 

2 oz. ratafias o 2 

^ pint of milk o ii 

^ oz. of best gelatine o i j 

The yolks of 4 eggs o 4 

2 oz. of dried cherries I L 

Two or three pieces of angelica j Ij 

5 a gill of cream o 3 

i teaspoonful of essence of vanilla . , ) 

i tablespoonful of castor sugar j 

Time required to make, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Cold Cabinet 
Pudding. 

1. We take a pint mould and ornament the bottom of it 
(according to taste) with the dried cherries, and pieces of 
angelica. 

2. We split the sponge-biscuits in half and line the inside 
of the tin with them and the ratafias in the mould. 

N.B. We must place the biscuits only round the sides of the tin (not over 
the bottom), arranging them alternately back and front next the tin. 

3. We break four eggs, put the yolks in .a basin (the 
'whites we put aside, as they are not required for present 
use), and beat them well with a wooden spoon. 

4. We stir half a pint of milk into the eggs, and pour 
the mixture into a jug. 

5. We take a saucepan, fill it half full of hot water, and 
put it on the fire to boil, when the water boils we move 

the saucepan to the side of the fire. 

u 



306 National Training School for Cookery. 

6. \Ye stand the jug- in the saucepan, and stir the custard 
very smoothly until it thickens and becomes the substance 
of cream, but it must not boil or it will curdle. 

7. We put half an ounce of gelatine in a small stewpan 
or gallipot, with a tablespoonful of water, and stand it near 
the fire to melt. 

8. When the custard is sufficiently thick, we take the 
jug out of the saucepan and stand it aside to cool. 

N. 15. We should place a piece of paper over the mouth of the jug to pre- 
vent the dust getting in. 

9. \Yc stir \\\z gelatine until it is quite melted. 

10. \Yc pour the melted gelatine through a strainer into 
the custard. 

11. \Ve also add half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a 
pint) of cream, a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and a table- 
spoonful of castor sugar. 

12. We pour it all on the cakes in the mould. 

13. \Ye stand the mould in a cold place to set ; in 
summer time it should be placed on ice. 

14. When the pndJi)ig is quite cold and set, we turn it 
out carefully on to a dish, and it is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Puddings. Suet Pudding. 307 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 28. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Suet Pudding" (about two pounds). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ lb. of suet 4 

i lb. of flour 2^ 

i teaspoonful of baking powder oj 

Time required, about one hour and three-quarters* 

Now we will show you how to make a Suet Pudding. 

1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 

2. We take half a pound of suet, put it on a board, cut 
away all the skin, and chop the suet up as finely as possible 
with a sharp knife. 

3. We put one pound of 'four into a basin, with one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. . 

4. We add the chopped suet and rub it well into \\\o. flour 
with our hands. 

N.B. We must be careful not to have any lumps. 

5. We now add enough cold water to mix it into a stiff 
paste. 

6. We take a strong pudding cloth, wring it out in 
boiling water, and sprinkle flour over it. 

7. We turn the paste out on to the cloth, hold up the 
ends of the cloth, and tie it tightly round the pudding with 
a piece of string, leaving room for the pudding to swell. 

8. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
put in the pudding, and let it boil gently for one hour and a 
half. 

N.B. We should keep a kettle of boiling water and fill up the saucepan as 
the water in it boils away. 

9. For serving, we take ft\& pudding out of the saucepan, 
take off the cloth, and turn it on to a hot dish. 

N.B. This pudding can be eaten with meat, or it can be eaten with sugar* 
jam, or treacle. 

Now it is finished. 

u 2 



308 National Training School for Cookery. 

PUDDINGS. 

LESSON No. 29. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Average cost of a " Yorkshire Pudding" (about one pint}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

8 07.. of flour ,..,,.,,., \\ 

I pint of milk 2 

1 of a teaspoonful of baking po\\ der ( t 

Salt '. J 

2 eggs 2 

5-1 
Time required, cue hour. 

. Now we will show you how to make a Yorkshire 
Pudding. 

1. We put eight ounces of flour into a basin and mix into 
it half of a teaspoonful of hiking fowler and half a salt- 
spoonful of salt. 

2. We break t:co eggs into \.\\cj!onr and stir it well. . 

3. \Yc now add by degrees a pint of milk, beating all the 
time with a wooden spoon to make the batter as smooth 
and as light as possible. 

4. We take a pudding tin (about a //;//), place it under 
the -meat that is roasting in front of the fire, to catch some 
dripping to grease the tin. 

6. We then pour the batter into the tin and let it cook 
under the meat fat half an hour, or put it in \\\voi'en to bake 
for ticenty minutes. 

6. We must watch it, and turn the tin, so that \\-\zpudding 
does not get burnt. 

N.D. It is better to make batter some time before it is required to be used, 
'so that it may rise. 

N.B. A commoner and more substantial Yorkshire pudding can be made in 
the same way as above, only with 6 oz. of flour, i egg, i pint of milk, 
and i tablcspoonful v/ chopped suet sprinkled over the batter when it is 
poured into the tin. 

7. When the pudding is sufficiently cooked, we turn it 
carefully out of the tin on to a hot dish, and it is then 
ready for serving with the roast meat. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Dumplings. Hard. 309 
DUMPLINGS. 

LESSON No. i. 

HARD DUMPLINGS. 

Average cost of " Hard Dumplings" (about five) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
v Ib. of flour .............. ..... ..,...,../ j 

Salt .............. . ............. . ....... J 



Time required, about twenty-five mimitcs. 



Now we will show you how to make.' Hard Dumplings* 

1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to boil. 

2. We put half a pound of flou,r into a basin, and mix in 
it half a saltspovnful of salt. 

S. We now add enough cold water to make it into a firm 
dough. 

4. We flour our hands and divide the dough into pieces 
about the size of an egg, and roll each piece into a smooth 
ball, without a crack in it. 

5. When the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
drop in the dumplings and let them boil for tiventy minutes. 

N.B. They are best boiled with meat, either salt beef or pork. 

6. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, put 
them on a hot dish, and they are ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



310 National Training School for Cookery. 

DUMPLINGS. 

LESSON* No. 2. 

NORFOLK DUMPLINGS. 

Average cost of "Norfolk Dumplings" (about ten}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

c. 

i Ib. of patent flour ...................... ) 

............................. J 3 



Water 



Time required, about 



Now we will show you how to make Norfolk Dumplings. 

1. We put a saucepan of warm water on the fire to 
boil. 

2. \Ve put one pound of patent flour into a basin. 

3. \Ye add to it enough cold icater to make it into a 
smooth dough ; it must not be too stiff. 

4. We form this dough into round balls about the size of 
a large egg. 

X.B. This quantity will make about leu dumplings. 

6. \Vhen the water in the saucepan is quite boiling, we 
.put in the dumplings, and let them boil for twenty minutes. 

6. After that time we take them out of the saucepan, 
and they are then ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Wine Jelly. 311 

JELLIES. 

LESSON No. i. 

WINE JELLY. 

Average cost of " Wine Jelly from Calves Feet" (about 

one quart}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 calves' feet ............................ i 8 

2 lemons ................................ o 3 

2 eggs .................................. o 2 

2 oz. of loaf sugar .................... i 

i inch of the stick of cinnamon .......... > o o| 

4 cloves .............................. ) 

i wine-glass of sherry .................... o 6 

Half a wine-glass of brandy . ............. o 3 



required : the jelly stock should be made the day before required 
for use ; to finish making it, about an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make about one quart of 
Wine Jelly from Calves Feet. 

1. We take two calves feet and put them on a board. 

2. We chop each foot m four pieces with a chopper. 

3. We put these pieces in a basin of clean cold water and 
wash them well. 

4. We take them out of the basin and put them in a 
stew-pan with sufficient cold water to cover them. 

N.B. This is to blanch them. 

5. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 

6. When the water boils we take the stew-pan and 
stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 

7. We take the pieces of the feet out of the stew-pan with 
a fork and put them in a basin of cold water and wash them 

well. 

8. We empty the water out of the stew-pan. 

9. We wash the stew-pan well. 



312 . National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We take the pieces of t\\e feet out of the basin and 
put them in the stew-pan Vfifa five pints of cold water. 

X.B. This stock will be reduced _to about otic pint _and ii^/ialf, when it is 
sufficiently boiled. 

11. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 

12. We must watch it and skim it often with a skimming 
spoon. 

13. We must let it boil very gently {or fire hours. 

14. After that time we strain off the liquor through a 
hair sieve into a basin. 

15. We must put this basin in a cool place for some 
hours, until the stock is perfectly cold and is in a jelly. 

16. We now take this basin of jelly stock and skim oft" 
all the fat carefully with a spoon. 

17. We take a clean cloth and put it in hot water. 

18. We take this damp cloth and dab it over Qtejelfy 
sto:/c, so as to remove every particle of grease. 

19. We take a clean dry cloth and rub lightly over the 
jelly stock to dry it. 

20. We take two lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, 
and peel them very thinly with a sharp knife. 

N.B. We must be careful, in peeling the lemons, not to cut any of the 
white skin, as it would make \\\v jelly bitter. 

21. We put the lemon peel into a stew-pan. 

22. We squeeeze the juice of the two lemons through a 
strainer into the stew-pan. 

23. We take two eggs and put the yolks in one basin, 
and the whites in another. 

24. We whip the whites of the eggs slightly, but not 
very stiff. 

25. We put the whipped white of the egg into the stew- 
pan and the crushed egg shell. 

26. We put in r also two ounces of loaf sugar, one inch of 
the stick of cinnamon, and four cloves. 

27. We whip all these together with a whisk. 



Lessons on 'Making Jellies. Wine Jelly. 313 



28. We now add ft\& jelly stock. 

29. We put the stew-pan on the fire, and whisk well 
till it boils. 

30. We now put the lid on the stew-pan, and stand it 
by the side of the fire for twenty minutes to form a crust. 

31. We place the jelly bag stand in front of the fire, and 
hang the jelly bag in it, we must put a basin on the stand 
underneath fas jelly bag. 

N.B. We must be sure that the jelly bag is quite clean. 

32. We take a jug of boiling water, and pour it through 
the jelly bag. 

33. We must do this four or five times, always using 
boiling water until the bag is quite warm. 

34. We must look at the jelly in the stew-pan, and when 
the crust is formed, it is ready to be strained. 

N.B. We must be sure that there is no wafer left in the bag, before passing 
the/<?//x through, and the basin in the stand should be quite dry. 

N.B. The pouring of the jelly into the bag forces the water (the few drops 
that remain) first out. into the basin ; these first few drops should be 
thrown away and a clean basin put in its place immediately. 

35. We now take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the 
jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 

36. We repeat this two or three times, until the jelly 
runs through quite clear. 

X.B. We must be careful in pouring the jelly through the bag, that we do 
not disturb the sediment at the bottom of the bag, which will serve as a 
filter. 

37. We add a wineglassfulof sherry, s.nd/iatfa wineglassful 

of brandy, or any other wine or liqueur according to taste. 

38. We take a quart mould, scald it with boiling water, 
and then rinse it in cold water. 

39. We place the mould in ice. 

N.B. We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 

40. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the 
bottom of the mould. 

41. When this jelly has set slightly, we can garnish the 
mould with grapes, strawberries, &c., according to taste. 

42. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the 
mould, and let it stand in the ice t until it is firmly set. 



314 National Training School for Cookery. 

43. When the/r//r is required for use, we dip the mould 
into a basin of hot water for about a second. 

44. We shake the mould to loosen the_/r//r, place a dish 
over the top of the mould, and turn the jelly carefully out, 
so as not to break it. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Aspic Jelly. 315 

JELLIES. 

LESSON No. 2. 

ASPIC JELLY. 

Average cost of " Savoury or Aspic Jelly " (about one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

2 calves' feet i 8 

2 Ibs. of knuckle of veal , i 4 

Salt ' 

30 peppercorns 

2 blades of mace 

1 clove of garlic o i 

2 shallots 

i sprig of thyme 

Two or three sprigs of parsley 

i onion, stuck with four cloves 

1 leek o 3 

\ a head of celery o i ^ 

2 carrots ( 

i turnip j 

i sprig of tarragon 

1 sprig of chervil 

2 bay leaves o 6 

The rind of i lemon 

The juice of 3 lemons , 

The whites of 2 eggs o 2 

i Ib. of lean veal o 10 

1 gill of chablis or sherry o 6 

2 tablespoonsful of French vinegar o 2 



Time required (tlie jelly stock should be made the day before} to finish 
making it, if not decorated, about an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make one quart of Savoury 
or Aspic Jelly. 

1. We take tivo calves' feet and put them on a board. 

2. We chop the/^ in eight pieces with a chopper. 

3. We put these pieces in a basin of clean cold water 
and wash them well. 

4. We take them out of the basin and put them in a 
stew-pan, with sufficient cold water to cover them. 

5. We put the stew-pan on the fire to boil. 

N.'B. This is to blanch them. 



316 National Training School for Cookery. 

6. When the water boils, we take the stew-pan off, and 
stand it on a piece of paper, on the table. 

7. \Ye take the pieces of feet out of the stew-pan with a 
fork, put them in a basin of cold water, and wash them well. 

8. \Ye empty the water out of the stew-pan. 

9. \Ye wash the stew-pan well. 

10. \Ye take the pieces of feet out of the basin, and put 
them back into the stew-pan. 

11. \Yc takc a /:i'0 pounds of knuckle of real, and put it on 
a board. 

12. \Yc take a sharp knife, and cut off the meat from the 
bone. 

13. \Yc put the meat and the bone into the stew-pan, 
with thcftrf. 

14. \Ye pour in free pints of water, put the stew-pan on 
the fire, and just bring it to the boil. 

15. \Ye must watch it, and skim it with a spoon. 

16. \Ye now add Jialf a teaspoojifnl of salt, tJiirty pepper- 
wnis, two li/adcs of mace, one clove of garlic, two shallots, one 
sprig of thyme, and two or tliree sprigs of parsley. 

17. \Ye take an onion, peel it, and stick four cloves in it. 

18. \Yc take one leek, and half a head of celery, and wash 
them in cold water. 

19. \Yc take two carrots, wash them, and scrape them 
clean. 

20. \Ye take a turnip, wash it and peel it. 

21. \Ye put all these vegetables into the stew-pan. 

22. \Ye also add one sprig of tarragon, one sprig of 
chervil, and two bay leaves. 

23. \Ye let all these boil gently for five hours. 

24. After that time, we strain off the liquor, through a 
hair sieve into a basin. 

25. \Ye must put this basin into a cool place, for some 
hours until the stock is perfectly cold, and in a jelly. 



Lessons on Making Jellies.- Aspic Jelly. 317 

26. We now take the basin of 'jelly, and skim off all the 
fat carefully with a spoon. 

27. We take a clean cloth and put it in hot water. 

28. We take this damp cloth, and dab it over the jelly 
stock, so as to remove every particle of grease. 

29. We take a clean dry cloth, and rub lightly over the 
jetty stock, to dry it. 

30. We take one lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and peel 
it very thinly, with a sharp knife. 

N.B. We must be careful in peeling the lemon not to cut any of the pith, 
as it would make \hQjelly bitter. 

31. We put the lemon peel into a stew-pan. 

32. We squeeze the juice of three lemons, through a 
strainer, into the stew-pan. 

33. We whip the ivhites of two eggs slightly, but not 
very stiff. 

34. We put the whipped whites of the eggs into the stew- 
pan also the egg shells. 

35. We take one pound of lean veal, put it on a board, 
and chop it up finely. 

36. We put this chopped veal in the stew-pan. 

37. We pour in one gill of cJiablis or sherry, and two 

tablespoons/id of French vinegar. 

38. We add salt and pepper to taste, and whip altogether 
with a whisk. 

39. We put in fat jetty stock. 

40; We put the stew-pan on the fire, and whisk well 
until it boils. 

41. We now take a large spoon and skim it carefully if 
necessary. 

42. We put the stew-pan by the side of the fire, and let 
it stand for half an hour to form a crust. 

43. We take a clean soup cloth, or a jelly bag, and fix it 
on the stand. 

44. We take a large basin, and place it below the cloth. 



3i 8 National Training School for Cookery. 

45. We take the stew-pan off the fire, and pour the con- 
tents into the cloth, and let it all pass into the basin. 

X.B. The chopped veal acts as a filter to the jelly. 

46. After the jelly has all passed through, we remove 
the basin, and put a clean one in its place. 

47. We take a soup ladle, and pour a ladle-ful of the/dY/;', 
at a time, over the meat in the cloth, and let it pass for the 
second time, very slowly, into the basin. 

N.B. We must be careful not to disturb the deposit of chopped veal, which 
settles at the bottom of the cloth. 

48. If a border mould of Aspic jelly be required, we take 
the mould, scald it with boiling water, and then rinse it in 
cold water. 

N.B. If the Aspic jelly is only required for garnishing cold meats, c., we 
stand the basin of jelly on ice, or in a cool place, until it be firmly set ; 
we can then cut the jelly into fancy shapes, or chop it up finely with a 
knife. 

49. We place the mould in ice. 

N.B. We must be careful that the mould stands quite straight and firm. 

50. We pour in enough of the jelly just to cover the 
bottom of the mould. 

51. When this jelly has slightly set, we can garnish the 
mould with fsli or rw/itMcs, c., according to taste, or 
with what it is to be served. 

52. We then pour the remainder of the jelly into the 
mould, and let it stand in the ice until it is firmly set. 

53. When the /<//!' is required for use, we dip the mould 
into a basin of hot water for about a second. 

54. We shake the mould to loosen ihcje/fy, and place a 
dish over the top of the mould, and turn thejelfy carefully 
out, so as not to break it. 

X.B. The centre of the mould can be filled with a salad of mixed vegetables. 
(See No. 13 in Entries, Lesson No. 5.) 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Iceland Moss. 319 

JELLIES. 

LESSON No. 3. 

ICELAND MOSS. 

Average cost of " Water Jelly or Milk Jelly made with 
Iceland Moss " (about one quart}. 



INGREDIENTS. 

For Water Jelly. \ For Milk Jelly. 

d. d. 

i oz. of Iceland Moss . . . . ) , i oz. of Iceland Moss i 

1 quart of water 

2 tablespoonsful of pounded 



loaf sugar. 



}i oz. of Iceland Moss i 

i quart of milk 4 

2 tablespoonsful of pounded 

loaf sugar i 



(To be eaten with wine or milk. ) 

Time required (after the Iceland Moss has soaked all night], for " Water Jelly," 
about one hour ; for " Milk Jelly," about two /tours. 



Now we will show you how to make Jelly with Iceland 
Moss. 

1. We wash one oz. of Iceland Moss well in cold water. 

2. We then put it in a basin of cold water, and let it soak 
all night. 

3. After that time we take it out of the water and 
squeeze it dry in a cloth. 

4. We then put it in a saucepan with one quart of cold 
ivater. 

5. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil for one 
hour ; we must stir it frequently. 

6. We then strain it through a sieve into a basin, and 
sweeten it with loaf sugar. 

7. It can be taken with either wine or milk according to 
taste. 



,20 National Training School for Cookery. 



For Milk Jelly : 

1. We boil the moss in the same quantity of milk instead 
of water (after it has been soaked) as above, only for two 
hours instead of one Jiour. 

2. We then strain it into a basin and s\yeeten with loaf 
sugar according to taste. 

3. When it is cold we turn the jelly out of the basin on 
to a dish and it is ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Milk Jelly. 321 

JELLIES. 

LESSON No. 4. 

MILK JELLY FROM COW-HEEL, 

AND THE MEAT SERVED WITH ONION SAUCE. 

Average cost of about one quart of "Milk Jelly" 
and the meat served with the onion sauce 



INGREDIENTS. 



Milk Jelly. 



i cow-heel ................ 6 

i quart of milk ............ 4 

2. inches of the stick of \ 



cnnamon 



............ 

Sugar .................. ! 



io.V 



Onion Sauce. 



d. 

3 or 4 onions i^ 

3 pint of milk 

\ an oz. of flour 

an oz. of butter . 



} * 



Time required, about four hours. 



Now \ve will show you how to make a Milk Jelly from 
Cow-heel. 

1. We buy a dressed cow-Iieel from a tripe shop. 

2. We put the cow-heel on a board, and cut it up into 
small pieces. 

3. We put these pieces into an earthen jar or a saucepan 
with one quart of milk and two inches of the stick of 
cinnamon. 

4. We put the lid on the top of the jar, put a piece of 
paper over the lid, and tie it tightly down. 

5. We put the jar into a very slow oven to stew for at 
least three hours. 

6. If there is no oven to the stove, we can stand the jar 
by the side of the fire to stew. 

N.B. It reduces less if stewed in the oven. 

7. When the stew is finished we take the jar out of the 
oven, take off the lid, and strain the milk into a basin, and 
sweeten it according to taste. 



322 National Training School for Cookery. 

8. We put the basin aside till the jelly is set ; it may be 
eaten hot or cold according to taste. 



For serving the Co^-Heel with Onion Sauce \ 

1. We take tJiree or four onions, peel them, and cut them 
in quarters. 

2. We put them into a saucepan with half a pint of 
milk. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil till the onions 
are quite tender ; it will take about one Jiour. 

4. After that time we strain oft" the milk into a basin, 
put the onions on a board, and chop them up small. 

5. We put Jialf an ounce of butter into the saucepan and 
put it on the fire to melt. 

6. When the butter is melted we add half an ounce of 
four, and mix them smoothly together with a wooden 

spoon. 

7. We pour the ;///// in gradually, stirring it till it bojls 
and thickens. 

8. We then add the onions, season with pepper and salt 
according to taste ; and move the saucepan to the side of 
the fire. 

9. We put the pieces of coi^-heel into the sauce, and let 
them warm through. 

10. For serving we put the pieces of coic-lieel on a hot 
dish, and pour over them the onion sauce. 

N'.B. The meat from the cow-heel might be served as a curry. The curr) 
should be made in the same way as described in "Cooked Meat," 
Lesson No. 4. 

N.B. The bones of the cow-heel should be put into the stock-pot. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Ox Foot Jelly. 3.33 

JELLIES. 

LESSON No. 5. 

JELLY AND STEW FROM OX FOOT, 

Average cost of about one quart of " Jelly and a stew" 

made from Ox Foot. 

INGREDIENTS. 

For Jelly. \ For Steiv, 

s. d. d. 

i ox foot i o i carrot, i turnip, i onion . . i| 

: ( Ib. of lump sugar . . . . o i i oz. of dripping o 

1 egg o i .V oz. of butter o| 

2 lemons o 2 Flour and seasoning o| 

Spices o Ov 



Jelly flavoured with porter would be is. 2\rf. 
Time required : 

ist day to stew the foot 7 hours. 

and day to finish jelly i ,, 

To make stew 15 ,, 



Total., 10 hours. 



Now we will show you IIOAV to make a jelly from C~ 
Foot. 

1. We take a scalded ox foot, put it in cold water, and 
wash it well. 

2. We take it out of the ivater, dry it in a cloth, and put 
it on a board. 

3. We cut the foot with a sharp knife across the first 
joint and down between the hoofs, and chop the long piece 
in half. 

4. We put these pieces into a saucepan with enough cold 
water to cover them. 

5. We put the saucepan on the fire and just bring it to 
the boil. 

x 2 



324 National Training School for Cookery. 

6. We then take the pieces out, and wash them 
thoroughly in a basin of cold water. 

7. We empty the water out of the saucepan, and wash it 
out well. 

8. We put the pieces of foot back in the saucepan, cover- 
ing them well with cold water (about two quarts will be 
enough for a moderate sized foot). 

9. We put the saucepan on the fire, and when it boils 
we should move it to the side of the fire and let it stew 
gently for six hours. 

10. We must watch it and skim it carefully with a spoon 
from time to time. 

11. After that time we strain off the stock into a basin, 
and put it aside to cool. 

N.B.- The foot \ve should put aside until required for \ 

12. When the stock is quite cold we take an iron spoon, 
dip it in hot water, and carefully skim off the/;?/. 

13. We take a clean cloth, dip it in hot water, and wipe- 
over the top of the/fY/r, so as to remove every particle of fat. 

N.B. For Porter Jelly. MV below. 

14. We take two lemons, wipe them with a cloth to be 
sure that they are quite clean, and peel them very thinly 
with a sharp knife. 

N.15. \\> mu^t be careful in peeling the lemons not to cut any of the white 
skin, as it would make the jelly bitter. 

15. We put the peel of one lemon into the stewpan or 
saucepan. 

16. We cut the lemons in halves, and squeeze the juice 
of the two into the saucepan. 

N.B. We must be careful to remove all the pips. 

17. W 7 e take one egg, put the yolk in one basin and the 
li'Jiitc in another. 

18. We whip up the white of 'the egg slightly. 

19. We put the whipped white of the egg and the egg 
shell into the saucepan. 

20. We put in a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, half 
an inch of the stick of cinnamon, four cloves, and about a 
quarter of an inch of saffron. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Ox-foot Jelly. 325 

21. We now add \hzjelly stock. 

22. We put the saucepan on the fire and stir the con- 
tents well with a whisk or iron spoon until it boils. 

23. We now put the lid on the saucepan, and stand it by 
the side of the fire for twenty minutes or half an hour. 

24. If there is no jelly bag we should take a clean cloth 
folded over cornerways, and sew it up one side, making it 
in the shape of a jelly bag. 

25. We place two chairs back to back in front of the 
fire. 

26. We take the sewn up cloth, hang it between the two 
chairs, by pinning it open to the top bar of each chair. 

27. We must place a basin underneath the bag. 

28. We must look at the jelly in the saucepan, and 
when there is a good crust formed over it is ready to be 
strained. 

29. We then take the saucepan off the fire and pour the 
jelly carefully into the bag to pass into the basin. 

30. We repeat this two or three times until \hzjelly runs 
through quite clear. 

N.B. A glass of wine may be added now if desired. 

31. We take a quart basin or a mould, scald it with hot 
ivater, and then rinse it out with cold. 

32. We pour the jelly into the basin and stand it aside 
to cool and set until it is required for use. 

N.B. If porter jelly is required we put the jelly-stock into a saucepan with 
a quarter of a. pound of lump sugar, half a teaspoonfnl of mixed spice, 
and half a pint of porter ; we put it on the fire and let it boil /or an hour 
and a half, stirring occasionally ; we then strain it in the same way as 
for the lemon jelly. 

Now it is finished. 



326 National Training School for Cookery. 



Now we will show you how to make a stew of the meat of 
the foot. 

1. We take one carrot, wash it, scrape it clean, and cut it 
in slices with a sharp knife. 

2. We take a small turnip and an onion, peel them, and 
cut them in slices. 

3. We put these vegetables into a saucepan with Jialf an 
ounce of clarified dripping. 

4. We put the saucepan on the fire and let the vegetables 
fry a light brown ; we must be careful they do not burn. 

5. We cut the meat oft' the bones of the foot, cut it up 
into nice pieces, and season them with pepper and salt 
according to taste. 

6. We put these pieces of meat into the saucepan with 
the vegetables. 

7. Wo then pour in one pint of cold water, just bring it to 
the boil, and remove the saucepan to the side of the fire to 
stew gently one hour or till the vegetables are tender. 

8. We then strain off the liquor and put the vegetables 
and meat on a dish. 

9. We put the dish near the fire to keep warm. 

10. We put half an ounce of butter into the saucepan and 
put it on the fire to melt. 

11. When the butter is melted we add half an ounce of 
flour, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. 

12. We stir in gradually the liquor, and stir it till it boils 
and thickens. 

13. We then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire. 

N.B. The sauce can be coloured with burnt sugar or a browned onion. 

14. We now place in the meat and the vegetables, and 
let them just warm through. 

15. We serve this stew on a hot dish with boiled potatoes (see 
Vegetables, Lesson No. i), or rice (see Rice, Lesson No. I). 

N.B. The bones of the foot should be put in the stock-pot. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Jellies. Apple Jelly. 327 

JELLIES. 

LESSON No. 6. 

APPLE JELLY. 

Average cost of " Apple Jelly " (about one and a half pint}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i pound of apples 4 

i lemon 2 

3 oz. of lump sugar i 

1 oz. of gelatine 3 

2 a teaspoonful of cochineal i 



ir 



Time required, about one hour, 

Now we will should you how to make Apple Jelly. 

1. We take one pound of apples, peel them with a sharp 
knife, cut them in half, take out the core, and then cut the 
apples in small pieces. 

2. We put the apples in a stewpan with three ounces of 
lump sugar and half a pint of water. 

3. We take a lemon, wipe it clean with a cloth. 

4. We take a grater and grate the rind of the lemon over 
the apples. 

N.B. We should be very careful only to grate ihtytllew feel of the lemon, 
as the white rind is very bitter. . 

5. We cut the lemon in half, and squeeze fat juice through 
a strainer on the apples. 

6. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil, and cook the 
apples quite tender. 

7. We must stir the apples occasionally to prevent it 
sticking to the bottom of the pan and burning. 

8. We put one ounce of gelatine in a gallipot or small 
saucepan with Jialf a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of 
cold water, and stand it by the side of the fire to dissolve. 



328 National Training School for Cookery. 



9. When the apples arc cooked to a pulp, we place a hair 
sieve over a basin and rub the apples through with a wooden 
spoon. 

10. We now stir the melted gelatine into the apple. 

N. B. We must be very careful that the gelatine is quite smoothly dissolved, 

there should be no lumps. 
N.H. If liked, part of the <///< might be coloured by stirring in half a te.i- 

spoonful of cvchineal. 

11. We take a pint and a half mould, rinse it out in 
boiling water and then in cold water. 

12. We can ornament the bottom of the mould with 
pistachio nuts cut in small pieces, or preserved cherries* 
according to taste. 

13. We now pour the apple in the mould, and if part of 
the apple is coloured we should fill the mould with alternate 
layers of coloured and plain apple. 

14. We stand the mould aside in a cool place to set the 



15. For serving we dip the mould in boiling water for ;i 
second and then turn out the apple jelly carefully on to a 
dish. 

N.B. Half a pint cf double cream whipped to a stiff froth should be served 
with the apple, jelly, either put round the edge of the dish or in the 
centre of the mould. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Creams. Vanilla Cream. 329 



CREAMS. 

LESSON No. i. 

VANILLA CREAM. 

Average cost of "Vanilla Cream" (about a pint and a 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

3 eggs o 3 

5 pint of milk o i 

an ounce of best gelatine o i| 

3 pint of double cream i 3 

1 tablespoonful of castor sugar o o 

2 teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla o 05 

i9i 
Time required for making, about three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Vanilla Cream. 

1. We take the yolks of three eggs and one white, put 
them into a basin, and beat them well with a wooden 
spoon. 

2. We stir in half a pint of milk. 

3. We pour this mixture into a jug. 

4. We take a saucepan half full of hot water, and put it 
on the fire to boil. 

5. When the water is quite boiling, we move the sauce- 
pan to the side of the fire. 

6. We stand the jug of custard in the saucepan of boiling 
water, and stir the mixture very smoothly until it thickens 
and becomes the substance of cream. 

N.B. We must stir it very carefully and watch it continually that it does 
not curdle. 

7. When the custard is sufficiently thick, we take the jug 
out of the water and stand it aside to cool. 

8. We put half 'an ounce of the best gelatine in a small 
stew-pan, with half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of 
cold water to soak and swell. 



330 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We then put the stcwpan on the fire, and stir the 
gelatine until it is quite melted. 

10. We pour this melted gelatine through a strainer and 
stir it into the custard. 

11. We pour half a pint of double cream into a basin, and 
whisk it to a stiff froth with the whisk. 

12. We add to it a tablespoonful of castor sugar and half 
a teaspoonfid of essence of Vanilla. 

N.B. If any other flavouring be preferred, it should be now added, instead 
of the essence of Vanilla. 

13. When the custard is sufficiently cooled, we stir it 
lightly into the whipped cream. 

14. We take a pint and a half mould, scald it with iiot 
icater, and then rinse it out with cold. 

16. We pour the cream into the mould, and stand it in 
ice, until required for use. 

16. For serving, we should dip the mould into boiling 
ivatcr for a second, shake it to loosen the cream, and then 
turn it out carefully on to a dish. 

N.B. This is an economical recipe for making cream, but if made entirely 
of cream, instead of cream and custard, it would of course be richer. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Creams. Strawberry Cream. 331 

CREAMS. 

LESSON No. 2. 

STRAWBERRY CREAM. 

Average cost of " Strawberry Cream" (about one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

i pint of fresh strawberries o 6 

2\ ozs. of castor sugar o oj 

5 an oz. of the best gelatine o i 

The juice of one lemon o i 

| pint of good cream i 3 

2 o 

Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Strawberry 
Cream. 

1. We take a pint of fresh strawberries, and put them on 
a board. 

2. We must pick them over, and put aside any that are 
not quite good. 

3. We must stalk them, and put them in a basin. 

4. We sprinkle over them half an ounce of white castor 
sugar, which will help to draw out the juice. 

5. We take a silk sieve and place it over a basin. 

N.B. A hair sieve could be used instead. 

6. We pass the fruit through the sieve with a wooden 
spoon. 

7. We put half 'an ounce of the best gelatine into a small 
stewpan, with Jtalf a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of 
cold water, to soak and to swell. 

8. We then put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the 
gelatine until it is quite melted. 

9. We add two ounces of castor sugar, and squeeze the 
juice of one lemon through a strainer into the stewpan. 



332 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We pour this mixture through a strainer, and stir it 
into the strawberries in the basin, and mix them well 
together. 

11. We pour Jialf a pint of good cream into a basin, and 
whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 

12. We now add this cream to the strawberries in the 
basin, and stir them lightly together. 

13. We take a pint mould, scald it with hot water, and 
then rinse it out with cold. 

14. We pour the strawberry cream into the mould, and 
stand it in ice, until required for use. 

15. For serving, we should dip the mould into boiling 
water for a second, shake it to loosen the cream, and then 
turn it out carefully on to a dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Creams. Charlotte Russe. 333 

CREAMS. 

LESSON No. 3. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Average cost of " Charlotte Russe " (about one pint}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

12 sponge finger biscuits o 6 

\ oz. of the best gelatine o i| 

i gill of milk o Q\ 

\ pint of double cream i 3 

i dessertspoonful of sifted sugar o og 

30 drops of essence of Vanilla o i 

2 o 

Time required for making, about half an hour. 

Now we will show you how to make a Charlotte Russe. 

1. We take a. pint tin, and line it inside with sponge finger 
biscuits. 

N.B. We must be careful to fit the biscuits close to each other, so that they 
form a wall of themselves. 

2. We take a knife and cut off the tops of the finger 
biscuits that stand above the tin. 

3. We put half an ounce of the best gelatine in a small 
stewpan, with one gill (a quarter of a pint) of cold milk, to 
soak and swell. 

4. We pour half a pint of double cream into a basin, and 
whip it to a stiff froth with a whisk. 

5. We add to it a dessertspoonful of sifted castor sugar, 
and thirty drops of essence of vanilla. 

6. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the gelatine 
until it is quite melted. 

7. We stir the melted gelatine into the cream, pouring it 
through a strainer. 

8. We pour this cream into the tin. 

N. B. We must be careful, in pouring in the cream, not to disarrange the 
finger biscuits. 

9. We stand this tin in ice t until it is required for use. 

10. For serving, we dip the tin into hot water far a second, 
shake the tin to loosen the cream, and turn it carefully on 
to a dish. 

N. B. A more economical Charlotte Russe might be made by using a quarter 
of a pint of custard to a quarter of a pint of cream (as in " Creams," 
Lesson No. i). 

Now it is finished. 



,34 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUFFLES. 

LESSON No. i. 

VANILLA SOUFFLE. 

Average cost of " Vanilla Souffle (about one and a half 
pint] and the sam~c to be served with it. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

4 eggs 4 

\\ oz. of butter at i r. 6J. Ib i 

A dessertspoonful of sugar 

i oz. of flour 

\ a teaspoonful of essence of Vanilla 

Salt 

i gill of milk o* 



Time required, about three-quartern of an hour. 



For Wine Saitee. 

i oz. of sugar o\ 

i tablespoonful of jam -: 

Wine glass of sherry 6 

' .i teaspoonful of lemon-juice i 



9i 



/ r Custard Sauce. 

d. 

i egg i 

Sugar and 6 drops of Vanilla o 
i gill of milk oj 



Time required, about ten minuti . 



Time required, about ten minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make a Steamed Vanilla 
Souffle Pudding. 

1. We must prepare the tin for the soujjU pudding. 

2. We take a pint and a half tin and butter it well inside, 
using our fingers for that purpose. 

3. We take a piece of paper and fold it so as to make a 
band round the tin, allowing about tico inches of paper to 
stand up above the tin. 

4. W T e butter the part of the paper above the tin with a 
knife. 

5. We put the paper round the outside of the tin and tic 
it on with string. 



Lessons on Making Soufflds. Vanilla Souffle*. 335 

6. We take a stewpan and just melt one ounce of butter 
in. it over the fire. 

7. We take the stewpan off the fire and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

8. We add one ounce of flour to the melted butter, and 
mix them both well together. 

9. We then add rather more than a dessertspoonful of 
pounded sugar. 

10. We add one gill of milk (a gill is a quarter of a pint). 

11. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir smoothly 
with a wooden spoon until it thickens. 

12. We then take the stewpan off the fire again. 

13. We add to the mixture the yolks of three eggs, one at 
a time, and beat all well together. 

14. We take the three whites and put them in a basin 
with one more white to make _/#?/;; adding half a saltspoonful 
of salt, and then whip the whites quite stiff. 

15. We add the whites to the above mixture and stir it 
lightly. 

16. We now add the flavouring Jialf a teaspoonful of 
Vanilla essence. 

N.B. If the essence is very strong, or the bottle newly opened, so much is 
not required. 

17. We mix all together and pour it into the buttered 
tin. 

18. We have ready a saucepan half filled with hot water, 
and put it on the fire to boil. 

19. When the water boils we stand the tin in it, but we 
must be careful that the water does not reach the paper 
round the tin, for it is only the steam which cooks fat pudding. 

20. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
let fae pudding steam from twenty to thirty minutes. 

21. We must watch it, not letting the water boil too 
fast, or the saucepan will get dry and fatpudding will burn. 



i National Training School for Cookery. 

22. When it is sufficiently steamed, we take the tin out 
of the saucepan of water. 

N.B. To test if the pudding is done, we should touch the centre of the 
pudding with our finger ; it should feel firm. 

23. We shake the tin and turn the Souffle Pudding out 
on a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it, which we must 
prepare while the soufflc"\s being steamed. 

N.B. If a bnked Vanilla Souffle Pudding is required, we put the tin in a 
quick oven (the heat should lx- 240 ) to bake for half an hour, instead of 
putting it in the boiling water. No sauce is then wanted. 



Now we will make the sauce for the Steamed Vanilla 
Souffle Pudding. 

For Wine Sauce. 

1. We take a small saucepan and put in it one ounce of 
loaf sugar and one gill (or quarter pint) of cold icater. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire, and stir the sugar 
and icatcr with a spoon until the sugar has quite melted, 
and it has become a smooth syrup reduced in quantity. 

3. We put into it a tablespoon fid of apricot jam. 

4. We stir it all together over the fire to melt the /<?;//. 

5. We add a wineglassful of skerry and half aUaspooiiful 

of lemon juice. We stir it all again. 

6. We take the stewpan off the fire and pour the sauce 
round the souffle puddir. 

N.B. \V<- must pour the sauce round the pudding very carefully, so as not 
to drop any of it on the Md>- of it. 



\Ve can make a Custard Sauce if preferred : 

1. We break a whole egg in a basin and whip it well. 

2. We add half a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. 

3. We add one gill (quarter pint) of milk, and six drvps 
of Vanilla essence. 

4. We pour all the mixture into a jug or gallipot. 

5. We get a large saucepan of Jtot water and put it on 
the fire. 



Lessons on Making Soufflds. Vanilla Souffl6. 337 

6. We stand the gallipot in a saucepan. 

N.B. The water must only come halfway up the gallipot. 

7. We stir the mixture in the gallipot with a wooden 
spoon. 

8. As soon as the mixture has thickened we take the 
gallipot out of the saucepan. 

8. We pour the custard round the Souffle Pudding. 

Now it is finished. 



338 National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUFFLES. 

LESSON No. 2. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

Average cost of " C/ieese Souffle'.' 

INGREDIENTS. 

i oz. of butter and i oz. of flour ij 

i teaspoonful of mignonette pepper o| 

Salt and pepper, and cayenne pepper o} 

i gill of milk o;i 

3 eggs 3 

3 oz. of parmesan cheese 4.4 



10 



Time required, about forty minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make a Cheese Souffle. 

1. We take a stewpan, and put into it one ounce of butter*. 

2. We add one teaspoonful of mignonette pepper. 

3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let the pepper fry 
in the butter (to extract the flavour of tint pepper) for tivo or 
three minutes. 

4. W r e take the stewpan off the fire, and strain the butter 
into a basin ; as the/V/yvr is only for flavouring, the grains 
must not be left in the butter. 

5. We wash out the stewpan to prevent any of the grains 



remaining. 



6. We pour the flavoured butter back in the stewpan. 

7. We add one ounce of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and 
half a teaspoonful of pepper, and cayenne pepper (about as 
much as would thinly cover half tJie top of a threepenny 
piece) according to taste ; and stir well together with a 
wooden spoon. 

8. We add one gill (or quarter of a pint) of milk. 

9. We put the stewpan on the fire, and stir the mixture 
smooth until it thickens. 



Lessons on Making Souffles. Cheese Souffle 1 . 339 

10. We take the stewpan off the fire, and stand it on a 
piece of paper on the table. 

11. We add one by one the yolks of two eggs, and beat 
them well together. 

12. We take three ounces of Parmesan cheese. 

13. We grate the cheese with a grater on to a plate or 
piece of paper. 

14. We add the three ounces of grated cheese to the above 
mixture in the stewpan, and mix it all well together. 

15. W T e whip the whites of three eggs with a little salt in 
a basin quite stiff. 

16. We add the whites to the above mixture, and stir it 
lightly. 

17. We take a plain fin pint mould, and prepare it in the 
same way as we did for the Vanilla Souffle Pudding. (See 
Souffles, Lesson No. i.) 

18. We pour the mixture into the buttered tin mould. 

N.B. This same mixture, if poured into Ramaquin papers and baked, will 
make cheese Ramaquins. 

19. We put the tin in the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) to bake from twenty minutes to half an hour. We 
must look at it once or twice to see it does not burn, but 
the door of the oven should not be opened too often while 
the sonfflc is inside, lest it should check the souffle from 
rising properly. 

N.B. To serve a baked souffle it should be kept in its tin, the buttered 
paper taken off, and a clean napkin folded round the tin. It can also 
be baked in a mould which slips inside a plated or silver dish sold for 
the purpose. This is the more elegant way of serving a souffle or fondu. 

Now it is finished. 



Y 2 



i4O National Training School for Cookery. 

SOUFFLES. 

LESSON No. 3. 

POTATO SOUFFLE. 

Average cost of " Potato Souffle? 
INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

4 potatoes i \ 

i oz. of butter i 

\ a gill of milk o 

4 eggs 4 

Seasoning o 

8 
Time rti/itirtii, titc-iit </// /.\>itr. 



Now we will show you how to make Potato Soujjle. 



1. We \3kz four good sized potatoes^ wash and scrub them 
with a scrubbing brush in a basin of cold icatcr. 

2. We take them out of the water, and dry them with a 
cloth. 

3. We put them in the oven (the heat should rise to 
230) to bake ; they will take from Jialf an Jionr to tJiree 
quarters of an hour, according to the heat of the oven, and 
the size of the potatoes. 

4. We take a steel fork or skewer, and stick it into the 
potatoes to see if they are done. They must be soft inside. 

N.B. This should be carefully done so as not to spoil the potato skins. 

5. When they are done we take them out and cut them 
(with a sharp knife) in half so that each half of the potato 
will stand because we shall want to use the skins to put 
\\\e potato into them again. 

6. We take a small spoon and scoup out carefully all the 
inside of the potatoes. We must take care not to make holes 
or spoil the skins in any way. 



Lessons on Making Souffles. Potato Sonfflt. 341 

7. We take a wire sieve and put it over a plate, and take 
the inside of the potatoes and rub it through with a wooden 
spoon. 

8. We put one ounce of butter and half a gill of milk in a 
stewpan, and put it on the fire to boil. 

9. We add salt &r\d pepper according to taste. 

10. We then add three ounces of the sifted potatoes, and 
stir it smoothly. 

11. We must now take the stewpan off the fire, and stand 
it on a piece of paper or wooden trivet, on the table. 

12. We take three eggs, and add, one by one, only the 
yolks, beating all well together with a wooden spoon. 

13. We take the three whites, and add another white to 
make/0//^, and put them in a basin ; we add a quarter of a 
saltspoonful of salt to them, and whip them to a stiff froth. 

14. We add the whites to the above mixture, and stir the 
whole lightly. 

15. We now stand the eight half-potato skins on a baking 
sheet. 

16. We pour the mixture carefully into each potato skin 
(they should be only half full). 

17. We put the sheet into the oven (the heat should rise 
to 240) for ten minutes, until they have risen well, and 
become a pale brown colour. 

18. We should fold a table napkin, and arrange them 
on it for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



342 National Training School for Cookery. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

Average cost of " Omelet Souffle." 
INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 eggs 2 

\ oz. of butter at is. 6ci. a Ib o^ 

Jam i 

Sugar and salt o\ 

i tcaspoonful of orange flower water i 



Time required, about ten minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make an Omelet Souffle 
of two eggs. 

1. We break two eggs ; we put the whites in one basin 
and thejv/X'j in another. 

2. We put one tcaspoonful of orange flower water, and one 
tablespoonful of castor sugar into a stewpan. 

3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil quickly 
for three minutes, stirring occasionally. 

4. We then pour it into a cup to cool ; add to it the yolks 
#f eggs, and beat them to a cream. 

6. We add a quarter of a salt spoonful of salt to the whites 
tf egg, and whip them to a stiff froth. 

6. We add the whites to the mixture in the basin, and 
mix them together very lightly. 

7. We put half an ounce of butter into a frying pan. 

8. We put the pan on the fire, and let the butter get quite 
hot, but not burn. 

9. \Vhen the butter is quite hot we must pour in the 
mixture. 

10. We may let it stay on a slow fire for two, but not 
more than three minutes. 

11. We must then take the pan off the fire and put it in 
the oven (the heat should rise to 240). 



Lesson on Making Omelet Souffle's. 343 

12. We let it stay for about three or four minutes in the 
oven. 

13. We take rather more than a dessertspoonful of jam. 

14. We put the jam into a stewpan on the fire, and stir 
it until it has melted. 

15. We take the pan out of the oven. 

16. We take a knife and pass it round the edge of the 
omelet souffle, to ease it from the pan. 

17. We give the pan a shake to loosen the omelet souffle'. 

18. We turn the omelet soufflt on to a hot dish. 

19. We spread the jam on the omelet souffle, and fold it 
over like a sandwich. 

20. We sprinkle about a teaspoonful of white castor sugar 
over it. 

v 

Now it is finished. 



344 National Training School for Cookery. 

SAVOURY OMELET. 

Average cost at" Savoury Omelet^ 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 eggs at id. each 2 

Salt, pepper, and parsley o : J 

i oz. butter i \ 



Time required, about four minute^. 

Now we will show you how to make a Savoury Omelet of 
tivo eggs. 

1. We break tn'o eggs into a basin. 

2. We add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt z.\\& pepper to 
taste. 

3. We take a sprig of parsley, wash it, dry it, and 
chop it up finely on a board (there should be about a 
tcaspoonful). 

4. We add the chopped parsley to the eggs. 

5. We beat the eggs lightly for tivo seconds with a 
fork. 

N.B. The omelet could be flavoured with chopped herbs or mushrooms, 
with bacon or kidiuyc-m in small pieces, or with grated cheese, according; 
to taste. 

6. We take one ounce of butter, and put it in an omelet or 
frying pan. 

7. We put the pan on the fire to melt the butter. 

N.B. The fire should be bright and clear. 

8. We wait till the butter is quite hot, taking care that it 
does not burn. 

9. We pour the mixture of the egg into the pan. 

10. We stir the mixture quickly with a wooden spoon. 

11. We must not let it burn or stick to the pan. We 
must shake the pan to prevent the omelet sticking or 
burning. 



Lesson on Making Savoury Omelets. 345 

12. We spread it over the bottom of the pan, and let it 
cook through. 

13. We must watch it very carefully. 

14. We take a knife and put it under the omelet, and fold 
the omelet over. 

15. When the omelet has become a pale brown, we turn 
it out of the pan on to a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



346 National Training School for Cookery. 

MACCARONI. 

LESSON No. I. 

Average cost of " Maccaroni icith Milk " and " Maccaroni 

icith Cheese" 

INGREDIENTS 

G. 

J Ib. of Maccaroni ) , 

Salt j 2 - 

i quart of skimmed milk 2 

2 oz. of cheese 2 

I oz. of butter i 

Salt and pcpixr, and cayenne pepper o{- 



Time rt.:uirt\t, about one /. .i.:rtcr>. 



Now \\'e will show you how to cook Maccaroni. 

1. We take half a pound of maccaroni^ wash it, and put it 

in a saucepan of cold icatcr, with one tablcspoonfnl of salt. 

2. \\'e put tlie saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, 
and let it boil gently for half an hour. 

3. After that time we pour the isatcr out of the sauce- 
pan. 

4. We put otic quart of skimmed milk into the saucepan. 

5. \Ye put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the 
boil, and then move it to the side of the fire and let it 
simmer gently for one hour. 

6. When the maccaroni is sufficiently cooked and quite 
tender, we turn it out on a hot dish, and it can be eaten 
with sugar or treacle. 

N.B. If liked, maccaroni and cheese am be made of it. 

7. For maccaroni and cheese, we take tico ounces of c/iecse, 
and grate it with a grater on to a piece of paper. 

8. We take a dish or a tin and grease it well inside with 
a piece of dripping or butter. 

9. When the maccaroni is sufficiently cooked (as above) 
\ve turn it out of the saucepan on to the greased dish. 



Lessons on Cooking Maccaroni. 347 

10. We sprinkle over it pepper and salt and two or three 
grains of cayenne pepper, according to taste ; or, about half a 
teaspoonful of mustard might be mixed with it. 

11. We stir part of the grated cJieese into the maccaroni 
and the remainder we sprinkle over the top. 

12. We take one ounce of butter, cut it in small pieces, 
and put these pieces of butter about on the top of the 
maccaroni. 

13. We put the dish in the oven (the heat should rise 
to 240), or in a Dutch oven before the fire for ten minutes; 
it should become a pale brown. 

14. It will then be ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



National Training Scliool for Cookery. 



STEWED MACCARONI. 

LESSON No. 2. 

Average cost of " Maccaroni Stewed in Stock' 9 

INGREDIENTS. 

a. 

\ lb. of maccaroni .......................... 2^ 

Salt and pepper .......................... ) 

i pint of stock .......................... ) 

IE 

Time required, about forty minutes. 



Now we will show you how to stew Maccaroni. 

1. \Ye take half a pound of maccaroni^ wash it, and put it 

in a saucepan with plenty of cold neater and a dessertspoonful 
of salt. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil r 
and let it boil gently for ten minutes. 

3. After that time we put the maccaroni into a cullender 
take it to the tap, and turn some cold water on it. 

4. \Ye now let the maccaroni drain in the cullender. 

5. We then turn it on a board, and cut it up in pieces, 

6. We put one pint of stock into a saucepan. 

7. We put the maccaroni into the stock, and season it 
with pepper and salt, according to taste. 

8. We put the saucepan on the fire, just bring it to the 
boil, and then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
let it simmer gently for twenty minutes. 

N.B. The lid should be on the saucepan. 

9. For serving, we turn the maccaroni out on a hot dish. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Making Cheese Straws. 349 



CHEESE STRAWS. 

Average cost of " Ingredients " for " CJieese Straws 

(about three dozen). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 oz. of butter 2^ 

2 oz. of flour OT 

2 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese 3 

i oz. of Cheddar cheese i| 

i egg i 

Salt and cayenne pepper o\ 

If* 
Time required, about twenty minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make Cheese Straws. 

1. We put two ounces of flour on a board, and mix into it 
.half a saltspoonful of salt } and a quarter of a saltspoonful of 
.cayenne pepper. 

2. We take two ounces of Parmesan cheese and one ounce of 
Cheddar or some strong cheese, and grate them on a grater. 

3. We rub the cheese and two ounces of butter into the 
flour. 

4. We now mix all the ingredients together with the yolk 
of an egg into a smooth stiff paste. 

5. We flour the board and the rolling pin, and roll out 
the paste into a strip one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and 

flve inches wide (the length the cheese straws are to be). 

6. We now take a sharp knife, dip it YS\ flour ^ and cut the 
paste into strips one-eighth of an inch wide, so that they will 
befive inches long and one-eighth of an inch in thickness. 

7. We take two round cutters, dip them m flour, and cut 
little rings of paste. 

8. We take a baking sheet, and grease it with butter. 

9. We put the cheese straws and the rings on the baking 
sheet, and put it into a hot oven (the heat should rise to 
240) for ten minutes. 



350 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We must look at the cheese straps occasionally, and 
see that they do not burn ; they should be of a pale brown 
colour when done. 

11. For serving, We take the cheese straps off the baking- 
sheet, and put them through the rings of paste like a bundle 
of sticks. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Pickling Cabbage. 351 



PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Average cost of " Pickled Cabbage? 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

A red cabbage o 3 

A gallon of vinegar . i 4 

Mace, cloves, allspice, whole pepper o \\ 

Salt and ginger o 03 



Time required, abo^lt three days. 



Now we will show you how to Pickle a Cabbage. 

1. We take a red cabbage, cut it in half, and cut out the stalk, 
and wash it well in salt and cold water. 

N . B. ^-white-heart cabbage will do to pickle, but green cabbages cannot be used. 

2. We put it on a board, and cut it in thin slices. 

3. We lay the slices in a large pan, sprinkle a handful of 
salt over each layer of slices, cover the top well with salt, 
and leave them for two days. 

N.B. We must turn the slices every morning and evening, and sprinkle a 
handful of salt over the layers each time we turn them. 

4. We then drain the slices on a hair sieve for one day. 

5. We put a gallon of 'vinegar ; two blades of 'mace ', twenty- 
four cloves, twenty -four allspice berries, and twenty-four 
peppercorns into a saucepan, with three pieces of ginger an 
inch long. 

6. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil up. 

7. We then turn the vinegar and spices out of the sauce- 
pan into a broad pan to cool. 

N.B. They must on no account be allowed to cool in the saucepan. 

8. We put the cabbage into a stone jar, and pour the 
vinegar and spices over it. 

9. The cabbage must be quite covered with vinegar, and 
as it soaks it up more vinegar must be poured over it. 

N.B. This quantity Of vinegar is sufficient for a large cabbage; a smaller 
one will take less. 

10. We tie the jar over with wash leather, brown paper, 
or a bladder. 

Now it is finished. 



National Training School for Cookery. 



PICKLE FOR MEAT. 

Average cost of " Pickle for Meat" (about one gallon}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i and \ Ib. of salt .......................... of 

6 oz. brown sugar .......................... i 

i oz. saltpetre .............................. oi 

i gallon water .............................. 

~\ 

Time required, about half an hour to make. 



Now we will show you how to make Pickle for Meat. 

1. We put one pound and a half of salt, sir ounces of 
brown sugar, one ounce of saltpetre, and one gallon of water 
into a large saucepan. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire to bring it to the 
boil, and then let it boil for _/?: minutes. We must keep it 
well skimmed. 

3. We then strain it into a tub or large basin. 

4. When the pickle is quite cold, meat can be put into it. 

N.B. The meat should be kept \\ell covered with \hzpicklc 9 days. 

N.B. This /?V.''/V will keep for 3 weeks in summer and 3 months in winter. 

N.I',. When the fickle is required again after it has once been used, it 
should I e boiled up again, skimmed, strained, and allowed to get cold 
before tl.e fresh meat is put into it. 

N.B. If used for p : g's head the pickle should be thrown away and not used 
again. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Cakes. Sultana Cake. 353 

CAKES. 

LESSON No. i. 

SULTANA CAKE. 

Average cost of a " Sultana Cake'' 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

\ Ib. of flour o I J 

Ib. of butter o 4 

Ib. of sugar o i 

5 Ib. of sultana raisins o x 

1 oz. of candied peel o i 

2 eggs o 2 

i teaspoonful of baking powder o o\ 

| a gill of milk o o| 

i lemon . 02 



x* 



Time required, about one hcur and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make a Sultana Cake. 

1. We put half a pound of flour into a basin. 

2. We rub a quarter of a pound of butter into \htflour 
with our hands. 

3. We now add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a 
teaspoonful of baking powder, and a quarter of a pound of 
sultana raisins. 

4. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate 
the rind of it into the basin. 

5. We cut up one ounce of candied peel into small pieces, 
and add it to the other ingredients. 

6. We put half a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of 
milk into a small basin, and add to it the yolks of two eggs. 
(The whites we put on a plate). 

7. We stir the milk and the eggs together, and then 
pour it into the other ingredients, and mix all together. 

8. We butter a cake tin. 



354 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We whip the whites of the eggs into a stiff froth with a 
knife, and stir it lightly into the mixture. 

10. We now pour it into the tin, and put it into the 
oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake for [one hour 
and a quarter. 

11. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and 
stand it on its side, or on a sieve to cool. 

N.B. This will prevent its getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Cakes. German Pound. 355 



CAKES. 

LESSON No. a. 

GERMAN POUND CAKE. 

Average cost of a " German Pound Cake. 
INGREDIENTS. 



\> 



d. 

10 oz. of flour , o 2 

8 oz. of fresh butter o 10 

8 oz. of castor sugar o 3 

2 oz. of candied peel o i 

i lemon o 2 

\ Ib. of sultana raisins o i| 

4 eggs o 4 

2 O 

MHM 

Time required, about tvjo hours and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make a German Pound 
Cake. 

1. We stand a wire sieve over a plate and rub through it 
ten ounces of flour. 

2. We put eight ounces of fresh butter into a basin, and 
work it to a cream with our hand. 

3. We add a tablespoonful of the sifted flour, a tablespoon- 
ful of castor sugar, and one egg, and mix them well into 
the butter. 

4. We continue to mix in by degrees the flour, sugar> 
and eggs until they are all used up. 

5. We take a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and grate 
the rind of it into the basin. 

6. We also add a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins* 
and two ounces of candied peel (cut up in small pieces). 

7. We stir all the ingredients together with a spoon. 

8. We line a cake tin with buttered foolscap paper, and 
put three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom of the 
tin. 

z 2 



356 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We pour the mixture into the tin, and put it into the 
oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake for two hours. 

10. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin, and 
stand it on its side, or on a sieve to cool. 

N.B. This will prevent it getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Cakes. Plain Cake. 357 

CAKES. 

LESSON No. 3. 

PLAIN CAKE. 

Average cost of this " Cake" (half a quartern). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

x Ib. of flour a* 

4 oz. of dripping 2 

.Baking po\vder, allspice, and salt of 

\ Ib. of currants i| 

\ pint of milk i ^ 

| Ib. of sugar i 



Now we will show you how to make a Plain Cake. 

1. We take one pound of flour and put it in a pan or large 
basin. 

2. We mix into the flour a teaspoonful of baking powder 
and half a saltspoonful of salt. 

3. We take four ounces of clarified dripping, rub it well 
into the flour with our fingers until there are no lumps 
remaining. 

4. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, put them in 
a cloth, and rub them clean. 

6. We add the currants to fat flour, also half a teaspoon- 
ful of ground allspice, and a quarter of a pound of brown 



sugar. 



6. We mix these ingredients together with a wooden 
spoon. 

7. We now pour in half a pint of milk, and mix it all 
well together. 

8. We take half a quartern tin and grease it inside with 
a piece of dripping. 

9. We pour this mixture into the tin. 



358 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise 
to 240) to bake for one hour. 

11. After that time we take the tin out of the oven. 

12. We turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its 
side to cool. 

N.B. This will prevent its getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Cakes. Seed Cake. 359 

CAKES. 

LESSON No. 4. 

SEED CAKE. 

Average cost of a " Seed Cake'' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

IO OZ. of flour i 

2 oz. of sugar o| 

i teaspoonful of baking powder \ , 

1 teaspoonful of carraway seeds J 3 

2 oz. of clarified dripping i 

\ a gill of milk o^ 

i egg ) 

Salt I 



\me required, one hour and a half. 

Now we will show you how to make a Seed Cake. 

1. We take ten ounces of flour and put in a basin. 

2. We mix into the flour, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder y and half a saltspoonful of salt. 

3. We take two ounces of clarified dripping and rub it 
well into \heflour with our hands, until there are no lumps 



remaining. 



4. We add two ounces of crusJied loaf sugar and one tea- 
spoonful of carraway seeds. 

5. We mix these well together with a wooden spoon. 

6. We break one egg into a cup and beat it up with half 
a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk. 

7. We pour this into the basin and mix all quickly 
together into a stiff paste, stiff enough to allow a spoon to 
stand up in it. 

8. We take a cake tin and grease it inside with a piece 
of dripping. 

9. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it at once in 
the oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake for one Jwur. 



360 National Training School for Cookery. 

10. To know when the cake is sufficiently baked, we run 
a clean knife into it, if it comes out perfectly bright and 
undimmed by steam, the cake is done. 

11. We turn the cake out of the tin and stand it on its- 
side to cool 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Cakes. Plum Cake. 361 



CAKES. 

LESSON No. 5. 

PLUM CAKE. 

Average cost of a " Plum Cake" (about three pounds) 

INGREDIENTS. 



x Ib. of flour 2^ 

Ib. of fruit (plums or currants) 2^ 

| Ib. of dripping 2 

\ Ib. of sugar I 

1 egg i 

a gill of milk o^ 

A teaspoonful of baking powder I 

Salt j 

2 oz. of candied peel i 



Time required, about one hour and a quarter. 



Now we will show you how to make a Plum Cake. 

1. We put one pound of flour into a basin, with a tea- 
spoonful of baking powder and Jialf a saltspoonful of salt. 

2. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping and 
rub it well into the flour with our hands until there are no 
lumps remaining. 

3. We take half a pound of plums or currants or a 
quarter of a pound of each and add them to the flour. 

N.B. If currants are used they should be well washed and dried in a cloth 
and picked over to see there are no stones in them. Large plums should 
be stoned before they are used. 

4. W T e take two oiutces of candied peel, cut it in small 
pieces and put it in the basin. We also add a quarter of a 
pound of sugar. 

N.B. lipeelis disliked it may be omitted. 

5. We break one egg into a basin and add to it half a gill 
(one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk, and beat them up. 

6. We stir this into the ingredients in the basin, mixing 
them all well together. 



362 National Training School for Cookery. 

7. We take a tin and grease it inside with dripping. 

8. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it into the 
oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake for about an 
/tour. 

9. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and 
stand it on its side slanting against a plate till it is cold. 

N.B. This will prevent it from getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Cakes. Cornflour Cake. 363 

CAKES. 



LESSON No. 6. 

CORNFLOUR CAKE. 

Average cost of a " Cornflour Cake " (about three-quarters 

of a pound). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

% Ib. of cornflour 2 

5 Ib. of loaf sugar i 

2 oz. of butter 2 

1 teaspoonful of baking powder o^ 

2 eggs 2 

Time required, about one hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Cornflour Cake. 

1. We put two ounces of butter into a basin, and beat it 
to a cream. 

2. We add to the butter a quarter of a pound of pounded 
loaf sugar, and mix it well. 

3. We break in two eggs and beat all well together. 

4. We now stir lightly into the mixture a quarter of a 
pound of cornflour and a teaspoonful of baking powder, and 
beat it well together for five minutes. 

6. We grease a cake tin inside with butter or dripping. 

6. We pour the mixture into the tin and put it imme- 
diately into the oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake 
for half an hour. 

7. After that time we turn the cake out of the tin and 
slant it against a plate until it is cold. (This will prevent 
its getting heavy.) 

N.B. If preferred, the mixture could be baked in small tins instead of one 
large one, in which case it would only take jl/teen minutes to bake. 

Now it is finished. 



364 National Training School for Cookery. 

CAKES. 

^LESSON NO. 7. 

DOUGH CAKE. 

Average cost of a " Dough Cake " (about one quartern}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. d. 

1 a quartern of dough o 4 

2 eggs o 2 

\ Ib. of sugar o i \ 

I Ib. of currants o 4 A 

i o 

Time required, about an hour and a hjlf. 



Now we will show you how to make a Dough Cake.. 

1. We put Jialf a quartern of dough (made as for bread, 
see " Bread," Lesson No. i) into a basin. 

2. \Ye take one pound of currants, wash them, dry them 
in a cloth, and pick them over to see there arc no stones 
mixed with them. 

3. \Ve add the currants and lialf a pound of moist sugar 
to the dough. 

X.B. If liked, half a tc,:$po<.<nful ^>f mi.vcd spice might be added. 

4. \Yc now break ti^o eggs into the basin, and beat all 
the ingredients well together. 

5. YYc take a quartern tin, and grease it well inside with 
dripping. 

6. We turn the mixture into the greased tin. 

7. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 
240 ) until the cake is sufficiently baked ; it will take about 

forty minutes. 

N.B. To test if the cake is done we should run a clean knife into it, and if 
it comes out clean the cake is sufficiently baked. 

8. We then turn the cake out of the tin, and place it on 
its side, leaning against a plate until it is cold. 

X.B. This will prevent it getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Making Shrewsbury Cakes. 365 
SHREWSBURY CAKES. 

Average cost of " Shrewsbury Cakes" (about one pound}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

\ lb. of butter 4 

\ lb. of castor sugar i\ 

6 oz. of flour i 

i teaspoonful of pounded cinnamon and mace . oj 

i egg i 

Jf_ 

Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Shrewsbury Cakes. 

1. We put a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of 
a pound of castor sugar into a basin, and beat them together 
till the mixture is of the same consistency as cream. 

N.B. If the butter is very hard it might he beaten over hot water. 

2. We add to the mixture one egg and about a teaspoon- 
ful of pounded cinnamon and mace (mixed together), and 
beat all well together. 

3. We now stir in smoothly by degrees six ounces of 
flour. 

N.B. We must be careful not to let it get lumpy. 

4. Vf& flour a board and turn faz paste out on it. 

5. We take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste as 
thin as possible. 

6. We dip a cutter or wine-glass in flour, and cut the 
paste into biscuits or cakes. 

7. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter y and 
put the cakes on it. 

8. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) to bake for about twenty minutes ; they should be a 
light brown when baked. 

9. The cakes are then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



366 National Training School for Cookery. 

ROCK CAKES. 

Average cost of " Rock Cakes " (about one pound and a half], 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ Ib. of flour \\ 

\ Ib. of currants i \ 

\ Ib. of sugar I 

2 oz. of candied peel I 

2 teaspoonsful of baking powder oi 

i tenspoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger o^ 

\ Ib. of clarified dripping 2 

i egg i 

About \ a gill of milk oj 

jjT 

Time required, half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Rock Cakes. 

1. We put half a pound of flour into a basin. 

2. We stir tico teaspoonsful of baking powder into the 
flour. 

3. We take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping, and 

rub it well into the flour with our hands until there are no 
lumps remaining. 

4. We take a quarter of a pound of currants, put them in 
a cloth, rub them clean, and pick them over to see that 
there are no stones with them. 

5. We add the currants to the flour, also one teaspoonful 
of ground ginger or grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound 
of crushed loaf sugar. 

6. We take tu'o ounces of candied peel, cut it in pieces, 
and add it to the other ingredients. 

7. We mix all these ingredients together with a wooden 
spoon. 

8. We break one egg into a cup, and beat it up with 
about tialf a gill (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk. 

9. We pour this into the basin, and mix all well together 
into a very stiK paste. 



Lesson on Making Rock Cakes. 367 

10. We take a tin, and grease it with dripping. 

11. We divide the paste into small portions with two 
forks, and lay them in rough heaps on the tin. 

12. We put them into the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) to bake for about fifteen minutes. 

13. After that time we take them out of the oven, and 
the cakes are then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



368 National Training School for Cookery. 



BUNS. 

Average cost of " Buns " (this quantity will make about 

twenty-seven). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ oz. of German yeast o| 

i \ Ib. of flour 3! 

3 gills of milk i f 

i oz. of butter i 

} Ib. of moist sugar i 

Ib. of sultana raisins or currants i 



Time repaired, about two hours and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make Buns. 

1. We put one gill and a half (one gill is a quarter of a 
pint) of milk into a saucepan and put it on the fire. 

2. We put half cin ounce, of German yeast into a basin. 

3. When the ;;//// is just warm, we pour it by degrees on 
to thejrcar/, mixing them well together with a spoon. 

4. We put one pound of four into a large basin and stir 
into it the milk and yeast, mixing it into a dough. 

5. We cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it on the 
fender, and let it rise for about one hour. 

6. We put one gill and a half of milk into a saucepan, 
with one ounce of buffer, and put it on the fire to warm. 

7. We put half a pound of flour \i\\a a basin and stir into 

it the milk and butter. 

8. When the dough is sufficiently risen, we turn it into 
this mixture, and work them well together. 

9. We now add a quarter of a pound of sultana raisins or 
currants and a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and mix 
all well together. 

N.B. If currants are used they should be well washed, dried in a cloth, and 
carefully picked over to see if there are any stones mixed with them. 

10. We cover the basin with a cloth and stand it near 
the fire to rise again for one hour. 



Lesson on Making Buns. 369 

11. After that time we take a tin and grease it with 
dripping or butter. 

N.B. If there is no tin, the shelf from the oven should be greased and used 
instead. 

12. We flour a paste board and turn the dough out on it. 

13. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the dough 
into pieces. 

14. We flour our hands, and form the dougJi into balls. 

N.B. This quantity of dough will make about twenty-seven ordinary sized 
buns. 

15. We put the buns on the tin. 

16. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) to bake the buns for about half an hour. 

17. When they are half done we take the tin out of the 
oven, brush the buns over with water, and sprinkle 'white 
sugar over them. 

18. We now put the tin back in the oven. 

19. When the buns are sufficiently baked, we take them 
off the tin and slant them against a plate until they are 
cold. 

N.B. This will prevent their getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



A A 



370 National Training School for Cookery. 

RICE BUNS. 

Average cost of " Rice Buns " (about eight or ten) 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ lb. of ground rice i ', 

\ lb. of sugar i " 

2 oz. of butter . 2 



2 eggs 



\ a teaspoonful of baking powder ............ oj 



Time nqitinJ, half an hsur. 



Now we will show you how to make Rice Buns. 

1. We put a quarter of a pound of ground rice into a 
basin, with half a teaspoonful of bdking powder. 

2. \Ve add a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar,. 
and two ounces of butter, and mix all together with a wooden 
spoon. 

3. \Ve break in tn'o eggs and beat all lightly together. 

N.B. We should be careful to see that the eggs are good before adding them 
to the mixture. 

4. We take some small tins or patty pans, and grease 
them well with a piece of dripping or butter. 

6. We fill these tins two-tJiirds full with the niixture. 

N.B. This quantity will make about eight or ten buns. 

N.B. If there are no small tins the mixture could be put into a cake tin, 
which should be previously greased inside. 

6. We put the tins into the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) to bake for fifteen minutes. 

7. After that time, we turn the buns out of the tins, and 
lean them against a plate until they are cold. 

N.B. This will prevent their getting heavy. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Making Ginger-Bread Nuts. 371 

GINGER-BREAD NUTS. 

Average cost of " Ginger-bread Nuts " (about twenty-four}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i lb. of flour a| 

\ lb. of treacle 2 

4 oz. of butter ......'....... 4 

\ an oz. of ground ginger o| 

Allspice | 

i teaspoonful of carbonate of soda > o| 

Salt ) 



required, about twenty-five minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make Ginger-bread Niits. 

1. We put one pound offloiir into a basin with about halj 
a saltspoonful of salt. 

2. We also add Jialf an ounce of ground ginger, one 
teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and allspice (about as much 
as will cover a threepenny piece). 

3. We put half a pound of treacle and four ounces of 
butter into a saucepan, and melt them together over the 
fire. 

4. We mix the ingredients together and then add the 
melted treacle and the four ounces of butter, and mix all 
well together into a firm paste. 

N.B. We should be very careful that all the ingredients are well mixed and 
that there are no lumps left. 

5. We flour a board and turn the paste out on to it. 

6. We should flour our hands and knead the paste. 

7. We now divide the paste into about twenty -four 
pieces. 

8. We roll each piece into a ball, like a walnut, and put 
them two inches apart on a greased tin. 

9. We put them in the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) iot fifteen minutes. 

10. After that time we turn the ginger-bread nuts off the 
tin and set them aside to cool. 

Now it is finished. 

A A 2 



372 National Training School for Cookery. 

.MILK BISCUITS. 

Average cost of " Milk Biscuits" (about two dozen}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

1 gill ( \ pint) of milk ofc 

I oz. of butter i 

Ib. of flour ij 

i teaspoonful of baking powder of 



Time required, about half an hour. 

Now we will show you how to make Milk Biscuits. 

1. \Ye put one gill (a quarter of a pint) of milk into 
a saucepan ; we add to it one ounce of butter, and put it on 
the fire to warm. 

2. We put half a pound of flour into a basin with a 
teaspoonful of baking powder* 

3. When the ;;//// is hot, we pour it into the four and 
stir it carefully into a smooth, stiff/rfj/r. 

4. \Ye flour a board and turn faz paste out on it. 

5. We take a rolling- pin, flour it, and roll the paste out 
into as thin a sheet as possible. 

6. We flour a docker or a tumbler and cut the paste out 
into rounds, about the size of the top of a teacup. 

7. We grease a tin with dripping or butter, and place the 

biscuits on it. 

i 

8. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise to 
240) to bake for twenty minutes. 

9. After that time we turn the biscuits off the tin and 
set them aside to cool. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Making Oatmeal Biscuits. 373 

OATMEAL BISCUITS. 

Average cost of " Oatmeal Biscuits " (about one pound}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

7 oz. of flour i 

3 oz. of oatmeal 

3 oz. of castor sugar 

3 oz. of lard or butter 3 

J of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda o^ 

i egg i 

J 
Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Oatmeal Biscuits. 

1. We put tJiree ounces of lard or butter into a saucepan, 
and put it on the fire to melt and warm. 

2. We put seven ounces of flour into a basin with three 
ounces of oatmeal, tliree ounces of castor sugar, and a quarter 
of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, and mix all toge- 
ther with a spoon. 

3. We now stir in the melted lard. 

4. We put about a tablespoonful of cold water into a tea 
cup ; we break one egg into the water and beat them 
slightly together. 

5. We add this to the mixture in the basin, and mix all 
well and smoothly together with a spoon. 

6. We flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 

7. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste 
as thin as possible. 

8. We flour a tumbler and cut the paste into biscuits 
according to taste. 

9. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter, and 
place the biscuits on it. 

10. We put the tin into the oven (the heat should rise 
to 240) to bake for tiventy minutes. 

Now it is finished. 



374 National Training School for Cookery. 

SCONES. 

Average cost of " Scones " (about eight}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i Ib. of flour 2} 

\ pint of milk o^ 

\ Ib. of butter 4 

i dessertspoonful of baking powder oj- 

7 
Time required, about f^rty minute*. 



Now we will show you how to make Scones. 

1. We put one pound of flour into a basin and mix into it 
a dessertspoonful of baking powder* 

2. We take a quarter of a pound of butter, and rub it well 
into t\\z flour with our hands. 

3. We turn it out on to a floured board. 

4. We flour a rolling pin and roll it out to make sure 
that the butter is well mixed in \\\z flour. 

6. We mix it into a smooth paste with rather less than a 
quarter of a pint of milk. 

N.B. The /><:.?/< must not be too moist. 

6. We flour the rolling pin and roll out the paste to a 
thin sheet, about one-third of an inch in thickness. 

7. We take a knife, dip it m flour, and cut \\\e paste into 
triangular pieces, each side about four inches long. 

8. We flour a tin, put the scones on it, and bake them 
directly in the oven (the heat should rise to 240) for thirty 
to forty m in u tes. 

9. When the scones are half done, we should brush them 
over with milk. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Making SIiort-Bread. 375 



SHORT-BREAD. 

Average cost of " Short-Bread!' 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

' Jib. of flour of 

2 oz. of butter 2 

i oz. of castor sugar o\ 



Time required, about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Short-Bread. 

1. We put tivo ounces of butter in a saucepan, and put it 
on the fire to melt and warm. 

2. We put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin with 
one ounce of castor (pounded lump) sugar, and the melted 
butter. 

3. We mix these ingredients well together. 

4. We flour a board and turn the jtote out on it. 

5. We flour our hands and knead \\\z paste well. 

6. We take a rolling pin, flour it, and roll out the paste 
to about one-third of an inch in thickness. 

7. We flour a knife and cut \hzpaste into oval shapes. 

8. We grease a baking tin with dripping or butter. 

9. We put the short-bread on the tin, and put it in the 
oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake till a pale brown. 

Now it is finished. 



376 National Training School for Cookery. 

MILK ROLLS. 

Average cost of "Milk Rolls" (about ticehe). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

I lb. of self-raising flour 3 

a oz. of butter 2 

Milk i 

6 

Time require!, af-ont half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Milk Rolls. 

1. We put one pound of self-raising flour into a basin and 
rub tico ounces of butter into it with our hands. 

2. We add sufficient milk to make it into a lithe firm 
dough. 

3. We sprinkle flour over a board, and turn the dough 
out on it. 

4. We take a knife, dip it m flour, and cut the doughjs&<y> 
twelve pieces. 

N.B. We should keep our hands floured to prevent the dough from sticking 
to them. 

5. We form each piece into a small roll. 

6. \\zflour a baking tin. 

7. We put these rolls on to the tin and put the tin in the 
oven (the heat should rise to 240 ) to bake for twenty 
minutes. 

8. The milk rolls will then be ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



On Making Yorkshire Tea Cakes. 377 
YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. 

Average cost of " Yorkshire Tea Cakes " (about two}.. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d* 

f of a Ib. of flour if 

1 1 gill of milk of 

i oz. of butter i 

I pcrcr T 

A C oo ...................................... J. 

i an oz. of German yeast o\ 

5 
Time required, about one hour and a half. 



Now we will show you how to make Yorkshire Tea: 
Cakes. 

1. We put one gill and a half (one gill is a quarter of a 
pint) of milk into a small saucepan and put it on the fire. 

2. We put half an ounce of German yeast into a basin,, 
and when the milk is just warm we pour it on to the yeast. 

3. We put tJiree-quarters of a po2ind of flour into a large 
basin, and rub into it one ounce of butter. 

4. We beat up one egg in a cup, and then add it to the 
flour. 

5. We now pour the yeast and milk through a strainer 
into the basin, and mix all well together with a wooden 
spoon. 

6. We flour a board and turn the dough out on it. 

7. We flour our hands and knead the dough for a minute 
or two. 

8. We take a knife, dip it in flour, and divide the dough 
into cakes. 

9. We take some cake tins (as many as are required), 
and grease them inside with dripping. 

10. We put the cakes into the tins. 

N.B. The tins should be only three- {uartcrs full, so as to allow for the 
cakes to rise. 



378 National Training School for Cookery. 

11. \Ye stand the tins near the fire, and allow the cakes 
to rise for one hour. 

12. After that time we put the tins into the oven (the 
heat should rise to 240) to bake for a quarter of an hour. 

13. We then turn the cakes out of the tins, and place 
them on a sieve, or on the seat of a cane chair to cool. 

X.B. This will prevent them from getting heavy, 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Making Bread. 379 



BREAD. 

LESSON No. i. 
Average cost of "Bread" (about a quartern}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

3^ Ibs. flour (ands) at 2s. ^d. the peck 7 

i oz. German yeast ) 

saltspoonful of salt I 

8 

Time required, quarter of an hour for making, two or three hours for rising, 
and one hour and a half for baking. 



Now we will show you how to make Bread. 

1. We take three pounds and a half of seconds flour, put 

three pounds of it into a large pan, and make a hole or well 
in the centre of the flour. 

N.B. Half a pound is reserved to work the bread up with. 

2. We put one ounce of German yeast into a basin. 

3. We add about a gill of tepid water, and stir the yeast 
into a stiff paste. 

4. We then fill the basin with luke-ivarm water, and stir 
the yeast smoothly, making in all about one pint and three 
gills. 

5. We add to \\\z flour half a teaspoonful of salt, and then 
pour in by degrees the yeast, mixing \\\z flour lightly into a 
dough with our hands. 

. 6. We should add more lukewarm water if the dough is 
too stiff. 

N.B. We must be sure to mix up all the flour into dough. 

7. We sprinkle about a tablespoonful of dry flour over 
the dough> and cover the pan with a cloth. 

8. We place the pan near the fire for at least two hours 
to let the dough rise. 

9. When the dough has risen sufficiently, we take up the 



380 Xational Training School far Cookery. 

pan and work in more four, if necessary, to make the 
dough stiff enough to turn out of the pan. 

X.B. We must keep our hands well floured all through the process of 
bread making. 

10. \Ve turn the dougli out on a well-floured board, and 
knead it well, using up a good deal more^/Ttw. 

11. \Ye divide the dough into six equal pieces, knead each 
piece separately, and make into a loaf. 

N. B. If the bread is to be baked in tins we form each loaf into a dumpling 
or ball (with a smooth surface and no cracks in it), either long or round 
according to the shape of the tin. 

12. \Ye put the bread into the tins, which should be well 
floured. 

13. \Yc cut a slit in the top of the dough, or prick it with 
a fork. 

N.I'. If the bread is to be made into cottage loaves. 

14. \Ye divide each piece into tico, one rather larger 
than the other. 

15. \Yc make each into a ball, put the smaller one on the 
top of the other, and press our forefinger into the middle of 
the top. 

N.B. Cottage loaves are baked on floured tins. 

N.B. If there are no tins the oven shelf should be washed and floured, and 
a tin is not then necessary. 

16. \Ye let the loaves rise half an hour in a warm place 
before we put them in the oven. 

17. \Ye then put them in the oven (the heat should rise 
to 280", and after a quarter of an hour be reduced to 220) 
for about one Jiour and a half. 

N.B. To test if the bread is sufficiently baked we should run a clean knife 
into the loaves, and if it comes out perfectly bright the bread is done. 4 j 

18. When we take the bread out of the oven we stand 
each loaf 'up on its side to cool. 

Now it is finished. 



Lesson on Making Unfermentcd Bread. 381 

BREAD. 

LESSON No. 2. 

UNFERMENTED BREAD. 

Average cost of " Unfermented Bread " (about two loaves). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

i Ib. of flour 2j 

i teaspoonful of baking powder 1 

Salt } * 

ZE 

Time required ', about three-quarters of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Unfennented Bread. 

1. We put one pound of flour into a basin and mix into it 
<one teaspoonful of baking powder and half a saltspoonful of 
salt. 

2. We add sufficient water to make it into a light firm 
dough (not too stiff). 

N.B. It will take about half a pint of water. 

3. We sprinkle flour over a board, and turn the dough 
out on it. 

N.B. We should keep our hands floured to prevent the dough from sticking 
to them. 

4. We should knead it with our hands, and make it up 
quickly into small loaves. 

N.B. Small loaves do better than large ones for unfermented bread, and the 
quicker the bread is made and put into the oven the better. 

5. We put the loaves on a floured baking sheet, and put 
them in the oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake for 
half an hour. 

N.B. To see if bread is sufficiently baked we run a clean knife into it, and if 
it comes out bright and untarnished, the bread is done. 

6. We take the bread out of the oven, and stand each 
loaf 'on its side to cool. 

Now it is finished. 



382 National Training School for Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. i. 

CHICKEN PANADA. 

Average cost of " Chicken Panada" 

INGREDIENTS. 

j. d. 

\ a chicken i 9 

A tablespoonful .of cream o \\ 

i ioV 
Time required, about four hours. 



Now we will show you how to make Chicken Panada. 

1. We take a cliickcn and clean it in the same way that 
we do for roasting a /<>:// (sec " Trussing a Fowl for 
Roasting "). 

2. \Vc cut the chicken in half, dividing it down the 
middle of the back with a sharp knife. 

3. \Ye take all the flesh off the bones of half the chicken,. 
and cut it into small pieces with a sharp knife. 

4. \Yc put the pieces of chicken into a gallipot, and 
sprinkle over them lialf a saltspoonful of salt. 

5. \Ye take a piece of paper and tie it over the top of 
the gallipot. 

6. We take a saucepan half full of boiling water, and put 
it on the fire. 

7. We stand the gallipot in the saucepan, and let it 
simmer for tico hours. The water must not cover the 
gallipot. 

8. After that time we take the gallipot out of the 
saucepan. 

9. \Ve take the pieces of chicken out with a spoon, We 
must not lose any of the liquor. 

10. We take the pieces of chicken, and put them into a 
mortar and pound them well to a pulp. 



On Sick-Room Cookery. Chicken Panada. 383 

11. We take a tammy sieve and stand it over a basin. 

12. We take the pounded chicken and pass it through the 
sieve, rubbing it with a wooden spoon. 

13. We pour a little of the chicken liquor into the pulp 
on the sieve to make it pass through more easily. 

14. When all the chicken pulp has been passed through 
into the basin, we stir in one tablespoonful of cream. 

Now it is finished. 



We use the bones for Chicken Broth. 

1. We take the chicken bones and put them in a saucepan? 
with one pint of cold water. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire and let it boil for 
three hours. 

3. We must watch it, and skim it occasionally. 

4. When required for use, we take a strainer and strain 
the chicken broth into a basin. 

5. We flavour it with pepper and salt according to the 
taste of the patient. 

Now it is finished. 



384 National Training School for Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 2. 

BEEF ESSENCE. 

Average cost of " Beef Essence'' 

INGREDIENT. 

i lb. of gravy beef 9</. 

Time required, about tit'o hours. 



"Now we will show you how to make Beef Essence. 

1. We take one pound of grcrcy beef, and cut off all fat 
-and gristle with a sharp knife. 

2. We cut the lean up into small pieces, and put them 
into a jar. 

3. We put the cover over the jar and tie a piece of paper 
over it. 

4. We take a saucepan half full of boiling icatcr, and 
and it on the fire. 

5. We stand the jar in the saucepan of boiling water to 
steam for two hours. The water must not cover the jar. 

6. When it is done we take a strainer and put it over 
a basin. 

7. We strain off the liquor into the basin, and flavour it 
with pepper and salt according to the patient's complaint 

X.B. The me At can be put aside and used again for second stock. 

New it is finished. 



Sick- Room Cookery. Cream of Barley. 385 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 3. 

CREAM OF BARLEY. 



Average cost of " Cream of Barley T 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

\ Ib. veal cutlet 72 

| oz. of barley oj 

\ gill of cream 3 

104 
Time required, about four hours. 



Now we will show you how to make Cream of Barley. 

1. We take half a pound of veal cutlet, and cut off all the 
fat with a sharp knife. 

2. We cut the lean into small pieces and put it in a 

saucepan with one pint of cold water. 

3. We add half an ounce of barley, (previously well washed 
and soaked an Jiour in cold water] , and half a saltspoonful of 
salt. 

4. We put the saucepan on the fire, and let it boil gently 
for two hours. 

5. We strain off the liquor into a basin, and put the meat 
and barley in a mortar and pound them together. 

6. We take a hair sieve, and put it over a basin. 

7. We turn the pounded meat and barley on to the sieve 
and rub them through with a wooden spoon. 

8. We pour the liquor on to the sieve to help the pulp to 
pass through. 

9. When it has all passed through the sieve into the 
basin, we stir in smoothly two tablespoonsful of cream* 

Now it is finished. 



B B 



386 National Training School for Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 4. 

A CUP OF ARROWROOT AND ARROW- 
ROOT PUDDING.' 

Average cost of" Cup of Arrowroot" and "Arrowoot 

Pudding* 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

A dessertspoonful of arrowroot o{ 

' a pint of milk I 

Castor sugar j 



2 eggs 



Time required, iil>onf ,? iin<:rttr .</"./// hour. 



Now we will show you how to make a Cup of Arrowroot. 

1. We take a dessertspoonful of Arrowroot, and put it into 
a small basin. 

2. We add a dessertspoonful of cold milk, and stir it 
smoothly into -^ paste with a spoon. 

3. We add a small teaspoonful of castor sugar, according 
to taste. 

4. We take a small saucepan, and put in it half a pint of 
cold milk. 

5. We put the saucepan on the fire, and watch the milk 
carefully until it boils. 

6. When it is quite boiling, we pour it on to the arrowroot 
paste, stirring all the time to get it quite smooth. 

N.B. If the patient prefers an Arrowroot Pudding: 

7. We add to the mixture described above, the yolks of 
two eggs, whipping it all well together. 

^'B. The eggs should not be added till the mixture has cooled a little, or 
they would curdle. 



Lessons on Sick- Room Cookery. Arrowroot 387 

8. We put the whites of the same eggs into another 
foasin, and whisk them to a stiff froth. 

9. We add the whites of the eggs to the arrowroot 
mixture, stirring them lightly together. 

10. We pour the mixture into a buttered dish, and put it 
into the oven (the heat should rise to 240) to bake for ten 
minutes. 

Now it is finished. 



13 B 2 



388 National Training School for Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 5. 

RICE WATER. 

Average cost of " Rice Water." 



o 

INGREDIENTS. 



a. 



3 O7,. of Carolina rice ........................ o* 

1 inch of the stick of cinnamon ............ ) i 



Sugar 



Time required, absiit one Juntr. 



Now we will show you how to make Rice U'ater. 

1. \\'c take three ounces of Carolina rice, and wash it well 
in two or three waters. 

2. \Ve take a stewpan with one quart of warm water. 

3. \Ve put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 

4. When the water is quite boiling, we put in the rice, 
and one inch of the stick of cinnamon, and let it boil for one 
hour, until the rice has become a pulp. 

5. \Ye then take the stewpan off the fire, and strain the 
rice water into a basin, and sweeten it according to taste. 

N.B. When cold it is ready for use. 

Xow it is finished. 



Lessons on Sick- Room Cookery. Barley Water. 389 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 6. 

BARLEY WATER. 

Average cost of " Clear Barley Water" (about lialf a pint}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 oz. of pearl barley o 

The rind of a quarter of a lemon o 

2 lumps of loaf sugar o^ f 



Time required, about one hour. 
For Making Thick Barley Water (about one pint). 

d. 

2 oz. of pearl barley o^- 

The rind of half a lemon o| 

Sugar c 1 

Time required, about two hours. 



Now we will show you how to make two kinds of Barley 
Water Clear Barley Water and thick Barley Water. 

For half a pint of dear barley water : 

1. We take two ounces of pearl barley, and wash it well 
in two or three waters. 



2. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 

3. We take a quarter of a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, 
and peel it very thinly. 

N.B. We must be careful, in peeling the lemon, not to cut any of the white 
skin, as it would make it bitter. 

4. We put the washed barley into a jug. 

5. We put in the lemon peel, and two lumps of loaf 
sugar. 

6. When the water in the kettle is quite boiling, we pour 
one pint of it on to the barley in the jug. 



39O National Training School for Cookery. 

7. We cover over the top of the jug, and let it stand on 
ice or in a cool place, until it is perfectly cold. 

8. We then strain the water into a clean jug for use. 

N.R. The barley can be used again, with the addition of cue ounce of fresh. 

Now it is finished. 



For one pint of tJiieh Barley Water : 

1. We take two ounces of pearl barley, and wash it well in 
two or three waters. 

2. We put the barley into a stewpan, with one quart oj 
e old water. 

3. We put the stewpan on the fire, and let it boil gently 
for two /tours. 

4. We take half a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, and 
peel it very thinly. 

5. We put the lemon peel into a jug. 

6. When the barley water is sufficiently boiled, we strain 
it into the jug over the lemon. 

7. We put the jug into a cool place, and when it is 
perfectly cold, we take out the lemon peel, and sweeten the 
water, according to taste. 

Xow it is finished. 



Lessons on Sick-Room Cookery. Apple Water. 391 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 7. 

APPLE WATER. 

Average cost of "Apple Water" (one quart). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

6 apples .................................. 2 

The rind of half a lemon .................. | A 

/ 



Sugar 



2.V 



Time required for making, about eight minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make Apple Water. 

1. We take six apples, peel them, and cut out the core. 

N.B. When the apples are juicy, six will be sufficient, but more may be 
required according to the season of the year. 

2. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 

3. We cut the apples up in slices. 

4. We take Jialf a lemon, wipe it clean in a cloth, -and 
peel it very thinly. 

6. We put the slices of apple and the lemon rind into a 

Jug- 

6. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one quart of 
it on to the apples in the jug. 

7. We sweeten it according to taste. 

8. We stand the jug of apple water aside to cool. 

9. When the water is quite cold we strain it into another 
jug, and it is then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



Xational Training School for Cookery. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON Xo. S. 

LEMONADE. 

Average cost of " Lemonade* (one pint and a Jialf). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 lemons 3 

Loaf sugar o{ 



Time re ; . ;u- hour. 



Now \ve will show you how to make Lemonade. 

1. We put a kettle of water on the fire to boil. 

2. We take tii'o lemons, wipe them clean in a cloth, and 
peel them very thinly. 

N.P.. We should be careful, in peeling the lemons, not to cut any of the 
pith, or white skin, as it would make the lemonade bitter. 

3. We now cut off" all the pith. 

4. We cut up the lemons into thin slices, take out all the 
pips, and put the slices and half the rind of tltc lemons into 
a jug. 

5. We add loaf sugar, according to taste, about one 
ounce. 

6. When the water is quite boiling, we pour one pint 
and a half o\\ to the lemons in the jug. 

7. We cover over the jug, and stand it aside to cool. 

8. When the lemonade is quite cold, we strain it into 
another jug, and it is then ready for use. 

Now it is finished. 



On Sick- Room Cookery. Toast and Water. 393 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 9. 

TOAST AND WATER. 

Average cost of " Toast and Water " (one quart}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

i crust of bread \d, 

I quart of cold water. 

Time, required, half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Toast and Water. 

1. We take a cnist of bread and toast it quite brown on 
all sides in front of the fire. 

N.B. Crumb should not be used as it would turn sour. 

2. We put the toasted crust of bread m\.o a jug, and pour 
on it one quart of cold water. 

3. We cover the jug over with a cloth, and stand it aside 
for half an hour. 

N.B. This is a pleasant drink, and considered more refreshing than when 
made with boiling water. 

Now it is finished. 



394 National Training School for Cookery, 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 10. 

GRUEL. 

Average cost of " Gruel" (one pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 

2 dessertspoonsful of patent groats o^ 

Sugar oj 

A nut of fresh butter ol 

A gill (2 tablespoonsful) of rum 3 



Time required, <//v// f fifteen w/'/v.v.V . 



Now we will show you how to make Gruel. 

1. \Ve put a stew-pan with one pint of icatcr on the fire 
to boil. 

2. \Ve take tico dessertspoonsful of patent groats, and put 
them in a basin. 

3. \Ve add by degrees tico table spoonsful of cold water to 
the groats, and stir it into a smooth /w.v/v. 

4. When the ictitcr in the stew-pan is quite boiling, we 
pour in the mixed gruel, and stir it well with a wooden 
spoon, until it has boiled for ten minutes (it must not be 
lumpy), we then pour it into a basin. 

5. Now it is ready for use. 

X.B. If the gruel is required for a cold 

6. We stir in a piece offres/t butter the size of a nut, and 
sweeten it according to taste. 

o 

7. We also add tico tablespoons/til of rum. 

N.B. If the patient is feverish, spirits should not be added. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Sick- Room Cookery. Treacle Posset. 395 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. n. 

WHITE WINE WHEY, OR TREACLE 

POSSET. 

Average cost of " White Wine WJiey? or " Treacle Posset " 

(half a pint}. 



INGREDIENTS. 



For White Wine Whey. 



d. 



2 pint of milk i 

4 lumps of sugar o 

i wineglassful of wine 3 



For Treacle Posset. 



or 



d. 
\ pint of milk ... i 

J a gill of treacle i 



Time required, about ten minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make White Wine Whey. 

1. We put half a pint of milk into a saucepan and four 
lumps of sugar. 

2. We put the saucepan on the fire to boil. 

3. When it boils we pour in a wineglassful of wine 
{sherry or cowslip) according to taste. 

N.B. If the milk is not quite boiling the wine will not curdle it. 

4. We move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let 
it stand for about one minute. 

5. We then strain the whey into a glass. 

N.B. The curds are not digestible. 

N.B. Treacle posset is made in the same way, except that no sugar should 
be added to the milk, and the same quantity of treacle is used instead 
of wine. 

Now it is finished. 



;96 National Training School for Cookery. 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 12. 

BRAN TEA. 

Average cost of " Bran Tea " (one quart]. 

INGREDIENTS. 

3 tablespoonsful of bran. ^ \ , 
Sugar or honey, j 4<4 

Time required, about twenty miint'< . 



Now we will show you how to make Bran Tea. 

1. \Ye put a kettle of icarm icater on the fire to boil. 

2. We take three tablespoonsful of bran (not too coarse, 
for that is greasy) and put it into a large jug. 

X.B. Bran is the husk of the qmin which is sifted from the flour after the 
wheat is ground by the miller. 

3. When the icater is quite boiling, we pour one quart 
into the jug. 

4. We cover the jug and let it stand for a quarter of an 
hour to draw. 

5. When it is drawn, we strain off the tea through a piece 
of muslin, and sweeten it according to taste with cither 
sugar or honey. 

N.B. When wine is good for the patient it may be added to the tea, or 
lemon juice, but it is very good without. 

N.B. This is an invaluable drink for softening the throat. 

Xow it is finished. 



Lessons on Sick- Room Cookery. Mutton Broth. 397 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 13. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Average cost of " Mutton Broth " (two quarts}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 

4 Ibs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton . 2 8 

2 knuckles from the legs of mutton .......... i o 

A saltspoonful of salt .................. ) i 

2 oz. of Patna rice ...................... ) 



Timt required for making, the stock should be made the day before, and 
then the broth can be finished in about half an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make tiuo quarts of Mutton 
Broth. 

1. We take four pounds of the scrag end of the neck of 
mutton, wash it well, put it on a board, cut away all the/??/', 
and chop it up in large pieces. 

2. We put these pieces into a stewpan, with two knuckle- 
bones from the legs of mutton. 

3. We pour in five pints of cold water and add a salt- 
spoonful of salt. 

4. We put the stewpan on the fire, just bring it to the 
boil, and then let it simmer for four hours. 

5. We must watch it and skim it very often. 

6. After that time we strain the stock into a basin, and 
put it aside until it is quite cold and in a stiff jelly. 

7. We then take the stock and remove all the fat from 
the top with a spoon. 

8. We take a clean cloth and dip it in hot water, and 
dab over the top of the stock so as to remove every particle 
of grease. 

9. We must now take a clean dry cloth and wipe the top 
of the stock dry. 



National Training School for Cookery. 

10. We take ti>jo ounces of Patna rice, and wash it well 
:n two or three waters. 

11. We put the stock into a stewpan. 

12. We put the stewpan on the fire to boil. 

13. When the stock is quite boiling- we stir in the rice, 
;md let it boil for twenty-five minutes to cook the rice. 

X.B. We should feel that the rice is quite tender. 

14. We season it with pepper and salt, according to the 
patient's complaint. 

15. For serving, we pour the broth into a basin. 

N.I3. The b^ncs should be put in the stock pot. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Sick- Room Cookery. Mutton Broth. 399 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY, 

LESSON No. 14. 

MUTTON BROTH. 

Average cost of this dish, i.e., about one quart of mutton 
broth and a dish of boiled mutton with parsley sauce 

INGREDIENTS. 

s. d. 
2 Ibs. of the scrag end of the neck of mutton i 2 

1 oz. of pearl barley or rice ) T 

2 a saltspoonful of salt / 

2 oz. of butter o of 

2 oz. of flour | , 

2 sprigs of parsley / 

T ->i 

1 3z 
Time required, about two hours and forty minutes. 



Now we will show you how to make Mutton BrotJi. 

1. We take two pounds of the scrag end of the neck oj 
mutton, and wash it well until it is quite clean. 

2. We put the meat into a large saucepan with three 
pints of cold water, and put it on the fire to boil. 

3. We take one ounce of pearl barley or rice, and wash it 
well in cold water. 

4. When the water boils we put in the pearl barley or 
rice and Jialf a saltspoonful of salt to help the scum to 
rise. 

5. We now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and 
let it simmer gently for t-ico hours and a half. 

6. We must watch it and skim it occasionally with a 
spoon. 

7. If the meat is required for immediate use we should 
make sauce to pour over it. 

8. We take a sprig or two of parsley, wash it and wring 
it in a cloth, put it on a board, and chop it up finely with a 
knife. 



400 National Training School for Cookery. 

9. We put half an ounce of butter into a saucepan and 
put it on the fire. 

10. When the butter is melted we stir in smoothly Jialf 
an ounce of flour with a wooden spoon. 

11. We take one gill (quarter pint) of broth from the 
mutton, pour it on to the butter and flour, and stir smoothly 
until it boils and thickens. 

12. We now add the chopped parsley to the sauce, and 
move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep warm till 
required for use. 

13. When the mutton is sufficiently cooked, we take out 
the meat and put it on a hot dish. 

14. We pour faz parsley sauce all over the mutton. 

15. We pour the broth into a basin to cool. 

16. When it is cold we should remove all the fat before 
warming it up for use. 

X.B. If the bivth is required fur immediate use \vc can remove the grease 
with blotting paper or whitey -brown paper. 

Now it is finished. 



Lessons on Sick- Room Cookery. Beef Tea. 401 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 15. 

BEEF TEA. 

Average cost of " Beef Tea " (one pint and a half, 

INGREDIENTS. 
i lb. of gravy beef .......................... g.f. 

Time required, about six hours. 



Now we will show you how to make Beef Tea. 

1. We take one pound of gravy beef, put it on a board, 
and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin and fat. 

2. We put the meat into a saucepan with one pint and a 
Jialf of cold water, half a saltspoonfnl of salt, and two or 
three peppercorns if allowed. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire, and just bring it to 
the boil. 

4. We then move it to the side of the fire to simmer 
gently for five or six hours, but we must not let it reduce 
too much. 

N.B. The lid should be on the saucepan. 

5. After that time we pour off the beef tea, or strain it 
through a coarse cloth into a basin, and let it get cold. 

6. We should remove all fat from the beef tea before 
warming it up for use. 

N.B. Fat can be taken off hot beef tea with blotting paper or whitey-brown 
paper. 

N.B. It is better nqt to strain beef tea, as it removes all the little brown 
particles which are most nutritious. 

Now it is finished. 



c c 



402 National Training School far Cookery. 

SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 



LESSON Xo. 16. 

BEEF TEA. 

(MADE WITH EQUAL OUANTITIKS OF r.r.r.F AND WATER.) 



Average cost of " Beef Tea " (lialf a pint}. 

INGREDIENTS. 

\ Ib. of gravy beef ; ' 

Time rc.jiiit. . rs c.nd ,1 <///,;/vVr. 



Now we will show you how to make />V;/~ Tea. 

1. \Ye take Jialf a pound of ^ret-cy beef, put it on a 
board, and cut it up very finely, removing all the skin and 

fat. 

2. \Ye put the jncat into a stone jar, with Jialf a pint of 
water. 

N.B. In making this biff tea the quantity of vic^t and -i\:1cr should l>o of 
ccjual weight, i.e., one pint to one pound. 

3. We put the lid on the jar, and tie a piece of paper 
over it. 

4. We stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water on 
the hob for three hours, or in the oven for one hour and a 
half. 

X.B. If the jar is put into the saucepan of boiling water, we should be 
careful that the water does not cover the jar, or it would get inside. 

5 C After that time we take out the jar, and pour off the 
beef tea into a cup. 

X.B. If allowed, we add salt according to taste. 

Xow it is finished. 



On Sick-Room Cookery. Liebigs Beef Tea. 403 
SICK-ROOM COOKERY. 

LESSON No. 17. 

LIEBIG'S QUICK BEEF TEA. 

Average cost of " Beef Tea " (half a pint). 

INGREDIENTS. 

\ lb. gravy beef 4^d. 

Time required, about a quarter of an hour. 



Now we will show you how to make Baron Liebigs quick 
Beef Tea. 

1. We take half a pound of gravy beef, put it on a board, 
and cut it up very fine, removing all the skin zn&fat. 

2. We put it in a saucepan with its equal weight in 
water, i.e., half 'a pint. 

3. We put the saucepan on the fire and bring it quickly 
to the boil. 

4. We let it boil for five minutes, and then pour it off 
into a cup. 

Now it Is finished. 



c c 2 



404 National Training School for Cookery. 



SICK-ROOM COOKERY, 

LESSON No 18 

SAVOURY CUSTARD. 

Average cost of " Savoury Custard" (one 

INGREDIENTS. 

d. 
2 eggs ................................ ) 

Salt .................................. ) 

i gill of beef tea ........ ................ 2] 

4\ 



Ttrtic required^ <;^i'/// t--ccnty minutes. 

Now we will show you how to make Savoury Custard. 

1. We take the yolks of t:co e^s and the white of one, 
and put them in a small basin. 

2. We add one gill of beef tea, and a quarter of a salt- 
spoonful of salt. 

3. We whisk up the eggs and the beef tea well together. 

4. We take a small gallipot and butter it inside. 

5. We pour the mixture into the gallipot. 

6. We take a piece of whitey-brown paper and butter it. 

7. We put this buttered paper over the top of the gallipot, 
and tie it on with a piece of string. 

8. We take a saucepan of hot water and put it on the 
fire. 

9. When the water is quite boiling, we stand the little 
gallipot in it. 

N.B. The water must not quite reach the paper \vith \\hich the gallipot is 
covered. 

10. We draw this saucepan to the side of the fire, and 
let it simmer for a quarter of an hour. 

N.B. It must not boil, or the custard will be spoiled. 

11. We take the gallipot out of the saucepan, take off 
the buttered paper, and the custard is ready for serving. 

Now it is finished. 



National Training School for Cookery. 405 



BUILDINGS REQUISITE FOR SCHOOLS 
FOR COOKERY. 

A school where twelve students may be practised in the several 
necessary processes or branches of cookery requires as follows :- 

1. A room about 20 ft. x 18 ft., and not less than 10 feet high, 
having a small suitable stove. 

2. A scullery of somewhat less dimensions. 

3. A larder, open to the north if possible. 

4. A cellar for coal and wood. 

This may be taken as the smallest amount of accommodation 
which is absolutely necessary for giving constant and systematic 
instruction. If it be desired to give lectures to numbers exceeding 
twelve, another room or rooms should be provided proportioned 
in size to the number of persons to be accommodated. 



The premises for the NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY 
are temporary, and were constructed in a large iron shed. Such a 
shed is not to be recommended on account of the great variations 
of temperature in it ; but the approximate dimensions of the 
Training School are given as affording some guide in providing 
the requisite accommodation for a Training school. 

1. A lecture or demonstration room, accommodating, say 120 
students, on seats rising above one another ; size. 39 ft. x 36 ft. 

2. Three practice kitchens, two for middle class cookery and 
one for artizan cookery, accommodating about twelve students 
in each room; size of each room, 1 8 ft. x 21 ft, not less than 
10 feet high. 

3. A scullery, or room used for practical lessons in cleaning 
utensils, &c., with sink draining out-of-doors; size, 2 oft. x 15 ft.. 

4. A larder ; size, 1 5 ft. x 1 1 ft. 

5. An office and meal room ; size, 18 ft. x 21 ft. 

6. A ladies' waiting-room and lavatory; size, 16 ft. x 14 ft. 

7. A servants' waiting-room ; size, 15 ft. x n ft. 

To this list a store-room and coal-cellar should be added. 



406 National Training School for Cookery. 
REGULATIONS AND FEES 

OF THE 

NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, 

SOUTH KENSINGTON. 

The National Training School for Cooker}- was established in 
the year 1874. 

The chief object of the school was to train teachers who should 
become instructors of cookery in training schools, board schools, 
and similar institutions. 

The courses of instruction in the school are : 

1. For educated persons who wish to qualify themselves to 
become teachers of cookery. 

2. For students and cooks. 

3. For those who wish to be able to practise cookery in their 
homes. 

The course of instruction for a Teacher of cookery is as 
follows :- 

She first goes as a pupil through the Scullery and Demonstra- 
tions ; this takes, working every day except Saturday, one month, 
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., with an interval from 12 to 2 for rest 
and lunch. At the end of the month, the pupil goes up for a 
Theoretical Examination, and her note books are looked at. 
She then spends one month learning in the Arti/an Practice 
Kitchen and a fortnight in teaching there what she has already 
learnt. She then goes into the Middle Class Practice Kitchen, 
and spends one month in learning, and a fortnight in teaching. 
The last month, is devoted to Practise in Demonstrating : first, a 
fortnight in private, and lastly, a fortnight in public, and for which 
the Lady Superintendent has drawn up careful and full rules, 
which are hung up close to where the student stands to give her 
Demonstration lesson. 



National Training School for Cookery. 407 

The fee for this five months' course of training is ^20. [May 
be paid by instalments in special cases.] 

During her course of training at the School, the student can, if 
she likes, dine with the other pupils, for is., or if that is beyond 
her means, she is allowed to purchase any little dish that happens 
to be cooked as a lesson at a merely nominal charge. Students 
can get comfortable lodgings in the neighbourhood of the School, 
either with a Lady who has taken a house expressly for the pur- 
pose of accommodating the students of the various Art Schools 
at South Kensington, or at the house of the Head Cook, the 
charges for lodgings and partial board ranging from i6s. to 2$s. a 
week. Saturday is a whole holiday at the School. 

The staff teachers receive 2 a week all the year round, and 
their dinner at the School while employed in London, and when 
sent to reside out of London they receive a further sum of 30^. a 
week for board and lodging, and all their travelling expenses ; 
three months' notice on either side terminates the engagement. 
When the staff teachers are all employed a few extra teachers are 
taken on " as improvers," at i a week, and thus they become 
competent to fill good appointments in the Provinces, when they 
offer. These engagements are terminable by a week's notice on 
either side. 

The work of teachers on the staff varies somewhat according to 
the nature of their appointment, i.e., if employed in the School 
itself, she would have to be in her kitchen by 9.30 a.m. to see that 
her kitchen-maid had everything in proper order for the pupils to 
begin work at 10 a.m., the lessons end at 4 p.m., the teacher would 
in most cases be able to leave the School at 5 p.m. and on Sunday 
she would be quite free. 

If the staff teacher is sent to the Provinces the hours of work 
in that case depend greatly upon the Local Committee who for 
the time being employ her, but the number of hours of work are 
limited to 24 in the week, to be distributed by arrangement with 
the Local Committee and the teacher. 



There is a shorter course for teachers wishing to train for 
Artizan teaching only, lasting ten weeks, the fee is 8 8>s. 



408 National Training School for Cookery. 

The fees for the courses of instruction for cooks and students 
are as follows : 

L s - d - 

Scullery cleaning, for five lessons 10 a.m. to 12 noon 0106 

Ten Middle Class Demonstrations and lectures .. 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 220 

Ten Artizan Demonstrations and lectures 10 a.m. to 12 noon o 10 o 

Ten Middle Class Practice lessons 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 3 3 o 

Ten Artizan Practice lessons ioa.ni. to 4 p.m. 220 

The necessary Provisions are found in the " Practice Kitchens." 

If the Scullery work be omitted by students in the Middle 
Class Practice Kitchen the fee would be 4 4^., and in the Artizan 
Kitchen $ 3*. 

A limited number of daily pupils are now admitted in the 
Practice Kitchen at a fee of los. 6J. for each day's instruction to 
new pupils, and 6s. 6</. to old pupils. 

R. O. C. 

OCToJiKR, 1877. 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

A-LA-MODE BEEF Stews 94 

Alexandra pudding Puddings ... 281 

Amber pudding Puddings 275 

Anchovy sauce Fish 1 99 

Apple charlotte Puddings 264 

jelly Jellies 327 

Apples and tapioca Puddings ... 298 
Apple turnovers and dumplings of 

short crust Pastry 255 

water Sick-room cookery 
Arrowroot, cup of Sick-room 

cookery 

pudding Sick - room 

cookery 

Aspic jelly from calves' feet 

Jellies 

Australian meat brown puree ... 

caramel (browned sugar) . 

curried rabbit 

fricassee of mutton 

Irish stew . , 



mince 

mulligatawny 

pie 

rissoles 

sausage rolls 

savoury hash 



BACON, rolls of Entrees 

Baked batter and fruit Puddings 

fish in vinegar 

mackerel or herring Fish 

potatoes Vegetables 

stuffed haddock Fish ... 
Baking meat 



386 
386 

315 
42 

43 
48 

52 
44 
59 
40 

50 
54 
46 

57 

76 
303 

212 
208 
221 
210 

22 



PAGE 

Barley water (clear) Sick-room 

cookery 389 

water (thick) Sick-room 

cookery 390 

Batter and fruit, baked Pud- 
dings 303 

pudding, boiled Puddings 284 

pudding, in a cup Pud- 

dings 288 

Beans, haricot Vegetables 234 

Beef, a-la-mode Stews 94 

Soups 172 

braised fillets of Entrees 68 

essence Sick-room cookery 384 

olives Entrees 81 

steak pie 121 

steak pudding 123 

Pastry 252 

stewed brisket of Stews ... I oo 

tea, Liebig's quick Sick- 

room cookery 403 

Sick-room cookery 401, 402 

Biscuits, milk 372 

oatmeal 373 

Blanc-mange Puddings 283 

Boiled batter Puddings 284 

cauliflower Vegetables ... 229 

cod Fish 204 

fish 215 

fowl 144 

mutton and parsley sauce 

Sick-room cookery 399 

new potatoes Vegetables 218 

pig's head, salted 128 

potatoes Vegetables 217 



4io 



Index. 



Boiled rice < . . . 

rice Tripe 

sheep's head 

tripe, with milk and onions 

Tripe 

turbot Fish 

Boiling meat 

Bonne femme Soups 

Braised fillet of veal 

fillet of beef Fntrees 

Bran tea Sick-room cookery ... 

Brawn boiled pig's head 

Brazilian stew Stew.s 

Bread 

pudding Puddings 

sauce Roast fowl 

unfennented 

Brisket of beef (cold) stewed 

Stews 

Broth Dr. Kitchener's Soup-; 

mutton S ick-room c > -k - 



PAGE 

92 
103 
137 



104 
187 

20 
I 5 8 
109 

68 

396 

129 

96 

379 
292 



ery 



mutton Sick-room cook- 

ery 

from Cheep's head Sheep's 

head 

Brown bread pudding Puddings 

puree of Au>tr.\lian meat . 

sauce Sauces 

stock ... 

Browned sheep's head 

Brussels sprouts Vegetables 

Buns . 



100 
173 

399 

397 



rice. 



Bullock's heart, stuffed and roasted 
Butter, clarifying Frying 



CABBAGE, pickled 

soup Soups 

Cabinet pudding Puddings . 

(cold) Puddings . 
Cakes Corn-flour cake 

dough cake , 

German pound cake . 

plain cake 

plum cake 



277 
42 

239 
183 

139 

226 

368 

370 
i ii 

25 



177 
260 

305 
363 
364 
355 
357 



Cakes rock 

seed cake 

Shrewsbury 

sultana cake 

Caramel (browned sugar) Aus- 
tralian meat 

Carrots and turnips Vegetables . 

Carrot pudding Puddings 

Carrots Vegetables 

Cauliflower au gratin - Vege- 
tables 

boiled Vegetal >lcs 

Charlotte russe Creams 

Chaudfroid of chicken Fntrees . 
Cheese with maccaroni 

souffle Souffles 

straws 

Chicken broth - Sick - room 

cookery 

chaudfroid of Fntrees ... 

fricassee of- Fntrees 

croquettes or rissoles of 

Fntrees 

panada Sick - room 

cookery 

Clarifying butters-Frying 

. dripping Frying 

fat Frying 

Cleaning a close kitchen range ... 
a copper stewpan 



I'AGE 

366 
359 
365 



a > r as stove 

o 



an enamelled stewpan 

an iron saucepan 

an open kitchen range 

Clear soup Soups 

Cod, boiled Fish 

Cold cabinet pudding Puddings 

chicken, fricassee of Entrees 

meat curry 

fried rissoles 

goblet pie 

hashed meat 

meat fritters 

minced meat 

shepherd's pie 

Cooked meat curry 



43 
227 

2/9 

237 

230 

229 

333 

72 
346 
338 

349 

383 

72 

77 
87 

382 
25 
25 
25 
13 
15 
14 
15 
<5 

12 
152 



305 

79 
33 
37 

3i 

26 

29 

39 

35 
33 



Index. 



411 



Cooked meat fried rissoles 

goblet pie 

hashed meat 

meat fritters 

minced meat 

shepherd's pie ... 
Corn-flour cake Cakes 

pudding Puddings 

in a cup Puddings... 

Cornish pasties 

Cow-heel jelly Jellies 

stewed, with onion sauce 

Jellies 

Cream of barley Sick-room 

cookery 

Creams charlotte russe 

strawberry cream 

vanilla cream 

Croquettes of potato Vegetables 

or rissoles of chicken 

Entrees 

Crowdie Soups 

Cup of arrowroot Sick-room 

cookery 

Curate's pudding Puddings 

Curried rabbit Australian 

meat 

rabbit or veal Entrees ... 
Curry, of cold meat 

of tripe Tripe 

(Indian) Entrees 

Custard pudding Pudd ings 

sauce Souffles 

Cutlets, lobster Fish 

mutton Entrees 

veal Entrees 

DOUGH cake Cakes 

Drinks apple water Sick-room 
cookery 

barley water (clear) Sick- 

room cookery 

barley water (thick) Sick- 

room cookery 

bran tea Sick-room cook- 

ery 



PAGE 

37 

3i 

26 

29 
39 
35 

363 
289 

284 

US 
21 



322 

385 
333 
33i 
329 
224 



174 

386! 
291 

48 
90 

33 

102 

61 
269 

336 

200 

70 

74 
364 



389 
390 
396 



PAGE 

Drinks lemonade Sick - room 

cookery 392 

rice water Sick - room 

cookery 388 

toast and water Sick- 

room cookery 393 

treacle posset Sick-room 

cookery 395 

white wine whey Sick- 
room cookery 395 

Dripping, clarifying Frying 25 

Dr. Kitchener's broth Soups ... 173 

Dumplings hard dumplings ... 309 

Norfolk dumplings 310 

Dutch sauce Sauces 242 

EGG sauce Boiled fowl 146 

Fish 192 

Entrees beef olives 81 

braised fillets of beef 68 

chaud-froid of chicken ... 72 

croquettes or rissoles of 

chicken 87 

curried rabbit or veal 90 

curry (Indian) 61 

fricassee of chicken 77 

fricassee of cold chicken ... 79 

haricot mutton 85 

Irish stew 83 

mutton cutlets 70 

quenelles of veal 65 

veal cutlets 74 

Essence of beef Sick-room 

cookery 384 

FAT, clarifying Frying 25 

Fillet of veal, braised 109 

Fillets of beef, braised Entrees . 68 

of sole a la maitre d'hotel 

Fish 196 

of sole, fried Fish 198 

Fire, to lay a 13 

Fish baked in vinegar 212 

baked mackerel or herring 208 

baked stuffed haddock 210 

boiled 215 



412 



Index. 



Fish, boiled cod 

boiled turbot 

fillets of sole a. la maitre 

d'hotel 

fish pudding 

fried fillets of sole..... 

fried plaice 

grilled salmon 

lobster cutlets 

pudding Fish 

sole au gratin 

whitebait 

Flaky cru-^t (for pies and tarts) 

Pastry 

Fowl, boiled 

for boiling, trussing a 

for roasting, trussing a 

roasted 

Fricassde of chicken Kntrces ... 

of cold chicken Entrees 
of mutton - - Australian 

meat 

Fried fillets of sole Fish 

Fried plaice Fish 

potato-chips - - Vegetables 

rissoles of cold meat 

slices of potato Vege- 

tables 

Fruit tart of short crust Pastry 
Frying 



GENOESE pastry Pastry . 
German pea-soup Soups . 

pound-cake Cakes. 

sauce Puddings 

Giblet soup Soups 

Ginger-bread nuts 

Goblet pie Cooked meat . 
Grilled salmon Fish 

steak 

Gruel Sick-room cookery. 



204 
187 

196 
190 
198 

213 
206 
200 
190 
194 
193 

258 

144 
144 

148 

148 

77 
79 

52 
198 

213 

222 



223 

247 

24 

248 
i So 

355 
278 

165 



Hash, savoury, of Australian meat 

Hashed meat- -Cooked meat 

Herring or mackerel, baked Fish 

ICELAND moss jelly Jellies 

Invalid pudding Puddings 

Irish stew Kntrces 

of Australian meat ... 
Stews 



JAM tart Pastry 

j Jellies apple jelly 

aspic jelly from calves' feet 

cow-heel jelly 

Iceland moss jelly 

milk jelly from cow-heel... 

ox-foot jelly 

porterjelly 

stewedco\v-heel, with onion 

sauce 

stewed ox -foot 

wine jelly from calves' feet 



'.N pudding Puddings ...... 

Lemonade Sick-room cookery .. 

Liebig's quick beef-tea Sick- 

room cookery ............ 

List of cleaning materials and 
utensils required in a 
kitchen ..................... 

utensils required in a first 
class school kitchen ...... 

utensils required in a second 
class school kitchen ..... 

Liver and bacon ................... 

Lobster cutlets Fi>h ............... 

sauce Fish . 



) AGE 

57 
26 

208 

3i9 
300 

*3 
44 
98 

259 

327 

315 
321 

319 
321 

323 
325 

322 
326 

3ii 

262 
392 

303 



II 



9 

119 
200 
188 



HADDOCK baked and stuffed Fish 
Hard dumplings Dumplings ... 

Haricot beans Vegetables 

mutton Entrees.. 



206 MACCARONI in milk Maccaroni 346 

117 with cheese 346 

394 soup Soups 181 

stewed in stock 348 

210 Mackerel or herring, baked Fish 208 

309 Mashed potatoes Vegetables ... 220 

234 turnips Vegetables 235 

85 Mayonnaise Sauces 240 



Index. 



Meat, Australian brown puree . 
caramel(browned 

sugar) 

curried rabbit ... 

fricassee of mut- 

ton 

Irish stew 

mince 

mulligatawny ... 

pie 

rissoles 

sausage rolls 

savoury hash ... 
baking 

boiling , 

fritters Cooked meat 

hashed Cooked meat ... 

minced Cooked meat ... 

pie, of Australian meat ... 
pie, beef-steak 

pudding, beef-steak 

re-cooked Curry 

re-cooked Fried rissoles . 

re-cooked Goblet pie ... 

re-cooked Hashed meat . 

re-cooked Meat fritters . 

re-cooked Minced meat . 
re-cooked Shepherd's pie 
roasting 

Milk biscuits 

jelly from cow - heel 

Jellies 

rolls 

soup Soups 

Mince, of Australian meat 

Minced meat Cooked meat 

Mock-turtle Soups 

Mutton, boiled, with parsley sauce 

Sick-room cookery ... 

broth Sick-room cookery 

Sick-room cookery 
cutlets Entrees 

fricassee, of Australian 

meat 

haricot Entrees ~, 

Mulligatawny, of Australian meat 



PAGE 

42 

43 
48 

52 
44 

59 
40 

So 
54 
46 

57 

22 
20 
29 
26 

39 
50 

121 

J23 

*J 'J 

3j 

37 

3i 

26 

29 
39 
35 
17 
372 

321 

376 

175 

59 

39 

167 

399 

397 

399 

70 

52 
8; 



PAGE 



NEW potatoes boiled Vege- 
tables 218 

Norfolk dumplings Dumplings 310 



OATMEAL biscuits 

Omelet, savoury 

souffle 

Onion sauce Boiled pig's head... 

Ox-foot jelly Jellies 

Ovster sauce Fish . 



373 
344 
342 
128 

323 
205 



PANCAKES Puddings 266 

Pastry beef-steak pie 121 

beef-steak pudding 252 

cornish pasties 115 

flaky crust, for pies and 

tarts 258 

fruit tart of short crust ... 247 

Genoese pastry 248 

patty cases of puff paste ... 245 

pie Australian meat 50 

pork pie 131 

puff paste 243 

rissoles of Australian meat 54 

rissoles of chicken Entrees 88 

rough puff paste, for pies, 

tarts, and tartlets 250 

sausage rolls 133 

sausage rolls of Australian 

meat 46 

short crust 246 

short crust for apple turn- 
overs and dumplings ... 255 

suet crust 252 

tartlets of puff paste 244 

Patty cases of puff paste Pastry 245 

Pea soup (German) Soups 180 

Soups 178 

Peas Vegetables 233 

Pickle for meat 352 

Pickled cabbage 351 

Pie of Australian meat 50 

beefsteak 121 

Pie, shepherd's, of cold meat 35 

P : -. rork 131 

Pig's fry Poor man's goose 126 



4H 



Index. 



PAGE 



Pig's head, salted and boiled 128 

Piquante sauce Sauces 241 

Plaice, fried Fish 213 

Plain cake Cakes 357 

Plum cake Cakes 361 

pudding Puddings 270, 296 

Poor man's goose Pig's fry 126 

Pork pie 131 

Porter jelly Jellies 325 

Potato chips, fried Vegetables... 222 | 

croquettes Vegetables .. 224 ! 

fried slices of Vegetables 223 

souffle Souffle's 340 

Potatoes, baked Vegetables 221 

boiled Vegetables 217 

mashed Vegetables 220 1 

new, boiled Vegetables 218 ' 

puree of Soups 160, 

saute Vegetables 221 

steamed Vegetables 218 

Pot-au-feu, or soup Soups 170 

Puddings Alexandra pudding ... 281 

amber pudding 275 

apple charlotte 264 

arrowroot Sick - room 

cookery 386 

baked batter and fruit 303 

batter pudding in a cup ... 288 

beef-steak 123 

beefsteak Pastry 252 

blanc-mange 283 

boiled batter 284 

bread-pudding 292 

brown bread pudding 277 

cabinet pudding 260 

carrot pudding 279 

cold cabinet pudding 305 

corn-flour pudding 289 

corn-flour pudding in a 

cup 286 

curate's pudding 291 

custard pudding 269 

fish Fish 190 

invalid pudding 300 

lemon pudding 262 

pancakes 266 



PACK 

Puddings plum pudding 270 

plum puddings 296 

rice pudding 268 

rice pudding (with egg) ... 290 

semolina pudding 302 

suet pudding 307 

tapioca and apples 298 

treacle pudding 294 

Viennoise or Vennoise 

pudding 273 

Yorkshire puddings 308 

Puffpaste Pastry 243 

rough, for pies, tarts, 

and tartlets Pastry 250 

Puree, brown Australian meat... 42 

of potatoes Soups 160 

QUENKLI.KS of veal Entrees ... 65 

RAIUUT curried Australian meat 48 

curry of Entrees 90 

Rice, boiled 92 

Tripe 103 

buns 370 

water Sick-room cookery 388 
pudding (with egg) 

Puddings 290 

pudding 268 

Rissoles, fried Cooked meat 37 

of Australian meat 54 

or croquettes of chicken 

Entrees 87 

Roast bullock's heart, stuffed ... in 

fowl 148 

Roasting meat 17 

Rock cakes 366 

Rolls of bacon Entrees 76 

Rough puff paste, for pies, tarts, 

and tartlets Pastry ... 250 

SALMON, grilled Fish 206 

Sauce, anchovy Fish 199 

bread 151 

brown Sauces 239 

custard Souffles 336 

Dutch Sauces 242 

146 



Index. 



415 



PAGE 

Sauce egg Fish 192 

for boiled fish Fish 215 

German Puddings 278 

lobster Fish 188 

mayonnaise Sauces 240 

oyster Fish 205 

piquante Sauces 241 

Tartare Fish 207 

white Sauces 238 

wine Souffle's 336 

wine or brandy Puddings 272 
Sausage rolls 133 

of Australian meat 46 

Saute potatoes Vegetables 221 

Savoury custard Clear soup ... 154 

Sick-room cookery 404 

hash of Australian meat .. 57 

omelet 344 

Scones 374 

Sea pie 135 

Seed cake Cakes 359 

Semolina pudding Puddings ... 302 

Sheep's head, boiled 137 

broth 137 

browned 139 

Shepherd's pie Cooked meat ... 35 

Shrewsbury cakes 365 

Short-bread 375 

Short crust Pastiy 246 

for apple dumplings and 

turnovers Pastry 255 

Sick-room cookery apple water 391 

arrowroot pudding 386 

barley water (clear) 389 

barley water (thick) 390 

beef tea 401, 402 

boiled mutton, with 

parsley sauce 399 

bran tea 396 

chicken panada . . . 382 
cream of barley ... 385 

cup of arrowroot ... 386 

gruel 394 

lemonade 39 2 

Liebig's quick beef 

tea.. 403 



PAGE 

Sick-room cookery mutton broth 

397, 399 

rice water 388 

savoury custard . . . 404 

toast and water . . . 393 

treacle posset 395 

white wine whey ... 395 
Sole a la maitre d'hotel, fillets of 

Fish 196 

au gratin Fish 194 

fried fillets of Fish 198 

Souffle cheese Souffles 338 

omelet 342 

potato Souffles 340 

vanilla Souffle's 334 

Soups bonne femmesoup 158 

cabbage soup 177 

clear soup 152 

crowdie 1/4 

Dr. Kitchener's broth 173 

German pea soup 180 

giblet soup 165 

maccaroni soup 181 

milk soup 175 

mock turtle soup 167 

mulligatawny soup Aus- 

tralian meat 40 

pea soup 178 

pot-au-feu 170 

puree of potatoes 160 

spring vegetable soup 162 

tapioca cream 156 

Spinach Vegetables 231 

Spring vegetable soup Soups ... 162 

Steak, grilled 117 

stewed 141 

Steamed potatoes Vegetables ... 218 
Stewed beef or ox-cheek, with 

vegetables Pot-au-feu... 170 

cow-heel, with onion sauce 

-Jellies 3 22 

ox-foot Jellies 326 

steak I4 1 

Stew, Irish, of Australian meat... 44 

Entrees 83 

Stews a-la-mode beef 94 



416 



Index. 



PAGE 



Stews Brazilian stew 

Irish stew 

stewed brisket of beef 

(cold) 

Stock, brown 

made with vegetables 

white 

Strawberry cream Creams 

Suet crust Pastry 

pudding Puddings 

Sultana cake Cakes 

TAPIOCA and apples Puddings 

cream Soups 

Tart filled with jam Pastry 

Tartare sauce V isli 

Tartlets of puff paste Pastry.. 

Toad-in-the-hole 

Toast and water - - Sick - room 

cookery 

Treacle posset Sick-room cook- 
ery 

pudding Puddings 

Tripe a la Coutancc -Tripe 

boiled, witli milk and onions 

curried tripe 

Trussing, a fowl for boiling 

a fowl for roasting 

Turbot, boiled Fish 

Turnips and carrots Vegetables 

mashed Vegetables 



96 
98 

100 

183 

185 
183 

331 ! 

252 ! 
307; 

353! 



298 
156 

259 
207 
244 

143 
393 

395 
294 
1 06 
104 
1 02 
144 
148 
187 
227 

235 



UNFERMENTED bread 381 



VANILLA cream Creams 

souffle Souffles ... 

Veal, fillet of, braised 



329 

334 
109 



Veal curry of Entrees 

cutlets Entrees 

quenelles of Entrees 

Viennoise, or Vennoise pudding- 
Puddings 

Vegetables, baked potatoes 

boiled cauliflower 

boiled new potatoes 

boiled potatoes 

brussels sprouts 

carrots 

carrots and turnips 

cauliflower au gratin 

fried potato chips 

fried slices of potato 

haricot beans 

mashed potatoes 

mashed turnips 

peas 

potato croquettes 

saute potatoes 

spinach 

steamed potatoes 

Vegetable stock 

WHITKIIAIT Fish 

White sauce Sauces 

stock 

wine whey Sick-room 

cookery 

Wine jelly from calves' feet- 
Jellies 

or brandy sauce Puddings 

sauce Souffle's * 



PAGE 

90 

74 
65 

273 

221 
229 
218 
217 

226 

237 

227 

230 

222 
223 

234 
22O 

235 

233 
224 

221 

231 

218 

I8 5 

193 
238 
183 

395 



272 

336 



YORKSHIRE pudding Puddings 308 , 
Yorkshire tea cakes 377 



THE END. 



ATJI.UKY, AGNEW, & CO., 1'KINTKRS, WH1TEFKIAUS. 



