RECIPES 



NFORMATION FOR EVERYBODY, 



AN INVALUABLE COLLECTION OP NEARLY THREE HUNDRED 



TRIED AND USEFUL RECIPES, 



ALL ARRANGED WITH A COPIOUS INDEX. 



JACOB F. LANDIS, 

No. 414 Walnut St., Harrisburg, Pa. 



AGENTS WANTED EVERYWHERE 



RECIPES: 



INFORMATION FOR EVERYBODY. 



AN INVALUABLE COLLECTION OP NEARLY THREE HUNDRED 



TRIED AND USEFUL RECIPES 



ALL ARRANGED WITH A COPIOUS INDEX. 



JACOB F. LANDIS, 

No. 414 Walnut St., Harrisburg, Pa. 




Entered according to Act ot Congress, in the year 1877, by Jacob F. Landis, with the 
Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D, C. 



<x^^^ 



u-^^ 



TO THE READER. 



This book contains a great many valuable re- 
cipes for everybody, and every one giving it a 
careful perusal will find it so, and it will be worth 
ten times its cost to any one, which is only $1.25. 
It is useless for people to pay from five to twenty 
dollars for a single recipe, when within this book 
you can find all you need. Agents wanted every- 
where. They will find this a paying business, with 
but little capital. Persons wishing to engage in 
the sale of the book should address the publisher 
for private circulars, giving wholesale prices. 

JACOB F. LANDIS, 

414 Wahmt St., Harrishurg, Pa. 



RECIPES AND CURES. 



Section 1. 

A salve to cure the Itch in twelve hours. It also destroys 
lice and nits in twelve hours, and bedbugs^ if put in the 
cracks co7itaining the nits, likewise the loeavils. 

A person having the itch, must rub himself all over where 
the pustules are, with tliis salve, before going to bed, and 
after rising in the morning, take off the shirt and cleanse 
himself with a wet rag, after which he has to put on a clean 
shirt and cleanse the bed, and the itch will have left him. 
Children are to be greased on the head with this salve, till 
the hair is all greasy, then the head is to be tied up with a 
handkerchief This will kill the lice and nits in one night. 
The salve is not injurious to children. To be prepared as 
follows: 

To 4 ounces Venice turpentine and 4 ounces red precipitate 
add one pound fresh butter that has not been in water. This 
mixture is sufficient for twelve men to rub themselves with 
for the itch, but the Venice turpentine ought to be washed 
nine times before it is used for making the salve, which is to 
be done in the following manner: put one ounce Venice tur- 
pentine (or more if a greater quantity of salve is required) 
into an earthen vessel that will hold a pint, then take a chip 
of wood and go to where there is running water and holding 
the vessel containing the turpentine towards the water, take 
in a full gill and with the chip stir the turpentine well together 
with the water about two minutes, then pour off the water 
carefully and take in another gill of water (holding the vessel to- 
wards the stream) and stir it well together as before. Thus 
the turpentine is to be washed nine times, after which it will 
be very pure. The last water must be poured off completely, 
then take a quarter of a pound of butter, good weight, just 
out of the buttermilk and melt it in a pan, but do not suffer it 
to get hot, then pour it into the vessel with the turpentine 
and stir it well with the chip of wood ; lastly add one ounce 
red precipitate, stir it again thoroughly, and the salve is done. 

N. B. The salve ought every time to be stirred up before 
it is rubbed on. 



Section 2. 
A cure for' the Felon, if u&ed directly in the beginning, 

LAVS'V-.SRA: 

• • • 
Now I rely on the name of God, that this word will destroy 

the seed of the felon. 

First write the letters with the dots, then write the words, 
in the next place tie the side of the paper with the writing- 
over the felon and leave it on for 24 hours. It will be pain- 
ful for the first 12 hours, but after it has been on 24 hours, 
the felon will be killed. 

Section 3. 
What time the red Chickweed is to be Gathered. 

The red chickweed ought to be gathered on St. John's day; 
if it is not altogether in blossom on St. John's day new style, 
cut it on that of the old style, and dry it in the shade on the 
o-arret, spreading it on a board that it may become thoroughly 
dry, leave it there for nine days, then take it off and tie it up 
carefully in a handkerchief. If treated in this manner, it is 
the effectual remedy for man against the bite of a mad dog. 

Section 4. 
A cure for the bite of a mad dog. 
If a man is bitten by a mad dog, he ought without delay 
to go to some running stream of water, but if there is none 
nigh at hand, other water may be taken and sweet milk add 
ed thereto, then he ought to wash the wound carefully and 
take off the clothes he had on when bitten, soak them in fresh 
water and put on others. As soon as he is arrived at home, 
he has to take some of the mortification powder inwardly, as 
described in this book, and also to make a poultice of it over 
the wound, and to boil bread in sweet milk from which the 
cream has not been taken off, and tie it on, but this must only 
be left on half an hour, when the poultice is to be taken off 
and a fresh one to be a})plied that may be kept on for an hour, 
after which it is to be renewed again and may be kept on for 
eight or nine hours. Any poultice whicn is made use of for 
the bite of a snake, may also be employed for drawing out 
the poison imparted by the bite of a mad dog, but care ought 
to be taken that no animal gets the poultices which are taken 
off. Now take for a strong person, a full ounce of red chick- 
weed and one ounce hops, put it together into a clean earthen 
pot and boil it slowly in a quart of water over a coalfiire until 
boiled down to half the quantity, then pass it through a clean 



linen cloth into a clean bowl or dish and let it stand till it is 
nearly cool, after which pnt into a bottle and cork it well. 
Of this medicine, a person of strong constitution is to take a 
gill the first morning after the bite with an empty stomach, 
and so on every morning till the drink is finished, and in the 
evening he is to take a little of the mortification powder in 
strong vinegar. A weak person has to take^ half a gill only 
at a time, yet he must continue until the drink is all taken, 
and of the powder as much as can be put on a five-penny bit. 
It is to be observed that no pork ought to be eaten for two 
weeks, nor any thing dressed with lard, nor ought any strong 
drink be indulged in, and over-heating and anger to be guard- 
ed against for a whole year. 

Section 5. 
A never failing cure for the Dropsy. 
Put into a new earthen pot three quarts cider, one gill of 
mustard-seed, half a pint scraped liorseraddish and three 
pound rusted iron, cover the whole up closely that none of 
the strength can escape, thus let it stand 24 hours; after 
which you may drink of it. This is to be drank to quench 
the thirst as often as the patient is dry, but the beverage 
ought to be well covered again every time. All kinds ot 
food may be taken, excepting milk, tea and water. 

Section 6. 
One of the best cures ever invented for Frostbitten Feet. 

Take about six quarts chicken dung and stir it w4th about 
two gallons boiling water in a bucket, then place a small 
board across the bucket, on which you can put your feet and 
cover your feet up till the mixture is sufticiently cool to put 
them in, then keep them in till it gets cold. 
Section 7. 
A cure for Burns. 

When I am suffering whith burning heat, the Lord alone 
is my help, he comes to me with kindness and takes away 
from" (here the name of the burnt person is to be spoken) 
hot and cold burnings. The three highest names are then to 
be spoken and while doing so, the injured part is to be blown 
upon three times. The above to be repeated three times. 

Section 8. 
IIoiD to Stojj Bleeding. 
' On the blood of Christ and his heart are growing three 
roses, the first is white, the second red, the third good ; there- 



6 

with I stop thy bleeding, (here the name of the patient is to 
be added) then the three highest names. 

This ought never to be used for animals, but for men only 
when necessary. 

Section 9. 
Another Cure to Stop Bleeding, 
Make three small wedges of wood and cover them over 
with the blood, then drive them into a block where it has a 
crack. The block must lay dry. 

Section 10. 
A Cure for the Stomach and Pu7'ification of the Blood. 

Take gentian root, ginseng root, elder bark, elder root, the 
rind of sassafras root, noarhound, burdock, half an ounce of 
each and rosin of pine, as much as the size of a hickorynut, put 
the whole together into a bottle and add :i quart good rye 
whisky. After this has stood for 24 hours \ou may use it. 

A grown person of a strong constitution may take a tea- 
spoonful of it at a time, and it can easily be ascertained whether 
more or less will do. It is to be taken in the morning before 
breakfast, at noon and in the evening. 

Section 11. 
Another receipt for Purifying the Blood and Strengthening 
the Stomach. 
Take mace, flour of sulphur, cloves, cinnamon, half an 
ounce of each, eleven penny bits worth of saffron and about 
half an ounce small snake root, put it altogether into a bottle 
and add one quart good wine, let it stand 24 hours and it will 
be fit for use. A tea-spoonful may be taken in the morning 
before breakfast, or it may be taken three times a day. 

Section 12. 

A Cure for Consumption. 

Take of the herb of harts tongue, lungwort, liverwort, sas- 
saparill-root and fluellin, a small handful of each, put the whole 
into a new clean earthen j^ot, adding thereto two quarts good 
wine, then boil it slowly over a coal fire. The pot must be 
kept covered, but the mixture is to be stirred every five min- 
utes with a clean chip of pine wood. From the time when it 
begins to boil, .leave it on the fire for a quarter of an hour, 
then take it off and let it cool until milk warm, strain it 
through a clean linen cloth, put it into a bottle and cork it up. 
A grown person may take a table-spoonful of it before break* 
fast, and repeat the dose every three hours. He ought also 



to eat every day a little spoon wort or water cress (tongrass.) 
Any kind of victuals may be eaten, excepting pork and strong 
vinegar. 

Section 13. 

Another Cure for the Consumption. 
Gather the herb and flowers of the violet in the month of 
May, and dry them in the shade. Then you may smoke it 
out of a pipe. 

Section 14. 

Another Cure for the Consumption. 

Take a newly laid hen's q^^ on the third day of new moon 
in the morning before breakfast, break it into a glass and stir 
it well with a chip of pine wood, then add a gill of good wine 
and drink it for seven or nine days. 

French clover (Hasenklee) is also very good for the con- 
sumption, if a little of it is eaten every day. 

Section 15. 

A Cure for the Retention of the Urine. 

Any person that cannot make his water, may take a little 
cinquefoil, a few plantain leaves with the root, and a little 
sheeps dung, and drink it as a tea. 

Tea, made of nettles, is a good remedy also for the above 
complaint. 

Section 16. ' 

A Cure for Warts or any other Excrescence. 

On the third day of the increase of the moon, in the even- 
ing you see the new moon for the first time ; then take out 
your patient and putting your finger on the wart and looking 
up to the new moon, speak as follows: what I look upon is 
increasing and what I now touch is decreasing; after repeat- 
ing this three times walk home again. 

Section 17. 

A Receipt for Making Mortif cation Powder. 

Take a quarter of a pound of gunpowder, one quarter of a 
pound of brimstone and a half pound of alum, put the whole 
into a morter and pound it as fine as dust. Of this powder 
a person of a strong constitution may take as much as can be 
laid on a nine-penny-bit, in a small table spoonful of strong 
vinegar. A weaker person may take less in pr()portion. It 
is to be taken every two hours. This powder prevents mor- 
tification and is good also for St. Antony's fire. 



Section 18. v 
One of the best Poultices for Gangrene. {^lortijixation.) 

If this poultice is applied and some of the mortification 
powder taken at the same time, no danger is to be appre- 
hended. 

Take one handful oats and one handful red cedar leaves, 
with the little sprigs to which the leaves are attached, cut the 
latter fine and put it with the oats into a pan, roast it in the 
same manner as coffee is roasted and grind the whole in a 
coffee mill, then put it again into the pan and add nearly a 
pint of sweet cream, boil it to a paste and break an egg into 
it and stir it well together, then take it from the fire, spread 
it on a clean linen rag and put it on the sore as warm as you 
you bear it. 

Section 19. 

How to Purify Sweet Oil. 
Take as much shot as would be sufticient for two gun-loads, 
put them into a bottle of sweet oil and it will become as clear 
as water; 

Section 20. 

An Infallible Remedy for the Restoration of Hearing lohen 

Lost. 

Take peppermint, some pepperwoit and the head of a rat» 
singe off the hair and boil it with the pepperwort in a ful 
pint of March snow water, put in also three heads of hops, 
then mix it up with a pint of flour and make a dough of it, 
working as much of the peppermint (which has previously to 
be cut quite fine) into the dough as it will take, then bake a 
cake of it, and in the evening before going to bed, split it in 
two and tie the one half on the right and the other half on the 
l^ift ear and leave it on till next morning when you take it 
off, and put three dorps of the purified sweet oil into each ear. 
The fat of a rattlesnake is also very good for deafness, pro- 
vided a snake can be had, that has not bitten itself which 
cannot well be prevented, unless the head be shot off before 
the animal becomes angry. The body is not poisonous, un- 
less bitten, and if you can procure one of that description, 
yptiinay put a drop of the fat in each ear every ninth day. 

'i^-> ; Section 21. 

^^,, ..'^., . A certain Care for the Tooth-ache. 

i\ Taker ia goose quill and cut it off where it begins to be hoi" 
l©w,r then , scrape off a little from each nail of the hands and 
feet, put it into the quill and stop it up, after which bore a 



hole towards the rise ol the sun, into a tree that bears no 
fruit, put the quill with the scrapings of the nails into the 
hole and with three strokes close up the hole with a bung 
made of pine wood. It must be done on the first Friday in 
new moon in the morning. 

Section 22. 

I^ills for the Tooth-ache. 

Put a little brown sugar into a pan and boil it over the fire 
till it gets bubbles, then add as much ground pepper as there 
is sugar, take it from the tire and stir together, after which 
make it into pills of a size that can be put into a hollow tooth. 

Section 23. 

A Cure far the Pleuresy. 

Take a small handful of hawthorn blossom, as many thistle 
flowers, a little catnip, a small handful of buds from a peru- 
vian balm tree (these buds are to be taken from the tree in 
the beginning of March.) and a little hoarhound, put the 
whole together into a bottle and add a quart of spirits or rye- 
whisky. This medicine will not produce its full effect, un- 
til it is one year old, when it is to be strained through a piece 
of new linen and to be put into a clean bottle. A strong- 
person may take a tea-spoonful of it every two hours as long- 
as the complaint lasts. 

Section 24. 
Oil for Diarrhoea. 

Take Mullen blossoms, fill a bottle and hang it in the sun 
until the oil is all extracted, then drain into another bottle. — 
Dose, from a half to a tea-spoonfui, until a cure is effected. 

Section 25. 
7b cure Folevil and Fistula. 
Take one ounce of aquafortis, one pint good vinegar, ten 
cents worth of spirits turpentine, one cake Spanish soap; put 
in a new jug, let stand for twenty-four hours. Use twice a 
day; when better, once a day. This cure is said to have 
never failed. 

Section 26. 

Take the entrails of a trout caught between christmas and 
new^ year, put them upon a copper lid and burn them to pow- 
der, put it into the stock of your gun, also in a little bag, 
and hang it under the right arm. You will then be able to 
shoot whatever you desire. If you carry the same under your 
left arm, you will be gay and happy. 



10 

Section 27. 

To make oneself Shot proof. 

According to this formula, on the day of Saints Peter and 

Paul, at vesper time, there spring open maynort roots of 

which hunters and men of the forest believe that he who 

canies them on his person cannot be hit or shot. 

Section 28. 
To Catch Fish. 
Take valerian and make small cakes thereof, throw these 
into the deep. As soon as a fish eats thereof, it will become 
intoxicated and float upon the surface. 
Section 29. 
How to Shoot loith Accuracy. 
Take a needle wherewith the gown of a corpse had been 
sewed, and drive it into the stock, and you will always shoot 
accurately. 

Section 30. 
For Dysentery. 

Boil an ^g^ and eat it as hot as you can, without bread or 
salt. 

Section 31. 
When a woman cannot give birth to a child, give her the 
milk of another woman to drink, or a parsnip which must be 
bruised fine, then tie the same over her belly. She will soon 
be easy and come to rest. 

Section 32. 
For Stoppage of Urine in ISIen or Womert. 
Take rock flint stone five cents, emetic tartar water five 
cents, crab's eyes five cents, one handful of cornellian cher- 
ries, and a small glass of brandy. All this mix well, and 
take two or three times thereof. It will surely help. 

Section 33. 
Whe?i a Person Cannot Hold his Water. 
Take three pinches of ^^^ shell, powdered, of eggs from 
which the young chicks came out. 

Section 34. 
What Black Snails are good for. 
They exterminate warts and corns on hands and feet, heal 
ruptures and other injuries. They must be prepared thus: 
put all the snails together in a pot, throw much salt therein, 
bury the pot for nine days, after this distil the matter in a 
glass in the sun. 



11 

Section 35. 
How to Prevent Feeling Gold in Winter. 
Take nettlewort garlic, pour lard to it and boil together. 
When hands and feet are greased with this ointment one 
will not feel cold. 

Section 36. 
To catch many Fishes. 
Take roast corn and mustard grain and the feet of a weasel, 
hang them in a net and the fish will there congregate. 

Section 37. 
Hoio to Obtain a Good Memory. 
Take the gall of a partridge and with it grease the temples 
every month and your memory will be like that of Mnemon. 

Section 38. 
A Gertain Way to Stop the Blood. 
Take bread and leaven and mix with brandy to a plaster^ 
and bind with it sores and wounds. 

Section 39. 
When a woman suffers womb disease, carroway seed oil, 
juniper brandy and juniper berry oil, of each ten cents worth ; 
when the pain is felt one or two tea spoonfuls thereof to be 
taken. 

Section 40. 
To Drive away Lice. 
Fishberry and lard mixed together, and the head anomted 
therewith. 

Section 41. 
A Splendid Eye Water. 

Take white rose water, or in case this cannot be had red 
rose water, and a little native camphor, five cents worth of 
white vitriol, pound into a mortar, then pour the rose water 
over it, shake well ; before retiring to sleep wet a clean linen 
cloth in this water and rub the eyes with it. It is also good 
to clear the freckles off the face. 

Section 42. 

A Wash for Ladies to obtain a Fair and Beautiful 

Physiognomy. 

Take bread crumbs, put them into goats milk whey, strain 

or distil it, paint the face with it, and it will become fair and 

beautiful. 



12 

Section 43. 
Remedy for Nose Bleeding. 
Dip a little wadding in good ink, insert it into the nose or 
other bleeding injuries ; it will stop the blood. 

Section 44. 
When dropsy threatens the system take three drops of 
umber oil in wine, and the purging will cause the dropsy to 
desist. 

Section 45. 
For Swollen Feet and Pains of the Skin. 
The bark of elderberry mixed with strong salt water should 
be used as a wash for sore feet and other injuries of the skin. 

Section 46. 

IToic to Prevent the Obstruction of Menstruation. 

When women are suffering from stoppage of their monthly 

periods they should take the sap or juice of the elder bark. 

Use a syringe or apply the bruised leaves of this shrub warm 

upon the navel. 

Section 47. 
For Rheumatism. 
Take good rye whisky 1 quart, and poke berries; one 
swallow to be taken in the morning. 

Section 48. 
tor Dyspepsia. 
Take the white poplar bark and put in good whisky^ Dose, 
one swallow three time a day. 

Section 49. 

C\ire for Piles. 

The gum or pitch taken from white pine, and made into 

pills the size of a pea; begin with one, taking one more 

every day until you have nine, and then take one less every 

day until you come down to one again. 

Section 50. 
For Boils. 
Tar and yoke of o^gg in equal parts mixed. 
Section 51. 
An elegant Poultice is made as foUoics : 
Take ho})S and boil them, but do not strain them; stir in 
wheat flour, not too thick. This poultice will take all cold 
or inflammation out of any sore, and also swelling. 



13 

Section 52. 

Cure for Burns. 

Litharge 1 lb., sweet oil 1 quart, vinegar 1 quart. The 

litharge and vinegar to be boiled down to a pint and left to 

settle, and then pour the liquid oif and add the sweet oil and 

mix. 

Section 53. 

American Writing I)ik. 

Extract of logwood 2 ounces, bichromate of potash ^ ounce, 
boiling water 1 gallon. 

Section 54. 
Cure for Cancer. 
Take a piece of polk root and an onion of equal size, roast- 
ed in hot ashes and then dried in the shade, and when thor- 
oughly dry powder them and mix with lard, then add as 
much red precipitate as will make it red — not too red. Ap- 
ply a plaster in the morning and leave it on till next morn- 
ing, then take it off and wash the cancer with a strong tea 
made of horse dock. If not cured, apply again. 

Section 55. 
A Simple Remedy. 

■ It is said that the juice of lemons used freely, cures throat 
and lung diseases. 

Section 56. 
Fomentation JRecijyt. 

Gum myrrh 4 ounces, gum aloes 4 ounces, camphor 2 oun- 
ces, gum shellac 1^ ounce, whisky one pint. It is the best 
liniment in use for healing, and also for cramps and colic. 
1 tea spoonful to be taken as a dose, until relieved of paii). 

Section 57. 

Remedy for Fever and Ague. 

Peruvian bark, two ounces; wild cherry tree bark, one 
ounce; cinnamon, one drachm, all pulverized; capsicum, one 
teaspoonful; sulphur, one ounce; port wine, two quarts. Let 
stand a day or two. Always buy the Peruvian baik and ]>ul- 
verize it, as most ready pulverized articles are adulterated. 
This is the reason why more cures are not performed by it. 
Dose, a wineglassful every two or three hours a day until all 
is used. This mixture will be found excellent for intermit- 
tent fever and fever and ague. 



14 

Section 58. 
Fixing Shingles. 
Farm buildings frequently undergo repair at this season of 
the year. Especially are new roofs laid on barns and out- 
buildings. It may be worth while to state what is amply 
proved to be fact, that oiling or painting shingle roofs at the 
time of laying shingles, pays. Dipping the butts into hot 
whitewash is also recommended to be done as the shingles 
are laid. There can be no doubt of the economy of thus pro- 
tecting roofs from decay — by either painting, oiling, or white- 
washing. 

Section 59. 

A Hot Lemonade 

Is one of the best remedies in the world for a cold. It acts 
promptly and effectively, and has no bad after effects. One 
lemon properly squeezed, cut in slices, put with sugar, and 
cover it with half a pint of boiling water. Drink just before 
going to bed, and do not expose yourself on the following 
day. This remedy will ward off an attack of the chills and 
fever if used promptly. 

Section 60. 

Su7ishine in Houses. 

The time very likely will come when sunshine or sunlight 
will be so utilized as to be the entire remedy used for very 
many diseases. That it is a wonderful fertilizer none can 
doubt who know anything about it. But how many houses 
are constructed with a view to getting all the sunshine possi- 
ble, especially when so much is needed in winter and sum- 
mer? The living or sitting room at these seasons of the year 
should have full southern exposure, with large windows to let 
in the sunshine. All the sleeping rooms, closets, wardrobes, 
and passage ways, should receive the cleansing, vivifying in- 
fluence of the sun. 

Sickly persons should court the sunshine as much as possi- 
ble ; sit in it, lie in it, luxurate in it. It dosen't cost anything 
only appreciation. A room warmed neither by sun nor fire 
is unhealthy, and not fit for human habitation. It is a poor 
theory that sends men, women, and children off into a cold 
room to sleep, on healthy principles, when warmth has been 
excluded for a day or week, or perhaps months. The change 
in the temperature of a room having both fire and sunshine, 
after the sun goes down is exceedingly marked. A precep- 
tible chill is felt. 



15 

Section 61. 
All about JEggs. 
A writer in the Medical Journal, discoursing on dyspep- 
sia, says : We have seen dyspeptics who have suffered untold 
torments with almost every kind of food, and torments of 
which they did tell after some medicines given for relief. 
No liquid could be taken without suffering. Bread became 
a burning acid. Meat and milk were solid and liquid fires. 
We have seen these same suffei'ers trying to avoid food and 
drink, and even going to the enema syringe for sustenance. 
And we have seen their torments pass away and their hunger 
relieved by living upon the white of eggs, which had been 
boiled in bubbling water for thirty minutes. At the end of a 
week we have given the hard yolk of the Qg^ with the white, 
and upon this diet alone, without fluid of any kind, we have 
seen them begin to gain flesh, and strength, and refieshing 
sleep. After weeks of this treatment they have been able, 
with care, to begin upon other food. And all this, the writer 
adds, without taking medicine. He says that hard-boiled 
eggs are not half so bad as half-boiled ones, and ten times as 
easy to digest as raw eggs, even in egg-nog. 

Section 62. 
• Since diptheria has become so prevalent, it is said that one 
of the most successful remedies is a few drops of sulphuric 
acid in a tumblerful of water. The result of this mixture is 
said to be a coagulation of the diptheritic membrane and its 
ready removal by coughing. 

Section 63. 
A gentleman who has tried it, recommends as a gargle for 
diptheria, the following: Take a piece of red oak bark about 
the size of the hand, a large grasp of sage leaves, put in one 
pint of water, boil down to a half-pint ; then add one tea- 
spoonful of pulverized alum, and one teaspoonful of pulverized 
borax, then add enough honey to make it very sweet, and use 
as a gargle every half hour, swallowing a little at the same 
time to be sure it reaches the affected parts. 

Section 64. 
If a person in a house on fire has the presence of mind to 
apply a wet cloth or handkerchief to his mouth or his nos- 
trils, a passage can then be eftected through the densest smoke 
without any serious inconvenience. 

Section 65. 
How to prevent Sleeplessness, 
This unpleasant condition may often be remedied by rub- 
bing all parts of the body and limbs. Take a crash towel, 



16 

and give it a lively motion in rubbing downward from the 
head, until the blood is put in lively circulation, rubbing 
hardest upon the chest. 

Section 66. 
A secret remedy of rav.ch efficacy for Gravel. 
A hare caught in the month of March — you must burn with 
skin and hair until it becomes powder. Take bruised seed of 
parsley, add honey enough to make a syrup. Give to the 
patient early in the morning before breakfast and at night 
before going to bed. The gravel will break and cease for 
ever. 

Section 67. 
1^'or bad hearing. 
Take the oil with which the bells of churches are greased, 
and smtar it behind the aifected ears, and relief will not fail 
to come at once. 

Section 68. 
7<> J*ass the Afterbirth. 
Take linseed oil, hempseed oil, two ounces of each, and 
three- four yolks (»f eggs. Stir well in a dish, smear upon a 
cloth, and lay it upon the woman's belly. Most excellent. 

Section 69. 

For Fr 'Z ')i [lands or Feet. 

When feet are frozen or a person has other frozen limbs, 

let them mix turpentine with salt until it .becomes a salve; 

this apply twice per day, regular, for several days in succes 

sion to the frozen parts, Jt is an efficacious remedy. 

Section 70. 
Blood tStopping. 
For an injury, either caused by stabbing or cutting, an ap 
proved stop))ing of the blood is to let thirty or forty drops of. 
oil of turpentine trickle into the injury. 

Section 71. 
How to make Ice Cream. 
Take tour quarts cream; sugar, two pounds; eggs, three, 
well beaten ; four teaspoonfuls vanilla or any flavor you 
chose. Put all in the freezer together, then pack up around 
your freezer with fine broken ice and salt, then turn your 
freezer and then when it begins to draw water, why, then 
your cream will begin to freeze, and after it is frozen draw off" 
the water and pack your stand full of ice and salt, and cover 
up close and put in a cool place. 



17 

Section 72. 
To Keep Eggs Six Months or one Year. 
Take good sound eggs, put them in strong lime water or 
pack them in dry salt. 

Section 73. 
For Catarrh or Felon. 
Take fourteen of the old copper pennies and two pints of 
strong vinegar, have your vinegar right warm, then take 7 
of the pennies and heat them through, then drop them into 
the first pint, and put your hand in as hot as you can bear it 
and leave it in until nearly cold, then have the other seven 
ready and proceed in the same way until your hand becomes 
all shrivelled. It generally effects a cure. 
Section 74. 
How to Make Herb Beer. 
Take five gallons lukewarm water, one quart and half pint 
molasses, one-lialf ]»int yeast, Yarrow hops and life everlast- 
ing of each^ one handful. Boil b.eibs and hops together, 
then strain, put all together in a strong, clean keg in a warm 
place, leave it stand fifteen or eighteen hours, flavor with 
sarsaparilla. 

Section 75. 
HoiCj to Stain Wood the Color of Wahiut. 
Take walnut hulls and boil them down to a strong liquid, 
apply with a brush and when dry rub with a woolen rag and 
then varnish. 

Section 76. 
Cure for a Sore Mouth. 
Take finely powdered brimstone an<l rub your mouth with 
it. 

Section 77. 
l^or Cough or Lung Diseases. 
One tablespoonful of good brandy and two of loaf sugar in 
a cupful of milk fresh from the cow every morning. 

Section 78. 
Cure for Dyspepsia. 
Take as much fine salt as will lie on the point of a knife 
every morning until a cure is effected. 

Section 79. 
Another for Dyspepsia. 
Take as much baking soda as will lie on a three cent piece 
and wet it with gentian ; take it after breakfast. 

2 



18 

Section 80. 
Indelible Ink. 
Extract Jogwood one-half ounce, bi-chromate of potash 
twenty-four grains, prussiate of potash twelve grains, warm 
water one pint, mix. 

Section 81. 
Cure for Sores or Svnellings. 
Take the root of calamus and boil it down to a strong lye 
in water. Apply it warm. 

Section 82. 
Indian Scdoe. 
Dragon's blood J oz., Olive oil -J- oz., yellow wax ^ oz.. 
Burgundy pitch 1 oz., gum resin 2 oz., put all together in an 
'iron pan and dissolve over a slow fire ; do not leave it boil. 
To be used on any kind of a sore. It is an elegant remedy 
for sprained backs or sore breasts, also burns, boils, neuralgia, 
swellings, mumps, etc. Spread it on muslin, not too thick, 
and apply it warm. 

Section 83. 
To prevent lard from boiling over while rendering put in 
an apple or potatoe. 

Section 84. 

Certain Cure for Cold. 

Seneca snake root 10 cents worth, squills 5 cents, Allecam- 

paine root 5 cents, liquorice root 5 cents, and 1 quart water, 

boil it down to a pint and strain, then add 1 lb. loaf sugar. 

Dose 1 tablespoonful four limes a day. Keep in a cool place. 

Section 85. 
Cure for Diarrhoea. 
Take the juice of two lemons, then add as much white 
sugar as will make a syrup, to be taken as often as convenient. 

Section 86. 
Tetter Ointment. 
Laudanum 1 oz., sulphuric acid \ oz, nitric potas. 1 oz., 
vinegar ^ pint. Apply twice a day. 

Section 87. 
Cure for White Sioelling. 
Take J lb. red lead, ^ gill spirits turpentine, 1 oz. camphor, 
1 pint flax seed oil. Put all in a new earthen crock and boil 
slow. Apply twice a day. 



19 

Section 88. 
A Never Failing Cure for Whooping Cough. 
Take seven nails drawn from a horse's hoof, do not lay 
them down nor wash them, and have ready one pint of new 
milk ; put the nails into the milk and put them on the stove 
until the nails become thoroughly heated, then, when it 
becomes cool, it is ready -for use. In most cases one pint 
generally effects a cure. 

Section 89. 
A Remedy to Cure Sores of Lo7ig Standhig. 
Take 1 ^^^ and half its quantity in tar and a small quan- 
tity of sweet oil, mix well, and use until healed. 
Section 90. 
Gtire for Hystericks, 
Take the head of a pike that is caught in March, and pom- 
hot water on it, and give the patient to drink. 
Section 91. 
Another. 
Take white chicken dung the size of a small walnut, and a 
little of the herb penny royal, put all together in a bag and 
pour boiling water over it, and give the patient to drink. 
Section 92. 
To Extirpate Rats and Mice. 
Take habesia seed and throw it into the holes. This they 
eat with greediness, and certain death will follow. 

Take the head of a rat or mouse, draw the skin therefrom 
and put the head in the place where these vermin mostly 
congregate, and they will tly at once in great haste, as if they 
were bewitched, and never more return, for fear that it might 
be done unto them as to their dead kindred. 
Section 93. 
For a Ruptured Child. 
When a child is 'afflicted with rupture, grease it with lard 
from a fox, and the rupture will soon heal. 
Section 94. 
To Drive Aicay SiDellings. 
Take aniseed oil, turpentine oil, of all one-half an ounce, 
stir well and apply upon the swelling. It will soon improve. 
Section 95. 
A Remedy to Cure the Cough. 
Roast an onion, rub the soles of the feet therewith, and 
the ailment will cease; or take strong brandy, dip a soft 



20 

cloth therein, and wet the soles of the feet mornings and 
evenings. 

Section 96. 

JFor Gravel. 
Take herbum oviga aurea, grind to powder, give fhe pa- 
tient every morning a spoonful in an ^^^^ and let him fast 
afterwards four hours. The patient will urinate an hour 
thereafter, and after using this remedy for about ten or 
twelve days all the gravel in his kidneys will break and he 
will pass them without suffering any pain. 

Section 97. 
Cure for Burns. 
Take lard and soot and mix well. It makes an excellent 
salve for burns. 

Section 98. 

To Obtain Money. 
Take the eggs of a swallow; boil them. Return them. to 
the nest. If the old swallow brings a root to the nest take 
it, put it into your purse, and carry it in your pocket, and be 
happy. 

Section 99. 

To Drive avmy Bed Bugs. 
Take the scrapings of the hoof which the farrier cuts when 
shoeing a horse. Boil them well in water, with it wash the 
bedsteads or whatever may be infested with the pests. It 
has often been satisfactoi'ily tried. 

Section 100. 

Uoin to make Oneself Agreeable to All. 

Carry a whoop's eye on your person. If you carry it in 

front of your breast, all your enemies will become kind to you ; 

and if you carry it in your purse 3"ou make a good bargain 

OD all what you sell. 

Section 101. 
To Drive Aioay Nits and Lice from the Head. 
To drink powder of hartshorn dissolved in wine prevents 
the growing of these vermin on the head. If such powder is 
strewn upon the head all lice and nits will surely die. 

Section 102. 
For Gravel, a simple and effective Art. 
Irish herb boiled in beer and drank morning and evenings 
is a miraculous remedy. 



21 

Section 103. 
A certai7i Art to Kill Flies. 
Take sweet milk, add black }3epper to it ; mix well, and 
leave it for the flies to eat. All flies that partake of it will 
die. 

Section 104. 

To Extirpate Warts. 
Take blossoms of the walnut tree, rub the warts with them 
and they will soon heal. 

Section 105. 
Liquid Polish for Gleaning Brass, Silver, Gold, Gopper, 
TmiGare or Nickel. 
Rotten stone, oxalic acid, sweet oil, of each 1^ ounce, tur- 
pentine 2 ounces, rain water 1 quart. Mix. 
Section 106. 
Tetter Ointment. 
Red precipitate 5 drachms, corrosive sublimate 2 drachms, 
lard 10 ounces. Mix cold. 

Section 107. 
Remedy for Piles. 
Glauber salts 2 ounces, saltpetre 1 ounce, rain water 2 
quarts. Dissolve and strain. Dose for an adult — a wine glass- 
ful three times a day. 

Section 108. 

Dyspepsia Bitters. 

Quiac 2 ounces, cinnamon half ounce, cloves half ounce, 

saltpetre 1 drachm, rhubarb pulverized half ounce, orange 

peel 2 drachms, rum 1 quart. Boil slow, not long. Dose — 

one tablespoonful twice a day in muscat wine. 

Section 109. 

Eye Salve. 
Red precipitate 15 grains, oil lavender one drop, simple 
<ierate half ounce. Mix. Make ointment. Apply a little 
with your finger to the eyelids twice or three times a day. 

Section 110. 
Mortification Founder. 
Alum, flour sulphur, 'gunpowder, each 2 ounces, made 
right fine. 

Section 111. 

Worm 'Tea. 
Pink root half ounce, senna and manna each quarter 
ounce, pulverized rhubarb, 1 scruple. Divide in two. Make 
tea and give the child until it physics. 



22 

Section 112. 
Cholera Remedy. 
Tincture of rhubarb, tincture of camphor, tincture of 
opium equal parts. Dose for an adult — teaspoonful every 
hour until the pain subsides. 

Section 113. 
Corn Salve. 
1 ounce gum galbanum dissolved in about 2 ounces strong 
vinegar by a gentle heat, tlien add tar half ounce, diachylon 
plaster 2 drachms, verdigris and sal-ammonia of each 1 scru- 
ple. Make into a plaster. Directions for corns — bathe the 
feet well in hot water, after which put on a plaster about 
every 12 hours until a cure is effected. 

Section 114. 
Golden Tincture. 
Sulphuric ether half pound, alcohol I pound. Dose for an 
adult — from 20 to 40 drops. 

Section 115. 
Essence of Peppei'mint. 
Oil of peppermint half ounce, alcohol one quart, color with 
tincture curcuma. 

Section 116. 
Rupture Salve. 
Take black root and marshmellow root and marshmellow 
heart, of each 3 ounces, have all pulverized, then mix with 
water to a thick salve. Let it stand 4 hours, then add 3 
ounces fresh butter without salt, mix it well. Apply once a 
day warm. 

Section 117. 
Hair 'Oil. 
Take castor oil 15 cents worth and nearly half as much al- 
cohol, as oil flavor with bergamot. 

Section 118. 
JSffervesing Drink. 
Tartaric acid Ij ounce, cream tartar half ounce, water 1 
quart, sugar 1 pound, beat up the white of an egg with a gill 
of water and a tablespoonful of flour, put the whole in a pot 
and boil to a syrup. Then strain, and when cool add 1 
drachm oil of lemon. Bottle for use. Take of the syrup 
half gill to a glass of water, then stir quarter teaspoonful of 
bi carbonate of soda into the tumbler. 



23 

Section 119. 
Oil to Cure Sore Sprains, Outs, Bruises and Sore Throat. 
Take black root 1 handful, old bacon 1 pound, water 1 
quart. Cut the root and bacon fine, and boil it down to near 
a pint and when cool add oil of stone, oil of spike, of each 2 
ounces. 

Section 120. 
British Oil. 
Sperm oil 13 ounces, oil of amber, 1 ounce Barbadoes tar 
2 ounces. Mix. 

Section 121. 
Dr. Stoes Cure for Hydrophobia. 
1 quart strong beer, 1 ounce red chick weed, boil down to 
1 pint in a new earthen ci'ock ; then strain and dissolve 1 
ounce theriac in it. Then bottle for use. Dose for an adult — 
1 gill every morning before eating for three or more days. 
Children two years old should take near half the quantity. 

Section 122. 
Certain Care for Dropsy. 
Scraped horse radish 1 handful parsley roots and tops 2 
handsful, ground mustard 2 tablespoonfuls, squills half ounce, 
juniper berries 1 ounce, good cider 1 gallon. Put the whole 
together in a new earthern vessel in a warm place for 24 
hours. Then strain it for use. Dose — a w^ine glassful three 
times a day. All spirituous liquors are strictly forbidden. 
Section 123. 
Renovating Liquid. 
Take 1 quart of boiling rain water, half a quarter red bard 
English castile soap, half ounce spirits hartshorn, 1 ounce 
potash, and stir them together in an earthen pot and add half 
pint white whisky. Bottle when milk warm. 
Section 124. 
For Fain in the Side and Breast. 
Oil of juniper 1 ounce, turpentine 1 ounce. Dose for an 
adult 15 ch-ops 3 times a day. 

Section 125. 
To Drive the Mice A'uiay from Barns. 
Burn a rotten crab to powder, fumigate the barns with it 
and all the mice therein will die. 

Section 126. 
How to Stop Bleeding. 
If a person bleeds put both his hands into cold water; if 
this does not help let his hands and arms 'be immersed in 
water up to elbow and shoulder blade. 



24 

Section 127. 
To prevent bees from flyin£r away take the root of a blue 
lilly, put it in the beehive. Prohatwa. 

Section 128. 

For Freckles. 

When persons have freckles catch the dew that settles on 

wheat, mix with rose water and oil of lillies; with this water 

wash the face, it drives all the freckles away and gives to the 

face a fair tint. 

Section 129. 
In many cases of disordered stomach, a teaspoonful of salt 
is a certain cure. In the violent internal aching, termed colic, 
add a teaspoonful of salt to a pint of cold water; drink it and 
go to bed. It is one of the speediest remedies known. The 
same will revive a person who seems almost dead with a 
heavy fall, tfcc. 

Section 130. 
In an apoplectic fit, no time should be lost in pouring 
down salt and watei', if sufficient sensibility remain to allow 
of swallowing; if not, the head must be sponged with cold 
water until the sense returns, when salt will completely re- 
store the patient from the lethargy. 

Section 131. 
In a fit, the feet should be placed in warm water, with 
mustard added, and the legs briskly rubbed, all bandages 
removed from the neck, and a cool apartment procured, if 
possible. In many cases ol sevei'e bleeding at the lungs, and 
when other remedies failed. Dr. Rush found that two tea- 
spoonfuls of salt completely stayed the blood. 

Section 132. 
In case of a bite from a mad dog, wash the part with strong 
brine for an hour, and then bind on some salt with a rag. 

Section 133. 
In toothache, warm salt and water held to the part, and 
removed two or three times, will relieve it in most cases. If 
the gums be affected, wash the mouth with brine. If the 
teeth be covered with tartar, wash them twice a day with 
salt and water. 

Section 134. 
In swelled neck, wash the part with brine, and drink it 
also, twice a day, until cured. 

Section 135 
Salt will expel worms, if used in food in a moderate de- 
gree, and it aids digestion, but salt meat is injurious, if used 
much. 



25 

Section 136. 

Snl^yhur for Scarlet Fever. 

Dr. Henry Pigeon writes to the London Lancet as follows: 
The marvelous success which has attended my treatment of 
scarlet fever by sulphur induces me to let my medical breth- 
ren know of my plan, so that they may be able to apply the 
same remedy without delay. All the cases in which I used 
it were very well marked, and the epidermis on the arms in 
each case came away like the skin of a snake. The following 
was the exact treatment followed in each case. Thoroughly 
anoint the person twice daily with sulphur ointment, give 
five or ten grains of sulphur in a little jam three times a day. 
Sufficient sulphur was burned twice daily (on coals on a 
shovel j to till the room with the fumes, and, of course, was 
thoroughly inhaled by the patient. Under this mode of 
treatment each case improved immediately, and none were 
over eight days in making a complete recovery, and I firmly 
believe in each case it was prevented from spreading by the 
treatment adopted. One case was in a large school. Having 
had a large experience in scarlet fever last year and this, I 
feel some confidence in my own judgment, and I am of 
opinion that the very mildest cases 1 ever saw do not do half 
so well as bad cases do by the sulphur treatment, and, as far 
as I can judge, sulphur is as near a specific for scarlet fever 
as possible. 

Section 137. 

Cure for Ilydrophohia. 

The time between the biting of an animal by a mad dog 
and the showing signs of hydrophobia, is not less than nine 
days, but may be nine months. After an animal has become 
rabid, a bite or scratch with his teeth upon a person, or 
slabber coming in contact with a sore or raw place, would 
produce hydrophobia just as soon as though he had been 
bitten. A dose for a horse or cow should be about four 
times as great as for a person. It is not too late to give the 
medicine any time before the spasms come on. The first 
dose for a person is one and a half ounces elicampane root, 
bruised, put in a pint of new milk ; reduce to one-half pint 
by boiling, then take all at one dose in the morning, fasting 
until afternoon, or at least a very light diet after several hours 
have elapsed; the second dose the same as the first, except 
take two ounces of the root ; third dose same as the last, to 
be taken every other day. Three doses are all that is needed, 
and there need be no fear. This cure has been known for 
forty years and never known to fail. 



2Q> 

Section 138. 
Ho^o to Mend China. 
Take a very thick solution of gum arabic in water, and 
stir into it plaster of paris until the mixture becomes a viscous 
paste. Apply it with a brush to the fractured edges, and 
stick them together. The article cannot be broken in the 
same place. The whiteness of the cement renders it doubly 
valuable. 

Section 139. 
Catching Mice. 
A correspondent in the Jonrnal of Pharmacy says : 
"Having noticed mice in our seed barrels, 1 bethought me 
how I might trap the little intruders. I thought of saturat- 
ing a piece of cotton with chloroform and throwing it in, 
then closing the lid. On raising it again in a few minutes I 
would find that life had almost or quite departed. Having 
on one occasion left the piece of cotton in the barrel, on again 
returning 1 found three mice with their heads in close con- 
tact with it, and dead. In the evening I saturated another 
piece and placed it in the barrel, and on opening it the next 
morning, to my surprise I found nine dead mice." 

Section 140. 
Cure for JjOchJaw. 
A correspondent of the Scientific American recommends 
turpentine as a cure for lock-jaw. He says: "Let any one 
who has an attack of lock-jaw take a small quantity of turpen- 
tine, warm it and pour it on the wound, no matter where it 
is or of what nature it is, and relief will follow in less than 
one minute. Nothing better can be applied to a severe cut 
or bruise than cold turpentine; it will give certain relief 
almost instantly. Turpentine is also a sovereign remedy for 
croup. Saturate a piece of flannel with it and spread the 
flannel on the throat and chest, and in very severe cases 
three to five drops on a lump of sugar may be taken in- 
wardly. 

Section 141. 
A correspondent of the English Magazine says he has 
used the following recipe, with the greatest success, for the 
cementing of iron railing tops, iron gratings to stoves, etc., 
and with such eff'ect as to resist the blows of the sledge 
hammer: "Take equal parts of sulphur and white lead, with 
about a sixth of borax ; incorporate the three so as to form 
one homogeneous mass. When going to apply it, wet it 
with strong sul])huric acid, and place a thin layer of it be- 
tween the two pieces of iron, which should then be pressed 



27 



together. In five clays it will be perfectly dry, all traces of 
cement having vanished, and the iron will have the appear- 
ance of having been welded together. 
Section 142. 

Nerve Oil. 
Oil of juniper, oil of seneca, oil of sassafras, oil of stone, oil 
spike, British oil, Barbadoes tar, balsam, sulphur, of each 1 
ounce, turpentine 4 ounces. This oil is used for all kinds of 
sores or sprains. 

Section 143. 
Charcoal has been discovered to be a sure cure for burns, 
by laying a small piece of cold charcoal on the burn, the pam 
subsides immediately. By leaving the charcoal on for an 
hour the wound is healed, as has been demonstrated on sev- 
eral occasions. 

Section 144. 

For Scarlet Fever and Small Fox. 
Sulphate of zinc 1 grain, half a teaspoonful of sugar, fox- 
o-love digitalis 1 grain. Mix with two tablespoonsful of wa- 
ter ; when thoroughly mixed add four ounces of water. Take 
a teaspoonful every hour ; either disease will disappear m 
twelve hours. For a child smaller doses, according to age. 
Section 145. 
Fremium Cider. 
To make one gallon— take 1 pound of brown sugar, half 
ounce of tartaric acid, put on one quart of lukewarm water to 
dissolve the sugar and acid, then add two tablespoonfuls ot 
brewer s yeast, or double quantity of home-made, put all to^ 
g-ether in a gallon jug. Shake it well, then fill it up with 
lukewarm water. Let it stand in a warm place uncorked un- 
til the yeast is worked off, and it is fit for use when cold. 
Section 14(5. 
A Cure for the Foisou Weed which grows in Meadows. 
Pound some soot out of a chimney to powder and stir it to 
a salve with sweet cream, then spread it on plantain eaves 
and put it on the poisoned part. By so doing you will kill 
the poison in 12 hours. 

Section 147. 

Silver Wash. 
1 ounce of nitric acid, 1 ten cent piece, 1 ounce of quick- 
silver Put in an open glass vessel and let it stand until dis- 
solved, then add 1 pint of water and it is ready for use. 
Make it into a powder by adding whitening, and it may be 
used on brass, copper, German silver, &c. 



28 

Section 148. 
Stoug[hto7is Bitters. 

Gentian root 2 ounces, orange peel 1 ounce, red sanders 1 
ounce, rasped quassia, cinnamon, cloves and cardamon seed 1 
drachm of each, whisky 1 gallon, let it stand 10 days, then 
jam oiF the clear liquor. 

Section 149. 
Best Red Lik. 

Best carmine nacarat 2 grains, rain water half an ounce, 
water of ammonia 20 drops, add a little gum arable. 
Section 150. 
Small Pox Remedy. 

I herewith append a recipe which has been used to my 
knowledge in hundreds of cases. It will prevent or cure the 
small pox though the pittings are filled. When Jenner dis- 
covered cow pox in England, the world of science hurled an 
avalanche of fame upon his head ; but when the most scien- 
tific school of medicine in the world — that of Paris — pub- 
lished the recipe as a panacea for small pox, it passed un- 
heeded. It is as unfailing as fate, and conquors in every in- 
stance. It is harmless when taken by a w^ell person. It will 
also cure scarlet fever. Here is the recipe as I have used it, 
and cured my children of scailet fever ; here it is as I have 
used it to cure the small pox ; when learned physicians said 
the patient must die, it cured : Sulphate of zinc, one grain ; 
foxglove (digitalis), one grain; half a teaspoonful of sugar ; 
mix with two tablespoonfuls of water. Take a spoonful 
every three hours. Either disease will disappear in twelve 
hours. For a child a smaller dose, according to age. If 
counties would compel their physicians to use this there 
would be no need of pest-houses. If you value advice and 
experience, use this for that terrible disease. 
Section 151. 
Wounds, 

Every person should understand how to treat a flesh 
wound, because one is liable to be placed in circum- 
stances, away from surgical and veterinary aid, where he may 
save his own life, the life of a friend or of a beast, simply by 
the exercise of a little common sense. In the first place, 
close the lips of the wound with the hand and hold them 
firmly together to check the flow of blood until several 
stitches can be taken and a bandage applied. Then bathe 
the wound for a long time in cold water. Should it be pain- 
ful, take a panful of burning coals and sprinkle upon them 
common brown sugar, and hold the wounded part in the 



29 

smoke. In a few minutes the pain will be allayed and recov- 
ery proceeds rapidly. In my case, a rusty nail made a bad 
wound in my foot. The pain and nervous irritation was se- 
vere. This was all removed by holding it in the smoke for 
fifteen minutes, and I was able to resume my reading in com- 
fort. We have often recommended it to others with like re- 
sults. Last winter one of my men had a finger nail torn out 
by a pair of ice tongs. It became very painful, as was to 
have been expected. Held in sugar smoke for twenty min- 
utes the pain ceased and promised speedy recovery. 

Section 152. 
To Swae Coal. 
In these very tight times here is something suggested, that 
at least will be worth trying. By expending one penny you 
can make one ton of coal equal to three tons. One penny's 
worth of tar water will saturate a tub of coals with treble its 
original quantity of bitumen, the principal source of their 
heat and light, and of course, render one such tub of three 
times more value than when it was unsaturated. 

Section 153. 
Remedy for Croup. 
The Pottsville Miners Journal says: The "Old Moun- 
taineer" who has been a physician for sixty years, sends us 
the following cure for croup, which he says he has used for 
forty years and never known to fail : Take a teacup full of 
fresh garlic, chopped tine, and put it in a pint of whisky. 
They are ready for use in half an hour. When a chid shows 
the least symptoms of croup, wet flannel with the mixture 
and put it about the child's neck. Place another over the 
lungs. In thirty minutes the absorbents will have carried 
the medicine to the larynx, glottis and epiglottis, and the 
child is safe. Sometimes the mixture produces nausea and 
the patient vomits. So much the better. 

Section 154. 
Remedy for Di2}htheria. 
It is simply to spread common tar on a muslin strip, 
as you would prepare a plaster, and wrap it around the 
neck and glands of the patient. Kenew and supply 
fresh tar on the neck of the child once or twice a day 
and its life is assured. This is a very simple cure, and 
diphtheria is in almost every case fatal, we would advise 
those having it to try this remedy. There is nothing inju- 
rious in the tar, and therefore it can have no bad effect. 



30 

Section 155. 
Scarlet Fever. 
A BuiFalo physician, late of London, England, oifers the 
following method of treating scarlet fever, which he asserts 
is reliable, and, if faithfully carried out, will prevent death 
in four-fifths of the cases that might otherwise prove fatal. 
Scarlet fever should be treated by administering to adults 
one tablespoonful of brewers' yeast in three tablespoonfuls of 
water, sweetened, three times daily; and if the throat is 
much swollen, gargle with yeast, and as often as necessary, 
insist they should apply yeast mixed with corn meal as poul- 
tice. Continue to give catnip tea freely for several days to 
keep the eruption out of the skin. 

Section 156. 
To make honey pure. 
Take ten pounds good brown sugar, three pints soft water, 
three cents worth slippery elm bark, pulverized, dissolved in 
warm water; strain it, and boil until it gets a scum on, stir five 
minutes, then add three cents worth gum arable, dissolved in 
warm water, then add three teaspoonfuls vinegar to tartar 
it, then boil five minutes longer, then take it off and strain 
one and a quarter pounds pure bee honey in, stir well, take it 
off, let it get cold, it is then pure and fit for use. 

Section 157. 
A Good Plaster for a Secret Disease. 
Asafoetida, whale saffron, a bulb of garlick, a handful of 
house leek, mixed with the white of two eggs, put them 
upon a cloth and apply to the sore spot. 

Section 158. 
For Labor Pains or Falling of the Womb. 
Cut a rabbit's liver into small pieces, roast them well upon 
a turnspit, then powder it in a mortar, mix one ounce of 
white sugar, one ounce of ginger, one ounce of cloves, all of 
which must be pulverized. Give the patient one-half an 
ounce and no more, upon bread to eat, or give it in a drink. 
This has been often tried with great satisfaction. 

Section 159. 

It is not generally known that an effective i-emedy for neu- 
ralgia is horseradish. Grate and mix it in vinegar, the same 
as for table purposes, and apply it to the temple when the 
face or head is aflected ; on the wrist when the pain is in the 
arm or shoulder. 



31 

Section 160. 
A small dose of chlorate of potash, taken at night, acts as 
a preventive of diphtheria. 

Section 161. 
Valuable Recipe. 
A gentlemen who "knows all about it," and who had tried 
the experiment with entire success, recommends the followmg 
remedy for bunions and corns, from which so man> suffer 
daily Gbtain at the drucrgists five or six cents worth of salt- 
petre- put into a bottle with sufficient olive oil to nearly dis- 
solve W; shake up well and rub the inflamed parts night and 
morning, and more frequently, if painful. 
Section 162. 
Milk, it is now found out, a pint being given every few 
hours will check violent stoinache-ache and incipient cholera. 
Only Vou mustn't boil it, but heat it sufficiently to be agreea- 
bly warm. Typhoid fever, cruel as a tiger, is a disease tor 
which the doctors hav.e never been able to do much. JSow 
we are told that milk is an excellent medicine to give m such 
cases It nourishes, promotes sleep, wards off delirium, and 
soothes the bowels. The patient, both in typhoid and scarlet 
fever, is to have all the milk he wants. What with Alderney 
and other dairies, and the new medical discoveries, this peace- 
ful fluid is really looking up. 

Section 163. 
TTfrn to See Under Water. 
A correspondent of the Scientific American says: The 
Indians of North America do this by cutting a hole through 
the ice, and then covering or hanging a blanket m such a 
manner as to darken or exclude the direct rays of the sun 
when they are enabled to see into the water and discover fash 
at anv reasonable depth. Let any one who is anxious to 
wove this place himself under the blanket, and he will be 
astonished when he beholds with what brilliancy everything 
in the fluid world is lio-lited up. I once had occasion to ex- 
amine the bottom of a mill pond, lor which I constructed a 
float out of an inch plank, sufficient to buoy me up. Through 
the center of this float I cut a hole and placed a blanket over 
when I was enabled to clearly discover objects on the bottom, 
and several lost tools were discovered and picked up 1 am 
satisfied that, where water is sufficiently clear, this latter plan 
could be successfully used for searching for lost bodies and 
articles." 



32 

Section 164. » 

Another Method for cleaning Blankets. 

The Boston Journal of Commerce gives the following 
methods of cleaning blankets: Put two large teaspoonfuls of 
borax and a pint bowl of soft soap into a tub of cold water. 
When dissolved, put in a pair of blankets and let them re- 
main over night. Next day rub out and rinse thoroughly in 
two waters and hang them to dry. Do not wring them. 
But this is not the only domestic use to which borax may be 
put. Borax is the best cockroach exterminator yet discovered. 
This insect has a peculiar aversion to it. As the salt is per- 
fectly harmless to human beings, it must be preferred for this 
purpose to the poisonous substances generally used. Borax 
is valuable for the laundry; use one pound to about ten gal- 
lons of boiling water, and you need only about one-half the 
ordinary allowatice of soap. For laces, cambrics, etc., use au 
extra quantity of this powder. It will not injure the texture 
of the cloth in the least. For cleansing the hair nothing is 
bettei- than a solution of borax water. Wash afterward with 
pure water, if it leaves the hair too stiff. Borax dissolved in 
water is an excellent dentifrice, or tooth-wash. 
Section 165. 
Valuable Recipe. 

The Journal of Chemistry publishes a recipe for the de- 
struction of insects, which, if it be one-half as efficacious as 
it is claimed to be, will prove invaluable: 

Hot alum water is a recent suggestion as an insecticide. 
it will destroy red and black ants, cockroaches, spiders, chinch 
bugs, and all the crawling pests which infest our houses. 
Take two pounds of alum and dissolve in three or four quarts 
of boiling water; let it stand on the tire till the alum disap- 
pears; then apply it with a brush, while nearly boiling hot, 
to every joint and crevice in your closets, bedsteads, pantry 
shelves, and the like. Brush the floor in the crevices of the 
skirting or mop boards if you suspect that they harbor vermin. 
If, in whiihwashing a ceiling, plenty of alum is added to the 
lime, it will also serve to keep insects at a distance. 

Cockroaches will flee the paint which has been washed in 
cool alum water. Sugar barrels and boxes can be freed from 
ants by drawing a chalk mark just around the edge of the 
top of them. The mark must be unbroken, or they will 
creep over it; but a continuous chalk mark half an inch in 
width will set their depredations at naught. Powdered alum 
or borax will keep the chinch bugs at a respectable distance, 
and travelers should always carry a package in their hand 
bags to scatter over and under their pillows in places where 
they have reason to suspect the presence of sucli bedfellows. 



33 

Section 166. 

Bone Felon. 
Tlie London Lancet says : As soon as the disease is felt 
put directly over the spot a fly blister, about the size of your 
thumb nail, and let it remain for six hours, at the expiration 
of which time, directly under the surface of the blister, may 
be seen the felon, ^^hich can instantly be taken out with the 
point of a needle or lancet. 

Section 167. 
Nail in the Foot, 
To relieve from the terrible eflfects of running a nail in the 
foot of a man or horse, take peach leaves, bruise them, apply 
to the wound, confine with a bandage. They cure as if by 
magic. Renewing the application usually does the work. 
I have cured both man and horse in a few hours, when they 
were apparently on the point of having the lockjaw. The 
recipe, remembered and practiced will save many valuable 
lives. 

Section 168. 
'Vinegar Candy. 
One cup white sugar, one-half cup vinegar; boil till it 
crisps in^ cold water. This makes an excellent candy, and 
something beneficial also, as it is good for colds. If the 
vinegar be very strong, take a little less of it, and some 
water; but for us the strength of the vinegar never hurts. 
When done pour out on buttered ]jlates, and either mark off 
in squares an inch or two wide as it cools, or else, when cool 
enough to handle, draw it until it is nice and white, then cut 
it into sticks. 

Section 169. 
Chocolate Caroviels. 
One pint new milk, one cake chocolate, ^one-quarter pound,) 
one cup and a half of white sugar. Try this on a buttered 
plate, as it will not crisj) in water, and when done pour on 
buttered pans and mark off in squares with a knife as it cools, 
and then it will easily break when cold. They are very 
excellent. 

Section 170. 
An excellent Cure for Hysterics. 

Take one ounce bergamot, an equal quantity of catnip, 
about one table- spoonful of the white of dry chicken dung 
and burn three corn cores to ashes, put the whole into a 
bottle and add a quart of good spirits or rye wkisky, then 
place the bottle for nine days in the sun and shake it up once 



34 

every day, after which strain it in the decrease of the moon 
and put it again into the bottle. If a sediment still appears, 
pour off the clear fluid until it becomes quite clear. A wom- 
an afflicted with hysterics may take from 18 to 30 drops 
every two hours, and to a child having the colic, from one 
to seven drops, according to the age, may be given in a 
mother's milk. 

Section 171. 
A Care to stop Vomiting in Lying. hi Woman. 
Take a little catnip and make her drink it like tea. This 
will soori stop it. 

Section 172. 

A Cure for the Colic in Childreiu 
If a child has the colic, even to a degree that it can in no 
wise be quieted, take a little garden garlic, pound it and 
squeeze out the juice through a clean linen rag. Of this 
juice mix for a very young ciiild one drop with one drop of 
spirits or rye whisky and give it to the child in its mother's milk. 
To a child of three months old, three di-ops of each may given 
in breast-milk at a time. 

Section 173. 
^■1 Cure for Sore Mouth of Children. 
Take leaves of the flowers of red fall-roses, white lilies and 
sage, H handful of each, put the whole into a bottle with one 
quart good rye whisky and let it stand for three days. If 
you want to use it for a child's sore mouth, mix a tea-spoon- 
ful of the above in liquor with half a gill of March snow 
water and a tea-spoonful of honey in a tea-cup, then stir it 
with a piece of alum until the alum is deminished about as 
much as the point of a knife, now wrap a clean linen rag- 
around your flnger and wash the child's mouth with the 
above preparation once or twice a day. This will soon heal it. 

Section 174. 
A Remedy for Dysentery or Colic. 
Take about one ounce of the second bark of white oak, a 
little of the herb of pennyroyal, one ounce of knotgrass and 
one o-ill whortleberries, put it all into a bottle with a quart French 
brandy and let it stand for three days, after which you may 
take a tea-spoonful three times a day, for a grown person, 
but a table-spoon tul of sweet oil is to be taken in the morn- 
ing half an hour before the medicine is taken. 

Section 175. 
To Prepare an. Oil lohich vnll Cure any Kind of Wounds. 
Put one handful white lilies, a handful of red fall rose leaves 
and half a gill of peruvian balm tree buds, (the buds are to be 






35 

taken from the tree in the beginning of March,) into a bottle 
with a pint of rye whisky, a pint of brandy and one ounce 
camphor, expose it to the sun for three days, then take a pint 
of this liquor and mix it in a bottle with half a gill spirits of 
turpentine, half an ounce oil of spike, a table-spoonful brown 
sugar and half an ounce oil of stone, expose the mixture to 
the sun three days more and shake it every day. This will 
make a complete oil for healing. 

Section 176. 
A Salve for Healing, lohich Excels all Others. 
Take three red corn cores and burn them to powder quite 
fine, about 3 ounces of the excrements of man, (the latter to be 
put on a shovel and burnt to powder) half an ounce dragon 
blood and one ounce litharge, pound it all to a fine powder, 
then take half a gill of mullein liowers, half a gill young elder 
sprigs, cut fine, an equal quantity of parsley, a little comfrey 
root, some elecampane root and a small handful stinky Tom- 
flowers, put all the herbs together in a new cloth and bruise 
them a little, then put them into a pan, adding nearly two 
pounds fresh butter as it comes from the buttermilk and half 
an ounce rosin, stew it for a short time then take it off again 
and strain it well through your cloth into a bowl, next add 
one ounce of bees-wax and let it stand thus a little while 
lastly stii* the powder into it with a chip of pine wood, add 
half an ounce camphor and stir it till it is cold. If you have 
any sore, spread some of the above salve on a rag from a linen 
shirt, lay it on and keep it on for a half a day then take it off, 
wash the sore with some March snow water, mix with some 
of the oil as described in Section 177, and warm a little, put 
on another plaster and continue as before. It will soon heal up. 

Section 177. 
Another liemedy for Healing Sores. 
Put about a pound of unslacked lime in a bow^l with about a 
pint of March snow water, let it stand for twelve hours, then 
pour off the clear liquid into another vessel and add a little sweet 
oil or flaxseed oil. This will make a very good salve for 
burns. — And if you take half a gill of the lime water and mix 
it with half gill of tne oil described in Section 175, and wash the 
sore with it, you will find it very beneficial. 

Section 178. 

A Cure for the Bite of a Snake. 

If you are bitten by a snake, make haste to get to some 

running water and wash the wound until the following is 

prepared. A handful of plaintain leaves, of the small kind, 

is to be bruised a little and a small quantity of cinquefoil to 



36 

be added, then it is to be put in a pan with a pint of milk 
fresh from the cow, if to be had, and to be well boiled, after 
which it is to be put on as warm as you can bear it. If the bite is 
made by a very poisonous snake, apply another poultice at 
the expiration of an hour, and every two hours take a little 
of the mortification powder. 

Section 179. 
Another. 
Take bearfoot, split it tlie broad way it two, and tie it on. 

Section 180. 

Another. 

Boil about two pounds of chestnut leaves with as many ash 

leaves in lye, then put in your hand or foot as soon as it is 

sufficiently cooled off. If an animal, tie a good parcel of the 

leaves on the wound. 

Section 181. 

A Receipt for Cleaning Cider Barrels. 
First scald the barrel, then pour out the water, and put 
one pound unsclacked lime through the bunghole with nine 
or ten gallons boiling water ; bung it up well and shake it 
every ten minutes, leave the water in for a full hour, after 
which pour it out and rinse the barrel with cold water, next 
fill it up with cold water and leave it lay for 24 hours, then 
let the wat^' run out, rinse the barrel again and pour out the 
water entirely, lastly put a quart of apple whisky into it, and 
bung it up well. Thus you may leave it, till you want to put 
cider in, and do the same with all the barrels you intend put- 
ting cider in. 

Section 182. 

A Receipt to make good Wine from Cider. 

Boil two barrals cider down to one barrel, taking care to 
skim it well while boiling, put it boiling hot into the ban-el, 
bung it well and lay it up till March, then draw it off on a 
clear day in full moon, rinse tne barrel well with cold water 
and put in a gallon good Lisbon wine and one gallon apple 
whisky, before you fill it up again, then fill it up, bung it well 
and lay it up. The older it becomes, the better it will be, 
but it will not have a real taste of wine before the expiration 
of two years, although it makes a plesant drink. When two 
years old, it will be better than imported wine. 
Section 183. 
A Receipt for making good Cider that will not Ferment. 

Place a tub in a raised situation, so as to enable you to 
pass a bucket under it, put in the cider and stir good sweet 



87 

yeast into it, in the proportion ot one gallon yeast to three 
barrels cider, after it has worked thoroughly, draw it off be- 
low into the cleaned barrel and let it lay for two months, then 
draw it off on a clear day in full moon, rinse the barrel with 
cold water and put a pint of apple whishy into it, put the 
cider in again, bung it up well and leave it lay as long as you 
please, it will not spoil. 

Section 184. 
A lieceq^t for making Cider Oil. 
If you wish to make cider oil, put into the barrel as soon 
as it is cleaned, two gallons apple whisky, fill it up with cider 
and when you draw it off as directed in Section 183, add an- 
other gallon. Three gallons is sufficient to make one barrel 
of cider oil. 

Section 185. 
Another Receipt for making good Cider. 
Take a clean hogshead, without a head, bore holes into the 
bottom and put clean washed rye straw into the hogshead, to 
the height of six inches, also two bushels washed sand, next 
put in the cider and let it soak through into a tub. If treat- 
ed in this manner, it will not ferment and will remain sweet, 
but the straw and sand must be washed every day, otherwise 
it will become sour, and the cider will be spoilt. 

Section 186. 
A Cure for the Tetter. 
Take the root of Indian pen, (this herb grows in the woods, 
in limestone land only, has nearly round but indented leaves, 
and bears a white flower in April. The root is of a redish 
yellow, soft and not deep under ground,) and bruise it a little, 
then put it into a vessel and add strong vinegar. After it 
has been standing for some time, you may lay it on (the tetter) 
and keep it on about three hours, after which take it off and 
wash the tetter with your urine, then ^^\x% on a fresh poultice 
and continue the same every three hours. In the evening 
you ought to apply a fresh poultice and keep it on all night, 
take it off in the morning as soon as you are risen, wash it again 
with urine and put on a fresh poultice. If your own water 
is not strong enough, take that of a boy under seven years of 
age. This remedy will not fail of producing the desired 
effect. The before described itch salve may be used for the 
tetter, also as well as the salve for the cure for the poison. 

Section 187. 
A Michigan dairyman has lately published his method of 
packing butter. He has oaken tubs with heads at each end. 



38 

They are fourteen inches in diameter at the top, nine inches 
at the bottom, and sixteen inches high. In packing, a cambric 
bag is made to fit the tub. The butter is packed in the tub 
as it stands on the small end — the sack being long enough 
to extend above the edges of the tub — and is pressed down 
firmly until within an inch and a half from the top, when a 
circular cloth is laid over it, the edges of the sack turned 
over that, and a layer of fine salt placed on it. The head is 
now put in its place, the tub turned up, and the butter in the 
sack of course falling down to the bottom, leaves a space all 
around it, which is filled with brine through a hole in the 
small end. When full the hole is corked up tight. The 
butter floats in the brine and is eflTectually preserved from 
the air, and will keep for an almost indefinite period. 

Section 188. 
What to Do in Case of Accident. 

Professor Wilder, of Cornell Universit}-, gives tnese short 
rules for action in case of accident. It would not be a bad 
thing to cut them out and carry them in one's pocket-book, 
or commit them to memory. 

For dust in the eyes, avoid rubbing ; dash cold water in 
them ; remove cinders, etc., with the round point of a lead 
pencil. 

Remove insects from the ear by tepid water. Never put 
a hard instrument into the ear. 

If an artery is cut compress it above the wound ; if a vein 
is cut compress it below. 

If choked, go upon all fours and cough. 

For slight burns, dip the parts in cold water ; if the skin is 
destroyed cover with varnish. 

For apoplexy, raise the head and body : for fainting, lay 
the person flat. 

Section 189. 
Ifojy Beer. 

Healthy, easily made, and really valuable ; will keep six 
or eight months : three months after it is made it is almost 
equal to ale. This recipe is for fifteen gallons : Twelve 
ounces hops, six quarts molasses, ten eggs ; put the hops in a 
bag and boil them fifteen minutes in three pails watei' ; put 
in the molasses while hot, and pour immediately into a strong- 
ale cask which can be made perfectly air tight, and put in the 
remainder of the water cold ; let the mixture stand until 
cool, and then add the eggs, well beaten. This beer will not 
ferment in cold weather unless put in quite a warm place. 



39 

Section 100. 

Fruit (Jake. 
Mix 1 pound sugar, ^ pound butter or lard, 2 eggs, 1 teacup 
sour railk, ^ teaspoonful of cream tartar, 1 of soda Add flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Bake in thin layers in pie 
pans. When cold spread stewed. apples or dried peaches, or 
any kind of fruit, between the layers of cake. 

Section 191. 
To Color Purple or Lilac. 
For one y^rd of yarn or cloth dissolve one ounce cudbear 
with a gentle heat, in sufficient water to cover the yarn or 
cloth. First dip the yarn or cloth in saleratus water, wring 
out and put into cudbear; let it stand one half hour or more; 
if you wish a dark color, wring out and wet again in saleratus 
water; then again intu cudbear, with the cudbear and two 
ounces of alum. 

Section 192. 
Cuciirnber P Ickles. 
The old style of laying cucumbers down in brine, then 
when wanted for use soaking them out in a brass kettle to 
make them green, is tedious, and I think rather dangerous. 
Now, I have good, nice, solid pickles that were put down last 
summer, and the following is my method of preparing them : 
I pick from the vines, wash carefully, and when dry put them 
in good cider vinegar; tie a paper over the top of the jar; 
some seal them, but I have not. I like this way very much. 

Section 193. 
Pennyroyal and Potash. 
If mosquitoes or other blood-suckers infest our sleeping 
rooms at night, we uncork a bottle of the oil of pennyroyal, 
and these animals will leave in great haste, nor will they re 
turn so long as the air in the room is loaded with the fumes 
of that aromatic herb. If rats entor the cellar, a little powdered 
potash, thrown in their holes or mixed with meal and scat- 
tered in their runaways, never fails to drive them away. 
Cayenne pepper will keep the buttery and storeroom free 
from ants and cockroaches. If a mouse makes an entrance 
into any part of your dwellings, saturate a rag with cayenne, 
in solution, and stuff it into the hole, which can then be re- 
paired with either wood or mortar. No rat or mouse will 
eat that rag for the purpose of opening communication with 
a depot of supplies. 

Section 194. 
Remedy for Diphtlieria. 
In France lemon juice is in high repute as a remedy for 
diphtheria. As a local application it is preferred to chlorate 



40 

of potash, nitrate of silver, perchloricle of iron, alum or lime 
water. It is used by clipping a little plug of cotton vvcoi, 
twisted around a wire in the juice, and pressing it against 
the diseased surface four or live times daily. 
Section 195. 
Worth a IHal. 
If an ounce of alum be added to the last rinsing water in 
which clothing are put after washing, they cannot burn even 
if they take fire. If children's dresses were so treated many 
fatal accidents would be averted. 

Section 196. 
Cure for .Lu7ig Fever in Horses. 
Take sassafras root, burdock root, mullin root, and spice 
wood bushes, equal parts, and boil together. Give it to them 
to drink. » 

Section 197. 
When one of the eyes of a horse threatens to get blind, 
take wagon grease of a wheel that has been run, grease the 
eye of the horse with it. It helps and will maintain healthy 
eyes. 

Section 198. 
To Drive Avmy Vernmi from Hen Roots. 
Take sassafras bushes and put them all round where your 
hens roost. 

Section 199. 
Physic for a Horse. 
Take 1 quart warm water and make a strong salt brine 
and give it to him. 

Section 200. 

For Dlsteniper. 

Take 1 pint of foreshot or alcohol, 3 cents worth of asafuet- 

ida, mix ; dose, 1 tablespoonful 3 times a day for three days. 

Also, drop a little sweet oil in their ears. This remedy is 

certain if used in time. 

Section 201. 
For Bots. 
Take f gill turpentine and ^ pint whisky together. First 
give them 1 quart sweet milk and 1 quart molasses mixed 
together, and then the above articles. 
Sjection 202. 
thire for Yellow Water. 
Take 1 ounce copperas, 1 ounce alum, 2 ounces saltpetre, 
4 ounces ginger, 2 ounces rosin, 1 ounce camphor, pulverized, 
then mix Dose, I tablespoonful twice a day for three days; 
give water 2 hours after the powder. 



41 

Section 203. 
Cure for Horn Cattle. 
Id case of any sickness in horn cattle, make a strong tea of 
pennyroyal and pour it into them. 

Section 204. 

Hoio to Cure a Horse 'when Stiffle Slip2)ed. 

Take the horse directly above the hoof and raise his leg 

up as far as you can easily get it, and then give it a sudden 

jerk upwards, and that will throw it into place again. Then 

use some of the oils mentioned in the book. 

Section 205. 
Horse I^oicder. 
Antimoniam ^ lb., ginger i lb , copperas J lb., rosin J lb,, 
brimstone J lb., saltpetre J lb. Dose — 1 tablespoonful after 
watering in the evening, to be given in their feed 3 evenings 
in succession and then to stop for 3 evenings, and then give 
them again for 3 evenings, and after that once in a while. 

Section 206. • 
Cure for FoleniL 
Take the juice of rue or white glass, powdered finely, — it 
has to be fine as dust, so that it can be seived through a silk 
handkerchief; a quarter of a teaspoonful to be put in each 
ear of the horse, or nearly a tablespoonful of the rue. Now, 
when you put either of the above articles in the horse's ear, 
you must hold their ears shut until the article has gone down 
in the ear, otherwise they will shake it out. Now, when 
you have used one of the above articles two days, then take 
a sufiicient quantity of asenic to loosen the core, put it in 
with a quill, then close up the opening until it becomes loose, 
then you can pull the core out, then wash it with dish water 
and heal up with some of the oils. 

Section 207. 
Hoio to Stop Joint Water from Running Out. 
Take moss that has grown on an apple tree, and sage, 
equal parts, and boil it together and wash. 

Section 208. 

How to keep a Horses Boioels Loose and Purify his Blood. 

Give him one-half pound English salts in his feed. 

Section 209. 

Cure for Colic in Horses. 

Put tar in their throat. 



42 

Section 210. 
For Small Worms in Horses. 
Take chalk and alum, equal parts, pulverized. Dose, one 
teaspoonful twice a day. 

Section 211. 
Cure for Felon in Horses Eye. 
Powder white glass fine as dust and seive it through a silk 
cloth, blow into the horse's eye with a quill. 

Section 212. 
7b cure a Cough in Horses. 
Give one-half gill turpentine fifteen minutes before water. 
Give twice a week or more. 

Section 213. 
If a horse has eaten too much and is swelled, take from 
four to five pounds of fresh milk, mix a few ounces of black 
snuif tobacco in the milk, or, instead of tobacco, some vine- 
gar and ground leaven or yeast; give this to the sick animal, 
whereupon it should 'be slowly driven around. The horse 
will soon have an opening, and is saved in an easy manner 
from the disease. 

Section 214. 
"When a cow is costive boil linseed in water, give it as a 
drink to the cow; it will surely help. 

Section 215. 
When Cattle cannot Make Water. 
Take a good handful of parsley roots and of the herb 
itself cut fine, mix in water or wine and give it to the cattle. 

Section 216. 
7b make a Cow give a Good Supply of Milk. 
When a cow for the first time calves or while carrying a 
calf, give her half of the tail of an eel on half a slice of 
bread, and henceforth she will give milk in abundance. 

Section 217. 
Staggers. 
When a horse has the staggers take the white of several 
eggs, one quart of sweet oil, mix and pour it before feeding 
into the horse's throat. Probatum. 

Section 218. 
If a horse is costive let it take five cents worth of crabs' 
eyes atid in fifteen minutes the cure is effected. 



43 

Section 219. 
When a Horse does 7iot Eat. 
Rub its teeth well with pepper and garlic and it will soon 
eat again with great appetite. It is a good remedy. 

Section 220. 
When a Horse has Worms. 
Take vinegar and ^g'g shells, chimney soot and pepper^ 
mix all together, give it to the horse and the worms will all 
die. 

Section 221. 
When cattle are swelling up take a woman's gown and tie 
the cattle therewith. Prohatmn. 

Section 222. 
For the Windgalls in Horses. 
Take three ounces of rendered lard, one ounce of laurel oil, 
and one ounce of powdei-ed Spanish fly ; pound these articles 
and put them into a tin box, clip the hair carefully from the 
galls and put the plaster carefully thereon, tie the horse until 
the gall runs out so that the horse cannot tear it open with 
his teeth. Apply mornings and evenings. 

Section 223. 
How to Heal the same. 
Take two parts of wine and one part of sweet oil, boil 
well and heal the horses wounds after using the above 
remedy. 

Section 224. 
Celebrated (kxttle Povxler. 
Glauber salts, six ounces, cream tarter, two ounces, salt- 
peter, two ounces, withen root, one-half ounce. Dose for a 
horse or cow, feed the whole in three days. 

Section 225. 

Cure for Heaves in Horses. 

Assafoetida, saltpeter, camphor, alum, each two ounces, 

garlick, a handful, whiskey, two quarts in a jug, and let it 

stand about ten days, shake it frequently. Give a horse a gill 

three times a day. 

Section 226. 

C^ire for Ringbone. 

Shave the hair well off the part afllicted, then take 4 drops 

muriatic acid, quicksilver the size of a bean, 1 tablespoonful 

pulv. corrosive sublimate, and as much lard as will form a 

paste, mix well and spread on a cloth the size of the part 



44 

afflicted, and tie on well ; if it does not run or swell in 3 or 4 
days, put on a fresh plaster. After the bone comes out, wash 
out well with warm water and castile soap, then put on a rag 
well tarred, to keep out cold, then heal with either of the oils 
in this book. 

Section 22V. 

Cure for Minghorn. 
Oil of spike, oil of seneca, nitric acid, each one ounce, cop- 
peras, one-half ounce, dissolved in a gill of rain water, then 
mix the oils, adding the acid gradually : if it boils, add sweet 
oil until it cease, and so on until the acid is all mixed. Shave 
off the hair, apply once a day until it gets sore, after which 
apply once in two days until a cure is affected. 

Section 228. 
When a cow loses her milk, in such a case let her drink her 
own milk mornings before feeding and the milk will return. 

Section 229. 

Ho'io to stop Bleeding. 

When a horse bleeds so hard that the blood cannot be 

stopped, take sour vinegar and dip the horse's testicles therein. 

When a woman bleeds hard let her breasts be dipped into 

strong vinegar and the blood will cease to flow. 

Section 230. 
7'o remove Itch and Lice from Cattle. 
Proceed to a place where the oaks have been cleared and 
upon the stump, after a rain, you will find a yellow water. 
Take a quart of this water, which you may gather with a 
clean sponge or cloth, and pour to it a pint of herring sauce, 
such as remains in a cask or keg after the last fish has been 
taken out. All this mix, and with this liquid wash the places 
where the cattle are lousy or have the itch. Thus lice and 
itch are banished visibly. 

Section 231. 
Dogging Stock. 
Farmers, one and all, do not have a vicious, barking dog 
around your steers. A case has been under the writer's no- 
tice all last year, of a man who prided himself on his ability 
to manage his swine and stock with two curs that were not 
worth the powder to shoot them. What was the conse- 
quence ? The sows all had dead pigs ; the cows, in some in- 
stances, aborted their calves, or became so unmanageable as 
to be obliged to have their legs tied at milking-time. If ever 
a horse gets loose it remains so until tired down — the whole 
thing making every one on the farm cross and sour-tempered. 



45 

Remember the cow and the horse are quiet, confiding ani- 
mals, but get shy and vicious if any mangy mongrel is allowed 
to dog them home and dog them away, and here and there. 
Show an intelligent man another man's cows, and he will 
very soon show you the mans temper. 

Section 232. 
Liniment 
The b(ist liniment for cuts, galls, spavin, polevil, fistula, or 
any other of the exterual diseases that animals are liable to, 
is made by dissolving one ounce of pulverized corrosive sub- 
limate and one ounce of gum camphor in one pint of spirits 
of turpentine, put in a strong bottle. Apply with a swab. 
Section 233. 
A certain cure for Horses lohen Hurt at the Hoof. 
It mu8t be trodden three times with your foot right hard 
down the hoof. 

Section 234. 
Cure for a Short winded Horse. 
Put the dust of the currycomb in his feed always, it will 
keep him nice. 

Section 235. 
Take three pounds muriatic acid, one pound of spelter; 
melt the spelter over a coal fire, then stir it in a pint of water 
until it becomes somewhat fine, then put the spelter in the 
acid by degrees, then strain it through a linen cioth, after it 
is strained add as much cold spring water as you have acid. 
Let it stand in the open air about five hours. 

Section 23C. 
A cure for Milk Ftver. 
An experienced Chester county dairyman says that he has 
found coal oil to be a very excellent remedy for milk fever in 
cows. He first tried it some time ago, when one ot his cows 
was down with the disease, very much swollen, and no hope 
whatever of the animal recovering. He gave a third of a 
pint of the oil, and in half an hour the swelling began to go 
down, and the cow showed a decidedly improved appearance 
and took a drink of water. Giving the water he thinks was 
a mistake, as soon after taking it she became worse ; the coal 
oil was again administered and the cow got well. Recently 
another animal was attacked. This time he gave half a pint 
of oil, and repeated the dose every three-quarters of an hour, 
until the swelling began to go down, and the following 
morning the cow was standing up all right and could be 
milked, whereas not a drop could be drawn from her the 



46 

previous night. After giving the oil. and 'the animal gets 
better, flaxseed tea or gruel should be fed. 
Section 237. 
A cu7'e for the Wind Colic. 
Knock down a black chicken with the butt end of a whip 
and tear it to pieces as quick as you can, but if you can't tear 
it cut it open and take out all the entrails, then cram it down 
the horse's throat with the handle of your whip. This will 
prove a cure for the wind colic, so that the horse will never 
2^et it again. 

Section 238. " 
Another. 
Put a good handful of aspen bark into an iron pot with 
two quarts of water and boil it down to one quart, then pour 
it oif into another vessel and let it stand till it becomes milk- 
warm. You may then pour it down the horse's throat, al- 
ways observing the rules above given. 

Section 239. 
Another. 
Put into a bottle half a pint of whisky, a little vinegar and 
a little scraped chalk, then blow the smoke of a lighted se- 
gar into the bottle, put your hand over and shake it, repeat 
the same operation till the segar is neai-]y all smoked, taking- 
care to keep your hand on the bottle to prevent the escape of 
the smoke, and to shake it well. After it has become milk- 
warm pour it down the hoi'se's throat. 

Section 240. 
To cure a Horse in Tiro or Three Days of a Sore received 
from Pressure^ or of any other Sure. 
Boil one handful of the inner bark of white oak and some 
comfrey in three quarts of good lye until it is boiled down to 
two quarts, then take it from the lire and pour the liquid off 
into an earthen pot, adding four ounces of alum ; now let it 
stand till it is lukewarm, then stir it up well and wash the 
horse three times a day, lastly, mix some oil ol spike a]id oil 
of stone together and grease the horse with it, every time 
after he has been washed. 

Section 241. 
A never-failing Salve for the Sweeny, for Man as ivell 

as jBeast. 

The above salve ought always to be made on the third day 

in the increase of the moon, and the tirst application to be 

made on that day, after which it is to be renewed daily, until 

the salve is done. The affected part ought to be warmed 



near a stove, while the applic^atiou is made. If used on a 
horse, he ought to be placed in the sun in summer, but in 
winter, a heated iron is to be held near the diseased part, 
while the salve is put on, taking care not to come too near 
him with the hot iron, for fear of buruicg the skin, which, 
w^ould cause the hair to come out. I'he preparation of the 
salve is as follows: 

For a grown person, take three chicken eggs, newly laid, 
and a full quarter of a pound fresh butter, as taken from the 
buttermilk, half a gill oil of stone and half a gill oil of spike. 
For a child of twelve years, only two eggs are to be taken, 
and of the other ingredients in proportion. For a hoi'se take 
four eggs, three -fourths of a gill of oil of stone, an equal 
quantity of oil of spike, and butter in proportion. In making 
the salve, break the eggs into a bowl or earthen vessel coi> 
taining nearly a quart, then with a chip of pine wood stir the 
eggs well in the bowl, nvsh the butter in a pan without let- 
ting it get hot aud add it to the eggs, stirring the mixture 
thoroughly, lastly add the oil of stone and the oil of spike, 
and after stiring the whole once more together, the salve will 
be done. 

This salve will always effect a cure, if rightly made and 
properly used, but it is to be observed that sometimes a horse 
has strained himself so as to have clotted blood under his 
shoulder-blade, and that one portion of salve is not sufficient 
to remove it, in which case the sweeny may return in two 
months, but another portion will positively effect a cure.' 

Section 242. 
7\) cure an Animal of the Bite of a Mad Dog. 

Take one ounce saltpeter, copper filings, as much as the 
weight of a cent, and three ounces red chickweed, make it 
into a powder and give it to each head of cattle that has been 
bitten, in three equal portions, for three mornings in succes- 
sion, before they are taken to pasture. Take a handful of 
chopt' corn for each head of cattle, soak it well in water made 
strong with liops and put the powder into it, after which ^nve 
it to the cattle to lick up. A larger quantity of chopt corn 
may be given if thought proper. 

If the above remedy is used, there is no danger that they 
will get mad. For hogs take chopt corn and work it into a 
stiff dough with tne powder, make it into litttle balls as large 
as a walnut and give it to them. In the evening give to the 
bitten animal a teaspoonful of the mortification powder, 
mixed up with corn-chop and moistened with vinegar. 



48 

Section 243. 

A cure for the Bots. 

Pour a full half pint of sweet oil into him. This is the 

best remedy that can be used ^"or the bots. A gill of spirits 

of turpentine is good also for the bots, but sweet oil is far 

superior. 

Section 244. 
A Remedy to ^yyeveiit Cattle from getting Holloic Horns. 
Make the sweeny salve, as described in section 241, on the 
third day of new moon in May, and grease the animal behind 
the horns and all alonsj the back bone to the tail, for three 
days in succession. This will prevent hollow horns for one 
year, but if the animal has hollow horns already, bore a hole 
into them and pour in some of the salve, and grease him until 
a whole portion of the salve is used. This will effect a cure, 
and will also prevent the wolf in the tail. 

Section 245. 
A Remedy to prevent the Bursting of Cattle Jrom Eating 

Clover. 
Take tansy, ground ivy, and alum, pound it well, and give 
some oi' it to the cattle every Wednesday and Friday morn- 
ings, among salt. 

Section 246. 
.1 cnrefor the Prolapse of the Uterus in a Covi. 
If the uterus or womb has falen out, take some clean ashes, 
strew it all over the uterus, and return it to its place. This 
will make it stay. 

Section 247. 
Treatment of Overheated Horses. 
To one pint of water put one ounce of chloride of ammonia, 
one ounce sweet spu'its of nitre, one dram of tincture aconite ; 
give a tablespoonful every hour or two. 

Section 248. 
Chicken. Cholera. 
Mr. J. Davis, in the Rural World, an experienced breeder, 
says that kerosene oil is a cure for this disease. It may be 
administered in various ways, so that the chicken suffering 
with this disease eats of the food mixed with a plentiful 
quantity of the above oil. The writer positively asserts that 
it is the most efficacious remedy he has ever applied, and 
vouches for its infallibility in effecting a speedy cure of this 
ravaging disease. This remedy being so simple, and within 
the ready reach of all our farmers and poultry breeders, will 
be of no little importance to be in possession of, and is well 



49 

worthy a trial — for only by trying different remedies are we 
enabled to continually diseovcr new an<l more valual>le cures 
for the various diseases that <nir poultry is subject to. Often- 
times the most simple remedies have been found the most 
efficient in eradicating numerous diseases. 

Section 249. 
A Receipt to Drive Weavlls frouh a Barn. 
Sweep your barn right clean on the third day in new 
moon before harvest, then take a handful of hops and three 
handfuls of hoarhound, an equal quaiitity of camomile nnd a 
full quart of fresh sheeps dung, ])Ut it all into a kettle full of 
water and boil it well, lastl}^ pour it into a sprinkling pot and 
sprinkle your barn all over, as also the cracks, in which tiie 
weaviis are. Besides this, let your wife bake some cakes in. 
hogs lard on shrove Tuesday, keep the lard till harvest when 
the grain is to be hauler! in, and grease the wagon and the 
grain fork with it. By so doing you will not be troubled 
with mice nor weaviis. 

Section 250. 
A cure for a Horse that is Foundered. 
Melt a pint of hogs lard in a pan, then pour it into another 
vessel and stir half a pint of milk into it, fresh from the cow. 
Thus give it to the horse This remedy ought to be used as 
soon 9S it is found that the horse is foutideied. \\y doing so 
you may work the horse as usual: it will not l;urt him. 

Section 2^A. 
To cure a. Horse that is Orerheated. 
If a horse fall down from being overheated, give him half 
a pint flaxseed oil and half a pint hogs' lard mixed together, 
and wash him with fresh water. 

Section 252. 
One of the Best Cures ever discovered for a Horse which is 
in danger of hecominti Blind. 
Cut a piece of new linen of the size of a quarter dollar 
through which pass a needle with a strong thread in such a 
manner that you can draw it shut, then put in three live 
spiders taken from three corners of the house, draw it shut 
and make three knots on it, after which tie it on the horse's 
forehead so that it hangs just above the eye, and leave it 
tliere till it falls off of Itself. If the eye is not internally 
dead this will prove a cure in every case. 



50 



zi<rr)Ex: 



Cv.re fo a Felon 166, 2 

the Bite of a Mad Dog 4 

Dropsv 122, 5 

Frostbitten Feet 6 

Uurns 7 

Stomach. &e 10, 11 

Consumption 12, 13, 14 

Warts, &c 16 

Toothache 21 

Pleurisy 23 

Polevil and Fistula 25 

Piles 49 

Boils 50 

Burns 52,97,143 

Cancer 54 

Catarrh or Felon 73 

Sore Mouth 76 

Dyspepsia 48, 78, 79, 108 

Cold 84 

Diarrhoea 24, 85 

White Swelling 87 

W hooping Cough 88 

Hysterics 9 >, 91, 170 

Gravel 66, 96, 102 

Hydrophobia 121, 137 

Lockjaw 140 

Poison Weed 146 

Stop Vomiting 171 

Colic 172, 174 

Sore Mouth 173 

Snake Bite 178, 179, i80 

Tetter 186, 86, 106 

Lung Fever 196 

Eyes 197, 252 

Distemper 200 

Bots 201, 243 

Yellow Water 202 

Horn Cattle 2j3, 224 

Stiffle Slip 2114 

Polevil 206 

Colic in Horse 20J 

Felon in Horse's Eye 211 

Cough in Horses 212 

Heaves in Horses 22 S 

Ringbone 226, 227 

Short-winded Horse 234 

u ind Colic 237, 238, 339 

Bite of Mad Dog 242 

Foundered Horse .• 251 

Chicken Cholera 248 

Retention of Urine 15 

Dysentery 30 

Chickweed, when to be gathered 3 

Catch Fish 28, 36 

Coughs or Lung Diseases 77, 95 

Catching Mice 139 

Cucumber Pickles 192 

Chocolate Caromels 169 

Healing Oils 24, 119, 142, 175 

Miscellaneous Receipts. . 129, 13J to 135, 
138, 141, 145, 149, 156, 157, 158, 161, 
■ 64, 165, 167, 168, 181 to 185, 187 to 
191, 193, 195, 216, 232, 231, 249, 26, 
34, 53, 59, 61, 7 1, 72, 75, 80, 1U4, 
lu5, 111, li4 



Poultices 18 

Remedy for Cholera 112 

Lost Hearing 20 

Nose Bleeding 43 

Rheumatism 47 

Fever and Ague 57 

to Prevent Sleeplessness6 

Bad Hearing 67 

Rupture 93 

Bugs, Lice, &c. .92, 99, 101, 
103, 12.% 198 

Piles 49 

Pains, &c 124 

Freckles 128 

Croup 153 

Diphtheria. .62, 63, 64, 154, 
160, 94 

Neuralgia 159 

Horse Diseases — 199, 205, 

207, 208, 213, 218, 219, 22o, 

222. 223, 234, 240, 247 

Cattle Diseases. . . 221, 233, 

244. 245, 246 

Receipt for Mortification Powderl7,110 

Fomentation 56 

making Herb Beer. .74, 189 
Effervescing Drink.... 118 

Hair Oil il7 

Renovating Liquid 123 

Wounds 151 

Salve to Cure Itch 1 

Indian 82 

Eye 109 

for (^rns 113 

Rupture 116 

Sweeny — 241 

Healing 176,177 

Staggers 217 

See under Water 163 

Scarlet Fever 15 • 

Save Coal 1 2 

Small Pox Remedy 15 

Stoughton's Bitters 148 

Si Iver W ash 147 

Scarlet Fever and Small Pox 144 

Sulphur for Scarlet Fever 136 

Sores and Swellings 94, 81 

Sores of Long Standing 89 

Sunshine in House 60 

Simple Remedy 5i 

Swollen Feet and Pains of the Skin .4=^ 

Stoppage of Urine 32 

Shoot with Accuracy 29 

Shot Proof 27 

Sweet Oil, how to Purify it 19 

Stop Bleeding 8, 9 

Stopping Blood 38, 70, 126 

Splendid Eye Water 41 



TESTIMONIALS. 



THE CHOLERA SCOURGE MASTERED. 



Mk. W. H. Todd — We received the two parcels of medi- 
cines and gave them a trial. The first day we had a fine hen 
down, so very low with cholera we thought she would die 
that night. We compelled her to inhale the fumes of thefu- 
mige and f«'rced the tonic food down her for two days, and 
to our astonishment she is now all right and perfectly well. 

A. J^revcntive mid liemedy for (Jholera^ Croup^ Cankers- 
Leg Weakness, IHarrhoe't, and all Diseases in which a 
tonic, is valuable. Prices — small sized trial package 25 
cents. Large sized, 50 cents. Sent postpaid by mail. Poul- 
try Nation, published the fifteentli of each month at Birming- 
ham, Erie county, Ohio. W. H. Todd, Editor. Terms, 60 
cents per year. Sample copies, 6 cents. 



OHCj^nS/dllPIOIN" 




CHEESE MILL 

OF THE PERIOD. 



xrn IS .^ <3-i^.^isr3D sttooess. 



A great chance is here oifered to men of energy and enter- 
prise^to make money and benefit the community I, there- 
fore, havin<r received Letters Patent, dattd Jan. 26, 1875, for 
a CHEESE MILL. 

SEE HERB] ! My Cheese Mill ; the single Mill answers 
for 8 or 9 different purposes. The Mill with two seives an- 
swers for 20 purposes. Now there are three sizes of the 
Cheese Mill, and every family should have one, in order to 
have a nice dish of Cottage Cheese. It can also be used to 
strain Milk or Cream, for parties making ice cream, and to 



strain Coffee, Tea, Lard, Tallow, Berries, Starch, Honey, To- 
matoes for Ketchup or Hop'^, and for making Yeast. It is 
also a desirable article for Liquor dealers, to strain Liquor, or 
for Painters, to clean Paint; and it can also be used to seive 
Sugar or Flour, and to measure Flour, from a quarter pound 
up to one pound. The marks are on the outside at the 
seam : the first mark being one-fourth of a pound. It is 
strong and durable, and nothing about it gets out of order, 
I also manufacture a Crumbier, to crumb Cheese for cup 
Cheese, and to mash all kinds of Berries for Wine or Jel- 
lies, and all kinds of Fruit and Vegetables for Sauce. It is 
the best selling article out, as every one is pleased with it. 
It invites a trade, and defies competition, and can be made in 
any tinshop, thus enabling parties purchasing Territory to 
have them made in their own immediate neighborhood. 
Every purchaser is furnished with patterns, and any infringe- 
ments on this patent will be prosecuted. 

Send $L50 or $L75 for sample Mill. For Mill 
with two selves, send $2 50 and I will send you 
one by express. Every one is warranted. 

First put the Milk and Cheese in a crock and mix it a lit- 
tle, then run it through the Mill, it matters not how hard the 
Cheese is scalded, it will become almost as smooth as cream. 

County and State rights for sale. For terms address the 
patentee, 

JACOB F. LANDIS, 
No. 414 Walnut Street, Harrisburg, Pa. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




014 184 220 1 IP 



