A BOOK FOR THE TIMES. 



} 



Hoitr fo ^M '^Jh^\^ mi WtW, 



Cookery.for the Million 



WITH — 




USEFUL HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES. 



** Good cooking means economy, i 

Bad cooking means waste." 

'' — London Times, 



■ if.' 



JPRICE, TEN CENTS. 



.;-if ■' ,■ 



MONTREAL : 
Wm. Drysdale & Co., Publishers, '232 St. James Street. 

1877. 



A BOOK FOR THE TIMES. 




our k 'Ijcc ^liltcapliJ mi WtW, 



Cookery for the Million 



WITH 



USEFUL HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES. 



" Good cooking means economy, 
Bad cooking means waste." 

— London Times, 



TRICE, TEN CENTS. 



•; » • e 



MONTREAL 



Wm. Drysdale & Co., Publishers, 232 St. James Street. 



1877. 



'i ) I '• n ,~r. 



o 



■a 



6 11 V 6 « 

O <i o 






b t' 



J, ' • fc' <1 <> o c 4 

" <" c 6 a r., " -1 o 



o la 



i> o 



''in 






TX 

06 



w 



B. Q. R.^ 



% 



IltTIDEiX 



-•♦- 



PAGE. 

A la Mode 20 

Apple Rice 39 

A Plain Christmas Pudding 42 

Bacon Pie 13 

Barley Soup 17 

Barley Broth 19 

Beef Soup 19 

Brazilian Stew 26 

Beefsteak Pie 27 

Bubble and Squeak 28 

Beef^s driyping, to clarify 28 

Bullock's Heart 29 

Bacon and Poached Eggs 30 

Boiled Bacon 31 

Bacou Omelette 36 

Bread Pudding ^ • 39 

Baked Rice Pudding 41 

Boiled Rice Pudding 41 

Bread, to make a peck of good 43 

Crowc'ie— a Scotch Brotli 16 

Chicken Broth 26 

Cornish Pie •*• » • 32 

Crust for Pies or Puddings 41 



71954 



4 

DonnoFR ^^ 

Drij)ping Criiar 42 

Economical Stew 20 

Fi8h Stew 37 

Fish Macaroni •• ^'^ 

Fish Pie ^^ 

Hodge-Podge 22 

Do No. 2 22 

Harricot 27 

Hashed Mutton y. 28 

Hams, to Pickle ^^0 

Hints to Housewives J) 

Invalid Soup 24 

Irish Stew » 29 

Liver and Bacon 35 

Meat Fritters 12 

Mutton Broth , 18 

Macaroni Soup 24 

Do Mutton.. » 2G 

Meat Cakes 33 

Meat Ragout 32 

Meat Rissoles 35 

Oatmeal Porridge *. 17 

Ox-cheek Soup 20 

Ox-Tail Soup 21 

Ox-Cheek 34 

Potato Stew 13 

;• "-• -■ • i- I, 



Put tU< . Cak \{\ 

PruKo Pudding IS 

Pea Soup 22 

Potato Soup 2o 

Pork CutletH '. 31 

Pig's Fry 31 

Pork Pudding 82 

Pork Pancakes 35 

Pickled Fish 3H 

Pan-cakes , 40 

Plum Pudding, baked 42 

Pote and Pans, selection and care of \) 

Quick Soup 25 

Rice Stew 17 

Rice Soup, No. 1 23 

Do No. 2 25 

Rabbit Stew 26 

Stewed Ox-teet 12 

Stewed Sheep's-feet . . : 13 

Stew Soup, No. 1 15 

Do No. 2 15 

Soup Maigre 16 

Sheep's head Broth 19 

Sea Pie or Pudding 27 

Sheep's Fry 33 

Sheep's Head 34 

Scrap Rolls.. 36 

Sausage Pndding .- 36 

Stewed Tripe.... 36 

Suet Dumplings 39 

Short Cruet for Pies 41 



6 

Tongues, to cure 30 

Toud-in-tlie-Holc 34 

Treacle Pudding 40 

Vegetable Soup, No. 1 14 

Do No. 2 14 

Do No. 3 16 

Yeaet, to make 43 



Richelieu Renal Mineral Spring Water. 

The Great Natuual Rkmedy for 

Bright's Disease, Diabetes, Dropsy, Inflammation of the BbidJor and 

Kidneys, Ilsieraorrhage from the Kidneys, Calculus or Stono in 

the Bhidder, Albuminaria, Irritnhllity of the Bhidder, 

with pain while Voiding Urine, (lout, Rheumatism, 

Indigestion, Dyspepsia, &o. Price, 30c. per gallon. 

For sale bv J . D. L. Ambrosae, H. F. Jackson and at Bartlett's 
Hotel, Chambly Basin, which is only a few miles distant from the 
Spring. Country orders promptly filled. Agents wanted. 

J. A. HARTE:, Driig$;i8t, Proprietor, 

400 NOTRE DAME STREET. 

SKEET WAX— The largest stock in the Dominion of materials 
for making Wax Flowers, will be found at the Glasgow Drug Hall. 

HOM(EOPATHY— A full stock of fresh and reliable Medicince- 
Also Humphrey's Specifics and Books always on hand. Country 
orders promptly filled. 

(ilasj?ow Drug Hall, 400 Notre Dame St., Montreal. 

TO MAKE PUDDINGS. 



Mix up the ingredients in a strong cloth ; put them on the simmer; 
then, start on the run for Cheapsidc, buy your FALL and WINTER 
CLOTHING; after which return ad libitum to find your Pudding 
done to a shade. In the event of your teeth watering at the result, 
you should have previously provided yourself with suitable Hand- 
kerchiefs at 

CHEAPSIIDE 
487 & 439 NOTRE DAME ST. 

UNDERCLOTHING, 

DRESS GOODS, 

MOURNING GOODS, 
MANTLES & DRESSES, 

TAILORING, &c., &c. 

A. A. MURPHY. 



8 

]V[c6IBBON^~(£ BAIRD^ 

Importers nnd (Jencral Dealers in the finest kinds of 

Wines, Liquors and General Groceries, 

Supplying families with the best of Goods in our line 
at Wholesale Prices a speciality. 

o 

Our Fine Klack and Ciireeii Teas 

are selected at places of }z:ron'th for our own special trade. Samples 
sent on api)lication. 

OUR IV. W COFFKE 

Is just the thing for those who want a really CHOICE CUP of 

COFFEE. 

Wli«it i\u VwhVw Analyst, Ih*. J. l?nker Edwards, says: 

"This is to certify that, at the request of Messrs. McGibbon & 
Baird, 1 have examined an original package of their N.Y. Coffee ; 
and upon analysis, I find it to be not only GENUINE COFFEE, 
but also a Coffee of very superior strength and flavor, possessing, 
as the result of careful roasting, a ^'try fine aroma." 

WHAT ( ITST()MI:KS S VY : 

"I candidly admit your N. Y, Coffee to be c(jual in every respect 
to the Coffee one gets in the Old Country." 

"Your N. Y, Coffee is very fine. Please send me three 41b. tins 
of it." 

'It is the only Coffee that I have got in this country that pleases 
me. Sends 12 lbs, by Express, as I can get nothing like it here, 
(Toronto,)" 

'* If you continue to supply such a nice article, you may be sure 
of getting lots of customer's here, as there is not a pound of decent 
Coffee to be had in Kingston." 

WHAT WE SAY : 

Our N.Y. Coffee will be kept constantly up to the high standard 
it has now attained. It is prepared and sold only by ourselves. 

McGIBBON & BAIRD, 

Branch, St. Catherine St. Wpst End. 221 ST. JAMES STREET. 



HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES. 



Referring to Cookery some one has said that the 
poorest people are the most extravagant. I'here is no 
doubt a great deal of truth in the remark, but it would 
be wrong to assume that the extravagance is always wil- 
ful. In most instances it would probably be found 
that the extravagance or waste was due to simple 
want of knowledge. This ignorance respecting the 
best method? of preparing food is, however, by no 
means confined to people in humble circumstances. It 
is found among all classes of society, and in E^irope has 
led to the establishment of Schools of Cookery which 
are attended by pupils from both the " middle " and 
*• upper" classes* No such schools exist in Canada, 
hcvvever, and even if they did, they would be prac- 
tically closed to those for whom this little book is 
especially intended. In compiling the following pages 
the object has been to show how persons of very 
limited means can have a large choice of dishes, which, 
while economical, shall be wholesome and savory. 
The directions have been given in the simplest pos- 
sible form, and if they are faithfully followed, failure 
cannot take place. Two other point's must be borne 
in mind : — the pots and pans must be kept perfectly 



10 

clean, and care should be taken when marketing, to 
select articles of good quality — a difference of a few 
cents often secures an article worth really twice the 
price asked for the so-called " cheapest." 

The following cooking utensils will be wanted — they 
also should be of good quality — a gridiron, a frying- 
pan, a couple of sauce-pans, a stew pan, a soup kettle 
and a stock-pot. This latter is one of the most valuable 
articles the housewife can possess. It is a large boiler 
with a close-fitting lid. Its place is on the stove, and 
its purpose is to furnish material for stews and soups. 
Bones and scraps of meat are to be put in this pot, 
which is then to be filled with water and brought to 
the boil. After that it may be placed where it will 
stew gently. From this pot, stock is to be taken to be 
used in place of water in any of the soups and stews 
described hereafter. Bones from stews, &c., are 
to be put into this pot. About every three or four 
days, the bones from which all nourishment has been 
extracted, should be removed. Excellent material for 
the stock-pot may be purchased at the butcher's for a 
few cents weekly. It is to be remembered that no 
vegetables are to be put in. 

The Canadian housewife enjoys a great advan- 
tage over her sister of the old world in the matter of 
stoves. The open range of the old country has to 
answer for countless spoiled dinners and any amount 
of discomfort. 



11 

With the close range of this continent there is no 
fear of a downfall of soot burying the frying-pan or 
gridiron ; no foul smoke can insinuate itself beneath 
the sauce-pan lid into the stew or vegetables ; with a 
good stove and ordinary care the housewife can cook 
surely, cleanly and comfortably. It is cheering to 
know that the cooking stove of this continent is 
steadily coming into use across the Atlantic. 

An average family is estimated to consist of six 
persons, consequently the quantities used in the recipes 
given in the following pages are adapted for that 
number. Where the family is .smaller, the quantities 
can either be reduced or the dish can be made to 
serve for two days. From an economical point of 
view, the latter course is to be recommended, the cost 
of preparing a meal for six or more persons being re- 
latively much less than where the same dish is cooked 
for one or two. 



The business cards in this little work are essentially 
representative. The several firms enjoy public confi- 
dence, because in their dealings with the public, the 
principle ever kept in view is that of supplying agenuine 
article, and the best obtainable at the price. 



CHE^I^ 



— AND — 



WHOLESOME COOKERY 



- .^.w^.r^ >^w"* 



NOURISHING AND SAVORY DISHES. 



•i._MEAT FRITTERS. 

Required. — Scraps of cold n:eat ; ^ lb. of flour, 2 
oz. of butter, whites of 2 eggs, y^ pint of water. 

Hojv to use. — Work the flour quite smooth with the 
water, add the butter just slightly melted, and stir in 
the whites of the eggs well beaten up. Cut the meat 
thin, season with pepper and salt, mix it with the batter, 
drop a small quantity at a time into a frying-pan of 
boiling lard, and fry for six or seven minutes. Brown 
both sides. 

With a cabbage and mashed potatoes this makes a 
good dinner for six or eight persons. 

2.— STEWED OX-FEET. 

Required. — Ox-feet, ^ lb. of rice to each foot, a 
or 3 onions, parsley. 

How to use, — Clean the feet thoroughly in hot 



13 

water ; cut them up and place in a stew-pan, with the 
onions cut up, rice and parsley and a Httle salt, cover 
with water and stew gently for three or four hours. 
This is a very nourishing dish. If placed in a basin 
and left to cool it will turn out. a stiff jelly. 

3.— STEWED SHEEP'S FEET. 

Required. — Four or six sheep's feet, some butter or 
dripping, a few onions, parsley, pepper and salt. 

How to use. — Clean the feet, take off the hoofs and 
remove the b^ack part between the claws ; put them 
into a frying-pan with the dripping, and brown slightly 
then turn all into the stew-pan, add water, and stew 
gently for three or four hours. 

4.— BACON PIE. • 

Required. — i^ lb. fat bacon, 6 onions, 3 lb. pota- 
toes. 

Hoiv to use. — Boil the bacon, cut into slices ; chop 
the onions, peel the potatoes and boil them in as much 
of the bacon water as will just cover them. When 
the potatoes are done, mash them, grease a baking 
dish, put in layers of potatoes and onions, and layers 
of bacon, covering the top with potatoes. Bake brown. 

5._P0TAT0 STEW. 

Required. — 4 lbs. potatoes, 2 quarts of any sort of 
broth, a dozen onions and a small piece of fat bacon. 



14 

How to use. — Fry the onions with the bacon, then 
put them into a stew-pan with the potatoes and broth. 
When the potatoes are cooked the stew is ready. 
With a Norfolk dumpHng, this will make a good meal 
at a surprisingly low :ost. 

6.— VEGETABLE SOUP, No. i. 

Required. — 5 or 6 carrots, 6 or 7 parsnips, 8 or 10 
potatoes, i^ oz. butter or dripping, 2 or 3 tablespoon- 
fuls of flour, a teaspoonful of made mustard, salt and 
pepper, the yolk of 2 eggs, three quarts of water. 

How to use. — Cut up the vegetables into thin slices, 
boil them in the water for two hours and a half, stirring 
often ; mix up in a basin the butter in mustard, flour, 
salt and pepper, with a little cold water, and stir this 
into the soup : "boil ten minutes. Beat up the yolks 
of eggs in a tureen and pour the soup boiling on them ; 
stir well. 

7.— VEGETABLE SOUP, No 2. 

Required. — Equal quantities of onions, carrots, tur- 
nips, a root or two of celery, sweet herbs, ^ lb. drip- 
ping or butter, i teaspoonful of sugar, 2 or 3 quarts of 
water. 

How to use. — Wash the onions,carrots, and turnips 
well, and cut up into stew-pan with the butter and 
sugar, stir them over the fire for ten minutes, not 
letting them brown. Then pour the boiling water 



15 

or stock over them, and add the celery, herbs and 
seasoning. Stew all for three hours, and flavor with a 
little ketchup. 

8.— VEGETABLE SOUP, No. 3. 

Required, — 6 potatoes, 4 turnips, 2 carrots, 3 or 4 
onions, 3 or 4 mushrooms, i or 2 roots of celery, i 
large thick slice of bread, salt and pepper, a little 
sauce and 6 quarts of water. 

Ho7i} to use. — Wash and cut up the vegetables, toast 
the bread, put all into the stew-pan, simmer gently for 
three hours, and stir until it is of the consistency of 
pea soup. It should be dark brown. If the vegetables 
do not pulp well by stirring, they may be strained off 
and pressed through a sieve. 

9.— STEW SOUP, No. I. 

Required. — Scraps of salt beef or pork, about 2 lbs., 
4 carrots, 4 parsnips, 4 potatoes, i cabbage, 2 oz. 
oatmeal, salt and pepper, 4 quarts of water. 

How to use. — Put the meal into the water and let it 
simmer for three hours ; add the vegetables, cut into 
thin slices, season and boil gently for one hour, 
thicken with oatmeal, or rice, if the latter is preferred 
boil it with the vegetables. 

10.— STEW SOUP, No. 2^ 
Required. — Scraps of any kind of meat not salted, 



16 

5 onions, i lb. rice, parsley, a few sweet herbs, salt, 
pepper and four quarts of water. 

How to us€--^\x\. the meat, onions, &c., up small, 
and simmer gently for two hours and a half. 

II.— POTATO CAKE. 

Required. — Cold potatoes, flour or oatmeal, (one 
fourth the quantity of potatoes), a little milk and yeast 
and a little salt and batter. 

How to use. — Mash the potatoes, and make into a 
paste with the other things, roll out about 1 }^ inch 
thick, grease the bottom of a dish, fit the paste in and 
bake it. This cake costs a mere trifle and is excellent 
either alone or with soups or stews. 

12.— SOUP MAIGRE. 

Required. — Vegetables of any sort, butter, dripping 
or lard, three eggs, water, salt and pepper. 

How to use. — Boil the vegetables till tender, pulp 
them through a sieve, add the water and stir in the 
butter, while boiling stir in the eggs, beaten to a froth. 
Plain boiled rice goes well with this soup. 

13.— CROWDIE— A SCOTCH BROTH. 

Required. — The liquor in which a leg of mutton or 
piece of beef has been boiled, }^ pint of oatmeal, salt 
and pepper. ^ 

How to use, — Make the oatmeal into a paste with 



11 

a little of the liquor over the fire ; stir it well into the 
remainder, and serve hot, with bread, potatoes or 
boiled rice. 

14.— OATMEAL PORRIDGE. 

Required. — Oatmeal, water, milk, salt and molasses. 

How to use.—^oA some water with a little salt in it, 
sprinkle oatmeal in slowly, stirring gently for 15 or 
20 minutes until it is thick enough. Pour it at once 
on to the plates from which it is to be eaten, and 
serve with cold milk or a little molasses. 

15.— RICE STEW. 

Required. — Some beef or mutton bones, a few pieces 
of smoked bacon, 2 lb. rice, 6 onions and a few herbs, 
pepper, salt and 3 or 4 quarts of water. 

How to use. — Break the bones and cut u]) the bacon 
small, put both into tlie water and simmer for two 
hours, skimming now and then, add the other things 
and bring to a boil, after which let it simmer for half 
an hour. 

16.— BARLEY SOUP. 

Required. — 2 lb. shin of beef, % lb. pearl barley, 
parsley, 6 onions, 6 potatoes, salt and pepper, 4 quarts 
of water. 

Hoiv to use. — Put into a soup kettle and simmer 
gently for four hours. 



18 

17.- -DORMERS. 

Required. — i lb. scraps of cold mutton, 4 oz. beef 
suet, pepper and salt, ^ lb. boiled ♦rice, one egg, 
bread crumbs, gravy or soup of any kind. 

Hoiv to use. — Chop the meat, suet and rice fine, and 
mix with pepper and salt ; roll like sausages in egg and 
breadcrumbs, and fry in dripping till brown. Serve 
in a dish with mashed potatoes round them, and pour 
on some hot gravy. 

18.— PEASE PUDDING. 

Required. — i pint peas, i tgg^ i oz. butter or drip- 
ping. 

How to use. — Soak the peas for a day ; tie them 

loosely in a cloth and boil gently for two hours, when 
soft, drain and mash them, adding the egg and butter 
with a little pepper and salt, replace in the cloth and 
boil gently for half an hour. 

19.— MUTTON BROTH. 

Required. — 2 lbs. mutton, 2 tablespoonfuls of groats, 
2 or 3 onions, 3 or 4 turnips, oatmeal, 3 quarts of 
cold water, pepper and salt. 

How to use. — Put the meat, groats and seasoning 
into a stew-pan and simmer, skimming often. After 
one hour put in vegetables, and simmer for another 
hour, thicken with oatmeal and eat with plenty of 
bread. 



19 

20.— BARLEY BROTH. 

Reqiiired. — 2 lbs. neck of mutton, half a teacup of 
Scotch barley, four or five turnips and six or eight 
onions, pepper and salt, three quarts of cold water. 

Ho7v to use. — Put the meat and barley into the water 
in a sauce-pan. Simmer gently for one hour and add 
the vegetables cut up small. Simmer for another 
hour, skimming now and then. 

21.— SHEEP'S HEAD BROTH. 

Required. — A sheep's head, a cupful of pearl barley, 
3 or 4 carrots. 3 or 4 onions, some parsley, 6 quarts 
water, pepper and salt. 

Ho7v to use. — Clean the head carefully and put it to 
simmer with the barley, skim it, and in an hour's time 
add the vegetables, cut up, and seasoning. Simmer an 
hour and serve. The broth can be used alone and 
the meat eaten as a separate dish with potatoes, &c. 
Boiled rice can be added to the broth with advantage. 

22.— BEEF SOUP. 

Required. — 2 or 3 lbs. of shin of beef, 2 carrots, 2 
turnips, a root of celery, a few cloves, a little thyme, 
and parsley, pepper and salt, 3 quarts of cold water. 

How to use. — Make several cuts in the beef and 
chop the bone ; put into the soup kettle with the 
water and let simmer for one hour, then add the vege- 



20 

tables and season to taste. Simmer for two hours. 
Some think it an improvement to fry the meat and 
vegetables slightly before putting them in the kettle. 

22.— A-LA-MODE BEEF. 

Required. — 2 lbs. legof beef, dripping, flour, 6 onions, 
3 carrots, 3 pints water, pepper, salt, and some chopped 
herbs. 

Hoiu to use. — Cut the beef small, flour the pieces 
well, put them with some dripping into a stew-pan 
over the fire until they are of a light brown color, stir- 
ring all the time ; cut the onions and carrots into 
small pieces and add them with the water and season- 
ing to the stew pan; cover the pan close down and 
let it stev^ gently for two or three hours. Serve with 
boiled potatoes and other vegetables. 

23.— ECONOMICAL STOCK. 

Required, — The liquor in which a joint of meat has 
been boiled, say 4 quarts ; trimmings of fresh meat 
or poultry, shank bones, &c., roast beef bones, any 
pieces of meat. 

Hoiv to use. — Let all simmer gently for five hours. 
Skim carefully ; strain the stock off and put it by for 
use. 

24.— OX-CHEEK SOUP. 

Required.- 'An ox-cheek, 2 oz. butter, 3 or 4 slices 
of lean ham or bacon, 1 parsnip, 3 carrots, 2 onions. 



21 

3 heads celery, 2 blades mace. 4 cloves, some savory 
herbs, 5 quarts of water, pepper and salt. 

How to use. — Lay the ham in the bottom of the 
stew-pan with the butter ;' break the bones of the 
cheek, wash it clean, and put it on the ham. Cut up the 
vegetables, add them to the other ingredients and set 
the whole over a slow fire for a quarter of an hour. 
Now put in the water and simmer gently till it is re- 
duced to four quarts. Take out the fleshy part of the 
cheek and strain the soup into a clean stcv-pan, 
thicken with flour and simmer. Cut the meat into 
small square pieces and pour the soup over it in the 
tureen. 

25.— OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Required. — 2 Ox-tails. 2 slices of ham, i oz. butter, 
3 carrots, 2 turnips, 3 onions, i head celery, i bunch 
savory herbs, 4 cloves, 3 small lumps of sugar, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, y^ pint beer, 3 quarts 
of water. 

How to use. — Cut up the tails, separating them at 
the joints, wash well and put into stew-pan with the 
butter. Put in half a pint of water and stir them over 
a sharp fire until the juices are drawn. Pour in the 
rest of the water and when boiling add salt to taste ; 
skim well ; cut the vegetables in slices and add with 
the herbs. Simmer for four hours or until the meat is 
tender. Take out the tails, skim and strain the soup, 



22 

thicken with flour and flavor with the ketchup and 
beer. Put back the tails, simmer for five minutes and 
serve. 

26.— HODGE-PODGE; No. i. 

Required. — 2 lbs. shin of beef, 2 quarts water, 2 
onions, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, i head celery, pepper and 
salt, thickening of butter and flour. 

How to tise.~^\x\.\k\^ meat and water in a stew- 
pan, simmer for a few minules and skim carefully. 
Add the vegetables and seasoning : stew till the meat 
is tender ; thicken with the butter and flour, and serve 
with turnips and carrots or spinach and celery. 

27.— HODGE-PODGE, No. 2. 

Re/tared. — 2 lbs. scraps of different sorts of meat, 
cooked or not, 4 lettuces, 2 pints of peas, 5 or 6 
onions, a piece of dripping or fat, pepper and salt, 
teacup of water. 

How to use. — Cut up the lettuces and onions and 
put them, with the meat, fat and seasoning, into a stew- 
pan with the water. Simmer gently for half an hour. 
Boil the peas separately and mix them with the rest. 
Serve hot, emptying it into the middle of a good dish 
of potatoes. 

28.— PEA SOUP. 

Required. — i quart of split peas, 2 lbs. shin of beef, 
trimmings of meat or poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large 



23 

carrots, 2 turnips, 5 large onions, i head of celery, 
seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water, any bones 
left from roast beef, 2 quarts of common stock, or 
liquor in which a joint of meat has been boiled. 

Hoiu to use, — Put the peas to soak overnight in soft 
water and float off such as rise to the top. Boil them 
until tender enough to pulp ; then add the above in- 
gredients and simmer for two hours, stirring occasion- 
ally. Press the whole through a sieve, skim well and 
serve with toasted bread. 

29.— POTATO SOUP. 

Required. — 4 lbs. mealy potatoes boiled or steamed 
very dry, pepper and salt, 2 quarts of common stock. 

How to use. — Mash the potatoes so that no lumps 
remain, and gradually add them to the boiling stock. 
Pass it through a fieve, season and simmer for five 
minutes, skim well and serve with fried bread. 

30.— RICE SOUP. 

Required. — 4 oz. Patna rice, i quart of stock, salt 
and Cayenne pepper, and pounded mace to taste. 

How to use. — Throw the rice into boiling water and 
lei it remain five minutes, then pour it into a sieve 
and allow it to drain well. Now add it to the stock 
boiUng and stew till quite tender, season to taste and 
serve quickly. 



24 

3r.— MACx\RONI SOUP. 

Required. — 3 oz. macaroni, a piece of butter the size 
of a walnut, salt to taste, some clear medium stock. 

Ho7v to use. — I'ut the macaroni and butter in boiling 
water, with a pinch of salt. When it is tender, strain 
off and cut it into short lengths and drop into the 
boiling stock. Stew gently for five minutes. 

32._COTTAGER'S SOUP. 

Required. — i lb. of bacon, 5 or 6 carrots, 4 or 5 
turnips, 3 or 4 cabbages, 6 leeks, 12 onions, pepper 
and salt, 6 quarts of water. 

How to use. — Put all into a soup.ketde and let them 
simmer gently by the side of the fire for five or six 
hours. Serve with plenty of bread or toast. 

33.--INVALID SOUP. 

Required. — i lb. lean beef, i lb. scrap of mutton, 
half a calf s foot, 3 oz. vermicelli or macaroni, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a litde allspice and a 
sprig or two of sage, three quarts of cold water. 

Hozv to use. — Cut up the meat into small pieces, 
chopping the bones ; put all into a sauce-pan with 
three quarts of water, and very gradually bring to a 
boil, skimming several dmes ; add the other things 
and let all simmer till reduced to two-thirds or a half, 



26 

then strain. This when cold will be a strong jelly and 
can be beneficially taken by invalids, either cold or 
hot. 

34.— CHICKEN BROTH. 

Required. — Get from the poulter's, necks and heads 
of chickens (often thrown away) also chickens, feet, 
some chopped parsley, pepper and salt, cold water. 

H&w to use. — Clean the heads, necks and feet, break 
the bones and put them into a soup-kettle, allowing 
one quart ©f cold water to every head and two feet. 
Cover down close and let it simmer gently beside a 
slow fire fof five or six hours ; then strain and add the 
seasoning. 

35.— QUICK SOUP. 

Required. — 2 or 3 lbs. of beef, lean, 2 carrots, 2 
turnips, some sweet herbs, pepper and salt, 3 quarts 
of water. 

How to use. — Cut the beef small, put all in a soup- 
kettle and simmer for an hour and a half It is an 
improvement to fry the beef in dripping before putting 
in the kettle. 

36.— RICE SOUP, No. 2. 

Required. — 2 lbs. rice, a dozen onions, a little fat 
and one tablespoonful of flour. 

How to use. — Soak the rice in cold water two hours, 
cut up the onions and fry them in the fat till slightly 



26 

brown, stirring in the flour. Put all in the soup-kettle 
and stir in as much water as will make the quantity re- 
quired. Let it boil till the rice is tender. 

37.— BRAZILIAN STEW. 

Required. — 2 lbs. shin of beef, some vinegar, onions 
and other vegetables. 

How to icse. — Cut the beef into pieces about \\ 
inches square, steep them in vinegar and put them 
with the vegetables in a stew-pan without any water. 
Stew gently for three or four hours, and season. This 
makes a capital dish. 

38.— RABBIT STEW. 

Required. — A rabbit, some slices of b.xon, i lb. 
rice, 3 or 4 onions, pepper and salt. 

How to use. — Cut up the rabbit and put it and the 
bacon and onions sliced into a stew-pan, add pepper 
and salt, cover close and let stew for two or three 
hours. Soak the rice for several hours, then boil it in 
a small quantity of water for ten minutes and stir it 
gently into the stew. 

39.— MACARONI MUTTON. 

Required. — Some slices of mutton, J^ lb. macaroni, 
sauce of any kind, pepper, salt, and a tablespoonful of 
vinegar, a little water. 



27 

How to use. — Put all together in a stew-pan, keep 
the lid on and stew gently for an hour and a half. 

40.— HARICOT. 

Required. — 2 lbs. of any kind of meat, pickled pork 
will do, 12 onions and 20 potatoes. 

How to use. — Cut the meat small, the onions into 
shreds, slice the potatoes ; put into a stone jar in 
layers, onions, potatoes, meat, with pepper and salt. 
Cover the jar with cloth tied down and a piece of 
board on top, set it into a sauce-pan of water over 
the fire and let it stew for about one hour after the 
water boils. This is capital with Norfolk dumplings. 

41.— BEEFSTEAK PIE. 

Required. — 2 lbs. steak, 2 or 3 onions, potatoes 
sliced, some flour. 

How to use. — Cut the meat in pieces, flour it, put 
in a pie dish in layers, seasoning each, cover with 
crust and bake. A little mushroom ketchup or half a 
cup of gravy may be added with advantage. 

42.— SEA PIE OR PUDDING. ' 

Required. — i lb. each salt beef and pork, potatoes 
and onions, a thick crust. 

How to use, — Line a basin with the crust, put in a 
layer of onions sliced, then the salt beef cut thin, 
jsliced potatoes, then a layer of pork and more onions ; 



28 

pepper well, cover with cnist, tie up in a cloth that 
has been well floured and boil for two hours. 

43.-~BUBBLE AND SQUEAK. 

Required. — A few slices of beef, either boiled or 
roast, potatoes and any other vegetables left over from 
a previous meal. 

How to use. — Cut the meat in small squares, also 
the vegetables, fry over a rather slow fire with a little 
dripping, taking care to turn often to prevent burning. 
Season to taste. Some think a chopped onion an im- 
provement. Serve hot. 

44.~BEEF DRIPPING, TO CLARIFY. 

Clarified beef dripping serves for frying and basting 
purposes. To clarify, put the dripping intp a basin 
and pour boiling water over it, stir well to let the im- 
purities wash over. Let it cool when the water and 
sediment will be at the bottom of the basin. Keep 
in covered jars. 

45.— HASHED MUTTON. 

Required. — The .remains of a shoulder or leg of 
mutton, some celery and savory herbs, 2 oz. butter, 
flour, some allspice and pepper, i onion. 

How to use. — Cut the meat in slices, trimming off 
superfluous fat and gristle. Chop the bones and frag- 
ments of the joint, put them in a stew-pan with the 



29 

• 

herbs, celery, 6 whole peppers and 6 whole allspice, 
cover with cold water and stew for one hour. Slice 
and fry the onion in the butter a light brown color, 
dredge in some flour to thicken and stir this in with 
the bones, &c. Stew for a quarter of an hour ; strain 
the gravy and let it cool ; then skim off all the fat and 
put it with the meat into a stew-pan. Flavor with any 
sauce and let the meat warm through gradually ; don't 
let it boil or it will harden. 

46.— IRISH STEW. 

Required. — 2 or 3 lbs. of breast of mutton, 4 lbs. 
potatoes, 4 large onions, i J^ pints of 'ater. 

How to use. — Put the meat into a stew-pan with the 
water and a little salt ; let it stew gently for one hour ; 
cut the meat into moderate size pieces, skim the fat, 
pare and slice the potatoes and onions. Put all in a 
stew-pan in layers ; first vegetables, then meat, sprink- 
ling a little pepper and salt on each. Cover close and 
let it stew gently for rather more than one hour, shak- 
ing often to prevent burning. 

47 .—.BULLOCK'S HEART. 

Required. — i heart ; stuffing. 

How to use. — Soak the heart for two hours in warm 
water, wipe it well with a cloth, cut off the lobes and 
stuff the inside with the following : i oz. suet, a tea- 
spoonful of chopped herbs, pepper and salt. Fasten 



80 

■ 

it in by means of a needle and coarse thread : tie the 
heart up in white paper and set before a good fire, 
basting often, as it has very little fat. Remove the 
paper and serve with gravy, red-currant jelly or melted 
butter. 

48.— HAMS, TO PICKLE. 

Required. — To a ham of 10 or 12 lbs., i lb. of 
coarse sugar, ^ lb. salt, i oz. Saltpetre, 3^ teacup of 
vinegar. 

How to use. — Rub the hams well with salt, and 
leave for a day or two to drain ; then rub well in the 
other ingredients and turn the hams every other day. 
Keep in pickle one month, drain them and smoke 
over a wood fire for three weeks or a month. 

49.— TONGUES, TO CURE. 

Requircd.^-Yox a dozen tongues, 9 lbs. salt, 8 oz. 
sugar, 9 oz. powdered saltpetre. 

How to use. — Rub the above well into the tongues, 
and keep them in the mixture for two months, turning 
them every day. Drain from the pickle, cover with 
brown paper and smoke them for three weeks. 

50.— BACON AND POACHED EGGS. 

Required. — Bacon and eggs. 

How to use. — Cut the bacon into thin rashers and 
cut off- the rind. Put into a cold frying-pan ; turn 



31 

two or three times and put into a very hot dish. 
Poach the eggs and slip them on to the bacon without 
breaking the yolks. Serve quickly. 

51.— BOILED BACON. 

Required. — Bacon ; water. 

How to use. — Soak the bacon for an hour or two in 
warm water if it is very salt, then pare off any rusty 
parts and scrape the rind. Put it into cold water and 
let it gradually come to a boil ; removing the scum as 
fast as it rises. Let it simmer gently until it is done 
thoroughly. Strip off the skin and sprinkle a few 
bread raspings. 

52.— PORK CUTLETS, 

Required, — Some cold roast pork, i oz. dripping, 2 
onions, i dessert spoonful of flour, ^^ pint of gravy, a 
teaspoonful of mustard and vinegar. 

How to use. — Cut the pork into nice sized cutlets^ 
trim off most of th€ fat and chop the onions. Put 
the butter in the stew-pan, lay in the cutlets and 
chopped onions, and fry a light brown ; then add the 
remaining ingredients, simmer gently for five or seven 
minutes and serve. 

53.-PIG'S FRY. \ 

Required.— \y2 of pig's fry, 2 onions, a few sage 
leaves, 3 lbs. of potatoes, pepper and salt. 



32 

How to use. — Put the lean fry at the bottom c^f a 
pie-dish, sprinkle over it some minced sage and onion, 
and a seasoning of pepper and salt ; slice the potatoes, 
put a layer of these on the seasoning, thdn the fat fry 
then more seasoning and a layer of potatoes at the 
top. Fill the dish with boiling water, bake for two 
hours or rather longer. 

54.— PORK PUDDING. 

Required. — i lb. of fresh pork, onions, apples and 
pudding crust. 

How to use. — Line a good sized basin with the crust, 
and nearly fill it with peeled apples sliced ; strew a 
very few slices of onions on top of the apples, and 
having out the pork into dice about half an inch square, 
fill up the basin with it and some more sliced onions ; 
press it well down, tie a cloth over the top and boil 
fast in plenty of water for an hour and a half. 

55.— CORNISH PIE. 

Required. — i lb. of pork or any other meat cut up 
into small squares, apples, three onions, sugar, crust. 

How to use. — Put into a large pie-dish the apples 
peeled, cored and sliced, fill up the dish with the meat 
and onions sliced ; sprinkle a little sugar over the 
apples, put on the crust and bake for about three 
quarters of an hour. 



33 

56.— MEAT CAKES. 

Required. — Any scraps of cold meat, J^ lb. of cold 
boil bacon to^every pound of meat, chopped herbs, 
one or two eggs, pepper and salt. 

How to use. — Mince the meat fine and mix well, 
season and make into square cakes with the eggs well 
beaten ; fry in dripping and serve hot. The cakes 
may be made larger by adding bread crumbs. 

57.— MEAT RAGOUT. 

Required. — 2 lbs. of any sort of cold meat, 6 onions, 
pepper and salt, spice, ^ pint of boiling water ; 3 
tablespoons of any soup, or i of ketchup. 

How to use. — Cut the meat into small pieces and 
stew it well, the onions sliced ; season well then add 
the water and soup, and stew all for two hours. 

58.— SHEEP'S FRY. 

Required. — Sheep's fry, parsley, 6 or 8 onions, 
mashed potatoes, teaspoonful of vinegar, mutton fat. 

How to use. — Soak the fry for a few hours in cold 
water to drain out the blood, parboil it, then cut it up 
into small pieces and put it into a frying-pan with the 
mutton fat, vinegar, and the onions cut up very fine, 
also chopped parsley. When done have ready a large, 
deep dish of mashed potatoes, make a hole in the 
centre, pour in the minced fry and serve hot. 



84 

59.— TOAD-IN-THE-HOLE. 

Required. — i^ of steak, i sheeps' kidney, pepper 
and salt. For the batter, three eggs, i ^int of milk, 
4 tablespoonfuls of flour. 

How to use. — Cut the steak small and the kidney — 
quarter ; put into a pie-dish with seasoning ; make a 
batter by mixing the flour gradually into the milk ; add 
the eggs well beaten, stir for about five minutes, then 
pour it over the meat, place it over a tolerably brisk 
oven and bake for one hour and a half. 

6o.— SHEEP'S HEAD. 

Required. — Sheep's head, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, 2 or 
3 parsnips, 4 or 5 onions, parsley, \ lb. oatmeal. 

Hoiu to use. — Clean the head, and let it soak in 
warm water to draw out the blood ; put it in a sauce- 
pan with cold water to cover it. When it boils, add 
the vegetables and season'rg. iiU' ing the oatmeal into 
a smooth paste before p ^ttiug i' in. Stir well, then 
close the sauce-pan and stew gently for two hours. 
Serve with boiled rice and potatoes. 

6 r.— OX-CHEEK. 

Required. — Ox-cheek, 3 onions, 3 turnips, 3 carrots, 
2 or 3 roots of celery, spice, sweet herbs, a little piece 
of butter, flour, ketchup. 

How to use. — Clean the cheek well and put in a 
stew-pan with the vegetables, spice, sweet herbSy 



35 

pepper and salt, let it simmer three hours, skimming 
often, take out the cheek ; melt a little butter in a 
stew-pan, add to it a teacup of the soup thickened 
with Hour, and a tablespoonful of ketchup, let it nearly 
boil and pour it over the cheek. Serve the cheek 
divided on a dish and the soup in a tureen. 

62.— MEAT RISSOLES. 

Required, — Any kind of cold meat ; bread crumbs, 
chopped herbs, one or more eggs. 

How to use. — Mince the meat, and stir well into the 
biead crumbs with the chopped herbs and the sea- 
soning ; and make all into a thick paste by means of 
th ^ eggs, which are to be beaten up ; then divide into 
balls or cones, which are to be fried a light brown 
color and served with mashed potatoes or boile^ rice 
or broth. 

63.— PORK PANCAKES. 

Required. — Scraps of cold pork, either fresh or salt, 
batter of flour, milk and eggs. 

How to use. — Cut the pork as thin as possible, 
make a good batter and dip the slices in it, fry on one 
side turn it over and pour more batter on it, and fry it 
a light brown. 

64.— LIVER AND BACON. 

Required. — Bullock's liver and a few slices of bacon, 
dripping flour, onions and parsley. 



36 

How to use. — Cut the liver into slices, and roll in 
flour, salt and pepper them, then fry till done, with 
the bacon, chopped onions and parsley. 

65.— BACON OMELETTE. 

Required. — 12 eggs, about a pound of bacon. 

How to wj^.— Boil the bacon, and when cold, mince 
it, break the eggs into a basin and mix the bacon with 
them, pour into a well-greased frying-pan and fry till 
the eggs are done. With dumplings, bread or potatoes 
the above will make a good dinner for six. 

66.-— SCRAP ROLLS. 

Required. — Scraps of any kind of meat, cooked, 
potatoes, flour and milk. 

How to use. — Make a crust, cut it into pieces eight 
inches by four, mince the meat, and spread over each 
piece, roll them up and bake. 

67.— SAUSAGE DUMPLINGS. 

Required. — i lb. pork or beef sausages, potatoes, 
flour and a little milk. 

How to use. — Make a substantial crust of cold 
mashed potatoes, flour and milk ; roll up each sausage 
in a piece and bake in a tin dish. 

68.— STEWED TRIPE. 

Required. -^^XY^Q^ a good few onions, sweet herbs, 
pint or so of milk, flour, spice. 



81 

Ho7v to use, — Put the tripe (prepared of course) 
with the onions, peeled, into a stew-pan with some 
sweet herbs ; add the milk and let it simmer gently 
for an hour or more ; rub an ounce of butter into some 
flour with the spice, pepper and salt and stir it well 
into the stew. Serve with boiled rice or mashed 
potatoes. 



FISH. 



69.— FISH STEW. 

Required. — Any sort of fish, oatmeal, cold water, 
a little thyme and parsley, pepper and salt, and a little 
sugar. 

How to use, — Clean the fish, boil so that you can 
remove the bones, or most of them, then stew gently 
for two hours with the herbs and seasoning. Take 
some of the liquor and mix into the oatmeal — about a 
quarter of a pound of meal to every pound of fish — stir 
this well into the stew and let all boil for ten minutes. 

70.— FISH MACARONI. 

Required. — Any kind of cold fish, free from bones, 
double the weight of macaroni, some grated cheese, 
butter or lard. 



38 

How to use. — Cut the fish into small pieces and mix 
with the macaroni, having previously well boiled the 
latter, season it and put in a flat dish with a few pieces 
of butter, grate some cheese over it and set before the 
fire to brown. 

7 1.- -FISH PIE. 

Required. — Remains of cold fish, without bone, 
bread crumbs, cold potatoes, chopped herbs. 

How to use. — Put a layer of fish at the bottom of a 
pie dish and sprinkle with pepper and salt and chopped 
herbs, then a layer of bread crumbs and cold mashed 
potatoes, another layer of fish and so on until the 
dish is full — the top layer to be bread crumbs and 
potatoes ; moisten with a little water, put a few bits 
of butter or dripping on top and set the pie in the 
oven to bake. 

72.— PICKLED FISH. 

Required. — Any sort offish, onions, vinegar, sweet 
herbs. 

How to use. — Put the fish into an earthen baking dish 
in layers, first fish, then chopped onions and sweet 
herbs, pepper and salt, then fish again and so on till 
the dish is full. Cover with vinegar and bake. 



39 

PUDDINGS & DUMPLINGS. 

73.— BREAD PUDDING. 

Required. — Scraps of bread crust or crumbs, milk, 
2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of chopped suet, an egg or two, 
'sugar and salt. 

Ho7u to use. — Break the bread small and put in a 
deep pie dish, greased ; cover with as much boiling 
milk as will soak it, in which has been stirred the 
suet, sugar and salt, when nearly cold pour over the 
top the eggs beaten up ; mix all well together, smooth 
the top, put a few pieces of butter or dripping upon it 
and bake. 

74.— SUET DUMPLINGS, (for Soups and Broths.) 

Required— ^\h. beef or mutton suet, ij lb. flour, salt, 
pepper, and milk or water sufficient to make a paste. 

How to use. — Chop the suet fine, add salt and 
pepper, stir in the flour and milk to make a stifl" paste. 
Make into dumplings the size of a teacup, flour them, 
tie separately in cloths, put into boiling water and 
keep fast boiling for \\ hour. Serve hot. These 
cost about \ cent each, and are excellent with any 
kind of broth or soup. 

yS.-'APPLE RICE. 

Required. — \ lb. rice, i quart milk, sugar, grated 
nutmeg, 8 or 10 apples, 2 oz. butter. 



40 

How io use. — Peel the apples, halve and take r^t 
cores. Put in a stew-pan with a little sugar and stew 
till tender. Boil the rice with the milk, sugar and a 
little nutmeg and when thoroughly done, ponr it over 
the apples : serve hot. This makes a good dinner for 
eight or nine children and costs but a trifle. 

76.— TREACLE PUDDING. 

Required. — i lb. of suet crust, ]/^ lb. treacle, \ tea- 
spoonful of grated ginger. 

How to use. — Roll the crust to the thickness of half 
an inch, and spread the treacle over it, leaving a 
small margin bare ; roll and join the paste well, place 
in a floured cloth and put into boiling water. Boil for 
two hours. 

77.— PANCAKES. 

Required. — Eggs, flour, milk, to every egg allow i 
oz. flour, about a gill of milk, yi saltspoonful of salt. 

How to use. — Be sure the eggs are fresh. Break 
each separately into a cup, whisk them well in a basin ; 
add the flour, salt, and a few drops of milk, beat to a 
smooth batter, then pour in by degrees the rest of the 
milk. The batter should be like thick cream. See 
that your frying-pan is delicately clean or the batter 
will stick. When hot put in a small piece of butter. 
When it is melted pour in the batter — about half a 
teacup to a pan five inches across. Fry for about 
four minutes on a quick fire, or until nicely browned. 



41 

78.— BAKED RICE PUDDING. 

Required. — A teacupfiil of rice, two tablespoonfuls 

of sugar, I quart of milk, \ oz. butter or two small 
tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. 

Ho7u to //j"^.— Wash the rice, put it into a pie-dish 
with the sugar, pour in the ilk and stir well. Then 
add the butter or suet. Bake in a moderate oven 
from one and a half to two hours. 

79.— PLAIN BOILED RICE PUDDING. 

Required. — \ lb. rice. 

Hoiv to use. — Wash the rice ; tie it in a pudding 
cloth, allowing room for the rice to swell, and put it in 
a sauce-pan of cold water ; boil gently for two hours- 
If the cloth seems too loose, tighten it. Serve with 
sweet melted butter, or cold butter and sugar, or stew" 
ed fruit, jam or preserves. 

80.— SHORT CRUST FOR PIES. 

Required, — To every pound of flour allow 2 oz. 
sifted sugar, 3 oz. butter, about \ pint milk boiling. 

How to use. — Crumble the butter into the flour, add 
the sugar and work into a smooth paste' with the boil- 
ing milk. 

8i.-^CRUST FOR PIES OR PUDDINGS. 

Required. — To every pound of flour allow 6 oz. of 
butter or beef suet, \ pint water. 



42 

JJow to use, — With a knife, work the flour and water 
into a smooth paste if butter is used ; if suet is used 
free it from skin and chop fine, tlien rub well into the 
flour, adding the water and working to a smooth 
paste ; roll it out and it is ready for use. 

82.— DRIPPING CRUST. 

Required. — To every pound of flour, 6 oz. of clari- 
fied beef dripping, \ pint water. 

Ho7ii to use^ — With a knife, work in the dripping 
gradually, adding dripping and water each time, after 
rolling the paste out. 

83.— A PLAIN CHRISTMAS PUDDING. 

Required. — t lb. flour, i lb. bread crumbs, f lb. 
stoned raisins, same of currants, same of suet, 3 or 4 
eggs, 2 oz. candied peel ; i teaspoonful powdered all- 
spice, \ saltspoonful of suet. 

How to use. — Chop the suet fine, wash and pick 
the fi-uit carefully, mix with the other dry ingredients, 
beat and strain the eggs, stirring in with suflicient 
milk to mix properly. Tie up in a well-floured cloth 
and place in boiling water. Boil at least five hours. 
Place a sprig of holly in the middle and sprinkle 
sugar over. Serve hot. 

84.— PLAIN BAKED PLUM PUDDING, 

Required. — i lb. flour, f lb. raisins stoned, \ lb. 
suet, pinch of salt, i oz. sugar, milk. 



^3 

How to use. — Chop the suet fine, cut the raisins in 
halves, add the salt and sugar, and moisten the whole 
with milk enough to make a thick batter. Bake in a 
buttered dish for \\ hour. When done, strew a little 
sugar over it. • 

85.— TO MAKE A PECK OE GOOD BREAD. 

Required. — A peck of flour, 3 lbs. potatoes, \ pint 
yeast, 2 oz. salt, 6 pints cold water. 

Hoiv to use. — Peel and boil the potatoes, while 
warm, beat them to a cream, add i pint of water 
and strain through a colander, add the yeast which 
should have been put in water the night before to 
take off its bitterness. Stir all well together with a 
wooden spoon and pour into the centre of the flour, 
mix to the consistency of cream, cover it closely and 
let it stand by a fire for an hour ; then add the five 
pints of water, milk-warm, with the salt and mix into 
a nice light dough. Let it remain about two hours, 
then make into seven loaves and bake for about \)> 
hours. This should make about 20 lbs. of good bread. 

86 — TO MAKE YEAST. 

An excellent substitute for brewers' yeast may be 
made by boiling for ^one hour, i lb. flour, J brown 
sugar, a little salJ:*^i%d»twD" galjons. 6f water. "When 
milk warm, place in a 'stone bottle aifd'cork it down. 
It is ready after s*tanding a^day. 'About a pint of this 
will be enough for four or five quartern-loaveS. ' 



44 

OH ! THAT WIFE OF MUiE ! 

She does insist on my getting for her one of 

CIiEHSimTENa'S 

COOKING STOVES ! 

Well, I cannot blame her, because they are the 

BEST WORKING, 

NEATEST IN DESIGN, 

And MOST ECONOMICAL 
IN THIS MARKET. 

FOR SALE AT 

19 & 21 VICTORIA SQUARE 

532 CRAIG STREET, 

586 ST. CATHERINE STREET, 

Branch Store, 83 SPARKS ST. OTTAWA. 



-0- 



FOUNDRY aid WOKfcS : 

172 to 179 WILLIAM. STREET, 

y .MONTREAL. 



I 1 1 



45 



Bedsteads 
and 

Chairs, 

Over 
100 Patterns 

Cheap for 
Cash. 



t>'i:- 




Bedroom 

Setts, 
Parlour 

Furniture, 
Spring Beds, 
Mattrasses, &.c. 
at low prices. 



AV. TETllS, Jr. 

DoixiiiiioiT FIJKNITURK gWAUKHOUSK, 
514 Sl 516 CRAIG ST., MONTREAL. 

S^S^A lai'uc axxortoK'nt of JiracJcefs, Fftricf/ Tahhs^ Foldlnn Chairti^ 
(('•f., <(c., suifdhlc for f/o/ldai/ (i'lftii. 



TRUNK MANUFACTURERS 

And U^ohrs in THAVIJLLINO ItEQUfSITES GENEIiALLY, 




SAMPL.K TRUNKS A SPKOIAIVrY. 



46 



BRODIE & HARVIE, 

Plo-mr lli©r#liam-i«,f 

And Mnnnfuctui'ri'H of 

BRODIE'S SELF-RAISING FLOUR, 

FAMILY AND I'ASTHY FLOUR, OATMFAL, aHAIIAM 
FLOUR, CRACK El) WHEAT, IJOMLYV, tic. 

Brudie's Sclf-niisiiiLr Flour has been awarded First and 
F^xlra Pri/.es at all the Provineial l<>xhibilioris, and received 
Medal and Diploma at the U, S. Centennial I^xhii)ition. It 
is the most economical and reliable article for producini; the 
most suj^erior Pastry and Cakes of all kinds. 

ALL THE GROCFRS KELP IT. 

Office, COK. CRAIG ami BLEURY STREETS, 

MONTREAL. 




UAKNEY & BERRY'S Celebrated AMERICAN RINK & ICE KIN« SKATES 
Also, Ladles' and Gents' Victoria CInb Skates, for sale at 

T. W. BOYD'S, 241 Notre Dame Street. 

^lT SKATES GROUND AND REPAIRED. 




J. B. JVIcKEROHER, 

BOOT AND SHOF. STOKE, 

228 NOTEE DAME STREET 

MONTREAL. 



'^> 






Mr. McK. has constantly on ha 1 a large assortment of Boots and Sliots 
at very low prices. All goods warranted. Shooting and Fishing Boots a 
specialty. Snowshoers should inspect our Moccasins before purchasing 
elsewhere. The best value in Overshoes. 




47 

OUR JUVENILE DEPARTMENT. 

This select Stock comprises flie Iiirffcst and most varied 

assortment in tlie Dominion, beiii^ arranged for 

tlie wliolesale and retail demand. 

Youth's Clothing in three Sizes, ^' \ 

The Dominion Suit, all woci twccd, $4.50. ■ 

The College Suit, serviceable and select, $6.50. 

The Visiting Suit, fine Canadian Tweed, $8. 

The Fine Hlack Cloth Suit, very fashionahlc, $10.50. 

Boys' Clothing. 

The Byron Suit, a good Spring twccd, $4. 
The School Suit, most durable, $5.50. 
The Cadet Suit, very becoming, $7.50. 
The Fine Black Cloth Suit, latest pattern, $9. 

Children's Suits in three Sizes. 

The Knickerbocker Suit, neat and scrviceal)le, $3. 
The Play Ground Suit, most durable, $3.50. 
The Black Cloth Suit, silk liraidcd, &c., $5.50. 

A^COMPKTITION DKFIfc^D. 

31, 33 & 35 St. Lawrence Main Street. 



c. h. tuggey, 

Real Estate Agent, 

AND 



r in All Ms of Goal 



37 BEAVER HALL HILL. 










\ 



I 



REYNOLDS & v6lI<EL 



■?■"" '^ 



'Sf^- 



J 



4.27 NOTRE DAME STREI;;t,407 

AWARDED 



-'\ 



|ntcrnaiioiml & Canadian I dix\§ & \m}o\m§ 
At the Philadelphia Centennial Exhib Jon 

FOR ^-- 

EXCELLENCE of MANUFACTURES in FUR 

Ladies' and Gents' Fine Furs a Specie 



RICHARD HEMSLej^ 




% 



s^tm ip\ 



■-•^'^ , r-..;?- 



WATCHMAKER andJEWELjl 

Waltham Watches in stock. Repairs a specialty. 
173 ST. JOSEPH STREET. 173, 

MONTREAL. 






-J... 4 . ..JU,v.v VSI-.J 



