W^i^ 



A. ^-^ 



m- 










r 



Accessions 




Shelf No. 






^ ^^^^ 8 I in) 



SEP 16 '4'] 



EVERY DAY MEALS 



BEING ECONOMIC AND WHOLESOME RECIPES FOR 



BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER 



^0 oy^yQ 



MARY HOOPER 



AUTHOR OF "little DINNTRS," *'>(U;.,Y.\lY JOj; rN\ALIDi," ETC. 
rnOFESSOR of domestic economy, CRYSIAL PALACE SCHOOL OF ART, ETC., ETC. 



Hexry S. King k Co., London 

1877 



/' t 



1 ./w-i-'^ 



f^y - J ^ 



// 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 



LITTLE DINNERS: 

HOW TO SERVE THEM WITH ELEGANCE AND ECONOMY, 

T-u.>elfth Editioji. Cj'mon 2>vo, price 5^. 

COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, 

PERSONS OF DELICATE DIGESTION, AND CHILDREN. 

Crmon Svo, price 3 J. dd. 



HENRY S. KING & CO., LONDON. 



\Thc rights o] translation and rejJrodudio:! are reserved.] 



PEE FACE. 



The gratifying reception which has been accorded 
to my books on cookery, and especially to " Little 
Dinners," has induced me to prepare another hand- 
book, embracing a large number of original recipes 
which could not be included in the plan of that 
book. These recipes have all been carefully pre- 
pared by me for the use of the Cookery Classes 
in the Crystal Palace School of Art, Science, and 
Literature. My'^aim has been to give clear and 
simple directions, which may be successfully fol- 
lowed by the most inexperienced cook, and at the 
same time to show how good results may be ob- 
tained by the exercise of economy. 

Housekeepers are so well acquainted with the 
difficulty of providing a varied menih for early 
breakfasts, that it is hoped the first part of this 
book may be especially acceptable to them. There 



iv PREFACE, 



are a number of obstacles in tlie ^Yay of arranging- 
nourishing and suitable breakfasts; but wben we 
consider that it is of the first necessity for those 
members of a family who have to leave home 
early in the morning, to do so physically fortified 
against the fatigues of an anxious day, we shall see 
that it is as important to provide a nourishing suit- 
able breakfast as a good dinner. The man of 
business who swallows in haste a breakfast of the 
accepted national t}^e, which, although sufficiently 
expensive, is both innutritious and unattractive, and 
who has no time during the day to supplement this 
unsatisfactory meal by luncheon, runs great risk of 
ruinino; his health. There can be no doubt that 
many lives now sacrificed to the pressure of the 
times would be saved, or at least prolonged, were 
the vital powers more duly sustained during the 
early part of the day by a good and suitable break- 
fast. 

There is but little variety in the dishes used for 
breakfast in the majority of English families. 
" Bacon and eggs again, my dear," sighed a discon- 
tented husband ; *' Well, what can I do ? " answered 
the anxious wife, ''you shall have eggs and bacon 



PREFACE. 



by way of change to-morrow.'" It is certain that 
for the same cost as the eggs and bacon sufficient 
variety could be secured, for fresh eggs in town ai'e 
always costly, and bacon is also expensive, a great 
portion of it running to fat, and by the ordinary 
mode of cooking it is too often rendered hard and 
indigestible. The same may be said of kidneys, 
which are gradually rising to the price of unap- 
proachable delicacies. When hardened in cook- 
ing, as they often are, they are both wasteful and 
innutritions, but one kidney, cooked as directed 
for "kidneys sautes," will go as far in every sense 
as two dressed in the ordinary way : an example, if 
one were needed, of the economy of well-prepared 
food. 

Sausages have from time immemorial found 
favour as a breakfast dish. But that any one 
should be able to eat those sold in shops after the 
revelations respecting them, and the great risk there 
is of getting diseased meat in so disguised a form, 
is indeed surprising. There is no difficulty what- 
ever in making sausao^es at home, a mincino- 
machine will last a lifetime, and be so useful for a 
variety of purposes that no family should be with- 



Ti PREFACE. 



out one. Some well-tried recipes for making sau- 
sages of all kinds are given, and thus prepared are 
useful and relishino; articles of diet. 

Dried fish of various kinds is much in vogue, 
and is useful by way of appetiser; but it does not 
possess the valuable nutritive qualities of the fresh 
fish, and is not suited to delicate digestions. 

Chops and steaks are excellent in their way, but 
are costly, and from one cause or another often fail 
to tempt the appetite in the morning. *' Then what 
are we to have?" cries the perplexed housewife, 
" everything nice is so expensive, and it is most 
^ifiicult to make varied and suitable dishes for 
breakfast." To this we must reply that, although 
the cost of provisions is very great at the present 
time, and the general cost of living most serious for 
small incomes, the real difiiculty lies not so much 
in the expense as in the want of skill in making 
the most of things, and also in the want of fore- 
thought and management. No cooking can be 
done without taking time and trouble, and it is 
because our French neighbours spare neither the 
one nor the other in the exercise of the culinary 
art, that they so greatly excel in it. If, as the 



PREFACj. vi'i 



celebrated chef said of his sauce, breakfast " is pre- 
pared with brains," it need never be an expensive 
meal ; and if thought is taken to-day for to- 
morrow's breakfast, it may be got up with but little 
expense, at an early hour, and be both suitable and 
economical. 

A few menus have been arranged for simple 
every-day breakfasts, all of which can without 
difficulty be served at an early hour. These menus 
may serve as models for others, for which a number 
of supplementary recipes will be found elsewhere in 
the book, under the head of " Little Dishes.'' 

The breakfasts of children, school-boys and girls, 
which should be as varied as is consistent with 
simplicity, are often unduly restricted, and bread 
and butter, not because it is the least expensive, but 
because it is the least trouble, is held to be the 
proper thing to satisfy the needs and appetites of 
growing children. Attempts have been made by 
dieticians to induce English people to use oatmeal 
more freely. But these efforts have met with but 
partial success, owing to the inferior character of 
the meal usually sold, and to the still more 
inferior mode in which it is cooked. Properly 



viii PREFACE. 



prepared porridge is not only highly nutritious, but 
a generally acceptable form of diet, and if ac- 
customed to it from infancy, there are very few 
children who will not eat it. It may be taken as a 
general rule that when children manifest a dislike 
to oatmeal porridge it is on account of its being 
badly prepared. By far too much meal is used by 
English cooks, and they do not boil it long enough 
to render porridge easy of digestion. The pre- 
parations of Italian wheat — the grano cluro — which 
is different from Indian corn, and possesses a high 
degree of nourishment, semolina, macaroni, and 
similar pastes, do not find the favour with us which 
they deserve. People dislike these things as they 
do oatmeal, because they are not properly prepared 
for table. Here, again, is a serious loss to the 
national dietary from the indifferent style of our 
cookery. 

The important question of reducing the quantity 
of animal food, having due regard to the necessity 
of maintaining a high standard of health and 
strength in the community at large, has been 
anxiously considered. There can be no doubt that 
it is desirable from every point of view to make 



PREFACE. 



such additions to the plain joint of the family fare 
as will supj)ly the requisite nourishment, and tend 
at the same thne to diminish the need for the large 
proportion of animal diet now used. Such useful 
additions to the family mid-day meal are soup and 
broth, such as appear on every Continental table. 
Is it not strange that soup, which is held by our 
neighbours to duly prepare the stomach for its more 
onerous duties, and to assist in assimilating the 
heavier food, should be thought by us to have the 
directly opposite effect \ Perhaps the most common 
objection to soup by the English people is, that it 
spoils the appetite ; but if the appetite is satisfied 
with suitable food, this ought to be regarded as an 
advantage. Then another objection is, that soup is 
expensive, and that it is troublesome to make it. 
The recipes and directions which are given under 
this head will, it is hoped, enable housekeepers to 
provide this valuable addition to the family fare 
with but little expense and trouble. 

With the view of rendering this book generally 
useful, a series of menus for family dinners, such as 
are suitable for the children and for family lun- 
cheons, has been arranged. These comprise such 



PREFACE. 



dishes as come under the head of "plain cookery," 
and every hint which may render the recipes useful 
to the inexperienced housekeeper has been given. 

In most families, from time to time, there are 
occasions when it is necessary to serve luncheons of 
ceremony, suppers, or additional delicacies. To 
meet these requirements there are given a number 
of recipes, both for sweet and savoury dishes, all 
prepared with regard to economy, and a great pro- 
portion of them by new and easy methods. The 
cold dishes under this head will also be for the 
most part suitable for high tea, and the hot dishes 
will be found lis^ht and dio-estible enouo;h to serve 

o o o 

for little suppers. 

My former success encourages me to hope that 
this new book, on which my best efforts have been 
expended, will be widely useful. My recompense 
will be great if it prove a real help to those who, 
in these difficult times, are seeking to raise the 
standard of housewifely perfection, and by their 
own example to show that the best work a woman 
can do is that in the home, and for the well-being 
of the family. 

MARY HOOPER 



CONTENTS. 



Hints on Economical Cookepa- 



BEEAKFASTS. 





PAr;E 




PAGE 


Kidneys Sautes 


. 29 


Broiled or Devilled Chicken 


Rolled Mackerel 


. 30 


Legs. . . . 


. 4t> 


Boiled Bacon 


31 


Eggs sur le Plat 


. 47 


Broiled Chicken 


. 32 


Sheep's Tongues . 


. 48 


Mutton Pies . 
Boiled Eggs 


. 33 
. 33 


Fonda .... 
Broiled Bacon 


. 48 
. 49 


Spiced Beef . 


34 


Potted Salmon . 


. 50 


Potato Chips . 
Eggs au Bernais . 


35 






36 


Broiled Kidneys , 


51 




Egg Cutlets . 


51 


Meat Cakes a I'ltalienne . 


36 


Pigs' Feet a la St. Mene 




RoUed Tongue 


37 


hould .... 


52 


Marrow Toast . 


38 










Mutton Collops . 


53 


Roulades of Mutton 


38 


Potato Snow 


. 54 


Brawn .... 


39 


Fried Mushroo-ns , 


54 


Soused Herrings . 


40 










Pressed Ox Cheek . . . 


55 


Raised Pork Pie . 


41 


Bloaters .... 


55 


Baked Soles . . . . 


42 


Scalloped Eggs . . , 


5(> 


Omelette aux Fines Herbes . 


43 i 










Tea 


57 


Broiled Mackerel . 


44 


Coffee 


58 


Savomy Eggs . . . . 


45 


Cocoa 


61 


Potted Beef . . . . 


45 


Chocolate . , , . 


62 



COXTENTS. 



PAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 





PAGE 




PAGE 


Eoasted Leg of Mutton 


65 


Bread Soup 


86 


Yorkshire Pudding . 


67 


Liver and Bacon , 


87 


Browned Potatoes 


68 


Treacle Pudding 


87 


Piice Pudding . .... 


69 










lyiutton Broth 


88 


Spring Soup 


69 


Roast Pork 


. 89 


Pie of Ste^yed Shin of I5eef 


70 


Apple Sauce 


90 


Cocoa Pudding 


72 


AVanviekshire Pudding . 


90 


Herrings with Mustard Sauce 


I 72 






Boiled Leg of Mutton 


73 


Sheep's Head Soup 


91 


Caper Sauce . 

Semolina " Bottasso " Pud 


74 


Rissolettes of Beef or Muttor 


I 92 




Beatrice Pudding 


93 


ding .... 


75 


Cabbage Soup 


94 


Milk Soup 


76 


Mutton Pasty . 


94 


Ptump Steak . 


76 


Italian Macaroni . 


95 


To Cook Haricot Beans . 


78 


Plain Apple Charlotte 


96 


Haricot Beans Fried 


78 






Pancakes .... 


79 


Mashed Parsnips . 


. 97 


Semolina Soup 


80 


Fried Bread 
Stewed Ox Heart . 


97 
98 


Irish Stew 
Jam Pudding 


80 
81 


Batter Pudding 


99 


Stewed Beef Steak . 


82 


Pea, or Lentil Soup 


99 


Suet Dumplings . 


83 


Fish Pie .... 


101 


Boiled Potatoes 


84 


Boiled Oatmeal Pudding 


. 102 


liread Pudding 


85 







EISH. 



On Frying Fish . . . 


105 


Fried Sole . . . . 


107 


Filleted Soles . . . . 


108 


Fillets of Sole Sautes . 


109 


Fillets of Sole Fried . . . 


109 


Fillets of Sole a la Maitre 




d'HOtel .... 


110 


Fillets of Sole en Aspic . . 


110 



Baked Soles . 
Fried Smelts . 
Boiled Salmon 
Brill 
Cod Fish 
Sea Bream 
Turbot . 
Salmon Steaks 





CONTENTS. 


xiii 




I'AGE 




]'AGE 


Mayonnaise of Salmon . 


115 


Dried Mackerel . . . 


123 


Salmon Salad . 


117 


Baked Herrings . 


123 


Salad Dressing 


117 


Rechauffe of Turbot . . . 


124 


Fried Cod Fish . . . 


118 


Cheap Fish Pies . 


124 


Eechauffe of Cod Fish . 


118 


Collared Eels . . . . 


126 


Hard Cod's Roe 


119 


Oyster Trifles 


126 


To Cook Haddock 


120 


Lobster Cutlets . . . 


128 


Fresh Haddock Broiled . . 


121 


Scalloped Lobster , 


129 


Dried Haddock . 


122 


Lobster en Beignets . 


129 


Kippered Herrings . 


122 


Lobster Sauce 


130 


Kippered Salmon . 


123 






LI 


TTLE 


DISHES. 




Grenadines of Beef . 


133 


Roast Chicken with Water 




Roulades de Bceuf 


133 


cress 


153 


Hashed Beef . 


134 


Fowl a la Soubise . 


154 


Tripe in Batter . 


135 


Fried Chicken . 


156 


Baked Tripe with Potatoes 


136 


Chicken Saute 


156 


Cow Heel 


136 


Minced Chicken with Egg 


167 


Meat Puddings 


137 


Fillets of Turkey . 


157 


Rechauffes 


138 


Fried Rabbit 


158 


Savoury Roll Pudding . 


139 


Rabbit with Mushrooms . 


158 


Meat Minced . 


. 140 


Pigeons 


159 


Shoulder of ]\Iutton Ijonec 




Lamb's Sweetbreads . 


159 


and Stuffed 


141 


Sheep's Brains 


160 


Chops .... 


143 


Brains and Tongues au Gratir 


1 161 


Neck of Mutton Cutlets 


143 


Brain Fritters . 


162 


Mutton Cutlets 


145 


Sweetbread Balls . 


163 


Hashed Mutton . 


145 


Brain or Sweetbread Cutlets 


163 


Mutton Saute . 


. 146 


Kidneys a la Brochette . 


. 163 


Cold Mutton Potted . 


147 


Toasted Kidneys . 


. 164 


Shoulder of Lamb Stuffed 


. 147 


Kidneys with Mushrooms 


. 165 


Stewed Leg of Lamb 


. 148 


Puree of Mushrooms 


. 166 


Yeal a la Casserole 


. 149 


Baked Mushrooms 


. 166 


Frittura Piccata 


. 150 


Mushrooms with Cream Sauc 


3 166 


Risotto a la Milanese '. 


. 150 


Sausages .... 


. 167 


Yeal Cutlets with Toiuat 




Pork Sausages 


. 170 


Sauce 


. 151 


Beef Sausages . 


. 171 


Calf s Liver k la Erochette 


. 151 


1 Yeal and Ham Sausages 


. 172 


Yeal Rissol^ttes 


. 152 


1 Bath Polonies . 


. 172 



iv CONTENTS. 






PAGE 




PAG 


Kump Steak Pie . 


173 


Oyster Patties 


19t. 


Veal and Ham Pie . 


174 


Lobster Rolls . 


19; 


Chicken Pie . 


174 


Eggs and Bacon . 


197 


Eabbit Pie . . . 


175 


Hard Eggs in Gravy 


198 


Goose Pie . 


176 


Eggs en Surtout . 


199 


Pigeon Pie 


176 


Egg Balls 


199 


Game Pasty . 


177 


Forcemeat Balls . 


200 


Pate de Foies Gras . 


178 


Oatmeal Porridge 


200 


Pressed Beef 


179 


Italian Maize Flour Porridgt 


i 201 


Rolled Beef . 


180 


Polenta 


201 


Galantine 


ISO 


Sandwiches a la Chateau 




White Galantine 


181 


briand .... 


202 


Mock Brawn 


183 


Anchovy Sandwiches . 


203 


Yorkshire Brawn 


183 


Macaroni au Parmesan 


203 


Croquettes . 


184 


Plain Timbale of Macaroni 


204 


Croquettes of Salmon 


185 


To make Stuffing . 


205 


Savoury Rice Croquettes 


186 


Rich Gravy 


207 


Kromeskies 


187 


Cauliflower au Parmesan 


208 


Fried Bread Cases 


189 


To cook Spinach . . . 


208 


Curries .... 


190 


Spanish Onions . 


209 


Dry Curry . 


192 


Radishes .... 


210 


Curried Eggs . 


192 


Watercress . 


210 


Rice for Curries . 


193 


Mint Sauce 


211 


Vol-au-A'ent . 


194 


Boiled Cheese 


211 


Sausage Roll 


195 


Grated Cheese . 


212 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 



Puff Pastry . 


215 


Omelette au Confitun^ . . 


Short Crust 


216 


Omelette Souffle . 


Apple Tart . 


217 


Souffle Pudding . 


Apple Turnovers 


219 


Swiss Pudding . . . . 


Baked Apple Dumplings 


219 


Castle Puddings . 


Boiled Apple Dumplings . 


220 


Cabinet Pudding . . . 


Cheesecakes . 


220 


A'anilla Rusk Pudding . 


Currant and ,'Cheny Tc' rt . 


218 


Italian Fritters . . . 


Greengage Plum Tart . . 


. 218 


Cocoa-nut Pudding 


Lemon Past^ 


221 


Irish Oatmeal Sandwich 


Bath Chee^cakes 


221 


Compote of Fruits . . . 


Cheap Cheesecakes 


. 222 


Compote of Prunes • , 



CONTENTS. 



JELLIES, CEEAMS, ICES. 





PAGE 




PACK 


Uies .... 


235 


Meringues 


244 


aret Jelly . 


238 


Remarks on making Ices 


246 


istard 


238 


Ice Creams 


248 


"hipped Cream 


239 


Flavours 


248 


pricot Cream 


240 


"Water Ices 


249 


ady Jane's Orange Cream 


241 


Ice Pudding 


250 


Eum Cream . 


242 


Iced Coffee 


250 


Ginger Cream . 


242 


To keep Ice . 


251 


Charlotte Russe . 


. 243 







BREAD AND CAKES. 



Bread Making 


255 


Savoury Sponge Cake . 


271 


Household Bread . . . 


258 


Lemon Savoy Sponge 


271 


Unfermented Bread 


261 


S^^•iss Roll . 


272 


Baking Powder . . . 


263 


Caraway Lunch Cake 


272 


Milk Bread . . . . 


263 


Cocoa-nut Cakes . 


273 


Yorkshire Breakfast Cakes . 


264 


Cocoa-nut Rock 


273 


Tea Cakes . . . . 


264 


Macaroons , 


274 


To make Yeast . . . 


264 


Amandines 


274 


Plain Bread Cake . 


265 


Rice Cakes . 


275 


Buns 


265 


Rock Cakes 


275 


Crisp Oatmeal Cakes . 


266 


Ginger Nuts . 


. 27G 


Water Oat Cakes . . . 


267 


Plain Biscuits . 


277 


Scotch Potato Scones . 


267 


To Ice Cakes 


277 


Scotch Soda Scones . . . 


268 


To Ornament a Caka . . 


278 


Madeira Cakes 


269 


Almond Icing 


279 


Rich Plum or Bride Cake . . 


270 






PEESERYES 


AND 


USEFUL RECIPES. 




French Preserves . 


283 


Seville Orange Jelly . 


. 288 


Strawberries 


283 


Syrup of Sweet Oranges 


. 288 


Cherries 


284 


Mushroom Ketchup . 


. 289 


Raspberrj' and Currant Jelly 


285 


Dried Mushrooms . 


. 290 


Conserve of Plums . 


285 


To Cure Hams . 


. 291 


Orange Marmalade 


286 


To Pickle Red Cabbage . 


. 292 



CONTEXTS. 





VXCT. 




TAGE 


Lemon Pickle . 


293 


Grape Cham] )agiie. 


299 


To ripen and keep a Stilton 


Gooseberry Champapjiic 


. 299 


Cheese . 


293 


Eed Currant AVinc 


300 


Cochineal Colouring . 


294 


Elderberry AViue 


300 


Eaisin AVine . 


294 


Claret Cup . 


301 


Orange AVine . 


296 


Ginger Beer 


302 


Cowslip AVine 


297 


Gingerade . 


302 


Ginger AVine . 


297 


Lemonade 


303 


ISDLX .... 


. 




• 305 



HIFTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY, 

ETC., ETC. 



It has been so often repeated that the English cook is 
not only the worst but the most wasteful in the world, 
that the fact has come to be accepted as a sad and certain 
truth for which there is no remedy. But to sit down 
submissively under any evil is not worthy of our national 
character, and alread}^ ladies, by a diligent study of 
cookery and dietetics, are seeking to inaugurate a better 
law for our kitchens. 

In the first place it should be understood that a good 
cook is always economical. It may be that for some 
dishes she may have to use expensive materials, and 
to reject all but the finer portions of such materials, 
but in no case will she allow any trimmings, boilings, 
or skimmings to be tlfi'own away or left to spoil for 
want of thought or attention. By the exercise of her 
skill, these often " unconsidered trifles " may be so 
acceptably utilized, that the cost of a superior dish 
will be reduced to that of an ordinary one. Waste and 

B 2 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



perquisites are the two giant evils which lie at the root of 
our extravagant and inferior cookery, and it is in the 
interest both of good mistresses and good servants that 
both should be checked. 

One of the most useful and acceptable forms of cookery 
— frying — suffers in all middle-class kitchens in a large 
degree from the institution of the grease-pot and the 
perquisite of dripping. The latter perquisite tempts the 
cook systematically to overroast joints, for besides the 
dripping thus obtained, when meat is overroasted more 
gi*avy goes into the pan, and dripping with this rich 
and valuable deposit of fine jelly fetches a higher price, 
and is highly esteemed by the people who purchase it 
at the shops. Thus the housewife is robbed not only 
of the dripping, but of the nutriment of her meat, 
and when anything has to be fried further suffers from 
the greed of the cook, who appropriates all the fat she 
possibly can as a lawful perquisite. In families of from 
four to six persons, living in a fairly generous manner, there 
should always be plenty of frying fat obtained from roasted 
meat and pot skimmings without buying any lard. And 
it ought to be more generally known than it is that 
clarified pot skimmings make the best frying fat. The 
most delicate things, croquettes, rissoles, fritters, and 
potatoes, can be exquisitely fiied in clarified pot top or 
dripping, as is constantly shown at the Crystal Palace 
school. If the frying fat is at the proper temperature no 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 5 

taste of it will be communicated to the substance immersed 
in it. 

The process of clarifying fat for frying is very simple. 
Remove any deposit of gravy — and this should always be 
done within two days after the dripping is made, as such 
gravy is precious and is apt to become sour if left too long 
— then break up the dripping into small pieces, and put 
it into a large pan. Pour over the dripping at least three 
pints of boiling water to a pound, stir until dissolved, and 
then set the pan aside until the next day. Remove the 
dripping in one piece, scrape the under side and dry it well 
in a cloth, put it into a deep baking dish and set it on the 
range — not in the oven — at a low heat and let it melt ; 
when again cold, take the dripping out of the dish, wipe and 
put it away wrapped in sheets of paper. Pot skimmings 
are to be treated in exactly the same way, and will be 
found the best possible frying fat. If frying fat has to be 
bought it is best on all accounts to prepare it at home. 
Procure mutton suet, cut it into shreds, put it into a 
clean saucepan and let it melt slowly ; when done strain 
it into a basin, let it stand until cold, and treat in the 
same manner as dripping. 

No fried things are wholesome, unless thoroughly im- 
mersed in fat at such a temperature as will effectually 
prevent their becoming sodden, nor, indeed, can frying be 
successfully done in any other way. Thus it will be seen 
how important it is that all household fat should be care- 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



fully saved, and how great an advantage it is to a cook 
always to have a store of it. Fat can with a little manage- 
ment be used several times for frying, and it is an error 
to suppose that when used for frying fish, it is not after- 
wards fit for any other purpose. The thermometer is the 
most exact, as it is the most scientific way of determining 
temperature, yet there is not the least difficulty in coming 
to a right conclusion by the use of the ordinary domestic 
test. Persons accustomed to frying will know without 
testing when the fat is ready, but under the slightest 
doubt will plunge a piece of dry bread into it. If the 
bread takes a brown tinge instantly, the fat will be ready. 
Should a slight smoke arise from the fat it must be used 
at once, or be taken off the fire. The practice of throwing 
in parsley or drops of water to ascertain the temperature 
of fat cannot be approved, for if incautiously done when 
the fat is very hot, the slight explosion thus caused may 
result in scalding the hands of the operator, and in 
making splashes of grease on the range. A careful cook 
who conducts the operation of frying on proper principles 
will never incur this last misfortune, and will not, as in- 
experienced cooks constantly do, dread having to fry when 
she has " that morning blackleaded her range." The 
obvious cause of fat "spluttering" is that it contains 
water, and if unclarified dripping or frying fat is used 
over again, it may, because of other substances mixed 
with it, have the same unpleasant consequence, besides 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 7 

K3ausing a most disagreeable odour throughout the house. 
Let it, then, be borne in mind that the success of frying 
•depends on having clean, dry fat, and plenty of it, and in 
taking care that the temperature of the fat is that which 
has been indicated. 

It is essential for a cook to observe that different kinds 
K)f fat come to the right heat for frying at different tem- 
peratures. Lard hoils much sooner than beef or mutton 
fat, and vegetable oil sooner than either of these ; and 
unless care is taken in using the latter, accidents may 
occur. 

On turning to the subject of stock, economical gravies, 
and soups, we shall not fail to recall the great trouble of 
Mrs. Todgers' life — " the gravy;" how she declared "that 
the anxiety of that one item keeps the mind continually 
on the stretch." Very many housewives will sympathize 
with this anxiety, having too often to go without gravy, 
-or submit to joints of meat being sent to table washed 
^ver with water flavoured with burnt sugar. The writer 
has seen a so-called " professed " cook mix a little brown- 
ing and salt in boiling water, and pour it over the joint of 
meat just before sending to table, yet with a little 
knowledge on the part of the mistress, with a little fore- 
thought and care on the part of the cook, a good house- 
hold gravy will never be wanting even in a small family. 

"How was it, cook, we had no gravy with the beef 
ye&terday ? " inquires the lady of the house. 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



" "Why, ma'am, you said you would not allow gravy 
meat ; and, of course, I couldn't make it out of nothing ! '*" 

The mistress, ignorant of the excellent use to which 
small scraps and bones can be put, or that, failing better 
material, a pint of tasty gravy can be made from the- 
broth of any boiled meat, rabbit, or poultry, with two 
onions fried brown, a bacon bone, and, if at hand, a morsel 
of turnip or dried mushroom, sighs, gives way to the cook's- 
superior tactics, goes without gravy, or provides expensive^ 
meat for it. 

The liquor in which a leg of mutton or lamb, a fowl, or 
rabbit has been boiled, will, with the addition of a little- 
colouring, be good enough for the gi'avy of roasted meats, 
and a careful cook can always make it additionally nice 
by adding the rich gravy from beneath the dripping from 
joints previously roasted. And besides the use for stock 
and gravies, these boilings of meat are invaluable for 
soup making. With the addition of a few vegetables, a 
soup can be made which A\dll have more flavour than that 
generally served abroad, and which may satisfy the most 
fastidious eater. Perhaps there is no more delicious broth 
than that in which a rabbit weighing from two to three 
pounds and a pound of bacon have been boiled, and it is 
readily conveiled into mulligatawny or Palestine soup, 
and no expense beyond that of the vegetables, seasoning, 
and milk need be incurred. 

Many cooks throw away all the water in which vege- 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 9 

tables and fish have been boiled, under the impression 
that it is useless. But in towns where vegetables are 
expensive, every drop of liquor from all vegetable roots 
should be used as flavouring for soups and gravies, or as 
stock in which to boil or stew meat or fish. The liquor 
in which fish has been cooked should be reserved for a 
similar purpose, it will keep a long time, even in summer, 
if boiled every day, and this is an important matter to 
observe when necessary to keep stock, gravy, and soup of 
any kind. It will sometimes happen that even carefully- 
made soup will require some additional flavour, and this 
may be given by adding a little of any piquant sauce, a 
few drops of essence of anchovies, or a spoonful of home- 
made mushroom catsup. As a rule bought catsup should 
be avoided, the flavour can readily be obtained from the 
dried Italian mushroom. Always keep these, a packet of 
prepared vegetables, and a little home-made glaze in store, 
and you can at a very short notice serve an economical 
and good soup. In many cases a pinch of castor sugar is 
a useful addition, and it will be found in some degree to 
lessen the bitterness caused by a burnt bone or over-fried 
onion, also if the soup is over salt it may be used by way 
of remedy. In all soups for children and those in which 
vegetables predominate a little sugar should be used. 

The practice adopted by many cooks of keeping the 
stock pot always on the range, and of adding bones and 
trimmings as they come to hand, is not good. Stock 



lo EVERY DAY MEALS. 

:should be made every day in a large, and twice a week in 
a small family. When the stock has boiled four or five 
hours, all useful nutriment will have been extracted from 
the materials used ; it should then be strained and allowed 
to get cold in order to remove all the fat. The pot should 
be duly and thoroughly cleansed, both inside and out, and 
then be put away for future use ; and be it observed that 
aao good soup of any class can be made in any but scrupu- 
lously clean utensils, and that no stock pot ^vhich will soil 
^ clean cloth when rubbed inside is fit for use. 

When vegetables are required merely for flavouring 
soup, they should be allowed to boil only until tender ; 
after tho.t time they do but absorb the flavour of the meat. 
Many cooks throw away the vegetables which have been 
used in soup making, but this wasteful, thoughtless prac- 
tice is very much to be condemned. The vegetables which 
have been used for flavouring will not only have served 
that purpose, but have been thereby rendered more valu- 
able and nourishing. If not required for use the day on 
which the soup is made they should be put aside, and 
made into some useful dish for the next da}^ ; but if not 
convenient to rewarm them, cold vegetables may be made 
into excellent salads, and thus serve to give inexpensive 
nourishing variety to the ordinary fare. 

There is even a greater prejudice in England against 
fish than vegetable soup. Both are popularly held to be 
devoid of nourishment — to be weak and watery and apt 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. n 



to disagi-ee with the stomach. That these errors are as 
grave as they are widespread need not be demonstrated 
here, and it will be sufficient to say they tend to that 
serious waste of good nourishment to which we have 
before alluded. 

Fish soup may be made at a very small cost by care- 
fully utilizing the liquor in which the fish has been cooked. 
This, with the addition of vegetables, flavouring matters, 
milk or cream, flour and bread, will make as delicious a 
soup as need be. How much better would it be if the 
working man, for instance, would have a basin of such 
soup for his breakfast, instead of innutritions and watery 
tea. How good, too, for children in towns, where milk is 
so poor and costly, would a daily meal of fish and vege- 
table soup be. 

When cod-fish has been used for dinner, some such 
recipe as the following might be tried for soup the next 
day :— 

When the fish comes from table, remove any flesh from 
the bones and put it away for future use. Then put the 
bones with any skin there may be into the liquor in 
which the fish was boiled, with a turnip, a carrot, three 
or four onions, a slice of bread toasted brown but not 
blackened, and later, a little celery, half-a-dozen pepper- 
corns, and a tiny bit of mace. Let all this boil for two 
hours, or until the vegetables are perfectly tender. Take 
out the fish bones, rub the vegetables through a sieve to a 



12 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

smooth pulp, boil up the soup, and to each quart add a 
dessertspoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of potato flour 
mixed smooth in a quarter of a pint of milk or water- 
Stir over the fire until thickened, add a teaspoonful of 
essence of shrimps or of anchovies, a teaspoonful of vine- 
gar or two of lemon juice, and serve. If you will afford 
it the yolk of an Qg% will be an excellent addition ; it 
should be stirred in after the soup is thickened. 

The addition of half a tin of preserved lobster tc 
three pints of this soup will convert it into one of the 
first class. If curry is liked, a pinch of the powder may 
be stirred in with the thickening. In using preserved 
lobster take care not to boil it, it only requires to stand 
a few minutes in the hot soup. 

Although the preserved soups now so largely sold are 
somewhat too expensive and too rich for family fare, 
those of the best makers, which there is reason to believe 
are perfectly pure and wholesome, may, with the addition 
of household broth, be often used with advantage. The 
exigencies of the manufacture of preserved soup render 
it impossible to use sufficient vegetables, therefore the 
addition of these in considerable quantities with broth or 
water in equal proportion with the soup, are in all re- 
spects desirable. For a quart of mock-turtle soup make 
an equal quantity of broth thus : — Boil three or four large 
onions, a large turnip, a small carrot, and half a stick of 
celery, all minced, in three pints of any household stock 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 13 

or of the water in which bacon has been cooked, or of 
plain water. When the vegetables are tender, rub them 
to a pulp, and add this and the broth to the mock-turtle, 
let all get slowly hot together, and when it boils stir in a 
large teaspoonful of French potato flour mixed smooth 
in a little water, let it simmer one minute longer, add 
pepper and salt and a few drops of colouring if necessary ; 
put a wine glass of sherry and the juice of half a lemon 
into the tureen, pour the soup on to these and serve. 
Crravy and other soups should be treated in the same 
manner, and thus the cost of a really good soup for a party 
will be moderate. It is important in all tinned provisions, 
to have those only of trustworthy makers, and the names 
of Moir and Sons, or those of Hogarth and Co., are a 
sufficient guarantee for the excellence of the articles 
supplied by them. 

The soups of the BociiU Ginerale des Potages Econo- 
-miques are excellent, and used as above directed will suit 
the Endish taste. 

With respect to first class soups, made entirely from 
fresh meat, we would observe they are necessarily ex- 
pensive, and it is a mistake to suppose that any kind of 
meat will answer for this purpose. Without denying, 
bowever, that good soup can be made from the inferior 
parts of meat, it is certain that the finer the meat the 
l)etter the soup. Thus, buttock steak will make a far more 
<ielicious soup than shin of beef, and when we calculate the 



14 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

cost of the bone and sinew, which only give gelatine, the 
last is not really so much cheaper in the end. The recipe 
for making clear soups which is accepted as a standard one 
is, in our judgment, extravagant and needlessly tedious. 
The proportions are, one pint of water to each pound 
of shin of beef, and one pint over. The time for making 
is five hours. After this preliminary process of making 
the stock, there is that of flavouring with vegetables and 
of clairfi cation, a pound more meat being required for two 
quarts of stock, and one to two more hours being con- 
sumed in the finishing process. Probably soup so made 
will be good, as indeed it ought to be, but a better 
soup can be made with less expenditure of time and 
money by simply boiling fine meat and carefully skim- 
ming it in the early part of the process, a due proportion 
of vegetables being added after this is done. Whea 
sufficiently boiled, the soup can generally be made per- 
fectly bright by passing it through a fine linen cloth or 
jelly bag after it has been strained. If from any faults 
in the management the soup is not clear, it must be 
clarified with the whites and shells of eggs in the same 
manner as jelly. If it is desirable to give the soup 
the gelatinous character of consomme, it can be done 
by adding isinglass or gelatine before clarification, and 
from every point of view the result will be more satis- 
factory than that which is obtained by tlie long boiling of 
bone and sinew. 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 15 

A gi-and gourmet once said to the writer, " I can 
predict from my first spoonful of soup the kind of 
dinner which will follow." No doubt he could — for only 
a clever cook can make a good soup. Not indeed that 
there is any difficulty in the matter, but the three qualities 
which are requisite in a cook must be brought into 
exercise to insure perfection. First. — Cleanliness. Soup 
will never have a fine appetising aroma if made in vessels 
which are not scrupulously clean, or if all the materials used 
are not perfectly fresh and thoroughly cleansed. Secondly 
— A keen power of observation, in order that the cook 
may know not only how to choose her materials, but how 
to prepare them. Thirdly — Attention — so that by ear 
and smell, as Avell as by taste, she may know how the 
cooking proceeds, and when it has gone far enough, for 
soup boiled too long loses in flavour what it gains in the 
element which some call " strength." 

The serious cost of provisions at the present time 
renders it imperative that housekeepers should be skilled 
in the choice of them. It may be a good plan for those 
who have ample means to deal with tradespeople of ac- 
knowledged respectability, and trust them to send good 
articles, but by so doing the housewife resigns to the 
purveyor her own prerogative of choice. The system of 
sending for orders has appeared to save much time and 
trouble, but under the almost universal adoption of this 
system butchers have by degrees found it possible not 



i6 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

only to substitute young and immature meat for that of 
prime quality, but to charge the price of the latter for it. 
It is no less than a duty for people of moderate incomes 
to market for themselves, and it is one of the means by 
which the decay of good housekeeping in England may be 
aiTested. Mistakes will doubtless be made in the begin- 
ning, but it must be remembered that all experience is 
worth buying. Written rules for the choice of meat are 
always difficult to apply, and the eye and touch can only 
be educated by careful comparison and close observation 
of form, colour, and characteristics. Hints for the choice 
of meat and poultry are given under the various heads. 

It is very necessary to be a good judge of fish, and as 
freshness is the most essential point, the observation must 
first be directed to it. Fish may be kept on ice for a 
considerable time and still be fit for food, but in such a 
case is always flavourless. Fresh from market fish is stiff 
and never cleaned and does not yield readily to the pres- 
sure of the finger. Except in stormy weather, when fish 
is scarce and fishmongers are obliged to keep it from day 
to day, it ought always to be cheap in the evening, and 
if the means for preserving it indicated in our recipes are 
used, it will be perfectly good for the next day. 

Bacon is an expensive article unless well chosen. The 
meat of small pigs is unprofitable in every sense of 
the word, the lean is hard and indigestible, the fat when 
broiled runs away, and when boiled lacks that fine 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 17 

ilavour and marrow-like quality peculiar to the flesh of 
iull-grown hogs. Good bacon has fine thin skin, is large 
and plump, the fat white and lard-like when scraped, and 
diere and there tinged with red. The lean is a brilliant 
red, interlined with threads of fat. The bones of good 
pork and bacon are large and well developed, and those of 
•the latter are particularly^ valuable in making soups and 
;gravies, as they yield, without so much salt, all the flavour 
of ham. Another point to observe in choosing bacon is 
the aroma imparted to it by the system of curing adopted 
by the best houses in the trade, and which is never found 
in inferior brands. 

The certainty that butter sold in shops is rarely un- 
-adulterated should make housekeepers very cautious in the 
<;hoice of it. There are a number of scientific and some 
simple tests which can be applied for the discovery of the 
various sophistications and adulterations, but as a rule they 
take too much time, and in the hands of non-professional 
:analysts must always be attended with some degree of 
uncertainty. For eveiyday application we must therefore 
fall back on simple domestic tests. The presence of too 
much salt is at once detected by the taste, of water or 
butter- milk in undue quantity by pressing the butter in a 
•cloth. In good butter very little of these last is obtained 
by the operation. 

A little practice will enable anyone to detect the 
presence of beef or mutton fat. Butter which contains 



1 8 E VER V DA V MEALS. 

either of these does not melt so readily as when it is pure. 
If animal fat is present it is almost certain that whea 
dissolved small pieces of skin will be found in the butter- 
When pieces of thread are found in dissolved butter, it is; 
a sign it is adulterated with rag pulp. 

So little terrors have the Adulterations Acts for the pur- 
veyors of butter, that specimens of this, sold lately as the 
" best fresh," at two shillings the pound, have given to- 
these rough domestic tests unmistakable evidence of the 
presence of animal fat and rag pulp. When the highest 
market price is paid for an article it is shamefully fraudu^ 
lent to sell such substitutions as these, and it is to the 
lasting disgi'ace of the English dealers that they have- 
destroyed the trade in pure Dutch butter by sending over 
to Holland tallow and every description of fat, to be there 
refined and returned to this country as butter. This- 
abominable stuff can be manufactured and sold here at a 
lower price than pure Dutch butter, and thus one of our 
most valuable food supplies is diverted, if not altogether 
lost. We cannot afford to be indifferent in this matter^ 
because butter, in its pure state, and when fresh is a valu- 
able food^ and less likely to disagree with the digestive 
organs than any other fats, and is by far the most agree- 
able of them to invalids and consumptive persons. The 
dislike which is usually shown to butter having a rancid 
taste springs from the fact — even when not known or 
recognized — that such butter is unwholesome ; the pecu- 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 19 

liar flavour arising from the decomposition, or as some 
say, fermentation, of the milk remaining in the butter. 
This flavour can be removed so as to make the butter fit 
for cooking purposes by clarifying, that is, pouring boiling 
water on it. When the butter is cold after this operation, 
it must be broken up, well washed in cold water, and then 
be melted at as low a heat as possible, after which it must 
be freed from all moisture, and kept in water slightly 
salted, and changed every day. 

To keep fresh butter sweet, put it into a pan of water, 
mixing a teaspoonful of tartaric acid to every half-gallon. 
Change the water once a week, or oftener in very hot 
weather. It is a great luxury to have butter firm in hot 
weather, and this can easily be efifected by placing over it, 
on a soup-plate, an inverted flower-pot covered with a 
cloth, and pouring water on the plate, so that evaporation 
may constantly go on. Several cheap and good inventions 
are sold for this purpose, and they save some little trouble 
and time in their application. Butter which has been 
exposed to a high temperature is apt to disagree with the 
digestive organs, and hence many people are afraid to eat 
sauces and melted butter. But if the method indicated 
in our various recipes is followed, namely, never to 
boil sauces after adding butter, they may be eaten with- 
out fear, for by merely dissolving it butter does not lose 
the fatty acids which give it flavour and make it 
digestible. 

c 2 



20 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

The price of butter is now so high that, wherever 
possible, other fat should be substituted for it. Beef- 
suet is, not even for families, so much used as it should 
be, and the reason of this is, that cooks for the most 
part chop instead of scraping or shredding it. If pro- 
perly prepared, fine fresh suet may be so used for pie- 
crust, delicate puddings, such as "Bread and Butter," and 
some others, like " The Beatrice," without anyone being 
able to detect the flavour. It goes twice as far as butter, 
and a pudding with an ounce of shred suet will eat as nice 
as if made of more than two ounces of butter. Beef-suet 
mixed with an equal quantity of pig's flead (sometimes 
called leaf), and melted at a low heat, is far better than 
inferior butter for the nursery and school-room, and the 
cost about half that of the latter. 

At this time, when so much anxiety is felt on the 
subject of our milk supply, it is well to consider what 
may be done, at least to render milk harmless. In the 
milk, as in almost every other provision trade, there has, 
in London and the suburbs during the last twenty years, 
been a gradual effort to increase profits at the undue 
expense of the consumers. In one matter alone, that of 
cleanliness, expense has been saved by the purveyors of 
milk. Take what precaution we may, it would seem, we 
rannot at present defy danger, but we can at least, each 
one for himself, reduce this danger to a minimum by in- 
sisting on a proper water supply, proper dairies, and due 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 21 

cleanliness. The only adulteration to which milk is now 
generally subjected is that of water, and fraud is further 
perpetrated by the withdrawal of a portion of the cream 
from milk sold and charged for as " new." This last fraud 
is easy of detection by the lactometer, and it would be a 
useful lesson in domestic chemistry for ladies to become 
familiar with the use of this instrument, which is a 
cylindrical glass graduated into one hundred parts, and 
the milk to be tested must stand in it for ten or twelve 
hours. Sometimes milk, without being adulterated, when 
from cows which have been too long in milk, or which are 
of a poor breed, will give very little cream ; but the per- 
centage in any case should never be below six, and it 
ought to be much higher. The specific gravity of un- 
skimmed milk is 1030, and the test for the addition of 
water can only be satisfactorily made by the professional 
analysts. The admixture of chalk, starch, and annotto 
with milk is not now largely practised, and the use of the 
two last would not be open to serious objection if it did 
not cover one or other of the frauds alluded to. 

Starch is employed to give body to, and restore the 
colour of milk rendered blue by the addition of water, 
and annotto to give the yellow appearance which may 
deceive the uninstructed, and induce the belief that the 
milk is rich. It is of such great importance to the infant 
and invalid part of the population that milk should be 
absolutely pure and of good quality, that it is the duty of 



22 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

all persons energetically to endeavour to put down 
adulteration, and to insist on having the article for which 
they pay a fair market price, both pure and of good 
quality. 

As the only way to destroy the germs of disease in 
water is to boil and filter it, so milk can only be 
rendered safe by boiling. Of course, when milk is sup- 
plied from the home farm, when the health of the cows 
is known to be good, and that no impure water has 
been added, this precautiop. is unnecessary. Milk and 
cream cannot well be kept too cool, and it is a good j^lan, 
where there is no suitable place for keeping the milk, to 
place the vessel in which it is contained in another half 
filled with water and slightly salted. In hot weather, if 
the milk has been carried through the streets or sent by 
railway, it is desirable before boiling to add a pinch of 
carbonate of soda to it, as this will prevent curdling. 
This precaution is commonly adopted in America. If 
cream has slightly turned, a little carbonate of soda and 
afterwards a pinch of castor sugar stirred in will restore it. 

There is, perhaps, no gi'eater difficulty in modern 
housekeeping than that of insisting on the cleanliness of 
culinary utensils. Ordinary cooks are very careless in 
this matter, which in a great measure accounts for the 
inferior flavour of their dishes. Every lady who is her 
own housekeeper should make a periodical inspection of 
the hatteru de cuisine, and insist on the absolute purity 



HINTS OjV economical COOKERY. 25 

of every vessel. Copper stewpans will last a lifetime, 
but when those of tin and/ron have been long in use, or 
have been in any degree neglected, the expense of 
renewing them should be willingly incurred. A good 
cook will wash and scour her saucepans after every use of 
them, and only so can they be kept in such order as will 
•ensure the perfection of her cookery. 

Under the head of culinary utensils we would com- 
mend to every housewife Captain Warren's admirable 
pot, but, indeed, after having been before the public for 
so many years, it is surprising it should need any such 
commendation. When it is remembered that you have 
only to put the meat, with any vegetables — such as 
turnips, carrots, and onions — in one receptacle, the 
potatoes and a pudding in another — these last, of course, 
not taking so much time as the meat — put them on the 
fire, and let the pot continue to boil gently, to find, when 
the allotted time has expired, an admirably cooked dinner 
ready for table, it will be seen at once that there is a 
wonderful economy of time and trouble in using Warren's 
pot. Nor are these the chief points which will interest 
a good housekeeper. Meat cooked in Wan-en's pot has 
much more savour than when boiled or stewed, and there 
is absolutely no loss of weight or value in anything which 
is cooked in it. Captain Warren's pots are made in 
several shapes and sizes, for meat and vegetables, for fish, 
and for curries, and are to be procured, of excellent pattern 



24 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

and workmanship, of Constantine, 61, Fleet Street. Each- 
and all of them are on the same principle — that of 
cooking the several articles for which they are adapted 
without contact with water or steam. The food is cooked 
in its own vapour, and none of the nutritious properties 
are wasted. The outer cylinder contains the water ; the 
meat is placed in an inner receptacle, and, by merely 
keeping the water at boiling point, is most perfectly pre- 
pared for the table. It has been proved, by repeated 
trials, that meat, fish, and poultry when cooked in 
Warren's pot retain their nourishing properties, which if 
either stewed, steamed, or boiled, would be given off in 
vapour. By this method, the juices become condensed 
and are returned in moisture sufficient in quantity to- 
cook the viands in the most perfect manner. The steam- 
given off during the cooking is so slight as to be almost 
imperceptible, and there is absolutely no smell of cooking,, 
even when a large dinner is being prepared in the 
Warren's pot. It is particularly well adapted for any of 
the closed ranges now in use, and to gas, a very small ring" 
of which will keep it boiling steadily during the whole 
time of cooking. 

Thus it Avill be seen that ladies may, in default of a 
cook, by the aid of a gas stove and Captain Warren's pot^ 
serve a dinner for even a large family almost without 
previous experience of culinaiy matters, and certainly 
without watching and anxiety. The tendency in middle- 



HINTS ON ECONOMICAL COOKERY, 25 

class kitchens is to have the smallest possible number of 
utensils, and those of inferior kinds ; and it is surprising 
how slow ladies have been to adopt the many excel- 
lent machines and utensils of modern invention which 
have the threefold merit of saving time, money, and 
labour. 

In " the good time coming " let us hope that the 
kitchen department will be as carefully arranged as that 
of the drawing-room, and ladies be as well qualified to 
judge of the merits of a stove and a labour-saving ma- 
chine as they now are of the tone of a grand-piano, or a 
piece of art needlework. 



BKEAKFASTS. 



KIDNEYS SAUTfiS.— ROLLED MACKEREL.— 
BOILED BACON. 

Kidneys Sautes. 

Like many other articles of diet, kidneys within the 
last ten years have been doubled in price, and are so 
scarce as to be regarded as luxuries. The method of cook- 
ing them generally in use is extravagant, and renders 
them tasteless and indigestible. Kidneys should never be 
cooked rapidly, and those persons who cannot eat them 
slightly underdone should forego them. One kidney 
dressed as directed in the following recipe will go as far as 
two cooked in the ordinary manner — an instance, if one 
were needed, of the economy of well-prepared food. 

Choose fine large kidneys, skin and cut them the 
round way into thin slices, each kidney should yield from 
ten to twelve slices. Have ready a tablespoonful of flour 
highly seasoned with pepper and salt and well mixed 
together, dip each piece of kidney in it. Cut some neat 
thin squares of streaked bacon, fry them very slowly in a 
little butter : when done, put them on the dish for 



30 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

serving, and keep hot whilst you sauU the kidneys, which 
put into the fat the bacon was cooked in. Take care the 
fire is very slow, and that the kidneys cook gently ; if 
done fast they will be hard and indigestible. In about a 
minute the gravy will begin to rise on the upper side, 
then turn the kidneys and let them finish cooking slowly ; 
when they are done, as they will be in three to four 
minutes, the gravy will again begin to rise on the side 
which is uppermost. Put the kidneys on the dish with the 
bacon, and pour over them a spoonful or two of plain beef 
gravy, or water thickened with a little flour, boiled and 
mixed with the fat and gravy from the kidneys in the 
frying-pan. If there is too much fat in the pan, pour it 
away before boiling up the gi'avy. Serve the kidneys on 
a hot-water dish. 



Rolled Mackerel. 

Clean the fish, always being careful that the brown 
substance adhering somewhat closely to the back-bone 
near the head, and which causes the bitterness often so 
unpleasant in this fish, is removed. 

Take off the head, hold the fish in the left hand, and 
with the thumb and finger of the right press the back- 
bone to loosen it, then lay it flat on the board and re- 
move the bone, which will come out whole, leaving none 



BREAKFASTS. 31 



behind. Split the fish in half, lay on each piece half the 
roe (it should be soft), sprinkle over it equally and lightly 
pepper and salt, and flour, then roll up each piece tightly, 
tail outwards, and put them in a deep baking-dish, set- 
ting them close together, by which means they will keep 
rolled until cooked. Pour over them a pickle made of 
vinegar and a fourth part of water, pepper and salt, cover 
them with a plate, and put to bake in a slow oven for two 
hours. When done, dish up the fish carefully, strain the 
sauce over them, and garnish wdth fennel. They are 
excellent eaten cold ; should be turned in the liquor every 
day, and they will keep a week. 

Boiled Bacon. 

To boil good mild bacon or ham, put it, after having 
well washed and scraped it, into hot water, and allow it 
to boil gently until done. A piece of the back and rib* 
weighing three pounds will take about an hour and a half 
When done, take the pot off the fire, put a cloth under 
the lid to keep in the steam, and allow the bacon to get 
cool in the liquor. Eemove the skin, and either at once 
sift raspings over the top, or let the bacon cool and 
glaze it. 

An inexpensive glaze may be made by dissolving an 
ounce of Nelson's gelatine in half-a-gill of boiling water, 
and then addinor enouojh colourins: to make it a rich 



32 EVER Y DAY MEALS. 

brown. Brush over the ham or bacon with this glaze, 
and, if liked, ornament it with vermicelli stars. Throw 
the vermicelli into boiling water, and let it boil rapidly for 
two minutes, then drain it, take each star on the point of 
a skewer and drop it on to the glaze before it is set. The 
vermicelli can, if preferred, be used for decorating without 
boiling it. 



BROILED CHICKEN.— MUTTON PIES.— BOILED 
EGGS. 

Broiled Chicken. 

For this purpose a chicken should be small and young, 
if otherwise it must be parboiled before broiling. Split the 
chicken in half and brush over with dissolved butter, and 
during the cooking occasionally baste with it. Place the 
chicken, bones to the fire, on the gridiron, and let it 
remain slowly cooking for twenty minutes, then turn the 
meat side to the fire, taking care it does not stick to the 
gridiron, or the skin burn in the least, let it remain ten 
minutes, then again turn and baste it cleverly with a bit 
of butter tied in muslin, as thus you can put it equally on 



BREAKFASTS. 33 



the chicken without waste, lightly pepper and salt it, and 
when it has remained another five minutes (in all thirty- 
five minutes), serve it very hot. 

Mutton Pies. 

Mince a quarter of a pound of underdone mutton, taking 
care to have it free from skin and fat. Mix with it a 
tablespoonful of ricli gravy, that which is found under the 
cake of dripping from a joint is particularly suitable for 
this purpose, add a few drops of essence of anchovy, a 
pinch of Cayenne pepper, and a small teaspoonful of 
minced parsley. If necessary, add salt. 

Line your pattypans with puff-paste, divide the mutton 
into equal portions and put it into the pans, cover each, 
with a lid of paste, and bake in a quick oven for half-an- 
hour. 

Boiled Eggs. 

In boiling eggs care must be taken to have them 
covered with water, otherwise the upper side will be 
underdone, perhaps almost raw. The eggs must not be 
put into the water until it boils, and they must not then 
be allowed to boil too fast. The moment the allotted 
time has expired, the eggs must be withdrawn from the 
water. It is a good plan, if the time is taken by the 



34 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

clock, for the cook to say to herself, " they must boil 
until/' for instance, " one minute past number three," or 
" four minutes past number three,^' as the case may be % 
thus the time for taking up the eggs is impressed on 
the memory, which, if other things engage the attention, 
is important. New-laid eggs, if to be well set, require to 
be boiled for four minutes ; eggs which have been kept 
some time take three minutes to set. The eggs of some 
fowls, and those which have been preserved in lime, have 
often very thin shells, and are apt to burst when im- 
mersed in boiling water. It will generally be found that 
bursting of the shell will be prevented by putting the 
eggs into a saucepan of cold water, and allowing it to 
come slowly to the boiling point. Should the eggs be 
required lightly cooked, they will be done as soon as the 
water boils ; but if it is desired to have them firm, they 
should be allowed to remain in the water off the fire for a 
minute or two. 



SPICED BEEF.— POTATO CHIPS.— EGGS AU 
BERNAIS. 

Spiced Beef. 

For ten pounds of meat make the following pickle : — 
One pound of common salt, two ounces saltpetre, one 



BREAKFASTS, 35 



ounce of cloves, half-an-ounce of allspice, half-a-pound of 
coarse sugar. Let all these ingredients be thoroughly 
pounded and mixed together. 

Take ten pounds of the brisket of beef, rub it well 
with this pickle every day for a fortnight. When about to 
cook, roll it up as tightly as possible and tie it round with 
string, place it in a deep earthenware pan, with a little 
stock, or water, and cover the top with suet ; let it bake 
gently for four hours, or it may be boiled. When cold 
cut the string, and it will retain its form, glaze or cover 
with raspings. 



Potato Chips. 

Peel fine kidney potatoes, and slice them as thin as you 
can the round way ; as you do the chips throw them into 
cold water, as this frees them from the potato-flour, which 
has a tendency to prevent successful frying. Drain and 
lay them in a cloth to dry, put them into a wire basket, 
which immerse in a stewpan half- full of boiling fat, and 
when the chips are a light golden brown, put them between 
paper in the oven for a minute, turn them on to a dish, 
sprinkle salt and pepper over, and serve. 

The greatest care must be taken to have the fat the 
right temperature for frying the potatoes, as otherwise 
they will be sodden with grease. 

D 2 



36 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Eggs au Bernais. 

Dissolve a piece of butter the size of a walnut iu a 
stewpan, put a spoonful of gravy and one of milk, break 
three eggs into it, add pepper and salt, stir them with a 
wooden spoon over a slow fire until they begin to get 
lumpy. Then remove the stewpan from the fire, and 
continue stirring until the eggs are set. Have ready two 
slices of light bread toasted nicely and spread with butter, 
to which may be added a little essence of anchovy or 
anchovy paste. Pour the eggs on to the toast, and serve 
as quickly as possible very hot. 

Effner's condensed ^gg answers well for this dish, and 
is especially valuable when fresh eggs are scarce. 



MEAT CAKES A L'lTALIENNE.— ROLLED TONGUE. 
MARROW TOAST. 

Meat Cakes a ritalienne. 

Mince very fine any kind of cold meat or chicken, 
taking care to have it free from skin and gristle, add 



BREAKFASTS. yj 



to it a quarter of its weight of sifted bread crumbs, a 
few drops of essence of anchovy, a little parsley, pepper 
and salt, and sufficient ^gg to moisten the whole. Flour 
your hands, roll the meat into little balls about the size of 
a half-crown piece, then flatten the balls with the back of 
a spoon, dip them in ^gg and in fine bread-crumbs, and 
fry the cakes in a little butter until lightly browned on 
the outside. Put them on a hot dish, and garnish with 
boiled Italian paste. 



Rolled Tongue. 

To pickle the tongue put about half-a-pound of salt on 
it, let it remain twelve hours, then pour this off, and put 
a pound of fresh salt. Turn the tongue for three morn- 
ings, then add to the pickle an ounce of saltpetre and of 
bay salt, a teaspoonful of ground cloves and of allspice, 
and a quarter-of-a-pound of coarse sugar, turn the tongue, 
and rub the pickle well into it once a day for a fortnight, 
when it may be cooked. Put the tongue into sufficient 
hot water to cover it, and let it boil gently for from 
four to five hours, according to the size and quality. 
It must be perfectly tender, or it will not press well. 
Skin, and clear away all bone and gristle from the root of 
the tongue, which trim neatly, and scrape away any bits 
made dark by the pickle. Do this as quickly as possible, in 



38 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

order that the tongue may not get cold, hold it in a cloth 
and roll the tip into the middle, then put it into the 
collaring tin, and let it remain until the next day, It 
may then be glazed or not, according to taste. 

Marrow Toast. 

Let the butcher break up a marrow bone. Take out 
the marrow in as large pieces as possible, and put them 
into a stewpan with a little boiling water rather highly 
salted. When the marrow has boiled for a minute, drain 
the water away through a fine strainer. Have ready a 
slice of light toasted bread, place the mari'ow on it and 
put it into a Dutch oven before the fire for five minutes, 
or until it is done. Sprinkle over it a little pepper and 
salt, and a small teaspoonful of parsley chopped very fine 
The toast must be served very hot. 



ROULADES OF MUTTON.— BRAWN.— SOUSED 
HERRINGS. 

Roulades of Mutton. 

Remove the fillet from a fine loin of mutton, trim away 
every particle of skin, fat, and gristle. Flatten the fillet 



BREAKFASTS, 39 

with a cutlet bat, and cut it lengthways into slices as thin 
as possible; divide these into neat pieces about three 
inches long. Sprinkle each with pepper, salt, and finely- 
chopped parsley, roll them up tightly, dip in beaten 
egg, and afterwards in finely-sifted bread-crumbs, mixed 
with an equal quantity of flour, and highly seasoned with 
pepper and salt. As each roulade is thus prepared, place 
it on a game skewer, three or four on each skewer. Boil 
an ounce of butter in a small frying-pan, and cook the 
roulades in it. 

Brawn. 

Remove the tongue and brains from a pig's head, and 
lay all in salt for one day. Drain away the salt and put 
fresh, taking care that the head is well covered with it, 
and especially about the eyes and ears. In three days* 
time add to the brine a tablespoonful of allspice, black 
pepper, and crushed saltpetre. Turn the head well about 
in the pickle for three or four days more, when it will be 
sufficiently salted to make the brawn. 

Boil the head and the tongue until tender, then take 
the meat from the bones and cut it up as hot as you can. 
The brains should be tied in muslin and be boiled for half 
an-hour only. , Break them up and mix with the meat of 
the head. Season the whole with black pepper and all- 
spice, and, if necessary, add salt. Cut up the tongue, after 



40 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

skinning it, in large pieces, and mix it evenly with the 
meat. Have ready a collaring tin, put in the brawn, set 
a weight on the top, and allow it to stand until the next 
day. Kents' Brawn Mould effects the necessary pressure 
by a regulating screw, and is a gi'eat improvement on the 
old method. 

Excellent brawn may be made economically by using 
only the eye-pieces, ears, tongues, and brains of two heads 
reserving the cheeks for chaps. The butcher will, if 
directed to do so, divide the heads in this manner. 

Soused HerriDgs. 

Choose herrings with soft roes, and take care they are 
thoroughly cleansed. Fishmongers seldom send them in 
fit, in respect of cleanhness, for cooking. Lay the fish in 
an earthenware baking-dish, sprinkle them lightly with 
pepper and salt, and a very small pinch of allspice, and 
cover them with vinegar and water in the proportion of 
one part water to three parts vinegar. 

If the flavour is not disliked, a bay leaf and a shalot or 
a thin shred of garlic may be added to the pickle. Cover 
the baking-dish closely, and put it in a slow oven for twa 
hours. Let the fish get cold, wipe each on a clean, dry 
cloth, lay them on a dish and garnish with green celery 
tops or w^ater-cress. 



BREAKFASTS, 41 



EAISED PORK PIE.— BAKED SOLES.— OMELETTE 
AUX FINES HERBES. 

Raised Pork Pie. 

Take a pound of meat, fat and lean, from the chump 
end of a fine fore loin of pork, and cut it into neat dice, mix 
a tablespoonful of water with it, and season with a large 
teaspoonful of salt and a small one of black pepper. 

To make the crust, boil a quarter of a pound of lard or 
clarified dripping in a gill and a half of water, and pour it 
hot on to one pound of flour, to which a good pinch of salt 
has been added. Mix into a stiff paste, pinch off enough of 
it to make the lid, and keep it hot. Flour your board, and 
work the paste into a ball, then with the knuckles of your 
right hand press a hole in the centre, and mould the paste- 
into a good round or oval shape, taking care to keep it a 
proper thickness. Having put in the meat, join the lid 
to the pie, which raise lightly with both hands so as to 
keep it a good, high shape, cut round the edge with a 
sharp knife, and make the trimmings into leaves to orna- 
ment the lid, and having placed these on, with a rose in 
the centre, put the pie on a floured baking-sheet and 
brush it over with yolk of egg. The crust of the pie 



42 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

should be cool and set before putting it into the oven, 
which should be a moderate heat. When the gravy boils 
out the pie is done ; an hour and a half will bake a pie of 
this size. Make a little gravy with the bones and trim- 
mings of the pork, it must be strong enough to jelly, and 
be nicely seasoned with pepper and salt. When the pie is 
■cold remove the rose from the top, make a little hole, in- 
sert a small funnel, and pour in as much gravy as the pie 
will hold, which will be about a gill. Replace the rose 
on the top, and put the pie on a dish with a cut paper. 

If preferred, the pie can be made in a tin mould, but 
the crust is nicer raised by the hand. A great point to 
observe is to begin moulding the crust whilst it is hot, 
and to get it finished as quickly as possible. 

Baked Soles. 

Small soles called " slips " are excellent baked, and are 
generally to be bought at a reasonable price. Scrape, but 
do not skin, the soles ; dissolve a little butter in a baking 
tin, pass the white side of the fish through it, sift very fine 
•dry bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt over this, 
lay the sole black side downward in the baking-dish, and 
bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. If when done 
the soles are not browned the salamander must be used. 
As a breakfast dish the soles should be served without 
any sauce. 



BREAKFASTS, 43 



Omelette aux Fines Herbes. 

Break three eggs into a basin, with a pinch of salt 
and three dessert spoonfuls of milk or cream, beat them 
for three minutes, and mix in a small teaspoonful of green 
parsley, a shred of shalot minced as finely as possible, and, 
if attainable, a small pinch of green chervil, also minced. 
Put an ounce of butter into a clean, bright frying-pan, 
and let remain over the fire until it begins to brown, 
pour in the omelet mixture, and hold the pan still over a 
moderate fire for half a minute, then with a fork keep 
stirring in the middle or at the edges until the omelet is 
beginning to set over the whole surface, and is taking 
colour on the under side. Shake round and round until 
you find the omelet quite loose in the pan, and a nice 
brown, then slide half of it on to a dish, and with a slight 
jerk turn over the other half, so as to have the omelet of 
a neat oval shape. Take care not to cook the omelet 
too much, it ought to be lightly set on the inner side. 
An omelet to be successfully cooked should not be more 
than a minute and a half over the fire ; if subjected to 
too great a heat it will be burned, and if, on the other 
hand, it be too slowly cooked it will be tough. Some 
practice will be required to gain proficiency in the art of 
making omelets, and it is well for beginners not to at- 
tempt a larger number than three eggs. The pan should 



44 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



be of a small size for this number of eggs, as the omelet 
must not be thin like a pancake. Attention is directed 
to the method of stirring an omelet : if this is done over 
the whole surface the result will be a hard, leather-like 
composition ; whereas if the omelet-mixture is only gently 
stirred at the edges, the pan being slightly held on one 
side to facilitate the operation, it will eat like a light yet 
solid custard. Nothing can be simpler, when once ac- 
quired, than this method of making omelets ; it is, how- 
ever, difficult to describe in writing. The omelet must be 
served the moment it is done. 



BROILED MACKEREL.— SAVOURY EGGS.— POTTED 

BEEF. 

Broiled MackereL 

When the fish are split open wipe them carefully with 
a dry cloth, sprinkle them lightly with pepper and salt, 
and hang them up in a cool place with plenty of air until 
the next morning. Take care to keep the fish open 
when you hang them up. Whea ready to cook the mack- 
erel dissolve half an ounce of butter or bacon fat for each 



BREAKFASTS. 45 



fish, and pass them through it on both sides, lay them on 
a gridiron over a very slow fire, turn them very frequently, 
basting now and then with a little butter. When the fish 
is last turned, sprinkle finely-chopped parsley on the upper 
side, and serve very hot. The fish must be very slowly 
cooked, and they will take at least twenty minutes. If 
put over a fierce fire mackerel is rendered hard and indi- 
gestible, and the fish itself is unjustly blamed, but if the 
above recipe is followed, a most delicious dish will be pro- 
duced. 



Savoury Eggs. 

Cut up into dice a slice of cold boiled bacon fat and 
lean, weighing about two ounces. Mix with it a small tea- 
spoonful of chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt, 
put this in a shallow tart dish and pour over it three 
eggs beaten up, with a tablespoonful of milk and one of 
gravy. Bake in a moderate oven until the eggs are set. 

Potted Beef. 

To make the finest kind of potted meat use steak, take 
away all skin and sinew, cut the meat into very small 
pieces and put it into a covered earthenware pot, which 
place in a saucepan of water or in the oven and let it cook 
gently until all the gravy is drawn. Pour off the gravy, 



46 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

keep it for future use, and pound the meat in the mortar 
until perfectly smooth. To each pound of meat put a 
quarter of a pound of fresh butter or of cold boiled fat 
bacon pounded in the mortar, two tablespoonfuls of essence 
of anchovy, a small teaspoonful of pepper and salt to 
taste. Put the meat into the covered jar as before and 
let it cook gently until the mass is hot through. When 
taken up stir occasionally until nearly cold, then press it 
into little pots, and the next day pour over each, so as 
effectually to exclude the air, sufficient clarified butter or 
mutton suet to cover it. 

The meat which has been used for making beef tea 
answers well for potting, and much time and trouble is 
saved by the use of Kent's Combination Mincer (Topham's 
patent), instead of the pestle and mortar. This machine by 
a special action reduces the meat to a fine pulp with gi*eat 
ease and rapidity, and is besides invaluable for all kinds 
of mincing operations. 



BROILED OR DEVILLED CHICKEN LEGS.— EGGS 
SUR LE PLAT.— SHEEPS' TONGUES. 

Broiled or Devilled Chicken Legs. 

For this dish use the legs of either roasted or boiled 
chicken. Take the skin off the legs, with a sharp knife. 



BREAKFASTS. 47 



score the flesh on both sides of the bone. Mix a small 
teaspoonful of salt and half a teaspoonful of pepper, addirig^ 
a little cayenne if the broil is required to be hot, with 
half an ounce of dissolved butter, stir in half a teaspoonful 
of essence of anchovy. Spread this mixture over the 
chicken legs, getting it in between the scoring as well as 
you can. Lay the legs on a gridiron over a slow fire, 
turning them every minute for ten or twelve minutes. 
Serve either with toasted bacon, pouring any fat which 
has run from it over the chicken, or a little dissolved 
butter. 

Chicken legs may also be broiled without using the 
piquant paste, and in this case should be scored, dipped in 
bacon fat or butter, and sprinkled with pepper and salt. 
If properly cooked, broiled chicken will not be the least 
hardened on the outside, nor will it be in any degree 
blackened. 



Eggs sur le Plat. 

For four eggs put half an ounce of fresh butter, bacon 
fat, or oil into a tin dish and let it get hot in the oven. 
Break the eggs one by one into a cup, and drop them 
carefully so as not to break the yolks, into the dish. Set 
the dish either on the range or in the oven at a low heat 
taking care that the cooking proceeds slowly. When the 
eggs are lightly done they can be transferred to another 



48 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

dish or served on toast. An earthenware dish can be used 
for cooking instead of one of tin, in which case the eggs 
will be sent to table on it. 

Sheeps' Tongues. 

Strew salt over the tongues and let them lie until the 
next day, then drain off all that has run from them and 
put them in the following pickle : — A tablespoon ful of 
salt, half a one of bay salt, a teaspoon ful of saltpetre, a 
pinch of allspice and black pepper. Two days after put a 
spoonful of sugar. This quantity will be enough for two 
or three tongues. Four or five days will salt them. Boil 
them gently until perfectly tender, and when they are 
skinned, if to be eaten hot, split them down the middle, 
dip them in dissolved butter and then in fine bread 
crumbs, and let them brown nicely on the gridiron. If to 
be served up cold, glaze them. Pigs' tongues are excellent 
cooked in this manner. 



rONDU.— BROILED BACON.— POTTED SALMON. 

Fondu. 

Soak the crumbs of a French roll or about the same 
quantity of other light bread in a quarter of a pint of 



BREAKFASTS. 49 



boiling milk, beat it up smooth and add to it two ounces 
of any cold meat minced very fine ; a little cold boiled 
bacon or ham is a gi*eat addition, and an onion b oiled very 
soft and beaten to a pulp. Season highly with pepper 
and salt, and stir in the yolks of two eggs well beaten. 
Butter a tart dish, and when ready to bake the fondu beat 
the whites of the eggs to a strong froth and mix together, 
put it into a hot oven immediately and bake for twenty 
minutes. Serve with a httle good gravy in a boat. 

Sausage meat may be substituted for cooked meat, in 
which case a little more time must be given to bake the 
fondu. If preferred use a little finely minced parsley in- 
stead of the onion. 

Broiled Bacon. 

The best part of bacon for toasting or broiling is that 
known as the " streaky," and it is best toasted before a 
clear fire. The slices of bacon should be cut less than a 
quarter of an inch in thickness, be divided into convenient 
lengths, and have the rind removed. To have broiled 
bacon in perfection it must be very slowly cooked, rapid 
cooking hardens the lean and renders it most indigestible. 

It is a common practice with cooks to put slices of 
bacon into the frying-pan and frizzle them rapidly over 
the fire, but such a practice is greatly to be condemned. 
Bacon cannot be thus fried and be good for human food. 



50 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

but it can be most successfully cooked slowly in the 
frying-pan, or, to use the French term, be saute. The 
idea that bacon is so fat in itself that it does not require 
other fat in which to cook it is erroneous, a small quantity 
of butter, bacon-fat, or lard is absolutely necessary. When 
the fat is hot put the slices of bacon in the frying-pan, 
which hold over a slow fire. Turn the bacon repeatedly, 
taking care there is no sound of frying, but only a gentle 
movement of the fat. To cook bacon properly in the 
frying-pan allow from ten to twelve minutes, and do not 
let it become the least brow^n. 

Potted Salmon. 

Pick the fish carefully from the bones and pound it to 
a paste in a mortar. Put it in an earthenware jar, which 
place in a saucepan of boiling w^ater. As soon as the fisb 
gets hot stir in a fourth of its weight of fresh butter and 
a little essence of shrimps or of anchovies to heighten the 
flavour. If necessary add a little salt and Cayenne pepper 
to taste. Stir the fish occasionally until nearly cold, then 
press it into small pots, and the next day cover them with 
clarified butter or other good fat. Any kind of fish can 
be potted in this way, and will keep for a week or ten 
days. 



BREAKFASTS. 51 



BROILED KIDNEYS.— EGG CUTLETS.— PIGS' FEET 
A LA ST. MENEHOULD. 



Broiled Kidneys. 

These are quite an epicure's disb, and care must be 
taken to cook them slowly. Having skinned the kidneys 
(they must not be split or cut) dip them for a moment in 
boiling fat, place them on the gridiron over a slow fire, 
turning them every minute. They will take ten to 
fifteen minutes to cook, and will be done as soon as the 
gravy begins to run. Place them on a hot dish rubbed 
over with butter, salt and pepper them rather highly. It 
must be understood that kidneys thus cooked ought to be 
a little underdone, and that when they are cut at table 
the gravy should run from them freely and in abundance. 

Egg Cutlets. 

These are very good, and if carefully cooked need not 
be too rich. Cat hard-boiled eggs into thick slices, dip 
them in the yolk of an Qgg well beaten, and then in 
finely sifted bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, 
and a pinch of dried parsley. Have a little butter in the 

E 2 



52 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

frying-pan ; let the eggs cook two minutes on one side, 
turn them on the other and finish. When taken from the 
frying-pan lay them before the fire on white paper to 
absorb the grease. Serve a little thickened gravy round 
them. 



Pi^'s' Feet a la St. Menehould. 

If possible get the feet of large bacon pigs, as they 
make a much better dish than those of small ones. Boil 
them very gently for ten or twelve hours, or until the 
bones will slip out easily. If boiled fast the meat of the 
feet will be hard and broken, whereas if properly boiled 
they will retain their shape and eat as tender as chicken. 
If the feet have been salted, let them soak for two or three 
hours before putting them on to boil in cold water with an 
onion, bay leaf, and two cloves, and if the feet are fresh, 
as they should be, with a little salt. When done, divide 
each down the middle, draw out the long bones, and let the 
feet get cold. Dip each piece in dissolved butter, and then 
in very fine dry sifted bread-crumbs. Put them on the 
gridiron over a slow fire, and let them cook until hot 
through and the crumbs are nicely browned ; they will, of 
course, require to be turned occasionally. Serve cold. 
This is the French manner of preparing pigs' feet, and is 
much superior to that which prevails in this country, and 



BREAKFASTS. S3 

as will be seen, it is the time and trouble given to the pre- 
paration of the dish, which convert it from a very humble 
and indigestible into an elegant and perfectly wholesome 
one. 



MUTTON COLLOPS.— POTATO SNOW.— FRIED 
MUSHROOMS. 

Mutton Collops. 

Cut neat thin slices from a leg of either roasted or 
boiled mutton, dip them in yolk of ^gg, and in fine dry 
bread-crumbs, to which a little flour, pepper, and salt has 
been added. Boil enough butter in a small frying-pan to 
just cover the bottom, put in the slices of mutton, cook 
them very slowly, first on one side, then on the other 
until they are brown. Garnish the dish in which the 
mutton is served with the potato snow, fried potatoes, or 
potato chips. 



54 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Potato Snow. 

Rub three or four cold white potatoes through a sieve, 
put them into a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of hot 
milk or cream and half an ounce of butter dissolved in it. 
Add a pinch of salt and of w^hite pepper, and stir the 
potato over the fire until it begins to get dry. Serve 
piled high on a dish, with the mutton coUops round it. 

Fried Mushrooms. 

For this purpose the large black mushrooms are best, 
and they must be fresh. If quickly grown, the forced 
will be found as good as the field mushroom ; in either 
case, care must be taken to have them free from grit. Put 
a good slice of butter or lard into a frying-pan large 
enough to hold the mushrooms, and, when hot, put them 
in with the white side downwards, having previously 
skinned them and trimmed the stalks. Sprinkle pepper 
and salt over the mushrooms and let them cook very 
slowdy, and if the butter dries up add a little more. In 
ten minutes turn the mushrooms, and let them finish 
cooking, still very slowly, on the other side. When done 
place the mushrooms on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, 
and garnish the dish with fried bread. 



BREAKFASTS. 55 



PRESSED OX CHEEK,— BLOATERS.— SCALLOPED 

EGGS. 

Pressed Ox Cheek. 

The whole or a portion of an ox cheek can be used for 
?this purpose, as may be convenient. Thoroughly cleanse 
the cheek, boil it for ten minutes in water, with a little 
salt, which pour away, thus ensuring perfect cleanliness. 
Again cover the head with salted water, and boil an ox 
heel, or a pound of the rind of pork with it until both are 
perfectly tender. Take out the bones, chop up the meat, 
season highly with pepper and salt, — a small quantity of 
allspice is an improvement — and press the meat into the 
collaring tin as directed for brawn. The liquor the 
•cheek is boiled in will, with the addition of vegetables, 
make excellent soup. 

Bloaters. 

To have these in perfection they should not be split 
•open. Care is required to cleanse them properly, and a 
little practice will enable the cook to succeed in this all- 
important particular. 



56 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

In the first place make a very slight cut in the back of 
the head, which twist off with the fingers, and the intes- 
tines will come with it. Hold the bloater under the tap 
and let the water rush rapidly through it. This done, 
wipe it dry, put it on a gridiron over a very slow fire, 
turn it frequently until it begins to smoke, when it will 
be done. 

Scalloped Eggs. 

Take a cupful of finely-sifted bread-crumbs, moisten' 
them with a little cold milk, cream, or gravy, and season 
nicely with pepper and salt. Put a thin layer of the- 
moistened crumbs on a lightly-buttered dish, cut two hard 
eggs into slices and dip each piece in very thick well- 
seasoned Avhite sauce, or in good gravy made thick, 
enough to adhere to the eggs. Having arranged the 
slices of egg neatly on the layer of moistened bread- 
crumbs, cover them with another layer of it, and on the 
top strew thickly some pale gold-coloured raspings. Bake 
in a moderate oven for ten minutes. If potatoes are 
liked they make a nice substitute for bread-crumbs. 
Take some mashed potatoes, add to them a spoonful of 
cream or gravy, and proceed as with bread-crumbs — serve 
gravy with this dish. 



BREAKFASTS. 57 



BREAKFAST BEVERAGES. 



Tea. 



There are few housewives who will admit that they 
require directions for making tea, and it is indeed sur- 
prising that the few simple rules for ensuring a good cup 
of it are so frequently ignored or neglected. Everyone 
knows that in order to have tea properly made water must 
boil, but many persons are ignorant of the fact that water 
twice boiled, or allowed to continue boiling for several 
minutes, will not make good tea. The aroma which is so 
grateful and refreshing in well-made tea is lost when 
water is employed which, either from being in itself hard;, 
possessing any peculiar property, from being below boiling 
point, from having been a considerable time on the fire, or 
having remained boiling for more than a minute, is un-^ 
suitable for making tea. 

One other cause why tea which is made from good 
material often tastes flat is that the teapot is not kept 
clean. It is the practice with many servants from one 
year's end to another to rinse out the tea-pot after use in 
the water, often greasy, in which the crockery- ware has 



58 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

been washed, and to put it away without drying the 
inside. The effect of this practice is to cause a thick in- 
crustation to gather inside the pot, which lovers of tea 
should know is nothing more nor less than dirty. After 
■each use tea-pots should be rinsed with boiling water, and 
be thoroughly dried out, the inside being kept as bright as 
the outside. Earthenware tea-pots are preferable to 
metal, yet if strict cleanliness be observed there is no 
objection to the use of the latter. The rule of " a spoon- 
ful of tea for each person, and one for the pot," is a good 
one. Before putting in the tea rinse the pot with boiling 
water, then somewhat slowly pour on the whole quantity 
of water required, leaving a little room for the leaves to 
swell. If the water is poured slowly on the tea as directed, 
ihe leaves will not rise to the surface, but should this happen 
stir well together with a silver spoon. Let the tea stand 
for at least ten minutes, and, if it has not been previously 
•done, stir once during this interval. Should the water be 
Tery hard, a small quantity of soda may be used — it 
should be added after the water is poured on the tea. 
Wliilst the tea is infusing keep the pot covered with a 
cozy. 

Coffee. 

The method of making coffee is almost as simple as 
that of making tea, yet, from neglect of the most ordi- 



BREAKFASTS. 59 



nary precautions, and the liabit of hurrying the operation, 
faikire in it is rather the rule than the exception. Qood 
coffee cannot be made in haste, nor from any but the 
freshest and best material, and that in sufficient quantity. 
Whenever possible coffee should be roasted at home, and 
used within two or three days. There is an admirable 
machine for this purpose to be had at Kent's, High 
Holborn. In no case should coffee be ground until 
required for use, and the first cost of a mill will soon 
be repaid in the saving effected by it. The kind of berry 
to be used must depend on individual taste, but that 
which meets with most general acceptance by true lovers 
of this beverage is a mixture of Mocha and West Indian 
or plantation coffee. 

Although there are several excellent inventions for 
making coffee, there is no better pot than that well-known 
among us, and in general use in France, the ordinary tin 
or earthenware co.fetiere. Among the best patent inven- 
tions is one of Kent's, which has a special advantage for 
making cafe cm Ictit, as milk can be boiled in it whilst 
coffee is also making. Ashes' Kaffee Kanne also makes 
very good coffee. As before remarked, good coffee can 
only be made with a liberal allowance of the raw material. 
Two ounces to a pint of water will be required to make 
coffee strong. Put the coffee in the upper part of the 
cafetiere, and, having placed the piston over it, pour water 
boiling from the kettle very slowly until you have about 



6o EVERY DAY MEALS, 



half the required quantity. Put the pot in a warm place^ 
or cover with a cozy, and let it stand until all the liquid 
has drained into the lower pot. Then . pour in, still 
slowly, the remaining quantity of water, and when all 
has drained through the coffee will be ready ; if to be 
served in another pot, rinse it out with boiling water. 

Uninstructed people say that " by boiling all the good 
ness is got out of coffee." In one sense this is true, for 
the fine aroma is dissipated by boiling, as well as the pro- 
perties which render the beverage so refreshing and 
useful. 

The earthenware fire-proof cafetihre is to be had in 
London at Turner's, 9, Oxford Street. 

The advantages of its use are that perfect cleanliness is 
readily ensured, that coffee may stand and be put away in 
it without injury to the flavour. Coffee should not be 
allowed to get cold in any metal pot. 

When milk is required to give the richness to coffee 
usual in French cafe au Iccit, put it in a stewpan on a hot 
plate, let it remain at a heat just below boiling point for 
half-an-hour, when the watery portions will have evapo- 
rated and the milk be reduced to half the original 
quantity ; or, put the milk in a stewpan with Kent's milk 
saver, by the use of which it cannot boil over, and let it 
boil gently for ten minutes, or until considerably reduced 
in quantity. 



BREAKFASTS. 6i 



Cocoa. 

The best and most digestible beverage is undoubtedly 
that made from the nibs. These should not be too highly 
roasted, and it is a good plan to grind or crush them before 
boiling. A large pot should be kept for the purpose, and 
alwa3^s stand on the corner of the range when cocoa is 
required for daily use. 

A much richer beverage is produced, if the old nibs are 
allowed to remain in the pot, and a small quantity of 
fresh ones be added daily until the pot is half full. But 
many persons prefer clear cocoa, and in this case fresh 
nibs only must be used for each decoction. 

To a quart of water allow a tea-cupfall of nibs, boil 
slowly for at least six hours, filling up the pot to keep 
the original quantity. When done, strain and allow the 
cocoa to get cold, then skim off every particle of fat 
which may have risen ; boil up again and serve. 

A cheap, excellent, and wholesome beverage can be 
made from cocoa-shells, a pound of these costing but 
threepence. Cocoa is made in exactly the same way from 
them as from the nibs, allowing a breakfast-cup of shells 
to each quart of water. 



62 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Chocolate. 

The quantity of chocolate to be used must depend on 
the desh'ed thickness and the quality of the material. 
The chocolate of the Comjxcgnie Coloniale maintains its 
superiority, and two recipes for its use are given. 

Put a pint of water in a perfectly clean stewpan, break 
up a stick of chocolate, drop it in, boil very slowly until 
all is dissolved, stirring occasionally. Serve wdth the 
milk. 

The second method by which a rich beverage is ob- 
tained is as follows : Grate a stick of chocolate, stir it 
into half-a-pint of boiling milk in a stewpau, whisk it 
over the fire, and as the froth rises, take it off, put it into 
the chocolate pot, which must be kept hot, and continue 
whisking until all is done. 



FAMILY DINNEKS AND LUNCHEONS. 



ROASTED LEG OF MUTTON.— YORKSHIRE PUD- 
DING.— BROWNED POTATOES.— RICE PUDDING. 

Roasted Leg of Mutton. 

A great French writer on culinary matters has said 
that to roast well a cook must be born with a talent 
for roasting. Whether this be true or not, it is certain 
that a cook who can roast a joint of meat properly and 
send up a so-called plain dinner, such as the above memo 
is capable of acquiring the highest branches of the culinary 
art. Inexperienced cooks should bear in mind that no rule 
of time can apply for roasting, unless the joint is subjected 
in the first place to a considerable degree of heat, which 
within ten minutes must be lessened and kept moderate 
and equal for the necessary time. This gi'eat heat in the 
commencement of the process is necessary in order to close 
the pores and prevent the escape of the juices of the meat, 
and the slower heat following will gradually reach the 
bone and render the joint succulent and delicious. 

In the case of roasting by an open range, the fire 



66 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

should be so prepared before putting down the joint as to 
last, with but slight addition of fuel, during the whole 
time of cooking. Dripping should if possible be made hot, 
and the joint be basted with it as soon as it goes to the 
fire. A meat screen is indispensable, and the joint should 
be basted every ten minutes. The old rule of a quarter 
of an hour to a pound of meat is a good one, but one 
hour and three quarters will, if the process is properly 
carried on, be sufficient to roast a leg of mutton w^eighing 
eight pounds to perfection. 

In roasting by any kind of closed range the greatest 
care should be taken to have the ovens clean. If any 
fat or products of former cookery are suffered to 
remain, they wall impregnate the meat with an odour 
wdiich is not onl}^ most unpleasant but positively 
unwholesome. A roasting oven if properly ventilated, 
scrupulously clean, and supplied with a double dripping 
pan, the under of which must contain w^ater, will cook 
joints of meat in great perfection, and there cannot be 
any reasonable objection urged against roasting by this 
method. 

To roast by gas the same general rules as above apply, 
and it is most important that the cooking should proceed 
slowly. In roasting by a gas oven constructed on proper 
principles, as for example, Leoni's, a considerable saving is 
effected, as the loss by evaporation is much less than by 
any other method. The meat, moreover, requires no 



FAMILY DLVNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 67 

l)asting or other attention, from the time it is placed in 
the oven until it is done, and the most fastidious 
<eater could not discover any difference between a joint so 
'Cooked and one roasted before the fire. 

The gravy for roasted meat should be clear, tasty, and 
brown, and this can always be made from bones and 
scraps, or better still, from the rich deposit of jelly found 
beneath the dripping of joints previously roasted. This 
with the addition of water or the water in which green 
vegetables have been boiled, with a few drops of colouring, 
will make gravy sufficiently good for every day fare. 
The practice of making gravy in the dripping pan is 
•objectionable, not only because gravy so made is apt to be 
.greasy, but because the serving of the joint whilst hot 
is very often delayed by it. 

Yorkshire Pudding. 

Before the introduction of the closed range, Yorkshire 
puddings were always cooked in the dripping pan after 
having been " set " in the oven. A very good batter 
pudding, suitable for eating with meat can be baked, but 
it is impossible it can resemble those finished under a 
joint of meat roasted before the fire, or in Leoni's gas 
oven, in which the meat is suspended. To make the 
batter, mix ten ounces of the finest flour in a jjill of 
cold water, add by degrees a pint of new milk, when it 

F 2 



68 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

is quite smooth and free from lumps add a pinch of salt, 
the yolks of two eggs, and, when ready to cook the pud- 
ding, beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth and 
stir them in briskly. Let two tablespoonfuls of good 
dripping get very hot in a tin baking-dish, into which 
pour the jDudding, and put it into the oven for a quarter 
of an hour or until the batter is set. Put the dish with 
the pudding in the dripping-pan under the meat, let it 
remain for an hour when it should be brown. AYhen you 
take up the pudding, drain all the fat from it, slide it on 
to a hot dish, cut it into neat square pieces, and serve. 

Browned Potatoes, 

Peel and prepare the potatoes in the usual way and 
boil or steam them for a quarter of an hour if of average 
size, if small somewhat less time. Drain the potatoes, put 
them in a baking dish with some dripping, bake them in 
a quick oven basting occasionally for forty minutes, or 
until they are perfectly brown. They must, when done, 
be diy and free from fat. If there is no pudding in the 
dripping pan, the potatoes can be bro^\Tied imder the 
meat, and indeed are better than when baked. Potatoes 
for browning should always be parboiled ; as, if leaked raw, 
the outer crust is indisfestible. 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 69 



Rice Pudding. 

This recipe is for a good family pudding : the eggs can, 
if desired, be omitted. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice until soft, drain it dr3\ 
Boil a pint of milk, pour it whilst boiling on to two eggs 
well beaten ; sweeten with two ounces of raw sugar, and 
flavour with grated nutmeg or lemon peel. Mix this 
-custard with the rice, add an ounce of beef suet shred 
very finely ; put the pudding into a tart dish, and bake it 
in a slow oven for an hour. 

If more convenient, the rice may be baked in water 
instead of being boiled, and the pudding be finished in 
t-he same manner in either case. 



SPRING SOUP.— PIE OF STEWED SHIN OF BEEF.— 
COCOA PUDDING. 

Spring Soup. 

Cut up two pounds of the scrag end of a neck of 
veal, put it on to boil in two quarts of cold water, with 



70 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 

two teaspoonfuls of salt. As soon as the water boils; 
carefully skim the pot, and having done so, add half-a- 
pound of onions, two turnips, a small carrot, a tiny bit of 
mace, a spng of thyme, and four white peppercorns. Let 
the soup boil gently for three hours, adding a little water 
from time to time in order to keep the original quantity. 
When it has boiled enough, strain the soup through a 
colander, and then through a napkin. It should now be- 
perfectly clear, but if there is any fat, when cool remove- 
it. 

Cut up a dozen small spring onions, the same number 
of heads of asparagus, into the size of peas, and boil them, 
in salted water until tender. Cut up one small cabbage 
lettuce into fine shreds, throw into boiling water with salt, 
and let it simmer a minute, or until tender. When these 
vegetables are" ready strain away the water and put them 
into the tureen, and having made the soup boiling-hot 
pour it on to them, and serve. The soup may require a 
little additional salt, and if liked, a pinch of cayenne and 
a lump of sugar. 

Pie of Stewed Shin of Beef. 

Stew the roll of a shin of beef, weighing about three 
pounds, with a pound of onions, a turnip and carrot, a 
quart of water, a tablespoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful 
of pepper. The beef will take from two to three hours 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 71 

to cook, according to its age and quality, and when done 
it must be perfectly tender without being ragged. Cut 
the meat into slices, the round way, place it in a pie dish, 
beat the vegetables cooked with it to a fine imvee^ mix 
this with the gravy, which should be reduced by boiling 
in a stewpan without the lid to half-a-pint, and pour it 
over the meat. Half a pound of uncooked ox kidney, or 
mushrooms if in the country and they are plentiful, are 
excellent additions. Make a crust as follows : — 

Scrape very fine three quarters of a pound of beef- 
suet, weigh a pound of fine flour, roll a little of the suet 
with a little of the flour into flakes until all is worked up, 
mix into a paste with rather less than half a pint of cold 
water, and roll out very thin. Fold the paste over to the 
required thickness, put a thick layer round the edge, and 
cover the pie in the usual manner. 

The quantities given above are for a large family-pie, 
which will be sufficient for eight persons. Equal quanti- 
ties of suet and flour should be used if a superior crust 
is required. Crust thus made is very good, and if 
properly managed should be as light and good as that 
made with butter, and as it is to be eaten hot is more 
wholesome and digestible than the latter. 

An excellent pudding can be made of the stewed shin 
proceeding in the same manner as for rump-steak pudding. 



n EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Cocoa Pudding. 

Boil half-a-pound of light stale bread in a pint of new 
milk, stir continually until it becomes a thick paste, then 
add an ounce of butter, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar 
and two large teaspoonfuls of Van Houten's cocoa, with a 
little vanilla flavouring. Take the pudding off the fire 
and mix in first the yolks of three eggs, then the whites 
beaten to a strong froth. Put into a buttered tart-dish, 
and bake in a moderate oven for three quarters of an 
hour. 



HERRINGS WITH MUSTARD SAUCE.— BOILED LEG 
OF MUTTON.— SEMOLINA BOTTASSO PUDDING. 

Herrings with Mustard Sauce. 

Put a tablespoonful of the finest salad oil into a dish, 
pass the herrings through it on both sides. The fish must 
not be opened, and, with a little care, can easily be 
properly cleansed. Lightly pepper and salt the herrings, 
which should have soft roes, and let them lie for an hour. 
Place them on the giidiron over a very slow fire, turn them 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 73 

often until done ; they will take from fifteen to twenty 
minutes. 

To make the sauce for eight herrings take half-a-pint 
of white stock, stir into it, whilst boiling, an ounce of fine 
flour, and a teaspoonful of French mustard mixed smooth 
in a little cold water, continue stirring over the fire until 
thickened, add an ounce of butter and a large pinch of 
parsley chopped fine, pepper and salt to taste. Stir the 
sauce until the butter, which should be broken into little 
bits, is dissolved, and be careful it does not boil after this 
addition. Lay the herrings on a hot dish, pour the sauce 
round them, and serve. 



Boiled Leg of Mutton. 

Put the leg of mutton into a pot of boiling water suffi- 
cient to cover it. To each gallon of water allow two table- 
spoonfuls of salt and a large teaspoonful of pepper, with 
the turnips and carrots which are to be served with the 
meat. Allow the pot to boil fast for ten minutes ; then 
-skim, and draw it to the cooler part of the range, and keep 
it just at boiling point for the requisite time. A quarter 
of an hour to the pound of meat is sufficient, and if the 
leg weighs more than eight pounds, time may be calcu- 
lated something less. If there is no objection, a few 
onions should be boiled with the meat, and they may be 
mashed with the turnips or served whole. 



74 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

To mash the turnips, rub them through a colander into 
a stew pan, add a small piece of butter and a spoonful of 
cream, if convenient, work the 'purde over the fire with a 
wooden spoon until it is diy. Cut the carrots into neat 
pieces and serve in a vegetable dish round the mashed 
turnips. 

It is customary of late to pour caper sauce over the 
mutton, but this should not be allowed, both because it is 
not good style, and because many people object to it. A 
Qupful of the liquor in which the meat was boiled, 
sufficiently salted, may be poured on the dish. 

Caper Sauce. 

Boil a tablespoonful of capers Avith half a pint of water 
in a stewpan without the lid for ten minutes. Mash the 
capers with a wooden spoon so as to bruise each one. 
Make the water boil up, and stir in one ounce of fine flour 
mixed smooth in a gill of cold water. When it has 
thickened stir in an ounce of butter, let it dissolve, add a 
pinch of salt, and, if the sauce is not sufficiently acid, a 
little vinegar. 

When the bottle containing capers is put away, take 
care to fill it up with fresh vinegar, as this prevents mould 
and loss of flavour. 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 7S 



Semolina '^Bottasso" Pudding. 

Soak an ounce and a half of the semolina in a gill of 
milk for ten minutes, stir it into three gills of boiling 
milk, add an ounce of lump sugar and boil gently for 
twenty minutes stirring all the time. Take the semolina 
off the fire and stir in quickly the yolk of an ^gg^ beaten 
up with a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring, and 
put it immediately into a mould previously rinsed with 
cold water. This can be served as a hot pudding, as after 
standing for ten minutes it will turn out in shape ; but if 
allowed to remain until cold will eat like a rich and 
delicate cream. The recipe is for " Bottasso's " semolina,, 
an excellent and cheap article of food ; the ordinary kind 
can be used, but will require longer boiling and will not 
be so delicate. 

Syrup, preserve, or stewed fruit can be eaten with the 
pudding. 



76 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



MILK SOUP.-RUMP STEAK.— HARICOT BEANS.— 
PANCAKES. 

Milk Soup. 

Boil four onions, two turnips, and a piece of celery, all 
fninced in a quart of water with a teaspoonful of salt and 
a large pinch of white pepper until tender, then rub them 
through a sieve to a pulp. Mix this with the water the 
vegetables were boiled in, with a quart of milk, let it boil 
up, stir in two tablespoonfuls of French potato-flour mixed 
smooth in half a pint of cold milk. Stir over the fire until 
it has thickened, add pepper and salt to taste, and a tea- 
spoonful of castor sugar. Serve with fried bread. 

Rump Steak. 

Choose that which the butchers caU a " point steak.'' 
It is not only the most economical, but the best cut of the 
rump. If there is any doubt about its being tender use 
the kreatome, or steak tenderer, and having done so, put 
a teaspoonful of vinegar in a dish, pass the steak through 
it on both sides, and allow it to lie for at least an hour. 
Vv^hen the time for cooking arrives, sprinkle each side of 
the steak with pepper and salt, put it on a gridiron over a 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. n 

clear fire, and cook quickly at first, to slightly harden the 
outside and cause the meat to retain its juices. With the 
steak-tongs turn the steak every minute, this prevents the 
possibility of its getting dry, as well as the loss of gravy, 
A steak of average thickness will take from ten to twelve 
minutes to broil properly. 

If there is no objection to the flavour of shalot, shred 
one as finely as possible, put it on the dish on which the 
steak is to be served with a slice of butter, put it into the 
oven whilst the steak is cooking. Home-made catsup may 
be substituted for the shalot, or butter alone be used. 
When the steak is done, pass it on both sides through the 
butter, sprinkle over it a little more pepper and salt, and 
take care to serve very hot. Should the fire be slow, the 
steak must only be turned every two minutes, and when 
done it should be a rich brown on both sides. 

The cooks of fifty years ago were averse from the prac- 
tice of beating steaks ; and, no doubt, in those days, when 
the edible animals, as a rule, were kept to a proper age 
before killing, and it was thought disgraceful to fatten up 
old cows or worn-out ewes for the market, it was un- 
necessary. Dr. Kitchener says : — " Do not beat steaks, 
which vulgar trick breaks the cells in which the gravy of 
the meat is contained, and it becomes dry and tasteless. 
N.B. If your butcher sends steaks vjldcli are not tender, 
y\Q do not insist that you should object to let him be 
beaten ! " 



78 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

Fillet steak should always be peppered and salted for 
several hours before cooking, as the flavour is thereby 
much improved. A favourite accompaniment to this dish 
is onaitre cVhotel butter, which is finely minced parsley 
mixed with cold butter, pepper, and salt. A small piece 
of this mixture should be laid on each slice of fillet the 
moment before it is sent to table. 



To Cook Haricot Beans. 

Put the beans in plenty of cold water, when they boil 
throw in a little salt, let them boil about two hours, and 
when the skin begins to crack strain away all the water, 
which put aside to help make soup, and put a thick cloth 
over the beans. Put the saucepan on the hob for one 
hour for the beans to steam, by this time the little water 
left with them will have dried up, and the beans will be 
thoroughly cooked and mealy. 

Haricot Beans Fried. 

Prepare the beans as in the foregoing recipe, put a little 
sweet dripping into a ste^vpan, let it come to a froth, then 
put in the hot cooked beans wdth a very little chopped 
sage, toss them about with a w^ooden spoon till they are 
a pale gold colour ; add a little pepper and salt, and serve 
very hot. 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 79 



Pancakes. 

Mix eight ounces of the finest white flour with three 
gills of milk. Take care to mix the batter very smooth, 
putting a little milk at a time to the flour and working 
together by degrees. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, 
stir them well into the batter, add a pinch of salt, and 
when ready to fry the pancakes beat the whites of the 
eggs to a strong froth and stir them in lightly. Before 
commencing to fry the pancakes, dissolve two ounces of 
butter in the fryingpan, pour it into a basin, and for each 
pancake use one dessertspoonful of this dissolved butter. 
"When this is hot enough, measure four tablespoonfuls of 
batter into a cup, pour it into and let it run thinly over 
the pan, which hold over a brisk fire and shake gently 
until the under side is brown and the upper side set. 
Toss it, and let the other side brown ; slide it on to a dish, 
sift sugar and fold the pancake into an oval shape, keep 
hot whilst the remainder are fried. This quantity of 
batter will make seven pancakes fried in a pan eight 
inches in diameter. ^ 

It is usual to fry pancakes in lard, but they are only fit 
for the most robust digestions, and are rarely eaten with 
impunity. The art of tossing pancakes is one easily 
acquired. The cook should practice by tossing a plate 
mat of a piece of millboard cut to the shape of her pan ; 



8o EVERY DAY MEALS. 

when she has learned to toss this, she will find it perfectly 
easy to manage a pancake. Many cooks recommend that 
batter should be made some hours before required for use, 
but the writer, in her own practice, has found if the batter 
is carefully mixed as directed, this is not necessary. 



SEMOLINA SOUP.— IRISH STEW.— JAM PUDDING 

Semolina Soup. 

Use semolina "Bottasso." Boil a quarter of a pound 
in a quart of water for twenty minutes. When done, add 
the semolina and the water in which it has boiled to a 
quart of stock rich-flavoured with vegetables. Boil 
together for a minute, and serve. 

Irish Stew. 

It is better and more economical for a family to make 
Irish stew of the scrags of mutton than of the best end of 
the neck. Two scrags of mutton, weighing together about 
four pounds, will make a dish sufficient for seven or eight 
persons. Divide the meat into convenient pieces for 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 8r 

serving, put it on to boil very gently for two hours with 
sufficient water to cover it, salt, pepper, and four or five 
onions, or more if they are liked by the family. Take 
care that the mutton cooks very slowdy ; wdien it is tender 
enough, strain away the gravy, and carefully remove every 
particle of fat ; put a layer of sliced potatoes at the bottom 
of the saucepan, then the meat and onions, over this 
another layer of potatoes, about two pounds of which will 
suffice, then pour in the gravy, well seasoned with pepper 
and salt, cover the stewpan closely, and simmer the stew 
until the potatoes are properly cooked. 

Many people think that potatoes contain some poisonous 
quality which is drawn into the water in which they are 
cooked, and therefore prefer to boil them before adding 
them to the stew. By so doing, the fine flavour the 
potatoes should give to the stew is lost. There is reason 
to think that the popular belief in potato water being 
unwholesome has no foundation in fact. It is indeed 
possible that being cooked with meat before the fat is 
removed from the gravy, the potatoes absorb too much 
grease and so become rich and indigestible, and that thus 
the idea of a poisonous principle has gained ground. 

Jam Pudding. 

This pudding may be made in the same way as Treacle 
Pudding, or as follows : — Rub a pint basin with butter. 



82 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



cut thin slices of light stale bread and line the sides, 
putting a round slice at the bottom. Shred an ounce of 
beef suet fine, put a little on the round, then a spoonful 
of raspberry or strawberry jam, then another round of 
bread, more suet and jam, and so on until the basin is 
full, leaving a round of bread at the top by way of a cover. 
Boil half a pint of milk with an ounce of sugar, pour it 
over an ^^^g lightly beaten, and add it slowly to the 
pudding. Cover with a paper cap, and steam for an hour. 



STEWED BEEF STEAK.— SUET DUMPLINGS.— 
BOILED POTATOES.— BREAD PUDDING. 

Stewed Beef Steak. 

Beef steak stewed according to this recipe is useful 
Avhen there is not time to prepare a thick slice in one 
piece, nevertheless, to have it tender and in perfection, an 
hour and a half is required for stewing. 

Get a pound and a half of buttock steak, without extra 
fat ; first cut it in long thin strips, then in neat small dice. 
Have ready a pint of boiling water with half a teaspoonful 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 83 

•of salt and a large j)inch of pepper ; put in the meat, let it 
boil for a few seconds sharply, then moderate the heat so 
that the meat will only simmer until done. Half an hour 
after the meat begins to cook put in two or three minced 
onions. When the meat is perfectly tender, stir into the 
gravy two tablespoonfuls of flour mixed smooth in half a 
pint of cold water, and a little more salt and pepper if 
necessary, and as soon as the gravy has thickened put the 
stew on a dish and garnish with suet dumplings. 



Suet Dumplings. 

Scrape two ounces of fine beef suet very thin, mix it 
with three ounces of flour, a pinch of salt, and water to 
make a stiff paste. Flour your hands and roll the paste 
into balls about the size of a florin, have ready a stewpan 
half filled with boiling water slightly salted, drop in the 
dumplings and let them boil fast for twenty minutes, take 
them up with a fish slice and place them round the 
stewed steak. If preferred, these dumplings may be made 
of dripping or butter in the proportion of two ounces of 
the fat to four ounces of flour. A small pinch of sage 
and pepper can, if liked, be used as flavouring for the 
dumplings. 



G 2 



84 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Boiled Potatoes. 

It is a matter both of taste and convenience whether 
potatoes be boiled with or without their skins, but the 
idea that any great economy is effected by the former 
method is erroneous. If the potato boiled in its skin is of 
a friable nature and thoroughly well done, it is apt to break 
in peeling ; and the haste in which this process is often 
necessarily accomplished at the moment of serving dinner 
is a great disadvantage. 

At different seasons of the year potatoes require special 
modes of treatment, and they take a longer or shorter 
time according to the size and kind. Experience alone 
can teach the art of cooking potatoes to perfection, and by 
far the best and nicest way is to steam them. 

For boihng potatoes in their skins, wash them in luke- 
warm water, and scrub them with a brush kept for the 
pui-pose, afterwards rinsing them in cold water. Put the 
potatoes in a saucepan that will just hold them, sprinkle 
salt over and cover them with cold water, let them boil 
gently until done, drain away all the water, cover the 
potatoes with a cloth, shake them, allow them to remain 
for five minutes. Take each potato in a cloth, hold it in 
your hand and peel it carefully with a knife. Serve 
immediately. 

To prepare potatoes for boiling without their skins, 
wash and brush them, put them into a pan of cold water, 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 85 



peel each one as thin as possible and take out the eyes, 
and as you do them throw them into a pan of clean cold 
water. Potatoes may be thus prepared many hours before 
it is time to cook them, and if care be taken to cover them 
with cold water they will look all the whiter and be 
more floury for lying all night. Put the potatoes in a 
saucepan of cold water with salt, let them boil until they 
begin to look floury, but are still not quite done through, 
drain away the water, cover the potatoes closely with a 
nice linen cloth, put on the lid and set the saucepan on 
the range for ten or fifteen minutes until the potatoes 
resemble a ball of flour. 

If convenient to steam potatoes, sprinkle them with salt 
when put into the steamer, and when they are done cover 
them with a cloth in the same way as for boiled potatoes, 
take the steamer off the saucepan, put it on a cool part of 
the range, and when it has stood for five minutes, serve 
the potatoes. 

A very general impression prevails that a small quan- 
tity of potatoes cannot be successfully steamed, but even 
two may be exquisitely cooked if a fine clean cloth which 
will fill up the steamer be placed over them, as this keejos 
in the steam and prevents the potatoes becoming watery. 

Bread Pudding. 

This pudding can be made of any stale pieces of bread, 
the lighter kinds being preferable. Break the bread into 



86 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

small pieces, put it into an earthenware pan "vvitli suffi- 
cient water to cover it, drain this away, and let the bread 
stand for an hour, when squeeze it as dry as possible. To- 
a pound of bread thus prepared put an ^gg beaten up in 
half a pint of boiling milk, sugar to taste, and an ounce of 
finely shred beef-suet. Flavour with nutmeg, pudding 
spice, or grated lemon-peel ; put the pudding into a tart- 
dish rubbed over with butter or lard, and bake in a 
moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. 

If it is desired to have sauce, make it as follows : — 
Stir into half a pint of boiling water a dessertspoonful 
of corn-flour mixed smooth in a gill of cold water, let it 
boil up, sweeten with golden syrup or sugar, add the juice 
of half a lemon or a pinch of tartaric acid, and an ounce 
of butter stirred into the sauce just before serving. 



BREAD SOUP.— LIVER AND BACON.— TREACLE 
PUDDING. 

Bread Soup. 

Boil four minced onions, two turnips, and a small stick 
of celery, also minced, in a quart of water with a table- 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 87 

spoonful of salt. When the vegetables are tender add 
another quart of water, break in half a pound of light 
bread-crusts and boil gently for twenty minutes. Stir the 
bread until broken up, add an ounce of butter, pepper 
and salt to taste, and a teaspoonful of finely-shred 
parsley. 

Liver and Bacon. 

Take care to have the liver fresh and do not cut it up 
until ready to use it, then divide it into neat slices, dip 
each in flour highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Cut 
the bacon into thin rashers (the fatter it is the better), 
melt a bit of dripping or other fat in a saucepan, place 
the liver on this, keeping the slices as close together as 
you can, shred an onion very fine, sprinkle it over the 
liver, then put in the bacon and cover the saucepan 
closely ; put it on the hob and let it stand cooking as 
slowly as possible for an hour. Be sure the liver does not 
boil or fry, as then it will be hard. When done put the 
liver on the dish for serving, boil up the bacon in the 
gravy quickly for a minute, thicken it with flour and 
water, season to taste, and pour it over the liver. 

Treacle Pudding. 

Shred half a pound of beef suet, roll it into ten 
ounces of fine flour, mix into a paste with a gill of cold 



88 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

water, roll it out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, 
and line a pint-and-half basin, which has been well 
rubbed with butter, with it. Cut the remainder of the 
paste into rounds the size of the interior of the basin, put 
a dessertspoonful of treacle in the pudding, then a round 
of paste, and so on until the dish is full, putting a. round 
of paste on tlie top and fastening it securely to the sides. 
Tie over with a cloth and boil or steam for an hour and a 
half. When done turn out the pudding, have ready half 
a pound of treacle made hot in a stewpan, pour it over 
and serve. There should not be more than half a pound 
of treacle boiled in the pudding. 



MUTTON BROTH— ROAST PORK.— APPLE SAUCE. 
—WARWICKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Mutton Broth. 

Wash and break up into very small pieces two pounds 
of the scrag end of a neck of mutton, put it on to boil in 
a gallon of water with a tablespoonful of salt. As soon as 
it boils take off any scum which has risen, and put into 
the pot a pound of onions, four large turnips, two carrots, 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 89 

and if convenient a couple of leeks. When the broth 
has boiled for an hour add a small stick of celery, boil 
for another hour, strain, remove any fat, add pepper and 
salt to taste, pour the broth on to a quarter of a pound of 
Italian paste, or vermicelli, previously boiled, and put into 
the soup tureen. Serve chopped and scalded parsley 
separately. 

Roast Pork. 

Great care is necessary in choosing pork. In the Lon- 
don market it is sometimes difl&cult to get fine full-grown 
meat, the butchers preferring to sell what they call " daiiy 
pork." Unless of a very fine quality and well fed, this class 
of meat is greasy and indigestible, and is also wasteful. Pork 
known as hog meat is for every reason to be preferred. 
It is prepared for towns at the farms, the fat being re- 
moved, and only the prime joints sent to the butchers. 
These have fine white fat, the lean being a clear, 
pinkish white, well veined with delicate streaks of fat, 
and on a slight pressure with the finger yielding a deep 
indentation. The fore loin of pork, the bladebone having 
been removed, is the most profitable for family use, and 
it is an economy to buy the whole, using the best end for 
roasting, the chump for sausages, forcemeat, or curries. 
The flavour of sage and onion with pork is objectionable 
to some persons, but minced shalot with sage is generally 



93 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

acceptable, because milder and more digestible. With 
two teaspoonfuls of dried and sifted sage mix one tea- 
spoonful of finely minced shalot, two teaspoonfuls of salt,, 
and one of black pepper. Put some of this mixture be- 
tween each of the bones, and rub a httle on the outside of 
the meat. Do this if possible the day before cooking it. 
Pork requires to be well done and to be roasted quickly. 

Apple Sauce. 

Quarter and pare good cooking apples, put them in a 
stew-pan with a little water, cover close, and stew the 
apples until they will pulp. If the apples are of a hard 
kind and will not break up, rub them through a coarse 
sieve. Put the pulp back into the stewpan ; if it is too 
liquid stir it over the fire until dry enough, then add raw 
sugar to taste, half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit 
is usually sufficient. Stir the sauce over the fire until 
well mixed, smooth, and diy. Some persons like a little 
mustard and a pinch of salt added to the sauce at the 
same time as the sugar. 

Warwickshire Pudding. 

Butter a pint and a half tart dish, lay in it a layer of 
light bread cut thin, on this sprinkle a portion of two 
ounces of shred suet, and of one ounce of lemon candy 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 91 

peel chopped very fine. Fill the dish lightly with layers of 
bread, sprinkling over each a little of the suet and peel. 
Boil a pint of milk with two ounces of sugar, pour it on 
two eggs beaten for a minute, and add it to the pudding 
just before putting it into the oven ; a little extract of 
lemon or shred lemon peel may be added to the custard- 
Bake the pudding in a very slow oven for an hour. 



SHEEP'S HEAD SOUP.— PJSSOLETTES.— BEATRICE 
PUDDING. 

Sheep's Head Soup. 

This recipe is cheap and good, and is especially suitable- 
for the family table and for the poor. 

If a sheep's head is bought without tongue or brains^ 
the cost of the soup will be reduced, or, if bought whole,, 
the latter should be reserved to make breakfast dishes. 

Having most thoroughly washed and cleansed the head^ 
boil it for five minutes in two quarts of water with a 
little salt. Drain away this water, and thus perfect 
cleanliness will be ensured. Put the head on again with 
three gallons of cold water, half a pound of bacon, four 



-92 E VER V DA V MEALS. 

pounds of onions, two pounds of carrots, one pound of tur- 
nips, one clove of garlic, a large teaspoonful of black 
pepper, two large tablespoonfuls of salt. Let tlie bacon 
and vegetables be cut up small, and boil altogether for 
two hours, or until the head is tender, which take up, 
•and having carefully removed every particle of bone, chop 
the meat small and return to the soup. Mix one i30und 
of flour or of oatmeal smooth in a quart of cold water ; let 
the soup boil up, stir in the thickening, let it boil for five 
minutes if 3^ou use flour, and for fifteen minutes for oat- 
meal. Add salt and pepper to taste. A little celery is a 
great improvement to the soup, as is also chopped parsley 
added at the same time as the thickening. 

Eissolettes of Beef or Mutton. 

Mince the meat very fine, taking care it is free from 
••skin and gristle, add to it about a fourth of its weight in 
bread crumbs. Mix them with an onion boiled until per- 
fectly tender, a few drops of essence of anchovy, pepper 
^nd salt, and sufficient egg to make it all into a stiff 
paste. Koll into egg-shaped balls, dip each in egg and 
bread-ciimibs, and fry very gently. One egg, if well 
•beaten, will suffice both to mix and egg the outside of a 
dozen rissolettes of moderate size. Make a little gravy 
of the water the onion was boiled in and the trimmings 
of the meat, and when the rissolettes are done pour the 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. ()3. 

fat from the frying-pan, in which let the gravy boil up, 
then thicken with a little flour and water. A few drops. 
of vinegar or any sharp sauce may be added with advan- 
tage, season with pepper and salt, and pour the gravy- 
round the rissolettes. 

If convenient to fry the rissolettes in the wire basket 
and with hot fat as for croquettes, it is better to do so. 

Beatrice Pudding. 

Soak a quarter of a pound of light bread in half a pint 
of new milk, add an ounce of very fresh beef kidney suet^ 
shred as finely as possible. Boil, stirring vigorously until 
this becomes firm, take it off the fire, stir in the beaten 
yolks of two eggs, and put the pudding into a buttered 
tart dish. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, then 
spread over the top of the pudding, which should not more- 
than half fill the dish, a layer of orange marmalade. 
Whisk the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, mix lightly 
with them a quarter of a pound of the finest sifted sugar, 
spread this meringue mixture over the marmalade, put. 
the pudding again into the oven, which must be slow, and 
let it remain until the top is a light golden brown. 



94 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



CABBAGE SOUP.— MUTTON PASTY.— ITALIAN 
MACAROXL— PLAIN APPLE CHARLOTTE. 



Cabbage Soup. 

Wash and trim a fine young cabbage with a good white 
heart, cut the leaves into fine shreds, and boil them until 
tender in a quart of water. Add the cabbage and the 
water in which it was boiled to a quart of good broth, the 
liquor in which mutton or pork has been boiled, or indeed 
■any fresh pot liquor answers well, season with pepper and 
salt, and just before serving stir in an ounce of fresh 
butter and two lumps of sugar. The cabbage should be 
in sufficient quantity to make the soup thick. 



Mutton Pasty. 

This dish can be made from the remains of a joint or of 
the scrag of mutton previously stewed. 

If the pasty is to be made of cold, roasted, or boiled 
mutton, cut the slices about a quarter of an inch thick, 
and lay them in a large pie-dish. Have ready some 
onions boiled until tender, put on the meat a layer of 
these, then sprinkle over with pepper and salt, add enough 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 95 

gravy, or if you have none, of the water in which the 
onions were boiled, to cover the meat, taking care not to 
have the dish more than three parts full. Boil and mash 
•enough potatoes to fill up the dish, lay them in lightly, 
mark the top in diamonds with a knife, and bake in a 
moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. 

To stew the scrag of mutton for a pasty, put it on with 
•enough water to cover it ; pepper, salt, three onions, a tur- 
nip, and a carrot. Simmer very gently until the meat is 
perfectly tender, remove it from the bones, and place it in 
a pie-dish with the vegetables minced. Take the fat off 
the gravy and add it to the meat. 

Stewed sheep's head makes an excellent pasty, and is 
•economical. 

Italian Macaroni. 

Throw a quarter of a pound of the best Italian maca- 
roni into three pints of boiling water with a small tea- 
spoonful of salt, and let it boil fast for twenty minutes. 
Drain the macaroni as dry as possible in a colander, put 
it into a clean stewpan with a gill of good gravy, an ounce 
of fresh butter, and an ounce of gi-ated Parmesan, or other 
cheese. Stir over a slow fire for five minutes, and serve. 

If mushrooms are plentiful, a few stewed in the gravy 
before putting it to the macaroni make an excellent 
addition. 



96 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Plain Apple Charlotte. 

Put a dozen apples in a tin baking dish with a few 
spoonfuls of water, and bake them in a slow oven until 
done. Apples slowly baked do not burst and lose their 
juice, as they do when baked too quickly. ^\Tien done 
carefully scrape out all the pulp of the apples, and put it^ 
with sufficient sugar to make it sweet enough, into a 
stewpan, stir it over the fire until it begins to get stiff^ 
put it in the centre of a dish, and place round it a border 
of bread, fried as follows : cut the crumb of a small tin loaf 
into triangles about half-an-inch'thick, throw them into fat 
hot enough to brown them instantly, let the pieces fry for 
lialf-a-minute, take them up, and put them between paper 
to absorb any fat clinging to them, dip each triangle into- 
golden syrup, and arrange them round the apple, which 
should be hot. Apricot jam is preferable to golden syrup- 
but is more expensive. 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 97 



MASHED PARSNIPS.— FEIED BREAD.— STEWED OX 
HEART.— BATTER PUDDING. 



Mashed Parsnips. 

Wash and scrape a large parsnip, cut it into eight 
lengths, and having divided them in half, put them into a 
quart of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and an 
ounce of good dripping. Boil the parsnip until perfectly 
tender, it will take about two hours to cook. Take it up, 
drain and press the parsnip in a colander to get out as 
much moisture as possible, and with a wooden spoon 
mash it quite smooth, then put it into a clean stewpan 
with an ounce of fresh butter, or a tablespoonful of milk 
or cream, add salt and pepper, and stu' the parsnip over 
the fire for five minutes, and take care to serve hot. 



Fried Bread. 

Heat a pound of frying fat to the proper temperature, 
place half-a-pound of light bread, cut into dice, in the 
frying-basket, shake out the loose crumbs, plunge the 
basket into the fat, move it about until the bread is a 
golden brown, then turn it on to paper to diy, and it 

H 



98 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

is ready. Bread properly fried will be crisp, but not the 
least hard, and is an excellent addition to many dishes. 

Stewed Ox Heart. 

Divide the heart down the middle, rub flour over it and 
fry it until of a nice brown on both sides. When this is 
done put it into a saucepan with enough water to cover it, 
a sprig of thyme, a large pinch of pepper, a teaspoonful of 
salt, and three or four onions. Let the saucepan simmer 
for two hours, or until the heart is perfectly tender. 
When done thicken the gravy with floiu' mixed smooth in 
a little cold water, add salt and jDepper, if necessary, 
and a pinch of brown sugar. 

For a pudding prepare the heart as above, stewing it 
for one hour only, cut it in slices, and put it with its 
gravy and some sliced potatoes, with pepper and salt, 
into a pudding basin lined with crust made of dripping 
or suet. Boil the pudding for an hour and a half, or 
according to size. For a pie stew the heart until tender, 
cut it into neat pieces, put them in the pie-dish with 
minced onion, the gravy, or some water, and, if con- 
venient, a quarter of a pound of beef kidney, cut into 
small pieces. Cover the dish with pie-crust, and bake 
for an hour, or longer if the oven is slow. 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. 99 



Batter Pudding. 

The great secret of making a light batter pudding lies 
in mixing the flour very thoroughly with water, before 
adding the milk, and in well beating the yolks and whites 
of the eggs separately. Mix half-a-pound of flour smooth 
in a gill of cold water, add by degrees a pint of milk, 
a pinch of salt, and tlie yolks of two eggs. Grease a basin 
and when ready to boil the pudding, beat up the whites 
of the eggs to a strong froth, stir them in, pour the pud- 
ding into the basin, cover with a cloth, and boil for an 
hour and a quarter. If preferred, the pudding can be 
baked, and a pinch of baking powder added at the last 
moment will make it lighter. 



PEA OR LENTIL SOUP.— FISH PIE.— BOILED OAT- 
MEAL PUDDIXO. 

Pea or Lentil Soup. 

Dried peas contain a high degree of nourishment, and 
deserve to be more generally in favour than they are. 
Lentils, which are a foreign variety of pea, are even more 
nutritious than those of English growth, and it is well 

h2 



loo EVERY DAY MEALS. 

known that the "Eevalenta Arabica" is prepared from 
them. The flour of peas, which is sold " to thicken soup in 
a few minutes," is, as a rule, destitute of the fine dietetic 
quality of the dried vegetable itself, and there is no valid 
reason for its use. As a rule, w^hen pea soup is given at 
dinner the other dishes should be light, not because the 
peas are in themselves indigestible, but because, com- 
bined with food of an equal value, the digestive organs 
may be too severely taxed. Thus fish pie, as in the above 
menu, is suitable, as are all dishes containing but a small 
proportion of animal food. 

Peas are excellent for children in combination wdth 
milk, and in some cases a puree, made of equal quanti* 
ties of well boiled rice and peas, will be found more suit- 
able than peas alone. 

Dried peas should always be soaked, and, where large 
quantities are used, it is desirable to grind them, as they 
then take less time to cook. Put the peas to soak in cold 
water for twelve hours, skim off any which float on the 
surface, drain, and tie them loosely in a cloth, which 
plunge into a saucepan containing plenty of cold water 
and a piece of washing-soda the size of a hazel-nut to each 
quart. The time the peas will take depends much on 
their quality ; but they should be soft in less than three 
hours. When done take the peas out of the cloth ; if they 
will not beat up easily to a pulp, pass them through 
a coarse sieve, using milk or broth to facilitate the process. 



FAMILY DINNERS AND LUNCHEONS. lor 

When perfectly smooth, mix the prepared peas with broth 
of any sort in which a liberal allowance of fresh vegetable 
roots, turnips, carrots, onions, and celery has been boiled. 
If liked, a pinch of curry powder is an excellent addition. 
An economical and nourishing pea soup can be made 
with peas, prepared as directed, mixed in the broth in 
which bacon or fat pork has been boiled ; care must be 
taken not to make the soup salt. Dried and sifted mint 
is usually served with pea soup, and in cases where there 
has not been vegetables boiled in the broth and it is not 
too salt, celery salt may be used to advantage. Fried or 
toasted bread should be served separately. 

Fish Pie. 

Take a pound of any cooked fish very carefully picked 
from bone, and mix it with a sauce made as follows : 
Boil the bones in a small quantity of water for twenty 
minutes, when cold mix a gill of the liquor with two 
ounces of fine flour, and stir over the fire until it thickens, 
add two ounces of butter, keep stirring rapidly until well- 
mixed in, take the sauce off the fire, mix in an Qgg, a 
large teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, the same quantity 
of lemon juice, a large pinch of salt and a small one of 
cayenne pepper. The sauce should be very thick, and 
some care will be required in stirring it over the fire. Mix 
the picked fish and the sauce together. Put a layer of 



I02 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

fine mashed potatoes at the bottom of a taii:-dish, then all 
the fish, and over this another layer of potatoes. Smooth 
the top over neatly, and bake in a moderate oven 
for twenty minutes. If preferred, the potato can be 
spread on a bright tin dish, the fish be placed high in the 
centre of it, and then be thoroughly covered over with 
potato. This has a better appearance than when cooked 
in a tart-dish, but is not so nice, as too much potato is 
required to cover the fish up thoroughly. 

Boiled Oatmeal Pudding. 

This is a cheap and nice family pudding. — Mix a 
quarter of a pound of coarse oatmeal in half-a-pint of cold 
water, and stir on to it a pint of boiling milk or water, 
add an ounce of shred suet or any other fat, two eggs, a 
little spice, sugar to taste, and, by way of a treat, two 
ounces of sultana raisins. Put the pudding into a greased 
basin, cover with a cloth, and boil for an hour and a half. 

Make a sauce to eat with the pudding as follows : — 
Boil an ounce of currants in half-a-pint of w^ater for five 
minutes, break up the currants wdth a spoon, and stir in 
a tablespoonful of flour mixed smooth in a little cold 
water, add a little spice and sugar to taste. Children like 
the sauce without the cun^ants if sweetened with treacle. 



FISH. 



On Frying Fish. 

Perhaps there is nothing in the whole range of cookery 
which will so test the powers of a cook as a plainly fried 
sole or whiting. Yet there is nothing difficalt in the oper- 
ation if attention is paid to a few simple elementary rules. 
A very common excuse with cooks for failure in this matter, 
is the quality of the fish they have had to dress. If it is not 
brown they say it was stale and would not cook properly ; 
if underdone it had been kept too long on ice, with a 
number of other reasons 'equally fallacious. The fact is 
that, although it will not taste good, stale fish will brown 
and cook as well as that which is perfectly fresh. Of late 
years raspings have been much used for frying fish ; if of 
a very pale colour, and sifted as fine as possible, they may 
be used, but properly prepared bread-crumbs are gi-eatly 
to be prefeiTed. Bread two days old should be chosen, 
and after being broken up and rubbed through a coarse 
strainer, should be put into the oven at a low heat 
or on the range to dry, then the crumbs should be pressed 
through a very fine strainer, and if at all moist, again 
dried in the oven. Crumbs properly prepared will keep a 



io6 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

long time. When the cook is at leisure, she should get a 
quantity of crumbs ready, for if not at hand when wanted 
she will be placed at a disadvantage. 

The bread-crumbs being ready, they should have two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a 
large pinch of pepper mixed with them to the proportion 
of a quarter of a pound of crumbs. As a matter of eco- 
nomy, both the white and yolk of an ^gg may be used for 
egging the fish, but it is better to use the yolk only with 
a very little of the white. Unless the fish has been most 
thorouQ^hly dried in a cloth, the eoo- and crumbs will not 
adhere properly. The frying-pans in ordinary use will not 
admit of sufficient fat being used to cover the fish ; it is, 
therefore, necessary to turn it, whicli can be readily 
managed when the fish is half done, that is, properly 
browned on the under side. The fat must be the right 
temperature when the fish goes in, that is 850', which will 
give the usual domestic test of browning instantly a piece 
of bread dipped in it. Any one with the least experience 
should know when fried fish is done without cutting it. If 
a fork or skewer is thrust into the thickest part of the 
fish, it will stick and be difficult to withdraw if the fish is 
not done, but if, on the contrary, it is done, the fork will 
come out with great ease. Large thick fish are not suit- 
able for frying whole, they should be filleted, stewed, or 
boiled. 



FISH. lor 



Fried Sole. 



Soles weighing from three-quarters of a pound to a 
pound are the most suitable size for frying whole. If it is. 
desired to have the fish juicy and with their full flavour, 
do not have them skinned. The black side of the soles- 
will not of course look so well or be so crisp as the white 
side, but this is of little consequence compared to the 
nourishment sacrificed in removing the skin. Have the 
soles scraped, wipe them, put a tablespoonful of vinegar in 
a dish, pass the fish through it, and let them lie an hour,, 
or more, if convenient, as the flavour is thus improved. 
When ready to cmmb the fish, lay them in a cloth and 
thoroughly dry them. Beat up the yolk of an egg mth a 
very little of the white, this will be sufficient to egg a pair 
of soles, pass the fish through the egg on both sides, hold 
it up to drain, have ready on a plate a quarter of a pound 
of very fine dry crumbs, mixed with flour, salt, and pepper. 
Draw the fish over the crumbs, first on one side, then on 
the other, and lay it gently on a dish black side down- 
wards, whilst you prepare another. Some people succeed 
better in crumbing fish by sifting the crumbs on to it 
through a very fine strainer after it is egged. When the 
fish are ready, put them black side downwards into the 
frying-pan with plenty of fat, hot enough to brown a piece 
of bread instantaneously, move the pan about gently, and 



io8 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

when the soles have fried four minutes, put a strong 
cooking fork into them near the head, turn the white side 
downwards, and fry three minutes longer. Seven minutes 
will be sufficient to fry a sole weighing three-quarters of a 
pound, and a pair of this weight are sufficient for a party 
of six persons. When the sole is done, put the fork into the 
fish close to the head, hold it up and let all the fat drain 
away, lay it on a sheet of cap paper, and cover over with 
another sheet. Being thus quite free from grease, of a 
rich golden brown, crisp, and with an even surface, lay the 
fish on the dish for servinof, which should have on it 
-either a fish paper or a napkin neatly folded. 

A well-fried sole is best eaten without the accompani- 
ment of any sauce, but, in deference to the national usage 
butter sauce or melted butter may be served with it. 

Filleted Soles. 

It is better for the cook to fillet the soles, for there is 
often much waste when it is done by the fishmonger. 
Having skinned the fish with a sharp knife, make an 
incision down the spine bone from the head to the tail, 
and then along the fins, pass the knife between the flesh 
and the bone, pressing rather hard against the latter, and 
"the fillets will then be readily removed. These can now 
be dressed in a variety of ways, perhaps the most delicate 
for breakfast is the following : — 



FISH. 109 



Fillets of Sole Sautes. 

Having dried the fillets divide them into neat pieces 
two or three inches long, dip them in the beaten yolk of 
Q.ggy and then in seasoned bread-crumbs. Make a little 
butter hot in the frying-pan, put in the fillets, and cook 
them slowly until brown on one side, then turn and finish 
on the other. 



Fillets of Sole Fried. 

These may either be rolled in one piece, or divided 
into several, as in the foregoing recipe. In either case 
Qgg and ciTimb them thoroughly, place them in the wire 
basket as you do them, which immerse in fat hot enough 
to crisp bread instantly. When done, put the fillets on 
paper to absorb any grease clinging to them, and serve as 
hot as possible. 

All kinds of flat fish can be filleted and cooked by these 
recipes, and will usually be found more economical than 
serving the fish whole. It is also economical to fillet the 
tail end of cod, salmon, and turbot, and either fry or saiitc' 
as may be preferred. 



1 10 E VER V DA V MEALS. 



Fillets of Sole a la Maitre d'Kotel. 






Prepare the fillets as in the first recipe, they may be 
rolled or in pieces. Boil the bones and skins of the fish 
in water with an onion for half an hour, strain the liquor, 
let it boil up, add a little pepper and salt, and gently boil 
the fillets in it for about ten minutes or until tender. If 
there is too much liquor to make a sauce, strain away a 
part of it to half a pint, put a tablespoonful of flour mixed 
smooth in cold water, stir this in gently with the fish, and 
when it has thickened taste it, and if necessary add pepper 
^nd salt, throw in a little chopped parsley ; let it cook 
gently for a minute or so, add a very little lemon juice to 
the sauce and the dish will be ready. 



Fillets of Sole en Aspic, 






Aspic or meat jelly may be made very good, and at a 
moderate cost, by boiling lean beef or veal in water with 
a little vegetable and spice. To make it according to the 
standard recipes is so expensive and tedious that few 
persons care to attempt it. The following directions will 
enable a cook to make an excellent and clear aspic. 

Cut two pounds of lean beef-steak or veal cutlets into 
dice, put it on in two quarts of cold water, and as soon as 
it boils take off the scum as it rises. Let it simmer gently 



FISH. Ill 

for half an hour, then add four onions, a turnip, carrot, 
small bundle of sweet herbs, blade of mace, half-a-dozen 
white peppercorns, and when it has again boiled for an 
hour, strain it through a napkin. Let it stand until cold 
remove all the fat, boil it up, and to a pint and a half of 
the liquor put an ounce of Nelson's gelatine, previously- 
soaked in cold water, add salt and a pinch of cayenne 
pepper, and Avhen the jelly is cool stir in the whites and 
shells of three eggs well beaten. Let the jelly boil briskly 
for two minutes, let it stand off the fire for a few minutes, 
then strain through a jelly-bag and use as directed. 

Take the fillets of a pair of large, thick soles, cut them 
into neat square pieces, leaving the trimmings for other 
dishes, and lay them in vinegar with a little salt for an 
hour. As they must be kept very white, the best French 
vinegar should be used. Boil the fillets gently in salted 
water with a little vinegar until done, take them up and 
dry them on a cloth. Have ready some picked parsley 
and hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters ; arrange these neatly 
at the bottom of a plain mould so as to form a pretty 
pattern. Pour in very gently enough jelly to cover the 
first layer, let it stand until beginning to set, then put 
another layer of fish, eggs, and parsley, then more jelly, 
and so on until the mould is full. When done put the 
mould on ice, or allow it to stand twelve hours in a cold 
place to get well set. Turn it out, ornament with parsley, 
beetroot, and cut lemon. 



112 E VER Y DAY MEALS, 



Baked Soles. 

Small fish called by fishmongers " slips " answer well for 
this purpose, and are very good for breakfast. 

Dissolve a little butter in a tin baking-dish, pass the 
white side of the sole through it, and place it black side 
doAvnwards in the baking-dish, sift over it very fine bread- 
crumbs, highly seasoned with pepper and salt, and bake 
slowly for half an hour, or until the fish is cooked. Smelts 
can be baked in the same manner. 



Fried Smelts. 

Dry the fish, egg, and pass them through bread-crumbs, 
very finely sifted, mixed with an equal quantity of flour 
and a little salt. Fry quickly in plenty of fat, as directed 
for soles. The smelts must be very crisp and dry, and 
w^hen done be a rich orolden brown. 



Boiled Salmon. 

The principles which govern the cooking of meat when 
immersed in liquid should be applied to large fish, — it 
should boil for just time enough to harden the outer edges 
and thus prevent the escape of the juices and consequent 



FISH. 113 

loss of flavour and nourishment. Salmon should be cooked 
either in liquor in which fish has been boiled, or in stock 
well salted, and the addition of a small piece of saltpetre 
helps to preserve the colour. 

Put the fish into boiling liquid, and let it boil sharply 
for less than a minute, then keep it simmering vmtil the 
flesh will come easily from the bone. Should it be neces- 
sary to keep the fish hot for a short time after it is done, 
lift it out of the water and let it stand on the drainer over 
the steam, covered with a tliick cloth. The time fish will 
take to cook depends on the thickness of it and the mode 
of boiling ; if slowly done, a piece of a large fish weighing 
five to six pounds will take from three-quarters of an hour 
to an hour. 

Cod fish, Turbot, Brill, &c., should be boiled in 
the same manner as salmon, and in the case of turbot it 
is desirable to add vinegar or white wine to the liquor in 
which it is boiled. 

Sea Bream is excellent if cooked in fish or meat stock 
with the addition of vinegar, and is even better than when 
baked and stuffed. 

Salmon Steaks. 

Fishmongers generally cut these too thick ; they should 
not be more than half an inch thick. Dip the steak in 
dissolved butter, lightly sprinkle with pepper and salt, and 



14 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



wrap it up in greased "writing paper, carefully folded so 
that the butter cannot run out. Place it on the gridiron, 
over a moderate fire ; it will take from fifteen to twenty 
minutes, and must often be turned. Put a little dissolved 
butter on a hot dish, and place the fish on it and serve. 

Salmon steaks are less dry if, when prepared as above, 
they are laid in a stewpan with a little butter and very 
slowly cooked, or they may be very slowly fried in butter 
in the frying-pan. 

When salmon is dear a comparatively inexpensive little 
disli may be made by filleting the tail end, a i3iece of 
which weighing a pound will be sufficient for four or five 
persons. Carefully remove the flesh from the backbone 
in one piece, divide it down the middle again into two or 
three pieces. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, 
place the fillets in it skin downwards, pepper and salt the 
upper side. Put the pan, closely covered, on the range, 
or over a very slow fire, and let the fish cook very gently 
for ten minutes, turn it carefully on the other side until 
done. Serve with the butter in which it was cooked poured 
over the salmon. The excellence of this dish depends on 
the cooking being very slowly done, and salmon is thus 
rendered more digestible than by an}^ other method. 

If preferred a piquant or plain sauce can be served with 
or poured over the salmon, and a few sliced gherkins can 
be used by way of garnish. 



FISH. 115 



Mayonnaise of Salmon. 

For a handsome dish, about six pounds of the middle cut 
of a fine salmon will be required. When, however, appear- 
ance is not an object, a less expensive piece answers well, 
and the whole of a moderate- sized salmon makes an elegant 
dish. Salmon, and indeed all other kinds of fish, should be 
boiled either in a fish stock, or one flavoured with vege- 
tables, spices, herbs, and, if possible, a little wine. The 
liquor in which ham or bacon has been boiled, with the 
addition of turnips, carrots, onions, ba/leaves, thyme, and 
a few white peppercorns, makes an excellent stock in 
which to boil salmon. The stock should be strained, but 
have the fat left on it. Put a sufficient quantity of stock 
into the fish-kettle to cover the salmon, as soon as it boils 
put in the fish, allow it to boil for one minute, then draw 
the kettle to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently 
until the fish is done ; it will probably take three-quarters 
of an hour. When done, remove the kettle from the fire, 
and let the fish get cool in the liquor, then drain and place 
it on its dish. Ornament the edge of the dish with neatly 
picked pieces of endive and water-cress, interspersed wdth 
beetroot cut into the shape of flowers, olives, or leaves. 
Just before serving the fish pour the sauce over. 

In the case of a whole fish, it is better not to pour the 
sauce over, but to serve it in a tureen. In order to raise 

I 2 



ii6 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



the salmon on the dish, and give it a handsome aj^pear- 
ance, it may be laid on the fish drainer, covered with a 
napkin, and decorated with prawns and water-cress or 
other salad, the sauce being served separately. 

The reason so few persons succeed in making a satis- 
factory mayonnaise sauce is that they do not give the 
necessary time and jDatience. Three-quarters of an hour 
is the time required for making half-a-pint of mayonnaise, 
and, of course, for a larger quantity somewhat longer. For 
a pint of sauce, ^Dut the yolks of tAvo large eggs, perfectly 
free from white, into a marble mortar, mix in two large 
pinches of salt, and then with the pestle work in drop by 
drop two teaspoonfuls of oil. Have ready mixed a 
tablespoonful each of French vinegar, of tarragon vinegar, 
and of chili vinegar. Work in a few drops of the 
vinegar, and then another teaspoonful of oil, proceed in 
this manner until the sauce begins to get thick, when 
rather more oil may be added at a time. Three gills of 
oil will be about the quantity required, and if the sauce 
has been successfully made it will be as thick and w^hite 
as Devonshire cream. Great care should be taken in 
selecting the materials for mayonnaise sauce, and nothing 
is so disagreeable as the flavour of inferior oil. 

An imitation mayonnaise may be used if there is not 
time to make the above. Prepare a quart of rich white 
sauce, and, when cold, flavour it with tarragon and chili 



FISH. 117 



Salmon Salad. 



Cook some pieces of salmon as directed for salmon 
steaks, when done take them out of the butter and put 
them on a dish with a little French vinegar, pepper, and 
i^alt. When they have lain for an hour — or more, if con- 
venient, wipe them in a cloth, and arrange them in a plain 
mould with pieces of cabbage lettuce, a few picked prawns, 
and olives previously blanched and stoned, and when this 
is done fill up the mould with jelly, made as directed for 
collared eels, either of fish or clear veal stock. Let the 
mould stand until the contents are cold, turn it out on to 
a dish, and round the edge place a shred salad, over w^hich, 
the moment before serving, pour a well-prepared salad 
dressing. 

In preparing salad great care should be taken to dry it 
thoroughly by shaking in a cloth. Each kind of vegetable 
should be treated separately ; the small salad well washed 
through a colander, drained and dried, and the cress and 
lettuces most carefully freed from grit and insects. At 
the same time salad must not be allowed to lose its 
crispness. 

Salad Dressing. 

Mix the yolk of an egg with a teaspoon ful of mustard, 
a saltspoonful of salt, and a teaspoonful of essence of 



1 1 8 E VER V DA Y MEALS. 

anchovies, to a smooth paste ; add by degrees a table- 
spoonful of French vinegar. Measure a quarter of a pint 
of the finest salad oil, and mix with the other ingTedients 
drop by drop imtil the dressing is very thick ; a little 
more vinegar may be added at the last if it is not sharp 
enough. 

Salad dressing may be made by the recipe for mayon- 
naise sauce, using plain instead of flavoured vinegar. 

Fried Cod Fish. 

Get slices of cod about half an inch thick, sprinkle with 
pepper and salt, and if convenient let them lie for an 
liour or two. Then dip them in yolk of Q^g and sifted 
bread crumbs seasoned with salt, a pinch of dried parsley 
very finely sifted, and a shake of black pepper. Fry 
quickly in plenty of fat. 

Cod's head cleverly fried is esteemed a gi'eat delicacy, 
and a fine one may generally be had at a very small cost, 
and wdll furnish a breakfast for two persons. 

Eecbauff^ of Cod Fish. 

Take the fish from the bones, making sure none are left 
in it; make a sauce by boiling the bones and skin in 
broth, and afterwards reducing it to a very small quantity 
by boiling rapidly without the lid of the stewpan. Use 



FISH. 119 

to this an equal quantity of cream or milk, flavour nicely 
with Burgess's essence of anchovy, cayenne pepper, and 
salt; then make it very thick with equal quantities of 
corn-flour and flour. Stir the fish into this sauce whilst 
hot, spread a layer of finely sifted bread-crumbs on a but- 
tered dish, lay the fish on this, then cover over thoroughly 
with another layer of crumbs, put a little dissolved butter 
over it and bake a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. 
If you have any oyster or lobster sauce left it will answer 
well to mix with the fish instead of making fresh, only 
it must be very thick, as when the dish goes to table it 
ought not to be moist. Turbot, or indeed almost any fish, 
is good re- warmed in this way, and the addition of shell- 
fish is always an improvement. 

Hard Cod's Eoe. 

This is a very cheap, and, if well prepared, makes an 
excellent dish. Get the fresh roe the day before it is 
wanted, boil it in salt and water until perfectly firm, 
when cold slice it into cutlets a quarter of an inch thick 
and lay them in a pickle composed of a pinch of saltpetre 
and of bay salt, a teaspoonful of common salt, a jDinch of 
pepper, ground cloves, nutmegs, and allspice, the whole 
mixed with two teaspoonfuls of vinegar. Let the cutlets 
remain in this pickle until the next day, turning them 
occasionally. A little before cooking, drain, dry, brush 



120 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

over with Qg<g, and dip them in finely sifted bread-crumbs 
well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a pinch of 
chopped parsley. Fry the cutlets in butter until a nice 
brown, and when about to serve pour round them a sauce 
made as follows : Take a gill of good gravy, add a few 
drops of essence of anchovy, thicken it with flour, chop 
up a tablespoonful of capers and boil them for a minute in 
the gravy. After taking it from the fire stir in a spoonful 
of plain or any good pickling vinegar. 

To Cook Haddock, 

The manner in which haddock is usually boiled has 
made this method of cooking it* unpopular. It generally 
comes to table wdth great gashes in the side, denoting the 
furious rate at which it has been boiled, the flesh being as 
hard and flavourless as might be expected from its ap- 
pearance. To look well, and to eat well, haddock must 
not be boiled at all : it is a very delicate fish, and should 
be treated in accordance with its character. When the 
fish is cleansed, the eyes being removed, lay it in a dish 
and pour two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar over it, 
leave it thus for an hour or more, turning it occasionally 
on the dish. If you have no liquor in which fish has been 
cooked, prepare stock for the haddock by boiling two 
onions, a turnip, a carrot, all minced or cut small, a small 
bunch of sweet herbs, half a dozen white peppercorns, and 



FISH. 121 

a shred of mace, in two quarts of water for an hour. At 
the expiration of this time strain the stock, put it back 
into the fish-kettle with two teaspoonfuls of salt and four 
teaspoonfuls of French vinegar, let it boil, put in the 
haddock, draw the kettle to the side of the fire, and allow 
the fish to simmer very gently for half an hour, or until 
done. If the fish is allowed to hoil, the skin will crack 
and the flesh be tough. When ready lift the fish out of 
the kettle on the drainer and slide it on to a hot dish, 
pour sauce carefully over the back of the fish, and serve 
immediately ; serve a portion of the sauce in a tureen. 

Fresh Haddock Broiled, 

Cut the fish open, take out the bone in the same 
manner as directed for mackerel, lightly pepper and salt 
it, and hang up for twelve hours in as airy a place as you 
can command. When about to cook the fish dissolve 
some butter, and brush it thickly over the haddock. Lay 
it with the skin downwards on the gridiron, and keep it 
over a slow fire for twenty minutes, by which time it 
should be cooked. Put a little more butter over the fish, 
and when melted serve it very hot. After being prepared 
as directed, the haddock may be slowly fried in butter if 
more convenient than broiling. 



122 EVERY DA V MEALS. 



Dried Haddock. 

To render this fish digestible, it should, after being 
washed, be placed in the fish-kettle — or the frying-pan 
covered with a plate answers well — with a pint of 
boiling water. It should then stand at a heat which will 
keep it below simmering point, from fifteen to thirty- 
minutes, according to the size of the fish. When done 
put it before the fire, and rub a little butter over it. If 
properly managed the haddock will not lose its flavour, 
but, if preferred, it can be broiled over a slow fire. 

Kippered Herrings. 

Put the herrings into a basin, pour over enough boiling 
water to cover them, take them out immediately, and put 
them skin downwards in a frying-pan. For two henings 
put half an ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of hot 
water into the pan, and baste them frequently with it for 
ten minutes, taking care the fire is not strong enough to 
boil the fish, indeed the slower the cooking proceeds the 
better. When placed on a hot dish pass a small piece of 
butter over the fish, sprinkle lightly with pepper, and 
serve very hot. 



FISH. 



Kippered Salmon. 

Cook the salmon exactly as directed for kippered 
herrings, allowing fifteen or twenty minutes, according to 
the thickness of the fish. 



Dried Mackerel. 

Cook as directed for kippered herrings. This fish is 
not so suitable for curing as those above-mentioned, and 
consequently is apt to be dry and hard. 



Baked Herrings. 

If you can, get the herrings with soft roes, they are 
best for baking. Cut off the heads of the fish, open and 
clean them. Press the backbone with the finger and 
thumb of the right hand and with those of the left draw 
out the bone. Sprinkle the herrings with pepper, salt, 
and a little flour, lay the roes on them, and roll up 
tightly with the skin outwards. Pack the herrings closely 
in an earthenware pot with a lid, put water to cover 
them, and bake them slowly for two hours, or until they 
are well done ; then drain the liquor off, and cover the 
fish with vinegar, and add a little pepper and salt. 
Herrings thus prepared will keep a long time ; and if done 



124 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

when cheap will be found economical for family use. The 
liquor drained from them after baking should not be 
wasted ; if left to stand until cold the fat can, if desired, be 
taken off, and soup be flavoured with the liquor. If there 
is no convenient oven in the house, get the baker to put 
the jar in his oven after the bread is drawn. If preferred, 
the roes may be cooked as a separate dish instead of 
being rolled in the herrings. Pepper and salt the roes, 
fry them gently in fat until brown, and eat them with 
fried bread, or, thev can be broiled or toasted. 



Rechauffe of Turbot. 

Cut the pieces neatly from the bone, lightly pepper, 
salt, and flour them. Have a little butter in the frying- 
pan, and let the fish cook gently until warm through and 
a nice brown, or the pieces may be brushed over with yolk 
of eggs, crumbed lightly with seasoned bread-crumbs, and 
then fried quickly in a little butter. 



Cheap Fish Pies. 

For a pie of fresh fish, haddock, or mackerel, boil the 
fish the usual time in water with salt, pepper, and a little 
vinegar, pick the fish from the bones, and make the pie in 
the same manner as with salted herriuofs. 



FISH, I2S 

The cheapest fish pie is made of red herrings or dried 
haddock. Put the herrings after cleaning them into as 
much boiling water as will cover them, and simmer them 
for one minute. Take out the fish, wipe them, take off 
the skin, and remove the backbone, holding the herring 
in one hand and pressing it with the thumb and finger of 
the other; the bone should then come out whole, and be 
very careful none is left. Pick the fish into small flakes, 
and mix it with a spoonful or two of dissolved dripping. 
Have ready for each herring half-a-pound of mashed 
potatoes seasoned with pepper and salt, put a thick layer 
in a pie-dish, then cover up with the remainder of the 
potatoes and bake in a slow oven for a quarter of an 
hour. 

Make a sauce to eat with the pie, by boiling the bones 
and skin of the fish in a little water. When done, strain 
them, boil up the liquor and thicken it with flour mixed 
smooth in cold water, add pepper and salt, and if liked, a 
few drops of vinegar. A small quantity of any kind of 
pickle chopped and made hot in the sauce is very good. 

To make the pie of dried haddock, proceed as for 
herrings, but simmer the haddock for five minutes. A 
little chopped parsley is a great improvement to this 
dish. 



K26 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Collared Eels. 

Clean, skin, and boil the eels in water highly seasoned 
with pepper and salt, an onion, bay-leaf, a clove, and a 
little vinegar. When the eels are done enough, slip out the 
bones and cut them up into j^ieces about two inches long. 
Take the liquor in which the fish has boiled, strain it, let 
it boil in the stewpan without the lid, skimming it until 
it becomes clear. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of 
isinglass to each half-pint of the fish gi'avy, and boil both 
together for a minute, let it then stand until cool. 
Arrange the pieces of eel tastefully in a plain mould with 
small sprigs of curled parsley and slices of hard-boiled eggs, 
and, if you like, a fillet or two of anchovies cut up into dice. 
When all the fish is thus arranged in the mould pour the 
jelly in very gently, a tablespoonful at a time, in order 
not to disturb the solid material. Let the mould stand in 
cold water for seven or eight hours, when the contents can 
be turned out. Ornament the dish with parslev, lemon- 
juice, and beetroot. 



Oyster Trifles. 

The first thing to do will be to make the paper cases for 
the trifles. They can be bought at the stationer's at nine- 
pence the dozen, but can be made at home for a penny. 



FISH. 127 

The cases for savoury trifles of any kind should not be so 
deep as those for ramakins ; about three-quarters of an 
inch deep and two inches wide is the best size. 

To make the cases, cut thin w^hite "svriting paper into 
rounds four inches in diameter. Now take a wood .block 
(one on which drapers roll ribbon answers perfectly), and 
shape the case into the form of a patty-pan, neatly fold 
over the edge of the paper, and crimp it to keep the case 
in shape. 

Take the beard off the oysters, and simmer them for 
two minutes in two or three tablespoonfuls of water, 
strain them, put the oyster liquor to that obtained from 
the beards with the juice of a small lemon, let it boil and 
stir in a tablespoonful of fine flour, mixed smooth in two 
iablespoonfuls of milk or cream, stir very rapidly for four 
minutes, as this sauce will be very thick ; now add an 
ounce of butter, and a large pinch of cayenne pepper. 
Chop the oysters, or if you can manage it, break them up 
with a silver knife or fork, put them into the sauce, cover 
the saucepan with its lid, and let it stand on the range for 
five minutes, taking the greatest care that there is no 
approach to boiling ; the heat of the sauce should be 
sufficient to cook the oysters, boiling or simmering would 
ruin the dish. 

Take a feather and brush over the paper cases with fine 
salad oil, or dissolved butter ; fill them with the oyster 
mixture. Hand round tlie dish with one case to each 



128 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

person. These trifles are by many persons preferred to 
oyster patties, as they are less rich, and if the cook cannot 
prepare the finest kind of pastry, are convenient substitutes. 
A small quantity only is supposed to be served, as the 
trifles go by way of appetisers, and should be well and 
rather highly seasoned. 

Lobster Cutlets. 

These may be economically made with preserved 
lobster. Small claws of fresh lobsters, which are used by 
way of ornament, can always be had at trifling cost of the 
fishmonger ; but, if not convenient to use these, parsley 
stalks can be substituted. Cut up the lobster into small 
pieces, and mix it with a sauce made as directed for 
croquettes, adding shrimp or anchovy sauce to taste. 
Mould the paste into small cakes, Qg^ and crumb and fry 
them in the wire basket in the same manner as cro- 
quettes. Drain, and into each cutlet stick a small lobster 
claw, arranging them neatly on a fish paper. 

If the cutlets are made of fresh lobster, the hen should 
be chosen, and the coral be pounded, rubbed through a 
sieve, and mixed with the other ingredients. 



FISH, 129 



Scalloped Lobster. 

Strain the liquor from a tin of preserved lobster 
into a basin, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of fine flour, 
and stir on to it a gill of boiling water. Put this into a 
stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter, and stir until 
thick ; add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a 
pinch of cayenne pepper; pick any bits of shell or 
cartilage from the lobster, and add it to the sauce. 
Butter a tin dish, put in it a thick layer of bread-crumbs 
and on this the lobster ; cover with a thick layer of 
crumbs, spread bits of butter thickly on the top, and bake 
in a quick oven for fifteen minutes. If not brown, use 
the salamander, or colour before the fire in Dutch oven. 

Lobster en Beignets. 

Preserved lobster answers very well for these. Moir's 
or Bray and Hayes' are the best brands. Divide the 
lobster into as nice pieces as you can — the smaller answers 
well for sauce or scalloping— and dip each into a good 
frying batter as directed for ox brains, but adding to it a 
little cayenne pepper and a few drops of Burgess's Essence 
of Anchovies. Fry the beignets quickly in oil or good fat, 
and serve hot. 



I30 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Lobster Sauce. 

Make plain butter sauce in the proportion of one ounce 
of flour, half a pint of boiling water, and two ounces of 
fresh butter. Put into this the meat of the lobster cut 
into small pieces, the coral pounded very fine, a pinch of 
cayenne, and anchovy or shrimp essence to taste. Let 
the lobster get hot in the sauce without boiling, and serve 
with salmon or turbot. 




LITTLE DISHES. 



K 2 




Grenadines of Beef. 

Cut two pounds of the undercut of either the sh'lom 
or the rump of beef into neat cutlets, about the third of 
an inch thick. Lard them with thin strips of bacon, and 
put them in a stewpan with a small piece of butter, 
lightly sprinkling the upper side with pepper and salt. 
Let them cook very slowly, without approaching frying 
point, for fifteen minutes, then turn them on the other 
side, which lightly pepper and salt, and allow the grena- 
dines to cook for another fifteen minutes. Have ready 
half a pint of rich, well-flavoured gravy, of a good brown 
colour, and thick enough to coat the grenadines, which 
place on the dish, pouring the gravy slowly over them. 
The dish may be made to look very pretty by a little 
garnish of sprigs of cauliflower, Brussels-sprouts, or any 
vegetable in season, but after these are boiled and drained 
from the water, they must be tossed in a stewpan with a 
little butter. 

Roulades de Boeuf. 

To make these a fillet of beef must be procured. One 
of the most convenient ways is to remove the fillet or 



134 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

undercut of the sirloin before roasting. The undercut of 
the rump — known as fillet steak — is, however, equally 
suitable for the purpose. There need be no w^aste in its 
use, as all the trimmings can be made into pies or stew^s 
for the second table. Cut as many slices as you require 
roulades as thin as jDOssible, lay one at a time flat on the 
board, cover it with a ver}^ thin slice — not quite so large 
as the beef — of w^ell-cooked bacon, then roll it ujd ver}^ 
tightly, Q^g it over, roll it in finely sifted bread-crumbs 
very highly seasoned with pepper and salt, then put it on a 
ske\ver in such a manner as it will keep its shape nicely. 
As the remainder are prepared place them on the skewer 
not too close together — four will be sufiicient to place on 
each skewer. Put into the frying-pan a small slice of 
butter, and when it boils put in the roulades and let them 
cook gently on one side for ten minutes, when they should 
be crisp and brown — then turn them on the other side and 
finish. A very little concentrated gravy, thickened, may be 
poured round the dish immediately before serving, or the}^ 
may be sent up without it. The remains of a roasted 
fillet of beef, or of sirloin, are excellent used for roulades. 



Hashed Beef. 

The only part of cold beef wdiich is suitable for this 
dish is the undercut of the sirloin, which cut into slices 



LITTLE DISHES. i35 

lialf an incli thick, and place in a stewpan covered with 
good stock or gravy, one or two minced onions, and a 
turnip. Let the meat get hot slowly, and stand very 
gently simmering for three-quarters of an hour. Thicken 
the gravy, add salt and pepper if necessary, and serve the 
hash with currant jelly. If liked, a glass of claret and a 
lump of sugar can be added to the gravy with the 
thickening. It is usual to place fried or toasted bread 
round the dish. 

Tripe in Batter. 

Boil the tripe after prepared in the shops for two hours. 
To each pound put a quart of cold water, two teaspoon - 
fuls of salt, a small teaspoonful of pepper, a bay-leaf, a 
very small bit of mace, three onions, and a tablespoonful 
of vinegar. When the tripe is ready, diy it in a clean 
cloth, cut it into neat squares of about two inches. Dip 
each piece in batter, and fry in hot fat until crisp and a 
light brown. As you take up each piece put it on paper, 
to absorb any fat clinging to it, and serve as quickly as 
possible. Not more than two or three pieces should be 
fried at once, lest the temperature of the fat be too much 
reduced. 



136 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Baked Tripe with Potatoes. 

Put a pound of tripe, cut into neat squares, in a stew- 
in g-pot, with four shred onions, a small teaspoonful of 
pepper, and one of salt, and enough stock or water to 
cover it. Let it cook in a slow oven for three hours, 
taking care to fill up the j)ot should the liquor dry up. 
When the tripe is perfectly tender strain away the gravy, 
from which remove all fat, and make it as thick as cream 
with flour. Put the gravy and tripe into a pie-dish, and 
make a cover of mashed potatoes, and bake for ten 
minutes, or until the pasty is hot throughout. The 
potatoes should be brown on the top. 

Cow Heel. 

Stew the heel gently after it comes from the shop as 
cooked, for four hours, with four onions, a bay-leaf, two 
cloves, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the water 
highly. When done take the meat from the bones, cut it 
into neatly shaped pieces, Qgg, bread-crumb, and fry them 
in a little butter until brown. Let the bread-crumbs be 
highly seasoned. The heel can be served without sauce, 
but a iniree of tomatoes or mushrooms goes well with it. 



LITTLE DISHES. 137 



Meat Puddings, 

A well-made meat pudding is not only an economical but 
a generally acceptable dish. The material most in use is 
rump steak, with the addition of kidneys or mushrooms. 
Excellent meat pudding may be made of any other kind 
of meat, and perhaps the best of these is pork with-the 
addition of kidney. The meat, however, must be that of 
full-grown pigs, and be tolerably free from fat. Veal and 
bacon, rabbit, pickled pork, mutton, stewed shin of beef, 
and tripe, hearts, and many other things make good 
puddings. The method of making meat puddings is in 
all cases the same. The crust, to be light and digestible, 
should be made with at least the cpiantity of suet given 
in our recipe, and it should be shred, not chopped. For a 
quart basin, mix eight ounces of flour with six ounces of 
shred suet, make it into a paste with rather less than a 
gill of water, flour your board, roll the paste out, beat it a 
little, and having greased your basin, line it Avith the 
crust, reserving sufficient for the cover. Whilst this is 
doing boil one or two minced onions in half a pint of 
water. Cut the meat in convenient pieces for serving, 
and quite free from fat, lay them in the basin, sprinkling 
pepper and salt over each layer. A large teaspoonful of 
salt and a small teaspoonful of pepper is usually a fair 



138 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

allowance of seasoning to a pound of meat. If you use 
Tiidneys or mushrooms, place tliern in the middle of the 
pudding between layers of meat. The basin should not 
be quite full, but space be allowed for the gravy. Pour in 
the onions and the water in which they were boiled, fasten 
on the cover of the pudding, tie over with a cloth, put 
into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil very 
gently for two hours and a half If a superior pudding is 
required, stock or gravy should be used instead of the 
onion-water. Serve some gravy in a tureen in case there 
is not enough in the pudding. 

Rechauffes. 

To use the crust remaining from steak pudding : Chop 
finely the remainder of the pudding crust, add a little 
flour, and mix into a paste with ^gg ; flour your hands, and 
roll the paste into small balls of equal size. Put a little 
butter or other fat in a tin, and when it is dissolved, roll 
the balls in it,* then bake them gently in the tin for half 
an hour, or until done. Take care they do not get brown or 
hard. Serve with a little gravy as a separate dish, or as 
an accompaniment to any kind of roast meats or hash. 

To use beef remaining from the pudding : Put a little 
butter in a frying-pan of the smallest size ; when it is 
hot, lay in the pieces of meat and kidney, let them get 
liot very gradually, turning them at least every minute. 



LITTLE DISHES. 139 



If properly managed, the beef will take about eight 
minutes to get hot through, and will make a very 
delicious little dish. When done, sprinkle a very little 
salt and pepper on the beef, pour over any gravy in the 
pan, and serve. Observe that there is to be no approach to 
fiying, which would harden the meat, but a slow and 
gentle heat to be maintained until it is hot through. 



Savoury Roll Pudding. 

Make a paste of half a pound of flour, six ounces of 
shred suet, a pinch of salt, and a gill of cold water. Roll 
out the paste rather longer one way than the other, and 
about half an inch thick. Spread on it half a pound of 
beef steak, minced fine, seasoned with half a teaspoonful 
of salt and a large pinch of pepper, and, if approved, an 
onion, finely minced and boiled for a minute or two. 
Roll the pudding up neatly and tightly in the form of a 
bolster, taking care the meat is all kept in ; wet the 
edges of the crust and press them well together ; tie the 
pudding in a floured cloth and put it in a saucepan, with 
.sufficient boiling water to cover it. Boil gently for an 
hour and a half. Serve with gravy in a boat. 



I40 EVERY DA Y MEALS, 



Meat Minced. 

Any kind of cold meat, game, or poultry, can be advan- 
tageously made into a mince, and by the exercise of a 
little skill and taste, a dish which is too often insipid, 
may be rendered delicious. 

First, in the case of cold beef or mutton, clear the meat 
you intend to mince of every particle of fat, sinew, and 
gristle; either chop it with the mincing knife or pass 
it through the sausage machine. This done, put the 
mince into a ste\vpan with sufficient cold, good gravy to 
cover it, and a minced shalot and a teaspoonful of minced 
parsley. Let this stand on the range, getting hot very 
slowly, but never approaching boiling point, and when it 
is done, add a very little Harvey, Worcester, or Chutney 
Sauce, as may be liked, and pepper and salt to taste. Fry 
sufficient sippets of bread for your party, place round tlie 
dish for serving, on each a sprig of fried parsley, and 
neatly place the mince in the centre of the dish. 

Veal can be minced in the same manner as above, but 
when it has been made thoroughly hot in the gravy, 
which can be made from the bones and trimmings with 
an onion or two, and a sprig of thyme and parsley, it 
must be thickened with milk and flour, and have a grate 
of nutmeg and lemon peel added instead of sauce. It 
should then be stirred over the fire until thick, and be 
served with fried or toasted bread and fried parsley. 



LITTLE DISHES. 141 



Shoulder of Mutton Boned and Stuffed, 

There is no difficulty for a cook in removing the bones 
of a shoulder of mutton or lamb, and a little practice will 
enable her to acconiiDlish it with dexterity. It is, how- 
ever, generally possible to have the shoulder boned by the 
butcher. The bones will assist in making gravy, and one 
of the economies of boning meat is, that these and the 
trimmings can be utilised, whereas, if roasted in the joint 
they are usually wasted. The undercut of a shoulder of 
mutton makes a delicious pasty and other small dishes, 
and it is well to reserve this, and only roll the upper side. 
The same remark applies to a loin of mutton. Having 
removed the bones, leaving that of the knuckle, lay the 
meat flat, sprinkle with peppei and salt, and spread over a 
layer of forcemeat, made of equal quantities of bread- 
crumbs and cold boiled fat bacon. The usual seasoninofs 
are salt, pepper, sweet herbs, parsley, lemon peel, and a 
grate of lemon and nutmeg. Some persons, however, 
prefer minced shalot and a little dried and sifted sage. 
Having spread the forcemeat, taking care not to bring it 
too near the edges of the meat, bind the shoulder with 
tape so as to bring the knuckle near the centre of it, and 
to thoroughly secure the forcemeat. 

The joint can either l)e roasted or brased, and in either 



142 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

case will require to be cooked gradually. To brase the 
meat put in the kettle a thick layer of sliced carrots, tur- 
nips, and onions, place it on these and pour in gently 
three quarts of boiling stock with a teaspoonfal of pepper 
and three teaspoonfuls of salt. Allow the meat to simmer 
very gently for four hours, or until thoroughly stewed and 
tender. Take it up, and having poured the gravy through 
a strainer into a basin, place it again in the kettle, and 
keep it hot whilst the gravy is prepared, for which at 
least half an hour must be allowed. Place the basin con- 
taining the strained gravy in another Avith cold water, 
which change frequently, in order to facilitate the cooling. 
As soon as the fat is set remove it, put the gravy in a 
stewpan without the lid, and let it boil rapidly, skimming 
it as long as any scum rises. When the gravy has boiled 
down to about a pint return it to the meat in the kettle, 
which put over the fire and baste with the gravy for ten 
minutes. To avoid the delay of preparing the gravy in 
this manner, it is often possible by a little management to 
have one ready which will serve for this purpose. All 
that is necessary is, that the gTavy should be gelatinous, 
and of a good flavour and colour. To assist in making 
gravy into half glaze, an ounce of Nelson's gelatine to a 
quart of gravy may be used : this boiled down to a pint 
will be very good. 

The vegetables stewed with the meat will make a good 
garnish if minced fine, mixed with a very small piece of 



LITTLE DISHES. 143 

butter and re-warmed, or will be very good curried. 
Haricot beans also go w^ell wdth this dish. 

Chops. 

By far the best way of cooking chops and steaks is to 
broil them, and this may be done either over the fire or 
before it in a hanging gridiron ; but no broiling is so per- 
fect as that done by Leoni's gas ring with terra cotta re- 
flector. 

In the first place, lightly salt and pejDper the meat on the 
side which is placed uppermost on the gridiron, then let it 
cook very quickly for about a minute, in order to harden the 
outside and prevent the escape of the juices before the meat 
is done. As soon as one side is done, turn over the other, 
pepper and salt it, and let this also brown, then turn 
again, moderate the heat, and let the chop cook from 
eight to ten minutes, according to thickness, turning it 
every minute. Chops are best served without condiment 
of any kind, but some persons like a small piece of butter 
passed over each of them after they are laid in the dish, 
pepper and salt being afterwards added. 

Keck of Mutton Cutlets. 

This excellent dish will serve either as an entree or a 
supper dish. It will be less expensive if the whole neck is 



144 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

purchased, and the scrag end served boiled or stewed. 
The best end will give seven cutlets, four with bones and 
three without them. Let the butcher saw off the chine 
bone, then the cutlets can easily be divided at home. 
Trim them neatly, removing any gristle and almost all the 
fat. Trim away the fat from the long bone, leaving it 
bare for nearly two inches. When the cutlets are ready, 
melt a piece of butter the size of a hazel nut in a stew- 
pan, put in a layer of sliced turnips, onions, and celery, 
lay tlie cutlets on this, lightly sprinkle jDepper and salt 
over, and cover them with another layer of the above vege- 
tables. Cover the stewpan closely, and place it on the 
range at a low heat, in order that the cutlets maj^ stew 
gently in their own juice and that of the vegetables. If 
the meat is fine this part of the cooking will be effected 
in about half an hour, but if on trying the cutlets are not 
perfectly tender, they must stew longer. WTien done lay 
them on a board and flatten them with a wooden bat or 
spoon, then dip tliem in the yolk of an (^gg and in bread- 
crumbs. Fry in a little butter first on one side, then on 
the other, until lightly browned. 

Have ready a^n/rt'e of potatoes, made by rubbing a pound 
of boiled potatoes with a little of the vegetables stewed with 
the cutlets through a sieve. Put the puree into a stewpan 
with a gill of milk or cream, and pepper and salt to taste, 
and work over the fire until it is stiff. Pile it up in the 
centre of a small dish, place the cutlets round it, and 



LITTLE DISHES. 



145 



having taken the fat off the gravy, re-warm, pour it round 
the dish, and serve immediately. 

Mutton Cutlets. 

It is often convenient to dress the loin chops as a 
"breakfast dish for one or two jDorsons as follows : — Trim 
away the fat, cut the meat neatly from the bones, and 
divide each chop into two. Egg and bread-crumb them 
and fry in a little butter. 

Take the bones with an onion and make them into 
gravy. Thicken this either with a cooked potato rubbed 
through a sieve, a little tomato sauce, or flour, or serve 
plain. 

Hashed Mutton. 

First take the meat from the bone of a leg of mutton 
in as large and neat slices as the state of the joint will 
admit. Break the bone by striking it sharply in the 
middle with a knife, put it in a saucepan with a little 
fat, and fry until it becomes brown ; take it out, and in the 
fat fry two sliced onions until they also are a golden 
brown ; if allowed to burn they will make the gravy bitter. 
Put the fried bones and onions into the saucepan with a 
peeled turnip, four whole onions, and a quart of water. 
When the gravy has boiled for an hour and a half take 



146 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

out the bones, carefully remove every particle of fat from 
it ; when cool, put it back into the stewpan with the 
onions and meat, and pepper and salt to taste. Let the 
meat get hot very slowly in the gi'avy, and allow it to sim- 
mer for an hour, by which time it should be perfectly tender 
without being ragged. Take off any fat there may be on 
the gravy, which thicken with a little flour mixed 
smooth in cold water. The gravy should now be suffi- 
ciently tasty, but any flavouring may be added. Mushroom 
catsup, Worcester or Harvey Sauce, or a few drops of 
vinegar from pickles may be used. Toasted or fried 
bread should be placed round the dish en which the hash 
is served. Many people make hash by merely allowing the 
meat to get hot in the gravy, and by this method it is 
usually hard and tasteless, whilst the onions, if any are 
used, are insufficiently cooked, and, consequently, are in- 
digestible. It is impossible that the sinewy portion of the 
leg or shoulder can be tender, unless simmered for 
some length of time. 

Mutton Saute. 

Put a little butter or bacon fat in the frying-pan, 
sprinkle pepper and salt over slices of cold mutton, and 
let them get hot very slowly. The mutton must be fre- 
quently turned, and never allowed to fry. When turned 
in the pan for the last time sprinkle a little chopped pars- 



LITTLE DISHES. 147 

ley on the upper side ; remove the slices carefully on to a 
hot dish, pour the fat in the pan over, and serve. 

Cold Mutton Potted. 

Cut up the meat, beiug careful to free it from all sinew 
and skin, chop or pound it with half its weight of cooked 
bacon until it is as fine as desired. Season with a little 
pepper, salt, and allspice, and proceed as directed for 
beef. 

Any kind of cold meat, veal and ham especially, is 
good potted, and in all cases the method is the same. 
Cod fish potted may be made almost equal to salmon by 
the addition of essence of anchovy, and a due admixture 
of salt and cayenne pepper. 

Shoulder of Lamb Stuffed, 

This is a useful cold dish. Take out the blade-bone of 
the shoulder, leaving that of the knuckle. Make a stuffing 
of a quarter of a pound of fat pork, or of the back fat of 
bacon, taking care there is no lean. Let the fat be 
chopped fine, mix it with an equal quantity of fine bread- 
crumbs, a tablespoonful of chopped green parsley, a large 
pinch of thyme, a grate of lemon -peel and nutmeg, half a 
teaspoonful of salt and pepper, the whole to be made into 

l2 



148 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

a paste with ^^^<g. Put the stuffing between the folds of 
the meat, and fasten the shoulder up with skewers and 
twine into its natural shape. This must be roasted rather 
slowly, or it will shrink. When done, let the meat grow 
cold and remove the binding, then trim it neatly, glaze 
and ornament it either with vermicelli paste or lard 
piping. Have a frill of tissue paper cut very fine and put 
it round the knuckle. 

Stewed Leg of Lamb, 

Choose a small leg of lamb, weighing about four pounds, 
and put it into a kettle which is just large enough for it, 
with two onions, a small carrot, an ounce of salt, a small 
teaspoonful of pepper, two cloves, a small bundle of sweet 
herbs, and a quart of stock ; cover the stewpan closely, 
and let it simmer gently for two hours. It will be well to 
try the meat at the end of an hour and a half, and if it is 
then tender, to cease stewing, and let it stand on a cool 
part of the range until Avanted. Strain the grav}^ take off 
the fat, and reduce it to about a pint by boiling without 
the lid of the stewpan, pour it over the meat and serve. 

Boil a quarter of a jDound of Italian pastine in a quart 
of water slightly salted, until tender ; most shapes take 
about ten minutes. Take care, when you throw in the 
pastine, that the water boils, and that it continues to do 
so during all the time of cooking, as this will keep it from 



LITTLE DISHES. 149 

sticking together. Put this by way of garnish round the 
dish on which you have placed the leg of lamb. 

Veal a la Casserole. 

For this dish a piece of the fillet about three inches 
thick will be required, and weighing from two to three 
pounds. It should be cut from one side of the leg, with- 
out bone ; but sometimes butchers object to give it, as 
cuttuio- in this manner interferes with cutlets. In such a 
case a piece must be chosen near the knuckle, and the 
bone be taken out before cooking. For a larger i^arty, a 
thick slice of the fillet, weighing about four pounds, will 
be found advantageous. 

With a piece of tape tie the ve?l into a round shape, 
flour, and put it into a stewpan with a small piece of butter, 
fry until it becomes brown on all sides. Then put half a 
pint of good gravy nicely seasoned with pepper and salt, 
cover the stewpan closely, and set it on the stove to cook 
very slowly for, at least, four hours. When done, the 
veal will be exquisitely tender, full of flavour, but not the 
least ragged. Take the meat up, and keep hot whilst the 
gravy is reduced, by boiling without the lid of the sauce- 
pan, to a rich glaze, which pour over the meat, and serve. 



1 50 E VER V DA V MEALS. 



Frittura Piccata. 

Take about one pound of veal cutlet, which cut without any 
fat into small pieces, beat them very thin and shape about 
the size of a crown piece, season them well with pepper 
and salt, and roll in flour ; put about two ounces of butter 
into a frying-pan with a tiny piece of garlic, when the butter 
boils put in the cutlets, fry them a pale gold colour ; when 
nearly cooked throw in a tablespoonful of chopped parsley 
and a small wine glass of any good white wine, serve very 
hot with lemon. The fire must be a moderate one, so 
the butter should not brown too quickly, and the cutlets 
should be cooked only the minute before serving. 



Veal Cutlets with Tomato Sauce. 

Choose a handsome piece of veal cutlet about one 
pound weight, which cut free from skin and fat into small 
pieces, beat them thin and season with pepper and 
salt, roll in flour as for Frittura Piccata ; the trimmings 
can be stewed to make a little rich broth, which mix with 
a sevenpenny bottle of tomato sauce ; then fry the cutlets 
in a covered stewpan, with a small piece of onion and 
chopped garlic, when they are a very pale brown colour 
add the sauce, a tablespoonful at a time, at intervals of a 



LITTLE DISHES. 151 



few minutes till all is used ; this care is essential, because 
if all the sauce is poured in at once it quite destroys the 
rich character of the dish. 

This is an Italian dish, which, if properly managed, will 
be found good ; it may, however, be necessary to omit the 
garlic. 



Veal Rissolettes. 

By this recipe the veal left from making artichoke soup, 
veal a la casserole, &c., &c., can be used up. Take the 
meat from the bones, mince it finely, add a quarter of its 
weight in boiled bacon or pork and the same of bread- 
crumbs, a little minced parsley, a few drops of essence of 
anchovy, and pepper and salt to taste ; mix together into 
a stiff paste with beaten egg, flour your hands, and roll the 
mixture into the shape of corks or small eggs. Dip them 
into Qgg, then into bread-crumbs, and fry. 



Calf's Liver a la Brochette. 

Cut a slice of liver a quarter of an inch thick, then 
divide it into pieces an inch square, cut an equal number 
of pieces of fat bacon exactly the same size and shape. 
Place these on small skewers, a piece of liver, then one of 
bacon, and so on until the skewer is full. Dissolve a httle 



152 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

butter, mix pepper and salt with it, and tlien pass the 
liver and bacon on the skewers through it on all sides. 
Lay the brochettes in the Dutch oven and cook them very 
slowly before the fire, turning occasionally. When done, 
lay the brochettes on a hot dish, carefully draw out the 
skewers, so as to leave the liver and bacon in the form in 
which it has been cooked, pour the grav}^ which has run 
from them over, and serve immediately. If you have 
silver skewers they will not be withdrawn before serving 
the brochettes, and the dish looks much handsomer with, 
them. 

Risotto a la Milanese. 

Take a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, one medium- 
sized onion chopped very fine, about one ounce beef mar- 
row or kidney suet, also chopped very fine, put altogether 
in a stewpan, and fry till the onion is a pale gold colour ; 
after put one and a half pound of rice with a very little 
powdered saffron (about as much as will cover a three- 
penny piece will serve for three pounds of rice), cook 
altogether for about two minutes, stirring it constantly 
with a wooden spoon, so that it does not stick to the 
stewpan; after this two minutes' cooking, add very 
gradually as the rice swells about three pints of good beef 
tea or broth, let it simmer, stirring very frequently till 
the rice is just soft, before quite done add two ounces of 



LITTLE DISHES. 153 

grated Parmesan cheese ; after this boil for one minute, 
then take it from the fire and set it on a hot plate or in 
the oven, put in one ounce more butter, cover for two 
minutes, it is then ready to serve. 

The quantity of beef tea can be varied according as the 
risotto is liked, thick or otherwise. The Milanese rice 
proper for making this dish can be procured of Perelli 
Rocco, 8, Greek Street, Soho Square. 

Roast Chickens with Water-cress. 

The fashion of serving bread sauce with roasted poultry 
or game is unknown on the continent, and the French are 
especially intolerant of our " -panade,'' as they term 
bread sauce. En revanche, the Enghsh will not accept 
v/ater-cress as the best accompaniment to roast chicken, 
quails, or partridges. Nevertheless it is a delicious and 
appropriate accompaniment, and one we shall do w^ell to 
adopt, at least by way of a change. 

It is \-ery rarely indeed chickens are properjy roasted ; 
they are too generally dried up before the fire, or sodden 
with dripping or other strong fat. The much neglected 
rule of frequent basting needs to be enforced in the 
roasting of chickens. English housewives are so chary in 
using butter one hesitates to ScX/it is the proper fat with 
which to baste these deHcate viands, and it is the only one 
used in France. Good cooking butter can generally be had 



154 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

for one and sixpence the pouod, and as, if carefully put away, 
it will serve many times, it is not after all a serious extra- 
vagance. A pound of butter will be a liberal allow^ance 
for basting a pair of chickens. It is always best in roasting 
poultry to do it slowly at first, and, if necessary to increase 
the heat to brown the skin, to do so when the cooking is 
nearly completed. It is a good plan to put a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, mixed with pepper and salt, 
in the bodies of the chickens, as it assists in keeping them 
moist. 

When the chickens are placed on the dish pour round 
them a little good clear gravy made of beef and the giblets, 
and have ready some fresh green water-cress, well washed 
and thoroughly dried. Nothing could be more objection- 
able than any moisture clinging to the cress, therefore be 
very particular on this point. Place a thick border of the 
cress round the dish and a sprig on the breast of each 
chicken. The carver will send a little of the gravy and 
the cress to each guest, and no other vegetable or accom- 
paniment will be served. 

Fowl a la Soubise. 

Prepare a fine fowl as for boiling, fill up the body with 
small onions which have been parboiled in milk with a 
little salt. Make a stock, in which to boil the fowl, of the 
giblets, two or three bones from which streaked bacon has 



LITTLE DISHES. 



been cut, four large onions, two teaspoonfuls of salt and 
one of white pepper, boil in two quarts of water for an 
hour ; the fowl should be put into the stock at boiling 
point and allowed to boil fast for one minute, then the 
temperature must be reduced and the pot kept just 
simmering until the fowl is cooked ; it will take about an 
hour. 

Make the Soubise sauce thus : — Boil six onions in a 
quart of w^ater for a quarter of an hour, then strain and 
put the onions into a quart of milk (that in which the 
onions have been prepared for the fowl may be used), with 
a teaspoonful of salt, and let them boil gently until 
perfectly tender. Rub the onions through a sieve to a fine 
iniree, put them back into the milk, let them boil, and 
stir in a large tablespoonful of fine flour (Vienna if possible), 
mixed smooth in a little cold milk. The sauce should be 
as thick as good cream, and if the quantity of flour is not 
sufficient, add a little more. After adding the flour, stir 
the sauce over the fire for five minutes, break in an ounce 
of butter, add a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt, if 
necessary, but do not let the sauce boil after adding the 
butter. Pour half the sauce over the fowl and serve the 
remainder in a tureen; garuish the dish with Brussels 
sprouts, carefully selected and picked, and boiled a good 
green, taking care they are w^ell drained. Beetroot cut 
into shapes with a cutter looks very pretty mixed with the 
sprouts, but only a small quantity should be used. A 



156 EVERY DAY MEALS, 

large fowl cooked in this manner will be sufficient for six 
persons, as the legs are as good as the white meat. Tlie 
The best way to serve it is to divide the legs in half, cut 
the meat from the bones, and serve a piece with a slice of 
the breast or wing, thus all the guests have an equal 
choice ; put sauce over each serving and not by the side 
of it. 

Fried Chicken. 

Prepare it as for boiling. Put two ounces of butter 
into a stewpan, and when it boils put in the chicken, let 
it fry until a delicate brown, then sprinkle it with pepper 
and salt, put on the lid of the stewpan, and let it stand at 
a moderate heat until thoroughly done, as it should be in 
about half an hour. It is very convenient to cook the legs 
only of chickens in this way, or by broiling, as they eat 
better than an}^ other part of the fowl, whilst the white 
meat serves better for other dishes. If appearance is not 
considered, a fowl can as well be roasted or boiled without 
as with tlie legs, and it is a great economy to use them for 
a separate dish. 

Chicken Saute. 

Put any of the meat of the breast or of the wings, 
without bone, into a frying-pan with a little fresh butter 



LITTLE DISHES. 15? 



or bacon fat. Cook them very slowly, turning repeatedly ; 
if the meat has not been previously cooked, it will take 
ten minutes, and five minutes if a recliaujjL Sprinkle 
with pepper, and serve with mushrooms or broiled bacon. 
The leo-s of cooked chickens are excellent soMc, but they 
should be boned before they are put into the pan. 



Minced Chicken with Egg. 

Cut up all the meat of a cooked chicken into neat 
little squares. Put on the bones with a little water and 
an onion, and let them boil for an hour. Take the fat off 
this gravy and put in the minced chicken. Let it simmer 
gently until perfectly tender, then put in enough flour 
mixed with milk to thicken it, simmer up, and, having-^ 
seasoned nicely stir in a teaspoonful of chutney. Pour this 
out of the stewpan into a dish, break on the top of the 
mince an Qgg to each person, strew over them a dust of 
fine raspings, pepper and salt, put in the oven until the 
esfofs are set, not hard, and serve with fried croutons 
round the dish. 



Fillets of Turkey, 

Cut the meat from the bones of dressed turkey legs, 
cutlet-wise, in slices about an inch thick. "Work into a 

i 



158 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

paste a teaspoonful of chutney, two of dissolved butter, 
one of anchovy, a few grains of cayenne pepper, and a 
pinch of salt. Spread this over the slices of turkey, then 
wrap each in a cover of white buttered paper, and place 
them on a gi'idiron over a clear fire. Turn them fre- 
quently, so that the paper does not scorch, and in about a 
quarter of an hour they will be done. Take them out of 
the papers, and serve on a hot dish. 

Fried Rabbit. 

Choose a young one, cut it into small joints, and fry 
slowly in butter till a nice brown. When done pour over 
it the following sauce : — Dissolve a little butter in a sauce- 
pan, add pepper, salt, and a little scalded and chopped 
parsley ; let it get hot, but on no account allow it to boil. 

Rabbit with Mushrooms. 

Take all the meat lengthways from the back of a fat 
Ostend rabbit, and cut it into neat square pieces. Fry 
them very slowly in butter until a nice brown, sprinkle 
over with pepper and salt. Dish them, and place on each 
piece a well stewed mushroom, pouring round the dish the 
gravy from them ; or a little mushroom catsup, diluted with 
thin white sauce, may be substituted. The portions of 
rabbit not used for this dish will answer ^vell for a pie 
or fricasee. 



LITTLE DISHES. 159 



Pigeons, 

Split up the back and flatten out, but do not divide 
them. Brush them over with dissolved butter, sprinkled 
with pepper and salt, and lay them on the gridiron, bones 
downwards, for fifteen minutes, over a very slow fire, 
basting the upper side every five minutes, and once 
more sprinkling pepper and salt over. Turn the pigeons, 
the meat side to the fire, and let them cook very slowly 
until done, which should be in about fifteen minutes more. 
Serve on a very hot dish, with a little dissolved butter 
poured over the birds. 



Lamb's Sweetbreads. 

These make an admirable breakfast dish, and can be 
partly prepared over-night. Trim and wash the sweet- 
breads, put them into a saucepan with sufficient well- 
flavoured stock to cover them, a minced onion, and a sprig 
of lemon thyme, boil gently for fifteen minutes, or a little 
longer if necessary. Take them up, drain, dip in ^gg and 
finely sifted bread-crumbs, mixed with a little flour, 
pepper, and salt. Fry very carefully, so as not to make it 
brown or hard, some small slices of bacon ; keep warm 
whilst you fry the sweetbreads in the fat Avhich has run 



i6o EVERY DAY M^ALS. 

from it, adding, if required, a little piece of butter or 
lard. 

For a breakfast disli, the sweetbread should be served 
without gravy ; but if for an entree, the liquor in whicli 
they were stewed, with slight additions and a little- 
thickening, can be poured round them in the dish. 

Calf's sweetbreads are prepared in the same manner as. 
the above, and can either be fried, finished in a Dutcli 
oven, or served white, with parsley and butter or white- 
sauce. 



Sheep's Brains. 

These are an excellent substitute for sweetbreads, and^ 
if properly cooked, make an imitation that will deceive- 
many persons. At all seasons they are to be had at small 
cost, especially so if it is convenient to buy the whole- 
head for broth, &c. Having carefully washed the brains,, 
boil them fast, so as to harden them without breaking 
them, in well-seasoned gravy. When done, take them up- 
and allow them to remain till quite cold. Then divide- 
each lobe down the middle and dip each piece in Qgg, and. 
afterwards in seasoned bread-crumbs. Fry and serve as. 
directed for sweetbreads. 



LITTLE DISHES. i6] 



Brains and Tongues au Gratin. 

Take the tongues and brains from two sheeps' heads, 
lay the brains in cold water, and thoroughly wash the 
tongues in salt and water. Put both the tongues and 
brains into a stewpan, with sufficient cold water to cover 
them ; add a little salt and let them boil for two minutes ; 
then take them out of the water and throw it away. By 
thus treating any part of the head, perfect cleanliness is 
insured. Put the tongues into a stewpan, with a large 
pinch of saltpetre, a teaspoonful of salt, two onions, a bay- 
leaf, and a quart of water ; let them boil for three hours, 
or until so perfectly tender that they will hardly bear the 
fork. When done, let them remain in the liquor until 
cool, then take off the skin, and set them aside until cold. 
The brains must be boiled separately, and rather fast, in 
a little highly seasoned stock, for ten minutes. When 
ready, let them get cold ; then divide each lobe into 
three or four slices, dip them in o^gg, then in highly 
seasoned bread-crumb very finely sifted ; divide the 
tongues, having first trimmed the roots of all gristle, &c., 
into three or four slices ; ^gg and crumb these also. Put 
an ounce of butter into a frying-pan ; when it froths, put 
in the brains and tongues, and fry first on one side and 
then on the other, until lightly browaied. Serve with a 



i62 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

little gTav3^, flavoured with mushrooms or lemon -juice, 
poured round the dish. 



Brain Fritters. 

Procure an ox braiu, carefull}' wash it, and boil it for 
a quarter of an hour in well-seasoned stock. AVhen the 
brain is cold, cut it into slices as thin as possible, dijD each 
of them in batter, drop them as you do them into fat at 
a temperature of 430°, or that which will brown instantly 
a piece of bread dipped into it. To make the batter, 
mix two large tablespoonfuls of fine flour with four of cold 
water, mix in a tablespoonful of dissolved butter or of fine 
oil, the yolk of an ^g^, and a jDinch of salt and pepper. 
Let the batter stand for two hours, and when ready to 
use, beat the wliite of the eoo- to a strono- froth, and mix 
with it. Do not fry more than two fritters at once ; as 
you take them up, throw them on paper to absorb any 
grease clinging to them, serve on a napkin or ornamental 
dish paper. If this recipe is closely followed, the fritters 
will be light, crisp, delicate morsels, melting in the mouth, 
and form besides a very pretty dish. Garnish with fried 
parsley; take care the parsley is thoroughly dry, put it 
into a small frying-basket, and immerse it for an instant 
in the fat in which the fritters were cooked. Turn it out 
on paper, dry, and serve. 



LITTLE DISHES. 163 



Sweetbread Balls. 

Mince any cooked sweetbread, roll it up with half its 
quantity of bread-crumbs, a little chopped parsley, 
pepper and salt, and if liked, a very small piece of shalot 
minced as finely as possible. Mix these together with 
sufficient Q%g to bind them, then roll them into balls, dip 
them in yolk of ^gg, and dust over wath raspings, and fry 
them in a little butter. 

Put a little brown gravy on a dish and place the balls 
on it. 

Brain or Sweetbread Cutlets. 

Cut the remains of any brains or sweetbreads into 
pieces about the size of hali-a-crown, ^gg them over, and 
dip them in finely-sifted raspings, pepper, salt, and a 
pinch of dried parsley as fine as dust. Fry them in a 
little butter, and then place them round the edge of a 
dish with a piece of fried bread of equal size between 
each. In the centre put a little good gravy made very 
thick. 

Kidneys a la Brochette. 

Split the kidneys in half, and again in quarters, skin 
them, dip each piece in dissolved butter, and sprinkle 



i64 EVERY DAY MEALS, 

them with pepper and salt. Cut some slices of streaked 
bacon, rather fat than otherwise, and divide them into 
pieces as nearly the size of the kidneys as possible. Put 
a piece of kidney on a small skewer, then one of bacon, 
and so on until the skewer is full, the kidneys and bacon 
being pressed together as tightly as possible. Put the 
hroclicttes into the Dutch oven, let them cook slowly, 
basting frequently with the fat which runs from the 
bacon. Take care that the kidneys are not cooked too 
much, so as to become dry and hard ; wdien done slip 
them off the skewers and serve, on a hot dish, with the 
gravy poured over. 



Toasted Kidneys. 

Cut some slices of rather fat streaked bacon and lay 
them on a plate before the fire, or toast them until the 
fat begins to run and they are about half done, lay 
the kidneys, skinned and sjolit open, on the plate, and 
finish toasting the bacon over them. Then manage to hold 
the kidneys on the toasting-fork, so that not a drop of the 
gravy falls on the edge of the plate to dry up and be 
lost ; it should all run into the bacon fat. When the 
gravy ceases to run freely the kidney wdll be done enough. 
If it has been cooked slowly, the kidney will be tender and 
retain much of its gravy without being underdone or 



LITTLE DISHES, 165 

indigestible ; but if, on the contrary, it has been cooked 
rapidly it will be hard and decidedly unwholesome. 
Kidneys may be toasted in the Dutch oven, care being 
taken to pursue the method indicated, so that the gravy 
is not dried up. Some of these little ovens are now made 
to facilitate frequent turning, which is a great advantage. 
Kent's patent Dutch oven is very strong and well made, 
and a handle is cleverly arranged so that anything cooking 
in it can be readily turned without loss of heat or 
moving the oven. 

Kidneys with Mushrooms. 

Dry a half-tin of champignons in a cloth, or if conve- 
nient, prepare a similar quantity of fresh button mush- 
rooms, add to these a few pieces of dried mushrooms, 
previously soaked for ten minutes in tepid water, put 
them into a stewpan with a slice of butter and stir 
constantly for six minutes, then add two or three kidneys 
cut in small neat pieces, in the shape of dice is best, and 
continue stirring until the kidneys are cooked, taking 
care to do them slowly ; at the last moment, season with 
pepper and salt, and serve very hot. Garnish the dish 
with fried sippets of bread. 



1 66 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 



Puree of Mushrooms. 

To serve with broiled chicken, cutlets, &c. — Chop up 
a pound of fresh champignons, simmer them in a little 
milk or broth for ten minutes, then add the crumb of a 
French roll ; stir over the fire until all liquid is absorbed, 
put in an ounce of fresh butter, pepper, and salt, and rub 
through a wire strainer. Put the 'pxirce back into the 
stewpan and let it get hot before serving. Should the 
imrce seem too stiff, add a little milk or cream whilst 
rubbing it through the strainer. 

Baked Mushrooms. 

Trim the stalks and carefully peel the mushrooms ; put 
a slice of butter in a baking dish ; when melted, lay 
in the mushrooms, pepper and salt the upper side, and 
allow them to cook very slowly for about half-an-hour. 
The exact time for cookino- mushrooms cannot be oiven, 
but fine fresh ones cook much more rapidly and yield 
more gravy than when stale or of inferior kinds. 

Mushrooms with Cream Sauce. 

Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan, mix in the 
yolks of two eggs lightly beaten, and the juice of a lemon. 



LITTLE DLSHES. 167 



witli a pinch of pepper and salt, stir this over the fire 
until thickened. Prepare half-a-pint of plam butter 
sauce, and mix all gradually together. Have ready a small 
tin of champignons, or about the same quantity of fresh 
mushrooms chopped, and stewed gently for ten minutes 
in a little broth or milk. Stir them with the liquor in 
Avhich they have stewed into the sauce, and let them 
stand for a few minutes, then spread the mixture on to 
neat slices of toasted bread. The sauce must be a 
good thickness, so that it will not run off the toast, and 
care must taken in the first process not to oil the butter 
or make tlie sauce lumpy. 



Sausages. 

Pel'haps there is no article of diet more universally 
popular than the sausage, and it is one of great antiquity. 
In the " Forme of Cury," a cookery book compiled by the 
cooks of Richard the Second, we find reference to the 
" sausage," which, although it differed somewhat from 
those of modern times, was composed of similar material. 

Mrs. Raffeld, whose book was published in 1769, gives 
a recipe for frying, but not for making, sausages, and Dr. 
Kitchener, writing early in the present century, follows 
the lady's lead. Cooks cannot do better than remember 
the Doctor's directions for frying. After saying, " Sau- 



i68 EVERY DAY MEALS, 



sages are best when quite fresh made," he adds, " put a 
bit of butter or dripping, into a clean frying-pan, as soon 
as it is melted, before it gets hot, put in the sausages, and 
shake the pan for a minute, and keep turning them (be 
careful not to break or prick them in so doing) fry them 
over a verj^ slow fire till they are nicely browned on all 
sides. Tlie secret of frying sausages is, to let them get 
hot very gradually, they then will not break, if they are 
not stale. The common practice to prevent them burst- 
ing, is to prick them with a fork, but this lets the 
gravy out." Following these directions, the doctor re- 
marks, " Sausages are a convenient, easily digestible, and 
invigorating food for the aged, and those whose teeth 
are defective." Whilst fully endorsing these remarks, 
we would observe that they apply only to home-made 
sausages, for it is almost unnecessary to allude to the 
doubtful character of the London sausage as sold in the 
majority of shops. Probably those purveyed in fashion- 
able quarters of the town are not composed of unwhole- 
some material, but then they are far too expensive for 
persons of moderate means, and are extravagant, as bread 
is largely used, and meat may be said to be merely the 
flavouring matter. The machines in use in the laro-e 

o 

manufactories will grind any kind of meat to a pulp so 
that it is impossible to discover of what the sausages are 
composed, and there is perhaps no manufactured article 
which offers such temptations for the substitution of in- 



LITTLE DISHES. 169. 



ferior for good material as the sausage. The spices and 
flavouring substances employed are most cleverly chosen, 
and any flavour required is by their use imparted to the 
meat. Thus, liver, lights, and other inferior portions of 
beef, mutton, pork, or any other of — shall we say — the 
edible animals, are all ground up together, and then 
seasoned according to the requirements of customers, as- 
beef or pork sausages, bread and water being added in 
large proportions. 

It is surprising to find that in these days, when sausages- 
can be most easily and successfully made at home by a 
small machine, that they are less so made than when 
there were no machines suitable for household use. Even 
thirty years ago all home-made sausages were laboriously 
chopped and filled by hand, the last process being one 
requiring a good deal of skill and patience. One of the 
first difiiculties which has to be met is procuring the 
skins for the sausages, these can always be had at shops- 
where the machines are sold, and the butcher who sup- 
phes the pork should, on due notice being given, obtain 
them fresh for customers. There are a number of sausaofe- 
machines of various makers, but Kent's Combination 
Mincer is by far the best and most useful, as it chops suet, 
prepares meat for potting without the aid of the pestle 
and mortar, and does, besides, with different simple ad- 
justments, a variety of mincing operations. 



I70 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Pork Sausages. 

When a pig is cut up in the country, sausages are usually 
made of the trimmings, but when the meat has to be bought 
the chump end of a fore loin or blade bone will be found to 
answer best. The fine, well-fed meat of a full-grown pig, 
known in London as " hog-meat," is every way preferable 
to that called " dairy-fed pork." The fat should be nearly 
in equal proportion to the lean, but of course this matter 
must be arranged to suit the taste of those who will eat 
the sausages. If young pork is used, remove the skin as 
thinly as you can (it is useful for various purposes), and 
then with a sharp knife cut all the flesh from the bones, 
take away all sinews and gristle, and cut the fat and lean 
into strips. Some mincing machines require the meat 
lonofer than others — for the *' Combination" cut it into 
pieces about an inch long and half-an-inch thick. To 
each pound of meat put half-a-gill of gravy made from 
the bones, or water will do, then mix equally with it two 
ounces of bread-crumbs, a large teaspoonful of salt, a 
small one of black pepper and of dried sage. The seasoning 
jsliould be well mixed with the bread, as the meat will 
then be flavoured properly throughout the mass. Arrange 
the skin on the filler, tie it at the end, put the meat, a 
little at a time, into the hopper, turn the handle of the 
machine briskly, and take care the skin is only lightly 



LITTLE DLSHES. 171 

filled. Wlien the sausages are made, tie the skin at the 
other end, pinch them into shape, and then loop them by 
passing one through another, giving a twist to each as you 
<lo them. Fifteen to twenty minutes should be allowed 
for frying sausages, and when done they should be nicely 
browned. A little butter or lard is best for frying, 
and some pieces of light bread may be fried in it when 
the sausages are done, and placed round the dish by way of 
garnish. 

Sausage skins, especially if preserved, should be well 
soaked before using, or they may make the sausages too 
salt. It is a good plan to put the skin on the water-tap 
and allow the water to run through it, as thus it will be 
well washed on the inside. 



Beef Sausages. 

Although good sausages may be made from the coarser 
parts of prime beef, it will be found best to use " buttock 
steak," or, failing that, any tender, juicy steak. Take six 
ounces of beef suet to a pound of lean l)eef, two ounces of 
bread-crumbs, a large teaspoonful of salt, one of black 
pepper, and of sweet herbs dried and sifted : proceed as 
for pork sausages. Fry them slowly, but for rather less 
time than those made of pork. 



172 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Veal and Ham Sausages. 

It will be necessary to have cutlet or the best end of 
the neck for veal sausages. To each pound of veal use 
half-a-pound of ham or bacon, about three ounces lean and 
five ounces fat. Season with a small teaspoonful of pep- 
per, be careful not to use too much salt, as the ham may 
give almost enough : in any case a very small teaspoonful 
will suffice. Moisten the meat with water, or gravy made 
from the trimmings of veal and ham, and proceed as for 
pork sausages. An ounce of bread to the pound of meat 
can be used if desired. 



Bath Polonies. 

Mince pork as for sausages, season it with coriander, 
allspice, long pepper, pepper and salt. Bullock's skins 
must be used, and must not be filled too tightly. Put the 
polonies into warm water with a little red Sanders to 
colour the skins, let them get hot very gradually, and as 
soon as the water is approaching boiling-point reduce 
the heat, because if the polonies boil the skins will burst. 
About half-an-hour will cook them in the hot water, 
and when done they will look firm and plump. 



I 



LITTLE DISHES. 173 



Rump Steak Fie. 

Put a layer of fine tender rump steak, or of fillet steak 
at the bottom of a pie -dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, 
allowing a large teaspoonful of salt and a small one of 
pepper to each pound of steak. Skin and split some 
sheep's kidneys — two are a fair allowance to a pound of 
steak — cut each in four slices the long way of the kidney, 
and lay them on the steak. Mushrooms may be used 
•either as an addition or instead of the kidneys. Place 
another layer of steak over these and fill up the dish with 
stock or water. An onion minced and boiled in the water 
or stock for the gravy is an excellent addition. The steak 
should be freed from all fat, which never bakes well, and 
makes the pie greasy and indigestible. 

Having put all the materials in the dish, cover up the 
pie with puff pastry as at p. 215, and bake in a moderate 
oven until the gravy boils, and the crust is firm in the 
centre. 

For a family pie, use beef instead of mutton kidney, and 
add a few slices of raw potato. For the crust use suet 
very finely shred, roll it in with the dry flour a little at a 
time. Make it into a paste with half-a-pint of water to a 
pound of flour. Three-quarters of a pound of suet to a 
pound of flour makes a good crust, but a little more suet 
may be allowed with advantage. Pvoll the paste out as 



174 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

thill as puff-pastry, beating it occasionally to break up the 
suet ; put four or five layers on the edge of the dish, and 
do not make the cover too thick. 



Veal and Ham Pie. 



I 



Make and raise the crust in the same manner as for 
pork pie (p. 41). Cut a jDound of veal cutlet, or of the 
meat of the best end of the neck into dice, and cut up in 
like manner a quarter of a pound of ham in about equal 
proportions of fat and lean. Mix the veal and ham toge- 
ther, season with a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of black pepper, put the meat in the crust, finish as for 
pork pie. Make a teacupful of gravy from the veal 
trimmings, add to it a quarter of an ounce of Nelson's, 
gelatine. When the pie is nearly cold, take off the rose 
at the top, make a hole and pour the jelly into it through 
a funnel, and when this is done replace the ornament, and 
let the pie stand until perfectly cold. 



Chicken Pie. 

Boil a chicken very gently for three-quarters of an hour 
with half-a-pound of bacon, two onions, and a sprig of 
thyme and parsley, half-a-teaspoonful of salt, and three 
pints of water. Take up the chicken and remove all the 



LITTLE DISHES. 175 

meat carefully from the bones, which return to the liquor 
and allow it to boil fast until reduced to half-a-pint, then 
strain it. Cut up the bacon boiled with the chicken into 
thin slices, lay them at the bottom of a tart-dish, and 
arrange over it the meat of the chicken. Koll half-a- 
pound of sausage-meat or veal and ham forcemeat into 
small balls, using the yolk of an Qgg to bind it. Lay these 
between the pieces of chicken, and, overall, the remaining 
slices of bacon. Having taken off the fat, season the 
gravy highly wdth about a small teaspoonful of white 
pepper, and one of salt, pour it into the dish, and put on a 
cover of puff-pastry. Bake in a moderate oven for an 
hour, or until it is done. 



Rabbit Pie. 

If the rabbit is young and tender, three-quarters of an 
hour will be sufficient time to boil it, as for chicken pie. 
Proceed exactly as directed for chicken pie, adding the 
rabbit's liver finely minced, and a little minced parsley 
to the forcemeat. 

Chicken and rabbit pies may be served either hot or 
cold. 



176 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Goose Pie. 

The remains of a roast goose are suitable for this pie- 
Out up the meat from the bones, which, with the skin 
and any stuffing which may be left, boil for two hours. 
When done, there should be a pint of strong gi*avy. Let 
it get cool and remove every particle of grease. At the 
bottom of a tart dish put a thin layer of good apple sauce, 
and on this the meat of the goose. Over this put another 
layer of apple sauce, and pour in as much grav}^ as the 
pie will hold. As there is no other seasoning, the gravy 
will require to be made very tasty with pepper and salt. 
If the pie is to be eaten hot, make a crust of shred 
suet. 

If goose not previously roasted is used to make the 
pie it must be stewed for an hour or more. The apple 
sauce can be omitted, in which case a few boiled and 
minced onions can be used. 

Pigeon Pie. 

Lay at the bottom of a large pie dish a thin layer of 
fine tender rump steak, and on this four pigeons cut in 
half, sprinkle with pepper and salt, allowing a teaspoonful 
of each to a pound of meat. Boil six eggs hard, put in 
the volks and forcemeat balls between each piece of 



LITTLE DISHES. lyy 

pigeon, and over them very thin slices of bacon cured 
without saltpetre, as this is apt to turn the contents of 
the pie red. If, however, the bacon is lightly boiled 
before putting into the pie this will not happen. Have 
ready a strong gravy made from beef, put in as much as 
the pie will hold, cover with puff paste (p. 215), and 
bake for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. A few 
mushrooms are a great addition to the pie. 

Care should be taken to have the pigeons very fresh, 
and the pie should never be kept more than two days 
even in cold weather, as there is some peculiarity in the 
flesh of the pigeon which renders it liable to turn acid 
soon after it is baked in a pie, and in this state it is most 
unwholesome. 

Game Pasty. 

The crust for a game pie can either be raised in the 
same manner as that for a pork pie, or be made in a tin 
mould ; in this latter case six ounces of butter or lard may 
be used to the pound of flour. The greater the variety 
of game used to make a pasty the better, but a very good 
result may be obtained with two kinds. The great fault 
of home-made game pies is that they are often dry. To 
obviate this a good forcemeat must be made. Save the 
livers of the game, and if possible use that of more than 
one hare, beat them up in a mortar with five or six times 



178 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

tlieir weight of fine calf's liver all previously simmered 
till cooked in stock. Add to this its weight of fat bacon 
also pounded. Mix the forcemeat well together, season 
with marjoram, thyme, and savory, a ]3inch of basil, 
cayenne pepper, and salt, and a very small shred of 
garlic. Bone and skin the game, lay a slice of fat ham at 
the bottom of the pie, then a layer of the forcemeat nearly 
an inch thick, put in the game, white and brown meat 
alternately, sprinkle with cayenne pepper and salt, then 
more forcemeat, and so on until the crust is full, placing 
over the w^hole of the contents a thick covering of fat 
ham. Let the pie bake in a quick oven for ten minutes, 
then moderate the heat and allow it to cook gently for 
two hours, or until the juices begin to simmer. Make a 
strong grav}^ of the bones and trimmings with a small 
piece of the knuckle of veal, and when the pie is cold pour 
in the gravy (see pork pie, p. 41). 

Pate de Foies Gras. 

In towns it is generally possible to bespeak from the 
poulterers sufficient fat livers at a moderate cost. Six 
fine livers will make a good-sized pie. Make a crust 
of a pound of flour and four ounces of lard as directed for 
pork pie (p. 41). Cut up half a pound of calf's liver, 
lay it in a ste'\\^an with a minced shalot, a sprig of 
parsley, a pinch of salt and of finely-sifted herbs, and half 



LITTLE DISHES. i79 



a pound of fat bacon. Allow these to fry very gently for 
a quarter of an hour^ taking care not to let the liver or 
bacon become the least brown. Pound the liver and 
bacon in a mortar, if necessary add salt, spread a layer of 
this about an inch thick at the bottom of the pie ; cut up 
the livers of the geese into neat pieces about an inch 
square, slice some truffles and press them both into the 
forcemeat, lightly sprinkle with salt and pepper, and 
then fill up the pie w^ith forcemeat, put on the cover, 
finish as pork pie, and bake in a moderate oven for an 
hour and a quarter. 



Pressed Beef. 

Take a nice square piece of the thick flank, cure it 
lightly as directed for spiced beef (p. 34), boil it in 
stock with a bay leaf and an onion and a bundle of sweet 
herbs. When perfectly tender place it between two 
dishes with heavy weights on the top. The next day trim 
it neatly and glaze. This looks nice, and is improved if 
when cold it is cut to the size of a deep tin dish, and when 
placed in it a clear meat jelly is poured over so as to 
run well underneath it. When turned on to its dish to 
be served, the meat should be found covered with a bright, 
clear jelly, a quarter to half an inch thick. 



n2 



I So E VER 1 ' DA V MEALS. 



Eolled Beef. 

Choose a piece of the thick flaDk long enough to roll 
well, about four pounds will be enough for a small collar- 
ing tin, put it into a pickle as directed for spiced beef. 
When about to cook, take out the bones and gristle and 
remove all skin, roll the meat round, secure it with 
string, and boil gently until it is perfectly tender. Re- 
move the string, put the meat into the collaring tin, set a 
weight on the top, and let it stand until the next day. 

The bones, &c., taken out of the meat should be boiled 
in the water with it. 



Galantine. 

Salt the rind of a loin of pork for a few days. It must 
not have on it more than a quarter of an inch of fat. 
AYhen required for use soak it to make it roll well, lay it 
fiat, and place on it a layer of lean ham, then one of 
sausage-meat, or other forcemeat, highly seasoned with 
pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, mixed into a paste with an 
e^fi" and one-fourth of its weig^ht in fine bread-crumbs, and 
made very tasty with essence of anchovy ; pass a knife 
twice over a clove of garlic and stir the mixture, and, if 
not objected to, add a minced shalot. 



LITTLE DLSHES. i8r 



Forcemeat for galantine should always have fat in 
equal proportion to the lean, then it will not eat dry. 

On the forcemeat put a layer of cooked tongue, pig's or 
sheep's will do, if you have any pieces of game, fowl, or 
rabbit at your command they make an improvement. Add 
a few pistachio kernels, blanched, and mushrooms if they 
are to be had. On this press another layer of forcemeat, 
as before, and then roll all up tightly in the skin. Put 
it into a cloth and bind it with broad tape. Boil it in 
weak stock, or, if you have none, water salted and pep- 
pered, an onion or two, some cloves, a little fat, and a few 
hacon bones. It will take from three to four hours ac- 
cording to the size. When done, let it get cool in the 
liquor, then take it up, but do not remove the cloth, 
place it to press between two dishes, and put a heavy 
weight on the top. Let it remain twenty-four hours, 
then remove the cloth, trim the ends, and glaze it. 

Fowls which are a little too old for roasting make ex- 
cellent galantines. They should be boned, the meat 
divided into convenient pieces and placed at intervals 
among the forcemeat. 



White Galantine. 

This is an elegant way of dressing a fowl for a cere- 
monial supper or breakfast dish, and is not difficult to 



1 82 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

manage. Have a fowl boned, lay it flat on a board, skin 
doAvn wards, sprinkle it with salt and pej)per and a very 
little sweet herb. Make an omelet of the yolks of three 
eggs, and another of the whites, lay the first on the fowl, 
then a layer of fat bacon or ham, then the white omelet, 
then a layer of lean ham. Over this spread about a 
pound of good highly-seasoned forcemeat or sausage- 
meat. A few mushrooms may be added with advan- 
tage. Now roll up the galantine tightly, keeping it 
round so as to resemble a roll pudding, tie it up in a 
cloth and bind with tape in order to keep the shape. 

Boil the galantine very slowly for two hours in stock 
or salted water, with an onion and turnijD, and when 
done let it cool in the liquor. Put the galantine be 
tween two dishes, placing weights on the top, and 
let it remain in this press for twelve hours. The tape 
should be unwound before pressing, but the ends must 
be left securely tied. Take care to put the joins of the 
cloth OD the under side, so as to keep the upper side of 
the galantine smooth. 

Prepare a pint of good white sauce, it must be thick^ 
with milk, and when nearly cold, stir in half-an- ounce of 
Nelson's gelatine, dissolved in a gill of milk. Spread this 
with a large knife smoothly on the galantine, taking care 
to cover the whole surface. Dipping the knife occa- 
sionally in boiling water will assist the smooth spreading 
of the white glaze. Cut pretty little shapes of beetroot,. 



LITTLE DISHES. 183 

— leaves, flowers, &c., — ornament the galantine, and disli 
with these and small sprigs of endive and watercress. 

Mock Brawn. 

Get a fine sheep's head, thoroughly clean it and boil it 
for five minutes in salt and water. Then put it into fresh 
water with a pound of pickled pork, and boil both until 
thoroughly done. The addition of pig's feet or a little 
rind of pork thoroughly cooked is a great improvement. 
When done, carefully take the meat from the head, cut 
it up wdth the pork, mix with the brains and tongue, and 
finish as directed for brawm. 



Yorkshire Brawn. 

Take a pig's head and feet, thoroughly cleanse them 
cut the head and ears up, put it into a stewpan, cover 
with water, and add a teaspoon ful of salt, a good pinch of 
pepper, and chopped sage. Place it on the fire until it 
boils, then simmer gently until all the meat is off the 
bones. Take it up and chop it in a hot basin, add all 
the liquor in which the meat has boiled, stir up well, and 
put it into earthenware jelly moulds. 

This is very good, but will not keep long in warm 
weather. 



J84 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

The American dish Scrappel is a variation of the 
above, a portion of which might be tried as follows : — 

When the brawn is prepared ready for moulds, add a 
little more seasoning for scrappel, and, if liked, a little 
sage, put the brawn in a stewpan, and when it boils, stir 
in sufficient new white Indian corn meal to make it thick. 
Stir over the fire for ten minutes, pour the scrappel into 
dishes, smooth over with a knife, and when set cut it in 
neat slices, fry brown, and serve hot. 



Croquettes. 

Croquettes of all kinds, fish, game, poultr}^, or any 
deUcate meat can be successfully made on the following 
model. Whatever material is used must be finely 
minced or pounded. Care is required in making the 
sauce, if it is too thin it is difficult to mould the cro- 
quettes, and ice Avill be required to set it. Croquettes of 
game without any flavouring except a little salt and 
cayenne are generally acceptable as a breakfast dish. 
Preserved lobster, Bray and Hayes, or Moirs, make ver}^ 
good croquettes for an entree, and small scraps of any 
kind can thus be made into a very good dish. 



LITTLE DISHES. 185 



Croquettes of Salmon. 

With a wooden spoon beat up to a paste half-a-pound 
-of cooked salmon and mix it with the following sauce : — 
Put one ounce of fine flour into a stewpan with half a 
gill of cold water, stir this over a slow fire very rapidly 
until it forms a paste, then add one ounce of butter, and 
stir until well incorporated. Mix in a small teaspoonful 
of essence of shrimps or anchovies, with a pinch of salt and 
pepper. Take the stewpan off the fire and stir the yolk 
of an Qgg briskly into the sauce, thoroughly mix it with 
the pounded salmon, spread it out on a plate until it is 
cool. Flour your hands, take a small piece of the croquette 
mixture, roll into a ball, or into the shape of a cork, then 
pass it through very finely-sifted and dried bread-crumbs 
dip into beaten Qgg and again into the crumbs. Eepeat 
the process until all the mixture is used, put the croquettes 
as you do them into a wire frying-basket, which shake 
very gently, when all are placed in it, in order to free them 
from superfluous crumbs. Have ready a stewpan half 
full of boiling fat, dip the basket in, gently moving it 
about and taking care the croquettes are covered with fat. 
In about a minute they will become a delicate brown, and 
will then be done. Turn them on to paper to absorb any 
superfluous fat, serve them on a napkin or ornamental 
dish paper. 



i86 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

No more croquettes than will lie at the bottom of the 
basket without touching each other should be fried at one 
time. 

Savoury Rice Croquettes. 

The quickest and best Avay to prepare rice for croquettes- 
is to bake it, and care must be had to have it dry, or it 
will be difficult to mould. Wash a quarter of a pound of 
fine rice, put it into a pie-dish with a pint of milk, break 
half-an-ounce of butter in to prevent the rice getting hard 
on the top. Bake for an hour, or until the rice is dry. 
When done, take off' the brown skin, and, whilst the rice 
is still hot, stir in the yolk of an Qg<g ; pepper and salt to 
taste. Let it get cold. Have ready some finely-minced 
well seasoned meat, or paste, prepared as for salmon 
croquettes, flour jour hands, and roll up little pieces about 
the thickness of the fourth finger, and less than an inch 
long. Again flour your hand, spread out a spoonful, and 
put your meat in the middle of it, fold over the rice 
so as to enclose this, and make the croquettes into tiie 
shape of an Qgg. Finish as directed above. The quantity 
of rice given will make about twelve croquettes. 

Sweet Croquettes of rice are made in the same 
manner as the above. Substitute sugar for salt, and 
flavour the rice with grated lemon peel. Use a dried 
cherry, plum, or apple marmalade, and finish as above. 



LITTLE DISHES. 187 



Kromeskies. 

Kromeskies may be made of any kind of cooked fish, 
lobster, or oysters, of game, poultry, or veal. Oyster 
kromeskies are much esteemed, and if made by the 
following recipe are not extravagant. The quantities 
given will make eight kromeskies, the oysters used being 
large and fat :— Strain the liquor of eight oysters and add 
sufficient cold water to make half a gill of liquor, Avhich 
put into a stewpan with a heaped tablespoonful of fine 
flour, work this over a slow fire until it becomes a stiff 
paste, then put in half-an- ounce of fine fresh butter, and 
stir until mixed in. Take the stewpan off the fire and 
work in the yolk of an ^gg, a small teaspoonful of 
Burgess' essence of anchovy, a pinch of cayenne pepper 
and of salt. Great care must be taken to have this 
sauce, or, as it is sometimes called, panade, very stiff, 
more like a firm pudding than a liquid sauce. When this 
is ready, break up the oysters, — the beard and hard white 
part having been removed, — with a fish knife, and mix 
them with the sauce. Spread it out on a plate to cool, 
whilst you prepare the bacon and butter. Have ready a 
piece of the fat of the back of fine large bacon, from which 
you can conveniently cut very thin slices. The bacon 
must have been previously boiled for twenty minutes 
and be quite cold before cutting into slices as thin as a 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



-wafer. Put a lieaiDed tea-sjDoonful of the oyster mixture 
on a slice of the bacon, roll it over in the shape of a cork, 
and, having made the whole number, let them remain 
whilst you prepare the following batter : — Mix gradually 
two large tablespoonfuls of fine flour with four of cold 
water — take care to keep this perfectly smooth — mix in a 
tablespoonful of oil or dissolved butter, the yolk of an egg, 
and a small pinch of salt. When ready to use, beat up 
the white of the ^g^ to a strong froth, and stir it lightly 
into the batter. Have ready a small stewpan of hot fat. 
Care must be taken to have it of the right temperature, 
if too hot it causes the batter to fly off, and if not hot 
enough will sodden the kromeskies. When the fat is 
ready, dip each kromesky in the batter, take it out in a 
tablespoon, and dip it with the batter in the spoon 
into the fat. It will take less than a minute to cook, and 
when done will be a nice light golden brown. Put it 
l)etween pa^Der to absorb any grease clinging to it. 
Eemove with a pierced spoon any little pieces of batter 
remaining in the fat, and finish the whole of the kromes- 
kies in the same manner. If preferred two, or more, may 
be fried at one time, but in the long run nothing is gained 
by so doing. When all are done, place them on an orna- 
mental dish paper, and serve quickly. Garnish with fried 
parsley. 

If it can be procured without too much exjDense, calf's 
udder is preferable to bacon for wrapping the kromeskies ; 



LITTLE DISHES. 1S9 



if the latter is used it must be remembered that it ought 
to be so thin, and of such fine quality, as almost to melt 
away in the frying. A well prepared kromesky will not 
be greasy or taste of the bacon, but be, as it is now some- 
times called, a veritable ''angel on horseback." 

A quarter of a pound of chopped chicken, game, or 
veal will make about the same quantity of kromeskies as 
the oysters. Add a few minced button mushrooms, a. 
little ham, shred parsley, or any suitable flavouring. 
The sauce can be made of good white stock, mushroom 
hquor, or water, and in the latter case be made sufficiently 
tasty with pepper and salt. 

The frying batter will be suitable for any fish or meat 
dish, and for apple or orange fritters. 

Fried Bread Cases. 

Cut the crust as thinly as possible from a French roll,, 
which divide into two parts. Trim the ends of each 
piece, and they will stand like a basket, and be of the 
same height and shape. With a round cutter mark an 
incision in the centre, and with a knife carefully take out 
as much crumb as possible without making holes in the 
side or bottom, the object being to make a neat case 
which, when fried, will contain either minced meat, curry, 
or stewed fruit. When the cases are prepared, fry them 
as directed for fried bread (p. 97). 



I go 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



If preferred, a small tin loaf may be prepared in 
exactly the same manner as the roll, or pieces can be 
shaped from a household loaf. 



Curries. 

These are made in great variety, and by many different 
recipes. Perhaps there is no dish which in England it is 
so difficult to make suitable to the taste of Anglo-Indians. 
The fresh fruits, the grated cocoa-nuts, the carefully pre- 
pared curry powders and paste which are readily attain- 
able in India are not always to be found here, and for 
these reasons only general rules for preparing curries can 
be given. Captain White's curry-paste gives to curries 
the flavour of tamarinds and other ingredients used in 
India, but the curries most liked by English eaters are 
those which are lightly flavoured, and not too hot. 
Any kind of fish, meat, game, or poultry is suitable for 
curries, cold cooked provisions and vegetables answer very 
well for them. The remains of a roasted loin of dairy-fed 
pork is very good. If the meat has to be fresh cooked for 
it, choose about a pound and a half of the best end of the 
fore loin. Cut it into small chops, jDlace them in a stewpan 
in which an ounce of butter has been dissolved, sprinkle 
curry powder and salt over the chops, and slice in two onions. 



LITTLE DISHES. 191 

Put the stewpan on the range at a very low heat, and 
allow the meat to cook slowly for two hours in its OAvn 
juices. If it becomes dry a spoonful or two of water or 
gravy must be added from time to time. When the meat 
is ready — it must be very well done — take it out of the 
Btewpan, put it in a basin, set it in a saucepan of water 
and keep warm whilst you prepare the gravy. Put a 
gill of cold water into the stewpan, which will cause 
the fat to rise ; take it all off, then put in a minced onion, 
boil it until tender, stir in a teaspoonful of curry powder, 
one of Captain White's curry paste, and a tablespoonful of 
fine flour mixed smooth in rather less than half a pint of new 
milk. Stir the gravy over the fire until thickened, put in 
the meat, taste if salt enough, and let them simmer very 
gently together for a quarter of an hour. Let boiled rice 
be handed round with the curry. 

If preferred, instead of Captain White's paste, a sharp 
apple may be substituted, which should be boiled with 
the minced onion ; a little tomato conserve is a good 
addition, or mushroom vinegar or lemon juice. 

With some kinds of curry thin pieces of cooked ham 
-are handed round, and boiled rice is universally served 
with them. The meat for curries is always so well cooked 
as to be eaten with a fork and spoon by those who 
prefer to do so. The best curries can be made in 
Captain Warren's pot, which is to be had at a moderate 
price. 



1 92 E VER V DA V MEALS. 

An acceptable kind of curry is made as follows : — Cut 
two pounds of meat into small pieces, chop two or three 
onions, add salt, a little cayenne pepper, a teacupful of 
milk, and stir all together. Fry a third onion in a quarter 
of a pound of butter, take it out, and having mixed a 
spoonful of turmeric in a little water ; stir it into the 
butter over the fire for five minutes, taking care it doesi 
not burn. To this put all the other ingredients, with 
the fried onions, stirring well together. As soon as it boils- 
add a little water, and repeat this as often as necessary 
until the meat becomes tender, when put as much water- 
as will cover it, and let it simmer until the gravy is much 
reduced. This dish requires five hours to prepare and 
simmer it, as well as great care and attention during the 
whole process. Only sufficient turmeric to give a yellow- 
ish tinge mAist be used; if coriander is liked, it may ba- 
added. 

Curried Eggs are used as an entree and a breakfast 
dish. They are first boiled hard, and then, either whole- 
or in slices, re- warmed in a good curry sauce. 



Dry Curry. 

Fry a minced onion in butter until lightly browned,. 
cut up the flesh of cooked chicken legs, or any other 
tender meats, into dice, mix them with the onions, and stir 
them too-ether over the fire until the meat is hot through. 



LITTLE DISHES. 193 



Sprinkle over it about a saltspoonful of curry-powder, and 
salt to taste. Having thoroughly mixed the curry-powder 
with the meat, pour over it a tablespoonful of milk or cream, 
and stir over the fire until the moisture has dried up. 
Celery salt may be used instead of plain salt, and some 
persons add a few drops of lemon juice when the curry is 
finished. 



Rice for Curries. 

Patna is the best rice for curries. It should not be 
small or broken, and, if fine, costs as much as " Carolina." 
Well wash the rice, throw it into a saucepan with plenty 
of boiling water and a little salt. Keep the saucepan 
boihng fast for fifteen minutes, then try a grain of rice by 
rubbing it between the thumb and finger ; if it crumbles 
it is done, if not, boil a few minutes longer. When done 
strain the rice into a colander, and pour quickly over it a 
small cup of cold water: this will cause the grain to 
separate. Then return the rice to a dry saucepan, shake 
over the fire for a minute, and it will be ready. The 
saucepan used for rice requires to be scrupulously clean, as 
if otherwise the rice will take a slight green or yellow 
tinge. It is almost needless to say that when properly 
cooked, rice is a very pure white. 



,94 E VER V DA V ME A LS. 



Vol au Vent. 

For the case prepare fine pnff-pastry (as at p. 215). 
Cut out rounds, or shapes, with cutters made for the 
purpose. If a high case be desired there shoukl be at 
least four layers of pastry a quarter of an inch thick. 
Each of these should be lightly wetted with white of egg. 
Place the case on a floured baking sheet, taking great 
care to keep the shape. With a cutter of the same 
form, but two or three sizes smaller, make an incision 
within an inch of the edge, take your sharp knife and 
cut down carefully round this mark to within one layer of 
paste from the bottom. Brusli over the edges of the case 
with the yolk of an Qgg, and bake it in a good oven, care 
being had that it is not so hot as to brown the outside of 
the crust, which would prevent its rising. A pound case 
will take about three-quarters of an hour to bake; 
when done remove from the centre with a sharp knife all 
the soft greasy portion. When ready to serve, the case 
must be re-warmed, and can be filled with any delicate 
preparation of oysters, sweetbread, chicken, turbot, 
salmon quenelles, and other things, but with whatever 
is used a rich, highly-flavoured, yet delicate sauce must be 

added. 

The following is given as an example :— Take the m- 
ferior parts of a chicken, such as the drumsticks, the 



LITTLE DISHES. 195 



back and the neck with all the bones, reserving the white 
meat either to make the vol au vent, or for some otlier 
entree ; or, use a small yonng rabbit, with a slice of ham, 
an onion/ a pound of the scrag of the neck of veal, an 
onion, and a dozen button mushrooms. Boil for tliree 
hours in two quarts of water, by which time it should be 
reduced to a quart. Strain the gravy, take off all fat, boil 
it in a stewpan without the lid until reduced to half a 
pint. Mix a dessertspoonful of fine flour in a gill of 
cream, stir it into the gravy and simmer for five minutes, 
add salt and cayenne pepper, then put into the sauce, 
which will very well represent a sauce Jiiianciere, pieces 
of cooked sweetbread, cut into dice, cockscombs, stewed 
button mushrooms, and, if you will afford them, truffles. 
Let all get hot through without coming to the boiling 
point, and lastly add a few oysters cut in quarters. 

A good cook will be able to prepare the sauce and 
materials for a vol au vent at a moderate expense, and it 
will often happen that the basis of the gravy is at hand 
from the boiling of poultry and the remains of that used 
for other dishes, the special flavour of the sauce being 
given by mushrooms, oyster liquor, or ham. 

Sausage Roll. 



« 



Roll out a square of fine puff-paste to about four 
inches. Put on one half of it a piece of sausage-meat 

o 2 



196 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

rolled like a cork, and fold over the other half, joining the 
paste neatly at the edges, and place the rolls on a floured 
baking sheet as you do them. They should be allowed to 
remain in the oven at least twenty minutes, in order that 
the meat may be well cooked. It is usual to re-warm 
sausage rolls at the time of serving, but they are very 
good eaten cold. 



Oyster Patties. 

Cut out three layers of puff-jDaste (p. 215), each layer 
having five folds, with the patty-cutters, and join them 
lightly together with white of ^^g. Make an incision in 
the centre of the patty crust with a plain cutter two sizes 
smaller than the outer riog, then with a sharp knife cut 
round this so as to loosen the paste nearly to the bottom 
of the last layer. Place the cases on a floured baking 
sheet and put them in a quick oven. When done, with a 
pointed knife, or the handle of a teaspoon, remove all the 
soft part from the interior of the cases, and, when ready to 
serve, put in the oysters slightly warmed in the following 
sauce : — Mix, for each dozen oysters, two ounces of flour 
with a gill-and-a-half of the oyster liquor, stir it over the 
fire, adding, by degrees, a gill of cream and an ounce of 
butter. When the sauce is thick put in the oysters, allow 
them to remain in it' without additional heat for ten 



LITTLE DISHES. 197 

minutes, add a small pinch of cayenne pepper, and it will 
be ready for the cases. If the oysters are fine and fat, one 
will be sufficient for each case with sauce to fill it up. 



Lobster Rolls. 

Cut up the lobster into small pieces, mixing with it all 
the soft parts of the body. IMake a sauce as follows: — 
Put two ounces of fine flour into a saucepan with a gill of 
milk or cream, stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, 
then add two ounces of fine fresh butter, and work the 
paste vigorously over the fire until it is well incorporated. 
Take off the fire and add the yolks of two eggs, taking 
care they are thoroughly mixed, add a pinch of cayenne, a 
few drops of essence of anchovies, and mix the lobster and 
the sauce together. Roll out puff-paste four inches 
square, put a tablespoonful of the lobster in the centre, 
fold over so as to form a case, press neatly together and 
trim the edges. Place on a floured baking sheet and bake 
for fifteen minutes. 



Eggs and Bacon. 

A very relishing breakfast dish may be made by break- 
ing eggs into a dish and toasting over it slices of streaked 
bacon, as fat as possible, allowing all the drippings to fall 



198 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

on the eggs. By the time the bacon has been slowly cooked, 
the eggs also will be done. Serve with or without the 
bacon, and if too rich pour away the fat which surrounds 
the eggs. Another way is to toast slices of nice light 
bread, or roll, and lav it on a dish before the fire, breaking 
the eggs on the toast and allowing the drippings from 
rashers of bacon to fall on both. 

A nice little dish may be prepared by beating up an 
^gg with a spoonful of milk or cream, a pinch of pepper 
and salt, and letting it set in the oven on a plate well 
greased with butter or bacon fat. The Qgg should be only 
lightly set, and it is an excellent imitation of omelet. 

Hard Eggs in Gravy. 

The eggs should in the first instance be boiled as 
lightly as consistent with removing the shells. Four to 
five minutes will be sufficient. As soon as you take up 
the Qgg plunge it into cold water, which will enable you 
immediately to take off the shell without at all breaking 
the white. Have ready in a saucepan sufficient nicely- 
seasoned broth to cover the eggs. Let them simmer to- 
gether for five minutes, then take the eggs from the broth 
and serve them whole on a piece of toast well moistened 
with the broth ; or, if preferred, a slice of French roll 
buttered may be substituted. White sauce made from 
milk and flour, of the consistency of good cream, nicely 



LITTLE DISHES. I99 

seasoned, and flavoured with onion, may be used instead 
of broth, if preferred. Eggs which have been left from 
breakfast the day before may be used up in this way wdth 
advantage. Hard eggs may also be sliced and Avarmed in 
gravy. 



Eggs en Surtout. 

Dissolve half-an-ounce of butter on a dish fit to go to 
table, break three eggs on to it. Beat up the yolks of 
two eggs, mince very fine an anchovy, six capers, a large 
pinch of parsley, about the same quantity of chives, or 
half a small shalot, a pinch of pepper, a gi'ate of nutmeg, 
and salt to taste. Mix all w^ell together. Wliisk the two 
wdiites of Q^%, well mix them with the ^gg, anchovy, &c., 
&c., and pour over the three eggs on the dish. Put the 
dish in a hot oven, so that the eggs may set quickly ; they 
must not be the least hard ; two or three minutes should 
suffice to cook them. 



Egg Balls. 

Boil three or four eggs for ten minutes : plunge them 
into cold water for a minute, and then remove the shells. 
Take out the yolks and rub them to powder with a 
wooden spoon, mix them with a pinch of flour and suffi- 



200 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 



cient raw ^gg to make tliem into a stiff paste, add jDepper 
and salt to taste. Flour your bands and roll the paste 
into little balls, — tbey sbould not be larger than marbles,, 
drop them into a saucepan of boiling water and poach 
them for rather less than a minute. 



Forcemeat Balls. 

Soak the crumb of half a French roll in milk, squeeze 
it as dry as possible, put it into a stewpan with a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, and work it over the fire until 
it becomes a stiff paste. Add an Qgg and continue stirring 
the paste until it is again dry. Take it oiBf the tire and 
thoroughly incorporate with it two ounces of pounded, 
potted, or sausage meat, add a pinch of parsley chopped 
very fine, and a few leaves of thyme, taste that it is 
highly seasoned and set aside until cold. Flour your 
hands, and roll up as directed for Egg Balls, fry them 
quickly in a little butter until a light brown. 



Oatmeal Porridge. 

Boil a quart of water, drop in with one hand, by de- 
grees, stirring with a wooden spoon in. the other, two 
ounces of oatmeal and a teaspoonful of salt. Let the por- 
ridge boil for half-an-hour after all the meal is stirred in. 



LITTLE DISHES. 201 

During the boiling the porridge must be frequently 
stirred to prevent sticking to the saucepan. 

When done pour the porridge into a bowl and serve hot,, 
with milk or cream. It should, when finished, be like a 
delicate jelly, set, but not stiff. 



Italian Maize Flour Porridge. 

Put one pint of water into a stewpan, when boiling add a 
little salt, then stir in with a wooden spoon or stick 
sufficient coarse maize flour to make it the consistency 
required, boil it for twenty minutes, stirring almost con- 
tinually, pour it into plates, and eat with milk in the 
same manner as oatmeal porridge. 



Polenta. 

Put one pint of water in a stewpan, when it boils add a 
little salt, and stir in with a stick sufficient coarse yellow- 
maize flour to make it very thick, continue stirring till 
the mixture is well cooked ; which you can tell by its 
rising in bubbles, then take it out with a spoon on to a 
napkin and mould the paste into the shape of a ball ; let 
it cool for a few minutes, then cut it in slices, lay them 
in a dish, and sprinkle each layer with Parmesan cheese,. 



202 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

•and pour two ounces of dissolved butter over it ; it may be 
■eaten in this manner, or put in a brisk oven and baked. 

The polenta, when it comes out of the stewpan very hot> 
is nice served with sausages or little birds ; the latter laid 
on the polenta, and gravy over them. 



Sandwiches a la Chateaubriand. 

Have rolls made to order as, for dinner, of the size 
usually sold at three a penny, let them be nicely rasped. 
The bread should be of the finest and whitest quality, and 
if made of Vienna flour will be rather more expensive 
than ordinary rolls. Cut a round from the bottom, within 
half-an-inch of the edge of the roll, set it aside for future 
xise. Scrape out as much as possible of the crumb of the 
roll without making holes in the crust. 

Prepare chicken and tongue, or any other meat you 
like, to fill the rolls as follows : — Mince very fine cooked 
veal and ham, or chicken and tongue, or oysters, or 
lobster may be used, and to two tablespoonfuls of the 
meat add one of reduced white sauce. To make this, stir 
•over the fire until it gets thick, one tablespoonful of fine 
ilour with a f]^ill of milk, cream, or sfood white broth, then 
mix in two ounces of butter, stirring very rapidly to pre- 
vent the sauce getting lumjDy or burning, add j^epper, 
salt, a very small pinch of nutmeg, and a little chopped 



LITTLE DLSHES. 203 



parsley. When the sauce is cold, mix it with the meat 
iind fill the rolls, putting in the round at the bottom. 
Place the rolls tastefully on a suitable dish, either for 
supper, luncheon, or high tea. 



Anchovy Sandwiches. 

Use the best anchovies, when taken out of the pickle 
steep them in milk for two hours, the bone will then come 
out easily. Wipe and trim the fish and cut them into 
pieces about half-an-inch long, mix them with sauce made 
as for Chateaubriand sandwiches. Cut very thin slices of 
brown bread, spread them very lightly with the sauce. 
Place on one slice, evenly and neatly, enough of the 
anchovy mixture to cover it, put over this a slice of the 
bread spread with sauce, press them together, cut into 
neat squares, and dish either on ornamental paper or on a 
napkin. 

Anchovies are prepared as above for all kinds of liors 
cVoeuvres, for sauce, salad, canajyes, potting, orlies, and 
toast. 



Macaroni au Parmesan. 

Throw a quarter of a pound of macaroni broken into 
pieces an inch long into three pints of boiling water with 



204 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

a large pincli of salt. The saucepan should be large or 
the water will rise over when the macaroni boils fast, which 
it should do for twenty or twenty-five minutes. When 
done, strain the macaroni through a colander, put it back 
into the saucepan Avith an ounce of fresh butter, a small 
pinch of white pepper and salt if necessary, and shake it 
over the fire for a minute or two. Take the saucepan off 
the fire and stir into the macaroni two ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese. Serve immediately with crisp, dry 
toast cut in neat pieces. If not convenient to use Par- 
mesan, a mild, dry English or American cheese will 
answer very well. 



Plain Timbale of Macaroni. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of Naples macaroni with 
plenty of salt in the water for half-an-hour. When done, 
drain and let it cool. Well wet a plain half-pint mould 
or pudding-basin with butter, and line it with the boiled 
macaroni. Mince fine two ounces of any tender cold meat, 
veal is the best, chicken, rabbit, or game. Boil an onion 
in half-a-pint of milk until reduced to a gill, mix a table- 
spoonful of flour in a spoonful or two of cold milk, and stir 
into it, thicken over the fire, add a grate of nutmeg, and a 
pinch of chopped parsley. Take the sauce off the fire, 
stir in an ounce of butter and the yolk of an e^o- and add 



LITTLE DISHES. 205 

the minced meat, to which a little ham or bacon will be 
an improvement. Put this into the basin, fill it up with 
the remainder of the boiled macaroni, put on a cloth, and 
steam or gently simmer, without the water touching the 
timbale, for three-qiiarters-of-an-hour. When done turn it 
out, and serve with gravy. 



To make Stuffing. 

The two stuffings, or, as they are sometimes called, 
*' seasonings," in general use in England, are that which 
is used for veal, and, with certain modifications, for fish, 
poultry, game, and meat ; and sage and onion. Experience 
and a refined taste can alone supply a cook with rules for 
making the first. The quality of the ingredients varies 
much, and care is required both in the choice of them — 
and so to use that the flavour of one does not predominate 
over another. Freshly-gathered rninced parsley may 
always be largely employed in veal and similar stuffings, 
and is generally acceptable. The object of stuffing being 
to flavour and enrich other substances, it should never be 
mixed with flour or an insufficient quantity of fat. The 
following formula for veal and poultry stuffing is given as 
a model : — 

Mix four ounces of bread-crumbs with three ounces of 
chopped beef suet or fat bacon, a large pinch of salt, black 



2o6 E VER V DA V MEALS. 

pepper and nutmeg, a large teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, a pinch of sweet herbs, and a grate of lemon. 
Beat up an egg and use as much of it, about half should 
suffice for this quantity, as will make these ingredients 
into a smooth paste. For fish, omit the sweet herbs, and 
use a little essence of anchovy. For roasted hare or 
rabbit add a little port w^ine and use equal quantities of 
fat and crumbs. 

An excellent and delicate stuffing is made b y^ 1 oihng 
light bread in milk to a stiff paste and gradually working 
in the yolks of two eggs and two ounces of clarified suet 
or butter to half a pound of bread. Pounded fish, espe- 
cially anchovy, potted meat, game, or poultry, or any 
flavouring can then be added. S 

Sage and onion seasoning for ducks and geese, roasted 
ox-heart, &c., should be prepared as follows : — Peel the 
onions with a sharp knife, score each across in thin slices 
not quite to the bottom but so that the onion holds to- 
gether. Turn it and cut across the other way so that 
the onion will fall to pieces neatly and evenly minced» 
When all are done, put them in a stewpan with half an 
ounce of butter, half a teaspoonful of salt to half a pound, 
put on the lid, and let the onions stand at a low heat for 
half an hour, allowing them to soften without burning, and 
they must frequently be shaken until they are more than half 
cooked. Then mix with them half a teaspoonful of dried, or 
a whole spoonful of chopped, fresh sage, half a teasjDoonful 



LITTLE DISHES. 207 



of black pepper, and, if necessary, a little more salt. If 
the stuffing is required to be mild add an ounce of bread 
crumbs. 



Eich Gravy. 



Slice and fry four onions until a light brown, cut up a 
pound of gravy-beef into dice, fry it until brown ; put 
these, a pinch of dried mushroom, a bacon bone or bit of 
ham, and four peppercorns with a pint and a half of water 
into a stewpan, and boil gently for two hours; strain, 
take off all fat, and if the gi^avy is not rich enough boil 
it up in a clean stewpan without the lid until sufficiently 
reduced ; add salt if necessary. Gravy is often spoiled by 
adding raw flour as thickening. To avoid this melt an 
ounce of butter in a small frying-pan, stir fine flour in 
gradually until it becomes a thick paste, work it over the 
fire until it assumes a brown tinge, then mix as much of 
it as is required with a little boiling gravy, doing this by 
degrees in order to avoid lumps ; add the thickening to 
the whole quantity of gravy, boil up, and it is ready. 

It is a good plan to make thickening in this way for 
soups and gravies when at leisure, as it keeps some time, 
and if prepared in a hurry is generally badly done. 



:2o8 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Cauliflower au Parmesan. 

Break up a cauliflower into brandies, wasli, and boil 
Ihem in salted water until tender ; they must not be 
boiled too soft. When done, drain them, and dip each 
piece in dissolved butter, then in grated Parmesan cheese, 
flavoured to taste with dry mustard, pepper, and salt. 
Place the cauliflower neatly and close together on a tin 
dish, pour over it a little more dissolved butter, and bake 
in a quick oven for five minutes, and serve immediately. 



To cook Spinach. 

Spinach as generally cooked by boiling in water is de- 
prived of its flavour and fine dietetic qualities. There is 
BO difiiculty in cooking spinach according to this recipe, 
but care must be taken not to use too much salt. Wash 
and pick three or four pounds of spinach, thoroughly freeing 
it from grit, and observing that no stalks are left. Drain 
the spinach in a colander, and put it iato a large sauce- 
pan, with a teaspoonful of salt — observe, no water — set it 
over the fire, cover with the lid, shake occasionally until 
the juices begin to draw. When the liquid boils, take 
off the lid of the saucepan and stir the spinach now and 
then to prevent burning. When perfectly tender, drain 



LITTLE DISHES. 209 

and press the spinach in a sieve until dry, it can then be 
served plain or as follows : Put the spinach, after drain- 
ing, into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and a table- 
spoonful of cream or milk ; if more convenient the same 
•quantity of rich gravy may be substituted, stir over the 
fire until the vegetable becomes dry, make any nice little 
mould, not larger than an egg-cup, very hot, and press it 
full of spinach, turn it out and repeat the process, work- 
ing very quickly, and keeping the shapes hot as you do 
them, garnish the dish with these shapes, or, if prefen^ed, 
put the spinach into a vegetable pressor, and when turned 
out^ serve as a separate dish, or with eggs and toast. 



Spanish Onions. 

Boil the onions whole for half an hour in w^ater with 
plenty of salt. Drain, and return them to the stewpan 
with a small piece of butter or dripping and a little 
pepper and salt ; cover the pan as closely as possible to 
keep in the steam, and let the onions stew gently for two 
or three hours according to their size and quality. Baste 
them with their own liquor occasionally, and take care they 
do not cook so fast as to cause this to dry up and the 
onions get burnt. 



2IO EVERY DA V MEALS. 



Radishes. 

Choose small red and white turnip-radishes, and never 
eat them when stale. With a small brush kept on pur- 
pose for vegetables prepare each one in clean cold water,, 
cut the green tops away neatly, taking gi-eat care no grit 
is left on them, and trim the roots as equally as possible.. 
AMien all are done place them on a clean cloth, wrap them 
up, shake lightly, and then arrange in circles on a dish, 
which will look all the prettier for a light border of water- 
cress or small salad. 

Radishes are not often served hot, but when young and 
fresh they are very good boiled. Wash and trim them 
in the same manner as for salad, throw them into plenty 
of boiling water well salted, and boil until tender, they 
will p'obably take half an hour. Wlien done, drain, and 
send to table covered with butter sauce. 



Watercress. 

Wash, trim and pick the cress, drain it in a colander,, 
put it into a dry, clean cloth and gently shake it about 
until all moisture is absorbed. An-ange the cress in circles 
on a flat dish, and serve within an hour of preparing it,, 
as it will lose its crispness if left standing too long. 



LITTLE DISHES, 



Mint Sauce. 

AVe all know badly made mint sauce, which has a 
heavy deposit of coarse sugar, and requires to be stirred 
when served to each person. If made as follows, the 
flavour will be very fine, and the sugar will not sink to 
the bottom of the tureen : — 

Wash and chop very fine the leaves of fresh green 
mint, about a large tablespoonful, put it into the sauce 
tureen with a gill of water and allow it to stand one hour. 
Mix in by degrees four ounces of raw sugar, or as much 
as the Avater will dissolve, this done, add sufficient vine- 
gar to give the required sharpness, observing that mint 
sauce should not be too acid. 



Boiled Cheese. 

Put four tablespoonfuls of beer into a small saucepan, 
shred into it a quarter of a pound of good new cheese, and 
stir briskly over the fire until all is dissolved and it is on 
the point of boiling, then take it off instantly, for if the 
cheese is allowed to boil it will become tough. Have 
ready slices of toasted bread, spread the cheese on it, and 
serve as quickly as possible. 



p 2 



212 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Grated Cheese. 

• American or Cheshire cheese answers well for grating, 
and it is a useful way of using cheese which is cut low and 
not otherwise presentable. Take care the grater is dry 
and clean, and grate the cheese on to a butter or glass 
dish, which should be handed to each guest with butter. 
It is a good plan to have neatly-cut pieces of cheese rather 
less than an inch square, in the middle of the dish, so that 
any fancy in the matter may be gratified. These pieces, 
if not used, can be grated for the next day. 




PASTEY AND PUDDINGS. 







Puff Pastry. 

This recipe for puff pastry is not generally in use in 
private houses, but will be found to be simple and to 
take far less time and labour in rolling out than the 
old method. It is requisite to have the butter very firm 
and free from water, and those who wish to have very 
superior pastry will use Vienna flour, which is, however, 
expensive, and not to be had genuine in country towns. 
A great deal of flour called Vienna is really only good 
English flour, but the difference between the two is so 
great that when compared it is at once seen. True Vienna 
flour is almost as wdiite as corn-flour, very soft to the 
touch, and when boiled for sauce thickening quickly, of a 
delicate flavour. If you use ordinary flour take care that 
it is dry, and sift it through a fine sieve. 

Weigh your butter and flour in equal proportions, cut 
the butter into thin slices, take a little flour and roll it 
with a slice of the butter into flakes, proceed thus until 
all the butter and flour are rolled together ; ' gather the 
flakes into a heap and sprinkle them with water, about a 



2i6 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

gill and a half is required for a pound of paste. Make 
into a smooth paste with the hand, and then roll it out to 
the thickness of half-an-inch. If a pound of paste, divide 
it into four parts, flour the board and roll out each part 
as thin as a wafer, fold over four or ^NOi times, and use as> 
required. Bake as soon as possible. 

Excellent puff pastry may be made by using three- 
quarters of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, but for 
the finest kind equal quantities of these are requisite. 
Good firm lard may be substituted for the butter, and 
three-quarters of a pound of it to one pound of flour will 
make a rich paste. This method, if followed, even for 
household pastry made with dripping, will be found to 
answer better than any other. 



Short Crust. 

Put half-a-pound of butter into ten ounces of flour, mix 
a tablespoonful of castor sugar with it, and rub together. 
Beat up the yolk of an ^gg Avith two tablespoonfuls of 
cold water, or less if the butter is soft, make the paste 
very stiff, roll it out once, and use for tarts of fresh 
fruit, cherries, raspberry and currant, &c., and for cheese- 
cakes. 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 217 



Apple Tart. 

Divide the apples in quarters, take out the core, and 
pare them. Observe that apples are more quickly pared 
when cut in quarters than when whole. If the apples 
are of a moderate size, leave tbem in quarters, or at any 
rate in eight pieces, sliced apples are apt to be hardened 
by being baked with sugar. To a pound of good sharp 
apples, put six ounces of brown sugar and a gill of water, 
mix thoroughly together and put into a deep pie-dish. 
The crust is to be made of suet and must be eaten hot. 
If properly managed this crust will be as light as puff 
pastry made with butter, and is much cheaper and more 
digestible. 

Take a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, " kidney knob " 
is the most free from skin, and is also the hardest piece ;. 
shave it as fine as possible, weigh a quarter of a pound of 
the best flour and take a little of the suet, with about the 
same quantity of flour, and roll together into flakes, repeat 
this until all the suet and flour are rolled together. 
Gather it into a heap on the board, and moisten by 
degrees with half-a-gill of cold water. Roll the paste out 
to the thickness of half-an-inch, beat it for a minute in 
order that any little lumps may be broken up. Now roll 
the paste out imtil as thin as a wafer, aud then fold over 



2i8 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

to make it lame enouo^h to line the ecWs of the dish, and 
make tlie cover. Put two or three strips of the folded 
paste on the edges, then put on the coyer in the usual 
way, and bake the tart in a moderate oven for three- 
quarters of an hour, or until the juice boils, and the crust 
on the top is firm to the touch. 

For large families it is often diflScult to put fruit in 
proportion to the crust. In this case, if the apples are 
boiled in a stewpan with a little water over a slow fire for 
a short time, they will so reduce as to allow nearly double 
the quantity of uncooked apples to be put in the pie-dish. 
In all cases where apples are of a slow- cooking kind, this 
plan should be adopted, as it prevents the crust being 
kept too long in the oven. 

Currants and Cherries for tarts eat much richer if 
stewed before baking. Boil the fruit very gently until 
half cooked, then sweeten and put into the tart-dish. In 
the case of currant and raspberry tart, the currants only 
should be stewed, and the raspberries be added afterwards, 
as these last cook quickly. 

Greengages and Plums of all sorts should be lightly 
stewed Avith a little water for tarts. Put the plums when 
stewed into the tart -dish, add sugar to the juice, and 
boil for five minutes, pour over the plums just before 
putting on the crust. By this pl"an, the steam of the 
hot fruit will cause the crust to puff up and stand high 
in the middle. To ice fruit tarts, brush over with 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 219 

white of ^gg and sift sugar over before putting tliem in 
the oven. 



Apple Turnovers. 

Make a paste of lard or dripping in the same manner 
^s puff pastry, using four ounces of the fat to eight of 
Hour and a gill of water. Koll the paste out a quarter-of- 
an-inch thick, and cut it into squares of about four inches. 
In the centre of each square pile up baking-apples cut 
small, but not in slices, mixed with half their weight of 
moist sugar. Gather the edges of the paste together, 
press them and mark with a pastry-wheel, place on a 
floured baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven for 
lialf-an-hour. 



Baked Apple Dumplings. 

Shred a quarter of a pound of dripping, lard, or butter, 
^nd roll into half-a-pound of flour in the same manner as 
directed for puff pastry. Mix with a gill of cold water 
and roll the paste out to the thickness of the third of an 
inch, and divide it into square pieces large enough to 
•cover up your apples. Peel the apples, with a scoop take 
out the cores, put a small piece of paste in each at the 
Ijottom, and then fill up the cavity with moist sugar 



220 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

mixed with a little grated lemon-peel, or with a clove. 
Put an apple in the centre of one of the squares of paste^ 
which pinch together at the top and neatly press into- 
shape with the fingers. When all the dumplings are 
ready, put them in a greased pudding-tin and bake slowly 
for three-quarters of an hour, or rather more if the apples- 
are large. 

Boiled Apple Dumplings. 

Make a paste of flour and beef-suet in the proportion of 
four ounces of suet to five ounces of fiour and half-a-gill 
of cold water. Proceed as directed for baked apple^ 
dumpliDgs, and when they are ready drop them one by 
one into a large saucepan of boiling water, keeping them 
boiling rather fast for three-quarters of an hour, or longer 
if the apples are large. 



Cheesecakes. 

Line patty-pans with puff or short crust, fill them with 
any of the following pastes, and bake. To prepare curd 
for Yorkshire Cheesecakes, boil two quarts of milk, and 
as it rises pour in either half-a-pint of sour butter-milk or 
enough vinegar to turn it to curds. Draw the pan to the 
side of the fire, let it stand five minutes, then strain the 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 221 

curds through a sieve, mix them with three eggs to half- 
^-pint of curd, sweeten, add lemon-flavouring, a few 
<3urrants, and a spoonful or two of milk if the paste seems 
dry. 

For Lemon Paste, which, if properly prepared, will 
keep like jam, dissolve, but do not oil, half-a-pound of 
fresh butter, mix with it two pounds of sifted sugar, 
then the juice and grated peel of eight fine lemons, and 
stir over the fire until this has become liquid, then beat 
in twelve eggs lightly whisked. Place the stewpan over 
a slow fire and stir the paste rapidly and continuously for 
half-an-hour, or until it becomes very thick. Put up in 
small pots, and when cold cover closely to exclude the air. 
The above quantities will make about nine half-pound 
pots. If the paste is long over the fire, or if the eggs and 
lemons are small, some deduction from this quantity may 
be expected. 

Bath Cheesecakes. 

Let half-a-pint of milk boil, stir in two eggs lightly 
beaten, and boil together, stin-ing until a curd is formed, 
then mix in two ounces of gi^ed bread-crumbs, and very 
gradually add a quarter-of-a-pound of butter and a quarter- 
of-a-pound of sifted sugar beaten together to a cream. 
Beat up two eggs, mix them gradually and thoroughly 
with the other ingredients, then a quarter-of-a-pound of 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



currants, a tablespoonful of brandy, a teaspoonful of rose- 
water, and a very small pincli of grated nutmeg and 
powdered cinnamon. 



Cheap Cheesecakes. 

Dry lialf-a-pound of fine white flour, mix with it three- 
ounces of crushed sugar, beat a quarter-of-a-pound of 
butter to a cream, mix in the flour smoothly and by 
degTces, and work in the yolks of three eggs and the 
whites beaten to a strong froth. Flavour with lemon or- 
almond. 

After the cheesecakes are baked they may be brushed" 
over with ^^g, have a little fine sugar sifted on, and be- 
put in a moderate oven for a few minutes to dry the- 
icinof. 



Omelette au Confiture. 

Break three eggs into a basin, beat them with a small 
pinch of salt, a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, three table- 
spoonfuls of milk, and a fe\^rops of extract of vanilla, for 
four or five minutes. Ha^^p-eady in the omelet-pan an. 
ounce of fresh butter, when it is hot and beginning to get 
brown pour in the omelet mixture, hold the pan still over a 
moderate fire for half a minute, then, with a silver fork, keep- 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 223. 



stirring in the middle or at the edges. When the omelet 
is beginning to set over the whole surface, and it is taking 
colour on the under-side, shake the pan round and round 
and when finished, spread a tablespoonful of apricot 
preserve on it, shake the pan, hold it close to the dish, 
and slide half the omelet on to it. With a jerk turn over 
the other half, so that the omelet presents the appearance 
of an oval, golden-coloured cushion. Take care not to 
cook the omelet too much — it is proper to have it rather 
underdone, or lightly set, on the inner side. 

Omelette Souffle. 

Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with an ounce of 
sifted sugar and a few drops of any flavouring essence, 
beat the yolks and sugar together for six minutes, or until 
the mixture becomes thick. Then whip the whites very 
stiff, so that they will turn out of the basin like a jelly. 
Mix the yolks and whites lightly together, have ready an 
ounce of butter dissolved in the omelet-pan, pour in the 
eggs, hold the pan over a slow fire for two minutes, then 
put the frying-pan into a quick oven and bake until the 
omelet has risen. Four mi|||fcs ought to be sufficient to 
finish the omelet in the oven. When done slide it on to 
a warm dish, sift sugar over, and serve instantly. 



•24 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Souffle Pudding. 

This is a delicious pudding, and to insure its success 
great care and exactness are required. In the first place, 
to avoid failure, it is necessary that the butter, flour, 
sugar, and niilk should be stirred long enough over a 
moderate fire to make a stiff paste, because if this is thin 
the eggs ^^dll separate, and the pudding, when done, 
resemble a batter with froth on the top. 

Before beginning to make the pudding prepare a pint 
tin by buttering it inside, and fastening round it with 
string on the outside a buttered band of writing-paper, 
which will stand two inches above the tin and prevent the 
pudding running over as it rises. 

Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, stir in one 
ounce-and-a-half of Vienna flour, mix well together, add 
a gill of milk, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon 
until it boils and is thick. Take the stewpan off the fire, 
beat up the yolks of three eggs with half a teaspoonful of 
extract of vanilla, and stir a little at a time into the paste 
to insure both being thoroughly mixed together. Put a 
small pinch of salt to the ^^ffies of four eggs, whip them 
as stiff as possible, and stir lightly into the pudding, which 
pour immediately into the prepared mould. Have ready 
a saucepan with enough boiling water to reach a little 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS, 22: 



way up the tin, which is best placed od a trivet, so that 
the water cannot touch the paper band. Let the pudding 
steam very gently for twenty minutes, or until it is firm 
in the middle and will turn out. 

For sauce, boil two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam in a 
gill of water with two ounces of lump sugar, stir in a 
wineglassful of sherry, add a few drops of vanilla 
flavouring, pour over the pudding, and serve. 



Swiss Pudding. 

Mix a tablespoonful of corn-flour smooth in a gill of 
cold milk, boil half a pint of milk and stir both together 
over the fire until thick. Beat up two eggs, stir them 
into the corn-Hour after it is taken off the fire, sweeten, 
and add a little lemon or vanilla flavourinfr. Melt an 
ounce of butter in a Yorkshire pudding tin, large enough to 
make the pudding about half an inch thick, pour it in the 
tin, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, or until 
well set and a little brown. Spread a thin layer of jam 
over the pudding and then roll it, place it on a dish, and 
sift sugar over. 



226 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 



Castle Puddings. 

Beat three eggs, with a quarter of a pound of sifted 
sugar, for twenty minutes, or until the mixture becomes a 
thick batter. During the process of whipping, the basin 
containing the eggs and sugar should be placed in another 
containing hot w^ater, which should be renew^ed twice 
during the operation, so as to maintain the temperature of 
the egg-batter at not less than 90^. Flavour with grated 
lemon peel or lemon extract. Have ready three ounces- 
of fresh butter, dissolved, and the same temperature a& 
the eggs, mix them together, and, lastly, stir in lightly^ 
but thoroughly, a quarter of a pound of the best flour, 
sifted. Brush over little cups or tins with butter, about 
half fill them with the pudding mixture, and bake from 
fifteen to twenty minutes in a quick oven. For sauce, 
mix a dessertspoonful of French potato-flour in tw^o table- 
spoonfuls of cold water, stir it into a quarter of a pint of 
sheny made boihng hot, add the juice of a lemon, sweeten, 
thicken over the fire, and serve in a tureen. 



Cabinet Pudding. 

Butter very thickly a pint pudding basin, and cover it 
neatly with stoned Muscatel raisins, the outer side of 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 227 

them being kept to the butter. Lightly fill up the basin 
with alternate layers of sponge cake and ratafias, and 
when ready to steam the pudding, pour by degrees over 
the cakes a custard made of half a pint of boiling milk, 
two eggs, three lumps of sugar, a tablespoonful of brandy, 
and a little lemon flavouring. Cover the basin with a 
paper cap and steam or boil gently for three-quarters of 
an hour. Great care should be taken not to boil puddings 
of this class fast, as it renders them tough and flavourless. 
Make Brandy Sauce as follows : — Mix a tablespoonful 
of fine flour with a gill of cold water, put it into a gill of 
boiling water, and, having stiired over the fire until it is 
thick, add the yolk of an ^g^. Continue stirring for five 
minutes, and sweeten with t^vo ounces of castor sugar. 
Mix a wineglass of brandy with two tablespoonfuls of 
sherry, stir it into the sauce, and pour it round the 
pudding. If liked, a grate of nutmeg may be added to 
the sauce before the ^gg, and, if required to be rich, an 
ounce of butter can be stirred in before the brandy. 



Vanilla Rusk Pudding. 

Dissolve, but do not oil, an ounce of butter, mix in a 
quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, stir over the fire for a 
few minutes, add an ^gg well beaten and half a teaspoon- 
ful of vanilla extract, or as much as will give a good 

q2 



228 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

flavour to the paste, which continue stirring until it gets 
thick. Spread four slices of rusk with the vanilla paste, 
put them in a buttered tart dish. Boil half a pint of new 
milk, pour it on to an Qgg well beaten, then add it to the 
rusk, and put the pudding to bake in a slow oven for an 
hour. Turn out when done, and sift sugar over the 
pudding. If a superior pudding is desired, boil a table- 
spoonful of apricot jam in a teacupful of plain sugar 
syrup, add a little vanilla flavouring, and pour over the 
pudding at the moment of serving. 



Italian Fritters. 

Cut slices of very light bread half an inch thick, with 
a round paste cutter divide them into neat shapes all 
alike in size. Throw them into boiling fat and fry 
quickly of a rich golden brown, dry them on paper, place 
on a dish, and pour over orange or lemon syrup, or any 
kind of preserve made hot. 

Honey or golden syrup may be used for those who like 
them. 



Cocoa Nut Pudding. 

Choose a fine nut with the milk in it, grate it very fine, 
mix it with an equal weight of finely sifted sugar, half its 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 229 

weight of butter, the yolks of four eggs, and the milk of 
the nut. Let the butter be beaten to a cream, and when 
all the other ingredients are mixed with it, add the whites 
of the eggs whisked to a strong froth. Line a tart-dish 
with puff paste, put in the pudding mixture, and bake 
slowly for an hour. Butter a sheet of paper and cover 
the top of the pudding, as it should not get brown. 



Irish Oatmeal Sandwich. 

Put two ounces of butter or dripping into half a pound 
of oatmeal, mix with it a small teaspoonful of baking 
powder, stir in quickly a gill of warm milk, pour the 
mixture into a greased Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in 
a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour, or until 
done. Turn it on to a dish, fold over in the shape of a 
narrow but thick sandwich, and serve hot for breakfast. 

If liked, a little jam or marmalade can be inserted in 
the folds of the sandwich. 



Compote of Fruits. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice quite soft ; break it 
up into a paste, press it into a round mould about four 
inches in diameter, and to the thickness of two inches. 
When cold, turn it out of the mould, and place it in the 



230 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

centre of a glass dish. Boil the syrup of a tin of pre- 
served apricots with half a pound of lump sugar for a 
quarter of an hour ; put the apricots into the syrup, and 
let them simmer very gently for two minutes, taking great 
care not to break them or spoil their shape. Dissolve a 
small pot of red cuiTant jelly, and boil in it for five 
minutes two ounces of fine coloured glac^ cherries, the 
largest you can get. When done, drain the cherries and 
apricots, and let them cool. Place a row of apricots, in 
quarters, round the rice shape ; then fix in between each 
quarter another quarter, keeping each row of apricots 
narrower, and tending to a pyramid shape. When this is 
done, place between each quarter of apricots a cherry, and 
some shreds of angelica cut to represent leaves. Mix the 
syrup of apricots and cherries together, and, just before 
putting the compote on the table, pour it round the base. 



Compote of Prunes, 

Wash the fruit in warm water, put it on to boil in cold 
water in which lump sugar has been dissolved. To a 
pound of prunes put half a pound of sugar, a pint of 
water, with the thin rind and juice of a lemon. Let them 
simmer for an hour, or until so tender that they will mash 
wdien pressed. Strain the fruit and set it aside. Boil 
the syrup until it becomes very thick and is on the point 



PASTRY AND PUDDINGS. 



231 



of returning to sugar, then pour it over the prunes ; turn 
them about so that they become thoroughly coated, taking 
care not to break them, let them lie for twelve hours, 
then pile up on a glass dish for dessert. 




JELLIES, CEEAMS, ICES. 



Jellies. 



Very few cooks in these days make the gelatine for 
jellies of calves' feet, the process being both tedious and 
expensive. French leaf gelatine has of late been used, 
and is excellent ; but the difficulty is to have the strength 
always the same. Nelson's gelatine may be relied on 
for purity and uniformity of quality, and will produce a 
bright jelly without any peculiar flavour of its own. The 
directions given Avith this gelatine are good, but in 
practice it has been found some additional details are 
necessar}^ 

It is desirable, if possible, to soak the gelatine at least 
an hour, before using it, as it dissolves much more easily 
when this is done. Put one ounce of gelatine (Nelson's) 
to soak in half a pint of cold water, with the finely shred 
peel of two lemons. When it has soaked for an hour, 
put it into a stewpan with half a pint of boiling water, 
and stir over the fire until dissolved. Put half a pound 
of sugar, and when melted, add another half pint of 
liquid, which should include the juice of the two lemons 
and water only, if the jelly is to be plain lemon ; but if 



236 E VER V DA V MEALS. 

of wine, sherry, good Marsala, or raisin wine, instead of 
water. Wash the shells of two eggs, and beat them up 
with the wdiites, stir them briskly into the jelly, which 
place over the fire, and let it come very slowly to boiling 
point, then continue simmering for five minutes. Take a 
cup and put the white of eggs from the surface of the 
jelly, gently into the bag, as this acts as a filter, then put 
a cupful of the jelly in slowly, and let it run through, 
continuing this until all is used. It should now be clear ; 
but if it is not, keep warm that which has run through 
the bag, and once more pass it through. If the jelly is 
flavoured with wine, when all has lun through, add to it a 
winegiassful of brown brandy, as this will it give a rich, 
golden tint. If the weather is cold, the given quantity of 
gelatine will bear a little more liquid, and will be stiff 
enough to turn out. Moulds of tin or copper are best for 
jellies, because they require to be dipped in tepid water 
before turning out, and the thickness of earthenware 
moulds makes it difficult to determine when the warmth 
is sufficient or not too much. Have ready a bowl or 
bucket of water, in which you can dip the mould just in 
for a second, taking care the water is only tepid — that is 
to say — not more than 80°. Now wipe the mould, loosen 
the edges of the jelly, taking care not to break them, with 
the end of a teaspoon, reverse the mould gently on a 
glass dish, let it stand a minute, then take it off, and the 
jelly should be perfect in shape, and as clear as crystal. 



JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES. lyj 

To make a jelly ornamented with fruit, have some very 
clear lemon jelly, of which put in the mould enough to 
cover it, about an inch deep. Let this stand until begin- 
ning to set, arrange in it strawberries, grapes, cherries, 
or any other bright fruit you wish, then, very gently 
with a spoon, cover them with the jelly, cold, but not 
set. Let this again stand until beginning to set, put in 
more fruit, then jelly, and so on until the mould is 
.set. 

A pretty effect is produced b}^ the mixture of creams 
and jelly : it is managed in the same w^ay as the above, 
taking care to have each layer so nearly set, that the 
cream cannot run into the jelly. 

Great care should be taken in washing and keeping 
jelly bags in a suitable place, for if not scrupulously clean, 
they impart to jellies that peculiar flannel-like flavour, 
which destroys its delicacy. When done wdth, empty the 
bag of its refuse contents, turn it inside out, and at once 
put it into boiling water, which will clear it. Allow it to 
pass through two or three very hot waters, then squeeze 
it and when thoroughly dried — in the air if possible — 
wrap it in clean paper, and keep in a dry place. Before 
using, always wring the bag through boiling water, allow- 
ing it to get nearly dry before pouring the jelly through 
it. Kent's registered jelly strainer is an admirable inven- 
tion, keeping the jelly warm, and enabling it to run 
through without being placed near the fire. Any waste 



238 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

of the jelly is also avoided by its use, as well as risk of 
dust or other mishaps. 



Claret Jelly. 

Soak an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in half a pint of 
cold water, boil it until dissolved, add a bottle of good 
Tin ordinccire, a pot of red currant jelly, and three- 
quarters of a pound of sugar, stir over the fire until all 
dissolved. Beat the whites of three eggs and the shells,, 
stir them briskly into the jelly, let it continue boiling for 
two minutes, take it off the fire, and when it has stood 
for two minutes, pass it through the bag. The ^ellj 
should be perfectly clear, and of a fine red. 



Custard. 

The oreat art of makino^ a custard well lies in the- 
stirring, and wdien this is properly managed, a custard 
made with milk and the quantity of eggs given in this 
recipe, will be as rich as one made with cream and 
additional eggs. 

Boil a pint of milk, stir in two ounces of lump sugar^ 
or sufficient to make the custard sweet enough for the 
purpose required. Have ready the yolks of three eggs,, 
beaten up, pour the boiling milk on them. Put the 



JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES 239 

stewpan, containing the custard, over a slow fire, stir with 
a wooden spoon as briskly as possible for twenty minutes, 
or until thickening has commenced, then put the stew- 
pan on the coolest part of the range, so that it is im- 
possible the custard can simmer, let it stand for a quarter 
of an hour, stirring it occasionally. When the custard is 
ready, pour it into a basin, flavour it with vanilla, almond, 
lemon, or brandy. Should lemon be the desired flavour » 
the finely shredded peel of half a one should be boiled in 
the milk, and be allowed to remain in the custard until 
cold. Stir the custard occasionally until cool, which 
will prevent a skin forming on the top. 

This recipe is the ground-work for all creams made 
with custard, for ices, ice-puddings, &;c., &c., 

Whipped Cream. 

To half a pint of good cream put a tablespoonful of 
finely sifted sugar, and safiicient of any essence to give 
it a delicate flavour. With a whisk, or wire spoon, raise 
a froth on the cream, remove this as soon as it rises, put 
it on a fine hair, or, still better, lawn sieve, repeat this 
process until the cream is used up. Should the cream 
get thick in the whisking, add a very little cold water. 
Put the sieve containing the whisked cream on a basin, 
and let it stand for some hours, which will allow it to 
become more solid, and fit for such pui-poses as filling 



^4o E VER Y DAY MEALS. 

meringues. But, if the cream is not required to be 
,solid, it can be used as soon as whipped. The cream 
which drains from the whip can be used over again, or to 
make custard, &c., &c. 



Apricot Cream. 

Take a tin of preserved apricots, drain away the juice, 
^nd add an equal quantity of water, make a syrup by 
boiling with this half a pound of lump sugar. When it 
begins to get thick, put in the apricots and simmer 
gently for ten minutes. Drain away the syrup, and put 
both it and the apricots aside, separately, to use as 
directed. 

To make the cream, mix two tablespoonfuls of boiled 
flour in a quarter of a pint of cold milk, stir it into a 
c^uart of boiling milk, add the yolks of three eggs, beaten 
for a minute, sweeten with three ounces of sifted sugar, 
and stir over the fire for ten minutes, taking care it does 
not boil. Pour this custard into a basin, whisk it oc- 
casionally until nearly cold, then stir into it an ounce of 
gelatine, dissolved in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, 
and also nearly cold, taking care, thoroughly, to mix them 
together. 

Rinse a quart-mould with cold water, put in a tea- 
cupful of the cream, then a layer of the apricots, 
waiting a minute or two before putting in another cup of 



JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES. 241 



cream, then another layer of apricots, and so on until 
the mould is full. Let the cream stand twelve hours, or 
more, before turning it out, and when it is on its dish, 
pour round the syrup of apricots. 

If more convenient, the cream can be made without 
the boiled flour, but will not be so rich. 



Lady Jane's Orange Cream. 

Boil the thinly-shredded rind of four oranges with a pint 
of new milk, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, 
for ten minutes. Stir with this half an ounce of Nelson's 
gelatine, soaked, and dissolved, strain, and let the 
cream get cold. Then begin to whisk the cream, and 
as soon as it seems likely to set, add by degi'ees the 
juice of the oranges with that of one lemon mixed with 
them. Continue whisking the cream until it is a white 
and light froth and is beginning to set. Rinse a quart 
mould with cold water, drain, and put the cream into 
it. In four or five hours the cream can be turned 
out. This is a delicious and inexpensive cream ; equally 
good for invalids, and for ordinary use. 

If liked, orange syrup can be poured round the cream 
when turned out. The recipe page (288) will answer 
for it. 



242 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Rum Cream. 

Boil half-a-pint of milk or cream with two ounces of 
lump sugar and a bay-leaf, pour this on to the yolks of 
three eggs well beaten, stir over a slow fire until the 
custard is thick. Take out the bay leaf and let the 
custard stand, stirring it occasionally until nearly cold. 
Soak a quarter of an ounce of gelatine in a gill of cold 
water, and dissolve it by boiling, and let it stand until 
quite cool. Both the gelatine and custard being cool, 
stir them together until thoroughly mixed, add a small 
wine-glassful of mm, and put the cream into a mould, 
let it stand twelve hours before turning out. A syrup 
of capillaire flavoured with rum poured round the cream 
is an improvement. 



Ginger Cream. ^ 

Beat the yolks of four eggs, put them in a stew-pan 
wdtli a quarter of a pound of preserved ginger, cut into 
very thin slices. Add two tablespoonfuls of the ginger- 
syrup, one pint of milk or cream, and sugar to taste. 
Stir these ingi'edients over a slow fire for twenty minutes, 
or until the mixture begins to thicken, taking great care 
t does not boil. 



JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES, 243 

Let this stand until nearly cold, then add half an 
ounce of Nelson's gelatine, dissolved in a quarter of a 
pint of milk, and also nearly cold. Whisk the cream 
gently until it is beginning to set, put it into a mould 
and let it stand for four hours, or longer if convenient* 
Some persons think it an improvement to pour a little 
ginger syrup, mixed with half its bulk of brandy, round 
the cream when turned out. 



Charlotte Russe. 

The Charlotte Kusse is not necessarily expensive, but 
some little skill is required in arranging the cakes which 
form the case, so that it may turn out neat and compact. 
A plain mould is necessary, and the cakes must be of one 
size and shape, and not so stale as to be brittle. Line 
the mould first at the bottom and then at the sides with 
sponge finger biscuits, and set it on the ice. This case 
may then be filled with a cream, such as suggested for 
meringues, or with orange, lemon, or apricot cream. 
A rich puree of apricots, or strawberries, to which a 
little gelatine, and afterwards whipped cream, has been 
added, frozen, as for ice pudding, is excellent and appro- 
priate for this purpose. When the mould is filled with 
cream, immerse it in the ice, cover it with a baking 
sheet, on which place some ice. Let the Charlotte re- 



244 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 



main in the ice for an Lour, then turn it on to its dish 
and serve immediately. 

Meringues. 

Whip the whites of six eggs very firm, mix with them 
three quarters of a pound of the finest icing sugar. As 
<piickly as possible fill a tablespoon with the mixture, and 
put it on a strip of paper placed on a baking board ; 
repeat this working rapidly until all the meringues 
are made, then sift fine sugar over them, and put them 
without loss of time in the oven, the heat of which must 
only be sufficient to dry the meringues and give them a 
delicate brown tint. When the meringues are coloured 
and feel firm to the touch, take them off the papers, and 
Avith great care scoop out from the inside as much as you 
can without injuring the case. W^hen this is done, again 
place the meringues, the hollow side uppermost, on fresh 
strips of paper, and let them remain in the same mode- 
rate heat until perfectly crisp. When cold fill one 
case with whipped cream, place another over it, and 
if necessary to keep it in position use a very little white 
of Q^gg. The meringues can if desired be flavoured with 
vanilla, which must be added before commencing to whip 
the wdiites of ^gg ; thirty drops of extract of vanilla will 
probably be sufficient for this purpose. 

The meringues must not be filled with cream until just 



JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES. 245 

before serving, as of course the moisture may dissolve 
them. 

Meringues can be successfully made with a solution of 
gum dragon, and also with Efifner's dried whites of egg. 
To render gum dragon more easy to dissolve it should be 
soaked for an hour in lemon juice. 

A nice inexpensive cream for filling meringues may be 
made as follows : — Boil two ounces of sugar with a pint of 
milk and an ounce of Nelson's gelatine previously soaked, 
strain it, let it get cold, and flavour it with vanilla. When 
the cream appears likely to set add by degrees the juice 
of half a lemon, and whisk it until it becomes frothy and 
thick. Put it aside and use as required. 



246 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



EEMARKS OX MAKING ICES. 

The making of ices, like many other operations of the 
confectioner's art, is often rendered difficult by the neglect 
of the simple principles and precautions ■'.vhich, duly con- 
sidered, ensure success. Thus, if the ice for freezing is 
not properly broken, and then immediately and thoroughly 
mixed with a proper proportion of salt, the process cannot 
be successfully carried on. Again, when freezing by the 
ordinary means, if the temperature of the atmosi3here is 
much above 45'', the ice will melt too rapidly, requiring to 
be frequently renewed, thus entailing a great deal of 
trouble and expense. Although the making of ices can in 
experienced hands be successfully carried out by the old 
rude method, it will severely tax the powers of an ordi- 
nary cook, especially if she has many other things to 
engage her attention. A great economy both of time and 
material can be effected by the use of Kent's Horizontal 
Freezer. This machine is not expensive, and by its form 
obviates a great difficulty in making ices, namely, the 
tendency to freeze hard at the bottom of the pot, and thus 
prevent the thorough mixing of the ingredients. For its 
extreme simplicity and efficiency this machine is unri- 
.Talled, as by the mere turning of the handle, which could 



REMARKS ON MAKING ICES. 247 

be done by a child, two quarts or more of ices can be 
made in less than five minutes. " The Family Ice-Maker 
and Cream-Freezer," without the aid of ice, of the same 
patentees, is very valuable for public institutions and 
large families. The best way of preparing ice for any 
kind of freezer is to put it into a sack or bag of coarse 
material, lay it on the ground, and break it up small with 
a wooden mallet. This done, to each two pounds of ice 
add one pound of common salt, and mix them thoroughly 
and quickly together. To make ices without a machine put 
the rough ice in a pail, which should have a hole stopped 
with a cork near the bottom, in order that water may be 
drawn off as the ice melts. Set the freezing-pot in the 
centre of the ice, and keep turning quickly about till the 
cream or other material is set. Open the pot every three 
or four minutes, and with a spatula work the ices from the 
sides to the middle, mixing and stirring all well together. 
When the icing is completed, which may be known by 
trying with the thermometer, if they register 22° you will 
be certain of a satisfactory result. Then cover your pot 
with fresh ice and salt, protect it as well as you can by 
covering over with old carpet or sacks, and let it remain 
until wanted. 

The best kind of ice creams are made with cream, the 
juices of fresh fruits, sweetened, syrup or flavouring, and 
water ices of syrup, and water only. It may be taken as a 
general rule, that milk, cream, or custard, mixed with 



248 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



syrup or flavouring, can be converted into ices, and there 
is perhaps no branch of the confectioner's art in which so 
much variety or such novel effects can be produced. A 
little experience will teach the precise degree of sweetness 
for ices ; it must however be borne in mind that it is 
difficult to freeze if too much sugar is used, and that 
spirits must not be mixed with either cream or water ices. 
To give richness, and a greater degree of firmness to ices, 
some confectioners use a small quantity of gelatine. 

Care should be taken thoroughly to mix and to strain 
into the freezing-pot the material for icing, and also to 
cover it so closely that no salt can penetrate. 

Ice Creams. 

The base of all first-class ice creams is as follows : — In 
two quarts of good cream dissolve one pound of loaf sugar, 
flavour as desired, and freeze as before directed. The pro- 
duct, when fruit juice has been added in due proportion, 
should be three to three and a half quarts of rich firm ice 
cream, of the highest quality. 

Flavours. 

For Vanilla use one tablespoonful of good extract of 
vanilla. 

Lemon. — Use three teaspoonfuls each of extract of 
lemon and lemon -juice. 



REMARKS ON MAKING ICES. 249 

Macaroon add two small teacupfuls of powdered maca- 
roons, and one teaspoonful of extract of almond. 

Coffee. — Infuse four ounces of fine ground Mocha or 
Java coffee in a pint of boiling milk, stir the clear liquid 
into the cream and freeze. 

Fruit Ice Creams. — One quart of the fruit juice very 
finely strained, and one and a half pounds of fine white 
sugar added to the proportion of cream given above. 
Strawberry, raspberry, currant, pine-apple, orange, or any 
juicy fruit can be used, and when not in season the s^rrups 
will answer. French preserve of strawberry, with a little 
management, makes delicious ices. 



Water Ices. 

Boil three pounds of fine white sugar in two quarts of 
water to a syrup, add one quart of the juice of any of the 
above fruits. With strawberr}^ and orange water ices use 
the juice of a large lemon. 

Lemon Water Ice. — Shave the peel off the lemons you 
intend to use, and infuse it for two hours in two quarts 
of water, strain and use the water to make a syrup, with 
three pounds of sugar. Add sufficient lemon juice, usually 
about one pint, to make an agreeable acid. 

Cherry Water Ice. — Pound the cherries and their 
stones, extract the juice, and add a little almond flavouring 



250 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

or Noyeau to give the full flavour of the kernel Make a 
syrup as above. Always take care the materials for ices 
are thoroughly strained, and that all are well mixed before 
freezing. Water ices take longer to freeze than cream, 
and do not increase so much in bulk. 

Ice Pudding. 

Make a custard of a pint of milk and the yolks of three 
eggs, two ounces of sugar, flavour highly with vanilla, and 
ice it to 30°. Then mix with it thoroughly half a pint 
of whipped cream, and freeze again to 22°. Have ready two 
ounces of dried cherries and sliced pine apple, and two 
ounces of royal biscuits, put a layer of the ice cream in a 
mould which is placed in ice, then a layer of sweetmeat 
and biscuits, and so on until the mould is full, pressing 
down each layer. Place a buttered paper on the top, 
cover the mould closely, and imbed it in ice till wanted. 

Iced Coffee. 

Put a quarter of a pound of freshly roasted and ground 
coffee into the cafetiere, pour on to it slowly and by 
degrees a pint of boiling water. When this has all run 
into the lower pot take out the grounds, rinse out the 
percolator, and put in two more ounces of fresh coffee, 
boil up the infusion, and pour it gently over the fresh 



REMARKS ON MAKING ICES. 251 

coffee. When it has again run through mix it with a 
pint and a half of new milk and half a pint of cream 
which have been scalded, sweeten with sugar or S3a'up, 
and put half of the mixture into the freezing-pot, keeping 
the remainder in ice. When the coffee in the freezing- 
pot is lightly frozen, mix it with the other portion and 
stir together. The coffee should be served with the 
appearance of having snow in it. Portions of the coffee 
ice can be mixed with that which is liquid at the moment 
it is wanted, and the remainder kept ready for use in ice. 
Coffee made as directed can, if preferred, be lightly 
frozen, and so served, in chocolate cups or punch glasses. 



To Keep Ice. 

The moderate use of ice in hot weather is a great 
luxury, and is said to be conducive to health ; but persons 
who have not ice-safes or refrigerators are often debarred 
from its use, because they find it impossible to keep small 
quantities from day to day. Even so small a piece of 
ice as will weigh a pound may be kept for twenty-four 
hours in hot weather, with but little waste, if wrapped in 
newsjDaper and afterwards in plenty of woollen cloth — 
house-flannel answers well. The ice, thus wrapped, 
should then be put in a large pan or tub, be covered over 
with old carpet or blanket, and be kept out of a current 



252 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



of air. A portion of the ice caii be broken off as re- 
quired, and each time it is luiwrapped fresli dry paper 
and flannel should be used, and that Avhich is wet be 
dried for future use. Ice for the table is not wholesome 
unless perfectly clear, and after being broken should be 
rinsed in cold water. 




BREAD AND CAKES. 



Bread Making. 

Our daily bread is so common a thing that we accept it 
with almost as little inquiry as thankfulness. Some in- 
deed have not time to consider how important it is that 
bread, " the staff of life," should be pure and wholesome, 
but many more, from idleness or indifference, suffer their 
families to consume bread which they are well aware does 
not contain all the elements of nutrition, and which is 
made in an uncleanly manner. Many people, too, decline 
to acknowledge facts — declare they are overstated, and 
themselves worried by the perpetual outcry made about 
the articles of daily necessity. It is certain that a great 
many persons of this class do not wish to be enlightened, 
and would prefer to be left in all the bliss of their igno- 
rance rather than in any way exert themselves to provide 
pure bread for their families. It ought to be as easy to 
bake bread at home as it is to roast meat, yet in many 
families where the latter operation is successfully per- 
formed the difficulties in carrying out the former are said 
to be insuperable. 

Persons who are indisposed to make the effort to bake 



256 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 

their own bread, generally aver that the oven of their 
range is unsuitable for baking bread, that it has spoiled 
batch after batch. In almost every instance where the 
oven has been blamed to the writer it has been found, on 
going thoroughly into the matter, that due care had not 
been taken to rake out the ashes or cleanse the flues. 

Most of the ovens of ordinary kitchen ranges will bake 
a good-sized family loaf to perfection, and when they are 
pei-petually blamed it may be as well to remember that 
unskilful workmen generally complain of their tools. No 
doubt a brick oven is the proper thing, but then in towns 
it is only to be found in large establishments, and it is 
surely wise to make the best use of those within the reach 
of householders of all ranks. There is, besides, the alter- 
native of sending the bread to the baker's oven, but then 
it is generally necessary to buy both flour and yeast of 
him, or he will not think it worth while to do it. The 
cost of baking each loaf is one halfpenny, which includes 
taking the dough and bringing back the bread. As a 
rule, a respectable tradesman will not cheat, but it is easy 
to guard against imposition by weighing the dough before 
sending out. The loss by evaporation on twelve pounds 
should not exceed one pound, and is generally less. The 
difliculty of procuring genuine flour such as country bread 
is made of, is another stumbling-block to persons living in 
London and other large towns ; but, however much adul- 
terated, however inferior the raw material may be, it can 



BREAD AND CAKES. 257 

never rival the extraordinary composition which bakers 
dignify with the name of bread. Whether on the score of 
health, of cleanliness, or economy, it is impossible to urge 
too strongly the importance of making bread at home. 
Some persons, however, say that it is more expensive than 
buying it. With proper management it cannot be ; and, 
even supposing the cost of the home-baked loaf to be 
higher, it must be remembered that that of the baker 
will bear no comparison with it in point of quality. Good 
housekeepers do not need to be told that the best is the 
cheapest in the end. In point of fact it is found after 
making exact calculations, and allowing for the cost of 
extra fuel, that a loaf of home-baked bread in London 
costs about the same as one from the shop ; if, however, 
the flour is bought direct from the miller by the sack, 
and if brewer's yeast can be procured, it will cost less. 

As to the operation of bread-making itself, there need 
not be the slightest difficulty ; nor, indeed, if properly 
managed, is it at all laborious. Of course it makes all 
the diff'erence in the world if the process is clumsily car- 
ried out. If, for instance, the water required to make up 
seven pounds of flour be poured on the whole mass, consi- 
derable labour will be required to knead it, and, besides, 
the bread will spread, be flat, and an unsightly loaf will 
be turned out of the oven. But if the required quantity 
of water be mixed with five pounds of the flour, and then 
beaten up to a stiff batter, the remaining two pounds 



258 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

"being gradually worked in, a very successful result will 
be obtained with very little trouble or exertion of 
strength. 

It is hoped that the following practical directions will 
enable housekeepers who have but ordinary kitchen ap- 
pliances to place upon their tables, not onh^ the sweet 
household loaf, but some lighter kinds by way of variety, 
which may, when necessary, tempt a delicate appetite. 

Small and very simple machines are supplied by Kent 
for bread-making ; they save much labour, and ensure 
cleanliness, and more perfect kneading than by hand. 
Ball's revolving ovens for baking bread before the fire can 
be had of the same maker. 

Household Bread. 

The flour called "seconds" makes a more economical 
oaf for family use than the first quality ; when, however, 
a very white, light kind of bread is preferred, "best 
whites" must be used. 

German yeast should be perfectly fresh and sweet ; in 
which state it is nearly white, and quite dry. Dissolve 
one ounce and a half in a few spoonfuls of cold water, and 
then stir into it three pints of tepid water ; pour it rapidly 
over five pounds of flour, in which a tablespoonful of salt 
has been mixed ; beat it up with the hand or with a 
wooden spoon until well mixed, then gradually work iu 



BREAD AND CAKES. 259 

two pounds more of flour, kneading it well. A little more 
or less water may be required, according to the quality of 
the flour — good flour, as bakers say, takes the most 
''liquor." When finished, the dough will be perfectly 
smooth, and not a particle will adhere to the hands or pan. 
Set the dough in a warm place to rise for an hour, then 
work it up with a handful of flour until it is stiff ; divide 
it into two or three loaves, working tliem up into a com- 
pact shape. Put them on a floured baking-sheet, and 
bake them in an oven as hot as it can be without burning 
the bread, as it will then keep its shape. In about ten 
minutes the heat must be moderated and kept equal until 
the bread is finished. A five-pound loaf will take an hour 
and a quarter to bake. A skewer may be thrust into the 
loaf, and if it comes out clean, the bread is done enough, 
but generally the appearance of the loaf should indicate 
this to an3^one having the least experience. If the oven 
is not a very good one, the bread will be best baked in 
tins. The above quantity of Hour made as directed will 
yield over ten pounds of bread. If home-made or brewers' 
yeast is used, make the bread in the same manner as with 
German, but it must be allowed more than double the 
time to rise. About a quarter of a pint of brewer's yeast 
will be required for seven pounds of flour. If you can, 
get the yeast over night, pour away the beer or porter 
from the top, and cover the thick portion which remains 
^v^ith cold water. In the morning drain this off, and the 

s 2 



26o EVERY DAY MEALS. 

bitterness of the yeast will be reduced. A live coal put 
iato it has the same effect. 

Should the brewer's or home-made yeast be at all stale 
it is desirable to " set sponge" over night, or at any rate 
some hours before the bread is kneaded. Mix the yeast 
with half a pint of warm water, make a little well in the 
centre of the flour in the pan, and with the fingers de- 
tach a little flour, and stir it in lightly until a thick batter 
is formed, then sprinkle flour on the top, cover over the 
pan with a cloth, and leave it to rise in a temperature of 
80°. When ready to knead the bread, pour into the 
leaven the required quantity of tepid water slightly salted, 
and mix it gi'adually Avith the whole of the flour, working 
from the middle to the sides. It must be remembered 
that it is impossible to work the dough too much, and 
that when finished it should be very smooth, light, and 
dr3^ The oven should be very hot for the first five to ten 
minutes of baking the bread — about 570^ — and then it 
should be lowered to 430°, or a little less. Very few 
OA^ens in England being fitted with thermometers, it is 
necessary to ascertain the heat by sprinkling a little flour 
on a baking-sheet, if it brown within two minutes of put- 
ting it in the oven, the heat will be right for beginning 
to bake the bread. 

The addition of potatoes to bread in small quantities is 
generally approved, but not more than one pound should 
be used to seven pounds of flour. Wash, peel, and boil 



BREAD AND CAKES. 261 

the potatoes, and when they are soft enough, break them 
up in the water in which they were boiled, rub them 
through a sieve, and use them, liquid and all, mixed with 
the German yeast, or the leaven of brewer's yeast after it 
has risen. A little flour of maize or of Indian corn is 
nourishing, and excellent mixed with wh eaten flour, and 
the same may be said of the flour of rye, when it can be 
had fresh, and its flavour is not disliked. It is good, 
especially for the young, to have an occasional change in 
the kind of bread to which they are accustomed. 

The method of making brown bread with flour '' gi'ound 
all one way " is exactly the same as that given above. An 
excellent way of giving white flour the flavour of brown 
is to boil a pound of bran in a quart of water for half an 
hour ; strain it, and use instead of plain water for making 
the bread. A handful or two of bran may be mixed with 
white flour in making up ; it gives variety, and is consi- 
dered wholesome. 

Unfermented Bread. 

This may readily be made, either with Limmer's self- 
raising flour, or with baking powder. Bread thus made is 
not only perfectly wholesome, but by many persons found 
more digestible than when fermented, and may be eaten 
as soon as cold, without the inconvenience which often 
arises from new bread of other kinds. With Limmer's 



262 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



flour directions are given, wliicli, if closely followed, will 
ensure success. This flour lias the oreat advantao'e of 
being mixed with the chemical agents by machinery, 
thus attaining a more j)erfect result than is possible by 
the hands. Whenever baking powder is used with ordi- 
nary flour, great care must be taken thoroughly to incor- 
porate them, as, otherwise, little yellow spots appear in 
the bread, giving rise frequently to needless apprehen- 
sion of some unwholesome ingredients. The great secret 
of success in making unfermented bread lies in expedi- 
tious mixing, and in putting it the moment it is ready 
into a very hot oven. 

Care should be taken to ascertain that the oven is at a 
proper heat before mixing the bread ; the baking sheet 
should be floured and ready to hand, and not an instant 
lost in putting the loaves into the oven. Only a small 
quantity of unfermented bread should be mixed at one 
time. Two pounds are enough for one operation, and 
should be divided into three or four loaves. Half-an-hour 
will bake them. 

Limmer's flour, mixed with milk, or milk and water, in 
the proportions given on each packet, makes delicious 
breakfast bread. Cream that has slightly turned, mixed 
with water, is even better than milk. 

To MAKE Tea-Cakes with Baking-Poavder. — Mix 
three teaspoonfuls of powder with a pound of flour and 
two ounces of jDowdered loaf sugar. Rub in two ounces of 



BREAD AND CAKES. 263 

butter, and when ready to bake, make into dough with 
half-a-pint of skim milk with one egg well beaten and 
mixed with it. Brush over three pound cake-tins with 
butter, put the cakes into them, and bake in a quick oven 
for about half-an-hour. 

Baking Powder. 

One ounce of tartaric acid, two ounces of carbonate of 
soda, two ounces of corn-flour. Mix them thoroughly 
together, rub through a sieve, and put away for use in 
bottles closely corked. Two teaspoonfuls will be required 
to make a pound of flour into bread. 

Milk Bread. 

Mix a teaspoonful of salt with three pounds of flour. 
Dissolve one ounce of German yeast in a pint and a half 
of skimmed milk made lukewarm. Proceed exactly as 
for household bread. When ready for the oven, divide the 
dough into three loaves, set them on a well-floured baking 
sheet, and bake for an hour in a hot oven. When done, 
care should be taken not to put the loaves down flat, 
or the crust will be sodden with the steam. It is a good 
plan to have little stands to set bread on when taken from 
the oven. Any carpenter can make them for a few pence, 
as they are merely strips of wood nailed together in the 
form of the letter X. 



264 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



Yorkshire Breakfast Cakes. 

Melt two ounces of butter in a pint of milk ; mix in it 
an ounce of fresh German yeast, a good pinch of salt, and 
two eggs. Put two pounds of fine flour, and beat all well 
together. Let it rise for half-an-hour, knead, and put 
the dough into tins, allowing the cakes to rise well before 
baking them in a moderate oven. 

For Tea-Cakes, add two oimces more butter, and two 
ounces of sifted sugar. Let them rise rather longer, as 
they should be lighter than for breakfast, and bake in a 
quick oven. 



To make Yeast. 

Boil and mash one pound of potatoes, mix with them a 
quarter of a pound of coarse raw sugar and a teaspoonful 
of salt, add a quart of tepid water, and let the mixture 
stand in a warm place for twenty-four hours ; then boil a 
small handful of hops for ten minutes in half-a-pint of 
water, strain, and add the liquor to the yeast. Again let 
it stand for twenty-four hours ; if it does not then fer- 
ment, get a little brewer's yeast, and let it work for 
twenty-four hours ; then strain it and it is fit for use. 
WTien cold, put away the yeast in stone bottles, the corks 



BREAD AND CAKES. 265 

lied down firmly. Keep in a cool, dry place until wanted. 
About half-a-pint of this yeast will be required to ferment 
seven pounds of flour. 

Plain Bread Cake.' 

It is often convenient to make these of the same dough 
as the bread, which answers very w^ell if a little baking- 
powder is added. When the dough has risen ready for 
baking as bread, to each pound work in a quarter of a 
pound of butter, lard, or dripj)ing, the same weight of 
sugar, sultanas, currants, raisins, or shred candy-peel, and 
a little grated nutmeg and gi'ound cinnamon. Or, the cake 
may be flavoured with whole or ground carraways. The 
quantity of fruit given above is small; double this will 
not make any considerable appearance in a bread cake. 
When all these ingredients are well mixed add a tea- 
spoonful of home-made baking-powder, put the cake into 
a greased tin, and bake immediately. 

Buns. 

Put a pound of flour into a deep bowl and mix with it 
an ounce of German yeast dissolved in a pint of lukewarm 
milk ; let it stand in a warm place to rise. In half an 
hour knead in another pound of flour, and when the dough 
has risen well, and is very light, work into it a quarter of 



266 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

a pound of butter dissolved, but not oiled or hot, half a 
pound of sugar, a little grated nutmeg and ground cinna- 
mon, and half a pound of currants. Lastly, stir in lightly 
but thoroughly, a heaped teaspoonful of home-made 
baking-powder. Have ready a baking sheet well floured, 
shape the dough into balls and place them on it, 
leaving a little space between each. Brush the buns over 
with the yolk of an Q<g^ beaten with half a gill of milk 
and a spoonful of sugar, and bake immediately in a hut 
oven for fifteen minutes. 

To swell the currants, — after they are picked pour 
hoiltng water over them, and let them stand covered over 
with a plate for two minutes, drain away the water, throW 
the currants on to a cloth to dry them, and do not use 
until they are cooL 

Or, after being picked and washed, whilst damp 
sprinkle a little flour over, and put them in a cool 
oven, turning them about occasionally. Sultanas are to 
be prepared in the same Avay for cakes. There is a 
slight loss of flavour from using the boiling water, but 
on the whole it is a good way of swelling the fruit. 



Crisp Oatmeal Cakes. 

Kub half-a-pound of dripping or lard into half-a-pound 
of oatmeal into which you have mixed a large pinch of 
carbonate of soda and of salt. Make into a dough with a 



BREAD AND CAKES. 267 

gill of cold water, shake meal plentifully on the boards 
turn your dough on to it, and having sprinkled this also- 
with meal, work it with the backs of your fingers as little 
as possible. Roll the dough out to the thickness of a 
crown-piece, cut in shapes — the lid of a saucepan or a 
glass answers very well for this purpse, — put the cakes on 
a hot stove, and, when a little brown on the under side,, 
take them off and place on a hanger before the fire in 
order to bro^vn the upper side ; this done, the cakes will 
be ready for use. If to be kept, put away the cakes in a 
tin box in a dry place, and when required for table put 
them in the oven for five minutes to warm them through, 
and re- crisp them. 

Wafer Oat Cakes. 

Pour a gill of boiling water on to half-a-pound of oat- 
meal into which a large pinch of salt has been mixed, 
make it into a dough, turn it on to a board well covered 
with meal, work very slightly, roll it out as thin as 
possible, cut into shapes, and bake as in foregoing recipe. 

Scotch Potato Scones, 

Rub one pound of cold boiled potatoes through a sieve,, 
put them on the baking-board, and scatter over them 



268 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



seven ounces of flour. Work first with the rolling-pin 
into a paste, then a little with the hand until smooth. 
Strew flour heavily on the board and over the paste, 
which roll out about the thickness of half-a-crown and cut 
it into shapes. Lay the scones on a hot stove ; when a 
little brown on one side, turn and finish on the other. 
Serve hot in a folded napkin. 



Scotch Soda Scones. 

Put into a basin one pound of flour, one teaspoonful of 
carbonate of soda, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and 
a large pinch of salt. Mix these ingredients well toge- 
ther, then pour in half-a-pint of butter-milk, or sour milk, 
and make them into a paste. Turn it out on to a baking- 
board thickly covered with flour, work a little with 
the hand to make it smooth, then dust the paste well 
with flour and roll out to the thickness of a quarter-of-an- 
inch, cut the paste into shapes, wliich lay on a hot stove, 
and as soon as a little done on one side turn on the other, 
and bake until the raised parts are slightly brown. When 
the scones are done serve, or, if required cold, place them 
in a cloth, which will soften them, and let them lie 
until wanted. 

In Scotland scones and oat -cakes are baked on a girdle, 
but as this is not used in England, the hot-plate 



BREAD AND CAKES. 269 

must be substituted, and will be found to answer very 
well. 



Madeira Cakes. 

Beat three eggs for two minutes, add the grated rind 
of a small lemon, then pour on to them six ounces of 
lump sugar dissolved in a stewpan with half-a-gill of 
water. This syrup should be added to the eggs at boiling 
point. Put the bowl containing the eggs and sugar into a 
larger one containing boiling water, the object being to 
maintain the temperature of the batter during the whole 
process at not less than 90'', and in order to do this, the 
water in the outer bowl must be changed twice or thrice 
during the fifteen or twenty minutes required for whisk- 
ing the cake batter. Beat the eggs and sugar together 
until a very thick batter is formed. To know if it is 
sufficiently thick, let the batter stand for half-a-minute. 
If when you again whisk it you find there has been no 
settling of the eggs, you may proceed to add five ounces 
of fine dry flour slightly warmed ; sift it in and mix lightly 
and thoroughly. Dissolve three ounces of fresh butter in 
a stewpan : do this slowly, for the butter must not be 
oiled, and though liquid enough to pour out, must present 
the appearance of cream. Put the butter to the cake- 
batter by degrees, beating in each portion thoroughly 
before adding more. Have ready a tin cake-mould lined 



270 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

Avith a round at the bottom and a paper band, buttered 
Jind sifted witb sugar. Pour the cake gently into the 
mould, leaving it about half full, and bake for fifteen 
minutes in an oven hot, but not hot enough to brown the 
outside of the cake. At the end of fifteen minutes the 
cake will have risen well, draAv it to the mouth of the 
oven, sift sugar over the top, and place on it handsome 
slices of citron peel. This last operation of sifting sugar 
over is necessary to give the coating proper to light cakes 
of this kind. Shut the oven door and let the cake finish 
baking ; it ought to be done in from thirty to thirty-five 
minutes from the time it is put in the oven. When 
done, take out of the tin and place upon a sieve or wire 
stand until cold. 



Rich Plum or Bride Cake. 

One pound of butter beaten to a cream with a pound of 
sifted sugar, then twelve eggs beaten in two at a time, 
and when all are in, and the batter whisked for three- 
quarters of an hour, stir in gradually and thoroughly one 
pound of dried and sifted flour, then add a pound-and-a- 
half of currants and the same quantity of raisins, both 
chopped, a quarter of a pound of bitter almonds pounded, 
half-a-pound of candy peel minced very fine, the grated 
rind of an oransfe and a lemon, and a gill of brandy. If 



BREAD AND CAKES, 271 



there is any suspicion that the cake will not be light, a 
teaspoonful of home-made baking-powder should be mixed 
in the moment before putting the cake into the tin, but 
this addition is not legitimate, and should be avoided if 
possible, as it is apt to make the cake diy. Pour the cake 
into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake for two 
hours, or until perfectly done. 

Rich plum cakes may, if preferred, be made by the 
method for Madeira cakes, by altering the projDortions, 
and increasing the quantities of flour and butter to those 
ji^iven above. 

Savoy Sponge Cake. 

Beat half-a-pound of finely-sifted sugar with the yolks 
of four eggs until you have a thick batter, then stir in 
lightly six ounces of fine dry and sifted flour, then the 
whites of the eggs beaten to a ver}^ strong froth. Have 
ready a tin which has been lightly buttered, and then 
covered with as much sifted sugar as will adhere to it. 
Pour in the cake mixture, taking care the tin is not more 
than half full, and bake for half-an-hour. 



Lemon Savoy Sponge. 

Kub lumps of sugar on the peel of two lemons so as to 
get all the flavour from them, dissolve the sugar in half-a- 



272 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

teacupful of boiling water, and add it with the juice of the 
lemons to the eggs, beat for twenty minutes, and finish as 
directed for the plain Savoy sponge cake. 



Swiss Roll. 

Make the cake either as directed for Savoy cake, or 
[Madeira cake. Butter a Yorkshire pudding tin, sift over 
as much very fine castor sugar as will lie on it, and having 
shaken off all that is loose, pour in gently enough of the 
cake mixture to less than half fill the tin. Bake in a 
good oven; at the expiration of ten minutes from the 
time the cake was put in the oven draw it to the mouth, 
sift very fine sugar over the top, using all possible expe- 
dition, close the door, and bake for five minutes longer, or 
until the cake is done. Turn it out on to a clean sheet 
of paper, the sugared side downwards, on which spread a 
thin layer of any kind of preserve, and roll up the cake. 

If preferred, the cake can be cut into rounds, and jam 
spread between each layer. 



Caraway Lunch Cake. 

Break three eggs into a bowl, which place in anotlier 
containing boiling water, whisk with them a quarter-of-a- 
pound ©f castor sugar for fifteen minutes, or until they 



BREAD AND CAKES. 273 

become very thick. Keep this batter at an equal tem- 
perature by adding boiling water to that in the outer 
bowl. When the batter is thick, .dissolve two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, taking care that it is not oiled, and 
stir slowly together. Then sift and mix gradually seven 
ounces of flour, and half-a-teaspoonful of caraway seeds 
carefully picked and cleaned. When ready to bake, mix 
in lightly and thoroughly a small teaspoonful of home- 
made baking-powder, put the cake into a buttered tin, 
and bake for half-an-hour. 

Cocoa Nut Cakes. 

Grate two ounces of cocoa-nut, mix it with a quarter of 
a pound of finely-sifted sugar, and the whites of three 
eggs beaten to a very strong froth. This will make a 
stiff paste ; but if the eggs are large it may be a little 
moist, in which case add a teaspoonful of corn flour. Put 
sheets of wafer paper on a baking tin, drop small pieces 
of the cake mixture on to it, keeping them in a rocky 
shape, and put them in a slow oven for ten minutes, or 
until they are done. 

Cocoa Nut Eock. 

Weigh half a pound of freshly-gi^ated cocoa-nut, add it 
to half a pound of loaf sugar, boiled in a gill of the milk 



274 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

of the cocoa-nut until it is beginning to return again to 
solid sugar, add the white of an ^gg well whisked, and 
mix thoroughly together. Spread the mixture, not more 
than an inch thick, in a greased pudding tin, and place 
in a cool oven, with the door open, to dry. Cut it in neat 
squares and put away when cold in a dry place. 

Macaroons. 

Blanch forty sweet and twenty bitter almonds. Pound 
them in a mortar, adding half a pound of the finest sifted 
loaf sugar as you go on, taking care the almonds are re- 
duced to a smooth paste. Whisk the white of one large 
Qgg to a stiff froth, and mix it Avith the sugar and 
almonds. Flour a baking-tin, and lay on it sheets of 
wafer paper, which can be bought at the confectioner's, 
and drop at equal distances a small piece of the paste. 
Bake in a moderate oven for ten minutes, or until the mac- 
aroons are crisp and the requisite colour. This quantity 
of material will make twenty macaroons of the ordinary 
size. When done cut round the wafer paper with a knife, 
and put the cakes on a sieve to dry. 

Amandines. 

Blanch and pound to a very smooth, light paste three 
ounces of bitter almonds with a little rose water. Beat 



BREAD AND CAKES. 275 



three quarters of a pound of sugar to a cream with half a 
pound of butter, then gradually w©rk in the almond 
paste, then the flour, and having well beaten this, add 
the whites of twelve eggs beaten to a very strong frotli. 
Bake about half an hour in small tins, as for castle pud- 
dings, turn out when done, and ornament some with 
minced pistachio-kernels, others with cochineal sugar, or 
they may be iced. These cakes can be made when the 
yolks of the eggs have been used for creams or custards. 

Bice Cakes. 

Beat a quarter of a pound of butter to a cream, mix 
with it a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, the grated 
rind of a lemon, or any spice or flavouring prefeiTed, and 
thoroughly beat together with the whole of one ^^^ and 
the white of another ; sift in gradually two ounces of 
ground rice and six ounces of flour previously mixed to- 
gether, stir in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, put in 
the buttered tins with bands of paper round, and bake 
immediately in a quick oven. This is a cheap and good 
cake, and very easily managed. 

Rock Cakes. 

Hub a quarter of a pound of butter or clarified drip- 
ping into one pound of flour, mix in a quarter of a pound 

T 2 



276 EVERY DAY MEALS. 



of raw sugar, half a pound of currants or sultanas, and 
one ounce of candy peel chopped as finely as possible, or, 
instead of the candy peel, a little grated lemon peel and a 
pinch of baking powder. Beat two eggs for a minute, 
mix them with the other ingredients ; the paste, in order 
that the cakes may present a rocky shape, must be very 
stiff ; if it is at all moist, the cakes will be flat. If, how- 
ever, the two eggs are not sufficient to moisten the ma.ss, 
add a very little milk or another Qgg as required. Flour 
a large baking-sheet, with 3'our fingers put little pieces 
of the cake at equal distances, taking care to drop them 
on lightly, so that they will keep the rock shape. 

Ginger Nuts. 

Rub two ounces of butter into half a pound of flour, 
mix with this four teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, a 
quarter of a pound of raw sugar, and a large pinch of 
carbonate of soda. Work altogether with two table- 
spoonfuls of treacle into a stiff paste, pinch off little 
pieces, and, having floured your hands, roll into balls, 
flattening each in the middle with your thumb. Place 
the nuts, with a little space between each, on a floured 
baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about 
fifteen minutes. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 277 



Plain Biscuits. 

Break lightly half a pound of fresh butter into two 
pounds of flour, add a salt-spoonful of salt and work 
into a stiff paste with half a pint of skim milk or cold 
water. Knead this well on the board with the hand, 
roll out into a large thick sheet, and beat it very well on 
both sides with a rolling pin. With a round cutter divide 
it into thick cakes, beat each a little till about the thick- 
ness of a captain's biscuit, prick with a fork, place on a 
well-floured baking sheet, put into a slow oven, and bake 
a light brown. 



To Ice Cakes. 

Beat up the white of two large eggs with the juice of 
half a lemon, weigh a pound of the finest sifted sugar, sold 
at the grocer's under the name of "icing" or "confectioner's" 
sugar, and beat it up a little at a time until all is mixed 
with the Qgg, and the icing is very white and thick enough 
to lie on the cake without running. When this point is 
reached put a large spoonful of the icing on the centre of the 
cake, or two or three spoonfuls if the cake is large, dip a 
table knife in boiling water, and with it spread the icing 
over the whole of the top of the cake, taking care to have 



278 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

it perfectly smooth. It will be necessary to dip tlie knife 
occasionally in the boiling water, taking care to drain it 
before using for the icing. Having finished the top of the 
cake, put a lump of icing on the side and smooth round 
with the knife. The process of icing will be conveniently 
managed by placing the cake on an inverted plate, on which 
it can then be placed in an oven with the door open to 
harden it. Confectioners put a small piece of stone blue 
dissolved with the icing, and this prevents it turning 
brown in keeping. 

To Ornament a Cake for christening or any special 
purpose, with a needle or pencil write the name or motto 
in the centre, and make roimd the edge a bold running 
pattern. 

Make a paper funnel, with the point just large enough 
to admit of a fine piping being forced through it. Put a 
little of the icing into the funnel, and gently pressing 
near the point cover the letters with the piping. If the 
cake is large three or four paper funnels may be required 
as they get soft after a time. Use the best writing-paper 
to make the funnels, and stitch them to make them keep 
their shape. Tin funnels with canvas bags can be bought 
for cake icing, and are made in various sizes. To colour the 
icing use cochineal, which can be bought ready prepared 
or made according to our recipe. 



BREAD AND CAKES. 279 



Almond Icing. 

Blanch half-a-pound of sweet almonds and an ounce of 
bitter, pound them in a mortar, adding a little rose-water 
as you go on to prevent oiling, and when all the almonds 
are reduced to a very smooth paste mix them with an 
equal weight of finely-sifted sugar. If the paste seems 
too dry, add a little white of ^^g, spread the almond paste 
on the cake, and allow it to become dry and firm before 
putting on the sugar-icing. 

Almond icing can be made from bitter almonds which 
have been infused in spirit to make the extract for 
flavouring, and in this case no sweet almonds will be 
used. Almond paste can be made in a superior manner 
in Kent's Combination Mincer, by using the adjustment 
for potting meat, &c. A little potato or corn flour will be 
needed with the almonds for this method ; sugar should 
not be used until the pounding is completed. 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 



French Preserves. 

The ordinary method of making jam in England has 
the merit cff being rapid and tolerably certain ; that, how- 
•ever, in use in France is far better for the small fruits, as 
it preserves their colour and flavour in a higher degree, 
besides keeping them -whole. In the first place it is 
necessary to choose the sugar of superfine quality, and to 
have it broken in large lumps, the crystals being de- 
stroyed Avhen it is crushed. In the next a proper pre- 
serving-kettle of untinned copper should be used, and 
above all the fruit must be of the finest quality, fresh and 
unbroken. 

Strawberries and cherries are very delicious preserved 
by the following recipes : — 

Strawberries. 



To each pound of the finest lump sugar put half-a-pint 
of water, or if preferred the juice of fresh red currants, let 
this boil, carefully skimming all the time, until it begins 



284 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

to get thick, and has the appearance of returning to 
sugar. Now very carefully put in to each pound of sugar 
one pound of fine fresh-picked strawberries, and let them 
boil gently for about a quarter of an hour, or until the 
fruit appears to be done. Pour the preserve into a basin, 
takino' care not to break the finiit, and allow it to stand 
until the next day, when carefully drain all the juice from 
the strawberries. Put the juice into the preserving-kettle 
and let it boil until it will jelly, skimming it as before, 
then put in the strawberries, and boil them very gently 
from five to ten minutes, taking care to keep them un- 
broken. Put the preserve into small glasses or pots, let 
them stand uncovered for a week ; if at the end of that 
time it does not appear to be satisfactorily made, the last 
process must be repeated. 



Cherries. 

ChoQse fine large cooking cherries of a brilliant red, 
fully ripe, but not of a sweet kind, stone the fruit, and 
make a syrup of currant-juice, and proceed as directed^for 
strawben'ies. 



PRESERVES AAD USEFUL RECIPES. 285 



Raspberry and Currant Jelly. 

Put a quart of raspberries into a pint of currant-juice, 
let them boil slowly together until the raspberries are 
broken up, then strain the fruit through a sieve. Return 
the juice to the preserving-kettle, and to each pint allow 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Boil gently, skim- 
ming as required, for half an hour, or until the jelly wdll 
■set. If a very sweet jelly is desired, rather more sugar 
can be used. 



Conserve of Plums. 

This recipe will answer for any kind of plum, but should 
the fruit be unusually acid, a little more than the given 
quantity of sugar should be used. 

Skin and stone the fruit, which put in the preserving- 
kettle with a few spoonfuls of water to prevent burning 
before the juice draws, stir it well about, and boil until 
the fruit is thoroughly broken up, then rub it through a 
sieve to a fine pulp. Measure this, and to a pint allow 
twelve ounces of lump sugar, boil together, stirring con- 
stantly until the conserve is so thick that it breaks when 
dropped from a spoon. The kernels of the fruit should be 



EVERY DAY MEALS. 



blanched and added ten minutes before the conserve is- 
finished. 

Pears and apples, together or separately, make excellent 
and useful conserve by the above method. No water will 
be required for pears, but for apples, nnless of a juicy kind^ 
about a gill of water should be used. 



Orange Marmalade. 

A gTeat fault of home-made marmalade is that the peel 
is generally hard. This defect is easily remedied by boil- 
ing the peel thoroughly before slicing. From three to 
four hours will be required, and it must be remembered 
that as the peel will harden somewhat when added to the- 
sugar, it can hardly be too much done in the first process^ 
Little if any advantage is gained by picking out the pulp 
of the orange, and much time is saved by expressing the 
juice instead, afterwards washing the fruit in order to lose 
none of the goodness. 

Choose Seville oranges of a moderate size with fine 
smooth dark skins. Score the peel in quarters down ta 
the fruit, remove it with as much of the white as will 
come without drawing the juice of the orange, throwing^ 
the quarters of peel as you do them into cold wat6i\ Put 
the peel into the preserving-kettle with fresh cold water 
to cover it, change the water three times during the boil- 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 287 

ing, and when the peel is tender enough to crumble when 
pressed between the fingers, drain it as dry as possible. 
Lay two or three of the quarters of peel together on a 
board, and with a sharp knife cut them into very thin 
shreds. Squeeze the oranges, and to eveiy dozen add the 
juice of four lemons. Wash the fruit after squeezing, and 
use the liquor thus obtained to make the synip. Weigh 
the shred peel and the juice, and to every pound (a pint of 
juice to be calculated as a pound) allow a pound and a 
half of lump sugar. To this quantity of sugar allow a 
pint and a half of the water in which the fruit has been 
washed after straining it, boil together, taking off the 
scum as it rises, for a quarter of an hour, or longer if the 
quantity is large. Add the juice of the fruit, and continue 
boiling until the syrup begins to thicken, still skimming, 
put in the peel and boil for twenty minutes longer, or 
until the marmalade will jelly. 

A dozen oranges made by the above recij)e will give 
twelve pound pots, the average cost being about fivej^ence 
per pot. Marmalade can be bought at a trifling additional 
cost, but even that of the best makers is inferior in flavour 
and quality to that made at home with reasonable care. 
A small machine for cutting orange-peel has lately been 
patented by Kent, High Holborn, and will be found useful 
where a large quantity of marmalade is required. 



•88 EVERY DA V MEALS. 



Seville Orange Jelly. 

Lay the peel of six Seville oranges — it must be shred 
very fine — in a quart of water for twenty-four hours ; 
strain out the peel, and boil the water with three pounds 
of sugar for twenty minutes ; then add the juice of 
eighteen Seville oranges, or of as many as will make a 
pint of juice. Boil gently until the jelly will set, when 
pour it into small pots and keep closely covered. This 
jelly is excellent for invalids, and also for making a 
summer and slightly tonic drink. 

Lemon jelly is made in exactly the same manner as 
orange jelly ; but 'eight lemons, or rather more if small, 
will be required to the quart of water. In making both 
orange and lemon jelly the size and quality of the fruit 
must be considered ; and if a strong flavour or bitter is 
objected to, less of the peel can be used. 

S-yrup of Sweet Oranges. 

Cut the peel very thinly from a dozen fine sweet and two 
Seville oranges, as you pare throw the peel into a pint 
and a half of cold water. When all is done, boil the peel 
in this water for a quarter of an hour, strain it, and having 
returned the water to the kettle, put two pounds and a 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 289 

half of sugar. Let this boil gently for half an hour, 
removing the scum as it rises, squeeze and wash the 
oranges in Avater, making the whole quantity of juice thus 
produced not less than a pint and a half, strain and add 
this to the boiled sugar, let it boil gently for three- 
quarters of an hour, removing all scum. When done, the 
syrup should be as thick as honey. It is useful for making 
summer drinks, and as a sauce for creams and puddings. 

Mushroom Ketchup. 

The larger and fresher mushrooms are for making 
ketchup the better. Break them well up, and to each 
seven pounds use half a pound of salt, mixing well together. 
Let the mushrooms stand until the next day, when 
drain away all the liquor you can, add a little more salt, 
stir well with the mushrooms, and let them stand another 
day. Now press out all the juice and boil it slowly for 
an hour with a quarter of a pound of salt, a dozen cloves, 
and half an ounce of peppercorns and whole ginger to 
each half gallon. Put the liquor into a pan, and, when 
cold, strain it through a very fine sieve, bottling the clear 
liquid in clean quart bottles, and putting a dozen pepper- 
corns and a dessertspoonful of brandy into each. Use new 
corks, and, having well-fitted, cut them down to the top 
of the necks of the bottles and seal them over so as to 
exclude the air. 



290 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

Should the juice of the mushrooms not run freely after 
standing the second day, put them into a cool oven in pans, 
covered over, and let them remain for five or six hours, 
then finish the ketchup as directed. 

The remains of the mushrooms should be put into a 
hot oven and dried, or in a V, or American oven, before the 
fire. It is well to put them for several days, after they 
appear dry, into the oven for a short time. Store in tin 
boxes in a dry place, and use in the same way as dried 
mushrooms. 

Dried Mushrooms. 

Let the mushrooms be perfectly fresh, remove the 
stalks, lay them skin-side downwards on baking sheets, 
and put them into a hot oven, so that they may shrivel up 
quickly, but not get burned. They must not be left long 
in the oven at one time, but be put in every day until they 
resemble little pieces of leather. Store the mushrooms in 
tin boxes, taking care to keep them where they cannot be 
attacked by insects, and use for flavouring gravy, soups, 
&c. Soak the required quantity of mushroom in four 
times its bulk of water, let it stand for at least an hour 
before adding it to the gi'avy. 

Should the mushrooms be large and juicy it may be 
necessary to scrape out the insides, which can be used to 
make mushroom juice in the same manner as ketchup. 



PRESERVES AND USEEUL RECIPES. 291 



To Cure Hams. 

To each ten pounds of meat allow one pound of 
common salt, one ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay 
salt, one ounce of black pepper, quarter of a pound of 
coarse sugar, half a pound of treacle. Rub the salt well 
into the meat, takmg care that it is well covered at 
the shank bone. Let the ham lie in the salt for a week, 
turning and rubbing it every day, but always leaving it in 
the pickle rind-side downwards. At the end of the week 
add the remainder of the ingredients to the pickle, the 
saltpetre and bay salt being pounded. Let the ham stay 
in the pickle a fortnight longer, then drain and hang it up 
to diy near the kitchen range, and in about a month's time 
put it in a paper bag, thoroughly secured so that flies 
cannot get at the meat. For those who approve of it 
half a clove of garlic to the ham pickle is an excellent 
addition. 

This pickle will answer for curing tongues after it has 
been used for the hams, and also for chaps, or for pigs'- 
heads intended for making brawn. 

To Preserve Eggs to keep for Twelve Months. 

Put two lumps of unslacked lime, about the size of 
ypur hand, into an earthenware pan. Pour on by degrees 
two gallons of boiling water. Soon after you begin to 

u 2 



292 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

pour the water on to the lime, the latter will make a 
slight explosive noise ; stand aside until it is quiet, and by 
degrees add the remainder of the water. Let the lime- 
water stand until the next day, stir it up with a stick, drop 
the eggs in one by one gently, and cover the pan over 
either with its own lid or a piece of board. The eggs should 
be put into the lime within four days of being laid, and 
can be added as you get them until the pan is full. If too 
many eggs are put into one pan, those at the bottom will 
probably get embedded in the lime and be difficult to get 
out. It is a good plan, gently to stir up the lime with the 
hand occasionally (there is no fear of hurting the skin), as 
this prevents the eggs at the bottom getting embedded. 
Take care that the shells of the eggs are perfect ; and if 
the liquid in the pan evaporates, add, from time to time, 
a little cold water so that the eggs are always covered. 
Eggs thus preserved will be found perfectly fresh at the 
end of a year, or even a longer period. 

To Pickle Ked Cabbage. 

Choose the cabbage of a deep red colour, take off the 
outer leaves and cut the heart into strips. Put a layer of 
the cabbage into a sieve, sprinkle it with salt, then 
another layer of cabbage and of salt until all is used ; 
when it has stood twenty -four hours squeeze and put it 
into a jar. If convenient add a beetroot sliced ; it may be 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 293 

used raw, but is better if baked or boiled. For a large 
cabbage, boil an ounce of whole ginger crushed, an ounce 
of black peppercorns, and half an ounce of allspice in a 
pint of vinegar for ten minutes. Mix this with the 
cabbage and fill up the jar with vinegar. Let this stand 
for a day, then fasten down and keep as air-tight as 
possible. 

Lemon Pickle. 

Grate the peel lightly from a dozen lemons ; let them 
remain in salt and water for nine days, rubbing them with 
fresh salt every day. When taken out wipe them with a 
cloth, then j)ut them in a stewpan, with three pints of 
vinegar, two ounces of mixed spice, and half an ounce of 
turmeric. Let the lemons boil in the pickle for fifteen 
minutes, put them in a jar, pour the pickle over, and when 
cold tie down Avith a bladder. The peel which has been 
grated from the lemons should be mixed with double its 
weight of sifted sugar, and will be useful for flavouring 
puddings. It should be kept in a bottle closely corked, 
or the grated peel may be dried quickly on the hot plate 
and be put away in a bottle for future use. 

To Eipen and Keep a Stilton Cheese. 

If the family is small it is best to divide the cheese and 
use half at a time. Butter a paper and tie over the top of 



294 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

the cheese ; mix equal quantities of ordinary Bordeaux 
wine and good beer, half a gill of each will be sufficient ; 
dip a napkin in this and wring it out leaving it rather 
moist. Wrap tightly round the cheese, which keep in the 
wine cellar; repeat this process every week until the 
cheese is taken into use, when it will be found of a very 
fine flavour, rich, and moist. 



Cochineal Colouring. 

Put a pint of cold water into an untinned copper stewpan 
with a jDint of cold water and boil until dissolved, then put 
in half an ounce of cochineal and an ounce of salts of 
wormwood crushed fine in a mortar ; let it boil for ten 
minutes, then stir in one ounce of cream of tartar using a 
wooden spoon, and, lastly, add half an ounce of Roche alum. 
When dissolved, pass the colouring through a flannel bag. 
Allow it to stand until cold, when put away in small bottles 
closely corked. The colouring should be very bright, clear, 
and free from sediment, as otherwise it will not keep 
well. 

Raisin Wine. 

Good raisin wine cannot be made cheaply, and it is 
somewhat troublesome to make, as it must be run off into 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 295 

a fresh cask after it has stood six months, in order to fine 
it, — indeed, it is sometimes necessary to repeat the racking 
several times. 

To each gallon of water allow eight pounds of raisins ; 
chop them up — if stoned this maybe effected in a mincing 
machine — put them into a tub with tepid water, and stir 
tlioroughly every day for a month. Then strain the liquor 
through a sieve, pressing the fruit, and put it into the 
cask. If the weather is warm the liquor will probably 
ferment in a few days, but if it does not, put a toast soaked 
in yeast on a gallon of the liquor made lukewarm, and 
which, when fermentation has well advanced, add to the 
whole quantity in the cask. Do not put in the bung for 
ten days, and having done so, allow the wine to stand for 
six months, then draw it off into a clean- cask, and allow it 
to stand for two months. At the expiration of this time, 
if the wine is tolerably clear it may be left for another six 
months with a bag of isinglass attached to the bung ; but 
if thick must be again racked into a clean cask. This 
Avine will not be fit to drink in less than a year, and will 
be all the better if allowed to remain in cask for a longer 
period. Brandy may be added in any quantity desired ; 
but if the wine has been well made it ousrht not to be 

o 

necessary. 

Smyrna raisins are the best for wine-making, but are 
generally too expensive when fresli. Grocers in a large 
way of business, however, are often glad to dispose of old 



296 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 



stock, and for wine-making, will put in good sound fruit 
at a moderate price. Raisin wine may be made of less 
fruit than the quantity given, but will not be so strong or 
good, or keep so well. 

Orange Wine. 

Take eighty Seville oranges, pare them as thin as pos- 
sible, pour one gallon of boiling water on the peel, and let 
it remain foiiy-eight hours. Pare off all the white part 
from the oranges and throw it away, squeeze out all the 
juice and add it to the peel, wash the remains and the 
pips of the oranges after squeezing in order to have all the 
goodness of them. Put all the liquid with the peel and 
juice with thirty pounds of good loaf sugar and sufficient 
cold water to make the whole quantity ten gallons, into a 
brandy or rum cask. Stir up thoroughly every day for a 
week, then put a toast well dipped in good brewer's yeast 
into the bung-hole. If fennentation does not commence 
within three days, put another spoonful of yeast. A hissing 
sound denotes the commencement of fermentation, in a 
fortnight after this put the bung in the cask, and let the 
wine remain for twelve months before bottlino. 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 297 



Cowslip Wine. 

To ten gallons of water allow thirty-five pounds of lump 
sugar. Boil the sugar and water for half-an-hour, with a 
handful of balm, of borage, and sweet briar. When cool, 
take these out, and put the liquor into a cask, with the 
juice and thinly pared rind of twenty-four lemons, tAvelve 
oranges, and three gallons of fresh, or two gallons of dried 
cowslip pips. Stir up the wine every day for a week, then 
put a toast dipped in yeast, and allow it to ferment for a 
week ; add a quart of brandy, stop the cask closely, and 
allow it to stand for two months, Avhen it should be bottled 
for use. If rather more sugar is used, and the fermenta- 
tion allowed to continue for a fortnight, it will be unne- 
cessary to use brandy. This wine is much improved by 
the addition of balm, borage, and sweetbrier ; but if they 
are used, it can only be made during the summer months. 
This wine is greatly esteemed by cottagers, and it is a 
good employment for little children to gather the cowslips, 
which, if thoroughly dried and properly stored, can be 
kept for use when required. 



Ginger Wine. 

To every gallon of water allow three pounds and a half 
of loaf sugar, two ounces of ginger, the j'jdce and peel of 



298 E VER Y DAY MEALS. 



three lemons, and one orange. Peel the orange and lemons 
very tliin, pour a gallon of boiling water on them, and 
break ujd the fruit. Crush the ginger, and tie it loosely 
in a muslin bag ; boil it with the sugar for a quarter of 
an hour in a portion of the whole quantity of water to be 
used. Mix the boiled sugar, ginger, peel, and fruit 
together, and put them into the cask, and then add the 
remainder of the water. Stir this up, and when tepid, put 
in a toast dipped in yeast. In ten days' time put the 
bung in the barrel, and let the wine remain for at least 
four months before bottling it. The colour of the wine 
will be improved by adding a little burnt sugar, and a 
bottle of gin or brandy may be put to it a month before 
bottling. It is a good plan to have a zinc or wooden tap 
in the cask, so that the wine may be tested from time to 
time. If it appears cloudy, tie some isinglass — two 
ounces to ten gallons — in a muslin bag, attach it by a 
.string to the bung, and let it remain a month in the wine. 
♦Strength and flavour are imparted to ginger wine by 
adding raisins, half-a-pound to a gallon of water is suffi- 
cient. Split open, but do not stone the fruit, and put 
them into the cask with the ginger. This wine is excel- 
lent made on the lees of cowslip wine ; and in this case it 
will not be necessary to use so many oranges and lemons. 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 299 



Grape Champagne. 

For nine gallons of tliis wine use thirty-six pounds of 
half-ripe grapes, one-third of which should be black. 
Pour six and a half gallons of soft water upon them, bruise 
and stir frequently for three or four days. Strain the 
liquor from the grapes, and dissolve twenty-eight pounds 
of loaf sugar in it, then put it in the cask with a little 
yeast, and let it work for about a fortnight. When the 
singing has subsided add a bottle of brandy, and put in 
the bung of the cask. In six months it will be fit to 
bottle, and can be used in three months afterwards. 



Gooseberry Champagne. 

For this wine the Warrington gooseberry is the best at 
the time when it is on the point of turning colour. When 
well made it is difficult to distinguish this wine from 
foreign champagne. 

The fruit must be thoroughly broken up with a wooden 
mallet, a pint of water being used to each pound of fruit 
to facilitate the operation. Let the fruit stand to ferment 
in a warm place for three days, stirring it frequently with 
a wooden spoon. Press the liquor through a sieve, using 
a little water to get all the goodness from the fruit. To 



300 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

each gallon of the liquor thus obtained put six pounds of 
lump sugar and one gallon of cold water, put into a cask, 
and do not stop it for a month. At the expiration of this 
time put in two quarts of gin or brandy to ten gallons' of 
wine, two ounces of isinoiass tied in a muslin bao' and sus- 
pended from the bung. Let it stand for six months, when 
bottle it, tying down the corks securely. 



Red Currant Wine. 

Pick fine ripe currants from the stalks, put them into a 
large pan, and bruise them with a wooden mallet. Let 
them stand to ferment for twenty-four hours, then strain 
the liquor through a hair sieve, and to each gallon of it 
put two of water and six pounds of loaf sugar. This wine 
should ferment without yeast, and if the quantity of sugar 
given is used brandy will not be required. Do not put in 
the bung of the barrel until fermentation has ceased. 



Elderberry Wine. 

Pick the elderberries from the stalk, taking care they 
are full ripe, put them into a stone jar, and keep them in 
a cool oven until the juice is well drawn. Then strain the 
juice through a coarse cloth (squeezing the berries), and 
boil it with a pound and a half of lump sugar to a quart 



PRESERVES AXD USEFUL RECIPES. 301 

of juice, skimming it uiitil clear and tine. Put a quart of 
this syrup to a gallon of tepid water, ferment it in the 
€ask with yeast, and do not stop it until the singing has 
ceased. It is a good plan to make this wine on the lees 
of raisin wine ; the syrup, if well made, will keep until 
required for use in this way. Half an ounce of cloves and 
the same quantity of whole ginger can, if approved, be 
boiled in a little water and be added to the wine with the 
syrup. If it is desired to have a very rich strong wine 
use rather less water than the quantity given. 

Claret Cup. 

Cut three thick slices of cucumber into a bottle of claret 
poured into a large jug, add a sprig of balm and of borage, 
a pint bottle of Seltzer water, one to two ounces of sifted 
sugar or crushed sugar candy, and half a wineglassful of 
brandy or CuraQoa. Stir well together, place the jug, 
covered over, upon ice for an hour, strain out the herbs 
and cucumber, pour into a decanter and serve. 

If there is not time to ice the cup, break up half a 
pound of clear ice into very small pieces, stir into the 
claret, and use less Seltzer water. 

Badminton Cup is made with Burgundy, with an equal 
quantity of Seltzer water, and the addition of the juice 
and peel of an orange to the ingredients given for claret 
cup. 



302 EVERY DAY MEALS. 

Champagne Cup has an equal quantity of wine and 
Seltzer water, an ounce of crushed sugar candy, the juice- 
and peel of two oranges, balm, and borage. 

Cider Cup has a pint of soda water to a quart of cider, 
a wineglass of brandy, and the other ingredients as for 
Champagne cup. 

Ginger Beer. 

Crush two ounces of ginger, peel two lemons very thinly 
and squeeze the juice, put into a pan with one pound and 
a lialf of loaf sugar, and two ounces of cream of tartar. 
Pour on to this two gallons of boiling water, and when 
nearly cold put a tablespoonful of brewer's yeast, and let 
the beer stand until the next day. Strain and bottle it 
quite clear, tying the corks securely ; this will be fit for 
immediate use. 

Gingerade. 

This can be made without fermentation, and is a whole- 
some drink for children. 

Crusli a quarter of a pound of Jamaica ginger and boil it. 
in two quarts of water for an hour. Strain the liquorthrough 
a jelly-bag, and boil it to a sp-up with three pounds of 
lump sugar, skimming in order to have it clear. When 
cold stir in an ounce of citric acid, and bottle the syrup. 



PRESERVES AND USEFUL RECIPES. 303 

When required for use put two tablespoonfuls in a tum- 
bler, and stir on to it half-a-pint of cold water, in which 
rather less than half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda has 
been mixed. 

Lemonade. 

Shred the peel of a fine lemon and let it lie for half an 
hour in a quart of cold filtered water ; then squeeze and 
strain the juice of the lemon, and having taken out the 
peel, put it and lump sugar to taste in the water ; stir well 
together and if required to be drank in a state of efferves- 
cence, add half a teaspoonful of citric acid, and at the 

moment of serving a small teaspoonful of carbonate of 

soda, or of bi-carbonate of potash. 




INDEX 



APP 

APPLE Charlotte, 96 
— Dumplings, baked, 219 
boiled, 220 

— sauce, 90 

— tart, 217 

— turnovers, 219 
Almond icing, 289 
Amandines, 274 



B^ 



and liver, 87 

— boiled, 31 

— broiled, 49 
Baked soles, 42 
Baking powder, 263 
Bath polonies, 172 
Batter pudding, 99 
Beans, Haricot, 78 
Beatrice pudding, 93 
Beef, grenadines of, 13. 

— hashed, 134 

— potted, 45 

— pressed, 179 

— rissolettes, 92 

— sausages, 171 



BEE 

Beef, spiced, 34 

— stewed shin of, 70 
Biscuits, plain, 277 
Bloaters, 55 
Boiled bacon, 31 

— eggs, 33 

— leg of mutton, 73 

— oatmeal pudding, 102 

— potatoes, 84 

— salmon, 112 
Brandy Sauce, 227 
Bra^vn, 39 

— - mock, 183 

— Yorkshire, 183 

— and tongues au Gratin, 161 
Brains, sheep's, 160 

Brain fritters, 162 

— or sweetbread cutlets, 163 
Breakfasts, 29 

Bread cakes, plain, 264 

— fried, 97 

— household, 258 

— making, 255 

— milk, 263 

— pudding, 85 



3o6 



INDEX. 



BRE 

Breftd .soup, 86 

— unfennented, 261 
Bride cakes, 270 
Broiled bacon, 49 
Brill, 113 

— chicken le^p, 46 

— cliicken, 32 

— frask liaddock, 121 

— kidneys, 51 

— mackerel, 44 
Broth, mutton, 8S 
Buns, 264 

riABBAGE soup, 94 
\J — to pickle, 292 
Cabinet pudding, 226 
Cakes a Tltalienne, meat, 3G 

— breakfast, 264 

— caraway lunch, 272 

— cocoa-nut, 273 

— crisp oatmeal, 266 

— :Madeira, 269 

— plain bread, 264 

— rice, 275 

— rich plum, or bride, 270 

— Savoy sponge, 271 

— lemon sponge, 271 

— Swiss roll, 272 

— rock, 275 

— to ice, 277 

— to ornament, 278 

— tea, 264 

— water oat, 267 

Calf's liver ii la Brochette, 151 
Caper sauce, 74 
Caraway lunch cake, 272 
Castle jiudding, 226 
Cauliflower au Parmesan, 208 
Champagne, grape, 299 

— gooseberry, 299 



CEE 

Charlotte Eusse, 243 
Cheese, boiled, 211 

— grated, 212 

— to keep Stilton, 293 
Cheesecakes, 220 

— Bath, 221 
Cheesecakes, cheap, 222 
Cherries, 283 
Chicken, broiled, 32 

— fried, 156 

— legs, broiled, 46 

— minced, with ^gg^ 157 

— pie, 174 

— roast, with watercress, 153 

— Saut^, 156 
Chips, potato, 35 
Chocolate, 62 
Chops, 143 
Claret cup, 301 
Cochineal colouring, 294 
Cocoa, 61 

— nut cakes, 273 

— nut pudding, 228 

— nut rock, 273 

— pudding, 72 
Cod fish, boiled, 113 

fried, 118 

rechauffe, 118 

Cod's roe, hard, il9 
Coffee, 58 

— iced, 250 
Collared eels, 126 
Collops, mutton, 53 
Compote of fruits, 229 

prunes, 230 

Conserve of plums, 285 
Cow heel, 136 
Cowslip wine, 297 
Cream apricot, 240 

— ginger, 242 



INDEX. 



307- 



CEE 

Cream ice, 248 

— Lady Jane's orange, 241 

— rum, 242 

— whipped, 239 
Croquettes, 184 

— of salmon, 185 

— of savoury rice, 186 
Currant wine, 300 
Curried eggs, 192 
Cm-ries, 190 

— dry, 192 

— rice for, 193 
Custard, 238 
Cutlets, egg, 52 

DEVILLED cMcken legs, 46 
dried mackerel, 121 
Dumplings, apple, 219 

— suet, 83 

ECONOMICAL cookery, 3 
Eels, coUared, 126 ^ 
Egg balls, 199 

— cutlets, 51 
Eggs and bacon, 197 

— au Bernais, 36 

— boiled, 33 

— en Surtout, 199 

— bard in gravy, 198 

— savourj', 45 

— scalloped, 56 

— sur le plat, 47 

— to presei-ve, 291 
Elderberry wine, 300 

FLAVOURS, 248 
Fish pie, 101 

— on frying, 106 
Eondu, 48 

Eorceraeat balLs, 200 
Fried bread, 97 



ICE 

j Fried bread cases, 189 
I — chicken, 156 

— codfish, 118 

— Haricot beans, 78 

— mushrooms, 54 

— rabbit, 158 

— smelts, 112 

— sole, 107 
Fritters, brain, 162 

— Italian, 228 
Frittura Piccata, 150 
Fruit compote, 229 

GALANTINE, 180 
— white, 181 
Game pastry, 177 
Ginger beer, 302 

— nuts, 276 , 

— wine, 297 

■ Gingerade, 302 

: Goose pie, 176 

! Gooseberry champagne, 299 

i Grape champagne, 299 

i Grenadines of beef, 133 

i 

HADDOCK, 120 
— broiled, fresh, ] 21 
I — dried, 122 
I Hams, to cure, 291 
1 Haricot beans, 78 
I Hashed beef, 134 
j Heart, stewed, 98 
j Hemngs, kippered, 120 
j —baked, 121 
j — soused, 40 
' — with mustard sauce, 72 

[CE cream, 248 
— coffee, 249 
— macaroon, 249 



3o8 



INDEX. 



ICE 

Ice fruit, 249 

— lemon, 248 

— vanilla, 248 

— pudding, 250 

— to keep, 251 
Iced coffee, 250 
Ices, 246 

— water, 249 

— lemon, 249 

— cherry- water, 249 
Icing, almond, 279 

Irish oatmeal sandwich, 229 
•— stew, 80 
Italian fritters, 228 

— macaroni, 95 

JAM pudding, 81 
Jellies, 235 
Jelly, claret, 238 

— Seville orange, 288 

— raspberry and currant, 285 

KIDNEYS ?i la Brochette, 163 
— broiled, 51 

— sautes, 29 

— toasted, 164 

— with mushrooms, 165 
Kippered herrings, 120 

— salmon, 121 
Kromeskie.^, 187 

LAMB, shoulder of, stuffed, 147 
— stewed leg of, 148 

— sweetbreads, 159 
Lemon pickle, 293 
Lemonade, 303 
Lentil, or pea-soup, 99 
Lirer and bacon, 87 
Lobster cutlets, 128 

— en Beignets, 129 

— rolls, 197 



MUT 

Lobster sauce, 130 

— scalloped,, 129 

MACARONI, 274 
— au Parmesan, 208 

— Italian, 95 

— plain timbale of, 204 
Mackerel, broiled, 44 

— dried, 121 
~ rolled, 30 
]\[adeira cakes, 269 
Marmalade, orange, 286 
Marrow toast, 38 
Mashed parsnips, 97 
Meat cakes a I'ltalienne, 36 
Meat, minced, 140 

— puddings, 137 
Meringues, 244 
Minced meat, 1 40 
Mint sauce, 211 
Mushroom, baked, 166 

— dried, 290 

— fried, 54 

— ketchup, 289 
Mushrooms, pui^e of, 166 

— ■with cream sauce, 166 
Mutton, boiled leg of, 73 

— broth, 88 

— coll ops, 53 

— cutlets, 143 

— hashed, 145 

— pastry, 94 

— pies, 33 

— potted, 147 

— rissolettes, 92 

— roasted leg of, 65 

— roulades, 38 

— saute, 146 

— shoulder of, boned and stuffed, 

141 



INDEX. 



309 



OAT 

OATMEAL cakes, crisp, 266 
— xionidgp, 200 

— pudding, boiled, 102 

— sandwich, 229 
Omelette aux fines herbes, 43 

— au confiture, 222 

— souffle, 223 
Onions, Spanish, 209 
Orange jelly, 288 

— marmalade, 286 

— syrup, 288 

— wine, 296 

Ox cheek, pressed, 55 
Oyster patties, 196 

— trifles, 126 

PANCAKES, 79 
Parsnips, mashed, 97 
Pasty, mutton, 94 
Pate de foies gras, 178 
Pea, or lentil soup, 99 
Pickled cabbage, 292 

— lemon, 293 
Pie, chicken, 174 

— fish, 101 

— goose, 176 

— mutton, 33 

— pigeon, 176 

— pork, 41 

— rabbit, 175 

— rump steak, 173 

— stewed sliin of beef, 70 

— veal and ham, 174 
Pigeon pie, 176 
Pigeons, 159 

Pigs feet a la St. Menehould, 52 
Plum cakes, 270 
Plums, conserve of, 285 
Polenta, 201 
Polonies, 172 



HAD 
Pork pie, raised, 41 
Pork, roast, 89 
Porridge, oatmeal, 200 

— Indian maize flour, 201 
Potato chips, 35 

— isnow, 54 

— boiled, 84 

— browned, 68 
Potted beef, 45 

— salmon, 50 
Preserves, Frenoli, 283 
Pressed beef, 179 

— ox cheek, 55 
Prunes, compote of, 230 
Pudding, batter, 99 

— Beatrice, 93 

— boiled oatmeal, 102 

— bread, 85 

— cabinet, 226 

— castle, 226 

— cocoa, 72 

— cocoa-nut, 228 

— Irish, 81 

— Jam, 81 

— meat, 137 

— rice, 69 

— Semolina "Bottasso," 75 

— souffle, 224 

— Swiss, 225 

— treacle, 87 

— Vanilla rusk, 227 

— Warwickshire, 90 

— Yorkshire, 67 
Puflf pastry, 215 



RABBIT, fried, 158 
— pie, 175 

with mushrooms, 158 

Radishes, 211 



INDEX. 



RAI 

Kaised pork pie, 41 

Ivaisin Avine, 204 

Haspberry and currant jelly, 2S5 

Rechauffes, 138 

Rich cakes, 275 

Risotto a la Milanese, 150 

Rissolettes of beef or mutton, 92 

Roast pork, 89 

Roasted chicken, 153 

— leg of mutton, 65 
Rock cakes, 275 
Rolled mackerel, 30 

— beef, 180 

— tongue, 37 
Roulades de Bceuf, 133 

— of mutton, 38 
Rump steak, 76 

SALAD, salmon, 117 
— Dressing, 117 
Salmon, boiled, 110 

— croquettes, 185 

— mayonnaise of, 115 

— potted, 50 

— salad, 117 

— steaks, 113 

Sandwiches a la Chateaubriand, 202 

— anchovy, 203 
Sandwich, Irish oatmeal, 229 
Sauce, caper, 74 

— apple, 90 
Sausage roll, 195 
Sausages, 167 

— beef, 171 

— pork, 170 

— veal and ham, 172 
Savoury eggs, 45 

— roll pudding, 139 
Scalloped eggs, 56 
Scones, Scotch potato, 267 



STU 

I Sconea soda, 263 
Scotch potato scones, 267 

— soda scones, 268 
Sea bream, 113 
Semolina pudding, 75 

— soup, 80 
Sheep's brains, 160 

— head souj), 91 

— tongues, 48 
Short crust, 216 
Smelts, fried, 112 
Snow, potato, 54 
Soles, baked, 42 

— filleted, 108 

— fillets \i la Maitre d'Hotcl, ] 10 

— fillets en Aspic, 110 

— fillets sautes, 109 

— fried, 107 

— fried fillets, 109 
Souffle pudding, 224 
Soup, bread, 86 

— cablwige, 94 

— milk» 76 

— pea, or lentil, 99 

— semolina, 80 

— sheep's head, 91 

— spring, 69 
Soused lienings, 40 
Spiced beef, 34 
Spinach, 208 
Sponge cake, 271 

— Lemon Savoy, 271 
Spring soup, 69 
Steak, 76 

— pie, 173 

— stewed, 82 
Stew, Irish, 80 
Stewed beefsteak, 82 
Strawberries, 283 
Stuffing, 205 



INDEX. 



311 



8TE 

Stewed ox heart, 98 
.Snet dumplings, 83 
Sweetbread balls, 163 
— cutlets, 163 
Sweetbreads, Iamb*3, 159 
Swiss pudding, 225 
Swiss roll, 272 



TART, apple, 217 
Tea, 57 

— eakes, 264 
Toast, marrow, 38 
Tongiii-, rolled, 37 
Tongues, sheeps', 48 

Tongues aud brains au Gratin, 161 
Treacle pudding, 87 
Tripe in butter, 135 

— baked with potatoes, 136 
Turbot, 113 

Turkey, fUlets of, 157 



YOU 

VANILLA rusk pudding, 227 
Veal II- la Casserole, 149 

— cutlets, ^vith Tomato sauce, 151 

— rissolettes, 152 
Veal and ham pie, 174 
Vol-au-vent, 194 

WARWICKSHIRE pudding, 90 
Water ices, 249 
Water oat cakes, 267 
Watercresses, 210 
Whipped cream, 239 
Wine, cowslip, 297 

— elderberry, 301 

— ginger, 297 

— orange, 296 

— raisin, 294 

— red currant, 300 

YEAST, 264 
Yorkshire breakfast cakes, 264 

— pudding, 67 



THE END. 



;aDBVRY, AG>-EW, & CO. PKlCfTER WHITEFRIAKS. 



-// 



< 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 687 8 



Boston Public Library 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



One \^. .a, 
. rd; to be kept 14 ^ 

and juvenile books publisher .' ^^ 
not to be renewed; to be iec9''^^'\ 
days, who will collect 20 cents '^- * 
including Sundays and holidays; 
borrower's household, and not to be irj. 
at this Hall. - . 

Borrowers finding this book mutil. 
defaced, are expected to report it; anu 
lay in the delivery of books. 
***No claim can be established becau.st 
any notice, to or from the Library, through 




** ,^» 



.m 



j^i 



-*^\ 






^m ^4^m 



f*^ 



^•* 






"*-■■. J 



