^1-^-^ 



Sood'^ 



7>*iJ 



dooi 



?; 



cook. 



C. I. HOOD &L CO., 

APOTHECARIES, - - - BARRISTERS' HALU 

LOWELL, MASS. 



ONE WORD IN RELATION TO 

HOOD'S Sarsaparilla, 

And its proper place in the Confidence of the Public. 



We are aware that there is a justifiable distrust of remedies put 
up in patent medicine style, owing to the worthlessness of a large 
majority of such medicines. Frequent calls over our counter for a 
reliable BLOOD PURIFIER, alterative, tonic and i-estorative medi- 
cine, was the motive power which set us to work to compound an 
article which we could use in oiu* own family, among our friends, 
and could conscientiously advise our customers to use whom wc 
meet face to face. So eminently successful has HOOD'S SARSA- 
PARILLA been, that our most worthy citizens furnish us with testi- 
monials of cures effected which seem miraculous, and woidd liardly 
be believed were it not for the abundance of proof and its lUKiues. 
tionable reliability. 

A Trial Bottle for 50 Cents, 

Will convince the most skeptical of the real merit of HOOD'S SAR- 
SAPARILLA, and enables everybody to test its wondertXil power in 
restoring and invigorating the whole system, in renovating and en- 
riching the blood, in giving an appetite and tone to the stomach, and 
in eradicating and curing all diseases arising from impurities in the 
blood. 



MAYOR'S OFFICE, ) 

LOWELL, MaSSACHUSKTTS. \ 

We are pei'sonally acquainted with C. I. Hood & Co., and regard 
them as woi-thy the confidence of the public. 

CHAS. A. STOTT, Mayor. 
October, 1877. W. H. CLEMENCE, Chief of Police. 



I'HKPARED ONLY BY 

C, I, Hood & Co,, Apothecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 



HOOD^S 



IC QQK g OOK 



7^-tr€t,C. "tr.^x^fi 



These receipts include those published in Mrs. Mayor Stott's famous 
*' Practical CookBook," she having kindly allowed us to use them. 
Other valuable ones have been added, together with much useful 
matter. The hlanlc pages and index will commend themselves 
to every one, as new receipts can be added and all be easily 
found, thus making Hood's Cook Book the most desirable one 
that has ever been given away. Given to every housekeeper on 
application at our store, or sent on receipt of address. 




compliments op 
C. T. HOOD &c CO., Apotliecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 



/<^7<f 



7; 



Tlie Oliject of Hoot's Cool BooL 



y^i'-.-^ 



In the publishing of this book we desire to" accomplish 
two things. First, to put into the liands of housekeepers 
receipts of such value that they will be in constant use. 
Second, to place in every family the unquestionable proof 
of the real value of Hood's Sarsaparilla. It will be noticed 
that this proof comes from the worthiest citizens in our 
immediate vicinity. Any one wishing to confer with them 
in regard to the wonderful effects of Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
can do so. 

SCROFULOUS HUMORS of the worst possible types, 
whose cure by Hood's Sarsaparilla seem hardly less than 
miracles, will be found on pages 9, 13, 16, 23, 38, GO. 
Some other cures noted are — 

SALT RHEUM, page 48, 59. 

APPETITE SHARPENED, pages 16, 25. 

LOSS OF FLESH, page 25. 

DEBILITY, pages 9, 25, 41, 44. 

INDIGESTION, page 44. 

SORE NOSE, page 44. 

SORE ON THE LEG, page 54. 

CANCEROUS HUMOR, page 58. 

SCROFULOUS BUNCH IN THE NECK, page 38. 

If your family druggist does not keep Hood's Sarsapa- 
rilla, he will gladly get it for you ; if not we will send it to 
you on receipt of price. We guarantee satisfaction every 
time, and our agents are authorized to do the same. 
Very truly, your obt. servants, 

o. I. :e3:ooxd <&: oo., 

Lowell, Mass. 



We will send Hood's Cook Book to any address, if distinctly written. 
If you can not obtain our preparations at any store in your toivn we 
will send them to you, express paid, on receipt of retaU price. 

C. I. HOOD &. CO., Apothecaries, Lowell, Mass. 



RECEIPTS 



SOUPS. 



Of all the operations of cookery, none is more impor- 
tant, nor usually more negligently executed, than the pre- 
paration of soups. Setting aside the consideration of 
economy, to begin dinner with a light soup is decidedly 
wholesome, and serves to divert the danger of eating too 
heavily of solid meat ; for it is an error for any one to 
fancy that when he has eaten heartily of roast beef only, 
he has necessarily made a wholesome dinner. 

The richest soups are made by boiling several kinds of 
meat together, as beef, mutton and veal. 

Hood's Tooth Powder whitens the teeth. 

BEEF SOUP STOCK. 

Take a shank of beef and cut the -meat in fine pieces; 
take out the marrow and with a piece of butter put into 
a kettle, put over the fire and when hot add the meat and 
cook till brown, then add the bones and sufficient hot 
water to cover, boil four hours, strain and set away to 
cool. 

BEEF SOUP. 

Take sufficient soup stock, boil onion, carrot, potatoes 
and vegetables to suit taste, in a little water, and strain 
into the soup stock ; add pepper, salt, etc. , to suit. 

- TOMATO SOUP. 

Put three pints of tomatoes, stewed, strained and 
sweetened, to two quarts of beef stock, add an onion, 
salt and pepper. 

Livest 23 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder. 



PEA SOUP. 

Take a pint of split peas, and Avheu carefully picked 
over and washed, put them into a pint of water, soak in 
morning, three ]iours before dinner put them into a pot 
with a quart more water and about half a pound of pork 
(less if you wish the soup not very rich), boil it steadily 
and be careful to stir it often lest it should burn. It may 
need more water before dinner and can be made of what- 
ever thickness you prefer. If you prefer to have the soup 
without i)ork, use the liquor in which the beef or other 
fresh meat has been boiled instead of water and use no 
pork. 



HOOD'S 

SAPONACEODS TOOTH POWDER 

Has proved itself the most efficient dentifrice for pre- 
serving, cleansing and beautifying the teeth, hardening 
the gums, and giving to them a beautiful, bright, healthy 
color. No other preparation leaves such a cool, refresh- 
ing sensation in the mouth, or gives to the breath such 
a peculiar sweetness. 

Sold everywhere, in large bottles, with neat metallic 
cap, which avoids waste and retains its fragrance, at 25 
cents; mammoth size, 50 cents. 



PIJEPARED ONLV 15 V 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 
HoocVs Sarsaparilla Purifies the Blood. 



YEAST, No. 1. 

One and a half cups of raw grated potatoes, one cup of 
white sugar, two-thirds of a cup of salt, pour on four 
quarts of boiling water, stir while pouring in. Steep a 
handful of hops and stir in the yeast ; when cold add one 
and a half cups of yeast. 

Hood's Tooth Powder hardens the gums. 

YEAST, No. 2. 

Take six good-sized potatoes, wash and pare them and 
put to boil in two quarts of water, and with them a small 
handful of hops in a small bag tightly tied. When the po- 
tatoes are quite soft take them out and mash them fine, 
pouring upon them the water in which they were boiled, 
adding a little water to make up for what they have boiled 
away ; half a cup of salt and the same quantity of sugar. 
When cooled to a lukewarm temperature adil one cup of 
yeast to ferment it. Keep in a cool place. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 1. 

One quart of meal, two-thirds of it rye, one-third Indian^ 
a cup of molasses, a teaspoonful of salt. Mix it very soft 
with a pint and a half of sour milk, in which is dissolved 
a teaspoonful of saleratus. Boil three and a half hours. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the blood. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 2. 

One pint of sour milk, two teacups of molasses, three 
cups corn meal, one and a half cups of flour, one-half tea- 
spoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of soda. Steam three 
hours. 

BROWN BREAD, No. 3. 

One and a half pints of sweet milk, one cofiee cup of 
molasses, stir in a thin batter of one-half Indian meal and 
one-half Graham, one small teaspoonful of soda. Steam 
it two hours with the cover on, one hour uncovered. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the ivhole system. 



FRYSICIAJVS' PEESCBIPTIOJVS 

And Family Medicines 

ARE A SPECIALTY WITH US, 

And believing tliat tlie best and purest medicines are none 
too good, we give our personal and most critical attention 
to the selecting, buying and careful inspection of all goods 
that enter into our stock. Quality, and not price, is the 
motive power when we buy. 

"We manufacture our Fluid Extracts, Elixirs and Phar- 
maceutical Preparations. Our Powders, Essential Oils, 
and all articles liable .to adulteration and not easily de- 
tected, are bought from a house that has enjoyed an envi- 
able reputation for reliable goods for many years, and we 
believe they send us nothing but strictly pure, fresh and 
carefully selected articles. 

An experience of many years and a persistent aim to 
know the most of the business and the best methods of 
doing it, and to excel in all things pertaining to it, are 
some of the causes that have given to our store the good 
name and business it enjoys. Our stock of 

Toilet Articles and Staple Fancy Goods 

Is large, and has been ])ought and will be sold at exceed- 
ingly low prices. 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

Barristers* Hall, opposite Post Office, 
LOWELL, MASS. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures Scrofula. 



MRS. H.'S BREAD. 

Sift eight quarts of flour into the kneading tray, put in 
a pint of yeast, mixed with a pint of lukewarm water, and 
work up this with surrounding flour till it makes a thick 
batter. Then scatter a handful of flour over the batter, 
lay a warm cloth over the whole, and set in a warm place. 
This is called sponge. When the sponge is risen so as to 
make cracks in the flour over it, scatter over it two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, and put in two quarts of wetting, warm 
but not hot enough to scald the yeast. Knead the w^hole 
thoroughly for as much as half an hour, form into a round 
mass, scatter a little flour over it, cover it, set it to rise in 
a warm place. In winter it is best to put the bread to rise 
over night, keeping it warm, in summer in the morning. 

ANOTHER BREAD. 

Five quarts of flour, piece of butter size of an egg worked 
in, one large spoonful of sugar, one small spoonful of salt, 
one quart of water or milk, two-thirds of a cup of yeast, 
let it rise over night, knead thoroughly in the morning and 
let it rise again in the bread tins. Bake an hour and a 
quarter in a moderate oven. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla restores the whole system. 

THIRD BREAD. 

One quart bolted Indian meal, scalded with boiling 
water; when cool add one cup of yeast, one quart of 
flour, one quart rye meal, two or three spoonfuls of 
molasses, a little salt ; mix with lukewarm water. Mould 
with the hand and put to rise- over night; in the morning 
add one-half teaspoonful of soda. Bake in biscuit or in 
loaves. 

RYE CAKES. 

One pint scalding hot milk, one-half cup Indian meal, 
one-half cup sugar, one cup rye meal, two cups of flour ; 
cool and then add a little salt, and one-half cup of yeast. 
Let this rise over night. In the morning add one-half 
teaspoonful of saleratus and two eggs. 



Hood's Tooth Powder whitens the teeth. 



BUEAKFAST CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, two cups of milk, two-thirds of a 
cup of melted butter, three eggs, one quart of flour, two 
teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoouful of soda. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

MUFFINS, No. 1. 

One quart of milk, one egg, one spoonful of butter, two 
spoonfuls of lard, one-half cup of yeast, and flour enough 
to make a batter a little thicker than griddle cakes. Put 
to rise over night. 

MUFFINS, No. 2. 

One pint of new milk, four eggs, one teaspoonful of 
salt, flour enough for a batter. 

CORN CAKE, No. 1. 

Two cups of Avhite Indian meal, one cup of floar, one 
pint of water, one egg, two-thirds cup of sugar, two 
teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, a 
small piece of butter and a little salt. 

Hood's Tooth Powder preserves and Ijeautirtes the teeth. 

JENNIE LUNGES. 

Half a cup of melted butter, two tablespoonflils of 
sugar, one cup of sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls of cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful soda, two eggs, three cups flour, 
and a little salt. Bake in small cups twenty minutes. 

PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart of cold ])oiled milk, two quarts of flour, one 
large tablespoonful of lard rubbed i^ito the flour; make a 
hole in the middle of the flour; take one full cup of yeast, 
one-half cup of sugar, add the milk and pour into the 
flour with a little salt ; let it stand as it is until morning, 
then knead it hard and let it rise ; knead again at four in 
the afternoon ; cut out ready to bake and let it rise again. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla costs only one penny a dose. 



SCROFULA. 

Lowell, Mass., June 7, 187C. 
Messrs. C. L Hood & Co. 

Dear Sirs : — For 20 years I have been troubled with Scrofulous 
sores, at intervals. During the two years just past, they have been 
constant, one on my forehead and six on my shoulder. These sores 
have been of such a malignant character that they seemed to proceed 
from the bone, discharging freely and part of the time a very offensive 
matter. When 1 commenced taking Hood's Sarsaparilla, the one 
on my head covered a surface of half the size of a tea-cup and was 
eating the flesh rapidly, discharging very freely and was exceedingly 
painful. There was a similar one on my shoulder. I had no appetite, 
and the little I did eat distressed me. At this time of writing, my head 
is entirely healed, though the sore was so deep it leaves quite a scar ; 
my shoulder is all healed up ; that also is badly scarred. My appetite 
has been excellent, in fact ravenous; and what is better, my food 
never distresses me now. I found that I could take only half a tea- 
spoonful three times a day. [At this rate a bottle contains 192 doses.] 
Could others know what I have suffered and see my present condition, 
they would then have some idea of my appreciation of the value of 
your Sarsaparilla. Shall be happy to explain more fully to any one 
who will take the trouble to call at my house. 

Very sincerely yours, MRS. WILEY, 

20 Prescott Corp. 



GENERAL DEBILITY. 

Lcwell, May 26, 187G. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Dear Sirs. — Last March my appetite was very poor, my 
bowels all out of order, suffering from the piles, had no strength, my 
general health in a very low condition, and had no ambition to do 
anything. At that time I was recommended to use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. Have just finished the third bottle, and am happy to say 
my appetite is excellent, my bowels regular (no trouble from piles), 
my general health and strength restored. I cheerfully recommend it 
to others suffering under similar circumstances. 

Very truly yours, THOMAS BRADLEY. 



BILIOUSNESS. 

Lowell, Mass., May 10, 187(). 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Dear Sirs: — I have been subject to violent bilious attacks for 
four years, as often as once in two months, which wholly unfit me for 
work. The last one I had (after being sick two days) I bought a bot- 
tle of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and in twenty-four hours I was feeling 
like a different person. My tongue, which had been thickly coated 
^making my mouth taste very disagreeably), was perfectly free in 
forty-eight hours, and I was able to return to my work, feeling better 
than I had for many months. 

Yours truly, E. S. DAVIS, 

No. 17 Andover street. 



10 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES 

One quart buckwheat flour, one teaspoonful of salt, stir 
in water to malve a thin batter ; beat tlioroughly four table- 
spoonfuls home-brewed yeast. Set the batter in a warm 
place ; let it rise over night ; add one teaspoonful of soda 
in the morning. 

JOKERS. 

Two cups Graham meal, one cup of flour, a little salt, 
two eggs, well beaten, added after flour and milk are 
mixed to a batter thick as pound cake. Bake in a quick 
oven. 

GRAHAM ROLLS, No. 1. 

Two cups Graham meal, one-half cup of flour, oue 
egg, two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of 
soda, one-half cup of sugar and a little salt. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 

GRAHAM ROLLS, No. 2. 

One quart Graham flour, 1 cup sugar, 1 cup yeast, 1 table- 
spoonful butter rubbed in the flour ; mix as hard as you 
can stir with a spoon, let it rise over night and bake in 
roll pans ; do not sift the flour. 

ROLLS. 

Take two quarts of flour and work in a large spoonful 
of lard ; half a piut of milk boiled and cooled, add it to 
the flour and work thoroughly ; add one-half cup of yeast 
and a little sugar. If for breakfast mix at noon and let 
rise until bedtime, then roll out and lay on the cake board 
until time to bake for breakfast. If for tea mix at night 
and roll in the morning. Bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

NEWPORT CAKES. 

Two cups of milk, three eggs, one great spoonful of 
sugar, one of butter, oue teaspoonful of cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda. Make a thin batter. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla makes the weak strong. 



11 



JENNIE'S SALLIE LUND GEMS. 

One egg, two tablespooufuls of melted butter, one cup 
of sweet milk, two tablespoonfiils sugar, two cups flour, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonfUl salera- 
tus. Bake tifteeu minutes. 

JENNY LIND DROP CAKES. 

Two aucl a half cups of flour, a small piece of butter, 
one cup of sweet milk, one-half cup of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda, a 
little salt, one egg broken in after the rest is put together. 

Hood's Tooth Powder sweetens the breath. 

OATMEAL CAKES. 

One cup of cream, two cups of sour milk, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one large teaspoonful of soda, oat- 
meal sufficient to make a thick batter. 

RYE BREAKFAST CAKES. 

Two cups of rye meal, one-half cup molasses, a little 
salt, a cup and a half of sweet milk to mix it very soft, 
and one teaspoonful of saleratus. Bake at once in a roll 
pan or muffin rings. 

COCOANUT CAKE, No. 1. 

Two well-beaten eggs, two tablespooufuls of butter, two 
cups prepared cocoanut, one cup sugar, one-half cup of 
milk, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful 
soda ; soak the cocoanut in milk. 

COCOANUT CAKE, No. 2. 

Three-fourths of a pound of flour, half a pound of but- 
ter, mixed together; one pound of sugar and the yolks of 
five eggs mixed together; mix these with one large cocoa- 
nut; beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, and put in 
half a teaspoonful of soda and one of cream tartar. This 
is sufficient for two loaves. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures indigestion. 



12 



GEMS. 

Two cups of Hour, one cup of milk, one cup water, a lit- 
tle salt, mix well ami pour iuto iron-clan pans that have 
been heated very hot indeed, lirst puttinij: apiece of butter 
in each partition. Bake quickly in a very hot oven. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is only 25 cents a bottle. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Quarter and slice your apples, make a batter of two 
eggs, one cup of milk, a little salt and flour, or the same 
as for fried oysters ; put in your apples and fry in hot fat 
the same as oysters. Very nice for breakfast. 

POP-OVERS. 

Three cups of milk, three cups of flour, three eggs. 
Bake half an hour in a quick oven in cups. 

MARY ANN'S CREAM CAKE. 

One pint of water, one pint of flour, one-half pint of 
butter ; when the water boils put in the butter to melt, and 
stir in the flour. Set away to cool and then mix in seven 
eggs. Drop in a tin and bake in a quick oven. Cream for 
same — one pint of milk, four eggs, two cups of sugar, one 
cup of flour ; beat sugar, eggs and flour together and stir 
in the milk while boiling. Flavor to taste. 

PLAIN DARK CAKE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, two spoonfuls of mo- 
lasses, one cup butter, one-half cup sour milk, one spoon- 
ful of soda, two eggs, two and one-half cups of flour, a 
little of all kinds of spice, currants and raisins. 

GOLD CAKE. 

Two cups not quite full of flour, the yolks of four eggs, 
one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar. Flavor to taste. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is delicate to take. 



The following Testimonial from a reliable gentleman, 
who has specially observed the effects resulting from the use 
of more than fifty bottles of 

HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA 

by different persons, is only one of many at our disposal, and 
proves the following to be a fact, namely, that Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla is 

SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER PREPARATIONS 

as a specific remedy for 

SCROFULA AND THE NUMEROUS DISEASES 

springing from this taint in the blood, the extent of which 
must be realized, wlien statistics show that a large majority of 
our population are suffering from its influence, either directly 
or indirectly. 

WiLTOx, N. H., Jan. 15th, 1876. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

Gekts : The little girl for whom I procured your Sarsa- 
parilla was so badly aflfiicted witli Scrofula, that the side of 
her neck, extending all over the ear and up into the hair, was 
one complete mass of matter. At this stage of the eruption 
I gave her a part of a botfle of Hood's Sarsaparilla, and 
before she had taken all of that it began to heal. I then got 
one bottle more and tliat cured lier completeh% leaving no 
scar to show that slie had ever been troubled by that terrible 
disease, Scrofula. The beneficial effect derived from the use 
of Hood's Sarsaparilla by those for whom I have procured 
it, has in every instance been more speedy and positive, than 
I liave ever found to be the case from the use of any other 
preparation of the kind. 

Verv truly yours, 

E. G. WOODMAN. 

PKEPARED ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

TjOwelIj, mass, 

[kkad nkxt pack. "I 



u 

SILVER CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, the whites of four eggs, one cup of 
sugar, one-half cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cleanses the blood of humors. 

ANNIE'S CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One full cup of butter, two cups of flour, two cups of 
sugar, one cup — not quite full — milk, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, one teaspoonful cream tartar, five eggs, leaving 
out the whites of two ; rub butter and sugar together, 
add eggs, two-thirds of the milk, then flour, then the 
rest of the milk in which you have dissolved the soda ; 
while hot, spread with an icing made of the whites of 
eggs, one and a half cups of pulverized sugar, two tea- 
spoonfuls essence vanilla and six tablespoonfUls of vanilla 
chocolate. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

For the white cake — one cup of butter, three cups of 
white sugar, five cups of flour, even full, one-half cup of 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, whites of eight 
eggs ; flavor with lemon. For the dark cake — one cup of 
butter, two cups brown sugar, one cup of molasses, one 
cup of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, four cups of 
flour, yolks of eight eggs and one whole egg, spices of all 
sorts ; put in pans, first a layer of dark, then a layer of 
white, and so on, finishing with a dark layer. Bake in a 
hot oven. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE, No. L 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of milk, two cups of but- 
ter, four eggs, six cups of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream 
tartar, one teaspoonful of soda ; flavor with lemon. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE, No. 2. 

Three ^eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, 
one-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, one teaspoon- 
full of soda, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar ; flavor to taste. 

Hood's Tooth Powder leaves a delightful taste lu the month. 



15 



ANOTHER CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, three and a half cups of flour, three whole eggs and 
the yolks of two more, one teaspoonful of cre&m tartar, 
one-half teaspoonful of soda. Frosting for same — whites 
of two eggs beaten with sugar quite stiff, three table- 
spoonfuls grated chocolate, teaspoonful of vanilla. 

Hood's Tooth Powder contains nothing injurious. 

HERMIT CAKES. 

One-half cup of butter, one and a lialf cups of sugar, 
three eggs, one teaspoonful of all kinds of spice, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a little water ; mix up 
stiff and roll. 

LILY CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, mixed together; 
one cup of sweet milk, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one 
cup of corn starch, two cups of flour, one teaspoonful of 
cream tartar, whites of Ave eggs. Flavor, and frost with 
chocolate frosting. 

QUEEN'S CAKEr. 

One and three-quarters pounds flour, one and a half 
pounds of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of butter, six 
eggs, one pint of milk, one pound of raisins, one glass of 
brandy, one nutmeg, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in 
the milk. 

DANBURY, OR GOLD AND SILVER CAKE. 

Gold cake— three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, five 
cups of flour, one and a half cups of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, the 
yolks of twelve eggs. Flavor with vanilla. Silver cake 
— Whites of twelve eggs, three cups of sugar, one cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, one teaspoonful of cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. Flavor with almond. 
Five cups of flour. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla sharpens the appetite. 



That Bxtreme Tired Feeling. 

" The first bottle has done my daughter a great deal of good; her 
food does not distress her now nor does she sufler from tliat extreme 
tired feeling which she did before taking Hood's Sarsai'AUIlla." 

Other Blood Purifiers ruin the appetite. Hood's yAusAPAUiLLA 
stimulates and sharpens it. 



A Severe Case of Scrofulous Humor Cured. 

Lowell, Mass., May 15, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen: — Allow me to tell you how very valuable your Sar- 
saparilla has proved itself in my faniily. My youngest son has always 
been troubled with Scrofulous Humor, sores in his head discharging 
from his ears, a running sore on the back of his ear for two years, his 
eyelids would fester and ulcerate, discharging so that I was obliged to 
wash them open every morning, his eyelashes nearly all coming out ; 
he was exceedingly dainty, most of the time eating but two slight 
meals a day. We were unable to find any thing that had the least 
effect upon him till last spring (1870) we gave him two bottles of 
Hood's Saksapakilla. His appetite improved at once, and it was 
a real pleasure to see him eat with the keen relish of a little pig. 
The back of his ear healed up without a scar, and not a sore in his 
head since. " Truth is stranger than fiction." The above are facts, 
and you are at liberty to use them as you please. 

Sincerely yours, Mrs. N. C. SANBORN, 

108 East Merrimack Street. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla strengthens and builds up the system 
while it eradicates disease, 

A yoong lady tells us, '' Hood's Sarsaparilla is doing wonders. 
1 haven't felt so well b(<fore for six months." Hundreds have report- 
ed the same and are telling it to their friends, who in turn get a bottle, 
try it, and so it keeps repeating itself. A thing possessing real merit, 
as Hood's Sarsaparilla undoiihtedly does, is bound to meet general use. 
Satisfaction guaranteed every time. We mean this! 



Appetite Restored. 

92 Church Street, Lowell, May IG, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gents: — 'J'hree months since I found myself very much reduced, 
had no appetite, no strength and was feeling as mean as any one 
could and be about my work. As soon as I began taking Hood's 
Sarsaparilla my food relished and seemed to do me some good, 
which it did not before. 1 felt myself growing stronger every day, 
and am now feeling better tlian I have for a long time. I thoroughly 
believe in the value of Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

Yours, etc. WM. H. MUNGAN. 



prepared only my 
C. I. HOOD <£' CO., ArOTHECARIES, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 
Sold by all druggists. 



17 

RAISED CAKE. 

Thrffi cups of light dough, three eggs, two heaping 
cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of chopped 
raisins ; put in a dish together and work with hand till 
well mixed, spice to taste. Put in pans and bake imme- 
diately. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla gives an appetite. 

CHEAP SPONGE CAKE. 
Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, into 
which mix one teaspoonful of cream tartar, and one-half 
teaspoonful of soda dissolved in three teaspoonfuls of 
warm water. The last thing add a dessert spoonful of 
vinegar, stirring briskly. Bake about twenty-five minutes 
in not too hot an oven. The batter will be very thin. 

MRS. S.'S SPONGE CAKE. 
Eleven eggs, four cups of sugar, four cups of flour; 
beat the yolks and sugar together, add the whites well 
beaten, stir the flour in last as lightly as possible. 

• CORN STARCH CAKE. 

The whites of three . eggs, one-half cup of corn starch, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, one-half 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one- fourth teaspoonful of 
soda, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour. Flavor with 
lemon. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used by every one. 

ELECTION CAKE. 
One pound of sugar, three-fourths of a pound of butter, 
four eggs, one-half pint of yeast, two and a half pounds 
of flour, one pint of milk, spices and raisins, one teacup 
of molasses ; mix the yeast Avith the milk and part of the 
flour and let it stand over night ; in the morning work the 
butter and sugar together, then add the eggs and work 
the dough with the rest of the ingredients; rise again 
before bakins:. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla invigorates the nervous system. 



18 

DELICIOUS CAKE. 

Two cups of white sugar, one cup of butter, one cnp of 
milk, three eggs, ooe teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, three cups of flour ; beat butter and 
sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs, then the beaten 
whites ; dissolve the soda in milk, rub the cream tartar in 
flour and add last. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla imparts new life to all the functions 
of the body. 

CIRCLE CAKE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar, two cups of flour, one-third 
of a cup of butter, one-half cup of sweet milk, one tea- 
spoonful of cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful of soda. 
Flavor with rose or lemon. 

PANCAKES. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful of salt; 
mix to a very thin batter, drop in hot lard. To be eaten 
with wine and sugar. 

CHAPIN CAKE. 

Six cups flour, one cup of butter, three cups of sugar, 
two cups of milk, two eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, one 
pound of chopped raisins. 

Hood's Tooth Powder prevents the accumrlation of 
tartar. 

BUTTERMILK CAKE. 

Three cups of pulverized sugar, one cup of butter, one 
cup of buttermilk, six eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, three 
cups of flour. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

Five cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of cofl(ee, 
one cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of raisins, 
and a teaspoonful of soda. 



HooiVs Sarsaparilla cures dyspepsia. 



HOOD'S 

mmm tooti mii 

A JPreserver and Beautifier of the Teeth, 

Emineut Deutists use Hoocf s Tooth Powder in 
their practice, and are positive in their words of praise. 



MOOJD'S TOOTH POWDER 

Cleanses the teeth thoroughly, prevents decay, and 
hardens the gums. 



HOOD'S TOOTH POWDER 

Commends itself to all by its delightful flavor, and the 
cool pleasing sensation it imparts to and leaves in the 
mouth, also the neat and convenient style in which it is 
offered for sale. 



In, large Sottles with Metallic Cap, 



PREPARED ONLY BY 



C. I- Hood & Co., Apothecaries, 

Opposite JPost Office, Lowell, Mass, 



20 



JELLY CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, small 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of milk; beat all well 
together. When baked spread with jelly. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures dyspepsia. 

TUMBLER CAKE. 
Three tumblers of sugar, one tumbler of butter, one 
tumbler of sweet milk, four eggs, live tumblers of flour, 
one teaspoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda, 
a tumbler of citron. Flavor with lemon. 

PARK STREET CAKE. 
Whites and yolks of four eggs beaten separately, two 
cups of white sugar, one cup of milk, three cups of flour, 
one-half cup butter, two teaspoonfiils of cream tartar, 
one teaspoonful of soda. Flavor to taste. 

HICKORY NUT CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup 
milk, two cups flour, one teaspoonful cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoonful soda, one large cup raisins, one cup nuts 
broken up, two eggs. 

Worthy of notice : Hood's Tooth Powder. 

DELICATE CAKE. 
Nearly three cups flour, two cups of sugar, three- 
fourths of a cup of sweet milk, whites of s-ix eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, half a teaspoonfld of soda, 
half a cup of butter. Lemon for flavoring. 

SKELETONS. 

Two eggs, three tablespoonfuls of sugar and one table- 
spoonful of butter, flour to make very stifi". Roll very 
thin and cut in fancy shapes. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla tones and strengthens the digestive 
organs. 



21 

RAISIN CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, one-half cup of sugar, two eggs, 
one-half cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, one cup of 
raisins, one-half teaspoonful of soda, one teaspoonful of 
cream tartar. 

Hood's Tooth Powder neutralizes the offensive secre- 
tions of the mouth. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD, No. 1. 

Two cups of Orleans molasses, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of sour milk, one-half cup of butter, one egg, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, tablespoonful of ginger, sufficient flour 
for a thick batter. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD, No. 2. 

Two cups of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup 
of sour cream, one teaspoonful of ginger, two teaspoon- 
fuls of soda, Ave and a half cups of flour. 

HARD GINGERBREAD. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three eggs, one 
teaspoonful of cream tartar, one -half teaspoonful soda. 
Season with ginger and nutmeg. Flour enough to roll. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

Bring to a scald one cup of molasses, and stir in one 
tablespoonful of soda, pour it, while foaming, over one 
cup of sugar, one egg, one tablespoonful of ginger, beaten 
together ; then add one tablespoonful of vinegar. Flour 
enough to roll stirred in as lightly as possible. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla works wonders in the blood. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

One quart flour, one egg, one-half cup sugar, one cup 
sweet milk, six teaspooufuls melted lard, two even spoon- 
fuls cream tartar, one even spoonful soda. 



Invest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Poioder. 



22 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of milk, half cup of yeast, flour enough to 
make a batter; make this batter at noon, set it in a warm 
place and let it rise until night; if light add tablespoon- 
ful of butter, same of salt, one egg, cup of sugar and a 
little cinnamon, half teaspoonful of soda, and let it rise 
until morning. 

DOUGHNUTS, No. 2. 

One cup of sour milk, one cup of sugar, one egg, one 
teaspoonful of soda, two tablespoonfuls melted butter, a 
little salt and spice. Mix very soft. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used every night and 
morning. 

COOKIES, No. 1. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, two eggs, one- 
half cup of milk, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful of soda, flour to roll stitt'. 

COOKIES, No. 2. 

One and a half cups of brown sugar, one cup of butter, 
two eggs, one cup of currants, two great spoonfuls of 
sweet milk, small teaspoonful of soda; cinnamon, cloves, 
nutmeg to taste. 

BUNS. 

Three cups new milk, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of 
yeast ; make a stiff* batter at night ; in the morning mix 
one-half cup of butter and one and a half cups of sugar, 
and mix with the batter, flour to roll out, add currants. 
Cut out as biscuit, and raise them light before baking. 

To build up the system use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CURRANT WINE PIE. 

One cup currant wine, one cup sugar, one spooniui of 
flour. Two crusts. 



Bead page 38. 



23 

CORROBORAT£D FACTS. 

The Worst Case of Scrofalous Humor on Record Cured, 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. Lowell, Mass., Sept. 25, 1877. 

My Dear Sirs :— If any one doubts what has been done for me by 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, I would like to have them call and seenie. I take 
no stock in testimonials away off, but what has been done here is 
worth looking at. For nearly ten years past 1 have had scrofulous 
sores, from which I have sufl'ered more than 1 can possibly tell. For 
nearly two years (previous to my taking Hood's Sarsaparilla) I have 
not been out of the house, as they came out on my limbs, and during 
the six months previous to May I was obliged to use crutches to get 
round my room. These sores seemed to be real ulcers, and were so 
called by doctors who examined them. One of them was so deep 
tliat it caused the muscles of my leg to contract so that I could not 
touch my heel to the floor. I had thirteen of these sores on me at one 
time. My health was very poor, appetite fastidious, thin in flesh and 
could not sleep nights on account of pain and nervousness. Mr. 
Moses Whittier urged me to try Hood's Sarsaparilla, and was so san- 
guine of its merit that I finally, Avith more faith in him than in the 
medicine, sent for a bottle. Am now taking the fourth bottle. Before 
I had taken the first bottle there was a great change in me, which was 
spoken of by others in the house. Before I had taken the third, the 
sores, six in number, ahd one verj' large one which the children said 
was a terrible sight, were nearly healed. My appetite has been bet- 
ter ever after I commenced taking the Sarsaparilla, am stronger, am 
regaining my flesh, sleep well and am in better liealth than I have 
been for years. Don't use crutches, can put my foot square upon the 
floor, ana have been upon the sti*eet several times. Others are now 
taking the Sarsaparilla on my recommendation, and all are being 
benefited by it. Am willing you should publish these facts, for if 
others ai-e suffering as I have, I would like them to know how much 
I have been relieved, for all of which I am sincerely gratefid. 

SARAH C. WHITTIER, No. 6 Tremont Corporation. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. Lowell, Mass., Oct. 9, 1877. 

Gentlemen : — In reply to your inquiry as to Miss Sarah Whittier, I 
would say, I have known her for more than twelve years. During the 
few years just passed she has been a constant suflerer from scrofu- 
lous sores, and was obliged to leave her work about three years ago 
on account of these sores. Late last spring I did not think it possible 
for her to live many months, at the longest. She was a mere skele- 
ton, had scrofulous sores on her ear and limbs, and could put but one 
heel to the floor on account of a terrible sore on her leg, which had 
drawn up the muscles and cords. She could iiot get about her room 
except with the aid of crutches. I advised her to use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. I saw her a few days since and found her very much im- 
proved; has regained her flesh, walks out on the street, without 
crutches ; her changed condition is very remarkable. She has used 
four bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla. I give you this confirmation of her 
statement of the wonderful effect of Hood's Sarsaparilla upon her, 
h at others suffering may have reason to believe in the efficacy of this 



very excellent medicine. Respectfully yours, 
MOSES WHIT^ 



TIER, No. 38 Kirk Street. 



24 

WAFERS. 

One quart of flour, four ounces of lard or butter, a little 
salt. Mix with cold water; pound with a rolling pin 
twenty minutes. To be rolled out very thin, and cut with 
a doughnut cutter. To be eaten with jelly. 

Hood's Tooth Powder gives the gums a bright, healthy 
color. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Two eggs, one and a half cups of molasses, one cup of 
butter, one teaspoouful of cloves, one teaspoonful of cin- 
namon, one-half teaspoonful of saleratus, three cups of 
flour, one pound currants or raisins — improved by citron. 
Bake two hours rather slowly. 

CHEAP FRUIT CAKE. 

One-half cup of butter, two cups of flour, three-fourths 
of a cup of sugar, one-half cup of milk, less than one-half 
cup of molasses, two eggs, one-half teaspoonful of soda 
in molasses to foam, one cup of chopped raisins, a little 
clove and cinnamon. 

LEMON CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar rubbed to a 
cream; stir into it the yolks of Ave well-beaten eggs, dis- 
solve a teaspoouful of soda iu a teacup of milk, then add 
the milk and the grated peel of one lemon, the Avhites of 
five eggs, sifting in as lightly as possible four teacupfuls 
of flour. This will make four long tins full. 

To invigorate the aged use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CLOVE CAKE. 

Two cups of flour, one-half cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two eggs, two cups 
or more of raisins, one teaspoonful of soda, one-half tea- 
spoonful each of cloves, cinnamon and alspice, one-half a 
nutmeg. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures constipation. 



A REAL BLOOD PURIFIER. 



The Lowell Weekly Journal of May 11 says: "We do not as a 
rule allow ourselves to use our editorial columns to speak of any 
remedy we advertise, but we feel warranted in saying a word for 
Hood's Sarsaparilla. Sarsaparilla has been known to materia 
medica as a remedial agent for centuries, and is recommended by all 
schools of practice as a valuable blood-purifier. It is put up in forms 
of almost infinite variety ; but Messrs. Hood & Co. who are thoroughly 
reliable pharmacists, seem to have hit upon a preparation of unusual 
value. Certainly they have vouchers for cures which we know to be 
most extraordinary." 



Lost Twenty-Five Pounds. 

A gentleman tells us : " Before I commenced taking Hood's 
Sarsaparilla I had fallen in weight from 165 to 140 pounds. With 
the first bottle my appetite has returned, my strength is restored and 
I am rapidly regaining ray flesh." 



Gained Ten Pounds. 

Another gentleman who has been suffering from the debility and 
languor peculiar to this season, says : " Hood's Sarsaparilla is 

Suiting new life right into me. I have gained ten pounds since I 
egan to take it." Has taken two bottles. 



No other Sarsaparilla has such a sharpening effect upkon the appe- 
tit€. No other preparation tones and strengthens the digestive 
organs like Hood's Sak.saparilla. 

Hood's .Sarsaparilla works through the blood, regulating, 
toning and invigorating all the functions of the body. 

Wonderful cases of Scrofulous Humor cured prove more than 
we ever claimed for Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

An ex-alderman of this city says of Hood's Sarsaparilla, " It 
is the strongest Sarsaparilla I ever saw." 

Persistent cases of Scrofula have yielded to Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

Sold by all druggists. 



prepared only by 



C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

Harristers' Hall, Lotvell, Mass, 



26 

WEDDING CAKE. 

Two pounds each of butter, sugar and flour, six pounds 
of currants, five of raisins, and two of citron, and nine- 
teen eggs, two tablespoonfuls of cloves, six nutmegs, 
wineglass of brandy. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Whites of five eggs, one and a half cups of sugar, one- 
half cup of butter, one cup of milk, one-half teaspoonful 
of soda, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, three cups flour. 
Separate this mixture and color half Avith strawberry col- 
oring. Flavor this with vanilla, the Mhite with lemon. 
Put in the white, then the pink. Bake slowly. 

Invest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder. 

NEW YORK CUP CAKE. 

Take four eggs, four tumblers of sifted flour, tliree tum- 
blers of powdered white sugar, one tumbler of butter, one 
tumbler of rich milk, one glass of white wine, a grated 
nutmeg, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a small 
teaspoonful of saleratus. Warm the milk and cut in the 
butter, keeping it by the fire until the butter is melted ; 
stir into the milk the eggs beaten very light, in turn with 
the flour ; add the spice and wine, and lastly, the saleratus 
dissolved in a little vinegar. Stir it all very hard. Bake 
in a loaf, in a moderate oven. 

This is a good time to take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of nice bread crumbs, one quart of milk, one 
cup of sugar, the yolks of four eggs, the grated rind of 
one lemon, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Baked 
like a custard. When baked spread over the top slices of 
jelly of any kind, and cover the whole with the whites of 
the eggs beaten to a stifl" froth, with one cup of sugar and 
the juice of the lemon. Brown lightly in the oven. 



Hood's Tooth Poioder sweetens the breath. 



FOUR FRUIT PUDDING. 

Butter thin slices of baker's bread on both sides. Stew 
together raspberries, blueberries, blackberries and cur- 
rants, and sweeten to taste. Fill the pudding dish with a 
laj'er of bread and a layer of fruit, alternately, and cover 
the top with a frosting of whites of eggs beaten with 
sugar. Set it in the oven long enough to brown the frost- 
ing delicately. This is best prepared the day before it is 
to be eaten. It is to be served with cream if convenient. 

To remove all humors of the blood use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Six oranges pared and cut fine, strew over them one cup 
of sugar, beat the yolks of six eggs with four spoonfuls of 
corn starch, strain into one quart of boiling milk, put the 
starch over the oranges when hot. Beat the whites of the 
eggs with two spoonfuls of sugar, and pour them over the 
starch. Brown in the oven. To be eaten cold. 

Decorate your mouth with pearly teeth by using Hood's 
Tooth Powder. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

The yolks of three eggs, beaten with nine spoonfuls of 
white sugar, the juice of two lemons, a tablespoonful of 
flour, two spoonfuls of melted butter, a small tumbler of 
sweet milk. Make a batter for a pie, after it is baked and 
ready, beat to a froth the whites of three eggs, with three 
spoonfuls of white sugar, spread it over the top and return 
to the oven and brown lightly. 

DELMONT PUDDING. 

Set one quart of milk into water and let it boil, beat the 
yolks of five eggs with four tablespooufuls of corn starch, 
one cup of sugar. Cook in the milk and flavor to taste. 
Beat the whites of the five eggs with one-half cup of sugar, 
flavor and pour over the top. Set in the oven till lightly 
browned. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the ivliole system. 



28 

SUET PUDDING. 

Oue cup of chopped raisins, two cups of suet, oue cup 
of sweet milk, two-thirds of a cup of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, four cups of flour. Steam two hours. 
Wine sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING WITH SAUCE. 

One coflee cup of su^ar, one tablespoonful butter, two 
eggs, three cups flour, one cup milk, two even spoonfuls 
of cream tartar, one even spoonful soda. 
Trial bottle Hood's SarsapariUa 50 cts. Large bottles $1.00. 

PEACH PIE. 

Select mellow, juicy peaches ; wash and place them in a 
deep pie plate lined with paste ; strew a thick layer of 
sugar over each of the peaches, adding a spoonful of water 
and sprinkling of flour over the top of each layer; cover 
with a thick crust, and bake about an hour. 

CREAM PIES. 

One quart of milk, the yolks of three eggs, two cups of 
sugar, two spoonfuls of flour ; boil this until it begins to 
thicken. Make a rich crust, put in the cream, flavor with 
lemon, and bake in a quick oven. Beat the whites of the 
eggs stiff, and frost. Put in the oven and color a little. 

Make your children clean their teeth with Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

CREAM OR COCOANUT PIES. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of water, one- 
half teaspoonful of soda dissolved in the water, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one and a half cups of flour, a small 
lump of butter. Cream — one-half cup of sugar, one-half 
cup of flour, one q*j:'j;; l)eat the egg, stir in the sugar and 
flour, then stir in one-half pint boiling milk, and two 
spoonfuls cocoanut. Make a frosting for the outside, 
sprinkle thickly with cocoanut before dry. The pie will 
be delicious. 



Bead page 23 ; it may save a friend's life. 



29 

A dentist who has had a large practice in our city 
for many years, writes us regarding 

Hood's Tooth Powder. 



Lowell, Mass., Sept. 25th, 1877. 

Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen : — Since you began to manufacture Hood's 
Saponaceous Tooth Powder I liave used it in my family 
and have* recommended it in my practice extensively. 1 
regard it as one of the best dentifrices in the market, and 
knowing the materials and the careful manner in which it 
13 made, I can assure the public that it contains nothing 
that can possibly injure the teeth or gums, but if used 
constantly will cleanse and preserve them, and its neutral- 
izing properties will keep the mouth sweet. 
Yours truly, 

A. T. JOHNSON, Dentist. 



Wonderful Stories are told over our counter of what 
Hood's Sarsaparilla has done and is doing. 

A lady full of animation said to us, "I have not been 
able to work constantly during the hot weather for many 
years. This summer I have taken three bottles Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, and have been vigorous and strong through 
the hot weather, and have worked every day, and feel as 
smart and active now as can be." 

This is only one of many. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla eradicates scrofula. 



30 



ROXBURY PATENT CREAM PIE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and one-half cups flour, 
five eggs and a little lemon. Beat the yolks and sugar 
well, then add the whites previously beaten to a stiff froth 
with the flour. Fill with the following : to a pint of boil- 
ing milk add one-half cup sugar and one-half cup of flour. 
Beat with two eggs and a little lemon. Let it boil two or 
three minutes, and set in a cool place. 

LEMON PIE, No. 1. 

Two lemons, two cups sugar, five eggs, two tablespoon- 
fuls of corn starch, one pint of milk ; grate the lemons, 
add the juice, stir together. Scald the corn starch with 
milk. This will make two pies, which must be baked in 
rich puff paste. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is the best, strongest and cheapest. 

LEMON PIE, No. 2. 

Grate the rind of one lemon for spice, press out the 
juice and add to it one cup of powdered sugar, the yolks 
of two eggs, and one whole egg, one teaspoonful of corn 
starch scalded in one-half cup of milk. Line in a deep 
plate with pastry, and pour in the mixture ; bake like a 
custard pie. While this is baking beat the whites of two 
eggs with three tablespoonfids of sugar to a stiff froth. 
When the pie is done pour on the frosting, return to the 
oven and brown lightly. 

RAISIN PIE. 

Boil one pound raisins an hour covered with water, add 
one lemon, one cup white sugar, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour. For three pies. 

A Greorgia girl say^ Hood's Tooth Powder is the best. 

SAUCE. 
Two cups sugar, one cup butter, wine glass wine, two 
eggs. Pour over boiling water ; to be well beaten. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla has cured salt rheum. 



31 

APPLE PUFFS. 

Pare and slice six tart apples, stew them and strain them 
through a cullender, sweeten and add a pinch of salt ; let 
this cool while you make your paste, of two spoonfuls of 
butter worked into eight spoonfuls of flour ; add ice water 
to make consistency of bread dough, put on the molding 
board and roll quite thin, scatter small pieces of butter 
over this, and dredge with flour, then fold it up and roll 
quite thin again, repeat this operation any number of times, 
always rolling the paste ioto something like a square form. 
Cut the paste into pieces four inches square, put a small 
spoonful of sauce on one-half of the square, moisten the 
paste around it with water, and fold the other half over 
on to it. Make the edges perfectly smooth. Bake in a 
dripping pan lined with paper in a quick oven. When you 
take them from the oven silt a little powdered sugar over 
each pufl". 

It is delightful to cleanse the teeth with Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

GOLD AND ^SILVER PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, one cup of sugar, six eggs, leaving 
out the whites of four; scald the milk; add sugar and 
dissolved corn starch, and one wineglass of Sherry wine ; 
bake for half an hour ; when cold cover with a frosting 
made of the whites of the four eggs, a cup of pulverized 
sugar, and flavoring ; brown in a hot oven. 

Scrofula and salt rheum have been cured by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

RICE PUDDING. 

One cup of rice boiled soft in water ; add a pint of cold 
milk and a piece of butter size of an egg, yolks of four 
eggs, rind of lemon grated. Mix and bake half an hour. 
Beat the whites of four eggs ; stir in a pint of sugar, the 
juice of a lemon. After the pudding is baked and cooled 
a little, pour this over and brown in oven. Eat cold. 
Will keep several days. 



Hood's Tooth Powder removes tartar from the teeth. 



HOOD'S 



THE BEST KExMEDY TO 

PURIFY THE BLOOD 
Hood's Sarsaparilla, 

It contains more medicinal virtue than any other Blood 
Purilier. There are no remedies whose purifying proper- 
ties are so universally aclvnovvledired as Sarsaparilla, Dock, 
Stillingia, Mandrake, and Iodide of Potassium. Hood's 
Sarsaparilla combines these in an agreeable and effectual 
form. 

For Scrofula and kindred diseases it is not equalled by 
any other preparation. 



IT IS A SUKE CURE FOU 

SCROFULA, SALT RHEUM, 

SCALD HEAD, CATARRH, 

FEMALE WEAKNESSES, RHEUMATISM, 
DISEASES OF THE SKIN, 

BOILS, PIMPLES, 

AND ALL OTHEIl DISEASES ARISING KROM 

IMPURITIES OF THE BLOOD. 



PREPARED ONLY BY 

€, I, HOOD <£• CO., - - Apothecaries, 
Opposite the Post Office, Lowell, Mass. 



33 

GERMAN TOAST. 

Cut into slices a loaf of baker's bread, soak them ten or 
fifteen minutes in a pint of milk, two eggs and a little salt.- 
Fry iu equal parts of lard and butter till they are a light 
brown on both sides. This dish is quickly prepared for a 
dessert and may be eaten with a pudding sauce. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of milk, butter the size of an 
egg, three eggs — reserving the whites of two for frosting — 
one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoonful soda. When baked frost at once, with a cup 
of sugar added to the whites of the two eggs. 

For your children use Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Beat four eggs ; stir to them half a pound of flour, and 
half a pint of milk, half a pound of chopped suet, half a 
pound of stoned raisins, well floured, and a few currants, 
a teaspoonful of salt. Boil the pudding four hours, briskly. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

ENGLISH PUDDING. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one cup of 
sweet milk, a teaspoonful of soda, a teaspoonful of difler- 
ent spices, one cup of chopped raisins, three and a half 
cups of flour. Steam two or three hours. 

Thousands use Hood's Tooth Powder, and praise it. 

VICTORIA FRITTERS. 

Slice a loaf of baker's bread into pieces an inch thick ; 
cut the slices in the center, trimming ofl" the crust, and 
place them on a flat dish. Take a quart of rich milk, one 
salt-spoonful of salt, eight beaten eggs. Stir the whole 
together and pour over the bread several hours before 
dinner, that it may be equally moistened. Fry in hot 
butter a delicate brown, and eat with sweet wine sauce. 



HoocTs Sarsaparilla gives tone to the stomach. 



34 
MEMORANDA. 



It is delightful to cleanse the teeth icith Hood's Tooth Powder. 



35 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half cup of butter, one and a half cups of white 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, and one whole egg, one-half cup 
of sweet milk, one-half teaspoouful of soda, one teaspoon- 
ful of cream tartar, two cups of flour; bake in thin pie 
pans. After beating the white to a stiff froth, stir in a 
cupful of sugar and a cupful of dessicated cocoanut. 
Put this between the layers of cake. Frosting improves it. 

SALEM PUDDING. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup molasses, a little 
salt, one cup of milk, two teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
cup of raisins, one teaspoouful of soda, three and a half 
cups of flour. Steam three hours. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is praised by everybody. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 1. 

One cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, beaten to a 
cream ; then add the yolk and white of one egg, beaten 
separately ; flavor with a little lemon or vanilla ; set to 
cool. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 2. 

Two eggs, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter, one 
cup of boiling wine, to be poured on the mixture thor- 
oughly. 

PUDDING SAUCE, No. 3. 

Take the yolks of two eggs and a cup of sugar ; beat 
five minutes and set over a teakettle to dissolve. When 
sufficiently thin for sauce, place in the dish ready to serve ; 
then add the whites beaten to a stifi* froth, and a wineglass 
of sherry. 

A reliable and remarkable medicine : Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

EGG SAUCE. 

One egg, one cup of sugar well beaten with the egg, one- 
half cup boiling water, just before serving. Season to taste. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla enriches the blood. 



36 

CARAMELS, No. 1. 

Equal quantities of milk, sugar, molasses and chocolate. 
Pat a little butter into a kettle aud boil it like candy. 

CARAMELS, No. 2. 

One-half cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-halt 
cup of milk, one-half spoonful of Hour, butter one-half size 
of an egg, one-fourth of a pound of chocolate. Boil until 
hard, turn it into a pan, mark into squares. 

If you expect to save your teeth, use Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

ENGLISH GELATINE. 

To one paper of gelatine containing an ounce and a half, 
put a pint of cold water, after flfteen minutes add one quart 
of boiling water and stir until the gelatine is dissolved ; 
then add a coffee cup of sugar, juice of lemon, or any spice 
or essence preferred, and boil it a minute. If the jelly is 
for an invalid, omit the lemon and use two gills of wine 
after it is boiled. 

ORANGE GELATINE. 

One ounce Cox's gelatine dissolved in one pint of hot 
water. When cool, add the juice of six oranges and two 
lemons. Strain the whole through a fine sieve and let it 
partially harden, then l)eat up the whites of two eggs, add 
them to the mixture and beat the whole five minutes or 
more, till stitt'. Then put in a mould. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla is the best, strongest and cheapest. 

WINE JELLY, No. L 

To one paper Cox's gelatine add one pint of cold water, 
the juice and grated rind of two lemons, one pounded nut- 
meg and two or three sticks of cinnamon. Allow this to 
stand one hour, then add one quart of boiling water, one 
pint of wine — Sherry is much the best — one wineglass of 
brandy, two pounds of white sugar. When all is dissolved 
strain through a flannel jelly bag. 

Children like Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



37 

WINE JELLY, No. 2. 

One-third of a package of gelatine dissolved in a little 
cold water ; to this add a pint of hot water and let it come 
to a boil ; then put in two cups of sugar, one-half cup of 
wine or boiled cider, and nearly one tablespoonful of es- 
sence of lemon. Let cool till the next day. 

COFFEE CUSTARD. 
One pint of strong coftee, one pint of milk, boiled to- 
gether ; six eggs, beaten with a cup and a half of sugar. 
An agreealjle remedy to take : Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, two eggs, two and a half heaping 
tablespoonfuls of corn starch or maizena, two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated chocolate, six tablespoonfuls of sugar. Heat 
the milk almost to l)oiling —same as for soft custard. Beat 
the eggs, then add the corn starch and work it in till free 
from lumps ; then add the chocolate, then sugar, and wet 
the whole with cold milk — take sufficient milk besides the 
quart to have it thin enough to pour — then pour the whole 
into the hot milk and stir until about as thick as soft cus- 
tard. Let it cool a little and pour into glasses. 

CHOCOLATE CANDY. 

One cup grated chocolate, one cup milk, one cup molas- 
ses, butter size of an egg, one cup of sugar. Boil an hour. 
Have you ever tried Hood's Tooth Powder? 

TAPIOCA CREAMS, No. 1. 

Wash and soak over night two tablespoonfuls of tapioca 
in cold water, drain off the water in the morning ; beat the 
yolks of three eggs, mix them and the tapiocr. with a quart 
of milk, put on the stove and stir it, boil about two min- 
utes. Sweeten and flavor to taste. When nearly cold, 
add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff, stir in lightly and 
well. Serve in glass custard cups. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla, the best spring medicine. 



^38 
ARE YOU AWARE 

That in your blood the taint of scrofula has a prominent 
place? This is true of every one. It is liable at any time, 
on the slightest provocation, to develope itself in some 
insidious disease. Consumption and many other diseases 
are outgrowths of this impurity of the blood, HOOD'S 
SARSAPARILLA has a wonderful power over all scrofu- 
lous troubles, as the remarkable testimonials published 
unmistakably prove. 

Scrofulous Bunch In the Neck Remored. 

DraCLT Cextre, Oct. 13th, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Dear Sirs :— About the first of last June I began to be troubled 
with a scrofula bunch on my neck, Avhich so rapidly increased in size 
th:it I became alarmed. Knowing of a bad case of scrofula that had 
been cured with Hood's Sarsaparilla, I determined to give it a trial. 
I commenced taking the Sarsaparill.t, and at the end of a week I 
found the bunch very much reduced. I continued using the Sarsapa- 
rilla until the bottle was finished, and by that time the bunch had 
almost entirely disappeared— being about the size of a pea. 1 think 
one more bottle will entirely cure me. I take great pleasure in add- 
ing my testimonial to the many remarkable ones vou are receiving. 
Sincerely yours, MA&IA S. KIMBALL. 

*' We »re All Going to Take It." 

Lowell, July 24, 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen .-—Last May my attention was called to the remarkable 
cures of Hood's Sarsaparilla. My daughter at that time was suflfer- 
ing with the worst case of scrofulous humor I ever saw. For several 
months she had a sore on her side as large as a good-sized dinner 
plate, which discharged a watery matter, which would dry and form 
a crust during the night. She was obliged to protect it by linen 
pinned to her clothing. Some nights it would itch so intensely she 
could not sleep. I got a bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla and a box of 
Hood's Olive Ointment, and gave her half a teaspoonful of the Sarsa- 
parilla three times a day, after eating, and appued the Ointment at 
night. We followed this course faithfully ; in ten days it began to 
improve, and in five weeks it was entirely healed. The Ointment 
relieved the itching instantly. The dose being so small, it did not 
prove an expensive remedy, as one bottle performed the above cure. 
She will continue to trtke it through the summer and fall. I want 
two bottles; one for my sister, the other for myself and daughter, for 
•we are all going to tike it. Yours, «S;c.,. Mrs. J. H. CONANT, 

144 Merrimack Corporation, Colburn Street. 



Hood's Tooth Powder preserves the teeth. 



39 

TAPIOCA CREAMS, No. 2. 

Cover three tablespoonfuls of tapioca over night with 
water ; pour off the water, if any, and put into one quart 
of milk over the fire ; when it boils stir in the yolks of 
three eggs, two-thirds cup of sugar, a little salt, stir till it 
begins to thicken. Make a frosting of the whites of the 
eggs and spread over the top, sprinkle a little sugar over 
it and brown in the oven. 

A Georgia girl says Hood's Tooth Powder is the best. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, No. 1. 

One-half pint of thick cream whipped to a froth, the whites 
of two eggs beaten to a froth, one cup of water with two 
spoonfuls of gelatine dissolved in it; sweeten to taste and 
flavor with vanilla or lemon. One loaf sponge cake, take 
a deep dish, line the dish with small strips of this cake, and 
pour the cream into the middle of the dish, put writing 
paper on the bottom of the dish. Let it remain until 
hardened, turn it out on a flat dish. 

This is a good time to take Hood's Sarsaparilla. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, No. 2. 

Add six eggs well beaten to one quart boiling milk, one 
coffee cup of sugar, a bit of salt ; flavor to suit the taste 
with vanilla and a little brandy, then add one box of gela- 
tine dissolved in a pint of water. Set it away to cool and 
when it becomes the consistency of thick custard, add a 
pint of cream well beaten to a light froth. The gelatine 
must be warm when added to the custard, otherwise the 
jelly will be in lumps. Line the mould with small pieces 
of sponge cake, rill and put in a cool place. 

VELVET CREAM, No. 1. 

One box of gelatine with a teacup of wine poured over it ; 
set this over a teakettle of boiling water until dissolved ; one 
quart of cream sweetened with a coffee cup of sugar, into this 
pour dissolved gelatine, strain and pour i n moulds to harden. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole System. 



40 

VELVET CREAM, No. 2. 

Put one-half box of gelatine in one quart of milk, with 
the yolks of three eggs, on the stove; stir until it comes 
to a soft custard. When cold beat the whites of the eggs 
to a froth, add six tablespoonfuls of white sugar, one of 
flavoring, and stir in the mixture. 

Make your cliildren clean their teeth with Hood's Tooth 
Powder. 

LEMON JELLY. 

One quart of water, four tablespoonfuls of corn starch, 
one coffee cup white sugar, flavor to taste with lemon. 
Dissolve the sugar in the lemon, also the starch ; cook as 
you would for boiled custards ; when cooked turn into an 
earthen dish ; let cool and then slip it into a platter. Beat 
the white of one e^^^g with two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
spread this over the top of the jelly, put in the oven and 
brown slightly. Serve with cream and sugar. 

CHOCOLATE CREAMS. 

Take half a cake of unsweetened chocolate, grate and 
set over the teakettle ; while hot, drop in the cream moulds, 
which are made of two cups of sugar and half a cup of 
water ; boil three minutes ; after it begins to bubble remove 
from the stove and flavor with vanilla, stir until cold 
enough to make into moulds ; after the chocolate is added 
put tiiera on buttered paper to harden. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures scrofulous humors. 

A DISH OF SNOW. 

Select very juicy apples, pare and core them, stew them 
in clear water until soft ; strain tlirough a sieve, sweeten 
to tase with powdered sugar. Spread this when cold in a 
deep glass dish. To every apple allow the white of one 
egg ; beat the whites — with a tablespoonful of powdered 
sugar to one egg — to a stiff froth, and pour it over the 
apples. Any flavoring may be used. 



Thousands praise Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



The Lowell Daily Courier of June 3(1, 1876, says Hood's 
Sarsaparilla "is fast growing into use, and doing much good. 
This is no 'patent medicine,' but a preparation of a -standard 
article for specific diseases, and its effect is said to be very 
marked. The testimonials which they give are bona fide from 
parties who have used the preparation, and cheerfully give 
their testimony as to its worth. Those afflicted with scrofula, 
biliousness or general debility should try this remedy. Hood 
& Co. are careful and experienced pharmacists, and their pre- 
parations can be relied on." 



At this season most people are benefited by taking a 
Tonic, Alterative and Blood-Purifying Remedy, and we 
recommend, with entire confidence, 

HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA 

as being the remedy which combines these very properties in 
an agreeable and effectual form. 

SEVEEAL CASES OF SALT EHEUM, 

of many years standing, which had been exceedingly trouble- 
some, and for which almost everything in the shape of medi- 
cines had been tried without permanent benefit, were cured 
by the use of 

Hood's Sarsaparilla Internallyt and Hood's 
Olive OitiUnent Eoctemally, 

The intense itching and the dryness and heat of skin 
peculiar to this disease are instantly relieved by Hood's Olive 

Ointment. 



Prepared only by the Proprietors, 

CHAS. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

BARRISTERS' HALL, LOWELL, MASS. 

[rkad next pagk.] 



42 



ICE CREAM, No. 1. 

One quart of new milk, one quart of cream, four eggs, 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar. Boil the milk, and add 
eggs and sugar -well beaten together. When cold add 
flavoring and freeze. 

ICE CREAM, No. 2. 

One quart of cream, one pint of milk, one cup of sugar ; 
flavor to taste. Beat the cream to a froth ; stir in the milk 
and sugar thoroughly and freeze. 

Worthy of notice : Hood's Tooth Powder. 

FROSTING. 

Whites of two eggs beaten to a froth; add a cup of 
sugar and tablespoonful of powdered starch. 

CHOCOLATE FROSTING. 

Two squares of chocolate, one and a half cups of sugar, 
one-half cup of boiling water. Let it boil fifteen minutes. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

Dissolve one-third of a box of gelatine in three-fourths 
of a quart of milk for one hour, then put on the stove, 
and when boiling, stir in the yolks of three eggs beaten 
with three-fourths of a cup of sugar; when it is boiling 
hot remove from the fire, and stir in the whites of three 
eggs well beaten. Flavor to taste; pour in moulds. 

Hood's Tooth Powder neutralizes the ofl*ensive secre- 
tions of the mouth. 

FRICANDELLES. 

Take cold beef, veal, or any other meat, the more variety 
the better, hash it tine, and mix with it two eggs, a little 
grated onion, melted butter, two crackers pounded, pep- 
per, salt. Form into balls and fry in butter. Serve with 
drawn butter flavored with lemon. 



Invest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder. 



43 

SPICED BEEF. 

Five pounds of the shank, boiled five hours, with celery 
seed. Drain off the gelatine then, and chop the meat very 
fine, add pepper and salt to taste, and put it into a cloth, 
on a platter. Cover it with the cloth and press it. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla works wonders in the blood. 

SPICED BEEF, To Serve Hot. 

Fry three or four slices of pork a light brown ; then lay 
in the beef (the round is good for this purpose) in one 
piece. Let it brown a little on both sides ; then cover it 
with water, and let it stew over a moderate fire four or 
five hours in a covered kettle. Add water when it boils 
away to make gravy. About half an hour before it is 
done, salt and pepper it to taste ; add one teaspoonful of 
sweet marjoram, and if agreeable, one-half of an onion 
sliced. Pour the gravy over the beef when serving it. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Heat three gills of milk with a dessert spoonful of butter 
in it ; beat thoroughly four or five eggs ; wet a tablespoon- 
ful of flour and a teaspoonful of salt in a little cold milk. 
Mix the eggs with the flour and cold milk, then add the 
hot milk, stirring fast. Bake in a quick oven fifteen or 
twenty minutes. 

Hood's Tooth Powder prevents the accumulation of 
tartar. 

VEAL LOAF. 

Take three and one-half pounds of veal, fat and lean, 
one thick slice of fat salt pork ; chop the whole raw ; take 
six common crackers pounded fine, two eggs, one-half 
cup of butter, one tablespoonful of pepper, a little clove, 
and any herb to suit the taste. Mix all well together, and 
make into a loaf like bread ; put into a shallow baking pan 
with a little water, cover with bits of butter, and dredge 
flour over it; bake slowly two hours, basting it as you 
would meat. This is nice cut in thin slices for a tea dish, 
and it will keep good for some time. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla invigorates the aged. 



44 

Mipstion M DeMlity Penanently Cnrel 

Messrs. C. I. HOOD & CO. 

Gentlemen :— Seriously oppose<i to all patent medicines, it was 
after a great deal of talk that I was persuaded to try Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla for my wife, who has been troubled with in<ligestion and 
debility for several years, which had really rendere<i her feeble. 
Finally I was induced, faithlessly, to try one bottle of Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. Before she had taken all of this her health commenced to 
improve. She is now taking the fourth bottle, and her health has 
steadily and permanently improved, and I firmly believe Hood's 
Sarsaparilla is entitled to the credit, and I most cheerfully and con- 
fidently recommend it to anv and all suflfering. 

GEO. W. BOSWORTH. 

Amherst, N. H., Sept. IS, 1877. 



HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA is a comljination of 
remedies whose special adaptation to the cure of scrofula 
and cleansing the blood of impurities has been thoroughly 
proven by time and trial. 

HUMOR IN TH^NOSE CURED. 

":Plestsa,rLt to Tetls.o." 

Lowell, Mass., Oct. 1, 1877. 
Messrs. C. l hood & CO. 

Dear Sirs :— Last fall my boy had a humor develop itself around 
his finger nails which would fester up, become very sore and the nail 
come off; finally it left his fingers and went to his nose, first inside, 
and at last reaching down on the outside of the nostril, near the lip. 
We used various remedies without benefit. His general health be- 
came very much impaire«l. I went to my family physician (Dr. 
Green), and he ordered sarsaparilla. I got a bottle of your make 
(Hood's Sarsaparilla) and^in five or six weeks it began to heal and 
continued to steadily till entirely well, and his sickly, puny look 
changed to one of vigor and health. He has taken it most of the 
time since, as 1 am desirous of eradicating this humor entirely from 
his blood. It is exceedingly comment latory of your Sarsaparilla 
that it is so pleasant to take that he really likes it and will call for it. 
Very truly yours, 

JOHN G. ROGERS. 

(Firm of Stiles, Rogers & Co., Flour, Grain, &c., Market Street.) 

Hood's Tooth Powder is perfectly safe. 



45 

OMELET. 

Six eggs ; beat the yolks and whites separately, one 
table-spoonful flour, mix smoothly with a little milk, a 
little salt, one small teacup sweet milk. Beat all thor- 
oughly together, adding the whites last. Pour into a 
buttered spider; when partly done, double it like a turn- 
over. 

OMELET SOUFFLE. 

One pint sweet milk, made boiling hot, one cup of flour, 
mixed very smoothly in a little cold milk, one spoonful 
sugar, piece of butter size of a walnut. Stir all into the 
boiling milk till it is quite still" (this can be done early in 
the morning.) When cool stir in the yolks of live eggs, 
thoroughly beaten, adding the whites last, also thoroughly 
beateu. Bake half an hour. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla gives an appetite. 

HODGE PODGE. 

Four quarts chopped green tomatoes, one quart chopped 
onions, one cofteo cup chopped green peppers, one coflFee 
cup white mustard seed, one cotfee cup salt. Put the salt 
on the tomatoes and let stand over night ; drain them and 
add the other ingredients. Cover the whole with cold, 
sharp vinegar. 

FOR CURING TONGUE OR BEEF. 

One-half ounce of potash, one-half ounce saltpetre, one 
pound brown sugar, one and a half pounds of rock salt. 
For twenty-five or thirty pounds. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used by every one. 

PICKLE FOR HAM. 

Four gallons water, six pounds salt, two, and a half 
pounds of sugar, two and a half ounces saltpetre. Boil 
and skim the pickles ; put the hams in when perfectly 
cold; let them remain in the pickle six weeks. This is 
suflicient for fifty or sixty pounds. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla works wonders in the blood. 



HOOD'S 



The Best Family Salve, 

ONLY 2Z CENTS A BOX. 



The Soothing and Healing effects of Hood's 
Olive Ointment are surprising. It has been thoroughly 
tried and has secured the highest praise, as is proved by 
the many testimonials offered us. 



HOOD'S OLIVE OINTMENT 

Cures Cuts, Burns, Flesh Wounds, 

Inflammation, Sore Nipples, Chilblains, 
Salt Rheum, Chapped Lips and Hands, 
Bruises, Broken Breasts, Festers, 
Pimples, Corns, Boils, and all 

Cutaneous Diseases and Eruptions. 

IS MADE ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 
OPPOSITE POST OFFICE, - ■ - LOWELL, MASS 



47 



TO STUFF AND BAKE FISH. 

Soak bread in cold water until soft ; drain it, mash it fine, 
and mix the bread with a spoonful of drawn butter, a little 
salt and pepper (two raw eggs make the dressing cut 
smoother), and some spices if liked. Fill and sew up the 
fish ; put a teacup of water in a bake pan, and a little but- 
ter ; place in the fish and bake about forty or fifty minutes. 
Bass, shad and fresh cod are good fish for baking. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla builds up the system while it eradi- 
cates disease. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

Put one quart oysters and one-half pint water into a tin 
pail and set it into a kettle of boiling water ; let it boil till 
the oysters are cooked, then strain, putting the oysters 
into a soup tureen and the liquor back into the pail, and 
add to it one pint milk, set in water as before, and heat 
boiling hot, seasoning with salt and pepper. Add to the 
oysters a piece of butter the size of an egg;- lastly pour 
the hot liquor on the oysters. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Four eggs, one tablespoonful of sugar, two of ])utter, 
one of salt, two of vinegar, one of mustard ; beat the 
whites of the eggs separately and add last. Cook in a 
bowl set in a kettle of water, stirring until it thickens. 
\Yhen cold add cream enough to make as thin as boiled 
custard. Add salt and red pepper to the chopped lobster 
and lettuce. 

Invest 25 cents in a bottle of Hood's Tooth Powder. 

STEWED LOBSTER. 

Cut the lobster in pieces about an inch square. Place 
them in a stew pan, and over them pour a cup of water ; 
put in butter the size of an egg, pepper and salt to the 
taste. Mix also with it the green dressing of the lobster, 
and stir it about ten minutes over the fire. Just before 
taking off* add two wineglasses of port or sherry. Let it 
scald, but not boil. 

True testimonials on another page as to Rood's S<:wsai>arilla. 



48 



Why Suffer with Salt Rheum? 



Messrs. C. I. HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. 

(Gentlemen :— I was a great sufferer from Salt Rheiini on my limbs, 
for a dozen years previous to the summer of 1876, at which time I was 
cured by Hood's Sartaparilla. The skin would become dry, chap, 
crack open, bleed and itch intensely, so that I could not help scratch- 
ing, which of course made them worse. At the time I commenced 
taking Hood's Sarsaparilla (in the summer of 1876), they were so 
bad that they discharged, and I was obliged to keep them bandaged 
with linen cloths. The skin was drawn so tight by the heat of the 
disease that if I stooped over they would crack open and actually 
bring tears into my eyes. The first bottle benefited me so much that 
I continued taking it till I was cured. I used one box of Hood's Olive 
Ointment, to relieve the itching. Hoping many others may learn the 
value of Hood's Sarsaparilla and receive as much benefit as I have, 
I am. Very truly yours, 

MRS. S. S. MOODY, 

Lowell, Mass., January 15th, 1878. No. 75 Broadway. 



FROxM THE 

*^ IfOwell Daily Citizen and New 8,*' 



*' The enterprising firm of Hood & Co. are doing a 
rushing business in HOOD'S SARSAPARILLA and 
HOOD'S TOOTH POWDER, both well known and ap- 
preciated by thousands who have tested their efficacy 
The Sarsaparilla has effected wonderful cures, not only 
in this city, but in various parts of New England, where 
its merits are as well known as here." 



Hood's Tooth Powder is in everybody's mouth. 



49 



LOBSTER SAUCE. 

Boil two eggs three minutes ; mix with them a tea- 
spoonful of water and the spawn of the lobster; rub 
smooth and stir in a teaspoonful of mustard, six spoon- 
fuls of drawn butter or salad oil, a little pepper and salt, 
and live spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut the Lobster into very 
small pieces, and stew it till tender. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla gives tone to the stomach. 

PICKLED PEACHES. 

One-half peck peaches, two pounds brown sugar, one 
ounce stick cinnamon, one pint vinegar. Boil sugar and 
vinegar together twenty minutes. Put peaches in hot 
water for an instant, and on taking them out rub the fur 
off with a coarse towel; now stick four cloves in each 
peach, then put them in the syrup and boil till tender. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

Sprinkle a buttered dish with bread or cracker crumbs, 
then put in a layer of oysters, some bits of butter, a little 
pepper and very little salt, and so on until the dish is full, 
leaving crumbs and butter on the top. Pour over the top 
a little wine. Bake until a light brown. 

Hood's Tooth Powder gives the gums a bright, healthy 
color. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select the largest, dip them in beaten egg, and then in 
bread or cracker crumbs ; fry in equal parts of butter and 
lard until they are brown. They are very good dipped in 
corn meal instead of crumbs. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 

One quart vinegar, one ounce of allspice, one-half ounce 
of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves, one ounce of mace; 
scald all together ; when cold put in the oysters ; next 
day scald together. 

Koio is the time to try Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



50 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Boil, bone and chop fine three chickens; use chopped 
celery ; take equal quantities of meat and salad and mix 
with the following dressing : yolks of three eggs, stir 
them with a fork, then stir in slowly a cup of melted but- 
ter ; do not put in faster than will mingle nicely. Salt to 
taste, and add a teaspoonful of powdered sugar, a cup of 
vinegar and a pinch of red pepper. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla cures scrofulous humor. 

SALAD CREAM DRESSING. 

One even tablespoonful dry mustard, one teaspoonful 
salt, one teaspoonful powdered sugar; scald with hot 
water enough to mix. Pour in the oil slowly, beating all 
the time, drop in all tht oil it will contain, put in three 
unbeaten eggs and beat all together ; now add one-half cup 
of vinegar and then two-thirds cup milk ; put over the lire 
and bring to a boil by water bath, stirring constantly. 
Strain if you wish. 

COFFEE. 

The best coffee is made from Mocha and Java, mixed. 
To a pint of coffee add a gallon of water and three eggs. 

Decorate your mouth with pearly teeth by using Hood's 
Tooth Powder. 

MEAD. 

Three pounds of white sugar ; pour three pints of boil- 
ing water over it, one pint of molasses, one-fourth pound 
tartaric acid, one ounce of sassafras. To be bottled and 
used as a syrup with soda. 

FLAX SEED TEA. 

Put to two ta])lespoonfuls whole flax seed a pint of 
boiling water, and boil fifteen minutes ; cut up one lemon 
and put in a pitcher with two tablespoonfuls of sugar. 
Strain the tea boiling hot through a wire strainer into the 
pitcher and stir together. Good for cough and sore throat. 



Hood's Tooth Powder removes tartar from the teeth. 



51 

BOILED CIDER. 

Take four gallons of cider and boil it to one gallon. 
SHAKER, OR BOILED CIDER APPLE SAUCE. 

For one bushel of sweet apples use one gallon of boiled 
cider ; put the cider into a brass or tin boiler, wash and 
drain the apples, then put them into the boiler and cover 
tight. If the boiler will hold one bushel of apples, two 
hours should be given for cooking. Care should be taken 
that they do not cling to the boiler or scorch ; cook very 
slow over a moderate heat, but steady ; do not stir them 
while cooking. 

To remove all humors of the blood use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. 

HOOD'S RASPBERRY VINEGAR 

Should be used at every picnic, in every sick room, and on 
every sideboard, because it quenches thirst at once. It 
forms with ice water a refreshing, healthful beverage, and 
its delicious flavor is especially appreciated by invalids. 
Physicians prescribe it. Prepared only by C. I. Hood & 
Co., opposite Postoflice, Lowell, Mass. 

RIPE CUCUMBER PICKLE. 

Take large yellow cucumbers, pare them, take out the 
cores and soak in salt water two days. Then take them 
out of the brine, pour over them boiling water, and let 
them stand over night. Pour off this water and they are 
ready for the pickle, which prepare thus : For each quart 
of sharp vinegar, take one pint of hot water, two large 
cups of sugar, and one tablespoonful each of the follow- 
ing spices : cinnamon, cloves, allspice, black pepper, mace 
or nutmeg. Add a handful of raisins or ripe grapes. 
Scald all together and boil until the cucumbers are easily 
penetrated with a fork. Use as little of the vinegar as 
possible to boil them in, and pour the rest over them when 
done. 

SWEET PICKLE. 

Seven pounds of fruit, two pounds of sugar, one quart 
of vinegar, two ounces of cassia buds or cloves. 

We know Hood's Sarsaparilla is worth your trial. 



5l> 

THOSE PEOPLE 

Who are suffering from scrofulouH sores are 
specially requested to read Miss Whittier's tes- 
timonial on page 23 of Hood's Cook Book. 



A FARMER IN VERMONT 
Who had a CANCER CUT OUT some years 
ago, tells us that he can do double the work 
when he takes Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



"EAT, SLEEP AND V/ORK." 
A carpenter out of health and seriously 
troubled with blood-shot eyes and inflamed lids, 
tells us : " Hood's Sarsaparilla has done every- 
thing for me ; can eat, sleep and work now, 
and my eyes are nearly well." 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

LOWELL, MASS. 
Trinl Size, 50 cenU ; large bottles, $1.00. 



HoocVs Tooth Powder whitens the teeth. 



63 

GREEX CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

For a half bushel cucumbers, take a pint of coarse salt, 
dissolve in water enough to cover the cucuui))ers, pour it 
boiling hot upon them, let them stand twenty-four hours, 
pour the brine off, and reheat two successive mornings. 
The fourth morning drain ofl' the brine, and pour on boiling 
water; let them stand twenty-four hours, then if the 
cucumbers are not tilled out plump, pour in boiling water 
again. When the cucumbers are all filled out plump they 
are ready for the vinegar. Place them in the jar in which 
they are to be kept, and as they are packed place in little 
bags containing whole allspice, cloves, cinnamon and 
mustard. Put a little horse-radish root among the cucum- 
bers. Heat vinegar enough to cover the cucumbers, Avith 
a piece of alum dissolved in it, pour it over them boil- 
ing hot. Cover tight. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla imparts new life to all the functions 
of the l)odv. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Seven pounds currants, four pounds sugar, one pint 
vinegar (if of average strength), one tablespoonful of 
cinnamon, one tablespoonful of cloves, one teaspoonful 
allspice. Give it two hours or more slow boiling. 

PICKLED APPLES. 

One quart vinegar, six cups brown sugar, one teaspoon- 
ful each of cloves, cinnamon, allspice ; boil vinegar and 
sugar together, skim it, then add the spices. Boil in this 
syrup sweet apples cut in halves and not pared, till soft, 
but not till they break. 

TOMATO KETCHUP. 

Eight quarts of strained tomato, six tablespoonfuls of 
black pepper, six tablespoonfuls of salt, four tablespoon- 
fuls mustard, one tablespoonful ground cloves, one table- 
spoonful yellow ginger, one quart vinegar, one-half cup 
of brown sugar, one tumbler of brandy. Boil very slowly 
until tlie quantity is reduced nearly one-half. Put into 
bottles. 

HoocVs Sarsaparilla gives life ami vigor to the iceak. 



54 

The proprietors of Hood's Sarsaparilla take 
great pleasure in hearing of the remarkable cures 
effected by the use of their Sarsaparilla. Yester- 
day we were told of a young lady who had 
been a great sufferer for several years with a 
TEBRIBLE^ SCllOFULOUS SORE ON 
HER LEG, Six bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla has 
entirely cured it ; and any one liaving a similar 
affliction can ap])reciate how hapi)y she is now. 
An elderly lady who has been and is still a 
great sufferer from one of these awful scrofulous 
sores or ulcers on her leg, which seems more like 
a cancer than anything, tells us that she has used 
half a bottle — in one-half teaspoonful doses — her 
general health is very much better, the discharge 
from her sore has not been so offensive since the 
first week after taking Hood's Sarsaparilla ; 
sleeps better nights; her food does not distress 
her as Ixjfore, and when the sore bleeds the 
blood has a bright, healthy color, and before it 
was verv black and thick. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared ouly by 

C. I. HOO(b & CO.^ = = Apothecaries, 

I^OAVELL, IVIASS. 
Trial size, 50 cents; large bottles, $1.00. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is delightful to use. 



55 

TOMATO CHOW CHOW. 

Slice one peck green tomatoes, six green peppers, four 
onions ; stir in a cup of salt and let them remain over 
night. Then pour off the water, put them in a kettle with 
A'inegar enough to cover them. Add one cup of grated 
horse-radish, one tablespoonful of cloves, one tablespoon- 
ful of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of allspice, one cup of 
sugar ; cook until soft. 

Scrofula and salt rheum have been cured by Hood's 
Sarsaparilla. 

TOMATO PICKLE. 

One gallon sliced tomatoes, the greener the better ; salt 
them in layers, and let them stand overnight ; in the morn- 
ing drain them well ; slice four large onions ; put a layer 
of tomatoes in the vessel, then a few slices of onion ; pro- 
ceed in this manner until they are all put in ; cut six green 
peppers very tine and spread over the top ; take one table- 
spoonful black pepper, one tablespoonful allspice, two 
tablespoonfuls of cloves, three tablespooufuls mustard ; 
put in a bag and boil in the vinegar till the strength is 
extracted, then put the bag on the top of the pickles, pour 
on boiling vinegar enough to cover them. Cover the ves- 
sel tightly and let it stand three weeks without opening. 

CITRON PICKLE. 

Pare and cut citron into such pieces as you like ; boil in 
water with a very small piece of alum, until tender, then 
drain ; boil together for ten minutes three quarts of vin- 
egar, four pounds of sugar and one-fourth pound of cassia 
buds ; put in the citron and boil five minutes. 

Hood's Tooth Powder is praised by everybody. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Six large, ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, one onion, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of salt, one 
and a half cups strong vinegar ; chop peppers and onions ; 
boil one hour. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla sharpens the appetite. 



56 

Chelsea, Vt., Sept., 1877. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell. 

Dear Sirs :— I have used Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Powder 
in my practice for several years and can assure tlie ])ublic that it is 
an article wortliy their entire confidence. It conibines all the 
materials requisite for a safe and efticacious dentifrice, put together 
in such a manner as to cleanse the teeth thoroughly, harden the 
gums, and give them a bright color, and its delightful ftagrance 
leaves a peculiar, refreshing sweetness in the mouth. 
*• Respectfully yours, 

O. M. RICE, Dentist. 



SCIENTIFIC EXAMINATIONS PROVE 

Hood's Sapoiiaeeoiis Toofli Powder 

The most eftectnal in destroying tlie animal and vesretable 
parasitic animalcula', which are tlie cause of decay and are 
found to exist on nearly all teeth. 

Hood's Tooth Powdkr is so happily put up as to offer 
to every one the means for cleansing, beautifying and pre- 
serving their teeth and gums, at small expense. The 
peculiar sweetness it imparts to the breath, and the 
delightful cool sensation it leaves in the mouth, render its 
use exceedingly pleasant. The assurances of its entirely 
harmless nature, which we give from eminent men, should 
be sufficient to satisfy any reasonable mind. 

Hood's Tooth Powder receives the sanction and 
patronage of the most eminent of the dental and medical 
faculty. 

Hood's Tooth Powder should be used by every man, 
woman and child, for good health depends upon cleanli- 
ness, and where is its necessity more apparent than in the 
mouth? 

Hood's Tooth Powdkk is sold everywhere in large 
bottles at 25 cents. 



PREPARED ONLY BV 

C, I. HOO(b & CO., = = Apothecaries, 



57 

CLARA'S CORN CAKE— NICE. 

Butter size of an egg, tablespoouful sugar, two eggs, 
beat to a cream ; not quite a quart of milk ; flour to make 
as thick as sponge cake, tlieu add a large handful of 
Indian meal ; two teaspoonfuls yeast powder in the flour 
before mixing. 

IMPERIAL CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour,, 
one pound raisins, one-half pound almonds, one-half 
pound citron, very little soda, eight eggs, mace to taste, 
wineglass of wine. 

FRUIT CAKE— EXTRA. 

One pound butter, one pound sugar, one pound flour, 
two pounds currants, two pounds raisins, one-half pound 
citron, eight eggs, one-half cup molasses, soda size of 
pea dissolved in molasses, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon and 
cloves to suit taste, wineglass of brandy. 

HEARTS AND ROUNDS. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, three cups 
flour, five eggs, two even teaspoonfuls cream tartar, one 
even teaspoonful soda, citron. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
RIBBON CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one cup of sweet milk, three cups of flour, one 
teaspoonful of saleratus dissolved in the milk, add a little 
salt and flavor with essence of lemon or almond. Put 
half the al)Ove in two square oblong pans. To the 
remainder add one tablespoouful of molasses, one large 
cup of raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of a pound 
of citron sliced, one teaspoonful cinnamon, lialf a tea- 
spoonful each clove and allspice, grate in a little nutmeg 
and add one spoonful of flour. Put into two pans of the 
same size and shape as those above. Put the sheets 
together while warm, alternately, with a little jelly or 
raspberry jam between. Cut in thin slices for the table. 
It will cut most easily the day after it is baked. It may 
be baked in one large pan without the fruit, pouring in the 
dark and light in alternate layers. When baked thus it is 
a handsome marble cake. 

HooiVs Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole system. 



58 

A lady having a CANCEROUS HUMOR IN 

THE STOMACH is using Hood's Sarsaparilla, 
and tells us sl\e is very mucli encouraged, and 
thinks it is doing Iier a great deal of good. She is 
now taking the second bottle. A young lady who 
had been a great sufferer from PAIN IN THE 
BONES of lier arm and shoulder and through her 
lungs, her general health very j)oor, no appetite, 
and her friends feared slie was going into a decline, 
as her family have died of consumption, has taken 
nearly two bottles Hood's Sarsaparilla; has no pain 
now, has a good appetite and is steadily imi)roving. 
We could add to these, remarkable as they may 
seem, almost an infinite number, if we would note 
them down as one after another, in their gratitude 
for the relief and benefit received, tell us their 
story. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla is prepared only by 

C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

LOWELL, MASS. "* 

Trial size, 50 cents; large bottle$, $1.00. 



Hood's Sarsaparilla restores jlesh ; see page 25. 



59 
What Lowell Dentists say of 

Hood's Tooth Powder, 



Lowell, Mass., Jan. 18, 1878. 

Gentlemen: — We have made a critical examination of 

Hood's Saponaceous Tooth Powder, and can assure the 

public that it does not contain anything that can possibly 

injure the teeth, either mechanically or chemically. 

Very truly yours, 

G. A. GERRY, Five Cent Savings Bank Block. 

A. T. JOHNSON, Wentworth's Block. 
G. A. W. VINAL, Wentworth's Block. 
C. T. CLIFFORD, Stott's Block. 

W. H. DOWNS, Fiske's Block. 

B. HEALD, 523^ Merrimack Street. 
E. M. NELSON, 84 Merrimack Street. 

To Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 



Hands that Crack Open and Bleed Cured. 



A few days since a lady, wiiile buying her third bottle of Hood's 
Sarsaparilla, rcniax-ked : " Without any expect:Uion that your Sar- 
saparilla would help my hands, from which I have suflered exceed- 
ingly for many years, of Salt Rheum, which would cause them to 
itch terribly, dry up, finally crack open and bleed, I bought a bottle 
at the earnest solicitation of my husband, who had known of Mrs. 
Moody's wonderful (;ure. (See page 48.) You can hardly imagine 
my delight when they begati to heal. Before I commenced the 
second bottle they were entirely well, and have not troubled me 
since. I shall continue to t;ike it till I have used six bottles, for I 
want to purify my blood thoroughly, and I have an immense amount 
of faith in Hood's Sarsaparilla now, and with good reason." 



Hood's Tooth Powder removes tartar from the teeth. 



60 



You should gladly send a testimonial of the benefits 
you have received from the use of Hood's Sarsaparilla to 
C. I. Hood & Co., Lowell, Mass. 

First, because it is a duty you owe to others who are 
now suflering as you were before you found relief in this 
valuable remedy. 

Second, because there are so many worthless remedies 
puffed up by bogus certificates, that the fact that there is 
one of real worth is of great importance to the public. 



135 Howard St., Lowell, Mass., Jan. 17, 1878. 
Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. 

Gentlemen :— I have used Hood's Sarsaparilla in my family for 
Scrofulous Humor with wonderful success and am very happy to tell 
yon that it is the best medicine we ever used. I do sincerely advise 
any one who is troubled with Scrofula to give this valuable remedy 
a trial and assure them they will not be disappointed. 

Very truly yours, 
(Coburu Shuttle Co.) C. C. PICKERING. 



Pimpte on tlie Face Reiiiovei 

Mt. Washington St., Jan. 17th, 1878. 
Gentlemen :— 

Last summer I got a bottle of Hood's Sarsaparilla for my 
son, who has been very much troubled with pimples on his face, 
which came to a white fester on the top. While using this bottle 
they came freer, but before he had finished it they entirely disap- 
peareil and have not returned. I cheerfully recommend Hood's 
Sarsaparilla as a reliable medicine. 

Very truly yours, 

ALEXANDER ANDERSON. 



NO TICE. — If you have Hood's Cook 
Book, please give this to your neighbor, 

INDEX. 



YEAST AND BREAD. 

Yeast, 5 

Brown Bread, •*> 

Bread, 7 

BREAKFAST & TEA CAKES. 

Breakfast Cakes 8 

Muffins, 8 

Corn Cake, 8 

Jokers, '. 10 

Jennie Lunges, 8 

Buckwheat Cakes 10 

Rye Cakes, 7 

Parker House Rolls, 8 

Scrofula, 2.3 

Graham Rolls, 10 

Rolls, 10 

Jennie's Sally Lund Gems, 11 

Newport Cakes, 10 

Jenny Lind Drop Cakes, 11 

Pop bvers, 12 

Oat Meal Cakes, 11 

Rye Breakfast Cakes, 11 

Gems, 12 

Apple Fritters, 12 

Appetite, 16, 2.5 

Clara's Corn Cake, 57 

CAKE. 

Mary Ann's Cream Cakes, 12 

Plain Dark Cake, 12 

Gold Cake, 12 

Salt Rheum (hands itch),.. .48, 59 

Silver Cake, 14 

Chocolate Cake 14, 15 

White Mountain Cake, 14 

Hermit Cakes, 15 

Cocoanu tCake, 11 



Marble Cake, 14 

Lily Cake 15 

Queen's Cake, 15 

Danburv, or Gold and Silver 

Cake,.' 15 

Indigestion and Debilitv, 

n", 2.5, 41, 44 

Raised Cake 17 

Sponge Cake, 17 

Corn Starch Cake, 17 

JellvCake, 20 

Buttermilk Cake 18 

Delicious Cake, 18 

Circle Cake, 18 

Molasses Gingerbread 21 

Hard Gingerbread, 21 

Ginger Snaps, 21 

Doughnuts, 21 , 22 

Pancakes 18 

Skeletons 20 

Raisin Cake, 21 

Election Cake, 17 

Buns 22 

Delicate Cake, 20 

Cookies, 22 

Hickory Nut Cake, 20 

Chapin Cake, 18 

Park Street Cake, 20 

Coflfee Cake, 18 

Are vou Aware, 38 

Tumbler Cake 20 

Wafers, 24 

Fruit Cake 24, 57 

Clove Cake, 24 

Lemon Cake, 24 

Hands Itch, 48 

Ice Cream Cake, 26 

New York Cup Cake, 26 

Imperial Cake 57 

Hearts and Rounds 57 

Ribbon Cake 57 

Wedding Cake 26 



Hood's Tooth Powder, the cheapest and best. 



62 

Sprioff Deliilitj; Laiipior, lassiMe, 

And that low state of the system peculiar to the 
spring season, are relieved by the 

Restoring, 

Renovating, 

Invigorating, 

Enriching, 

Appetizing and 

Tonitig Properties 

HOOD'S Sarsaparilla ! 

Trial Size, Fifty Cents. 

Ladies, when you need a remedy to vitalize and enrich 
your blood, to tone up your system, to renovate and 
restore all the functions of your body, use Hood's Sarsa- 
parilla. It has been eminently successful in all such 
cases, and will not disappoint you if you give it a fair 
trial. 

50 cents and $1.00 a Bottle, 



PREPARED ONLY BY 

C. I. HOOD & CO., APOTHECARIES, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 

Hood's Tooth Poicder gives to the teeth a pearly whiteness^ 
and to the gums a bright, healthy color. 



63 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 

Peach Pie, 28 

Cream Pies, 28, 30 

Cream or Cocoanut Pie, 28, 35 

Currant Wine Pie, 22 

Queen of Puddings, 20 

Four Fruit Pudding 27 

Suet Pudding, 28 

Orange Pudding, 27 

Lemon Pudding, 27 

Lemon Pie 30 

Raisin Pie, 30 

Delmont Pudding, 27 

Apple Puffs 31 

Gold and Silver Pudding, 31 

Plum Pudding, 33 

German Toast, 33 

Cottage Pudding, 28, 33 

Pudding Sauce, 30 

Rice Pudding, 31 

English Pudding, 33 

Salem Pudding, 35 

Cocoanut Pie, 35 

Victoria Fritters, 33 

Pudding Sauce, 30, 35 

Egg Sauce 35 

FANCY DISHES. 

Caramels, 36 

English Gelatine, 36 

Orange Gelatine, 36 

Coffee Custard, 37 

Chocolate Custard., 37 

Chocolate Candy, 37 

Wine Jelly, 36, 37 

Lemon Jelly, 40 

Charlotte Russe, 39 

Tapioca Cream, 37, 39 

Velvet Cream, 39, 40 

Spanish Cream, 42 

A Dish of Snow, 40 

Ice Cream 42 

Frosting, 42 

Chocolate Frosting, 42 

Chocolate Creams, 40 

Hood's Sarsaparilla, 

23, 29, 38, 44, 48, 52, 54, 60, 62 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

Soups 3, 4 

Spiced Beef, 43 

Spiced Beef— to serve hot 43 

Fricandelles, 42 

Baked Omelet, 43 

Omelet, 45 

Omelet Souffle, 45 

To Stuff and Bake Fi^h, 47 

Veal Loaf, 43 

For Curing Tongue or Beef,. . .45 
See what Lowell Dentists say,. 59 

Pickle for Ham, 45 

Chicken Salad, 50 

Lobster Salad, 47 

Stewed Lobster, 47 

Lobster Sauce, 49 

Scalloped Oysters 49 

Fried Ovsters, 49 

Pickled 'Oysters, 49 

Stewed Oysters, 47 

Salad Cream Dressing 50 

Boiled Cider, 51 

Shaker Apple Sauce, 51 

DRINKS. 

Coffee, 50 

Mead, 50 

Flax Seed Tea, 50 

Raspberry Vinegar 51 

PICItLES. 

Pickled Peaches, 49 

Ripe Cucumber Pickles, 51 

Green Cucumber Pickles, 53 

Spiced Currants 53 

Pickled Apples, 53 

Tomato Ketchup, 53 

Tomato Chow Chow 55 

Tomato Pickle 55 

Sweet Pickle 51 

Citron Pickle, 55 

Chili Sauce, 55 

Hodge Podge 45 

Hood's Tooth Powder 

4, 29, 56, 59, 64 



Ladies, remember that Hood's Sarsaparilla vitalizes and 
enriches the blood. 



64 



What leading Dentists say of 
Hood^s Tooth Powder. 



The following from Dr. Gerry, one of our leading den- 
tists, a graduate of the Boston Dental College, with 
twenty-five years -of practical experience, is worthy of 
consideration : 

Lowell, Mass., Sept. 2.5, 1877. 
Gentlemen :— 1 have made a critical examination of Hood's Sapo- 
naceous Tooth Powder, and can assure the public that it does not 
contain anything that can possibly injure the teeth, either mechani- 
cally or chemically. 

Verv trulv vours, 

e;. A. GERRY, D. D. S. 
To Messrs. C. I. Hood & Co. ..Lowell, Mass. 

One of the most successful dentists in Boston writes us 
as follows : 

Boston, Mass., Oct. 15, 1877. 
Messrs. C. L HOOD & CO., Lowell, Mass. 

My Dear Sirs :—r have used Hood's Tooth Powder in my family 
and recommended it to my patients for several years with excellent 
satisfaction to them and to myself. As a preserver and cleanser of 
thf, teeth it can not be suriiassed. My knowledge of the materials of 
which it is made enables me to assure the public that it is impossible 
for it to do any injury to the teeth or gums. It affords me much 
pleasure in commending it to all as a safe and effective dentifrice. 
Very trulv yours, 

THOMAS COGSWELL, I). D. S., 
Lawrence's Building, Tremont Street. 

This letter from Dr. Gerrish aflbrds us much satisfaction, 
and will inspire in the minds of all who have the 
pleasure of his acquaintance perfect confidence in Hood's 
Tooth Powder : 

ExETEK, N. H., September, 1877. 
JtfESSRS. C. L HOOD & CO., Lowell. 

Gentlemen :— It gives me much pleasure to commend Hood's Sapo- 
naceous Tooth Powder to the public. In my profession it has worked 
like a charm ; in mv family an<l aiuong my friends it has proved itself 
satisfactory in the highest possible degree. Delightful to use and so 
eflicacious'in cleansing the teeth and hardening the gums that I pre- 
dict for you a sale that" will rapidly increase as its real worth becomes 
more generally known. 

Very truly, 

CHARLES H. GERRISH, D. D. S. 

Every one having humors shonld try Hood's Sarsaparilla. 



SoodV ^kf Apki^illk 



CUKES SCROFULA, 

CURES SCROFULOUS HUMOR, 
CURES SALT RHEUM, 

CURES CANCEROUS HUMOR, 

CURES SCALD HEAD, 
CURES BOILS. 

CURES SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS, 
CURES PAIN IN THE BONES, 

CURES GENERAL DEBILITY, 

CURES FEMALE WEAKNESSES, 
CURES COSTIVENESS, 

CURES HEADACHE. 

Hood's Sarsaparilla purifies the Blood of all Humors. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla vitalizes and enriches the Blood. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla restores and renovates the whole 

system. 
Hood's Sarsaparilla stimulates and invigorates all the 

functions of the body. 

A peculiar point in Hood's Sarsaparilla is that it 
strengthens and builds up the system, while it eradicates 
disease, and as Nature's great assistant proves itself in- 
valuable as a protection from diseases that originate in 
changes of the seasons, of climate and of life. 



PREPARED ONLY BY 



C. I. HOOD & CO., Apothecaries, 

Barristers' Hall, Lowell, Mass. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 




