

PRICE 

10 CENTS 



iHliElIE,fiJlS!iEnE« 

CORCLARKANDADAMSSTS- 

^ : ^ CHI CAB 




THE LAKESIDE LIBRARY. -NEW BOOKS. 



The Testimony of an Eye-Witness. 

By Victor Hugo, Author, of "The Toilers of the 
Sea," "Nuiety-Three," etc. Parti, No. 140, 10 cents. 
Part II, No. 170. price, 5 cents. 

" It is impossible to enumerate all the vividly in- 
teresting chapters of these two eventful clays as 
they are here toiii; it must be enough to say that 
the book with its fulness oif detail and wonderful 
eloquence is a most important contribution to mod- 
ern history. All that took place then, is now more 
than a quarter of a century old, and has been passed 
upon by fate in a sure way; yet this account of it 
reads like what it is — an outburst of wrath, not 
merely with the past, but with those men who can 
dream of again betraying their country for their 
own adviiutage. • » • No novel can compare with 
it."— Atlantic Monthly. 

EREMA; or MY FATriER'S SIN. 

A Novel. By R. D. Blackmoue, Author of " Lor- 
na Doone," " The Maid of Sker," "Cripps, the Car- 
rier," etc. No. 180. Price, 80 cents. 

"The narrative of the destruction or Gundry's 
mill by a waterspout: the piteous confession to 
Eremaof old Castlewood's murder by his illegiti- 
mate son, and the fearful deatli of the latter and his 
mother wnen the angry sea broke into Bruntsea, 
have, perhaps, never been surpassed in intensity 
and power; and, indeed, all through the volume 
there are passages scattered which place tlie author 
In the front rank of fiction writers. The language 
throughout is chaste, and In many places forcible 
and eloquent, and a fresh and invigorating atmos- 
phere pervades the entire volume.— BoUimore Ga- 
zette. 

ROSE TURQUAND. 

By ELLiOB Hopkins. No. 68. Price 10 cents. 

" The tone of the book is pure and healthy. The 
character of the heroine is drawn with a firm, clear 
touch, and is noble."— Academy. London. 

"A tale of rare excellence, from the perusal of 
Which the reader will rise refreshed and invigor- 
ated,"— Court Journaf, London. 

THE MOONSTONE. 

By WiLKiB Collins; with 34 fine Illustrations- 
Nos. 146-147. Price 20 cents. 

"The carefully elaborate workmanship, and the 
wonderful construction of the story; the admirable 
manner in which every circumstance and incident 
Is fitted together, and the skill with which the secret 
Is kept to tlie last: so that, when all seems to have 
been discovered, there is a final light thrown upon 
people and things which gives them a significance 
they had not before."— Athenceum, London. 

The New Mag^daien. 

By WiLKiK Collins. No. 38. Price 10 cents. 

"•The New Magdalen' is equal to Mr. Collins' 
reputation. It is as remarkable in plot as any of the 
great novels which preceded it, and there is the same 
old skill in the delineation of character as before. 
Grace Roseberry is even a more remarkable heroine 
than the ' Woman in White.' "— JV. Y. Herald. 

The Treasure Hunters. 

By Gborok Manville Fenn. No. 6. Price 10 
cents. 

This vivacious and Interesting novel describes 
the adventures of an English family that went to 
California In the early days of the gold fever. It is 
full of striking incident and rollicking adventure 
from beginning to end. "Larry," the faithful ser- 
vant, is one of the best Irish characters to be found 
In any novel. His mistakes, his drolleries, and his 
fidelity and coolness in peril, will make him a fa- 
Torlte with all readers. 



THE HISTORY OF A CRIME: The Wreck of the " Grosvenor." 



An Account of the Mutiny of the Crew and the 
Loss of the Ship when Trying to Make the Bermo- 
das. No. 164. Price, 10 cents. 

" We do not hesitate to pronounce the book a fas- 
cinating one. It has all the attraction which belongs 
to stories of peril by sea, more peculiarly than to 
any other kind of adventure, and is also a very 
pretty and sympathetic love-story. It is admirably 
written in a clear and fluent style, which never per- 
mits the reader's attention to dag for a moment, and 
it abounds in descriptive passages full of force and 
color."— ^'pectator, London. 

Green Pastures and Piccadilly. 

A Novel. By William Black, Author of " Mad- 
cap Violet," "A Princess of Thule," etc. No. 16(1. 
Price. 1.5 cents. 

"Mr. Black excels as a writer of stories. He has 
the faculty of constructing a graceful and interest- 
ing narrative, and of disposing characters and iuci- 
dtnts in the mostcompact manner. His canvas may 
be small, but it is never crowded; and it glows with 
color and sparkles wih movement and life."— C'hri*- 
tian Intelligencer, N. Y. 

YOUNG MUSCRAVE. 

A Novel. By Mrs. Oliphant, Author of "Mr*. 
Arthur," "Innocent," "Ombra," etc. No. 229. 
Price, 15 cents. 

"The rapid succession In which Mrs. Oliphant 
produces lier novels is very remarkable: still more 
remarkable is it that all her novels are good. Eacb, 
indeed, is strongly impressed with the stamp of rcM 
excellence. • • » Mrs. Oliphaiit's novels are al- 
ways good —that is, well conceived, well told, and 
well written. • • • Mrs. Olipliant's novels areof 
sterling quality and worthy execution. "—£xami««r. 
London. 

OWEN GWYNNE'S GREAT WORK. 

By Lady Augusta Noel. No. 37. Price. 10 centa. 
We are afraid that our warmest words of com- 
mendation will appear cold and sober to nersona 
who can appreciate an admirable story, beautifully 
conceived, and told in exquisite language. The plol 
is so Interesting that we fancy few persons will fol- 
low it with unqulckened pulse."— Standard. Lon- 
don. 

"A very pathetic and beautiful tale, in which aa 
original conception is worked out charmingly. • • • 
The characters are all delineated with rare tender- 
ness and delicacy."— Scotsman, London 

WARD or WIFE ? 

No. 22. Price. 10 cents. 

"The story is bright and rattling, and happy in Ita 
sketches of English life in an easy-going French 
town."— TForJd. N. Y. J *> (s «— 

"Is the brighest little story we have read for 
months. Almost every accepted rule of novel- 
writers is transgressed by the author, and there is 
not a trace of conventionalism in the plot: but the 
characters are charmingly drawn, and theftnaleln 
what every reader would have it. The only fault 
of the story is its shortness."- Chri»tian Union, N.T. 

ROBIN GRAY. 

By Charles GIBBON. No. 124. Price, 15 centiL 
"Mr. Gibbon has not only reproduced in prose the 
original story with remarkable fidelity, but he has 
provided a very reasonable and spirited continua- 
tion of it. and has brought about his catastrophe 
without violating in any marked degree either the 
consistency of the characters or the probabilities of 
the situation, as pictured in the poem. A pretty 
tale prettily told, with not too much horror or •sen- 
sation ' in it, and some really fine touches of nature 
interspersed here and there."— .AtAenawm, London 



SOI.D BY ALL NEWSDEALERS. OR SENT POSTPAID BY 

DONNELLEY, CASSETTE & LOYD, PUBLISHERS, CHICAGa 



THE 



LAKESIDE 




K Book No. 2; 



A MANUAL OF RECIPES FOR 



Cooking, Pickling, mtd Preserving, 



AUD OTHER USEFUL INFORMATION FOR 



The Housekeeper. 



/ 



By N. A. D.J 



The Lakeside Cook Book No. 1, a Compilation ot entirely different and equally 
Choice Recipes, also ready. Uniform with this, price 10 cents. 



r 




CHICAGO: DONNELLEY, CASSETTE & LOYD, 

PUBLISHERS OF THE LAKESIDE LIBRARY. 



Copyright, 1878, by Donnelley, Cassette & Loyd, Chicago. 



THE LAKESIDE LIBRARY 



/ 






Is printed in largfe, clear, open type 

whicli can be read with ease and pleasure by 
young and old ; it is handsomely and profusely 
illustrated ; it is unabridged and unaltered. 

Beware of counterfeits and imita- 
tions, copying our Size, Heading, Name and 
general appearance as closely as possible, but 
printed in an unreadably fine type, 
whose perusal will soon dim or destroy the 
strongest eyesight. To further deceive the pub- 
lic the first page of many of these counter. 
feits is printed in bold, large type to more 
closely imitate The LAIiESIDE Li- 
brary, while the balance of the book is in 

tTNKKADABLY SMALL TYPE ! 

Buy only the original "Library," — the 

LARGE, CLEAR, OPEN TYPE LAKESIDE 

Library — if you want un.abridqed and il- 
lustrated Books whose type is so large and 
whose PRINTING so cle.\r, that they can be 
read without soon ruining the eyes. 

l^~The effect upon the eveslght of the Counterfeits 
printed In $mall type, like this sample paragraph, has 
been found so destructive, that the reading puhlic have 
refused to longer purchase them, and tholr pulilishers 
have been compelled to discontinue their pur)licatioii. 
But as many thousands of the unreadable and unsold 
copies are still scattered over the country, a, word of 
warning is timely. 

CATALOGUE TO DATE. 



No. Price 

42. Abandoned. 8 lUas., by Jules Verne lOc! 

57. Abel Drake's Wife, by Saunders lOc. 

138-139. Adam Bede, by Geo. Eliot. 6 Illus 15c. 

79-80. Adventures of Verdant Green, by Cuth- 
bert Bede. 150 Characteristic Illustrations 20c. 

81. Anne Warwick, by G. M. Cralk 10c. 

50. An Odd Couple, by Mrs. Ollphant lOc 

189-190. Armadale, by Wilklo Collins 20c. 

217-218. As LoiigrasSho Lived, by Robinson. ...20c. 
227-228. Aurora Floyd, by Miss M. E. Braddon.20c. 

119. Basil, by WUkle Collins 10c. 

1. Best of Husbands, by James Payn lOc. 

82. Black Hills, by H. N. Maguire. aS Illus lOc. 

223. Blade O'Grass, by B. L. Farjeon lOc. 

4. Blockade Kunner*, by Jules Verne lOc. 

176. Branch of Lilac, by "Oulda" lOc. 

195-196. Brave Lady, by Miss Mulock 20c. 

78. Bread-and-Clieese. by Farjeon 11 Illus 10c. 

177-178. By Celiacs Arbor, by Besant & Klee....20c. 
163. By Proxy, by James Payn 15c. 



92. Camp Life in Gnlana, by Browii. 17 Illus.. 10c 

198. Captain Paul, by Alexandre Dumas lOc 

87. Captain's Last Love, by WllkleCollln8.9Illu8.10c. 
111-112. Castaways, by Jules Verne. 79 Illus... 20c. 

39. CastUpbytheSea, by SlrS.W. Baker lOc, 

11. Christlau'a Mistake, by Miss Mulock iQc. 

18. Christie Jolinstone, by Charles Reade 10c 

28. Christmas Stories, by Charles Dickens 10c 

183-184. Cloisterand Hearth, by Charles Reade.20c. 

125. Corinne, by Madame deStael 15c 

209. Cripps, The Carrier, by R. D. Blackmore...l5c 
41. CrossPurposes, by Mary J. Williams lOc. 

61-62. Daniel Deronda, by Geo. Ellot. Vol. I....lOc. 
63-64. Daniel Deronda, by Geo. Ellot. VolII...lOc. 
148. Dead Guest, The, by Heinrlch Zschokke....lOc. 

188. Deceivers Kver. by Mrs.II.L.Cameron lOc 

131. Deerslayer, by J Fenlmore Cooper 15c 

224-225. Dilemma, The, a tale of the India Re- 
bellion, by author of "Battle of Dorking" 20c. 

86. Dr. Ox's JExporiment, by Verne. 29 Illus. .10c 

40. l>ropped from tiic Clouds, by Jules Verue. 

8 Illustrations iqc 

144. Duel in Herno Wood, by Wilkie Collins.. ..10c 

142-143. East Lynne, by Mrs. Henry Wood. The 

only large type edition 15c 

120. Erema, or. My Father's Sin, by Blackmore.l5c 

99-100. Far From The Ma<ldinff Crowd, by 
Thomas Uardy. The Jilt, by Charles Keade. ...20c. 

180-181. Felix Holt, by George Ellot 20c 

102. Field of Ice, by Jules Verne. 82 Illus lOc. 

159. First of Knickerbockers, by Myers 10c. 

90. Fish and Fishing:, by T. .Alexander. 45 lUus.lOc 

173. FiveUundred Pounds Reward lOc. 

48. Flyins: Dutcliman loc. 

232. For Lack of Gold, by Charles Gibbon 15c. 

24. For the liin;;, by Charles Gibbon lOc. 

199. Foul Play , by Charles Reade [ isd 

201-202. Friendship, by "Oulda." !.!20c 

GG. From the Earth to tlie Moon, by Jules 

Verne. 28 Illustrations iqc, 

89. Frozen Deep, by Wilkie Collins. 10 Illus. ...10c. 

109. Fur Country, I, by Jules Verne. 25 I]lns..lOc 

110. Fur Country. II, by Jules Verue. 25 Illus.. .10c. 

221-222. Game Birds, by Thomas Alex.Tuder 
Over 50 Illustrations. A book for sportsmen... 20c 

72. Goin^to the Bad, by Edmund Yates lOc 

3. Golden Lion, by Anthony TYollope lOc 

160. Green Pastures and Piccadilly, by Black.lSc. 

45. GrilHtli Gaunt, by Charles Reade loc 

97 Guy Livingstone, by George Lawrence lOc 

226 Gwendoline's Harvest, by James Payn lOc. 

35. Halves, by James Payn lOc 

171-172. Hard Cash, by Charles Reade 20c. 

220. Harsarene, by George Lawrence 15c. 

200 Hannali, by Miss Mnloek iqc 

73. Harold, by Alfred Tennyson loc. 

8. Harry Heatlicote, by Anthony Trollope lOc. 

213. Hathercourt, by Mrs. Molesworth 15c 

148. Her Waiting Heart, by E. S. Kenneth 10c. 

182. Hidden Perils, by Mary Cecil Hay lOc 

C^ Catalogue continued on page 48. 



NUMBER TWO. 



The Lakeside Cook Book. 



SOUP. 



The base of soup should be made of good lean 
fresh meat and bones— two ounces of bone to a 
pound of meat; allow one quart of water to a 
pound of meat; put it on a good fire, and when it 
boils skim well and set back where it will simmer 
for five hours; add a little pepper and salt, and 
then strain into a stone jar and place where it can 
cool quickly. In cold weather this stock will keep 
several days, and from it can be made a variety of 
soups, according to flavorings or materials used. 
Vegetables, tapioca, rice, etc., sliould be cooked 
before being added, as too much boiliug spoils the 
flavor of the broth. 

It is best to make the broth or stock the day 
before it. is to be used, so that all the grease may 
be removed. 

Onions are nicer if fried until brown in hot 
butter before being added to the soup. 

Yolks of hard-boiled eggs, poached eggs, lemon 
slices, or croutons are simple additions used with 
soup. Place in the tureen one for each person, 
and pour the soup over them. 

Stock foe Sauces and Gravies. — Place in a 
saucepan fresh bones of beef, mutton, lamb, veal, 
or poultry, of either or all; aiso bones of the same 
meats from roasted pieces or trimmings; with one 
quart of cold water to every pound of meat or 
bones, add vegetables and seasonings, and simmer 
six hours; then skim off all the fat, pass through 
a strainer, and set aside for use. 

To Make a Soup of the Liquor.— Remove the 
fat and put two quarts, or more if requh-ed, of the 
liquor into a saucepan, and put on the fire to boil; 
when boiling, sprinkle in two ounces of tapioca 
or sago, and boil fifteen minutes, stirring occa- 
sionally. 

Force Meat Balls for Soup. — Take cooked 
meat or fowl and chop fine; season with pepper, 
salt, and herbs, and a little lemon; mix together 
with an egg; roll in crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 



BEEF SOUP WITH OKRA. 
Cut a round steak in small pieces and fry in 
three tablespoonfuls of butter, together with one 
sliced onion until very brown ; put into a soup 
kettle with four quarts of cold water, and boil 
slowly an hour; add salt, pepper, and one pint of 
sliced okra, and simmer three and one-half hours 
longer. Strain before serving. 

BEAN SOUP. 
Boil the beans and put them first through a 
a colander and then through a seive; season with 
butter, pepper, and salt. 

CORNED BEEF SOUP. 

When the liquor in which the beef and vegeta- 
bles were boiled is cold, remove all the grease that 
has risen and liardened on top, and add tomatoes 
and tomato ketchup and boil half an hour— thus 
making an excellent tomato soup; or add to it 
rice, or sago, or pearl barley, or turn it into a veg- 
etable soup by boiling in the liquor any vegetables 
that are fancied; several varieties of soups may 
have this " stock " for a basis, and be agreeable 
and nutritious. 

CORN SOUP. 
Cut the corn from the cob, and to a pint of corn 
allow one quart of hot water; boil an hour and 
press through a colander; put into a saucepan an 
ounce of butter and a tablespoonful of flour, be- 
ing careful to stir well to prevent it being lumpy; 
then add the corn pulp, a little cayenne pepper 
salt, a pint of boiling milk, and half a pint 6f 
cream. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

To the broth in which chickens have been boiled 
for salad, etc., add one onion and eight [or ten to- 
matoes, season with pepper and salt; boil thirty 
minutes; add two well beaten eggs just before 
sending to the table. 



CHICKEN SOUP.— OX-TAIL SOUP. 



CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boast or bake a chicken until turning brown ; 
put it in a soup kettle with three pints of water, 
and set on a slow fire; skim off the scum; add a 
middling-sized onion, a little celery, and simmer 
about three hours; take out the chicken and vege- 
tables, strain, and use; the chicken may be used 
for salad. 

FISH SOUP. 

Slice three middling-sized onions and fry them 
with OHe ounce of butter till turning yellow; add 
three or four pounds of fish — bass, pike, trout, 
salmon, or any fish having a firm flesh; add, also, 
two carrots, two onions sliced, a little parsley, 
thyme, one clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, one clove, 
six pepper corns, and salt; cover the whole with 
cold water and boil gently for two hours; add 
more water, if needed; strain and use. 

GIBLET SOUP. 
Prepare first the vegetables, viz., an onion, a 
small piece of turnip, and a carrot; cut in slices, 
and fry in hot butter; when hot and beginning to 
brown, dust in a tablespoonful or less of flour, 
and add the giblets, and let them all brown; then 
put all into a kettle with a gallon and a half of 
water, or half water and half broth, and some 
pieces of chicken if you have them; simmer for 
four or five hours; season to taste, and thicken 
with browned flour; serve with the yolks of hard- 
boiled eggs, one for each person, placed in the 
tureen before pouring in the soup. It will require 
the giblets of five chickens for the above quantity. 

GAME SOUP. 
Roast, until about one- third done, two prairie 
hens, and put into a soup kettle with about one 
pound of lean beef, salt, and five pints of water; 
set on a slow fire; skim as needed, and add one- 
half a carrot, two stalks of parsley, one of celery, 
one onion, a bay-leaf, six pepper corns; simmer 
three hours, and take the birds out of the kettle; 
simmer then two hours, strain, and serve. 

GERMAN PEA SOUP. 
Prepare a thickening by gradually mixing in a 
stew-pan three ounces of sifted flour, with one 
quart of chicken broth; in another stew-pan boil 
up two quarts of chicken broth, into which stir 
the thickening; add a little salt and sugar, and 
one quart of fresh shelled peas previously well 
washed; continue stirring with a spoon till the 
soup boils, then simmer till the peas are done; 
skim, pour the soup in a tureen, and stir in an 
ounce and a half of butter. 



JULIENNE SOUP. 
Scrape two carrots and two turnips, and cut in 
pieces an inch long; cut slices lengthwise about 
one-eighth of an inch thick; then cut again, so as 
to make square strips; put them in a saucepan, 
with two ounces of butter, three tablespoonfuls of 
cabbage chopped fine, and half an onion chopped; 
set on the fire and stir until half fried; add broth 
as you wish to make thick or thin; boil until done; 
salt to taste; skim off the fat, and serve; it takes 
about two hours; it can be served with rice or 
barley. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Take a calf's head and feet; boil them until the 
meat separates from the bones; pick the bones 
out and cut the meat in pieces, about an inch in 
size; put it back, and boil it two hours more; 
chop the brains fine; add eight or nine onions and 
a little parsley; mix the spices with this (mace, 
clover, pepper, and salt), and put it in the soup an 
hour or more before it is done; roll six or eight 
crackers with one-half pound of butter, and when 
nearly done, drop it in; brown a little flour and 
put in; make force-meat balls of veal, fry them, 
and put in the bottom of the tureen. 
MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan and set 
it on the fire; when melted add a tablespoonful of 
flour, stir, and when turning brown, add three 
pints of broth (either beef broth or broth made by 
boiling a calf's head); boil five minutes, and then 
add about four ounces of calf's head cut in dice; 
mushrooms and truffles cut in dice; boil five min- 
utes; cut two hard-boiled eggs and half a lemon 
in dice, and put into the tureen and turn the soup 
over. 

ONION SOUP. 

Slice ten medium-sized onions and fry brown in 
butter with a tablespoon and a half of flour; put 
into a saucepan, and stir in slowly four or five pints 
of milk and water (about one-third water); season 
to taste, and add a teacup grated potato; set in a 
kettle of boiling water, and cook ten minutes; add 
a cup of sweet cream and serve quickly. 
OX-TAIL SOUP. 

Chop the ox-tail into small pieces; set on the fire 
with a tablespoonful of butter, and stir until 
brown, and then pour off the fat; add broth to 
taste, and bofl gently until the pieces of tail are 
well cooked; season with pepper, salt, and three 
or four tomatoes; boil fifteen minutes and then 
serve. This soup can be made with water, in 
which case season with turnip, onions, carrot, and 
parsley. 



POTATO SOUP.— BROOK TROUT. 



POTATO SOUP. 

Peel and slice one dozen potatoes to a quart of 
water; then boil tlioroughly till the potatoes are 
done; then add two teacups of milk and a little 
butter; stir till butter is dissolved; take butter the 
size of an egg with two tablespoonfuls of flour; 
mix together well, and brown in a pan over the 
etove, after which stir it gradually into the soup: 
salt and pepper to suit one's taste. 

POT-AU-FED. 

Take four pounds of beef without any bone, tie 
it into shape, and put into a pot: with six quarts of 
water; when the water is boiling, put in half an 
ounce of salt; take two carrots, two turnips, one 
parsnip, one head of celery, and after washing, tie 
them together with a piece of string and put into 
the pot after the me.at has boiled an hour; then 
tie together one bay-leaf, sprig of parsley, thyme, 
and marjoram, and add, also, one onion, into which 
stick three cloves; when the vegetables have been 
in the pot two hours, add one cabbage cut in two; 
when the contents of the pot have simmered 
gently four hours, remove the meat on to a hot 
dish, and garnish with the carrots, turnip, and 
parsnip, and pour over it a little of the liquor; 
serve the cabbage in a hot vegetable dish; strain 
the liquor through a colander, and put aside to 
cool ; do not remove the fat until required for use. 

SPRING VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Take two pounds of shin of beef and two pounds 
of knuckle of veal; remove all the fat and break 



the bones and take out the marrow; put into a 
pot with five pints of water; add a teaspoonful of 
salt, and then cover and let it come to a boil 
quickly; remove the scum that rises, and set where 
it will simmer for five hours; one hour before 
serving, add two young carrots, scraped and cut 
in slices, half a head of celery, and a small onion 
cut into squares; in half an hour add one turnip 
sUced, and in fifteen minutes one cauliflower 
broken in small pieces. 

TOMATO SOUP. 
Slice and fry a small onion in hot butter; then 
add a dozen large tomatoes, skinned and cut in 
pieces; after they have cooked ten or twelve 
minutes, take out the onion and press the toma- 
toes through a sieve; braid a teaspoonful of flour 
with a very small piece of butter, and put into a 
saucepan; when it has cooked a little, add the 
tomato, season, and add nearly a pint of broth; 
let it boil a minute or two, and then add a cup of 
boiled rice, hot, and a half teaspoonful of soda. 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

Scrape clean and slice three carrots and three 
turnips, peel three onions; fry the whole with a 
little butter till it, turns rather yellow, and then 
add two heads of celery cut in pieces; stir and fry 
for about six minutes; when fried, add one clove 
of garlic, salt, pepper, two cloves, two stalks of 
parsley, and cover with about three quarts of 
water; keep on a rather slow fire, skim off the 
scum carefully, and simmer three hours; strain 
and serve. 



FISH. 



Fish should be fresh, and always well cooked. 

Never soak fresh fish in water, unless frozen. 
Clean, rinse, and wipe dry; in warm weather, lay 
on the ice until needed. 

In boiling, put into cold water, to which add a 
little salt and vinegar, and allow eight minutes to 
the pound. If boiled whole do not remove the 
head and tail, and serve always with a sauce. 

To Fry.— Dredge with flour, dip lightly in beaten 
egg, roll in cracker crumbs, and fry in very hot 
lard. Serve with lemon slices. 

To Broil. — Rub over with olive oil; cut in 
pieces or broil whole as preferred, over a clear, hot 
fire; when done, sprinkle with pepper and salt, a 
little lemon juice, a little chopped parsley, and 
some melted butter. 

To Bake. — Stuff with a dressing as for poultry, 



and sew it up; lay strips of salt pork over it, 
sprinkled with pepper, salt, and crumbs, and bake 
in a hot oven; baste often. 

BREAD STUFFING FOR FISH. 

Take about half a pound of stale bread and soak 
in water, and when soft, press out the water; add 
a very little chopped suet, pepper, salt, a large 
tablespoonful of onion minced and fried, and, if 
preferred, a little minced parsley; cook a trifle, 
and after removing from the fire add a beaten egg. 

BROOK TROUT. 

Wash, drain, and split; roll in tlour, seasoned 
with salt; have some thin slices of salt pork in a 
pan, and when very hot put in the fish and fry a 
nice brown. 



6 



BAKED CODFISH.— SALT MACKEREL. 



BAKED CODFISH. 

To a large teacup of codfish picked fine add two 
cups of mashed potatoes, two cups of milk, two 
well-beaten eggs, salt and pepper to taste, and 
half cup of butter; mix very thoroughly, and bake 
half an hour. 

BAKED FISH. 

Open the fish, wash, wipe perfectly dry, and rub 
over with salt; lay in a dripping-pan with a little 
butter and water, and bake thirty minutes in a 
hot oven. 

BROILED SALMON. 

Take slices of salmon, and half an hour before 
cooking sprinkle over them a little cayenne pepper, 
salt, lemon juice, and salad oil; grease the grid- 
iron with a piece of pork; wrap the fish in 
buttered paper to prevent burning; serve with 
any sauce suitable for fish. 

CODFISH STEWED. 

Soak the fish in cold water for several hours; 
pick fine, and put into a saucepan wi^h cold water; 
boil a few minutes; pour off the water; add fresh, 
and boil again, and then drain; next add sweet 
milk and butter, and thicken with flour or corn 
starch; stir well, and when taken from the fire 
add the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten ; 
stir, pour into a hot dish, and serve. 

CROQUETTES OF FISH. 

Take cold fish of any kind and separate it from 
the bones and mince fine; add a little seasoning, 
an egg, a very little milk, and a teaspoon! ul of flour; 
brush with egg, roll in bread crumbs, and fry 
brown in hot lard. 

FROGS FRIED. 
Skin well and cook for five minutes in salted 
water the hind legs only; then throw into cold 
water to cool, and drain; fry in hot fat, and serve 
garnished with parsley. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Cut a haddock into pieces about an inch thick 
and two inches square ; place slices of salt pork in 
the bottom of a pot, and fry crisp; take out the 
pork and chop fine, leaving the fat in the pot; 
next put in the pot a layer of fish, a layer of split 
crackers, some of tne pork, and a little chopped 
onion seasoned with pepper, then another layer of 
fish, aiwl so on ; cover with water, and stow half 
an hour; put in the dish in which it is to be served, 
and thicken the gravy with flour; add a little 
catsup; boil a moment, and pour over the chowder, 
and serve. 



FISH SCALLOP. 

Remains of cold fish of any sort, half a pint of 
cream, half a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce, half 
a tablespoonful of made mustard, half a teaspoonful 
of walnut catsup, pepper and salt to taste (the 
above quantities are for half a pound of fish when 
picked), bread crumbs; put all the ingredients 
into a stew-pan, carefully picking the fish from 
the bones; set it on the fire; let it remain till 
nearly hot; occasionally stir the contents, but do 
not allow it to boil; when done, put the fish into 
a deep dish or scallop shell, with a good quantity 
of bread crumbs; place small pieces of butter on 
the top; set in a Dutch oven before the fire to 
brown; it should take half an hour to cook it 
properly. 

FRIED EELS. 

Skin, remove head and tail, cut in desired length, 
and throw into boihng water for five minutes; 
then drain, season with pepper and salt, roll in 
flour or corn meal, and fry in boiling lard; serve 
with tomato sauce. 

POTTED SHAD. 

Cut into pieces, wash and dry; mix two tea- 
spoonfuls ground allspice, one of black pepper, 
one-halt tablespoonful salt, and sprinkle on each 
piece; put into a jar with good cider vinegar 
enough to cover; cover very closely, and bake in a 
moderate oven twelve hours. 

SPICED SHAD. 

Split and rub with salt, and let it stand three or 
four hours; put into a pot with boiling water to 
cover, adding a teaspoonful of salt to every quart 
of water; boil twenty minutes, then drain; sprinkle 
witii two tablespoonf uls allspice, one teaspooaful 
cayenne pepper; cover with cold vinegar. 

SALT SALMON. 

Soak well in cold water; when fresh enough, 
put in a kettle with cold water enough to cover, 
and set over a slow fire; boil gently not more than 
two minutes, and then remove and drain; fry a 
little parsley in butter, and turn over the fish, 
adding lemon juice as preferred. 

SALT MACKEREL BROILED. 

Soak in warm water for an hour or two, and 
then wipe dry; brush the fish over with dripping 
or melted butter; grease the bars of the gridiron, 
and lay on the fish, setting it over a sharp fire; 
broil both sides, and serve, spread with butter and 
chopped parsley. 



SHELL FISH. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 
Drain thoroughly in a colander; season with 
pepper and salt, and set in a cool place until 
needed; roll each oyster in bread crumbs, dip in 
egg, and then again in bread crumbs, and fry in 
hot lard as you fry doughnuts; drain, and send to 
the table on a hot platter, garnished with chopped 
pickles or cold slaw. 

OYSTER PIE. 
Line a dish with a puff paste or a rich biscuit 
paste, and dredge well with flour; drain one quart 
of oysters, season with pepper, salt, and butter, 
and pour into the dish; add some of the liquor; 
dredge with flour, and cover with a top crust, 
leaving a small opening in the center. 

OYSTER SHORT-CAKE. 
Make a good short cake and bake on pie-plates; 
put a quart of oysters on the stove with a little 
water, halt a cup of milk, a good-sized piece of 
butter, salt and pepper, and thicken with a table- 
spoonful of flour; when the cakes are baked, split 
and spread the oysters between, and some on top. 

STEAMED OYSTERS. 
Drain some select oysters; put into a pan, and 
place in a steamer over boiling water; steam until 
the oysters begin to curl, and then serve on a hot 
dish, with butter, salt, and pepper; garnish with 
chopped pickles. 

OYSTER OMELET. 
Beat six eggs separately, very light; season with 
pepper and salt; add two tablespoonfuls of cream, 
and pour into a frying-pan, with a good table- 
spoonful of butter; drop in the omelet eight or 
ten large oysters, chopped fine, and fry; fold over, 
and send to the table immediately. 

SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 
Drain the oysters; place a layer of rolled cracker 
in the bottom of a buttered pudding-dish; then a 
layer of oysters ; sprinkle with pepper, salt, and 
small bits of butter; moisten with a httle of the 
liquor mixed with milk; then a layer of bread 
crumbs, then oysters, and so until the dish is full, 
having crumbs on top; beat an egg into a little 
milk, and pour over the whole; sprinkle with small 
bits of butter; cover, and bake half an hour; 
remove the cover and brown on top before send- 
ing to the table. 

PICKLED OYSTERS. 
Choose the largest oysters, and simmer over a 
slow fire, with a small bit of butter, for three 

7 



minutes, and then skim out on to a dish to cool; 
take equal quantities of the liquor and cider 
vinegar, and heat; place a layer of oysters in a 
stone jar; throw over them some ground mace, a 
few cloves, whole allspice, and whole pepper; then 
oysters and spice until all are used ; pour over the 
hot Uquor, and set away in a cool place. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Drain one quart of oysters, and to the liquor add 
one quart of boiling water; let it boil; skim care- 
fully; season with a little cayenne pepper and 
butter, size of an egg; add the oysters, and let it 
boil up once, and season with salt, and serve in a 
hot soup tureen. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Put two quarts of oysters in the saucepan with 
the liquor, and when they begin to boil skim them 
out and add a pint of cream or rich milk and 
seasoning; skim well; add to the oysters butter to 
taste, and pour the hot liquor over them, and serve. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Dry large oysters with a napkin; season with 
pepper and salt, and broil on a fine wire broUer; 
turn frequently; or dip each oyster in butter, and 
roll in bread crumbs before broiling; serve on a 
hot dish with butter on them. 

SOFT-SHELL CRABS. 
Season with pepper and salt; roll in flour, then 
in egg, then in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

DEVILED CLAMS. 

Chop fifty clams very fine; take two tomatoes, 
one onion chopped equally fine, a little parsley, 
thyme, and sweet marjoram, a little salt, pepper, 
and bread crumbs, adding the juice of the clams 
until the mixture is of the consistency of sausage; 
put it in the shells with a lump of butter on each ; 
cover with bread crumbs, and bake one-half hour. 

HOT CRAB. 

Pick the crab; cut the solid part into small 

pieces, and mix the inside with a little rich gravy 

or cream, seasoning, and fine bread crumbs; put 

all into the shell of the crab, and put into the oven. 

STEWED CLAMS. 
Chop the clams and season with pepper and 
salt; put in a saucepan butter, the size of an egg, 
and when melted add a teaspoonful of flour; add 
slowly the clam Uquor and then the clams, and 
cook three minutes; then add half a pint of cream, 
and serve. 



BROILED QUAIL.— WILD DUCK. 



GAME. 



Broiling is the favorite way for cooking game, 
for whicli allow about forty minutes; butter well 
and serve hot on hot dishes. 

For roasting allow thirty minutes. 

Serve with jelly. 

Garnish with lemon slices, Saratoga potatoes, or 
water-cresses. 

BROILED QUAIL. 

Dress carefully and soak a short time in salt 
and water; split down the] back; dry with a 
cloth, and rub them over with butter, and place 
on the gridiron over a clear fire; turn frequently, 
and dip in melted butter; season with salt; pre- 
pare a slice of thin toast, nicely buttered and laid 
on a hot dish, for each bird, and lay a bird, breast 
upward, on each slice; garnish with currant jelly. 

BROILED PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 
Wash thoroughly, and remove the skin; put in 
hot water and boil fifteen or twenty minutes; take 
out and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and rub over 
with butter and broil over a clear fire; place each 
on a piece of toast; garnish with currant jelly. 

BROILED PIGEONS. 
Split down the back ; roll them in butter and 
cracker crumbs, and broil; serve them on toast 
like quail, laying a piece of butter on each. 

PARTRIDGE PIE. 
Line a deep baking-dish with veal cutlets, and 
over them place thin slices of ham and a season 
iug of pepper and salt, pluck, draw, wipe and 
quarter four partridges, rub each part with a seas- 
oning of pepper, salt, minced parsley and butter; 
put in baking-dish, pour over them a pint of strong 
soup-stock, line the edges of the dish with a light 
puff-paste, cover with the same, brush over with 
the yolk of an egg, and bake one hour. If the 
paste is in danger of becoming too brown, cover 
with a thick paper. 

ROAST QUAIL OR PRAIRIE CHICKEN. 
Dress carefully and wipe dry; tie a piece of salt 
pork over the breast of each bird, and put into a 
steamer over boiling water, covering closely, and 
steam twenty minutes; take out, remove tlie pork, 
and put into the oven, basting them often with 
butter, and brown. 



BOAST RABBIT. 

Clean and put into a dripping-pan with a small 
onion and carrot sliced; sprinkle with salt, pepper, 
and spread with butter; put into a quick oven 
with water enough to cover the bottom of the 
pan, and baste frequently; add more water if 
needed; when done, strain the gravy over the 
rabbit, and serve with cranberry sauce. 

RABBIT PIE. 

Line a deep dish with a puff paste or rich biscuit 
crust; stew the rabbit, season well, and pour into 
the dish; cover with an upper crust, and bake. 

ROAST RABBIT. 

Dress nicely and fill with a dressing made of 
bread crumbs, a little onion, sage, pepper, and 
salt, and a small piece of butter; tie a piece of 
salt pork over it; put into a dripping-pan with a 
little water in a quick oven; baste often; serve 
with currant jelly. 

SNIPE. 

Clean nicely and singe; put a piece of butter 
into each one, and tie a small piece of bacon over 
the breast, and bake, basting frequently; serve 
with water-cress. 

VENISON STEWED. 

Cut into small steaks; make a dressing as for 
duck, with bread crumbs, onion, butter, pepper, 
and salt, thyme (or pork instead of butter, if pre- 
ferred), and spread upon each steak; then roll 
and tie; then put into boiling water and stew; 
thicken the gravy with flour, 

WILD DUCK. 

To Bake.— Use a stuffing or not, as preferred; 
place an onion in the pan in which they are 
baking, and baste at first with water, afterward 
with butter; sprinkle with salt and flour, and 
brown; half an hour will cook them; make a 
gravy of the giblets, and serve with currant or 
cranberry jelly. 

To Bboil.— Split down the back, dip in melted 
butter, and broil over a clear tire; garnish with 
lemon slices. 



BEEFSTEAK.— CORNED BEEF. 



MEATS. 



Broilinq.— This is not only the most rapid man- 
ner of cooking meat, but is justly a favored one. It 
has nearly the same effect upon meat as roasting. 
The albumen of the outer portions is hardened, 
and, forming a skin, retains the juices. It should 
be turned rapidly in order to produce an equal 
effect, but the meat ehould not be punctured with 
a fork. 

Salt meat should be put into cold water, and 
boil slowly. 

A red pepper dropped into the water will pre- 
vent the rising of an unpleasant odor. 

Fresh meat, unless for soup, should be put 
into boiling water, and be allowed to cook very 
gently; no salt to be added until nearly done. 

In Roasting — Put into a hot oven, and baste 
frequently. 

BEEFSTEAK. 

"Farmer" Olcott, in the Hartford Courant, 
writes: It is sometimes more convenient for the 
cook to get the beefsteak done tender without 
watching. I remember catching a Sacramento 
meat cook broiling his beef in the oven. No cook 
ought to be hung for treating a steak to a hot 
oven when the other conveniences are limited, 
but a friend tells me of a better way that I think 
is original with him. He smothers the steak in 
corn meal and so bakes it, declaring that if there 
is any way of making a tough steak tender, that 
is it. 

BOILED TONGUE. 

In choosing a tongue, ascertain how long it has 
been dried or pickled, and select one with a smooth 
skin, which denotes its being young and tender; 
if a dried one, and rather hard, soak it at least for 
twelve hours previous to cooking it; if however, 
it is fresh from the pickle, two or three hours will 
be sufficient for it to remain in soak; put the 
tongue into a stew-pan with plenty of cold 
water and a bunch of savory herbs; let it gradually 
come to a boil, skim well and simmer very gently 
until tender; peel off the skin, garnish with tufts 
of cauliflower or Bussels sprouts, and serve; boiled 
tongue is frequently sent to table with boiled poul- 
try instead of ham, and is, by many persons, 
preferred ; if to serve cold, peel it, fasten it down 



to a piece of board by sticking a fork through the 
root, and another through the top to straighten it: 
when cold, glaze it, and put a papir ruche round 
the root, and garnish with tufts of parsley; cook 
a large smoked tongue four to four and a half 
hours, a small one two and a half to three hours; 
a large unsoaked tongue three to three and a half 
hours, a smaU one two to two and a half hours. 

BROILED HAM AND EGGS. 

Cut the ham in thin slices, take off the rind, 
wash the slices in cold water, and lay them on the 
gridiron over quick coals; turn frequently, and 
they will soon be broiled; take them up on a 
platter, previously warmed, butter and pepper the 
ham; have ready on the fire a pan of boiling water 
from the teakettle; break into it as many eggs as 
you require for the meal, and, when the " white" 
is done, dip out each egg carefully with a spoon, 
so as to keep it whole, and set it on one of the 
slices of ham; after all are arranged, sprinkle 
pepper over each egg and serve. 

BEEF HASH. 

Chop fine cold steak or roast beef, and cook in a 
little water; add cream or milk, and thicken with 
flour; season to taste, and pour over thin slices of 
toast. 

BEEF STEW. 

Cut cold beef into small pieces, and put into cold 
water; add one tomato, a little onion, chopped tine, 
pepper and salt, and cook slowly; thicken with 
butter and flour, and pour over toast. 

CROQUETTES. 

Raw pork chopped fine, two cups; one medium- 
sized onion, chopped fine; teaspoonful powdered 
sage; one cup bread, soaked until soft; salt and 
pepper to taste; two eggs beaten light; mix thor- 
oughly into small flat cakes; roll in flour or crumbs, 
and fry in hot lard. 

CORNED BEEF. 

Put into cold water enough to cover well, and 
place where it will cook very slowly for three or 
four hours; if to be used cold, simmer until the 
bones can be easily removed, and then press in a 
square mold. 



lO 



CORNED BEEF.— VEAL CUTLETS. 



CORNED BEEF. 

Select a nice piece of fresti beef; rub over it 
sufficient salt to " corn " it, but not to make it very 
salt; let it stand two or three days, judging of the 
time by the size of the meat; then wash thoroughly 
in cold water, and putting in the pot, cover with 
cold water and boil gently till quite tender; add 
such vegetables as are desired, like the old time- 
honored "boil dish;" judge of the quantity of 
vegetables by the strength of flavor desired in the 
soup to be made from the water jn which the 
whole is boiled; when done dish beef and vegeta- 
bles, and serve hot. 

MUTTON PIK 

Cover the bottom of a dish with bread crumbs; 
then a layer of cold mutton, cut in very thin slices; 
then a layer of tomatoes, sliced thin ; season with 
pepper, salt, and small bits of butter, and so on, 
until the. dish is full, or you have sufficient, having 
tomatoes and bread crumbs on top; cover and bake 
about forty minutes, and serve hot. 

POT PIE. 

Cut veal, beef, or chicken into pieces and put 
into boiling water enoueh to cover, with two slices 
of bacon ; cover closely and boil an hour, and sea- 
son to taste ; make a batter of two well beaten 
eggs, two cups of milk, teaspoonful baking pow- 
der, and flour to make a batter; drop in separate 
spoonfuls while boiling, and cook five minutes; 
serve immediately. 

TOMATO STEW. 

Two pounds of any kind of meat used for stew- 
ing; put into a saucepan with a can of tomatoes, or 
a quart of fresh ones; season with pepper and salt; 
cover closely, and when the tomatoes are cooked, 
add two tablespoonfuls of butter, rubbed into a 
tablespoonful of flour; stew until the meat is ten- 
der, and then pour over dry toast. 

RAGOUT. 

Take three pounds of veal from the neck or 
breast, and cut into small pieces, and fry in butter 
or dripping a light brown; remove from the pan, 
and to the butter add a tablespoonful of flour; 
cook a few minutes; then add two cups of warm 
water, one onion, a sprig each of thyme and pars- 
ley, a carrot, sliced, salt and pepper, then the meat, 
and cover; when done, place the meat on the dish; 
strain the gravy around it, and garnish with small 
onions fried. 



SWEET-BREAD FRITTERS. 

Parboil the sweet-breads; cut into small pieces, 
and season with salt, pepper and parsley; dip into 
batter, and fry in hot lard. 

TO BROIL SWEET-BREADS. 

Soak an hour in salt and water; drain; parboil, 
then rub well in butter, and broil ; turn often, and 
each time they are turned roll them in a plate of 
hot melted butter, so they need not become hard 
and dried. 

STEWED TRIPE. 

Five pounds of tripe cut in small slices and fried 
in a half-pound of lard ; put in the tripe and let it 
cook a little, then add a cup of vinegar, a bowl of 
beef broth, salt, pepper, and three tablespoonfuls 
of flour; mix the whole, and let it stew about fif- 
teen minutes; this is the English method, but I 
have a simpler and more delicate way of cooking 
tripe, which I prefer: take three pounds of fresh 
tripe, cut it in pieces about three iuches square; 
cut up about three good-sized onions in thin 
slices; place tripe and onions (after washing the 
former) in warm water, and let it stew gently 
until the tripe is tender; then simmer away all the 
water; add unskimmed milk thickened with flour, 
butter size of an egg, a trifle of pepper and a 
little salt; when the thickened milk is well boiled, 
dish up for the table. 

VEAL CUTLETS BROII;ED. 

Trim evenly; sprinkle salt and pepper on both 
sides; dip in melted butter, and place upon the 
gridiron over a clear fire; baste while broiling 
with melted butter, turning over tiiree or four 
times; serve with melted butter sauce or tomato 
sauce. 

VEAL. 

Cut two pounds of veal into thin pieces; roll 
with flour, and fry with hot lard; when nearly 
done, add one and a half pints of oysters; season; 
thicken with a httle flour; serve hot. 

VEAL CUTLETS-BAKED. 

Take cutlets and trim nicely; mix half a pound 
sausage meat with two eggs; lay a buttered paper 
on the bottom of dripping-pan, and cover with 
half the sausage meat, and then lay on it the cutlet, 
and cover with the remainder of the sausage meat; 
baste with melted butter and veal stock, and serve 
with the gravy when done. 



VEAL. — SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 



II 



A GOOD PREPARATION OF VEAL. 

The following is an excellent mode of preparing 
-veal to be eaten cold, and for keeping it on hand 
lor several days, ready for immediate use: Jake 
say three and a halt pounds — the thick part of the 
leg is preferable, with tiie tough tendonous parts 
removed— chop it fine without cooking; mix well 
•with it four soda crackers rolled fine, three well- 
beaten eggs, one tablespoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of pepper, half a nutmeg, two table- 
spoonfuls of cream, or a small piece of butter; 
make it into a loaf, and bake in a dripping-pan 
without water, with quick heat at first, to close the 
outside and retain' the juices, and continue the 
baking about one and a quarter to one and a half 
Jiours; serve cut in thin slices; an excellent lunch 
in travehng. 

Another Way.— Butter a good sized bowl, and 
Jine it with thin slices of hard-boiled eggs; have 
veal and ham both in very thin slices; place in the 
bowl a layer of veal, with pepper and salt, then a 
layer of ham, omitting the salt, then a layer of 
veal, and so on alternating with veal and ham 
until the bowl is filled; make a paste of flour and 
water, as stiff as it can be rolled out ; cover the 
contents of the bowl with the paste, and over this 
tie a double cotton cloth; put the bowl into a 
saucepan, or other vessel, with water just up to 
the rim of the bowl, and boil three hours; then 
take it from the fire, remove the cloth and paste, 
and let it stand until the next day, when it may be 
^turned out and served in very thin slices. 

PRESSED VEAL OR CHICKEN. 
Put four pounds of veal, or two chickens in a 
;pot; cover with water, stew slowly until the meat 
drops from the bone, then take out and chop it; 
let the liquor boil down until there is a cupful; 
j)ut in a small cup of butter, a tablespoonful of 
pepper, a little allspice, and a beaten egg; stir this 
through the meat; slice a hard boiled egg; lay in 
your mold, and press In the meat; when put upon 
the table garnish with celery tops or parsley 

SANDWICHES. 

Chop cold boiled ham very fine, and mix it with 
the yolks of eggs (beaten), a little mustard and 
pepper, and spread on very thin slices of bread, 
buttered on the loaf; trim off the crust, and cut 
into neat squares. 

MINCED LIVER. 

Cut liver into small pieces and fry with salt 
pork; cut both into square bits, nearly cover with 
water, add pepper and a little lemon juice; thick- 
en the gravy with fine bread crumbs and serve. 



BONED TURKEY. 

Boil a large turkey in as little water as possible 
until the meat falls from tlie bones; remove all 
the bones and skin; pick the meat into small 
pieces, and mix dark and light together ; season 
with pepper and salt; put into a mold and pour 
over it the liquor, which must be kept warm, and 
press with a heavy weight 

CHICKENS FRIED WITH RICE. 

Take two or three chickens, cut them up, and 
half fry them; then boil halt a pint of rice in a 
quart of water, leaving the grains distinct, but not 
too dry; one large tablespoonful of butter stirred 
in the rice while hot; let five eggs be well beaten 
into the rice, with a little salt, pepper, and nut- 
meg, if the last is liked; put the chickens into a 
deep dish, and cover with the i,rice; brown in an 
oven not too hot. 

CHICKEN SANDWICHES. 

Stew a chicken until very tender; season with a 
little salt; take out the bones and pack the meat 
firmly in a deep dish, mixing the white and dark 
nicely together; pour the broth in which the 
chicken is stewed over it— there should be just 
enough to cover the meat; when it is cold, cut in 
smooth slices and place between slices of good 
bread or biscuit. 

GIBLET PIE. 

Take the gizzards, heads, legs, livers, end of 
wings, and necks, and stew in suSicient water; 
season with pepper, salt, and a little butter; line 
the sides of a deep dish with a rich crust; pour in 
the giblets, cover with an upper crust, and bake. 

PICKLED CHICKEN. 

Boil until the meat falls from the bones; pick 
the meat and put into a jar, and pour over it a 
liquor made with vinegar, to which has been added 
one-half the 'quantity of the water in which the 
chickens were cooked ; season to taste. 

SMOTHERED CHICKEN. 

Dress your chickens; wash and let them stand 
in water half an hour to make them white; put 
into a baking-pan (first cutting them open at the 
back); sprinkle salt and pepper over them, and 
put a lump of butter here and there; then cover 
tightly with another pan the same size, and bake 
one hour; baste often with butter. A delicious 
dish. It is a Southern method. 



12 



SPRING CHICKEN.— GRAVY. 



SPRING CHICKEN. 

Cut into pieces, season, roll iu flour, and fry in 
?u)t lard, covering closely; when done, remove 
from the pan, pour out nearly all the fat, and add 
a cup of cream; thicken with a little flour; season 
with pepper and salt, and when done, pour over 
the chicken. 

STEWED PIGEONS. 

Dress, tie down the wings and legs, and a small 
piece of bacon on to the breast of each bird; place 
in the bottom of a kettle a slice or two of bacon, 
and lay the pigeons carefully on them; cover with 
stock; cover the kettle very closely, and simmer 
slowly until tender; serve on toast. 

JUGGED PIGEON. 
Truss and season the pigeons with pepper and 
salt; stuff them with a mixture of their own livers, 



shred with beef suet, bread crumbs, parsley, mar- 
joram and two eggs; sew them up and put into 
tlie jar with half a pound of butter; stop up the 
jug, so that no steam can get out, then set them in 
a pot of water to stew; they will taka two hours, 
and must boil all the time; when stev/ed enough, 
take them out of the gravy, skim off the fat, put 
in a spoonful of cream; a little lemon peel, an 
anchovy shred, a few mushrooms, and thicken it 
with butter and flour; dish up the pigeons, pour 
the sauce over them and garnish wiih sliced lemon. 
STEWED GIBLETS. 
Put the giblets in a pan with butter, and fry a 
light brown; add parsley, an onion, a little thyme, 
and thicken with a little flour, and cover with 
stock; boil nearly two hours, and then take up 
the giblets; let the gravy boil a little longer, and 
then strain over the meat. 



SAUCES. 



ANCHOVY. 

Make as for caper sauce, adding a tablespoonf ul 
of anchovy extract or paste. 

BUTTER SAUCE, 

Mix well together two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
some chopped parsley, juice of half a lemon, salt, 
and pepper; use for broiled meat or fish. 

BROWN BUTTER SAUCE. 

Put butter into a frying-pan, and let it stand on 
the fire until very brown, and then add a little 
parsley and fry a moment longer. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Mix together two large tablespoonfuls of butter 
and a tablespoonf ul of flour; put into a saucepan, 
and add two cups of broth or water; set on the 
fire, and when thick add capers to taste; salt; take 
from the fire, add the yolk of an egg beaten, and 
serve. This sauce can be greatly varied; by using 
chopped cucumbers or hard-boiled eggs, or herbs 
or mushrooms, you have cucumber, egg, herb, or 
mushroom sauce. 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Mix two tablespoonfuls of butter with a table- 
spoonful of flour; add two cups of stock or water, 
and boil; when thick, add celery chopped fine; 
season; boil ten minutes; strain and serve. 



CELERY SAUCE. 
Six heads of celery, one pint of white stock, 
two blades of mace, one small bunch of savory 
herbs; thickening of butter and flour, or arrow- 
root, half a pint of cream, lemon juice; boil the 
celery in salt and water until tender, and cut into 
pieces two inches long; put the stock into a 
stew-pan with the mace and herl)s, and let it sim- 
mer for one-half hour to extract their flavor; 
then strain the liquor, add the celery and a thick- 
ening of butter kneaded with flour, or, what is 
still better, with arrowroot; just before serving, 
put in the cream, boil it up and squeeze in a little 
lemon juice; if necessary, add a seasoning of 
salt and white pepper. This sauce is for boiled 
turkey, poultry, etc. 

CREAM SAUCE. 
Mix two tablespoonfuls of butter with one of 
flour; then add two small cups of cream, and set 
on the fire; stir until thick, and then remove 
from the fire; then add the yolk of an egg, well 
beaten with a teaspoonf ul of water, and season 
with salt and pepper. 

GRAVY FOR ROAST BEEF. 
Melt a httle butter in a gill of water; pour it over 
a roast when put in the oven; place under it an 
earthen dish to catch the drippings; baste often 
for half an hour, tlien set it to cool ; when cool, 
remove all fat, heat the gravy, and pour it over 
the roast. 



CREAM DRESSING.— COLDSLAW. 



13 



CREAM DRESSING. 

Take a large tablespoonful of sweet cream and 
whip to a stiff frotli; add two tablespoonfuls 
of fine sugar, and nearly a half cup of vinegar; 
beat and use for cabbage dressing. 

HORSE RA.DISH. 

Mix together thoroughly one small tablespoon- 
ful of melted butter, or, if preferred, olive oil, and 
one of mixed mustard, two of horse radish, one 
of vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar, and 
a little salt. 

MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 

Put the yolk of an egg into a bowl with a salt- 
spoonful of It, and beat until light with a 
wooden spoon; then add half a teaspoonful of 
dry mustard, and beat again for a minute; then 
add olive oil, drop by drop, until it is thickening, 
then a few drops of vinegar, and the same of 
lemon juice; continue this process until the egg 
has absorbed a little more than a gill of oil; finish 
by adding a little cayenne pepper. 

MUSTARD FOR TABLE. 

One-half teacup of vinegar put on to boil; but- 
ter size of a walnut, one teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of sugar, one-half teacup of Col- 
man's mustard mixed with a little cold vinegar. 

ONION SAUCE. 

Boil one cup of milk; season to taste; add a 
small piece of butter and a tablespoonful of flour 
moistened with some of the milk; when thick 



add three onions 
chopped fine. 



that have been boiled and 



SUBSTITUTE FOR CAPER SAUCE. 

Half a pint of melted butter, two tablespoon, 
fuls of cut parsley, half a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil the parsley slowly 
to let it become a good color; cut, but do not chop 
it fine; add to it a half-pint of smoothly made 
melted butter, with salt and vinegar in the above 
proportions; let it simmer two minutes and then 
serve. 

PIQUANTE SAUCE. 

One small onion chopped fine and fried with two 
tablespoonfuls of butter; when nearly done add 
a tablespoonful of flour, and cook a minute; then 
add one cup of stock, seasoning, chopped cucum- 
ber, parslej', and a little mustard ; boil ten minutes, 
and when done add a teaspoonful of vinegar. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED TURKEY OR CHICKEN. 

Make as for caper sauce, using milk instead of 
broth or water, and add cauliflower cut into small 
pieces ; or, add lemon and the livers boiled and 
mashed. 

VEGETABLE SAUCE. 

Equal quantities of ripe tomatoes and young 
okras; chop the okras fine, skin the tomatoes, 
and slice one onion. Stew all together very slowly 
until tender, and season with half tablespoonful 
of butter and a little cayenne pepper and salt. 
For cold meat. 



SALADS. 



KOHL-SLAU. 

Cut very fine and pack in a small jar; sprinkle 
a little salt and pepper over it; take vinegar — a 
pint will answer for a small head; butter the size 
of a walnut; one spoonful of sugar or more if 
liked; heat this to the boiling point; mix a well 
beaten egg in a cup of cream and pour into the 
vinegar, stirring briskly until it agam boils; then 
instantly pour it over the cabbage and cover 
tightly, pressing down with a little weight or 
plate ; this slau is better when two days old, al- 
though it can be eaten at once, or after a week if 
kept in a cool place. 



COLDSLAW. 

With a sharp knife — there are knives made for 
the express purpose— cut up nicely a firm head of 
cabbage; sprinkle it with as much pepper and 
salt as you think necessary; beat up the yolk of 
one egg, add a lump of butter the size of a wal- 
nut, a gill of cream, the same quantity of vinegar, 
a tablespoonful of sugar, an even teaspoonful of 
mustard, and a pinch of bruised celery seed ; heat 
these condiments, mixed together, in a tin cup; 
put the slaw in an oven, and pour the mixture 
over it boiling hot; stir it till well mixed, and the 
cabbage slightly coddled, then send to the table hot. 



H 



BEEF SALAD.— TOMATO SALAD. 



BEEF SALAD. 

Cut in very thin small slices and put on a dish 
with chopped parsley ; mix in a bowl some vine- 
gar and sweet oil— one part vinegar to two of oil, 
pepper, salt and mustard; beat together and pour 
over the meat. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

One quart of cabbage chopped fine; make a 
dressing with the yolks of two or three hard 
boiled eggs rubbed smooth, butter the size of an 
egg, melted; one tablespoonful of sugar, half 
tablespoonful of dry mustard, half tablespoonful 
of pepper, teaspoonful of salt, and half teacup of 
cider vinegar; heat together, and when cool mix 
thoroughly with the cabbage. Use the whites of 
the eggs for garnishing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Three chickens boiled until tender; when cold 
chop, but not too fine, add twice the quantity of 
celery cut fine, and three hard boiled eggs sliced; 
make a dressing with two cups of vinegar, 
half cup of butter (or two tablespoonfuls of oil), 
two eggs beaten with a large tablespoonful of 
mustard, saltspoonful of salt, two tablespoonfuls 
of sugar, and tablespoonful of pepper, or a little 
cayenne pepper; put the vinegar into a tin pail 
and set in a kettle of boiling water; beat the 
other ingredients together thoroughly and stir 
slowly into the vinegar until it thickens. Pour 
over the salad just before serving. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Peel and slice and put into a dish, with salt over 
every layer, and leave an hour; drain dry, and 
then dress with oil, vinegar, and pepper; add 
onions if the flavor is liked. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Cut in pieces one-quarter of an inch long; make 
a dressing of the yolks of three hard boiled eggs, 
one-half cup of vinegar, three tablespoonfuls of 
salad oil, one teaspoonful French mustard, a little 
salt, and cayenne pepper; mix well and pour over 
the celery. 

FISH SALAD. 

Cut cold salmon, or fish of any kind, into slices 
and place them in a dish with hard boiled eggs 
and lettuce, crisped and broken into 'small pieces, 
and pour over it a salad dressing made either with 
or without mustard. 

SALAD DRESSING. 
Beat thfe yolks of eight eggs, and add one [cup 
of sugar, one tablespoonful of mustard, salt, and 



pepper, half cup of cream and a very small pinch 
of cayenne pepper; mix; boil three cups of 
vinegar, to which add a cup of butter, and while 
boiling pour over the mixture and mix thoroughly; 
bottle and set in a cool place and use when 
needed. 

SALAD DRESSING FOR LETTUCE. 

Take the yolks of two hard boiled eggs; add 
one-half teaspoonful mixed mustard, and mix to a 
paste with a silver fork; then add slowly, mixing 
carefully, about one-half cup of vinegar, one tea- 
spoonful of sugar, and salt to taste; cut the lettuce 
with a sharp knife, and pour the dressing over it; 
garnish with hard boiled eggs. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Tha above receipt makes excellent lobster salad, 
by adding lobster cut into small pieces, and mixed 
lightly with a fork. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Boil the lobster, break in two and drain; remove 
all the flesh from the shell and chop into dice; 
add lettuce, chopped fine; season with salt, pepper, 
vinegar, nuistard, and a little oil, and spread over 
it a Mayonnaise sauce. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Steam and slice the potatoes ; add a very little 
raw onion chopped very fine, and a little parsley, 
and pour over the whole a nice salad dressing; 
serve either warm or cold. 

POTATO SALAD. 

One pound mashed potato, one-quarter pound 
mashed beet; mix smooth and add two table- 
spoonfuls salad oil, same of vinegar, pepper, salt, 
and parsley chopped fine. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Put a can of salmon into boiling water and boil 
a quarter of an hour; remove from the can; drain 
off the oil; sprinkle with pepper and salt and a 
few whole cloves; cover with vinegar and let it 
stand twenty-four hours, and then take from the 
vinegar into a salad dish, and add a head of lettuce 
cut fine; over the whole pour a nice salad dressing; 
garnish with lettuce leaves and serve. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Peel and cut into small pieces six large tomatoes; 
make a dressing of one tablespoonful of oil, one 
of vinegar, one-half teaspoonful of mustard, a 
little cayenne pepper, and salt; pour over the to- 
matoes; mix well and serve. 



ASPARAGUS.— EGG PLANT. 



15 



VEGETABLES. 



TO BOIL ASPARAGUS. 

Scrape the stems lightly to within two inches of 
the points; throw them into cold water for a few 
minutes; tie in bunches of equal size, cut the ends 
that they may be all of the same length, then 
throw into boiling water a little salted, and boil 
fast for twenty or twenty-five minutes, or until 
quite tender; have prepared a round of bread 
nicely toasted, which dip quickly into the boiling 
asparagus water, then dish the asparagus upon 
it, with the points meeting in the center; send rich 
melted butter to the table with it. 

BAKED BEETS. 

Wash and putr into a pan; set into a moderate 
oven and bake slowly; when soft, remove the skin 
and dress to taste. 

BEANS. 

We must not forget beans which abound so in 
nourishment, but they must be thoroughly cooked; 
for bean soup they should be boiled about five 
hours; seasoned then with. cream or butter, and 
with salt, they ought to be relished by everybody. 
However I may have seasoned this soup, my chil- 
dren always wish to add milk upon their plates. 
B.iked beans must be either boiled until very soft 
before baking, or must be baked a long time— from 
three to six hours, if not previously very tender— 
with a good deal of liquor in the jar or pan. 
Those who use pork at all, usually put a piece of 
fat pork in the dish of beans prepared for baking, 
but some of us very much prefer a seasoning of 
cream or butler. Split-pea soup, or common unsplit 
dried peas, boiled five to six hours without meat, 
is very nutritious, and much liked by many; I sea- 
son it with salt, and cream or milk, if I have it — 
the more the better— otherwise with butter. 

BAKED BEANS. 

Soak a pint and a half of dried beans over night; 
in the morning pour off the water, cover with 
fresh water and boil until they crack open, or are 
very tender; then put them witii the water in 
whicli they were boiled into a deep earthen dish, 
adding a little salt, and if agreeable a tablespoon- 
ful of molasses; put on top of the dish one halt 
pound of fat and lean pork or corned beef, which 
should be gashed or scored across the rind; bake 



four hours, and longer if convenient; it will be 
better for it, only bake slowly ; keep nearly covered 
with water till two-thirds done, then allow it to 
dry away. 

CARROTS STEWED. 

Cut the carrots lengthways, and boil until soft; 
then slice very thin and put into a saucepan with 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and a cup of cream 
or milk; season, and stew a quarter of an hour. 

CAULIFLOWER, WITH CHEESE. 

Boil in salted water until tender; put them intO' 
a baking dish and pour over them a drawn but- 
ter sauce in which has been mixed a little grated 
cheese; sprinkle with bread crumbs, and place in 
a quick oven for ten minutes. 

CABBAGE A-LA-CREME. 

Boil and drain the cabbage; put into a sauce- 
pan, one cup of cream, two tablespoonfuls of but- 
ter, and thicken with a little flour, and season with 
salt and pepper, and then add the cabbage, and 
boil slowly five or ten minutes. 

STUFFED CABBAGE. 

Cut the heart out of a large cabbage; take cold 
chicken or any cold meat, and chop very fine and 
season highly and mix with tlie yolk of an egg; 
fill the cabbage with this stuffing, and then tie it 
firmly in a cloth, and boil an hour and a half or 
two hours. 

EGG PLANT— BAKED. 

Boil until soft, and scoop out all the inside ; 
mash fine, and to every cupful add a tablespoon- 
ful of cracker crumbs, a teaspoonful of butter, 
and pepper and salt to taste; put into a dish for 
the table; beat an egg very light, and spread a part 
over the top of the dish, then sprinkle with rolled 
cracker, and lastly spread with remainder of the 
egg, and set into the oven to brown. 

EGG PLANT. 

Put into water and boil until soft, then cut in 
two and scoop out all the inside; season; take a 
tablespoonful at a time, dip in egg and bread 
crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 



i6 



GREENS.— STUFFED TOM A TOES. 



GREENS. 

This is the simplest of dishes, yet it is not always 
a well served one. Greens should be properly 
boiled; the water should be soft, and a tablespoon- 
ful of salt added to a large-sized pot of it, which 
which should be boiling hot when the greens are 
thrown in; it should be kept boihng until they are 
done, which can be told by their sinking to the 
bottom of the pot, and then they should be skim- 
med out as quickly as possible into a colander so 
tliat all the water will run out; press them with a 
small plate, and then turn upon a platter, add a 
large piece of butter, and cut up fine. Serve 
smoking hot. 

LIMA BEANS. 

They should be gathered young; shell them, lay 
them in a pan of cold water, and then boil them 
about two hours, till they are quite soft; drain 
well, and add to them some butter. 

MACARONI. 
Boil macaroni until tender; butter the bottom of 
a pudding dish, and put in a layer of the macaroni, 
then a layer of grated cheese ; season with butter, 
pepper and salt; then another layer of macaroni, 
and so on, finishing with a layer of cheese; cover 
with milk and bake forty minutes. 

PARSNIP FRITTERS. 
Boil in salted water until very tender; then 
mash, seasoning with a little butter, pepper and 
salt, add a little flour and one or two eggs, well 
beaten ; make into small balls or cakes and fry in 
hot lard. 

POTATO CAKES. 

Grate raw potatoes ; season ; add flour and well- 
beaten eggs; make into cakes and fry. 

BAKED POTATOES. 
Slice them and put into cold water for a time 
before using; then put into a baking dish, with 
seasoning and half pint of milk; bake slowly, and 
when done lay a piece of butter on the top. 

POTATO-CHEESE PUFFS. 
Take some grated cheese, some cold mashed po- 
tato, and a beaten egg, with a little butter; mix 
well, adding salt and pepper; put into patty-paus, 
and bake in a quick oven. Serve hot. 

POTATO PUFF. 

Beat a pint of mashed potatoes; butter the size 
of egg, melted, until very light; then add half cup 
of cream and two eggs beaten separately; beat 
well, and pile irregularly in a dish, and bake 
•quickly. 



POTATOES A LA DELMONICO. 

Cut the potatoes with a vegetable cutter into 
small balls about the size of a marble; put them 
into a stew-pan with plenty of butter and a good 
sprinkUng of salt; keep the saucepan covered, and 
shake occasionally until they are quite done, which 
will be in about an hour. 

FRIED POTATOES WITH EGGS. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes and fry in good butter 
until brown; beat up one or two eggs and stir 
into them just as you dish them for the table; do 
not leave them a moment on the fire after the eggs 
are in, for if they harden they are not half so nice; 
one egg is enough for three or four persons, un- 
less they are very fond of potatoes; if they are, 
have plenty and put in two. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Wash them, cut oS the ends of the stalks and 
peel them; put them in a stew-pan without any 
water, and season with salt and pepper; add two 
ounces of butter rolled in two teaspoon fuls of flour 
to every pint of mushrooms; cover them closely 
and let them simmer slowly until they are soft. 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Rub 'tomatoes through the colander, and cook 
to taste* toast three slices of bread, butter and lay 
upon a hot dish; just before serving add a cup of 
cream or milk to the tomatoes and pour over the 
toast. 

STUFFED TOMATOES. 

Select large tomatoes of even size and scoop out 
a small place in the top and fill with a stuffing 
made as follows: Fry a small onion chopped fine 
in a tablespoonful of butter; when nearly done add 
some bread crumbs, moistened with a iittle milk 
or water, and seasoned with pepper and salt; put 
a httle bit of butter on each and then bake. 
Another dressing is made as follows: Chop very 
fine cold meat or fowl of any kind with a very 
small piece of bacon added; fry an onion chopped 
fine in a tablespoonful of butter, and when nearly 
done add the meat, some bread crumbs, pepper 
and salt; cook a minute; mix well; add the yolk of 
an egg, and fill the tomatoes; place in a baking 
dish; sprinkle bread crumbs over them with some 
small bits of butter, and bake. Use either as a 
garnish or as a dish by itself. 

AN EXCELLENT DISH. 

Place alternate layers of tomatoes, sliced onions 
and bread and butter in a pudding dish and bake. 



BREAD, BISCUITS, Etc. 



BREAD, BISCUIT, ETC, 

In selecting flour first look to the color. If it is 
white, with a yellowish straw-color tint, buy it. 
If it is white, with a bluish cast, or with black 
specks in it, refuse it. Next examine its adhesive- 
ness — wet and knead a little of it between your 
fingers; if it works soft and sticky, it is poor. 
Then throw a little lump of dried flour against a 
smooth surface; , if it falls like powder, it is bad. 
Lastly, squeeze some of the flour tightly in your 
hand: if it retains tlie shape given by the pressure, 
that too is a good sign. It is safe to buy flour that 
will stand all these tests. 

Three things are indispensable to success in 
bread making : good flour, good yeast, and watch- 
ful care; a fourth might be added : experience. 

In Winter, always warm the flour for bread, and 
keep the sponge near the stove, where it will not 
get chilled. 

Bread should be put into a rather hot oven. An 
hour is the time usually allowed for baking. 

Rolls and biscuit should bake quickly. To make 
them a nice color, rub them over with warm water 
just before putting them into the oven; to glaze 
them, brusli lightly with milk and sugar. 

Baking-powder and soda biscuit should be made 
as rapidly as possible, laid into hot pans and put 
in a quick oven. 

Gem pans should be heated and well greased. 

Fritters should be made quickly and beaten very 
thoroughly. 

Pancakes should be well beaten, the eggs sepa- 
rately, the whites to a stifif froth and added the 
last thing. 

HOP YEAST. 

Six potatoe9 boiled in a gallon of^water with a 
handful of hops tied in a bag; put in a jar one- 
half cup of flour, and when the potatoes are done, 
pour the water over it, adding the potatoes when 
mashed; when lukewarm, add a cup of yeast, and 
when cold a half cup of sugar, one-fourth cup of 
salt, and a tablespoonful of ginger. 

POTATO YEAST. 

Take half a dozen medium-sized potatoes, boil 
and mash fine, and two cups of flour, a good 
tablespoonful ginger, one of salt, one-half cup 
white sugar; add two cups of boiling water, and 
beat until smooth; when lukewarm, add a cup of 
yeast or two yeast cases. 

17 



VIENNA BREAD. 

The following is the recipe by which the Vienna 
bread was made that became so famous on the 
Centennial grounds: Sift in a tin pan four pounds 
of flour; bank up against the sides; pour in one 
quart of milk and water, and mix into it enough 
flour to form a thin batter; then quickly and 
lightly add one pint of milk, in which is dissolved 
one ounce of salt and one and three-quarter 
ounces of yeast; leave the remainder of the flour 
against the sides of the pan; cover the pan with a 
cloth, and set in a place free from draught for 
three-quarters of an hour; then mix in the rest of 
the flour until the dough will leave the bottom 
and sides of the pan, and let it stand two and a 
half hours; finally, divide the mass into one-pound 
pieces, to be cut in turn into twelve parts each; 
this gives square pieces about three and a half 
inches thick, each corner of which is taken up and 
folded over to the center, and then the cases are 
turned over on a dough-board to rise for half an 
hour, when they are put in a hot oven that bakes 
them in ten minutes. 

BREAD. 

The first thing is the yeast, which is made with 
hops, a small handful boiled and stirred into flour 
with a little salt, and sometimes a little ginger and 
brown sugar. To "set" the sponge, the flour is 
sifted carefully, and into the center is poured the 
yeast thoroughly mixed with water and salt, and 
about a peck of finely mashed potatoes is needed 
for a baking of a dozan loaves of medium size. 
This mixture is made thoroughly fine, and the 
ingredients when mixed (about new-milk warm 
in summer, and a little warmer in colder weather) 
poured slowly upon the flour, and made into a 
fine batter. It is at night, which is our plan; the 
first thing in the morning, it is again worked and 
set to rise, before breakfast, so that by dinner 
time our large baking is finished. The potatoes, 
without a doubt, keep the bread moist, are a 
healthful addition, and where cheap, effect a 
saving in flour of some importance. , 

STEAMED BROWN BREAD. 

One cup of molasses, two and a half cups of 
sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a 
teaspoonful of warm water, two cups of Graham 
flour, one cup corn meal, teaspoonful of salt; steam 
three hours, and then set a few minutes in the 
oven. 



i8 



BROWN BREAD.— CREAM MUFFINS. 



BROWN BREAD. 

Take two cups of rye meal, two cups of Indian 
meal, and one half a cup of fiour; salt, and a tea- 
spoonful of saleratus should be added to this; it 
can be mixed with water, but is nicer when sour 
milij is used; it must be made soft enough to run; 
bake slow and long. 

BROWN BREAD. 

Four cups sour milk, four cups corn meal, two 
cups rye meal, one-half cup New Orleans molasses, 
soda to sweeten milk; bake it in a deep dish two 
hours. 

BISCUITS. 

Into a quart of sifted flour put two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder and a pineii of salt; 
mix together while dry; then rub into it a piece 
of lard a little larger than an egg; mix with cold 
sweet milk; roll thin; cut with a tin cutter, and 
bake a light brown in a hot oven; send to the 
table immediately. 

CORN BREAD. 

Two cups of Indian, one cup wheat, 

One cup sour milk, one cup sweet, 

One good egg that well you beat, 

Half a cup molasses, too, 

Half cup sugar add thereto, 

With one spoon of butter new, 

Salt and soda each a spoon; 

Mix up quickly and bake it soon; 

Then you'll have corn bread complete, 

Best of all corn bread you meet. 

It will make your boy's eyes shine 

If he's like that boy of mine. 

If you have a dozen boys 

To increase your household joys. 

Double then this rule I should. 

And you'll have two corn cakes good. 

When you've nothing nice for tea, 

This the very thing will be; 

All the men that I have seen 

Say it is of all cakes queen — 

Good enough for any king 

That a husband liorao can bring; 

Warming up tlie human stove, 

Clieering up the hearts you love; 

And only Tyndall can explain 

The links between corn bread and brain. 

Get a husband what he likes, 

And save a hundred household strikes. 

CORN MEAL GEMS. 
To two cups of boihng milk add two cups of 
corn meal, salt, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 



butter, size of a hickory nut; mix well and leave 
until cool; then add three eggs, beaten very light; 
bake in gem-pans. 

FRIED CORN BREAD. 

Take pieces of cold corn bread and crumble 
them up fine; put them in a saucepan, pouring in 
a little hot water, just to moisten; add butter, 
pepper, and salt; mix and warm up. This makes 
a nice dish for lunch, and is a good way to save 
pieces of corn bread left. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

Take three eggs, beat well, and add one-half 
teacupful of milk; dip into this mixture slices of 
bread,.and fry them in butter till slightly browned; 
serve piping hot. 

FRENCH TOAST. 

For a family of five, take five slices of bread 
(the longer the bread has been baked the better), 
and have ready a bowl of water, into which a 
pinch of salt has been dropped; take a piece of 
butter the size of a walnut, and thoroughly grease 
the bottom of a frying-pan; then beat five eggs 
to a froth; dip each slice of bread into the water, 
then into the egg, and place it flat on the bottom 
of the frying-pan; pour over the bread the re- 
maining egg which was left in the bowl; set the 
frying-pan over the fire, carefully turning the 
bread over when it becomes a light brown; pepper 
and salt to taste, and rest assured that as often as 
it is brought on the table, just so often will your 
dinner be praised. 

GRAHAM MUFFINS. 

Set the iron gem-pans on the stove to heat; beat 
one egg light in a basin; add one teacupful sour 
milk and two tablespoonfuls sugar; stir well 
together; add a mere pinch of salt; stir in Graham 
flour to make a rather stiff batter; mix thoroughly, 
with the addition of one tablespoonful melted 
batter; and, lastly, stir in one-third teaspoonful 
soda dissolved in a teaspoonful of hot water; the 
latter, when ready to drop into the well-heated 
and greased gem-pans, should be so thick that it 
will not run from the spoon, but just drop nicely. 
This will make one dozen excellent gems. 

LIZZIE' S CREAM MUFFINS. 

One pint of milk, one pint of flour, three eggs 
(yolks and whites beaten separately), a little salt, 
one teaspoonful melted butter; put in gem-pans, 
and bake in a pretty hot oven twenty minutes. 
If made and baked right, these can not be excelled. 



ROLLS.— HOMINY FRITTERS 



19 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

One quart of flour, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls of butter rubbed into the flour, 
one-half cup of yeast, one pint of warm railli; stir 
this up at night, and put it to rise; in the morning 
stir in flour enough to have it linead without sticlf- 
ing, and then put it ba^lj in the same disli to rise 
again, and wlien it is risen light and nice, make it 
out into rolls; put them in the tin you wish to 
bake them in, and let them be in a moderately 
warm place until tea-time; then, if they are not 
risen enough, put them near the stove a few 
minutes until they do rise, then bake in a quick 
oven, 

ROLLS. 

Boil six potatoes in two quarts of water, and 
when done pour and press the whole through tlie 
colander; when cool, but not cold, add flour to 
make a thick batter; add half a cup of yeast or 
one-half cake compressed yeast, and set to rise; 
when light, add half a cup of lard and butter 
mixed, a tablespoonful of sugar, teaspoontul of 
salt, and flour to make a soft dough; knead well 
and set again to rise; when light, knead down 
again, and repeat three or four times; an hour 
before they are needed, cut in small pieces, roll 
out, spread with melted butter, and fold over, lay- 
ing them in a pan so that they will not touch each 
other; set them in a warm place, and when light 
bake quickly. Or, make into oblong rolls without 
spreading and folding, and just before putting 
them into tlie oven, gash deeply across the top 
with a sharp knife. 

RUSK. 

Take four cups of dough, a cup of sugar, half a 
cup of melted butter, and three eggs; mix and 
add flour as needed; let it rise; when light, knead 
well and make into biscuit, and set to rise again; 
add a few currants, if desired, when light; glaze 
the tops with sugar and water; sift over some dry 
sugar, and bake. 

POP-OVERS. 

One pint sifted flour, one and one-half teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt, large teaspoonful 
melted butter, and, lastly, two eggs, -beaten very 
light; bake in gem-pans, 

DELICIOUS RICE Wx\FFLES. 

Take one quart of sweet milk, two coffeecups 
of boiled rice, and three-quarters of a cup of 



wheat flour; warm the milk; stir in the above 
named articles; add half a teacup of home-made 
yeast, two tablespoonfuls of distillery yeast, and 
half a teaspoonful of salt; make at twelve o'clock, 
to use for tea at six; set in a warm place; when 
ready to cook, add two eggs well beaten* bake in 
waffle irons. 

SNOW BA.LLS. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, whites of 
five eggs, flour to make a batter, and bake in 
small tins, or gem-pans. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Rub into a quart of flour two teaspoonf uls of 
baking powder: beat together nearly half a cup 
of butter and two tablespoonfuls of sugar; put 
into the flour and mix with a pint of milk; then 
add two eggs, beaten light. 

FRITTERS. 

Two eggs, two teaspoonfuls sour 'milk, one tea- 
spoonful soda, four tablespoonfuls butter, and 
flour to make a stiff batter; fry in hot lard, and 
serve with sweet sauce, 

FRITTERS. 

Take three eggs to each pint of rich sweet milk, 
a pinch of salt, and flour to make a batter stiff 
enouerh to drop from a spoon into boiling lard. 
Or, use a teacupful of newly fallen snow, instead 
of the eggs, and fry immediately. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

Two cups of flour (sifted), teaspoonful of baking 
powder, salt, and two or three eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately; to this batter add any fruit desired, cut in 
small pieces; drop by spoonfuls into boiling-hot 
lard: drain in a colander, and dust over with fine 
sugar, and serve quickly. 

HOMINY FRITTERS. 

To one cup cold boiled hominy add one-half cup 
of milk, and when well mixed, add one cup flour, 
one or two eggs, asaltspoonful of salt, and one tea- 
spoonful baking powder, stirred in last in a lit Je 
of the flour; have plenty of boiling lard in a fry- 
ing-pan, enough to float the fritters; drop in from 
a spoon; fry till a good brown color. If these 
direction are faithfully followed, we can promise 
you some fritters that will delight all who partake 
of them. 



20 BUCKWHEAT CAKES.— OATMEAL MUSH. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Take warm water and thicken it witli flour, to 
which add a tablespoonful of molasses, to make 
them brown well. Brewers' yeast is best, but it 
can not generally be obtained except in large 
towns. In the morning add a little soda. If the 
batter is of the right consistence, and the cakes 
baked quickly and eaten direct from tiie griddle, 
they will be quite difTerent from the tough, heavy 
things too often stacked up before the fire. 

BREAD PANCAKES. 

Soak the bread and drain; to two cups of bread 
add one of flour, milk enough to make a thin 
batter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, and one 
egg, beaten light. 

CORN MEAL PANCAKES. 

Take two cups of Indian meal and a teaspoon- 
ful of salt; pour over it boiling water to make a 
batter; stand until cool, and then add the yolks of 
three eggs beaten, flour to make the proper con- 
sistency, one and a half teaspoonfuls baking 
powder ; just before baking, add the whites, 
beaten stiff. 

RICE PANCAKES. 

One-half cup of cold boiled rice, mixed with one 
pint of milk and the yolks of three eggs, and 
flour (in whicli has been mixed a good teaspoon- 
ful of baking powder and a little salt) to make a 
batter; bake on the griddle, and while hot, spread 
with jelly or jam; roll up, trim, and sprinkle over 
with sugar; must be eaten hot. 

TOMATO PANCAKES. 

Make a batter with one cup of flour, two tea- 
spoonfuls sugar, salt, teaspoonful baking powder, 
and two cups of milk, adding last three eggs, 
beaten light; slice large tomatoes, season, cover 
with the batter, and bake on a griddle. 

YEAST WAFFLES. 

: One quart of flour mixed with a pint of warm 
milk; add one-half cup of yeast, salt, two eggs 
(well beaten), and piece of butter, size of an egg, 
melted; when light, bake. 

WAFFLES. 

Rub a large teaspoonful of baking powder and 
the same quantity of butter into a pint of flour; 
one-half teaspoonful of salt; beat the yolks of two 
eggs very light, and mix with a coffeecupful of 
milk, and add to the flour; lastly, the whites of 
the eggs, beaten to a stiff froth."" 



EGG WAFFLES. 

One pint of milk, one-half cup of melted butter, 
and flour to make a soft batter, four eggs, beaten 
separately; beat all thoroughly, and add two tea- 
spoonfuls of baking powder. 

HOW TO COOK OATMEAL. 

Oatmeal is seldom cooked sufficiently. For the 
coarser oatmeals (which are by far the best for 
mush) measure live or six parts water (preferably 
soft)— yes, measure it, and then you will have it 
alike every time, and not be at the trouble of 
watching it to see if it is of right consistency and 
adding more meal. As soon as the water boils, 
pour in one part meal. These coarse meals do not 
require stirring up. Let it boil up smartly until it 
sets, or is evenly diffused through the water; then 
set it back where it will not boil so fast, and after 
half an hour place it where it will hardly simmer. 
Let it cook an hour at least, and two hours, if 
possible. If the time is limited, put it to soak 
beforehand, and stir it when heating up. After 
that it requires no stirring. The sliminess often 
complained of is due to the constant stirring which 
some cooks practice. The surest way to avoid 
scorching is to cook it in a double kettle, or in a 
tin dish set into a kettle of boiling water; then all 
the attention it requires is to keep water in the 
kettle beneath, and to see that it boils. Disturb as 
little as possible when dishing, and allow it to 
stand a few minutes before serving. With tlie 
Scotch and other fine oatmeals the process is much 
the same, only they require much stirring while 
setting, and the proportion of meal is much greater 
after that. It is particularly important not to stir 
them until served. The time required to cook 
them is less, but an hour is none too much to get 
the best results from the Scotch or Canadian, as it 
is sometimes called. But no amount of cooking 
will make them equal to the coarser kinds in 
delicacy of flavor. A coffeecup of oatmeal will 
suffice for five or six persons as the main dish for 
breakfast. 

OATMEAL MUSH IMPROVED. 

Much better than the old way of stirring the 
oatmeal into boiling water, is the new way of cook- 
ing it in a farina kettle. If no farina kettle or 
steam-cooker is at hand, one may always be impro- 
vised in this way: Set a stone jar or a tin pail con- 
taining the food to be cooked, into a kettle of 
water, putting a couple of sticks under the jar to 
keep it from coming in contact with the bottom 
of the kettle. 



PUFF PASTE.— LEMON PIE. 



21 



PASTRY. 



For pastry use the best of material. 

In warm weather keep the paste in the refrige- 
rator until wanted, and bake in a hot oven. 

A well beaten egg rubbed with a bit of cloth 
over the lower crust of pies will prevent the juice 
from soaking through it. 

Puff paste should always be made of sweet, solid 
buuter. 

The juice of fruit pies, if thickened with a little 
corn-starch, will not " hoil over."' 

PUFF PASTE. 

Take one pound of sifted flour, on which 
sprinkle a very little sugar, take the yolks of one 
or two eggs, and beat into theui a liltle ice- water, 
and pour gently into the center of the flour, and 
work into a firm paste, adding water as it is neces- 
sary; divide three-quarters of a pound or a pound 
of firm, solid butler, as you prefer, into three 
parts; roll out the paste, and spread one part of 
the butter on half of the paste; fold the other 
half over, and roll out again, repeating the process 
until the butter is all rolled in; then set tne paste 
on the ice for fifteen or twenty minutes, after 
which roll out again three times, each time rolling 
it the opposite direction; then put on the ice 
again until cold, when it is ready for use. It will 
keep several days in a refrigerator, but should not 

freeze. 

APPLE TARTS. 

Pare, quarter, core, and boil in a half teacupf ul 
of water until very soft, ten large tart apples; beat 
till very smooth, then add the jolks of six eggs or 
three whole eggs, juice and grated rind of two 
lemons, half cup butter, one and a half cups sugar, 
or more if not sweet enough; beat all thoroughly; 
line little tart-tins witli puff paste, and fill with the 
mixture; bake five minutes in a hot oven. 
SLICED APPLE PIE. 

Line pie-pan with crust, sprinkle with sugar, fill 
witn tait apples sliced very thin, sprinkle sugar 
and a very little cinnamon over them, and add a 
few small bits of butter and a tablespoonful 
water; dredge in flour, cover with the top crust, 
and bake half to three-quarters of an hour; allow 
four or five tablespoonfuls sugar to one pie. Or, 



line pans with crust, fill with sliced apples, put on 
top crust, and bake; take off top crust, put in 
sugar, bits of butter, and seasoning; replace crust, 
and serve warm. It is delicious with sweetened 
cream. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Stew sour apples until soft, and press through a 
colander; use the yolks of three eggs, butter, size 
of an egg, with sugar and seasoning to taste, for 
each pie; spread whites over the top when baked 

COCOA-NUT PIE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one and "one-half 
cups milk, three eggs, one tablespoonful butter, 
the rind of lemon, one cocoa-nut finely grated; the 
crust should be the same as for custard pie. 

RIPE CURRANT PIE. 

One cup mashed ripe currants, one of sugar, 
two tablespoonfuls water, one of flour beaten 
with the yoiks of two eggs: bake, frost the top 
with the beaten whites of tlie 3ggs and two table- 
spoonfuls powdered sugar, and brown in oven. 

GREEN CURRANT PIE. 

Line an inch pie-dish with a good pie-crust; 
sprinkle over the bottom two heaping tablespoon- 
fuls sugar and two of flour (or one of corn starch), 
mixed; then pour in one pint green currants, 
washed clean, and two tablespoonfuls currant 
jelly; sprinkle with four heaping tablespoonfuls 
sugar, and add two tablespoonfuls cold water; 
cover and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 

HURRY PIE. 

Take light bread, cut slices one inch thick and 
as large as you wish; cut off the crust; put the 
slices in a plate, and spread a layer of fruit, either 
preserved or stewed, over them; then put a few 
spoonfuls of cream over, and flavor as you choose. 
It is nice and handy for farmers' wives. 

LEMON PIE. 

Two lemons, half cup sugar, yolks of four eggs, 
one quart milk, two-thirds cup of flour; whites, 
beaten, put over the top when pie is doue. 



22 ORANGE PIE.— CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 



LEMON PIE. 

Grated rind and juice of one lemon, to wliich 
add nearly a cup of sugar and piece of butter, lialf 
the size of an egg; into one cup of boiling water 
stir one tablespoonf ul corn starch, beaten with the 
yolks of two eggs; baitejwith an under crust, and 
when done, spread over the top the whites, beaten 
stiff, with a little powdered sugar, and return to 
the oven to brown/ 

GOOD PIE-CRUST FOR DYSPEPTICS, 

Equal parts corn meal, Graham flour, and white 
flour; wet up with sweet cream, and add a little 
salt; bake in a hot oven. 

MOTHER'S LEMON ?1B. 

The grated rind and juice of three lemons, three 
tablespoonf uls sugar, three tablespoonf uls flour, 
three eggs, one pint of syrup; mix well; make 
paste as for any pie, pour the above mixture in, 
and cover with a top crust. This is enough for 
three pies. Excellent. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Beat to a cream one-half cup sugar with a table- 
spoonful of butter, and add the beaten yolks of 
four eggs, the grated rind and juice of two 
oranges, and then the whites of the eggs, beaten 
stiff; bake with one crust. 

ORANGE SHORT-CAKE. 

One quart flour, two tablespoons butter, two tea- 
spoons baking powder thoroughly mixed with the 
flour; mix (not very stiff) with cold water, work 
as little as possible, bake, split open, and lay sliced 
oranges between; cut in squares and serve with 
pudding sauce. 

PINEAPPLE PIE. 

Grate a pineapple; cream half its weight of 
butter with its weight of sugar, and add the yolks 
of four eggs, beaten light; then add a cup of cream; 
bake with an under crust, with the beaten whites 
of the eggs on top. 

SUMMER MINCE PIES. 

One cup raisins, chopped fine, one nutmegj two 
cups water, tablespoouful cinnamon, two cups 
sugar, butter the size of an egg, one-half cup of 
vinegar, eight crackers rolled fine; cook well to- 
gether before baking. 



PUMPKIN PIE. 

A small pumpkin baked, scoop out the pulp and 
add two quarts of milk, sugar to taste, one-half 
cup molasses, tablespoonful of salt, and ginger 
and cinnamon to taste. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Stew rhubarb; add the grated rind and juice of 
a lemon, the well beaten yolks of two eggs, and 
sweeten with white sugar-; line pie tins with a 
good crust and fill with the rhubarb; bake until 
the crust is of a delicious brown; beat the whites 
to a stiff froth — it will be necessary to add three 
tablespooufuls of powdered sugar; flavor with 
vanilla, and spread over the tops of the pies; re- 
turn to the oven until of a light brown; the eggs 
and lemon given are enough for two pies. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Make a biscuit paste, only using more shorten- 
ing; roll thin and put a layer in the baking-pan, 
spread with a little melted butter, and dust with 
flour, and add another layer of crust, spread as be- 
fore, and then another layer of crust, until all is 
used; bake in a quick oven, and when done, spread 
strawberries between the layers, turning the upper 
one crust side down, spreading witii strawberries, 
and pour overall charlotte-russe or whipped cream. 

Orange short-cake can be made by simply sub- 
stituting sliced oranges for strawberries. 



CHOCOLATE DROPS. 

One cup of cream and two cups of powdered 
sugar; set into a vessel of boiling water, and boil 
until stiff; into another vessel of hot water set a 
half cup of grated chocolate, and let it melt; uoll 
the sugar into balls, and dip into the chocolate, 
and then set away to cool. 

LEMON TAFFY. 

Two cups while sugar, one cup boiling water, 
one-quarter cup vinegar, one-hulf cup butter, 
flavor with lemon ; pour in buttered plates to cool. 

CHOCOLATE CARAMELS. 

One-half pound chocolate, two pounds sugar, 
two tablespooufuls vinegar, two teacups milk, 
one lump of butter, twice the size of an egg, six 
tablespooufuls mola.sses; boil until it hardens in 
t;old water. 



APPLE DUMPLINGS.— CRACKER PUDDING. 23 



PUDDINGS. 



Beat the eggs separately. 

If a mold is used for boiling, be sure to Jaave it 
well greased. 

A bag or cloth should be wruug out of hot water 
and well floured. 

In boiling, always put the pudding into boiling 
water, enough to cover. 

Boiled and steamed puddings require nearly 
twice as much time as baked. 

APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Use good sized, rather tart apples, pare, and re- 
move the cores; envelope each separately in puff 
paste and tie it in a piece of cloth: boil or steam 
for one hour; before serving, remove the cloths, 
cut a piece from each, and put in some sugar and 
fresh butter; replace the piece of paste, and 
sprinkle with powdered sugar; if preferred, they 
may be served with liquid sauce or sweetened 
cream. 

APPLE ROLL. 

One pound flour, one-fourth pound of butter; 
mix with sufficient water to make a not very stiff 
paste; pare and slice rather thick, some tart 
apples; roll out the paste as for pie-crust, and 
spread the sliced apples to cover it; sprinkle on a 
little flour, and roll up as tightly as possible with- 
out breaking the paste; cook it in a steamer, or 
wrap in a cloth and boil for an hour; serve by 
cutting across in thin slices, with sauce of butter 
and sugar. 

BROWN-TOP PUDDING. 

Take slices of any kind of rich cake without 
fruit, make a custard of four eggs, one quart of 
milk, sugar, and flavor to taste; pour over the 
cake, which will rise to the top; bake like custard. 

BLACKBERRY PUDDING. 

Put the berries into a preserving kettle and mash 
with sugar enough to make sweet; set over the 
fire, and when it begins to simmer, stir in very 
gradually two teaspoonfuls of flour to a quart of 
fruit; stir until well cooked, and eat either hot or 
cold with cream, raspberries may be used in the 
same way^ 



BATTER PUDDING. 

Six eggs, six tablespoonfuls flour, one quart of 
milk, a little salt, and half a teaspoonf ul of soda, 
or a teaspoonf ul of baking powder; bake in a 
buttered pan for twenty minutes. 

BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

Into one quart of boiling milk stir a half pint of 
corn meal; when cool, add one-half cup Of sugar, 
tablespoonful butter, one cup of raisins, and four 
eggs well beaten; mix well, and bake an hour 
and a half. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Three cupfuls flour, or sufficient to make the 
batter; one tablespoonful butter, one cupful sugar, 
two eggs, one cupful milk, half a teaspoonf ul soda, 
one teaspoonf ul each of cream of tartar and salt; 
mix the cream of tartar with the flour, beat the 
whites of the eggs; put the butter, sugar, and 
yolks of the eggs together; then work in the 
milk, soda, and salt, adding gradually the flour 
and whites of the eggs; there sliould be flour 
enough to make a fairly stiff batter; butter a mold 
or dish, and bake; it may be turned out or served 
from the dish; to be eaten with any liquid sauce. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Scald together one quart of milk and three 
ounces of grated chocolate, and set aside to cool ; 
then add nearly a cup of sugar, and yolks of five 
eggs; bake, and when done, spread whites on top, 
beaten stiff with sugar, and brown. 

CORN-STARCH PUDDING. 

One quart of milk set into a kettle of boiling 
water; mix four ounces of corn starch, two ounces 
sugar, with a little cold milk; pour into the milk 
when boiling, and stir until thick; just before 
taking from the fire, add the whites of two eggs, 
beaten to a stiff froth, and flavor. 

CRACKER PUDDING. 

One quart of milk, three soda crackers, one egg, 
a small piece of butter, spice and raisins to taste; 
bake. 



24 CHARLES' PUDDING.— MINUTE PUDDING, 



CHARLES' PUDDING. 

One cup of su£ar,'One tablespoonful of melted 
butter, one cup sweet milk, one egg one and one- 
half teaspoonfuls baking powder; mix with one 
pint of flour; bake one-half hour, and eat hot 
\sith sweet sauce. 

DYSPEPTICS' PUDDING. 

Boil a cup of rice until done soft; then take two 
eggs, a cup of sugar, and one of milk, and stir all 
together and add to the rice; pare six good cook- 
ing apples, slice small and place in bottom of pud- 
ing dish, and pour the rice custard over them; 
place in a moderate oven long enough to bake the 
apples. To be eaten warm, either with or with- 
out cream. 

DELICIOUS PUDDING. 

Two ttips of fine bread crumbs, one and one- 
half cups white sugar, five eggs, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, one quart fresh milk, one-half cup jelly 
or jam; rub the butler and one cup of the sugar 
together; tlien add the beaten yolks ofijthe eggs; 
beat all to a cream; then add the breadcrumbs, 
which have previously been soaked in the milk; 
bake in a pudding dish (not filling it more than 
two-thirds full) until the custard is "set;" then 
draw it to the mouth of the oven, and spread over 
the jelly or jam; then cover this with a meringue 
made of the beaten whites and half a cup of sugar; 
put back in oven and allow it to remain until the 
meringue begins to color; to be eaten cold with 
cold cream. This is truly delicious. 

INDIAN PUDDING. 
Take two quarts of sweet milk, scald one of 
them, add fourteen tablespoonfuls (level full) of 
Indian meal, one teacupful of chopped sweet 
apple, either dried or green, and salt and molasses 
to taste; bake three hours. 

AUNT KITTIE'S SUET PUDDING. 

One cup molasses, one cup suet, one cup raisins, 
one cup milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder; 
add flour till very stiff to beat with a spoon; put 
in a steaming-pan or floured bag, and steam con- 
stantly for three hours. 

LEMON PUDDING. 
One pint of white sugar, one-quarter of a pound 
of butter, three lemons, four wine glasses of wa- 
ter, the yolks of four eggs; ,< cook down thick and 
pour over sponge cake sliced m a pan; beat the 
whites of four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of 
white sugar to each white of egg, and put over 
the top of the pudding; let it remain in the stove 
just long enough to become a light brown. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

Line a pudding dish with a alee pie paste; 
make a custard of a pint and a half of milk, yolks 
of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of flour or corn 
starch, three-quarters of a cop of sugar, and the 
grated rind and juice of a lemon; pour in the 
dish and bake; when done, spread whites, beaten, 
over^the top and brown. 

POVERTY PUDDING. 

Put a layer of apple sauce in a buttered pudding 
dish, then a layer of cracker or bread crumbs, 
sprinkled with bits of butter and seasoned with 
spice to taste, then a layer of sauce, and so on, the 
upper layer being of crumbs; lay bits of butter on 
the top and bake; eat with cream. 

PLUM PUDDING. 

Take half a pound of wheat flour, half a pound 
of raisins, stoned and chopped, and the same of 
currants, picked, washed and dried; use milk 
enough to stir easily with a spoon; add half a pound 
of suet, chopped fine, and four well beaten eggs 
and a large teaspoonful of mace, cinnamon and 
allspice; mix all well together, and boil it for two 
hours and a half in a cloth or tin; serve with but- 
ter and sugar, or wine sauce. Plum pudding, if 
cold, may be warmed in a pan with some of the 
sauce. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Line a pudding dish with slices of cake; slice 
thin a pineapple and place a layer on the cake in 
the bottom of the dish; sprinkle with sugar, theu 
more pineapple, and so ou, until the dish is full; 
cover with slices of cake, and over the whole pour 
a cifp of water; cover and bake slowly for nearly 
two hours. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one quart milk, one 
cup sugar, butter size of an egg, yolks of four 
eggs; flavor with lemon and bake as custard; beat 
the whites of four eggs to a froth, mix with a cup 
of powdered sugar, and juice of a lemon; spread 
a layer of fruit jelly over the custard while hot; 
cover with the frosting, and bake until slightly 
brown. To be eaten with cold cream, or warm, 
with^an^ sauce that may be preferred. 

RYE MINUTE PUDDING. 

g Heat milk to the boiling point, salt to taste, and 
stir m gradually rye flour to make a thick mush; 
cook about fifteen minutes, and eat with sugar 
and cream. 



R OLE Y-POLE Y.— CRA CKED WHEA T. 



25 



ROLEY-POLET. 

Make a good biscuit dough, and roll about three- 
quarters of an inch thick, aud spread with berries, 
preserves, or slices of apple; roll up and tie in a 
cloth; boil or steam an hour and a half. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half box gelatine soaked ten or fifteen min- 
utes in four tablespoonfuls of cold water; then 
add a pint of boiling water, the juice of two lem- 
ons, and one cup of sugar; strain it and set away 
to cool ; when cool— not stiff— add the well beaten 
whites of three eggs, mix thoroughly and pour 
into a mold and cool. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One cup of suet chopped fine, one cup raisins, 
one cup currants, one cup molasses, one cup milk, 
two and one-half cups flour, teaspoon baking pow- 
der, one-half teaspoonful cinnamon, nutmeg, and 
little candied lemon chopped; steam or boil from 
two to three hours. 

MRS. ELLIS' ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, 
half a pound of citron, one pound beef suet, ten 
eggs, one pound of sugar, one pint of bread 
crumbs soaked in milk, a little salt, a nutmeg or 
mace; flour added to make it stiff enough for the 
spoon to stand up straight; boil constantly five 
hours. 

MOCK STRAWBERRIES. 

Cut choice apples and ripe peaches — one apple 
to tiiree peaches — into pieces about the size of a 
strawberry, place in alternate layers, and sprinkle 
the top thickly with sugar and pounded ice; let it 
stand two hours; mix thoroughly and set aside 
lor an hour longer. 

EXTRA-NICE DESSERT DISH. 

Make a sponge cake, consisting of three eggs, 
one cup white sugar, one cup flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, aud three tablespoonfuls boil- 
ing water; this will make three cakes on round 
tins, sufficient for a dessert for eight; then make 
a boiled custard, consisting of one quart of milk, 
two large eggs, and three tablespoonfuls of white 
sugar; pour it over the cake; take one-half pint 
of thick cream, and whip it to a stiff froth, 
sweeten and season to suit the taste, and spread 
it smoothly over the whole; let it cool thoroughly 
by setting it on ice or otherwise, 



HEN'S NEST. 

Make blanc mange; pour in egg shells, and set 
to cool; when cold, break the egg shells, place in 
a glass dish, cut strips of lemon peel, let them boil 
in a syrup of sugar and water till they are tender, 
and sprinkle them over the egg shapes, and make 
a custard and pour over all. 

GOOSEBERRY CREAM. 

Take a quart of gooseberries, and boil them very 
quick in enough water to cover them; stir in half 
an ounce of good butter, and when they become 
soft, pulp them through a sieve; sweeten the pulp 
while it is hot, and then beat it up with the yolks 
of four eggs; serve in a dish or glass cup. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Mix together the yolks of four eggs, four table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, one tablespoonf ul of flour, and 
two cups of milk; set on the fire aud stir con- 
stantly until thick; flavor to taste. 

PUDDING SAUCE. 

Beat one cup of butter to a cream, then stir in 
a large cup of brown sugar, and the yolk of an 
egg; simmer slowly a few minutes, stirring con- 
stantly ; flavor to taste. 

LIQUID SAUCE FOR PUDDINGS. 

One cup of sugar and: one-third cup of butter 
rubbed to a cream; then stir in the well-beaten 
white of one egg; flavor with lemon or nutmeg; 
add one cup of boiling water, and mix just before 
bringing to the table. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

This excellent dish is often spoiled by very good 
cooks who think they must stir it all the time to 
keep it from burning. Too much stirring makes 
it like paste; putting in more water when nearly 
done has the same effect. One-third of wheat by 
measure, to two-thirds of water, soft if you have 
it, will make it about right. The water should be 
cold when the wheat is put in; it should cook 
slowly and be covered closely. In this way scarcely 
any stirring will be found necessary. There is a 
deliciousness in this dish when cooked as above, 
which is never found if stirred while cooking. 
The same may be said of oatmeal, only the 
latter should be quickly stirred into hoiling water; 
cover closely, and let cook for about twenty min- 
utes. Wheat may be cooked about the same time, 
although it bears cooking longer. 



26 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE.— ICE CREAM. 



STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 
Beat a coffee cup of sugar and piece of butter 
size of an eg^ to a cream, and add two cups of 
strawberries, mashed, and the beaten white of an 
egg. A nice sauce can be made of raspberries, 
cherries, and other fruits as above, or by simply 
talking the juice, sweetening it aud thickening 
witli a little corn starch. 

FOAM SAUCE. 

One teacupful of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of 
butter, one teaspoonful of flour, beat smooth, place 
over the fire and stir in three gills of boiling 
water. A little lemon, vanilla, or orange adds 
much to the sauce. To be eaten withsponge cake 
or puddings. 

LEMON SAUCE. 

Beat two tablespoonf uls of butter and nearly a 
pound of sugar umil light; add the juice and part 
of the rind of two lemons and two eggs; beat well 
and stir into it two cups of boiling water, and 
boil a few moments. 

CREAM PUDDING SAUCE. 

Beat half pound of fine sugar aud butter the 
size of an egg until light, and then add about half 
a cup of cream; stir in it a half cup of boiling 
water, and boil; flavor to taste just before sending 
to the table. 

COCOA SAUCE. 

Half pound of sugar and two ounces of butter 
beaten until light; tablespoon of flour, milk of a 
cocoa-nut, and a tablespoonf ul of the nut grated; 
boil only enough to cook the flour. 

APPLE TRIFLE. 

Scald as many apples as, when pulped, will 
cover the dish you design to use, to the depth of 
two or three inches; before you place them in the 
disli add to them the rind of half a lemon grated 
fine, and sugar to taste; mix half a pint of cream 
and the yolk of an egg; scald it over the fire, 
keeping it stirring, and do not let it boil; add a 
litttle sugar, and let it stand till cold, then lay it 
over the apples, and finish with the cream whip. 

APPLE CREAM. 
Six apples stewed and mashed to pulp; when 
the apples are cold add six eggs, beaten very light, 
and five tablespoonfuls of sugar ; whisk until 
stiff, and serve with sweetened cream flavored to 
taste. 

APPLE FLOATING ISLAND. 
Stew eight or nine apples ; when soft pass 
through a colander, and season to taste with sugar 



and spice : beat to a froth the whites of five eggs 
and mix with the apples, adding a little rose 
water; sweeten some cream, and place the mixture 
upon it. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. . 
Boil one ounce of gelatine in one pint of milk; 
beat four eggs and nearly a cup of sugar together 
until fight, and pour over them the gelatine and 
milk; whip a pint of ^cream, which must be very 
cold, to a stiff froth, and add the above mixture; 
flavor with vanilla; fine a mold or dish with thin 
slices of sponge-cake or lady-fingers, and pour in 
the mixture and set on the ice. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

One ounce of gelatine dissolved in a pint of boil- 
ing milk; put into a pint of cream a cup and 
half of sugar aud vanilla to flavor, and whip to a 
froth; mix with the gelatine, adding the whites 
of tlie eggs beaten light; pour into a mold or dish 
lined with sponge-cake, and set on the ice until 
needed. 

DRIED PEACH SAUCE. 

Pick over and wash thoroughly; cover with hot 
water and leave all night; stew until very soft 
and when done pass thi'ough a colander; sweeten 
to taste, and then boil up once. 

ORANGE FLOAT. 
Put one quart of water, one cup of sugar, and 
pulp and juice of two lemons on the fire; when 
boiling thicken with four tablespoonfuls of corn 
8 arch, and boil ten or twelve minutes, stirring 
constantly; when cold pour it over some peeled 
and sliced oranges, and spread the beaten whites 
of two eggs, sweetened and flavored with a few 
di'ops of lemon juice. 

RASPBERRY BLANC-MANGE. 
Stew fresh raspberries; strain off the juice, and 
sweeten to taste; put over the fire, and when it 
boils stir in corn starch wet in cold water, allow- 
ing two tablespoonfuls to a pint of juice; stir until 
cooked, and pour into molds to cool. Strawber- 
ries and cherries are very nice. Eat with sweet- 
ened cream or boiled custard. 

CHOCOLATE ICE CREAM. 
Scald a pint of new milk and add gradually a 
cup and a half of sugar, two beaten eggs and two- 
thirds a cup of grated chocolate rubbed smooth 
in a little milk; beat, and set over the fire until 
thick, stirring continually: take off and add table- 
spoonful of dissolved gelatine; when cold put in 
the freezer; when it begins to set add two cups of 
cream, aud two cups of cream whipped to a froth. 



LEMON CUSTARD.— APPLE CUSTARD. 



27 



LEMON CUSTAED. 

Beat one pound of sugar and quarter of a pound 
butter together until light, add four eggs also 
beaten light, and two rolled crackers, one cup of 
milk and the grated rind and juice of lemon. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Squeeze any quantity of lemons desired; make 
the juice thick with sugar; stir it into cream, 
allowing nearly three quarts to a dozen lemons, 
and freeze. 

LEMON ICE. 

One gallon of water and four pounds of sugar, 
well boiled and skimmed; when cold add the juice 
of a dozen lemons, and the sliced rind of eight, and 
let infuse an hour; strain into the freezer without 
pressing, and stir in lightly the well beaten whites 
of twelve eggs. 

ORANGE ICE. 

Boil a cup and a half of sugar hi a quart of 
water, skimming when necessary; when cold add 
juice of half dozen oranges; steep the rinds in a 
little water, and strain into the rest; add the rind 
and juice of a lemon, and strain into the freezer 
and freeze like ice cream. 

PEACHES AND CREAM FROZEN. 

Peel and quarter the peaches; mix with sugar 
and cream; line a charlotte mold with some of the 
quarters and fill; freeze solid. 

Line a mold witli ice cream, and fill the center 
with berries or sliced fruit; cover with ice cream; 
cover closely and pack in ice for half an hour. The 
fruit must not be frozen. 

CREAM TAPIOCA. 
Soak a cup of tapioca all night in milk enough 
to cover; in the morning add nearly a cup of sugar 
and the yolks of three eggs beaten; put a quart of 
milk in a pail and set into a kettle of water on tlie 
fire; when the milk boils add the tapioca, and let 
it boil until thick; take from the fire; add flavor 
to taste, adding also the whites of the eggs beaten 
stiff. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

To the beaten yolks of five eggs add half a 
pound of grated pineapple and good cup full of 
fine sugar, little salt, and nearly a cup of boiled 
cream; set into a kettle of boiling water, and stir 
until it begins to thicken; set into an icecream 
freezer, and when cold add a half pint of cream 
whipped ; put into a mold until cold, and serve 
with cream. 



SNOW BALLS. 
Boil a cup of rice in water without breaking the 
grains; pare and core some good cooking apples; 
spread some of the rice on pudding cloths just 
large enough to cover an apple; set an apple in 
the center of the rice carefully, and boil or steam 
for an hour; when done serve with a nice lemon 
sauce. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

Beat two cups of sugar and half a cup of butter 
until light, then add four well beaten eggs, two 
grated crackers, the grated rind and juice of two 
lemou3_and half a pint of milk. 

RICE CHARLOTTE. 
Boil one cup of rice in one quart of milk, with 
sugar and seasoning to taste; when soft set to 
cool, and then add a pint of whipped cream; put 
into a mold alternate layers of rice and peaches, 
either fresh or preserved, and set on the ice until 
stiff. 

RICE CREAM. 

Boil a cup of rice in sweet milk until soft, 
adding sugar and salt to taste; pour into cups, 
and when cool, turn out into a dish, scoop a little 
piece out the top of each and fill the space with 
jelly; beat a cup of cream until stiff, sweeten, and 
season, and pour over the rice. 

LEMON JELLY. 
Soak a half box of gelatine in a cup and a half 
of warm water; when the gelatine is dissolved 
add a cup of sugar, the juice of three lemons, and 
a cup and a half of boiling water; add the white 
of an egg, beaten light, and the shell, and let 
come to a boil; strain into a mold and set away to 
cool. 

JELLIED GRAPES. 

Take about one-half cup of tapioca, two cups of 
grapes, three tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little 
more than a half cup of water; sprinkle the ta- 
pioca and grapes together in a pudding dish; pour 
over the water, cover closely, and bake very slowly 
for an hour and a half; eat warm with sauce, or 
cold with cream. 

APPLE CUSTARD, 

Stew until tender, in a very little water, a dozen 
apples; flavor with grated rind of a lemon; rub 
them through a sieve, and to three cups of the 
strained apple add nearly two cups of sugar; leave 
it until cold; beat five eggs very light, and stir 
alternately into one quart of rich milk with the 
apples; pour into a pudding dish and bake. To 
be eaten cold. 



28 



ALMOND FROSTING.— CREAM CAKE. 



CAKES. 



Use the best materials, and have everything 
ready before you begin mixing the materials. Al- 
ways sift the flour, adding to it the baking 
powder and mixing well. If it is Summer weather 
lay the eggs in cold water for a few minutes, and 
beat yolks and whites separately, very thoroughly. 
Mix butter and sugar to a cream, then add sugar, 
then the yolks of the eggs, then the milk and flour 
alternately in small quantities, then the whites. 

If fruit is used flour it well, and add the last 
thing. 

Bake slowly at first. 

Cookies, jumbles, ginger-snaps, etc., require a 
quick oven; if they become moist or soft by keep- 
ing, put again into the oven a few minutes. 

ALMOND FROSTING. 

Blanch some sweet almonds, and when cold 
pound in a mortar until pulverized : mix the 
whites of three eggs and three-fourths of a pint of 
powdered sugar; flavor with vanilla, and add the 
almonds. 

GELATINE FROSTING. 

Dissolve a tablespoonf ul of gelatine in half cup 
of boiling water and strain; thicken with pow- 
dered sugar and flavor. 

HICKORY-NUT FROSTING. 

Allow one cup of sugar to the white of one'egg; 
beat until very light, and add the hickory-nut after 
chopping very tine. 

APPLE CAKE. 

The grated rind and juice of one lemon, one 
sour apple, pared and grated, and one cup of 
sugar, boiled together for five minutes, make a 
jelly, which is to be spread between the layers of 
the following cake, to make which take— One cup 
sugar, butter, the size of an egg, one cup flour, 
one teaspoonful baking powder; bake in four 
layers. 

CITRON CAKE. 

; One cup butter, three of cups sugar, one cup of 
milk, three cups of flour, half cup of corn starch, 
two teaspoonf uls baking powder, one cup candied 
citron, and whites of twelve eggs. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One cup butter, three cups brown sugar, one 
cup milk, four cups of flour, yolks of seven eggs, 
two teaspoonfuls of baking jpowder, and cup of 
chocolate; bake in layers; make another cake with 
whiles of the eggs, as given the preceding recipe, 
and put together with frosting in alternate layers. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups sugar, one 
cup milk, two cups flour, one of corn starch, two 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, and whites of seven 
eggs; bake in a long shallow pan; take half cup 
milk, butter size of an egg, cup brown sugar, 
quarter pound chocolate; mix and boil until stiff, 
then add tablespoonful vanilla; spread on the 
cake, and set in the oven until dry. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One and a half cups of sugar, half cup of butter, 
one cup milk, three cups flour, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one cup chopped raisins, well 
floured, and added the last thing before putting 
into the oven ; spices to taste. 

COFFEE-CAKES. 

One pint warm milk, one coffeecup melted lard, 
one-half cup yeast; put in enough flour to make a 
stiff sponge, and set over nighl; in the morning 
add two cofleecups sugar, four eggs, one teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon; mold and set to rise again, after 
which roll one-half inch thick on a warm board; 
cut with small cutter, and fry; roll in pounded 
sugar, and place on separate plates till cool. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Cake : Pour a cup of boiling water over a cup of 
butter, add immediately two cups of flour; stir 
until smooth, and set away to cool; when cold add 
five eggs, and stir until well mixed; add a very 
little soda; butter a pan; drop in the mixture, a 
table-spoonful in a place, and bake in a quick oven. 

Cream: One pint milk; when boiling add half 
cup of flour, half cup sugar and two eggs mixed; 
stir until thick as cream, and then flavor with lemon 
or vanilla. Remove the tops from the cakes; fill 
the hollows with the cream and then replace. 



COOKIES.— SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 



29 



CREAM CAKE. 

Cake : One cup of white sugar, two eggs well 
beaten, one tablespoonful of butter, one-half cup 
of sweet milk, one- half teaspoonful of soda and 
one of cream of tartar, one and one-half cups of 
flour; add a little salt; beat thoroughly and bake 
quickly in llvd or six round tins. 

Cream : One and a half cups of sweet milk, 
one heaping tablespoonful of flour, rubbed 
smooth in the milk, one beaten egg, half a cup of 
white sugar; boil the whole together, stirring all 
.the time until quite thick; when cool flavor with 
lemon or any extract preferred, and spread be- 
tween each layer. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup milk, 
three eggs, flour enough to make a soft dough, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder; roll thin; sift 
over with sugar and bake. 

MRS. CAD WELL'S COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, one cup of 
molasses, two eggs, two teaspoonfuls soda, two 
teaspoonfuls ginger, flour to mix soft and roll 
them. 

COCOA-NUT COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, two cups 
of grated or prepared cocoa-nut, two eggs, flour 
enough to make a stiff batter, and teaspoonful of 
soda; drop on buttered paper in pans. 

DROP COOKIES. 

Four and a half cups of flour, two and a half of 
sugar, one of milk, one of shortening (half butter 
and lard,) three eggs, two teaspoonfuls baking 
powder, a very little nuimeg, and a few caraway 
seeds; rub the sugar and shortening to a cream, 
beat the eggs till very light, and stir thoroughly 
after adding the other ingredients; drop on but- 
tered tins, and bake quickly. 

RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

One pint of new milk, four teaspoonfuls of sugar, 
one-half cup of yeast, and a little salt; stir thick 
with flour, and let it rise over night; in^tlie morn- 
ing add as little flour as will make the dough thick 
enough to roll out about an inch thick; cut in 
squares of an inch and a half; as you drop them 
into the hot fat, stretch them out longer, and fry 
them thoroughly. Lard and suet, in equal pro- 
portions, boiling hot, is said to be better for 
frying cakes than eitlier alone. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

One cup of milk, one egg, one cup of sugar, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, half teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon, and flour enough to roll out. 

FRIED CAKES. 

One cup sweet raflk, one egg, one handful of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of half lard and half 
butter, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, a pinch 
of silt; mix soft, roll out, and fry in hot lard. 
Very good. 

FIG CAKE. 

One cup butter, two and a half cups sugar, one 
cup of milk, six cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, whites of sixteen eggs, one and a 
quarter pounds of figs, cut and floured— to be 
added last. 

FRUIT CAKE, PAR EXCELLENCE. 

One pound of flour, sifted well\ one pound of 
sugar, sifted well\ one pound of butter, two 
pounds of raisins, three pounds of currants, half 
pound of citron, half grated nutmeg, ten eggs, 
half teaspoonful of cinnamon, one goblet of equal 
parts brandy and milk. This makes a six quart 
pan of cake. 

GINGERBREAD. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 
molasses, five cups flour, three eggs, one cup sour 
milk, two tablespoonfuls ginger, one teaspoonful 
soda; mix quickly and bake. 

SOFT GINGERBREAD. 

Six cups of flour, one cup of butter, one cup of 
milk either sweet or sour, two cups of molasses, 
one cup of brown sugar, three eggs, one table- 
spoonful of ginger, one teaspoonful allspice, one 
teaspoonful cloves, one teaspoonful of cinnamon, 
one teaspoonful soda dissolved in the milk; this 
makes two large cakes. Half portion enough for 
a small family. 

SPONGE GINGERBREAD. 

Mix one cup of molasses, half cup of melted 
butter and tablespoonful of ginger; make them 
quite warm, and add teaspoonful soda, then add 
one cup of sour milk, two eggs beaten, and flour 
to make like pound cake. 



30 



HARD GINGERBREAD.— PUFF CAKE, 



HARD GINGERBREAD. 

To one quart flour allow one pint of molasses, 
in which lias been dissolved one dessertspoonful 
of soda; flavor with notiiing but ginger; do not 
handle too much, and roll and cut in any shape 
desired. 

GINGER-SNAPS. 

One cup sugar, one of molasses, one of lard or 
butter, two eggs, one teaspoonful of ginger, one 
of cinnamon, one tablespoonful of soda, one of 
vinegar, a little salt; dissolve the soda in a little 
warm water; add the vinegar to the soda; let it 
foam well, then add to the dough; mix hard, roll 
thin; bake quick. 

GINGER-SNAPS. 

Boil together one pint of molasses, sorghum is 
excellent for this, one teacupful of shortening, 
some consider beef suet the " snappiest," a pinch 
of salt, a tablespoonful of ginger: let it really boil 
for about two minutes, then set aside to cool; 
when cool, add two level leaspoonf uls of soda, and 
beat all together thoroughly; add flour to make a 
dough as soft as you can roll out very thin; cut 
into shapes, and bake in a hot oven, not too hot, 
as they scorch very easily, 

GINGER-SNAPS. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of brown sugar, 
one cup of butter or lard, one tablespoonful ginger, 
one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a very little 
hot water; mix very thick, and roll thin, 

GINGER DROPS. 

One cup lard, one cup molasses, one cup brown 
sugar, three eggs, tablespoonful ginger, one table- 
spoonful soda dissolved in a cup of boiling water, 
five cups of flour; drop in tablespoons on buttered 
paper in pans. 

GINGER POUND CAKE, WITH FRUIT. 

Three-fourths pound sugar, three-fourths pound 
butter, two pounds flour, six eggs, one quart 
molasses, one-half pound currants, one-rourth 
pound raisins, three tablespoonfuls ginger, one 
teaspoonful cloves, two teaspoonfuls cinnamon, 
three teaspoonfuls baking powder, three table- 
spoonfuls milk; mix all well, and bake one hour, 

HONEY CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of honey, four eggs 
well beaten, one tablespoonful essence of lemon, 



half a cupful sour milk, one teaspoonful soda, 
flour enough to make it as stiff as can well be 
stirred; bake at once in a quick oven. 

ICE CREAM CAKE. 

Make a sponge cake as follows: four eggs beaten 
separately, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, and 
one teaspoonful of baking powder; bake in layers, 
and let them get cold; take two cups of sweet 
cream, and beat untU light; sweeten and flavor 
with vanilla; pour hot water over a pound of 
almonds to remove the skin, chop fine and then 
mix with the cream; spread thickly between the 
layers of cake. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Four eggs, one cup of sugar, one cup of flour, 
one teaspoonful baking powder, pinch of salt; 
spread thin on long tins; flavor the jelly and 
spread on while hot and roll up. 

JUMBLES. 

Three-fourths cup of butter, one an a half 
cups of sugar, three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of 
milk, flour to roll, and teaspoonful of baking pow- 
der; roll; sprinkle with granulated sugar, gently 
roll it in; cut out, with a hole in center, and bake. 

PEACH CAKE. 

Bake sponge cake in layers; cut peaches in very 
thin slices, and spread upon the cake; sweeten, 
flavor, and whip some sweet cream, and spread 
over each layer, and over the top. 

PORCUPINE CAKE. 

One large cup white sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one egg, one cup sweet milk, one and one-half 
teaspoonfuls baking powder, two cups flour; mix 
above ingredients together as usual, and bake; 
when the cake is cold, and just before serving, 
pour the following cream over it. after having 
stuck a teacupful of soft almonds over the top of it: 

Cream : Two eggs, one quart milk, one cup 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls corn starch, one-half 
teaspoonful vanilla; dissolve the starch in a little 
mNk, add beaten eggs, sugar, and the rest of the 
milk, and cook as a custard. 

PUFF CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, three eggs, three-fourths 
cup of butter, one cup of milk, three cups of 
flour, two spoonfuls baking powder; bake quickly 
in loaf. 



POUND CAKE.— WHITE POUND CAKE. 



\\ 



POUND CAKE. 

One pound granulated sugar and one pound 
flour, both thoroughly sifted; three- fourths pound 
butter (well washed), ten eggs; separate the eggs; 
beat sugar and butter to a smooth cream with the 
hand; add the beaten yolks; then add a httle of 
both flour and white of eggs at a time, stirring 
briskly all the time until all is added; bake in a 
large pan, with cup or tube in center; a slow, 
steady fire is necessary. 

RIBBON TAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, half a cup of butter, three 
eggs, three-fourths cup of milk, flour to make the 
proper consistency, and a teaspoonful baking 
powder; take out one-third, and add to it a cup of 
raisins, one of currants, citron, spice, and table- 
spoonful of molasses; bake in layers, and put 
together with jelly while warm, having the fruit 
cake in the middle. 

RIBBON FIG CAKE. 

White Part : Two cups of sugar, two-thirds 
cup of butter, beaten to a cream; add two-thirds 
of a cup of milk and three cups of flour, alter- 
nately, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and 
then the whites of eight eggs, beaten light; bake 
in layers. 

Gold Pakt : Beat a little more than half a cup 
of butter and a cup of sugar to a cream ; add the 
jolksof seven eggs and one whole egg, well beaten, 
one-half cup of milk, and one and one-half cups of 
flour, mixed with one teaspoonful baking powder; 
season strongly with cinnamon and allspice. 

Put half the gold cake into a pan, and lay on it 
halved figs closely; dust with a little flour, and 
then put on the rest of the cake, and bake; put 
the gold cake between the white cakes, using 
frosting between them, and cover with frosting. 

SHORT CAKE. 

Take one pound of sifted flour, quarter pound 
of butter, and half as much lard, very little salt, a 
pinch of soda, well dissolved in just vinegar 
enough to cover it; work all well together with 
ice-cold water enough to make a stif3f dough; roll 
it into paste half an inch thick; cut it into cakes; 
pick the top with a fork, bake in a quick oven. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one-half 
cup of milk, five eggs, two cups of flour, teaspoon- 
ful each of cinnamon and allspice, nutmeg, essence 
of lemon, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 



SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, the yolks of eight eggs, three cups of 
flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking powder, one 
tablespoonful each of cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, 
and allspice. 

SEED CAKES. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup 
of milk, three eggs, two teaspoonfuls of caraway 
seeds, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one tea- 
spoonful of soda, and flour enough to roll them 
smooth. Half this recipe makes a good many. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

White Pabt : Two cups of pulverized sugar, 
two-thirds of a cup of butter, two-thirds of a cup 
of sweet milk, three cups of flour, whites of five 
eggs, one tablespoonful of baking powder. 

Red Part : One cup of red sugar, one-third of 
a cup of butter, one-third of a cup of sweet milk, 
two cups of flour, one tablespoonful of baking 
powder, yolks of. five eggs, half a pound of raisms. 

Put the red part in the center of the pan, and 
the white part on the outside. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

One pound of fine sugar, one pound of butter, 
one-half pound of citron chopped fine, one pound 
of flour, one pound of currants, twelve eggs, one 
and one-quarter pounds of raisins seeded and 
cliopped, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, two 
tablespoonfuls of nutmeg, two tablespoonfuls of 
cloves, wine-glass of best brandy ; stir lo a cream 
the butter and sugar; add the beaten yolks of the 
eggs, and stir all very well before putting in half 
the flour; then add spices, next the whipped 
whites stirred in alternately with the rest of flour; 
last, the fruit and brandy; bake three hours in a 
slow oven. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One cup of butter, three cups of sugar, beaten 
to a cream; four cups of flour and half cup of 
corn starch, added alternately, with a cup of sweet 
milk; two teaspoonfuls baking powder; flavor to 
taste ; lastly, the whites of twelve eggs, beaten to 
a stiff froth. 

WHITE POUND CAKE. 

One pound sugar, one-half pound butter, beaten 
to a cream; one pound of flour, two teaspoonfuls 
of baking powder, whites of sixteen eggs, beaten 
to a stiff froth and added last; put into a moderate 
oven and gradually increase the heat; cover with 
frosting while warm. 



BAKED EGGS.— CHEESE RELISH. 



EGGS AND OMELETS. 



BAKED EGGS. 

Break the eggs into a buttered dish and season; 
add small bits of butter and a little cream, bake 
fifteen minutes. 

' EGG TOAST. 

Beat four eggs, yolks and whites, together 
thoroughly; put two tablespoonfuls of butter into 
a saucepan and melt slowly; then pour in the 
eggs and heat icithout boiling over a slow fire, 
stirring constantly; add a little salt and when hot 
spread on slices of nicely-browned toast and serve 
at once. 

CHEESE OMELET. 

Butter the sides of a deep dish and cover with 
thin slices of rich cheese; lay over the cheese 
thin slices of well-buttered bread, first covering 
the cheese with a little red pepper and mustard; 
then anotlier layer of cheese; beat the yolk of an 
egg in a cup of cream— milk will do— and pour 
over the dish, and put at once into the oven; 
bake till nicely brown. Serve hot, or it will be 
tough, hard and worthless. 

BAKED OMELET. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs, and add the whites 
of three eggs beaten very light; salt and pepper to 
taste, a tablespoon ful of flour mixed in a cup of 
milk; pour into a well buttered pan and put into 
a hot oven; when thick pour over it the whites of 
three eggs beaten light, and brown. Serve im- 
mediately. 

BOILED EGGS, WITH SAUCE. 

Boil hard, remove the shell, set in a hot dish, 
and serve with piquante sauce. 

BAKED EGGS. 

Mix some finely chopped ham and breadcrumbs 
in about equal proportions, and season with salt 
and pepper, and moisten with milk and a little 
xaelted butter; half fill some patty pans with the 



mixture, break over the top of each an egg, 
sprinkle with fine bread crumbs, and bake; serve 
hot, 

SCRAMBLED EGGS WITH HAM. 

Put into a pan, butter, a little pepper and salt, 
and a little milk; when hot drop in the eggs, and 
with a knife cut the eggs and scrape them from 
the bottom ; add some cold ham chopped fine, and 
when done, serve in a hot dish. 

OMELET WITH OYSTERS. 

Allow one egg for each person, and beat, separ- 
ately, very light; season; just before cooking add 
the oysters which have been previously scalded in 
their own liquor. 

PROPER WAY TO {COOK EGGS. 

Butter a tin plate and break in your eggs; set 
in a steamer; place over a kettle of boiling water, 
and steam until the whites are cooked; they are 
more ornamental when broken into patty tins, as 
they keep their form better; the whites of the 
eggs, when cooked in this manner, are tender and 
light, and not tough and leathery, as if cooked by 
any other process; they can' be eaten by invalids, 
and they certainly are very much richer than by 
any other method; if cooked in the shell they taste 
of the lime contained in them, and if broken into 
boiling water, it destroys their flavor. 

TO PRESERVE EGGS. 

Pack them when perfectly fresh, in wheat bran, 
the small ends down, and so loosely as to prevent 
their coming in contact with each each other, or 
the sides or bottom of the vessel which contains 
them. Cover carefully with bran, well pressed 
down. 

A NICE CHEESE RELISH. 

Four ounces of flour, four ounces of cheese, and 
three of butter; salt, pepper, and a dash of cayenne 
pepper; knead it altogether, roll thin, cut in strips 
like lady's fingers, and bake a delicate brown. 



JELLIED APPLES.— CURRANT JELLY 



?>Z 



JELLIES, JAMS, PRESERVES, Etc. 



GENERAL HINTS. 

A flannel bag is the best for straining jelly. If 
possible avoid putting jelly in any stage in a metal 
vessel. For every pint of strained juice allow a 
pound of sugar. Granulated sugar is the best. 

In all cases it is best to boil tbe juice fifteen 
minutes before adding the sugar, tlius insuring 
the necessary evaporation, and avoiding the lia- 
bility to burn it. 

It is well also to heat the sugar before it is added, 
as in so doing the boiling process will not be 
interrupted. 

All jelly sliould be made over a moderate fire, 
and be carefully watched and skimmed. 

In making preserves, there must be no economy 
of time and care, and the fruit must be fresh. 

Boil without covering, and very gently. 

Jellies and jams must not be covered and put 
away imtil cold. 

Marmalades require constant stirring. 

In making jams, boil the fruit fifteen minutes 
before adding the sugar. 

Mash the fruit before cooking. 

JELLIED APPLES. 

Peel and core, whole, small-sized apples; put 
them into water enough to cover, with some lem- 
ons, and boil until tender, and then take out; 
make a syrup of one-half pound of sugar to one 
pound of fruit and put apples and lemons, sliced, 
into the syrup, and boil very gently until clear, and 
then skim out into a deep dish; to the syrup add 
an ounce of isinglass or gelatine dissolved in a 
little water, and let it boil a moment; garnish the 
apples with the lemon slices, and strain tlie syrup 
over them. 

APPLE JELLY. ^ 

Peel two dozen golden pippins or Margills, boil 
them with one quart of water and half an ounce 
of isinglass; when the isinglass is dissolved, and 
the apples reduced to a pulp, strain; add tlie juice 
of a lemon and the grated rind with a pound and 
a quarter of loaf sugar; boil togetlier twenty min- 
utes and strain. It is served at the table for 
sweetening apple pies. 



APPLE JELLY. 

Quarter the apples, and cover them with water; 
cook and strain them, and to a pint of juice put 
three-fourths of a pound of sugar; boil twenty 
minutes and flavor with lemon or vanilla, 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Procure the Siberian crab, pick out those that 
are perfectly firm; wash in water, and pour over 
them just enough water to cover; let them cook 
until soft, then strain through a jelly-bag; add one 
pound of sugar to one pint of juice; let boil 
twenty minutes. 

CRAB-APPLE JELLY. 

Take good sound crab-apples; cut in half; take 
out stems and blossoms; put in preserving kettle, 
and pour in cold water till the crab-apples are en- 
tirely covered; then place it over a slow fire, and 
allow ii to come to the boiling point, or until the 
apples are quite soft; strain them through a 
colander (not the pulp but simply the juice) into 
an earthen vessel, and let it stand over night; in 
the morning strain with care through a flannel 
jelly-bag, and measure; place it again in the 
preserving kettle and allow it to come slowly to 
boiling point; let it boil for fifteen minutes, and 
meanwhile skim with care; for every pint of this 
juice when strained, allow one pound of granu- 
lated sugar; place the sugar in a warm oven in 
shallow pans or plates and heat, take care not to 
have it warm enough to melt; when the juice 
has boiled fifteen minutes pour in the warm sugar, 
and letjall boil together about five minutes more; 
then'take from the fire and pour into jelly-glasses 
or bowls. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Mash the currants without heating, having 
removed them from the stems; strain through a 
flaiuiel bag; measure by pints, and place over the 
fire, in preserving kettle; let it boil fifteen minutes, 
carefully skimming; then for every pint of juice 
add a pound of heated sugar, and boii ten minutes 
longer, put in glasses or bowls, and seal. 



34 



CURRANT JELLY.— GREEN GAGES. 



CURRANT JELLY. 
This recipe has three advantages: First, it never 
fails, as the old plan is sure to do five times out of 
eight; secondly, it requires but half the usual 
quantity of sugar, and so retains the grateful 
acidity and peculiar flavor of the fruit; thirdly, it 
is by far less trouolesorae than the usual method. 
Weigh the currants without taking the trouble to 
remove the stems; do not wash them, but care- 
fully remove leaves and whatever may adhere 
to them; to each pound of fruit a'low half the 
weight of granulated or pure loaf sugar; put a 
few currants into a porcelain-lined kettle, and 
press them with a potato-masher, or any thing con- 
venient, in order to secure sufficient liquid to pre- 
vent burning; then add the remainder of the 
fruit and boil freely for twenty minutes, stirring 
occasionally to prevent burning; take out and 
strain carefully through a three-cornered bag of 
strong, close texture, putting the liquid into either 
earthen or wooden vessels— never in tin, as the 
action of the acid on tin materially affects both 
color and flavor; when strained, return the liquid _ 
to the kettle, without the trouble of measuring, 
and let it boil thoroughly for a moment or so, and 
then add the sugar; the moment the sugar is en- 
tirely dissolved, the jelly is done, and must be 
immediately dished, or placed in glasses; it will 
jelly upon the side of the cup as it is taken up, 
leaving no doubt as to the result. Gather the 
fruit early, as soon as fully ripe, since the pulp 
softens and the juice is less rich if allowed to re- 
main long after ripening. In our climate, the 
first week in July is usually considered the time 
to make currant jelly. Never gather currants or 
other soft or small seed fruit immediately after a 
rain for preserving purposes, as they are greatly 
impoverished by the moisture absorbed. In pre- 
serving all fruits of this class, it they are boiled 
until tender or transparent in a small quantity of 
water, and the sugar is added afterward, the hard- 
ness of the seeds, so objectionable in small fruits, 
will be thus avoided. A delicious jam may be 
made of blackberries, currants, and raspberries, 
or with currants with a few raspberries to flavor, 
by observing the above suggestion, and adding 
sugar, pound for pound, and boiling about twenty 
minutes. 

CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT COOKING. 

Press the juice from the currants, and strain it; 
to every pint put a pound of fine white sugar; 
mix them together until the sugar is dissolved; 
then put it in jars; seal them and expose them to 
a hot sun for two or three days. 



GRAPE JELLY. 
Grapes to be used before they are ripe— when 
just turning. Stem the grapes and slightly cook 
them; then strain and take a pint of sugar to a 
pint of juice. It makes the jelly of a light-red 
color, and much finer flavored than ripe grapes. 

APPLE JAM. 

Ten pounds of best cooking apples, pavx and 
slice; seven pounds of loaf sugar, the juice of 
three lemons, rind of one lemon, boil altogether 
slowly, stir and mash well; when they become 
clear, put into molds. The apples should be put 
in water, to preserve their color. 

APPLE PRESERVES. 

Take three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a 
pound of apples; make a syrup of the sugar and 
water, in which root ginger has been boiled until 
strongly flavored; add a few slices of lemon, and 
when the syrup is clear add the apples, a few at a 
time, and cook until transparent; pour the syrup 
over the apples when cold. 

CHERRY JAM. 

To each pound of cherries allow three-quarters 
of a pound of sugar; stone them, and as you do 
so, throw the sugar gradually into the dish with 
them; cover them, and let them set over night; 
next day boil slowly until the cherries and sugar 
form a smooth thick mass; put up in jars. 

DAMSON PRESERVES. 

To four pounds of damsons use three pounds 
of sugar; prick each damson with a needle; dis- 
solve the sugar with one-half pint of water, and 
put it on the fire; when it simmers put in as many 
damsons as will lie on the top; when they open, 
take them out and lay them on a dish, and put 
others in, and so on until all have been in; then 
put them all in the kettle together and let them 
stfcw until done; put them in jars and seal them. 

GREEN GAGE PRESERVES. 

When the fruit is ripe, wipe them clean, and to 
one pound of fruit put one-quarter pound of sugar, 
which will make a fine syrup; boil tiie fruit until 
it is perfectly done, in this syrup; then make a 
fresh syrup of one pound of fruit to one pound 
of sugar; moisten the sugar with water; when 
the syrup boils put in the fruit, and leave for 
fifteen minutes; then put the fruit in jars; boil 
the syrup until thick, and when only milk warm, 
pour it over the fruit; tie the jars tightly and keep 
in a warm place. 



CITRON PRESERVES.— RASPBERRY JAM. 35 



CITRON PRESERVES. 
Pare, core, and slice, or cut into fancy shapes; 
allow one pound of sugar to one pound of fruit; 
flavor with lemon and ginger root; slice tlie lemon 
and boil in water until clear; save the water and 
put the lemon into cold water until needed; put 
the ginger root into water and boil until the water 
is sufficiently flavored, and then remove; put the 
sugar into the ginger water and boil, and skim 
very thoroughly; then put in the citron and juice 
of the lemons, and boil until transparent; when 
almost done, add the lemon slices; skim out t'le 
citron carefully, and pour the syrup over them. 

GRAPE PRESERVES. 

Press with the fingers the pulp from the fruit; 
put the pulp on the fire and boil; then press the 
whole through a colander or sieve to remove the 
seeds; put juice, pulp, and skins together, and to 
every pint add a pound of sugar, and boil until 
thick. 

NONPAREIL PRESERVES. 

Take cucumbers as near uniform size as possible, 
about half grown, and lay in strong' brine for six 
or seven days; wash and soak them twenty-four 
hours in clear water, changing it three or four 
times; take a metal kettle, and line it with grape 
leaves, lay in the cucumbers with some alum 
sprinkled, in, and cover with clear water and vine 
leaves; then cover the kettle close, and green them 
as if for pickles, but not boil them; when greened, 
put them in ice water; after they have become 
perfectly cold, slit them open on one side, and with 
a small knife take out the seeds; then stuff them 
with a mixture of chopped citron and raisins, 
then sew them up; weigh them, and for. every 
pound of cucumbers allow a pound of sugar and 
a pint of water; let the water and sugar boil, and 
after thoroughly skimming it drop in the cucum- 
bers; let them boil slowly for half an hour, and 
then take them out and put in the sun on a shal- 
low dish, and allow the syrup to boil down, after 
which add some few slices of ginger root, put back 
the cucumbers, and let all boil again about five 
minutes; take out, put in glass jars, and seal when 
cold. These sweetmeats improve with age. 

PINEAPPLE PRESERVES. 
Pare and core and cut in small slices on a slaw- 
cutter; to a pound of pineapple put one pound of 
sugar; let it boil twenty minutes; put in jars, and 
cover with egg papers. 

PINEAPPLE JAM. 
Pare, core, and grate fine on a grater* then pro- 
ceed the sanie as for pineapple preserves. 



PEAR PRESERVES. 

Preserve as directed for quince preserves, and 
flavor with ginger-root and lemon, or with a few 
cloves stuck into the fruit. 

PEACH PRESERVES. 

Pare the fruit carefully and remove the pits; 
boil the pits in water until all the flavor is ex- 
tracted, allowing one-half a pint for each pound 
of fruit; add more as it evaporates; add the sugar; 
skim carefully, and when clear, add the peaches, 
a few at a time; cook gently for twelve minutes, 
and then skim out carefully, and add more until 
all are done; then pour the syrup over the whole; 
the next day drain off the syrup and boil a few min- 
utes, and pour again over the fruit; repeat this 
for three or four days in succession until the fruit 
is clear. 

PLUM PRESERVES. 

"Wash and prick the plums and lay in a stone 
jar; allow a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; 
make a rich syrup, and pour, while hot, over the 
plums, and cover closely; drain off and boil the 
syrup for four successive days, and put all together 
in the kettle and boil for half an hour. 

QUINCE PRESERVES. 

Pare, core, and quarter the fruit; boil In clear 
water enough to cover until they are tender; make 
a syrup with two pounds of sugar and a pint of 
water; when boiling hot, add the quinces; allow 
three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit; use parings and cores for jelly. 

STRAWBERRY OR RASPBERRY JAM. 

To one pound of berries allow one and one- 
quarter pounds of sugar; heat an earthen bowl 
hot on the stove, then remove it from the stove and 
put into it the berries and sugar, and beat them 
hard with a wooden spoon for as much as an hour 
and a half; do not cook at all; put in jars with 
egg papers. 

RASPBERRY JAM. 

Allow one pound of sugar to a pound of berries, 
and one pint of currant juice to five pounds of 
berries, adding one extra pound of sugar for each 
pint of currant juice; mix tiie berries and sugar 
in layers, then mash the berries with potato- 
masher; add currant juice and let boil one half- 
hour; put in tumblers, cover with egg papers, 
while hot; make blackberry, strawberry, and cur- 
rant jam the same way, omitting the currant juice. 



36 



WATERMELON RINDS.— APPLE BUTTER. 



TO PRESERVE WATERMELON RINDS. 

Soak the fruit in salt water three days, in fresh 
water three days: boil in alum water; soak in 
fresh water over a day and night, changing the 
water several times; boil in ginger water; to one 
pound of fruit, one and one-fourth pounds of 
sugar, and put in ginger and mace; flavor with 
oil of lemon. 

TO PRESERVE WATERMELON RINDS. 

After cutting your rind properly, boil it in clean 
water with vine leaves between each layer; a piece 
of alum, the size of a hickory nut, is sufficient for 
a kettlefui; after boiling it, put it into ice- water to 
cool; then repeat this a second time, each time 
putting it to cool; each time boiling one hour; 
prepare the syrup with one and one-fourth pounds 
of sugar to each pound of fruit; green ginger 
boiled in the water you make your syrup with 
flavors it, or three lemons to six pounds of fruit; 
if the syrup thickens too fast, add a little water; 
the rind should be boiled in the water until clear 
and green. 

APPLE MARMALADE. 

Twelve pounds of apples, three pounds of brown 
sugar, three lemons; boil slowly, masli well. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Separate the pulp from the skin; boil the skins 
until very tender, then chop fine; separate as much 
as possible the white part from the yellow— using 
only the yellow; then to every pound of pulp and 
skins add one pound of sugar, and boil twenty 
minutes. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

Allow three-fourths of a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit; peel and quarter the oranges; re- 
move carefully the inner skin from the peels, and 
boil in a large quantity of water for two hours, 
changing the water and renewing with hot; then 
cut into fine shreds; press the inside of oranges 
through a sieve; put into the preserving kettle 
with a little water, and after it has boiled a few 
moments add the sugar and shredded peel, and 
boil twenty minutes; the rind and juice of lem- 
ons in the proportion of one to five is an improve- 
ment. 

PEACH MARMALADE. 

Use three-fourths of a pound of sugar to a 
pound of fruit; boil the pits until the water is 
well flavored; peel and quarter the peaches, and 
add to the water boiling, half an hour before 
adding the sugar; stir constantly; boil an hour 
after adding tlie sugar. 



QUINCE MARMALADE. 

Ten pounds of ripe yellow quinces, wash clean, 
pare and core them and cut them into small 
pieces. To each pound of quinces allow half a 
pound of white sugar; put the parings and cores 
into a kettle, with enough water to cover them; 
boil slowly until quite soft: then, having put the 
quinces with the sugar into a porcelain kettle, 
strain over them, through a cloth, the liquid from 
the parings, and cover; boil the whole over a clear 
fire until it becomes quite smooth and thick, keep- 
ing it covered except when you are skimming it, 
and watching and stirring closely to prevent stick- 
ing at the bottom; when cold, put in glass jars. 

CREMATED APPLES. 

Choose apples that will cook nicely, that is, will 
cook without breaking into pieces; pare and core 
them whole; make a syrup with a pound of sugar 
and a pint of water; put in the apples and boil 
gently until about Ihree-fourthsdone; skim them 
out and place them for a few minutes into a quick 
oven; boil down tlie syrup, and when the apples 
are taken from the oven and still hot, fill the 
center with marmalade, and roll each apple in the 
syrup; put them on a dish in the form of a dome, 
or as you may desire, and pour over them a 
meringue of eggs and sugar, and set into the oven 
to brown. ' 

JELLIED ORANGES. 

Boil small oranges in water until they can be 
easily pierced with a straw, and then cut in quar- 
ters; allow half a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit, and make a clear syrup; put in the fruit and 
cook over a slow fire until the fruit is clear; then 
s ir in an ounce of isinglass and let it boil again; 
first take out the oranges and strain the jelly over 

them. 

PIE PLANT. 

Cut in pieces, put into a baking-dish in layers 

wilh an equal weight of sugar; cover closely and 

bake. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Fill a very large kettle with cider, and boll it 
untd reduced to one-half the original quantity; 
then have ready some fine juicy apples, pared, 
cored, and quartered, and put as many into the 
kettle as can be kept moist by the cider; stir it 
frequently, and when the apples are stewed quite 
soft, take them out with a skimmer that has holes 
in it, and put them into a tub; then add more 
apples to the cider, and stew them soft in the same 
manner, stirring them nearly all the time with a 
Slick; have at hand some more boiled cider to thin 



LEMON BUTTER.^GREEN GAGE PLUMS. 



Z7 



the apple butter in case you should find it too thick 
in the bottle; at night leave the apples to cool in a 
tub, covered with cloths, and finish the next day 
by boiling the apples and cider till the consistence 
is that of soft marmalade and the color a very dark 
brown; twenty minutes or one-half hour before 
you finally take from the fire, add powdered cin- 
namon, cloves, and nutmeg to your taste; if the 
spice is boiled too long, it will lose its flavor; when 
cold put into stone jars and cover closely; it must 
not be boiled in a brass or metal kettle, on account 
of the verdigris which the acid will collect in it, 
and which will render the apple butter extremely 
unwholesome, not to say poisonous. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

One-half bushel of pippin apples, one gallon of 
sweet, fresh cider, cook thoroughly and put 
through a colander; place on the fire and add six 
pounds of white sugar; stir constantly while cook- 
ing, to prevent burning; in the course of two or 
three hours take a little out in a dish, and if it has 
a watery appearance, it should be cooked longer, 
or until quite thick. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

The grated rind and juice of three lemons, three- 
fourths of a pound of sugar, one-half pound of 



butter, five eggs ; beat eggs and sugar well, then 
add the juice, rind, and butter; mix well and set 
over a kettle of boiling water till it is as thick as 
honey; stir it occasionally while cooking. 

PEACH BUTTER. 

To one bushel of peaches allow from eight to 
ten pounds of granulated sugar; pare and halve 
the peaches, put into the kettle, and stir constant- 
ly (to prevent sticking to the kettle) until per- 
fectly smooth and rather thick; a part of the 
peach-stones thrown in and cooked with the 
peaches give it a nice flavor, and they can be af- 
terward skimmed out; arid the sugar a short time 
before taking from the fire; put in jars and cover 
tight; peaches for butter should be neither too 
mealy nor too juicy. 

PLUM BUTTER. 

One peck of plums, one-half bushel of sweet 
apples; cook the apples and plums in separate 
kettles until quite soft, only putting in enough 
water to prevent sticking to the bottom of the 
kettle; when soft, put through a colander, and 
then to each pound of mixture allow three-fourths 
of a pound of white sugar; let it cook for a short 
time, and bottle. 



Canned Fruit, Vegetables, Etc 



All fruits should be fresh and ripe; granulated 
sugar should always be used, and also. a porcelain 
kettle. Put the bottles in a pan or kettle of cold 
water, place on the stove until the water is boiling 
before filling with the fruit. Do not use an iron 
spoon. In preserving allow a pound of sugar to 
one pound of fruit; these can be put in jars with 
egg papers. In canning fruit great care should 
be taken to have the jars perfectly air tigiit. Keep 
in cool, dark place. 

CHERRIES. 

Take Musilla cherries, wash and remove the 
pits; allow a pound of sugar to one pound of 
fruit; make a syrup of sugar with the juice and 
sufficient water to cover the cherries; boil from 
five to ten minutes, turn into bottles and seal. 
Some prefer one pint of sugar to one quart of 
pitted cherries. 



BLACK RASPBERRIES AND BLACKBERRIES. 

To one quart of berries allow one pint of sugar; 
boil fifteen minutes and put in air-tight jars. 

GREEN GAGE PLUMS. 

After stemming and washing the fruit, fill the 
jars full, placing them in a boiler of cold water, 
just enough not to have the water boil over the 
top of the jars into the fruit; after boiling one- 
half hour, or until the fruit begins to be tender, 
lift out the jars, and turn off the juice that may 
accumulate into a porcelain kettle, and sufficient 
sugar to make a rich syrup; when it boils, fill up 
the jars, let them stand in the boiling water ten or 
fifteen minutes longer, then lift out, one at a time, 
and seal. All kinds of plums are nice put up in 
the same manner. 



GRAPES.— STRING BEANS. 



GRAPES. 

Stew, wash and weigh the fruit. For preserves, 
add one pound of sugar to a pound of fruit; for 
canning, one-half pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit, and remove the pulp; put the skins and pulp 
in separate dishes; cook the pulp and strain 
through a sieve, then add the skins and sugar. 
For canning, cook fifteen minutes; for preserving 
a little longer. 

TO CAN PEACHES. 

Pare and halve the peaches; pack them in tin 
cans as close as they can possibly be put; make a 
syrup of six pounds of sugar to one gallon of cold 
water; let this stand until well dissolved, then pour 
the cold syrup over the peaches, until the cans are 
even full, after which solder perfectly tight, place 
the cans in a boiler; cover well with cold water; 
set it on the fire and let the water boil five min- 
utes, then take the cans out and turn them upside 
down; one gallon of syrup will do one dozen cans. 

RICH CANNED PEACHES. 

Pare and stone peaches about enough for two 
jars at a time, if many are pared they will become 
dark colored standing; rinse in cold water, then 
cook in a rich syrup of sugar and water about fif- 
teen or twenty minutes, or until they are clear; 
put into your jars all that are not broken; fill up 
with the hot syrup, about as thick as ordinary mo- 
lasses, and seal. Same syrup will do to cook two 
or three more jars. After the syrup becomes dark 
this with the broken peaches, can be used for 
marmalade or peach butter. Same rule can be 
used for pears, plums, and all light fruits that you 
desire rich. 

CANNED PEACHES. 

Peel and quarter choice peaches— to peel, place 
in a wire basket, dip into boiling water a moment 
and then into cold water, and strip off the skins- 
have a porcelain kettle with boiling water and 
another with syrup made with granulated sugar; 
drop the peaches into boiling water— some pre- 
viously boil the pits in the water for their flavor— 
and let them cook until tender, and then lift out 
carefully into a can, pouring over them all the 
syrup the can will hold, and seal immediately. 
Cook only peaches enough to fill one can at a time. 
Plums are canned in the same manner. 

QUINCES. 
Select fair, nice apple quinces (the inferior ones 
can be used for jelly or marmalade), pare and cut 
in quarters, removing the core; for each pound of 
them take three-quarters of a pound of sugar, a 
quart of cold water; dissolve the sugar in the water 



over a moderate fire; let it boil, then remove frotn 
the fire; when cool, put in the quinces. If 
there is not more than enough water to cover 
them, more should be added so the syrup will be 
tnin. If too rich, the quinces will be hard and 
shrink. Boil them gently until a broom straw will 
go through them easily. Keep them covered while 
boiling, that they may be light colored. Put in 
bottles and seal. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

Procure fresh, large strawberries when in their 
prime, but not so ripe as to be very soft; hull and 
weigh them; take an equal weight of sugar, make 
a syrup, and, when boiling hot, put in the berries. 
A small quantity should he only done at once. If 
crowded, they will become mashed. Let them 
boil about twenty minutes, or a half an hour; turn 
into tumblers or small jars, and seal with egg 
papers while hot. 

CANNED STRAWBERRIES. 

Fill glass jars with fresh strawberries, sprinkled 
with sugar, allowing a little over one quarter of a 
pound of sugar to pound of berries; set the jars 
in a boiler, with a little hay laid in the bottom to 
prevent the jars from breaking, filled with cold 
water to within an inch or two of the lops of the 
jars: let them hoil fifteen minutes; then move 
back and wrap the hand in a towel, and take out 
the jars; fill the jars to the top before sealing, 
using one or more of the jars for that purpose. 
CORN. 

Fill the cans with the uncooked corn (freshly 
gathered) cut from the cob, and seal them her- 
metically; surround them with straw to prevent 
them striking against each other, and put them 
into a boiler over the fire, with enough cold water 
to cover them; heat the water gradually, and 
when they have boiled an hour and a half, punc- 
ture the tops of the cans to allow the escape of 
gases, then seal them immediately while they are 
still hot; continue to boil them for two hours and 
and a half. 

CANNED TOMATOES. 

Pour hot water over the tomatoes to remove the 
skins, and then slice; put into a porcelain kettle 
and cook for a few minutes; have the cans filled 
with hot water on the hearth; when the tomatoes 
are sufficiently cooked, empty the cans and fill 
them with tomatoes, and seal immediately. 

STRING BEANS. 
Remove the strings at the sides, and cut into 
pieces about an inch long; put them into boiling 
water and scald, then can them. 



CUCUMBERS.— PICKLED ONIONS 



3^ 



PICKLES. 



CUCUMBERS. 

Take small cucumbers, put them in a large stone 
jar; to a four-gallon jar full put enough water to 
cover; one quart of salt, and alum the size of a 
walnut ; turn ofif the brine, and scald every day, 
putting it on boiling hot, for nine days; then wash, 
and soak over night, if too salt; put into jars or 
bottles; add whole cinnamon, cloves, mace, all- 
spice, and peppers (green peppers preferred); 
scald the vinegar, and pour on hot. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Make a brine of salt and water, put in the cu- 
cumbers, and let them remain nine days, pouring 
ofif the brine, and scalding it every second day; on 
the ninth day, take some cider vinegar, which, if 
very strong, dilute with one-third water; have it 
boiling hot, and pour over the pickles, having first 
covered them with vine or cabbage leaves; ,then 
take cider vinegar, and sweeten, say from one and 
one-half pounds to two pounds of sugar to one 
gallon of vinegar; have ready the spices, and put 
all into the vinegar; while heating, turn ofif the 
first vinegar, and pour this over them; exclude 
them entirely from the air. It Uked, add grated 
horse-radish. 

CUCUMBER PICKLES. 

Lay the cucumbers in good brine for twenty- 
four hours, then take them out and scald them in 
equal parts of vinegar and waier, (a brass kettle 
is best) in alternate layers of pickles and grape- 
vine leaves, then put them in a jar, and pour the 
hot vinegar and water over them ; let them stand 
over night; then take the vinegar and water and 
pour over again for three successive days; at the 
end of that time pour off the old vinegar and 
cover the pickles withfresh vinegar, and add small 
red peppers to taste. 

PICKLED PEPPERS. 

Cut the stems out in a round circle with a sharp 
penknife, and preserve them; fill each pepper with 
a mixture of fine-chopped cabbage, horse-radish, 
mustard seed, and salt; wash the peppers in cold 
water, then fill, replace the piece cut out, tie with 
coarse thread, pack in stone jars, and fill up with 



They will be ready for use 



cold, sharp vinegar. 

in two weeks. 

PICKLING CAULIFLOWER. 

Take good white heads, break them into small 
pieces and boil for ten minutes in strong salt and 
water; skim out the pieces, which should be so 
tender that a spUnt of broom corn can be run 
through the stems; lay them on a towel to drain 
off the water, and when thoroughly cold, put them 
into a pickle-jar, with a few whole cloves, allspice, 
pepper, and sticks of cinnamon, tied up in a cloth ; 
boil and skim thoroughly, then pour it directly 
over the cauliflower. 

RADISH-POI) PICKLES. 

Gather when young and tender, put them into 
brine over night, then boil this brine and pour it 
over the pods in jars, covering closely to keep the 
steam in; when the brine is cold, repeat this, and 
do so until the pods are green; then drain them 
and pour over them boiling hot vinegar, with 
mace, ginger, long peppers, and horse-radish in 
it, wiien nearly cold, pour off the vinegar, boil it 
once more, and again pour over the pods; when 
cold tie down and set away. 

FRENCH PICKLES — DELICIOUS. 

One colander of sliced green tomatoes, one'quart 
of sliced onions, one colander of cucumbers, pared 
ana sliced, two good handfuls of salt; let all stand 
twenty-four hours, then drain through a sieve; 
one-half ounce of celery seed, one-half ounce of 
allspice, one teacupf ul of black pepper, one table- 
spoonful turmeric, one pound of brown sugar, 
two tablespoonf uls of mustard, one gallon of vine- 

^^^' PICKLED ONIONS. 

Select small white onions, put them over the 
fire in cold water, with a handful of salt; when 
the wa^er becomes scalding hot, take them out 
and peel off the skins; lay them in a cloth to dry, 
then put them in a jar; boil half an ounce of all- 
spice and half an ounce of cloves in a quart of 
vinegar; take out the spice and pour the vinegar 
over the onions while it is hot; tie up the jar when 
the vinegar is cold, and keep it in a dry place. 



40 



CHOW CHOW.— HIGDOM, 



SPANISH PICKLED ONIONS. 

Cut onions into slices; put a layer of them in a 
jar. sprinkle witli salt and cayenne pepper, then 
add a layer of onions and season as before; pro- 
ceed in this way until the jar is full, and pour cold 
vinegar over all till covered. Will be fit to use in 
a mouth. 

CHOW CHOW. 

Take six cucumbers just before they ripen, peel 
thym, cut in strips, and remove the seed; four 
white onions, six good-sized green tomatoes, and 
half a head of cabbage; chop all fine, let them 
stand in salt water over night, then pour off the 
water, and add vinegar and spices to suit the taste. 

ENGLISH CHOW CHOW. 

One-quarter of a peck of green beans, one 
quart of small onions, one quart of green sliced 
tomatoes, two dozen small cucumbers, one dozen 
small green peppers, one dozen chopped red pep- 
pers, one cauliflower, two ounces of white mustard 
seed, the same quantity of black mustard seed, 
one-half pound of yellow ground mustard, one- 
fourth of a teacupful of sweet oil, one tablespoon- 
ful of turmeric powder, one teaspoonful of celery 
seed; scald the beans, onions, peppers, cauliflower, 
tomatoes, and cucumbers in vinegar, and drain 
through a colander; then place in a jar; put on 
the fire fresh vinegar sufficient to cover the pickle, 
and put into it all the seed and two-thirds of the 
ground mustard; let it boil some minutes, then 
mix the remainder of the mustard, the turmeric, 
and oil together; stir in and let it boil up once, 
and pour over the pickle. 

RED CABBAGE AND CAULIFLOWER. 

Pull the loose leaves, quarter the cabbage, put 
them in a large jar with alternate layers of salt 
and cabbage, and let them stand for several days; 
then scald some vinegar, with pepper-corns, mace, 
and cinnamon in proportion of an ounce each to 
a gallon of vinegar; add a small piece of alum, 
and turn this over the cabbage in the brine, which 
should remain with it; cloves and allspice are 
good, but turn the cabbage darker; the vinegar 
should be scalded three or four times, and poured 
over the cabbage, to make it tender. Cauliflower 
is pickled in the same way. 

PICKLED CABBAGE. 

Take the outside leaves off a red cabbage, cut 
in thin slices, place in a jar, pour boiling spiced 
vinegar over it; when cold, cover tightly; in ten 
days it will be fit for use. 



TOMATO CHOW CHOW. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes, one dozen 
onions, one-half dozen green peppers, all chopped 
fine; sprinkle over the mess one pint of salt; let 
it stand over night, then drain off the brine; cover 
it with good vinegar, let cook one hour slowly, 
then drain and pack in jars; take two pounds of 
sugar, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one of all- 
spice, one of cloves, one of pepper, one-half cup 
of ground mustard, one pint of grated horse- 
radish, and vinegar enough to mix them; when 
boOing hot, pour over the mess packed in a j r, 
and cover tight; then it is ready for use and wiil 
keep for years. 

CHOPPED TOMATOES. 

To one gallon of tomatoes, chopped fine, take 
one teacup of salt, sprinkle, and let stand over 
night; drain through a colander, then add one ta- 
blespoonful of ground cloves, one of allspice, two 
of cinnamon, three of ground mustard, two of 
black pepper, four of green pepper, chopped fine, 
one head of cabbage; cover with cold vinegar; 
three or four onions, if liked. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 
Put the peppers in salt and water a few days; 
then remove the seeds; chop cabbage and sprinkle 
with salt; in a few hours, drain the water from 
the cabbage, and season with mustard or celery 
seed, or a mixture of each; fill the peppers with 
the cabbage and seed, and sew them up; cover 
with hot vinegar. 

HAYES PICKLES. 
One peck green tomatoes, sliced, six large on- 
ions, sliced; mix these and throw ever them a tea 
cup of salt, and let them stand twelve hours; then 
drain thoroughly and boil in one quart of vinegar 
mixed with two quarts of water, for twenty min- 
utes; then take two pounds of brown sugar, half 
pound white mustard seed, two tablespoonfuls 
ground cloves, cinnamon, ginger, mustard, and 
allspice, with four quarts of vinegar; put all 
together and boil twenty minutes. 

HIGDOM. 
One-half bushel of green tomatoes, two large 
heads of cabbage, one-half dozen of green cucum- 
bers, one dozen onions, one dozen green peppers, 
chopped fine, and prepared as piccalilli, all except 
the chopped pepper, which is put in after the 
scalding; use ground cinnamon, allspice, and 
cloves, a little black mustard seed, and celery seed, 
one gallon of vinegar, and four pounds of granu- 
lated sugar, scalded in the vinegar. 



PICCALILLI.— SPICED CHERRIES. 



41 



PICCALILLI. 

One-half bushel of green tomatoes, one-half peck 
of onions; slice, sprinkle salt through them and 
let stand over night; ia the morning drain off the 
water; put over the fire with enough weak vine- 
gar to cover; let simmer slowly until a little ten- 
der, but not cooked to pieces; drain in a colander, 
and put a layer of the pickle in a jar; sprinkle 
over black mustard seed, gi'ound pepper, cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice, and a little sugar; continue 
in this way till the jar is filled; sprinkle plenty of 
spice over the top, pour over cold 8trc::g vinegar, 
cover tight, and set away. 

PICCALILLL 

One peck of green tomatoes, one dozen onious, 
six red peppers, one-half ounce of ginger, one- 
quarter of an ounce of mace, one tablespoon ful 
of black pepper, one box of mustard, five cents' 
worth of celery seed, mustard seed to taste, one 
pound of brown sugar; slice tomatoes, onions, and 
peppers, put in a jar with salt mixed well through; 
let stand twenty-four hours; drain off and boil in 
vinegar (after adding the spices) until clear. 

SWEET PICCALILLL 

Take tomatoes just turning, wash, and, without 
paring, slice thick; put into a crock, with salt 
sprinkled between the layers, and let stand over 
night; in the morning drain and make a rich syrup 
of vinegar, sugar, and spice, cinnamon, mace, and 
cloves; put a few of the tomatoes into the syrup, 
and let them simmer slowly; take out before they 
are cooked to pieces, and put into a crock on the 
back of the stove; continue in this way with the 
tomatoes until all are used; if the syrup gets too 
thin, make fresh; pour over the tomatoes and 
cover tight. 

MIXED PICKLES. 

One peck of green tomatoes, half a peck of 
onions, one pint of grated horse-radish, half a 
pound of wiiite mustard seed, one pound of 
ground mustard, half a pound of unground black 
pepper, three or four green peppers, one ounce 
each of cinnamon, cloves, and turmeric, and two or 
three heads of cauliflower; tie the pepper, cinna- 
mon, and cloves in a muslin bag, place in a tin or 
earthenware dish, and boil until tender; can, 
while hot, in glass fruit jars. 

MABTINOES. 
Pick from the vines before they get tough; put 
them in weak brine for three days, then let them 
drain, and pour over them boiling vinegar, spiced 
with cloves and cinnamon. 



YELLOW PICKLE. 

One-half pound of white mustard seed, one- 
quarter pound of black mustard seed, one ounce 
of turmeric, one-quarter ounce of cayenne: the 
above quantity for a six-gallon jar of pickle; white 
cauliflower cut, white cabbage sliced fine and 
long, one-half dozen large onions sliced fine, one- 
half dozen small onions whole, one-half dozen 
small cucumbers whole, one-half dozen large cu- 
cumbers cut; if they can be procured, nasi urtion 
radish pods, string beans, and green grapes; put 
all in brine for twenty hours, then strain and pour 
on boiling vinegar sufficient to just cover the 
pickle, into which has been put the above spices 
and turmeric; mix a pint bowl of mustard as for 
the table, and add after the pickle has cooled; to 
get the required quantity of vinegar, measure the 
brine when turned off; the vinegar should only 
just cover the pickle. 

NASTURTIONS. 

Take those that are small and green, put them in 
salt and water, changing it twice in the course of a 
week; when you have done collecting them, turn 
off the brine and turn on scalding vinegar, with 
a little alum in it. 



SPICED APPLES. 

Three pounds of apples, pared; four pounds of 
sugar, one quart of vinegar, one ounce of stick 
cinnamon, half an ounce of cloves; boil the sugar, 
vinegar and spices together; put in the apples 
when boiling, and let them remain until tender; 
take them out, put into a jar; boil down the syrup 
until it is thick, and pour it over. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

Four quarts currants (ripe), three and one-half 
pounds brown sugar, one pint vinegar, one table- 
spoonful allspice, one tablespoonful cloves, and a 
little nutmeg; boil an hour, stirring occasionally. 
Gooseberries and cherries may be spiced in the 
same manner. 

SPICED CHERRIES. 

Four pounds of cherries, two pounds of sugar, 
one tablespoonful of cinnamon, one of cloves; 
heat one pint of vinegar; pour on hot, three days 
in succession. 



42 SPICED GRAPES.— CANTALOUPE PICKLES. 



SPICED GRAPES. 

Eight quarts of seeded grapes, two ounces of 
ground cloves, two of cinnamon, tliree and one- 
half pounds of sugar; boil two hours. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Boil and strain through a colander, to remove 
the skins and seeds, six pounds of grapes, and add 
to the grapes three pounds of sugar, one pint of 
vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of cinnamon, one 
each of cloves and mace; boil one hour. 

SPICED FRUIT. 

Three pounds of sugar to one pint of good vin- 
egar, a teacupful of broken cinnamon, one table- 
spoonful of cloves whole, a very little mace; this 
will spice about one peck of peaches; put all in a 
kettle and simmer slowly fifteen or twenty min- 
utes; the fruit should be pared; when done put 
in small jars and cover with egg papers. 

SPICED PEACHES. 

Pare, and if very large, halve one peck fine Craw- 
ford peaches; to one pint of vinegar allow three 
pounds of white sugar, and of this make a rich 
syrup; drop into the syrup a small handful of 
broken cinnamon, a very little cloves and mace, 
and a few pieces of ginger root; when boiling add 
as many peaches as the syrup will cover, and let 
them simmer about ten minutes, then take out 
carefully with a spoon, put into jars, then cook 
more peaches in the same syrup; when all are 
cooked, make fresh syrup and pour over them in 
the jars. 

SPICED PEARS OR PEACHES. 

Ten pounds of fruit, five pounds of sugar, one- 
half pint of vinegar; mace, cinnamon and cloves 
tied in a bag; boil the pears until clear; then scald 
thoroughly in the syrup; boil it down, and pour 
over the pears. 

SPICED PLUMS. 

One peck of plums, seven pounds of vinegar, 
spice lo taste; let boil down thick; before taking 
from the fire, add one pint of vinegar. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Take nice large ripe cherries, remove the stones, 
take a large glass jar and fill two-thirds full of 
cherries, and fill up full with best vinegar; keep 
it well covered; no boiling or spice is necessary, 
as the cherry flavor will be retained and the cher- 
ries will not shrivel. 



PICKLED PEACHES. 

One gallon of vinegar, four pounds of brown 
sugar; take cling-stone peaches, rub them with a 
flannel, stick two or three cloves in each ; put them 
into a glass or earthen vessel, and pour the liquor 
on them boiling hot: cover them, and let them 
stand a week or ten days; then pour off the liquor 
and boil it as before, after which return it boiling 
to the peaches, which should be covered closely. 
Let the vinegar and sugar, in the first place, just 
come to a boil. 

SWEET PICKLED PEACHES. 

Select ripe, but firm fruit, free from blemishes; 
peel them carefully; allow a pound of sugar to a 
pint of good cider vinegar; place cloves and cin- 
namon in a bag and boil in the vinegar; when the 
vinegar has comie to a boil, drop in the peaches, (a 
few at a time) and let them remain till done 
through, but not soft or broken; then remove 
them carefully with a skimmer, and place them in 
jars; repeat this process till all are done, then fill 
up the jars with the remaining vinegar, and seal 
while warm. In the same manner may be made 
sweet pickled pears, plums, crab-apples, and 
cherries. 

PICKLED PLUMS. 

Wash the plums clean and put into jars, and for 
two quarts of plums make a rich syrup of two 
pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar, with spice; 
put the plums in jars, and pour over them the 
hot syrup. 

PICKLED CANTALOUPES. 

Select those of rough rind and quite ripe; take 
out the seeds, pare, and cut them in small square 
pieces, and cover with good elder vinegar; let 
them stand twenty-four hours, then pour off part 
of the vinegar; to every quart of the remainder 
add three pounds of sugar, and put them upon 
the stove and simmer slowly until a fork will go 
through them easily, and they look clear; then 
add one ounce of ground cloves and one of cinna- 
mon; cook them ten minutes longer, and set them 
away to cool; after they are quite cold, cover 
closely, and set them in a cool, dark closet. 

SWEET CANTALOUPE PICKLE. 

Pare them and cover with vinegar, after cutting 
in pieces; pour off the vinegar, and to every pint 
put three-fourths of a pound of brown sugar, a 
little cloves, allspice, and mace; let it boil a few 
minutes; throw in the cantaloupe; take it out as 
soon as it looks clear; put in a jar, and pour the 
boiling mixture over them. 



SWEET PICKLES.— CUCUMBER CATSUP. 



SWEET PICKLES. 
Take ripe cucumbers, pare them and cut out the 
seeds, cut in strips and soali in weak brine twenty- 
four hours; then put tliem in vinegar and water 
and soak twenty- four liours; tlien put tliem in 
sweetened vinegar the same as for any sweet 
pickles, and cook until tender; take to a quart of 
vinegar three pounds of coffee sugar, a tablespoon- 
ful of ground cinnamon tied in a cloth, also a few 
whole cloves, and boil all together. 

MUSKMELON PICKLE. 
Take the melons when not quite ripe; peel, re- 
move the seed, and cut in shape; throw them into 
vinegar and water— equal proportions— and cook 
until tender; then drain and lay into a jar; then 
take vinegar enough to cover, allowing three 
pounds of sugar to a quart; add stick cinnamon to 
taste, and boil; pour over the melon boiling hot; 
strain off tiie vinegar the next day and boil again. 

SWEET PICKLED WATERMELON RINDS. 

Prepare the rinds and put into weak vinegar 
and water for twelve hours; then boil them 
tender in the same water; drain well, and prepare 
to a pint of vinegar one pound of sugar, mace, 
allspice, cloves, stick cinnamon; put the rinds in a 
jar, and pour this over them. 

MOCK OLIVES. 

Take green plums before they begin to ripen, 
and pour over them, while boiling hot, a pickle 
made of vinegar, salt, and mustard seed; let them 
stand all night, and then drain off the vinegar, 
and boil again, and pour over the plums. ' 
TOMATO FIGS. 

Collect a lot of ripe lOmatoes, about one inch in 
diameter, skin and stew them in the usual manner; 
when done, lay them on dishes, flatten them 
slightly, and spread over them a light layer of pul- 
verized white or brown sugar; expose them to a 
Summer's sun, or place them in a drying-house; 
when as dry as fresh figs, pack in old fig or small 
boxes, with sugar between each layer; if properly 
managed, the difference can not be detected from 
the veritable article. 

SPICED GRAPES. 

Ten pounds of grapes, six pounds of sugar, two 
tablespoonfuls cinnamon, two of allspice, and 
small teaspoonful ground cloves; remove the 
pulps and boil, then rub through a sieve or colan- 
der to remove the seeds; boil the skins until tender, 
and then add to the pulp together with the sugar; 
spices and vinegar to taste; boil until of the desired 
consistency. 



PICKLED PEARS. 

Prepare the fruit as preferred, either pare and 
leave whole or quarter them ; make a syrup in the 
proportion of three pints of sugar to one quart of 
vinegar, and while boiling hot put in the fruit, and 
cook until tender, but not broken ; skim out the 
fruit carefully into a jar and pour the syrup over 
them; let them stand until the next day, and then 
lay them in a stone jar in layers, with whole 
cloves and stick cinnamon, and again pour over 
them the syrup boiling hot; continue drawing off 
and boiling the syrup for four or five days, and 
then cover and set in a cool place. Apples can be 
pickled in the same manner. 

GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. 

Take nine pounds of gooseberries nearly ripe, 
remove the stems, and put into a preserving ket- 
tle with four and a half pounds of sugar and three 
cups of hot vinegar, and spices to taste; boil until 
thick. 

GREEN TOMATO SAUCE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, washed, and sliced 
very thin; sprinkle with salt, and allow them to 
drain twenty-four hours; in the morning press 
out ah the water, and put into a preserving kettle 
in layers with a mixture as follows: Six or seven 
onions cut in slices, quarter of a pound of mustard 
— mixed— quarter of a pound of mustard seed, 
tablespoonful of cloves, nearly two tablespoonfuls 
black pepper, nearly two tablespoonfuls of all- 
spice, and a tablespoonful of ginger; cover with 
vinegar and boil very slowly until the tomatoes 
look clear. 

CURRANT SAUCE. 

Six pounds of currants picked from the stems, 
three pounds of sugar, cup and a half of vinegar, 
three quarters of an ounce of cinnamon, and 
spices to taste; boil slowly an hour. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 
Nine pounds of currants, four and a half pounds 
of raisins, four and a half pounds of sugar, three 
cups of best vinegar, three tablespoonfuls allspice, 
three of cinnamon, one and a half of cloves; boil 
until thick. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 
Two dozen large cucumbers, two dozen white 
onions, one tablespoonful black pepper, one tea- 
spoonful red pepper, three red peppers; cut all up 
fine, sprinkle with salt and let drain until morn- 
ing; then mix the spices in; boil the vinegar, and 
let it cool before putting on the pickle; put in 
glass jars, and close tight. 



44 



CUCUMBER CATSUP.— OUDE SAUCE. 



CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Three dozen large cucumbers, three white 
onions; grate all to a pulp, drain through a sieve 
several hours; add salt, pepper, and good vinegar; 
seal in bottles. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP. 

Boil and grate full-grown cucumbers, sprinkle 
with salt, and let stand over night; tiien pour out 
all the water, season with celery seed, and add 
vinegar until about the consistency of the cucum- 
ber when grated ; bottle for use. 

GOOSEBERRY CATSUP. 

Five pounds of berries, two and one-half.pounds 
of sugar; boil down until as thick as apple butter; 
add cinnamon and cloves to taste, a pinch of salt, 
one pint of vinegar; strain through a hair sieve, 
and bottle. 

GRAPE CATSUP. 

Five pounds of grapes boiled in a little water, 
and put through a colander; three pounds of 
sugar, one pint of vinegar, one tablespoonful of 
ground cloves, one of cinnamon, one of pepper, 
one-half tablespoonful of salt; boil until a little 
thick; bottle and seal. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One bushel of tomatoes, boiled with two or 
three onions until soft; press through a sieve; 
pour again into the kettle, and add one pint of 
salt, two ounces of cloves, cayenne pepper to taste, 
two ounces whole pepper, four ounces mace, four 
ounces celery seed, one-half pound allspice, cup 
sugar, and half a gallon vinegar; boil until reduced 
one-half. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

To one gallon of ripe tomatoes add two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, one of pepper, two of ground 
mustard, one dessertspoon of cloves, one pint of 
good cider vinegar, a half teacupful of sugar; boil 
slowly for three minutes. Do not add the spice 
until nearly done, as it is more liable to burn. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One gallon of tomatoes, one pint of vinegar, 
two tablespooufuls of salt, two of black pepper, 
two of mustard, one of cloves, one dozen onions, 
sliced fine; boil all together till quite thick; strain 
through a colander- bottle and cork tight, and 
keep in a cool place. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

To every gallon of tomatoes put four tablespoons 
of salt, four of black pepper, one of cayenne pep- 
per, three of mustard, half a tablespoonful of 
ground cloves, and the same of allspice; after 
having washed and cut up the tomatoes, boil them 
about twenty minutes, then strain them and add 
the spice and simmer the whole together slowly 
three hours; then bottle and seal. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Take five large onions, eight green peppers, 
chop fine— thirty ripe tomatoes, cut them, five ta- 
blespooufuls sugar, three of salt, eight cups vine- 
gar, and boil altogether two and a half hours, and 
bottle for use. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

One dozen ripe tomatoes, four green peppers, 
one large onion, one cup of vinegar, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of ground 
allspice, two teaspoonfuls of salt, one teaspoonful 
of pepper; boil half an hour, then put in bottles 
while hot, and cork tight. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Eighteen ripe tomatoes, pared, three green 
peppers, one onion, one cup of sugar, two and 
one-half cups of vinegar, two teaspoonfuls of salt, 
one teaspoonful of cinnamon, one teaspoonful of 
cloves; cook the tomatoes tender; chop the onion 
and peppers very fine; mix all, and cook a few 
minutes. A few leaves of mint added to pickles is 
an improvement. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Twenty-five pounds ripe tomatoes, peeled, ten 
pounds gieen peppers, four pounds onions, one 
pound salt, three-quarters pound mustard, half 
pound ground cloves, quarter pound nutmeg, one 
and a quarter gallons vinegar; boil all together, 
and skim well before adding the spices, then boil 
for about one and a half hours; bottle and cork 
tight; will keep for years. 

OUDE SAUCE. 

One peck of green tomatoes, eight green pep- 
pers, and four onions chopped fine together; to 
this add a cup of salt, and let it stand over night; 
after which drain off the water, then add a cup of 
grated horse-radish, one cup of brown sugar, 
one tablespoonful of ground cloves, also the same 
of cinnamon: fill till it stands even full with cold 
vinegar, and let it cook gently all day. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



45 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. 

Every family should be furuished with scales 
and weights; and it is also advisable to have 
wooden measures. 

Two gills make half a pint. 

Two pints make one quart. 

Four quarts make one gallon. 

Half gallon makes a quarter of a peck. 

One gallon makes half a peck. 

Two gallons make one peck. 

Four gallons make half a bushel. 

Eight gallons make one bushel. 

About sixty drops of any thin liquid will fill a 
common-sized teaspoon. 

Four tablespoonfuls, or half a gill, will fill a 
common-sized wine-glass. 

Four wine-glasses will fill half a pint measure, 
a common tumbler, or a large coffee-cup. 

Ten eggs usually weigh one pound before they 
are broken. Eight large ones will weigh one 
pound. 

A tablespoonful of salt will weigh about one 
ounce. 

One pint of water or milk will weisrh one pound. 

One pint of molasses will weigh one and one- 
quarter pounds. 

Three teaspoonfuls of baking powder should 
weigh one ounce. 

One quart of flour weighs one pound. 

One quart of Indian-meal weighs one and a 
quarter pounds. 

REMARKS ON CARVING. 

Carving is now so generally practiced by gen- 
tlemen that ladies maj', in a great measure, be 
considered exempt. It is, however, a very desira- 
ble accomplishment. Every lady should be com- 
petent to preside at her own table, and as expert- 
ness is best gained by experience, it would be very 
advantageous to young ladies, that they, before 
leaving the parental roof, should be permitted to 
occasionally do the carving and serving at table. 
By acquiring properly, early habits of this kind 
under a mother's direction, they will be prepared 
to operate with confidence at their own table. 

To carve with ease and elegance it is essential 



to be furnished with a good and suitable carving- 
knife. These vary in size and form according to 
the purposes for which they are intended: for 
carving a large fleshy joint, as a round of beef, 
etc., a long blade will be necessary; for lamb, etc., 
a smaller size will answer; and for poultry 
and game a still shorter blade, sharp pohited 
and somewhat curved. A new carving-knife 
for poultry is now ''-n the market, which can 
be used as shears, and is a great help in nipping 
off small bones, tendons, etc. The knife should 
be as light as is compatible with the size and 
strength required; the edge very keen, and a good 
steel or knife-sharpener always at hand. A guard- 
fork is generally used for carving which requires 
strength, as it is a necessary security, but for light 
cutting it is a needless and rather cumbersome 
appendage. 

It is the business of the cook to see that the 
butcher properly divides the joints of neck and 
loins in all kinds of meats, as this materially 
facilitates the operation of carving. The seat 
should be sufficiently high to command the table, 
and render rising unnecessary. For fish a silver 
fish-knife or trowel is to be preferred, as pieserv- 
ing the flakes more entire, which contributes 
greatly to the beauty of its appearance. 

Although carving with ease and elegance is a 
necessary accomplishment, most people are la- 
mentably deficient not only in the art of dissecting 
winged game and poultry but also in the import- 
ant point of knowing the parts most esteemed. 
Each person, as far as possible, should be served 
with a portion of the best parts. 

TO COOK POULTRY AND MEAT. 

A writer says: All kinds of poultry and meat 
can be cooked quicker by adding to tiie water in 
which they are boiled, a little vinegar or a piece of 
lemon. By the use of an acid there will be a con- 
siderable saving of fuel, as well as shortening of 
time. Its action is beneficial on old, tough meats, 
rendering them quite tender and easy of digestion. 
Tainted meats and fowls will lose their bad taste 
and odor if cooked in this way, and if not used too 
freely, no taste of it will be acquired. 



46 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



TO KEEP BEEF. 

Drywell with clean cloth; rub ground pepper 
plentifully over every part of it first, then flour it 
well and hang it in a cool place, where the air will 
come to it. 

TO PICKLE MEAT IN ONE DAY. 

Take a tub of rain or river water aud put two 
pieces of thin wood across it and set the beef on 
them, distant about an inch from the water; heap 
as much salt as will stand on your beef, and let it 
remain twenty-four hours; then take off and boil, 
the water having drawn the salt completely 
through the meat. 

TESTING MILK. 

A well polished knitting needle is dipped into a 
deep vessel of milk, and immediately withdrawn 
in an upright position; when, if the sample be 
pure, some of the fluid will be found to adhere to 
it, while such is not the case if water has been 
added to the milk. 

CHEAP REFRIGERATORS. 

A flower-pot wrapped in a wet cloth and placed 
over a butter plate will keep the contents of the 
plate as hard and firm as if they were set on ice; 
and milk will not sour if the can containingiit be 
wrapped in a wet cloth. 

TO MEND BROKEN CROCKERY. 

We have used hme and the white of an egg for 
mending earthenware, and find it most satisfac- 
tory. It is a strong cement, easily applied, and 
generally at hand. Mix only enough to mend one 
article at a time, as it soon hardens, when it can 
not be used. Powder a small quantity of the lime, 
and mix to a paste with the white. Apply quickly 
to the edges, and place firmly togethef. It will 
soon become set and strong, seldom breaking in 
the same place again. 

HOW TO CLEAN A TEA OR COFFEE POT. 

If the inside of your tea or coffee pot is black 
from long use, fill it with water, throw in a piece 
of hard soap, set on the stove, and let it boil from 
half an hour to an hour. It will clean as bright 
as a new dollar, and cost no work. 

TINNED WARE. 

Tinned ware which speedily loses its brightness 
should be distrusted. It usually contains lead, 
which is dissolved by very feeble acids, and is very 
poisonous. Iodide of potassium is the antidote. 



TO RENEW BLACK CASHMERE. 
Take half a pint of ammonia and enough tepid 
water to dip the breadths and pieces in thoroughly 
up and down, after which hang on the line to 
drip and dry partially without wringing; then iron 
dry on wrong side, when it will look like new. 

TO WASH BLACK CASHMERE. 
Take hard soapsuds, wash your goods thor- 
oughly, and after you have rinsed them in warm 
water rinse them in warm coffee, with a teaspoon- 
ful of gum arable water to every pound of 
goods; take a piece of dark flannel or place a 
layer of flannel and then one of the goods, and so 
on until you have finished, then roll up tight and 
leave until morning, then iron on the wrong side. 
You can also wash soiled velvet in this way. 

TO POLISH SHIRT FRONTS AND WRIST- 
BANDS. 

Starch the fronts and wristbands as stiff as you 
can. Starch twice— that is, starch, dry, then starch 
again. Iron your shirt with a box iron, in the 
usual way, making the linen nice and firm, but 
without any attempt at a good finish; don't lift 
the plaits; your shirt is now ready for polishing, 
but you ought to have a board same size as a com- 
mon shirt board, made of hard wood, and covered 
with only one ply of plain cotton cloth. Put this 
board into the breast of your shirt, damp the 
front very lightly with a wet sponge, then take 
the polishing iron, which is flat and bevelled at 
one end — polish gently with the bevelled end, 
taking care not to drive the linen up into wave- 
like blisters. Of course this requires a little prac- 
tice, but if you are careful and persevere, in a short 
time you will be able to give the enamel like finish 
which is 80 much wanted. 

TO CLEAN STRAW-MATTING. 

Wash with a cloth dipped in clean salt and 
water. Take care to wipe dry, as this prevents its 
turning yellow. 

Tar may be removed from either hands or cloth- 
ing, by rubbing well with lard and then washing 
well with soap and water. 

A SURE WAY TO REMOVE TEA STAINS. 

Mix thoroughly soft soap and salt— say a table- 
spoonful to a teapcup of soap; rub on the spots, 
and spread the cloth on the grass where the sun 
will shine on it. Let it lay two or three days; 
then wash. If the stain is not all out, it will dis- 
appear in the second washing. If the spots are 
wet occasionally while lying on the grass, it will 
hasten the bleaching. 



MISCELLA NEOUS. 



47 



HOME-MADE CAMPHOR-ICE. 

Melt half a teacupf ul of mutton tallow with a 
piece of camphor gum, the size of a large hickory- 
nut; pour into a little cup or mold. 

HOME-MADE HARD SOAP. 

Were the good qualities of this inexpensive soap 
more generally known, no family would go with- 
out it. It is valuable for washing clothes, makuig 
them very clean and white, without in the least in- 
juring them, and is excellent for flannels and cali- 
coes. It is good also for the hands, making them 
soft and smooth. Take six pounds each of sal-soda 
and lard, three pounds of stone lime, four gallons 
of soft water; dissolve the lime and soda in the 
water, stirring, settling, and pouring off, then re- 
turn to the kettle, using brass or copper; add the 
lard and boil until it becomes soap, then pour into 
a tub; when cold, cut in bars and dry. 

A BEAUTIFUL WHITEWASH. 

To five gallons of whitewash made of well 
burned white lime, add a quarter of a pound of 
whiting, half a pound of loaf sugar, one quart 
and a half of rice flour, made into a thin and well 
cooked paste, and half a pound of white glue dis- 
solved in water; apply warm; previously scrape 
off all old scaly whitewash; this is like kalsomine, 
and gives a brilliant and lasting effect. 

CHAMOIS SKINS. 

To cleanse a chamois skin wash it in cold water 
with plenty of soap, and rinse well in clear cold 
water; thus you may wash as often as you please, 
and still keep it soft. 

MOTHS. 

Professor Riley says, in a scientific journal, that 
the early days of May should herald vigorous and 
and exterminating warfare upon those subtle 
pests, clothes moths; closets, wardrobes, etc., 
should be emptied and the clothing laid open and 
thoroughly exposed to light and air, and well 
brushed before being replaced. Spirits of turpen- 
tine should be brushed in cracks, wainscots, and 
shelves, and camphor or tobacco placed among 
the garments, furs, plumes, etc., when laid aside 
for the Summer. To secure the cloth linings of 
carriages from moths, sponge them on both sides 
with a solution of corrosive sublimate or mercury 
In alcohol, made just strong enough not to leave 
a white mark on a black feather. 



SALT AND MOTHS. 

It is said, and by good authority, that after 
wiping up the floor, it salt is sprinkled over it 
while damp, moths will not try that harbor again. 
When making a carpet it is recommended that 
enough be allowed to fold under an inch or two, 
so that when it is put down, salt can be spread 
between the folds, and also sprinkle salt all around 
the sides and corners of the room before nailing 
the carpet. We have never tried this, but have 
several good authorities who endorse it, and prom- 
ise that moths will not injure carpets if this ad- 
vice is followed. 

POLISHING PASTE FOR TINS, BRASSES, AND 
COPPER. 

This'is composed of rotten stone, soft soap, and 
oil of turpentine; the stone must be powdered 
and sif led through a muslin or hair sieve; mix 
with it as much soft soap as will bring it to the 
stiffness of putty; to half a pound of this, add two 
ounces of oil of turpentine; it may be made into 
balls; it will soon become hard, and will keep any 
length of time. Method of using: The articles to 
be polished should be perfectly free from grease 
I and dirt; moisten a little of the paste with water, 
smear it over the metal, rub briskly with a dry 
I rag or leather, and it will soon bear a beautiful 
polish. 

A good stove polish may be made of black lead 
mixed with the white of an egg. Put on with a 
brush, and polish with a dry hard brush. 

To make an excellent furniture polish: take 
turpentine, linseed oiL and vinegar, in equal pro- 
portions; apply and rtb with flannel. 

A little soap put on the hinges or latch of a door 
will stop its creaking. 

Salt will ciu-dle milk, hence in preparing 
gravies, porridge, etc., the salt should not be added 
till the dish is prepared. 

If your flatirons are rough, or soiled, lay some 
salt on a flat surface and rub the face of the iron 
well over it. 

Rub your griddle with fine salt before you grease 
it, and your cakes will not stick. 

When clothes have acquired an unpleasant odor 
by being from the air, charcoal laid in the folds 
will soon remove it. 

Powdered charcoal placed around roses and 
other flowers adds much to their richness. 

Camphor gum placed on shelves or in drawers 
will effectually drive away mice. 



48 



THE LAKESIDE LIBRARY, 



No Price. 

55-56. His Natural Life, by Marcus Clarke 20c. 

140. HistoryofaCrime, by Victor Hugo. Part 1.10c. 
170. Hl8toryofaCrime,by Victor Hugo. Part II. 5c. 
36. Hugli Melton, by Catlieriue King. 6 Illus....lOc. 
107-108. HuiichbacU of Notre Uaine.by Victor 

Hugo. 30 Illustrations ^Oc. 

130. In His Name, by E. E.Hale. Elegantly Illus. 10c 

145. In the Flesh, by Deane Roscoe 10c. 

215. InSilk Attire, by William Biaclc 10c. 

230-231. Israel Mort, Overman, by Saunders.. 20c, 

106. Jack, by Alpbonse Daudet 10c. 

205. Jet,by Annie Edwards 10c. 

99-100. Jilt (The), by Cliarles Reade 20c. 

210. Joan, by Rhoda Brougliton 15c. 

121-122. Joliu Halifax, by Miss Mulock 15c. 

74-75. Joshua Hasgard's Daugliter, by Miss 

P.r.addon. 1» Eugiavmgs 20c. 

95-95. Journey to Center of the Karth, by 

Jules Verne. With G9 Illustrations 20c. 

17. Katertelto. by Maj. Whyte-Melville 10c. 

129. T^.ast Days of Pompeii, by Bulwer Lytton.lOc. 
1.32. Lastof theMoliicanM, by J. Fen. Cooper. ..10c. 

6.5. Laurel Bu.sli. by Miss Mulock 10c. 

9-10 Law and the Lady, by WilkieColUns 10c. 

179. Leaf in the Storm, by "Ouida" 10c. 

59. Leila, by Sir E. Bulwer Lytton 10c. 

5. Legend of Montrose, by Sir Walter Scott. .lOc 
149-150. Les Miserables, by Victor Hugo. 24 

Illustrations *0c. 

185- Less Black Tlian We're Painted, by 

James Payn 15C. 

71. LogoftheFortuna, by Capt. A. F. Lindley. 

With 8 Illustrations 10c. 

76. Long Time Ago, by MetaOrrert. 7 Illus. ..10c. 

70. Lost.SirMassingberd, by James Payn 10c. 

126. Love Me Little, Love 3Ie L(»ng, by Reade. 10c. 

25. Love's Victory, by 15. L. Farjeon 10c. 

84-85. Madcap Violet, by William Black 20c. 

93. Maid of Florence. 11 Illus 10c. 

168-169. Man and Wife, by Wilkie Collins 20c. 

69. Man Witliouta Country, by E. E. Hale. 

tt^-With 48 Illustrations 10c. 

207-208. Married Beneath Him, by Jas. Payn. 20c. 

19. Maurice Dering, by (^o. Lawrence 10c. 

113. Michael .Strogott',by Jules Verne. 18 Illus. lOc 

ISljMIDDLEMARCH.^yOeorgeEllot.. ^^«° 
105 ( Complete in 3 volumes. 

174-175. Mill on the Floss, bv George Eliot 20c. 

52. Miss Hitchcock's Wedding Dress 10c. 

49. Miss Molly, by Beatrice M. Kurt 1 'C. 

20. Mistress Judith, by C.C. Fraser-Tytler 10c- 

146-147. Moonstone (The), by Wilkie Collins. 

B:^With 34 Finelllustrations 20c. 



165-166. Never too Late to Mend, by Reade.... 20c. 

54. New Godiva, by Stanley Hope lOc. 

38. New Magdalen, by Wilkie Collins 10c. 

13. Old Margaret, by Henry Kingsley 10c. 

21. Open ! Sesame ! by Florence Marryat 10c. 

37. Owen Gwynne, by Lady Noel 10c. 

192-193. Pascarel, by "Ouida" 20c. 

133. PatliHnder, by J. Feiiimore Cooper 15c. 

31-32. Paul Massie, by J ustin McCarthy 20c. 

194. Peg Woffington, by Charles Reade 10c. 

119. Percy and tlie Prophet, by Wilkie Collins.lOc. 
136. Pilot, by J. Fenimore Cooper loc. 

134. Pioneers, by J. Fenimore Cooper 15c. 



No. Pric9. 

161. Plague-Stone of Aberford, by Saunders. .10c. 

123. Poor Miss Finch, by Wilkie Collins 15c. 

12. Portent. Tlie, by Geo. MacDonald 10c. 

135. Prairie, by J. Fenimore Cooper 15c. 

127. Princess of Thule, by William Black 15c. 

94. Princess Oglieroflf, by Greville 10c. 

210-211. Primrose Path, by Mrs. Oliphant 20c. 

156-157. Put Yourself in His Place, by Charles 
Reade. 10 Illustrations 20c. 

34. Queen of Connaught 10c. 

23. Queen Mary, by Alfred Tennyson 10c. 

53. Kab and His Friends, by Dr. J. Brown 10c. 

16. Ralph Wilton's Weird, by Mrs. Alexander. 10c. 
217-218. Reaping tlie Wliirlwind, by Mary 

Cecil Hay 20c. 

155. Red Rover, by J. Fenimore Cooper 15c. 

197. Rent in a Cloud, by Charles Lever 10c. 

88. Ride to Khiva, by Capt. F. Burnaby 10c. 

124. Robin Gray, by Charles Gibbon l&c. 

186-187. Romola, by George Eliot 20c. 

68. Rose Turquand, by Ellice Hopkins 10c. 

91. Rosine, by J. G. Whyte-Melville. 7 Illus 10c. 

67. Round the Moon, by Jules Verne. 28 Illus.. 10c. 
44. Secretof tlie Island, by Jules Verne. Sllius.lOc. 
30. Sermons Out of Church, by Miss Mulock. .10c. 
43. Shadow of a Sin 10c- 

213. Shadowof aSword, by Robt. Buchanan. ...15c. 

223. Shadow on tlie Snow, by B. L. Farjeon 10c. 

167. Shadow on the Threshold, by M. C. Hay. 10c. 
176. Sheplierds All and Maidens Fair, by 

Walter Besant and James Rice lOc. 

203-204. Signa, by " Ouida " 20c. 

214. Sign of the Silver Flagon, by Farjeon 10c. 

191. Silas Marner, by George Eliot 10c. 

137. Solomon Isaacs, by B. L. Farjeon 10c. 

58. Star andaHeart, by Florence Marryat 10c. 

26-27. St. George and St. Alichael, by George 

MacDonald 20c. 

98. Survivors of tlie Cliancellor, by Jules 
Verne. With 36 Illustrations 10c. 

51. Tale of Two Cities, by Charles Dickens 10c. 

117. Talieman, The, by Sir Walter Scott :!0c. 

77 Tall Man, Tlie, by Gustav Nieritz. 15 Illus. .10c. 
116. Terrible Temptation, by Charles Reade... 10c. 
101. To the North Pole, by Verne. 71 Illus.. ..10c. 
7. Tom Brown at Rugby, by Thomas Hughes... lOc. 

46-47. Tom Brown atOxford, by T. Hughes 20c. 

29. Tour of the World, by Jules Verne. 8 Illus. 10c. 

33. Travels and Adventures 10c. 

6. Treasure Hunters, by George M. Fenn 10c. 

14-15. 20.000 Leagues Under the Seas! by 

Jules Verne. 8 Illustrations 10c. 

154. Two Admirals, by J. Fenimore Cooper 15c. 

60. Two Destinies, by Wilkie Collins 10c. 

162. TwoOrphans, by D'Ennery 10c. 

141. Vicarof Wakefield, by Goldsmith. Sllius.lOc. 

2. Wandering Heir, by Charles Reade 10c. 

22. AVardor Wife? 10c 

151. Water Witcli. by J. Fenimore Cooper 15c 

83. "Weavers and Weft, by Miss Braddon 5 Illus. 10c 
87. W^hen Ship Comes Home, by Besant & Rice.l0c_ 

128. WliiteLies, by Charles Reade 15c. 

219. Who Breaks— Pays, by Mrs. C. Jenkin 10c. 

206. Winter City, by "Ouida" 10c. 

114-115. Woman Hater, by Charles Reade 15c. 

152-15:^. Woman in White, by Wilkie Collins. 
15 Illustrations 20c, 



/ 



No. Price. 
164. Wreck of The Grosvenor 10c. 

S29. Young Musgrave, by Mrs. Oliphant 15c. 

168. Toung Smugglers of Lake Ontario, by 
Andrew A. Macthewson 10c. 

118. Zanonl, by Sir E. BulwerLytton 15c. 



SPECIALLY VALUABLE BOOKS. 

S21-322. Game Birds, their babits, haunts, and 
how to shoot them, by Thomas Alexander, author 
"Fish and Fisliing," &c. New shooting cos- 
tume: a new method of learning how to shoot 
"ontlie wing,"withiinproved Signtfor the pur* 

Sose; upland shooting; wildfowl shooting; new 
ecoys, to swim, fly and dive; boats, stands, 
new Portable Blind; trainihg the dog; the Rifle 
and its use. with new sights, &c. Over 50 illus- 
trations. The best book on the subject. 20c. 

Eir'The Lakeside Cook Book, Ho, 1. A com- 
plete manual of cook ing recipes, in heavy covers.lOc. 

t3fTh.e Lakeside Cook Book, No. ». A splen- 
did collection of additional recipes not included 

In above. (Ready October 20J 10c. 

These most admirable compilations of just such 
recipes as are veritable "nousehold treasures," 
have been received with exceptional favor. The 
First volume has already reached a very large 
circulation, and Is daily growing in popularity. 
The Second volume is designed to furnish a suf- 
ficient number of equally choice recipes, to sup- 
ply in connection with the first volume, the most 
varied needs of every boushold. For only Twenty 
Cents you receive as many and choicer recipes 
than can be found In two ordinary $1.50 cook 
books. 

laVThe Lakeside Knowledge Box, by Theo- 
dore Namron, will be published in ten days lOc. 

It will contain medical hints and prescriptions; 
directions for proceeding in case of accidents, 
and names of antidotes for poisons. In short It 
will be a band book of useful, and general knowl- 



THE FUR COUNTRY 

BY JULES VERNE. 

A very interesting story of a Scientific Expedition 
•ent into the Hudson Bay Territory to make obser- 
vations of the total eclipse of the sun, then near at 
hand. But a strange combination of circumstances 
transformed what was expected to be simply an un- 
Interestingscientificduty, Into an adventurous jour- 
ney, full of suffering, danger, excitement and inci- 
dent; and instead of a brief trip, its duration was 
thus extended over many long months. 

No one but the imaginative VERNE could have 
eoneeived so strange, and vet plausible a cause, for 
this unexpected and momentous change In the pro- 
gram me of the Expedition that caused all the count- 
less attendant adventures to become natural sequen- 
ces, and none but he could handle them in so mas- 
terly a manner, that the story becomes almost pain- 
fully interesting In its vivid reality. 

Complete in two volumes, Nos. 109 and 110, with 
S6 fine illustrations eacli. Price 10 cents each. 

FROM THE EARTH TO THt MOON. 

O BY JULKS VERNE. 

A very charming and entertaining account of 
wonderful doings of a certain "Gun Club," com- 
posed of veteran artillerists, who, In a freak of 
enthusiasm, undertake the mighty task of hurling 
a projectile from THE EARTH TO THE MOON! 
To accomplish this a monster cannon Is built, at a 
eost of 52,500,000. This is loaded with a mighty 
eharge of gun cotton, and next, a huge hollow shell. 
In which tnree intrepid vovagers entrust theni- 
leives, and the charge is fired' ! Illustrated with 
SIS EngraTings. Price lO centa. 



edge required !n every household, on ereiy 
farm, and by all who want information. 8om* 
single recipe stated tersely In four lines will b« 
worth hundreds of dollars. Every person iliould 
have a copy. 



Mother Goose, Old and New. Nursery Rhymes 
for Little Folks. Profusely Illustrated 1 



lot. 



69. A Man Without a Country, by E. E. Hale. 

A very strongly drawn realistic story of one 
PMlip Nolan, who, iu a moment of passion, 
declared with an oath "I wish I may never hear 
of the United States again I " All this was in 
days long gone by, before the war of 1812 In 
fact, and the Court Martial in those days looked 
with absolute horror on such a person and such 
an utterance; and old Col. Morgan, of Revolu- 
tionary fame, pronounced the sentence of the 
Court: That the prisoner be condemned to pass 
his life on an American war vessel, and never 
again to hear the name of his country mentioned, 
nor see it in print! This most strange sentence 
was carried out for years, and Philip Nolan be- 
came a veritable "Iron Mask." The story is one 
of great dramatic interest and Is Profusely and 
Elegantly Illustrated, with 60 fine engravengs..lOfc 

130. In His Name, and other stories, by E. E. 
Hale. Elegantly Illustrated. ;ind printed on fine 
heavy tinted paper, making far the choicest vol- 
ume ever ofTerea for the low price— only 10a 

The Lakeside Library Is sold by All Newsdealers, or 
will be Bent free of postage on receipt of retail price, by 

Donnelley, Cassette & Loyd, 

ROOM 1. LAKESIDE BUILDING, 

COR. CLARK AND ADAMS STREETS, 

CHICAGO. 



nil MIDDLEMARCH, 

105 ) BY GEORGE ELIOT. 

" Middlemarch " will probably be adjudged George 
Eliot's masteroiece, and by consequence it will take 
rank among the highest works of genius of the age. 
The secret of this wonderful woman's power is her 
profound insiglit into the working of the human 
heart, in conjunction with the rare mystery of lan- 
gnage by which she has always exactly the proper 
words to unfold them. Characterization is. there- 
fore, her strongest point, and with this superiority 
to other great masters, that nothing of caricature, of 
extravagance, or of exaggeration Is needed by her 
to impress her men and women on the reader's 
mind. The charm of George Eliot is undoubtedly 
her wonderful style, of which It may be said thM 
grace and fitness characterize every sentence.— JT. 
Y. Evening Post. 

Three volumes. 10 cents each, 30 cents the set. 

DllEL OERUNDA 

By GEORGE ELIOT, 

Author of "Adam Bede," " Middlemarch," etc 
"The literary event of the year," says The Boston 
Globe. This very remarkable and extraordinarily 
powerful work, by the most brilliant novelist of 
the century, is now ready. "It is an event in the 
history of literature."— T>i« Globe. London. "The 
story IS profoundly absorbing."— Chrisfion Intelli- 
gencer. "Wonderful. • • Her books are events." 
—Springfield Republican. 

Complete in two numbers, 61 - 62, 63 - 64. 
Price, 10 cents each. 



THE BEST IN THF ""KET 

LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 



FOR THE PRICE CH/ 







PUT UP IN HALF-POUND PACKETS: 

Choice. Choicest. 



Young Hyson, per packet .30 

Imperial, " 30 

Gunpowder, " 30 



.40 
.40 
.40 



per packet. 



Japan, 

Oolong, 

English Breakfast, " 



Choice. Choicest. 

.- .30 40 

- .30 .40 

- ,30 .40 



For sale by Newsdealers, Booksellers, Stationers, Druggists. 

^ — .n\^rri- ' 

If not procurable from dealers, the Company will seiricH a sample packet by mail, 
prepaid, on receipt of the retail price. 

Imported and for sale, at wholesale only, by The Mantchoo Packet Tea Company, 

"^'•*^'-"~^"- 44 RANDOLPH STREET, CHICAGO. 



Aak the Vewsdealer from whom you bought the Lakeside Cook Book for a package of Mantchoo Tea. 



LIBRftRY OF CONGRESS 



014 486 951 5# 



