Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



^jTi 



lET. 



DINBURGU 




r. 



91 



CCADILLY, W. 




INDIGESTION AND DIET, 



BY 



JOHN DEWAR, L.R.C.P.E., 

Licentiate of the Royal Gollbge of SoROEONfi, Edinburgh : 

Licentiate of Midwifery, Edinburgh; 

Fellow of the Obstetrical Society, London ; 

Physician for the Diseases of WouEsjanr:f^a^is^Jx, 

Ohelsba, Brohfton, and Bblgra^I^kpie^sabI?, 

Ac, &c. /^ 



m 



^Lt\^ 



**EAT TO LIVE, NOT LITE TO EAT." 



LONDON : 
HARDWICKE & BOGUE, 192, PICCADILLY, W. 

1878. 



/6^; . 



i,s^ 



Loin>ov 

PRtXTED BT BANKBH AlTD CO., DBVRT HOUSB, 
8T. II ABy*XA>8TKAND W.O. 



PREFACE. 



The following pages are written for the use of my 
patients who may be suffering from indigestion in any 
of its various forms, in order to avoid the necessity of 
* lengthened verbal or written directions at the time of 
consultation. At the same time it is hoped, that the 
general reader will find a more extensive knowledge of the 
laws that regulate digestion, the symptoms indicative ot 
indigestion, and the proper diet to be used, helpful in 
preventing, as well as curing indigestion, when it occurs. 

132, Sloanb Strbbt, S.W. 



CONTENTS 













paob 


Iktboduction 


• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


• • • 


1 


PHYSIOLOaY OF DiOBBTION ... 


• •• 


• • • 


• • • 


• • t 


2 


Cavseb of Indigestion :— 












1. Eating ... ... 


• • • 


• « • 


• • • 


• • • 


5 


2. Drinking ... 


• • • 


« • • 


• • • 


• •• 


6 


3. Exercise 


• •• 


• •• 


• •• 


« • • 


6 


4. Influence of the Mind 


• •« 


• • • 


• • • 


• • • 


. 6 


5. Smoking and Snuffing 


• • • 


• • • 


• •• 


• • • 


7 


6. Teeth 


.•• 


I • • 


• • ■ 


• • • 


8 


7. Occupation ... 


• • • 


• • • 


« • • 


• •• 


8 


8. Bad Hygiene 


• •* 


« • 


• • • 


• •• 


9 


9. Bathing ... 


• •• 


• • • 


• • • 


• •• 


9 


Tabietieb of Indigestion : 












1. Congestive Dyspepsia 


• • • 


« • • 


• • • 


• •• 


9 


2. Irritative Dyspepsia 


• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


• •• 


14 


3. Atonic Dyspepsia 


• • • 


• • • 


• ••• 


• •• 


17 


4. Nervous or Neuralgic Dyspepsia 


• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


22 


5. Strumous Dyspepsia 


• •• 


• •• 


•»• 


• *• 


26 


6. Intestinal Dyspepsia 


• •• 


• • • 


• • • 


• • 


26 


Symptoms of Indigestion : — 












1. Pain before Eating ... 


• • • 


t • ■ 


• •• 


• •• 


28 


2. Pain after Eating 


• • • 


• • • 


• •• 


• •• 


29 


3. Tenderness... 


• •• 


• • • 


• • • 


• • • 


30 


4. Vomiting ..« 


• •• 


• •• 


• • « 


• • • 


30 


5. Flatulence ... 


• « • 


• • • 


• •• 


• •• 


81 


6. Acidity 


• • • 


• •• 


' ' ••• 


• •• 


38 


7. Pyrosis 


• • • 


• •• 


• » • 


• •• 


35 


• 8. Heartburn 


• • « 


• • • 


• •• 


■ • • 


85 


9. Hiccough ... 


• • • 


• « • 


• •• 


• • • 


36 


10. Botching ... 




• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


37 


11. Eructation .. 


• • • 


• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


37 


12. Thirst 


• • • 


• ■ • 


• •• 


• ■ • 


38 


18. Borborygmi 


• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


• • • 


38 


14. Pica ... 


• •• 


• • • 


• •• 


• • • 


39 


Anomalous Sensations : — 












(0.) Feeling of Sinking 


• • • 


• • • 


t • • 


• • • 


40 


{b.S Emptiness 

(c.) Fulness and Weight 


• •• 


• « • 


• • • 


• • • 


40 


• • • 


• • • 


• •• 


• • • 


41 


(d.) Gripes and Spasms 


• •• 


• • • 


t • • 


• • • 


42 



ON INDIGESTION AND DIET. 



INTKODUCTION. 

Indioestion, or di/spepsia^ is a much more common complaint 
than is generally believed. I suppose everyone suffers from it at 
one time or other in some form, though many who suffer from it 
are ignorant of the fact, and attribute their ailment to something 
else. A knowledge, therefore, of all the symptoms by which 
indigestion shows itself, will prevent much anxiety as to 
whether the heart or liver is affected, and, by drawing attention 
to the real source of the disease, lead to more abstemious living. 
A healthy man does not know that he has a stomach, and but 
for the feeling of hunger would not know that there was such 
an organ in the body. Practically, if the digestive apparatus is in 
good working order, the man maybe said to be in perfect health. 
Food taken at regular times, its quantity being sufficient, and 
its quality good, the stomach and its absorbing apparatus being 
in perfect working order, thus enabling the food to be assimilated, 
one would, mentally and bodily, enjoy a perfect Elysium of 
health. But what with the adulterations of food, the unwhole- 
some food taken, and, altogether, our artificial mode of living, the 
picture that can be usually drawn of the average individual is 
one very different from an Elysium of health. But things 
being as they are, our duty is to make the best of them, and, by 
more enlightened views being held, to some extent improve 
matters. 

** Eat to live, not live to eat,'* is an axiom that it would 
be well for all who suffer from any form of dyspepsia to 
remember. The foundation of most dyspeptic symptoms is 
laid by excessive eating and drinking. We all eat more than 
is absolute 'y necessary for the wants of the system — supplying 
the loss resulting from the mere wear and tear ; whatever is 



Z ON INDIGESTION AND DIET. 

eaten in excess, if not laid up in store in the form of fat, is 
wasted ; worse than that, if the food be of an indigestible nature, 
or very excessive in quantity, it is not only not assimilated, but, 
by its irritant effects, prevents the ordinary digestible quantity 
from being absorbed, and thus one may get thin by exces- 
sive eating. This is seen every day in children who, in spite of 
the large quantity of food they have given them, waste to a 
skeleton, and actually die of starvation. One mother, I re- 
member, was very indignant with me for saying that her child 
(about a year old) was dying of starvation, though a day or two 
before its death I had seen it eating beef and potatoes with 
French beans. It had for some time previously been suffering 
from sickness and diarrhoea (caused by injudicious feeding) ; and 
though I repeatedly warned her of the danger, the mother per- 
sisted in giving similar food to that mentioned. Erom lack of 
food, then, this child actually died. In children, from their more 
delicate organism, the deleterious effects of over-feeding are 
more patent to observation, but not much more injurious, than 
to adults. In the latter, if not so fatal, over-feeding is more 
painful and chronic in its effects, Nature not relieving itself by 
vomiting so easily as in children ; hence the train of irritant 
symptoms that exhibit themselves. 

Coleridge says, ** Excessive eating or drinking both makes 
the body sickly and lazy, fit for nothing but sleep, and besots the 
mind, as it clogs up with crudities the way through which the 
spirits should pass, bemiring them, and making them move 
heavily, as a coach in a deep way.** 



THE PHYSIOLOGY OF DIGESTION. 

When food is put into the mouth saliva is poured forth, and 
during mastication is brought into contact with the different 
particles of the food, and the more finely masticated the food be- 
comes the more it gets exposed to the action of the saliva. The 
saliva being an organic compouad in an alkaline medium acts 
only on the starchy portion of the food, conveiting it into 
dextrine, the first step towards its ultimate conversion into 
sugar, for starch (of which bread, rice, potatoes, and other fari- 
naceous articles of diet are largely composed) as such is of no 
use in the animal economy, but before it is assimilated or used 
up in the system it must be converted into sugar. The saliva 
has scarcely any action on the albumen or on the fatty portion 
of the food. Besides the chemical action, saliva has an impor- 
tant physical one, that of moistening and lubricating dry articles 
of diet, and so enabling them to be shallowed. From a know- 
ledge of the chemical and physical action of saliva, the necessity 
pf well masticating the food, and not " bolting " it, will be appa- 
rent to all. 

After the food has reached the stomach the chemical action 
on the starch commenced in the mouth is stopped. The gastr%e 
( stomach) yw^'ctf, although closely allied to the saliva in its nature, 
(the active principle of both being almost identical), in conse- 
quence of its acting in an acid medium, has little or no effect 
on starch. On the albuminous or fleshy part of the food, as the 
lean of meat, the gluten of flour, and the white of egg (which 
is pure albumen), it has a solvent action — the resulting solution 
being called pttptone (albuminose). Fats and oil are not much 
acted on by the gastric juice, neveitheless it acidifies the 
neutral fats, and so facilitates their emulsion afterwards by 
the bile, which cannot emulsify neutral fats. 

If we could look into the stomach three or four hours after 
a meal, and when the gastric juice has done its work on the 
food, we would see that the contents were fluid and solid, the 
fluid portion being called peptone and the solid parapeptone, 

B 2 ' 



4 ON INDIGESTION AND DIBT^ 

The fluid portion is absorbed by the veins and lacteals, the 
solid is then passed on into the first portion of the bowel, called 
the dttodenum. Everything that is acted on by the gastric 
juice, and that is in solution, as sugar, and all kinds of liquids, 
form the peptone ; the tough fibre of the meat that cannot be 
dissolved by the gastric juice, the fat of the meat set free from 
the membrane that envelopes the globules, and all rhe other 
indigestible portions of food — the parapeptone — is expelled from 
the stomach into the duodenum, there to be acted on by the 
pancreatic juice and bile. Here the starchy portion of the food 
is again acted on, being first neutralised, and then convei-ted 
into sugar. Here, too, the fat is emulsified — that is, broken up 
into very fine particles. This is done chiefly by the pancreatic 
juice. In this way the fat can be absorbed by the lacteals and 
carried into the circulation. The bile, besides assisting in 
saponifying the fat, neutralises the acid of the gastric juice, and 
80 allows the starch to become converted into sugar. It also 
acts as an antiseptic and prevents decomposition of the food, 
and it has a slight, purgative action. When the food is pro- 
pelled still further along the bowels, fresh attempts are made 
to dissolve the albumen and gelatine that escaped digestion in 
the stomach. 

The principal cause of indigestion is when the food in the 
stomach, from the gastric juice, being deficient in quantity, or 
bad in quality, fails to get dissolved ; or the food may be in too 
great a proportion for the normal amount of gastric juice, or it 
may be too hard and tough, thus resisting the action of the 
j uice. The result of this is, that the food lies like a piece of 
lead in the stomach, and, after leaving the stomach, frequently 
causes diarrhoea and other irritant effects. 



THE CAUSES OF INDIGESTION. 



1. EATING. 

Eatihg hurriedly, the food being only partially masticated and 
mixed with saliva — ** bolting *' the food as it is called — is an 
evil which is at once apparent. In the first place, more work is 
thrown on the stomach, woik against which a weak stomach will 
rebel. Again, the food being in larger pieces, it is not so readily 
permeated by the gastric juice, and so it may escape digestion 
altogether. 

Besides eating hastily, eating too frequently is a cause of 
indigestion. Belore the last meal is digested another is taken, 
and that in its tuin, before half digested, is followed by a third, 
and so on continuously. In this way the stomach has scarcely 
any relaxation from work. The stomach, like the brain or the 
body, requires rest in order to do its work well, otherwise it 
gets exhausted and does its work imperfectly. An interval of 
four hours should intervene between each meal, hence no more 
than four meals a day should be taken ; and this should be 
adhered to except in special cases, as where a full meal cannot 
be taken at once, then nourishment may require to be taken 
more frequently. This never occurs in health. There are 
many who can never take more than three meals a day, 
supper being a proscribed meal. If properly distributed over 
the day, three will suffice. Most of us eat more frequently than 
is absolutely necessary for health, or the wants of the system. 

Bad cooking is also a fertile source of indigestion. 

2. DRINKING. 

• 

Prinking is as common a cause of indigestion as eating, and 
of all drinks alcohol is the worst. The system requires only a 
limited quantity of fluid to make up the waste of the secietions 
and to aFsist in the digestion of food. In summer the amount 
required is greater than in winter, because the perspiration is 
greater. When much exercise is taken more drink will be 
required. 

Tea and coffee, as will be further explained under ** Food," 



6 ON INDIGESTION AND DIET. 

are frequent causes of iadigestion. Here I will only refer to 
the large quantities of these sometimes taken. Tea gives rise to 
flatulence, and coffee to weight or pain in the chest. 

Alcohol, however, in one or other of its various forms, is the 
most fertile cause of dyspepsia. 

Three points should be observed in drinking spirituous liquors : — 
1st. Never take them between meals; 2nd. Always have them 
well diluted; 3rd. Always get them pure, if possible. Of 
course the quantity taken has much to do with the effects, and 
the less that is drunk, the less will be the evil that will likely 
ensue. {See Alcohol.) 

3. EXERCISE. 

This, when excessive after a full meal, is very apt to bring 
on indigestion. Gentle exercise always promotes the digestion 
of a meal. The best exercise is that of walking ; next to that 
comes riding on horseback. 

Nature agrees with the old saw :— 

"After dinner sit awhile, 
After supper walk a mile." 

During sleep the vital functions are in abeyance, and the 
nervous stimuli necesj^ary for digestion are diminished. Hence 
the wisdom of a light supper and having its digestion weJl 
advanced before bedtime. 

The want of exercise — sedentary habits — is so well known 
to be a cause of indigestion, that it is only needful to 
mention it. 

4. INFLUENCE OF THE MIND. 

Qrief, worry, anxiety, these are well-known causes of indi- 
gestion. 

When the appetite is becoming impaired, and the sight of 
food distasteful, with a feeling of ennui creeping over the body, 
the mind itself getting confused, absolute rest from business, 
and change of scene are essential to re-establish health. Bacon 
says: "Be free-minded, cheerfully disposed at hours of meal, 
. . . avoid envy, anxious fears, anger, frettitig inwards, 
subtle and knotty inquisitions, joys and exhilarations in excess, 
sadness not communicated. Entertain hopes ; mirth rather than 



T&E CAUSES OP INDIQESTIOX. 7 

joy; variety of delights rather than surfeit of them.'* "The 
dietetics of the soul/' as the Germans say, must be attended to 
as much as the "dietetics of the body" by those who are 
dyspeptic. 

5. SMiOKING AND SNUFFING. 

A good deal has been written against these habits, and, as 
might have been expected, much nonsense. Some attribute one- 
half our ailments to smoking — the other half to snuffiag. 
Smoking, if done in moderation, is not only not injurious, but 
very often beneficial. But it is essentially a luxury, and, like 
every other luxury, it is unnecessary to a healthy man. When 
it has become a strong habit it would seem needful for health ; 
if that is the case, the man is in an abnormal condition, and has 
been smoking in excess. What, it may be asked, is excess ? 
That must often depend on the individual constitution ; as what 
would be great excess in one would be only moderation in 
another. There are some who scarcely ever have a pipe or a 
cigar out of their mouth. Whenever they can have a leisure 
moment, or can find an opportunity to indulge in the weed, they 
are smoking. That certainly is excess. 

In Germany, where smoking is so notorious, physicians 
recognise an affection of the eyes, which they call tobacco 
amaurosis, where the sight becomes permanently injured. Youths 
at school, and growing lads should never smoke, for in them it 
impairs the mental as well as the physical powers. It lays the 
foundation of many nervous disorders experienced in after years. 
It causes thinning of the hair, weak eyesight, irritates the 
lungs, and stunts the growth of the body. But this is what we 
have chiefly to do with here : it is a frequent cause, both in old 
and young, of dyspepsia. It acts principally on the stomach 
through the nerves, paralysing them, arresting gastric secretion, 
and interfering with the muscular movements of the stomach. 
Thus digestion is greatly retarded, if not cut short altogether. 
Tobacco likewise retards absorption, and probably assimilation ; 
interfering with molecular changes necessary for development. 

All the good that can be obtained from smoking may be had 
from a couple of cigars, or two or three pipes of tobacco in the 
day. A cigar may do good at the end of a day's work when 
there is a feeling of weariness and exhaustion, and perhaps an 
irritable nervous system ; the sedative and slightly stimulating 



8 -ON Iin}IOESTION AND DIET. 

effect of a smoke may be refreshing and promote digestion. 
It answers a similar purpose in man to a cup of tea in women. 

I know of no good effect snuffing can have on digestion. 
Snuffers believe it stimulates the brain, and in that way does 
good to digestion ; but the good, if any, is so remote, and the 
disadvantages are so many, that it is safer to avoid it' — certainly 
for the dyspeptic. Snuff is often adulterated with lead, from 
being packed in leaden cases, the use of which may produce 
symptoms of lead poisoning. 

6. TEETH. 

Decayed teeth are a very frequent cause of dyspepsia ; so 
are the want of teeth. Mastication being in those cases very 
imperfectly performed, the stomach has to do what the 
teeth ought to have done. Substances which are hard or tough 
must be swallowed entire. The extensive use of false teeth 
makes this a less common cause of indigestion. It is not often 
that the ornamental is combined with so much of the useful as 
in false teeth. And now-a-days mechanical dentistry has got to 
such a state of perfection, that no one need suffer from indiges- 
tion on account of bad teeth . 

7. OCCUPATION. 

Painters, brass polishers, grinders, and others, who, from 
their occupation, inhale foreign particles, are frequently 
martyrs to dyspepsia in one or other of its forms. Workers 
among chemicals, miners, paper-hangers, mill-workers are also 
examples 

Those who have sedentary occupations — as clerks, milliners, 
and those who have unhealthy occupations — as cooks, iron- 
workers, &c , indeed all who spend much of their time in close 
and impure atmospheres, as well as those who, from the 
peculiar nature of their work — as shoemakers and carpenters — 
press on their stomach, suffer more often from indigestion than 
they otherwise would do. Those who have too much walking — 
as postmen, dairymen, and other pedestrians — if they eat heavily 
during the day may suffer from indigestion. In that case they 
should eat lightly during their working hours, and after they 
have done their day*s work, at supper-time, take their chief 
meal^ 



THE CAUSES OF INDIOESTIOIT. 9 

8. BAD HYGIENE 

Close, heated rooms, especially if much gas be used ; living in 
low, damp localities ; thundery weather ; relaxing air, with heat 
and moisture ; these impair digestion. Even sea air will act 
injuriously on some dyspeptics, 

9. BATHING. 

This, if done immediately after a full meal, will cause 
painful digestion. The cold acting on the capillaries of the 
skin, drives the blood inwards, and the blood having already, by 
digestion, been determined to the stomach, the excess of blood 
interferes with the flow of gastric juice. A hot bath has a 
similar effect, though from a different reason; that of causing a 
determination of blood to the skin, and a derivation from the 
stomach and internal organs. For digestion is alike interfered 
with, whether the stomach receives too much, or too little blood. 

These are a few of the more common causes of indigestion. 
I have not mentioned disease as a cause, for to do so would be 
to enumerate half the diseases of the body. The stomach being 
so intimately connected with the other organs of the bo<Iy, 
any organic or functional disorder is sure to influence the 
process of digestion. 

Having thus far considered the causes^ we have next to 
notice the principal kinds of indigestion. 

1. CONGESTIVE DYSPEPSIA, 

Or hyperamic dyspepsia {aima^ blood, and hyper excess), is 
generally chronic in its character, and the lining membrane of 
the stomach is the part affected. Of all mucous (or lining) 
membranes, that of the stomach is most exposed to the effects of 
irritants, as can be easily imagined from its being the receptacle 
of all kinds of things. 

Eating and drinking are the most prolific causes of con- 
gestion. When the stomach is in a state of weakness, on 
account of a low condition of health, ordinary food may cause 
it ; and though the stomach may be ever so stroner, continuous 
excess in eating, or food of a very indigestible character, will 
almost certainly produce it. Drinking in excess, especially raw 
•spirits, invariably produces congestion after a time. The 



to 0]f DTDIGIiSTION AND DIET. 

stomach of the drunkard, after death, is always marked by some 
morbid change which, if not congestion, has its origin in that 
condition. Poisons and powerful drugs are likewise causes. 

One of the principal evils of congestion is the secretion of 
phlegm, which is sometimes very abundant and annoying, 
causing vomiting, especially in the morning. When it is 
brought up it appears like the white of an eg^. Sometimes it 
is coloured with a pigment which gives it the appearance of 
having been mixed with soot. It takes place chiefly in the 
morning before breakfast. There is no appetite for food, but a 
craving for drink ; the tongue is more or less furred, the sides 
and extremity being red ; the breath has a disagreeable odour. 
Food, for which there is a distaste, when taken, does not often 
cause pain, though sometimes a feeling of discomfort, chiefly 
between the shoulders, and the lower part of the breast- bone, 
which continues for two or three hours after a meal. There is 
seldom vomiting, except in the morning, and nausea is not very 
common. Often there is distension from flatulence, with a 
feeling of weight and oppression in the stomach. Besides, 
there is constipation, with a dry, sallow skin ; coldness of the 
extremities and flushings of the face ; a dry cough ; frequent 
sighing; headache ; sleeplessness ; and thirst, which is always 
present. 

In Alexis St. Martin, a Canadian soldier who received a 
gun-shot wound in his stomach, that never closed. Dr. Beaumont 
for the purpose of experiment, suspended bags containing food 
inside the stomach. He found they irritated the stomach, and 
caused an erythematous or spotted appearance of the lining 
membrane, and gave rise to a feeling of weight and distress at 
the breast-bone, with slight giddiness and dimness of vision, 
then a little pain in the forehead and through the eyes, also a 
sense of tightness or stiffness across the chest. The countenance 
got sallow and sickly. After the bags were removed the soreness 
at the pit of the stomach continued. Some of the bags were 
covered with thick mucous, tinged with yellow bile. From this 
Dr. Beaumont concluded that irritating substances in the stomach 
invited the bile to flow frem the duodenum into the stomach. 
A similar state of things exists when indigestible articles of diet 
remain for any length of time in the stomach, and set up 
irritation. 

Tbeatmekt. — In the treatment of this kind of indigestion 
the flrst thing to be remembered is the diet — the kind and the 



CONGKflTIYE DYSPEPSIA. 11 

amonnt. By attention to that alone, if the disease is sot of 
long standing, a cure may be effected. This can only be 
expected in mild and recent cases. In the majority of cases the 
cure is rather tedious, and the necessity for regulating the diet 
is great. But no form of dyspepsia can be successfully treated 
without paying strict attention to the diet, nor will any medical 
treatment avail. It is often the greatest difficulty that patient 
and physician have alike to contend with : to adopt a diet that 
shall be at the same time nourishing, unirritating, unstimulating, 
and withal agreeable to the taste. The prospect of stale bread 
and water, a milk mess, and mutton is too often repugnant to 
the tastes' and habits of the dyspeptic, and will be voted as 
starvation — the remedy worse than the disease. But there is a 
great variety of plain simple food which might be taken 
without fear, nay, with advantage, by the dyspeptic, certain 
indications being kept in view. More than four meals should 
never be taken, and three will generally be sufficient for the 
digestive powers. Three, at least, should be taken, less not 
being enough to maintain the nutrition of the body, or the 
efficiency of the gastric juice. ** Extremes meet." Too few 
meals being as injurious as too many, the former causing atonic, 
the latter, congestive dyspepsia. 

Breakfast. — Unless one is very weak, breakfast should never 
be taken till out of bed ; but when the exertion of dressing is 
too much for the strength — exhaustion and consequent loss of 
appetite being the result — a glnss of milk, or milk and lime- 
water, or a cup of cocoa and milk, and a biscuit before rising, 
will be necessary to enable such a one to partake of anything. 
After dressing, a light breakfast should be taken. It is a 
mistake many make, especially ladies, to go entirely without 
breakfast, or simply take a cup of coffee without eating 
anything, till luncheon or an early dinner, and, in order to 
relieve the condition of faintness that necessarily comes on, to 
take a glass or two of wine and a biscuit. That, in the state of 
stomach we a^e considering, is injurious, aggravating the con- 
gestion, besides being insufficient for nutrition. Breakfast 
should always be taken, and it may consist of weak tea, or 
coffee with plenty of milk, without sugar when that disagrees. 
If tea and coffee both disagree, Gadbury's essence of cocoa will 
suit, or plain milk alone. When milk is too heavy for the 
stomach, it should be mixed with an equal part of lime-water, 
when it will digest easily. Whey is very good, and may be 



12 ON INDIGESTION AND DIET. 

taken if these don*t agree. Having settled the kind of drink 
that is most suitable, some plain food must be taken with it ; 
plain toast without butter, a piece of white fish — sole or 
whiting — or a softly-boiled egg. Ham and even bacon should 
be avoided. 

About three hours after breakfast a little refreshment 
should be taken — a cup of befef-tea with a biscuit. "Wine and 
spirits should be avoided. 

. DiNNEE. — A midday dinner, about two o'clock, is better in 
such cases than a late dinner. In severe cases, nothing but 
slops can be taken for the first few days, though it is well to 
remember that soups, however plain, and broths are more 
difficult to digest with some dyspeptics than more solid sub- 
stances. Usually, however, soups free from grease and spices, 
and thickened with barley, rice, or vermicelli, agree. Or beef- 
tea, mutton or chicken broths, with toasted bread and a light 
simple pudding or custard after. When more solid food can be 
digested, the best is plain fish, the lean of a mutton chop, or 
some chicken, with stale bread or rice instead of vegetables. 
If vegetables are taken they should be fresh and well-boiled, 
the potatoes being floury. Truit had better be avoided. Eeer, 
spirits, and wine strictly prohibited. "When wines will be 
taken the lighter wines are least injurious — as Claret, Hock, 
Burgundy, and Champagne. Soda-water, Seltzer-water, and 
Potash-waters are safe drinks, and the carbonic acid contained 
in these bas a sedative effect on the stomach. Jellies may be 
taken. Acid things should be avoided. 

Tfa. — Between dinner and tea, unless the dinner was so 
scanty as not to be sufficient to prevent a feeling of faintness in 
which case a cup of beef-tea may be taken, nothing should *be 
eaten. Between five and six a cup or two of weak tea, or 
milk and water, with a little dry toast — no butter. All rich 
cakes, or calces with currants, and new bread should be avoided. 
Sponge c^kes will not hurt. 

SuppEE at nine o'clock, which should be very light; bread 
and milk, arrowroot, and the like ; or a little tripe, which is 
very digestible, if made without onions. If boiled with calves' 
feet and allowed to cool, a palatable, gelatinous mass is formed. 
No beer nor cheese should be touched. A cup of beef-tea may 
be tAken as a drink. "Where the stomach is very weak beef-tea 
or gruel should alone be taken, without anything more solid. 
.A cup of beef-tea taken before going to sleep will answer if 



C05GBSTIVE DYSPEPSIA. 



13 



other things disagree or cause nausea. Early to rest is an 
important part of the treatment if the symptoms are at all 
acute. 

During the early part of the day (especially if there is thirst 
and a coated tongue) some of the mineral waters, as Carlsbad, 
Piillna, Fiiedrichshall, or Humyadi Janos, answer well. If only 
a mild laxative is needed, Carlsbad or Friedrichshall is the best ; 
when a more powerful one, Hunyadi or Piillna, 

Comparative Analysis op Mineral Waters. By Schwarz and 

Ragsky. 



Chemical Ixoredibnts. 


Hun- Fried- 
yadi. richshall 


Kis- 
siiigen. 


PUllna, 


Seidlitz. 


Carlsbad 

(Spru- 

del). 


- 


Vienna Graius. 






Sulphate of Mag^nesia 


137-98 


39-65 


39-50 


93-08 


104-00 


■ • 


Sulphate 0} Soda 


128-97 


46-51 


46-69 


123-80 




18-21 


Sulphate of Potash . 


1-67 


1-52 




4-80 


— 


125 


Chloride of Sodium . 


11-54 


6140 


61-10 






7-91 


Carbonate of Soda 


13-20 


~~ 







— 


10-45 


Carbonate of Lime 


6-04 


0-11 


— 


0-77 


8-UO 


2-28 


Oxide of Iron and ArgilO 
laceous Earth . . \ 


0-08 


latent 


— 


— 




002 


Silicic Acid 


009 


i» 


— 


017 




— 


Carbonate of Magnesia 




3-99 


— 


6-40 


3-00 


— 


Sulphate of Lime 


— 


10-34 




2-«.0 


8-00 




Chloride of Magnesium 


— 


8025 


30-20 


19-66 


3-00 


— 


Nitrate of Magnesia . 


— 


— 


— 


— 


■ ■ 


— 


Bromate of Magnesia 


— 


0-87 


latent 


— 





— 


Chloride of Lithium 




— 


0-09 


261-28 




— 


299-57 


194-24 


177-48 


126-00 


40-12 


Carbonic Acid, free and half 














combined 


8-02 


6-32 


5.09 


latent 


— — 


11-88 



From the large quantity of sulphate of soda these waters 
contain they are unattended with griping ; the modus operandi 
of the sulphate being to retain its water of solution in the 
bowel, thus softening the hard and dried contents of the bowel 
without increasing their peristaltic action, or stimulating the 
intestinal glands. But it stimulates the entire excretory 
processes, increasing the flow of urine, and helping to deprive 
the tissues of their superfluous fat and acidity. Half-a-pint 



14 OK IKDIOBSTIOK AND DIBT. 

should be taken on an empty stomach an hour or two before 
breakfast, to be repeated in the eTeuing if necessary. 

Rochelle salts (Seidlitz powders) or Harrogate salts are 
both very useful. Whatever salt is determined on should be 
taken on an empty stomach, and dissolved in a tumblerful of 
, cold water ; and the first thing in the morning is the best time. 
The object of these purgatives is not only to remove offending 
matters, but to produce an alterative effect on the mucous 
membrane, stimul&ting it to take on a more healthy action. 

The alkaline or gaseous waters of Vals or Vichy are very 
useful, after the Carlsbad or saline have been taken. They act 
in a different way — the chief ingredient being the bicarbonate 
of soda. Part of this bicarbonate is decomposed in the stomach 
and carbonic acid is formed, which has a sedative effect on the 
congested mucous lining ; part neutralises the free and super- 
abundant acid of the stomach, and the mucous then becomes 
more easily removed. The alkali, still acting on the gastric 
glands, stimulates them, and more gastric juice is secreted, and of 
a better quality. Besides the local there are more general and 
physiological effects produced, which should not be overlooked. 
Soda, more than potash or ammonia is required for the blood, 
and has the effect of rendering it more fluid, thus permitting it 
to permeate better every tissue and vessel ; general secretion 
and excretion are thereby improved, the chjle is better prepared, 
and the lacteals take up richer and more reparative materials. 
A glass or two of these waters may be taken twice a day, an 
hour before the principal meals. They should not be continued 
beyond a week or ten days, unless under advice, otherwise 
debility and impoverished blood may be the result. Those 
who can go and live for a month or two at the Spas get more 
quickly cured of their chronic dyspepsia, for they have not only 
the waters, but, what is of equal importance, change of living, 
diet, scenery, society, and occupation. 

The above remarks on treatment especially hold good where 
the congestion is the result of indiscretion, either in eating or 
drinking, or when it is caused by congestion of the liver. In 
other cases a more sedative plan of treatment will answer 
better, 

2, IRRITATIVE DYSPEPSIA. 

I consider this a sufficiently common and troublesome form 
of indigestion to deserve separate consideration. It has for its 



JRBITA.TITE DrSPEPSIA. 15 

pathological basis congestion, and is thus closely allied and often 
intimately mixed up with the congestive form just considered. 
But the congestion may be very slight, and the constitutional 
disturbances excessive. There may be said to be an irritative 
diathesis, for we often find that a slight irritant applied to the 
surface may excite constitutional disturbances out of all popor- 
tion to the local cause. Therefore, irritative dyspepsia is 
signalised by symptoms which are not principally locals but 
show signs of its presence at some distance from the stomach, 
as the tongue, the lungs, the skin, the liver, or the brain. 
The nerves themselves escape injury (therefore differing fi'om 
nervotis dyspepsia), and are merely the conveyers of the 
irritation. 

The tongue is coated with a thick white or yellowish fur, 
and thus far showing constitutional disturbance ; but on 
investigation we find the temperature and pulse normal ; no 
tenderness over the stomach or liver, or any affection of the 
other organs. What, then, is the cause of the furred tongue ? 
A peculiar disposition in the individual, an idiosyncrasy not 
always present, perhaps, but frequently manifested in the same 
person. The irritation of the stomach excites the follicles of 
the tongue to increased cell- proliferation, seen in the thick fur 
on the tongue. When the irritation is excessive the tongue is 
covered with a thick yellowish fur — the mucous cells converted 
into pus cells. 

It is frequently associated with debility of the system 
generally, and of the stomach in particular. In females of a 
nervous or hysterical teuiperament it may very commonly be 
seen, also when they are anaemic, or weak from the effects of 
some discharge. In such cases the dyspepsia is symptomatic. 

The circulation of any poison in the blood, as arsenic or 
lead, may cause it. So those who suffer from a gouty or 
rheumatic constitution are especially prone to it ; so are the 
consumptive. Indeed, we find it wherever there are organic 
diseases of the kidneys, heart, liver, or other organ. But it 
may exist without any organic dieease, or even functional 
disorder, and where no known cause can be assigned to it, 
except, perhaps, slight congestion of the stomach, and the 
constitutional irritability. That irritability is manifesto I in 
other ways, and with no dyspeptic symptoms, and it is only 
in some patients that the stomach is the seat of the irritability. 
The skin is frequently the seat of the disorder, eruptions. 



16 ON INDIGESTION AND DIET. 

congestions, and inflammations resulting from slight irritating 
causes. Tlie eyes are in others a source of constant annoyance; 
in a third the mucous memhrane of the nose ; and in a fourth, 
shall I say, the temper. The nervous system is primarily at 
fault in all such cases. 

Though the stomach may not be irritable in the sense of 
rejecting everything that comes in contact with it, as in nervous 
dyspepsia, yet the plainest diet is, if I may use the expression, 
doubtfully or hesitatingly received by it. The food does not 
sit nicely, is a common expression, and when anything is eaten 
a disagreeable taste in the mouth soon follows, with a more or 
les^s thickly coated tongue. 

In mild cases the only symptoms complained of may 
be furred tongue in the morning, the mouth, on waking, 
being filled with saliva, some of which may have run 
on to the pillow. A nasty taste in the mouth ; no thirst ; 
appetite fairly good. A burning sensation in the feet on going 
to bed, so that a cool place is sought for. 

There may be a dry, troublesome cough, often accompanied 
with uncomfortable irritation in the throat, leading the patient 
to suspect that consumption has set in. It is this that is the 
matter, and no affection of the lungs whatever, in most of the 
advertised cases of so-called cure when in consumption. Though 
it is possible, if this form of indigestion were of long duration, 
that it might to a certain extent predispose to consumption, as 
well as to diseases of other organs. 

There is no tenderness on pressure over the stomach, nor is 
pain complained of as a rule, though it may be after eating, if 
the food is at all of an indigestible nature. Sickness and nausea 
are absent, a feeling of fulness being the nearest approach to 
the latter. Diarrhoea is sometimes present. As soon as any 
food is taken the bowels act from muscular irritability of the 
coats, and the food is passed undigested. 

As has been said, there is a disagreeable taste in the mouth 
after eating, also a furred tongue. The latter is seldom absent, 
and it remains till the indigestion is cured. Though I have 
one patient who always has a **foul tongue," and no treatment 
that can be suggested does anything towards removing it ; with 
that exception the patient is in good health ; only now and 
again she suffers from an acute attack of irritative dyspepsia. 
Change of life has doubtless something to do with it 

When irritative dyspepsia is combined or complicated with 



ATONIC DTSPSP8IA, 17 

other diseases, symptoms peculiar to each will be manifested 
which it is not necessary to enumerate here« {8^ oho Nerrous 
Dyspepsia. ) 

TaRATMBNT.^This is one of the most difficult forms of 
indigestion to treat, its cause being frequently Tory obscure. 
The diet should be bland and unstimulating, similar to that 
ordered uoder the head of ** Congestive Dyspepsia." Tea 
should be left off, and coffee should have more than half milk. 
All fermented liquors are bad. If alcohol is taken, a table<*> 
spoonful of whisky in a tumbler of water, with dinner, is the 
best form. If there is sleeplessness, a glassful of sherry-negus 
on going to bed is sometimes useful. 

Exercise, change of air and scenery, freedom from woxry, 
regular living, and a resolute will to persevere in a plan of 
treatment prescribed, will often be needed to effect a cure. 

Purgatives are injurious, and after a simple purge at the 
commencement of the attack they should be careftilly avcHded, 
or used with much caution. 

Special treatment suitable for the individual disease will be 
requisite when other organs are affected. 

Sea bathing is injurious ; and if baths be taken at all they 
should be warm ones. 

If after the irritation has been removed there remains a 
weak stomach and enfeebled digestion, tonics must be had 
recourse to. 

8- ATONIC DYSPEPSIA. 

This is the dyspepsia of debility , a debility in which the 
stomach and the general system may participate, or the stomach 
alone may be affected. 

Causes. — The causes of this condition of stomach are many, 
but it will suffice to point out a few of the chief. 

As might be expected, those who are sickly and delicate 
suffer most from it. This is true whether the deliccu^y of con- 
stitution is acquired or hereditary. Therefore women suffer 
more than men, partly from being of a more delicate consti- 
tution, and partly from their habits. The aged, for an obvious 
reason, are more liable to weak digestion than those who are 
younger ; those who have indoor or sedentary occupation more 
than those who have plenty of exercise in the open air. Whatever 
weakens the body, as discharges, hsemorrhages, suppurations, 



18 ON iin>ioE8noN akd diet. 

or prolonged suckling; or depresses the mind, as worry or 
disappointment, also weakens the stomach, and unless the 
causes are removed it will he vain to hope to get rid of the 
indigestion. The stomach is almost the first organ in the body 
to participate in general debility ; therefore avoid everything^ and 
try aud remove everything that weakens the body. 

Drinking much tea and poor living are frequent causes. 

The STMProMs are more numerous even than the causes. The 
chief symptom complained of is pain after eatingy coming on 
soon after, and lasting two or three hours till gastric digestion 
is completed. The pain is of a heavy, dull character, but not 
sharp. It amounts more to a weight felt in the chest, at the 
breast-bone (sternum) or between the shoulders ; more under the 
left than the right blade-bone ; frequently felt in the left chest 
in the region of the heart, thus causing the patient to suspect 
heart disease. The pain experienced is often of a prickly, 
stinging character ; sometimes a sensation as if something were 
drawing together the chest and the back, thus causing the 
patient to draw a deep breath with the hope of being able to 
remove the obstacle. 

After the food has gone from the stomach into the bowel 
the pain disappears, but only to return again with the next 
meal. Hence eating becomes a dread, lest this '' pain in the 
ehest " should be brought on. Fluids do not cause the pain as a 
rule, though in some few cases they are as bad as solids. 
There is seldom or never any thirst. The appetite is bad, and 
most kinds of food distasteful, unless very deHcate and savoury 
to tempt the appetite. Although liquid foods do not cause 
a ** weight," they, as well as the more solid food, often cause 
pain from flatulence or acidity, the result of fermentation. 
Heartlurn may be experienced, and a rancid fluid, with half- 
digested food, may rise into the mouth. Pyrosis, or water- 
brash (a tasteless fluid rising into the mouth), is common ; also 
hiccough. There is seldom any sickness or vomiting. The tongue 
is pale, broad, and flabby ; clean unless there is irritation, in 
which case, as we pointed out under that affection, there is a 
white fur, more or less thick, according to the amount of 
irritation. Headache and giddiness are frequently felt; con- 
stipation is a constant symptom, also distended abdomen and 
borborygmi, or rumbling of the bowels. The pulse is weak, 
and there is a feeling of languor, with a disinclination for work. 
A sensation of sinking is often experienced at the pit of the 



ATONIC DYSPEPSIA. 19 

stomach, followed by a sense of fulness. There is no tenderness 
over the region of the stomach. The bowels are generally con- 
stipated, though if anything difficult to digest be eaten diarrhoea is 
likely to come on. The countenance is sallow and pale, and the 
patient may get thin. 

Whento this atonic condition of the stomach is added an 
inflammatory attack, as is not unfrequently the case from inju- 
dicious dietign, smyptoms peculiar to the congestion or in- 
flammation will arise. Again, when there are nervous symptoms, 
extreme languor of body and mind will be felt, aching m the 
limbs and pains in the knees ; irritability of disposition ; listless- 
ness with forgetfulness, palpitation and shortness of breath, with 
a dry cough. When to these cold, clammy sweats are added, 
the patient begins to get frightened and thinks he has heart 
disease or is consumptive ; and not without reason, as incipient 
coE sumption is frequently ushered in by similar signs. 

'I RElTMENT. — ^This to be successful will depend on a great 
variety of things : the cause of the atony ; the length of time it 
has lasted ; the condition of the patient, and his surroundings. 
If it is purely a local affection, and of short duration, it is easily 
cured. If, on the other hand, the patient has a delicate con- 
stitution, and is placed under bad hygienic conditions — little 
exercise and little fresh air — the dyspepsia will be a much more 
difficult thing to get rid of. 

Being essentially a disease of weakness, the first thing to be 
done is to remove all fluxes or discharges, if any should be 
present, in this way to husband the strength. This alone will 
often do much to effect a cure. Everything must be done and 
taken that will improve the strength ; but here the greatest 
caution will be required. Eating too much, or eating im proper 
food, is worse than taking too little nourishment. A weak 
stomach can never digest strong food. No rule for diet can be 
laid down to suit every one ; special cases will require special 
directions. The following hints will be generally applicable : — 
Stimulating foods and drinks should be used with the greatest 
caution, for simulation is not strength, and it may do harm by 
producing irritant or inflammatory effects. A glass of brandy 
and water, or a glass of wine, may remove the feeling of faint- 
ness for a time, and enable some food to be taken which 
otherwise would have to be left alone. But the fact that a 
quantity of foo i has been disposed of is not proof that it will 
bd digested and assimilated. And what is the effect on the 

G 2 



20 ON IKDIOESTION AND DIET. 

Btomach ? The weak stomach, forced by a stimulant to receive 
a quantity of food quite unsuited to it, is overtaxed and 
irritated. The effect of the stimulant is like a whip or a spur to 
a jaded horse, a little more work is got out of it. But the cost 
in the case of the stomach, as in the case of the horse if it is 
valuable, is too great, and, if often repeated, will tell. This is a 
frequent cause, I imagine, of that confirmed dyspepsia to which 
many are martyrs. What is wanted is not stimulants, but 
ionics — to give tone to the muscles and vitality to the nerve ; 
that is the only genuine force, or rather aids to force, for food 
is the true force. 

The diet to be used should be limited in quantity and 
nutritious in quality ; easily digested, administered frequently 
according to the quantity taken, and the weakness of the 
patient. Milk, beef-tea, extract of meat, eggs, and farinaceous 
food ; then fish, mutton, beef, and tripe, to be selected according 
to the ability to digest. {See Food.) Classes 3 and 4 should be 
avoided. If milk alone be too heavy, it may be mixed with 
equal parts of lime-water, which will make it easily digestible ; 
or it may be boiled with corn-flour, arrowroot, or given in the 
form of a custard or light pudding, when it will usually agree. 
Beef-tea or mutton broth, with toasted or stale bread, or 
aerated bread or biscuits. "When anything is known to disagree, 
causing acidity or flatulence, it should be avoided. In many 
cases the patient can tell better than the doctor what to take 
and what to avoid. Where there is much acidity, saccharine 
substances should be used sparingly, or altogether eschewed, 
and so should too much starchy food. Wines and malt liquors, 
if they ferment in the stomach and cause flatulence, should also 
be left off. Where they agree, a glass or two of dry sherry 
during the day, or a glass of bottled bitter ale, taken with meals, 
does no harm. If these cannot be taken without injury, and 
some stimulant must be had recourse to, a little brandy or 
whisky well diluted with water is best. Spirits have the 
advantage over wines and beers, of not fermenting. Claret and 
other acid light wines are very good. To get all the good that 
alcoholic beverages can give, and none of the harm, they should 
be taken in measured quantities and sparingly, and always with 
food. 

For other drinks cocoa and coffee are best; tea must be 
sparingly used. 

If the dyspepsia is only slight, vegetables may be taken, but 



ATONIC DYSPEPSIA. 21 

they should be young, fresh, and well-cooked. Potatoes should 
be mealy, and neither very young nor very old ; the former being 
too waxy, and the latter too sweet from the sugar they contain. 
Peas and beans are bad, unless the peas are young and soft. 
Fruits, as strawberries, oranges, and grapes, are harmless, devoid 
of skins and pips. Apples should be cooked ; pears and plums 
avoided. Jellies are good. All kinds of pastry are bad ; so are 
rich and seasoned dishes, oily and fatty foods ; shell fish ; cod 
and salmon ; salted meats, bloaters, &c., the whole of Glasses 3 
and 4. 

Three or four meals a day in the majority of cases will be 
quite sufficient, the fourth being a very light one, as gruel or 
beef-tea. Three or four hours should elapse between each 
meal ; four or five after dinner if that be the chief one. This 
will enable the stomach to digest the food, aud have an hour or 
two of rest afterwards. The stomach requires rest like every 
other organ. I pity the stomachs of some poor creatures who ply 
them with food before the preceding meal iar half digested ; and 
yet they wonder why they suffer from indigestion. The other 
extreme is to be guarded against — too long rest, else exhaustion 
will be the result.. It will be well, then, for the weakly and 
delicate to take a light breakfast in bed before dressing in the 
morning, otherwise, after the long period of fasting, the 
exertion of dressing may destroy the^ little appetite there 
may be. 

Ice and cold water promote gastric secretion if not taken in 
too large a quantity. Food made acidulous with vinegar, or 
other acid, causes less gastric juice to be poured forth. Hut acids 
taken after meals, half an hour or an hour, are often the most 
powerful aids to digestion that we possess, and for the 
following reasons : — A limited quantity of gastric juice can only 
be poured forth, regulated more by the requirements of the 
system than the quantity of food taken; therefore, if a meal be 
taken large in proportion to the gastric juice present in the 
stomach, or capable of secretion, only a definite quantity can 
be digested, not because, as Dr. Carpenter has well pointed out, 
the pepsine has lost its power, but because the dissolved food— • 
the peptones — ^interferes with its farther action, the pepsine being 
of the nature of a ferment. Just as alcohol, when formed in 
large quantities during the process of fermentation, puts a stop 
to the fermentation by virtue of its presence ; so when a 
limited quantity of gastxio juice ia in the presence of a large 



22. ON INPI6ESII0N AND DIET. 

quantity of nitrogenous food, the acid, so to speak, gets used up- 
before the pepsine, and fresh acid added enables the pepsine to 
digest more of the food. This is an important fact to bear in 
mind, even when one is in perfect health ; for the large 
amount of food many consume is never digested; much is 
wasted. And in atonic dyspepsia, when the gastric juice is 
present in a much less proportion than in health, the rationale of 
regulating the kind and quantity of food is apparent, as well as 
using means to increase the quantity of the juice, or to utilise it 
to the utmost by adding fresh acid. 

Taking pepsine can only be of use when that happens to be 
deficient. It is obtained from the stomach of the calf or pig. 
It does not do the good it might, as that usually sold is quite 
inert. Either the way in which it is prepared, or the time it is 
kept, destroys its power. Dr. Pavy recommends artificially- 
digested food for weak stomachs, but food so prepared is very 
unpalatable. 

Obstinate constipation should be combated {see Consti- 
pation) by dieting and gentle purgatives. Powerful opening 
medicines, as jalap and black draughts, do harm. 

In the summer months, especially if hot, a very trouble- 
some form of this dyspepsia is experienced, and, from the 
languor produced by the heat, it may take a long time to get rid 
of, unless change of air be taken ; then it will yield much more 
speedily than if treated at home by medicines only. Th< 
reason of this is that the system generally, as well as tht 
stomach, is out of sorts, and a change invigorates both. 



4. NERVOUS OR NEURALGIC DYSPEPSIA. 

With this form of indigestion the atonic is generally asso-: 
ciated, though it may exist alone, the nerves being essentially the 
parts affected. It is closely allied to the irritative dyspepsia, 
though distinct from it. The nerves of the stomach may be the 
only ones perceptibly at fault, though in most instances they 
are only the outward expression of a more general inner- 
vation, or nerve disturbance. Mal-nutrition is probably the 
foundation of all painful affections of the nerves ; some important, 
element, as iron or phosphorus, being withheld from them, or 
something abnormal carried to theou Men and women alike 
suffer from this, the elderly more so than the younger. In 



NERTOITS OB NEURALGIC DTSPBP8IA. 23^ 

hysterical women, and hypochondriacal men, it may assume 
painful proportions. Whatever exhausts the body predisposes 
to it ; but of all the causes none is so fertile as the mind when 
it is worried or anxious. It is in this form of indigestion where 
the mind exercises its injurious influences over the body, the 
stomach bearing the brunt of the attack. The influence of the 
mind over the body has already been mentioned, and it is the 
nervous form of dyspepsia that is most frequently complained 
of. "When one is greatly worried or anxious, or mentally 
overwrought, if dyspeptic symptoms are added, the mental are 
aggravated, and the one reacting on the other, a rather unhappy 
condition is reached. 

The symptoms are very numerous and varied, and are local 
and general in their nature. 

Local.— Pain is nearly always a constant symptom, and, 
unlike the pain in other dyspepsias, it is worse hefore eating— 
that is, when the stomach is empty. Eating may for a time 
relieve it, perhaps as long as food remains in the stomach ; if 
there is atony combined with the nervousness, the pain comes 
on an hour or so after food has been taken, and then, with only 
slight intermissions, it lasts till something else is eaten. The 
pain may be very great, or only a dull, sinking, uncomfortable 
sensation may be experienced, scarcely amounting to pain. 
Vomiting is a very frequent symptom, seldom accompanied with 
much nausea. As soon as anything is taken, whether food or 
drink, it is up again. The appetite is capricious; sometimes 
entirely gone, at other times the most indigestible things are 
desired, and even cheese may cause less pain than milk or 
beef-tea. Thirst is sometimes felt ; also heartburn and hiccough. 
Flatulence and acidity are usually very annoying, especially 
the former. There are flushings in the face ; headache ; giddi- 
ness ; specks before the eyes ; and a feeling of inertia — languid, 
low-spirited, and disinclined to work. Anomalous sensations, 
as ansesthesia, tenderness, ''pins and needles" in the limbs, 
with coldness of feet and lower extremities. Eruptions on the 
skin, as nettle-rash ; and redness of the nose suddenly appearing 
from imperfect innervation. Drowsiness or sleeplessness, with 
palpitation and constipation, are likewise troublesome symptoms. 
Gurgling noises in the bowels, with pain in the lower part of 
the stomach in the right side, just above the groin. The 
urine is pale, and often contains oxalate of lime. The tongue 
is pale, broad, and quivering when protruded; or it may be 



24 OK DmiGXsnoK akd diet. 

abnormally red, or sometimes ftirred, though usually clean. 
Sometimes the patient has '< the fidgets " ; when he sits down 
he constantly keeps moving about his knees and arms, shifting 
his position from time to time, and never seems at rest. These 
are symptoms occasionally seen. 

Neuralgias of all mucous membranes tend to increase their 
secretion, hence we have increased gastric secretion here '^ but the 
fluid is not possessed of much digestive properties. It rises up 
in the mouth (pyrosis) either as a tasteless or acid fluid. Soon 
after a meal the stomach gets distended, before the food has had 
time to ferment, therefore the gas must be secreted from the 
mucous membrane. The acidity often complained of is from 
hypersecretion more than from fermentation. 

Nervous women suffer much from pain over the " heart " 
and flutterings at the stomach ; the breath foul, and a disagree- 
able taste in the mouth on waking. There may be neuralgic 
pains in other parts. 

Tbeatment. »The cure of this kind of indigestion is often 
tedious, and taxes the patience of the sufferer. Much will 
depend on the causes, and the conditions under which the patient 
is placed. The cause frequently lying deeper than the stomach, 
a more general plan of treatment will be necessary. Everything 
likely to cause it — as worry, overwork, poor living, low, damp, 
or unhealthy surroundings, fluxes of all kinds — these having 
been removed, or reduced to a minimum, the patient is placed 
in a favourable position. A tonie plan of treatment will then 
be necessary. 

The use of baths greatly expedites the cure, indeed is 
indispensable in some cases. Sea-bathing, the cold plunge, or 
shower baths or, what is better still, the hydrotherapy of the 
French. They have establishments for the purpose, but it. may 
be done at home in the following way : — On getting out of bed 
11 rap the body in a sheet, gently wrung out of cold water, for 
two or three minutes, then rub the body with it ; then rub with 
a dry (not warmed) towel ; afterwards dress and start for a 
brisk walk of three-quarters of an hour ; then return to break? 
fast. This may be repeated at bedtime. 

Mineral waters are also useful, especially the Chalybeate^ 
from the iron they contain. The Yals, Yichy, Seltzer, and 
Lithia neutralise acidity and act on the bowels, and have a 
sedative effect, on account of the carbonic acid they contain. 

Liqueurs are agreeable aromatios, relieving flatulence, «9 



KEBTOFS OB ITEUBALGIC DYSPEPSIA. 25 

the Anisette fine de HoUande, or the yellow liqueur of Grande 
Chartreuse. 

Alcohol. — By virtue of the known physiological action of 
alcohol, spirits are more useful in this form of indigestion thau 
in any other. Its action being stimulant, then narcotic, it is 
very useful in lulling the pain and relieving the sinking 
complained of, thus enabling more nourishment to be taken. 
But its use must be guarded, and its quantity measured, if its 
good effects only would be obtained, two or three ounces of 
whisky, or brandy, with water, in twenty-four hours; or two or 
three glasses of champagne, and, unless it increases the flatulence, 
a glass of sherry with hot water and sugar on going to bed will 
promote sleep. Beer and ales will usually prove injurious, and 
should be abstained from. 

The diet should consist of nitrogenous food chiefly ; 
farinaceous substances being less suitable on account of their 
tendency to ferment, thus causing acidity and flatulence. 
Plain soup, beef-tea, fish, beef, mutton, or fowl ; toasted bread 
or biscuit ; a sparing supply of butter, fatty and saccharine ^ 
substances. Highly animalised food, by improving the quality ' 
of the blood — ^increasing the proportion of red corpuscles — better 
nourishes the nervous system, and so destroys the tendency to 
neuralgias. Therefore as much beef and mutton as can be 
digested should be taken, and pepsine may be taken with it to 
assist Vegetable diet has an opposite effect, that of lowering 
the proportion of red blood corpuscles. 

In some cases of nervous indigestion fluids are more difficult of 
digestion than solids, and a piece of chicken or beef will answer 
better than either chicken broth or beef-tea. 

OALVAiasu. — This is frequently recommended in dyspepsia, 
but it is of no value whatever except in some forms of that just 
considered. It is especially useful in nervous vomiting, and 
nervous pain in the stomach, occurring in the hysterical. It 
should be applied along the spine, or one handle over the 
stomach, the other behind the neck. The best form of 
apparatus is the continuous current of an ordinary galvanic 
battery — as a Daniell's — with a sufficient number of cells to 
make it strong. The various magneto-electiic machines adver- 
tised have no advantage over the ordinary galvanic battery, 
indeed are not so good. They act chiefly on the mind. 



26 ON INDIGESTION AND DIET. 

5. STRUMOUS DYSPEPSIA, 

Or scrofulous indigestion. This is seen chiefly among young 
children. Many of them eat ravenously, hut get thinner in 
spite of the food taken. At first there is no disease of the 
bowels, but the mucous membrane of the stomach and the 
duodenum do not readily absorb the proper amount of nourish- 
ment. Soon the glandular structure becomes involved, the 
motions get greenish or clayey coloured, the belly large and the 
extremities pale and cold, and all the symptoms of consumption 
supervene, which soon cut off the child. The same thing is 
seen in the adult, when it has been called phthisical dyspepsia^ 
and they are too often the premonitory symptoms of consumption. 
It commences with failure of appetite, debility, white furred 
tongue, a distaste for fats and oily foods. There are acid 
eructations, flatulence, and a tendency to night perspirations. 

Teeatment. — Cod-liver oil in ten or fifteen drop doses in 
children ; or olive oil rubbed inside the thighs, or on the 
stomach, before the fire, night and morning. The oil should 
never be given on an empty stomach. In children the food 
should consist of plenty of rich milk, eggs, and beef-tea. At 
breakfast the fat of bacon will be easily digested. 

6. INTESTINAL DYSPEPSIA. 

It has already been mentioned, in the physiology of digestion, 
that after the food escapes from the stomach it enters the upper 
part of the bowel (duodenum), and is then subjected to the 
intestinal juice, the bile, and the fluid from ^Q pancreas; these 
act chiefly on the oily and starchy portions of the food ; only 
slightly on the nitrogenous. When these juices are from any 
cause deteriorated in quality, or diminished in quantity, the 
fatty portion of the food, and the starchy, may escape from the 
bowels without being digested at all. If those foods are taken 
in too great quantity, they may also escape digestion. Some- 
times portions of animal food, too difficult of digestion for the 
stomach, enter the duodenum and cause pain. 

The symptoms of this form of dyspepsia are : pain just below 
the pit of the stomach, of a griping character, coming on from 
three to five hours after a me£d, and lasting for an indefinite 
time, frequently causing diarrhcea, and tenderness on pressure. 
Flatulence^ is a constant symptom, and very often, especially in 



INTESTINAL DYSPEPSIA. 27 

the old, the only symptom. The intestinal juices have not the 
same power of preventing fermentation as the gastric, and if the 
food is detained, on account of sluggish howels, or other cause, 
for more than three or four hours, fermentation is sure to set in. 
The presence of fat or starch in the stools therefore indicates 
intestinal indigestion. This is a constant symptom in con- 
sumptives and children who waste away, therefore pancreatic 
juice and bile, artificially obtained, have been given with benefit 
in that class of cases. Pancreatic emuhion^ being oil emulsitied 
with pancreatic juice, frequently removes the intestinal indi- 
gestion, nourishes the body, and enables ordinary diet to be 
digested. In adults this kind of indigestion is usually temporary, 
and the result of some indigestible lood, as pork or veal, and 
beefsteak pies. A simple purge will suffice to remove it, with 
a plain milk diet for a day or two. All the articles in Class 4 
{see Food) will be likely to produce this kind of indigestion, 
unless the powers of digestion are good. 

If the diarrhoea does not carry off the undigested food, 
vomiting frequently sets in. 



SYMPTOMS OP INDIGESTION. 

As. we frequently find some one symptom so prominent, and 
troublesome, as to solely attract the patient's attention, causing 
other symptoms, if any, to be overlooked or disregarded, a 
few words on each of the symptoms may be useful. 

1. PAIN BEFORE EATING. 

Fain in the stomach when one gets up in the morning, or in 
the middle of the night,* even when no supper has been taken, 
or four or five hours after any light meal, when sufficient time 
has elapsed for its complete digestion, depends on the nerves of 
the stomach— is a neurosis. There is a pain which is sometimes 
experienced three or four hours after a full meal, and must not 
be confounded with the above pain, as this may be the result of 
intestinal dyspepsia, already described. Here the treatment 
necessary to remove the pain is very different to that required 
for the nervous pain, as the former more resembles the congestive 
or irritative indigestions. Accompanying the nervous pain in 
the pit of the stomach, there is often pain under the left breast, 
or below the shoulders, or in the right side ; also neuralgia of 
the face, head, or some other part of the body. It is most 
frequently seen in women, or nervous men, mostly at middle 
life, or old age. It resembles the pain of colic, and is called 
gastrodynia ; it may be very severe or only slight. When it 
IS severe it is probably caused by muscular contraction, and 
therefore not so much nervous in its origin. But this cramp- 
like pain may have a nervous as well as a muscular origin, 
though one or the other element will usually predominate. If 
the pain is of long standing, and persistent in character, it may 
arise from the presence of either an ulcer or cancer ; if these 
exist, other symptoms, which will throw light on the disease, 
will usually be present. The presence of acidity, pyrosis, or 
flatulence is also a constant source of pain before food. Pain in 
the region of the stomach is frequently mistaken for the pain 
under consideration, and may be due to the liver, gall stones. 



STUPTOMS OP IKDIO^IION. 29 

or even muscular pains in the abdominal walls, in which case 
there is tenderness on pressure, a sym >tom seldom complained 
of in nervous pain, or '' pain betore food." Pain, when the 
stomach is empty, is often relieved by taking some food or 
drink. Tho appetite may be unaffected or capricious. The 
health will be fairly maintained in spite of the continuous pain, 
which would not be the case if there were organic disease of 
the stomach. Pain in the side and over the region of the 
kidney is frequently dyspeptic. 

Tbeatment. — The relief of this is often the most tedious 
and difficult of all the symptoms of dyspepsia, and for the 
simple reason that the local pain is too frequently the expression 
of a general constitutional malady, and in order to effectually 
remove the pain, the tone of the system must be improved. 
As might be expected, it is most stubborn in nervous females, 
especially those who are badly nourished or weakened from 
(discharges. After removing, as far as possible, everything that 
tends to lower, and placing the patient in good hygienic con- 
dition, with plenty of good food and air, and sufficient exercise, 
the patient will be placed in a fair way to recovery. The diet 
should be nourishing, with abundance of animal food. It is 
the height of folly for young ladies, still in their teens, to live, 
as they so often do, on bread and butter, and without animal 
food. Nourishing diet, an hour or two of exercise daily in the 
open air, and the discontinuance of tea, will do much to remove 
the constant '*pain in the side." 

2. PAIN AFTER EATING. 

This is more common than the preceding, and where it is 
not from any organic disease, as ulcer or cancer, it is the result of 
weakness (atony), or congestion of the stomach. It comes on 
from half an hour to an hour-and-a-half after a meal, and 
usually lasts for three or four hours, till gastric digestion is 
finished ; sometimes even after the food has left the stomach. {See 
Intestinal Dyspepsia) The pain may likewise be felt when the 
stomach is perfectly healthy, if anything very indigestible has 
been eaten. In that case relief may not be had till the offend- 
ing substance has passed out of the stomach. Pain after food 
has been taken may be very slight, only amounting te a feeling 
of uneasiness or weight in the chest, or between the shoulders, 
or it may be very severe, and give no rest till the food is gone. 



30 ON IKDIGESTION AND DIET. 

After that the relief is generally complete, and lasts till another 
meal is taken. This is trtie unless the pain is of a neuralgic or 
inflammatory character, in which case the pain may be inde- 
pendent of food ; or if from very indigestible food, irritant eifbcts 
may remain after the cause has been removed. 

In the treatmeat of this the diet is all important, and should 
be of the simplest possible kind— Classes 1 and 2. {See Food.) 

3. TENDERNESS. 

When pressure is made over the pit of the stomach pain is 
felt. This is not often complained of by dyspeptics, but some- 
times it exists in the catarrhal or inflammatory stages of the 
disease, also in the neuralgic. This pain is very frequently 
confounded "with neuralgia, or muscular pains caused by rheuma- 
tism. In that case the pain is more superflcial and not affected 
by eating. When the tenderness is confined to one spot some 
organic disease of the stomach, as cancer or ulcer, maybe present, 
or an acute inflammatory attack. Mere functional derangement 
of the stomach can scarcely cause tenderness. 

Treatment. — Beef-tea, milk, and farinaceous diet, and the 
avoidance of spirits and tea, or whatever stimulates. 

4. VOMITING. 

Sometimes this is the principal symptom complained of, and 
a very troublesome one it may be. No sooner is food taken 
than it is rejected, and even drinks may not be tolerated. When 
the vomiting occurs, unaccompanied with the feeling of nausea, 
it has a nervous origin, and may be the result of irritation re- 
flected from some other organ, as congestion of the brain, the 
stomach itself being healthy. When such is the case the treat- 
ment must be directed more to the organ affected than to the 
stomach. 

If nausea precedes or accompanies the vomiting it has a 
congestive or inflammatory origin, and is said to be ** bilious," 
though the bile may have nothing to do with it. If the vomit- 
ing is severe, or continues for any length of time, bile is mixed 
with the matter vomited, but bile is no more the cause of it than 
it is in sea-sickness, where it is entirely the result of the strain- 
ing, the muscular effects forcing the bile upwards into the 
stomach, instead of downwards to the bowels. When the liver 



SYMPTOMS OP INDIGESTION. 31 

is congested, and the stomach at the same time implicated, true 
hiltous vomiting then occurs. In other cases it is a misnomer, 
the presence of bile being simply the effect of the vomiting. 

Vomiting is so frequently symptomatic of other diseases 
besides those of the stomach, that that fact must not be lost sight 
of. The vomited matters may consist of the food or drink taken, 
or of mucus, or bile, or blood, or* matter (pus). When the latter 
is present, there is either ulceration, cancer, or some tumour. 
It does not occur in mere dyspepsia, though phlegm or mucus 
is common enough. Bile, as has been said, may be the result of 
retching or continuous vomiting. It is rather a sign of health 
than otherwise, as those who suffer from chronic diseases seldom 
vomit bile. Blood, usually from ulceration, may come in large 
quantities, and is nearly always dark in colour. Tbere may be 
streaks of blood in inflammatory or congestive attacks. When 
it comes from the stomach its darkness in colour is from the 
action of the gastric juice ; when from the lungs it is of a bripjht 
colour. When phlegm is vomited it takes place the first thing 
in the morning, and is from catarrh of the stomach, and most 
commonly induced by drinking spirits. In infants an over- 
loaded stomach is the most common cause of vomiting, and next 
to that teething and affections of the head. 

Green bile is vomited when the stomach acts on it, the 
gastric juice turning it green. 

Teeatment. — Very little food of any kind should be taken 
for twelve hours, as the stomach should be rested. Ice, witb 
or without the aerated waters, may be useful. Alcoholic beve- 
rages should be abstained from. 

5. FLATULENCE. 

Kext to pain this is the most frequent and distressing symp- 
tom, especisdly in old people, or in those who are very nervous. 
The hysterical, hypochondriacal, and large eaters are martyrs to 
it. Its causes are numerous. Por example, in nervous women it 
may arise from air swallowed, the muscular fibres of the gullet 
being relaxed ; or from excess of air being swallowed with the 
food. When the food is arrested, from any cause, in its progress 
out of the stomach to the bowels, fermentation takes place, and 
carbonic acid is formed and expelled ; if the food is detained very 
long it may even •decompose, and sulphuretted hydrogen is 
formed, which is easily recognised by its offensive smell. In 



64 FOOD. 

to add starch or sugar to the cocoa, and thus attenuate or thin, 
it down, in order to hide the presence of the oil. Bat these 
adulterations only increase the indigestihility of the cocoa, for 
besides the oil the stomach has uncooked starch- granules to 
digest. The preparation made by Cadbury — " Cadbury's 
Essence of Cocoa " — is to a great extent free from these faults 
for they have succeeded in extracting the cocoa butter, as it is 
called, from the cocoa, and then thei^ is no occasion for the 
addition of either starch or sugar. The cocoa is at the same 
time made more nourishing, as it contains more flesh-forming 
material and less heat-producing. The French chocolates, for 
the same reason as homoeopathic cocoas are indifi:estible, they con- 
tain even a larger proportion of starchy material. They are just 
cocoa with various kinds of -starch and suga*-, with perhaps 
some colouring matter. Cocoa nibs contain less starch than 
either the homoeopathic, French, or other advertised cocoaSi 
but more than Cadbury* s essence. 

The preparations of cocoa that are advertised are legion, 
and they are nothing more nor less than cocoa adulterated with 
diflferent things — as Iceland moss, arrowroot, potato-starch, 
sugar, and other farinaceous substances ; or they are prepared 
perhaps in a peculiar way. The colouring matter ranges from 
yellow-ochre to rose-pink. It is the starch they contain that 
causes them to get thick on adding boiling water 

Revalenta is just lentil flour, barley flour and salt; or 
pea flour, Indian corn-flour and salt ; and Dr. Hassell says that 
the last mixture does as well as any of those advertised. 

Soojie is a mixture of wheat flour and sugar 1 

Semolina is the gluten of wheat, with some of the starch, 
part being removed; in other words, flour with part of the 
starch removed. It may suit some who are troubled with 
acidity. 

Farina, — Some preparations consist of rice finely powdered ; 
some of wheat-flour baked and sweetened with sugar ; others 
that and coloured with rose-pink. 

Dyspeptics should, as a rule, avoid these, as they cause 
distention of the stomach and take away the appetite. 

Chicory belongs to the same natural family as the Dandelion, 
and has similar properties. It is obtained from the roots of the 
wild endive. It consists of a little glucose, fatty matter, 
gummy matter, and some bitter extractive ; but no essential oil 
or nutritive principle. In dyspepsia it is apt to cause pain, 



siaESTTBiLrrr of food. 65 

flatulence, and diarrhcBa. Coffee is frequently adulterated 
with it, and many prefer it bo, ^ut dyspeptics should avoid it, 
a8 it causes weight in the stomach and a sensation of heaviness, 
also an indisposition to exertion. 

ALCOHOL. 

Though properly speaking this is not a food, it is so 
commonly looked upon as such that a few words as to its action 
in the system, and its uses in dyspepsia, will not be out of place. 
Alcohol or spirit is the chief element in all spirituous drinks, and 
for the effects of which all are taken as beverages — brandy, 
whisky, gin, and rum ; wines — as port and sherry — may also be 
added. These are no more food than tea or coffee, if we except 
the small quantity of sugar and extractive matter the wines 
contain. Kum is more nearly allied to wine than the other ; 
gin, from the volatile oil it contains, stimulates the kidneys, 
and thus has a special action ; but that is not due to the alcohol. 

In considering the action of alcohol the quantity taken must 
be kept in view, for, like all other powerful remedies, it has 
different effects according as the dose is a small or a large one ; 
and also whether it is taken only as a medicine or used every day 
as a beverage. It has more effect, and is more useful, if only 
taken in prescribed doses and when really required. Spirit 
should always be taken well diluted, and never raw, for then it 
exercises direct irritant effects on the stomach, and if during 
digestion arrests it, decomposing the gastric juice and paralysing 
the stomach for a short time. In a raw condition it is injurious 
in every form of dyspepsia, and to every healthy stomach. Its 
action when taken diluted, say one ounce in four of water (and 
an ounce is a large dose physiologically speaking, it being two 
tablespoonfuls, or a small wineglassful), is in the first instance 
stimulating — first of the nervous system and then the heart. Dr. 
Parkes found when experimenting on a young healthy soldier ; — 

1st. That alcohol (in moderate doses) increased the fre- 
quency of the pulse, it rising from 63*6 to 70*35 during the 
days the experiments were carried on ; therefore spirit gave the 
heart more work to do. 

2nd. That the temperature was unaffected, or but little altered. 

3rd. That it did not appear to increase the power to bear 
fatigue ; that the soldier thought he was less tired after digging 
every day for a week when he took no stimulant than when he 
was taking the brandy. 

F 



66 



TOOD. 



4th. That the elimination of nitrogen was unaffected by 
brandy. 

5th. That a large proportion of the spirit taken appeared 
in the urine and breath unchanged. 

These experiments agree in the main with the opinions of 
most physiologists. Some think that alcohol diminishes the 
temperature. Arctic voyagers tell us that instead of adding to 
their warmth, it has an opposite effect, and makes them less able 
to resist cold. As for the elimination of nitrogen, Parkes found 
it unaffected. GeDcrally spirit is thought to diminish the 
excretion of that, and therefore to retard the wear and tear that • 
is going on. I believe the destruction of tissues in the ordinary 
functional and vital operations of the body is not so great as was 
at one time supposed, and that the waste that occurs is better 
eliminated. If alcohol is used for any length of time it tends to 
retain effete material in the blood, which is apt to give rise to / 
rheumatism from fermentative processes occurring. Alcohol may 
prevent the oxidation of the glycogen, and cause an unhealthy 
deposition of fat ; wines and beer act even more in that direction. 
Carpenter says spirit tends to fatty degeneration of tissue 
generally. I think it brings on consumption when for long 
taken in excess. 

Fermented Brinks — as wine, beer, stout, &c. — owe in great 
measure their efficacy to the alcohol they contain ; or rather 
they are taken more on account of the spiiit than of the other 
ingredients. The following is the amount of alcohol contained 
in 100 parts, taking the average : — 



Ale (Burton) 




• •• 


8-88 


Claret 


• •• 


• •^ 


9-10 


„ (Edin.)... 




• • • 


6-20 


,, Vin Ordinaire 


• • • 


8-99 


Small Beer 




• • • 


1-28 


Burgundy ... 


• • • 


• • • 




London Porter 




• •• 


4-20 


Hock 


• •• 


• • • 




Brown Stout 




• • • 


6-80 


Nesci 


• •• 


• • • 


18-0 


Port Wine ... 




• • t 


2296 


Tent 


'•• 


• • • 


120 


,, „ (weakest) 


• • • 


1497 


Champagfne 


• •• 


• • • 


11-0 


Sherry (strongest )... 


• • • 


19-0 


Gooseberry 


• • t 


• • • 


10-0 


,, (weakest) 


• • • 


• • • 


13-98 


Orange 


• •• 


• • • 


10-10 


Madeira 


• • • 


• • • 


16-90 


Tokay 


• •• 


• • • 


8.6 


„ Red 




• •1 


20-36 


Elder 


• • • 


§•• 


8-0 


Marsala 


• • • 


• • • 


20-40 


Cider 


• • 


• • • 


5-0 


Lisbon 


• • • 


• ••- 


1894 


Brandy 


• • • 


• •• 


53*39 


Malaga 


t ■ • 


• •• 


18-94 


Rum 


• •• 


■ 


60- 


Teneriffe ... 


• • • 


• • • 


19-79 


Gin ... 


• •• 


• • • 


86- 


Currant 


• •• 


* ■ fl 


20-0 


Whisky (Scotch) 


• • • 


• • • 


54-32 


Grape Wine 


• •• 


• •• 


18-11 


„ (Irish) 


• • • 


• •• 


63-90 



DIGESTIBILITY PP FOOD. 67 

Sir Kobert Christison says that wines, as sherry and Madeira 
in casks, increase the alcohol if kept for a moderate term of 
years, then it decreases. 

Ales, besides containing alcohol, contain sugar, gum, and 
bitter extractive matter from the hops. 

Liqueurs are spirits sweetened and flavoured with various, 
aromatics, as cloves, cinnamon, carraway, cherry, &c. 

Wines contain ether as well as alcohol, sugar, extractive 
matteri and tannic or tartaric acid. These are natural, but the 
adulterations are very numerous, indeed it is next to impossible 
to get genuine port or sherry ; they are mostly mixtures got up 
and sold under those names. 

Wines and ales are on a par with tea and coffse for nourishing 
properties. The popular opinion that they give strength is very 
erroneous. Looking at their chemical composition, they cannot 
add to the nourishment of tissue, as they contain only a trace of 
nitrogenous matter; the sugar goes to make fat, and it is 
doubtful if much of the spirit is burned in the body. In those 
who drink large quantities of beer or wine and get corpulent, 
it is not due to the direct nourishing properties of these, but to 
the fact that the hydro-carbons of the food are prevented from 
undergoing combustion as they should be ; and the tissues 
themselves are apt to undergo fatty degeneration. Again, 
corpulency and strength are not synonymous terms, and those 
who get stout from beer drinking are less able to bear up under 
acute attacks of disease. The sugar has much to do with the 
formation of fat, as a pint of beer or porter contains about 
seventy-six grains. Brewers get fat on beer, and children oh 
condensed milk; but both lack stamina, and are ill able to 
contend with disease. 

In most forms of dyspepsia, as has already been pointed 
out, both beer and wine are injurious, for the reason that they 
are very apt to ferment, causing flatulence and acidity, thereby 
increasing the pain and inconvenience already experienced. 
The heat of the stomach favours the acetous fermentation. The 
only form of indigestion where wine or diluted spirit is service- 
able is the nervous and atonic dyspepsias. In the former there 
is an over- sensitiveness of the nerves of the stomach ; and 
the alcohol acts locally as a narcotic, and deadens the sensibility 
of the stomach. But, unless the spirit be given in limited and 
small quantities, it will irritate instead of soothe. When spirit 
or beer is used as a beverage, thev should never be taken on an 

r 2 



68 TOOD. 

empty Btomach, but always with food ; less harm will thus be 
produced. The only exception to that is in atonic dyspepsia, 
where there is no irritation present ; and as dilute alcohol is 
known to stimulate the flow of gastric juice, it will often do 
good to give it just before meals. It must, however, be diluted, 
otherwise it will defeat the end in view, by throwing down the 
active principle — the pepsine — of any gastric juice that may be 
present in the stomach. 

Alcohol is well known to be a frequent cause of indigestion ; 
and it is equally well known to experience as well as to 
physiologists to be unnecessary when plenty of good food can be 
obtained, with a healthy stomach to digest it. When little 
food can be eaten, spirit may do good by slightly retarding the 
metamorphosis of tissue, on the principle that " What is saved 
is gained." In special circumstances, and wisely used, this is an 
advantage ; but, as shown above, it is a doubtful advantage, to 
say the least, in the presence of health and food. 

There are some who believe they can get through more 
work, especially brain- work, if they take with their dinner a 
small quantity of pure spirit — say, two tablespoonfuls of pure 
brandy or whisky in water ; that it keeps off indigestion and 
maintains their health. On the other hand, there are others 
who think that it incapacitates for work and makes them 
drowsy and dyspeptic. Both are right — one is the better for 
it, the other is worse. Alcohol does produce something 
bordering on drowsiness or dulling of the nerve centres, conser- 
vation of energy as it has been called, from its action as a nar- 
cotic. This forms one of its chief uses in overwrought or worried 
brains. But then it must be taken in small quantities, and with 
meals. It should never be taken in the forenoon by any one in 
health ; and with dinner a glass of beer, or a couple of glasses of 
claret, or a tablespoonful of whisky in water, is sufficient. In 
health, with a good digestion and plenty of air and exercise, 
alcohol in any form is never necestary. And in 'dyspeptics more 
than a wineglass of spirit, or two glasses of wine, or a pint 
of ale, in the twenty-four hours is apt to do harm. 

In Alexis St. Martin's stomach it was found after intoxi- 
cation that the mucous membrane was '* dark red in colour, with 
an arid mucous coat, abraded in spots and rolled in small 
shreds." It need not be wondered, then, if an attack of indi- 
gestion for two or three days was the result. 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 69 



FoodSj for the convenience of dyspeptics^ may be divided into 
four classes : — 

Ist. Foods easily digested. 
2nd. The moderately digestible. 
3rd. The difficult to digest. 
4th. The indigestible. 



•Class L — The Easily Digested, 

Or safe, — The varieties of food placed under this head may 
be safely used by all dyspeptics, and in most forms of dyspepsia, 
keeping out of view a few exceptional individuals who have 
peculiar idiosyncrasies which reverse all ordinary rules of 
dietetics. A ladder of diet under this class would begin with 
milk* Milk has already been considered, and is easy of 
digestion; equal parts of milk and lime or soda-water will 
prevent it from causing weight or uneasiness. It is more easily 
digested if drank before the cream is allowed to rise, as 
previous to that the particles of oil are more minutely divided. 
Of course no acid food or drink should be taken for some time 
after milk. Milk takes about two hours to digest. 

It is important not only that a thing should be easily 
digested, but that it should possess nourishing properties after 
it is digested ; the most easily digested thing is not always the 
most nourishing. In milk we have a food, not only easily 
digested, but nourishing. Beef-tea, mutton broth, and, indeed, 
most liquid food, are easily digested, for little digestion is 
required before they are absorbed by the veins, &c., of the 
stomach or duodenum. Where the mucous membrane of the 
stomach is inflamed, food like thick soup may disagree, for 
' the liquid part gets absorbed, leaving the solid on a stomach 
which does not afford gastric juice enough to digest it This is 
frequently the case in fevers, therefore only the most fluid forms 
of food should be allowed in such cases. Milk and rice, or sago, 
or tapioca require no longer time to digest than milk alone. 
But ^e following table of Dr. Beaumont's will show how long 
different articles of diet will take to digest. 



70 



POOD. 



De. Beaumont's Table. 





V 




Mean Time of Cliynufication. 


Articles of I/ikt. 














Preparation. 


H. M. 


xvice • * « • • • 


• «• 


• ■ • 


boiled 


1 


Pigs* feet, soused 


• • • 


• ■ • 


boiled 


1 


Tripe, soused ... 


• • • 


• •• 


boiled 


1 


Eggs, whipped 


• •• 


• •• 


raw 


1 30 


Trout, salmon, fresh 


• • • 


• • • 


boiled 


1 30 


»» »> >» 


• • • 


• •• 


fried 


1 30 


Soup, barley 


• •» 


• •• 


boiled 


1 30 


Apples, sweet, mellcn 


r ... 


• • t 


raw 


1 30 


Yenison steak ... 


• • • 


• •• 


broiled 


1 35 


Brains, animal ... 


• • • 


■ • • 


boiled 


1 45 


Sago 


• B • 


• • • 


boiled 


1 45 


Tapioca 


• • • 


• • • 


boiled 


2 


Barley ... ... 


• • • 


• •• 


boiled 


2 


Milk 


• • • 


• • • 


boiled 


2 


Liver, beefs, fresh 


• • ■ 


• • • 


broiled 


2 


Eggs, fresh 


■ • • 


• •• 


raw 


2 


Codfish, cured, dry 


• • • 


• • • 


boiled 


2 


Apples, sour, mellow 


• •• 


• • t 


raw 


2 


. Cabbage, with vinegar 


• • • 


raw 


2 


Milk 


• • • 


• •• 


raw 


2 15 


Eggs, fresh 


• • • 


• • • 


roasted- 


2 15 


Turkey, wild ... 


• • • 


• • 


roasted 


2 18 


„ domestic] 


• • • 


• • • 


boiled 


2 26 


Gelatine 


• • • 


• • • 


boiled 


2 30 


Turkey, domestic 


B • • 


• • • 


roasted 


2 80 


■ Goose, wild 


• •• 


• • • 


roasted 


2 30 


Fig, sucking 


• •• 


• • • 


roasted 


2 30 


Lamb, fresh 


• • • 


• •• 


broiled 


2 30 


Hash, meat and vegetables 


• • • 


warmed 


2 80 


Beans, pod 




• •• 


boiled 


2 30 


Cake, sponge 




• •• 


baked 


2 30 


Parsnips 




• •• 


boiled 


2 80 


Potatoes, Irish ... 




• •• 


roasted 


2 30 


»» >» ••• 




• •• 


baked 


2 30 


Cabbage head ... 




• • • 


raw 


2 30 


Spinal marrow, animal 


. ** * 


boiled 


2 40 


Chicken, full-grown 




• •• 


fricasseed 


2 45 


Custard ... ... 




• •• 


baked 


2 45 


Beef, with salt only 




• • • 


boiled 


2 45 


Apples, sour, hard 




• • • 


raw 


2 50 


Oysters, fresh ... 




• • • 


raw 


2 65 


Eggs, fresh 




• • • 


soft boiled 


3 


Bass, striped, fresh 




• •• 


broiled 


3 



DIGEEIEBILITr OB TOOS, 





Mean Time of Chymlfioatlim. 










P^pBrstion. 


n. M, 


Beef, fresh, lean, «re 


roaated 


8 


Betfateak 


broiled 


3 


Forl£,tecenUr salted 




3 




Btewed 


S 


Mutton, frash .'.. Z "'. 


broiled 
boUed 


3 


Soup, beao 


boiled 


3 


ChickODSDup 


boiled 


3 




boDed 


3 


Dumplmg, appie 


boiled 


3 


Oaks, Corn 


baked 


3 


Oyetera, fresh 


roasted 


3 tS 


Potk, recBLtly Baited 


broiled 


3 IS 


Pork aleak 


broiled 


3 Ij 


Mntton, fresh 


roasted 


3 IS 


Bread, com 


baked 


8 IS 


Carrot, orange 


boiled 


3 IS 


Sausage, freah 


broiled 


3 20 


Flounder, fresh 


Jried 


3 30 


CaLfiah, froah 


M9d 


3 30 


OjHtera, freah 


■tewed 


B 30 


Baef, freah, leao, dry 


loaated 


3 SO 


Beef, with amatard, &q. 


boiled 


t SO 


Butter 


melted 


S 30 


Cheeea, old, Btrong 




3 ao 


Soup, mutton 


boiled 


S 30 


Ojatersoup 


boiled 


B 30 


Bread, wheat, treah 


baked 


3 30 


Turnips, flat 


bailed 


8 30 


Polatoea, Irish 


boiled 


8 30 


EggB, freah 


hard boiled 


3 SO 


EggB, fresh 


Med 


S 3D 


Oteen com and beana 


boiled 


3 45 


Beeta 


boiled 


S 45 


Salmon, salted 


boiled 


i 


Beet 


fried 


4 


Veal, fresh 


broiled 


4 


Fowla, domOBtio 


boUed 


1 




roasted 


4 


D^lk„ ,'■ 


rosBled 


i 




boiled 


4 


He,it, animal 


fried 


4 


Beef, old. bard. Baited 


boiled 


4 IS 


Pork, reoently Bultfld 


fried 


4 IS 


Boup.ma.TOW.bone 


boUed 


4 16 



72 



FOOD. 



Abticlbs of Dixt. 


• 

Mean Time of Chymificatiozi. 


Preparatioii. 


H. M. 


Cartilage 

Pork, recently salted 

Veal, fresh 

Ducks, wild 

Suet, mutton 

Pork, fat and lean 

Tendon 

Suet, beef, fresh 

Cabbage 


boiled 

boiled 

fried 

roasted 

boiled 

roasted 

boiled 

boiled 

boiled 


4 15 
4 30 
4 30 
4 30 

4 80 

5 16 

5 30 

6 30 
4 30 



Experience has mostly verified the results given in this 
table, but a few of the thmgs require altering by the dyspeptic. 
Thus venison, though put down at 1 h. 35 m., will be found too 
rich and stimulating for weak stomachs, and will require to be 
placed in the 2nd or even the 3rd Class of Foods. So pork, 
which in St. Martin's stomach only took three hours to digest, 
will prove quite indigestible to all dyspeptics ; though those 
who live in the country, with plenty of fresh air and exercise, 
will digest pork much better than dwellers in town. 

Under the Ist Class may be placed all farinaceous diet, as 
bread and milk, milk puddings, and milk itself. Eggs, tripe, 
white fish, especially whiting and sole, plaice and salmon- 
trout, as they are devoid of oil or fat. The lean of a mutton- 
chop and underdone roast beef may usually be tolerated by 
weak stomachs. Also raw oysters ; jellies, baked custard ; 
chicken broth with some of the chicken grated down (as the 
chicken is of a close fibre). The breast of turkey roasted, 
and boiled partridge are admissible. Also Extract of Meat, 
grapes, ripe oranges (unripe gripe), the pips being rejected.-*^ 

Biscuits, toasted bread, aerated bread, and stale bread — ^not 
new or home-madls bread — are suitable. 

DsiNxs. — Barley soup, toast and water, cocoa without 
starch, and plenty of milk, beef-tea, mutton broth, with the fat 
all skimmed off, and veal broth may be taken ; also lemonade, 
ginger-beer, or soda* water. 

All the above are easily digested, though much will depend 
on the cooking, or preparing, for if badly cookedi or cooked 



DIGESTIBILITT OF FOOD. 78 

twice, they may be made indigestible, and therefore would be 
placed under the 2nd or drd Glass of Foods. 

If time in digesting were alone taken into account in 
classifying articles of diet for dyspeptics, many vegetable sub- 
stances would be added to the above list, as salads, potatoes, 
hash meat and vegetables, apple dumplings, &c., for these are 
chymified in as short a time as boiled mutton ; but vegetables 
are so apt to set up fermentation, that they niust be placed in 
the 3rd Glass. 



Glass II.^Foods Modebately Digestible. 

These take &om two to three hours to digest. Boiled 
eggs — boiled enough just to coagulate the white. Mutton, 
roast and boiled ; and mutton-chops. Beef, roast and under- 
done ; and tender beef-steak. Beef is more difficult to digest 
than mutton, its fibres being more infiltrated with fat. 
Ghicken ; wild rabbit ; sweetbread ; pigeon. Oysters cooked, 
and oyster soup ; turtle fins ; cod and turbot. Mealy potatoes ; 
cabbage with vinegar; cream and butter; sugar. Grouse, 
blackcock, and venison, these to some stomachs will be found 
rather stimulating. Turtle if young and plainly cooked. Milk 
aud yolk of eggs, though these may lie heavily because of the 
fat they contain. Farinaceous preparations, as farina, semolina, 
Boojie, revalenta, Indian com- bread, &c., as being so largely 
advertised as suitable for the dyspeptic, should be all placed 
in this 2nd Glass. Bacon — the fat of bacon is easily digested ; 
so is cod-liver oil. Other fats should be placed uoder the drd 
Glass. Game is easier to digest than poultry or meat. Goffee 
and weak tea, with plenty of milk, should be placed in this 
Glass. 

Glass III, — Foods Difficult to Digest. 

These take from three and a half to four and a quarter hours. 
They are mostly unsuited for dyspeptics, and if taken should be 
taken with caution, at once leaving them off if pain or other 
inconvenience be caused. This is a *' dangerous " Glass, to say 
the least, and under it are included : liver and kidney ; fritd 
beef, or cold roast heef stewed; boiled salt beef; fowl boiled or 
roasted ; roasted duck or wild duck ; lamb and sucking pig ; 



74 



jrooD. 



Boup from beef, with vegetables and bread ; bash meat and 
vegetable. Salmon, belnings, pilchards, and sprats — these 
abound in oil and are stimulating, causing thirst and an uneasy 
feeling in the stomach. Pheasant and partridge (being rich 
and stimulating) ; duck and also goose, their flesh being per- 
meated with fat. Eggs and bacon — the fat of salt pork and 
bacon is less injurious than fresh animals' fat— omelets ; jams. 
These latter irritate^ therefore they may be useful in con- 
stipation. 

Fancy bread, rolls, home-made bread, cakes, hot-buttered 
toast, pastry, suet and yeast pudding and pancake, muffins 
and crumpets. 

Preserved meats, as sardines ; tongues ; salmon ; and 
mackerel. 

In this Class may be placed vegetables, as boiled carrots, 
turnips, parsnips, beans and peas, new potatoes (on account of 
being so waxy). Cucumbers, anchovies, celery, onions, garlick 
and leeks, &c. Some of these relatively may not be difficult to 
digest, but on account of the tendency spoken of to disagree in 
dyspeptics, they should be regarded as dangerous, and some of 
them even poisonous, to certain stomachs. The same may be said 
of fermented liquors — beer, ale, stout, and porter, also most 
wines, the light wines, as claret and burgundy, excepted. Strong 
tea, acd perhaps coffee, should also be placed here ; also pickles 
and condiments, unless aromatics are required, then they should 
be used with caution. Almonds, nuts, and all substances inti- 
mately incorporated with oily matter, or things hard and difficult 
of penetration by gastric juice, unless they are previously 
powdered in a mortar ; therefore, only a limited quantity of 
cheese can be digested, especially if roasted. Cheese is very 
nitrogenous, and, therefore, very nourishing when digested. 
Shrimps, prawns, cockles, whelks ; shell-fish, as crabs, lobsters, 
mussels, and periwinkles, especially if these are moulting ; 
entrees and other dishes seasoned with spices, are all difficult 
to digest. 



Class IV. — Indigestible. 

The following are very difficult to digest, and should always 
be avoided by those who have weak digestive organs ; and by 



DIGESTIBILITY OF FOOD. 



75 



those who are strong they should be sparingly used, unless 
they have ostrich-like stomachs: — 



Yeal and ham pie. 

Pork. 

Veal. 

Beefsteak pie. 

ISausages. 

Salt beef. 

Cheese. 

"Puff "pastry. 

Hashes and stews. 

Melted butter. 

Red herrings. 

Eels. 

Fried dishes. 

Boe and milt. 



Hard-boiled eggs. 
Lobsters. 
Badishes. 
Nuts. 

Dumplings. 
Husks of fruit. 
Binds ,, 

Baw spirits. 
Unripe fruit. 

New bread. 
,, potatoes. 

Shell-fish. 

Cun*ants. 

Strong tea. 



All tough substances, vegetable or animal. 

The most of the above take from four hours to five and a 
half hours to digest. 



INFANT FEEDING. 

LrPAVTs and children nnder two years old suffer as much 
as adnlts from indigestion, though the yarieties are not so 
numerous, nor the symptoms so yaried, hut in many cases the 
results are more serious. The only cause of indigestion is 
oyerfeeding, or improper feeding, allowance heing made for 
constitutional dehility, which predisposes to, or even hrings 
ahout, that disorder, irrespective of the diet. In such cases the 
food may he good, and wisely given, hut the power of digestion 
and assunilation are impaired to such a degree as to cause 
wasting and death. It requires the utmost medical skill to cope 
with such a state of things, and improper feeding destroys the 
only chance of life. However weak a child may he from hirth, 
the good effect of proper feeding is marvellous. On the other 
hand, the slightest inherited wetness is soon intensified hy had 
feeding, and consumption of the howels, or disease of the 
mesenteric glands (evidenced hy the large and hard helly), are 
the result. But indigestion, though it often leads to disease of 
the howels in young children, is quite distinct from that, and 
much more easily managed. The child is horn healthy and 
strong, and thrives well for a longer or shorter time, till some 
friend or old nurse, or, perhaps, the mother herself, thinks of 
doing something more for her infant. If there is one thing more 
than another which should he impressed on all mothers and 
nurses it is this, "leave well alone." When children are 
thriving well on the breast alone, why should they not be 
allowed to continue so doing ? But no, something else must be 
done — some food must he given ; some corn-flour added to the 
milk ; some patent food tried ; some indigestible biscuit used ; 
some home-made sop inflicted, and so poor baby's stomach must 
suffer. Fortunately for the child it is often strong enough to 
be none the worse for the cruel kindness, and thrives in apiU 
of it, though mothers mostly say in consequence of it when they 
do thrive, but none dream of attributing its death to it when 
the child happens to die. More children die from overfeeding 
than underfeeding ; and if to overfeeding I add improper food, 



IKFAKT FBEDIKG. 77 

I do not exaggerate when I say more than half of all the 
children who die under eighteen months die from that cause. 
AU who are entrusted with the upbringing of children will at 
once see the importance of ^* infant feeding." 

When possible, the infant, if at all sickly or delicate, should 
be brought up entirely on the breast, for much difficulty as to 
feeding is thereby avoided. When the mother is too delicate or 
unwilling to nurse her child, or if her milk be deficient in 
quantity or goodness, milk from other sources should alone be 
given. This should be continued till the child is seven or eight 
months old. Here let me observe that ** milks mixed " — that is, 
partly mother's milk and partly cow*s milk — are not injurious; 
and, practically, milk, if good, though it comes from different 
cows, is just as good as milk " from one cow only.*' Indeed, 
nursery milk from ** one cow " is often a delusion, and the only 
difference (I speak of London) between nursery milk and 
ordinary milk is the price. The great thing is to get milk 
as it comes from the cow, and not watered or otherwise 
adulterated. 

When the child has reached the age of eight or nine months, 
some farinaceous food should be added to the diet, such as sop, 
baked flour, or com-ffour. After nine or ten months the mother's 
milk is very weak and worthless, and the habit among the poor 
of suckling their children beyond that time is injurious both to 
mother and child. When a child is thriving, "feeding" (food 
other than milk) should never be commenced till the age 
mentioned. But when it is not thriving what is to be done ? 

Inquiry should be made as to the cause. 1st. Whether 
the milk of the mother is deficient in quantity, or inferior 
in quality ; 2nd. Whether the child, from being overfed, 
is suffering from indigestion, with frequent sickness, irregular 
action of the bowels — the motions being green, slimy, curdy, 
or offensive. When ^reen they are occasioned by a weak 
condition of. the mucous lining of the stomach and bowels, 
the liver also being at fault. When slimi/ it is due to a 
catarrhal state of the alimentary tract, and in both kinds 
to an imperfect elaboration of milk. The ottrdi/ stool is 
due to imperfect digestion of the casein of the milk, either 
from the superabundance given, or more often to an irritable 
state of the bowels from over acidity or other cause, time not 
being allowed for the digestion of the milk. The offensive stool 
is due to two causes : decomposition of the food, and deficiency 



78 FOOD. 

of bile, which is an excellent antiseptic. A depraved condition 
of the mucous membrane favours it. 

If any of these kinds of stools, or modifications of them, are 
present, the child is suffering from indigestion. Being in pain, 
it cries frequently; its cry being frequently of a whining 
character. The child is restless and fidgety, stretching its legs 
and rolling about, and again crying The mother, either to 
keep it quiet, or thinking it is crying for food, gives it the 
breast, which succeeds for a time in quieting it. Soon after it 
begins to cry again ; again it gets the breast, or is fed. It 
becomes sick and throws up curdled milk ; it is again fed ; cries 
and is sick ; and this goes on for days or weeks, the sickness 
alternating with diarrhoea. The latter soon exhausts the child's 
strength ; it wastes, pines away, and, unless speedy and skilful 
treatment intervene, dies. This is an everyday experience 
with those who have much to do with children. Not does the 
impure atmosphere and overcrowding of our large towns in any 
way ameliorate the case. It will be observed that feeding is 
the cause of all the above symptoms ; the persistent and foolish 
overloading of a stomach inflamed and irritable, and which 
Nature tries to relieve by vomiting, or by a simple diaiThoea. 
In such cases, if the breast were withheld for a few hours, and 
a spoonful of toast and water given instead, the stomach would 
recover itself, and the milk would be digested as usual. The 
mistake that some nurses and mothers make, that vomiting the 
milk is a healthy sign, is a very grave one, and the sooner it is 
known the better, that vomiting is no more a healthy symptom 
in a child than it is in an adult. It is fortunate for the child 
that it is sick, but beyond that the sickness is just Nature 
relieving itself of the superabundance of milk that has been 
given. And it is wonderful the power some children have of 
recovering themselves by the simple method of vomiting ; other- 
wise the more serious symptom of diarrhoea would supervene. 
More than a limited amount of milk cannot be digested by the 
child any more than a limited quantity of food can by the 
adult. Nor can the stomach of the infant be always digesting, 
though in this respect it is more active than the adult. A new- 
born baby should never be fed oftener than once in two hours 
during the day, and in three or four during the night, gradually 
lengthening the interval to three or four during the day, and five 
or six in the night, as the child gets older. Should it cry 
between times, other means of quieting it than feeding should 



INFANT FEEDING. 



79 



be adopted. The child will generally leave off when it has 
enough of the breast, and if it cries an hour after, it is not 
because it is hungry, but because it is in pain from ** wind*' 
usually. Too rmich food is even worse than too little^ and giving 
too much is equal to giving too little, as far as nourishing the 
child is concerned, for in such a case a little even may not be 
digested. 

When the mother's milk requires to be supplemented, 
animal's milk should be given alone, if a wet nurse cannot be 
kept. When an infant is brought up entirely by the hand, 
more care is required to substitute a suitable form of food, at 
once nourishing and digestible. The best food is undoubtedly 
milk, and that from the ass or the cow is the best. The asses', 
as will be seen from tho following table, most closely resembles 
woman's milk : — 

Asses'. Woman's. Cow's. Gtoat's. Ewe's. 

Casein 1-82 1-62 4-48 4 02 4*60 

Butter 211 3 55 3-18 * 3 32 4 20 

Sugar of milk 6*08 6-50 477 5*28 5*0 

Different salts 34 0.45 0*60 58 0*68 



Total solids 9*35 12 02 12-98 12*20 14-38 

Water 90-65 87*98 87-02 86-80 85-62 



100-00 10000 100-0) 100-00 100-00 



The casein in woman's and asses' milk is nearly the same ; 
but the butter is in smaller proportion in the asses*, on that 
account it is more easily digested by some children. It also 
contains more water. On the other hand, cow's milk contains 
the same amount of butter as woman's milk, but too much 
casein, and too little sugar. In order, therefore, to bring it 
nearer to the mother's milk, that fresh from the cow must have 
water and sugar added to it — two parts of milk and one of 
water slightly sweetened. The quantity given at one time 
should not be less than four and not more than ten tablespoonfuls, 
or from two to three pints in the twenty-four hours. The water 
added to the milk should be sufficiently hot to raise the tem- 
perature to about 95*^ F., a temperature a little lower than the 
blood. It is thought by some that much mischief is done to 
delicate babies by giving milk at diffeient temperatures ; some- 
times hotter than 95^ E., and sometimes much colder, and it has 



80 FOOD. 

been recommended to give the milk alwaya eold, rather than at 
each different temperatures. In hot weather, especially if the 
child is inclined to diarrhoea, the milk cooled (by adding a piece 
of ice) will be beneficial. When a child is not thriving, more 
than ordinary care should be taken in the matter of heating the 
milk. 

Goat's milk often answers very well, and should be tried if 
the others disagree, a little water and sugar being added. 
Ewe's milk is too rich for infants, and cannot be digested by 
them. . 

We frequently find that cow's milk, with water, cannot be 
digested, but is brought up curdled. In that case equal parts 
of milk and lime-water, with a lump of loaf sugar, should be 
tried, or one part of milk (less if a young infant), two parts of 
water, a piece of sugar, and a teaspoonful of cream in each 
bottleful. It is the casein that curdles, and if that is reduced, 
and the milk made richer with cream, it oftens answers well. 
Or if these fail, a teaspoonful of baked flour added to a feeding 
bottle full of the ordinary milk and water, and well boiled with 
it, will break up the casein, and so make the milk more 
digestible. When the occasion for the above has passed away, 
it will be well to go back to the ordinary mixture of milk and 
water. 

When milk contains too large a quantity of nutritious 
matter it is apt to cause vomiting and diarrhoea, for that which 
is not digested only irritates. Hence the mischief that often 
arises from feeding infants with some of the various advertised 
preparations, given in addition to milk. Husks, tops and 
bottoms, and biscuits of all kinds, are abominations, and do more 
than anything else I know of to produce diarrhoea and indigestion. 
There are none of the preparations that ha ve yet been made, neither 
Liebig's food nor Kidge's food, nor any other, that can take the 
place of milk. Chemically they may be as nearly allied as 
possible to milk. Yet general experience proves that the 
efiects on infants are very different ; that may be on account of 
their more difficult digestibility. But milk is, like natural 
mineral waters, inimitable by art. There is something in the 
natural products that cannot be imitated exactly. 

Of the different foods, perhaps Liebig's is the best. It is 
composed of milk, wheaten flour, malt and bicarbonate of 
potash ; the malt is for converting the starch of the flour into 
sugar, and the potash to neutralise any acidity. Most of the 



INFANT FEEDING. 81 

other farinaceous foods are little else than baked flour, or potato 
flour, sweetened and coloured ; and baked flour answers as well 
as any of the advertised foods for infants. The intense heat in 
baking makes the starch more soluble, and more easily digested. 
However, if farinaceous preparations are added to milk and 
given to young infants, the proportions of plastic and carbonaceous 
elements are altered, and so ^gestion is disturbed. After a cer- 
tain age, say nine months, the digestive organs get stronger, and 
can then digest different foods better. This is also the case with 
very robust children ; here it should be remembered that they 
are rohiist in spite of, and not became of the food added to the 
suckling. Well-boiled sop made from ordinary baker's bread 
answers as well as most things, and should always be given 
after the child has been weaned.* When the child is a year 
old, it may have thin slices of bread and butter, or bread and 
gravy, or perhaps a small piece of baked potato with gravy, 
and milk messes generally. 

Condensed milk is bad when given exclusively to children. 
Those who are brought up on that usually look flne, fat, plump 
children, from the large amount of sugar the milk contains ; but 
my experience is that they have no staminay and are soon cut 
down by a slight illness. Therefore, young children should 
never be fed entirely on condensed milk ; though children over 
the age of nine months may have the Swiss milk given to them 
with other food. 

When diarrhoea in infants sets in from improper feeding, 
even milk may be vomited, or be passed as curd and increase 
the diarrhoea. In such a case, even with lime-water, cow's 
milk may be injurious, and will have to be discontinued. So 
with asses' and mother's milk. In such a case milk for a day or 
two should be left off entirely, and a little gruel or toast and 
water given, and perhaps a little beef^tea, or cream, but, better 
still, raw beef prepared thus : Take half a pound of lean tender 
beef, chop it finely up, add an ounce of water and beat it up in 
a mortar, then strain through muslin : add a little salt to the 
fluid part and give frequently in teaspoonfuls. The most 
irritable stomach will retain this, with a little management, 
which is very nourishing, and tends to check the diarrhoea. 
The eau alhuminose of the French is an excellent drink along 
with the raw beef. To prepare this drink, the whites of two 

* Nestte'fl milk food will be found a usefal preparation. 



82 FOOD. 

eggs are to be well shaken up in a bottle containing abont a 
pint of cold water. A little of this may be given frequently to 
quench the thirst. By that treatment I have often saved children 
when dying, and when milk or milk food would have killed 
them. When they recover I find they generally dislike the 
raw beef which they took greedily when so ill, but I continue 
it till they refase to take it. By that time they can usually 
digest milk, the breast or asses', if not cow's. To that they 
should be strictly confined till they get quite strong. 

Before concluding I need scarcely add that milk should be per- 
fectly fresh, and should be obtained from the cow at least twice 
a day ; it should be kept in a cool place, and two feeding 
bottles be in use, the empty one being kept in cold water with 
a little baking soda. Where the child is taking the breast, and 
only requiring cow's milk once or twice a day, it is better not 
to use a battle, but to give the miik by a spoon, for more care 
is used, especially by nurses. Allowing the baby to go to sleep 
with the tube in its mouth, or letting it suck half the night, is 
very reprehensive, and may ruin a child's digestive organs. 
During the night as during the day regularity should be 
insisted on. Not only will that be better for the child, but, 
before long, it will give less trouble to the nurse. 



FINIS. 



APPENDIX. 



APPENDIX. 



DAILY DIETARY. 



LOW DIET. 

BredkfoBt ; 3 or 4 oz. of bread (toast) with or without fresh 
butter ; \ pint of milk. 

Dinner : 1 pint of beef-tea, with J lb. of bread or rice 
pudding. 

Tea : 1 pint cocoa and milk, or weak tea and milk ; 4 to 6 
oz. toast or biscuit. 

Stepper : ^ pint of rice milk. 

MIDDLE DIET. 

Breakfast : 1 pint milk, or cocoa and milk ; 6 oz. stale bread 
and ^ oz. butter. 

Dinner : 1 pint beef-tea ; 4 oz. of beef or mutton, or ^ lb. 
fresh fish, ^ lb. potatoes, or rice pudding. 

Tea and Supper : Same as Low Diet, with oatmeal gruel for 
supper. 

FULL DIET. 

Breakfast : 1 pint of coffee and milk, or cocoa and milk ; 
8 oz. fish, or a softly-boiled egg. 

Dinner : ^ lb. meat (mutton or beef), f lb. potatoes, or rice 
pudding ; a small custard, or other light milk pudding. 

Tea : 1 pint weak tea and milk ; 6 oz. bread and butter, or 
toast. 

Supper : Some simple milk mess, or a little tripe plainly- 
cooked. 



86 DAILY DIETABT. 

MILK DIET. 

A pure milk diet should consist of 12 oz. of bread, 2 pints 
of new milk ; or, 1 pint of milk, with rice, sago, tapioca, or 
arrowroot boiled, or made into light pudding ; 1 oz. of fresh 
butter ; gruel and barley water as required ; beef-tea or mutton- 
broth when necessary. 



DIET FOR CHILDEEN. 

The following recipes for making ** Flour Ball" and ** Rice 
"Water *' may be found useful for young children if they are not 
thriving on the ordinary milk diet. They will answer better 
than most of the advertised foods for infants, and they have the 
advantage of being cheaper. 

BOILED FLOUR OR FLOUR BALL. 

Take one quart of good flour ; tie it up in a pudding bag so 
tightly as to make a Arm, solid mass ; put it into a pot of 
boiling water early in the morning, and let it boil until bedtime. 
Then take it out and let it dry. In the morning peal off from 
the surface and throw away the thiU rind of dough, and, with a 
nutmeg-grater, grate down the hard dry mass into a powder. 
Of this from one to three teaspoonfuls may be used, by first 
rubbing it into a paste with a little milk, then adding it to 
about a pint of milk, and, finally, by bringing the whole to 
just the boiling-point. It must be given through a nursing 
bottle. 

An excellent food for children who are costive may be made 
by using bran-meal or unbolted flour instead of the white flour, 
preparing it as above directed. 

RICE WATER. 

Wash four tablespoonfuls of rice ; put it into two quarts of 
water, which boil down to one quart, and then add sugar and a 
little nutmeg. This makes a pleasant drink. 

A pint or half a pint of mHk added to the rice water, before 
it is taken from the fire, gives a nourishing food suitable for 
cases of diarrhoea. 

Sago, tapioca, barley, or cracked com can be prepared in the 
same manner. 



88 DIET FOB CHILDEEN. 

ARTIFICIAL ASSES' AND GOATS' MILK (Tanner). 

Take half an ounce (one tablespoonfdl) of gelatine, and dis- 
solve it in half-a-pint of hot barley-water. Then add an 
ounce of refined sugar, and pour into the mixture a pint of good 
new cow's milk. 

Chop an ounce of suet very fine, tie it lightly in a muslin 
bag, and boil it slowly in a quart of new nulk, sweeten with 
white sugar. 

TAPIOCA AND COD-LIYER OIL (Alexis Soyer). 

Boil a quarter of a pound of tapioca till tender in two 
quarts of water ; drain it in a cullender, then put it back in the 
pan ; season with a little salt and pepper, add half-a-pint of 
milk, and put over one pound of fresh cod liver cut in eight 
pieces. Set the pan near the fire to simmer slowly for half-an- 
hour, or a little more, till the liver is quite cooked. Press on it 
with a spoon, so as to get as much oil into the tapioca as possible. 
After taking away the liver mix the tapioca. If too thick, add 
a little milk, then boil it a few minutes ; stir round, add a little 
salt and pepper, and serve. The above is very useful and nourishing 
in delicate children^ especially with large stomachs. It is easily 
digested, 

LIME-WATER. 

Take a handful of quicklime, slake it, and put it into a quart 
bottle full of eoft water. Shake the bottle well, and then allow 
the undissolved portion of the lime to settle. Pour off the clear 
liquid when needed, replacing it with more water, and after- 
wards shaking the bottle briskly. 



Rankbn ft Co., Printen, Drury House, St Mary-le-Strand, W.C. 



^^y 



*«■:,*•''.;? 






U* '^■'' «'■ < 



■J:. J 



V' 



