^0' 



^O^ V 



^^ 



-^S- .v\^ 



XV^ "^. 



'/- <^ 






'^>- >^^ 





\^' 




V " 




■y 




,v^'^^ 



o5 -r.. 








^^^ V 




vO o. 









w*- 



* aV </* .'-1 "^ ' aV tP 

* aV ^ . V "^ ,\V ■/■ 






o 






C,'^ <<, ,; " a\-^ -J-.r. -■ ^ <>. 






'•J' * 
^^" A 


A^" 











% 



a\ r. N f; , -/■- ' » « ^ -V (lit "<, 



HOME COMFORTS; 



OR, 



Things Worth Knowing in Every Household,- 



BEING A DIGEST OP FACTS ESTABLISHED BY 



Science, Observation and Practical Experience, 



BESPECTINO THK IMl'ORTANT 



ART OF LIYING WELL AND CHEAPLY, 



PRESERYIiNG HEALTH AND PROLOiNGLNG LIFE. 



J ^ >■ EDITKD BY 

EDWIN T. FREEDLEY, 

AS A COMPANION VOLUME TO HIS "COMMON SENSE IN BUSINESS.' 



Ji 



S. A. GEORGE & CO., 
15 North Seventh St., PHiLADELririA. 



9- 









Copyright, 1878, by Edwin T. Freedley, in the United States and in 
France ; also entered at Stationers' Hall, London, England. 




TO 

EVERY YOUNG WOMAN 



WHO ASPIRES TO BE 



A GOOD WIFE AND CDOD HOUSEKEEPER, 

AND WHO BELIEVES THAT 

TRDE WISDOM CONSISTS IN KNOWING WHAT IS BEST WORTH KNOWING, 

THIS BOOK IS INSCRIBED, 

IN THE HOPE AND 6EUEF THAT IT CONTAINS FOR HEK WORDS FITLY SPOKKN, WHICH 
SOLOMON COMPARED TO 

"Aj}ples of gold in pictures of silver," 




/ A' 



PREFACE. 



fHE title of this book is so comprehensive, that an 
explanatory preface must be superfluous. It may, 
, however, be stated that, inasmuch as the success or 
failure of men in business is often so intimately dependent 
upon the influences that surround them in their homes, the 
editor's work, entitled " Common Sense in Business," 
seemed incomplete without a companion volume on the 
Art of Living comfortably, yet economically. Moreover, 
so many books have been written on Domestic Economy and 
Hygiene — most of them containing very few grains of 
wheat to the bushel of chaff — that there is apparently an 
urgent need for a Digest of what may be called well-estab- 
lished facts in Housekeeping. This volume contains hun- 
dreds of such facts, each one of which, if worth anything 
at all to the reader, will be worth much more than the cost 
of the book. 

The greatest part of every work of this kind, as Dr. 
Johnson observed even in his day, is made by transcription, 
and any attempt at originality, except in arrangement, is a 

5 



6 PREFACE. 

fault. The editor has accomplished all that he pro- 
posed, if he has succeeded in selecting from "the crude 
and undigested mass of suggestions " those which are true 
and reliable, distinguishing between assertions and facts; 
and if he has done this, those on the threshold of life, who 
use this book aright, will have at their command an 
amount of practical knowledge, every day useful, which 
most persons in a lifetime of experience do not acquire. 

Among the works partially digested, or extracted from, 
in this volume, are Beecher and Stowe's " Domestic Sci- 
ence;" Bellows' "Philosophy of Eating;" Beeton's 
" Englishwoman's Cookery Book ; " Prof. Blot's " Lec- 
tures on Cookery ; " Chase's " Recipes ; " Dr. Chavasse's 
"Advice to Wives and Mothers;" Dr. Delamere's 
"Wholesome Fare;" Devoe's "Market Assistant;" 
Dwyer's " Economic Cottage Builder ; " Eastlake's " Hints 
on Household Taste ; " Freedley's " Opportunities for In- 
dustry;" "The Gas Consumer's Guide;" Harland's 
" Common Sense in the Household ; " Dr. Hall's " Health 
by Good Living;" Dr. Hufeland's "Art of Prolonging 
Life ; " liyman's " Philosophy of Housekeeping ; " Eus- 
kin's " Lectures on Art ; " Savarin's " Physiology of 
Taste ; " Dr. Strange's " Restoration of Health ; " " Scien- 
tific American ; " Soyer's " Culinary Campaign ; " Mrs. 
Warren's " Home Management j " and numerous works on 
Cookery and Hygiene. 




CHAPTER I. 

ELEMENTS OF COMFORT. 

The most interesting of studies — Where corafort is worshipped as a 
deity — Meaning of house-thrift — The rich as well as the very 
poor often have no homes — Why few have comfortable homes — 
An English manufacturer's remark — Soyer's remarkable calcula- 
tion — Ignorance of good cookery — Men as cooks — The health of 
cooks carefully guarded — Dr. Johnson's plan of making a cook- 
book — The French as cooks — McCullough's observation — A good 
wife a fountain of comfort — How to promote health of women — 
Walking in the open air recommended — Care in ventilating 
chambers — Importance of thorough ablution — Meagre breakfasts 
condemned — Importance of sleep — A surprising statement as to 
the drinking habits of young ladies — Value of cook-books to house- 
keepers — American women excel in fancy cooking — How to cul- 
tivate cheerfulness — How a Quaker mastered his temper — Causes 
for jealousy to be guarded against — A good wife something of a 
physician — A lad in the wilderness and the two fairies 33 

CHAPTER II. 

ON PLANNING, PAINTING, AND PAPERING HOUSES. 

Elements of good taste — A well-planned house essential to domestic 
comfort — Points to be observed in erecting or selecting a house — Best 
site for a country house — Aspect of a house — Time should be taken 
in planning a house — Where the kitchen should be located — The 
stairs — The cellar — The windows — Sills of windows should be 
low — Defects in English palaces — Chimneys should be curved — 

7 



8 CONTENTS. 

Ceilings only moderately high — "Where the sleeping apartments 
should be located — The best woods for finishing — A good protec- 
tion against fire — Rubber-lined tubing for water-pipes — Defects in 
water-closets — An abundance of room-closets recommended — Im- 
portance of trapping drain-pipes — Dwyer's plan for heating and 
cooling rooms — Suggestions on painting and papering rooms — An 
artist's idea for decorating mansions — Selection of paper governed 
by the light and size of rooms — Suggestion on buying ivaU-paper 
— How to make a small room look large — How to clean paper- 
hangings — A recipe for a permanent whitewash 44 

CHAPTER III. 

THE ART OF HOUSE-FURNISHING. 

Modern furniture condemned by art critics — The fashionable woods 
a century <igo — Uses of different woods — What to avoid in buying 
furniture — A salesman's opinion of beauty not to be regarded — 
Tendency in upholstery to run into curves — Chairs and sofas so 
curved as to be uncomfortable — Tables and sofas should be strong 
and comely rather than light and elegant — Usefulness the first 
qualification — Size should be adapted to the dimensions of the 
apartment — Comfortable and elegant parlor chairs difficult to find 
— Selecting dining-room chairs — Cane seats unsuitable for bedroom 
chairs — Drawers in bureaus should not be too deep — Bedsteads — 
Novel articles in combination furniture — Pictures a7id picture- 
frames — Oil pictures should not be hung with water colors and 
engravings — Picture cords should correspond with the wall-paper 
— Framed pictures should not be suspended from one nail — How 
to select marble-top furniture — How to extract stains from marble — ■ 
Recipe for marble cement — How to take bruises out of furniture — 
How to clean mirrors — How to clean and tighten cane-seat chairs — 
How to take oil or grease from cloth — To remove stains from tables 
— How to cement broken china — Carpets — First point to be re- 
garded in buying a carpet — The cheapest floor-covering that can 
be made — The most desirable quality in a carpet — What colors to 
avoid — Large patterns to be avoided — The best carpet for an ordi- 
nary drawing-room — For bedrooms — Most economical way to lay 
down carpets — What to do when a carpet begins to wear — Hoxv to 
sweep carpets — How to preserve brooms — How to destroy moths in 
carpets — How to clean and brighten Brussels carpets — Selecting oil- 
cloths — How to clean oil-cloths — Moths in furniture — Only efTectual 
preventive known 55 



CONTENTS. 9 

CHAPTER IV. 

HOUSEHOLD CONVENIENCES NOT IN GENERAL USE. 

Housekeeping art — Novel mode of shelling beans — Importance of 
kitchen conveniences — Why there should be an abundance of 
kitchen cloths — Conveniences in a cook's galley — Articles to be 
found in a well-kept kitchen — What kind of tinware should be 
bought — Novel articles — The stock-pot a standard fixture in French 
kitchens — Whitewood boards preferable to tables — The Dutch 
oven higlily commended — The French bain-marie a very useful 
utensil for stewing — Faults of modern frying-pan — Scales and 
weights should be in every kitchen — Pasty-pans useful articles — 
Revolving gridiron — A novel egg-boiler — A bronze egg-steamer — 
Different kinds of egg-beaters — Best kind of coffee-pot — French 
turn-spit preferable for roasting meat — Warren's cooker commended 
— Apple and peach parers save labor — Ingenious invention for slic- 
ing potatoes — A new machine for shelling peas — A tendon sepa- 
rator a boon for bad carvers — How to choose refrigerators — Table 
gas-stoves useful — Rotary knife-cleaners save time — A griddle- 
greaser of recent invention — The best clothes-line protector — How 
to remove rust from knives, forks, etc. — How to prevent rust on iron 
or steel articles — Novel mode of sharpening edged tools — How to 
prevent lamps from smoking 69 

CHAPTER V. 

THE ART OF MARKETING HOUSEKEEPING HINTS. 

Dr. Kitchiner's rule for marketing — How to choose beef — What 
parts furnish the choicest beef — Sirloins — Why so called — Porter- 
house steaks — Where the tenderloin is taken from — How the rump 
is divided — Beef-^-la-mode — What the chuck contains — What the 
brisket-piece is used for — Which are the best beef's tongues — How 
to distinguish good beef's liver — How to cook a beef's heart — 
Points in good veal — How the hind-quarter is divided — Veal cutlets 
— Most economical piece of veal to buy — Calves' sweet-bread a delicacy 
— How to tell when a calf's head is fresh — How to buy calves' feet 
— How to select mutton and lamb — Appearance of poor mutton — 
What the two loins are called — Points of good lamb — Usual weight 
of a quarter of lamb — How to distinguish good pork — Measly pork 
— How to select good hams and bacon — What are the best sau- 



10 CONTENTS. 

sages— How lard is adulterated — How to keep meat from spoiling 
— How to tell when chickens are fresh — How to tell a younf/ turkey — 
Ducks and geese — How old pheasants may be known — Old part- 
ridges, wild fowl, hares and rabbits — How to choose venison — What 
vegeiablef are appropriate to different meats — How to select 
potatoes, turnips, tomatoes, cauliflowers, celery, egg-plant — 
How to distinguish bad from good mushrooms — Where potatoes 
should be kept — How cabbages and celery are best preserved — liow 
to keep apples — How to keep oranges, lemons and cranberries all 
winter— How to test seeds — How to distinguish /resA^sA. — How to 
judge whether oysters and clams are fresli — A hint to oyster-eaters 
— How to buy lobsters, crabs and terrapin — How the Chinese catch 
fish — Best mode of buying Jlour — Indian meal to be bought in small 
quantities — Rye and buckwheat should be kept in covered kegs — 
Sugars should not be bought by the barrel — Coffee and tea may be 
bought in considerable quantities — Difficult to get good indigo — 
Saleratus should be kept in glass bottles — Salt should be kept in 
the dry — Where to keep oils and molasses — How to keep spices — 
How to test nutmegs — W^hich Ls the best cheese — How to preserve 
eggs — How to test coal-oil 80 

CHAPTER VI. 

ON FUELS AND FIRES, SAVING GAS, ETC. 

Great waste of fuel — Principal substances used as fuel — What is 
charcoal, coke, peat — Different kinds of woods — Which is the best 
— Advantages of black birch, white oak, maple — How pine and 
chestnut may be made useful — Best trees make best fuel — What 
kind of ivood most profitable to buy — When wood is cheapest — Coal 
as a fuel — How to judge hard coed — How coal-dealers judge coal — 
How to kindle a coal fire — How to remove clinkers from stove 
grates — How to use coal economically — Experience of an old 
housekeeper — Good coal thrown out as cinders — How to measure 
coal — Gas as a fuel — Improvements in gas-stoves — How to regulate 
and save gas — Different kinds of burners— Importance of good 
burners — A good regulator economizes gas — Novel method of 
enriching gas — The best way to regulate flow of gas— How to 
extinguish fires and prevent conflagrations — Fire-proof buildings 
a failure — Every building sliould be provided with fire apparatus 
— A reorganization of the fire department recommended — Hoiv to 
preserve life when clothing is on fire — What persons should do at night 



CONTENTS. 11 

when they discover smoke in the room — How to use kerosene oU 
safely — Tricks of sellers of patent oils — How to save a person on 
fire — Best remedy for burns 105 

CHAPTER VII. 

ABOUT EATING AND ARTICLES OF FOOD. 

Animals directed by instinct to the right food — Food of the Esqui- 
maux — Classes into which food may be divided — What kinds of 
food produce heat, muscle, brains — Mistakes made in eating — 
Infinite variety of articles adapted for food — Wheat contains all 
the elements of the human system — Mye valuable to persons pre- 
disposed to constipation — Qualities of Indian corn as food — Oatmeal 
promotes muscular and mental activity — What rice should be eaten 
with — What vegetables are the most nutritious — Peas more easily 
digested than beans — Value of potatoes, carrots, turnips, etc. — 
Meats as food — Pork suited for cold weather and veal for warm — 
Value of beefsteak — Fish said to contain food for the brain — 
Chickens and poultry as food — What parts are the best — Best meat 
in birds — What oysters are good for — Food makes the man — One of 
the most important discoveries ever made — What kind of break- 
fast for students to eat — For laborers — What every one can test for 
himself — What to eat before going out in the cold — What to eat 
in summer — All kinds of food wholesome under certain circum- 
stances — Dr. Bellows' remarkable statement that rattlesnakes may 
be eaten — W^hat kinds of foods are the most digestible — How and 
when to eat — What suppers are the best — Dangers of nightmare — 
How Cornarro prolonged his life 121 

CHAPTER VIII. 

CHEAP LIVING AND ECONOMICAL FOOD. 

To teach art of living the greatest charity to the poor— Why 
American cookery is extravagant — How thousands of Frenchmen 
live — What may be done with ten cents a day in New York — 
Thoreau's experiment — Cost of keeping prisoners — What is 
actually needed to sustain life — Soyer's cheap soups — Value of 
grits or crushed wheat — Where the nutriment in wheat is — Food 
thrown to pigs exactly suited for children — Nutritious qualities of 
beans and peas — Cheapest of all food — How to cook pork and beans 
— Baked beans — Indian corn nutritious and cheap — Mistakes in 



12 CONTENTS. 

grinding and boiling it — How to make corn bread — How to make 
Indian pudding — How to cook hominy — How they cook rice in 
Italy — How to make rice pudding without eggs — Utility of lentils — 
Kecipe for farmer's rice — Oatmeal said to contain the most mate- 
rial for hard work of any known grain — Recipe for oatmeal por- 
ridge — What are the most economical meals — Wliat is tlie best 
corned-beef — A cheap and excellent bee/stew — A good and economi- 
cal breakfast dish — How to fry rashers of bacon and poach eggs — 
Eoasted ox-heart stuffed, a savory and economical dish — A genuine 
pepper-pot — English celebrated for cold-meat cookery — What can 
be done witli cold roast beef — Cold mutton — Cold veal — Cold poultry 
— Mixed coffees the best — Wheat and coffee afford an agreeable 
mixture — Peas used largely to adulterate coffee — Excellence of 
sturgeon, veal-cutlets, and vegetable beefsteaks 131 

CHAPTER IX. 

VALUABLE SECRETS KNOWN TO GOOD COOKS. 

Bad cooking is waste — The regret of Mrs, Warren's friend — Value 
of family kitchen maxims — What comprise the essential opera- 
tions in cookery — How to bake meats — Should meat to be boiled 
be put in cold or hot water — How to boil cabbages — What is the 
most important thing in broiling — Sliould a beefsteak be turned 
once only or often — Soyer's opinion — What the French understand 
by frying — How to test the heat of fat in frying — What careful 
cooks do with their frying-fat — How to roast meat — Slow roasting 
the best — How veal, fowls and rabbits should be roasted — Use of 
covering with bacon fat — What fire is best for stewing — The proper 
rule for seasoning — Wash greens in warm water — What a cook 
should be — Cleanliness in kitchen utensils a cardinal requisite — 
A good cook regards appearances — How punctuality in meals can 
be assured— How to avoid waste — Cooking-aprons with bibs desir- 
able — How to treat frying-pans— Few cooks can make good bis- 
cuits — How to neutralize acid in fruit pies — How to make good 
family bread — Marion Harland's directions— Miss Leslie's recom- 
mendation — How to make stale bread or cake fresh — Convenient 
uses of bread dough— Soyer's recipe for good buttered toast — How 
to fry ham and eggs — Blot's beef-broth and soup — How to boil eggs 
— How to boil potatoes — The Irish method — What may be done with 
cold potatoes — How to boil sweet potatoes — How to boil turnips — 
To make cabbage digestible — To cook onions without smell — To make 



CONTENTS. 13 

maccaroni cheese — Lyman's method of cooking mackerel — Wliat 
good cooks do with cold veal — To boil bacon — Novel mode of 
making coffee — Cabbage made digestible to all — Should coffee 
be ground or beaten — Professor Blot's method of making tea — 
Soyer's plan — Hints about chocolate — How to prepare salads — Bill 
of fare for the sick — Food for young children — Food suited to deli- 
cate persons — Standard breakfast dishes — Sunday dinners that save 
cooking — Dr. Lamlort's bill of fare of brain-making food 150 

CHAPTER X. 

DAINTY DISHES FOR DAINTY PALATES. 
1. Domestic Cookery. 

In what the art of cookery consists — Higli-class cookery — How to 
roast beef English style — Proper fire for roasting beef — Length 
of time required — How to roast canvas-back ducks — How to extract 
their fishy flavor — Lady St. Clair on roasting game, ducks, part- 
ridges, woodcock, etc. — How to barbecue rabbits and squirrels — 
To broil pigeons or squabs — Roasted guinea-fowls richer than 
cliickens — Harland's recipe for baking salmon-trout — How to cook 
brook-trout — Broiled reed birds a dainty dish — Charles Lamb on 
roast pig and apple-sauce — How to make mutton eat like venison — 
Best mode of broiling oysters on the sliell — Finest way of cooking 
oysters for company — How to dress chicken as terrapin — Soyer's 
French pot au feu — Eggs and cheese a favorite dish — Professor 
Blot's recipe for French omelets — Good cheap omelet — How to 
make a Swiss rarebit — A genuine Welsh rarebit — Good sauce for 
every kind of fish — The Harlem river boatmen's recipe for clam 
chowder — Tom Riley's clam bakes — Soyer's wholesome summer 
salad — French method of dressing salad — Parkinson's recipe for 
strawberries with orange juice — A delicious custard — Very fine cold 
cup custard — The queen of puddings — A pleasant fruit dessert — A 
delicious apple sauce — A nice breakfast dish — Dainty dish for 
farmers — Green-corn fritters and pudding — Buckwheat short-cakes 
— The nicest pie ever eaten — A rare strawberry short-cake — 
National French cake — An exquisite marmalade — Saratoga fried 
potatoes — Philadelphia fried potatoes — An exquisite mince pie — 

How to make superior ice cream 179 

2 



14 CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER XI. 

DAINTY DISHES FOR DAINTY PALATES. 

High-class cookery — Large salaries paid to head-cooks — Ex- 
pense of banquets in fashionable restaurants — Cost of flowers — 
Admirable arrangement of kitchens — Dinners that are marvels of 
culinary skill — Costly bills of i'are — A Nevada senator's bill of 
fare engraved on silver — Recipes of dainty dishes invented in 
Dehuunico's restaurant and furnished by the chief cook — A menu 
"or twelve persons — How to make Creme d'asperge — How to cook 
orook-trout — Duchesse potatoes — Fillet de boeuf, salvandy — Fillets 
of chickens h, I'aquitaine — Force meat — Salpicon — English snipe 
— Ananas a la Bayration — How to make Sorbet au kirch — Parfait 
au caie and numerous French and other dishes belonging to high- 
class cookery 206 

CHAPTER XII. 

PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS ON CLOTHING. 

Chesterfield's opinion on dress — Siiakspeare's ideas on proper apparel 
— Buying cloth — What should be kept in view — Advantages of 
a frock coat — What may be made from old clothes — How to 
CLOTHE children — What should be worn next the skin in child- 
liood — Clothing should be free and loose — An expensive custom 
in men's clothing — Advantages of laying woollen garments 
away a while — What suits a gentleman should have — Best goods 
for business suits — What should be avoided in striped trousers- 
Plow to cleanse broadcloths — How to treat a wet hat, or coat, or 
boots — How io render cloth water-proof — How to obtain easy boots 
or shoes — How to preserve boots and shoes — A cure for squeaking 
shoes — Women's clothing — Tbe first rule in buying dress goods — 
Advantages of chintzes and calicoes — How to choose calicoes — How 
to select silks — Tlie best way to test their quality — Utility of black 
alpaca — What style of women look well in plaids — In stripes — 
In flounces — In shawls — Bonnets— Selecting colors that harmon- 
ize with the complexion — What colors become blondes — Brunettes 
— Hints to wearers of kid gloves — How to wash chintzes and summer 
dresses, including buff-linen, pique, cambric — How to judge 
LINEN — Healthfulness of flannels — When to take off and put on 



CONTENTS. 15 

flannels — Proper method of washing flannels — Washing clothes 
made easy — Advantages of refined borax — How to preserve the 
lustre of silks — How to protect woollens, furs, etc., from moths — 
The test of good furs 216 

CHAPTER XIII. 

THE SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 

Cleanliness a test of civilization — The two great enemies of beauty of 
form — How to reduce corpulence — Excessive corpulence is a disease 
— Stock-raisers know how to fatten or reduce flesh in animals — 
Banting's experiments in reducing corpulency — What he was 
allowed to eat and what was forbidden — The efiect in a year — 
How ladies may reduce excessive development of the breast — Sir 
James Clark's advice for increasing its development — How to cure 
leanness — What to eat and drink — Beauty of complexion — Impor- 
tance of keeping the pores of the skin open — Cosmetics that are not 
injurious — What to do to prevent sunburn — How to cure freckles 
— Recipe for removing tan and sunburn — How to remove birth 
marks and moles — To prevent wrinkles — Eecipe for curing tetter — 
A novel cure for ringworm — The hair — Favorite colors — Kules for 
securing a beautiful head of hair — How baldness may be cured — 
A wash for dandruff" — How to darken the hair — How to secure 
beautiful eye-lashes — Hands and nails — Wearing kid gloves im- 
proves the appearance of the hands — What water should be used for 
washing and why — How to treat the nails — Cures for chapped hands 
— Best ointment for the hands — How to remove warts — Caee op 
THE EYES — When to use spectacles — Best remedies for inflamed eyes 
— How to remove cinders from the eye — Squinting may be cured — 
White veils injurious — How to preserve the teeth — What to do to 
avoid having decayed teeth — A safe tooth-powder — Infallible cures 
for tootliache and faceache — Bad breath — Causes of offensive 
breaths — Best remedy for bad breath — How the taint of onions may 
be removed — Care of the feet — How to keep feet in good condition 
— Remedy for tender feet — Treatment of chilblains — Astley 
Cooper's remedy — To relieve feet itching from frost bites — How to 
prevent frosted feet — A remedy for cold feet — Cures for ingrowing 
nails — Proper ways of cutting nails — Causes of fetid feet — Cures 
for odorous feet — Corns and bunions — Origin of, and how they may 
be speedily cured — Corns cured in ten minutes — A capital oint- 
ment for bunions — How to reinove body vermin — Peculiarities of 



16 CONTENTS. 

these insects — Simple remedies for their speedy destniction — How 
to drive away roaches — How to banish flies from a room and from 
horses, etc. — Bedbug exterminators — How to destroy rats — Humph- 
rey Davy's infallible rat poison — How to drive them away alive — 
What ants do not like — How to banisli_/Zea from houses and from 
animals — How to get relief from musgiiiloes — What a smart editor 
does — Kemedies for bites of insects 240 

CHAPTER XIV. 

THE FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 

Sickness one ot the great burdens of society — The best room for a 
sick-room — Advantage of sun-light — Well-aired bedding essential 
— Best night-light — How to purify the air in a sick-room — Dr. 
Smytlie's recipe for preventing infection — Colds and coughs — 
Treatment recommended by the regulars — What Dio Lewis recom- 
mends — How to avoid taking cold — Sir Astley Cooper's preven- 
tive — The best and cheapest cough-syrup ever made — Dr. Che- 
vasse's advice not to stop a cough in children — Asthma — A cheap 
palliative — Dr. Finley's prescription — What has cured asthma and 
■what is considered a specific — Ague — Dr. Chase's prescription — 
A novel cure for ague — How to prevent fever and ague — Experience 
of the French Creole planters — How to prevent bleeding from the 
nose — How to arrest bleeding from the lungs — A cheap blood-puri- 
fier — A remedy for bruises and black eyes — Remedy for pinched 
fingers — Cure for chilblains and frosted feet — Proper treatment for 
diarrhoea — Hints for travellers — Dr. Locock's remedy for dysentery 
— Warm bath recommended — Raw minced beef found effective — ■ 
Dyspepsia or indigestion — What is the first essential element 
in the cure — Secret of the New York doctor who charged five htm- 
dred dollars for each case — Voltaire's remedy — HowMrs.Swisshelm 
cured her dyspepsia — A remedy for the indigestion resulting from 
overeating — Earache and deafness — Best treatment for remov- 
ing concreted wax — Several remedies for erysipelas — What to do 
when a person faints — How to cure a felon in six hours — Recipe 
for felon ointment that lias been sold for ten dollars — Remedies for 
headache — How to cure heartburn or waterbrash — Remedies for 
hysterical fits and nervousness — Preliminary treatment of pleurisy 
— Relief for liver complaint — The most successful treatment for 
piles — Dr. Hariman's sure cure for blind or bleeding piles — Reme- 
dies for sore throat — The best gargle — Smoking muUen leaves 



CONTENTS. 17 

recommended — Smal'l-pox or variola — A Californian's 
remarkable statement — Dr. Getchell's opinion that sraall-pox 
may be utterly exterminated — How to prevent 'pitting in small-pox 
— What a person should do who has been bitten by an animal 
supposed to have been rabid — A cure for scrofula — Sprains — A 
French remedy for sea-sickness — Simple remedy for curing ringworm 
and barbell's itch — How to prevent curvature of the spine — Uses of 
cold water in disease — Value of alcohol as a medicine — Opinions 
of Surgeon-General Hammond and Mrs. Swisshelm — Why ammonia 
should be kept in the house — What may be done with chlorate of 
potash , 266 

CHAPTER XV. 

CHILDEEN AND THEIR DISEASES. 

Macaulay's remark — Healthy children a monument of their parents' 
thrift — Proper food for infants — Dr. C!ombe's observation — Dr. 
Clarke on animal food — When should an infant be spoon-fed — 
Advice to sucklitig mothers — The proper period for weaning a 
child — Good pap for infants — A good breakfast dish for infants of 
twelve months old — Good porridge — What to do when a baby cries 
— Character of the cry indicative of the nature of the trouble — Cry 
of earache — Bowel-ache — Bronchitis — Croupy cry — When tears 
are a favorable indication in illness — Proper treatment of infants — 
Treatment during teething — Importance of fenders around a stove 
in nursery — Cause of weak ankles and curved legs — Proper clothing 
for infants— Infantile diseases — Remedy for red gum — For 
vomiting — How thread-worms may be removed — The best vermi- 
fuges — Value of onions — Diseases of the mouth — Treatment of con- 
vulsions or fits — What to do in remittent fever — Croup — Promptness 
in treatment essential — An English doctor's recommendation — 
What to do for child-crowing or spurious croup — Measles — Little 
medicine required — The nurse more important than the doctor — 
Mumps — Treatment for — How they may be removed in four or five 
days — Palliatives for whooping-cough — Dr. Dailey's prescription 
— A remedy for soreness in the chest — Dr. Delamere's quick cure for 
whooping-cough — When a change of air is beneficial — W^hat to do 
in clu)lera-morbus or summer complaint — How to treat diarrhoea in 
children — A specific for all bowel complaints — Dr. Newell's treat- 
ment of diphtheria — How two hundred and ninety-three cases 
were treated without losing a single patient — Instant relief for 



18 CONTENTS. 

EARACHE — How to treat burns, scalds, etc. — Kecipe to cure 
itching feet from frost-bites — Cheap cure for tlie itch — Dr. Chase's 
ointment for the seven years' itch — Dr. Bird's prescription — 
Cure for tetter — A remedy for hiccouc/h — Scarlet fever — How 
to distinguish scarlatina from other eruptive diseases — Dr. Che- 
vasse's treatment of scarlet fever — Best external application for 
the throat — What he regards as a specific for scai-let fever — 
Food to be eaten in scarlet fever — Gartland's scarle* fever 
disinfectant 305 

CHAPTER XVI. 

SLEEP AND ITS APPLIANCES. 

Napoleon's remark on sleep and death — Shakspeare's beautiful 
tribute to sleep — What is the proper length of time to sleep — For 
children — -For adults — For women and students — What kind of 
BED is best — Dr. Strange's opinion — What is the best mattress, 
and which the cheapest and most economical — Domestic mattresses 
— Best springs to put under mattresses — Best covering for beds — 
Blankets — Treatment of — How to wash blankets — Cotton sheets 
preferable to linen — Best pillow-slips — How to sweeten sheets — 
Hair pillows better than feathers — How to ventilate sleeping 
apartments — A doctor's objection to the present method — How 
long should bed-room windows remain open — Fires in bed-rooms 
— What can be done to produce sleep — Which side is best to sleep 
on — Sleeping on the back — Should food betaken just before going to 
bed — What Dr. Strange recommends — Digestion goes on during 
sleep — A nap after dinner recommended — Coffee and tea for sup- 
per considered — What narcotics are unobjectionable — Onions 
soporific — Franklin's art of procuring sleep — Two beds are 
recommended for invalids — When all rules for procuring sleep 
will fail 333 

CHAPTER XVII. 

THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 

Chronology of early ages was not the same as at present— A remark- 
able statement — Methuselah's age reduced to two hundred— Eras- 
mus Wilson's remark — What things tend to shorten life— What 
errors students commit — How cold bathing may shorten life— What 



COjS^TENTS. 



19 



things tend to prolong life — What remedies to employ in case of 
suffocation — Cut the rope — The tepid bath useful — Conveying air 
into the lungs — Kubbing with a cloth or flesh-brush — How to restore 
persons struck by lightning — The earth bath recommended — How 
to restore persons frozen — The two great antidotes for poisoning- 
Best antidotes for arsenic or corrosive sublimate — How the old may 
prolong their lives — Heat essential — What old people should eat 
— Regularity in all natural operatioHS — Danger of indulging in 
violent passions — Old folks should associate with children and 
renew their life 344 




HOME COMFOETS. 



CHAPTER I. 

INTEODTJCTORY. — ELEMENTS OF COMFORT. 

"There is no more intensely interesting subject, among tlie many 
questions of the day, tlian the great problem of Domestic Economy. 
How to live well and comfortably, and yet cheaply, without descending 
to niggardliness, is, and has been, the study of wise men and philosophers 
in all ages." — Anon. 

COMFORT has been called the principal household god 
of the English people. Home and Comfort are cer- 
tainly the two most significant words in the English 
^ language. In countries where the air is genial 
throughout the year, and to bask in the sunshine imparts 
health and pleasure, the dwelling and its management may 
be matters of secondary consideration ; but in England and 
the United States a comfortable home is the first essential 
element in the art of living happily. 

Home comfort is the result of knowing how to manage 
the details of a household in the best manner, so that its 
machinery will work smoothly, without jar or friction, 
and applying that knowledge daily, which is sometimes 
called House-thrift. Wealth, though it can purchase lux- 
ury, cannot buy comfort. The rich, as well as the very 
poor, are often without homes, or have homes that are not 

33 



34 . HOME COMFORTS. 

homes. When the spirit of domestic disorder or unthrift 
enters the door, whether it be of a mansion or of a cottage, 
all the good angels fly out of the windows. So when the 
genius of Good Management comes within a household. 
Comfort follows soon after, erects her shrine and distributes 
daily blessings to every member of the family. 

It is remarkable that though the ambition to live com- 
fortably is so general as to be almost universal, yet very few 
attain the object of their wishes. Those who have made 
their fortunes are wheedled into the meshes of fashionable 
society, bound with silver chains, and delivered over into 
the hands of the most remorseless of taskmasters. The 
middle classes sacrifice comfort in their attempts to imitate 
the rich in their style of living, and involve themselves in 
debt and its attendant vexations. Even among the work- 
ing classes, their daily meals are often miniature banquets. 
Living to eat, rather than eating to live, they consume the 
nest-egg of independence and wonder there is no increase. 
An English manufacturer remarked that he could not 
really afford to buy spring lamb, and green peas, and sal- 
mon, and new potatoes, and strawberries, for some weeks 
after his hands had been feeding on these delicacies. 

Some one has naively remarked there is nothing so ex- 
pensive as living, except, perhaps, it be dying and employing 
a fashionable undertaker. Alexis Soyer, one of the noted 
authorities in gastronomy, in order partly to magnify the 
importance of his calling, has attempted to compute the 
quantities of food which an English epicure probably con- 
sumes, if his life be prolonged to threescore years and ten ; 
and takinp; for the basis of his calculation the averagce or 
medium consumption at daily meals, he estimates that a 
moderately good liver consumes 300 oxen, 500 calves, 
lambs, pigs, etc., 1200 fowls, 1000 ducks, turkeys, etc., 



ELEMENTS OF COMFORT. 35 

3600 birds of various kinds, 500 hares and rabbits, 40 
deer, 120 Guinea hens, 360 wild fowl, 5000 smelts, 4000 
other kinds of fish, not counting whitebait, 30,000 oysters, 
1500 lobsters or crabs, 300,000 prawns, shrimps, sardines, 
etc., 500 lbs. of grapes, 360 lbs. of pine apple, 240 melons, 
some hundred thousand ajjples, pears, plums, etc., and 
some millions of cherries, strawberries, currants, and other 
small fruit, as walnuts, chestnuts, and figs ; 5475 lbs. of 
vegetables of all kinds, 2434| lbs. of butter, 684 lbs. of 
cheese, 21,000 eggs, 4^ tons of bread, half a ton of salt 
and pepper, and near 2 J tons of sugar ; and that he will 
drink 2736 gallons of water, 2394 gallons of coffee and 
tea, 1368 gallons of beer, and 4200 gallons of other 
liquids. This calculation, if only approximately accurate, 
demonstrates most forcibly how great is the cost of our 
daily subsistence, and how important is that knowledge 
which enables us to select and prepare these vast quantities 
of food without loss or waste, and in accordance with the 
laws of health. It is undoubtedly true that the greater 
part of human labor is directly employed in producing 
materials for human food. 

Another serious drawback to the attainment of Domestic 
Comfort is ignorance of the elements of comfort, especially 
of good cookery. In the princely establishments of Europe 
and the mansions of the wealthy, where a dinner is not 
merely a necessity, but a luxury, all the great chiefs of the 
kitchen are men. The Francatellis, the Soyers, the Blots, 
and the GoufPds, whose names are familiar in both conti- 
nents, are simply by profession male cooks, but they are 
also men of genius, and deservedly take rank with 
artists, for it requires as much talent to prepare a modern 
banquet as to paint a modern picture. In the homes of 



36 HOME COMFOBTS. 

luxurious living the health of the chief cook is a most 
important matter, and is guarded with assiduous care, 
because when there is any aihnent in the body the palate 
cannot be relied upon. Some enthusiastic gourmand 
recommends an employer to feel tlie pulse of his cook 
every morning, and examine his tongue, for he says if his 
system be out of order, and "the cook's palate is dull, 
his master will find the ragouts and sauces too highly 
seasoned." 

It is the conceit of some philosophers that men are not 
only the best cooks, but the only fit persons to write books 
of cookery. The oldest and one of the best books in this 
class of literature, known as " Mrs. Glasse's Cookerv," was 
written, it is said, by Dr. Hill. " "Women," said Dr. Johnson, 
"can spin very well; but they cannot make a good book 
of cookery." The learned doctor himself thought of 
writing a book upon the philosophy of cooking, and said that 
as " a prescription, which is now compounded of five in- 
gredients, had formerly fifty in it, so in cookery, if t\\Q 
nature of the ingredients be well known, much fewer will 
do. Then, as you cannot make bad meat good, I would 
tell what is the best butcher's meat, the best beef, the best 
pieces ; how to choose young fowls ; the proper seasons of 
different vegetables; and then how to roast, boil, and 
compound." 

In France, all classes, the men as Avell as the women, 
study the economy of cookery and practise it ; and there, 
as many travellers affirm, the people live at one-third the 
expense of Englishmen or Americans. There they know 
how to make savory messes out of remnants that others 
would throw away. There they cook no more for each 
day than is required for that day. "With them the art 
ranks with the fine arts, and a great cook is as much hon- 



ELEMENTS OF COMFOET. 87 

ored and respected as a sculptor or a painter. The conse- 
quence is, as ex-Secretary McCullough thinks, a French 
village of a thousand inhabitants could be supported lux- 
uriously on the waste of one of our large American hotels, 
and he believes that the entire population of France could 
be supported on the food which is literally wasted in the 
United States. Professor Blot, who resided for some years 
in the United States, remarks, pathetically, that here, 
" where the markets rival the best markets of Europe, it is 
really a pity to live as many do live. There are thousands 
of families in moderately good circumstances who have 
never eaten a loaf of really good bread, nor tasted a well- 
cooked steak, nor sat down to a pro[)erly prepared meal." 

But in American households it is not the fashion for men 
to concern themselves with the details of the kitchen. The 
wife is the prime minister in the administration of the 
household, and within the limits of her jurisdiction her 
power over the fortune and well-being of her subjects is 
more absolute than that of t'le most despotic sovereign. 
If she be ignorant of the arts of frugal management, or 
wilfully extravagrant, or carelessly indifferent, not only the 
exchequer but the health of the family will suffer. The 
wife is the central figure in the household, and the secret 
or philosophy of Home Comfort consists principally in 
getting a good wife, who knows the things worth know- 
ing in household management, or is teachable and 
willing to learn. 

The Qualifications of a Good Wife. 

A good wife, it may be remarked, is not a natural growth, 
springing from the soil without care or cultivation. Some- 
thing undoubtedly is due to parentage and example, but in 
the main a girl is trained to be what she becomes. Writers 
3 



38 HOME COMFOETS. 

on physiology and hygiene, as well as those on morals, have 
had a good deal to say on the education of women, but 
probably no one has written so much that is practical and 
useful as Dr. Chavasse, in his little books entitled ^'Advice 
to Wives" and "Advice to Mothers." 

First of all in tlie list of qualifications that fit a woman 
for marriage, and above all others, he, in common with 
most other sensible writers, places Good Health. Life 
without health is a burden ; life with health is a joy and 
gladness. It is a fearful responsibility both to men and 
women to many if they be not healthy, and the result 
must, as a matter of course, be misery. How needful it 
therefore is that all necessary instruction should be im- 
parted to every young wife, and the proper means shown 
by which she may preserve her health. 

How to Preserve a Wife's Health. 

In order to maintain health, a young married woman 
ought to take regular and systematic out-door exercise, so 
far as it can be done without interfering with her house- 
hold duties. Walking expands the chest, strengthens the 
muscles, promotes digestion, and exhilarates like a glass of 
champagne, but unlike c!iam[)agne, it never leaves a head- 
ache behind. " If ladies would walk more than they do, 
there would be fewer lackadaisical, useless, complaining 
wives than there at present are ; and instead of having a 
race of puny children we should have a race of giants." 

In order to preserve health a young married womar 
must attend to the ventilation of her house. Ninety-nine 
out of every hundred bed-rooms, doctors assert, are badly 
ventilated ; and in the morning after they have been slept 
in they' are full of impure and poisoned air. " I say ad- 



ELEMENTS OF COMFOBT. 39 

visedly impure and poisoned air, for the air becomes foul 
and deadly if not perpetually changed — if not constantly 
mixed, both by day and by night, with fresh, pure, external 
air. Many persons, by breathing the same air over and 
over again, are literally poisoned by their own breaths. 
This is not an exaggerated statement — alas, it is too true!" 
For ventilation open the windows both at top and bottom, 
that the fresh air may rush in one way, while the foul air 
makes its exit through the other. This is letting in your 
friend and expelling an enemy. 

In order to preserve health a young wife should icash 
her body thoroughly evevy morning. "There is nothing," 
siys Dr. Chavasse, " more tonic, and invigorating, and 
refreshing than a cold ablution. Moreover, it makes one 
feel clean and swe3t and wholesome ; and you may depend 
upon it t;iat it not only improves our physical constitu- 
tion but likewise our moral character. A dirty man has 
generally a dirty mind." 

In order to preserve health a young wife should have a 
nourishing diet, and especially a substantial breakfast. She 
must frequently vary the kind of food, of meat especially, 
as also the manner of cooking it. Where a lady is very 
thin, good fresh milk, if it agree, should form an important 
item of her diet. The meagre breakfasts of many young 
wives, eating scarcely anything, is one cause, the doctor 
thinks, of so much sickness among them, and of so many 
puny children in the Avorld. A woman who has no appe- 
tite for her breakfast is not in perfect health, and should 
consult her medical adviser. 

In order to preserve health a wife should have seven or 
eight hours of sound, refreshing sleep. " Sleep is of more 
consequence to the human economy than food. Nothing 
should therefore be allowed to interfere with sleep. And 



40 HOME COMFOETS. 

as tlie attendance on large assemblies, balls, and concerts 
interferes sadly, in every way, with sleep, they ought one 
and all to be sedulously avoided." Early rising, not later 
than six in summer and seven in winter, is also recom- 
mended, as it imparts health to the frame as well as gives 
animation to the household. "The early risers make the 
healthy, bright, long-lived wives and mothers." 

In order to preserve health it is necessary to avoid the 
use of alcoholic stimulants, except as a medicine. " It is 
surprising," says Dr. Chavasse, " the quantity of wine 
some young ladies, at parties, can imbibe without being 
intoxicated ; but whether if such ladies marry they will 
make fruitful vines is quite another matter; but of this I 
am quite sure that such girls will, as a rule, make delicate, 
hysterical, and unhealthy wives. The young are peculiarly 
sensitive to the evil effects of over-stimulation. Excessive 
wine-drinking with them is a canker, eating into their very 
lives. Time it is that these facts were proclaimed through 
the length and breadth of our land before mischief be done 
past remedy." 

Other Qualifications of a Good Wife. 

A good wife is not only a healthy woman, but one who 
thoroughly understands household duties. In Sweden, it is 
said, the young ladies of wealthy families esteem it a priv- 
ilege to be permitted to cook the family dinner ; and in 
France every woman can cook, hence good cookery is with 
them the rule, while with us it is the exception. It is true, 
as Dr. Johnson remarked, that a man is in general better 
pleased when he has a good dinner upon his table than 
when his wife speaks Greek. But it is also true that a 
good house-wife is of necessity an educated woman, learned 
not in the dead languages, but in the physical sciences. 



ELEMENTS OF COMFOET. 41 

She is a chemist, technologist, and a physician. On the 
Avails of her laboratory are hung texts of practical wisdom 
for the instruction of her domestics, and in an appropriate 
corner, within convenient reach, is a small but select library 
of books on Household Science, Domestic Economy, and 
Common Sense Cookery. " The practical value of cookery 
books," says Delamere, " consists not so much in the in- 
struction they afford to persons totally ignorant of the art, as 
ia their suggestiveuess to heads of households who do know 
something about it, A lady is puzzled how to vary agree- 
ably and economically her day's bill of fare. She consults 
her books, and there are many good ones ; and without 
slavishly following their indications, adapts them to her 
own tastes and circumstances. A clever housekeeper, with 
only half a hint, will improvise pleasing culinary novel- 
ties — novelties, that is, to the habitual diners at her own 
f miily table, whereas without the hint she might have gone 
]>lodding on in a wearisome routine of roast, boiled, and 
cold. 

A good wife not only knows the details of household 
duties, but the secret of economical management. There 
are many women who have the disposition to do, and suc- 
ceed tolerably well, provided they have plenty of means ; 
but their management is inordinately extravagant. They 
throw away as remnants what would suffice a good cook 
for a meal. They cook more than is required and allow 
tiie surplus to spoil. They spend the time in making iced 
cakes which should be devoted to making good bread. It 
has been said of American women that there are more who 
can furnish you with a good ice-cream than a well-cooked 
mutton-chop ; a fair charlotte-russe is easier to gain than a 
perfect cup of coffee ; and you shall find a sparkling jelly 
to your dessert when you sighed in vain for a v>'cll-cooked 



42 HOIfE C03IF0BTS. 

potato. They forget that to do common things perfectly is 
far better worth our endeavor than to do uncommon things 
respectably. 

A good wife also cultivates cheerfulness, and placidity of 
temper and disposition. Nothing disturbs digestion and 
consequently injures health so much as a fretful, easily 
ruffled temper. "Our passions," says Dr. Grosvenor, "may 
be compared to the winds in the air, which, when gentle 
and moderate, fill the sail and carry the ship on smoothly 
to the desired port ; but when violent, unmanageable and 
boisterous, they grow to a storm and threaten the ruin and 
destruction of all." Fortunately temper is susceptible of 
cultivation, and may be controlled. A Quaker, who was 
remarkable for the mastery he had acquired over his temper, 
was asked by one, who had roundly abused him, the secret, 
and he replied that in his youth he was also hot and irri- 
table, but having observed that those who got into a passion 
elevated their voices he resolved never to allow his voice 
to rise above a certain pitch, and that was his secret. 

A good wife, moreover, avoids giving cause for jealousy. 
There are some women who delight to test their husbands' 
affection by flirting with others and mean no harm, but 
jealousy is too dangerous a passion to trifle with. When 
aroused it is rarely ever allayed ; it grows by feeding on 
apprehension, and magnifies mole-hills into mountains. 
Trifles light as air 

"Are, to the jealous, confirmations strong 
As proofs of Holy Writ." 

Lastly, a good wife is something of a physician, and in 
the minor ills, and especially infantile complaints, the best 
of physicians. She knows the proper remedies for cuts 
and bruises, mumps and measles, as well as the best cos- 



ELEMENTS OF COMFORT. 43 

metics for the complexion, and pomades for tlie hair ; and 
is an expert in destroying bugs and banishing fleas. All 
the information contained in the subsequent pages of this 
volume is in substance familiar to a properly educated 
woman, though we may wonder 

" That one small head could carry all (she) knew." 

It is related that a lad who had been brought up in a 
wilderness by a hermit, and had been kept from the sight 
of women, saw by chance two girls walking, and inquiring 
what they were, was told they were fairies. Long after- 
ward, when he was asked what was the pleasantest thing 
he had ever seen in all his wanderings, he replied, " The 
two fairies in the wilderness." So a man who has known 
a good wife or mother treasures her memory as the 
pleasantest recollection of his life. 



CHAPTER II. 

ox HOUSE-PLAXXIXG AXD SELECTIXG "WALL-PAPER. 

" Taste — which has been cle:=cribed as the finest ornament and purest 
hixurv of a land— is a thing of culture, and to its full enjoyment we may 
not hope to attain till the eye has been trained as well as the mind. 
Everything that is strained, forced or unnatural, is repulsive. An excess 
of color, an elaboration of carved ornaments, or extravagance of any 
kind, in matters of taste, should meet a well-merited censure." — Mason. 

XE of the fuiKlamcntal principles or elements of do- 
mestic comfort is, for most persons, a convenient and 
well-planned dwelling. ^lucli has been written on 
the subject of house-building, but a digest of it 
would probably be of very limited practical value. Those 
who intend to build for themselves will be likely to study 
the works specially devoted to architecture; those who 
have already built do not need to be told what mistakes 
they have made, and those who have not the meaus to 
build for themselves must take such houses as they can get. 
There are a few points, however, that have such an impor- 
tant influence upon economy in housekeeping, that they 
they should be borne in mind when erecting or selecting a 
house. 

Points to be Observed in House-Planning. 

In building a house in the coimtry tlie first consideration 
is a selection of a site or location, and this should always 
be, if possible, on dry, gravelly boil, iiiodcratcly elevated 
44 



HOUSE-PLANNING. 45 

and slightly declining on every side to afford good drainage. 
Trees upon a site always improve it, but they should not be 
too numerous or too near the house, or they will make the 
rooms gloomy and injure the w^alls and roof by their con- 
tinual shade and dampness. 

With regard to the aspect of a house, all architectural 
writers concur that the principal front should be towards 
the southeast. Mr. Repton remarks, " I consider the aspect 
of infinitely more consequence to the enjoyment and comfort 
of the inhabitant than any prospect whatever ; and every 
common observer must be convinced that in this climate a 
southern aspect is most desirable ; but few are aware of 
the total difference in the effect of turning the front of the 
house a few points to the east or to the west of south, be- 
cause, although the southeast is the best, the southwest is 
the worst of all possible aspects, for this reason, that all 
blustering winds and driving rains come from the south- 
west, and consequently the windows are so covered with 
wet as to render the landscape hardly visible." 

With regard to the plan of a proposed house, it is de- 
sirable to spend a good deal of time during the winter in 
discussing and considering it, and it is well to take counsel 
from an intelligent woman. Women generally have a 
much better idea of what constitutes real comfort in a 
house than men ; and on all points connected with the 
relative arrangement of apartments, so as to save labor on 
the part of servants, we Avould far sooner take the opinion 
of an intelligent woman than that of the cleverest architect 
who ever handled drawing square and pencil. The follow- 
ing points deserve careful consideration in any plan that 
may be adopted : 

1. Let the kitchen if possible be on a level with the 
principal floor, and for strong light and free ventilation it 



46 HOME COMFORTS. 

should have wiudows on opposite or nearly opposite 
sides. 

2. The pantry, or dish closet, should be between tlie 
kitchen and dining-room and easily accessible from either. 

3. There should be a set of easy inside stairs from the 
kitchen to the cellar, and also an outer set into the cellar 
for admitting barrels, hogsheads, etc. 

4. Every entrance, except the one to the kitchen, should 
be from an entry or hall, not only to prevent the abrupt in- 
gress of cold air and for proper seclusion, but to prevent 
the too common evil of passing through one room to 
enter another. 

5. Let the partitions of the upper floors stand over those 
of the lower, as nearly as may be, to secure firmness and 
solidity. 

6. If possible arrange that the "windov/s be placed 
diagonally to the four cardinal points, so that at no lookout 
will a living or sleeping room be all day deprived of the 
sun's rays, nor all day be exposed to them. 

7. Let the sills of the windows be low^, so that while 
sitting you can easily, without effort, see out; say not 
much exceeding two feet. 

8. Avoid having too many doors opening into an apart- 
ment of moderate size.* 

* Mr. Hiiggins, in the "London ideas of domestic enjoyment to the 

Building News," remarks :" I have winds that ride rampant throush 

noted plans of recently erected tliem. At one of Her Majesty's 

noblemen's and other mansions, residences, if it be not belied by the 

showing four or five doors opening engraved plan of it, scarce one of 

into one room of but moderate di- the rooms contains a snug corner, 

mensions, sometimes two of them in so numerous are the doors opening 

the same wall with tlie fire-place, into them from every direction, 

which must render freedom fi-om one-half of which might be built up 

draughts impossible, and give all with great advantage to the place." 



HOUSE-PLANNING. 47 

9. The chimneys shouhl be curved gently in the form of 
an S, instead of having them perpendicular. By this 
means tlie draft will be good, the heat having a longer 
passage through the wall, and the wind outside cannot puff 
the smoke down further than the bend. The inside sur- 
face should be perfectly smooth, which will prevent the 
accumulation of soot. 

10. The ceilings should be only moderately high, as it 
is difficult to heat rooms with high ceilings, except with an 
enormous expenditure of fuel. 

11. The bedrooms should be roomy, not less than twelve 
by twelve feet if possible, with ceilings at least eight feet 
high, and well ventilated. Sleeping apartments should 
never be placed on the ground-floor when it is possible to 
avoid it. The unwholesome exhalations which affect the 
atmosphere are more concentrated near the surface of the 
earth. Dr. Rush observed, during the prevalence of 
yellow fever in Philadelphia, that those who occupied 
apartments in the third story were far less liable to attacks 
tl)an those who resided lower. 

12. The best woods for the different apartments are: 
oak, ash and yellow pine for the kitchen ; oak for the 
dining-room ; butternut for the sitting-room, parlor and 
library ; oak and black walnut for the main hall ; curly 
maple for the bath-room ; chestnut for the principal 
sleeping room, and ash, maple and birch for the other 
cliaiubers. A very handsome wainscoting may be made 
from alternate strips of light and dark curly maple. 

13. As a protection against fire lay a flooring of thin 
sheet iron over the joists and the wood upon that, and 
sheathe the stairs with the same material. This is the ad- 
vice of the eminent sculptor, Hiram Powers, who says that 
dip'ing the thirty-four years of his residence in Florence, 



48 JEI03IE COMFORTS. 

Italy, lie never knew of a single house being eonsumed by 
fire, because there all the floors, above and below, arc 
covered by thin brick tiles, which prevent ventilation, and 
a fire cannot rise and burst into flames. A Boston chemist 
recommends that in all Avooden buildings, the wood should 
be covered with coarse mortar. He says the fire fiend 
craves light wood-work, loosely arranged, and full of draft 
cliannels. Let him find everything plugged solid with 
mortar. 

14. Have your water pipes made of rubber-lined tubing, 
which, though patented, is furnished at a very reasona- 
ble price at the Paschal Iron V^orks, in Philadel])hia. 
"Deceive ourselves as we may," says Dr. Bellows, ^^ there 
is no uxitcr incapable of acting on lend, or zinc, or copper 
under some circumstances, and these metals should never be 
used for or connected with service pipe; and the sooner 
the people fully understand this fact the better. But how 
shall we protect ourselves in the meantime ? It takes a 
long time for the most palpable truths to get control of 
corporations, proverbially conservative. Meantime we 
should never use water to drink or for cooking that has 
stood for any length of time in the pipes, and never use at 
all for these purposes water that has come from a leaden or 
zinc-lined cistern." 

15. Inside water-closets should be connected, by means 
of a pipe, with the flue of a chimney, which will carry off 
their gases and prevent noxious exhalations. If this be 
not practicable, they should be placed again.st the outside 
wall, where there is a Avindow which opens into a yard or 
unobstructed space. This window should be loft partly 
open at night, for it is then, even more than during the 
day, that tlie close, unhealthy air from a water-closet per- 



HO USE-PLANIflNG. 



49 



varies a house, unless some aperture for escape is pro- 
vided,* 

16. Have a closet wherever a recess in the masonry may 
aiford space for one. A dwelling can hardly have too 
many closets, and women especially appreciate the comfort 
and advantage of having plenty of these convenient recep- 
tacles for old clothes and dirt. 

Lastly : It is an important precaution to have all the 
drains properly trapped, not forgetting rain-water pipes 
where they enter into underground drains. These are a 
frequent source of bad smells and malaria, and from a 
neglect of this precaution, and the want of cleanliness in 



* Man's ingenuity seems to be 
equal to the achievement of most 
difficult things, except the proper 
construction and arrangement of 
necessary houses and water-closets. 

In the country these conveniences 
are generally located so far from 
the dwelling that they are decidedly 
inconvenient, and women are com- 
pelled to trudge to them through 
storm and exposure, to the injury of 
their health and the loss of their 
modesty. Many for this reason do 
not attend to the demands of nature 
with that regularity the mainten- 
ance of health requires, and thus 
the stupidity of country designers 
is often the cause of much suffering 
and probably the loss of many 
lives. 

In the cities, water-closets inside 
of dwellings become, from faulty con- 
struction, decided nuisances. Tiiey 
are continually out of repair, and 
often emit a noisome odor that is 
4 



far from being wliolesome. Within 
a few years it has been discovered 
that dry earth possesses the remark- 
able property of not only deodoriz- 
ing the refuse of the human body, 
but converting it into an inoffensive 
material that can be handled as 
earth. Advantage has been taken 
of this discovery for the construc- 
tion of EARTH-CLOSETS, which dis- 
pense with the machinery of water- 
closets and the vaults of privies. 
The apparatus resembles a com- 
mode, with a vibrating hopper, on 
wliicii the pulverized earth is 
placed, and a movable hod to re- 
ceive the deposits. They are made 
either fixed or movable, and circu- 
lars giving directions for their use 
are easily obtainable in the princi- 
pal cities. Those who have used 
them commend them highly, and 
they seem a valuable addition to 
the resources for promoting comfort 
in the household. 



50 HOME COMFORTS. 

cellars, many a princely mansion has proved to be a pest- 
house to its owner. 

Novel Method of Heating and Cooling Rooms. 

Among the most important and desirable objects to be 
observed in the erection of a dwelling-house is a constant 
supply of pure and wholesome air. Mr. Dwyer,* an Amer- 
ican architect, recommends a Reciprocating Furnace and 
Befrigerator, by means of which rooms may be warmed in 
winter and cooled in summer. He says, " The principle I 
would apply is the well-known philosophical law of tem- 
perature, viz., that warm air ascends and cold air descends. 
For this purpose I would construct a furnace in every 
cellar, surrounded with an air chamber with a current of 
water circulating through it to prevent its becoming too 
dry. The air thus purified and warmed, I would convey 
to every room in the house it was desirable to warm, by 
tubes leading to a refrigerator in the attic. These tubes I 
would close in the middle opposite each room, with an 
opening both above and below it. Supposing it is winter ; 
I would unfasten the lower opening and aduiit the warm 
air from the chamber in the cellar, until the room was of 
an agreeable warmth. In summer I would close the lower 
opening and open the upper one. In the refrigerator in 
the garret, I would place a quantity of ice daily, the cool 
air from which descending the tubes, would enter the 
rooms and keep them at any requisite temperature. Thus, 
in the warmest days in summer, a refreshing coolness can 

* Mr. Dwyer has made a spe- cumstances. He furnishes designs 

cialty of economic cottage building, for log houses that could be erected 

and has published two books to aid at an expense not much exceeding 

Western pioneers in the construe- fifty dollars, 
tion of houses suited to their cir- 



SELECTING WALL-PAPER. 51 

be maintained at the daily expense of a little ice — the fur- 
nace in the cellar and the refrigerator in the attic recipro- 
cating with each other." 

Suggestions on Wall-Paper and Interior Decoration. 

The ornamenting of apartments with hangings and 
coloring involves so many points of nice consideration and 
artistic effect, that very few painters or paper-hangers un- 
derstand them. Where expense is not an object, a genuine 
artist should be called in that the owner may have the 
benefit of a trained and cultivated taste. If a master in his 
profession, he will have a preference for God's favorite 
colors, green and blue; and for the dining-room of a fine 
mansion he will probably recommend that the carpet be of 
ultramarine blue, with a broad border of green oak leaves, 
and that the walls be covered with dark green velvet in 
panels; and the carved oak chairs covered to match. Each 
of the princij)al rooms, he will probably suggest, should be 
decorated and furnished according to some dominant color, 
that it may be known by a distinctive title, as the green 
room, the crimson room, blue room, etc. 

But as we are not gathering information for the benefit 
of the wealthy and luxurious, but for those who are satis- 
fied with comfortable homes, we would remark that the 
first consideration before purchasing wall-paper for any de- 
scription of house, large or small, is to note the supply of 
light in the rooms and their dimensions. If the view be 
north, northeast or northwest, or due east, the general tone 
of coloring should be positively warm. Blues, greens, and 
all shaded colors which involve any predominant use of 
blues, must be avoided. In such aspects the choice should 
tend towards reds, and all their various combinations 



52 HOME COMFORTS. 

with yellow. As the aspect approaches east and west, so 
the color should verge towards yellow rather than red 
tints. In an eastern aspect tints of light yellow, lemon 
colors, etc., are always effective and cheerful.* 

Another point to be looked to, and which has an im- 
portant bearing on the selection of wall-paper, is whether 
it is to form a decoration in itself, or whether it is to be- 
come a mere background for pictures. In the latter case 
the paper can hardly be too subdued in tone. Very light 
drab, silver gray, and dark maroon (with a pattern of the 
same color glazed running through it), and two shades of 
the same color are all sufficient for one paper. AYhere 
water colors are hung, embossed white or cream color, with 
a very small diaper or spot of gold, will not be amiss. As 
a rule, the simplest patterns are the best for every situation, 



* A writer in the London "Athe- 
n?etim " remarks : "The supply of 
liglit, the size of the room, and its 
purpose, appear to be tlie chief cir- 
cumstances which ouglit to regulate 
the strength or depth of the colors 
to be used. Where the light is 
strong, unobscured and plentitul, 
the tone of the coloring may be full ; 
on the other hand, where the sup- 
ply of light is small, the tone of the 
coloring should be light. Under a 
strong and abundant light, full- 
toned colors preserve their bright- 
ness and distinctive character, but 
wiien the light is feeble and the 
supply of it limited, they become 
dull and gloomy. Full-toned colors 
lessen the apparent size of the room ; 
light coloring enlarges it. If you 
wisli to make your room appear as 



large as possible, then exclude dark 
coloring not only on the large sur- 
faces, but even in the patterns of the 
paper-hangings, and in the mould- 
ings and ornamental parts. Tlie 
nature of the use to which the room 
is applied should also influence the 
decision as to the tone of the color- 
ing. If the room is used mostly by ar- 
tificial light, which, being less pure 
than daylight, materially modifies 
the appearance of most colors — 
much or little, according to their 
strength — then keep tlie coloring 
light. If on the other hand it is a 
room for occupation during day- 
light, then the tone of coloring 
must be deep. Red and green with 
black appear dark and grave ; with 
white they appear gay." 



SELECTING WALLPAPEB. 53 

but where the eye lias to rest upon tlie surface of tlie wall 
alone, a greater j)lay of line in the patterns may become 
advisable. 

Paper-hangings, according to Eastlake, should in no 
case be allowed to cover the whole space of a M'all from 
skirting to ceiling. He says, " a ' dado,' or plinth space of 
plain color, either in paper or distemper, should be left to 
a height of two or three feet from the floor. This may be 
separated from the diapered paper above by a light wood 
moulding, stained or gilded. A second space or frieze left 
just below the ceiling, and filled with arabesque ornament, 
painted on a distemper ground, is always effective, but of 
course involves some additional expense. The most dreary 
method of decorating the ^A'all of a sitting-room is to cover 
it all over with an unrelieved pattern of monotonous 
design." 

Nothing is more difficult than to estimate the effect and 
intensity of colors, when spread over a large surface, from 
the simple inspection of a pattern-book. The purchaser 
will frequently find that a paper which he has ordered will 
look either darker or lighter when hung than it appeared 
in the piece. For this reason it is advisable to suspend 
several lengths of the paper side by side in the room for 
which it is intended, and it is only by this means that a 
correct idea of the ultimate effect can be arrived at. 

How to Clean Paper-Hangings. 
To clean paper-hangings, take small pieces of stale bread, 
about two days old, commence at the top of the room, and 
with the crust wipe lightly downward about half a yai'd at 
each stroke, till the upper part of the hangings is completely 
cleaned all around, and so continue until the whole is gone 



64 HOME COMFOBTS. 

over. Tins operation, if carefully performed, will frequently 
make old paper look almost equal to new. Great caution 
must be used not to rub the paper hard, nor to attempt clean- 
ing it the cross or horizontal way. The dirty part of the 
bread must each time be cut away, and the pieces renewed 
as often as at all necessary. 

How to Make a Permanent Whitewash, 

Make the whitewash in the ordinary manner, then place 
it over a fire and bring it to a boil. Then stir in to each 
gallon a tablespoonful of powdered alum, a half pint of 
good flour paste, and a half pound of glue dissolved in 
water, while it is boiling. 

This wash, it is said, nearly equals paint, and the ex- 
pense is trifling. 




CHAPTEE III. 

THE ART OF HOUSE-FURNISHING. 

"Whatever has nothing to do is a positive incumbrance ; and following 
out this rule, the greater part of the ornaments introduced only add to 
the defects of a design that has nothing of elegance, strength or utility to 
recommend it to our attention, Plad it any of these qualities it would 
not require such an oppressive weiglit of meaningless scrolls and figures 
to secure a favorable notice ; and any resort to this method of hiding de- 
fects is as unbecoming as it would be for a lady to wear a brooch that 
fastened no portion of her dress, or a chain of gold without a watch or 
some other article of value attached to it." — Mason. 



i 



T is the fashion ©f certain art critics to condemn all 
modern furniture and upholstery as inferior not only 
^^ in design but in substantial excellence to that made 
by hand in the Mediseval age. This, with men like 
Ruskin and Eastlake, is carried to the extreme of cynicism, 
but it is, nevertheless, true that since the introduction of 
steam-mills, and the abolition of long apprenticeships 
among cabinetmakers, the markets are overstocked with 
vast quantities of inferior furniture which it is not good 
economy for any one to purchase. 

A century ago the fashionable woods for furniture were 
ebony and rosewood ; at a later date, and until recently, 
mahogany was the favorite ; now walnut is more in demand 
than all the others combined. Poplar is used largely by 
cabinetmakers as an underwood for veneering, and maple for 
chamber furniture ; while bass, or white wood, is em])loyed 



66 H03IE COMFOETS. 

])rincipally in making cheap, painted bedroom suits, and is 
said to be as durable as finer woods. Oak is used to some 
extent for dining-room and library furniture, but the 
American oak is a very different article from that of 
Europe, being not only more difficult to work but more 
liable to warp. 

What to Avoid in Buying Furniture. 

In selecting furniture the cynical critics to whom we 
have referred caution buyers not to attach the least impor- 
tance to any recommendation a salesman may make on 
matters of taste. "If he says one form of chair is 
stronger than another form ; or that the covering of one 
sofa will wear better than that which is used for another, 
you may believe him, because on that point he can judge, 
and it is to his interest that you should be correctly informed 
so far. But on the subject of taste his opinion is not likely 
to be worth more, but rather less, than that of his customers, 
for the plain reason that the nature of his occupation can 
have lefit him little time to form a taste at all. He neither 
made the furniture in his shop nor superintended its design. 
His business is simply to sell it, and it will be found that 
his notions of beauty are generally kept subservient to this 
object. In other words, he will praise each article in turn, 
exactly as he considers your attention is attracted to it with 
a view to purchase. If he has any guiding principles 
of selection, they are chiefly based on two considerations, 
viz., the relative price of his goods and the social position 
or wealth of those customers in whose eyes they find favor." 

Secondly : They advise the selection of furniture which is 
simple in its general form and free from extravagant con- 
tour or unnecessary curves. The tendency of the present 



HOUSE-FUBNISHING. 57 

age in upholstery is to run into curves. Chairs are fre- 
quently curved in such a manner as to insure the greatest 
amount of ugliness with the least possible comfort. The 
backs of sofas are curved so as to be manifestly incon- 
venient; either too high in one place or too low in another 
to accommodate the shoulders of a sitter. Drawing-room 
tables are curved in every direction, perpendicularly and 
horizontally, and are therefore inconvenient to sit at and 
always rickety. This system of ornamentation is called 
shaping. It always involves additional expense in manu- 
facture, and therefore by avoiding "shaped" articles of 
furniture the public will not only gain in an artistic point 
of view but save their money. 

Thirdly : There is a notion very prevalent among people 
who have given themselves but little trouble to think at all 
on the matter, that to insure grace in furniture, it must be 
made in a flimsy, fragile manner. Thus we constantly hear 
the expression " light and elegant " applied to a set of 
drawing-room chairs which look as if they must sink be- 
neath the weight of the first middle-aged gentleman who 
used them. " Now lightness and elegance," says a critic, 
"are agreeable qualities in their way, and under certain 
conditions of design art should be aimed at. For instance, 
the treatment of mere surface ornament, such as painted 
arabesques, etc., or of details purely decorative and useless, 
as the filagree gold of a lady's earring, may well be of 
this character ; but objects intended for real and daily 
service, such as a table which has to bear the weight of 
heavy books or dishes, or a sofa on which we may recline 
at full length, ought not to look light and elegant, but 
strong and comely ; for comeliness, whether in nature or 
art, is by no means incompatible with strength." 



58 HOME COMFORTS. ■ 

What to Choose in Buying Furniture. 

In the choice of furniture the first and principal qualifi- 
cation is its usefulness or fitness, or, in other words, the 
combination of convenience, ease and propriety. Furniture 
is made to be used, and a couch upon which you cannot lie, 
or a table from which you cannot eat, or a chair upon which 
you cannot sit, is neither useful nor ornamental. In select- 
ing furniture also the style of the house, the room and 
domestic surroundings must be constantly borne in mind, 
and especially that the size of the furniture will be adapted 
to the proportions of the apartment for which it is destined. 
To illustrate, a buffet, or any other article of furniture of 
large size, which might adorn a rich man's mansion, would 
look ridiculous and out of place in a poor man's dwelling. 

Passing from general principles to details, we would 
remark that in selecting chairs it will be extremely difficult 
to find those that are comfortable and strong yet elegant. 
This is especially true of drawing-room chairs. Either the 
backs will be found too straight, or too high, or full of pain- 
ful projections, or the springs too weak, and, except those 
with arms, it will be a task to find in all the cabinet-shops 
a comfortable yet handsome chair or sofa. With regard to 
coverings the most elegant and the most costly are satin 
brocade and silk damask. The latter differs from the 
brocade, which is all silk, in being woven even on the sur- 
face instead of having the figures raised. The most service- 
able and most durable furniture-covering is plush, and it 
is always fashionable. 

Dining-room chairs should be high enough to bring the 
diners well above their plates. The high chair occupied 
by a carver gives him an advantage. The dining-room 



HOUSE-FUENISHING. 59 

table should be large enough to accommodate the dishes 
without crowding. 

Bedroom chairs should be substantial, with low seats and 
hijrh backs. The cane-seat chairs that come with chamber 
sets of cottage furniture are not well suited for use in 
bedrooms. With respect to washstands, those should be 
selected which have high splash-boards to protect the wall, 
and which are oiled or painted, not varnished. 

In selecting bureaus, or chests of drawers, it is important 
to select those which have drawers not exceeding five or six 
inches in depth ; for every one knows the inconvenience of 
being obliged to delve down below innumerable strata of 
clothes to find some article of clothing which is wanted in a 
hurry, and by the additional height gained in saving depth, 
another drawer may be added to the set. Bedsteads can 
now be obtained of all kinds and sizes, in wood or metal, 
and those with a canopy and head-curtain, made of cretonne, 
chintz or damask, add much to the picturesqueness of a 
modern bedroom. 

Combination Furniture. 
During the last quarter of a century the ingenuity of 
cabinetmakers has been directed to the production of articles 
that serve a twofold purpose, or what may be called com- 
bination furniture. A round table has been made which at a 
touch can be converted into a comfortable arm-chair and 
writing-desk. High chairs for children have been made 
which in a minute can be converted into a low chair and 
play-table. Ottomans are so constructed that thej can be 
changed into two small settees and two arm-chairs. An 
arm-chair is made that can readily be converted into an 
invalid couch and a library chair, the back of which turns 
over to form a pair of steps. At the New York Crystal 



60 HOME COMFORTS. 

Palace in 1853 a cabinetmaker exhibited a palace secretary 
"sviiich combined a bedstead, writing-desk, bookcase, wash- 
stand, gentleman's wardrobe, medicine-drawers, secret silver 
closet, dressing-bureau, ladies' wardrobe and secret jewelry- 
case, the whole surmounted by a musical and alarm clock. 
This combination furniture, if well made, is often very 
useful, especially for rooms of narrow dimensions. 

Pictures and Picture Frames. 

A room, however elegantly furnished, looks naked and 
cold without pictures on the walls. They must not, how- 
ever, be too numerous, and a few good ones are better than 
a hundred poor pictures. The proper height for hanging 
a picture is given at five feet six inches from the floor to its 
centre, or so that the eye can fall upon the lower part. Art 
critics recommend not only that oil pictures should be hung 
by themselves, but to separate water-colors, drawings, 
])hotographs, and engravings. Each may be beautiful in 
itself, but to place them together is to destroy the effect of 
ail. The print will look cold and harsh by the side of the 
water-color sketch, the sketch will seem unreal and gaudy 
by the side of the photograph. Keep them all apart — if 
not in separate rooms, at least on separate walls. Never 
hang glazed drawings, where it can be avoided, opposite a 
window. The sheen of the glass reflects the daylight, and 
annihilates the effect of the picture behind it. Take care 
that your picture-cord either matches or harmonizes with 
the color of the wall-paper behind it. Some use wire in- 
stead of cord, because the former is almost invisible at a 
little distance, but this seems a disadvantage. 

Never suspend a framed picture, however small, from 
one nail. This may seem a trifle, but, independently of the 



HOUSE-FUENISHIHiG. 61 

consideration of safety, the effect produced by two points 
of support is infinitely better. The triangular space en- 
closed by a picture-cord stretched between three points 
must always be inharmonious Avith the horizontal and 
vertical lines of a room. 

Marble Tops on Furniture. 

The use of marble by the cabinet-makers is increasing, 
notwithstanding some critics contend that marble is fit only 
for tombstones and should be rejected from the interior 
and exterior of dwellings, and very few fine tables are now 
made without marble tops, either carved or plain. The 
Italian is the favorite variety, and of this the purest white 
is preferred by most persons, though the dark veined is 
usually harder and more durable. Purchasers in choosing 
should take care to observe that the marble has a good 
metallic ring when struck, which shows that it is capable 
of resisting the action of acids and grease. When stains 
have come upon a marble top, the following is the best 
recipe for extracting them : 

Saturate the soiled places frequently with j3?ire spirits of 
benzine, which will penetrate the marble and carry the 
grease from the surface. This is about the only remedy 
known, and will answer for every kind of marble. If 
soiled with wine or acids, and the surface is decomposed, 
scrub with a strong solution of soda, and afterwards rub 
briskly with whiting-paste on a woollen rag. If the edges 
are chipped, file off the roughest part, and then rub with 
cuttle-fish until smooth; afterwards polish with whiting 
as above. 

The following is said to be a very valuable receipt for 

MARBLE CEMENT: 
5 



62 HOME COMFOBTS. 

" Take plaster of Paris and soak it in a saturated solution 
of alum, then bake the two in an oven, tiie same as gypsum 
is baked, to make it plaster of Paris, after which they are 
ground to powder. It is then used as wanted ; being 
mixed with water, like plaster, and applied. It sets into a 
very hard composition, capable of taking a very high 
polish. It may be mixed with various coloring minerals, 
to produce a cement of any color capable of imitating 
marble. This is a very rare receipt, worth twenty dollars 
to many readers, who can prepare it for themselves." 

To Take Bruises out of Furniture. 
Wet the part with warm water ; double a piece of brown 
paper five or six times, soak it and lay it on the place ; 
apply on that a hot flat-iron till the moisture is evaporated. 
If the bruise be not gone, repeat the process. After two 
or three applications the dent or bruise will be raised level 
with the surface. 

To Clean Mirrors, Looking-Glasses, etc. 

Take a soft sponge, wash it well in clean water, and 
squeeze it as dry as possible; dip it into some spirits of 
wine and rub over the glass; then have some powder-blue 
tied up in a rag, dust it over your glass, and rub it lightly 
and quickly with a soft cloth ; afterward finish with a silk 
handkerchief. 

To Clean and Tighten Cane-seat Chairs. 
Turn up the chair-bottom, and with hot water and a 
sponge wash the cane-work, so that it may be thoroughl} 
soalvcd. Should it be dirty, use a little soap. Let it dry 
in the air, and it will be as tight and firm as when new, 
provided the cane be not broken. 



HOUSE-FUJiNISHIJ^G. 63 

To Take out Oil or Grease from Clotli. 

Drop on the spot some oil of tartar, or salt of worm- 
wood, which has been left in a damp place until it is fluid ; 
then immediately w^ash the place with lukewarm soft 
water, and then with cold water, and the spot will disap- 
pear. 

This will be found very useful, says Stokes, in his 
Cabinet- Maker, and by proceeding as above, every spot 
of grease in cloth will be completely taken out. 

To Kemove Stains in Tables. 

Wash the surface with stale beer or vinegar ; the stains 
will then be removed by rubbing them with a rag dipped 
in spirits of salts. To repolish, proceed as you would do 
wdth new work. 

If the work be not stained, wash the surface with clean 
spirits of turpentine, and repolish it with furniture-oil. 

How to Cement Broken China, etc. 

Stokes says : Beat the whites of eggs well to a froth ; 
let them settle ; add soft, grated or sliced cheese and quick- 
lime ; beat them well together, and apply a little to the 
broken edges. This cement will endure both fire and 
water. 

Another good receipt, and which is nearly colorless, is 
the following : 

Dissolve half an ounce of gum acacia in a wineglass 
of boiling water ; add plaster of Paris sufficient to form 
a thick paste, and apply it wuth a brush to the parts 
required to be cemented together. 



64 HOME COMFOETS. 

Buying Carpets. 

In buying a carpet, the first point to be regarded is its 
rnpacity to Avear well without becoming shabby. It is a 
waste of money to buy a carpet of loose texture. If a 
ciicap floor-covering be desired, sew two strij^s of the 
cheapest cotton cloth of the size of the room, and tack the 
edges to the floor. Then paper the cloth witli any sort of 
room paper, and after being well dried, give it two coats of 
varnish, and your floor-covering is complete. This can be 
washed like a carpet without injury, and on chambers or 
sleeping-rooms, where it will not meet with rough usage, 
it will last two years as good as new. Another mode of 
jiroviding a cheap carpeting is to have a handsome border 
around the room and floor-drugget in the centre, so ar- 
ranged as to seem to cover and protect a handsome carpet, 
when in reality it covers nothing but paper on the floor. 
Next to texture, the most desirable quality in a carpet is 
cheerfulness in figure and color. The most tasteful carpets 
are those made of various shades of the same color, or of 
all shades of two colors, such as salmon and yellow, or blue 
and buff, or salmon and green, or all shades of green or of 
brown. All very dark shades should be brown or green, 
but not black. Avoid, in selecting colors, those which have 
black threads, as they are always rotten. 

But while aiming at cheerfulness, care should be taken to 
avoid those designs which are remarkable for over-brilliancy 
of color. They are apt to be inharmonious with the rest of 
the furniture, and rich, oriental dyes frequently have a del- 
eterious effect on tlie material which they stain. The 
crimson used in Scinde rugs, for instance, is especially de- 
structive, and the portions dyed with this color wear out 
long before the rest. The dull, Indian red is far more en- 



HOUSE-FUBNISHING. 65 

darino-, and is also more likely to blend well with the 
surrounding tints. 

Another precaution to be taken in buying carpets is to 
avoid large patterns, unless the room be of extraordinary 
diirtensious ; for large figures, both in wall-paper and car- 
pets, have a tendency to make rooms look smaller than they 
really are. About the best carpet that can be selected for 
oi'dinary drawing-rooms is a good Brussels, provided that 
the pattern is one that bears some resemblance to something 
in the world, and that in both figure and color it is cheerful. 
For a sitting-room a substantial three-ply carpet, of some 
medium dark pattern, but cheerful, is desirable. For bed- 
rooms the ingrains are suitable, but the pattern should be 
of soft colors, a prominent one of which should be green, 
and the figures flowers and foliage. 

In laying down carpets the most economical way is not 
to fit them into the recesses of the room, the portions un- 
covered by the carpet being painted in oil or covered with 
oil-cloth, baize, or drugget. A square carpet, it is said, 
may be changed eight times, and an oblong one four times, 
when not fitted into recesses, whereas one fitted to the room 
cannot be altered in position, except the apartment be sym- 
metrical. Some authorities insist that bed-room cai'pets 
should never be tacked down, so that they may be taken 
up easily and frequently. They also direct that carpets 
" should be sewn on the wrong side, with double waxed 
thread, and with the ball-stitch. Take a stitch on the 
breadth next you, pointing the needle towards you, and 
then take a stitch on the other breadth, pointing the needle 
from you. Draw the thread tightly, but not so as to 
pucker. Bind the tchole of the carpet with carpet-binding, 
and nail it with tacks, having bits of leather under the heads." 



66 H03IE COMFORTS. 

When a carpet begins to wear, its position should be 
clianged so as to wear eqnally, and when mended, a needle 
should be used, and proper colored worsteds, as in em- 
broidery. Before sweeping carpets M'ith a broom it is best 
to sprinkle them over with damp tea-leaves or Indian 
meal, and Avhen ready, the Scientific American gives the 
following directions for 

Sweeping Carpets. 

Place the broom upon the carpet in an inclined position, 
with the handle inclining forwards ; drawing it quickly 
over the surface in this position, and scarcely raising it 
from the floor, will prevent the raising of very much dust. 
In order to do the work effectually, however, the motion 
should not be given by long strokes, but by a quick succes- 
sion of short ones. It would be worth Mty dollars to any 
housekeeper, who does not understand the business, to see 
these two modes (one holding the broom upright and the 
other aslant) distinctly performed. By the former, or 
thrusting mode, the coarser dirt, or that which does not 
rise in the air, is shot ahead several feet, and spread over a 
large surface ; by the latter, or drawing mode, it is kept 
more compactly together, something like the winnow of 
hay in the meadow. The broom, instead of being bent 
around like a hook, as above stated, is kept straight and 
smooth, and lasts much longer. 

The sweeping should commence from the upper end of 
the room and proceed toward the fire-place, or the lower 
end of the room, according to the pile of the carpet. The 
sweeping must go with and not against the pile. When 
the sweeping is done, the chimney and other ornaments are 
to be removed, and their places dusted. Clean soap and 



HOUSE-FUBNISHIN'G. 67 

water should occasionally be used with a flannel cloth to the 
marble chimney pieces and slabs. The various articles of 
ornament should be carefully wi}3ed or cleaned, and then 
replaced. The ledges, panels of doors, window-frames, 
mirrors, chairs, and tables, etc., should be dusted and 
restored to their places. Picture-frames must be dusted 
with a feather broom, and not with a linen duster. 

If a broom be inserted every week in boiling suds, it will 
be toughened and last much longer, will not cut the carpet, 
and will sweep as elastic as a new broom. 

Moths in carpets may be destroyed, both worms and eggs, 
by spreading a wet sheet on the carpet, and passing a hot 
flat-iron over it quickly. The steam, it is said, destroys 
them. 

To Clean and Brighten Brussels Carpets. 

Take a fresh beef-gall, break it into a clean pan ; pour 
one-half into a very clean bucket, and nearly fill it with 
lukewarm water : take a clean, coarse cloth, and having 
brushed the carpet well, rub it hard with the cloth thor- 
oughly wet with the gall water; do a small piece at a 
time, have ready a dry coarse cloth, and rub the carpet dry ; 
so proceed until the whole carpet is cleaned. 

A few drops of carbonate of ammonia, in a small quan- 
tity of warm rain-water, will change, if carefully applied, 
discolored spots upon carpets, and indeed all spots, whether 
produced by acids or alkalies. If one has the misfortune 
to have a carpet injured by whitewash, this will immedi- 
ately restore it. 

Oil Cloths. 

In buying an oil cloth for a floor, endeavor to obtain one 
that has been manufactured for several years ; as the longer 



63 HOIfE COMFOETS. 

it lias been made, previous to use, the better it will wear, 
iVoni the paint becoming hard and durable. An oil cloth 
tiiat has been made within the year is scarcely worth buy- 
in-'-, as the paint will be defaced in a very little time. An 
oil cloth should never be scrubbed with a brush ; but after 
being first swept it should be cleaned by washing with a 
large soft cloth and lukewarm or cold water. On no ac- 
count use soap, or take water that is hot, as either of them 
will bring off the paint. When it has dried you may 
sponge it over with milk, which will l)righten and preserve 
the colors ; then wipe it with a soft, dry cloth. 

Moths in Fumiture. 

Within a few years it has been discovered that there is 
a peculiar kind of moth, which infests furniture, destroying 
alike in summer and winter. It penetrates sofas or chairs 
between the backs or seats, or under the seats, where an 
opening in the springs permits a path of exit. The only 
eil'ectual preventive known is to remove the furniture 
from the walls frequently, and whisk it well under the 
seats to prevent the lodgment of the fly. The usual reme- 
dies of Cayenne pepper, Scotch snuff, camphor, turpentine, 
etc., avail little against the furniture moth. They may be 
removed by taking off the muslin from under the seats, and 
from the outside ends and backs, and exposing it to the air. 
A whisk, or the open hand, will beat all off, and may cause 
their absence, as they do not like to be disturbed. W^hisk 
well twice a week, and in furniture as yet free from moths, 
which is to be left without attention during the summer, 
protection may be afforded by camphor in small bags, or 
^patchouli highly concentrated. 



CHAPTER IV. 

HOUSEHOLD CONVENIENCES NOT IN GENERAL USE. 

" It is sometimes said that there are less improvements in the art of 
housekeeping than in any other. It is quite clear tliat there are not 
enough of them, and those which are made are not generally adopted. 
Let ns refer now to what we regard as an improvement in the little art 
of shelling beans. The old method was making use of the thumb and 
fingers ; then the use of a needle to prepare the pod to open readily. 
Now the method is to pour upon the pods a quantity of scalding water, 
and the beans slip very easily from the pod. By pouring scalding water 
on apples, the skin may be easily slipped off, and much labor saved." — 

KOBINSON. 

'OME one has remarked that it would be better for a 
lady to give up some expensive article in the parlor, 
and apply the money thus saved for kitchen conve- 
niences, than to have a stinted supply where the 
most labor is to be performed. If our countrywomen 
would devote more to comfort and convenience and less to 
show, it would be a great improvement. A full supi)ly of 
all conveniences in the kitchen and the cellar, and a place 
appointed for each, very much facilitates domestic labor, 
and for want of this, much vexation and loss of time are 
occasioned while seeking vessels in use or in cleaning those 
employed for various purposes. 

An experienced housekeeper has also remarked that you 
must have plenty of kitchen towels, or the chances are ten to 
one that the first hired girl you have will take a damask 
tablecloth to wipe the dishes and a fine wiping towel for a 

69 



70 HOME COMFOBTS. 

pot-cloth. The best material for kitchen cloths is the 
ordinary American tow linen, and it is worth far more than 
the im})orted crash, which almost everybody uses. 

It is a great economy of time and labor to have the arti- 
cles in constant use in cooking and housework arranged in 
compact form and close together. In the cook's galley of 
a large steamship, every article used in cooking for two 
hundred persons is often contained in a space not over nine 
feet square, and so arranged that with one or two steps the 
cook can reach all that he uses. Around the sink is prob- 
ably the best place to arrange the shelving and compart- 
ments for holding the articles in constant use, such as 
boxes for holding Indian meal, rye and wheat flour, shelf- 
boxes for scouring materials, dish-cloths, and can-pails for 
sugars. AYooden can-pails are said to be the best articles in 
which to keep sugars, both white and brown, and a tin can 
with a tight movable cover and a cork in the spout is the 
best for molasses. 

A well-equipped kitchen will contain, among its iron 
ware, pots of different sizes, a long iron fork with a handle, 
a large and small gridiron with grooved bars, a bake-pan, 
two skillets of different sizes, and a flat skillet for frying, 
a griddle and a waffle iron, tin and iron bread-pans, two 
ladles of different sizes, a skimmer, a toasting iron and 
two teakettles of different sizes, of which the handles do 
not lie flat on the sides of the kettle, for they are very in- 
convenient, and burn the hands when heated, as we know 
by experience. Portable furnaces of iron or clay are very 
useful in summer for washing, ironing and stewing. A 
spice box and a mill for grinding coffee, strong knives and 
forks, a sharp carving-knife, an iron cleaver and board, a 
fine saw, steelyards, chopping tray and knife, knife sharp- 



HOUSEHOLD CONVENIENCES. 71 

ener, iron spoons, flat irons, ruffle iron and crimping iron, 
are all desirable. A kitchen should be also supplied with 
tinware and tubs, pails and other wooden ware, and bas- 
kets of various sizes for clothes, marketing, eggs and 
fruits. 

In buying tinware and kitchen utensils generally, it is 
economy to purchase the best at first. Tlie very best 
double plate tinware will last a lifetime, while the poor 
cheap kind will not last a year. "We would also caution 
housekeepers against the low-priced earthenware, " particu- 
larly that Mhich looks like the substance of a common 
brick when broken. The solid, strong stoneware costs 
perhaps a quarter more, but it is worth ten times as much 
as the other," 

Assuming, however, that our readers are familiar with 
the articles that are regarded as indispensable by all house- 
keepers for kitchen service w^e proceed to call their atten- 
tion to some 

Labor-Saving Contrivances not in General Use. 

The Stock-pot is a standard fixture in French kitchens, 
but it is little known in America, though its introduction 
Avould be a great and economical convenience. It is always 
kept simmering to receive trimmings of meat, bones, rem- 
nants of fowl or game — in short, to be a save-all for the 
conversion of worthless scraps into wholesome nutriment. 
Whether flavored with vegetables or not, the contents of 
the stock-pot will prove invaluable, both to furnish occa- 
sional basins of soup, and to assist in compounding all sorts 
of made dishes, where something better than mere water is 
required to moisten them. If the odds and ends of the 
kitchen do not supply enough materials, a few coarse 
fresh bits of meat from the butcher will easily make up 



72 HOME COMFOBTS. 

for the deficiency. "Broth/' says Ude, "is tlie founda- 
tion of cookery." 

Larding-pins or ]arding-nee(?/es, for introducing strips of 
bacon into veal, the breasts of fowl, calf's liver, etc., and 
iron shewers, for trussing meat and poultry previous to 
cooking, are very common utensils in French kitchens, but 
so little is known of them in America that it is probable 
our cooks would leave the skewers in the fowl or joint 
when placed on the table, to puzzle and confound the 
carver. 

Two or tliree tvhitewood boards, about twenty inches or 
two feet square, on which to chip vegetables, cooked or 
uncooked, meat, suet, sweet herbs, etc., are not too many 
to have. They are both neater and more convenient than 
the surface of a deal table, which is generally used for that 
])urpose. 

The American oven, or kitchen, for cooking small 
things before the fire, is very highly commended by 
English writers on cookery. 

The French Bain-marie, or hot loater bath, is a very 
useful utensil for stewing gently without the possibility of 
burning, for warming up cold dishes, and keeping things 
hot for travellers, sportsmen and professional people. It 
is a stew-pan with a double bottom, containing water be- 
tween the fire and the inner bottom. Turtle, ox-tail, and 
such like soups, when once made, should always be heated 
up again in a bain-marie, which not only saves the meat, 
etc., from sticking to the bottom, but preserves the delicacy 
of the flavor. 

T\\e frying-pans commonly sold are much too shallow to 
fry meats or fish by i:>lunging them into hot fat, which is 
the French idea of frying. Every kitchen should possess 
a frying-pan not less than six inches deep, oval, not 



HOUSEHOLD CONVEmENCES. 73 

round, and long enough to accommodate a respectablc-sizcl 
fish. 

Scales and weights to proportion the quantities of ingre- 
dients used, and to verify tlie weight of goods received into 
the house, are not as common in American kitcliens as tliey 
ought to be. 

Pasty pans are a useful article for making a savory and 
delicious preparation of meat and j^otatoes. They consist 
of a circular pan with a perforated lid, having a valve pipe 
screwed on to it. The meat is placed at the bottom of the 
pan, with seasoning, butter, and a little water, and the 
perforated plate is laid over it. Some mashed potatoes 
mixed with milk are next arranged on this plate; filling 
up tlie whole space to the top of the tube, and finishing the 
surface in an ornamental manner. If carefully baked tlie 
potatoes will be covered with a delicate brown coat, and 
retain all the savory steam arising from the meat. 

Bevohing gridirons are made, having fluted bars lined 
with enamel. The gravy that flows from the meat runs 
into the fluted bars, and thence into a small recej)- 
tacle in the middle of the handle, so preserving a nice 
quantity of the gravy. As the part on which the meat 
rests turns round, the necessity of frequently moving the 
meat is obviated. 

A novel egg boiler has been invented, to which the name 
of the "Whistler" has been given. It consists of a cylin- 
der in which tlie eggs are placed. Attached to the cylinder 
is a whistle which, acted on by the steam, gives notice that 
the cooking of the eggs is completed, and renders it un- 
necessary to watch the process. 

A bronze egg steamer has recently been invented. A 
little water is poured in, the eggs placed in a frame inside, 
6 



74 HOME COMFOETS. 

and the spirit lamp being lighted, the steam cooks the 
eggs. It is egg-shaped, in bronze, and very neat. 

Several different kinds of egg beaters are to be had, but 
purchasers should remember that eggs should be beaten 
with a circular motion from right to left. 

Of cofee pots the number is so great, each possessing 
some point of excellence, that a selection is bewildering. 
One of the most useful styles, however, is tlie "Old 
Dominion Coffee Pot," made in Philadelphia. In this the 
ground coffee is placed in a strainer, forming the lower 
portion, and boiling water poured on it ; a condenser con- 
taining cold water is then placed over, forming the upper 
part ; the aroma-bearing vapor rises, is condensed, and re- 
turned into the coffee, the aroma being thus perfectly 
retained. 

Another plan forces the boiling water to filter through 
the coffee, carrying away the aroma, and leaving the bitter 
principle in the worthless grounds. 

An elegant but rather pretentious utensil is " The French 
Balance Coffee Machine," composed of two parts connected 
by a tube. The coffee being heated in one receiver, passes 
through the tube and strainer into the other perfectly clear 
and containing all the aroma. 

A very useful and at the same time neat coffee pot is 
" The Vienna Coffee Machine," especially for summer use. 
The water is poured in, and the coffee then placed in a 
strainer over it ; a spirit lamp is lighted under, and as the 
water boils it rises through the coffee and overflows into 
the main holder. This coffee pot swings on a stand, and a 
slight motion pours the coffee into the cup. Some shapes 
are very elegant. 

For roasting meat and game or poultry, which is always 
preferable to baking, a French turnspit is useful. In this 



HOUSEHOLD CONVENIENCES. 75 

the spit runs through an improved form of Dutch oven, 
and is kept revolving by machinery, which, when wound 
up, runs for about two hours, a gong calling the cook's 
attention when it stops. 

But the most useful meat-cooker for a family of any 
size is Warren's Cooker, the invention of a captain in the 
English navy. The principle is cooking by the heat of 
water and steam ; the meat being placed in a pot without 
water, which fits into a boiler and just touches the water, 
the steam from which encompasses the sides and rises by a 
passage into another chamber, in which puddings arc 
cooked, and heating a third, in which are vegetables, 
escapes through the lid. When cooked enough the 
meat is placed for about ten minutes in the oven to 
brown. 

The advantages are, that no meat juices evaporate in the 
cooking ; no trouble is needed in watching the meat after 
the water boils ; it cooks easily over a small gas jet, and 
the most inexperienced help can use it after once being 
shown. Fish and game it cooks in perfection. 

An economical way of using cold meat is to mince it, 
and a mincing knife with two or more blades, for a small 
family, is useful. For large families and hotels mincing 
machines are now made. 

Apple and peach pavers are great labor savers, and are 
now made to core in addition to paring. Raisin seeders 
of different kinds have been invented, and also cherry 
stoners. 

A little machine for slicing potatoes is an ingenious in- 
vention, and can be used for slicing beets and other similar 
vegetables. A graduated spring pushes the potato forward 
after each cut. 

In families where sausages are much appreciated, a 



76 HOME COMFOBTS. 

sausage machine, which can be purchased for a small sum, 
is desirable. It can also be used for chopping vegetables 
so that they will dissolve perfectly in soups and stews and 
afford many savory dishes. 

A pea shelter has been invented that will shell a peck of 
peas in ten minutes. The pea pods are thrown into a hop- 
])er, and after a handle has been moved backward and 
forward a few times, the pods foil out in front, while the 
j)eas pass into a drawer underneath. 

A tendon separator is j)ronounced by some to be the 
greatest boon ever conferred on unskilled carvers. Soyer 
says of it, " If it were more generally used there would be 
no more birds flying across the table in the face of guests; 
no more turkeys deposited in a lady's or gentleman's. lap; 
no more sjilashing of gravy to spoil satin dresses ; but all 
would be divided with the greatest facility and in the most 
elegant manner, and the poultry would look much better 
at table." 

Refrigerators are valuable articles of household con- 
venience not so much in general use as they ought to be. 
They serve for keeping meat wholesome, vegetables crisp, 
drinks of different kinds cool, milk from souring, butter 
solid, etc., etc ; but it should be remembered that an often 
renewed jug or open dish of lime-water adds much to their 
efliciency, absorbing the impure gases which meat, fish, 
etc., give oif at even a very low temperature ; and in pur- 
chasing a refrigerator be particular to choose one in which 
the ventilation is perfect. 

Portable refrigerators are now made, easily carried from 
room to room, and placed on the table at meals. 

Ice-cream freezers, too, are useful in many families, 
adding greatly to comfort at a small expenditure. Various 



HOUSEHOLD COJS^VENIEKCES. 77 

styles are made, each claiming a peculiar excellence; but 
the most simple are the most efficient. 

For the summer, gas cooking stoves are very desiral)le. 
Several kinds are now made, giving great heat witii small 
consumption of gas ; one — The Table Gas Stove — being 
especially useful. This connects with the ordinary gas 
burner by a flexible tube, will stand on the breakfast table, 
and boil sufficient coffee for an average family. It cannot 
be overturned, and the flame burns so well as not to soil 
the brightest tinware. 

A griddle greaser and scraper is a recent invention for 
saving lard, and for cleanliness. 

A no-drip molasses jug saves much discomfort. 

Knife-cleaning is a duty which often becomes irksome 
in small families, and is always laborious. The Rotary 
Knife Cleaner saves a great deal of time and labor, and 
cleans very effectually, but unless care is exercised it is apt 
to wear the knives quickly. 

A cinder sifter is useful and economical. One we have 
seen will stand in a corner and occupy little space. The 
ashes, as taken from the grate, are poured in at the top, 
and falling on a cone and sieve, the cinders fall into a 
hopper at the front and the ashes into a hopper at the 
back, and are easily removed. 

Among the patented articles there is also a funnel strainer, 
or a funnel and strainer in temporary combination, united 
very simply by a catch and spring handle, so arranged that 
wdien the funnel and strainer are used jointly, they are 
held firmly together ; and when either one is to be used 
alone, they can be easily separated. 

There are also a number of contrivances patented for 
filtering water, many of them worthless ; but a good and 
cheap domestic filter can be made as follows : Take a 



78 HOME COMFORTS. 

flower pot, and insert a sponge in the hole in the bottoreu 
fill the pot with alternate layers of sand, charcoal, and 
small pebbles. The flower pot thus filled up may then 
be placed on a jar or other convenient vessel, into which 
tlie water can be received as it filters through. 

A clothes line protector is not a new invention, but it 
cannot be said to be in general use. It consists simply of 
a little box fastened to a post and enclosing a wheel and a 
crank, with which a hundred feet of line can be wound up 
in one minute. ^Yhen the line is wanted it can be run out 
with equal facility, and by a turn of the wheel can be 
tightened, then a catch holds it in its place. 

How to Sharpen Edged Tcols. 
It has long been known that the simplest method of 
sharpening a razor is to put it for half an hour in water, 
to which has been added one-twentieth of its weight of 
muriatic or sulphuric acid, then lightly wipe it off, and 
after a few hours set it on a hone. The acid here supplies 
the place of a wiietstone, by corroding the whole surface 
uniformly, so that nothing further but a smooth polish is 
necessary. The process never injures good blades, while 
the badly hardened ones are frequently improved by it, 
although the cause of such improvement remains unex- 
plained. Of late this process has been applied to many 
other cutting implements. The workman, at the beginning 
of his noon-spell, or when he leaves off" in the evening, 
moistens the blades of his tools with water acidulated as 
above, the cost of which is almost nothing. This saves 
the consumption of time and labor in whetting, which, 
moreover, speedily wears out the blades. The mode of 
sharpening here indicated would be found especially advan- 
ta"-eous for sickles and scythes. 



HOUSEHOLD CONVENIENCES. 79 

In this connection we may remark that, to remove rust 
from steel articles, as knives, forks, razors, etc., cover witli 
sweet oil, well rubbed on, and let it remain for forty-eight 
hours, then rub with unslacked lime, powdered very fine, 
until the rust disappears. 

" To prevent rust on iron or steel," says Dr. Brewer, in 
his " Guide to Science," " take one pint of fat oil varnish, 
mixed with five pints of highly rectified spirits of turpen- 
tine, and rub with a sjjonge. This varnish may be applied 
to bright stoves, and even to mathematical instruments, 
without hurting their delicate polish, and they will never 
contract any spots of rust." 

We have already advised our readers not to buy a tea- 
kettle of which the handle rests against the bulge, as it 
may burn your fingers ; and for the same reason do not 
buy a soup ladle except it has a non-metallic handle : 
that is, one either of M'ood, bone, or ivory. 

To prevent a lamp from smoking, soak the wick in vin- 
egar, and dry it well before you use it. 




CHAPTER V. 

ON THE AET OF MARKETING. 

" Tell me what kind of food you eat, and I will tell you what kind of 
man you are." — Savarin. 

T\R. KITCHINER, in his well-known " Cook's Oracle," 

J J says the best rule for marketing is to pay ready 
J.^ money for everything, and to deal with the most 
respectable tradesmen in your neighborhood. He 
thinks if you leave it "to their integrity to supply you 
with a good article at a fair price, you will be supplied 
with better provisions, and at as reasonable a rate as those 
bargain hunters, who trot 'around, around, around about' 
a market, until they are trapped to buy some uncheioable 
old poultry, stringy cow-beef, or stale fish, at very little 
less than the price of prime and proper food." But on the 
other hand, it is reported that two Frenchmen, in order to 
test the question, agreed to buy precisely the same articles 
on the same day in the Paris markets, the one to take 
everything at the dealer's prices, and the other to bargain, 
jew, and beat down, and on comparison of cost it was found 
that the latter bought his marketing for twenty-five per 
cent, less than the one who did not bargain. Those who 
are really good judges of provisions can, with cash in hand 
and plenty of assurance, no doubt derive an advantage 
from buying in the open market, but others will do better 
by adopting Kitchiner's advice, and deal with "respect- 
80 



ART OF MARKETING. 81 

able tradesmen;" and especially those whose conceit is 
greater than their knowledge, or who pretend to know more 
than the dealers, when they really know nothing, 
should not trust themselves among the Philistines of the 
markets. 

How to Choose Beef, 

Of beef, that from the steer or ox is generally considered 
the best, though heifer beef is but little inferior to that of 
the ox. Good beef will exhibit a grain of deep coral red 
with white rather than yellow fat, and will yield easily to 
the pressure of a finger or knife, rising up quickly after 
pressure. Yellowish fat is an evidence that the meat is 
of an inferior quality. In old beef the texture of the meat 
will appear closer, the flesh coarser to the sight, as well as 
harder to the touch. 

Mr. De Voe, superintendent of one of the New York 
markets, and author of books relating to markets, makes 
the following remarks on 

Beef and its Different Kinds. 

The hindquarters, as is well known, furnish the 
choicest cuts, and supply the celebrated " baron of beef," so 
much esteemed in England as the crowning dish for a 
Christmas dinner. The thick part, in which is the hip- 
bone, gives the largest pieces, while the small end cuts to 
pieces each from eight to twelve pounds. The best of these 
is usually called " the middle-cut sirloin." The other part 
near the ribs is the thin-end sirloin, resembling the middle- 
cut sirloin, but with less tenderloin, and is sometimes taken 
in preference by those who have small families, or who like 
it on account of its closeness to the prime ribs. It is cut 
up also into small loin or porter-house steaks. The thick 



82 H03IE COMFOBTS. 

part of the sirloin contains the largest part of the tender- 
lorn [fillet-de-boeuf), making a large and choice piece of 
from twelve to twenty-five pounds for roasting, sometimes 
called the thick-end sirloin. When not used for roasting it 
is cut into three kinds of the finest dinner steaks, of 
which the first and best contains the largest quantity of 
tenderloin, and is known as the " hip sirloin steak." The 
next in order is the " flat bone sirloin steak," of which there 
is about the same number as the " hip sirloin steak." Next 
comes the same number of the " round bone sirloin steak," 
which is cut up to the socket bone, and makes excellent 
beefsteak pie, beef tea, minced collops, etc., as it is leaner 
than either of the foregoing. The squall-end sirloin, when 
not used for roasting, is commonly known as " porter- 
house steaks." The tenderloin, the most tender portion of 
the beef, is taken from the kidney side of the whole sirloin, 
and is considered by many the choicest portion of the ani- 
mal. This choice piece owes its tenderness to its situation 
in the living animal, this muscle being seldom used or 
called into action. 

The whole rump piece is usually divided into two or 
more pieces. The one that joins on the sirloin is the 
"socket piece," the other is called the "rump of beef." 
When this last is divided through the centre streak of fat, 
cutting about half way across the dark bone on the left side 
of the fat, the smallest piece on the left side is called the 
edge hone, and the other side the " rump piece." From the 
rump of beef are also cut pieces for bouilli, stewing, potted 
beef, fricandeau, etc. 

The buttock forms three pieces for smoking — the in- 
side piece, outside piece, and veiny j)iece — of which the first 
is generally preferred, but the last is the most tender. If 
the buttock be cut into two rounds of beef — the first and 



ABT OF MARKETING. 83 

second cuts — the first will be larger and better than the 
latter ; they are used for d la mode, a la doube, bouilli, 
stewing and corning. 

There are thirteen ribs in the forequarter, nine of which 
are cut off from the chuck. The first seven are called 
prime ribs, and are cut into the choicest roasting pieces, by 
subdivision into three or more pieces. The chuck contains 
the last four ribs running under the shoulder-blade, and 
the neck piece. The second-cut chuck rib is a very sweet, 
juicy-eating piece of beef, as well flavored but not quite so 
tender as the first-cut chuck rib. This joint costs much less 
per pound. The next cut being the twelfth and thirteenth, 
or both ribs together, is commonly known as a chuck piece. 
They are not so good, but with the blade out and a piece of 
nice fat or suet placed within, makes an excellent piece to 
" roast in the pot," d la mode or for potted beef, bouilli, mince 
pies, sou])S, etc. The brisket piece is much used by the 
French for bouilli, soup, and a very good piece corned or 
salted. 

Of beef, the back part of the rump is a convenient and 
economical piece, especially for a small family. It is a 
long and rather narrow piece, weighing about ten pounds, 
and contains less fat and bone than any other, equally good, 
in the ox. The thickest end affords nice steaks, and next 
to them is a good roasting piece, and the thinnest end, 
which contains the bone, is very good corned or for a soup. 
The whole is an excellent piece for roasting in case so large 
a one is needed. 

Dr. Kitchiner advises that you should never think of 
ordering beef for roasting, except for Sunday, and when 
you order meat, poultry or fish, tell the dealer when you 
intend " to dress it, he will then have it in his power to 
serve you with provisions that will do him credit, which 



84 HOME COMFORTS. 

the finest meat, etc., in the world will never do, unless it 
has been kept a proper time to be ripe and tender." 

A beef's tongue has always been regarded as a delicacy. 
The best tongues are those which are thick, firm and fat 
on the lower side. When fresh, they are used for stews, 
mince pies, etc. ; when pickled or smoked, for boiling, and 
when cold are choice eating. 

A beef's liver, which is of a clear, dark color, is good, 
but the best is of a clear, bright, yellowish-red color. A 
certain sign that it is tender is when it is easily mashed 
when pressing on it with the finger. Those that have 
streaks, dark and " sedgy," sandy spots and abscesses, are 
unfit for food. 

A beef's heart is best when it has a large portion of nice 
clear fat around the top part. The purposes for which it 
is commonly used are for stuffing, roasting or stewing, 
and it is a good, wholesome and nutritious food as well as 
one of the cheapest which the animal affords. 

Points in Good Veal, 

Veal, to be good, must not be too young and must not be 
tainted. When too young the bones are very tender, 
resembling nerves more than bones, and the meat is 
gluish, -with little or no flavor. Many diseases, especially 
in children, arise from eating such meat. The best veal is 
made out of calves not less than four nor more than ten 
weeks old, and in appearance is juicy, finely grained, with 
pinkish white fat. If the meat be very white, that shows 
the animal was bled before it was killed, which injures the 
flavor. If the meat be yellowish, or contain yellowish 
spots, it is not fresh. 

The choice part in veal, as in beef, is the hindquarter, 
which is usually subdivided into kg and loin. The loin is 



ART OF 3IABKETING. 85 

tlie best portion for roasting; it also makes fine chops for 
broiling, frying or stewing, and when too large is divided 
into two small joints, of which the thin is called the "kid- 
ney end," and the other the " thick end." The leg is used 
whole for roasting, and from it is cut the "fillet of veal," 
or veal cutlets. The part of tlie leg after the fillet is taken 
out is the " knuckle of veal," which makes a good, light 
stew or boil. 

The forequarter includes the shoulder, neck and breast. 
A small family can make two dishes from the shoulder by 
having the blade taken from the thin end for roasting and 
stewing. The "knuckle," left with the flesh on, with the 
blade-bone, will make an excellent and economical soup «>r 
stew. 

A leg of veal is also an economical piece to buy, for you 
can take oif cutlets from the large end, make broth of the 
shank and roast the centre. 

Calves' siveethreads are considered by some as the greatest 
delicacy of the meat kind. The calf has two, known as the 
" throat sweetbread," from the neck and throat, and that 
from or near the heart, called the heart sweetbread, which 
is the more delicate. The color should be clear and a little 
darker than the fat. 

In calves' heads, when fresh, the eyes have a bright, full 
look, and the skin seems firmly fastened to the head. Tlie 
young horn should appear, to indicate the animal was old 
enough to kill, for a small head and the absence of the horn 
show the animal was too young to make wholesome food. 
Never buy calves' heads or feet with a yelloAvish look, or 
which are slippery or slimy to the touch. When the head 
is split open, the sense of smell will detect any unsound 
condition of the brain. 

In buying calves' feet for use in soup always get those 



86 HOME COMFORTS. 

that are sino-ed, not skinned. Much of the y;hitinous or 
jelly property is located in the skin. 

When you roast or broil a piece of veal, baste often. 
Veal is better when a little overdone; it is not good and 
operates as physic if underdone. 

How to Select Mutton and Lamb. 

Mutton depends for its quality partly on the breeds of 
sheep and the age of the animal. The best mutton comes 
from sheep from three to five years old, and even older. 
The best is of a fine grain, the lean firm, succulent and of 
a color rather darkish red, the fat white, clear and hard, 
and the leg bones clear and nearly or quite white. Poor 
mutton is seldom fat, but, if so, the fat will look yellowish, 
and if the animal has been driven far, or is in a diseased 
state, the flesh will be flabby, the kidney fat sniall, stringy 
in appearance, while a bluish shade will appear in the lean, 
seen through the skin on the back. Ram mutton may be 
known by the redness of the flesh and the sponginess of 
the fat, which has a darker and sometimes a more yellowish 
shade than is seen in the best nuitton. 

The two loins together are called the " saddle of mutton," 
which is the finest and choicest part for roasting. 

To choose lamb, examine the fat on the back, and then 
that on the kidneys, both of which should be white, or light 
in appearance, and hard. When lambs have been roughly 
liandled, exposed to cold and stormy weather, or kept with- 
out food and far driven, a feverish state results, and the 
flesh becomes of a dark red color, the fat rather yellow, 
and the meat is tasteless, tough and dry. 

Not less than a quarter of lamb is sold when it is first 
brought to market, and then its weight seldom exceeds five 
or six' pounds. Age and the milk of a grass-fed ewe, and 



ART OF If ARRETING. 87 

the genial heat of the sun, speedily increase the weight of 
the quarters from eight to twelve pounds each, and with 
age and forced feed these later in the season reach as much 
as twenty-five pounds. 

Pork, Ham, and Lard. 

A pig until six months old is called a shoat; after that 
age it is entitled to be called a hos;. When the rind is 
tender and thin, or semi-transparent, the pork is young ; 
when thick and hard it is old. In prime pork the fat on 
the back should be half an inch thick, firm, and white, while 
the lean should be of a pale, reddish color, and sappy. The 
best pork is dairy-fed. 

Measly pork may be known by the yellowish lumps or 
kernels seen through the fat, and the lean and the heavy 
and dull appearance of the flesh — reject it. 

Every part of the hog, even the bristles, is available for 
some useful purjjose. For roasting, the chine of pork is 
considered the best, and for various other purposes many 
prefer this to the small quarters, or that on which the skin 
is usually permitted to remain, as the flesh is leaner and 
thicker. 

Pork, like veal, when properly cooked, should be well 
done. 

In selecting hams, run a knife along the bone, and if 
it comes out clean the ham is good, but if it comes out 
smeared it is spoilt. 

Soyer says the best plan to test the freshness of pork, 
or any meat, is to take Avith you to market in hot weather 
two wooden skewers, and insert them in the flesh near tliu 
bone and remove them, and the nose will detect any taint 
immediately • this is much better than touching and feeling 



88 HOME COMFOBTS. 

tlie meat. Tliese skewers sliould be scraped after having 
been used. 

Good bacon has a thhi rind, clear, red flesh, and the lean 
adheres closely to the bone. If the bacon has yellow streaks, 
it is rusty, and not fit to use. When purchasing either hams 
or shoulders in a cured state, you may conclude, if their 
appearance is white or dried, they will be very salt, and 
much of their sweetness extracted in consequence of having 
been long preserved in a strong, harsh pickle ; or they have 
been badly cured. To be good, they must be bright, clean 
and firm. 

Of sausages, the best are made altogether from pork, 
chopped small, seasoned and run into " casings." The city 
sausages are small, being meat run into lamb "casings," 
Avhile those usually made in the country are large and run 
into beeves' or hoo;s' " casino-s." Some of these are well and 
cleanly made, and others are as bad and quite as dangerous 
food as city sausages. Deceit is practised by mixing a large 
])ercentage of water with the meat ; some will put in one- 
eiglith more before it is pressed into the skin. This gives 
them a very moist, soft and flabby appearance, while a good 
article is firm and nearly dry on the outside. There is 
danger too in the kind and quality of the flesh that some 
use, and it is hard to tell from what animal it came, or 
whether it was in a diseased condition. The only way by 
which the buyer can be protected is to make his purchases 
from a well-known dealer, who is found reliable, or to pre- 
])are the meat himself. 

Sausage meat is prepared in the same manner as sausages, 
and not being put in " casings," is more easy of inspection. 
This meat and sausages are both excellent food, when one 
is confident they have been cleanly and properly made, and 
if not, the less one has to do with them the better. The 



ABT OF MABKETIWG. 89 

same remark is applicable to all kinds of prepared 
meats. 

Lard is frequently adulterated. It is a common practice 
among the dealers in lard to mix from two to five per cent, 
of milk of lime with the melted lard. A saponaceous com- 
pound is formed, which is not only pearly white, but will 
allow of tlie stirring in, during cooling, of twenty-five per 
cent, of water. 

When there is water in lard, it flies all over the fire ; in 
that case, boil it a few minutes with a cover on the pan, 
and then use. 

How to Keep Meat from Spoiling, 
The following is a recipe for this purpose, for which 
hundreds of persons have paid ten, and even twenty dol- 
lars, amounting in the aggregate to thousands of dollars : 

Take a quart of the best vinegar, two ounces of lump 
sugar, two ounces of salt. Boil these together for a few 
minutes, and when cold, anoint with a brush the meat to 
be preserved. For fish the mixture is to be applied in- 
side; for poultry, both in and outside. 

Meat, either before or after it is cooked, may be pre- 
served for a considerable time, even in warm weather, by 
being placed in the centre of a clean earthenware vessel and 
closely surrounded with common charcoal. To prevent 
the flies from " blowing " the meat, the vessel ought to be 
covered with a wire gauze. 

Another mode of preserving meat sweet and good for 
several days in the warmest weather, is to cover it lightly 
Avitli bran and hang it in some passage where there is a 
current of air. 



90 HOME COMFORTS. 

How to Judge Poultry. 

In chickens that are fresh the eyes will be full and 
bright, and the feet moist, soft and limber. If stale, the 
eyes ^\ ill be dry and sunken, and if any part of the body 
is (lark-eolored or green it is spoiled. If the rump is hard 
and stiff, says Professor Blot, it is fresh enough ; but if 
soft, it is necessary to examine the bird carefully, for it 
may be tainted. 

Buy a chicken with white flesh and pale yellow fat. If 
young, the cock will have small spurs, and the hen will 
have the lower jxart of the legs and feet soft and smooth ; 
in old chi(dvens these parts are rough, as if they had seen 
hard service in many travels. In young poultry the lower 
end of the breast-bone will yield readily to the pressure of 
the finger, but some dealers arrange this in old fowls in 
order to deceive. 

Soyer recommends tliat, where chickens are to be killed 
in the morning and eaten for dinner, to give each, " shortly 
before killing it, a teaspoonful of vinegar, which will cause 
them to eat tender. This can be done with all kinds of 
poultry." 

A young turkey has a smooth leg and a soft bill, and, 
if fresh, the eyes will be bright and the feet moist. For a 
small family a young hen turkey will be most suitable, as 
it is likely to be smaller, fatter, and plump. 

Young ducks feel tender under the wing, and the web 
of the foot is transparent. The best are thick and hard on 
the breast. 

Yomig geese have yellow bills, and the feet are yellow 
and supple ; the skin may be easily broken by the head of 
a pin; the breast is plump and the fat white. 



ABT OF MARKETING. 91 

If the skin be thick and tough, and the bill and legs are 
of a dark, reddish yellow, let the dealer keep the goose. 
An old goose is unfit for the human stomach. 

Euying Game. 

The^e is no article of food so deceptive in appearance 
and so difficult to judge whether it is young, tender and 
good or not, as Game. 

In general, we may say that young birds may be distin- 
guished by the softness of their quills, and that females are 
more tender and juicy than males. Old pheasants may be 
known by the length and sharpness of their spurs; in 
young ones these are short and blunt. Old partridges have 
light blue legs, instead of yellow brown. Wild Jowl may 
be known to be old from their bills and the stiifness of the 
sinews of the legs ; those that have the finest plumage are 
the poorest eating. Hares and rabbits are tested by tearing 
the ear, and breaking the jaw-bone between the finger and 
thumb; if they do not tear or break easily, they are fit only 
for soup or "jugging." When game is not to be cooked 
immediately, it is prudent to pepper the place where they 
were shot. 

In buying venison, choose the dark -colored meat, not the 
black, but the rich reddish-brown flesh, with fine grain, 
and well coated with fat. Keep it hung up in a cool, dark 
cellar, covered with a cloth, and use as soon as you can 
conveniently. 

Vegetables Appropriate to Different Meats. 

Potatoes are good with all meats. With poultry they are 
nicest mashed. Sweet potatoes are most appropriate with 
roast meat, as also are onions, winter squash, and asparagus. 



92 HOME COMFOBTS. 

Carrots, parsnips, turnips, greens, and cabbage are eaten 
•with boiled meat, and corn, beets, peas, and beans are 
appropriate to either boiled or roasted meat. Mashed 
turnip is good with roasted pork and with boiled meats. 

Tomatoes are good with every kind of meat, but 
specially so with roasts; apple sauce with roast pork, and 
cranberry sauce with beef, fowls, veal, and ham. 

Currant jelly is most appropriate with roast mutton and 
venison. 

Pickles are good with all roast meats, and capers or 
nasturtiums with boiled lamb or mutton. 

Horseradish and lemons are excellent with veal. 

How to Select the Best Vegetables. 

Of all vegetables the Potato takes rank as the most use- 
ful and wholesome and least expensive. In buying pota- 
toes, those should be preferred which are of good size, free 
from blemishes, and having a small eye. In order to test 
their soundness, cut off a piece of the larger end, and if 
spotted, they are not sound, and therefore very inferior. 
Those are best which are fresh from the mould, and have 
never been wetted until they are cleaned to be cooked. 

Turnips are among the least nutritious of all food, being 
nearly ninety per cent, of water, but for those who are dis- 
posed to eat too much, they are useful by stimulating intes- 
tinal action and removing constipation. Turnips of middle 
size are the best for the table, as the large ones are apt to 
be spongy. 

Tomatoes are among the most healthful of vegetables, 
and good whether eaten hot or cold, cooked or raw, fried 
in sugar and butter, or stewed with salt and pepper. The 
medium sizes are the best. 



ART OF MARKETING. 93 

CauUfoicers are considered best when they are large, 
solid, and creamy. They are stale when the leaves are 
much wilted, and soft dark s|X)ts are seen through the 
head. 

In purchasing celery, choose the solid, close, clean, and 
white stalks, with a large close heart, as they are likely to 
be the most crisp and sweet, though all celery is rather 
bitter early in the season. The season begins about the 
middle of August, and celery is sweeter and better after 
frost. 

Of egg-plant, the large, purple, oval-shaped kind is the 
best, and they taste, when fried in thin slices, something 
like an oyster. They should be firm, not ripe. 

Mushrooms are a dangerous article for an inexperienced 
person to buy, as it is difficult to distinguish the genuine 
from the poisonous. As a general rule, it may be stated 
that in eatable mushrooms the stalk and top are dirty 
white, and the lower part has a lining of salmon fringe, 
which changes to russet or brown soon after they are 
gathered. The poisonous manifest all colors, and those 
which are dead white above and below should be let alone. 

A good test is said to be to sprinkle salt on the S})ongy 
part, and if they turn yellow they are poisonous, but if they 
become black they are good. Let the salt remain on a little 
while before you decide on the color. Mushrooms are in 
season during September and October, but may be culti- 
vated artificially throughout the year. 

Peas should be always bought in the pods, which should 
feel cool and dry. Close packing gives them a mashed or 
wet appearance, and a warm feeling, which injures their 
natural flavor ; and when the pods begin to look rusty the 



94 HOME COMFORTS. 

pea has a black spot, and is too old to be good. They 
should be cooked as soon as possible after having been 
picked. 

As a general rule, it may be said of all kinds of vege- 
tables, that if they snap crisply they are fresh, but if, on 
the contrary, they bend rather than snap, and have a flabby 
appearance, they have been gathered for some time, and 
should be bought for stale vegetables. 

How to Preserve Fruits and Vegetables. 

Potatoes should be put into the cellar or a cool, dark 
place, as soon as they are dug. They are injured by being 
exposed to the sun or air or frost. Some housekeepers 
keep them in barrels, and have sods laid over them. 
Others lay them in lieajis in the cellar, and cover them 
with mats, or bury them in sand or earth. Others, again, 
dip them for a minute or two in boiling water, and after 
they are dried, put them in sacks. This is to destroy the 
germs, and is a valuable discovery. To prevent them from 
sprouting in the spring turn them out on the cellar floor. 
To thaw frozen potatoes put them in hot water. 

Cabbages may be kept by burying them in snnd, with 
the roots upward. But the best way to keep them thiough 
a severe winter is to leave about ten inches of the stem at- 
tached to them, and scoop out the pith to the extent of an 
inch. Suspend the cabbages by means of a cord tied 
around the stem, so that the portion from which the pith 
was taken remains uppermost, which regularly fill every 
morning with fresh water. 

Celery should be buried in sand, and turnips and beets 
should be put in a dry part of a cellar. 



ART OF MARKETING. 95 

Apples should remain out of doors, in barrels, until the 
weather becomes cold. They should not be headed up im- 
mediately after having been gathered, as a moisture accu- 
mulates upon them, which causes decay. When brought 
in, set them in a back room until the weather requires 
that they shall be put into the cellar. A linen cloth laid 
over them will suffice until very cold weather. Many good 
housekeepers prefer not to have apples headed up at all. 
There is an advantage in being able to pick them over sev- 
eral times during the winter, as one decayed apple may 
injure all its neighbors. If they are moist, wipe them. 
If frosted, put them in cold water. 

Onions keep best spread out over the floor. 

Parsnips should be buried in a pit in the garden, and in 
very cold climates not opened until March or April. 

Squashes should be kept in a dry place, and as cold as 
may be without freezing. 

Herbs should be gathered on a dry day, and when they 
are just beginning to bloom, as they are then in their 
perfection. 

Medicinal herbs should be dried, put up in paper bags, 
and labelled. The leaves of those used in cooking should 
be pounded, sifted, and put in labelled boxes or stoppered 
bottles. 

Herbs retain their virtue best if dried by artificial heat. 
The warmth of an oven, a few hours after the bread has 
been taken out of it, is sufficient. 

Cranberries will keep all winter in a firkin of water. 

Oranges and lemons keep best wrapped in soft paper and 
laid in a drawer. 

In purchasing seeds there are two excellent methods of 
testing their quality. One is to throw them into water: 



96 HOME C03IF0BTS. 

the seeds which float on the surface are worthless, and the 
other is to place the seeds in a saucer between two pieces 
of cloth saturated with water. Having lain the time re- 
quired for seed in the earth to sprout, they will declare 
their quality, either good or bad. Note that fruit coming 
from old seed that has retained its germinating power is 
better than that grown from new seed. 

How to Manage Wines and Eeer. 

All wines, parti(;ularly the light-bodied and sparkling, 
require to be kept on their side, and at a uniform tempera- 
ture of about 55°. 

Claret, Burgundies, and also wdiite wines, except spark- 
ling, should be decanted very carefully in removing them 
from the bin, when about to be used, otherwise the deposit 
is liable to become mixed with the liquid, and the flavor 
destroyed. 

Wines, old in bottle, should be drunk immediately on 
being decanted. 

All aerated waters should have their corks kept damp, 
and placed downwards. 

Bottled stout and ale should be placed cork upwards. 
When required for use, they should be handled carefully, 
and the whole poured out without putting down the bottle, 
otherwise the sediment will be shaken into the liquor. 
Pale ale is sometimes spoiled by standing in a draught. 

To cool wine, beer or water, wrap around the bottle a 
piece of linen dipped in water, and place it in a draught. 

Fish, Oysters, Lobster, etc 

Most kinds of fish lose their flavor M'ithin a few hours 
after being taken from the water. The cod, and one or 
two others, are an exception to this general rule. Fish are 



AET OF MARKETING. 97 

fresh when the eyes are clear, the fins stiff, the gills red, 
hard to open, and without bad odor. Fresh shad have 
gills of quite a crimson red, bright scales, and a firm body ; 
and shad are unfit to eat when the gills are a whitish blue 
and the eyes are sunken. In a good salmon, when cut, the 
flesh should appear quite red, solid, and flakey. The 
Dutch and French bleed the cod, which accounts for the 
better quality and whiteness of their codfish. All large 
fish, in fact, should be bled as soon as caught. 

Almost every kind of fish is either boiled, broiled 
or fried. Some are better boiled than broiled, others 
best fried. Any small fish, of the size of a smelt or 
smaller, is better fried than prepared in any other way. 
Fish, like salmon trout, are best when baked, and some 
fine sauce poured over them. A cup of diluted cream, in 
which is stirred two tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a 
little chopped parsley, makes an excellent sauce for baked 
salmon trout. 

Bass, weighing about a half pound to a pound, are best 
fried ; those weigliing from one to three pounds are best 
broiled, and larger sizes are best when boiled. Very large 
bass are dry eating. 

Oysters and Clams. 

To judge whether oysters and clams are fresh, insert a 
knife, and if the shell instantly closes firmly on the knife 
the oysters are fresh. If it shuts slowly and faintly, or not 
at all, they are dying or dead. When the shells of raw 
oysters are found gaping open, they are fit for nothing but 
to be thrown away. 

Salt oysters are not good for frying. Bread crumbs are 
much better than cracker crumbs for fried oysters. A 
late discovery is, that oysters fried in sweet oil are best. 



98 HOME COMFORTS. 

When too many oysters have been incautiously eaten, 
and are felt lying cold and heavy on the stomach, there is 
an infallible remedy, in hot milk, of which half a pint may 
be drunk, and it will quickly dissolve the oysters into a 
bland, cream jelly. Weak and dyspeptic persons should 
always take hot milk after meals of oysters. 

Lobsters, prawns, and crabs, newly-caught and fresh, will 
be lively and brisk in their motions. Never buy a dead 
lobster. If you buy a lobster ready boiled, see that his 
tail is stiff and elastic, so that when you bend it under it 
springs back immediately, otherwise it is not fresh. In 
buying terrapins, select only those that are large, fat, and 
thick-bodied. Small, poor terrapins are not worth the cost 
of the seasoning. Female terrapins are the best. 

How the Chinese Catch Fish. 

The Chinese have a method of catching fish that is 
known to but few in this country. They sprinkle on the- 
water a mixture of dough and pulverized Cocculus Indicus, 
which intoxicates the fish, and they turn belly upv,\irds on 
the top of the water by dozens or hundreds or thousands. 
All that the fisherman has to do is to take a boat, gather 
them up, and throw them into a tub of clean water, and 
presently they will be as lively as ever. It is said this 
manner of catching fish does not injure them in the least, 
but care must be taken to get them into fresh water at 
once. 

Oil of Bhodium ])ut on th2 bait, -when fishing with a 
hook, will give a fisherman luck, if there are fish in the 
stream. 



ABT OF MABKETING. 99 

Hints on Buying Groceries. 

It is a wise economy to purchase tlie best flour, even at 
an extra cost. By tasting, any sourness in flour may be 
detected. Good flour, when pressed tightly in the luuid, 
has a yellowish tinge, and the traces of the skin are left 
upon it. Poor flour will not stick in this way, may be 
blown off the hand, and sometimes looks as if mingled 
with ashes. When you have found good flour, purchase a 
year's supply, if possible, or at least notice the brand, and 
buy the same kind. Flour and meal of all kinds should 
be kept in a cool, dry place. 

To keep flour sweet in hot weather insert a triangular 
tube of boards or tin, bored full of small holes, into the 
centre of the meal barrel, which allows the air to reach the 
middle of the meal, and it never gets musty. A barrel of 
good flour, dry as it appears to be, contains from 12 to 16 
pounds of water. 

Unbolted flour should be kept on hand by the barrel the 
same as fine flour. 

In cooking, new flour is not as good as old ; it does not 
thicken as well and as fast. 

Buy your Indian meal in small quantities, say 15 or 
20 pounds at a time, unless your family is very large. It 
is apt to heat, mould, and grow musty if kept long in bulk 
or in a warm place. If not sweet and dry, it is useless to 
expect good bread or cakes. As an article of diet, espe- 
cially in the early warm days of spring, it is healthful and 
agreeable, often acting as a gentle corrective to bile and 
other disorders. In winter also it is always acceptable 
upon the breakfast or supper table, being warming and 
nutritious. In summer the free use of it is less judicious, 



100 HOME COMFORTS. 

on account of its laxative properties. In the South, where 
corn meal is a staple article of diet, the yellow meal, which 
is used largely in the Northern States, is regarded as only 
fit for chicken and cattle food. 

Rijefiour should be bought in small quantities, say forty or 
fifty pounds at a time, and be kejjt in a keg or half barrel, 
with a cover. 

Buchcheat meal, rice, and hominy, should also be pur- 
chased in small quantities, and kept in covered kegs or 
tubs. Several of these articles are infested with black 
insects, and an examination should be occasionally made 
fur them. 

Avroicroot, tapioca, sago, pcarl-harlcy , American isinc/Iass, 
maccaroni, vermicelli, and oatmeal, are all articles which help 
to make an agreeable variety, and it is just as cheap to keep 
a small quantity of each as it is to buy a larger quantity 
of two or three articles. Eight or ten pounds each of 
these articles of food can be kept in covered jars or covered 
wooden boxes, and then they are always at hand when 
wanted. All of them arc very healthful food, and help to 
form many delightful dishes for desserts. Some of the most 
wholesome puddings are those made of rice, tapioca, and 
sago, while isinglass, or American gelatine, forms elegant 
articles for desserts, and is also excellent for the sick. 

Sitr/ars should not be bought by the barrel, especially the 
brown, which is apt to turn to molasses, and run cut on to 
the floor. It is best to keep four qualities of sugar on hand. 
Refined loaf for tea, crushed sugar for the nicest preserves 
and to use with fruit, nice brown sugar for coffee, and 
common brown for cooking some things. 



ART OF MABKETING. 101 

'The loaf can be stored in tlie papers on a slielf. The 
otliers should be kept in close-covered kegs, or covered 
wooden boxes made for the purpose. 

Coffee and tea cau be bought with advantage in consid- 
erable quautities, as they do not deteriorate by keeping. 
Coffee, in fact, iin})roves by age if kept in a dry place, as 
it loses its rank smell and taste. Several cents a povnid 
may be saved by buying a bag of coffee or half chest of 
tea. Tea loses its flavor if put up in paper, and should bq 
kept in glass or tin, shut tight. Coffee should be kept by 
itself, as its odor affects other articles. 

Starch may also be bought in large quantities at a con- 
siderable discount from the retail price, which, in a large 
family, makes a difference in the yearly expenses. The 
best starch is the most economical. 

Indigo is not always good. When a good sample is 
found, it is advisable to buy enough for a year or two, and 
keep it in a tight tin box. 

Saleratus should be bought in small qnantities, then 
powdered, sifted, and kept corked in a large-mouthed 
glass bottle. It grows damp if exposed to the air, and 
then cannot be used properly. 

Salt must be kept in the dnjcst place that can be found. 
The best salt for table use is put up in boxes, but if a 
quantity be purchased, it should be stored in a glass jar, and 
closely covered. When, as is common, it becomes damp 
in the saltstands, it should be set by the fire to dry, and 
afterwards reduced to fine powder again. Coarse or damp 
salt on a table cannot be reckoned among Home Comforts. 

Vinegar which is made of wine or cider is the best. 
Buy a keg, or half barrel of it, and set it in the cellar, and 



102 H03IE COMFOBTS. 

then keep a supply for the castors in a junk bottle in the 
kitchen. If too strong, vinegar will " eat'' pickles. 

Pickles should never be kept in glazed ware, as the vine- 
gar forms a poisonous compound with the glazing. In 
buying pickles, avoid those which have been raised arti- 
ficially to a bright green. 

Molasses, if bought by the barrel or half barrel, should 
be kept in the cellar. New Orleans syrup is best for the 
table, and Porto Rico for cooking. If bought in small 
quantities, it should be kept in a demijohn. No vessel 
should be corked or tightly bunged, if filled with molasses, 
as it may swell and burst the vessel, or run over. 

Hard soap should be bought in large quantity, and laid 
to harden in bars piled on each other, having the air all 
round to dry it. It is much more economical to buy hard 
than soft soap, as those who use soft soap are very apt to 
waste it, which they cannot do with hard soap. 

Sjyices and pepper should be ground fine, and put in 
large-mouthed glass bottles, or kept in tin cans, in a dry 
place. Avoid blight red peppers, spices, and sauces. To test 
mdmegs, prick them with a pin. If they are good, the oil 
will instantly spread around the puncture. 

Raisins should not be bought in large quantities, as they 
are injured by time. Small boxes are the best. 

Of Sago, the small and white, called " pearl," is the most 
desirable. 

Cheese, soft between the fingers, is richest and best, and 
should be kept in a box in a cool, dry place. Wipe off the 
mould with a dry cloth. 

Candles improve by being kept for two or three months, 
and therefore should be bought by the box. 



AET OF MARKETING. 103 

Lastly, weigh and measure all purchases v/hen they are 
brought home, in order not only to ascertain whether you 
have got the just quantity, but to cultivate a faculty of dis- 
tinguishing between genuine and spurious articles. 

How to Preserve Eggs. 

There are many ways by which eggs may be preserved 
fresh for months, and families can thus take advantage of 
the market, and buy large quantities when they are cheap, 
for use in those months when they are scarce and dear. 

One way to preserve eggs is to place them on a sieve, 
and pour hot water over them slowly. This stiffens or 
cooks the white to the depth of the sixteenth of an inch. 
Then smear the outside with a little copal varnish, or a 
solution of gum arable, and pack in bran or oatmeal, with 
the little end down. 

Another plan is to dissolve some gum shellac in a suffi- 
cient quantity of alcohol to make a thin varnish. Give 
each egg a coat, and, after they become thoroughly dry, 
pack them in bran or sawdust, with their points down- 
ward, in such manner that they cannot shift about. 

Some put them in a brine made of one pint of fresh 
slacked lime and half pint of salt to three gallons of water, 
and if fresh eggs are put in, fresh eggs will come out, even 
for two or four years ; but in the opinion of others, lime 
and salt have a tendency to impair the flavor. 

Dr. Delamere says the method he found to succeed 
best was to dip each egg into melted pork lard, rubbing it 
into the shell with the finger, and then to pack them in an 
old fig drum or butter firkin, setting every egg upright, 
with the small end downwards. " Eggs thus prepared in 
August, directly after harvest, have been boiled and eaten 
with relish by myself and family in the following January." 



104 H03IE COMFORTS. 

It is said that, for a small family, eggs are a cheaper 
breakfast dish than meat, even if they cost fifty cents a 
dozen. 

How to Test Coal Oil. 

Good kerosene oil should be purified from all that por- 
tion which boils or evaporates at a low temperature, for it 
is the production of the vapor, and its mixture with atmo- 
spheric air, that gives rise to those terrible explosions M'hich 
sometimes occur when a light is brought near a can of in- 
ferior oil. To test the oil in this respect, pour a little into 
an iron spoon, and heat it over a lamp until it is moder- 
ately warm to the touch. If the oil produces vapor which 
can be set on fire by means of a flame held a short distance 
above the surface of the liquid, it is bad. Good oil, poured 
into a teacup, or on the floor, does not easily take fire when 
a light is brought into contact with it. Poor oil will ignite 
under the same circumstances, and hence the breaking of a 
lamp filled with poor oil is always attended by great dan- 
ger. Good kerosene should be free from all matters which 
can gum up the wick, and thus interfere w«th free circula- 
tion and combustion, and should be also perfectly safe. It 
ought to be kept in a cool, dark place, and carefully 
excluded from the air. 



CHAPTER VI. 

ON FUEL AND FTEES — SAVING GAS — PEEVENTING 
CONFLAGRATIONS. 

"The fuel wasted by rich and poor in England is prodigious. The 
Frenchman would almost cook an ox with the fuel which an English 
housewife consumes in the roasting of a leg of mutton." — Pall Mall 
Gazette. 

'^EXT to a smoky chimney or a scolding wife a fire 
that " won't burn " is one of the greatest vexations 
in housekeeping. In all culinary operations a fire 
is the one thing essential, and the best method of 
making fires, and how to save fuel, are important consider- 
ations in Household Economy. 

The substances principally used as fuel in America and 
in Great Britain are — wood, coal, charcoal, coke, and to a 
very limited extent, peat. The last three may be dismissed 
with a brief notice. 

Charcoal is simply wood which has been exposed to a 
red heat until it has been deprived of all its gases and vola- 
tile parts. Being very pure carbon, charcoal makes a hotter 
fire than wood, but, as it requires frequent renewal, it is 
inferior to wood or coal for household use as a fuel. It is 
valuable in the arts, and being an absorbent of putrescent 
effluvia, it will remove taint from meat. 

105 



106 HOME COMFORTS. 

Coke is the charcoal of coal, and bears to it the same re- 
lation that charcoal does to wood. It, however, has more 
carbon than charcoal in a small compass, and therefore 
affords a longer continued heat. It serves a useful pur- 
pose when mixed with coal, the two combined making a 
strong fire, which is often wanted in cooking, as well as in 
very cold weather. 

Peat is the "turf" of Ireland, and is useful where a mild 
fire, long continued, is desired. There are different quali- 
ties of peat, but the " brownish black," found lower down 
in the beds than the ordinary brown, is the most valuable 
as a fuel. It is consumed faster than coal, but does not 
need to be replenished so often as wood. But so long as 
coal and wood are reasonably cheap, peat is not likely to 
be used to any great extent as fuel for household purposes, 
because of its pungent smell, and the fact that its smoke is 
very trying to the eyes. 

Wood, and its Kinds. 

Wood is undoubtedly more generally used as a fuel in 
this country than any other substance, and most persons 
are familiar with the characteristics of the different species 
and their relative value. 

Hichory is without doubt the best of all woods for house- 
hold use. Lyman, in his "Philosophy of Housekeeping," 
says of it, even when but a few wrecks cut, it will light with 
but little reluctance, and give a steady, equable heat, uni- 
form and entirely reliable for cooking purposes. Black 
birch is very much like it, and, on account of its agreeable 
fragrance, is the pleasantest of all fuels. Both these woods 
are worth a dollar or two more by the cord than any others, 
but the satisfaction they give is more than an equivalent 



FUEL AND FIRES. 107 

for tl>e difference in price, miite oak, ash and maple are next 
to hickory and black birch iu vahie for fuel. There is lit- 
tle or no preference between these varieties when seasoned, 
but the peculiarity of ash is, that it burns almost as well 
when green as when dry. In situations where dry wood 
cannot be obtained, it is well to remember that ash and 
hickory, though green, if split fine and baked in the stove 
oven, will make a hot and lasting fire. 

When green, pine and chestrmt are almost worthless for 
fuel ; when dry, they burn for a little while with a lively 
flame, but never radiate heat like the harder varieties. 
Dry chestnut, mixed with oak, makes a very good winter 
fiisl, but consumes more rapidly than hard wood alone. 
Persons who purchase woods for fuel, or who use different 
varieties, will find it greatly to their advantage to make 
themselves acquainted with the various kinds and their 
qualities. Possessing such knowledge, a cord of mixed 
roood can be used in such a manner as always to afford the 
degree and kind of heat needed, the hickory and birch, or 
choice cuts of white oak and ash, being reserved for baking 
and other operations demanding a strong and lasting fire, 
while the inferior grades of oak, chestnut, bass, and hem- 
lock will be used when only a moderate heat is required. 

Of all kinds, the best wood for fuel is made from trees 
that have attained full maturity, without falling into decay. 
An elm a century old furnishes much better fuel than one 
of thirty years. 

Wood that is straight and solid is the most profitable to 
buy. A cord of small, crooked sticks does not contain half 
the wood there is in a cord of straiffht and solid loss. 



108 HOME COMFORTS. 

Wood is bought by measurement. A cord of wood is 
8 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 4 feet higli, and contains 128 
cubic feet. To ascertain the amount of wood in a load, 
multiply the length by the breadth, and this product by 
the height, and you will have the number of cubic feet. 

Wood is usually cheapest in August and September, and 
if cut into short pieces, will furnish the most fuel. 

But in the principal cities on the Atlantic coast anthracite 
coal is the principal fuel, and nothing will compare with it 
for yielding the largest amount of heat from a given weight 
of fuel. Ordinarily, it is considered that there is no great 
difference between a cord of seasoned wood and a ton of 
anthracite coal, but if used with care and skill, a ton of 
hard coal can be made to go much farther than a cord of 
any kind of wood. 

How to Judge Hard Coal. 

Good hard coal is in square lumps, and breaks with a 
smooth, shining fracture. Bad coal has flat pieces of a dull 
color, as thick as the palm of the hand, and of greater or 
less size, which, when burnt, remain hard, heavy, and be- 
come whitish, hence called " bone." If a common scuttle- 
ful of coal, about twenty-five pounds, yields, after the cin- 
ders are washed next morning, half a pound of white pieces, 
the coal cannot be commended. This explains the reason 
why, of two carts of coal standing side by side, though an 
ordinary purchaser would have no choice, a practised coal- 
dealer would gladly take a cargo of one, while he would not 
be hired to take the other into his yard, if compelled to 
send it to his customers. He knows that one kind will 
burn almost entirely up, leaving only a little ashes, while 
in a single day's burning the other will leave the grate full 



FUEL AND FIBES. 109 

of " slag." So, one ton of coal at four dollars a ton may 
be dearer than another at ten dollars, and yet not one man 
in fifty could tell the difference from external inspection. 

A shiny, square fracture, we repeat, is what an honest 
coal-dealer loves to see. He considers the article good in 
proportion as it breaks at right angles firmly. If it shat- 
ter in breaking, or break unsquarely, he will not look at 
it. If the coal have among it flat pieces, with a dull, coal- 
dust look, it is " bony." Such a piece gives no more heat 
than a bone ; it is a black rock, nothing more ; it is hard 
to kindle, and goes out directly. 

How to Kindle a Coal Fire. 

Hard coal will not ignite until it is thoroughly heated 
through and through, and as small coal will not require as 
much wood to heat it up as large, it is important, where the 
supply of kindling wood is limited, that the pieces of coal 
which touch the wood should be small. As wood in cities 
is more expensive than coal, economy suggests the use of as 
little as practicable. The coal, then, for kindling, should 
not only be as small as a pigeon's egg, called " chestnut 
coal " by the dealers, but to economize the wood, the pieces 
should not be over four inches long, so that they can be 
laid compactly, then the heat will be more concentrated on 
a given point of coal, and thus the sooner heat it through 
and through to the degree requisite for actual ignition. If 
the wood is thus placed, and is covered with one layer of 
chestnut coal, it will redden with great rapidity and cer- 
tainty. As soon as this is the case, cover over the red- 
dened coal with another layer or two, and in a minute or 
two put on the larger size. By putting a handful of shav- 
ings or paper in a grate compactly, then some splinters of 
dry wood, not larger thai^ the little finger, and outside of 
9 



110 HOME COMFORTS. 

that a layer of pieces an inch or more thick and three or 
four long, then apply a match to the paper, and while it 
is catching, put on the small coal as above, there will not 
be a failure during the winter, nor a growl in the house- 
hold, for the want of a good and timely fire. To lessen a 
coal fire, press it from the to]),so as to make the mass more 
compact, giving less room for air. To revive it, lay on 
small pieces tenderly, put on the blower, and when red, add 
larger pieces, and riddle out from below. Heaping on more 
coal, or letting out the ashes below, will certainly put out 
a low coal fire. 

Clinkers can be removed from stove grates and range 
backs by throwing half a dozen broken oyster shells into 
the fire when the coal is all aglow, and covering them Avitli 
fresh coal. When all are red-hot the clinkers become 
doughy, and are easily removed. 

Some one recommends as a cheap fre-kindler, cheaper 
than wood, to melt three pounds of rosin in a quart of tar, 
and stir in as much sawdust and pulverized charcoal as you 
can, and then spread the mass upon a board till cool, and 
then break it into lumps as big as your thumb. You can 
light it with a match, and it will light a fire, for it burns 
with a strong blaze. It is economical of time and money. 

How to Use Coal Economically. 

In the matter of burning coal, says the " Scientific Amer- 
ican," there is also a great want of intelligence, and it is not 
to be expected that common servants will know or care 
much about saving it. The grate of the range is stuffed so 
full that the oven top is loaded with it, so that the fire will 
not die out nor require looking after; then the draft is 



FUEL AND FIRES. Ill 

opened, and the money, or what is the same, the heat, goes 
flying up the chimney. With a little forethought all this 
could be prevented, and a ton of coal made to last three 
months instead of one. A good bright fire can be steadily 
maintfftned with coal, with less trouble than with any other 
kind of fuel, but not by raking, poking, and piling in 
green fuel continually. 

After breakfast, the fire should be cleared of ashes, if 
tliere are any, and fresh fuel put on to fill the grate mod- 
erately. Let the oven damper be turned up so as to heat 
it, and leave the small top door open, more or less, accord- 
ing to the intensity of heat required. In this way air 
enters over the top of the fire, and maintains a far better 
C!)mbustion, and consequently greater heat than when the 
draft-dampers are thrown down. A washing can be done, 
or "ironing" accomplished, with one-third less coal than 
is generally thought necessary to use. 

There is also great waste in throwing aAvay half-burned 
coal under the supposition that it is cinders. One who has 
experimented with coal for twenty years, both in the house 
and under the boiler, writes : 

In cleaning the grate in the morning, you will find there 
is a quantity of unburned coal, which has been externally 
subjected to combustion. It is covered with ashes, and 
looks to the inexperienced eye like cinder. It is often re- 
lentlessly dumped into the ash-box. The fact, in many 
cases, is, that the lump is only roasted on the outside, not 
even coked, and is in a better condition for igniting than 
the fresh coal. We have stated that coal is a condensed 
form of carbon. The superficially burned lumps, found in 
our grates or among our ashes, sufficiently prove this. But 
take a lump of anthracite coal from the fire, red-hot and 



112 HOME COMFOBTS. 

all alive. Throw it into the water until the ashes are 
washed from it, and it is black externally and cool. Take 
it out, and break it open with a hammer, and you will find 
it red-hot and glowing inside. This shows that time, and 
a plentiful supply of air, are necessary to burn C(3al, and 
that large amoimts of what we call ashes and cinders are 
really excellent fuel. 

To prove this fact, let any one carefully sift his ashes, 
throwing out the inevitable slate, which can be readily de- 
tected, and start his coal fire on wood or charcoal, kindling 
his coal fire with the savings. He will find that he can 
get a good bed of incandescent coal sooner than with green 
coal on the kindlings. 

Solon Robinson says forcibly : 

Never, whether rich or poor, suffer your cinders or uu- 
burned bits of coal to be Avasted in the ash-barrel. 

Measure for measure, they are worth more than coal. 
Save them, soak them, try them. Water renovates the 
coke, and wet cinders upon a hot coal fire will make it 
hotter, and keep it so longer than fresh coal. 

Saving cinders is not meanness, it is economy. 

How to Measure Coal. 
Ten times the price of this book may be saved to any 
family which uses coal largely, by remembering that the 
quantity of coal is determined as accurately by measure- 
ment as by one of Fairbanks' best scales. A bin or box, 
of thirty-four and a half feet cubical, holds exactly one ton 
of two thousand pounds of white ash coal, such as is used 
in ranges, stoves, and furnaces, but it takes thirty-six cubi- 
cal feet for one ton, or two thousand pounds, of red ash 
coal, such as is generally used in grates. A lawful ton of 



SAVIIi'G GAS. 113 

coal in Pennsylvania and, Ave believe, in New York, is 
twenty-two hundred and forty pounds, or twenty-eight 
bushels of eighty pounds each. A bin that will hold an 
honest ton of red ash coal should measure forty feet cubi- 
ical — that is, the internal length, breadth and height of the 
bin multiplied together. For instance, thus, four feet broad, 
five feet long and two feet deep. 

Gas as a Fuel. 

Within a few years very great improvements have been 
made in the construction of apparatus for utilizing gas as a 
fuel. All the culinary operations of roasting, baking, boil- 
ing, and stewing are now done to a limited extent by gas, 
and for some of these purposes it is superior to coal. Meats 
can be roasted by gas without parting with their juices, 
and consequently there is less waste, and their flavor is 
preserved. Boiling and frying can be done with greater 
perfection than over the open fire, on account of the readi- 
ness with which the heat can be increased or decreased at 
pleasure. Gas-stoves are peculiarly adapted for the French 
style of cooking, and the production of soups and stews. 

For heating apartments of moderate size, gas has been 
found very eifective and economical, when the burners and 
regulators are properly constructed. Some of these stoves 
are now so arranged that the flame of the gas acts on an in- 
combustible, fibrous material, called asbestos, which speedily 
becomes incandescent, and this produces a lively and cheer- 
ful appearance. 

How to Eegulate and Save Gas. 
In all the principal cities of the United States and 
Europe, gas is now the most popular agent for producing 
artificial light, though hardly known at the beginning of 



114 H03IE COIfFOETS. 

the present century. But notwithstanding its general use, 
consumers have very vague ideas on the proper manage- 
ment of gas, and large sums of money are unnecessarily ex- 
pended for want of attention to a few simple details. 

For the purpose of economizing in the consumption of 
gas, there is no part connected therewith of more importance 
than the burners. If these are improj^erly constructed, or 
their flames unsuitably adjusted, the light derived from gas 
is reduced in a most extraordinary manner. Under such 
circumstances the account of the consumer is much in- 
creased, and it is no exaggeration to state that a large pro- 
portion of consumers, through their own mismanagen e:it, 
pay twice as much as there is any occasion for, or, in other 
Avords, by proper burners and control, they could have 
their usual light for one-half the money now expended. 

Of burners there are three principal kinds in use — the 
argand, which are best for stores and warehouses ; the 
hat-icing, which is best for outside light ; and the fish-tail, 
which is generally adopted in hotels and dwellings. In all 
of these the most important considerations for gas consum- 
ers to attend to are, to see that the orifices for the egress of 
gas are perfectly regular in size, smooth, and not rusted, 
and sufficiently large to permit it to issue with very feeble 
pressure or force. " Whenever the orifices for the emission 
of gas," says the " Gas Consumers' Guide," " arc too small, 
a greatly increased pressure is required to expel it, and the 
light derived is diminished just in proportion to that in- 
creased pressure. With burners constructed in this defec- 
tive manner, the flame has a dull, blue tinge, which in- 
creases in intensity according to the augmented pressure ; 
the jets forming the flame are more or less detached, and a 
large portion of the lower part of this is of a deep blue 



SAVING GAS. 115 

color. Defective burners are very common, and by their 
use the consumer frequently does not obtain more than one- 
half the available light to be derived from the gas." Lava- 
tipped burners are preferable to metal, because they will 
not rust. 

Next to proper burners, a good regulator is an econo- 
mizer of gas. This is a small self-acting instrument, gener- 
ally attached to the outlet of the gas meter, at the en- 
trance to the premises, and contains a suspended plug, 
or cone, which opens or closes the orifice through which 
the gas passes in direct accordance with the decrease or in- 
crease of the pressure in the company's pipes. By this 
means the pressure in the consumer's premises may always 
be maintained at one uniformity, so long as there is a suffi- 
ciency of supply. " The economy derived by the use of the 
regulator must depend on circumstances, such as the pressure 
of the gas in the locality, the care previously employed in 
adjusting the lights, the kind of burners employed before 
and after using the instrument ; but it is by no means un- 
common for a saving of from 25 to 40 per cent, being 
effected by its use, and still retaining the same amount of 
light. Professor Silliman gained even better results than 
these by using a regulator, thereby, as he stated, effecting a 
saving of nearly 50 per cent. In all large establishments 
of several stories high, a distinct regulator is essential for 
each floor, inasmuch as gas by its lightness has a tendency 
to ascend, so that in the absence of this instrument there is 
often an excess of gas in the upper portion of a building, 
whilst the lower premises are in comparative obscurity." 

There is a method of enriching gas, by causing it to 
pass, just previous to combustion, through prepared oib 



116 HOME COMFORTS. 

which are rich in carbon. By this process tlie gas becomes 
loaded with the carbon of the oil, which is thereby carried 
to the burners, and produces a much larger amount of light 
at a comparatively small cost. The apparatus is called a 
carbonize)', and is attached to the meter. 

The best way to regulate the flow of gas, and thereby 
economize it, to the burners, is not by the burner valves, 
but the main valve near the meter. \V'^lien the gas jets are 
burning, this valve should be turned to regulate the flame 
to the proper length, with the burner valves freely open. 
The object of this is to reduce the total pressure in the 
pipe before the gas comes to the burners, so that some gas 
may not escape unconsumed, as is usually the case when 
the burner valve is used as the regulator. 

How to Extinguisli Fires and Prevent Conflagrations. 

Science has deplorably failed as yet in teaching builders 
how to erect a perfectly fire-proof building. The great 
conflagrations in Chicago and Boston demonstrated that 
those buildings which >vere supposed to be fire-proof could 
not withstand a whirlwind of flame. They demonstrated 
that neither granite nor iron can arrest the progress of a 
great fire, and that the fire departments, as at present or- 
ganized in American cities, are powerless to prevent con- 
flagrations. Of all the safeguards that have been invented, 
and the ingenious plans that from time to time have been 
promulgated, not one remains, except the simple idea that 
the only certain method of preventing confiagrations is to ex- 
tinguish fires at tJieir hcg'.ii ting. Whenever a fire is allowed 
to destroy one building, it may destroy hundreds of others. 
In order to extinguish a fire at its beginning, it is neces- 
sary that every building should be provided with a suitable 



PBEVENTING CONFLAGBATIONS. 117 

apparatus for the purpose, such as a small hand-pump, one 
or two buckets of water, and an axe or hatchet. The 
"Scientific American" recommends portable hand forc- 
ing-pumps, and remarks : " The rule is, that the be- 
ginnings of fires are small, and their progress compara- 
tively slow. In most cases, a very little water judiciously 
applied will extinguish a fire within five minutes of its 
ignition. It is for this reason that small portable hand 
forcing-pumps havd been approved by the most experi- 
enced firemen as the very best means, all things consid- 
ered, for extinguishing fires." 

Mr. Bird, the author of a valuable work on "Protection 
from Fire," recommends that every city and large town 
should reorganize its fire department, alter the present 
steam-engines so that they may throw steam into build- 
iugs where the flames have not burst from the doors, win- 
dows or roofs, and in addition thereto, place in every large 
building, store, stable or manufactory, a small engine, three 
buckets, and one axe, with a card of directions what to do 
in case of fire. Each family should organize its "Home 
Fire Brigade;" and in buildings where many persons are 
employed, there should be some of them trained to do duty 
as firemen. 

[In order to prevent fires, the " London Builder " offers 
the following suggestions : 

" Keep matches in metal boxes, and out of the reach of 
children ; wax matches are particularly dangerous, and 
should be kept out of the way of rats and mice. Be care- 
ful in making fires with shavings and other light kindlings. 
Do not deposit ashes in a wooden vessel, and be sure that 
burning cinders are extinguished before they are deposited. 
Never put firewood upon the stove to dry, and never put 
ashes or a light under a staircase. Fill fluid or spirit (or 



118 H03IE COMFOBTS. 

kerosene) lamps only by daylight, and never near a fire or 
light. Do not leave a candle burning on a bureau or chest. 
Alwavs be cautious about extinguishing matches or other 
lighters before throwing them away. Never throw a cigar 
stump upon the floor, or into a spit-box containing saw- 
dust or trash, without being certain that it contains no fire. 
After blowing out a candle, never put it away until sure 
that the snuif has gone entirely out. A lighted candle 
ought not to be stuck up against a frame wall, or ])laced 
upon any portion of the woodwork in a stable, manufac- 
torv, shop, or any other place. Xever enter a barn or 
stable at night with an uncovered light. Never take an 
open light to examine a gas-meter. Do not put gas or 
other lights near curtains. Never take a light into a closet. 
Do not read in bed, 

"The principal register of a furnace should always be 
fastened open. Stove-pipes should be at least four inches 
from woodwork, and well guarded by tin or zinc; rags 
ought never to be stuffed into stove-pipe holes ; openings 
into chimnev-flues for stove-pipes which are not used, ought 
alwavs to be securely protected by metallic coverings. 
Never close up a place of business in the evening without 
looking well to the extinguishment of lights and the proper 
security of the fires. When retiring to bed at night, always 
see that there is no danger from your fires, and be sure that 
your lights are safe."] 

What to do when Clothing is on Fire. 

To preserve life ichen clothing has caught on fire the first 
great requisite of safety is to preserve presence of mind. 
Mr. Bird says : " Throwing one's self upon the floor, and 
wrapping a rug or blanket or overcoat about one, will oc- 
cupy two or three seconds, and the danger would be over. 



PBEVENTING CONFLAGBATIONS. 119 

The reason for lying down is, that then the flames burn 
quite slowly towards a vital part, but almost instantly 
while standing upright. 

" If persons awake in the night, and find the room filled 
with smoke, they should get out of bed, and creep with the 
face as near the floor as possible to a door or window. A 
room may be so full of smoke as to suffocate any one stand- 
ing up, and be perfectly safe to breathe in, a few inches 
from the floor." 

"With regard to the use of kerosene lamps, which so often 
cause fires and death by their explosion, he says : " Never 
blow down the chimney of a kerosene lamp to extinguish 
it. Never use great quart lamps. They are very dangerous. 
If you have them, throw them against a stone wall. Never 
buy the cheapest oil. Get the best. Lamps, when lighted 
in the morning without being filled, and taken quickly 
about the house, are very liable to explode." * 

To Save a Person on Fire. 
Seize a blanket from a bed, or a cloak, or a carpet, or 
any woollen material. Hold the corners as far apart as 

* Tliere are seUers of " patent lamp, the vapor cannot find its 

burning oils" who claim you can- way to the air, but fills the lamp 

not explode them if you try all day. above the oil. Now we have the 

To show this they pour the oil on a flame of the lamp over the vapor. 

tin plate or pan, apply a match to If we blow the flame down to the 

the fluid, and tlie fire is extin- vapor, or so shake the lamp as to 

guished. The fiillacy of this is ex- force a tiny stream of the vapor up 

plained, as follows : Benzine does to tlie flame, or the vapor increases 

not explode, but the vapor which until it fills the lamp, and is forced 

rises from it does. When the ben- up the side of the wick to the flame, 

zine is poured upon the plate the the vapor takes fire, and burns its 

vapor passes off" into the air safely, way back into the lamp, when the 

When it is gone, the match is ap- whole of the vapor explodes, setting 

plied with the result as stated. But fire to the oil, and often killing the 

when the dangerous oil is in a person holding the lamp. 



120 H03IE COMFOETS. 

you can, stretch them out higlier than your head, and rush 
boldly on the person, throwing the fabric around the upper 
part of the body. This instantly smothers the fire, and 
saves the face. The next instant throw the unfortunate 
person on the floor. This is an additional safety to the 
face and breath, and any remnant of flame can be put out 
more leisurely. The next instant immerse the burnt part 
in cold water, and all pain will cease with the rapidity of 
magic. Next get some common flour, remove from the 
water, and cover the burned parts with an inch thickness 
of flour; if possible put the patient in bed, and do all that 
you can to soothe until the ])hysician arrives. Let the 
flour remain until it falls ofi" itself, when a beautiful new 
skin will be found, and unless the burns are deep, no other 
application will be needed. The dry flour for burns is the 
most admirable remedy ever proposed, and the information 
ought to be imparted to every one. The principle of its 
action is, that like the water, it causes instant and perfect 
relief from pain, by totally excluding the air from the 
injured parts. 




CHAPTER yil. 

ABOUT EATING AND ARTICLES OF FOOD. 

"Animals fill themselvey, man eats. The man of mind alone knows 
how to eat." — Brillat Savarin. 

y,i LL the inferior animals are endowed with instinct to 
direct them to the right food, that has been provided 
for them, and which requires no cooking or previous 
•^ preparation ; man, on the contrary, was predestined 
to exert not only his body in gathering his food, but his 
intellect in adapting it to the wants of a complicated organ- 
ism. All the elements that compose the human body have 
corresponding elements in the animal and vegetable crea- 
tion ; but man is compelled to exercise his mind and reason 
to select from the various articles, those which are adapted 
to his peculiar and constantly changing circumstances. 
Food, that to the Esquimaux would be wholesome nutri- 
ment, would disgust and poison the inhabitant of the 
tropics, while the cooling fruits and vegetables of the 
equator would freeze or starve the sojourner in polar 
regions. 

All food in ordinary use may be divided into four 

classes : heat-producers, of which the representative articles 

are, butter, lard, fat of meats, vegetable oils, fine flour, etc.; 

2d, muscle-makers, of which the representative articles 

10 121 



122 HOME COMFORTS. 

are, lean meats, cheese, peas and beans, etc.; 3d, brain 
feeders, represented by shell fishes, lean meats, active fishes, 
birds, etc.; and waste articles, or those containing little 
nutriment, but which are useful to modify and dihite con- 
centrated food. As a general rule, that Food is best and 
most economical which contains the proper proportion of 
lieaters and muscle-producers, but all of these classes of food 
are needed, and every day ; varying, however, in proportions, 
according to age, circumstances and temperature. Those 
who ard'ignorant of dietetic laws provide nearly the same 
kind of food in summer as in winter, for the young and for 
tlie aged, for the active and the sedentary ; and the result 
is seen in the prevalence of bowel and liver complaints, 
gastric and typhoid fevers, dysenteries and dyspepsia. 
The great secret in the })reparation of food that will pro- 
long life in good health is to adapt it to the mental or mus- 
cular employments of those consuming it, and to provide a 
variety suited to the ages of the individuals and the season. 
Divine wisdom has in nature provided an infinite variety 
of articles adapted for food, but it requires some knowledge 
of their constituent parts, and a good deal of intelligence, to 
select and properly prepare them. 

1. Grain as Food. 

Of grains, the most extensively cultivated and most 
generally used is 

Wheat. Of this the varieties are so numerous that the 
French Academy of Arts and Sciences has described no 
less than four hundred. All of them, however, con- 
tain the elements which correspond with the requirements 
of the human system, though differing in proportion and 
value, and it is possible to maintain life and health on 



EATING AND ABTICLES OF FOOD. 123 

wheat alone for an indefinite period, with good water and 
good air. The proper modes of preparing wheat, and 
baking bread, will be considered subsequently. 

Rye is a valuable grain for persons predisposed to 
constipation, and with corn meal makes a nourishing 
and digestible bread. 

Indian-corn is a heating grain, and, abounding in oil, 
it is more fattening than wheat. It is a food peculiarly 
well adapted to cold climates, and the meal when mixed 
with rye, makes a wholesome and excellent bread. The 
"large hominy," or the grain divided into two or three 
parts, is suited to both the active and the sedentary, but is 
especially valuable food for laborers, because it contains 
much of the muscle-making elements. 

Oatmeal, though little used as food for man in this 
country, is a staple article of consumption in portions of 
Great Britain, particularly in the north of England, Scot- 
land and Ireland, In porridge, or cakes, it greatly pro- 
motes muscular and mental activity. 

Rice is one of the most popular articles of food, and its 
consumption is greater throughout the world than any 
other grain, except perhaps wheat. It is, however, only 
capable of supporting life feebly, has less than half the 
muscle-feeding properties of wheat, and a fourth of its 
elements for the brain and nerves. Its principal compo- 
nent is starch, and it should be eaten in conjunction with 
beefsteak and vegetables that contain no starch. 

2. Vegetables as Food. 

Of vegetables the most nutritious are beans, which 
contain a large proportion of casein. Like cheese, they 
are therefore less easily digested than the cereals, but are 



124 HOME COMFORTS. 

well adapted to active people whose digestive powers are 
strong. Two pounds of beans will do more muscular work 
than three j^ounds of wheat, and more brain work than 
three and one-half pounds. But, as they contain less by 
twenty per cent, of the requisite amount of heaters, they 
are appropriately eaten with fat pork or some other heat- 
making food. 

Peas, wliich contain nearly the same elements as beans, 
and in similar proportions, are more easily digested, and 
require to be eaten with potatoes, and such heaters as pork, 
butter, or fat meats. 

Potatoes, parsnips, turnips, carrots and green vegetables 
generally contain some nutritive elements, but with such 
an amount of water and waste, that the capacity of the 
human stomach is insufficient to hold the supply necessary 
to keep the body in good condition. Eaten, however, with 
lean meats or other concentrated food, they perform a 
useful office in distending the stomach, and facilitating 
digestion. 

3, Animals as Food. 

The flesh of animals, fat and lean together, like a grain 
of wheat, contains every one of the elements that compose 
the human system, but not in the same proportions. 

The diiference in the nutritive properties of five 
articles of animal food, in common use, is set forth in tliQ 
following table. In one hundred parts are — 

Filirin and allm- 
Mineral matter, men, or food 

or food for for muscles Fat, or food for 

brains. and tissues. heat. Water. 

Veal 5 16 16.5 62.5 

Beef 5.0 15.0 30.0 50.0 

Mutton 3.5 12.5 40.0 44.0 

Lamb 3.5 11.0 35.0 50.5 

Pork 1.5 10.0 50.0 38.5 



EATING AND ABTICLES OF FOOD. 125 

It will be perceived that pork contains five times as 
much of the food for heat as of the food for muscles and 
tissues, and is therefore the best for cold weather, while 
veal is better suited to warm weather. In lean beefsteak, 
the muscle-making principles predominate, and consequently 
butter or potatoes, rice or Indian corn should accompany 
it, while with fat pork we require beans, peas, etc. Pork 
and beans contain the muscle and vital elements as well as 
the heaters, and are exceedingly wholesome diet for those 
who are active and exposed to the cold, while they are stupe- 
fying to the sedentary, and tend to produce inflammatory 
diseases or congestion if eaten in hot weather. 

Fishes are found to contain, when chemically analyzed, 
about the same muscle-making elements as are found in 
lean beef and mutton, with a larger proportion of phos- 
phorus or food for the brain. The active kinds of fish, as 
trout, pickerel, and shad, are more valuable as food than 
the common white fish, like cod and haddock. Containing 
a large proportion of phosphorus, or the vital element, they 
are especially suited to students and sedentary men, though 
fish pickelled in brine are more suitable for laboring men 
than others. 

Chickens or poultry are not equal to fishes as a food 
for the studious, but they contain more of the muscle- 
making and heat-producing elements than beef or veal. 
This is especially true of the legs of a chicken or turkey, 
which are far superior to the breast as a valuable food. 
The breast is white, dry, and somewhat insipid, while the 
muscles that move the legs are dark, juicy and have a 
rich flavor. In birds which live on the wing, it is other- 
wise. Their breasts are rich in muscle-making and vital 



126 HOME COMFORTS. 

elements, while the meat on the thighs and side bones is 
poor and dry. 

Oysters are unsatisfactory food for laborers, but will do 
very well for the sedentary, and to sup on. They contain 
but twelve and a half per cent, of solid matter, " in which 
are included fibrin, albumen, gelatine, mucus and osma- 
zome." 

4. Food Makes the Man. 

It is unnecessary to pursue the analysis further, for 
" every moving thing that liveth shall be meat " for those 
wdio know how to appropriate it. Everything that has life 
can be used to sustain life in man, and some think that 
somewhere in the store-house of nature there is a remedy 
for every ill the flesh is heir to. It is believed by some emi- 
nent thinkers, that even mental and nervous power can be 
greatly increased by the use of proper food. This, if true, 
is one of the most important applications of science to 
dietetics ever made. If true, the cook and the caterer are 
as important agents in a scientific system of education as 
the schoolmaster, the one furnishing the brain with power 
to work, and the other training it to do work. Let any man 
observe his feelings and mental capacities, says Dr. Bel- 
lows, the author of the " Philosophy of Eating," " after a 
breakfast of white bread and butter, or griddle cakes and 
syrup, or any other such carbonaceous articles of food, and 
I am sure he will find himself unable to perform the same 
mental labor as he can on a breakfast of beefsteak, or fish 
and potatoes, or unbolted bread and milk, or any other 
articles abounding in the phosphates. Brains can no more 
be made or worked without phosphorus than Egyptian 
bricks can be made without straw. Why not then apply 
these plain laws to raising children, and cultivating their 



EATING AJVD ABTICLES OF FOOD. 127 

minds, as Ave do to the raising of wheat, and hens, and bees, 
and developing their properties and powers? 

"No man who understands his business would expect to 
raise wheat in soil in which is no nitrogen, lime, or phos- 
jiliorus, or make hens profitable on food containing no lime 
for egg-shells, or keep bees on a desolate island where no 
flowers could be found. Why, then, expect to develop 
brains on white bread, griddle-cakes and doughnuts?" 

This is a theory that every one can test for himself, and 
if found valuable and practical, its application is very im- 
portant. Is your boy, says the doctor, fat and stupid, having 
neither muscle nor brains ? Feed him on lean meats, fish, 
oatmeal cakes, beans, peas, and food in which phosphorus 
abounds. Is your son, on the contrary, mentally active, 
thin in body and precocious in intellect? He is liable to 
dangerous diseases of the brain, and inflammations, and it 
will be well to confine his diet principally to cooling fruits 
and vegetables, with bread, milk, and articles containing 
starch and sugar. Is your daughter pale, feeble and unde- 
veloped ? Do not feed her on white bread, sweet cakes, 
puddings and confectionery, but give her lean meats, fish, 
milk, coarse bread and articles containing iron and phos- 
phorus. Is your grandfather fat, stupid and dozy, dis- 
posed to sit by the fire, saying nothing, and caring for 
nothing? Change his diet from fat beef and pork, white 
bread and butter, buckAvheat cakes and molasses, to fish, 
beefsteak, and potatoes. Is he, on the contrary, very rest- 
less and irritable? Let him eat of the fattest meats, and of 
butter, sugar, and molasses as much as he desires. Do you 
expect to spend the day in study or mental exercise? Take 
a breakfast of beefsteak, fish and potatoes, game, oatmeal 
or barley-cakes, or any other articles in which phosphorus 



128 HOME COMFORTS. 

abounds. Do you intend to spend the day in hard out-of- 
door work in the cold? Eat fat and lean meats, beans 
and corn bread. Do you wish to feel badly and be pre- 
disposed to fevers and inflammatory diseases? Eat in 
summer what you found wholesome in winter — pork and 
beans for breakfast, a side of pork for dinner, and have 
your vegetables cooked swimming in fat. 

As a further corollary from the principles set forth, it 
may be stated that everything designed for food is Vvdiole-' 
some under some circumstances, and unwholesome under 
other circumstances. Dr. Bellows forcil)ly remarks, "A 
rattlesnake, all but the head, would make a delicious and 
wholesome meal to a man who was starving and could get 
nothing else, while the most delicate woodcock would be 
poison to a man prostrated with typhoid fever. That 
abstract question, then, so often asked, Is this or that kind 
of food wholesome? is consummate nonsense." 

Keeping Lent. 

In Catholic countries it is the practice to fast for a season 
in early spring, especially to abstain from eating meat, and 
the practice seems founded on a wise physiology. " If all 
persons for a month in early spring," saj'S Dr. Hall, "were 
to abstain from all meats whatsoever, as the spirit of the 
doctrine of Lent requires, it would add greatly to the 
health of communities by enabling the system to throw off 
the impurities of the body acquired by the hearty eating 
of winter, would cool off the heated blood, and thus destroy 
the germs of spring and summer diseases, and thus is it 
that the proper practice of the precepts of religion pro- 
motes not only the spiritual but the physical health of 
man. These are simple measures : they are practicable^ cost 



EATING AND AETICLES OF FOOD. 129 

no money, and are available to all, and if heeded in a 
rational manner, death would be kept from many a dwell- 
ing, and life-time sorrows would be lightened in many 
bosoms." 

Digestibility of Foods. 

With regard to the comparative digestibility of the 
various articles that are usually used as food, the nearest 
approach to accuracy which has hitherto been obtained was 
made by Dr. Beaumont, who had an opportunity to witness 
tlie operations of the stomach of a Canadian, which had 
been deprived of its outer coating, and laid bare by a 
musket ball. He discovered that boiled rice, raw sweet- 
apples, boiled sago, raw fresh eggs, boiled and fried trout, 
barley broth, boiled tripe and broiled venison were the most 
digestible of all the common articles of diet. Next to 
these were boiled tapioca, boiled beans, roasted or baked 
potatoes, raw cabbage, fresh and raw oysters, hash, broiled 
liver, boiled and roasted turkey, roasted goose, broiled 
lamb, fricaseed chicken and boiled beef, which were digested 
in three hours or less. The most indigestible of all were 
roasted and boiled pork, roasted wild ducks, fried heart, 
fried veal and fried beef, beef soup, boiled cabbage and 
boiled salmon. These required from four to five hours to 
digest. It is proper, however, to state that the value of 
articles as food does not depend altogether on their digesti- 
bility, except for very feeble stomachs. The stomach 
requires rest, it is true, but when it has nothing to do for 
long intervals, it is apt to become restless and enfeebled. 

How and when to Eat. 

To derive full nourishment from the food which is taken 
into the body, it is as important to know how and when 



130 HOME COMFORTS. 

to eat as what to eat. All the medical authorities concur 
in recommending people to chew tlieir food well, so as not 
to give the stomach the work which the teeth ought to 
perform. Eat slowly, they all say, and at regular hours. 
Never eat when very tired, or heated, or angry, or the 
food will probally ferment instead of digesting. Take a 
hearty but not a heavy dinner, and rest, if possible, at least 
half an hour after a hearty meal. Eat light suppers: 
nightmares are generally occasioned by eating, before going 
to bed, heavy food which presses steadily on the great 
veins of the body, arrests the flow of the blood, dams it up 
in the vessels of the brain, and a man having nightmare is 
mujh nearer death than most persons suppose. If he can- 
not arouse himself instantly, and escape from his imagin- 
ary peril, he will probably never awake. 

Physicians also concur in declaring that the quantity of 
food to be taken at a meal is even more important than its 
quality. Americans as a rule eat too much. Some one has 
said, "Our men are all gluttons, and our women are all 
slaves." A little food well assimilated, yields far more nutri- 
ment and vigor than quantities crudely digested. Lewis 
Cornarro, who brought himself by dissipation and gluttony 
to death's door, reversed his practice, and by limiting himself 
to twelve ounces of solid food per day, prolonged his life for 
sixty-three years, dying at an advanced age. The lightest 
and least of meat and drink, says Dr. Cheyne, " a man 
can be tolerably easy under, is the shortest and most infalli- 
We means to preserve life, health, and serenity." 



CHAPTER yill. 

CHEAP LIVING AND ECONOMICAL FOOD. 

" No charitable societies have ever done so much good to the poor by 
the distribution of food, as they could do by printing and putting into 
the hands of every family, a little tract containing practical lessons of 
economy in the art of living well and living cheap — an art that would 
prevent the waste of food, and lessen the expense of first purchases, and 
increase the nutritious qualities while it added immensely to the table 
enjoyment of every family." — Robinson. 

MERICANS are reproached not only for being great 
eaters, but the most wasteful and extravagant con- 
sumers of food on the face of the earth. The whole 
system of American cookery is based upon a state 
of things that existed when food was so plentiful as to have 
scarcely any money value. When wheat could be purchased 
for less than fifty cents a bushel, and corn was burned for 
fuel, as it has been in some of the Western States, there 
could be little or no inducement to economize in their use. 
But where thousands are on the brink of starvation, relying 
on public soup-houses for the means to sustain life, as has 
been the case in the Atlantic cities since the late financial 
panic, the waste of food becomes a crime against the w^ell- 
being of society. How to get sufficient nourishment from 
food with the least expenditure of money, is therefore the 
question we propose to consider in this chapter. 

131 



132 H03IE COMFOETS. 

The editor, in his " Opportunities for Industry," pub- 
lished some years ago, remarked : " The cost of what are 
absokite and actual necessaries of life is, in most countries, 
comparatively little — as is evidenced in cases -where stern 
necessity affixes the bounds of possible expenditure. In 
France, for instance, there are tens of thousands of peasants 
and operatives whose daily earnings do not exceed ten 
cents, and yet they continue to live gayly on that sum. 
As a consequence, in no other country has the art of cook- 
ery made equal progress. In Paris an enterprising woman, 
Madame Robert, furnishes a dinner daily to six thousand 
workmen for two pence each, her bill of fare being cabbage 
soup, a slice of bouilli (boiled beef), a piece of bread, and 
a glass of wine. In our Southern States, the food of the 
chief laborers — the men who produce an export value of 
over two hundred millions of dollars per annum in cotton, 
sugar, tobacco and rice — does not probably cost their pro- 
viders ten cents per day." 

What may be done with ten cents a day, even in the 
extravagant city of New York, was illustrated by Solon 
Robinson, in his famous story originally published in the 
Kew York Tribune of "A dime a day." He told how a 
woman with four children, whose daily income for some 
time was only ten cents, managed to jn-ovide subsistence 
for all without charity from any one. Now this is the way 
she did it : she bought one cent's worth of corn meal, four 
cents' worth of white beans, and paid three cents for a 
scraggy piece of salt pork, half fat and half lean. "With 
the meal, she made three dumplings, and these, with the 
pork, beans and a pepper-pod given her, she put into a pot 
containing plenty of water, for the pork was salt, and boiled 
the whole for two hours. For breakfast the family ate one 



CHEAP LIVING. 133 

of the dumplings, and each had a plate of soup ; for dinner 
they ate half the meat, half the soup and one of the dump- 
lings, leaving the same allowance for supper. For a 
change, she bought five cents' worth of scrap pieces of lean 
beef, which,. with some potatoes and an onion and the meal 
worked up into round balls of stiff dough, she made into 
a stew or chowder that sufficed for the day. There are 
thousands placed in similar circumstances who, not knowing 
how to use a sum so small, would have invested their ten 
cents in some cheap poison and swallowed it. Some 
years ago a Yankee philosopher of the school of Diogenes, 
M. Thoreau, endeavored to ascertain by actual experiment 
how cheaply a man could live, and his exjierience is re- 
corded in a volume entitled " Walden, or Life in the 
Woods." For eight months his food cost him in money 
twenty-seven cents a week ; and for two years it consisted 
of rye and Indian meal (without yeast), potatoes, rice, a 
very little salt pork, and molasses ; and his drink was 
water. He says, "a man may use as simple diet as the 
animals, and yet retain health and strength." 

From experiments made some years ago, in five prisons 
in Scotland, where the habits of the prisoners were about 
alike, it was found that to supply the waste of the human 
system when not in active exercise, about four ounces of 
muscle-making and thirteen ounces of heat or fat-producing 
food were required daily ; and that a lesser supply was 
insufficient to restore the waste of the tissues, and that the 
body consequently diminished in weight. About the same 
proportion is observed in the rations provided for soldiers 
by governments whose officers study the laws of dietetics. 
Now, assuming this to be the amount of nutriment daily 
required, we need only analyze the various articles of food 
11 



134 HOME C031F0ETS. 

and select those containing the requisite elements that cost 
the least. In other words, we need eat only one and three- 
quarter pounds of cracked wheat or unbolted flour daily, 
or one and a half pounds of maize and Southern corn 
mixed, a pound of beans or peas and rice, two pounds of 
barley, or two pounds of oatmeal and one of buckwheat, 
or three pounds of beef of average fatness, or about ten 
pounds of potatoes or sixteen pounds of turnips, carrots 
and parsnips. A bill of fare consisting of one pound of 
roast beef, one pound i)otatoes, one pound unbolted bread, 
one pound milk, and one pound apples, will contain the 
same quantity of muscle-making and heat-producing ele- 
ments. The combinations by which the same end may be 
obtained are almost unlimited; but where cost alone is 
considered, the simplest and cheapest articles must be 
selected. Less than two pounds of unbolted flour, or beans 
or peas or Indian corn, are all a man need purchase and 
consume daily, to supply the waste of liis system in ordi- 
nary circumstances. This statement furnishes a key to 
about all that can be said respecting economy in food. 

Soyer's Cheap Soups. 

Soyer, in his " Culinary Campaign," has given recipes 
for making palatable soups which he says will not cost 
more than a cent a quart in London. His directions for 
two of them are as follows : 

No. L Take two ounces of drippings; quarter of a 
pound of solid meat, at four pence a pound, cut into pieces 
one inch square; quarter pound of onions, sliced thin; 
cpiarter pound of turnips (the peel will do, or one M'hole 
one cut into small slices) ; two ounces leeks — green tops 
will do — sliced thin ; three ounces of celery ; three quar- 
ters of a pound of common flour ; half a pound of pearl 



CHEAP LIVING. 135 

barley, or one pound of Scotch ; three ounces of salt ; quar- 
ter of an ounce of brown sugar; two gallons of water. I 
first put two ounces of dripping into a saucepan, capable 
of holding two gallons of water, with a quarter of a pound 
of leg-beef without bones, cut into square pieces of about 
an inch ; and two middling-sized onions, peeled and sliced ; 
I then set the saucepan over a coal fire, and stir the con- 
tents around for a few minutes with a wooden (or iron) 
spoon until fried lightly brown. I had then, ready-washed, 
the peelings of two turnips, fifteen green leaves or tops of 
celery, and the green part of two leeks (the whole of which, 
I must observe, are always thrown away). Having cut 
the above vegetables into small pieces, I threw them into a 
saucepan with thh other ingredients, stirring them occasion- 
ally over the fire for another ten minutes ; then added one 
quart of cold water, and three-quarters of a pound of com- 
mon flour, and half a pound of pearl barley, mixing all well 
together ; I then added seven quarts of hot water, seasoned 
with three ounces of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of 
brown sugar, stirred occasionally until boiling, and allowed 
it to simmer very gently for three hours; at the end of which 
time I found the barley perfectly tender. The above soup 
has been tasted by numerous noblemen, members of Par- 
liament, and several ladies, who have lately visited my 
kitchen department, and who have considered it very good 
and nourishing. 

The soup will keep several days when made as above 
described ; but I must observe, not to keep it in a deep 
pan, but within a flat vessel, where the air could act freely 
upon it. Stir it now and then until nearly cold, or other- 
w'ise the next clay it will be in a state of fermentation. 
This does not denote the weakness of the soup, because the 
same evil exists with the strongest of stock, or sauce, if not 



136 H03IJE COMFOJITS. 

stirred, or confined in a warm place — a fact known to every 
first-rate cook. The expenses may come to three fiirthings 
per quart in London ; but as almost everything can be had 
at less cost in the country, the price of the soup will be 
still more reduced. In that case, a little additional meat 
might be used. By giving with this a small portion of 
bread or biscuit, better support would be given to the })Oor 
at a trifling cost; and no one, it is to be hoped, hereafter, 
would hear of the dreadful calamity of starvation. 

No. 2. Same Cost. — Quarter of a pound of beef, cut into 
pieces one inch square; two ounces of dripping, or melted 
suet; quarter of a pound of turnips, or carrots, cut into 
fragments half an inch square; four drops of essence; one 
and a half pounds of maize flour; three ounces of salt; 
quarter ounce of brown sugar; one teaspoonful of black 
pepper, ground fine. Take two ounces of either dripping, 
American lard, or suet, to which add the turnips or carrots ; 
fry for ten minutes; add one quart of cold water, and the 
meal, well mixing, and moisten by degrees with seven 
quarts of hot water ; boil five hours, and season with three 
ounces of salt, one quarter oiince of brown sugar, one tea- 
spoonful of black pepper, two drops of essence of garlic, 
one drop of essence of mint, a little celery ; stir quickly, 
and serve directly. 

By adding a pound of potatoes to this, a superior soup 
Avill be the result. 

Grits, or Crushed Wheat. 
Wheat has been analyzed and found to contain, as Ave 
have already remarked, all the elements that compose the 
human system, and in such proportions, that life and 
health can be continued on wheat alone for an indefinite 
period, with good water and good air. Ground or crushed 



CHEAP LIVING. 137 

into what are called grits, but unbolted, it forms a very 
valuable, cheap and palatable food. All the food for 
nuiscle or brain that is in wheat is found in the outer layer 
or crust and in the germ or " chit," the centre, which fur- 
nishes superfine flour, being simply starch. This flour or 
starch now constitutes the principal food of children, while 
the outer coat or bran is fed to animals, or, in the language 
of Dr. Bellows, "So perfectly ignorant are people gen- 
erally of the laws of nature, that they give to their j)igs 
the food which their children need to develop muscle and 
brain, and give their children what their pigs need to 
develop fat." ' 

Crushed white wheat is now made, by a superior pro- 
cess, at the "Atlantic Mills " in Brooklyn, so that it can be 
cooked in half an hour, and used in every way that rice, 
oatmeal, barley, tapioca, sago or any similar article can be 
used. Boiled and eaten with milk and sugar, it is very 
palatable, and when cold, sliced and fried, it is an excel- 
lent dish. 

Beans and Peas. 

Of these the venerable agricultural philosopher before 
quoted remarks : 

Every family should eat beans and peas, because of all 
articles they afford the most nutriment for the least money. 

One pound of cheap meat, say at ten cents, and one 
pound of split peas, say five cents, will give a fuller dinner 
to a family than a dollar expended for beefsteak and white 
bread. This is a kind of economy that should be known 
and rigidly practised. 

One bushel of white beans will feed more laboring men 
than eight bushels of potatoes. The beans will cost two 
dollars, potatoes six. 



138 H03IE C031F0RTS. 

A single quart of beans costs nine cents ; a lialf pound 
of salt pork, six cents; a pound of hominy, five cents; and 
that will give a meal to a larger family than a dollar's 
worth of roast beef, white bread, potatoes and other vege- 
tables. 

Peas are a little more costly than beans, but some think 
they will go further. 

How to Cook Pork and Beans. 

Pork and beans has long been a favorite article of food 
in New England. This dish is made, according to Pro- 
fessor Blot, as follows : 

Soak a quart of beans, if old, for twenty-four hours in 
cold water, then boil gently till tender. Never put any 
salt to boil dry beans, but as soon as boiled tender, drain 
them. Cut in dice about half a pound of bacon, and put 
it in a saucepan on the fire ; when about half fried, add 
the beans, mix and stir for one minute, then put in a warm 
oven for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally ; when done, 
sprinkle over it some parsley chopped fine, pepper and salt 
to taste if not salt enough. 

Anothei' Method. — Two quarts of middling-sized M-hite 
beans, two pounds of salt pork, and one spoonful of mo- 
lasses. Pick the beans over carefully, wash, and add a 
gallon of boiling hot soft M'ater; let them soak in it over 
night. In the morning put them in fresh water, and boil 
them gently till the skin is very tender and about to break. 
Take up dry and put them in your dish ; stir in your 
molasses, gash the pork, and put it down in the dish, so as 
to have the beans cover all but the upper surface; turn in 
boiling water till the top is just covered; bake with a 
steady fire four or five hours. Watch them, and add more 



CHEAP LIVING. 139 

water from time to time as it dries away. The molasses 
may be omitted. 

Indian Corn. 

Tliis is another article that furnishes a large amount of 
nutriment for little money. It has always been a favorite 
dish in the Southern States, where the cooking of it is best 
understood. The first great error usually made in pre- 
jiaring corn meal is in grinding it too fine, and the next 
in not cooking; it enough. Coarse corn meal makes the 
sweetest mush. Corn meal for mush should boil two 
hours ; it is better if boiled four, and not fit to be eaten 
if boiled less than one hour. 

To make Corn Bread. — Put a quart of Indian meal into 
a wooden bowl, with as much salt as can be taken up with 
the thumb and fingers, that is, about a teaspoonful ; then 
add as much sweet milk as will make it up into adherent 
dough, of which take up a double handful, laying it over 
on one hand and thus carry it to the pan or skillet for 
baking; turn it in with one pat of the hand, and so on, 
until the vessel is full ; and with a good heat, let it remain 
until the crust is a yellowish brown ; put it on the table 
piping hot, press it open, lay in a large lump of grass 
butter, just made, and it is ready for demolition. Corn 
bread is best if eaten while hot ; it becomes sodden if it cools. 
The milk supersedes the use of lard or butter; no water is 
needed, although many use butter and water instead of 
milk; but the true constituents of a pone of bread are 
meal, milk, salt, nothing else. If you add eggs, it becomes 
Johnny-cake, and is no longer a pone of bread. 

A more simple, healthful, nutritious, and agreeable 
article of bread, is, in our opinion, never made. The 
roughness of the meal particles gives the advantage of brown 



140 HOME COMFORTS. 

bread ; its natural sweetness makes sugar or molasses un- 
necessary ; while the sweet milk answers all the purpose 
of soda or cream of tartar. 

A Keceipt for Indian Pudding. 
Three and a half pounds of corn (Indian) meal and a 
handful of salt, one teaspoonful or not, we would prefer 
not, of carbonate of soda. Mix well, and pour over it a 
suffi.'ient amount of boiling water to soften the whole, then 
pour on a quart of cold water; sprinkle over it three- 
quarters of a pound of dry flour, and stir it well. Divide 
into five puddings; put each into a floured cloth, tie tight, 
put in boiling water, and boil three hours; eat it hot, or 
cold, or fried. It is said that this will give a family of 
twelve pei'sons two hearty meals, ut a cost of twenty-five 
cents. It is eaten w^ith syrup. 

How to Cook Hominy. 

By hominy is meant grains of white corn from which the 
hull and chit, or eye, have been removed, leaving the grains 
almost whole. Solon Robinson says, that not one person 
in a hundred knows how to cook hominy, and gives this as 
the proj)er way, which he learned in the land Avhere " hog 
and hominy " are understood. 

Wash slightly in cold water, and soak twelve hours in 
tepid, soft water ; then boil slowly from three to six hours 
in same water, with plenty more added from time to time, 
with great care to prevent burning. Don't salt while cook- 
ing, as that or hard water will harden the corn ; so it will 
peas or beans, green or dry, and rice also. 

When done, add butter and salt ; or a better way is to 
let each one season to suit the taste. It may be eaten with 
meat, in lieu of vegetables, or with milk, sugar, or syrup. 



CHEAP LIVING. 141 

It is good, hot or cold, and tlie more frequently it is warmed 
over ; it is like the old-fashioned pot of 

" Bean porridge Ixot, or bean porridge cold, 
Bean porridge best at nine days old." 

So is hominy. It is good always, and very wholesome, 
and, like tomatoes, only requires to be eaten once or twice 
to fix the taste in its favor. 

Eice and Lentils. 

Two-fifths of the human family it has been calculated 
make rice their principal article of food, but like superfine 
flour, it is almost entirely starch, and therefore for mental 
or muscular strength it is one of the poorest of the common 
articles of nutritive food, and those who live exclusively 
upon it are generally weak and effeminate. It is useful, 
however, to eat with meat, or in case of sickness, where lit- 
tle sustenance is required, and when properly prepared, it 
is very palatable. 

Rice may be boiled in various ways, or rather with sev- 
eral ingredients. In Italy they boil it with ham, sausage, 
and sometimes Parmesan cheese, and it may be made into 
cakes, croquettes, fritters, or into pudding. The following 
is a recipe 

To Make a Eice Pudding Without Eggs. 

Wash a half pound of rice, and put it in a broad shallow 
tin pan holding four quarts, with a large teacupful of sugar 
and a half teaspoonful of salt. Fill the pan up with milk, 
fresh from the cow is best, and set in the oven or stove to 
bake, stirring it occasionally, and trying the rice. When 
the latter is soft, and begins to thicken the milk, the pud- 



142 HOME COMFORTS. 

ding is done. If it boils too long, or there is too much rice 
in it, it will be too thick to be good. 

Lentils are not much kno"\vn in America, but in the East 
they are used largely in connection with rice, supplying the 
muscle-making elements in which rice is deficient. Pro- 
fessor Blot pronounces them an excellent vegetable, and 
says they are prepared Kke dry beans in every way. Many 
persons think them much dearer than beans or peas, not 
knowing that they swell three or four times their size 
when soaked in water before cooking them. A 'puree of 
lentils is excellent with almost every kind of meat, and it 
also makes a good soup. 

A good supper or dinner may be had from a bowl of 

Farmer's Rice. 

Take a quart of milk, and put it on to boil in a pot of 
sufficient size. Mix two eggs thoroughly in a pint of flour, 
and when the milk has begun to boil, sprinkle this into 
the milk, and stir constantly. When well boiled, transfer 
to a deep dish, and make it very sweet with brown sugar. 
Grate some nutmeg over the surface. 

A Plum Pudding for the Million. 

Soyer gives the following receipt for a pudding, which, 
he says, will cost only sixteen pence to malvje one large 
enough to supply ten or twelve people. 

Put in a basin a potind of flour, half a pound of stoned 
raisins, ditto of currants, ditto of chopped suet, two table- 
spoonfuls of treacle, and half a pint of water. Mix all well, 
put in a cloth or mould, and boil from four and a half to 
five hours. For sauce, take melted butter, sugar, and juice 
of lemon, if handy. A little spice, or a few drops of any 



CHEAP LIVING. 143 

essence, or lemon peel chopped, and a little brandy or rum 
will be an improvement. 

Oatmeal. 

Oatmeal is especially rich in food for muscles and brains, 
and this may explain the reason of the fact that Scotchmen, 
who are raised principally on oatmeal porridge and oat- 
meal cakes, are remarkable fo.r mental and physical activity. 
It is said to contain the most material for hard work of any 
known grain, while, at the same time, it is about the cheap- 
est of foods. In the form of cakes. Oatmeal, it is claimed, 
is as good as buckwheat, and in the form of porridge it is 
es2)ecially healthy for children. 

The best way to make porridge is to mix the oatmeal 
with warm water; strain the batter, pour it into a farina- 
boiler (a tin utensil enclosed in a larger one, with space be- 
tween the two for boiling water), and then leave it on the 
fire for an hour and a half. It needs no stirring, and will 
be found cooked to a perfect jelly, free from lumps. 

Economical Meats. 

When the best beefsteak is selling at twenty cents a 
pound, the butchers are glad to sell the " rein " piece at 
eight or ten cents a pound. It has no bone or fat, and 
three pounds of it for twenty-five cents will make soup 
enough for a family of eight or ten persons two days, be- 
sides furnishing enough meat for a dinner. 

Of all the parts of corned beef, that is the most nutritious 
and cheapest which is called the round, for it has neither 
bone nor gristle, nor waste fat worth naming. Both in the 
purchase of meat and fish, persons are generally falsely 
economical in choosing an article with bone in it, at two or 
three cents a pound less than a piece which has none. They 



144 EOME COMFORTS. 

purchase porgies, blue fish, flounders, and the like, at six 
or eight cents a pound, instead of halibut at twelve cents 
(wholesale), but the halibut is the cheapest, and also the 
safest, where there are children. 

Beef Stew. 

A very economical and most savory and delicious dish, 
says some one, can be made with two or three pounds of 
chuck steak (a cheap kind of beef), which infinitely sur- 
passes the tasteless, insipid, eating-house stuff, called beef 
a la mode. Out the steak into pieces two inches square ; 
put thein into a saucepan, with a large breakfast cup of cold 
water; put it on the fire; as soon as it boils up, stand it 
on the hole to simmer, for two hours, until perfectly 
tender. While simmering, put in, tied up with a bit of thread 
or cotton, a bunch of herbs, composed of knotted marjoram, 
winter savory, and a little thyme; take this out just before 
the dish is served. Of course the stew must be occasionally 
shaken, as all others are ; the more fat there is, the better is 
the stew. This dish is of Italian origin, and in that coun- 
try is eaten with plain boiled maecaroni and Parmesan 
cheese, or with salad, and with either is "a dainty dish to 
set before a king." 

A good and economical breakfast dish is made of 

Fried Kashers of Bacon and Poached Eggs. 

Cut the bacou into thin slices ; trim and cut off the rind. 
Put it into a cold frying-pan — that is to say, do not place 
the pan on the fire before the bacou is in it. Turn It two 
or three times, and dish it on a very hot dish. Poach the 
eggs, and slip them on to the bacon without breaking the 
yolks, and serve quickly. Time, three or four minutes. 
Allow six eggs for three persons. 



CHEAP LIVING. 145 

An excellent family dish, very savory, and which can be 
recommended also for its cheapness and economy, is 

Koasted Oxheart Stuffed. 

Put the heart into warm water to soak for two hours ; 
then wipe it well with a cloth, and, after cutting off the 
lobes, stuff the inside with a highly seasoned forcemeat, 
made, for instance, from six ounces of bread crumbs, two 
eggs, two ounces of ham or lean bacon, quarter of a pound 
of suet, the rind of half a lemon, one teaspoonful of minced 
parsley, one teaspoonful of minced sweet herbs, salt, cayenne, 
and mace to taste. Fasten this stuffing in with a needle 
and coarse thread ; tie the heart up in buttered paper, and 
set it before a good fire, being very particular to keep it 
well basted, or it will eat dry, there being but very little 
of its own fat. Two or three minutes before serving, re-. 
move the paper, baste well, and serve with good gravy, and 
red-currant jelly or melted butter. If the heart is very 
large, it will require two hours, and covered with a caul, 
may be baked as well as roasted. Cost of heart, twenty 
cents, and sufficient for six or eight persons. Seasonable 
all the year. 

A Genuine Pepper Pot. 

This soup, which is of West Indian origin, should be 
made in an earthen pot, which always remains by the side 
of the fire, where the contents simmer, but do not boil. 
These should consist of an equal admixture of fish, flesh, 
fowl, and vegetables, seasoned with chilli, or Cayenne pep- 
per and salt, the only attention it requires being occasional 
skimming, and the addition of a little water when it gets 
too dry. As it should at all times be simmering by the 
12 



146 H03IE COMFORTS. 

fire, a good meal is always ready for any guest that may 
chance to come uninvited. 

A Scotch proverb says, They hae need o' a canny cook 
wha hae but ae egg to their dinner. 

Cold Meat Cookery. 

This is a field that offers many resources for economical 
living to those that understand the art of thrifty house- 
keeping. In the opinion of most American housekeepers, 
roast or boiled meat left over is good for nothing except to 
be eaten cold or thrown to the dogs. A few of them know 
that it can be made into a plain hash, but this is the ex- 
treme limit of their knowledge in this particular. Those 
who would learn what savory dishes can be made of cold 
roast or boiled beef, mutton, veal, and poultry, should con- 
sult Mrs. Beeton's "Englishwoman's Cookery Book." No 
other work that we know of is so complete in its directions 
for cooking cold meats, and with its aid a thrifty house- 
keeper, w'ho could secure from her more ignorant or lavish 
neighbors a supply of cold meats at a small expense, could 
support a family of three or four persons for a trifle per day. 

What can bo done with cold roast beef? It can be broiled 
with mushroom or oyster sauce ; it can be made into beef 
fritters, beef rissoles, beef rolls, into hashed beef, minced 
beef, potted beef, and beef ragout. Cut into slices, and 
with some herbs and vegetables and mashed potatoes, it 
can be baked into a pie. Cold boiled beef, fried in a little 
butter, and covered with fried greens, constitutes the hered- 
itary English dish known as "bubble and squeak." Cold 
mutton can be broiled, and with tomato sauce, makes an 
excellent dish, if served hot. Cold mutton may be made 
into very fair pies, if well seasoned, and mixed with a few 



CHEAP LIVING. 147 

nerbs, or it can be made into " hodge podge," " toad-in-tbe- 
hole," ragout, or baked minced mutton. Cold veal can be 
made into Scotch collops, or veal cake, or pie, or fried i)at- 
ties, or ragout, or rissoles, or rolls, or minced with vege- 
tables or raaccaroni. Cold poit/^ry can be made into French 
chicken cutlets, chicken salad, curried fowl, hashed, fricas- 
seed, fried, minced, into a ragout of fowl, or fowl saute 
with peas, or croquettes. Even cold pork may be cut into 
nice-sized cutlets, put into a stew-pan with butter, and 
cliopped onions, and fried, and when properly seasoned, 
will make a savory and economical dish. 

Soyer's Thirty Eeceipts in One. 

Put a pound of the crumbs of bread to soak in cold water, 
or better, in milk ; take the same quantity of any kind of 
boiled or roasted meat, a little fat, which chop in dice rather 
fine; press the water out of the bread ; put in the pan two 
ounces of butter, lard, or dripping, with two teaspoonfuls 
of chopped onions ; fry two minutes ; add the bread ; stir 
with a wooden spoon until rather dry; then add the meat; 
season with a teaspoon ful of salt, half of pepper, a little 
grated nutmeg, if handy; stir till quite hot; then add two 
eggs, one at a time; mix very quick, and pour on dish to 
cool. Then roll it into the shape of small eggs, then in 
flour ; Qgg them and bread crumb ; fry a nice yellow 
color, and serve plain, or with any sauce you may fancy. 

Anything eatable, the remains of meat, poultry, game, 
or fish, may be used up in this way. 

While considering the subject of economy in food, M^e 
may as well here allude to one or two other points ; as, for 
instance, 



148 HOME COMFOBTS. 

Coffee Substitutes. 

French cooks, who are celebrated for making good coffee, 
mix three or four different kinds, and recommend as a good 
proportion, to add to one pound of Java about four ounces 
of Mocha and four ounces of one or two other kinds. It is 
said that from tliree parts of Rio, with two parts of Old 
Government Java, a coffee can be made quite as good, if 
not superior, to that made of Java alone. 

Wheat coffee, made of a mixture of eight quarts of wheat 
to one pound of real coffee, is said to afford a beverage quite 
as agreeable as the unadulterated Rio, besides being much 
more wholesome. It is probably known to many that a 
very large per cent, of the ground coffee sold at the stores 
is common field peas roasted and ground with genuine cof- 
fee. There are hundreds of thousands of bushels of peas 
annually used for that pur}K)se. Those who are in the 
habit of purchasing ground coffee can do better to buy their 
own peas, burn and grind them, and mix to suit themselves. 

Sturgeon Veal Cutlets. 

There are few persons so poor that they will consent to eat 
sturgeon, yet this fish, if properly cooked, affords it is said 
a luxurious meal. Get a few slices, moderately thick, says 
Mather, put them in a pot or pan of water, and parboil 
them to get rid of the oil ; then roll in crumbs of cracker 
and egg, just as you would a veal cutlet, and fry. This 
makes a veal cutlet that beats the original by far, and you 
are sure that it is full "six weeks old," as the butcher 
always certifies in regard to the veal 



CHEAP LIVING. 149 

Vegetable Beefsteaks. 
Dr. Badhara, of England, thinks lie has discovered a 
large supply of excellent and cheap food in the mosses and 
fungi that grow upon trees. He says, " I have indeed 
grieved when I reflected on the straitened condition of 
the poorer classer, to see pounds innumerable of extempore 
beefsteaks growing on our oaks in the shape offstulina hepa- 
tica — puff balls — which some of our friends have not in- 
aptly compared to sweetbread for the rich delicacy of their 
unassisted flavor. It varies in size from that of a small 
kidney to an irregular mass of many pounds weight. 
When grilled, it is scarcely to be distinguished from broiled 
meat. No fungus yields a richer gravy. It is to be found 
in England, principally on the old oak trees, throughout 
the summer in great abundance. But we spurn the vege- 
table beefsteak, as we have spurned the horsesteak and the 
ass steak. And so the ignorant and poor are left hungering in 
the micht of plenty, praying against famine in the village 
church, with plenty rotting in the woods and meadows round 
about the parish," 



CHAPTER IX. 

VALUABLE SECRETS KNOWN TO GOOD COOKS. 

"Bad cooking is waste — waste of money and loss of comfort. Whom 
God has joined in matrimony, ill-cooked joints and ill-boiled potatoes 
have very often put asunder." — Smiles. 

" There is a great deal of good eating and drinking in seven hundred 
a year, if peojole knew how to manage it." — Macaulay. 

re 

f^S. WARREN, in one of her works, relates an inter- 
view she had with a friend, who expressed deep re- 
gret that she had not learned the art of cookery 
•^ before she had married, and who wished that all 
the time she had wasted in illuminating texts of Scripture 
had been spent in illuminating instructions to promote house- 
hold comfort. This suggestion stimulated her imagination, 
and she saw, or fancied she saw, that very great benefit 
might be derived both to mistresses and the "help" if 
handsomely printed cards were hung up in the kitchen, 
containing general directions for cooking meats, soups, fisli, 
game, and poultry, for boiling vegetables and making 
pastry, in a word, the points that constitute good cookery. 
The idea is a valuable one, and in our researches among the 
works of the masters of the art, we have had in view the 
preparation of a code of standard rules, or what might be 
called Family Kitchen Maxims. 
150 



VALUABLE SECliETS, 131 



How to Boil, Fry, Eoast, etc. 

All the essential operations in cookery are comprised in 
Baking, Boiling, Broiling, Frying, Roasting, Stew- 
ing, SiM.MERiNG, and Seasoning ; the rest are all fancy, 
though the French have what they call Braising, in 
which they have a fire both above and under the braising- 
pan ; and sauteing, which is frying in a very small quan- 
tity of butter or fat. 

In Baking meats or fish, it is important not only to 
keep the bottom of the pan covered with broth or water, 
but to place a piece of buttered paper over the object in the 
pan, which keeps the top moist and juicy, and acts as a 
self-baster. Soyer recommends in using dishes for the 
oven, if of metal, that "they may be made of galvanized 
iron, and to have separate ones for meat and fish. 

In Boiling meats it is the general practice to put all, 
whether fresh or salted, into nearly boiling water, and 
from those that are very salty, careful cooks throw off the 
first water, and fill up again with boiling water. But the 
modern theory is, that fresh meat, if intended for soup, 
should be put into cold Avater, and if not intended for soup, 
into boiling water; and that salt meat should be put into 
warm, or, if very salt, into cold water, in order that by its 
slow cooking the salt may be extracted. After the water 
has boiled up rapidly, the pot should be drawn back, and 
its contents allowed to simmer gently. Simmering is 
simply slow boiling. 

Always boil cabbages in two waters, and to prevent the 
disagreeable odor which arises from boiling cabbages, cut 
the head in half, and pour boiling water on it before 
cooking. 



lo2 HOME COMFORTS. 

In boiling peas and potatoes do not bury tliem in water, 
nor allow tiiem to remain in water afler they are done. 

In BiiOiLiNG, it is important to grease the bars of the 
gridiron first, and have the fire brisk and clear. A layer 
of coke or charcoal over a pretty strong fire is a good plan. 
There is a great difference of opinion among professional 
cooks, whether in broiling a beefsteak it should be turned 
only once, or often, but the weight of authority is in favor 
of frequent turning. Soyer says, " My plan is to turn it 
often, and my reason is, that, if turned but once, the albu- 
men and fibrine of the meat get charred, and the heat throws 
out the osmazome, or gravy, on the upper side, which, 
when turned over, goes into the fire ; by turning it often, 
so as at first only to set the outside, the g^avy goes into the 
centre, and it becomes evenly done throughout. As regards 
the thickness of the meat to be broiled, that depends on the 
intensity of the fire (three-quarters of an inch is a good 
thickness for rump steak), but the quicker the better, and 
also the sooner it is eaten after taken from the fire the 
better." 

[Macbetli's receipt for broiling a beefsteak is a very good 
one. 

"When 'tis done, 'twere well 
It 'twere done quickhj."'] 

Broiling and roasting are essentially the same, though 
properly roasting is clone before the fire and broiling over 
the fire. 

Frying, as understood by professional cooks, is to im- 
merse the article in boiling grease ; in other M'ords, they 
take a pan, say six inches deep, nearly fill it wdtli fat, and 
when boiling, insert in this the article to be fried, so that it 
is completely covered wath the fat. " Those articles to be 
fried," says Soyer, " are generally those that have a coating 



VALUABLE SECBETS. 153 

of materials (such as bread crumbs and batter), which are 
quickly carbonized, and thus form a crust, which prevents 
the grease penetrating, concentrates the liquids, and pre- 
serves the flavor of the article ; the carbonization once 
effected, the fire should be immediately moderated, particu- 
larly if the article is large, in order that the interior may 
become properly solidified. All articles properly fried are 
generally much liked, as they are agreeable to the eye and 
afford a pleasing variety." 

American cooks, however, understand by frying what 
the French call sauteing : that is, cooking an article in a 
shallow pan, with a small quantity of fat, one side at a time. 
The secret of doing this well consists in doing it quickly, 
to keep the gravy and succulence in the meat which a slow 
process would nullify, and is of course confined to small 
articles of food. 

It is important in frying that the pan be perfectly clean, 
that the oil or drippings be sweet and fresh, and that the 
fat be boiling before the meat or fish is put into it. A 
good way to test the heat of your fat is to throw a little bit 
of bread into the pan : if it fries crisp, the fat is of the right 
heat ; if it burns the bread, it is too hot. When the articles 
are done, care must .be taken to drain all the fat from them 
most thoroughly. 

The grand point in frying is to get the boiling fat to 
seize the article fried, i. e., to form a brown crust all over 
its surface at the very instant of immersion. The seizing 
cannot take place unless the fat has been over a sharp fire 
a sufficient time. When once the seizing is properly 
effected, the pan may be raised or withdrawn a little, to let 
the article cook through without burning outside. Articles 
properly fried are not greasy, while badly fried things are 
the reverse. A well-fried fish will hardly soil a napkin ; 



1 



154 H03fE COMFORTS. 

potatoes properly fried may be eaten like a biscuit, without 
soiling the fingers. 

Careful cooks save their frying fat and use it repeatedly, 
keeping that used for meats and fish in separate jars. 
Economical cooks seldom buy fat ; generally there is 
enough left from skimming broth, sauces and gravies for 
every purpose. When they do make it, they use beef suet, 
the part around the kidneys, or any kind of fat, raw or 
cooked, chop it fine, boil for fifteen minutes, skim well, 
strain, and put in stone jars. This fat, for frying, it is 
claimed, is better than lard, and it does not fly over the pan 
like lard. 

In ROASTING meats, slow roasting, like slow boiling, is 
the best. The more meat is basted, the less time it will 
require to roast. When the meat is half done, the fire 
should be stirred to burn brightly and clearly for browning. 
Nearly all the writers on Cookery think fifteen minutes for 
each pound is a proper time to allow in roasting, but a great 
deal depends upon the nature of the fire and the meat. A 
good cook will be particular to place a pan so as to catch 
the dripping. [See the English method of roasting beef, in 
next chapter.] 

Veal, fowls and rabbits, when roasted^ should always be 
covered with bacon fat, and then be well floured before 
putting to the fire; by so doing, all the juices of the meat 
or poultry are kept in, and it does not become dry. One 
of the secrets of the excellence of French cookery is, to cut 
up shreds of bacon and tie them around the article to be 
roasted. 

In STEWING, it is necessary to have a moderate fire, and 
as even as possible. A brisk fire causes the steam to evap- 
orate, and this steam is the flavor of the article stewed. 



VALUABLE SECRETS. 155 

Soyer says stewing should be done slowly, the pan partly 
uncovered and frequently skimmed. 

In SEASONING, the senses of tasting and smelling must 
be employed, and the art consists in so proportioning the 
flavors, that no one may predominate or be tasted more 
than another. Consult, in seasoning, the tastes of those for 
whom you cook rather than your own. Be moderate in 
the use of salt, for it is easy to add salt to a dish which is 
too fresh, but if once made too salt it cannot be remedied. 

Beef and mutton are best when rather underdone, but 
pork, veal, poultry, beef's tongue, tripe, and young meats 
generally, must be thoroughly well cooked. Vegetables, 
when not sufficiently cooked, are exceedingly unwholesome 
and indigestible. 

Wash greens carefully, first in warm water, to remove dirt 
and insects, and then plunge them into cold water, which 
will immediately restore their crispness. Mrs. Warren 
astonished her cook by doing this. 

For all vegetables have plenty of boiling water and salt. 
Make them boil up very quickly. Take all greens out of 
the water the instant they are done. Mash all vegetables 
with a wooden spoon. 

In addition to some of the foregoing, the Illuminated 
Family Kitchen Monitor should contain the following 
points of 

Good Advice to Hired Cooks. 

1. Accustom yourself to look upon your business as akin 
to a profession. The kitchen is a family laboratory, and a 
good cook should be a chemist. Read all the best books 
on the art of Cookery, select and adopt what seems to you 
good in each, and especially study " Home Comforts." 



156 HOME COMFOBTS. 

2. Cleanliness, not only in the kitchen utensils, but in 
your dress and person, is the first lesson in cookery. 
Dough-boards and rolling-pins should be well scoured in 
hot water, but no soap, or sand or stone dust of any kind 
should be used. Do not allow food to become cold in any 
metal vessel, especially no liquid food, in any brass or copper 
pot or pan, after it is cooked, or it may absorb rust and 
poison the family. Do not clean bottles with lead shot for 
the same reason. 

3. A good cook regards the appearance as well as the 
quality of the dishes she sends to the table. A beefsteak 
trimmed oval, surrounded by nicely browned fried potatoes, 
and garnished with parsley, is really more digestible as 
well as sightly than a rough, scraggy steak dished without 
regard to appearance. Veal cutlets should be cut round, 
about three inches in diameter, and done very quickly. 

4. Not only should meats, etc., look well on the table, but 
they should be hot. Nothing can be more repugnant to the 
taste than lukewarm soup or meat, while fish is made utterly 
worthless by being allowed to become cool. 

5. Punctuality in having meals at the appointed hours 
is a sterling virtue. Having things ready that can be pre- 
pared beforehand prevents hurry and secures punctuality. 
By stuffing a fowl overnight (except in very hot weather), 
and trussing it, not only can it be put to the fire at a min- 
ute's notice, but the flavor of the stuffing will have time to 
penetrate to the flesh. 

6. Guard against unnecessary waste. good cook has 
very few waste articles. The clippings and trimmings of 
fresh meat will make soups and gravies ; the fat can be 



VALUABLE SECRETS. 157 

melted for dripping, whicli will save lard in frying ; the 
bones can be made into soups and gravy; the bacon fat will 
come useful in pastry, while pieces of stale bread can be 
made into excellent puddings. 

7. Before cooking meat or vegetables, a good cook under- 
stands what kind of fire is required, and prepares accord- 
ingly. Half an hour before broiling a steak stir up the 
fire, clear away the ashes, rake out all dead cinders from 
the bottom, and secure a good, clear fire for the gridiron. 

8. Provide yourself with serviceable cooking aprons, 
made with bibs. These will save your gown, and keep 
you neat and clean. Have them made large enough, so as 
to nearly meet behind. 

9. Do not scrub the inside of your frying-pans, as after 
this operation any preparation fried, is liable to catch or 
bum to the pan. If the pan has become black inside, rub 
it with a hard crust of bread and wash in hot water, mixed 
with a little soda. 

10. Few cooks make really good, quick biscuit. The 
connnon fault is to use soda too freely, and to "guess at" 
the quantities instead of measuring them. 



To Neutralize the Acid in Fruits. 

A large quantity of the free acid which exists in rhubarb, 
gooseberries, currants, and other fruits, may be judiciously 
corrected by the use of a small quantity of carbonate of soda, 
without the least affecting their flavor. To an ordinary 
sized pie or pudding take as much soda as, piled up, will 
cover a shilling, or even twice such quantity, if the fruit be 
13 



lo8 H03fE COMFORTS. 

very sour. If this little hint is attended to, many a stom- 
ach-ache will be prevented and a vast quantity of sugar 
saved, because, when the acid is neutralized by the soda, it 
M'ill not require so much sugar to render the pie sweet. 

There is a French motto, Ne touchez pas a la broche — 
Do not touch the spit ; which probably means " Leave the 
making of cookery books to cooks." We concede the wis- 
dom of the advice, and do not ])ropose to touch the spit ; 
but in our researches among the writings of these learned 
professors, we have discovered some things which promise 
to improve the methods of preparing common articles, as 
practised in American and Englisli households; and so 
great is the need of improvement, that it Mould be rank 
injustice to withhold them. First, 

How to Make Good Family Bread. 

The books abound in directions for making bread, and 
all the authors agree that good flour, and good yeast, and 
plenty of kneading, are essential ; yet probably nothing 
was ever published on the subject so comprehensive, 
minute, and practical as the following directions, taken 
from Marion Harland's new work on Common Sense in 
the Household. She says : 

[Chiefest among the conditions to good bread, I place 
good "family" flour — dry, elastic, and odorless. Next in 
importance to the quality of the flour is that of the yeast. 
This should be light in color and lively, effervescing 
easily when shaken, and emitting an odor like weak am- 
monia. If dull or sour, it is bad. In cities it is easiest, 
perhaps cheajiest, to buy yeast from a brewery or bakery, 



VALUABLE SECliETS. 159 

exercising yonr discrimination as to quality. Unless you 
can satisfy yourself in this respect, you had better make 
your own from tlie following receipt for 

Hop Yeast. 
Four large potatoes, or six small. 
Two quarts cold water. 

Double handful hops, tied in a coarse muslin bag. 
Four tablespoonfuls flour. 
Two tablespoonfuls white sugar. 

Peel the potatoes, and put them, with the hop-bag, into a 
saucepan containing two quarts cold water. Cover and 
boil until the potatoes break and fall apart. Take these 
out with a perforated skimmer, leaving the water still boil- 
ing, mash them fine with a potato-beetle, and work in the 
flour and sugar. Moisten this gradually with the boiling 
hop tea, stirring it to a smooth paste. When all the tea 
has been mixed in, set it aside to cool. While still warm, 
add four tablespoonfuls of lively yeast, and turn all into a 
large open vessel to "work." Keep this in a warm place 
until it ceases to bubble up, or until next day. In summer 
it will work well in a few hours. When quite light, put 
in earthen jars with small mouths, in which fit corks, or 
bottle it, and remove to ice-house or cellar. It will keep 
good for a fortnight — longer in winter. When you wish 
to use it for baking, send a small vessel to the cellar for the 
desired quantity, and re-cork at once. A half-hour in a 
hot kitchen may spoil it. 

Potato Yeast. 
Six potatoes, two quarts cold water, 4 tablespoonfuls of 
flour, two of white sugar. Peel and boil the potatoes until 



160 JI03IE COMFORTS. 

they break. Leaving the water on the fire, take them ont 
and mash fine, with the flour and sugar, wetting gradually 
with the hot water, until it is all used. When lukewarm, 
add a gill of good yeast, and set aside in an open vessel 
and warm place to ferment. When it ceases to effervesce, 
bottle and set in ice-house. This yeast is very nice and 
white, and is preferred by many who dislike the bitter 
taste of hops. It is also convenient to make when hops 
cannot be obtained. 

Potato Bread Sponge. 

Six potatoes, boiled and mashed while hot; six table- 
spoonfuls baker's yea-st, two of Avhite sugar, two of lard, 
one teaspoonful soda, one quart of warm (not hot) water, 
three cups of flour. 

Mash the potatoes, and work in the lard and sugar. 
Stir to a cream, mixing in gradually a quart of the water 
in which the potatoes were boiled, which should have been 
poured out to cool down to a blood warmth. Beat in the 
flour, already wet up with a little potato-water to prevent 
lamping, then the yeast, lastly the soda. Cover lightly, if* 
the weather is warm ; more closely in winter ; and set to 
rise overnight in a warm place. 

Bread Sponge (Plain). 

One quart of warm water, six tablespoonfuls baker's 
yeast, two of lard, two of wdiite sugar, one teaspoonful of 
soda, and flour to make a soft batter. Melt the lard in the 
warm water, add the sugar, then the flour by degrees, stir- 
ring in smoothly. A quart and a pint of flour will usually 
be sufficient, if the quality is good. Next comes the yeast, 
lastly the soda. Beat up hard for several minutes, and set 
to rise as above. Bread mixed with potato sponge is more 



VALUABLE SECRETS. IGl 

nutritious, keeps fresh longer, and is sweeter than that 
made with the plainer sponge. But there are certain 
seasons of the year when good old potatoes cannot be pro- 
cured, and new ones will not do for this purpose. Tlie 
potato sponge is safer, because surer, for beginners in the 
important art of bread-making. After using it for fifteen 
years, I regard it as almost infallible — given the conditions 
of good flour, yeast, kneading and baking. 

Family Bread (White\ 
Having set your sponge overnight, or, if you bake late 
in the afternoon, early in the morning, sift dry flour into a 
deep bread tray, and strew a few spoonfuls of fine salt over 
it. The question of the quantity of flour is a delicate one, 
requiring judgment and experience. Various brands of 
flour are so unequal with respect to the quantity of gluten 
they contain, that it is impossible to give any invariable 
rule on this subject. It will be safe, however, to sift two 
quarts and a pint, if you have set the potato sponge ; two 
quarts for the plain. This will make two good-sized 
loaves. Make a hole in the middle of the heap, pour in 
the risen sponge (which should be very light, and seamed 
in many places on the top), and work down the flour into 
it with your hands. If too soft, add more flour. If you 
can mould it at all, it is not too soft. If stiff, rinse out the 
bowl in which the sponge Avas set with a little lukewarm 
water, and work this in. When you have it in manage- 
able shape, begin to knead. Work the mass into a ball — 
your hands having been well floured from the first; detach 
it from the tray, and lift it in your left hand, while you 
sprinkle flour with the right thickly over the bottom and 
sides of the tray. Toss back the ball into this, and knead 
hard — always towards the centre of the mass, which should 



162 II02IE COMFORTS. 

be repeatedly turned over and around, that every portion 
may be manipulated. Brisk and long kneading makes the 
pores fine and regular. Gaping holes of divers sizes are 
an unerring telltale of a careless cook. Spend at least 
twenty minutes — half an hour is better — in this kind of 
useful gymnastics. It is grand exeniise for arms and chest. 
This done, work the dough into a shapely ball in the centre 
of the tray, sprinkle flour over the top ; throw a cloth over 
all, and leave it on the kitchen tal)le to rise, taking care it 
is not in a draught of cold air. In summer it will rise in 
four or five hours — in winter, six are often necessary. It 
should come up steadily until it at least trebles its original 
bulk, and the floured surface cracks all over. Knead again 
for ten or fifteen minutes. Then divide it into as many 
parts as you wish loaves, and put these in well-greased pans 
for the final rising. 

In a large household baking, it is customary to mould 
the dough into oblong rolls, three or four, according to the 
number of loaves you desire, and to lay these close together 
in one large pan. The second kneading is done upon a 
floured board, and should be thorough as the first, the 
dough being continually shifted and turned. Set the pans 
in a warm place for an hour longer, Avith a cloth thrown 
over them to keep out the air and dust. Then bake, heed- 
ing the directions set down in the article u])on bread in 
general. If your ovens are in good condition, one hour 
should bake the above quantity of bread. But here again 
experience must be your guide. Note carefully for your- 
self how long a time is required for your first successful 
baking, as also how much dry flour you have worked into 
your sponge, and let these data regulate future action. I 
have known a variation of two quarts, in a large baking, 
over the usual measure of flour. I need not tell you that 



VALUABLE SECBETS. 163 

you had better shun a brand that requires such an excessive 
quantity to bring the dough to the right consistency. It 
is neither nutritious nor economical. When you nial^e out 
the loaves, prick the top with a fork. 

Novices in bread-making, and many who should have 
learned better by long experience, fall into a sad mistake 
in the consistency of the dough. It should be mixed as 
soft as it can be handled. Bread will rise sooner and 
higher, be lighter and more digestible, and keep fresh 
much lontrer, if this rule be followed. Stiff bread is close 
in texture, often waxy to the teeth, and after a day or so 
becomes very hard. Set the dough to rise in a moderately 
warm place, and keep it at an even temperature. There 
is force in the old lament, "My bread took cold last night." 
Cold arrests the process of fermentation. There is a chance, 
should this occur, that a removal to a more genial atmos- 
phere and careful nursing may cure the congestion, should 
it be only partial. Too much heat carries forward the 
w^ork too rapidly. In this case, you will find your dough 
puffy and sour. Correct the latter evil by dissolving a 
little soda or saleratus in hot water, and working it well in. 

Knead your bread faithfully, and from all sides, until it 
rebounds like india-rubber after a smart blow of the fist 
upon the centre of the mass. The oven should not be too 
hot. If you cannot hold your bare arm in it while you 
count thirty, it is too quick. Keep the heat steady after 
the bread goes in. Too nuich fire at first, and rapid cool- 
ing, produce the effect upon the bread which is technically 
called "slack-baked," i. e., the inside of the loaf is never 
properly done. Practice and intelligent observation will, 
in time, make you an adept in the management of your 
ovens. If the bread rises rapidly while baking, and the 
crust begins to form before the lower part of the loaf is 



164 11031 E COMFORTS. 

baked, cover the top with clean paper, until you arc ready 
to brown it.] 

Miss Leslie recommends, as soon as the bread is quite 
done, to wrap each loaf lightly in a clean coarse cloth, 
damped by spriiikling it with water, and stand it on its edge. 
This will prevent the crust from becoming too hard. Keep 
the loaves wrapped up after they are deposited in the 
bread box, which should be of tin. 

How to Make Stale Bread, or Cake, Fresh. 

Plunge the loaf one instant in cold water, and lay it 
Upon a tin in the stove ten or fifteen minutes. It will be 
like new bread without its deleterious qualities. Stale cake 
is thus made as nice as new cake. But bread or cake 
heated over thus, should be used immediately. 

Various Uses of Bread Dough. 

In the winter, dough may be kept sweet many days in a 
place where it will be cold, without freezing, and it will 
grow better to the last. 

It should be raised light, then kneaded a little, then 
covered with a damp cloth, so that a dry crust will not 
form on the top. 

Fresh bread can thus be furnished for the table every 
day, without extra work. Doughnuts, bread, cake, or 
rusks can be made of it by adding butter, sugar, or spice ; 
tea biscuit, also fried biscuit, crust for apple dumplings, 
and for pan-pie. 

The dough should be made, at least in part, with milk, 
when it is to be used for these purposes. These directions 
are particularly recommended to persons who do their own 
housework, and of course wish to save time and labor. 



VALUABLE SECEETS. 165 

How to Make Good Buttered Toast. A. Soyer. 

Take remnants of a loaf that have become too dry to be 
eaten as bread, dip them in warm water, place a slice of the 
bread upon the toasting-fork, about an inch from the sides, 
hold it a minute before the fire, then turn it, hold it before 
the fire another minute, by which time the bread will be 
thoroughly hot ; then begin to move it gradually to and fro 
until the whole surface has assumed a yellowish-brown 
color, when again turn it, toasting the other side in the 
same manner ; then lay it upon a hot plate, spread a piece 
of butter, rather less than an ounce, over it, and cut into 
four or six pieces. Cut each slice into pieces as soon as 
buttered, and pile them lightly upon the plate or dish you 
intend to serve it on. 

This way you will find a great improvement upon the 
old system, as often, in cutting through four or five slices 
with a bad knife, you squeeze all the butter out of the 
uj)per one, and discover the under one, at the peril of its 
life, swimming in an ocean of butter at Ihe bottom of 
the dish. 

How to Fry Ham and Eggs. 

Cut thin slices, and take off the rind ; if very salt, pour 
hot water upon them, but do not suffer them to lie long in 
it, as the juices of the meat will be lost. Wipe them in a 
cloth ; have the spider ready hot, lay in the pieces, and 
turn them in a minute or two. They will cook in a very 
short time. The secret of having good fried ham is in 
cooking it quick, and not too much. The practice of cutting 
thick slices, and laying them in a cold spider and frying a 
long time, makes ham black and hard. It needs nothing 
added, but to be laid upon a hot covered dish. 



1G6 HOME COMFORTS. 

After yon have fried liam, drop in the eggs, one at a 
time. In abont a minntc, dip the boiling fat with a spoon 
over them, again and again. This will prevent the neces- 
sity of turning them, which it is difficult to do without 
breaking the yolks. Take them out in about two minutes 
and a half, with a skimmer. The fat that roasts out of a 
ham that is browned in an oven is good for frying eggs. 

French Beef Broth and Soup. Prof. Blot. 

Take three pounds of good, lean, fresh beef, from any 
part except the shin. There must not be more than two 
ounces of bone to a pound of meat, and the less bone the 
better. Place the meat in a soup-kettle or saucepan, lined 
with tin, with three quarts of cold water, and salt, and set 
it on a good fire. xVfter about thirty minutes, the scum or 
albumen of the meat will gather on the surface, and the 
water will commence boiling. Now place the kettle on a 
more moderate fire, add one gill of cold water, and begin 
to skim off the scum, Avhich will take only a few minutes. 
Then add oiw middle-sized carrot, half of a turnip, 
one middle-sized leek, a stalk of celery, one of parsley, a 
bay-leaf, one onion with two cloves stuck in it, and two 
cloves of garlic. Keep the kettle between simmering and 
boiling; heat for about five hours. Dish the meat with 
carrot, turnip, and leek around it, and serve it as a relcve. 
Strain the broth, and it is ready for use. I do not put 
parsnips or thyme in broth, the taste of these two vegetables 
being too strong. They really neutralize the fine aroma 
of broth. 

The French use broth previously prepared in making 
potages or soups ; as, for instance, soup a la Julienne. 

Scrape two carrots and two turnips, and cut them in 
pieces about au inch and a half long; cut slices lengthwise, 



VALUABLE SECEETS. 167 

about one-eighth of an inch thick, then cut crosswise so as 
to make square strips. Put them in a saucepan, with 
about two ounces of butter, three tablespoon fu Is of cab- 
bage, chopped fine, and lialf a middling-sized onion, also 
chopped; set on the fire, and stir till about half fried. 
Add broth to make it as you wish, thin or thick; boil 
gently till done ; salt to taste, skim off the fat, and serve. 
It takes about two hours. 

How to Boil Eggs. 

The ordinary way is to put them into a cup or saucepan 
of boiling water and boil steadily for three minutes, if you 
want them soft, and ten, if hard. But gourmands like 
them best if put into cold water and left until it comes to 
a boil, which will be in about ten minutes. The inside, 
both white and yelk, will then be of the consistency of 
custard. 

Always drop hard-boiled eggs into cold water as soon as 
they are done to prevent the yelks from turning black. 

How to Eoil Potatoes. 

An English attorney used to say that a woman who 
could boil potatoes and melt butter well was a good cook, 
and he never required any other proof of the capabilities 
of a cook. 

The Irish, with whom potatoes are the national diet, 
may reasonably be supposed to know the best method of 
cooking them. This is their process: 

The potatoes, after being washed, are put into a cast-iron 
pot of cold water, slightly salted, which is placed on the 
fire. When the water boils, a small quantity of cold water 
is added to check the boiling ; this is once or twice repeated. 
When the potatoes are done, or nearly done, the water is 



168 E03IE COMFOETS. 

poured away from the potatoes, whicli are subjected to the 
fire to let the steam evaporate and make tliem mealy. They 
are served up in the usual way. During the meal only a 
portion of the potatoes are put on the table at a time, and 
before it is finished, you will have two or three supplies of 
hot potatoes, the last being better than the first, for those 
at the bottom of the pot become partially roasted. 

Whether it is better to put potatoes into cold or boiling 
water is a mooted point among good housekeepers. The 
result of experiments seems to be that Garnet, White Moun- 
tain and Early Rose potatoes are apt to dissolve in cold 
water, while Peach Blows, Prince Alberts and other late 
varieties are best cooked in cold water, ahcays jiouring off 
the hot water the instant they are done, and letting the 
potatoes dry for a few minutes. 

Potatoes should be boiled with just enough water to 
cover them. Old potatoes are best steamed ; new ones 
boiled. 

Cold potatoes left over from dinner make an excellent 
dish for breakfast by covering them with milk or cream 
in a frying pan, adding butter and salt, and let them 
remain until the milk thickens, say fifteen minutes. 

Siceet potatoes should be boiled until done, then peeled 
and cut into longitudinal slices. Then pour upon each 
slice as you lay it in the sauce-dish, gravy made in the fol- 
lowing manner : Of sugar and butter take one cup of each ; 
add half a cup of hot water, and boil until it is thick. 
This sauce is a great improvement to the sweet potato, 
and removes the dryness of that vegetable. 

How to Eoil Turnips. 

Pare them not too thickly, and instead of cutting them 
in quarters, you should cut across the turnip in thin round 



VALUABLE SECEET8. 169 

slices, not a quarter of an inch thick ; wash them well and 
put them in plenty of boiling water, with a lump of salt, 
a little piece of dripping the size of a walnut, and make 
tliem boil very fast ; in a quarter of an hour or less they 
will be ready; then drain them in a colander, mash them 
with a wooden spoon, turn them into a basin and add some 
mi'k, heat them hot in a covered basin in the oven, and 
serve them while hot in a warm dish. By this method 
eight or ten roots will go as far as double the quantity in the 
ordinary way. By adding milk instead of butter, the 
turnips are made creamy and richer, and are not liable to 
produce indigestion as when butter is used with them. 

To Cook Onions Without Smell. 

Select those that are aliks in size and not very large. 
Boil half an hour and })Our off the water. The oifensive 
oil is thus liberated by the heat and most of it goes with 
the water. Now make a dressing by adding a lump of 
butter the size of an egg to a pint of milk ; put in a little 
chopped parsley and a bit of mace. When it boils, put in 
the onions and let them steam slowly until done. When 
you take them up, open the top of each and drop in a 
small lump of butter ; eat while warm and you need have 
no misgivings about your breath ; for thus dressed they are 
as mild as baked apples and far more nutritious. 

How to Make Macaroni Cheese. 

W^eigh six ounces of macaroni and break it into short 
pieces ; wash it in hot water, and then scrape well the outer 
part of a crust or rind of cheese and grate six ounces of 
this with a coarse grater. Put the macaroni in boiling 
imter in which a piece of butter the size of a hazelnut has 
been placed, and about an ounce of salt. Boil about twenty 
14 



170 HOME COMFORTS. 

minutes, when the macaroni will be soft. Prepare some 
melted butter sauce by mixing an ounce of butter with a 
little milk, water and flour. Place a layer of cheese in the 
bottom of a well-buttered, shallow pie dish, then a layer of 
macaroni ; over this pour a little of the butter sauce, then 
a layer of cheese and again of macaroni and butter until 
the dish is full ; lastly, a thick layer of the grated cheese 
and then the butter sauce and some tiny bits of butter on 
the top. Bake the whole in an oven for three-quarters of 
an hour until the cheese is of a light golden brown. Do 
not serve at table too hot. Thus for a very small sum, a 
handsome and always welcome dish is obtainable. The 
crust of cheese cannot be made use of in any other way. 

Mrs, Lyman's Method of Cooking Salt Mackerel. 

Soak for two days, after coming out of the brine, in cold 
Water. Lay in a small tub, with the jiesh side down, and 
change the water several times. Just before cooking lay it 
in a shallow vessel and cover with hot milk. The effect 
of the milk is to remove the strong taste so unpleasant 
when this dish is carelessly cooked. Take out of the milk, 
pour water over it to rinse, and wipe dry with a napkin. 
Then lay in a wire gridiron and broil in the same manner 
as fresh shad, or fresh mackerel, and eat with lemon juice 
for sauce. 

What Good Cooks do with Cold Veal. 

They chop it very fine, and put a layer in the bottom 
of a buttered pudding dish, and season with pepper and 
salt. Next they put a layer of finely powdered crackers, 
and strew some bits of butter upon it and wet with a little 
milk. Then more veal, seasoned as before, and another 
round of cracker crumbs with butter and milk. When 



VALUABLE SECRETS. 171 

tlie di.sli is full they wet well with gravy or broth, diluted 
M'ith warm water, and spread over all a thick layer of 
cracker seasoned with salt, wet into a paste with milk and 
bound with a beaten egg or two, if the dish be large. 
Tiien they stick butter-bits thickly over it, invert a tin 
])an so as to cover and keep in the steam, and bake half an 
hour, or three-quarters if the dish be large. They remove 
the cover ten minutes before it is served, and brown. 

Tills is called " veal scallop," and is liked by children 
exceedingly, and by all who are fond of veal in any form. 
Do not get it too dry. 

How to Boil Bacon. 

Dr. Kitchiner remarks: The boiling of bacon is a very 
simple subject to comment upon ; but our main object is 
to teach the art of dressing common food in the best 
manner. Cover a pound of nice streaked bacon with cold 
witer, let it boil gently for three-quarters of an hour; 
take it up, scrape the under side well, and cut off the rind ; 
grate a crust of bread not only on the top, but all over it, 
as you would ham, put it before the fire for a few minutes, 
not too long or it will dry and spoil it. Bacon is some- 
times as salt as salt can make it, therefore before it is 
boiled, it must be soaked in warm water for an hoiir or 
two, changing the water once ; then pare off the rusty and 
smoked part, trim it nicely on the under side, and scrape 
the rind as clean as possible. 

Cabbage with Milk. 

Those who usually find cabbage an unpleasantly indi- 
gestible article of food, will be gratified with the result of 
the following mode of cooking it : 

Cut half of a solid head of cabbage fine as for slaw. 



172 HOME COMFORTS. 

Have a deep spider on the fire and hot. Put in your 
cabbage, pour quickly over it a pint of boiling water, cover 
close, and cook for ten minutes ; then pour oiF the water 
that remains and add half a pint of rich milk. When the 
milk boils up, stir in a teaspoonful of flour moistened with 
a little cream or milk, a sprinkle of salt, and cook the flour 
a minute, then dish up. 

This closely resembles cauliflower^ and is much cheaper. 

Novel Mode of Making Coffee. 

Soyer strongly advises his readers to give a trial to coffee 
made in this way : 

Put two ounces of ground coffee into a stewpan, which 
set upon the fire, stirring the powder round with a spoon 
until quite hot, when ])our over a pint of boiling water; 
cover over closely for five minutes, when strain it through 
a cloth, rinse out the stewpan, pour the coffee, Avhich will 
be quite clear, back into it, place it on the fire, and M'hen 
nearly boiling serve with hot milk. 

When the milkman fails to bring the milk or cream in 
the morning, a very good substitute for it may be made by 
beating the white of an egg to a froth, putting in it a very 
small lump of butter, and mixing well. If perfectly mixed, 
it is said to be an excellent substitute for cream. 

It is well known that the Turks excel in making coffee. 
They never grind the berry, but beat or crush it with 
wooden pestles in mortars. When the pestles have been 
long used, they become precious and arc sold at high prices. 

Brillat Savarin says he determined to examine and test 
the question whether grinding or beating in a mortar pro- 
duced the best coffee ; and having taken equal Aveights of 
each and treated them precisely alike, he found that the 



VALUABLE SECBETS. 173 

coffee that Imd been beaten in a mortar was far better than 
that which had been gronnd. Any one may repeat the 
experiment for his or her own satisfaction. 

How to Make Tea. 

Tliere are many Avays of making Tea, but Professor 
Blot says, after many experiments and much information, 
lie has found the following to be the best : 

Warm the teapot, either by pouring boiling water in 
and emptying it, or by placing it on a corner of the range. 
Then put good tea into it (the quantity to be according to 
the strength and the quantity you want), and pour boiling 
water on the leaves, just enough to wet them ; leave thus 
about one minute, then pour on all the water you want. 

Let it steep no longer than six minutes and not less 
than four minutes before drawing it. If allowed to steep 
longer than six minutes, all the astringency of the tea is 
extracted and it acts, with bad effect, on the nervous sys- 
tem, besides losing most of the aroma. 

Chemists and physiologists generally recommend black 
tea for not affecting the nervous system so much as 
green tea. 

Other authorities on cookery recommend boiling black tea 
for about fifteen minutes, and state that it greatly im- 
proves the flavor. 

Soyer has a somewhat different method of making tea. 
He says : Pour the dry tea into the pot a quarter of an 
hour before you are ready to use it, warm both tea and pot 
for that length of time, then fill with boiling water and 
leave it draw from three to five minutes, when it is quite 
ready. 



174 H03IE COMFORTS. 

Points about Chocolate. 

Chocolate deserves a higher place in the regard of the 
American people than it has obtained, and is especially- 
suitable for literary men, lawyers and persons with feeble 
stomachs. A French authority says, to make it fit for 
immediate use, about an ounce and a half should be taken 
for each cuj), which should be slowly dissolved in water 
M'hile it is heated, and stirred from time to time with a 
spatula of wood. It should be boiled a quarter of an hour 
in order to give it consistency, and served up hot. 

" Monsieur," said Madame d'Austel, " when you wish 
good chocolate, make it the evening before in a tin-pot. 
The rest of the night gives it a velvet-like flavor that 
makes it far better. God will not be offended at this little 
refinement, for in himself is all excellence." 

How to Prepare Salads, etc. 

INIrs. Warren's method of washing greens, etc., will 
astonish other cooks beside her own. She says : 

" First, I had a pan of warm water rather more than tepid, 
and a second of cold water. After having carefully picked 
the refuse leaves from some cabbages which the rain and 
hot sun intervening had covered with insects, I first took 
the worst part of the leaves and put two or three in the 
warm water to show the girl how readily the insects fell 
off, leaving the leaf clean. Her eyes dilated as if I had 
been a conjurer. So fresh hot water was had for the cab- 
bages, each small head U'as washed singly, and then put into 
cold water ; and in the warm water each worm and snail 
and grub found instantly a watery grave. I would here 
remark that if greens or lettuces are washed in a mass, 
and not each singly, the process is of little avail, yet better 



VALUABLE SECEETS. 175 

than washing them in cold water. No vegetables lose their 
orispness, or if for a moment they do, it is instantly re- 
stored by the necessary act of plnnging them into cold 
water. Who has not had their teeth set on edo-e bv eatino; 
gritty spinach, sea-kale, celery, or leeks, which need not 
have happened if the cook had only known that to wash 
these things in two tvaters that are warm and then imme- 
diately to lay them in cold for an hour, much trouble and 
time would have been saved. This is one bit of comfort, 
a knowledge of which cannot be too widely known." 

Remember always to boil greens with a small piece of 
baking soda, in plenty of boiling water and salt. 

Garnishes. 

]\Iuch of the palatableness of food depends on the style 
in which it is served up. Parsley is the general garnish 
for all kinds of cold meat, poultry, fish, etc.; and slices of 
lemon for boiled fowl, turkey, fish and roast veal. 

Carrots in slices should accompany boiled beef, hot or cold. 

Fried sausages or forcemeat balls are placed around 
roasted turkey, capon or fowl. 

Currant jelly is the garnish for game, and mint, either 
with or without parsley, for roast lamb, either hot or cold. 

Always have lobster sauce with salmon, 

And put mint sauce your roasted lamb on; 

In venison gravy, currant jelly, 

Mix with old port — see Francatelli ; 

In dressing salad, mind this law, 

With two hard yelks, use one tliat's raw ; 

Roast veal, with rich stock gravy serve, 

And pickled mushrooms, too, observe ; 

Roast pork, sans apple sauce, past doubt 

Is "Hamlet," with the Prince left out; 

Boiled turkey, gourmands know, of course 

Is exquisite with celery sauce ; 

The cook deserves a hearty cuffing 

Who serves roast fowls with tasteless stuffing. 



176 HOME C02IF0RTS. 

Drawn or Melted Eutter, 

The foundation of many of the principal sauces is melted 
butter; and an English lawyer, it is said, in hiring a cook, 
asked but one question — how she made melted butter ; and 
if her answer was satisfactory, she was engaged ; if not, 
she was rejected. Where expense is not considered, tliis is 
made of two-thirds butter and one-third of cream, warmed 
gradually with a box spoon ; but for families in ordinary 
circumstances, Soyer gives the following recipe: 

Take two ounces of butter, and two ounces of flour, half 
a teaspoonful of salt, a quarter that of pepper, mixed 
together with a spoon, put into a quart pan, with a })int of 
cold water; place it on the fire and stir continually until 
it begins to simmer, then add one more ounce of butter 
and stir till melted. This melted butter is fit to serve at 
the best tables, by adding three ounces of butter. Take 
as a guide, that the back of the spoon, on being removed, 
should always be covered with the butter or sauce. 

Many good housekeepers arc sorely puzzled at times to 
know what to cook for a variety ; they are tired of the 
same things everlastingly boiled, stew'ed and fried, and it 
would be a good plan to have on the reverse side of the 
Illuminated Kitchen JNIonitor before recommended, a com- 
prehensive list of food articles, or Bill of Fare that would 
suggest something that would relieve their perplexity. It 
is often difficult to know what to cook for children and 
for delicate and sick persons ; and a list like the following 
would often be useful for reference : 

Food for the Sick. 

Beef tea, oatmeal or Indian gruel, chicken, mutton, veal or 
calves' feet broth, arrowroot custard, milk toast, boiled rice, 



VALUABLE SECBETS. 177 

sago or tapioca milk, baked apples, panada, breast of part- 
ridge or pigeon, minced fine and stewed. Beef, rump- 
steak, broiled ten minutes or less. 

Food for Young Children, 
Milk, scalded or boiled, mixed with farina or barley ; 
rusks or stale bread warmed, pressed and mixed with 
sugar; crushed white wheat; Graham bread or crackers; 
rare beef, and well-boiled mutton ; tender roast or boiled 
chicken, minced fine; mealy old or dry sweet potatoes; 
young onions boiled in two waters; simple custard, and 
rice or farina pudding; inner part of a well-roasted apple; 
soft-boiled eggs. No veal or pork, or fried meats generally. 

Food for Sedentary and Delicate Persons. 

Eggs, fried or poached, or soft boiled, or in omelet. 
Beef, veal, chicken, guinea fowl ; boiled or hashed calf's 
head ; veal cutlets broiled in papers or with cauliflower, or 
broccoli ; roast fowl, with water-cresses ; broiled partridge ; 
asparagus, with drawn butter; green peas, macaroni, 
julienne or hare soups; boiled rice, oysters, roast apples, 
boiled fish, except eels, skate or cuttle fish. No pork, 
sucking pig, ducks, geese, smoked or salted meats, or fat 
and greasy things generally. 

Standard Breakfast Dishes. 

Dry or milk toast, toasted muffins, rolls, hot cakes, buns, 
and rusks, corn bread, fried mush, fried hominy, waffles 
and catfish, mackerel salt or fresh, haddock, small white- 
fish, boiled, fried or poached eggs, ham and eggs, omelet, 
beefsteak, pork and mutton chops, sausages, fi-izzled beef, 
hashed kidneys on toast, bacon, sausages, potatoes and 
cream, fried potatoes, fried or broiled chicken. 



178 HOME COMFORTS. 

Dishes for Sunday Dinners, to Save Cooking. 

Pea, spring, white or tapioca soup ; cold roast beef with 
horseradish, or roast mutton with salad, or broiled fowls 
with mushroom sauce ; hashed duck and green peas ; giblet 
soup and calf s-head pie ; macaroni and cheese ; baked 
cod or boiled pike stuffed ; fruit fritters, apple tart, boiled 
custard ; pudding, cold ; apple pie, cheese cakes, Welsh 
rare-bits ; creams, syllabubs, tipsy cake, trifles. Many of 
these dishes can be entirely or partly prepared on the pre- 
ceding day. 

There is such a lamentable lack of brains among all 
classes in the world, that if there be any food which will 
make brains, it is very important that all of us should 
know of it and partake of it. Dr. Lambort asserts that 
all of the following articles contain bxain-making elements, 
and has outlined a bill of fare to show that a dinner may 
be prepared from them alone, which epicures would uot 
disdain. 

Relish (Russian Fashion) : 

Toasted Crackers and Toasted Cheese. 

Second Course : 

Oysters on Half-shell and Cold Cabbage. 

Third Course : 

Sardines. 

Fourtli Course: 

Cod-fish and Cream. 

Fiftli Course: 

Oyster-Salad. 

Sixth Course : 

Stewed Tripe and Green Peas. 

Seventh Course : 

Calves' Brains on Toast. 

Bread : 

Graham, French Rolls, Oat, Graham Meal Crackers, and Milk Biscuit. 

Desf;ert : 
Oat Groats and Cream. 
Pancakes : 
Oat, Buckwheat, and Graham Meal. 
Boiled Custard. 
Fruit : Drinks. 

Apples and Oranges. Coffee, Buttermilk. 



CHAPTER X. 

DAINTY DISHES FOR DAINTY PALATES. 

"The art of cookery consists in exciting the taste. To excite a stomach 
of papier-maclie, and enliven vital powers almost ready to depart, a cook 
needs more talents than he who has solved the infinitesimal calculus." — 
Savarin. 

1. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 

|1|^E are now approacliing that mysterious realm known 
as " high-class cookery," but we do not propose to 
enter very far within its precincts. It is surmised 
by some, that many of the dishes prepared by the 
French professors of the culinary art are not what they 
seem, and that often rich and highly-flavored sauces dis- 
guise what in itself is not very savory or palatable. But 
before we approach the great oracles of this branch of 
cookery, to inquire what foundation of truth this suspicion 
rests upon, or to ask those who compound the dishes that 
grace banquets and astonish epicures to disclose some of 
the secrets of their art, we propose to dwell for a while in 
still more pleasant company, and inquire how the most 
skilful of American and English wives and mothers pre- 
pare those familiar yet dainty dishes that are among the 
most valued of Home Comforts. 

First of all, as the English are celebrated for their roast 
beef, we have requested Mr. BoYCE, of London, to tell our 
readers 

179 



ISO HOME COMFORTS. 

How to Eoast Beef, English Style. 

Roasting — that is, cooking by the direct heat of the fire 
(in front of, and not over the fire, which constitutes broil- 
ing) — is characteristic of English cooking, as much as 
stewing or sauteing is of French cookery, or frying and 
baking of American, and though the interchange of ideas 
is breaking up the okl distinctions, we can still enjoy the 
idea that the Englishman looks down upon French dishes 
as kickshaws and messes, while the French cook still 
boasts, that 

From an old shoe, 
He could make a ragoCf, 

That should beat the roast beef of Old England. 
. The glorious old English roast beef. 

The first point of importance is to select beef of the very 
best quality, and, whether it be the fillet, ribs, or sirloin, 
see that the fat and lean are mingled, so that the clean cut 
seems marbled, that it is free from much sinew, which 
would indicate age, and that the outside fat show of a rich 
color, which denotes good feeding and proper maturity. 

Beef for roasting should be kept some days before being 
used, or as long as it is possible to keep it without salting, 
for no salt should touch beef until it is cooked ; and then 
the first thing to notice is, that the fire must burn perfectly 
clear and bright. In England, bituminous coal is used, 
and ranges are made capable of being M'idened or con- 
tracted, with the bars running liorizontally, and the fire 
usually extends beyond the meat, so that the ends of the 
joint may be properly cooked. A Dutch oven is most 
generally used, the spit passing rfirough, and receiving its 
motion from machinery, as previously described in the 



DAINTY DISHES. 181 

American tin kitchen, a flap at the back giving access for 
basting. 

Having a good fire, burning briglit and close uj) to the 
bars of the grate, proceed to spit the sirloin, exercising 
caution to spit it evenly, so that it balances, or the spit will 
turn more quickly at one time than another, and the meat 
not be cooked evenly. A cradle si)it is sometimes used to 
obviate this. Pin some thin writing paper over the outside 
fat, and pour some water in the dripping-pan to commence 
basting with. Push the meat up close to the fire for a few 
minutes, until a slight crust forms, which will tend to keep 
the rich juices from escaping; then draw about ten or 
twelve inches away until nearly done, when the paper is 
removed, and the joint brought near the fire to brown it. 

The length of time required for cooking thoroughly 
averages a quarter of an hour to each pound in weiglit : a 
sirloin weigliing fifteen pounds requiring three hours and 
a half; but meat from an old animal takes longer to cook, 
and in winter longer time must be allowed, and very fat 
meat requires time to cook it thoroughly. 

Rub a little butter or fresh dripping over the meat 
before spitting, in order to supply dripping to baste with — 
water alone not being sufficient — and baste very often, as 
on this much of the success of roasting depends. When 
the meat is nearly done, dredge over it some flour that has 
been browned by baking, and a little salt, and as soon as a 
rich brown is obtained, and steam rises from the joint, it is 
sufficiently cooked. 

Perfection in roasting is very difficult, and only by 

observation and experience can success be attained to, as 

many things, such as age, size (especially the thickness) of 

the joint, the kitchen conveniences, the time of serving, etc., 

have to be considered, and only when everything favors 
15 



182 H03IE COMFORTS. 

can the cook expect the jiraise that "it was clone to a 
turn." 

Roast beef should be sent to the table as soon as it is 
done ; the dish sliould be very hot, and only a small 
quantity of rich and rather thick gravy should be made, for 
as soon as the joint is cut, the juices Avill add sufficient to 
the gravy to supply all the diners. A dish with a well for 
the gravy should always be used. The under side of the 
sirloin is sometimes called the lumbar, and is the most 
delicious part; it is usually served to the ladies, a good 
carver reserving some for the lady of the house. 

Eoast Canvas-back Ducks, 

Nearly all wild ducks are liable to have a fishy flavor, 
and, when handled by inexperienced cooks, are sometimes 
uneatable from this cause. Before roasting them, guard 
against this by parhoiUng them, u-ifJi a small carrot, jieded, 
put within each. This will absorb the unpleasant taste. 
An onion will have the same effect ; but unless you mean 
to use onion in the stuffing, the carrot is preferable. 

After parboiling as directed, throw away the carrot or 
onion, lay in fresh water half an hour, stuff with bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, sage, and onion, and 
roast until brown and tender, basting half the time 
with butter and water, then witli the dripjjings. Add to 
the gravy, when you have taken up the ducks, a table- 
spoonful of currant jelly and a pinch of Cayenne pepper. 
Thicken with browned flour, and serve in a tureen. 

Game, as a general rule, is best if kept for about three 
days; but when time cannot be afforded, some persons 
think that, by burying it in the ground for a few hours, it 
becomes more tender. Most cooks roll game in strips of 



DAINTY DISHES. 183 

bacon before roasting it, but buttered paper is preferable, 
as bacon spoils the flavor of delicate birds like woodcock. 
A hare or rabbit, when roasting, should be basted with 
cream and dredged with flour. 

Barbecued Rabbit or Squirrel. Harland. 

Clean and wash the rabbit, which must be plump and 
young, and having opened it all the way on the under 
side, lay it flat, with a small plate or saucer to keep it 
down, in salted water for half an hour. Wipe dry and 
broil whole, with the exception of the head, when you have 
gashed across the backbone in eight or ten places, that the 
heat may penetrate this, the thickest part. Your fire 
should be hot and clear, the rabbit turned often. When 
browned and tender, lay upon a very hot dish, pepper and 
salt and butter profusely, turning the rabbit over and over 
to soak up the melted butter. Cover and set in the oven 
for five minutes, and heat in a tin cup two tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, seasoned with one of made mustard. Anoint 
the hot rabbit well with this, cover, and send to table 
garnished with crisped parsley. 

The odor of this barbecue is most appetizing, and the 
taste not a whit inferior. Squirrels may be barbecued in 
the same manner. 

Broiled Pigeons or Squabs. 

Young pigeons, or "squab.?," are rightly esteemed a 
great delicacy. They should be cleaned, washed, and dried 
carefully with a clean cloth ; then split down the back, and 
broiled like chickens. Season Avitli pepper and salt, and 
butter liberally in dishing them. They are in great 
request in a convalescent room, being peculiarly savory 
and nourishing. 



184 H02IE COMFOBTS. 

Broiled Beefsteak, Wakefield Style. 

Cut a steak an inch thick ; score it on each side crops- 
wise. Put into a tart-dish two tcaspoonfuls of salt, one of 
pejiper, one of sugar, a teaspoonful of chopped tarragon, a 
tah!es[)oonful of some good relish or sauce, two tablespoon- 
luis of vinegar; put the steak in it for six hours ; turn it 
now and then. This seasoning is called marinade. Pre- 
vious to broiling, dredge it slightly with flt)ur while doing, 
and serve with butter in very small pieces under the steak. 
Some raw potatoes, cut into very thin slices and nicely 
fried, and served as a garnish, renders it a dish fit for the 
most fastidious epicure. 

Eoasted Guinea Fowls 

arc a dainty dish, very little known to American farmers, 
who keep them chiefly for their plumage and their eggs, 
which are far richer than those of chickens. For roasting, 
they should not be more than twelv'e months old. They 
are trussed like common fowls, larded, and served plain 
roasted, rather well done. Season the gravy with a 
cho]>pcd shallot, parsley, or summer savory, not omitting 
the minced giblets, and thickened with browned flour. 
Currant, or some other tart jelly, is a suitable accompani- 
ment for this fowl. 

Veal Cutlets, with Tomatoes or Oysters. 

Wash the cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, dip 
in cracker dust and fry in equal portions of lard and butter 
until they are of a nice brown on both sides, and when done, 
take them up on a dish. 

Also, stew about a quarter of a peck of tomatoes, drain, 
mash, and season with red pepper and salt. Pour the 
tomatoes into the pan with the gravy, after the cutlets 



DAINTY DISHES. 185 

have been disheJ, and stir well together. Pour this over 
tlie cutlets, and send to table hot. This dish is very much 
liked by many persons. 

In the place of tomatoes, some take oysters, pan them, 
season with salt and Cayenne pepper, and pour them over 
the cutlets, which are served hot, in a covered dish. 

How to Cook Sweetbreads. Widdifield. 

Take one or more sweetbreads, wash, and put them into 
a stew-pan, and let them boil five or ten rainvites ; then put 
them in cold water, and when cool, skin, but not break, 
them ; then season with salt and pepper, dredge over a 
little flour, and fry slowly in butter a light brown on both 
sides. For persons slightly indisposed, these may be 
served with potatoes, mashed with a little cream, and 
seasoned with salt to taste. 

The French cooks prepare sweetbreads as above ; then 
place them on a dish, remove all the brown particles from 
the pan, retaining the butter, and pour over them a gravy 
made by dredging in a gill of boiling water a dessert- 
spoonful of browned flour, stirring all the time, seasoning 
to taste, and adding gradually two tablespoonfuls of 
Madeira wine. AVhile boiling hot, this is poured over the 
sweetbreads, which are sent to the table in a well-heated 
covered dish. 

Baked Salmon Trout. Harland. 

Marion Harland becomes rapturously enthusiastic when 
she thinks of the salmon trout she ate in the Adirondacks, 
bah'd icilh cream. Her recipe for cooking the fish in this 
way, Avhcn divested of its "bathos," is as follows: 

Handle the beauty carefully and lay in a baking-pan, 
Mith just enough water to keep him from scorching. Bake 



186 HOME COMFORTS. 

slowl}', basting often with butter and water. By the time 
it is done, have ready in a saucepan a cup of cream — 
diluted with a few spoonfuls of hot water, lest it should 
clot in heating — in which has been stirred cautiously two 
tablespoonfuls of melted butter and a little chopped 
parsley. Heat this in a vessel set within another of 
boiling water, add the gravy from the dripping-pan, boil 
up once to thicken ; and when the trout is laid in state in 
a hot dish, pour the sauce around him. Salt him lightly, 
should he need it, but let no sharply-spiced sauces come 
near him. Eat, and be happy. 

Brook trout form a rarely delightful breakfast or supper 
dish. They should be fried quickly in hot fat or fine olive 
oil, without seasoning, and taken out instantly they are 
a delicate brown, and placed for a few seconds upon a 
hot folded napkin, to absorb Avhatever grease may cling to 
their speckled sides. Tliis simple dish, says Savarin, duly 
sprinkled witli slices of lemons, is worthy to be olFcred to 
a cardinal. 

Eoasted or Eroiled Rail or Eeed Birds 

are a dainty dish. Skilled cooks roll an oyster in melted 
butter, then in bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and 
salt, and put this into each bird before roasting. Then 
baste with butter and water three times, put layers of toast 
underneath, and, while roasting, baste freely with melted 
butter. About twelve minutes will be required to cook 
these birds in this way, and they will be found a dainty 
dish indeed. 

Roast Pig and Apple Sauce. 

Charles Lamb claims that, of all the deH<'acies in the 
eatable world, the most delicate is a young tender suckling 



DAINTY DISHES, 187 

of a pig roasted. It mast be roasted, not seethed or boiled. 
He says : " There is no flavor comparable, I will contend, 
to tliat of the crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted, 
crackling, as it is well called ; the very teeth are invited to 
their -share of the pleasure of this banquet in overcoming 
the coy, brittle resistance, with the adhesive oleaginous — 
oh, call it not fat — but an indefinable sweetness growing up 
to it, the tender blossoming of fat — fat cropped in the bud 
— fat and lean so blended, and running into each other, 
that both together make but one ambrosial result or 
common substance." 

For very young roast pig, the best sauce is probably a 
few bread crumbs, done up with the liver and brains, and 
a dash of mild sage. For roast pork, browned fiour is said 
to be the best for gravies. Apple sauce is the proper 
accompaniment. 

To Make a Haunch of Mutton Eat like Venison. 

Mix two ounces of bay salt with half a pound of brown 
sugar; rub it well into the mutton, which should be placed 
in a deep dish for four days, and basted three or four times 
a day with the liquor that drains from it; then wipe it 
quite dry, and rub in a quarter of a pound more sugar, 
mixed with a little common salt, and hang it up, haunch 
downwards; wipe it daily till it is used. In winter, it 
should be kept three weeks and roasted in paste, like 
venison. Serve with currant jelly. 

Oysters Broiled on the Shell. Lyman. 

Perhaps no dish is able to give more epicurean delight 
than this, if well managed. It is just the thing for a night 
supper, or for an elegant breakfast. 

Select as many dozen as you have guests. They should 



188 H03IE COMFORTS. 

be large, and the sliells of good shape. Clean them with a 
stiff brush, and open, saving the juice. Throw the oysters 
into boiling water, and let them remain a minute or two, 
according to size. Take out, and lay at once on one half 
of the shell, and place .on a gridiron over a brisk fire. As 
soon as the oyster begins to broil in the shell, season with 
butter, pepper, and a drop of lemon juice. Serve hot on 
the shell. 

French Stewed Oysters. Leslie. 

Wash fifty fine large oysters in their own liquor ; then 
Strain it into a stevvpan, putting the oysters in a pan of 
cold water. Season the liquor with a large glass or half a 
pint of white wine (sherry or Madeira), the juice of two 
lemons, six or seven blades of mace, ana a small grated 
nutmeg. Boil the seasoned liquor, and skim and stir it 
well. When it comes to a boil, put in the oysters. Give 
them one good stir, and then immediately take them from 
the fire, transfer them to a deep dish, and send them to 
table. They are not to boil. 

JNIany persons consider this the finest way of cooking 
oysters for company. 

Chicken Dressed as Terrapin. 

Boil a fine, large, tender chicken ; when done, and ■while 
yet warm, cut it from the bones into small pieces, as for 
chicken salad ; put it into a stewpan, with one gill of boil- 
ing water ; then stir together, until perfectly smooth, one- 
quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoonful of flour, and 
the yelk of one egg, which add to the chicken, half at a 
time, stirring all well together ; then season with salt and 
pepper. After letting it simmer about ten minutes, add 
half a gill of Madeira wine, and send to table hot. 

This is liked by many who are not fond of terrapins. 



DAINTY DISHES. 189 

French Pot-au-Feu. Soyer. 

In France, no dinner is served without soup, and no 
good soup is supposed to be made without the pot-au-feu, 
it being the national dish of the middle and poorer classes 
of that country. The following is Soyer's receipt for 
making it: 

Put into an earthen pipkin six pounds of beef, four 
quarts of water; set near the fire; skim. When nearly 
boiling, add a spoonful and a half of salt, half a pound 
of liver, two carrots, four turnips, eight young or two old 
locks, one head of celery, two onions, and one roasted, with 
a clove in each, and a piece of parsnip ; skim again, and let 
simmer four or five hours, adding a little cold water now 
and then ; take off a part of the fat, put slices of bread into 
the tureen, lay half the vegetables over, and half the broth, 
and serve the meat separate, with the vegetables around. 

Eggs and Cheese 

are a favorite dish in Italy, and also in Switzerland, where 
the recipe originated. Beat well six eggs, and put them in 
a stewpan, with two ounces of well-grated Gruyere cheese 
and about one ounce of butter ; set on a brisk fire, and 
leave till it becomes rather thick, stirring all the time with 
a wooden spoon ; take from the fire, add pepper, and stir a 
little; turn over on a warm dish, and serve. 

French Omelets, 

mixed with sliced apples fried, or with asparagus boiled 
and chopped fine, or chopped parsley, were so much of a 
favorite with General Washington, that he often had them 
served on his table when he gave presidential dinners. 



190 HOME COMFOBTS. 

The following is Prof. Blot's recipe for making a plain 
omelet : 

Beat well, say eight eggs, wnth salt and pepper, by 
means of a fork ; then pnt about two ounces of butter in a 
frying-pan ; set on a brisk fire and toss gently, to melt the 
butter as evenly and as quickly as possible, else some of it 
will get black before the whole is melted. As soon as 
melted, turn the beaten eggs in, and stir continually with 
a fork or knife, so as to cook the whole as nearly as possi- 
ble at the same time. If some ])art of the omelet sticks to 
the pan, add a little butter, and raise that part with a 
knife, so as to allow ihQ butter to run under it and prevent 
it from sticking again. It must be done quickly, and 
without taking the pan from the fire. When cooked 
according to taste, either soft or hard — that is, when only 
about two-thirds of the e'j:Q:ii are solidified, or nearly the 
whole — turn or fold one-half of the omelet over the other, 
and serve warm. 

When it is ready to be folded, you may pour on the 
middle of it five or six tablespoonfuls of cooked kidney, 
and you have omelet with kidney ; or spread the surface 
with stewed tomatoes, or two or three tablespoonfuls of 
any kind of jam or sweetmeats, then fold and serve. By 
using different kinds of sweetmeats, a great variety of 
omelets can be made. 

The adding of milk to the eggs makes an omelet soft. 

To make a siceet omelet, beat four eggs in a basin, add a 
tablespoonful of milk, a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of 
salt, and beat them well up ; put some nice butter into a 
pan, put in the eggs, and fry as above described. Serve 
with sugar sifted over. 

A very good omelet may be made of two yelks of eggs 
and one white, a tablespoonful of cream, a little minced 



DAIN^TY DISHES. 191 

parsley and sliallot, and a very little nutmeg. Whisk all 
well together, and fry in as little butter as possible. 

A Swiss Eare-bit. M. Tuollet. 

Take as many eggs as you wish, according to the number 
of your guests, and weigh them. Then take a piece of 
cheese weighing a third of the weight of the eggs, and a 
slice of butter weighing a sixth. Beat the eggs well up in 
a saucepan, grate the cheese, or chop very small, and place 
the saucepan, with the eggs, cheese and butter in it, over a 
good fire, stir with a flat spoon until the mixture becomes 
sufficiently thick and soft, add a little salt and a large 
proportion of pepper — this being one of the principal points 
of the rare-bit — and serve it up in a warm dish. 

A Welsh Eare-bit. Exglish Recipe. 

A orenuine Welsh rare-bit is made of Welsh cheese — a 
certain kind only, and prepared for that purpose — melted 
to a certain degree, and then spread on toast of Welsh 
bread. Tiie nearest approach to tlie genuine that can be 
had here is the following : 

Grate some Gloucester or Gruyere cheese, and pepper it 
with Cayenne pepper. Fry some slices of bread with a 
little butter, but on one side only, until perfectly yellow; 
then spread a thick coat of grated cheese on the fried side 
of the bread, place the slices in a baking-pan, put them in 
a pretty warm oven, take off when the cheese begins to 
melt, and serve warm. 

How to Cook Mushrooms. Soyer. 

Mushrooms are regarded by some as the choicest of 

delicacies, while others denounce them as " a contemptible, 

rank-smelling fungus." Sover calls them the pearl of the 



192 HOME COMFOETS. 

fields, and says, if Apicius had known of them, he woukl not 
have gone to Greece for crawfish, or committed suicide. 
His recipe for cooking them is as follows : 

Toast slices of bread, cut half an incli thick, and large 
enough to cover the bottom of a plate, and spread over 
these some rich cream, or milk boiled until it is reduced to 
the consistency of cream. Remove all the earthy part 
from the mushrooms, and lay them gently on the toast, 
liead downwards, slightly sprinkle them Avith salt and pep- 
per, and place in each a little of the clotted cream, cover 
with a basin, and place in the oven for half an hour. 
Another recipe for sfeu-'mg mushrooms is : 
Rub them white, stew in water ten minutes, strain par- 
tially, and cover with as much warm milk as you have 
poured off water ; stew five minutes in this ; salt, pejjper, 
and add some veal or chicken gravy, or drawn butter. 
Thicken with a little flour, wet in cold milk, and a 
beaten egg. 

A Good Sauce for Every Kind of Fish, 
baked, boiled, or roasted. Prof. Blot's recipe : 

Boil hard two eggs, take the yelks and pound them 
well, and place them in a bowl. Have boiling water on 
the fire, and put in it four or five sprigs each of cives, 
burnet, chervil, tarragon, and parsley ; boil five minutes, 
take off, drain, and pound theui well ; then strain them on 
the eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of cider vinegar, t^\•o of 
French mustard, salt, pepper, and four tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil, which you pour in, little by little, at the same 
time mixing the whole well with a boxwood sjioon, and it 
is ready for use. 



DAINTY DISHES. 193 

A Olam-Ohowder. Harlem Eiver Boatmen. 

Clam-chowder is made in a hundred different ways, but 
it is generally admitted that the boatmen on the Harlem 
river make the best : 

Put in a pot some small slices of fat salt pork, enough 
to line the bottom of it ; on that a layer of potatoes, cut 
in small pieces ; on the potatoes a layer of chopped 
onions; on the onions a layer of tomatoes in slices, or 
canned tomatoes; on these a layer of clams, whole or 
chopped (they are generally chopped), then a layer of 
crackers. Season with salt and pepper, and other spices 
if desired. Then repeat this process, layer after layer, in 
above order, seasoning each, until the pot is nearly full. 
When the whole is in, cover with water, set on a slow fire, 
and when nearly done, stir gently, finish cooking, and serve. 

When done, if found too thin, boil a little longer; if 
found too thick, add a little water, give one boil, and serve. 

Fish-chowder is made exactly as clam-chowder, using 
fish instead of clams. 

Clam-Bake. Riley. 

The experienced Harlem river clam baker, Tom Riley, 
is the authority for the following recipe : 

Lay the clams on a i-ock, edge downward, and forming a 
circle ; cover them with fine brush ; cover the brush with 
dry sage ; cover the sage with larger brush ; set the whole 
on fire, and when a little more than half burnt (brush and 
sage), look at the clams by pulling some out, and if done 
enough brush the fire, cinders, etc., off; mix some tomato 
or cauliflower sauce or catsup with the clams, minus their 
shells ; add butter and spices to taste, and serve. 
16 



194 HOIIE C03IF0RTS. 

Done in sand, the clams, on opening, naturally allow 
the sand to get in, and it is anything but pleasant for the 
teeth while eating them. 

A Wholesome Summer Salad. Soyer. 

Cut up a pound of cold beef into thin slices, and half a 
pound of white fresh lettuce; put in a salad bowl, season 
with a teaspoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, two 
spoonfuls of vinegar, and ibur of good salad oil ; stir all 
together lightly with a fork and spoon, and when well 
mixed, it is ready to serve. 

Chaptal, a French chemist, says the dressing of a salad 
should be saturated with oil, and seasoned with pepper and 
salt, before the vinegar is added. It results from this 
process, that there can never be too much vinegar; for 
from the specific gravity of the vinegar compared with the 
oil, what is more than useful will fall to the bottom of the 
bowl. Tlie salt should not be dissolved in the vinegar, 
but in the oil, l)y which means it is more equally distributed 
throughout the salad. A Spanish proverb says. To make 
a perfect salad, tliere should be a miser for oil, a spend- 
thrift for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir 
the ingredients u}) and m'x then well together. 

Strawberries, with Orange Juice. Parkinson. 
Place a layer of strawberries into a deep dish ; cover the 
same with a liberal supply of very finely pulverized sugar; 
add another layer of berries ; then the same quantity of 
sugar. Now another layer of fruit and sugar, alternately, 
until you have the desired quantity. Express over the 
whole the juice of half a dozen sweet oranges. Let the 



DAINTY DISHES. 195 

whole stand for half an hour. Now serve, and let the 
partaker thank the gods ! 

To those who have never tried this method, it will afford 
a delightful surprise to note how much more fully it brings 
out the fine flavor of the strawberry ; and much of which 
effect is due to the delicate flavor of the orange. 

I will now give another expedient for heightening the 
flavor of strawberries and cream. Prepare in every respect 
as above described, as to alternate layers of berries and 
sugar, and substitute for the orange juice half a pint of 
pure claret wine. In default of claret of known purity, 
use the same quantity of our best native or home-made 
wines. Our home-made currant wine is admirable for 
bringing out in fuller force the delicious native flavor of 
the strawberry. 

An Excellent Custard. Mrs. Freedley. 

Take a pint of milk, four eggs, and a cup of sugar. 
Put the milk on to boil, and beat together the yelks of the 
eggs and the sugar until very light. When the milk has 
boiled, pour it by degrees over the eggs and sugar, stirring 
constantly and return to the fire. Watch carefully, so as to 
remove when it has just begun to boil, and set oif to cool. 
Flavor to suit the taste. Beat up the whites of the eggs 
into a light froth, and pour it over the custard. 

Very Pine Cold Cup Custard. Widdifield. 

One quart of new milk, one pint of cream, a quarter of a 
pound of fine white sugar, three large tablespoonfuls of 
wine in which rennet has been soaked. 

Mix the milk, cream and sugar together, stir the wine 
into it, pour the mixture into custard cups, and set them 



196 HOME COMFOBTS. 

a\vay until the milk becomes a curd. Grate nutmeg on 
the top, and eat them with cream that has been kej t on ice. 

The Queen of Puddings. Harland. 

One and a half cups of white sugar, two cups fine dry 
bread-crumbs, five eggs, one tablespoon ful of butter, va- 
nilla, rose-water or lemon flavoring, one quart fresh rich 
milk, and one half cup jelly or jam. 

Rub the butter into a cup of sugar, beat the yelks very 
light, and stir these together to a cream. The bread- 
crumbs, soaked in milk, come next, then the flavoring. 
Bake in a buttered pudding dish — a large one and but two- 
thirds full — until the custard is "set." Draw to the mouth 
of the oven, spread over with jam or other nice fruit con- 
serve. Cover this with a meringue made of the whip]ied 
whites and half a cup of sugar. Shut the oven, and bake 
until the meringue begins to color. Eat cold, with cream. 
You may, in strawberry season, substitute the fresh fruit 
for preserves. It is then truly delightful. 

An Elegant Bread Pudding. 

Take light white bread, and cut it in tliin slices. Put 
into a pudding mould a layer of any sort of preserve, then 
a slice of bread, and repeat until the mould is almost full. 
Pour over all a pint of warm milk in which four beaten 
eggs have been mixed, cover the mould with a piece of 
linen, place it in a saucepan with a little boiling water, let 
it boil twenty minutes, and serve with pudding sauce. 

A Pleasant Fruit Dessert. Peof. Blot. 

Beat well the white of an e^g with a little water, dip the 
fruit — whether currants, blackberries, or other fruit — in, 



DAI^'TY DISHES. 197 

and roll it immediately in some fine crushed sugar, place it 
on a dish, and leave it thus five or six hours, and serve. 

A more sightly and exquisite dessert, he says, than a 
plate of currants dressed thus, cannot be had. 

An Excellent Dish of Apples. Frost! 

Take two pounds of apples, pare and core them, slice 
them into a pan, add one pound of loaf sugar, the juice of 
three lemons and the grated rind of one. Let these boil 
about two hours, turn it into a mould, and serve with 
custard or cream. 

An Improved Apple Sauce. 

Take sweet cider, as soon as it comes from the press, boil 
it down nearly one-half, then pare and quarter as many of 
the best sour apples as you wish to " do up," cover them 
with the cider when boiling hot, and cook until well done, 
but not so as to lose their shape. Most of the cider will 
be absorbed by the apples ; what remains can be bottled for 
future use. When done, put into jars, and cover or ce- 
ment. This makes not only a most delicious sauce, but it 
is also very healthful, as all the nourishment of the 
apples from which the cider is made is retained, Mhile Ave 
lose the sharp, biting taste of the old aj)ple butter made 
from boiled cider. 

A Nice Breakfast Dish. 

Grate some cold tongue or beef, put it into a stewpan 
with a little pepper and salt, and four tablespoonfuls of 
cream or milk ; when quite hot, put in four well-beaten 
eggs, stir all the time till the mixture is quite thick ; have 



198 HOME COMFORTS. 

ready some nicely toasted bread, well buttered, and spread 
the tongue or beef over it ; send to the table hot. 

A Farmer's Dainty Dish. 

Peel and slice thin potatoes and onions (five potatoes to 
one small onion), take half a pound of sweet salt pork in 
thin slices to a pound of beef, mutton or veal, cut the 
meat in small pieces, take some nice bread dough and 
shorten a little, and line the bottom of the stewpan with 
slices of pork, then a layer of meat, potatoes and onions, 
dust over a little pepper, and cover with a layer of crust ; 
repeat this until the stewpot is full — the size of the pot 
will depend on the number in the family ; pour in suffi- 
cient water to cover, finish with crust. Let it simmer till 
meat, vegetables, etc., are done, but do not let it boil hard. 
Serve hot. This, we are assured by one who knows, is a 
dish fit to set before a king, or his peer — a farmer. 

Green Corn Fritters or Cakes. Harland. 

Grate green corn from the cob, and allow an egg and a 
half for every cupful, with a tablespoonful of milk or 
cream ; beat the eggs well, add the corn by degrees, beating 
very hard, salt to taste, put a tablespoonful of melted 
butter to every pint of corn, stir in the milk, and thicken 
with just enough flour to hold them together — say a table- 
spoonful for every two eggs. You may fry in hot lard, as 
you would fritters, or cook upon a griddle, like batter 
cakes. Eaten at dinner or breakfast, these always meet 
with a cordial welcome. 

The same authority also commends, as a most delicious 
accompaniment to a meat course, the annexed 



DAINTY DISHES. 199 

Green Com Pudding. 

Take one quart milk, five eggs, two tablespoonfuls 
melted butter, one tablespoonful white sugar, and a dozen 
large ears of green corn. 

Grate the corn from the cob ; b«at the whites and yelks 
of the eggs separately. Put the corn and yelks together, 
stir hard, and add the butter, then the milk gradually, 
beating all the while ; next the sugar, and a little salt ; 
lastly the whites. Bake slowly at first, covering the dish, 
for an hour. Remove the cover, and brown finely. 

Buckwheat Shortcakes. 

Take three or four teacujjs of nice sour milk, one tea- 
spoon of soda-saleratus dissolved in the milk ; if the milk 
is very sour, you must use saleratus in proportion, with a 
little salt; mix up a dough of buckwheat flour thicker 
than you would mix for griddle cakes, say quite stiff; put 
into a buttered tin and then directly into the stove oven, 
and bake about thirty minutes, or as you would a short- 
cake from common flour. 

Dr. Chase, of Ohio, writes strongly in favor of the 
excellence of this cake, and says he could eat it while dys- 
{ eptic, when he could eat no other warm bread. He is 
also the authority for saying that the following is 

The Nicest Pie Ever Eaten. 

Peel sour apples, and stew until soft and not much 
water left in them, then rub them through a colander, 
beat three eggs for each pie to be baked, and put in at the 
rate of one cup of butter and one of sugar for three pies ; 
flavor with nutmeg. Bake as pumpkin pies, which they 
resemble. 



200 HOME COMFORTS. 

Strawberry Shortcake. Beecher. 

Rub into a pint and a half of prepared flour one teacup 
of butter; beat one egg very light; add milk to make a 
soft dough ; divide in three parts; roll out lightly, lay one 
portion on a pie plate or tin, sprinkle a little flour on the 
top, then add the second cake, a little flour on the top of 
that, and cover with the third. Bake quickly, but not too 
brown. Let the berries stand with sugar sprinkled over 
them till the cake is baked, then pull the thin portions of 
cake apart ; spread half of the berries over the bottom cake, 
adding more sugar and a little butter, lay the second over 
them, and put on the remainder of the berries, with more 
sugar and butter, placing the top cake over all. Put it in 
the oven for a few minutes to heat through, and send to 
the table. 

National Frencb Cake. Soyer. 

In Paris it was formerly the fashion, and perhaps is yet, 
for men and women, as w^ell as children, after having Avit- 
nessed a melodrama, to rush to the shops Avhere a delicious 
puff-cake, called Galette, was sold. This celebrated cake 
was made as follows : 

Work lightly in a basin, or on a table, one pound of 
flour with three-quarters of a pound of fresh butter; add 
two eggs, a gill of cream, and a little milk if too stiff; 
then add a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, two of sugar ; 
work all well to form a good stiff paste ; throw some flour 
on the table, mould the paste round, roll it three-quarters 
of an inch thick and quite round ; egg over, score it with a 
knife in diamonds or any other shape, bake for about half 
an hour in a rather hot oven, sprinkle sugar over, and 
serve. 



DAINTY DISHES. 201 

A cheaper kind of Galette may be made by taking one 
pound of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, and six ounces of 
butter, moisten with milk, and bake as above, adding a 
teaspoonful of sugar. 

Imperial Southern Cake. Mrs. Powell. 

Mrs. J. C. Powell, skilled in the Southern style of cook- 
ery, and who has promised to revise the proof-sheets of this 
chapter, has contributed for the benefit of our readers the 
following recipes for making Imperial Southern Cake, 
Baltimore Tea Cake, and Southern Corn Bread and Pone. 

Take one pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound 
of butter, ten eggs, one wine-glass of apple brandy, three 
pounds of blanched almonds, two of raisins, one pound of 
citron — the almonds put in whole, and the citron cut in 
large pieces. It will take from five to six hours to bake. 

Baltimore Tea Cake. 

Melt a tablespoouful of butter in a pint of milk, two 
spoonfuls of yeast (home-made), and flour sufficient to make 
a soft paste ; let the dough stand three or four hours to 
rise, split it open, then butter, close it, slice it, and send to 
table hot. Grease the pan before putting in to bake. 

Southern Waffles. 
Take a pint and a half of flour, three eggs, two table- 
spoonfuls of lightened corn-meal dough before adding the 
ingredients for corn bread, or pone, one large tablespoouful 
of butter in milk (warmed) to make a thin batter, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder (Durkee's). Bake in genuine 
waffle-irons, which are smooth iron of a jet black, which is 
very hard to find, even at the foundries. 



202 HOME COMFORTS. 

Grease the waffle-irons well. I recommend a baking: 
powder, but the old mode was to beat the batter one hour 
with a ladle before putting all of the milk in it. This 
recipe, if followed, will make waffles that cannot be ex- 
celled. 

Southern Com Bread. 

Take one pint of corn meal, pour half pint boiling 
water over it, then add a little salt, and with cold water 
reduce it to the consistency of muffin batter ; place in a cool, 
dry cellar for twenty-four hours to lighten, for if kept in 
a warm place, it will sour. 

Then beat three eggs, melt a piece of butter the size of a 
walnut, then lard the size of an egg, a cup of sweet cream, 
then a tablespoonful of flour ; grease the pan thoroughly, 
bake a half hour. White corn is far preferable to yellow, 
and in the South is expressly cultivated for table use, and 
ground by water, not by steam power, as the latter mode 
destroys the sweetness and vitality of the grain. 

The same batter may be used in rings, vvhich will give 
you corn muffins, or on the griddle, which are the genuine 
corn cookies. 

This is the best recipe known for corn bread, and next to 
the old Virginia Corn Pone, stands unrivalled. 

Virginia Com Pone. 

Quadruple the quantities above. The material differ- 
ence is in the baking, as the pone requires a longer time, 
and then must stand, after baking, eight to ten hours in 
the oven (moderately warm). Wood embers and a Dutch 
oven are requisites to a perfect Virginia pone. 



DAINTY DISHES. 203 

An Exquisite Marmalade. 
Take large ripe oranges, quarter them, remove the rind, 
seeds and the strings or filaments, taking care to save all 
the juice. Put the pulp, with the juice, into a porcelain 
kettle, and mix with it an equal quantity of strained honey, 
adding sufficient powdered loaf sugar to render it very 
thick and sweet. The honey alone will not make it sweet 
enough. Boil it uncovered, and skim till very thick, 
smooth and clear. Taste it, and if necessary add more 
sugar and boil it longer. When cold, put it up in tumblers 
or white ware marmalade pots, and cover it securely. This 
marmalade is said to be superior to any other, and can be 
made when the season for other fruits is over. 

Saratoga Fried Potatoes. 
At the " Lake House," in Saratoga, thousands of pack- 
ages of fried potatoes are sold every summer, to be carried 
away and eaten as a dainty. The following is said to be 
the method of preparing them : Wash the potatoes clean, 
slice with a potato-slicer very thin, throw into cold water 
long enough to take out some of the starch, then wipe dry 
and put into boiling lard, a few pieces at a time ; be sure 
and keep the lard boiling ; as soon as the potatoes are of a 
clear, golden brown, skim out, and drain in a colander or 
sieve. 

[In Philadelphia potatoes are fried in the following 
manner : 

The tools are a common cabbage-cutter, two wire sieves, 
and a "spider." Take say eight large potatoes, pare 
them and slice very thin with the cutter, soak the slices for 
two hours in cold water, stir into it one teaspoonful of salt 
to a quart, and let them remain half an hour in that. Pour 



204 H03IE C03fF0ETS. 

them into the sieve to drain, and when well-drained wipe 
the slices dry ; put a pound of lard into the spider, and 
when it becomes smoking-hot put in the potatoes. They 
must be constantly stirred to prevent the pieces from ad- 
hering to one another, and until they are sufficiently 
browned to make your mouth water, when they should be 
served at once.] 

Delicious Mince Pies. 

Take a pound of the undressed under-cut of a sirloin 
of beef, boil and mince it fine; drain oif the fat from 
it tlioroiighly, and mix in two ounces of fresh butter, 
half an ounce of finely-ground allspice, four large apples 
pared, cored and chopped fine, half a pound raisins 
washed and chopped fine, half a pound currants well 
washed, three tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, three ounces 
of candied orange peel (not lemon) ; mix the whole of these 
ingredients well together, then place a half-pound preserve 
jar of raspberry jam in boiling water, and let it remain 
without uncovering the jar until the jam is dissolved ; then 
strain the jam over the ingredients, taking care not to let 
the slightest portion of the seeds escape. Make paste and 
bake in a very quick oven. AVhen the pies are nearly cold, 
lift the corner of each, and pour over the mince a small 
quantity of brandy. These will keep good for three weeks. 

The peculiarity of these pies is, that no suet is used, Avliich 
agrees but with few persons, and that the juice of the rasp- 
berries gives them an indescribable but delicious flavor. 

Superior Vanilla Ice-Cream. Carver. 
The manufacture of ice-cream, as a branch of household 
economy, is increasing every year. The essential ingre- 
dients of all kinds are cream or rich milk, sugar, and some 



DAINTY DISHES. 205 

flavoring material, as vanilla, lemon, strawberry, or pine- 
aj)ple. Where milk is used, eggs are necessary, about four to 
two quarts of milk, and generally a tablespoonful of arrow- 
root, rubbed smooth in a cupful of milk, is added. The yelk 
of eggs is also stirred into boiled cream, where the richest 
quality of ice-cream is desired. But to make, say four 
quarts of superior vanilla ice-cream, take two quarts of 
pure cream, and add two-thirds of a pound of granulated 
white sugar; boil about half a vanilla bean, cut in small 
pieces, in a small quantity of milk or cream, taking care not 
to let it burn ; after the flavor is thoroughly extracted, add 
the whole to the sweetened cream, and when all is thor- 
oughly incorporated, strain into the can of the freezer, of 
which the best for family use is one of those patent-geared 
freezing apparatus turned by a crank. Full directions 
for their use accompany these machines, M'hich are quite 
inexpensive. 

Put the can into the wooden part of the freezer, and fill 
the space between the can and pail with broken pieces of 
ice about the size of a walnut, adding a handful of coarse 
rock salt to each layer of ice. Turn the crank until the 
wholie is frozen, which will take about twenty minutes. 
Draw off the water from the pail, fill up with ice and stand 
away to harden. One quart of good, pure cream will 
make very nearly two quarts of ice-cream. 

For lemon ice-cream, add the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon to each quart of cream, instead of the vanilla 
bean. For strawberry, one quart of bruised berries to four 
quarts of cream. 

17 



CHAPTER XI. 

DAINTY DISHES FOR DAINTY PALATES. 

"Among all the arts known to man tliere is none which enjoys a jnster 
appreciation, and the products of which are more universally admired, 
tlian that concerned in the preparation of our food. Led by an instinct, 
which has almost reached the dignity of conscious knowledge, as the un- 
erring guide, and by the sense of taste which protects the liealth, the ex- 
perienced cook, with respect to the choice, the admixture and tlie prepara- 
tion of food, has made acquisitions, surpassing all that chemical and 
physiological science has done in regard to the doctrine or theory of 
nutrition. In soup and meat sauces he imitates the gastric juices; and 
by the cheese which closes the banquet, he assists the action of the dis- 
solved epithelium of tlie stomach." — Liebig. 

2. HIGH CLASS COOKERY. 

are now prepared to approach the professors of 
" high class cookery," and leant wliat they choose 
to im[)art to ns respecting the mode of preparing 
those wonderful dishes of which even the names 
are' mvsterions. In some of the hotels and club-houses in 
the large cities, where costly banquets are often served, the 
chief cooks earn, in salaries and perquisites, sums greater 
than the salaries paid to the Judges of the Supreme Court 
or members of the Cabinet. In some of the fashionable 
restaurants in New York, dinners have been served where 
the flowers alone placed upon the table to garnish the 
viands cost fifteen hundred and even two thousand dollars. 
The kitchen and storehotise for provisions, in one of these 
206 




DAINTY DISHES. 207 

hostelries, extends for a square, and so methodically arranged 
that, it is said, the chef, without a spark of light, could 
descend into the kitchen and lay his hand at the first trial 
upon any cut of meat that may be ordered, and it would 
be found in readiness to place upon the fire. There is as 
much discipline among the subordinates as on board a 
man-of-war, and so complete is the system that the respon- 
sibility for a bad roast, or any other error, can be fixed 
with absolute certainty. The dinners prepared in these 
places are marvels of culinary skill, as may be supposed 
from their cost, which sometimes exceeds fifty dollars 
for each person. At a famous banquet given on New 
Year's day by the Owl Club in New York, plates were 
laid for twenty persons, and the total cost was $1000, or 
fifty dollars per plate. The bill of fare or menu, consist- 
ing of a little book containing fifteen leaves, partly printed 
in gilt, alone cost five dollars each. But the most costly 
bill of fare probably ever used at a dinner, was that which 
a Senator from the Pacific coast, largely interested in silver 
mines, placed before his guests, consisting of slabs of silver 
on which the courses had been engraved, and each of whicli 
was worth forty-five dollars by weight. These menus the 
guests were permitted to take home with them as memen- 
toes of their banquet. 

Mr. Charles Ranhofer, now President of one of the 
societies of chief cooks in New York, and until recently 
the chef in Delmonico's celebrated restaurant, has written 
out for this work the recipes of some of the dishes that 
were invented in that establishment; and, to make the 
matter plain to the dullest comprehension, he has given 
a Bill of Fare or menu of a dinner for twelve persons, and 
then shown how some of the principal dishes were com- 
pounde.I : 



208 H03IE COMFOBTS. 

MENU DINER POUR 12 PERS. 

Potage. 

Creme d'Asperges. 

Poisson. 

Truites de Riviere, Sauce Colbert, 

Salade de Concombres, 

Poinrues de terra Duchesse. 

Releve. 

Filet de Bceuf Salvandy. 

Entrees. 

Escaloppes de Volaille a rAquitaine, 

Petits pois au beurre. 
Brissotins de Ramiers au Supreme, 

Haricots Verts Sautes. 
Sorbet au Kirch. 
Becassines Roties. 

Letuce Salade. 
Ananas Bagration, 

Parfait au Cafe. 
Fruits and Dessert. 

How to Make Creme d'Asperge. 

Break the stalks of one hundred green asparagus; cut 
them in small pieces ; cook them in boiling water, with 
salt, in a copper sugar-pan. After they are perfectly- 
cooked, drain them, and mash them, with a piece of butter, 
and pass through a sieve. Then mix a quarter of pound 
of flour, with quarter pound of butter, and one quart broth ; 
stir the liquid until ebullition, wnth the asparagus; imme- 
diately remove it back, let it boil for about fifteen minutes. 
Skim the butter coming to the surface ; add one quart of 
cream, let it come near boiling; thicken with liaison of 
six yelks of eggs and about a quarter pound of butter ; 
season with salt and a pinch of sugar. Serve separately, 
a plate of small croutons or crusts of bread cut in small 
dice, fried with butter. 

If you want the soup to be green, pound a half peck of 
spinach, strain through a towel, put the liquor in a sauce- 



DAIXTY DISHES. 209 

pan on the fire until it comes near to a boil ; pour the 
liquid on a fine sieve, the water will pass through, and the 
solid part may be used to color the soup. 

Truite de Eiviere, Sauce Colbert. 

Lay enougli trout in a fish-kettle for twelve persons ; 
put on them two carrots, four onions, all sliced, two bay- 
leaves, a little thyme and parsley, a few cloves, salt and 
pepper, and a bottle of white wine (Bordeaux) and a quart 
of water. Set it on the fire and boil it for a few minutes, 
remove it back and keep it nearly boiling for about half 
an hour, according to the size of your trout. Strain half 
the liquor and put it into another saucepan ; stir the liquid 
to ebullition, until it is reduced to a half pint, add a little 
brown sauce, gradually introduce into it a half pound of 
fine butter divided in little bits ; finish the sauce with the 
juice of four lemons and a spoonful of chopped parsley. 
At serving time drain the fish, place them on a long dish, 
the bottom of which is covered with a napkin ; garnish 
all round with parsley. 

Serve the sauce separately. 

Pommes de terre Duchesse. 
Peel some potatoes, cut them in slices, wash them, salt 
them, and let them boil on a brisk fire ; as soon as they 
are nearly done, drain the water ; let them remain about 
ten minutes in the oven ; pass them through a sieve ; put 
this puree in a saute pan, with a little butter, salt and 
nutmeg ; add some yelks of eggs and a little cream ; make 
some moulds about the shape of an egg, flatten them down 
a little; beat one egg and spread some with a brush over 
the potatoes and brown in a brisk oven a few minutes 
before servins:. 



210 HOME COMFORTS. 

Filet de Eceuf Salvandy. 

Choose a well-shaped fillet of beef, of tender, streaky 
flesh ; after having taken away the superfluous skin and 
fat, the upper part is larded from one end to the other ; 
the fillet is then placed in a baking dish, and after having 
been cooked it is to be placed in a long dish for serving, 
having underneath it a support made with a piece of bread 
same length and width as the fillet, and about two inches 
in height, fried in butter or lard. Garnish the fillet all 
round with stuffed tomatoes, stuffed cucumbers, and some 
little patties ; fill with spinach; pour a little gravy on the 
bottom of the dish. 

A good reduced brown sauce, with Malaga wine, should 
he served up in a sauce boat. 

FILLETS OF CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES, ENGLISH PHEASANTS 
OR QUAILS. 

rillets of Chickens a I'Aquitaine. 

Select six tender middle-sized chickens; take up the 
fillets, carefully trim them round on one side and pointed 
at the other ; range them on the bottom of a saute pan, 
which must be covered with clarified butter ; place the 
fillet, in the same direction, the pointed side on the centre. 
Trim the minion fillets, make some incisions in them trans- 
versely ; slip into the incisions some slices of truffles, cut 
slantwise ; put those fillets minion on the large fillets. 

Force Meat. 

To make the force meat, you will use the trimming of 
the fillets and the legs of the chickens; trim the skin, 
bone and sinewy part to get about one pound ; cut them 
into small pieces, pound them and pas^< through a fine 



DAI^'^TY DISHES. 211 

sieve ; put your meat iu the mortar, with a half pound of 
panada (see panada), and pound well and add a half pound 
of butter and yelks of four eggs, and a half pint of cream, 
salt, white ])epper and nutmegs. 

Butter a tin or copper border mould which is flat on the 
top, fill it with the forced meat ; set the mould on a saute 
pan with warm water a half hour before serving; put 
your saute pan on a slow fire without boiling; at serving 
time turn the border out on a dish, dress the fillet on the 
border and garnish the centre with Ragout a I'Aquitaine. 

Ragout a I'Aquitaine. 

Put a pint of Madeira into a middle-sized saucepan, 
M'ith a few pieces of Ceylon cinnamon, add one quart of 
brown sauce ; let it boil slowly a few minutes ; skim well, 
pass through a sieve, add some scollops of duck liver, 
cockscombs, fresh mushrooms, cocks' kernels, and truffles. 

Panada. 
Put into a small stewpan a half pint of water, and a 
half ounce of butter; let it boil, and then introduce 
enough rice-flour so as to get a rather consistent batter; 
dry it on the fire till it can disengage itself from the stew- 
pan ; let it cool before using it. 

English Snipe. 
When the snipe liave been picked for trussing them, press 
the legs close to the side and pierce the beak through them, 
tie a slice of bacon over each bird, run a long skewer 
through the sides and tie them to the spit ; roast them on 
a good fire for about ten minutes ; in the meantime cut 
twelve slices of bread, fry them of a fine brown color in 
butter ; chop fine a few chickens' livers, with a little bacon ; 



212 HOME COMFORTS. 

season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and chopped parsley; 
garnish one side of the crust, bake thera in a hot oven for 
a few minutes. 

Serve thera with the bread under, and some gravy. 

Lettuce salad should be served at the same time with 
the snipe. 

Sorbet au Kirch. 

Make a lemon ice in the following manner : One quart 
syrup at 32 degrees ; add the rinds of two lemons ; the 
third part of a pint of lemon juice, a little piece of vanilla 
bean ; and add water enough to reduce it to 20 degrees ; 
let it macerate about two hours ; strain through a fine sieve 
and freeze ; after being frozen, add a wineglassful of kirch ; 
mix all well together, and serve in glass. 

Ananas a la Eagration. 

Pare all the skin and pith of one large pine-apple; 
divide it first into two pieces crosswise, then in slices not 
too thick ; put them into a kitchen basin, and cover them 
with boiling syrup one hour ; afterward pour the pine- 
apple through a sieve. 

Blanch a half pound of rice; boil it with milk, keeping 
it consistent ; when it is at the degree requisite, mix into it 
a few spoonfuls of raw cream and a little orange peel, 
chopped very fine; when the liquid is absorbed, take it off 
the fire, introduce into it a quarter pound of butter, then 
dish it up in the centre of the dish ; surround it with 
slices of pine-apple, and keep the, dish warm. 

Add a jar of peach marmalade to the syrup, and a little 
maraschino ; serve the sauce separately. 



DAINTY DISHES. 213 

Parfait au Cafe. 

Whip eight yelks of eggs with a half pound of sugar; 
Avhen the preparation is frotiiy, dilute it with a glassful of 
a very strong infusion of coffee; put the liquid into a 
copper basin tinned inside ; set it on the fire, stir the liquid 
until it is thickened, but without allowing it to boil ; pass 
through a fine sieve ; put it again in the basin, and whip it 
on ice until very light ; mix about one quart whipped cream 
which is firm and well drained ; line parfiiit mould with 
a white paper inside, pack it with pounded ice and salt, 
pour the preparation into the packed mould, which must 
be covered with white paper and with tlie lid ; spread over 
the lid a thick layer of salted ice, ])ack the preparation for 
one hour and a half; at serving time, dip the mould into 
cold water, wipe it and turn the parfait out on a folded 
napkin. 

August Valadon, Chef at the St. James Hotel, New 
Yorkj contributes the following original recipes : 

Salad Dressing. 

This sauce is made in many different Avays ; but the best 
and shortest way to make it is : 

Take the yelks of two raw eggs to a pound of sweet-oil ; 
put the yelks in a small bowl, with a little salt, white 
pepper and the juice of half a lemon ; stir with a whip or 
a wooden paddle, adding little by little the sweet-oil ; if it 
becomes too thick, soften with a drop of vinegar, and con- 
tinue until the oil is exhausted. This serves for dressing 
any kind of salad or cold fish. 



214 HOliE COMFORTS. 

Sauces, Croquettes, etc. 

Cream Sauce. — Take a half pound of butter, four ounces 
of flour, salt and pepper to taste; mix thoroughly; add to 
these one pint of cream and one pint of milk; put the 
mixture on the fire, and stir till it boils; add a little 
grated nutmeg. This is a good sauce for halibut, cod, 
scollops, etc. 

Currie Sauce. — Take five ounces of good butter, two 
ounces of flour, two teaspoonfuls of India currie, Cayenne 
to taste, also a little nutmeg. Stir well in a saucci)an, and 
pour in a little of the broth from the meat you want to 
have in currie. 

3Iaitre d' Hotel or SfcirareVs Sauce, Cold. — Take about 
a pound of good butter, put it in a bowl, mix with it some 
parsley and chives chopped fine, also the juice of a lemon. 
Serve under or on top of broiled meat or fish. 

English, or Bread Sauce for Game. — Take crumbs of 
fine white bread, stew them in equal parts of milk and 
cream, well seasoned with salt, pepper and nutmeg. In 
fifteen minutes the sauce will be done. 

Piquante Sauce. — Take a handful of shallots, chopped 
fine ; put them in a stewpan, -\vet them with strong vinegar, 
and boil it on a hot fire until nearly dry; add some 
ca})ers, pickles, parsley, chives chopped very fine. Then 
take another pan, and put into this four ounces of butter, 
and two ounces of flour; mix well, wet with a little broth, 
and boil for a few minutes. Mix the contents of the two 
pans together, and boil twenty minutes, and serve. 

Bice Croquettes. — Take half a pound of rice well washed, 
soak in a pint of milk, season with lemon or vanilla flavor, 
add half a pound of sugar, a little salt, and a piece of butter 
the size of a walnut ; cook on a slow fire ; as soon as it is 



D.lJ.Vrr DISHES. 215 

cooked, throw in six yelks of eggs, stir up well, pour out 
into a flat pan, and when cold, roll into convenient shapes, 
cover with egg and bread crumbs, and fry quickly in hot 
fat. Serve well-powdered with lemon or vanilla sugar. 

Cream fried. — Take a quart of milk and boil it. Then 
put in another pan half a pint of cream, two ounces of 
corn starch, half a pound of sugar, flavor to taste, and six 
yelks of eggs; mix well and pour this into the boiling 
milk ; stir all well together, and quickly pour into a flat 
pan to cool ; cut it up into round or square pieces ; bread 
as rice croquettes ; fry and serve hot, well-powdered with 
sugar. 

Omelette Sovffiee. — Take four eggs, separate the yelks 
and whites ; take the yelks and three ounces of i)owdered 
sugar, with some grated orange or lemon peel, beat well. 
Take the whites, beat them to snow, and mix the two to- 
gether. Shape in a silver dish any form you like. Bake 
in a hot oven for twelve minutes. Sugar over and serve. 

[It may be true, as the French say, that " cooking is 
all pleasure and no trouble;" but we apprehend that our 
readers will not take the same view of reading French 
recipes. A dainty chapter of such dainty dishes will 
satisfy their curiosity, as to what High Class cookery 
means.] 



CHAPTER XII. 

PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS OX CLOTHING. 

"All affectation in dress implies a flaw in the understanding." — Ches- 
TERFIKLD. 

" If there is one thing in which the schoolmaster or the reformer is 
more wanted than in another it is in our dress. From our birih to our 
death we are the slaves of fashion, of prejudice, and of circumstances. 
The tender, unresisting infant, the delicate girl, the mature wom:ni, 
alike sulFer from these evil inflnences. Some fall victims to them ; 
others sufler during life." — Mekkifield. 

tLOTHIXG constitutes so large an item in the comfort 
of families and the expenses of many households, 
that it deserves more consideration in a work of this 
*^ kind than we have space to give to it. 
Nearly three centuries ago the most renowned of English 
dramatists wrote : 

" Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, 
But not expressed. in fancy; rich, not gaudy; 
For the ajiparel oft proclaims the man." 

And this advice is as good and as practical to-day as 
when Shakspeare gave it. Thrifty housekeepers know, 
that to purchase materials of inferior quality for clothing 
because they are cheap, is not only a Avant of economy but 
gross extravagance. A rich man or woman may afford to 
make a mistake in the quality of a ])iece of cloth, but a 
216 



SUGGESTIONS OX CLOTHING. 217 

poor man cannot afford to bny any but goods of superior 
quality, liandsome and durable. 

Buying Olotli. 

"In purchasing cloth for family wear," says Lyman, 
"and especially for its adult members, regard should be 
had to the various uses to which the fabric may be put 
when the wearer has done with it. In this way a service- 
able piece of goods may be kept on duty until it no longer 
hangs together, and even then its parts may be made to 
contribute to the family comfort in the form of a quilt, a 
rug, or a carpet. With this in view, it will be found that 
cloths of a gray or neutral color can be converted to more 
numerous and various uses than either black or blue. 
Clothing of this color will bear washing, and it cuts u>j) for 
boys at a better advantage than any other. In choosing 
cloth for a gentleman's coat, and deciding on its cut, it is 
well to remember that a frock coat, while suited to a 
greater number of occasions than a dress coat or a sack, 
affords larger pieces for the pattern when it is cut u]) for 
smaller garments. For instance, the skirts of any frock 
coat in tolerable preservation will furnish an ample pattern 
for a business vest, which will be of almost as much ser- 
vice as though made of new cloth. The linings of the 
skirt, if not badly worn, will make the back of the vest ; 
and the body, if ripped in pieces, pressed, and cut down, 
will make a boy's jacket. The unworn parts of a fine 
silk or velvet vest will give a number of pieces, which, 
properly fitted together, will make a handsome cap for a 
boy; and almost the whole may be used in trimming 
children's clothing." 

In a general way it may be stated, that in a family of 
the average size, and disposed to a thrifty economy, no 
IS 



218 H03IE COMFORTS. 

article of dress should be thrown away. From the rim of 
a common felt hat double soles may be cut which will pro- 
tect the feet from the cold and damp of the winter. It 
may be worth while to remember that felt makes the best 
of gun-wads. From pieces left in cutting broadcloth, pin- 
cushions, caps and slippers may be manufactured. 

How to Clothe Children. 

It should never be forgotten that the temperature of 
children is some degrees lower than that of adults, and that 
of all ages which resist cold the least, and suffer from its 
ill effects the most, is early childhood. From early child- 
hood to adult age the capability of resisting cold increases, 
remains nearly stationary during the prime of life, and 
diminishes towards old age in about the same ratio as it 
increases in early life. There are certainly some old men 
who apparently resist the effects of cold as well as the 
young, but such cases are rare. 

The covering next to the skin of very young children 
should be of cotton; never, except in peculiar cases, of 
flannel. Over the cotton a fine flannel may be placed. 
When the child arrives at an age to take vigorous exer- 
cise, the flannel may be put under the cotton shirt, but not 
till then. The clothing of young children should be loose 
and free, and absolutely devoid of any tight ligatures 
around the throat, chest, or knees. Every joint must have 
full room for play, and no artificial support or bandage 
should on any account, except in special cases under medi- 
cal supervision, be applied to any portion of the body of a 
liealthy child. Bandages around the abdomen or stays 
around the waist are not to be tolerated, and the folly of 
exposing the limbs of children to the rigors of winter 
■weather is almost inconceivable. "I never see a poor 



SUGGESriOXS Oy clothing. 219 

child dressed as a young Highlander/' says an eminent 
medical authority, *' or in any fancy dress, witli its un- 
comfortable look and naked appearance, its poor bare 
knees and open neck, but that I prophesy for that child a 
future of colds, coughs, and throat disease, and a probable 
death of consumption." 

Men's Clothing. 
While all eccentricity or affectation in dress should be 
avoided by both sexes, it is not good policy to carry the 
idea of plainness and uniformity to the extreme adopted by 
some men, of having only one suit at a time, which is 
worn until it is shabby in appearance and then replaced 
by another. This is decidedly an expensive custom. A 
very short period of constant wear will cause the new look 
to leave the surface of the cloth, the button-holes and 
faces of the lapels will show wear, and it is impossible to 
appear well-dressed in that suit. Few are aware, or if 
they are, ever practise the plan of carefully folding and 
laying their clothes away for a Avhile in a trunk or drawer. 
All woollen goods, when kept in darkness, renew their 
lustre, and the dingy look produced by exposure to a great 
extent disappears. The insensible perspiration from the 
body, no matter how wholesome or cleanly a person's 
habits, will linger in any woollen garment. When they 
are temporarily laid aside they should be well aired and 
brushed, and folded so as not to show wrinkles, then 
placed where they will be free from dust and light. If the 
location is somewhat damp, so much the better ; for when 
wool is kept very dry the fibre becomes brittle and will not 
render good service. Two suits bought at the same time 
and worn alternately, following the above suggestions, the 
one not in service will last a third longer than one suit 



220 HOME COMFORTS. 

purchased and worn without intermission until not pre- 
sentable, and then another one procured and served in the 
same manner. 

Black and dark shades of blue cannot retain their lustre 
unless protected at intervals from the blanching effect of 
sun and wind. 

A gentleman who confines himself to two suits — one for 
full dress and one for daily wear — will, in the usual course 
of life and business, find himself unsuitably attired. It 
should never be forgotten that sailing, sporting, and 
travelling cannot be separated from roughness and dust, 
and garments will suffer more from a day of that kind of 
usage than a week's ordinary Avear, not speaking of the 
luxury of commanding a change. 

The wardrobe of a gentleman who mingles in society 
and indulges in the above-mentioned pastimes, should con- 
sist of, first, a full dress suit, and a medium dress suit for 
church, calling, or ordinary evening wear; usually made a 
frock coat, vest to match, and light pants. Then a busi- 
ness or travelling suit, for which the most proper material 
is Cheviot or mixed goods. 

For gunning, velveteens, fustians or corduroy are best 
ada{)ted, as they resist the briars, and stand any amount of 
hard usage. Sailing costumes are generally made of blue 
Cheviot or flannel, and coats cut double-breasted sack. 

Two overcoats are indispensable; one for winter and one 
for spring and fall. The materials suitable for these are 
so varied that it is simply a matter of taste. 

Gentlemen provided with an outfit like the above can 
safely consider themselves prepared for any emergency 
requiring appropriate dress, and in Avearing garments 
suited to the occasion lies the great secret in the economical 
manao-ement of clothes. 

o 



SUGGESTIONS OX CLOTHING. 221 

If colored trowsers are worn, those patterns should be 
selected wliicli conform to the rules of taste. Bars running 
across the legs should be avoided, and also all large staring 
patterns. Stripes down the side, or stripes of any sort, 
should be worn only by those who are tall and whose legs 
are straight, or else the eye, running along the stripe, will 
quickly detect any deviation from the perpendicular. 

How to Cleanse Broadcloths. 

The following mode has been tried repeatedly with uni- 
form success by Miss Beecher : 

Take one beef's gall, half a pound of saleratus, and four 
gallons of warm water. Lay the article on a table, and 
scour it thoroughly in every part with a clothes brush 
dipped in this mixture. The collar of a coat and the 
grease spots (previously marked by stitches of white 
thread) must be repeatedly brushed. Then take the article 
and rinse it up and down in the mixture. Then rinse it 
up and down in a tub of soft cold water. Then, without 
wringing or pressing, hang it to drain and dry. Fasten a 
coat up by the collar. When perfectly dry, it is sometimes 
the case withjcoats that nothing more is needed. In other 
cases it is necessary to dampen the parts which look 
wrinkled with a sponge, and either pull them smooth with 
tlie fingers or press them with an iron, having a piece of 
bombazine or thin woollen cloth between the iron and the 
article. 

How to Treat Wet Clothes. 

Handle a wet hat as ^lightly as possible. Wipe it as 
dry as you can with a silk handkerchief, and when nearly 
dry use a soft brush. If the fur sticks together in any 
part, dampen it lightly with a sponge dipped in beer or 



222 HOME COMFOBTS. 

vinegar, and then brush it till dry. Put a stick or stretcher 
into a damp hat to keep it in proper shape. 

When a coat gets wet wipe it down the way of the nap 
with a sponge or silk handkerchief. Do not put wet 
boots or shoes near the fire. 

How to render Cloth Water-proof, 
There are various processes for Avater-proofing cloth, but 
the following is a very simple and inexpensive method : 

Take of powdered alum and of sugar of lead each one 
ounce, and stir them into a gallon of rain water, and when 
the mixture is clear pour off the upper liquid. Choose 
Scotch tweed, or any light, closely-woven cloth, and im- 
merse it in this lic|uid for twenty-four hours ; then dry 
and press it. The cloth will be uninjured in color or 
texture, and will turn any amount of rain to Avhich the 
wearer is likely to be exposed. 

Buying Boots and Shoes. 

"With regard to boots and shoes, which are a source of 
much trouble, pain, and annoyance to most persons who 
have not secured for themselves an accurate kst, it may be 
said in general, that to secure ease it is a good plan to put 
on boo pairs of thick socks before being measured, and to 
remind the bootmaker that in walking the foot elongates 
fully half an inch, and to allow accordingly, or callosities 
and ingrowing nails may be the result. Of the thousands 
of boot and shoemakers in the country there are very few 
who have at all studied the principles of their trade, or 
know anything of the anatomy of the foot. The u])per 
leather should be soft and pliable ; the soles should be as 
broad as the foot when the weight of the body rests on it, 
and the heels neither hi^h nor narrosv. It is also econora- 



SUGGESTIONS ON CLOTHING. 223 

ical to purchase boots some time before they are wanted, 
in order to allow the leather to season ; and to have two 
pairs, to be worn on alternate days. 

How to Preserve Boots and Shoes. 

F. Maceroni, in a communication to the London Mechan- 
ics' 3Iagazine, says : " I have only had three pairs of boots 
for the last six years (no shoes), and I think that I shall 
not require any for the next six years to come ! The 
reason is, that I treat them in the following manner : I put 
a pound of tallow and half a pound of rosin in a pot on 
the fire ; when melted and mixed, I warm the boots, and 
ap])ly the hot stuff with a painter's brush, until neither 
the soles nor upper leathers will suck in any more. If it is 
desired that the boots should immediately take a good 
])olish, dissolve an ounce of beeswax in an ounce of spirits 
of turpentine, to which add a teaspoonful of lamp-black. 
A few days after the boots have been treated with the tal- 
low and rosin, rub over them the wax and turpentine, but 
not before the fire. Thus the exterior will have a coat of 
wax alone, and shine like a mirror. 

" Tallow, or any other grease, becomes rancid, and rots 
the stitching as well as the leather ; but the rosin gives it 
an antiseptic quality which preserves the whole." 

To cure boots and shoes of squeaking, which is a great 
annoyance, especially in entering a sick-room, or a church 
after the services have commenced, the remedy is to boil 
linseed oil and saturate the soles with it well and thor- 
oughly. 

Women's Clotliing. 
Woman's dress has been the subject of so much discus- 
sion without practical result, and is so intertwined and 



224 HOME COMFORTS. 

interlaced witli the caprices of fashion tliat at first glance it 
would seem there were no laws regulating it. To the blind 
votaries of fashion, the willing dupes of milliners and dress- 
makers who change styles to make work for themselves, 
nothing need be said ; but in every community there are 
many sensible women who would dress with taste if they 
knew what constitutes good taste in dress, and for their 
use and benefit we have read many criticisms and disquisi- 
tions, and digested the following points : 

1. Never buy an article of dress unless it be suitable to 
your age, style and the rest of your wardrobe. Nothing can 
be more objectionable in taste than to wear costly laces with 
a common delaine, or cheap lace with expensive brocades. 
Women, while shopping, are frequently tempted to buy 
Mdiat pleases the eye upon the counter, forgetting what they 
have at home to wear with it. "That parasol may be 
pretty, but it M'ill kill by its color one dress in the buyer's 
wardrobe and be unsuitable for the others." 

2. Whatever the material may be, let the quality be good, 
for it is never economy to purchase anything of an inferior 
kind, no matter how cheap it may be. "A good, strong, 
though coarse gingham," says Mrs. Lyman, " will be far 
more serviceable for a working dress than a cheap though 
showy calico ; and one handsomely printed calico, in fast 
colors, tastefully made and neatly fitting, is of far more 
real value to the wearer than those of a low grade, carelessly 
made and ill-shaped. For the mother of a family, whose 
duties frequently call her into the kitchen and who is sur- 
rounded by children, there is no dress so suitable as a 
calico, for none other is so easily cleansed of spots and 
odors contracted in the ordinary routine of her family life. 
Every time it is thoroughly washed, starched and ironed it 
is a new dress, fresh and sweet. To choose calico, rub it 



SUGGESTION'S ON CLOTHING. 225 

and see that there is not much dress, as it is called, in it. 
If a quantity of white powder falls out do not buy it, how- 
ever cheap, for it is a poor article and will not wear well. 
It is well for a mother to consider, when purchasing for 
herself, whether, after she has done with the garment, it 
can be wrought over for her family, and if she is in mod- 
erate circumstances it will be economy to buy goods that 
Avill answer to make over for her little girls. Children 
should always wear small figures or goods of a solid color, 
trimmed with braid or some other material of a contrasting 
hue. A neutral tint may be brightened by a crimson or 
scarlet trimming, while for bright, decided colors white or 
black trimming is most suitable." 

3. In buying an expensive dress it is advisable for those 
of limited means to select such as icill be serviceable under 
the greatest variety of circumstances. Black silk is of this 
description, as it may be worn appropriately to a wedding, 
a party, a funeral, or to church. It is nowhere out of taste, 
except in the kitchen. It may be made gay with bright 
trimmings, or sombre with those of the same color. It can 
be worn with hat and wrappings of every hue, and is never 
out of fashion. If the silk is figured, let the figure be 
small, the same on both sides, with no up or down to it, 
so that when worn at the bottom it can be turned upside 
down, and when soiled outside it can be turned inside out. 
Figured silks do not generally wear well if the figure be 
large and satin-like. Black and plain-colored silks can be 
tested by procuring samples and making creases in them ; 
fold the creases in a bunch and rub them against a rough 
surface of moreen or carpeting. Those which are poor will 
soon wear off at the creases. 

A chemist has discovered that hydrochloric acid is a 
powerful solvent of silk, though it has little effect on cotton 



226 II021E COMFOETS. 

or wool, at least for a long time. The practical value 
of this discovery to women is very great. The pur- 
chaser of a silk has only first to buy or obtain a few inches 
of it and drop a little hydrochloric acid, which can be ob- 
tained at any druggist's, on the centre of the piece ; if it be 
of 'pure silk, a hole will be made; if there is cotton in it, 
those threads will remain. 

Next to a black silk is a good black alpaca for service 
and gentility ; and for warm weather the different thin 
black fabrics are capable of great variety and utility. To 
wear white tastefully a woman must either be very young 
or quite pretty, and no stout lady can appear in it to ad- 
vantage. Its very purity suggests a contrast in comj)lcxion 
that is hard to bear in florid faces, or in those which have 
lost youth's downy freshness. 

4. In purchasuig dress goods, ladies should not forget 
their own shape or figure. A pretty, delicate, spotted linen 
that would make a little lady look charmingly sweet and 
simple would have a contrary effect on a tall, large one. 
Plaids are becoming for tall women, as they shorten the 
appearance of the figure. Stripes look becoming on a large 
person, as they reduce the apparent size. Flounces should 
be worn only by those of a tall, graceful figure, and then 
they should be made of a light material, so that tliey fall 
in gracefully with the outline of the dress ; when made of 
any rich stuff which stands out stiffly they break the grace- 
ful flow of the dress. Flounces, by marking the height at 
regular intervals, take away from it and make a short figure 
look shorter. 

A sensible writer on perfect taste in dress says : 

" Shawls are only properly worn by women of the camel- 
opard form. A short, squat figure, with the finest camel's 
hair shawl that ever left India, never looked really well. 



SUGGESTION'S ON CLOTHING. 22!! 

Some are bold enough to say that none but a French 
woman can ever fold herself gracefully in a shawl. Be 
that as it may, a stout American female does not shine ia 
one. In a velvet circular she will look grand and impres- 
sive ; in a good cloth sacque comfortable and cozy ; but in 
an astrachan, or sealskin, she will remind you of an over- 
grown Newfoundland, for fat women will not bear furry 
wrappings. 

"A large face should never bulge out of a small bonnet, 
nor be surmounted by a coquettish hat. A double-chin is 
solemnly opposed to butterfly head-gear, and only looks 
M'cll under a pretty, plain, sensible kind of bonnet. Too 
many feathers make short forms look topheavy ; one long, 
handsome plume will improve any one who can carry it 
gracefully; but a mingling of artificial flowers, feathers and 
ribbons, is too much — fashion notwithstanding." 

5. To dress with taste a woman must know her own face 
and select colors that harmonhe with her complexion. The 
great art, as regards color of dress, is to modify the tints 
of tlie complexion, care being taken to let the flesh appear 
of a healthy, natural hue, and to avoid wearing those colors 
which give the complexion a sickly or unnatural appear- 
ance. In this lies the secret of dressing well, but so ab- 
struse is the problem, so multifarious the considerations 
involved in its solution, that we wonder any woman's brain 
ever mastered it. 

Writers on the combinations of color in dress, divide com- 
plexions into the "fair and ruddy blondes" and the "pale 
and florid brunettes." In the fair blonde we find a delicate 
white skin, light hair — in all the shades from a golden hue 
to yellow or orange brown ; light blue or gray eyes ; a slight 
tinge of rose on the cheek, and a richer tint on the lips. 
In all such complexions the rose color is not decided 



228 I103IE COMFOETS. 

enough, and the hair would be improved by a deeper hue 
— and these changes can be made, in a good degree, by a 
suitable mingling of color in the dress. One of the most 
favorable colors for the fair blonde is a delicate green, as it 
imparts to the flesh-white of the skin a tint of red, which 
mingling with the natural hue forms an agreeable rose-tint 
— a good contrast both to the face and hair, especially if 
the hair is golden, inclining to orange. 

The most complete summary of what blondes should wear 
as trimmings for bonnets that we have seen has been made 
by Mrs. H. W. Beecher, and is as follows : 

[The best colors to mingle with green, as trimmings, 
are red, orange and gold. Green and gold form a rich 
harmony, peculiarly becoming to the fair blonde. Scarlet, 
blended with green, harmonizes better than red ; but if red, 
inclining to crimson, is used, then orange and gold must 
also be combined with it. There are some shades of green 
that are not becoming, unless blended with and enlivened 
by other harmonious colors. A green bonnet, with rose- 
color and white, with a white feather, will always be be- 
coming for this complexion. Be careful that too much 
white is not used, else it will have a cold effect, and there- 
fore will not aid the fair complexion so much. Orange or 
gold may be substituted for the pink or rose — also red, in 
a small bonnet, but neither should be placed close to the 
face. Orange in a green bonnet, in small quantities, is be- 
coming, if the wearer's eyes are blue. A few autumnal 
shades of red, orange or yellow-green are also in harmony 
with the fair complexion ; but dark-green is not at all 
desirable. 

Blue is very suitable, giving an orange tint, which har- 
monizes finely with the delicate white and flesh hues of the 
complexion. There is always a natural trace of orange 



SUGGESTIONS ON CLOTHING. 220 

color on the skin, and this color, by intensifying this natural 
tint, is very pleasing; but the blue must be light, and not 
too positive. Blue being the perfect contrast of orange, it 
agrees finely with golden or orange-brown hair. This is 
the reason that light-blue head-dtesses are so very becom- 
ing on light hair. To give a good effect to blue by gas- 
light, a little white or very pale blue is necessary to be in 
contrast, or very near the face. If there are green leaves 
with the blue flowers of a head-dress, they should be placed 
as near the face as possible. 

White, black, a very little yellow, orange, straw or stone 
color, may either of them be used in the trimmings of a 
light-blue bonnet, with good effect; but not if there are 
})ink or purple flowers on it, as those colors mingled with 
blue are unsuitable. The colors to bo used carefully or 
avoided altogether, v/ith fair complexions, are yellow, 
orange, red and purple. The light shades of lilac may be 
sometimes used; but it is very trying to, and must always, 
if used, be separated from the flesh by an edging of tulle 
or some similar trimming — or be associated with its har- 
monizing colors — cherry, scarlet, light crimson or gold 
color, and then they will in part overcome the bad effects; 
but green and lilac should never be coupled, as it will 
form a positive discord. A very little light purple is 
agreeable for a head-dress on light hair, but must be 
placed near the skin. 

Neutral colors, if not too dark, accord well with fair 
blondes — gray, fawn, drab, and some few shades of brown 
are the best. Black is good for the fair blonde who has 
some healthy color, because it increases the rose in the 
complexion ; but it is bad for pale skins, as it bleaches 
them by the painful contrast. No delicate color can be 
blended with black without seeming of a lighter tone. 
19 



230 IT03IE C02TF0nTS. 

Unless used for mourninp:, l)lack must be mingled M'ith 
either blue, cherry, mulberry, drub or lilae, to remove the 
sombre effects ; but cherry and lilac must be used sparingly. 
Red must not be used at all with black for fair blondes, as 
it gives a rusty tinge. * White is suitable with black, if 
some other color is added ; otherwise it is too cold. A 
black bonnet looks well with a fair complexion, but a 
little Avhite and rose color should be added, keeping the 
rose away from the skin. White is pleasant for all com- 
plexions, but more so with the fair blonde who has some 
color than for any other. Bright colors with white bonnet 
may be added, but must be ke])t low and well grouped. 
White increases the paleness of a pale skin ; but this effect 
may be neutralized by a blue or green wreath brought well 
on the face. 

The ruddy blonde has a full-toned complexion, inclining 
to a positive rose-red, or carnation ; dark blue or brown 
eyes and brown haii". All the colors suitable for the fair 
blonde are generally suitable for the ruddy blonde, but the 
tones, and in some cases the hues, must be changed. As a 
rule this type may use more freedom in the selection of 
colors than the fair; her comj^lexion, not being so delicate, 
is less sensitive. The hair being the medium between gold 
and black, and the complexion higher toned and more 
positive, rich and moderately dark colors may be used. 

For brunettes purple and dark maroon and yellow and 
orange are suitable colors. Among brunettes there are a 
few who are so jiallid that to wear stone-gray will render 
them almost ghastly. For such there is drab of the 
creamy or pinkish order that is singularly becoming. A 
tiiiy band or two of scarlet velvet around shining black 
hair has a very fine effect.] 

Lastly. Follow fashion so far as it is in consonance with 
good taste, but avoid extremes. 



SUGGESTIOXS ON CLO THING. 231 

Hints to Wearers of Kid Gloves. 

It is not generally known, or does not appear to be 
known, even by those who wear kids almost exclusively, 
that the durability and set of these articles depend very 
much upon how they are put on the first time. Two pairs 
may be taken from one box, of exactly the same cut and 
quality, and by giving different treatment when first put- 
ting the hands into them, one pair will be made to set 
much better, and to wear doubly, or nearly that length of 
time longer than the other. When purchasing gloves, 
people are usually in too much of a hurry ; they carelessly 
put them on, and let them go in that way then, thinking 
to do the work more completely at another time. When 
this is the case a person is sure to meet with disappoint- 
ment, for as the glove is made to fit the hand the first 
time it is worn, so it will fit ever after, and no amount of 
effort will make a satisfactory change. Never allow a 
stretcher to be used, for the gloves will not be likely to fit 
as well for it. All of the expansion should be made by 
the hands. If the kids are so small as to require the aid 
of a stretcher, they should not be purchased, as they will 
prove too small for durability, comfort, or beauty. When 
selecting gloves, choose those with fingers to correspond 
with your own in length ; take time to put them on, work- 
ing in the fingers first, until ends meet ends ; then put in the 
thumb, and smooth them down until they are made to fit 
nicely. A glove that sets well will usually wear well, at 
least will wear better than one of the same kind that does 
not fit Avell. When the ends of the gloves do not come 
down right, or when they are so long as to form wrinkles 
upon the sides of the fingers, they will chafe out easily. 
Where the stretcher has to be used to make the fingers 



232 HOME CGMFOBTS. 

large enough, the body part will be so small as to cramp 
the hand so that it cannot be shut without burstins: the 
seams of the kids. Some recommend putting new kid 
gloves into a damp cloth before they are put on, and 
aUowing them to remain until moistened. AVith this 
treatment they can be put on much easier than otherwis'^, 
and will tit very nicely until they get dry ; but on second 
wearing there will be an unnatural hai'sl)ness about them, 
wrinkling in spots, and they will not set so perfectly as at 
first. 

How to Dress to Sit for a Photograph. 

Very few \vomen, except actresses and singers, know 
liow to dress so as to secure the most pleasing photograph. 
Some photographers have Avritten manuals of instruction 
on this point, and they state that the best materials for 
ladies to wear are such as are not too glossy and will fold 
or drape nicely, as reps, poplins, satins and silks. A black 
silk dress looks mcII on almost everybody, and if not 
bedecked with ribbons, or lace which will take white, ^\\\\ 
photograph satisfactorily. So garnet, cherry, wine color, 
sea or bottle-green, light and dark orange, light Bismarck, 
and slate color are all excellent colors to photograph. But 
pure white is bad, and lavender, lilac, sky blue, purple, 
and French blue take very light, and are even worse than 
pure white. Striped goods, or goods having bold patterns 
in them, should never be worn for a picture. Avoid any- 
thing that will look streaky or spotty. 

The dressing of the hair is also a matter of importance. 
If the forehead be high, which is not a mark of beauty in 
any woman, it should be partially concealed by the hair or 
curls ; so on a long, stork-like neck a few drooping curls 
vi'\\\ add to the effect agreeably. 



SUGGESTIOWS ON CLOTHING. 233 

Children should not be dressed in startling plaids and 
gaudy colors, or a variety of colors ; nor do they photo- 
graph well in white or very dark dresses. 

To Wash Chintz. 

Many ladies will be glad to know how chintz may be 
washed so as to preserve its gloss and beauty. The follow- 
ing are the directions : 

Take two pounds of rice and boil it in two gallons of 
water till soft ; when done, pour the whole into a tub ; let 
it stand till about the warmth you use in general for col- 
ored linens; then put the chintz in and use the rice instead 
of soap; wash it in this till the dirt appears to be out ; 
then boil the same quantity as above, but strain the rice 
from the water and mix it in warm, clear water. Wash 
in this till quite clean; afterwards rinse it In the water you 
have boiled the rice in, and this will answer the end of 
starch, and no dew will affect it, as it will be stiff as long 
as you wear it. If a gown, it must be taken to pieces, and 
when dried be careful to hang it as smooth as possible. 
After it is dry rub it with a sleek stone or agate, but use no 
iron. 

How to Wash Summor Dresses. 

In the washing of summer suits a few useful hints may 
be appreciated. Nearly all are made of white or buff 
linen, pique, cambric or muslin, and the art of preserving 
the new appearance after washing is a matter of the very 
greatest importance. 

Common washerwomen spoil everything with soda, and 
nothing is more common than to see the delicate tints of 
lawns and percale turned into dark blotches and muddy 
streaks by the ignorance of a laundress. It is w^orth while 
for ladies to pay attention to this, and insist upon having 



231 HOME COMFORTS. 

their Slimmer dresses washed aooording to directions, wliich 
they should be prepared to give their laundresses them- 
selves. In the lirst plaee, the water should be tepid, and 
the soap should not be allowed to touch the f;d)ric. It 
should be washed and rinsed quickly, turned upon the 
wrong side, and hung up in the .s/kkJc to dry. It should 
then be starched in thin boiled, but not boiling starch, and 
after again drying, should be nicely and evenly dampened 
and ironed upon the wrong side as soon as possible. Buff 
linen should be washed in water in which hay has been 
boiled, or a quart bag of bran .will answer as well. The 
latter is perhaps best, for it will be found to do for starch 
as well, and is excellent for print dresses of all kinds. A 
handful of salt is very useful also to set the colors of light 
cambrics and dotted lawns. Beef's gall will not only set, 
but M'ill heighten yellow and purple tints, and has a good 
effect upon green. 

How to Detect Cotton in Linen. 

In buying linen seek for that which has a round, close 
thread, and is perfectly white ; for if it be not white at 
first it will never afterward become so. Much that is 
called linen at the stores is half cotton, and does not wear 
so well as cotton alone. Cheap linens are usually of this 
kind. It is difficult to discover which are all linen ; but 
some housekeej)ers take a sample from a lot presumed to 
be good, wash it and ravel it. If this be good, they con- 
clude the rest of the same lot will also be good. If they 
cannot do this they draw a thread each way, and if both 
appear equally strong it is probably all linen. 

To detect cotton in linen one of the best methods is 
microscopic examination ; for when flax is magnified three 
hundred times, it appears like long, compact tubes, with a 



SUGGEST10^^S ON CLOTHING. 235 

narrow channel in tlie centre ; wliile cotton appears to be 
flattened, ribbon-like cylinders, with a wide channel, and 
mostly in spiral windings. 

The test with oil of vitriol is reliable in an experienced 
hand, bnt every trace of weaver's gum must have been 
previously removed by boiling with water. The fibres 
are laid on a plate of glass, and oil of vitriol dropped on it. 
A single lens is sufficient to observe the effect. In a short 
time the cotton fibre is dissolved, while the flax is un- 
altered, or only the finest fibres attacked. 

The oil test is also a good one, and convenient in execu- 
tion. When flaxen fibres are rubbed up with olive oil, 
they appear translucent, like oiled paper; while cotton, 
under similar circumstances, remains white and opaque. 
Dyed goods exhibit the same, if previously bleached by 
chloride of lime. 

Flannels. 

Flannel is the most healthy and serviceable article for 
underclothing that can be worn by every one except very 
young infants. Its peculiar merit, in which it excels all 
other materials, is that it keeps the vessels of the skin con- 
stantly open, stimulates them to free perspiration, and 
protects them from the chilling effects of external moisture. 
All persons who lead lives of exposure should adopt 
flannel undergarments, and especially farmers, who perform 
tiieir work under wide differences of temperature, and who 
are peculiarly liable to diseases that result from a sudden 
check to copious perspiration. 

Those women who, like cats, are not fond of water on 
tlieir skin, and who do not take much physical exercise, will 
be especially benefited by wearing flannel. The objection 
made to this fabric, that it irritates the skin, is in fact an 
advantage; for the irritation is healthful, and may be 



236 II02II: C03IF0ETS. 

entirely allayed by friction of the skin when woollen gar- 
ments are removed npon retiring, as they invariably shonld 
be. A little persistence in this practice will inure the skin 
to its new covering, after which no inconvenience will be 
felt. 

Many persons fall into serious disease by changing their 
winter flannels too soou. The first of May is quite early 
enough to lay them aside for a thinner material, south of 
Virginia, Tennessee, and Kentucky ; but the people of 
those States, and north of them, should not make the 
change earlier than the last of May. An old physician, 
when asked what was the proper time to take off flannels, 
said the thirty -first day of July ; and when to put them 
on again, said the first day of August. 

Eow to Wash Flannels. 

One of the great difficulties that an inexperienced house- 
keeper meets with, is in the discoloration and shrinkage of 
flannels, and few indeed know the best methods of washing 
them. Mrs. Lyman has summarized the directions in the 
following rules : 

1st. Never apply soap dirccfli/ i:o any woollen fabric. 
Make a strong hot suds, and plunge the garment in it. 

2d. Never dip a flannel in cold, or even cool, water, 
but always hot. Wash first in hot suds, and rinse in hot 
Avater made very blue. 

3d. Dry flannels as quicldy as jjossible. Wring dry 
from the second water, and hang either in the hot sun, or 
before a brisk fire. When nearly dry, press with a hot 
iron. It may also be remarked that none but soft water- 
should be used upon flannels, and resin soap is much in- 
ferior to common soft soap, as it hardens the fibres of 
woollens. 



SUGGESTIONS ON CLOTHING. 237 

To Soften Hard Water. 

It is said that half an ounce of quicklime put in nine 
quarts of water, and the clear solution put into a barrel of 
hard water, will make it soft. It is also said that a tea- 
spoonful of sal-soda will soften from three to four pails of 
hard water. This is a valuable recipe for housekeepers if 
true, and one which can easily be tested. 

An Easy Way to Wash Clothes. 

The night before washing day, put the clothes to soak in 
water, and also place~t)n the hot stove, in a suitable vessel, 
two pounds of soap cut small, one ounce borax, and two 
quarts water. These may be left to simmer till the fire 
goes out; in the morning the mixture will be solid. On 
washing day operations are commenced by setting on a 
stove or furnace the wash-kettle nearly filled with cold 
water. Into this put about one-fourth of a pound of the 
compound, and then wring out the clothes that have been 
soaking, and put them into the kettle. By the time that 
the water is scalding hot, the clothes will be ready to take 
out. Drain them well, and put them into clean cold water, 
and then thoroughly rinse them twice. 

Refined Borax, in the proportion of one large handful 
of the powder to ten gallons of boiling water, is said to 
save nearly one-half of the soap, and make the clothes 
beautifully white and clear. It is a neutral salt, and will 
not injure the fabric. The washerwomen of Belgium and 
Holland, so famous for the beauty of their work, use borax 
instead of soda. 

How to Keep Silks. 

Silk articles should not be kept folded in white paper, as 
the chloride of lime used in bleaching paper may impair 



238 HOME COMFORTS. 

the color of the silk. Brown or blue paper is better than 
white, and the yellowish smooth India paper better than 
any other. Silk intended for a dress should not be kept in 
the house long before it is made up, as lying in the folds will 
have a tendency to impair its durability by causing it to 
cut or split, particularly if the silk has been thickened by 
gum. 

To Secure Woollens, Furs, etc., from Moths. 

Carefully shake and brush woollens early in the spring 
so as to be certain that no moth eggs are in them ; then 
sew them up in cotton or linen wrappers, putting a piece of 
camphor gum, tied up in a bit of muslhi, into each bundle, 
or into the chests and closets where the articles are to lie. 
"When the gum has evaporated it must be renewed. A lady 
put up her blankets aud carpets in this way before going to 
Europe, and on her return, three or four years after, found 
every article safe from moths. 

Furs should not be hung out in the sun in the spring be- 
fore being put away for the season. The moth miller will 
be likely to visit them when thus exposed. They should 
be put in a close box with a piece of camphor, and the box 
tied up in a pillow-case or bag. Blankets that are in use 
occasionally during the summer should be laid, when not 
wanted, under a mattress in constant use, or in a trunk 
where there are pieces of camphor gum, tobacco, or cedar 
chips. Boxes lined with ordinary roofing felt are said to 
be equal to cedar for keeping out moths, and much cheaper. 
It is more difficult than it used to be, to preserve woollens, 
carpets, furs, and furniture from being injured by moths. 
Thirty years ago it was regarded as an indication of very 
negligent housekeeping to have a moth-eaten carpet. Now 
the utmost care will not preserve carpets from being injured 



SUGCrESTIOXS O.Y CLOTHING. 239 

in this way. Perhaps the reason may be that, in general, 
Avarehonses and dwellings are warmed throughout, during 
the winter, by furnaces. New stuffed and cushioned furni- 
ture is sometimes found to contain moths. To destroy them 
pour burning-fluid plentifully upon the cushions, sofas, etc. 
If it is fresh, it will leave no stain, and the disagreeable 
odor will soon pass away. 

To preserve a carpet that cannot be shaken often, draw 
out the tacks twice a year, turn back the edges a quarter of 
a yard all around, brush out the dust, and then with a 
painter's brush put new spirits of turpentine upon the 
boards as far as the carpet is turned back ; then return it 
immediately to its place, and put in the tacks. 

The floors of some houses have moths in the cracks. In 
til is case cedar sawdust, sprinkled over the floor before lay- 
ing the carpet down, will protect it from these diligent mis- 
chief-workers. If this cannot be had, use tar-paper. 

How to Judge Furs. 

In purchasing furs, a sure test of ^vhat dealers call a 
])rime fur is the length and density of the down next to the 
skin. This can readily be determined by blowing a brisk 
current of air from the mouth against the set of the fur. 
If the fibres open readily, exposing the skin to view, reject 
the article ; but if the down is so dense that the breath 
cannot penetrate it, or if at most but a small portion of the 
skin is shown, the article may be accepted. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

THE SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 

" It has been affirmed, and I think correctly, tliat from the relative 
attention paid in any country to cleanliness, the cosmetic arts, dress and 
hygiene, and from the respective prevalence, influence and mutations of 
custom and fashion, may its claims to civilization, refinement and luxury 
be vindicated." — CuuLKY. 

f 

fllE oiicl and aim of su]ierior skill in housekeeping is 
to increase the comfort and promote the health of 
families. Now health is the fountain of personal 
beauty, and the direct and intimate connection be- 
tween health and beauty leads us to consider what science 
has to offer for the im|M-ovement of the form and com- 
plexion, and the presei'vation of the hair, the teeth, the 
hands, the feet, and other members of the body. 

How to Eeduce Corpulence. 

With respect to beauty of form, its two greatest enemies 
are excessive corpulence and excessive leanness. " Corpu- 
lence," says Dr. Clark, " is a disease that sometimes proves 
fatal. The difficulty of breathing with which very corpu^ 
lent people are 0]ipressed, is caused by an accumulation of 
fat on the kidneys, which obstructs the motion of the dia- 
phragm ; whilst the heart and large blood-vessels being 
equally encumbered, a slowness of pidse is produced, and 
pos.iibly apoplexy and death." It is remarkable that the 



SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 241 

cnra for this disease is comparatively a modern discovery. 
Remedies, it is true, have been proposed, such as violent 
physical exercise, rowing, boating, riding on horseback, 
Turkish baths, natural waters, fasting ; but none of them 
have proved effectual in preventing the accumulation of 
fat in those inclined to obesity. 

Modern science, however, has discovered that to prevent 
or reduce corpulence you must, besides taking active and 
regular exercise, not indulge in much sleep, and especially 
abstain from those articles of food which contain starchy and 
saccharine matter. Stock-raisers have long known that 
certain foods will fatten animals and others will not, and it 
is inexplicable that medical men have been so slow in ap- 
l)lying this principle for the benefit of the human family. 
William Banting, Sr,, is entitled to the credit of making 
known what can be done by attention to diet, as illustrated 
in his own personal experience. He was a short, fat Eng- 
lishman, five feet five inches high, who weighed 202 
pounds, when, according to Hutchinson's tables, a healthy 
man of that stature should not weigh more than 142 
pounds. Under advice of his physician. Dr. Harvey, of 
London, he commenced a system of diet to reduce corpu- 
lence, and succeeded in taking off forty-six pounds of fat 
in a year, without detriment to his health. He was per- 
mitted to eat any kind of meat, except veal and pork ; any 
kind of fish, except salmon, herrings and eels; any vege- 
tables except potatoes, parsnips, beets, turnips and carrots ; 
any kind of poultry and game, a little cheese or boiled 
rice; and to drink tea without milk or sugar, and claret, 
sherry or Madeira wines. He Avas forbidden to eat bread, 
except in the form of toast or biscuit, and butter, milk, 
sugar, potatoes, and the other vegetables above excepted, or 
to drink ale or beer, champagne or port wines. After two 
20 



242 HOME C03IF0RTS. 

years' experience he writes : " In my humble judgment 
the dietary Ls the principal point in the treatment of cor- 
pulence, and it appears to me, moreover, that properly 
regulated, it becomes in a certain sense a medicine." 

How to Cure Leanness. 

To cure excessive leanness the practice must be exactly 
the opposite of that just related, that is, indulge in sleep, 
take but little exercise, eat bread and butter and potatoes, 
oily fish and pork, take milk and sugar in your tea and 
coffee, and drink beer and champagne and port wines. A 
lean dog, however, being the best for a long chase, unless 
the leanness is excessive it would be advisable to trust to 
nature and advancing years for an increase of avoirdupois. 

Many ladies who are not troubled with general obesity 
of the system have a superabundant development of the 
breast. The modern mode of reducing this is by a prejiara- 
tion of iodine ; but as this is a dangerous internal medicine 
in unprofessional hands, we, says a physician, shall recom- 
mend its external use, thus : Take 

Iodide of zinc 1 drachm, 

Hog's lard 1 ounce ; 

mix M-ell, and rub daily into each breast a piece about the 
size of a nutmeg ; a linen bandage so placed as gently to 
compress the breast without pressing upon the nipple, will 
assist its operation. We need scarcely say, this must noi; 
be done during lactation. 

Some of the old practitioners recommend pounded mint 
api)lied to the breasts, accompanied with bandages, to check 
their exuberant growth. 

For those whose breasts participate in their general 
leanness, the only remedy that science seems to furnish is to 



SECBETS OF THE TOILET, 243 

have the bosom loosely clothed, avoiding all pressure ; and 
Sir James Clark advises that friction with the hand for an 
hour or two every day will assist much in its development. 

How to Beautify the Complexion. 

Beauty of complexion is valued by many even more than 
beauty of form, and some ladies will spend more time and 
money to improve the appearance of the face than for any 
other object. Even young men have been known to use 
pearl powders and rouges, and to pinch their cheeks until 
red, to give them a delicate tint. 

The clearness or beauty of the complexion is so inti- 
mately dependent upon the state of the stomach and liver, 
that unless these have their proper action, all external a])- 
plications can be but temporary expedients. In addition 
to a healthy condition of the stomach and liver, the pores 
of the skin must have free and undisturbed action. The 
skin of the face, as well as of all the other parts of the 
body, is full of little pores or holes, so minute that it is said 
a grain of sand will cover 25,000, and if these be clogged, 
the skin will commence to wither and fade, and the beauty 
of the face will depart. Hence the importance of daily 
washing, frequent bathing, and the danger of the constant 
use of powders, balms, blooms, euamels, which fill up the 
pores and dry the skin. 

There are many articles that may be used for the face 
which are not in the least injurious, but, on the contrary, 
may be of great advantage to it. 

The following elegant and serviceable lotion any lady 
can keep as an article of her toilet, and make free daily use 
of it, as it will be of great benefit in enhancing the healthy 
condition of the skin : 



244 HOME COMFORTS. 

E.. — Glycerine 2 oz. 

Rose water 12 oz. 

Camphor water 1 oz. 

Alcohol or bay rum 1 oz. 

Jockey club, oil of rose, or any perfume may be added 
that may be desired. 

This lotion will be found to impart a very soothing and 
pleasant effect. Should any one prefer not to have the 
glycerine in it, the following can be substituted : 

K. — Bay mm 5 oz. 

Rose water 10 oz. 

Camphor water 1 oz. 

Soap should not be very frequently used ; it is better for 
the face not to make too free use of that article. Instead 
of using soap so often, use freely the following harmless 
wash, wiiich M'ill take the place of soap to a great extent, 
and keep the skin nice and clean, and not in any way ob- 
struct the free action of the pores, but will remove obstruc- 
tions and prevent clogging : 

R. — Powdered borax 6j drachms. 

Rose water \ pint. 

"Water J pint. 

Dissolve together, and use daily. 

How often is a well-defined face, with all the lines per- 
fect, made completely unattractive from being incumbered 
with pim])les, blotches, or a chronic impurity or defect of 
the skin ! For these Dr. Bateman jsrescribes what is 
known as his Sulphur Wash : 

Break one ounce of sulphur, and pour over it one quart 
of boiling water ; allow it to infuse for twelve or fourteen 
hours, and apply to the face two or three times a day, 



SECEETS OF THE TOILET. 245 

for a few weeks. TJiis application is equally U3:?ful in 
removing that roughness of the skin which generally suc- 
ceeds pimples. A more powerful application is sometimes 
prepared with vinegar and the acetated liquor of ammonia, 
or the spirit of mindererus. Or the following, which will 
be equally effective, and known as Sir William Knighton's 
Lotion : 

Half a drachm of liquor of potassa, three ounces of 
spirits of wine ; to be applied to the pimples with a camel's- 
hair brush, and if too powerful, add half an ounce of cold 
Avater, which has been boiled and strained ; distilled water 
is better. 

AVhen the face is to be exposed to a hot sun or a high 
wind, wash it, previous to and after exposure, with a little 
pure water, in which pour a teaspoonful of liquor of potassa 
and a few drops of cologne water. This it is said will 
prevent sunburn. 

Frecldes are by no means an easy thing to cure, especially 
in persons having red hair, but almond paste, made of 
an ounce of bitter almonds, honey and barley flour, may 
do it. Dr. Withering^ s Cosmetic Lotion for freckles was 
compounded as follows : 

Take a teacupful of sour milk ; scrape into it a quantity 
of horseradish ; let it stand for several hours, then strain 
well, and apply with a camel's-hair brush two or three 
times a day. 

The following recipes are also said to remove either 
freckles, tan or sunburn, and are certainly harmless : 

Dip a bunch of green grapes in a basin of water ; sprinkle 
it with powdered alum and salt mixed ; wrap the grapes 
in paper and bake them under hot ashes; then express the 
juice, and wash the face with the liquid, which will usually 
remove either freckles, tan or sunburn. 



246 HOME COMFORTS. 

Or, put two spoonfuls of sweet cream into half a pint of 
new milk ; squeeze into it the juice of a lemon, add half a 
glass of genuine French brandy, a little alum and loaf 
sugar; boil the whole, skim it well, and when cool it is fit 
for use. 

Birthmarks and Holes may be eradicated in infancy, but 
the advice of a skilful physician should be taken. Readers 
are admonished against the use of depilatories to remove 
hair from moles, as a fetid suppurating wound has fre- 
quently been a consequence of such attempts. 

WrinJdes, being occasioned by the obstruction or oblitera- 
tion of the finer blood-vessels, may be prevented by the 
use of lotions that stimulate the small threadlike blood- 
vessels and moisture pipes, which have been closed, and if 
the stimulating process be adopted previous to the closing 
of these vessels, they will not be obliterated. 

Take two ounces of onion juice, two ounces of the white 
lily, two ounces of Narbonne honey, and one ounce of 
white wax ; put the whole into a new earthen pipkin until 
the wax is melted, and then take the pipkin oif the fire and 
continue stirring until it is cold. Apply on going to bed, 
and allow it to remain on until morning. 

For Tetter or Ringworm in the face. — Take some aperient 
medicine daily, and when the eruption becomes painful, 
or itches violently, take the following sedative lotion : 

E. — Liquor plumbi 1 drachm. 

Distilled water 1 ounce. 

This is an excellent lotion for allaying itching and in- 
flammation generally. 

The following is a novel cure for ringworm : Heat a 
shovel to a bright red, cover it with grains of Indian corn, 
press them with a cold flat-iron. They will burn to a coal 



SECEETS OF THE TOILET. 247 

and exude an oil on the surface of the flat-iron, with which 
rub the ringworm, and after one or two applications it will 
be cured. 

How to Secure Beautiful Hair, 

The hair has always been considered one of the most 
important appendages of the human form, and is the 
especial glory of women. In ancient times, red or auburn 
was the favorite color of poets and painters, but gradually 
this was supplanted in public favor by preference for black 
or dark-brown hair, though recently red has again been 
quoted as fashionable. 

In order to secure a beautiful head of hair, whatever may 
be the color, it is necessary to begin in childhood, and to 
observe the following rules : 

1. The hair of children should never be plaited, or 
braided, or twisted, or knotted. 

2. Nothing should ever be put on it except simple, pure 
water, and not even this until the scalp is cleansed. 

3. The hair should be kept short. It would be a valu- 
able accomplishment if when a woman becomes a mother a 
few lessons were taken from a good barber, so that the 
child's hair, after the third year, might be trimmed by its 
mother once a week, only cutting off the longest hairs, by 
ever so little, so as to keep it of uniform length. This 
practice is proper for male and female. 

4. The hair should be always combed leisurely, and for 
some considerable time, at least every morning, and neither 
brush nor comb ought to be allowed to pass against the 
direction of the hair's growth. 

To Cure Baldness. — The growth of hair may be promoted 
on a fuzzy scalp, because in that case the root is not dead, 
but lacks vigor or needs nutriment, and new vigor can be 
imparted and iidditional nutriment bestowed, by whatever 



248 II03IE COMFORTS. 

gives activity to the circulation of the blood about the roots 
of the hair, and what the following aj)plication fails to do 
in this direction all others will, sinij)ly because it is the 
most certain, the most powerful and safe stimulant known: 
Half an ounce of vinegar of cantharidcs, one ounce of co- 
logne water, one ounce of rose water; to be rubbed in with 
a tooth-brush, gently and patiently, until the part is thor- 
oughly moistened and smarts a little. To be repeated night 
and morning; if too powerful, dilute with water or use less. 

Wash for Dandruff. — Take one pint of alcohol and a 
tablespoonful of castor oil, mix them together in a bottle 
by shaking them well a few minutes, then scent it with a 
few drops of oil of lavender. Alcohol dissolves castor oil, 
like gum-camphor, leaving the liquid or wash quite clear. 
It does not seem to dissolve any other unctuous oil so per- 
fectly, hence no other is equally good for this purjiose. 
Mr. John L. Davis, in the American Journal of Fliarmacy, 
recommends a preparation of one ounce flowers of sulphur 
and one quart of water as an effectual remedy for dandruff; 
The clear liquid is to be poured off, after the mixture has 
been repeatedly agitated during intervals of a few hours, 
and the head saturated with the liquid every morning. 

For Darkening the Hair. — Wash the head with spring 
water, and comb the hair in the sun, having dipped the 
comb in oil of tartar. Do this about three times a day, 
and in less than a fortnight the hair usually becomes quite 
black. The leaves of the wild vine, infused in water, are 
also said to render the hair black, and to prevent its falling 
off". Some persons use a metallic comb, which imjiarts a 
dark shade to the hair, and these are now generally kept 
by the perfumers. 

To Remove Superfluous Hair. — The following is said to be 
an effectual dejiilatory : Orpimcnt, one part ; find}' pow- 



SECBETS OF THE TOILET. 249 

dered quick-lime and starch, of each, eleven parts ; mix. 
It should be kept from the air. For use, make it into a, 
paste with a little warm water, and apply it to the part, 
previously shaved close. As soon as it has become thor- 
oughly dry, it may be washed off with a little warm water. 
This depilatory should be compounded by a druggist, and 
used with discretion, as orpiment is an arsenical preparation. 

In Circassia and neighboring countries the eyelashes of 
children are clipped with scissors, at their extreme points, 
while asleep, every six weeks, giving them in time a beau- 
tiful gloss and curve, besides adding to their length and 
thickness. 

How to Whiten tlie Hands and Beautify Nails. 

A well-formed hand, white and soft, with tapering 
fingers and polished nails, is a rare gift ; but where nature 
has denied these attractions, it is easy by proper attention 
to give at least softness and delicacy of appearance to the 
hand and improve the symmetry of the nails. It is well 
to wear kid or soft leather gloves at every opportunity, 
light being preferable, on account of the unctuous sub- 
stances with which they are prepared, although not so 
healthy, and the application of warm bran poultice to the 
hands once a week. They should be washed in tepid water, 
as cold water hardens and predisposes them to roughness 
and chaps, while water beyond a certain heat makes them 
shrivelled and w-rinkled. In drying them they ought to 
be rubbed with a moderately coarse towel, as friction always 
promotes a soft and polished ivory-appearing surface. The 
soaps to be preferred are such as are freest from alkaline 
impurities. 

The growth and preservation of the nails depend in a 
great measure on the treatment they receive. They ought 



250 HOME COMFOBTS. 

to be frequently cut in a circular form, and the whitened 
portion at the root, next the vessels winch supply the nail 
Avith nutriment for its growth and 2)reservation, should 
always be visible. When the nails are disposed to break, 
some simple pomade should be frequently ajjplied, and salt 
freely partaken of in the daily diet. 

For Chapped Hands. — A good recipe is: Almond oil, or 
sweet oil, three ounces ; spermaceti, four ounces ; pulverized 
camphor, one ounce ; dissolve in an earthen vessel by the 
aid of heat, and stir while it is cooling. Apply night and 
morning. 

Another good preparation for chapped hands, and which 
will preserve them smooth by constant use, is almond 

PASTE. 

Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog's lard, which 
has been washed in common water and then in rose water, 
with the yelks of two new-laid eggs and a large spoonful 
of honey. Add as much paste from almonds well pounded 
in a mortar as will work it into a paste. 

Perhaps no better ointment for beautifying the hands 
can be made than to take four parts, by weight, of the yelks 
of eggs and five parts of glycerine, rubbed together in a 
mortar. This compound may be preserved for years. 

For Warts. — Common ink will remove them if applied 
night and morning on their first appearance. When they 
have been clearly developed, a certain means of extirpating 
them is the following : 

Take a small piece of court-plaster made upon India 
rubber webbing, cut a hole in its centre, just sufficiently 
large to admit the head of the wart ; rub tlie head with 
lunar caustic night and morning, and wJien it becomes 
hard pick off the top and again apply the caustic. The 
use of the court-plaster is to prevent the surrounding skin 
from being injured. Or, 



SECEETS OF THE TOILET. 251 

Take oxymuriate of mercury, five grains ; lirae-water, 
one ounce. Mix, and apply with a camel's-hair brush two 
or three times a day. Be very careful in applying the solu- 
tion, as it will injure clothes. Wash the camel's-hair pen- 
cil whenever used. 

Care of the Eyes. 

The eye is the most striking, delicate and beautiful fea- 
ture of the human face, and no pains should be spared 
lor its preservation. To this end spectacles or eye-glasses 
should not generally be used until they are imperatively 
required. Green spectacles are even worse than plain ones. 
If the eye is weak, nine times out of ten, cold water 
is the best lotion. Strengthening lotions, when composed 
of spirits or acids, are stimulants ; such, of course, must 
occasionally be used, but judgment is required in using 
them, and an oculist's direction is generally required when 
these become necessary. Sometimes, when the eye is in- 
flamed, it will be relieved by a lotion made of one tea- 
spoonful of good brandy in a wineglassful of water; but as 
inflammation may arise from diiferent causes, sometimes 
requiring anodynes, sometimes stimulants, no general direc- 
tions of practical value can be given. 

If the eyes are inclined to be inflamed after being up 
late, an unguent, composed of one drachm citrine ointment 
and three drachms fresh lard, rubbed on both lids when 
retiring to rest, will generally, almost magically, relieve 
them. Nine times out of ten, supposed affections of the 
eye are only inflammations of the eyelid : in such cases this 
unguent will effect a cure. 

Haiv-potato poultice for inflamed eyes is one of the very 
best a})plications in recent cases. Slippery-elm poultices are 
good. In nearly all the celebrated eye preparations sold 
in the stores sulphate of zinc is an ingredient. 



252 HOME COMFOETS. 

Sometimes in travelling by rail, cinders from the locomo- 
tive get into the eye, causing great pain. These may be 
removed by introducing between the eyelid and the ball 
the bight of a horse or other strong hair, so as to include 
the spot where the particle appears to be, and gently draw 
out the hair ; the relief is said to be instantaneous and per- 
manent. 

For squinting, science has discovered an operation that 
will eflPectually cure it. This is not either painful or 
dangerous; but we strongly advise none to submit to it 
until they have arrived at the age of from nineteen to 
twenty-one, as, if it be done before, it is more than prob- 
able that the eye will be drawn the contrary way by the 
time they reach that age. A more simple remedy is to 
cover the stronger eye, which will compel the weaker one 
to exertion, and thus increase its power. Perseverance in 
this plan is generally successful. 

Women often injure the eye by Avearing a white veil. 
The glitter which this causes, and the constant exercise to 
which its continual shifting exposes the eye in following 
its movements, is often the occasion of great injury to the 
sight. Spotted veils are equally injurious. 

How to Preserve the Teeth Sound. 

No remarks need be made at this day on the value of 
sound teeth, or the beauty of clear, regular, and white teeth. 
To prevent teeth from decay, it is necessary to kee]) them 
clean ; to use the tooth-brush on the surface, and the 
tooth-pick to remove particles of food between the teeth. 
Dr. Lewis thinks no one need have decayed teeth, if he 
will observe the following rules : 

First. On rising from the table, use a goose-quill tooth- 
J)ick thoroughly, and rinse the mouth so as to remove such 



SECIiETS OF THE TOILET. 25a 

particles as the tooth-pick may have left behind. [Avoid 
metallic tooth-picks.] 

Second. On retiring at night, use a tooth-brush, broad, 
and soft, with pulverized soap and prepared chalk, with a 
little camphor and orris-root to give a pleasant flavor. 
Do the same on rising in the morning. 

Tliird. As often as you discover any tartar about the 
necks of your teeth, go to a dentist and have the tartar 
thoroughly removed — in fact, a dentist should be visited 
frequently, in order that the first appearance of decay ia 
the teeth may be discovered and removed. 

The followino- is an aromatic Tooth Powder that cannot 
possibly injure the teeth : 

Take finely-powdered prepared chalk, two drachms; 
pure starch, two drachms; myrrh, two drachms; ginger, 
half a drachm ; cuttle-fish bones, two drachms; flower of 
lavender and sugar at pleasure, and mix well together. 

The following is said to be an infallible cure for all 
kinds of toothache, unless the disease is connected with 
rheumatism. It is known as — 

Dr. Blahe^s Infallible Cure for Toothache. Take alum 
reduced to an impalpable powder, two drachms; nitrous 
spirits of ether, seven drachms. Mix and apply to the 
tooth. 

The following is a fomentation for the face, to assist in 
relieving Toothache : 

Take three poppy-heads and a handful of chamomile 

flowers, put them into a quart of soft water ; boil until the 

quart is reduced to a pint, then apply repeatedly to the 

face by means of flannel, and as hot as can be borne. 

Take care no draught of air gets to the face while under 

its operation. In addition, lave the feet in hot water 

before going to bed. 
21 ' 



254 HOME COMFOnTS. 

Toothache frequently arises from indigestion or a dis- 
ordered stomach ; and uhen this is the case, it can be 
cured by the judicious use of aperient and tonic medicines. 

Small pieces of cotton, soaked in a solution of half a 
teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda (baking soda) in half 
a tumbler of water, and applied to an aching toothy has 
frequently given instant relief. 

Ead Breath, 

One principal cause of an ofieiisive breath is the accu- 
mulation of tartar on the teeth ; the small particles of food 
not being removed, become decomposed and incorporated 
Avith the tartar and produce an abominable odor. A tem- 
])orary remedy may be found in the use of some strong 
mouth-wash ; but a cure can only be effected by having 
the tartar removed from the teeth, and those that are 
decayed filled or extracted. Dentists are the best mouth 
doctors. 

To prevent the superabundance of phosphate of lime in 
the saliva, which produces tartar, and to sweeten the breath : 
Take five to ten drops of hydrochloric acid in half a tum- 
bler of spring water, a little lemon juice and loaf sugar 
rubbed on lemon ]ieel, to flavor it to suit the palate. Take 
three times a day for a month or six weeks, and then 
occasionally. It is a pleasant refrigerant and tonic draught. 

As a toilet preparation for bad breath, })robably the 
best is the concentrated solution of the chloride of soda 
from six to ten drops in a wineglassful of water, and rins- 
ing the mouth with a teaspoonful of the solution in a 
tumbler of water. 

For breath tainted by onions, parsley leaves, eaten with 
vinegar or burnt coffee, are recommended. 



SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 255 

Care of the Feet. 

The importance of attention to tlie feet is shown in tlie 
fact, that many of our most serious ailments come through 
neglecting them. It is an axiom among horsemen, " no 
foot, no horse." And a man with sore or tender feet is 
physically of little account. 

To give the feet their just and proper attention, they 
should be soaked in warm water for at least twenty minutes, 
twice a week, and at the same time rubbed or scrubbed 
with a flesh-brush. Besides tins they should be di{)ped in 
cold water once a day, summer and winter, rubbing them 
vigorously while immersed ankle-deep, then wiped dry 
and warmed. When the feet are tender, they should be 
bathed every other day in a strong solution of alum and 
water, in which might be added an infusion of galls or 
of oak-bark, and then well rubbed and dried ; this will so 
strengthen them as to bid defiance to chilblains or sore feet 
from walking. It is also an excellent habit, during the 
season in which fires are kept burning, to hold the feet 
to the fire for a few minutes before retiring to bed, and 
rubbing them with the hands until thoroughly dry and 
warm. With attention of this kind, and care in the selec- 
tion of shoes, corns and callosities would cease to exist, 
coldness of feet would, to a considerable extent, be removed, 
and "taking cold " would not occur once where it now 
occurs a dozen times. ^ 

Persons who are liable to chilblains should be very par- 
ticular in thoroughly drying the hands and feet, and never 
go near a fire for some time after they come out of the ex- 
ternal air. They should use the alum wash above men- 
tioned, daily, and rub the feet and legs for ten or more 
minutes with a hair glove. If, in spite of these precau- 



256 HOME COMFOIiTS. 

tions, any symptoms of cliilblains appear, anointing the feet 
night and morning with an ointment composed of two ounces 
of opodchloc, and one ounce kuidanum, will ordinarily pre- 
vent their appearance. Ifj however, chilblains have ap- 
])eared, Sir Astley Cooper's Chilblain Liniment will gen- 
erally remove them ; viz. : 

Take liquor of sub-acetate of lead, one ounce ; camphorated 
spirits of wine, two ounces. Mix, and rub into the hands 
or feet two or three times a day ; oftener if convenient. 

To relieve feet itching from frost-bites, take hydrochloric 
acid, one ounce ; rain water, seven ounces. Wash the feet 
with it two or three times daily, or wet the socks with the 
preparation, until relieved. 

As a preventive against frosting the feet when they have 
become cold, warm them gradually ; and, as remedies, 
apply cabbage leaves, wrapped round the feet at night; 
bathing with oak-bark tea, alum water, or glycerine and 
rosewater, and rubbing with white-lead ointment. 

Those who suffer from cold feet, if the Avashing and 
rubbing recommended before do not prove effectual, are 
solicited to tr}- the experiment of wearing cotton socks next 
the skin, and woollen stockings outside of them. Those who 
have tried this plan state that it was successful in keejiing 
the feet warm and dry ; and that they found the cotton 
socks next the skin to be quite dry at night, Mhile the 
outside stockings were very damp. 

Cure for Ingrowing Toe Nails. 

A prompt and painless cure, it is said, may be effected 
by inserting the dry sesquichloride of iron between the nail 
and the protruding flesh, and ])owdering the latter with the 
same. Over all a large bandage should be a])plied. The 
exuberant flesh becomes hard as wood on the followinsr 



SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 257 

day ; siij)puration ceases, and a cure follows two or three 
applications. In four or five days the original pain ceases, 
the swelling subsides, and the patient can walk. Dr. 
Gaillet, of France, first published an account of this cure 
as tested by Dr. Wahn and himself. 

The Boston Medical and Surgical Journal publishes a 
comraunication from one who says he cured the worst case 
of ingrowing nail he ever saw — the patient being unable to 
put on a shoe for several months — by putting a very 
small piece of tallow in a spoon, heating it very hot and 
pouring it on the granulations. " The effect was almost 
magical. Pain and tenderness were all gone, the diseased 
parts dry and destitute of all feeling, and the edge of the 
nail exposed so as to admit of being pared away without 
any inconvenience. This application has been found 
effectual in many other cases, accomplishing in one minute, 
without pain, all that can be effected by the painful appli- 
cation of niti'ate of silver for several weeks." 

Ingrowing of the nail is often the result of improper 
cutting of the nail. Dr. Chavasse remarks: "There is, in 
this as in everything else, a right and a wrong way — the 
right way of cutting a toe-nail is to cut it straight, in a 
straight line. The wrong way is to cut the corners of the 
nail — to round the nail, as it is called. The latter may 
make work for the surgeon." Where there is a tendency 
towards ingrowing, the arch of the nail should be broken 
by curving the centre inwards and scraping the edge. 

Fetid Feet 

Are a sore trial to those who are afflicted with them. 
With some they are hereditary; an unpleasant peculiarity, 
if not disease, transmitted from one generation to another. 
"With others, this peculiar and fetid odor is sometimes in 



258 HOME COMFORTS. 

the armpits, and again in the feet, flitting between tlie two. 
In most instances, however, the odor is the result of 
neglect in personal cleanliness. There are persons who 
wear socks or stockings "without change from the time 
they are first put on until they are full of holes. Very 
many do not wash their feet oftener than once a month, 
only a few as often as once a week. The feet should be 
washed every night before going to bed, using the finger 
between each toe; and no stocking, boot or shoe should 
be put on the second time, until it has a whole day's 
sunning or drying — at least by those Avho have an ambition 
to be sweet and clean. 

As a remedy for those whose skin and feet are disposed 
to be odorous, we would recommend that they put into the 
wash water two tablespoonfuls of the compound spirit of 
ammonia (hartshorn); or if this does not answer in connec- 
tion with daily washings, a very etficient wash for the feet 
is found in red oxide of lead, one 'part to twenti/-nine parts 
of the liquor of the sub-acetate of lead ; the former to be bruised 
■in a porcelain mortar, r/raduedfy adding the Icdter ; appl}- a 
few drops, once a week, or oftener in summer. 

Corns and Bunions 
Are the most painful and troublesome excrescences that 
afflict the feet and torture humanity. They have their 
origin in either pressure from a tight shoe, or friction fi-oni 
a loose one ; and though there are many remedies which 
will disperse them, they can never be so effectual ly cured 
that a misfittino; boot or shoe will not cause them to 
return, because the structure of the skin about a corn is 
malformed for life, and would no more become natural 
than a finger would grow again if cut off. A man with 
consumption may get well ; hut he cannot be said to be 



SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 259 

perfectly cured, because he will always remain with a 
deficiency of lungs ; yet, by making the remainder of the 
lungs work more fully, he may have even better health 
than he ever had before. So with corns ; and as remedies 
are valuable for the multitude in proportion as they are 
safe, chea}) and attainable, we shall only give a few of the 
simple remedies that it is claimed will cure corns. 

Dr. Chase, of Michigan, says corns may be cured in ten 
minutes, by the following application : 

Take a small piece of potash, and let it stand in the 
open air until it slacks ; then thicken it to a paste with 
pulverized gum arable, which prevents it from spreading 
where it is not wanted. Pare off the seeds of the wart 
or dead skin of the corn, and apply the paste, and let it 
remain on ten minutes; wash off and soak the place in 
sharp vinegar or sweet-oil, either of which will neutralize 
the alkali. 

2. A man in Ohio offers to pay ten dollars apiece, for 
every corn not cured in three days, by binding a bit of 
cotton-batting upon it, and wetting this three times a day 
with spirits of turpentine. 

3. The following is said to be an infallible Corn Plaster : 
Take two ounces of gum ammoniac; two ounces of yellow 
wax ; six drachms of verdigris. Mix and spread the 
composition on a piece of linen or soft leather, first filing 
down the corn. Renew in a fortnight, if necessary. 

4. Another positive cure for corns is : Take the strongest 
acetic acid, and apply night and morning with a camel's-hair 
brush. In one week, it is said, the corn, whether soft or 
hard, will disappear. 

5. Another simple, available, and infallible cure is : First, 
to soak the feet in hot water for fifteen minutes, night and 
morning, for a week ; and after the soaking, rub a little 



2G0 HOME COMFORTS. 

sweet-oil on the corn, or any otlier mild form of greafe, 
with the finger for about five minutes. Then, cut a hole 
in one, two or tliree tiiicknesses of soft buckskin, and bind 
it on the toe, so tiiat the hole in the buckskin shall receive 
the corn. The object of the water and oil is to soften tlie 
corn and parts adjoining; and the use of the buckskin is 
to protect it from pressure. In a very short time the corn 
will be painless, and will subsequently fall out of itself, as 
it is a growth and is pushed upward and outward by tlie 
more natural growth beneath. It is tiirown out of tlie 
body by the action of the parts, as a sjilinter or a crushed 
bone, as being no longer a part of the body. If anything 
else is done to the corn, it shoiikl be simply picked out 
with the finger nail ; as cutting makes it take deeper root, 
and dangerous bleedinirs sometimes occur when the knife 
is used. 

Bunions may be checked in their early development, by 
binding the joint with an adhesive plaster, and keeping it 
on as long as any uneasiness is felt. An inflamed bunion 
should be poulticed, and larger shoes be worn. Iodine, 
twelve grains; lard or spermaceti ointment, lialf an ounce, 
makes a capital ointment for bunions. It should be rubbed 
on gently, twice or thrice a day. 

The 7'esohent plaster, usually known as the plaster of 
ammoniac and mercury, which can be obtained of any 
apothecary, is also of much benefit as an application to 
bunions. 

To Remove Eody Vermin. 

Many persons, even the most cleanly, are liable at times 
to be placed in situations where they cannot escape the 
various kinds of/vermin that infest the human body; and 
it is a very important item of practical information to know 
that an ai)plication of common sweet-oil will destroy body 



SECEETS OF THE TOILET. 261 

vermin. These insects breathe tlirough their sides, and as 
the oil pluo;s up the air conduits, a speedy and certain 
death from sutroeation is the consequence of its application. 

Sulphur baths are an efficacious remedy for pediculi ; 
one bath generally effecting an extinction of every one of 
them, even though they be all over the body. Dr. Cul- 
verwell says : Rubbing the ])arts affected well with a wash 
composed of half a drachm of calomel, and four ounces of 
lime-water, or even powdering with calomel, will also at 
once destroy these insects, and thereby remove the itching. 
The hair need not be removed, as the above remedies will 
be all-sufficient without its removal. 

In this connection it may be of benefit to young house- 
keepers to tell them how to drive away or 

Exterminate House Insects and Pests. 

Roaches devour greedily flour paste, and die Avhile eating 
it, if into half a pint of it, while hot, a dime's worth of 
Phosphorus is stirred with a stick. The Persian Insect 
Poivder will also destroy roaches, and borax scattered about 
the places they frequent will drive them away. 

House Flies may be banished from a room by hanging 
in it the common plantain, or " fleawort," dipped in milk, 
and may be destroyed by feeding them with ground black 
pepper and sugar, as much as will lie on a dime, moistened 
with two teaspoonfuls of cream or rich milk. They eat it, 
seek the air, and die out of doors. Farmers troubled with 
flies should plant before their doors the Chinese Linden, 
which seems to be an attractive poison for flies. Elder 
and walnut leaves, both in their natural state and as a decoc- 
tion, will prevent attacks of flies, both on animals and 
meat, and drive them away. Horses may be protected 
from flies by washing the sensitive parts with a decoction of 
walnut leaves. 



262 HOME COMFOETS. 

Bedbugs may be exterminated or kept away by many 
remedies, most of Avhich we suppose are effectual in con- 
nection with cleanliness. It is said they are effectually 
destroyed by wasliiug infected places with a decoction of 
common smart weed, or " water pep[)er," called by botanists 
'polygonum i^unctatum. Pour a jiint of boiling water on a 
pint of the weed, and let it cool. The liquor may be put 
on with a brush. The plant itself may be stuffed into 
cracks or corners. 

Another remedy, said to be effectual, is to take two 
ounces of quicksilver and the whites of two eggs, or more 
or less for a larger or smaller quantity. Beat the quick- 
silver and the whites together until they unite and become 
a froth. With a feather then apply this compound to the 
crevices and holes in your bedsteads, and if done once or 
twice a year, this will keep away bugs. 

Spirits of naphtha, also oil of turjjenfine, rubbed Avith a 
small painter's brush in every ])art of a bedstead, is said to 
be a certain way of getting rid of bugs. Campjhor is also 
objectionable to them. 

To destroy rats. Sir Plumphrey Davy recommends tlie 
following as an infallible, tasteless and odorless rat poison : 

" Mix carbonate of baryta two ounces, with grease one 
pound." 

It produces great thirst ; consequently water must be set 
by it, for death takes place immediately after drinking, 
not giving them time to go back to their holes. Should 
this be found as effectual as recommended, it will prove 
just the thing for rat killing, at they can be gathered up 
and carried away, thus avoiding the stench arising from 
their dead carcasses. Care must be taken that no other 
animal can get at it, 

A few grains of strychnine on a little fresh broiled meat, 



SECEETS OF' THE TOILET. 263 

or an ounce of jjliosphorus mixed in butter and flour, will 
kill rats. 

To drive them away alive, put Scotch snuff and pulver- 
ized Cayenne pepper or potash into their burro wing-holes. 
They will leave in disgust. Quick lime scattered over the 
bottom and sides of holes through which they pass, will 
also drive them away, as it eats off their skin and hair. To 
drive them away eifectually, the lime must be renewed 
every week or two. 

If some strong-scented cheese be mixed with an equal 
quantity of pulverized squills, and placed where rats and 
mice «an have access to it, they will devour it ravenously 
and soon disappear from the premises. 

Ants are averse to strong scents, and camphor, or a 
S])onge saturated with creosote, will prevent them infesting 
a cupboard. It is also said that a chalk-mark half an inch 
in depth around the upper edge of sugar-buckets or barrels 
will exclude every ant from the interior. The same mark 
drawn on the edges of shelves will also prevent the ap- 
proach of ants, as they are not able to crawl over the chalk. 
But if they are numerous among jam and jelly pots, take a 
large sponge, wet in cold water, squeeze it nearly dry, and 
then sprinkle fine white sugar over it. Place it on the in- 
fested shelf, and next morning dip it quickly and carefully 
into a bowl of boiling water. Red pepper dusted over 
their haunts will also destroy them, but the sponge is the 
surest method. 

Fkas may be banished from houses by the use of cam- 
pJior, and from animals by saturating strings with oil of 
])ennyroyal and tying them around the neck, renewing the 
a|)i)lication every week; or, where the herb grows, by 
making a decoction of it and throwing the dogs or cats into 
it once a week. The herb should be mown and scattered 
iu the beds of pigs once a mouth. 



2G4 HOME eOMFORTS. 

To get relief from Musqnitocs, the most efficacious way is 
to put up a musqnito-netting at the windows and around 
the beds ; and the next best tiling is to burn a small 
quantity of the Persian Insect Powder, which can be ob- 
tained of apothecaries generally. Take as much of the 
powder as can be heaped on an old-fashioned silver dollar, 
and place it on a plate at bedtime. Apply a lighted match 
to the top of the heap, and to aid the evolution of the 
fumes keep stirring it occasionally. The fumes will nar- 
cotize the musquitoes and keep them quiet several hours. 
The experiment may require repetition. The powder 
is said to be equally effectual with roaches, bedbugs, 
fleas, ants, etc. ; not exterminating, but stupeiying them. 
Its smell while burning is similar to that of a mild 
cigar. 

A smart eGit)r says that when musquitoes or other 
blood-suckers infest his sleeping-rooms at night, he uncorks 
a bottle of the oil of pennyroyal, and these insects leave in 
great haste, nor will they return so long as the air in the 
room is loaded with the fumes of the aromatic herb. If rats 
enter a cellar, a little powdered potash, thrown in the holes 
or mixed with meal and scattered in their runaways, never 
fluls to drive them away. Cayenne ])cp[)er will keep the 
buttery and store-room free from ants and cockroaches. 
If a mouse makes an entrance into any part of your 
dwellings, saturate a rag with Cayenne in solution, and 
stuff it into the hole, which can then be rejiaired with 
Avood or mortar. No rat or mouse will eat the rag for 
the ])urpose of opening communication with a depot of 
sui)plies. 

For Bites of Insects, apply spirits of hartshorn to them 
as soon as possible, and almost instantaneous and j>erma- 
nent relief will be given. The reason is, the poison of 



SECRETS OF THE TOILET. 2G5 

insects, spiders, reptiles, etc., is an acid ; the hartsliorn is 
an alkali, and neutralizes the poison. Another remedy is, 
throw a handful of wood-ashes into a teacup of hot water, 
stir, and as soon as settled apply the liquid — which is 
common lye used for making soap — with a soft rag. 

A medical writer observes : " Have we not, before now, 
looked with wonder on the old negro who ran out, when 
the wasp's sting made us 'holler,' caught up * three kinds' 
of weed, rubbed the part well, and in five minutes we were 
happy in complete relief? But M'hy 'three' kinds of 
Aveed? Why, in the first place, you know three, and all 
its multiples are mysterious numbers ; and then again, you 
can scarcely gather up three kinds of plants anywhere, one 
of which will not have more or less of alkali in iV 

[The two succeeding Chapters on Diseases have been read in proof 
and revised by six persons, including an eminent physician, and a first- 
class druggist.] 

22 




CHAPTER XIV. 

THE FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST 

"Physicians prescribe much, but use few medicines themselves. Let 
this hint suffice, by sliowing you that much is to be expected from simple 
remedies, discriminating judgment and the influence of the mind upon 
the corporeal body." — Dr. Raymond. 

'ICKNESS is one of the great wastes and burdens 
of society, which deprives it of the useful services of 
nearly one out of every five of its members. How to 
preserve health and cure sickness is therefore a ques- 
tion of great economic importance, which comes within the 
scope of a work on Thrift in Housekeeping, especially so 
far as those diseases are concerned which can be cured as 
readily without as with the aid of a physician. 

First, as to the management of a sick-room. Select for 
this apartment, says an anonymous but very sensible Avriter, 
the sunniest room in the house. There is life and healing 
in the solar ray, even if Its light, which is only a part of 
the ray, is excluded. We all feel instantly, on entering a 
room on which the sunlight never directly falls, a chill and 
an absence of something essential to cheer and brightness. 
Observation shows that in hospitals more patients die in 
shady than in the sunny wards, and in cities disease is 
more fatal on the shady side of the street than on its 
opposite. 

Next in importance to sunshine in the sick-room is ven- 



FAIIILY MEDICINE CHEST. 267 

tilation. If well people need fresh air, much more do they 
tliat are sick. A free circulation of air must be provided 
without endangering at all the safety of the patient. In 
cool weather an open stove (if possible, a soapstone stove), 
with a wood fire, is perhaps as effective and pleasant u 
method as any other of securing this. 

The aspect of the room should be inviting and pleasant. 
If the v.alls are bare, bring the pictures from that shut- 
up room, the parlor or the guest-chamber, and hang them 
where the patient can enjoy them. Set a rose or a gera- 
nium in the window. If plants were unhealthy, the air 
of greenhouses would be different from the outer air, which 
is not the case. 

\_Well-ah'ed bedding is essential to the comfort of the 
patient. This can be secured with a little management. 
The patient may be removed to an easy-chair or a lounge, 
and the bedding be thoroughly shaken out of doors, if the 
weather is fair, or in a room with the windows opened, 
if the weather is foul ; then warmed by the fire and put 
upon the bed. None but tlie sick are fully alive to the 
blessedness of clean sheets. How much of disease is only 
the choking in one form or another of the natural outlets 
of the body ! 

The comfort of the patient in many cases is greatly in- 
creased by washing. A cloth wrung from tepid saleratus 
or soda water may be passed over the body under the bed- 
clothes, and, if followed by a dry towel, there is little 
danger that the patient will take cold. 

If there must be light in the room all night, by all 
means use tapers. A box of these, costing ten cents, can 
be bought at the apothecary's, and will last many weeks. 
Each box contains a tiny socket or circle of tin with three 
sharp points, holding a bit of cork ; into this socket sets 



268 II03IE COMFORTS. 

a button-mould a quarter of an inch in diameter, with a 
liole in the middle, in which is inserted a bit of waxed wick- 
ing. The Mdiole affair, not larger in circumference than a 
walnut, floats on the surface of a cup or tumbler full of 
lard oil. It gives a very soft and pleasant light, and is 
perfectly safe. Kerosene lamps cannot be turned down 
without filling the room with unconsumed products of 
combustion, which are very unwholesome; candles and oil 
lamps are apt to smoke. The taper is economical, pleas- 
ant and safe. We have been thas circumstantial in de- 
scribing this little contrivance so that those at a distance 
from drug stores can make it for themselves. In the 
nursery it is invaluable. An outlay of 30 cents will keep 
a light in the sick-room for months. 

To purify the air in a sick-roora from noxious smells, 
especially of an animal character, put a few grains of coffee 
on a hot shovel, and roast thera in the room. In a moment 
you will smell nothing but the coffee.] 

Dr. Carmichael Smyth, of I^ondon, is said to have re- 
ceived $25,000 from the British Parliament, for making 
public the following recipe: 

To Prevent Infection in Typhus Fever. — Take nitre (salt- 
petre) pulverized, three-fourths of an ounce; oil of vitriol, 
three-fourths of an ounce ; put the nitre into a teacup and 
set it on a red-hot shovel, adding the vitriol, one-sixth at 
a time, stirring it with a pipe-stem, and taking care to 
avoid the fumes as they arise from the cup. 

Colds and Cough. 

The treatment of colds, as set forth in medical works, is 
radically different ; but all agree that a cold must be broken 
up within the first forty-eight hours, or it will run its 
course. The regulars recommend, that as soon as a person 



FA2nLr jLEDICINE chest. 269 

discovers he l.as taken cold, lie should shut himself up in 
a room of uniform temperature, drink warm drinks, bathe 
his feet in hot water, and take four compound cathartic 
pills at bed-time and a drachm of Epsom salts in the 
niorninjr. He should also leave off animal food for a few 
days; and if the chest be painful, apply a common pitch 
or porous plaster. 

Another school, of which Drs. Lewis and Hall are repre- 
sentative teachers, recommends, on the contrary, active 
exercise in the open air, sufficient to produce perspiration ; 
abstinence from food, or not to eat anything except a piece 
of dry bread for breakfast and dinner, and nothing for sup- 
per ; and liberal indulgence in cold water, drinking at least 
tAVO tumblers on going to bed and on rising in the morning. 
They believe that the old saw, "stuff a cold and starve a 
fever," has been a source of infinite mischief. As food 
makes blood and blood makes phlegm, the more food the 
more phlegm, which is often the cause of most harassing 
coughs. 

It is believed that a cold may be broken up almost in- 
fallibly, if the person, as soon as he discovers the premoni- 
tory symptoms, will abstain from food, for, say, thirty-six 
hours, go to bed in a warm room, wrap up well, and drink 
hot tea of any kind. 

How to Avoid Taking; Cold. 

o 
To avoid eatchmg cold, a good preventive is, to sponge 
the body every morning with cold water, on getting out 
of bed. The distinguished physician. Sir Astley Cooper, 
said : " The methods by which I have preserved my own 
health are temperance, early rising, and sponging the body 
every morning with cold water — a practice I have adopted 
for thirty years, without ever catching cold." 



270 HOME COMFORTS. 

Dr. Hill tliinks that the great majority of colds are 
taken " by cooling off too quickly after exercise." Persons 
exercise until a perspiration is produced, and then seek a 
cool seat or a pleasant breeze. The wisest and safest plan 
after exercise is to go into the house, shut the windows 
and doors, keep hat and coat on, and wait until there is 
not the slightest perspiration seen on the forehead or felt 
on it with the hand. 

If people who have been exposed to cold or wet through 
the day, would bathe their feet and hands in warm water 
at night, they would escape many colds and fatal diseases. 

For the cough attending a common cold, the following 
is said to be the best, safest and cheapest cough syrup jver 
made : 

Take one ounce of thoroughwort, one ounce of slippery 
elm, one ounce of stick licorice, and one ounce of flax- 
seed ; simmer together in one quart of water, until the 
strength is entirely extracted. Strain carefully, add one 
pint of best molasses and lialf a pound of loaf sugar; 
simmer them all well together, and, when cold, bottle 
tight. 

As a general rule, it is best not to stop a cough, especially 
in children. Dr. Chavasse remarks, "Any fool can stop a 
cough, but it requires a wise man to rectify the mischief. 
A cough is an effort of nature to bring uj) the phlegm which 
would otherwise accumulate, and in the end cause death. 
Again, therefore, let me urge upon you the immense im- 
portance of not stopping the cough of a child. Ipecacu- 
anha wine will, by loosening the phlegm, loosen the cough, 
which is the only right way to get rid of a cough. Thou- 
sands of children are annually destroyed by having their 
coughs stopped." 



FA3nLY MEDICINE CHEST. 271 

Asthma 

Is one of the diseases for which there are many remedies 
prescribed, though but few of them are effectual, except 
as palliatives. A quaint writer remarks, that for two 
dollars you can get in the drug-stores a box of stuff* that 
you can burn up in three nights, and very certainly relieve 
asthmatic paroxysms ; butan ounceof pulverized stramonium 
(Jamestown weed), with two drachms of powdered saltpetre, 
will do the same thing six times, and cost nine cents. 

Dr. Finley, of Pittsburgh, is accredited with having 
cured many cases of asthma ; and he has made public his 
prescription, Avhich is as follows : 

Oil of tar, one ounce ; tincture of veratrum viride, two 
drachms; simple syrup, two drachms: mix. Dose — for 
adults, fifteen drops three or four times daily. 

Iodide of potassium has cured asthma; and lobelia is 
considered by some a specific for this distressing complaint. 
Asthmatic persons should be very careful in their diet 
and regular in their habits. 

Agues. 

Dr. Chase, of Michigan, says he cured himself of ague, 
after having tried other remedies for three years ineffec- 
tually, by the following prescription : 

Quinine, twenty grains; Dover's powder, ten grains; 
sub-carbonate of iron, ten grains. Mix with mucilage of 
gum-arabic, and form into twenty pills. Dose — two each 
hour, commencing five hours before the chill should set in. 
Then take one, night and morning, until all are taken. 

In attacks of ague. It is best to take an active cathartic 
pill immediately after the first "fit," unless the bowels are 
lax, which is not generally the case. 



272 HOME CO?JFOnTS. 

An anonymous writer says, the following treatment has 
cured thousands of cases, and has never failed in a single 
instance, where directions have been strictly followed. 
" Take of calomel and jalap, each, ten grains, on going to 
bed. On rising in the morning, take one ounce of castor 
oil, previous to a light breakfast. If it is your 'shaking 
day/ do nothing further until the chill and subsequent fever 
have passed ; or, if a day of respite from the chill, take one 
of these powders every three hours : 

E. — Tannin and Snip. Qninine, aa gr. x. 
Piperine, gr. vj. 
Pulv. Eoot Licorice, gr. vij. 

Mix, and divide into five powders. If your residence is 
malarious, you may get an attack the next season ; but 
one course as above will cure again, as certain as the sun 
rises in the firmament." 

Another anonymous writer says he cured himself of the 
ague, by putting into his boots a half gill of hot Avhiskey 
and putting the boots instantly on. The very first day he 
tried it, the fever came as usual, but there icas no chill; the 
second day the symptoms were all modified ; and after the 
third application, there was no return of the fever or the 
ague. He says : "I well remember, when a boy, there being 
a tavern in our neighborhood where teamsters stopped to 
rest and water their horses, of seeing the carters, instead 
of drinking their half gill of whiskey, pouring it into their 
boots cold, as a protection against the frost. They told 
me there was nothing equal to it to warm the feet; that it 
was better than fire, for the feet remained warm for a long 
time and prevented sickness. It is also excellent for a 
cold, or when from ex])0sure the feet get wet or damp, and 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 273 

a cold or other disease may be apprehended. I have 
known it to act like a charm. 

" I would advise your readers who may be attacked by 
chills and fever to use no other remedy, and particularly 
to reject all drugs, especially quinine. The foregoing is as 
simple as can be, and as cheap as can be. Try it and 
believe." 

How to Prevent Fever and Ague. 

Dr. Hall says miasmatic effects can always be prevented 
in two ways ; hence, fever and ague and all classes of in- 
termittents are preventable, and could be swept from the 
world. The first precaution is, to eat a hearty meal before 
going out of doors in the morning in warm weather, and 
take supper before sundown. He says, when he began 
the practice of medicine, he travelled day and night, 
through broiling suns and drenching rains, over one of 
the most malarious districts in the Southern States, and 
was never sick for a single second ; but he never left the 
house, or went outside the door after daylight, until he 
had taken his breakfast. " While one class of persons 
died off like sheep, it was noticed that another class did 
not die at all. They lived and lived on indefinitely long 
and finally dried up. Some of them the author knew ; they 
were old thirty years ago, are apparently no older now — the 
French Creole planters ; they would have a cup of strong 
hot coffee brought to their bedsides every morning before 
they rose to dress." And the second precaution is, to have 
a lively fire kindled in the family room half an hour be- 
fore sunrise and sunset in warm weather, to burn for an 
hour or longer. This is a most important suggestion to 
people in many sections of the United States. 



274 HOME COMFORTS. 

Bleeding from tlie Nose 

Often occurs in young persons from ten to fifteen years of 
age ; and in cases where it is not excessive, is rather bene- 
ficial in relieving congestion and preventing headache. 

It often stops of itself; but sometimes it is troublesome 
to arrest, which should always be done where weakness 
would result from loss of blood. It may be stopped in 
many cases by applying cold water or ice to the forehead 
and nose, the back of the neck, and the roof of the mouth, 
or wet a plug of dry cotton in strong alum water or tincture 
of the chloride of iron diluted, and introduce it into the 
nostril. Bleeding from the arm will often arrest it ; or 
holding the hands above the head. When all these fail, 
the doctor should be called in. 

Bleeding at the Lungs 
Arises from different causes, and will usually require med- 
ical treatment. Take a tablespoonful of salt at intervals. 
If the spitting of blood lasts, take five grains of the sugar 
of lead and five of opium, every two hours as required. 
The diet should be light, and taken cool. 

Blood Purifiers and Tonics. 
Sarsaparilla root has long stood at the head of the list 
of articles used for spring medicines ; but its value has been 
much overrated. Sassafras bark, which is much used as 
a blood-purifier in the rural districts, is now rarely pre- 
scribed by the medical faculty, many of whom think food 
is the best spring medicine; and to purify the blood, recom- 
mend people to abstain from the fat meats and gravies and 
coarse foods of winter ; to use eggs, spinac h, and vinegar. 
Keep Lent, at least partially ; and wash the body daily. 



FAIIILY MEDICINE CHEST. 275 

If a bitter tonic is needed, half an ounce of ground 
quassia, an ounce of powdered gentian, with a drachm of 
golden-seal, steeped for several days in one pint of well- 
rectified whiskey, then strained and mixed with one gallon 
of clear water, will produce nine pints of " Tonic Sto- 
machic " as good as the very best on sale. This prepara- 
tion will cost but a few cents per quart, and is " war- 
ranted to keep in any climate." 

Bruises and "Black Eyes." 

The remedy for all bruises is a fomentation. This is 
best applied by wringing a piece of flannel out of hot 
■water and keeping it to the injured part as long as it re- 
mains warm and moist. This should be persevered in 
while the pain and swelling continue. 

The tincture of arnica is a favorite remedy for bruises ; 
but it does not deserve the high popular estimation it has 
acquired. It may be applied, however, without fear of 
any bad result. A black eye generally must be patiently 
endured while it passes through the various discolorations, 
though it may be partially concealed by wearing a shade, 
or touching the skin artistically with chalk and paint. A 
" black eye " may generally be prevented, if the part re- 
ceiving the blow or bruise be well buttered for an hour or 
two with fresh butter. 

For the very severe kind of bruise caused by jamming 
the finger in a closing door or drawer, the quickest relief 
is obtained by plunging the finger into water as hot as it 
will bear. This will soften the nail, and cause it to yield 
and give room to the blood, the painful pressure of which 
will thus be relieved. After giving the finger a thorough 
soaking in hot water, you should wrap it up in a thick 
poultice of bread and water or milk. On the next day 



276 H03£E COMFOETS. 

after, if the pain is troublesome, it is a good thing to scrape 
the nail, -with a knife, so thin that it may readily yield to 
the pressure of blood or matter which frequently forms 
below. If this does not produce the desired relief, it will 
be well to make an opening into the scraped nail and le; 
out the fluid beneath. The same remedy may be applied 
to a bruised toe as to a finger. 

Chilblains and Frosted Feet. 

Take a half pound of alum in a gallon of warm MT.tor ; 
immerse the feet in this alum water, and let them reniaiu 
ten or fifteen minutes ; repeat until relief is obtained, and 
this will prove an effectual cure. Also, it is said that two 
white turnips, cut into thin slices without paring, mixed 
with three large tablesjioonfuls of the best lard, simmered 
slowly for two hours, and mashed through a sieve, and ap- 
plied to a chilblain at night on a soft linen cloth, will cure 
the most inveterate chilblain or frosted feet. 

Diarrhoea— Eints for Travellers. 

During the summer, persons travelling are liable to 
derangements of the bowels ; and some one recommends 
as a safe remedy for diarrhoea, to stir a little wheat flour 
in a glass of water until it is of the consistency of thick 
cream ; drink it down, and repeat it several times in the 
course of the day, if needed. Meanwhile, eat nothing, 
drink nothing, and lie down if practicable. The flour may 
act mechanically, not medicinally, by plugging up the 
relaxed mouths through which the watery particles are 
poured into the intestinal canal. Diarrhoeas are often 
the result of the greater coolness of morning and evening 
over midday, and the injurious effects of bad air on an 
empty stomach ; hence, one of the most important rules 



FAIIILY MEDICINE CHEST. 277 

for travellers, in all seasons, climates, and countries, is, 
Never fail to hreahfast before you ride. 

Another authority on the subject claims that the follow- 
ing will always cure diarrhoea : 

Procure "brandy coloring" from a rectifying liquor 
dealer, or make it by placing an ounce or two of good 
brown sugar in a pan or skillet; drop upon it just suffi- 
cient water to dampen the sugar ; place the vessel over a 
quick fire ; stir until the mass emits a thick, black smoke, 
but do not burn it crisp. Pour on half a pint of boiling 
water and stir till all is dissolved. Dose — a wineglassful 
every hour until relieved ; after wliich eat an ounce or two 
of very tender beefsteak slightly broiled, dusted sparingly 
with pure black pepper. The regulars generally prescribe 
for diarrhoea, small doses of calomel. 

How to Escape Cholera, 
The premonitory symptom of an attack of cholera is 
looseness of the bowels ; hence, when cholera is epidemic 
in a district, every one should watch carefully the action 
of his bowels ; and whenever they are moved over once in 
twenty-four hours, recourse should be had to the proper 
remedies for checking diarrhoea. The body should be kept 
quiet; all drinks should be avoided, and the food should 
consist principally of common rice, parched brown and then 
boiled, and eaten with salt and butter. A tight compress 
should be bound around the abdomen ; and the best mate- 
rial for a bandage for this purpose is a strip of stout flannel 
about a foot broad, and sufficiently long to double in front, 
but to be of but one thickness behind. Tape-strings should 
be attached to the outer end, and also to another part of 
the piece, a few inches beyond the lapping point, so as to 
make the flannel conveniently tight, and also aid in keep- 
23 



278 H03IE COMFOETS. 

ing it in place. When the cliolera was prevailing in Eu- 
rope, and broke out so suddenly among the Prussian sol- 
diers that it was impossible to procure medical attendance 
for any considerable number, an order was issued that 
every soldier, sick or well, should instantly wear a flannel 
bandage around the stomach ; and the disease disappeared 
in a few days. 

Dysentery. 

Sir Charles Locock, one of the Queen of England's phy- 
sicians, says, " that in severe dysentery, especially where 
there is sickness, there is no remedy equal to pure calomel, 
in full dose," and recommends at the very outset of the dis- 
ease to give from three to five grains (according to the ago 
of the patient) of calomel, mixed with an equal quantity of 
powdered white sugar, and put dry on the tongue. In three 
hours after, let the following mixture be administered: 

Take of compound ipecacuanha powder, five grains; 
ipecacuanha wine, half a drachm ; simple syrup, three 
drachms; cinnamon water, nine drachms: to make a mix- 
ture. A teaspoon ful every three or four hours, first well 
shaking the bottle. 

Dr. Baily, who made this disease his particular study, 
recommends in cases where dysentery has continued for 
several days, a combination of castor-oil and opium — as for 
instance: Take of mixture of acacia, three drachms; sim- 
ple syrup, three drachms; tincture of opium, ten drops 
(not minims); castor-oil, two drachms; cinnamon water, 
four drachms. Mix, and take a teaspoonful every fonr 
hours, first well shaking the bottle. A warm bath, at the 
commencement of the disease, is very efficacious ; and a 
flannel bag, filled with hot table-salt, made hot in the 
oven, and applied to the bowels, will afford nuich comfort. 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 279 

An American physician says raw minced beef, adminis- 
tered as the almost sole article of food, at the usual inter- 
vals of eating, and in quantities as great as the patient can 
comfortably swallow, seems to have an admirable effect in 
mastering this disease; and even in consumption some 
physicians are prescribing it, and with this agreeable cir- 
cumstance, that although it is so repellent to our tastes at 
first thought, to be eating raw, bloody meat, yet the stomach 
soon becomes reconciled to it, and even to crave it. In 
the case of one of the members of the cabinet recently 
deceased, who had been using it in the hope of its benefit- 
ing a disease of the lungs, there seemed to be such a liking 
for it, that when the last meal was brought to his bedside, 
his eye brightened and he exclaimed, "Ah ! that is a dish 
good enough for a king." 

When raw beef is administered for dysentery, indicated 
by bloody discharges and a most distressing and ineffectual 
"bearing down," it should be minced very fine, and given 
every four hours, a tablespoonful at a time, eating nothing 
else in the meanwhile. 

Dyspepsia or Indigestion 
Is the great national disease of America. Bad cookery 
and eating too fast without proper mastication, and eating 
too much, have ruined thousands of stomachs. 

We doubt whether there is any remedy in medicine, for 
confirmed dyspepsia. Medicine, says Dr. Hill, cannot 
make gastric juice, which is one of the essential requisites 
of a healthy digestion. " It is a liquid prepared as a con- 
sequence of the need of repair ; this need of replenishment 
and repair is occasioned by a previous waste or wear ; that 
waste or wear cannot be brought about without motion of 
the muscles, which is expressed by the word exercise ; it is 



280 HOME COMFOBTS. 

musGidar exercise which creates gasti'ic juice." Hence, the 
first essential element in the cure of dyspepsia is exercise, 
more particularly out-of-door exercise. 

Some years ago, a physician in New York attained so 
great a reputation for curing dyspepsia, that he was able 
to charge a fee of five hundred dollars for each case he 
undertook, payable in advance. His patients were bound 
by solemn oaths not to reveal the method of treatment ; 
but after his death, some of them considered themselves 
absolved from their obligation, and revealed the secret, 
which consisted mainly in slapping the stomach or boicels 
with the palms of the hands for five or ten minutes on rising 
in the morning, a quarter of an hour or more about eleven 
o'clock, and in the evening before going to bed. Dr. Lewis 
calls this excellent treatment, and says he cannot conceive 
of a case of chronic indigestion which such manipulation 
would not relieve. Rubbing and kneading for chronic 
maladies is no new thing. For hundreds of years a class 
of women, known as " rubbers," liave figured conspicuously 
in England and Mexico; and the authority just quoted 
says, " the most remarkable cures ever achieved among us 
have been the work of the rubbers." 

In addition to slapping and kneading the stomach, and 
exercising freely out of doors, a dyspeptic should eat only 
when he is hungry, select digestible food, and chew it well. 
Voltaire claims that he cured himself of dyspepsia by 
living for nearly a year on the yelk of eggs, beaten up 
with flour of potatoes and water. The mode of prepara- 
tion, as recommended by Sir John Sinclair, is as follows : 
Beat up an egg in a bowl ; then add six tablespoonfuls of 
cold water; mix the whole together; then add two table- 
spoonfuls of the farina of potatoes, to be mixed thoroughly 
with the liquor in the bowl. Then pour in as much 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 281 

boiling water as will convert tlie whole into a jelly, antl 
mix it well. It may be taken either alone or with a little 
milk and sngar not only for breakfast, but in cases of 
great stomach debility, or in consumptive disorders, at 
other meals. The dish is light, easily digested, extremely 
wholesome and nourishing. Bread or biscuit may be 
taken with it as the stomach gets strono-er. 

On the other hand, Mrs. Swisshelm announces that she 
was cured of a very bad case of dyspepsia, by the hard 
bread and beer, prescribed by a German ])hysician. She 
says : " Some years after, when Pennsylvania doctors sent 
me back to Minnesota to die among my kindred, a German 
physician was called in ; but heart and stomach were on a 
strike, and refused to assimilate food. In great perplexity 
he said: 'Can you take peer?' I could try, and he went 
on to prescribe : ' You get de Gheneral to get you some coot 
peer, fresh from the prewery. Dake von leetle half a glass, 
mit a pit of hart pread and leetle pit uv cheese. Chew de 
pread schlow, and sip de peer. Do not culp it like some 
beebles do ; schust sip schlow, and eat de pread and cheese 
mit it. I dinks maype dat set de stoomach do vork vonce 
more ! ' 

"His prescription worked like a charm, and in any fit 
of dyspepsia now, I go back to the hard bread and beer." 

For indigestion produced by over-indulgence in an extra 
rich meal, immediate and generally perfect relief may be 
obtained by taking a cup of Thomson's Composition 
powders, which are made as follows : 

Bay berry bark, two pounds ; ginger root, one pound ; 
cayenne pepper, two ounces ; cloves, two ounces — all finely 
l)ulverized and well mixed. Take one-half of a teaspoon- 
ful of this, and a spoonful of sugar; put them into a tea- 
cup and pour it half full of boiling water; let it stand a 



282 BO ME COMFORTS. 

few minutes, and fill the cup with milk or hot water, 
and drink. 

This will stimulate the stomach to action, promote diges- 
tion, prevent the accumulation of gas which causes belch- 
ing, and give tone to the whole system. 

This dyspeptic tea or Composition powder may also be 
made a cure for drunhenness. Whenever the craving for 
liquor is felt, take a cup of this tea, which will give 
warmth and tone to the stomach ; and, by avoiding ])laces 
where intoxicating spirits are ke})t or sold, the desire for 
them will gradually pass away, and the whole system be 
restored to manly vigor. 

Earache and Deafness. 

Earache is often an extremely painful affection ; and, 
when severe, a physician should be called in, as the in- 
flammation may affect the brain. First, an examination 
should be made, to see whether an insect or any foreign 
body has been introduced into the ear; and if not, ap- 
ply a neuralgia plaster behind the ear, and pour into 
the ear two or three drops of laudanum, with a little 
sweet-oil, or a few drops of glycerine. A teaspoonful of 
warm melted butter, dropped into the ear, is a favorite 
remedy for earache with a noted Philadelphia physician. 

Glycerine is the best remedy for all cases of earache or deaf- 
ness originating in concrete wax. It is perfectly safe, and as 
mild as milk and w'ater ; while it retains its moisture longer 
than any other substance yet discovered ; hence, if hard- 
ened wax causes the deafness, it will certainly be softened 
and brought away. Auricles, or other aids to hearing, 
improve for a time, but only to bring ultimate deafness 
the sooner, and more certainly, as well as more completely. 
In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred of deafness, in the 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 2S3 

ordinary walks of life, all tampering with the ear is per- 
nicious; and quite as often it will be found that wiiatever 
general good health, and the constant (once daily) moisten- 
ing with pure glycerine does not accomplish in the way of 
an improved hearing, nothing else will. 

Erysipelas 
Is a blood poison, originating in causes not very well un- 
derstood by physicians ; though cold, mental anxiety and 
constipation are supposed to be the principal causes, while 
by some it is regarded as a contagious disease. 

A poultice of cranberries, pounded when raw, affords a 
soothing and pleasant relief in erysipelas, and sometimes 
arrests its progress; while the repeated application of 
oxide of zinc ointment, which is preferable to the white- 
lead coating recommended by some physicians, relieves 
irritation by excluding the air from the parts affected. 

Physicians in Philadelphia, however, mainly rely upon 
a remedy discovered by one of their number, Dr. Andrew 
Nebinger, which by some is regarded as a specific in ery- 
sipelas. It is used both internally and externally. The 
recipe, when anglicized, is as follows : 

Bisulphite of sodium 2 drachms. 

Syrup 2 ounces. 

Water 2 ounces. 

Mix — Take a tablespoonful every two hours. For ex- 
ternal application, use bisulphite of sodium, one ounce, in 
eight ounces of water. 

In case the bisulphite of sodium does not agree with the 
stomach, take, as the next best remedy, twenty drops of 
tincture of iron, evory hour, in water. 



284 HOME COMFOETS. 

Fainting. 

When a person faints, that is, becomes unconscious, with 
paleness, coldness, cessation of the pulse and breathing, he 
or she should be laid down at once, with the head lower 
than the body. The upright position might endanger life ; 
as in fainting the heart fails to send fresh blood to the 
brain, and its flow must be favored by the recumbent 
posture. 

In fainting there must be plenty of air, and avoidance 
of crowding; open the windows, unloose the patient's cloth- 
ing and neck-tie, and apply hartshorn or sal volatile near 
to the nostrils at intervals. 

When unconsciousness arises from apoplexy, or liquor, 
the head is warm or hot, the cheek flushed, the pulse full, 
and the breathing loud. In such cases the body should 
be laid down, having the head and shoulders elevated. 

PelODS. 

Venice turpentine, one ounce ; put into it half a tea- 
spoonful of water, and stir with a rough stick until the 
mass looks like candied honey ; then spread a good coat 
of the mixture on a cloth and wrap around the finger. If 
the case is only recent, this will remove the pain in 
six hours. 

A poultice of fresh poke-root on a felon cures by ab- 
sorption, unless matter is already formed ; if it is, this soon 
brings it to a head, and saves much pain and suffering. 

Lobelia is preferred, by many physicians, to either of 
the above ; and by some is regarded as a " sure cure " 
of a felon. 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 285 

Heaclache 

Arises from snch a variety of causes, that no one remedy 
will meet all its varying phases. In delicate females, it is 
often purely sympathetic ; but the principal and general 
cause of headache is some derangement of the stom.ach 
or indigestion. 

For Sick Headache arising from this cause, take a glass 
of warm water, into which has been rapidly stirred a heap- 
ing teaspoonful of salt and kitchen mustard; and this, 
by causing instantaneous vomiting, will empty the stomach 
of the bile or undigested sour food, and a grateful relief 
is often experienced on the spot; then rest, with a few 
hours of sound, refreshing sleep, completes the cure, 
especially if the principal part of the next day is spent in 
mental diversion and out-door activities, not eating an 
atom of food (but drinking freely of water or hot teas), 
until you feel as if a piece of plain, cold bread and butter 
would "taste really good." 

Two teaspoonfuls of pulverized charcoal, stirred in half 
a glass of water, and drunk, generally give instant relief, 
especially when the headache arises from superabundance 
of acid in the stomach. 

In nervous headaches, the elixir of valerianate of am- 
monia is generally prescribed ; and a new remedy, called 
Gunrana, is growing in favor. 

For Biliousness or Bilious Headache, Dr. Lewis recoin- 
monds the patient, on getting up and on going to bed, to 
drink plenty of cold water, to eat for breakfast a little stale 
bread and a piece half as large as your hand of boiled beef 
or mutton, for dinner about the same thing ; to go without 
supper ; and exercise freely, so as to produce perspiration. 
In a few days the biliousness will all be gone. A speedier 



286 HOME COMFORTS. 

remedy is a close or two of anti-bilious or IMandrake Pills, 
when the first symptoms of bilious headache appear. 

Heartburn or Waterbrash 

May be relieved by taking twenty drops of lemon juice at 
the close of each meal, and by abstaining from drinks or 
fluids at meal-time. Any alkali, as bicarbonate of soda, 
will relieve; but Dr. Lewis says he has been in the habit 
of advising his patients who are temporarily afllicted with 
heartburn, to chcic spruce gum and swallow all the saliva. 
This affords a grateful relief, and is not liable to the 
objections which may be urged against soda, saleratus, and 
other strong alkalies. 

An agreeable effervescent drink for heartburn, which is 
highly recommended, is, to mix the juice of one orange, 
water and a lum]) of sugar in proportion to the acidity of 
the orange, together, and then add about half a teasjwonful 
of bicarbonate of soda ; stir, and effervescing will ensue. 

Hysterical Fits and Nervousness 

Are very alarming to those who witness them for the first 
time. Women of all ages are liable to this complaint, as it 
generally arises from some irregularity in the functions of 
the parts peculiar to women ; and it is very frequent with 
girls during the first few months of puberty, and with 
women when they have reached the " change of life." 

A sensible writer recommends cold bathing, open-air 
exercise, strengthening diet, cheerful surroundings, with 
the removal of all care and per})lexities ; attention to a 
jjroper regularity of the bowels ; frequent change of air 
and scene — are positively required. All irhsoyne family 
requirements should be suspended. Iron pills may be 
taken two at a dose, night and morning ; and a bitter 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 287 

tonic (quassia, gentian, etc.), in half wineglass doses, two 
hours before dinner and supper. At the proper season, 
sea-bathing will prove beneficial. Kindness from family 
and friends is imperatively required. Hysterical women 
should not nurse infants. Snuff, opium and camphor are 
not recommended. Strong tansy tea, taken cold and in 
small quantities, will be found serviceable. A long narrow 
strip of strengthening-plaster, worn the entire length of 
the spine during cold weather, will do good. This may be 
made by mixing by heat, dark resin with half its propor- 
tion of beeswax, adding a few drops of olive oil. 

As a relief for nervousness, the following recipe has 
proved of great benefit to many : 

Ammoniated tincture of valerian 1 drachm. 

Compound tincture of bark 1 do. 

Compound tincture of aloes 10 drops. 

Camphor mixture li ounces. 

Mix, and take from twenty to thirty drops three or four 
times a day. 

Neuralgia. 

A remedy, which is sometimes successful in instanta- 
neously allaying neuralgic pains, is found in mixing equal 
parts of sweet oil, spirits of hartshorn, and chloroform ; 
siiake well, and before time is allowed for the particles to 
separate, wet a bit of rag or lint, place it on the painful 
spot for about a minute, or less if relieved sooner; but 
hold a handkerchief on the lint, so as to confine the volatile 
ingredients ; if kept on too long, the skin may be taken off. 

The application of bruised horseradish to the wrist, on 
the side of the body suffering from pain, is a remedy, 
recently discovered, for the cure of " Nerve Ache." or 
neuralo-ia. 



288 HOME COMFOETS. 

Pleurisy, 
Which is an inflammation of" the serous membrane en- 
veloping the lungs, is a very painful affection, and usually 
requires the services of* a physician. In nine cases out of 
ten, however, it is believed, the disease may be arrested, 
if the patient, at the beginning of the attack, take an 
alcohol or vapor bath until perspiration freely ensues, 
drinking freely of a strong tea made of pleurisy-root and 
catnip, and keeping well covered in bed. Turpentine may 
be ap}>lied over the seat of the ]iain and mustard upon the 
feet; and rul)bing the arms and legs with dry flannel tends 
to moderate the sevei'ity of the attack. Call in a doctor, 
if relief is not obtained in a few hours. 

Liver Complaint, 

Or inflammation of the liver, also requires the services of 
a physician ; but in its first or acute stage, the sweating 
process recommended in pleurisy will be beneficial, espe- 
cially in combination with the use of Mandrake Pills. 

Piles, or Hemorrhoids, 
Are painful swellings at the lower extremity of the in- 
testines, and are both internal and external. The internal 
are the most painful. The external vary in size and the 
pain often ceases when they break and discharge blood, 
but the swelling partially remains and they are soon as 
large as before. In cases of piles it is important to avoid 
strong and stimulating food, to take regular daily exercise, 
and to guard against costiveness. 

The most successful treatment, judging from the certifi- 
cates of cures which have been made, is the introduction 
into the rectum of an ointment com2)osed of some astrin- 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 28£ 

gent aiul oil or grease, as, for instance, two drachms of 
powdered gall nuts and an ounce of lard, or the extract 
of white oak bark and bacon oil, or powdered opiuni, 
rosin, and tallow, each one ounce, or equal weights of 
glycerine and tannin. All of these ointments, it is claimed, 
have cured piles. 

Dr. Harriman, of Indiana, it is reported, has been very- 
successful in curing piles with an ointment made of the 
extract of white oak bark, half a pint, and oil of old and 
strong bacon, half a pint, simmered together until an 
union takes place when cold. Apply every night until 
well. 

For use internally, take a tablespoonful of sulphur in half 
a pint of milk every day. This of itself has been used 
with complete success by individuals who had spent scores 
of dollars in medical advice. 

When the intestine falls down after evacuation, restore it 
by pressing gently with the finger, and use some astringent 
as a lotion to prevent its return. 

Cold cream, or even fresh lard or tallow may often, if 
applied in time, be preventive of erysipelas and piles, the 
one a complaint dangerous to life, and the other painful and 
troublesome. For instance, if one feels a peculiar tender- 
ness and soreness on the face about the eyebrow, which on 
examination shows a line of redness, the application of 
cold cream at once may ward off an attack of spreading 
erysipelas. Or, should the lower bowel feel ill at ease, 
and at the same time pain and soreness at its extremity, in 
going to stool, the free application of cold cream or lard 
three times a day may arrest the inflammation and prevent 
the formation of piles. 
24 



290 HOME COMFORTS. 

Quinsy, How to Prevent. 
.Quinsy is an inflammation of the fauces or tonsils of the 
throat, attended by a painful and impeded deglutition, 
sometimes causing death by suffocation. When allowed 
to progress beyond a certain point very little can be done 
in tiiis disease except to hasten suppuration. But if the 
patient applies in time to a physician possessing the 
requisite knowledge, there is seldom occasion for any one 
to have an attack of quinsy. Medical science has achieved 
one of its greatest triumphs in discovering a means of 
arresting the progress of this painful disorder. The editor 
of this work has been subject to occasional attacks of 
quinsy, but recently he had the good fortune to consult 
Dr. James Simpson, of Philadelphia, who dissipated a 
threatened attack by the following treatment : 

Mix — Tincture of iron i ounce. 

Sulphate of quinine 24 grains. 

Chlorate of potash 2 drachms. 

Glycerine 2^ ounces. 

Syrup i ounce. 

Take two teaspoonfuls every two hours in a wineglass 
of water. The peculiarity of this prescription is, that the 
chlorate of potash is not dissolved. 

As a gargle, dissolve an ounce of chlorate of j)otash in a 
pint of water, and for external application use the follow- 
ing liniment : 

Oil of amber (rectified) i ounce. 

Oil of turpentine 2 ounces. 

Camphora 3 drachms. 

Castor oil 2 drachms. 

To be rubbed well and frequently over the throat. 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 291 

This treatment, the doctor referred to, has found in an 
extensive practice to be ahnost a specific, not only for in- 
cipient attacks of quinsy, but for most inflammatory diseases 
of the throat, including even diphtheria. 

Eheumatism. 

Rheumatism is of two kinds, acute and chronic, and the 
former is divided into inflammatory and articular. All gen- 
uine rheumatism is a blood poison, originating, it is sup- 
posed, in excess of uric acid, and though not often fatal, is a 
serious disease requiring the services of a skilful physician 
to eliminate it from the system. The regulars generally 
prescribe alkalies, especially potash, in large doses to 
neutralize the acid, and do not believe much in liniments 
or external applications. 

Chronic rheumatism, of two years' duration, has been 
cured, it is said, in twenty-four hours by mixing equal 
parts of alcohol, spirits of turpentine, sweet spirits of nitre, 
and oil of juniper, and rubbing this well into the parts 
aifected; also taking internally ten drops in water at bed- 
time. 

Many of the pains in the muscles and joints, which 
readily yield to liniments and rubbing, though called 
rheumatism, are not genuine rheumatism. 

For mercurial rheumatism the following is recommended : 

With four ounces of good oatmeal make three quarts 
of well-boiled gruel. In this dissolve four drachms of the 
nitrate of potassium. Stir well, and take of the mixture half 
a pint every two hours until all is consumed. Meantime 
bind a cloth steeped in turpentine one part, proof whiskey 
ten parts, to the region of the pain. Cover up quite 
warmly. If necessary, repeat the gruel remedy. In the 
interim take two " compound cathartic pills " every other 
night. 



292 JI03[E COMFORTS. 

Sore Throat. 

Batlie the throat externally with the liniment recom- 
mended in quinsy sore throat; gargle with alum water 
or alum in sage tea, and drink often and freely of flax- 
seed tea. A large draught of the latter may be made more 
agreeable ;y the addition of lemon juice and sugar, and 
may be taken at bed-time after a warm mustard foot bath. 

Flaxsei 1 tea should be made by pouring a pint of boil- 
ing water on one or two tablespoonfuls of whole flaxseed 
and stirring it up for a few minutes. The flaxseed should 
not be boiled, as that would bring out the oil, which is too 
heavy for the stomach. It is only the mucilage from the 
outside of the seeds that is useful. 

Chlorate of potash, an ounce, in a pint of hot water, 
makes a very good gargle for a simple or ulcerated 
sore throat. It is nearly tasteless, and being not at all 
offensive to take, is well adapted for children. But for 
those who prefer something not so simple the following is 
recommended : 

Take of very strong sage tea, half a pint ; strained honey, 
common salt, and strong vinegar, of each two tablespoon- 
fuls ; one teaspoonful of pulverized cayenne pepper ; steep- 
ing the cayenne with the sage, strain, mix, and bottle for 
use, gargling from four to a dozen times daily, according 
to the severity of the case. This is no doubt one of the 
very best gargles in use. 

To smoke dried mullein leaves in an ordinary but new 
clay pipe has been found very beneficial where there is a 
tickling in the throat, or hacking cough, or other irritation. 
It is recommended by the Eclectic Medical Journal. 

General Washington's remedy for sore throat and which 
others have found quite effectual in this disease, especially 
when accompanied by hoarseness, was — onions boiled in 
molasses. 



FAJIILY I'lEDICINE CHEST. 293 

Scrofula and Old Soresi 

Nicholas Longwortli, the Cincinnati millionnaire, used to 
say that he had done wonders in curing scrofula, and old 
sores, with the following recipe: 

Pnt one ounce of aquafortis in a bowl, or saucer; drop 
into it two copper cents — it will cifervesce — leave the cents 
in ; when the effervescence ceases, add two ounces of strong 
vineti;ar. The fluid will he of a dark-y;reen color. It 
should and will smart. If too severe, put in a little rain- 
water. Apply it to the sore, morning and evening, with a 
soft brush or a rag. Before applying it, wash the sore well 
with water. 

Small-Pox, or Variola. 

This is one of the terrible scourges of humanity, baffling 
often the best medical skill, and we would not allude to it 
except to show how pitting may be prevented, a matter 
that physicians overlook or regard as of secondary im- 
portance. We may state, however, that the mode of treat- 
ment prescribed for the English army in China, by general 
orders, is, just before the eruption appears the chest should 
be thoroughly rubbed Mith croton oil and tartar emetic 
ointment. This causes the whole of the eruption to appear 
on that part of the body to the relief of the rest, and 
prevents the disease from attacking the internal organs.* 

*A Californian professes to have talis being a poison, non-profes- 

discovered, in sulphate of zinc and sional readers sliould not experi- 

digitalis, a speedy remedy for small- nient with it. He says: "It is as 

pox. But as his announcement, unfailing as fate, and conquers in 

though couched in the strongest every instance. It is harmless when 

language, has not attracted the at- taken by a well person. It will also 

tention of the medical faculty, there cure scarlet fever. Here is the 

is probably nothing in it ; and digi- recipe as I have used it, and cured 



291 HOIfE COMFOETS. 

But to guard against small-pox, the main reliance is 
upon vaccination in infancy and re-vaccination every seven 
years. Dr. Getchell, of tlie Jefferson INIedical College, says, 
"Small-pox is a disgrace to any civilized land. My firm 
belief is, that if every person were, every seven years, duly 
and projKi'iy vaccinated, small-pox might be utterly exter- 
minated. Even vaccination, however, is no certain pre- 
ventive, unless the system is saturated with the vaccine 
virus, until it refuses, after repeated experiments, to absorb 
any more. 

To Prevent Pitting in Small-Pox. 

There seem to be so many remedies that will prevent 
pitting in this disease, that its fiequcncy is disgraceful to 
the med; I profession. Any doctor who brings a patient 
safely through the small-pox, yet has taken no measures to 
prevent pitting, deserves to lose his fee. 

In all cases of small-pox, or variola, light should be 
excluded from the room as much as possible, as it aggra- 
vates the disease. One remedy to prevent pitting is to 
dissolve gum arabic in honey, and sufficient lamp-black 
to color the whole mixture. Tlicn witii a camel's-hair 
brush paint over every jiustule or spot. Dr. Schonlien, of 
Hanover, has a still simpler process, which he says he has 
used most successfully to prevent pitting in small-pox and 

my children of the scarlet fever ; of water. Take a spoonful every 

here it is as I have used it to cure hour. Either disease will disappear 

small-pox, when learned physicians in twelve Jwurs. For a child smaller 

said that the patient must die, it doses, according to age. If counties 

cured: — Sulphate of zinc, one grain ; would compel their pl.ysi-cians to 

foxglove (digitalis), one grain ; half use this, there would be no need of 

a teaspoonfnl of sugar; mix with pest-houses. If you value advice 

two tablespoonfuls of water ; when and experience, use this for that 

thoroughly mixed, add four ounces terrible disease." 



FAIIILY MEDICINE CHEST. 29f 

also in measles, scarlatina, eliicken-pox, to relieve the 
itching and irritation of these complaints. It consists in 
smearing the whole surface of the body, after the eruption 
is fairly out, with bacon fat, and the simplest way of em- 
ploying it is to boil thoroughly a small piece of bacon 
with the skin on, and when cold cut off the skin with the 
fat adhering to it, which is to be scored crosswise with a 
knife, and then gently rubbed over the surface once, twice, 
or thrice a day, according to the extent of the eruption 
and the recurrence of itching and irritation. 

Dr. Allshorn, of Edinburgh, uses three parts of oil 
and one of white wax, mixed by heat, and while warm to 
paint the face and neck with a camel's-hair brush dipped 
into the fluid. As this cools and hardens, it forms a mask 
which effectually excludes the air and prevents pitting. 

A solution of India rubber in chloroform is used by 
some physicians, but others consider it injurious if npt 
dangerous in suppressing the natural exudation of the skin. 

How to Prevent Hydrophobia. 

If hydrophobia be once developed in the human system 
we believe no cure for it has yet been found. But hydro- 
phobia may be effectually prevented by the prompt use of 
proper remedies. As soon as a person has received a bite 
from an animal, whether dog or cat, that may possibly be 
mad, he should instantly run a stick of nitrate of silver 
(lunar caustic) into the wound for the space of five or ten 
seconds — not minutes. The stick of lunar caustic should 
be pointed, in order the more thoroughly to enter the 
wound, and may be obtained, ready for use, from any 
druggist. The nitrate of silver acts not only as a caustic, 
but neutralizes the poison. Mr. Youatt, the celebrated 
English veterinary surgeon, regarded this as an infallible 



296 II03IE COMFORTS. 

preventive if properly and immediately applied. He 
himself had been bitten many times by rabid animals, but 
regarded that as a slight circumstance when he could 
apply lunar caustic. 

Sea-Sickness. 

An eminent French physician, Dr. Guardes, having 
heard that American physicians use syrup of chloral as a 
preventive of sea-sickness, experimented with it on two 
trips across the English Channel, and with successful 
results. He compounded a draught, composed of 45 grains 
of chloral, 50 grammes distilled water, 60 grammes goose- 
berry syrup, and tw^o drops French essence of peppermint ; 
and took half of the draught when the vessel left the har- 
bor, and the other half on the return trip ; and though as 
a rule affected by sea-sickness when crossing the Channel, 
he^ entirely avoided this disagreeable malady, and regards 
chloral as an efficacious preventive. — Journal de Thera- 
peidiquc. 

Colonel Knox, an extensive traveller, says the following 
prescription has saved him, and many others to whom he 
has given it, from being sick at sea : 

The night before you are to sail, take a blue pill^ten 
grains — -just before going to bed ; and when you get up in 
the morning, take, the first thing, a dose of citrate of mag- 
nesia. Then eat your breakfast and go on board, and I will 
wager four to one that you will not be sea-sick a moment. 

How to Treat Sprains of the Wrist or Ankle. 
As soon as possible after the accident, get a cotton band- 
age one or two yards long, and two to two and a half inches 
wide; wet it in cold water, and roll it smoothly and firmly 
around the injured part. Keep the limb at rest, exposed 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 297 

to the air, and continually clamp with cold water. The 
sooner after the accident the bandage is applied, the less 
pain and swelling there will be ; but if pain becomes ex- 
cessive, care must be taken to slightly loosen the bandage. 

What to do in Cases of Sunstroke and Fits. 

Sunstroke, Avhich is an instantaneous inflammation oc- 
casioned by the sun's rays aifecting an enfeebled brain, 
requires prompt treatment or the patient will speedily 
die. The approved treatment for sunstroke is, to remove 
the sufferer into the shade, free the neck from all that binds 
it, and pour warm water on the head and dash it upon the 
body, or apply rags dipped in warm water, and renewed 
every minute. Sometimes it requires an hour or two, be- 
fore relief is obtained. This, like all other inflammations, 
is more safely subdued by the use of warm than cold 
water. 

Sunstroke may be prevented by wearing a silk handker- 
chief or a cabbage leaf, or a wet cloth of any kind, in the 
crown of the hat. Persons who indulge in stimulating 
drinks are more liable to sunstroke than others. Laborers 
exposed to the sun's rays should wash the head in cold 
water several times a day, and the body with a wet towel 
every night before going to bed, rubbing sufficiently to 
cause redness of the skin. 

When a man falls in a Jit, loosen the clothing but keep 
the head and shoulders raised. Give him plenty of air ; 
the bystanders must not be permitted to crowd around him. 
He will soon come to himself if let alone, and should then 
be kept quiet till he is able to go or be removed to his home. 



298 HOME COMFOnrS. 

Tetter, Ringworm and Barber's Itch. 

Dr. Cliase, of iNIic'lii^an, says he speaks from extensive 
experience in reooniniending cigar ashes, as a cure for these 
complaints. He says, that half of one cigar cured him of 
itch when a barber would not undertake to shave him. 
His remedy is as follows : 

Take the best Cuba cigar, and smoke a sufficient length 
of time to accumulate a (quarter or half inch of ashes upon 
the end of it; then wet the whole surface of the sore with 
saliva from the mouth, and rub the ashes thoroughly into 
and all over the sore or crui)tion ; do this three times a day, 
and inside of a week all will be smooth and well. A more 
reliable remedy for itch and tetter is given in the succeeding 
chapter. 

How to Avoid Curvature of the Spine. 

In nineteen cases out of twenty, crook-back results from 
"weakness of some of the ligaments and muscles which sup- 
port and move the spine, or from irregularity of strength in 
their various parts. The age of curvature is from eight 
to eighteen ; the subjects most liable to it are delicate chil- 
dren of the upper and middle classes, particularly school- 
girls. At this tender age, the bones, ligaments and muscles 
of the spine have not yet acquired that consolidation and 
firmness which is necessary to sujijwrt the weight of the 
head, shoulders and chest. The ]irevention and remedy 
for this disease are as simple as is the mode of its pro- 
duction. The muscles must be strengthened by regular 
exercise; and that is the best exercise which calls all the 
muscles on each side of the spine into action. Nothing 
excels the old skipping-rope for the purpose, if used 
in moderation The swing of the arms expands the 
chest and strengthens the respiratory muscles, thereby 



FAMILY MEDICINE CHEST. 299 

giving room for the admission of a larger amount of air 
to the lungs. The rapid bending of the body and the 
jump exercise every muscle of the back and hip 
equally. But the swing-rope and other calisthenic ap- 
paratus are also useful. Great fatigue must always be 
avoided, whether curvature has already taken place or is 
only impending. 

When curvature has already occurred, the patient must 
not be taken to a quack or a specialist, to have all sorts of 
irons and cramping bandages applied. Gentle, but fre- 
quent and regular, exercise must be used, always short of 
fatigue ; a little skipping, light dumb-bells, or the swing- 
rope, will answer the purpose better than long walks. 
The patient must maintain the erect position for a very short 
period of time at once, and then the horizontal position must 
be resorted to. Alternations of short periods of activity with 
long ones of repose, several times a day, succeed the best. 
For repose, a sofa with a hair mattrass, and with a cushion 
to rest the arms and forehead upon, is far preferable to the 
old-fashioned back board ; or Verral's apparatus may be 
used. In any case, the patient should lie principally on 
her face, as the spine is thus placed in a better position for 
falling into its normal shape than when the supine position 
is adopted. In this position, the weight of the body is 
taken from off the spine and thrown upon the chest and 
abdomen, resting upon the couch. 

In this connection, we submit two or three thoughts that 
seem to be of great practical importance ; and the first is 
in relation to 

Cold Water in Disease. 

An anonymous writer remarks, forcibly : " It is very 
doubtful if there is a single possible disease in which the 
patient should not have cold water ad libitum. Oh, hoAV 



300 HOME COMFOTiTS. 

tlie babes often suffer for cold water ! A nursing babe is 
given, no matter how thirsty, nothing but milk. The little 
lips are dry and cracked, and the little tongue so parched 
it can scarcely nurse, and yet it has nothing but milk to 
assuage its craving thirst. Try it yourself, mother, when 
you have a fever, and we are sure that ever after, when 
your darling is dying with thirst, the teaspoon and a tum- 
bler of cold water will be in constant use." 

Uses of Alcohol as a Medicine. 

Surgeon-General Hammond said in a recent lecture 
before the New York Neurological Society, " that alcohol, 
even in large quantities, is beneficial to some persons, is a 
point in regard to which I have no doubt, but those per- 
sons are not in a normal condition, and when they are 
restored to healtli their potations should cease. I have 
seen many weak, hysterical women drink a pint of whiskey 
or brandy a day, without experiencing the least intoxicating 
effects, or even feeling excited by it. 

" The exhausted tissue has seemed to absorb it with an 
energy as though it were the one thing craved, and re- 
covery has been rapid under its use when all other means 
have failed. I have seen strong men struck down with 
pneumonia and fever, and apparently saved from the 
grave by brandy or other alcoholic liquors. I have 
prevented epileptic seizures by its moderate use. Neu- 
ralgic attacks are often cut short by it, and sometimes 
entirely prevented. It has been efficacious in catalepsy, 
and in tetanus ; it is one of the best antidotes to the bites 
of poisonous serpents, as I have repeatedly witnessed ; in 
the convulsions of children from teething and other 
sources of reflex irritation it is invaluable; in the si)inal 
irritation to which M'omen, and esjiecially American 



FA^IILY MEDICINE CHEST. 301 

•\vomon, are so subject, nothing takes its place, and in 
certain forms of gastric dyspepsia it must be given if we 
wish to cure our patients." 

Of Pyaemia, which is a dangerous disease and regarded 
as incurable by many physicians, Mrs. Swisshelm says she 
cured every case that came under her care in the array 
hospitals, by rubbing the body externally with alcohol 
and water, and giving internally milk punch, sherry wine, 
esss, and broths. 

Keep Ammonia in the House. 

No housekeeper should be without a bottle of spirits of 
ammonia, for besides its medical value, it is invaluable for 
household purposes. It is nearly as useful as soap, and its 
cheapness brings it within reach of all. " Put a teaspoon- 
ful of ammonia in a quart of warm soap suds, dip in a 
flannel cloth, and wipe off dust and fly-specks, and see 
for yourself how much labor it will save. No scrubbing 
will be needful. It will cleanse and brighten silver 
wonderfully ; in a pint of suds mix a teaspoonful of the 
spirits, dip in your silver spoons, forks, etc., rub with a 
brush, and polish with chamois skins. 

" For washing mirrors and windows it is very desirable ; 
put a few drops of ammonia on a piece of paper and it 
will readily take off every spot or finger-mark on the 
glass. It will take out grease spots from every fabric ; 
yut on the ammonia nearly clear, lay blotting paper over 
the place and press a hot flat-iron on it for a few moments. 
There is no better remedy for heartburn and dyspepsia, 
and the aromatic spirits of ammonia is especially prepared 
for these troubles. Ten drops of it in a wine-glass of 
water are often a great relief. The spirits of ammonia 
can be taken in the same way, but it is not as palatable. 
25 



302 HOME COMFOliTS. 

" In addition to all these uses, the effect of ammonia on 
vegetation is beneficial. If you desire roses, geraniums, 
fuchsias, etc., to become more flourishing, you can try it 
upon them by adding five or six drops to every pint of 
^varm water that you give them, but don't repeat the dose 
oftener than once in five or six days, lest you stimulate 
them too highly. So be sure and kec]) a large bottle of it 
in the house and have a glass stopper for it, as it is very 
evanescent and also injurious to corks." 

Also keep a small quantity of 

Clilorate of Potash in tlie House. 

An anonymous writer says we have never found any- 
thing equal to it for a simple, idceratcd sore throat. Dis- 
solve a small teaspoonful of it in a tumbler of water; 
then occasionally take a teaspoonful of the solution, and 
gargle the throat. It is nearly tasteless, and not at all 
offensive to take, and is hence well adapted for children, 
Nothing is better than this for chapped or cracked hands. 
Wash them in the weak solution, and they will soon be 
well. It is also good for a rough, jHmply, or chapped 
face. It may be had of any druggist. Common salt 
has been recommended for the incipient stages of the 
dreaded disease, diphtheria; but we have no doubt this 
would be better. If some scheming medicine-man should, 
under a high-sounding Greek or Oriental name, introduce 
some ingredients to conceal its nature, and expend a hun-'^ 
dred thousand dollars in advertising, lie might make a 
fortune out of it, and possibly as honestly as some of the 
great patent-medicine vendors. 



FAIIILY MEDICINE CHEST. 303 

Medicinal Uses of Ice and Vinegar. 

In all inflammations, whether internal or external, ice 
diminishes rapidly the size of the blood-vessels, and thus 
relieves the pain they give when thus swollen by their 
pressing against the nerves, which are always in the neigh- 
borhood of the arteries of the system. Swallowing ice 
freely in small lumps is the chief treatment in inflamma- 
tion of the stomach, and the constant application of ice, 
pounded fine, and enveloping the head with it by means 
of a bladder or other contrivance, is said to be the best 
remedy for that dangerous malady, inflammation of the 
brain. 

To "settle the stomach" when some discomfort is ex- 
perienced after eating, some persons find relief by taking a 
pickle, or a little vinegar, which, in its action on food, is 
more nearly like the gastric juice than any other fluid 
known. A teaspoonful of vinegar in each glass of water 
will prevent any ill effects from using the water of lime- 
stone localities by those accustomed to other kinds of 
drinking water. 

Hot Water Believes Pain. 

Tliere is scarcely an ache or pain in the whole body 
which is not soothed or removed by hot water if applied 
as follows : Dip a piece of flannel or any cloth, of five or 
six folds or layers, in boiling water and lay it on the pain- 
ful part, covering it instantly with a dry flannel of which 
the edges should extend over the wet one an inch or more : 
as soon as the wet flannel has dried a little, or in about 
five minutes, slip it out under one edge of the dry cloth 
and introduce another flannel as hot as can be handled ; 
do this in so adroit a manner as to allow as little cold air 
as possible to get to the skin touched by the hot flannel ; 



804 H03IE C03IF0RTS. 

persevere until the pain is removed. Physicians assert 
that by this hot-water poultice the most violent, dry, and 
distressing coughs have been relieved in a few minutes, and 
some forms of croup subdued in half an hour. 

We cannot, perhaps, close this chapter with any obser- 
vation more practically useful than the following from one 
of the most prolific writers on health topics America has 
produced : 

The great practical lesson which I wish to inculcate, to 
be engraven as on a plate of steel, on the memory of chil- 
dren and youth, young men and women, the mature and tlie 
gray-headed : Allow nothing short of fire or endangered life 
to induce you to resist, for one single moment, nature^ s cdvine 
call. So far from refusing a call for any reason short of 
life and death you should go at the usual time and solicit, 
and doing so you Mdll have your reward in a degree of 
healthfulness, and in a length of life, which very few are 
ever permitted to enjoy. 

If tlie love of health and life, or the fear of inducing 
painful disease cannot induce you to adopt the plan I have 
recommended, there is another argument Avhich, to young 
gentlemen and young ladies, may appear more convincing 
— personal cleanliness. [If you snft'er yourself to become 
and remain costive you will smell badly ; the breath of a 
costive child even is scarcely to be endured.] 

Cold feet, sick headache, piles, fistulas, these, with scores 
of other diseases, have their first foundations laid in con- 
sti[)ation, which itself is infallibly induced by resisting 
nature's first calls. Reader, let it be your wisdom never 
to do it airain. 



CHAPTER XV. 



CHILDREN AND THEIR DISEASES. 

"Nothing can be too insignificant for the attention of the wisest 
which is not too insignificant to give pleasure or pain to the meanest." — 
Macaulay. 

CHILDREN, in their health and appearance, are one 
of the tests of thrift and sources of comfort within a 
household. To rear up a family of children, strong 
in body and sound in mind, is about the only evi- 
dence that most persons can leave behind them that they 
have not lived in the world in vain ; while puny, nervous, 
sickly and silly children betray their parents' secret weak- 
nesses, and are living monuments that the laws of health 
have been somehow violated.* 



* Travellers have frequently re- 
marked, that females among the 
Indian and other uncivilized races 
bring forth children with far less 
pain, difficulty and danger than the 
women in Europe and the United 
States. The secret of this exemp- 
tion from the pains of parturition 
appears to be, according to the views 
of modern physiologists, that their 
food consists less of those articles 
that form bone or osseous mat- 
ter; and consequently the child, 
I^revious to birth, is an elastic, 



yielding and India-rubber-like sub- 
stance, easily born. It is believed, 
therefore, by some, that if white 
women, during the last three or four 
months of gestation, were to con- 
fine their food principally to ripe 
fruits and green vegetables, roasted 
apples, oranges and fresh animal 
food, with very little bread and 
butter and no pastries, they would 
have no more difficulty in bringing 
forth children than their tawny or 
copper-colored sisters. Jlany in- 
stances are given in medical works 
305 



306 H03IE COMFOETS. 

Proper Food for Infants. 

In infancy, as all tlirough life, food is an object that 
deserves especial attention. Dr. Combe remarks: 

" Take particular care of the food of an infant. If it is 
nourished by the mother, her own diet should be simple, 
nourishing and temperate. If the child be brought up 
' by hand,' the milk of a new milch cow, mixed with one- 
third water and sweetened a little with white sugar, should 
be the only food until the teeth come. This is more suitable 
than any preparations of flour or arrowroot, the nourish- 
ment of which is too highly concentrated. Nev-er give a 
child bread, cake or meat before the teeth appear. If the 
food appear to distress the child after eating, first ascertain 
if the milk be really from a new milch cow, as it may other- 
wise be too old. Learn also whether the cow lives on 
proper food. Cows that are fed on still-slops, as is often 
the case in cities, furnish milk which is very unhealthful." 

of women who, tliough they had information is now possessed mainly 

sufTered fearfully in child-bearing by the wealthy and intelligent, who 

so long as they ate what people may or may not need it, while it is 

generally eat, by changing their withheld from the poor, feeble and 

food to fruits and articles not diseased who do need it. All tlieo- 

containing bone-making elements, ries for the improvement of society 

brought forth their children with are mere vapor, so long as there are 

so little difficulty that, had they not born into the world every day thou- 

been influenced by custom, they sands of children who should never 

could have resimied their duties have been born, and who of ncces- 

the next day. sity must become a curse to their 

It is greatly to be deplored that fellows. " Fools die for want of 

science has not discovered some cer- wisdom," and thousands of feeble 

tain method of regulating the num- women are dying slow deaths daily ; 

ber of offspring ; so that parents need households are wrecked, and idiots 

not have more children than they are mul'iplied, for want of an item 

want or can care for; or rather, it of scientific knowledge which every 

is greatly to be deplored that this husband and wife ought to possess. 



CHILDBEN AND THEIR DISEASES. 307 

Dr. Clarke, physician in ordinary to the Queen of Eng- 
land, adds : " There is no greater error in the management 
of children, than of giving them animal food very early. 
Children so fed become very liable to attacks of fever and 
inflammation, affecting particularly the mucous membranes ; 
and measles and other diseases incident to childhood are 
generally severe in their attacks." 

Condensed Milk for Infants. 

Many mothers arc now using "Condensed Milk" for 
their infants, and when perfectly pure, it is well suited for 
the purpose. Dr. Cuibourt, of the French Academy, says, 
" Cow's milk with the addition of its weight of water and 
a little sugar is as nearly as possible equal to woman's 
milk." The "Condensed Milk" diluted with seven to 
nine parts of water exactly answers this description, and as 
it keeps sweet for a length of time without any tendency 
to sourness and without undergoing any chemical change, 
" it is superior as food for infants even to the present 
ordinary milk." 

How to Treat Young Infants. 

On the birth of an infant light should be excluded from 
its eyes for an hour, and when dressed it should be put to 
the breast, for though the secretion of milk may not have 
taken place, the effort will promote it and do the child 
good. The mother's milk is the only food the infant will 
require for months, and it should not be spoon-fed until it 
begins to cut its teeth. 

Food from the first should be given at stated times, and 
with punctual regularity. A mother when healthy should 
suckle her own child, and if unable to do so, a wet nurse 
of good health and morals should be selected. She should 



SOS HOME COMFOBTS. 

be careful to liave milk in good supply, and it should be 
of an age and quality suited to nourish the child. It should 
have a blue thin appearance, and sweet to the taste ; it is 
not likely to be good when thick and yellow, and if the 
milk is not good the child will cease to thrive. Suckling 
infants at the breast exercises all their muscles, and the 
effort does them good, far more than taking food in any 
other way. The saliva promoted in suckling is carried 
into the stomach with the food and is a great aid to diges- 
tion. 

Mental emotions have a direct influence on the secre- 
tions of the milk, and suckling mothers should be careAil 
to avoid agitations as much as possible, or the heat of the 
milk may affect the bowels of the child and perhaps cause 
convulsions. 

What is the proper ])eriod for iceaning a child seems not 
to be definitely settled — some say six months, others 
twelve ; but we think, when circumstances admit of it, and 
the mother is healthy and careful, it is better to continue 
the nursing until after tlie second summer, which is always 
a critical period in a child's existence. Infants should l)e 
weaned gradually, not suddenly, and rubbing the nipple 
with some innocent caustic solution, as a little powdered 
aloes made into a paste with a few drops of water, m ill 
soon give them a distaste for the breast. It is a good plan 
for a mother to send her infant away, or leave home her- 
self for a week or two, in order to wean it. 

The drink of young children at meal times should 
always be liot, but not hot enough to injure the teeth, and 
some very serious maladies result from eating cold food, in 
cold weather, for a long time. The verv young and the very 
old are deficient in heat, and this should be supplied to the 
stomach by Avarm drinks. A good drink for young 



CHILD BEN AND THEIR DISEASES. 309 

children is known as Cambric tea, which is made by pour- 
ing half a cup of hot milk into half a cup of boiling water, 
adding as much sugar as is agreeable. This resembles the 
eau de Sucre, or sweetened water, so popular on the Boule- 
vards of Paris. 

A very good pap, for infants not old enough to eat meat, 
is made as follows : 

Put a tablespoonfid of flour into a pap saucepan, to 
which add by degrees two gills of milk, mixing it into a 
very smooth batter with a wooden spoon : place the sauce- 
pan upon the fire, let it boil ten minutes, keeping it stirred 
the whole time or it is liable to burn or become brown ; 
then add about half an ounce of sugar and a little salt ; 
put it into a basin and it is ready for use. A little butter 
is also very good in it. 

Soyer says that he has known a very robust man to 
make a hearty dinner of two plates of this pap by intro- 
ducing bread into it. 

Bread and milk is a good breakfast dish for infants of 
twelve months old. The bread should be cut into slices, 
the milk heated to the point of boiling and poured over the 
bread, the cup covered and allowed to stand for five 
minutes. This is better than to boil the bread and milk 
together, or to break bread into cold milk. When chil- 
dren are delicate, porridge is often preferable to bread and 
milk. Put two tablcspoonfuls of Scotch grits or oatmeal 
in the milk saucepan, and pour over it half a pint of 
milk : let it boil ten minutes, keeping well stirred ; add a 
small piece of butter and a little sugar, and the porridge is 
ready for use. 

Dr. John Hunter, one of the most eminent of English 
physicians, summed up the proper treatment of infants 
by saying, "Give them a plenty of milk, a plenty of sleep, 
and a plenty of flannel." 



310 HOME COMFOBTS. 

What to do when a Baby Cries. 

[Whenever an inlant begins to cry, without any appar- 
ent cause, by day or night, says ISIrs. Henry Ward Beecher, 
let your first act be to examine its clothing, loosen 
it, remove the pins, or untie the strings, and see if the 
lungs have full space to expand, and the body a chance to 
move every limb and muscle. Rub the body gently Avith 
your warm hand, particularly the back, lungs and bowels, 
to promote the circulation Avhicli tlie barbarous swaddling-. 
bands have all day impeded. Try this remedy particu- 
larly at night, and unless you again " ])ut on the screws," 
in most cases your baby will fall into a peaceful slumber 
and you may hope for unbroken rest. 

But though the garments may be all properly adjusted 
it may be suffering from cold. Touch the little blue 
liands, and you will find them like ice; take the child 
in your lap, draw your chair to the fire, heat a blanket 
and wrap about it, lay it on the stomach, across your lap, 
shake out the foolishly long robes, and hold its toes to the 
fire till warm. Many a child who has cried for hours will, 
under this simple treatment, in a few minutes be fast 
asleep. 

Endeavor to imagine yourself in an infant's place when 
it manifests symptoms you do not well understand. You 
wrap its hands and feet so closely, when you lay it down 
to sleep, that it cannot stir; could you remain two hours 
thus fettered without becoming cramped and full of pain ? 
Loosen the wrappings ; shake up the pillow, and turn it 
over occasionally (and by the way a good hair pillow, not 
too full, and well beaten every day, that it may not become 
lumpy, is far more healthful for any child than feathers). 
If awake, change its position ; or if it has lain long, take it 



CHILDREN AXD THEIR DISEASES. 311 

up, toss it gently and play with it a while to give it a 
pleasant variety, and cause the blood to circulate freely 
through the whole body. 

If these simple methods do not pacify a crying child it 
is very probable that some of the above-mentioned causes 
have produced colic, but do not give the simplest medicine 
till you have tried what virtue there is in an injection of 
tepid water. Unless the crying indicates the beginning of 
some acute disease, we have invariably found the effects 
almost magical, and in no case will it be hurtful.] 

We may add to these excellent suggestions, that infants 
often cry because they are tormented with thirst, which 
most nurses and mothers do not gratify. They suppose 
the crying proceeds from hunger, and the breast milk is 
given, but this does not satisfy. Dr. Dewees says, that he has 
often seen infants, when seeming to suffer exquisite agony, 
rendered perfectly quiet and easy by a draught of cool 
water. 

What Crying sometimes Indicates. 

The crying of a child will often indicate to an experi- 
enced medical man the nature of the trouble. The cry of 
teething, says Dr. Chavasse, is a fretful cry : the cry of 
earache is short, sharp, piercing, and decisive, the head 
being moved about from side to side, and the little hand 
being often put up to the affected side of the head ; the 
cry of bowel-ache is also expressive — the cry is not so 
piercing as from earache, and is an interrupted straining 
cry, accompanied with a drawing up of the legs to the 
belly ; the cry of bronchitis is a gruffy, phlegmatic cry ; the 
cry of inflammation of the lungs is more a moan than a 
cry ; the cry of croup is hoarse, and rough, and ringing, 
and is so characteristic that it may truly be called " the 



312 HOME C031F0ETS. 

croupy cry," moreover ho breathes as though he breathed 
through muslin ; the cry of inflammation of the membrane 
of the brain is a piercing shriek — a clanger signal — most 
painful to hear ; the cry of a child recovering from a 
severe illness is a cross, and wayward, and tearful cry ; 
he may truly be said to be in a quarrelsome mood ; he 
bursts out without rhyme or reason into a passionate flood 
of tears ; tears are always in a severe illness to be looked 
upon as a good omen, as a sign of amendment; tears, when 
a child is dangerously ill, are rarely if ever seen. 

Proper Treatment in Childhood. 

During infancy children should be encouraged to sleep, 
and to promote this object light should be excluded from 
the bed-room as much as jiossible, the bedding should be 
soft, the blankets fine and the counterpanes very light; 
the pillows should be small and not made of feathers, as 
they are too heating to the head. A good pillow for 
infants may be made of cotton-batting, enclosed in ticking, 
with threads run through it to keep the batting in place 
or from forming knots. 

Towards evening the child should be kc})t active and 
wakeful, so that its rest during the night may be prolonged 
and undisturbed. Mothers will save themselves a world 
of trouble by not accustoming their babies to be rocked to 
sleep either in the cradle or in the arms. Young mothers 
are apt to err in this way, and bring upon themselves a 
vast deal of unnecessary trouble, and then resolve never to 
have any more children. A child, if placed in a crib or 
bed, without being rocked, will probably cry at first, but 
an hour's cry will not hurt it and it will soon get into the 
habit of going to sleep, especially if stated times are ad- 



CHILDREN AND THEIR DISEASES. 313 

hered to. During teething, children are always restless 
and fretful, but medicines should be administered with 
caution, and if the gums show indications of festering, or 
white spots, a physician should be called in, who will prob- 
ably lance them. 

Nothing tends so much to promote the comfort and the 
health of children as frequent bathing — in winter in warm 
or tepid water — but the operation should not be prolonged 
so as to weary or give pain, and the towels used in drying 
should be soft. 

Teething children, says Dr. Hall, have often been cured 
of looseness of bowels by being allowed to chew the rind 
of bacon freely with some of the fat attached, and they 
chew it greedily ; it seems to have a beneficial effect on the 
gums. 

When a child has taken cold it is a good plan to spend 
five or ten minutes two or three times a day in rubbing 
into the whole breast, with a soft warm hand, about ten 
drops of common sweet-oil. The doctor just quoted thinks 
if such a course were promptly taken the moment a child 
is observed to be not as well as usual, nine-tenths of the 
ailments of children loould be averted. It has a powerful 
influence in helping nature to cure the very worst forms 
of diseases to which childhood is liable. 

AVhen children have cut their teeth they should be 
allowed a variety of nutritious but easily digested food — 
no pork, veal, fried or greasy meats — -and whatever meat 
is given should be cut fine or minced to facilitate mastica- 
tion; white crushed wheat, boiled and sweetened should 
form a staple article in their diet. 

In the nursery or room where children play, fenders should 
be placed around the stove, the furniture should have 
26 



314 H03IE COMFORTS. 

rounded, not sharp corners, and the windows shouhl be 
well guarded to prevent accidents; a panelling of black- 
board is very suitable for a nursery. Parents are often 
ambitious to see their infants walk early, and this is the 
cause of the bow or curved legs and weak ankles so fre- 
quently seen. Children should be encouraged to crawl, 
but all are not prepared to walk at the same age, and this 
is a matter they can best regulate for themselves. 

The clothing of infants should be warm, light, and free 
from compression. The practice of leaving children's 
limbs bare, especially in cold weather, which some parents 
adopt, is cruel as well as unsightly. The shoes should fit 
easily, and care should be taken that they do not become 
too short before they are worn out. Tight shoes are as 
torturing as tight-lacing. 

It is very unsafe to change the winter clothing of chil- 
dren before tlie first of INIay, or to permit them to remain 
at any season out in the night-air. A well-known physi- 
cian remarks, that if children were sent to bed within 
half an hour after sundown and not allowed to go out of 
doors in the morning until they have had a plain hearty 
breakfast, " half the diarrhoeas, and summer complaints, 
and croups, which desolate our hearths and hearts so often 
in summer time," would be prevented. 

Parents should compel each of their children, who are 
over five years of age, to go to a good dentist twice a year 
and have their teeth examined, and the first symptom 
of decay removed, and thus children will be spared much 
suffering and have reason for gratitude during life. 

[The London Sanitary Record condemns the following as 
common fauljts in the treatment of young infants : 

When they first wake up it is no uncommon thing to 



aillLDllE^ AND THEIR DISEASES. 315 

have a candle flared before their eyes to amuse them with 
the "pretty red light;" then, perhaps, they are jumped, 
screamed or whistled at, tossed up in the air so violently 
that their nerves are thoroughly shaken. At other times 
the infants are "poked in the ribs," unclean fingers are 
thrust into their mouths, whether the poor things like it 
or not, or they may be tickled into spasms, or "bo-peeped" 
at so vigorously as to thoroughly scare them, if it does not 
induce St. Vitus' dance. Should the poor, helpless victim 
scream, which is the only protest it can make, it is libelled 
by being called fractious, and perhaps dosed with soothing 
syrup. 

Other kind friends of the baby will, in the most 
thoughtless manner, kiss and hug the poor little victim, 
even when suffering themselves from sore throat or colds, 
and so entail an unknown amount of evil on the child, 
simply from want of common thoughtfulness. If some 
of these boisterous nurses and friends would remember 
that a very little violent excitement goes a long way with 
infants, they would save them much needless suffering, 
both in the present and in the future. Rest and quietness 
are the chief things they require, and yet seldom get, 
especially in a large family, or where there are many friends 
who take their turn to tickle and amuse the victim into a 
sort of hysterical spasm, and then think him or her happy. 
Again, in playing music to them, the most noisy and start- 
ling tunes are generally selected, to the acute torture of the 
sensitive tympanum, instead of those airs which are most 
soothing and gentle. 

These are a few of the many needless sufferings to which 
children are thoughtlessly exposed. Another .very common 
source of torture is carelessness in wheeling the perambu- 



316 H03IE coif FOB TS. 

lator. In street crossings these vehicles are more often 
than not allowed to bump down the full height of the 
curbstone, and then driven full tilt against the opposite 
curb. Such shocks try severely the spine and nerves of 
the tender infants who are unfortunately consigned to the 
mercies of a careless nurse. We once heard of a baby who 
was reported to have said, " How stu[)id parents are ! " and 
if that infant prodigy should live to be a hundred it would 
never say a truer thing of the majority of fathers, mothers 
and relatives in general.] 

Physical Defects. 

In infancy or childhood is the proper time for remov- 
ing all physical blemishes or imperfections, such as hare- 
lip, bad teeth, club-foot and the like. On these subjects, as 
Dr. Tichnor remarks, parents too often allow themselves 
to be governed by wrong motives ; they start at the idea 
of causing pain to an infant, not thinking that their tender- 
lieartedness will cause his feelings to be pained through a 
long life; and because a blemish or deformity does not 
seem particularly disagreealjle to parents, they, therefore, 
conclude it is not so to others. Children, when they arrive 
at maturity, do not thank their parents for this misplaced 
tenderness, and Avould cheerfully endure almost any suffer- 
ing to rid themselves of physical imperfections which 
could easily have been removed in childhood. 

Infantile Diseases, 

It often happens that within a few weeks after birth a 

chikl is affected with a common disease of the skin, called 

the red gum,- or red spots on the breast, back, and loins. 

It will often disappear without treatment, or after taking 



CHILD REX AXD TIIEUt DISEASES. 317 

a slight (lose of aperient me.licine. There is another skin 
aflcction with a reel bkish and slight excoriation, arising 
from want of cleanliness or the rubbing against each other 
of such parts as the tliighs or arms. The best remedy is 
to wash gently with Castile soap, and use a little zinc oint- 
ment. 

Vomiting is very common, and often arises from reple- 
tion, and in very young children ordinarily needs no treat- 
ment. The soured milk may be the cause, and in older 
children may be cured by two or three grains of powdered 
ipecacuanha in a little water. Should this not answer, send 
for the doctor. 

Colic is a very common affection among children. Some 
infants are constantly tormented with colic for the first 
three or four months of their life, but probably a proper 
attention to clothing and food from the beginning will 
prevent these unpleasant visitations. Simple remedies will 
frequently remove the malady. Give the baby a tea- 
spoonful of soda mint every hour or two, and it will be 
relieved. Place a warm flannel over the bowels and be 
sure that the feet and hands are warm. Sometimes a few 
teaspoonfuls of catnip tea will be effectual. A warm foot- 
bath or an injection of warm water with a little sweet-oil 
or soap in it are good remedies. 

Worms may often be suspected to exist in the intestines, 
and are characterized by many and varied symptoms, of 
Avhich the most certain are : irregular appetite, and craving 
for food after a meal, bowels one time relaxed and again 
costive ; the child is feverish, often picks its nose or grinds 
its teeth, has fetid breath and often a livid circle under 
the eyes. Finding w^orms in the stool, however, is the 
onlv positive proof. There are several kinds of worms, 
of which the principal are the thread or common seat worm, 



318 HOME COMFOBTS. 

and tlie long worm. Thread worms, which lodge in the 
lower part of the intestines, may be removed by injec- 
tions of cold water, or a little aloes in water, or an infusion 
of quassia, or lime-water. Oil of chenopodium given, 
say, two drops in syrup, three times daily, will destroy 
seat worms. 

Santonin is almost a specific for long worms ; say, one 
or two grains every four hours. This is a favorite remedy 
in Germany, where it is known as the German Worm- 
Sccd. 

Children troubled with worms should have plenty of 
salt in their food, and be induced to partake freely of 
boiled onions. 

Thrush is an inflammatory disease of the mouth and a 
name given to several diseases of a similar character, but 
distinct. It consists in small white vesicles inside of the 
mouth, or on the tongue, or inside the cheeks, and is usu- 
ally accompanied with some derangement of the digestive 
organs, loss of appetite or diarrhoea. The child sucks 
with difficulty and pain, and the mouth is sore. It may 
be cured by the use of a little magnesia, and a lotion com- 
posed of borax, two drachms, in an ounce of glycerine, 
applied frequently by means of the finger on the parts 
affected. 

Convulsions or Jits frequently attend difficult teething, 
and are very alarming to inexperienced parents. As soon 
as a child has the symptoms of an attack it should be 
placed in a warm bath or tub of warm water, and cold 
water applied to the head if hot, and friction all over the 
body. When there is a succession of convulsions, with 
hours of interval between, there is danger, and a physician 
should be called in, who will probably lance the gums and 
order an enema composed of one tablcspoonful of salt, one 



CHILDREN AND THEIR DISEASES. 319 

of olive-oil, and a tcacupful of gruel to be administered 
until the bowels are well opened. 

Irritant or Remittent Fever in infants, arising from dis- 
ordered digestion, is very common between the ages of two 
and six. The symptoms are a dry burning skin, quick 
pulse and flushed face, redness of the eyes, headache, thirst, 
restlessness, and delirium. A child two years old should 
receive an emetic of five grains of ipecacuanha, and a dose 
of castor-oil. The warm bath will be useful, and the 
child will, it is likely, get better in a few hours, after a 
peaceful slumber. Abstinence is recommended, and a phy- 
sician will probably not be needed. In this disease, after 
■whooping-cough, scarlatina, or measles, more attention is 
required, and medical advice is necessary. If such is not 
at hand, use the warm bath, diet of barley-water, arrow- 
root, etc. 

Croup. 

This is a disease that frequently attacks children at 
night, and is distinguished by a peculiar resonant, barking 
sound from the throat, which any one who has once 
heard will never forget. Hoarseness is one of the earliest 
symptoms of croup. If treated properly in its first stage 
it is rarely dangerous ; if allowed to pass to the second 
stage it is frequently fatal. Promptness in treatment is 
very essential. Every fiimily with children should have a 
bottle of some kind of emetic in the house, as ipecacu- 
anha syrup, or tinctures of lobelia and blood-root, equal 
parts ; and as soon as a child shows symptoms of croup, 
apply hot water to the throat for fifteen or twenty minutes 
with a sponge or soft cloth, and give an emetic until 
vomiting takes place. Dr. Simpson, of Philadelphia, 
recommends powdered alum mixed in syrup, as the most 
efficient and least dangerous emetic; it can be given in 



320 HOIIE COMFORTS. 

half-teaspoonful doses, repeated every twenty minutes until 
vomiting takes place. He says no family containing young 
children should be without powdered alum and syrup of 
ipecac. 

In child-crovHng, or spurious croup, which sometimes 
occurs during teething, and which is very dangerous if not 
instantly relieved, the proper treatment is to imitate arti- 
ficial respiration as soon as the paroxysm is upon the 
child, then put his feet and legs into hot water with salt 
and mustard in it ; and, if necessary, place him up to his 
neck in a hot bath, still dashing water upon his face and 
head. If he does not quickly recover hi 5 breath, sharply 
smack his back and buttocks. The doctor when he arrives 
will probably lance the gums and prescribe some simple 
remedy. Regulate the diet, and watch the child, for the 
spasm is liable to recur, and may be instantly fatal. 

Measles. 

In the treatment of measles ordinarily very little med- 
icine is required. Castor-oil may be given to keep the 
bowels open. 

Children with the measles should not have their usual 
food, but plenty of warm milk and water, and as many 
roasted apples as they want. Warm teas of elderberry 
blossoms, sweet marjoram, or sage, may be used, until the 
rash is well defined. Keep the room moderately warm 
and of an equable temperature, not one hour hot and the 
next cold. Remember, children sick with the measles 
should be kept tolerably warm, Avhile in small-pox the 
air which surrounds them should be cold rather than warm. 
To allay the itching which comes when the spots begin to 
disappear, powder with violet powder, ^yhen the breath- 
ing is short, and the wheezing is great, fifteen drops of 



CHILDBEJS' AND THEIR DISEASES. 321 

ipecacuanha wine mixed with simple syrup and water 
should be given every two hours. Some physicians say 
that even in a mild case of measles and in favorable 
weather, a child should not be allowed to leave the house 
under a fortnight. 

Mumps 

Is a contagious disease, indicated by swelling and inflam- 
mation of the large salivary glands situated just in front 
of the ear, near the joint of the lower jaw. The peculiar 
appearance and irritable temper induced have given the 
name of mumps to this disease. 

The treatment is simple, and friction with soap or camphor 
liniment will ordinarily cause mumps to disappear in four 
or five days, leaving not a trace behind. An oatmeal poul- 
tice, or a bag containing bran heated, may be applied at 
night. When the mumps show symptoms of migrating 
from the glands of the neck to the scrotum, call in a good 
physician. 

Whooping-Oough. 

Whooi^ing-cough cannot be entirely cured until it has run 
its course, but it can be greatly mitigated by the use of 
proper remedies. Dr. Dailey says he has successfully 
treated more than one hundred cases by the following 
syrup : 

Take the strongest West India rum 1 pint. 

Anise oil 2 ounces. 

Honey 1 pint. 

Lemon juice 4 ounces. 

Mix. Dose for children one teaspoonful with as much 
sugar and water, three or four times a day ; for adults 
one tablespoonful. 

The physicians in Philadelphia prescribe nitric acid, 
chloral and bromide of ammonium, one grain for each 



322 JI03IE COMFORTS. 

year of tlie child's age; and tlicsc remedies and judicious 
diet will greatly relieve the distressing spasms. If restless 
at night, give the child a warm bath. 

To relieve soreness in the chest rub it with the following 
mixture : 

Half an ounce of oil of amber ; half an ounce of oil of 
cloves; one ounce of olive oil; and two teaspoonfuls of 
laudanum. The diet to consist principally of barley 
water and whey. 

Dr. Delamere says whooping-cough may be simply and 
quickly cured, " if the child take, morning, noon, and 
night, a dose of finely-ground alum mixed in a small quan- 
tity of powdered sugar for three or four days. The dose 
varies from one to two grains, according to the age of the 
child, and goes on gradually increasing. If necessary, after 
the fourth day a child eight years old must take seven 
grains of ground alum three times a day. Milk diet must 
be abstained from, and all draughts of cold air carefully 
avoided." 

When whooping-cough is not cured within a month, try 
a change of air, even from a pure country air to the air 
of a smoky, gas-laden town. Some persons assert that the 
best remedy for an obstinate case of whooping-cough is for 
a child to live the great part of every day in gas-worJcs. 
Sea-breezes will often as by magic drive away the disease. 

Dr. Valentine Mott strongly recommended the following 
prescription for whooping-cough : 

Hydrocyanic acid 6 drops. 

Extract of belladonna 2 grs. 

Paregoric elixir 3 drachms. 

Syrup of balsam of tola 1 ounce. 

Water 3 ounces. 

Mix. A teaspoonful three or four times daily. 



CHILBBEN AND THEIR DISEASES. 323 

Cholera Infantum. 

This is commonly known to mothers as summer com- 
plaint, and at its commencement can, in most cases, be re- 
lieved by simple treatment. The patient should be put to 
bed, and a mustard plaster placed over the stomach and 
bowels. A small lump of ice should be given every few 
minutes, and take of this mixture: 

Husband's magnesia, and aromatic spirit of ammonia, 
one teaspoonful of each, mixed and shaken in a bottle, 
with one-half tumblerful of peppermint water — a tea- 
spoonful every twenty minutes. This is for common 
summer complaint or Cholera Infantum, and to be given 
at its commencement. 

Diarrhoea. 

Very many children as well as grown persons die an- 
nually of this disease, who might be saved by the use of 
the proper remedies. Rest in bed is the first requisite to 
effect a cure, in this and all other bowel disorders. If 
locomotion is compulsory, the misfortune of the necessity 
may be lessened by having a stout piece of woollen flannel 
bound tightly around the abdomen, so as to be doubled in 
front, and kept well in its place. Take a teaspoonful every 
three or four hours of the following 

Diarrhoea Drops — Tincture of rhubarb, and com- 
pound spirits of lavender, of each four ounces; laud- 
anum, two ounces ; cinnamon oil, two drops ; mix. In 
very bad cases it might be well to use after each passage 
an injection, composed of new milk, with thick mucilage 
of slippery elm, of each one pint; sweet oil, one gill; 
molasses, one-half pint; salt, one ounce; laudanum, one 
drachm ; mix, and inject what the bowels will retain. 

In all bowel cgmplaints the only remedy, however, that is 



824 IIOIIE COMFOBTS. 

worthy the name of specific, is a tea made of the bark of 
the sweet gum tree (liquid amber), that grows all over 
the United States, south of latitude 41°. It is said to be 
an invaluable medicine for children. 

Diphtheria. 

A physician of Jersey City, who claims that he has 
treated two hundred and ninety-three cases of diphtheria, 
within three months, without losing a single patient, 
though a majority of his cases M'ere of the worst or malig- 
nant type of the disease, has published an outline of his 
treatment, which is as follows : 

[Our first treatment is directed to destroying the fun- 
goid virus which is deposited in the throat, bronchial 
tubes, or both : apply with camel's-hair pencil chromic 
acid, properly diluted, to every patch of diphtheritic 
membrane within your reach ; give inhalations regularly 
by means of Codnian & Shurlelf 's steam atomizer of prep- 
arations containing lactic acid, acpia calcis, and chlorate 
potassa. If the patient is old enough, let him gargle his 
throat also with the above. 

The effect of the atomizer is, that no matter how young 
the patients, every breath they draw will deposit the anti- 
septic spray directly upon the diphtheritic membrane, or 
the fungoid virus, where membrane is not deposited, there- 
by destroying and neutralizing its poisonous influence on 
the system, and controlling the spread of the disease, no 
matter how deep down in the bronchial tubes it may have 
reached. From the commencement give the most nourish- 
ing fluids, consisting of milk punch, Wommel's extract of 
malt ferrated, in milk and wine; ale, syrups lactate ferri; 
by this means we prepare the system to stand the debili- 
tating influence of the disease which may follow. 



CHILDREN AND THEIR DISEASES. 325 

To the throat apply cloths wet in cold water ; if there is 
much inflammation use ice-water; if there is great swell- 
ing, endangering closure of the throat, use ice cracked fine 
and applied by means of a rubber ice-bag ; this always 
relieves ; also give small lumps of ice to hold in the mouth. 
When diphtheritic membrane is shedding off, there is at 
times great hemorrhage ; the patient may bleed to death if 
it is not stopped shortly. A preparation of per chlor. 
ferri, used in a steam atomizer, will stop it immediately 
when nothing else can roach it. Never be without it. 

Give directions, if patient in your absence suddenly 
turns cold and has a livid expression about the face, with 
very feeble pulse, evidencing danger of collapse, to give 
brandy freely and apply mustard and heat to extremities, 
with free rubbing of body with stimulating liniment or 
heated spirits. The third <langer arises principally from 
weakness of the heart's action and albuminous deposits in 
kidneys, the latter inviting uraraic poisoning, which causes 
coma, convulsions and death. Electricity in both cases 
will assist in removing the trouble.] 

Diphtheria is decidedly contagious, and when one child 
in a family is taken down with it, the rest should be re- 
moved. 

Earache. 

Some children suifer exceedingly with pain in the ear, 
but generally instant relief may be had by dropping into 
the ear a little ether combined loiih almond oil, or apply- 
r.'ig a small flannel bag, filled with salt heated, or a hog's, 
bladder partially filled with hot water. A bladder is the 
most effective instrument for applying moist heat, as it 
adapts itself to all the little inequalities of the external ear. 

Among the domestic remedies for earache is this : put 
boiling water with a little soda or laudanum in it into a 
27 



32G H03fE COMFOETS. 

teapot^ and hokl tlie spout as near tlie car as can l)e en- 
dured; keep a shawl or other covering around the head, 
and over the teapot, so as to confine the steam. 

Another remedy is to take the heart from a roasted 
onion, cool it, and dip in sweet oil and laudanum, press 
the onion slightly into the ear, and tie a handkerchief 
around the head. Avoid all co/cZ applications. 

Burns, Scalds, etc. 

Molasses, carbolic acid, flour, or the white of an egg 
well beaten' up in a tablesjioonful of lard, are good to re- 
lieve the pain of a burn. For serious burns, tlie following 
salve has proved excellent, curing without blistering, or 
leaving a scar. 

Take equal parts of turpentine, sweet-oil, beeswax ; 
melt the oil and wax together, and when a little cool, 
add the turpentine, and stir until cold ; apply by spreading 
on thin cloth — linen is the best. This is also good for 
chaps on hands or lips, or sore or cracked nipples. 

To Cure Itching Feet from Frost Eites. 

Take hydrochloric acid, one ounce; rain water, seven 
ounces ; wash the feet with it two or three times daily, or 
wet the socks with the preparation, until relieved. 

Itch. 

A quaint writer says, ''that about five dollars Avorth of 
advertised ointment will help the itch wonderfully, but s^ 
warm bath, a very coarse towel, and a few applications of 
dry sulphur in powder, which will cost five cents, will cure 
the trouble." 

This may do for -the common or dirty itch, which comes 
between the fingers, but for the regular Psora, or "seven 



CHILDBEN AND THEIR DISEASES. 327 

years' itcli,'' which is much more common, even among 
people of good circumstances, than most persons suppose, 
nothing will succeed so well as rerf precipitate, in lard or 
butter. Dr. Chase says the following ointment will cure 
all cases of " the Itch," and also pimples, blotches, etc. : 

Unsalted butter, one pound; Burgundy pitch, two 
ounces ; spirits of turpentine, two ounces ; red precipitate 
pulverized, one and one-quarter ounce ; melt the pitch, 
and add the butter, stirring well together; then remove 
from the fire, and when a little cool add the turpentine, 
and lastly the precipitate, and stir until cold. 

Dr. J. F. Bird, of Philadelphia, who has been remark- 
ably successful in curing cutaneous diseases, uses for the 
Itch the following ointment : Red precipitate, one ounce ; 
Venice turpentine, half ounce ; simple cerate or unsalted 
butter, one quarter pound. 

Even tetterous affections are often readily cured, by the 
application of this ointment. 

Hiccough 

Is generally of such a trivial nature as not to require in- 
terference. But should it be severe, give four or five grains 
of calcined magnesia, with a little syrup, and anise-seed 
water. Hiccough may generally be traced to over-eating. 

Scarlet Fever 

Is one of those diseases that are very much dreaded when 
they make their appearance in the household, though it is 
by no means so fatal as is generally supposed. With 
proper treatment and careful nursing there is really very 
little danger to be apprehended from scarlet fever, unless 
it be of the malignant type. In order to distinguish a 
case of scarlatina from other eruptive diseases, as measles, 



328 HOME COMFORTS. 

erysipelas, etc., a Frencli physician has discovered a very 
simple method ; that is, by drawing the back of the nail 
or a penholder along the skin where the eruption is 
situated ; and if a white line appears, or, in other words, if 
the skin is observed to grow pale, and to present a white 
trace which remains for one or two minutes or longer, then 
disappears, that is scarlatina. 

It was the opinion of Dr. Sydenham that scarlet fever 
is oftentimes fatal " through the officiousness of the doctor ;" 
and Dr. Chavassc says a truer remark Mas never made. 
The following plan of treatment has proved successful in 
so many cases, that, it is believed, if carefully observed, 
any ordinary case of scarlet fever may be cured by it and 
"without leaving any ill consequences behind. 

1. For the first five or six days, keep the room cool, 
thoroughly ventilated, and scant clothes on the bed. 

2. Note carefully and warily when there is a change in 
the temperature of the skin, and the patient feels chilly, 
then instantly close the windows and put extra covering 
on the bed 

3. Apply to the throat a barm and oatmeal poultice, 
changed three times a day, and give every four hours a 
tablespoonful of the following mixture : 

Diluted sulpliuric acid 1 drachm. 

Simple syrup 1^ ounce. 

Infu.sion of roses (rose leaves and boil- 
ing water) 4^ ounces. 

[The sulphuric acid in the mixture is regarded by some 
physicians as a specific in scarlet fever as much as quinine in 
ague.] 

4. Administer no opening medicines for the first ten 



CHILDEEy AND THEIR DISEASES. 329 

(lays at least ; and no leeches, blisters, emetics, spongings 
or painting the tonsils with caustic. 

5. Keep the patient on a low diet for the first few days, 
but give cold water freely, 

6. The patient must not leave the house in the summer 
Under a month ; in the winter under six weeks. 

[This is the plan of treatment recommended by Dr. 
Chavasse, of Birmingham, England, who has written a 
})aper on the Treatment of Scarlet Fever, which has been 
witlely copied into medical journals, and as he claims to 
liave been remarkably successful in his treatment, and the 
subject is a very important one, we will give his directions 
in full. He says : 

Pray pay particular attention to my rules, and carry out 
my directions to the very letter — as I can promise you that 
if the scarlet fever be not malignant, the plan I am about 
to recommend will, with God's blessing, be generally suc- 
cessful. 

What is the first thing to be done? Send the child to 
bed ; throw open the windows, be it winter or summer, 
and have a thorough ventilation ; for the bed-room must 
he kept cool — I may say cold. Do not be afraid of fresh air, 
for fresh air, for the first few days, is essential to recovery. 
Fresh air and plenty of it, in scarlet fever, is the best doctor 
a child can have; let these Avords be written legibly on 
your mind. Take down the curtains of the bed, remove 
the valance. 

If it be summer time, let the child be only covered 
with a sheet : if it be winter time, in addition to the sheet, 
he should have one blanket over him. 

Now for the Throat. — The best external application is 
a barm and oatmeal poultice. How ought it to be applied 
and how made? Put a half teacupful of barm into a 
saucepan, put it on the fire to boil ; as soon as it boils take 



330 II031E COMFORTS. 

it off the fire, and stir oatmeal into it, until it is of the 
consistence of a nice soft poultice ; then place it on a rag 
and apply it to the throat; carefully fasten it on with 
bandage, two or three turns of tiie bandage going round 
the throat, and two or three over the crown of the head, 
so as nicely to ap])ly the poultice where it is wanted — that 
is to say, to cover the tonsils. Tack the bandage ; do not 
pin it. Let the poultice be changed three times a day. 
The best medicine is the acidulated infusion of roses, 
sweetened with syrup : diluted sulphuric acid, one drachm ; 
simple syrup, one ounce and a half; infusion of roses, four 
ounces and a half; let the infusion of roses be made 
merely with the rose leaves and boiling water — a 
tablespoonful to be given every foiu* hours. It is 
grateful and refreshing, it is pleasant to take, it abates 
fever and thirst, it cleans the throat and tongue of mucus 
and is peculiarly efficacious in scarlet fever ; as soon as the 
fever is abated it gives an appetite. My belief is that the 
sulphuric acid in the mixture is a specijic in scarlet fever, 
as much as quinine is in ague, and sulj)hur in itch. I 
have reason to say so, for, in numerous cases, I have seen 
its immense value. Now with regard to food. — If the 
child be at the breast, keep him entirely to it. If he be 
weaned, and under two years old, give him milk and water 
and cold water to drink. If he be older, give him toast 
and water, and plain Avater from the pump, as much as he 
chooses ; let it be quite cold — the colder the better. Weak 
black tea, or thin gruel, may be given, but not caring, 
unless he be an infant at the breast, if he take nothing but 
cold water. If the child be two years old and ujDwards, 
roasted apples with sugar, and grapes will be very refresh- 
ing, and will tend to cleanse both the mouth and the throat. 
Avoid broths and stimulants of every kind. When the 
appetite returns you may consider the patient to be safe. 
The diet ought now to be gradually improved. Bread 



CHILDREN AND THEIR DISEASES. 331 

and butter, milk and water, and arrow-root made with 
equal parts of new milk and water, should for the first 
two or three days be given. Then a light batter or rice 
pudding may be added, and in a few days afterward, either 
a little chicken or a mutton-chop. 

The essential remedies, then, in scarlet fever, are, for 
the first few days : (1) plenty of fresh air and ventilation ; 
(2) plenty of cold water to drink; (3) barm poultices "to 
the throat ; and (4) the acidulated infusion of roses' mixture 
as a medicine. 

Now, then, comes very important advice. After the first 
five days, probably five or six, sometimes as early as the 
fourth day, ivatch carefully and loarily, and note the time 
the skin will suddenly become cool, the child will say that he 
feels chilly ; now is the time you must change your tactics 
— instantly close the windows, and put extra clothing, a 
blanket or two, on his bed. A flannel night-gown should 
be now worn next to the skin, until the dead skin has 
peeled off, when it should be discontinued. The patient 
ought, however, to wear in the daytime a flannel M^aistcoat. 
His drinks must now be given with the chill off; he ought 
to have a warm cup of tea, and gradually his diet should, 
as I have previously recommended, be improved. There is 
one important caution I wish to impress upon you : do not 
give opening medicine during the time the eruption is out. 
In all probability the bowels will be opened ; if so, all well 
and good ; but do not, on any account, for the first ten days, 
use artificial means to open them. It is my firm conviction, 
that the administration of purgatives in scarlet fever is a 
fruitful source of dropsy, of disease, and death. AVhen we 
take into consideration the sympathy there is between the 
skin and the mucous membrane, I think that we should 
pause before giving irritating medicines, such as purgatives. 



332 HOME COMFORTS. 

The irritation of aperients on the raucous membrane may 
cause the poison of the skin disease (for scarlet fever is a 
blood poison) to be driven internally to the kidneys, to the 
throat, to the pericardium (bag of the heart), or to the 
brain. You may say. Do you not purge if the bowels be 
not open for aw^eek? I say emphatically, No! I con- 
sider my great success in the treatment of scarlet fever to 
be partly owing to my avoidance of aperients during the 
first ten days of the child's illness. If the bowels, after 
the ten days, are not properly opened, a dose or two of the 
following mixture should be given : take of simple syrup, 
three drachms; essence of senna, nine drachms: to make 
a mixture. Two teaspoonfuls to be given early in the 
morning occasionally, and to be repeated in four hours, if 
the first dose should not operate,] 

These directions are plain, practical and based upon ex- 
tensive experience in the treatment of scarlet fever ; but 
there is one thing omitted, which physicians in Philadel- 
phia regard as very important — and that is, to anoint the 
body all over, two or three times daily, with some fatty 
substance, as bacon or ham fat. This allays irritability, 
and is found to be very beneficial to the patient. 

The late Simon Gartland, of Philadelphia, was in the 
habit, for many years, of distributing the following direc- 
tions for use in cases of scarlet fever and typhus fever, 
and said he never knew a death to occur when they were 
followed : 

Put one peck of charcoal in a furnace and burn the gas off 
in the open air ; take it to the sick-room, and sprinkle over 
it gradually about five pounds of common brown sugar ; 
then sprinkle over this one gallon of cider vinegar. It 
should be tried every day for three days to make it effec- 
tual. Of course medical advice is required besides. 



CHAPTER XYI. 

SLEEP AND ITS APPLIANCES. 

" Tlie real cause of sleep lias been a matter of much gue'^sing and 
speculation with medical men, and even very learned philosophers have 
disagreed in opinion on the subject. Napoleon, whose genius seemed 
capable of sei>;iiig every subject of contemplation with giant grasp, re- 
marked, while distinguishing between sleep and death, that sleep was the 
suspension of the volantary powers of man, and death was the suspension 
of those that were involuntary ^ — Dii. GuNN. 

F all medicines for the cure of most of life's ailments, 
the best is sleep. It is what Shakspeare called it, 

" The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, 
Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, 
Chief nourisher in life's feast." 

One-third of nearly every man's life is spent in sleep ; 
and to many of the busy dwellers in cities, home has no 
other meaning than a place in which to sleep. 

Proper Time to Sleep. 

In former times, it was supposed that six hours passed 
in sleep were sufficient to recruit the wasted powers of 
man ; but modern physiologists think eight hours little 
enough for the majority of grown-up persons, especially 
those whose nervous waste is great, whether occasioned by 
anxieties in business or study. Children should be allowed 
a larger quantity of sleep than adults, in proportion to their 

333 



334 H03IE C03IF0RTS. 

youth. Up to six or seven years of age, tliey require, in 
winter, twelve hours ; in summer, an hour less. From 
this age to fourteen or sixteen, nine or ten hours may be 
allowed ; and so, gradually diminishing to the eight hours, 
as above stated. Women are supposed to require more sleep 
than men. This is only partly true. Those Avho have 
the cares of a family, perhaps the duties of child-bearing 
and nursing in addition to the routine of the household to 
undergo, may take an hour extra with advantage; but 
hidies in society, and young females employed in indoor 
labor, frequently require less sleep than men. 

As so nuich of our short lives is passed in bed, it be- 
comes an important question for thrifty housekeepers to 
know what kind of bed is best. There are writers on 
hygiene who argue that to be healthy, a man should live 
on " hard tack," and sleep on the soft side of a plank; but 
the weight of authority is altogether in favor of 

Luxurious Eeds. 

In former times it was considered a great luxury to 
possess a feather bed, and a straw tick laid upon a net- 
work of cords ; but of late years, feathers have fallen 
into disfavor ; though Dr. Strange, of London, still thinks 
that the best bed that can be devised is a moderately-soft 
feather bed, placed over a hair mattress in winter, and 
under it in summer. But in cities, feathers are now nearly 
discarded, and mattresses filled with wool, hair or other 
materials are substituted in their stead. 

A good icool mattress is at once the most costly and the 
most desirable for all seasons. Curled hair ranks next to 
wool or down, and is the substance of which most first-class 
beds are made. IJnshs, pahi-Ieaf, and oah-splits, make beds 
which are about alike in softness, and all equally whole- 



SLEEP AND ITS APPLIANCES. 335 

some and durable. Spanish moss, which grows in loig 
festoons upon most of the trees in extensive forests in the 
Southern States, makes a better mattress, if well prepared, 
than poor hair. For lower mattresses, corn kusJcs, Ger- 
man grass, and beeeh leaves, are a very clean and durable 
material. Probably there is no material which makes so 
economical and at the same time so comfortable a bed as 
husks, or " shucks," as they are sometimes called. They 
have also the advantage of being very easily obtained ; so 
that almost every housekeeper in the country can prepare 
and make her own beds at a very small expense. Lyman 
says, " the labor of children may be successfully employed 
in sorting and splitting the shucks, and removing all ends 
and fragments of the stalk that are found adhering. A 
mattress needle may be purchased for twenty-five cents. 
The cost of ten yards of ticking is from three to five dol- 
lars, according to quality ; so that by labor that would 
otlierwise be unproductive, or nearly so, and an expendi- 
ture of about five dollars, almost any housekeeper can 
readily produce a mattress comfortable, durable, new, fresh 
and wholesome." 

It must be admitted, however, that only wool and hair 
mattresses make an entirely comfortable bed without either 
springs beneath them or a softer substance above. The 
ordinary spiral coils, which make the best springs, may be 
obtained at any upholstery establishment, for about seventy- 
five cents a dozen, and five dozen are sufficient for the 
longest bed. A person moderately skilled in the use of 
tools can bore the holes, and fasten them to the slats of an 
ordinary bedstead. With proper usage, these springs will 
last a lifetime. 



336 n03IE COMFOliTS. 

Best Covering for Beds. 

Tlie value of bed-clothing depends more on the quality 
than the quantity of the articles used. The most satisfac- 
tory covering for a bed in cold weather is a double rose- 
blanket, thick and warm. No other substance will com- 
pare with fine avooI, or comforter of down, in the jjroperty 
of retaining warmth, and of feeling light and agreeable. 
Blankets, however, to be comfortable and Avholesome, 
must be frequently exposed to fresh air. Even those 
made of the finest wool, if constantly used, without careful 
airing, will cease to be the luxurious covering that they 
are when new. When washed, they should be dried as 
rapidly as possible, and the nap raised by going over 
them with a fine and short toothed icool card. By this 
means the newness of feeling may be retained in blankets 
and other woollens, as long as they are worn, and their 
warmth greatly increased. 

With regard to sheets, the preference that so many 
housekeepers show for linen sheets rather than cotton is 
not, in the opinion of })hil'osophical Avriters, supported by 
sound rules of health. Sheets of fine bleached cotton, cost- 
ing not half as much as fine linen, are more comfortable 
in cool weather, nearly as much so in warm : are washed 
and ironed with greater facility, and are wholly unobjec- 
tionable on sanitary considerations. Linen retains its 
whiteness longer than cotton, is somewhat more durable, 
and in the hottest weather is cool and soothing to the 
touch. But for pillow-slips, linen is decidedly, and at all 
times, preferable to muslin, being whiter, pleasanter to the 
touch, smoother and more lasting. 

When sheets are perfectly dried and laid away for the 
ironing table, if sprigs of lavender or some other pleasant 



SLEEP AXD ITS APPLIANCES. 337 

perfume, as little perfume-bags of powdered orris-root, are 
laid between the folds, the luxury of tlie bed will be very 
much increased. 

Some writers on hygiene think horse-hair pillows much 
more conducive to health than feathers, especially for chil- 
dren, as they keep the head cooler. 

How to Ventilate Sleeping ApartmentSt 

So soon as the occupants have left the room, the bed- 
clothes should be entirely removed from the bed, and hung 
upon a clothes-horse or the backs of chairs, the bed shaken 
up, and all curtains, if used, drawn closely to the balposts. 
The windows should then be opened both at top and at 
])ottom. Dr. Strange, in his treatise on health, says: "I 
find in warm weather, healthy people wish to dress with 
the windows open, to enjoy the invigorating breeze: this 
should not be done until the proper amount of friction 
shall have braced the relaxed skin." 

The windows should remain open in summer, or in very 
fine weather, until a little before sunset ; in very sultry wea- 
ther some outside air may be admitted all night. In winter 
and early spring, windows should remain open until a little 
after midday, when the warmth of the air is greatest, and 
then close<^l. In this way the air of the best portion of the 
day is shut in and reserved for respiration during the 
night, when the external air is at the worst. When it is es- 
sential, from the construction of the room or the number of 
persons sleeping in it, a fire should be lighted for a few hours 
during the afternoon, in very cold and damp weather, so as 
to dry the air which has been shut in. This is the only way 
in which the exhalations from the bed-elothing can be got 
rid of in such a state of the atmosphere, and the sweetness 
28 



338 HOME COMFOBTS. 

and purity of the clothing and other materials, which are 
kei)t in drawers and wardrobes, secured. 

It sometimes happens that sleep is partial and fickle, 
visiting " the ship-boy on the high and giddy mast," yet 
denied to a king " with all appliances and means to boot;" 
and it therefore is important to consult physiologists, to 
learn 

What can be Done to Induce Sleep. 

The first rule they recommend is, to exclude the light 
from acting on the tired retina of the eye, and, as much as 
possible, noises or sounds from the ear, except such as are 
of a low, monotonous character. Cold air must not blow 
upon the face, or rush into the lungs to excite the circula- 
tion ; and the warmth of the skin should be preserved 
by an immovable layer of warm air in contact with it. 
Second, with regard to the amount of warmth required to 
be furnished by the bedding and bed-clothes, there is great 
difference in the feelings of individuals. Whilst weight 
of clothing is o})pressive to some and prevents sleep, 
others are cold and uncomfortable without it. Invalids and 
aged people should have fires in their bed-rooms ; and in 
severe weather, fires should be kindled in bed-rooms gen- 
erally, both to heat and to dry them. For tins purpose, it is 
best to light them some hours before retiring to rest and 
after the windows have been closed. They may then with 
advantage be allowed to go out at, or soon after, bed-time, 
except in very severe weather or in the case of very deli- 
cate or invalid persons. Used in this way, there is no 
weather when sleeping apartments may not be sufficiently 
ventilated ; and in low or damp situations and the closer 
part of towns, this is the only way in which pure air can 
be secured during a considerable portion of the winter and 
early spring. 



SLEEP AND ITS APPLIAXCES. 339 

Thirdly. It is better to go to sleep on the right side 
than the left ; for " then the stomach is very much in the 
position of a bottle turned u])side-down, and the contents 
are aided in passing out by gravitation. If one goes to 
sleep on the left side, the operation of emptying the 
stomach of its contents is more like drawing water from a 
well. After going to sleep, let the body take its own posi- 
tion. If you sleep on your back, especially soon after a 
hearty meal, the weight of the digestive organs and that 
of the food, resting on the great vein of the body near the 
back-bone, compresses it and arrests the flow of the blood 
more or less. If the arrest is partial, the sleep is dis- 
turbed, and there are unpleasant dreams. If the meal is 
more recent or hearty, the arrest is more decided, and the 
various sensations, such as failing over a precipice or the 
pursuit of a wild beast, or what is commonly called ' night- 
mare,' attacks us ; and the desperate effort to get rid of it 
arouses the sleeper." 

Fourthly. The condition of the body exercises a great 
influence, either good or evil, upon the chances of obtain- 
ing sleep. When the feet are cold or damp on going to 
bed, a refreshing sleep is impossible; therefore it is a good 
plan to spend a few minutes, before going to bed, in dry- 
ing and heating the feet before the fire, with the stockings 
off. Indians and hunters, it has been observed, always 
sleep with their feet towards the camp fire. 

The condition of the stomach, also, has a great effect 
upon the quality of the sleep. When the food is not being 
properly digested, the sleep will be disturbed ; and some 
physiologists recommend that persons should not try to 
sleep until digestion has been completed. But too long 
a time since the last food was taken should not be allowed 
to elapse before bed-time, or the want of sustenance in the 



B40 HOME COMFORTS. 

system Avill cause, especially in weakly persons, a feeling 
of exhaustion and sinking, which is antagonistic to sleep. 
Many persons rest better after talcing a little supper a 
short time before going to bed. Dr. Strange recommends 
a cup of cocoa, with bread and butter, or a cupful of arrow- 
root with a tablespoonful of brandy in it, to divert the 
blood from the brain to the stomach. 

Mr. Buckland, the son of the author of the " Bridge- 
port Treatise," has given this subject considerable atten- 
tion, and is in favor of sleeping after eating. He says 
" I have no hesitation in saying that the proper thing to 
do is to go to sleep immediately (or at least very soon) 
after the meal of the day. All animals always go to sleep, 
if they are not disturbed, after eating. This is especially 
noticeable in dogs ; and the great John Hunter showed by 
an experiment that digestion went on during sleep more 
than when the animal was awake and going about. Tiiis 
is his experiment: He took two dogs and gave them both 
the same quantity of food. One of them was then allowed 
to go to sleep ; tlie other was taken out hunting. At the 
end of three or four hours, he killed both these dogs. The 
food in the stomach of the dog which had been asleep was 
quite digested ; in that of the one which had been hunting 
the food was not digested at all. This fact, I think, shows 
the advisability of going to sleep immediately after eating." 
He condemns both tea and coffee as evening drinks; for 
they stimulate the brain, and are therefore unfavorable to 
rest, though he admits they " actually send some people 
into sound slumber." 

If the brain be overexcited by amusement, or important 
business transacted in heated apartments, a stroll for a 
half liour or more in the cool air will often calm the nerves 
and promote sleep. 



SLEEP AND ITS APPLIANCES. 341 

Professor Terrier, of King's College, London, "who has 
made the phenomena of sleep a special study, recently said 
in a lecture thereon, that anything which has a tendency 
to abstract blood from the brain favors sleep. Exercise 
does this, because the moment the weary muscles are at 
rest the blood rushes to them to repair their loss, and is 
absorbed by them. Digestion and hot drinks produce the 
same result by drawing the blood supply from the brain 
to the stomach. Conversely, anything that stimulates the 
brain, such as sights, sounds, tliought or anxiety, will keep 
a man awake. If we, therefore, wish for a refreshing 
slumber, we must begin by avoiding care and anxiety and 
take sufficient bodily exercise to induce the necessary mus- 
cular exhaustion. 

Fifthly, with regard to the use of narcotics, it may be 
said, generally, that they should be used sparingly, or only 
"with the concurrence of a physician. One of the best 
medicines for this purpose is the syrup of lactucarium ; 
though sometimes the effect is produced by Hoffmanns 
anodyne. Hop tea is unobjectionable, and sleep may be 
procured by laying the head on a hop-pillow, made from 
hops heated and sprinkled with alcohol. Onions are also 
soporific in their nature. Mr. Buckland, already quoted, 
remarks : " I now venture to suggest a new but simple 
remedy for want of sleep. Opiates in any form, even the 
liquor opii sedat, and chloroform, will leave traces of their 
influence the next morning. I therefore prescribe for 
myself — ^and have frequently done so for others — onions ; 
simply common onions raw, but Spanish onions stewed will 
do. Everybody knows the taste of onions : this is due to a 
peculiar essential oil contained in this most valuable and 
healthy root. This oil has, I am sure, highly soporific powers. 
In my own case they never fail. If I am much pressed with 



342 II02IE COMFORTS. 

work, and feel I shall not sleep, I eat two or three small 
onions,' and the effect is magical. Onions are also excellent 
things to eat when much exposed to intense cold." 

Franklin's Art of Procuring Sleep. 

When you are awakened by uneasiness, and find you 
cannot easily sleep again, get out of bed, beat up and turn 
your pillow, shake the bedclothes well with at least twenty 
shakes ; then throw the bed open and leave it to cool, in 
the mean while continuing undressed ; walk about your 
chamber, till your skin has had time to discharge its load, 
which it will do sooner as the air may be drier and colder. 
When you begin to feel the cold air unpleasant, then re- 
turn to your bed and you will soon fall asleep, and your 
sleep will be sweet and pleasant. All the scenes presented 
by your fancy will be of a pleasing kind. I am often as 
agreeably entertained with them as by the scenery of an 
opera. If you happen to be too indolent to get out of bed, 
you may, instead of it, lift up your bedclothes so as to 
draw in a good deal of fresh air, and, by letting them fall, 
force it out again. This, repeated twenty times, will so 
clear them of the perspirable matter they have imbibed as 
to permit your sleeping well afterward. But the latter 
method is not equal to the former. 

Those who do not love trouble, and can afford to have 
two beds, Avill find great luxury in rising when they wake 
in a hot bed and going into a cool one. Such shifting of 
beds would be of great service to persons ill in fever, as it 
refreshes and frequently procures sleep. A very large bed 
that will admit a removal so distant from the first situa- 
tion as to be cool and sweet, may, in a degree, answer the 
same end. 

These are the rules of the art ; and observing them, and 



SLEEP AND ITS APPLIANCES. 



343 



maintaining a conscience void of offence, one may realize 
" that to be able to lie down at nights and fall to sleep 
within ten minntes, and to know no dream or waking until 
morning comes; and then to bound out of bed, full of 
health, freshness and good humor, is a blessing well Avorthy 
tlie warmest outgushings of a thankful heart towards Him 
who giveth us all things richly to enjoy." 




CHAPTER XVII. 

THE ART OF PEOLOXGIXG LIFE. 

"Acute theologists have shown tliat tlie clironology of tlie early ages 
•was not the same as that used at present. Some, particuharly Heiisler, 
have proved, with the highest probability, that the year till the time 
of Abraham consisted only of three months ; that it was afterwards ex- 
tended to eight ; and that it was not till the time of Joseph that it was 
made to consist of twelve. These assertions are, in a certain degree, 
confirmed by some of the eastern nations, who still reckon only three 
months to the year; and besides, it would be altogether inexplicable 
why the life of man «hould have been shortened one-half immediately 
after the flood. It would be equally inexplicable why the patriarchs 
did not marry till their sixtieth, seventieth, and even hundredth year; 
but this difficulty vanishes when we reckon these ages according to the 
before-mentioned standard, which will give the twentieth or tliirtieth 
year; and consequently, the same periods at which people marry at 
present. The whole, therefore, according to this explanation, assumes 
a different appearance. The sixteen hundred years before the flood will 
become four hundred and fourteen ; and the nine hundred years (the 
highest record) which Methuselah lived, will be reduced to two hun- 
dred, — an age which is not impossible, and to which some men in 
modern times have nearly approached." — De. Hufeland. 

'ROM the earliest ages, men have sought to discover 
some means by which deatli may be averted and h'fe 
may be prolonged. The favorite prescription of the 
old Egyptian physicians to remove disorders from the 
human system was a frequent emetic and to keep up perspira- 
tion. "So general was this idea, that it became a custom 
araon^- the people to address each other with 'How do you 
344 



THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 345 

sweat ? ' instead of ' How do you do ? ' The degree of 
perspiration was supposed to indicate the state or degree 
of health." In Greece and Rome, the physicians prescribed 
pills and balsams, and the philosophers wrote in favor of 
gymnastics, bathing, bodily friction, and temperance in 
eating and drinking, as the best means of preserving health 
and prolonging life. 

Among the empirical ideas that have from time to time 
had their advocates, was the belief that there are fountains 
in some parts of the world that will renew the youth of 
those who bathe in their waters. One of these was located 
in the island of Negropont, in the Grecian Archipelago ; 
another at Lefucaya, in Peru ; and Ponce de Leon reported 
that he had discovered one of these priceless fountains in 
Florida. In order to relieve persons from the necessity 
of travelling to foreign countries to enjoy these waters, 
physicians at different times have announced that they 
had compounded some wonderful preparation from min- 
eral, vegetable and animal substances, as the Stone of Fire, 
the Quintessence of Ambergris and the Essence of Vipers — 
which, if taken as they direct, would re-establish broken 
constitutions, purify the blood, substitute new spirits, re- 
animate those which were exhausted ; in short, restore youth 
and give immortality. Paracelsus boasted that by his 
" Mercury of Life " it was as easy for him to metamor- 
phose an old man into a young one, as to change iron into 
gold ; and yet the very man who promised to prolong the 
life of others died at the early age of thirty-seven. 

The average period of human life has considerably de- 
clined since the days of Noah, when, and for several cen- 
turies after, it was reckoned at 120 years; but there are 
well-authenticated instances of individuals in modern 



346 II03IE COMFORTS. 

times, who lived more than six-score years. In Great 
Britain there are records containing the names of over 
fifty persons who lived to be centenarians, some of them 
by no means models of sobriety and abstemiousness, quite 
the contrary ; and at least three of them lived for one 
hundred and fifty and more years. 

Francis Confit, a native of Yorkshire, England, 
lived to be one hundred and fifty years okl, and retained 
his senses to the last. No extended notice of his life has 
been written, but it appears that he was temperate in his 
living, that he used a great deal of exercise, and ate largely 
of raw new-laid eggs. 

Old Thomas Parr M-as one of the most notoble in- 
stances of longevity in English history. He was born in 
1483, and died in 1635, in the one hundred and fifty- 
second year of his age. He was first married when he was 
eighty-eight, and again at the age of one hundred and 
twenty; and when he was one hundred and forty-five, he 
was able to run races, thrash out grain, and accomplish 
almost any kind of laborious work. He was accustomed 
to eat at night as well as in the daytime, but always of the 
plainest food. His body was covered with hair; and of 
him it was written : 

" From head to heel, his body liail all over, 
A quick set, thick set, nat'ral hairy cover," 

Henry Jenkins, though less known than Parr, it ap- 
pears was the longest-lived Englishman of whom there is 
any reliable record. He was born in Yorkshire, on the 
17th of May, 1500, and died in 1670, in his one hundred 
and seventieth year. He was the son of a market gar- 
dener, and in his early years assisted his father as a fruit- 
grower. He rose early, drank a half pint of water every 



THE ART OF PBOLONGING LIFE. 347 

morning before breakfast, and lived simply; his food 
consisting principally of cold meats and salads. Following 
the directions of his mother, he always continued the use 
of flannel and warm clothing which had been commenced 
in infancy. When hops were introduced into England 
from Flanders, he became interested in the manufacture 
of beer, and drank a moderate portion of that beverage 
every day. 

In his youth he was crossed or disappointed in a love- 
affair, which gave him a distaste for marriage, but not for 
the fair sex ; for it is recorded, that in his hundredth year 
he became involved in a " woman scrape," for which he 
was severely lectured by the minister of the parish, " and 
nothing but his age excused him from doing penance." 

When Jenkins was in his hundred and sixtieth year, 
Charles II. heard of him, and sent a carriage to convey 
him to London. He, however, declined the carriage, 
though he accepted the invitation, and actually walked to 
the metropolis in easy stages — a distance of two hundred 
miles. On his arrival in London, he was introduced to 
the King, and by him to the Queen, who, among other 
questions, asked him, " Well, my good man, may I ask of 
you, what you have done in the long period of life granted 
you, more than any other man of shorter longevity?" 
The old man, looking the Queen in the face, with a low 
bow, naively replied, " Indeed, madam, I know of nothing 
greater than becoming a father when I was over a hundred 
years old." He was allowed a pension, which he enjoyed 
the remainder of his life. 

It is a remarkable circumstance that very little addition 
has been made to our knowledge of the best means of pre- 
serving health and prolonging life, by modern discoveries; 



348 HOME COMFORTS. 

and that some of the best books on the subject are more 
than a century old. One of the early writers on health 
and regimen was Comiers, a learned Italian, who obliged 
the world by publishing rules for a long life ; some of 
which, like the following, cannot even at this day be im- 
proved upon : 

One should eat to live, and never eat to Satiety. 

One should act in every thing with Moderation to Keep the Body in 
a reasonable Activity. 

One should live chastely, if one would live long. 

One must abstain from eating different Meats, and drinking several 
sorts of Drink at the same Repast, lest the heterogeneous Juices hurt 
the stomach by their contrary Qualities. 

One must chew perfectly wliat one eats. Mastication is the first Diges- 
tion ; it is performed by the acid Humor which issues out of the Salival 
Glands near the eye-teeth. 

At Meals one should eat alternately moist things after dry, fat after 
lean, sweet after sour, and cold after hot, to the end that one may be cor- 
rective of the other. 

In an extraordinary Sweat one should not be uncovered in the least ; 
and one should walk moderately when one is heated, for fear of catching 
cold, drinking then a little wine, but no water, unless first warmed, and 
that too drop by drop, to avoid Pleurisy or Rheumatism. 

After coming out of bed, one should never go to look out of the win-, 
dow, no more than to run to the Fire immediately coming out of the 
Cold ; because every sudden change is dangerous. 

One should eat very little of new Fruits at one time, that the Stomach 
may be accustomed thereto by degrees, and may also be freed from Fer- 
mentations whence proceed most dangerous Fevers. 

One should sleep not only with the eyelids, but even lay our thoughts 
asleep likewise; which will never be the happy lot of those wlio use 
Wine immoderately, and Liquors composed of Brandy and (wliat is 
much worse) Spirit of Wine. 

One should Sweat three times in the year, in Autumn, Winter, and 
the Spring, and be rubbed twice a week, at least, with hot cloths to excite 
Transpiration, so necessary for Life. 

If one has a bad stomach, one must keep Diet for 24 hours, and walk 



THE ABT OF PROLONGING LIFE. 319 

in the open Air, to reanimate the natural Heat, loaded with too much 
nutritive Juice. 

Diet and Sweating are a Species of universal Medicine, capable of pre- 
serving^our bodies, and to acquire a long Life. Diet restores appetite ; the 
Appetite moderately contented, augments Strength ; Strength contributes 
to Health ; and Health bestows Life. Sweating disperses ill Humours, 
and eases Obstructions, whence proceed all our Distempers. 

Near the close of the last century, a book was written 
by a German physician, a professor in the University of 
Jena, on the Art of Prolonging Life, which is remarkable 
from the fact that it contains about all that more modern 
writers have said pertinent to the subject. Its English 
editor, Erasmus Wilson, remarks : " The reader will be 
struck with the little real progress which has been made 
in the science of living, during more than half a century 
since the original work was first written." A brief digest 
of this important treatise will appropriately close this 
volume. 

What Shortens Life. 

In the first place, in order to prolong life, it is necessary 
to avoid all those things that tend to shorten life. Of these 
the principal are, Delicate nursing and treatment in infancy, 
as keeping the infant from every breath of air, burying it 
in pillows and blankets, and at the same time stuffing it 
with food ; physical excess in youth, especially indulgence 
in physical love at an immature age ; overstrained exertion 
of the mental faculties, as thinking hard, and neglecting 
bodily exercise, or curtailing sleep ; using artificial means 
to stimulate the mind, as wine, coffee, and snuff; studying 
in a confined air and in a bent posture (students should 
accustom themselves to study lying down, standing, walk- 
ing, not always in the closet, but sometimes in the open air) ; 
diseases, and the injudicious manner of treating them, as 
29 



350 HOME COMFORTS. 

taking food wlien there is no appetite, and stiniulatip.g 
drinks in feverish disorders ; excluding tlie air in scarlet 
fever and small-jiox; neglecting cokls ; and especially neg- 
lecting to regulate the bowels, which is the cause of three- 
fourths of all the ailments that afflict humanity ; impure 
air ; eating too 7nuch, and improperly, as eating until one 
experiences a heaviness or fullness of the stomach, yawning, 
and confusion of the head ; and eating highly-spiced or 
highly-concentrated food, and drinking spirituous liquors; 
fear, as fear of thunder, fear of ghosts, and fear of death ; 
idleness, inactivity and languor ; no idler ever attained to 
a great age, and regular employment is favorable to health ; 
overstrained pjoiver of the imagination, as constant fear and 
dread of diseases, by reading of their symptoms or indul- 
gence in imaginary sorrows from reading sentimental nov- 
els; exposure to j)oisons and infectious diseases ; and, lastly, 
engrafting old age on yoidh, by wasting the vital power 
profusely, by exposure to great fatigue early in life, as 
taking long journeys, continual dancing, sitting up all 
night, or by indulging in care, fear and sorrow, and 
especially by attempting to harden the oi'gans by means of 
cold bathing, indulged in frequently and for a long time in 
cold water. *' Nothing," says Dr. Hufeland, "can be more 
proper to produce every symptom of age." 

What Prolongs Life. 

Secondly, in order to prolong life, it is necessary to adopt 
those means and observe those precautions Avhich promote 
health and physical vigor. Of these, the principal are 
proper care, nursing and feeding in infancy ; an active and 
laborious youth free from indulgences that weaken the 
system ; a hapjiy marriage ; not less than six nor more than 
eight hours sleej) in well-ventilated apartments, free from 



THE ART OF FEOLONGIXG LIFE. 351 

poisonous exhalations, whetlier of ])]ants or of animals ; 
exercise in the free air ; occasional journeys and excursions, 
avoiding travelling in the night-time ; cleanliness and care 
of the skin, washing in cold Avater frequently, taking tepid 
baths occasionally, and sea-baths when practicable; and 
wearing flannel next the skin the greater part of the year ; 
using jjroper food in moderation, and preserving the teeth 
to chew it well; cultivating a contented, hopeful, even 
joyful, disposition ; guarding against diseases, especially 
those to which one is constitutionally disposed ; and a 
knowledge of the proper remedies to employ in case of 
danger of sudden death, as from drowning, suifocation, 
poisoning or being struck by lightning. 

What to do in Cases of Suffocation. 

In all cases of danger of death from suffocation, as 
drowning or hanging, be as expeditious as possible to draw 
the body from the water or to cut the rope ; in a word, to 
remove the cause of death. This alone is sufficient to save 
the unfortunate person, if it be done speedily ; but atten- 
tion to that point is too much neglected. 

2d. The body should be immediately stripped, and every 
endeavor should be made as speedily as possible to excite 
in it a general warmth. Heat is the first and most general 
stimulus of life. The same means which Nature employs 
to quicken life in the beginning are also the most power- 
ful to restore animation. The best thing for that 
purpose is the tepid bath ; but if this cannot be had, the 
patient may be covered with warm sand, ashes, or thick 
blankets in a bed ; and hot stones should be applied to 
various parts of the body. Without these means, all others 
will be of little avail ; and it is much better to warm 
thoroughly persons apparently dead, than to use cupping. 



352 HOME COMFOETS. 

friction or the like, and at the same time to suffer them to 
become stiff with cold. 

3d. To convey air into the lungs is the next process in 
point of importance, and may be connected with the ex- 
citation of heat. It is, indeed, most beneficial when it is 
done with oxygen gas by means of a pipe and a pair of 
bellows. But in urgent cases, and to save precious time, 
it will be sufficient if one presses on the chest so as to 
expel the air Avhich it contains, and then by its withdraw- 
ing the pressure, allows it to expand by its own elasticity, 
and thus fill the lungs with air. This should be done 
with regularity, so as to imitate ordinary breathing. 

4th. Let fall now and then, from a certain height, drops 
of frigid water or wine on the pit of the stomach. This 
sometimes has given the first stimulus to restore the motion 
of the heart. 

5th. Rub with a cloth or a flesh-brush the hands, 
soles of the feet, the belly and the back ; irritate the sensi- 
ble parts of the body, such as the soles of the feet and 
hollow of the hands, by friction with stimulating oils ; the 
nose and throat by means of a feather, or by holding to 
the nostrils and dropping on the tongue volatile spirit of 
ammonia, etc. 

6th. As soon as signs of life begin to appear, pour a 
spoonful of good wine into the mouth ; and Avhen the 
patient swallows it, repeat the same thing often. In cases 
of necessity brandy may be used, but mixed with two- 
thirds of water. 

To Eestore those Struck by Lightning-, 
For those who have been struck by lightning, the earth 
bath is to be recommended. The body may be either laid 
with the mouth open, against a spot of earth newly dug up. 



I 



THE ABT OF PBOLONGING LIFE 353 

or fresh earth may be scraped around it up to the neck. If 
tliese simple means, which every one can and ought to use 
in behalf of his fellow-man, when exposed to the danger 
of sudden death, be speedily employed, they will be of 
more service than anything science can suggest, if applied 
half an hour later; and at any rate the intermediate time 
will not be entirely lost, and the feeble vital spark may be 
prevented from being totally extinguished. 

To Eestore those who have been Frozen. 
These require a mode of treatment entirely different; 
for by warmth they would be destroyed altogether. 
Nothing further is to be done than to immerse them in 
snow up to the head ; or to place them in a bath of the 
coldest water that can be procured without being frozen. 
Then life will return of itself; and as soon as any signs of 
it appear, give the patients a little warm tea or wine, and 
put them to bed. 

Antidotes for Poisoning. 

The third class includes those who have been poisoned. 
It is here to be observed, that we are in possession of two 
invaluable remedies, says the doctor, which may be every- 
where found, and which require no previous acquaint- 
ance with medicine — I mean milk and oil. By the help of 
these only, the most dreadful of all the kinds of jDoisoning, 
that by arsenic, has been cured. Both of them answer the 
principal object, which is to expel the poison or to destroy 
its power. Let persons, therefore, who have been poisoned, 
drink as much milk as they can (if it in part comes up 
again, so much the better) ; and let them, every quarter of 
an hour, take a cupful of oil of any sort ; for it is all the 
same whether it be oil of linseed, almonds, poppies, or 



354 HOIIE COMFORTS. 

common oil. If it be known with certainty tliat the poison 
is arsenic, corrosive sublimate, or any other metallic salt, 
dissolve soap in water, and let the patient swallow it. 
This will be sufficient till a physician arrive, and will often 
render his assistance unnecessary. 

Among the modern theories for the prolongation of 
human life, which have been advanced by modern writers, 
that seem worthy of attention, are those of Drs. Bostwick 
and Hall, and George Catlin. 

Homer Bostwick, of New York, has written a book 
to demonstrate that the cause of "Natural Death," or 
death from old age, is an obstructed circulation of the 
blood ; and the direct cause of this obstruction is the pres- 
ence of earthy inorganic matter, derived originally from 
food and drink. His grand secret for preserving health, 
activity and life, therefore, is to diminish the necessity, so 
far as possible, for eating and drinking, and to select from 
different kinds of food those which contain the least solid 
earthy matter. According to his analysis of articles of 
diet, common table salt, Indian corn, spices, wheat flour, 
and beans, contain the largest proportion of the matter 
which ossifies and chokes up the system, while eggs, cheese, 
cabbage, and greens in general, turnips, carrots and onions 
contain very little ; and grapes, oranges, apples and fruits 
generally, scarcely any at all.* He thinks he has brought 

* Grapes are very conducive to the fact will be surprised to be told, 

health, not only in consequence of the aged whose hands and other 

being free from earthy matter, " but parts of the body are much dried up 

they possess the power of thinning will rapidly become soft, and the 

the blood and gently stimulating it little vessels that have for years been 

and causing it to be sent througli closed will reappear, as also will the 

all the countless capillary vessels, fine vessels of the cheeks again put 

And those who liave never observed on the hue of youth ; the appetite 



THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 355 

forward facts that will prove incontestably that In propor- 
tion as individuals, classes, or even nations, subsist upon 
aliment containing the smallest proportion of earthy 
elements, so do they prevent or retard the process of consoli- 
dation, maintain a state of health and activity, and prolong 
existence. "As long," he says, " as we can supply fuel to 
the fire and keep it free from the ashes, it will continue 
to burn. If this can be done for one hundred or a thou- 
sand ages, the fire will continue to warm and enliven for 
that period ; so, in the same manner, if we can supply the 
body with proper food, and keep it free from earthy 
matter — the ashes which choke it up — will it continue to 
live. Time, or the number of years, has nothing whatever 
to do with old age or death." 

The late Dr. Hall, of New York, laid great stress on 
the posture of the human body in walking, as aifecting the 
health and longevity of mankind. He says, walking with 
the head downward, or with a staff or cane, promotes a 
stooping position and brings on an appearance of old age 
prematurely, not only by the effects upon the structure of 
the spinal column, but by throwing the weight of the body 
on the chest, thus compressing the lungs, and diminishing 
their capability of receiving an adequate quantity of pure air, 
thus gradually purifying the blood less and less perfectly, 
until the whole mass of it becomes imperfect, impure and 
diseased ; then slight causes carry a man to the grave. An 
absolute preventive of all this is an habitual, persistent 
attention to the following rules : 

Walk with the toes thrown outward. 

will improve, the bowels will be- follow those who eat plentifully of 
come regular, elasticity of limb and good grapes. The old man will 
a more buoyant spirit are sure to again become young i 



356 HOME COMFOETS. 

Walk with the cliin slightly above the horizontal line, 
as if looking at the top of a man's hat in front of you, or 
at the eaves or roof of a house. 

Walk a good deal with your hands behind you. 

Sit with the lower portion of your spine pressed against 
the eh air- back. 

Geoege Catlin, who for many years resided among 
the Indian tribes, in North and South America, became 
so much impressed with the conviction that he had made an 
important discovery in the art of prolonging life, that he 
issued a pamphlet in script, entitled " The Breath of Life, 
a manugraph." He observed that Indian mothers, be- 
fore transferring their infants from the arms to the crib 
or plank, pressed the lips tightly together and placed under 
the head a small curved cushion or pillow just high enough 
to elevate or bow the head a little forward, so that the 
mouth would not fall open during sleep ; thus establish- 
ing in infancy the habit of breathing through the nostrils. 
He ascertained that the Indian men, when they wished to 
express contempt for another, said he was a man who kept 
his mouth open.* He noticed that the Indians of all ages 
were exempt from most of the diseases that afflict civilized 
humanity, especially asthma, bronchitis, quinsy, croup, and 
other throat and lung diseases, and had good teeth and 
well-shaped mouths ; and these considerations led him to 
reflect that the nostrils were made to convey air to the 

*A Sionx brave, who had gone lie liad not felt afraid of a white 

out to figlit a duel with knivt's, man who was so much stronger and 

and no quarter, with a Hudson Bay larger tlian himself — replied: "I 

trader, who was physically his never fear harm from a man who 

superior, was asked, after a recon- don't keep his mouth shut, no matter 

ciiiation had been eflected, whether how large or how strong he may be." 



THE ART OF PROLONGING LIFE. 357 

lungs which is their food, while the mouth was made to 
select and masticate food for the stomach. The more he 
reflected upon his discovery, the more he became convinced 
of its importance, until he believed that if mankind would 
walk and sleep with their mouths shut, not only would 
snoring in a great measure be abolished, but consumption 
would become a comparatively rare disease, and men could 
walk unharmed through epidemics of cholera and yellow- 
fever. Finally, he says, " If I were to endeavor to be- 
queath to posterity the most important motto which human 
language can convey, it should be in three words — 

' Shut — your— mouth.' " 

There are, undoubtedly, the elements of important truths 
in these suggestions ; and thousands of men would greatly 
prolong their lives by keeping their bowels open, their 
heads up, and their mouths shut, even if they did not ob- 
serve that other rule, which is, in sleeping the head should 
always be towards the north. 

How the Old may become Older. 

Passing on to those means by which people, already 
old, may prolong their life, Dr. Plufeland prescribes the 
following rules: 

1st. As the natural heat of the body decreases in old 
age, one must endeavor to support and increase it exter- 
nally as much as possible. Warm clothing, warm aj^art- 
mcnts and beds, heating nourishment, and, when it can be 
done, removal to a warmer climate, are all means, therefore, 
that contribute greatly to the prolongation of life. 

2d. The food must be easy of digestion, rather fluid 
than solid; abundant in concentrated nourishment; and 
at the same time much more stimulating than would be 



358 HOME COMFOETS. 

advisable at an earlier period. Warm, strong, and well- 
seasoned soups are therefore benefit-ial to old age ; and also 
tender roast meat, nutritive vegetables, good nourishing 
beer, and, above all, oily generous wine, free from acid, 
earthy and watery particles, etc., such as Tokay, Spanish, 
Cyprus and Cape wines. Wine of this kind is one of the 
most excellent stimulants of life, and that best suited to old 
age. It does not inflame, but nourishes and strengthens : 
it is milk for old people. 

3d. The tepid bath is exceedingly well calculated to 
increase the natural heat, to promote excretion, particu- 
larly of the skin, and to lessen the aridity and stiffness of 
the whole frame. 

4th. Guard against all violent evacuations, such as let- 
ting blood, unless when required b}' particular circum- 
stances; strong purging, exciting perspiration by too much 
heat, indulging in excesses of any kind. These exhaust 
the few powers still remaining, and increase aridity. 

5th. People, with increasing years, should accustom 
themselves more and more to a certain order in all the 
vital operations. Eating, drinking, motion and rest, the 
evacuations and employment, must have their determined 
periods and successions. Such mechanical order and regu- 
larity at this season of life may contribute greatly to the 
prolongation of it. 

6th. The body, however, must have exercise, but not 
violent or exhausting. That which is rather passive will 
be the best, such as riding in a carriage, and frequent 
friction of the whole skin, fur which sweet-scented and 
strong ointments may be employed with great advantage, 
in order to lessen the rigidity of the skin and to preserve 
it in a state of softness. Violent bodily shocks must in 
particular be avoided. 



THE AET OF PBOLONGINQ LIFE. 3^9 

7th. A pleasant frame of mind, and agreeable employment 
for it, are also of uncommon utility; but violent passions, 
which disturb equanimity and which in old age may occasion 
instant death, ought to be avoided. That serenity and 
contentment which are excited by domestic felicity, by the 
pleasant review of a life spent not in vain, and by a con- 
soling prospect of the future even on this side the grave, 
are the most salutary. The frame of mind best fitted and 
most beneficial to old age is that produced by intercourse 
with children and young people. Their innocent pastimes 
and youthful frolics have something which tend, as it were, 
to renovate and revive. Plope, and extending our views 
of life, are especially valuable assistants for this purpose. 
New proposals, new plans and undertakings, which, how- 
ever, must be attended with nothing dangerous, or that 
can create uneasiness, in a word, the means of continuing 
life longer in idea, may even contribute something towards 
the physical prolongation of it. We find, therefore, that 
old people are impelled to this as if by internal instinct. 
They begin to build houses, to lay out gardens, etc., and 
seem in this little self-deception, by w^hich they imagine 
they secure life, to find an uncommon degree of pleasure. 

Such is, in brief, an abstract or digest of the rules pre- 
scribed by doctors, for the prolongation of human existence. 

But there comes a time for all men, when the wisdom 
of the wisest piiilosophers and the skill of the most skilful 
physicians will avail nothing to prolong life. We may 
bar the doors for many years against the arch-enemy who 
rides on the passing breeze and " lurks in every flower," 
but sooner or later he effects an entrance into every habi- 
tation and robs every human being of what most persons 
would give all else that they possess to retain. What 



360 HOME COMFORTS. 

Death is, except it be the permanent cessation of all the 
vital functions, the disintegration of tlie minute cells com- 
posing the human body, no one certainly knows; and 
\vhether natural death be painless or the extremest agony, 
no one who has undergone the ordeal has ever returned to 
tell us (though the few who have been resuscitated, when 
almost dead, have described their last sensations of con- 
sciousness as delightful); but we do know, from the records 
of many death-beds, that a child-like faith in the promises 
of the gospel, a belief that the tomb is but a tunnel through 
which it is necessary to pass in order to reach the mansion 
in the skies prepared for us by our heavenly Father, will 
deprive death of its terrors and the grave of a victory. 
"When the blood courses through the veins in riotous, 
vigorous health, we may indulge in the luxury of skepti- 
cism, we may propound questions that the most learned 
theologians cannot answer, and then mock at their per- 
plexity; but when we see the ghostly finger beckoning to 
us from the firther shore of the mysterious river, we in- 
stinctively grasp at the hand of religion as tiie only pilot 
that can carry us safely over. So, dear reader, when the 
dread summons comes, as it will come sooner or later, may 
you have the consciousness not only that you have used 
this world wisely and contributed something for the com- 
fort of others, but that you have also secured a well- 
founded hope of happiness in the eternal \vorld, and thus, 

" Sustained and soothed 

By an unfaltering trust, approach tliy grave 
Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch 
About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams." 



INDEX. 



Acid, hydrochloric, 225; hydrocyanic, 321 ; sulphuric, 330. 

Ague, proper treatment for, 271 ; whiskey a novel remedy for, 272 ; how 

to prevent fever and, 273. 
Alcohol, uses of, as a medicine, 300. 
Ammonia, a remedy for bites of insect? 2G4; should be kept in every 

house, 301. 
Ants, how to expel and destroy, 263. 
Apples, machines for paring, 75 ; how to preserve, 95 ; how to thaw, when 

frozen, 95 ; an excellent dish of, 197. 
Apple sauce, the garnish for roast pork, 175; an improved, 197. 
Art of prolonging life, chapter on, 344. 
Asthma, remedies for, 271 ; preventive of, 356. 

Bacon, points in good, 88; fried rashers of, 144; how to boil, 171; 
how to extract salt from, 171 ; bacon-fat prevents pitting in small- 
pox, 295. 

Bain mari^, a useful utensil, 172. 

Baldness, remedies for, 247. 

Bathing, cold, injurious to health, 350 ; in the sea, 351 ; tepid, beneficial 
to old persons, 358. 

Bass, how to cook, 97. 

Beans, new method of shelling, 69 ; nutriment in, 137 ; how to cook, 138. 

Beds, luxurious, recommended, 334 ; best coverings for, 336. 

Bedding, airing of, in sickness, 267; shaking up, induces sleep, 337. 

Bed-bugs, how to exterminate, 262. 

Bedrooms, proper size of, 47. 

Bedsteads, different kinds of, 59. 

30 361 



362 INDEX. 

Beef, how to choose, 81 ; how divided, 81-83; most economical pieces to 

buy, 83; for roasting, 83 ; analysis of, 12-4; best parts of corned, 143; 

beef-stew an economical dish, 144 ; what may be done with cold, 

146 ; how to roast, English style, 180-182. 
Beef's liver, how to distinguish good, 84. 
Beef's heart, an economical food, 84 ; how to roast, 145. 
Beefsteaks, how to broil, 152 ; fungi equal to, 149 ; Macbeth's recipe for 

broiling, 152; should look well on the table, 156; how to broil, 

Wakefield style, 184. 
Beef's tongue a great delicacy, 84. 
Benzine will extract grease from marble, 61. 
Bills of fare, for the sick, 176 ; for young children, 177 ; for sedentary 

persons, 177; of food containing brain-making elements, 178; 

costly, 207 ; of a dinner for twelve persons, 208. 
Birthmarks, how to eradicate, 246. 
Black eyes from bruises, remedies for, 275. 
Bleeding from the nose, a cure for, 274; from the lungs, 274. 
Blood, food best purifier of the, 274, 
Boiling meats, points in, 151. 
Boots and shoes, suggestions on buying, 222 ; how to preserve, 223 ; to 

cure squeaking, 223 ; whiskey in, a preventive of ague, 272. 
Borax, value of, in washing clothes, 237 ; will drive away roaches, 261. 
Brains, developed by certain kinds of food, 178. 
Breath, causes of bad, 254 ; how to sweeten, 254 ; best toilet preparation 

for, 254. 
Bread, how to make good family, 158-163 ; how to make stale, fresh, 164 ; 

how to keep, 164; various uses of, dough, 164 ; an elegant, pudding, 

196. 
Bread and milk, best metliod of preparing, 309. 
Breakfast, importance of a substantial, 39 ; standard dishes for, 177 ; a 

nice dish for, 197. 
Breasts, how to reduce, 242; how to enlarge, 243. 
Broiling, secret of, 152. 
Brooms, how to preserve, 67. 
Broth, the foundation of cookery, 72 ; Blot's recipe for making French 

beef, 166. 
Bunions, cures for, 260. 
Bureaus, depth of drawers in, 59. 
Burns, admirable remedies for, 120, 326, 
Butter, how to make drawn, 176. 



INDEX. 3G3 

Cabbage, how to keep, 94 ; how to boil, 151 ; with milk, to render 

digestible, 171. 
Cake, recipe for making the national French, 200 ; imperial southern, 

201 ; Baltimore tea, 201 ; southern waffles, 201. 
Candles, improved by age, 102. 
Cambric tea, how to make, 309. 
Carpets, points in buying, 64 ; large patterns in, objectionable, 65 ; how to 

make cheap, 64 ; Brussels, the best, 65 ; economical way of laying, 

65 ; in bedrooms, 65 ; how to sweep, 66 ; how to destroy moths in, 

67 ; to clean and brighten Brussels, 67. 
Calves' heads, how to buy, 85. 
Calves' feet, how to judge, 85. 
Calves' sweetbreads a delicacy, 85. 
Cauliflowers, points in good, 93. 
Ceilings should be only moderately high, 47. 
Celery, how to choose, 93 ; how to preserve, 94 ; the garnish for boiled 

turkey, 75. 
Chairs, faults in construction of, 57; for drawing and dininsj rooms, 58; 

for bedrooms, 59 ; how to clean and tighten cane-seat, 62. 
Charles II., interview of, with Jenkins, 347. 
Charcoal, value of, 105. 
Cheerfulness promotes digestion, 42. 
Cheese, how to judge, 102; how to make macaroni, 169. 
Chilblain.s, remedies for, 276. 
Children and their diseases, 305. 
Chimneys, best form of. 47. 
China, how to cement broken, 63. 
Chocolate, points about, 174. 
Cholera, how to escape, 277, 357. 

Cinders, how to remove from grates, 110 ; value of, 112. 
Cinder-sifters, economy of, 77. 
Clams, how to judge fresh, 97 ; best recipe for making, chowder, 193 ; 

best method of baking clams, 193, 
Closets should be numerous, 49. 
Cloth, to extract grease from, 63 ; points in buying, 217 ; how to cleanse 

broadcloth, 221 ; to render, waterproof, 222. 
Clothing, chapter on, 216; for children, suggestions on, 218; on men's, 

219-221 ; how to treat wet, 221 ; suggestions on women's, 223; of 

infnnts, 314. 
Clothes lines, protection for, 78. 

Coal, how to judge good, lOS ; how to kindle a, fire, 109; economical use 
of, 110; waste in burning, 111 ; how to measure, 112. 



364 INDEX. 

Coffee, liow to buy advantageously, 101 ; how to keep, 101 ; substitutes for, 

148 ; novel mode of making, 172 ; Turkish method of making, 172. 
Coffee-pots, best kinds of, 74. 
Coke, utility of, 106. 
Cold-cream, useful in piles, 289. 

Colds, proper treatment of, 268 ; how to avoid catching, 269. 
Colic, in infants, remedy for, 317. 
Comfort, definition of, 33 ; elements of, 33-43. 
Complexion, how to beautify, 43. 
Convulsions in children, remedy for, 318. 
Cookery, extravagance of American, 131 ; in France, 132 ; of cold meats, 

146 ; best books on, 155 ; high class, 206. 
Cook-books, practical value of, 41. 
Coughs, best syrups for, 270 ; stopping, in children dangerous, 271 ; 

whooping-cough, how rcliev^rd, 322. 
Corn-bread, how to make, 139 ; best recipe for, 202; Virginia corn pone, 

202. 
Corn-fritters, recipe for, 198. 
Cornmeal, quantity to buy at a time, 99 ; healthfulness of, 99, 123 ; errors 

in preparing, 139. 
Corns, cured in ten minutes, 259 ; remedies for, 258, 260. 
Cranberries, how to keep, 95. 

Cream, good substitute for, 172 ; recipe for fried, 215. 
Croup, treatment of, 319 ; spurious or cliild-crowing, 320. 
Crying, of babies, how to prevent, 310 ; what it sometimes indicates, 312. 

Dainty dishes, chapters on, viz., domestic cookery, 179; high-class 
cookery, 206. 

Dandruff, an effectual remedy for, 248. 

Deafness, a relief for, 282. 

Death, reflections on, 357, 358. 

Diarrhoea, hints to travellers for curing, 276; simple remedy for, 277; 
treatment of, in children, 323. 

Digestion, process of, illustrated, 129; food easy of, suitable for old peo- 
ple, 357. 

Dinners, bills of fare for, 177, 179, 208. 

DiplUheria, remarkable success in the cure of, 324. 

Domestic economy, an interesting study, 33. 

Doors, faults in construction of, 46. 

Dress, suggestions on, 224-228 ; combinations of colors in, 228. 

Drowning, what to do in cases of, 351. 



INDEX. 365 

Drunkenness, a cure for, 2S0. 

Ducks, how to roast canvas-back, 182 ; to extract fishy flavor from, 182. 
Dysentery, recipes of eminent physicians, 278. 

Dyspepsia, tiie national disease, 279 ; slapping the stomach a remedy for, 
280 ; other novel remedies, 281. 

Earache, the best remedy for, in adults, 282 ; in children, 325. 

Earth-closets, advantages ot] 49. 

Eastlake, his directions for hanging wall-paper, 53. 

Eating, chapter on, 121 ; philosophy of, 126 ; how and when to eat, 130 ; 
before going to sleep, 340. 

Economical food, chapter on. 131. 

Edge tools, new way of sharpening, 78 ; how to remove rust from, 79. 

Eggs, different ways to keep fresh, 103 ; how to fry, 165 ; how to boil, 
167 ; and cheese an excellent dish, 189. 

Egg-beaters, different kinds of, 74. 

Egg-boiler, peculiarity of a novel, 73. 

Egg-steamer, a recent invention, 73. 

Egg-plants, characteristics of best, 93. 

Erysipelas, a specific for cure of, 283. 

Exercise, physical, neglected by ladies, 38 ; kind best suited for old peo- 
ple, 358. 

Eyes, care of, 251 ; how to remove cinders from the, 252; how to cure 
squinting in, 252 ; veils injurious to the, 252. 

Eyelashes, how to secure beautiful, 249. 

Fainting, proper remedy for, 284. 

Fairies, anecdote of, 43. 

Feet, proper care of the, 255 ; remedies for fetid, 256 ; for frosted, 276 ; for 
itching, 326 ; when cold, prevent sleep, 339. 

Felons, cure for, 284. 

Fever, remittent, in infants, treatment of, 319. 

Filter, how to make a cheap, 77. 

Fire, protection against, 47 ; how to kindle a coal, 109 ; how to extinguish 
clothing on fire, 118; how to regulate in cooking, 157. 

Fires, how to extinguish, 116; home brigade for extinguishing, 117; 
suggestions for preventing, 117. 

Fish, how to judge frcvsh, 97 ; how to cook, 97; Chinese method of catch- 
ing, 98; chemical analysis of, 125. 

Fits, hysterical, how to treat, 286 ; what to do when a man falls in a fit, 
297 ; in children, 318. 



36ff INDEX. 

Flannel, not suitable for infants, 218; healthfulness of, 235; when to 

change, 236 ; how to wash, 236 ; wearing of, promotes long life, 

347, 351. 
Fleas, how to destroy, 261. 

Flies, how to banish from houses and animals, 261. 
Flour, how to test quality of, 99 ; how to keep sweet, 99 ; how to buy 

rye, 100; a remedy for burns, 120; to select, for bread, 158. 
Food, quantity consumed by epicures in a lifetime, 35 ; may be divided 

into four classes, 120 ; most economical kinds of, 129 ; quantity of, 

necessary to sustain life, 132 ; for the sick, 176 ; for young children, 

177 ; for sedentary persons, 177. 
France, cookery in, 36. 
Franklin, his rules for inducing sleep, 342. 
Freckles, remedy for, 245. 

Frost-bites, cures for, 276 ; how to restore those who have been frozen, 353. 
Fruits, to neutralize the acid in, 157 ; pleasant dessert of, 196 ; eating of 

promotes long life, 347, 351. 
Frying, process of, 152 ; defects in pans for, 72 ; how to clean pans for, 

157. 
Fuel and fikes, chapter on, 105; best woods for, 107. 
Furnace and refrigerator, a combined, 50. 
Furniture, what to avoid in buying, 56 ; points in buying, 58 ; novelties 

in, 59 ; marble tops on, 61 ; to take bruises out of, 62. 
Furs, how to protect from moths, 238 ; how to judge, 239. 

Game, how to judge, 91 ; currant jelly the garnish for, 175 ; how to add 
to flavor of, 182. 

Garnishes, different kinds of, 175. 

Gas, how to save, 113 ; as a fuel, 113 ; burners, importance of, 114 ; differ- 
ent kinds of, 114; regulators, economy in the use of, 115; carbon- 
izing, 116 ; best way to regulate flow of, 116. 

Gas-stoves desirable in summer, 77. 

Geese, points of young, 90. 

Gloves, kid, 231 ; hints to wearers of, 231. 

Grapes, conducive to health, 354. 

Gridirons, revolving, a novelty, 73. 

Grits, a cheap and palatable food, 137. 

Groceries, hints on buying, 99. 

Guinea fowls roasted, a dainty dish, 184. 



INDEX. 367 

Hair, how to secure beautiful, 247 ; rules for improving children's, 247 ; 
wash for dandruff in, 248 ; how to darken, 248 ; to remove super- 
fluous, 248; Circassian method of clipping, 249. 

Hams, liow to select, 87 ; best method of frying ham and eggs, 165. 

Hands, how to whiten, 249; good recipe for chapped, 250; to remove 
warts from, 250. 

Headache, difl'erent kinds of, 284 ; remedies for, 285. 

Health, how to preserve, 38, 349, 350. 

Pleartburn, how to relieve, 286. 

Herbs, when to gather, 95. 

Hominy, how to buy, 100 ; valuable for laborers, 123; how to cook, 140, 

Horses, to keep flies from, 261. 

Horseradish, a remedy for neuralgia, 287. 

Household conveniences, chapter on, 69. 

Housekeeping, few improvements in, 69. 

House furnishing, chapter on, 55. 

House planning, chapter on, 44. 

House-thrift, meaning of, 33. 

Hydrophobia, how to prevent, 295. 

Ice, medicinal uses of, 303. 

Ice-cream, best methods of making, 205 ; freezers, a household conven- 
ience, 76. 

Indigo, how to buy, 101. 

Indians, a valuable secret known to the, 356. 

Indigestion, remedies to relieve, 281. 

Infants, clothing of, 218 ; proper food for, 306 ; condensed milk for, 307; 
how to care for, 307 ; cold water refreshing to, 300. 

Ink, a cure for warts, 250. 

Itch, cures for, 326 ; a specific for the seven years, 326 ; how Dr. Chase 
cured the barber's, 298. 

Jealousy, danger of exciting, 42. 
Jenkins, Henry, oldest man in English history, 346. 
Joluison, Samuel, his opinion of women as cooks, 36 ; his remark on 
dinners, 40. 

Kitchen, best location of, 45 ; advantage of towels in, 69 ; compact in 
steamships, 70 ; sinks in, 70 ; what a, should contain, 70; a labora- 
tory, 155 ; cleanliness in utensils in, 156. 

ICitohiner, Dr., his rules for marketing, 80. 

Knife-cleaners save labor, 77. 



868 INDEX. 

Lamb, how to choose, 86; analysis of, 124; mint, the best garnish for 

roast, 175. 
Lamps, liow to keep from smoking, 79 ; how to prevent explosions of, 

119. 
Lard, adulterations of, 89. 

Larding-needles, common in French kitchens, 72. 
Leanness, how to cure, 242. 
Lent, the keeping of, recommended, 128. 
Lentils, an excellent vegetable, 142. 

Life, art of prolonging, 344 ; Comicr's rules for prolonging, 348. 
Lightning, to restore those struck by, 352. 
Linen, how to detect cotton in, 234. 
Liver complaint, remedy for, 288. 
Lobsters, how to select, 98. 
Longevity, before the flood, 344 ; illustrations of, in modern times, 346, 

347 ; rules for promoting, 357-359. 

Marble, uses of by cabinet-makers, 61 ; how to choose, tops for furniture, 
61 ; recipe for extracting stains from, 61. 

Marble cement, valuable recipe for, 62. 

Mackerel, Lyman's method of cooking salt, 170. 

Marketing, chapter on, 80. 

Markets, excellence of American, 37. 

Marmalade, an exquisite, 203. 

Mattresses, best kinds of, 335. 

Measles, proper treatment for, 820, 

Meats, recipes for keeping sweet in warm weather, 89 ; economy in buy- 
ing, 143; how to use cold, 116 ; how to boil, 151 ; how to broil, 
152 ; how to fry, 152 ; French method of saut^ing, 153 ; how to roast, 
154, 180 ; how to stew, 154. 

Medicines, family, chapter on, 266. 

Milk, a substitute for, 172 ; uses of condensed, 307 ; an antidote for 
poison, 353. 

Mirrors, how to clean, 62. 

Molasses, where to be kept, 102. 

Moles and birthmarks, how to eradicate, 246. 

Moths, how to destroy, in carpets, 67 ; in furniture, 68 ; protection against, 
68 ; in woollens and furs, 238 ; in sofas, 289. 

Mumps, best remedy for, 321. 

Mushrooms, how to distinguish edible from poisonous, 93; good test of, 
93 ; recipes for cooking, 191. 



INDEX, 36d 

Musquitoes, best protection against, 264. 

Mutton, how to select, 86 ; analysis of, 124 ; what can be done with cold, 
146 ; equal to venison, 187. 

Nails, how to beautify, 249 ; a cure for ingrowing, 256. 

Narcotics, the best, 341. 

Nervousness, a recipe that will relieve, 287. 

Neuralgia, remedies for, 287. 

Noah, longevity in days of, 345. 

Nutmegs, how to test, 102. 

Oak, best wood for dining-room furniture, 56. 

Oatmeal, value of, as food, 123 ; best way to make porridge of, 143. 

Oil, how to test good kerosene, 104 ; an antidote to poisons, 353. 

Oilcloth, points in buying, 67 ; how to clean, 68. 

Omelettes, French recipe for making, 190; how to make a sweet, 190; 

recipe for a cheap, 190; souffle, 215. 
Onions, how to preserve, 95 ; how to cook without smell, 169 ; boiled, 

a remedy for worms, 318 ; an excellent narcotic, 341. 
Oysters, how to judge fresh, 97 ; best for frying, 97 ; the remedy when too 

many have been eaten, 98 ; suitable for the sedentary, 126 ; broiled 

on the shell, 187 ; finest way of stewing, 188. 

Paper-hangings, suggestions on, 51 ; how to clean, 53. 

Parr, Thomas, biographical sketch of, 346. 

Parsley, the garnish for cold poultry, 175. 

Pasty-pans, utility of, 73. 

Peas, when best, 93 ; how to eat, 124 ; how to boil, 152 ; a novel machine 

for shelling, 76. 
Peat, peculiarities of, and objections to, 106. 
Pepperpot, how to make a genuine, 145. 
Photograph, how to dress for, 232. 
Pictures, proper arrangement of, 52 ; proper height for hanging, 60 j wire 

cords for, 60. 
Pickles, what kind to avoid in buying, 102. 
Pie, the nicest ever eaten, 199 ; delicious mince, 204. 
Pig, Lamb's eulogy of roast, 186. 
Pigeons, how to broil, 183. 
Piles, remedies for, 288. 
Pillows, of cotton batting for infants, 312 ; horsehair better than feathers, 

337. 



370 INDEX. 

Pleurisy, how to treat first attacks of, 288 ; how to avoid, 348. 

Poisons, antidotes for, 353. 

Pork, how to judge, 87 ; best piece for roasting, 87 ; how to cook, 87 ; 
Soyer's plan for testing freshness of, 87 ; analysis of, 124 ; and beans, 
when wholesome, 125 ; how to cook pork and beans, 138. 

Porridge, recipe for making oatmeal, 143. 

Potatoes, how to select, 92 ; for meats, 91 ; how to keep, 94 ; how to thaw 
when frozen, 94 ; value of, as food, 124 ; how to boil, 152 ; Irish 
method of boiling, 167; cold, utilized, 168; how to cook sweet, 
168 ; Saratoga and Philadelphia fried, 203. 

Potato-slicer, an ingenious invention, 75. 

Potash, chlorate of, the gargle for quinsy, 290 ; in sore throat, 292 ; many 
uses of, 302. 

Poultry, how to judge, 90 ; how to make tender, 90 ; contains muscle- 
making elements, 125 ; how to roast, 154 ; the garnish for cold, 175. 

Puddings, queen of, 196 ; an excellent bread, 196 ; green-corn pudding, 199. 

Pyaemia, a remedy for, 301. 

Quaker, anecdote of a, 42. 

Quinsy, how to prevent an attack of, 290. 

Rabbits, how to barbecue, 183. 
Raisins, a novel invention for seeding, 75. 

Rarebit, recipe for making a Swiss, 191 ; the genuine Welsh, 191. 
Rats, how to destroy, 262 ; to drive away, 263, 264. 
Reedbirds, broiled, a dainty dish, 186. 

Refrigerators, utility of, 76 ; the remedy for impure gases in, 76. 
Rheumatism, difierent kinds of, 291 ; remedies for, 291 ; how to avoid, 348. 
Rice, a popular food, 123 ; how to cook, 141 ; to make a pudding of, with- 
out eggs, 141 ; how to make farmer's, 142 ; croquettes, 214. 
Ringworm, novel cure for, 246. 
Roaches, how to destroy, 261. 
Roasting, secrets in, 154; beef, English style, 180. 
Rooms, novel method of cooling, 50. 
Rust, how to prevent, 79 ; to remove, from cutlery, 79. 

Sago, most desirable kind of, 102. 

Salads, novel method of preparing, 174; best method of dressing, 194; 

Valadon's recipe for dressing, 213. 
Salt, best for table use, 101. 
Santanin, a specific for worms, 318. 



INDEX. 371 

Sauces, suitable for every kind of fish, 192; recipes for, 214. 

Sausages, how buyers may be protected against deception in, 88 ; meat for, 

88 ; fried, a garnish for poultry, 175 ; machines for making, 76. 
Savarin, remark of, on food, 80 ; experiments of, in coffee, 172. 
Scales and weights, useful in kitchen, 173. 
Scarlet fever, specifics for the cure of, 327-332. 
Scrofula, Longworth's remedy for, 293. 
Sea-sickness, how to prevent, 296. 
Seasoning, rules for, 155. 
Secrets in cooking, chapter on, 150, 
Secrets of the toilet, chapter on, 240. 
Seeds, how to test quality of, 96. 
Shawls, when becoming to ladies, 226. 

Short-cake, an excellent buckwheat, 199 ; how to make strawberry, 200. 
Sickness, a burden on society, 266. 
Silks, what kinds to buy, 225 : how to test, 225. 
Sleep, and its appliances, 333 ; importance of, to health, 39; proper 

time for, 333 ; how to induce, 338 ; best narcotics, 341. 
Small-pox, novel remedy for, 293 ; to prevent pitting in, 294. 
Snoring, how to abolish, 357. 
Soap, economy in buying, 102. 
Sofas, defects in, 57. 
Sore throat, remedies for, 292 ; Washington's treatment of, 292 ; in scarlet 

fever, 329. 
Soups, Soyer's recipes for cheap, 134; for French beef broth, 166; h la 

Julienne, 167. 
Soyer, Alexis, a remarkable calculation by, 34; his cheap soups, 134; 

his plan of broiling steaks, 152; novel mode of making coffee, 

172 ; his method of making tea, 173; his recipe for melted butter, 

176 ; for cooking mushrooms, 192. 
Spine, how to avoid curvature of, 298. 
Spices, how to preserve, 102. 
Sprains, proper treatment of, 296. 
Squinting, cure for, 252. 
Starch, most economicai, to buy, 101. 
Stewing, best fire for, 154. 
Stock-pot, a fixture in French kitchens, 171. 
Strawberries with orange juice, 194. 
Students, suggestions for, 349. 
Sturgeon, how to cook equal to veal-cutlet, 148. 
Suffocation, what to do in cases of, 351. 



372 INDEX. 

Sugars, how to buy, 100 ; different kinds of, 100. 
Sulphuric acid, a specific in scarlet fever, 330. 
Sulphur baths, efBcacy of, in destroying vermin, 261. 
Sunstroke, the approved treatment for, 297. 
Sweating, recommended by old physicians, 348. 
Sweden, ladies of, good cooks, 40. 
Sweetbreads, how to cook, 185. 

Tables, how to remove stains in, 63. 

Tapers, best light for the sick, 267. 

Taste, a thing of culture, 44. 

Tea, how to keep, 101 ; best methods of making, 173. 

Tea-kettles, faults in, 79. 

Teeth, how to preserve sound, 252 ; a good powder for the, 253 ; cures for 

aches in the, 253 ; frequent examination of, recommended, 314. 
Teething, a relief for pain of, 313; convulsions resulting from, 318. 
Terrapin, how to select, 98 ; chicken dressed as, 188. 
Tetter, remedies for, 246, 298, 327. 
Thrush, in infants, cure for, 318. 
Tinware, which is the cheapest, 71. 
Toast, to make good, 165. 
Toilet, preparations for the, 240-260. 

Tomatoes, best kinds of, 92 ; accompaniment for roast-beef, 92. 
Toothache, cures for, 253. 

Trout, salmon and brook, baked and broiled, 185, 186. 
Turkeys, how to tell young, 90. 
Turnips, how to select, 92 ; how to boil, 168. 
Typhus, to prevent infection in, 268. 

Veal, points of good, 84 ; choice part of, 84 ; most economical piece to 
buy, 85; how to roast, 86; analysis of, 124; what can be cone 
with cold, 147, 170 ; veal-cutlets, 148 ; how to cook cutlets, 15G ; 
cutlets with tomatoes or oysters, 184. 

Vegetables, how to select and preserve, 92-95 ; as food, 123, 124 ; injurious 
when not sufficiently cooked, 155; how to cook greens, 155; 
washing greens, 175. 

Venison, how to buy, 91. 

Ventilation, of bedrooms, 39, 337 ; of sick-rooms, 267. 

Vermin, how to destroy, on the body, 260. 

Vinegar, a corrective of stomach disorders, 303 ; which is the best, 101. 

Voltaire, his recipe for curing dyspepsia, 281. 



INDEX. 37o 

Walking, a heaWiful exercise, 38 ; proper carriage of body in, 355, 356. 

Wall-paper, selecting, 44 ; suggestions on, 51. 

Warts, remedies for, 250. 

Warren's cooker, advantages of, 75. 

Washing, of body neglected by women, 39 ; comfort of, in sickness, 267 ; 

preferable to cold bathing, 351 ; of clothes, viz., chintz and summer 

dresses, 234; of flannels, 236 ; an easy way to wash clothes, 237. 
Water, how to soften hard, 237 ; drinking of, a relief to the sick, 299 ; 

beneficial to infants, 300, 311 ; hot water, a remedy for pain, 303. 
Water-closets, defects in the construction of, 49. 
Water-pipes, danger of metallic, 48. 
Weaning infants, proper time for, 308. 

Wheat, value of, as food, 122 ; crushed, an excellent food, 137. 
Whitewash, a recipe for a permanent, 54. 
Whooping-cough, remedies for, 321. 

Wife, qualifications of a good, 37-43 ; should be a physician, 42. 
Wine, quantity consumed by ladies, 40 ; how to decant and cool in bottles, 

96 ; good wine is milk for old people, 358. 
Woods, best kind for buildings, 47 ; for furniture, 55 ; for fuel, 106. 
Working-classes, extravagance of, 34. 
Worms, in children, 317 ; remedies for thread, 317 ; a specific for long, 

318. 
Wrinkles, how to prevent, 246. 

Yeast, how to make hop and potato, 159. 

Yellow-fever, observation of Dr. Eush on, 47 ; a protection against, 357. 

Youth, fountains that were said to restore, 345. 

31 







■ -b- 



.^^ 






.Oc 









%■ .& 









,H -7- 



./- ,^\ 



xO '-: 



x^- '^ 









\^ 



$■ 

^V -r-^. 



%^' 






^--V' 



\^ 



«. ^^ 



^-^s• 



,\^ -^y^. 



%■: 



.Oc 






^. .-^' 



^, .-iv' 






■^'"'\ 



%-.<^ 



sOo, 



^r-j^ .-^^ 















,0 O^ 



'ti- y 



'^-^■ 



^.> ,c\ 



^ -Ci 






.^'' 






.H TO. 



^. c»^ r. 



LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
I 



0013514831 3 



