Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



mm^i^ 




^1 



ft 4 



' 



l^ 



I 



JENNIE JUNE'S 



AMERICAN COOKERY BOOK, 



oosTAnmro vpwasds or twelti huhdbxd osonn ijni OABifilUT 
TmBD kbobiptc; dibbaoiho all the populab Dinm, 

▲HD TBM BEST BB8ULIB OF MODBBN BOIBBOB, 
DUOBD TO A 8IMPLI ABD PBAOTIOAL fOBX. 



FOB XBTALIDS, IDB IBFABTB, OHB OB JBWIBH OOOKBBT; 
ABD A TABIBTT OF MISOELLABBOUB BBCBIPT8 OF IPBQLAL 
TALUB TO HOU8EKEBPIEB8 GBBKBALLT. 



By Mrs. J. C. OBOLY, (Jbnnib Jwhl) 

AVTROB OF "TALU OB VOMm*! TOKOI,** KO. 



** What does cookery meant** 

** It meaai the knowledge of lCede% a td of Olroe, and of Oalypso. and of Helen, 
and of Bebekah, and of the Queen of Bheba. It means the knowledge of all 
fruits, and herbs, and balms, and sploes— «nd of an that is healing, and sweet in 
fields, and groTOS, and savory in moat s I t means oareftilness, and inTentiyeness. 
and watchftilness, and williiigness, and readiness of appliance It means the 
economy of your great-gran^others, and the sdenoe of modem chemists — 11 
means much tasting; and no wasting— it means Knglish thoroughness, and 
f tench art, and AraUan hospitality, and It means in flne, that you are to be per- 
fectly, and always 'ladies,*— * loaf givers,* and as you nre to see imperatively thai 
everybody has something pretty to put on, — so you are to mm, even yet 
perattvelr, that everybody Yum soneihing nice to eak**— Buuxb. 



NEW YORK: 

FXOELSIOR PUBLISHING HOUSE, 

29 AND 81 Beekman Street. 



\ 



VauLUr 



OOFTBICrHT, 1878, BY 

AMBEICAN NEWS OOMPAint 



<"# 



TO THE EEADEB. 



A KBw edition givee me the opportunity to add a 
iiapter to this little work, which, I hope, will give it 
additional interest and valae, and also to offer a word 
of apology and explanation to my readers. 

A longer experience has demonstrated one error, 
which is of snch importance to young mothers that I 
desire to correct it here. This is in regard to diluting 
milk, in the chapter upon Food for Infants. If cow^s 
milk is used as a substitute for mother's milk, I be- 
lieve now, from experience and observation, that it is 
best to get the best from one cow, and use it pure. The 
child is better nourished on a much smaller quantity 
than when it is diluted, and is much less liable to flatu- 
lence and colic. Sweeten the milk slightly with pow- 
dered sugar, and warm it by putting the bottle in water, 
which should be gradually heated. I may remark, how- 
ever, that my faith in prepared barley, as food for in- 
fants, has been strengthened, and I am very glad it is 
rapidly being brought into general use. 

All that I have to say in regard to the receipts con- 
tained in the additional chapter is, that they are genuine, 
and were obtained directly, excepting in one instance, 
(where it was furnished by a friend,) from the parties 
themselves. All that I have to beg of young house- 
keepers is, that they will try them with their own hands, 
and not turn them over to the tender mercies of Bridget. 
It is not the personal extravagance of American women 
that is sapping the foundation of American homes. It 
is the dbintegrating quality of our domestic service. 

Jaicnx Juxs Crqlt. 



INTRODUCTION, 



^ Why Another cook-book, when there are abeady m 
many ? ** 

Well, tvff several reasons, one of whioh is, that when an 
inquiry was made for a good, practical cook-book^ we 
knew not which to recommend. We examined a great 
many, and found some good for one thing, and some for 
another; but few containing just what young, middle class 
housekeeuers want to know — arranged in a clear, avail- 
able form, unencumbered with unnecessary and wordy 
details. 

A very small number of the printed cookery and house- 
keeping books have been written by women, and still less 
by persons possessing any practical knowledge of the sub- 
ject of which they were treating. The majority are 
clumsy compilations of all kinds of receipts — ^good, bad, 
and indifferent, collected from various sources, and put 
together with an ignorance as profound, of their results, 
as if they had been written in an unknown language. 

There are certain ^ high art " cookery books that are 
very good and complete, in their way ; but they are too 
elaborate and pretentious for the class for whom this was 
written. They go into the mysteries of French dishes, 
and tell how to get up gi*and dinners, but they leave the 
poor young wife, who wants to cook a chop, or a chicken, 



Yi INTBODUOTION. 

ituff a piece of veal, and make a pudding, or a loaf of 
bread for the first time in her life, quite in the dark. 

It is not claimed for the present volume, by the author, 
that it fully meets the necessities of the case, or has satis* 
iactorily accomplished its task, even within the modest 
limits assigned to it. It is one thing to think how some- 
thing may be done, and another thing to do it ; but it is 
claimed that the object of the work has been constantly 
' kept in view, that it has been executed lovingly, with a 
strong appreciation of the benefit and pleasure to be de- 
rived from good cooking, from the intermingling of the 
finer with the grosser elements, with a pleasant remem- 
brance of good times spent in the kitchen, and with an 
earnest wish to make these duties seem attractive to the 
conscientious young wives who. would willingly perform 
their part, if they but knew how. 

Dear friends, — ^for it is you, for whom this book is writ- 
ten, and to whom it is dedicated, — ^I believe in you, I sym- 
pathize with you, because I am one of you. I see you in 
your lovely young wife-hood, so happy in your treasures 
of pantry and closet, so proud of your first culinary suc- 
cess, and of your lord and master's high appreciation of 
it ; and I would, if it were possible, extend the loving 
halo which glorifies every act of afiection during these 
first happy months, to all your future ; so that no weari- 
ness, no pain, no distrust, no loss of anything that now 
makes life beautiful, might ever come near you. But 
this is out of my power. I can only wish for every one no 
more clouds than is necessary, to vary and make beandfiiJ 
the mjAtrimonial sky, and sc Hear fiiends, 

Faxkwmjuu 



GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP COOKINO. 



1. The object of cooking m to make food healthfbl, and palata 
tie ; the secret is therefore, how to combine elements and flaTors 
f o as to produce the best results. ^ 

2. The best meat requires the simplest preparation. 

3. A cardinal principle in cooking is cleanliness ; a dirty cook 
cannot be a good cook, because all her dishes, no matter how dis- 
tinct in quality, or costly in material, will taste as if, to use a com- 
mon expression, they were ** cooked in one pot." 

4. As a fi^eneral rule, to which there are very few exceptions, 
cook long and slowly, to cook well, and let the heat reach eveiy 
part as evenly as possible. 

5. Fresh meats, and fish are better than corned, pickled, or 
smoked proyisions ; and the flesh of grown animals, (beef or mut- 
ton) is to be preferred to young beasts, such as veal or lamb. 

6. The natural order in cooking meats or fish, excepting oys- 
ters, is first to broil, second to boil, third to roast, fourth to stew, 
fifth to bake, and sixth to 6ry ; and never to Scy, as long as there is 
another method left. 

7. To retain the jucies in boiled meat, keep it in mass and plunge 
it in boiling water ; this coagulates the outer coating and prevents 
tihe escape of the jucies, or soluable matter. To extract the ju- 
cies for soup, cut it up in small pieces, and put it in cold water ; 
this draws out all the strength, making good soup, but poor meat. 

8. Air should have access to roasting meat, hence spit roasting 
before a fire, is found much better than roasting in a closed oven. 

9. Always retain as mucn as possible of the distinct flavor of 
every article of food used ; mixtures which make all dishes taste 
alike, are dyspepsia breeding, as well as appetite killing. 

10. Carefully avoid placing articles in contact, which have bo 

1 



I OSJTIBRAL PRINGIPLBS OF OOOKDIO. 

•ffinitjr, such as fish and meat, etc. It is sufficient for peopit to 
do that in their stomachs. 

11. A light hand in making, a quick step in baking, maketh a 
good conscience for eating bread, puddings, and pies. 

12 Food for the well, is better than physic for the sick. Bad 
cooking is a , crime ; it k> the cause of dyspepsia, and a host of 
idler evib. A woman conficted of it ou^^ to be arraingtd ftA 



HOUSEEEEPINO. 



The great question when a young couple are going to be mar 
fied is, whether they shall keep house or board. The gentleman, 
IS a general rule, wishes to keep house, he is tired of boarding , 
moreover, he had anticipated so much enjoyment in a snug little 
house of their own, and so much pride and pleasure in seeing hii 
pretty Nellie at the head of his table, doing the honors to the 
choicest of his friends. 

But Nellie has quite different ideas; in the first place, she 
knows nothing about cooking. She has, with the help of hei 
mother, or the cook, made cake once or twice, or poissibly blano 
mange, which was very much praised ; but of the practical details 
required in the getting up of the most ordinary breakfast, dinner 
or supper, she knows nothing, and has not the remotest intention 
or inclination to become acquainted with them. 

The final result is, that they go to ** board" in some highly gen- 
teel establishment, where the prices are high in proportion to the 
gentility and lack of real comfort, and some fine morning the 
young gentleman wakes up to the knowledge that he is tied to a wife 
who doubles his expenses, but has added nothing to his happiness, 
ir at any rate, nothing to the real value and usefulness of his life. 

This is a matrimonial swindle. Girls ought not to marry until 
they are ready and willing to accept the position of head of a 
household, and capable of making a home what it should be to 
husband and children. 

If a man can find a woman to act as his mistress for her board 
and clothes, well and good — there is no law to prevent it ; but for 
A woman bearing the honored name of wife to hold so dependent 
and humilating a position, is fearful degradation. 

The marriage relation is one of reciprocal interests, duties i and 
responsibihties ; and no young lady ought to marry until she ii 



4 HOUSBEBBPIKG. 

willing to assume her share of them. True affection on the part 
of the husband will lighten, and make duties pleasures, butTvLi t- 
ever aspect they bear, she must not shrink from them. If she lia^ 
Dot received the training necessary to fit her for the position, u u 
ber misfortune ; but it will be her fault, if she does not try as far as 
possible to remedy the evil. 

Want of means constitutes no sort of reason why young married 
people should not go to housekeeping. What we spend on fool- 
iah and useless gewgaws and presents would, in nine cases out oi 
ten, if usefully applied, set them up in a style quite in accordance 
with their means, if not their inclination. 

But it is not for themselves they fear. They are willing, or at 
least they think so, to live together in an attic ; but society ! Well, 
what has society got to do with it? Society will not paj your 
butcher^s and grocer^s bills, nor care a copper whether they are 
paid or not. Society will eat ice-cream, oysters, and cake of your 
providing, but that is not what you are marrying for. 

You have chosen a comparatively poor man, your business is to 
adapt yourself to his circumstances, to i?\ake the most of his means 
in providing a pleasant home, and bringing up carefully and con- 
scientiously the children which may be given you. If society find 
you out, or if you find it worth while to fill up any of the chinks 
or interstices with occasional glimpses of the false, glittering, out- 
side world — good ! you will come back to your sweet home with 
80 much the more relish ; but do not marry it, do not sacrifice your 
own sense of duty, and the happiness and welfare of husband and 
family to it. 

Talk of happiness, — ^there is none like that of an intelligent, af- 
fectionate family circle. There is no pleasure, no enjoyment 
equal to that of a mother ministering to the wants, or gratifying 
the natural and innocent tastes of her children. The pleasure is all 
the greater, because it is a surprise. 

Young women very often dread the exacting care of a family, and 
expect to find wifely and maternal duties irksome and wearisome ; 
that is the reason why they would so willingly escape them, 
as they fancy, by boarding, and not having children. 

But unfortunately, or fortunafcly, God has managed it so thai 
we cannot take the pleasures of life without bearing its pains ; we 



HQirsBKEPfiiaiie. 

cannot ahirk a pliiin line of dafy, without incarriQg the penaltjr 
But we can, and do, by taking upon ourflelves bravely, its bup* 
dens, find an exaltation of womanhood, and a hight and depth of 
happiness, such as we never before dreamed of. 

JSxc^tions are said to exist to every general rule ; but there ar« 
very few to this* that when people marry, they ought to set ngiit 
about making a home of their own. If you can only afford two 
rooms, live in two rooms. If your means will compass a snial] 
bouse, but not a large one, then take the smaU. one, and be hap^y 
and thankfuL 

I would not give a wisp of straw for a young woman who doe^ 
not want, on her marriage^ to occupy her awn little domain ; who 
does not revel in anticipation over the contents of kitchen and 
closet, if there is only a small cook stove in one, and a set of 
delf in the other. But this suggests a matter of some in^itaiu^ 



KITCHEN FURNISHING. 

In selecting a house to live in, particularly if it is a smaU one, 
give the preference to a pleasant, sunny kitchen, which will at 
least look dean when it is clean, and into which it will not be disa- 
greeable to enter. 

As a general rale^ hvif as little as possible en first going to 
housekeeping ; it is easy to add more when experience has dis- 
covered to yoQ p^oisely what you. wa»t ; biil4l;y»u should kukilge 
in anyextxftvaganoev letk be in ^ kitehen lumiihidgk 

It is a: real pleasure to get a glimpse of an-ordeily- kitdieaaiid 
neat ek>aetf , newly fitted up with all the uaefid modern oov^ti^ 
ances for saving labor, and making it agveeabte, andas the ^tdiehs 
cost would not amount to move.- than oneexpensive earptt^ H is 
not worth while to do without thenu 

It is economical, moreover, to have all kitchen utensils of the 
best quality ; cheap pane, brushes, paik, earthenware and the ISkw, 
are not only an <* eyesore ^^ in a houses Nid.bad or disa^reeaUe to 
Gse,.but they ar» good for nothing ; they eteroaUr waefeiK|>lmir^ 



O HOUSBKXSFOra. 

wlule a really good ^urtide is not 011I7 taken better care of, bul 
will stand infinitely more of hard usage. 

Oil doth b the best material for covering a kitchen floor ; it u 
easily kept desan, and does not absorb the dirt and grease. 

Short, white muslin curtains to kitchen windows are considered 
*' nonsense ^ by some people, but they are tidy, and the cost and 
washing are not mudi. 

Of course the kitchen will be supplied with dresser, table with 
drawer, and ironing table. As to chairs, three and a common 
rocker are suffident ; but I would enliven the walls with a picture 
or two, if possible, and encourage the cook, or maid of all work, 
to have her monthly rose or pot of geranium in the window. 

Under the shelves of the kitchen dosets, it is a good plan to 
have narrow strips of board, in which nails or tacks can be in- 
serted, for the purpose of hanging up all sorts of small artides, 
audi as iron and wooden spoons, sugar and flour sifters, tin strain- 
ers, lemon squeezer, lemon grater, egg. beater, skewers, small 
sauce pans, cake turner, rolling pin, and such things as one is most 
likely to want, and which it is convenient to have in sight. 

The floors of all closets should be covered with oil-cloth, so that 
Ibey can be easily washed up, and kept neat and dean. 



HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT. 

Women are sometunes accused of managing too much, and 
sometimes of not managing at all ; but the most perfect system of 
management is, undoubtedly, that which outwardly betrays itself 
least, and in the results of which, there is not suspected to have 
been any management atrall. 

Begularity is the pivot upon which all household management 
tarDB ; where there is a lack of system there is a lack of comfort, 
that no amount of individual effort can supply. Forethought also 
is nieoessary, so that the work may be all arranged beforehand * 
done in its proper order, and at the right time. Never, except 
in eases of extreme emergency, allow Monday^s washing to be put 



off till Tneaday ; Taesday's ironing till Wednesday, or Wednee- 
da/s finishing up and "setting to rights,'' till Thursday. Leave 
Thursday for extra work ; or when that is not required, for rest* 
ing day, or half holiday, and as a preparation for the up stairs^ 
sweeping and dusting of Friday, and the downstairs' baking and 
ficmbbing of Saturday. 

Arrange work so as to save fhel as much as possible. Mix 
bread at night, so that it will be ready to bake with that " first 
fire " which always makes the oven hot in the morning. Prepare 
fruit over night, so that pies or other things can be quickly made 
and baked immediately after Prepare hashes for breakfast, ovei 
night. Have the kitchen and dining room put in order before re* 
tiring to rest. Have kindlings and whatever is needed for build* 
ing fires laid ready, and the fire in the kitchen raked down, so 
that it can be built up in the shortest possible space of time. This 
is not only a saving in the morning, but will be found nseihl in 
case of illness in the night, when a fire is often required at a mo« 
ment's notice. 

Try to buy in as large quantitieB as possible, so as to save tlie 
perpetual runnin^r out to the grocery. SappUes on hand also en- 
able the housekeeper to provide a more varied table, with fiur 
greater economy than is possible where every thing is bought by 
the half a pound, more or less. 

Every family that can possibly find means to do it, or a place 
to properly keep the articles, should commence winter with fiiel, 
potatoes, apples, floor, and butter, enough to last till Spring. A 
good supply of hominy, rice, farina, Indian meal, preserved fish, 
and other staples, including sugar, should also be laad in, not for- 
getting a box of raisins, one of currants, a third of soap, and a 
fourth of starch. 

There is such an immense saving in soap well dried, that it is 
iurprising so many housekeepers content themselves with buy* 
mg it in damp bars. Starch also is frightfiiUy wasted by quarter* 
and half pound purchases, which are frequently all absorbed atone 
time, by careless girls, in doing the washing for a small family. 

But in most American families, the largest amount of waste, 
probably, takes place in the use of fuel. Heretofore, fuel of all 
kinds has been comparatively che jp, and very little supervision has 



been mu tnmd over its .'«se. At pvesetit Tatea however, it it aa 
itttm of ooniidemble importanoe ; and it is quite time that seryanti 
were taught how to employ it to the best advantage. 

Ir nine out of ten kitchens, when there is any cooking to be dona 
he range is made red hot ; when the cooking is done» the fire it 
eft to go down to ashes, and is then raised by means of a wastelol 
1^ of kindhi^ wood. When no cooking is going on, and a large 
fire is not needed, the dampers will frequently be left open, and 
the fu^ allowed to blase itself out up the chimney instead of being 
kept in reserve fi>r actual service. 

The general principle of construction upon which American 
kitchen stoves and ranges is based, renders them either very eoo- 
nomiiial, or very much otherwise, according to the way they are man- 
aged. After the fire is first built in an orc&iary stove, or range, the 
dampers ought all to be closed up and not opened again during the 
day, except while broiling, or something of that sort. If the grate 
is kept dear, and the fire repl^shed with a small quantity of coal, 
before it begins to get low, both the oven, and the top of the range 
wiU be kept sufficiently hot for any kind of cooking, and it will be 
d<me aU the better for being done somewhat more slowly, than is 
oustomary with the well meaning, but terribly blundering, and 
irresponsible race of wild Irish girls, who officiate as the high 
priestesses of our domestic altars. 

The strictest attention on the part of a house-keeper, is necessa- 
ry, to tee that certain articles are kept for their proper use ; for 
mstance, that the dish doth is not used for a floor doth, that the 
napkins are not used to wipe up the dishes, the dish towels as 
dusters, a new broom to sweep out the back yard, and ^e best new 
enamelled sauce pan, for melting down grease. 

Where the lady of the house attends partly to her own work, 
she will naturally see to all these things ; but where it is left wholly 
lo servants, there are always complaints of missing articles, and an 
in^ctios of the kitchen, or ironing table drawer, would generally 
iff ing them all to light, although in a state almost unrecognizable, 
firom dirt, and their contiguity to whitening, hair oil, candle grease, 
combs and brushes, and other articles, all of which it is firand 
** handy ^ to keep in a drawer in the kitchen, with mats, table dotht« 
towels, and other things destined for family use. 



HO08EKXBPINCk 'W 

It 18 hardly necessary after this to sav that a Kitdien being onoe 
proiided with neceisary and convenient articles for cleaning and 
oooking, the presiding genius should be held to a strict accounta- 
bility K)T t^em. Pudding cloths should be forthcoming whenever 
wanted, — dry, dean, and free from stains ; towels, napkins, pans, 
bowls, and cooking utensils, should be kept strictly to their uses 
and not pat away till perfectly clean and dry. 

Ironing sheets, blankets, skirt board, bosom board, iron holder, 
nibber, and the like, should be kept smoothly folded in the drawer 
of the ironing table, when not in use. 

The shelves of kitchen, dining-room, and other closets, should 
be covered with fresh paper, neatly cut oat on the edges, once in 
two weeks, and dasted down twice a week. 

Pot dosets, safes, and refrigerators, should be thoroughly scrub 
jed out every week, and the latter aired every day. 

Gtiod brooms and brushes will last a long time if care is taken 
of ^m. When first bought they should be allowed to stand ii 
cold water for twelve hours, and then thoroughly dried before asing 
When not in use, they should be hung up by a loop of twine, or 
cord, so that the weight may not rest on the edge of the splinters, 
and break them. Four large brooms should be provided, one for 
the kitchen, one for the parlor, one for the sleeping rooms, and one 
for the ikmily, or *' living^^ room. A '' whisk^^ will be required 
for every room in the house, besides one for the hall. 

As soon as the kitchen broom is worn down so as to render it 
nofit to sweep the floor with ease and comfort, take it for the cel- 
lar, door steps, and back yard ; take die one from the sitting room 
for the kitchen, the one from the parlor to the sitting room, and 
get a new one for the parlor. 

Exact punctuality in serving the meals, and punctual attendance 
at them ; it is oftener the fault of the family, than the servants, that 
meals are served at irregular hours. Where the members make a 
practice of sitting down any time, and food is kept waiting until 
it suits their pleasure or convenience to partake of It, irrespect- 
ive of household necessities, servants, or any one else, will nat- 
orally become careless and neglectful. 

HOUSEHOLD MEMORANDA. 

Dried herbs should be tied each 8eT)arately in a paper baff, and 



10 nonsEKKEPiva. 

hung against fhe wall in the stom-room. Mint, pennyioyalt oat- 
nip, sage, thyme, smmner-savory and parsley, are all good t« 
have in the honse. 

Parsley shonld be bnnched before it goes to seed, and hnng ap 
to dry. In a week, or two, it may be put in paper bags, and is 
ready tot nse, for sonp, stnfiQng. or fricassee. 

PIECE BAG6. 

Ont of an old calico dress make three piece bags, and label eaeh 
*ne of them with its written name npon a smaU square piece of 
white mnslin, which must be sewn npon th» side of the bag. One 
should be the '* rag-bag," another the ** white piece-bag," a third 
the "colored piece-bag,"-— they will be found very usefnL 

DUSTERS; 

Proyide a duster, as well as a feather brush, and a whisk broonii 
for every room in the house, and see that' they are kept in their 
place, when not in use. 

KITCHEN H0LDBB8. 

Make three kitchen holders, one to put away with the ironing 
apparatus, two others, to be hung up, one eacl^ side, under the 
kitchen mantle piece, so as to be ready for lifting pots and kettles 
off the fire, or taking hold of the hot handle of a sauce pan, or 
skillet. Small squares of old, or new carpet, are best, with an 
inner lining of old cloth, and an outer one of dark twilled cotton, 
which may either be sewed to the edge of the carpet, or the whole 
may be bound with worsted binding. Add a loop to hang it up by. 

PAFEB AND STRING. 

When parcels are brought to the houue, take the nice white, or 
brown tissue paper, in which the goods have been wrapped, fold it 
aud put it away in a drawer, with the string tied round it, to be 
ready for use in case of emergency. 

IfENDINO. 

^ When you put the clear clothes away for the fiunily, examine 
eTery piece, and see if a stiing, or a button needs replacing, or a 



HOUlEKEEPOra. 

fraetnre reqaiies mending. Pile all together, and repair them al 
osktt, remembering that a ttitoh in time saves nine. 

MMNDING STOCJUMGS. 

Mtmding stooUngs for a laige fomil^ is a somewhat onerous^ 
and not altogether agreeable duty. As soon as the daughtdn are 
old enough they should beset to mending their own; bnteven 
vhen, tbere is sometimes a large pile for " mother's " work basket 
Do not hurry them; however, mend them conscientiouslyy if it is 
only one pair at a time. Have needle and darning cotton of the 
proper size, ikake a large area in every direction beyond the hole» 
leave loops at each end of the thread, as it is drawn out, for shrink- 
age — and darti carefkilly and extensively over all the thin places. 
Hose mended in this way will not require the process more than 
twice, during tneir existence, provided the quality in the first 
place was the best. Cheap hose are not wortii buying at alL 

RAnrr days. 

Make the house look as bright as possible inside, have some> 
thing good for tea, put on a pretty dress, light up early, romp 
with the children^ tell them stories, and determine at least to 
have sunshine in the house, if you cannot have it outside. 

TAOKBXQ AWAT SUMMBB OB WINTBB CLOTHBS. 

Before pocking away summer or winter clothes, devotertt day to 
an examination of them; mend, and clean any spots oif that may 
require it, brush, and shake them well, fold up smoothly, and 
sprinkle between every fold a little ^um camphor, unless you are 
so fortunate as to have cedar chests, and then you will not need 
it. Sprinkle a little gum camphor also on the bottom of common 
trunks or chests, pack closely, filling up all the crevices with small 
articles, such as stockings, gloves, scarfs, hoods and the like, re- 
serving the body part of the box for the larger garments. 

Nice dresses, velvet cloaks, opera cloaks, furs, and the like, 
should be folded in sheets, or towels, pinned tightly down, and 
be placed in the tray% or hollc w parts of trunks, by themselves, 
ifpoBsiblA. 



12 



HOUSSKBBPaie. 



OAKB BOX. 



Haye a Japanned box, or large jar, for cake, which will itiut 
down tight. Cover it with a linen cloth, which should be put in 
the wash once in two weeks. Empty the box, scald it out, and 
let it diy in the snn, or before the fire, every week* 

OHAMBEB, MANTEL, AND TOUST OOVXBS. 

White Marseilles, thin piqite or Allendale qnilting, edged with 
white ball, or twisted fringe, makes nice covers for toilet stands, 
or chamber mantels, especially where cottage furniture is used. 
If the furniture is very handsome black walnut, or rosewood, 
elegant mantel covers may be made by tacking patent maroon 
velvet on a thin board, and edging it with bullion fringe. 

TO CLEAN LOOEINa GLASSES. 

Divide a newspaper in two halves, fold up one in a small square 
and dip it in cold water. Rub the glass first with the wet half of 
the paper, and dry with the other. Fly specks^ and all other 
dirty marks will disappear as if by magio. 

TO TAKE OUT 60OBCH. 

If a shirt bosom, or any other article has unfortunately beei» 
scorched in ironing, lay it where bright sunshine will fall straight 
upon it. It will take it entirely out, leaving it olean and white 
as snow. 

LABEL GHILDBKN. 

Into the crowns of the hats or bonnets of little children, sew a 
square of writing paper, stating age, and residence. This will 
save them from any danger of being lost. 

WASH RAas. 

Small squares of crash hemmed, make very nice wash rags, or 
small, coarse tea napkins, fringed on the sides; very good ones 
may also be made out of the best part of old dinner napkins, or 
tablecloths. Be careful always to supply them to every sleeping* 
room with the towels, and see that they are changed once a week. 



HOUSBKEBPINO. ^^ 

xnOHT CLOTHES. 

Never wear anytbiog at night that yon hare worn daring the 
day, nor during the day, that yon have worn at night. 

TO PUT OUT FIRB. 

In all snch oases, great promptitude and qnidmess is neees- 
sary. The thing to be done is, to crush it oat ; either with rags, 
mats, blankets, or whatever else is handy. 

If the fire is in a chimney, fire a pistol into it, or pnt salt on it, 
and close up the draft of the fire-place by pinning a quilt np over 
it. This last precaution alone will generally pre vent danger, un- 
less there should happen to be a high wind. 

SHEETS. 

When sheets are beginning to wear in the middle, sew the sel- 
vage sides together, tear them in two, and hem down the sides ; 
they will last enough longer to pay for the troubley especially at 
present price of muslin. 

PAT AS YOU GO. 

Keep no books, and never run accounts with stores ; pay far 
what you buy when you buy i<, and so save much money and trouble 
and prevent many disagreeable mistakes. 

HOW TO CLEAR A TABLE. 

Collect all the food together first, and dispose of it, neatly and 
carefully. Put all the spoons together, all the forks together, and 
all the knives together. If you have a small pitcher partly full 
of warm water on the table, put the knives into that, blades 
down. Scrape the plates clean, and empty all the slops from the 
tea and coffee cups into the slop bowl. Have ready your clean 
light wooden tub^ two thirds fiiU of hot water, little mop, piece 
of soap, and tin pan of warm water for rinsing. Wash the glasses 
first, with a little soap, and rinse them, then the spoons, then the 
cups and saucers, then the silver forks, then the plates, lastly, the 
larger dishes. Dry quickly with nice 1 arge fine linen crash towels. 
Be carefal not to put the handle of knives into hot water, at 



14 



HOnSEKEBPIKa. 



silver knives where they can touch the forks, as that will scratch 
them. The quicker the whole operation is performed, the 
brighter and nicer the ware will be. 



MATTRESSES. 

Mattresses are used universally now in preference to feather 
beds ; and to save trouble, some people straighten the clothes 
over them just as they rise. This is very bad, they ought to be 
turned every day, and exposed to the air some time before the 
bed is made up. 



HINTS ON ECONOMY. 

Pboyidb on Satubday for Monday, so as not to take up the 
fire with cooking, or time in running errands, any more than is 
possible on washing day. 

Wait till articles, fruit, fish, poultry and vegetables, are in 
full season, before purchasing. They are then not only much 
lower in price than when first brought to market, but fiiner in 
quality and flavor. 

Outside garments, bonnets, cloaks, hats, shawls, scarfs and 
the like, will last clean and fresh much longer, if the dust is care- 
fully removed from them by brushing and shaking after return- 
ing from a ride or a walk. 

When tour apples begin to rot, pick the specked ones out 
carefully ; stew them up with cider and sugar, and fill all your 
empty self-sealing cans. In this way you may keep in nice apple 
iauce till apples come again. 

Pickle or preserve jars should be washed in lukewarm oi 
nold water, and dried in the sun or near the fire. Hot watex 
cracks the polished surface of the inside, and renders them unfit 
for their specific use. 



H0U8EKEBFINO. 15 

Nbtbb allow childbbx to eat butter with meftt or gravy ; it 
i8 lK>tli wasteful and ugarious. 

Hot buckwheat cakes will go farther and last longer than 
ny other single article of food. A celebrated Jadge declared 
that he oonld remain in court all day, without feeling a symptom 
of hunger, after a breakfast of buckwheat cakes. 

A 0TBW is not a bad dish for a family dinner, onee a week; 
make it of good meat, and savory with sweet herbs, and the most 
fastidious will not object to it. 

BiSB BAKLT on fine summer mornings, and throw all the win- 
dows of the house open, so that it may exchange its olose atmos- 
phere for the cool, fresh air. Have the work done before the 
heat of the day comes on, and save it as much as posslblo during 
the warmest weather. 



Take cabb oe the food that ii brought Into fho house, and 
see that none of it is wasted; but do not be always on the lookout 
for cheap things. Beans are cheap, and very good sometimes ; 
com meal is cheap too, and even more available, because it can 
be made into a great variety of dishes, but people would not care 
to live on beans and com meal all the time, because they are 
cheap. Eating is intended as a means of enjoyment, as well as oi 
sustaining life ; and it is right to avail ourselves of the abundant 
resources provided, as far^ as we can consistently. 

Use tea leaves, or short, freshly out grass, to sprinkle upon 
carpets before sweeping. It will freshen up the colors, and save 
the usual cloud of dust. 

Have evebtthino clean, on Saturday night, something nice 
for tea, and also for Sunday morning breakfiaist. Let the approach 
of the Sabbath be anticipated in all thiugs, with pleasure. Stay 
at home with the childron on Sabbath evening, and finish the day 
with a sacred concert. 



Id 



HOUSEKEEPING. 



Aixow NO HOLES, or oomers in the house, in diair«i% oB 
shelveB, or in closets, for the stowing away of dirty rags, old hot- 
ties, grease-pots, and broken crockery. When bottles are emptied, 
let them be cleaned and put down in the cellar, nntil they art 
wanted. Harbor no dirty giease-pots, and when an article if 
broken past recovery, throw it away at once ; there is no nse in 
keeping it to collect dust, and oobwebs. 

Makb a point of examining safe, reMgentor, closets, drawers^ 
and all receptacles for food, and kitchen articles, at least as often 
as once a week, either Saturday, or washing day. Look into 
pickle Jars, bread Jars, cake jars, butter tubs, apple, and potato 
barrels, everything in fact, examine their condition, see if they are 
kept covered and clean, and that food pat away is not left to 
spoil, or be wasted. 

The fewer servants the BBiTER^two requires a third to 
wait upon them, and no on ad infinitum. Have good servants how- 
ever, pay good wages, and make them responsible for their work. 

Ir IT IS POSSIBLE, and when there is a will there is a way, call 
your household together, after breakfast every morning, and have 
domestic worship, be it ever so short. A verse of a hymn, a pas- 
sage from the Bible, and Just a few words of heartfelt prayer, and 
praise, sets everything right for the day, smooths raffled tempers, 
and puts the domestic machine in nicely ranning order. It is also 
no bad preparation for the temptations and annoyances of busi- 
ness. 

Before swEEPma a room, have the ftimitare, and especially 
all the small articles, dusted aud removed. This keeps them 
looking fresh, and new. 

Wear pretty morniKq dresses ; they are inexpensive, and 
easily preserved from iigury, by a large calico apron enveloping 
the skirt of the dress, and sleeves of the same kind, gathered into 
a band, top, and bottom, and extending over the elbows. These 
ean be slipped on and off in a minute, and with a bib added to 



aOU&SXSSFXKG. 

U*e apron in fronts ftffoidB complete proteotioni while engaged in 

dusting, making pastry, and the like. 

Always hay^. toub tablb served neatly, and then if friendi 
'happen in/' you will not be ashamed to ask them to share yoof 
meal. Be hospitable, if it is only a omst, and a cnp of cold 
water ; if it is clean and good of its kind, there is no reason to 
blush for it ; the hearty welcome will make amends for the ab- 
sence of rich yiandfl 

If CHTT.DRiCN WANT AifTTHiNO between meals, which they 
should not, give them a cracker, or an apple; do not encourage 
an hxegolar and unhealthy appetite, by giying them pie, oake^ or 
gingerbread* 



BULES FOB EATING. 

1. Eat slowly as if it were a pleasure you desired to prolong, 
rather than a duty to be got rid of as quickly as possible. 

2. Don't bring your prejudices, your dislikes, your annoy- 
ances, your^ast misfortunes, or future forebodings, to the table 
— ^they would spoil the best dinner. 

3. Bespect the hours of meals, you have no right to injure the 
temper of the cook, destroy the flavor of the viands, and the com- 
fort of thefiunily, by your want of punctuality. 

4. Have as much variety in your food as possible, but not 
many dishes served at one time. 

5. Find as little fault with the food prepared as possible, and 
praise whenever you can. 

6. Finally, be thankful if you have not meat, that you have 
at least an appetite, and hope for something more and better in 
the future. 



TECB USE OF FUEL. 

There ii no department of housekeepiug in which our national 
spirit of waste and extravagance is more clearly exemplifled, than 



18 HOUttSKiBSPING. 

in our use of fuel. Even the enonnoas sAvKnoe in prices has led 
to no retrenchment or reform in this respect. Coal and -wood are 
)ust as recklessly as ever shovelled into the cellar. Bridget makes 
the same blazing fireSy subject to no supervision, except a faint 
general direction, to " sift the cinders every morning ;" and 
Bridget says '* yes'm'' as nsnal, bnt there beiug nobody to see, or 
know whether she does or not, in nineteen cases ont of twenty, 
she does not do it. 

Every little while through the day, the fires ftre laked down, 
and firesh coal put on, the dampers of stove or range left wide 
open, and for so much cooking as a cup of tea, or a dish of pota- 
toes, a firesh fire built with range made red hot, and as much fuel 
wasted as would have cooked a thanksgiving dinn«r. 

OBATHFIHKg. 

These are generally considered as requiring a great deal of coal, 
and so they do, under the usual system of management in this 
country. But let us see how they manage grate fires in England. 

The grate is cleared, with the exception of a few scattering 
cinders, which forms a sort of body, for the paper, which is torn 
up in small pieces, and crushed down, and the wood, which is 
neatly and compactly laid " across and across." When the larg- 
est and best cinders remaining are picked out and thrown on, a 
match is applied, cinders are still put on wherever they are needed 
to catch the blaze, and when the wood is burnt down, and the 
cinders are all a-glow, fresh coal is used to fiU up the grate. The 
ashes are then sifted, the cinders, which are fine and small, 
damped, and when the fire has burned red through, without the 
MM of the llowoTf the wet cinders are thrown on the top. In this 
way a grate fire will last through a whole day with once replen- 
ishing, and keep a room warmer than we do, without blaze, ouz 
frequent use of the blower, and reckless waste of fiieL 

KITCH£N RANOBS. 

Nearly all of these are built on the air tight principle, and 
should be kept elosed up tight all the time. The fire will be fo und 
to bum equally weU, though more moderately ; the oven will be 
always hot, and oooking can be done slowly, at it ought^ on the 



HOUSEKXSPINa. 19 

top of the nrngo, with mnoh leas tronblo, «nd infliiitely bettef 
than if '* roshed throngh," at a red heat. 

PABLOB HEATBBS. 

These new heaters are very good for small honsM ; we need one 
for years, with great satisfaction, and foond it quite as efficient, 
and much safer, more conyeuient and more economical than a 
fomace. 

- Parlor heaters are fitted into the wall, and take np no more 
room than a grate ; they should be attended to with regularity, 
and then the fire wO hardly oyer need to go out; once in two 
months is quite as often as it requires to be made up fresh. At 
night, wetted cinders shoyld be thrown on the fire so as to thickly 
cover it while it is good, and the dampers shut up close ; these 
will keep the fire almost intact till the next morning, when a 
thorough raking down will be needed. A parlor heater properly 
managed, bums out about as much coal as one large grate or two 
•mall stoves ; but excepting in the very coldest weather, it will 
comfortably heat the whole house. 

gPBINO FUBL. 

Coke is excellent fuel for spring and fall, if it is earefhlly and 
rightly used ; but if it is mixed with hard coal and thrown on a 
kitchen fire by a reckless servant, at discretion, it becomes equally 
extravagant and useless. Coke makes a bright, hot fire, kindles 
easily, and goes out easily ; but it can also be made to last a long 
while, by packing it a little on top, and negleeting to rake it down. 
This is the method for early spring, when fires are required in the 
morning and evening, but not much through the sunshiny part of 
the day. 

A great saving is e£feoted in spring fael, by putting the '' slack^' 
firom coal, in a heap by itself, and with it, ashes from which the 
cinders have not been taken. Dampen the heap occasionally with 
a little water, and add to it, whenever there is material. Doing 
this through the coldest weather will form a sort of compost^ 
hard and insoluble, which can be broken apart, and frtmishes 
splendid friel for spring grate fires, or for parlor beaten. 



SOtJPS. 



STOCKS. 

Stock is fhe fonndation of soupsy and alio of good graTies, 
Banoes, and the like. A French cook can do nothing without the 
stock pot, and keeps it supplied in a way that is both nseful, and 
economical. 

Stock can be made to keep for a considerable time, and be nsed 
for many purposes, if occasional additions are made, and the whole 
of the liquor re-scalded. It may be made from meat, or from bones, 
or from both, or it may be made from bones with the addition of 
refrise meat, the trimmings of regular Joints. Chicken and tur- 
key bones may be thrown in, and wiU help to enrich, and give 
flaTor to the preparation. Any kind of bones with a little meat 
upon them, will make good stock, if they are simmered, not boiled, 
long enough, and beef, mutton, yeal, poultry, and other bones 
may be stewed together. In stewing them down, use the liquor 
if you have it, in which other meat has been boiled, so that no- 
thing may be wasted. Shank bones, trimmings from chops, any 
thing of this sort may be thrown in, simmered all day, then pour- 
ed into a Jar, and the fiftt removed the next morning. It is then 
frequently a Jelly, and ready to conyert into soup, with the aid 
of herbs and vegetables — or kept for other uses. Stock sours very 
soon after the vegetables have been boiled in it, so it is best not 
to put the vegetables in till needed for soup. 

If your stock is made of meat, or partly of meat, cut it up fine, 
and always put it on in cold water, if the water is hard, put a 
pinch of soda in it. This will extract all the pieces of the bones 
and meat. If on the contrary, you want to boil meat, and retain 
its pieces, put it on to boiling water. [See the Principles ci 
Cooking.] 



21 



ROOK FROM BOHSSL 



Take the bones of a sirloin of bee^ break them into half a 
dozen pieces or more, put them in the stock pot with a gallon of 
oold water; and let them simmer gently for fire or six honis. 
Then take it off, stnun it— it ought to make about two quarts — 
and set it aside for sereial hours, or over night. When oold, 
skim off the £st. Then return it to the pot with a turnips and a 
large carrot cut up in two or three pieces, two onions, a bunch of 
sweet herbs, a sprig or two of parsley, and a head of celery if it 
can be obtained, or a teaspoonJfol of celeiy-seed tied in a piece of 
muslin. Let these simmer together gently for two honrs^ adding 
boiling water to keep the quantity two quarts, and putting in 
also while boiling a little salt and a large lump of sugar ; when 
done, strain it off into ajar, and you have a good stock, which 
can be kept several days, in a cool place in winter, or by being 
boiled oyer each day, in summer. 

STOCK WITHOirr ICBAT. 

Fat into a stew pan ten carrots, as many turnips and onions 
ent in small pieces, two lettnceSi two sticks of celery, a handful 
of chenril, half a cabbage and a parsnip cut in slices ; add to 
these three ounces of butter and a quart of water ; stew them till 
the liquid is nearly dried up, and then fQl tiie stew pan with 
water ; add a quart of peas, green or dried, according to the sea- 
son, two chives, some pepper and salt ; stew slowly three or four 
bonis and strain through a colander for usot 

BBAH STOCK. 

Put a large handfhl of bran into a quart of water, boll and 
leave to simmer till the quantity is reduced to hal£ This wiU do 
excellently for the thickening of meat soup. It will make very 
good soup of itself, if onions, salt and pepper, with a few vege- 
tables, are mixed in it. It will also be good sweetened with 
molasses or honey. 

cow HEEL STOCK. 

k oow heel In two quarts of water will make first rate stock, 



22 



SOUPS. 



bat do not get boiled cow beels. The othen take more boiling^ 
bat make mach licber stock, and may be ased moie than onoe. 

VOVR QUABTS OF BBOWK STOCK. 

Heat an iron pot and rab the bottom with garlic. Put in ten 
poands of shin of beef, fresh killed, and a pint of water; let it 
stand by the fire for an hoar, then add three qoartera of a pound 
of lean ham, three onions, three carrots, a small head of celeiy, 
four cloves, six aUspioe, ten peppercorns, a table-spoonfdl oi 
brown sugar, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonftil of salt, a 
large black onion, and six quarts of water. Simmer and skim 
frequently for six hours. Strain into an earthen dish, and when 
cold, remoYC the fat; a fine hair sieve dipped in oold water is 
good to strain it with. 

FOUB QUABTS OF WHITB STOCK. 

Put into an iron pot a knuckle of veal, about seven pounds, m 
cow heel, and an old fowl ; add a turnip, two onions, a lettuce, a 
blade of mace, quarter of a nutmeg, half a pound of lean ham, a 
teaHSpoonful of salt, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and sic quarts 
of water. Simmer gently, and skim frequently, for six hours. 
Strain into an earthen dish, and when cold, take off the fat. 

OOHMON SOUP. 

Take the neck, shanks, scraps of fresh meat, or old fowls. Let 
your meat, beef, mutton, fowls, or game, be cut into small pieces^ 
and the bones cracked up well. Put the pieces into a pot and 
cover them with as much water as will stew them into rags ; stew 
them very slowly, then pour in some boiling water, and keep the 
soup boiling to within a few minutes of serving. Skim it entirely 
free from grease. Take out whatever you wish to set away for 
the next day before you put in the vegetables. Now cut up vege- 
tables (previously cooked by themselves), in it slice potatoes, 
okra, turnips, carrots, any vegetables you like,* or rice or barley. 
If there is any vegetable, — for instance, onions, cabbages, or to- 
matoes,— which you wish to give distinctlYe character to youi 
soup, use that vegetable entirely, in connection with potatoes 
and okra, which give consistency without any yeiy disosznibit 



•OUFf. 



23 



taste. If your sonp lacks riolmessi a few spoonftils of draim 
butter will help ; if consistenoy, some gelatine may be dissolved 
in it. A bonqnet of sweet herbs is indispensable. A rich soup ki 
sometimes flavoied with wine >r catsnp. It is as well to ofEei 
these articles to each person, as also the castor at the table. yep> 
mioelli or macaroni may be need as a substitute for okra. 

SOUP OB STOCK FROM OTSfE POUITD OF BBEF. 

Take one pound of lean beef, free from fat; mince it finely and 
add to it its own weight of cold water; heat it yery slowly 
to boiling; two or three hours is not too much, let it boil briskly 
a minute or two, strain it through a toweL Mix the liquid with 
salt and other seasoning; tinge it darker with roast onions or 
burnt sugar. Dr. Liebig says this forms the best soup that can 
be prepared from one pound of flesh. 

VISA SOUPS. 

A Tariety of good soups can be made of fish by stewing them 
down in the same manner as meat; y ith the same addition of y^ge- 
tables and herbs. If the skin is coarsC; strip it off before ushig 
the fishy and when stewing skim off the oily particles. 

WINTBB SOUP. 

Take a shin of beef; boil it in two gallons of water down to one 
gallon; ponx it oat after remoying the bones, and let it cooL 
This will be one mass of jelly; from which as much can be taken 
daily as may be needed in the quantity of soap desired. Stew the 
yegetables or cook the rice, split peaS; beanS; and add all together 
with as much water as may be necessary; and let it boil well. 

aORBBL SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

Wash a handfid of sorrel; add some cherrll; lettucC; and leeks; 
ehqp all very fine, and stew with salt and butter ; when the yege* 
tables are done enough; add some stock without meat or water. 
Let it stew again, and before you serve; add the yolks of three or 
four eggs well beateu; with some cream or good mUk; taking care 
it does not boil after the eggs are added. Season to taste. Sorrel 
IS prepared for winter in jars, first chopped; then pounded and 
s e as on ed. It must be closely coyered. 



24 



ioun. 



BABBIT 80UP. 



Cat up yonr mbMfe and put it into a sonp-pot, with b luun boM^ 
a bnnoh of iweet herba, a bay loaf, an onion stiiok with eloveSi 
some whole pepper, and let it simmer till the meat is tender, then 
ont off the meat into neat sqoaies, return the bones and trimming! 
into the sonp, and let it simmer till the meat is in rags; then 
strahi it, and thicken it with flour and butter, mixed on the fire^ 
without being browned; add a pint of highly seasoned stoek, or 
if desired a pint of red wine— port is best— eeason to tasteand let 
all simmer together with the meat that was cut ofL Serra hot. 

8PBINO SOUP. 

Cut an equal quantity of canots, turnips, onions and leeks; 
stew them in some good stock; then add some French beans, 
peas, bean cucumbers, asparagus tops, lettuces, sorrel and chervil ; 
add a little bit of white sugar ; let these reduce to nearly a glaze; 
then add tliem to some stock thickened with green peas rubbed 
through a tammy. The soup might be thickened, to vary it, with 
asparag^ rubbed through a tammy ; in this case all the yegetables 
should be strained of^ and some asparagus tops served only In 
the soup. 

SOUP 70B DHTALIDS. 

Boll two pounds of lean veal and a quarter of a pound of pearl 
barley in a quart of water very slowly, until it becomes of th« 
consistency of cream. Pass it through a fine sleye and salt it to 
taste. Flavor it with celerynseed, if the taste be liked, or use 
fresh celery, if in season, — a very small quantity would suffice. 
It should simmer very slowly. This soup is yery nourishing. 

ouhbo. 

Take a large fowl, cut in pieces, beat up and fry yery biawni 
and make with it a highly seasoned and rich gravy. Cat into it a 
half gallon of tender green okra, as many ripe tomatoes, and 
pour on three pints of boiling water ; boil until the yegetables are 
of the softest consistency, and chicken in rags. Stir in a heaping 
toblespoon of young sassafras leaves, dried and redaoed to a 



(UyjjPB. 25 

powder. Strain into jour dish hot. When weD made this will 
ahnost rope like candy. Pepper, onions, and sweet herbs are 
used piofUselj in this soup, with salt to savor it. 

WHITK SOUP.. 

Fdt four or five turnips, four leeks, two heads of celery, wash- 
ed and sliced, into the saucepan with a piece of butter and a 
knuckle of ham ; add a quart of stock, and let all stew together tQ) 
§mder When nearly done, put in a pint of milk and some small 
pieces of bread ; boil up two or three times, strain it and serve it 
hot. 

MOCK TURTLB SOUP. 

Parboil a calf 's head divided, and cut all the meat in small pieces ; 
then break the bones and boil them in some beef broth ; fry some 
shalots in butter, add flour to thicken, and stir it in ; skim it care- 
fhlly while it boils up, and add a pint of white wine ; let it simmer 
till the meat is perfectly tender, then put in some chives, parsley, 
basil, salt, cayenne, soy, and mushroom catsup to your taste, ana 
boil it in for ten minutes ; squeeze a little lemon juice into your 
tureen, pour your soup on it, and serve with force meat balls. 

sheepVhbad soup. 

Cut the liver and lights into pieces, and stew them in four quarts 
of water, with some onions, carrots, and turnips, half pound of 
pearl barley, pepper, salt, cloves, and a little marjoram, parsley 
and thyme. Stew all these until nearly done enough, then put in 
the head and boil it until quite tender, then it should be taken 
out and everything strained from the liquor. Let this stand tiU 
cool, then take off the fat, and thicken it with butter and floui 
in the same way as mock turtle. A glass of wine may be put into 
the tureen if desired, before pouring in the soup. 

CONCORD SOUP. 

Three pounds of neck of beef, one cowheel, one pennyworth of 
eanots and turnips, part of a head of celery, one bunch of tied up 
fweet herbs, four onions browned, one pint of peas, all put to- 

2 



S6 BOUSBKBKFINCI. 

gA^er into three quarts of water. After boiling for iome hointi 
lo be well strained before serving np 

CALF^S HBAD SOUP BBOWNED. 

Strain the liquor the head was boiled in, and set it away unt& 
next day ; take off all the fat ; fiy an onion in a little butter in 
the loap pot, dredge in a little flour, stir until brown ; cut up two 
carrots two onions, two turnips, and whatever is left of the head, 
ic inch pieces, put them in with the stock, a dozen cloves, peppei 
and salt ; boil it about two hours ; braid up a little flour and but- 
ter, stir it into the soup, and boil about ten minutes ; add, if de- 
sired, half a tumbler of red wine ; serve hot. 

BROWN GRAVY SOUP. 

Cut a few onions in pieces, fry them in dripping brown ; cut 
three pounds of beef in pieces, brown this also, stirring and tam- 
ing both meat and onions as they fry, then put them in the sauce- 
pan with a carrot, a turnip cut small, and a little celery if you 
have it, or two seeds of celery, add three quarts of water to this, 
stir all together with a little pepper and salt ; simmer very slowly 
and skim off what rises ; in three or four hours the soup will be 
clear. When served, add a little vermicelli, which should have 
previously been boiled in water ; the liquor ^ould be carefully 
poured off through a sieve. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Take two large old fat chickens ; chop up the pieces and mash the 
bones. Put in a few slices of boiled ham if not too strong. Stew 
slowly until in rags. Then pour on three quarts of boiling water, 
and boil it down to half a gallon. Chop up the chickens^ hearts, 
the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, and stir, with a tea cup half full 
of grated bread crumbs, into a cup of rich sweet cream ; strain the 
soup, return it to the kettle with a bouquet of heibs, boil Ave min- 
utes, stir in the cream, etc., and take it off quickly. Any ppu; oi 
fowl or game may be made in the same way. Instead o( the 
thickenmg prepared as above, you may boil in it some ricc^ or 
vermicelli, or macaroni, previously simmered until soft. 



•GUM. S7 



OT8TBR SOUP.-^l. 

Take a Bbin of Teal, put it in a pot with tliree quarta of walar, 
and a head of celerj, pepper, and salt ; boil it three hours ; then 
•train it all through a sievn ; add a small piece of butter, braided 
in a table-spoonful of flour ; stir it in and give it one boil ; hav* 
read; washed out of the liquor, one gallon of oysters ; strain the 
liquor into the soup, let it boil up, then put in the oysters with a 
spoonful of mushroon sauce ; give it one boil and send it to the 
table very hot. 

OT8TER 80UP.-~2. 

Slice some onions, fry them a light brown in a quarter of a 
pound of butter, then put them on the fire to stew in some stock, 
88 much as required for your 80up,~^about half an hour is suf^ 
ficient ; before you serve, add two or three dozen of oysters, with 
their liquor strained. Thicken with the yolks of three eggs, and 
season it with white pepper, mace, and salt; it must not boil 
after the eggs are put in, but thicken like custard. Any kind of 
good broth or stock makes the foundation. Some add to this be- 
fore the eggs are put in, a glass of white wine. 

OYSTER SOUP. — 3. 

Mix one pint of water with whatever liquor you can drain from 
two quarts of fresh oysters. When this liquor comes to a full 
boil, put the oysters in, and boil until nearly done ; then pour in 
a quart of fresh milk. Season with salt, pepper, and a blade of 
mace. If you prefer the soup a little thick, powder a half dozen 
crackers fine, and sifb them into it. 

OYSTER MOUTH SOUP. 

First make a rich mutton broth, pour it on the oysters. Add 
a small piece of butter rolled in flour, let it simmer gently for about 
quarter of an hour, then serve it in a dish with crackers in the I)q4« 
tom. 

ASPARAQUS SOUP WITH OBEKN PKA£U 

AlUr cutting the greenest part of the asparagus into pieoit 



28 souPB. 

about an inch or two long, blanch them in Ixnling water antfl 
quite done ; add some good stock to it and strain it Boil the 
pieces separately, add them to the soup and serve toasted bread 
with it, if desired. 

GREEN PEA SOUP 

Take some young carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and caSbage 
lettuces ; cut them in slices, and put them into a stewpan with a 
little butter, and some lean ham cut in pieces. Cover them close- 
ly and let them stew for a short time. Fill up with stock sufficient 
for the soup required, and let it boil until the vegetables are quite 
soft, adding a few leaves of mint and the crust of a roll ; pound 
all, and having boiled a quart of peas, as green as you can, strain 
them off and pound them also ; mix them with the rest of the in- 
gredients and pass through a sieve. Heat it, and season with salt, 
pepper and sugar; add a few young boiled peas, and use the 
spinach to restore it. 

PEA SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

BoH a pint of split peas in two quarts of water for four or five 
hours, or until quite tender. Then add two turnips, two carrots, a 
stick of celery, and some potatoes all cut in pieces. When tender, 
pulp it through a sieve. Cut a large onion in slices and fry it in 
butter and flour, to thicken the soup. Season to taste. If desired, 
a ham bone or a piece of beef can be stewed with the peas, to be 
taken out when the soup is pulped through the sieve. Serve with 
the soup pieces of bread fried crisp in butter. 

ENGLISH PEA SOUP. 

Take a half of a shin of beef, some beef and ham bones, and, 
if possible, a knuckle of veal, and boil all together, in a gal- 
lon of water, with a little salt. Clear it of the scum, as it rises. 
and have ready a quart of split peas, which have been soaked in 
cold water over night. Boil the meat very slowly, for two hours, 
then put in tlie peas, which will have absorbed the water, with a 
loot of celery, and two ox three carrotv scraped, and cut in pieces. 
8ift in» also, a little dried mint, and season to taste. Cook slow* 
]j» ftiniDg often with a wooden spoon, fcr four hours. 



SOUPS. 29 



ABTICHOKB SOUP. 

Have a knnckle of veal (weighing about five pounds) for din 
ner. When all have dined^ return the bones into the stewpan, 
with the liquor in which it was boiled, a nice^ white onion, and 
two turnips. Boil some Jerusalem artichokes in milk, (skim milV 
will do,) then beat up all with the liquor, which, of course, muMi 
be first strained, then thickened with a small quantity of flour rub«- 
bed smooth in a tea cup, with a little milk. Use white pepper fof 
the seasoning, to keep the color pure. 

PARSNIP SOUP. 

Cut in pieces half a dozen parsnips, a head of celery, and two 
onions ; stew them in two quarts of stock until they are tender, 
take them out and pulp them through a coarse sieve, and pour the 
pulp back into the soup, flavor with pepper and salt, and before 
serving pour in a little milk. 

CARROT SOUP. 

Take half a gallon of stock ; add three turnips, six carrots, three 
or four onions, and let them stew till tender. Take out the vege- 
tables, strain the soup ; take off the red part of the carrots, and 
rub it through a colander, make the soup about as thick as cream, 
with the pulped carrot. Heat it well through and serve. 

GOLANDERED SOUP. 

Boil in water some peas with salt, pepper, and any vegetables. 
When quite soft mash the whole and bray through a sieve or col- 
ander. Instead of split peas you may use carrots, turnips, aspar- 
agus, or green peas, etc., as the staple. Put your colandered veg- 
etables back into the pot, and if you have any stock, thin the soup 
with it ; if you have no stock, thin with water, or milk and water 
Boil up, and your dish is fit for table. 

BARLEY SOUP. 

In four quarts of water put two pounds of trimmings 3r odd 
pieces of meat, a quarter of a pound of pearl barley, four sliced 
onions, salt and pepper, with a little parsley, if you have it. Sim< 
mer for three hours or more. 



30 0OT7P«. 



VKSNCH SOUP* 

Put fiivt a gallon of water to a sbeep^s head nicely cleaned, dieo 
reduoe it to half the quantity, and add a teacupful of pearl bar* 
ley, half a dozen large onions, a turnip, a carrot, a bunch of sweet 
herbs, pepper, salt, cloves, and a little mushroom or walnut cat> 
■up. Strain all off, cut part of the head in pieces and serve it in 
(be soup, with a small quantity of white wine. 

PUMFKIN SOUP. 

Take three pounds of ripe pumpkin, peel and remove the seeds, 
cut into pieces of moderate size, and place in a stewpan over the 
fii'e with a pint of water ; let it boil slowly till soil, strain off all 
the water, and pass the pumpkin through a colander ; return the 
pulp into the stew pan adding nearly three pints of milk, one ounce 
or more of butter, a pinch of salt and pepper, and a few lumps of 
loaf sugar ; boil for ten minutes, stirring often. Pour it boiling 
into the dish, on very thin slices of bread. The sugar improves 
the flavor, but may be omitted. It can be seasoned with a blade 
of mace or a little nutmeg. 

GOURD SOUP. 

Cut two pounds of the gourd into large slices, put it into a pan 
with three ounces of butter, two tea-spoonfuls of salt, two of moist 
sugar, a little pepper, and half a pint o^ water ; set on the fire and 
stew gently for twenty minutes. When reduced to a pulp, add 
two table-spoonfuls of flour, stir and moisten with three pints of 
new milk ; boil with care ten minutes longer, knd serve with toast 
in slices. Vegetable marrow is equally good, made into soup ac- 
cording to this receipt. 

ONION SOUP WITH MILK. 

Slice some onions into a stew pan, with a piece of dripping, 
cr lard, and a little flour. When brown add a quart of boiling 
milk, pepper, salt, and any cold cooked vegetables at hand. Bo3 
ap once or twice, and you have a delicious food, without meat of 
•took. 



SOUPS. 81 



ONION SOUP WITH WATER. 

^ SUce some onions into a stewpan. with any grease at hand^ 
and keep them moving about till half* brown, then silt in a littla 
floor or fine bread-crumbs, and brown well. Now add a quart ol 
boiling hot water, with salt, pepper, and some cold cooked yege* 
Cables This would be greatly improved if you could contrive to 
hy in grea»? a few bits of bread cut into small pieces, and add 
Uiem to the soup when brown. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

Boil a shin of veal three hours, or take some soup stock. Cirt 
up two onions, two carrots, and two turnips, and put with it ; also 
pepper, salt and one dozen tomatoes. Boil this two hours, and 
strain it through a sieve. Toast some pieces of bread a light 
brown ; cut them in dice form, and put them into the dish. The 
soup should be turned on to the toast just before it is taken to the 
table, as soaking long spoils it. 

BREAD SOUP. 

Set the stock on the fire to boil ; let it simmer three or four 
hours. Place in a bowl bits of bread, no matter how hard and 
stale. Pour over them enough hot broth to soak them well ; mash 
fine, and put the whole into the stock. Let it continue to simmer 
a few minutes more after the bread mash has been added. 

TEBMICELII SOUP. 

Put a shin of veal, one onion, two carrots, two turnips, and a 
little salt, into four quarts of water. Boil this three hours ; add 
two cups of vermicelli, and boil it an hour and a half longer. Be- 
fore serving take out the bone and vegetable. 

JENNT LINDAS SOUP. 

The following soup is stated by Miss Bremer, to be the soup 
constantly served to Mademoiselle Jenny Lind, as prepared by 
hei own cook. The sago and eggs were found by her soothing to 
iihe chest, and beneficial to the voice. Wash a quarter of a pound 
of best pearl sago thoroughly, then stew it quite tender and vei7 



^ 



82 uovfFn. 

t2uok in water or thick broth ; (it will require nearly or quite a 
quart of liquid, which should be poured to it cold and heated slow- 
ly ; ) then mix gradually with it a pint of good boiling cream or 
milk, and the yolks of four fresh eggs, and mingle the whole care- 
fiilly with two quarts of strong veal or beef stock, which should 
always be kept ready boiling. Serve immediately. 

GERMAN PANCAKE SOUP. 

Make a batter with a pound of flour, a little salt, half a pint oi 
milk ; stir well, and add two eggs beaten ; it should be of the con- 
sistency of cream. Make this into pancakes, fiied very pale yel- 
low. As each one is fried, lay it on a board and double over 
once. Roll each slightly, and cut into strips half an inch wide» 
and put them into the soup tureen and pour good stock, well sea- 
soned and strained, over them. Serve hot. 

SOITP JARDINIERE. 

Put a bouquet of finely cut vegetables, consisting of celery, a 
carrot, an onion, tomatoes, — ^two if fresh, two table -spoonfuls if 
canned, — ^a leek, and a bunch of parsley, in a stew pan, with two 
ounces of butter, pepper, salt, and cover down for nearly an hour; 
when cooked soil in the butter add a quart or more of broth, and 
two table-spoonfuls of cold jelly gravy, and leave the whole to 
simmer together an hour longer, or until dinner time. During the 
process of coming to a boil, the butter or grease rising to the top 
should be skimmed off and preserved, to be clarified for further 
use. 

AN XNEXPENSIYB SOUP. 

Take three pounds of the neck of beef, one cow heel, carrots and 
turnips, half a hjad of celery, one bunch of tied up sweet herbs, 
four onions browned, one pint of peas ; put together into three 
quarts of water and, after boiling some hours, strain through a 
sieve. The best part of the cow heel may be cat m square pieoei 
ftnd served up in the soup. 

BAKED SOUP. 

When baking if more convenient, in four quarti of wattr pal 



SOUPS. 88 

one poand of trimmings or odd pieces of meat, two onions, and 
two sliced carrots, two ounces of rice or bits of bread, one pint 
of split peas, pepper and salt. Put the whole into a dose jar, and 
bake slowly for four hours. This will make a good, wholesome 
food for a large family. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Pat a pmt of peas into a -quart of water ; boil them until they 
•re so tender as easily to be pulped through a sieve. Take of the 
leanest end of a loin of mutton three pounds, cut it into chops, 
put it into a saucepan with a gallon of water, four carrots, four 
turnips, cut in small pieces; season with pepper and salt. Boil 
until all the vegetables are quite tender ; put in the pulped peas a 
head of celery and a sliced onion. Boil fifteen minutes, and serve. 

SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. 

Take the scrag end of a large sized neck of mutton, reserving 
the best half for cutlets, put it into a stewpan and boil it with three 
quarts of water, half a pint of Scotch barley, three leeks, three 
onions, a little parsley and thyme. Skim it, and afler it has boiled 
up, let it stand on the top of the stove and simmer for two hours, 
then skim again, and if it is too thick with barley add half a pint 
of boiling water, three or four turnips, a head of celery, and two 
carrots cut in pieces ; after which, let it simmer slowly an hour and 
a half more ; the barley should be almost wholly dissolved. Tne 
meat may be cut in pieces and served with the broth or served sep* 
arately. 

BKOTH FOR AN INVALID, 

Cut the chicken, veal, mutton or beef, up into pieces, and put 
into a jar with a cover ; fill with water, adding a little salt ; dose 
down tight, and let it simmer all day on the stove or range ; strtin, 
ind season to taste. This method extracts all the juicet and 
9tiengih of the meat and is infinitely better than boiling. 



MEATS. 



TO BOIL BEEF. 

if llie beef is very salt put it in cold water ; if it is only sliglitly 
eorned put it in hoUing water, and let it cook very slowly. This 
will render it quite as tender as if put into cold water, and at the 
same time all the juices of the meat will be retained. Boil until 
tender, but not until ragged, so that the meat will cut clean and 
dear, when cold. 

Never buy poor, cheap pieces of corned beef, they are full of 
bone and gristle ; there is no satisfaction in eating from them, and 
they prove the most costly in the end. 

Fresh beef should never be boiled plain, unless it is boiled down 
for soup ; it may be stewed, or cooked alamode, or stuffed and 
baked, provided the piece is not suitable for roasting. 

STEWED BEEF. 

Take six pounds of round of beef, place it in a deep kettle, 
with half a pint of water, half a pint of broth, a gill of good vin- 
egar, a bunch of parsley, a few cloves, a sprig of sweet marjoram, 
and some salt, and pepper. Let it lay in this over night, turning it 
several times, if it is warm weather ; it is best to give the mixture 
a boil up, putting the meat to it cold. The next day simmer foul 
or five hours, adding two onions chopped small ; take up the meat, 
add a tea spoonful of butter braided in flour to the strained liquor, 
with a dash of mushroom catsup. Four it over the meat, and 
serve. If more liquid is required while stewing, put in broth or 
grmfrj if you have it,— if not, water. 

CUBED BRISKET OF BBEF FOR CHRISTMAS. 

At night rub fourteen pounds of brisket of beef, with one ounce 
of saltpetre pounded very fine ; the next morning mix together 



XBATd. 85 

half a ponnd of sugar and four handfuls of cc mmon salt, and rub 
the beef well over with it. Let it remain in the pickle two weeks, 
turning and rubbing it every day ; then take it out, and put it into 
an earthen pan, with some suet chopped fine to cover the bottom 
of the pan, and the same on the top of the beef, with a little watei 
to keep the pan from burning. Bake it slowly for riz hours 
Eaten cold. 

CUBED BBIEF, TO BAT COLD. 

Put three fourths of a pound of coarse sugar, one pound of bay 
salt, nearly an ounce of allspice, a tea-spoonful or less of cloves, a 
small piece of saltpetre, and three cents worth of cochineal, into four 
quarts of water ; let these all boil slowly together fully twenty min- 
utes ; then take from the fire, and let it stand till quite cool. Take 
a round of beef, from twenty to twenty-five pounds, and pour this 
pickle over it, turning it once or twice a day, continuing this for 
two or three weeks. At the end of this time it will be ready for 
nse. 

BOILED BEEF STEAKS. 

It is not necessary to beat them ; cut them half an inch thick 
and place them on the gridiron. The fire should be clear and 
brisk, the gridiron should be hot, the bars rubbed with suet. 
Sprinkle a little salt over the fire. Turn the steaks often, keeping 
a dish dose to the fire, in which to drain the gravy from the top 
of the steak as you lift it. The gridiron is best set in a slanting 
direction, so that fat will not fall on the coals and make a smoke. 
If there is a smoke, take the steak off for a moment. Over a brisk 
fire of coals steaks will be done in ten minutes. Then lay them 
on a hot plate with a smal? slice of butter on each piece, pouring 
over them the gravy, and sprinkling on a very little salt. 

BEEF ALAMODB. 

Lard a round of beef with slices of fat bacon dipped in vinegar; 
roll it up with chopped seasoning, cloves, sage, parsley, thyme, 
pepper and green onions ; bind.it close and put it in a sauce pan 
Tnm it when half done, and let it stand for twelve hours on i 
■tore. It can be eaten hot or cold. 



3^ lOfiAtB. 



BRAISED BEEF. 

Take five or six pounds of rump» and covei down close in a pan. 
irith enough butter or clarified dripping to prevent burning m 
•ticking to the pan ; let it cook slowly for an hour, then pour off 
the grease and put in a little broth, half a cup of rich gravy, a few 
Jrops of vinegar, and ahttle calf^s-foot jelly, if convenient ; covei 
iown closely again and let it cook, with the heat all about it, foi 
two hours longer, basting frequently; when it is quite tender, 
take it up, and mix half a table-spoonful of fiour with a little cream, 
and put into the gravy, which season to taste, and then pour over 
the meat, that is to say, a part of it, for an economical cook will 
reserve part to assist in the preparation of next day's dinner. 

BRISKET OF BEEF STUFFED. 

A piece weighing eight pounds requires about five or six hours 
to boil. Make a dressing of bread crumbs, pepper, salt, sweet 
herbs, a little mace, and one onion chopped fine and mixed with 
an egg. Put the dressing in between the fat and the lean of the 
beef and sew it up tight ; flour the cloth ; pin the beef up very 
tight in it ; boil it five or six hours. When it is done take the 
cloth ofiT, and press it until it is cold. This is to be cut in thin 
slices and eaten cold. 

MOCK DUCK. 

Procure a steak cut from the rump of beef, and fill it with a 
dressing made of chopped bread, pork, sage, onions and sweet 
marjoram, and well seasoned ; sew it up, put a slice or two of pork, 
or some of the dressing, on the top, and set it in a pan, into which 
pour a pint of water ; cover down tight, and let it cook slowly w 
the oven three hr^ura ; then take off the lid, brown quickly, and 
perve hot. 

OX CHEEK STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Mash and soak thoroughly an ox cheek ; put it into plenty of 
warm water.and boil gently an hour, throwing in a large tea spoon 
ful of salt and skimming occasionally. Lift it out, and when coo 
take out the bones. Put in a good roll of forcemeat ; bind up tin 



MB ATS. 3? 

dieek securely, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour or an lioui 
And a half, until it is quite tender clear through. Drain it fi-oin 
(at, unbind it, and serve it with a good brown gravy, or any sauce 
preferred, or with melted butter in a tureen, a cut lemon and 
Cayenne. 

SPICED BEBF. 

This can be made from either the round, brisket or rump of 
Oeef, but ribs are the most tender eating. Procure from eight tc 
ten pounds of the ribs of beef; those whi(;h have a good amount 
of fat upon them are the best ; remove the bone, rub the meat well 
with one ounce of saltpetre pounded very finely, and three hours 
after this has been applied, rub on half a pound of moist sugar; 
let the meat lay in this for two days, then take one ounce of ground 
pepper, half an ounce of pounded mace, a few cloves well pound- 
ed, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Mix all these ingredi- 
ents well, and rub them well into the beef, particularly into the 
holes, adding occasionally a little salt. Roll up the meat as a 
round, and bind it with a strong fillet. Chop some suet very 
finely, cover the beef with it, and bake it in a moderately heated 
oven, from five to six hours. While baking, it may be placed 
either upon a meat tin, or in an earthen jar as nearly of its size 
as possible. In both cases there should be a cup full of gravy or 
water under the meat, to prevent it from burning ; if a jar is used 
there should be a cover to it. 

FILLBTS OF BEEF. 

Take two pounds of steak from a round of beef, cut thin, divide 
it into strips about three inches broad ; beat them with a chopper 
till flat and" tender, then chop finely some fresh gathered mush* 
rooms, and add a little pepper, salt, and fresh butter in small pieces. 
Lay the mushrooms and seasoning half over the strips of steak ; 
roll them up, fasten them with a coarse needle and thread, (or witl 
▼ery tiny skewers,) and lay the fillets in a pie dish to bake. The 
baking dish should be covered with another dish of the samv 
size, to prevent the steam from evaporating, otherwise the outside 
of the meat will be dry. Thicken the gravy which is in the baking 
dish with flour and butter, and add mushroom catsup as a seasoning 



MBATB. 

The fillets will require turning whilst baking. "But a less trouble- 
some plan of cooking a steak in this mode, is to have it dressed in 
one piece The steak should be cut thin and rolled as described, 
but instead of mushrooms add a fine forcemeat or plain yeal 
itu fling. 

FIUJCTS OP BEEF WITH ANCHOVY. 

Soak Qve or six anchovies in water for about two hours* split 
them and put the fillet with them, mixed with some bacon ; boil 
it on a slow fire with a small quantity of broth, a glass of white 
wine, a clove of garlic, two cloves, and a bunch of herbs. When 
sufficiently done, strain the sauce, add to it a piece of butter roU 
ed in flour, two spoonsful of cream, and a few capers ; mix in ^ 
little yolk of egg, and pour it over the fillet. 

FILLETS OF BEEF WITH FORCEMEAT. 

Make forcemeat with fowls' livers, grated bacon, a little buttar^ 
parsley, shallots, three yolks of eggs, and spices. Cut a fillet of 
beef in two, flatten it with a cleaver, lard it through, then lay the 
forcemeat between it, and also about a pint of small mushrooms 
which have been previously stewed in a little butter ; tie the meat 
up in a cloth, boil it in broth, with a glass of wine and a bunch of 
sweet herbs. 

HUNTERS BEEF. 

Take a round of beef weighing fifteen pounds, and let it hang 
two or three days. Reduce to a very fine powder two ounces of 
saltpetre, two ounces of sugar, three quarters of an ounce of 
cloves, the same of nutmeg, one third of an ounce of allspice, two 
handsfiil of common salt. Bone the beef, and rub the spices well 
into it, and do so every day for two or three weeks. When yoa 
wish to dross the meat, wash the spices off the outside with cold 
water, bind it up tightly with tape, and place it in a pan with % 
tea-cupful of water at the bottom ; cover the top of the meat with 
chopped suet ; cover the pan with a coarse paste, and brown pa* 
per over that. Let it bake five hours, and when it is cold remove 
the paste and the tape. Some persons stuff the hole left by taking 
oat the bone, with chopped parsley and sweet herbs. 



MXATS S9 



HUNG BKKF. 

Make a strong brine of bay salt, saltpetre and pump water 
Place in it a piece of ribs of beef, and let it lie for nine days. 
Then hang it in a chimney in the smoke of wood or sawdust 
When it is nearly dry, wash the outside with bullock^s blood, an4 
when this is dry, boil it and serve it with vegetables. 

HAMBURGH PICKLB FOR BEEF, HABfS AND TONGUE. 

Take two gallons of water, three pounds of bay salt, or if that 
cannot be g.it, five pounds of common salt, two pounds of coarse 
sugar two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper 
bruised and tied in a fold of muslin ; boil all together twenty min- 
utes, removing the scum as it rises. Pour the pickle into a deep 
earthen jar, and when it is cold lay in the meat so that every part 
is covered. Turn the meat occasionally. A middling sized round 
of beef will be ready for the table in a fortnight. 

MEAT PIE FOR LUNCH. 

Place a thick rump steak well larded and rubbed with shallot in 
the bottom of a saucepan, cut up some game into small pieces 
without bones, and lay over the steak, mixed with pepper and salt 
and some pieces of bacon ; stew them all well, and add chopped 
mushrooms and a rich gravy, before makmg them into the pie. 
The pie should have a thick ornamental crust round the sides and 
on the bottom. Let the top srust be loose, so that additional 
gravy can be poured in ; and bake until it is a light brown. 

BEEF BALLS. 

Take a piece of beef boiled tender, chop it very finely with an 
ecion, season with salt and pepper, add parsley, bread crumbs, 
iemon peel, and grated nutmeg ; moisten it with an egg, mix wel 
together, and roll it into balls. 'Aen dip them in flour and fir^ 
them in boiling krd or fresh dripping. Serve them with thickened 
brown gravy« oi fiied bread crumbs. 

BEEF CROQUETTES. 

IGnoe some dressed beef very fine, melt a piece of batter in • 



40 igbatb! 

slew pan, add thne or four onions, chopped fine, and fried a pale 
brown ; add a spoonful of flour, and moisten with a Httle good 
8to k, or gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little 
parsley chopped fine. When the sauce is done enough, put in the 
ninced beef; let it stew a short time till the sauce is dry, then 
form the meat into either balls or rolls ; dip each into the beaten 
whito of eggs ; have some butter, or lard, hot ; put each ball 
very gently into the frying pan, shaking a little flour over them, 
roll them about gently in the pan to brown them alike, and when 
a good color, drain them on a cloth, and serve on dressed parsley. 

HASHED BEEF. 

Take cold roast beef, cut in slices, and remove skin and gristle. 
E^ace in a stewpan a small piece of butt-er, an onion chopped 
fine, a table-spoonful of flour ; put it on the fire and stir it till it 
browns, but be careful it does not burn. Then stir in gradually 
half a pint of stock, flavored with herbs, with a little salt, and let 
it boil up thick. Put in two table-spoonsful of hot green pickles 
chopped small, and the slices of beef. Heat them through and 

serve with sippets of toast. 

« 

COLD MIXCED BEEF. 

Having removed the fat and skin, mince the beef nearly to a 
paste : stew gently — if possible over night, so that the fat may 
be skimmed off. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with 
oat-meal ; chop a half handful of parsley and thyme and throw in ; 
boil a large onion nearly tender, chop it and mix it in ; add sufficent 
broth or skim-milk and water to cover the beef; let it simmer two 
hours ; then thicken with a little oatmeal, and add a dessert spoon- 
ful of mushroom or walnut catsup ; stir well, boil a minute and serve 
with pieces of bread toasted. The bones from which the meat is 
cut will do for the broth in which the meat is stewed, if broth w 
used. Even then, however, a tea-cupful of milk may be added 
with the thickening. 

DRIED BEEF COOKED. 

After being thinly sliced, as usual, freshen it in water ; stew it io 
t little water until tender ; then beat an egg with a little flour, pat 



— T 



MBATft. 41 



% lamp of butter to the beef, stir in the egg and floar, and serve 
on toast bread with the gravy over it. 



KESFIKO BBEF. 

Cut up the meat in pieces as large as you wish, and pack it in 
a barrel or cask. Then make a brine as follows : one pound an*! 
a half of salt to one gallon of water, one ounce of saltpetre to one 
mndred pounds of beef, one table-spoonful of ground pepper to 
one hundred pounds of beef. Put in the salt and saltpetre, heat 
tt boiling hot, skim it, then add the pepper. Pour it on the beef 
boiling hot and cover closely. 

TOUGH BEEF. 

Carbonate of soda will remedy tough beef. Cut the steaks the 
day before using into slices about two inches thick; rub over 
them a small quantity of soda ; wash off next morning, cut it into 
suitable thickness, and cook. The same process will answer for 
fowls, legs of mutton, etc. 

A LEG OF MUTTON IN FOUB MEALS. 

For the first meal, cut off a handsome knuckle and boil it ; for the 
second meal, take as many cutlets as required for the family from 
the joint ; for the third meal, roast the remainder of the joint. The 
remains of both the boiled and roasted meat, may then be hashed 
for a fourth meal. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Cut off the shank bone and trim the knuckle. Boil with salt 

in the water, skimming. If it weighs nine or ten pounds it will 

need to cook three hours. It may be served with parsley or celery 

and butter, or caper sauce ,^ or pickled kidney beans and onioi 

auce ; mashed turnips, spinach and potatoes are good with it. 

ROAST IJ5G OF MUTTON. 

A leg of mutton weighing ten pounds should be roasted two 
bourn. When half done, turn the fat out of the roaster; then 
baste the meat- with the dripping. Make the gravy the same as for 
roast beef, or add a few spoonsful of current jelly and a cup oi 



42 MEATS. 

red wine. Ten minutes more should oe allowed fbr every eztn 
po!md of mutton. 

LEG OP MUTTON WITH OTSTEBS. 

Parboil fat oysters and mix with them some parsley, minoed 
onions, and sweet herbs, boiled and chopped fine, and the yolks of 
two hard boiled eggs. Cut five or six holes in the fleshy part of a leg 
of mutton, and put in the mixture ; dress it as follows : Tie it 
up in a cloth and let it boil gently two and a half or three hours, 
according to the size. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF LAMB. 

A nice way^ to cook a shoulder of lamb is to bone it, and fill tlie 
space with a stuffing made of chopped mushrooms, parsley, salt 
pork, cracker crumbs, some sweet herbs, pepper and salt, and a 
raw egg. Braise it with some good stock gravy, and send it to 
table surrounded by spinach, garnished with slices of egg, 

ROAST QUARTER OF LAMB. 

To roast a quarter of lamb, lard it slightly with salt pork, and 
sprinkle it with bread crumbs and finely-chopped parsley. Make 
a sauce of "ome stock gravy, a table-spoonful of vinegar, chopped 
mint, a little yolk of egg, and mushroom catsup ; pour over the 
jomt, and let it stand in the oven a few moments. ' Serve with 
green peas, with which a little bunch of mint has been boiled 

ROAST JOINT OF MUTTON. 

Roast the joint of a leg of mutton in the usual way ; rub on a 
little salt, and also sprinkle on flour as the fat comes out. Have it 
nicely and evenly browned on every side, baste it well, and when 
ready, to take out, pour off the dripping and have ready a little 
boiling water, but do not drown the real juices of the meat. 
Serve with currant jelly if convenient. 

BROILED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim them ; remove what fat is not required to cook with them , 
leason and broil over a clear fire, turning often until done. Serve 
irlth small pieces of butter on them. 



MSATB. 48 



FRIED MUTTON CHOPS. 

Trim ihem, season with pepper and salt, fry them m their owb 
fiit or pork fat, trirn them often. Serve them hot. Brown a littl« 
batter and flour add a little water, and pour the gravy over them. 

BniTTON CHOPS WITH CUCUBfBlERS. 

Slice cucumbers and lay them in a deep dish, sprinkled witio 
salt and wet with vinegar. Fry the chops a nice brown, lay them 
in a stewpan, and put the cucumbers, drained, over them ; add some 
chopped onions, pepper and salt, cover them with weak broth and 
stew them, skimming occasionally. 

SAVORY MUTTON CHOPS. 

Cut up the chops and beat them with the edge of a knifb. Beat 
the yolks of a few eggs and dip the cutlets in them ; season them 
with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and bread crumbs. Roll them in but- 
tered papers and boil them. Use for sauce some good gravy, a 
piece of butter, crumbs of bread, capers, anchovies, with some 
nutmeg and a little vinegar. As soon as they are dressed, tear off 
the papers, and set them on the dish with the sauce. 

COLD MUTTON BROILED. 

Cut in thick slices cold boiled leg of mutton ; it should, not be 
XM)ked too much or it will fail into pieces ; put on it salt and pep- 
per, and then broil it. Let it be very hot, and add a thick sauce 
flavored with fresh tomatoes, or tomato sauce, and serve. 

MUTTON PUDDING. 

Take cold boiled mutton, or roast mutton if that is on hand, cut 
it into small slices, and slice a few potatoes. Dip the slices oi 
meat into a mixture of salt, pepper, flour, and finely chopped onion 
butter the basin, line it with suet crust, fill it with alternate layera 
of mutton and potatoes, pour in a tea-cupful of gravy, or tUxk^ 
tover with crust and cook it. 

FIRST RATE WESTERN STEW. 

Part of a breast of mutton or Iamb, cut in bits, as many potfti 



44 

toes, pepper and salt to taste ; two onions, a bunch of parsley, a 
bunch of sweet herbs. Stew all together in barely sufficient water 
to cover Ihem, for two hours, gently. Then put in a tea-cup of 
tomato catsup, and boil up again. Serve hot. 

MUTTON CROQUETTES. 

Cut the meat from a neck of mutton mto pieces alout as large 
XB your finger, lard them through with ham baopn ; let them sim> 
mer in some stock with sweet herbs ; when done, take the pieces of 
meat out, reduce the gravy and strain it over them ; cover each 
piece with good fowl seasoning, wrap it in a slice of bacon, wash 
them over with egg, strew them with bread crumbs, and bake 
them. 

HASHED MUTTON. 

At night cut cold boiled or roast mutton into slices, remove the 
■olid fat, break the bones, and put it in a saucepan with a large 
onion sliced thin ; pour in broth or stock to just cover over it, and 
let it simmer until at boiling heat, but do not let it boil. Poui' it 
into an earthen dish and cover it for the night. In the morning, 
or sometime before dinner, skim off the fat, return it to the pot 
with seasoning and a little Hour, and let it simmer, but not boil, a 
long time. As the meat gets dry, pour in milk. A quarter of an 
hour before serving, take away the bones and skin, add a dessert 
spoonful or more of walnut or mushroom catsup, thicken smooth- 
ly with flour, oat meal or Indian meal, wet with milk and liquor 
from the hash ; boil a minute longer, add more seasoning if re- 
quired, and serve with sippets of toasted bread. 

UNCOOKED MUTTON MINCED. 

Cut off two pounds from a leg of mutton, remove the fat, and 
uhop it up finely, with a slice or two of bacon ; season with pep- 
per and salt, and put it into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of gra\r, 
six ounces of butter. Chop three young lettuces ; add a quart < i 
young peas, an onion chopped small. Stir all together over a 
gentle fire until quite hot, then place the saucepan closiil} cov^^^^ 
ed at the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for three houri 
Serve ir a hot dish, and place round it a wall of wcU-cooked rice. 



UXATA. 45 



HASHED MUTTON WITH MUSHBOOICS 

Take nice slices of mutton, without skin or fat, and sprinklfl 
each piece with flour on both sides. Put six large mushrooms, 
after having been trimmed and cut in four pieces, into a stewpan 
with a small piece of butter, to stew; add a little grav}*, some pep-> 
Msr and salt, and when sufficiently done, put in the meat ; let it 
^leat through, slowly, stirring it the while that it may not bum« 
but not let it boil, or the meat will be hard. As soon as the hash 
thickens and the flour is all heat through and changed color, the 
hash is done. Serve immediately with sippets of neatly cat, thin 
toast, or fried bread, round the dish. 

MINCED MUTTON. 

Prepare a sauce by taking finely chopped onions, parsley, and 
sweet herbs ; fry in butter, and add a table-spoonfiil of flour mixed 
in water or stock, and as much stock as required. Mince cold 
boiled or roast mutton, taking only the good parts, place it in the 
sauce and warm it through without boiling. This should be 
served with poached eggs on the top. 

MINCED MUTTON WITH CUCUMBERS. 

To prepare minced mutton and cucumber, the mutton should be 
minced as before, then a large cucumber should be pared, the 
seeds taken out, and cut up in small, square pieces about the size 
of a nutmeg. Stew till tender in savory brown sauce, and put in 
the minced mutton and some thickening, if necessary. Mix the 
mutton and cucumber well together, let it heat through, and serve 
it piled high on a dish, with sippets of fried bread round it. 

THE EFICURB^S HASH. 

Cut in slices about one pound of cold mutton ; then put two 
•li(.'ed onions into a stew pan with a small piece of butter, and fry 
brown ; then add half a pint of good flavored broth, a dessert- 
spoonful of Uarvey sauce, the same spoon three times full of tara- 
gon vinegar, two tea-spoonsful of curry paste, a small lump of 
sugar, and a little pepper and salt to taste ; let this sauce just boil 
op once and then simmer slowly by the fire for half an hour ; stil 



46 lOBiiti. 

it often, and thicken it with a table spoonful of flour, mixed smoo^ 
in a little cold water ; or you can use com starch, half the quantity 
will do. When the thickening has boiled thoroughly, and the 
sauce ready, put in the meat, let it heat through but not boiL Sennt 
hot, with pieces of toast round the dish. 

QUARTER OF LAMB AS A SAVORY DISH. 

Procure a hind quarter of lamb, and cut off the shank from it. 
Uaise the thick part of the flesh from the bone with a knife. Pre- 
pare some forcemeat, the same as for veal or any other white meat, 
and place it between the bone and flesh, and all underneath the 
kidney. Roast the lamb partially, then place it on a saucepan 
with a quart of mutton gravy ; cover it up and let it stew gently. 
When it is sufficiently cooked, take it up and lay it upon a hot 
dish. Skim the fat from the gravy, and strain it ; add a wine glass 
full of sherry or Maderia wine, a dessert spoonful of walnut catsup, 
two of browning, the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne pepper* 
and half a pint of bearded oysters. Thicken with a little butter 
rolled in flour ; potir the gravy hot over the lamb, and serve it up. 

SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Put into an earthen pan a glass of water, two or three spoonsful 
of vinegar, three onions, sliced parsley, chives, two shallots, a bay 
leaf, a bit of thyme, two cloves, and about two ounces of butter ; 
cover the pan close, and put a paste of coarse flour and water 
round the edges, to keep in the steam ; let it bake three hours, 
strain the sauce and pour over the meat, afler seasoning it with 
pepper and salt. Another way is to stuff it with bread crumbs, 
suet, or butter, parsley, a little thyme and lemon peel, pepper, salt 
and nutmeg ; then lard it, and roast until brown, serving it with 
rich brown gravy. 

STEWED LOIN OF VEAL. 

Take part of a loin of veal, the chump end will do ; put it into 
a large, thick, well tinned* iron saucepan, or iLto a stewpan, two 
ounces of butter, and shake it over a moderate fire, until it begins 
to brown ; flour the veal well all over, lay it into the saucepan, 
and when it is of a light brown, pour in gradually veal broth 



lOBATS. 4/ 

graTT, or boiling water, to nearly half its Jepth ; add a little salt, 
one or two sliced carrots, a small onion or more, and a bunch oi 
parsley ; stew the veal yery gently for an hour or more ; then turn 
and let it stew another hour until it is perfectly done. Dish the 
joint ; skim all the fat from the gravy, and strain it over the meat, 
or keep the joint hot while it is rapidly reduced to a richer consis* 
tency. 

BBKAST OF YEAL STUFFED. 

Cat off the gristle, raise the meat off the bones, then lay a good 
forcemeat, made of pounded veal, some sausage meat, parsley, and 
a few shallots chopped very fine, and seasoned with pepper, salt, and 
nutmeg ; then roll the veal tightly, and sew it with the twine ; lay 
some slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, and put the veal roll on it ; 
add some stock, pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it 
stew three hours ; then cut out the twine, strain the sauce after 
skimming it, thicken it with brown flour ; let it boil up once, and 
pour it over the veal ; garnish with slices of lemon, each cut in 
four. A fillet of veal, first stuffed with forcemeat, can be dressed 
in the same manner, but it must first be roasted, so as to brown it 
a good color; and forcemeat balls, highly seasoned, should be 
served round the veal. 

BREAST OF VEAL STEWED. 

Brown the veal first, by half roasting it ; remove as many of the 
bones as possible, and then put it in a stewpan with some stock, a 
glass of wine, a piece of lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, a 
ham bone, an^ a carrot ; let it simmer slowly in the oven about 
half an hour before it is served ; strain off the sauce and remove 
the herbs, etc., put it then back with the veal, first thickening it 
with some flour browned with butter ; let it boil up to take off the 
raw taste of the flour ; tiien add some pickled mushrooms with their 
{nice, and serve. 

BOAST FIUET OF VEAL. 

Take out or ask the butcher to do so, the bone from the center, 
and fill the cavity with a stufling of bread crumbs, nice salt pork, 
m onion, sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste, all chopped 



48 MBAT8. 

np together until thoroughly blended ; with the remainder M up 
all the interstices and fasten with skewers ; cover down m a bake- 
pan with a teacupful of water, for an hour and a half, basting oo> 
casionally ; then remove the cover and roast until it becomes a ricli 
tirown. This dish is a universal favorite. 

LOIN OF VEAL 

This is best larded. Have every joint thoroughly cut and be- 
tween each one lay a slice of salt pork; roast a fine l.rown, and 
80 that the upper sides of the pork will be crisp; laste often; 
season with pepper ; the pork will make it sufficient) salt. 

. KNUCKLE OF VEAL. 

The knuckle, which is left after cutting off vhe fillet, makes excel- 
lent soup, or is very good boiled with rice. It should cook slowly 
on the top of the range, so that the rice will not bum, and be 
dished up with the meat in the center, and small pieces of buttex 
placed at intervals round it, in the rice. 

KNUCKLE OP VEAL WITH RICE. 

Boil a knuckle of veal, two turnips, one onion, six pepper-comSy 
a head of celery, and a tea-cupful of rice, together, very gently on 
the top of the stove for about three hours, skimming occasionally, 
and mixing in a little salt. When done, send it to the table with 
rice around the veal. The stock in which the veal has boiled, will 
help to make good soup. 

VEAL CUTLETS. 

Take six neck cutlets of veal, trim them neatly, and cut off the 
bone; lard the cutlets, put them into a frying-pan with a little 
butter, and let them brown ; shake a little flour over them, and then 
moisten them with a little stock ; add a bunch of fine herbs, some 
carrots cut in forms, or scalloped, some small onions, mushroomi, 
lalt, two cloves ; when the cutlets are done enough, dish them and 
pat the vegetables in the middle ; skim the sauce, strain it, and 
poor it over the cutlets. They must be well seasoned. 

BflNCED VEAL WITH BCACARONI. 

Mince up cold veal with a slice of ham, a little grated rind ojf 



MBAT8. 49 

lemon, a litde salt, and a few spoonsful of broth or gravy. Sim- 
mer gently, taking care that it does not boil. Serve it upon small 
squares of buttered toast, and surround it with a border of maca- 
roni, cooked without cheese. 

VEAL FRITTERS. 

Out cold boiled veal into small pieces, dip each in butter, 67 
Jiem a light brown color, drain them well from the fat, pile them 
bigh in a dish and pour round them a thick, brown sauce, strongly 
flavored with fresh tomatoes when in season — ^when not in season, 
use tomato sauce. 

BLANQUBTTB OF YBAL. 

Cut cold roast veal in small pieces, put half a pint of white 
sauce, and a little mushroom catsup in a sauce-pan ; when it boils, 
put in the meat and let it remain until it is well heated ; break in 
an egg slightly beaten ; when the sauce thickens put in a little juice 
of lemon, and send to table. 

VEAL ROLLS. 

Cut some slices of veal very thin and divide them into neat 
pieces. Lay on each some good forcemeat, seasoned high ; roll 
each up tight, and tie them with coarse thread ; put them on a bird 
spit ; after dipping each in the yolks of eggs, well beaten, flour 
them over, and baste them with butter ; half an hour will do them. 
Have a good gravy ready, with truffles and mushrooms chopped , 
and after dishing the rolls, pour the gravy round them. 

MOCK BEEFSTEAK. 

Take a leg of veal and com it slightly, by sprinkling salt ovei 
it ; let it lay a week, then cut from it steaks, which fry in the fat 
from a few thin slices of browned salt pork, or broil and serve 
with batter and pepper ; no salt will be needed. 

LOXJIS' FAVORITB DISH. 

Take two pounds of veal from the leg or the neck, and cut into 
nice pieces, which fry a light brown, with a slice of ham 01 «all 
pork« which may afterward be cut in pieoei ; have ready a saucoy 

3 



50 MBATB. 

made by mixing cold gravy or soup stock with a tablenipoonful of 
flour, a little thyme, pepper, salt, and some button mushrooms ; 
pour this over the veal and ham, and let the whole simmer together 
for half an hour. Of course, the veal and ham should be re* 
noved from the grease in which they were fried, and placed in a 
clean pan before the sauce is poured over them. 

MINCED VEAL. 

Take the part that is rare done, of either roasfed or boiled veal, 
jmd chop it very fine. Take beef gravy sufficient for the veal to 
be cooked in, dissolve cavear, of the quantity of an acorn, to one 
poiind of meat ; put into the gravy the minced veal, and let it boil 
one minute. Pour it into a soup dish, upon sippets of toasted 
bread. Garnish the dish with slices of bacon broiled. 

VEAL OMELETS. 

Three pounds of finely chopped veal, three eggs, six crackei 
rolls, one table-spoonful of salt, one of thyme, one of sage, and 
half a table-spoonful of pepper, half a teacup of milk, mix well, 
form into a loaf, baste with milk and butter while baking. Bake 
two hours. 

VEAL OLIVES. 

Cut two thin steaks from a fillet of veal, beat them and rub then 
over with the yolk of an egg ; then cut them in strips from four 
to five inches in length ; lay over every strip a very thin piece ot 
fiit bacon, and strew them over with bread crumbs, a little lemon 
peel, and parsley, chopped small ; season with cayenne pepper and 
salt. Roll them up separately, and fasten them with a little wood- 
en skewer in each. Dip them into eggy bread crumbs and parsley, 
chopped small. Put some clarified beef dripping into a frying pan, 
! 4 it boil up, then throw in the veal olives and fry them a light 
brown color Take a pint of good gravy, add to it a dessert- 
gpoonful of lemon pickle, and same of walnut catsup, and one 
of browning ; cayenne pepper and salt to taste ; thicken this with 
flour and butter. Place the veal olives on a hot dish, strain the 
gravy hot uiK)n them, garnish with lemon pickle and forcenieat 
balls, and strew over them a few pickled mushrooms. 



1IXAT0* U 



TXAL CHJEBSB. 

Take the hind quarter of Teal, add three eggs, one pound of 
pork, half a loaf of bread ; season with salt and pepper to taste ; 
chop, and wet the whole with milk. Bake two hours, then turn it 
cut and eat it cold. 

A BOAST FIG. 

About three or four weeks is the right age, to roast whole ; cmt 
off the toes, leaving the skin long to wrap around the ends of the 
legs, and put it in cold water. Make a stuffing, with about six 
powdered crackers, one table-spoonful of sage, two of summer- 
savory, one chopped onion, half a pint of cream, two eggs, with 
pepper, and salt. Mix these together, and stew about fifteen min- 
utes. Take the pig from the water, fill it with the stuffing, and 
sew it up. Boil the liver, and heart, with five pepper-corns, chop 
fine for the gravy. Put the pig to roast, with a pint of water, and 
a table-spoonful of salt. When it begins to roast, flour it well 
and baste it with the drippings. Bake three hours. 

BOAST FOBK. 

For roast pork, make a stuffing of crackers powdered fine, with 
half a pint of cream, two eggs, a small quantity of summer- 
savory, pepper, and salt ; cook about ten minutes. Take the leg 
of pork, of seven or eight pounds in weight, and raise the skin 
off the knuckle, and put in the stuffing, then make deep cuts in 
the thick part of the leg, and fill them also. It must be. floured 
over, and a pint of water put in the pan. While roasting, baste 
it often with the drippings. Cook about three hours and a half. 
Skim some of the fat from the gravy, add a little flour, and boil it 
well a few minutes. Serve with apple sauce, or any other thai 
may be preferred. 

SPABE BIB OF FOBK. 

Joint it down the middle ; sprinkle it with fine sage, salt, and a 
little flour ; put it in the oven and baste it well. Serve it witi 
•ppk sauoe^ egg sauce, or white saute. 



52 lasATS. 



PORK CUTLETS. 

To broil or i^ these, cut them half an inch thick, trim them into 
neat form, take oflf part of the fat. To broil them, sprinkle a little 
pepper on them, and broil them over a clear and moderate fire a 
quarter of an hour, or a few minutes more ; and just before taking' 
them off, sprinkle over a little fine salt. For frying, flour them 
prell and season with pepper, and salt, and sage. They may also 
be dipped into an egg^ and then into bread crumbs mixed with 
minced sage ; if for broiling, add a little clarified butter to the egg, 
or sprinkle it on the cutlets. 

BOSTON PORK AND APPI^E PIE. 

Boil one pound of nice, sweet, salt pork, and when it is cold 
chop it up fine. Peel half a peck of greening apples, chop them 
up also, and mix with the pork. Sweeten with sugar, and spice 
with cinnamon and ground cloves, or allspice, and bake in deep 
soup plates, slowly and thoroughly, with a crust on both sides. 

ENGLISH PORK OR RAISED PIE. 

These constitute a favorite luncheon dish in England. Take a 
pound of nice lard, and heat it until melted, in a little water. 
Use this hot melted lard to mix the flour into a paste, with a little 
salt. Work the paste very smooth, divide it, and form each piece 
into a round ball, gradually working a hollow in the centre, and 
raising a wall, two, three, or four inches high all round, according 
to the size required. Have ready the pork, fat and lean, cut into 
small square pieces ; fill each pie, season highly, fit a lid neatly to 
the top, egg over, and bake a light brown, in a steady but not a 
quick oven. 

PORK AND POTATO PEE. 

Take some pork bones from which the meat has been removed 
for sausages or other use. Put them into a deep dish and place 
amid them slices of apples and potatoes, with chopped onions, 
•alt and pepper ; add a little water ; cover it with a crist and bake 
•lowly. n 



KBATl. 68 



BACON OMELET. 

Beat up some eggs (according to the quantity required,) theo 
add salt, pepper, some finely cut parsely and green onions, and a 
dice or two of bacon cut into very fine mince meat ; mix all well 
together, fry and scorch the top with a red hot poker. 

BACON EGG-CAP. 

Cut a quarter of a pound of bacon into thin slices and stew them 
slowly, turning them over and over. Take out the slices and put 
to the grease two spoonsful of any stock you happen to have, and 
break over it six or seven eggs. Now add your slices of bacon* 
agam, pepper and salt, cook over a slow fire, and scorch the top 
with a red hot poker. 

PORE RELISH. 

Fry some slices of salt pork till crisp, take them out, pour a 
little water to the fat and season it with pepper ; sprinkle in a 
little flour, then c^ up the pork into small pieces and put it into 
this thickened gravy. 

TO CURE HAMS. — 1 

Weigh your hams, and make a brine of one ounce of salt to every 
pound of meat, and one ounce of saltpetre to every twenty pounds. 
Cover the bottom of the tub with salt ; pack the hams close, and 
fill the chinks with stones. Let the brine cover them well. After 
they have lain three or four weeks, take them up, dry and smoke 
them. Then wrap them in papers and lay them in ashes in a cool, 
dry cellar. This keeps the flies fi*om them, and prevents them 
from getting dry and hard. Hams cured in this way, keep the 
year round. 

TO CURE HAMS. — 2, 

For every one hundred lbs. of ham, take seven lbs. of salt, three 
ounces of saltpetre, two ounces of pearlash, one quart of molasses, 
five gallons of water. Re-pack the hams at the end of the fini 
week, and put the same pickle on them again. 



64 MBATft. 



BOILED HAM. 

A ham, if dry, may be soaked oyer night ; if moist, this may be 
omitted. Put it in warm water, and boil it for five or siz hours. 
If it is salt, the water may be changed once, though it should not 
be put into cold water. Soft water is best ; if the water is hard, 
ft little soda may be added to it. If it is desired to give the flavor 
of ham to vegetables, they may be boiled in some of the liquor the 
bam was boiled in, but the vegetables should not be put in with 
the ham. When done take off the skin, which fiho:ild be kept as 
whole as possible, (to put over the bam when cold, which will pre- 
vent its dryings) and grate toasted bread over it. Boiled ham U 
best eaten cold. When served, remove the skin, stick cloves at 
intervals with a ring of pepper around them, and garnish with 
parsley, or put fringed paper around the small end. 

SUGARED HAM. 

.l^ei bt^iling the ham three hours, remove the skin, sprinkle 
sugar over it and bake one hour. It will be delicious. 

POTTED HAM. 

Take thA remains of a boiled ham, cut in small pieces, and 
pound it, little by little, in a mortar ; softening it during the pro- 
cess, with a btde melted butter. Add Cayenne pepper to taste, 
and put it ih small bowls, glasses, or potting jars, pressing it down 
very smooth. Over the surface pour a little more melted butter ; 
cover tight, and set away. It will keep for weeks. This is a 
nice supper dish. 

BROILED HAM. 

Cut the ham m thin slices, and broil quick, on a gridiron set 
over lively hot coals. If the ham is too salt, soak it in hot water 
before broiling, and dry it with a cloth before putting it on the 
fire. Fry some eggs in an equal quantity of lard and butter, put 
an egg on each slice of ham, and serve. 

WESTPHALIA LOAYBS. 

Mix % jnarter of a pound of grated ham, with one pound o# 



MBATS. 66 

mealy potatoes, weil beaten until quite light, and add a little butter, 
cream, and two eggs ; but do not get it too moist. Make intc 
small balls, and fry with a little lard, a light brown. Serve with 
ft brown thick gravy. Garnish with fried parsley. 

HAM OB TONOUB TOAST. 

Toast a thick shce of bread, and butter it on both sides. Take 
a small quantity of remains of ham, or tongue, and grate it, and 
put it in a stew-pan with two hard boiled eggs chopped fine, mixed 
with a little butter, salt, and cayenne ; make it quite hot, then 
ipteftd thickly upon the buttered toast. Serve while hot. 



1 



SECONDARY MEATS. 



TALK BOAT FIB. 

Lbj three or four pounds of steak from the undercut of a rooad 
of beef, in a middling sized dishf having seasoned it with pepper 
and salt. Have a couple of chickens at hand, cut in pieces and 
seasoned ; plape them upon the steak, and over them one dozen 
and a half of fresh fat oysters, without the liquor. Add half a 
dozen fresh, hard boiled eggs, and after damping the bottom of the 
dish with half a pint of strong ale, cover the whole with fresh 
mushrooms, adding to these half a pound of glaze or plain neats- 
foot-jelly; lay over the dish a substantial paste, and bake in a 
brisk oven. This pie is excellent for a picnic or water excursion. 

IBISH STEW. — 1. 

Take off the under bone from the best end of a neck of mut* 
ton, and cut it into chops ; season them with pepper and salt, some 
mushroom powder, and beaten mace. Put the meat into a stew* 
pan, slice a large onion, and tie up a bunch of parsley and thyme, 
and add these and a pint of veal broth to the meat. Let this sim- 
mer until the chops are about three parts done, then add some on- 
ions, and whole potatoes peeled, and let all stew together until 
thoroughly cooked. Take out the parsley and thyme, and serve 
up in a deep dish. 

IBISH STEW. — 2, 

Take as much of mutton as is required ; the scrag end is the 
best for the purpose. Cut the meat into small chops, pare all the 
fat off the piece, chop it fine, and set it aside for dumplings ; let 
thf3 meat stew till perfectly tendei, strain the liquor, and set fche 
meat aside. The following day remove tl^fat, put the liquor in a 
ianoe pan, roll each jaeoe of mutton in flour, add the meat to the 



8BC0NDABY MBATS, Vt 

liquor, and sufficient potatoes and onions to thicken it. Before 
serving, add a layer of potatoes, boiled in a separate sauce-pan, 
also dumplings, about the size of an egg. The dumplings will take 
about twenty minutes to boil. No seasoning is required ezoepi 
pepper and salt. 

BAKBD IBISH STBW. 

mi a dish with alternate layers of mutton or beef, sliced pot^ 
toes and onions ; season with pepper and salt, pour in plenty of 
water for gravy, and cover the top closely with potatoes ; cook in 
a moderate oven, and let the potatoes on top be browned before it 
is served ; the onion can be omitted if desired. 

BOILED TONGUB. 

Saltpetered tongue requires five or six hours to boil. When, 
done, lay it in cold water three minutes, peel off the skin, beginning 
at the tip of the tongue, as it comes off much easier. 

SWBBTBBBAD. 

Add to a pint of water, or veal stock, a little grated lemon peel, 
mace, and pepper and salt ; in this put your sweetbreads, — ^twe 
good sized ones ; stew them an hour or more ; then take them out, 
mix a teaspoonful of flour with a little milk, mushrooms, and cat- 
sup, and add to the liquor when it boils ; put in the sweetbread for 
a moment. Serve with the sauce poured over them. 

TO FBY SWBETBBEAD. 

Scald them first ; fry them in butter, with a little sweet marjorsEm 
and parsley chopped fine, and served with a gravy, flavored with 
mushroom catsup. 

BIEAT OMIOUM. 

Take all the pieces of cooked meat you have, no matter whether 
boiled or roast, butcher^s meat, poultry or game, and mince very 
fine. Put the whole into a stew-pan, with a little parsley, a few 
green onions, and mushrooms, if you can get them, one or two 
eggs beaten up, and a little gravy or stock. Simmer for a quartef 
of an hour ; then take a meat dish, pour upon it a lay^r of yow 



68 SBOONDABY MBATg. 

0tew, a layer of bread in slices, another layer of stew, and lo on, 
and heat in an oven. When hot, pour it over the rest of £he ileii 
kot, andierve. 

aAUSAOB MBAT. 

Take one poand of fresh pork, two poindfl of lean beef, aai 
chop them very fine ; mix this with three tea-spoonfols of black 
pepper, the same quantity of salt, five of powdered sage, and fire 
^f summer'sayory ; make this into small cakes and place them upon 

1 plate. When needed, fry them in the same manner as sausages. 

* 

GOOD SAUSAGES. 

First chop separately, and then together, a pound and a quarter 
<if yeal, free from fat, skin, and sinew, and an equal weight of leaD 
pork, and of the inside fat of the pig. Mix them well, and sprin* 
kle (Ml an ounce and a quarter of salt, half an ounce of pepper, 
one nutmeg grated, and a large tea-spoonful of pounded mace. 
Turn and chop all together until equally seasoned throughout; 
press the sausages into a clean pan, and keep them in a very cool 
place. When wanted, form them into cakes an inch thick or less 
flour and fry them about ten minutes, in a little butter. 

RISSABLES. 

Chop veal and ham together finely, add a few bread crumbs, 
salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a little parsley and lemon peel, or shallot \ 
mix all together with the yolks of eggs well beaten ; either roll 
them into shape like a flat raiusage, or into the shape of pears, 
sticking a bit of horseradish in the ends, to resemble the stalks ; 
egg each over, and grate bread crumbs ; fry them brown and senre 
on crisp fried parsley. 

GRANDMOTnSR^S BREAKFAST BAIX8. 

A litde cold beef, or mutton, or both ; a slice of ham, or salt 
pork ; a small quantity of bread crumbs, a little parsley, a little 
sage, or thyme, all chopped together, and mixed with an egg, a 
little melted butter, and seasoning. Take a table spoonful of the 
mixture, dredge it with the floiur, and make into a ball, which £7 
• ^oick brown. 



MCOKDABt^ IdEAtB. M 

Thifl constitutes an elegant breakfast dish, and is a good way of 
getting rid of cold m^at, particularlj if hash is not liked. 

TURKISH DALMA. 

Chop the lean of any cold meat, with a quarter pound of beef 
wet^ veiy fine ; mix with quarter pound of scalded rice ; season 
with salt, pepper, and add the yolks of two eggs. Take cabbage 
leaves, dip them in water, make the meat into shape of cucumbers 
and fold Uie leaves round them, tying each with a thread ; put them 
into a stawpan with gravy, an anchovy, and an onion : stew a long 
time ge:itly. The thread is taken off when served, and the gravy 
browned with flour and a little butter. 

TO. COOK GOLD MEATS. 

Put the cold meat into a chopping bowl, cut them fiuA, season 
with salt, pepper, a little onion or else tomato catsup. Fill a tin 
bread pan two thirds full; cover it over with mashed potato 
which has been salted and has milk in it ; lay bits of butter ovei 
the top, and set it into an oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. 

SAVORY WINTER HASH. 

Any kind of cold meat, a few cold potatoes, an onion, pepper 
and salt, a little dried parsley, sage, and summer savory. Chop 
all together. Put it in a sauce-pan, with a little gravy, or hot wa- 
ter, and a small piece of butter. I^t it simmer gently for fifteen 
minutes. Turn out over thin slices of toast. It is palatable to 
persons who do not usually like hash. 

TOAD m THB HOLB. 

Make a batter of six ounces of flour, one pint of milk, two or 
three eggs, a little lard, salt and pepper ; put into it a pound of 
beef sausages, and bake for an hour. Instead of beef sausages, 
slices of any meat you have, or half a pound of pork sausages, or 
e few oysters with meat trimmings, may be used. 

cow HEEL. 

Bon in water a split cow heel (one already used for stock wiU 
do) four er five hours ; then add a pint of milk, and boil for two 



60 gJBOOKl>ABt^ IC&Atd. 

hours more, adding an onion or two, and if you like, a li^le 'shop' 
ped parsley. 

FRIED GOW HSEL. 

Gat a stewed cow heel into pieces about two inches long, and pat 
Hbe pieces into a frying pan with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, at<) 
a little minced parsFey. You will require to have grease in the 
pan, and it should be boiling before you put your cow heel in. 
About a quarter of an hour will suffice for frying. It would be a 
great improvement if you were to beat up an egg and dip each 
piece into it, before you put it into the hot frying pan. 

SHEBP^S TROTTERS. 

Into a stewpan put a little suet with sliced onions and carrots, 
thyme, salt and pepper ; let these simmer for about five minuter. 
Next add two spoonsful of flour and water, and keep stirring till it 
boils; when it boils, put in the trotters and simmer for three 
hours or more. Now mix in two eggs, beaten up in milk,, but do 
not let your stewpan boil again. Four into a deep dish, and gar- 
nish with toasted bread. 

SWEET BREAD, LIVER AND HEART. * 

Parboil the sweet bread, and let them get cold. Cut them in 
pieces about an inch tliick ; put on salt, and pepper and sage ; 
then dip them in the yolk of an egg and fine bread crumbs. 
Fry them a light brown. Another way is, to fiy slices of salt pork 
nntil brown, take out the pork and fry the sweet bread in the fat. 
When done, make a gravy by stirring a little flour and water mix- 
sd smooth, into the fat ; add spices, and wine, if you like. The 
£ver and heart are cooked in the same manner, or broiled. 

CALF^a HKAD CAKE. 

Parboil half a calf ^s head, with a little sage ; cut off the meat, 
put the bones back into the broth, and boil them until the broth is 
much reduced. Cut up the meat and put it into the jar with iie 
tongue, mace, pepper, &c., add a few small slices of ham; put the 
]ar into the oven covered, and let it stand some hours until the ti»n- 
tontf are thoroughly done ; then mix it with the brains beaten up 



BSOOKDABIr U&AtB. 6l 

with an egg. Put pieces of hard boiled egg in a mold, pour the 
mixture from the jar into it, and let it get entirely cold, then turn 
it ont. This dish can be made also with sheep^s head, carefully 
scalded and soaked. 

CALF^S HEAD HASH. 

Take a calf ^s head or half a one, as yon desire ; parboil it, cut 
off the best parts in slices, and set these aside for the hash. Put 
the rest, bones and all, with any other bones you may have, es- 
pecially a ham bone, each into the liquor with a bunch of sweet 
herbs, a sliced carrot, a fried onion, half head of celery, mace, 
salt, and peppercorns, according to taste. Let these ingredients 
stew gently together, nntil the liquor is so strong that, when it is 
cold, it will fi>rm a jelly. Strain it through a hair sicYC, and after- 
wards through a cloth, and when cold, remove all the fat which 
may rise to the top. Take of this jelly the quantity that may be 
required for gravy, put it into a sauce-pan, and add to it mushroom 
catsup, Worcester sauce, a little lemon peel, and Chili wine. Now 
put in the slices of meat, and let them warm gently, but do not let 
them boil. Before serving to table add, if you desire, a wine-glass 
of sherry, and a table-spoonful of brandy, and garnish with brain 
cakes and slices of lemon. Butter may be added, to the gravy to 
make it thicker. 

LAMB^S HEAD AND HINGE. 

Soak the head well in cold water and boil it a quarter of an hour. 
Parboil the heart, liver, and if desired, the lights ; mince them 
quite small, mix them with gravy, season them, pour them on sip- 
pets of toasted bread in a soup dish, broil the bread and lay if 
npon the mince. It can be garnished with sliced pickled cucum- 
ben and slioes of bacon. 

BRAIN CAKES. 

Wash the brains thoroughly, first in cold and afterwards in hot 
water; remove the skin and fibers, and then boil the brains io 
water with a little salt, for two or three minutes. Take them up 
and beat them in a basin with some ver}' finely chopped parsley, 
lifted sage, salt, mace, cavenne pepper, the well-beaten yolk of 



62 MOOlSn>AXt MlBAtfl. 

an egg, and a gill of cream. Drop them in small cakea into tfia 
flying pan, and fry them in butter a light brown color. A little 
flour and grated lemon peel are sometimes added. 

TBIPB. 

Tlie tripe, after being corned, should be soaked in salt and watei 
&Te or six days, changing the water every day ; then cut it in 
pieces, scrape it and rinse it. Boil it until quite tender, whidK 
will take half a day or more, and it will then be fit for broiling, 
&ying or pickling. Drop it into a jar of spiced vinegar. 

FBDED TRIFB. 

After being boiled, let it be quite cold ; cut it in pieces, roll 
them cornerwise, tie them with a thread, sprinkle a little salt and 
mace over them, roll them in eggs and crumbs, fi*y in fat a nice 
brown ; serve with onion sauce, with a little lemon and tomato 
catsup boiled in. 

STIEWIED TRIFS. 

Choose the thickest and whitest tripe, cut the white part into thin 
slices, and put them into a stewpan with a little white gravy, a 
spoonful of vinegar, a little lemon juice, and a little grated lemon 
peel. Add the yolk of an egg well beaten, with a little cream and 
chopped parsley, and two or three chives. Shake them together 
over a slow fire until the gravy is as thick as cream, but do not let 
it boil. Serve it with sippets, and garnish, if desired, with sliced 
lemon. 

BBAWN. 

Take the lower half of a pig's face, the feet and ears, rub then 
well with salt, let them remain so a week or ten days. Salt 
beef tongue the same way, for the same time. Then let the (ace 
ears, and feet boil half an hour in water enough to cover them ; 
take them out and clean them thoroughly, then put them back with 
the tongue also, and boil for three hours, or until the meat will slip 
from the bones. Then take it off, remove the bone, cut the meat in 
small pieces, the tongue into thin slices ; mix all together and seap 
with plenty of pepper, a little ground allspice, Ac. Then pot 



SECOVPABT MEATS. 63 

it into a mold in layers of fat and lean, press it down with a spoon, 
add a little liquor from the saucepan, put a heavy weight on the 
lop, and let it stand till next morning, when it is ready to turn out 
and send to table. It can be sent with a piece of white paper 
&8tened round and served, if desired, with a little sauce of mustard 
finegar, and brown sugar The beef tongue makes it mock 
nicer, though some omit it merely chopping the pig^s toagae wift 
}kt fiMie, ean md Ibei. 



FISH. 



TO BOIL nSK. 

Glean and rinse the fish, wrap it in a doth, and place it in te 

kettle with cold water, adding a little aalt ; boil slowly but constant- 
ly ; let the water always cover the fish, remove the scum that rises, 
add a little vinegar when nearly done. The fish is done when the 
Hesh can be separated from the back bone by running a thin sharp 
knife in ; be careful not to let the fish be overdone. Drain it dry 
on a sieve, keeping it hot ; lay it on the fish platter carefully, so as 
not to break it. Serve with sauces composed of drawn butter. 
If a fish kettle with strainer is used, the fish need not b^ wrapped 
in cloth. 

Fresh cod, haddock, whiting and shad, are better for being salt- 
ed the night before cooking them. The muddy smell that is some- 
times noticed in fresh water fish, is obviated by soaking it, after 
cleaning, in strong salt and water ; after which, dry it on a napkin, 
and dress it. 

TO FRY FI8H. 

Cleanse them thoroughly, dry them well, dip them in flour, or 
first in the beaten yolks of eggs, and then in grated bread crumbs ; 
fry in lard or beef drippings, or equal parts of lard and butter. 
Butter alone takes out the sweetness, and gives a bad color. TUm 
en both sides, and cook a rich yellow brown. Fried parsley, grated 
horse-radish, or slices of lemon are used as garnish. The fat fri(H) 
firom salt pork is good to fry fish in. Some fish can be dipped in 
Indian meal instead of Hour, if preferred. Trout and perch sb9u4^ 
not be dipped in Indian i^^en}. 



/ 

WHiTB /I8H BROILED. (i/oAv Superior tiyle,) 

This is one of the most delicious of lake fish. Cut it in two pieoM 
^wn through the centre of the back, lay in a pan, and cover with 
oold water, into which you have put a table-spoonful of salt. Let 
i lay for two hours, this makes 't %id . Then take it out, wrap it 
in a dry cloth, and let it remain until ready for rooking. Have a nice 
bed of coals,, grease your gridiron well, put on a little salt, and 
tome pepper. BroU for twenty minutes, or half an hour, accord* 
iDg to size, turning it to brown on both sides. It will not break in 
pieces. Serve with white sauce. 

WHiTK FISH BOILED. (Lake Superior style.) 

This is a very delicate, and highly esteemed dish. Place the 
fish whole, in a fish kettle ; cover with cold water, add a table- 
spoonful or more of salt, and let it come to a boil. Ten minutes 
after it boils, will cook it. Take it out carefully, serve with egg 
sauce, which is white sauce, with a hard boiled egg chopped up 
m it. 

BOnJED SALMON. 

Draw the ^h into the form of the letter S, by running a thread 
tfaroogh the tail, centre of the body and head ; or if it is part of a 
fish, fold it in a dean doth. When bent, cut two or three slant- 
ing gashes on each side, to prevent the skin breaking and disfigur- 
mg the fish. Plunge it in boiling water in which a handful of salt 
to four quarts of water has been mixed, and the scum arising fix>m 
it skimmed off. Put in with the fish, a little horse radish. Boil 
until very well done, about quarter of an hour to every pound of 
fish ; and serve with lobster, or white parsley sauce ; garnish with 
•liced lemon. For vegetables, mashed potatoes, and cucumbert 
•lioed in vinegar, can be served. A salmon should be chosen for 
itf brightness of color, complete covering of scales, firmness of 
flesh, whitness of the belly, brightness of the eye, and redness ot 
tbe scales. Artifidal means, it is said, are sometimes adopted to 
give redness to the gills of salmon and other fish, to deceive in* 
•iperieooed biiyers. 



KBOnWD UUiOK. 

Aboul an inch, is the proper thiokiMH to cut the bHom; dij 
them «ith a cloth, put salt on tbepi, and hty them akin ride down, 
jn a gridiron over hot coab. Before lijing on the fiih, rub tba 
bars with lani, to prevent them etjckiug. When broiled mffia- 
enllj on one side, turn the fish, by lajing a plate upon it and 
tumiug the gridiron over; then slip the salmon from the plate on 
to the gridiron. This prevents its breaking. 

SALMON AMD SALAD. 

The remaius of boiled aalmoD, instead of being pickled, ai im 
nnalljr ditM ; are very good «ent to table cold, to be eaten with 
•alad. Trim the fish neatlj, ornament it with sprigs of parslejr, 
and serve with a bowl of salad, made as fbllows : Boil a cauli- 
flower till about two thirds done ; let it get cold, break it in btiDcii- 
es, lay them in a dish, and put to it salt, pepper, ml, and nn^^. 
Tbis is an excellent dish in hot weather. 



Lay the fish on its ride and cut it from tul to bead, taking oan 
not to injm^ the belly by inserting the knife too far; wash the fith 
well, take oDt the eyes, and pot a pinch of salt in th^r place; then 
■prinkle a handliil or two of brown sugar over the inside, and 
above the sugar the same quantity, or rather more, of common 
■alt ; lay the salmon on a flat board, the inride up ; cover with a 
cloth and let it remun twenty-four hours (or if wished saltish, 
thirty-six) inadryplace.neitbertoo hot nor too cold. If the weath- 
er is fine, an hour or two of exposure to the son and air will accel- 
erate the curing process. The kipper is in perfection after it has 
been dried tweutf-foor boars, but it will keep a considerable time. 
To cook it, cat it in slices, wrap each in a piece of pt^Mr and fij 
it; send it to the table in pif>er. 



■ad vinegar, enough to 



67 

of maoe, Iwehre bay leavea. When the salmon baa boiled enough, 
drain and hj it on a doth, put more sabnon into the kettle and 
boil ; continue doing tUs till all is done. When all is cold, pack 
the fish, and cover with pickle ; place something heavy upon the 
fish to keep it down, that it may be covered entirely with the pickle, 
wkdch most be occasionally poured off and scalded. Cover it doao- 
\y to keep it firom the air. 

BBOHJBD SHAD. 

Shad should be baked, fined or broiled. For broiling, remove 
the roes,- dean and dry thoroughly, cut into straight halves, and 
lay with the roes on a well-heated and well-greased gridiron, over 
a moderate fire ; put the cover on so that it will cook through while it 
b browning, and only tm*n once ; when it is done remove it to a 
warm dish, spread over a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a 
little pepper and salt, and put it, for a moment, in the oven ; gar- 
nish with sprigs of firesh parsley before serving. 

FRIED SHAD. 

Divide the two halves in pieces two or three inches wide, salt and 
pepper them and put them in a pan, in which the fiit, to keep them 
fix>m sticking, has already been m^de boiling hot ; fiy a rich brown 
on both sides, cooking the inside first, and serve hot. The roes 
maj be fined in the same way. 

BAKBD SHAD 

Baked shad does not require to be cut down the back ; only 
efeaned, the roes removed, and the inside filled with a staffing 
made of bread crumbs, salt pork, an onion, sage, thyme, parsley, 
and pepper and salt ; chop all together fine, fill and sew up the 
shad, and place in a pan with three or four slices of the pork over 
it, and the roes at the side ; bake one hour, and you will have a 
dish fit for an editor. 

SHAD BIAITRB D^HOTBL. 

Butter a pan and lay the shad in it, with an onion sliced, a ba^ 
lea( five doves, the juice of half a lemon, a spoonfiil of vinegar, 
■sd tw0 of gravy ; make four or five incisions on both sides of iki$ 



68 MEATS. 

shad, cutting down to the bone, cover with battered paper, aud 
put into a rather slow oven ; let it bake twenty minutes, then take i 

it out, remove the paper, baste thoroughly and put it back ; let it 
remain in the oven altogether about three quarters of an hour, or 
an hour if the fish is a large one, basting frequently with the liquor 
m the pan ; then take it out, fill the incisions with chopped parslej 
and butter, and put back, while making a sauce of a little batter« 
Hour, broth, and lemon juice, into which po ir all the liquid sur- 
rounding the shad ; boil up once, dish the fish, and pour the sauce 
over it. 

FBBSH MAGKBREL. 

This is a Spring luxur}% Purchased in the city they are already 
cleaned, and require only to be rolled in a clean cloth, put in cold 
water, and cooked for five minutes, afler coming to a boil ; serve 
with parsley sauce, made with a table-spoonful of flour, mixed 
smooth with cold milk, and a piece of butter the size of a small 
egg 9 garnish with green parsley , and eat with stewed gooseberries. 

SOUSED MACKEREL. 

Take fresh mackerel, well cleaned, and boil them for a few min- 
utes, or until tender, in salt and water. Take of the water in which 
they were boiled, half as much as will cover them ; add the same 
amount of good vinegar, some whole pepper, cloves, and a blade 
or two of mace. Pour over hot. In twelve hours it will be ready 
for use. Shad is very nice soused in the same way. 

BOILED BASS, ROCK FISH, ETC. 

These should be boiled plain, leaving on the head and tail. Le* 
ihcm boil steadily half an hour, serve with drawn butter nuxed 
with finely chopped eggs, which have been boiled three quarters ol 
an hour. 

PICKED UP CODUSH and POTATOES. 

This is as old and esteemed a dish as pork and beans. Pol 
your salted codfish in soak the night before ; pick it off in shredi 
the next morning, and scald it in a sauctpan, pouring off the wa- 
ter just before it comes to a boil ; this will freshen it sufiloiently 



- — --■ ^^ 



WIAM. 69 

Pat in then a liule more water, a small piece of butter, and a 
few shakes of pepper, and let it cook till it is tender. When it is 
done, tliicken it with a beaten egg but don^t allow it to boil ; and 
inix it with double its bulk in potatoes, mashed finely with milk, 
and season with pepper and a little salt. Pile up as near like a 
Ita} stack as possible, pour over the whole some good egg saucei 
(ind garnish with parsley and egg rings. 

BAKSSD COD, BLACK FISH, HADDO<::«, ETC. 

Spread little slices of bread with butter ; pepper and salt them 
and lay them inside the fish. Then take a needle and thread and 
sew it up. Put a small skewer through the lip and tail, and fasten 
them together with a piece of twine. Lay it into a dish, in which it 
it may be served ; put two or three thin slices of salt pork upon it, 
sprinkle salt over it, and flour it well. Baste it several times with the 
iiquor which cooks out of it. A flsh weighing four pounds will cook 
in an hour. 

BROILBD WHITINGS. 

Make a brine with salt and w.iter, sprigs of parsley, shallots and 
onions, and let the whole boil together for half an hour ; strain it 
and boil the whitings in it, adding a third part of milk. Drain them 
when done, and make the following sauce for them : A piece of 
butter, some flour, two ' whole green shallots, pepper, and salt. 
Thicken this with cream ; take out the shallots, and pour the sauce 
over the whitings. 

WATER SOUCHT, OB BOODJBB. 

This mode of dressing fish may be used for soles, flounders, and 
also fresh water fish of almost any description. The fish should be 
thoroughly cleansed and put into a stew-pan, with sufiSicient cold 
water for broth, a very smaL quantity of white wine vinegar, and 
tome salt. While boiling they must be carefully skimmed ; and 
when thoroughly done, served in the liquor in which they were 
boiled; to which should be added some roots of parsley, cut, 
trimmed, and boiled. A few parsley leaves, boiled to a nice 
green, should be strewed over the fish, and bread and batter senl 
iq[» to eat with the soachy. 



to rauL 



TBDED OOD AMD HADDOCK. 

Gut the fish in pieces about the size as to help at table ; waih and 
wipe them dry, roll them in Indian meal. Fry some pieces of salt 
Vork ; take out the pork, and put into the frying-pan some laid ; 
vhen it is quite hot put in the fish and fry it a light brown ; dish it 
with the fried pork, senre with drawn butter. 

COD OB SALMON CUTLETS. 

To one and a half pounds of cold boiled fish, put half a pound 
of cold potatoes, half a pound of butter ; pepper, salt, and a little 
mace, and some anchovy sauce. Found all these together in a 
mortar, thoroughly. When well beaten, make the mixture into 
the shape of small cutlets, dip them in egg and bread crumbs, and 
fry them until they are of a light brown color. They are excellent 
as a side dish or eniree. 

nSH BOBS IN GASB8. 

Put the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel or shad 
into paper cases, with shred parsley, a little rasped bread, butter, 
salt, and pepper. Bake them, and serve them up with lemon juice 
squeezed over them. 

SMALL FISH FRICA8SEBD. 

Fry the fish a nice brown color, and drain them. Take another 
small fish, remove all the meat from it, and chop it fine, mixing 
with it a little grated bread, some lemon peel, chopped parsley, 
pepper, salt, nutmeg, the yolks of an egg, and a little butter; 
make this up into small balls and fry them. Into some good gravy 
thickened with flour, put some red wine, and boil- it up adding 
cayenne pepper, catsup, and lemon juice; place the fish and balls 
in it, simmer them a few moments, and serve, garnished with 
lemon. 

TRENTON FALLS FRY. 

Let some small fish soak in the juice of two lemons, with salt, 
pepper, and chopped sweet herbs. After taking them out, drain 
them, and stuff them with crumbs of bread, boiled in milk, and 



i 



filfttt. tl 

keat up with the yolks of two eggs ; then sprinkle them with floor, 
and fry them of a good color. Serve them up on fHed parsley. 
They should b^ very dry and crisp. 

FISH AND MACABONI 

Bub the inside of a mold with fresh batter, and strew grated 
(jlieese at the bottom of it to the thickness of about an inch ; then 
put in a layer of macaroni of about the same thickness. Upoi 
this lay some fish of whatever kind preferred, boned, cut in pieces, 
and strewed with parsley, thyme, and shallots finely chopped ; also 
some pounded spices and cayenne pepper, adding another layer ol 
macaroni and cheese. Bake it for an hour in a moderate oven, 
carefidlyjfcum it out into a dish, and serve it up with a little good 
stock gravy round it. 

FISH Ain> ICACARONI. 

Bon the macaroni in water until tender, drain it, and cut it into 
short pieces. Remove the bones and skin from any kind of white 
boiled fish, tear it into small pieces, and mix it with the macaroni. 
Then make a sauce of two ounces of butter, the yolks of one or 
two eggs, salt, pepper and a little lemon juice. Heat this in a 
sauce-pan, pouring m half a pint of good melted butter, stir it* and 
put in the fish and macaroni. When hot, pour it out in a dish; 
heaping it in the centre ; sprinkle fine bread crumbs over it and 
bake the top a light brown color in the oven. 

FBIED SMELTS. 

Split them just far enough to clean them ; lay them in salt and 
water, and let them remain an hour ; then wash and wipe them, 
have ready two eggs beat up in a plate, and some cracker crumbs 
in another plate ; put about two pounds of lard into the fi'ying 
IMm ; set it on the fire until it is very hot ; dip the smelts into the 
eggs, roll them in the crumbs, and put them into the boiling fiU ; 
fry tiiem a light brown ; serve them hot, with drawn butter. 

FRESH HERRINGS 

llitie 3an be broiled or fiied. After scaling and cleaning them 
motif f split ibem quite qpeii, wash the insides with care, dx^r tbeoi 



72 irtsa. 

in a cloth, remove the head, tail and back Lones^ nib the insidei 
with pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace ; stick small bits of 
batter on them ; skewer two of the fish together as flat as possible 
the skin of both outside ; flour and boil them in twenty to twenty* 
five minutes, or fry them about ten minutes, until brown ; and serve 
with melted butter mixed with a tea-spoonful of mustard, some salt, 
And a little vinegar or lemon juice. 

TO DRESS FISH A SECOND TIME. 

Put four table spoonsful of bread crumbs to a small quantity of 
fish ; add two eggs, two ounces of butter, a little essence of ancho- 
vy, and a little pepper, salt and cayenne. Mix these all well with 
the fish, which should previously be taken from the bones, and steam 
it until it is heated through. Any cold boiled fish may be dressed 
this way. 

FISH PUDDING. 

Take cold boiled fish, the part that is white, and mashed pota- 
toes, an equal quantity ; mix well together, breaking the fish very 
fine ; add two ounces of melted butter, or cream instead of the 
butter ; season with salt and pepper. Butter a pudding dish, pat 
the mixture in, keeping the top rough, and put it in the oven till 
heated through, and the top nicely browned. 

CHOWDER. 

For a capital Spring chowder, put a layer of fi^sh fish, cod, or 
haddock ; then a layer of split crackers, sliced onions, and raw 
potatoes sliced very thin ; strew a little salt and pepper over this 
layer ; then put in more pork and fish, crackers, onions, and pota- 
toes, and so on, until the ingredients are exhausted ; over this 
mixture pour a bowl of liquid, composed of two table-spoons of 
flour, mixed smooth wiJi milk and water ; add milk and watei to 
Ihe flour until there is sufficient to just cover the contents of the 
pot ; oover down tigk and cook slowly two or three houn. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Pkto, and cat into slices, seven or eight potatoes, and pat them 
m » basin of cold water; cut a firc«h cod mto slioof, tbeo fty • 



kiW slices of fat salt pork ; lay the pork in the bottom of the stew 
kettJe ; place two or three slices of fish on it, then a layer of spbt 
iarackers, then some potatoes, and so on, with alternate layers, 
antil tbu kettle is full ; put in a little pepper and salt. Put in a 
^utrt of water ; mix one table-spoonful of flour, in half a pint of 
water, and pour in, after it begins to stew. Cover very tight, and 
fltew three hours. 

FISH OAKBS. 

Mix together a pound and a half of mashed potatoes, a pound 
of cold boiled fish, either salt or fresh ; add a little milk and butter, 
one egg if desired ; pepper, onions, and a little chopped thyme, 
and salt if the fish requires it ; sprinkle on a little flour, and fry 
them a light brown in small, thick cakes. 

STEWIED SALT GOD. 

Soak and scald the fish until sufiiciently freshened ; pick it into 
shreds, and stew it with milk to moisten it, a little butter rolled in 
flour, and pepper to taste. Stew gently a few minutes, and serve 
hot. 

CAFE COD CHOViTDIER. 

Fry some slices of sweet, salt pork till they are crisp ; pour off 
part of the fat ; take out the rashers and set them aside, where 
t)iey will keep hot. Put in a layer of potatoes first, with a little 
onion, then pepper, then a layer of butter crackers, then a layer 
of fish, then a little more fat, more potatoes, more onion, more 
pepper, more butter crackers, more fish, and so on until the ket- 
tle is two thirds full ; then put on top whatever fat may be left ; 
fiU up with water, cover close, and let it cook an hour or an hour 
and a half, according to quantity. A little salt may be required. 
Serve with the rashers placed round the dish on toast and picUe. 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

This is made in the same way, only they require a greal dad 
of pork, and be careful to get soft shell dams. 

SALT CODFISH Ain> POTATOES. 

8otk a thick piece of fish oyer night, pour out tbe viler $td 

4 



74 vtstt. 

cover it with fi'esh, lukewarm water, and let it stand a short tune . 
then put it in lukewarm water over the fire and let it simmer, but 
n^t boil, for an hour and a half or two hours, until it is done ; re 
move the skin; serve with drawn butter or egg sauce, with whok 
boiled potatoes to be mashed or cut by each person with th^ fish, 
OE their own plate. Serve also, if convenient, cucumbers in vin- 
egar, pickles or nasturtiums. The fish can be garnished with hard 
boiled eggs. The cold fish left, will make a fine hash, or may be 
preiMred in fish cakes. 



8HELL FISH, EELS, Bie. 



OTSTEBfl ETIQUETTE. 



Frwsare two dozen oysters. Have them opened, and tlirow 
them into a clean basin or soup plate. Take a small bonch of 
parslej, chopped quite small, a little raw lemon rind ditto, half a 
nutmeg grated, and the crumb of a stale French roll, also grated. 
Let the latter be well mixed together, adding one drachm of cay- 
enne pepper. Have at hand the yolks of three fresh eggs, beaten 
np into a fluid ; dip the oysters separately into the eggs, and roU 
them in the crumb of the loaf until they are all encased in a bread 
coating or coTcring. Put a quarter of a pound of good butter into 
the OTon, with a brisk fire, until the former is fully melted, arranging 
your oysters on the tray of the oven at your couYenience.' Keep 
the oysters continually turned until they assume a perfectly brown, 
crusty appearance. When fully baked, serve them up with a 
plate of bread and butter, cut thin, and use salt at discretion. A 
stick of celery eaten with them, adds greatly to the relish which the 
fish impart when served in this way. 

BTEWED OT8TBR8. 

Boil up the oysters in their own liquor, with a piece of batter 
±e size of a walnut, and pepper and salt to taste. Have ready a 
pint or more of rich boiled milk, the quantity according to the 
umber of oysters. Pour it hot into the soup tureen, and as the 
oysters come to a boil, skim them, let them boil up once, and thea 
pour them into the milk. 

SCALLOPED OTSTBB8. 

Wash out of the liqaor two quarts of oysters ; pound vety fiat 
a^l^ foft crackers, or grate a stale loaf of bread ; butter a deep 



76 SHELL FISH, BELS, ETC. 

dish, sprinkle in a layer of crumbs, then a layer of oysters, a little 
mace, • pepper, and bits of butter ; another layer of crumbs, an- 
othei of oysters, then seasoning as before, and so on until the dish 
8 filled; cover the dish over with bread crumbs, seasoning aa 
oeforc ; turn over it a cup of the oyster liquor.. Set it in the oven 
for thirty or forty minutes to brown. This is an excellent way to 
fuepare oysters for a family dinner. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Select fine, large oysters, dry them out of their own hquor. 
Have ready a plate of egg, and a plate of bread crumls. Let 
them lay in the egg a few minutes, and then roll them in the 
bread crumbs, allowing them to remain in these also, for jl minute 
or two ; this will make them adhere, and not come off as a skin, 
when in the pan. Fry in half butter and half lard, in order to 
give them a rich brown. Make it very hot before putting the oys- 
ters in. ^ 

OYSTER PIES. 

Take a deep dish, cover it with puff paste, lay an extra layer 
around the edge of the dish, put in the oven and bake nicely. 

» 

When done, fill the pie with oysters ; season with butter, salt, and 
pepper, sprinkle a little Hour over them and cover with a thin crust 
of puff paste ; bake quickly ; when the top crust is done, the oys- 
ters should be. Serve immediately. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Beard the oysters, and, if large, halve theih; put them into a 
saucepan with a piece of butter rolled in flour, some finely shred 
lemon rind, and a little white pepper, and milk, and a portion of 
the liquor fi'om the fish ; stir all well together, let it simmer for a 
few minutes, and put it in your patty pans, which should be al- 
ready prepared with a puff paste in the usual way. Serve hot or 
cold. 

OYSTER LOAVES. 

Cut out a piece of the size of a quarter of a dollar firom the top 
of half a dozen buns, scoop out most of the crumb, put a portion 
•f the latter with a good bit of butter, and about two dozen fresb 



1 

! 

I 



Sfi£LL FISH, BSL8, XTO. . 77 

oysters into a fr}nng pan and fry all together for five minaies, add 
a little cream or milk and seasoning. Then fill the loayes, %llow« 
mg four oysters to each ; replace the pieces of crust on tho topa, 
butter the outsides, and place them for a short time in aji oven tft 
get crisp. Serve them hot or cold. 

OTSTSBS AND MACABOia. 

Slowly stew some macaroni in good gravy till quite tender j 
then lay it in a pie dish, pot in a good layer of fresh oysters, beard- 
ed ; add pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and a tea-spoon« 
ful of cream, or oliFd oil if preferred. Strew bread crumbs over, 
and just brown it in a tolerably brisk oven. Serve with plenty of 
lemon juice, or a sauce piguanU, 

OTSTBRS FOB LUXCH. 

Take a fine oyster, wrap it thinly with bacon, fitstening it with 
a little skewer. Lay it on a piece of toast, and put into a Dutch 
oven or a hot stove oven, a very little time. Prepare as many in 
this way as desired. 

FICKUED OTSTERS. — ^No 1. 

Wash fifty large oysters in their own liquor ; wipe them dry, 
strain the liquor off, add to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, the 
same of mace, the same of salt, the same of whole cloves, and a 
pint of vinegar. Let the oysters come to a boil in the liquor, then 
drain them off with a skimmer ; put them into a jar ; boil the jnckle 
Qp, skim it, and when it is cold, pour over the oysters. They wi0 
be ready for use in twenty-four hours. 

PICKLED OY8TEBS. — ^No. 2. 

Put the oysters, say two hundred, with their juice, into a laig« 
saucepan on the fire ; let them simmer, but not boil, until tlie edges 
early and they become sohd, but not shriveled. Be careftd abool 
Hob. Strain off the juice, and wipe the oysters with a nice, doaii 
doth. Let the juice settle, then pour off about a quart, leaving 
tfie sediment undisturbed ; to this clear juice add one pint while 
wine, or other vinegar, a little mace, two dozen cloves, and a 
kandfbl of black peppers. Heat it over the fire, but donH let H 



78 8HBLL FIBH, BSLfl, VTO. 

bdl ; pour it while hot, over the oysters. Pat them in a stoiM 
jar, and in two days they will be very nice for use. 

8TBWBD BCUSGIOBS. 

Open the muscles in their own liquor. When ready for UM 
drain off the liquor and wash them in clear water. Then add to 
die liquor, or as much of it as is needed, an equal amount of water 
%r.d of white wine, a blade of mace and a little whole pepper; boil 
tliem, and after awhile drop in the muscles, letting them just boil 
up., and thicken them with a piece of butter and flour. They can 
be served with sippets of bread and the liquor. 

FRIED EELS. 

After the eels have been skinned and cleaned, split them open 
and cut them in short pieces. Then make a pickle of vinegar, 
lemon juice, sliced onion, salt and pepper ; place the eels in it and 
>et them lie two or three hours. Boll them in flour and fry in lard 
or daiified butter. Place them on the table dry, with fried pars- 
'ey «8ing plain butter for sancc 

Take two pounds of eels, iooar tiieir skins with sand and salt, 
wipe them dry with flannel, gut them, cut them into short pieces, 
saturate them with the beaten yolk of an egg, and then roll into a 
plate containing crumbs of the inside of stale bread, chopped 
pvsley, a sprig of sweet marjoram, a sprig of bruised anchovy, half 
a nutneg grated, and some cayenne pepper, and salt all mixed, 
^lien well rubbed in these, baste them before a dear bright fire, 
With plenty of butter, until they are covered with a brown crust 
Serve them with plain or melted butter for sauce. 

COLLA.RED EELS. 

Select a large eel, gut it and bone it without skinning it, and 
fab the inside with salt, pepper, mace, allspice, powdered dotes* 
diopped sage. Parsley, thyme, savory and knotted marjoram 
also improve the taste. Roll it tight, tie it, and boil it well in salt 
^wilier Then add yinegar, and when cold keep it in pickle. 



J 



ittmx nsH, naoj^ Ma 19 



flFKWXD XSL8. 

Wtth the eels well, and cat into pieces two or three inches long. 
JPIaoe them in the pan with an onion, cloves, a bundle of sweel 
her1)a. a blade of mace, some whole pepper in a muslin rag, and 
add enough water for sauce. Let them stew softly, and add the 
joice of half a lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Whev 
thej are tender, take out the onion, cloyes, herbs, mace, and pefh 
per, put in sufficient salt to season, and serve it with the sauce. 

BOILED XBLS. 

Boil them in a little water with some parsley until tender, sea- 
son them properly, and serve them with the liquor and the parsley. 
Use chopped parsley and butter for sauce. 



Cut up the eels in one or two inch lengths, line the dish with 
potato paste, such as used for meat pies ; put in the eels, season 
with pepper, salt, parsley, and a little butter. Pour over a little 
stock, or a few spoonsful of gravy, a spoonful of mushroom catsup, 
and dredge with flour. Cover with potato paste, and bake an 
hour and a quarter. This is for fiunily use ; if company is exp^d^ 
ed, a richer paste may be used. 

LOBSTKRS. 

To choose lobsters that are boiled, select those that are heaviest^ 
and of a middling size ; if they are fresh the tail will flap back wHb 
a springy motion, when raised up. 

TO BOIL A FRBflH LOBSTER. 

Put it into a fish kettle of boiling water, into which a hantfiul 
of salt has been thrown ; boil it briskly for half an hour, then wipe 
off the skum, and rub over it a little sweet oil. When cold, break 
off the daws, and crack the shell, but do not disturb the meat: 
fMl the body upright in the dish, wii!i the daws and tail around it 

MRS. ICAJOB D.^S LOB0TEB SALAD. 

Bou Hbo lobster about half an hour. When it is oold, lak* ¥ 



80 sttiBix nsUi siBLa, sto. 

from the shell, being careful to take oat the yein in the back, 'to 
fix lbs of lobster, take two heads of salad, one cup of melted 
batter ; two table-spoons of mustard, mixed with a little vinegar 
Salt and pepper to taste. Chop these together, and spread on s 
flat dish. Then beat six eggs, and mix with half a pint of vine> 
gar. Vnt this on the stove to thicken, stirring oonstantlj ; whoi) 
€old spread it over the lobster. 
For another receipt, see '* Salads.^ 

CRABS AND CRAYFISH. 

TheM are boiled in the same manner as lobsters. 

LOBSTBR SAUCB. 

Mash the fresh eggs of a hen lobster ; strain, and reserve ; di- 
vide the flesh into small pieces, dust it with flour to prevent it ad- 
hering together, and put it into a white sauce, allowing it to simmer 
for a minute, before puttmg in the eggs ; when these have been 
added, it will assume a brilliant red, and should be removed from 
die fire instantly, before it has time to darken. Such flavor as 
anchovy, or lemon, may be added at the table. 

CRAB AND LOBSTBR CUTLETS. 

Take out the meat of either a large lobster, or crab, mince It, 
and add two ounces of butter browned with two spoonfuls of flour, 
and seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne ; add again 
about half a pint of strong stock, stir the mixture over the fire 
until quite hot, lay it in separate table-spoonsful on a large dish. 
When they are cold, form them into the shape of cutlets, brush 
Uiem over with the beaten yolk of an e^ ; dip them into grated 
bread crumbs, fry them of a light brown color in clarified beef drip- 
ping, and place them round a dish, with a little fiied parsley in the 
centre. 

LOBSTER BALU9. 

Ifinoe the meat with the coral, season, make it in balls mixed 
with bread crumbs and butter, dip them with the yolk of an egg 
and floor if desired, and fry them brown in hot lard ; for lobster 
pittieSf pkoe minced lobster in the shell in puff paste, and bako* 



1 



SHBLL FISH, BBUS, BTa 81 



L0B8T1EB CURRY. 

Put the meat of a large lobster into a stew-pan with a blade ol 
maoe, a large cup ol' veal stock or gnrj, and a table-spoonful ol 
oom starch, mixed smooth with a little milk, or cream. Add salt, 
a small piece of butter, a aessert-^poouf ul of cuny powder, asd 
At JQioe of half a lemou : simmer for an hour, and senn. 



ItUSHBOOMB 



HOW TO KNOW MUSHBOOMS. 

To know the mushroi in from the poisonous toadstool^ observe 
the mushroom has no bad smell, that its top skin will readily peel 
off; there is a thick meat between the skin and the red gills or 
plates ; the gills are of a pinkish or rosy hue, though turning 
brownish by age, but are never of the lurid brown of the toad- 
stool ; when sprinkled with salt and allowed to stand, the mush- 
room gives out juice, the toadstool becomes dry and leathery. 

MUSHROOM FRICASSBB. 

Put a quart of fresh mushrooms, cleaned, into a saucepan, with 
three spoonsful of water, three of milk, and a little salt, and set 
them on a quick fire. Let them boil up three times, after which 
take them off and mix in half a pint of milk, a piece of butter 
rolled in flour, and a little grated nutmeg. Put them into the 
saucepan, shaking it well occasionally, and when the liquor is diick, 
stirring them carefully in the saucepan with a spoon, all the time, 
and seeing that they do not curdle. 

MUSHROOM FOWBEB. 

Wash half a peck of large mushrooms quite dean from gni, 
and cut off the stalks. Put them in a saucepan, without water, 
containing a quarter of an ounce of mace, two spoonsful of pound- 
ed pepper, two onions stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some 
•Uspice and nutmeg, if liked, and a quarter of a pound of butter. 
T^et this stew till the liquor is dried up, then place them on sieves 
antil they are sufficiently dry to be beaten to a powder. Bottle 
tfiis aiid ocosely cork it. To give a good flavor to soup or gravy, 



MtrSttROOHB. SS 

ft tea-flpoouful of the powder must be added a minute or two before 
it ia takeu from the fire. 

BniSHROOM POWDER. — 2. 

Wipe the mushrooms clean and nare the skin from the laxgt 
ones. Put them on paper, and place them in a cool oven to dry. 
I My them before the fire until crisp, then grind and sift them 
through a fine sieve, and keep the powder in small closely corked 
bottles. 

BfUSHROOM LOAVES. 

Well wash some small button mushrooms, such as are generally 
used for pickling, and boil them for a few minutes in a very little 
water. Add to them a small quantity of cream, a piece of butter 
rolled in some flour, salt and pepper, then boil up all together 
again. Cut off a piece firom the end of some rolls, scoop out the 
crumb ; in its place put the prepared mushrooms, and replace the 
end of each roll. 

BfUSHROOM TOAST. 

Bemove the stems, and red inside, and skins, from a pint of 
freshly gathered mushrooms. Dissolve a little butter in a stew- 
pan, throw in the mushrooms, season with cayenne pepper, and 
toss them over the fire for about ten minutes ; add a tea-spoonful 
of flour, and stir until all is slightly browned. Cut a crust about 
an inch thick firom the under part of a loaf: scoop it out in the 
centre ; butter it, and boil it over a brisk fire ; then place it upon 
a hot dish before the fire. Pour in by degrees a tea-cupfnl of 
cream or new milk to the mushrooms ; flavor with a few drops of 
catsup ; stew gently for two minutes, and pour them into the crust. 
8erf6 hot. 

STEWED MUSHROOMS. 

Choose large button mushrooms, wipe them with a wet flannel, 
and put them into a stew-pan with a little water. Let them stew 
gently for a quarter of an hour ; then put in a pinch of salt, work 
a little flour and butter to make it as thick as cream. Let it boil 
for five minutes, and before dishing it up, add two large table* 



84 MUSHKOOHS. 

spoonsfbl of cream mixed with the yolk of one egg. Shake the 
sauce-pan over the fire for a minute or so, to warm the contents, 
but do not allow them to boil, for fear they might curdle. Put 
iome sippets around the inside of the dish, and serve hot. fFw 
fickled musliroooui, tee PScUae.l 



rOWLS AND GAME. 



BOAST TUBKET. 

Have a stuffing prepared of bread crumbe, sausage meat, oi 
•^#eet salt pork, chopped fine, th3rme, summer sarory, and one 
onion ; with pepper, and salt in about equal proportions. If the 
iiTer and heart are not used with the gizzard, to make the graTy, 
they also may be chopped, and mixed with the stuffing. FiU the 
body, sew up the opening, truss it, and if you choose, place a ring 
of sausages round the neck of the turkey. Put in the pan with a 
cup of hot water ; roast slowly at first, and baste firequently ; if 
there is danger of scorching, cover the breast with white paper. 
It will require, if of good size, two and a half to three hours to 
roast ; and should be served with a rich brown gravy^ and with the 
sausages browned and lying on the breast. If sausages are not 
liked, thin slices of sweet salt pork should be Liid over the breast, 
and round the neck. 

BOILED FOWL. 

Boil the liver, gizzard, heart and lower part of the legs, in a very 
litde water, chop them fine, mix them with drawn butter and 
bread crumbs, and season with salt, summer savory, and a little 
pepper. Stuff the fowl with this ; put it in sufficient water to cover 
k well, and stew it gently until tender ; serire with drawn buttor, 

ROAST DUCKS. 

Clean and truss them nicely, and fill their bodies with a stuffing 
made of half mashed potatoes, and half sage, and omons, wiJJ 



86 FOWLS Atny gaks. 

seasoned with peppei and salt. Baste them with slices of sweet 
fat pork in the pan, and baste frequently. Make a rich gravy. 
inic which put a table-spoonsful of Worcestershire sauce. Serve 
with apple sauce. 
For a change pne of a pair of ducks may be stuffed with prunes. 

ROAST FOWL. 

» 

The fowl being drawn, and prepared, fill the body with a drefib- 
ing of brea.l and butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and summer 
savory ; sew up the opening, truss it, oil it with butter, roast it 
rather fast without scorching, the first half hour, heating all sides 
evenly ; baste it all over every five minutes, and after that, roast 
rather slowly three quarters of an hour or more, until the fbwl is 
done through. If not sufficiently browned, wet it over with a little 
yolk of egg, sprinkle it with flour, and let it stand a little longer, 
till browned evenly. 

BOILBD FOWL. 

Divide the fowl at the back, lay the sides open, and skewer the 
wings as for roasting. Boil over a clear fire, seasoning with pepper, 
sah, and a little butter. Serve them immediately, on a hot dish. 

MB. DEMORBST^S CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Prepare a couple of nice plump chickens ; joint them, dividing 
the wings, side, breast, and backbones, and let them lie in clear 
water half an hour ; remove them then to a stew-pan, with half a 
pound of good, sweet salt pork cut up in pieces ; barely cover with 
water, and simmer on the top of the stove or range for three 
hours ; when sufficiently tender, take out the chicken, mix a table- 
spoonful of flour smoothly with cold milk, and add a little fine 
dried or chopped parsley, sage, and thyme, oi summer savory, and 
stir gradually into the liquor ; keep stirring till it boils ; season 
witk pepper and salt to taste ; and then put back the chicken and 
let it boil up for a few moments in the gravy ; garnish with the 
green tops of celery. 

BOILBD OOOSB. 

Drest and singe it, put it into a deep dish, cover it with boTJim 



FOWLS AKB aAHX. 87 

milk and leave it all night. In the morning wash off the milk and 
put the goose into cold water on the fire ; when boiling hot take it 
off, wash it in warm water, and dry it with a cloth. This process 
"vkes out the taste of oil. Fill the body with a dressing of bread 
crumbs seasoned with pepper, salt, and butter, two chopi^d onions 
if n«lishe<l, and a little sage, and close it. Put it into cold walei 
tn'i boil gently until tender, about an hour. Serve with gibl«i 
muce, and with pickles, or acid jellies. For vegetables have beets, 
turnips and cauliflower. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

Make a dressing of two ounces of onion, an ounce of green 
sage chopped fine, a coffee cup of bread crumbs, a little pepper, 
and salt; do not quite fill the goose, but leave room to swell. 
The yolks of two eggs can be added to the dressing, if desired. 
Roast two hours or less, and serve with gravy and apple sauce. 

DUCK, WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Roast a duck until about half done. Place it into a stew-pan, 
with a pint of good gravy, and a very little sage ; cover it close, 
and let the duck continue to simmer in the pan, for half an hour ; 
then put in a pint of boiled green peas ; the peas are put in the 
pan to thicken the gravy.' Place the duck on a dish, and pour the 
gravy and peas over it. 

NEW YORK MOCK DUCK. 

Frocore a good rump steak, fill it with duck stufiing, bread, a 
little sweet salt pork, sage, chopped onions, and pepper, and salt; 
roll it up, skewer the ends .'ight ; tie a string round the middle, and 
<simmer with a little stock, in a covered pan, for two hours ; take it 
/'Jt, put in the oven, and bake for another hour without cover. 

TURKEY STEWED WITH CELERY. 

Choose a fine hen-turkey, and stuff it with some force meat as 
for veal, viz : four ounces of bread crumbs, the grated rind of 
hall a lemon, a quarter of an ounce of savory herbs, minced fine. 
tUt and pepper, two ounces of butter, and the yolk of an egg. 
AO these ingredients to be well mixed together. Skewf^r th^ 



88 VOWLS AND OAIOB. 

tmrke} as for boiling, and put it into a large sauce-pan filled 
water, and let it boil until tender. Take up the turkey and put it 
into another sauce-pan, with sufficient of the water in which it has 
\feetk boiled, to keep it hot. Wash well about four good sized 
heads of celery, put these into the sauce-pan with the rest of the 
water in which the turkey has been boiled, and stew them until 
tender. Take them out and put in the turkey, breast downward, 
and let it stew for a quarter of an hour ; place it on a. hot dish be* 
fore the fire, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, and a break- 
fast -cup of cream ; put it in the celery to warm, and pour ihe 
sauce and celery hot over the turkey. 

8TBWSD GHIGKBK. 

Divide a chicken into pieces by the joints, and put into a stew- 
pac^ with salt, pepper, some parsley, and thyme ; pour in a quart 
of water, with a piece of butter ; and when it has stewed an hour 
and a half, take the chicken out of the pan. If there is no gravy, 
put in another piece of butter, add some water, and flour, and let 
it boil a few minutes. When done, it should be not quite as thick 
as drawn butter. 

COLD CHIGKBN FRIBD. 

Place the cold chicken, divided into Small joints, into a deep 
dish, and cover then with salt, pepper, a little melted butter, the 
juice of a lemon, and some chopped parsley and onion. Let the 
meat soak three or four hours in this, turning it once in a while. 
Then take them out, sprinkle flour over them, and firy them. 
When done, pile them high on a dish, and pour a good gravy sauce, 
reasoned and flavored with sweet herbs , round them. 

VOIi-AU-VBNT OF CHICKEN. 

Make a case of puff paste, and fill it, when baked, with minced 
chicken, prepared as follows. Take the meat of a cold chicken, 
and mince it small. Take half a pint of stock, thicken it with a 
little flour, flavor with salt, and nutmeg, and let it boil well ; then 
add two or three mushrooms chopped small, a teacupful of milk, 
and the minced chicken. As soon as the mushrooms are cooked 
t)ie mince is 4one. This may be served on a dish alope. Or put 



VOWLS AKD OAMB, 89 

into vol-au-yent :a8e8, and onianiented with a few button mush- 
rooms, Btewed in white sauce, on the top. 

CHICKEN WITH CHEESE. (A French dish). 

Braise a couple of chickens, and wh>n nearly done, add to 
them some good stock, yegetables, white wme and butter, season- 
ing according to taste. When done, strain some of the liquor mto 
a dish, and grate into it some parmesan cheese ; place the chickens 
ir this, pour over them the remainder of the gravy, grate more 
parmesan over them, and bake the whole. 

CmCKBN PUFFS. 

Minoe up together the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, hall 
an anchovy, a little parsley, some shallot and lemon peel, and sea- 
son these with pepper, salt, cayenne, and beaten maoe. Let this 
be on the fire for a few moments, in a little good white sauce. 
Out some thinly rolled out puff paste into squares, putting on each 
some of the mince ; turn the paste over, fry them in boiling lard, 
and serve them. These puffs are very good cold. 

CHIGBXN LOAF. 

Bone a chicken carefully, and fill it with chopped sweetbread 
weD seasoned ; make it as nearly as possible into its original form, 
tie it up in bacon, and having wrapped a cloth round it, boil it in 
some white wine, good stock, and sweet herbs. When done, untie 
it, use the bacon as garnish, cut in narrow strips, and serve up with 
some rich sauce. 

CHICKEN FOT FEB. 

Divide the chicken into pieces at the joints ; boil until part done, 
or about twenty minutes, then take it out. Fry two or three slices 
of fat salt pork, and put in the bottom, then place the chicken on 
it with three pints of water, two ounces of butter, a tea-spoonful 
of pepper, and cover over the top with a light crust, made tha 
same as for biscuit. Cook one hour. 

MBS. BCAJOR D.^S CHICKEN PIE, FLAVORED WITH OTSTER8. 

Gut up a good sized chicken and stew until tender; meanwhile 



90 FOWLS AND OAIOB. 

leasoning it. After lining the sides of your pan with paste, pfaf 
in it a quart of oysters, seasoning them. Then throw in the 
chicken. Take the water in which the chicken was stewed, and 
hicken it with flour. Fill the pan with the thickened liquor, covet 
't aL with paste j ornament with pastry, and bake till the crasfc if 
ft nice brown, or about twenty minutes in a quick oven. 

PLAIN CHICKEN PIE. 

Take a chicken and cut it in pieces. Stew it in water enough to 
cover it When tender, line a deep dish with pie crust, take the 
chicken out of the liquor, put it in the dish with three or four slices 
of pork, and two ounces of butter, the latter cut in small pieces ^ 
add some of the liqupr, flavor with mushroom catsup, and thicken 
with flour. Cover it with pie crust, and bake it in a quick oven 
about an hour. 

THANKSGIVING CHICKEN PIE. 

Cut two chickens into small members as for fricassee ; cover the 
bottom of the pie-dish with layers of veal and ham placed alter- 
nately ; season with chopped mushrooms and parsley, pepper and 
salt, then add a little gravy ; next place in the dish the pieces of 
chicken in neat order, and round these put slices of hard boiled 
egg in each cavity ; repeat the seasoning and the sauce, lay a few 
thin slices of dressed ham neatly trimmed, on the top ; cover the 
pie with puff-paste, ornament this with pieces of the same cut into 
the form of leaves, &c, ; egg the pie over with a paste-brush, and 
bake it for one hour and a half. 

AUNT ABBY^S CHICKEN PIE. 

Joint two plump, tender chickens, stew them half an hour in 
barely enough water to cover them, take them from the liquor, and 
lay then:> in a deep dish, with some thin slices of very sweet, nioe 
salt pork, and a few halves of small butter crackers. Seasor the 
liquor highly, and pour over the chicken. Hare ready a nice top 
crust, and put a rim of it first round the edge of the di^h, wet i 
slightly, so that the other edge will stick close, and ornament the 
top with pastry. 

For family use, or to eat ccld, for breakfast, or for luntX put a 



FOWLS AND GAKB. 91 

layer of cooked potatoes in the bottom of the dish. The gnry 
win form a thick jelly round them. Omit the crackers. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS. 

Skin the chickens, which makes them sweeter ; cut them Dpen 
on the back and through the breast. Fry them in butter, with 
•alt and pepper to the taste. Cook them to a nice brown. 

ROAST PRAIRIE CHICKENS. 

When they are nicely prepared, fill them with a stuffing of 
bread crumbs, a slice of salt pork chopped fine; sage and onion 
and pepper and salt to season sufficiently. Roast slowly for the 
first half hour, briskly the last Ealf hour. Serve with mushroom 
sauce. 

STEWED PRAIRIE CHICKENS. 

Frepane the chickens the same as for roasting. Put them in a 
stew-pan with some stock or water, and a cup of cold gravy, a lit- 
tle lemon, a dove or two, and some pepper and salt. Add after 
awhile a few spoonsful of tomato sauce. Stew slowly for a couple 
of hours, serve with a little tomato catsup added to the sauce, and 
a light thickening of butter and flour. 

DEVILLED turkey's LEGS. 

Score the legs of a roasted turkey ; sprinkle them with cayenne, 
black pepper and salt ; boil them well, and pour over them the 
following sauce, quite hot : Three spoonsful of gravy, one of but- 
ter rubbed in a little flour, one of lemon juice, a glass of port 
wine, a spoonful of mustard, some vinegar, two or three chopped 
green chillis, a spoonful of mushroom catsup, and Harvey sau(» 

ALICE Carey's ionced chicken. 

Mince all that is left of cold roast, or boiled chickens. Warm 
it with half a cup of cold gravy and a table-spoonfiil of mushroom 
sauce. Pile it in the centre of a dish, and place round it alternate- 
ly smaD and very thin slices of broiled ham, and ooached eggs 
toast 



92 rOWLS AJSTD 6AMB. 



HASHED FOWL. 

Tiike the meat from a cold fowl, and cat it in small jneoes 
Pat half a pint of well-flavored stock into a stew-pan, add a litde 
•alt, pepper and nutmeg, and thicken with some flour and batter ; 
let it boil, then put in the pieces of fowl to warm ; afler stewing 
Bufliciently, serve with some poached eggs laid on the hash, witl; 
a sprig of parsley in the centre, and garnish round the plate with 
pieces of fried bread. 

BROILED PABTRIDOB. ' 

Split the partridge, wipe it inside and out, but do not wash it; 
broil it delicately over a clear fire, sprinkling it with a little sal^ 
and cayenne ; rub a bit of fresh butter over it the moment it is 
taken from the fire. Serve immediately with a sauce made of a 
slice of butter, browned with flour ; a little water, cayenne, salt» 
and mushroom catsup poured over it. Another way is to dip it, 
afler being dressed, flattened and seasoned, into clarified batter, 
and then into bread crumbs ; broil gently twenty or thirty minutes 
and serve with brown mushroom sauce. 

PAKTRIDGB SALAD. 

Place the remains of roast partridge in a deep dish, with oil, 
tarragon vinegar, shallot minced, salt and pepper. At the time of 
serving, place the partridge in a dish, surround it with the hearts 
of lettuce cut in halves or in quarters according to the size ; garnish 
the partridge with hard boiled eggs, cut in quarters, minced gher- 
kins, pickled onions and capers, and stir it in thoroughly with the 
mixture remaining in the deep dish. 

PARTRIDGE PIE. 

Take two brace of pai-tridges, pluck and draw them ; carve three 
of them into six pieces each, viz., wings, legs, breast, neck and 
head, and back. One of the birds should be kept whole, trussed 
in the usual form. Let the pieces be seasoned with pepper, salt, 
and a little ground mace, and laid in a deep dish. Stuff the body 
of the bird leil entire, and put it into the middle of the dish, breast 
upwards. Four over the game half a pint of cold strong beef grav? 



FOWLS AND GAMB. 98 

well strained, in which two well roasted shallots and a few comp 
of allspice have been boiled ; add the yolk of six hard boiled 
eggs, and half a gill of good catsup. Cover your dish with a 
light puff paste, and bake in a moderately heated OYen. 

PIGEOK PIE. 

Make a fine puff paste, lay a border of it around a large dish, 
ind ^Ter\the bottom with a veal cutlet, or a tender rump steak 
free from fat and bone, and seasoned with salt, cayenne, and nut- 
meg or pounded mace ; then prepare as many freshly killed young 
pigeons as the dish will contain in one layer ; put into each a slice of 
butter seasoned with a little cayenne and mace ; lay them into the 
dish breast downwards, and between and over them put the yolks ol 
half dozen or more boiled eggs ; stick plenty of butter on them, sea- 
son the whole with salt and spice ; pour in cold water or veal broth for 
the gravy, roll out the cover three quarters of an inch thick, secure 
it round the edge, ornament it and bake the pie an hour or more. 
The livers of the birds may be put in them, or they may be filled 
with small mushrooms. 

CR0QX7ETTBS OF FOWL. 

Mince very fine some meat from a cold fowl ; put it in a pan 
with a little stock, a table-spoonful of cream, a little salt, and nut- 
meg, and make it of the right thickness with flour ; let i% boil 
well, then pour it out on a deep- dish, and put it aside to get cold 
and set ; then divide it into parts, form them into small balls, or 
egg shapes ; roll each in fine bread crumbs, then egg over with the 
jolk of egg beaten ; roll again in bread crumbs and fry, not too 
brown. Serve, ornamented with parsley. 

GAMB PATTIBS. 

Make as many patties of a small size as you require, of good 
light puff paste ; egg them over, and bake them a nice light brown. 
Fill the lentre with minced venison, or hare, or a mince of any 
kind of game ; dish them on a nappy, and send them to table 
quite hot. 

BaTATION CRAB. 

Mince the white meat of a roast or boiled fowl very fine witk 



M FOWLS AND GAIOB. 

the liver so as to make about six table-spoonsful in all. To diBi 
put two table-spoonsful of pounded cheese, two moderate sized 
onions, four or five green chillies (or if these cannot be procured, 
lome cayenne peppers,) chopped very small. Mix these thorough- 
ly together, and afterwards add one spoonful of anchovy, and one 
of Harvey sauce, a large spoonful of mustard, two of mushroom 
catsup, black pepper, and salt, and three spoonsful of sweet oil. 
Well mix the whole. This makes a nice relish to eat with bread 
and butter. 

SBiALL BIRDS. 

DreBS them nicely, split them down the back and open them out 
iaA, cleaning them well. Broil them gently over a clear fire, sea- 
■on them with butter, salt and pepper ; serve them on buttered 
toast with pickles. 

ROAST GROUSB. 

Dress and singe them. Fill the bodies with a stuffing of bread 
crumbs, seasoned only with pepper, salt and butter. Put some 
cold stock or gravy into the pan, and baste firequently; three 
quarters of an hour will cook them. Serve with gravy, enriched 
with Harvey, or some other good game sauce, with mashed po- 
tatoes and jelly. 

FORCEMEAT FOR ROAST VEAL, TURKEY, ETC. 

Mix thoroughly four ounces of the crumb of stale bread very 
finely grated ; the grated rind, pared thin, of half a fresh lemon ; 
qrarter of an ounce of minced parsley and thyme, one part thyme,< 
two parts parsley ; pepper or cayenne sufficient to season. Add to 
these the unbeaten yolk of an egg, and two ounces of butter in 
small bits; work all smoothly together with the fingers. Other 
•avory herbs than parsley or thyme may be used if preferred, and 
% Httle minced onion may be added, if desired. The proportioni 
given here may be increased when more is required. The above 
will be sufficient for a middling sized turkey. Forcemeat foi 
Ducks or Geese. Two parts of chopped onions, two parts of 
bread crumbs, two of butter, one of pounded sage, and a seasoning 
of pepper and salt. 



VOWLS AKD GAMB. M 



VENISON FASTRT. 



•^ 



Cut the venison into pieces ; line a dish with pie crust, place • 
layer of beef suet cut up finely, in the bottom of the dish, then 
put in the yenison. Season it with salt and pepper, lay on butter^ 
xrrer it with crust and bake it. 

YEMISON PUFFS. 

Shave some cold venison very thin, and cut into small pieces ; to 
to this add a little currant jelly and some rich brown gravy well 
mixed. Boll out some light puff paste very thin, cut it in pieces 
and in each piece put some of the meat, a^d make them into puffk. 
Place them all ready to bake, and brush them over with white of 
egg. Put them in a quick oven and bake a nice brown color 

TENISON STEAK. 

BtoO rare, and prepare a gravy with butter, pepper, salt, a tea- 
spoon of flour, and some mushroom catsup. Cut the steak up into 
small pieces, and when the gravy is hot put it in, and cover tight. 
Set it back firom the fire, or in the oven ten minutes, and serve 
with toast, and jelly. 

STEWED HABB OR RABBIT. 

Wash and soak it thoroughly, wipe it quite dry, cut it into joints, 
Aour and brown it slightly in four or five ounces of butter, with 
some bits of lean ham, then pour on by degrees a pint and a half 
of gravy, and stow the meat very gently an hour and a half, or two 
hours ; add salt if needed. When it has stewed a half hour or 
more, put in half the rind of a lemon, cut thin , and ten minutes before 
serving stir in a large dessert-spoonful of rice flour, mixed smooth- 
ly with two table-spoonsful of mushroon catsup, quarter of a tea- 
•poonftd of mace and less of cayenne. 

RABBIT IN SLICES. 

Take a fresh rabbit, cut it in slices, and fry it brown with some 
dices of pickled pork and some onions chopped fine. When nioe 
and brown, take it out of the frying pan and put it in a stewpan 
with water sufiicient to cover it : pepper and salt to taste ; thicken 



96 VOTLB AUS aM3£M. 

with some flour vid butter ; &nd add foR«-ineAt balls, tnt be ran 
not to put the fat out of the frjing pan. Let the gravj be the 
Ihickneaa of r very rich cream. 

ROAST RABBIT. 

DresB the r&bbit, parboil the liver with & slioe of fit ham, c» 
nreet salt pork, and chop it up Gae with bread crumbs, thyme, > 
imall onion, and pepper and salt. Fill the body, and sew it Dp, 
Rub it over with Bweet oil, or a. little butter, and put a little batter 
, in the pan with the wat«r to baBt« it. Bsete frequentl}', roaat an 
hour and a half, and eerre with maahed potatoes, and black, w 
red currant jelly. 

Hare is prepared, and roasted in jirecisely the same w^f . 



MEAT SAUCES. 



WUITJE flAUOB. 

Boil well over the fire half a pint of milk, quarter of a pint of 
stock of a Hgbt color, season with salt, and thicken with som« 
flour and butter. Mix the flour with milk instead of water, fox 
white sauce. 

BREAD SAUCB. — 1. 

Boil thin slices of white bread without the crust, in milk, with 
some whole white oepper, and a sliced onion ; rub all through a 
coarse colander, put it back into the stewpan with a small piece of 
butter, a cup of veal sto<^ or gravy, salt and a little cream, if you 
have it; warm, and serve it. 

BBBAD BAUOB. — 2, 

Four quite boiling, on half a pint of the finest bread crumbs, an 
«qual measure of new milk ; cover them closely with a plate, and 
let the sauce remain for twenty or thirty minutes ; put it then into 
a saucepan with a small salt-spoonful of salt, half as much pound- 
ed mace, a little cayenne, and about an ounce of fi-esh butter ; 
keep it stirred constantly over a clear fire, for a few minutes, then 
mix it with a cup of milk, give it a boil, and serve it immediately. 

RICB SAUCB. 

Soak a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint of milk, with onion» 
pepper etc., as for bread sauce. When it is quite tender, remove 
the spice, rub it through a sieve into a stewpan, and boil it. If 
too thick, add a small quantity of cream or milk. This is good 
for game or chicken, as a change from bread sauce. 

6 



98 IGBAT SAUOBS. 

WHTTB 8AUCB. 

Knead a laige table-spoonful of butter in a little floor, melt it in 
a tea-cupful of milk; beat the yolk of an egg with a tea-^spoonfo) 
of milk or cream, stir it into the butter, and place it over the fire, 
ilirring it constantly. Chopped parsley may be added. ^ 

900 SAUCB. 

Wuce two or three hard-boiled eggs, and mix in white iauoe. 

CAPER BAUGB. 

Add ood or two spoonsful of capers to white sanoe. 

OYSTER SAUCB. 

Boil up oysters in their own liquor, then beard them ; mix soma 
Dutter with flour, and put into the strained liquor ; when it is hot, 
itir the oysters into it ; add some melted butter, and a little cay- 
enne pepper ; let it boil up once ; put in a little lemon juioe and 
it is ready for serving. 

BROWN ONIOK SAUCB.— 1. 

Brown some sliced onions, in a stew pan, in a little batter ; add 
a little good gravy, and stew them till quite tender. With the 
round steak of beef, this sauce is much admired. 

TOICATO BAUCB. — 1. 

Take about one hundred and fifty good tomatoes, cat them mto 
thin slices, place them in a dish with a pound of salt strewn over 
them, let them remain in the salt two days. Boil a quart of dis- 
tilled vinegar with half ounce of mace, half ounce of cloves, half 
ounce of ginger and mustard seed, and twenty-five ripe capsicums, 
or long pepper pods, for half an hour ; then add the tomatoes, hav- 
ing first poured away all the water and juice extracted by the salt 
from them, and boil all together for half hour ; rub them throu^ 
ft clean, fine sieve, and when cold, bottle and cork tightly. If the 
tomatoes are gathered in dry weather, and carefoUy dene, dui 
■aaoe will keep for two years. 



MBAT SAUCB8. 9if 



TOMATO SAUCE. — 2. 

' Pat tomatoefl perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar, and set into an 
OYen till they are qaite sod ; then separate the skins from the pulp, 
and mix this with capsicum yioegar and a few shalots finely chop- 
ped, which will be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add pow^ 
dered ginger and salt to your taste. Some white wine vinegar and 
eayenne may be used instead of capsicum ymegar. Keep the 
mixture in small wide-mouth ed bottles, well corked, and in a dry, 
cool place. 

TOlfATO SAUCB. — 3. 

Remove the skin and seeds from about a dozen tomatoes, slice 
tbem and put them in the stew pan with pepper and salt to taste, and 
Ihree pounded crackers. Stew slowly one hour. 

HORSBRADISH SAUCB.; — 1. 

Wash a good stick of horseradish, scrape off the outside, then 
grate to a powder. Then take one table-spoonful of the grated 
horseradish, one salt spoonful of mustard, a pinch of salt, four 
table-spoonsful of cream, and two table-spoonsful of vinegar, and 
mix them well together. Add the vinegar last, stirring rapidly as 
it is added. 

HORSBRADISH SAUCB. — 2. 

Stir together until well mixed one dessert spoon of sweet cream, 
the same quantity of powdered mustard, a table-spoonful of vine- 
gar, and two table-spoonsful of scraped horseradish, with a little 
salt to taste. Serve the sauce separately in a sauce tureen. It 
will keep for two or three days or longer if olive oil is used instead 
of cream. 

CRANBBRRT SAUCB. 

Wash, and pick over one quart of cranberries, put them to stew 
wit^ a little water, and a pound of sugar, in a porcelain-lined sauce* 
pan. Let them stew slowly, and closely covered for an hour, oi 
more. They can then be set away ready for use, or they can bt 
pnt into a mould and turned out in form the next day. 



100 MBAT 8AT7GBS. 

Another, and nicer way is to stew them soft, then strain off the 
fkins, add pound of sugar to quart of fruit, and boil all up togeth- 
er again for fifteen minutes. This will make a fine jelly for game/ 
if put into a mould. 

MINT SAUCE. 

Choose fresh and young mint, strip the leaves from the stems, 
wash and drain, chop them finely, and add two table-spoonsftd 
of pounded sugar to three heaped table-spoonsful of mint. Mix 
thoroughly, and pour in gradually, six table-spoonsful of good vin- 
egar. The proportions can be varied according to taste. 

GELERT SAUCE. 

Cut the celery into inch lengths, Gry it in butter until it begins to 
be tender, add a spoonful of flour which may be allowed to brown 
a little, and half a pint of good broth or beef gravy, with a season- 
ing of pepper or cayenne. 

ASPABAOUS SAUCE. 

Wash and drain half inch lengths of asparagus tops, about a half 
pint of them, throw them into plenty of boiling salt and water, and 
boil quarter of an hour or less until tender, then turn them into a 
strainer to drain. When ready to serve put them into thickened 
veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of two eggs, with seasoning of 
salt and cayenne ; or into melted butter into which a little lemon 
juice has been squeezed. 

SAUCE OF TUBKEY^S EOGS. 

Turkey ^s eggs are superior to others for sauce. Boil three eggs 
gently in plenty of water twenty minutes. Break the shells by 
rolling them on the table ; separate the whites from the yolks, di- 
vide all the yolks into quarter inch dice pieces, mince one and a 
half of the whites rather small, mix them lightly and stir them into 
a pint of white sauce, and serve hot. The eggs of common fowl 
may be prepared for sauce according to these directions, using 
four yolks and two whites, and boiling four or five minutes less. 
The eggs of guinea fowl also make a good sauce after ten minutei 
boiling. 



ICBAT SAUCES. 



BOLD MUSTARD. 



101 



For immediate use mustard may be mixed with milk to which a 
ipoonful of very thin cream may be added. 

FRENCH BATTER. 

For frying vegetables and for apple, peach, or orange fritten , 
pour a gill of boiling water on a couple of ounces of bits of butter. 
When dissolved, add three gilld of cold water to make it lukewarm ; 
mix in smoothly twelve ounces of dry flour and a small pinch of 
salt if for fruit fritters, but more salt if for meat. If it is too thick, 
add more water. Just before using, add the whites of two eggs 
beaten to a solid froth. 

BERESHIRB SAUCB. 

One full pint of nasturtium flowers must be placed in a stone 
jar, with five shallots bruised, two tea-spoonsful of salt, and the 
same quantity of cayenne pepper. Upon these, one quart of boil- 
ing vinegar should be poured, and the jar closely stopped down 
for a month or more. At the end of this time the liquid must be 
strained, and three ounces of soy added for each pint, after winch 
the sauce may be bottled, and is fit for use. This is excellent for 
either hot or cold meat, and easily made when nasturtium flowers 
are plentiful. 

A SAUCE FOR SfADB DISHES. 

One quart of vinegar, one ounce of cayenne pepper, six table- 
spoonsful of walnut catsup, two table-spoonsful of soy, two cloves 
of garlic, and the same quantity of shallots (both the garlic and 
shallots must be well bruised) . Mix all the ingredients well togeth- 
er, bottle them, and keep the bottles closely corked. It will be fit 
or use in six weeks. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED TURKEY OR CAPON. 

When the turkey is plucked clean, singed and neatly trussed, 
ftuff it inside with raw oysters, adding a lump of fresh butter and 
lome stale bread crumbs. Place the turkey or capon in a clean 
doth, fold it up carefully, put it in a saucepan of cold water, and 



102 MBAT SAITGB8. 

let it boil over a moderately heated fire until it is done. Have « 
stick of white blanched celery at hand, and chop it up very small, 
place it in a quart of new milk in a saucepan ami let it boil, gen- 
Uy» with a few black pepper corns, till the quantity is reduced to 
one pint ; keep stirring the esculent up with the milk until it as- 
sumes the character of a consistent pulp. .Thicken the whole 
with the yolk of a fresh egg, well beaten up, with half a tea-cup 
of fresh cream. Have upon the table a sauce boat of strong real 
gravy. 

SAUCB FOR BOASTBD CHIGKBN. 

Cut up some carrots and parsnips into any shape preferred, and 
let them boil with some little onions in a smaU quantity of stock. 
Add mushroom catsup, a little ham cut into small pieces, and let 
all stew in butter, with sweet herbs, adding two cloves, some 
thyme and a bay leaf. When these are colored, put in some veal 
gravy. Let the whole boil slowly until sufficiently done. Skim 
it and add it with a little good veal broth to the carrots and pars- 
nips. Roast two chickens (nicely stuffed) rolled in bacon and 
wrapped in pepper, and pour the mixture upon them. 

SAUCB FOR BOnBD FISH. 

Pick and wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme and small 
green onions, using only a small quantity of each. Boil them 
until tender in a little veal stock ; after which chop them up, add 
to them some fresh butter, the liquor they were boiled in, some 
grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne pepper 
and salt. Let it boil ; thicken it with flour and send it up in a 
sauce boat. 

FISH SAUCB TO KBBP A TBAB. 

Chop up fbrty anchovies, bones and all, put to them ten shallotf 
cat small, a handful of scraped horseradish, a quarter of an ounce 
of mace, a quart of white wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in 
slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve 
doves, and twelve peppercorns. Boil together until reduced to a 
quart ; strain it, put it into a bottle and cork it closely. It must 
be kept in a cold, dry place. When required for use, one te** 



MBAT 8AU0B8. 108 

■poonffal should be heated and put to half a pound of butter and a 
litde flour. 

SAUCE FOR VENISON. 

Two spoons of currant jelly, one stick of cinnamon, one blade 
of mace, grated white bread, ten table-spoons of water, let it stew 
with a little water, serve in the dish with yenison steaks.. 

DBAWN BUTTER. 

Rub two tea-spoonsful of flour into a quarter of a pound of 
butter, add five table-spoons of cold water ; set it into boiling wa- 
ter and heat till it begins to simmer, then it is done. For fish, 
chopped boiled eggs and capers can be put in. For boiled fowl, 
oysters can be put in while it is melting, and cooked through 
while it is simmering. 

BROWNING FOR SAUCES. 

Put half a pound of brown sugar into an iron saucepan, melt it 
over a moderate fire for about twenty minutes, stirring it contin- 
ually until quite black ; but it must become so by degrees, or too 
sudden a heat will make it bitter ; then add two quarts of water, 
and in ten minutes the sugar will be dissolved. Bottle for use. 

SAUCE FOR ROAST BEAF. 

One quart of grated horseradish, two tea-spoons black pepper, 
two of mustard, one of allspice, two of salt, and 9^ pint of best 
vinegar. Mix well, and bottle immediately. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. — 1. 

Break up the mushrooms and add to them a little Mit, a handful 
to a peck, let them lie over night, and in the morning strain them 
through a coarse cloth ; add to the liquor an ounce e»4i of cloves, 
black pepper, Jamaica pepper, and ginger ; two or throe anchovies, 
and a glass of port wine for each quart, or in tha»^ j>roportion. 
Boil it gently then until the liquor is re duoed to on« Half; take it 
off, let it cool, and bottle it air tight. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. — 2. 

tHit in an earthen vessel layers of mushrooms, ano ^il l^afi 



L04 lOBAT BAUOXS. 

of salt, and allow ihem remain half a day, or until the salt has pene* 
trated them somewhat. Then mash them, and keep them standing 
another whole day, frequently stirring them up from the bottom. 
To each gallon of mushrooms add an ounce of peppercorns, an 
ounce of cloves, and one of allspice. Set the jar in cold water, 
and let it come to boiling heat. Simmer gently for two hours , 
then strain, and reduce one half, skimming carefblly as it cornea 
to a boil ; strain it off, when it has settled, into small bottles for use, 
adding a teaspoon of brandy to each bottle, and seal. Keep in 
A dry plaoe. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

One gallon skinned tomatoes, three heaping table-spoonsful of 
salt, same of black pepper, two of allspice, three of ground mus- 
tard, half a dozen pods of red pepper. Stew all slowly together 
in a quart of yinegar for three hours ; strain the liquor, simmer 
down to half a gallon. Bottle hot, and cork tight. 

WALNUT CATSUP. 

Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when 
they are tender, and skim it well ; then put in two pounds of an- 
chovies, bones and liquor, two pounds of shallots, one ounce each 
of cloves, mace, and pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let aU 
simmer till the shallots sink ; then put the liquor into a pan till 
cold ; botde and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, tie the 
bladder over, and put it in small bottles. It will keep twenty 
years in the greatest perfection, but is not fit for use the first year. 

VnnCGAR PLANT. 

To make vinegar from the vinegar plant, pour one gallon of 
boiling water on one and a half pounds of strong, elean, brown 
sugar, keep stirring it until it is the warmth of new milk, then put 
it into a large pickle jar, or any other convenient vehicle, and 
place the plant on it. If at the end of two or three days the 
plant does not float, take it out, put in a cork, and lay the phmt 
on it. The vinegar will take making from six weeks to three 
months, and the above will make about three quarts. The jar 
must be placed in a warn^— not a hot place. 



lOBAT SAUOBS. lOS 



VAST CODDEB YINEQJJL, 

Ttke die water in which dried apples have been soaked and 
washed^ strain it well and add a pound of sngar. 

YJUnSQAR OF MABJORAM. 

Pick sweet marjoram leaves before the plant flowers, wilt them 
a little and steep in strong yinegar two wec^ ; bottle and cork 
tightly. 

VTNBGAB FOB SOUSB. 

Steep black peppercorns and mustard seed in strong vinegai 
for fonr weeks, strain and pour it over the souse after it is boiled 
tender. 

VnnSGAB FOB SOUSED FISH. 

Steep in strong vinegar a few cloves, some peppercorns, mustard 
seed, and young walnuts bruised, until the vinegaris thoroughly 
spiced j strain, and pour it over the fish. The fish must be boiled 
before it is soused. 

GLOYB TINEOAB. 

Steep two ounces of brubed cloves in one pint of strong vine^ 
gar, for six weeks ; then filter it until it is dear, bottle and oorl^ 
closely, in half pint bottles. 

TABBAQON YINEaAB. 

Pick tarragon leaves firom the stalk before the plant flowers, fill 
a large, wide-mouthed bottle with them, steep them in strong vine- 
gar for two weeks or longer, strain clear ; bottle and cork closely, 
in half pint bottles. This is used to flavor mustards and salads. 

SAVOBY yiNBOAB. 

Steep summer savory in strong vinegar until it is thoroughly 
fUTored ^ strain, and bottle it tightly. 

CELERY YINEGAB. 

Into a pint and a half of boiling vinegar, throw a pint of firesh 
celery roots and stems, sliced fine, a large salt-spoonfhl of salt, a 

6* 



108 XBAT SAITGBB. 

few grain of cayenne, and half an ounce of pepperooms ; lei i 
bpil two or three minutes, turn it into a stone jar, and secure it 
from the air when it is cold. It will keep two or three months in 
the jar, or it may be strained off and bottled in three or four weeks 

OKBBN BUNT VINBGAB. 

Pat freshly gathered mint, chopped or bruised, into botdeB mi 
til they are nearly fuQ ; pour in pale vinegar, and in six weeks strain 
it off and bottle it for use. Young leaves of mint stripped from 
the stalk and minced for sauce will keep in vinegar, though the col- 
or may not be very good. 

RASFBBRRT YINBaAIl. 

Fat three or four quarts of raspberries in a stone jar, and covet 
them with vinegar. Let them stand twenty-fbur hoars. Then 
strain this jnice through a jelly bag, and pour it on fresh berries, 
letting this stand another day. Repeat this process until yon have 
the quantity you desire. Add to each pint of juice one pound of 
sugar. Put it into a preserving kettle, and allow it to heat suf- 
fidently to meft the sugar. When it is cold, put it into sealed bot- 
tles. It will keep two years. 

BLACK CURRANT VINBOAB. 

Well bruise the currants, pour the vinegar over them, putting in 
a little sugar to draw the jnice. Let it stand three or four days, 
stirring it well each day. Strain the juice from the fruit, and put- 
ting one pound of sugar to one pint of juice ; boil it gently thres 
quarters of an hour ; skim, and when cold, bottle it. 

CHILI VINBOAB. 

Let fifty small, ripe cayenne peppers chopped fine, renuun id 
strong vinegar for a fortnight, then strain and bottle. 



BBUSHBS. 



fiAin>WIGHB8. 

Make loiiie nke biscuit which will be three- |aarten of an iadi 
thick, when baked. Split them, batter them lightlj, and lay in a 
slice of tongue, or ham, touched with French mustard or anchoyy 
sauce. 

DBB|9SINa FOB SAJNDWXCHES. 

Take three spoonsful of sweet oil, three table-spoonsful of mixed 
mustard, half-a-pound of good butter, a little red pepper, a little 
salt, the yolk of one egg, beat them together smoothly, and keep 
them cool ; then chop together finely some tongue and ham, and if 
conyenient, a little cold chicken. Spread the sliced bread with the 
dressing, then with the meat ; add the second slice, press closely 
together and trim off the edges. 

▲ GOLD BKLISH. 

Cut odd scraps of meat into small pieces. If there is veal and 
ham among it, so much the better. Add three table-spoonsfUl of 
fiurina, some parsley, green or dried, a little sage, a little celery, 
parsnip, or carrot, or all three, chopped fine, and pepper and salt. 
Coyer with water, and stew for two hours, very gently. Pour into 
a dish, and when cold it will be solid ; and should be cut in thin 
ilices, for the table. 

A GERMAN ENTBEMBI. 

Boil eight eggs quite bard, and when cold cut them in two length- 
wise. Take the yolks out very carefully, pass them through a fine 
■ieve, and mix them weU with half a pint of cream (or more if re- 
quired) and then add pepper, salt, and herbs. Pour this sauce 



108 BBLI8HE8. 

into a very flat pie dish that will stand heat, and place the white 
half egg^ carefully in it, arranging them in the form of a star, oi 
any pattern preferred. Fill up the yacancy left in them by the 
yolks having been remoyed, with the same mixture, and strew a 
few bread crumbs over them. Bake this very slightly, jnst enou^ 
to giye it a bright yellow color, and serve it np in the dish in 
which it has been baked. 

SAVOBT CUSTABD. 

Beat two eggs into one and a half gills of cream ; season to 
taste with pepper, salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, sweet herbs 
and shallot ; add to these some chopped ham and tongae. Four it. 
into small round cups and steam ten minutes. 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Pare, slice, and cook green tomatoes until very tender. Add 
sweet cream, sweet milk will do, but it will need more butter to 
make plenty of gravy ; season with peper, salt, and butter. Have 
the bread nicely toasted and placed in a deep dish, and pour the 
contents of the frying-pan over it. This is an excellent way to 
use up dry slices of bread. 

TOMATO OMELET. 

Peel and chop a quart of tomatoes, simmer them for twenty 
minutes with as much water as will cover them ; chop a few onions 
very fine, throw them in with crumbled bread and a lump of but- 
Uer ; when nearly done beat up four eggs, and stir them in a few 
minutes ; salt and pepper to your taste. 

aAVORY TOAST. 

Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a saucepan, a 
dessert-spoonful of mustard, a wine glass pf vipe(|^ar Cthat in whidi 
walnuts have been pickled is superior to all others)^ a dessert- 
spoonful of anchovy sauce, some pepper and cavenn^), quarter 
pound of cheese broken into pieces. Stir it well until duwolved, 
then q)read on toasted bread and serve. 

TOASTED CBBE8B.— 1. 

Ghrate three ounces of fat chce^ vm it with the volk of on* 



1EBLI8HB8. 109 

egg, four ounoes of grated bread and three ounces of butter, beat 
the whole well In a mortar, with a dessert -spoonful of mustard 
and a little salt and pepper. Toast some slices of bread, lay the 
paste thick upon it, put it for a minute before the fire and send to 
able yeiy hot. 

TOASTED CHKKflK.— 2. 

Fat into a dean sauce-pan a table-spoonful of either ale (not 
bitter) or cold water ; add some slices of toasting cheese, and let 
it simmer until it is melted, stirring it all the time.. Have ready 
in a bowl some good ale, sweeten it to the taste with moist sugar 
and add some grated nutmeg, loast slices of bread without 
either bum or crust, put them hot into the bowl, to take the chill 
off the ale, then put a slice of the toast on a hot plate for each per- 
son, and pour upon it as much of the cooked cheese as may be 
agreeable. Take out of the bowl any remaining toast there may 
be left ; stir well ^e sugar from the bottom, and drink the ale af- 
ter eating the cheese. 

ANCHOYT GHEESB. 

Pat a piece of cheese into a stewpan, and, when soft, mash it 
with batter or any. other grease. Now add half a pint of water, 
hot or cold, a little salt, and an anchovy cut small. Boil the whol« 
together, adding as much flour from time to time as the liquid will 
absorb. When you have got a thick paste, pour over it some eggs 
beaten up, and mix the whole well together. Lastly, pull your 
paste into small lumps, and bake in an oven. 

CHEESE OlOELBT, 

Butter the sides of a deep dish, cover the bottom with thin slices 
of cheese, place upon this very thin slices of bread, well buttered, 
a little red pepper and mustard, another layer of cheese, and, 
just before putting in the oven, beat the yolk of an egg in a cup of 
oream and pour into the dish. Bake half an hour or until nicely 
browned. 

CHEESE Foin>n. 
A quarter of a pound of butter, one ounce and half of flout 



110 KBU8HBS. 

four eggfl, three ounces cheese grated, not quite half a pint of miUL 
Place the butter and flour in a saucepan on the hot plate, stir Uy 
gether : next add the grated cheese ; stir on for twenty minutes, 
when remove it, and let it get cold. Beat the eggs, yolks and 
whites separately, add the yolks to the mixture cold, but the whites 
must be beaten and added just before baking. Bake in a brisk 
oven on a silver fondu dish, or a round cake tin concealed with a 
Grilled paper, about three quarters of an hour. Serve hot, as it 
will fall in cooling, 

PONDU STRAWS. 

Quarter of a pound of puff paste and quarter of an ounce of 
good cheese grated very fine, a little salt and cayenne pepper 
mixed ; sprinkle the cheese, salt, and pepper over the paste, and 
roll it two or three times ; cut it into narrow strips about five inches 
long ; bake them in a slow oven and serve very hot. 

POTTBD CHEESE. 

One pound of cheese beaten in a mortar ; two ounces of liquid 
butter, one glass of sherry, and a very small quantity of cayenne 
pepper, mace, and salt. All should be well beaten together and 
put into a pretty shaped glass potting-jar, with a layer of butter at 
the top. It makes a delicious relish for bread or toast. 

POT CHEESE. 

Scald a pint of sour milk till it curdles, strain off the whey and 
form the curd into round cakes an inch thick, adding salt to taste. 
The milk should not be old ; if very sour, a little sweet milk scalded 
with it improves the flavor. 

BfACARONI. 

Put four or five ounces of macaroni in water, and boil for twen 
ty minutes, until tender. Mix into ha^f a pint of milk a little 
flour, and a small piece of butter, half a tea-cup of cream, half a 
tea-spoonful of mustard, salt, pepper, and cayenne, and four ounces 
of good fat cheese grated very fine ; stir all together and boil for 
ten minutes. Pour this over the macaroni, after draining it from 
the water - boil five or six minutes and serve. 



BBI1BHB8. Ill 



TIMBALL OF MACABOm. 

Boll some puff paste very thin, and cat it into narrow bands, 
and twist each into a kind of cord, which coil around the insidei 
of small butter moulds. Tlien fill eich mould with macaroni 
cover the top with equal quantities of grated bread and good fa 
cheese ; put them into a warm oven, and let them bake three qnar 
len of an hour, tam mem out on a dish and serve them. 



PIOELBS. 



0UCUMB1EB8.—- !• 

To pidde cacumben for market cat, them from the vines without 
bruifling the stems, take them carefhlly to the cellar, pack in barrels 
putting different sizes in separate barrels ; spread a layer of salt 
between each layer of cucumbers, sufficient to entirely coyer the 
pickles. Pack the cucumbers daily as they are picked, discarding 
the crooked or those of slow growth. The brine will be formed 
without the addition of water, by the juice extracted by the salt. 
Keep boards over the pickles, with weights to press them under 
the brine. Pickles packed in this way can be preserved for years 
with pure salt ; but if the salt is mixed with lime they will soften 
and spoil. In two months after the barrel is filled, take them &om 
the brine, freshen and green. To green them, prepare alum water, 
put the pickles in a vat or boiler lined with tinned copper ; heat 
the alum water, and pour it over them. Pickle makers usually 
employ this process except that they throw steam into the vats to 
heat the alum water, and if managed properly the pickles may be 
greened with less action of copper than when scalded in the usual 
method in bright brass kettles. Take the pickles from the vat when 
a little green, and pour over them water boiling hot. If not 
greened sufficiently, repeat the hot water until they are the desired 
color, and when cold put them in good vinegar. Let them remain 
until quite soured ; then change to pretty strong vinegar, which wiU 
keep the pickles hard and sour. Add six large peppers, without 
braising, to each barrel, and keep the pickles under the vinegar 
witn weights. 

CUCUMBERS. — 2, 
A simpler method is. pick the cucumbers with a bit of the it«0 



PIOKIJIi. 118 

on, wipe them dean and pat them into the following pickle, at the 
rate of one part yinegar, two parts water, and three salt, with a 
good sized root of horseradish. When the tub is full, put a cloth 
oirer tlie cucumbers and a dean flat stone over the doth, cover the 
tub and set it in the cellar. In the spring soak them and pickle 
them in yinegar. 

TOHATOSS. 

Wipe the tomatoes dean ; slice them, if large, twice in two ; if 
small, only once. Sprinkle a thin layer of sugar on the bottom of 
a stone jar, then a layer of tomatoes, and then a sprinkling of 
sugar, and so on. When the jar is full, add yinegar and set it in 
a warm place. In a few weeks they will be good pickles. The 
tomatoes must be kept under the yinegar, and the jar tightly coy- 
ered. 

BBBTS 

Boil the beets till tender, then drop them whole or siloed into 
spiced yinegar. 

GIUSEN TOMATOBS. 

Let green tomatoes stand in salt and water for twelve hours. 
Then stick four or five cloves in each one, and pour boiling yinegar 
over them. Place them in a jar and set them in a cool place. 

MUSTABD nCKLB. 

Half peck of small cucumbers, half peck of green string beans, 
one quart of green peppers, two quarts of small onions. Cut all 
in small pieces ; put cucumbers and beans in a strong brine for 
twenty-four hours. Remove from brine and pour on two pounds 
of ground mustard mixed with one pint of sweet oil, and three 
quarts of vinegar. 

QBEEN FICKLE. 

In two quarts of good vinegar, boil quarter of a pound of salt, two 
ounces of shallots, two large tea-spoonsfbl of cayenne pepper, one 
ounce of ginger, and one ounce of white pepper ; when well boiled, 
cool and pour it in a jar upon any freshly gathered green fruits and 
Tegetables desired to be pickled. 



114 PICKLSB. 



ONIONS. — 1. 

Peel small o»:ions and lay them for one day in salt and t? afeer, 
v^hanging their position once during the time Boil together good 
vine^^, cloves, mace, and a little pepper, dry the onions, pour the 
pickle over them in a jar, and cover them closely, 

ONIONS — 2. ^ 

To prevent watery eyes while peeling, put them in a pot of boH- 
mg water. Let them stand a few moments to drain, then peel them, 
put them into milk and water, with a little Bait ; when it boils, 
strain off the onions, wipe dry, and put them in wide-mouthed bot- 
tles. Have very old white wine vinegar, in which whole white 
pepper, ginger, mace, and horseradish have been boiled. Poor it 
over the onions, and cover down dose with bladders. 

POBTUGAI. ONIONS. 

The Portugal onion makes an excellent pickle prepared in the 
following way : one large onion and one large baking apple, cut 
up into small pieces, mixed well together, and put into a pickle 
jar, into which enough boiling vinegar must be poured to cover 
the mixture and fill up the jar. 

FRENCH BEANS. 

Make a strong brine of salt and water, gather the beans before 
they have strings, lay them in the brine till yellow, drain them dry 
and put boiling hot vinegar over them. Close them tightly for a 
day and night. Boil the vinegar and pour it on again for several 
days till they turn green. To one peck of beans put half an 
ounce each of pepper, mace and cloves. 

CABBAGE. 

Gut fC firm cabbage into thin slices, spread it on an open dish, 
sprinkle it over with salt for two or three days, then strain ii 
tfirough a sieve or colander, so as to take all water fix)m it ; place 
it in your jar, and pour as much boiling vinegar as will cover it; 
lay over the jar a cloth to keep in all the steadi until quite cold, 
then tie it down air tight. It will keep for a very long time. A 
few slices of beet root gives a good color. 



FIOKLB0. 116 



GABBAOB WITH fiWSST FIGEUI. 

Cat the heads into quarters, let them stand in cold water a short 
dme. Chop them fine, together with nice fine celery sufiicient tp 
season it. Fill small jars or cans, make a sweet pickle of molasses 
and vinegar, season with plenty of red pepper and cinnamon, and 
other spices to the taste ; boil altcgether a few moments and pour 
oyer the cabbage while hot. Cork the cans and place in the cellar. 
This should not be eaten under three or four weeks. It is a nice 
relish with cold meats, etc. 

RBD CABBAaB. 

Put a quarter ol an ounce of cochineal into a small bag, and boil 
it with the quantity of vinegar considered sufiicient for the cabbage 
yon wish to pickle, adding a little salt, and bay salt. When it 
boils, scald the cabbage with it, having previously cut it into slices ; 
boil the vinegar up again, this time adding ginger and pepper. 
Let it cool, and when quite cold, having put the cabbage into jars, 
pour the pickle upon it, and tie it down closely. The cochiaeal 
preserves the color ; beet root may be used instead. Both are 
quite harmless. 

BIELONS, MANGOES AND CUCUMBKBS. 

Melons should not be much more than half grown, but cucum- 
bers full grown. Cut oft the top, but leave it hanging by a bit of 
rind, which is to serve as a hinge to a box lid ; scoop out all the 
seeds with a spoon, and fill the fruit with equal parts of mustard 
seed, ground pepper and ginger, or flour of mustard instead of the 
seed, and two or three cloves of garlic. The lid which incloses 
the spice may be sewed down or tied, by running a white thread 
through the ends. The pickle may be prepared with the spices, or, 
if preferred, with the following ingredients : To each quart of 
vinegar put salt, flour of mustard, curry powder, bruised ginger, 
tameric, half ounce of each ; of cayenne pepper, one drachm ; 
mb all these together with a large glassful of salad oil ;' eschalots, 
two ounces, garlic, half ounce, sliced. Steep the spice in the viiH 
egar as before directed, and put the vegetables into it hot. 



116 FIOKLBS. 



QHB8KXNB. 

A quick mode of pickling gherkins, or prickly ciicnmben, is to 
prick them with a needle in several places, and put them in a pan 
of cold water, adding as much salt as will make a strong brine. 
Let them soak for three hours. Take them out, wipe them dry in a 
dean doth ; put in a saucepan, ever a gentle fire, add some strong, 
brown pickling vinegar, with allspice, half the quantity of whole 
black pepper, a little brown ginger and some cayenne pepper. 
Let them simmer quarter of an hour ; take them up, and when cold, 
pour them over the gherkins in a jar, and stop them tightly down. 
They will be fit for use in the course of three or four days. One 
or t^o eschalots will be found an improvement. 

PICCALILLI. 

Use all kinds of vegetables that may be pickled. Slice cabbages, 
and pull cauliflowers in bunches, put them on earthen dishes, 
sprinkled over with salt, and let them stand three days to dry. 
Sliced cucumbers, green tomatoes, gherkins, radish pods, onions, 
beans, nasturtiums and anything you like that may be pickled, 
put it into salt and water one day. The next day dry them ; take 
a fbw at a time and scald in brown vinegar, and when all are 
scalded, set the vinegar away. To four quarts of brown vinegar, 
put a quarter of a pound of ginger, two ounces of allspice, quart- 
er of a pound of shallots, two ounces of tumeric, and boil slowly 
half an hour. Take some boiling vinegar, and miz eight oances 
of flour of mustard and pour it into the vinegar and spices ; it 
must not boil after the mustard is put in. Put the prepared veg- 
etables and spices in a large jar, scatter some brown mustard 
seed among the mixture, and stir it up well in the jar. If at any 
time it should become too dry, add cold boiled vinegar ; for tbe 
vegetable must be kept covered with vinegar mixture. Cover the 
jar air tight and set in a cool place. 

LEMON FICKLB. 

Tbe fruit should be small with thick rinds. Bub them with a 
piece of flannel ; then slit them down in quarters, but not quite 
through the pulp, fill the slits with salt hard pressed in ; set tiien 



noKZJM. 117 

qvright in a pan for four or five days antQ the sak melts ; torn 
lihein Uiree days uDtil they become tender in their liquor. Then 
make enough pickle to cover them, of ripe vinegar, the brine of th4 
lemons, Jamaica pepper and ginger ; boil and skim it. Whea 
sold, put it over the lemons. 

TO FXGKLB BOOTS. 

Boots, such as carrots, salsify, and beet roots, may be pickled by 
being sUced, or cut into smaU pieces, and slightly boiled in vine- 
gar without destroying their crispness, and adding the common 
sjnoos ; with beet roots put button onions, or cut some Spanish on- 
ions in slices, lay them alternately in a jar ; boil one quart of vin- 
egar, with one ounce of mixed pepper, half an ounce of ginger, 
fome salt, and pour it cold over the beet root and onions. 

BARBEBREBS.-— 1. 

(father when not over ripe, pick off the leaves and dead stalks. 
Flaoe them in jars, pour over them cold boiled salt and water, and 
dose them tightly. They must be looked at occasionally, and as 
soon as a scum is seen to rise on them, they diould be put into 
fresh salt and water. 

BABBEBBDBS.— >2. 

Another method is to place them in a wide-mouthed bottle and 
poor over them cold distilled vinegar that has been previous- 
ly boiled with a little spice, and keep them well corked. They are 
deliciona when eaten with fidi, and look very pretty round the 
dish* 

BARBBRRTKfl, (^8w€d,) — 1. 

Add half a pound of sugar and a pint of molasses to each 
pound of the berries, simmer them together half an hour or morSy 
VQtil they become soft. 

With every half pound of moist sugar mix one pint of water, 
and one pint of white wine vinegar : put the worst of the barber- 
ries in this and boil till the liquor is a bright deep color. Put the 



118 PICKLBS. 

reft of the berries in glasses, let tbe liquor stand till odd, then 
strain it, wringing the cloth to get all the coloi from the barberries 
Let it settle, then poor it into the glasses. Cover tightly wiih a 
bladder and leather. 

WALNUTS. 

Pnt them into strong salt, and water, for cine days ; stir them 
frequently, and change the salt and water, eyery three days. Left 
them stand in a hair sieve till they turn black. Put them into 
strong stone jars, and pour boiling vinegar over them. Cover 
them, and let them stand till they are cold. Scald the vinegar 
three times more, pour it each time upon the walnuts, and let them 
stand till cold between each boiling ; cover them closely, and let 
them stand two months. Make for them a pickle of two quarts of 
vinegar, half an ounce of olives, the same of mace, one ounce of 
ginger, the same of long-pepper, and two ounces of salt. Boil it 
ten minutes, pour it hot on the walnuts, and cover them tight. 

ASPABAOnS. 

Fill a stone pot with asparagus, make a pickle of water and 
have it salt enough to bear an egg ; pour it on hot and keep it 
covered tight. Before using, put the asparagus in cold water for 
two hours. Then boil and butter and send to table. If they are 
used for pickles take them out of the brine, boil them and cover 
them with vinegar. 

BLkCKBERBISa. 

To six wooden quarts of blackberries add three pounds of sugar 
and one quart of good vinegar. Let them stand covered until a 
syrup is formed, then pour it off, boil, and skim it off clear ; put 
in the fruit and let it just come to a bril. Take it out carefully. 
Let the syrup boil up once more, then pour over and seal or tie 
down. 

HUflHROOMS. 

Button mushrooms, to preserve their flavor, should be rubbed 
with a pie3e of flannel dipped in salt. To preserve their color, 
kMp them in spring water both before and after rubbing. Fron 



PIOKIiBS. 119 

the larger mufiliroomfl remove the red int&de ; when thif is turned 
bUck they are too old. Throw a little salt oyer them and put 
them into a stewpan with some mace and red pepper ; as (he li- 
qnor comes out, shake them well and simmer them over a gentle 
fire till all of it is dried into them again. Put as much vinegar 
kto the pan as will cover tkt&n ; make .t warm, and then pour all 
into glass jars or bottles, and tie down tightly, with a bladder 
Ihej will kdep two yean. 



8ALADB. 



fiFRmO SALABfl. 

Ufe salads on the table as early as possible in the Spring ; they 
are pleasant and very healthful. Water-cresses should be a stand- 
ing dish upon the breakfast table ; and lettuce, with chives, pepper- 
grass, and whatever else b available, at dinner. Never mind the 
regular salad mixture of sweet oil and the like, if it is not conven- 
ient or agreeable. Pepper, salt and vinegar, are very good condi- 
ments alone, and we must even confess a weakness for an old- 
fiishioned sprinkling of white sugar and vinegar on our lettace, 
occasionally ; but eat it at any rate, if only with salt. 

CHICKEN BAUlD, 

Mince all the tender meat, white and dark, of a pair of duck- 
ens, fine. They should have been previously boiled or roasted. 
Chop all the white part of a large head of celery, with one or two 
young heads of lettuce, if they can be had, and mix with the chick- 
en. Make a dressing of the yolks of eggs, boiled twenty minutes, 
and rabbed smooth with a spoon, two tea-spoonsful of made Eng- 
lish mustard, a tea-spoonful of salt, two table-spoonsful of salad 
oil, a dessert-spoonful of white sugar, and half a pint of strong 
vinegar. Pour the dressing over the ckcken and celery, in a salad 
bowl, and garnish with rings cut from the boiled whites of th€ 
eggs. 

CARBOT SALAD. 

Boil your carrots tender, chop them fine, with the whites ol 
hard boiled eggs. Pour over them a sauce made of the yolki of 
the eggs beaten smooth, with a small piece of butter, a b'ttle pep- 



iA]:.Al>8. 121 

par and salt, a table-spoonfal of Tinegar, and a tea-8|i/#miftil of 
made mustard. 

FISH fliXAD. 

Cold fisfa may be made into a yery excellent salad in this way : 
ihit it as neatly as possible into pieces about one or two inches 
•qnare ; put them into a deep dish, add a little salt> and a small 
quantity of very finely chopped onions ; squeeze the ]uicft of a 
emon^OYer it ; cover the dish with a plate, and set it away ^r two 
oours. Then take fresh lettuce, well drained from the wacer. cut 
it into pieces and pile it up high in the centre of a dish ; drain the 
fish firom the lemon juice, and place in a circle round the pile of 
lettuce as yon would cutlets ; pour some salad sauce over the let- 
tuce, only keeping the fish white. Place parsley leaves between 
the pieces of fish, or a small piece of red beet-root, to garnish. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Mince the meat from the body and claws fine, mash the coral, 
and mix it with scalded lettuce chopped fine. Make a sauce of a 
little pepper, a very little cayenne, a tea-spoonful of French mus- 
tard, four table-spoonsful of salad oil, and fbur table-spoonsful of 
strong vinegar. Mash the yolks of three boiled eggs, mix them 
with the coral and the sauce, and add it before serving. [For 
another receipt, see Lobsters.] 

AN EAST INDIAN SALAD. 

Take a large boiled crab, pick the meat clean from the shell, and 
chop it up finely. Place it in a deep salad dish, adding one gill of 
tarragon, and one tea-spoonful of Chili vinegar, one table-spoonful 
of pure Lucca or Florence oil, with an anchovy bruised in a mor- 
tar. Let these be well mixed together. Chop one blanched 
i'ndive, one stick of celery, and a small bunch of green chives, 
irith salt to taste, and arrange the ingredients with a spoon io 
your salid dish. This is a good relish eaten with toasted cheese, 
or oold fowl, and other choice meats. 

SALAD FOB OOLD LAMB. 

Wiih and chop finely three large lettuoM. HaT« leadj a banoh 



122 SALADS. 



of hcafbe de capudUn a buncli of water creaaea, half a dozen young 
radishes, a little punnet and cress, two or there sprigs of tarragOQ 
leaves, a handful of corn-salad, twelve young chives* and a boiled 
beet root. Pour into a salad bowl two table-spoonsful of Lucca or 
Florence oil, a tea-spoonful of sweet anchovy sauce, ateaspocnful of 
Cliili vinegar, the yolks of three hai-d-boiled eggs beaten up with 
cream, with salt to taste. Mix all together, adding a gill of vine- 
gar. Cut up' the roots and esculents, and stir them in till the 
salad is svenl/ mixed. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Take ripe tomatoes and cut them in thin slices ; sprinkle over 
them a small quantity of finely chopped green onions, add salt, 
pepper, vinegar, and oil if liked. The oil should be in the propor- 
tion of three table-spoonsful to one of vinegar. Serve with any 
roast meats. 

POTATO SALAD. 

When materials for a salad are scarce, this is a good way of dis- 
posing of cold potatoes. Slice them, and dress them with oil, vine- 
gar, salt, and pepper, precisely like any other salad ; adding a little 
chives, or an onion, and parsley chopped fine. If oil is not agree- 
able, use cream or a little melted butter. 

THE poet's salad. 

Pass two well boiled potatoes through a sieve, add a tea-spoon- 
ful of mustard, two tea-spoonsful of salt, one of essence of ancho- 
vy, quarter of a tea-spoonful of very finely chopped onions, well- 
bruised into the mixture, three table-spoonsful of oil, one of vine- 
gar, the pounded yolks of two hard boiled eggs. Stir it up thor- 
oughly before serving. 

lettuce salad. 

Chop lettuces small and mix in a little of young onions if liked, 
make a sauce for them in the proportion of a table- spoonful o 
sugar to two of vinegar, and a little black pepper. 

HOTCH POTCH. 

Green tomatoes, cabbage, and cucumbers, one pint of eac^ 



SALADS. 128 

hailf-arpmt of onions ; chop all very fine, salt well, let fhem stand 
one night, after which strain through a sieve, and add pepper^ 
horseradish, white mustard seed, and half pint of sugar ; mix 
well, lightly, fill your jar, and cover with good vinegar. 

CHOW CHOW. 

One peck of green tomatoes, six onions, four green peppers ; 
chop fine, mix salt with them, let them stand one night, then 
squeeze through a doth all moisture ; after which add one table- 
spoonful of allspice, one of cloves, one of black pepper, four 
table-spoonsful of horseradish, one half pound of white mustard 
seed, mix it well, pack it in your jar, and cover with good vine* 
gar. 

CABBAGE AND VINBOAB. 

Take half a cup of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of buttei heated 
well. Beat an egg and stir into it, but after it is cool enough, so 
as not to cook the egg. Then cut up your cabbage, add salt and 
pepper ; pour the mixture warm over it and set aside for dinner. 

COLE SLAW. 

Take the small head of a cabbage aft«r removing six or seven 
outside leaves and cutting off the stalk as close as possible, chop 
fine, and mix with plenty of vinegar, salting it to taste. 

AN EXCELLENT CHOW CHOW PICKLE. 

Take one large head of slaw cabbage, two large bunches of 
celery, and twelve onions; slice all fine and salt well. Afi^er 
twenty-four hours, drain well and cover with vinegar, to remain 
twelve hours ; then drain firom the vinegar ; add four red peppers 
and two green ones, finely cut up ; one ounce of tumeric, quarter 
of a pound of mustard-seed, two table-spoonsful of mixed mus- 
tard, one spoonful of allspice, half the quantity of cloves, onfl 
table-spoonful of black pepper, half a cup of sweet oil, one cup of 
brown sugar ; mix all together and cover with vinegar. More cele- 
ry may be used if desired. 

TOICATO SOT. 

To a' peck of green tomatoes put a tea-cap of fine salt and a 



124 BALABt. 

dozen green peppers. Chop tomatoes and peppers fine, wofk tfaa 
•alt well through the whole. Let stand twenty-fbor honrs ; theo 
drain the brine off, spice to taste with cinnamon and doTes, pack 
lown in a jar, and just cover with vinegar, in which the spice has 
been boiled, while it is hot. 

HANDT CHOW CHOW. 

Chop together very finely a head of cabbage, six green peppers, 
iiz green tomatoes, add two tea-spoonsM of mnstard, sufilcieni 
salt, vmegar to wet it, an 1 if desired a little cloves and allspice. 
It is ready then for use and will keep a long time. No better 
appedier can be made. 



EGGS. 



BOILBD. 

Fut Hie required number of eggs into a saucepan containing &atl* 
mg water sufficient to cover them, and put it in a place on the range 
where it will keep boiling hot, but not boil. Let them stand seven 
minutes. When taken up, they will be found thickly and delicious- 
ly jellied throughout, and perfectly digestible. It is a much better 
and more certain way, than boiling them. 

Another method is to let them boil gently for thirty minutes. 
This is an excellent plan for persons who like hard boiled eggs, or 
for invalids, as eggs cooked for this length of time can be easily 
digested, by the most delicate stomach. 

SCRAMBLED. 

Beat up a dozen eggs and turn them into a pan in which a little 
butter has been allowed to melt ; throw in finely chopped boiled 
bam or parsley, and a little pepper and salt, and toss about rapid- 
ly, to prevent sticking. Serve upon buttered toast. 

POACHED. 

Carefully break fresh eggs into a shallow pan of boOing water ; 
have ready slices of buttered toast, and when the white part has 
set round the yolks, take them up with a skimmer and lay each one 
upon a slice of bread. They are seasoned at table. 

BUTTERED EGOS. 

Warm a piece of butter in a saucepan, add pepper and salt, oi 
other seasoning. Break in the eggs, stirring them very quickly 
with a fork over the fire, and take them off instantly they begin to 
set. Continue the stirring for a minute, and serve on buttered 
toaft. 



120 1008. 

FBIKD (with A«N.) 

Bre«K «gga one by one, into s saucer, and slip them into a pai 
ID which ham has been lightly and quickly browned, (not dried up,^ 
and A? them a light brown on the auderaide; by this time the} 
irin have assumed consistency on the top, and miut be taken □{ 
Mrefnlly with a fish-slice or skimmer, without turning, and pl&cec 
found the edge or the dish, the ham occupying tbe centre. 



!nie proper way to make an omelet is to take three tes-Bpo<xi» 
iiil of milk fbr eacb egg, and a pinch of salt to each one also ; beal 
the e^a lightly for three or four minutes, and pour them into i 
hot pan in which a piece of butter the size of a wailnut has been 
melted a moment before ; the mass will begin to bubble and rise 
immediately, and the bottom must be liHed incessantly with a clean 
knife so tliat the softer parts run in. An omelet should be cooked 
diree or Ibur minutes, and, made in this way, will melt in the 
month. If desired, beat with the eggs finely chopped bam or 
parsley. In sLdlng the omelet from the pan to the dish, fold il 
double. 

PUFF OUBIAT. 

Beat tbe yolks of six eggs light, mix with a small tea-cnp o( 
milk, and little salt. Beat together of sweet butter and fiour eadi 
a table- spoonful until smooth ; add t.lie mixture to the custard, and 
beat the whole well together. Pour into a buttered pan, and when 
it appears to thicken add the whites, well beaten ; dust over a trifle 
of salt, and when tbe whole is stiff, remove carefully to the dish. 



Take a calf's kidney roasted, chop it finely and beat it witli Uw 
e^B ; cook them as directed for plain omelet. 



Beat half a dozen eggs as for plain omelet, chop fine par* 
and civea, take two table-spoonsful of parsley; and one ofd 
beat with the eg^, and put all in a pan in which tJbree or G 



Koos. 127 

ounces of butter are melted ; fiy, dropping a piece of butter the 
size of a nutmeg under it when half done, so that it will not adhere 
to the pan, and serve hot. 

ASPARAGUS AND EGGS. 

Boil the good part of the asparagus in water and a little salt, 
diain it and chop it fine, beat it with the eggs as for omelet; put 
.t in a pan with hot butter in it, fry and serve hot. Sorrel may bo 
cooked with eggs in the same manner. 

EGGS AND APPLES. 

Beat up the eggs as for omelet, pare and slice the apples, h^ 
them in a little butter, take them out, and stir them in with the 
eggs. Melt a little butter in the pan, put in the eggs and apples ; 
fry, turning over once and serve it hot. 

EGGS AND MUSHROOMS. 

Dress and chop the mushrooms, beat them with the eggs as for 
omelets, melt a little butter in the pan, and put them in ; fry them, 
and serve hot. 

FANCY OMELET. 

Make four omelets of three or four eggs each, one plain, one 
with herbs, one with apples, one with asparagus or sorrel. Serve 
on the same dish, one lapping over the other. 

EGGS AND HERRINGS. 

Beat up three or four eggs, according to the quantity required, 
with pepper, a little parsley, a green onion cut very fine. Also 
open a red herring at the back, broil it and mince it fine. Add aU 
together, and fry in a frying-pan with a little grease. No salt ii 
required, as the herring is salt enough. 

EGGS AND CHEESE. 

Into a pie dish put four or five spoonsful of cream, or milk 
thickened with fiour ; break into it some six or eight eggs without 
breaking the yolks; sprinkle over the whole some grated cheese, 
and a little pepper. Bake in an oven, without allowing the yolks 
to harden. 



128 MQQB. 



nCKUED SQGfl. 

Take as many eggs as you wish to pickle, cover them with cold 
water, let them come to a boil, and boiljf!o« minutes. Take 
off and put into cold water ; reraoye the shells carefully, and pot 
the eggs in a jar. Take as much strong vinegar as will cover 
them, with cloves, allspice, black pepper, and a little red pepper ; 
when it comes to a boil, pour it upon the eggs, with a little salt. 
Cover down when cold. They will be ready for use in three days, 
Irat are best when about a week old. 

TO FRB8EKVK EGG8.-^1. 

Make a pickle of quick lime and salt strong enough to bear np 
an egg. Put in your eggs point downward, and they will keep 
perfectly for a year. Another method is to rub the outside of each 
egg with a piece of fried fat, and then put them in a jar, small end 
downward, in which has been placed a layer of coarse salt. Al- 
ternate a layer of salt with a layer of eggs until the jar is filled, 
rubbing each egg with grease, and placing always the small end 
down. Cover down tight and keep in a cool, dry place, and they 
will keep from June to June again, 

TO FKBSERYE EGGS. — 2. 

Store them away before they are twenty-four hours old. Pack 
them in a cask with plenty of bran, taking care that they do not 
touch each other. Another method is to place them m a box, small 
end downwards, in salt which entirely covers them. 



VEGETABLES. 



BOILED POTATOES. 

New potatoes are scraped instead of peeled. In peeling, tin 
diinner the portion taken off, the better. The nutriment of a po^ 
tato is contained within half an inch of its surface, and careless 
hacking with a large knife will waste half of it. Late in the sea« 
8on» when potatoes are old, they may be pared and put to soak in 
cold water four or five hours before cooking. In boiling put a 
small handful of salt in tfee water, and let it boil before putting in 
tiie potatoes. Pour the water off, and let them stand uncovered 
near the fire to dry. To steam them, the pot may be returned to 
the fire covered with a coarse cloth. The water should be poured 
off the moment they show a tendency to crack, or a fork will pass 
easily through them. The potatoes for each mess should be of as 
e(|ual size as possible. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

After being boiled break them to a paste and season with a lit- 
tle butter, salt and cream or milk. If any are left over press them 
down in a dish, and the next morning cut in slices and fry brown, 
with butter and pepper and a little chopped parsley. 

FBIED POTATOES. 

Peel half a dozen medium potatoes, cut them up small, and put 
them into cold water for about half an hour ; take them out, dry 
with a towel, and put them in a frying-pan, with two ounces of 
butter and a little salt ; cover down, and every little while, shake 
and turn them ; when they are tender, and of a clear, light, rich 
brown, they are done ; the grease should be drained off from theiii« 
and they are ready to send to table. 



TXOBTABLE8. 



POTATO SBtVIMOB. 



Want and pe«l three or four large potatoes, then continue cat- 
ling tbem into thin wide ribbona, as evenly aa poaaible. Hava 
teadj boiling fat, drop them into it: irhen they are done a lighf 
browD drain them well over the stove and send them to table im- 
mediately, before they lose th^'J crispnesa 

STEWED POTATOBe, 
Pare the potatoes, cut them in slices, throw them into hot wst^ 
to rinse, then put Ihem in the sauce pan with boiling water eoongh 
fbr gravy. When nearly done season with pepper, salt, and a 
little batter ; and thicken with flour batter. Let it boil up two at 
three times, and send to the table. 



The most wholesome method of preparing potatoes is to bak« 
them in hot aahes, and eat tbem with butter. To bake theni in a 
Btove, wash and rinse them, place them on a tin, and let them re' 
main in the oven about two hours. Send them to the table with 
the skins on, or mash them with a little salt and gravy or cream. 
They are vety good served with cold meat. 

POTATO H». 

Uake a thin pie-crust In the usual way, and line with it a baatn 
or deep pie-dish. Fill to the top with (inely-sbrcd potatoes, among 
which mix an onion Or two, sliced very thin, pepper and salt, and 
a little butter, dripping, or lard. Pour over all as much good milk 
or cream as tbe dish or basin will hold. Either cover with a crust 
or not, according to option, and bake in a slow oven. 



Take two pounds of very mealy boiled potatoes, mash diem 
very fine with a little salt, mix them with two pounds of flour, add 
milk enough to beat this into dough, beating it up with a spoon, 
and ptit in a little yeast. Set it before tbe fire to rise, and when 
tt has risen, divide it into cakes the size of a muffin, and bake tbem. 
These ms^ be cut ofieo sod buttered hot. 



TBaATABLES. 181 



POTATO PUDDmO. 

Mash up well all your cold potatoes with a fork, moisten with 
inHk, add two table-spoonsful of flour, two table-spoonsful of 
minced onions, and one ounce of grease to every pound of mashed 
potatoes. Put into a basin, bake till brown, which will be about 
half an houk-, and serve hot. 

POTATOBS A LA GREBOE. 

Put into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, a dessertspoonful 
of flour, some parsley and scallions, both chopped small, salt and 
pepper ; stir these up together, add a wine glass of cream, and set 
it on the fire, stirring continually until it boils. Cut some boiled 
potatoes into slices, and put them into the saucepan with the mix- 
tore, boil all together, and serve them very hot. 

SCOLLOPED POTATOES. 

Beat boiled potatoes fine with cream, a large piece of butter and 
fome salt. Put it in scollop shells* smooth them on the top 
foore with a knife, lay thin slices of butter on them and brown 
tfaem quickly before the fire, or in the oven. 

TO BOIL VEGETABLES GREEN. 

Dress them, and throw them into plenty of boiling water which 
has been salted and well skimmed ; boil them fast until well done, 
keeping them uncovered, but being careful that they are not smok- 
ed. If the water is hard, a third of a tea-spoonful of carbonate 
of soda may be added with the salt to improve the color, but too 
much will injure them, and if green peas are being boiled, will re- 
duce them to a mush. 

GBEEN CORN. 

Take two dozen ears of green com well cleaned firom the silk, 
shghtly cut off the edge of the kernels with a sharp knife, and 
scrape the remainder off. Place in a pot with two tea-cupsful of 
water. When cooked out so there is danger of burning, thin with 
sweet milk : when done, season with salt and pepper ; add butter 
to yoor uwte 



132 TEGETABLSB. 



GRKBN CORN ON THB EAR. 

Select a dozen more or less, of nice, young ears, free them firom 
everr particle of silk, and throw them into boiling water with a 
table-spoonful of salt If very young, fifteen minutes will cook 
tlipm. As the com grows older, it will require more time Serve 
bot, with butter, pepper and salt. 

CORN OYSTERS. 

Take six ears of boiled com, three eggs, one and a half table- 
spoonsful of flour. Beat the yolks very thick ; cut the com off the 
oob, season it with pepper and salt ; mix it with the yolks, and add 
the flour. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in with the 
com and yolks ; put a dessert-spoonful at a time in a pan of hot 
Dutter, and fry to a light brown on both sides. 

SFRINO GREENS. 

Young beet and turnips tops make nice greens in the eariy 
spring. Pick, and wash them carefully from dust and insects, and 
boil with them a small piece of salt pork, bacon, ham or corned 
beef. Drain free from water, and serve with vinegar. They may 
be boiled plain, and served with gravy sauce. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Strip off the kernels from a dozen ears of nice sweet com, veiy 
close to the ear, with a sharp, thin knife. Put them in a saucepan 
with a quart of Lima beans, a little veal stock or gravy or plain 
water, and let them simmer steadily, till the moisture is absorbed, 
and the corn and beans tender. Add then, a cup of milk, a smal 
piece of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and let all simmer to- 
gether until thoroughly amalgamated. Serve in covered dish. 
Succotash is very good made with string beans, cut small, and 
boiled with a slice of sweet salt pork ; it then requires neither milk 
Dor butter. 

SQUASH FRITTERS. 

One pint of cooked squash, one pint of milk, two eggs and a 
little salt , and sufficient flour to make them turn easily on the gnd- 
dle 



TSGBTABUIS. 1^ 



BOILBD SQUASH. 

Peel a nioe spring sqaasb, take out the seeds and coarse part 
from the centre, cut it up in slices, and put it to stew with a little 
water, in a small corered saucepan. When it is quite tender, 
mash it, pat to it a spoonful of cream or a little butter, pepper 
and salt to taste, and keep hot, till wanted for the table. 

SJBA KALE. 

This should be boiled quite white, in milk, and may be served 
on toast like asparagus. 

STEWED CUCUMBERS. 

Cot them in quarters,* peel and remove the seeds, boil until ten* 
der, and serve with toasted bread and sweet cream. 

SAD9IFY OR VEGETABLE OYSTER. 

The roots look like horseradish ; they must be well scraped, cut 
in two, and parboiled. The water is thea drained off, the plant 
cut up fine and boiled up in milk, with a little butter, pepper and 
salt. Some persons think it acquires more the taste of the oyster, 
by having a little cod-fish stirred among it, but we prefer it with- 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. 

They should be boiled, putting them at first into cold water, and 
must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too 
Mft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee 
sauce. When boiled, if rubbed through a sieve with some fresh 
batter and cream, they form a splendid purre as a sauce for cutlets, 
or as a thickening for some sorts of white soup, or they may h% 
sliced and fried. 

ARTICHOKE FRACIS 

Baving parboiled the artichokes, remove the middle leaves, para 
il, Staff the centre with forcemeat and bake them until the meat if 
done. Serve with melted batter 



TKIBTABLBI 



Fan the t.umipfl, cnt tbem in faair an 
be«f, mutton, or lamb. When they be 
qiKir (h>m them and mash them with pe 
be aerred in tbia va;, or tbej may b 
irith white aanee. 

Tbia ia a delicioiu regetsble. Select e 
and cnt it in rouDd, thin slicea. Spr 
each slice, and then cover them down 
ituid for an bour. Then rinse off the i 
throw away tbe liquid at the bottom of t 
colored ; wipe each slice dry, dip it in ej 
fry it in half lard, and half butter, a fin' 

SPIH&CR. 
Pick apart and wash carefully in thre 
the Bsucepan with a little salt. Press it 
it boil quickly about Gfteen minutes. V 
colander, and press out the water, PI 
it with a fork so that it may lie hollow j i 
egg sauce, and garnish with hard boilet 
quires no water in boiling, the expres: 
dent to keep it moiat, and the ajunach 
tban with it. 

lliew are relished by many as wel 
Hide way. Take tbe young leares be 
while in tbe bud, maab quite clean, b* 
dram well and press them dry. Tbey 
melted butter, or can be chopped and 1 
iait, and a litde butter rolled in flour, 
gravy or cream. A large quantity sbouli 
Tery much. Tbe dandelion is considei 
dight bittemwa is relished by moat pen 



TBGBTABLB8. 186 



VKENCH BEANS. — 1. 

We& Traill the beans ; after scalding them, color some batter is 
a sauce) 4IB, toss up the beans in it over the fire, season them witli 
•alt and pepper, and when dishing op add a veiy little vinegar. 

FRBNGH BSANS. — 2, 

String the beans, cut them in two and then across, sprinkle then 
with salt, pi^t them in boiling water and boil them up quiddy. 

TOXTNO BEETS BOILED. 

Beets are sweeter, and better when young, than when ihej 
have attained full size. Wash, and boil them, take off the skins 
after they are boiled, and put over them pepper, salt, and a little 
butter. When they have grown older, they require vinegar, and 
are indeed only fit for a pickle. Be careful never to prick beets 
in putting them in the pot, or while they are cooking, as that 
spoils the color, and injures the flavor. 

V 

ASPARAGITS. 

Cut off the white ends, removing most of that which is hard ; 
scrape the hard ends a little. Put them in cold water for a short 
time, then tie them up in small bundles. When the water boils, 
put them in with a little salt ; boil until tender, about fifteen or 
twenty minutes. Toast a slice of bread brown on both sides. 
Take them up carefully, dip the toast in the asparagus water, and 
lay the heads on it with the white ends outwards. Four melted 
butter over them, and if desired garnish with quarters of an 
orange. 

STEWED TOICATOES. 

Pour boiling water over ripe tomatoes to crack the skin» so that 
it can be removed ; then cut them into small pieces, squeeze out 
some of the seeds without losing too much of the juice, then stew 
them without water, seasoning them with butter and salt. Aa 
onion, chopped fine may be stewed with diem. Pepper may be 
■ddad while stewing, or added at the table to each personal taatt. 



— ".*«<* >-** 



136 TSGXTABLSS, 



OBXBN FBAS. 

These slioald be finesh and newly shelled. Wash Aem and pat 
them into enough boiling water to cover them, with a few leavei 
of mint, and a small piece of butter. Stir them occasimiaUj and 
when tender drain the water from them, sprinkle on a litde salt 
and serve them with melted butter. 

ONIONS, BOILED. 

Put them, after being peeled, in boiling watet. Then when they 
are tender pour the water off, add butter, pepper, salt and a little 
milk, stew them up again and send them to the table hot. 

FRICASSEED PAKSNIPS. 

Boil them in water until they are tender, then cut them into 
pieces two or three inches long, slice them and stew them in half a 
capful of cream or milk, half a cupful of broth, a piece of floured 
batter, and pepper and salt. 

FBDBD PAB8NIPS. 

Boil them tender ; when they are cool, slice them lengthwise, 
and fry them with some thin slices of boiled salt pork. Put in the 
parsnips when the fat is hot, pepper them, brown them on both 
sides ; crisp the pork, and serve with them. 

BOILED PARSNIPS. 

Wash, scrape, cut out every speck or discolovation, and if large 
divide them. Put them in boiling water, skim it occasionally and 
let them boil from twenty to thirty minutes. Serve *hem mashed 
or plain, with melted butter. 

PORTUGAL ONIONS STEWED. 

« 

Boil in water until they begin to soften, let them drain, pot in a 
liewpan, cover with good thick brown gravy ; let them remain 
mtil they are perfectly tender, and pend them to table. 

PORTUGAL ONIONS TRIED. 

Pm« aad out them in tUces; firy in batt«r or lard, or fill froa 



«>oldng meat; atir constantly whfle fiying, and let them be of • 
^krk brown color. 

LDIA BSANB. 

Shell the beans, put them in a considerable water, boiling with 
pickled parsley and sufficient salt ; boil them quickly, and when 
done stram off the water ; take them out, and season them with 
batter, pepper, and salt ; garnish with boiled parsley. 

BB8T PORK AND BBAKS. 

Pick over a quart of small white beans, put them to soak orer 
night. Set them to boil the next morning, throwing off the water, 
just before they reach boiling point. Cover with cold water 
again, put in a square pound of nice sweet salt pork and let both 
boil together till the beans are tender. When the beans are done, 
the water should have all become absorbed ; they are then put in 
one pan to brown, and the pork in another, scoring the latter 
first, through the skin. Before serving set the pork in the centre 
of the beans. Serve with pickles and horseradish. 

BOILED CABROTS. 

To bofl carrots in their own juice, wash dean and scrape them, 
cutting out discolored spots ; cut them in rather thick slices and 
throw them into as much boiling salted water as will cover or barely 
float them, and no more. Boil gently till they are tolerably ten- 
der, then boil very quickly to evaporate the water, of which only a 
spoonful or so should be left in the saucepan. Sprinkle on them a 
little pepper, put in a small piece of butter rolled in flour, turn and 
toss them gently till their juice is thickened by them, and adheres 
to them ; serve immediately. They are improved by adding a des- 
sert spoonful of minced paisley, with the butter aod a little thick 
cream mixed with a very little flour to prevent its r ardling. Gra- 
vy may be used instead of cream. 

CARROTS WITH PARSLBT. 

Take boiled carrots, and divide them down the length once, if 
rery large divide again ; then cut them in slices the thickness of a 
•ilvor quarter of a dollar. Take some sprigs of parsley^ parboil 



188 yXOETABLES. 

and diop them small ; then put the sliced carrots into a stewpan 
with the chopped parsley, a little bit of butter, some pepper, and 
salt, and a little cold gra^y ; toss them over the fire till hot» and 
senre. 

BOmCD CABBAGE. 

Take off the outer leaves, cut the head in halves oi quarters, and 
boil quickly in a large quantity of water, until done Drain and 
press out the water, chop fine and season. Boil from half an hoar 
to an hour. The water can be drained off when they are half 
done, and fresh water added if desired. 

BROCCOLI. 

♦ 
Cut the heads with short stalks, peel off the hard outside skm, 

which is on the stalk and small branches, wash them, boil them fif- 
teen minutes, tie the shoots into branches, add a Uttle milk or cream, 
and stew gently for ten minutes more until the stalks are tender. 
It should be eaten, like asparagus, on toast with drawn butter. 

BUTTERED CABBAGE. 

Boil cabbage with a quanity of onions, then chop them together, 
season with pepper and salt, and fry them in butter. It is a rather 
homely but savory dish, and is frequently used with fried sausages 
laid over it, or as an accompaniment to roast beef 

A CABBAGE REUSH. 

Take the stalks of cabbage, scrape them, leave them in the wa 
ter all night, and the next day cook them like vegetable marrow* 
and they will be found very good. 

A RED CABBAGE RELISH. 

Put the cabbage sliced into a stewpan, with sliced onion accord- 
mg to taste ; add half a teacup of vinegar, and let it simmer four 
or five hours, stirring frequently. When dished, add a little flocL 
and butter. 

RED CABBAGE STEWED. 

Aft^ slicing a small red cabbage, and well washing it, pot it 



TBGSTABLSS. 139 

into a saacepan with pepper, salt, and butter, but no more water 
than will hang about it after the washing. Cover it closely, and let 
it 8tew two or three hours or until very tender, and shortly before 
serving add two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and give it one boil 
over the fire. It may be served with cold meat, or with sausagei 
on it. 

FBENCH CABBAGE 

Boil together as many different vegetables as are convenient, bat 
with them must be a pint of split peas, and a cabbage cut into 
quarters, and tied with thread. Add two spoonsful of nice olive oil, 
melted butter, or cream, pepper, and salt. When cooked enough, 
pour off the liquid, (which save for another time,) and leave the 
rest to stew. 

YSQBTABIJS ICARROWS. 

Feel the marrow, then divide down the centre, and take the 
seeds out; cut the marrow in pieces, boil until quite soft, then 
drain in a colander until all the water is out ; beat well with a fork 
and season with pepper, salt, and a lump of sugar. They are also 
very nice sliced and boiled, then laid upon toast, with melted but- 
ter poured over, like asparagus. 

VEQETABLB MARBOW TABT. 

Peel and core the marrow, cut into small pieces, boil until quite 
soft, drain the water well from it, and beat with a fork until all the 
lumps are out. Have ready three eggs, well beaten with a little 
milk, mix with the marrow until it is in the consistency of custard ; 
sweeten it, and add a little grated nutmeg ; pour into shallow dishes, 
lined with short paste, similar to baked custards. 

CAUIIFLOWKB. 

Break off the green leaves, cut the flower close at the bottom, 
from the stalk ; if large, divide into four quarters. Put into cold 
water, lot it lie not over an hour, then put into boiling milk and 
water, or water only — milk makes it white — skim while boiling. 
When the stalks are tender, take it up, which must be done befora 
ik loses its crispness. Lay it on a doth or colander to drain, and 
•erve with melted butter. 



t40 TXOBTABLSS. 



BABUBIT GAT7LIFLOWBR 

Pat into a frymg pan, amidst boiling grease, a few small maali* 

ooms or mushroom buttons, and the flower part of a cauliflowei 

or broccoli, broken into sprigs. Sprinkle over them some grated 

cheese, and baste the whole well from time to time with tbe hot 

frease. This ii a delicioas food, and verj nutritiom. 



PASTBT. 



tWDJSQB AND FDBB. 



A gmA <Mar has been ^aid lately against puddings and piet« 
and desserts generally. People have been warned against them 
as unwholesome ; long catalogues of diseases, — in fact, all the ills 
that flesh is heir to, have been laid to their charge ; and all, W6 
yerilj beiieve, without any more reason than could be giren for 
stopping the use of fuel, because some people are careless enough 
to set fire to their dresses, or their houses. 

The dessert is to many people the most important part of the 
dinner ; it is always so to children, and there is no reason why it 
should not be just as healthy, just as digestible as the dinner. In 
fact, there are many persons, who neither eat puddings nor 
pies themselves, nor allow their children to eat them, who will yet 
compel them to swallow tough, ill-cooked meat, soggy potatoes, 
and bread, heavy, sour, and indigestible, as so much lead. 

Eating is not merely a duty, it is one of the pleasures of life ; 
and pains should be taken by every housekeeper to make it a 
source of as much enjoyment as possible. The dessert is the holi- 
day part of the dinner ; it is a subject of expectation and antici- 
pation — ^it affords an opportunity of making up for a rather slim 
first course, and often drives away the unpleasant remembrance of 
a cold leg of mutton, or impenetrable beef-steak. 

Of course, it requires a little time and judgment — every detafl 
it housekeeping does, and should be adapted to the dinner which 
las preceded it. 

When the meal is hot, — and hearty, a light, simple dessert it 
sufiicient, but when it consists of cold meat, or some make-shift 
vanned up from the previous day, nice firuit puddings, and liome<i 
Made pies, deep and good, are very welcome. 



142 PiJITST. 

We always suspect a man who does not like pie or padding, jtul 
as we would a woman that did not love children ; he is sure to be 
cross, and hard to manage, difficult to please, and never feels good 
natured. not even after his dinner. 

Solid flour puddings are al^ayd doubtful. Thej are too hearf 
for this climate, unless made a very important part of the dinner 
Desserts require to be fruity, — ^fruity in substance, fruity in flavor. 
We do not condemn all pastry, but in puddings and pies, Hie mors 
fruit and less paste, the better. 

Fruit alone makes a very good dessert ; and when in the season, 
and plentiful, a very cheap one. Apples, grapes, melons, pears, 
and peaches, are all fine for dessert, and can be used singly, at 
combined, according to means, and occasion. 

Nuts, with apples, are excellent in winter ; but nuts should never 
be put on the table alone, — ^they are not only indigestible, but with 
out juicy fruit as an accompaniment, unpalatable. A dish of ap- 
ples, or oranges, will be found a very welcome addition to a des- 
sert composed of any kind of pie or pudding in which fresh fruit 
is not an ingredient, such as plain rice, com starch, custard, and 
the like. 

Bread and butter, apple-sauce, and a cup of tea, winds np a 
family dinner very nicely, on washing or any other day, when it is 
not convenient to have an}'thing else. 

But whatever your dessert is composed of, be careful to have it 
put upon the table with due ceremony. Children are great observ- 
ers of small matters of etiquette, and quickly notice the difference 
between company, and family manners. Do not, because '* there 
is no one present,^* allow it to be huddled upon the table, amidst a 
confusion of meat and vegetables, without changing the plates, or 
the knives and forks, and brushing off the table cloth. Go through 
** all the motions.^* A little ceremony in families is a good thing ; 
it preserves the respect of the members for themselves and each 
other ; it prevents the familiarity which breeds contempt, and teaches 
children how to behave away from home. If circumstances require 
a degree of hurry which compels you to waive ceremony, apologise 
fts you would to fronds, were they present, and request the other 
members of the family to proceed as usual. 

But be sure, young housekeepers and young mothers, not to 



PASTBT. 148 

relinquish your pies and puddings, it is one way of appealing to. 
and winning the hearts of husbands, and children. Moreover, 
acquire the practice, and as a general rule make them yourself 
There are very few servants that can be trusted with the use of 
die materials required, or who can make the same article twice alike 
[t is also a privilege which a good wife and mother will not like 
to forego, to compound the particular dish of which husband and 
children are so fond, and which they will always remember in con- 
nection with her kind heart, and skillful hand, as long as they live 
Wlio that has lived to man^s or womar's estate, but remembers 
something which " mother ^ used to make, the like of which no one 
could make or ever will again, and in nineteen cases out of twenty 
it is some especial pie or pudding. 

POTATO PEB CRUST. 

Put a tea-cupful of rich sweet cream, to six good sized potatoes 
after they have been well boiled, and mash fine. Add salt to 
taste, and flour enough to roll out the crust. Handle it as little as 
possible. It is better not to put crust at the bottom of a pie if 
the fruit is very moist, for it will be clammy from the moisture, but 
let the under crust only cover the rim of the plate. Prick the up- 
per crust to let out the steam, else the juice will run over. This 
paste is excellent for apple dumplings, or meat pies, and may be 
eaten by the most fastidious dyspeptic. 

PUFF PASTE. 

Take four ounces of the best wheat flour, four ounces of sweet 
butter ; divide the butter into three parts ; take one of the three 
pieces and rub it into the flour with the hand, till well mixed ; 
then stir in a table-spoonful of water, and form with a spoon into 
a very stiff paste ; put it on a marble table or a very smooth board, 
and roll it out once each way ; fold the four ends inwards, and roll 
first lengthways, and then sideways ; spread on half the remaining 
batter m little pieces, sprinkle with flour, fold and roll as before ; 
spread on the rest of the butter and repeat the process ; now fold 
and roll twice, and put it away to >ool for ten minutes . Roll out 
(he paste very thin, and it is readjf for whatever use required* 



144 PASTBT. 



GRU8T FOR RAIBXD FOBS. 

Take two ounces of lard, two ounces of butter ; pat both togelli« 
er into a stewpan with a tea-cupful of water to boil ; mix it witb 
one found of sifted flour while it is boiling hot, first with a spoon 
and then with the hand. Roll out as other crust for pies. 

SU1ET CBUST FOR UBAT FDB8. 

Take the fibre from eight ounces of soft beef suet, and ponnd h 
lo a soft mash ; mix it with one pound of fine flour ; then make the 
crust in the same way as for puff paste, using the pounded suet in- 
stead of butter. It may be used for a pie at once, without setting 
tt aside to cool. 

MINCB FEES. 

Mince pies are not healthful, and one batch in a season is quite 
sufficient. A shin of beef boiled down till very tender, one pound 
of nice clear beef suet chopped very fine, a table-spoonful of salt, 
six pounds of greening apples peeled, cored and chopped, three 
pounds of raisins stoned, three of currants carefully cleaned, one 
pound of brown sugar, a cup of maple syrup, half a pound of cit- 
ron, shredded, half a pound of candied lemon peel, a quart of the 
best cider. This mixture makes rich pies, but mince pies are noth- 
ing if not rich. These are also particularly fine in flavor. In* 
stead of cider, some persons put in a quart of Madeira wine, and 
a little brandy ; but it is better not to use alcohol in food when h 
can be avoided. 

ENGLISH MINCB FDBS. 

Three and a half pounds of good chopped beef, three and a half 
pounds of suet, three and' a half pounds of raisins, three and a 
half pounds of currants, seven pounds of apples chopped, one 
pound of candied citron, two pounds of sugar, one ounce of nut- 
aiegs, four quarts of good cider, one pint best vinegar, salt, a pint 
of golden syrup. Half the raisins should be stoned and chopped, 
the other half left whole. 

The quantity, of course, may be reduced or increased ; for ex- 
aaiple, by giving five, or seven pounds of beef, to fourteen poondf 



PASTBT. 145 

of apples. Fven this proportion added to the others makes splen- 
did pies. To our taste, the proportion of suet is altogether toe 
large, one pound, especially if a shin of beef is used, being am- 
ple to secure rich pies. No common spices, such as cloTes, or all* 
spice, should be employed. 

BCRS. D.^S MINCB FOBS. 

Five pounds of beef, three of apples, one of suet, two of raiiini, 
two of currants, one tea-spoonful of salt, two of cIoycs, two of 
maco, two of cinnamon, two of allspice, one tumbler of brandy, 
one cap of wine, two pounds of sugar, one pint of molasses. 

SQUASH FIE. 

Having pared the squash and removed the seeds, stew it till soft 
and dry, then pulp it through a colander. Stir into the pulp 
enough sweet milk to make it thick as batter ; spice with ginger, 
cinnamon, nutmeg, or whatever is liked ; sweeten with sugar, and 
add four well-beaten eggs for each quart of milk used. Fill a 
pie-plate lined with crust and bake for about an hour. 

CUSTABD FIBS. 

Very nice custard pies are made with two eggs, and two large 
table-spoonsful of corn starch to a quart of milk ; sweeten and 
spice to taste ; add also salt ; the corn starch should be mixed 
smooth with milk and the eggs beaten up in it, then thin out with 
more milk ; sweeten, season, pour into pans lined with paste, and 
grate nutmeg over the top. 

AFPLB CUSTARD FIBS 

Grate, or stew to a pulp, twelve large apples ; to this add a tea- 
spoonfbl of salt, sugar, nutmeg, three eggs well beaten, a pint of 
cream or milk, and a table-spoonful of melted butter, the grated 
rind of two lemons and the juice of one ; pour the mixture into 
plates liv.ed with rich paste, and arrange strips in a network ovei 
ihe top; bake a %ht brown, and sift over them powdered sugar. 

UEMON FDB. — 1. 

Ona kmon, one orange, one sour apple, all peeled, aeeda takea 

T 



146 PA8TBT. 

out, and sliced thin ; put them in a sauce pan with one teacuplbl 
of water, and stew till soft; set aside to cool, and add half a tea« 
copfal of sugar, same of molasses, and a table-spoon heaping fiiJ 
of flour ; this makes one pie the size of a large dinner plate. 

LEMON PIE. — 2, 

One cup of hot water, one table-spoonful of com starch, one ouf 
o( white sugar, one table-spoonful of butter, juice and grated rind 
of one lemon. Cook for a few minutes ; add one egg, bake with a 
top and bottom crust. This is for one pie. 

KITTT BfAY'S LEMON CREAM FIE. 

The juice and grated rind of one lemon, one cup of white sugar, 
the yolks of two eggs, three table-spoonsful of sifted flour, milk to 
fill the plate. This makes a large pie, and should be made with 
an under crust, but not any top crust. Bake until nearly done, 
then take from the oven, and pour over it a frosting made of the 
beaten whites of the two eggs, and two table-spoonsful of powder- 
ed sugar, then set back in the oven, and brown lightly. One of 
the best pies ever eaten. 

SWEET AFFLE FIB. 

Pies made of sweet apples used in precisely the same way as 
pumpkins, omitting the ginger and adding a little lemon, if liked, 
for seasoning, are better to the taste of some than pumpkin pie 
itself. Pare cut, and stew the apples. If cooked in a covered 
deep earthen or other dish in the oven, they are better. Strain 
through a colander, add a little milk, cream is better. If there bo 
no eggs to spare, stir in a handful of flour, or about a spoonful to 
a pic. Sweeten to taste. 

OBEEN AFFLE FDS.^1. 

Grate raw, six good apples, add a cup of sugar, three table- 
spoonsful of melted butter, four eggs, a li'^tle lemon juice, a few 
dried currants, and a little spice ; line plates ivith a paste, fill and 
bake without an upper crust. One or tjro tea-spoonsfid of brand;f 
may be ised in the pie if desired. 



PASTBT. 147 



6BXEN AFFLB FIE. — 2. 

Take ripe and rather tart apples such as pippins, nissets of 
greenings ; pare, core, and cut them into very thin slices, fill the im« 
der crust, throw over them slices of fresh lemon, cinnamon, and 
plenty of white sugar ; lay on the upper crust and bake in a mild 
o\ren. 

ENGUSH AFFLB FIB. 

Lay some paste crust round the sides of a deep dish ; quarter 
the apples and take out the cores. Put in a thick layer of apples, 
cover with half the sugar you intend for your pie, some lemon 
peel grated fine and a few cloves ; then put in the rest of the ap- 
ples and sugar, and add a little lemon juice ; boil the cores and 
peelings of the apples in water with a blade of mace, until they 
are soft, then press it through a colander ; boil it with sugar, and 
pour it in the pie with a little quince or marmalade. Put on the 
upper crust and bake. 

FRUIT FIBS. 

Fruit pies should be eaten fresh and baked in tolerably deep 
earthen platters. Their excellence consists in a small quantity 
of pastry and a large amount of fruit and sugar. Line the dish 
with good paste, leaving half an inch to project over the edge. 
Fill with fruit, and cover thickly with sugar ; no spice is needed 
for fresh small fruit pies. Put on a lid of puff paste, and bring 
the outer edge of the under paste up and over it, moistening 
slightly with cold water, so that it will fasten down tight. Thif 
prevents the juice from boiling out. Notch the edge and center. 

CHBBRT, FLUM, OR ooosBBBRRY FIB. (^English method,) 

Make a good crust and lay a little around the sides of a deep 
dish. Cover the bottom with sugar, and lay in the cherries, 
plums, or gooseberries whole, sprinkle sugar over the top and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

WHORTLBBBRRT FDS, 

Wash and pick over the berries, place them an inch thick on tli« 



148 PABTBT. 

ander cnut, coTer them thickly wiCh sugar, put on the upper croft 
and bake half an hour. Other berry pies, such as blackberry and 
raspberry, are made in the same way. They require no spice ; oat 
we think whortleberries are greatly improved by having a few red 
currants, or the juice of a lemon sprinkled among them. Sift 
powdered lagar over all fruit pies before serving. 

FUMFEIN FDES. 

Take a small pumpkin, or half of a large one, stew iong and 
■lowly, then strain it, afler peeling, and cutting it in small pieces. 
Mix with this quantity of pulp, one quart of sweet milk, three eggs, 
and two table-spoonsful of corn starch mixed firdt smooth with a 
little of the milk. Salt, sugar, and ginger must be put in to taste. 
A large cup of sugar is about right ; one nutmeg. The ginger ia 
indispensable to a genuine pumpkin pie. If part cream can oe 
used the pie is much richer, as well as more delicate in flavor. 
Bake with an under crust only. 

COCOANUT PIK. 

For three pies one quart of milk, five eggs, one grated cocoa- 
nut, fieat the eggs and sugar together to sweeten, and stir into 
the milk when hot ; then add the cocoanut and spice. Put it in a 
rich paste, and bake twenty minutes. 

GRAFS FIB. 

Pop the pulps out of the skins into one vessel, and put the skins 
into another. Then simmer the pulp a little and run it through a 
colander to separate the seeds. Then put the skins and pulp to- 
gether and they are ready for jugging, or for pies. Pies prepared 
in this way can hardly be distinguished from plum pies. 

RHUBAKB FIB. 

Take off the thin skin, cut the stalks in small pieces, add a little 
flour, place it in the pie. When the paste is done remove the top 
crust and add sugar and butter, mixing it thoroughly with the rhu- 
barb. Put the top crust on and serve warm. A little nutmeg may 
be grated over the top of the fruit before putting on the orust^ if 
'i is relished. 



PA8TBT. 149 



MOCK AFFLB FDB. 

Two soda crackers, one egg, one cup of sugar, and one of 
water, the juice and jellow rind grated of a lemon. This a good 
ecipe for Spring use. 

DRDED AFFLB FIBS. 

Wash the apples in two or three waters, and put them to sc*k 
in rather more water than will cover them, as they absorb a great 
deal. After soaking an hour or two, put them into a preserving 
kettle with the same water, and with the thin peel of one or two 
. lemons, chopped fine. Boil tender ; when thej rise, press them 
down, but do not stir them. When tender, add sugar, and boil 
fifteen or twenty minutes longer. Dried apples, soaked over night* 
are made tasteless, and are mashed up by being stirred. When 
cooked, stir in a little melted butter, some cinnamon, and powdered 
cloves. It is important that the apples should be of a tart kind. 

DBIBD FLUM PIES. 

Soak the plums, and stew them gently ; season them with spice 
and sugar to taste ; put a puff paste on to the plate ; then put a 
layer of the plums, stewed ; roll out a piece of paste thin, cover 
them, add another layer of plums, and cover for the last time. 
You may have as many stories to your pie as you choose. 

CORN MEAL PIES. 

Stir a small tea-cupful of very fine ground Indian meal into two 
quarts of boiling milk ; when nearly cool add four beaten eggs, 
aod sweeten to taste, like a custard, adding spice and orange peel, 
if desired. Bake with a crust like custard pie. 



PUDDINGS. 



BUFFALO FUDDIKO. 

4 quart ^f flour, two tea-spoonsful of baking powder, a imUe- 
ipoonfiil of maizena, a salt spoon of salt, a' piece of butter the size 
of a small egg, and cold water; mix the baking powder irith the 
€our thoroughly, put in the salt and maizena, and mix to tiie con- 
sistency of drop cake. Have the butter melted and stir into the 
mass. In berry time, drop a part of this mixture in a tin pail, or a J 

steamer if you have one, which has been buttered, then put io a 
layer of berries doing up with batter. In the winter, chopped 
apples, dried currants, or any kind of dried fruit are an excellent 
substitute. Zante currants will not require previous soaking, but 
common garden fruits will. Steam the pudding for one hour and 
a half, and serve with liquid sauce. A pudding can be steamed in 
a tin pail, by inverting and old tin cup, and setting the pail upon 
it in the pot. Be sure that the water boils and keeps boiling, and 
that the pail is covered tight by its lid. This pudding contains nei- 
ther milk nor eggs, yet, if properly made, it will be thought by the 
best judges to possess both. When mixed with milk however, il 
is whiter than when mixed with water. 

ENGLISH AFFLB PX7DDINO. 

Make a paste of a pint of sifted flour, a quarter of a pound of 
finely chopped beef suet, a little salt, and cold water. Line a 
pudding bowl, fill with tart apples cut in quarters. Sprinkle a lit- 
tle sugar on the top, cover with paste, and boil an hour and a quar- 
tor. Turn out, and serve with a sweet liquid pudding sauce, spioed 
irith lemon and ginger. 



PUDDINGS. 151 



AFPLB PUDDING. — 1. 

Stew six large apples, pared and cored, in six table-spoonsfbl of 
water with the rind of a lemon. When they are tender, beat them 
to a pulp and stir with them four ounces of brown sugar, a cup of 
cieani, two well-beaten eggs, and a tea-spoonful of lemon juiee. 
Put it in a dish lined with puff paste, bake it, and when done stick 
chips of candied tntron and lemon peel in the top. 

AFFLE PUDDING. — 2. 

Peel six apples, take out the core, leaving the apple whole, fill 
them with sugar, place them in a pudding-dish, pour over them a 
batter, prepared as for a batter pudding. Bake an hour in a mod- 
erate oven. 

AFFUE PUDDING. — 8. 

Prepare six apples as for sauce, and mix with them two ounces 
of melted butter, two well-beaten eggs, bread crumbs, a little 
cream, nutmeg, sugar. Bake in small cups, turn them out and 
serve with sifted sugar. 

AFPUE PUDDING. i. 

Pare and chop half a dozen good sour apples. Butter a pudding- 
dish and put in a layer of grated bread half an inch thick, add 
small bits of butter ; put in a layer of chopped apples, with sugar 
and nutmeg, and repeat till the dish is full. Pour over the whole 
a tea-cup of cold water, and bake thirty minutes. No sauce. 

POOK MAN^S PUDDING. 

Take some stale pieces of bread, pour boiling water over them, 
and cover down tight. When they have absorbed the water, and 
become soft, mash them to a pulp. Mix in one table-spoonful of 
t;orn-starch, one egg, a cup of milk, a little salt, some sugar, and a 
few currants cleaned by rubbing in a colander with some flour. 
Bake in a dish with a few small pieces of butter on the top, and a 
little nutmeg grated over. It is good hot or cold, and when cold 
will turn out, and cut like an English cheese-cake. It is also inez 
pensive. 



Take half & potuid of mashed potatoei, h*lf a pound of grftted 
MiTob, htlf a pound of grnted bread, half a pound of aogar. 
quarter of a poaud of aaet, half a pound of curranti or raianm, 
three weU-beaten eggti a little nutmeg, cuinainoD, lemon peel and 
■alt. Stir all well together; boil four honn and nrve them with 
lauce. 

uiutoGA ruBDoia. 
Take one pint and a half of milk, two eggs, and a amall t«bl«- 
^oonfiil of flour ; mix the flour with cold milk to the conaistenoe 
tf thick cream ; boil the reat of the milk, and pour, boiling hot, 
tq>on the floor, atining all the time ; add a salC-Bpoonful of salt, 
ingar to jaur taate, and, when cool, two egga well beaten ; have 
read; a buttered dish, pour the whole into it, grate lemon-peel or 
Dulmeg over it, and bake thirty-five or forty minutea. It sfaonld 
be out of the oven fifteen minntea before aerving. It ia delidoai 
to eat cold wilb fruit. 

tMSLUl FBUIT FCDDDTO. 

Make a batter of a pint of hot milk and enough coin meal to 
make it atiff, add a little molaaaea and a tea-apoonTul of aalt ; then 
mix in a pint of aweet apples chopped, or a pint of huckleberriea, 
^e it in a wet cloth, leaving room for it to swell, put it in boiling 
water, boil three houn and lerve with sweet sance. 



Take half a pound of the pulp of roaated apples, carefuUj aep- 
anted from the skin and core, half a pound of powdered lamp 
IDgar, and the whites of two egga. First beat the eggs to a verjr 
stiff froth, then add hy degrees first the sugar and then the ap- 
ples ; beat all together for an hour, until, when taken np in the 
spoon, it stands quite atiff. With the }'olka of the two eggs maka 
a sweet custard for the bottom of the dish, and build the snow of 
by spoonsful to any height you please. Savoy cakes and aweet- 
■uat likewise laid in the dish are an improvement. 



FUBDnroB. 168 



BKfGW FUDDINO.-— 9. 

Tlie joioe of three lemons, one cop of white sugar, whites af 
threeeggs, half package gelatine. Let the gelatine stand half an 
hour in a pint of cold water, then throw off that, and add a pint 
of boiling water. Beat the eggs and sugar well, then add the 
lemon-juicQ, and gelatine, and beat till it looks like snow. 

BIBD^S MXBT FUDDINO 

Peel and core eight tart apples ; in each hollow staff sugar and 
a olade of mace, or a little cinnamon ; make a batter of a pint of 
flour, a spoonful of corn-starch, a large tea-spoonful of baking 
powder, milk, or water, and a table-spoonful of melted butter. 
Mix almost as thick as drop cake, pour over the apples, and bake 
three-quarters of an hour. Eat with sauce. 

To make a richer pudding, stew the apples first, but gently, and 
hot so as to break them, stuff them with sugar, and citron, pour 
over a sweet custard, and bake. Boil it two or three hours and 
serve with vrine sauce. 

WAgHmOTOK PUDDING. 

Scald and ^yulp llie apples, add well-beaten eggs, one egg for 
each large-sized apple, an ounce of butter in pieces, a little cream, 
candied or grated lemon peel, sugar, and a table-spoonful or more 
of brandy ; bake in a thin paste, in a mild oven. 

FBUIT PUDDINGS. 

One quart of flour, two tea-spoonsful of good baking powder, 
and a little salt. Mix to the consistency of drop biscuit, with cold 
milk or water, add two table-spoonsful of melted butter. Butter a 
mould or a small tin pail, and lay it in a layer of the batter, then 
a hiyer of any kind of fVesh small fruit, alternating them until the 
vessel is filled. Cover tight and steam an hour and a half. Eat 
with sweet liquid sauce. This is excellent without either milk or 

egg*. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Half a poimd of bread crumbs, half a pound of figs, six ouaoat 



164 pUDDnfOS. 

of moiBt sugar, four ounces of suet, two eggs, a little natmeg, 
and a tea-cupM of milk ; the figs and suet to be chopped -very 
fine, and all well mixed together ; to be boiled in a mould £br fom 
hours, and served with sweet sauce ; it is good fried in slices next 
-^y with pounded sugar sifted oyer it. 

SNOUSH ROLL PUDDING. 

Ron out half an inch thick a paste made of suet chopped fine, 
{Lour, water, and a little salt. Spread over it preserves of anj 
small kind-"damsons, currants, berries, or the like. Dust a little 
flour over it, roll up, wet and pinch the ends tight, and tie in a doth 
which has been wet with cold water and well floured. Boil or 
ft«am one or two hours, according to sise, and ^t hot with rich 
tiquid sauce. 

CITRON FUDDINO. 

Half a pound of l>utter, half pound of sugar, well beaten to- 
gether, half pound of citron cut fine, five eggs, and grated orange 
peel to taste. Bake in puff paste half an hour. 

lONNDE^S FRUIT PUDDING. 

IfGx a pound of red currants, stemmed, with an equal quantity 
of raspberries, have ready bread and butter in slices ; place a layer 
of bread and butter in the bottom of a buttered pudding dish ; then 
a layer of fruit, covered thickly with sugar, then another layer of 
bread and butter, and so on till the fruit is used up, and the dish is 
full. A thick layer of firuit and sugar should complete the top. 
Bake slowly for an hour, and serve in the same dish. It is de- 
licious and wholesome. 

UTTLB BREAD PUDDINGS. (Birthday). 

Steep the crumb part of a baker^s six cent loaf, in a pint of milk, 
until it is soft and warm. Beat up two eggs with some sugar, an 
ounce of butter warmed, a little essence of lemon, and a litde 
cream, or table-spoonful of condensed milk. Add quarter of a 
pound of Zante currants, well cleaned and floured. Pour into 
buttered cups, grate nutmeg . over tliem, and bake half or tbrev 
quarers of an hour. Serve with pudding sauce. 



PUDDnr G8« 15( 



CHERRY PUDDING. 

One pint of bread crumbs, one cup of sugar, four eggs, a quart 
aulk, grated lemon rind, a little powdered cinnamon, and salt. 
Mix thoroughly, butter a niould, and spread in a thick layer of the 
preparation, and then a layer of cherries, then another layer of 
bread, etc., and one of cherries, alternately until it is filled. doM 
tight, and steam for two hours. Eat with sweet liquid sauoe 
Blackbemes may be used instead of cherries. 

INDIAN HUCELEBBRRT PUDDINa. 

Take a quart of boiling milk and water, stir into it Indian meal 
enough to make a stiff batter. Add a little salt, a small cup of 
chopped suet, a little molasses, and a pint of huckleberries. Boil 
one hour and a half in a bag, leaving room to swell. Eat with 
fweet liquid sauce. 

Two eggs and half a teaspoonful of soda may be used instead 
of suet, and the butter, in that case made a little thinner. This 
makes a more delicate pudding. 

UTTLB BATTER PUDDINOS. 

Make a smooth batter with four fl*e8h eggs, four table-spoonsfhl 
of flour, and a quart of new milk. Fill little buttered cups, and 
stick in chips of candied citron, or lemon peel. Bake, and serve 
with wine sauce. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

Soak together the juice and peel of two lemons, the peel to be 
rubbed off with lumps of sugar, six ounces of loaf sugar pounded, 
except what has been used for the lemon peel, a good sized tea-cup 
ftd of grated bread crumbs ; beat up four eggs leaving out two of 
the whites, melt three ounces of fresh butter and mix all together 
Edge, and trim a dish with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and 
bake in a quick oven three quarters of an hour. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Pound in a mortar three ounces of fresh butter and four ounoet 
of lump sugar ; grate in the rinds of two Seville oranges, also the 



1 



156 FUDDIKQi. 

whole of a large, or two small apples. When thoroughly miaoed 
add three eggs well beaten. Spread it to the thickness of hal£ an 
inch on puff paste. Bake quickly. 

ARROWROOT PUDDING. 

llix four spoonsfid of arrow root with a teacup of new milk, 
then boil nearly a quart of milk and stir in the arrowroot. ^Vlien 
almost cold add two well-beaten eggs, two ounces of good butter 
in pieces, two ounces of pounded sugar, and a little grated nutmegs 
■tir all together and bake it a quarter of an hour or more, in a 
battered dish. 

UNNDB^S AFFLB PUDDINO. 

One pint of bread crumbs» six tart-apples chopped fine, a little 
finely chopped suet, one egg, juice and rind of one lemon, and a 
little salt mixed to the consistency of drop cake, with milk or milk 
and water. Boil in a buttered bowl or well floured bag an hour 
and a quarter, and serve with sweet liquid sauce flavored with nut- 
meg. 

AUNT MART^S FLUH FUDDDCG. 

Three quarters of a pound of grated bread, half a pound fresh 
beef suet, chopped fine, half a pound of apples chopped fine, half 
a pound of currants, same of chopped raisins, four eggs, one pint 
of milk, a table-spoonful of brandy, another of sherry, a smaU cup 
of sugar, a salt-spoon of salt. Boil in a bag four hours, eat witii 
rich sweet sauce. 

APPLE AND SAGO PUDDING. 

Peel and core as many apples as will set into the dish in which 
the pudding is to be baked ; fill the cavity in the cored apples with 
ground cinnamon and sugar. Take as many dessert spoonsfid of 
sago as you have apples ; mix it with a little cold water, and add 
as much boiling water as will be required to fill the pudding dish ; 
stir it all jhe time till it begins to thicken ; then cover it uj and let 
it stand about two hours, until the cago swells. Turn it into the 
dish, set it into a rather hct oven, and bake it one hour. Serv« 
with sugar and cream. 



-u^ 



pin^DiKas. 167 



BAKED E[!a>IAN FUDDINO. 

One qnart of milk scalding hot, one cup of Indian mea , one 
lialf cup of molasses, a piece of butter the size of an egg, a small 
lisa-spoonful of salt, a small tea-spoonful of ginger, a large tea- 
flpoonful of cinnamon. Wet the meal with cold water, and poai 
the boiling milk on it to scald it. Add one egg when cold, befbre 
baking. Bake one hour and a half. 

BOILED BICE PUDDING 

Pick and wash very clean in cold water, four ounces of rice ; 
Adct.8UL ounces of raisins and mix them equally through the rice ; 
place them in a pudding bag, leaving sufficient room for the rice 
jto swell ; boil two hours, and serve it with melted butter, stigar, 
and grated nutmeg upon it; 

BICB FUDDINO. 

To one quart of milk put a cup of rice, and simmer slowly until 
it is thick and the rice perfectly tender. Then stir in a table- 
spoonful of butter, three of sugar, and three yolks of eggs while 
H is hot, with salt to tase. Pour it in a shallow pudding dish lin- 
ed with rich paste, and bake a light brown. To the whites of the 
three eggs add six table-spoonsfiil of powdered sugar and the juice 
of a lemon, (the rind should have been grated into the rice before 
baking,) beat it up, cover the top of the pudding, and put it back 
in the oven five minutes. 

FORTUOUBSB BICE FUDDIN9 

Boil half a pound of rice in water until it begins to open, then 
•train it from the water, and boil it slowly with a quart of boiled 
milk, half a pound of loaf sugar, and the peel of a lemon ; when 
the rice is sufficiently boiled, remove it from the fire and take out 
an the lemon peel ; stir it until it becomes cool, then add four eggs 
that have been well-beaten (stirring it all the while) and a wine- 
glassfiil of orange-fiower water ; when these ingredients have beeii 
properly mixed, pour the whole into a fiat dish, and, when cold 
oover it with cinnamon powder. This is a birthday dish in Porto 
gal: as famous there as plum-pudding is in England. 



168 FUDDIHCM. 



FBXNGH BICB FUDDINO. 

Pat a pound of rice into a pint of milk and let them aiiimni 
OTer the fire until the milk is soaked up and the rice soft. Take 
It from the fire, and when somewhat cooled put into it two egga, a 
iable-spoonful of butter, a little loaf sugar, and the grated rind 
of a lemon, and stir them well together ; then butter a pudding 
mould, sprinkle in a layer of grated bread cruat, pour in tibe rioe 
and bake about an hour. 

AFFUE AND RICB FUDDIKO. 

Add to some dean rice, a sufficient quantity of milk to boil it 
soft ; with a little sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon. Fill a lai^ 
high mould with the rice ; put in a sauce pan of water and let it 
stand in the oven thirty minutes. Have ready some fresh apple 
sauce sweetened, and of lemon peel flavor. When the rice is 
done, turn it out of the mould upon a dish, and fill in the hollow 
centre with the apple sauce ; beat the whites of three eggs to a 
firoth and put it upon the apples so as to make a top to the mould 
of rice ; sift pounded sugar oyer the whole. Brown it a little over 
the top and it is ready for the table. 

BICB FLOUR FUDDINO. 

Take a quart of milk, add a pint of the flour; boil them to a 
pulp ; beat ap four eggs, to which add six spoonsful of sugar and 
one spoonfiil of butter, which, well beaten together, add to the 
milk and flour; grate nutmeg oyer the mixture, and bake in a 
well-greased dish. 

BADEN FUDDnra. 

Boil in a pint of milk, a teacupfid of rice, when it is swelled add 
a quarter of a pound of nusins, two ounces of chopped suet, two 
eggs ; stir well together and boil in a buttered mould. Serve widi 
fweet sauce, flavored with lemon or vanilla. 

SSVILLB FUDDINO. 

Boil in a quart of milk a teacupful of Carolina rice. When the 
rice is swelled and soft, mix in enough giated marmalade to ookf 



PUDDINGS. 159 

and flavor it; ponr it in a buttered mould and boil it again ti 
make it turn out ; jserve with wine sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

Wash and pick five table-spoonsful of sago, and boil it in 
^uort of milk with a stick of cinnamon until soft. Mix in oM 
table-spoonsful of powdered loaf sugar, one table-spoonful of but- 
ter ; when cold add two well-beaten eggs and a little nutmeg. Stir 
well together and bake in a buttered dish three quarters of an 
hour. 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Put a teacup of tapioca and a tea-spoon of salt into a pint and 
a half of water,, and let it stand several hours where it will be 
quite warm, but not cook. Peel six tart apples, take out the cores, 
fill them with sugar, in which is grated a litttle nutmeg and lemon- 
peel, and put them in a pudding-dish ; over these pour the tapioca, 
first mixing with it a table-spoon of melted butter and a little cold 
milk. Bake one hour. Eat with sauce. 

ICB CORN STABCB PUDDING. 

Take the cream from a quart and a pint of milk after it hai 
•tood a few hours, or long enough to ** raise." Set it away in a 
cool place, and mix with a little of the cold skimmed milk four 
heaping table-spoonsful of com starch, and two beaten eggs. 
Place on the fire meantime a quart of the skimmed milk, in a thick, 
lined saucepan, and when it comes to a boil, mix rapidly and 
smoothly with it the eggs and com starch, allowing it to boil up 
once. Pour into a mould or small oval dishes which have been 
wet with cold water to prevent sticking. A little salt is an im- 
provement. Set away in a cool place, and it will turn out clear 
and quivering. Eat with the cream taken from the milk and pow- 
dered sugar. This is a cheap, easily made, and delicious summer 
dessert. 

BOILED Y<lNKEB PLUM PUDDING 

Three cups of flour, two thirds of a cup of molasses, an egg •sise 
of lard, one cup of chopped raisins, a small tea-spoonful of salt, ■ 



160 PUDDINGS. 

cofieencap of milk, a small tea-spoonful of soda. Boil in a Ibrm 
or a bag made of thick cloth, or steam three hours To be eatoi 
hot with a liquid sauce, or butter and sugar. 

MBS. CROLY^S CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDmG. 

One pound of raisins, one of currants, one of bread-crumka, 

half-pound of suet chopped fine, eight eggs, one quart milk, one 

tea-cjp sugar, one nutmeg, quarter pound candied citron, quarter 

candied lemon cut in strips, salt, and other spice to taste. Bo3 

I slawly four hours, and eat with rich sauce. This is deliciona. 

BAKED PLUM PUDDDTO. 

Take two quarts of milk, ten soda crackers, eight eggs, one 
pound of stoned rasins, spice to suit, and sweeten with sugar ; a 
little butter. Bake from two to three hours. 

PRUNE OR DAMSON PUDDING. 

Take two well beaten eggs, a quart of milk, sufficient flour to 
make a batter, a little salt, and three spoonsfiil of ginger. Mix 
the milk in gradually with a pound of prunes ; put it in a pudding 
oag and boil it an hour or more. Serve with melted butter poured 
over it. 

ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of the best raisins stoned, and chopped a little on a 
paste board ; one pound of currants washed and picked, quarter of 
a pound of candied lemon peel ; quarter of a pound of candied 
citron, cut up in strips ; quarter pound of the best Jordan almonds 
blanched and chopped ; one pound of beef suet picked and chopped 
fine ; half pound of flour, and quainter pound of biscuit powder ; 
half pound of moist sugar ; nutmeg and mixed spices to taste ; 
half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and half a teaspoonful of 
•alt ; eight eggs, well beaten, yolks and whites separately ; and a 
gill of old ale. Then take a little milk in a saucepan, and put 
into it half a pod of vanilla. Let it simmer on the hob, with the 
lid closed until the pod is quite soft. Take out the pod and mince 
it small, put it in a mortar with a little of the milk, and bray it 
until it is reduced to a paste ; return it to the milk and pour aU 



pvDDnres. 161 

mto the pudding. Jus^. before putting the pudding into the msio 
or mould, give it a very good stir and mix in a gill 9f good brandjT. 
It will take eight hours to boil. 

FLUM PUDDING WITH SNOW. 

Mix together a pound and a quarter of flour, half a pint of 
tweet cream, a pound of stoned rasins, four ounces of currant!, 
t>nr ounces of mashed potatoes, five ounces of brown sugar, and a 
gill of milk. Work thoroughly together, season it, mix eight 
table-spoonsful of dear snow very quickly throughout the mass ; 
put the pudding in a bag and boil four hours. Two table-spoonsful 
of snow are equal to an egg in any pudding. 

SUET PUDDING. — 1. 

One small cup of chopped suet, one cup of molasses, one cup 
of chopped raisins, one cup of sour milk, half a tea-spoonful each 
of doves, dnnamon and nutmeg, one tea-spoonful of soda. Stir 
tiiis thick with flour ; pUt in a pudding bag, leaving room for it to 
lise, and boil three hours. It will be quite light. 

4UBT PUDDINO. — 2. 

Mix half a pound of miely chopped suet, two well-beaten eggs, 
salt, and half a pound of Zante currants in one pint of milk ; make 
it a thick batter with flour, tiien mix in another pint of milk and 
ooil it two hours. Serve with wine sauce. 

JEXJUBmON PUDDING. 

liGx together a quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, a 
quarter of a pound of stoned raisins, two table-spoonsful of flour, 
two table-spo<»8ful of sagar, three well-beaten eggs, the grated 
peel of a whole lemon, and a little nutmeg. Boil three hours. 

LBIOESTKRSHIKB HUNTING PUDDING. 

Mix together half a pound of chopped suet, three-quarters of a 
pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of raisins stoned and 
chopped, a pound of flour, a tambler of milk, two gills of brandy, 
four beaten eggs, a cup of sugar, and some grated lemon peel BoO 
it two or three hours, and serve with wine sauce. 



162 FUBBmock 



BBXAD FUDDma.— 1 

Take the crambs of stale bread, poor oyer it one pint oi botl- 
mg milk, and set it by to cool. When qaite cold, beat it up very 
fine with two ounces of butter, sifted sugar sufficient to sweeten 
it, grate in half a nutmeg, and add half a pound of well washed cor* 
rants ; beat up three eggs separately and mix them up with the rest, 
adding, if desired, a few strips of candied orange peel. All the 
ingredients must be beaten up together for about half an hour, as 
the lightness of the pudding depends upon that. Boil it an hour. 
Serve with wine sauce. 

BBBAD FUDDINO.— 3f. 

One pint of nice fine bread crumbs to one quart of milky one 
oap of sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, the grated rind of a 
lemon, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Bake until done, 
but not watery. Whip the whites of the eggs staff, and beat in a 
tea-cupful of sugar in which has been stirred the juice of the lemon. 
Spread over the pudding a layer of jelly, or any sweetmeat you 
liefer. Pour the whites of the eggs over this, and replace in the 
oven and bake lightly. Eat cold with cream. 

GHB6TEB FUDDINO. 

Two ounces of butter, four ounces of white sugar, (me and a 
half ounces of almonds, blanched and pounded, (six bitter, twelve 
sweet) the juice of one lemon, and the peel grated, the yolks of 
four eggs. Put all this in a stewpan over the fire, and stir it till 
it nearly boils, then pour it into a pie dish lined with lig^t pastry, 
and bake it. The whites of the eggs to be beaten up into snow, 
and put over the pudding. Just before it is taken out of the oven, 
strew a little pounded sugar over it. 

MBS. STOWB^S BBKAB IND FBUTT FDDDIKO. 

Take thin slices of white bread, nearly fill a buttered mould 
with layers of bread and layers of finiit altemat(}ly ; beat firar eggs 
mix them in a pint of warm milk, and pour it over the bread ana 
firnit. Boil it twenty minutes, and serve with white sauce. 



PUDDIKGS. 163 



AN KDITOR'S FAVOBITK PUDDING. 

Butter thinly sliced bread, and place it in a deep disn ; between 
every layer sprinkle Zante currants, weU cleaned, and, if joa 
please, chipped citron. Beat three eggs well, add them to a pint 
And a half of milk, and a pinch of salt ; pour over the bread, and 
bake slowly, with a cover on, three quarters of an hour ; then take 
the cover off and brown. Eat with sauce. Instead of the curranti 
and citron, marmalade may be spread thickly upon the bread, and 
the bread cut into small oblong pieces, to make mannalade bread 
and butter pudding. Bake half an hour. 

SAIXT LUNN PDDDINa. 

Scoop out a piece from the under side of a Sally Lunn cake 
without injuring the upper crust, and replace it. Put the cake in- 
to a basin that will just hold it, pour boiling milk over it, let it 
soak for three hours, and turn it out ; mix one egg, well beaten, 
with a glass of white wine and a little spice and sugar, and having 
removed the piece previously cut out, stir in these ingredients, still 
taking care not to break the crust, and replace the piece. Butter 
the basin you boil it in, and if not full, fill it with bread and crumbs, 
and boil three quarters of an hour. 

NUBSICBT FUDDINO. 

Stew four pounds of rhubarb with one poimd of brown sugar, 
moisten quarter of a pound of arrowroot with cold water, then stii 
it into the boiling rhubarb. It is best eaten cold, with milk oz 
cream. The children like this pudding. 

DANDY FUDDING. 

One quart of milk, yolks of four eggs, three table-spoonsful of 
eom-starch ; sweeten to taste ; scald the milk, and when very hot, 
stir in the starch, previously dissolved in cold milk. Add the eggs 
with the starch ; stir until it thickens well. To be boiled in a pail, 
set in a kettle of boiling water. Four, when done, into a pudding- 
dish. When quite cold, pour over it a frosting, made of the beat- 
en whites, with a table-spoonful of white sugar to each egg. 
Flavor both the frosting and pudding with extract of lemon oi 



164 KJBDIKaS. 

yanilla. Set the pudding in the oyen» and brown the frostm^ a 
delicate color. The colder when eaten, the better. 

ICB PUDDING. 

Bon one pint and a half of new milk with one tea-spoonfiil o£ 
ionglass. Beat five eggs and mix them with the milk as yon would 
lor costards. Take a tin mould with a cover, oiled, not buttered, 
and line it with candied fruits, such as plums, green gages, ete. 
Then pour the custard in very gradually, so that the fruit will re- 
main at the bottom. Put on the cover and bury the mould in ioe 
for the whole day, only turning out the pudding at the moment tft 
is wanted. 

THB deacon's apple INDIAN PUDDING. 

One pint of scalded milk, one-half pint of Indian meal, one tea 
i cup of molasses, tea-spoonful of salt, six sweet apples cut in thin 

•lioes ; bake three hours. 

CORN PUDDING. 

Twelve ears of com, one quart of milk, two eggs, table-spoon* 
Sol of sugar, one of flour, two tea-spoonsful of salt. Bake four 
hours ; serve with butter and sugar. 

« 

LITTLE CUSRANT DUMPLINGS. 

A pint of flour, quarter of a pound of fresh beef suet chopped 
fine, a salt spoon of salt, a quarter of picked and clean Zante 
currants, one egg, and milk, or water enough to mix to the con- 
sistency of drop biscuit. Boil in dumpling cloths, three quarters 
of an hour, a table-spoonful to a dumpling. Serve with sauce. 



SMAIX AND LIGHT PLUM PUDDING. 

Soak three ounces of the grated crumb of a stale loaf in a gill 
of boiling milk, and mix in four ounces of finely minced suet, an 
•ance of dry bread crumbs, ten ouncea itoned raisins, a little 
fait, the grated rind of an orange and thrive eggs, leaving out one 
white ; put no sugar in it. Boil the pudding two hours or more, 
and serve with very sweet sau :e. 



pin>DiNas. Id5 



THE POBT'S pudding. 

Well sugar any summer fruit, and fill a deep tart dish with layert 
of it alternated with thin slices of the inside of a light stale loaf; 
kt the upper layer be of fruit, and if it is a dry kind, sprinkle 
over it a dessert-spoonful of water or a little lemon juice. Rasp- 
berries, currante, or cherries will not require this. The sugar must 
b4\ used according to the sweetness of the fruit. For a quart of 
ripe green gages, split and stoned, five ounces will be sufficient. 
Bake in a quick oven about half an hour. 

THIS PASTOR^S PUDDING. 

Wash and pare some rhubarb stalks, cut them into short lengths 
and put a layer of them in a deep dish, with one or two spoonsful 
of sugar ; cover evenly with thin slices of a roll, then add a thick 
layer of fruit and sugar, then one of bread, then one of rhubarb, 
and then cover with a thick layer of fine bread crumbs mixed with 
a table-spoonful of sugar. Pour over a little clarified butter, and 
bake thirty or forty minutes. Good apples sliced, sweetened and 
flavored with nutmeg and lemon rind, and covered with well but- 
tered slices of bread, make an excellent pudding of this kind. 
Black currants may abo be nsed, leaving out the butter. 

BOILED INDIAN PUDDING. 

A quart of sour milk, half a cup of molasses, a cup of raisins, a 
cap of chopped suet, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, and meal enough 
to make it stiff. 

PLAIN INDIAN PUDDING. 

Seven table-spoonsful of sifted Indian meal, scalded with boil- 
ing water until the quantity is thoroughly wet ; add three pints of 
new or skimmed milk, cold, two thirds of a cup of molasses, little 
salt, four eggs. Some persons think a little chopped suet improves 
it. Place it in the oven, with a moderate heat, and bake it slowly 
tibree hours. After being in the oven a half hour stir it firom the 
bottom, as thai is apt to thicken at first. Eat with batter. 

NANTUCKET OOBN PUDDING. 

Take two dozen ears of young com, hosk, and grate or pound 



166 rimDwofl. 

it fine ; add three pints of new milk, cold, one Iialf tea-cup oi 
brown sagar, a litde salt, two soda crackers poanded fine, ax 
eggs ; pat it in the oven, with a moderate heat and bake thret 
hours. Eat with batter. 

MBS. HOWm^S FUDDINO. 

Batter lightly on both sides, seme evenly cut slices of roll, of 
of light bread freed from crust, and spread the tops thickly and 
evenly with orange marmalade. Prepare as much in this way as 
will cover the surface of the pudding without the edges of the 
bread overlaying each other, as this would make it sink to the bot- 
tom of the dish. Pour in a custard of two well-beaten eggs, new 
milk, a pinch of salt, and two ounces of sugar. Flavor with 
French brandy only. Let it stand an hour, then place it carefully 
in an oven and bake it until it is set, and no longer. Too fierce a 
heat will spoil it. The bread should be a light, clear brown, and 
the custard under it smooth and firm. 

BOILED AFPUB DUMFLINOS. 

Select apples that will cook quickly, pare and core them, leav 
ing the apple whole. Prepare a plain paste, roll the crust about 
quarter of an inch thick, cover each apple with it, and then steam 
diem about an hour; if you boil them instead of steaming them, 
make the paste of suet, put them in boiling water, and boil an hoar 

BAKED APPLE DUMPLINGS. 

Select smooth, even-sized apples ; peel, core them, and fill the 
cavities with sugar, and a little cinnamon. Divide your paste into 
as many parts as you have apples. Boll each one out square, and 
inclose the apple in it, slightly wetdng the edge, to make it stick. 
Bake them in a shallow pan, and eat with a dry sauce made of 
batter and sugar beaten together. 

AFPUE FBITTBRS. 

Beat three eggs very light, then stir in one tea-spoonful of salt, 
one table^spoonful of sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon and 
the juice, one pint of milk, one half pound of chopped apples, one 
half pound of sifted flour ; stir it well together, and fry in lard, 
or can be baked on a griddle as pancakes 



FUDDINOS. 167 



LKBfON DUMPI1NCN9. 

}SxK witli ten ounces of fine bread crumbs, half a pound of beef 
■ust, chopped fine, d large table-spoonful of flour, the grated -rinds 
of two small lemons, or one ver}* large one, four ounces of pound- 
ad sugar, or if wished very sweet, more ; three large or four small 
eggs beaten and strained. Divide these into four equal pord'iut 
tie ia well-floured cloths, and boil an hour. 



\ 



PUDDING SAUCES. 



MAPLB SUGAR SAUCB. 



Take half maple sugar and half light brown sugar, boil 
together with a little jwater, darify the syrup with an egg, strain it 
and melt a small piece of butter in it. All maple sugar, or all 
common sugar can be used. It is very good on puddings. 



GHSBBT SAUCaB. 

Take ripe cherries, mash them with the meat of the pits in their 
own juice until tender, pulp through a sieve all that will pass, add 
wine and sugar, and spice if desired, and boil until it is of the oon- 
sistency of thick cream. 

HABD SAUOB. 

This is made simply by stirring together to a light cream two 
cups of pounded loaf sugar to half of a large cup of sweet butter. 
It may be flayored according to taste. For cream and plain bat- 
ter pudding it may be thinned with a few spoonsful of boiling wa- 
ter and flavored with vanilla. Nutmeg is the best flavor for apple 
puddings. For rice puddings a little lemon juice or wine may be 
added. 

SWEBT LIQUID 8AUGB. 

One table-spoon of flour mixed smooth with cold water, a innoh 
of salt, piece of butter the size of a hickory -nut, half a cup of sugar* 
and a little maple or other sjrrup. Stir into this mixture hot w»> 
ter enough to make a pint bowl of sauce ; boil all up, and grate a 
lastly a little nutmeg. 

V 

AK KXCBLUOn' PUDDmO SAUOB. 

Beat up, as for hard sauce, white sugar with butter, until 



PUDDING 8AU0ES. 



169 



light, in 13ie proportion of half a onp of hntter to one of fogar; 
flaror with essence of lemon or bitter almQnds. fifteen minntes 
1)ef6re serving, set the bowl in a pan of hot watet on the range, 
and stir it till hot It will raise in a white foam to tbe top of 
thebowL 

WnVB.SAUCB. 

Take half a enp of bntter and two caps of sngar, beat them to> 
gether and mix in slowly a onp of wine : melt all OTer steam bat 
do not stir it while melting. 

BRANDT SAUCB. 

This ean be made the same as wine sauce, or as follows : Heat 
oyer steam in a covered saucepan half a pint of brandy, beat two 
eggSy and beat together to a cream two cups of sugar, and half a 
large oup of butter; stir the eggs into it, add also the brandy, 
mixing quickly and thoroughly. Keep it in hot water until 
needed. 

BOSB HIP 8AU0B. 

Take noae hips, open them and take out the seeds, soak 
them and boil them to a paste, pulp them through a sieve and 
stir them in boiling wine with suffldent sugar, until of the oon- 
tAsbeokoy of thick cream. 

LEMON BBANDT. 

This is used for flavoring sweet dishes. F£Q a wide-neoked bot- 
tle with very thin rinds of fresh lemons, cover with good brandy, 
and after two or three weeks strain off the spirit and cork it fox 
use. A fbw apricot kernels are sometimes blanched and added 
with the lemon peel to give a good flavot; 



DESSERT DESHBS. 



CRTBAM FCJFF8. 

For MOa : a pint of boiling water ; melt in it half a poond d 
lard, and stir, while boiling, into this, three-quarters of a pound 
of flour. Boil until a thick paste is formed. The best way to boil 
it, 18 to set one kettle in another, or a pail in a kettle of boih'ng 
water with the ingredients m the pail, as in boiling a custard. When 
thick, take from the fire, and when cool add ten eggs, and a little 
salt. Mix thoroughly, and bake in a quick oven for twenty-fiye 
minutes ; oven about as hot as for pies. This makes five dozen 
cakes. Drop with a spoon, on buttered dns, some distance apart. 
When cool open carefully with a knife, and fill with mock cream, 
which is made as follows : 

One quart of milk, four eggs, three-quarters of a pound of white 
sugar, five ounces of flour, extract of yanilla to taste. Make a 
smooth paste of flour, in some of the cold milk ; put m a kettle of 
boiling water with all the milk ; when thickened a little, add the 
eggs well beaten with the sugar. When creamy it is done. Take 
from the fire, and add a little extract of vaniUa. Do not use until 
cold. 

This is the only receipt for making cream pufib that we have 
used with success. But this neyer fails, if the directions are 
followed; and when done they are nice enough to set before 
king. 

PAflTDBS. 

Bub A quarter of a pound of lard into two pounds of floor ; 
beat the whites of two eggs light, and mix in two half-pints of 
water; wet the flour, leaving out some to work the crust with; 
take one pound of butter ; roll out the crust four times, each timo 
putting in with a knife a quarter of the butter ; use flour freely, whea 



DB88BBT DI8BXS. 171 

rollmg out ; cat it round, lay in your preserve or apple, which must 
be dry ; turn over the paste, to join a half circle ; nip the edgp 
with the thumb and finger, to' confine the preserve ; dip the hand 
in water, pass it lightly over the paste, then sift sugar thick upon 
Ibem, and bake in a quick oven. 

■R 

CUSTARD. 

Use about four eggs to a pint of new rich milk. Fhnror the milk 
.y putting six young laurel leaves, or grated lemon peel into it, 
before beginning to make the cuntard. and leaving them in until it 
is done ; sweeten the milk with an ounce or more of sugar accord- 
ing to taste. Beat up the eggs thoroughly with sugar and add the 
milk to it boiling hot. Place all in the saucepan, and stir it over a 
slow fire until it begins to thicken. Then remove it from the fire 
and continue stirring it until it is of exactly the right thickness 
Tom it out immediately and keep stirring it until it is cool. 

BOnJSD CUSTABD. 

Put one quart of milk over the fire ; when it steams up, add the 
yolks of nine eggs and four table-spoons of sugar, well beaten 
together. Stir the mixture well till it thickens. Remove it from 
the fire, and set away to cool. Add flavor and salt to taste. To 
make it extra nice, beat up the whites of the eggs with some ex- 
tract of lemon and sufiicient powdered sugar to make it stiff. Di- 
Tide it over the custard cups. 

AFPLB CHARLOTTE. 

Make a nice syrup ; cut up your apples very fine, and boil them 
in the syrup with a peel of a lemon, till perfectly transparent ; 
when done, put it into a large tumbler, or a mould, and the next 
day it will be solid ; turn it into a glass dish and pour 3ver it a 
rich soft custard ; if you choose, put a whip and some bits of cur- 
nukt jelly on the top. 

CHOCOLATE KISSES. 

Oae pound of sugar, two ounces of chocolate, pounded toget hoi 
and finely sifted ; then mix, with the whites of eggs, well beaten 
to A froth. Drop this on buttered paper, and bake slowly. 



172 ' BWMnBBT BISBSfl. 



LBKON SFONGS. 

Soak half an oanoe of gelatine in a pint of water for an liov, 
then add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the rind and juice of 
a lai^ lemol^^jml in a pan and simmer on the fire until the ge- 
latine is dissolve^^ strain it into a large pitcher, let it remain iint3 
it is quite a jelly, when the white of an egg must be added, and 
the whole whisked thoroughly well for an hour ; put into mouldf 
preyioiuly rinsed in cold water. When turned out it should look 
like snow 

OHOOOIATB CREAM 0178TABD8. 

Scrape quarter of a pound of the best chocolate, pour on it a 
tearcupful of boiling water and let it stand by the fire until entire- 
ly dissolved. Beat six or eight eggs light, leaving out the whites 
of one or two ; stir them by degrees into a quart of sweet milk 
alternately with the chocolate, and three table-spoonsful of white 
sugar. Put the mixture into cups, and bake ten minutes. 

APPLE CI78TABD. 

Select half a dozen sour apples, peel and core them, and cook 
them in half a tea-cup of water. When they become a little ten- 
der, take them out, place them in the pudding dish, sugar them 
and pour over them a mixture of six or eight eggs, well-beaten 
with four spoonsfiil of sugar and three pints of milk. Bake them 
for about half an hour. 

BASPBXBBT CUSTABD. 

Take three gills of raspberry juice, and dissolve in it a pound of 
white sugar, mix it with a pint of boiling cream, stir until quite 
thick, and serve in custard glasses. 

BICE CU8TARD8. 

In a pint and a half of sweet milk, boil two ounces of ground 
rioe ; mix with it four ounces of sugar, four ounces of cream, ao 
ounoe of grated cocoanut, ard bake in a mild oven. 



DBSBBBT OI8HBS. 173 



8TRAWBBBBT, OB AFFLB 80UFFLB. 

Stew the apples with a little lemon p^el ; sweeten them, and \aj 
them pretty high round the inside of a dish. Make a custard of 
Hie yolks of two eggs, a little cinnamon, sugar and milk. Let it 
tincken over a slow fire, but not boil ; when ready, pour it in the 
inside of the apple. Beat the whites of the eggs to a light froth, 
and cover the whole ; throw over it a quantity of pounded sugar, 
and brown it of a fine brown. Any fruit made of a proper con- 
sistency will do for the walls. Strawberries wten ripe, are delicious. 

SWEET SOUFFLE. 

Take a pint of milk and as much flour as will come to a thick 
paste, oyer the stove ; keep stirring it all the jime ; add six yolks 
of eggs and a pinch of salt, as much sugar as you like. Beat six 
whites of eggs to a froth ; stir them altogether. Put it into a quick 
oven a quarter of an hour before it is wanted. Glaze it with 
white sugar, and send quickly to table. It may be made with 
ground rice. The rind of a lemon, grated, or lemon juice, gives it 

nice flavor. 

SUFBBIOR OMELETTE SOUFFLE. 

Twelve eggs, four heaping table-spoonsful of sugar, six of 
flour, one quart of milk. BoJ the milk, stir the yolks of eggs, 
sugar, and flour together, add them to the milk, and let it stand 
hot but not boil. One hour before it is to be eaten, beat the 
whites to a stiff froth, stir them into the mixture and bake in a 
quick oven. Flavor to taste. 

ORANGE CREAM. 

Pare and squeeze two oranges on a cup of finely powdered 
sugar, with half a cup of water. Add four well beaten eggs and 
beat all together some time. Strain the whole through flannel in- 
to a saucepan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way until 
thick and scalding hot, not boiling, or it will curdle. If lumps of 
sugar ate rubbed on the oranges before they are pared, the flavor 
may be extracted : or they may be grated. Serve as custarl ui 
jell}' glasses. 



174 DBBaSBT DISHES 



Take a pmt of thick cream ; the yolks of two eggs well-beaten ; 
a cup of white sugar, and the rind of a lemon cut thin ; boil it 
bp ; then stir it until almost cold ; put the juice of a lejmon in a 
dish and pour the cream upon it stirring well until cold. Serre 
in a largo glass dish, or in custard cups, either alone or with sweet- 
seats. 

TANILLA. GBEAM. — 1. 

Boil a stick of vanilla in a pint and a half of rich new milk, un- 
til it is highly flavored, take out the vanilla and sweeten the milk 
to taste. Beat up thoroughly the yolks of six eggs, and the white 
of one, and gradually mix in the milk, stimng them all the while. 
Then cook the cream until it is thick enough. If the vanilla be 
careiidly dried it will serve several times provided it is good. 

TANILLA CREAM. — 2, 

Make a jelly of isinglass with the proportion of one ounce to a 
pint of water. Get a strong flavor of the vanilla in a little milk, 
with sugar enough to sweeten one quart to taste ; mix the isinglass 
jelly, the flavored milk, and one pint of good cream, and pour 
them iuto a mould to set. The isinglass jelly should be made in 
time to get cold before it is wanted for the cream, in case there 
should be any sediment to cut from it. 

ITAIIAX CREAM. 

Take one pint of cream, and half pint of milk ; make it hot, 
sweetening it ta taste, and flavoring it with lemon peel. Beat up 
the yolks of eight eggs ; beat up all together, and set it over a 
slow fire to thicken. Have ready an ounce of isinglass, melted 
and strained, which add to the cream ; whip it well, and pour it 
into the mould. 

TEA CREAM. 

Boil two drachms or more of green tea in a quart of milk, afl»r 
several minutes strain it, add the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, 
quarter of a pound of powered sugar ; boil it to reduce it to OM 
half, strain it again and nerve when cold. 



9BflSXBT DISHXS. 176 



BOCK GBSAM. 

BoQ A teasmpfbl of good rice in sweet milk till soft, sweetai h 
irith powdered loaf sugar, and pile it up high on a dish. Lay on 
it, here and there, square pieces of currant jelly, or any kind of 
preserved fruits ; beat up very stiff the whites of four or five eggs, 
and a little powdered sugar, flavored with orange flower water or 
▼anilla^ then add to it a tea-spoonful of cream, and drop it over 
the rice, giving it the appearance of a rock of snow. 

CHABIiOTTB BUSSS.— 1. 

Make first a pint of custard — ^two eggs to the pint of milk^ 
then dissolve a box of gelatine in a pint of water, and let it 
boil as in making jelly. Strain each into the same vessel — ^a tin 
pan is the best — ^and stir it gently all the while, until it gets cold. 
In the meantime, take a quart of cream, season with vanilla, 
sweeten^with a pound of sugar and chum it to a froth. Skim the 
froth and stir it into the mixture as soon as it begins to thicken. 

CHABLOTTB BUSSB. — 2. 

Boil one onnoe of gelatine in two tumblers of milk, and boil 
Wd. Beat the whites and yolks separately of six eggs, adding to 
the yolks half a pound of loaf sugar, and stir them into the boil- 
ing milk long enough for them to thicken like a rich custard ; then 
sth* in the whites, beaten to a stiff fix>th. Season with vanilla. 
Whip a pint of rich cream to a stiff fix)th, and stb into the cus- 
tard. When cold, arrange your cake in the moold and pour in the 
mixture. Set it on ice. 

EUOJBNIB BUSSB. 

Whip A pint of cream to a sponge froth. Pound half a stick of 
vanilla vrith sufiicient sugar to sweeten it ; melt half an ounce of 
isinglass and add all together to the cream. Flums and strawber* 
ries, or other firuit are then laid round a plain mould, the vaniUa 
tntan poured into the middle, and when cold the whole turned out 

MBBIKGUBS. 

Beat the whites of fiye eggs to a strong froth, mix m by degrewi 



176 DSBSBBT DISHES. 

a table •apoon and a half of sifted sugar, then drop the mixture 
with a spoon on floured or sugared writing paper, put them into m 
Tory cool OTen and let them remain until the outside is firm to the 
toach ; when cold scrape out any remaining moist parti from tlie 
imide fill them with whipped and flavored cream or with preserve^ 
■nd join two together putting the flat sides upon each otiier. 

ujcr STomB^s bread mbbingue. 

To A pint of nice, fine bread crumbs put a quart of sweet miik, 
one cup of brown sugar, the yolks of four eggs beaten, the grated 
rind of a lemon, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. Bake 
until stiff, then take it out and pour over it the whites of the eggs, 
beaten to a froth, with a tea-cup of powdered sugar and the juice 
of the lemon. Return to the oven, brown it lighdy, and you will 
have a delicious '* company," pudding, which may be eaten cold, 
with or without fruit or cream. 

ALMOND BLAKG MANOB. 

Break an ounce of isinglass in small pieces, wash well, pour oo 
a pint of boiling water ; the next morning add a quart of milk ; 
boil till the isinglass is dissolved, and strain. Put in two ounces 
of blanched almonds powdered; sweeten with loaf sugar, turn 
into a mould, and stick thin slips of almonds all over it. Dress it 
with whipped cream. 

TAPIOCA BLANC MANGB. 

In A pint of milk soak half a pound of tapioca for an hour. 
Boil till tender, sweeten, and pour it into a mould. When cold 
tnm it out, serve it in a dish with jam round it and a littie cream. 
or flavored with lemon or bitter almond without jam or cream. 

ABBOWBOOT BLANC MANGB. 

Mix three well filled up table-spoonsful of arrowroot with a littk 
mUk. Boil one pint and a half of rich, new milk, sweeten and 
flavor to taste ; pour it on the arrowroot, mixing them well, and 
stir the mixture over a slow fire until it is thoroughly cooked and 
thickened, taking care that it does not bum. Pour it into a jelly 
shape, and do not turn it out until the next day. 



177 



BICB FXX>I7B BLAKO lCAKCQ|i 

Boil one quart of milk, season it to your taste with sugar and 
rose-water, take a table-spoonful of the rice flour, mix it yory 
smooth with cold milk ; add this to the other milk while it is boil- 
ing, stirring it well. Let all boil together about fifteen minutes, 
ftining it ociasionaUy ; then pour it into moulds, and put it by t« 
eod. 

WHOLE BICB BLANO MAKGB. 

Put four ounces of whole rice in one quart of sweet milk. Boil 
it slowly for a long time, and flavor with lemon peel, cinnamon , 
and sweeten to taste. Put it into a mould, tie it down dose, and 
boil half an hour in a saucepan of water, taking care that the wa- 
ter does not get into the mould. When cold, turn it out of the 
mould on to a dish ; place any kind of jam you like around it, and 
serre wilJi custards or cream. 

GBOUND BICB BLANO IfAKGB. 

Put half a pound of ground rice into two quarts of new milk, 
with a little cinnamon and lemon peel, and boil all together till 
quite thick, stirring it well. When it is thoroughly boiled, take 
out the cinnamon and lemon peel, and pour into a wetted mould ; 
when quite cold, turn out of the mould, pour some fruit syrup 
round it in the dish. Serve with cream and sugar. 

BSD BOBIN. 

Put a pint of water into a stewpan, throw in one pound of lump 
sugar, and boil till it becomes thick, then add two pounds of tart 
apples peeled and cored, and the rind of a lemon cut thin, boil all 
together till it is quite stiff; stir it often. Pour it into a mould, 
and when cold turn out. Serve with a custard, or it is very good 
without. 

LOTB APPLES. 

Make some blanc mange of maizena, in the proportion of foui 
table-spoonsfid of maizena, to two eggs and a quart of milk 
While stUl warm, pour it into semi-drcular moulds, the nwe of 

8* 



178 DB8SBBT DISHXS. 

half an egg, taking care first to dip the moulds in cold water, to 
prevent sticking. When cold, turn out, stick the ludves together 
with a little gum and sugar water, so as to form shining balls. 
With a little brush and extract of cochineal then tinge one side 
carefully, and arrange on a dish, in a pyramid, with apple, quince, 
or currant jelly in the interstice, and white sugar sifted over the 
«rhole Nicely managed, this makes a very pretty and inexpeii!- 
live dish. 

MABKXD T4BT0. 

Line small tart-pans with puff-paste, and place in each half an 
apple which has been boiled tender, in a rich syrup. Bake a light 
brown and, when done, dilute quince jelly, or jam, with a little of 
the syrup, and mask the apple with a spoonfiil of it. Sift over 
white sugar. 

TBUIT TAKT8. 

Line your pans as for masked tarts ; fill with any kind of jelly, 
preserve, or jam, and cover with a lattice of pastry. Glaze with 
white of egg, bake a light brown, and sift over powdered sugar. 

AFPLB TABT. 

Scald eight or ten large apples ; let them stand till they are cold, 
and th<%n take off the skins. Beat the pulp as fine as possible, 
with a spoon ; then mix the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of 
four; beat all together very fine, put in some grated nutmeg, 
and sweeten to your taste. Melt some good fi^sh butter, and beat 
it till it is of the consistency of fine thick cream ; then make a 
puff-paste, and cover a tin palty-pan with it ; pour in the ingredi- 
ents, but do not cover it with the paste. When it has baked a 
quarter of an hour, slip it out of the patty-pan, on a dish, • and 
itrew over it some sugar, finely beaten. 

▲FFLB BfBRINGtTB. — 1. 

Prepare six large, tart apples, as for sauce. While hot, put in 
piece of butter the size of an egg. When cold, add a cup of fine 
cracker crumbs, the yolks of three eggs well beaten, a cup of sweet 
milk or cream, a little salt, iind nutmeg and sugar to taste. Bake 



DB81SBBT DISHXt. 179 

in a lai^ plate, with an tmder crust of rich paste and a rim of 
puff paste. When done, take the whites of the eggs, half a krge 
(ea-cup of white sugar, and a few drops of essence of lemon ; beat 
Id a stiff froth, pour oyer, and put back in* the oyen to browo 

AFFLB M]ERIN0IJ]ES.-~2. 

Sooop out the core from six apples, and fill them with qnioe 
carmalade ; stew them until tender in half a pint of water, with 
tome sugar, some lemon-peel, and a little more marmalade. Lay 
cne apples in a dish with the liquor. Beat up to a strong froth the 
whites of four eggs, flavoring them with orange flower water and 
sugai- to taste. Cover the apples with this whip, and bake them half 
an hour. 

AFFLB SNOW. 

Peel, core, and quarter a dozen Spitzenberg apples, and stew 
them gently, with a cup of water, white sugar sufficient to sweeten, 
and a little cinnamon ; when reduced nearly to a pulp, turn into a 
dish. Make a soft custard of a quart of milk, the yolks of four 
eggs* ft IMe sugar, and extract of lemon ; when it is cold, lay it 
over the apples, and whip up the whites of the eggs with a quaiv 
ter of a pound of powdered sugar, and heap lightly on the top. 

AFFLB MARMALA1>B. 

Pare twenty pounds of pippin apples, make a . syrup of ten 
pounds of sugar, boil the apples sufficiently in it to mash, take 
them out, beat them fine, put them back, cut six oranges into small 
pieces, and boil all together, stirring it till done. 

BAKED AFFLES. 

There is nothing better for a simple ordinary dessert than plain 
baked apples. Wash the apples, and place them whole without 
peeling in the baking dish sprinkled with sugar, with a little water 
added for sauce and bake until quite soft. A good way is to cat 
out the stem, leaving a little cavity ; fill this with sugar and place 
three layers in the dish, the stem end up. Sprinkle over some 
more sugar, add a little water and put a slice of lemon over each 



180 DBSgBBT DI8HB0. 

apple in the top layer ; first, alightlj squeezing the jnioe over die 
apples. Water enough may be used to supply a sauce, although 
they arv delicious with cream if that can be obtained. Sweet ap- 
pies are usually much preferred for baking instead of tart ones, 
though this is in some degree a matter of taste. 

8TEW1ED APPIiBS. 

Make a dear syrup of half a pound of sugar to one pint of wa- 
ter. Skim it; peel and core the apples without injuring the 
shape. Let them be in cold water till the syrup is ready, to which 
add the juice of a lemon and the peel cut very fine. Quarters of 
oranges may be boiled in the syrup instead of apples. 

AFFLB CBBAM. 

Boil rich, well-flavored apples till soft, rub the pulp through a 
hair sieve, mix in sugar ; when cold stir in sweet cream and serve 
cold. 

DBDED APFLRS 8TBWBD. 

Wash the pieces, soak several hours, boil in sufilcient watei to 
cover them, over a slow fire ; when nearly done add sugar. They 
are better flavored with a few dried quinces or peaches. Orange 
peel or lemon is excellent for flavor. 

STEWED piFFnrs. 

Pare and quarter golden pippins, remove the core, stew them 
over a slow fire with sufficient sugar to sweeten, the juice and 
rind of a lemon and a little water, let them cook till very tender. 

aXNGBR AFFLBS. 

Take Newtown pppins, pare, core, and throw them into cold wa* 
ter to preserve their color. Take a pint of water, and half a 
pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. Place it on the fire in a 
stew pan and bring it to a boil before the finiit is put in. Now 
take die apples out of the cold water and put them in the syrup ; 
and add one ounce and three quarters of cleaned ginger, for each 
pound of firuit. Let them boil till they become dear, an hour or 
^ess If not used immediately, put thetn in a jar closely covered 
down and set in a cool, dry place. They will keep some time. 



DBMXBT DlSmW. 141 



VLOATISrO ISLAND OF AFFLB8. 



Bake or acsld eight or nine large apples ; when cold, pare them 
and pulp them through a sieye. Beat this pulp with sugar, and 
add to the white? of four or five eggs previously beaten, with a 
mall quantity of rose water, or essence of lemon ; mix this into 
tiie pulp a little at a time, and beat it until quite light. Ktvp H 
«p on a dish with Savoy cakes, and jelly under, and around it 

AFFLB SNOW BALLS. ^ 

Take six apples pare and quarter them and cut out the cores 
eompletely. Place the quarters together in the shape of the ap- 
ple before, and in the cavity made by removing the core put a 
dove and a slice of lemon peel. Have six smidl pudding-cloths 
at hand, and half pound of rice, and cover the apples severally, 
one after the other in an upright position, with rice, tying them up 
tight. Then place them in a large saucepan of scalding water, 
and let them boil for one whole hour. On taking them up, open 
the tops, and intermix with the fruit a little grated nutmeg, with 
butter and sugar to your taste. 

* COMPOTE OF AFPLBS. 

Boil a sauce pan of clarified sugar, half sugar and half water on 
the fire ; skim it, have ready the apples pared, cut in halves, and 
cored, drop them in the syrup and let them boil very slowly. Take 
tiiem off when done, and let them cool ; if the syrup is too thin, 
give them another boO. 

NINA^S AFFLB CBBAM. 

Take two pounds of apples, pare and core them, dice ^m i^to 
a pan, add obe pound of 'loaf sugar, the juice of three lemons, and 
die grated rind of one. Let these boil about two hours. Turn it 
in the mould and serve it with boiled custard, or cream. 

MOTHER^S •• SUBPIUSB." 

Take a square loaf of baker^s breaa, rat into thin slices, (cmsl 
jnd all,) and butter them. Peel, core, and cut up sufficient of 
nice baking apples in propR>rtion. Take a pie dish, line it with 



lS2 1XB88KBT DISHBS. 

bread and butter. Next make a layer of applet at the bottom, tliea 
of sugar, then of bread and so on, till the dish is filled. Bak« 
until the apple is perfectly soft, then before serving, turn it oaf 
into a dish. It ought to keep its shape, and eat almost like a 
nreetmeats all the ingredients being thoroughly blended in baking^ 

APPLE CHEBSK. 

Take equal weights of apple and sugar; boil the sugar in water, 
lake off the scum as it rises, and when it is clear, put in the apples 
with some lemon juice and peel, and boil until it is all of a proper 
thickness. 

A cream fbr this cheese may be made by putting to a pint of 
cream or new milk, the yolks of two eggs, a stick of cinnamon, a 
spoonful of rose water, and the peel of a lemon ; let it quite boil, 
and when it is cool, sweeten it to taste, and pour it oyer or around 
the cheese. 

AARATOGA APPLE BAUGB. 

Take two pounds of apples, boil them with as little water as 
possible, and make them into apple sauce, then add a pound and a 
naif of sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; boil all together till quite 
firm, and put it into a mould. Garnish it with almonds stuck over 
it. It will keep for many months, if allowed to remain in the 
mould. 

BAKED FBABS. 

Take any kind of pears, wash them, and place them whole and 
without peeling, in the baking tin, with merely the water that will 
hang on them after washing. Sprinkle sugar oV^r them, and bake 
until quite soft. A syrup will be found in the bottom of the dish, 
which may be poured over them. They are better and mere 
wholesome than any complicated pastry. 

SCALDED PEABS. 

Wash the pears, wnole, and without praling ; boil them in ^usl 
enough water to cover them, until they are soft, then pour in molas- 
ses, sufiident for a sauce, boil up until it is thick, and serve ths 
pears in a dish, with the sauce poured over them. 



BXSSSBT DISHBft. 188 



TO IfAKB A TRIFUB. 

.Make a boiled costard not verj thick .and let it cool. Bceak in 
pieces some Naples biscuits, some macaroons in halves, add ratifia 
cakes, cover the bottom of a dish with them, and wet with white 
irine ; pour the custard over them, and put a syllabub over it. T 
can be garnished with currant jelly, and if convenient with flowera. 

GOOSEBERBY OR APPLE TRIFLE. 

Scald the fruit, pulp it through a sieve, and add sugar to taste. 
Make a thick layer of this at the bottom of the dish. Mix a pint 
of milk, a pint of cream, and the yolks of two eggs, scald it over 
the fire, stirring it well ; add a small quantity of sugar, and let it 
get cold. Then lay it over the apples, or gooseberries, with a 
spoon, and put on the whole a whip made the day before. If yoa 
uae apples, add the rind of a lemon grated. 

BHtJBARB TART. 

Pare off the thin skin, and cut it in small lengths, stew them an 
nour very slowly ; to one pint of rhubarb add, while simmering, 
a syrup of sugar, and a little water ; when done let it cool, then 
fliake it into tarts. 

IGINO FOB TABTS. 

Beat the white of an egg with a quarter of a pound of powder- 
ed sugar, and flavor with two spoonsful of almond, or lemon ex- 
tract, stir them together one way till the mixture is quite thick, and 
then lay it on the tarts with a feather or a bunch of feathers, then 
let the tarts stand in a mild oven until hard, but not long enough 
to become discolored. 

COMPOTE OF BHUBABB. 

Take a pound of the stalks after they are pared, and cut them 
m short lengths, have ready a quarter of a pint of water boiled 
gently for ten minutes, with five ounces of good lump sugar, or six 
•onces if the fruit is very tart ; put it in and let it simmer jfitf 
about ten minutes. 



184 BMMOBT 



OOMFOTB OF RKD CURR^Hn. 

Make a s}Tap of a pint of water and five or aix onnoes of Innq^ 
•agar, boiled ten minutes. Simmer a pint of cnrranta, freed from 
tiie Btalks, from five to seven minutes. They are an excellent ao> 
oompaniment to a pudding of batter, custard, bread or rice, or to 
boiled rice. A compote of raspberries maj be made in thia wmjj 
cr raspberries may be mixed with the cuirants. 

OOMFOTB OF GBSEN CUBRAMT8. 

Make a syrup of half a pint of spring water and five ounces of 
himp sugar boiled together ten minutes. Strip a pint of green 
ennants from the stalks, and simmer them in tiie synqt five nun- 



OOMFOTB OF OBXSN GOOSBBSBBDES. 

Make a syrup of half a pint of water, and five ounces of good 
lump sugar broken fine, boiled together gently for ten minutes, and 
skmimed. Simmer gently in this syrup for eight or ten minutes a 
pint of gooseberries freed firom tops and stalks and well washed 
and drained ; these c<Hnpotes will only keep good two or three days ; 
transparency of the firuit will be increased by using more sugar in 
the syrup. 

COHFOTB OF FBA0HB8. 

Pare them, and remove the stone, boil gently until tender, take 
ihem off and put them in cold water. Then put them in clarified 
sugar, add a little boiling water, set them again over the fire, and 
when done enough, pour them out into dishes. 

OHBBBT CHBBSB. 

Take the stones from twelve pounds of cherries, break the stones 
of part of the cherries and blanch the kernels ; take ttese with the 
fruit and diree pounds of loaf sugar, put into a kettle, and boil all 
gently till the jam becomes quite clear ; pour into small and rather 
shallow pots, and keep in a dry place. 



BJiSfiBBT BIAflBS. 185 



GOOSEBERRY FOOL. 

Put into a deep dish some green gooseberries, a quart or morft 
if desired, afier bakijag them in the oven until quite soft, pulp 
them through a colander and add pounded sugar to taste. When 
't is cold, mix in a gill of cream to each quart of bnrries. and serve 
w a ghtss dish. 

PINRAPPUS FKITTBRS. 

Take quarter of a pound of fine flour, one and a half pints of 
new milk, the yolks of four fresh eggs, and make the same into a 
light battter, adding the whites of two eggs, first beaten into a 
IFght froth. Bruise half a dozen slices of a round ripe pineapple 
into a pulp and stir it \vell up with the batter, adding at the same 
time a little nutmeg and cinnamon grated fine. Put the pan over 
a brisk fire, and ladle out the batter into the pan as it may be re- 
quired, according to the size of the fritters. Fry them in fresh 
butter turning them only once, when they will assume a brown, 
crisp complexion. When quite done remove them into a dish, 
sprinkling over them a dessert-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar. 
Apple and currant firitters can be prepared after a like manner. 
The cinnamon can be dispensed with if objected to. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Take three oranges, or more if desired, peel them, and pick off 
the white part - without breaking the thin inner skin ; then tear 
them into the natural divisions of the orange ; each one will make 
from seven to eight pieces. Dip each into a light batter; fry 
them in hot fiit, not too brown. Serve as soon as convenient with 
lifted sugar over them. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

Soak the prunes in cold water, if not very dry, for one hour 
but if they are old a longer time is necessary. Stew them, closely 
covered with a thin syrup, with lemon peel chopped finely, for three 
hours. 

GOOD COBiMOH PRESERVE. 

Boil together in equal or unequal portions any kinda of ear]j 



186 DSSSSBT MSKXS. 

frnit until thej can be presaed tfarougb a sieve, weigh the pulp and 
and boil it orer a brisk fire half an hour, add half a pound of sugai 
jRnr each pound of fruit, again boil it quickly, stirring and skim- 
nmg. from fifteen to twenty minutes ; cherries if used, should be 
■feewed tender apart, as they require a longer time than other ttui- 
■MT frnits. 

A mCB AND CHKAP DESSERT. 

Cook a teacup of rice very thoroughly, putting in water first, 
afterwards milk, and a little salt. When it is done to a jelly, add 
a table-spoonftil of currantrjelly, or half a teacup of any fruit- 
juice, that is of a bright color ; and put it over the fire a few min- 
utes. Turn it into a mould, to cool; and eat with sweetened 
cream, or cream and dry white sugar. 

ANOTHKl{. 

Tie a cup and a half of rice, which has been well washed, in a 
bag with a few raisins. Allow plenty of room to swell, and boil 
an hour or more. Turn out, and pour over it some boilling syrup, 
in which a small piece of butter has been melted. 

LOPPBRED MILK. 

A delicious summer dessert consists simply of milk which has 
thickened, take it out quivering, like custard, and eat with cream 
and white sugar. It must not be allowed to wheif, as it is then not 
loppered but sour milk. It is a favorite dish in Grermany. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

It is not necessary to urge upon any one the eating of this de- 
licious fruit; everybody, man, woman, and child, anticipates the 
season with pleasure. But we should like to urge upon all who 
possess a few feet of ground the wisdom of cultivating a ** straw- 
berry patch.^ So great a gift, so profusely bestowed in return for 
a little labor, ought to be shared by the poorest. We hope the 
time will come when fruit will be so plentiful and so cheap that it 
can be picked by the weary, thirsty traveller on the roadside 
Why should not apple-trees, cherry-trees, plum-trees, peach-trees, 
4nd pear-trees be planted along the unsightly fences, hiding them. 



]>MB]BBlr DISttSB. 187 

And supplying God^s good gifts, without mcney or price, to those 
who need them P The man who shall first endow his farm in thii 
way will, at small cost, become a public benefactor, and establish 
a claim to immortality. But to return to strawberries : this id so 
perfect a fruit, so exquisite in flavor, so excellent in quality, that 
cooking, or manipulation of any kind, rather impairs than improres 
it A little white sugar and cream is the only addition that can 
be made, and even this is a concession to our unnaturally sweeten- 
ed and perverted palates, rather than to the necessities of the ca<$e. 
As for strawberry pie, strawberry dumpling, strawberry jiudd:ng, 
and the whole range of dishes in which strawberries are cooked. 
they should be stricken out of ever}' housekeeper's list, with a t^ t" 
gle reservation in favor of *' strawberry cake,'' in which, howr?) "r, 
the strawberries are not cooked, and which is so great a pet iv-th 
the male as well as female part of every household, that we dare 
not say a word against it, even if it was not one of our own special 
weaknesses. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTOAKB. 

Mix dough as for soda buscuit ; that is to say, one quart of sift- 
ed flour, piece of butter size of an egg, two tea-spoonsful of 
cream of tartar, one of soda, a pinch of salt, and sweet milk to 
form a soft dough. Put cream of tartar in the flour, and soda m 
dry also, and, when thoroughly mixed, roll out half an inch thick 
and bake in a shallow pan fifteen or twenty minutes ; have ready 
two quarts of fresh, fine strawberries ; split the cake, place half 
the strawberries between and cover thickly with white sugar ami 
cream ; put the other half on the top and cover in the same way ; 
send to the table immediately. This is the method of making at 
the finest city restaurants. 

FRUIT FOR DESSERT. 

Add a little water to the white of an egg, and beat it well ; dip 
the fruit in and immediately sprinkle it all over with powdered 
sugar. Then leave it for four or five hours, and serve with cus- 
tard, loppered milk, or ice corn-starch pudding. Large and fair 
bunches of red and white currants make a charming dish in this 
way. Strawberries, blackberries, cherries or raspberries, are ei* 
of tbem suitable. 



188 DXSflXBT mSHXS 



BVMMSR FRUITS MIXED. 

Take fine, fresh strawberries, white and red carranta^ and 
wldte or red strawberries ; strip them carefully from the stalks^ 
and heap them high on a dessert dish in layers, strewing each lay- 
er with sifted sugar. Before serving lay thick cream entirely ovei 
the fruit, and gently stir them with a spoon when served. Some 
use instead of cream two wine-glasses full of Sherry, Madeira o« 
any other good white wine. Either currants or strawberries hj 
themselves, are good, prepared in this way. 

RHUBARB, OR PIB PLAKT. 

This is one of the greatest of spring luxuries, though the quaa- 
* tity of sugar required to be used with it renders it rather expen- 
sive. Remove the stringy part and cut up into small slices either 
for stewing or pies, no spice is required, but sugar may be put in 
as long as your conscience will let you, and a handful afterwards. 

QUINCES FOR THE TABLE. 

Bake them ; remoTe the skin, slice them and serve with cream 
and sugar. 

APPLE PIQUE. 

Peel and stew some apples, but do not let them break. Place 
them in a glass dish half full of syrup, and put a piece of currant 
jelly on the top of each apple. 

TO^LA.TOES. 

These can be eaten raw, when ripe, with salt, pepper and vine- 
gar or sugar. By pouring boiling water on tliem, the skin can be 
taken off, then cut them in pieces and cover them with powdered 
•agar. 

A DESSERT OF CIIK8TXUTS 

Boil Spanish chestnuts very soft and pulp tliem through a sieve. 
Beat the whites of eggs with pounded white sugar, to a thick froth 
pile the chesnuts in a dish, and cover tliickly with the whip, jusl 
before stirring. 



BBSfiSBT DISHSft. 189 



UEMON PASTE TO KBKP. 

To one pound of batter, put one pound of loaf sugar, six egy»i 
(leaving out the wbitea of two,) the rind grated, and the juice of 
tlunee lemons. Put all in a pan, and let simmer till the sugar is 
dissoWed, and it thickens to the consistency of honey. Put it into 
pot6, and close them air tight. 

UBMON FLAVOR. 

When lemons are plenty procure a quantity, cut them into thin 
slices, and lay them on the plates to dry in the oven ; when drr 
put them into a tight bag or dose vessel, in the store room, wi*«ra 
they are both handy and agreeable for almost anything. 

TINCTURB OF LEMON OR ORANOB FBBL. 

A fine flavor for cake, sauces, and the like, may be easily, and 
cheaply obtained, by taking a thin rind off any lemons, or oranges, 
that may be used, and putting it into a bottle half full of brandy, 
or proof spirit. A few weeks will suffice to impregnate it very 
strongly with the flavor. 

COUNTRY ICE CREAM. 

Any family having ice and milk, can make ice cream without a 
freezer as follows: Scald two quarts of fresh milk, — if a little 
crv<m be added all the better, — stirring in three table-spoonsful of 
com starch or arrow root, to give it body. These may be omitted 
if net at hand. Stir well to keep from burning. Beat up four to 
eight eggs, according to convenience, and pour the scalding milk 
on the eggs, stirring well. When cold add sugar and essence oi 
lemon, or extract of vanilla, to suit the taste, and a very little salt. 
Pour the cold contents into a deep tin pail, or can, holding about 
three quarts; put on the cover, and set in an ordinary water pail. 
Pound up ice to the size of hens^ eggs and less, some, of courtte, 
will be quite fine; pack it around the tin can, mixing in about one 
pint of either medium or fine salt ; pack this till it reaches nearly 
to the top of the can containing the mixture to be frozen, but be 
careful none enters it. Now mcve t)ic tin can or pail around by 
means of its bail, lifting the cover occasionally to scrape off tb* 



190 DMsssit* i>unt4. 

frozen cream on the inside, so that other portions may oome itt 
eontact with the freezing surface. From fifteen to twent; minutei 
will be sufficient, and the dish may be served up at once or set 
away, without removing from the wooden pail, in a cool place fai 
•ereral hours, covered with a flannel cloth. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Take two pounds of fresh strawberries, carefully picked, and 
with a wooden spoon rub them through a hair sieve, about hall 
pound of powdered sugar, and the juice of one lemon ; color with 
a few drops of prepared cochineal; cream, one pint. When the 
sugar is dissolved, ascertain that the sweetness is correct; then 
freeze. This will make a quart. When fresh strawberries are not 
in season, take strawberry jam, the juice of two lemons, cream, to 
one quart. Color, strain, and freeze. 

APPLE ICB. 

Take nice apples, grate them, make them very sweet and freeze 
them. Pears, peaches, and quinces can be done in the same way 

MOLASSES CANDY. 

Boil slowly a quart of molasses, stirring occasionally. To find 
when it is done, drop a spoonful of it into some cold water ; if it 
breaks brittle, take it off. Have some flat pans well buttered^ pour 
the candy hot into them, and set it aside to cool. When nearly 
cool, take it from the pans and stretch it for a long time until it be- 
oomes a clear light color. While boiling, it can be flavored accord 
ing to taste, or mixed with nuts or pop com. A small piece of 
alum put in will make it more brittle. 

SUGAR TAFFY. 

Dissolve three pounds of sugar in a pint of water, in which half 
a teaspoon of citric acid has been dissolved ; boil it, and remove the 
•cum. When it will crack after being dropped in cold water take 
off, and squeeze and mix in the juice of three lemons or oranges. 
Boil again until thick as before, then pour into buttered pans, in a 
thin layer. Mark it off into square blocks before it cools, so tktA 
it will break regularly. 



DSfSSRT BISBSS. 191 



LEMON DROPS. 

Bcnl clarified syrup until it will crack when dropped in water ; 
Akww it with lemon, then pour it in small drops on buttei«d paper, 
and fet aside to get cold 

CFOCOULTB UBOPS. 

Throw into a well-heated metal mortar, irom two to four ounces 
of the best quality of cake chocolate, broken small, and pound it 
with a warm pestle until it resembles a smooth paste or very thick 
batter ; then add an equal weight of sugar, in the finest powder, 
and beat them until they are thoroughly blended. Roll the mixture 
into small balls, lay them on sheets of writing paper, or upon 
dean dishes, and take them off when nearly cold. While soft, the 
tops may be encrusted with white nonpareil comfits. 

dTRUPS FOR CANDIBS. 

To a pint of cold water put two pounds of loaf-sugar, let it dis- 
•oWe, add the white of an egg and beat the mixture well. Put 
it on the fire, when it boils up take it off and remove the scum. 
Pat it on the fire again, let it boil up and throw in a few drops of 
ooM water-; take it off again and remove the scum, and so contin- 
ue until no scum rises. 

BARUET SVOAR, (foT ChUdrm,) 

Soak a quart of barley over night, in the morning boil it gently 
in more water, until it becomes a dear and rather thin jelly. Add 
to this two pounds of sugar, and the juice of a lemon, and boil 
■gain, until clear and stiff, so that when poured out in buttered 
platet or saqoers, it will set hi^rd. The white of an egg iBiprov<9l 
it. ' 



SWEET CAKES. 



POUND CAKX. 

Ii«ci six eggs to a froth, then add a pound of sugar end half a 
(*oiind i»f iMitter, heat aH well together; dissolve half a tea-spoonful 
of Hoda iii.iialf a cup of milk. Take a pound of sifted flour and 
nil) a tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar through it with your hands ; 
add the eggs, su;^ar, and butter ; stir alJ thoroughly together, flavoi 
it to your taste, and bake in a quick oven. 

SPONGK CAKE. — 1. 

Three eggs well beaten, one cup of white sugar, one cup of sifted 
Hour* a tea-apponful of cream tartar, half a tea-spoonful of 8o<la, 
both put in jcAie cup with two tea-spoonsful of sweet milk, and di.H- 
solved. Beat the cake yery thoroughly, then add a half tea-spoon- 
ful of extract of lemon. Bake in quick oven. This is good enough 
for a party, yet not expensive. 

SPONOR CAKB.— 2. 

Four, six. eight, or ten eggs, weight of eggs in powdered sufrsr 
htlf that weight in flour. Beat the yolks ten minutes, mix iht-u 
9£ll with sugar, and one tea-spoonful of essence of lemon. Hem 
whites separate, and stir in last. 

ALMOND SPONGE CAKE. 

Ten eggs, one pound of sugar, half pound of flour, a few drops 
ol lemon. When these ingredients are well beaten, add half-pound 
of sweet almonds, blanched, and pounded in a white mortar oF 
stout bowl. To blanch them — that is, skin them — pour boiling 



#ater upon tlieni. Add a little peach extract, and bake in a briik 
oren This is very rich. 

RIGE FLOUR SPONGE CAKE. 

Mako like sponge cake, except that you use three quarter»-cf a 
pound of rice flour, thirteen eggs, leaving out four whites, and add 
ft little salt. ^' 

MRS. y. S SPONGE CAKE. 

One tumbler of flour, one of fine white sugar, Qve eggs, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one half tea-spooi> soda. Beat the white? of 
the eggs to a froth, add the sugar, then the yolks, and lastly, the 
flour; flavor with lemon, and bake to cut in squares. 

A NICE TEA mSH. 

This cake is very nice cut in thin slices, and layers of canned 
peacheM, or canned strawberries laid between, sift over the whole 
powdered sugar. The salne receipt makes delicious jelly cake. 

A MAGNIFICENT CHRISTMAS CAKE. — 1. 

Two pounds of flour, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of rai- 
sins, stoned and chopped, two pounds of currants cleaned, one 
pound of citron, cut in strips, one pound of butter, ten eggs well- 
Dt^aten, four tea-spoonsful baking pow<l<Jr mixed with the Hour, a 
pint of sweet milk, lemon, nutmeg, and allspice to taste, and a 
little salt. Mix and beat thoroughly. Put in plenty of spu-a. 
Bake four or five hours, and then ice. Trim it with holly wreath, 
and branch. 

CHRISTMAS CAKE. — ^2. 

Four eggs, two cups of brown sugar, half a cup of molafstt, 
one cup and a half of shorttming, (half butter and half lard), one 
oup of milk, either &wect or sour, five cups of flour, two large 
tea-P])oonsfuI of soda, two large tea-spoonsful of grouiid clovet 
one grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of cinnamon, one f>oimd 6f 
chopped raisins, citron. A table-spoonful of brandy in. proves thiii. 
MggB not to be beaten. 



tft4 iWXXl? CAlUt*. 



FEMfE FRUIT CiXS. - 

Soak three cups of dried apples over night in cold water enong^fe 
to swell them, chop them in the morning, and pat them on the firr 
^ith three cups of molasses. Stew until soft, but not pulpy. 
When cold, mix with them three cups of flour, a cup of butter, 
three eggs, and a tea-spoon of soda. Bake in a steady oven 
This will make two good-sized pans full of splendid cake. T;ii- 
apples will cook like citron, and taste deliciously. Raisins may ^*e 
added if desired, and salt and plenty of spice-=-^lspice if liked. 

FRUIT CAKB. 

Take half a pound of fat corned pork, chop it very fine. Mix 
it with one pound of raisins chopped, five cup/^ of floar; one 
cup of molasess, two cups of sugar, two eggs, on^;cup of milk or 
wine, and one tea-spoonful of saleratus. Spice it^wtth a table- 
spoonful of cloves, one nutaneg, and half a tables<^j^nful of cin^ 
namon. This will keep all winter and is better aftei^ being kept a 
considerable time. 

A FINE BRIDB CAKE. 

Three pounds of fine flour well dried, three pounds of pounded 
sugar, three pounds of fresh -butter, six pounds of currants well 
washed and dried, two pounds of raisins chopped fine, one pound 
of sweet almonds, blanched and cut thin, one pound of citron, one 
pound of lemon peel, one pound of orange peel, quarter ounce ol 
mace powdered and sifted fine, quarter ounce of nutmeg grated,,^ 
twenty-four eggs, and half pint of fmk syrup. First work the 
butter to a cream with the hand, then beat in the sugar fpj* quartei 
of an hour. Let the whites of the eggs be beaten to a strong froth, 
then mix with the sugar and butter ; beat the yolk half an hour at 
least, and add t9tem ; next dust in the flour, beating the cake the 
whole time ; and the otiier ingredients by degrees, and keep'lwding 
antil the oven is ready ; butter the hoop, and line it also witti'lnba^ 
t?red paper before putting in the cake. It will take four hoon 
iu a moderate oven. 

The Alm(mct4cing. -^-Be&t the whites of six eggs to a strong 
beat twb'pouawof almonds (which have been pounded in a m< 




BWBBT 01.KB8. 195 

with a little rose-water ; mix the almonds and eggs lightly together, 
and add by degrees two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded. When the 
eake is done, lay this icing upon it, and put it in the oven to brown 
Bugar Icing. — Two pounds of sugar sifted, two ounces of fine 
March ; beat the whites of five eggs to a strong froth : sift in the 
fogar and starch, and beat for half an hour ; lay this on the almond 
icing, and spread smooth with a knife. If put on when the cake 
eomes out of the oven, it will be hard by the time it is cold. The 
2ake mast be kept in a dry place until wanted for use. 

CONNECTICUT EUEOTION CAKE. 

Ten pounds of flour, five pounds of shortening, equal parts but- 
ter and lard salted. Work shortening into flour very fine, no 
knobs, then add a quart of brewer^s yeast. Take enough sweet 
milk to make it a little softer than biscuit. Work it a long time, 
until it begins to grow light. If you see the butter round the dish 
•while rising do not be frightened. Let it stand and rise until it 
cracks open. While it is rising, weigh five and a half pounds of 
white sugar, break ten eggs in a large dish, work the sugar and eggs 
together ; five pounds of raisins, either seeded or chopped ; soak 
them in two gills of the best sweet cider ; two table-spoonsful of 
powdered mace, two nutmegs, the rind of two oranges, chopped 
fine. Add citron if you choose. After the cake is raised enough, 
woric in all the above ingredients, and let it stand in a warm place 
Wtd it rises again. Then bake. This makes twenty large loaves. 

INDEPENDENCE CAKE. 

Twenty pounds of flour, fifteen pounds of sugar, ten pounds of 
butter, four dozen of eggs, one quart of wine, one quart of brandy, 
one ounce of nutmegs, three ounces each of cinnamon, cloves, and 
mace, two pounds of citron, five pounds each of currants and rai- 
U and one quart of yeast. Frost it, and dress it with box aacl 
leaf. 

NEW HAYBN COMMBNCEBISNT CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, three quarters of butter, one of flour, out 
t^ of yeast, three nutmegs, two tea-apoonsfu^f cinnamon, and 
ftve eggf. Set to rise over night. In the morning add a tea-apooo 



196 IWSST CAKKPt. 

of aoda, and as much chopped raisins and chipped citron as jou 
choose, and let it stand an hour before baking. A little raspber- 
ry Tinegar or melted currant jelly will improve it. Ice it 

PLUM GAKB. 

Take two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of milk or 
Hutter-milk, one tea-spoonful of saleratus or volatile salts, a gill of 
' randy, a tea-spoonful of essence of lemon and sufficient flour to 
nake a stiff batter. Beat this well together, add half a pound of 
raisins stoned and chopped, half a pound of currants, washed and 
dried by the fire, and one quarter of citron, and bake in a brisk 
oven. 

NEW YKAK^S HICKORY-NUT CAKB. 

One pound of fiour, one pound of sugar, three quarters pound 
of butter, six eggs, two tea-spoons of cream of tartar, one of soda, 
half-cup of sweet milk. Beat the cake thoroughly, and then stir 
in a small measure of hickory-nuts, first, of course, taking them 
from the shell. Bake in a steady but not quick oven. This is a 
very fine cake. 

HUCKUSBERRY CAKE, 

One cup of sugar, one egg, piece of butter size of an egg, half 
a cup nf milk, one tea-spoonful of soda, two of cream of tartar, 
a tca-8poonful of any preferred essence, and sifled fiour to make a 
stiff batter. Put cream of tartar in the fiour, soda in the milk, 
and beat thoroughly. Add last a pint of dried huckleberries, and 
bake in a quick oven. This is cheap and good. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Stir into two quarts of fiour a pint of milk, slightly warmed* 
and a small tea-cup of yeast. Place it near the fire, where it will 
rise quickly. When perfectly light, work in with tlie hand four 
beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, two of cinnamon, a wine glaii ~ 
of currant jelly, a grated nutmeg, and some chipped citron. Stir 
a pound of sugar with three quarters of a pound of butter ; when 
white work it into cake ; add another quart of sifted fiour, and 
oeat the whole mjth the hand ten or fifteen minutes, then set it 



•WXBT CAKSt. 197 

where it will rise again. When of a spongy lightness, put it into 
buttered cake pans and let them stand fifteen or twenty mumtes 
before baking. Add if you like, a pound and a half of raisini 
just before putting the cake into pans. 

NBW YEARNS CAKX. 

Three and a quarter pounds of flour, one of butter, and a half 
>r sugar, one pint of milk, two tea-spoons of cream tartar, one tea* 
dpoon of soda, caraway seeds. 

AFFLB GAKB. 

Take one pound of white sugar, two pounds of apples pared 
and cut thin, and the rind of a large lemon; put a pint of water to 
the sugar and boil it to a syrup ; put the apples to it and hoil it 
quite thick. Put it into a mould to cool, and send it cold to table, 
with a custard or cream poured round it. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

Beat a pound of fresh butter to a cream ; take one pound and a 
quarter of sugar, and one and a quarter of currants washed and 
picked, and beat up the whites and yolks of eight eggs ; put in 
the sugar by degrees, then a pound of flour and currants ; add a 
gill of brandy, some candied orange and citron ; beat the mixture 
till very light ; and bake it in pans. 

FINE ALMOND CAKE. 

Roil a pound and quarter of finely sifted loaf sugar to a candj; 
have ready a pound of sweet almonds well blanched and pounded, 
adding a little orange-flower water while pounding to keep them 
from oiling ; put them in the sugar with the rind of two lemons 
grated very thin and as much juice as to make it of a sht^rp taste. 
Place this in glassies in the oven ; stir them often to keep them 
from candying ; when a little dry put the mixture upon paper in 
tmall cakes to harden. 

LEMON CAKE. — 1. 

Rub one tea-cup of butter and three tea-cups of powdered loaf 
sugar to a cream ; beatand stir in the yolks of four eggs, add a 



i 



IN SWSBT OAKXS. 

tea-cup oi milk, the joioe and grated peel of one lemon, and tin 
whites of ihe eggs ; then sift in foor tea-caps of prepared flosr. 
tnd bake for abont half an hoar in two long tins. It can be iced 
lo advantage. 

UEICON GAEB. — 2. 

Beat well together one egg, a small piece of butter, floor, and 
:hQ rind of a lemon grated with sufficient lump sugar to sweeten 
.t. Roll them very thin, cut them into such shapes as desired, and 
bake on a tin in a brisk oven. 

PICNIC CAKBS. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of butter, two eggs, one half cup 
of sweet milk, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, one half tea- 
spoonful of soda. Mix with sifted flour to the consistency of 
cookies, cut in strips, which roll in powdered sugar and twist into 
round cakes. Bake a yery light brown. 

MRS. BRISTOL^d BREAD CAKB. 

* Four cups of light dough, two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three eggs, one tea-spoonful of soda, one nutmeg, raisins. This 
makes two large loaves, and constitutes a fine, cheap and healthy 
fruit cake. 

"FOBTAQB falls" CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, one cup of butter, three fourths of a cup of 
Bweet milk, four eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separate ; two 
tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar, one tea-spoonful of soda. Put 
the cream of tartar in the milk and the soda in the flour. Beat 
long and well ; bake in a mould, in each section of which Amp 
several strips of citron. It should be iced. 

POVERTY CAKE. 

Two cups of sugar, two cups of sour milk, one tea-spoonful of 
saleratus, piece of butter as large as an egg, spice to your taste, 
mix to a batter. 

SNOMT CAKE. 

Take half a pound of butter, half a pound of pounded loaf sb* 



F 

h 



gar, whites only of six eggs, and one ^und of arrowroot. Beat 
the butter to a cream, then add the arrowroot and sugar gradually, 
beating all the time ; beat the six whites separately, in a basin, 
and when a stiff froth, add to the mixture ; put a few drops of any 
sort of essence either lemon, almond, or vanilla, and beat all for 
twenty minutes. Then put into a tin and bake in a moderate ov- 
en, great care being taken that the outside is not burnt before the 
inside is done. Some persons cut snow cake into slices before 
sending i^. to table, having previously cut off the outside and sifted 
powdered sugar over each slice. 

SMALL SBBD CAKES, 

One cup of butter, two of white sug»r, three eggs, half a cup 
of seeds, and liour enough to make a stiff paste. Roll it very thin, 
with sugar instead instead of flour, on the board, and cut it in 
round shapes. Bake it about fifteen minutes. 

CRBAM CAKE. — 1. 

One cup of sugar, one of sour cream, two of sifted flour, two 
eggs, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda, half of 
salt. Flavor with essence of almond. It is quickly made, and 
delicious eaten j&esh. 

CRBAM CAKB. — 2. 

Mix a quart of flour, a pint or more of sweet cream, to wet it 
well, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, dissolved in a little sour cream 
and bake. 

CREAM CAKES. 

(^Outside.) Two cups of flour, half-cup of butter, half-pint cold 
water. Boil the butter and water together, and stir the flour in 
gradually while boiling. Let it cool ; then add Gye eggs, a pinch 
:>f saleratus, and a little salt. Drop the mixture on tins, and bake 
in a quick oven.* 

{Inside,) One pint of milk, one cup white sugar, half-cop of 
flour, two eggs. Beat the eggs, sugar, and flour together, and 
itir them in the milk while boiling. Flavor with lemon or vanilla. 
Cut a slit in th« nde of Mch oake, and put in the filling alUr tbt 



200 «Wfe«t OAftM. 



CQRNETS A CRGMB. 

Tlese are little cakes. ma()p of the yolks of four eggs, tKrM 
ounces of white sugar melted in a few drops of water upon th« 
nre, two table-spoonsful of flour, and a little essence of lemon ; 
this mixtui-e is baked very thin upon buttered pans, and then roll- 
ed round into small cornucopias, and filled with a whip of cream 
and a little powdi^red sugar. 

PORTUGAL CAKE. 

Take half a pound of fresh butter, a pound of fine sugar, and 
four eggs, beat the mixture well till it is light and looks curdling; 
flavor it with maco, add half a pound of currants and a pound of 
flour ; mix all together, put it in pans and bake in a mild oven. 

GLEN VIS CAKE. 

Take one large cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, two eggs, 
half a cup of milk, half a tea-spoonful of soda, one tea-spoonful 
of cream of tartar, spice, and a proportionate quantity of flour. 
By using the whites only of three eggs the cake is made finer and 
whiter. 

WARSAW WHITE CAKE. 

Take one and a half large cups of flour, mix half of it with two 
table-spoonsfhl of melted butter, one tea-spoonful of cream of tar- 
ter, and sonre milk ; mix the other half with some milk and one 
tea-spoonful of soda. Add to these a coffee cup of sugftr, beat aU 
together and bake. The milk for cake should always be divided, 
and the soda dissolved in one portion and the cream of tartar in 
the other. 

SOUTH CAROLINA CAKE. 

One small cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three cups of floor, 
four eggs, half a tea-spoonsful of soda, half a tea-cupful of milk, a 
little brandy, and a cup of raisins. 

CIDER CAKE 

Oni oupfbl of sugar, one cupful of butter, mix them topAm^ 



Xhi break in two or three eggs ; then add one cupful of flour, one 
nutmeg, and one tea-spoonful of saleratus; put into it one -cupful 
of iider, or pour the cider foaming over it ; then add two cups fuU 
of flour; mix the whole well together, and bake it three quarters 
of an hour. 

CONNECTICITT COFFEB CAKE. 

Two eggs, two cups of sugar, one cup of coffee (liquid), Ihrcf 
fourths cup of butter, three cups of flour, one tea-spoonful each of 
crfnres, cinnamon, and nutmeg, one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar 
and one half tea-spoonful of soda. 

FRIED CAKK8 WITHOUT EGGS OR MILK. 

Melt a small table-ipoonful of lard in a pint of hot water; add a 
heaping tea-spoonful of salt. Mix in smoothly a tea-spoonful of 
soda, two tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar, and sufficient sifted 
Hour to make a batter ; add a coffee cup of sugar, and a little 
nutmeg if desired, and work the dough quickly, but thoroughly. 
Roll it out thin, cut into round cakes and fry immediately. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Two cups sugar, two cups sweet milk, half- cup butter, two eggs, 
two tea-spo^sful cream of tartar, one tea-spoon soda, a pinch of 
salt, spice. Add flour in sufficient quantity to roll in shape, and 
fry in hot lard. 

GINGER FOUND CAKE WITH FRUIT. 

Three quarters of a pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound 
of butter, two pounds of flour, six eggs, one quart of molasses, 
half a pound of currants, quarter of a pound of raisins, three 
table-spoonsful of ginger, one tea-spoonful of cloves, two tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon, three tea-spoonsful of baking powder dis- 
solved in a few spoonsful of milk. Bake one hour. 

CRULLERS. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar, half a cup of butter, one eap of 

■ilk, three tea-spoonsfiil of baking powder, natmeg, ciiuuuiioB, 

8» 



202 flWsBt CAlcMi. 

and lemon jutce to taste, flour sufficient to stiffen. Cat in ftripci 
and fry in lard. 

CUP CAKK. — 1. 

Three cups of flour, one cup of butter, two cups of sugar, foar 
•ggs, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, nutmeg, and essence of lemoo. 

CUP CAKE. — 2. 

( h«ani half a cup of butter, vrith three cups of sugar, by beating : 
«tir in five eggs ; dissolve a small tea-spoonful of soda in a cup of 
•weet milk ; add six cups of sifted flour ; stir all well together, 
and if too thick, add a little more milk, without any more 8o<U. 
Flavor with essence of lemon, and a little grated nutmeg. Stir 
all well together, and bake in three pans. 

MOI^SSRS CUP CAKE. 

ft 

Butter one half cup, molasses one cup, sugar one cup, sweet 
milk one cup, three eggs, three cups of flour, one large table- 
spoonful of ginger, half tea- spoonful of salt, one tea-spoonful of 
soda dissolved in molasses. Mix butter and sugar together wi'll 
first, then add the other ingredients, eggs well-beaten being the 
last. This is very good. 

CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 

One pint of sour milk, a pint and a half or two pints of flour, 
one pound of raisins, one cup of butter, three cups of sugar, a 
spoonful of saleratus, and spice to taste. Mix together and bake 
an hour. 

HARD TIMES MOLASSES CAKE. 

One large cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one cup of but 
tennilk, half a cup of butter, one tea-spoonful of soda, one tabic- 
•poonful of ginger, four cups of flour. Good sweet dripping, or 
part lard, and part buttiT may be used. When lard is used in- 
tteai of butter, it should have a little salt worked into it. Thif'if 
rerygood. 

JENNT^S CAKX8. 

Ob« «ap •( f W6«t milk, one small cup of rag tr, tw» fpotMAi] 



BWMMT OAXM. 208 

•f cream of tartar, one spoonftil of soda, a Tery little salt and nut- 
meg * mix yery thin with sifted flour, and bake thin and quick. 

MARY^S TBA-OAKE. 

Two eggs, beaten well, with one cup of sugar then add one 
cup of sour milk, one half cup of butter, or pork drippings, one 
spoonful of soda, one half tea-spoonful oi essence of lemon, and a 
little salt ; mix about as stiff as pound cake, and bake in a loaf. 

BIRTHDAT CAKES. 

Into a pound of dried flour, put four ounces of butter, four ounces 
of sugar, one egg, a tea-spoonful of baking powder, and suffident 
milk to wet to a paste. Put in currants, and cut in cakes. Sprin- 
kle colored cara-Taj seeds on top, and bake them a light brown. 

SOCIBTT CAKES. 

One quart of sponge, three cups of sugar, one cup of butter, 
three eggs, saleratus, half a pound of stoned raisins, spice it and 
bake slowly. 

SALLY LUNN. 

Six cups of light dough, one-half cup of milk, one-half cup of 
Dutter, two eggs, and two spoonsful of white sugar ; add floui 
enough to make it the consistency of thick batter, mix well, and 
pour in greased uake-pans ; let them set in a warm place one-half 
hour, and bake by a slow fire. 

SALLY LUNN BREAD. 

One quart of milk, a little soda, three eggs, one tea cup of sugar, 
piece of butter the size of an ^gg, yeast sufficient for two loaves 
of bread Make a stiff batter. Bake twenty minutes. 

CHRISTMAS CAKES FOR GOOD CHILDREN. 

' Three, heaping table-spoonsful of sugar, two heaping table- 
spoonsful of butter, one ^g'gy two table-spoonsful of com-starcb 
or maizena, put into three cups of flour, a small cup of sweet milk) 
a heaping tea*spoonful of cream of tartar, and half of soda, t 
pinch of salt, a few Zante currimts. Boll out in powdered sugar. 



204 IfTKIT CAUM. 

cut io strips, and twist them round like champagne cakes. Sprinklf 
OTer them colored caraway comfits. Bake quick, a light brown. 

Sift four uups of flour ; cream two cups of nice brown sugar, and 
half a pound — a small tea-cup~-of butter is near enough ; beat 
two eggs very light, grate a little nutmeg, add one-half a tea- 
fpoonful of soda in half a cup of sweet milk ; add flour enough 
to roll into cakes ; handle as little as possible ; bake in a long tic 
pan, in a quick oven. 

WONDERS. 

Table-spoonful of butter, one of sugar, one egg, a little apioe. 
Mix stiff, with flour, and boil in lard. 

ROCK CAKES. 

With a pound of dried Hour mix a third of a pound of powder- 
ed sugar, quarter of a ]x>und of fresh butter beaten to a cream 
three well-bt»aton e^frs and half a pound of dried currants, wash- 
ed ; beat them all well tofi^etlier, and flavor with nutmeg and lem- 
on peel grated, pounded mace and a spoonful of brandy. Prepare 
the baking plates by sprinkling a little flour on them, and drop the 
hatter on them with a spoun, a spoonful at a time. The batter 
should be stifl*, so that t\w top of the cakes will remain rough. 
Stick them with blanched almonds sliced, and bake them in a slack 
oven until of a light color. 

SHREWSBURY CAKE. 

Sifi three pounds of flour, and a pound of sugar, flavor it with 
cinnamon and nutmeg ; beat three eggs with half a pound of melt- 
ed butter, so that it will be of a proper consistency to roll into 
paste ; knead it well, roll it out and cut in small cakes, prick them, 
and bake them in a brisk oven. 

NEW ENGLAND DOUGHNUTS. 

Two cups of sugar, one half a cup of butter, one pound ol 
flour, one nutmeg, one tea-spoonful of cinnamon, one-half cap of 
baker^s yeast. Mix into a dough, with warm milk, and set it te 



gWEET CAKBS. 205 

rise. Whtm light, roll out half au inch thick, and cut into diauiunds. 
Boil in a small iron kettle, in lard which is boiling hot, but musi 
not be allowed to bum. Turn when brown on one side, and take 
Aem up with a fish slice. 

I>OUGHNUT8. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, one and one quarter pounds of 
Bugar, three fourths of a pound of butter ; add ginger, nutmeg, 
ind a small cup of yeast. 

COOKIES. 

Two cups of »ugar, cgie half cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, one tea-spo'>nful of baking powder, caraway seeds, flour 
enough to roll. These are deliciously light and tender. 

PARTY PUFFS. 

Make a rich paste, roll out thin, and cut with a biscuit-cutter. 
Lay them on a shallow tin pan, which has been buttered, and roll 
out a puff-paste, which cut of the same size. In the centre of 
each of the pieces of puff paste cut a hole with a small wine glasi>, 
leaving a rim, which place on the top of your first pieces of paste 
and bake all together a light brown. Before putting in the oven, 
brush them over with sweetened white of egg ; it greatly improves 
the appearance. Fill with jelly or sweetmeats of any kind. 

ENGLISH BUNS. 

Kub well together three and a half pounds of flour, and three 
quarters of a pound of butter ; mix it with sweet milk heated, half 
a pint of ale yeast, spice, and caraway seeds ; knead it into a light 
paste, and put it before the fire to rise. Then work in three 
quarters of a pound of iiugar, roll it rather thin, cut into buns, 
place them before the fire to rise again, then bake in a quick 
oven. 

BUK8. 

Half a capful of yeut, one and a half cupsful of sweet milk, 
or water, half a cupful of sugar, stir to a thick batter ; let it rise 
over night, in the morning add one cupful of sugar, half a cupfol 



2(re 

of butter^'A small tea-spoonful of salaratus; stir ms stiff as Uscalt ; 
let it stand until light, mould, raise and bake. They are excel-. 
lent warm, for tea. 

OmOBR SNAPS. 

One pint of molasses, one tea-spoonful of butter and lard, mixed, 
two eyen tea-spoonsful of soda, dissolved in two thirds of a tea- 
cupful of boiling water, two table-spoonsful of ginger; mix as 
quickly as possible, with flour enough to roll out thin, and bake 
quickly to a light brown. Sorghum molasses is preferred. They 
will keep any length of time. 

GINOBR NUTS.* 

Take three-quarters of a pound of butter, a pint of molasses, 
and half a pound of sugar. Melt them together, and when cold 
mix with it three pounds of flour, half an ounce of ^^ger, and a 
little lemon Juice. 

SPONeS OINeSBBBSAD. 

One cup of sour milk, one cup of molasses, half a cup of butter, 
one or two eggs, one and a half tea-spoonsful of soda, one large 
spoonful of ginger, and flour to make it as thick as pound cake; 
put the butter, molasses and ginger together, and make them 
quite warm; then add the flour, milk, and soda together, and 
bake as soon as possible. 

HABD TDDBS OmOBBBRXAD. 

Two cups of molasses, one cup of sugar, three parts of a cup 
of butter, or sweet dripping, a coffee-cup of water, a tea-spoon- 
ful of salaratus, a table or tea-spoonful of ginger. Ejiead soft, 
roll half an inch thick. Bake quick. 

BIOS CHBBSE CAKES. ~1. 

Beat three'eggs, the whites separately, and four ounces of white 
sugar together; then take half a pound of flnely sifted ground rice, a 
quarter of a pound of butter, mix all together, with a small blade 
of mace flnely pounded, and the peel of two lemons, rubbed on 
fu^ The cheese cakes to be light must be m$de yeiy quiok. 



Pour the batter into little tins not quite full, and bake in a briak 
OTen. Eaten cold. 

RICK CIIKESB CAKES. — 2. 

Boil a quarter of a pound of rice till tender in three pints of 
milk, put in four eggs, quarter of a pound of butter, half a pini 
of croam, six ounces of sugar, a lemon extract, nutmeg. Bea! 
well, and put in paste in small saucers, or patty-pans, and bake. 

ENGLISn CHEESE CAKES. 

Take six ounces of potatoes, and the peel of four lemons ; boil 
them together until tender, and then beat thoroughly the lemon- 
peel, with a quarter of a pound of sugar ; and the potatoes with 
the same quantity of butter, and a little cream or milk, into which 
an egg has been beaten. Mix all well together, with a few nicely 
cleaned Zante currants, and bake in patty-pans, lined with ridi 
paste, half an hour. Sift sugar over them. 

APPLE CHEESE CAKES. — 1. 

Pare, core, and boil twelve apples, with enough water to nuuih 
them ; beat them up very smooth, then add three eggs, the juice 
of two lemons and some grated peel, quarter of a pound of firesh 
butter, beaten into a cream and sweetened with pounded loaf su- 
gar ; beat all well in with the apples, bake it in a puff paste, and 
send it up like an open tart. 

,^ APPLE CHEESE CAKE. — 2, 

Pare, core, and boil twelve apples, with enough water to nuuih 
them ; beat them up very smooth, and add the yolks of six egga, 
the juice of two lemons, and some grated peel, a quarter of a 
pound of fresh butter, beaten into a cream, and sweetened with 
pounded loaf sugar ; beat all well in with the apples. Bake it in 
a puff paste, and send it up like open tarts. It is well to make a 
silver cake with these apple cheese cakes, as it makes a fine addi* 
tion to *he table, and uses up the whites of the eggs. 

BREAD CHEESE CAKBS. 

Sliee up a large French roll very thin, poor on it wornm boiling 



n 



M6 dWlsitt CAidii. 

milk ; when cold, add four e;^^, quarter of a pound of buKil 
melted, some nutmeg, a spoonful of essence of lemon, a little su- 
gar, and half a pound of currants ; when mixed together, pourtlif 
mixture into puff paste as other cheese-cakts. 

COCOANUT CHBBSR CAKRS 



f f 



Half a rocoanut, three ounces of lump sugar in half a quart 
of a pint of water, the sugar being first dissolved in the water, aii.i 
llien tin- c'ocoanut, grated, to be added ; let this boil for a Tvr^ 
minnti's over a .^low fire, and, when cold, add to it the beaten 
yolks of three eggs and the white of one; put the mixture into 
tins with puff paste, and bake them in a slow oven. 

ALMOND CHEESE CAKES. 

The yolks of three eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound o( 
bitter and quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and a quartei 
pound of sifled sugar. The almonds must be pounded, but not 
vttrv finely. The eggs should be beaten to a cream, and the su- 
gar mixed with them, and then the almonds added. To be put 
mio tartlet tins lined with puff past«. 

NEW year's biscuits. 

Boil a pound and a quarter of lump sugar, upon which you have 
rubbed the rind of a lemon, in half a pint of milk ; when cold, 
rub half a pound of butter with two pounds of flour, make a hole' 
in the centre, pour in the milk, with as much carbonate of soda as 
would lie upon a sixpence, and a couple of eggs; mix the whole 
into a smooth paste, lay it out upon your baking-sheet in what- 
ever flat shapes you please, and bake them in a very warm oven. 
The pi*o]>er way to shape these biscuits is by wooden blocks hav- 
ing pineapples, leaves, and other devices carved on them. 

CREAM BISCUIT. 

Rub one pound of fresh butter into one pound of flour, make a 
biilc in the centre into which put half a pound of powdered sugar, 
jujion which the rind of a lemon was rubbed previously to pound- 
ing, and ihree eggs ; mix the eggs well with sugar, and then mix 
.lA together, forming a flexible paste ; cut it into round pieces each 



UK 

ftWXBT CAKSA. 

nearly as large as a walnut ; stamp them flat with a small stamp, 
and bake them in a slack oven. 

AFPLU BISCUIT. 

Boil apples in water until soft, then take them out and nib 
through a wire sieve; flavor with a drop or two of essence or of 
of lemon, and, if you like the taste, a drop (if the oil of cloves. 
\ad imup sugar e(i|ual in wei«^I)t to the pulp, arul «^rind it with it; 
roii the sugared pulp into flat cakes about a quarter of an inch 
thick, and cut them into shapes. Finally dry them in a very slow 
oven, the heat not being stron*^ enough to bake them or melt the 
sugar; they may be dried also by the summer's sun. They often 
require to be partially dried before they can be rolled out. They 
may, in8tea<l of rolling, be dropped on to paper, or put in a ring 
of paper upon a slightly greased iron plate. 

ORANGE BISCUITS. 

Grate the rind from five oranges, and put into a mortar with 
quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, three quarters of a pound of 
pounded lump sugar, and the whites of one or two eggs, and mix it 
well together with the pestle until it is very light. Drop the mix- 
ture, when ready, in small lumps about the size of a walnut, on 
doubled paper, laid on a baking tin, and put them into mo<lerately 
hot oven. Do not dro)) them too near together on the paper, as 
they spread while baking. When they are baked take them out, 
and take them off the paper when they are cold. 

MOSS BISCUITS. 

Weigh half a pound of flour, to which add an ounce and a half 
v)f butter and five ounces of sugar, rub them well together, and 
Miix with one whole and one white of egg, and a tea-spoonful of 
uiilk; then add two ounces of ground almonds, which rub well 
into the paste ; afterwanls rub the whole through a gauze wire 
sieve, taking it oH' in small pieces, which lay upon a lightly butter 
ed baking sheet, and bake theui in a moderate oven. 

GIXGER BISCUITS. 

One pound of flour, half a pound of butter, turned to a creain, 



210 iWXKT CAXMB. 

kalf-a pound of wbil^e iugar sifted. Theae to be well mixed ; 
then udd the yolks and whites of three eggs, beaten separateljr. 
with two ounces of powdered ginger. These last mix gradually 
with the rest. RoU out thin and cut it into biscuits ; bake rbem 
OB tins in a quick OTen. 

JXn>OS*S BISCUITS. 

Break six eggs into a basin, whisk them well for fire minutes ; 
put in half a pound of powdered sugar, and whisk again for ten 
minutes. Add some cararway seeds, if liked, and half a pound 
of dry sifted flour, mixing all thoroughly. Drop the mixture on 
paper, each being the size of about a silver quarter dollar and 
high in the middle. Sift sugar oyer them and bake tfaem. BemoTe 
them from the paper while they are hot. A wooden spoon is the 
best to stir with. 

uNG^s Bisourra. 

Put half a pound of butter into a basin and turn it about well 
Whisk six eggs well, add half a pound of powdered sugar, whislr 
another ten minutes, and then mix with the butter, after which 
stir in six ounces of currants, and an equal quantity . of dried 
flour. After mixing these ail well togedier, drop the mixture on 
paper and bake in a quick oven, taking the biscuits off the paper 
while hot. 

jr 

GRAHAM FIG BISCUIT. 

Wash and scald figs and mix with enough Graham flour to makt 
a good dough by much kneading; roll and cut into bi«cnits half at 
inch thick, bake quickly. 

MACAROONS. 

Scald a pound of almonds, let them lie awhile in cold water, 
Hlbu dry them, and mash them together. Moisten them in the 
white of an egg to prevent them turning into oil, and then take 
an equal quantity of powdered sugar, and the whites of four eggs. 
Mix the whole well together, shape them on wafer-paper and baki 
on thin plates in a mild oveq. 



AWbst OAidts. 211 



COCOANUT CAKES, 

Scrape off the rind and grate the uut quite fine, and mix it with 
bftir its weight of finely pounded white sugar, and the white of an 
egg. Drop the mixture on wafer paper in rough pieces, the size 
of X nutmee. and bake it in a moderate oveii. 

ICING. 

To ice a good sized cake, put eight ounces of powdered siigai 
into a mortar with four spoonsfuls of rose water, and the whites of 
two eggs, beating and straining it. Tlien whisk it well, and when 
the cake is almost cold cover it with the iceing evenly, using a 
feather or knife. Put it in the oven to harden, but not long enough 
to discolor it, and keep it in a very dry place. 

GHOOOLATB ICIKO. 

A cup of milk, a quarter of a pound of good chocolate, one cup 
of powdered sugar, one tea-spoonful of vanilla. Scald the milk 
and chocolate, then add the sugar, and pour it on the well-beaten 
white of an egg. This will ice a good sized cake or pudding. An 
afaDond iceing is given in the receipt for a bride cake. 



'srtw 



PBESERVED FRUITS AND SWEETMEATS. 



CANNING FRUIT. 

This new method recommends itself, not only on account of iti 
health, but its economy, especially since the price of sugar has 
become so enormous as to be almost prohibitory. Properly put up 
in the right kind of cans, there are many fruits which require no 
■agar, and even the most acid only a very little, say, one fourth of 
the weight ; it should, however, be of the finest quality. 

BIACKBERRISS . 

Use the zinc-covered, self-sealing jars, as the covers of these 
can be screwed down without difficulty, while the jars are in the 
water, and we have never known fruit to spoil in them. 

Fill the jars with fruit and sugar in the proportion of one pound 
of crushed sugar to four pounds of fruit. Set them in cold water 
(a wash boiler is as good as any thing for the purpose), which heat 
to boihng. The jars, by the way, should not be filled to within an 
mch of the top, and when the boiling process, by expelling the air, 
has forced the fruit up to the top of the jar, it is exactly the time 
to put on the cover, and with a small holder in the lefl hand, to 
keep the fingers from being burnt, screw it tight down, before 
taking the jar firom the water. 

Cherries, raspberries and plums, may be preserved in precisely 
the same way ; peaches and pears also, omitting the sugar, which 
they do not require, as they keep just as well without. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Separate the hulls from the berries, for each pound oi beniei 
weigh out three quarters of a pound of pounded sugar ; pat tlM 



PBBSERVED PBtriTS. 213 

tierries in a deep dish sprinkling the sugar among it, and lot them 
riiiuain ten or twelve hours, then boil them together half an hour 
▼er}' slowly. 

RA8PBERRT JAM. 

"I^his should be made in the same manner as strawberry jam. 

ft it boil, after it commences to do so, fifteen or twenty minutes ; 

mother way is to bruise together a quart of raspberries, and a 
pint of currant jelly ; boil them slowly six or seven minutes, stirring 
them ; then put into close pots. This will keep two years. 

STRAWBERRIES IN CANS. 

Half a pound of sugar to every pound of berries ; scald them 
together, fill the cans while hot, and seal at once. * 

DRIED STRAWBERRIES 

Put ten pounds of strawberries into a jar, and sprinkle among 
them four pounds of white sugar.^ Let them stand until the next 
day, then scald them and put them back into the jar. On the third 
day, put another pound of sugar over them and scald them again, 
pour out on plates, or dishes, and dry them in a cool oven, or the 
back part of the range. They must be kept in tin canisters, and 
will make a very good dessert dish in winter. 

STRAWBERRY JAM. 

Boil the strawberries gently until thick, and very much I'educed' 
add loaf sugar, three quarters of a pound to a pound of fruit, and 
stir constantly, until it is reduced to a paste. Put in small jars, 
and cover with egg paper — that is paper covered on the under 
fide with white of egg, — and tie down a second paper over them. 

PRESERVED RASPBERRIES. 

Take five or six pounds of red, tut not too ripe raspberries , 
pi jk and put them into a preserving pan, with an equal weight of 
clarified sugar; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, 
skim and pour the whole into a pan, till the next day ; then drain the 
fruit and put it into jars ; put to the syrup about two glasses of 
eherry juice, previously strained ; boil the sugar again, and pour if 



214 Mttsxitirxi) nmts. 

over the raspberries ; add afterwards about a spoonAd of camat 
juice to eadi pot, and when cold, lay on brandy paper, and tie 
them down. 

CUBRAKT AMD RASFBKRRIBfl SWKBTMXAT. 

Take eqaal weight of red currants and raspberries, and of 
•agar, three quarto's of a pound of best loaf, to each pound o( 
frnit. Cover the fruit with the sugar over night, and the next day 
boil all together slowly for an hour, skimming if necessary. Put in 
small jars, and fasten down while hot, with egg, or brandy paper. 
It will keep well, and makes a delicious sweetmeat. 

CHERBT JAM. 

Stone four pounds of Kentish cherries, add to them half a piat 
red currant juice and a pound of fine sugar, and boil all logedier 
briskly till the mixture becomes stiff. 

ORKBN GRAPE JAM. 

Put the grapes in a jar, and let them cook in a kettle of boiling 
water, until they are soft, and can be separated from the seeds. 
Strain through a fine colander, and to every pound of grape, put a 
pound of crushed sugar. Boil all together very gently, until a thick 
jam is formed, and then put in small moulds, or glasses, and cover 
with egg paper. 

PLUM JAM. 

Prepare the plums by skinning and stoning them, allow Uiree 
quarter* of a pound of finely pounded loaf sugar to one pound oi 
finiit ; lay them in a deep dish over night with the sugar sprinkled 
among them, and in the morning let them boil twenty minutes, 
after they have become sufficiently hot to bubble over their whole 
surface. 

PIinSAPPLB JAM. 

Cut the pineapple into small slices and then into square pieces, 
removmg all the skin and eyea. Allow three quarters of a pound 
of loaf sugar to a pound of pineapple, and boil them very slowly 
fewwity-five or thirty minutes. 



PmSlSBTKB FBVITi. 216 



BLACK CURRANT JAM. 

Boil together for (]uarter of an hour afler it commpiices to bub* 
Me, itirring well a mixture composed of a pint of juice of red cup- 
rants, and a pound and a (quarter of pounded loaf sugar, to each 
pound of currants. 

PRESERVED CHERRIES. 

Stone the fruit, weigh it, and for every pound, take three quar> 
tcrs of a pound of loaf sugar. First dissolve the sugar in water, 
in the proportion of a pint of water to a pound and a half of sugar. 
Then add the fruit, and let it boil as fast as possible for half an 
hour, till it begins to jelly, as it soon thickens by keeping. Put it 
in pots, cover with brandy paper next the fruit, and then, closely 
from the air. 

PICKLED CHERRIES. 

Procure white ** ox-heart*^ cherries, leave the stems on, and 
prepare for eight jjounds of fruit, four pounds of sugar, two quarts 
fery best vinegar, a little cloves and double the bulk in cinnamon, 
mace and ginger root. Boil the vinegar, sugar and spices, skim- 
ming thoroughly. Put the fruit in bottles, strain the syrup over 
it, screw them down, and put them in a kettle of boiling water for 
ten minutes. When they look like cracking they are done. 

PINE APPLE MARMALADE. 

Boil together for each pound of grated pineapple a pound of 
double refined loaf sugar. When it is boiled thick, which will be 
II) 21 bout fifteen minutes, if the quantity is small, or more if large, 
put it in tumblers, and paste over them papers wet with the beaten 
Aiiites of eggs. Keep it in a dry, cool place. 

PRESERVED QUINCES. 

Peel and core them, put in the kettle, and cover them with the 
parings, cores, and considerable water. Cover close and boil till 
lender; then take out the quinces, strain off the liquor, and to 
every pint add one pound of loaf-sugar. Boil it a few minuter, 
skim, put in the quinces, and boil slowly twenty minutes, or until 
they are clear. 



ft 



216 PRBSBlP^SD FEUCrft* 



CHAB APPIJi:S I'RESSBYKD. 

W«5igh the apples, and^ with an equal weight of sugar mftke s 
lyrup with apple jelly, and after this is well boiled, prick the crab- 
apples and put them into it. When they have boiled a few min- 
'iit«8 take th'iui out, and let them drain on a sieve. Put tbem 
if^in into th« syrup, when they are nearly cold, and after boiling 
I ft^w niinute& more, drain them as before. Repeat this f.rocess a 
^ nl time, and afterwards place them in glasses or jars, pouring 
• 111' I toiling jelly over them. 

BRANDY GA6RS. 

Take greengages, wash and wipe them dry, prick them on oppo6it« 
sides and pack them in bottles or jars, with mouths large enough 
to let the fruit in without pressing. Prepare a very rich syrup, 
let it cool to blood heat, mix in the proportion of one third syrup 
to two of brandy, mix thoroughly, fill the bottles, cork, and seal 
perfectly air tight. If syrup is left, bottle it for future use. If 
the skins are tough remove them. 

PRESERVED PINEAPPLES. 

Peel the pineapples, cut out the eyes, slice them and cut out the 
hard. centre. Then boil them till tender; skim the liquid and add 
to it three quarters of a poutid of sugar to a pound of* pine apple. 
Boil it, skim it again and put in the fruit, and boil it till clear of 
soft, or put in lemons and one pound of sugar. . 

GREEN FIGS PRESERVED. 

Take half ripe figs, and prick them near the stalk, scald them and 
when half cold throw them into cold water and let them drain. 
I 'oil clarified sugar in a covered preserving pan, put in the figs, let 
them boil three or four times ; then take them from the fii«, skina 
(hem well and put them in a warm place over night. In the morn- 
< Hg drain off the syrup, boil it up a dozen times, and when luke- 
wArm pour it on the figs. Let it stand till the next day, drain it 
off and b^il it up again, then add the figs to it, boil them together 
once in the covered preserving pan, slum again, and put in Jan 
for use* 



PSB^BVBD FBI7IT8. IHT 



TO FBXSERVS TLXntB OB DAICSOHB WBOLB. 

Wwgh jahr fhiit, and to every pound allow three qoaiten ol 
eroshed sogar. Pat into stone jars alternate layers of froit and 
sugar tie do^n with cloth, and let them stand ii^ an oyea after 
bread has been baked in it, until it is cold. The next day strain 
off thi5 syrup, boil and clarify it, and pour over the fruit, which in 
the mean time has been carefully removed to glass jars or chintf 
pots. Place over them egg tissue-paper, and over that thick whitn 
papei pasted, or bladder tied strongly down. 

Another method is to put the plums into water over a slow fire 
until they begin to peel, keeping them under the water, then take 
the ildns off carefully and put them into a jar with enough thin 
syrup to cover them completely. Boil the syrup next day, put the 
plums in, boil gently, allow them to stand till cold ; repeat the pro- 
cess, turning them in the syrup till qearly cold. Take the plums 
out, strain the syrup, add more sugar, skim it, put the plums in 
again and boil them till they become quite dear, then put them in 
jars and tie them down with paper. 

CUBRANTS FBBttKBVJKD* 

Scald a few of the currants at a time undl all are done, put su- 
gar into the juice in the proportion of a pound of sugar to a pound 
of currants, and boil a few minutes ; then put the currants back 
into the syrup, and boil them up once. 

BHUBABB FSBSBBYXD. 

Pare half a dozen oranges, remove the seeds and white rind, 
slice the pulp into a stew pan with the peel cut very small. Then 
add a quart of rhubarb cut fine, and a pound and a half of loaf 
sugar ; boil the whole down as for other preserves. This is almost 
equal to Scotch marmalade. 

OBAKOBS FBBSBBYXD. 

To preserve oranges whole, grate the rinds slightly, and score 
them round with a knife, or cut the rinds into scollops or any other 
pattern, not cutting deep ; then put them into cold water for three 
days, changing the water twp or three tunes a diay ; afterwards tie 

10 



218 raSSlftVBD PftUITS. 

them Dp in a bag, and boil them in water until a pin^s head will 
penetrate their skins easity. Take a pound and a half of while 
fogar to every pound of oranges, and while they are boiling, pot 
the sugar on the fire with rather more than half a pint of water 
to each pound. Let it boil a n^innte or two, and then strain it 
through muslin. Then put the oranges into the syrup, and boO 
jntO the svrp will jelly and is of a nice yellow color ; it cannot 
be too stiff The syrup need not cover the oranges, but they most 
be Ciumed so that each part gets thoroughly done. 

FICKLENO PEARS AMD FBAGHB8. 

Thb is a very nice way of preserving these fruits, particolarty 
for those who like such a relish with cold meats. Select smooth 
freestone peaches, and medium sized juicy pears, and stick them 
full of cloves, that is to say, like pins upon a pincushion, heads np ; 
and perhaps half an inch apart. Boil together, either the syrup 
left from dried fruit, and vinegar, in the proportions mentioned m 
the receipt for drying plums and small fruit, or seven pounds of 
good Orleans sugar to one gallifh of good vinegar, an ounce of 
mace, and an ounce of allspice. When it boils, put in the fruit, 
and let it all boil gently together, until a pin will slip in and out 
easily. Then take the fruit out in jars, boil the spiced and sweet- 
ened vinegar for a few minutes longer, and then pour over fruit 
and set it away to cool. When cold, fasten thick paper over the 
lids with paste or mucilage. 

DASCSON PLUMS, (2b pidcUJ) 

To two pounds of plums, take one pound of brown sugar, and 
one pint of vinegar, tea-spoonful of mace, one of cinnamon ; boil 
them well, and pour it on the fruit hot ; when cold, drain it oil^ 
boil it and pour it on again, repeating it six times. 

PBACHBS DRIED WITH SXTOAB. 

Peel yellow peaches, cut them from the stone in one jneoe, ^low 
two pounds of sugar for six pounds of the fruit, make a syrup of 
three quarters pound of sugar and a little water, put in the peaches 
and let them stay till they are quite clear, take them up carefully 
on a dish and set them in the sui to dry. Strew powdered sugaf 



"T 



PBE8EBYED FBUmL 219 

over them on all sides, a little at a time, and if any syrup is left re- 
move them to fresh dishes. When they are quite dry lay them 
lightly in a jar with a little sugar between each layer. 

TO DBT PLUMS Ain> SMALL FRUITS. 

A very good method is to pit them, and put in jars, a layer of 
Ihiit to a layer of sugar, in the proportion of half a pound of logar 
to a pound of fruit. Let them stand twenty-four hours, and then 
boil them, taking the scum off, as it rises to the surface. When 
they have boiled ten minutes, take them out of the syrup, drain 
thorn, and spread them thin on dishes, or hair sieves, to dry in the 
sun ; they will need turning every few hours, until dry. 

The syrup that is left can be used, in the proportion of a large 
pint to a small quart of good vinegar, for pickling pears or peach- 
es, — ^the method for doing which is explained in the receipt under 
that head. 

Another method for drying plums, peaches and apples, is to 
prepare them nicely, by pitting or peeling and cutting, dry them 
partly, and then lay them in jars, strewing sugar between each lay- 
er. Tie them down, and they will keep well, and be delicious for 
pies, or stewing. 

Some people are troubled with insects among fruit, when it if 
kept a long time. A handful of sassafras bark thrown among it 
will keep it free from worms. 

FBBSBBVIED GETBON. 

Pare ripe cftron melons, and cut them into half-moon shaped 
pieces, about half an inch in thickness. Boil in soda water until 
tender, when a straw will pass through them;, skim them out and 
lay them in weak alum water ; let them remain three hours ; then 
put them in cold water for another hour. Then take on^ quart 
of water, four pounds of sugar, and the same weight of citron ; 
boil this syrup and remove the scum ; when clear put in the citron, 
lot it remain till the sugar has penetrated it thoroughly ; then pack 
it in jars. Boil the syrup until it is ropy, and pour it in the jars. 
Flavor with extract of ginger. Add to each quart jar a table* 
fpoouful of extract of lemon oeel, and seal them at foon at filMi 
with paper wet in egg. 



220 PBBUBBTED FBU1T8. 



APPLE SWKBTBaBA.T8. 

Procure fresh gathered ripe apples, of a fine sort ; peel 
take out the cores, and cut them in quarters ; place them in a pre« 
serving pan with a glass of .water, a little lemon or orange peel, 
lad a pound of sugar to a pound and a half of fruit. Let it boil 
Iboiroughly, and then put it into preserve pots. 

APPLE PRBSBRTB. 

Peel and weigh ten pounds of apples ; stew them in a pan, with 
one pint of water ; when they are quite tender put in eight pounds 
of pounded suger, two ounces of ground ginger, the juice and 
grated rind of four or five lemons ; let it boil half an hour or more, 
itirring it all the time, then put it in small jars or moulds. 

APPLE BUTTER. 

Take ten gallons of new sweet cider, before it has fermented ; 
pat it into a brass kettle ; if the kettle will not hold all of the ci- 
der, put in a part, and set it a-boiling ; skim it, and as it boils 
away keep adding, until you have put in all the cider ; boil down 
to about five gallons. For the ten gallons of cider, take half a 
bushel of quarters of apples ; part quince gives it a fine flavor. 
Now wash and drain the apples, put them into the boiled dder, 
and when they are soft, it must be stirred constantly until finished. 
It requires a stick formed in such a way as to keep moving on the 
bottom of the kettle, to prevent the apple firom sticking' and burn- 
ing. Have a slow fire, and attend carefully to th^stirring at the 
bottom of the kettle. If fi>r winter use, from one to two hours* 
boiling, after the apples first begin to boil, is sufficient ; or a long- 
er time if thought proper. Before taking it fi*om the fire, season 
with spice, cinnamon and cloves, to suit the taste. Remove the 
kettle from the fire, dip the apple butter while hot into well glazed 
orocks, or stone jars ; then set away to cool. When cold, cut pa- 
per covers for each crock ; soak it in apple-jack, lay it inside of 
the vessel, on the apple butter, and cover it close. A bturel of 
eider may be boiled down to about ten gallons, observing the same 
proportioDS af given above. 



]^BBSEBVBD FBUITB. 221 



TO PREVENT WASTE IN AFFLBS. 

An excellent way to prevent waste in apples, is to pick out all 
that are beginning to speck, peel, cut up and stew as for sauce, 
and fill into air-tight cans. As canned fruit is used through the 
fiiU and winter, the cans can be re-fiUed in this way with apploSi 
and in that way they will be preserved for pies or sauce till summer. 

PRESERVED PIPPINS. 

Pippins and bell-flowers make a delicious preserve. Take half 
a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit, make a syrup in which 
boil the fruit till clear, take out the fruit and boil the syrup till 
thick ; add extract of lemon to taste, and pour over the fruit to 
prevent the necessity of long boiling, which injures the taste and 
looks of preserves ; they can be put while boiling into tin cans and 
sealed. 

PRESERVED CUCUMBERS. 

Split the cucumbers and extract the seeds. Let them remain 
for three days in salt and water. Put them now into cold water, 
with a small quantity of alum, and boil them till tender. Drain 
them and allow them to lie in a thin syrup for two days ; then take 
them out, boiling the syrup again, and pour it over the cucumbers, 
repeating this operation twice more. Now boil some clarified su- 
gar until, when a spoonful of it is taken up and blown through, 
small sparks of sugar will fly from it ; put the cucumbers into this 
and let them simmer five minutes. Leave them until the next day, 
when the whole most be boiled up again, and afterwards put by 
for use. 

VEOBTABLB MARROW PRESERVED. 

Soak the vegetable marrow twelve hours in salt and water, then 
pare it, remove the seeds and soft part, cut it into small, thick, 
square pieces. Boil it in water until tender, put in a little prepared 
cochineal to color it ; then strain it. Make a syrup of powdered 
ing^, boil in it two sliced lemons and a quarter of a pound of 
whole ginger ; when cold, put in the vegetable marrow and let il 
stand two days Pour off the syrup, add more sugar to it, boil il 



222 PBXSKBYED FBUIT8 

again and adi > to the yegetable marrow ; remore tbe yegetabla 
marrow, boil h ap seyeral times till the syrup is strong and tran#- 
parent, and the last time you do so boil the vegetable marrow in 
the syrup. An equal weight of sugar and vegetable marrow if 
oaed in making the syrup. 

TOMATO FIQ8. 

Take pear shaped, or small single tomatoes, scald and skin tiiem, 
then to half a peck or eight pounds of them, take three pounds of 
brown sugar. Cook them with sugar oyer a fire without water, 
ontil the sugar penetrates and they are clarified. Take them oat, 
apread on dishes, flatten them and dry in the sun. Sprinkle on a 
little syrup while drying, afler which pack down in boxes treating 
each layer with powdered sugar ; the syrup that is left can be boil- 
ed down and bottled for use. They will keep firom year to year, 
retaining their flavor, which is nearly like that of fresh figs. 

FBE8ERVED ARTICHOKES; 

Cook them half done, then separate the leaves from the fur and 
preserve the fleshy part called ** the bottom,^ and turn them still 
warm into cold water to make them firm. Afterwards put them in- 
to the oven four different times, when they will become thin, hard 
and transparent. They may be eaten raw with salad sauce. 

CANDIED ORANGE FEEL RINOS. 

Cut some Seville oranges in half, remove the pulp, and let the 
peel soak for three days in strong salt and spring water. This 
must be repeated three times, after which the peel should be plac- 
ed on a sieve to dry. Put one pound of loaf sugar to one quart 
of water, boil it, and skim it until quite clear. Double the orange 
peel, and cut it across in narrow strips which, when opened, will, 
of course, form rings. Let these simmer in the sugar until quite 
transparent, and then dry them before the fire. Make a syrup of 
the best loaf sugar using only enough water to dissolve it ; and 
while it is boiling put in the ringp, stirring continually until the 
sugar is candied round them, (hen {«it tbam to dry before the fin 
or in a cool oven. 



PBESEBVED FBXHTS. 228 



FRBPARINa CITRON FOR CAKB. 

Boil the citron in soda water until it is clear or tender, baTS 
ready a nice 8}Tup of sugar ; put in the citron, and boil until the 
•agar has struck through it ; take it out on plates to dry slowly, 
sprinkle pulverized sugar on both sides, two or three tiiiies until il 
is dried enough. Then pack it in wooden boxes, with sygar be- 
tween the layers. It is nearly as nice as bought citron. 

FRIED PUMPKIN. 

Select the ripest and largest. Peel and stew them dry, then 
spread out on plates and dry in a cool oven until all the moisture 
is extracted. It will then be a dry, hard, thin layer, which may 
be packed away in tin cans, or boxes, in a dry place until re- 
quired for use. Be careful to dryy and not to cook or bake it while 
in the oven. When required for use, soak it over night in sweet 
milk. 

TOMATO SWEBTMBAT9. 

Scald and remove the skin, slice them thinly and stew them in 
fogar like other preserves, using the best kind of sugar,^ three 
quurten of a pound, for a pound of tomatoes. 



JELLIES. HOW TO MAKE THEM. 



AFTIiB JKIXtT. 

s 

Takie oii« dozen of the largest apples, pare and slice them into 
three quarts and one pint of water. Put them into a tin pan, and 
boil them until they become a pulp and one half of the water is 
consumed. Pour it into a jelly-bag, and after it has done running, 
press what juice you can from the bag. To every pint of juice 
add one pound of white sugar ; set the juice and sugar on the fire 
and let them boil twenty minutes skimming it all the time. Add 
lemon juice and peel to taste. Pour it into tea-cups or jelly-glasses 
at hand, and turn it out entire. The above quantity of apples will 
make about three pints of juice. Remember, after you have 
pared one apple, slice it immediately into the water, and do not 
pare them all together ; moreover, let them lie, or it will render 
them red, and you will lose a great quantity of the apple juice. 
Golden pippin apples make the finest jelly. It is necessary to be 
very careful about over-boiling all fruit jellies, else they soon 
spoil ; fifteen to twenty minutes after the sugar has been added ii 
generally sufiicient. It is also important to put jellies and jams 
into the moulds or jars, the moment they are taken firom the fire. 

Another method from the French is as follows : — Choose fine- 
flavored, jucy, ripe apples, peel them, and cut them into quarters^ 
putting them into water as they are cutj to prevent their turning 
black. When they are all cut, place them in the preserving-paa 
and put to them just water enough to cover them. Let them cook 
until they are quite soft ; take them out of the preserving-pan, 
place them in a seive, and let the juice drain fi?om them. Boil the 
juice with an equal weight of sugar until it will jelly, (when test- 
ed by placing a litde on a cold plate,) and poor it into the jelly 



JELLIES. 226 

jars. Quinoe jelly maybe made in die same mamier. If it is 
desired to have the apple jelly of a full pink tinge, let a itde 
ooduneal be put into it, and that will give it color. 

MBS. Webster's wine jbllt. 

Take of Cooper'B gelatine four ounces ; dissolve it i& three 
|';art8 of hot water ; add one half ounce of stick cinnamon, the 
Juice of two, and the peel of one lemon, one and one half pounds 
»f pure white sugar ; let it all come to a boil slowly, then add a 
gill of Maderia wine and let it simmer a while longer ; then strain 
it twice through a jelly bag, and set it to cool ; the extract of saf- 
fix>n colors it beautifully. 

CRAB APPLE JELLT. 

illl your preserving kettle with apples ; then cover with water. 
Boil until they are very soft. Drain the water off through a doth, 
and add to each pint of the water, one pound of white sugar. 
Let the water come to a boil, before adding the sugar. Then boil 
five minutes. Turn off into glasses, or small jars, and when cold 
cover with thick paper. 

CIDER JELLT. 

Boil new cider to the consistency of syrup, adding a pound of 
white sugar to a gallon of cider. Skim it. Let it cool, and it will 
be a beautiful clear jelly« very nice to make drink for the sick or 
weU. 

CUBRANT JELLT. 

Fill a iar with currants, and place it in a kettle of boiling water 
When the juice is expelled, strain through a cloth, and to every 
pint add a pound of white sugar. Boil ten minutes, skimming til] 
it is quite dear. Black currant or grape jelly can be made in the 
same way. 

QITINCB JELLT. 

If quinces are high a jelly may be made of the peels and oorea, 
but if the fruit is plenty, boil the whole. Allow one quart d 
wjit«r to ten pounds of quince. Cover the fruit and boil until t«D 



22d HBLUSS. 

der; then pour them into a jelly bag without pressing, and leC 
them drain into an earthen dish, no matter if until the next morn- 
ing. Allow a pound of the best white sugar for every pint of 
j\U09. Place the syrup on the fire in a preserving kettle ; as soon 
as it De«,omes hot, stir in the sugar, boil a few moments ; and pot 
h in mouids. 

BLACKBKRRT JXLLT. 

BoO thfc iH^rry a few moments, then strain it and add one pound 
d flogar to oue quart of juice. Boil it till it becomes a jelly. 

WIKB JKLLY, 

To one pint oi wine add one ounce of isinglass, half a pound oi 
iogar, and spice tu your taste. 

BICS JBLLl. 

Take quarter of a pound of rice flour, and half a pound of loai 
sugar, boil them in a quart of water ; when they become a glutin- 
ous mass strain off the jelly, add wine or lemon juice and let H 
oooL 

TAFIOGA JXIXT. 

Take four table-spoonsful of tapioca, rinse it thoroughly, thea 
soak it five hours in cold water enough to cover it. Set a pint of 
cold water on the fire, when it boils, mash and stir up the tapioca 
that is in the water, and mix it with the* boiling water. Let the 
whole simmer gently, with a stick of cinnamon or mace. When 
thick and clear, mix two table-spoonsful of white sugar with half 
a table-spoonful of lemon juice, and a glass of white wine — stir it 
into the jelly ; if not sweet enough, add more sugar, and turn th^ 
jelly into cups. 

JELLT FROM OKLATINB. 

• 

To make two quarts, take a two ounce package of the gelatine 
and soak for one hour in a pint of cold water ; add to this one and 
one-half pounds of sugar, the juice of four lemons, some orange 
peel, stick cinnamon or other flavoring ; when the gelatine is thor- 
oughly soaked, pour on three pints of boiling water and strain ini' 



me&tely through a jell} bag or coarse toweling , next poar into 
moulds and set aside to cool ; in warm weather use a little more 
gelatine 

GBAMBJEIIRT JKLLT. 

This is made like currant jelly, but it is hardly worth while to 
make it to keep, when it is so easily made fresh all through the 
winter. 

y 
SAGO JKLLT. 

A tea-cupful of sago, boiled in three pints and a half of water 
tin ready. When cold, add half a pint of raspberry syrup. Pour 
it into a shape which has been rinsed in cold water, and let it stand 
until it is sufficiently set to turn out well. When dished, pour a 
little cream round it, if preferred. 

lOEDLAR JELLT. 

Take medlars when they are ripe (i. e. when eatable) and put 
them into a preserving pan with as much water as will cover 
them ; simmer slowly until they become a pulp, then strain through 
a thin jelly bii^, and to every pint of juice add a qurrter of a 
pound lump sugar. Boil for an hour and pour into jars ; when 
cold it wiU be a stiff jelly. Medlar jelly made from this recipe^ 
in some degree resembles Guava jelly. It makes a very good ad- 
dition to a winter dessert. 

CALF^S FKBT J1ELLT. 

Take well cleaned calf^s feet, put one quart of water to four calf's 
feet, and boil until reduced to one quart ; then strain, and when 
cx>ld, take off the top. In taking out the jelly, avoid the settlings. 
To the quart, put half a pound of sugar, the juice of two lemons, 
and clarify this with the whites of two eggs, boil all together a few 
moments and strain it through a cloth. 

GRAFB JKLLT 

Take garden grapes before they are fully ripe, pick them, and 
boil gently with a little water, or small cupful, until the piece flows 
iVeely, and the pulp is dissolved. Strain throgh a thii^ Swiss mua* 



228 jfcLUBs. 

lin hag, pressing the pulp through, and boil ag&i'n for fifteen mill- 
iit«B before adding the sugar, a pound of loaf sugar, to erei? pint 
Doi] with tile augar fifteen minutes longer, taking off any akum tbal 
may rise. Put in moulds or glasses, and corer with egg pa[ier. 
Wild grapea will make jelly, but aot lo firm aa the cultivated uifli 



FRESH FRUITS. 



8TRAWBEBRIBS AND CREAM. 

Pick your strawberries over carefully ; if tbej are lusty, wash 
tihem, by pouring water over them through a colander. Arrange 
them in a glass dish, sprinkling a thick layer of powdered sugar 
over them when it is half full, and another on the top ; sugar them 
only a few minutes before they are to be eaten, and cover with 
cream or condensed milk, partially diluted, when serving. [See 
page 186, 187.] 

FBACHBfl. 

Peel fine juicy rareripe peaches, cut them up, cover thicUy with 
powdered 4ugar, and serve with cream, or without. 

HUCKLEBERRIB8. 

Some people like these without sugar, the best way therefore is 
to pick them carefully, and put them on the table in a glass dish, 
flanked by a bowl of powdered sugar, and a pitcher of milk, and 
let every one suit his or her taste. They are delicious eaten in a 
bowl with bread and milk, and in this way, constitute an excellent 
rammer morning, or mid-day meal. 

BLACKBBRRIES. 

These are best without milk, and may be sugared either before 
or after putting on the table. Plenty of white powdered sugar if 
necessary, and a little lemon juice dropped upon the sugar is aa 
improvement. 

WHITIE AND RED CURRANTS. 

Pick them large, and fresh from the stems, and put them either 
together, or separate into glass dishes ; cover then thickly with white 



280 VBBSH VBUIT. 

pundered sugar an hoar before thej are wanted, and serre 
sogar in a glass bowl. Mixed white and red cnrrants make a yerj 
pretty dish, and with plenty of sugar are delidous to eat with 
castard. 

CURRANTS AND HUCKUEBIERRIIBS. 

Red .mrrants, and huckleberries mixed, make a delightful and 
rafrcsLmg dish, the sugar should be sprinkled through them hail 
an hour before they are eaten, served with milk, or cream. An 
excellent breakfast dish * the currants just imparting to the huckle- 
berries the piquant taste that they lack. 

CURRANTS AND RASFBBRRIB8. 

These are excellent mixed, and eaten in the same way, monk 
finer to our taste than raspberries alone, although in the absence 
of ourrants, no one would object to raspberries, whidi are tfaa 
most delicate of all fruit, and are served precisely like strawber- 
ries. 

CHERRIBS. 

These are less desirable than other small fruit, uncooked^ and ara 
liable to be infected with worms. White hearts, fine and smooth, 
pitied, or only sprinkled whole, with powdered sugar, an honvevar, 



YEAST, BREAD, BISCUITS, Etc. 



TXA0T. 

Take twelve lai^ potatoes, pare and grate them; have two 
ringle nandsful of hops boiled .in one quart of water ; strain upon 
the potatoes ; set the pan on the stove, and stir till it scalds ; take 
off, and add one table-spoonful of brown sugar, one tea-spoonful 
of ginger ; when cool, add half a pint of good brewer^s yeast if it 
can be got, Jf not, take hop or cake yeast to start with, the flour 
will soon work out. This is always ready, does not sour quickly, 
and will keep two months in a cool place. without needing soda* 
It should be put into a half gallon jug, corked, and tied down and 
kept in a cool place. One tea-cupful will raise two large loavef 
of bread. 

CONNECTICUT YEAST. 

Put a handfhl of hops in a bag, boil in two quarts of water with 
five pared potatoes ; when done, sift the potatoes, put with them 
in a pan one table-spoonful of flour, half cup of sugar, half cup of 
salt ; pour on this the boiling hop water. When sufficiently cool, 
add yeast enough to ferment it well, then put it in a jug, cork tight, 
keep in a cool place. 

AN EXCELLENT TSAST. 

Boil four good sized potatoes, mash or sift fine, then add one 
half cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup of salt, one quart of boil- 
ing water, then put in one pint of cold water and a cup of old 
yeast ; cover and rise over night ; it will then be fit to use ; one 
gill is sufficient for three pints of flour. 

POTATO YEAST. 

This does not keep long, but it is veiy nice to use for anything 
'which requires raiting. It is made by smoothly mj^iliing a dosen 



>•■« 



282 TXABT, BBEAD, BISCDlTSt XTa 

large, mealj, boiled pot&loea, into which mix a luge ttaitdfiil of 
white floDr and a little salt. Stir in a tea-cup of baker's yeast to 
make it a batter. When it i> raised up light, bottle aod eoA it 
tight and put it in a cool place. It may be used without any feai 
of making bread or biscuit bitter, as is sometimea tbe case witii 
bop yeast. 

TKIST (Una. 
Stir light fresh hop yeast into Indian meal nntS it become* tha 
oonaistencj of dongh. Make this into thin cakes, and dry <hi a 
board in the oven, or where there is son, and a current of ur. 
Turn twice a day, until thoroughly dried, and then put them m % 
bag and hang in a cool, dry place. Hiej keep good a long time. 



For about three loaves of bread, tbe night before baking, bake 
a pint of sifted flour, put it into a pan, sprinkle on two tea-spoon»- 
fuli of cold water ; then pour on it very gradually, stirring out the 
lumps carefully as tbe flour becomes wetted, a quart of boiling wa- 
ter. Let it stand and get nearly cold, and then add half a pint of 
potato yeast, mixing it in thoroughly. Let it stand in the room, 
not where it is too warm, over night, in the morning have ready 
sufficient sifled flour in the tray, then moke a pint of thin com- 
meal rouah, clear and free from lumps, set it away till it cools, then 
pour it in a hole made in tbe middle of tbe flour. Four in also the 
yeast batter instead of wetting, and mix the whole into dough. 
Knead it and set it away (o rise, being very careful to keep it an 
equal temperature the whole time. When light mold itinto loaves; 
let it stand ten or fifteen minutes In a warm place, theo bake 
about an hour, or until done ^* -k^^u ««. k» »,.j».k.>.„j — .* u 
ts just as important that it i 
mou error that oveinloDe bi 
and hard Ihuy can be moii 
the oven with one or twt 
thicknesses of wet cloth w 
indigestible. In making th 
aized potatoes, bcnled to a 
■joay bt added to it. 



TXAST, BREAD, BISCUIT, BTCb 288 



BBXAD. — 3. 

All eMier way of making breads is to heat two bricks to out 
bnndred degrees or more, and place the pan yon make the bread m« 
on them. Put in the flour and salt ; make for three loaves, a pint 
of com meal mush, free from lumps ; set it away to cool ; mix it 
in the flour with a tea-cup of potato yeast, and make the whole in- 
to dough with lukewarm water ; the mixing and kneading all 
being done on the hot bricks. Have well-greased tins, divide the 
iough into them, set them to rise on the hot bricks by the stove, 
with a piece of carpet over the bricks to moderate the heat, and 
cover them well with woolens. Let it rise about two houiv, then 
bake in a steady oven. 

OSN1EILLL RULES. 

Generally in making bread, one quart of wetting, either of milk 
or water, is sufficient for five quarts of flour or meal. Ten quarts 
of flour or meal will make four loaves of about three and a half 
pounds each, to be baked in quart pans. Water mixed with flour 
or meal should be about blood warm. When yeast is used, it 
should be well stirred and ^diluted with lukewarm water before 
being added to the flour. • 

RTB AND INDIAK BREAD 

The proportions of rye and com meal used, may be varied ac- 
cording to the taste. If the largest proportion of rye is used, 
make the dough stiff; if the largest proportion of com meal, make 
the dough softer. The greater the proportion of com meal, the 
longer the bread requires baking. The best way to mix the dough 
is to put the com meal into a glazed earthen pan ; sprinkle salt over 
it, pour on boiling water, work it till thoroughly wet, and when 
about milk-warm add the lye flour with the yeast, an4 as much 
more warm, but not hot water, as is required. Work the dough 
until stiff, but not as stiff as flour dough. Put it then in a deep 
greased pan, put your hand in warm water and pat down the top, 
•et it to rise in a warm place by the stove in winter, but in the sun 
in fommer. When it begins to crack on the top, which will be is 
■n hoar or an hour and a half, put in a well heated oven. Ta 



284 TXAST, BBSAD, BISCUITS, STC. 

make the bread two thirds of com meal, take four quarts of sifted 
com meal, sprinkle a table-spooDful of salt oyer it, pour oyer it 
two quarts of boiling water, as directed aboye ; when lukewarm 
add two quarts of rye meal, half a pint of liyely jeast mixed in a 
pint of warm water ,-^add more warm water if necessary. Bake 
two or three hours. This makes a loaf weighing seyen or eight 
pounds. 

OBAHAM BBJEAD. 

Make a batter of Graham flour in the ordinary way, but mix It 
rather thin. Let it rise, diyide the loayes into tins just as soon as 
it is light, for it becomes sour quicker than bolted flour ; bake an 
hour and a quarter, or an hour and a half, according to the size of 
the loaf. A little molasses can be added to the batter it' desired. 

SWEBT BROWK BREAD. 

One quart of rye flour, two quarts of Indian meal, one pint oi 
Graham flour, all fresh, half a tea-cupful of molasses or brown su- 
gar, half a pint of potato yeast, and salt. Mix into as stiff a 
dough as can be stirred with a spoon, using warm water for wet- 
ting. Let it rise seyeral hours or oyer night, then bake fiye or six 
hours. 

RIGB FLOUR BRXAB. — 1. 

Boil a pint of rice sofl;, add a pint of cream, then three quarts 
of rice flour; put it to rise in a tin or earthen yessel until it has 
risen sufficient; diyide it into three parts, and bake it as other 
bread, and you will haye three large lofiyes ; or scald the flour, 
and when it is cold mix 'iilf wheat flour or com. Raised with 
leayen in the usual way. 

RICB FLOUR BREAD. — 2. 

One quart of rice flour ; make it into a stiff pap by wetting wHh 
warm water, not so hot as to make it lumpy ; when well wet, add 
boiling hot water» as much as two or three quarts ; stir it oontiii- 
ually until it boils ; when it cools, put in half a pint of yeast and a 
little salt ; knead in as much wheat flour as will make it a proper 
i5)iigh for bread ; put it to rise, and when risen, add a little mor9 



TBAST, B&BAB, BlSCIHTS, STa 235 

wiieat flour. Let it stand in a warm place half an hour, and bakt 
it. This same mixture, only made thinner, and baked in ringSi 
makes excellent muffins. 

m^IST RICK BREAD. 

In three quarts of cold milk and water, mix a pint and a hall 
of ground rice. It will be a thin gruel ; boil it three or four min- 
utes, and then stir in Graham flour until it is too stiff to stir with 
a spoon. Let it become lukewarm, add two gills, of yeast and 
salt ; let it rise, and bake it an hour. 

APPLE BRKAD 

Mix the pulp from a dozen good-flavored, boiled apples, with 
twice its quantity of wheat flour, or Graham flour; add salt, jeaat, 
and bake as usual. 

FULLED BREAD. 

Take the crumb out of a hot loaf of bread, and diyide it into 
rocky looking pieces, by pulling it to pieces quickly with the fin- 
gers of both hands ; place these pieces on a baking tin, lined with 
paper, and bake them over again to a light-brown color. Do them 
in a quick oven to ensure tJieir being very crisp. 

PIEGBS OF BREAD. 

Th^se need not be thrown away. Rich bread puddings may be 
made of them ; they may be made into crumb cakes, or dressing 
for any kind of meat that can be stuffed, is made of softened crusts, 
butter, herbs, and a beaten e^. In the summer when bread becomes 
mouldy by keeping, the pieces that cannot be used immediately, can 
be dried on tins in the oven and used pounded for puddings, or 
crumb cakes, or to dress a ham, as cracker crumbs. Some have a 
small board on which to slice bread, and brush the crumbs firom 
it mto a box. It ia^easier to save them than to scatter them ofw 
the table or floor. 

SHORT CAKE. 

IM into a basin twelve ounces of flour, and six ounces of but 
ter, or half the quantity if sufficient for your purpose ; take off 



286 TBAST BSBAB, BISCUIT, BXa 

EtUe bits of butter with your fingers and rub iboroaghly into tba 
floor; then moisten it with as little water as possible, only just 
enough to hold the paste together, as the less water used the short- 
er the crust will be. Boll out the paste upon a smooth board, of 
the desired thickness. This quantity is sufficient for the cover of 
two fruit tarts. While making pastry always endeavor to be in i 
oool phice in summer, and a moderately warm one in winter; a« 
cold water in summer, and water a little warm in winter. 

RUSKS. 

Three pints of flour, one pint of sugar, a quarter of a pound of 
batter rubbed in the flour, one table-spoonful of yeast, one pint of 
warm milk. Set a sponge and put all in Mix soft. This ii 
good for dooghnuts. 

BAKED BATTER. 

Four pints of cold milk, three table-spoonsftd of flour, two 
crackers pounded fine, a small piece of butter, table-spoonfiil of 
sugar, two eggs, a little salt to be eaten with butter and white su- 
gar. Flavor with lemon. 

RTE DROP CAKES. 

Mix togetoer one quart of milk, two beaten eggs, a piece of but- 
ter as large as an egg, two tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar, one 
tea-spoonful of soda, half a tea-cup of white sugar, and sufficient 
rye meal to make a thick batter. Bake half an hour. 

RICE BISCUIT. 

Mix with warm water, a tea^cup of boiled rice, two pounds of 
lour, two spoonsful of yeast; let it rise, and bake it. 

HOE CAKES. 

First scald a quart of Indian meal in enough water to make a 
thick batter; mix in two spoonsful of butter, a tea-spoonful of. 
soda, and two tea-spoonsful of salt. Bake about half an hour in a 
battered pan. 

FANNT^S BREAKFAST CAKES 

In one quart of thick sour milk, stir Graham flour, to make a 



TIBA8T, BBSAD, BIBOtnT, BTa 287 

Chick batter, add a little salt, a heaping tea-spoon of soda, and a 
ISMpoon of melted butter. Make it into drop cakes, and bake. 

CORK CRBAM OAKB. 

Take a quart of milk, or buttermilk, and put a sour thick cream 
loized with sufficient bi-carbonate of soda to sweeten it, add com 
mtjd enough to the milk and cream to thicken it to the consistency 
of pound cake, stirring it in ; put it an inch thick in floured paiiiy 
and bake it in a quick oven. 

MBB, D.^8 TBA BI80UIT. 

Six tumblers ^our, one half pound butter, three tumblers milk* 
two tearspoonsfbl cream tartar, one half tea-spoonfbl soda; mix 
•oft, bake quick. 

CORN BBMAD. 

One pint of sour milk, one pint of com meal, one pint of WbiU 
flour, two even tea-spoonsful of soda, one tea-cupful of molasses 
or brown sugar, one large tea-spoonful of salt ; bake an hour. It 
is nice and warm for dinner, and moist and toothsome when cold. 
Grood Indian cake is made with buttermilk or sour milk, with a little 
cream or butter rubbed on the meat, and a tea-spoonful of sal- 
eratus. 

BSBAKFABT JOHNlTr OAXB. 

Mix over night six or eight table-spoonsful of fine yellow Indian 
meal, with two of wheat flour, one of com starch, a tea-spoonfbl 
of salt, and water enough to wet thoroughly— milk is better, but 
IS not essential. In the morning add one egg, a tea-spoonful of 
soda, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, and another of melted but- 
ter; beat up well, and bake immediately. This is good enough 
for '' company." 

BBXAXFA0T OOBN GAKB. 

Three cups of meal, and half a cup of flour, mixed with bntter- 
milk« or sweet milk, and water, over night, and left standing. la 
the morning add a large tea-spoonful of soda, a table-spoonfhl of 
sugar, or molasses, and as much melted butter, together with a lit* 



288 TXUT, BSSAD, BlSCtnT, BTa 

the salt. Bake an hoar. It is Teiy nice. A little cold hominy, of 
farina, mixed smoothlj with the meal, improves com cake niAcMil 
eggs, wonderfhUy. 

OOmf MBAL WAFFLES. 

IVo cggSy yolks well beaten, one table-spoon of butter, one of 
tlour, one tea-spoon of salt, one pint of sweet milk, one pint of 
meal twice sifted, half tea-spoon of soda ; add last the whites of tiM 
eggs well beaten. 

WBOTBRK JOHNNY OAXB. 

One quart of milk, three eggs, hah cup of sugar or molasses, 
tea-spoonful of saleratus, a cup of wheat flour, thicken with In- 
dian meal to a batter. Bake in shallow pans. 

BUTTERBOLX BBBAKFAST CAKES. 

' A quart of Graham flour, a piece of butter as big as a walnnt, m 
tea-spoon of salt, a tea-spoon of soda, and sufficient good butter. 
Add enough milk to mix to the consistency of cup cake. Drop the 
batter by the large spoonfhl on a buttered pan, and bake quick. 
They will puff right up, and be ready for the table in fifteen min- 
utes. 

BICE FUFFS. 

To a pint of flour put boiling water or milk sufficient to make a 
batter. When it is cold beat four eggs and put in, together with 
a tea-spoonful of salt. Drop this misture by the large spoonfiil 
into hot fat. 

BICE FLOUB PUFFS. 

To a pint of the flour, add a tea-spoonful of salt, a pint of boil- 
ing water; beat up four eggs, stir them well together, put from 
two to three spoonsful of lard in a pan, make it boiling hot» and 
fry as yen do common fritters. 

BICB FLOUB CAKES. 

Take a pint of soft-boiled rice, half a pint of milk and water, to 
which add twelve spoonsful of rice flour. Divide it into smafl 
oakes, and bake in a brick oven. 



TXABT, BBBAD, BISCUIT, BTO. 289 



OAT OAKB. 

Molt half an ounce of salt butter or lard, in a pint of boilii 
water, and haying put a pound of oat meal into a basin, pour the 
water, quite boiling, upon it. Stir it as quickly as possible into 
a dough. Turn this out on a baking plate and roll it out until it 
|S as thin as it can be to hold together, then cut it out into shape 
jf small round cakes. Make these firm by placing them oyer the 
fire on a griddle (a gridiron of fine wire bars) for a yery short 
lime, and afterwards toast them on each side alternately before 
the fire until they become quite crisp. A simpler way is to make 
a thick paste of coarse oat meal and water, knead it, spread it thin» 
lay it on a griddle oyer the fire, turn and brown on both sides. 

UEIGHT 8TRBBT CRUMPETS. 

Mix a quart of warm milk, a tea-spoonful of sugar, and a gill 
of potato yeast, with sufficient flour or meal to make a rather 
thick batter. When light add a tea-cupful of sweet cream, let it 
rise twenty minutes, and bake it as muffins or in cups. 

FLOUR AND POTATO ROLLS. 

Boil and dry one pound of potatoes, mix them with two ounces 
of sweet cream and half a pint of milk, and rub them through a 
wire sieye into a pound and a half of flour. Mix a gill more of 
warm milk with a little yeast, and add to the flour. Make into 
dough, let it rise before the Gre^ form into rolls, and bake quickly. 

RICE WAFFLES. 

Take a large coffee^up of well-boiled rice, stir in two eggs and 
a large table-spoonful of com starch ; add a tea-spoonful of salt, a 
quart of milk, a table-spoonful of melted butter, and " self-raising ^ 
flour enough to make a thick batter. If the flour is not *' selA 
vaising,^ put in a tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, and half of 
soda. See that your waffle-irons are well heated and greased. 

GREEN CORN CAKES. 

Mix a pint of grated green com with a tea- cup of flour, half a 
teaponp of milk, half a tea-cup of melted butter, one egg, a tea- 



240 TXABT, BBSAD, BISCUIT, XTa 

spoon of salt, and a little pepper. Drop this mixture on a battered 
pan by the spoonful, and bake or fry for ten or fifteen minutea. 
They are very nice for breakfast. 

BUTTKR GAKBS FOB TBI. 

To half a pint of milk, stir in- two well-beaten ^gs, a tea-cop 
of cream, half a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in the cream, 
a little salt, a table-spoonful of melted butter, and sufficient sifted 
flour to make a thick batter. Drop it in thin round cakes on a 
buttered pan or griddle, turn them while baking, and bake uotQ 
browned. Send to table piled on a plate with a litUe batter on 
each. 

SODA, BISCUIT. 

Stir into one quart of flour two tea-spoonsful of cream tartar, 
one tea-spoonful of salt ; dissolve in three gills of new milk a tea- 
spoonful of soda ; stir it into the flour quickly, pour all on the 
board, roll out, cut in small circular cakes, bake in a quick OTen. 

ENGLISH BBBAKFAST CAKES. 

Warm a pint of milk and four ounces of good butter till luke- 
warm ; add two beaten eggs, three ounces of sugar and two table- 
spoonsful of yeast ; raise the flour, work the dough, using more 
flour if necessary ; divide into cakes, and let them rise for three 
quarters of an hour and bake them in buttered tins. When done, 
cut those to be used into slices, butter on each side and warm them 
a minute, serving them hot. In using the remainder for anothei 
meal, they may be warmed and buttered in the same way. 

FRENCH R0LL9. 

Warm a pint of new milk, melt two large spoonsful of butter, 
add a littie salt. When cool, sifl in one pound of flour, one egg 
well beaten, one spoonful of yeast. Beat these well together, but 
avoid kneading. When risen, form it into rolls, handling as UttU 
is possible. Bake on tins, and Aerve. 

GRAHAM BISCUIT. — 1. 

These are quickly made, and very nice for breakfiist. Take 9 



TKA8T, BBBAB, BISCTTIT, VtC 241 

qvart of Graham or unbolted flour and mix it to the consistency 
of drop cake with butter^milk, an even tea-spoonful of soda and a 
little salt ; add a table-spoonful of melted butter, and drop the 
mixture on a shallow pan. Bake in a quick oven fifteen or twentjr 
minutea. 

COtAHAM BISCUIT. — 2. 

'Mix together as for bread one quart of Graham meal» two 
spoonsful of molasses, one tea-spoonfid of lard, two spoonsful of 
wheat flour, half a cup of yeast, and salt. Let it stand all night 
to rise, and in the morning put it in muffin rings ; let them stand 
half an hour, and then bake. 

ROFT WAJTLBB. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, one quarter pound of batter, 
yeast ; to be made as thin as pancakes. 

MUFFINS. — 1. 

Mix a quart of wheat flour with half a tea-cupful of potato yeast, 
two beaten eggs, a heaping tea-spoonful of salt, a pint and a half 
of luke-warm milk, and two table-spoonsful of melted butter ; set 
to rise, and when very light turn into well-buttered muffin rings, 
and bake a clear, light brown. 

liUJTFJLMS.— 2. 

Two coffee-cups of milk, three of flour, two eggs, one table* 
spoon of butter, two tea-spoonsful cream of tartar, one of soda. 
Take half your milk, half your flour, eggs, salt, butter, and cream 
of tartar; beat well until smooth, then add by degrees the rest of 
the milk and flour, and lastly the soda, mixed with a little flour. 

HOT CROSS BUZrS. (OOOD FRIDAT.) 

Take two pounds of flour well dried, rub in half a pound of 
batter, add four eggs, four spoonsful of yeast, and as much new 
milk as will make it into a soft dough. Put in while mixing, half 
a pound of powdered sugar, and half an ounce of caraway seeds. 
Set it l^ the fire to rise, and when it is light, divide it into tha 

11 



242 TXABT, BBBAB, BISfJUIT, STC. 

propAT size for buns. Make a cross upon each, and glaze the tof 
witfi white of egg, and sugar. 

DRY TOAST. 

Dry bread well and evenly toasted, without being bamed» is 
the best food that can be taken for very acid and irritable stom- 
ftchs. Nice, fresh-sliced bread toasted, may be well spread with 
butter and served immediately as a good breakfast dish. Bread 
a little soured or over fermented is improved, though not cured, 
by toasting. 

DIP TOAST. 

Toast bread, and dip it auicklv into boiling water ; spread it 
with plenty of butter, and serve immediately, or let it stand in the 
oven if required to wait. 

CKEAM TOAST. 

Toast slices of stale bread on both sides, and pour on them 
while hot, sweet cream diluted by an equal quantity of scalded 



TEDS FAMILY OF GRIDDLE CAKES. 

BUCKWHBAT CAKES. 

Take equal quantities of buckwheat, Indian meal and Graliain 
flour, to make one quart, add half a cup of new yeast, a tea^spoon- 
ful of saleratus, a little salt and enough good milk, or luke warn 
water to make a thick batter. Set it near the fire to r se, and 
when risen, cook them in a well buttered griddle. 

COMMON PANCAKBS. 

Mix together three spoonsful of flour, two beaten eggs and a 
little salt, stir in good milk by degrees, and fry them in boiling 
lard a light brown color. The eggs may be dispensed with, of 
reast or snow uf ed in their stead. 



YMABTj B&KAD, BISCUIT, BTa 248 



SHROVR TUESDAY PAKGAKB8. 



Four eggs, four table -spoonsful of flour, one pint of milk and 
pint of cream, or quart of milk, and table-spoonful of melted but- 
ler ; salt to taste, and add just before frying in hot lard, a quartei 
of a pound of currants. 



BRKAD ORIDDLB GAKBS. 



Take pieces of stale bread, soak them in water till quite soft, 
drain them and rub the bread to a pulp ; then add two or three 
beaten eggs and sufficient milk to make a thick batter, and cook 
them iii the griddle. 



SODA OBIDDLB GAKBS 

Stir together in one pint of milk, one tea-spoonful of soda, two 
tea-spoonsful of cream of tartar, sufficient flour to make a thick 
batter, and fry them on the griddle. 

BICE CAKES. 

To one tea-cupful of cold boiled rice, put one of flour, one egg 
one table-spoonful of com starch, tea-spoonful of salt, and sour 
milk, or buttermilk, enough to make a batter ; mix smoothly, and 
at the last add a tea-spoonful of soda and a little melted butter ; 
bake immediately. If sweet milk is used, put in rather less soda 
and double the same quantity of cream of tartar. Cold boiled 
hominy can be used in the same way ; these are an excellent Spring 
substitute for buckwheat cakes. ^ 

FLANNEL CAKES. 

Put two ounces of butter into a pint of hot milk, let it melt ; 
add then a pint of cold milk, four beaten eggs, a tea-spoonful of 
•alt, two table-spoonsful of yeast, and sufficient flour to make a ptifl 
batter. Set it in a warm phtce three hours to rise, then fiy on the 
griddle. 

CBXAH PANCAKES. 

Mix the yolks of two eggs with half a pint of cream, and two 
ounces of sugar, fty them on the griddle thin, and serve hot, with 
grated sugar oyer them 



244 TBA8T, BBEAD, BISOUIT, BTa 



BOONOMICAL GRTODLB 0AKB8. 

A capital and economical way of making griddle oakes, is to keep 
A stone jar or pitcher, into which put all the scraps, cold hominy, 
rice, mashed potato, small pieces of bread, in short ever^rthing 
M<ablo which is clean and good, and can be reduced to a pulp. 
Into the mixture also put any stray drops of milk that may be left, 
aud when a pint, or more, or less, according to the size of the 
fiimily, has • accumulated, mix it with flour into a batter, sweetoi 
with a tea-spoon of bi-carbonate of soda, or refined saleratus, and 
reduce still further if necessary, with a little sweet milk. These 
cakes will be found delicious, and can be made without any eggv> 
by putting in one or two table-spoonsful of maizena. 

IKDIAN OREDDLB CAKBS. — 1. 

Mix together one pint of Indian meal, one cup of flour, a table- 
spoonful of molasses, a tea-spoonful of saleratus, a little salt and 
ginger, and sufficient sour milk to make a stiff batter. Bake on 
the griddle. 

INDIAN GRIDDLB CAIOSS. — 2. 

In a quart of warm milk mix a quart of Indian meal, a handful 
of wheat flour, a tea-spoonful of salt and two tea-spoonsful of 
yeast, and two or three beaten eggs. Let it rise and bake on the 
griddle. If the batter should sour, dissolve a tittle saleratus in 
lukewarm water, stir it in the batter and let it stand half an hour 
before using. 

INDIAN ORIDDLB CAKBS. — 3. 

Scald at night half the quantity of meal to be used ; mix the 
other half with cold water until it is thick batter ; add a little salt 
and set it to rise without yeast. This will make light, crisp cakes 
in the morning. The skimmings of boiled meat is the best to fiy 
them with. Fry slowly. 

BTB GRIDDLE CAKES. 

One quart of sweet milk, two eggs one-half tea-spoon laleraliUi 
Pinch of salt, enough lye flour to make batter. 



TBABT, BREAD, BISOUIT, XTa 246 



tacm FLOUR OAKKS UMM BUCKWHXAT OAXEB. 

Mix one quarter of wheat flour to throe quarters of superfine 
lioe flour, and raise it as buckwheat flour. Bake it like buckwheat 
cakes. 

TOBiATO aBIDDLB OAXBa. 

Cover sliced ripe tomatoes with a nice batter, and &j them oa 
the griddle. 

SCOTCH PANCAKES. 

Mix together four table-spoonsful of sifted flour and four well 
beaten eggs ; after these are stirred together awhile, add gradually 
a pint of milk, season with a little salt and nutmeg. Put a shallow 
frying pan with a small piece of butter in it, on the fire, and pour 
into it half a tea-cup of batter. Turn the pan round over the 
fire for a minute or two, then by taking it off the fire and holding 
it upright in front of the bars it will rise immediately. When it 
is done, cut the edges, sprinkle with sugar, and roll up. 

THE POUOHKBBPSIB SEER^S INDIAN BANNOCK. 

One pint of com meal, one quart of milk, boil one pint of the 
milk, and scald the meal thoroughly. Put iu a tea-spoon of salt, 
a table-spoon of melted butter, three well -beaten eggs, and thin 
batf er with the cold milk. Bake brown in shallow pans. 



BOILED FARINACEOUS DISHES. 

HOMINT AND FARINA. 

As a change firora griddle cakes, housekeepers will find a disb 
of boiled hominy, or farina, very palatable, and especially health- 
Ad for children. Farina should be mixed thin, about like moal 
mush, and boiled as long, say an hour. Hominy should be soaked 
m cold water over night, and boiled for an hour, with a little salt, 
in the morning. It is eaten with sugar and milk, or batter and 
iogar. It is a reliable breakfast dish the year round. 



246 TBAfi^, BREAD, BI80UIT, BXa 



HOBOMY GAKBS. 

Mix with cold hominy an equal quantity of white flour until per* 
fectly smooth ; add a tea-spoon of salt, and thin off with butter-milk, 
mto part of which a tea-spoon of soda has been dissolved ; when 
of the consistency of griddle cakes, add a dessert-spoon of melted 
Imtter, and bake as usual ; with maple syrup they are delicious, 
and the absence of eggs will not be noticed. 

aAMP. 

Soak a quart of cracked Indian com, over night, and pat it on 
the fire, first thing after breakfast, with three pounds of beef, not 
too salt, and one of pork. Cover with water, and let it cook slow- 
ly fire hours, being very careful not to let it bum. 

HASTY FUDDINa 

Boil water, mix in a little salt, and then stir in gradually so as 
to prevent lumping, sufficient com meal to thicken it. It should 
boil at least an hour, and may be eaten with milk, cream and su- 
gar, or butter and syrup, or sugar. 

RYE MEAL SfUSH. 

Stir gradually in boiling water in which a little salt has beeo 
thrown, fresh-ground rye meal. Let it boil about an hour. 

INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 

Boil a quart of water in the saucepan, mix in cold water three 
table-spoonsful of Indian meal and half a table-spoonful of flour, 
pour in the boiling water gradually stirring all the time; boil 
twenty or twenty-fi\e minutes, stirring occasionally. Take it off 
and season sparingly with salt and nutmeg, and add if desired a 
ver)' little new milk ; for a very sick person, the nutmeg and milk, 
and oven the salt, may be omitted. Oat meal gmel may be made 
ir. the same way 

MILK PORRIDGE. 

Take half a pint of boiling water, mix a large spoonful of flour 
in a little oold water, stii* it into the water while it is boiling, and 



TSAST, BE&AD, BlSOtnt, BTC. 247 

V 

let it it boil fiyfteen minutes ; then add a tea-cupful of milk» a littk 
•alt, and giye it one boil. 

ENGUSH FRUMBTT 

Soak half a pint of wheat, and then boQ it gently for three ef 
four hours. Beat up an egg in a quart of milk, and mix with Jt, 
also a tea-cupful of raisins and currants, a little salt, nutmeg, oi 
cinnamon, and grated lemon peel. Boil all together for another 
quarter of an hour, and serve. If preferred thinner, more milk 
can be added. 

OLD FASHIONED HULLED CORN. 

Shell a dozen years of ripe, dry com, put it in an iron kettle 
and cover with cold water ; put in the corn a bag of two tea-cups- 
fiil of fresh wood ashes, and boil until the com looks yellow, and 
tastes strong of the alkali, then take out the bag and boil the com 
m the lye over an hour, then poOr off the lye, add fresh water, and 
simmer until the com swells. If the hulls do not then come off 
by stirring, turn off the water and rub them off with a towel ; add 
more water and simmer for three or four hours, often stirring to 
keep it from burning ; when it swells out and becomes soft and 
white, add salt to liking and let all the water simmer away. Eat 
or cold with cream or milk. 



BREAKFAST. 



A great ywnetj of dkhes are mmecessary finr break&st, IniI 
that what 70a do haye, ib nioely cooked, and property served. Un- 
less sickness or some other drciimstance prevents, the mistress of 
the house should always add the finishing touches to the breakfiut 
room, and the breakfitst table. The most experienced servant will 
fail in producing just the right degree of light and sunlight, in 
getting rid of the last speck of dust, or the latest evidence of ashes, 
and never thinks at all of transferring a branch of rosebuds, and 
geranium from the garden to the mantel piece ; these belong to the 
gentler thought, and more refined instincts of the cultivated ladj, 
and such duties are not at all beneath the dignity of the highest in 
the land. 

That the dishes may be well-cooked, and weU served, they must 
be adapted to the other services required on that day. On wash- 
ing and ironing days, for instance, as little time, and as little of thv 
fire should be used as possible, and care should be taken to save 
interruption to the important, and principal business of the day. 

Broiled chicken, or warmed over chicken, and omeletts, are 
always nice breakfast dishes, but in cities the prices puts them out 
of the reach qf ordinary people, except on extraordinary occasions. 
The regular dishes, such as beefsteak, mutton chops, fish, broiled 
ham, eggs, and warmed over potatoes, are all understood, and in 
the different kinds and degrees, constitute the daily breakfiutt proba- 
bly, of half the world. 

There is a very important point however, to which little attention 
is paid, and that is fruit. ** Fruit,^^ siuth the old proverb, " is golden 
in the morning, silver at noon, and lead at night, '^ yet it is only at 
night, that in this country, we eat it at all, as part of a meal. Thii 
is wrong, firuit is a most valuable part of food, it cannot be too 



BBBAKFAST. 249 

highly estimated ; more fruit, with less saleratus, and rich greasy 
compounds, such as butter with meats, gravies, and the like, would 
take away the occupation of half the doctors, and reduce wonder< 
fully the sum total of dyspepsia and liver complaints. 

A distinguished physician has said that one or two tart Messina 
oranges eaten before breakfast during the three spring months > 
vould cure the worst obstinate bilious disorder ; but the cure would 
Bndoubtedly be as effectual if they were eaten at breakfast, and the 
nsual amount of pork and melted butter on hot cakes, redu(»d 
during that time. 

The rule should be to have fresh fruit on the table every morning, 
as long as it lasts, and then a preparation of dried, canned, or 
preserved fiuits, a small investment in Guava jelly ; and that India 
fruit, for breakfast, will not be thrown away, after your own stock 
is exhausted, and you begin to tire of apples, and the oommon 
dried varieties. 

A very valuable adjunct to the breakfast table is the tomato ; 
highly prized as it is, its admirable medicinal qualities are only just 
beginning to be discovered. Providentially, it is so cheap, and 
grows so readily and profusely, that the poorest person can lux- 
uriate in its excellence, as well as the richest, and derive all the 
more benefit from not being able to destroy its virtue with butter, 
and an excess of condiments. 

Tomatoes are an almost soveriegn cure for dyspepsia, and should 
be on the table, raw or cooked, the year round. Persons habituated 
to them, soon learn to love them m any form, sliced with a little 
pepper, salt, and vinegar, stewed, baked, or even fresh from the 
vines ; the least healthful and generally the least palatable mode of 
serving them, is sweetened, or cooked with sugar. 

Mush, hominy, wheaten grits, or some dish of that sort, should 
be frequently seen upon the breakfast table, such food is excellent 
for children, and soon becomes very palatable, and highly esteem- 
ed by grown persons. Moreover if it is not eaten when first boil- 
ed, it is not wasted ; it is just as good fried, or used as a basis for 
g;riddle cakes. 

In some families, warm soda biscuit for breakfast, is the regular 
thing; this is very hurtful. Good home-made bread, not quite 
firesh, is best. French bread, baked the day before, next best; 



260 BBBAKITAST. 

good baker^s twist, third best. For a change, warm com bread, 
or johnny cake may be made for breakfast, rice cakes, or waffles, 
and if biscuits, make them from the light dough mixed over night, 
shortened with a little butter. 

When the spring water-cresses come in, there should be thank 
fulness. Pile them up fresh, green, and crisp, upon a dish in the 
centre of the table, and eat them with new kid eggs boiled soft, 
•alt nice Graham bread, and sweet butter. This is a breakftal 
suited to liOnt, and fit for a Republican queen. 



BILL OF FARE FOR BREAKFAST. 

1. Broiled chicken, toast, omelette, and Gruaya jfXtj. 

d. Broiled mutton chops, stewed tomatoes, fried potatoes, and 
Graham drop biscuit. 

3. Broiled ham, com bread, sliced tomatoes, and toast, or bread. 

4. Fried ham and eggs, stewed i^ples, hominy, and home-made 
oread. 

« 

6 Broiled lamb chops, rice cakes, wanned over potatoes, and 
marmalade. 

6. Boiled No. 1 mackerel, potatoes wanned up with butter and 
milk, sliced tomatoes, and Johnny cake. 

7. Fresh eggs cooked soft, fried potatoes, bread, and stewed 
peaches. 

8. (Lent.) Soft boiled eggs, water-cresses, and Graham bxead 

9. Fried halibut, potatoes, salad, ani French bread. 

10. Beef hash, com bread stewed tomatoes, and toast. 



BREAKFAST. 261 

11. Wnced Y€al, toast, rice, waffles, and sliced oranges. 

12. Cold roast veal, fried potatoes, apple sance, and raised bif^ 

•uH. 

18. Broiled lamb chops, hominy cakes, tomatoes, twist bread. 

14. Indian slapjacks, pork chops cnt tlun, and fried brown 
fried apples, and Graham bread. 

15. (Easter Sunday Morning.) Fresh eggs boiled, Freneh 
bread, and Guava jelly. 

16. Broiled salmon, potatoes, baker^s twist, and stewed dier- 
ries. 

17. Broiled shad, fried hominy, potatoes, and salad of water- 
cresses. 

18. Fried Indian mash, ham broiled very thin, poached eggs. 

19. Broiled partridge, toast, rice cakes, and cranberry jelly. 

20. Soused shad, fried potatoes, boiled hominy, and butter-milk 
Graham biscuit. 

21. Broiled mackerel, fried mashed potato, and hoe cake. Plain 
lettuce or radishes. 

22. Sausage cakes seasoned with sage, potatoes boiled in their 
skins, and ** mixed ^ griddle cakes. 

28. Minced chicken, rice waffles, Ixnled eggs, potatoes warmed 
over in milk. 

24. Yeal cutlets, muffins, and fresh strawberries. 

26. Fresh mackerel, stewed gooseberries, potatoes, com breadt 



252 BBBAKFAST* 

26. Fried biue>fith, firied hominy, twist bread, hnddebeniei. 

27. Veal sweet-bread, toast, tomatoes sliced, potatoes, and 
fresh peaches. 

28. Fried calyes' liver, with parsley, and thin slices of baeon, lot 
de com cakes, Graham bread, and blackberries. 

29. Cold corned beef, cabbage diopped fine, and wanned orer 
with finegar and a little beef fiit. French bread, and boiled indian 
mush 

Birthday Breakfast. 

80. Broiled or fricaseed chicken, and cold boiled ham garnished, 
or chicken pie ornamented, fried potato balls, rice currant fritters, 
French bread, or biscuit, a dish of fresh, or canned fruit, and high 
glass dish of fruit, and flowers in centre. 

81. Nothing in the shape of beverages has been added, because 
all families follow their habits and traditions in this respect, and 
also with regard to butter, etc., and the addition of such accuf- 
lomed articles in every instance, would be entirely superflnons. 



COFFEE, TEA, Etc. 



COFFEE. 

It 18 better to buy whole coffee and grind it yourself. Let Jm 
coffee pot be clean and free from the smell of stale coffee. Grind 
sufficient coffee fresh for use at one time, then stir it about with 
the white and shell of an egg, mixing them thoroughly. Or an egg 
may be mixed with half a pound of ground coffee, which is to be 
U8<id as required, and the egg tends to preserve the aroma. Take 
a ^able-spoonful of coffee or less for each person, pour upon it as 
much boiling water as will be required, and boil it up as quickly 
as possible. Four out a tea-cupful and put it back again, or pour 
the whole backwards and forwards several times. Take it from the 
fire and pour half a tea-cupful of quite cold water into it and let it 
stand five minutes by the fire ; but do not let it boil again, before 
you transfer it to the coffee pot in which it is to be served. Do not 
shake it in doing this, as the egg shell and coffee powder will have 
settled at the bottom, and the liquid ought to be perfectly clear. 
A little isinglass is sometimes used instead of egg. Many insist 
thai it is quite unnecessary to use the egg at all. Loaf sugar and 
boiled milk should be served with it, allowing each person to suit 
their own taste. 

COFFEE CREAM. 

Some make coffee cream by boiling three cups of coffee after 
it is made, with a pint of cream and sugar to taste, until they ar« 
reduced nearly one half, and so serving it. 

DINNER COFFEE. 

Take pure Mocha coffee, one table-spoonfiil to each person, 
mix with egg and cold water, and boil perfectly clear. Serve 



254 OOFFJBJE, TEA, BTC 

withoat mOk, but with loaf sugar, or if 70a dioose with banA 
brandy, and sugar, in yerj small caps. 

COLD GOFFKB. 

Make a quart of good coffee, pour it off dear, and add to it a 
pint of new milk, a gill of cream, and enough loaf sugar to 
sweeten it. Set it back on the fire, and let it all come to a boil. 
This will be delicious cold, or it is good warmed up next day. 
fiotdes of such coffee are sometimes useful to take on a picnic 
Use the best lump, or coffee crushed sugar, for coffee, coarse brown 
•polls the flavor. 

CHOOOiATB (American). 

Procure the best chocolate, grate it, allowing two heainng table- 
spoonsful to a quart of mixed milk and water. Boil it fifteen 
minutes, taking off the scum as it rises, and serve with sugar and 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE (French). 

Break the chocolate in pieces, boil it in a little water, stirring all 
the time, then add double the quantity of milk, and allow that to 
boil also, stirring, but not skimming, until it has boiled up tliidk 
for several minutes. Add loaf sugar to taste, and serve with cream, 
or new milk to thin it off, if preferred. 

COCOA. 

To make good cocoa fix)m the nibs, it should be boiled fi>r three 
ir four hours, and strained when it is taken from the fire. Should 
any grease rise to the surface afler this it must be removed either 
with writing paper, or by skimming. Sufficient quantity of cocoa 
may be made at one time to last three or four days, as it will re- 
main perfectly good for that time, and should be merely boiled up 
when wanted and served with hot milk. In boiling, use a quart <^ 
cold water to a quarter of a pound of cocoa nibs, or vary according 
to taste. 

TEA. 

** Tea,^ as a meal is a lost institutiion m mitt of onr laige chws. 



COFFBE, TEA, BTC. 255 

Morels the pity, for it was the cosiest, and pleasantest meal of the 
day. Moreover, with it, has gone out early hours, and thrifty 
hahits attention to home duties, and love of home pleasures. The 
late bieakfasts, which are the rule now, and the six oVlock dinners, 
not only destroy health, but give the day to gossiping and visiting 
to shopping and the promenade, and afford an excuse for daily ex 
pensive lunches at fashionable restaurants, which make simple hooit 
(hi'e distasteful. 

'* Tea,^ in the old-fashioned sense, is still to be met with occas- 
ionally in the country, and who that has ever assisted in a pleasant 
family circle at that most enjoyable of all meals, but remembers it 
with a longing to experience it once again. The cosy table, the 
light delicate food, the hot, fragrant beverage in small cups, han- 
dled tenderly, as if with a due appreciation of their contents ; the 
leisure which all enjoy after the principal business of the day is over, 
-and the stimulus to lively and agreeable conversation, which the 
meal affords. 

But the tea itself must be good ; no luke warm infusion, no 
mere slop, by quantity of which you seek to make up for the qual- 
ity. One cup of really good, inspiring tea, is worth a gallon of 
the liquid which well-intentioned housewives sometimes pour out, 
with the assurance that it is not strong, and will not hurt you. The 
truth is, that the amount of liquid is a positive injury, while, what- 
ever of virtue the tea possessed, is drowned in it ; but there are 
persons who still insist upon their ancient right to three or four 
cups, and perhaps the less tea there is in these, the better. 

HOW TO MAKE TEA. 

Scald your tea-pot for six persons, put in three tea-spoonsful 
of best green tea, poiur a little boiling water upon it, and set it to 
steep. Put four jea-spoonsful of best black tea in a tin cup with s 
oover^ pour cold water upon it, cover it tight, and bring it to a quick 
boil ; let it boil a minute, and then add it to the green, which 
should only steep in boiling water, not boil. Fill up with the ne- 
cessar} quantity of boiling water, and it is ready for the table. 

It is not known by many personH, that the Oolong and other 
black teas require boiling, in order to extract their strength and 
viitue. Those who mourn over poor, weak, modem tea» are ad" 
▼ifed to try this method. 



PLAIN BILLS OF FARE FOR DINNER ALL 

THE YEAR ROUND. 



JANUARY. 

Roast turi[67, celery, cranberry sanoe, boiled oiiioii8» 
potatoes browned, mashed turnips, apples and nuts. 



Minoed turkey, potatoes boQed in tbeir jackets, cranberry ainoei 
currant dumplings. 

Shank end of a leg of mutton, boiled with rice, mashed pota- 
toes, (Mckled beets, and mince pie. 

Leg of mutton boiled, then roasted, with caper sauce, mashed 
potatoes, and turnips, stewed tomatoes, and baked apple dun^ 
lings. 



A good soup made from leg of mutton broth, the shank bone, 
and fresh beef bone, with bunch of sweet herbs, and vegetables ; 
mutton sliced, and warmed over, roast potatoes, fried parsnqw, 
and mince pie. 

Fish chowder, plam boiled potatoes, macaroni, pickled beetiy 
and boiled apple pudding. 

Compomy Diamer. 

Vermicelli soup, boiled turkey stuffed with oysters, roast dtii^- 
en, boiled ham, cranberry jelly, celery, fried potatoes, canned 
eom, tomatoes, stewed parsnips, eaoliflowery macaroni, plum pud* 
ding, nuts, oranges, and raisins. 



I 



BILLB OF FABE FOB DINNXB. 267 

FEBRUARY. 
Iiish jtew, fried parsnips, roast potatoes, picldes, and apple pie. 

Boiled corned beef, cabbage, carrots, mashed tumips-and pot^^ 
Uies, rice, and raisins with sauce. 

Cold corned beef, roast potatoes, macaroni, fried parsnips, pick- 
led beets, and apple pie. 

Broiled mutton chops, potatoes boiled in their skins, stewed to- 
niatoes, and tapioca pudding. 

Baked pork, and beans, and boiled codfish, with mashed pota- 
toes, and pickles, apple sauce. Baked apple pudding. 

Roast leg of mutton, and currant jelly, mashed potatoes, boiled 
onions, fried parsnips, and bread currant pudding. 

Stuffed and stewed prairie chickens, stewed tomatoes, mashed 
canned com, and lemon pie. 

ttodra DinneT, 

Tomato soup, boiled salmon trout, with anchovy sauce, roast 
turkey, cranberry sauce, canned corn, Lima beans, celery, brown 
mashed potatoes, fried oyster plant pickles, bread and butter pud- 
ding, apples, oranges, biscuits and French coffee. 

Sunday Dirmer, 

Oyster soup, roast ribs of beef, cold slaw, succotash of com 
and Lima beans, mashed potatoes, fried parsnips, and apple merin- 
gue pie. 

MARCH 

Beef a la mode, from the upper part of the leg, roast potatoef 
boiled parsnips, atewed cabbage with vinegar, and apple fritiert* 



258 SELLS OF FABB FOB OnrNXB. 

Soup made from sbin of beef, and split peaa, bacon, and cab> 
bage, bofled potatoes, pickles and apple pie. 

Fillet of veal larded, potatoes, fried parsnips, apple sauce and 
" birdnest^ padding. 

Knuckle of veal stewed with rice, fried potatoes, stewed toma- 
toes and mince pie. 

Cold beef, roast potatoes, fried parsnips, cold slaw and " Bof^ 
fido'* pudding. 

Boiled codfish with egg sauce, beef hash, mashed potatoes, cold 
slaw, and pumpkin pie. 

Boiled ham, and spinach, lobster salad, plain boiled potaloea, 
and rice pudding. 

Sunday Dinner. 

Baked salmon trout, fricasseed chickens, mashed potatoes, salsi- 
fy, currant jelly, and bread and butter pudding. 

APRIL. 
Lamb stew with potatoes and greens, currant dumplings. 

Veal cutlets with bacon, spinach, mashed potatoes, sliced fresh 
tomatoes, and Indian pudding. 

Stuffed and baked shad, salad of early lettuce, boiled rice used 
as a vegetable instead of potatoes, lemon pie. 

Boast lamb, mint sauce, new potatoes, sliced fresh tomatoes, 
spinach and rhubarb pie. 

Boiled leg of mutton, caper sauce, greens, mashed potatoes an 
tapioca pudding. 

Gold leg of mutton, with salad and mashed potatoes^ roly poly 
pudding. 



ntLLS OF FABB FOB BINlTBB* 259 

** Medley ^ pie made of a few scraps of cold meat, an oiiioBf 
spplef, sugar and spice, fried potatoes and rice currant fritters. 

Sunday Dinner, 

Roast chickens, stewed tomatoes, new, or Bermuda pctatoeii 
■pinach, canned com, and lemon meringue pie. 

MAY. 

Boast lamb, green peas, mint sauce, spinach and potatoes, rho* 
barb batter pudding. 

Boiled blue fish with parsley sauce, fried potatoes, lamb ero- 
guetteSf or balls made of cold meat, done up with an egjg, etc., stew* 
ed tomatoes and bread pudding. 

Irish stew of mutton with greens, and baked beans, sliced to- 
matoes and currant dumplings. 

Veal pot pie, with potatoes, salad and rice, and raisins. 

Boiled leg of lamb, caper sauce, stewed tomatoes, mashed po- 
tatoes, and rhubarb pie. 

Boiled fresh mackerel, green gooseberry sauce, hashed lamb, 
mashed potatoes, and rhubarb dumplings. 

Stewed pigeons, with thin slices of fried bacon, spinach, pota- 
toes, salad and lemon pie 

Company Dmner. 

White soup, oHtcs, baked blue fish, salad, fillet of veal stu£fed, 
and roasted Bermuda potatoes, sweet potatoes, spinach, stewed to- 
matoes, jelly, and kidney beans, custard in cups, rhubarb pie. 

JUNE. 

Stewed rabbit, early potatoes, greens, salad, green gooseberry 
pie« 



Boiled lamb chops, potatoes, kidnej beana, sliced tomatoes, and 
rhubarb baLter pudding. 

Roast leg of lamb, potatoes. asparaguB, and sliced tomatoei 
Blan; mange with jeUj. 

Slewed rauttoQ with rice, eari; potatoei, aalad, gooseberrT' pis 

Veal pot pie, potatoes, sliced tomatoes, and rice pudding. 

Roast chickens, jelly, early potatoes, asparagus, and com starcfa 

pudding, with cream, and fresh strawberries. 

Chowder of blue fish, with potatoes, sliced tomatoes, cold bcnied 
ham, and fresh currant pie. 

JULY. 
Shoulder of veal stuffed, potatoes, asparagos, salad and straw- 
berry pie. 

Small ribs of lamb stewed with new potatoes, green peas, toma- 
toes, and blackberry batter pudding. 



Boiled Bslmon with green peas, and egg sauce, potatoes, salad, 

and strawberry dumplings. 

Corned beef, early cabbage atewed with rinegar, young turnips, 
(lotatoea, and cherry pie. 

Roast beef, potatoes, aspar^us, Lima beans, Indian com, toma- 
toes, and green apple pie. 

Chops cut off leg of mutton, and cooked with toroatoes, pot* 



BXLLB O^ 9AKB TOtL t>IN^1s:n. 261 

Boast leg of mutton, green peas, stewed tomatoes, potatoes, and 
hueUebeny pie. 

Extra Dinner. 

tomato soup, boiled salmon, with anchovy sauce, salad, roast 
tatnb, green peas, mint sauce, potatoes, stewed tomatoes, sucoo- 
ta»n ot liima beans and Indian corn. Ice bianc mange, with 
ptDnapples, and open currant tart. 

AUGUST. 

Fillet or ^^al larded, new potatoes, stewed tomatoes, spinadi, 
and huckleWrry pudding. 

Cold veal, succotash of corn and string beans, potatoes, salad, 
and cherry |rae. 

Teal pie, svewed tomatoes, potatoes, horseradish, and rice dump, 
Imgs. 

Lamb chops with tomato sauce, string beans, and new potatoes, 
huckleberry, or blackberry pie. 

^ 

Cold lamb, potato salad, stewed tomatoes, green com boiled, 
and cherry pudding 

Boast leg of lamb, mint sauce, new potatoes, new mashed turnips, 
lalad, green peas, and currant, or gooseberry pie. 

Dish of pickled cod with melted butter, cold boiled ham, potatoes, 
falad, com, and fresh fruit pie. Or pudding. 

Stewed pigeons, lobster salad, potatoes, asparagus, currant jelly, 
Lima beans, currant, and custard tarts. 

SEPTEMBER. 

Boast prairie chickens, with apple sauce, potatoes, and spinach { 
eom starch pudding, and sliced peaches. 



262 Bimi OV FABB FOB DINKBB. 

FiDel of mutton slighliy corned, potatoes, green ^orn, new tm^ 
nipt, and corrant jelly. Bread padding. 

Gold mutton, mashed potatoes browned, masbed turnips, salad, 
and bUskberry padding, ' * Buffalo " style. 

Bhank end of leg of mutton stewed with rice, stewed tomatoes, 
fried potatoes, and peach pie. 

Sirioin of beef roasted, potatoes , cauliflower, succotash, and 
tomato salad. Yorkshire puddding. 

Cold beef, hot potatoes, salad, or pickles, green com, and plnm 
batter padding. 

Oyster soup, the beef>bones being used to make the smaQ 
amount of stock necessaiy, minced beef with potatoes, stewed to- 
matoes, string beans, and green apple pie. 

BirOiday Dinner, 

Oyster pie, roast chicken with jelly, potatoes, com, Lima^ beans, 
salad, bread and butter, pudding, and dish of fresh pears, peaches« 
plums, etc., arranged with leaves, and flowers. 



OCTOBER 

Mntton chops, with mushroom sauce, potatoes, succotash, and 
lemon meringue pie. 

Boiled mutton, caper sauce, mashed turnips, potatoes, sliced to- 
matoes, or stewed ; any rice pudding. 

BroOed beef steak, baked potatoes, tomatoes, and baked appla 
dnmplings. 

Irish (mutton) stew, with dish of rice, as vegetablest tomatoes, 
and fresh apple pie 



buxb of fabb fob diknbb. 263 

Vegetable soup, chowder made of haddock, potatoes, salad* and 
eurrant dumplings. 

Coraed beef, cabbage, potatoes, tmnips, carrot, and stewed beets, 
Tapioca apple pudding. 

Tomato soup, alamode beef, stewed cabbage, potatoes, Uma 
beans, celery, and baked rice pudding, with fruit. 



NOVEMBER. 

Stewed rabbit, with dish of pork and beans, boiled onions, po- 
tatoes, and pickles. Apple pie. 

Roast haunch of mutton, mashed white turnips, potatoes, and 
jelly. Pancakes with jelly. 

Chicken pot-pie, mashed potatoes, celery, pickled cauliflower, 
and squash or pumpkin pie. 

Ox tail soup, soused fish, cold beans, hot potatoes, pickles, and 
English roU pudding. 

Beef stew, mashed potatoes, fined parsnips, pickled beets, and 
baked apple pudding. 

Roast chickens, mashed potatoes, cold slaw, egg plant, fried in 
butter, stewed tomatoes, and bread pudding. 



Huoiksgiwag Dinner, 

Oyster soup, ood, with egg sauce, lobster salad, roast turkey, 
cranberry sauce, mixed pickles, mangoes, pickled peaches, cold 
slaw, and celery ; boiled ham, chicken pie ornamented, jelly, mash- 
ed potatoes browned, tomat^oes, boiled onions, canned com, sweet 
potatoes, roasted broccoli. Mince, and pumpkin pie, apple tartSi 
Indian padding. Apples, nuts, and raisins. 



Tli-t • - 



204 BILLg OF FABB FOB DINirBB. 

DECEMBER. 

Spare rib of pork, mashed potatoes, apple aaxice, and baked 
apple dumpliDgB. 

Ribs of beef, boned and staffed, potatoes, boiled onions, fried 
parsnips, and pickled cabbage ; pumpkin pie. 

Soup, brofled chops, mashed potatoes, apple sauce, and boiled 
rice, with raisins. 

Soup meat, made into a stew with vegetables, and stock spiee 
and sweet herbs, Indian dumplings, potatoes, and apple pi<;. 

Roast turkej, cranberry jelly, mashed potatoes, stewed parsnips, 
salsify, or vegetable oyster, celery, mince pie, and apples. 

Young goose, with onion stuffing, par-boiled, then roasted, 
mashed potatoes, apple sauce, broccoli, and apple pie, with cheese. 

• 

Cold fowl, cold boiled ham, roast potatoes, fried parsnips, mac< 
caroni, cranberry sauce, or pickles, and mince pie with dieese. 

ChriMmaa Dirmer, 

Mock turtle soup, salmon, or baked trout, with anchovy sauce. 
Roast turkey with necklace of sausages, cranberry sauce, boilec 
fowls 9tuffed, with mushrooms, bread sauce. Boiled ham, apple 
sauce, mashed potatoes, potato balls, boiled onions, egg plant 
fried in batter, Lima beans, and stewed tomatoes ; oyster fritters, 
oysters vol k vent, celery and pickles. 

DesBert. Christmas plum pudding, lemon cheese cakes, tipsy 
rake, champagne jelly, apples, nuts, raisins, and grapes. 



WINES AND DRINKS. 



CUBRAirr OHAMPAaNB. 

IngredientB for thirty gallons : — ^Three bushels, or one hundred 
And fifty pounds of currants, seventy-five pounds of white Havanna 
or refined crushed sugar; three pints white brandy, with suffi- 
cient pure soft water. The fruit should be gathered in dry 
weather, when ripe ; mash them to break every berry, but not 
bruise the stems ; add a portion of the water, and after stirring 
well, turn the mass on to a strainer, over a grain sieve, or riddle, 
rubbing and pressing very gently with the hands. The usual 
practice of squeezing and wringing through the strainer forces 
through too much pulp, occasioning too great a degree of fermen- 
tation. The sugar should be put into a tub or other open vessel ; 
with the brandy, and the liquor strained on to it. When the su- 
gar is dissolved, strain the whole through a fine hair, or grass 
cloth, into a strong, sweet cask of thirty-two gallons, and fill up 
to within two gallons, which leaves sufficient room for the fermen- 
tation to proceed, and drive in the bung tight. It is desirable 
that all parts of the process should go on at the same time, and be 
finished with all possible dispatch. The sooner the wine is bottled 
after it is perfectly fine, the more briskness it will exhibit. In 
producing champagne, it is necessaxy to give air for a short time, 
io increase the fermentation and deprive it of a great portion of 
its sweetness. The white currant is sweeter, and pleasantiOr fla- 
▼ored, when ripe, for table use, than the red. The wine made 
from it is noorly colorless, of sweet and pleasant flavor. Bottled 
before the fermentation has entirely subsided, it makes a fine 
champagne: 

IS 



266 WDTBS AND DRINK B. 



CURRANT WINIE. 

Bruiso npe currants stripped from the stem, and add to ewetj 
gallon of pulp, half a gallon of water, first boiled and cold ; let i^ 
remain in a tub twenty-four hours to ferment ; strain it through a 
hair sieve, not pressing it with the hand, but letting it take itj 
time to run. Then stii well in two pounds and a half of white su 
gar to every gallon of liquor. Add a quart of best rectified spirit 
of wine to every six gallons. Afler it has stood six weeks, botda 
it. If it is not very fine empty it into other bottles, let it stand 
two weeks and then rack it off into smaller bottles. 

BLACK CURRANT WINE. 

Put the currants, afler picking out the stems and leaves, into an 
open vessel, and cover them with water, keeping an accoont of the 
amount ; then with a pestle or pounder mash every berry ; let them 
stand for twenty-four hours to dissolve the pulp, then put the mass 
into a coarse bag and submit them to pressure, when the juice will 
run freely. After deducting the amount of water, the remainder 
will be the pure juice ; and now, to every gallon of the juice add 
two of water, including that first put in, and to every gallon of the 
mixture, add four pounds of crushed sugar. Put it into a cask, 
reserving sufiSicient to fill up while fermenting. Put the cask in a 
moderately cool dry room to ferment ; as the refuse works at the 
bung ; fill up with the liquor reserved. When it has ceased work- 
ing, bung it close for nine months, and it will be fit for bottling 
and use. This will have much of the flavor of Port wine, and 
make an excellent article for sacramental purposes. By reducing 
the quantity of sugar and adding water, it will be a fiur imitation 
of claret wine, for a summer drink. 

GR4FB 8TRUP. 

Pick the grapes from the stems, and to every four pounds of 
grapes, add a pint of water. Set., them over a mcderate fire til] 
the grapes are well boiled, keeping the pan, which should be block 
tin or brass, covered ; strain through a hair sieve, gently pressinfl^ 
the grapes ; when cool, cover it with a plate and lot it remain till 
the next day in either wood, or an earthen veiael. Then carefiil 



WnnSB AND DBINKS. 267 

•y dear it off, and to each pint allow a pound of loaf sugar brok« 
en, put the sugar into a pan, adding a pint of water to every four 
pounds ; stir it while cold till the sugar is partly dissolved ; then 
put it on a moderately brisk fire with the pan covered, stirring it 
often till nearly boiling ; watch it carefully that it may not rise 
too much ; let it boil up several times, skim it off quite clean, 
then ponr in the juice, cover the pan until it nearly boils ; remove 
the cover and let the syrup boil fifteen minutes, skimming it well. 
Pour the syrup into a stone jar, with a little grated lemon, or a 
lew pieces of broken cinnamon, and let it remain one day. Then 
strain it into bottles, cork, and keep it in a cool place. This is 
reoommended as an unalcoholic wine. 

GRAFS WINE. — 1. 

Crash Gre gallons of ripe grapes, and let them soak seven days 
in four and a half gallons of soft water ; add to it seventeen and 
a half pounds of white sugar. Strain it, put it into a clean cask, 
leave it open until fermentation ceases, then bung tightly. 

ORAFE WINE. — 2. 

Gather the grapes when they are just turning color, or about 
half ripe. Pound them in a tub with the stalks, and to every 
quart of pounded fruit, put two quarts of water. Let this stand 
in a mash tub fourteen days, then draw it off, and to every gallon 
of liquor put three pounds of loaf sugar ; when this is dissolved, 
cask the wine. After it has worked, bung it securely down, and 
keep it for six months ; then bottle it, and tie down or wire the 
oorks, if it be intended to be kept more than one year. 

ELDER WINE. 

Take the juice of three gallons of elder berries, which will 
ihout equal six quarts. Add twenty-four pounds of sugar, and 
wash the husks of the berries, in'sixteen quarts of water. Boil 
fix ounces of ginger in water, strain and boil a second time. Add 
this and the juice of the berries, to the water in which the hoskf 
have been washed. Cask it, and when the fermentation is over 
put into the cask some well-dried spices. 



268 WmBS AND DBINKB. 



XLDKB FLOWER WIKB. 

A.II0W a gallon of water, and three pounds of sugar to ererj 
]uart of the blossoms stripped from the stalks, bo3 and skim the 
sugar and water, and pour it over the flowers boiling hot. To 
every gallon of the liquor add a small table-spoonful of home- 
h re wed hop yeast, and the juice of a lemon ; stir it thoroughly to- 
gether. Let the whole ferment for three days in an open yessd 
of wood or earthen, the top entirely covered witli a thick woolen 
blanket. At the end of three days, strain it through a sieve and 
whisk the white of an egg beaten to a froth, through the wine. 
Put at the bottom of the cask chopped raisins, in the proportion 
of three or four pounds to every six gallons of wine, pour in the 
wine, and close the bung. In six months it will be fit to bottle. 

BLACKBERRY WINE. 

First pour boiling water on the fruit and when cool, bruise it. 
Let it stand until the berries rise to the top ; then drain off tna 
clear liquor, measure it and add two pounds of sugar to everv 
gallon of liquor ; stir it well and let it stand open a week or ton 
days, then draw off the wine and pan it through a jelly-bag. Taic#^ 
half an ounce of isinglass for every three gallons, dissolve it in a 
little of ^he wine and mix it through the whole. 

RHUBARB WINE. 

Chop the stalks, and for fifty pounds of rhubarb, allow (.hirr^ 
pounds of sugar ; press the juice, add the sugar and enough watei 
for nine gallons of wine ; put it into a cask, cover it with a cloth 
until it ceases to ferment ; plug the barrel for three months, then 
t>ottle the wine, or if this is not convenient draw it off into a clean 
cask that it will fill completely. 

GOOSEBERRY WINE. 

Take a quantity of ripe, white or yellow gooseberries, bruise 
them with a pestle in a tub, and to every eight pounds of fruit add one 
gaUon of cold spring water. Stir them and let them stand twenty* 
four hours ; then strain the mash through a fine sieve or a grass 
doth strainer T^ very gallon of juice add four pounds of white 



WTBTSS AND DBIKKB. 269 

loaf sagar. When all is dissolvrd, stir it well, and when settled put 
it into a cask with two quarts of brandy to every ten gallons of juice 
and half an ounce of isinglass. Set the cask in a cool place, leav- 
ing out the bung until the fermentation has nearly ceased. Then 
draw off into bottles, and cork tight immediately. 

OBEEN GOOSBBBRRT WINIB. 

Having thoroughly bruised eight gallons of green gooseberrief , 
put them into eight gallons of cold water, and allow them to stand 
foi' twenty-four hours ; at the end of that time drain the liquor 
well off through a sieve, and for each gallon add three pounds and 
a half of loaf sugar ; pour the liquor into a cask and put to it one 
quart of the best gin. After standing for six months it will be 
ready for bottling. 

OINOER WINS. 

To every gallon of water put nearly toiree pounds of loaf sugar, 
two lemons, and two ounces of ginger, bruised. Boil the sugar 
and water for half an hour, skimming it, then pour it on the rinds 
&f the lemons and the ginger. When the liquor is milk warm, 
squeeze in the juice of the lemons, and put in it a little yeast at 
the same time. Let it woric for two or three days, then put it in- 
to a cask closely stopped for six weeks. Bottle it with one gallon 
of brandy to twelve gallons of wine. The pulp of the ginger and 
lemons must be put into the cask with a little isinglass, to refine the 
wine ; but the pips and white part of the lemons should be remov- 
ed, as they make it bitter. 

BLACKBERRY BRANBT. 

Bottle equal quantities of blackberry juice and brandy, allowing 
a pound of loaf sugar to every gallon. Or, a gallon of black- 
V)ierrie8 can be put to each gallon of deodorized pure spirits, and 
the berries dissolved in the spirits. These are very good for bowel 
complaints. 

CHERRY BRANDY. 

Crush cherries, and allow one quart to every gallon of spirits* 
Wild cherries are the proper ones to be used. Rum, brandy, oi 

\\cof]or]7f'f^ jiMrf* ^Tri*«i pan W- ^sod. 



270 wuriBB Aio) DiaxauL 



RASPBKRRT 9TRUP. 

Add one quart of Yinegar to three quarts of berries, let it rtaol 
one day then squeeze it through a cloth. Add a pound of sugar 
for each pint of juice and boil it twenty minutes. 

HOP BBBB. 

To make fifteen gallons, take twelve ounces of hops, six quarli 
of molasses, ten egg». Put the hops in a bag, and boil them fifteen 
minutes in three pails-fuU of water. Put in the molasses whDe hot, 
and pour immediately into a strong ale cask which can be made 
perfectly air tight, and put in the renuiinder of the water cold. Let 
the mixture stand until cool, and then add the egg. This beer will 
not ferment in cold weather unless put in quite a warm place. It 
will keep six or eight months. Three months after it is fermented 
it is almost equal to ale. 

OmOER BEKR 

Stir up in a gallon of boiling water, one pound of loaf sugar, one 
ounce and a half of the best ginger bruised, and one ounce of 
cream of tartar, or, if preferred, a lemon sliced, until .the heat falls 
to that of new milk. Then having poured one table-spoonful of 
good yeast upon a piece of bread, put it in the middle of th^ vessel 
letting it fioat in the mixture. Cover the whole with a cloth, and 
let it stand twenty-four hours, after which, strain it and put it into 
bottles, filling each only about three parts full, cork them tightly, 
and tie them down. In warm weather this ginger beer will be 
ready to drink in two days. 

TO MAKB A CASK OF OINGER BEER. 

Take ten gallons of soft water, and fifteen pounds of loaf sagar, . 
iarified with the whites of six eggs ; bruise half pound of white 
finger ; boil half an hour. Pare off the thin yellow rind of twelve 
lemons, and pour the liquor when it is boiling, over the lemon 
peel. As soon as it is cool, mix a gill of good yeast with it, and 
put it in a cask. Retain two quarts of the liquoi, in which dissolve 
two ounces of shred isinglass ; mix it with the wine, and shake 
well. Let the cask stand open all night; then clc«e the bang, 



Ni 



WIKES AND DRINKS. 271 

and in three weeks bottle it off. It will be fit to driok in ihrer 
months.. 

SFRUCB BBER. — 1. 

Water ten gallons ; sugar ten pounds ; essence of spruce quar 
ter of a pound ; yeast half piut. Dissolve the sugar and essence 
of spruce in the water, previously wanned ; then allow it to cool 
a little, and add the yeast as in making ginger beer ; bottle imme- 
diately in half pint bottles. 

SPRUCB BIEBR. — 2, 

To a gallon of water, allow an ounce of hops and a spoonful of 
ginger. Boil it well, strain it, and add a pint of molasses and hall 
an ounce of the essence of spruce ; let it cool, pour in a tea-cup of 
yeast and put it into a clean cask. Afler it has fermented a day or 
two, bottle it. 

MEAD. 

To six gallons of water, add six quarts of strained honey, the 
yellow rind of two large lemons, pared very thin, and the whites 
of three eggs beat to strong froth. Mix and boil all together 
three quarters of an hour, skimming it well. Pour into a tub. 
When lukewarm, add three table-spoonsful of good fresh yeast, 
cover and leave it to ferment. When it is well worked, pour it 
into a barrel with lemon peel in the bottom, and let it stand six 
months. It will then be ready to bottle. 

SHRUB. 

Take three quarts of I'ed currant juice, three quarts of good rnm, 
dissolve in it two pounds of lump sugar, stir together and strain 
through a jelly bag. When it is entirely clear, bottle it. 

QUICK BBER. 

Fourteen quarts of cold water, one quart of molasses, one quart 
of hop yeast and four table-spoonsful of ginger ; mix it well, strain 
through a fine sieve and bottle it immediately. In twenty-four 
hours it will be ready for use. 



272 WINBS AND DSUfKS. 



GINGER POP. 

Take three quarters of a pound of white sugar, one ounce of 
ereani of tartar, the juice and rind of a lemon, one ounce of gin- 
ger, pat the whole into a pan, and pour over it fbur quarts of boil- 
ing water ; lot it stand till lukewarm, and then add a table-spoon« 
iul of yeast. When it has ceased boiling, bottle it off in smaU 
•oda water bottles or jars. It will be fit for use in twenty-fom 
hours. 

IMPERIAL.. 

Put into a jug that will contain three pints, half an ounce of 
cream of tartar, the juice of a lemon and the rind pared very thin ; 
pour boiling water over these, and add sugar to taste. When 
cold, it is fit for use. It is refreshing and wholesome for persons 
heated from the weather, or feverish from indisposition. 

BERRT DRINK. 

Put two quarts of ripe, fresh raspberries into a stone or glazed 
ressel, whose glazing will not be affected by acids, and pour on 
them a quart of good vinegar. Let it stand twenty-four hours, 
and then strain out the juice and vinegar. To each pint of this, 
add a pound of pulverized white sugar, and put.it into a porcelain 
kettle to boil smartly for about half an hour, removing all the scum 
as it rises. When cold, bottle and seal. Half a gill of this, stir- 
red in a tumblerful of cold water, makes a delicious drink.' Straw- 
oerries, dewberries, or blackberries can be used in the same man- 
ner, only using just as much vinegar as will cover the fruit. Add 
no alcohol. With bottles well sealed, it will keep two years. 

YANKEE CORN DRINK. 

To five gallons of cold water, add one quart of sound com, and 
two quarts of molasses. Put it into a keg, shake well, and in two 
or three days it will be fit for use. Bung tight. It may be flii- 
▼ored with essence of spruce or lemon. The corn will last to make 
five or six brewings ; if it becomes soar, add more molasses and 
water. It is a cheap and simple beer, and is called very good. 

A QUICK DRINK. 

TlUce a glass of sherry, a small bit of mint, and some fugar to 



.«*» 



WIKBS AND DBINE8. 273 

taste ; mix together in a large tambler, add some pounded ice, 
and then poor on it a pint of cider ; drink it when it effervesces. 
Half the quantity will generally be found enough, or the ingredients 
may be divided into two glasses, unless you have a soda water 

MILK LEMONADB. 

Put one quart of boiling water, the juice of six fine lemons, the 
peel of three, pared very thin, two wine glasses of syrup, and half 
a pint of Maderia or Sherry into a covered vessel and let it stand 
twelve hours. Then boil half a pint of new milk, pour it on the 
mixture, and run it through a jelly bag until .clear. It makes a 
refreshmg drink. 

FORTABLB LEMONADS. 

1^ strained lemon juice to loaf sugar, in the proportion of 
four large lemons to a pound of white sugar, or as much as it will 
hold in solution. Grate the rinds, which add to this. Preserve in 
a close jar, or large mouthed bottles. Use a table-spoonful for a 
tumbler of water. 

FOURTH OF JULT SHERRY COBBLER. 

A large tumbler two thirds full of pounded ice ; half a dozen 
strawberries, a few fine chips from the yellow rind of a lemon, • 
table-spoonful of powdered sugar; fill with fine Sherry, shake 
and take in the usual way. 

EGO lYOO. 

Fo the yolks of six eggs, add six table-spoonsful of powdered 
sugar, a quart of new milk, half a pint of French brandy, and a 
pint of Maderia. Beat the whites up separately, and stir them 
through the mixture, just before pouring into cup glasses. 

STATEN ISLAND LEMONADE. 

Take half a dozen fresh lemons, and half a dozen smooth S^ 
fille oranges, and rub loaf sugar on the outside, until the flavor- 
ing oil is all extracted from the rind ; roll them soft, press out the 
jaioe» add the sugar to the juice, strain ofif the seeds, a bow of 

12» 



274 wnms and deinkb. 

pounded ice, a pint of Sherry, and a quart of water. Shake aD 
together very thoroughly. It is a delicious summer drink. 

CLARVT PUNCH. • 

A pint bottle of claret, a gill of French brandy, four table 
•poonsful of powdered sugar, the juice and thinly cut rind of f 
:ion, a lump of ice, and a pint of water. 

A COOL CUP. 

Weigh six ounces of sugar in lumps, and extract the essence 
from the rind of a large, fresh lemon by rubbing them upon it, 
then put them into a deep jug, and add the strained juice of one 
lemon and a half. When the sugar is dissolved, pour in a bottle 
of good cider, and three large wine-glasses full of Sherry ; add 
nearly half a small nutmeg, lightly grated, and serve the cup with, 
or without some sprigs of fresh balm or borage in it. If closely 
covered down, and placed on ice for a short time, it will be more 
agreeable as a summer beverage. 

MAY DRINK. (^OemumJ) 

Put into a large, deep jug one pint of light white wine, to two 
of red, and dissolve in it sufficient sugar to sweeten it agreeably. 
Wipe a sound China orange, cut it in rather thick slices without 
paring it, and add it to the wine ; then throw in some small bunches 
of the fragrant little plant, called woodruff, cover the jar close- 
ly to exclude the air, and leave it until the following day. Lemon 
rind can be used instead of oranges. Serve this to May-day 
Tifitors. 

OXFORD SWIG 

Put into a bowl a pound of sugar, pour on it a pint of warn 
^•t>er, grated nutmeg, and some ginger, also grated; add four 
!• lasses of sherry and five pints of beer, stir it well, and if not 
sweet enough, add more sugar, and let it stand covered up four 
hours, and it is fit for use. Sometimes add a few lumps of sugar 
rubbed on a lemon to extract the davor, and some lemon juice. If 
the lemon rind is pared very thin, without any of the white skip 
left, it answers better, by giving a stronger flavor of the lemon. 



WmSS AXD DBINKS. 271 

Botde this mixtui>3, and in a few days it will be in a state of efler- 
yesoenoe. When served in a bowl fresh made, add some bread 
toasted very crisp, cut in narrow strips 

SACK POSSET. 

Four ounces of fine brown sugar, a pint of sweet wine or sack, 
and a nutmeg ; let them simmer till the sugar is dissolved ; bea 
ton eggs, and put them on the fire to warm with a quart of milk, 
sdr them one way to prevent curdling ; when cold mix all together 
aud pit it on the fire to warm, but hot boil ; serve hot 

CHRISTBCAS EGG NOG. 

Take the yolks of eight eggs and six table-spoonsful of pulver- 
ized sugar, and beat them to the consistency of cream ; to this 
^dd half a nutmeg, grated, and beat well together, then mix one 
third of a pint of good Jamaica rum, and a wine glass of brandy 
or Madeira wine ; have ready the whites of the eggs beaten to a 
stiff fi*oth, and beat them into the above mixture ; when this is 
done, stir in three pints of good rich milk. No heat is used 

MILK PUNCH. 

Beat up two eggs, well mix them with a quart of milk, adding 
sugar, nutmeg, and lemon peel, to taste. Boil this gently, and 
stir it all the time until sufficiently thick. Remove it from the fire 
for a very few minutes, then add to it a full gill of rum, stirring it 
all the time it is being poured in. 

BCILK PUNCH TO KEEP. 

Pare six oranges and six lemons, as thin as possible, and grate 
them afterwart'j to extract the flavor. Soak the peel for twenty- 
four hours in a bottle of rum or brandy, closely stopped. Squeeze 
the fi*uit on two pounds of sugar, and add to it four quarts of wa 
ter and one of new milk, boiling hot. Stir in the rum, and run it 
through a jelly bag until quite dear, then bottle and cork it doself 
immediately. 

COLD PUNCH. 

Ftat into a sauoepan a full pint of cold water and one pound and 



276 wimcs and dkinkb. 

a half of white sugar ; let it be on the fire until the fiugar is di*- 
lolved. Add three bottles of white wine, some lemon syrup, and 
a little ginger, let it get hot, but not boiling. When quite hot, 
pour half a bottle of fine rum into it and immediately take it off 
llie fire. As booa as the punch begins to cool, it must be bcttlad 
ind weU corked. It will keep good for some time. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 



EBEFINO ORAFB8. 

ndt the grapes before tbej are dead-ripe and when |peifectly 
dry ; remove all the defective ones ; wrap each bunch well in old 
paper or cotton, and not allow more than two layers in a box 
place in a cold, dry room where they will not freeze. 

The French preserve grapes the year round, by coating the dus- 
ters witn hme. The bunches are picked just before they are thor- 
oughly ripe, and dipped in lime water of the consistency of thick 
cream. They are then hung up to remain. The lime coating 
keeps out the air, and checks any tendency to decay. When want- 
ted for the table, dip the clusters into warm water to remove the 
lime. 

In preserving grapes, with cotton, they are sometimes placed 
gently between layers of cotton in a glass or earthen ware jar. 
The jar is then corked down and the corks dipped in melted resin, 
or otherwise rendered air tight. 

EEEFINO APFLES. 

Apples, potatoes, etc., are well preserved in barrels and boxes 
in a dry cellar, with light and air excluded, and the temperature 
quite cold without freezing. Apples are sometimes kept excellent- 
ly in river sand dried in an oven, placing in a large box a layer of 
Band and a layer of apples, taking care that the apples do not touch 
each other. 

KXEPTSG FEAS FOB WINTEB USB. 

Shell the peas, throw them into boiling water with a little salt lO 
it, allow them to boil five or six minutes. Then drain in a colan- 
der ithd afterwards on a doth until completely dried. Then place 



278 MISCSLLANBOirS. 

ihem in air tight bottles. Some place them into wide mouthed 
bottles, not quite filling them, and poar in fHed mutton fat so as to 
cover them. Then cork tightly, securing the cork with resin or 
with a bladder. When used boil them until tender with some but- 
ter and a veiy little mint. Another method is after they are drierl 
as above, place them on a tin or earthen diiU In a mild oven onoe 
or tw: )e until they harden, and then place them in paper bags hou| 
k the kitchen. 

KKKPINO CABBAOBS. 

When the weather becomes finosty, cut them zS near the head, 
and carry them with the leaves on, to a dry cellar. Break off su- 
perfluous leaves, and pick into a light cask or box, stems upward, 
and when nearly full, cover with leaves. Secure the box or bairei 
with a lid against rats. 

KKEFINa CABBAGES IN THE TOUNTRT. 

Take up the cabbages by the roots, set them closely together in 
rows up to the head in soil, roots down, the same as it grows; 
drive in posts at the comers of the bed, and intermediate spaces, 
if necessary, higher on one side than the other ; nail strips of board 
or lath on these posts ; lay upon these old boards, doors, or if you 
have notoing else, bean poles and corn fodder, so that the roof 
will be clear of the cabbages, and allow the air to circulate ; dose 
up the sides with yard or garden offiil of any kind, and the cab- 
bages will keep all winter, fresh and green, and be accessible at 
all times, or nearly so, the frost not being so severe under this 
protection as in exposed places. Exclude moisture, but never 
mind the frost. 

KEEFINa MUSTARD. 

Dissolve three ounces of salt in a quart of boiling water, and 
pour it hot upon two ounces ot scraped horseradish. Closely cover 
the jar, and let it it stand twenty-four hours, strain it, and by de- 
grees mix it with flour of mustard. Beat them well together fort 
long time, until the mixture becomes of the proper thickness. 
Put it into wide-mouthed bottles, and cork it down closely, wbenil 
will keep good for many months. « 



MIBOBLLAKfiOirS. 279 



TO FRBSKRVE PAINT. 



Wash white paint with warm water, soap, a soft flannel ; do not 
tcrub it with a brush, and wipe it diy with a large, old linen doth* 
This will keep it nice for years. 

TO KEEP LEMOXS. 

Keep them in cold water, changed every week. This also adds 
to the juice. 

TO PBE8XRV1B PABSLKT FRESH AND QREEN. 

Put it into a strong pickle of salt and water, boiling hot. and 
keep for use. Or it is good for soup, stuffing, etc., hung up io 
bmiches, in a dry attic or store- room. 

TO PRBSEBYB MUSHROOMS 

Put your mushrooms, cut as for stewing, into a saucepan ; stew 
till all the liquor is drawn, and then till all again is absorbed ; and 
when quite dry, put in a good lump of butter, cayenne pepper, and 
salt. After it has boiled, pour into sweet-meat pots the sizes that 
will be sufficient for a dish, and well cover them with butter ; and 
they will be, when warmed up and well finished off with a little 
white sauce, as good as when fresh gathered. 

TO KEEP MEAT, GAME, OR POULTRT, IN HOT WEATHER. 

If you wish to keep meat a day or two longer, and there is danger 
of its being effected by the hot weather, sprinkle roughly pounded 
charcoal over it, and put the same under it ; for birds, put a lump 
of charcoal in the inside, and sprinkle the breast, and under the 
wings, with the pounded charcoal. 

TO REMOVE TAINT FROM MEAT OR P0X7LTRT. 

Wash the pai*t affected, with chloride of soda first, and then is 
fi:«sh water. It should be cooked as soon as possible after being 
wet. Broiling, or roasting, is the best way to cook meats that 
have 1/een kept a little too long. If salted, wa^b it and throw away 
thf) brine, thee leave it, for a few days in the following composition : 
Fresh burnt charcoal powdered, twelve parts ; common salt eleven 



280 ICBGBLLAKSOirS. 

paztB, nltpetro fbar parts. Mix and use the same aa oommoii tall 
Before oookiiig remore the black color with dear water. 

SNOW AS A SUBSTITUTE FOR EGOS. 

In making pancakes or puddings, snow is an excellent substitate 
for eggs ; two table-spoonsful of snow stirred in quickly are equal 
to an egg in puddings or pancakes for making them light. It ii 
azplained by the fact that snow contains in its flakes much atmoa- 
pherio air, which is set free as it melts. 

CORN STARCH IKSTBAD OF EGOS. 

For most cakes and puddings, for which e^s are used, a table- 
ipoonful of com starch or maizena will be found an excellent sab- 
■titute for one egg. 

BOO PAPER. 

Soft, tough paper cut to fit jars, and dipped in a saucer of white of 
egg, put over steamed jars of fruit or preserves, will keep them bet- 
ter than all the late inventions. When the jars and fruit are scalded 
hot as possible, it will keep them nicely. For jellies and all kinds 
of pickles, it makes a cheap, convenient cover. The paper must 
turn over the rim of the jar. 

FROZEN POTATOES. 

Frozen potatoes give more starch or flour than fresh ones. 

SIZE OF TURNIPS. 

Small sized turnips have double the nutritious matter that larger 
ones have, but the largest rata bagas are the most nutritious. 

TO WASH FRUrr STAINS FROM THE HANDS. 

Bub them with sorrel, rhubarb stalks, lemon, apple or tomato 
ikins. 

DAMP WOOLEN GLOTHINO. 

Before putting damp woolen clothing to the fire, rub it with i 

moist sponge, the way of the nap, until the smoothness m restored; 

brushing will not remove the roughness, unless this precaution if 
taken. 



MISCELLAKBOITB. 281 



DIAMOND (JEMKNT. 

Tluf ]■ the best ceiuBMi ior broken glass, or china, because it if 
colorluss, and perfectly resist:^ luoidture. It requires to be liqni- 
(ied by piaciug the vial in boiling watiir, and should then be ap^ 
plied with a earners hair brush. 

HOW TO PRBVKNT THE INROADS OF VERMIN. 

On entering a new house, have it thoroughly clean, and every hole 
%nd crevice, in cupboard, closet, or room, stopped up with a cement 
made of putty, and chloride of lime. Before putting carpets, or 
oil-cloth down, dust tlie edi^cs of the boards with Lvons' or Per- 
sian powder, which will prevent the attacks of moths, and cock- 
roaches. A dollar spent in this way, will be found an excellent 
investment. Repeat the process, when general cleaning time 
comes, and with ordinary precaution in cleaning bedsteads, and 
taking care of furs, you will never be troubled with bugs, moths, 
or cockroaches. 

LOBSTBR^S EGGS. 

Lobster^s eggs boiled, and pounded in a mortar, constitute a per- 
fectly sale, harmless, and beautiful rouge. 

TO STRENGTHEN THE HAIR. 

Dilute an ounce of borax, and an ounce of camphor in two 
quarts of water, and wash the hair thoroughly twice a week, clip- 
ping the ends occasionally. It will quickly grow long, thick, and 
even. 

TO CLEAR, AND STRENGTHEN THE VOICE. 

The best method is in vogue among all distinguished vocalists 
viz : swallow the yolk of a raw egg, whole, every morning on ris 
ing ; abo avoid pastry, and sponge the throat and chest well with 
Mid water daily. 

BUTTER COOLER. 

A simple mode of keeping bntter in warm weather, where ioe is 
QOt bandjr, is, to pour about a pint of water, in a round dish, and 



282 MISCBIiLAinEOUB. 

place hair a brick, or stone the liie of half a brick, in the water, 
and put the plate of butter upon it, then invert a common flowei 
pot oyer the butter, so that the pot will set down in the water. 
Hie porousness of the earthen ware will keep the butter cool. 
It will bo better still if the. pot be covered with a wet cloth, ths 
rapid abstraction of heat by external evaporation causing the hol- 
ler to become hard. 

KITCHKN ODORS. 

Odors from boiling ham, cabbage, etc., may be preyented by 
throwing red pepper pods, or a few pieces of charcoal into the pot. 

FRUIT SINKING. 

To prevent fruit from sinking in puddings or cake, roll it in floor 
before putting it in. 

COCHINRAL. 

In using cochineal to give color, they may be broken and tied op 
in fine muslin, which obviates the difficulty of getting them out 
when the color is given. 

IMPROVING CORN MBAL. 

Indian meal is improved by being kiln dried. It may be spread 
on a dripping pan and heated in the oven. 

TO MAKE HBNS LAT IN WINTER. 

Keep them warm, keep com by them constantly, but do not feed 
it to them ; feed them with meat scraps, where lard or tallow has 
been tried, or fresh meat. Some chop up green peppers finely, 
and feed them. Let them have a frequent taste of green food, a 
little gravel and lime, or clam shells. 

TO FATTEN TURKEYS 

Eveiy morning for a month, give them mashed potatoes mixed 
with buckwheat flour, barley or beans ; take away what remains 
in the evening. After a month, add half a dozen balls made of 
barley flour, when they go to roost. Give them these eight daji 
SilocesriTely ; turkeys thi^s fe4 sM^e fi^t and goo^? 



MiBCiBLLAKttOtrd. 288 

HATOHING. 

Chickens are hatched in twenty-one days ; turkeys, twenty^nxt 
ducks and geese, thirty; pigeons, eighteen. 

TO CLARIFY DRIPFINO. 

Place the dripping in a large pan, pour on about a quart of boil- 
ing water, and pass the whole through a muslin or a sieve. Let it 
get cold, and the dripping can be taken out in a cake ; the refuse 
being at the bottom, will be easily scraped off. If it be not suffi- 
ciently clarified, the process must be repeated. 

TO CLARIFY MOLASSES. 

Common molasses may be clarified and rendered much more 
palatable by heating it over the fire and pouring in sweet milk, in 
the proportion of one pint to a gallon of molasses. When the 
molasses boils up once, the albumen in the milk collects all the im- 
purities in a thick scum upon the top, which must be carefully re- 
moved, and the molasses is then fit for use. BulIock^s blood is 
also used for this purpose, but milk is more agreeable in man) 
ways for domestic use. 

HOME MADE BREAD. 

The quantity of bread is greatly increased by using bran watei 
for mixing the dough. A quart of bran should be boiled for ac 
hour in water, and then strained through a sieve. 

IVORY HANDLES. 

Ivory handles should not be wet in washing. It is hard to re- 
move stains from ivory, without, at the same time, removing tho 
polish. Muriatic acid removes the polish. If the stain arises from 
ordinary wear, it may be soaked in strong lime water, and afler^ 
wards exposed to the air, repeating the operation until it becomes 
white. It should itot be exposed to the sun, or it will crack. A 
solution of muriatic acid will remove ink stains ; to restore the 
polish, rub with fine putty powder, or f^iMcr^s whiting till the pol- 
ifh returns. Another method to remove stains from ivory handles 
is to lake alum water, boil it and let it grow cold. Then soak ths 



384 itisoELLAinBotrft. 

bmndles in it for an hour, take them out and brush them well with 
a tooth brush. Dip a clean towel in pure water, squeeze it out, 
and while wet wrap it around the handles, soaked and brushed as 
above, and leave all to dry gradually. If dried too rapidly out 
of the alum water, the handles will be injured; if dried slowly, 
thfy will become white. 

TO FAflTBN SNIFB HAITOLBS. 

EUmdles of knives or forks that have come off by being put in 
hot water, by mixing powdered resin with chopped hair or tow, 
chalk, whiting or quick-lime; partly fill the hole with it, heat the 
spike of the knife or fork and force it in. Melted resin or brick- 
dust, mixed, is also used. Or put a small portion of a quill pen 
into the handle, heat the blade, put it in the quill in the handle, 
and press it in firmly. 

TO TAKE OFF STARCH OB RUST FROM FLAT IRONS. 

Tie a piece of yellow beeswax in a rag, and when the iron is 
nearly hot enough to use, rub it quickly with the wax and theo 
with a coarse cloth. 

RUST ON STIEKL IMPUEMRNTS, OR KKIVBS. 

Cover the steel with sweet oil, well rubbing it on. Let it remaio 
for forty-eight hours and then, using unslacked lime finely powdar- 
ed, rub the steel until all the rust has disappeared. 

ROUGH FLAT IRONS. 

Rub them with 6ne salt, and it will make them smooth. 

CRACKS IN STOVES. 

Ashes and common salt wet and mixed, will stop the cracks ip i 
stove and prevent smoke escaping. 

CKMRNT FOR METAL AND GLASS. 

The following cement will firmly attach any metalic substance tc 
glass or porcelain. Mix two ounces of a thick solution of glue 
with one ounce of linseed oil varnish, or three fourths of an ounes 
of Yeiioe turpentine. Boil tlieift together, stirring them until the^ 



mscKLLAKiors. 286 

auz M thoroughly as possible. The pieces cemented sijoutfl be 
tied toftetfaer for two or three days and nights. 

POUSHIKO PASTE. 

Cut hah a pound of mottled soap into pieces, mix with half a 
pound of rotten stone in powder ; put them into a saucepan with 
•uffieient cold water to cover the mixture,— about three pints ; boil 
slowly till dissolred to a paste. 

VARNITH TO PRBVBNT RUBT. 

Make a composition of fat, oil and Yaruish, mixed with four 
fifths of highly rectified spirits of turpentine. Put this varnish or 
metal witib a sponge. 

TO FRBSKRVR LAMP CHDOXKTS FROM RREAKINO. 

Place a cloth at the bottom of a large pan, fill the pan with cold 
water, and place the glass into it. Cover the pan and let its con- 
tents boil one hour. Take it off the fire and leave the glass in the 
water until it is cold. 

SOFT SOAP. 

Slice up four pounds of white bar soap into four gallons of wa> 
ter, and add a pound of sal soda. Mix, dissolve it thoroughly 
over the fire, and set aside for use. A smaller quantity can be 
made in the same proportions. 

CRRAgfNQ HINORS. 

Bub the hinges with a very little soft soap. 

ICR ON WINDOWS. 

Windows may be kept firee firom ice, and polished, by rubbtHH 
the gltfs with alcohol, with a brush or sponge. 

WATRR AND FIRR PROOF CRMRNT. 

A cement which is a good protection against weather, water and 
fire to a certain extent, is nuide by mixing a gallon of water with 
two gallons of brine, in two and a half pounds of brown sugar, and 
three pounds of oonunon salt. Put it on with a brush, like paint 
A smaller quantity can be made in the same proportions. 



2^6 WLBCmLLA^TKOiti. 



RAYS OF THE SUN. 



The rays of the sun may bo kept from penetrating a window, hf 
applying to it an onnce of powdered gum tragacanth in llie whitei 
of six eggs, well beaten. 



FIRE PROOF CEMENT. 



Two pounds of brown sugar, three pounds of line salt, one 
pound of alum ; mix thoroughly, put on like white-wash, on rooft 
of houses, fences, around fire-places, etc. 



WATER PROOF PASTE. 



Mix oil or lard with fine pieces of India rubber, simmer ovw 
a slow fire until thick as paste. 



FIRE IN THE CHIMNEY. 



Salt put on the fire in the grate below, acts chemically on the 
flaming soot above, and will often extinguish the fire in a short 
time ; or shoot a gun loaded with powder, up the chimney. 

TO DRIVE NAILS. 

Common cut nails, or screws, are easily drfven into hard wood, 
if rubbed with a little soap, either hard or soft. 

TO REMOVE GREASE FOR PAINTING. 

Before painting greasy furniture or a greasy partition, white- 
wash it over night, and 'wash all yon can of the white- wash off in 
tiie morning. This removes the grease for painting. 

TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Pulverize a little stone blue with four ounces of whiting, mix 
them with an ounce of soda dissolved in very little water and four 
ounces of soil soap, boil the mixture quarter of an hour over a 
alow fire, stirring constantly ; lay it on the marble with a brush while 
hot, and let it lie half an hour ; wash it in warm water with flannel 
and scrubbing brush, and wipe it dry. 

MAKi^O ON A TABLE. 

To remove a whitish mark lefl by a hot dish or boiling 



VIS0SL1.ANE0U8. 287 

poor lamp oil on, and rub hard with a soil doth Then poiu* on a 
little spirits of wine or cologne water, and rub dry with anotlier 
doth. 

FURNITURE. 

Beeswax and strong lye will clean and polish furniture. 

TO GIVE A FINE COLOR TO MAHOGAJnT. 

I.«t the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having 
firflt taken out any ink stains there may be, with spirits of salts. 
Use the following liquid : — Into a pint of cold-drawn linseed oil, 
put four penny-worth of alkanet root, and two penny worth of rose 
pink, in an earthen vessel ; let it remain all night, then stirring 
well, rub some of it all over the tables witli a linen rag ; when it 
has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. 

TO CLEAN PAINT. 

Smear a piece of flannel with common whiting, mixed to the con- 
sistency of common paste in warm water. Rub the surface to be 
cleaned quite briskly and wash off with pure cold water. Grease 
spots and other filth will be removed. 

SOILED CARPETS. 

Sprinkle the carpet with dry Indian meal or wheat bran and 
sweep it hard. 

SCOURmO FLOUR. 

A pound of soft soap, half a pound of soda and four quarts of 
water. Boil two hours and stir in a quart of silver sand. Uae a 
imall quantity at a time on the scrubbing brush. 

CHEAP PAINT. 

A cheap paint for a barn or rough woodwork, may be made of 
six pounds of melted pitch, one pint of linseed oil, and one pound 
of brick dust or yellow ochre. 

APERED WALLS. 

Bub the walls with a cloth sprinkled with Indian meal. Or geo^ 
It sweep off the dust and rub witl^ soft muslin cloth* 



288 IfflACELLANlCOtrS. 

TO IRON RlllltOXS. 

IIi:at %a iron not too hot, turn it on flu; Mv and draw the 
iide ol* the ribbons over it quickly, holdln;^ tin m tinnly lo the i 

TO 8TIFFRN rK.M'K. 

Hold it over potatoes or rice while hoiliji;;, and let it dry by 
Jie fire. 

TO REMOVE KROKEX SPOTS FROM VRLVKT. 

liold the wrong side of the velvet over steam, and while damp 
iJraw the wrong side across a quite clean stove pipe, or a warn 
iron several times. 

TO CUtAS BLACK LACE VAILS. 

I'lu^se are cleansed by passing them through a warm liquor of 
ox-gail and water, after which they must be rinsed in cold water, 
then rinished aa follows : Take a small piece of glue about the size 
of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, which will dissolve it, and 
when dissolved, pass the vail through it, then clap it between your 
hands and frame it or pin it out, taking care to keep the edov 
straight ami even. 

WATER SPOTS IN BLACK CRAPE. 

CUp it while wet until dry. Spread the spot on the hand damp- 
ening it, if it has previously dried, and slap it with the other till 
the spots disappear. 

TO RBXOVATB BLACK SILK. 

Sponge it with clear strong cold tea, shake it out, and hang it up 
to dry, or iron it while damp. Another way is, rip out the seaniA, 
rub it with a piece of crape, then put it in cold water twenty-fou: 
houra, ircm it with a hot iron on the wrong side ; be careful not to 
wring the nlk. 

TO TAKE OUT MILDEW. 

Take your cloth when dry, wet thoroughly with soft soap and salt, 
mixed. Let it lie a shott time, then wash it in a good suds and 
lay out to bleach. If one operation does not answer two will, 
tnd the linen will be < loar and clean as ever. 



kltlOfitLAKlBOttA. ^ft 



TO TAKE INK OUT OF LINEX. 

Dip the fiortion that is stained in pore melted tallow ; then waab 
oiit the tallow and the ink will come out with it. Lemon juice, or 
any acid will generally take out any stain. Or dip the part stained 
in cold water, fill a basin with boiling water, place a pewter plate on 
the top, lay the muslin on the plate, put salts of lemon or tartaric 
acid on the ink spots, rubbing it with the bowl of a spoon, the spoil 
will disappear. 

WASHING PRINT OR lAWN DRESSES. 

Boil a quart of bran, in a bag, in a gallon of water for an hour; 
take out the bran and divide the water in which it was boiled, pat* 
ting one-half to one gallon of warm water, in which the dresses 
are to be washed the first time, and the other half to a second gal- 
lon, in which they are to be rinsed or washed a second time ; this 
process needs neither soap nor starch, and makes the colors and 
consistency of the goods precisely the same as when new ; the ex- 
tract of bran cleans, sufficiently stiffens, and preserves the colors ; 
dry in the shade and iron on the wrong side, t 

TO RESTORE LINEN THAT HA.S LONG BEEN STAINED. 

Rub the stains on each side with wet, brown soap. Mix some 
starch to a thick paste with cold water, and spread it over tht^ 
soaped places. Then expose the linen to the sun and air, and if 
the stains have not disappeared in three or four days, rub off the 
mixture, and repeat the process with fresh soap and starch. AOer- 
wards dry it ; wet it with cold water and put it in the wash. 

PAINT SPOTS ON CLOTH, SILK, ETC. 

When the stain is not yet dried, lay the cloth on a number of 
tiucknesfles of sheet, rub on soap with a tooth brush, then dip the 
brush in warm water and wash the paint away, the sheet l>eneatii 
absorbing the water. Then wash the brush, dip it In the water, 
and with it wash the soap away. Then rub both si<l«?< of the n^ 
terial with a dry towel and hang it up to dry. If thv paint is dry 
dip a piece of flannel in spirits of turpi*ntine, rub the stain till r%» 
movad, then wash out the turpentine (|(ii<kly with soap and wi^Ur, 

II 



290 litficfttLUhBotts. 

or if the color CB very delicate with warm water alone, or the 
pontine will Ifeave a stain of itself. Spots of paint, or of pitch or 

tar an}*wbere, may be remoyed with spirits of turpentine. 

«. 

WA8HIXO OOLORKD MUSLINS. 

To set the color of muslin, pour boiling water on the dress be- 
fore washing, and allow it to remain till quite cold. For waaLing 
^:een or blue muslin, take a little sugar of lead, dissolve it in » 
gallon of cold water, dip the dress in it, let it remain quarter < 1 
an hour, then wring it out and send it to be washed. Have no 
s:;ar8 or scratches on your hand, and throw the water away im- 
mediately, for the sugar of lead is a rank poison 

TO. CLEAN SILK. 

Take a quarter of a pound of soft soap, a tea-spoonful of bran- 
dy, and a pint of gin ; mix all well together, and strain through a 
cloth. With a sponge or flannel, spread the mixture on eadi side 
of the silk without creasing it ; wash it in two or three waters, and 
iron it on the wrong side. It will look as good as new, and die 
process will not injure silks of even the most delicate color. 

TO CLEAN KID GLOVBS. 

First see that your hands are clean, then put on your gloves, 
and wash them as though you were washing your hands, in a basin 
of turpentine until qtfite clean ; hang them up in a warm place, or 
where there is a current of air, which will carry off the smell of 
the turpentine. 

ANOTHER METHOD.' 

Put the gloves on your hands, and rub them lightly, but thor- 
oughly, wherever soiled; with apiece of flannel, soaked in benzine. 
As they dry off, rub them over with pearl powder, and tixpose 
them to the air to take off the smell of 'benzine. This is the waj 
they are cleaned by French cleaners, and if done, before 'they are 
Uto muTh soiled, they 'can bo made to lookve^y sice by thii 
method. * ■ "••' -••^- -'- :' ■ ■>■;■• *Kn..^ i . <• 

IRON STAINS. 

These may be removed with juice of lemon, or of lorrel Ioatm^ 



MISCKLLANEOirS. 291 

but if these fiul, moisten the stain spots with water and rub on a 
little powdered oxalic acid.' Wash the acid off thoroughly soon 
after it is put on» or it will eat the cloth. Also wash it from your 
hands, and keep it away from children, for it is poisonous in the 
month. Ink stain may be taken out in this way. It must be no- 
Cioed however that acids had better only be used on white as thej 
▼ill discharge pink, lilac, and some other colors. 

GREASB SPOTS. 

An ounce of pulverized borax put into a quart of boiling water 
and bottled for use, will be found invaluable for removing grease 
spots from woolen goods. 

INK SPOTS IN BOOKS. 

Ink (m printed leaves of books, may be removed by a solntion 
of oxalic add in water. The lamp-black of printers* ink is not affect- 
ed by it. 

GRBASB ON A LEATHER COYERED BOOK. 

To remove this, rub the leather with white flannel briskly, and 
repeat until it disappears. This will remove grease from anything 
that will bear rubbing. 

TO REMOVE SPERMACETI SPOTS. 

First scrape off all you can, then place a piece of brown paper 
on the garment, or floor, covering the spots, and put a warm iron 
on the paper until the oil shows through, continue until no oil is 
drawn by the paper. 

MABKENO INK. 

Put a little lunar caustic (nitrate of silver) into half a table- 

poonful of gin, and in a day or twoit is fit for use. Wet the linen 

with common soda 'and dry it befoi'e using the ink on it. The ool^ 

or will be faint at first, but will become durable on exposure to 

IIm tun or fii«« 

GBBBN INK 

Mix a folutioii of the neutral stdpbate of indigo, wttb a solutioB 



393 MIMELLAHBOU*. 

•f bjcbrotnkto of poUib, until the ilMUod ahide it olitaiitwl, Am 
•Id k link muoUgfl. A Mlution of verdigria also form* gnm 



Ifix ia • glaM bottle, one onoce of pure powdered Rnmiaa 
UiM, and Ml ottDoe tnd k-half to two ouncei of conceDtnted raari' 
ttie mad. After tw«a^-faui houra, dilute the nUBS with ■ lofl- 
wit qiiuit)^ of water. 



Grind gold leaf with white honey upon aalabof porphyr;, with I 
mailer, undl it ia reduced to an impalpable powder in a putjr condi- 
tion; this golden honef-paate ia then difiliaed in water which dia- 
•olvM the honey, and the gold falla to the bottom in the form of Terj' 
fine powder. W«ah off the honey CBrefully, mix the gold powder 
with gum arable mucilage. When used allow it to dry on the pa- 
per, when it may be made brilliant by bumiahing it with an agate 
humiaher. Silver ink ia prepared in the same way by using tUver 



It ia (aid that red wafers, and alao the rooU of bUok hellebon 
will destroy them. They may be caught in Tusela partly filled 



KATS AND MUn. 

Tou can bare a little aport, by placing ■ barr^ widi a little meal 
sra tliey ran, two or three ni^ta, and then SII it a. third 
rater, and ^okle the meal two or tiiree incbei deep<aa- 
of it. Tou may find eight or ten in the barrel in the 
; if tbey are jdenty. Yon can uae a araooth kettle, fillii% 
hin five <« nx inehea of the top with water and oovvring 
aoe with bran, or eoaaT. 



oasoe of gnm oanqthor, and one onnoe of powderad rad 
macerated in eight onncea of itrong alcohol for aeranl 



HIBCELLAKSOUff. 298 

days, then strained. With this tincture, the fbrs or cloth are 
sprinkled over, and then rolled up in sheets. Or give them a 
good beating, and do them up tightly in several thicknesses of 
paper, so that one covers the cracks of the other ^ or in linen oi 
cotton so that the moth cannot get in. 

BSD BUGS. 

\Va.oh the bedstead with salt and watef, filling the cracks wheri 
tltey fv^quent, with salt. It is preferable to " ointments," 

GRICKBTS. 

Put Sctoch snitflf in the holes where they come out. 

NOSBOATS. 

Fl^ -cers shouM not be cut during sunshine or kept exposed to 
the fh:o, or tied tightly together in bundles. When putting them 
in w^ter, cut the stems squarely across with a knife, scissors close 
the '^nbes thrc^igh which the water ascends. The water should be 
char-^ed everr day or once in two days, and a thin slice cut off the 
end of the rt^dk every time. 

TO PRESERVE THE FLOWERS OF A BOUQUET. 

^ «t a spoonful of charcoal powder be added to the ^ater, and 
t^ flowers will last as long as they would on the plant, without any 
teed of o/ianging the water or taking any trouble at all. 

HOW LADIES CAN MAKE TIIEIR OWN PERFUMES. 

If we spread fresh, unsalted butter upon the inside of two 
desseH-plates, and then Jll one of the plates with gathered fra- 
grant blossoms of clematis, covering them over with the second 
greased plate, we shall find that after twenty-four hours the grease 
has become fragrant. The blossoms, though separated from the 
parent stem, do not die for some time, but live to exhale odor» 
which is absorbed by the fat. To remove the odor from the fat, the 
fat must be scraped off the plates and put into alcohol ; the odor theo 
leaves the grease and enters into the spirit, which thus becomes 
** scent, ^' and the grease again becomes colorloss The flower 
fiirmers of the Var, follow precisely this method, ou a very large 



294 MHOlLLAirEOVft. 

•c&le, making but a littie poractioal nmtion, with the followiiig 
flowers: roM, onuige, acada, ^olet, jasmine, tabe*ro8e, and 
jonquil. 

TIMCTUKS OF BOSBS. 

Take the leayes of the common rose (centifolio) and place, with* 
Mt pressing them, in a common bottle ; pour some good spirits of 
irine upon them, dose the botde, and let it stand till required for 
use. This tincture will keep for years, and yield a perfume little 
inferior to attar of roses ; a few drops of it will suffice to impreg- 
nate the atmosphere of a room with a 'delicious odor. Common 
vinegar is greatly improved by a very small quantity being added 
to it. 

POT POURHI 

Take three handfiils of orange flowers, three of cloves, 
carnations, or pinks, three of damask roses, one of marjoram, one 
of lemon thymes, six bay leaves, a handful of rosemary, one of 
myrtle, half a handful of mint, one of lavender, the rind of a lemon, 
and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop these all up, and plar« 
them in layers, with bay salt between the layers, until the jar is full. 
Do not forget to throw in the bay salt with each new ingredient put 
in, should it not be convenient to procure at once all the required 
articles. The perfume is very fine. 

BASTBR BC»OS. — 1. 

Immerse eggs in hot water a few minutes, inscribe names or dates 
etc., on the shell with the end of a tallow candle or with grease, 
then place them in a pan of hot water saturated with cochineal or 
other dye-woods ; the parts over which the tallow has passed being 
impervious to the dye, the eggs come out presenting white inscrip- 
tions on colored grounds. Or boil the eggs hard and paint subjects 
on them with a camePs. hair brush, or etch them with a steel pen io 
India ink. Or dye the shells first, then scrape off the dye in any 
design desired. 

BASTBR BOOS.— 2. 

An egg boiled in the coat of an onion will turn to a beautifol 



lUSC^LLAK^OtTS. 295 

brown color. To give a blue color, boil the egge in powdered 
indigo with the addition of a tea-spoonful of dilute sulpluric acid. 
To give an egg a mottled appearance, with bright colors blended, 
and contrasted, obtain pieces of silk of the brightest colors, cut them 
into bits an inch long, half an inch wide, add a few chips of log- 
wood and a little tumeric ; let the egg be well inbedded in this so 
that the silk ma^ ibrai a thick layer round it, sew it up in verj 
roaTM brown pi^r and boil it half an hour or more. 



tiv 



ROOD FOR INVAIJOS 



"Hie diet for iovalids depends so mach upon the cooditioB ol 
the patient, that only the most general directiona can be giren; 
the special application mast he left in evepf case to the judgmeni 
of the nurse. 

Neatness, cleanliness, and promptitude are the great requisites 
in a sick chamber. The best prepared food is spoiled by irant of 
care and punctuality in placing it before tbe patient. 

When persons are ill, their senses are often pretematurally acute ; 
sliglit marks of neglect which would not be noticed at another 
time, become exti-euiely oflfenaive ; and a few minutes delay, noi 
only seems unpardonable, but is sometimes really injurious. Pa- 
tience, tACt, and natural kindness of disposition are essential qual- 
ities in a good nurse, and when to these are added firmness sn<l 
good judgment, the sum total of excellence in this linu has bi'cn 
riiaehed. As a general rule however, one half the nurses injure 
their patients by absurd restrictions, and the other half by foolisli 



This simple refreshment is invaluable in sickness, and is mads 
with little trouble and less expense, yet it is scarcely ever prepared 
exactly right. 

One table-spoonful of line Indian or oat-meal, mixed imootb 
with cold water and a sslt-spoon of salt ; pour upon this a [nnt of 
boiling water and turn into a saucepan to boil gently for half an 
hour; thin it with boiling water if it thickens too inuih, and stir 
frequently; when it is done, a table-spoonfu! of cream or a little 
Mw milk may be put in t> cool it, after strtuning, bat if th^|wti<iA 



#ooi> Fon mvAUi>ft. 297 

0tomach is weak it is best without either. Some persons like H 
sweetened and a little nutmeg added, but to many it is more palat- 
able plain. 

PANADA. 

Break ap three arrow-root crackers into small pieces ; pour ap« 
on them boiling water and cover close for a minute, then add s 
lea -spoon of white sugar and « little pure milk. It is an cxccllcnl 
breakfast or supper for a child or an invalid. Instead of the milk, 
(he juice of a lemon ma^ ^^ squeezed in and another tea-spoon of 
sugar added. 

sopt" toast 

Some invalids like ^^is very much indeed, and nearly all do 
when it is nicely mad« 

Toast well, bat n^t too brown, a couple of thin slices of bread * 
out them on a w/^rm plate and pour over bailing water ; cover 
(quickly with anir^her plate of the same size, and drain the water 
off; removfy tl^s upper plate, butter the toast, put it in the oven 
one mina(/«, «tid then cover again with a hot plate and serve at 
once. 

BOG TOAST. 

Makft % fod toast, and have ready one or more fresh eggs which 
have n^q boiled twenty minutes; remove the shells, cut them in 
»Uce4 Sid place upon the toast, with a little butter, pepper and 
salt r without the butter they may be eaten with impunity by the 
mo«t delicate invalid, as an egg cooked for twenty minutes is real- 
ly more easy of digestion than one that is technically boiled soft. 

CALVES-FOOT JELLY. 

< 

Boil four nicely cleaned calves-feet in three quarts of water un- 
til reduced to one, ver}' slowly: strain and set away until cold, 
then take off the fat from the top and remove the jelly into a stew* 
pan, avoiding the settlings, and adding half a pound of white pow- 
dered sugar, tLe juice of two lemons, and the whites of two eggs-^ 
the latter to make it transparent. Boil all together a few momentf 
Mid set away in bowls or glasses ; it is excellent in a sick room. 

18* 



2d8 FOOD ton ThtrAXMu. 



A SICK BREAKFAST. 

A smaU waiter, covered with a clean tea-napkin ; a cup d nios 
irarin tea. two slices of thin, lightly-browned toast, a tinj pat of 
ifweet butter, and a small saucer of fruit or jelly of* some kind, 
auaya is reiy nice, if strawberries or other fresh fruits are c:t id 
iea£oc 

A SICK DINNER. 

The thick, tender part of a mutton chop broiled, a roast mealj 
potato, a little jelly, a slice of Graham bread, and half of an " in- 
valid^s cup pudding." 

A SICK TKA. 

A bowl of cracker panada, or a cup of weak black tea, one 7t 
tvfp slices of Graham bread, with a little butter, and fruit if allow- 
ed. 

INVALID CUP PUDDING. 

One table-spoonful of flour, one egg ; mix with cold milk, and 
a pinch of salt to a batter. Boil fifteen minutes in a buttered 
cup. Eat with sauce, finiit, or plain sugar. 

BBSF TEA. 

Cut up half a pound rump steak into small pieces, and put it 
into a bowl of lukewarm water ; cover it, and set it where it will 
gradually heat. In about half an hour, turn it into a lined sauce- 
pan, and cover close, and set it on the range to boil ; skim it well 
as it reaches the boiling point, and after boiling up once or twice, 
withdraw it from the fire and let it simmer gently in a cooler place 
for an hour. Strain, and season as preferred. In winter this wiD 
keep good, in a cellar, several days ; but in summer it is required 
fresh every day, even if kept in a refrigerator. Mutton brodi ii 
made in the same way. 

S07T BOILED BOOS. 

Fresh eggs for invalids who like them cooked soft, should b«pal 
m a«pan of hoUing wat«r, and set on a part of th« rang* whan 



FOOD FOB nrTALIIMI. 299 

they will not boil, for several minutes. At the end of that time 
(hey will be lijce jelly, perfectly soft, but beautifully done, and 
quite digestible by even weak stomachs. 

INVALID APPLE PIE. 

Shoe u| one or more nice, tart apples in a saucer, sweeten witii 
white sugar, and cover with a moderately thick slice of bread bu^ 
tered slightly on the under side. When the bread is browned, 
the applaf, ii of a tender kind, and thinly sliced, will be done. 

ROAST APPLBS. 

These can nearly always be eaten with safety, when they are eat- 
en with relish. Choose good sized, fair apples of a tart, and juicy, 
but not sour kind. Rub them off clean, and put them in rather a 
slow oven, which may increase in warmth, so that they shall be 
thoroughly done in an hour. When so soft that the savory pulp 
breaks through the browned skin in every direction, take them 
out, sift white sugar over them, and carry one at a time on a China 
saucer to the patient. 

LBMONADB. 

This is invaluable in fevers, and also in rheumatic affections. 
Rub the lemons soft, cut them half through the centre and squeeze 
out the juice, take out the seeds with a tea-spoon. Put two table- 
spoonsful of white sugar to each lemon, and fill up with cold o» 
boiling water, according as you desire the lemonade, hot, or cold. 
Two medium sized lemons will make a pint or more of lemonade. 

APPLE WATER. 

Roast two tart apples until they are soft, put them in a pitcher, 
})our upon them a pint of cold water and let it stand in a cool place 
an hour. It is used in fevers and eruptive diseases, and does nol 
require sweetening. 

STEWED PRUNES. 

These are extremely good in small pox, measles, •carlet feTer» 
and the like, both as food and medicine. Get the box prunes, m 
tiiey win not need washing, and beeause iliejr are generally of 



800 FOOD FOK INTALIDtt; 

a much better quality than the open sort. Soak them for an hour 
iu cold water, then put them in a porcelain lined saucepan with a 
little more water if nscesaary, and a little coffee crushed -sugar. 
Dover, and let them stew slowly an hour, or until they are swollen 
arge and quite soft. They are excellent as an accompaniment to 
breakfast for a sick woman. 

DRT TOAST. 

Cut youi slices of bread even, and not too thick. Toast before 
t clear fire, a nice light brown. Cover with a napkin, and serve 
quickly while it is hot. Dry toast is not always good for invalids, 
especially when the bowels are confined, and it is desirable to keep 
them open. In this case, Graham bread not toasted is much better. 

TAPIOCA CUP FUDDINO. 

This is very light, and delicate for invalids. An even table- 
spoonful of tapioca, soaked for two hours in nearly a cup of new 
milk. Stir into this the yolk of a fresh egg, a little sugar, a grain 
of salt and bake in a cup for fifteen minutes. A little jelly may 
be eaten with it, if allowed, or a few fresh strawberries. 

MILK TOAST. 

This is a favorite dish with nearly all sick people when they are 
getting well. Cut stale baker's bread in rather thin slices, toast a 
fine brown, and lay them iu a deep dish. Meanwhile, boil a quart 
of new milk, in a lined saucepan, into which you have first put a 
very little cold water to prevent burning. As soon as it boils, pour 
it over the toast, cover, and serve quick. For an invalid, no butter 
should be put in the milk. Some people put in a thickening of 
Hour, but this spoils it to our thinking. 

THICKENED MILK. 

MTith a little milk, mix smooth a table-spoonful of flour and a 
pinch of salt. Pour upon it a quart of boiling milk, and when i( 
is thoroughly amalgamated put all back into the saucepan, and boil 
up once, being careful not to burn, and stirring aU the time, to 
keep it perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Serve with siioet 
of dry toast. It is excellent iu diarrhea and becomes a specific by 
scorching the fiour before mixing with the milk. 



FOOD FOB INVALID!. 30 1 

OTSTBR SOUP. 

Bfake a little broth of lean veal, or mutton, simmer with it some 
raot, or essence of celery. Strain it, put again on the fire, and 
when it boils throw in the oysters with their liquor, and a trifle of 
pepper, and salt. Serve as soon as it comes to a boil on lifttlt 
■qnares, or sippets of toast. 

BROILBD TBNDBBLOIN 

This is a choice piece from a sirloin steak, and is highly enjoyed 
w hen the patient is becoming convalescent. Cut out the round 
piece from the inside of a sirloin steak, boil it quick over a bright 
fire, upon a smaU, heated gridiron, turn it, with its gravy, upon a 
piece of freshly made toast, sprinkle with salt, and pepper, but no 
butter, place between two hot plates, ajid serve directly. A ten- 
der mutton chop,^or half of the breast of a chicken may be served 
the same way, only the chicken m\\ require longer, and somewhat 
slower cooking. 

BOLK AND EOOS. 

Beat up a fresh egg, with a grain of salt, pour upon it a pint of 
foiling milk, stirring all the time. Serve hot, with or without 
toast. It is good in case of weakness for an early breakfast, oi 
for a traveller before Parting on a journey. 



i,jr I 






FOOD FOR INFANTS. 



FOOD FOR INFAKT8. 



It is A Mid, and significant fact, that at least half the children M 
the present time, are deprived of their proper sustenance, and 
loft to the tender mercies of wet nurses, or the bottle. Between 
the two evils, it is difficult to say which is the least; but unless a 
superior nurse can be found-— one intelligent, and thoroughly clean 
in her personal habits — ^we should say, choose the last, and bring 
it up by hand. 

It is the opinion of the best physicians, and the conviction is 
borne out by every mother^s experience, that the moral, mental, 
and spiritual, as well as physical condition of a child is greatly in- 
fluenced during its nursing period. Mothers who nurse their own 
children know that it is of the greatest importance to the quiet and 
healthful condition of the child, that they should be free from aU 
sources of agitation, anxiety, and irritability. Overwork, giving 
way to fretfiilness, or being subjected to the unreasonable temper 
an(f caprices of others, frequently induces a state of mind that showf 
itsell plainly in the uneasiness and disquiet it produces in the in- 
fant. And would be seen with still greater distinctness were women 
accuscomed to trace results more strictly to their causes. 

If tfiis is the case with the mother, if her mental and spiritual 
condition finds itself reflected so minutely in the lights and shadows 
of the litde life which is dependent upon her, why should it not re- 
ceive a coloring firom the milk which it derives from a dull, coarse, 
appetite-loving wet nurse of the ordinary stamp ? Two thirds of 
these nurses make a necessity of strong tea and coffee, and malt 
liquor, two or three times a day ; they are often anything bat 
icmpulous in their personal habits and so acOUitopied to tb^ ex" 



I»00l) f oft lifFAKtS. SOS 

ehnse of a violeni will b^ virtue of their office, w t^ be unwilling 
to beat the slightest control or contradiction. Tlvw« are not the 
influences which a thought (ul mother would like to Ivive her child 
drink in with its milk. 

We believe it to be a m'sA)rtunc, the extent of which is not at 
all realized, when the mother cannot nurse her own child. Tbf 
niother^s milk contains all the elements necessary for its propc i 
growth in every direction, and no substitute can be found for it ; 
but where this is Impossible, units'*, as before remarked, a verj 
superior nurse can be obtained, it is safer to trust to the simple 
food, which at least sustain life, and do no hurt if given at right 
times and in proper quantities, leaving the mental and spiritual ac- 
tivities unimpeded, though probably subject to a slower growth 
than if aided by the sympathetic magnetism of the mother^s na- 
ture. 

STARCHY FOOD. 

Such as arrowroot, sago, corn-starch, and the like, is commonly 
held to be very healthy and nutritious for infants, yet the experi- 
ence of every physician, furnishes numerous instances of feeble, 
sickly children that are so fed, while the number is small that sur- ' 
vive it. The reason of this is, that the digestive organs of infantf 
are not sufficiently powerful to convert the starchy matter into 
nourishment; it therefore only serves to clog, and impede the ac- 
tion of the system, while the little victim is gradually being starved 
on the trifle of sustenance which it can obtain, from whatever su- 
gar and milk is given with its other food. 

ENGLISH ** PAP. 

English and French babies, when brought up by hand, are fed 
almost altogether 6n '* pap, ^V which is made, in England, in the fol- 
lowing way : 

Boiling water is poured on a small piece of the crumby part of 
white, light bread. This is covered up for a moment, and iben 
the water poured off. The soflened bread is then put in a litde 
porcelain stewpan, with a trifle more of water, and allowed to boil 
up, and i is then a pulp. A lump of white sugar and a little cold 
milk, addedf brings it precisely up to the ideas of most youn^ 



I 



804 Foot) irott n^PAiftft. 

Britishers, who grow very stout and healthy ujion it. This is el- 
oellcnt food where the mother is capable of partly nursing her 
ofafld 

FrciM h pap is made of floar instead of bread« which is decided- 
J objootionable, as it is not only less agreeable, but much Icsf 
Mflily digested. 

cow's Mnx. 

A diet of cows' milk exclusively is npt good ; it is too rich slvA 
▼ery pru vocative of eruptive diseases. But if the bottle is pn- 
ferred to spoon-feeding, half of one good cow's milk may be giv<»n, 
diluted with half of boiling water and sweetened slightly witb 
white sugar. 

An excellent change from this consists of a thin strained gruel 
from the bcst'prepared barley, with a little mjlk and sugar added. 

A little sugar is necessar}' in infants' food, but be particularU 
canjful not to make it sweet, as this provokes continual thirst, as 
well as disorders the child's stomach. 

infant's broth 

Afler the baby is three months old, it may occasionally be treat- 
ed to a little clear chicken, or mutton broth, made in the following 
way. Cut up a pound of lean mutton into small pieces, and put 
them i.ito a small jar, cover tliem with cold water, set the jar in a 
kettle of warm water, let it come to boiling point, and simmer the 
mutton until the strength is extracted. One pound of meat should 
make a quart of broth — simmer at least six hours*— sti*ain and put 
in a trifle of salt, but no other spice. Treat part of a chioken 
in the same way, for chicken broth. 

BABT FUDDIKO. 

Grate a little stale bread, pour some boiling milk upon it, oorei, 
and when it becomes a pulp, stir into it the yolk of an egg, and a 
grain of salt. The quantity should fill a tea-cup, m which boil it 
fifteen minutes. 

B8SENTXAL8. 

Warm, sensible clothing, quiet, with food and sleep at regular 
interyals are the essentiali to bualth and comfort of babjes. 



FOOD FOB CTHLDBMN. 305 

FOOD FOR YOUNG dlLDREN. 

The great danger in feeding young children lies not so much in 
the food, as in its preparation, or want of preparation. A hard 
indigestible potato is bad for them, and a little tcndei't 9t<?vred 
meat is good, but if the potato were mashed, and moaly, and 
the meat hard, and tough, the case would be just the reverse. 

Th?. principal danger is in their swallowing indigestible sub- 
stances, and whether these are hard apples, or lumpy potatoes, 
tough meat, or sour bread, ricli cake, or hickory nuts, makes very 
little difference, the irritation, and derangement produced is the 
same. 

Meat for children under the age of ten years, should be cooked 
very tender, and cut up very small, or given in the form of soup. 
Potatoes should be mashed, apples oasted, or stewed, and if 
oread and milk could form their breakfast, and some kind of 
mushfWith milk, their supper, they would be all the better for it, 
for the rest of their lives. 

CHILDREN 8 PIE. 

Cover the bottom of a pie dish with slices of bread and butter, 
cover it with fresh berries, sprinkled with sugar, or with stewed 
fruit, fresh or dried. Set it in the oven fifteen or twenty minutec. 
Sift a little sugar over it, when it comes out. 

BROWN MUSH FOR SUPPER. 

Stir into a quart of boiling water, a tea-spoonful of salt, and 
(iraham ftour enough to make it as thick as Indian mush. Let it 
lioil gently half an hour, keeping it covered. Eat it with cream, 
jT milk, and sugar. 

BREAD AND BULK. 

Cut, or break stale bread up into small pieces, and let them come 
to a boil in milk. It makes an excellent breakfast for chiidreo 
with a slice of toast, or without. 

CRANBERRIES. 

Should be stewed soft, stranded through a colander, which wjll 



806 LABISS' LUNCHES. 

pass every thing but the skin ; boild up a second dmc with Un 
•ugar, and set away to cool. They may then be eaten with m- 
punity liy the moiit delicate children. * 



LADIES' LUNCHES. 

These are not at all difficult, and the less fuss and preparatioi 
there is for them, the better ; they may of course be made very 
elaborate, but in this case, it has become the fashion for ladies to 
engage a private room and lunch, for a certain number of guests, 
at a stylish restaurant, the hour, and extensive preparation, inter- 
fering with domestic economies, and regulations of the household, 
if allowed to take place at home. 

Ordinarily however, '* ladies' lunches,'' are simple affiiirs, delicate, 
recherche, and more famous for the wit they evoke, and the enjoy- 
ment they create, than for the dishes, which are not unfrequently 
quite incongruous. ** I will come," says one, ** if you will have some 
of your delicious chicken salad;" ** and I," says another, ** if 
you can persuade your cook to make an omelette," '• and I, — I 
want a cup of your chocolate," exclaims a third. 

But whatever be the bill of fare, let it be such, that the presence 
of the hostess will not be required in the kitchen, nor a large at- 
tendance of servants in removing dishes. 

Many of the pleasantest lunches are quite impromptu ; one oi 
more ladies call, — ^gentlemen nearly always lunch down town, in 
cities, — and the hostess without ceremony invites them to share hei 
. mid-day meal. In such a case, no apology is necessary for very 
shnple fare, the friendliness of the invitation being worth much 
more than variety, and costliness of dishes. 

A dish of poached eggs and boiled ham, will answer for such an 
occasion, or delicate rice cakes, added to the cold ham, and chickens 
or sliced tomatoes with tender broiled lamb chops ; all dishes easily 
and cheaply prepared, and sure to be appreciated. A box of 
sardines is useful to have on hand* but we do not consider then 
healthfii eating, and recommend them only in case of emergmcy. 

To 1^ ladies' lunch, not more than six or eight guests shoiUd l^ 



nrritedy and &e fbod should be all placed on the table at one time 
tea, ooffee, or chocolate being served from a side table bj a ler 
Tant. 

BILL OF FARB. 

Roast chicken garnished, ham sandwiches, pancakes with jellr. 
Prendi roUs; potato balls, or croquettes, wine jell^, lady cake, iAii 
lets, and oranges. 

Lobster salad, mixed pickles, French bread, cold tongue, mar- 
lualade, meringues^ oranges, and claret punch. 

Chicken pie, compote apples, or apples stewed whole ; cold ham 
garnished with sliced lemon and parsley, bread, biscuits, pickled 
cucumbers, tartlets, sponge cake with a custard poured over it, 
and whip on top of it, making floating island; and bottled 
peaches, or strawberries. 

Potted salmon, and pigeon pie, currant and raspberry jelly, 
delicate biscuits, celery or salad of lettuce, cheese cakes, cocoa 
nut cake, and fresh fruit in season. 

Gold roast turkey, pickled oysters, cranberry jelly, celery, 
French rolls, small Englisa mince pies, (made without meat), jel- 
ly cake, and grapes, or preserved pineapple. 

Cold pigeons which have been stuffed and roasted, little oystei 
patties, arvol au vente, blackberry jelly, and pickled cauliflower, 
with slioes of red beet root ; blanc mange, with tarts, and cream, 
fruit cake, with grapes, and wine. 



A STAG SUPPER. 

A stag supper is one to which only gentleman are invited, and 
it is necessary, therefore, to pay particular attention to the dishes 
which gentlemen usually prefer. The centre of the table should 
be occupied by a large punch-bowl, filled with claret punch, and 



308 A STAG StJPPER. 

•et in a deep resenroir, containing blocks of clear ice. At the top 
of the table should be a cold roast turkey witli a striiir^ ofsausagei 
round its neck ; at the bottom, a boiled turkey, siufied .with o}'^ 
ten. On one side of the table should be a large chicken pie, of> 
munented with pastry, on the other, a pair of roast ducks, oue 
•taffed with onions, the other with pnines. At opposite oomen, 
toreens of pickled oysters, a cold boiled ham, and cold tongue, 
garnished with slices of lemon, and green parsley. French bread, 
pickles, pineapple, cheese, sardines and champagne jcUy, where- 
ever it is possible to put them ; abo oval dishes of lobster salad., 
potted meat sandwiches, and pickled salmon. Celery, gravies 
apples, oranges, ice cream, and cream cakes, or Charlotte Boase 
Beverages, according to taste and means. 



4 



NEW YEAR'S TABLES, PARTIES, Etc. 



It does not oome within the scope of this work to give dirco* 
lions for the getting up of elaborate and expensive entertainments. 
People who do these things, generally have a professed Cook, or 
have their table supplied from some fashionable restaurant. We 
propose only to furnish useful hints to plain housekeepers with 
limited resources, and shall therefore not go beyond those simple 
means of entertainment that are within the power of most Ameri- 
can families. 

NBW YBAR^S TABUS 

The custom of receiving calls is becoming so very general out 
of New York city, that a few hints on the method of setting the 
table for the occasion may not come amiss. 

What is called a substantial table, is out of fashion now, except- 
ing among old-fashioned people, but it must still be remembered 
that as it is the taste of gentlemen, and not of ladies that are to be 
cousulted on this day, sweets, cake and the like, should be subor- 
dinated to chicken salad, pickled oysters, potted salmon, sardines, 
and the like, which gentlemen generally greatly prefer. 

An average table displays one handsomely ornamented cake, 
raised high on a china, glass or silver /?^eau, in the centre, snp* 
ported by bouquets of flowers. All the dishes are cold, of course, 
and may be decorated with little bits of evergreen, with flowers or 
with lemon in slices. Small biscuit sandwiches made of tongue 
and ham, or ham and potted veal, are very good. Pickled oys- 
ters, are indispensable, and sardines, and chicken, or lobster salad, 
will be found very popular. Jellies, fruit, one or more baskets of 
mixed cake, and whatever is thought requisite in the way of coi^ 
fectionery, should be arranged tastefully so as to produce the licsi 



SlO IfBW TXAB^S tABtlES, PABtlltd, MTC 

effect. A dish of oranges ornamented with tafts of green moMi 
and tprigfi of tearlet geranium looks very nice. 

It would be much better if no wines were offered New Yearns daj, 
-if beverages were limited to coffee, lemonade, and cold water; 
bnt as most persons seem to think otherwise, it would be Quixotic 
lo attempt here to stem the tide of fashionable opinion. Cherrjt 
M Bourbon, and claret punch are in great demand where thej 
are to be found. Coffee is always served from a side table. 

A FAMILT DINNER. BILL OF FARE FOR TEN. 

Soup is not considered so indispensable to even elegant dinners 
ic this oountrj, as in England and France ; though it is gcmaraUy^ 
even here, the first course. For our family dinner party however, 
we have no soups ; but we have two kinds of fish, — baked salmon 
trout, with anchovy sauce, and boiled white fish, with caper sauce. 
We have, also, small side dishes of lobster and chicken salad ; pick 
es, and glass dishes of white, crimped celery, and cranberry jelly 
Hie fish is followed by a roast turkey with its necklace of sau- 
sages, or a roast fowl, and dish of stewed pigeons, ; and these are 
accompanied by an army of vegetables, sauces, and gravies. A 
boiled ham makes it appearance, but it is chiefly ornamental. The 
next course is plum pudding, and then comes a dessert of white, 
and black grapes, oranges, apples, and nuts, Charlotte Russe, or 
cream pufls, and finally, coffee. Sometimes we have wine, and 
sometimes we donH, at family dinners. 

A SMALL SUFFER PARTT. BILL OF FARE FOR FIFTY PERSONS. 

Have at one end of the table a tureen of pickled oysters, at the 
other, a large dish of chicken salad. Side dishes should contain 
neat slices of ham, tongue, cold chicken, and sardines, ornamented 
with sprigs of parsley, slices of lemon, red beet root, cut in stars, 
or the curled leaves of celery. Chicken salad may be garcished 
with egg rings, and celery hearts, cut in shapes, and stuck all 
over the surface. Two pyramids of ice cream will occupy the 
spaces next to the top and bottom dishes, and will be followed by 
two handsome baskets of cake, which will just leave room for a 
pyramid of <^nfectionery, or a high glass dish of fruit in the cen- 
tre. Filling up the comers, w'U be glass dishes of jelly, Chaiiotto 



mtl9 TBAb's parties, BEFR:ESnMKNXS, ETC. 311 

Russe in forms, and little dishes of pickles, and plates of biscuit 
everywhere ; there should also be at least two dishes of mottoes, 
And two of almonds and raisins. Care should be taken to have 
abundance of plates, saucers, spoons, and napkins. Hot coffee 
ihould be served round at the beginning, and champagne punch at 
the cIop<c; or if not that, claret punch. It is a good idea to hav€ 
an immense punch bowl of iced lemonade, for the guests to go tc 
whenever they choose. 

REFRESHMENTS. 

For sociables, receptions, and small evening companies, re- 
freshments are generally handed round, and are of a very simple 
character. A variety of cake with jelly, and ioe cream, are per- 
haps the most frequently employed, with or without wine. Coffee, 
and little biscuit sandwiches, with cake, and fruit, are sometimes 
substituted. 

At simple receptions, a cup of tea, or coffee, and a little cake, 
or biscuit is all that is required. 

Do not, however, confine yourself to lady-fingers, or any of the 
polite forms of starvation. If you have only tea and cake, let the 
tea be good, and the cake good ; and allow your visitors the priv- 
ilege of having their cups refilled. 

A CHIIJ>REN^S PARTY. 

Let the children give a party at least once a year, and make out 
a programme *of amusements for them ; a magic lantern is very 
useful, in addition to games and dancing. Liet the children them- 
selves principally do the honors, it will teach them how to receive 

md entertain guests. 
It is best to have a table set for the children, and make the re- 

icshments as light and simple as possible. Little baked custards 
ill cups, apple snow, ice cream, baskets of kisses, lady-fingers, 
and *' Christmas cakes for good children ^^ [see Sweet Cakes], small 
apple tarts, oranges, and mottoes, with water and lemonade, con- 
stitute a sufficient, and to juveniles, a most attractive variety. It 
is still better if the mottoes are not given them to eat, but are 
fewer in quality, and sufficiently handsome to carry home as a 
iouvemr. The party should close with a lively game before twelye 



S12 PABTIXS, BEFBESHMEKTS, BTC. " 

o^dock, 10 that the little ones may be at home bj midiiii^bi at 
leafi. 

A CHRISTBIAS PARTT. 

A Ghriitmaa party, which includes a Christmas tree, is the most 
delightful of all parties ; it is not particulariy fashionable, and it if 
liarticalarly unceremonious, but on that account all the more en- 
joyable. 

At fint sight, a Christmas tree, with a gift for every person in 
. iied, would seem to involve great expense, but it need not, if 
people will content themselves with famishing the tree with audi 
gifts as their means will admit. Twenty-five dollars will purchase 
a laige tree, decorate it with flowers and lights, and supply pretty 
and amusing gifts for fifty or more peraons. Fifteen or twenty 
dollars more, will supply all the refreshments, in the shape of cake, 
and ice cream, and home made jellies, or fruits needed. An im- 
pro^sed Santa Claus distributes the gifts by lot at a certain hour, 
then follows refreshments, and the evening closes with dancing, 
ftnd perhaps a game of blind man^s buff. 

Of course » family and other Christmas trees, may be made as 
elaborate and expensive in their furnishing, as means will allow ; 
we have only thrown oat the soggestion, to show how cbei^ify it 
ma) be done. 



WASfflNG DAT. 



WASHINO DAT. 

This 18 the dreaded erent of everj household, laige» and small ; 
it is proverbially associated with wretchedness and discomfort, and 
oiany have been the plans, methods, and receipts, which have been 
imposed upon housekeepers, through their desire to relieve them- 
selves of this constantly recurring source of trouble and annoy- 
ance. 

Such efforts, are mostly vain, and useless however, sometimes 
worse^— positively injurious. Clean clothes are a luxury, that must 
be paid for in some shape or other — and no substances have been 
discovered, and few machines invented, to rival the stout arm, and 
strong hand of the professional wash-woman. 

Never use soda to soflen water, it rots the clothes in proportion 
to its strength ; buy crude borax by the pound, and put in half an 
ounce for an ordinary washing; it whitens, and cleanses, and 
softens, wonderfully, and injures nothing. The women of Holland, 
whose washing is proverbial, use borax. 

Use a really good brand of soap well dried — not the soft, gela^* 
tinous, yellow bars, which melt away jn a moment, and really 
stain rather than cleanse the clothes, and always destroy the hands. 

Have the clothes soaked over night in warm water, rubbing all 
creased and soiled places with soap, and they will require only 
one washing, and that not a laborious one, before boiling. Bo3 
quick, rinse thoroughly, wring through a first-rate clothes wringer, 
(the barbarism of wringing by hand, is now happily at an end) 
and bring them in, and fold them as soon as they are dry. Fine 
shirts, rufiies, and linen, and cambric under clothing, are much 
injured by being exposed an unnecessary length of time to frost, 
wind, or dust. 

14 



S]14 wAsnnro dat. 

TABUB-CLOTHB, KAFKINB, R€. 

Tlieae articles, and any others that are likely to be disfigured 
with frnit, or coffee stains, should be kept back from the genera 
•oakiDg, in order to undergo special t-reatcnent. Pat these in t 
■mall tub by themselTCs — and pour a kettle of boiling water upoD 
them — ^not hot, but boiling, hot water sets stains, boiling watei 
takes them out dean. When the water has cooled a little, wash 
them thoroughly, and boil them, the stains will have probably all 
disappeared, but if they should prove very obstinate, lay them oo 
the grass wet, when the sun is hot, and they will vanish. 

WUITK FLANNSL8. 

White flannel garments, such as petticoats, underskirts and I 

drawers, baby flannels and the like, require also to be put in boil- 
ing water. The very best way to wash white flannels is by ma- 
chine. Put in the flannels, pour in boiling suds, mild, let their, 
stand a few minutes, then grind them out. Pour the suds away, 
put the flannels in again, and poar over thcin a kettle of dear 
boiling water with a pinch of crude borax in it, and grind them 
out of that. This finishes the process, and makes them beautifol- 
ly soft and dean, with little labor, and no danger of shrinkage. 

ZEFHTR GOODS AND COLORED FLAKNEDS. 

Colored flannel dresses, sacks, Garibaldis and other artides of 
knitted wool, such as baby socks, knitted sacks and the like, should 
all be washed in cold water, in which a little crude borax has been dis- 
solved, and with fine white .soap, white Castile is best, but don^t take 
colored Castile, as that may stain. The process will be found veiy 
easy, and perfectly satisfactory ; the dirt will come out in the cold 
water without any trouble ; there will be no shrinking, and the col* 
CMT will remain bright in the colored woolens, or fancy borderingi, 

TO WASH LACB8 AND NEEDLEWORK. 

I^e handkerchiefs, collars,^ undersleeves, chemisettes and edg* 
tngs should never be put into the large '* wash,^^ they should be kepi 
till a sufficient number has accumulated, and then on a rainy day, 
when visitors are not expected, collect them, mend carefully ever) 



WASHING DAT. 816 

little liole, soap tbem and put tbem in a clean, bright tin pail that 
will cover down close, and fill up with cold water with a pinch of 
borax in it. Let them come to a slow boil, then squeeze (hem 
out ; if they are very yellow, and very dirty, the operation may 
aave to be repeated. Rinse and dry ; in the meantime pour a little 
boiling water over a few lumps of loaf sugar, and if you wish a 
yellow tinge add a table-spoonful of clear liquid coffee, instead of 
ftarch ; lay the articles straight out in clean, dry towels, and by 
the time the last one is folded up, the first will be ready to iron, 
t^oint laoe can be washed in this way to look like new. 

BLONDE LACE, TO WASH. 

Yexy old point, or blonde lace, can be washed successfully in the 
following way. Wind the lace smoothly round a bottle, and a strip 
of old linen outside of it, so as to cover it. Let it lay in the bot- 
tom of a wash tub while the first and best clothes are being wash- 
ed, and transfer it to the top of the clothes while they are boiling. 
Thence take it and lay it in boiling water, which has been slightly 
colored with liquid coffee, and sweetened with loaf sugar. Presf 
out the moisture, and dry near a fire, or in the sun, and iron care- 
fully while still damp. 

MUSLIN, LAWN, OB PRINT DRESSES. 

An excellent, and sure way to wash lawn, print, or muslin dress- 
es, is to put one or two quarts of bran in a bag, and boil it in two 
or four gallons of water. When the strength is extracted, take 
out the bag, and wash the dresses in the bran water. It will act 
both as soap and starch, cleansing and stiffening them perfectly, 
without any danger to their color. Once rinsing is sufiicient, in 
water into which some of the bran water has been poured. 

COLORED STARCH. 

Colored starch is the latest and greatest novelty in the laundry 
line. It is made in pink, buff, the new mauve, and a delicate 
green, and blue will soon be produced. Any article starched with 
the new preparation is completely colored— dyed we should have 
said, but as it washes out, and the garment that was pink to-day 
may be green to-morrow, and buff afterwards, we can hardly ny 



816 WASHING DAT. 

'* dyed.^ It is intended especially for those bright but ttetLcberoai^ 
\y colored muslins, that are costly, wash out, and perplex their 
owners. If the pattern has been mauve, they only need the manTS 
starch ; if green, green starch ; and they can be rendered one 
iTen and pretty shade, thus becoming not only wearable agiin, 
but stylish. 

HOW TO STARCH SHIRTS, AND OTHER THINGS. 

Pal into a thin muslin bag, a quarter of a pound of "best" 
•tarch. Soak it for ten or fifteen minutes in three pints of pure, 
soJt water, into which drop a minute quantity of fine French *' blue.*^ 
Squeeze all the starch out of the bag, and dip the shirts, and those 
articles that require to be very stiff first. Afterwards it can be 
thinned for children's aprons, and such things as only require to go 
through water starch. This quantity will stiffen three or four 
dozen miscellaneous articles, which will be ready for ironing im- 
mediately. One trial will convince the most sceptical that this 
method is infiritely better, less laborious, and more economical than 
boiled tftarch. 

SAVING SOAP. 

Pour on half a pound of washing soda two quarts of boiling 
water, take half a pound of soap, cut up fine in a saucepan, and 
pour over it .two quarts of cold water; let it boil, and when per- 
fectly dissolved, add it to the other. Mix it well upon the fire, 
set it away to get cold, and it will look like jelly. Soak yoar 
clothes over night, rub them out of the water, put half a pint of 
your saving soap into your boiler, with cold water, and put your 
clothes into the cold water, let all come to a boil together, then 
take out the linen, and rinse thoroughly. This will keep clotbet a 
iplendid color, with half the usu^d labor. 



THE DAIRY. 



THE OOWS. 

Attend very particularly to the foo4 and drink of tiie oowi ; 
and see that they have clean pasture of timothy, or herds grass, 
and have pure, clean, water to drink. If cows are suffered to run 
where they can find such things as leaves, garlic, and weeds, they 
will often eat them, and drink stagnant water ; all of which tend 
to give a bad flavor to butter. 

THE MILK ROOM. 

The milk room is much cooler when situated on the north side 
of the house, where it is not exposed to the hot sun through the 
whole day ; or the shade of large tall trees is very beneficial. The 
object should be to have it as cool as possiblt, without being damp^ 
The room and utensils should be kept as clean and sweet, as hot 
and cold water and pure air, can make them. Close watchfulness 
of the milk is required; if it stands too long, it will make bad 
flavored butter, less of it, and will require more labor to churn 
and work it. Strain your milk into shallow pans ; it should not 
stand over thirty-six hours ; if your pans have no legs, that raise 
them a little firom the shelves, place small blocks of marble or 
wood, under them, so that the air can circulate under them. When 
wasliing dairy pans, and pails, always put cold water in them first 
ftnd wash thoroughly ; add a little warm water if you prefer it. 

BiAKINQ BUTTER 

Cream should not be kept more than two days in summer^ and 
if there is sufilcient cream to chum daily, it is better to do so. 
Skim the milk before it becomes ver}- sour ; pass a silver ^psoa 



818 THB DAIBT. 

handle around the edge of the pan, lift the cream with a perforited 
tkimmer, and put it immediately into the cream crock ; stir the 
cream two or three times each day briskly until it is ready to chiun, 
when usually it will come quickly. Churning should be done, diu^ 
ing warm weather, early in the morning in a cool place ; the dash- 
nr ought to be moved slowly and regularly at first, and then uon 
briik until the butter separates from the milk ; when it is gathT^ 
•d, wet the bowl and ladle, first with a little warm water, and 
then put plenty of cold or ice water to them ; pour out the water 
and take up the butter ; drain off as much of the butter-milk, as 
possible, pressing the butter a moment gently with the ladle. 

Scatter a handful of salt in the bowl before putting in the butter; 
then throw a little salt upon the butter, and mix it in ; drain off 
aU the water, and make indentations in the butter with the ladle, 
fill them with nice salt, and set the bowl in a cool place. At eve- 
ning, when the butter is hard, work it gently, without hreaHig 
the grain, and squeeze out all the milk that can be removed with- 
out too much pressure. Salt to the taste, and let it stand ootil 
morning, then finish it, making it into rolls, or packing it. When 
it is finished and becomes hard or set, every working over or 
changing from one vessel to another injures it, rendering it soft, 
and pasty, and breaking the grain. It will never again be as firm 
or nice in flavor, and will not keep sweet as long. If the batter 
is fojr packing, put it in the firkin as soon as possible, firom the air. 
Pack close until nearly full, for room should be left to pour ob 
enough nice brine to cover the butter. This is made by pouring 
boiling water upon salt, and when it is cold, straining it through a 
cloth. Pour enough of this brine upon the butter to cover it, sxf 
a quarter of an inch, or half an inch in thickness ; this kept upon 
butter entirely excludes the air, and keeps it sweet and good ai 
when first packed. If it is to be sent away, pour off the brine, 
iatarate a cloth in it, lay it on the top, and oover it with a thidr 
layer of salt. 



JEWISH RECEIPTS. 



^ese are all original and reliable, — ^the contribution of a fa 
perior Jewish hoasekeeper in New York. 

WHITB STEWED FISH. 

Ptit on as much water to boil as is required to cover six or eigh 
steaks of striped bass, boil in it one onion, sliced thin, a little ground 
ginger, salt, black pepper and a small quantity of whole red pepper. 
^Yhen these are done put in your slices of fish ; when boiled take 
them up carefully, drain them and lay in a dish. Beat up six eggs, to 
which add a little nutmeg, a little cayenne pepper, and some parsley 
chopped fine. In a separate bowl strain the juice of three or four 
lemons, to this add one half pint of the liquor in which the fish has 
been boiled, which must be strained ; when this is done, take the 
liquor which is mixed with the lemons and throw it mUS the eggs, 
beating them all the time. Take a china or iron saucepan, into it 
put the sauce, set it on a gentle fire, stirring it all the time until it 
tliicKcns a little, it must on no account be boiled as it will curdle ; 
!lien throw the sauce over the fish and put it to cool. Chicken 
can be served in the same way. 

BBOWN FBIGASSBB CHICKEN. 

Take a chicken, cut it up in pieces and fry them brown, either in 
the best sweet oil or rendered fat. Then take six onions, slioa 
them and cover them in a frying-pan with enough oil or fat to &y 
them ; when soft take the cover off, so as to let them brown, then 
icald and peal two tomatoes, cut them up and put them in the pan 
with the onions to simmer a little. Put the fried chicken into a 
saucepan with the onions etc., add a little thyme, pepper, salt and 



820 JEWISH BEOSIPTS. 

a few grama of allspice, and enough hot water to make a rich gra- 
vy ; coyer it up and let it cook for half an hour or an hour, accordmg 
to the tenderness of the chicken ; a very small piece of garlic and 
naoe can be added when cooking, if liked. 

▲ GOOD PUBDmO. 

Take one half pound of bread crumbs, six ounces of white ni- 
gar, pour over it one half pint of boiling milk, let it stand tS 
nearly cold, then work into it one fourth pound of fresh butter on- 
, til it becomes very white. Then add four eggs, one at a time, 
stirring ; it must be well beaten between each ; then add the rind 
grated, and the juice of a lemon ; take a mould, butter and paper 
it well, then ornament it with candied peel and raisins, according 
to fancy. Pour into it the ingredients, put a paper oyer the top, 
also tie in a doth, and let it steam gently for two hours. Ser?e 
it with arrow-root, or custard sauce. 

PUBIM FRITTERS 

Take a loaf of baker^s bread, cut off the crust and cdt in slices 
of one half inch thick ; put them in a dish and soak them in cold 
milk, but not so long as to allow them to mash ; when soaked, 
take them out and drain them. Beat eight eggs yery thick, and 
pour a little of the egg over each slice of bread, so as to penetrate 
them ; then take each slice of bread and dip it into the eggs that 
are beaten, and fry a light brown color, in rendered butter, &om 
which the salt has been extracted; when this is done sprinkle 
oyer the fritters a little powdered cinnamon, and senre with a 
syrup made of white sugar. 

CODFISH FRITTEBS. 

Take two pounds of salt codfish, put to soak in water ; when 
f^sh enough, boil and drain ; pick out the bones, and pound the 
fish fine in a mortar ; to this add chopped parsley, pepper, a little 
nutmeg, and a table-spoon of butter. Take three or four onions, 
chop fine and fry taem in butter \ scald and peel two tomatoes, 
and let them simmer with the onions; mix this with the fish 
thoroughly, add six eggs well beaten, and &j in small fritters a 
light brown color 



JBWISH BECBIPTS. 821 



LEMON PUDDINOa. 

To be added to four eggs, well-beaten, one fourth pound of loaf 
tugar and two ounces of butter which have been previously well 
mixed together, then the peel of two lemons and the juice of one, 
and bake either in cups or pie dish. 

A RICHER LEMON FTTDDINa. — 1. 

Six yolks and two whites of eggs to be well-beaten, and then 
added to three ounces of butter and one fourth of sugar, the juice 
of one lemon and the rind of two, which must be taken by rubbing 
a lump or two of loaf sugar upon it. 

LEMON PXTDDINa. — 2, 

One fourth pound of fine boiled bread crumbs added to the 
above, and a little more sugar to taste, and boil in a form. 

APPLE FUDDINO. 

Grate one half pound of apples, mix with four eggs well-beaten, 
and six ounces of sugar, and bake in a form and turn out. 

ALBERT SANDWICHES. 

Take one half pound of butter, melt it to an oil befo:« the fire, 
add one half pound light weight of flour, and one half of pounded 
loaf sugar ; mix well together, add six eggs wdl hecUeti^ and then 
beat all well together, either flavor with a few pounded almonds or 
the rind of lemon rubbed on sugar ; put this mixture on well but- 
tered tins about a third of an inch thick, and bake in a quick oven ; 
it must be taken out when it is a very pale color, and loosened 
whilst it is hot, fi*om the tin, the edges always get too dark, but they 
are cut off. When nearly baked, sprinkle pink sugar over half the 
quantity. When cold cut in diamonds and put sweatmeats be- 
tween, like sandwiches; arrange them nicely in the dish and 
'put whipped cream, flavored with vanilla, and the least bit of si 
gar, in the middle. The vanilla is best grated. Perhaps you will 
find it easier to put the mixture on buttered papers laid in tins, 

BCERINOUES. 

Take the whites of eighf^^ eggs quite fresh and juit broken, beal 



322 JEWISH BBCEIPT8. 

them with a whitk till as firm as possible. Haye ready pfrepared 
eight table spoons of ground not powdered sugar, which mix with 
the egg as quickly as possible, so as not to give time to melt. ILiTe 
ready a piece of board and sixteen pieces of white paper ; put a 
tablespoon of the mixture on each paper in the shape of an egg : 
nake it thick but not too spread -out, smooth them off nicely, and 
sprinkle with sugar, blow off what 9ugar foMs on the paper, and 
then put board and all into the oven ; wcUcJi them weU and take them 
>vt as soon as firm. Have ready another piece of board with olcao 
papers, roll off the meringues on to them, making them stand on 
theii tops ; take out a little of the inside with a tea-spoon, and put 
them back in the oven or the hoard for the 'nside to get firm, fill 
with whipped cream flavored with Tani**a and some sugar, and 
join the two halves together to for~\ an egg. 

The papers must neither be buttered or have sugar on tbem, and 
they must not be baked without boards. 

BREAD AND BI7TTER FUDDINO. 

When you make a bread and butter pudding, put only the yolks 
inside, and whip the whites ; sweeten and flavor, and when the 
pudding is baked, put this on the top, and put it in the oven again 
for a few minutes, to crisp, and yon will find it a great impror- 
ment. 

aALLT LUNK 

Three table-spoons butter, two table-spoonsfbl sngar, two caps 
milk, scant four cups flour, five eggs, one tea-spoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream of tartar. Bake twenty-five minutes. Eat hot, 
spread with butter. 

ANOTHER lO&THOD IS A8 FOLLOWS. 

One pint of flour, piece of butter half as large as an egg, one 
egg, two table-spoonsful sugar, one tea-cup milk, one tea-spoonfiil 
cieam of tartar, one half tea-spoonfiil soda, one tea-spoon saH. 
Bake twenty minutes. 

CUP CAKE. 

One enp of butter, two sugar, three ^ps flom , five eggs. 



JEWISH BECB1PT8. 32^ 

teftspoon soda, dissolved in tea-cup of milk. Two tea-spoonsful 
cream tartar, flavor to fancy. 

HICKORT NUT CAKB. 

Three cnps flour, two cups sugar, two eggs, one half cup but- 
ter, one pint hickory nuts, one half cup milk, one half tea-spooD 
•oda. 

MABMALADB. 

Twenty-four yolks of eggs, one half pound white sugar, clarify, 
boil, and strain ; add one table-spoonful beaten sweet almonds to 
the syrup, while boiling. When the syrup cools, pour the eggft, 
which must be well beaten, with a spoon gently. Keep stirring 
on a gentle fire, till it becomes thick. 

OBGENT. 

Two pounds sugar ; clarify and make thick, three ounces sweet 
almonds, one ounce bitter almonds, weir beaten fine, one quart 
water to the almonds, stir up well, and then squeeze ; add theip 
to the syrup, and boil ; when cold add orange flower and rose 
water according to taste. 

COCOA NUT FUDDINO. 

One pound of ground cocoa nut, one pound of crushed sogaf 
made into a syrup, one half pint water, six eggs. 

Throw the cocoa nut in the syrup, when boiling, and let it cook 
say ten minutes, stirring it occasionally to keep firom burning ; when 
perfectly cold throw in your eggs, and beat them well in, then 
bake for fifl«en to twenty minutes. 

CUP CAKB. 

One cap butter, two cups sugar, five cups flour, me nutmeg, foor 
«ggy 4 little saleratuB 

SWEET CBAGKBBS. 

One pint flour, three fourths cup sugar, two spoonsfbl of cinna- 
mon, one fourth pound butter, a little salt. 

Boll ver}' thin ; bake quick ; mix all up in a dougb with sw0«l 
milk. 



824 JEWISH BBCBIPT8. 



ALMOND FUDDINQ. 

Pound together half a pound of sweet almonds and six or serai 
bitter ahnonds, mix with half a pound of sifted BugAr, a little fine 
•range flower water, and the yolks of ten and the whites of seysn 
well-whisked eggs. Mix thoroughly, and bake in a quick oren half 
an hoir, or until it is sufficendy firm to turn out of the dish ; sift 
•ugar thickly over it or pour round it a rich syrap flavored widi 
orenge flower water ; serve hot or cold. 

LEMON DUMPLINOS. 

Three fourths pounds of flour, one half pound moist sugar » the 
juice of two lemons, the grated rind of one, one half pound of 
chopped suet, all well mixed together with very little water ; maks 
with it six dumplings. To boil without ceasing, for one hour, and 
be eaten as soon as served with melted butter, well sweetened, 
and the rind of one lemon in it, or any other sweet sauce will do. 

UOHT FUDDma. 

Beat ^TB yolks with sugar to suit, add two tea-spoons veiy fnli 
of flour, the juice and grated rind of one lemon ; lastly add the 
five whites beaten well to frost, and bake immediately ; it takes 
about half an hour to cook; grease the dish, serve a saooe 
with it if liked. 

TOMATOB8 FOB WINTBB USB. 

See that your tomatoes are quite fresh, else they will break 
the bottles when they ferment. Pour scalding water over them, 
and take off the skins. It is usual to remove all the green parts, 
though some housekeepers think it is not necessary. Put them 
over the fire in a tin, or china lined saucepan, and let them boil 
half an hour. Have your cans ready, fill them fiiU, and screw 
them tight ; they require no seasoning till yon are ready to use 
them. Then add pepper, salt, thyme, sweet marjoram and onion. 
Too much seasoning spoils the taste of the tomato, but a little of 
these herbs is an addition ; also add grated bread crumbs and but- 
ter ; they are much improved by putting them in a deep dish ; 
peason as above, and spread thin slices of bread and butter, of 



JSWlSH BBOBIPTS. 825 

grtte the oread, and add the butter ; put ihem in the oyen and bake 
till brown. 

FTCKLED CUCUMBERS. 

Put them in a wooden or stone vessel, pour over strong salt and 
water boiling hot, put a weight on to keep them under the pickle 
After three days pour it off, boil and turn it over them again ; 
stand three days again ; then take them out and let them lie one 
night in plain cold water ; next day put them over the fire, but do 
not let them boil, allowing one table-spoonful of alum to a gallon 
of vinegar ; mace, cinnamon, pepper corns, white and black, mus- 
tard seed and grated horseradish. One table-spoonful of each to 
every gallon of vinegar, and one tea-spoonful of tumeric. Fold 
a double piece of linen and a soft thick brown paper, and tie the 
jars tight ; throw in the vinegar, keep in a dry place. A bladder 
and linen doth are nice to be over the pots. 



FAVOMTE DISHES OF DISTINGUISHED 

PEESONS. 



PRnmmT Oilot is very fond of scrambled eggs and fried 
ham ; but this must be cut thin and crisply frizzled. 

Louis Napoleon has an inordinate liking for chocolate. He baa 
a cup of chocolate served him while in his bath-tub every morning; 
and during the war in Italy, before, during, and after the battle 
of Solferino — a period covering three days — ^he ate nothing but 
oommon cake diocolate. He had a package of it in his hoi- 
•ten. 

Victoria relishes boiled mutton caper sauce. Has a heartj 
meal of it every day at two, when she sits down with her chil- 
dren. Never eats any thing at state banquets, because she dinei 
so heartily off mutton, at two, that she has no appetite left. Also 
very fond of a cup of tea. During one of her visits to the camp 
at Aldea*8hott, she went and peeped in at the tent of a nameless 
young officer, and asked him if he had any tea. He handed her 
his caddy, and she went in and drew it herself 

Princess of Prussia — ^Victoria's eldest daughter—is, it is re- 
ported, so extremely fond of ice-cream that she has injured her 
health by over-indulgence in her favorite dish. 

Eugenie, French empress, of all things relishes an omelet with 
onions. This is due to her Spanish taste, which often shows 
itself very strongly in sometimes not very admirable ways. 

Patti tborshipB boiled macaroni, with tomato sauce. Roson^ 
the composer, first gave her the taste for this ; being himself a 
superb cook, he often prepared it for her bird-like palate. 

Louis Xn., when he invaded Italy, made many cooks prison 
ers ; many of their good dishes we still enjoy. Emperors may 
perish — theyVicoM^ will survive. 

From the days of Leo X., we have the fricandeaUy that delii 
fious dish of veal. Larded, spiced, and surrounded by vegetable^ 



FATOBITB DIBBBB OF DIST1NGUI8HBD PEBSOXrS. 827 

carroty onions, and parsley, it was slowly steamed and seryed 
with Macedonian sauce. 

To this period of luxury we are indebted also for the introduce 
tion of forks. The Romans knew them not Mankind required 
five thousand five hundred and some years to indent the frican 
deau and the use of forks. 

Louis XIY. became yery fastidious about his table, and Ma* 
damede Maintenon originated her celebrated cutlets, {Cdtelettes 4 
la Mainterum,) She steamed them first for an hour, with mush- 
rooms, shallots, parsley, and butter, then added pepper and salt, 
and small pieces of bacon, cut in the form of a heart ; wrapped 
them in oiled letter-paper, and broiled them on a very slow fire, 
80 that the paper absorbed all the fat ; lastly was added a large 
fpoonfiil of eelontee sauce, composed of the yolks of three eggs 
beaten to a cream, lemon-juice, and a minute portion of Spanish 
pepper. What a tender proof of loving solicitude ! From that 
time also dates the invention of Uquefwrs. Distillation and the 
alchemist's art were brought to Europe by the Crusaders. Brandy 
was not generally used before Louis XIV.'s time. 

Under Louis XY., Madame de Pompadour invented the ** ta 
hies vokmteSy^^ (flying tables,) which descended and ascended 
from the kitchen, somewhat similar to the dumb-waiters of mod 
em invention. 

HBNBT WARD BBBCHER*8 FAYOBITB. — TURTLE BBAV SOUP. 

Soak, one and a half pints of turtle beans, in cold water, oviv 
night In the morning drain off the water, wash the beans in 
fresh water, and put into the soup digester, with four quarts of 
good beef stock, from which all the fat has been removt^d. Set it 
where it will boil steadily but slowly, till dinner, or five hours, 
at the least-7-six is better. Two hours before dinner put in half 
a can of tomatoes, or eight fresh ones, and a large coffee-cup of 
tomato catsup. One onion, a carrot, and a few of the outside 
stalks of celery, cut into the soup with the tomatoes, improves it 
for most people. Strain through a fine colander, or coarse sieve, 
rubbing through enough of the beans to thicken the soup, and 
•^nd to table hot 



128 VATOBITB DI8HBB OF DISUKGUISHSD PBBfiOHR. 

In a note aooompanying this receipt, Mrs. Beecber says : 

*' After straining, I sometimes return the soup to the ' diges 
ter/ bring to a boil, and breaK in four or fiye ^gs, and as BO<m 
•8 the whites haye ' set * — a v&ry littl&--dish the soup and bring 
to the table with the slightly cooked eggs floating on the top. 
There should be eggs enough to take one out for every person aft 
the Uble.** 

HBNST WIBD BSBOHXB's BISOUIXS. 

Peel and boil two large potatoes in just water enough to cover. 
When done, mash smoothly, and adding a half a pint of the wa- 
ter in which they were boiled while hot, rub it through a '* colan- 
der" or coarse sieve ; add half a pint sweet milk, half a tea-spoon- 
ful salt, one table-spoonful sugar, and flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter. When cool, add half a penny's worth of baker's or half a 
cup home-made yeast, which is better. Let it rise thoroughly ; 
then rub a tea-cup of butter into sufficient flour to mould (K 
warm weather, it is well to dissolve a half tea-spoonful of soda, 
and stir into the batter.) - Beat the white of one egg stiff, and 
stir in with the butter and flour, being carefiil to use as little 
flour as possible, and have it stiff enough for moulding; then 
knead half an hour. If light too early for tea, put it into the 
cellar or refirigerator, until wiihin an hour of tea-time — ^when it 
should be kneaded fifteen minutes, cut into small biscuits, and 
set to rise till as light as possible without souring; bake in a 
quick oven. When done, cover over closely with a dean bread- 
cloth, and let them remain in the pan a few minutes to soften ; 
then send to the table. They should be light as a puf^ and verj 
tender. 

ixid oabt's plum-pudding. 

(Original Beeeipt) 

To eight ounces of fine bread-crumbs add six of beef-saet| 
fresh, and chopped small ; six of raisins, weighed after they are 
stoned ; six of carefiilly cleaned currants, four ounces of chopped 
apples, four of sugar, two of candied lemon and orange-pee2 



VATOBirB DISHES OF DISTINGT7I8HBD PBBSOKSi. 829 

mixed, two of candied citron, a whole nutmeg grated, four ^gs, 
a pinch of salt, and a small wine-glass of brandy. Soak the 
bread-crumbs in a small pint of milk half an hour; add tho 
other ingredients, mix well, boil three hours in a mould, and 
Mrre with rich wine sauce. 

HBBODOTUS' PUDDIHO. 

(A Genuine Cflameal Beeeipt) 

*' Prepare and mix in the usual manner one pound of fine 
raisins stoned, one pound of minced beef-suet, half a pound of 
bread-crumbs, four figs chopped small, two table-spoonfuls of 
moist sugar, (haney^ in the original,) two wine-glassfuls of sherry, 
and the rind of half a large lemon, (grated.) Boil the pudding for 
fourteen hov/ny 

Obe. — ^This receipt is really to be found in Herodotus. The 
only variations made in it are the substitution of sugar for honey, 
and sherry for the wine of ancient Greece. Half the quantity of 
suet would, we think, be an inprovement, and half the time fbr 
boiling^ 

PH<IBI cart's BOHiBD APPUhDUMPLDrCW. 

Peel and core large greening apples, of a uniform nze, and fill 
the cayity with clear lemon mahnalade. Inclose each one in a 
nice paste, rolled rather thin, and draw small hnUted cloths 
over them, which giyes them a yery pretty effect Tie them close, 
and boil three quarters of an hour, or an hour, if the crust is 
made with suet Serye with hard sauce, flayored with nutmeg. 

PHoon oabt's ooMPon or appuh. 

Ifake a symp of one pound of loaf-sugar and a pint of water 
into which squeeze the juice of two lemons. When it is clear, 
and boiling, drop into it a dozen or more fine, sound, tart apples, 
peeled and cored, and let them boil gently until they are per^ 
fectly tender. When done, take them up with a skimmer, throw 
nto the syrup a few thin str'ps of lemon- rind, let them boil a few 



830 FATOBITB DIBHBB OF DISTIKGUX8HJa> PXBSOnEk 

minatefl, «nd then pour them, with the sTmp, over the applee 
Set away to oooL 

PHOBU C4RT*S SHOW-BALLS. 

Peel, aod take out the cores of six large baking-apples, equa. 
size. Fill the holes with quince marmalade, and roil the apples in 
pounded loaf-sugar. Then ooTer them with a smooth, good paste^ 
of equal thickness, and bake them a light brown in a moderate 
oven. Haye an icing prepared, flavored with lemon, with whkt 
ooYer them thickly, and set them near enough to the fire to hap 
den, but not to become brown. 

AHITA DIOKIMSOH'B TEFDIBLOIN OF BSEF OABNISHBD WITH ITOBH- 

BOOXS. 

An intimate friend of Miss Anna Dickinson's says of her . 
^ Anna detests every thing fried — ^fried potatoes, fried eggs, or 
fried mush, while fried beefsteak, such as housekeepers in the 
West are often heathen enough to serve strangers, has power to 
drive her to pull her hair out of curL" 
Her fiivorite dish is prepared in the following way : 
Take one pound of tenderloin of bee( cut tfaidc, and brofl 
it over a dear fire. Turn it quickly half a dozen times, and 
when just done, remove it carefully from the gridiron, in order 
to preserve the gravy, and lay it in a hot dish, upon which a 
piece of butter is melting, and which has been sprinkled with 
pepper and salt In the mean time cook a dozen button mush- 
rooms, by putting them in a wire basket, and setting them on 
the range. Shake into their cups a little pepper and salt, and 
while cooking, they will fill with gravy. Five minutes or less 
will do them sufficiently ; then lift them carefully, so as not to 
spill the gravy, and arrange them round the tenderloin, which 
should have been just taken from- the fire. 

SVaAH B. AMTHOHT's APKJi TAPIOOA FUDDINQ. 

Susan B. Anthony is an excellent cook and housekeeper, and 
U was a proverb at home that, when Susan did the housekoepii^ 



VATOBITK DISHBS OV DlSTlNGmSHBD PSBSONS. 33) 

^e meals were always punctual and well senred. She believe^i 
in a platn, simple diet, and the following is her fayorite pudding : 
Peel and core dght apples, fill them with sugar in which a 
little nutmeg has been grated. Take a cupful of tapioca, which 
has all night been soaking in water, add to it a little milk or 
water if needed, and pour it rouud the apples, which have been 
laid in a buttered dish. Bake slowly one hour, and serve with 
cream and powdered sugar. It is good hot or cold, the tapioca 
forming a jelly round the apples. 

OLnrB Logan's teal cutlbts in papillottbs, (cubl-papebs.) 

Trim the cutlets neatly, season tliem with pepper and salt, and 
fry them in clarified butter. While they are cooking, chop some 
mushrooms, parsley, and three shallots, add to them the piece of 
half a lemon, a table-spoonful of meat jelly, two ot white sauce, 
and a little nutmeg. Simmer the mixture over the fire, add two 
yolks of eggs, toss all together till thoroughly mi^ed, then let it 
become cooL Then take as many sheets of large-sized note- 
paper as there are cutlets, cut each somewhat in the form of a 
heart, and then let them be oiled. Next, place a cutlet with 
an equal proportion of the sauce in one of these papers, and 
with the fore-finger and thumb of the right hand, twist the edges 
of the paper tightly under into very close folds ; and repeat this 
with the remainder. A quarter of an hour before sending to 
table, put the cutlets in the oven in a Sauta-pan, to get warm 
through ; then, with a heated iron skewer, mark the paperp so 
as to make it appear that they have been broiled ; dish them np 
cm ft napkin with fried parsley in the centre. 



80B0SIS BEOEIPTS 



Tm following twenty receipts are the tried methods of one of 
iie beet oooks and housekeepers in the country, and the Chair 
woman also of the Executiye Oommittee of Sorom. 



TEKT HIGI BISCUIT. 

One quart of milk, raised ; when light, add one cup of batter, 
one egg, one table-spoonful white sugar, half a tea-spoonful oi 
loda ; raise again ; roll thin, and bake quickly. 

IBDIAH MUTran. 

One table-spoonful of yeast, one pint of water, flour enou^ to 
make a thick batter ; let them rise through the night In the 
morning add one pint of Indian meal, a coffee-cup and a half <3i 
milk, a tea-spoonful of soda, some salt, and two eggs. Beat the 
mixture well before putting it into the rings to bake. 

COBH-CAKl 

Take two cups corn-meal, one cup of wheat flour, one iea- 
spoonfbl salt, two tea-spoonfiils cream of tartar, one tea-spoonfol 
soda, three eggs, three table-8x>oonfuls sugar, one and a half pints 
of milk, and one table-spoonfiil of butter. Rub meal, flour, salt, 
soda and cream of tartar through a deve, which.will mix them 
thoroughly. Then beat the eggs and sugar together, adding to 
them the butter melted. Next add the milk, and last of all stir 
in the preyiously mixed meal, flour, salt, soda, and cream of tar* 
tar. Bake immediately and rapidly to secure the escaping gaSi 
Twenty minutes will finish it in a biisk oyen. 



J 



BOBOSIS SBCBOPnU 338 

VBOP BUGUIT. 

Oup of mflk^ one egg, cap of floor, ono spoonftd of melted 
better, and % little salt Bake in a hot oren, and eat as soon as 
possilKe. 

BAKiD Murrars. 

One cap and a half of sour milk, ha)f a cap of butter, two 
fggs, one tea-spoonfiil of soda, (jou can use sweet milk and 
cream of tartar.) Stir a stiff batter, and bake in muffin-rings. 
Thej are best made with one cup of cream and one cup of sour 

CBUIIPITB. 

Mix a gill of yeast with two quarts of water, just lukewarm, 
k> which add sufficient flour to make a thinnish batter, and let 
it stand six hours in a warm place, when stir it well with a 
wooden spoon, and let it remain four hours longer ; when bak^ 
in muflln-rings. 

Era DBOP CAKl. 

One pint of milk and three eggs, a table-spoonfbl of sugar and 
a salt-spoonfiil of salt Stir in rye flour till about the consis- 
tent of pancakes. Bake in buttered cups or saucers half an 
hoar. 

SALLT Lumr . 

Seven cups of sifted flour, half a tesrcup of butter, wanned in 
a pint of milk, one salt-spoonfiil of salt, and three well-beaten 
eggs, two table-spoonftds brewer's yeast If the yeast is home- 
made, use twice as much. Pour this into square pans to ris^ and 
then bake it before it sours. 

PUDDINGa 

HABLBOBOUOH PUDDOrCk 

Six tart apples, six ounces of sifted sugar, six ounces of but- 
ter, or a pint of thick cream, six ^gs, the grated peel of one 
lemon, and half the juice ; grate the apples after paring and 



IM 80S08I8 ABUBIFIB. 

ooring them ; atir together the batter and sugar as fur c^ikc 
ttien add the other ingredients, and bake in a rich paste. 

MABBOW PUDDDTG. 

Half a pound of ladies* finger cakes, and a quarter of a pound 
of beef marrow, chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of currants 
weD deaned, half an ounce of candied lemon-peel, a little nut- 
meg, a table-spoonfbl of powdered sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, 
and half a wine-glassihl of wine or brandy ; put these on a dish 
and fill up with custard, haring previously put a border of paste 
on the rim ; about half an hour will do it 

Half a pound of beef suet and half a tea-spoonful of salt, half 
a pound of pared and chopped apples, half a pound of sugar, 
half a pound of flour, half a pound of stoned raisins dredged 
with flour, flye eggs, a grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy ; chop 
and mix the suet and apples ; beat the suet into the yolks of the 
eggs ; mix all, putting in the whites ; cut to a stiff fiH>th just be- 
fon going into the oven ; bake two boors. 

nOUB FUDDINGk 

.Five eggs, five heaping table-spoonfiils of flour, one pint of 
milk, a little salt After the pudding has been in the oven ten 
minutes, take a spoon and sthr it around well ; to be eaten with 
any kind of sauce. 

OOTTAaB PUDDINCk 

One pmt bowl of flour, one tea-cup of milk, one egg, half tea- 
cup of sugar, one tea-spoon of soda dissolved in the mfSk^ 
two tea-spoons of cream of tartar, rubbed in the flour ; bake 
twenty mfaiutes or half an hour. Sauce. 

▲0BB8 VOBLB's PBBMIUX SPOKOB CAXM. 

One pound of sugar, half a pound of flour, ten 9gga, Beat 
ttie sugar and yolks together. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, 



80BOSIS BBOEIPTS. 83fi 

add them to the sugar, then stb* the flour hi gently, and the 
nice and rfaid of one lemon if large. 

JBLLT CAKX. 

Tt three well-beaten eggs add one cup of powdered siigar 
one of flour, stir well, and add one tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, 
half a tea-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in three tea-spoonfuls oi 
water ; bake in two pie-pans spread as evenly as possible ; have 
ready a towel, and as soon as done turn the cake on it, bottom 
side up ; then spread evenly with jelly ; roll up quickly and 
wrap in the towel 

LIHON CAKE, 

Four tumblers of flour, two and a half of powdered white 
sugar, three quarters of a tumbler of butter, one tumbler of milk, 
two lemons, three ^gs, and one heaping tea-spoonful of soda — 
saleratus will do, but is not so good as soda. This serves for 
two square loaves. Dissolve the soda in the milk; beat the 
yolks and strain them ; cut the whites to a stiff froth, work the 
butter and sugar till they look like cream, then add the yolks, 
then the milk, then the whites of ^gs, and then the flour; when 
thoroughly mixed, grate in the peel of one lemon, and squeeze in 
the juice of two, and this must not be done till it is ready to set 
hnmediately in the «ven. A tumbler and a half of currants im- 
proves this cake. Put them in with the lemon-juice. 

MOCK TUBTLB SOUP. 

Get a calTs head with the skin on, (the fresher the better, 
take out the brains, wash the head several times in cold water, 
let it soak in water for about an hour, then lay it in a stew-pan, 
and cover it with cold water, and half a gallon over. As it 
becomes warm, a great deal of scum will rise, which must be 
hnmediately removed. Let it boil gently for one hour, take it 
up, and when almost cold cut the head into pieces about an incb 
•nd a half by an inch and a quarter, and the tongue into mouth- 
fijls ; or rather, make a side-dish of the tongue and brains. 



88t> SOBOSIB RBGXIPTa. 

When the head to taken out, put m the stock-meat— «boat fli« 
pounds of knuckle of veal and as much bee^— «dd to the stock 
all the trimmings and bones of the head, skim it well, and then 
eorer it dose, and let it boL flye hours ; then strain it of^ and 
jat it stand till the next morning. Then take off the fikt^ set 
laige stew-pan on the fire with half a pound of good fresh but 
far, twelTe oonoea of onions sliced, and four ounces of green 
iage ; chop it a little; let these fry one hour, then mb in half a 
pound of flour, and by degrees add your broth till it is the 
thickness of cream ; season it with a quarter of an ounce of 
ground allspice, and half an ounce of black pepper ; salt to y oui 
taste, and add the rind of one lemon peeled very thin ; let it sim- 
mer Tery gently for one hour and a hal^ then strain it throuicfa 
a hur-sieye. Do not rub your soup to get it through the sieye, 
or it will make it grouty. If it does not run through easily, 
inock your wooden spoon against the side of your sieye ; put it 
in a clean stew-pan with the head, and season it by adding to 
each gallon of soup half a pint of wine — this should be Madeira, 
or, if you wish to darken the color of your soup, claret — and 
two table-spoonfbls of lemon-juice. Let it simmer gently till 
the meat to tender. Thto may take from half an hour to an 
hour ; take care it to not oyer-done. Sdr it frequently, to pre- 
yent the meat sticking to the bottom of the stew-pan ; and when 
the meat to quite tender, the soup is ready. 

While the soup to doing, prepare for each'tureen a dozen and 
a half of force-meat and egg-balls, and put them into the tureen. 
Brain-balto or cakes are a yery elegant addition, and are made 
by boiling the brains for ten minutes, then putting them in cold 
water, and cutting them in pieces about as big as a large nut- 
m^ ; take sayory or lemon, thyme dried and finely powdered, 
nutmeg grated, and pepper and salt, and pound them all toge 
thfir; beat up an egg and dip the brains in it; and then rol 
ttiem in thto mixture, and make as much of it as possible stick 
to them ; dip them in the egg again, and then in finely-grated 
and sifl»d bread-crumbs ; fiy them in hot fiit, and send them, up 
aa a side-dish. 



V > « *. 



soBOsn xBconpim 88) 



fOKn-lOAT BALLS POB TUBfLB, HOOK TUKOM, OB MADB DUHB8. 

Pound some yeal in a marble mortar ; rub it through a sieya 
with as much of the udder as jou have yeal, or about a third of 
the quantity of butter ; put some bread-crumbs into a stew-p«tn ; 
moisten them with milk ; add a little chopped parsley and es- 
chalot; rub them well together in a mortar till they form a 
smooth paste ; put it through a sieve, and, when cold, pound, 
and mix all together, with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard. 
Season it with salt, pepper, and curry-powder, or cayenne ; add 
to it the yolks of two raw eggs ; rub it well together, and make 
small baUs ; ,ten minutes before your soup is ready, pat them in. 



BOG-BAUA 

Bdl four eggs fbr ten minutes, and put them Into cold water; 
when they are quite cold, put the yolks into a mortar, with the 
yolK of a raw egg, a tea-spoonful of flour, same of chopped pars- 
ley, as much salt as will lie on a shilling, and a little blacic pep- 
per or cayenne ; rub them well together ; roll them into small 
balls, as they swell in boiling ; boil them a couple of minutes. 



BBIOHBT i0UirL& 

Pat in a stew-pan a pint of milk or water, a tea-spoonful of 
sugar, two ounces of butter, a few drops of essence of yanilla, oi 
any flayor you please ; giye it a boil ; throw in some flour ; keep 
stirring all the time until it becomes quite thick, and no longer 
tastes of the flour, and detaches itself from the pan. It will take 
about half an hour, as the better it is done the lighter it is 
withdraw it from the fire ; stir in six eggs, one at a time ; sift 
about two ounces of sugar until the paste is of the stiffness of 
puff-paste ; haye ready a pan of hot &t, into which drop by a 
spoon small pieces of paste-— it will increase their size— and 
wheo a nice color take them out ; drain and dish on a napkiis 
witlp lifted sugar oyer. 



3S8 80BOSI8 BBOXIPTB. 

■ATOKlTAm tAUOl lOB OHIOKBI OB L0B8TBB SALAD— 1 LA DB* 

KONIOO. 

Break the yolks of three eggs into a salad-bowl ; add a little 
■alt and white pepper, stir with a wooden spoon with the right 
hand, while with the left you add wry gradually about half a 
bottle of oil ; add about two spoonfuls of vinegar, (more or less 
according to its strength,) and add pepper and salt to your taste. 
This sauce must be very smoothly blended ; if not sufficiently aa, 
add a few drops of firesh water ; if then it will not blend smoothly, 
add by degreei the yolk of another egg. Roast or boil one or 
more chickens ; when suffidently done, remove the flesh fronr 
the wings and legs, cat in slices, and season with salt, pepper, 
and vinegar. 

When you make a chidcen mayomuds, place the fowl on a dish, 
eat in ten pieces, garnished with leek and hard eggs, olives, 
eapersi eta 

If it is a dddcen salad mayonnais, cat the diicken in dicc^ 
season with the salad in a bowl, cover with mayonnaise, and 
adorn with leeks, eggs, olives, capers, eta 

SPAiriBH SAUOB. 

Brown some floar in butter ; moisten with water or stodc ; 
add vegetables, such as carrots and tomatoes, and a well-roasted 
knuckle of moJ; cook two hours, then strain, first throu^ a 
odander, then throoi^ moslin. 

VBLVR 8AUCB. 

Make the saaoe as abovi^ bat do not let the flour and bottw 
brawn. The sauce most be kept white^ therefore do not least 
theveaL 

L OBSiail 1 LA OOBDBLAlsfi. 

(Dehumiec^i Beeelpt) 

Out onions and carrots into small dice, and ty li^tly in bee^ 
■uuTTOW and oiL Divide a lobster into six, each claw into two 
; add these to the vegetables with half a bottle of good 



80B06IS BBCEIPT8. 839 

irhite wine, a little garlic, and some parsley ; boil on a quick fire 
until reduced to a sauce ; season highly, and serre. (This may 
be thidcened with Spanish sauce or velonU.) 

▲UBERGINB FABCIS — ^BGO-PLAITF STUFISD. 

(Delmonieo^s Beeeipt) 

Cat an egg-^lant in halves, lengthwise, pass the blade of a 
knife through it, near the edge, and fry lightly a few momenta 
in oil ; take it out of the oil and remove the interior. 
Gut a shallot in small dice and fry in oil; add three or foui 
firesh mushrooms, some finely-chopped herbs, and the interior 
of the egg-plant ; mix it with your force-meat ; also some well- 
seasoned bread-crumbs, and a little meat jelly or Spanish sauce, 
fill the ^g-plant; roll it in bread-crumbs and moisten with 
oil ; leave it to brown fifteen minutes in the oven. 

SOUP 1 LA ooin>& 

{Ddmonico^i JSeeeipt) 

Soak a pint of red haricot beans over night in water; the next 
day moisten them with (bouillon) sto<^ or water ; add salt, ao 
onion, a few cloves, a carrot, and a bunch of parsley, and boil aQ 
together thoroughly; strain through a fine sieve; warm and 
thicken with a pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of butter; 
blend by continual stirring ; season with salt and a very little 
nutm^ 

POTATO BOULETTES — 1 LA BELMOnOO. 

Bdl a dozen dry, mealy potatoes, mash them smoothly, and mix, 
while still warm, two ounces of fresh butter, a small tea-spoonful 
of salt, half a nutmeg, and four eggs, the yolks and whites 
beaten separately. Mould the mixture into small oval forms, and 
drop them into clear boiling butter. Cook them until they are a 
pale brown, take them up quickly with a skimmer, and dish them 
•n a hot napkin. 



SiO BOBOaiS 

rOVAlO BIBM>1»— 1 LA 91EJRMRO01 

Wash and pad some large potatoes of good quality, cat Hmoi 
into rerj thick slioefli and tlien each slice round and round ioto 
Umg ribbons. Put them into a pan of cold water, and let them 
lie an hour. Then drain, and fiy them in a pan of boiling but- 
ler, antQ they are lightly browned, and quite crisp. Dry then 
with a napkin, pHe them in a hot dish, and sprinkle oyer them a 
ieaooning of salt and finely powdered parsley. 

The following fire receipts are frtHn Mrs. Burleigh, the Cor- 
responding Secretary of SaroBii* In reference to the '* tea," John 
Savage wrote: 

** Oelift makm radi wnil-laBplrliis tea 

That irtkOk one*! ta^en the draught odeellal vpi, 
He IMa eo hiffpj ttnl tt oft etrnok me 
She meat haTe poured her heart Into Uie eopu** 



Take best quality Oolong or Japanese tea, two heaping tea- 
spoonfuls for each person ; put in an earthen pot that has Just 
been rinsed with boiling water ; pour over it a small quantity of 
boiling water, and set it on a moderately hot store or range. 
Keep at the boiling-point, but not boiling, for ten minutes, add as 
mudi boiling water as is needed, and take to the table. Serri 
in thin Ohina cups, with best lump-sugar and cream. 



Take best Mocha coflbe, roast to a rich brown, taking care to 
hare no burnt kernels. Grind immediately— -not too fine ; break 
Into it an egg, wet the mixture with cold water, cover closely 
and let stand till momipg. Put into a dean coffee-pot, add as muck 
cold water as is needed, and set over a moderate fire. yThen 
it comes to a boil, take it off and let it settle. To good coffee 
white sugar and cream or condensed milk are indispensable. 



0OBOSIS SBOBIPTB. S41 



xurron. 

One quart y( milk, two eggs well beaten, a piece of buttec 
two thirds the nze of an egg, flour enough to make a stiff batter 
nd half a pint of yeast Let it stand till light^ and bake in 
Ings about half the usual width. * . 

8ALAD-DBB88INO. 

Four eggs boiled very hard. Let them get entirely oold ; re- 
more the whites and rub the yolks to a paste. Add one tea- 
spoonful powdered sugar, one tea-spoonful French mustard, one 
salt-spoonful of salt Rub all together, slowly adding best olive 
oil till the mixture is the consistency of thick cream. Add two 
table-spoonfuls of yinegar, and the whites of the eggs chopped 
not too fine. 



Boa a large tongue untQ it is perfectly tender, remove the 
ontmde and gristly parts, chop it fine, and add three bowls of 
peeled and minced Spitzenberg apples. Add to these one pound 
of well-cleaned Zante currants, one of raisins stoned and chop- 
ped, one of raisins whole, one pound of light brown sugar, one 
pound of suet (popped, a little salt, an ounce each of mace, nu^ 
megi cinnamon, and cloves, half a pound of chipped candied 
dtron, half a pound of orange and lemon candied peel mixed, a 
pint of golden or maple syrup, and one pint each of Madeira 
and best brandy. Mix thoroughly. Tie it down in ajar, put it 
in a oool places and it will keep for pies all winter. 

A. T. STEWABT's BIGB-PUDDIRO. 

Mr. Stewart is very simple in his tastes. He generally eats a 
eop i)i Indian meal gruel first thing in the morning; and prefers 
chicken fiicasee and plain rice-pudding to any other dinner, the 
year round. 

For his rice-pudding take half a cup of best rice, wash in 
severaL waters, and put it into a quart of new milk, with sugar 



t4f •OB0BI8 BBOSIPXt. 

lo tesU ; a pieoe of butter the size of an English walnut^ brokea 
ap into amail bits ; and a little nutmeg. Bake in a slack oren 
§ar two hours. 

▲• T. 8nWJLBT*8 CmCKBH niOASBl. 

Boil a pair of young chickens, skin them, and cut them up 
flne. Take the water in which they have been boiled, (th^n 
should be only a very little;) mix a dessert-spoonful of butter with 
the same of flonjr ; add three spoonfuls of veal gravy and three 
of cream ; mix all well together, add it to the broth, and let it 
come to a boiL Season to taste, with pepper and salt; then 
throw in the chicken. Let it boil a few minutes, then senre 
with the accompaniments of jelly and plain boiled rice. 

MBS. ▲• T. STBWABT^S AFPLB-PUDDING. 

m a well-buttered pudding-dish with alternate layers ci 
bread-crambs from a stale loa( and tart, juicy apples, peeled, 
cored, and cut in slices. Sprinkle the apples thickly with sugar, 
to which add a flayoring of nutmeg. Over each layer of bread* 
crombs strew small bits of sweet butter. The under layer in 
the dish should be bread-crumbs, the top layer apples. 

Bake half to three quarters of an hour. Just before it is done, 
whisk the whites of three eggs to a froth, with two table-spoon- 
Alls of powdered sugar and the juice of a lemon. Spread it 
lightly over the top ; return to the oven to set, but do not allow 
t to oolor. Serre warm or cold. 

▲ mw HUCKLBBEBBT PUDDDfe. 

A lady, being invited by a wealthy friend to stop to lunch, 
was surprised to find upon the table only one dish, and that a 
black mass, which did not look at all attractiya She was, how- 
eyer, helped to a slice of it, and it proved to be the best hucke- 
berry pudding she ever ate. The receipt for it was as follows : 

One quart of flour, stirred to the consistence of cup-cake, with 
milk and water, or water only ; a tea-spopnful of saleratus^ and 



80B0SIS BSOEIFTS. 343 

M many huckleberries m cail be crowded in. fioil in a bag 
dipped first in boiling water, afterward well floured four bourse 
without stopping. Serve with a rich fruit or wine sauce. 

MUX. DBMOBBST^S rAYOBITB INDIAN HUCKLEBBRRT PUDDINO. 

Stir into a quart of boiling milk enough meal to make a mo« 
derately stiff batter. Add a couple of beaten eggs, a little salt, 
a small cup of finely-chopped suet, a little molasses, and a quart 
of huckleberries. Boil two hours in a bag, leaying room to 
swelL $erre with a rich liquid sauce. 

MB. DK]COB]IST*S rAYORITB rBUIT-LITNCH. 

Peel a laige red banana, and slice it into a quart of new milk. 
Add a little pulled French roll and a pint of large red Antwerp 
raspberries. 

angib's lbxonads. 

Peel a juicy pine-apple, and slice it into a large bowl or 
pitcher. Add to it a lump of clear ice, the juice of ax lemons, 
and three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar. Let this stand 
half an hour; then add three pints of water gradually, stirrimi 
dl tba time S«nre with a slice of pine^ipple in each tombkr. 



GENUINE BEOEIPTS FBOM THE ONEIDA 

OOMMCJNITY. 



OUBBAHT JSLLT. 



Put the currants Into a saucepan ; allow them to just boiL 
Press ont the Juice, and to six quarts add eight pounds of sogar. 
BoQ unta of €be right consistence. 

SASFBIBBT JSUtT. 

Follow the ahore directions ; using fiye pounds of sugar to six 
quarts of juice. 

Jellies of other kinds of firuit are made in nearly the same 
manner. We differ from some in cooking the fruit before press- 
ing out the juice. There seems to be a certain richness retained 
otherwise lost Sugar must be varied as the fruit is mUd or 
tart 

PICKLING. 

One gallon vinegar, ten pounds of sugar boiled together, and 
skimmed for a syrup. Use whole cloves, mace, or spices to the 
taste. One pound eight ounces of fruit (pears, peaches, crab- 
apples, etc.) to a quart bottle ; cover the frxiit with the syrup ; 
heat eight or ten minutes after the water in which the bottles are 
placed boils ; cork and seal. 

We have a method of corking the bottles before cooking tho 
fruit) which retains more of the flavor ; but the process requires 
machinery for pressing in the corks, letting out the gas generated, 
etc., not likely to be found in a private &mily. 

I am sorry I can not give the weight of sugar to be used in 
Tureserving. We have no rule for the weight of sugar ; we 189 
instead a saccharometer, for determining the density of the 



HBCSIFTS FROM THE ONEIDA COHICUNITT. 346 

Bymp; an instrumenl easily procured, and much more con- 
Tenient than the process of weighing. 

FOB PBESEBTINO PINB-AFPLB. 

One pound six ounces of pine-apple to a quart bottle ; syrup 
19^ density. Cook eight minutes after the water in which the 
bottles are placed boils. Cork and seal Of course boil' and 
1 kim the syrup before covering the firuit 

8WEBT CHBBBIBS. 

One pound and a half of cherries to a quart bottle. Syrup, 
19^ density. Tart cherries require stronger syrup. Follow the 
aboTe directions for boiling, etc. 

BA8PBBBBIB8. 

One pound nine ounces of berries to a quart bottle. Syrupy 
24^ density. 

PLUMS. 

One pound eight ounces to a quart Syrup, 26** density, for 
greoi and yellow gages ; 28** for blue plums. 

PBACHES. 

One and a half pounds to a quart Syrup, 22* density. Pean 
the same. 

CANKBD TOM ATOBS. 

Scald and skin the tomatoes ; drain off all the juice. Fill the 
can till it weighs two pounds. Add one large table-spoonful of 
syrup made in the following manner: To one gallon of water 
one and one half pound of salt ; the same of sugar Seal the 
cans ; boil thirty minutes. Take them firom the watei ; open the 
rent for the escape of the gas, and seal again. 



t 

^ 



346 BHOAlFTB IfBOM tAS ONAll>A COMMlTMmr. 
▲NOTHBB RECEIPT FOB COOKING TOMATOFS. 

Oook the tomatoes in an enameled kettle ten to fifteen minutes 
Take the bottles from hot water ; fill them. Use the same allow 
BiMM of syrup to a quart ; cork and seal while the bottles air 
hot 

8TRAWBERRT SHORTCAKE. 

One quart of flour, one large coffee-cupful of milk. " Hors- 
ford's Self-Raising Bread Preparation/^ (a measure accompanies 
the powder,) the large measure for acid, the smaller one for soda 
—one of each ; a little salt ; two table-spoonfuls of butter. The 
soda and acid should be sifted into the flour and thoroughly 
mixed. Rub the butter into the flour ; add the milk ; mix and 
spread the dough three fourths of an inch thick on tin plates ; 
put immediately into a quick oven and bake twenty minutes. 
One quart of berries to shortcake, well mixed with sugar. Cut 
the shortcake open, butter the lower half, spread on half the 
oerries ; the upper half in the same maimer, and place over the 
.ower. 

Any other preparation besides Horsford^s will do. We for 
merly used sour cream and soda. 

BREAD. 

Soak one cake of " Twin Brothers New V^etable Dry Hop 
Yeast" in a small quantity of water, until dissolved. Add 
a pint of water slightly warm ; stir in flour until very 
thick, and allow it to remain over night Heat a quart of milk 
to the temperature of 180** F. ; stir in a quart of flour and 
the yeast; mix thoroughly. When done, sprinkle on flour; 
when sufficiently light, the flour will be cracked on the top of the 
dough. When light, mix in flour enough to mould it easily; 
mould fi'pm five to ten minutes. Let it rise, and mould agaia 
When risen the third time, send to the oven Bake one hour. 



RICHFIELD SPRINGS RECEIPTS. 



Tbs following four receipts were obtained by the author from 
(he Fuller House, Richfield Springs. We can vouch for theif 
excellence. 

LBMON PUDDINO MERINOUB. 

One quart of sweet milk, one pint of bread-crumbs, four eggs, 
half a cup of butter, one small cup of white sugar, one lemon. 
Put bread in part of milk, add yolks, butter, and sugar; beat to- 
gether with the remainder of the milk. After it is baked, beat 
whites of eggs to a stiff froth with three table-spoonfuls of pow- 
dered sugar and juice of lemon. Cover, and brown lightly. 

OMELET. 

Six eggs, two table-spoonfuls of batter, one table-spoonful of 
flour, one and a half cups of milk. Warm the milk to melt the 
butter, beat the eggs separately, to the yolks put the milk, then 
add beaten whites. 

CREAM PIB. 

Crust : One cup of white sugar, one cup of flour, three ^^s, 
one tea-spoon of cream tartar, half of soda. Dissolve soda in one 
table-spoonful of water ; put the flour in a dish, add the sugar and 
cream of tartar, mix all together ; then break in the ^gs, stir, 
and put in the soda ; if not quite stiff enough, put in more 
flour. 

Cream, : Half a pint of milk, quarter of a cup of sugar, half of 
flour, one egg. Boil the milk ; beat together sugar, egg, and 
flour ; stir in a little cold milk to this, and when the other milk 
boils, add the mixture. When cake and cream are both ool^ 
gplit the cake and put cream between. £nough for two pieii 



848 BIOBFISLD SPBD^OS BBCBIFT& 

OOBN-BBBAD. 

Two eggs, two table-spoonfuls of sugar, one cup of sweet milk, 
one cap of sour milk, two handfuls of flour, one tea-spoonful of 
ioda^ a little salt, meal to thicken. 

AUNT FAKNT's BITTERMILK BISCUIT. 

Into one quart of thick buttermilk, stir Graham flour to make 
• thick batter, add a little salt, a tea-spoonful of carbonate of 
■oda or saleratus, and a tea-spoonful of melted butter. Beat to 
the oonsistencj of drop-cake, and drop a table-spoonful for eaeh 
biscuit on a buttered pan. Bake twenty minutes. 

ENOUSH TULX CAKB. 

Two pounds of sifted flour, half a pound of sweet butter, one 
pound of spgar, three quarters of a pound of well-cleaned Zante 
currants, same of raisins, six eggs, quarter of a pound of candied 
citron and lemon-peel, quarter of a pound of almonds chopped^ 
or hickory nuts, half an ounce of cinnamon, one nutm^, one 
glass of wine, one glass of brandy. Bake in square pans, crosa 
with a knife before baking, break into pieces, and keep in a tin 
box, 

ITBAWBBBBIBS WHOLE — A FINB BXGEIPT. 

Take an equal weight of powdered loaf-sugar and fruit 
Place the latter in a deep dish, and lay half the sugar over it, 
shaking gently so that it will touch the under side of the fruit, 
which must haye been picked perfectly dry. Coyer the disl\ 
and put it in the ice-box, not touching the ice. Next day make 
a thin clear syrup of the remainder of the sugar, put in one pint 
of red currant juice to every three pounds of berries, and in this 
simmer them gently for about fifteen minutes, or until sufficiontly 
Jellied. Choose the largest scarlet berries, and not too ripe. 

LBICBSTEBSHIRB HUNTINO BBEV. 

Take four ounces of saltpetre, an ounce of allspice, and rub it 
well oyer a fine round of beef. Let it stand twenty-four hours. 



BICHFIBLD SPBIN63 BECEIPTS. 849 

Aon rub in as much d6mmon salt as will salt it sufficiently. 
Keep it in a cool place twelve days, turning it every day, then 
put it into a deep pan, and cover it under and over with three 
Dounds of beef suet. Cover it with a thick paste, and bake it 

i.bwly six hours. It will keep for two months, and is famous fof 

ts excellence. 

uotheb's biscuits. 

These biscuits, which are very nice and very simple, are made 
of fine white bread dough, with the addition of a little butter 
worked in by hand. Spread out the dough, break the butter 
small knead it in well, roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, cut 
out the biscuits, prick them, and let them stand in a warm place, 
covered with a cloth for half an hour. Then bake them a light 
brown. 

These, with stewed potatoes, cream-pie, and firuit, used to fom 
0W Slimmer Sunday morning breakfast, at home. 



A STRONG-MINDED WOMAN'S RECEIPTS 



WHIPPKD STLLABUB. 



Takb good sweet cream, to eadi pint put six ounces of double- 
refined sugar, half a tumbler of white wine, the juice and grated 
rind of a lemon. Beat the whole well together. Put jelly in 
glasses, and coyer them with the froth as fast as it rises. 

ICK CURRANTS. 

Take large bunches of ripe currants, wash and drain them dry, 
then dip them into the whites of eggs, previously beaten toastiil 
froth. Lay them on a sieve, at such a distance as not to touch 
each other. Sift white sugar over them thick, and set them in a 
warm place to dry. 

LBMON CREAM. 

Pare four fresh lemons very thin, so as to get none of the 
white part Soak the rinds twelve hours in half a pint of cold 
water, then add the juice of the lemons, and half a pint more of 
cold water. Beat to a froth the whites of eight ^gs and the 
yolks of three. Strain the lemon-juice and water, mix it with 
the eggs, set the whole in a few ovals, sweeten it with powdered 
white sugar, and stir till it grows thick, then take it from the fire 
and stir till cold. Serve in glasses. 

SNOW CREAM. 

Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, then stir in two 
table-spoons of powdered white sugar, a table-spoon of sweet 
wine, a tea-spoon of rose water. Beat the whole well together. 
Then add a pint of thick cream. This is a nice accompaniment 
io a dessert of sweetmeats. 



▲ STEONG-MlNi)i£D WOMAN's RECEIPTS. 361 

SPANISH FRITTERS. 

Cut the soft part of a baker's loaf in slices of a quarter of an 
jich thick, and of any fqrm you please. Take a pint of milk or 
cream, three well -beaten eggs, half a tea-spoon of nutmeg and 
cinnamon mixed, three drops of the essence of lemon, sugar to 
taste, stir well together and pour over the slices. When they have 
absorbed as much of the milk as they will, take them out before 
they get too soft, and fry it a nice light brown on both sides. 

They may be served with or without sauce. 



CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Pick and wash three quarts of cranberries. Put them into a 
stewpan with one quart of water. Cover the pan, and when 
they are stewed under, stir in two quarts of sugar, stir until all 
the sugar is dissolved ; then take the sauce from the fire, dish, and 
serve. The above proportions are easily remembered: one 
quart of water, two of sugar, and three of cranberries. And 
ihey will always make an excellent sauca 



POTATO BALLS. 

Mix mashed potatoes with the yolk of one egg, roll them into 
balls, flour them, or roll in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry a light 
brown in good drippings. 



CORN-BREAD WITHOUT MILK. 

For one quart of sifted meal, take six eggs and two table-spoons 
of butter. Scald half the meal over night with boiling water and 
a little salt. In the morning take the remaining half, together 
with the portion scalded, and the yolks of the egg well-beaten and 
stirred together. Add the whites after having beaten them to a 
stiff froth. Butter small pans and bake in a quick oven. Thig 
makes a superior breakfast bread. 



352 k STBOKQ-MINDBD WOMAN^S BBCBIPIB. 

FOUHD OmreiR-BBXAD. (■XCSLLXHT.) 

One cup of butter, one cup of sugar, three eggs, one cup ol 
molasses, one tea-spoon of ginger, and half a one of cloves, half 
ea-spoon of soda, three cups of flour. 

N. 

▲LMOIID PUDDINO. (TUT UCH.) 

Blanch and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds and 
a few bitter ones. Put in rose-water — about one table-spoon; 
a wine-glass of wine, the yolks of six ^gs, six ounces of butter, 
juice of one lemon, the peel of two grated, one quart of cream. 
When mixed, bake half an hour, with paste round the dish. 

- SAGO PUDDING. 

Eight spoonfuls of sago, with cinnamon, nutmeg, and lemon- 
peel in a quart of new milk ; sweeten to taste. Put in six eggs, 
and bake with paste. 

INDIAN MIAL DB0P8. 

One quart Indian meal, one and a half pints of water, one egg 
well beaten ; rub a small piece of shortening in the meal oyer 
night ; a little salt Should not stand after being mixed together. 

OINOEB-NVTS. 

Ten cups of flour, three cups of molasses, one cup of melted 
butter or pork gravy, (it is good half and hal() one cup of sour 
cream, two table-spoons of saleratus, dissolved in a half a cup of 
warm water, one table-spoon of ginger; make as soft as can be 
rolled, and bake quick. This keeps well. 

mVALVABLB 8ALTI. 

Take three carrots, and grate them, place in a vessel, and cover 
with lard, without salt, if convenient Boil thoroughly, strain 
and add sufficient beeswax to make a paste. This is a most in- 
valuable ointment for cuts, burns, scalds, or wounds of any kind 



▲ STBONO-MINDSD WOMAn's BXOIUPTS. S5S 

A poultice of cranberries is a certain cure for erysipelas. 

For the bite of a mad dog, wash the wound immediately with 
warm yin^ar or tepid water. After washing it clean, pour in a 
few drops of muriatic add, because mineral acids destroy the 
oison of the saliya. The evil effect is thus neutralized. 

CREAM 8P0NGB CAKB. 

Five eggs, one cup of sweet cream, one cup of white sugar, one 
cup of flour, tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, half of soda. Season 
with lemon. 

SPICSD CVBRANTS. 

Five pounds ripe currants, four pounds brown sugar, two 
table-spoons cloves, two table-spoons cinnamon, one pint vinegar. 
Boil two hours or more, till quite thick. 

MILK ORUEL. 

Mix together half a tumblerful each of warm milk and tolera- 
oly thick grueL This makes a nutritious and perfectly safe be- 
verage for the sick, and, when the debility is extreme, will sus- 
tain the powers of nature when nothing else can with safety be 
given. 

TO KEEP WORMS FROM DRIED FRUIT. 

Place your fruit in a steamer, over a pot of boiling watei; 
covered tightly. When thoroughly heated, tie them immediate- 
ly in a clean linen or cotton bag, and hang them up. This me- 
thod is preferable to heating in an oven, as that is apt to render 
them hard, even if you are so fortunate as not to bum them. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One quart of flour, two eggs well beaten, piece of butter the 
dze of an egg melted in a pint of milk, half a tea-cup of yeasty • 
itdesalt 



854 ▲ flTBONQ-MINDBD WOMAn'b BBGEIPTiL 



GABBOT POL 

Scrape the skin off the carrots, boil them soft, and strain fben 
through a sieve. To a pint of the strained puip put three pints 
of milk, six beaten eggs, two table>spoons melted butter, juice of 
half a lemon, grated rind of a whole one. Sweeten to jour taste, 
and bake it in deep pie-plates, without upper crust. 

A HINT TO HOUSEKEEPERS. 

A few drops of carbonate of ammonia, in a small quantity of 
warm rain-water, will prove a safe and easy anti-acid, and will 
change, if carefully applied, discolored spots upon carpets, and 
indeed, all spots, whether produced by acids or alkalies. If one 
has the misfortune to have a carpet injured *by whitewash, this 
will immedi€Uely restore it 

PAINTED PAHiS. 

All persons should avoid using painted pails. A coat of var- 
nish on the outside is all the embellishment we should desire to 
see on a water-pail. Evils involving life may be the result 

CBBAM-CAKES. — ^A CONFECTIONEB's BECEIPT. 

One pint of milk, three eggs, a little salt, and flour enough to 
make a thin batter ; bake in hearts and rounds. This is the out- 
side. For the filling take half a pint of cream, two eggs ; boil 
like soft custard, and flavor with vanilla. A little nice flour- 
paste stirred gradually into the cream while boiling greatly im- 
proves it Gut open the batter when baked and fill with the 
custard. 

SUOAB aiNOEBBBEAD. 

One quart molasses, one half pound sugar, three quarters 
tf a pound butter and lard mixed, five eggs, sugar and butter 
creamed ; then add the eggs, one quarter of a pound ginger, if 
strong, one tea-spoon saleratus dissolved in half a tea-cup of milk, 
as much flour as will make it the stiffness of pound-cake dough. 



▲ STBOXGhinNDED WOMAN^S BECEIPTS. 35ft 

Rake it in a slow oven. A very excellent receipt, and keepi 
well ' 

TROT PUDDDia 

One cup milk, one cup suet, one cup raisins, one cup molasses, 
three and a half cups flour, one tea-spoon soda. Boil three hoursi 
and eat with hot wine sauce. 

RLLNOATKLLl'S BBCBIPT FOB BAISSD LBICBSTBBSHIBE POBK-PIB. 

Out the pork up in square pieces, fat and lean, ahout the size 
of a cob-nut, season with pepper and salt, and a small quantity 
of sage and thyme chopped fine, and set it aside on a dish in a 
cool place. Next, make some hot-water paste, using for this 
purpose (if desired) fresh-made hog's lard instead of butter, in 
the proportion of eight ounces to the pound of flour. These pies 
must be raised by hand, in the following manner : First, mould 
the paste into a round ball upon the slab, then roll it out to the 
thickness of half an inch, and with the back of the right hand in- 
dent the centre in a circle reaching to within three inches of the 
edge of the paste ; next, gather up the edges all round, pressing 
it closely with the fingers and thumbs, so as to give to it the 
form of a purse ; then continue to work it upward, until the 
sides are raised sufficiently high ; the pie should now be placed 
on a baking-sheet, with a round of buttered paper under it, and 
after it has been filled with the pork, previously prepared for 
the purpose, covered in with some of the paste in the usual man- 
ner. Trim the edges, and pinch it round with the pincers, deco- 
rate it, egg it over, and bake it until done ; calculating the time 
it should remain in the oven, according ^to the quantity of meat 
ft contains. 

VELVET CBBAM. 

. To a pint of cream put a very little sugar ; keep sturring it over 
■he fire till the sugar is dissolved, and then take it off; but keep 
on stirring it till it is about the warmth of new milk, aft»r which 
poor it through a fine colander into a dish containing three 
epoonfols of lemon or orange-jufce, a little grated peel, and a littl« 



356 A STfiONQ-KlNDEO WOUAJS'ti RBCEIPTS. 

marmalade, chopped small, with two spoonfuls of white wina 
This should be prepared about twenty-four hours before it ia 
wmnted for use. 

OEBMAN SOUP. 

Boil a knuckle of veal, or any yeal bones, and some good 
•lock ; then add one or two turnips, one carrot, and some onionSi 
a little lemon and thyme, and a small stick of celery. Let all 
boil well, strain it for use, ftien thicken, and add the yolks of five 
or six eggs to about three quarts of soup, and one gill of cream ; 
pepper and salt to taste. An excellent soup. — ^om a German 
lady. 

WISE FROM ORANOBS. 

To ten gallons of water put twenty-eight pounds of loaf-sugar 
and the whites of six eggs ; boil them together for three quarters 
of an hour, keeping the liquor well skimmed all the time, and 
pour it hot into a tub or large pan, over the peels of fi^ty Seville 
oranges. >V hen nearly cool, spread three tea-spoonfuls of yeast 
oyer a slice of toasted bread, and put it into the liquor to make 
t ferment ; let it stand for two or three days ; then pour from the 
peels into a cask, with a gallon of orange-juice^-(the fruit should 
6e large, rough-rinded, and sour) — this takes about one hundred 
and twenty Seville oranges ; let it remain in the cask until fer- 
mentation ceases ; this done, draw off as much as will admit one 
quart of brandy to every five gallons of wine. When kept about 
four or five years, it is found to surpass some of the best foreign 
wines sold in this country. 

PALM WINS. 

Of this wine Pliny the historian has said thus much : "It v 
made by taking one bushel of dates of the palm-tree, and throw- 
ing them into three gallons of water; then squeezing out th«* 
juice, it will intoxicate like wine." When drunk new, it has th* 
taste of the cocoa, and sweet as honey ; when kept for a while, it 
grows strong, and intoxicates if drunk freely. After long expo- 
iure to the air, it becomes vinegar. Though this recipe is not 8 



A STBONG-AaNDED "WOMAN*S BKOEIPTS. o67 

rorj ccmTenient one, some may be induced to try it, and are 
likely to be disappointed. 

MOCK TURKEY. 

{Author's Receipt.) 

Take a leg of mutton that has been kept for several days, but 
(s perfectly sweet and good ; take out the bone, (or get your 
butcher to do it for you,) and fill the cnvity with a dressing as 
for turkey. Put it in a deep pan half filled with water, cover 
down close with another, and cook it in a moderate oven for 
three hours at least, basting frequently. Then remove the cover, 
pour off the liquor, let it stand to cool, skim the fat off, and put 
it back again. Let the meat brown, basting often, and add to 
the gravy a table- spoonful of tomato catsuo. before serving. 



PEACH PIE. 

{Authoi's Receipt) 

Select medium-sized, high-flavored peaches, peel them, and lay 
the peaches whole in an earthen dish, the kind for making oyster 
pie. Lay Ihe peaches close, and cover them thickly with white 
or light-brown sugar. Finish with a rim and upper crust of 
puff, or good flaky paste. Bake in a moderate oven. This is the 
only way to make peach pie. 

CLARET PUNCH. 

(Author's Receipt) 

Cut up in a bowl half a dozen fine fresh lemons, in thin slices; 
add to them one pound of loaf-sugar, and set away for two hours, 
covering down close. When required for use, put in a large lump 
of clear Ice, a bottle of good claret, a half bottle of sherry, and 
three pints of water. Mix thoroughly. 



d6S MB8. PAStlNGTON^S THANESGtVINa TUUKlBt. 
MEATS AND THEIS ACCOMPAlTDaENTC. 

^th roast -beef^ grated horse-radish. 

Roast pork, apple sayce. 

Roast Teal, tomato or mushroom sauce. 

Roast mutton, currant jelly. 

Boiled mutton, caper sauce. 

Boiled chicken, bread sauce. 

Roast lamb, mint sauce. 

Roast turkey, cranberry sauce. 

Boiled turkey, oyster sauce. 

Venison or wild ducks, black currant jelly. 

Broiled fresh mackerel, sauce of stewed gooseberri«k 

Boiled blueftsh, white " cream*' sauce. 

Broiled shad, boiled rice and salad. 

Compote of pigeons, mushroom sauce. 

Fresh salmon, green peas, ** cream'* sauce. 

Roast goose, apple sauce. 

MBS. Partington's THANKsoiviNa turkst. 

Mt Dear Mrs. Orolt : I sent you, a day or two since, i 
brief notice of your book ; that deserves much more, for I regard 
it, as far it suits our latitude, the best cook-book ever published 
— all the mesda/mes masculine paling before it But wife and I 
sitting here alone the night before Thanksgiving, the book the 
theme, she has indulged some queries regarding some of your dishes. 
She is a capital plain cook, and has much genius in tickling the 
palate in a &ncy way ; and queried «ome things, excellent in 
New-York, doubtless, but not reconcilable with New-Harapshire 
and Massachusetts notions. For instance, the '' stuffing'' of a 
turkey, a work she has just accomplished, and which we regard 
marrelous — her mode is so different, I have asked her receipt 
for you, that you m^y introduce it in your next edition as the 
Partingtonian method. The "stuffing" is made of pounded 
bread-crumbs or cracker, sweet-marjoram, pepper, salt, and but* 
tor, mixed m hard as the dough of hard (cmgerbread. This is foi 



KB8. PAATINOTON^B THAKKSaiYIKQ TUBKST. 350 

die CMYity of the CTO>p ^.^xs^^ which may he extended hy breaking 
off the neokf and filling the skin thereo£ This stuffing, with a 
rich gra /y, is delicious. The body of the turkey is seasoned with 
pepper and salt, the amount according to the size of the turkeys- 
half a tea-spoonful of each for a small one. The basting must be 
IS described by you, minus the sausages. Now this, my dear 
Ifrs. C, is a toothsome thing, as I could convince you, were you 
dere to-morrow. Mrs. S. does not criticise — onlv wonders. She 
likes the book very much, and thinks it very valuable for ne^ 
housekeepers — ^your specific and intelligent directions being, she 
regards, admirable, as I certainly do. I have never seen so much 
wholesome counsel given in a book of the kind— indeed, none 
that is possible to be made practicable. I think I shall be doing 
my daughter the best possible service by giving her the copy thai 
came to us from the publishers as a Christmas present. I thank 
you for the copy you sent me. That Mrs. S. will not part with 

Yours ever truly, 

B. P. Shtt.t.abwl 

P.&— J^Wioy SOeik The turkey was a Buoo6«k 



FISH CARVING. 

flZNBRAL DIRBCTIOKS FOR CAHYIHa 

In carving fish, care should be taken to help it In perfect flakes, 
•8, if these are broken, the beauty of the flsli is lost. The carver 
should be acquainted, too, with the choicest parta and morsels; 
and to give each guest an equal share of those titbile should be 
his maxim, fiteel knives and forks should on no account be 
u^c^ In helping fish, as these are liable to impart to it a very dis- 
agreeable flavor. Where silver fish-carvers are considered too 
dear to be bought, good electro -plated oues answer very well, 
and are inexpensive. Fish knives and forks are now usually 
placed by each contive; they are of the same shape as the fish- 
carvers. 

cod's hkad and aHouLDBRs. 

First run the knife along 
the center of the aide of 
the fish, namely, from d to 
b, down lo the bone; then 
carve it in unbroken slices 
downward from d to e, or 
upward from ij to r, as 
shown in the engraving. 

The carver should ask the puests if they would like a portion 

of the roe and liver. 

Nott. — Of ihlsflsh, the parts about the backbone and shoul- 
ders are the firmest, and most esteemed by connoisseurs. Tb* 
sound, which lines the fish beneath the backbone, is considered 
a delicacy, as art alto the gslatinous parts about the bead and 
peck. 



■ ^LHOX- 

ViTtt ran the knifa quite 
down to the bone, along the 
side of the fish, from a to b, and 
also from e to rf. Then help the 
thick part lengthwise — that la, q, 
in the direction of the linea ( 
from a to b; and the thin part 
breadthwise — that is, in the 
direction of the lines from e to /, a 
slice of the thiclt part ehould always 1 
piece ol the thin from the belly, where lies the fat of the fish. 

JVote. — Man^ persona, In carving salmon, make the mistake of 
slicing the thict part of this lish in tlie opposite direction to 
that we have stated ; and thus, by the breaking of the flakes, the 
beauty of its appearance is destroyed. 

Halibut is prepared so &s lo look a little like English filet of 

UlSCELLANEOUS. 

Other fish, when of a sutficiently targe size, may be carved 
In the same manner as salmon. When small, they may be cnt 
through, bone and all, and helped In nice pieces, a middle-sized 
whiting serving for two slices. 

Note. — The thick part of the eel is reckoned the best; and this 
holds good of all flat fish. 

The tail of the lobster is the prime part, and next to that the 
claw a 

BEEP CARVING. 

A boiled ^tchbone of beef is not a difficult Joint to carve, as 
win be seen on reference to the ac- 
companying engraving. By follow- 
ing with the knife the direction of 
the line from 1 to 3, nice slices will 
bt easily cat. It may be necessary, 
U in a round of beef, to cut a thick 
idic« oS th« outside before commencing 




869 



OARVINa. 




BBIBKBT OF BEEF. 

There is but little description necessary to add, to show the 

carving of a boiled brisket of beef, 
beyond the engraving here inserted. 
The only point to be observed is 
that the joint should be cut evenly 
and firmly quite across the bones. 

80 that on its reappearance at the table it shoidd not have a 

jagged and untidy look. 

RIBS OF BEEF. 

This dish resembles the sirloin, except tliat it has no fillet or 
undercut. As explained in the recipes, the end piece is often 
cut oflf, salted and boiled. The mode of carving is similar to that of 
the sirloin, viz. : in the direction of the dotted line from 1 to 2. 

This joint will be the more easily cut if 
the plan be pursued which is suggested in 
carving the sirloin, namely : the inserting 
of the knife Immediately between the 
bone and the meat before commencing to 
cut it into slices. All joints of roast beef should be cut in even 
and thin slices. Horse-radish, finely scraped, may be served as 
a garnish; but horse-radish sauce is preferable for eating with 
the beef. 

SIRLOIN OF BEEF. 

This dish is served differently at various tables, some prcfer- 
ing it to come to table with the fillet, or, as it is usually called, 
the undercut uppermost. The reverse way, as shown in the cut, 
14 that most usually adopted. Still the undercut is best eaten 

when hot; consequently, the carver 
himself may raise the joint, and cut 
some slices from the under side, in 
the direction of from 1 to 2, as the 
fillet is very much preferred by some 
eaters. The upper part of the sirloin 
should be cut in the direction of the 
line from 5 to 6, and care should be taken to carve it evenly and 
in thin slloea. It will be found a great assiBtance, in carving 





CARV1N(J. 



S63 



this joint well, if the knife be first inserted just above the bone 
at the bottom, and run sharply along between the bone and 
meat, and also to divide the meat from the bone in the same way 
at the side of the joint. The slices will then come away more 
readily. Some carvers cut the upper side of the sirloin across, 
as shown by the line from 3 to 4; but this is a wasteful plan, and 
one not to be recommended. "With the sirloin, very finely 
scraped horse-radish is usually served, and a little given, when 
liked, to each guest. Horse-radish sauce is preferable, however, 
for serving on the plate, although the scraped horse-radish may 
still be used as a garnish. 

A ROUND OP BEEP. 

A round of beef is not so easily carved as many other joints 
of beef, and to manage it properly, a 
thin-bladed and very sharp knife is 
necessary. Off the outside of the 
joint, at its top, a thick slice should 
first be cut, so as to leave the surface 
smooth; then thin and even slices 
should be cleverly carved in the direction of the line 1 to 2: and 
with each slice of the lean a delicate morsel of the fat should 
be served. 

BEEP TONGUE. 

Passing the knife down in the direction of from 1 to 2, a not 
too thin slice should be helped; and 
the carving of a tongue may be con- 
tinued in this way until the best por- 
tions of the upper side are served. The 
fat which lies about the root of the 
tongue can be served by turning the tongue, and cutting in the 
direction of from 8 to 4 





A I 





MUTTON AND LAMB CABYINa 

aAt7:TCH OF MUTTON. 

A deep cut should, in the first place, be made quite down to 

the bone, across the knuckle-end of 
the joint, along the line 1 to 2. This 
will let the gravy escape; and then 
it should be carved, in not too thick 
HATTNOH OF MUTTON. sliccs, aloug tlic wholc Icugth of the 

haunch, in the direction of the line from 4 to o. 

LEG OP MUTTON. 

This homely, but capital English joint, is almost invariably 
served at table as shown in the engraving. The carving of it ia > 

not very difficult: the knife should be car- 
ried sharply down in the direction of the line 
from 1 to 2, and slices taken from either side, 
as the guests may desire, some liking the 
knuckle-end, as well done, and others pre- 
ferring the more underdone part. The fat should be sought 
near the line 3 to 4. Some connoisseurs are fond of having this 
joint dished with the under side uppermost, so as to get at the 
finely-grained meat lying under that part of the meat known 
as the Pope's eye; but this is an extravagant fashion, and one 
that will hardly find favor in the eyes of many economical 
housewives and housekeepers. 

LOIN OP MUTTON. 

There is one point in connection with carving a loin of mut 
ton which includes every other; that is, that the joint should be 

thoroughly well jointed by the butcher be- 
fore it is cooked. This knack of jointing 
requires practice and the proper took; and 
,— no one but the butcher is supposed to have 

LoiK OF inrrroF. these. If the bones be not well jointed, { 

the carving of a loin of mutton is not a gracious business ; where- i 

as. If that has been attended to, it is an easy and untroublesome 
task. The knife should be inserted at figure 1, and after feeling 
your way between the bones, it should be carried sharply in the 
direction of the line 1 to 2. As there are some people who pre- 




1 



cAKViNa. 865 

f er the outside cut, while others do not like It, the question as to 
their choice of this should be asked. 

SADDLE OF MUTTON. 

Although we have heard, at various intervals, complaints 
made at the inevitable "saddle of mutton "at the dinner-par- 
ties of our middle classes, yet we doubt 
whether any other joint is better liked, ff^ ^- ^ 

when it has been well hung and artistic- W*' """Sv" --^^ 

ally cooked. There is a diversity of opin- ^f^ .^ x^^ 

ion respecting the mode of sending this "'"Tflf - T" "^ 

joint to table; but it has only reference saddle of muttv 
to whether or no there shall be any portion of the tail, or, if so, 
how many joints of the tail. We ourselves prefer the mode as 
shown in the illustration here given; but others may, upon 
equally good grounds, like the way shown in the engraving on 
this page. Some trim the tail with a paper frill. The carving 
is not difficult : it is usually cut in the direction of the line from 
2 to 1, quite down to the bones, in evenly -sliced pieces. A fash- 
ion, however, patronized by some, is to carve it obliquely, in the 
direction of the line from 4 to 3; in that case the joint would be 
turned round the other way, having the thin end on the right of 
the carver. 

SHOULDEB OF MUTTON, 

This is a joint not difficult to carve. The knife should be 
drawn from the outer edge of the shoulder in the direction of 
the line from 1 to 2, until the bone of the shoulder is reached. 
As many slices as can be carved in this man- 
ner should be tak^^ and afterward the meat 
lying on either side of the blade-bone should 
be served, by carving in the direction of 3 to 
4 and 3 to 4. The uppermost side of the 
shoulder being now finished, the joint should tHouLDm o» mittto* 
be turned, and slices taken off along its whole length! There 
are some who prefer this under-side of the shoulder for its juicy 
flesh, although the grain of the meat is not so fine as that on the 
other 8ide» 




ZSt CAltTIK<3k 

rOBB-QlTABTER OF LAMB. 

We always think that a good and practiced carver delights in 

the manipulation of this joint, for there is a little field for his 

judgment and dexterity which does not always occur. The sep- 

I aration of the shoulder from the 

jT^^T'^S' "W^^"^"^ breast is the first point to be at 

\7^»Yjr ^^-==n : 1 \ tended to; this is done by pass- 

\\ijf '^^^^,^^__L « T th ^^ ^^® knife lightly round the 
^ ^^ Li^i^^^ /^'Ji^nT'i-g dotted line, as shown by the fig- 
^"JWI' iTTi — ^'^"^^ ures 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5, so as to cut 
FOB»-quA.BTBB OF LAMB. through thc sklu, aud then, by rais- 
ing with a little force the shoulder, into which the fork should 
be firmly fixed, it will come away with just a little more exercise 
of the knife. In dividing the shoulder and breast, the carver 
should take care not to cut away too much of the meat from the 
latter, as tnat would rather spoil its appearance when the shoul- 
der is removed. The breast and shoulder being separated, it is 
usual to lay a small piece of butter, and sprinkle a little cayenne, 
lemon juice, and salt between them; and when this is melted 
and incorporated with the meat and gravy, the shoulder 
may, as more convenient, be removed into another dish. 
The next operation is to separate the ribs from the brisket 
by cutting through the meat on the line 5 to 6. The joint is then 
ready to be served to the guests ; the ribs being carved in the 
direction of the lines from 9 to 10, and the brisket from 7 to 8. 
The carver should ask those at the table what parts they prefer— 
ribs, brisket, or a piece of the shoulder. 

LEG OF LAMB, LOIN OF LAHB, SADDLE OF LAMB, SHOULDBB OF 

LAMB, 

Are carved in the same manner as the corresponding joints of 
mutton. 



OAEVING. 



867 



PORK CARVINa. 




BUCKING-PIO. 

A BUcking-pig seems, at first sight, rather an elaborate dish, 
or rather animal, to carve; but by carefully mastering the de- 
tails of the business every difficulty will vanish; and if a partial 
failure be at first made, yet all em- 
barrassment will quickly disap- 
pear on a second trial. A sucking- 
pig is usually sent to table in the 
manner shown in the engraving. 
The first point to be attended to is 
to separate the shoulder from the carcase, by carrying the knife 
quickly and neatly round the circular line, as shown by the fig- 
ures 1, 2, 3; the shoulder will then easily come away. The next 
step is to take off the leg; and this is done in the same way, by 
cutting round this joint in the direction shown by the figures 
1, 2, 3, in the same way as the shoulder. The ribs then stand 
fairly open to the knife, which should be carried down in the 
direction of the line 4 to 5 ; and two or three helpings will dis- 
pose of these. The other half of the pig is served, of course, 
in the same manner. Different parts of the pig are variously 
esteemed; some prefering the flesh of the neck; others, the ribs; 
and others again, the shoulders. The truth is, the whole of a 
sucking-pig is delicious, delicate eating; but, in carving it, the 
host should consult the various tastes and fancies of his guests, 
keeping the larger joints generally for the gentlemen of the party. 

HAM. 

In cutting a ham, the carver must be guided according accord- 
ing as he desires to practice economy, or have, at once, fine slices 
out of the prime part. Under the first i 

supposition, he will commence at the 
knuckle-end, and cut off thin slices to- 
ward the thick part of the ham. To 
reach the choicer portion, the knife, > 

which must be very sharp and thin, ^^^' 

should be carried down to the bone, in the direction of the line 1 
to 2. The slices should be thin and even, and always cut down 




89a 



CARVING. 



to the bone. There are some who like ito carre a ham by cutting 
a hole at the top, and then slicing pieces oft inside the hole, grad- 
ually enlarging the circle; but we think this a plan not to be 
recommended. A ham, when hot, is usually sent to table with 
a paper ruffle, round the knuckle. 

LBG OP PORK. 

This joint, which is such a favorite one with many people, 
is easy to carve. The knife should be carried sharply down to 

the bone, clean through the crackling, in 
the direction of the line 1 to 2. Sage and 
onion and apple sauce are usually sent to 
table with this dish, sometimes a leg of 
pork is stuffed, and the guests should be 
LBG OF PORK. askcd if they will have either or both. A 

frequent plan, and we think a good one, is now pursued, of send- 
ing sage and onion to table separately from the joint, as it is 
not everybody to whom the flavor of this stuffing is agreeable. 

I^ote, — The other dishes of pork do not call for any special re- 
marks as to their carving or helping. 




VEAL CARVING. 



BRBAST OP VEAL. 



The carving of a breast of veal is not dissimilar to that of a 
fore-quarter of lamb, when the shoulder has been taken off. 
The breast of veal consists of two parts — the rib-bones and the 

gristley brisket. These two parts 
should first be separated by sharply 
passing the knife in the direction 
of the lines 1, 2; when they are 
entirely divided, the rib-bonea 
should be carved in the direction of the lines 5 to 6; and the 
brisket can be helped by cutting pieces in the direction 3 to 4. 
The carver should ask the guests whether they have a preference 
for the brisket or ribs; and if there be a sweetbread served with 
the dish, as it often is with roast breast of veal^ each person should 
receive a pieee. 




BBKABT OF TEAL. 



OAKVINO. 



369 




oalf's hbad. 



calf's hbad. 

This is not altogether the most easy looking dish to cut when 
it is put before a carver fpr the first time; there is not mttch real 
difficulty in the operation, however, when 
the head has been attentively examined, 
and, after the manner of a phrenologist^ 
you get to know its bumps, good and bad. 
In the first place, inserting the knife quite' 
down to the bone, cut slices in the direction of the line 1 to 2; 
with each of the^e should be helped a piece of what is called 
the throat sweetbread, cut in the direction of from 3 to 4 The 
eye, and the flesh round are favorite morsels with many, and 
should be given to those at the table who are known to be the 
greatest connoisseurs. The jawbone being removed, there will 
then be found some nice lean; and the palate, which is reckoned 
by some a tit-bit, lies under the head. On a separate dish there 
is always served the tongue and brains, and each guest should 
be asked to take some of these. 



FILLET OF VEAL. 

The carving of this joint is similar to that of a round of beef. 
Slices, not too thick, in the direction of the 
line 1 to 2 are cut; and the only point to be 
careful about is, that the veal be evenly 
carved. Between the flap and the meat the 
stuffing is inserted, and a small portion of 
this should be served to every guest. The person whom the 
host wishes most to honor should be asked if they like the deli- 
cious brown outside slice, as this, by many, is exceedingly rel- 
ished. 

KNUCKLE OF TEAL. 




FILLBT OF VEAli* 



The engraving, showing the dotted line 
from 1 to 2, sufficiently indicates the direc- 
tion which should be given to the knife in 
carving this dish. The best slices are those 
from the thickest part of the knuckle, that 
i% outside the line 1 to 3. 




370 



OJLBVINa. 



LOm OF VEAL. 

As U the case with a loin of mutton, the careful Jointing of a 
loin of veal is more than half the battle in carving it. If the 

butcher be negligent in this manner, he 
should be admonished ; for there is nothing 
more annoying or irritating to an inexperi- 
enced carver than to be obliged to turn liis 
knife in all directions to find the exact place 
where it should be inserted in order divide 
the bones. When the jointing is properly performed, there is 
little difficulty in carrying the knife down in the direction of the 
line 1 to 8. To each guest should be given a piece of the kid« 
ney and kidney-fat, which lie underneath, and are considered 
great delicacies. 




LOIN OF VCAL. 




BOABT DUOX. 



POULTRY CARVING. 

KOAST DUCK. 

No dishes require so much knowledge and skill in their carv- 
ing as do game and poultry, for it is necessary to be well ac- 
quainted with the anatomy of the bird 
and animal in order to place the knife at 
exactly the proper point. A tough fowl 
and an old goose are sad triers of a carver's 
powers and temper, and, indeed, some- 
times of the good humor of those m the neighborhood of the 
carver; for a sudden tilt of the dish may eventuate in the placing 

a quantity of the gravy in the lap of the right 
or left-hand supporter of the host. We will 
endeavor to assist tliose who are unacquainted 
with the ** gentle art of carvmg/' and also 
those who are but slightly acquainted with it, 
by simply describing the rules to follow, and 
referring to the distincly marked illustra- 
tions of each dish, which will further help to 
bring light to the minds of the unitiated. If 
the bird be a young duckling, it may be carved 
I, wufQ AMD KiBOK- li^c a bollcd fowl (see following article), but 
BOMS OF »uoK. ia cases where the duckling is very small it 






will be as well not to separate the leg from the wing, as they 
will not then form too large a portion for a single serving. After 
the legs and wings are disposed of, the remainder of the duck 
will be also carved in the same manner as a fowl; and not much 
difficulty will be experienced, as ducklings are tender, and the 
joints are easily broken by a little gentle forcing, or penetrated 
by the knife. In cases where the duck is a large bird, the better 
plan to pursue is then to carve it like a goose — that is, by cutting 
pieces from th^ breast iu the direction indicated by the lines 
marked from 1 to 2, commencing to carve the slices close to the 
wing, and then proceeding upward from that to the breastbone. 
If more should be wanted than can be obtained from both sides 
of the breast, then the legs and wings must be attacked in the 
same way as is described in connection with carving a fowl. It may 
here be remarked that, as the legs of a duck are placed far more 
backward than those of a fowl, their position causing the wad 
dling motion of the bird,4he thigh bones will be found consid 
erably nearer toward the backbone than in a chicken ; this is the 
only difference worth mentioning. The carver should ask each 
guest if a portion of stuffing would be agreeable; and in order to 
get at this, a cut should be made below the breast, as shown by 
the line from 3 to 4, at the part called the ''apron," and the 
spoon inserted. As described in the recipe, it is an excellent 
plan, when a couple of ducks are served, to have one with and 
the other without stuffing. As to the prime parts of a duck, 
it has been said that "the wings of a flyer and the legs of a 
swimmer " are severally the best portions. Some persons are 
fbnd of the feet of the duck; and, in trussing, these should never 
be taken off. The leg, wing, and neck bone are here shown; so 
that it will be easy to see the shape they should be when cut off. 

BOILED FOWL. 

This will not be found a very difficult member of the poultry 
family to carve, unless, as may happen, a very old farm-yard oc 
cupant, useless for egg-laying purposes, 
has, by some unlucky mischance, been in 
troduced into the kitchen as a " fine young 
chicken." Skill, however, and the appli- 
cation of a small amount of strength, com • 




BODJD WQlWJm 



bined with & fine seeping of the temper, will even get over thai 
difficulty. Fixing the fork firmly in the breast, let the kaif* 
be sharply passed along the line shown from 1 to 3; then cut 
downward from tl»at line to figure 3; and the wing. It will be 
found, cao be easily withdrawn. The shape of the wing sbould 
be like the accompanj'ing engraving. Let the fork be placed in- 
side the leg, which should be gently forced avray 
from the body of the fowl; and the Joint, being tbus 
discovered, the carver can readily cut througli it, 
and the leg can be served. When the leg ia dia- 
ptaced, it should be of Ihe same shape' as that shoMra 
n the annexed woodcut. The lega and wings oa 
) either side having been taken ofi, the carver should 
draw his knife through the flesh in the direction of 
the line i to 5: by this means the knife can be 
slipped underneath the me iry thought, which, being 
uplifted up and pressed backward, will immediately 
HicKBOBBOfcomeoff. The collar or neck-bonea are the nest to 
'""'" consider; these lie on each side of the merrythought, 

close under the upper part of the wings; and, in order to free 
these from the fowl, ihey rauslalso be raised by the knife at their 
broad end, and turned from Ihe body toward the breastbone, 
until the shorter piece of the bone, tis shown in the cut, breaks 
off. There will now be left only llio breast, with the ribs. The 
breast can be, without difficulty, disengaged from the ribs, by 
cutting through the latter, which will offer little impediment. 
The side-bones are now to be taken ofl ; and to do this, the lower 
end of the back should be turned from Ihe carver, who should 
press the point of the knife through the top of the backbone, 
near tiie center, bringing it down toward the end of the back, 
completely through the Iwne. If the knife is now turned in the 
opposite direction, the joint will be easily separated from the 
vertebrte. Tlie backbone being now uppermost, the fork should 
bo pressed firmly down on it, whilst at the same time the knife 
should be employed in raising up the lower small end of the 
fowl toward the fork, and thus the back will be dislocated about 
its middle. The wings, breast, and merrythought are esteemed 
the prime parts of a fowl, and are usually served to the ladies 
of the company, to whom legs, except as a matter of paramoont 




OABTIKC. 373 

necessity, should not be given. Byron gave it as one reason why 
lie did not like dining with ladies, that they always had the 
•wings of the fowl, which he himself preferred. We heard a gen- 
tleman who, when he might have had a wing, declared his par- 
taility for a leg, saying that he had been obliged to eat legs for so 
long a time, that he had at last come to like them better than the 
other more prized parts. If the fowl is, capon like, very large, 
slices may be carved from its breast in the same manner as from 
a turkey's. 

ROAST FOWL. 

Generally speaking, it is not necessary so completely to cut up 
a fowl as we have described in the preceding paragraphs, unless, 
indeed, a large family-party is assembled, 
and there are a number of "little mouths" 
to be filled, or some other such cir- 
cumstances prevail. A roast fowl is 
carved in the same manner as a boiled boast fowl. 

fowl, by cutting along the line from 1 to 2, and then round 
the leg between it and the wing. The markings and de- 
tached pieces, as shown in the engravings under the heading of 
** Boiled Fowl," supersede the necessity of our lengthily again 
describing the operation. It may be added, that the liver, being 
considered a delicacy, should be divided^ and one half served 
with each wing. In the case of a fowl being stuffed, it will be 
proper to give each guest a portion, unless it be not agreeable to 
some one of the party. 

ROAST GOOSE. 

It would not be fair to say that this dish bodes a great deal of 
happiness to an inexperienced carver, especially if there is a large 
party to serve, and the slices off 
the breast should not suffice to sat- 
isfy the desires and cravings of 
many wholesome appetites, pro- 
duced, may be, by the various 
sports in vogue at Thanksgiving ■o^'' *<>®""- 

and Christmas. The beginning of the task, however, is not in any 
way difficult Evenly cut slices, not too thick or too thin, shouh) 




874 



GABTINa. 






be carved from the breast in the direction of the line from 2 to 8; 

after the first slice has been cut a hole should 
be made in the part called the apron, passing 
it round the line, as indicated by the figures 1, 
1, 1 ; here the stuffing is placed, and some of 
this should be served on each plate, unless it is 
discovered that it is not agreeable to the taste 
of some one guest. If the carver manages 
cleverly, he will be able to cut a very large 
number of fine slices off the breast, and the 
more so if he commences close down by the 
wing, and carves upward toward the ridge of 
the breastbone. As many slices as can be 
Lbo, wing and nbck- taken from the breast being carved, the wings 
BONK OP O0O8B. should bc cut off ; and the same process as de- 
scribed in carving boiled fowl is made use of in this instance, 
only more dexterity and greater force will most probably be re- 
quired ; the shape of the leg, when disengaged from the body of 
the goose, should be like that shown in the accompanying en- 
graving. It will be necessary, perhaps, in taking off the leg, to 
turn the goose on its side, and then, pressing down the small end 
of the leg, the knife should be passed under it fiom the top quite 
down to the joint; the leg being now turned back by the fork, 
the knife must cut through the joint, loosening the thighbone 
from its socket. The merrythought, which in a goose is not so 
large as might be expected, is disengaged in the same way as 
that of a fowl — by passing the knife under it, and pressing it 
backward toward the neck. The neck-bones, of which we give 
a cut, are freed by the same process as those of a fowl ; and the 
same may be said of all the other parts of this bird. The breast 
of a goose is the part most esteemed; all parts, however, are 
good, and full of juicy flavor. 

PIGEON. 

A very straightforward plan is adopted in carving a pigeon; the 

knife is carried sharply in the direction of 
the line as shown from 1 to 2, entirely 
through the bird, cutting it into two pre- 
cisely equal and similar parts. If it is 
noaoH, necessary to make three pieces of it, « 




I 



0AKV1NC^. 



575 



Small wing should be cut off with the leg on either side, thus 
serving two guests; and, by this means, there will be suf^cient 
meat left on the breast to send to the third guest. 

BABBITS. 

In carving a boiled rabbit, let the knife be drawn on each side 
of the backbone, the whole length of the rabbit, as shown by the 
dotted line,3 to 4; thus the rabbit will be 
in three parts in the direction of the line 
from 1 to 2; then let the leg be taken off, 
as shown by the line 5 to 6, and the shoul- 
der, as shown by the line 7 to 8. This, 
in our opinion, is the best plan to carve a rabbit, although 
there are other modes which are preferred by some. 

A roast rabbit is rather differently trussed from one that is 
meant to be boiled ; but the carving is nearly similar, as will be 
seen by the cut. The back should be 
divided into as many pieces as it will 
give, and the legs and shoulders can 
then be disengaged in the same manner 
as those of the boiled animal. 




BOILBD BABBIT. 




BOAST BABBIT. 




BOAST TUBKET. 



BOAST TUBKEY. 

A noble dish is a turkey, roast or boiled. A Christmas din- 
ner, with the middle classes of this country, would scarcely be 
a Christmas dinner without its turkey ; 
and we can hardly imagine an object of 
greater envy than is presented by a re- 
spected portly paterfamilias carving, at 
the season devoted to good cheer and 
genial charity, his own fat turkey, and 
carving it well. The only art consists, as in the cai*ving of a 
goose, in getting from the breast as many fine slices as possible; 
and all must have remarked the very great difference in the large 
number of people whom a good carver will find slices for, and 
the comparatively few that a bad carver will succeed in serving. 
As we have stated in both the carving of a duck and goose, the 
carver should commence cutting slices close to the wing from 2 
to 8, and then proceed upward toward the ridge of the breast- 
bone; this is not the usual plan, but, in practice, will be found 



376 OABVINd. 

the best. The breast is the only part which is looked on as ilna 
in a turkey, the legs being very seldom cut off and eaten at table ; 
they are usually removed to the kitchen, where they are taken 
off, as here marked, to appear only in a form which seems to 
have a special attraction at a bachelor's supper-table — ^we mean 
devilled : served in this way, they are especially liked and relished. 
A boiled turkey is carved in the same manner as when roasted. 




GAME CARVING. 

WELD DUCK. 

As game is almost universally served as a dainty, and not as a 
dish to stand the assault of an altogether fresh appetite, these 
dishes are not usually cut up entirely, but only those parts are 

served of each which are considered 
the best-flavored and the primest. Of 
wild-fowl, the breast alone is consid- 
ered by epicures worth eating, and 
WILD DxroK. slices are cut from this, in the direction 

indicated by the lines, from 1 to 2; if necessary, the leg and wing 
can be taken off by passing the knife from 3 to 4, and by gen- 
erally following the directions described for carving boiled fowl. 

ROAST HABB. 

The *' Grand Carver " of olden times, a functionary of no or- 
dinary dignity, was pleased when he had a hare to manipulate, 
for his skill and grace had an opportunity of display. Diners d 

laRusae may possibly, erewhile, save 
modern gentlemen the necessity of learn- 
ing the art which was in auld lang syne 
one of the necessary accomplishments of 
BOABT HABB. thc youthful squlrc; but, until side- ta- 

bles become universal, or till we see the office of "grand 
carver " once more instituted, it will be well for all to learn how 
to assist at the carving of this dish, which, if not the most ele- 
gant in appearance, is a very general favorite. The hare, hav- 
ing its head to the left, as shown in the woodcut, should be 
first served by cutting slices from each side of the backbone* im 




<f/ 



\ 



SfiHI 



CJlBVING. 



377 



the direction of the lines from 3 to 4. After these prime parte 
are disposed of, the Teg should next bo disengaged by cutting 
round, the line indicated by the figures 5 to C. The shouldew 
'w^ill tlici^be taken off by passing the knife round from 7 to 8. 
Tlie "back of the hare should now be divided by cutting quite 
tlirough its spine, as shown by the line t to 2, taking care to feel 
"writli. the point of the knife for a joint where the back may be 
read.ily penetrated. It is the usual plan not to serve any bone in 
lielping hare; and thus the flesh should be sliced from the legs 
and. placed alone on the plate. In large establisliments, and 
"^rliere racn-cooks are kept, it is often the case that the backbone 
of the hare, especially in old animals, is taken out, and then the 
process of cai-ving is, of course, considerably facilitated. A 
great point to be remembered in connection with carving hare is, 
tliat plenty of gravy should accompany each helping; otherwise 
tills dish, which is naturally dry, will lose half its flavor, and so 
"become a failure. Stuffing is also served with it ; and the ears, 
'w^hich should be nicely crisp, and the brains of the hare, are 
esteemed as delicacies by many connoisseurs. 

PAKTKIDGffllS. 




There are several ways of carving this most familiar game 
bird. The more usual and summary mode is to carry the knife 
sharply along the top of the breastbone 
of the bird, and cut it quite through, 
thus dividing it into two precisely equal 
and similar parts, in the same manner as 
carving a pigeon. Another plan is to cut 
it into three pieces, viz. : by severing a 
small wing and leg on either side from 
the body, by following the line 1 to 3 
in the upper woedcut, thus making 
two helpings, when the breast will re- ^^^ partmdgm, 
main for a third plate. The most elegant manner is that ol 
thrusting back the body from the legs, and then cutting through 
the breast in the direction shown by the line 1 to 2; this plan 
will give four or more small helpings. A little bread-sauc« 
should be served to each guest. 




.31« 



flAwiNa 




the finest flavor. 



• FBAIBIB HEH. 

Groufie may be carved in the way first de* 
scribed in qarving partridge. The backbone 
of the grouse is highly esteemed by many, 
and this part of many game birds is considered 

PHEASANT. 



rixmg the fork in the breast,, let the carver cut slices from it 
hi the direction of the lines from 3 to 1 ; these are the prime 

pieces. If there be more guests to 
satisfy than these slices will serve, 
tlien let the legs and wings be disen- 
gaged in the same manner as de- 
scribed in carving boiled fowl; the 
point where the wing joins the neckbone being carefully found* 
The merrythought will come off in the same way as that of a 
fowl: The most valued parts are the same as those which are 
most considered in a fowl. 




VOAST PHBASANT. 



SNIPE. 

One of these small but delicious birds may be given, whole, 
to a gentleman ; but in helping a lady, it will be better to cut 
Ihem quite through the center, from 1 to 2, completely dividing 
them into e<^ial and like portions, and put only one half on 
the plate. 

HAUNCH OP VBNI80N. 

This fs a grand dish for a knight of the carving-knife to exercise 
his skill upon, and, what will be pleasant for many to know, 

there is but little difficulty 
in the j)erformance. An 
incision being made coni- 
pletely down to the bone, 
in the direction of the line 
^ HAUNCH OF vKHisoN. 1 to 2, thc gravy will then 

i^.^ble easily to flow; when slices, not too thick, should be cut 
alone the haunch, as indicated bv the line 4 to 8 ; that end of the 





Joint marked 3 having been "tl^med toward the calmer, so that 
bfer 'jta^y' ' hnvn : -^ more , oomplet© <jommaiid oyer ^he. Joint. . Al- 
though some epicures affect to helieve t|hat, some.piatr^.Qf tl^ 
haunch are supenor to others, yet we doubt if there is any dif 
ference between the slices' cut above and below the line. It 
fdK)ttld'b6 'btmie hk mind-toseFV^ ^ach ^est^itha /porttt)!i7of 
fat; and the most expeditious carver be the h^K^itsvjpTi ^^SBfif 
mutton, venison soon begins to chill, when it loses much of it£ 
charm. 

WOODCOCK. 

This bird, like a partridge, may be carved by cutting it exactly 
into two like portipns, or made into three helpings, as described 
in carving partridge. The backbone is considered a tit-bit of a 
woodcock, and by many the thigh is also 
thought a great delicacy. This bird is served 
in the manner advised by Brillat Savarin in 
connection with the pheasant, viz. : on toast 
vv^hich has received its drippings while toast- woodcock 

ing; and a piece of this toast should invariably accompany each 
plate. 

Landrail, being trussed like Snipe, with the exception of its 
being drawn, may be carved in the same manner. (See Snipe.) 

Ortolans are usually helped whole, but may be divided for 
ladies. (See Snipe. ) 

PTABMIGAN. 

Ptarmigan, being of much the same size and trussed in the same 
manner, as the red-bird, may be carved in the same manner de- 
scribed in Partridge and Grouse Carving. 

QUAILS. 

Quails, being trussed and served like "Woodcock, may be simi- 
larly carved. 

PLOVERS. 

Plovers may be carved like Quails or Woodcock, being trussed 
and served in the same way as those birds. 



3S0 oAXTDsia. 



TSAL. 



Teal, being of the same character as Widgeon and Wild Dade, 
may be treated, in carving, in the same style. 



WIDGKOK. 



Widgeon may be caryed in the same way as described in re- 
gard to WUd Duck. 



INDEX. 



Page. 

«»N1RAL PRINCIPLES OP 
COOKING. 

HOUSBEEEPINa. 

Cake Box, 12 

Children, label them, 12 
Chamber, Mantel and Toilet 

Covers, 12 

Busters, 10 

Fire, to put out, 18 

Household management, d 

Household memoranda, 9 

Kitchen Fumidiing, 5 

Kitchen Holders, 10 

Looking Glasses, to clean, 12 

Mattre^es, 14 

Mending, 10 

Night Clothes, is 

Paper and String, lo 

Pay as you go, ig 

Piece Bags, 10 

Packing away clothes, H 

Rainy Days, H 

Scorch, to take out, 12 

Sheets, 28 

Table, To clean a 13 

Wash Rags, 12 

HINTS ON ECONOMY. 

Apples, to save specked, 14 

Buckwheat Cakes, 16 

Cheap Dishes, 15 

Children eating between meals, 17 

Children eating gravy, 15 



Corners and holes. 
Examine Safes, Refrigerators, 

&c.. 
Family Worship, 
Morning Dresses, 
Outside Garments, 
Pickle and Preserve Jars, 
Provide for Monday, 
Purchase things in season, 
Rise early, 
Saturday Night, 
Servants, fewer the better. 
Stew for family dinner. 
Sweeping, preparing for. 
Table, serve neatly. 
Tea-leaves on carpets, 

THE USE OP FUEL. 

Grate Fires, 
Kitchen Ranges, 
Parlor Heaters, 
Spring Fuel, 



SOUPS. 

Asparagus Soup, with green 

peas. 
Artichoke Soup, 
Barley Soup. 
Brown Gravy Soup, 
Bread Soup, 
Baked Soup, 
Broth, Scotch Mutton 
Broth for an Invalid, 
Carrot Soup, 
Common Soup, 



1( 

16 

16 

16 

14 

14 

14 

14 

16 

16 

16 

16 

16 

17 

16 



18 
18 
19 
19 



27 
27 
29 
26 
81 
82 
88 



382 



IKDBX. 



Coiioor«l Soup, 25 

Calfs Head Soup, brown, 26 

Chicken Soup, 26 

Colandered Soup, 20 

English Pea Soup, 28 
Fish Soups, • 2d 

French Soup, 80 

Gumbo, 24 

Green Pea Soup, 28 

Gourd Soup, 80 

German Pancake Soup, 82 

Hotch Potch, 88 

Inexpensire, 82 

Jenny Lind*8 Soup, 81 

Jardiniere Soup, 82 

Mook Turtie Soup, 26 

Onion Soup, with milk, 80 

Onion Soup, with water, 81 

Oyster Soup, 27 

Oyster Mouth Soup, 27 

Parsnip Soup, 29 

Pea Soup, without meat, 28 

Pea Soup, green, 28 

Pea Soup, English, 29 

Pumpkin Soup, 80 

Rabbit Soup, 24 

Stock from Bones, 21 

Stock without Meat, 21 

Stock, Bian 21 

Stock, Cowheel 21 
Stock, four quarts of Brown 22 

Stock, fbur quarts of White 22 
Soup or Stock from one pound 

of beef, 28 

Sorrel Soup, without meat, 28 

Spring Soup, 24 

Sheepshead Soup, 25 

Soup, Jardiniere 82 

Soup, inexpensiye, 82 

Soup for Invalids, 24 

Tomato Soup, 81 

Vermicelli Soup, 81 

iV^inter Soup, 23 

If hite Soup, 25 



MBAT& 



A-l«-mode Beef, 
]l0rfBaUi^ 



85 

89 



Beef Croquettes, 39 

Boiled Beef, 81 
Brisket of Beef for Christmas, 

cured 84 

9r«ihe^'Qpef steaks, 85 

Braised Beef, 36 

Brisket of Beef stu&d, 86 

Boiled Leg of Mutton, i 1 

Broiled Mutton Chops, i2 

Broiled Cold Mutton, 48 

Breast of Veal, stuffed, 47 

Breast of Veal, 8t6ved, ; .47 

Blanquette of Veal, 49 

Beefeteak, mock, ' 49 
Boston Pork and Apple pie, 62 

Bacon Omelet, 63 

Bacon £gg-c*p, 58 

Boiled Ham, 54 

Broiled Ham, 54 
Beef Tea, - 298 

Cured Beef to eat cold, 86 

Cold rainced Beef, 40 

Cold Mutton broiled, 48 

Croquettes, mutton, 44 

Cutlets, veal, 48 

Cheese, veal, 51 

Cutlets, pork, 52 

Curing Ham8> 53 

Dried Beef oooked, 40 

English pork or raised pie, 52 

£gg-cap, bacon, 53 

Fillets of beef, 87 
Fillets of Beef with Anchovy, 38 
FUlets of Beef with Forcemeat^ 88 

Fried Mutton Chops, 43 

Fritters, veal, 4^ 

Hashed Beef, 40 

Hamburgh Pickle for Beef, 89 

Hunter's Bee^ 88 

Hung Beef, 89 

Hashed Mutton, 44 
Hashed mutton with moshrooBv 45 

Hash, the Epicure's 46 

Hams, to cure, 85 

Ham, boiled, 54 

Ham, sugared, 54 

Ham, potted, 54 

H»m, broiled, 54 

Ham and tongue totit, M 



I2f DBX 



383 



Pageu 

/oiat of Mutton xoaited, 42 

Keeping Beef, 41 

Knuckle of veal, 48 

Knuckle of Veal with rioe, 48 

Leg of Mutton in four meals, 41 

I^eg of Mutton, broiled, 41 

Leg of Mutton, roasted, 41 

Leg of Mutton with Oysters, 42 

Loin of Veal, 48 

Leonis Favorite dish, 49 

Loaves, Westphalia 54 

Mock Duck, 86 

Meat Pie for Lunoh, 89 

Minced Beef, cold, 40 

Mutton chops broiled, 42 

Mutton chops fried, 48 

Mutton chops with oucumbers, 48 

Mutton chops, savory, 48 

Mutton broiled, oold, 43 

Mutton Pudding, 43 

Mutton croquettes, 44 

Mutton, hashed, 44 

Minced uncooked Mutton, 44 
Mutt<^ hashed with 

Mushrooms, 46 

Minced Mutton, 46 
Minced Mutton with 

Cucumbers, 45 

Minced Veal with maooaroni, 48 

Mock Beefisteak, 49 

Minced Veal 50 

Ox cheek stuffed and baked, 86 

Omelette, veal, 50 

Olives, veal, 50 

Pudding, mutton 48 

Pig, roast, 41 

Pork, roast, 41 

Pork, spare rib of 62 

Pork cutlets, 51 

Pork and Apple pie, Boston 61 

Pork pie, English or rais^ 52 

Pork and potato pie, 52 

Poik relish, 63 

Potted Ham, 54 

Quarter of lamb, roasted, 42 
Quarter of lamb as a savory 

dish, 46 

Roast kg of mutton, 41 

Boast shoulder of lamb, 42 



Boast quarter cf lamb, 42 

Roast joint of mutton, 42 

Boast fillet of veal, 47 

Boast pig, 61 

Boast pork, 51 

Stewed beef, 84 

Spiced beef, 87 

Shoulder of lamb, roasted, 42 

Savory mutton chops, 48 

Stew, Western 48 

Shoulder of veal, 46 

Stewed loin of veal, 46 

Stewed breast of veal, 47 

Spare rib of pork, 61 

Sugared ham, * 54 

Tough beef, 41 

Veal, shoulder of 46 

Veal, stewed loin of 46 

Veal, breast of stuffed 47 

Veal, breast of stewed 47 

Veal, roast fillet of 47 

Veal, loin of 48 

Veal, knuckle of 48 

Veal outlets, 48 
Veal minced with maooftronl, 48 

Veal fritters, 49 

Veal, blanquette of 49 

Veal rolls, 49 

Veal, minced, 60 

Veal omelette, 60 

Veal olives, 60 

Veal cheese, 61 

Westphalia loaves, 64 

8BG0NDABT MSATS. 

Baked Irish Stew, 66 

Boiled Tongue, 67 
Balls, Grandmother's 

Breakfast, 58 

Brain Cake, 61 

Brawn, 62 

Cold Meats, to oook, 69 

Cowheel, . 59 

Cowheel fried, 60 

Calf's Head Cake, 60 

Calf *s Head Hash, 61 

Dalraa, Turkish 69 

Fried Tripe, 62 



384 



IVDBZ 



OrandmoUMr't Bretklkat 

Balls, 58 

Hash, SaTory Winter 59 

Hash, Calf*! Head 61 

Head and Hinge, Lamb's 61 

Iiiah Stew, 56 

Lamb*s H^ and Hin^, 61 

Meat Omnium, 57 

Pie, Tale Boat, 56 

Risiblee, 58 

Stew, Irish 56 

Stew, baked Irish 57 

Sweet Breads, 57 

Sausage meat and Sausages, 58 

Savory winter hash, 59 

Sheep's Trotters, 60 
Sweetbread, Liyer, and 

Heart, 60 

Stewed Tripe, 62 

Tongue, boiled 57 

Turkish ,Dalma, 59 

Toad-in-tbe-hole, 59 

Trotters, Sheep's 60 

Tripe, 62 

Tripe Fried, 62 

Tale Boat Pie, 56 

VISE. 

BoUed Fish, 64 

Boiled White fish, 65 

Broiled White fish, 65 

Boiled Salmon, 65 

Broiled Salmon, 66 

Broiled Shad, 67 

Baked Shad, 67 

Boiled Bass, Rock fish, eto. 68 
Baked Cod, Black fish. Haddock, 

&o., 69 

Boiled Whitings, 69 
Codfish and potatoes *< picked 

up," 68 
God, BUickfiffh, Haddock, &o., 

baked, 69 

Cod, Haddock, etc., fried, ^ 70 

Cod or Salmon cutlets, 70 

Chowder, Fish, 72 

Oikes, Fish, 73 

Cod, 8aM stewed, 73 



Cape Cod Chowder, 

Cod Fish and Potatoea, 

Fried Fish, 

Fried Shad, 

Fried Mackerel, 

Fish Roes, in oases. 

Fricasseed small fish. 

Fry, Trenton Falls, 

Fiah and Maocaroni, 

Fried Smelts, 

Fresh Herrings, 

Fish, to dress a second time. 

Fish Pudding, 

Fish Cakes, 

Haddock baked and fried. 

Herrings, fresh, 

Eippeml Salmon, 

MacKerel, fried. 

Mackerel, soused, 

Macoaroni, Fish and 

Pudding, Fish, 

Roes, fij^ incases, 

Salmon, boiled, 

Salmon, broiled, 

Salmon and Salad, 

Salmon, to kipper, 

Salmon, pickled. 

Shad,' broiled 

Shad, fried 

Shad, baked 

Shad maitre d' hotel. 

Soused Mackearel, 

Souchy or Sooc^ee, water 

Salmon Cutlets, or Cod 

Small fish fricasseed. 

Smelts, fried 

Second time. To dress fish 

Salt Cod, stewed 

Salt Cod and Potatoee* 

Trenton Falls Fry, 

White fish broiled. 

White fish boiled. 

Whitings boiled. 

Water Souchy or Soodjee, 



7« 

68 

64 

67 

68 

70 

70 

70 

71 

71 

71 

72 

72 

78 

69 

71 

t6 

68 

68 

71 

72 

70 

66 

66 

66 

66 

66 

67 

67 

67 

67 

68 

69 

70 

70 

71 

72 

78 

78 

70 

65 

65 

69 

69 



OTSTERS, SHELLFISH, 
BELS, BTO. 

Boiled Eels, 79 



Boiled Lobster, 
Balls, Lobster 
Collared Eels, 
Crabs and Crayish, 
Crab and Lobster Catlets, 
Eels Fried, 
Eels Spatohed, 
Eels Collared, 
Eels Stewed, 
Eels Boiled, 
Eel pie, 
Fried OjBten, 
Fried Eels, 
Loaves Oyster 
Lobsters, 
Lobster, to boil 
Lobster Salad, 
Lobster Sanoe, 
Lobster and Crab Cutlets, 
Lobster Balls, 
Lobster Curry, 
Maccaroni, Oysters sad 
Muscles, stewed 
Oyster Etiquette, 
Oysters Stewed, 
Oysters Scalloped, 
Oysters Fried, 
Oyster Pies, 
T)yster Patties, 
Oyster Loaves, 
Oysters and llfsooaroai, 
Oysters for Luaeb, 
Oysters RoUsd, 
Pie, Oyster 
Patties, Oysters 
Pickled Oysters, 
Pie, F«l 

Stewed Oysters, 
Scalloped Oysters, 
Stewed Muscles, 
Spatohed Eels 
Stewed Eels, 



MUSHBOOMS. 



Loaves, 

Powder, 

Pickled, 



IITDBX, 


dSi 


ftfB^] 




nt^ 


79 


Stewed, 


88 


80 


Toast, 


88 


78 


To know them. 


82 


80 






80 
78 


FOWLS AND eAMl. 




1 V 

78 


Alice Cary's Minced CUokeB, 


, 91 


78 


Boiled Fowl, 


86 


79 


Broiled Fowl, 


86 


79 


Boiled €kx>se. 


86 


79 


Broiled Partridge 


92 


76 


Birds, Small 


94 


78 


Chicken Fricassee, 


86 


76 


Chicken Stewed, 


88 


79 


Cold Chicken Fried, 


88 


79 


Chicken, vol-au-Tent of, 


88 


80 


Chicken with Cheese, 


89 


80 


Chicken Puffii, 


89 


80 


Chicken Loaf, 


89 


80 


Chicken Pot Pie, 


89 


81 


Chicken Pie, 


89 


77 


Chicken Pie, Thanksgiving, 


90 


78 


Chicken Pie, Aunt Abby's 


90 


76 


Chickens, Prairie, 


91 


76 


Chickens Prairie, Roast and 




76 


Stewed, 


91 


76 


Chicken, Minced, Alice Caiy*! 


1 91 


76 


Crab, Imitation, 


98 


76 


Croquettes of Fowl, 


98 


76 


Duck, roast 


86 


77 


Duck with Green Peas, 


87 


77 


Duck, New York Mock 


87 


77 


Devilled Turkey Legs, 


91 


76 


Fricassee, Chicken 


86 


76 


Fried cold Chicken, 


88 


77 


Forcemeat for Roast Tnikey, 




79 


Veal, Ac 


94 


76 


Goose boiled. 


86 


76 


Goose, Roast 


87 


78 


Game Patties, 


98 


78 


Grouse, Roast 


94 


79 


Hsshed Fowl, 


92 




Hare or Rabbit, St«wed 


96 




Imitation Crab, 


98 




Pot pie Chicken, 


89 


82 


Pie, Chicken, 


89 


88 


Prairie Chickens, Roast tad 




82 


Stewed 


91 


82 


Partridge, Broiled 


Of 



386 



INDBX. 



Fiitridge ehOid, 

Partridge Pie, 

Pigeon Pie, 

Patties, Qame 

Roaet lurkey, 

Roast Duck, 

Roast Fowl, 

Roast Gooee, 

Roast Prairie GhiokeD, 

Roast Grouse, 

Rabbit Stewed, 

Rabbit in Slices, 

Roast Rabbit, 

Stewed Turk^ with Celery 

Stewed Chicken, 

Stewed Prairie Chicken, 

Small Birds, 

Stewed Hare or Rabbit, 

Tnrkey, Roast 

Turkej, Stewed with Celery 

Thanksgiving Chicken Pie, 

Turkey's Legs, Deyilled 

Vol-au-vent of Chicken, 

Venison Pasty, 

Venison Pofis, 

Venison Steak, 

MBAT 8AU0B8 

Aspftrwiis Sanoe, 
Bread Sauce, 
Brown Onion Saiioa» 
Batter, French 
Ik'rkshire Sauce, 
; 'Utter, Drawn 
iSrowning for SftQoei, 
Caper Sauce, 
Cranberry Sanoe, 
Cdery Sauce, 
Catsup, Tomato 
Catsup, MushrooK 
Catsup, Walnut 
Drawn Butter, 
Egg Sauce, 
French Battv, 
Horseradish Sinioe, 
Biint Sauce, 
Mild Mustard, 
Hade Dishes, sauce ftxr 



92 

92 

98 

98 

85 

86 

86 

87 

91 

94 

96 

96 

96 

87 

88 

91 

94 

95 

85 

87 

90 

91 

88 

96 

96 

95 



100 

97 

98 
101 
101 
108 
108 

98 

99 
100 
104 
108 
104 
108 

98 
101 

991 
100 
101 
101 



Mushroom Catsup, 

Oyster Sauce, 

Onion Sauce, brown 

Rice Sauce, 

Sauce for made dishes. 

Sauce for boiled Turkey cr 

Capon, 
Sauce for roast Chicken, 
Sauce for boiled Fish, 
Sauce, Fish to keep a year 
Sauce for Venison, 
Savoe for roast Beef, 
Tomato Sauce, 
Turkey's Egg Sauce, 
Tomato Catsup, 
Vinegar Plant, 
Vinegar, eai^ cider 
Vinegar of Maijoram* 
Vinegar for Souse, 
Vinegar for Soused Fiah, 
Vinegar, cIoyo 
Vinegar, tarragon 
Vinegar, savory 
Vinegar, celeiy 
Vinegar, green mint 
Vinegar, raspberry 
Vinegar, black currant 
Vinegar, Chili 
White Sauce, 
Walnut Catsup, . 



RBLI8HB8. 

Anohovy cheese. 
Custard, savory 
Cheese, anchovy 
Cheese, omelet * 
Cheese, fondu 
Cheese, potted 
Cheese, pot 
Entrement, a Qermaa 
Fondu, straw 
Maccaroni, 
Maccaroni, timbaU «f 
Pot Cheese, 
Relish, a ooli 
Sandwiches, 

Sandwiches, dresdng- for 
Tomato Toast, 



106 

98 

98 

97 

101 

101 
102 
102 
102 
108 
108 

98 
100 
104 
104 
105 
106 
106 
106 
105 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 
106 

97 
101 



109 
108 
109 
109 
109 

no 

110 
107 

no 
no 
ni 
no 

107 
IW 
107 
108 



t^ pMt . 



^fti 



Page. I 



Pagtt 



Vomflto Omelet, 


108 


Poet's salad. 


12:j 


Iteast, savory 


108 


Spring Salads, 


12p 


Toasted Gheeee, 


108 


Salad for Cold Lamb, 


121 






Suffolk Salad, 


122 


PIOKLBa 




Tomato Salad, 


122 






Tomato Soy, 


128 


Aipangiu. 


118 






Bsets, 


118 


BGCM. 




Beansi FrenfiiL 


114 






Barberries, 


117 


Asparagus and Bggs, 


. i27 


Barberries, sweet 


117 


Apples and Eggs, 


127 


Blaokberriea, 


118 


Boiled, 


126 


Cucumbers, 


112 


Buttered, 


126 


Gabbage, 


114 


Cheese and Eggs, 


127 


Gabbage with sweet piekK 


116 


Pried with Ham, 


126 


OAbbage, red 


116 


Fancy Omelet, 


127 


Cucumber, 


112 


Herring and Eggs, 
Mushrooms and Eggs, 


127 


Green tomatoes, 


118 


127 


Green pickle. 


118 


Omelet, 


126 


Gherkins, 


116 


Omelet, Pu£f 


126 


Lemon, 


116 


Omelet with Eidaeyi» 


126 


Mustard^ 


118 


Omelet with Herbs^ 


126 


Mangoes, 


116 


Poached, 


126 


Mushrooms, 


118 


Pickled Eggs, 


128 


Onions, 


114 


Preserve Eggs, to 


128 


Onions, Portugal 


114 


Scrambled, 


126 


Oysters, 


77 






PiocalilU, 


116 


VBGETABLS& 




Roots, 


117 


• 




Salmon, 


69 


Artichokes, Jerusalem, 


188 


Tomatoes, 


118 


Artichoke Fraeis, 


188 


Tomatoes, green 


118 


Asparagus, 


186 


Walnuts, 


118 


Beans, French 


186 






Beets, Young BoUed 


186 


SALADS. 




Beans, Lima, 


187 




• 


Beans, Pork and 


187 


Chicken, 


120 


Broccoli, 


188 


Carrot, 


120 


Corn, Green, 


181 


Chow-chow, 


128 


Corn, green on the Ear, 


1^2 


Cabbage and Vinegar, 


128 


Com Oysters, 


182 


CoH Shiw, 


128 


Cucumbers, Stewed, 


188 


Chow-chow Pickle, 


128 


Carrots, Boiled, 


187 


Chow-chow, a handy 


124 


Carrots with Parsley, 


187 


Ba&t India Salad, 


121 


Cabbage, BoUed, 


188 


Fish, 


121 


Cabbage, Buttered 


U6 


Hotch Potoh; 


122 


Cabbage Relish, 


188 


Lobster, 


121 


Cabbage red, Beliah, 


188 


Iiettnoe, 


122 


Cabbage, red. Stewed. 


188 


PeUto, 


122 


Cabbage, French 


m 



3S% 



IVDBZ. 



Oauliilowen, 

Ganliilower, Barebit, 

Dandelions, 

Bgg Plant, 

Oreen Corn, 

Greens, Sprinc 

Onions, Boiled 

Onions, Portugal, Stowed 

Onions, Poring Fried 

Odonfrom Boiling 

Vegetables, 
Potatoes, Boiled . 
Potatoes, Mashed 
PoUtoes, Fried 
Potato Shayings, 
Potatoes, Stewed 
Potatoes, Baked 
Pototo Pie, 
Potato Cakes, 
Potato Padding, 
Potatoes a-la-oreme, 
Potatoes Scalloped, 
Peas, Gk«en 
Parsnips, fricasseed 
Parsnips, Fried 
Parsnips, Boiled 
Saocotash, 
Sqnash Frittori» 
Squash, Boiled 
SeaCale, 

Balsiiy, or Vegetable Qjitear 
Spinaoh, 
Tornips, Mashed 
Tomatoes, Stewed 
Vegetables to boil green, 
/egetable Marrows, 
Vegetable Biarrow Tart, 



84 

40 
89 
84 
81 
82 
86 
86 
86 

282 
29 
29 
29 
80 
80 
80 
80 
80 
81 
81 
81 
86 
86 
86 
86 
82 
82 
88 
88 
88 
89 
84 
85 
81 
89 
89 



PA8TBT, (IKTBODUOTOBT.) 



Paddinss and Pies, 
Potato Pie Cmst, 
Puff Paste, 

Pies, Cmst ibr Baised 
Pies, Meat Snet, Crust ibr 



PIBS. 



Apple oustaid, 



141 
•148 
143 
144 
144 



146 



Apple, 
Apple, 
Applet English 
Apple, Dried 
Apple, mook 
Apple, inyalid 
Custard, . 
Costard, apple 



li6 

146 
147 
149 
14ft 
299 
146 
146 



Cherry, Plum, or Goosebeny. 147 

Coooanut, 148 

Com Meal, 149 

Fruit, 147 

Gk)oseberr7, eto^ 147 

Grape, 148 

Hucklebeny, 147 

Lemon, 146 
Lemon cream, EiUj Bfaj's, 146 

Mince, 144 

Mince, English 144 

Mince, Mrs. D's. 145 

Mock apple pie, 149 
Plum, Cherrj, or Gooiebeny, 147 

Pumpkin, 148 

Plum, dried 149 

Rhubarb, 148 

Squash, 145 

PUDDINGS. 

Apple, English, 160 

Apples, 151 

Arrowroot, 156 

Apple Linnie*s, 156 

Apple and Sago, 166 

Apple and Bice, 158 

Apple Dumplings, Boiled 166 

Apple Dumplings, Baked 166 

Apple Fritters, 166 

Buffiilo, 150 

Bird's Nest, 158 

Bread, Uttle Birthday, 154 

Batter, Little, 155 

Baden, 158 

Bread, 162 

Bread and Fmit, Mrs. Stow«*s 162 

Citron, 154 

Cherry, 156 

Cornstarch, Ibe, 159 

Chester, liS 



Oon, 


64 


C»D, N>Dtiidnt 


M 


66 


Du>d7. 


68 


DeMwn'B Apple IndiMi 


61 


EngiL Sh. 


66 

54 


EibibitiM. 


91 


Editor** FftToriU. 


6S 


Fr^i^ 


58 


Fie. 


B8 


Froit, HiDDla'i 


54 


Fritteri, Apple 


66 




55 




61 


Howitfi, Mra. 


66 


IndUo Fruit, 


52 


[Ddian Huoklebefty. 


66 


[ndiu, B>ked 


67 


iMsComtHoh 


69 


IM, 


«4 


Indiu. Bolltd 


66 


Indlu, PUbi 


66 


blT^Clip, 


BOO 


LonoD, 


5G 




67 


Miontalftih.'^' 


54 


NnneiT. 


6S 


?:».•. 


56 
61 


Plain, Ant Hkir'i 


66 


Plam, Boiled Tuikee 


69 


Plan. ISn. CrOj't OuUtatM 


60 


PIoni,Brtrt 


60 


PmiM or Dunioa, 


60 


Plam, Enf lidi 


60 


Plam ,;Sf anew. 


61 


Plam. SmiOl and Ughl 


64 


Poet% ^^ 


66 


P«tor-i, 


66 


Riot. BdM 


67 


Koe, 


57 


Bioe.Frra^ 


61 
68 


Bioe Apple ud 


6» 


BiMFku. 


68 


B>r.tog», 


52 


BMW, 


52 


BTiU.. 


156 



Sigo, 
Suet, 
Sally Lusn, 

Tapiooa, Cap, Invalid 

Viotoria, 
WMhington, 

FUDDINO BAUOn. 

Exempt, 

Hard, 

Lemon Briody. 

Maple Sogar, 

Boee Hip, 

Sweet Liquid. 

Wine. 



Apple Charlotte. 
Apple CftBtard, 
Apple Sonffle, 
Almond Blano mange, 
ArTDwroot BUno mange. 



Apple Pique. 
Apple loe, 
Bluio Muige, J 



(ItO 



ivnas 



Blano Mange, Taplooa 
Blano Mange, Arrrowroot 
Blano Mange, Rioe Ffmir 
Diiuio Mange, Whole Rioe 
Qlano Mang9«.0ffOu«d Rioe 
Barlej Soger ibr Chfldren, 
Oream PofGl, 
Costard, 
Costard, BoiM 
Charlotte, Apple 
Chocolate Kines, 
Ohooolate Cream Costard^ 
Costard, Apple 
Costard, Raspbeny 
Costard, Rioe 
Oream, Orange 
C&ream, Lemon 
Cream, Vanilla 
Cream, Italian 
Cream, Tea 
Cream, Rook 
Charlotte Russe, 
4>eam, Apple 
Compote of Apples, 
Cream, Nina*s Apple 
Compote of Peaohea, 
Compote of 'Rhubarb, 
Compote of Red Corrants, 
Compote of Qreen Corrants, 
Compote of Oreen Goosebeiv- 

ries, 
Aierry Cheese, 
Chestnots, a Dessert of 
Candy, Molasses 
Chocolate Drops, 
Dessert, a nice and olieap . 
Dessert, Ffoit Ibr 
Dessert of Chesbrnta, 
Bogen^ Rosse, 
Froit Tarts, 

Floating Island of Apples, 
Fritters, Pineapple 
Frittei^B, Apple 
Frittera, Orange 
Froit for Dessert, 
Froits, Sammer Mixed 
Ginger Apples, 
tkMMebeny or Apple Trifle, 



176 
176 
177 
177 
177 
Idl 
170 
171 
171 
171 
171 
172 
172 
172 
172 
I7a 
174 
174 
174 
174 
17( 
176 
180 

m\ 

181 
184 
184 
184 
184 



184 
184 
183 
190 
191 
186 
187 
18$ 
176 
176 
181 
186 
176 
186 
187 
188 
180 
188 



Qreen Oooeeberriea, 

of 
Qooseberry Fool« 
Italian Cream, 
Icing for T«r(B» 
Ice Cream, Coontry 
be Cream, Strawbeny 
lee Apple, 
Hisses, Chocolate 
Iiemon Sponge, 
Iiemon Cream, 
Ijoyo Apples, 
Iioppered Milk, 
Iiemon Pastes t^keep 
iiemon Flavor, 
Iiemon or Orange Beet, 

Tinotore of 
Lemon Drops,, , 
Meringoes, 

Meringoe, Looy Stone's bread 
Mashed Tarts, 
Marmalade, Apple , 
Meringoes, Apple 
Mother*s Sorpnse, 
Milk, Loppered 
IjEolasses Caud^ . 
Orange Cream, 
Orange Fritten, 
Pasties, 
Poib, Cream 
Hppins, Stenid 
Pears, Baked 
Peaxn, Sealded 
Peaches, Compote of 
Pineapple Fritten, 
Prones, Stewed , 
Preserve, Good ComnMHi 
i)oinoes'ft>r the 'f^l^ 
Rice Costard, 
Raspberry Costud, 
Book Cream, 
Rice Floor Blano Mange, 
Rice, Whole BlanaMangey 
Rioe, Groond, Blan^Muige 
RedRobbin, ; 
Rhobarb Tart, 
Rhobarb, Compote of 
Rhobarb, 



184 

186 

174 

168 

189 

100 

190 

171 

172 

174 

177 

186 

189 

189 

189 
191 
175 

176 
.178 
179 
178 
181 
186 
190 
178 
185 
170 
170 
160 
182 
182 
184 
186 
185 
185 
188 
172 
172 
175 
WT 
177 
177 
177 
188 
183 

m 





XVDSX. 


»l 




rug., 




Hge. 


Btoffle, StmwtMRy or Applo 


178 


Currant, 


im 


Sonifle* Sweet 


178 


Cream, 


189 


Booflle, Omelet 


178 


Comets a Creme, 


200 


Strawbemee, 


186 


Cider, 


200 


Strawberry Shortoake, 


187 


Ccmnecticut Coflbs, 


SM 


Sugar Ta%, 


190 


Crullers, 


201 


Synif ft>r Oandiei, 


191 


Cup, 


202 


Sugar Barl^, fiur ChildroB 


191 


Cup Cake, Molasses 


202 


Ilea, Cream 


174 


Cake without eggs. 


202 


Tapioca Blanc Ifange, 


176 


Christmas, Ibr good dhildren 


208 


l^rts, Mashed 


178 


Cookies, 


206 


T^rts, Fruit 


178 


Cheese Cakes, Bice 


207 


Tart, Apple 


178 


Cheese Cakes, English 


207 


Trifle, 


188 


Cheese Cakes, Apple 


207 


Trifle, Oooeebenj or Applo 


188 


Cheese Cakes, Bread 


207 


Tart, Bhubarb 


188 


Cheess Cakes, Coooanut 


208 


TartB, Icing fl>r 


188 


Cheese Cakes, Almond 


208 


Tomatoes, 


188 


Cocoanut, 


211 


Tincture of Lemon or Orange 




Doughnuts, 


206 


Peel, 


189 


Fruit, a fine 


194 


TUI^, Sugar 
Vanilla (Seam, 


190 


Fruit, Pork 


194 


174 


Fried, without sffn or mflk 


201 






Fried, 


201 


8WBBT OAKBS. 




Glen Vis, 


200 






Ginger Pound with fruit* 


201 


Almond Sponge, 


192 


Ginger Snaps, 


206 


Apple, 
Almond, flne 


197 


Ginger Nulp, 


206 


197 


Gingerbread, Snongt 
Gingerbread, Hard times 


206 


Apple cheese cakes. 
Almond cheese cakes, 


207 


206 


208 


Ginger Biscuits, 


209 


Apple biscuit. 
Bride, 


209 


Graham Fig Biscuits, 


210 


194 


Hickory-nut, New Tsars 


196 


Bread, Mrs. Bristol's 


198 


Huddeberry, 


196 


Birthday, 


208 


Hard times, mnlssssi 


202 


Buns, 


206 


Independence, 


195 


Bread cheese cakes. 


207 


Idng, Almond 


194 


Biscuits. New Tears' 


208 


Icing, Sugar 


196 


Biscuits, Cream 


208 


Icing, Chooolats 


211 


Biscuits, Apple 


209 


Icing, 


21 i 


Biscuits, Orange 


209 


Jenny's 


202 


Biscuits, Moss 


209 


Jumbles, 


204 


Bisovits, Ginger 


209 


Loaf, 


176 


Biscuits, Judge's 


210 


Lemon, 


197 


Biscuits, King's 


210 


Molasses Cup, 


202 


Biscuits, Graham Fig 


210 


Molasses, Hard times 


202 


Christmas, a magnifloent. 


198 


Mary*8 Tea, 


208 


Oiristmas, 


198 


Macaroons, 


210 


Connecticut Election, 


196 


New Year's Hiokory-ant» 


196 


ftDmmenoement, New HaTiB 


196 


New Tears, 


107 



$n 



IVDSX. 



Hew Ymt*! INMilt, 

OrftDge BiMiiit» 

Ponnd, 

Pork, Fniit 

Plum, 

Pionio, 

«• Portage Falli,'* 

PoTor^, 

PortiHpJ* 

PurtjPnfiit 

Book, 

Bioe GhoMO CMdm» 

Bpongo, 

Sponge, Almond 

Sponge, Bioe floor. 

Sponge, Bfnk V'l. 

Snow, 

Small Seed, 

Soath Oaioliiift, 

SooietT, 

SalljlAum, 

Shrewabniy, 

Tea diah, a nioe 

T8a,Mai7'i 

Wanaw Wldte, 

Wonden, 



209 

92 

94 

96 

98 

98 

98 

200 

206 

204 

206 

92 

92 

98 

98 

98 

99 

200 

208 

208 

204 

198 

208 

200 

204 



PBBSaBVBD VBUIT8 AND 
SWBETMBAT8. 

Apple Sweetmeati, 220 
Apple Preaerre, 220 
Apple Batter, 220 
Apples, to PreTent Waate In 221 
Artichokes, Preaerred, 222 
Blaokberrlea, 212 
Brandy Oagea, 216 
Canning Fruit, 212 
Currant and Baapborvy Sweet- 
meat, 214 
Cherry Jam, 214 
Currant Black, Jam 216 
Cherries, Preaerred 216 
Cherries, Fiokled 216 
Crab applea, Preaerred 216 
Curranta, Preaerred 217 
Citron, Preserved 219 
Cucumbers, Pre s e r ved 221 
OndM Orange Piri Bings 222 



Citron P^reparing, ftr Oaka 
Figs, Green Preaerved 
Oreen Grape Jam, 
Green Figs Preserredt 
Jam, Strawberry 
Jam, Baapberry 
Jam, Cherry 
Jam, Green Grape 
Jam, Plum 
Jam, Pineapple 
Jam, Black Currant 
Oranges, Preserred 
Plum Jam, 
Pineapple Jam, 
Pineapple Marmalade, 
Pineapples Preserved, 
Plums or Damsons Pi ese ined 
Pickling Pears and Peaches, 
Pickling Damson Plums, 
Peaches Dried with Sugar, 
Plums and Small Fruits Dried, 
Pippins, Preserved 
Pumpkin, Fried 
Quinces, Preserved 
Baspbeny Jam, 
Baspberries, Preserved 
Bhubarb, P r eser ved 
Strawbeny Jam, 
Strawberriea in Cans, 
Strawberries, Dried 
Tomato Figs, 
Tomato Sweetmeats, 
Vegetable Marrow, Plreaervad 



228 

216 

214 

216 

211 

211 

214 

214 

214 

214 

216 

217 

214 

214 

215 

216 

217 

218 

218 

218 

219 

221 

22S 

216 

218 

218 

217 

212 

218 

218 

222 

228 

221 



JBLUBS. 



Apple, 
Apple, Grab 
Blaokbernr> 
Crab AppWt 

Currant, 

Cranberry, 

Calf *s feet. 

Gelatine, 

Grajpe, 

Medlajr, 

Quince, 

Bice, 



224 
226 
226 
226 
226 



226 



827 

227 



IVDBX. 



393 



Tapiooft, 

Wine, Mn. Webeter"! 



Page. 

227 
226 
225 
226 



VBBSH FRUITS. 

Blftokberrioi, 

CherriM, 

Goiranti, 

Cammti and Haokleberriee, 

Gairaatsand Baspberrief, 

Huokleberriei, 

8trawb6rri609 



229 
280 
229 
280 
280 
280 
229 



TBAST BRBAD, BISCUIT, fto. 



Bread, 


282 


Bread, General Rales, 


288 


Bread, Rye and Indian 


288 


Bread, Graham 


284 


Bread, Sweet Brown 


284 


Bread, RioeTlonr 


284 


Bread, Moift Rioe 


286 


Bread, Apple 


285 


Bread, Palled 


285 


Bread, Pieces of 


285 


Baked Batter, 


286 


Batter Cakes ibr Tea, 


240 


Breakfiust Cakes, English 


240 


Bisoait, Graham 


240 


Breakftst Cakes, Fanny's 


286 


Biscuit, 


240 


Bisoait, Mrs. D's Tea 


287 


BreakfJMt Johnny Cake, 


287 


Breakfast Cornoake, 


237 


Buttermilk Break&st Cakes, 


288 


Buns, Hot Cross, Good Friday 


241 


Com Cream (Jake, 


287 


Com Bread, 


287 


Com Meal Waffles, 


288 


Crampets, Laight St 


239 


Green Cora Cakes, 


280 


Hoe Cakes, 


286 


Johnny Cake, Break&st 


287 


Johnny Cake, Western 


238 


MafBns, 


241 


Ottteakee, 


239 



Bosks, 

Rolls, French 

Rioe Bisouit, 

Rye Drop Cakei, 

Rice Puffii, 

Rice Flour Puflb, 

Rioe Flour Cake, 

Rolls, Flour and PoUto 

Rice Waffles, 

Shortcake, 

Soda Biscoit, 

Soft Waffles, 

Toast, Dry 

Toast, Dip 

Toast, Cx«am 

Yeast, 

Teast, Conneotioat 

Yeast, Excellent 

Yeast, Potato 

Yeast Cakes, ^ 



286 
240 
286 
286 
288 
288 
288 
239 
28d 
285 
240 
241 
242 
242 
242 
281 
281 
281 
281 
282 



GRIDDLB 0AEB8 AND FARI- 
NAOBOUS DISHBS. 



Buckwheat, 

Bread, 

Bannock, Ponghkeepeia 

Common, 

Cream 

Economical, 

Frumety, English 

Flannel, 

Gruel, Indian Meal 

Hominy and Fkurina, 

Hominy Cakes, 

Hasty Pudding, 

Hulled Com, 

Porridge, Milk 

Rice, 

Rioe Flour, 

Rye Meal Mush, 

Shroye Tuesday, 

Soda, 

Scotch, 

Samp, 

Tomato, 

BRBAKFAST. 



242 
248 
fleer'i 245 
242 
248 
244 
247 
288 
246 
245 
246 
246 
247 
246 
248 
245 
246 
248 
248 
245 
246 
245 



Bills of Fare for Breakflwt 260 



394 



IVBSZ. 



TIA, OOTFBB, BTO. 

Cold Coffee, 
Chocolate, Amerievi 
Chocolftte, Frenoh 
Coooa, 
Dinner Coffee, 

Tea, 

Tea, to make 

DI5NBB. 

Plain Bflla of Fare Ibr Dinner 
all the year ionnd» 

JTannaxy, 

February, 

Maroh, 

April, 

May, 

Jane, 

Jnly, 

Angnst, 

September, 

October, 

NoTembiar, 

December, 

Birthday Dinner, 

ThanksgiTin^ Dinner, 

Chrietmaa Dinner, 

WINBS AITD DBIKKS. 

Black Corrant, 
Blackberry, 
Blackberry Brandy, 
Berry Drink, 
Currant, 
Currant Black 
Cherry Brandy, 
Com Drink, Yankee 
Claret Punch, 
Cool Cup, 

Chrifltmae Egg nog, 
Cold Punch, 
Rider, 



26S 
258 
264 
264 
264 
264 
268 
264 
266 



266 

256 
257 
267 
268 
269 
269 
260 
260 
261 
262 
268 
264 
262 
268 
264 



266 
268 
269 
272 
266 
262 
269 
272 
274 
274 
275 
275 
267 



Elder Floner, 

2ggNog, 

Egg Nog, ChrifltniM 

Grape, 

Grape Syrup, 

Gooseberry, 

Green Gooseberry, 

Ginger, 

Ginger Beer, 

Ginger Beer, Cask 

Ginger Pop, 

Hop Beer, 

Imperial, 

Lemonade, Milk • 

Lemonade PortaUe, 

Mead, 

Milk Lemonade, 

May Drink, 

MilkPunoh, 

Oxford Swig, 

Portable, Lemonade 

Quick Beer, 

Quick Drink, 

Rhubarb, 

Raspberry Syrup, 

Spruce Beer, 

Shrub, 

Sherry Gobbler, 4th July 

Staten Island Lemonade, 

Sack Posset, 

MISOBLLANBOnS. 



278 
276 
267 
266 
268 
269 
269 
270 
270 
272 
270 
272 
278 
278 
271 
278 
274 
276 
274 
278 
271 
272 
268 
270 
271 
271 
278 
278 
276 



Apples, to keep 227 

Butter Cooler, 281 

Bread, Homemade 288 

Bed Bugs, 293 

Bouquet, to Preserve 298 

Cabbages, to Keep 278 

Cornstarch instefuL of ISggi, 280 

Cement, Diamond 281 

Cochineal, 282 

Commeal, ImproTins 282 

icemen t for Metal and Gla«, 284 

«i. r!^ks in StoTes, 284 

Creaking Hinges, 285 

Cement, Water and Fire Proof 285 

Chimney, Fire in 286 

Carpet, Soiled 287 
Crftpe, to Stiilni 



**»■ 



r^a^s 



CftM, Water SpOti In ]U«ek 288 

Cookioaohei, 292 

Crickets, 298 

Damp Woolen ^tbii^, 280 

Diamond Cement, 281 

Drippings, to clailiy 283 

Hggs, Snow Batwtitnte fi>r 280 
£gg8> Com Steroh initeBd of 280 

Egg paper, 280 

Easter Eggs, 294 

Frozen Potatoes, 280 
Fruit Stains, to Wash From 

Hands 280 

Frait Sinking, 282 

Flatirons, RoH on 284 

Flatirons, Bongh 284 

'Eixjsi* ChinuK^, 286 

Furniture, 287 

Floors, Scouring 287 

Grapes, Keeping 277 

Grease, to Bemoye 286 

Grease Spots, 291 
Grease on a leather coyered 

Book, 291 

Hail, to Strengthen 281 

Hens, to make lay 282 

Hatching, 283 

Handles, Knife to Fasten 284 

lyory Handles, 283 

Ice on Windows, 286 

Iron Stain, 290 

' Ink Spots on Linen, 289 

Ink on Books, 291 

Ink, Marking 291 
Ink, Green, Blue, Gold and 

SiWer 291 

Kitchen Odors, 282 

Kid GloTes, to Clean 290 

Lemons, to Keep 279 

Lobster's Eggs, 281 

Uaen, To take Ink out of 289 

Linen, To Bestoie Stained 289 

Mustard, 278 

Mushrooms, To Preserre 279 
Meat, Game, &c.. To keep in 

Hot Weather 279 

Meat, To Remove Taint from 279 

Mohiases, To Clarify 293 

Mtrble* To Clean 286 



Pagw 

Marks on TaUe, 286 

Mahogany, To giye fine Celor 287 

MUdew, to take out 288 

Muslins, Washing 290 

Marking Ink, 291 

Moths, 292 

Nosegays, 293 

Peas, TokempferWinlwUit 277 

Parsley, to Keep , 279 

Potatoes, Frozen 280 

Polishing Paste, 286 

Paste, Water Proof 286 

Paint, To dean 287 

Paint, Cheap 287 

Paperod Wails, 287 

Paint Spots on Goth, Silk, &e. 289 

Perftime, Home made 298 

Pot Pourri, 294 

Rust on Kniyes, 284 

Rough Fhitirons, 284 

Rust, Vamish to Preyent 286 

Rays of Sun, 286 

Ribbons, To Iron 228 

Rats and Mice, 292 

Roses, Tinetare of 294 

Snow Substitute for Eggi, 280 

Soft Soap, 286 

Silk, To Renoyate Black 288 

Silk, To Clean 290 

Spermaceti Spots, 291 

To keep Grapes, 277 

To keep Apples, 277 

To keep Pears, 277 

To keep Cabbages, 278 

To keep Mustard, 278 

To keep Lemons, 279 

To keep Parsley, 279 

To preserve Mushrooms, 279 
To keep Meat, Game, &c in 

Hot Weather, 279 

To remove taint from Meat, 279 

Turnips, Size of 280 
To Wash Fruit Stains from 

Hands, 280 

To Make Hens lay in Winter, 282 

To fatten Turkeys, 282 

To Clarify Drippings, 288 

To Clarify Molasses, 288 

To fasten Knife Handlet. 2M 



396 



ITKHMX. 



1lbtalEeoifru8tfh»mFlatiroii8, 284 
To preyent Lamp Chimneys 

Braking, 285 

To driTO Nails, 286 

To Remove Grease, 286 

To Clean Marble, 286 

Table, Marks on 286 
To give fine color to Mahogany, 287 

To Clean Paint, 287 

Tc Scour Floors, ^ 287 

To Iron Ribbons, 288 

To Stiffen Crape, 288 
To remove broken Spots from 

Velvet 288 

To Clean Black Laoe Veils, 288 

To Renovate Black Silk, 288 

To take out Mildew, 288 

To take Ink out of Linen, 289 
To wash print or lawn Dresses, 289 

To wash Colored Muslins, 290 

To restore Stained Linen, 289 

To Clean Silk, 290 

To clean Kid Gloves, 290 

To remove Spermaceti Spots, It ^ 

To Preserve Bouquets, 2{*'6 

Tincture of Roses, 294 

Vermin, 281 
Voice, to Clear and Strengthen 281 

Varnish to prevent Rust, 288 
Velvet, to remove broken spots 288 

Veils, To Clean 286 

Woolen Clothing, Damp 280 

Windows, Ice on 285 

Water and Fire Proof Cement, 285 

Water Proof Paste, 286 

Water Spots in Black Crape, 288 

FOOD FOB INVALIDS. 

Apple water, 299 

Breakfast, a sick 298 

Beef Tea, 298 

Broiled Tenderloin, 801 

Dinn«r» 298 

Eggs, soft boiled, 298 

Gruel, 296 

Jelly, Calf 's foot 297 

Lsmonade, 299 

Milk and Eggs, 801 



Milk thickened. 
Oyster Soup, 
Panada, 

Pudding, Invalid 
Pie, Apple 
Prunes, stewed 
Pudding, Tapioca eap 
Boast Apples, 
Soup, Oyster 
Toast, Soft 
Toast, Egg 
Tea, a sick 
Toast, Dry 

Tapioca Cup puddSng, 
Toast, Milk 

FOOD FOR INFANTS 
CHILDREN. 

Bread and milk. 

Baby Pudding, 

Brown Mush for supper. 

Cow's milk, 

Children's Pie, 

Cranberries, 

English Pap, 

Essentials, 

Infant's Broth, 

Pudding, Baby 

Pie, Children's 

Starchy Food, 

Toung Children, Food for 



800 
801 
297 
298 
299 
299 
800 
299 
801 
297 
297 
298 
800 
800 
800 



AND 



805 
804 
895 
804 
805 
805 
803 
804 
804 
804 
805 
808 
805 



LADIES LUNCHES. 
Bill of Fare, 807 

NEW year's TABLE, EVE- 
NING REFRESHMENTS, 
PARTIES, ETC. 



New Year's Table, 

A Family Dinner Party, 

A small Supper Party, 

Refreshments, 

A Children's Party, 

A Christmas Party, 



809 
810 
810 
811 
811 
812 



XVDSZ. 



397 



WASdme dat. 



Fiffi. 



VTashiaff Day, 813 

Blonde Laoe, to wash 815 

Colored Starch, 815 

Laoes and Needlework, 814 
Mnalin, Lawn, or Print 

Dresses, 815 

Baylnfir Soap, 816 

Shirts, how to starch 816 

Starch, Colored 815 

Table-Cloths, Napkins, etc, 814 
White Flannels, 814 

Zephyr Goods and Colored 

FlanneLi, 814 



THE DAIBT. 

Cows, 

MUk-Boom, 
leaking Batter, 



817 
817 
817 



JEWISH RECEIPTS. 

Crackers, Sweet 823 

Chicken, Brown Fricassee 819 

Oike, Cap 822 

Cocombers, Pickled 825 

Dnmpling, Lemon 824 

Fish, White stewed 819 

Fritters, Porim 820 

Fish, Codfish Fritters 820 

Meringaes, 821 

Marmalade, 828 

Orgeat, 828 

Padding, a Good 820 

Padding, Lemon 821 

Padding, Rich Lemon 821 

Padding, Apple 821 

Padding, Bread and Batter 822 

Padding, Sally Lann 822 

Padding, Light 824 

Padding, Cocoanat 823 

Podding, Almond 324 

Sandwiches, Albert 321 

Tomatoes for Winter Use, 324 



PAVORITB DISHES OF DI8 
TINGUISHED PERSONS. 

Tartle Bean Soap— Henry 
Ward Beecher's favorite 827 

Biscuits, Henry Ward Beech- 
er's 828 

Plam Padding, AHce Cary's 328 

Padding, Herodotas' 329 

Apple-Dumpling, Phoebe 
Gary's boiled 329 

Compote of Apples, Phoebe 
Cary's 829 

Snow Balls, Phoebe Cary's 830 

Tenderloin of Beef garnished 
with Mushrooms, Anna 
Dickinson's 330 

Apple Tapioca Padding, Su- 
san B. Anthony's 830 

Veal Cutlets in Papillottes, 
(curl -papers,) Olive Lo- 
gan's 831 



SOROSIS RECEIPTS 



Biscuit, Very Nice 


882 


Muffins, Indian 


832 


Com Cake, 


832 


Biscuit, Drop 


333 


Muffins, Baked 


833 


Crumpets, 


838 


Cake, Rye Drop 


833 


Sally Lunn, 


833 


PUDDINGa 





Pudding, Marlborough 833 
Pudding, Marrow 334 
Padding, Eve's 334 
Pudding, Flour 334 
Pudding, Cottage 834 
Cake, Agnes Noble's Pre- 
mium Sponge 334 
Cake, Jelly 835 
Cake, Lemon 885 
Soup, Mock Tartle 885 



ada 



IMXSjLpi 



FVtroe-iniMt Balls for TotUa, 
Mock Turtle, or Made 
Diflhes, 837 

Effg-ballfl, 887 

Belgnet QovdB6, 837 

MayoimalBe Saaoe for Chick- 
en ot Lobster Salad— 4 la 
Delmonioo, 888 

Sauce, Spanisli 888 

BaQce, Velvet 888 

Lobater— i la OordelaM, 888 
Aaberffine Farda-— Bgg-Plant 

Bto^, 889 

Soup a la Gond6, 889 

Potato Boalette»-i la Del- 

monieo, 889 

Potato Blbboaa-4 la Del- 

monioo, 840 

Tea, 840 

Coflee, 840 

MuflOiiB, 841 

Salad Dreaainff, 841 

Ifinoe Pies, 841 

Rice Podding^A. T. Stewart*! 841 
Chicken Frieaaaee, A. T. Stew- 
art's 84d 
Apple Padding, lira. A. T. 

Stewart's 842 

Huckleberry Podding, a new 842 
Indian Huckleberry Padding, 

Mme. Demoreet'a favorite 848 
IVuit Lunch, Mr. Demorest's 

fkTorite 848 

Xjemonade, Angie^i 848 



GENUINE RECEIPTS FROM 
THE ONEIDA COMMUNITY. 

(Oontrlbated by a Hember.) 

Jelly, Currant 344 

Jelly, Raspberry 344 

Piekling, 344 
Pineapple, for Presenring 845 

Cherries, Sweet 845 

Raspberries, 845 

Plums, 845 



Peaches, 3411 

Tomatoes, Canned S45 

Cooking Tomatoes, another 

Rec^pt for 846 

Shortcake, Strawberry 346 

Bread, 34i 



RICHFIELD SPRINGS RE- 
CEIPTS. 

Meringue, Lemon Pudding 347 
Omelet, 347 

Cream Pie, 347 

Com Bread, 348 

Buttermilk ' Biscuit, Aunt 

Fanny's 348 

Yule Cake, English 348 

Strawberries whole— a tee 

Receipt 348 

Hunting Beef, Leioeskecshire 848 
Biscuits, Mother's 349 



A STRONG-MINDED 


WO. 


MAN'S RECEIPTS 


B 


SyUabub, Whipped 


850 


Ice Currants, 


850 


Oeam, Lemon 


850 


Cream, Snow 


850 


Fritters, Spanish 


851 


Sauce, Cranberry 


851 


Potato Balls, 


851 



Com Bread, without Milk, 351 

Gingerbread, Pound. (Ex- 

ceUent.) ^ 359 

Pudding, Almond. ' (Very 

rich.) 858 

Pudding, Sago m 

Indian-Mesl Drops, 859 

Ginger-nuts, 853 

Salve, Invaluable 8S3 

Sponge Cake, Cream B53 

Currants, Spiced m 

Milk Gruel, 8(9 



IHDXZ. 



399 



Dried Fruit, to keep Worms 

from 853 

RoUb, French 353 

Jarrot Pie, 854 

\ Hint to HouBekeepers, 354 
Pails, painted 354 

(/Veam Cakes — a Confection- 
er's Receipt, 354 
Oingrerbread, Sugar 354 
Pudding, Troj 855 
Crettn, Velvet 355 
Soup, German 856 



Pag« 
Raised Leicestershire Pork- 
pie, Francatelli's Receipt 
for 355 

Wine irom Oranges, 350 

Palm Wine, 856 

Mock Turkey, 35? 

Peach Fie, 357 

aaret Pundi, 357 

Meats and their Accompani- 
ments, 858 
Thanksgiving Turkey, Mrs. 
Partington's 868 



OARVINGh. 



FISH. 

Oarving, general directions, 860 

God's Head and Shoulders, 860 

Eel, 861 

Halibut, 361 

Lobster, 861 

Salmon, 861 

Sole, 861 

MEATS. 



Beef, Aitchbone, 
Beef, Brisket, 
Beef, Bibs, 
Beef, Bound, 
Beef, Sirloin, 
Beef Tongus, 
Calf's Head, 
Ham, 

Lamb, Fore-quarter, 
Lamb, Leg, 
Lamb, Loin, 
Lamb, Saddle, 
Lamb, Shoulder, 
Leg of Pork, 
Mutton, Haunch, 
Mutton, Leg, 
Mutton, Lorn, 
Mutton, Saddle, 
Mutton, Shoulder, 
Sacking Pig, 



861 
862 
862 
868 
862 
863 
869 
867 
866 
866 
866 
866 
866 
868 
864 
864 
864 
865 
365 
867 



Veal, Breast, 
Veal, Fillet, 
Yeal, Knuckle, 
Veal, Loin, 



POULTRY. 

Boiled Fowl, 
Babbits, 
Boast Duck, 
Boast Fowl, 
Boast Goose, 
Boast Turkey, 
Pigeon, 

GAME. 

Haunch of Yenison, 

Landrail, 

Ortolans, 

Partridges, 

Pheasant, 

Plovers, 

Prairie Hen, 

Ptarmigan, 

Quails, 

Boast Hare, 

Snipe, 

Teal 

Wild' Duck, 

Widgeon. 

Woodcock, 



869 
860 
870 



871 
875 
37D 
873 
878 
875 
875 



878 
879 
879 
877 
878 
879 
878 
379 
879 
876 
878 
880 
876 
880 
879 



THE MODERN BARTENDER'S GUIDE. 



CO N'THUMTS . 



Sootob miUi Eklik. 
B«v«ndi It^IDUt PUBD 

- udEn 
ai' fS 

Slilr|iiliilll Kift. rilllfci 



irUcb ^ lAM ngUpa fcr mikliic in klndi Of 

AXC»eTltUreLCONCENTBATHl> FBOTf BYBT^L nXStt 

"^iaii, BOAimiEsriBUFEdiiicB Damsa, Bid, cm 



HBDadXlH. 



EXCELSIOR PUBLISHING HOUSE, 

P, O, Box U44, SB A 31 Beekmsn Street, New York, N. T. 



Niw UN) hipuUr Boold tant Fiw of PteUg« at PricM AnnexM. 

■XOBLSIOR WEBSTER POCKET SPELLER AND 
DEFIHER of the English Languaga.- 
Cooialoliig nwtr stfiOO wonli. Ttil* work girm Uw 
oonaet cntliognpb; and dsfinltlon of all tha wonli 
(neommaDnas. Tlie flhutntlon glTe* a Mr UM 
of UieillMWOfthework, belnx eapedallj made to 
flt the pocket, and boosd fn a ityls which makea It 
donUe and (degant. TMa 8peUer and DcOoer li 
not a itjjttat, but haa been carefallr prepand br 
oompetant bands to meet tbe general want for a 
book of tbta kind; and, for Uie apace It occnptei^ 
haanon^ierforbitbapaUUilncwortdi Motainlii( 
19) pacM, donUe o^Dom, It wdgha 9i ouDcea. aiie 
Sx^Indiea, neatir bound In etef^t Anuilcan 
BDMla LeattMr, Bnniithed Sd«c«, and Jwiw <. 



BROWN'S BUSINESS OORREflPOHDENOE AND 
MANUAL OF DIOTATIOH.-BkpedallrdealgnedtorthaiiM 

flCTaadbcnand Btndantaof Bteoogr^iraDd7rP**'<t'>V. Ooatalnlne 



tanetoatlon, BpeUlng, and Uae of Capital Lettera; logetber with a full 
aal complete spdiiuc Lict of >7,ooo wotda. Alio Spedal ExetdiM fbr 
rUlltallln I aiiifiillj graded— oomprlsliig aeleotlona from cboloelltecatiink 
TnnMdpta of Ooort TeaUmony, Addnaa to iarj. Judge's Cthrga, and 
BentMMa; Ardittacfa fipedttoatkina; copiea of Legal Ptform Bankwli 
Veoklr nnandal Orealan, Hallroad Leaw, Flrtt Vortgage, oopr <tf 
Bwd, Oootiaeta, Proapectol, Notlaea, etc, etc Br William B. Browii, 
Aobnotor in Bttoogntiij at the Yonog Hen's chrltUoii Aaaoclatlon-- 
BBricmSrancb— MewToAOltT'. COatalna 120 pacM, lacge Umo, ctoth. 



..#1.0 



WILSON'S MODERN DANOE8.-A.i>e«aipaBitlonotantl>a 
Modcfn Dancee, Inelndlng The York, LAPavane, UlUtarr Bchottlah, ChrlM- 
maa Folka, Tt\^hit.nA SehotUih, Walti-Caprlce; containing Fall, Clear, 
•Bd FlaeUeol InKrncUra Dlagrama cr 



EXCELSIOR PUBLISHINO HOUSE, 

M m (I Btttau Unit, n» Yart, Kr. 



Nmr lUid Popular Bookt tent Free of Postage it Prkst Annexed, 

fJORRECT MANIIER8.-Ac«niiletoluuid-book«fEtlquette. Bs 

L J. R This booh etres mach >a]u&b]e lufonuatlon regaid- 

[ fng modam etiqnetta, nileo, usttges, maimers aod custOBic 

I of poUtfl floclat^; together with & department under the 

hflftd of " Etiquette In a Hut-ebell," heins rft«ms coDCiw 

rules; also '^Ocor^e Y''s&hlngu>u*B Lifu Tt'-Tim.i '' ]t Jg 

oos of the beet hwid-books ot the sort erer offered to the 

I public The Ulustntlon glTS« fair Idea of the shape of 

F Prem Godey't ilaganaa. Novembtr, rSiji: *■ CXiaSMK 
lLu<i>Bu.~Br J. B. Aboui flfty milUoD Amertcans need 
Ihls book. It is xmall euaugli to bide in a out pocket, yet It oootalna 
about SOD oloaely prlnCad V-^t»r Thlch b«:lii itidi twentj-flre panaraplia 
eoUt-cUTelreDtl&ea'EltqnetTefn aNut«taelL' After these eom»'Beiii|« 
VashlngMn'* Ufa **"'""' lAich, thooch old. are hard to imprcm vfA. 
FoUowliig these aieeh^ters on ph)r«ioardep>rtme(it,coi»ra*MImi,(art(^ 
nwmoiT. modestf, dreM, atteoilini, tabhMalk, dlnnen and paitfaa— ia 
short, almost evwUiltis at whkdi men and munen deslie td wu^r "«■■• 
thini^hretrltDowboir. A1) of the author's sogsestloiis are tewble; UMn 
Is DO mere fashionable nonaeiise in them." 

mswoifteontaloltetp^es. Bound Id A]II(ator. Plica.... SO eta. 

HOW TO MAKE A DYNAMO.-BrAlfredCrorta. Apractlcal 
wrak tor Amateuisand Eteotriclana, containing nameroua lUustraUoM 

the Eleetrio Light. Laigeiamo. Ctotb. Frioe. 7S «ta. 

KXCBLSIOR WEBSTER POCKET DIOTIONARY.- 

OlTes the OTthogTaptar and deflnitlon ot about %,O0O words, Koaog irtikfa 
■re many words not usually foucd in a dlctloiiat7 of tbla size. It can ba 
most coBTColeDtlr retecred to and fits the Pocket, bdiig c^eciaU; piepar- 
•d for that purpose. The dlctloaai? la not a reprint, but has becD cars> 
TuSr prepared b j ocanpeteut haods to meet Ott gaieral want for » book 
of Uiis kiod, and for the space It occupies baa no auperlor in Uie puUlsUnB 
world. Ooolalnlng isa pages, double oolomn. BlzaSz^lnchea. Boand 
tDBtlntoloth. Price, tsots. Indexed. SS eta. 

THE PRACTICAL AMOLER.-How, when and whmtoOatob 

nah. By Kit Clarke.AQthor of '•'WheretheTroutHlde,"eto. OlTtof* 
descriptloD of ^1 American Game Fish caught with hook ud line; metliodi 
of capture; tbeir habits and haunts, and all requisite information wboeb]' 
the Dorloe eaa acquire tbe art, and enjoy tlie dellgbttol recreation of golDg 
ftOitdDC. lUtMtnMd. Paper coTcr.BOoU CSoth. $1.00 



EXCELSIOR PUBLISHING HOUSE, 

28 ud 81 BwkMi Strart* Nw YmIi, ILY. 



liMoRsENfriS' 



EXCELSIOR SELECTIONS.-A couectic. of 

the most popalar and successful Readings and Redtations adapted 
for Public or Parlor Entertainments. It is the newest and handsomest 
book of its kind ever published. Bound in elegant cloth, with gold back 
and side stamps, and red burnished edges, containing 500 pages. 
Price. M«0« 

CUNSMITH'S MANUAL.-Thls work covers de. 
scriptions of guns and pistols, fitting up a shop, general gunsmithing; 
takmg apart, cleaniotg:, and putting together ; tools required ; how to 
make tools ; the work-bench ; working in iron, steel, copper, brass, 
silver, and wood ; gun-stocks, gun-barrels, tools for breeching gvaa, 
tools for chambering breech-loading barrels, etc, etc. A hcmdsomt 
volume of nearly 400 large pages, with numerous engravings, di^ 
grams, and plates. Cloth. Price .... $I9«00 

THE STANDARD SIGN WRITER.-This 

book is very generally recognized as the standard work on the subject 
Its instructions cire clear, precise, and practical, and cover just the 
ground desired by most of^the profession. Price « $2*00 

COPLEY'S PLAIN AND ORNAMENTAL 

Alpftaoets. — ^With Examples in every style. Also, the Mechani- 
cal and Analytical Construction of Letters, Figures, and Titles. With 
Designs for Titles, Ciphers, Monograms, Borders, Compasses, Floup* 
ishes, etc., designed as a Text-Book for the use of Draughtsmen, Civil 
Engineers, Surveyors, Aiclutects, Engraven, Designers, Sign Paint- 
ers, Schools, etc. DfawB and arrax^ied by Frederick S.Copley. Large 
quarto, extra doth. Price. •«.. 05^00 

BOOK Of JAP ANESE ORNAMENTA- 

tton. — A collection of Designs adapted to the use of Decoratoiii 
Designers, Sign Painters, Silversmiths, and others. It meets the want 
created by the prevailing fashion for ** Jap,** and will be found M^W 
useful for a variety of purposes. The designs are aU practical, 
and rai^« from the simplest styles to the most elaborate work. 
Price. ^li.Oa 

BURDETT'8 WORLD OP HUMOIr.-:Thii 

novel compilation is rfiade to meet the wants of the many who are 
always seaicbxng' for the latest and most popular gems of humor. It 
comprises all the best pieces in the different dialects, as follows: 
Yankee,^ Irish. French, Dutch, and Negro. Containing 500 pagea. 
Bound in cloth, with characteristic design in black and gold stamps. 
Price... $t.M 

THE STANDARD HOYLE.-A new and reliable^ 

authority on all games now played in the United States. This book is, 
without question, the most complete on the subject, containing in ad- 
dition to all the games of skill and chance, thirty-five new games never 
before published in any book. Every game in our Hoyle can be played 
from the Rules and explanations there given, which is nof the case with 
every Hoyie published. All the new games pfiven are now popular in 
tome portion of our coHntry . In short, there is no book of its class that 
OKitams so much matter ; so much that is new, or presents k so accepts 
bfytothe reader. Containing 500 pp. , large i2mo, extra doth. $%•( 

BXOBIiftlOB PUBI1I8HING HOI78B| 
M«liA §1 MHUmma Streei| Hew Vofki H* !# 



Practical Trade Manuaw 

Copley*0 Plain u&d Ornamental Alpliabet8.*Ezamples la every itvic 
H«chamcal and Analyticsil Constmction of Letters, Designs for Tide% 
Gphers, Monograms, Borders, Compasses, Flourishes, elc New EdUion, 
Price •S.OO 

Book of Alphabets.— For Pabters, Dranglitsmen, De«gners, eto AI 
standard styles and nuny new and popuhr ones, German, French, Old 
English, etc Price. 50 ete^' 

Albom of Faney Alphabete— For Sign Painters. It ghres the fiuhion* 
aUe styles of the day. Price 76 cts* 

Mgn, Oaniage and DeooratlTO Paintinsr*— Full of valuable points 
upon the several branches of the trade. It indudes Fresco and\^Ar Faintt 
ing,andotfaer useful matters. Price • 50 otV' 

I«nda>s Fancy AlpliabetB.<*These alohabets are die producdon of a Fren«|» 
artist, and have long been fiivorites witn draughtsmen and others in Amer« 
Qoth SLOO 



ttandard Scroll Book, The.--A collection of upward of two hundred doi 
signs, for painters, jewelers, designers, decorators, and every branch requir« 
ing ornamental scroll work. It must be seen to be appreciated. Prominent 
features in this Sock are the shaded scrolls, and the designs for signs, wagons 
and omnibuses. Price S1«00 

ai^w to Draw and Paint.— The whole art of Drawing and Painting, com 
taining concise instructions in outline, light and shade, perspective, ^etdi< 
f ■>. jr from nature, etc. , etc. One hundred illustradons. Boards, cloth back, 
i'nce SOeti. 



ManoaL— -A ^ide to gilding in all its branches as used in the 
several trades, such as uterior decoration, picture and looking-glass frames, 
oil and water gilding, regilding, gilding china, glass, china, pottery, etc. , etc 
Price 50 eta. 

Uio Standard Slgrn Writer.— The standard work on the subject. Its ia« 
structions are clear, precis^ and practical, and cover just the ground desired 
bymostof the profisssion. Price S!3*00 

tOOO Specimens of Monograms, adapted to die use of Painters, Printers, 
Engravers, Stamp Makers, Stamping and General Designing. Papef 
cover 50ot8» 

Use of Colors.— Valuable treatise on the properties of different pigments and 
dieir suitableness to uses of artists and students. Price 25 ctB. 

Scene PaintiDgr and Painting: In Distemper.— Gives (uH instructions 
in the preparation of the colors, drawing for scene painters, stage settings 
and uj^eful information regarding, stage appliances 'and effects. Numerous 
illustrative diagrams and engravmgs. Price 91*00 

Painter's Afannal.— A practical guide to house and sign painting, graining 
varnishing, polishing, Icalsominingj papering, lettering, staining,^ gildinj^ 

glazing, Slivering, etc., etc Including treatise on How to Mix Paints. Tb 
le learner the lx>ok is simply indispensable. Price 50 Cta. 

Writing and Glass Embossing:.— A standard work widdy and 
&vorably known : new edition, with nevHy engraved illustrations and at a 
greaUy reduced price 75 otfc 

Any of the above books sent postpaid on receipt of price. 

"EXCELSIOR PUBLISHING HOUSE, 

SJL* tl Bookman SC«9 New F«rt»li^-1h 



AND POPULAR BOOKS S£NT FREE OF POSTAGE AT PRICES ANNEXCft 

BEALE*8 CALISTHENICS and LICHT GYMNASTICS 
for ITonng Folks.— 130 Illustrations. ContaiDing Broom and Fan 
Drills, Marches, Fencing, Club and Dumb Bell Exercises, etc., etc. Thin 
is the most complete work published on the subject. 160 pages. Boards. 
TScts. Cloth, price $1.0# 

•URDETT'S SELECT RECITATIONS AND READ- 

liie*9 in Prose and Poetry.— For the use of Schools, Colleges, 

' Ana Public Readers. 500 pages, ISmo. Cloth. Price $1.0# 

f 

VHE ELITE LETTER W R ITER, -A comprehensive assiBtaj4i 

^ and instructor in correspondence on all the occasions of social Ufa* 

Oontainlng Model Letters, Hints on Punctuation, etc., etc. 128 pages, 

Fapercover. Price 25 ets* 

WILFORD'S^ ORIGINAL DIALOGUES AND RECI- 
tations for Toang Folks.— Bemg by mr the most complete of its 
kind ever issued. This work supplies that palpable need, which has so 
long been evident in books of this class, that of Dialogues and Speeches 
adapted to the natures of children. Containing 160 pages. Board cover, 
with cloth back. Price.. 50 cts* 

CUSHING'S MANUAL.-Revised edition, with additions and cor. 
rectious. No one who wishes to take part in the proceedings of any -■ 

organized body can afford to do without the help of this little volume; 
knowledge of its contents alone is a valuable education, and the price is 
so moderate that no one need deprive himself of its teachings. Con> 
taining 200 pages, paper cover, price 26 cts. Cloth Gilt 60 ets« 

Spreclien Sf e Pentscli ? 

GERMAN AT A GLANCE.— A sew i^stem on the most simple 
prisciples, for universal self -tuition, with English pronunciation of every 
word. By this system any person can become proficient in the Gtermaa 
language in a very short time. It is the most complete and easy method 
ever published. By Franz Thimm. (Revised edition). Bound in boards^ 
cloth back, S5 cts. Paper cover, price 35 cts* ^ 



Parlez-Vons Fran eais ? 

FRENCH AT A GLANCE.— Usiform, ..nd arranged the same ai 
" German at a Glance," being the raos& thorough and easy syvtem for 
self-tuition. (Revised and corrected by Prof. M. Gauthier). Bound ia 
boards, doth back, 85 cts. Bound in paper cover, price US ets* 

jHabla V. Espanol ? 

SPANISH AT A GLANCE.-A new system for self tuition, ar- 
ranged the same as French andT German, being the easiest method of 

/ acquiring a thorough knowledge of the Spanish language. (Revi£(ed 
•dition). Bound in boards, cloth back, 85 cts. Bound in paper cover. 
Price ...r.as 



Parlate Italtano 1 ^ 

TALIAN AT A GLANCE.— Uulform in size and sfjle with Ckw 
man, Brench and Spanish, being the most simple method of learning ths 
Kalian language. (Revised edition). Bound in boards, cloth baek, 85 oISi 
Bsuud in paper cover, price 96 Sisr 

BXCBIiSIOR PfJBIilSniNG fiOUSB, 
M and 81 Beekinan Street, Neiv Torkf N« T« 



\ 



EXCELSIOR SELECTtCmg. 




Contalolne 800 paKait boaod In eztr» Cloth, Pttaa lUJfc 



BRUDDER GARDNER'S 

Stump Speecbes and Comic Lectares. 

Oootalnliw the Bett Hits of the IiewKDe NeEm I>elincB.tor9 of the PreBent Day, 

OampHilDsIheHiiatAmiBlnKudSlde^plittineContrLbutioDoFOrelor- 

leal ESiuloii* which hu ever be«n Produced to the Public. 



BudB Bra(kar'(0|4Bl«<f Iha 



Vvkv Dalwlbf Boditj, n*. OnAiy. 



CONTENTS. 



bl^^ 



DE VERB'S 

Wit, Hnmor, Pathos, and Parodies. 

Te aie pleaaed U 
poiM) " Kr. Wm. Dt 
U« tbeatrleal nooei 
bsKd thcM) pteoH n 



Te aie pleaaed to Inform onr potroiu tb&t we have Induced (kt m Knwt ei 

—at) '■ Mr. Wm. De Von," the preat aotor, lecturer, and poet, to btlntf out 

"■—•"■"' — Bemw In book form. No doubt ■ gre»tin«jiy persona hare 

, M iMilted b7 different "hIatb" of the ptatealoD, and will tut 

daUlJated to gM Ibem aU togetlier In this couTOQlent lonn. 
CONTENTS. 



1 But Ikv'n KM UtLv Tt>- 



BbHAA iit nkutmted Cover, aantstnlDg; 1«0 pacn. FrlM M 0«nta> 

Tor ad» by all Bookaellera, or will be sent, pMtpaid, on receipt of pilM, 

EXCELSIOR PUBLISHING HOUSE, 

f. O, Box SIA4. SB aad 31 Beekman itrMt^ Haw Toik, H. T. 






n 



mw AND POFDLAR BOOKS SEUT POST-PAID OR SMOSIPV 09 FBSM 



PAYNE'S RULES OP ORDER, an A B c Goku 

to PSarBamentary Law and the Transactioii of Pablic Business, showing also 
how to properly Organize and Conduct Public Meetings, Societies, A^oda* 
tions. Clubs, Unions, etc., etc. Containing Instructions to Presidents, 
Secretaries, Treasurers, and Committeemen as to their duties, as well as the 
Official Forms of Reports, Resolutions, etc. The whole based upon the best 
authorities, including Cushing, McPherson, Roberta, Fish, and other wdi« 
known writers on Parliamentaiy Law and Practice, so arranged and simpli* 
fied as to be readily understood. By F. M. Payne, author of '* Payne's Busi- 
ness Letter Writer and Commercial Forms." 140 pages.. Paper cover, 30 
oemts; Cloth JHOets* 

PAYNE'S BUSINESS LETTER WRITER 

iftH«l Book oIT Conunerelal Forms. — Containing specimen let- 
ters on all possible busmess topics, with appropriate answers. Forms, Agree* 
ments. Leases, F^missory Notes, Mortgages, JBonds, Receipts, and a host of 
other information every business man should know. Bound in boards, dotli 
back. 50cts« 

THE COMPLETE DEBATER.— Containing nine com. 
plete Debates, Outlines of Debates, and 108 Questions for Debate. The most 
TCrfect work of its kind published, and especially adapted to Literary and 
Debating Societies, aoo pp. Bound in boards, with doth backs. 50 cts« 

RITTER'S BOOK OF MOCK Ti^lALS.-An en. 

tiiely novel idea. The trials are very amusing take-oflts of actual scenes m 
court and daily life. Adapted to performance by amateurs or professionals. 
Paper cover, iS cents ; boards SO cts« 

DE VERE'S WIT, HUMOR, PATHOS, AND 

Parodies. — Being a naw and ort^tnai «X)Uection of the author's best 
efforts in the field of wit, humor, and pathos. These beautiful selections 
have been delivered by some of the great ** stars ^ of the ** profession," and 
no doubt the ** public " will be delighted to get those gems in such a compact 
form. Cloth. Price $1*00 

HOYLE'8 GAMES. — ^ new and complete authority on all 
games as played at this present time. It includes all the Card Games, Chess, 
Chedcers, Dominoes, Backgammon, Dice, Billiards, Base-Ball, and all other 
field games. The rules of all the games in this book are in accordance with 
the modern practice of experts in every case, and the rules are exi>ressed in 
dear language so as to be readily understood ; and where it is required, they 
are freely illustrated with descriptive diagrams. This is the best book foe 
settling disputes or wagers, being recognixi^i as the modem standard authority. 
Containing 500 pages. Bound in paper cover, 50 cents ; boards, 7^ 
cents ; cloth. $l.ffO 

BYRON'S MODERN BARTENDER'S C.UIOE. 

— ^A new and thoroughly reliable work on the correct method of nuxmg fancy 
• drinks, as they are served to-day at the prindpal Bar-rooms of New York and 
other leading cities of the Union. Handsome illustrated cover, 50 cents | . 
Bound in full cloth, gilt 75 ctat 

EX0EL8IOB PUBLISHING HOUSE^ 



