
641.5 

St221g 



compliments 






Rc.nd, McNally & Co., Printers ana Engravers, Chicago. 



p (14 T 7 © 






• •• 
















University of Illinois 
Library at 

Urbana-Champaign 

Bookstacks 

f 






f 



f 



THE 




« 



(G RANITE IRON WARE 



COOK BOOK. 




St. Louis Stamping Co , 



ST. LOUIS, MO. 



Branch Office: 57 Beelrman Street, NE¥ YORK. 

PRICE, 25 CENTS. 

* — as 



9 



9 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



PATENT GRANITE IRONWARE. 



TESTIMONIALS. 

New York, April 20th, 1877. 

I have examined the glazed ware, marked '‘Granite Iron- 
ware," patented May 30th, 1876, and made hy the St. Louis 
Stamping Company, and flud ttiat it does not contain anything 
injurious to health. 

1 have boiled in these glazed kettles various acids found in 
fruits, sour milk, etc., viz.: citric, lactic and acetic acids, and 
other substances used in culinary operations. I have also left 
these materials in the vessels for several days; in analyzing 
the same 1 lind them uncontaminated. 

In my opinion the “Granite Ironware" is not only safe and 
suited for the preparation of all articles of diet, but also for 
their preservation. I highly recommend the “Granite Ware" 
as wholesome, serviceable and durable. 

Yours respectfully, 

R OGdEN DOREMUS. M. P., LL. D. 
Prof. Chemistry and Toxicology , Bellevue Medical College, and 

Prof Chemistry and Ph ysic, College of the City of flew York. 



No. 4 State Street, Boston, April 23, 1877. 

Gentlemen: In the course of my recent investigations of 

enameled iron, I have analyzed several pieces of the Granite 
Ware found in the open market, and also some ot the Ware 
lately received by your agents here; and. as there is nothing 
present that is injurious, this Ware is perfectly safe for use in 
cooking, for drinking vessels and other purposes. 

Respectfully, 

S. DANA HAYS, 

Stale Assayer and Chemist of Massachusetts. 

St. Louis, June 1, 1877. 

St. Louis Stamping Co. —Gentlemen: As requested, I 
have made a careful examination and tests of several pieces of 
the “ Granite Ironware " manufactured by you, and failed to 
find the least trace of any injurious substance. The severity 
of these tests, and the manner in which the “Granite Iron- 
ware " has stood them, enables me to recommend it as a safe 
and durable article, and as admirably adapted to the use for 
which it is designed. 

Respectfully yours, 

W. B. POTTER, 

Professor of Chemistry , Washington University , St. Louis , Mo. 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



3 





TESTIMONIALS — continued. 

New Haven, Conn., April 14th, 1877. 
Gentlemen: At your request 1 have made a careful chemical 
examination of enameled goods made by the St. Louis Stamp- 
ing Company and used by your house in all your products 
requiring the use of enamels. In the St. Louis enamels 
marked u Granite Ironware, 11 1 find not a trace of any poison- 
ous or deleterious substance whatever. Vinegar, lemonade, 
or other vegetable acids, salt, and greasy substances, may be 
kept or cooked in vessels protected by the “ Granite Enamel, 11 
without the least injury to heahh. There is no reason why 
dangerous enamels should be made and sold; and the public 
will demand that only such safe enamels as the “ Granite, 11 so 
called, shall be offered in the market. 

B. SILLIMAN, 

State Chemist of Connecticut , and Prof, of Chemistry , Yale 
College , New Haven , Conn. 



University of Pennsylvania, ) 
West Philadelphia, July 10th, 1877. j 
I have made a thorough analysis of the enamel of the 
“ Granite Ironware 11 manufactured by the St. Louis Stamping 
Company, and have found it to be entirely free from lead, 
arsenic and other metals injurious to health. “The Granite 
Ironware 11 is admirably adapted for culinary and other domes- 
tic purposes. I have been using it in my own family since I 
first saw it at the Centennial Exhibition, about a year ago, and 
it has given the greatest satisfaction'. In my opinion, there is 
no article in the market which is superior to it, and none 
which combines to the same degree the advantages of glass 
with the strength of metal. F. A, GENTH, 

Professor of Chemistry. 



The Analytical Sanitary Institution, \ 

54 Holborn Viaduct, E. C., London, May 28th, 1878. f 
Having examined samples of the Granite Ironware. I have 
much pleasure in stating that the enamel with which the Ware 
is coated is absolutely free from lead arsenic or other injurious 
ingredients so frequently entering into the composition of the 
enamels at present in use. It possesses extraordinary hardness 
and elasticity, and is capable of withstanding the action of 
strong mineral or vegetable acids. It does not crack when 
strongly heated, and will bear the roughest treatment. The 
Granite Ironware is light, elegant, clean and everlasting. 

ARTHUR HILL HASSALL, M. D., 
Author of "'‘Food and its Adulterations etc. 



e 







GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 




“ Imperial ” Tea Pots. 
7 Sizes. 




“Belle ” Tea Pots. 
4 Sizes. 




“ Imperial ’’ Coffee 
Pots. 7 Sizes. 





Peerless Water 
Pitchers. 3 Sizes. 




Gem Water Pitchers. 
4 Sizes. 



4 




Convex Water 



Pitchers. 5 Sizes. 



* 



B 



B 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



5 



DINNERS. 



Persons invited to a dinner party should be of the same 
standing in society. They need not he acquaintances, yet they 
should be such as move in the same class. Good talkers and 
good listeners are equally invaluable at a dinner. Among 
your guests always have one or more musicians. This will add 
greatly to the entertainment before and after dinner. 



Invitations to dinner parties should be sent and answered by 
a messenger, except when distance is such as to make it incon- 
venient. Invitations should be issued from two to ten days in 
advance, in the name of the gentleman and lady of the house. 
They should be answered without delay, as it is essential that 
the host and hostess should know who are to be their guests. 

After the invitation is accepted, the engagement should not 
be lightly broken. 

Gentlemen can not be invited without their wives, unless it 
is a dinner given only for gentlemen. Ladies should not be 
invited without their husbands, when other ladies are invited 
with their husbands. Three out of one family are enough to be 
invited, unless it is a large dinner party. 

The paper used for issuing invitations upon, should be small 
note paper, or cards, with envelopes to match. 

FORM OF AN INVITATION TO DINNER. 

Mr. and Mrs. Moss request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. 
Miers ’ company at dinner on Wednesday, Nov. 16 , at 5 o'clock. 

An answer should be returned at onee. so that, if you do not 
accept, the hostess may make necessary changes in the ar- 
rangements. 

FORM OF AN ACCEPTANCE TO DINNER. 

Mr. and Mrs. Miers have much pleasure in accepting Mr. 
and Mrs. Moss' 1 invitation f or November 16. 



INVITATIONS TO DINNER PARTIES. 



B 



B 



Gvccnitc Ivon "Wav# Cook, Book. 



INVITATION DECLINED. 

Mr. and Mrs. Miers regret that the illness of their child (or 
whatever the cause may be) prevents them from having the 
pleasure of accepting Mr. and Mrs. Moss' invitation <o dinner 

Nov. 16. 

The cause for declining should always be stated. If it should 
become necessary to break the engagement, a note must be 
sent at once to the host and hostess. 



TIME. 

In cities, the best time is after business hours, or from five 
to eight o’clock. It may be an hour or two earlier in the 

country. 

It is obligatory upon you to be punctual at the hour men- 
tioned, and not too early. A hostess is not required to wait 
longer than fifteen minutes for a tardy guest. 






ENTERTAINMENT. 

The success of a dinner is readily judged by the manner in 
which conversation has been sustained. If a stream of talk has 
been kept up, it shows that the guests have been entertained. 

No one should monopolize the conversation. It is due your 
host and hostess that you do all in your power to enjoy your- 

self* 

SETTING THE TABLE. 

The table-cloth and napkins must be spotless. A centre- 
piece of flowers is a pretty ornament. A handsome vase filled 
with growing plants in bloom adds greatly to the appearance 
of the table. The flowers must be of delicate odors A va- 
riety of fruit tastefully arranged with green leaves and bright 
confectionery is always attractive. It is a pretty custom to 
place a little bouquet by the side of each lady’s plate, and o 
fold a bunch of flowers in the napkin of each gentleman, to e 
attached to the left lapel of the coat as soon as seats are taken 
at the table. Napkins, which should never be starched, are 




Granite Ivon Ware Cook Book. 7 



folded and laid upon the plates, with a small piece of bread or 
roll placed on the top. The dessert is placed on the table amidst 
the flowers and ferns. A small salt-cellar should be placed by 
each plate, also a small butter plate. The name of each guest, 
written upon a card and placed one on each plate, marks the 
seat assigned. 

NUMBER TO INVITE. 

There should not be less than six nor more than fourteen at 
a dinner. The host or hostess will then be able to designate to 
each gentleman the lady whom he is to conduct to the table ; 
but when the number exceeds this limit, it is a good plan to 
have the name of each couple written upon a card and inclosed 
in an addressed envelope and left on a tray, that the guests may 
select those which bear their names. If a gentleman finds upon 
hie card the name of a lady with whom he is unacquainted, he 
requests the host to present him immediately after he has 
spoken with the hostess; also to any member of the family 
with whom he is not acquainted. 

All the guests should secure introductions to the one for 
whom the dinner is given. 

GOING OUT TO DINNER. 

When dinner is announced, the host offers his right arm to 
the lady he is to escort to the table. The others follow arm- 
in-arm, the hostess being the last to leave the drawing-room. 
Age should take precedence in proceeding from the drawing- 
room to the dining-room. The host escorts the eldest lady or 
the greatest stranger, or, if there be a bride present, preced- 
ence is given to her, unless the dinner is given for another 
person, in which case he escorts the latter. 

The hostess is escorted either by the greatest stranger, or by 
some gentleman whom she wishes to place in the seat of honor, 
which is at her right. 

The host places, at his right, the lady whom he escorts. 

The seats of the host and hostess may be in the middle, at 
opposite sides of the table, or at opposite ends. Husbands 

* m 



rxr 



8 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



All 



should not escort their wives, nor brothers their sisters, 
guests stand until the hostess is seated. 

’ Ease of manner of the host and hostess, and quiet and sys- 
tematic movements on the part of attendants, are indispens- 
able. The servants commence in passing the dishes, one upon 
the right of the host and one upon the right of the hostess. 

The attendant places each dish in succession before the host 
and hostess (the soup, salad and dessert only being eerved by 
the hostess) with the pile of plates. Each plate is supplied, 
taken by the attendant on a small salver, and set before the 
guest from the left. Any second dish which belongs to the 
course is presented at the left of the guest, who helps himself. 
As a rule, the lady at the right of the host or the oldest lady 
should be served first. As soon as any one is done, his plate 
is promptly removed, and when all are done, the next course is 
served in the same way. All crumbs should be brushed from 
the cloth before the dessert is brought on. 

The finger bowls, which are brought in on the napkin on the 
dessert plate, and set off to the left of the plate, are used by 
dipping the fingers in lightly and drying them on the napkin. 
They should be half full of warm water with a bit of lemon 

floating in it. 

When all have finished dessert, the hostess gives the signal 
that dinner is ended by pushing back her chair, and the ladies 
repair to the drawing-room, the oldest leading, the youngest 
following last, and the gentlemen repairing to the library or 
smoking-room. In about half an hour tea is served in the 
drawing-room, with a cake-basket of crackers or little cakes. 
The gentlemen join the ladies, and after a little chat over their 

cups, all arc at liberty to leave. 

In preparing a dinner, a hostess should remember that a 
small variety cooked to a nicety, and served with grace, makes 
the most charming dinner. A sensible bill of fare is— soup, 
fl „h with one vegetable, a roast with one or two vegetables, 
and a salad and cheese, and a dessert . The carver should servo 



* 



5 < © 

Granite Iron Ware Cook "Book. 9 



meat as he cuts it ; should not fill the platter with hacked frag- 
ments. It is ill bred to help too abundantly, or to flood with 
gravies, which are disliked by many. 

Water should be poured at the right hand; everything else 
is served at the left. The hostess should continue eating until 
all guests have finished. Jellies and sauces are helped on the 
dinner plate, and not on side dishes. If there are two dishes 
of dessert, the host may serve the most substantial one. Fruit 
is served after pudding and pies, and coffee last. In winter, 
plates should be made warm before being brought to the 
table. 

The latest and most satisfactory plan for serving dinners, is 
the dinner a la Russe (the Russian style), all the food being 
placed upon a side table, and servants doing the carving and 
waiting. 

At a fashionable dinner soup is the first course. All should 
accept it, even if it is a kind they do not like, and know that 
they will not touch it. Soup should never be called for a second 
time. Take it noiselessly from the side of your spoon, and 
never tilt your soup plate for the last spoonful. 

After soup comes fish, which must be eaten with a fork in the 
right hand and a piece of bread in the left, unless you are pro- 
vided with fish knives. If you wish, you may decline fish, but 
it must not be called for a second time. 

The side dishes, which come after the soup and fish, must 
be eaten with the fork. The knife is used only for cutting 
meats and anything too hard for a fork. Never convey food to 
the mouth with the knife. 



Remove the knife and fork from your plate as soon as they 
are set before you, as the serving of an entire course is delayed 
by neglecting to do so. 




10 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



SOUPS. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

To one pint tomatoes canned, or four large raw ones, cut up 
fine, add one quart boiling water and let them boil. Then add 
one teaspoon of soda, when it will foam ; immediately add one 
pint of sweet milk, with salt, pepper and plenty of butter. 
When this boils add eight small crackers rolled fine, and serve. 
Equal to oyster soup. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One shank of beef, one large bunch of celery, one cup of rich 
cream. Make a good broth of a shank of beef, skim off the fat 
and thicken the broth with a little flour mixed with water. Cut 
into small pieces one large bunch of celery, or two small ones, 
boiling them in the soup till tender. Add a cup of rich cream 
with pepper and salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Pour one quart of boiling water into a skillet; then one 
quart of good rich milk; stir in one teacup of rolled cracker 
crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt to taste. When all 
come to a boil, add one quart of good fresh oysters; stir well, 
so as to keep from scorching; then add a piece of good sweet 
butter, about the size of an egg; let it boil up once; then 
remove from the fire immediately; dish up and send to table. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Shred two onions and fry brown in a half spoon of butter ; 
add a little mace, salt and pepper; then a spoonful or so of 
stock; rub a tablespoonful of flour smooth with a little butter 
and let fry with the onions; strain through a colander, then add 
more stock as desired; cut turnip, carrot and celery in fillets; 
add a few green peas; boil tender in a little water and add both 
water and vegetables to the soup. If wished, the flour can be 
left out, and it will make a clear, light-colored soup. In that 
case the onions should be cut in fillets and boiled with the veg- 
etables. 




83 - 



GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS 





Pieced Sauce Pan. 1 Size. 





Convex Sauce Pots. 



8 Sizes. 




Convex Covered Sauce 



Pots. 8 Sizes. 




Windsor Sauce Pots. 
10 Sizes. 




Strong Straight Sauce 
Pots. 10 Sizes. 



« 




12 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



SOUPS — CONTINUED. 

SWISS POTATO SOUP. 

Pare and slice six large potatoes and three small turnips. 
Put them to five pints of water. Boil five or six hours, until 
perfectly dissolved and of the consistency ol pea soup. If it 
boils away too fast fill up with boiling water. When thick 
enough add butter, pepper and salt. A small bit of salt pork, 
or a bone, or bit of lamb or veal and a small onion may be 
added to vary the soup, if desired. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Take four pounds of mutton— part of the leg is best— and add 
one gallon water, one teacupful of pearl barley, two carrots 
sliced, two turnips sliced, two onions cut small, three carrots 
grated, the white part of a cabbage chopped very small, and a 
small quantity of parsley. Season with pepper and salt. Let 
this boil very gently for three hours and a half, and at the din- 
ner table it will, most likely, by all who are fond of soups, be 
pronounced excellent. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil a pair of chickens with great care, skimming constantly 
and keeping them covered with water. When tender, take out 
the chicken and remove the bone. Put a large lump of butter 
into a spider, dredge the chicken-meat well with flour, and lay 
in the hot pan ; fry a nice brown, and keep hot and dry. Take 
a pint of the chicken water, and stir in two large spoonfuls of 
curry powder, two of butter and one of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt and a little cayenne; stir until smooth, then mix it with 
the broth in the pot. When well mixed, simmer five minutes, 
then add the browned chicken. Serve with rice. 



Remember, to make soup or 1 roth, put the meat and vegeta- 
bles in cold water. But if the meat is to be eaten, then the 
water must be boiling before the meat is put into the water. 
Same with fish and fowls. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 



13 



88 - 




fish. 

BROOK TROUT. 

If small, fry them with salt pork; if large, boil, and serve 
with drawn butter. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

To one teacup of milk, add one teacup of water; put it on 
the fire to scald, and when hot stir in a tablespoon of flour, 
previously wet with cold water; add two or three eggs ; season 
with salt and pepper, a little celery, vinegar and three table- 
spoons of butter. Boil four or five eggs hard, take off* the 
shells, and cut in slices, and lay over the iish. Then pour over 
the sauce a<ad serve. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Lay the fish open; put it in a dripping pan, with the back 
down; nearly cover with water; to one fish put two tablespoons 
salt; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one half-hour; dress 
with gravy, butter and pepper; garnish with sliced eggs. For 
sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoon 
of flour, one-half pint boiling water; boil a few minutes, and 
add three hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 



BAKED FISH. 

Let the fi^h remain in cold water, slightly salted, for an hour 
before it is time to cook it; place the gridiron on a dripping 
pan with a little hot water in it and bake in a hot oven; just 
before it is done, butter it well on the top, and brown it nicely. 
The time of baking depends upon the size of the fish. A small 
fish will bake in about half an hour and a large one in an hour. 
They are very nice when cooked as above and served with a 
sauce which is made from the gravy in the dripping pan, to 
which is added a tablespoon of catsup and another of 
some pungent sauce and the juice of a lemon. Thicken with 
brown flour moistened with a litt le cold water. Garnish hand- 
somely with sprigs of parsley and currant jelly. 









14 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 




SHELL FISH. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Stew the oysters ; take the broth and allow the yolk of one 
egg to every dozen of oysters; turn off the broth and add the 
eggs ; let it come to a boil ; then turn back the oysters and fill 
the crust. 

OYSTER DRESSING. 

One quart of milk; putin kettle on the stove; take nearly 
half a cup of butter; salt and pepper to taste ; break in crackers 
enough to thicken. When hot put in one pint of oysters, stir 
well and then it is ready for use. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

In all cases, unless shell oysters, wash and drain; mix half a 
cup of butter and a tablespoon of corn starch; put with the 
oysters in a granite sauce pan; stir until thevboil; add two 
cups of cream or milk; salt to taste; do not use the liquor of 
the oysters in either stewing or escaloping. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

For a quart can, drain the oysters dry as possible; put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg into your spider, and let it get 
quite brown; put in your oysters; as soon as they commemce 
to cook add as much more butter, which has been previously 
well mixed with a teaspoonful of flour; let it cook a moment 
and add one egg, beaten with a teaspoonful of cream ; let this 
cook a moment and pour all over toasted bread. 

OYSTERS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon the top 
of a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven; open the shells 
with an oyster knife, taking care to lose none of the liquor, 
and serve quickly on hot plates, with toast. Oysters may 
be steamed in the shells, and are excellent eaten in the same 
manner. 






Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 




15 




SHELL FISH — continued. 

ROASTED OYSTERS. 

Take oysters in the shell, wash the shells clean and lay them 
on hot coals; when they are done they will begin to open. 
Remove the upper shell, and serve the oysters in the lower 
shell, with a little melted butter poured over each. 

ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 

Butter a pudding dish, roll crackers very fine; put a layer of 
crackers, then a layer of oysters; season with salt and pepper; 
put small bits of butter over the oysters; fill the dish nearly 
full, having crackers on top ; pour in sweet milk enough to soak 
the crackers ; bake nearly an hour. If too dry when baking 
add a little more milk and butter. 

TO FRY OYSTERS. 

Use the largest and best oysters ; lay them in rows upon a 
clean cloth and press another upon them, to absorb the mois- 
ture; have ready several beaten eggs, and in another dish some 
finely crushed crackers; in the frying pan heat enough butter 
to entirely cover the oysters; dip the oysters first into the eggs, 
then into the crackers, rolling it or them over that they may 
become well encrusted; drop into the granite frying pan and 
fry quickly to a light brown. Serve dry and let the dish be 
warm. 

OYSTERS. 

Drain the liquor from the oysters. Rub a tablespoonful of 
flour into a quarter of a pound of butter for each hundred 
oysters; a little mace or nutmeg, if agreeable; six whole white 
peppers; salt to taste. Bring the liquor to a boil, then add the 
oysters, and as soon as they boil up once add the butter and 
flour; stir constantly, and when boiling add half a cup of rich 
cream to every hundred oysters. Stir all well together, and 
serve as'soon as cooked enough, which will be after adding the 
cream, as soon as it boils up once thoroughly. 







16 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 

TO BROIL QUAIL OR WOODCOCK. 

After dressing, split down the back, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and lay them on a gridiron, the inside down; broil 
slow at first; serve with cream gravy. 

TO ROAST WILD DUCK OR TEAL. 

After dressing, soak them over night in salt and water, to 
draw out the fishy taste. Then in the morning put them into 
fresh water, changing several times before roasting. Stuff or 
not, as desired. Serve with currant jelly. 

CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil your chickens until they are tender and season highly; 
line deep pie plates with a rich crust; take the white meat and 
a little of the dark off from the bones; put into the pie plates; 
pour the gravy over the chicken, add butter and a little flour; 
cover with the crust; bake from half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and water, which 
change several times; roll each piece in fiour; fry in very hot 
lard or butter; season with salt and pepper; fry parsley with 
them also. Make a gravy of cream seasoned with salt, pepper 
and a little mace, thicken with a little flour in the pan in which 
the chickens were fried, pouring off the lard. Use a granite 
iron fry pan. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 

Cut up the chickens and put on the fire in a granite kettle 
with cold water sufficient to cover; add a little salt or salt pork 
sliced, if you like; boil until tender, and cut up and put in a 
part of a head of celery. When tender, have ready hot baking- 
powder biscuits broken open and laid on a platter; on this 
place the chicken ; thicken the gravy with flour moistened with 
water or milk, and pour it over the chicken and biscuits. ^ If 

m —m 



» 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



17 






POULTRY AND GAME —continued. 

you prefer, use a good-sized piece of butter to season, instead 
of the salt pork. Oysters are an addition. 

BROILED YEN ISON STEAK. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire, and when sufficiently done pour 
over two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly melted with a piece of 
butter. Pepper and salt to season. Eat while hot, on hot 
plates. 

TO ROAST WILD FOWL. 

The flavor is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, 
salt and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much 
less dressing than tame. They should be served of a fine color 
and a rich brown gravy. To take off the fishy taste which wild 
fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt and hot water into the 
dripping pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with 
this, then take away the pan and baste constantly with butter. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES AND QUAILS. 

Clean nicely, using a little soda in the water in which they 
are washed; rinse and dry them, and then fill them with dress- 
ing, sewing them up nicely, and binding down the legs and 
wings with cords. Put them in a steamer over hot water, and 
let them cook until just done. Then place them in a pan with 
a little butter; set them in the oven and baste them frequently 
with melted butter until of a nice brown. They ought to brown 
nicely in about fifteen minutes. Serve them on a platter, with 
sprigs of parsley alternating with currant jelly. 



The more gently meat boils, the more tender it will become. 
Allow twenty minutes for boiling each pound of fresh meat. 

Roast meats require a brisk fire. Baste often. Twenty min- 
utes is required for roasting each pound of fresh meat. 



€ 






m 




* 



GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 




Rice or Milk Boilers. 
6 Sizes. 




Rice or Milk Boilers. 
4 Sizes. 








Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 19 



MEATS. 



BOILED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Half boil a tongue, then stew it with a sauce made of a 
little broth, flour, parsley, one small onion, one small carrot, 
salt and pepper, and one can of tomatoes cooked and 
strained. Lay the tongue on a dish and strain the sauce 
over it. 

STAFFORDSHIRE BEEFSTEAK. 

Beat them a little with a rolling pin, flour and season, then 
fry with s sliced onion of a fine light brown ; lay the steaks into 
a stew pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will 
serve for sauce; stew them very gently half an hour and add a 
spoonful of catsup before serving. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Take a piece of beef four or five inches thick, and with a 
small knife make small holes entirely through it at small dis- 
tances apart. Then take strips of fat salt pork, roll them in 
pepper and cloves, lay on a pan, cover closely, and put over in 
a steamer, and steam for three hours. When done thicken the 
gravy in the pan with a little flour. This is excellent when eaten 
as cold meat. 

HOW TO COOK DRIED BEEF. 

Heat milk and water (about half of each), and thicken with 
a beaten egg and a little flour; when nicely boiled, add the beef, 
which, of course, should be sliced as thin as possible, and im- 
mediately remove from the fire, as the less it is cooked the 
better; if the beef is very salty, it will need freshening in a 
little hot water before going into the gravy, but if not it will 
season it just right without freshening. 



boiled Ham. 

Soak in water over night. Next morning wash hard with a 
coarse cloth or stiff brush, and put on to boil with plenty of 
cold water. Allow a quarter of an hour to each pound in cook- 







Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 





MEATS — CONTINUED. 

ing, and do not boil too fast. Do not remove the skin until 
cold; it will come off easily and cleanly then, and the juices 
are better pre- erved than when it is stripped hot. Send to table 
with dots of pepper or dry mustard on the top, a tuft of fringed 
paper twisted about the shank, and garnished with parsley. Cut 
very thin in carving. 

SHEEP’S BRAINS, ROASTED OR BAKED. 

Four or six brains will be required for a dish. Prepare the 
brains as for stewing, and procure as many slices of bacon as 
there are brains. After they have been boiled and thrown into 
cold water, drain and dry them perfectly; brush over with oil, 
and roll them in highly seasoned bread crumbs. Put them to 
the bacon before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake in a well- 
heated oven, burning them about that they may be equally 
cooked, and basting them occasionally. When they are nicely 
browned, take them up. Lay the slices of bacon on toast, put 
the brains upon them, and send sharp sauce or tomato sauce 
to table in a tureen. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes. 
Probable cost, 50 cents. Sufficient for six or seven persons. 

FRENCH DAUBE. 

If beef is poor and tough it is made palatable by this French 
mode of cooking it. Season a thick steak with salt and pep- 
per, and fry slowly in a little lard. Turn it often, so that both 
sides may be cooked alike and equally browned. When well 
browned add a small quantity of water, half a sliced onion, 
some minced parsley and thyme, thicken with a spoonful of 
flour, cover close and leave it for an hour on the back of the 
stove, where it may simmer slowly; after this has been done 
add a pound can of tomatoes, then let the daube cook about 
two hours, or until the meat is ready to fall to pieces. A good 
sized porcelain-lined pot should be used in preparing this dish. 
We have never tried it, but are assured it is an excellent way 
t o dispose of poor meat and make it quite acceptable. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 




* 



21 



VEGETABLES 



ENGLISH POTATO BALLS 



Boil some potatoes very dry; mash them as smoothly as 
possible; season well with salt and pepper; warm them with 
an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes, and a few spoon- 
fuls of good cream; let them cool a little, roll them into balls; 
sprinkle over them some crushed vermicelli or macaroni, and 
fry them a light brown. 



Take small ones, wash and scrape, put them in a sauce pan of 
cold water, bring them to a boil, drain, wipe with a clean 
cloth. Put potatoes and two tablespoons of butter in the frying 
pan and cook twenty minutes; watch them, and when they 
commence to brown, turn them occasionally, so as to brown 
alike on all sides. Then strain off the butter, sprinkle with 
salt, and serve in a hot dish. 



Take eight large potatoes, boiled and mashed fine, one table- 
spoonful of butter, the yolks of two raw eggs, a little salt; stir 
all together over the fire, then set it away to cool. When quite 
cold, roll it on a board with flower to keep from sticking. Make 
it in cake or any form you wish. Take the white of the egg, 
beat with a little water, dip in the potato and roll in bread or 
cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

TO MAKE A TIMBALE OF POTATOES. 

Cook, drain, mash, and pass through a fine sieve two quarts 
ol Irish potatoes ; put this in a saucepan, with six ounces of 
butter, two whole eggs, the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, nut- 
meg and a little sugar; have a plain two quart copper timbale 
mould, well buttered and sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs ; 
put the preparation in it, with a little more bread crumbs, and 
bits of butter on the top ; bake for half an hour in a moderately 



FRIED NEW POTATOES 



POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE 




* 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 







VEGETABLES —continued. 

hot oven ; before serving pass the blade of a knife between the 
potatoes and the mould, turn over carefully, and in a few min- 
utes take the mould off and serve. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, wash, and put into boiling water with a little salt; 
when boiled tender, drain and season them, and either dress 
with cream, or large lump of butter, and let simmer for a 
few moments. 

TOMATOES SCALLOPED. 

Stew and season a quart of tomatoes to your taste ; add butter, 
a little chopped onion, and salt and pepper to the taste; then 
grated bread crumbs till a stiff batter. Pour into a buttered 
pudding dish— strew the top thickly with crumbs, and bake 
twenty minutes. This is nice as a breakfast dish or a dinner 
vegetable. Take then some scalloped tomatoes, when left over, 
make into round croquettes, and fry a nice brown, and you have 
another dish. Or take the raw tomatoes, stew a few moments, 
well seasoned, and stir in beaten eggs, in proportion of three 
to a quart, and bake, and you have still another variety. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Break apart and wash very carefully three heads of good 
celery; cut off the green portions and leave the outside stalks 
to season soups. Cut the celery into pieces an inch long, and 
put to just enough boiling water to cover them; add salt to the 
water before putting in the celery ; boil slowly. When tender, 
drain and place neatly on a vegetable dish, sprinkling over it 
some black pepper; pour off part of the water, but save it, in 
case of need, till the stew is completed. Wet into a smooth 
paste a teaspoonful of corn starch and add the same quantity of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter and the same of rich cream; 
stir this into the water, over the fire, till it thickens, and then 
pour over the celery. If too thick add some of the water left 
over; if too thin for your wishes, use more corn starch after 
making it into a thin paste. 

gg 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 





BREAD. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint sweet milk, one pint sour milk, one pint flour, two 
pints meal, one tablespoonful syrup, one teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful soda. Steam three hours. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Three pints of Graham flour, one pint of wheat flour, one cup 
yeast, half cup molasses, and a teaspoonful salt. Mix with 
lukewarm water as stiff as you can stir with a spoon. Let it 
rise over night and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

RICE BREAD. 

Boil one pound of whole rice in milk enough to dissolve all 
the grains, adding it, boiling, as it is absorbed. Have four 
pounds of sifted flour in a pan, and into this pour the rice and 
milk, adding salt and a wineglassful (large) of brewer’s yeast. 
Knead, and set to rise till light. Form in loaves, and bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One heaping quart of rye flour, one heaping quart of Indian 
meal, one heaping quart of Graham flour, scanty quart of milk, 
scanty quart of warm water, one coffee-cup of molasses, one 
coffee-cup of home-made yeast, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one dessert spoonful of salt; grease an iron kettle, pour in the 
mixture, and bake six or seven hours in a slow oven. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

Seven cups graham, one cup thick sweet cream (or butter), 
one pint sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder; rub the 
baking-powder into the flour; add the cream with a little 
salt, then the milk; mix well, and roll as thin as soda crackers; 
cut in any shape; bake quickly; then leave about the stove for 
a few hours to dry thoroughly. 



*■ 




24 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 



BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC 



FRENCH BISCUIT. 



Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one egg (or the whites 
of two), half a cup of sour milk, half a teaspoon of soda, flour 
to roll ; sprinkle with sugar. 



Make one pound flour, the yolk of an egg and some milk 
into a stiff paste. Knead it till smooth, roll it thin, and cut it 
into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. 



To three cupfuls of buttermilk add one of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, a dessert 
spoonful of salt, and flour enough to make the dough just stiff 
enough to admit of being rolled out into biscuits. 



One pint milk, yeast, either home-made or baker’s, one table- 
spoonful melted butter, and three tablespoonfuls of sugar ; stir 
in flour enough to make as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. 
Let it rise over night, and the next morning drop it into well- 
buttered gem-pans or biscuit pans. Bake half an hour in as 
hot an oven as can be used without scorching. 



One quart of flour, one teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one tablespoonful lard, 
one pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and baking pow- 
der, rub in the lard cold; add the milk, and form into a smooth, 
consistent dough. Flour the board, turn out the dough, roll it 
out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, cut with 
small, round cutter; lay them close together on a greased 
baking tin, wash over with milk; bake in good hot oven twenty 
minutes. 



WASHINGTON BISCUIT 



BUTTERMILK BISCUITS 



RYE BISCUITS 



TEA BISCUIT. 



© 





GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 




"Windsor Preserving Tea Kettles. 4 Sizes. Seamless Convex 
Kettles. 10 Sizes. Kettles. 8 Sizes. 




Seamless Stove Kettles. Tea Kettles. 6 Sizes. Stove Pots. 

4 Sizes . 4 Sizes. 




Deep Preserving Tea Kettles. Lipped Preserving 

Kettles. 8 Sizes. 4 Sizes. Kettles. 12 Sizes. 



25 







26 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 



BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. — continued. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

One quart milk, three-fourths cup lard or butter (half and 
half is good), three-fourths cup yeast, two tablespoonfuls white 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, flour to make a soft dough; mix 
over night, warming the milk slightly and melting the butter; 
in the morning roll out into a sheet three-quarters of an inch 
thick; cut into round cakes; set them closely together in a 
pan; let them rise twenty minutes; bake twenty minutes. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One pint of water, one-half cup of shortening (half lard and 
half butter), one teaspoonful of salt, heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Sift your flour into the mixing pan; mix the 
the baking powder and salt into the centre part of flour the 
same as if for pie crust; mix as little flour as possible, just 
enough to be able to roll them nicely ; scarcely knead them at 
all; bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. This recipe mak3S 
eighteen biscuits. 

DELICIOUS LIGHT TEA BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of best sifted flour, one pint of sweet milk, in 
which melt one-quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoon of 
salt in the milk, one teacup of fresh yeast. Make a hole in the 
centre, pour in the yeast (well shaken), stir diligently with a 
fork. Let the milk, etc., be just blood-warm (no more), then 
knead as bread. Cut it across, through and through, with a 
knife. Let it rise six or seven hours, as it may require. Take 
from the pan. knead it well, cut in small cakes and put to rise 
in pan an hour or more before baking. This recipe, with 
additional sugar and suitable spices, makes excellent family 
doughnuts. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

Rub in two quarts of flour, one small teacup of lard, and the 
usual quantity of salt. Mix it up with just enough water to 
make a stiff dough, and beat from half an hour to an hour. It 



*■ 







Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 27 



BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. - continued. 

should be worked until the blisters are constantly snapping 
and the dough i > waxy. After the dough is once mixed there 
should be no more flour worked in. When it is all right, if 
you break off a piece quickly, it snaps off short, and in 
cutting a piece off with a sharp knife the holes or pores where 
you have cut it are small and of an even size. Now break off 
the dough in small pieces, and work each piece into a nice 
biscuit shape, and press it with the lower part of the thumb 
where it joins the hand to make the indentation; prick, and 
bake quickly in a very hot oven. The biscuit should be a 
light brown in the centre of the top and on the bottom, but 
not all over, and not hard. 

CHARLOTTE’S MUFFINS. 

One quart flour, three eggs, white and yolks beaten separate- 
ly, three cups milk, a little salt. Beat thoroughly and bake 
quickly. 

MUFFINS. 

A quart of milk, two eggs, butter the size of an egg melted 
in the milk, a pound of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar and one of soda. Bake in gem-pans in a quick oven. 

SWEET BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

Sift two teaspoonfuls of baking powder with one quart of 
flour ; add one cup of sugar ; rub into the flour a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, then stir in one pint of milk. Beat free from 
lamps to a smooth batter. Bake in muffin rings on the top of 
the stove or in gem irons in the oven. 

MUFFINS. 

One and a half pints new milk, one egg, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, one 
cake yeast (or, better, half cup home-made yeast) ; mix with 
flour until a very stiff batter is formed; leave in a warm place 
during the night and bake in the morning in rings. 




28 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



» 



■* 



BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC- — continued. 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 

Take two cups of fine hominy boiled and cold; beat it smooth; 
stir in three cups of sour milk, half a cup of melted butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar; 
then add three eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water, and one large cup of flour; bake 
quickly. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One pint corn meal, one pint flour, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, one 
tablespoonful lard, two eggs, one large pint of milk. Sift to- 
gether com meal, flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder; rub 
in the lard cold, add the eggs beaten and the milk; mix into a 
batter of the consistence of cup cake; fill cold muffin cans, 
carefully greased, two-thirds full, and bake in hot oven fif- 
teen minutes. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One pint of milk, one small cup of home-made yeast, (you 
can try the bakers 1 ,) flour enough to make a stiff batter ; raise 
overnight; in the morning add one egg, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and flour enough to make it stiff to roll. Mix it well 
and let it rise, then knead it again (to make it fine and white,) 
roll out, cut with a round tin and fold over, put them in a pan 
and cover very close. Set them in a warm place until they are 
very light, bake quickly, and you will have delicious rolls. 

TEA ROLLS. 

The following will be found a good recipe for rolls: Two 
quarts of flour, into which rub a large teaspoonful of lard, one 
pint of cold boiled milk, one-quarter of a cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of yeast; make a hole in the flour, pour in the liquid 
and let it rise over night; in the morning knead, and let it rise 
until noon; then knead and roll out, cut out with a round 
cutter, and butter one-half ; turn the other half over on to it, 
and let it rise until tea time; bake in a quick oven. 

© © 






Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



29 



* 



BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. — continued. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

One quart flour, Iialf teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one tablespoonful lard, one pint milk. Sift 
together flour, salt, and baking powder; rub in the lard cold; 
add the milk, and mix into a smooth dough in the bowlj 
easily to be handled without sticking to the hands and board. 
Flour the board, turn it out, and give it a quick turn or two to 
equalize it; then roll it out with the rolling pin to the thick- 
ness of half an inch, cut it out with a large round cutter, fold 
one-half over on the other by doubling it, lay them on a greased 
baking sheet without touching, wash them over with a little 
milk to glaze them, and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

POP-OVERS. 

One cupful of milk, one egg, one cupful of flour, and a little 
salt. Beat well and put a tablespoonful of the batter in very 
small tin pans. Bake quickly, and eat immediately. 

RUSK. 

One pint of milk, one teacupful of yeast, mix it thin; when 
light add twelve ounces of sugar, ten ounces of butter, four 
eggs, flour sufficient to make it as stiff as bread. When risen 
again, mould and spread it on tin. 

RUSK. 

Take a piece of bread-dough large enough to fill a quart 
bowl, one teacupful of melted butter, one egg, one teaspoonful 
of salaratus; knead quite hard, roll out thin, lap it together, 
roll to the thickness of a thin biscuit, cut out with a biscuit 
mould, and set it to rise in a warm place. From twenty to 
thirty minutes will generally be sufficient. Bake them and dry 
thoroughly through, and you will have an excellent rusk to 
eat with your coffee. You can make them with hop yeast, and 
sweeten them, too, if you desire. Milk yeast may be used. 




30 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



*• 



* 



ENTREES. 

DEVILED BEEF. 

Take slices of cold roast beef, lay them on hot coals, and 
broil; season with pepper and salt, and serve while hot, with a 
small lump of butter on each piece 

YEAL COLLOPS. 

Cut veal from the leg or other lean part into pieces the size 
of an oyster. Have a seasoning of pepper, salt and a little mace 
mixed, rub some over each piece; then dip in egg, then into 
cracker crumbs, and fry as you do oysters. They both look and 
taste like oysters. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take mutton chops, cover well with water, and let them 
come to a boil; pour this off and add more water; then a lump 
of butter the size of an egg, two tablespoonsfuls of flour, one 
teacupful of milk, season; potatoes, and two small onions. 
Boil until the potatoes are done. 

BARBECUED HAM. 

Cut your raw ham in slices; soak in scalding water for half 
an hour; then lay the slices flat in a frying pan, pepper each, 
and spread on each one-fourth teaspoon of made mustard. Pour 
in vinegar in proportion of half a teaspoonful to a slice ; fry 
quickly, turning over. When done, take out and serve on a 
dish; add to the gravy, half a glass of wine, and a teaspoon of 
sugar; boil up once and pour over the meat. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

One and one-half pounds nice corned beef, boiled tender and 
chopped fine; one third more potatoes when chopped than 
meat; three large onions, sliced fine and browned in butter, 
and when tender add the meat and potatoes, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper ; enough water to moisten. A small red 
pepper chopped fine is a great improvement It is good without 
onions also, and milk is better than water to moisten. 





©■ 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 



31 



« 



ENTREES — continued. 

HAM TOAST. 

Mix with one tablespoonful of finely-chopped or grated bam, 
the beaten-up yolk of an egg, and a little cream and pepper ; 
heat over the fire, and then spread the mixture either on hot 
buttered toast, or on slices of bread fried quite crisp in butter ; 
serve very hot. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak over night one pound of beans in clear water; in the 
morning parboil the beans, and at the same time, in another 
dish, parboil a piece of salt pork about three inches long and 
wide and thick; drain off the water from the beans and pork; 
put both together in a deep pan with the pork at the top; 
season with one tab espoonful of molasses, and bake for sev- 
eral hours ; add a little water when they are put in to bake. 

LAMB STEWED WITH PEAS. 

Cut the scrag or breast of lamb in pieces, and put in a stew- 
pan, with just water enough to cover it. Cover the pan and let 
it simmer or stew for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add 
a tablespoon salt and a quart of shelled peas. Cover the stew- 
pan, and let them stew for half an hour. Mix a tablespoon of 
flour with a quarter pound butter and stir with the stew. Let 
it simmer for ten minutes. Serve with new potatoes boiled; 
add a little mace and pepper, if you like these flavors. 

VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Take very fine minced veal, moisten it with cream and a 
beaten egg; season with salt, sweet marjoram and a little 
pounded mace ; form into small cones either by hand or in a 
wine glaes; crumb the outside and fry, or else set in the oven 
and bake, basting frequently. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 



Boil half a pound of rice till quite soft and dry, mix with it a 
tablespoonful of grated cheese, with a small teaspoonful of 




GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 




Shallow Stew Pans. 4 Sizes. Colanders. 4 Sizes. 





Beaded Strong Sauce Pans. 6 Sizes. 








» 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



33 



ENTREES — continued. 



powdered mace, and sufficient butter to moisten it. Take a 
portion the size of a hen’s egg, and shape it into the form of a 
pear or egg. Brush over with yolk of egg, and roll in cracker 
or bread crumbs. Fry these croquettes in boiling lard. Very 
good may be made without the cheese, substituting the yolks 
of several eggs with the addition of a little more butter, when 
they may also be fried, if you choose, in little round' fiat 
cakes. 



Use cold roast beef, chop it fine, season with pepper and salt, 
add one-third the quantity of bread crumbs, and moisten with 
a little milk; have your hands floured, rub the meat into balls, 
dip it into beaten egg, then into fine pulverized cracker, and 
fry in butter; garnish with parsley. 



Take cold veal, chicken, or sweat-breads, a little of each, or 
separately, cut very fine a little fat and lean of ham, half the 
quantity of the whole of bread crumbs, two eggs, butter the 
size of an egg, pepper, salt, and a little mustard. Knead like 
sausage meat, adding a little cream; form in any shape, dip in 
egg, and then roll in cracker crumbs ; fry in lard until a light 
brown. Dry them in the oven. Celery or mushrooms are an 
improvement. 



One cold, boiled chicken, chopped fine; then take a pint of 
sweet milk, and when the milk is boiled, stir into it two large 
tablespoonsful of flour, made thin in a little cold milk ; after 
the flour is well cooked with the milk, put in a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, add salt and cayenne pepper; stir all well 
into the chicken; roll up with your hand, and dip first into an 
egg beaten up, then into crackers rolled fine, and fry in hot 
hot tallow (fresh tallow, half and half lard, is very nice). 



MEAT CROQUETTES. 



CROQUETTE. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 





2 






34 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



ENTREES — continued. 

SWISS ME IT OMELETTES. 

A good waj r to use cold meats. Cold meat chopped fine with 
raisins, allspice, nutmeg, salt, lemon peel and juice. Add one 
egg, one teaspoonful sugar, cloves. The above mixture is the 
middle of the omelettes. Three eggs, one pint milk, two tea- 
cupfuls flour; make the batter thin. Fry in a little lard, put a 
spoonful of the chopped meat in the centre and fold the batter 
around it once. 

BEEF OMELETTE. 

Four pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped fine; six 
eggs beaten together; five or six soda crackers rolled fine; little 
butter and suet, pepper, salt and sage, if you choose; make 
two loaves, roll in cracker; bake about an hour; slice when 

cold. „ 

TOMATO OMELETTE. 

One quart of tomatoes, chopped finely (after the skin is re- 
moved), and put into a sauce-pan with two finely-chopped 
onions, a little butter, salt and pepper, one cracker pounded 
finely, cover tight, and let it simmer about an hour ; beat five 
eggs to a froth; have your griddle hot; grease it well ; stir 
your eggs into the tomato, beat together, and pour into the 
griddle; brown on one side, fold, and brown on the other. To 
be served hot. 

OYSTER OMELETTE. 

Allow for every six large oysters or twelve small ones, one 
egg, remove the hard part and mince the rest very fine ; take 
the yolks of eight eggs and whites of four, beat till very light, 
then mix in the oysters, season and beat up all thoroughly; put 
into a skillet a gill of butter, let it melt; when the butter boils, 
skim it and turn in the omelette, stir until it stiffens, fry light 
brown; when the under side is brown, turn on to a hot platter. 
If wanted the upper side brown, hold a red-hot shovel over it. 



W 



* 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 35 



PUDDINGS. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Rub half a cup of butter and one cup of sugar to a cream ; 
add the beaten white of an egg, and one cup of strawberries 
thoroughly mashed. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

One pound sugar sifted, one of chocolate chopped very fine ; 
mix together; beat the white of an egg, and stir in your choco- 
late and sugar; continue to beat until stiff paste; sugar your 
paper, drop them on it, and bake in a slow oven. 

SARATOGA PUDDING. 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of corn starch in one quart cold milk. 
Stir until it boils. When cool, stir in two tablespoonfuls white 
sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Put in a 
large pudding-dish, place in a pan of water, bake one and a 
half hours. 

Sauce. —One cup sugar, half cup butter, the yolks of two 
eggs, one glass wine. Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add 
eggs and half the wine. Put the dish in boiling water, stir ten 
minutes, add the rest of the wine, and serve. 

RHUBARB PUDDING. 

Line your pudding-dish with slices of bread and butter, cover 
with cut up rhubarb, strewed with sugar, then slices of bread 
and butter, and so on alternately until your dish is full, having 
the rhubarb and sugar on top ; cover with a plate and bake half 
an hour. Eat it warm. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-fourth pound of figs chopped fine, one-fourth pound 
bread-crumbs, one-fourth pound sugar (brown), one-fourth 
pound suet, one-fourth pound candied lemon peel and citron, 
one nutmeg, and five eggs ; mix thoroughly, put into a mould, 
and boil or steam four hours. 




36 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

• PLUM PUDDING. 

One pint chopped suet, one pint sour apples, one pint raisins, 
one pint currants, one-half pint sugar, one-half pint sweet 
milk, one cup of citron; heat eight eggs and mix with the 
above, and add sufficient flour to make it stick together ; boil 
three hours in a cloth bag. Serve with brandy sauce. 

FROSTED LEMON PUDDING. 

Take a pint of bread or cake crumbs, a quart of milk, the 
juice and grated peel of a lemon, the yolcs of three eggs, and 
sweeten to the taste. When baked, cover over with jelly, 
make a frosting of the whites of the eggs and sugar, pour over 
the top, and set in the oven a few minutes to brown. 

MARTEN PUDDING. 

One teaspoon of salt, one cup suet, one cup milk, one cup 
sugar, three cups flour, two or three eggs, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants, one-fourth lb. citron, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar or baking powder; boil steadily for two 
hours; it can then stand back and simmer for any lengtn of 
time you choose to leave it. 

apple tapioca pudding. 

One cup of tapioca soaked over night in six cups of water; 
next morning add about six large tart apples, chopped very 
fine, (or more, according to the size,) then one cup of white 
sugar; bake slowly about four hours; to be eaten either warm 
or cold, with cream. Very delicate for invalids. Or you can 
pour the tapioca over whole cored apples. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One cup of sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; two eggs, 
one cup sweet milk; three cups flour, or enough to make a 
tolerably stiff batter; one-half teaspoon of soda; one teaspoon 
of cream tartar, sifted with the flour; one teaspoon of salt. 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



37 



PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, beat in the yolks, then the 
milk and soda, the salt and the beaten whites, alternately with 
the flour. Bake in a buttered mould; turn out upon a dish; 
cut in slices, and eat with liquid sauce. This is simple, but 
very nice pudding. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two quarts of milk, hall' a teacup of rice, a little less than a 
teacup of sugar, the same quantity of raisins, a teaspoon of 
cinnamon or allspice ; wash the rice and put it with the rest 
of the ingredients into the milk; bake rather slowly frcm two 
to three hours; stir two or three times the first hour of baking. 
If properly done, this pudding is delicious. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons sugar, four tablespoons 
cornstarch, two and a half tablespoons chocolate; scald the 
milk over boiling water; dissolve the corn starch in a little 
scalded milk, and before it thickens add the chocolate dissolved 
in boiling water; stir until sufficiently cooked. Use with 
cream, or sauce of butter and sugar stirred to a cream. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half package Coxe’s gelatine; pour over it a cup of cold 
water and add one and one-half cups of sugar; when soft, add 
one cup boiling water, juice of one lemon and the whites of 
four well beaten eggs ; beat all together until very light ; put in 
glass dish and pour over it custard made as follows: One pint 
milk, yolks of four eggs and grated rind of one lemon; boil. 
Splendid 

PUFF PUDDING. 

One cup sour cream, soda and salt as for biscuit; stir in flour 
till stiff as you can stir; then spread in a two quart pudding- 
pan, set in the oven and let it brown; take three nice tart 
apples, stewed smooth; add one tablespoonful of butter, one- 




© — * 

38 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

half cup sugar, yolk of one egg; put the mixture in the pudding 
pan and return to the oven: when done, beat the white of an 
egg in two tablespoons of sugar; season to taste, then return 
to oven and let the top brown again, To be eaten with sauce 
or cream. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Beat together half a pint of cream, an ounce and a half of 
sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat the whites stiff, and stir in the last thing— stirring lightly. 
Sprinkle some fine crumbs of stale bread over a well-buttered 
plate, about the thickness of common pastry. Pour in the 
beaten eggs, cream and sugar, cover the top with more fine 
bread crumbs, and bake. 

BREEZE PUDDING. 

Dissolve one-half a box of gelatine in a pint of boiling water; 
add two cupfuls of sugar and the juice of two lemons ; after this 
has become cool (not cold), break into it the whites of three 
eggs; beat all to a stiff froth; make a soft custard with the 
yolks of the eggs, adding three other and a quart of milk; pour 
the whites into moulds, and, when ready for use, turn them out, 
pouring the custard over. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

A quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls corn starch. Mix the 
starch with cold water, and stir into the boiling milk. Mix six 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar with the yolks of five eggs and 
pour into the starch. Put into a pudding dish, and bake. Beat 
the whites of five eggs with six tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
flavor with vanilla; drop with a spoon on the oudding, and 
brown slightly in the oven. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew pan, with 
half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity of butter, 

* — 8E 




» 



m 



GKANITE IKON KITCHEN GOODS. 




Seamless Water 
Buckets, with Foot. 
7 Sizes. 




Seamless Covered 
Buckets. 8 Sizes 




Lipped Water Bucket. 
1 Size. 





Seamless Water 
Buckets. 7 Sizes. 



Wine Cooler. 
1 Size. 




Chamber Pail. 
1 Size. 




Seamless Flaring 
Water Pails. 

6 Sizes. 



Batter Buckets. 
3 Sizes. 




Slop Bucket. 
1 Size. 





39 




40 



Granite Iron Ware Conk Book. 



»■ 



-K 



PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

and some nutmeg grated; set it on the fire, and keep stirring it 
till it thickens ; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the 
dish; pour in the pudding when cool, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. It will cut light and clear. You may add candied 
orange and citron if you like. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare eight or nine juicy apples and core them whole. Put 
them into a pudding-dish half filled with water, cover closely 
and set into the oven until tender. Drain off the water, fill each 
apple with jelly, and season with any spice preferred. Let 
them stand until cool. Scald one pint of milk, into which stir 
one-half pound of macaroons pounded fine, a little salt, a table- 
spoonful of corn starch, three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil 
all together a minute or two, and when cool beat in the whites 
of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour over the apples 
and bake twenty or thirty minutes. Eat with cream. 

THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One and one-half cup white sugar ; two cups fine dry bread 
crumbs; five eggs; one tablespoon of butter; vanilla, rose- 
water, or lemon seasoning; one quart fresh rich milk, and one- 
half cup jelly or jam. Rub the butter into a cup of sugar ; beat 
the yolks very light, and stir these together to a cream. Tbe 
bread crumbs, soaked in milk, come next, then the seasoning. 
Bake this in a buttered pudding-dish— a large one and but two- 
thirds full— until the custard is “set . 11 Draw to the mouth of 
the oven, spread over with jam or other nice fruit-conserve. 
Cover this with a meringue made of the whipped whites and 
half a cup of sugar. Shut the oven and bake until the maringue 
begins to color. Eat cold, with cream. You may, in straw- 
berry season, substitute the fresh fruit for preserves. It is then 
truly delightful. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 41 



SALADS. 



POTATO SALAD. 

Small onions sliced and cold boiled potatoes, over which 
pour the simple dressing. 

TRAVELING LUNCH. 

Chop sardines, ham and a few pickles quite fine; mix with 
mustard, pepper, catsup, salt and vinegar; spread between 
b*ead nicely buttered. This is to be cut crosswise, like 
jelly cake. 

DRESSING FOR SAL\D. 

Two raw eggs, one tablespoon of butter, eight tablespoons 
of vinegar, one-half teaspoon of mustard; put in a bowl over 
boiling water and stir until it becomes like cream; pepper and 
salt to your taste 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Twelve tomatoes, peeled and sliced; four eggs, boiled hard; 
one egg (raw) well beaten; one teaspoon salt; one-half teaspoon 
cayenne pepper; one teaspoon sugar; one teacup of vinegar; 
set on ice to become perfectly cold. 

LETTUCE SALADS. 

Serve with simple dressing, and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Lettuce, cold boiled potatoes, and cold boiled beets; potatoes 
in the centre, beets next, and lettuce around the edge of the 
dish. Simple dressing. 



CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two chickens, chopped coarse; eight beads of celery, three 
eggs, one pint vinegar, one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon 
sugar; rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine powder, then add the 
salt, mustard and oil, mixing well together; then add the 
cream, and after that the vinegar and raw egg. 



*■ 



© 



*■ 



* 



42 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



SALADS — CONTINUED. 



CELERY SALAD. 

One head of cabbage, theree bunches of celery, chopped 
very fine. Take one teacupful of vinegar, lump of butter size 
of an egg, yolks of two eggs; one teaspoonful mustard, one of 
salt, pinch of cayenne pepper, two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Mix 
these well; put the mixture on the stove and heat until it thick- 
ens, stirring all the time; when cold, acid two tablespoonfuls 
of rich sweet cream. Pour over the salad; if not moist enough, 

add cold vinegar. ^ ^ 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

To a three-pound lobster take the yolk of one raw egg, beat 
very lightly, then take the yolks of three hard boiled eggs (cold), 
and add to the raw yolk, beating all the time ; add, gradually , 
a few drops at a time, one-half bottle of the finest olive oil, 
still stirring all the time, then add one and a hall tablespoonfuls 
of the best English mustard, salt and pepper to taste ; beat the 
mixture until light, add a tablespoonful of strong vinegar. 
Cut the lobster into small pieces and mix with it salt and 
pepper, pour over it the dressing just before sending to the 
table; garnish with the white of egg (boiled), celery tops, and 

the small claws. ««««»«« 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Take the yolks of two raw eggs, beat them with one teaspoon 
of made mustard; this mustard should be mixed with water, 
not vinegar; then add to this, drop by drop, olive oil, stirring 
constantly until the mixture becomes very thick; then add 
two teaspoons of powdered sugar and a scant one of salt; mix 
thoroughly; squeeze in the juice of one lemon; beat well, and 
if too thick, thin with a little sweet cream. If preferred, omit 
the lemon and cream, and use vinegar. This dressing with 
lettuce, celery, or potato, makes a delicious salad. If needed 
for chicken salad, the yolks of hard boiled eggs added make it 
richer. Garnish lettuce with nasturtium blossoms and sliced 
lemon. Garnish potatoes with cold boiled beets, chopped pars- 
ley and sliced lemon. 



*■ 



0 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 43 



CAKES. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

One and one-half pounds of flour, one pound sugar, three- 
fourths pound butter, seven eggs, one gill milk, one-half tea- 
spoon saleratus, one pound currants. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
nutmeg, three cups flour, yolks of six eggs. 

SILYER CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, and three cups flour. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, ten eggs; beat the yolks 
and sugar together; add one pound of butter, putting in the 
whites beaten to a froth, and the flour last. Very nice, baked 
in small patty pans and frosted. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup 
of butter, one cup of sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, one teaepoonful nutmeg, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, three cups of flour. 

MACAROONS. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of shelled almonds, and the 
whites of four eggs. Put the almonds into hot water until the 
skins will slip off easily; then dry, and beat them to a paste 
with a little rose water or oil of lemon to prevent their oiling. 
Beat the eggs till perfectly dry and light before putting them 
to the above, and bake in small cakes in a slow oven. 




fig 



SB 




44 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



CAKES — CONTINUED. 

DATE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of brown sugar, a cupful of molasses, a cupful 
of butter, a cupful of cider, three eggs, a teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon and cloves, a little nutmeg, a teaspoonful of soda, a 
pound of dates stoned and chopped, and flour to mix pretty stiff. 

FRENCH FROSTING. 

Take half a pound of powdered sugar, and four spoonfuls rose 
water, the juice of one lemon, and the whites of two eggs. 
Beat all well together; cover the cake when half cold with a 
paste brush. Set in a cool oven to dry the icing. It will be 
solid in one hour. 

JELLY ROLLS. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, five cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
of cream tartar; bake in thin sheets, spread with currant jelly, 
and roll when cold, or in round, thin cakes, and spread, laying 
three or four cakes one upon another. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

One-half cup sour cream, one-half cup butter, two and one-half 
cups flour, one cup white sugar, the whites of five eggs, two- 
thirds teaspoon soda; prepare another mixture, except substi- 
tuting dark sugar for white, and the yolks instead of the whites; 
fill a tin with alternate layers of each, and bake. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar (white), one and one-halt cups 
flour, three tablespoons of water, one teaspoon baking powder; 
bake in two ordinary pie tins; when done, split open and fill 
with the following cream: one pint of sweet milk, one cnp 
' sugar; put over the fire; let it come to the boiling point and 
add two eggs, well beaten, two tablespoons of corn starch dis- 
solved in a little milk, butter the size of an egg; boil and 
stir quickly so as not to scorch; add lemon or vanilla flavoring. 





m 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



45 



CAKES — CONTINUED. 

FRUIT CAKE. 



Twelve eggs, one pound of flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
butter, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one pound 
citron, two tablespoons cinnamon, four nutmegs, one cup sweet 
milk, one cup molasses, one teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, one gill brandy. Bake two hours or more. 



One cup of butter worked to a cream, with two cups of sugar, 
one cup milk, two cups flour, in which is sifted one large tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder; the whites only of six eggs, beaten 
to a froth. Mix all these well, and then add one cup corn 
starch. Beat well, and bake in a moderate oven. 



One cup dried apples soaked over night, then steamed until 
soft; put them into a cup of molasses and simmer slowly till 
well cooked; when cool add one egg, one-half cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two and a half cups 
of flour, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, and spice 
to taste. 



A couple of hours before bringing the cake on the table taxe 
a very ripe, finely flavored pine-apple, peel it, cut as thin as 
wafers, and sprinkle sugar over it liberally, then cover it close. 
For the short-cake take sufficient flour for one pie-dish, of 
butter the size of a small egg, a tablespoonful or two of sugar, 
the yolk of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a very 
little salt, and milk enough to make a very soft dough. Do not 
knead the dough, but just barely mix it, and press it into the 
pie-plate. The baking powder and butter, sugar and salt, 
should be rubbed well through the flour, and the other ingredi- 
ents then quickly added. When time to serve, split the cake, 
spread the prepared pine-apple between the layers, and serve 
with nothing but sugar and sweet cream. 



CORN STARCH CAKE 



DRIED APPLE CAKE 



PINE-APPLE SHORT-CAKE 








GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 





Dish Pans. 7 Sizes. Turban Cake Moulds, 

with Tut es. 4 Sizes. 




Oval Pudding Pans. 
5 Sizes. 




Shallow Octagon Cake Cake Pans, Shallow Octagon Cake 

Moulds, without with Tubes. 4 Sizes. Moulds, with Tubes. 
Tubes. 5 Sizes. 5 Sizes. 




Straight Cake Pans, Octagon Cake Moulds, Mountain Cake Pans, 
with Tubes. 4 Sizes. with Tubes. 5 Sizes. 3 Sizes. 







Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 47 



CAKES — CONTINUED. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE. 

Eight eggs, ten ounces of sugar, half pound of flour, the juice 
and grating of one lemon; separate the eggs, beat the yolks, 
sugar and lemon until thick and light; whisk the whites until 
dry, which add with the flour, half of each at a time ; mix all 
together, but avoid beating; butter your pan well and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

ICING. 

One pound pulverized sugar, pour over one tablespoon cold 
water, beat whites of three eggs a little, not to a stiff froth ; add 
to the sugar and water; put in a deep bowl ; place in a vessel of 
boiling water, and heat. It will become thin and clear, after- 
ward begin to thicken. When it becomes quite thick remove 
from the fire and stir while it becomes cool till thick enough to 
spread with a knife. This will frost several ordinary sized 
cakes. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Three cups of sifted flour, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, and 
a little essence of lemon. Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, then add the milk (in which the soda should be dis- 
solved), the egg well beaten, and the essence. Mix with the 
above two cups of the flour, and lastly, add the third cup in 
which the cream tartar has been stirred. Then bake in pans 
or basins in a quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar, one-half pound best butter 
rubbed to a cream; add to this one-half pound grated chocolate, 
and beat all together very light; eight eggs, very fresh, and 
also beaten very light; juice of one large lemon, one large 
tableepoonful vanilla extract, one and one-half cupfuls milk, 
sifted flour with baking powder, added before sifting, to make 
a batter that will break off clean when held up in the spoon, as 





► 



i 




48 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



CAKES — CONTINUED. 

pound cake does. You may take sufficient dough from this to 
hake one cake in a jelly-cake pan, having ordinary cake for the 
top and bottom layers, with jelly or cocoanut between. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Four ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, mix well ; three 
ounces of flour, a little salt. Beat the four whites to a stiff 
froth, stir the whites into the mixture a little at a time until 
all is in. Butter a shallow pan. Squirt through a confection- 
er’s syringe or a little piece of paper rolled up. Dust with 
sugar, and bake in a not too hot oven. 

YARIEGATED CAKES. 

One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup of butter creamed with 
the sugar, one-half cup of milk, four eggs, the whites only, 
whipped light, two and a half cups of prepared flour. Bitter- 
almond flavoring, spinach-juice and cochineal. Cream butter 
and sugar; add the milk, flavoring the whites and flour. 
Divide the batter into three parts. Bruise and pound a lew 
leaves of spinach in thin muslin bag until you can express the 
juice. Put a few drops of this into one portion of the batter, 
color another with cochineal, leaving the third white. Put a 
little of each into small, round pans or cups, giving a light stir 
to each color as you add the next. This will vein the cakes 
prettily. Put the white between the pink and green, that the 
tints may show better. If you can get pistachio nuts to pound 
up for the green the cakes will be much nicer. Ice on sides 
and top. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Take a coffee-cup of cream or sour milk, beat into it a little salt 
and a small teaspoonful of soda, and before it stops foaming 
stir in enough flour to enable you to roll it out, but be sure not 
to get it very stiff. Roll into three circles, spread butter on top 
of each, and place one on top of the other. Bake till well done, 
then pull the three layers apart, butter one and cover with straw- 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



49 






a 



* 



CAKES — CONTINUED. 

berries, then butter the second and lay (crust downward) over 
the first. Pile more strawberries on the second, and cover with 
a third crust, which need not be heaped with berries unless pre- 
ferred. Set in the oven a few' minutes and then serve hot with 
cream. Before making the crust, stir into three pints of ripe, 
rich strawberries a coffee-cup of granulated sugar, and leave it 
covered over till the crust is done. If cream or sour milk is 
not plenty use sweet milk, and sift into the flour two teaspoon- 
fuls (scant) of baking powder, and as you roll out spread on 
three tablespoonfuls of ice-cold butter. Pounded ice is excel- 
lent eaten on top of a saucer of sugared berries. Wrap the ice 
in a clean, coarse towel, and pound with the flat part of a 
hatchet. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, the whites of four fresh 
eggs, half a cupful of sour milk, half a cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of flour. Cream the butter and sugar well together; 
then add the milk, with not quite half a teaspoonful of soda; 
immediately afterward stir in a little flour, then a little egg, and 
so on until all the ingredients are added. The eggs must, of 
course, be beaten until very light. Take one and a half cupfuls 
of pink sugar (any good confectioner can supply it), half a 
cupful of sour milk, not quite a teaspoonful of soda, and two 
cupfuls of flour. Flavor the pink part with anything you 
prefer; rose water is much used. Seed one-quarter of a pound 
of good raisins; after you have them prepared, rub them well 
into a little flour, when your cake will not be so apt to fall. 
After your dough of both kinds is ready, spread well the bottom 
and sides of your pan with the white dough ; fill up with the pink, 
leaving enough of the white to cover over entirely. Be very 
particular in baking, and be sure it is well done before remov- 
ing it from the pan. This is a very popular cake with young 
people especially, and is both delicious and a good imitation of 
watermelon. 



50 



* 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 




PIES, TARTS, ETC. 

PEACH custard pie. 

Use one crust; peel peaches and halve them, and turn the 
hollow side upward; sweeten as you would a peach pie; take 
one egg, a pinch of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar; beat; add 
milk enough to cover the peaches; bake. Eat when partly 
cool. Canned peaches will answer as well as fresh. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

One teacup powdered sugar, one tablespoon better, one egg, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, one teacup boiling water, 
one tablespoon corn starch dissolved in cold water; stir the 
corn starch into the hot water ; add the butter and sugar well 
beaten together; when cold, add the lemon and beaten egg. 
Bake in open tart without top crust. 

LEMON PIE. 

Six eggs (less two whites), two cups of white sugar, a little 
salt, one cup of sweet milk, two tablespoons of corn starch dis- 
solved in the milk, two large lemons, juice and rind; bake 
slowly until set. Meringue for the top: whites of two eggs 
beaten with six tablespoons of powdered sugar; bake to a light 
brown, after having spread over the surface of the pie. 

BOSTON CRE.4M PIE. 

Cream part: one pint of new milk, two eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sifted flour, five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put 
two-thirds of the milk on to boil and stir the sugar and flour in 
what is left. When the re?t boils put in the whole and stir 
until it cooks thoroughly. When cool, flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. Crust part: three eggs, beaten separately, one cup of 
granulated sugar, one and a half cups of sifted flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Divide in half; put in two pie 
tins, and bake in a quick oven to a straw color. When taken 
out, split in halves and spread the cream between. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



51 






PIES, TARTS, ETC. — continued. 

ECONOMICAL PIE CRUST. 

When boiling beef, before you put in vegetables, skim the 
grease into a dish, and set aside to cool. When cold, scrape off 
the under side. Take one teacup of melted beef fat, two cups 
of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus; mix quickly; flour 
your board well when you roll it out. Bake in a quick oven, 
brown it a little, and you will admit it to be better than when 
shortened with lard. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half pound grated cocoanut, three-fourths pound white 
sugar, six ounces butter, whites of five eggs, one glass white 
wine, two tablespoons rose water— but wine and rose water 
may be omitted; one teaspoon nutmeg. Beat butter and sugar 
well ; add the cocoanut with as little beating as possible ; then 
whip in the stiffened whites of the eggs quickly and deftly, and 
bake in open shells. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Three eggs, three-fourths cup white sugar, two tablespoons 
butter, juice and grated rind of one-half an orange, juice and 
grated rind of one-half a lemon, nutmeg to taste. Beat butter 
and sugar together well, then beat in the yolks of the eggs, and 
the orange and lemon; put into pastry without top crust, and 
bake. When done, spread over them the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff with powdered sugar, and return to the oven for a 
few minutes to brown. 

CREAM PIE. 

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, three or four eggs (the 
whites and yolks beaten separately and well), half a teaspoon of 
soda, and one of cream of tartar ; beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
add the sugar, which should be of fine quality, and then the 
flour sifted with the soda and cream of tartar. Pour this into 
four common-sized pie tins, and bake. It will be sufficient for 
two pies. Cream : make a nice custard of one pint of milk, 
three eggs and one tablespoon of corn starch, cooking the 
custard in a tin kettle of hot water; before mixing in the corn 





52 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 



PIES, TARTS, ETC. — continued. 

starch, wet it with milk, and add the eggs and sugar; then stir 
into the boiling milk; flavor to taste, and when cold spread 
between two layers of the crust. 

HELEN’S TART SHELLS. 

Take two-thirds of a cupful of lard, one tabiespoonful of 
white sugar, five tablespoonfuls of cold water, and the white of 
an egg well beaten. Mould like pie-crust, cut out with your 
tart-shell cutter, and bake. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Grate two whole lemons, add two cups sugar* three well- 
beaten eggs, piece of butter half the size of an egg. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly and place over the fire, stirring till it 
boils up, and then set away to cool. This will keep all winter, 
and can be used for tarts any time by making nice crust. 

POLISH TARTLETS. 

Roll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it into two and a 
half inch squares, brush each square over with the white of an 
egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the 
middle of each piece of paste; slightly press the two pieces 
together, brush them over with the egg; sift over sugar; bake 
in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour; when they are done, 
make a little hole in the middle and fill with jam or jelly. 

LIGHT PASTE FOR TARTS AND CHEESECAKES. 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it with 
as much water as will make three-fourths of a pound of fine 
flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it very thin, then lay the third 
part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits; dredge it 
with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll it 
out again, and put the same proportion of butter, and so pro- 
ceed till all be worked up. 




GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 




Oblong Trays. 3 Sizes. Pie Plate. 1 Size. 




Seamless Oblong Pans. Soup Bowl. Seamless Square Pans. 
5 Sizes. * 1 Size. 5 Sizes. 




Oval Trays. 8 Sizes. Pie Plates. 4 Sizes. 




Oval Meat Dishes. Tart Pan. 1 Size. Round Trays. 

4 Sizes. 2 Sizes. 




Soup Plate. 1 Size. Egg Pans. 9 Sizes. 




Jelly Cake Pans. Lettered Plate. Dinner Plates. 

2 Sizes. 1 Size. 4 Sizes. 

53 





54 Granite Iron Ware Cook * Book. 



ICES, CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. 

MILK LEMONADE. 

A pound and a half of loaf sugar dissolved in a quart of boil- 
ing water with half a pint of lemon juice, and a pint and a half 
of milk added. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Grate the outsides of two lemons, and squeeze the juice ; add 
one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, yolks of three eggs; beat the 
last three ingredients thoroughly, then add the juice and grated 
rind, and put it over the fire, stirring until thick; mould to 
fancy. Or one paper of gelatine; let it stand ©ne hour in warm 
water; then add one quart of boiling water, the juice of three 
or four lemons and a pint and a half of sugar. 

WINE AND ORANGE JELLY. 

One half pint sherry wine, one-half pint cold water, one-half 
package gelatine, j uice of two lemons and grated peel of one; 
one orange; one pint boiling water. Soak gelatine in cold 
water one-half hour, add to this sugar to taste and the lemons. 
Pour over all the boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is 
dissolved; put in the wine; strain through flannel bag into 
mould. Peel and slice orange, and drop slices into the mould 
also. By omitting the orange you have wine jelly. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

To one gallon of boiling water add four pounds of granulated 
sugar and five ounces tartaric acid. Beat the whites of three 
eggs, and pour in to a bottle with a little of the warm syrup; 
shake briskly; then pour it into the kettle of syrup, and stir it 
through well. Boil three minutes, removing the scum as it 
rises. Flavor with any preferred extract, and bottle for use. 
When wanted for use, take two or three tablespoonfuls of the 
syrup to a tumbler of ice-cold water, and one-half teaspoon 
of soda. 



9 



*- 






Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



55 



ICES, CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. — continued. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Stew the apples; add a little grated lemon peel and juice; 
line the sides and bottom of the dish about two inches thick. 
Make a boiled custard with one pint of milk and two eggs; 
when it is cool, pour it into the centre of the dish. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and spread it over the top ; sprinkle sugar 
over it, and bake a few minutes in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Soak one of Coxe’s English gelatine (in cold water sufficient 
to cover) one hour; one quart of milk boiled; scrape two ounces 
of French chocolate, mix with eight spoons of white sugar; 
moisten this with three spoons of the boiling milk; then stir in 
the gelatine and the yolks of ten well beaten eggs; stir three 
minutes briskly; take off, strain and add two teaspoons of 
vanilla; strain, and put in moulds to cool. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

ICES. 

What are termed ices consist simply of the juices of fruits 
sweetened with sugar syrup and then frozen, like ice cream. 
It is stated that the best ices are made by first cooking the sugar 
into the form of a syrup, having a strength of thirty degrees. The 
fruit juices are strained through a sieve and then added, with a 
little water and the whites of a few eggs, to the prepared syrup. 
The final mixture should have a consistence of twenty-two 
degrees. It is then frozen in the usual way. 

ICE CREAM. 

With every quart of the cream mix six ounces best pulverized 
white sugar, a very little vanilla bean, and the white of an egg. 
The latter imparts a smoothness and delicacy to the cream that 
can not otherwise be obtained. The prepared mixture is then 
to be stirred in the freezer until it is entirely congealed. 
Instead of vanilla as a flavor for the cream, a trifling amount of 
any desired flavoring syrup or juice may be used, as strawberry, 
pine-apple, lemon, orange, etc. 





56 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



CUSTARDS. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One-half package gelatine, one pint of water; soak twenty 
minutes ; add two cups of sugar, set it on the stove to come to 
a boil; when nearly cold, add the whites of four eggs beaten 
stiff, the juice and rind of two lemons, and pour into a mould; 
turn over the form. Make a custard of the yolks of four eggs, 
a quart of milk, and a small tablespoon of corn starch, sweet- 
ened to taste. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Three ounces Baker’s chocolate, three pints of milk, four 
tablespoons white sugar, two tablespoons brown sugar ; pre- 
pare a soft custard of the milk and the yolks of five eggs and 
the white of one; dissolve the chocolate in a cup of warm milk 
and heat it to boiling point; when cool, sweeten it with brown 
sugar and flavor with the extract of vanilla; pour the whole 
into a dish and cover with the whites of the five ejgs beaten 
stiff, with a little sugar; brown slightly and serve cold. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs for at least half an hour ; add 
five ounces of pulverized white sugar ; then stir into the sugar 
and eggs one quart of rich new milk, cold. Add a teaspoonful 
of distilled rose water, or any flavoring extract you fancy. Fill 
your custard cups, and then set them in a stone pan half filled 
with water, which may be w r arm at first— not hot. Put the pan 
in a rather cool oven, and gradually increase to a moderate 
heat. In about twenty minutes dip a teaspoon into one of the 
custards to ascertain if it is firm. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Whip one quart rich cream to a stiff froth, and drain well on 
a nice sieve. To one scant pint of milk add six eggs beaten 
very light; make very sweet; flavor high with vanilla. Cook 
over hot water till it is a thick custard. Soak one fall ounce 

* 



Granite Iron Ware CooJc Book. 



57 



CUSTARDS — CONTINUED. 

gelatine in a very little water, and warm over hot water. When 
the custard is very cold, beat in lightly the gelatine and the 
whipped cream. Line the bottom of your mould with buttered 
paper, the sides with sponge cake or lady fingers fastened 
together with the white of an egg. Fill with the cream, put 
in a cold place, or in summer on ice. To turn out, dip the 
mould for a moment in hot water. In draining the whipped 
cream, all that drips through can be re-whipped. 

FRUIT BLANC-MANGE. 

Stew nice fresh fruit (cherries and raspberries being the best); 
strain off the juice, and sweeten to taste; place it over the fire 
in a double kettle until it boils; while boiling stir in corn starch 
wet with a little cold water, allowing two tablespoonfuls of 
starch for each pint of juice; continue stirring until sufficiently 
cooked ; then pour into moulds wet in cold water, and set away 
to cool. To be eaten with cream and sugar. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, yolks of five eggs and the whites of seven 
(two for the meringue), six tablespoons sugar, vanilla flavor- 
ing — one teaspoon to the pint. Heat the milk almost to boil- 
ing; beat the yolks light and stir in the sugar. Add the milk as 
follows: take the milk from the fire, and instead of pouring the 
beaten eggs in it, put a spoonful or two of the milk to them, beat- 
ing well all the while, adding more and more milk as you mix, 
until there is no longer danger of sudden curdling; stir in five 
whites whipped stiff; return to the fire and stir until thick, but 
not until it breaks. Season it with vanilla; pour into glass 
cups; whip the whites of two eggs to a meringue with a heaping 
tablespoon of powdered sugar, and when the custard is cold, pile 
a little of this upon the top of each cup. You may lay a pre- 
served strawberry, or cherry, or a bit of melon sweetmeat, or a 
little bright jelly upon each. 



8 * 



m 



58 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 



WAFFLES AND PUFFS. 



WAFFLES. 



One quart of milk slightly warmed, five cups of flour, three 
eggs well beaten, two-thirds of a cup of home-made yeast, or 
half a penny’s worth of bakers’, and half teaspoonful of salt. 
Set as sponge over night. In the morning add two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter. Have the waffle-irons very hot and well 
greased, and turn quickly to prevent scorching. 



One cupful of rice boiled down, three cupfuls of flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, and a piece of lard or butter the 
size of a walnut. The ingredients must all be prepared sep- 
arately, for negligence on the part of a cook will prevent the 
success of any recipe. Be sure to beat your eggs very light. 
See that every particle of soda is thoroughly dissolved, and that 
after it is added the baking be not delayed, lest the effervescing, 
properties of the soda be destroyed, and consequently the cakes 
heavy. This batter may be used in waffle-irons, or else baked 
like flannel cakes upon the open griddle. 



One quart boiling milk, two scant cups white “corn flour,” 
one-half cup wheat flour, one scant cup powdered sugar, a little 
salt, four eggs beaten light, one tablespoonful butter, one-half 
tablespoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one teaspoon ful 
cream tartar sifted into flour, one-half teaspoonful mixed cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Boil the milk, and stir into it the meal, 
flour and salt. Boil fifteen minutes, stirring well up from the 
bottom. Put in the butter, and beat hard in a bowl for three 
minutes. When cold, put in the eggs, whipped light, with 
the sugar, the seasoning and soda. Whip up very faithfully; 
bake in greased cups in a steady oven. Turu out of cups, and 
eat with pudding sauce, or with butter alone. 



RICE WAFFLES. 



CORN MEAL PUFFS. 








Granite Iron Ware Cook Book 59 



CANDIES. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter. 
Boil until done. 

ALMOND CANDY. 

% 

Proceed in the same way as for cocoanut candy. Let the al- 
monds be perfectly dry, and do not throw them into the sugar 
until they approach the candying point. 

MAPLE CANDY. 

Four cups of maple sirup, boil until it cracks in water, and 
just before taking from the fire, put in a piece of butter the size 
of an egg. If preferred waxy, do not let it cook so long. 

SUGAR CANDY. 

Six cups of white sugar, one cup of vinegar, one cup of water- 
a tablespoonful of butter put in at the last, with one teaspoon, 
ful of soda dissolved in hot water. Boil without stirring one- 
half hour. Flavor to suit the taste. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Four cups of sugar, two cups of water, three-fourths of a cup 
of vinegar, one cup of cream or rich milk, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, a pinch of soda. 
Let it boil until it cracks in water, then work very white. 

TO CANDY NUTS. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of water; boil until it hardens 
when dropped in water, then flavor with lemon. It must not 
boil after the lemon is put in. Put a nut on the end of a fine 
knitting-needle, take out and turn on the needle until it is cool. 
If the candy gets cold, set on the stove for a few minutes. 
Malaga grapes and oranges, quartered, may be candied in the 
same way. 






Cake Griddle. 1 Size 



GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 



Oval Bake Pans 
5 Sizes. 



Basting Spoons. 5 Sizes. 



Broiler. 1 Size. 



Cocoa Shape Dipper. 
1 Size. 



Flaring Cups. 
2 Sizes. 



Oyster Stand. 
1 Size. 



Muffin Pans. 4 Sizes. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 61 



MISCELLANEOUS. 

MILDEW. 

Dip the stained cloth in buttermilk, and lay in the sun. 

IRON RUST. 

This may be removed by salt mixed with a little lemon 
juice; put in the sun; if necessary use two applications. 

TO CLEAN TINWARE. 

The best thing for cleaning tinware is common soda; damp- 
en a cloth, dip it in soda, rub the ware briskly, after which, 
wipe dry. 

TO CLEAN CUT-GLASS. 

Having washed cut-glass articles, let them dry, and after- 
wards rub them with prepared chalk and a soft brush, careful- 
ly going into all the cavities. 

TO RAISE THE PILE OF TELYET. 

Cover-a hot smoothing-iron -with a wet cloth, hold the velvet 
firmly over it; the vapor rising will raise the pile of the velvet 
with the assistance of a light whisk. 

TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Take two parts of common soda, one part of pumice stone, 
and one part of finely-powdered chalk ; sift it through a fine 
sieve, and mix it with water; then rub it well all over the mar- 
ble, and the stains will be removed; rub the marble over with 
salt and water. 

INDELIBLE INK. 

To one tablespoonful of rain water, one-half teaspoon of 
vinegar, and a piece of lunar caustic, three inches long; shake 
well together; put on to your cloth a little milk and soda (to 
a tablespoon of milk, a piece of baking soda as large as a grain 
of corn) ; iron smooth, and write immediately. 



8 



3 



m 



62 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 





THE HOUSEWIFE’S TABLE. 



The following is a very valuable housewife’s table, by which 
persons not having scales and weights at hand may readily 
measure the article wanted to form any recipe without the 
trouble of weighing, allowance to be made for an extraordi- 
nary dryness or moisture of the articles weighed or measured : 

Wheat flour, 1 pound is 1 quart ; Indian Meal, 1 pound 2 
ounces are 1 quart ; Butter, when soft, 1 pound is 1 quart ; 
Loaf Sugar, broken, 1 pound is 1 quart; White Sugar, pow- 
dered, 1 pound 1 ounce are 1 quart; best Brown Sugar, 1 pound 
2 ounces are 1 quart; 10 Eggs are 1 pound; 16 large tablespoon- 
fuis are % pint; 8 large tablespoonfuls are 1 gill; 4 large tea- 
spoonfuls are y 2 gill; 2 gills are y 2 pint; 2 pints are 1 quart; 
4 quarts are 1 gallon; a common sized tumbler holds y 2 pint; a 
commoD sized wine glass holds y 2 gill; a teacup holds 1 gill; 
a large wine glass holds 1 gill ; a large tablespoonful is y 2 
ounce; forty drops are equal to 1 teaspoonful; 4 teaspoonfuls 
are equal to 1 tablespoonful. 

Crusts and pieces of bread should be kept in a Granite 
bucket, closely covered, in a dry, cool place. 

Keep fresh lard in Granite vessels. 

Keep yeast in wood or Granite Iron Ware 

Keep preserves and jellies in glass. 

Keep salt in a dry place. 

Keep meal and flour in a cool, dry place. 

Keep vinegar in wood, glass, or Granite Iron Ware. 

Sugar is an admirable ingredient in curing meat or fish. 

Lard for pastry should be used hard, as it can be cut with a 
knife. It should be cut through the flour, not rubbed. 





« 






Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 



63 




« 



THE HOUSEWIFE’S TABLE — continued. 

PREPARING FRUITS FOR PRESERVING. 



Boil Cherries moderately 5 minutes. 

“ Raspberries “ 6 

“ Blackberries “ . 6 “ 

“ Plums “ 10 “ 

“ Strawberries “ . . . 8 “ 

“ Whortleberries “ 5 “ 

“ Pie Plant, sliced 10 “ 

“ Small Sour Pears, whole 30 “ 

“ Bartlett Pears, in halves 20 “ 

Peaches, “ 8 

“ Peaches, whole 15 

“ Pine Apples, sliced 15 “ 

. “ Siberian or Crab Apples, whole 25 

“ Sour Apples, quartered 10 “ 

“ Ripe Currants 6 u 

“ Wild Grapes 10 “ 

“ Tomatoes 20 “ 



The amount of Sugar to a quart jar should be— 



For Cherries 

“ Raspberries 

“ Lawton Blackberries 

“ Field 

“ Strawberries 

“ Whortleberries 

“ Quinces 

“ Small Sour Pears, whole 

“ Wild Grapes 

“ Peaches 

“ Bartlett Pears 

“ Pine Apples 

“ Siberian or Crab Apples. 

“ Pie Plant 

“ Plums 

“ Sour Apples, quartered.. 
“ Ripe Currants 



6 ounces. 
4 
6 

6 “ 

8 

4 

10 



4 

6 

6 

8 

10 

8 

6 



*- 



■m 



GEANITE IEON TOILET AETIOLES. 




Windsor Slop Jar. Slop Jar. 1 Size. Water Carrier. 1 Size. 
1 Size. 




Peerless Pitchers and 
Bowls. 2 Sizes. 




Oval Soap Dish. 
1 Size. . 




Oblong Soap Dish. 
1 Size. 




Windsor Water 
Carrier. 1 Size. 





Chambers. 3 Sizes. 



Foot Tub. 1 Size. 



-* 



64 




i 



V. 

d 







> • • • 














UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA 



3 01 1 2 077034228 



e®- This Trade Mark on every plec 



BROILING, BAKING 
BOILING, PRESERVING 



|Q IIGHT, HANDSOME, 
10 WHOLESOME, DURABLE- 



The BEST Ware M*dfi lor the richen. 



GEORGE RENT, 

House Furnisliing Goods, &c. 



31 BAEEIlTOTCi: 37 , EALIFAJ ... S. 




Rl nd, McNally & Co., Printers ana Engravers, Chicago. 



University of Illinois 
Library at 

Urbana-Champaign 

Bookstacks 


» 

THE j 

G RANITE I RON WARE 


COOK BOOK. 



St. Louis Stamping- Co , 


ST. LOUIS, MO. 


Brancn Office: 57 Beelcman Street, NEW YORK. 

PRICE, 25 CENTS. 

* 8 


2 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


PATENT GRANITE IRONWARE. 


TESTIMONIALS. 

New York, April 20th, 1877. 

I have examined the glazed ware, marked “ Granite Iron- 
ware,” patented May 30th, 1876, and made by the St. Louis 
Stamping Company, and find that it does not contain anything 
injurious to health. 

1 have boiled in these glazed kettles various acids found in 
fruits, sour milk, etc., viz.: citric, lactic and acetic acids, and 
other substances used in culinary operations. I have also left 
these materials in the vessels for several days; in analyzing 
the same I find them uncontaminated. 

In my opinion the “Granite Ironware” is not only safe and 
suited for the preparation of all articles of diet, but also for 
their preservation. I highly recommend the “ Granite Ware ” 
as wholesome, serviceable and durable. 

Yours respectfully, 

R OGDLN DOREMUS. M. P., LL. D. 
Prof. Chemistry and Toxicology , Bellevue Medical College, and 

Prof Chemistry and Physic , College of the City of New York. 


No. 4 State Street, Boston, April 23, 1877. 

Gentlemen : In the course of my recent investigations of 
enameled iron, I have analyzed several pieces of the Granite 
Ware found in the open market, and also some of the Ware 
lately received by your agents here; and. as there is nothing 
present that is injurious, this Ware is perfectly safe for use in 
cooking, for drinking vessels and other purposes. 

Respectfully, 

S. DANA HAYS, 

Stale Assayer and Chemist of Massachusetts. 


St. Louis, June 1. 1877. 

St. Louis Stamping Co —Gentlemen: As requested, I 
have made a careful examination and tests of several pieces of 
the Granite Ironware ” manufactured by you, and failed to 
find the least trace of any injurious substance. The severity 
of these tests, and the manner in which the “ Granite Iron- 
ware ” has stood them, enables me to recommend it as a safe 
and durable article, and as admirably adapted to the use for 
which it is designed. 

Respectfully yours, 

W. B. POTTER, 

Professor of Chemistry , Washington University, St. Louis , Mo. 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


3 


* 


5/t^i 


* 


TESTIMONIALS — continued. 

New Haven, Conn., April 14th, 1877. 
Gentlemen : At your request 1 have made a careful chemical 
examination of enameled goods made by the St. Louis Stamp- 
ing Company and used by your house In all your products 
requiring the use of enamels. In the St. Louis enamels 
marked “ Granite Ironware,” 1 find not a trace of any poison- 
ous or deleterious substance whatever. Vinegar, lemonade, 
or other vegetable acids, salt, and greasy substances, may be 
kept or cooked in vessels protected oy the Granite Enamel,” 
without the least injury to healih. There is no reason why 
dangerous enamels should be made and sold; and the public 
will demand that only such safe enamels as the 44 Granite,” so 
called, shall be offered in the market. 

B. SILLIMAN, 

State Chemist of Connecticut , and Prof, of Chemistry , Yale 
College , New Haven, Conn. 


University op Pennsylvania, ) 
West Philadelphia, July 10th, 1877. f 
I have made a thorough analysis of the enamel of the 
“ Granite Ironware ” manufactured by the St. Louis Stamping 
Company, and have found it to be entirely free from lead, 
arsenic and other metals injurious to health. “The Granite 
Ironware” is admirably adapted for culinary and other domes- 
tic purposes. I have been using it in my own family since I 
first saw it at the Centennial Exhibition, about a year ago, and 
it has given the greatest satisfaction*. In my opinion, there is 
no article in the market which is superior to it, and none 
which combines to the same degree the advantages of glass 
with the strength of metal. F. A. GENTH, 

Professor of Chemistry. 


The Analytical Sanitary Institution, \ 

54 Holborn Viaduct, E. C., London, May 28th, 1878. f 
Having examined samples of the Granite Ironware. I have 
much pleasure in stating that the enamel with which the Ware 
is coated is absolutely free from lead arsenic or other injurious 
ingredients so frequently entering into the composition of the 
enamels at present in use. It possesses extraordinary hardness 
and elasticity, and is capable of withstanding the action of 
strong mineral or vegetable acids. It does not crack when 
strongly heated, and will bear the roughest treatment. The 
Granite Ironware is light, elegant, clean and everlasting. 

ARTHUR HILL HASSALL, M. D., 

Author of “ Food and its Adulterations etc. 

* a 


GKANITE IKON KITCHEN GOODS. 



“ Imperial ” Tea Pots. 
7 Sizes. 


“Belle ” Tea Pots. 
4 Sizes. 


“ Imperial ” Coffee 
Pots. 7 Sizes. 




8 


«• 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


5 


DINNERS. 


Persons invited to a dinner party should be of the same 
standing in society. They need not be acquaintances, yet they 
should be such as move in the same class. Good talkers and 
good listeners are equally invaluable at a dinner. Among 
your guests always have one or more musicians. This will add 
greatly to the entertainment before and after dinner. 


INVITATIONS TO DINNER PARTIES. 


Invitations to dinner parties should be sent and answered by 
a messenger, except when distance is such as to make it incon- 
venient. Invitations should be issued from two to ten days in 
advance, in the name of the gentleman and lady of the house. 
They should be answered without delay, as it is essential that 
the host and hostess should know who are to be their guests. 

After the invitation is accepted, the engagement should not 
be lightly broken. 

Gentlemen can not be invited without their wives, unless it 
is a dinner given only for gentlemen. Ladies should not be 
invited without their husbands, when other ladies are invited 
with their husbands. Three out of one family are enough to be 
invited, unless it is a large dinner party. 

The paper used for issuing invitations upon, should be small 
note paper, or cards, with envelopes to match. 

FORM OF AN INVITATION TO DINNER. 

Mr. and Mrs. Moss request the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. 
Miers ’ company at dinner on Wednesday , Nov. 16 , at 5 o'clock. 

An answer should be returned at once, so that, if you do not 
accept, the hostess may make necessary changes in the ar- 
rangements. 

FORM OF AN ACCEPTANCE TO DINNER. 

Mr. and Mrs. Miers have much pleasure in accepting Mr. 
and Mrs. Moss' invitation f or November 16. 


8B- 







6 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


INVITATION DECLINED. 


Mr. and Mrs . Miers regret that the illness of their child (or 
whatever the cause may be) prevents them from having the 
pleasure of accepting Mr. and Mrs. Moss' invitation to dinner 
Nov. 16. 

The cause for declining should always be stated. If it should 
become necessary to break the engagement, a note must be 
sent at once to the host and hostess. 


TIME, 


In cities, the best time is after business hours, or from five 
to eight o’clock. It may be an hour or two earlier in the 
country. 

It is obligatory upon you to be punctual at the hour men- 
tioned, and not too early. A hostess is not required to wait 
longer than fifteen minutes for a tardy guest. 


ENTERTAINMENT. 


The success of a dinner is readily judged by the manner in 
which conversation has been sustained. If a stream of talk has 
been kept up, it shows that the guests have been entertained. 

No one should monopolize the conversation. It is due your 
host and hostess that you do all in your power to enjoy your- 
self. 


SETTING THE TABLE. 


The table-cloth and napkins must be spotless. A centre- 
piece of flowers is a pretty ornament. A handsome vase filled 
with growing plants in bloom adds greatly to the appearance 
of the table. The flowers must be of delicate odors. A va- 
riety of fruit tastefully arranged with green leaves and bright 
confectionery is always attractive. It is a pretty custom to 
place a little bouquet by the side of each lady’s plate, and to 
fold a bunch of flowers in the napkin of each gentleman, to be 
attached to the left lapel of the coat as soon as seats are taken 
at the table. Napkins, which should never be starched, are 


* 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 7 


folded and laid upon the plates, with a small piece of bread or 
roll placed on the top. The dessert is placed on the table amidst 
the flowers and ferns. A small salt-cellar should be placed by 
each plate, also a small butter plate. The name of each guest, 
written upon a card and placed one on each plate, marks the 
seat assigned. 

NUMBER TO INVITE. 

There should not be less than six nor more than fourteen at 
a dinner. The host or hostess will then be able to designate to 
each gentleman the lady whom he is to conduct to the table ; 
but when the number exceeds this limit, it is a good plan to 
have the name of each couple written upon a card and inclosed 
in an addressed envelope and left on a tray, that the guests may 
select those which bear their names. If a gentleman finds upon 
his card the name of a lady with whom he is unacquainted, he 
requests the host to present him immediately after he has 
spoken with the hostess; also to any member of the family 
with whom he is not acquainted. 

All the guests should secure introductions to the one for 
whom the dinner is given. 

GOING OUT TO DINNER. 

When dinner is announced, the host offers his right arm to 
the lady he is to escort to the table. The others follow arm- 
in-arm, the hostess being the last to leave the drawing-room. 
Age should take precedence in proceeding from the drawing- 
room to the dining-room. The host escorts the eldest lady or 
the greatest stranger, or, if there be a bride present, preced- 
ence is given to her, unless the dinner is given for another 
person, in which case he escorts the latter. 

The hostess is escorted either by the greatest stranger, or by 
some gentleman whom she wishes to place in the seat of honor, 
which is at her right. 

The host places, at his right, the lady whom he escorts. 


The seats of the host and hostess may be in the middle, at 
opposite sides of the table, or at opposite ends. Husbands 






8 


Granite Ivon Ware Cook Book. 


should not escort their wives, nor brothers their sisters. All 
guests stand until the hostess is seated. 

Ease of manner of the host and hostess, and quiet and sys- 
tematic movements on the part of attendants, are indispens- 
able. The servants commence in passing the dishes, one upon 
the right of the host and one upon the right of the hostess. 

The attendant places each dish in succession before the host 
and hostess (the soup, salad and dessert only being served by 
the hostess) with the pile of plates. Each plate is supplied, 
taken by the attendant on a small salver, and set before the 
guest from the left. Any second dish which belongs to the 
course is presented at the left of the guest, who helps himself. 
As a rule, the lady at the right of the host or the oldest lady 
should be served first. As soon as any one is done, his plate 
is promptly removed, and when all are done, the next course is 
served in the same way. All crumbs should be brushed from 
the cloth before the dessert is brought on. 

The finger bowls, which are brought in on the napkin on the 
dessert plate, and set off to the left of the plate, are used by 
dipping the fingers in lightly and drying them on the napkin. 
They should be half full of warm water with a bit of lemon 
floating in it. 

When all have finished dessert, the hostess gives the signal 
that dinner is ended by pushing back her chair, and the ladies 
repair to the drawing-room, the oldest leading, the youngest 
following last, and the gentlemen repairing to the library or 
smoking-room. In about half an hour tea is served in the 
drawing-room, with a cake-basket of crackers or little cakes. 
The gentlemen join the ladies, and after a little chat over their 
cups, all are at liberty to leave. 

In preparing a dinner, a hostess should remember that a 
small variety cooked to a nicety, and served with grace, makes 
the most charming dinner. A sensible bill of fare is— soup, 
fish wffch one vegetable, a roast with one or two vegetables, 
and a salad and cheese, and a dessert. The carver should serve 


» 


SB 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 9 


meat as he cuts it ; should not fill the platter with hacked frag- 
ments. It is ill bred to help too abundantly, or to flood with 
gravies, which are disliked by many. 

Water should be poured at the right hand; everything else 
is served at the left. The hostess should continue eating until 
all guests have finished. Jellies and sauces are helped on the 
dinner plate, and not on side dishes. If there are two dishes 
of dessert, the host may serve the most substantial one. Fruit 
is served after pudding and pies, and coffee last. In winter, 
plates should be made warm before being brought to the 
table. 

The latest and most satisfactory plan for serving dinners, is 
the dinner a la Russe (the Russian style), all the food being 
placed upon a side table, and servants doing the carving and 
waiting. 

At a fashionable dinner soup is the first course. All should 
accept it, even if it is a kind they do not like, and know that 
they will not touch it. Soup should never be called for a second 
time. Take it noiselessly from the side of your spoon, and 
never tilt your soup plate for the last spoonful. 

After soup comes fish, which must be eaten with a fork in the 
right hand and a piece of bread in the left, unless you are pro- 
vided with fish knives. If you wish, you may decline fish, but 
it must not be called for a second time. 

The side dishes, which come after the soup and fish, must 
be eaten with the fork. The knife is used only for cutting 
meats and anything too hard for a fork. Never convey food to 
the mouth with the knife. 

Remove the knife and fork from your plate as soon as they 
are set before you, as the serving of an entire course is delayed 
by neglecting to do so. 


88 - 


■© 




10 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


SOUPS. 

TOMATO SOUP. 

To one pint tomatoes canned, or four large raw ones, cut up 
fine, add one quart boiling water and let them boil. Then add 
one teaspoon of soda, when it will foam ; immediately add one 
pint of sweet milk, with salt, pepper and plenty of butter. 
When this boils add eight small crackers rolled fine, and serve. 
Equal to oyster soup. 

CELERY SOUP. 

One shank of beef, one large bunch of celery, one cup of rich 
cream. Make a good broth of a shank of beef, skim off the fat 
and thicken the broth with a little flour mixed with water. Cut 
into small pieces one large bunch of celery, or two small ones, 
boiling them in the soup till tender. Add a cup of rich cream 
with pepper and salt. 

OYSTER SOUP. 

Pour one quart of boiling water into a skillet; then one 
quart of good rich milk; stir in one teacup of rolled cracker 
crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt to taste. When all 
come to a boil, add one quart of good fresh oysters; stir well, 
so as to keep from scorching; then add a piece of good sweet 
butter, about the size of an egg; let it boil up once; then 
remove from the fire immediately; dish up and send to table. 

JULIENNE SOUP. 

Shred two onions and fry brown in a half spoon of butter ; 
add a little mace, salt and pepper; then a spoonful or so of 
stock; rub a tablespoonful of flour smooth with a little butter 
and let fry with the onions; strain through a colander, then add 
more stock as desired; cut turnip, carrot and celery in fillets; 
add a few green peas; boil tender in a little water and add both 
water and vegetables to the soup. If wished, the flour can be 
left out, and it will make a clear, light-colored soup. In that 
case the onions should be cut in fillets and boiled with the veg- 
etables. 



* * 

GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 



T .irmpxi Sauce Pans 12 Sizes. Convex Covered Sauce 



Windsor Sauce Pans. 10 Sizes. Windsor Sauce Pots. 




12 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


SOUPS — CONTINUED. 

SWISS POTATO SOUP. 

Pare and slice six large potatoes and three small turnips. 
Put them to five pints of water. Boil five or six hours, until 
perfectly dissolved and of the consistency ol pea soup. If it 
boils away too fast fill up with boiling water. When thick 
enough add butter, pepper and salt. A small bit of salt pork, 
or a bone, or bit of lamb or veal and a small onion may be 
added to vary the soup, if desired. 

SCOTCH BROTH. 

Take four pounds of mutton— part of the leg is best— and add 
one gallon water, one teacupful of pearl barley, two carrots 
sliced, two turnips sliced, two onions cut small, three carrots 
grated, the white part of a cabbage chopped very small, and a 
small quantity of parsley. Season with pepper and salt. Let 
this boil very gently for three hours and a half, and at the din- 
ner table it will, most likely, by all who are fond of soups, be 
pronounced excellent. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

Boil a pair of chickens with great care, skimming constantly 
and keeping them covered with water. When tender, take out 
the chicken and remove the bone. Put a large lump of butter 
into a spider, dredge the chicken-meat well with flour, and lay 
in the hot pan ; fry a nice brown, and keep hot and dry. Take 
a pint of the chicken water, and stir in two large spoonfuls of 
curry powder, two of butter and one of flour, one teaspoonful 
of salt and a little cayenne; stir until smooth, then mix it with 
the broth in the pot. When well mixed, simmer five minutes, 
then add the browned chicken. Serve with rice. 

Remember, to make soup or 1 roth, put the meat and vegeta- 
bles in cold water. But if the meat is to be eaten, then the 
water must be boiling before the meat is put into the water. 
Same with fish and fowls. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 13 


FISH. 

BROOK TROUT. 

If small, fry them with salt pork ; if large, boil, and serve 
with drawn butter. 

SAUCE FOR BOILED FISH. 

To one teacup of milk, add one teacup of water; put it on 
the fire to scald, and when hot stir in a tablespoon of flour, 
previously wet with cold water ; add two or three eggs ; season 
with salt and pepper, a little celery, vinegar and three table- 
spoons of butter. Boil four or five eggs hard, take off the 
shells, and cut in slices, and lay over the «ish. Then pour over 
the sauee serve. 

BOILED WHITE FISH. 

Lay the fish open; put it in a dripping pan, with the back 
down; nearly cover with water; to one fish put two tablespoons 
salt; cover tightly and simmer (not boil) one half-hour; dress 
with gravy, butter and pepper; garnish with sliced eggs. For 
sauce use a piece of butter the size of an egg, one tablespoon 
of flour, one-half pint boiling water; boil a lew minutes, and 
add three hard-boiled eggs, sliced. 

BAKED FISH. 

Let the fhh remain in cold water, slightly salted, for an hour 
before it is time to cook it ; place the gridiron on a dripping 
pan with a little hot water in it and bake in a hot oven; just 
before it is done, butter it well on the top, and brown it nicely. 
The time of baking depends upon the size of the fish. A small 
fish will bake in about half an hour and a large one in an hour. 
They are very nice when cooked as above and served with a 
sauce which is made from the gravy in the dripping pan, to 
which is added a tablespoon of catsup and another of 
some pungent sauce and the juice of a lemon. Thicken with 
brown flour moistened with a little cold water. Garnish hand- 
somely with sprigs of parsley and currant, jelly. 

* — 


* 



14 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 


SHELL FISH. 

OYSTER PATTIES. 

Stew the oysters ; take the broth and allow the yolk of one 
egg to every dozen of oysters; turn off the broth and add the 
eggs ; let it come to a boil ; then turn back the oysters and fill 
the crust. 

OYSTER DRESSING. 

One quart of milk; putin kettle on the stove; take nearly 
half a cup of butter; salt and pepper to taste ; break in crackers 
enough to thicken. When hot put in one pint of oysters, stir 
well and then it is ready for use. 

STEWED OYSTERS. 

In all cases, unless shell oysters, wash and drain; mix half a 
cup of butter and a tablespoon of corn starch; put with the 
oysters in a granite sauce pan; stir until thevboil; add two 
cups of cream or milk; salt to taste; do not use the liquor of 
the oysters in either stewing orescaloping. 

FRICASSEED OYSTERS. 

For a quart can, drain the oysters dry as possible; put a piece 
of butter the size of an egg into your spider, and let it get 
quite brown; put in your oysters; as soon as they commemce 
to cook add as much more butter, which has been previously 
well mixed with a teaspoonful of flour; let it cook a moment 
and add one egg, beaten with a teaspoonful of cream; let this 
cook a moment and pour all over toasted bread. 

OYSTERS ON THE SHELL. 

Wash the shells and put them on hot coals or upon the top 
of a hot stove, or bake them in a hot oven; open the shells 
with an oyster knife, taking care to lose none of the liquor, 
and serve quickly on hot plates, with toast. Oysters may 
be steamed in the shells, and are excellent eaten in the same 
manner. 





« 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


15 


SHELL FISH — continued. 
ROASTED OYSTERS. 


Take oysters in the shell, wash the shells clean and lay them 
on hot coals; when they are done they will begin to open. 
Remove the upper shell, and serve the oysters in the lower 
shell, with a little melted butter poured over each. 


ESCALOPED OYSTERS. 


Butter a pudding dish, roll crackers very fine ; put a layer of 
crackers, then a layer of oysters; season with salt and pepper ; 
put small bits of butter over the oysters; fill the dish nearly 
full, having crackers on top ; pour in sweet milk enough to soak 
the crackers; bake nearly an hour. If too dry when baking 
add a little more milk and butter. 


TO FRY OYSTERS. 


Use the largest and best oysters ; lay them in rows upon a 
clean cloth and press another upon them, to absorb the mois- 
ture; have ready several beaten eggs, and in another dish some 
finely crushed crackers; in the frying pan heat enough butter 
to entirely cover the oysters; dip the oysters first into the eggs, 
then into the crackers, rolling it or them over that they may 
become well encrusted ; drop into the granite frying pan and 
fry quickly to a light brown. Serve dry and let the dish be 
warm. 


OYSTERS. 


Drain the liquor from the oysters. Rub a tablespoonful of 
flour into a quarter of a pound of butter for each hundred 
oysters ; a little mace or nutmeg, if agreeable ; six whole white 
peppers; salt to taste. Bring the liquor to a boil, then add the 
oysters, and as soon as they boil up once add the butter and 
flour; stir constantly, and when boiling add half a cup of rich 
cream to every hundred oysters. Stir all well together, and 
serve as'soon as cooked enough, which will be after adding the 
cream, as soon as it boils up once thoroughly. 



« 



16 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


POULTRY AND GAME. 


TO BROIL QUAIL OR WOODCOCK. 

After dressing, split down the back, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, and lay them on a gridiron, the inside down ; broil 
slow at first; serve with cream gravy. 

TO ROAST WILD DUCK OR TEAL. 

After dressing, soak them over night in salt and water, to 
draw out the fishy taste. Then in the morning put them into 
fresh water, changing several times before roasting. Stuff or 
not, as desired. Serve with currant jelly. 


CHICKEN PIE. 

Boil yourchickens until they are tender and season highly; 
line deep pie plates with a rich crust; take the white meat and 
a little of the dark off from the bones; put into the pie plates; 
pour the gravy over the chicken, add butter and a little flour; 
cover with the crust; bake from half to three-quarters of an 
hour. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken in pieces, lay it in salt and water, which 
change several times ; roll each piece in Hour; fry in very hot 
lard or butter; season with salt and pepper; fry parsley with 
them also. Make a gravy of cream seasoned with salt, pepper 
and a little mace, thicken with a little flour in the pan in which 
the chickens were fried, pouring off the lard. Use a granite 
iron fry pan. 

CHICKEN FRICASSEE. 


Cut up the chickens and put on the fire in a granite kettle 
with cold water sufficient to cover; add a little salt or salt pork 
sliced, if you like; boil until tender, and cut up and put in a 
part of a head of celery. When tender, have ready hot baking- 
powder biscuits broken open and laid on a platter; on this 
place the chicken ; thicken the gravy with flour moistened with 
water or milk, and pour it over the chicken and biscuits.* If 


* 


s- 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 17 


POULTRY AND GAME —continued. 
you prefer, use a good-sized piece of butter to season, instead 
of the salt pork. Oysters are an addition. 

BROILED YENISON STEAK. 

Broil quickly over a clear fire, and when sufficiently done pour 
over two tablespoonfuls of currant jelly melted with a piece of 
butter. Pepper and salt to season. Eat while hot, on hot 
plates. 

TO ROAST WILD FOWL. 

The flavor is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, 
salt and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much 
less dressing than tame. They should be served of a fine color 
and a rich brown gravy. To take off the fishy taste which wild 
fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt and hot water into the 
dripping pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with 
this, then take away the pan and baste constantly with butter. 

PRAIRIE CHICKENS, PARTRIDGES AND QUAILS. 

Clean nicely, using a little soda in the water in which they 
are washed; rinse and dry them, and then fill them with dress- 
ing, sewing them up nicely, and binding down the legs and 
wings with cords. Put them in a steamer over hot water, and 
let them cook until just done. Then place them in a pan with 
a little butter; set them in the oven and baste them frequently 
with melted butter until of a nice brown. They ought to brown 
nicely in about fifteen minutes. Serve them on a platter, with 
sprigs of parsley alternating with currant jelly. 

The more gently meat boils, the more tender it will become. 
Allow twenty minutes for boiling each pound of fresh meat. 

Roast meats require a brisk fire. Baste often. Twenty min- 
utes is required for roasting each pound of fresh meat. 


» 



IRON 


Rice or Milk 
6 Sizes. 


KITCHEN GOODS. 


Rice or Milk Boilers. 
4 Sizes. 



Farina Boilers. 
3 Sizes. 



Rice or Milk Boilers. 
3 Sizes. 




3 


ffj S 

Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 19 


MEATS. 

BOILED TONGUE WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Half boil a tongue, then stew it with a sauce made of a 
little broth, flour, parsley, one small onion, one small carrot, 
salt and pepper, and one can of tomatoes cooked and 
strained. Lay the tongue on a dish and strain the sauce 
oyer it. 

STAFFORDSHIRE BEEFSTEAK. 

Beat them a little with a rolling pin, flour and season, then 
fry with 8 sliced onion of a fine light brown; lay the steaks into 
a stew pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will 
serve for sauce; stew them very gently half an hour and add a 
spoonful of catsup before serving. 

A LA MODE BEEF. 

Take a piece of beef four or five inches thick, and with a 
small knife make small holes entirely through it at small dis- 
tances apart. Then take strips of fat salt pork, roll them in 
pepper and cloves, lay on a pan, cover closely, and put over in 
a steamer, and steam for three hours. When done thicken the 
gravy in the pan with a little flour. This is excellent when eaten 
as cold meat. 

HOW TO COOK DRIED BEEF. 

Heat milk and water (about half of each), and thicken with 
a beaten egg and a little flour; when nicely boiled, add the beef, 
which, of course, should be sliced as thin as possible, and im- 
mediately remove from the fire, as the less it is cooked the 
better; if the beef is very salty, it will need freshening in a 
little hot water before going into the gravy, but if not it will 
season it just right without freshening. 

BOILED HAM. 


Soak in water over night. N.ext morning wash hard with a 
coarse cloth or stiff brush, and put on to boil with plenty of 
cold water. Allow a quarter of an hour to each pound in cook- 




20 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


MEATS — CONTINUED. 

in g, and do not boil too fast. Do not remove the skin until 
cold; it will come off easily and cleanly then, and the juices 
are better pre* erved than when it is stripped hot. Send to table 
with dots of pepper or dry mustard on the top, a tuft of fringed 
paper twisted about the shank, and garnished with parsley. Cut 
very thin in carving. 

SHEEP’S BRAINS, ROASTED OR BAKED. 

Four or six brains will be required for a dish. Prepare the 
brains as for stewing, and procure as many slices of bacon as 
there are brains. After they have been boiled and thrown into 
cold water, drain and dry them perfectly; brush over with oil, 
and roll them in highly seasoned bread crumbs. Put them to 
the bacon before the fire in a Dutch oven, or bake in a well- 
heated oven, burning them about that they may be equally 
cooked, and basting them occasionally. When they are nicely 
browned, take them up. Lay the slices of bacon on toast, put 
the brains upon them, and send sharp sauce or tomato sauce 
to table in a tureen. Time to bake, thirty to forty minutes. 
Probable cost, 50 cents. Sufficient for six or seven persons. 

FRENCH DAUBE. 

If beef is poor and tough it is made palatable by this French 
mode of cooking it. Season a thick steak with salt and pep- 
per, and fry slowly in a little lard. Turn it often, so that both 
sides may be cooked alike and equally browned. When well 
browned add a small quantity of water, half a sliced onion, 
some minced parsley and thyme, thicken with a spoonful of 
flour, cover close and leave it for an hour on the back of the 
stove, where it may simmer slowly; after this has been done 
add a pound can of tomatoes, then let the daube cook about 
two hours, or until the meat is ready to fall to pieces. A good 
sized porcelain-lined pot should be used in preparing this dish. 
We have never tried it, but are assured it is an excellent way 
t o dispose of poor meat and make it quite acceptable. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 21 


VEGETABLES. 

ENGLISH POTATO BALLS. 

Boil some potatoes very dry; mash them as smoothly as 
possible; season well with salt and pepper; warm them with 
an ounce of butter to every pound of potatoes, and a few spoon- 
fuls of good cream; let them cool a little, roll them into balls; 
sprinkle over them some crushed vermicelli or macaroni, and 
fry them a light brown. 

FRIED NEW POTATOES. 

Take small ones, wash and scrape, put them in a sauce pan of 
cold water, bring them to a boil, drain, wipe with a clean 
cloth. Put potatoes and two tablespoons of butter in the frying 
pan and cook twenty minutes; watch them, and when they 
commence to brown, turn them occasionally, so as to brown 
alike on all sides. Then strain off the butter, sprinkle with 
salt, and serve in a hot dish. 

POTATOES A LA DUCHESSE. 

Take eight large potatoes, boiled and mashed fine, one table- 
spoonful of butter, the yolks of two raw eggs, a little salt; stir 
all together over the fire, then set it away to cool. When quite 
cold, roll it on a board with flower to keep from sticking. Make 
it in cake or any form you wish. Take the white of the egg, 
beat with a little water, dip in the potato and roll in bread or 
cracker crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

TO MAKE A TIMBALE OF POTATOES. 

Cook, drain, mash, and pass through a fine sieve two quarts 
oi Irish potatoes ; put this in a saucepan, with six ounces of 
butter, two whole eggs, the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, nut- 
meg and a little sugar; have a plain two quart copper timbale 
mould, well buttered and sprinkled with fresh bread crumbs ; 
put the preparation in it, with a little more bread crumbs, and 
bits of butter on the top ; bake for half an hour in a moderately 




22 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


VEGETABLES —continued. 

hot oven; before serving pass the blade of a knife betWeen the 
potatoes and the mould, turn over carefully, and in a few min- 
utes take the mould off and serve. 

LIMA BEANS. 

Shell, wash, and put into boiling water with a little salt; 
when boiled tender, drain and season them, and either dress 
with cream, or large lump of butter, and let simmer for a 
few moments. 

TOMATOES SCALLOPED. 

Stew and season a quart of tomatoes to your taste ; add butter, 
a little chopped onion, and salt and pepper to the taste; then 
grated bread crumbs till a stiff batter. Pour into a buttered 
pudding dish— strew the top thickly with crumbs, and bake 
twenty minutes. This is nice as a breakfast dish or a dinner 
vegetable. Take then some scalloped tomatoes, when left over, 
make into round croquettes, and fry a nice brown, and you have 
another dish. Or take the raw tomatoes, stew a few moments, 
well seasoned, and stir in beaten eggs, in proportion of three 
to a quart, and bake, and you have still another variety. 

STEWED CELERY. 

Break apart and wash very carefully three heads of good 
celery; cut off the green portions and leave the outside stalks 
to season soups. Cut the celery into pieces an inch long, and 
put to just enough boiling water to cover them; add salt to the 
water before putting in the celery ; boil slowly. When tender, 
drain and place neatly on a vegetable dish, sprinkling over it 
some black pepper; pour off part of the water, but save it, in 
case of need, till the stew is completed. Wet into a smooth 
paste a teaspoonful of corn starch and add the same quantity of 
flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter and the same of rich cream; 
stir this into the water, over the fire, till it thickens, and then 
pour over the celery. If too thick add some of the water left 
over; if too thin for your wishes, use more corn starch after 
making it into a thin paste. 


* 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 23 


BREAD. 

CORN BREAD. 

One pint sweet milk, one pint sour milk, one pint flour, two 
pints meal, one tablespoonful syrup, one teaspoonful salt, one 
teaspoonful soda. Steam three hours. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Three pints of Graham flour, one pint of wheat flour, one cup 
yeast, half cup molasses, and a teaspoonful salt. Mix with 
lukewarm water as stiff as you can stir with a spoon. Let it 
rise over night and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

RICE BREAD. 

Boil one pound of whole rice in milk enough to dissolve all 
the grains, adding it, boiling, as it is absorbed. Have four 
pounds of sifted flour in a pan, and into this pour the rice and 
milk, adding salt and a wineglassful (large) of brewer’s yeast. 
Knead, and set to rise till light. Form in loaves, and bake. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

One heaping quart of rye flour, one heaping quart of Indian 
meal, one heaping quart of Graham flour, scanty quart of milk, 
scanty quart of warm water, one coffee-cup of molasses, one 
coffee-cup of home-made yeast, one teaspoonful of saleratus, 
one dessert spoonful of salt; grease an iron kettle, pour in the 
mixture, and bake six or seven hours in a slow oven. 

GRAHAM CRACKERS. 

Seven cups graham, one cup thick sweet cream (or butter), 
one pint sweet milk, two teaspoonfuls baking powder; rub the 
baking-powder into the flour; add the cream with a little 
salt, then the milk; mix well, and roll as thin as soda crackers; 
cut in any shape; bake quickly; then leave about the stove for 
a few hours to dry thoroughly. 

* * 



24 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book , 


BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. 

FRENCH BISCUIT. 

Two cups of butter, two cups of sugar, one egg (or the whites 
of two), half a cup of sour milk, half a teaspoon of soda, flour 
to roll ; sprinkle with sugar. 

WASHINGTON BISCUIT. 

Make one pound flour, the yolk of an egg and some milk 
into a stiff paste. Knead it till smooth, roll it thin, and cut it 
into biscuits. Bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. 

BUTTERMILK BISCUITS. 

To three cupfuls of buttermilk add one of butter, one tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, half a teaspoonful of soda, a dessert 
spoonful of salt, and flour enough to make the dough just stiff 
enough to admit of being rolled out into biscuits. 

RYE BISCUITS. 

One pint milk, yeast, either home-made or baker’s, one table- 
spoonful melted butter, and three tablespoonfuls of sugar; stir 
in flour enough to make as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon. 

Let it rise over night, and the next morning drop it into well- 
buttered gem-pans or biscuit pans. Bake half an hour in as 
hot an oven as can be used without scorching. 

TEA BISCUIT. 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful salt, one-half teaspoonful 
sugar, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one tablespoonful lard, 
one pint milk. Sift together flour, salt, sugar, and baking pow- 
der, rub in the lard cold ; add the milk, and form into a smooth, 
consistent dough. Flour the board, turn out the dough, roll it 
out to the thickness of three-quarters of an inch, cut with 
small, round cutter; lay them close together on a greased 
baking tin, wash over with milk; bake in good hot oven twenty 
minutes . 

© © 



GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 



Windsor Preserving Tea Kettles. 4 Sizes. Seamless Convex 
Kettles. 10 Sizes. Kettles. 8 Sizes. 



Seamless Stove Kettles. Tea Kettles. 6 Sizes. Stove Pots. 

4 Sizes ± Sizes. 



Deep Preserving Tea Kettles. Lipped Preserving 

Kettles. 8 Sizes. 1 Sizes. Kettles. 12 Sizes. 


25 



26 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. - continued. 

RAISED BISCUIT. 

One quart milk, three-fourths cup lard or butter (half and 
half is good), three-fourths cup yeast, two tablespoonfuls white 
sugar, one teaspoonful salt, flour to make a soft dough; mix 
over night, warming the milk slightly and melting the butter; 
in the morning roll out into a sheet three-quarters of an inch 
thick; cut into round cakes; set them closely together in a 
pan; let them rise twenty minutes; bake twenty minutes. 

BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

One pint of water, one-half cup of shortening (half lard and 
half butter), one teaspoonful of salt, heaping teaspoonful of 
baking powder. Sift your flour into the mixing pan; mix the 
the baking powder and salt into the centre part of flour the 
same as if for pie crust; mix as little flour as possible, just 
enough to be able to roll them nicely; scarcely knead them at 
all; bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. This recipe mak3s 
eighteen biscuits. 

DELICIOUS LIGHT TEA BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of best sifted flour, one pint of sweet milk, in 
which melt one-quarter of a pound of butter, one teaspoon of 
salt in the milk, one teacup of fresh yeast. Make a hole in the 
centre, pour in the yeast (well shaken), stir diligently with a 
fork. Let the milk, etc., be just blood- warm (no more), then 
knead as bread. Cut it across, through and through, with a 
knife. Let it rise six or seven hours, as it may require. Take 
from the pan. knead it well, cut in small cakes and put to rise 
in pan an hour or more before baking. This recipe, with 
additional sugar and suitable spices, makes excellent family 
doughnuts. 

MARYLAND BISCUIT. 

Rub in two quarts of flour, one small teacup of lard, and the 
usual quantity of salt. Mix it up with just enough water to 
make a stiff dough, and beat from half an hour to an hour. It 

* * 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 27 


BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. - continued. 
should be worked until the blisters are constantly snapping 
and the dough i - waxy. After the dough is once mixed there 
should be no more flour worked in. When it is all right, if 
you break off a piece quickly, it snaps off short, and in 
cutting a piece off with a sharp knife the holes or pores where 
you have cut it are small and of an even size. Now break off 
the dough in small pieces, and work each piece into a nice 
biscuit shape, and press it with the lower part of the thumb 
where it joins the hand to make the indentation; prick, and 
bake quickly in a very hot oven. The biscuit should be a 
light brown in the centre of the top and on the bottom, but 
not all over, and not hard. 

CHARLOTTE’S MUFFINS. 

One quart flour, three eggs, white and yolks beaten separate- 
ly, three cups milk, a little salt. Beat thoroughly and bake 
quickly. 

MUFFINS. 

A quart of milk, two eggs, butter the size of an egg melted 
in the milk, a pound of flour, two teaspoonfuls of cream of 
tartar and one of soda. Bake in gem-pans in a quick oven. 

SWEET BREAKFAST MUFFINS. 

Sift two teaspoonfuls of baking powder with one quart of 
flour ; add one cup of sugar ; rub into the flour a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, then stir in one pint of milk. Beat free from 
lamps to a smooth batter. Bake in muffin rings on the top of 
the stove or in gem irons in the oven. 

MUFFINS. 

One and a half pints new milk, one egg, one tablespoonful 
sugar, one tablespoonful butter, one teaspoonful salt, one 
cake yeast (or, better, half cup home-made yeast) ; mix with 
flour until a very stiff’ batter is formed; leave in a warm place 
during the night and bake in the morning in rings. 





28 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. — continued. 

HOMINY MUFFINS. 

Take two cups of fine hominy boiled and cold; beat it smooth; 
stir in three cups of sour milk, half a cup of melted butter, two 
teaspoonfuls of salt, and two tablespoonfuls of white sugar; 
then add three eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in hot water, and one large cup of flour; bake 
quickly. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 

One pint corn meal, one pint flour, one tablespoonful sugar, 
one teaspoonful salt, three teaspooni'uls baking powder, one 
tablespoonful lard, two eggs, one large pint of milk. Sift to- 
gether corn meal, flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder; rub 
in the lard cold, add the eggs beaten and the milk ; mix into a 
batter of the consistence of cup cake; fill cold muffin cans, 
carefully greased, two-thirds full, and bake in hot oven fif- 
teen minutes. 

FRENCH ROLLS. 

One pint of milk, one small cup of home-made yeast, (you 
can try the bakers’,) flour enough to make a stiff batter; raise 
overnight; in the morning add one egg, one tablespoonful of 
butter, and flour enough to make it stiff to roll. Mix it well 
and let it rise, then knead it again (to make it fine and white,) 
roll out, cut with a round tin and fold over, put them in a pan 
and cover very close. Set them in a warm place until they are 
very light, bake quickly, and you will have delicious rolls. 

TEA ROLLS. 

The following will be found a good recipe fof rolls: Two 
quarts of flour, into which rub a large teaspoonful of lard, one 
pint of cold boiled milk, one-quarter of a cup of sugar, one- 
half cup of yeast; make a hole in the flour, pour in the liquid 
and let it rise over night; in the morning knead, and let it rise 
until noon; then knead and roll out, cut out with a round 
cutter, and butter one-half ; turn the other half over on to it, 
and let it rise until tea time ; bake in a quick oven. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 29 


BISCUITS, MUFFINS, ETC. — continued. 

YIENNA ROLLS. 

One quart flour, half teaspoonful salt, two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder, one tablespoonful lard, one pint milk. Sift 
together flour, salt, and baking powder ; rub in the lard cold ; 
add the milk, and mix into a smooth dough in the bowl / 
easily to be handled without sticking to the hands and board. 
Flour the board, turn it out, and give it a quick turn or two to 
equalize it; then roll it out with the rolling pin to the thick- 
ness of half an inch, cut it out with a large round cutter, fold 
one-haif over on the other by doubling it, lay them on a greased 
baking sheet without touching, wash them over with a little 
milk to glaze them, and bake in hot oven fifteen minutes. 

POP-OYERS. 

One cupful of milk, one egg, one cupful of flour, and a little 
6alt. Beat well and put a tablespoonful of the batter in very 
small tin pans. Bake quickly, and eat immediately. 

RUSK. 

One pint of milk, one teacupt'ul of yeast, mix it thin; when 
light add twelve ounces of sugar, ten ounces of butter, four 
eggs, flour sufficient to make it as stiff as bread. When risen 
again, mould and spread it on tin. 

RUSK. 

Take a piece of bread-dough large enough to fill a quart 
bowl, one teacupful of melted butter, one egg, one teaspoonful 
of salaratus; knead quite hard, roll out thin, lap it together, 
roll to the thickness of a thin biscuit, cut out with a biscuit 
mould, and set it to rise in a warm place. From twenty to 
thirty minutes will generally be sufficient. Bake them and dry 
thoroughly through, and you will have an excellent rusk to 
eat with your coffee. You can make them with hop yeast, and 
sweeten them, too, if you desire. Milk yeast may be used. 



* m 

30 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


ENTREES. 

DEVILED BEEF. 

Take slices of cold roast beef, lay them on hot coals, and 
broil; season with pepper and salt, and serve while hot, with a 
small lump of butter on each piece 

VEAL COLLOPS. 

Cut veal from the leg or other lean part into pieces the size 
of an oyster. Have a seasoning of pepper, salt and a little mace 
mixed, rub some over each piece; then dip in egg, then into 
cracker crumbs, and fry as you do oysters. They both look and 
taste like oysters. 

IRISH STEW. 

Take mutton chops, cover well with water, and let them 
come to a boil; pour this off and add more water; then a lump 
of butter the size of an egg, two table spoonsfuls of flour, one 
teacupful of milk, season; potatoes, and two small onions. 
Boil until the potatoes are done. 

BARBECUED HAM. 

Cut your raw ham in slices; soak in scalding water for half 
an hour; then lay the slices flat in a frying pan, pepper each, 
and spread on each one-fourth teaspoon of made mustard. Pour 
in vinegar in proportion of half a teaspoonful to a slice ; fry 
quickly, turning over. When done, take out and serve on a 
dish; add to the gravy, half a glass of wine, and a teaspoon of 
sugar; boil up once and pour over the meat. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

One and one-half pounds nice corned beef, boiled tender and 
chopped fine; one third more potatoes when chopped than 
meat; three large onions, sliced fine and browned in butter, 
and when tender add the meat and potatoes, well seasoned 
with salt and pepper; enough water to moisten. A small red 
pepper chopped fine is a great improvement It is good without 
onions also, and milk is better than water to moisten. 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 


31 


ENTREES — continued. 

HAM TOAST. 

Mix with one tablespoonful of finely-chopped or grated bam, 
the beaten-up yolk of an egg, and a little cream and pepper ; 
heat over the fire, and then spread the mixture either on hot 
buttered toast, or on slices of bread fried quite crisp in butter ; 
serve very hot. 

BOSTON BAKED BEANS. 

Soak over night one pound of beans in clear water; in the 
morning parboil the beans, and at the same time, in another 
dish, parboil a piece of salt pork about three inches long and 
wide and thick; drain off the water from the beans and pork; 
put both together in a deep pan with the pork at the top; 
season with one tab espoonful of molasses, and bake for sev- 
eral hours ; add a little water when they are put in to bake. 

LAMB STEWED WITH PEAS. 

Cut the scrag or breast of lamb in pieces, and put in a stew- 
pan, with just water enough to cover it. Cover the pan and let 
it simmer or stew for twenty minutes. Take off the scum, add 
a tablespoon salt and a quart of shelled peas. Cover the stew- 
pan, and let them stew for half an hour. Mix a tablespoon of 
flour with a quarter pound butter and stir with the stew. Let 
it simmer for ten minutes. Serve with new potatoes boiled; 
add a little mace and pepper, if you like these flavors. 

TEAL CROQUETTES. 

Take very fine minced veal, moisten it with cream and a 
beaten egg; season with salt, sweet marjoram and a little 
pounded mace ; form into small cones either by hand or in a 
wine glass; crumb the outside and fry, or else set in the oven 
and bake, basting frequently. 

RICE CROQUETTES. 

Boil half a pound of rice till quite soft and dry, mix with it a 
tablespoonful of grated cheese, with a small teaspoonful of 

& 


GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 



Shallow Stew Pans. 4 Sizes. Colanders. 4 Sizes. 



Stove Sauce Pans, i Sizes. 



Beaded Strong Sauce Pans. 6 Sizes. 



Fry Pans. 9 Sizes. Mixing Bowls. 5 Sizes. 

32 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 33 


ENTREES — continued. 

powdered mace, and sufficient butter to moisten it. Take a 
portion the size of a hen’s egg, and shape it into the form of a 
pear or egg. Brush over with yolk of egg, and roll in cracker 
or bread crumbs. Fry these croquettes in boiling lard. Very 
good may be made without the cheese, substituting the yolks 
of several eggs with the addition of a little more butter, when 
they may also be fried, if you choose, in little round' fiat 
cakes. 

MEAT CROQUETTES. 

Use cold roast beef, chop it fine, season with pepper and salt, 
add one-third the quantity of bread crumbs, and moisten with 
a little milk; have your hands floured, rub the meat into balls, 
dip it into beaten egg, then into fine pulverized cracker, and 
fry in butter; garnish with parsley. 


CROQUETTE. 

Take cold veal, chicken, or sweat-breads, a little of each, or 
separately, cut very fine a little fat and lean of ham, half the 
quantity of the whole of bread crumbs, two eggs, butter the 
size of an egg, pepper, salt, and a little mustard. Knead like 
sausage meat, adding a little cream; form in any shape, dip in 
egg, and then roll in cracker crumbs ; fry in lard until a light 
brown. Dry them in the oven. Celery or mushrooms are an 
improvement. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 


One cold, boiled chicken, chopped fine; then take a pint of 
sweet milk, and when the milk is boiled, stir into it two large 
tablespoonsful of flour, made thin in a little cold milk ; after 
the flour is well cooked with the milk, put in a piece of butter 
the size of an egg, add salt and cayenne pepper; stir all well 
into the chicken; roll up with your hand, and dip first into an 
egg beaten up, then into crackers rolled fine, and fry in hot 
hot tallow (fresh tallow, half and half lard, is very nice). 


* 


-m 


2 



34 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 


ENTREES — continued. 

, SWISS MEAT OMELETTES. 

A good way to use cold meats. Cold meat chopped fine with 
raisins, alispice, nutmeg, salt, lemon peel and juice. Add one 
egg, one teaspoonful sugar, cloves. The above mixture is the 
middle of the omelettes. Three eggs, one pint milk, two tea- 
cupfuls flour; make the hatter thin. Fry in a little lard; put a 
spoonful of the chopped meat in the centre and fold the batter 
around it once. 

BEEF OMELETTE. 

Four pounds of round beef, uncooked, chopped fine; six 
eggs beaten together; five or six soda crackers rolled fine; little 
butter and suet, pepper, salt and sage, if you choose ; make 
two loaves, roll in cracker; bake about an hour; slice when 
cold. 

TOMATO OMELETTE. 

One quart of tomatoes, chopped finely (after the skin is re- 
moved), and. put into a sauce-pan with two finely-chopped 
onions, a little butter, salt and pepper, one cracker pounded 
finely, cover tight, and let it simmer about an hour; beat five 
eggs to a froth; have your griddle hot; grease it well ; stir 
your eggs into the tomato, beat together, and pour into the 
griddle; brown on one side, fold, and brown on the other. To 
be served hot. 

OYSTER OMELETTE. 

Allow for every six large oysters or twelve small ones, one 
egg, remove the hard part and mince the rest very fine ; take 
the yolks of eight eggs and whites of four, beat till very light, 
then mix in the oysters, season and beat up all thoroughly; put 
into a skillet a gill of butter, let it melt; when the butter boils, 
skim it and turn in the omelette, stir untii it stiffens, fry light 
brown; when the under side is brown, turn on to a hot platter. 
If wanted the upper side brown, hold a red-hot shovel over it. 




■8 



8 - 


* 

Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 35 


PUDDINGS. 

STRAWBERRY SAUCE. 

Rub half a cup of butter and one cup of sugar to a cream ; 
add the beaten white of an egg, and one cup of strawberries 
thoroughly mashed. 

CHOCOLATE PUFFS. 

One pound sugar sifted, one of chocolate chopped very fine; 
mix together; beat the white of an egg, and stir in your choco- 
late and sugar; continue to beat until stiff paste; sugar your 
paper, drop them on it, and bake in a slow oven. 

SARATOGA PUDDING. 

Mix four tablespoonfuls of corn starch in one quart cold milk. 
Stir until it boils. When cool, stir in two tablespoonfuls white 
sugar, six eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately. Put in a 
large pudding-dish, place in a pan of water, bake one and a 
half hours. 

Sauce.— One cup sugar, half cup butter, the yolks of two 
eggs, one glass wine. Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add 
eggs and half the wine. Put the dish in boiling water, stir ten 
minutes, add the rest of the wine, and serve. 

RHUBARB PUDDING. 

Line your pudding-dish with slices of bread and butter, cover 
with cut up rhubarb, strewed with sugar, then slices of bread 
and butter, and so on alternately until your dish is full, having 
the rhubarb and sugar on top ; cover with a plate and bake half 
an hour. Eat it warm. 

FIG PUDDING. 

One-fourth pound of figs chopped fine, one-fourth pound 
bread-crumbs, one-fourth pound sugar (brown), one-fourth 
pound suet, one-fourth pound candied lemon peel and citron, 
one nutmeg, and five eggs ; mix thoroughly, put into a mould, 
and boil or steam four hours. 



■» 



36 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

PLUM PUDDING. 


One pint chopped suet, one pint sour apples, one pint raisins, 
one pint currants, one-half pint sugar, one-half pint sweet 
milk, one cup of citron; heat eight eggs and mix with the 
above, and add sufficient flour to make it stick together; boil 
three hours in a cloth bag. Serve with brandy sauce. 


FROSTED LEMON PUDDING, 


Take a pint of bread or cake crumbs, a quart of milk, the 
juice and grated peel of a lemon, the yoljs of three eggs, and 
sweeten to the taste. When baked, cover over with jelly, 
make a frosting of the whites of the eggs and sugar, pour over 
the top, and set in the oven a few minutes to brown. 


MARTEN PUDDING 


One teaspoon of salt, one cup suet, one cup milk, one cup 
sugar, three cups flour, two or three eggs, one cup raisins, one 
cup currants, one-fourth lb. citron, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar or baking powder; boil steadily for two 
hours; it can then stand back and simmer for any length of 
time you choose to leave it. 


APPLE TAPIOCA PUDDING 


One cup of tapioca soaked over night in six cups of water; 
next morning add about six large tart apples, chopped very 
fine, (or more, according to the size,) then one cup of white 
sugar; bake slowly about four hours; to be eaten either warm 
or cold, with cream. Very delicate for invalids. Or you can 
pour the tapioca over whole cored apples. 


COTTAGE PUDDING. 


One cup of sugar; one tablespoonful of butter; two eggs; 
one cup sweet milk; three cups flour, or enough to make a 
tolerably stiff batter; one-half teaspoon of soda; one teaspoon 
of cream tartar, sifted with the flour; one teaspoon of salt. 


*■ 





i 

3 i 

Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 37 

B 


PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

Rub the butter and sugar together, beat in the yolks, then the 
milk and soda, the salt and the beaten whites, alternately with 
the flour. Bake in a buttered mould; turn out upon a dish ; 
cut iu slices, and eat with liquid sauce. This is simple, but 
very nice pudding. 

RICE PUDDING WITHOUT EGGS. 

Two quarts of milk, half a teacup of rice, a little less than a 
teacup of sugar, the same quantity of raisins, a teaspoon of 
cinnamon or allspice ; wash the rice and put it with the rest 
of the ingredients into the milk; bake rather slowly frcm two 
to three hours; stir two or three times the first hour of baking. 

If properly done, this pudding is delicious. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One quart milk, three tablespoons sugar, four tablespoons 
corn starch, two and a half tablespoons chocolate; scald the 
milk over boiling water; dissolve the corn starch in a little 
scalded milk, and before it thickens add the chocolate dissolved 
in boiling water; stir until sufficiently cooked. Use with 
cream, or sauce of butter and sugar stirred to a cream. 

SNOW PUDDING. 

One-half package Coxe’s gelatine; pour over it a cup of cold 
water and add one and one-half caps of sugar; when soft, add 
one cup boiling water, juice of one lemon and the whites of 
four well beaten eggs ; beat all together until very light ; put in 
glass dish and pour over it custard made as follows: One pint 
milk, yolks of four eggs and grated rind of one lemon; boil. 
Splendid 

PUFF PUDDING. 

One cup sour cream, soda and salt as for biscuit; stir in flour 
till e tiff as you can stir; then spread in a two quart pudding- 
pan, set in the oven and let it brown; take three nice tart 
apples, stewed smooth; add one tablespoonful of butter, one- 

3, 


SJ £ 


IS 

8 

38 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 

i 

* 

PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

half cup sugar, yolk of one egg ; put the mixture in the pudding 
pan and return to the oven ; when done, beat the white of an 
egg in two tablespoons of sugar ; season to taste, then return 
to oven and let the top brown again. To be eaten with sauce 
or cream. 

CREAM PUDDING. 

Beat together half a pint of cream, an ounce and a half of 
sugar, the yolks of three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg. 
Beat the whites stiff, and stir in the last thing— stirring lightly. 
Sprinkle some fine crumbs of stale bread over a well-buttered 
plate, about the thickness of common pastry. Pour in the 
beaten eggs, cream and sugar, cover the top with more fine 
bread crumbs, and bake. 

BREEZE PUDDING. 

Dissolve one-half a box of gelatine in a pint of boiling water; 
add two cupfuls of sugar and the juice of two lemons ; after this 
has become cool (not cold), break into it the whites of three 
eggs; beat all to a stiff froth; make a soft custard with the 
yolks of the eggs, adding three other and a quart of milk; pour 
the whites into moulds, and, when ready for use, turn them out, 
pouring the custard over. 

DELMONICO PUDDING. 

A quart of milk, three tablespoonfuls corn starch. Mix the 
starch with cold water, and stir into the boiling milk. Mix six 
tablespoonfuls of white sugar with the yolks of five eggs and 
pour into the starch. Put into a pudding dish, and bake. Beat 
the whites of five eggs with six tablespoonfuls of sugar, and 
flavor with vanilla; drop with a spoon on the Dudding, and 
brown slightly in the oven. 

TRANSPARENT PUDDING. 

Beat eight eggs very well ; put them into a stew pan, with 
half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity of butter, 

3 8 

3 



GKANITE IKON KITCHEN GOODS 



Seamless Water 
Buckets, with Foot. 
7 Sizes. 



Seamless Covered 
Buckets. 8 Sizes 



Lipped Water 
1 Size. 



Seamless Water 
Buckets. 7 Sizes. 



Seamless Flaring 
Water Pails. 

6 Sizes. 



39 



40 Granite Iron Ware Conk Book. 


PUDDINGS — CONTINUED. 

and some nutmeg grated; set it on the fire, and keep stirring it 
till it thickens ; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the 
dish; pour in the pudding when cool, and bake it in a moderate 
oven. It will cut light and plear. You may add candied 
orange and citron if you like. 

APPLE PUDDING. 

Pare eight or nine juicy apples and core them whole. Put 
them into a pudding-dish half filled with water, cover closely 
and set into the oven until tender. Drain off the water, fill each 
apple with jelly, and season with any spice preferred. Let 
them stand until cool. Scald one pint of milk, into which stir 
one-half pound of macaroons pounded fine, a little salt, a table- 
spoonful of corn starch, three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Boil 
all together a minute or two, and when cool beat in the whites 
of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth. Pour over the apples 
and bake twenty or thirty minutes. Eat with cream. 

THE QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One and one-half cup white sugar ; two cups fine dry bread 
crumbs; five eggs; one tablespoon of butter; vanilla, rose- 
water, or lemon seasoning; one quart fresh rich milk, and one- 
half cup jelly or jam. Rub the butter into a cup of sugar; beat 
the yolks very light, and stir these together to a cream. The 
bread crumbs, soaked in milk, come next, then the seasoning. 
Bake this in a buttered pudding-dish— a large one and but two- 
thirds full — until the custard is “ set . 11 Draw to the mouth of 
the oven, spread over with jam or other nice fruit-conserve. 
Cover this with a meringue made of the whipped whites and 
half a cup of sugar. Shut the oven and bake until the maringue 
begins to color. Eat cold, with cream. You may, in straw- 
berry season, substitute the fresh fruit for preserves. It is then 
truly delightful. 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


41 


» 


■* 


SALADS. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Small onions sliced and cold boiled potatoes, over which 
pour the simple dressing. 

TRAVELING LUNCH. 

Chop sardines, ham and a few pickles quite fine; mix with 
mustard, pepper, catsup, salt and vinegar; spread between 
b^ead nicely buttered. This is to be cut crosswise, like 
jelly cake. 

DRESSING FOR SAL ID. 

Two raw eggs, one tablespoon of butter, eight tablespoons 
of vinegar, one-half teaspoon of mustard; put in a bowl over 
boiling water and stir until it becomes like cream; pepper and 
salt to your taste 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Twelve tomatoes, peeled and sliced; four eggs, boiled hard; 
one egg (raw) well beaten; one teaspoon salt; one-half teaspoon 
cayenne pepper; one teaspoon sugar; one teacup of vinegar; 
set on ice to become perfectly cold. 

LETTUCE SALADS. 

Serve with simple dressing, and garnish with hard-boiled 
eggs. 

Lettuce, cold boiled potatoes, and cold boiled beets; potatoes 
in the centre, beets next, and lettuce around the edge of the 
dish. Simple dressing. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Two chickens, chopped coarse; eight heads of celery, three 
eggs, one pint vinegar, one tablespoon flour, one tablespoon 
sugar; rub the yolks of the eggs to a fine powder, then add the 
salt, mustard and oil, mixing well together; then add the 
cream, and after that the vinegar and raw egg. 




42 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


SALADS — CONTINUED. 

CELERY SALAD. 

One head of cabbage, theree bunches of celery, chopped 
very fine. Take one teacupful of vinegar, lump of butter size 
of an egg, yolks of two eggs; one teaspoonful mustard, one of 
salt, pinch of cayenne pepper, two teaspoonfuls of sugar. Mix 
these well; put the mixture on the stove and heat until it thick- 
ens, stirring all the time; when cold, add two tablespoonfuls 
of rich sweet cream. Pour over the salad; if not moist enough, 
add cold vinegar. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

To a three-pound lobster take the yolk of one raw egg, beat 
very lightly, then take the yolks of thre'e hard boiled eggs (cold), 
and add to the raw yolk, beating all the time ; add, gradually, 
a few drops at a time, one-half bottle of the finest olive oil, 
still stirring all the time, then add one and a half tablespoonfuls 
of the best English mustard, salt and pepper to taste ; beat the 
mixture until light, add a tablespoonful of strong vinegar. 
Cut the lobster into small pieces and mix with it salt and 
pepper, pour over it the dressing just before sending to the 
table; garnish with the white of egg (boiled), celery tops, and 
the small claws. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

Take the yolks of two raw eggs, beat them with one teaspoon 
of made mustard; this mustard should be mixed with water, 
not vinegar; then add to this, drop by drop, olive oil, stirring 
constantly until the mixture becomes very thick; then add 
two teaspoons of powdered sugar and a scant one of salt; mix 
thoroughly; squeeze in the juice of one lemon; beat well, and 
if too thick, thin with a little sweet cream. If preferred, omit 
the lemon and cream, and use vinegar. This dressing with 
lettuce, celery, or potato, makes a delicious salad. If needed 
for chicken salad, the yolks of hard boiled eggs added make it 
richer. Garnish lettuce with nasturtium blossoms and sliced 
lemon. Garnish potatoes with cold boiled beets, chopped pars- 
ley and sliced lemon. 

m- 


•8S 


* * 

Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 43 


CAKES. 

CURRANT CAKE. 

One and one-half pounds of flour, one pound sugar, three- 
fourths pound butter, seven eggs, one gill milk, one-half tea- 
spoon saleratus, one pound currants. 

GOLD CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, 
nutmeg, three cups flour, yolks of six eggs. 

SILTER CAKE. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup 
sweet milk, one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
whites of six eggs beaten to a froth, and three cups flour. 

POUND CAKE. 

One pound of flour, one of sugar, ten eggs; beat the yolks 
and sugar together ; add one pound of butter, putting in the 
whites beaten to a froth, and the flour last. Very nice, baked 
in small patty pans and frosted. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, two-thirds of a cup 
of butter, one cup of sour milk, three eggs, one teaspoonful 
soda, one teaepoonful nutmeg, one and one-half teaspoonfuls 
cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cloves, three cups of flour. 

MACAROONS. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of shelled almonds, and the 
whites of four eggs. Put the almonds into hot water until the 
skins will slip off easily; then dry, and beat them to a paste 
with a little rose water or oil of lemon to prevent their oiling. 
Beat the eggs till perfectly dry and light before putting them 
to the above, and bake in small cakes in a slow oven. 

2 < 


80 



* * 

44 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


CAKES — CONTINUED. 

DATE CAKE. 

Two cupfuls of brown 6ugar, a cupful of molasses, a cupful 
of butter, a cupful of cider, three eggs, a teaspoonful each of 
cinnamon and cloves, a little nutmeg, a teaspoonful of soda, a 
pound of dates stoned and chopped, and flour to mix pretty stiff. 

FRENCH FROSTING. 

Take half a pound of powdered sugar, and four spoonfuls rose 
water, the juice of one lemon, and the whites of two eggs. 
Beat all well together; cover the cake when half cold with a 
paste brush. Set in a cool oven to dry the icing. It will be 
solid in one hour. 

JELLY ROLLS. 

Three cupfuls of sugar, one cupful of butter, five cupfuls of 
flour, one cupful of milk, five eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, two 
of cream tartar; bake in thin sheets, spread with currant jelly, 
and roll when cold, or in round, thin cakes, and spread, laying 
three or four cakes one upon another. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

One-half cup sour cream, one-half cup butter, two and one-half 
cups flour, one cup white sugar, the whites of five eggs, two- 
thirds teaspoon soda; prepare another mixture, except substi- 
tuting dark sugar for white, and the yolks instead of the whites; 
fill a tin with alternate layers of each, and bake. 

CREAM CAKE. 

Three eggs, one cup of sugar (white), one and one-halt cups 
flour, three tablespoons of water, one teaspoon baking powder ; 
bake in two ordinary pie tins; when done, split open and fill 
with the following cream: one pint of sweet milk, one cup 
sugar; put over the fire; let it coine to the boiling point and 
add two eggs, well beaten, two tablespoons of corn starch dis- 
solved in a little milk, butter the size of an egg; boil and 
stir quickly so as not to scorch ; add lemon or vanilla flavoring. 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 45 


CAKES —CONTINUED. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Twelve egg s, one pound of flour, one pound sugar, one pound 
butter, two pounds raisins, two pounds currants, one pound 
citron, two tablespoons cinnamon, four nutmegs, one cup sweet 
milk, one cup molasses, one teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon 
soda, one gill brandy. Bake two hours or more. 

CORN STARCH CAKE 

One cup of butter worked to a cream, with two cups of sugar, 
one cup milk, two cups flour, in which is sifted one large tea- 
spoonful of yeast powder; the whites only of six eggs, beaten 
to a froth. Mix all these well, and then add one cup corn 
starch. Beat well, and bake in a moderate oven. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

One cup dried apples soaked over night, then steamed until 
soft; put them into a cup of molasses and simmer slowly till 
well cooked; when cool add one egg, one-half cup of sugar, 
one-half cup of butter, one-half cup of milk, two and a half cups 
of flour, one teaspoon soda, two of cream tartar, and spice 
to taste. 

PINE-APPLE SHORT-CAKE. 

A couple of hours before bringing the cake on the table taxe 
a very ripe, finely flavored pine-apple, peel it, cut as thin as 
wafers, and sprinkle sugar over it liberally, then cover it close. 
For the short cake take sufficient flour for one pie-dish, of 
butter the size of a small egg, a tablespoonful or two of sugar, 
the yolk of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder, a very 
little salt, and milk enough to make a very soft dough. Do not 
knead the dough, but just barely mix it, and press it into the 
pie-plate. The baking powder and butter, sugar and salt, 
should be rubbed well through the flour, and the other ingredi- 
ents then quickly added. When time to serve, split the cake, 
spread the prepared pine apple between the layers, and serve 
with nothing but sugar and sweet cream. 





GRANITE IKON KITCHEN GOODS. 



Dish Pans. 7 Sizes. Turban Cake Moulds, Oval Pudding Pans. 

with Tut es. 4 Sizes. 5 Sizes. 



Shallow Octagon Cake Cake Pans, Shallow Octagon Cake 

Moulds, without with Tubes. 4 Sizes. Moulds, with Tubes. 
Tubes. 5 Sizes. 5 Sizes. 



Straight Cake Pans, Octagon Cake Moulds, Mountain Cake Pans, 
with Tubes. 4 Sizes. with Tubes. 5 Sizes. 3 Sizes. 



Round Bake Pans. Turban Cake Moulds, Octagon Cake Moulds, 
9 Sizes. without Tubes. without Tubes. 

4 Sizes. 5 Sizes. 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 47 


CAKES — CONTINUED. 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE. 

Eight eggs, ten ounces of sugar, half pound of flour, the juice 
and grating of one lemon; separate the eggs, beat the yolks, 
sugar and lemon until thick and light; whisk the whites until 
dry, which add with the flour, half of each at a time ; mix all 
together, but avoid beating; butter your pan well and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

ICING. 

One pound pulverized sugar, pour over one tablespoon cold 
water, beat whites of three eggs a little, not to a stiff froth ; add 
to the sugar and water; put in a deep bowl ; place in a vessel of 
boiling water, and heat. It will become thin and clear, after- 
ward begin to thicken. When it becomes quite thick remove 
from the fire and stir while it becomes cool till thick enough to 
spread with a knife. This will frost several ordinary sized 
cakes. 

WHITE CAKE. 

Three cups of sifted flour, one and one-half cups of sugar, 
one cup of sweet milk, one egg, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
two teaspoonfuls of cream tartar, one teaspoonful of soda, and 
a little essence of lemon. Beat the butter and sugar to a 
cream, then add the milk (in which the soda should be dis- 
solved), the egg well beaten, and the essence. Mix with the 
above two cups of the flour, and lastly, add the third cup in 
which the cream tartar has been stirred. Then bake in pans 
or basins in a quick oven. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

One pound powdered sugar, one-half pound best butter 
rubbed to a cream; add to this one-half pound grated chocolate, 
and beat all together very light; eight eggs, very fresh, and 
also beaten very light; juice of one large lemon, one large 
tablespoonful vanilla extract, one and one-half cupfuls milk, 
sifted flour with baking powder, added before sifting, to make 
a batter that will break off clean when held up in the spoon, as 



* * 

48 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 

CAKES — CONTINUED. 

pound cake does. You may take sufficient dough from this to 
bake one cake in a jelly-cake pan, having ordinary cake for the 
top and bottom layers, with jelly or cocoanut between. 

LADY FINGERS. 

Four ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, mix well ; three 
ounces of flour, a little salt. Beat the four whites to a stiff 
froth, stir the whites into the mixture a little at a time until 
all is in. Butter a shallow pan. Squirt through a confection- 
er’s syringe or a little piece of paper rolled up. Dust with 
sugar, and bake in a not too hot oven. 

YARIEGATED CAKES. 

One cup powdered sugar, one-half cup of butter creamed with 
the sugar, one-half cup of milk, four eggs, the whites only, 
whipped light, two and a half cups of prepared flour. Bitter- 
almond flavoring, spinach-juice and cochineal. Cream butter 
and sugar; add the milk, flavoring the whites and flour. 
Divide the batter into three parts. Bruise and pound a few 
leaves of spinach in thin muslin bag until you can express the 
juice. Put a few drops of this into one portion of the batter, 
color another with cochineal, leaving the third white. Put a 
little of each into small, round pans or cups, giving a light stir 
to each color as you add the next. This will vein the cakes 
prettily. Put the white between the pink and green, that the 
tints may show better. If you can get pistachio nuts to pound 
up for the green the cakes will be much nicer. Ice on sides 
and top. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT-CAKE. 

Take a coffee-cup of cream or sour milk, beat into it a little salt 
and a small teaspoonful of soda, and before it stops foaming 
stir in enough flour to enable you to roll it out, but be sure not 
to get it very stiff. Roll into three circles, spread butter on top 
of each, and place one on top of the other. Bake till well done, 
then pull the three layers apart, butter one and cover with straw- 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 49 


CAKES — CONTINUED. 

berries, then butter the second and lay (crust downward) over 
the first. Pile more strawberries on the second, and cover with 
a third crust, which need not be heaped with berries unless pre- 
ferred. Set in the oven a few^ minutes and then serve hot with 
cream. Before making the crust, stir into three pints of ripe, 
rich strawberries a coffee-cup of granulated sugar, and leave it 
covered over till the crust is done. If cream or sour milk is 
not plenty use sweet milk, and sift into the flour two teaspoon- 
fuls (scant) of baking powder, and as you roll out spread on 
three tablespoonfuls of ice-cold butter. Pounded ice is excel- 
lent eaten on top of a saucer of sugared berries. Wrap the ice 
in a clean, coarse towel, and pound with the flat part of a 
hatchet. 

WATERMELON CAKE. 

One and a half cupfuls of sugar, the whites of four fresh 
eggs, half a cupful of sour milk, half a cupful of butter, two 
cupfuls of flour. Cream the butter and sugar well together; 
then add the milk, with not quite half a teaspoonful of soda; 
immediately afterward stir in a little flour, then a little egg, and 
so on until all the ingredients are added. The eggs must, of 
course, be beaten until very light. Take one and a half cupfuls 
of pink sugar (any good confectioner can supply it), half a 
cupful of sour milk, not quite a teaspoonful of soda, and two 
cupfuls of flour. Flavor the pink part with anything you 
prefer; rose water is much used. Seed one-quarter of a pound 
of good raisins; after you have them prepared, rub them well 
into a little flour, when your cake will not be so apt to fall. 
After your dough of both kinds is ready, spread well the bottom 
and sides of your pan with the white dough ; fill up with the pink, 
leaving enough of the white to cover over entirely. Be very 
particular in baking, and be sure it is well done before remov- 
ing it from the pan. This is a very popular cake with young 
people especially, and is both delicious and a good imitation of 
watermelon. 


»■ 


* 




50 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 


PIES, TARTS, ETC. 


PEACH CUSTARD PIE. 


Use one crust; peel peaches a^d halve them, and turn the 
hollow side upward ; sweeten as you would a peach pie ; take 
one egg, a pinch of salt, one tablespoonful of sugar; beat; add 
milk enough to cover the peaches; bake. Eat when partly 
cool. Canned peaches will answer as well as fresh. 


LEMON CREAM PIE. 


One teacup powdered sugar, one tablespoon better, one egg, 
juice and grated rind of one lemon, one teacup boiling water, 
one tablespoon corn starch dissolved in cold water; stir the 
corn starch into the hot water ; add the butter and sugar well 
beaten together; when cold, add the lemon and beaten egg. 
Bake in open tart without top crust. 


LEMON PIE. 


Six eggs (less two whites), two cups of white sugar, a little 
salt, one cup of sweet milk, two tablespoons of corn starch dis- 
solved in the milk, two large lemons, juice and rind; bake 
slowly until set. Meringue for the top: whites of two eggs 
beaten with six tablespoons of powdered sugar; bake to a light 
brown, after having spread over the surface of the pie. 


BOSTON CREAM PIE. 


Cream part: one pint of new milk, two eggs, three table- 
spoonfuls of sifted flour, five tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put 
two-thirds of the milk on to boil and stir the sugar and flour in 
what is left. When the re?t boils put in the whole and stir 
until it cooks thoroughly. When cool, flavor with vanilla or 
lemon. Crust part : three eggs, beaten separately, one cup of 
granulated sugar, one and a half cups of sifted flour, one tea- 
spoonful of baking powder. Divide in half; put in two pie 
tins, and bake in a quick oven to a straw color. When taken 
out, split in halves and spread the cream between. 



* 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 51 


PIES, TARTS, ETC. —continued. 

ECONOMICAL PIE CRUST. 

When boiling beef, before you put in vegetables, skim the 
grease into a dish, and set aside to cool. When cold, scrape off 
the under side. Take one teacup of melted beef fat, two cups 
of sour milk, two teaspoonfuls of saleratus; mix quickly; flour 
your board well when you roll it out. Bake in a quick oven, 
brown it a little, and you will admit it to be better than when 
shortened with lard. 

COCOANUT PIE. 

One-half pound grated cocoanut, three-fourths pound white 
sugar, six ounces butter, whites of five eggs, one glass white 
wine, two tablespoons rose water— but wine and rose water 
may be omitted ; one teaspoon nutmeg. Beat butter and sugar 
well ; add the cocoanut with as little beating as possible ; then 
whip in the stiffened whites of the eggs quickly and deftly, and 
bake in open shells. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Three eggs, three-fourths cup white sugar, two tablespoons 
butter, juice and grated rind of one-half an orange, juice and 
grated rind of one-half a lemon, nutmeg to taste. Beat butter 
and sugar together well, then beat in the yolks of the eggs, and 
the orange and lemon; put into pastry without top crust, and 
bake. When done, spread over them the whites of the eggs, 
beaten stiff with pow r dered sugar, and return to the oven for a 
few minutes to brown. 

CREAM PIE. 

One cup of flour, one cup of sugar, three or four eggs (the 
whites and yolks beaten separately and well), half a teaspoon of 
soda, and one of cream of tartar ; beat the eggs to a stiff froth ; 
add the sugar, which should be of fine quality, and then the 
flour sifted with the soda and cream of tartar. Pour this into 
four common-sized pie tins, and bake. It will be sufficient for 
two pies. Cream : make a nice custard of one pint of milk, 
three eggs and one tablespoon of corn starch, cooking the 
custard in a tin kettle of hot water ; before mixing in the corn 



* * 

52 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 

PIES, TARTS, ETC. — continued. 
starch, wet it with milk, and add the eggs and sugar; then stir 
into the boiling milk; flavor to taste, and when cold spread 
between two layers of the crust. 

HELEN’S TART SHELLS. 

Take two-thirds of a cupful of lard, one tablespoonful of 
white sugar, five tablespoonfuls of cold water, and the white of 
an egg well beaten. Mould like pie-crust, ctit out with your 
tart-shell cutter, and bake. 

LEMON TARTS. 

Grate two whole lemons, add two cups sugar* three well- 
beaten eggs, piece of butter half the size of an egg. Mix the 
ingredients thoroughly and place over the fire, stirring till it 
boils up, and then set away to cool. This will keep all winter, 
and can be used for tarts any time by making nice crust. 

POLISH TARTLETS. 

Roll some good puff-paste out thin, and cut it into two and a 
half inch squares, brush each square over with the white of an 
egg, then fold down the corners, so that they all meet in the 
middle of each piece of paste ; slightly press the two pieces 
together, brush them over with the egg; sift over sugar; bake 
in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour; when they are done, 
make a little hole in the middle and fill with jam or jelly. 

LIGHT PASTE FOR TARTS AND CHEESECAKES. 

Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it with 
as much water as will make three-fourths of a pound of fine 
flour into a very stiff paste; roll it very thin, then lay the third 
part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits; dredge it 
with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll it 
out again, and put the same proportion of butter, and so pro- 
ceed till all be worked up. 


* 


GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS. 



Oblong Trays. 3 Sizes. Pie Plate. 1 Size. 



Seamless Oblong Pans. Soup Bowl. Seamless Square Pans. 
5 Sizes. ' 1 Size. 5 Sizes. 



Oval Trays. 8 Sizes. Pie Plates. 4 Sizes. 



Oval Meat Dishes. Tart Pan. 1 Size. Round Trays. 

4 Sizes. 2 Sizes. 



Soup Plate. 1 Size. Egg Pans. 9 Sizes. 



Jelly Cake Pans. Lettered Plate. Dinner Plates. 

2 Sizes. ISize. 4 Sizes. 

53 



88 : 88 

54 Granite Iron Ware Cook * Book. 


ICES, CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. 

MILK LEMONADE. 

A pound and a half of loaf sugar dissolved in a quart of boil- 
ing water with half a pint of lemon juice, and a pint and a half 
of milk added. 

LEMON JELLY. 

Grate the outsides of two lemons, and squeeze the juice ; add 
one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, yolks of three eggs ; beat the 
last three ingredients thoroughly, then add the juice and grated 
rind, and put it over the fire, stirring until thick ; mould to 
fancy. Or one paper of gelatine; let it stand one hour in warm 
water; then add one quart of boiling water, the juice of three 
or four lemons and a pint and a half of sugar. 

WINE AND ORANGE JELLY. 

One half pint sherry wine, one-half pint cold water, one-half 
package gelatine, juice of two lemons and grated peel of one; 
one orange; one pint boiling water. Soak gelatine in cold 
water one-half hour, add to this sugar to taste and the lemons. 
Pour over all the boiling water, and stir until the gelatine is 
dissolved; put in the wine; strain through flannel bag into 
mould. Peel and slice orange, and drop slices into the mould 
also. By omitting the orange you have wine jelly. 

CREAM NECTAR. 

To one gallon of boiling water add four pounds of granulated 
sugar and five ounces tartaric acid. Beat the whites of three 
eggs, and pour into a bottle with a little of the warm syrup; 
shake briskly; then pour it into the kettle of syrup, and stir it 
through well. Boil three minutes, removing the scum as it 
rises. Flavor with any preferred extract, and bottle for use. 
When wanted for use, take two or three tablespoonfuls of the 
syrup to a tumbler of ice-cold water, and one-half teaspoon 
of soda. 




Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 55 


ICES, CREAMS, JELLIES, ETC. — continued. 

APPLE SOUFFLE. 

Stew the apples; add a little grated lemon peel and juice; 
line the sides and bottom of the dish about two inches thick. 
Make a boiled custard with one pint of milk and two eggs; 
when it is cool, pour it into the centre of the dish. Beat the 
whites of the eggs and spread it over the top ; sprinkle sugar 
over it, and bake a few minutes in the oven. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 

Soak one of Coxe’s English gelatine (in cold water sufficient 
to cover) one hour; one quart of milk boiled; scrape two ounces 
of French chocolate, mix with eight spoons of white sugar; 
moisten this with three spoons of the boiling milk; then stir in 
the gelatine and the yolks of ten well beaten eggs; stir three 
minutes briskly; take off, strain and add two teaspoons of 
vanilla; strain, and put in moulds to cool. Serve with sugar 
and cream. 

ICES. 

What are termed ices consist simply of the juices of fruits 
sweetened with sugar syrup and then frozen, like ice cream. 
It is stated that the best ices are made by first cooking the sugar 
into the form of a syrup, having a strength of thirty degrees. The 
fruit juices are strained through a sieve and then added, with a 
little water and the whites of a few eggs, to the prepared syrup. 
The final mixture should have a consistence of twenty-two 
degrees. It is then frozen in the usual way. 

ICE CREAM. 

With every quart of the cream mix six ounces best pulverized 
white sugar, a very little vanilla bean, and the white of an egg. 
The latter imparts a smoothness and delicacy to the cream that 
can not otherwise be obtained. The prepared mixture is then 
to be stirred in the freezer until it is entirely congealed. 
Instead of vanilla as a flavor for the cream, a trifling amount of 
any desired flavoring syrup or juice may be used, as strawberry, 
pine-apple, lemon, orange, etc. 



56 Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


CUSTARDS. 

FLOATING ISLAND. 

One-half package gelatine, one pint of water; soak twenty 
minutes ; add two cups of sugar, set it on the stove to come to 
aboil; when nearly cold, add the whites of four eggs beaten 
stiff, the juice and rind of two lemons, and pour into a mould ; 
turn over the form. Make a custard of the yolks of four eggs, 
a quart of milk, and a small tablespoon of corn starch, sweet- 
ened to taste. 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD. 

Three ounces Baker’s chocolate, three pints of milk, four 
tablespoons white sugar, two tablespoons brown sugar ; pre- 
pare a soft custard of the milk and the yolks of five eggs and 
the white of one; dissolve the chocolate in a cup of warm milk 
and heat it to boiling point; when cool, sweeten it with brown 
sugar and flavor with the extract of vanilla; pour the whole 
into a dish and cover with the whites of the five ezgs beaten 
stiff, with a little sugar; brown slightly and serve cold. 

BAKED CUSTARD. 

Beat the yolks of four fresh eggs for at least half an hour ; add 
five ounces of pulverized white sugar ; then stir into the sugar 
and eggs one quart of rich new milk, cold. Add a teaspoonful 
of distilled rose water, or any flavoring extract you fancy. Fill 
your custard cups, and then set them in a stone pan half filled 
with water, which may be warm at first — not hot. Put the pan 
in a rather cool oven, and gradually increase to a moderate 
heat. In about twenty minutes dip a teaspoon into one of the 
custards to ascertain if it is firm. 


CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 

Whip one quart rich cream to a stiff froth, and drain well on 
a nice sieve. To one scant pint of milk add six eggs beaten 
very light; make very sweet; flavor high with vanilla. Cook 
over hot water till it is a thick custard. Soak one full ounce 


88 - 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 57 


CUSTARDS — CONTINUED. 

gelatine in a very little water, and warm over hot water. When 
the custard is very cold, beat in lightly the gelatine and the 
whipped cream. Line the bottom of your mould with buttered 
paper, the sides with sponge cake or lady fingers fastened 
together with the white of an egg. Fill with the cream, put 
in a cold place, or in summer on ice. To turn out, dip the 
mould for a moment in hot water. In draining the whipped 
cream, all that drips through can be re-whipped. 

FRUIT BLANC-MANGE. 

Stew nice fresh fruit (cherries and raspberries being the best); 
i strain off the juice, and sweeten to taste; place it over the fire 
in a double kettle until it boils; while boiling stir in corn starch 
wet with a little cold water, allowing two tablespoonfuls of 
starch for each pint of juice; continue stirring until sufficiently 
cooked; then pour into moulds wet in cold water, and set away 
to cool. To be eaten with cream and sugar. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

One quart of milk, yolks of five eggs and the whites of seven 
(two for the meringue) , six tablespoons sugar, vanilla flavor- 
ing-one teaspoon to the pint. Heat the milk almost to boil- 
ing; beat the yolks light and stir in the sugar. Add the milk as 
follows : take the milk from the fire, and instead of pouring the 
beaten eggs in it, put a spoonful or two of the milk to them, beat- 
ing well all the while, adding more and more milk as you mix, 
until there is no longer danger of sudden curdling ; stir in five 
whites whipped stiff; return to the fire and stir until thick, but 
not until it breaks. Season it with vanilla; pour into glass 
cups; whip the whites of two eggs to a meringue with a heaping 
tablespoon of powdered sugar, and when the custard is cold, pile 
a little of this upon the top of each cup. You may lay a pre- 
served strawberry, or cherry, or a bit of melon sweetmeat, or a 
little bright jelly upon each. 





58 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


WAFFLES AND PUFFS. 


WAFFLES. 


One quart of milk slightly warmed, five cups of flour, three 
eggs well beaten, two-thirds of a cup of home-made yeast, or 
half a penny’s worth of bakers’, and half teaspoonful of salt. 
Set as sponge over night. In the morning add two tablespoon- 
fuls of melted butter. Have the waffle-irons very hot and well 
greased, and turn quickly to prevent scorching. 


RICE WAFFLES. 


One cupful of rice boiled down, three cupfuls of flour, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful of soda, and a piece of lard or butter the 
size of a walnut. The ingredients must all be prepared sep- 
arately, for negligence on the part of a cook will prevent the 
success of any recipe. Be sure to beat your eggs very light. 
See that every particle of soda is thoroughly dissolved, and that 
after it is added the baking be not delayed, lest the effervescing, 
properties of the soda be destroyed, and consequently the cakes 
heavy. This batter may be used in waffle-irons, or else baked 
like flannel cakes upon the open griddle. 


CORN MEAL PUFFS. 


One quart boiling milk, two scant cups white “corn flour,” 
one-hall cup wheat flour, one scant cup powdered sugar, a little 
salt, four eggs beaten light, one tablespoonful batter, one-half 
tablespoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one teaspoonful 
cream tartar sifted into flour, one-half teaspoonful mixed cin- 
namon and nutmeg. Boil the milk, and stir into it the meal, 
flour and salt. Boil fifteen minutes, stirring well up from the 
bottom. Put in the butter, and beat hard in a bowl for three 
minutes. When cold, put in the eggs, whipped light, with 
the sugar, the seasoning and soda. Whip up very faithfully; 
bake in greased cups in a steady oven. Turn out of cups, and 
eat with pudding sauce, or with butter alone. 





Granite Iron Ware Cook Book 


59 


«■ 


■* 


CANDIES. 

BUTTER SCOTCH. 

One cup of molasses, one cup of sugar, one-half cup of butter. 
Boil until done. 

ALMOND CANDY. 

Proceed in the same way as for cocoanut candy. Let the al- 
monds be perfectly dry, and do not throw them into the sugar 
until they approach the candyiug point. 


MAPLE CANDY. 

Four cups of maple sirup, boil until it cracks in water, and 
just before taking from the lire, put in a piece of butter the size 
of an egg. If preferred waxy, do not let it cook so long. 


SUGAR CANDY. 

Six cups of white sugar, one cup of vinegar, one cup of water- 
a tablespoonful of butter put in at the last, with one teaspoon, 
ful of soda dissolved in hot water. Boil without stirring one- 
half hour. Flavor to suit the taste. 

CREAM CANDY. 

Four cups of sugar, two caps of water, three-fourths of a cup 
of vinegar, one cup of cream or rich milk, a piece of butter the 
size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of vanilla, a pinch of soda. 
Let it boil until it cracks in water, then work very white. 

TO CANDY NUTS. 

Three cups of sugar, one cup of water; boil until it hardens 
when dropped in water, then flavor with lemon. It must not 
boil after the lemon is put in. Put a nut on the end of a fine 
knitting-needle, take out and turn on the needle until it is cool. 
If the candy gets cold, set on the stove for a few minutes. 
Malaga grapes and oranges, quartered, may be candied in the 
same way. 


* * 

GRANITE IRON KITCHEN GOODS, 



Cake Griddle. 1 Size. Cup and Saucer. 1 Size. Tumbler. 1 Size. 



Basting Spoons. 5 Sizes. Broiler. 1 Size. 



Cocoa Shape Dipper. Flaring Cups. Oyster Stand. 

1 Size. 2 Sizes. 1 Size. 



Muffin Pans. 4 Sizes. 



Flat Handle Skimmers. Children’s Mugs. Oval Bake Pans 
6 Sizes. 2 Sizes. 5 Sizes. 



Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 61 


MISCELLANEOUS. 

MILDEW. 

Dip the stained cloth in buttermilk, and lay in the sun. 

IRON RUST. 

This may he removed by salt mixed with a little lemon 
juice; put in the sun; if necessary use two applications. 

TO CLEAN TINWARE. 

The best thing for cleaning tinware is common soda; damp- 
en a cloth, dip it in soda, rub the ware briskly, after which, 
wipe dry. 

TO CLEAN CUT-GLASS. 

Having washed cut-glass articles, let them dry, and after- 
wards rub them with prepared chalk and a soft brush, careful- 
ly going into all the cavities. 

TO RAISE THE PILE OF YELYET. 

Cover-a hot smoothing-iron w ith a wet cloth, hold the velvet 
firmly over it; the vapor rising will raise the pile of the velvet 
with the assistance of a light whisk. 

TO CLEAN MARBLE. 

Take two parts of common soda, one part of pumice stone, 
and one part of finely-powdered chalk ; sift it through a fine 
sieve, and mix it with water; then rub it well all over the mar- 
ble, and the stains will be removed; rub the marble over with 
salt and water. 

INDELIBLE INK. 

To one tablespoonful of rain water, one-half teaspoon of 
vinegar, and a piece of lunar caustic, three inches long; shake 
well together; put on to your cloth a little milk and soda (to 
a tablespoon of milk, a piece of baking soda as large as a grain 
of corn) ; iron smooth, and write immediately. 


SB 


3 



* 


62 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book . 


THE HOUSEWIFE’S TABLE. 


i 


The following is a very valuable housewife’s table, by which 
persons not having scales and weights at hand may readily 
measure the article wanted to form any recipe without the 
trouble of weighing, allowance to be made for an extraordi- 
nary dryness or moisture of the articles weighed or measured : 

Wheat flour, 1 pound is 1 quart ; Indian Meal, 1 pound 2 
ounces are 1 quart ; Butter, when soft, 1 pound is 1 quart ; 
Loaf Sugar, broken, 1 pound is 1 quart; White Sugar, pow- 
dered, 1 pound 1 ounce are 1 quart; best Brown Sugar, 1 pound 
2 ounces are 1 quart; 10 Eggs are 1 pound; 16 large tablespoon- 
fuls are y 2 pint; 8 large tablespoonfuls are 1 gill; 4 large tea- j 
spoonfuls are y 2 gill; 2 gills are l / 2 pint; 2 pints are 1 quart; 

4 quarts are 1 gallon; a common sized tumbler holds y 2 pint; a 
common sized wine glass holds y 2 gill ; a teacup holds 1 gill ; 
a large wine glass holds 1 gill ; a large tablespoonful is y 2 
ounce; forty drops are equal to 1 teaspoonful; 4 teaspoonfuls 
are equal to 1 tablespoonful. 

Crusts and pieces of bread should be kept in a Granite 
bucket, closely covered, in a dry, cool place. 

Keep fresh lard in Granite vessels. 

Keep yeast in wood or Granite Iron Ware 

Keep preserves and jellies in glass. 

Keep salt in a dry place. 

Keep meal and flour in a cool, dry place. 

Keep vinegar in wood, glass, or Granite Iron Ware. 

Sugar is an admirable ingredient in curing meat or fish. 

Lard for pastry should be used hard, as it can be cut with a 
knife. It should be cut through the flour, not rubbed. 





*■ 


Granite Iron Ware Cook Book. 


■* 


63 


THE HOUSEWIFE’S TABLE - continued. 

PREPARING FRUITS FOR PRESERVING. 


Boil Cherries moderately 5 minutes. 

“ Raspberries “ 6 

“ Blackberries “ . 6 “ 

“ Plums “ 10 44 

“ Strawberries 44 8 “ 

“ Whortleberries “ 5 ‘ 4 

“ Pie Plant, sliced 10 “ 

44 Small Sour Pears, whole 30 “ 

“ Bartlett Pears, in halves 20 44 

44 Peaches, “ 8 44 

44 Peaches, whole 15 4 ‘ 

44 Pine Apples, sliced 15 44 

. “ Siberian or Crab Apples, whole 25 44 

44 Sour Apples, quartered 10 44 

“ Ripe Currants 6 44 

“ Wild Grapes 10 

“ Tomatoes 20 44 

The amount of Sugar to a quart jar should be— 

For Cherries 6 ounces. 

“ Raspberries 4 “ 

“ Lawton Blackberries 6 “ 

“ Field 4k 6 “ 

“ Strawberries 8 “ 

“ Whortleberries 4 “ 

“ Quinces 10 “ 

“ Small Sour Pears, whole 8 41 

44 Wild Grapes. 8 “ 

44 Peaches 4 

41 Bartlett Pears 6 “ 

“ Pine Apples 6 “ 

“ Siberian or Crab Apples 8 “ 

“ Pie Plant • 10 44 

“ Plums 8 44 

“ Sour Apples, quartered 6 44 

44 Ripe Currants 8 “ 


*■ 


« 



GRANITE IRON TOILET ARTICLES 




V 

J 

i 



«ar This Trade Mark on every plec .. 


BROILING, BAKING 
BOILING, PRESERVING 


FOR 

IO i IGHT, HANDSOME, 
10 WHOLESOME, DURABLE- 


The B EST Ware INa for the r'chen, 

GEORGE RENT, 

House Furni&liing Goods, &e. 

31 EABEISOTCIT FT , HALIFAX ... S. 


